• ' the a vir- weight Peter Rur- Corn- their by Ron Then Dick e score b.ts put to Al Bas- senior 10·1 than ady for The St. be no Ron pinning Gym and Founders Day Page 3 • Kennedy At S'kidmore Page 5 Founded at Union College 1877 Vol. 96- No. 19 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK., THURSDAY, MARCH 2, l967 PRICE 1 5 CENTS International Graduate Prograffl Contntences; Indian Students Here By RICHARD PATTERS@N, JR. The Union College International Graduate Program is now under way, operating successfully, and looking to a bl.'igb.t and growing future, ac' cordipg to Theodore D. Lockwood, Dean of Faculty. Two Indian students; Mr. Surrendra M. Bhagi and Mr, Veliath M. Menon, are now doing graduate work in the Science and Engineering Center. They are on £ull graduate fellowships from the coHege. In late August or early September,. the two Indian students, along with three of Union's American students from the center, will go to India for what James Palmer, Dean of the Sdenee and Engineering Cen· ter, described as \a year of research and .practical investigation.\ During a year in India, the five students will complete projects dealing with prob- lems in their areas of study. The completed projects will serve as par· tial fulfillment of the requirements for a masters degree. Happy Accident The program began, according to Dean Lockwood, as the result of a \happy accident\ and a number of favorable circumstances. The idea for such a program was developed in March, 1966. At that time, there were two Indian students studying at Union in the field of Industrial Administration. There were also some Indian engineers working for ALC() and General Electric then. The Dean described these as \natural ties,. which contributed to an exchange with India rather than another coun- try. He described as a \happy accident\ the PI'esence in India at the time of Prof. Henry Ferguson, who was on sabbatlcal. Prof. Ferguson's pres- ence in India insured the college of a representative there who could es- tablish and carry on the program. Also at this same time, Mr. M. M. Suri, h.ead of the Central Scientific Institute of Research in India, was in Schenectady on business for his government. Red Tape Sllri was enthusiastic about begin· ning such a program as this, and was later able to cut through much red tape in the Indian government to al- low th..e exchange to begin at least a year earlier than first expected. Deans Lockwood and Palmer both cited Suri as primarily responsible for much of the program's initial suc- cess. Last summer, Union agreed to ac- cept the two Indian students on grad- uate fellowships for study at the col- lege during the academic year. In the fall, they will be teamed with UnioN'~ Carl Reeder, Larry McCray, and Lm Madden. The five will go to India to work on a number of specific projects which will later be- come the basis of their masters thesis. Dean Lockwood said that the col- lege is convinced that the program is valuable for a number of important reasons. \A great problem of For- eign students coming to study in the Continued on Page 3 UIC Receives Report Envisioning Women's Campus Guest House By LANCE SPALLHOLZ Monday evening the Union College Inter-Residence Council had the bus- iest night of its short history. With nearly full attendance, the council acted upon a variety of new resolu- tions. The most important action was the submission of a committee report sub- mitted by Neil S. Kramer, '70, asking the College administration to open North Cdlege for a women's guest house. Key points of the proposal were: Housing \In order to extend to all members of the college community inexpensive housing for dates, and to make this service available from week to week, the U.I.C. proposes that the North College facility be used as a guest house so long as it is available, and that the U.I.C. be the primary re- sponsible for this service. The proposed expense to each stud- ent would probably not exceed $3.00 per weekend, be it either for one or two nights. Non-affiliated men are to have pre- ference over others with respect to the use of this facility. \Use of this facility would have to be arranged by th~ Wednesday be- fore the weekend in question by each individual. In order to administer this pro- gram, the committee, cognizant of the administration's social regulations, added to its proposal a list of what it felt to be equitable social rules for Continued on Page 3 ACC Ends Controversy; Future Mee ings Open By RICHARD BALAGUR After months of controversy tb.e All-College Council has voted unani· mously to open its future meetings to tb.e college ·community and to hold them in Hale House Student Lounge. Council Chairman Ben Volinski said that the meetings would be run along lines similiar to student coun· cil meetings, with the floor open to anyone who is recognized by the chairman. The ACC also initiated a review of the residential policy of the college. A sub-committee consisting of Ben Volinski, Mike Michalski and Ed Downey was set up to find a means of determining a true cross section of campus opinion on this policy. Reviews Policy Volinski stated that a review of the residential policy is a practical mat· tet at this time if the freshman class continues to increase as it has in the past. He said Dean Lockwood had met with the Executive Council of the Board of Tmstees and that they were receptive to suggestions and were waiting for an ACC recommendation. At the meeting Deans Pollock and Lockwood su.mmed up the trustees' feelings on why Union is a residential college. Volinski's view was, \I myself am against a forced residential policy as not being the most natural mode of life in the world.\ Origin The All-College Council was finally approved March 8, 1966 by an almost unanimous vote of the student body after .considerable debate among stu- dents, faculty and administration. After being approved by the IFC, the student council and the faculty coun- cil the vote was almost anticlimatical. The first action of the interim Council, established under the leader- ship of student body President Jeff Ratner, was the approval, after slight modification, of the new social rules. MADRIGALS The Vassar College Madrigal Sing- ers and the Union College Chamber Singers will join in a quatricentennial salute to Claudio Monteverdi in a concert in :Memorial Chapel Friday evening at 8:30 P.M. Featured in the program will be works by the Italian composer, who was born in 1567 and died in 1643. The Monteverdi program is the sec- ond joint effort of the Union and Vassar groups, who first joined forces last year for a successful program of ancient and modern works. presented in Schenectady and in Poughkeepsie. The Vassar group is directed by Albert van Ackere, the Union singers by Hugh Allen Wilson. Convocation credit will be given. I e All-College Council before they voted to open future meetings tC) the public. Seated left to right, Ed Downey, Prof. Tolan, Ed Volinski, chairmen, .Prof. Goble and Robert Benjamin. Standing, left to ~ight, Hunter Louis, Dea11 Lockwood, Prof. Lowen, Frank McKim, and Dean Pollock. Missing is Mike Michalski. The ACC finally solidified its mem· bership with the election of Ed Downey as member-at-large to fill the place left by Volinski when he was elected Student Council President. Subsequent meetings of the All-Col- lege Council were held over dinner and \almost of necessity closed.\ Re• quests to allow reporters or a report· er admittance were denied by the Council. Votes were announced by Volinski following meetings, although most matters were simply discussed rather than voted upon. 18-9; Mattnen Succu~nb, Finish Season At 8-1 Yesterday Colgate University foiled Union's bid for an unde- feated season by defeating the Garnet matmen, 18-9. The standing- room-only crowd enjoyed a tight, hard-fought match in which there were no runaway matches. Two hightlghts of the meet were the vjctorieg by Tom Tripp and AI Baskous, who maintained their un- beaten individual records. Pre.viously Unbeot.en The first match was at 123 between previously unbeaten Frank D' Antuono and Colgate captain ~ich Haney. Haney scored on a single leg take· down in the first period, and an es- cape to give him three points to D'An· tuono 's one, to win the match 3-1. D'Antuono finished the season with a credible 8·1 record. The 160 pounded for Colgate was Mike Shapiro, older brother of theil.\ 145 pounder. Brian Crandall wres- tled for Union, but not well enoti.gb. to beat Shapiro, who scored two take- downs and win by a 6-2 score. Barry Cornwall dropped ten pounds and wrestled at 167. His opponent was Len Berkey, a leg wrestler. In an ex- citing match which kept the Garnet in contention, Cornell reversed Ber- key with 30 seconds to win by a ~-5 margin, and make the score 15·6. Suc!den Silence Jonas Awarded Professorship At 130, Ron Iannotti met Bob Raiber, whom he. had beaten in his freshman year. But this time, Raiber showed a mastery of leg maneuvers which he had 1not previously shown. The result was' a 6-4 victory in favor of Raiber, and the match score was raised to 6-0. With _only two matches to go, tlae G,arnet backs to the wall, needing two pms to take the match and remain undefeated. Ken Merz wreStled at 177, and his match was one of the highest scoring, standing out in a con- test that was decidedly dominated by defense. Merz was defeated by a 8-5 score, moving the team score to 18-6, and spelling defeat for the over· matched Garnet. Manfred Jonas has been promoted to a full professorship in the history department at Union College, Dean Theodore Lockwood announced last 11 week Jonas, who will assume his new rank in September, joined the faculty ~ as assistant professor of history in 1963, and -was made associate pro, fessor the following year. In 1965 be was appointed director of the gradu• ate program in American Studies. He e also directed the NDEA Institute for the Advanced Study of History at Union last summer, and will conduct a similar institute here this year. Taught in Berlin Jonas graduated from City. College of New York in 1949 with a bachelor of science degree in social science and received his master of arts de· ·t· gree in history from Ifarvard the following year. He earned a doctor• ate in history at Harvard in 1959. From 1959 to 1962 he taught at the ~ Free University of Berlin in what Assoc. Prof. Manfred Jonas, who will be promoted to full professor has since become the John F. K.en· nedy Institute, and in 1962•()3 he was an associate professor of history at Pennsylvania Military College. Pro- fessor Jonas is a specialist in 20th century American history, and has been particularly concerned with diplomatic history and the isolationist movement in America. In October of last year, his book, \Isolationism in America, 1935-41\ was published by Cornell University Press. Tbis Spring, Thomas Y. Cro· well Co. V!ill release his new book, \American Foreign Relations irt the 20th Century.\ He has also publish· ed numerous articles and reviews in a wide variety of professional jour· nals, both here and ih German:y. Educational Consultant Jorias is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Phi Alpha Theta, the Organi- zation of .American Historians, the American H:istorical Association, The German Association for American Studies and the American Associa· tion of University Professors. He is presently active as a consultant to the U;S. Office of Association for American Studies. and as a consul· tant for \CHOICE: Books for Col· lege Libr~ries,\ and has served Ed· ucation. He is also a member of the Board of Freedom Forum, Inc. The score rose to 9-0 when Col- gate's Bill Hopkins defeated Jeff Kur- zious 4·1 in a close match. Hopkins scored on a head and ankle take- down and an escape against Kurzius' takedown to win 4-1. Point of No Return At the Point of no return, Union fought back\into contention in one of of t)le most exciting matches of the day as Tom Tripp put his 8·0 record on the line against Colgate's Mark Shapiro. Tripp opened with a take- down, but Shapiro escaped to make it 2-1. The score changed hands twice and with 10 seconds remaining, Sha- piro led 5-4. Then, in a tremendous show of poise and agility, Tripp re- versed his opponent and held him with a figure four to win the thriller 6·5 and climax an undefeated season. At 152, Everett Yelton drew the odious task of facing Colgate's stand- out Gary Carpenter. .Yelton fought valiantly but could not withstand the complete leg holds of Carpenter and lost 6·0 to make the match score 12·3. The heavyweight match rated a tossup, was between Union's unde· feated Al Baskous and Colgate•s un· beaten Gene Detweiler, who had just beaten last year's ECAC champion at Syracuse. When the wrestlers appear- ed, there was a sudden silence in the crowd. In the first period, Baskous scored on a quick barrel roll to give him a 2-0 lead. Then Baskous escaped in the second period to give him a 3-9 lead, but Detweiller was not disc()ur· aged. He did not lose his composure and took down Baskous with a double leg takedown to make the score 3~2: Detweiller stayed on top and gaihed riding time and rode Baskous with a strong tight waist ride. Finally, -with only 30 seconds left, Baskous, using Continued on :rage 8

2 Thursday, March 2, 1967 Thursday, M Saint Rose To ~Present Eric Anderson Baths Closed In Davidson Reading Week Is Dead Eric Anderson, well-known folksinger will appear in con- cert at Gibbons Hall at Siena College at 8:00 P.M. on March 11. The concert is sponsored by the St. Rose Student Sen- ate, Andersen's popularity has skyrocketed in the last two years. He has been well re- ceived in concert halls and cof- fee houses all over the coun- try. His two albums, \Today is the Highway\ an d \Bout Changes and Things\ are among the best sellers .of the folk var- iety. Eric has recently started play- ing with the additional accom- paniment of piano, drums, and bass. This has only added to his previous musical style and does not represent a basic change. His songs have exhibited sharp satire as well as sensitive ly- rical images. Andersen's songs have been widely rccordcll among other artists, including Judy Collins, The Blues Project, The Chad Mitchell Trio and Jim and Jean. He attended Hobart College for a while and then decided that college wasn't for him so he headed out for the West Coast where he launched his career. The New Yotk World Tele- gram wrote of Eric Anderson: \He is a young singer-composer with a voice to savor. He sings all his own tunes, and they are, without exception, excellent. The melodies are simple yet dif- ferent, the lyrics unpretentious. Whether he does a protest song\; love ballad, or a children's song about a bumblebee, Andersen demonstrates talent as a writer and skill as a performer.\ Tickets for the concert may be purchased in advance at the Van Curler Music Store in Al- bany and the St. Rose Book Store, and may be obtained at the door the night of the per- formance. Reserved seats $3.00, general admission $2.00. Montebanks Bob Dickson, Technical Di- rector for the Mountebanks and Nott Memorial Theatre, is look- ing for students interested in working on stage crews. Any- one available during Interses- sion and able to work at the Theatre, and any students who would like to join one of the crews which will start work at the beginning of next term is urged to call Bob at Phi Sigma Kappa. Work is starting for MOTHER COURAGE AND HER CHILDREN, which will be pre- sented in May. Now is an ideal time for anyone to join one of the stage crews. The PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP 262 Saratoga Road • MAYFAIR SHOPPING CENTER At the Sign of the Reel Neon Pipe TUES. thru SA T.7 to 9 P.M. THURS. and FRI.: 7 to 9 PM SCOTIA, N.Y. Phone 399-1630 FUN 'ROIJND THE Round Hearth STOWE'S GREAT SKI DORM $7.75 per day (with breakfast an<l (Honer) $49.00 perweek Special Ski Weeks 5 day pla11- $70 7 day plall-$94 Plans begin on Sunday nights and include lodging-lifts-lessons. Starting dates: Jan. 1, 8, 15, 22, 29; Feb. 5, 12, 26; Mar. 5, 12, 26; April 2, 9. Write for folder or phone· Stowe, Vt. 802·2 53-7223 ********* Eric Afldersen, folksinger, will appeor at Sie11a on March 11. W+l EN I WAS STI L.L IN COLLEGE I HEARD THAT WHEN YOU WENT TO WORK Hi A LARGE CORPORATION •.• \ AND T-HOUGHT ABOUT W-HAT YOU WOULD DO IFONLYTHEY ASKEOYOU TO DO SOMETHl NG .. \ In Davidson Hall, the first of the two new multi,million dol· lar dormitories built by the col- lege, all of the men's rooms of the North section were out of order the greater part of the past week. At three in the morning of February Hl a student walked into the men's room of the first floor and slipped on the half· inch of \water\ covering the floor. Backing U.p This room was closed and locked. The second and third floor facilities were used ,antil the carpet in front of the first floor men's room became soak- ed. Upon ~;eopening the first Hoor men's room it became immedi- ately obvious that whenevEr the toilets ol the second or third floors were flushed, the first floor toilets reacted by backing U:p. All the bathrooms on the North side were closed up. :Res· idents were forced to go to the South section of Davidson, .some three flights of stairs away. Beer Bottle Upon examination of the sys- tem by Mr. Welch, a college maintenance man in charge of the new buildings, a beer bottle and stick were discovered to be blocking normal passage of the waste. These objects were re- moved and operation has return- ed to normal. The rug on the first floor had to be ripped out. Welch said, \The bottle and the stick were obviously tbere since the early construction of the building.\ It appears that the coveted, often wasted break between classes and exams known as \reading week\ is gene from Union forever. The principal cause for the disappearance of a reading week from the academic calendar is the tight schedule of the new ten-week, three course-three term system. Impossible Theadore Lockwood, Dean of the Faculty, explained that t h e new academic system made it \impossible to work (reading week) inta the calen- dar.\ He pointed out that it might have been possible to have had a reading week at the end of the fall term, but he said \if you added a reading week to the end of the winter 'For three Generations.;' Those Who Know. Have been recommending HERSHEL and spring terms, it would push graduation back at least two weeks; to the end of June.\ This, he said, would be a defin- ite inconvenience to senors, The Dean further stated that he \has never known of a col- lege having both the 3-3 aca- demic calendar and a reading week. \The calendar just doesn't permit it,\ he stressed. Another factor in the decision .. to drop the reading week from the calendar was the decision by the administration that the reduced subject load and the shorter term made a reading week unnecessary. It was as- sumed that students would not get so far behind in their studies under the new system, and thus they would not need a reading week. ,.. MAURiCE B. WALTER 'Con 1 At Founders Hugh Allen Pres. Hard- Union Foun' By ROI Dr. Haria tlauriue B. Graubart & Sons 0 ' ( the Univer! 4\3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'\ 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AN'D GOOD JEWElRY ( : • • Thursday, higher edu growth in t Speaking monies, H~ system was develop so ( high degre ing requin plines requ \The la1 TI-lEY PUT VOU JN -A TRAINING- PROGRAM AND ALL YOU DIV WA9 PAPER WORK ANOWENTTO SOME L.ECfURE9 AND WATCHED OTHER PEOPLE WORK. ~j tates,\ Hate cation brea tern.\ He c of four yea by four ye: doctoral st not meet tl dents. • t \Pro gran the needs ther tailon dividuals. \ THAT WACJ LAST JUN6- \ \ BEFORE I WENT TO WORK ATGT&-E :f. :: : . -= -~ -.._,-· i ·I ~ Uil Conj North Coil \ • ' deuce. Tb i \1. No we the first •I ~ \2. No m4 ! · the first \3. A IDE stay in t tion of r the doors hostess t ad!tftnist \4 .. ilie ~ before 4 day nor - 1 followin! Adn: The cou plan into ~ ( The pro:po: response whom Mr basically < 1 . , ures in or The U.I. tion whid to re-evall social pd • q. modificatic by the U. examine tl pose a ch ; ' for the stt Finally, some me1 recommen, • • , action witl priveleges, without r4 secutive rr • ~ heated del for action. Sll GENERAL TELEPHONE &ELECTRONICS IS DIFFERENt// . RALTELEPHONE & E. LECTgO~N&IECS GOT ANY IDEAS WE CAN USE?// GENE ~ / ;' ' 730 THIRD AVENUE, NE\V YORK, NEW YORK 10017 I l

1967 Thursday, March 2 1 1967 push two June.\ a defin- Founders' Day Speaker Condetnns Study Syste~n that f a col- aca- reading just .. from hat the the reading was as- uld not nd thus reading RY 1 At Founders' Day ceremonies, far left, Hugh Allen Wilson, Carl Niemeyer, Pres. Hatcher and .Pres. Martin, ·at \ . 1 Union Founders' Day. By ROBERT A. STOLZBERG Dr. Harlan H. Hat<:heJ?, Presiqent of o · c the University o~ lV.bchigan, said last Thursday, \T~e tr1;1ditional ~old _of higher educatwn 1s ha~permg Its growth in the modern society.\ .. • Speaking at Founders Day cere- monies Hatcher said \The present system' was not planned and did not develop so as to bring a st_udent. to a 1 high degree of sc_hola~ship. D1~e';'· in~ requir~ments m dlfferen~, diSCI· plines requrre different forms. \The lack of flexibility necessi- ., tates,\ Hatcher said, \that U. S. edu- cation break out of the present sys- tem\ He cited the standard program of four years of high school, followed by four years of college, followed by doctoral study. This program does not meet the needs of individual stu- dents. \ t \Procrrams should be tailored to the ne~ds of the discipline and f':lr- ther tailored to the needs of the m- dividuals. \There are too many ar- UIC. • • Continued from Page 1 North College when girls are in resi- \ • ' dence. They were: \1. No women should be housed on the first floor. •I ~ \2. No men wou!d be allowed above I . the first floor. \3. A member of the U.I.C. will stay in the first floor of each ~ec­ tion of North College used, closmg the doors at 3:30 A.M.\ ... a social hostess may be a stipulation of the administration) . '/ \4 .. flie guest house will ~ot ope!! before 4:30 P.M. on any given Fn- day nor close after 1:30 P.M. the following Sunday.\ Administration Favorable The council is anxious to get this plan into action in the spring term. t The proposed plan receive~ ~avon;ble response from the admmistrabon, whom Mr. Kramer noted requir~d basically only specific financial fig- ures in order to grant approval. The U.I.C. passed a for~a! res~Iu­ tion which urges the admmistratmh to re-evaluate the present system of social privileges and consider any 1 modification which may be prese!lted by the U.I.C. and that a committee examine the present system anq pro- pose a change that seems eqmtable t for the students. Finally, a resolution propose? by some members of the COUllCil to recommend to the Judicial Board for action with the possible loss of social ' · ' priveleges those sections which were without r~presentation for two con- secutive meetings. After lengthy and heated debate the motion was tabled ~ for action. bitrary rules and hurdles.\ Hatcher also pointed to the desire for prestige and status accruing from attendance at old and established un- iversities. This often supercedes the actual educational values avaHable at lesser known schools. \At present,\ he continued, \the effort toward reform is at a higher level than it has been for several years. There is greater prominence and responsibHity in graduate schools today because of the magnitude. This has opened up new areas of study for the university.\ Challenges He pointed to several methods by which higher education can meet these challenges; One is through \groupings\ of schools in one area, such as those here in Schenectady and those in Troy. Another possibiLity would be to incorporate an extra year of graduate stLt<ly at about age 35, when the student would have more experience with which to interpret his studies.\ Kenneth T. Doran, associate execu- tive dean for two-year colleges of the State University of New York, also spoke. He is a biographer of Henry P. Tappan, first president of Michi- gan, in whose honor the Founders Day ceremonies were held. Tappan was a Union graduate in the class of 1825. Phi Sigma Delta Kitchen Reopens Dining facilities at Phi Sigma Delta fraternity have recently opened after being closed down for two weeks. The fraternity lost the use of its kitchen after a warning notice was served by the Schenectady Health De- partment inspector. Dean Pollock stated that the health inspectors first issues a warning to an establishment and then, if conditions are not im- proved, will order the establishment to cease operations. He also said that the college will see that ldtchen facil~ ities on campus close down to im· prove their operation whenever they receive a warning. He noted that this action by the college insures that the Health Department itself does not close the kitchen, thus adding a per· manent market against the organiza- tion's kitchen. Reluctant Members of Phl Sigma Delta were reluctant to disclose the precise cause of the warning. Newly elected presi· dent Alan Axlerod mentioned that staff problems, involving th~ hiring of a new cook, and renovation ope;ra, tions in the kitchen were related to the matter. Another member of the fraternity told a Concordy reporter on the phone that there \w;~r~ staff problems\ and a problem of misfeas- ance\ involved. No fraternity members contacted weve willing to disclose why the oper· ations were shut down, and wh!lre the brothers took their meals durmg the period. However, one of the brothers stated that \The kitchen was completely ren- ovated, and a new, more efficient cook was hired. The food under the new cook has been very good and the kitchen has been managed very well.\ 0/ficer.J Gfct~J /Jlf ..AmofJ Ail· Socielg, This week, the Arnold Air Societ~, a group of Air Science cadets dedi- cated to community service, electe.d new officers. In the past, the air society has supported the annual blood drive contributed the ride board to the b'ook store, and is currently help- ing the V.I.T.A. program. The n~w officers are: Commander, C~det M.aJor William Warcholik, Executive off1c~r, Cadet Captain Charles Evans, Adlllln- istration officer, Willian;t Gray, Op- erations officer, Cadet. F.rrst ~t. Rob- ert Lapidus, ll;nd Spec1a~ J?ro~ects. of- ficer Cadet Fust Lt. Wllllam Brmk- man. Ten Percent of C,ampus Signs Viet Petition Roughly 10'/1 of the· student body has signed the petition .being circu- lated by the ·~ad hoc\ committee to end the bombing of North Vietnam. As of Wednesday night the com- mittee organizers have received a to- tal of 127 student signatures and 18 faculty petition signatures on the pe- titions. One of the organizers stated t·hat a fairly large number of the stu- dent .petitions are still being circu- lated, especially in the fraternities. Very few of the faculty members have been approached so far, he added, but most will be asked to sign within the week. Students living off- campus or those who have not seen a committee representative are urged to sign the petition in the Student Activities office. The petition being circulated reads; Dear Mr. President: We the undersigned favor an im- mediate, extended cessation of the bombing of North Vietnam as an es- sential prerequisite to peace in Viet- nam. At a meeting held on Wednesday th.e committee made plans to organize a protest with other colleges. Ticket refunds for the Winter Weekend concert will be disbursed until Friday, March 3 at 3 p.m. No more refunds win be made after this time. Indian Students ••• Continued from Page 1 United States is that they want to stay here. They become educated at a level too sophisticated for the prob- lems of their country. Often, the level of education do.esn't correspond to tile level of the problems their coun- try faces. Our approach insures that the education they receive will be related to a definite project in their countl;'y,\ he said. The Dean also pointed out that this program also offers the American student an opportunity to apply his education to the problems of the un· derdeveloped nations. future Expansion It appears that this program will be continued and possibly expanded in tha future. \We are sufficiently con- viitced: of the worth of this program so that we will seek foundation sup- .port for continuing it,\ said Dean Pal· mer. Dean Lockwood pointed to the need for outside funds if the pro- gram is to be carried on in the fu- ture. This year an anonymous donor is supporting the program. Dean Lockwood added that the col- lege would like to extend this type of program to Southeast Asia and South America. \Another indirect advan- tage of the program is that it adds a new dimension to our Non-Western studies.\ \We think the program. will add up to a worthwhile educatiOnal experience for the students,\ he con- cluded. Room Charges Dl).vid Laird, Director of Student Housing, announced that those st~~ dents who moved into Davidson Hall from North College after February 10 will not be billed more than the amount they were paying for a full term in North Colege. Those students who moved in ear- lier were billed ·on a pro-rated basis for the time they occupied Davidson Hall. Starting the third ter~ all st}l- dents living in the new dormitory will be billed at the regular rate. Students who lived in North Col· lege beyond the fourth week of the winter term were not billed the Dav- idson rates because of inconveniences ra~sed by the delay in occupying Da- 'd v1 son. 3 IRC To Host Irishntan, N. Y. Israeli Diplontat An Irish Senator and Israeli Con· sul will seek to enlighten the Union· Skidmore International Relations Club during the next week. Mr. Michael Yeats, a member of the Irish Parlia· ment. will speak on \Modern Ireland\ 'Friday, March 3, in Hale House at 4:30 p.m. The following Monday, in the same setting, Mr. Yosef Yaakov, Consul of the state of Israel in New York, will speak on \Israel and the AFab World.\ Yaakov was born in 1923 in Shang- hai, China, where, after attending a British school, he was connected with an American and French radio sta- tion in the Far East, and then served as United Press Correspondent dur· ing the Chinese Civil War, in Nan- king and Manchuria. Immigrated to Israel He immigrated to Israel during its W:ar of Independence and, except for two years, during which he was with the Israel Defense Forces, he has served in various capacities in the Prime Minister's Office and the For- eign Ministry of Israel, including a .tour of duty as Deputy Director of Ne\Ws for the Israel National Radio Network. He received a UNESCO Fel- Iow·sh.ip in 1958. Consul Yaakov has been with the Consulate General of Israel in New York since 1962, in information and cultural affairs, and is Director of the Fillll, Television and Radio Division of the Israel Information Services in the United States. Son of Poet Yeats, sone of the Irish poet Wil- liam Butler Yeats, is now serving an elected term in the Seanad Eireann, or senate, of the Republic of Ireland. He previously served a term in the senate as one of the 11 senators nom- inated by the prime minister. A honors graduate in history of D11blin's Trinity College, Sen. Yeats also writes musical criticism for a Dublin newspaper. Notices Seniors The Garnet staff will collect the .$1.()0 fee for embossing of names on the cover of the 1967 Garnet at Spring registration. Also, anyone who has additions or corrections to the data sheet (filled out at the time senior pictu.res were taken) can make them at registration. Freshman A brief required freshman meeting with Mr. Schmidt, Registrar, will be held in Memorial Chapel at 11:30 A.l\1.1. on Tuesday, March 7th. Infor- mation about assignment to sopho· more advisers and 1967-68 course pro· registration will l:)e given at the meet- ing. STORY, a national literary maga\ zine, has announced its College Cre- ative Awards for the school year 1966-67. The contest, open to any registered student of a C.£!llege in the nation, has competition in ten cate- gories of creative writing. Awards range from fifty to five hundred dol- lars, in categories from photography and cartooning to poetry and play- writing. For further information, send to, The Director, STORY CREA- TIVE AWARDS, 53 W. 43 St., New York, New York, 10036. YOSEF YAAKOV, IRC Speaker, March 6 While he is in the area 'he will be house guest of Prof. and Mrs. William M. Murphy. Drfl Murphy, p~ofessor of English at 1Jnion, stayed w~th Sen. Yeats in Dublm last year while con- ductinc research. Mr. Yeats is co- sponsored by the IRC and the Lestor Fund. Fund IJ~ri•.:: Some 120 Union College. al~rti who serve as volunteer fund raisers started the College's 55th Annual Fund drive rolling toward a goal. of $200,000 during a two-day meetmg here last weekend. A Friday night banquet for the Class Agents and their wives in Hale House was the first scheduled event of the weekend. Featured speaker for the dinner was President Ha.t:old C. Martin, who discussed .t~e relatl.on- ship between the $30 million capital campaign and the Annual Fund. Changing Face On Saturday, the alumni were given a close look at the changing face of the campus in panel discussions with Admissions Director Jonathan Pear- son, Dean of Students 0. Edward Pol- lock and several students. Later in the day, a detailed explan- ation of the 55th annual drice was given to the alumni by John Hallen- beck, Time, Inc. vice president and national chairman for the drive, and Richard Adams, Union's annual fund director. Hallenbeck told the volunteers that over tne past five y.ears the annual fund has shown a 59 percent increase in participation and an 87 percent in- crease in dollars raised. Hallenbeck attributed these increases to the work of Union's nearly 800 volunteers, and added that the College is now ap- proaching the 50 percent level of alumni giving that only few colleges in the natioii have reached. Sprilig Registration Spring term classes will begin at 8::30 a.m. on Monday, March 27th. Stu- dent schedules will be distributed to college addresses prior to the begin- ning of classes. Students who do not receive a copy of their class schedule will be able to secure a copy at the Field House beeginning at 8:00 a.m. on the first day of classes. Students who have schedule prob- leDls will have a notation attached to their class schedule, and they should re:port to the Registrar at the Field H<mse after seeing their adviser. Ad- jastments and changes in schedules will be made at the Field House Mon- day through Thursday, March 27-30, from 8:45 a.m. to 3:30 p .. m., exce~t for the noon hour. On Fnday, Apnl 1 changes will me made in the Ad· , ministration Building, Room 2. Fri- day is the last day for making sched- ule adjustments. Formal registration and .payment of spring term charges will take place in the Field House on Tuesday, Wed· nesday and Thursday, March 28-30, from 8:45 to 11:30 a.m. and from 1:00 to 3:30 p.m. Students should report as follows: Last Name Report A-C Tuesday morning D-G Tuesday afternoon H-K Wednesday morning L-N Wednesday afternoon 0-Sh Thursday morning Si-Z Thursday afternoon Students may report at a time other than above should classes interfere. Michael Roth's Restaurant and Lounge .Serving Union For 33 Years CHARLES FERRO Of Upper Union Street PHARMACY .. SILVER DINER of Schenectady OPTICIANS Full Course Dinners $1.75 and up 575 Nott Str~Mt 604 Union St. Schenectady; 1'-l. Y. Fine Jazz and Rock on Fri. and Sat. ERIE BOULEVARD FR 7~1283 FR 7-0510 Go-Go Nightly from 9-3 6 A.M. - 11 P.M. 346-9522 and Lenses Replaced frGJmes • Special to Union St11dents: No Cover or Minimum. 70 per cent Excellent Food and Informal Atmosphere Prescriptions Filled FOUNTAIN SERVICE off on AU Food ancl Drink * ~· . ' l

4 Thursday, March 2, 1967 N.Viet ~olllbing: Road Aw-ay Frotn Peace Credibility Gape: Rules, Rules, And More Rules, But Protest Allo-wed By ALAN ZIEGLER The Ad Hoc Vietnam Committee has called for an \Immediate extended ha!t m the bomb1ng of North Vietnam.\ The following is my argument agamst the bombing; it is my personal statement and not necessan1y the opmwn of others on th.e committee. The major question which must be answered is simp1y, \ls the bombmg worth it?\ To answer thLs mvolves an eva1uatwn of the effects of the bomb~ng, and speculat10n concernmg what would happen if the bombmg was stoppeG unconditiOn- a'lly by the Umted Mates. 1rnpllcit m any sug- gestwn to ha1t the bombmg is the des1re for a negotiated peace mstead ot a miHtary ViCtory. Purpose lf the purpose -of the bombing is to reduce in- filtratiOn trom the f\lurth to the Muth, t.hen the clear tact Is that It JUSt hasn't worked. lVlCl'lamara himself admitted recently that the raids have not had any ettect on the mrt1trat10n. From there one goes to tne proposition that the ra1ds have made it dtilicult tor the North Vietnamese, hurt their mora1e, and will eventuc ally torce them mto submission. ::iociologists and econow1sts w1ll agree that the decentrauzed, pnm1t1ve economy ot North VIet- nam has yet to be senous1y affected by the bomb- ing. Of course the bombmg makes thmgs mote ditlicult for them, but they have responded with added vigor and comm1tment, not with resigna- tion. The attempt to hurt thelr mora1s has back- tired and has, m fact, mcreased their will to nght. Tactics One must take into account the propaganda tactics of the f\lorth Vietnamese. Hanoi is teding theil' people that they are lighting in an effort to thwart American Imperialism. The sight of an Amencan plane bombing their village sub- stantiates th1s, glVmg them visible evidence of Amencan aggressiOn. Even if the peasants do not u11derstand the complex su.btletles of Geneva .Agreement and International Law, they under- stand that when one's village is bombed, one fights back. The threat to their homes has made it easier for the North Vietnamese people to be convinced to go fight in the South. The U. S. seems to feel that these people are less brave and )ess committed to their govern- ment than we would be in a similar situation, but to the contrary, interviews with Communist pris- ()!lers show an intense anti-American feeling. Call it brain~ash.\ng _or ~all it belief in an ideal, but tl1e fact IS that It's there. . \Orrlhipotence\ The U. S. must learn that other nations will not accept our self-conceived omnipotence and om- niscience; that these nations will not cringe at a flex of our muscles when we dorr't get what we want. Those in America of the Barry Goldwater, Daily News coterie, who suggest that the elixir to our problem is to 'get tougher and show them who's boss,\ display reasoning depressingly rem- iniscient of the \corner bully\ attitude. It's time tltat we eviscerate several of the precepts on which we base our policy. -CAMPUS. :c·ALENDAR - IlllH~U.\ \, :\1.\IH II '!: Fn·s·hman Basketball; Un- Ion vs. Trinity. 6:15PM .. FiPld House. Basketball: Union vs. Trinity. 8 :00 P.M., Field House. r'ltlf).\\', :\1.\R('Il 3: Seminar. \Modern Ireland,\ Mictlael Yeats. 4:30 PM .. Hale House Stud- ent Lounge. : Film Series.: \Tbe Devil's General,\ 7:00 an<l 9:.00 P.M .• S.S. ;1;3Uildlng. Room 16. Con vacation: Union College Chamber Singers and Vassar College Madrigal Singers, 8:30 P.M .. Memorial Chapel. ':tUESDAY, :ltiAHCH 7: Marine Corps Officer Pro- curement Offic.,1·, 10:00-2:00 P.M., Hale HoUbc Student Lounge. Freshman Meeting, 11 30 AM., Memorial Chapel. \VEII!':ESIH \'. :'tiAR('JI x: Science Seminar, Alan Bolton, '67. 7 .lil P.M .• Hale House :Studellt Lounge. American Chemistry Society: \Antibodies vs. Specific Chemical Reagents, by Dr. David Pressman. Roswell Park Memorial Insti- tute. 8:15 P.M .. Chern. Lab. 201. THl.HSI>A\', ~IAR('II lJ: Convocation: Claremont uartet, Museum Senes, 8:30 P.M .. Memor- ial Chapel. S.\.TURI>A\', :\IARt'H 11: Track; Union Invita- tional Meet, 12 :00. AROUND TOWN ALBA:SY Theati'Ps: Delaware-\Blow-up\ Hellman-\The Bible Story\ 1\ladison-\Doctor Zhlvago\ Palace-\The Night of the Generals\ SAHATOGA Cafe Lena-John Lawrence and Frank Wake- field of the Greenbriar Boys College Inn-Sour hour Sunday 3:00 to 6 :00 P.M. Community Theatre-\Doctor Zhivago\ D'Andrea·s-Sour hour Friday 4 :00 to 6.00 P.M. Rip Van Dam-8om· hour Friday 7 :00' to 9 :00 P.M. SCHENECTADY Theatres: Colony-\A Fistful of Dollars\ Proctors-\The Night of the Generals\ Scotia Art-\Alfle\ State-\Doctor Zhivago'' 'l'ROY Cinema Art--\I A Woman\ and \Bang. Bang. You're Dead\ Proctor's-\The Night of the Generals\ Troy-\Paris· Burning\ Studen~s protested the war in Vietnam last spring ot Union. China further into the war than they were. The War started as a Civil War in the South with the Viet Cong being fairly autonomous. The more the U. S. became involved, the more the Viet Cong had to rely on North Vietnam. At present, the extent of the bombing ·Clearly makes them a party of the conflict, no longer just a supporter, and as the U. S. causes more and more destruction on the North, the result will be increased reliance on China's support; giving her more justification to come to the aid of her ally. Thus we might see the U. S. the victim of a self-induced domino theory. Political The War was, and still is, a political war in the South. It is an illusion to think that military victory over the North will in any way lessen the desire of the Viet Cong to control their govern- ment. Bombing the North may obliterate some bridges and churches (\by mistake\) but it ean't obliterate the aura of corruption and ineptitude that has pervaded South Vietnam's U. S. sup- ported regimes of the last ten years. Most important in this discussion is the possi- bility of peace if the U. S. sto:Ps the bombing. Many authorities consider the cessation of the bombing to be a prerequisite to peace. As re- cently as last week, a spokesman for North Viet- nam reaffirmed Hanoi's offer to enter into talks w1th us if the bombing was unconditionally and permanently hatted. 1t had been specuLated that North Vietnam hardened their positlOn because of the resumption of thebon1bing. after the last truce. However, thespokesman Feiterated Hanoi's last offer, referrmg to the \Burchette Declara- tion\ as being a\verypositive\ offer to talk peace. t The Burchette Declaratl<m was remarks that North V1etnam's 1oreign minister made to an Australian reporter concernmg the possibrlities of peace if the U. S. stopped the bombmg.) Wants iPromise President Johnson wants a promise from the North VIetnamese that they witf deescalate 1f we stop the bombmg. uiPWIHacy does not consist of outrtgnt prom1ses: It Is a much more subtle art. '!'he recent statements from North VIetnam indi- cate a wmmgness to negotiate; they have com- p1etety changed the tone of their demands. We mus.t reanze tnat one thmg North Vietnam wants IS respect. They w1sh to go to the peace tables as a peer and not as a deteated party who was forced there. One wonders if the U. S. is attemp- ting to draw North Vietnam to the conference table or drag them to the surrender table. The situation in China makes the ,present an ideal time to stop ·the bombmg. For one thing, Chma's mternal problems have reduced therr inttuence on Hanoi, thus increasing Russia's in- fluence. This is to our advantage smce China is in favor of seeing the war drag on while Russia would like to see it end. We have an ideal time for the negotiation and for increasing the chances of a detente with Russia. When Hanoi was :presenting stern proposals for peace, the U. S. declared them to be unacceptable. Now that Hanoi is is softening a bit, Johnson sees it a sign of weakness and wants to hold out till they weaken more. Exactly what will satisfy him, short of military victory, Is at ·best obtuse. Truce By SCOTT SIEGLER 'ln one of the longest and most inarticulate meeungs in the lJistory -of the Union College So- Cia, Acuon Cornnuttee, several issues of para- mount mterest \iVere permanently Fesolved. Af- ter 1au~.h hectic debate, which included a Bible oemg tnrown, the tina! solution to the social rules vruou:Wl was resolved. All previous llberalizabons ,n the 'SOCia! rules have peen rescmded, with the eventual hope of creating a host of new rules. A trustee from Ne-w York City was quoted as say- mg, \The more rules w.e instaU, the greater li:keli- ho(:)d there will be a student knowing what IS requrred of b.im and what his assigned role Is on the Union CoHege campus.\ Shaken TlJis reporter, .understandab-ly shaken 'bY the -reversal H1 the trend of liberalizing social· rules at most campuses, queried one trustee as to his reactiOn to J:iave:rtord Coilege's total abolition of all social rules. Referring to a recent article in .the New York Daily News, he said, \Haverford is a typical example of what Union might have turned mto had it not been for the foresight of this board. We axe not striving for th:e same goals as Haverford College, which I might paren- tnetlcatly add is currentty being investigated by u U.t\C and supported by the ClA-that is, we do not want a student body of left wing militants, nur uo we want students taking the law into their u vvn nan as. The role of a college student is .to wt.ow· the rmes set down by those above him, anu ,~:-e111aps g1ve rules to those below him, such a,; rtlo.:ntahy retar-ded patients in Ellis Hospital.\ uowever, protest rallies have been condoned by the board, smce it is felt that student involve- ment is an integral part of the molding of a young man into a well-educated adult. The issues to be protested against will be posted every Thursday on the dormitory bulletin boards by a member of the (ltl.Stodial service. Two pr.otests per term will be required along with four convo- cations, the expected number of maintain~tnces, and a bevy of neVI attendance requirements. The first protest rally will be held one week from to- During the recent truce and subsequent halt day in protest of the fact that one cannot receive in bombing, which has been referred to as a extra portions of pickle at the Hale Hous.e. \mini-peace Secretary General of the U.N., U. The meeting was adjourned with a reciting .of Thant, publicly predicted, on the basis of what a series of quickl)' read quotations, some of which his aids caUed \firm information,\ that the ces- included, \shape up or ship out,\ \this is not sation of the bombing would lead to peace tal:ks coercion if you don't like it here you can go \within a few weeks.\ The U. S. patiently waited come place else.\ \Mine is not to reason why, a hal:f hour and resumed bombing. The credi- mine is but to d() or die\ and a cheer for William bility gap is yawning in the face of disaster. Buk.ley. Co nse rv a ti v e View: ;:it-J::.'\·~~'''\''*'''~~.-~w''\\\\''*~\~;(''~\'l\\·\'.i\\'\~'\'\'\'ii:t*'\\'\'\~\'\'·''·\~'-'~·'·'·\'···,·>N.\·-··\.,.·····.,...,· ... w.w • .., •••••. ·.w .• • .•• ~:: •• :.:.:::;: •• ~::::.:::::~::::::,::::::::::'.:::·::::,:·:·:·::·::-~··: :·:::,:·:·:·:.:·:··: • ~·~?, ...... -.,, ... , .. · · .. , ·.<·N·>· •... ,,~., ••.• ,\ •.•.• ,,,, .• ,,,.,.,. Onward Marxiatn Soldiers: State Schools Spread ~:;~l~~~t~~~~~~~E7''':\ what is beneficial to our society, but I also desire progress in our dynamic world. I shuddel' at those in our country who advocate a Great Leap forward into a Great Society. One should also remember that a conservative is no further from the middle of the political road than the liberall despite attempts to move the middle of the roaa through the liberal camp. During the coming weeks I hope I can explain my position more Ey FRANK McKIM clearly in this column. Concern Presently my major concern is in the field of education. Norm!illy I am a critic of our vast federal bureaucracy, nicely wrapped in its red tape, but in this article I direct my attentions to the government of New York State. Primarily it is the cancerous growth of the state university system which apalls me. The University has be- come one of those pet political projects that is hard to stop once its momentum is attained. I do not mean to say that the state university system is useless like a cancerous growth. Cer- tainly there is a need for such a system. I am aggravated though since the system has far over- reached its original goals. Many of the programs and aims. of the system could have been fulfilled by the splendid private educatio.nal institutions that New York . is fortunate to have. That is, these goals could have been fulfilled if the same amount of money had been available to such colleges as Union. Superior System It appears that New York wants a system su- perior to California. Indeed California has fur- nished many examples for the New York system. There is a very important difference between the two states. California had a few prominent schools for its very qualified students. Actually the Cali- fornia syste:rn was designed to fill a vacuum. The system was created in several layers. The most talented students went to the best schools in the public system. There were schools for those high school graduates that had not done so well in high school but still showed promise for the fu- ture. They m~ght even have a chance to attend the best schools if they prove themselves in the intermediate system. Then there was also a com- plex system of junior colleges arrd other schools to fill the needed gaps. Most of this education was provided at no cost. Now lets reexamine the question of New York The new academic center ot Albany State is part of the University's recent expansion. state. Here there were already several prominent private schools in the area. These schools were well equipped to handle the highest quality stu- dent. Certainly these schools had a high price tag, but the good student could find money for his needs if he was qualified. The highest echelon of education already existed in New York state. Essentially there was no vacuum in this area. There was a more limited number of colleges for those people who were not as talented. There was space for a few more colleges of this type. The real vacuum existed on the junior college level or slightly above it. For the average high school graduate, who was not admitted to New York's Unions, Cornell's, R.P.I.'s, and other schools of similar caliber, or could not obtain aid from such schools, there existed few educational opportunities. The goal of the New York program should have been to build schools for these people and offer them good solid courses that they could use. This would include a large network of junior colleges for those students wishing only one or two more ye~rs of education beyond high school. These people should have been expected to pay as much for this opportunity as they could a£. ford. When a student did not have the money, he should ha~e beep able to obtain it througp the scholar mcenhve program. Other funds should have been set aside for those qualified for the better colleges, but not wealthy enough to afford them. In this manner New York would have subsidizing some students 1 but at the same time strengthen.ing their private institutions which already had a worthy reputation. By using the scholar incentive awards in such a manner, students could have their education, but the gov- ernment would not be meddling in the affairs of the private schools. Private enterprise woti.ld be greatly strengthened, and no tremendous outlay for new plants, faculties, and campuses would be required. Presumably many of the above plans were the original intentio11s of the State UniversiH sys- tem. I doubt if the state government had ever really intended ill the beginning to take over control of some of the private liberal arts col- leges in the state, bringing an end of private en- terprise, by incorporating it with the government. But, this did happen and the situation is becom- ing worse. New York started building its junior colleges and teachEr's colleges. Then something slipped in the wheels and some genius decided that it might be nice if the New York govern- ment had a glossy university like Berkely to boas~ about. Mail>e they co~ld even oy.tQQ Call- forma. So they stal'ted to tighten the' :a~tssion requirements at S()IDe of their scho,D,lsj.'~d to make sure the~ got the best students, :th€fY offered almo~t everythmg a student could ask :forJThey prom1sed plush living quarters, well furnished labs, an excellent faculty, and of course free ed- Co:ntinued on Paf!e 5 ~.EWEST LIJ,...CH UNION BOOK COMPANY Let the lager freely flow. Down to Louis', let us go, 715 Albany Street Specializing: HOT DOGS WITH FAMOUS SAUCE - DINNERS AND SANDWICHES - TAKE-OUT ORDERS . .,.,_, ___ ·-::_: Union Students Favorite Spot - (Serving Schenectady Since 1921) Open 7 Days Per Week 6 A.M. - 4:00 A.M. 237-241 STATE STREET Boaks • • • Paperback _Classics __ ----- -· ,.: ,.~~/,. __ ~·~;:!~!W1~-,v -~~'i· ... j Party Favors • • • Art Supplies Office Supplies A unique place to dine with ()ld European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT . . Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Food Unexcellecl i'n This Area For reservations phone FR 4-8917 T\ursday M1 \t Dial< a·· Thin Samuel J< prove .h·LmseJ ~ e omy througr ot the act1 v, sug~ est -tn;u gr-t:at:, but t grOllJ!S OJ: pe ,., ·! a1 and llltel.LI tee J:louse, < Ammm Gate tor .!:Jeop,Le w ~ ·• Tne conceJ nectacty, ana 1s mcunea 1 I coftee snaps. ~. counterpC:!•ts a re1axea aJ olance ends . to :veta1n bhe shops whlcn The non-p: vened secur1 entry toyer and tasteruil IS a wng ta selves to lrB WIH De detrl every pat.ron house. '!'li.e , commodate L \·I .Another ~ house 1m~ge aeuberatew 1 tulLY p1annec last two ctay1 S:00\12:00 m Hewitt arran with a 'iimeJ for .a br~ef st: whom·· be erator o · the I ~~ I I il' ~ I The talk v 1 1 . tion pehod ' as they Wish. ~I they want t< ' certain ~fleet I , taneous\'. sin~ because .. ~lt w• i . c said th~!hth1 I . person .,..; · o . pare himself. The goal 1 thought. He• • i ., tempts ''not · the audience 1 • Ulate con ver1 i side and out 1 , quented by :P ~~'I t the Schenect; i wards a liber judging from € Any subjec a person or g it. Anyone VI phone !l'lr. f. ,.rector Dave • · programs ha bombing of J singmg, and · tracepuon, a '\I ... Union has all sentations b) partment. Ch< Professor Wi • ) .. ; I I I i t I . • \ J (members of 1 future Dialo,g Town\ in the ··Mar~i~ ucation. Witl ~l:!ard to say n Once again get what the~ take a small The fancy ca1 . \cases they c(J · tution. Aftei the state S!!h went on raid: (rlouble an.d tJ petent .men 1 thing t$the includiifg mi1 these f~uity <vate co · ege their friends (lollege was t governmel).t 1 t~nterprise. 1 project. Some priv< dents scarce, their standar '1lath seemed system. Ther ly the small maize. t Bird ( ;· () ~ > } DIA' Enjoy C Cooked ·ltc Comfortal Opp. 1 on I Open Dai .Sundays 5

4 T:hursday, March 2, 1967 N .. Viet ~otnbing: Road A vvay F rofll Peace Credibility Gape: Rules, Rules, And More Rules, But Protest Allowed By ALAN ZI·EGLER The Ad Iloc Vietnam Committee has caHed for an \1mmeti1ate extL•mled halt 111 the bombmg of North Vtctnam.\ The iollow1ng is 1ny argwuent agawst Uw bombing; 1t 1s m,y personal statt.•ment and not necessaruy tile 11PllllUil ul other::; un the com1mttee. The major question which must be answered is simpty, \l\S the b01nbmg worth tt'!\ To answer th1s m volv es an ev awat1o n ot the e £Teets of the bombmg, and spectuatJon concermng wllat would happen If the borniHng was stoppeu unconditiOn- ally by the l'mted ~tatcs. lmpuc1t tn any sug- gestJOH to batt the bomlnng 1s the desne for a negot1atecl peacl' msteau ot a miutary v1ctory. Purpose If the purpose of the bombing is to rer:lucc in- !iltratron tnun the l\ortl1 to the ~outh, tllcn the clear tact Ili t11at It Just hasn't worked. 11icN amara himseli admitted recently t11at the rards have not had any etlect on the multratwn. From there one goes to tile preposition that the ratds llavc made it dtl:licult tor the North VIetnamese, hurt their mora1c, and will eventu- ally 1orce them into subm1ss1on. Socielog1sts ami cconouusts wtll agree that the decentraazed, pnmittve economy ot North Vret- nam has yet to be senousty afl'ected by the bomb- ing. Of course the bombmg makes thmgs more diiticult ior them, but they !lave responded with added vigor and comm1trnent, not w1th resigna- tion. The attempt to hurt thc1r mora1s has back- tired and has, 1n tact, mcreased their will to nght. Tactics One must take into account the propaganda tactics of the .l\iorth Vietnamese. Hanoi IS te1Hng their people that they are lighting in an effort to thwart Amencan 1mperia11sm. The sight of an Amencan plane bombing their village sub- stantiates this, givmg them visible evidence of Amencan aggressiOn. Even if the peasants do not understand the complex subtleties of Geneva Agreement and International Law, they under- stand that when one's viHage is bombed, one fights back. The threat to their homes has made it easier for the 1\orth Vietnamese people to be convinced to go tight in the South. The U. S. seems to feel that these people are less brave and less committed to their govern- ment than we would be in a similar situation, but to the contrary, interviews with Communist pris- oners show an intense anti-American feeling. Call it brainwashing or call it belief in an ideal, but the fact is that it's there. ''Omnipotence\ The U. S. must learn that other nations will not accept our self-conceived omnipotence and om· niscience; that these nations will not cringe at a flex of our muscles when we don't get what we want. Those in America of the Barry Goldwater, Daily News coterie, who suggest that the elixir to our problem is to 'get tougher and show them who's boss,\ display reasoning depressingly rem- iniscient of the \corner bully\ attitude. It's time that we eriscerate several of the precepts on which we base our policy. Tllllt~IJ.\\. '1.\1:111 ·!: Fn·stunau Ba:>ketball; Un- lUll vs. I rtnity. G .15 P 1\.1 .• Ft£>1cl House. Basketball: Union \'S. Trinity. 8 ·oo P.M. Field House. FRill.\\\ ,1,\RI'H :~: Seminar. \Modem Ireland,\ Mlclla£'1 Yeats. 4 30 PM .. Hale House Stud- ent Lounge. Film SL'ries: \Tlle Devil's General,\ 7:00 an<.! 9:00 P.M .. S.S. :Building, Room 16. Convocation: Union College Chamber Singrrs au<.! Vassar College Madrigal Singers, 8 :30 P.M .. Memorial C'haprl. 'lTESH.\ \\' }1.\lt('ll <: Manne corps Officer Pro- curement 011tcer. 10:00-2:00 P.M .. Hale House .:;tuLicu~ Luuuge. Fre•hmua l\lu.:lllq;. 11 30 A !\f , Memorial ClHl.pPI. U:l'TI~TSil\\\ \1.\IH'II X: SriPnC'P SPminnr. Alan Bolton. 'ti7. I :In P.M .. Hall' House ::>tul.l<ent Luunge. American Chemistry Socll'ty: \Antibodlcs vs. Specific Chenucal Reagents. by Dr Dm·id Pressman. Roswell Park M~morial Insti- tute. 8'15 P.M .. Chern. Lab. 20-1. THliUW.\\'. :\1.\IH'II !l: Convocation: Claremont uartet. Museum sencs. 8 ;JO P.M .. Memor- ial Chapel. S.\ Tt: IW.\\', :\1.\lt( 'II II : Track; Union Invita- tional Meet, 12 :00. AROUND TOWN· 1 ,\LB.\~Y TIH'alrt>': Delaware-''Biow-up\ Hellman- \The Bible Story\ Madison---:-\Doctor Zhivago\ Palace-\Thc Night of the Generals\ S.\U.\1'0(;,\: Cafe Lena-John Lawrence and Frank Wake- field uf the Grl'cnbriar Boys College Inn-Sour hour Sunday 3:00 to 6:00 P.M. Community ThPntre-\Doctor Zhivago\ D'Andrea·s-Sour hour Friday 4:00 to 6:00 P.M. Rip Van Dam-Sour hour Friday 7:00. to 9:00 P.M. S<'HE=\ECr ADY Tht•atres: Colony-\A Fistful of Dollars\ Proctars-\The Night of the Generals\ Scotia Art-\Alfie\ State-\Doctor Zhivago\ TROY Cinema Art--\I A woman\ and \Bang Bang. You're Dead\ Proctor's-\The Night of the Generals\ Troy-\Paris Burning\ Studenls protested fhe war in Vietnam last spring at Union. China further into the war than they were. The War started as a Civil War in the South with the Viet Cong being fairly autonomeus. The more the U. S. became involved, the more the Viet Cong had to rely on North Vietnam. At present, the extent of the bombing clearly makes them a party of the cenflict, no longer just a supporter, and as the U. S. causes more and more destruction on the North, the result wHl be increased rel•iance on China's suppert; giving her more justification to come to the aid of her ally. Thus we might see the U. S. the victim of a self-induced domino theory. Political The War was, and still is, a political war in the South. It is an illusion to think that military victory over the North will in any way lessen the desire of the Viet Cong to control their govern- ment. Bombing the North may obliterate same bridges and churches (\by mistake\) but it can't obliterate the aura of corruption and ineptitude that has pervaded South Vietnam's U. S. sup- ported regimes of the last ten years. Most important in this discussion is the possi- bility of peace if the U. S, stops the bombing. Many authorities consider the cessation of the bombing to be a prerequisite to peace. As re- cently as last week, a spokesman fer North Viet- nam rea.fti-rmed Hanoi's offer to enter into talks w1th us if the bombing was unconditiona:J:ly and permanently ha·Ited. lt had been specUlated that North Vietnam hardened their pos1t1on because of the resumption of thebombing after the last truce. However, thespokesman reiterated Han01's last offer, relierrmg bo the \Burchette Declara· twH\ as being a\veryposittve\ offer te talk peace. (The Burchette Dec1arat10a was remarks that .l\iorth VIetnam's te:ve1gn mimster made te an Australian reperter concernmg the posstbtlitres of peace If the U. S. stepped the bombmg.) Wants Promise President Johnson wants a promise from the North VIetnainese that they whl deescalate 1.f we stop the bombmg. J.)ll•P10!1lacy dees not coB.stst of outngnt prmn.-1ses; tt 1s a much more subtle art. '!he recent statements from North Vretnam indi· cate a WIH!agness to negotiate; they have com- pletely changed the tone ot their demands. We mus.t reanze tnat one thmg North VIetnam wants 1s respect. They wtsh to ge to the peace tables as a peer and not as a d'eteated party who was forced there. One wonders if the U. S. is attemp- ting to draw North Vietnam te the conference table or drag them to the surrender table. The situation in China makes the present an idea·l time tu stop the bombmg. For one thing, Chma's mternal problems have reduced theu inttuence on Hanoi, thus increasing Russia's in· Huence. This is to our advantage smce China is in favor of seeing the war drag on while Russia would like to see it end. We have an ideal time for the negotiation and for increasing the chances of a detente with Russia. When Hanoi was presenting stern proposals for peace, the U. S. declared them to be unacceptable. Now that Hanoi is is softening a bit, Johnson sees it a sign of weakness and wants to hold out till they weaken more. Ex.actly what will satisfy him, short of military victory, is at best obtuse. Truce During the recent truce and subsequent halt in bombing, which has been referred to as a \mini-peace Secretary General of the U.N., U. Thant, publicly predicted, on the basis ef what his aids called \firm information,\ that the ces- sation of the bombing would lead to peace talks \within a few weeks.\ The U. S. patiently waited a half hour and resumed bombing. The credi· bility gap is yawning in the face of disaster. By SCOT'l' SIEGLER ln one of the lengest and most inarticulate meeungs in the histmy of the t:nion College Se- ~:1a·1 Ad1on Contmtttee, several issues of para- ll,leunt mterest wet e pennanently reselved. Af- ter Jauch 1tect1c debme, whtch included a Bible oe1ng uH·ovm, the -!mal solutton te the social ru:les !JroOiem was reselved. All previous hbera·Lizations llil the socla.J rutes have been rescmded w1th the eventual hope .af crealtng a 'host of nev/ rules. A trustee trom New York Clty was queted as say- mg, \The more rules we install, the greater likeli- hcH:Jd there wHt be a student knowmg what Is requned of him and what his assigned role IS OR the Union Co-liege campus.\ Shaken This reporter, understandably shaken by the reversat 1n the trend of llberaHzing social rN~les at mast campuses, quened one trustee as to his reactiOn to Haverterd Cel!lege's total abolition ef all sectal rules. Referrmg. to a recent article in the New York Daily News, he said, \Haverford is a typical example of what Unioa might have turned mto had it not been for the feresight of this board. We are not striving for the same goals as Haverford College, which I might paren- tneticarly add is c1:1.rrent1y being investigated by 11UAC and supperted by the ClA-that is, we do not want a student body of left wing militants, nur uo we want students taiting the law intc;> their u ,n na1H1s. The rote of a coHege student is to wLow the rUies set down by those above him, <.tJlu 1--e1haps g1ve rules to those below him, such ct3 Jilc:nta'hy retarded patients in Ellis Hospital.\ nowever, protest rallies have been condoned by the board, stnce it is felt that student involve- ment IS an integml part of the molding of a young man into a well-educated adult. The issues to be protested against will be posted every Thursday on the dnrmitory bulletin boards by a member of the custodial service. Two protests per term will be required aleng with four convo- cations, the expected number of maintainances, and a bevy of new attendance requirements. The first protest rally will be held ene week from te- day in protest of the fact that one cannot receive extra portiens of pickle at the Hale House. The meeting was adjourned with a reciting of a series of quickly read quotations, some of which included, \shape up or ship out,\ \this is not coercion if you don't like it here you can go come place else,\ \.Mine is not to reason why, mine is but to do or die\ and a cheer for William Bukley. Conservative View: ··'··' ·_,,,\\\. ..... ,,;~, .. , .. ,_.,,,,,,\,. ... \,,,,,,._ .. ,.,t;,::.,~,,\\\''''''··''''\~*l\\;'\''~'-'\--'''·'\'' ,,,\····''······'· .. Onward Marxiatn Soldiers: State Schools Spread . ... .... . .. '.1,;.:·. 'iY.rany people who even glance at the title of this story or read what follows will sharply criti- cise me as a conservative or reactionary. In a sense l am a conservative. I want to conserve \rhat is beneficial to our society, but I also desire progrest> in our d~·namic world. I shudder at those in our country who advocate a Great Leap forward into a Great Societ~·. One should also remember that a conservative is no further from the middle of the political road than the liberal, despite attempts to n1ove the middle of the road through the liberal camp. During the coming weeks I hope I can explain my position more clearly in this column. Concern Presently my major concern is in the field of education. Norm:Jl1y I am a critic of our vast federal bureaucracy, nicely wrapped in its red tape, but in this article I direct my attentions to the gorcrnment of New York State. Primarily it is the cancerous growth of the state university system which apalls me. The University has be- come one of those pet political projects that is hard to stop once its momentum is attained. I do not mean to say that the state university system is useless like a cancerous growth. Cer- tainly there is a need for such a system. I am aggravated though since the system has far over- reached its origmal goals. l\'Iany of the programs and aims. of the system could have been fulfilled by the splendid private educational institutions t)lat New York is fortunate to have. That is, these goals could have been fulfilled if the same amount of money had been available to such colleges as Union. Superior System lt appears that New York wants a system su- perior to California. Indeed California has fur- nished many examples for the New York system. There is a very important difference between the two states. California had a few prominent schools for its very qualified students. Actually the Cali- fornia system was designed to fill a vacuum. The system was created in several layers. The most talented students went to the best schools in the public system. There were schools for those high school graduates that had not done so well in high school but still showed promise for the fu- ture. They might even have a chance to attend the best schools if they prove themselves in the intermediate system. Then there was also a com- plex system of junior colleges and other schools to fill the needed gaps. Most of this education was provided at no cost. Now lets reexamine the question of New York By FRANK McKIM The new academic center at Albany State is part of the University's ~ecent expansion. .__ ____ _ state. Here there were already several prominent have subsidizing some students, but at the same private schools in the area. These schools were time strengthening their private institutions well equipped to handle the highest quality stu- which already had a worthy reputation. By using dent. Certainly these schools had a high price the scholar incentive awards in such a manner, tag, but the good student could find money for students could have their education, but the gov- his needs if he was qualified. The highest echelon ernment would not be meddling in the affairs of of education already existed in New York state. the private schools. Private enterprise would be Essentially there was no vacuum in this area. greatly strengthened, and no tremendous outlay There was a more limited number of colleges for for new plants, faculties, and campuses would those people who were not as talented. There be required. was space for a few more colleges of this type. The real vacuum existed on the junior college level or slightly above it, For the average high school graduate, who was not admitted to New York's Unions, Cornell's, R.P.I.'s, and other schools of similar caliber, or could not obtain aid from such schools, there existed few educational opportunities. The goal of the New York program should have been to build schools for these people and offer them good solid courses that they could use. This would include a large network of junior colleges for those students wishing only one or two more years of education beyond high school. These people should have been expected to pay as much for this opportunity as they could af. ford. When a student did not have the money, he should have been able to obtain it through the scholar incentive program. Other funds should have been set aside for those qualified for the better colleges, but not wealthy enough to afford them. In this manner New York would Presumably many of the above plans were the original intentions of the State University sys- tem. I doubt if the state government had ever really intended in the beginning to take over control of some of the private liberal arts col- leges in the state, bringing an end of private en- terprise, by incorporating it with the government. But, this did happen and the situation is becom- ing worse. New York started building its junior colleges and teacher's colleges. Theil something slipped in the wheels and some genius decided that it might be nice if the New York govern- ment had a glossy university like Berkely to boast about. Maybe they could even outdo Cali- fornia. So they started to tighten the ac:imtssion requirements at some of their schools, ~a))..d to make sure they got the best students, they offered almost everything a student could ask for. 'They promised plush living quarters, well furnished labs, an excellent faculty, and of course free ed- Continued on Page 5 ~-EWEST LU,_.CH UNION BOOK COMPANY Let the lager freely flow. Down to Louis', let us so, 11.5 Albany Street Specializing: -HOT DOGS WITH FAMOUS SAUCE - DINNERS AND SANDWICHES - TAKE-OUT ORDERS - Union Students Favorite Spot - (Serving Schenectady Since 1921) Open 7 Days Per Week 6 A.M. - 4:00 A..M. 237-241 STATE STREET Books • • • Paperback Classics ·---· .d,. _ .. _~,.-+~~:.~:-:-~ Party Favors • • • Art Supplies Office Supplies A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State end Erie Blvd. Food Unexcelled in This Area For reservations phone FR 4-8917 tnursday, Me Dial(J ThinJ Samuel Jo prove n.:tm~elJ • 1 t onw th-rougn ot Lhe acuvr1 suggest tRat great, but tn grol!l.pS t~l pew ~I t a-1 anti mtet•e• tee .twuse, a Ammm Gatm to.r 1,Jeo _pie wr Tne uoncep nectaay, aim lS •lnCuHe(:! ~~ ceflee shOl)S. counwrpa1 ts e a re 1axea an blance ends t to retalH the snops wh1cn ~ . ( The non-pr verued seco11~ entry :toyer < • ( and. tastemu~ lS a !OITg l<:!~ selves to tree WlH l:le detra; • every patron t house. '!'he 0 commedate m Anether ctJ house Image . .t c de Hb er ate1y n · 1 tully ptannect last two days tl:UG-.12:00 mr' • Hewitt jlrran~ I. with a t1me1~ for a brjef sta who maw be 1 erator or the . { The talk w l tion penod \ as they w1sh. ~1 -.they want to certain effect taneous~ smgi because•it wo said that the • 'person who p pare himself. The goal o thought. He\\ • • tempts \not < the audience i u1ate con verse l side anc\ out < quented by pE \'' :<the :::ichcnecta wards a liberc judging from • • Any subject a person or gr it. Anyone wl phone Mr. H< ,. .rector Dave E programs ha~ bombing of Il singing, and ' traceptwn, ar .. : ., i!Jnion has aln · sentations b~· partment Chai Professor W il • members of tl Dialogt Town\ in the ( ucation. With 11. to say n< Once again, get what they take a small The fancy can ' 1 '..:ases they cot tution. After the state schc went on raids t) ,rlouble and tr petent men tl ~hing ~(} the J mcludJrtg min ,these faculty : 1 > .-ate college c their friends , college was t1 governmet).t c' i>, ,~nterprise. T< project. Some priva1 dents scarce, 1 their standarc e <--!lath seemed ' -;ystem. Then ly the small I , maize. •> ~ ( I) f) € I) «. Bird DIAN Enjoy 0 Cooked !tal Comfortab' Opp. Tl on 1\ Open Dail~ Sundays 5

So- para· Af. bons the s. A say- role the his of in of by do .to him, such al.\ by a a The to· .of not go . ·' gov- of d he the sys- ever over col- en- com- to Cali- d to ed- T\ursday March 2, 1967 \' ' Dialogue House Is . Thinker's Haven By STEVE Jl'OX Samuel Johnson once smd that man could prove .l:l·LmseH n1gher tnan the Amma! Kmgdom ~ 11 omy througn h1s aollltY to express lUeas. ;::,orne ot the a(ltlVJties on tne ath1et1c helds .seem to sug~est tnat man·s evo1utmn has not been that grtmt, but tnere 1s no spot on campus where groUJ!S o:r peop1e can meet and tallk m an in:torm- al anu lntel.Lel.:LUaJ atn1ospnete. Tne Dla1ogue <.;ot· tee J:!ouse, a snort ten wmutes' waJk trom the Ammnl Gates, nils the obv1ous need. lor a p1ace tor .veop,Le wuung to ttun:K. ~---------------------------------------------------------------, Kennedy At Skidm.ore By STEVE GLANZROCK Appearing at Skidmore College last week, Senator Robert F. Kennedy (Dem. M.Y.l, rein- forced his stand on revising New York 'state's ·eighty-four year old .abortion law. The present statute permits abortions only in cases where the mother's life is at stake. Kennedy, speak· ing in response to a question from the audi- ence, made it clear that he was acting both as an individual and as the representative of his constituents' views. • • • Jazz: Fro1n Post Bop To New Music, It All Swings By CLIFF SAFANE 5 Tne concept o1 the Lllawgue is unique in Sche- nectady, ana perhaps m tne u mteu ,:,tates wh1ch ts mc11nea. towaras the lireenwlCh Vt!J.age-type coitee shops. 1t 1s s1m11ar ttl that ot its New York counteqJ<:~~ts omy u1 tne r~spect that 1t develops a re1axea ana 11bera1 atnl.osphere. 'The resem- nlance ends there because the lJialOgue has tned to JJetatn the style ot the ongmal earJy-Amencan shops whlcn suw1ved 1n Europe. Senator Kennedy's prepared remarks con- cerned the recently enacted law fen:nitting taxpayers to earmark one dollar o their tax money to either of this country's two major political parties for financing presidential cam- paigns. He asserted that this was a dangevous law because it does not permit the taxpayer to contr!bute to ~he party of his choice, but only permits contnbutlons to the two largest. .par- ties. Kennedy felt that it is an unwise law be- cause it permits the political parties involved to expend huge quantities of money without any accounting other than the statement of the party treasurer. He is currently support- ing an amendment. to the bill that would .per- mit ta;x:payers to make any contribution to the party ·Of their choice a tax-deductable expend- \Bobby Hutcherson, Happenings, ('Blue ~ote)­ Hutcherson's third album as a leader is a very good example of controlled avant garde. Hutch- erson is an excellent vibraharpist who has tech- nique and plenty of ideas. He is superbly backed by the brilliant pianist Herbie Hancock who plays some amazing solos, and accompanies the leader with great taste. Organization The non-pFofit org<:~mzatJon, located in a con- vened setulla-noor uance studw, consists of an entry toyer and a large, relatively well-lighted, ~ I · r and tastel!uily pamteel mam room. On one sH:te 1s a wng taoie where patrons may help them- ! selves to :tree cottee ana Cloughnuts, whose costs 1 w1H be derrayed 'by .part ot the donation whtch I every patron rtoperully will maK.e to support the • c house, '!'he old stage. serves as a balCony to ac- commodate more chall's. hnotner dttlerence trom th~ papular co:ffee house 1m~ge ts the Dialogues attempt to present '·I '' aeuberatew meanmgru1 experiences through care- , tUllY pLanned programs. 'luese take place on the I . last two ctays of each 'l'hursaay t.brough l:)unday, S:00\12:00 mtdmght weeK, when :Director Terry Hewitt arranges a half hour program concerned • i with a ''iimety subJect. The usual procedure is I for .a br~ef statement by an authority on the topic, · who m , be interrupted at any tlme by the mod- i· erator o · the audrence. • '· ~ Questions I The talk will be followed by a general ques- 11 , tion penod where the audience can participate as they wtsh. 1'-IO one has to say anything unless ~I they wa;tit to. Director Hew1tt beueves that a ' certain · 1:\ffect will thus be achieved which \spoo- l . taneous\' singing or poetry reading would not do because .. ::it would not convey as much.\ HE;! also said that the programs would be better if the i . (person who puts them on has had time to pre- 1 pare himself. Tile. goal of the Coffee House is to provoke • thought. Hewitt descnbed the programs as at- , , tempts ''not only to brmg some imormation to 'the audience in mteresting ways, but also to stim- Ulate conversation on common grounds both in- side and out of the house.\ The Dialogue is fre- quented by people of all ages and outlooks from t the Schenectady area and Union, but it tends to- wards a liberal or even radical youthful attitude, judging from the usual audience reaction. Discussion ~ \ Any subject may be brought under discussion if a person or group of people volunteers to present it. Anyone who has a program in mind can tele- phone !Vlr. Hewitt at 346-4515, or Program Di- • ,.rector Dave BenDaniel at 372-6682. In the past, programs have ranged from a debate on the bombing of Hanoi, C1vil Rights, the art of folk- singmg, and cybernet1cs to Zert Buddhism, con- , traceptwn, and appreciation of modern dance. .. I ... Union has already been represented through pre- ! sentations by President Martin, Philosophy De- partment Chairman Sven Petersen, and Soc10Iogy Professor Willison, as well as a recent effort by •. (members of the Moving Finger group. Notice of future Dialogue events can be found in \Around Town\ in the Concordiensis. '· iture. Favorable Response In response to questions concerning the admission of Red China to the United Na- .tions, the policy of issuing draft deferments to college students, and the question ()£ halt- ing the bombing of :North Vietnam, the audi- ence reaction was one of overall support in favor of these proposals. Also, a majority of those students present, indicated that they would seriously consider joining the Peace Corps upon the completion of their eclucations. On questions asking if those present supported the present administration's policy in Vietnam, the majority said they did, and there was al- most unanimous agJJeement that the United States could not unilaterally withdraw from Vietnam. Kennedy's .Jast question was de- signed to determine how many people were in favor of lowering the voting age to eighteen, whereupon almost everyone present indicated they would be in favor of such a change. The Senator said that he felt such a change was reasonable and desirable. Questions Kennedy answered various questions from the aud1ence. One such question inquired if he had spoken to Senator Fulbright about the efforts of a certain West Coast group to draft a Kennedy-Fulbright ticket in '68. He said that he had not, and that he had also requested that particular group to discontinue their ac- tivities. When questioned about whom he would like to see the Republicans nominate for the Presidency in '68, Kennedy quickly re- turned-Barry Goldwater. The entire atmosphere of the program was that of a spirited and attentive gathering. The personal warmth and humor of the Senator was overwhelming, and the audience was clear- ly delighted by Kennedy's wit and charm. His effectiveness as a politician is undeniable; Kennedy is a crowd-pleaser. His appearance at Skidmore only serve to prove theis once again. Geology Department Stagnates Despite Increasing Importance Ey WILLIAM D. WARCHOLIK is time for the Trustees and the Administration ~o realize that geologists play an important part The staff of the Geology Department was cut m the world of today and will continue to do so in half recently when Professor Hewitt resigned. in the future; the Trustees and the Administra- It is time for the undel\lying reason for this resig- bon must be made to realize that the Geology nation to be made public. Department is as important as any other depart- Professor Hewitt enjoys the respect and admir· ment on campus! ation of all those students who have taken geo- Fears logy--introductory or advanced- which were h taught by him. Union's geology majors will, how- . To counter t e fears anyone may have that the h ff · lus t\ llllprovement of the Geology Department would ever, feel t e e ects of t reslgna wn even mvolve a prohibitive cost, the potential that is more than those many other students who are present in Umon's existmg geology department aware of his excellent teaching ability. must be made known. The fact 1s that Uruon Well-known College has geologiCal collections worth hundreds · kn th p f H 'tt of thousands of dollars, excluding many items The geology maJors · ow at ro essor ewt that are irreplaceable and, theretore, priceless. is well-li:nown and respected by geologists aro.und ln addition, Union is situated m a geological lo- the world. Just last year, for example, he was · P resident of the National Association of Geology catiOn that is, as Professor Hewitt has srud, \Un· h · h equalled by any other locatiOn in the world for Teachers. One must ask the question, w Y lS sue d1v~rstticat1on and excellence of all types of geo- a top man leaving Union's faculty? This question logical formations!\ The fact that Union is lo- has even more signiiicance when one considers cated near the Catskill, Adirondack, and Taconic the fact that withm the past few months Pro- Mountains, among others, and is part of the bot- fessors Hewitt and Hall, the only two men in tom of ancient Lake Albany is evidence of this di· the Geology Department, were commended for versification. maintaining an excellent and complete geology curriculUm while being understaffed and having factor inadequate facilities. This commendation was re- A final important factor which illustrates the Mar vl• m ceived at the conclusion of an inspection tour quality of Union's more than one century old .• .....1 • -'.1 a . . • • • • that was given by a visiting committee of geolo· geology program is the success that geology ' · d p 4 gists. majors who have graduated from Union have en- 1 Contmue from age There are several reasons for Professor Hew- joyed their careers. Graduate schools across the ',: ucation. With all of this, students would find it . . h t . t t . h Un·ted 1 States are ~Imost alw=s wt'lling to accept 1:1 d t itt's resignatiOn· t e mos rmpor an reason, ow- ., -., t I 1i ar 0 say no. ever, can be dir\ectly linked to the preceeding re· a Union geology major because so many men ' Once again, there was a flaw in this theory. To port from the committee. The reason is that the who were geology majors at Union have been ex- get what they had promised the students, it would Administration and the Trustees have decided to tremely successful in their careers. With the take a small fortune of the taxpayer's money. allow the Geology Department to remain in its prestige that Union's Geology Department already The fancy campuses were expensive and in many d d 1 · d t t has and. with the pri'celess collectt'ons and unt\que • c. th d ff th · t · t· present understaffe an poor y eqmppe s a e -cases ey coul o er more . an a pnva e Ins 1- for the foreseeable future.. At a time wh~n al- location of the department, it can easily be seen tution. After all, the funds were unlimited for art t that it would take J·ust a little effo·rt and a rela- th t t h I T dd · lt t · · th most all other dep men s on campus are ex- e s a e sc oo s. o a tnsu o InJury ey · · d th G I tlvely small amount .of money to buil' d a geology t 'd t fi d th · f lt Th :f£ d panding, this stagnation !Dlpose on e eo ogy wen on rai s o n . err acu y, ey o ere Department can only be due to a lack of pl~- department that could easily become one of the •. ~rlouble an.d triple salaries to steal away the com- ning by the Administration for its future. This best in the world! petent men: they wanted. They promised every- lack of nlannl·ng may be interpreted as meaning Potential thing t~ the greatest educators they could find, .., The highlight of the album is a ballad by Hutcherson called \When You Are Near.\ It can't be described by words other than the cliche beautiful. And it is just that. \Lee Morgan, Cornbread, (Blue Note) \-This al- bum is a good example of the post bop style- swinging and unpretentious. All the solos are good, with Morgan on trumpet and Herbie Han- cock on piano being especially impressive. Spe- cial mention must be made of Billy Higgins' drumming. Higgins really drives the group, with- out ever getting in the way of the soloists. I hope that this record brings him the attention that he deserves. \The Three Sounds, Vibrations, <Slue Note)\- Dr. Jeckle and Mr. Hyde must have produced this album. The first side must have been made with the teeny hoppers in mind for it is just about all rock. And it is horrible. Every tune is just about ruined including the lovely \Fever\ and \It was a Very Good Year.\ The Beatles and Byrds .play rock better, and I wish the Sounds would leave the music to these groups. The second side is jazz. However, the first two tunes are cocktail jazz with little to recommend. Then comes \Django\ and \Charade.\ These tunes are played well and really swing. It's ob· vious from the last two tracks that the Sounds can play good jazz. So why don't they? \Bill Evans, A Simple Matter of Conviction, (.Verve)\-Evans has such a beautiful touch. He is capable of creating so much beauty which many times isn't captured on record. My biggest complaint with this album is that I feel that Evans sounds as if he were being held under reign. Yet the music is fairly good, and when Evans gets going, he is really something. High- lights of the album are \My Melancholy Baby\ and \Stella By Starlight.\ George Eraith, Extension, <Bl!ler .Note)-Usual- ly I dislike org~n with tenor records. But this one I like. Braith is a good musician although not a great one. He plays well here, and shows that he knows how to pace himself. The key to the album, however, is organist Billy Gardner. He doesn't blast the listener out of his seat or employ all the funky clichees like most organists do. I've never heard Gardner be· fore, but I hope that he continues to play this way. Freddie Hubbard, Blue Spirits, (&lae Note)- This is a good album by a rising young trumpeter. Hubbard plays well but I've heard th.e sidemen on the date play better. \Jodo\ and \Outer Forces\ are played very well. \Bltte Spirits\ brings out some of the avant garde iw Hubbard. All and all, a good album with signs that Hubbard is about to make the big stl'p and join the avant garde. Welcome! \John Coltrane, Live At the Village Vanguard Again, (lmpulse)-If you don't like pure avant garde, stay away, this is for you. Coltrane and company play their hearts out. And you can really feel what they play if you listen with an open mind. Special praise must go to Jimmy Gar- rison who is absolutely a great bass player. Strongly recommended for those who are will- ing to listen. includiifv minimal contact with students. When that the Administration and the Trustees hope When the Trustees and the Administration be- th f o lt b d f th · ld · that the entire Geology Department will disap- f h - \Sam Rivers, Contours, (Blue Note)\-What an ese ay.u Y mem ers move rom err o pn- pear, thereby elimm\ ating the need to spend any come aware o .t. e Importance of geology and album. All the tunes are good, but one must <vate college campuses, they often took some of when they realize the potential that exists in · d their friends with them. The faculty of the small more money for its upkeep; perhaps they fe~l Union's geology department, they will certainly simply hear \Tripedal Dance.\ It lS avant gar e college vtas thus left with big gaps. Once again that spending money on a geology department IS act intelligently; that is, they will hire several at its best. Tenorist Rivers plays an excellent governmel).t competition was felt keenly in free wasting money because, at best, such ~ depart- geologists rather than just a single replacement; solo fusing the old and new jazz. Pianist Herbie l~nterprise. Taxes were increased to pay for the ment is only a supplement to other science de- they will put the Geology Department on a level Hancock and his rhythm coherts of Ron Carter project. partments. . . equal to that of other scientifi~ de.partments (bass) and Joe Chambers (drums) put together Some private schools found well qualified stu- Ridiculous on campus with respect to funds for purchase of a great collective improvisation. And their sup- dents scarce, and they were faced with lowering This type of thinking w~ic_h is .mad~ ev.id.ent equipment and to plans for better faciLities in a port of the soloists is also very good. their standards or losing enrollment. An easier by the actions of the Ad!lllmstratlOn, 1s rtdlCU· modern building. Since these things have not And then Freddie Hubbard. His trumpet solo • '1lath seemed to lead to mergers with the state Ious. Geology and its closely rela~ed field, <Jce~n- yet been done, it can only be hoped that Pro- is nothing short of amazing. Wild leaps and some system. Therefore some private industries, name- ography 1 are the scien_ces that will. be. most 1m- fessor Hewitt's resignation will wake up the Trus- weird sounds which are so musically valid come ly the small liberal arts school, were lost in the portont m the explorat~on an~ explOita!tOI). of the tees and Administration enough to allow them to from his horn. This solo clearly shows that Hub- maize. two major frontiers w1th which man 1s JUst be· discover the importance and potential of Union bard can play the new music, and that he should J ,-------------------- ginning to deal-the oceans and outer space! It College's Geology Department. continue to do so. ~====~~~~~~~~==~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Bird Lives ' ;· (l from Clift DIAMANTE'S E :u~·· ·:.'.R· · .. ·o· · · -·p· · E· ' . . . Let Fugazy Help You Plan Your Summer Vacation. Jay Jewelry Co. 315 STATE STREET ;})iamoncL ... ,, Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked , lt<Jiian Food in Our Comfortable Dinning Room . We've b~en in the business for 97 years. Use our experience to get the most for your money. Purchased in Belgium and Imported for Your Savings. Eliminate the Importer and Wholesaler. } Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott Street Open Daily !0 to I A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to I A.M. Fugazy Travel Bureau 434 State Street, Phillips Bldg. 374-4111 Arnold Fisher '50

para- Af- the s. A say- role the his of in of by do to him, such al.\ d by a by a The to- of not go . ,. gov- of d be the sys- ever over col- en- to Cali- ssion to e ed- i Trhursday, March 2, 1967 \' t Dialogue House Is Thinker's Haven '' By STEVE 1<'0~ Samuel Johnsuu once saul that man COU'ld prove n:1m~en ll'!gher than the Amma! Kmgdorn •, t onw througn hts anuuy to express Hieas. ;:,orne ' ot Lhc acuvrtw~ on ure ath1euc t.Ie!ds seem to suggest tnat n1an s evthUtlon has not been that great, but mere IS no spot on campus where groups t~l pc~Jvre can meet and talk m an interm- 1 j t <H and: mteHe<.l.Ua! atH!OspheJ e. Lne v~a1ogue Col- tee .twuse, a snort ten Jumu~es' waH~ !rom the Alllmtu t...ates, nt1s tne ol:lvJous need 1or a l'Hace tor J,Jeo_pie wnung to ttnnK. Tne concept ot tne v1awgue is unique in Sche- nectauy, mm perhaps HI tne unttect >::>ta~es whrctl 1s ·1ncunect u0wards the \.xreenwJCh VN1age-type coflee shops. 1t rs st.m:11ar tv that o1 its l'l'ew YorK .,. counterp<H ts omy m tne respect that 1t develops e a re1axea ana ubera1 atniosphere. The resem- blance ends tlilere IJecause the UialOgue has tned to retaHl the ~tyte ot tne ongmal eany-Amencan snops wh1cn su1 VI ved 1n Eum.pe. • r Organiza#on The no,n-profit orgamzatwn,. located tn a con- vened secumH1oor uance studiO; consists of an entry :!!oyer and a large, relatively well-lighted, ~ 1 ana tastemuy pawteu mam room. On one stde 1s .a 10ng 1W:He wllere patrons may help them- selves to tr(:!e cot1ee ana cl0uglmms, whose costs w111 ~:>e detrayecl by part ot me donation wh1ch every patron nopemny Will maKe to support the • ( nouse. The old stage serves as a IJatcony to ac- com,modate more cnmrs. Another dltiererrce trom the popular coffee house linage Is the Dialogues attempt to present .~ 1 cteuoerate1y meanmgiul expenences through care- .\ tUllY planned programs. 'lnese taH::e place on the last two days ot each Thursctay through ::;unday, ~:0@-.l<::OO n:udmght week, when Director Terry Hewttit 11rranges a half hour program concerned • 1 · wtth a t1me1y sub~ect. The usuar procedure is for a brjet statement by an autllonty on the topic, who maw be Interrupted at any t}me by the mod- erator or the audience. • ~ Questions The talk will be follOwed by a general ques- l tion penod where the audience can partic1pate as they w1sh. l'\jl!l one has to say anythmg unless t 1 .. they want to. Director Hew1tt beueves that a certain effect will thus be achieved which \spon- taneous~ smging or poetry reading would not do because'it would not convey as much.\ He also said that the programs would be better if the • <person who puts them on has had time to pre- pare himself. The goal of the Coffee House is to provoke thought. Hewitt descnbed the programs as at· ,. • tempts \not on!y to brmg some imormation to the audience in mteresting ways, but also to stim- ulate conversation on common grounds both in- l side anc! out of the house.\ The Dialogue is fre- quented by people of a]l ages and outlooks from ., 1 '.t the ::ichenectady area and Union, but it tends to- wards a liberal or even radical youthful attitude, judging from the usual audience reactiOn. Discussion • • Any subject may be brought under discussion if a person or group of people volunteers to present it. Anyone who has a program lll mind can tele- phone Mr. Hewitt at il46-4515, or Program Di- • .rector Dave BenDaniel at 372-6682. In the past, programs have ranged from a debate on the bombing of Hanoi, C1vil Rights, the art of folk· singing, and cybernetics to Zen Buddhism, con· traceptwn, ami appreciatwn of modern dance. .. : . .Union has alreatly been represented through pre· · ' sentations by President lHartln, Philosophy De· partment Chairman Sven Petersen, and Sociology Professor Willison, as well as a recent effort by • · 1 members of the Moving Finger group. Notice of future Dialogue events can be found in \Around Town\ in the Concordiensis. \' ·-Marxiam • • ~ • Continued from Page 4 ucation. With all of this, students would find it 11 ~IJard to say no. Once again, there was a flaw in this theory. To get what they hau prumi~ed the :;tudents, it would take a small fortune of the taxpayer's money. The fancy campuses were expensive and in many ' 1 1 ..:a:;es they could offer more than a private insti- tution. After all, the funds were unlimited for the state schools. To add insult to injury they went on raids to find their faculty. They offered OJ and triple salaries to steal away the com· petent men they wanted. They promised every- thing t9 the greatest educators they could find, including minimal contact with students. When these faculty members moved from their old pri- •> <_,ate college campuses, they often took some of their friends with them. The faculty of the small college was thus left with big gaps. Once again governmel).t competition was felt keenly in free i>, enterprise. Taxes were increased to pay for the project. Some private schools found well qualified stu- dents scarce, and they were faced with lowering 1 their standards or losing enrollment. An easier 111 {'!lath seemed to lead to mergers with the state o;ystem. Therefore some private industries, name- ly the small liberal arts school, were lost in the . maize. f) \ ( I) ;) e Bird Lives from CUff Kennedy At Skidtnore .. • • By STEV:E GLANZROCK Appearing at Skidmore College last week, Senator Robert F. Kennedy (Dem. r(.Y.), rein- ferced his stand on revising New York State's eighty-four year old abortion law. The present statute permits abortions only in cases where the mother's life is at stake. Kennedy, speak- ing in response to a question from the audi- ence, made it clear that he was acting both as an individual and as the representative of his constituents' views. Senator Kennedy's prepared remarks con- cerned the recently enacted law permitting taxpayers :to earmark one dollar of their tax money to either ·of this country's two major political parties for financing presidential cam- paigns. He asserted that this was a dangerous ·law because it does not permit the taxpayer to centribute to the party of his choice, but only :permits contributions to the two largest par- ties. Kennedy felt that it is an unwise law be- cause it permits the political parties involved to expend huge quantities of money without any accounting other than the statement of the party treasurer. He is currently support- j,ng an amendment to the bill that would per- ~mt taxpayers to !Rake any contribution to the party of their choice a tax-deductable expend- iture. Favorable Response In response to questions concerning the admission of Red China to the United N a- tions, the poLicy of issuing draft deferments to college students, and the question of halt- ing the bombing of North Vietnam, the aud·i- ence reaction was one of overall support in favor of these proposals. Also, a majority of those students present, indicated that they would seriously consider joining the Peace Corps upon the completion of their educations. On questions asking if those present supported the present administration's policy in Vietnam, the majority said they did, and there was al- most unanimous agreement that the United States could not unilaterally withdraw from Vietnam. Kennedy's last question was de- signed to determine how many people were in favor of lowering the voting age to eighteen, whereupon almost everyone present indicated they would be in favor of such a change. The Senator- said that he felt Stich a change was reasonable and desirable. Questions Kennedy answered various questions from the audience. One such question inquired if he had spoken to Senator Fulbright about the efforts of a certain West Coast group to draft a Kennedy-Fulbright ticket in '6B. He said that he had not, and that he had also requested that puticular group to discontinue their ac- tivities. When questioned about whom he would like to see the Republicans nominate for the Presidency in '68, Kennedy quickly re- turned-Barry Goldwater. The entire atmosphere of the program was that of a spirited and attentive gathering. The personal warmth and humor ef the Senator was over\Vhelming, and the audience was clear- ly deligl!ted by Kennedy's wit and charm. His effectiveness as a politician is undeniable; Ke_nnedy is a crowd-pleaser. His appearance at Sk1dmore only serve to prove theis once again. Geology Department Stagnates Despite Increasing Importance By WlLLIAM D. WARCHOLIK The staff of the Geology Department was cut in half recently when Protessor Hewitt resigned. It is time for the underlying reason for this resig- nation to be made public. Professor Hewitt enjoys the respect and admir- ation of all those students who have taken geo- logy-introductory or advanced- which were taught by him. Union's geology majors will, how- ever, feel the effects of thts resignation even more than those many other students who are aware of his excellent teaching ability. Well-known The geology majors know that Professor Hewitt is well-Known and respected by geologists around the world. Just last year, for example, he was president of the National Association of Geology Teachers. One must ask the quest10n, why is such a top man leaving Union's faculty? This question has even more s1gnilicance when one considers the fact that withm the past few months Pro- fessors Hewitt and Hall, the only two men in the Geology Department, were commended for maintaining an excellent and complete geology curriculUm while being understaffed and having inadequate facilities. ~his comme!Jdatio~ was re- ceived at the conclus10n of an mspectlon tour that was given by a visiting committee of geolo- gists. There are several reasons for Professor Hew- itt's resignation. the most important reason, how- ever, can be dir'ectly linked to the preceeding re- port from the committee. The reason is t~at the Administration and the Trustees have dec1ded to allow the Geology Department to remain in its present understaffed and poorly equipped state for the foreseeable future. At a time when al- most all other departments on campus are ex- panding, this stagnation imposed on the Geology Department can only be due to a lack of plaJ?.· ning by the Administrati~n for its future. T;h1s lack of planning may be mterpreted as meamng that the Administration and the Trustees hope that the entire GeolO!$Y Department will disap- pear, thereby eliminating the nee<;I to spend any more money for its upkeep; perhaps they fe~l that spending money on a geology department IS wasting money because, at best, such ~ depart- ment is only a supplement to other science de- partments. Ridiculous This type of thinking, wl!ic.h is .mad~ ev.id.ent by the actions of the Admimstratwn, IS ndiCU· lous Geology and its closely related field, ocean- ography are the sciences that will be most im- portant in the e~plorat!on anq exploita!io~ of the two major frontiers with wh1ch man Is JUSt be- ginning to deal-the oceans and outer space! It is time for the Trustees and the Administration ~o realize that geologists play an important part m the world of today and w1ll continue to do so in the future; the Trustees and the Administra- twn must be made to realize that the Geology Department is as important as any other depart- ment on campus! Fears . To counter the fears anyone may have that the Improvement of the GeolOgy Department would mvolve a prohibitive cost, the potential that is present m Umon's existmg geology department must be made known. The fact 1s that U mon College has geologiCal collections worth hundreds of thousands of dollars, ex:cluding many items that are irreplaceable and, theretore, priceless. In ,addition •. Union is situated m a geological lo- catiOn that 1s, as Professor Hewitt has sa1d, .. un- equalled. .by any other locat10n in the world for d!vers1licat10n and excellence of all types of geo- logical formations!\ The fact that Union is lo- cated near the Catskill, Adirondack, and Taconic Mountains, among others, and is part of the bot- tom of ancient Lake Albany is evidence of this di- versification. Factor A final important factor which illustrates the quality of Union's more than one century old geology program is the success that geology majors wno have graduated from Union have en- joyed their careers. Graduate schools across the United States are almost alwa.ys willing to accept a Union geology major because so many men who wer-e geology majors at Union have been ex- tremely successful in their careers. With the prestige that Union's Geology Department already has and with the priceless collections and unique location of the department, it can easily be seen that it would take just a little effort and a rela- tively small amount of money to build a geology department that could easily become one of the best in the world! Potential When the Trustees and the Administration be- come aware of the importance of geology and when they realize the potential that exists in Union's geology department, they will certainly act intelligently; that is, they will hire several geologists rather than just a single replacement· they will put the Geology Department on a levei equal to that of other scientific departments on c;ampus with respect to funds for purchase of eqUipment and to plans for better facilities in a modern building. Since these things have not yet been done, it can only be hoped that Pro- fessor lfewitt's resignation will wake up the Trus- tees and Administration enough to allow them to discover the importance and potential of Union College's Geology Department. Jazz: From Post Bop To New Music, It All Swings By CLIFF SAFANE 5 \Bobby Hutcherson, Happenings, <Blue :\'ote)- Hutcherson's third album as a leader is a very good example of controlled avant garde. Hutch- erson is an excellent vibraharpist who has tech· nique and plenty of ideas. He is superbly backed by the briHiant pianist Herbie Hancock who plays some amazing solos, and accompanies the leader with great taste. The highlight of the album is a ballad by Hutcherson caHed \When Y0u Are Ncar.\ lt can't be described by words other than the cliche beautifuL And it is just that. \Lee Morgan, Cornbread, (.Blue Note) \-This al- bum is a good example of the post bop style- swinging and unpretentious. All the solos arc good, with Morgan on trumpet and Herbie Han- cock on piano being especially impressive. Spe- cial mention must be made of Billy Higgins' drumming. Higgins really drives the group, with- out ever getting in the way of the soloists. I hope that this record brings him the attention that he deserves. \The Three Sounds, Vibrations, <Blue Note)\- Dr. Jeckle and Mr. Hyde must have produced this album. The first side must have been made with the teeny boppers in m1nd for it is just about all rock. And it is horrible. Every tune is just about ruined including the lovely \Fever\ and \It was a Very Good Year.\ The Beatles and Byrds play rock better, and I wish the Sounds would leave the music to these groups. The second side is jazz. However, the fi.rst two tunes are cocktail jazz with little to recommend. Then comes \Django\ and \Charade.\ These tunes are played well and really swing. It's ob- vious from the last two tracks that the Sounds can play good jazz. So why don't they? \Bill Evans, A Simple Matter of Conviction, (Verve) \-Evans has such a beautiful touch. He is capable of creating so much beauty which many times isn't captured on record. My biggest complaint with this album is that I feel that Evans sounds as if he were being held under reign. Yet the music is fairly good, and when Evans gets going, he is really something. High- lights of the album are \My Melancholy Baby\ and \Stella By Starlight.\ George Braith, Extension, <Blue Notel-Usual- ly I dislike organ with tenor records. But this one I like. Braith is a good musician although not a great one. He plays well here, and shows that he knows how to pace himself. The key to the album, however, is organist Billy Gardner. He doesn't blast the listener out of his seat or employ all the funky clichccs like most organists do. I've never heard Gardner be- fore, but I hope that he continues to play this way. Freddie Hubbard, Blue Spirits, (Blue Note)- This is a good album by a rising young trumpeter. Hubbard plays well but I've heard. the sidemen on the date play better. \Jodo\ and \Outer Forces\ are played very well. «Blue Spirits\ brings out some of the avant garde in Hubbard. All and all, a good album with signs that Hubbard is about to make the big st<'P ancl join the avant garde. Welcome' \John Coltrane, Live At the Village Vanguard Again, (lmpulse)-If rou don't like pure avant garde, stay away, this is for you. Coltrane and company play their hearts out. And you can really feel what they play if you listen with an open mind. Special praise must go to Jimmy Gar- rison who is absolutely a great bass player. Strongly recommended for those who are will- ing to listen. \Sam Rivers, Contours, (Blue Note) \-What an album. All the tunes are good, but one must simply hear \Tripedal Dance.\ It is avant garde at its best. Terrorist Rivers plays an excellent solo fusing the old and new jazz. Pianist Herbie Hancock and his rhythm coherts of Ron Carter (bass) and Joe Chambers (drums) put together a great collective improvisation. And their sup- port of the soloists is also very good. And then, Freddie Hubbard. His trumpet solo is nothing short of amazing. Wild leaps and some weird sounds which are so musically valid come from his horn. This solo clearly shows that Hub- bard can play the new music, and that he should continue to do so. •tVttrtVff\li'f't'Yf¥'f'ifff¥TY'TTTTTTTfffYYYtitt¥tTf'fTiY9ftTffTTT¥f'T Jay Jewelry Co. 31 5 STATE STREET DIAMANTE'S Let Fugazy Help You Plan Your Summer Vacation. <.1 . 0 .. Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dinning Room . Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott Str~et Open Daily 10 to I A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to I A.M. We've been in the business for 97 years. Use our experience to get the most for your money. Fugazy Travel Bureau 434 State Street, Phillips Bldg. 374·4111 Purchased in Belgium and Imported for Your Savings. Eliminate the Importer and Wholesaler. Arnold Fisher ;50

6 Letters to the Editor Published Thursdays dur-ing the ecnoo• )\ear bY the Student Body of Union Colle~re, Schenectady, N. Y. National Advertising Representative: National . Advertising Service, Inc.. CoJ.leg~ Publishers Representative. 420 Madl· · son Ave .. N. Y. C. To Mr •. T. \their credulous fellows\ could only imply the conscientious and To the Editor: deeply concerned members of \And now I lay me down to Union's faculty who have lent sleep, the group their support. Mr. \I pray the Lord my soul T. had better take care to in. to keep . . . \ form himself of the identities I sincerely hope that Mr. T. of these \credulous\ faculty ' '70 (Letters td the Ed1tor, Con· members, lest he find himself Editorial Office, Old Gym. Union Col·· cordy, Feb. 23) can fin.d it with- placed in a classroom under lege. Publication Office. Schenectady in himself to excuse the child their instruction. Printing Company, 602 Broadway. who would ·have the audac1'ty h T e author of the letter, Entered in the Schenectady Post Of· .to .propose to to advi'se the great d ' h moreover, a m1ts is ignorance flee as Second Class ~lall Matter. Lord 1n heaven to guard h1s 1'n- f · · o a \situatiOn of which only the Subscription 15c a copy; $ 8 a year significant, paltry little soul. top government heads are delivered anywhere In the United Certainly this presumptuous in- aware.\ I suggest to Mr. T. states. cantation is comparable to a and the American people then, r;;ENIOlt noARD small segment of Union under- that something is wrong here. Jos·EPH A. ~1.\:S:S. Jit. · 6 s 37~-ns; ....... I:tlttut·-in-chler graduates who would only pro- This is the information gap that JACK I~TKI:S • 68 _ .... . :116-!'~~9 . llusin<>ss Manager pose to advise a somewhat less divides the American public RICHAHD BALAGUR 'GU.. .. ........ · .. · · .. News Editor awesome President .of the from their government, perhaps (men) in power?\ Ye~, Mr. T., \Apparently ~ven Union College has its share or eternal proteste~s.\ Your 1etter only serves to dramatize tne need for a responsible 1nd1VId· uallsm that can ev1scerate the general disconcern ot unwn College and its student boay. And If you chose to resort \\' the immature namecalung ·£hat characterized your \letter · ·u.v at !east, to become a war-e UL what your words call yuu. :Per· haps you Wlll then betLer ttn· derstand our positiOn as well a<> your own. l1 not, then perhaps you had better JUSt, ''keep tne fa1th, baby.\ Sincerely, Stephen A. Glanzrock '70 AI,AN ZIEGLEJ~ '69 ......... · ....... ......... .. ..•. Fe~tur~s ~~:;~~ United States. I mean, if these by necessity oftentimes, but MICHAEL LEVIN-EPSTEIN ' 69 ..................................................... ~~:i~ Editor students would have the gall to then this is precisely why peti- cLII-'lo' 8 AI•\A:SE ·ni• inform their President of their tions and letters of advice ''Foolish\' T JUNIOR BOARD views, then somebody, some- should be, and must be under- Alan Klein '69 ......... ............... .... . ....... Ass't News Editor ·• where had better protect that taken as a means of informing To the Editor: Dick Daniel '70 ......... ..... .. .. ......... Photographer . poor little innocent child, for the President and his constitu- In the last issue of Concord- Peter Drotman '69 .. .. .. Lm·al Advertising ~anager · he knows not what he does. ents' v~ews. Henry David Thor- iens1s, a \JV!r. T.\ expressed h1s George Volanakis '69 ... .... . ..... .. .... ... .. .. .. .. .. ......... Subscript!on ~ anagel' I want to ma.ke t't clear that d t th Joel Rubenzahl '68 ........................................................ National Advertising Manager eau once said, \Let every man lSSatlSiaCIOn Wl · the \10ng- Henry Rines ·s 9 ........ .... ...Distribution Thlanag-ev this letter is· not an attempt to make known what kind of gov- haH:'eU, mustached, goateed lac- Paul Gerber '68 ..... .. . .... ctrculatian Manag-er argue over United States for- ernment would command his t10n O! rebels anu tnerr creuu1- Gary Pl'PVOSt 'li~l ·-- .. .. .A·ssneiatf' Hpurts Editor . l' . v· t I d d h . 1 11 t u \ li .\ssistant ~ 1 m 1 ·ts Editor eign po 1cy m 1e nam. o respect, an · t at w1.U be one ous e ows a n1on. e Uls- Al LP\'I ·r,~ • h h d d . h ht t k · feel t e need, · owe¥er, (an step toward obtaining it. * * * ~· approve oft eu r1g ·o spea Mr. T. makes it necessarily Must the citizen ever for a mo- 1arge1y oecause they were vro- easy), to denounce the irrespon· ment, or in the least degree, test.ng .a .l:'restuentlal poucy. ,vrr. sible namecaHing in a letter resign his conscience to the leg- '.1:'. associated thiS g10UJ:1 w•m STAFF niE:\IBERS NEWS: Brian Holley, Len Kagan. :-lei! Kramer. Richard Patterson. Carl Engle· hal't. Hrll Hu~~. Ito~· F'ruitt•rllHtn. :St•ul t;.ordon. Bill Brt·ilnunv H.khanl .ItosE'nbt.:>rg. Itil'h Uilman. t,l~ATUiti~S: Strovt> Fox. Brian Izzo. ~~ott HiN~lPr. 8POJtTS: Mike FU<·hs. ll!ike !{layman, Jpfl' Kurzlus. Len Simun. Council Actions We are pleased that the All-College Council has voted unanimously to reopen their meetings to the college com- munity. Under the new arrangements, students will have an opportunity to express their opinions to the All-College Council members directly; we hope that they will make use of this occasion in order to acquaint the council with prevailing student feeling. Concordiensis is also glad to see that the council will review Union's residential living policy. The rules as they stand now are unfair; one cannot instill a feeling of com- munity pride and create an atmosphere of clear thinking by forcing all students to accept college housing. Those stu- dents who are unhappy with the present housing system should maJre known their views to the All-College Council. If students fail to take action now, there will be no reason for the administration to believe that the policy is repug- nan,t. Moreover, there will be little cause for students to gripe about rules next fall if they refuse to trouble them- selves with the matter now. On North College This week the Union Inter-residence Council received a student proposal calling for the use of North College as a weekend guest house. The proposal is a sound one: it takes into consideration the problems which such a house- ing arrangement naturally involves and delegates ultimate responsibility to the U .I. C. for managing the program. that would present itself to the islator? * * ' 1 ' * A common and the same group that L>Iea w student body as the view ·Of a natural result of an undue re- change tne nousxng vonc,Y, Hlo.\ seriously concerned follower of spect for law is1 that you may did cnange tne soc1a> run:~ i:\HU ·student activities. I would pro- see a file of soldiers, colonel, that showd change \snow-b1L: pose to advise Mr. T. (most po· captain, corporal, privates, pow- people. litely) that his observations are der-monkeys, and all, marching lVlr. 'f., you are a foolish per- unreasoned, inconsistent, and in admirable order over hill and son. Foolish for cntl<:l:ang immature. dale to the wars, against their one of the basic nghts oi Amel- Mr. T. decries the \longhair- wills, ay, against their common icans, the nght to express one's ed, mustached, goateed faction sense and consciences, which self at all times. Without that of rebels and their credulous makes it very steep marching right your letter coUld never fellows\ who recently sought indeed, and produces a palpita- have been wntten. undergraduate support for their tion of heart. They have no It is a right which has been petition to stop the bombing of doubt that it is a damnable bus- all too .infrequently used on the North Vietnam as one means iness in which they are con- Union campus, and which is just of establishing a realistic pos- cerned; they are all peaceably lately making itself felt. If you sibility for peace in that war- inclined. Now, what are they'? had checked at all into the sit- torn country. Well, if all these Men at all? or small movable nation you would have discov- \rebels\ are \longhaired mus- forts and magazines, at the ser- ered that many of the faculty tached, and goateed,\ then vice of some unscrupulous support the petition to .stop the ----~------~--~--------------------------~------~~-- Problems such as assignment of rooms, maid service and social rules pertaining to the dormitory have been well thought out. And the fact that students have irritated work on this project, even further that they themselves seek to administer the plan and bear the responsibility, in- dicates a serious interest on their part. Adoption of such a plan would be advantageous to many Union students. Inexpensive, nearby facilities would be provided for dates each weekend. Although this would clearly be a boon to students on major weekends, it would be equally useful to the smaller number who -entertain guests on other weekends throughout the year. In the latter case, use of only one section of the dormitory might be necessary. Thursday, March 2, l9h7 ... bombing, and also that many politicians favor stopping it. , Just because the Pres1dent fav- ors the contmuation · of the combmg does not necessarily mean 1t is the dgbt answer. You would also have ·been ' survt1sed to discover that it was 1argely through the Student Councll, the Concordiensis, the Adrmmstratwn and the Trus- -~ tees that the socml rules were changed, And thirdly, you would have been surprised to learn that '} tnere were dJfferent fact10ns than you thought that support- en the change m housmg poucy. Jvll'. '1'., your 1gnorance of the 1 above s1tuatwns is nothmg in companson w1th your 1gnoxance of society. 'vv hat .a person looks nke Is very seldom what he is, for if so, accordmg to you, Ab- ' raham Lmcoln showd be class· ed as a STUD. Sincerely, Neal J. U'OJ;don '69 • Poster's Ri~hts To the .~!:tutor: The llttle person sees the pos- ter. He aoesn't agree with what the poster says. lie removes the poster and g1ggles. lie .is qmte -. .brave. .tiiS I.nends g1gg1e too. i say \a lot of work went into those.\ He says (gallantly) \so what'!\ \come on, 'let's put it • back\ I say. \Go way,\ he say, gettmg gallanter. l say \what 1f 1 went mto yer room, .put yer bed out m the snow.\ \You 1 can't do that\ he say. \That's pnvate property,\ \What about the poster?\ I emplore. \That's pubilc & I don't like it & the civil rights law says I can re- ~. move it if I want.\ Can't argue with that. {Do the civil rights law say anything about protecting pos- • ters?) Steve Radlaeur '70 • • I .. ; Furthermore, in relation to party weekends, the dorm would provide independent students with arrangements formerly available only to fraternity men.. This may com- · pensate in part for the lack of privileges that Union offers independents. With regard to the administration's view here, it seems that the only source of objection might be the con- dition of the facilities. Obviously, North College is in bad . shape. But until last term, the dorm provided housing for many Union students; if new dormitory space were not available, students would still be living there. The rooms· are adequate for overnight guests, and the problem of maid service in the dorm is handled in the proposal. Meet Oldsmobile's new four-wheeled fun ma- chine-swinging 4-4-2! Specs: 400 CID V-8. 115-inch wheelbase. Heavy-duty springs, shock absorbers, shaft. Performance axle. Sway bars, frontandrear. Dual exhausts. Beefed .. upwheels. White-line or wide-oval red-line tires. Buckets. Carpets. Louvered hood. All standard at one modest price. Includes dual master cylinder brake system, full list of important safety features. Can also be equipped with Rocket Rally Pac, UHV ignition, superstock wheels, frontdisc brakes, console, tach, ski rack and the like. That's Olds 4-4-2-sweetest move on rub- ber. Make it your move. At your Olds Dealer's. Concordiensis hopes that the administration will agree to this idea. Since remodeling is not scheduled for the build- ing immediately, there seems to be no practical justifi- cation for denying students the use of the facilities. I OlDS I -~Fa I ~ ENGINEERED FOR EXCITEMENT ••• TORONADO·STYLE! . ·~--·~ .. ·-- Olds thinks of your safety. too. with G!ll·developed energy-absorbing steering column that can compress on severe impact up to 8\4 inches: with four-Way haiard.viarning flasher; outside rcarv.iow mirror; dual master cy.\inder brake system, ,plus many other safety features-a\\ standard! MARK OF EXCEL~ENCE Thursday, M ·Ho< Diff If you J rumor aru our bask€ going to A you were idle chatte happen. The Garn1 play in Alaska Metl Anchorage team, the U and possibl~ from the 8 tournament November ~ 2, to be pre• against ama the way to 1 ternative da ICAC Ma, This y1 points in a and champi The In several imiJ it does no1 however, it ingful conf1 from the pl Mr. Ketz il basic reaso different te home serie: E'or these J ball series : They a , is wrong i1 revenge at chance at · home and I The G: three seaso Coach Evar home ser-ie ,, heartedly. ' teams fron playing scl should take the conferE 1 ested in gc Nal r \ ,. ,,

... many it. , fa:v- the been was the Trus- ~ s were have n that •) poacy. of the , in n looks he is, 1 Ab· . e dass- don '69 1 pos- what the quite • too. · into \so put it • he say, \what .put \ \You \That's 1 about \That's & the can re- ~ law say pos- • aeur '70 • • I * ' . .r.:;,c\ ; ; I! \ Thursday, March 2, 1967 Hoopsters Invited to Alaska; Difficulties May Block Trip If you heard some wild rumor around campus that our basketball team was going to Alaska next year, you were not listening to idle chatter. It just might happen. Last spring Mr. Ketz. was con- •''\\''\\\' by Mr. Frank A. Walsh, chairman of the Committee of the People Program, about the of our basketball to Alaska in late connection with the entennial Celebration. Union was approached be- •<:au:se two of our graduates, William Seward, class of 1:820, and Sheldon Jackson, class of 1855, were very :involved in the early history of the territory. The Garnet team was 1nvited to play in a tournament at Alaska IVlethodist University in Anchorage against the host team, the University of Alaska, and possibly an amateur team from the Soviet Union. The tournament was scheduled for November 30, December 1 and 2, to be preceded by five games against amateur competition on the way to the tournament. Al- ternative dates of January l, 2, and 3 wel'e ~lso offered. The People to People Committee with wh()m •Mr_ Ketz originally corresponded stated that cover- age by Li:fe ::Magazine was pos- sible for the tri:p,. especially if a Soviet team could be contract- ed. The team_s would be ex- pected to he on the same com- petitive le-veJ . as Union with Alaska Methrodi.st enrolling 325 men and the \'University of Alas- ka, 1125, The Soviet team would Mt be a top level Rus- sian team. Ket2 ·fEnihusiastic Mr. Keiz ·received the original suggestio-n wit~ enthusiasm but pointed out that money could be an obstacle to the venture. Such a tri.p w-ould cost about $5,000, which is about $4,000 more than N'lr. Ketz feels our budget c11n ll.andle. Alaska Methodist Umiversity wUI pay us $1,500 fo.r playing in the tournament .eo it appears that to overcome the money problem the sponsorLng group would have to ma.ke t:he arrangements for our preljminary games, which woul:d have to produce a guarantee ()f more than $2;500 unless money C()Uld be obtained from somew.mere else. Even if the probl.ern tOf money could be solved, schediUling could be dif- ficult. The :December dates are Make It Meaningful? This year the. Garnet lost the ICAG basl:eiball title by two· points in a pair of one-point defeats at the ha:mis of St. Lawrence and champion RPI, yet few peo'ple know, or car:e about the ICAC. unacceptable because they would require a 10-day trip just prior to our first term exams. The .January dates are more accept- able but would have to be al- tered slightly. Union will host MIT, Hope; and Lehigh in a Christmas Tournament on De- celnber 28, 29, and 30, so if the Alaska tournament could be . played on January 3, 4, and 5, followed by the exhibition games, the trip would be pos- sible, Decision Soon Mr. Ketz is now waiting for an answer to our questions con- cerning scheduling and money and he stated a decision will be made within the next month or so. The trip has the support of t:he administration and would bring unquestioned value to the college, providing the national publieity that Union College has lacked in recent years. It is because of the definite value that the scheduling and money problems should be overcome. It would be a mistake to pass up sLLch an opportunity which wo11:ld he a definite boost for our hoopsters, the Athletic de- partment, and the entire col- lege. _.,. Mernten _Trip Trinity; End4 Year RPI Hex By SCOTT -MUffiHEAD The Union College swimming team completed its 17th win- ning season in 18 years Friday as it swept past RPI 61-34 at Foote Pool. The victory, Un- ion's third -in its last four out- ings, was the Garnet's first since 1964 against the Engineers and enabled the team to finish with a 5·4-1 recorrl. Union lost the opening med- ley but went on to capture all but two of the ten events that followed en route to its decisive victory. Juniors Dick Corrigan and Fred Fagal swept the 200 yard medley to give the Dutch- men their first Iead 19-14. Un- ion divers Chris Cassels and Harvey Richmond could not de- feat RPI's Bob Rinniger but both upset Bill Boehm to make the score 23-19. RPI was never that close again. Amesbury, Corrigan Win Twice Both Dick Amesbury and Dick Corrigan won two events. Amesbury, an outstanding per- former all season long, was vic- torious in the 200 and 500 yard freestyles, races he has domin- ated all year. His best time of 5:30.2 for the longer distance is the second best mark in Gar- net history, topped only by Bill Shauer's 5:19.7 in 1964. Earlier in the week Union upset Trinity by a slim 50-45 margin despite winning only four first places. The medley relay team, consisting of Jim Mogal, Norm Dovberg, Steve Werlin and Kevin Hoben, nar- rowly defeated Trinity's four- some and then clung tenaciously to its lead for the remainder of the meet, scoring heavily with second and third places . The swimming team ends its season this weekend as twelve swimmers represent the Garnet in the New York State Swim- ming Championships at Syra- cuse. Indoor Track In an intercollegiate track meet at Rochester Saturday, won by Cornell, Garnet pointmakers were: Al Sessoms second, in the 440; Art McCabe, second in the high jump with more misses after having tied for first place at 5'-10;\ Larry McFarlane, third in the 45-yard high hur- dles, and the relay team, com- prised of John Peters, Neil Campman, Neal Gordon, and AI Sessoms, fourth in the 8-lap re- lay. 7 Bowling John O'Kane's 600 triple led Moffett's Liquor Store to a 4-0 victory over Caruso's Tavern in Dutch Classic League action last week. O'Kane who entered :the night with a 154 average rolled games of 199, 201, and 200. Bob Erianne added 525 for third place Moffett's while Glenn Goodrich and Jim Mc- Bride led Caruso's with 540 and 534, respectively. Top's Bar maintained its one point first place lead by taking ·three points £rom Vito's Boys. :behind Al Case's 215-583 and Jim Stratton's 537. Second place Bernie's Mid- HiU Tavern stayed one point behind Top's . J>y taking tJu:ee points from Kelly's Bar With Ken Mevchant's 566 while Ted- dy K's Tavern jumped from sev- enth ,place to fourth by sweep- ·ing four points from last place Sealtest Foods. The Independents have clinch- ed the National League title in intramural bowling. With four .points yet to play the Independ- ents have a 27-1 record, seven points ahead of Theta Delta Chi and Phi Gamma Delta, who ar~ tied for second at 20-8. Ph1 Epsilon Pi holds a slim lead over Delta Chi and Phi Delta Theta in the American League race. All candidates for varsity baseball should report to Alumni Gymnasium on Mon- day, March 6, at 1 P.M. · All candidates for outdoor track should report to the field house on Monday, March 6, at 4:30 P.M. The Independent Collegiate Athletic ~()nference suffers from several important_ restrictions. Lacking a centr~r_information office, it does not rece1ve adequate newspaper ptlblicLty:. In basketball, however its greatest hindrance is scheduling. To produce a mean- ingful conference the number of games would ]Ja.V~ to be increased from the presen~ five to ten. by playing each team home. and home . Mr. Ketz is agamst scheduling of home and llome senes for two basic reasons. He claims that the players wo.uld rather play two different teams than play the same team twice, and that home and · home series are repetitive; if you win one yoUI wiU win the other. E'or these reasons Union has dropped our home and home basket- ball series against RPI and Hamilton in 19~Hl8. Composer wants to know the score on '67 com pads They are fairly good reasons, except for o~e problem. M;r. Ketz , is wrong in both cases. Anyone who saw our .cagers looking for revenge at RPI last week would realize they \9elcomed a second chance at the Engineers. The records in r-eC'elllt years show that home and home series are not repetitive. The Garnet and the Engineers have split tlteir series the past • three seasons while also dividing with Ham.iltmn the past two Yflars. · Coach Evans has stated that he favors the estai>!Lsl\ing of home and home series with ICAC opponents and ~his rep~rter _agrees w)lol.e- heartedly. Such scheduling would requrre the d.roppmg of certrun '-' teams from our basketball schedule, but wha~ do we. gain fr9m playing schools such as Harpur, Drew, and Etng's Pomt? Umon should take the initiative in the ICAC and tllr~ugh basketball make the conference meaningful to :(>layers, sttLdents, and anyone in.ter- 1 ested in go~6d athletic competition. <' . -· - - u ¥'- ... -~ ... ·- = ' . Traditional Natural Shoulder ·Clothing DEAR REB: I'm a well-known composer, and I need a new car. The trouble is, I'm iust too Bizet to pick one out. And what's more, many of the new cars I see are Offen- bach in the garage for repairs. But I do have a good friend who is pleased with his r:~ew '67 Dodge Dart. He was given an excellent deal and Berlioz any money on it. My Bach is to thewaii.Can you help me? LUDWIG DEAR LUDWIG: My advice is that you let yourself Ravel in the enjoy~ ment of driving the sporty, all-new Dart for '67. You'll find its Liszt price is a lot lower than you'd expect. And even though it's longer outside and bigger inside this year, Dart's still an easy car to Handel. ~~~ £,_,... ... [' (]> b )/c. s. i! • ~ 6 ,. Jos. Nusbaum, Inc. 447-451 State 'Stree.t Down Town Schei'Sec:t~dy Here's the swinging, man-sized compact for '67 that's got three B's of lts own: Bold, Brassy and Beaut·iful. Dart has been completely restyled this year, inside and out. It's longer, roomier, more powerful. But still at that snug compact price. Drop in at your nearest Dodge Dealer's and try it outfor yourself. THE IIGII Dodge • CHRYSLER MOTORS CORPORAnDN

WRESTLING Page 1 Concordy Sports VIETNAM PETITION PAGE 3 Grapplers End Great .Season Under Allison Congratulate TheMatmen \We had wanted to win so badly, not just for ourselves but mostly for Coach Amson. As ymt know, this is his last season as wrestHng ·coach, and we wanted to give him his undeteated sea- son.\ Thus, Tom Tripp sllmmed up the hopes and as- pirations of Umon's VVrcstung Team, a team tl:lat saw therr unblemished rccon.t marked w1th a loss at the hands of a strong Colgate team. The con- test was a clo::;e one, cwser than the 18-~ final score mdicated. From the opening whistle, all who attended the match knew that 1t wou1d be a humdmger. ln the iirst three b'Juts, Union grapp1ers Frank D'Antuono, Ron .!annotti, and Jeff .Kurzius lost extremely close <iecJ.:Hull~ that could have gone the other way. A tak.., U<J •>n, a reversal, and nd- mg time cou:td have spei1ed victory for them. At 145 pound class, Tom Tnpp scored an amaz- ing come·from-behind battle to give the Garnet their hrst vwtory. At the 152 and 160 pound classes,. Ret Yelton and Bnan Crandall lost to Colgate's Mike Shapiro and Len Berkey, two of Colgate's best. At 167, Barry Cornwall, who normally wrestles at 177, gave Union its second victory by wrestling the best match of his career. By his drive and determination, Barry was able to gain a close decision. Ken Merz, undefeated in his freshman year, lost in yet another close bout. At heavyweight, AI Baskous, in the most e:x· citing match of the day, decisioned Gene Det· weiler who had earlier in the year defeated the numb~r three ranked wrestler in the nation, The victory brought the partisan crowd to its feet with applause. Continued from Page 1 all his remaining strength, sat out and scored a one point escape to win the squeeket• 4-3. Munno Scores Seventh The freshmen team scored an impressive 24-9 victory over the Colgate frosh, to, close their season w~th a 6·1 recQrd, Bill Munno started things . going, scoring his seventh straight vic- tory with a 4-1 decision. Then Ron Knet2;er, who have all pedormed well for the frosh, each lost close decisions as Colgate moved the score to 9-3, At 152, M11c Biggi won an ·easy 5,0 decision and Chuck Sinno won 10·7 to finish an und:e, feated season of five matches. These two vic- tories moved the score to 9-9, Pinned Qpponent !\ext, powerful Naysim Simon pinned his op- ponent for his seventh straight victory and fifth pm of the season. Steve Taylor scored the quick- est pm of the. day at 177 to win his fourth straight, .11 ~.Uding three falls. To conclude the tnatch, heavyweight Bill Rwyer won by ;forfeit to make the hnal score 24-9. The .frosh should make a big contribution to next year's varsity squad. Undefeated Munno, · Simon, and Sinno are excellent prospects. Ruhl, Ferreras, ·Carpinello, Knetzer, :Biggi, Taylor, and Dwyer also should be in contention for IJOsitions. WANTED l Hoopsters Do'vvned By Hamilton 85-66 Two of .the important reasons for the C3om et's very successful wrestling campaign were Tom T~1pp and Frank o:AnhJ,ano. \\t~fpp emerged victo~ious yesterday to extend his season s mark to 9-0 wh1le D Antuano, 'Who suffered his first defeat, stands 8-1. Cartoonists are needed to create cute and fun· ny cartoons. This little notice is supposed to be \cute and funny'' (according to the News Edi- tor), but if it truly cute and funny, any cartoonist, will not want to join the Concordy because they · will feel that someone on the staff is already cute and funny so why should they join the staff. But that is faulty logic, because just think: if we had a cute and funy cartoonist, he could draw a cute and funy cartoon, -to illustrate this cute and funny notice for a cute and funny cartoonist. Editor's note-Due to the insanity of the au- • · thor of the above notice, we nmv, not only need By LEN SilfiON The Garnet cagers continued their habit of splitting home and home series as they were de- feated by Hamilton last night 85-66, as their rec- ord dropped to 8-ll. a cute and funy cartoonist but someone t() write Co-captain Ron Giancola played his finest game of the campaign, during which he has been con- tinually hampered by injurj.es. He led the Garnet scoring with 19 points, followed by seniors Tom Urbelis and Gl!eg Olson, with 16 and 12 respec· tiyely. Tops for the Continentals was Jim Brooks, who hit for 22. Trailed The Dutchmen trailed 35-32 at intermission, and 44-42 with 14 minutes to play. Hamilton then rattled off nine straight points to give them an eleven point bulge which they never relin- quished. Hamilton hit on 46% from the field, while Union connected on only 36%. They close their season tonight against Trinity. Saturday the frosh cagers defeated Albany Jun· ior College, 78-75, for their ninth victory in twelve outings. The outcome was decided when Barry Katzman, who had seen limited action, converted several clutch free throws in the closing minutes. Pete Garrison led the scoring with 20 tallies, followed by Jim Getman and Craig Carlson, who had 13 each. Jeff Kirkpatrick and Roger Harri- son also hit for double figures with 12 and 11 cute and funny notices. America The Sick? Why now? Why now do the teeny'btoOpiJers emerge from the post-pubescent . dark ,t.o leap and back in wild, whizzing angular lig!Lts and flashes of The Cheetah.? Why now do tbe acid eaters gather together only to fly apart .till the falcon cannot hear the falconer? \¥hy now do thousands loCJk into their souJs and see the real stuff-Hindu chants, socko, music, turn-ons, the real stuff. Why do we get them now, the pill-heads, the freak-outs, thoe psy- chedels, the hippies? Is it our age, our <iestiny that these thousands should grow to mr.illions until we are all one with them? The Sun Something must have done it. Somoetbing must have brought them out. Maybe it:s Cali· fornia. It always starts in California. ::Maybe its the sun. What could it be? People are afraid, The lines of batt.le are beginning to be drawn. \ ... Apd now l[l<:!(es and gentlemen, the main event. In this e:oJ.\ner born in Los Angeles, California, tuned in turned on and dropped out at the age of fif- teen, }>sycalized and freee loved, Zenned rocko'd. and .socko'd up through every Big Beat-Twtled, Stoned, Spectored, Dylaned and SuprEmed in every Disco from Sunset St;ip to the :East V~llage, . wearing the red, brown, green and pmk stnped, dotted and electrified sweatshirt ... And in this corner, well, in this corner, wearing the dark worsted slacks.\ Make ft The country is foolish. It thinks it <:an cater to tb.e group: feed it, advertise it, coddle it, produce for it, and yet not catch it and. assim- ilate it. ImpDssible. The hippies have it all going :for them. They have the color, the sound, the look, the style, and they even have the fun. And they also have something else, the Great Drug, which is a prcblem. With it they can rnaJI:e it, without it, like the generation of beats before them, they die. Will they get it? The struggle could shape up as one of the fiercest battles this country has ever seen. Winner take all. The drug legal and every drugstore, candystore and supermarket selling it, and sooner or later Iilre cigarettes, every school kid trying it somewhere a long the line. But with the butts, tl:ler-e were only two paths, you coughed, cursed, and threw it away, or, you coughed, cursed, and inhaled again till one day in the pit of your stomach you l§e-w yau had to have another. With the sttiftJ,ts different. One gulp and you blow yo-ur ;~fi<I. And if everybody else, like yo~r Mommy· ·<)nd Daddy, and teacher, is blowin their mind, ,Y,ou would have to be crazy not to blow· yours. From then on they've got it. Nothing but the Big Beat from then on. Nothing but mir- rors, lights and sound. Nothing but love and creativity. Nothing but Nirvana. Just think, it might be much better,-or W()rse. • • • • rre~s~p~e~c~ti~v~e~IY~·~~~~~~~~~~~~----~~~~~~~~~~========================~==========================~~========================~========================~ ~ . L. G. BllLFOUR CO. THE RELAX! CARL SORENSEN PLAY BILLIARDS AT BADGES - RINGS • FAVORS JEWELRY Jay LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY • PROGRAMS Billiard Lounge CLUB PINS • KEYS 167 Jay Street MEDALS - TROPHIES Write or Call SPECIAL RATES lraternify Jewelers For Union Men 729 SDutll Crouse Ave. Syracuse, N.Y. 13210 - -. - Simple Spelling Simple Grammar Simple Numbers AN AMAZING NEW CONCEPT IN LANGUAGE THAT WILl MAKE ENGLISH SO MUCH EASIER TO LEARN THAT, 1) more foreigners will learn it. . , 2) English will become the world language. 3) you won't have to learn a foreign language for a Moster's degree. 4) your child will save years of study of silly grammar and spelling. ANZE is revolutinary, useful, necessary, fast, important, Ingenious .. Our world today needs ANZE. Form your own opinion write author lawrence Meissner., Stj Helen's 2, Oregoi't for four of the 28 pages of information, 0 send one dollar for club membership and receive information on ANZE. PEANIJT Peter Pause STORE Restaurant Featuring !535 NoH Street PLANTERS HOT ROASjED 346-9278 PEANUTS Nutmeats from ell and ()Ver FINE FOOD ·- - the W()rld. 406 STATE ST. Reasonable Prices 135 ERIE BOULEVARD BQulevard Bowl 32 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours .Deil-y - SNACII< BAR ON PRUIIISES EASTE·RN AVENUE ~ . PIZZERIA UNCLE 860 Eas~ern Ave. CONCORD¥ WE DELIVER WANTS • PIZZA YOll • PHONE 393-0870 '. ~' DEWITT'S • Cafeteria and Tap Room • Fine Food and legal Beverages • I J 8_- 120 JAY STREET ~· t t ••• + ••• 6 6 •_., f 6 + 4. f 4 ••• A. f + 6. ,6 + +. 6 A+ .... 6 4 6 4 .~ ,- s Vol.. 96 - LS1 Tal To Saturday, Society o! i a Symposiu l.Jr. ~~·Ja u fcssor of 'e:·s:ty .S~h s:dcr the c and ].Jetson ehanged an. and c.asu .l. . \nother lis, Ph.D., As>ociat.on m.nistraton U ni n~vsity the social lege commt ative 'to U should' net frcm their '\trip\ witt Also, Mro ory Agent Abuse Con ministratior behlnd law and their the SIJread Dr. Davi~ atry, Austc bridge, iVIas cent experil in the fie:ds a11d ~ psychiatric The last LSD volunt April of 1 rr.ent has use of lyser amine, chen be n:ade .. r in college ' Saturday early propo a psychedel R.P.I. Lear began l:lis tc but in 1!::6~ news of his and contro\ experiment~ dents hegar cationa: cir The dismis~ tation so th the \mart through:ut This _psyc a wide vari1 the issues • use. Lately t'ed on the college carr. sues, speak the contro\ to explain 1 Eating, ir as small 1 1. 280,000 0 toms ratrgin tortion and perception t vio:ence, su: These elfec and var):!_n~ person, ·n.'f~ hours, 'ili<f-: drug :::.~·­ . ~~ U1 B3 The Offic• ity has appi to Union Co ward Bounc at assisting <~< prived high form up to tential. The June 27 to Union wa ' -·selected ou1 anp:ications there will Bound Proje last yel!,r. N · · 19 of this : Patticipan inc:ude dep: bur Lynch 1 Troy HighS in Sebeuect High School # Un The instr staff' will be Union Col 1 • Union men ! will serve LawrenC!e J. to Students,

scored 24-9 their started vic- as decision an und:e, two vic- his op- and fifth quick· straight, e match, to make bution to Munno, · Ruhl, and l and fun- to be ews Edi- they • · already the staff. if we draw cute the au- • · need t() write the or, till :~n:ti ,Y,OU but mir· and • • • • • • 'f .... ¥' • • • •• , •• t.l' IRC Speakers Page3 Vol.. 96 - No. 20 LSD Panel Take.s Trip To C.alllpus Saturday, April 8, The Pvc-iV1edica'l Society o! Union Col:ege wid sponsor a Syrnposiu:tn on LSD. !Jr. ~~·Ja w'lm Bowers, Assistant Pro- fessor of 1-'S.Y\ h:atry at Yale Uni- \ e:·s:ty .S~hool of Medicine, will con- s:dcr the effects of LSD on the mind and ].Jetson:llity, and how these are ehanged and affected by Lhe persistant and c.asu.l. usc of the drug. . \nether speaker, l\~rs. Helen Now- lis, Ph.D., Director of the National' .'\s>oeiat.on of Student Persona! Ad· m.nistrators, and Dean of Students, UniH~Vs!tY of Roc;.4.e.~t.err will re:ate the SOCial CODS€qUences to che co'- Jege community and offer an \Altern- ative ·~o LSD,\ a view why students should' net try to find an \escape\ frcm their surroundings by taking a \trip\ with: LSD. Also, Mrs. Larry Kerncss, Supervis- ory Agent .of the Bureau of Drug Abuse Control, Food and Drug Ad· ministration, will deal with the theory behlnd law enforcement techniques and their effectiveness in curbing the spread of the use of LSD. Dr. David Seil, Fel'ow in Psychi· a try, Austen Riggs Center, Stock- bridge, iVIassachusetts, will review re· cent experiments that have been d'cne in the \consciousness-expanding\ fie:ds a11d clinical uses of LSD with psychiatric patients. The last licensed manufacturer of LSD voluntari1y ceased production in April of 1966. 1'he federal govern- rr.ent has taken steps to wt b the use of lysergic acid and lysergic acid amine, che11'icals from which LSD can be n:ade. L&D has been synthesized in college chemistry laboratories. Saturday night Timothy Leary, early proponent of the use of LSD as a psychedelic drug, will be hosted at R.P.I. Leary, a Berkeley graduate, began his teaching career at Harvard, but in 1!::63 his tenure ceased when news of his radical teaching methods and controversial research, including experimentation with drugs on stu- dents began spreading to many edu- cationa: cir~:es around the country . The dismis~al raised Dr. Leary's repu- tation so that now he is heralded as the \martyr\ Qf the movement through:ut th~ country. This _psychedelic drug has aroused a wide variety of opinions becaw.1e of the issues and facts surrounding its use. Lately this controversy has set- t'ed on the abuse of this drug on college campuses. To clarify the is- sues, speakers directly invo:ved in the controversy have been invited to explain their positions. Eating, inhaling, or injecting even as small an amount of LSD as 1 · 280,000 of an ounce causes symp- toms :ratrging from hallucination dis- tortion and intensification of sensory perception te panic, impulses towards vio:ence, suicidal !lets, and psychosis. These ~lfects, totally unpredictable and val'):!,ng wide:y. from person to person, _Jl.'fl\¥ last f:r;om eight to ten hours, 'mlhEfc·ur without taking the drug. ~--;:::- Piece On Earth Page 5 Founded at Union College 1877 SCHENECTADY, NE'AI YORI<, THURSDAY, MARCH 30, 1967 PRICE 15 CENTS Effcc:·s of LSD on tl1e mind will be considered by -the ponel. IDOL ·N-ames Fi~el: .Freshman To Serwe Magazine As Editor Gary Fidel, a freshman liberal arts major, has been selected editor· of the IDOL, the campus literary maga. zine. Marc Rubins, a junior psychol- ogy major and the only candidate for business manager, was selected for that post. The other candidates for editor were H. Nat Stevens and Carl Rosenstock. Fidel will assume editor- ial control for the next isue, due to be published in mid-May. Don Abood, the outgoing editor of the IDOL, stated that the senior board felt Fidel was best qualified on the basis of merit. The board sincerely felt that he had the ability to do the best job. They felt he had the most positive view on how the literary and other arts could be combined. In his application for editor; Fidel stated the IDOL should not pretend to be more than a porfolio of student art, not pretending to be an established magazine but should represent every- one who was willing to work, within limits. Deadline Fidel stated that there will be no basic changes .in the IDOL and he will try to put in as much material as possible. He also announced the dead- line for the May issue has been moved to April -1. He is looking for short stories, sketches, poetry, photos, line drawings and painting for this issue. Rosenstock and Stevens will serve as staff editors. Dan.e Gleason, John Shepard, Dean ·Hoffman and Stuart Shapiro are some of the staff. In addition to working for the IDOL, Fidel has taken part in The Alchemist, The Dock Brief and will appear in Mother Coumge. Four Seniors Gain Wilson Fellowships 'Four Cnion College seniors - the largest delegation in recent years - havE 'V()n coveted Woodrow Wilson Fellol'\•ships for graduate study, the Woodr-ow Wilson Foundation announc- ed l\la.r.eh 10. Three others won hon· orble mentions. Tile winners were: . L:~urence B. Briskman, a philosophy maJ~r from the Bronx; Robert W. Milder-, an English major from Gar- den City, N.Y.; Ronald A. Powell, a physics major from Hicksville, N. Y.; and Paul S. Sherwin, also an English maj(}r. from Manhasset, N. Y. Cl!osen from among 13,596 nomi- nee for their promise as \valuab ~e members of the academic profession,\ they wiU receive full tuition and fees for ~yea.r of graduate education, plus a $Z;OOO living stipend and allowances for <ie]Jendents. In all, 1,258 won fel- lowshi]Js nationally. A111ong the 1,806 runners-up, who have been especially commended to graduate schools for institutional grants, were Carl E. Feigenbaum of Bearsv-ille, N. Y., a political science majm specializing in East Asian stud· ies; Michael A. Moffa '66 of Walling- ford, Conn .• a philo$ophy student: and Top Papers Hire Editors Tw<a former editors of Concord- iensis, both seniors, will work this sununer in the editorial de:part- ments.()f the nation's two top news- paper-s. Barry- N'e;vman will be an intern at the Ne-w York Times, and :Rob· ert Stolzberg has won a position as a reporter trainee at The Wash· ingto:n Fost. Ne .... vman, who was edit()r-in-chief of <J~nC<Jrdiensis in 1965, was a re- portel.' l.ast summer for The Albany TirnesUnien. Stolzberg ended his ediiorial term at Concordiensis in January-, and is a staff writer at the ~dtenectady Union-Star. .Jos~pb A. Mann Jr., present edi- tor of the student newspaper, an- nounced yesterday that any stu- dent interested in a career writ- ing for either the New York Times or Tbe Washington Post may re- · por-t t:o the Concordiensis office at 7:S.O IJ.LP, on any Tu~sday :for inten· siv~ ]lreparat.on. Dominic L. :Poccia of Utica, N. Y., a chemistry major. Powell io.tends to use his fellow- ship either at the California 'Institute of Technology or at Princeton to ~tudy theorettca l physics. He is grad- uating this year after only three years at Union without ever having at- tended summel\ school He gained the year by means of advanced place. ment and overloaded course sched- ules. Powell has a perfect record here. never having received any grade but A in a rourse. Last summer, he worked for the Atomic Ener,gy Corn· m:~\ ''1 d,.,im! research in low tern· perature physics. · • Mi!der \\'ill prebably use his fellow- ship at Har{ard. He spent one semes- ter rf last :year at the University of ~u~~r-x. This surnmer, he plans a trip to Europe. Last summer, he worked a~ a good-humor man. He has been a Nett Scholar and is a member of the Hale Club. He plans to specia:ize in modern English and American litera- ture. Sherwin served as literary and later features editor of Concordiensis and as poetry editor of the Idol. He has received the Yudis Prize for creative writing. He is also a member of the Moving Finger and the Hale C'lub. He plans to specia 1 ize in Renaissance Etc1·ature at e:ther Harvard or Yale graduate school. Briskman studied last year at the London School of Economics, wher~:: he hopes to return to do graduate work. If not, will do his graduate work at Princeton. His speeialty is the Philosophy of science. Sir Popper at the London School interested him in this field. While at L.S.E., he founded the High Table, a dormitory newspaper. At.Union he is a member of th~ H:ale Club and a phUosophy grant-m-aid. Pollock J\_pproves North College W otnen's Hotel By. SEA.N REMARK In res-onse to the request of the Un'on Inter-residence Council, Dean 0. E. Pol·ock approved the proposal for the use of North Col :ege on week- ends for the hou<>ing of woman Puest->. It wil1 open April 10. President Mike l\Iicha\ski anncun~ed the manner in \- hith the guest house will be main- l<.:ined. The cost to each student using the raci'ity will \)e $5.00, :payab:e upon n'<:.:>rvation in the Student Activities Office, be it for either one or two nights. Earh man -must supply a pil:ow and blanket fer his date's use. Non-affiliates Have Preference l\on-aiiiliated men will have flrst preference fer the use of this facility, providing they make their reserva- tions the Friday a week before the weekend in question. Affiliated men (including pledges) living in dormi- tories have the !lext priority and must exercise it by tile preceding Monday . Resenations to the entire college crrrn un'ty will close the Wednesday rreceding each weekend. The U.I.C. will net operate the North Col1ege facility c.n any weekend that less than sa men make reservations. A guest's va1uabl~~i may be checked wah the social hostess and/or the U.l.C. n:ember. Social regutations have been set for the guest house: 1. l':o won en will be housed on the first floor. 2. No men ever will be al:owed above the first floor. - 3. A U.I.C.. rrember will stay on the first floor of each section being used through the ~t.ght to see that there are no inc:dents that wou:d be err.barrassing to the eol'ege or the \\·omen guests. 4. A social hostes~. will be em- p:oyed. · 5 .. The doors will be closed at 3:30 A.M. 6. The £ uest home will net open before 4:30 P.M. on any given Fri- day nor c·ose after 1:30 P.l'II the fol'owing Sunday. The .f hysical condition of North Col egc has caused the U.I..C. some concern. However, a maintenance crew Ins wcrked on the south sec- tion, \hich will be the first section {)pened. Son:e of. the col:e ~e·s maids are being employed to make beds and dean up on Hondays. The spring climate .will h'>pefully cause less prob- !cn,s With res~cct to th:) buAidino's d.lapidated co.ndition. \' Surf's Up For ~ ............. - .. ShutdoWn U.Co Union Awarded Upward Bound Grant T~e Beach Boys, one of America'.; !eadmg recordin~ groups, will appear In concert at Umon College on April 29. The Beach Boys concert, the first half of a combined effort by the Clas; of 1967 and the Glass of 1953 to re:- place what was formerly Senior Week- end and Spring Weekend, will b-.! followed by Otis Reddin5 a.IId Th} B'ues Project on the weekend of May 12, 13. By ALAN KLEIN The Office of Economic Opportun- ity has approved a grant of $54,567 to Union College to conduct an \Up· ward Bound\ program which aims at assisting socio-economically de- <~< prived high sch!JOl students t<? per- form up to therr full acadelUlc po- tential. The program will run from June 27 to the midd!e of August. Union was one of the 12 colleges ' -·selected out of 125 that submitted anp:ications for grants. This year there will be about 225 Upward Bound Projects as C()mpared with 208 last yel!,r. New York state will have · - 19 of this summer's programs. Patticipants in the program will inc:ude deprived students from Wil- bur Lynch High School in Rotterdam, Troy High School, Linton High School in Schenectady, and 1.\ffont Pleasant High School, also in Sthenec~ady. # UniQn Involvement The instructional and counseling staff will be drawn heavily from the Uni.on · College COil1munity. Four • Union men and four Skidn:ore women will serve as student counselors. Lawrenee J. Wertz, Union's Counselor to Students, will serve as psychologist for the project. William McDonald will conduct a motion picture work- shop; Hugh Allen Wilson, a music workshop, and Prof. Leonard B. C~ark will be a comultant in biology. Ef- forts are under way to involve the Volunteers for International Tech- nical Assistance in the project. John P. Terry, Director of Student Aid, will serve as Project Director. Terry described the purpose of the rrogram: \To take youno. kids from an economically deprived background who have the :t:otential to do good sehool' work but are not performing up to potentia1 and to bring them up to 'hthat they can do . Successful Last Summer He stated that the Upward Bound programs conducted last summer were very successful. The drop-out rate was less than 3',t,.. He cited a frequent prob'em with conservative high school administrations which do not support the Upward Bound pro- gram, but said he has gotten ver:y good cooperation from the high schools involved in the Union pro· gram . Forty students, both male and fe· male will participate in the program Students suc;h as these will study at Union !!-lis summer. this Slimmer. They will all have fin- ished the tenth grade. These forty will r-Eturn the following summer alon~ 'With forty more new students. During- .the school year the partici- Pants 'Will meet on Saturday morn- ings. Efforts will be made to assist the '. rarticipants .11 cboos:ng and obtaining admission to colleges. Union has made a coh1mitment to accept several cf the boys in the program. Union stttdents wishing to s~rve as counscloi s f{}r the Upwal d Bound Program can (Jbtain applications from the Student A.ctivitics Office. Dual W eehmd Ticket For the first time one ticket will be so:d for the two weekend: \Juniot· Senior Festival of Entertainment.\ A dual-weekend ccuple ticket, available to Union students only, will cos. $12 00, or two dol' ars per person pe: concert. Single tickets will be soi<.l Pn·y at the door and off campus for the Beach Boys con::mt and wd cos. $3.00. The individua' ti()ket prices have not as yet been deterwined fo.· the Redding and B·ues Project con- certs. The Beach Boys will perform in tho Field Home with three other groups. the Buckinghams, the Casinos, and Jim and Jean. Comedian Dave Frye\ has also been signed for the April 21 show. The concerts on May 12 and 13 will be held in M:err:orial Chapel.

2 Berger To Teach ./;tnd Study In Far East John Berger, a junior at Union C()l· lege, will be sptnding this comirlg summer in Japan, under the auspices of the Japan Society and the English Language Educational Coundl in Tokyo. The society seeks to inf()l'Ill Americans about Japanese cultur~. He will be improving the pronumi.a- tion of Japanese instructors of English, who have had six to eight years of English themselves. 'J1h.is will be done primarily by using the repetition of words, sentences, etc. Although Berger has no knowledge of Japanese, and needs none fbr .h.is job, he intends to learn enough uf the language to enable him to corn· municate at a minirr,um level. He wiH arrive, after flying across the Pacific at the expense of the Japan Societ:y, on july 1. He has been given some free time before he is to report to Tokyo. He will be sent to 'two locations in Japan. He will work on Japan's most southern island, Kyushu and later somewhere on Japan's west- ern coast. His room, board, and travel· ling expenses are all being paid f<>r by the ELEC. In addition he will receive $15 a day while working. Importance of Personality attemj:ting to learn some Japanese. He has already taken two courses in Japanese history. After his stay in Japan, he would like to visit Taiwan and South Korea. He believes traveling to be an integral part of the educational process, .since it helps one understand himself and what he has studied. Sailing T earn Formell: Union College has joined the Middle Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing As. sociation and is a·ready schedu~ed for three meets this spring. Anyone with sailing experience interested in joi:n· ing, contact Bob Gill at Alpha Delta Phi (346-9688), or come to the tneet· ing this Monday at 4:30 in Bailey IIall room 305. Encampment ·for Citizenship Alartn Bells Residents Res:dents in Davidson Hall were rudely awakened last Tuesday night as the fire alarm rang for aprrox:- mate'y thirty minutes: The disturb· an~e occurred at 4:35 A.M., and the Resident Advisers immediately woke any still wcu~d-be sleepers. According to Armcn Manasar, a Rps'dcnt Adviser, the a' arrrs were set ofT because of su)'er-heated steam es- caping from a \·a·ve in the basement of the North Wing. As son·rone else noted, the stca!\\line under the living roc m of Beta Theta Pi was in danger of ex;l'odin:;. Another Resident Adv·iser, John Werley, called a policeman who ar- rived at about 4.45 A.M., hut he could only temporarily silence the a~arm. It took Mr. Laird, who arrived soon after, to finish the j!Jb. Student reaction to the false alarm was varied. SuC'h comments as \Is there a fire?\ were heard. But every one agreed with one student who said \I'd rather burn than get up at 4 A.M. Thursday, March 30, 1967 Students Favor Draft Prefer Alternatives· Polls of college and university stu- dent opinion regarding the Dl'aft were. released today by the United States National Student Association (USNSA). This weekend in Wash- ington, D. C. the results win be pre- sented to a closed,door conference of leaders from a wide variety of youth and student organizations who will be looking for a unified support for an alternative to the present Selective Service System. \The results of campus-wide refer- enda on over twenty campuses were stringently consistent,\ announced Mr. Eugene Groves, President of USNSA. ... Move than 90 percent of Ameri- can students feel that a nation can be justified in conscripting its citizens into the military. ... More than 70 pe:rcent of Ameri- can students are not satisfied with the present Selective .Serv- ice System. . . . More than 70 .percent of Ameri- can students would prefer to have non-military service, e.g. Peace Corps, VISTA, Teachers Corps, as an equal alternative to military service. Summary of Referenda on the Draft Is a nation ever justified in con- scripting its cit-izens into military service? %Yes Goucher ........................ 93 San Francisco College for Women................ 96 Westmar College ........ 99 Mercyhurst College...... 99 %No 7 4 1 1 College of Wooster...... 88 Bellarmine .................... 98 Wartburg College ........ 95 Edgewo:.d College of the Sacred Heart...... 98 Stetson Co1!ege ............ 90 Simmons College ........ 93 Valparaiso .................... 74 Mount St. Mary's ........ 91 Harvard University 12 2 5 2 10 7 26 9 (graduate school) .... 91 9 'Brown University ........ 79 21 Markuette University.. 92 8 'BenningtoN .................. 81 19 Do you feel that rank in class should be a criterion for deferment of coUeg3 students (assuming an:y are deferred)? % Yes %No College of Wooster ... 50 50 BeJlarmine ------------------ 61 39 Wartburg College ..... , .. '52 48 Stetson UNiversity ...... 52 48 Simmons ----·················· 4:0 60 Valparaiso Universtty 54 46 Mount St Mary's Colle,.e ------················ 55 45 North Park College 57 43 University of Michigan 34 66 City College of New York . ............... 32 68 Western Reserve ........ 31 69 Harvard University (graduate school) .. 52 48 Harvard University I undergraduate) .... 28 72 Brooklyn College 51 49 Marquette University 44 56 Bennington . ................. 24 76 Thursday, 'N t· ·Fair. The Fai in&\ in Alba , , pargn for co The Stu of reducing to underwdt Constitution: Petition among stude An early sa: All pub 'l .. \ Island have A voim Patey, 42, fr campus in t .r~ .. tures for pr. The act: to give supt: Winner, a J .,. casions duri groups oppo Winner a lower voti •' 1 . of 11-7. ! A. Counc concedes th.1 19-year-old : that .people : Rosener 1 , political viev · ' The vote, he viduals whos day, Winner 1 tion among Berger, who has taken several courses in the East Asian area, dis· covered the opportunity to work in Japan, through Donald Thurston, an instructor in the history department and also a rr.ember of the Japan Society. Both Thurston and Ber-ger believe that the strong interest, which he demonstrated, was the key to get· ting the position. Thurston also be· lieves that John's personality was also instrumental. He stated: \There are certain aspects of John's personality which the Japanese will respond. tG favorab:y.\ Thurston hopes to be able to send a Union College student to Japan in each of the coming years. Partial and full scholarship are available for public affairs-minded students interested in attending six- week EncamJ,ment for Citizenship this summer, in New York City -or on a mountainside in Puerto Rico. NEWS BRIEFS ~ \ . , . the vote, r.e1 In the S ing a lower in committe4 Senator ing the bipa chester, say: Berger, who spent last sumiUer in Europe, likes to travel. He be- lieves that \traveling is the best education you can possibly have.\ Besides si£htseeing, Berger plans to Yisit. in particular, the Noh Drama, the Kubuki Theater, the lliro- shima Peace Festival, and even some Geisha houses. He is especially dcs'rous to becon:e acquainted with traditional Japanese culture. Alth()U£h Japan has been greatly industrialized and v. esternized in past decades, he feels that traditional mores are still dominant in the Japanese way of :life. He thinks it important for Americans to know about Asia, since it is, a.nd will increasingly be, a strategic area in the world. He also is interestecl in finding out what the Japanese people think of Americans. Preparing to Teach In the meanwhi!e, he is preparing himself to teach English and is a !so Wants Pictures Have you any pictures or anecdotes which might be of general interest? If you would like to share some ex:- perience, the yearbook may be an ideal means. Please submit ~my ma- terials to the Garnet mailbox in the Old Gym Hall. Label all materials carefully so that they may be re- turned '. ' Problems of poverty, civil righ.ts and developing nations are examined and discussed in the New York and Puert0 Rico Encampments, by young men and women of all racial, religi- om, ethnic and economic back- grounds, many nationalities, and \ aried political views. A staff of a dozen teachers and social scientists at each site inc'udes returned Pea-ce Corps Volunteers. Varied Activities Encampment activities include workshops on volunteer tutoring, cmr.munity development, housiilg and school integration, world affairs and other subjects, as well as 'lec- tures, films, discussion groups and fie:d trips. Two days a week will be devoted to community service work in low-income areas. The New York Encampment, to be he:d July 2-August 12 on the 15-acre campus of the Fieldston School, 45 minutes from midtown Manhattan. will focus on urban area problems and on world affairs. The Inter-Amer- ican Encampent, drawing participants from throughout the Americas, will be held June 25-August 5, on the mountain El Yunque, in Luguillo National Forest, Puerto Rico. Its pro- gram emphasis will be on commu!l~ty development and human rights in the Americas. The age range for both Encamp- ments is 17 through 21. Cost of boa:rd, room and tuition for the six weeks, in either location, is $500; full and partial scholarships are available on the basis of need. (Round trip air coach. New York-Puerto Rico, is $121.50.) Applications are available from the Encamrment for Citizensh.ip, Inc.; 2 West 64th Street, New York City 10023 Snowballs Friday, March 17, marked the close of winter term classes and about 100 members of the class of 1970 cele- brated the event with a full-blown snowball fight. The above freezing weather encouraged a myraid selec- tion of uniforms as the battlers stormed back and forth across the Cow Pasture. The conflict was instigated by a small group of West College residents in the narr:e of class camaradarie. They shouted up to their West College mates after having attacked Richmond House themselves. The battle shifted back and forth in three waves as reinforcements (hanged the balance of power constantly. A major develop- rr.ent was an €ntente between the two groups and the formation of an allied force that proceede<l against South Col!ege. However they were unable to reuse any force willing to oppose them. Battled With Frats From there, the battle moved towards its final stages as the cmr- bined freshman forces moved against the fraternities of D U, Psi U, and Chi Psi. They met stiff oppos:t:on and the battle rage<l fiercely as the C.F.F. n:oved from frat fort to frat fort, devastating each in turn. The Great Snowball Fight was just reach- ing its peak when the dinner hour's approach led to a de facto truce. No casualties or damage were reported. Frosh Editor Students interested in applying for the pos:tion of Ed.tor of the Fresh- man Reccrd may G btain application forms from Mrs. l\iara in Student Activities. Applications must be re- turned to Mr. Jchnson in the Admis- s:ons Office by April '7th. The selec- tion of the editor will be made and RELAX! Let the lager freely flow. Down to Louis', let us go, announced the following week. The selection will be based on the fol- lowing criteria: the applicant being a junior or senior, his past experience in publications, his academic perform- ance, his capacity and willingness to devcte the requisite amount of time. Dedication Fox House and Davidson House, ~he two new residence units on Achilles Field, were formally dedicated at an informal dinner at Beta Theta Pi in Davidson on March 8. The buildings are named for Dixon Ryan Fox, President from 1934 to 1945, and Carter Davidson, President from 1946 to 1965~ Special guests at the dinner in- cluded Mrs. Davidson, who now lives in Schenectady, and two sons of the late Dr. Fox, Herbert, of Los Angeles, and Harold, of Oklaholl'a City. Plaques to be affixed in the bui:d. ings were unveiled. Also attending were student<;, fac- u'ty, and administrative of!kers. Pre-Meds All students v·ho wish to enter 1\Iedical or Dental School in 1968, and who will appty in the Fall of 1967, should meet with Professor Clark on Thursday, April 6th, 11:30 a.m. in Room 201, Biology Laboratory. Classified The Concordiensis is now accepting classified advertisements. All ads sub- mitted must have a minimum of three lines. A line consists of from 30 to 35 characters per line. The charge The PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP wiU be 25c per line. Ads must be submitted to the editors by Tuesday at 7:30. Lectures & Concerts Charles Olton, Instructor in History, will meet with students interested in working with the lectures and con- certs committee at 4:30 Tuesday 1 April 14th in room 113 of the Psycnology building. This committee is respon- sible for selecting convocation speak- ers at Union. Fall Registration ) l .t~ I II ·~ Theodore Sc declared his Some le tion is a me Kennedy. Paters()r with Robert Javits has s College, Democr1 measure, .ac• from commi: ' . 11 Legislat~ \()n the aile~ The Pl>t< ' l. according to ~I '!''goes on rec4 \. leadership '' Pre-registration materials for 1967- 68 will be available in t}le Office of ~t I 4 The Fai: the Registrar, Room 2, Administration ializing reso Building, beginning Wednesday, April lieves the r4 19th. Students are urged to secure ship for bur promptly their copy of these materials. ) f 1 '.rA call: f Students who do not plan to return ,c;. 1 tf to Union next fall, except for gradu· pav.~J¥! P a 01 ating. seniors, should also report. . . .. ;:!Roughly state!s rollS Each student will receive a list ·of ' ! ' , The co11 the courses to be offered at Union in \ · and the cal 1967-68, as well as a Course Elections · ;\almost ine' sheet and detailed instructions for age, Paley t sophrr.ores and juniors are required · to have their lists of next year's courses tj · ' year~fJ !:ea~ in by April 28th, while freshmen are ~' required to return their lists of 1967- ~~;ip~~omnpa,!~.- 68 courses not later than May 5th,. 'Y Students are urged to return their ,1 , Senator 1' Course Elections sheets as soon as he says, are possible. A fine will be imposed on The le~ those who miss the two deadlines the 18-20 ag mentioned above. . ..; the vast ma Present sophomores and · juniors ) Paterso meet with their adviser between April the comrnu1 20th and 28th. Present freshmen are qualified to schedu'.ed to see their new Major Ad- he believes. viser from May 1st to the 5th. Some Figures departments may announce special Bureau sho1 meetings for advising students about than any nt next year's course elections.· Please Committee , be alert for such announcements. ... civics course ~· i f y T '¥' \T\,... THE PEANUT STORE PLAY BILLIARDS AT JAY BILLIARD LOUNGE A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere 262 Saratoga Road MAYFAIR SHOPPING CENTER FERRO PHARMACY 575 Nott Street Schenectady, N. Y. Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS end Nutmeats from all over , the world. 406 STATE ST. 167 Jay Street or FAMILY BILLIARDS 1615 Union Street Special 1tudent rates RITZ RESTAURANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featuring - HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS, CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Parties - Try Our loweribrau On Tap - Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open Daily except Mondays NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1 895 - Corner 266 State end Erie Blvd. Food Unexcelled in This Area For reservations phone FR 4-8917 135 ERIE BOULEVARD Boulevard Bowl 3 2 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 H<>urs Daily --- SNACK BAR ON' PREMISES AI the Sign of the Red Neon Pipe TUES. thru SAT.7 to 9 P.M. THURS. and FRI.: 7 to 9 PM SCOTIA, N. Y. Phone 399-1630 FR 7-0510 • ~I FOUNTAIN SERVICE LUIGI'S .RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian .. Anterican Food 1125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady Dl 6-9744 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks end Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar I I

1967 12 2 5 2 10 7 26 9 9 21 8 19 class are %No 50 39 48 48 60 46 45 43 66 68 69 48 72 49 56 76 be istory, in con- ology espon- speak- 1967- of secure return gradu· list of in for are 1967· 5th.. their as on ad lines juniors April are jor Ad- Some special about Please Bar Thursday, 'March 30, 1967 t· 3 · Fair Franchise Committee Election Procedu·re U.S. Teachers Protest War In Southeast Asia •.J Pushes Petition Drive :By BAlmY NEWMAN . :rhe Fair Franchi~e Committee, a New York City group lobby- In&\ m Albany ~or a tower state voting age, is expanding its cam- ' , pa1gn for collegiate SUJlp-ort to the Capital District. The Student Coun~il at Union went on record March 7 in favor of reducin~ the legal v011tin~ age to 18. lt was the first upstate group to un?enyute the const:Itutwnal change, which will be an issue at the Constitutional Convention scheduled to begin early next month. · 4 Petitions calling J:or a~tion at the convention are circulating among students .at Umcm, Siena, RP.I., Albany State and Skidmore. An early samphng at lJnion showed 90 signatures. All public and Pl'i\V~te colleges in New York City and on Long I[ . \ Island have been orga:mzed, along with numerous high schools. . A volunteer aide <()f the Fair Franehise Committee, Henry Pa'ley, 4~, from Halfmoon, says the group ·expects to canvass every campus m the state and· gather \several hundred thousand\ signa- tures for presentation to the <lonvention. r· :r\he action by the St~de:t?-t Council is the first in several years to giVe suppor.t to the objectives of any student committee. Robert Wir;tner, a ,.:runior reprEsentative on the Council, recalls several oc- . 'r caswns durmg the past t\vo years wh.en endorsement was refused . groups opposing American policy in Vietnam. ,, : ' . Winner attributes the move to the unusually broad support for a lower voting age Oil:. ·campus. The resolution carried by a vote of 11·7. ! Not Mature A Council member who cast a negative ballot, Richard Rosener rtc: concedes that most Uaio n students favor a lower veting age, Th~ 19-year-old ~ophomore .f:rorn Nassau County nevertheless believes that .people m the 18-2() bracket are not sufficiently mature to vote. Rosener contends tt.at the younger .person is unstable in his 1 . political views, al~ernating his position radically \from year to year.\ ' The vote, he believes, should be granted only to those older indi- viduals. whose views are less capricious. In council debate last Tues- day, Wmner countered· taese arguments, saying the level of informa- l tion among 18-year-old.s is high enough today to qualify them for ~~ , . the vote, r.egard:ess of how frequently their positions may alter. In the State Legislature, memorializing resolutions recommend- jug a lo'Yer voting age to .the Constitutional Conventio~, are locked m committees of the Senate and Assembly. Senator Basil Pat~rson, a Harlem Democrat who is co-sponsor- ing the bipartisan actiooll with Republican 'Thomas Leverne of Ro- chester, says the res{)<luti()n may have been hurt recently when Theodore Sorensen, a close friend of Senator Robert F Kennedy declared his .support fo::r it. · ' _ ~orne legislators, F.aterson believes; may think the age reduc- tion IS a means of glvi!lg the youth v:ote to the popular Senator Kennedy. } l ·' Bobby Kennedy I . Paterson discounts the charge, insisting \this has nothing to do witl_:l Robert Kennedy.\ New York~s Republican Senator Jacob Jav1ts has supported the 18 year-old vote in a speech at' Hunter College, ji ' ~ ' Democratic ~sseml>ly Speaker Anthonr J. Travia supports the measure, a<;cordi!lg to Mr. Kottler, and IS attempting to free it from committee m the A.ssembly. 11 Legislators who oEJject to the lower age, Kottler says, do so \on the alleged ground of immaturity.\ T~e potential struggle fo:t: the age reduction at the convention, ' accordmg to He!J.ry Paley, will be toned down if the Legislature ~I ~·goes on . reco.rd m supoport of the change. The present legislative \. leadership w1ll also he:ad .the convention. T nitial Test :)! . 4 . • .The Fair F_ranchjs~ 9?mmittee, therefore, considers the memor- I~lizmg resolutwn_ an Initial test of conventiOn strength. Paley be- lleyes the re~olut.IO!!- h:as st~ong support, and criticizes the leader- shiJ? for burymg It 111 committee. }~ • ,f;t can for droppin.g the voting age was included in both major pav.~?i platforms last NovEmber. · .(:,¥toughly_ a millioll rn~r~ eligible voters will be added to the state 1 s rolls 1f the chaage Is mcorporated in the new cohstitution. ! I , The cont;ern of yo.utlls _for. the conduct of the Vietnamese war, \ and the callmg- of a ~o:nstituhonal convention this year made it ··almost inevit~ble\ that agitation would develop for a lower voting i age, Paley believes. tj . , The Fair Franehis.e <:omrnittee, founded by John Conroy a 27- year-old N!'lw Yorker \Nilo has invested several thousand doliars in the. c~mpaiJ{n; bases nuch of its publicity on the maxim \No Con- scnptlon Wttnout Representation.\ , Senator Paterson di:sagrees with the slogan. Voting and fightinrr he says, are two vastly- d:ifrerent things, not to be equated. \'' The legislator d!Je:s agree wit~ ~he committee's contention that the 18-20 ag~ g!oup 1s \more sophisticated and better informed than + the vast maJonty • of v10ter~ in ~945.\ . Paterson_ at~rtbute-s t~IS shift to advances in education and in the .comrnumcat!(;ms I_'Iledm. \The U year-old today is genuinely quahfi~d to exercise hLs ballot as well as the majority of the voters\ he believes. ' Figures from the National Education Association and the Census Bureau show that the 18-20 age bracket has more formal education than apy uth_er 3-y~ar group in the population. The Fair Franchise C,o:t_nmittee c1t~s this a s -well as the proximity of younger people to ) • ~1v1cs courses In school, as a major argume11t in favor of a lower age. ' ' ' + f' T 'T\~ f . W ¥ •f\W t • * ¥ v y \ v · t t v t v t + , v Y v v v v t • + # t \¥ v ¥ :.: ~ ~ t. ~ . ~ ~ ~ ~ • • 4il ~ . t ~ ... ~ t DEWITT'S Cafe-teria and Tap Room Fine foCJd and legal Beverages 118 - 120 JAY STREET S:pring Election Procedures Freshmen: On Mondays, Apr.n 3, 10; and t7, all Freshmen will vote in West Col!ege lounge from 5:30 to 7:30 P.M. ·On Tuesday, April 4 and 11, aH Freshmen pledges and fra- ternity rr,embers will vote in their houses from 6:80 to 7:20 P.M. All other freshmen inde- pendents will vote in West Col- lege lounge from 5:i:0-7::o P.i\I. Upperdass Fraternity 1\-i!en: All fraternity men will vote in their houses from 6:30-7:30 P.l\'L on aU c' etcion d:tys. Upperclass Jnd?.p~n~mts: Vot- ing for independent> will t:tke place in Davidson Hail Lounge from 5:2:0 to 7:00 P .. l\'L on all e!ection days . .Independent resi- dents of South College and Fox Hall are urged to vote in this lo- cation. Campas Poliing Places: Du-- ing e~ection days, voting will also he allowed in the following locations at the given times: Hale House Lounge . 12 to 1:00 P.l\1. Student Activities Office 1:00 to 3:00 P.IVI. Rathsl{eller 3:00 to 4:00 P.M. Any student can vote at l.he above locations. Corr:muters are urged to use these r.olling places. Spring Election Schedule March g-Petitions available for all offices. March 31-Petitions due for candidates for Class Offices and All College Council represent::l· tive. Turn into Stude 1t Activi- ties Office by 4 P.M. April ~-Primary elecLm for C!ass Officers and All Co.Icge Council representatives. April 4-Final election> for Class Officers and All Co1lc~c Council represen~atives. April 7-Petitions due for Stu- dent Council representat;ves. April 10-Primary for S~u­ dent Council representat:ves. April 11-Final election for Ccuncil representatives. April 17-Student body of- ficer elections. Further announ~ements and procedures will be announced in Concordiensis mid· bullf:tin btJards. IRC To Heal' Jhab~aia, ()ast Spc::ak.:;r Rt:l'i~wc;d By RICHARD PATTERSON, JR. Darius S. Jhabvala, U.N. Dip- lomatic correspondent of the Bost{)U Globe will speak on \South West Africa and the U.N.\ at 4:30 P.M. on April 6 in Hale House Student Lounge. · The talk is sponsored by the In- ternational Relations c·ub. former U.N. Man l\Ir. Jhabva~a was in the Com- munications Section of the United Nations before taking his present position. He taught at the Latin-American Institute in New York, his subjects being International Law, Diplomatic History, History of the Far· East and Diplomatic Correspondence. He studied in Bombay, India at Colgate University and at the Latin-American Institute in Chi- cago, Illinois. He obtained his lVIasters Degree in Internationa1 Affairs from the New School for Social Research in New York. In 1949 and 1950 he wrote ar- ticles for the 1952 edition of the Encyclopedia Americana. Besides speaking on various rhases of the U.N., Jhabvala has also lectured before social and religious groups on Indian re- ligions. He was an instructor of International Law in 1955, 1957 and 1959. Press Service Writer France, and ~orwa:y. Anyone in- terested sh~uld <Jontact Bob Giovamttl at 438·0Jl9 rr Gary Prevost at 393-1704. Approxi- rr..ate y 10 Skidn:ore g~r.s w1H join the Union group for the trip. \The search for water and not the Arab-Israeli conflict will de- termine the future of the Mid- dle East. The biggest probl.em the Midd e East faces in the next twenty-five years is find- ing encugh food.\ This is the way Mr. Yosef Yaakov, Consul of Israel in New York, sun:mctl up the chal:enges facing the Middle East in his lecture ''Israel and th3 Midd:e East,\ i\Iarch 6 in Hale House. Water Problems l':atural iaciors seem to be working against a stab:e and prosperous Middle East. Be- sides a lack of rainfall, the Mid· dle East has only a few reajor rivers. Water for crop irrigation rr.ust come from the sea. No way has yet been oerfected to convert salt wtaer :i!rom the sea into fresh water usab!e for irri- gation. The hope of Israel and the Middle East lies in the U'le of atomic energy t<J convert the salt water economicary so that adequate food can be grown. To promote this project, Israel and the United States have signed a treaty which calls In a newspaper advertisement believed to be unprecedented in size, more than 6,750 teachers (nursery school through univer- s.ty) issued a statement calling ( ll the American people to stop the war in Vietnam by mobi- Lz Hg r: ublic opinion in their cc mrr.unities. Co-sj:onsors of the advertise- n c·nt were the Inter-University Committee For Debate On For- eign Po~icy (Organizers of the Tea~h-In) and the Teachers Corr.m;ttec For Peace In Viet- nam. The staten:ent was signed by 4.112 teachers and 2,654 college and unh·ers:ty faculty rrembers ;n 37 states, inc:uding 11 Amer- ican unh·ersity facu:ty n:embers tea· h:ng in Canada, Denmark, and France. Statement The statement noted that \the war continues because vital facts about its origin and de- velof)ment have been deliberate- ly glossed ever, distorted, and withheld from the American people. Only an informed pub- lic opinion can stop this bar- baric conflict before it escalates into nuclear war . . . Take the lead - get in tou ~h with a like- minded colleague, a friend, a c::ergyman, or a neighbor. De- eide together what you can best do to get the facts into your cnmm unity.\ End Bombing The thousands of educators who signed the statement asked the A1:erican people to join them in urging that the un:ted States Gcvernrr.ent: Front is the representative of a substantial portion of the South Vietnam people and is thereby entitled to play a role in any future Vietnam govern· ment. 4. Arrange to implement the 1954 Geneva Accords which call for the removal of all foreign troops from Vietnam. The statement on Vietnam and the names of the signets are reproduced in 2 and ~ j:ages in the \News Of The Week In Review\ section of the March 12 New York Times (pages 5, 6, and 7.) Unprecedented Number The unprecedented number of signatories ( 6,766 educators) is indicative of the growing oppo- sition to the war in Vietnam. (:.\Irs.) Rebecca Berman, coord- inator of the Teachers Commit- tee For Peace In Vietnam, pointed out that this is par- ticularly significant in view of th2 fact Lhat a different adver- tisen·ent (~VIr. President: Stop The Bombing), a:so necessitat- ing contributions by its signa- tories, was being circulated in the co:leges and universities at the samt' time. 'fh:~ other sponsorning group, tlw Inter-University Committee For Debate On Foreign Policy, in o~der to develop community awareness of the issues in the war, recently helped initiate the ~J:ring J.V:obilization. Mobiliza- tion plans call for massive dem- l'nstraticns on Saturday, A nril 15, at two protest centers-New YQrk C~ty and San Francisco- d r.eop!e frcm all over the un:ted States. 1. End al! bombings both in Kerth and Scuth Vietnam. Dialogue Program 2. Declare a cease-fire. 3. Adopt the rea;istic position that the National Liberat:on the Middle East with the faJ of the Ottom:m Empire at the end of World War I,\ he said. At the Erne of its nationalistic up- surge., he pointed out, the area had experienced no ·· induc;trial revolution, political enlighten- ment, or cultural growth. Mr. Yaakov was quick to call Israel \the only island of PO· litical stability\ in this unstab:e area. Israel, he pointed out, has had no riots or violent revolu- tions since her inception. She is also the most industria:.ized country in the area. The Dialogue Coffee House has announced its program for the first weekend in April. On Saturday, April 1, a dramatic rrcsentation by the Moving F. nger of Union College will be rffered. And ort Sunday, April 2, Mr. Richard Sewell will speak en Conservatism. Although these programs have been s::hedu:ed, they are subject to change. Any changes will be announced in Concordy or in the Schenectady news· 11apers. The Dialogue is located on :21 S. Ferry Street. It is open each week Thursday, Friday, Saturday, and Sunday from 8:00 to 12:00 P.M. For further infor- tr.aticn ca!l 348-9742. Mr. Jhabva:.a publishes in five languages and writes frequently for Foreign Press Service and Mutual Press Service. He was formerly Senior Editorial As- sistant for a national magazine and United Nations Correspond- ent for the New York Herald for the joint estab:ishment of ,.•••••••••••••••••••••••••-1 an atomic reactor in the Negev I Tribune. · The IRC is sponsorning a seminar at the U.N. on Friday, April 7. The topic of the sem- · inar is \A Re-evaluation of Nato'· and those attending will meet with delegates from the U .. S .. , Great Britain, West Germany, Desert. The reactor will gen- erate electricity and desalinate sea water. Both will be made availab 1 P to other areas in the Middle East. He described the Middle East, in general, as \chaotic. turbu- lent and unstable.\ \The Mid- dle East,\ he said, \was p:ucked cut of the middle ages and dropped into the twentieth cen- tury. Historica:·y an unstab'e area, \the r henon:enon ()f state-nat- ionalism grasped the people of DAMBROSE CLEANERS SHIRTS 22c- SUITS 98c- PANTS 49c Student Discount on All Dry Cleaning 1517 Van Vranken Avenue FR 4-5193 '':. \\t ....... ......_ J r~= .. =·~·~·~ ... ~ ... ; .. ;·;·~·~ .. ~-;;.LA~~·~·;;;·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~ .. ~·~ .. ~·~ .. ~-~ .... ~ ... ~· .. ~·:: ... :. ... :. ....... ::;~--:~-::;;;;=-==-;;::-~~~=--=-:-::-~~~;;::-~-==-:-:-====-=~~=--~;;::.::--:·-=· ~:::::::--===-~=-; I UNIO·N BOOK COMPANY ~37-241 STATE STREET ---.-- ... --- Books •.• Paperback Classics --- .. --- Party Fiitvors • • • Art Supplies Office Supplies Serving Union For 33 Years SILVER DINER of Schenectady ERIE BOULEVARD 6 A.M. - 11 P.M. 346-9522 Excellent Food and Informal Atmosphere CAPRI ••.. FROM $250 ~atmr11c~\B. J~.---·~ Q'r~ufoa1ri 1 . THE Jl\'1 it\ E ons I

4 Jazz and Rock: New Sophistication By CLIFFORD SAF ANE But the point i~ that for the first tiiue in rock~s All the lonely people, history, these questions are being raised, and at Where do they all come from? times, being answered. And hopefully, people All the lonely people, are listening. Where do they all belong'! The Beatles paved the way for other groups to The Beatles, probably the most influential and explore man and his feelings, and to utilize new popular rock group of all time, are responsible forms of music. For example, the Buffalo Spring- for the above quotation. They have taken rock a field, in their new single, \For What It's Worth,\ great step forward, and have showed that the examine the tension hetween the older generation music can be considered a genuine art form. and· the youth ef today. The EngHsh group transformed the inane Dick There's something happenin' here Clark \moon-June\ rhyme lyrics of the fifties What it is ain't exactly clear. ' into a more personal means of expression. 1 In the There's a man with a gun in his hand, case of the above quoted passage from \Eleanor Tellin' me I got to beware. Rigby,\ fr~m the album Revolve~, the Beatles .ex- amine society as a whole. And mstead of seemg Group everyone as happy people, they delve beneath And then there are the Byrds. This talented outer appearances. group took the Beatles' lead in using new ideas Little Feeling m rock and came up with \Do You Want 'To Be What do they see? People with little feeling a Rock-and~Roll Star.\ Ar~mnd and through a for each other, running about and trying .to en- pre-recorded tap~ of sc~eamu1;g teeny-boppers, t~e joy life. And eventuaHy realizing that their <ex- Byr~s weave theu mus1c .. Thts num~?•.plus t~e1r istence has 'been meaningless, and that they l[\dla~ · John ·Coltrane mfluenced Eight Mtles haven't really lived. High, sho~ ~hat the Byrds are .a group of well \Rigby\ isn't the Beatles only good song .. ~x- tramed mus1c1ans who have defimtely helped rock amine their tune \Yesterday.\ It tells the fam1llar pro~ress. story of a man who has lost his girl and lon~s Smce the B~rds have, payed open homage to for her. But notice how lyrically the thought Is tenor.saxop~omst ~o!m Coltrane, maybe we sJ:lould expressed. For such young men, it is very well exl:!mme th~ muslC13!1· A~ter al!, he too 1s . an written artist who 1s expressmg h1s feelmgs about hfe, Sudd~nly, I'm not half the man I used to be although it is done: _di~erentlr than :rock. Jazz There's a shadow hanging over me. e_xpresses the musicians. feelmgs and lets the Oh yesterday came suddenly. llstener draw the questions from the results, But back to Revolver, perhaps the greatest rock ratJ:?.er. than roc~ which simply asks. the questions album ever made. The key to this masterpiece is (this IS not saymg. that one .form 1s better than \Tomorrow Never Knows.\ Around and through the other). For th1s reason, J.azz may seem to be the mass o:f sound of drums, guitars, pre-recorded too abstract for the average listener. tapes and electronic music, John Lennon sings Album Turn off your mind and float downstream, It is not dying, it is not dying. Lay down all thoughts, and surrender to the void, It is shining, it is shining. Let you may see the meaning of within. It is being, it is being. Psychedelic Call this a psychedelic song if you wish. But whatever it is, the song is again a commentary on life. Are we really living? What are we? Are we being? It's not the Beatles intent, or mine for that matter, to answer these questions, no matter how important they may be. This is for you to decide. But listen to Coltrane play on his album Coltra~e Live At the ViHage Vanguard Again. Just llke the Byrds and the Beatles, Coltrane comments on our society - everyone wants everything to be categorized, no matter what we say about freedom of expresison. And just like the Beatles discovering \it is being,\ Coltrane is ~aying the same th~ng. He is tired Df being an Ignored, and sometlmes a persecuted artist. He is a man, because against these obstacles he still has the guts to say what he feels. His screams, moans, as well as melodic passages, say, \Damn I'm a man; I say what I feel. If you don't want to listen, you don't have to. But don't tell me to shut up.\ But Coltrane isn't accepted while the Beatles are. Why? Possibly because Coltrane doesn't have a rock rhythm section, and one can't dance to his music (yet, if you really tried, you could dance to it.) Union students at a ~ecent performance ma'ke the new sounds of modern jazz. Most of lis do hear jazz without knowing it. For example, Cannonball Adderly's \Mercy Mercy, 'Mercy,\ a big hit on the rock market is a jazz performance, although slightly watered down. Adderly's m1,1sic contains the two necessi- ties for a music to be called jazz: improvisation and rhythmic quality. It is a joyful tune describ- ing man's 'happier times (resembling the phiios- ophy of such rock tunes as \Hard Days Night,\ and \I Want to Hold Your Hand\). It also has an infectious beat. Possibly this is why it is such a big hit. But anyway, it is jazz, and once the lis· tener has beard this, and starts to appreciate and understand it, he will be able to move on to the more compl~x music of Miles Davis and Coltrane. Fusion Jazz and rock are increasingly coming together. The Blues Project, (\Flute Song\ ·from their al- bum Projections), the Mothers of Invention, the Love, the Jefferson Airplane, and the Byrds am~ng .others .• are n.ow starting to 1.1tilize }mprovi- sabon m th.~U\ music. Although much or the re- sults have been poor, the groups should be en- coura~ed to keep trying. After all, th1!y are at- temptmg to_ expand their musi~. And perhaps through then efforts, hard c.ore Jazz will become more popular, as well as a new m1.1sic called jazz rock being created. And both results would be welcome additions to the musical scene. Thursday, March 30,. 1967 Bo·ok Review: Stockade Section Described in Tales By ROBERT STOLZBERG WALLS HAVE EARS. By Giles Yates van der Bogert. Schenectady: Stockade Asso· ciation. 1966. One of the facets of the. Stockade that makes it one .of the more desirable neighborhoods of Schenectady is the sense of community that has grown-up among its r<;siden~s. Walls Hav:e J!!ars successfully mirrors thts feelmg of comerader1e. Writings Edited from the writings of the lat~ Giles Yates van der Bogart by the Publication Commit, tee of the Stockade Association, the book con· tains short anecdotes and historical . vignettes which were for the most part, originally printed in the Association newsletter, \The Stockade Spy\ between 1961-65. The scope of the book is wide. It shows the width of Mr. Bogert's interests and the depth of his concern for the Stockade. They range from reminiscences .of \flood parties\ which were oc· casioned by the flooding of the rive~-front. areas and the need to move all the furmture m .~he houses to the second floor (an occurrence wh1ch is rare l1ow, the autP.or tells us with some ~p­ parent nostalgia, due to th~ Sacandaga Rese~vo,rr) to a light-hearted discusstt>n of the col).fbctmg claims of two houses to be Schenectady's oldest. Stories In every instance, these ~ories evidence a warmth not only of subject matter but also of the author. For the man does come thr~ugh. on these pages. M'r. Bogert was deeply mvolved with the Stockade. A member of one of Sche· nectady;s oldest families, this trained architect was knowledgeable of the technical, hu~an and historical detail necessary for these p1eces to bring to life this aged section of Schenectady. I think that the real reason is due to the dif- ferent approaches of the Beatles and Coltrane. The Beatles never sound harsh. No matter how I Th d · weird \Tomorrow Never Knows\ is, or the mes- urs ay, ·March 30-Moving Finger: Mr. Arnold Assembled as a tribute to ~r. Bogert by the Stockade Association, which he helped to found, the Committee, which was chaired by Union Col- lege's Professor John Bradbury and included Mrs. George Braden, Mrs. PhiliP Stanley and Werner L. Feibes, have achiev~d their ends mar- velously. \Walls Have Ears\ 1s a must for any- one interested in this charming old neighborhood. sage of \Rigby tlie music doesn't get on your Bennett, writer, 8:00 p.m., Hale House Stu- nerves. But Coltrane's music does. It is a much dent Lounge. more direct music which immediately cuts into Friday, Marclt 31-Film Series: \Orpheus 7:00 You and a t . and 9.:00 p.m., S.S. 16. c uses a reac Ion. Tuesday, A.pril 4-Convocation: \Botanical Re- Harshness search in the Arctic,\ William C. Steere, Di· p 'bl rector of the New York Botanical Gardens ossi Y we aren't ready for Coltrane's music Phi . Beta Kappa Lecturer, 11:30 a.m., Me~ for its harshness may scare people away. S~ moria! Chapel. wha~ _about trumpeter Miles Davis? Here is a Thursday, April 6-Dennis Johnston, Playwright, mus1c1an who doesn't hold back what he feels 8:00 p,m,, Hale House Student Loungs because he is an artist. And 1t is his obliation Mr. D.arius Jhabva. Ia, UN Correspondent,' I·nter- to tell others how he feels. But Davis is less \far t a1 out\ than. Coltrane, for his music is m. ore chord· na Ion RelatiOns Club, 4:30 p.m., Hale b House Student Lounge. pro!P\ess10n ase~ than that of the sax:ophonist. Friday, April 7-Film Series: \The Big Store\ . Listen to Davis play the balad \Circle\ from 7 00 d 9 00 ' his new album Miles Smiles. Then listen to the : · Bl} : p.m., S.S. 16. FRESMMEN Any members of the Freshman Class who are. interc:sted in joining thll CONCORDY stafl are invited to meet with the editors on Sunday night at 7 :SO P.M. in the. office at Old Gym Hall. Writing, layo\llt and copyread· !3eatles' \Michelle.\ Both express love and seren- Convocation: New York Chamber Soloists Trumpeter Miles Davis has helped make jazz an 1ty. And both weave beautiful melodis lines over Muse1.1m Series, 8 = 3 0 p.m., Memmdal Chapel.' introspective music. the chords. The musics are really quite sun· 11 ·1 ·ar. Saturday, ~pril 8-LSD Conference, 10:00 a.m., ~------------------------------------~~====~~~~~~~~~=i~~M~e~m~o~rl~a~l~C~h~a~p~e;L~====~========~==~~~~~~~~~~======~============~ ing jobs are available. fW _. - n = = = = Traditional Natural Shoulder Clothing I . EASTERN AVENUE PIZZERIA 860 Eastern Ave. WE DELIVER PIZZA PHONE 393-0870 Europe is waiting for y(Jil- Where the boys and girls are European Jobs EV.ELYN WOOQ READING DYNAMICS GRADUATES OVER 250,000 Tbls revolutionary readi!i19 course starting its 8th year is nQw availabl'e at the Union C'?llege Campus to students and faculty. Senators, Educators. Business Leaders Praise Results Our Average Student Read.s 4.7 Times Faster Than Hls Starting S.peed WITH EQUAL OR BETTER COMPREHENSION The internationally famous EVELYN WOOD Reading Dynamics Institute INVITES YOU TO ATTEND A FREE DEMONSTRATION OF THIS UNIQUE METHOD WHERE YOU WILL: SEE AN AMAZING OO.CUMEN'TED FILM ABOUT READI!':G DYNAMICS LEARN HOW READING DYNAMICS CAN HELP YOU TO FASTER READIKG, IMPROVED COMPREliENSIO~. GREATER RETEI'oTION. GUARANTEE -::;:- We will guarantee to increase the reading efficiency [Speed & Comprehension) of each student by AT lEAST 3 TIMES as measured by the l:!eginning and ending tests. We will refund tho entire tuition of any student upon the completion of his course who da<>s not obtain at least the tripling of llis reading efficiency. This guarorlfee is. conditioned upon the student's attending all of the required c!aBes (or making up any missed sessions). He also ·must. hav'! ~ompleted the required number of ~omework hot~rs pccor~!ng to directions. FREE DEMONSTRATIONS FREE DEMONSTRATIONS WILL BE HEI.D AT TUESDAY, APRIL 4- TEN EYCK HOTEL: 12:15 ~ ~:15 • 8 p.~. WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5 - COMMUNITY ROOM, COLONIE SHOPPING,. CENTER 12:15- 3 - 5:15- 8 P.M. . . :J :< .. Th~o~rsday,, t r ( t' ne' ·elst llOt Iie the ·~ :to· vol Va' beE no· ,eth Ja~ J ~ get lr Inu ~ Sa) ·in 'Sar H·is .tha to-1 1 sho exa J ~· clai nla: '-( j I .II ) . I Ne1 de a Fine Je NEW Spii!Cia! · Firs Chc Of. THey lik theguar diamonc of fine cut. The in your sotisfacl you; K_ee Hes m \Jewel• PRICES fROhi I DETAI~. ® TRAD£ Jos. Nusbaum, Inc. Luxembourg-American Student ln· formation Service is celebrating its lOth year of successful operation placing st11dents in jobs and arrang- ing tours. Any student may now choose from thousands of jobs such as resort, office, sales, factory, hos- pital, etc. in 15 countries with wages up to $400 a month. AS IS maintains placement offices throughout Europe insuring you of on the spot help at all times. For a booklet listing all jobs with application forms and dis- count tours send $2 (for overseas handling & air mail reply) to: .;<•:~<- · .. .-;;1 -~--~~~:.··. ' THURSDAY, APRIL 6- UN BON COLLEGE ELECTRI.C ENG!NEE~ .. ;~OM 22 /l ,,.~~it 3 - 5 • 7 P.M. ' '. · ,~· · . ·! i . J HOWTC · f Plea~se se ment and 1 only 25c .• 447-451 State Street Down Town Schenectady Dept. M, American Student Informa· tion Service, 22 Ave. de Ia Libertei Luxembourg City, Grand Duchy o Luxembourg. ,.. . ·, '· ; SATURDAY, APRIL 8- TENEYCK HOTEL: 12 Noon . For Further Information, write to j ,. . --~ : .. ·' READING DYNAMICS INSTITUTE~ TEN EYCK HOTEL, ALBANY, N.Y. or call 462-5408 1 Name_ I A~dr~~s­ CitY\'-- 1 State_ I KEEPSAK ---

4 Thursday, March 30, 1967 Jazz and Rock: New Sophistication Book Review: By CLIFFORD SAFANE But the point i~ that for the first tir'ne in rock's All the l!mely people, history, these questions are being raised, a11d at Where do they all come from? times, being answered. And hopefully, people All the lonely people, are listening. Where do tl1ey all belong? The Beatles paved the way for other .groups to The Beatles, probably the most influential and explore man and his feelings, and to utilize new popular rock group of all time, are responsible forms of music. For example, the Buffalo Spring· tor the above quotation. They have taken rock a field, in their new single, \For What It's Worth,\ great step forward, and have showed that the examine the tension between the older generation music can be cot1sidered a genuine art form. and the youth of today. The English grmtp transformed the inane Dick There's samething happenin' here, Clark \moon-June\ rhyme lyrics of the fifties What it is ain't exactly clear. into a more personal means of expression. In the There's a man with a gun in his hand case of the above quoted passa~ from \Eleanor Tellin' me I get to beware. ' Rigby,\ from the album Revolve~·· the Beatles .ex- amine society as a whole. And INstead of seemg Gro11p everyone as happy people, they delve beneath And then there are the Byrds. This talented outer appearances. group took the Eeatles' lead in using new ideas Little Feeling m rock and came up with \Do You Want To Be What do they see'? People with little feeling a Rock-and-Roll .Star.\ Ar!luna and through a for each other, running about and trying to en- pre-recorded tap~ of sc~eamu~g teeny-boii>pers, t~e joy life. And eventually realizing that their ex- Byr~s weave the1r music .. This num~?r.plus t~eir Istence has been meaningless, and that they ID:dla~ · John Coltrane mfl.uencea Etght M1les haven't really lived. High, shov.: ~hat the Byrds are _a group of weH \Rigby\ isn't the Beatles only good song. Ex- tramed musicians who have definitely helped rock amitije their tmte \Yesterday.\ It tells the famiH&r pro~ress. story of a rnaH '.vho has los~ his girl and lon~s Smce the B~1ds have payed open homage ttl for her. But notu·e how lyncally the thought IS tenor.saxopJ:omst ~o~n Coltrane, maybe we s~ould expressed. For such. young men, it is very well ex~mme th~s mus1cia!1. A~ter a1!, he too Is, an written. artist who. I~ eJCpressu:g hrs feelings about life, Suddenly, I'm not half the man I used to be aUhough It Is done; _dlf!erentl~ than rock. Jazz There's a shadow hanging over me. e.xpresses the musicians. feelmgs and lets the Oh. yesterday came suddenly. listener draw the 9ues~10ns from the res~Us, But back to Revolver, perhaps the greatest rock rat~er. than roc~ which stmply asks. the questmns album ever made. The key to this masterpiece is (this IS not saymg. that (me .form 1s better than \Tomorrow Never Knows.\ Around and through the other). For this reason, J.azz may seem to be the mass o.f sound of drums, guitars, pre-recorded too abstract for the average hstener. tapes, and electronic. music, John Lennon sings Albllm Turn off your mmd and float downstream, It is not dying, it is not dying. Lay down all thoughts, and surrender to the void, It is shining, it is shining. Let you may see the meaning of within, It is being, it is being. Psychedelic Call this a psychedelic song if you wish. But whatever it is, the song is again a commentary on life. Arc we really living? What are we? Are we being'? It's not the Beatles intent, or mine for that matter, to answer these qtlestions, no matter how important they may be. This is for you to decide. Trumpeter Miles Davis bas helped make jazz an But listen to Coltrane play on his album Coltrane Live At the Village Vanguard Again. Just like the Byrds and the Beatle.S, Coltrane comments on our society - everyone wants everything to be categorized, no matter what we say about freedom of expresison. And just like the Beatles discovering \it is being,\ Coltrane is saying the same thing. He is tired of being an ignored, and sometimes a persecuted artist. He is a man, because against these obstacles he still has the guts to say what he feels. His screams, moans, as well as melodic passages, say, \Damn I'm a man; I say what I feel. If you don't want to listen, you don't have to. But don't tell me to shut up.\ But Coltrane isn't accepted while the Beatles are. Why? Possibly because Coltrane doesn't have a rock rhythm section, and one can't dance to his music (yet, if you really tried, you could dance to it. ) I think that the real reason is due to the dif- ferent approaches of the Beatles and Coltrane. The Beatles never sound harsh. No matter how weird \Tomorrow Never Knows\ is, or the mes- sage of \Rigby the music doesn't get on your nerves. But Coltrane's music does. It is a much more direct music which immediately cuts into you and causes a reaction. Harshness Possibly we aren't ready for Coltrane's music for its harshness may scare people away. S~ what about trumpeter Miles Davis? Here is a musician who doesn't hold back what he feels because he 1s an artist. And 1t is his obliation to tell others how he feels. But Davis is less \far out\ than Coltrane, for his music is more chord pro~ression base¢ than that of the saxophonist. Listen to Davis play the balad \Circle\ from his new album Miles Smiles. Then listen to the ~eatles' \Michelle.\ Both express love and seren- Ity. And both weave beautiful melodis lines over the chords. The musics are really quite similiar. introspective music. ----- '0 = = = Traditional Natural Shoulder Clothing 1 EASTERN AVENUE PIZZERIA 860 Eastern Ave. WE DELIVER PIZZA PHONE 393-0870 Europe b. waiting for yoll- 'Where the buys and girls are Union students at a recen~ performance make the ~ew sour:~ds of modern jazz .. Most of us do hear jazz without knowin.g it. For example, Cannonball! Adderly's \Mercy Mercy, Mercy,\ a big hft on the rock market, is a jazz performance, although slightly watered down. Adderly's music contains the two necessi· ties for a music to be caltled jazz: improvisation and rhythmic quality. It is a joyful tune describ- ing man's happier times (resembling the philos- ophy of such rock tunes as \Hard Days Night,\ and \I Want to Hold Your Hand\). It also has an in~ectious beat. Possibly this is why it is such a big hit. But anyway, it is jazz, and once the lis- tener has heard this, and starts to appreciate and understand it, he will be able to move on to the more complex music of Miles Davis and Coltrane. Fusion Jazz and rock are increasingly coming together. The Blues Project, (\Flute Song\ from their al- bum Projections), the Mothers of Invention the Love, the Jefferson Airplane, and the Byrds among others, are now starting to utilize improvi- sation in their music. Although much of the re- sults have been poor, the groups should be en- coura~ed to keep trying. After all, they are at- temptmg to expand their music. And perhaps through their efforts, hard core jazz will become more popular, as well as a new music called jazz rock being created. And both results would be welcome additions to the musical scene. 1\ Thursday, March 30-Moving Finger: Mr. Arnold Bennett, writer, 8:00 p.m., Hale House Stu- · dent Lounge, Friday, Marc~ 31-Film Series: \Orpheus 7:00 and 9:00 p.m., S.S. 16. Tuesday, April 4-Convocation: \Botanical Re- search in the Arctic,\ William C. Steere Di- rector ()f the New York Botanical Gardens I . Phi. Beta Kappa Lecturer, 11:30 a.m., Me: monal Cl;Iapel. I Thursday, April 6-Dennis Johnston, Playwright, 8:00 p.m., Hale House Student Loungs Mr. Darius Jhabvala, UN Correspondent' Inter- national Relations Club, 4:30 p.m.: Hale House Student Lounge. Friday, April 7-Film Series: \The Big Store,\ 7:00 and 9:00 p.m., S.S. 16. Convocation: New York Chamber Soloists Museum S!lries, 8:30 p.m., Memorial Chapel.' Saturday, ~prtl 8-LSD Conference, 10:00 a.m., Memonal Chapel. Stockade Section Described in Tales By ROBERT STOLZBERG WA.LLS HAVE EARS. By Giles Yates van d8r Bogert. Sch~nectady: Stockade Asso· ciation. 1966. One of the facets of the Stockade that makes it one of the more desirable netgh~orhoods of Schenectady is the sen:se of commumty that has grown-up ameJ!lg its r~siden~s. Walls Have. E.ars successfully m1rrors this feehng of comeraderie. Writings Edited from the writings of .the. late Gil~s Yates van der Bogart by the Publlcatmn Commlt· tee of the Stockade Association, the book con· tains short anecdotes and historicai vignettes which were, for the most part, originally printed in the Association newsletter, \The Stockade Spy\ betweeN 1:961-65. The scope of the book is wide. It shows the width of !Vlr. Bogert's interests and the depth of his concern for the Stockade. They range from reminiscences of \:tl:ood parties\ which were oc· casioned by the flooding of the river-front areas and the need to move all the fl!l.rniture in ~he houses to the second floor .(an occurrence which is rare now, the author tells us with some \\P· parent nostalgia, due to th~ SacaRdaga Rese~vo.Ir) to a Ul!ht-hearted discl!l.ssion of the confhctmg claims of two houses to be Schenectady's oldest. Stories In every instance, these stories evidence a warmth not only of subject matter but also of the author. For the man does come thr~ugh on these pages. Mr. Bogert was deeply mvolved with the Stockade. A member of one of Sche· nectady's oldest famiUes, this trained architect was knowledgeable of the technical, huf!!an and historical detail necessary for these pieces to bring to !He this aged section of Schenectady. Assembled as a tribute to Mr. Bogert by the Stockade Association, which he helped to found, the Committee, which was chaired by U~ion Col- lege's Professor John Bradbu~~ and mcluded Mrs. George Braden, Mrs. PhiliP ~tanley and Werner L. Feibes, have achiev~d their ends mar- velously. \Walls Have Ears\ IS a m~st for any- one interested in this charming old neighborhood. FRESHMEN Any members of the Freshman Class who are interested in joining the CONCORDY stafi are invited to meet with the editors nn Sunday night at 7 :SO P.M. in the_ office at Old Gym Hall. Writing, layout, and copyread· ing jobs are available. Ev··ELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS GRADUATES OVER 250,000 This revolutionary reading course starting its 8th year is now availabh,; at the Union C91Jege Campus to students and faculty. Senators. Educators. Business Leaders Praise Results Our Average Student Reads 4.7 Times Faster Than His Starting Speed WITH EQUAL OR BETTER COMPREHENSION The internationally famous EVELYN WOOD Reading Dynamics Institute INVITES YOU TO ATTEND A FREE DEMONSTRATION OF THIS UNIQUE METHOD WHERE YOU WILL: SEE AN AMAZING DOCUMEN'TED FILM ABOUT READING DYNAMICS lEARN HOW READING DYNAMl CS CAN HELP YOU TO FASTER READli'-G, IMPROVED COMPREHENSION, GREATER RETEt-.TION. GUARANTIEE We will guarantee to increase the reading efficiency (Speed & Comprehension) of each student by AT LEAST 3 TIMES as measured by the beginning and ending tests~ We will ref1.1nd the ent:re tuition of any student upon the completion of his course who do-es not obtain at least the tripling of his reading efficiency, This guarantee is conditioned upon the student\s attending Clll of the required c:ass.es (·or making up any missed sessions}. He also must hav~ completed the required number of home..,...ork hoqrs occord:ng to directions. European Jobs FREE DEMONSTRATIONS ·- FREE DEMONSTRATIONS WILL BE HELD AT ''·..., Jos. Nusbaum, Inc. 447-4.51 State Street Down Town Schenectady Luxembourg-American Stmlent In- formation Service is celebrating its lOth year of successful operation placing students in job~ and arrang- ing tours. Any student may now choose from thousands of jobs such as resort, office, sales, faetory, hos- pital, etc. in 15 conn tries with wages up to $400 a month. ASIS maintains placement offices throughout Europe insuring you of on the spot help at all times. For a booklet listing all jobs with application forms and dis- count tours send $2 (for oversea~ handling & air mail reply) to: Dept. M, American Student Informa- tion Service, 22 Ave. de la Liberte/ Luxembourg City, Grand Duchy o Luxembourg. TUESDAY, APRIL 4- lEN EYCK HOTEL: 12:15 ~ 5:15-8 p.01. WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5 - COMMUNITY ROOM, COLONIE SHOPPING CENTER 12:15-3-5:15-8 P.M. . THURSDAY, APRiL 6 - UNlON COLLEGE ELECTRIC ENGINEERJH~ ROOM 22 3 • 5 - 7 P.M. ,_.<Y SATURDAY, APRIL 8- TEN EYCK HOTEL: 12 Noon For Further Information; write to READING DYNAMICS INSTITUTE- TEN EYCK HOTEL, ALBANY, N. Y. or call 462-5408 •, i ! I I ' I . '. I, lr I Thursday, ne cis no He thE to vol Va be• 110 ett J·a• ge1 Im l Sa: in Sa1 Hil th~ to sh< eJC! cla rrla Ne del u :6 Fine J1 WEW I Special \'~ I ·• (. \ q l . ~ ~ r ~ ), 4, 6 I (¥ I I ~ f _4· •l ' . .. Fir~ Ch< Of. Enc .... T~ey li~ thegua1 diamon' of fine cut. Th, in your satisfac Hu;K.e, esm \Jewel tRICES ,RoM l DETAIL. ® TRAD! --- I HOWT~ i PleC!se s1 ment anc I only 25c. I Name_ I Address_ City_ I State __ I KEEP SAl< ---

. 1967 Thursdalfl March 30,. 1967 ~ ( Clandestine Conference Coups World 0· of has Ears Giles con· ted Spy\ s the of f1.1om OC· a1.1eas the ap· a the on Sche· and es to the Col- and mar· any- are. staff on at •) { t I J ~ ,,.; By H . .JAMES •BEDINGER March came in like a lion this year with the terrible news th.at God was neither in Argentina nor anywhere else. From Washington, D.C., the redoubtable Adam could liOt •even offer his quixotic suggestion to keep the faith. H:e had no pulpit, and what is even more discouraging, there were no babies. They have all gone to the war. Sen a'tor Baby Kennedy said that he had no commt:nt :to· offer at the present moment, because he was too m- volved with changing the abortion laws. He thought the Vatican would soon have a statement, but alas, there has heen no news from that quarter except that the J'ews were no longer responsible for the murder of Jesus of Nazar. •eth. '11lle Vatican decree, however, added that Senator Javits \llas heading for rough seas if he thought he could get· a-way with it twice. Ther-e was no mention of the Inuno:rtal Baby Kennedy and his vigorous endeavor. Chief Agent Meanwhile back at the ranch, God's chief agent, L.B.J. ' . lr Say Ifay, was emerging from the bush where he had been . in se~:uch of a certain bird. The distinct odor of Gutty 'Sar:k and pressed clams would he detected on his breath. ;tJ;,is only comment was to point to his scar and maintain that God could puN through or •off anything. He retired tothe swimming pool to practice his ritual walking ~it. J ~· The ·causes of God's supposed death were concluslVely sh()Wl1 :to be natural by an offical autopsy in Dallas. The examiners refused to produce the body for public :display, .claiming that the prominence of His lips might pr:odu~e mass rioting and race killings. However, one saint ~n New Orleans Jim Hesitant Harrison, asserted that God~s death \VaS accomplished by a conspiracy Of Jews and b 6 __ 5 : MI,CHAEL ·ROTH'S . ·R·ESTAURANT & LOUNGE OF UPPER UNION STREET Fine Jer:zz in The Lounge. Downstairs, a Fine Rock Group. fULL COURSE DINNERS $.1.75 AND UP NEW \'ORK STYLE JUMBO DELICATESSEN SAN.DWICHES •.. open till 3:00 a. m .••. Sp1,3cia! to Union Students: No cover or minimum; 10 per cent off on all food anddrinks. ·i .· o£ b==:=;================ ' ·~ .! I •I ~ \ r\; First Choice Of The E,ngageables REGISTERED; ~psake® DIAMOND RINGS THey like the smart styling and theguaranteed perfect center diamond ... a brilliant gem of fine color and modern cut. The !'lame, Keepsake, in your ring assures lifetime satisfaction. Select yours at YC?Ur Keeps<:~keJeweler' s store. He's in the yellow pages under \Jewelers.\ • tRICES ,.AC!i SUO. 10 $!5000. RINGS ENLARGEO TO SIIOYf' BEA.UT'I' OF ))£TAIL. ® TRADt·J.IAit-1( REG. A. lf •. POND COMPANY, INC., ESTABliSHED 1892. , .. ~~~PLAN YOUR ~NGAGEMENT AND WEDDIN~ ·J' Plea_se send ~ew 20-page booklet, \How To Plan Your Engage- ment and Wed(jlhg\ and new 12-page full color folder, both for 1 only 25c. Also, send special off~r of beautiful 44-page Bride's Book. I I I ~me I I Addre~s f CitY-··-~------------------ 1 State ip f ' I KEEPSAKE DIAMOND RINGS, BOX 9(), SYRACUSE, N.Y. 13202 I --------------- atheists. He said he had them by their bags and was go- .Jng to slowly twist them until the truth oozed out. That truth has proved to be elusive, but, in all its regal fore- sight, the Supreme Court produced a ten thousand .page bible supporting the Dallas autopsy. The office of Earl Warr.en saicl that the Chief Justice was vacationing in the Bahamas and could not offer a comment at the .present moment. There have been suggestions that the Chief Justice is planning a secret rendezvous with the vedoubt- able Adam, popul11rly known as Our lVIan Adam. Holy Problems, Batman The question of succession seems to be the most press- ing prob1em now. L.B.J. l:lay Hay contends that he is next m hne, but Our lVIan Adam has called this claim heresy. Adam 1s supporting a carpenter from Harlem who alleges to .be a direct descendent of Joseph, that frolicking, fun- lovmg, fumbling fink who walked out on M;ary atter a questtonable ttew member arrived in the family. Robert :!:)raft lVIaker, the important Secretary of Offense, main- tains that this is a job for Batman. Elsewhere in the world, surprise and shock have been the common reaction. Frenchmen say that this is indubi· tably an insidious plot by DeGaulle to restore the First Empire. They want to take to the streets and raise the barricades once again. On the other side of the Channel, the English feel the French just want another excuse to get free grabs in the streets and have blasted the French for their licentiousness. In contrast to these opinions, the Rusians have ironically refused to recognize God, just as the State Department and CIA have. Nevertheless, Marvelous Loquacious King has revealed that his organi- zation has been secretly taking money from the ·CIA and NEWS for ENG GRA contends that this agency and depavtment are in the thick of the mess. . . . In Arabia and Africa the concensus of opmton IS that the Louisville Slugger should asume the throl}e left vacant since he is clearly the toughEst mother m the va1ley.' \What's his ~ace\ wa.s extr~mely happy about this suggestion because 1t has given him a new legal appeal to be excluded fmm the draft. On the other hand, Israel was not to be outdone. As the Heart of Holy Heaven and Hell she maintains that the traditional residence of God is in' her borders wherever that may ;be. Accordingly she has announced the beginning .of a new reign and ~~s summoned Queen Yeshiva to perform the demandmg tasks of God. Sllmmit Conference Despite all these contentions, the truE hero is rising to the occasion. He is a universially proclaim~d and loved rlgure. There are few days in Hie year that hts adventures and feats are not reported in the newspapers. What re- mains a mrstery is 'YhY .aU t,his m~ss .arose in. the first place. Perhays mankmd Is stlU preJudiced agamst dogs. Or maybe .the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals thought the task of divinity too harsh for our hero. In any case, news has just ar.rived from a clandes· tine summit conference in the Carribbean that the fun and games are <>ver. Representatives from .the 'Yorld over, including the Pope, Ho Ho Ho frorn th.e Or1ent, Bang Bang from Vietnam, Our Man Adam, and the Immort~l Baby Kennedy were present at this high level conference. The decree issued proclaimed 'piece' <Jn earth and an- nounced that a year's supply of Kennel rations would be sent to Snoopy in recognition of his new position. Thanks be to Peanuts! I ~ .. 1~.1.1_: nl c:, >>I 1 \~ lUJ Continued expansion of our militaryi and commercial business provides op~ni~gs for virtually every technical talent. As you contemplate one of the most important decisions of your fife, we suggest you consider career oppor- tunities at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft. Like most everyone else, we offer all of the usual \fringe\ benefits, in- cluding our Corporation-financed Graduate Education Program. But, far more important to you and your fu. ture, is the wide-open opportunity for professional growth with a company that enjoys an enviable record of stability in the dynamic atmosphere of aerospace technology. I And make no mistake about it ... you'll get a solid feeling of satisfaction from your contribution to our nation's economic growth and to its national defense as well. Your degree can be a B.S., M.S. or Ph.D. in: MECHAN- ICAL, AERONAUTICAL, CHEMICAL, CIVIL (structures oriented), ELECTRICAL, MARINE, and METALLURGI· CAL ENGINEERING • ENGINEERING MECHANICS, APPLIED MATHEMATICS, CERAMICS, PHYSICS and ENGINEERING PHYSICS. for further information concerning a career with Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, consult your coij.~ge placement officer-or write Mr. William L. Stoner, Engineering Department, Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, East Hartford, Connecticut 06108. ±·IS\ Take a look at the above chart; then a good long look at Pratt & Whitney Aitcraft-where technical careers offer exciting growth, continuing cballenge. and lasting sta• bility-where engineers and scientists a~e recognized as the major reason for the Company's continued success. SPECIALISTS IN POWER • • • POWER FOR PROPULSION- POWER FOR AUXILIARY SYSTEMS. CURRENT UTILIZATIONS INCLUDE. MILITARY AND COMMERCIAL AIRCRAFT, MISSILES, SPACE VEHICLES,, MARINE AND INDUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS. Pratt & Wi1itney ~lrcraft u OIVISIOI'ol OF' UNriEE:D AIRCRAFT CORP, ·~ CONNECTICUT OPERATIONS EAST HARTFOI11), CONNECTICUT An Equol Oppo'i'l:lmity Employer :·.'•; t' .: \'-. ~

1961 es of has Ears Giles COD· ted Spy\ tb.e of from oc· areas the icting dest. nee a the on Sche· and to the n Col- and mar- any- are stafi en at ---· • Thursday, March 30, 1967 I I Clandestine Conference Coups World By H. JAMES BEDINGER ' . '. iVIarch carne in Iike a lion this year with the terrib!e news that God was neither in Argentina nor anywhere else. From Washington, D.C., the redotrbtab!e Adam could not even offer his qui:x:otic suggestien to keep the faith. He had no pulpit, and what is even more discouraging, there were no babies. They have an gone to the war. 1 :I·, I I lot I i I I tJ :6 ~ I\ { I ' ) :~ I l ' \. ' I ·• (. \ q l 1- ~ ) • ...... \ ~ r l . .. Senator Baby Kennedy said that he had rro comme,nt to offer at the present moment, because he was too In· volved with changing the abortion laws. He thought the Vatican would soon have a statement, but a·las, there has been no news from that quarter except that the Jews were RO longer responsible for the munfer of Jesus of Nazar- eth. The Vatican decree, however, added that Senator Javits was heading for rough seas if he thought he could get' away with it twice. There was no mention of the Immortal Baby Kennedy and his vigorous endeavor. Chief Agent Ivieanwhi!e back at the ranch, God's chief agent, L.B.J. Say Hay, was emerging from the bush where he had been in search of a certain bird. The distinct odor of Cutty Sark and pressed clams would be detected on his breath. His only comment was to point to his sc~r and main~ain that God could puU thr<mgh or off anythmg. He rebred to the swimming pool to practice his ritual walking bit. The causes of God's supposed death were condusively showR to be nabtral !Dy an offical autopsy in Dallas. The examiners refused to produce the body for public display, claiming that the prominence of His lips might produce mass riotinO' and race killings. However, one saint in New Orlean~, Jim Hesitant Harrison, asserted that God's death was accomp1ished by a conspiracy of Jews and MI:CH,AEL ROTH'S REST AU RANT & LOUNGE OF UPPER UNION STREET Fine Jau in The Lounge. Downstairs, a Fine Rock Group. FULL COURSE DINNERS $1.75 AND UP NEW YORK STYLE JUMBO DELICATESSEN SANDWICHES . . • cpcn till 3:00 a. m. • . . Special to Union Stwdents: No cover or minimum. 10 per cent off on aN food and drinks. First Choice Of The Engageables REGISTERED; ~p s c:.Lk:e ® DIA.MOND RINGS T~ey like the smart styling and the guaranteed perfect center 'Ri!i[~~r~J~~J~~~~i~ diamond ... a brilliant gem \; of fine color and modern cut. The name, Keepsake, in your ring assures lifetime satisfaction. Select yours at your Keepsake Jeweler's store. He's in the yellow pages under \Jewelers PRICES f!ROM $100. TO $5000, IIINGS ENLARGED TO SHOW BE.\UTY OF' DETAIL. ® TRADE·MARK REG, A. H- POND COMPANY, INC., ESTABLISHED 1892. -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- f HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING I i PleC!se send new 20-page booklet, \How To Plan Your Engage- 1 ment and Wedding\ and new 12-page full color folder, both for 1 only 25c. Also, send special off~r of beautiful44-page B~ide's Book. f 1 Name I I Address ________________________________________ ___ City I J State ip I I KEEPSAKE DIAMOND .RINGS, BOX 90, SYRACUSE, N~ Y. 13202 I ----------------- atheists. He said he hacl them by their bags and was go- ing to slowly twist them until the truth oozed out. That truth has proved to be elusive, but, in aU its regal fore- sight, the ::iupreme Court produced a ten thousand page bible supportmg the i[)allas autopsy. The office of Earl Warren said that the Chief Justice was vacationing in the Hahamas and could not offer a cemment at the present mement. There have been suggestions that the Chief Justice is plaRning a secret rendezvous with the reduubt- a:ble Adam, po.pularly kn<l\vn as Our Man Adam. Holy Problems, Batman The question of successioR seems to be the most press- ing prob\em now. L.B.J. ~ay Hay contends that he is next m line, but Our Man Adam has ca-lled this claim heresy. Adam IS supporting a carpenter from Harlem who aHeges to be a direct descendent of Joseph, that frolicking, fun· l~v1ng, fumbling fink who walked out en Mary atter a questionable new member arrived in the family. Robert Vra±t Maker, the imp1ntant Secretary of Offense, main- tains that thrs is a job for Batman. Elsewhere in the world, surprise and shock have been tbe common reactwn. Frenchmen say that this is indubi- tably an insidious plot by DeGaulle to restore the First Empire. They want to take to the streets and raise the barricades once again. On the other side of the Channel, the English feel the French just want another excuse to get free grabs in the streets and have blasted the French for their licentiousness. In contrast to these opinions, the Rusians have ironicaHy refused to recognize God, just as the State Department and CIA have. Nevertheless, Marvelous Loquacious King has revealed that his organi- zation has been secretly taking money from the CIA and centends that this agency and department are in the thick of the mess. In Arabia and Africa the concensus of opinion i$ that the LouisvHle Slugger should asume the throl}e left vacant, since he is cl'early the toughest mother m t~e valley. \What's his face\ was extremely happy about this suggestion, because it has given him a new lega:l a.ppeal te be excluded from the draft. On the ether hand, Israel was not to be outdone. As the Heart of Holy Heaven and Hell she maintains that the traditional residence of God is in' her borders, wherever that may be. Accordingly she has announced the beginning of a new reign and ~as summoned Queen Yeshiva to perform the demandmg tasks of God. Summit Conference Despite all these contentions, the true hero is rising to the occasion. He is a universially predaimed and loved rigure. There are few days in the year that his adventures and feats are not reported in the Rewspapers. What re- mains a mystery is why all this mess arose in the first place. Perhaps mankind is still prejudiced against dogs. Or maybe the Society for the Prevention o.f Cruelty to 1\nirnals theught the task of divinity too harsh for our hero. In any case, news has just arrived from a clandes- tine summit conference in the Cardbbean that the fun and games are over. Representatives from .the ..yorld over, including the Pope, Ho Ho Ho from the Orient, Bang Bang from Vietnam, Our Man Adam, and the Immortal Baby Kennedy were present at this high level conference. The decree issued proclaimed 'piece' on earth and an- nounced that a year's supply of Kennel rations would be sent to Snoopy in recognition of his new position. Thanks be to Peanuts! ~----- --~--- ---- ~------~ EWS for ENG GRA :: l~, .. ' ,·',r_, .. '~.:.·,'~~;·,!.:··,' :.'.1.l_! :\1 ~. M ~ Continued expansion of our military, and commercial business provides op~nings for virtually every technical talent. As you contemplate one of the most important decisions of your life, we suggest you consider career oppor· tunities at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft. like most everyone else, we offer all of the usual \fringe\ benefits, in· eluding our Corporation-financed Graduate Education Program, E3ut, far more important to you and you.r fu· ture, is the wide-epen opportunity for professional growth with a company that enjoys an enviable record of stability in the dyt'lamic atmosphere of aerospace technology. And make no mistake about it ... you'll get a solid feeling of satisfaction from your contribution to our nation's economic growth and to its national defense as well. Your degree can be a B.S., M.S. or Ph.D. in: MECHAN- ICAL, AERONAUTICAL, CHEMICAL, CIVIL (structures oriented), ELECTRICAL, MARINE, and METALLURGI- CAL ENGINEERINGi • ENGINEERING MECHANlCS, APPLIED MATHEMATICS, CERAMICS, PHYSICS and ENGINEERING PHYSICS. For further information concerning a career with Pratt &. Whitney Aircraft, consult your colleg~ placement officer-or write Mr. William L. Stoner, Engineering Department, Pratt &. Whitney Aircraft, East Hartford, Connecticut 06108. Mtil ,g ?itliA'Pr it< 'VIttl'i'Nft't· Al:f«:IMFT TWitNlCAt, I'O.PUl.A'tH!N VS YEARS . · .. , . , ·l~QlkT~LRLj 1. . ·::, . .:· ~ :· . \f . tU:CORD UF STI\flU,l'tY J : ·.1 I .~ l · 1 1 (N.co dlt< ~~ t~c!t:l.)lga! papulation · ·· fat''tli\' fast quaortl:!r ~~ a eentuty; · :·:· .. ·-: .. -.:·.-.- l96ll Take a look at the above chart; then a good long look at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft-where technical careers otter exciting growth, continuing challenge, and lasting sta· bility-where engineers and scientists are recognized as the major reason for the Company's continued success. SPECIALISTS IN POWER ••• POWER FOR· PROPULSION- POWER FOR AUXILIARY SYSTEMS. CURRENT UTILIZATIONS INCLUDE MILITARY ANI> COMMERCIAL AIRCRAFT, MISSILES, SPACE VEHICLES, MARINE AN[).INDUSTR~AL APPLICATIONS. Pratt & Whitney l=lircraft u DIVISION OF UNITEC.~RAFT CORP, CONNECTICUT OPERATIONS EAST HARTFOr.l), CONNECTICUT An Equel Opportunity Employer 5

6 Letters to the Editor Published Thursday-a durtng the acnuuo year by the Student Body oC Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. :1-:ntlonal Advertising Representative: National Ad•ertlslng Service, Inc.. Collef:\e Publlsher·s Representative, ~20 :Mndl· ann Ave .. ~. Y. C. ~;dnot·ral Office. Old (Jym. L:ruun Col· lege. Pul>Jicatlon Office. Schenectady ' l'r·tnting Company. 502 Bt·oad'way. ; li:ntered In the Schenectady l'ost Of- : fke u·s ~et:onc..l CJass ~lull lluLtei·. : Subsm·iptton 1ac h CUll)'; $8 a year deltvered ltn,·where In til<' l'nlte<l StUtt-S. ~KNIOR ·80.\RU JOSEPH ~\. ~-1.\~~- .JH .. 'li' ,JACK ETKl~ 'G 8 .. HOBl•;HT ;.;TOLZI~Eit<l 't17 RICHARD BALAGl'H ·r;:r ALAN ZIEGLER ''6:1 < 'LJ'FI' ~AFAN•Jo: '6!1 1\l!CHAEL LEVIN-l·~PSTI~lS 'G9 l·~dl tor·in-C'hief nutodne~s ~tanager .. ·-· E:clltot· 'EnlPritus . NPws Eultor Features Eqttor .. Al'tinr; F't>alure-s Edltut· .. Spurts Editor ,JUNIOR JIO,\RJ) .\Ian Kl••in ltjH lth•.hartl l'Ut'tPI'Stlll, ,)1. '\;tl Dick Danl'el '70 ....... Peter Drotman 'G 9 - George Volanakls '·6 U Joel Rubenzahl '&8 ................................... . Henry Rines '6V ......... . Paul Gerber '68 Gary PrPvost '(lq A·l L~vi 'G~ .\~~m·iatP ~I'W~ Jo;U!tor ..• \~H't !S\ews Ect!tor .......... l.lhotogru.11hel~ LoC\al Advet·tising l'.-1anaget .... ... ~ubscntlt~un !l.lanaget ........... :Satlonal Atlvertising Manage! ....... Distribution Manage! ............ Circulation 'Managel ... Associate Sports Edlto .. Assistant Sports Editor STAFF 1\lE~iBEBS NE\\'S: Bdan Hollt-). Lf'n Kugan, Curl l'.:!nglebart. Hal Hoss. Roy Fnlitf'nnan. ~Pal Onn]on. Hill B\t-dmun. H.ll'hanl RosPnhel'g, H.ich Gilman. l•'·f!~.\'fl'Rit~~: ~tt>VP Fox. Brian Izzo. ~(·ott SiP.glPr, ~f'll KramPr. !'PORTS: ~-like f'm·hs. ll!ike Klayman. Jeff Kurzius, Len Simon. Idol Students Concordiensis offers its congratulations to Gary Fidel upon his election to the editorship of the Idol. We are sure that his qualifications are a match for the demands of the job and we hope that he will enjoy co-operation from the student body. Mr. Fidel's election to this post at the tender rank of freshman should not evoke serious questions as to whether he is experienced or skilled enough to handle the position. Evaluation by the Idol's previous senior board and the sub- sequent election should be sufficient indicators along this line. It seems very clear, however, that his election does point to a serious problem: lack of interest among upper- classmen. To state that there are no sophomores or juniors who are capable of editing the Idol is a ridiculous assertion, and one which is very likely untrue. But to say that there are no more than a very few sophomores or juniors, at a school of 1200, who are capable and desirous of editing the college's literary magazine is a ridiculous statement which unfortunately holds true. Obviously, all those who want to hold the job may not be capable; but the number of applicants was small, thus indicating a lack of interest in the first place. And we are certainly not suggesting an ex- treme position, Le. that everyone should apply, no matter how fit or unfit he may be. Grim Saga To the Editor: SAGA, just li!ke great great grandma used to make. But then again, I only remember great great grandma in her last few days. ~he was a senile one or two hundred years old, and had forgotten just about everythmg she had ever known. I can re- rr.en·.her when she'd cook for me, how l'd reluctantly accept what she had prepared and then politely feed the dog under the table when her back was turned. Yes, some of those West Col- lege meals are reminiscent of great great grandma's. Only at West College the dogs. usually refuse to eat whatever's been served. Physical fitness is the word of the day, but whoever got into shape on mystery meat, pota- mes, and grease? It's no wonder why ClearasH, Listerine, and Bromo are so big on campus. I ask that the· administration in charge of student welfare please come to those who take their meals at West College for their comments and suggestions. I'm sure that the students would be glad to express their feel- ,ngs,. and Saga Food only too happy to accommodate them. Mr. T '70 (Nan:e withheld by request) Fishy Pranks To the Editor: Undoubtedly some mistakes are made when admitting a freshman class to Union Col- Lege, and, understandably, most are unavoidable. Unfortunately chose who are mistakenly admit- ted, make their mark on the con:n.un.ty of students by be- lieving that their college enjoy- ment n,ust come at the expense : f others. Expense is appro- priate for it has two relevent .:!onnotations with which I will leal later. For the last few nights, the occupants of the third floor of West Col:ege have been the vic- tims of abysmal immaturity by ~orne residents of this floor and another. 1 he acts to which I will allude merit closer atten- Eon than n:any others for they were intentional acts and not ;~mp!y ~nebriated frolic. The f)ar ticipants, independent of one another, V';ere sober (in a lim- .ted sense) when they acted re- 3pective1y, and very much aware ::>f their handiwork. The point that should be clear here is that in the elec- tion of the editor of the Idol, a major campus publication, there was a dearth of applicants from the classes which logically should provide them. A similar situation occurred at the time Concordiensis sought applications for the edi- torship. The fact that the new Idol editor is an underclass-. man does not reflect either incompetence or genius on his part. Rather, it seems to indicate that the sophomore and junior classes are eitter grossly indolent or that they harbor abysmal feelings of inferiority. Whatever their problem may be, we hope that the usual flock of vociferous critics from these groups will control their flights around the Idol, perhaps by realizing that they can effect desired changes much 1rtore quickly by simply working for these changes than by making strange noises from the sidelines. I am referring to two isolated •ctions by two boys manifesting wh3t I ccnsider to be the ulti- mate in Jack of good sense and respons:bility, and completely ;ontrary to the spirit of good ·~n. Thursday morning, water \Vlth odorous ammonia was )cured under the door of a room on the third floor, not my c wn, and one of the hall ash- ;ans was filled with the same md left resting against the closed door, no doubt in hope .hat when the door was opened .he room would be thoroughly jrenched. The perpetrator ob- tained his goal and the room ·;·:.:. . ~ .. North College Concordiensis wishes to praise Dean 0. Edward Pol- lock and the Student Council for their recent actions. Dean Pollock has sanctioned the Union Inter-residence Council's request for the temporary use of North College as a guest house. In light of the possible advantages the dorm would provide for Union students and considering the college's present plans for the building, Dean Pollock's decision seems to be a wise one. Also deserving praise are the stu- dents who initiated the proposal and who spent many hours developing and refining the plan. And with respect to the Student Council, we are happy to see that this body decided in favor of a resolution rec- ommending that the voting age be lowered to eighteen .. This action, although tardy, was a daring and farsighted one for the Council. We hope that the Council's :future deci~ions wUl be motivated by this same spirit, that is, an interest in the formation and implementation of new, stim- ulating and worthwhile ideas. was well saturated with water anct ammoma. The tollowmg mght 1 was part of a s1mi1ar drama when mto my room was poured beer and water 1ll a tou! smeumg combmatlon. The great disgrace involves the expense I ment10ned. The imtml expense was that whtch involved thet <llrect mconvemence to the resl- uents 01 the part1cu1ar rooms af- fected. And more important, however, 1s that expense which each member of the llvmg umt wul be torced to absorb because of the damage done to the car- petmg in the hallway. Thus, for each orop ot beer etc. on the noor, anct there were enough drops to create blotches of con· sH:terabie size m two places, wiH come money ±rom art the stu- dents on the floor, even those not m the 1east connected. 'J:hls 1s surely to be resented by a11. Of course there has been much folly and raving through- om ·1he yl;)ar, but l uo not oe· ue\ e that good humor as \.hls usually 1s, carries the same ue- gree of lrresponsllllllty as uo me planned and sober acts of these couege boys, durmg 1ast weelt. Perhaps these narrow-minded boys shOU<d return to therr .I!'Jsh- luu, N.Y. hlgh schools, or what· ever, where perhaps more house~brea.IOng w111 1ead them to the revaLuation that such di- rectlY sp1te1m acts only repre- sent to others tbe1r mablhty to purposetully and constructiVely express themselves. Truly yours, Eugene Kokot '70 R.A. Runs To the Editor: I wish to become a Student Body Representative to the All Col1ege Council. Being a Resi- dent Advisor for freshmen and upperclassmen, and a fratermty member, I hear a good share of student opinion. Some of the issues I would like to see dis- cussed and acted upon by the A.C.C. are: a revision and ex- pansion of the present social ru1es, including extending the midnight rule for Friday and Saturday to 1 AJM.; secondly, a look mto the Bookstore's bus- mess practices; thirdly, an ex- amination of the fraternities' position on campus, in regards to their future and the admin- istrations attitude towards them; fourthly, the formation of an independent men's organiza- tion that would offer social func- tions; and fifthly, and evaluation by the students of the new cur- nculum. The All College Council was expressly created to provide better communications among students, faculty and adminis· tration. I feel that I could pro- vide the student body with a representative voice in the council. All too often a person who is elected to a college of- fice forgets the constituency which he represents. I do not intend to forget the people I represent, but rather, act as their voice in an organization which can influence their en- Vlronment so much. If I am elected I wLI do l!tY utmost to see that the s1Uu..Ia gets more through the at:~!un.:; of the All College Counc11. Thank you, Gerry Grau '68 Activist To the Editor: I wish to present myself as a candidate for the All-Col:lege Council. At present the student gov- ernment consists ·Of '20 Student Council members, 4 .class presi- dents and the All-Co~lege Coun- cil members. With a few ex- ceptions, the Student; Council members have done little except attend meetings and vote. In the past year the Student Coun- cil has accomplished 1,) approv- ing the tax committee budget, approval of which is almost au- tomatic, 2) vote down a reso· lution in favor of off-campus housing, in spite o:f a student petition with over 700 signa- tures, 3) free the Concordiensis and the Idol to elect :their edi- tors, which they actually did be- fore and 4) approve, but only hesitatingly and without any in- itiative of its own, a resolution urging the lowering of the vot· ing age to 18 in New York State. In retrospect the only significant actions are the first, which is almost automatic, and the last. The ACC has done little ex- cept back the administration policy on off-campus housing and end a ridiculous and un- necessary controversy it started by closing its meetings to the public. Its role in the housing controversy was little more than an administration mouthpiece. The ACC did not investigate or present the true facts on the housing controversy, that for nnanc1al reasons the dorms had to be filled, to the college com· munity. I have been extremely active in college affairs as News Edi- tor of the Concordiensis, as a member of the IRC, the political forum and the freshman soccer team. 1 was also associated with the Fair Franchise Com- mittee (to lower the voting age to 18), started the ·~ad hoc\ Vet- narn Committee, and am cur- rently circulating the Campus Opinion Poll at registration. I see my role as a ACC mem- ber as one of making it more responsive to the college com- munity and making the ACC an initiator of, as well as a reacter to, campus activity. The ACC must now initiate a review of the Comp Ed. Program, of the lack of books other than course books in the Bookstore, and of the future of the college (or co- ed, with a graduate program, as- sociate with the State Univer- sity, etc.). I am, in short, JJunning on a platform of being a \Student Activist.\ Sincerely, Richard Balagur '69. NON VAl A SPA1AR£ 1A NEV£ PER DAR STRADA AL1A MACCHINA? .:·-.;,:- .. •.- :.~> NON J=INCHE AVREMO ESAl.IRITO LA NOSTRA PROVVISTA Df GENESEE. ·, ,- . . - I By ltiCIIARD BALAGUR·~and' iJ~tFFORD SAFANE~ • -:;'(.;'::~::-: .:: > -; On Saturda¥ March 11, 1:olk- singer Eric Andersen Wi\Slpre- sented 1n concert by the Sttt(lent :lenate of Saint Rose Co!fege. iHt. Andersen, whose ~ew. al- bum Take Tw() Will ·be :released on the Vanguard label', proved himself to be an :exce·~lent :;per- former and has the potential to ·1 go far. In general, thlj concert was well played, althougli spotty perfOimances occasiobal<ly. mar- red his presentation, with\': the .) second half ·Of the 'concert .. Q_eing noticeably better. Perhaps ·.this improvement wa,s due to\ the llmitations of the sound ·: sys. tern. 1 Interview In an interview the jlrev;ious ... evening, Mr. Andersen -.;was sharply ·critical of the confQrm- ist pressures of our so(!iety, He felt that college isn't worth the .. o~ cm1 basis placed on it; it isl.\l't a pia :e of real learning, AU' you do is \pay a lot of money for u.arks and you go out and .get 1 jobs.\ Society is trying to im· · pose a way on you; you are con- trolled by it. · In his concert, Mr. Andersen lashed out at our .conforming ana hypercritical attitudes in ''Sixteen Year Grudge.\ a- de- vastating satire on our educa- tional and moral values. Necessities i\Ir. Andersen also believes that experience and change are necessities of life. Yo11-have to be your own thermometer to change. In his Song, \'fhe Hhust- ;_ 1 ler·' Andersen criticized t ose who didn't see this change. You said keen on the s!lDnyside That life was just a rain· bow ride A silver studded surf· board glide i On the wine of wt~es to keep you high Eclectic Anderse:h Andersen has been influenced by many sources. His style en- compasses rock, traditional folk, 1 jazz, and rhythm and blues; the use of a driving beat, time changes, and biting ty~ics show these· sources. ( Th? singer likes The Beatles, Mamas, !fnd Papas, Bob Dylan, Buffalo Springfield, jazz alto saxaphonist John J:-Iandy, and pianist Bill Evans.) Andersen has taken · these in- fluences and has intorporated them into his persoi!al style. Hopefully, hi& audience will grow, for he is a musician to watch. the Genesee Momen;t! TH£ G~NE'iE£ 8R[WIIl~ CO., INC 1 AOCI-I[ST£11, N. 'f. c LATIN- EXC: ~or J~, ' Stuc!ent.s 26 Days i1 Chile Argenti1 Hrugua: 111 Meet the I ish Youth • Understam this region e SEE LATif\ c. Masadi 145 ~ NewY[ 212 J Tl V4 )

. lolk- ·1 al- ~;per- .:~ to mar- the .) .Ji.eing ·.\this j\ the ·f .... ·.;was He the ~J a for .get 1 im- :con- in a· de- .-. {.. are to to Rust- ;_j those ge. • <} : .I en- folk, I es; the , time s show likes Papas, John ese in- porated style. will cian to .... _:.::.: \::! ·._:: . ·-=~ ··:-·:-; fl. 'f. Challenges Grayson; ~~-Y KO!ts ''Old Man!t~ * * n Col'ege wHl soon open its regular lacrosse ·season after rough weather in the Southland. The Garnet, in pre-season .• 5 , ...... .,9•· lost two wh11e wmnmg .one contest. Losses came at the hands \\utu~;;Luu and Lee. College and the Catonsville Lacrosse Club· over the Washington Lacrosse Club. • * * * * I LATIN-AMERICAN EXCURSION MONARCH CLASS NOTES I for J~wish College Stutlents • Age J 8-25 26 Days in Ju,ne-July 1967 Chile Argentina Uruguay Mexico Peru Brazil 111 Meet the Latin-American Jew- ish Youth • Understand the problems of this region e SEE LATIN AMERICA Call or write: Masada of the ZOA 145 E. 32nd Street New York, N. Y.1 0016 212 MU 3-9200 and STUDY GUIDES at JOHN'S NEWS 155 Clinton St. DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dinning Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Not+ Street Open Daily I 0 to I A.M . Sundays 5 P.M. to I A.M. Deansgate® The Articulate Plaid Suit ' . Ve~y Proper .•• Very Coolo Par~ial to plaids-interesd11g .Plaids? Co~e in and see our Deansgate wartn weatber collecuon. The fabric: a ~;dsp 55% Dacron* polyesterf4S% wool bleqd that keeps its good manners on the warmest days. Important: these suits are tailored in Deans· · gat¢'s own understated natural shoulder construc- tion. and there ate seven colors to choose from. $.75.00 THURSDAY & FRIDAY TILL NINE I 7 Sessoms Wins 5() Yard Dash in State Championships By MIKE KLA. YMAN The Union indoor track team rounded out tl:.eir 1967 season by placing sev- enth in the March 11 Union College Invitational meet and then sixth in the New York State Champio11ships held the following week in Memorial Field House. Three hundred seventy-five cntnes from eighteen colleges ccmpeted in the eleventh an- nu~l Invitational. Springfietd Co1lege captu•red the meet title w1th a total of 31 points, fo:- ·lowed by Lei\loyne and Am- herst. 1t was the first tirr:e Am- herst had sent representatives to the Union Inviational. The Garnet ranked seventh ~~·hen Al Sessons placed second :n the EO yard dash, and Art :\1 cCabe took third position for h:s 21 '1\ broad jump. Firsts in these events and in the high [,urdlcs were scored by Spring- fie'd's Redwood who was cited for best ::performance in the n:eet. Sessl)ns again was the top Gat net sc<»r~r in State Cham- pionship WJitlt, his. first in the 50 yatd d'a~h~ .t,ying the 5.5 sec- ond Field House record in the first heat. L.<Jrry McFarlane, in the best ::pe 1·formance of hts <:areer, [)laced: second to the Rochester entry in the high hurd~es. ~1cC:.be bettered his jump ·l)f ,fbe ;previous week by 11;4 inches tOo :t~l;:e third in the broad jump, Norma Lasda also qua'.ified for 'the finals with a .20'5 ';G.\ but fai!-€d to place. The cindern~cn.'s 01i~e relay team of John P€ter:s, Ed l\'lonfred, Neal Gordon, amd A.! Sessoms took fifth placE, lec:llly Gordon's 53.9 and .Sesson11s' 53 fiat on the an- thor leg. Tile filial Garnet point was captuwed by sophomore George Ga.vd n~r's shot-put of 43'1llh\. The te~n1 ;t.otal of 14 points placed the Garnet sixth out of the 13 mennb er colleges of the l\'ew YOJ'k ;~lt:!'lte Track and Fie'd Assoda.tion participating. I MEAN YOU'RER£AllYOt\rlfi£WAY, BUDDYBOi! ALL THOSE:ID8\S YoU'vE BEEN 1-HTnN&ME WfTH!' N:O.W£YoUR C+tAl\ICE ~ Wf1AT COULD BE i(J-R£ATER? A NEW SfOOTER. / AND WHAT COULD BE C Lt\991ER. T-HAN 9AYINGuiM WITtl GENERAL TELEP-HONE&_fLECTRON f~~~? TI-fArs STt\TlBI Wtf-AT COULD11JP fHAT? \ A NEW5COOTER. / Coach Ron Coleman was es· peciaily pleased with Al Ses· soms' performance in the state championship, won by Roches- ter, especially since Sessoms had been sick aU week and un- ab e to attend practice since the previous Monday. Coleman also found McCabe's perform· ance in the Championships, and Sessoms' in the Invitational en· couraging. Projection Going on to project into his 1irst spring season with the Gar- net, Coleman is looking forward to an \enjoyab!e season.\ He noted specitic deficiencies on both the freshman and varsity levels, especially in the pole vau't, and also in the discus and javelin on the freshman team. However the coach is con- vinced that the freshmen show '·a !ot of promise\ and feels that present deficiencies could be filled as interested students continue to sign up. Coleman is optimistic about the upcoming season beginning with a home meet against Trin- ity on April 19, and is deter- mined that any problems that may face the Garnet will not be due to tbe team not being in shape. Coach Coleman con- c:uded that \the team may lack a little confidence, but I'm con- fident they'll gain this through the practices.\ The varsity track schedule is as follows: April 19 (h) Trinity 3:30 April 22 (h) Rochester 3:00 May 3 (a) St. Lawrence 2:30 May 6 (h) Middlebury 3:00 · May 10 (a) R.P.I. 3:30 . l\1ay 16 (a) Hamilton 3:30 May 20 (a) New York State Championships at Brock· port 2:00 YOU'VE GDT \T ACED! WORKING-Wlft4 T-HE REAL PROS ..• TfiE GUYS \JJHO ~OW W+tA19 HAPPENING IN RESEARCH EXOTIC METALt; A~ ADVA~C ED TEC+l NOLOGY. WfiAT COULD BEJ\T IT? \ -A t{EW scoorE R. / AND THE MONEY! yoU'LL 8&\ ROLtiNG- IN BRE'AO! WffAT'S G-OING TO BE YOUR Fl2ST MAJOR PUR.CHA~E YOUSRIGHT• TALENTED•YOUNC-El'fCUTJVEVDU? ~ SIX Nf?W SCO OIE'RS. / At General Telephone & Electronics, we want people who have learned how to think. We help teach them to think bigger. G ~E GENERAL TELEPHONE OP'ER:ATING COMPANIES • GENERAL TELEPHONE DIRECTORY COMPANY • AUTOMATIC 71.& ~ ELECTRIC • LENKURTUECTRIC • ~YLVA.NIA ELECTRIC PRODUCTS • GT&ELABORATORI!i:S • GT&E INTERNATIONAL

JAZZ 'AND ROCK Page 4 Concordy Sports COUNCIL FAVORS LOWER VOTING AGE .Page3 Cagers Close With Victory; Frosh May Help Next Year By GARY PREVOST and LEN SIMON The Garnet cagers defeated Trinity 88- 78 in their final game of the season to close a disappointing season at 9-11. A loss at Hamilton the previous night had ended the· cagers belated drive for a .500 season. After an opening game victory over Pratt, the Garnet fell into their first losing streak, dropping away contests to Norwich, Kings Point and Drew. Returning from Christmas recess the Garnet put together their longest win strea:k of the season, taking four consecutive home games. The high light of the streak was a 79-75 win over previ- ously undefeated Hamilton. These victories brought the Garnet's record to 5.3 and set the pattern for the season-wining at home and los· mg on the road. A disastrous trip to Binghamton proved to be the turning point of the season. The Garnet were defeated 57-52 by a lightly regarded Harpur squad. The loss started the Garnet on a six game losing streak. Williams and Rochester, both heavy favorites found the Dutchmen at the top of their form. Union led Williams with ten minutes re- maining in the second half before the Ephmen pulled away, and against Rochester, the Garnet played one of their steadiest games of the sea· son. A pair of one-point losses at the hands of RPI and St. Lawrence cost the Garnet the ICAC title and after a lackluster effort against Clark- son, the cagers stood at 5-9. With momentum from easy victories over Mid- dlebury and Stevens the Garnet avenged their earlier defeat with a resounding 76-68 win over RPI. The victory over the ICAC champs was the highlight of the season. Inconsistent In the pre-season preview Coach Evans felt that his two biggest problems would be choosing a starting lineup, and Jack of outside shooting. His fears were born out by the season. The in- consistency of most of the players caused Evans to continually juggle the lineup, and Bill Priscott proved to be the only consistent outside shooter. The ball-handling was a problem again this year as the hoopsters averaged almost 20 turnovers a garne. Reboundin~ may have been the Garnet's strong point as they were outrebounded by only three teams all year. In spite ofsuch control of the boards, the Garnet was unable to generate a consistent fast break. The Garnet lacked a consistent high scorer from whom they could expect 15-20 points a game. Only five times did individuals score 20 or more points in a single game and the four highest scorers on the team averaged between 10 and 11 points per game. Tom Urbelis led the scoring parade with 10.9 per garne and was a • • . Who determines what your life shall be?What determines the real nature and destiny of man? If it be God, then there is more to prayer than mankind dreams, and every trial in our lives is an opportunity I I' ! to discover man \in His image.\ Hear this public lecture titled I \What Determines Your Stand~ ~ point?\ by GLENN L. MORNING, r C.S.B., member of the Board of !1 lectureship of The First Church of 1 I Christ, Scientist, in Boston, Mass. J ' Et Christian ScieP.~~ lecture SUNDAY, APRIL 2, 3:30 P.M. Memor'al Chapel Sponsored by First Church of Christ, r Scientist, Scheneclody. Admission Free • Everyone is welcome surprisingly strong rebounder with 6.3 per game. Bill Priscott was second in scoring with. 10.8 and was the team's best foul shooter with 78'Yc. Co· captain Greg o:son averaged 10.5 ,points per game and scored team high of 26 against Alfred. Fitz Turner averaged 10.1 points per game and was the leading rebounder with 11.2 per game. Co-captain Ron Giancola, hampered .throughout the season with injuries averaged 8.5 points per game. Steady Tad Knight averaged 7.8 points per game and led in field goal percent with 55o/c. The season's most improved player was Jim Derrick, who averaged 7.1 points per game and was ~econd leading rebounder. Prospects Bright Prospects look much brighter for ne:xt season. Last year's high scorer Bill Niedel will be re- turning from a year abroad and should anchor the team up front. Derrick, Knight, Turner, and Priscott will also be returning to battle for start- ing positions in the .frontcourt. Priscott could also be moved to a guard, and is joined there by Mumford. Also contributing to next year's squad will be the freshman team, which lost only three games all year. Pete Garrison led the frosh scoring with 18.8 per game, followed by Craig Carlson with 11.9. Jim Getman hit for 10.9 points per game, and Roger Harrison had 9.8. Barry Katzman tal- lied 6.4 points per game, followed by .Jeff Kirk· patricw with an even 5.0. All of these freshmen have a good chance of moving up to ·the varsity next year and seeing considerahle action. BB Notes The Garnet's 79-75 win over Hamilton repre- sented a fantastic upset, by comparative scores at least. Prior to the game, Union had lost to Drew by five, a team which lost to RFI by 54, and when Hamilton beat RPI by 14, the Garnet were established as a 73 point underdog. • . . Union will host MIT, Hope, and Lehigh in a Christmas Tournament on December 28, 29, and 30 in 1967 .... The Garnet cagers 1967-68 sched- ule shows a couple of changes in addition to the Christmas tourney-a single game against Pratt has been dropped along with one of the two games against RPI and Hamilton. Hartford Col- lege has been added to the schedule .... Union's 1967-68 schedule shows 9 Saturday games as usual but only one on Wednesday and instead there will be 5 Tuesday night games .... RPI backed into the ICAC title this year with a 4-1 record when Clarkson and St. Lawrence both blew chances to tie by losing t() Alfred. . . . Union's season may have been frustrating but the most frustrating incident of the year may belong to Hobart. The Statesmen returning h()me from Harpur after losing its eighth straight r()ad game had their bus break down, stranding them in the middle of nowhere. Junior Year Q 1n New York Three undergraduate colleges offer students from all parts of the country an opportunity to broaden their educational experience by spending their Junior Year in New York New York University is an integral part of the exciting metropolitan community of New York City-the business, cultural, artistic. and financial center of the nation. The city's extraordinary resources gfeatly enrich both the academic program and the experience of living at New York University with the most cosmopolitan student body in the world. This program is open to students recommended by the deans of the colleges to which they will return for their c;fegrees. Courses may be taken in the · School of Commerce School of Education g, Washington Square College of Arts and Science Write for brochure to Director, Junior Year in New York N E W Y 0 R K U N IVERS ITY New York, N.Y 10003 l ----------------~----==----~--===--------- Matmen Take ICAC Title; Four Place First at RPI By JEFP .KURZIUS 'l?he Union College wrestling team completed a. highly successful season by walking .off with the Independent CoLlege Athletic Conference wrestling tournament title at RPI on March 4. The Garnet scored a total of 94 points to cop the tourney in which five out of six league teams eompeted. RPI finished second with 81 points; and they weve followed by Clarkson, 53; St. Law- rence, 32; and Hobart 30. The victo~y was Union's first in the history of the tournament which was won by RPI the past two years. Next year, the tournament will be held. at Union. The 94 points were the result of a well-rounded team effort in which every member placed at least third. Union's four class champions included Tom Tripp at 145 and Al Baskous at 191. Both Tripp and Baskous finished the regular season unbeaten and climaxed this with three wins in the tournament. Each of Baskous' wins were by virtue of a pin. Union's other individual win- ·flers were Ron Ianotti at 130, who also won last year, and Frank D'Antuono at 123. Both D'Antu- ono and Ianotti won handily .by scores of 10-1 and 12-0 respectively. Union's second place finishers were Stu Rubin, wllo lost a 7'2 decision, Jeff Kurzius, who lost a tough 3-0 decision to RPI's Eric Blair; Dick Ros- ener, who was decisioned by Clarkson's standout Bob :Monks; and Ba·rry Cornwall, who lost a dis- rutable decision to Mark Abronovic of RPI: Un- ion's- scoring was completed by the third:i>lace finishes of Brian Crandall, Ken Merz, and Pete Kenyon. Top's Top DCL Gary Prevost's 649 and Larry Martin~s 628 highlighted action in the Dutch Classic League in its last two weeks which toek place prior to vacation. First place Top's Bar increased its league .lead to foul' points by taking three points from Bernie's Mid-I:I:ill Tavern in the position round and sweeping Kelly's Bar the following' week. Prevost scored games of 210, 223, 216. to lead Top's over Bernie's while Tom Benedict scored 3L8 in the win over Kelly's. Teddy K's Tavern cut Moffett's Liquor l;itore's third place lead to 41J2 points behind Martin's G28, scored on games of 220, 204,. 204. Garuso·s Bar won three points from Vito'~ Boys behind Jim McBride's 554 and Don Hovey's 539. Vito's won one point with a league record single of 996. No Alaska 'I' he Garnet hopes for an Alaska trip ended earlier this month when JY.[r, Ketz: was informed by HAWAII · AM:U that the Centennial Tour- ney was off. CAMPlJS CLEANERS 527 NOTT ST. Opposite Union College 393-5472 $499 DEPARTURES FROM NEW YORK JUNE 10 and JUNE 24 CJ! ~3 includes: l.as Vegas, Los Angeles, San francisco FUGAZY TRAVEL BUREAU 434 STATE STREET 374-4111 or call Jack Etkin, Fugazy Campus Rep., Chi Psi 346-9829 sa·t··o:e ; . l ' I '·. ' PRESS WITHOUT REST 'The end of rumple and wrinkle is here announced. Slacks of perm- anently pressed polyester and cotton are now available at this Establishment, in preferred neu• tral colourings. An examination is invited. G.98 THE SQUIRE SHOP . I I I I ) I l ~r J t· ' ,. I ~ I F :UIC I Jam v:is:it NEI The Unioi cil and .the U:nanmous re ing for a fur 'lege social J Council, at ·~ tonight, wul may bring it 'l'he UlC I provides for weekend visi and permits from 1 P .1Vl. The Student vide~ in add the 5P.M. tc Micke Mic UIC, explain hjs proposal The Stadel passed unan The UIC act absent mem credited witl move. 1. Union that they c~ majority, cor when women College .shot in areas whe 2. 'l'he Co its in. loco P the studentE tern becausE simply does and when later, a colle house room molie natun \local sale motels. UD{ Michalski' mously .app1 its neeting Farallel r dent Counci ed this weel Michalski College will cause a min request the financial co the decisim the initial c Michalski dependents priority for College Ho weekend mt by Monday, Activities 0 are dorm re ference anc April 20. A tire collegE Wednesday, fee is paya Student Ac1 tration. 'l'he BlUE have a simil limit of pri< day, April day, 1\'[ay ~ men. and ' May 9 . WI The Uni elected Ric of WRUC lY.I were: .Jarne: of to :Boar• ll.eing() ld, ber of Chi ing as 'Vice ations. He to serve u structure, n lems incuml exiJansion. Stillman, is .~urrentlJ station. A! Pl\esident h internal fur ~ tion. Office Killian, al ant, is an He is in cl: possibility o F.M. radio. the organiz{ rector. :Bob Dou§ responsible Saratoga Sp

JAZZ 'AND ROCK Page 4 Concordy Sports COUNCIL FAVORS LOWER VOT.i NG A,GE Page 3 Cagers Close With Victory; Frosh May Help Next Year HJ (;ARY PRE\'OST and I.EN SIMON Tht.' Ca l'lll't L'agers defeated Trinity 88- 713 in thl'il' final game of the season to cLose a disappointing season at 9-11. A loss at Hamilton thL' }>t'evious night had ended the cagers belated drive for a .500 season. After un opening ga!lle vietory 01·er Pratt, the !;armt fell into tiH•ir lirst losing streak, dropping away contests lD '\un\ich, Kings Point and Drew. Heturning from Christmas recess the Garnet put to_getlwr their longl'st \\'in strPak of the season, taking four c·unsc·c·utiH' home games. The high light of the streak \\'as a 7!J-75 win oYer previ- ously undt.'feate!l Hamilton. Th~se victories brought the Garn l't's reeord to 5-3 and set the pattern for the 'L'ason --·\\ ining at h<Jme and los- mg on tho road. .\ .tisastrou> tnp to Hmghamton proved to be tht' turning point of the season. The Garnet 11 <.'re dt>fPatl'd 57-52 by a lightly regarded Harpur :,quad. Tht• lnss ,tarted the Garnet on a six game losing stnak. \\' iltiams and Rochester, both heavy favorites found the Dutehmcn at the- top of their form lnion IPd \\ illiams ll'ith ten minutes re- mainmg in the spt·orHI half before the Ephmen pulled a \lay. and al~ainst Hochester. the Garnet played um• uf their stPadiest games of the sea- son. :\ pair of one-point losses at the hands of RPI and St. Lawrence cost the Garnet the ICAC titll' awl aftN a laeklustcr effort a~ainst Clark- >'on, tht' ca~c·rs stood at 5-9. With mompntum from easy \'ictories over Mid- dlebury and Sterens the Garnet avenged their t>arlier dcfpat 1\'ith a resounding 76-68 win over RPI. The victory O\'N th<' ICAC ehamps was tht' hi~hlh.!ht of tlw season lnconsistent In the prP-sl'ason previell' Coach Evans felt that his t11 t> biggest problems would be choosing a ~tarting lint>u p, and lack of outside shooting. His fears \H'rc born out by the season. The in- ronqstC'ney of most of the pla:-.·C'rs caused Evans to continually ju~g]p the lineup. and Bill Priscott pro\'e!i tt' hl' thl' only consistent outside shooter. Thr ball-hand ling \ras a problem again this }'ear as the> hoopstt>rs aY<!ragcd almost 20 turno\·ers a ganw. HP lmuncli n~ may han been the Garnet's strong point as tlwy \\t'fe outrebouncled by only thn•t• t<·ams all YL'ar. In spite of such control of thL· boards, tlw tian1C't \·as unahiC' t<l generate a eon,;istent fast hrcak. Thl' Garnet lac-kt>d a consistent high scorer from \\hom they cou 1d t>Xpect 15-2() points a game. Only file times did indil'iduals score 20 or mon> points in a single game and the four highest seorrro; on tht> team aYeraged between 10 ;.md 11 points prr ::.;amc. Tom Crbelis led the SC'oring paradL' \l'ith I 0.9 per game and was a • Who determines what your life shall be? What determines the real nature and destiny of rnan?lf it be Gael, then there is more to prayer than mankind dreams, and every trial in our lives is an opportunity to discover man \in His image.\ Hear this public lecture titled \What Determines Your Stand- point?\ by GLENN L. MORNING, C.S.B., member of the Board of lectureship ofThe First Church of Christ 1 Scientist, in Boston, Mass. Christian Sci~P.:~ lecture m -- ' SUNDAY, APRIL 2, 3:30 P.M. I of Ch•l\ ~~ Memor'ol Chapel Sponsored by First Church Scientist, Sthenec~ady. Admission Free • Eve=.:: I_. I surprisingiy strung rcbotmdcr with 6.3 per game. Bill Priscott was seC'ond in scoring with 10.8 and \\'as the team's best foul shooter with 78' (. Co- eaptain Greg 0 son averaged 10.5 points per game and scored team high o.f 26 against Alfred. l<'itz furner averagl'd 10.1 points per game and was the leading rebounder with 11.2 per game. Co·<:aj: tain Ron Giancola, hampered throughout the Sl'ason with injuries averaged 8.5 potnts per game. Steady Tad Kni~ht aYeraged 7.8 points per game and led in Held goal percent with 55';. Tht> ~f'ason 's most improved player was Jim Derrick, 11ho a\·eraged 7.1 points per gam<' and \\'a~ <;prond kad ing rr houndC'r. Prospects Bright Prospects look much brighter for next season. Last year's high scorer Bill Niedel will be re- turning from a year abroad and should anchor the team up front. Derrick, Knight, Turner, and Priscott will also be returniNg to battle for start- ing positions in the frontcourt. Priscott could also be moHd to a guard, and is join0d there by ~lumford. Also contributing to ~1ext year's squad will be the freshman team, wh1eh lost only three games all year. Pete Gnrrison led the frosh scoring with 18.8 per game. followed by Craig Carlson with 11.9. Jim Getman hit for 10.9 points per game, and Roger Harrison had 9.8. Barry Katzman tal- lied 6.4 points per game, followed by Jeff Kirk- patricw with an PVrn 3.0. All of these freshmen have a good ehancr of moving up to the varsity next year and s<>t'ing eonsiderahle action. BB Notes The Garnet's 79-75 win over Hamilton repre- sented a fantastic upset, by comparative scores at least. Prior to the game, Union had lost to Drew by live, a team which lost to RPI by 54, and \\hen IIamilt<JR beat RPI by 14, the Garnet were established as a 73 point underdog. . . . Union will host .!\liT, Hope, and Lehigh in a Christmas Tournament on December 28, 29, and 30 in 1967 .... The Garnet cagers 1967-68 sched- ule lihO\\'s a couple of changes in addition to the Christmas tourney-a single game against Pratt has been dropped along with one of the two games against RPI and Hamilton. Hartford Col- lege has been added to the schedule .... Union's 1967-68 schedule shows 9 Saturday games as usual but only one on Wednesday and iNstead there will be 5 Tuesday night games .... RPI barked into the ICAC title this vear with a 4-1 record when Clarkson and St. · Lawrence both blew chances to tie by losing to Alfred .... Union's seas<Jn may have been frustrating but the most frustrating incid;>nt of the year. may belong to Hobart. The St:ltesmen returnmg home from Harpur after losing its eighth straight road game had their bus brC'ak down. stranding them in the midcre of nowhe~l'. -------- J niorYear (/) 1n New York Three uncletgiddu<lle colleges of!·er s1udents from all p.:uls of ihc cow,try an orportunity to broaclcn thei1· eclucational experience by spending their Junior Year in New York ~t'W York Urliv,·r..,I!y is an mtegr.!l part of the exciting metropolitan community of 0Jew York C1tv--the bu~iness. cultural. artistic, ar:cl financial center of the nation. The city's cxtraorclinuy rcsou rces greatly enric-h both tlw acaclen1ic program and the experience of li•~.ing at i\;ew York Unive1sity with the mmt cosmopolii.:~n 5tudcnt body in the world. This program is oren to students recommended by the deans of the colleges to which the~ will return for their degrees. Courses may be taken in the School of Commerce School oi Education Washington ~quare College of Arts and Scienn\ VVrite ior bro< hure t() Director, Junior Yt>tH in New York NEW YORK UNIVERSITY New York, N.Y 10003 Matmen Take ICAC Title; Four Place First at RPI Vol. 96- By JEFF KU RZIUS The Union Co·llege wrestling team completed a highly successful season by walking off with tl1e Independent College Athletic CoRferenct' wrestliNg tournament title at RPI oR l\Iareh 4. The Garnet scored a total of 94 points to cop t11e tourney in which five out of six league teams ron1peted. RPI finished second with 81 points; and they were followed by Clarkson, 53; St. Law- rence, 32; and Hobart 30. The victory was llnioR's first in the histery of the tournament which was won by RPI the past two years. Next year, the tournament will he held at URion. The 94 points were the re;;ult of a well-rounded team efi'ort in which every member placed at least third. Union's four class champions included Tom Tripp at 145 and Al Baskous at 191. Both Tripp and Baskous finished the regu!ar season unbeaten and climaxed this with three wins in the tournament. Each of Baskous' wins were by virtue of a pin. Union's other individual win- ners were Ron Ianotti at 130, who also won last year, and Frank D'ARtuono at 123. B<Jth D'Antu- ono and Ian0tti won handily by scores of 10-1 and 12-0 respectively. UnioR's second place finishers were Stu Rubin, who lost a 7-2 decision, JefT Kurzius, who lost a tough 3-0 decision to RPI's Eric Blair; Dick Ros- ener, who was derisioned by Clarkson's standout Bob l\!onks; and Barry Cor!lwall, who lost a dis- rut.:l'b:e d~cision to Mark Abronovic of RPL Un- lbl. U·.IC wn s s:·onm; was eo1np!eted by the thkd place ' • iinish~s cf Brian Crandall, Ken Merz, and Pete Kenyon. J . ... am Top~s Top DCL ·Visit NE The Unto cil and the Gary i'reYo~t·s li49 and Larry lVlartin's 628 unanmous r< ~ighlightcd actioN in the_ Dutch Classic Lea~ue in~~ t. ing for a fu1 Its last two weeks which took place pnor to · lege social vacation. First place T0p's Ba,r increased its Council at league !Pad_ t,o fot!r P~?ints by taki_ng three Pc;>i-pts tomght,' wuJ from Berme s M1d-HJ!l Tavern 111 the position ; may bring i round and ~weeping Kelly's Bar the following ' ,. The u IC week. ~ provides for : wcekead vi~ Prevost scored games of 21!), 223, 216. to lead ' and permits To,>\s over Bernie's \\ hilc Tom Benedict scored fl • fr 0 m 1 P.M. 3di in the win oV<..'r Kelly's. : The Studenl vided in adc Teddy K's Tavern cut l\Iofiett's Liquor Store's third place lead to 4 1 e points behind Martin's .,23, s;:ored on g..1mes of 220, 204, 204. the 5P.M. t · Micke Mi< '\ UIC, explai1 his proposal C:uu~n·s Bar won three points from Vito's Boys b::hind Jim McBride's 554 and Don Hovey's 539. . Vito's Wt!ll one point with a league record single c w of 996. - -- ---r=-=-=- :.:..====:c...-=-==-:-- -:....c.---=--=-=-=·-=-- ____:_:__;_....:::-=---=-=-:;;_-=--=; No Alaska The Stude passed unm The UIC ac· absent merr credited wit move. The Garnet hopes for an Alaska trip ended earlier this month when Mr. Ketz was informed by AMU that the Centennial T0ur- ney was off. HAWAII CAMPUS CLEANERS 527 NOTT ST. $499 DEPARTURES FROM N1EW YORK JUNE 10 and JUNE 24 u.' ;:> indvdes: l.us Vegas, Los Angeles, Sall Francisco Opposite Union College FUGAZY TRAVEL BUREAU ;. ' 434 SYATE STREET 374-4 'i 11 393-5472 o: call Jack Etkin, Fugazy Campus Rep., Chi Psi 346-9829 PnESS WITHOUT REST The end of rumple and wrinkle is here announced. Slacks of perm- anently pressed polyester and cotton are now available at this Establishment, in preferred neu- tral colourings. An exnmination is invited. li.!lH THE SQUIRE SHOP 1. Union that they c majority, co when wome: College sho in areas wh 2. The Cc its in loco 1 the student tern becaus simply doeE and when later, a co 11€ house room more natur \local sal motels. Un 18:) Michaiski mously app its meeting Parallel $! dent Counc ed this wee ·® I rs •· ' Michalski College w1l' cause a mir request the financial Cl the decisio the initial Michalski dependents priority for College HI weekend m by Monday Activities C are dorm r• ference an· April 20. ' tire colleg Wednesday fee is pay; Student Ac tration. The Blu have a simi limit of pri day, April day, May men, and May 9. The Un elected Ri• of WRUC ~ were: JamE of A.M. 0 Vi~Presic Rqljf~ Doi au(,J:;::;John . These five tive commi to the Boar Reingold, her of Chi ing as Vice ations. He to serve l structure, I !ems incum expansion. Stillman, is currentl: station. A President, l internal fu· tion. Offic1 Killian, a ant, is an He is in c: possibility < F.M. radio. the organiz rector. Bob Dou responsible Saratoga S!

