v \A Causa 1t I~ Persa Parole c ?L/ . Assai\ v · 9 a' ··-~---· /Ybf/G7 Vol. 98 No. l Founded at Union College 1877 SCHENECT·ADY, N.Y., SEPTEMBER 21, 1968 Orient.a.tion Ext.ra PRICE 1WENTY CENTS 1 Former Stoney Brook Dean ;lrt. · \FrAes.llm 550 e n· a rema speect'aslt'.nt.eHre' stiogf. h Post He,re choosing their academic programs\ he mine\ Edward Malloy, Dean of said. He warns freshmen not to begin ii Students, told CONCORDIENSIS this the academic year with \fixed ~ ~ 't week. opinions\ about college lite. Committee Proposes Co-Education for 1969 '. Mr. Malloy comes to Union this Mr. Malloy replaces 0. Edward ' Fall because he wants personal contact Pollock who left Union to become '.1· ' - he wants to work directly with Vice President for Student Personnel students. Services al Monmouth (' ollegc, Director of Admissions at Stony Monmouth, New Jersey. Bctw~en U Brook ffrom I962 to I968, Mr. Pollock's departure and Malloy's :i.· ' Malloy left the New York State School arrival, Charles Olton, assistant ~ because he was afraid that he was professor of history, has served as ~: becoming an \out-of-touch\ Acting Dean. t \1' bureaucrat. He desired the atmosphere Professor Olton described Malloy as If and closeness of a small liberal arts \an extremely able and energetic man ' college and he thinks that he has who is sensitive to what goes on in the found this at Union. minds of students.\ Living on campus in the South end Mr. Malloy did his undergraduate of South College, Dean Malloy hopes work at Columbia and received an to have constant contact with M.A. in guidance and student ,; freshmen. His advise to freshmen is to personnel administration from Union College may be on the verge of breaking 173 years of tradition as a sexually segregated college by admitting as many as 100 women students a year from today. The first formal step toward co-education was taken Friday on the eve of orientation for what may become the last all-male class at Union. The four members present of a six-man committee on co-education presented a meeting of the faculty with a 14-page report recommending be \open-minded\. \At a small liberal Teachers College of Columbia arts college, students have much time University. He later served as an to experiment and be flexible in assistant dean at Columbia. CO:NCORDIENSIS welcomes the Class of 72 Whitewash Averted As New Alli.ance ~q~~ T~e~~~u~i!f~he~:~.n~~s~i~ks ~~~~ ~rGS~ps:! :~ 2 Mr. ;1 not as White as the Admissions McKinnon said their main concerns at We invite all Frosh 't~ .;. Department painted it last spring in Union are education, though both said ~ '.. the annual announcement of they expect to become active in the acceptances. Black Alliance and other campus ~ Two Negro students will register in organizations ~ C. Memorial Field House next Tuesday as They wer~ accepted the second part of the incoming freshman class week of June and will reside on first thanks to eleventh hour recruitment floor Davidson House. ~ by Union's newly formed Black Mr. Pearson announced last spring , Alliance. that five Negro students had been to visit I Omitted from the Freshman accepted by the Admissions 1 ·,· Record because ·Of the.ir acceptance to Department and that one had chosen Union after the publication's deadline Union. Later he announced that the our offices I in June, are Ronald McKinnon and one Black student who had chosen · Christopher Upshur, both Schenectady Union decided to go elsewhere after he :1 residents and I 968 graduates of had paid $50 admission deposit. in Bronner House, North College . 1 ~ 1 , Lin 8 tontlHfigh hSchool. . t d d t A spoke~mandfor the Black 0 Alliance o 1 res men were m ro uce o said Union s A missions epartment 'l Union by the Black Allia11Ce, formed seemed to make no special effort to ' ~ last spring by Union's American Negro recruit Black students for this year's ! upperclassmen. Many faculty members freshman class. and student leaders had expressed The traditional lack of Black during Orientation !' concern about the policies of Union's students at Union may be a thing of '! ~ admissions department, headed by the past. The first acceptance for the Jonathan Pearson Ill. Class of '73 is a Negro, Harold Young • Mr. McKinnon said he received of New York City. ii. scholarships to other schools before ., 1 ~ his introduction in May to Victor {! ~;~;1~~: A~n!~~e~enior and leader of Biology Building Bucks Bulldozers; ~~ ~ He said Mr. Brown \got me $6 M 11• 5 • ( I B h d tl interested in Union and got me an i 101 Clence enter s e in l interview with the Admissions A fraternity party that got too contractor, Wade Lupe, Inc. of !I Department\. He added that he chose enthusiastic? A new Comp.Education Schenectady, from beginning ,.. Union because the school is course on the asthetics of dirt? A excavation at the planned time. The ·11 academically superior to the other project of a campus geologist whose construction should be back on schools considered. mind is on oil? Preparations for schedule soon. ) \' N f h S • • another extension of the Thruway? The construction program which, in ·J .,. ew ros tat1st1cs IJ' The world's first underground Student the past five years, has added Fox and ! 1 Having been thoroughly SA T'd, Union? not quite . . . Davidson houses, Schaffer library, and NMSQT'd, PSAT'd, achievement Arising from the patiently the Social Science and Humanities : ~~~~·· ¢. tested and class ranked, it is only assembled rubble just beyond the buildings will continue. When proper that the frosh should be Social Sciences Building will be a $6 complete, a Student Union, a Fine Concordy'd. Thus, a statistical million Science Center housing Arts Building. a library extension, and ,J t~~t comparison is being made between the departments in the Division of Science the rennovation of North College will '·' classes of 197I and '72. and Engineering. have been added. ~ In recent years, the Admissions At present, the complex, to be The pace of addition is. according I~ Office has attempted to increase the finished in I 970, is slightly behind, to Harold Usher, head of the physical ·~~ ., diversity of the class, both from schedule. Delays in the evacuation of plant, \largely contingent on the . economic and geographic standpoints. the old Biology Building kept the availibility of money.\ ' •· Comparison '71 '72 Percentage from 62.1 60 ~ . . New York - Number from Schenectady 21 15 .,.. Long I slanders 51 60 Total size 427 442 ,.1 ~· Percentage from 77.5 73.5 public schools ', ~ College Boards 646M 653M Percentage in 601V 6IOV .... top fifth of 71 66 High School Class Bulldozer with phone pole dissects defiant Bio Building. Concordiensis Is .... CONCORDIENSIS is an uncensored, hard-hitti.ng college newspaper. Published twice weekly, CONCORDY offers the Union community current news, interesting features, the latest in college sports, and meaningful editorial comment. Twice each week, the CONCORD'\' research and reporting staff seek out the facts behind the issues and are able to objectively chronicle the events and trends throughout the academic community. Present at all home and away matches, the sports staff describes in depth the ordeals undergone by the Dutchmen on the 'fields of friendb strife.' · A key staff on any colleg€ newspaper is the features staff. Tl·d: group is responsible not only fo1 producing creative and interestin~ articles, but also for soliciting and screening articles and various work~ from important figures among the administration, faculty and student body. As a result of CONCORDY'S dynamic nature, there are plenty of openings for good men in all five departments of the newspaper: news, features, sports, business and art and photography. In these departments there are places for reporters, researchers, merchandisers, proof and copy readers, cartoonists, etc. Interested student' should look ttp CONCORDlENSIS at the . activities Exposition on Tuesday night in order to discuss their interests and abilities \the admission of women to the undergraduate college in all departments beginning, if, possible with the fall of 1969, but no later than the fall of 1970.\ The committee, chaired by Professor C'arl Niemeyer of the English d e p a r t m e n t , in cl i c a t e d t o CONCORDIENSIS that it was confident that the faculty-at-large w o u 1 d make the three-part recommendation t<J the college trustees. The committee's confidence was based on the results of a questionnaire on co-education circulated among faculty members during the summer. Dr. Niemeyer said the questionnaire, consisting of nine questions, indicated the faculty is \strongly in favor of co-education\ as soon as possible. Despite the strength of faculty support, the committee was expected to request a delay in formal voting on the three provisions of the committee proposal to provide a chance for undergraduates to express student opinion on the subject. The exact method for the measuring of student response was not decided at the faculty meeting, but the committee suggested a convocation the first or second wee1< of classes for the committee to formally make its proposals to the student body The specific recommendations of the committee on co-education, formed in July, I 96 7, are: \'L The faculty of Union College recommends to the Trustees the admission of wotnen to the undergraduate college in all departments beginning, is possible, with the fall of I 969, but no later than the fall of 1970. \2. ... We recommend that 100 women a year be recTUited for the freshman class, there by establishing a man-woman ratio of three to one. \3. We recol11i11end that...the administration and the academic departments take the appropriate steps for their implimentation.'' The report of the committee estimated the \total cost of becoming co-educational a figure of about $5 million.\ It suggested the renovation of Richmond House and North College for housing female students. Besides Dr. Niemeyer, the committee members are: Dr. Henry Butzel, professor of biology; Dr. Charles Gati, professor of political science; Miss Mira Wilkim, professor of history and Mr. Bernard Carmen, Director of Public Relations. Professors Gati and Wilkins are not teaching at Union th.is year and were not present at Frida{ s meeting. What, When & Where TIME PL<\.CE EVENT SATURDAY 9-3 West Registration 12- 2 West Lunch 3:30 Chapel lvteeting with President and Dean 6:00 West Dinner SUNDAY 10:00 Chapel Pop service 9·-12 West Brunch West C'an tetbury Club 1:00 ss 016 Newman Club 2-3 Old Chapel Christian Associatio.n Language E-.ams 6:00 West. D.inner 7:30 Chapel Athletics panel 9:00 Chapel Lecture: Alex Haley

Published Tuesday and Fridav dur· ing the school year by the Student Body of Union College, Schenectady, N.Y. National Advert ising R epre· sentativt>: Ntttionul I.<: ducat tonal Advertising Sentict\\, Inc., C'oHege Publishers Repre serltat ne, 3 00 Lt\Xlngton Avenue, N, Y. C .. Editorial Office, Old Gym, Union College, Publication Office, White- hurst Printing & Binding Co., Inc., 416-418 Fifth Ave .. Troy. 235-4450. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20<1' a copy; $6 a year delivered anywhere in the Unit-ed States. SENIOR BOARD J El•' FREY C. BROWNE '69 ........ ..345-86 .[4 .................. Co-Editor in Chief D. PETER DROTMA!\ '69 ... . . .H6-8614 .................. Co-Editor in Chief . 3.45 -'l9 S9 ... ... \ 77-Bb 13. 3 77-8 513 . ...... Business Manager ........ Managing Editor ................ News Editor RICHARD LEWIS '70. WILLIAM DUZER '71 ALLEN GARTNER '7 I LEONARD SIMON '70 PAUL ANDREWS '71 ... J46-09>'1 ......................... Sports Editor , ......................................... Features Editor A Word to the Wise If your great-grandfather came to U nian, he was told: Union College has many advantages i11 all lines of educational work, as its results have always shown . .It is earnestly hoped that with all these opportunities for work, the freshman class will .respond to every call with vigor and zeal that has ever characterized Union men. Concordiensis. Sepiember 1900 When grand-dad arrived on the scene, be was advised: Good advice is the tiling which you need most, and which you are least likely to get. With this combined re<:ornmendation and warning we venture to give you the result of our experience. Do not break too suddenly from y Qtlf old ideals. Do not be too easily influenced, or feel that you must in every case do as everybody else does .... The whole gist of the .matter is \look before you leap' and think for yourself. There is one fundamental principle that should come first in every freshman s creed 'I resolve neve'!' to miss anything!' The happy man in college is the busy man .... Conc()rdiensis, September, 1920 There was even a good word for dear old dad: For the 71st time in the his:tory of Union College, it is Concordiensis' duty to welcome a 11ew class.: .. Remember_th~t thi~is your college. Use it as :your home .... ·B-e natural m your associatiOn wllh your fellow ~cholars and with your irlstructors. Be honest with yourselves and with the college. Take each mommt for its full value. Concordiensis~ Sep-tember, 1946 For 91 years the advice has gone out from these pages. Good advice, bad advice, inspiring advice, i.nccn:sistcnt advice. All manner of rcwmrnendations and a virtual flood <>f warnings have emanated from this column. Nevertheless, vve are only slightly hesitant in adding to this inundation. We say 'slightly hesitant,' because we consider college freshmen moderately sl>pllisticated iadi'liduals. By now, you, the class of 1972, are pretty seasoned advice takers. You can glean that advice which is applicable to you and that whkh is not. You arc, from now on, responsible for the consequences of your own foolishness. No one will cover for y<Ju ~n-o one will excuse you. No one will tell you to sleep, to eat, to study or to l<eep yourself clean. You will learn to do these things for yourself or, very !>imply, you will be hungry, tired, unprepared, or dirty. No one will make decisions for you any more, nor will any one be specifically watching <>u t for your best interests. Ho.vever, there will almo~t always be plenty of help if you feel that :, ou need it. There are all kinds of advisors and col! ns-elors around whose sole purpose is to help solve your problems: but they 'viii not come to you. To the class of 197 2, Concordiensis offers one of the oldest pieces of advice known to the Westem v.rorld. We offer you what Socrates told his disciples: \[{now thyself.\ .1\ged though the advice may be, it is quite valuable and applicable in this e\.istential age of ours. Know your position. Know your needs. Know y()-ur limits. Know, when you stand in the streets hurling cobblestones, wh<l you condemn. Know who you are. If you are among the few who already know all of these things. this advice is irrelevent. If you are not~ y Oll have four years in which to seek them. On one level you came to U11ion t<J learn. On another you came here to interact with the Union community. You simply have to be astute enough to realize where you stand. A reopagite Eager to pass a scnes of recon1mendations to the Trus•..:es_ calling_ for co-education at Union. the faculty cC>mmittee on co-education Fnday asked to first present the propQsals to the undergraduates for the\: o~~ion. This may be one of a series of steps during the past year, a stgniftcant one, toward a potent student voice at Union. We encourage the Class of :12 to take neither the matter of student power nor that of co·educatJOn lightly and to seck information and ;tudent leadership on these iss~es. No one know' yet whether student opinion will be taken senously by the faculty and administration, md if so, how seriously. But the way to find out is to be heard. Welcome: Frosh Dean Along with the Class of '72,Colloordiensis welcomes Union'~ many freshman faculty and administniliQll personnel. We are parhcularly impressed with the credentials of these newcomers to the college community and suspect their ;tay wilJ b-e rewarding for all of us. Edward J Malloy, Union's new Dean of Students comes from State University of New York at Stony Br1>ok with highest recommendations from Union's student leaders who VleJ'e called upon to help select him from nearly a dozen applican.ts. . As the stlldents' choice for Dean of Students, as well as the chotec of faculty and administration, we a.re confident that Mr. Malloy will help perform what ConcordietlSis feels r_ank highly among th~ ta_s~s of the dean. These arc the protection of the nghts. of stt1dents as md!vlduals and the ·preservation and advancement of 5tltdent voice in college matters effecting them. heshman Malloy aho comes witlt the highest recommendation of Dr. Olton Assistant Professor of History. who, to say the least, conscientiously assum~d the difficu It dt1 ties as Actin~ Dean in the interim following 0. Edwcrd Pollock's resignation last 1-'aJI. 'Frosh Record' Errs On Faculty The Freshman Record for the Class of '7 2 generally appears to be featuring many improvements over its predecessors. When it comes to the faculty section, though, like any record which has been through the same grooves repeatedly, it has developed many skips: Prominent among these is the ina..:..:urate a.ccounting of the College faculty. First, Dr. Charles W. Huntley is listed as Dean of the Faculty. Professor Huntley, Chairman of the Department of Psychology and Secretary of the College was Acting Dean last year until the position was eliminated in favor of extending the authority of the Deans of the two Centers, Drs. Lichtherman and Palmer. Second, Charles Olton is listed as Dean of Students. Dr. Olton served very ably in that position in the Spring term of last year following the departure of former Dean of Students, 0. Edward Pollock for Monmouth College. Olton was Acting Dean and now returns to his position as Assistant Professor of History. Edward Malloy replaces him this month. The department of the Arts has added two new men, Messrs. Henry Weil and Peter Erskine. Also in Center I the Department of Economics has undergone personnel change in the past year. Professor Alfred L Thimm is the Acting Chairman if the Department and Professor Prosper serves as the Executive Secretary. Professor William Bennett is currently leading the Comp. Ed. program at Concord College in Athens, West Virginia. Messrs. Bryant, Behrens, Holmes, Kershner, Aroian, and Wilson complete the department. The Department of History, as listed does not include Professors Pott and Olton as well as Instructors Thurston and Berk. Miss Wilkins and Mr. Sinton are no longer with the faculty and Mr. Ferguson is on leave. In addition to those lis ted Messrs. Lear, Shanebrook, Haag are members of the Department of Mechanical Engineering. The Department of Biological Sciences includes Messrs. Miroff and Urban. Mr. Pikul is a member'of the Civil Engineering Department and Messrs. C.C.Allen Morison and Schwarz are with the Department of ElcctJical Engineering. Mr. Driscoll, although listed, is on leave. Messrs. Jones, Hooverman and Schubert are members of the Physics Department. Mr. Krohl has left the Faculty and Mr. Henry is on leave. The Department of Physical education also includes Coaches Leonard, Benson and Brown. 5TERE050UND COMPONENT MUSIC SYSTEMS FOUR UNION STREO SCHENECTADY,N.Y. 12305 FREE CONSULTATION FREE DELIVERY FREE INSTALLATION President Harold C. Martin: Dr. Martin has served as Union College President since 1965, succeeding Carter Davidson. The President received an A.B. from Hartwick in 1 93 7 and the Ph .D. from Harvard in 1954. Before coming to Union, Dr. Martin was Director of General Education and lecturer in the English Department of that University. For the past few days he has been conferring with concerned student leaders at his farm in Upstate New York. CERCONE'S ATLANTIC STATION In the Department of Modern Languages, Mrs. Rawe and Mr. Schlebush are not mentioned and Messrs. lwanik and Grandin are no longer with the department. DISTRIBUTORS FOR MIRACORD, SHURE, AR, PIONEER, TEAC, DUAL, KENWOOD, AL TEC-LANSING Finest Gasoline In Schenectady Dr. Snider, Assistant professor of Social Ethics and Director of Campus Religious Acitvities as well as Miss Parker and Mrs. George are members of the Philosophy Department. Dr. Joseph Board, Chairman of the Department of Political Science, is a Fullbright Scholar this year in Sweden. Dean Lictherman is Acting Chairman of the Department which includes in addition to those listed Professor Robert Sharlet and Messrs. Walker Connor, Frederick Hartwig, and Byron Nichols. Mr. Terry is Head of the Upward Bound Program and a Lecturer in Political Science. IY APPOINTMENT ONLY PHONE 518-374-5367 711 NOTT ST. Mr. David Rheubottom joins the Sociology-Anthropellogy Department as an Instructor in Anthropology. Dr. Arnold Seiken is Chairman of the Department of Mathematics which includes Messrs. Sarma, Leach, Strait, Ballard, Behan, Riley, Holt, Maddaus, Gillette, Bick, Stone and Mrs. Corman. Let the lager freely flow. Down to Louis\ let us go, FERRO PHARMACY 575 NoH Street Schenectady, N. Y. FR 7-0510 FOUNTAIN SERVICE One block from Brownell Gate A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1 895 -· Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. NOW IN OUR 74th YEAR For reservations phone FR 4-8917 LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian • American Food 1125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady Dl b-9744 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar 377-9866 Traditional Natural Shoulder Clothing Jos. Nusbaum, Inc. 447-451 State Street Our 6ls.t Year in Downtown Schenectady 1 ... by Union is in 1795, ( ) · l the actual I when a pe inhabitants That petit 'b GJ pop11Iar de1 in A.meric! church and T<J indi .. !aad welled 1 ' great numl classes and and of all institution ' .. ) -~-11 College. The gr< helped extraordin: Dr. Elipha 1804 and 1 1866. No other reas< can be t. innovation course le: degree w scie11ce an than upon \. ' greater de I the fin connected Under ~, ·~ of Phi Be1 been insti The insti~ fraterni tie: Kappa A .J> II;. (1827) an Union th ·Fratemitil Under A Frosh! upperclas open arr rigbt haJi you set fc This r: Father, h Resident found o~ alld our tt several 1 whl>m ro<Jmate He's t li. , c()llectivc your wt ca.use. Here': Concord J. about e: Circle y< against I tile artie <. ~ •. Art resident Varsity trackma BetaTh ~ li Will \ tb ~ )\ ·11\. \'··:i North l econom Mr. Mm Den living A.meric: 21 PJ. 8 .I 41 10 OP

Martin: Union e 1965, The .B. from Ph.D. Before was ducation English he has farm in n ,, .... / -, J; ) ~) ' l '. 173 Years of Union History: The College and The Myth ... by Steven A. Cole Union is an old college. Founded l in 1795, one could probably trace the actual instigation back to 1779 when a petition was sign(.ld by 975 inhabitants of Nmthern New York. That petition was the frrst really fll poplllar demand for higher education in A.merica; it was tied to no one church and to no one kind of church. TQ indicate that the whole idea .. .\lad welled up from the desire of a 1 ' great number. of people, of all the classes and racial stocks of the region, and of all religious persuasions, the institution was to be called· Union College . Tbe growth of the college was helped along under the extraordinarily long presidency of Dr. Eliphalet Nott, who arrived in · 1804 and remruned until his death in 1866. Nott's influence, if for no other reason than the time element, can be seen further in such \' innovations as the introduction of a course leading to the bachelor's degr:ee which concentrated upon science and modern literature rather than upon the classics. It was still a 'greater departure to set up in 1845 the first engineering course connected with a general college. Under Dr. Nott, the first chapter 'If of Phi Beta Kappa in New York had been instituted at Union in 1817. The instigation of the frrst college fraternities in the United States. Kappa Alpha ( 1825), Sigma Phi It (1827) and Delta Phi (1827) gained Union the name of \Mother of ·Fraternities.\ Under the Nott \regime\, Union becune known as one of the largest, best-known colleges in the country. 'Students flocked from the deep Nott Sou tit and West as well' as the East. Among .thern were the father of Franklin 'D. Roosevelt and the grandfather of Sir Winston Churchill, President of the United States Chester Arthur, seven cabinet secretaries, fifteen United States senators, 91 members of the Hottse of Representatives, 13 governors, 50 important diplomats and more than 40 missionaries. Union has one of the first planned campuses in America. It was Dr. Nott who invited architect Andrew Carnegie Hall Joseph Jacques Ramee to Schenectady and induced him to undertake the design of a college on some land he had purchased. Ramee envisioned a great central court, flanked on three sides by buildings and open to the west, with a round \pantheon\ as the focus of the court. The original buildings on campus were North and South Coll(,lges built in 1812 and 1813 .. The Ramee style ' ' . .11 . · . ... ,.1i \!; . ~~-\·.· ... . . ' ~- I ·\\' . ' . Chester A. Arthur is indicative of the arches and pilasters in white agrunst a background of grey stucco. Nott Memorial commenced in 185 8 for use as a museum and civic center for the campus and town. With 16 sides, it is an tmportant pre-Civil War example of American Victorian architecture. The Trustees' choice of the Rev. Dr. Eliphalet N ott Potter, as his name eloquently signifies, meant a return to the family. Dr. Potter raised funds and did such things as remind The Idol Andrew Carnegie of a promise made many years before, and, by the gift of that pl1ilanthropist, provision was made to convert many of the buildings on the campus. It was Dr. Potter who effected the formation of Union University, by which the Albany MedicaL College, the Albany Law School, the Dudley Observatory, and later the Albany College of Pharmacy, were brought into a working relationship with the college. The Civil War was a terrible blow to a m~n's college which tried to be national in its scope. Union had contributed the ~ccretaric' of state of both the Confederate and Union cabinets. For the following fifty years. the College, as did the nation, struggled to adju~t its affa.irs tomeet the demands of an industrial age. Finally, with the coming of Andrew Bailey as treasurer in 1901 there began a bright half-century of steady growth in plant (teP new instructional buildings, the Schaffer Library, a field huu-,e, <tnJ four new dormitorit:~). in endowment {from nothing to appro,.imately :io26,000,000), .wJ in a restoration of prestige . Under President Charles A . Richmond ( 1909-1928), Frank Parker Day ( 1929·1933), and Dixon Ryan I ox (1934-1945}, Union weathered two world wars and the intervening depression, to reach its one hundred sixty-ninth birthday stronger than ever before in its long and eventful history. As Dr. Fox advises in bis \Union College\ {\An Unfmished History\) 11 would be stupid, as a general procedn re, to sketch a college history in periods of presidential administration. · A Student's Primer For Frosh Advisors A Desperate Plea .Interested in maintaining scouting connections? Alpha Phi Omega is a national scout service fraternity_ Its demands on member's time is up to the individual. Service to tile campus and community vary, but often take the form of ushering, posti11g notices on campus, or aiding a scout troup in the community. PEGGY'S RESTAURANT Frosh! Know that smiling upperclassman who greeted you with open arms and .exten-ded you the rig:ht hand of fellowship the second you set foot in the dormitory? This rather unlikely'he ain't heavy Father, he's my brother' · type' is a Resident Advisor. The species is found on almost all college campuses tt alld our variety is known to have several natural antagonists, one of whom is probably either your roQmate or his. He's the human receptacle for the li. ' c()llective frustrations and grief of your whole floor and perhaps the ca.use. Here's an idea of what J. Concordiensis' research staff knows about each of the resident advisors. Circle yours and use the informati':ln against him at any time or cut out tile article: Richmond House Art Jacobs, a senior, is head resident advisor for Richmond. A Varsity Football player and a tr:aclanan, Jacobs is a member of Beta Theta Pi fraternity. William Munno, a hmior from North Bellmore, Long Island is an economics major. A Varsity Wrestler, M:r. Munno lives in 404 Richmond. Dennis Moffittt, a senior living in 304 Richmond, is an A.merican Studies Major. Mr. Moffitt is a varsity football and Lacrosse player. R. Peter Ericson, a junior fr<Hn Pittsbu:rgh, Pennsylvania, is R.A. for 2nd floor Richmond. Active in the Big Brother movement ancl a varsity tnck and X-country athlete, Mr_ Ericson is a history major. South College Art McCabe, a senior and Head Resident Advisor living on first floor South is a member of Beta Theta :Pi Fraternity. McCabe is varsity trackman and a big brother. Grady .'Uonstamm, a senior an.d R.A... for fourth floor south, is a brother in Delta Chi Fraternity .. L~st. year's P:resident of Student Council, Mr. Aronstamtn is the head of orientation this year. Waldo \Skip\ Lynch, ajunior R-A. for third floor South, is an economics major from Buffalo. Mr. Lynch :Played tackle on the var:sity footbalL team. Jesse Dawkins, a junior R_A. for second floor South, is a member of The Black Alliance. From Jamaica, N'ew York, Mr. Dawkins is active in Upward Bound. WELCOME AGAIN '~ ' : o(r . .. l \' 2 or more SHIRTS •••• ~. 2~ ea. PANTS •• 49c SUITS •• 98c Dambrose Cleaners 1517 VAN VRANKEN AVENUE - FR 4-5193 Just Around the Corner froin Mohawk National Bank DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Ta11 Room Fine Food and Legal Severages 1 18 - 1 20 JAY STREfT ZELLMER!tS NORGE LAUNDRY AND Cf.EANING VILLAGE AT 1559 VAN VRANKEN AVE. (at HoHie Street) DR:Y CLEANING WASHERS 8 lbs. ___ .., _______ $2.00 12 Lb. ------------ 4 Lb. Min.-------- 1;00 20 Lb. ------------ DRYERS 30 Lb. - ___ .... _______ 10 Min. ______ ., ____ .1 0 .. 25 .:35 ..so OPEN - 8 A.M. to 10 P. M. Mon. to Sat.-1 0 A.M. to 6 P.M. Sundays IF YOU HAVE NEVER HAD NORGE DRY CLEANING DONE WE CAN BET YOU VJILL BE AMAZED West College Neal Gordon, a senior, is Head R.A. for West College and lives on the third floor. A brother in Phi Epsilon Pi fraternity, Gordon is also a member of the All College Council and the Student Tax Committee. Mark Goldstein, a senior, is resident advisor for 2nd floor West. A disc jockey for WRUC, Goldstein is also a Gatesman. Bob Berger a sophomore from Valley Stream, Long Island, is a R.A. for second floor West. A science major, Mr. Berger was a member of both the freshman basketl:lall and track teams. Ross Fraser, a junior, lives in 425 West. Mr. Fraser is pre~ident of his class. Craig Carlson, a junior, will be Resident Advisor for 3rd floor West. He is a Varsity football and basketball Qlayer. Ed Valentine, a junior, lives in 425 West and is a pre-med major from Elm a, New York. A N ott Scholar, Valentine also played Varsity Football. VROOMAN'S Beer - Groceries Cold Cuts - Pastries Magazines 200 NOTT TERRACE FR 7-9834 Skip.pers do it! Inglish leather® For men who want to be where the act1on is. Very intrepid. Very mas· euHne. ALL·PURPOSE LOTION. $2.50, $4.00, $6.50. From the com· plele array of ENGLISH LEATHER men's tolletrles. Union College cha.pter, started after World War II by veterans, has come to a crucial question: to continue, or to turn in its charter and cease to exist. Membership is almost nil. Anyone interested in its continuance should contact Professor Martin (Chemistry) within a few· days_ Unless there are sufficient students interested, he will, with regret, terminate this chapter of the national fraternity. Membership in A.P.O_ in no way interferes with membership in any of Union College's social fraternities. DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fin4! Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. lhe Brownell Gate on NoH Street Open Daily 1 0 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to 1 A.M. Special 10% Discount For Union Students On $10 Meal Tickets 428 STATE ST. ~For three Generations..' Those Who Know. Have been .. ecommending - Call 346-'1560 HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER ' 1 3 Vnion Graduates in Graubarf Family'• 166 JAY ST. FOR. HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY IF YOU WANT THE TRADITIONAL LOOK ... LOOK FOR THE TRADITIONAL. LABELl THE GREAT PLAINS No need to get fancy when you have 65% Dacron®/35o/o cotton \Endura.Press\ oxford in B \in\ colors_ With Soil·release. DAVES MEN'S & BOYS' 453 State St. Schnectady, N.Y. • OAc:RON FOL.VCSTEFI 1\> OuF'ONl S R£Gii. T.M. ' I

Concordy Sports Football Varsity Primes For St. Lawrence Trip A Guide to Union Athletics rhc 1968 edition uf Union College ·Football should look similar to 1967's won 4, lost 4 effort, at the start, but a lack of injuries and a fair share of breaks could allow for a much more ~atisfadory finish. The squad has the potential to beat every teum on ib schedule. Coach George Flood will ugain go with two platoons, and sl:ould stay with veterans in many positions. Ken Pearce and Scott Kumpf are again running neck and neck fur the quarterback position which they shared last year. They will be throwing to split end Rich Swan and flanker Craig Carhon. both of whom cnjeycd C\. traurdinury seasons last year. This quartet of junior~ should account for most of the scoring. l:ullback Joe James ha~ led the team in yard> gained for the past two seasons, and wiU handle the inside running, while sophs Jerry Ostrander and Larry Sykes arc also looking good in the backfield. Line Question A! ark The offensive line shows less experience, and may be a trouble 1967 .. 8: BY HENRY FEIN The 1967-68 year saw the continuation of a building program in Gamet athletics that has resulted in marked improvement in most areas. For the first time since 1955, a Union squad completed an undefeated season. The Garnet wrestlers piled up an impressive 10-0 slate. With a largely sophomore squad, Coach George Flood led the football team to a 4-4 season after the 1'966 squa.d had managed only one win all year. Both the Lacrosse and baseball teams had fine seasons: the stickmen finished 9-3. while the nine compiled a 9-2 1nark. The fall season started with a bang for the largely untested Garnet football team, as it won four of its first five games, with the only loss coming at the hands of Kings Point 14-13 when an .Jttempted two-point conversion near the end of the game failed. However, injuries, tough competition and a disciplinary problem weakened the squad and led to defeat at the hands of Williams, Alfred, and Hamilton on successive Saturdays. Froslz Grid The frosh griders managed only a single win, but that was a 54-0 rout of R.P.I. An outstanding pair of runners developed in Schenectadians Larry Sykes and Jerry Ostrander. Ostrander. a 9.?. 100-yard man, is a constant threat both outside and up the middle, while Sykes is a strong power-type back. Although the Garnet varsity Cross-Country team failed to win a meet last year, the frosh concluded a promising 3-2 season. Joe Burgess, John Braham, and Bill Walker were the top members of the young harriers. A well-balanced soccer team THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeots from all over the world. 406 STATE ST. CHARLES OPTICIANS 604 Union St. Fit 7-1283 Fre~mes and Lenses Replaced Prescriptions Filled spot as it was last season. Veterans arc Doug Mclc, Ted Jennings, 'viike McFarland, Bill Dwyer, and Bill Birns, while newcomers Don Woodworth, Dan Gould, Paul Beadle, Dan Rapalje, Doug Wirth, Steve French, and Ken Jacoby are in the running for starting berths. Defense Experienced The defense w.ill be anchored by a front four including John Burton Kevin Monahan, and Tom Oberst: with those three veterans joined by either Fd Blcchner, Tom Duffy, or Rit Calueci. Inside linebackers in the 4-4-:l defense will come from veterans Don DeMichele, Vito Potenza, and Russ Ciccotti. The defensive secondary will include Steve Ciesinski and Dave Gray, both of whom started last season. The third member will be either Fran Piscitelli, Paul Ramsey, or Guy Caruso. The team has already scrimmaged Montclair State, a contest which saw the Garnet win but fail to control the ball. They traveled to Wesleyan yesterday for their final warmup before taking on St. Lawrence in the first game. t;_: --~- \-~ _c:c_,_cL.~'---·-'---~~ Rich Swan (top) and Craig Carlson provided. much of the fireworks on the gridiron last season with brilliant pass receiving. Coach Flood expects the same this year. A Year of Improvement finished second in the ICAC with a 4-4-2 mark. Although the 1968 edition of the Garnet basketball team completed a dismal 8-12 season, the wrestlers and swimmers gave Union fans quite a bit to cheer about. En route to their unblemished season, which included the ICAC regular-season and tournament championships, the Dutchmen defeated such perennial powers as Colgate and Oneonta by healthy margins. An unbeaten frosh squad and a fine 5-3-1 varsity squad were encouraging note<; for Union swim fortunes. Junior butterfly star Steve Werlin set new Garnet and New York State marks with a 2:06.6 clocking, which earned him a trip to the National Championships. Tom Flynn also set a new Garnet record last year, with a 12:10.2 clocking in the 1000-yard freestyle. Burt Yankiver sparked the frosh, setting new marks for the 100 (52.8) and 200 (1:56.2) frccstylcs. Although the Garnet tracksters could do no better than 2-3 last season, the rest of the Spring sports picture was quite bright. Led by All-American picks Ken Milne on attack and Larry Gilette on defense, the Garnet Lacrosse squad completed another .fine record. Also starring for the Dutchmen was the injured Steve Ritterbu sh, considered by many the best player on the squad. The trio of seniors will be sorely missed by Coach Allison, but a fine group of sophomores hope to be able to take their place this year, especially attackrnen Wayne Christie and Ken Lorenze. Baseball Shines Despite the lack of a frosh baseball team, Coach Art Lawrence consistently develops outstanding sophomores for the Garnet baseball team, and the 1?68 group was no exception. Especially outstanding last year were Second Baseman Ken Pearce and outfielder Mike McGee. Ken Merchant and Mike Solomon also sparked the Garnet hitting attack. Joe Douglas came off the bench near the end of the campaign to help Bob Hallenback and Bill Neidel with the pitching load. The baseball team won its rust eight games of the season before losing to ICAC champ St. Lawrence. The other loss came to RPI, whom the Dutchmen were leading 8-1 in the fourth inning of a rained-out game earlier in the campaign. peuee, 1972 FROM THE JEWELER WHO SWINGS AT 428 STATE STREET PHONE FR4-0183 The following is an encycl0pedia of Union College sports - compiled exclusively for use by the class of 1972 as part of Freshman Orientation. Bruce Allison - coach of Lacrosse team, which wins. Member of national Lacrosse rules committee and president of coaches' national association. Also frosh football coach. Baseball - a sport played only on the varsity level at Union which normally has winning seasons. Played in Yankee Stadium in 1965 for small colleges Eastern Division title. And won. Basketball - middling to poor recently, as a result has become lacking in support and enthusiasm. Robert Benson coaches swimming and tennis, and has produced a winner in the former spmt. • ,ary Bruv.n recent Union ~raduate entering second year of cDaching here. l~rought soccer up to 4-·l- 2 lust season. should win this timL: around. Also coaches frosh basketball. Konala Coleman - took over ou !standing wrestling team last year Giant Poster I rom *Send any black & white or color photo (no negatives) and the name \Swingline\cut out from any Swingline package (or reasonable facsimile) to: POSTER-MART, P.O. Box 165, Woodside, N.Y. 113 77. Enclose $1.95 cash, check, or money order (no C.O.D.'s). Add sales tax where appli- cable. Poster rolled and mailed (post- paid) in sturdy tube. Original mate· rial returned undamaged. Satisfaction guaranteed. Get a Swing line To~ Stapler (including 1000 staples) Larger size CUB Desk Stapler only $1.69 Unconditionally guaranteeo:l. At any stationery, variety, or book store. s~JNC. LONG ISLAND CITY, N.Y.tttOI UNION BOOK COMPANY 237-241 STATE STREET BOOKS ART SUPPLIES DRAFTING SUPPLIES ALL, SOCIAL & COMMERCIAL STATIONERY PHONE: 393-2141 ---- ·--------------~----------------------~---------------------------------------- by L.e.n Simon o; «i ___ _ and went undefeated. Building promising track and cross·country teams from scratch. Cross-country - miserable the past few years, most likely all sophs this year and should win half. George Flood - football coach and athletic director to be. Has not had a winning season in four years here, but is expected to make it this time. Football: ~ a sport in which Union hasn't been a winner since 1956. All but one of last year's team returning, should roll this season without injuries. Passing should dominate the game this year. Wilfred Ketz director of athletics, on sabbatical for a term, retires to a position of Institutional Research in June_ 'Progressive changes may come with his absence. Lacrosse second biggest spectator sport here, and a consistent winner. Fast, high scoring, and sometimes bloody. big ones (football, wrestling, lacrosse) for some time now and hope to keep it up_ Christopher Schmid ~ coaches varsity basketball and defense In football. Little to work with in the former until his own recruits start showing up. ,.~ { il Soccer - moving out of .a period of mediocrity to most likely a winning trend under Brown. Swimming - winning team last year led by Steve Werlin who went to the Nationals. Tennis - generally poor in the past, Benson doesn't want to coach it, and the players are not very good \ <~, ovetall. Track - improving like cross country, coming out of the Ketz stage. Good individuals, no depth last year. Williams - a big rivalry to us, a small one to them. A football victory would be the first one for us since 1956. Wrestling - developed by Allison, and nurtured .by Coleman, was 10-0 ·~ Vol. 98 ·.7 .. ' ... ··, ' .. , :.;t• / Art LaWrence - highly stwcessful baseball coach and director of intrarnurals, his cigar is a permanent feature. RPI - big rival from nearby Troy. We've managed to beat them in the last year and should be perfect again. May need a coach if Coleman takes indoor track. •J I \\ r l ~quirr fj4np ~ '• )• ,,, ·~~ ' Traditional on every Campus THE VESTED SUIT $85. to $110. .. 326 STATE ST. Ph. 377-3061 Thurs. 'til 9 The co-educ~ of the l:3 ~ is awaiti conduct Profe of the C '· \strongl Union C Dr. r with th .... which ~ report: other cc ~ tend t humani1 sciences would i: (ll curricul additiot seriousl: 4\11 of the C 2. \j die\. R mere o student male lit s Fift faculty fl Preside Renss~ topics envirc t\1 currie decisio change ~ Om kind 0 Union me a~ .) iisadv: would backgJ • classrc Wh major reduce Ci! Preside never

