• 14 u Prevost .game.\ Flood's '\ of Rich i Saturday. l. as . '-'Vinter Sports Page 5 Tuition Climbs Page 2 Founded at Union College 1877 ·~·---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, THUilSDAY, JANUARY 11, 1968 Vol. 97 -· No. 10 PRICE 15 CENTS GPike, Reingold Resign . does. so f) .\ ed in 14' ¥ 0 Huntley And Nickerson New Deans Of College returned ( and .punt, · all . times he~> of break- e, 'but the him, with..), bbled. 44 pass- yards and. latter 1 game team in seven an aver·tJ ·.i ~') ' Union 13 State at RPI )~ at NYC 34 '' ~Aronstainnl, Killian ~To Fill Top Positions By PAUL FARNHAM Ray Pike was fol.'ced to resign for the second time as Student Council · president because of academic diffi- . ''\sl culties and Richard Reingold has stepped down as president of WRUC because -of \personal reasons''. Pike, who also held the office briefly in t'<t 1965, will be replaced by Grady Aron· . stamm. Reingold's successor is Bob Killian. Commenting on the unfortunate sit- •· {lg uation, Pike ~tated that he does n~t · believe the J6b of Student Council President is too difficult for one man to handle. Charles Olton, -~ Acting Dean of Students and m~m- .· her of the Committee on the Standmg Students, stated that the Student Council President can vary the size of his job but maintained that a stu, \' dent should not become a candidate for such an office unless he is able to sacrifice the necessary time and energy, Pike Suggests Future Course Pike who has also been president of his freshman class, a student coun- \\ cil member, and a dorm counselor,. expressed his views on what action the council should take during the remainder of the year. He hopes that it will strengthen the residence pro- gram and support the Union Inter- Residence Council. The social rules must be re-examined and the campus arts program improved. Commenting on his successor, Pike said that Aronstamm should do a good job but win find it difficult to take over in the middle of the year. Pike felt that the vice presidency has pre- pared Aronstamm for his present job. He hopes to see his successol' working with the All College Council and the new vice president .playing a greater role on the council itself. Grady Aronstamm, who was un- aware of the change until last Friday, feels he is prepared for the job. His past experience includes membership on the Student Council, the Student T.ax Committee and his c}ass ex:ecu- tive council. Presently he is chair- man of orientation. According to Aronstamm The election of a :new vice president will be one of the first items on the council's agenda tltis term. Aronstamm outlined his plans for the council, many of which were con- tinuations of those of his predecessor. The needs and wants of foreign stu- dents on campus will be stud\ied. A survey of student opinion taken at fall registration must be completed. Aronstamm hopes to initiate small intellectual or social programs to im· prove the residence program. The question of an increased student tax: will be examined. Of special interest to the new president is an evaluation of the social rules,. the maintenance program, and convocations. Continued on Page .2 Manker Plans To Sign Winter Weekend Group By RANDY SUTTER Rusty Manker, Union's Social Chair- man Wednesday said that Winter Weekend entertainment will be signed within the next two weeks. Although he said no groups have as yet reached the _signing stage for the weekend beginnmg Feb. 17, Man- ker assured Concordiensis that a turn of events similar to those prior to 1 ,_ Fall Weekend is not in store for the Class of '71, sponsors of the weekend. Friday to report he could not make it to Schenectady. Although the Isley Brothers suc- cessfully reached th~ school Saturday, they did not fulfill their contract, singing for only one of two scheduled 40-minute shows. Manker reported that since that weekend, contracts have been made more definite, including a rider for- bidding any appearances by a signed group in the tn-city area 15 days be- fore or after any future engagements. By RICHARD PATTERSON, JR. Dr. C. William Huntley, C1Jairman of tee De- partcr.ent .of Psychol0gy, has been appointed to serve as Provcst and Dean of the College for the remain- der of tl:e academic year. The appointment will be effective February 1, when the present Dean, Theo- dore D. Lockwood, leaves to assume the presidency of 'l'rinity College in Hartford, Connecticut. In the meantime, the search for a permanent successor to L:)ckwood goes on. Donald R. Nickerson, 33, Headmaster of Beaver C~:nmtry Day School in Chester .Hill, Massachusetts, l:as been appointed Dean of Students at Union. He will replace 0. Edward Pollock, who left December G to become Vice President for Student Personnel Services at Monmouth College in Long Beach, New Jersey. .. Dr. Huntley, who graduated from Union in 1934, served as Dean of the College from 194 7 to 1964, and again in the spring of 1965 in the period between the departure of President Carter Davidson and the arrival of President Harold C. Martin. In a memorandum to faculty and staff announcing Huntley's appoint· ment, Martin noted that Huntley will: \give approximately half time to the job of Dean of the College and will Commenting on Nickerson's appointment, Dean of the College Th€odore D. Lockwood saicl \we are fortunate to have Mr. Nickerson. He stands head and shoulders above the other candidates interview- ed, in possessing those qualities important to this office. ' Four otner candidates received campus in- tervie\VS. continue as Chairman of the Depart- ment of Psychology\. He will teach C. William Huntley, Acting Deon of the Faculty and Provost of Union College. one course per term for the remainder of the academic year. Smooth Takeover In an interview recently, Lockwood cited Huntley's \wide experience in the office\. He pointed out that Hunt· ley's great knowledge of the college should provide for as little disruption as possible in the operation of the Dean's office between Lockwood's de- parture and the arrival of a new dean. Candidates for the office are still being interviewed, and no appoint- ment is imminent. Mr. Frampton Davis, of Michigan; has been named Special Assistant to the President for the J:'emainder of Continued on Page 3 COUNCILMEN DEBATE CONCORDY ELECTION; NEW PROCEDURE SET Concordiensis voting procedures and a contested Concordiensis election provided controversy and debate du~­ ing the two latest Student Council sessions. Other business yielded the floor at the November 20th meeting as dis- cussion centered around the disputed election of Richard Patterson, Jr. to the position of editor-in-chief of Concordiensis. The protest, which contends that Patterson's election was improperly conducted, was brought before the council by Alan Ziegler. Ziegler, also a member of the Concordiensis Senior Editorial Board, spoke on behalf. of Richard Balagur, former Concordien- sis News Editor and a losing candidate for the top Concordiensis position. The procedures for the election state that \the staff\ shall vote for editor. Ziegler's argument was that \the staff\ was the editorial staff and did not include the business staff. However, the business staff, with the approval of the departing e~itor-in­ chief Joseph A. Mann, Jr., did take part in the election of Patterson. He also stated that the vote of the busi- ness staff swung the election away from Balagur who would have won if only the editorial staff had voted. He then asked the councii to nullify the vote and enforce the policy \only the editorial staff shall vote.\ Continued on Page 3 After his arrival on July- 1, Nicker- son and his wife and two children will live in the residence now occup- ied by Lockwood. It was decided that the Dean of Students, in order to keep close to student affairs and better understand the \tempo of stu- Charles S. Olton, Acting Dean of Students, reclines temporarily in his new office. dent life\ should live on campus. Pollock lived off campus due to a housing shortage on campus at the time of his arrivaL Olton Acting Dean In tlle period between Pollock's departure last month and the arrival of Nickerson in July, Dr. Charles S. Olton, Assistant Professor of History, vvill serve as Acting Dean of Students. Olton, who assumed the duties of Dean of Students at the end of the fall term, \has shown great interest in student affairs\ Lockwood said, and .. is basically sympathetic to stu- dents\. He is a former member of the discipline committee. Nickerson, born in Newton, Mass. in 1935, graduated magna cum laude from Harvard in 1957. He received his master's ·degree from the Harvard Graduate School of Education in 1962. · He taught English at the high school level, and advanced composi- tion in the Harvard University Ex- tension Program from 1960-65. Manker also said that his council post is little understood. Although he <~~ does much of the work with agents in contacting and signing groups for Union's weekends, he does not make the final decision. Preparations for this year's Winter Weekend began on Nov. 9. The day after elections, Frosh officers met Profs. To Give Local Teachers Course On Negro In America In ad<Ution to being Headmaster of Beaver Country Day School, his other administrative experience includes be- ing Assistant Director of the Office for Graduate and Career Plans, and serving on the Board of Admissions at Harvard. He was also Director of Dramatics at Needham Senior gjgh School in Needham, Mass. From 1962 to 1966, Nickerson served as Chair- man of the Massachusetts Commision • with Manker ill the first of a series of orientation meetings. The Freshman Class hopes that events will not turn against the plan- ners as it did with Fall Weekend, sponsored by the Class of '70. Manker started work on that week- end in June. Ramsey Lewis signed a contract. early in the fall and a def- inite contract was made with the agent of Junior Walker. Yet Walker is known to make his own decisions, and by November he still had not signed. Union dropped its agreement with Walker's agent one week later, and an arrangement was worked out with the lsley Brothers. Ironically, Junior Walker called Nov. 14 to announce that he would perform, but was turned down as the new contract had been completed. The Fall Weekend blizzard com- Plicated matters. Ramsey Lewis flew into Syracuse from· Chicago, but couldn't get . clearance to land in Al- bany Airport. Lewis called at 5 p.m. The Schenectady City School Dis- trict in cooperation with the Educa- tion Committee of the National Asso- ciation for the Advancement of Colored People and various Union faculty and staff me~bers has com- misioned two Union College professors to offer an in-serviee course for Sche- nectady pubUc school teachers on \The Negro in Amel'ican Society, Past and Present.\ The course; jointly taught by Assis- tant Professors David B. Potts of the History Department and Malcolm R. Willison of Sociol()gy, will meet on campus from 3:45 to 6:15 P.M. for fifteen weekly sessions, starting Feb- ruary 7. Negro Signili-cance According to Assistant Superintend- ent Donald R. Sayles, the Schenectady Board of Education is offering the course because it feels that traditional history texts do not do justice to the role of the Negro in the development of American society. This fault ex- tends to the college level, so that many teachers are not aware Qf the significance of the Negro, and this By NEIL S. KRAMER gap in their knowledge is evident in public school teaching. . The result of this inaccurate; dis· torted picture of history is that the young Negro, rarely learning in school of significant Negro contributors to the American culture, conceives. that being a Negro leads to inevitable mediocrity. The result is that these young people are robbed of their se.lf· esteem. In recent years the social implications have flared violently across the countryside. Pernicious Myths . Also, the young white pupil does not understand Negro accomplish· ments and develops an attitude toward black people that is based on an in· complete, inaccurate view of our na· tional history. Pernicious myths. suclt as an attitude of racial superiority, are an outcome of such an unbalanced view of history. The aim of the course will be to give elementary and secondary teach- ers, especially those in the social studies area, information that they will be .able to integrate into their curricula. The enrollment of the course will be limited to 35 in order to have a manageable size group for discussions, but the Board of Educa- tion plans to 9ffer the course as long as there is a demand, so that they can reach as many of the system's 800 teachers as possible, Black Like Me This course on the Negro in Amer· ica is one aspect of a program of in- service instruction for Schenectady public school teachers that covers topics as diverse as reading instruc- tion, modern math, the use of audio- visual aids, and dealing with problem children. · There will be extensive background reading required in order to provide as basis for class disc1.1ssion. The read- ing list includes sources such as Black Like Me by John Jfoward Griffin, Invisible Man by Ra.ph Ellison, The Autobiography of Malcolm X, and The .,., Strange Career of Jim Crow by C; ~ ... Van Woodward. · · The weekly sessiop.s will be con- ducted by Professors Potts and Willi- son alternately. Three outsiae expert speakers are scheduled. The partici- pants will be required to do a research paper, project, or take an examination. on the Academically Talented. . Prof. Olton, who joined the faculty in 1965, graduated from Wesleyan University in 1960 and received his doctorate from the University of Cali- fornia at Berkeley in 196'7. He is a member of the American Historical Association, the Colonial Society of :Massachusetts, and the American As- sociation of University Professors. Prof. Olton will teach one course per term for the remiander of the academic year, and will hold limited office hours in his capacity as Acting Dean of Students. NEW COM MAN D-E::·R· Michael B. Walsh '68 has been se• lected as the Air Force RO'PC Corps Commander for the Winter Term. Lt. Col. Charles J. O'Bier, professor of Aerospace studies, said \Mr. Walsh's outstanding leadership qual- ities thoroughly qualify him for this important position.\ Cadet Major Walsh is a member oi Chi Psi and is majoring in psychology. A. dean's list student, he has lettered in varsity Lacrosse.

2 LARGER HIKE IN TUITION ANNOUNCED Tuition charges at Union will rise next year to $2100. instead of $2000. as planned two years ago. The rise was announced by Pres. Harold C. Martin in an address to students on November 16. Martin pointed out that the college's operating deficit last year approxi- mated $90,000, and that the deficit for this year will exceed $350,000. Even if tuition charges this year had been $2000, Martin said, a deficit would still have been incurred. The President contended that tuition charges at other colleges \of our kind will match or exceed our next year in most cases.\ Martin said, however, that the col- lege will take steps to offset any hardships to students caused by the cost hike. The co-signer requirement on college loans has been removed, and attempts will be made to increase the scholarship funds available. Room rent witl not rise this year, but it will not be known if board prices will rise until consultation with Saga Food Services in the spring. The President called on all students to help keep college costs down by \keeping our maintenance problems to a minmum and by looking for ways to help us spend the money we do spend more wisely.\ Thursday, January 11, 1968 Ca~npus Miscellany The international Relations Club will hold a reception for Henry Steele Commager on Thursday, Jan. 18, at 3:30 p.m. in the Hale House Student Lounge. Elections for officers of the . IRC will be held the same place on Mon- day, Jan. 15, at 4:30 p.m. All mem- bers are requested to attend. · · There will be readings for a theatre production of Pinter's The Caretaker at Nott Memorial on Wednesday and Thursday, January 17 and 18 at 7:30 p.m. An article in the November 9th Concordiensis implied that Gershon's Delicatessen charged the college ap- proXimately $3500 to cater a reception held in Hale House Nov. 3. We have since learned from the college that the charge was approximately $2600. The next game of the Student-Fac- ulty Bridge Club will be held on . Tuesday evening, January 16, at 8:00 p.m. in Hale House Faculty Lounge. Anyone interested in joining the Bridge Club should plan to attend this tournament. Mike Levin-Epstein and Michael Klayman teamed up to win the No- vember tournament. Barry Furst and partner, Professor Lambert, were sec- ond and the Father Gagnon-Dean Lucas team tied with Peter Siegel and Dennis Meyers. Dean Theodore Lockwood will be the speaker at the Union College Alumni Association's 80th annual din- ner Wednesday evening, January 24, at the Tavern-on-the-Green in New York City. With the usual cocktail hour and a special program for parents of Union students, the dinner is the associa• tion's most important social event of the year. Reservations should be sent to Nor- man Kreisman, '47, 193 Madison Ave- nue, New York, New York 10016. Professor Charles Weber, an artist from the University of Bridgeport, will visit Professor Thurston's Com• prehensive Education Class East Asian Ideas and Ideologies, on Monday, Jan. 15. He will present a slide lecture on Chinese and Japanese painting in the auditorium of the Social Sciences Building at 1:30 p.m. All students are invited to the two•hour class. American Airlines recently pre- sented a check for $1;000 to the Union College Capital Campaign. Making the presentation to Dr. Har- old C. Martin, president of the cole lege, were Herve Larche, district sales manager for the airlines, and Curtis A. Tucker, sales representative for the local area. Lt. Kenneth E. Cuneo, the OCS Selection Officer, will be at Union VITA·D,ATA Merge VITA, the Volunteers for Interna- tional Technical Assistance Incorpo- rated, located on the Union campus, merged with the DATA International Assistance Corps of Palo Alto Cali- fornia, on October 1. VITA is a group which provides technical aid to such volunteer workers as mission- aries and Peace Corpsmen. Postal Peace Corps (:ollege on Mon. Jan. 15th to answer questions concerning the United States Army's College Option Pro- gram for college graduates.\ Seven original prints by contem- porary artists will be displayed in the main floor display cases of Schaffer Library beginning Tuesday so that students may be polled to indicated those they prefer. The popular choices will be pought for exhibition in college housing fa- cilities, both dormitories and fratern- ities, with funds from a gift of the Class of 1967. Mr. Arnold Bitte1man, Artist in Residence, would like students inter- ested in obtaining prints for their living units to contact him, prefer- ably by mail. The works exhibited will be: \Drive In\ by Leonard E;dmundson, \Woman Turning\ by Herbert Fink, \Window\ by Ed Hill, \Storehouse of the Mind\ by Donald Lexauer, \Dance Baby Dance\ by Marvin Lowe, \Winterscape V\ by Peter Milton, and \Winter-Light II\ by Linda Plotkin. This is the beginning of a series of exhibitions in different media that will continue until the fund donated by the Class of '67 is depleted. View of fourth floor North College barhroom a:; seen by two foot midget Insulation on pipes in No~th College prevents rars from getting water with- going to sinks. ) ·• Noted Critic To Speak On Russian Literature ,, Andrew Field, a member of the fac- ulty of the University of Queensland, Australia, and a recognized scholar and critic of Russian literature, will speak at 8:15 p.m. Monday, Jan. 15,. in the Social Science Auditorium. aspires beyond scholarship and criti- cism, to be, itself, a work of art,\ New York Times The work was also .reviewed in. the '\ \New York Times Book Review,\ \Time\ and \New York Review of Books.\ New Office of External Affairs is in the former Delta Upsilon House. The new organization will combine the 2,000 members of DATA with the 2,500 members of VITA and will oper- ate under VITA's name from the present Schenectady office. In a joint statement made around the time of the merger, the directors of the two organizations said, \VITA and DATA have operated along similar lines in providing their services by mail throughout the developing world. Their volunteers, working at home in their spare time, have answered thousands of technical requests from people working in Africa, Asia, and Latin America. This virtual backstop- ping function has served to comple- ment the work of the other U.S. and international programs in developing countries.\ Field will speak on \Nabokov and New Directions in C(}ntemporary Lit- erature.\ Valdimir Nabokov has con- tributed to both Russian and Ameri- can literature, yet is considered nei- their a Russian nor an American writer. F'ield's important articles include \Not So Dissonant Voices in Soviet Literature\ in the \New Leader\ and a review-essay in the De~. 31, 1967, issue of·the \New York Times Book Review.\ FROSH ~ I TO SIUBMIT' BIDS . The rushing preference cards of more than 200 freshman are exi;>ected to be matched with lists of the 16 fraternities on campus when the li~ts are submitted to the Inter-Fratermty Council next Wednesday. For the freshmen whose bids are matched with fraternities, W ednes- day's bid-matching will end the ten- week long period of fraternity ru_sh- ing and begin a no-contact period with fraternities that will end pledge night, two weeks from today. For the unmatched frosh, a week- long second rush begins next Thurs- day. Second bids will be submitted the following Wednesday. The last of eight fraternity pre- ference meals was held today when freshmen visited fraternities for lunch. Six other specifi~d meals for rushing were held durmg the Fall term and one earlier this week. INTRODUCING FOR C'Ynorher by~@!£ A beautiful pin with a b;rthstone for each member of the family. She will cherish it forever. for Only $12,50 ]] .• >!.;:;:! Pike • • • Continued from Page 1 WRUC's Richard Reingold whose term as president would have expired in early April will now act as senior advisor and will still be \on the air.\ Bob Killian, th,e, newly appointed act- ing president, h'as served as the sta- tion's news director and most recently as vice president of FM development. WRUC Personnel Shift Other changes in personnel include Jim Stillman's appointment as presi· dent in charge of sales. Stillman was vice president in charge of AM opera- tion, a responsibility which will now be exercised by a committee consist- ing of Gary Abramson (chairman), Paul Jacobson, and Jay Gottlieb. Dick Roth, a transfer student with experi- ence on Syracuse University's W AER- FM, will replace Killian as news di- rector. Expansion VITA is developing, besides its In- quiry Service, Research and Develop- ment Program, and Publications Pro- gram, a new system of Village Tech- nology Centers. In addition, VITA is starting a joint technical assistance program with INVOLVEMENT, Inc. of Palo Alto, California, the Institute of Food Technologists, the American Institute of Nutrition, and the Amer- ican Society of Agricultural Engineers. Train for six months. Exchange Scholar Field was born in New Jersey in 1938 and was educated at Columbia and Harvard. In 1963 he served as an Exchange Scholar from Harvard at Moscow University. Dr. Robert S. Sharlet, assistant pro- fessor of political science at Union. will introduce Field. Prof. Sharlet, ari expert in Russian affairs studied with Field at Moscow University. Although only 29 years of age, Field has a number of books and articles to his credit. < Translator He is the author of \Nabokov: His Life in Art.\ Also, Field has trans lated Fyodor Sologub's novel \Th:>. Petty Demon\ and has edited an an- thology of contemporary Soviet prose and poetry, \Pages from Tarusa.\ Field advocates evaluation of Soviet literature by literary rather than po- litical criteria. He is a rebel among Anglo-American critics in this respect. His work on Nabokov was the sub- ject of a rare two-part review in the \New York Times.\ \Times\ critic Eliot Fremont-Smith reported that \Mr. Field's 'critical narrative' And we'll give you about $2 million worth of assets to manage. How's that sound for responsibility? Here's the deal. You successfully complete Atlantic Richfield's Marketing Training Program-which takes from four to six months. Then, you'll be responsible for the success of about 15 Atlantic Richfield Service stations. Worth about $2 million. You'll make them grow. Recruit dealers. Turn them into successful· businessmen by guiding them in sales, financial and operational management. And from this assi\)nment, you can grow::into line and staff management of sale~; advertising, market Sparks are flying at -~~ · research, sales promotion, real estate, training and employee relations. From the word \go it demands a take-charge kind of guy. Responsible. Persistent. Able to do it your way with only limited supervision. If it's responsibility yoq wantc-ask your. Placement Office to arrange an h1tei'view with the Atlantic Richfield Marketing representative. He's due on your campus on January 25th. AtlanticRichfieldCompany ·:f· - ''·''.:t - -~lli '!.·' ·, ... ~. making things happen wi~h petroley'll. ~?.~r~y ~~~ · 111 •• A reception will be held following the lecture at Hale House for Union faculty and English and comparative literature professors of this region. B-Ball Continued from Page 8 , 6-2 forward Bob Voss who is averaging;. 20 rebounds per game while scoring at a 12 point per game clip. 6-3 junior forward Bill Barton is averaging 14 points per game and is backed up by •J a 6-4 senior center Jim Brooks and 6-0 senior guard Walt Daub who are averaging 12 and 10 points respective- ly. The Continentals are a fine shoot- ing ball club which loves to run, pre- senting a definite problem for the slow-moving Garnet. The Garnet travel to Wesleyan next Tuesday night to face a team which has basically the same material that drubbed the Dutchmen 90-59 in the fieldhouse last year. Led by junior lettermen the Cardinals are currently sporting a 4-2 record with a pair of contests to play before meeting the Garnet. Thursda 'ill Co· 1:. Cor A he~ <oJ both F · spoke b call vo1 election that \tl \ right .fc the vot1 Con cor( agreed 1 rr:e report 1 a new: for futt in-chief. On :rv. S. Kram mitted by Con~ Til ed as Student The am editor ; ~ Seniol' Boards as edit< appear pa,per i: \ the ann tion\. 'I a comp ior Bo ., five o: membeJ Joel Rl ger, ob another entire . the amt a 15-5 · It w; Janu~: mond: the ofi Co: the ye~ reports pre par• Provos1 He wil PresidE Davh College receive from tl sin in 3: 0 ·Ph: E: I 1 - - On -

111 1968 Thursday, Ja,nuary ·11; 1968 Council ••• Kodak Grant Professor Daniels Handles Continued from Page 1 A heated debate followed and Frank Kuhl, professor of Elec- trical Engineering, left at the end of the fall term to assume a post at the U.S. Naval Acad- emy, Annapolis, Md. Eastman Kodak Company of Rochester has presented Union College an $8,400 grant as part of the company's $6.4 million aid-to-education contribution for 1967. ..; both Patterson and Balagm; spoke before the council. A roll call vote of 15-3 allowed the election to stand on the grounds ., • ._ that \there was no justifiable right for the council to nullify the vote of the entire staff of Concordtensis.\ It was further Clare Graves, professor of psychology, suffered a heart attack during the Autumn Re· cess and will be absent from his deartment for the remainder of· the term. p In the past seven years, the value of Kodak's annual aid-to- education program has totaled about $18.2 million. College midget th College with- and criti- of art!' 'I! in the '\ R~view,\ of include '' in Soviet and 31, 1967, imes Book following for Union region. 8 . averagmg;. ile scoring 6-3 junior 14 up by •J and who are respective- fine shoot- run, pre- for the next which that in the by junior currently a pair of the agreed that Concordiensis would ~ report bacJc to the council with a new and equitable procedure for future elections for editor- in-chief. On Monday, January 8, Neil S. Kramer, m::tnaging editor, sub- mitted the amendment favored by Conco1;diensis. Kramer serv- \' ed as proxy for Patterson 1 a Student Council Representahve. The amendment states that \the editor shall be elected by the ~ Seniol' and Junior Editorial Boards of Concordiensis, as well as editorial staff members who appear on the masthead of the pa,per issued two weeks prior to \ the announced date of the elec- tion\. This was considered to be a, compromise because the Jun- ior Board has approximately ~o.· five of the more important members of the business staff. Joel Rubenzehl, business mana- ger, objected to this, favoring another proposal allowing his entire -staff to vote. However, the amendment was accepted by & 15-5 vote ef the council. It · was also reported at the January 8 meeting that Ray- mond Pike has resigned from the office of Student Council New Dean ... Continued from Page 1 the year. Davis will assist with reports and studies normally prepared by the Office of the Provost and Dean of the College. He will also directly assist the President in some matters. Davis graduated from Hiram College in Ohio in 1961, and received his master's degree from the University of Wiscon- sin in Milwaukee in 1964. William Merriweather, instruc- tor in drama, has returned to campus and is teaching one course this term. Professor Edgar Curtis, chair- man of the Department of Arts, has returned to campus after a ten-week absence due to illness. He has resumed his professorial duties this term. President because of academic difficulties. Grady Aronstamm, Vice-President, succeeds Pike. Aronstamm took charge of the meeting and accepted nomina- tions for a new Vice-President. Those nominated include Art McCabe, Rusty Manker, Arnold Drogen and Ben Volinski. An 11 For three Generations/ Those Who Know. Have been recommending - Some $339,600 in unrestrict- ed grants goes to 80 privately supported colleges and unversi· ties. Dr. Louis K. Eilers, Kodak president, said, \Through edu- cation, more than any other process,. people begin develop- ing the abilities that stir men to reach new £rontiers in thought and action.\ election will be held in the Student Council at the next meeting on Monday, January 22. Newly elected Freshman Stu- dent Council Representatives in- clude Eleftherios Pavlides, Wil- liam Perlstein, William Dawson, Donald Kessler and Edgar Run- dell. HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER \'3 Union Graduates in Graubarf family'• 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOO JEWELRY 135 ERIE BOULEVARD THE PEANUT STORE Boulevard Bowl 3 2 AMF Bowling Lanes Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS Open 8 A.M. to 3 A.M. SNACK BAR ON PREMISES and Nutmeats from all over the world. 406 STATE ST. Gershon's Sandwiches Cold Cuts Salads Open Tues. Sun. 8 A.M. to 9 P.M. · Ph: EX 3-0617 1600 Union St. REALE'S For the finest in cameras and stereo fidelity featuring Nikon, Hasselblad, Leica, AR Speakers, Sony Recorders 1957 Foster Ave. FR 2-4446 DAMBROSE CLEANERS Mama Bianchi's Fine Italian & American Food SHIRTS 2~c- SUITS 1.00- PANTS SOc Open Sunday Student Discount on All Dry Cleaning · Special Tues. & Thurs: Spaghetti & Meatballs with Salad and Coffee-$1.00 1517 Van Vranken Avenue FERRO PHARMACY 57 5 N'ott Street Schenectady, N. Y. FR 7-0510 FOUNTAIN SERVICE One block from Brownell Gcate 1135 Barrett St. FR 4-5193 Private Banquet Room UNION BOOK COMPANY 237-241 STATE STREET ~--·.~-~ Books • • • Paperback Classics --- .. :-~- Party Favors • • • Art Supplies Office Supplies Political Research Project The chairmen of both major tionnaires to Republican and political parties in New York ·. Democr~tic C()Unty chairmen in State's 62 counties have been each of New York's 62 counties. asked to complete a !3-page questionnaire as a research project by Union's Department of Political Science. Coordinating the project is William J. Daniels, assistant professor of Political Science. Prof Daniels plans to compile the results to show background characteristics, socialization pat- terns and issue attitudes among the county chairmen. Compilation Although the individually completed questionnaires will be held in confidence, Prof. Daniels plans to publish the compiled results. Prof. Daniels says there is no other similar study, although there have been some that deal with ward and precinct leaders. None of the articles dealt with New York State. Student Con,'ributors The first stages of the re- search project, including form- ing the many questions, came from the professor's class in \Political Parties and Interest Groups.\ Prof. Daniels and the class then decided to send the ques- Chairmen Queried The questionnaire, in addition to basic biogr,aphical informa. tion, contains questions relat- ing to the individual's reasons for entering politics. other opjnion questions in- clude \Do you think you migh.t some day seek some other elec- tive or app()intive public of· fice\ Background information is also sought on the relative sta- bility of coanty chairman in their individual counties. Ques· tions ask how close the race was when he was elected and how long his predecessor before him served. Fund-Raising Methods Probed Chairmen are asked to relate how candidates in their respec- tive counties are chosen, wheth- er they are drafted or volun- teer. Fund raising procedures are also discussed on the ques- tionnaire. The final three pages of the questionnaire are devoted to seeking the opinions of the var- ious chairmen on current state and local issaes. A few ques· tions each are to be answered only by members of one party. Your Exclusive Foreign Car Agent For M.C .. Jaguar Triumph Voivo fiat Datsun BMC- Austin Healy Sprite 35 CAR DISPLAY Authorized Sales, Parts & Service Whe;e Du'c~m:m hav=l_ shopped for year:;. Come in and browse around NEIMITH IMPORTS RT. 9 in Latham Phone 785-8531 Issues included are the re- cently-defeated state constitu- tion, civil rights, welfare and the regulation of large busi- ness. High Return Hoped For Prof Daniels noted that pres- ently only about 65 percent of the chairmen have returned completed forms. He is hoping for at least 35 percent to give his study the authenticity it re- quires. Prof. Daniels notes that because he is surveying all of the maj~t party chairmen, rath- er than just a random sample, he needs as high a percentage l'eturn as possible. ART WILLIAMSON BSME, U. of Maryland, was assigned to the big blooming mills at our Sparrows Point, Md., Plant soon after joining Bethlehem's 1963 Loop Course. Art is responsible for training of personnel and start-up of new facilities. He's also liaison man between the mill and plant engineering for a $17-million improvement program. ( MANAGEMENT MINDED? Career prospects are better than ever at Bethlehem Steel. We need on-the-ball engineering, technical, and liberal arts graduates for the 1968 .• Loop Course. Pick up a · copy of our booklet at your placement office. An Equal Opportunity !fJmployer in th-e Plans for Progress Program BETHLEHEM STEEL SETHEHEJ.f ST EL Heard about the Senior who stood at the bottom of his class until he convinced th·e Dean to all.ow Genesee Beer in the college store? Now the whole class is behind him. 3

4 Thursday,, January 11, 1968 (/offeehouse To the Editor: The Shape of T o.morrow's Music Publlshed Thursdays during the schooJ year bY the Student Body of Union Colle~e. Schenectady, N. Y. National Advertising RepJ•esentative: National Advertising Service, Inc.. College Publishers Representative, 420 Madl• BOD Ave., N. Y. C. Hi\'har 1•!. 1-'HHt>t'~tttl. .Jr. '7n . Jut>l HuhPHZ<ci·hl 'ti:-. ~t'!) ~- Kl'Hill!'l' -~~~ Jt\'ff lh-ownl~ 'Gtl Gary -PrPvnst '6!1 Steve Fox •c·o Richard Baiagur '69 ..... Cliff ~afane '69 . Editorial Office, Old Gym, Union Col- lege, Publication Office. Schenectady Printing Company, 502 Broadway. Entered in the Schenectady Post Of' flee as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 16c a copy; $3 a year delivered anywhere In the Tln!ted States. .. :H6-S6 H .. . ..........•... l~dit<ll•-in-t'hief ... Businesl::) .Manager :\lana~ing l<~clitor . . ... . :\<>ws EUitor ............. ::lports Editor .......................... FE>atures Editor .:!!6-X6 H :116-9!1~3 . 393-7 84 1.. . I<~xel\utive Editor .... Arts gditor Jl\:-;IOK BO.UtlJ D. Peter Drotman '6n . . . .......... ... ARsistant Business Manager Dick Daniel '70 ....................•...............................................•.......... Photography Edltov Len Simon •;.o.. ......... . . ........ Associate Sports Edito1· Alike 8\\·trsl<Y • 7U . . .... :\ational Ad\·~rth;ing l\lanager Stephen Littman '7 0.......................... ......... ... ...... . ..... Subscription ~.\!anager Carl Goldsand '70 Circulation Manager Larry Rothbloom '70.. Distribution Manage1 S'l'.\}\1!' ~11-:.\IBERS :-iE\\'1:1: Paul Jo'arnham. ::Jte\\P \'all Bili Ouzel\ Howie :\liil<\r. AI Gartn<>r, ::lteve Cole. Handy Sutter. Hall Ross. Bil-l Colm·l\i. FEATl:RER: Paul Andrews, AI Cohen, Harry .:.Iiller. SPORT~'\: HE\nry Fein, Dan Angelo. Jay Blitzma-n. BUSIJS:.;S: Denis 1\lyers, Hi<-h L<'wis. non KPsHier, Jpff Birn. Roy Karlin. Jerry Levine. There's going to be a coffee house on campus. It will provide a variety of performers. from the Capital District; folk mu- sic and jazz will be our major concern. In the next week, Concordiensis, WRUC, and strategically-placed posters will ,provide information on loca- tion, performers, etc. Friday night, January 9th, will be op- ening night. For want of a student center Union presently offers only a limited number of weekend ac- tivities; the coffee house will be a significant addition to the weekend, on-campus entertain- ment. We hope that the scope of the entertainment we pro- vide, and the prevailing atmos- phere of the co;ffeehouse will make it a regular stopping- place for students, dates, and faculty, lf you are interested in per- forming, contact one of the un- . dersigned (377-3252 a:rtd 346- 3019, respectively). We will always encourage ad-lib per- formances, within, of course, the confines of scheduled per- formances. Watch for publicity. Cliff Safane '69 Jim Talbert '69 Campus Action Committee The High Cost of Growing I The Campus Action Commit- tees will hold a meeting tonight in the Hale House Student Lounge. The topics of discus- The growth and development of campus-student organ- sion will be: iza~ions in the past two years is an encouraging sign that I 1. Presence of military re- Umon may soon be able to offer her students the complete, . cruiters on campus well rounded extra-classrcom life that must accompany 1 . . · . excellent academic standards at any really vital college or 2. Racial Imbalance at Umon . . College. 3. Possibility of affiliation umvers1ty. I · · · \f d b h 1 with Students for a Democratic W1th the contributiOns to campus h e rna e Y su~ society (S.D.S.). groups as the film workshop, the Mountebanks, the mus1c . groups the Outing Club, International Relations Club, and All mterested students are WRUC', Union men are now offered wide opportunities for urged to attend. relaxation and enjoyment, pursuit of a hobby or interest, and extra-curricular vocational training and experience. : ! Past experience and present frustrations have shown I that if students at Union are to have the kind of extra- I curricular, on-campus life that is both a complement to the. classroom and a necessary diversion from it, they must build such a life themselves, often with only reluctant and i minimal college support. I If the progress that has been made in the past is to' continue into the future, through the expansion of the 1 programs of many of the existing clubs and the appearance! of new organizations, more money will be needed soon. The ' proliferation and growth of such student activities has strained the Tax Committee to the point where it feels it can no longer gamble on many new ideas and projects, no matter how appealing they may be. The problem is a simple one: a shortage of funds. The student activity fee which each student pays is only nominal and a small increase can assure that when- ever there is creativity and imagination among the students in the area of improving their campus life, it will not be stifled by a lack o.f funds. Concordiensis urges the Student Council at its next meeting to authorize a higher student activity fee, perhaps as high as $15. per term. The higher fee should go into effect with the beginning of the spring term, if possible. We are confident that even so modest a rise as this will provide the funds necessary for the continued growth of student life outside the classroom. 424 State Street Schenectady, New York DARI TREET RESTAURANT YOUR CHOICE CHAR-BROIL STEAK VEAL CUTLET CHICKEN ... $1.50 2049 Von Vranken Ave. FR 7-4261 Jazz Albert Ayler's Live in Green· wich Village (Impulse) is a beautiful a)J>Um. At first lis- tening,. the music is chaotic; it rubs you the wrong way. It reminds you of life's mc>re un- pleasant aspects. Rush hour traffic. Polluted air. Hunger. But listen again. Inside this seemingly chaos is order, beauty and lyricism. \For John Col- trane\ is a haunting piece which expresses love and admiration for a great musician. Perhaps Ayler's lyricism is harder to hear than that of many music- ians', but it's there . An exceJ;lent album indicat- ing the shape of tomorrow's mu- sic. Please listen. Folk Judy Collins' WUdflowers (Elektra) .is one of the most beautiful vocal albums that I have ever heard. The album has everything going for it- fine orchestrations by Joshua , Rifkia, great tunes, and Miss Col1ins who is one of the finest singers today. Especially note- worthy are Joni Mitchell's \Both -..~ ... '·\\ TED LAKE ~~- BSCE, Duke, has had a taste of structural drafting and engineering, shop operations, and steel erection since joining Bethlehem's 1961 Loop Course. Ted is now shop engineer in the elEctric transmission tower shop at our Leetsdale, Pa., Works, where he helps solve a variety of production and engineering problems. MANAGEMENT MINDED~ c Career prospects are better than ever at Bethlehem SteeL We need on-the-ball engineering, technical, and liberal arts graduates for the 1968 Loop Course. Pick up a copy of our hooklet at your placement office. An Equal Opportunity Employer in the Plans for Progress Program BETHLEHEM STEEL A Baby Step Forward ENJOY The college has taken a step in the right direction by giving limited financial support to the Ski Team, Sailing Club, and Bowling Team. Support of this kind, intended to supplement the group's budget from the Tax Committee, is a responsibility which the administration must assume on a continual, long-term basis. We regret, however, the admin- istration's refusal to support the Rugby Team, thus forcing a cutback in the plans of this new and growing sport at Union. It is blatantly unfair to force the student body to carry the entire burden of supporting these activities. These teams, as well as other activities such as the Glee Club, travel over the East spreading the name of Union. In this sense, they play an important public relations role similar to the teams of the major sports. The benefits of this publicity go directly to the college, and it should not seem unreasonable to assume that she pay her share of the costs involved. Concordiensis urges that the administration, the Tax Co:m:mittee, and representatives of these and other organi- zations begin meeting to discuss long-term agreements for supporting these organizations such that they will have the funds necessary for future growth and security. HERSH BEVERAGES A complete line of Mixers and Flavors. Servicing Union for many-many years. Call FR 4-3304 for prompt delivery. HERSH BEVERAGE CO~ 309 UNION STREET ~--------------~----------~--------------· Sides Now\ and Leonard Co- hen's \Hey i'hat's No Way to Say- Goodbye .... 'Blues Paul Butterfield is a good blttesman. He's a skilled instru- mentaiist l!hd: lla.s a good voice. These qualities are evident in The Resurrection of Pigboy Crabshaw. Although the album is good, it has one major weak- ness which prevents Butterfield from being mol!e than good. His rhythm section lacks drive. Sure they play, But that extra little drive wb.ich all great group have is lacking. And this hurts the album. R:ock The Love h~VE made it now that Arthur Lee has learned how to sing. 'l'he Lov,e are one of the top rock groups around. And their new album Forever Changes (Elektr.a~ is excellent. It has good instrumental solos Let the lager freely flow. Down to LoCJis', let us go, intertwined with some e:ll;cellent songs, One of the best rock albums put out in the last year. Campus Chest The Union College Campus Chest collected $365 .of its goal of $2,000. f()r the year during registration the past week in the field house; About 15 representatives ·Of the three religious organizations on campus :participated in the only major student appeal of the year. 'rhe Chest is spon- sored by the Campus Religious Council. Among th-e philanthropic ac- tivities sup!>orted by the drive are the edu~ational suppprt of a young Greek orphan girl, two $300 schDlar-ships to Union stu- dents enrol'led in summer Over- seas Work camps, and support .of the National Scholarship Service. A unique place to dine with old Europecm Atmosphere p NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner :266 State and Erie Blvd. Large par.fies accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR 4-B 917 § .cntLe.me.n and § ~ntLewomEn - Private Sale ENTRE STOCK 10% i'o 50% REDUCTIONS Starting Thursday January ll~ 1968 Open Daily Nine Thirty A.M. lo Six P.M. Thursday and Friday to Nine P.M. - - - -·-· ..... Thursday, I) •flo Di~ t> . t;t By \The F: the topic< John Burl ,, . <> Schenecta< for a De: which toQl! Coffee Ho The Coa ·pJ <-·tic Altern! bers of t: who are d dent John: llll 1 . ru War. 'The conventior Senator E their inter earthy ol '-' : \ 0 nominatio1 tion deleg in the va1 gressional tJ fi, AI BU:rke s ocratic co1 groups, a t> ru· already di states is 1 ality. In tl nation ha '' . \' caHed \th1 Goldwater )Jombing When que •)J Is> •JJ 'JJ flf Dean of ~ pected : ber, Ul6 tendenci experier \' pective too fair. ed. Student-' .,, · 11 masocl1i ' ., i Iii ·.1 experiet offers n vancem1 is possi\ Student- Student of offic- spring one calE Proctor' cident,\ \' Died.\ State 'l dent's An1 Septembet Colony~ \Pressure Scotia Taming o Hellma11 \Gone Wi Tri·City ) : «T. ~' .a 11 ••• •

1, 1968 albums Campus its goal during in ·of in the peal of s spon- ac- drive of two stu- Over- support NT t Thursd~y, Jcmuary H, 1'968 .5 •J 'fr . Dialogue at Dialogue By STEVE WALL \The Failure of LBJ\ was the topic of a discussion led ·by John Burke, chairman of the sibilities of the Coalition form· ing a third party should Presi· dent Johnson obtain the nomi- nation,, Bllrke replied that th,is would never happen because of the long standing loyalties of many of the Coalition's mem- bers to the Democratic Party. Should the :E{epublicans nomin- ate a r.easonably attractive can- didate to doves such as Percy, Rockefeller, or possibly Rom- ney many of the members would be forced .to re-examine their loyalties, he• said. Burke agreed with Sen. McCarthy, who criti- cized people who opposed the war hut are not supporting posi- tive action against President Johnson in this year's. election. Winter Sports At Union UNION CAJ.;.EN.DAR Friday, Jan. 12: Film Series, \Anna Karenina,\ 7:00 p.m., and 9:00 p.m., S.S. 016. ~· <> Schenectady County Coalition - · for a Democratic Alternative, which toQk place at the Dialogue Coifee House. The Coalition for a Democra- ·oJ t·tic Alternative consists of mem- bers of the Democratic Patty who are dissatisfied with Presi- dent Johnson and the Viet N am Dl 1 . r;; War. 'The New York State CDA convention recently endorsed Senator Eugene McCarthy. It is their intention to help Sen. Mc- Carthy obtain the Democratic '-' : ·ru nomination by electing conven- tion delegates favorable to him in the various New York Con- gressional districts. tJ ~ ;\u H~O Again BU:rke said that the old Dem- ocratic coalition of labor, ethnic groups, and intellectuals had t> f.<· already dissolved. The CDA, he states is merely facing this re- ality. In the past four years the nation has witnessed what he ,, . \' caHed \the vicarious triumph of Goldwater\ in matters like the bombing .of North Viet Nam. When questioned as to the pas- •)J . \' The Dialogue Coffee House at 121 South Feny Street is spon- soring discussions and programs on Thursday through Saturday nights. All programs are open· to the public. Particularly inter- esting programs scheduled for this month include: Blues, Work and Ethnic Songs on Sunday, January 14; an Open End Dis- cussion on Hate, Saturday Jan- uary 20; and Experimental FHms, Sunday, January 28. For further information, anyone in- terested can phone 346-9742. Classified Ads •JJ 'JJ Dean of Students-Opening ex- ~ pected shortly after Septem- ber, 1968. Must have sadistic tendencies and no fraternity experience. Present and pros- \' pective office holders appear too fair. Hatchet man need- ed. Student-Opening in spring for .,, 11 masocltist with no fraternity in '64-'65. High mortality rate. Beware of SS. Student-Stadent Body Vice President should share bur- den of ab()ve office. Excellent opportunity for advancement. Faculty-College Master of Ceremonies must be able to throw big shows in complete secrecy, By ALAN COHEN For those who might have difficulty identifying the setting of the below photograph, well ... don't let it bother you. It's not something you've probably seen recently, and you may not recognize the participants. From left to right we see Gary Aitken, Dick Fiedler, Mike Wilser, Vic Lerish, and Scott Wagar, aU Freshmen living on West College's fourth floor, the \Zoo.\ On a chilly (-14°) Janu- ary evening, the boys decided they~d enjoy a diversion from their strenuous studies. The re- sult was four trips into the rath- er cold snow that covers thP campus. Besides the headstands pictured here, the boys perform- ed a pyramid. Actually, the purpose of this venture g()es further than meets the eye Mike Wils('r wanted to send some pictUl'tS tv a spec- ial girl in Florida and thought this was as good a scene as any. It must have been only pure devotion which made his friends agree to help out. The Preliminaries However, the excitement for the evening did not ·begin with this event. Earlier, two other Freshmen, Mitch Barden and Greg Nicosia, held a race to de- termine the champion of West College's third floor. The track four freshman Playmates fro'lic in snow for our photographer. Basketball, Union vs. Harpur, 8:00 p.m., Field House. Saturday, Jan. 13: Swimming, Union (F) vs. Norwich, 2:15 p.m., Gym, Swimming, Union vs. Norwich, 3:00 p.tn., Gym. Basketball, Union vs. Hamil- ton, 8:00 p.m., Field House. Sunday, Jan. 14: Film Work- shop, \My Little Chickadee\ with W. C. Fields and Mae West, 3:00p.m. and 7:00p.m., s.s. 016. Monday, Jan. 15: Recruiting, U. S. Army, 10:00 a.m.-2:00 p.m. Wells House. Speaker, Prof. Andrew Field, Univ. of Queensland, Austral- ia, \Nabokov & New Direc- tions in Contemporary Liter- ature,\ 8:00 p.m., S.S. 016. Tuesday, Jan. 16: Student-Fac- ulty · Bridge Tournament NHFL 8:00 p.m. Thursday, Jan. 18: Convocation, Henry Steele Commager, \Col- lapse of American Foreign Policy-from 1945 to pres- ent,\ 11:30 a.m., Memorial Chapel. Friday, Jan. 19: Film Series. \Diary of a Country Priest,\ 7:00 and 9:00p.m., S.S. 016. Coffee House, Cliff Safane Jazz Trio, Al Ziegler and Carl Rosenstock (folk music), 8:30 p.m., Bronner House. Saturday, Jan. 20: Wrestling, Union (F) vs. Alfred, 1:00 was a course from West Col- Since this is only the begin- p.m. lege around Richmond College, ning of the winter trimester, Wrestling: Union vs. Alfred, and back to the starting point who can say what other ex- 1:00 p.m. -a distance over a quarter o.f citement the term holds in Swimming, Union (F) vs. Ho- a mile. Mitch and Greg ran store? Maybe this is just an- bart, 2:00 p.m., Gym. experience. IFC Presidency offers no opportunity for ad- vancement, in fact liquidation Numerous openings for Milk- toasts-Raculty, Staff and Ad- ministration positions avail- able. Warning - the com- petition is fierce. barefoot, wearing only u.nder- other reason to make Union Swimming: Union vs. Hobart, , wear. College co-ed. 2:45 p.m., Gym. F=;;.;_ __________ ~;;...........:\---\---------1 r-----..:;,;,;;;;;~~ ...... --- . , ~; is possible . Rooms: On campus, cheap, no heat, running water, hot wat- er optional at extra cost, cheap. ·.1 'l· ••• • • Student--Fill Presidency of Student Body for a full term of office beginning with the spring elections and lasting one calendar year. Last done Proctor's Theater: \The In- cident,\ \The Man Who Finally Died.\ State Theater: \The Presi- dent's Analyst,\ \Two Weeks in September.\ Colony Theater: \Paris Blues,\ \Pressure Point.\ Scotia Art Theater: \The Taming of the Shrew.\ Hellman's Albany Theater: \Gone With the Wind.\ Tri-City Twin Drive-In (Two ) : \Infidelity American \The Love Cult,\ Every- It\ (Second screen): Million Years B.C.,\ Frankenstein Created Woman,\ \The Mummy's Shroud.\ FOR RENT Rooms: Heated, TV, Radio, Bath and Kitchen Facilities, Girls, Biilliards and Heated Pool. If you've paid your room rent we'll bill the College for the remainder of the term. Gavel: Hardly used, hard wal- nut, engraved (my name) with nifty college seal, won't need it till spring elections. 374- 6324 (Ray). DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and legal Beverages 118-120 JAY STREET Gvelgn Wood READING DYNAMICS GRADUATES OVER 350,000 This revolutionary reading course in its 9th year is now avaUable at the UNION COLLEGE CAMPUS to students and faculty Senators, Educators, Business Leaders Praise Results Our Average Student Reads· 4.7 Times Faster Than His Starting Speed WITH EQUAL OR BETTER COMPREHENSION The internationally famous EVELYN WOOD Reading Dynamics _Institute INVITES YOU TO ATTEND A FREE DEMONSTRATION OF THIS UNIQUE METHOD WHERE YOU WILL SEE AN AMAZING DOCUAo\Et-.ITED FILM ABOUT READING DYNAMICS LEARN HOW READING DYNAMICS CA.N HELP YOU TO FASTER READING, IMPROVED COMPREHENSION, GREA.TER RETENTION. FREE DEMONSTRATIONS FREE DEMONSTRATIONS WILL BE HELD Tuesday, Jan. J6 and Thursday, Jan. 18- Bailey Hall Room 20l 3:30 P.M. & 7 P.M. For Further Information, write to READING DYNAMICS ·INSTITUTE TEN EYCK HOTEL, ALBANY, N. Y. or call 462-5408 ------------~----~------------------------------~ ZELLMER'S NORGE L. G. BALFOUR CO. LAUNDRY AND C'LE ANI.NG VILLAGE AT Hi59 VAN VRANKEN AVE. led Hattie Street) DRY CLEANING WASHERS 8 lbs. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ $2.00 I 2 lb. ___________ _ 4Lb~ Min.-------- 1.00 20 Lb..------------ DRYERS 30 Lb. ____ -------- 10 Min.----------- .1'0 .25 .35 .50 OI'E~ - 8 A.:ll. to 10 P.l\1. l'vlou. to Fri. - Sat. 8 A.l\1. to 5 l'.l\1. 10 A,l\1, t~ 6 P.l\1, SUJHlays IF YOU HAVE NI':VER liACJ NORGE DRY CLEAN NG DONE WE CAN B.ET ~OU WILL BE AMAZED CARL SORENSEN BADGES - RINGS - FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY • PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - KEYS MEDALS • TROPHIES Write or Call fraternity Jewelers 729 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, N.Y. 13210 The PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP Serving Union For 34 Years 262 Saratoga Road MAYFAIR SHOPPING CENTER SILVER DINER of Schenectady At 1 he Sig11 of the Red Neon Pipe TUES. tnru SAT. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. also ERIE BOULEVARD 6 A.M. · 11 P.M. 346-9522 THURS. and FRI.: 7 to 9 PM SCOTIA, N. Y. Excellent Foocl and Informal Atmosphere Phone 399-1630 ·· Traditional Natural Shoulder Clothing Jos. Nusbaum, Inc. 447-451 State Street - Schenectady Printing Co., Inc. 502 Broadway 377·8838 MIDTOWN BARBER SHOP All Haircuts done by Appoint~ ment from Tues. thru Fri. Ap- pointments not necessary Sat. 515 UNION ST. 377-4010 DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Horne Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott Street ~· , <Down Town Schenectady I Open Daily 10 to 1 A.M. ~=========-===========:=~I Sundays 5 P.M. to 1 A.M.

6 Wider· Geographical Distribution Urged- Program Initiated With Coffee Hours Two Union College leaders initiated a campaign over the holi- days to expand the geographical distribution of the student body in the future. Richard A. Susko '69, business manager of the 1968 Garnet, and Robert Killian, recently appointed acting president of WRUC, have organized a series of coffee h()urs in cooperation with t·he college's admission department. The project takes place in eight majon cities in the country, the purpose being to encourage more aplications to Union. Coffee hours were held at the homes of alumni and were attended by Union students. .. We want to emphasize the sch«Jo 1 as a personality,\ Susko said, explaining the project, \rather than as a .straight academic establishment.'' He said that many of Union's engineering students might be at RPI if they hadn't recognized the difference in personalities of the schools. Susko said that some of the coffee hours planned for the vacation did not come off, but they will be held during spring vacation. The program was held successfully in Pittsburgh, Ro- chester, and Philadelphia. The other cities involved in the new program are Cleveland, Buffalo, Washington, Baltimore and Seattle. Susko said that he hopes the alumni eventually will help to organize the program in the future. He and Killian found it difficult to organize the coffee hours :£rom here. Among the local student participants in the program over the vacation were Jay Gottlieb, Gary Abramson, Barry Sheridan, Rusty Manker, Dick Reingold and Walt Hlltton. 1968 Hoop 0 • Tour1tey .•. Continued from Page 8 unbappy that his club had been denied funds. Porter stated that approximately seven mat- ches have been scheduled for the spring, but that without fin- ancial aid, almost all of the schedule would have to be can- celled. Porter feels that if money could be appropriated for equipment this season, the club could operate on a rela- tively small budget in the fu- ture. The administration should be commended for providing the money to allow the sailing and skiing teams to operate, but even though much of the rugby club's request was outside of the administration's guide lines, the club should receive some support to allow its functioning this spring. The appropriations, however, do not solve the basic question -who shall have responsibility for the club sports? The issue should be resolved by all per- sons concerned-the administra- tion, the Athletic Department, the Tax Committee, and the clubs themselves, so that the clubs can develop with the knowledge that they will have financial support. We feel a fttnd with the combined help of the Student Tax Committee and the administration is the best solution. Miscellany Union College quarterly mag- azine, \Symposium has been cited by the American Alumni Council for \Significant editor- ial achievement in the field of alumni publishing.\ The award was presented .for the issue, Spring 1967, entitled \The College at the Crossroads.\ The issue dealt with the future of the small, private, liberal arts college. It reported on educational developments at several small men's colleges in the Northeast United States. A portion dealing with Haver- ford College was reprinted in \Haverford College Horizons.\ The special issue was research- ed and written by \Symposium\ editor Bernard R Carman, Un- ion's director of public relations and publications. The faculty evaluation .poU distributed late last semester has been tabulated and will be sent to the printer soon. Ac- cording to Steve Glanzrock, who c0ordinated the poll, it should be distributed to students wiith- in several weeks. Contin11ed from Page 8 dismal percentage of 33.1. Bill Niedel and Cliff Feldman, lead· ing Garnet pointmakers in the first two ball games scored 11 and 10 points, respectively in three tournament games. Bar- ry Katzman scored 26 points in the first two games of the sea- son but after scoring the Gar- net's first basket of the tourna- ment he departed with a sprain- ed ankle which forced him out of the next two games. Add· ing to Schmid's troubles prior to the tourney, the Garnet's two tallest players, 6-7 Jim Derrick and 6-6 Rich Heiden, were de· clared academically ineligible. ances, including a high of 18 points against Lehigh, Joe James, who was scholastically inelegible last year and did not try c:mt this season joined the team at the beginning of the tourney and with only two days of practice played three fine games. James held MIT star David Janss<Jn, the MVP for the turnament, to 17 and scored 13 points himself against Le- high. Tad Knight came off the bench with a fine rebounding efl'()rt against the tall Lehigh : -;::, :::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::;:::~~::;:;::;:;~~~:::;:::::::;::::;:::::::;;::;::;;::;::::;:::::;:::;:;::;:;::;:;::::::; quintet, pulling down 13. Over- .all Union outrebounded Lehigh 42-38, and played their best In spite of the three losses the tourney had a few bright spots. Craig Carlson won a starting position at guard and a berth on the all-tournament team with three steady perform. Despite fiendish torture dynamic BiC Duo writes first time, every time! Bic's rugged pair of stick pens wi!ls again in unen \1ng war against ~,all-point skip, cloJ;, .md smear. DesJ.)ite horrible punishment by mad sci<'ntists, BJC still writes flrst time, every time. And no wonder. Bic's \Dyamite\ Ball is the hardest metal made, encased in a solid brass nose cone. Will not skip, clog or smear no matter what devilish abuse is devised for them by sadistic students. Get the dynamic BIC Duo at your campus store now. '-1~ ,_ ll\1 WATERMAN·BIC PEN CORP. MILFORD, CONN. SiC Fine Pomt 25C '1'1 I N: (,)) \i't z m. \t'1 :-' defense of the season. WANTED Piano Player for Jczz Orchestra CALL Sran Gulin 11 0 Fox 393u1070 ltOLLIE MOORE :BSCE, U. of Michigan, ]s responsible for over $10 Diillion in annual sales-less than ten , .. , . years after graduation. :Fresh from Bethlehem's Loop Course training, Rollie was assigned to the Des Moines area. He's done a fine job. In 1966 he became Resident Manager. '>i;;>*'·\ ( MANAGEMENT k. MINDED? •t111~ Career prospects are 'better than ever at :Bethlehem Steel. We need <>n-the-ball engineering, -technical, and liberal arts ~aduates for the 1968 Loop Course. Pick up a oeopy of our booklet at your }llacement office. An Equal Opportunity Employer in. the Plans for 6 ~~~g1·ess Program BETHLEHEM STEEL pETHIEH[t.t ST EL r RITZ RESTAURANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featuring HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS, CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Parties Pizza & Sandwiches at All Hours Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open Daily 1 J A.M. to 3 A.M. there's one place that does it! • Watch Repairs • Diamonds Reset • Jewelry Repaired WORK DONE • Rings Sized • Engraving • Pearl & Bead Stringing ON THE PREMISES _._.JAW JkWEIIY t.Jhi, COMPANY 315 State Street. Schenootad)f FR 4-8219 Old Dutch Restaurant OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK A Touch of Holland in Sehenedady Excellent Food - Moderate Prices 107r DISCOUNT FOR ALL UNION STUDENTS 1617 Union St. Phone 374-577.0 Union Pharmacy 600 UNION STREET FREE DELIVEltY COLOGNES & AFTERSHAVE LOTIONS fR 4-3605 Jade East - English Leatker - Brut Old Spice - Canoe - That Man Brituh Sterling - Hawaiian Surf Jean Nate LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian .. American Food 1.125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady 01 6-97# Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Ch~ps Visit Our Cocktail Bcs.r Th11rsday, January 11, ·1968 ., Stratton To Speak lJ. s~ Congressman Sarruel Stratton, a former Union Phil- osophy Professor and Ex-Mayor of Schenectady, spoke to the Freshman Comp; Ed, 10 Free- dom and Authority classes, was interviewed by the press at Memoria'! Chapel, and was ques- tioned by students at a recep- tion held today at Hale Heme. Mr. Stratton is one of many \experts\ who have been \brought in\ to discuss the topic of Freedom and Authority. A political phi·losopher who often advocates the work of the 18th century philosopher Spinoza, Stratton suggested this Dutch Jew's ideologies are related to the concept of freedom and authority. EdQcated at University of Ro- chester (B.A.), Haverford ;, (M.A.), and Harvard (M.A.), Stratton is a veteran civil ser- vant. Highly rated among Con- servatves, Stratton has been the , Deputy Secretary General for the Far Eastern Commssion, Secretary to Massachusetts Con- • gressman ElJ.iot, Captain of the Naval Reserve, and candidate for the .office of governor and senator. A well kno:vvn \Hawk\ ·» and member of the Armed Ser- vjce Committee of Congress, Stratton has advocated a boycott , against French wine and sup- ported the wide-spread use of American wine. ----~------------------------~----------------~~-· 1968: ITS CAUSE AND CUR.E Are you still writing \1967\ on your papers and letters? I'll bet you are,. you scamp! But I am not one to be harsh with e·ose who forgot we are in a new year, for I I?yself have long been :guilty of the same lapse. In fact, m mr senior year at college, I wrote 1873 on tny paJ!ers until nearly November of 1874! (It turned out, mctdentally, not to be such a serious error because, as we all know, 1874 was later repealed by President Chester A. Arthur in a fit of pique over the Black Tom Explosion. And, as we all know, Mr. Arthur later came to regret his hasty action. Who does not recall that famous meeting between Mr. Arthur and Louis Napoleon when Mr. Arthur said, \Lou I wish I hadn't of repealed 1874:' Whereupon the French emperor made his immortal rejoinder, \Tipi que nous et tyle·r tu\. Well sir, they had many a good laugh about that, as vou can imagine,) But I digress. How can we remember t<J write 1968 on our papers and letters? Well sir, the bes~ way .is to find something memorable about 1968, somethmg umque to fix it firmly in your mind. Happily, this is very simple be- cause as we all know 1968 is the first year in history that is divisible by 2 by 5 and by 7. Take a pencil and try it: 1968 divided by'2 is 9S4! 1968 divid~d by 5 ~s ~93%;, 1968 divided by 7 is 281¥7. Th1s mathematical cur10s1ty w1ll not occur again until the year 2079, but we will ~II be so busy then celebrating the Chester A. Arthur b1-centenerary that we will scarcely have time to be writing papers and l€tters and like that. Anotber clever little trick to fix the year 1968 in your tnind is to remember that 1968 spelled backwards is 8691. \Year\ spelled backwards is \raey!' \Personna\ sp21led backwards is \Annosrep:' I mention Personna because I am paid to write this cqtumn by the makers o~ P~rsonna Super Stainless Steel Blades, and they are mclmed to withhold my check if I omit to mention their product. Not, mind you, that it is any chore for me to sing the praises of Personna, for it is a seemly blade that shaves you cleanly, a gleaming blade that leaves you beaming, a trouble-free blade that leaves you stubble-free, a match- less blade that leaves you scratchless. If you are tired of facial slump, if you are fed up with jowl blight, try Personna today ... available both in double-edge style and Injector style. And if I seem a bit excessive in my admira- tion for Personna, I ask you to remember that to me Personna is more thana razor blade; it is also an employer. But I digress. We were speaking of the memorable as- pects of 1968 and high among them, of course, is the fact that in 1968 the entire House of Representatives stands for election. There will, no doubt, be many lively and inter- esting contests, but none, I'U wager, quite so lively and interesting as the one in my own district where the lead- ing candidate is none other tban Chester .A. Arth~r! Mr. Arthur, incidentally, is not the first ex~ president to come out of retirement and run for the House of Repre- sentatives. John Quincy Adams was the first. Mr. Adams also holds another distinction: he was the first son of a president ever to serve as president. It is true that Martin Van Buren's son, Walter \Blinky\ Van Buren, was at one time offered the nomination for the presidency, but he, alas, had already accepted a bid to become Mad Ludwig of Bavaria. James K. Polk's son, on the other hand, be- came Salmon P. Chase. Millard Fillmore's son went into aluminum siding. This later became known ~s the Mis- souri Compromise. * * * © 196B, Max Shulman In Missouri, or anywhere else, there is no compromise with quality in Personna or in Personlla's partner in •having pleasure.,...Burma-Shave. Burma-Shav.e comes to you iJ& regrdar or menthol. Try it. You'll find it soaks ring• around any other lather, ,, I} • Thursday, ~All Sophn Garnet was name1 SoP,homorl a fine sea named to ·~team four more of tl en end. ·~ who was c team morE elSe in Di1 out for PI: ors by tac Wagner, VI little-Amer honorable little-Amer An obvl ECAC weE resulted in for deservi two of the ommission tion of v back from The ECA~ halfbacks: terback le: a pass cal former. · George La in pass c tastic 74 ·~ only once tion and r.1 recognitioJ G Craig C~ season in passes for \'touchdown a greater 1 to injury. four times, ,,. was chose sophomore ..

1, ·1968 Thursday, Ja,nuary ] 1 , 1 968 ., ·AU-American, AU-Stars, All • • • Case Rolls 237d656; Team 9 Holds Lead Ro- , (M.A.), ser- Con- the , for Con- ,. of the nor and \Hawk\ ·- Ser- boycott ., SUP· use of ,, Swan Sophmore of the Year '<£ Garnet split end Rich Swan was named ECAC Division III Sophomore of the Year to cap a fine season in which he was named to the weekly ECAC ·~team .four times, twice as sopho- more of the year and twice as en end. The fleet sophomore, who was chosen for the weekly team more times than any one elSe in Division III, was beaten out for Player of the Year hon- ors by tackle John Gloistein of Wagner, who was a first string little-American. Swan received :honorable mention in the AP little-America poll. An obvious omission in the ECAC weekly all-star team has resulted in a lack of recognition for deserving Union gridders in two of the last three years. The ommission is that of the posi- tion of wingback or flanker- back from the weekly choices. The ECAC .backfield has two halfbacks a fullback, and a quar- terback leaving no provision for a pass catching backfield per- former. In 1965 1 wingback George LaPorte led the nation in pass catchin~ with a fan- tastic 74 grabs, but was chosen only once at the halfback posi- tion and received no season,end recognition. Great Season Craig Carlson enjoyed a great season in 1967, catching 49 passes for 730 yards and five performance against R.P.I. His 199 yard and 237 yard efforts against St. Lawrence and Hobart wer.e overlooked largely because the ECAC did not once pick a pass-catcher at the halfback the position for which Carlson had to be nominated. Six Garnet gridders were named to the Independent Col- lege Athletic Conference All- Concordiensis AII-Opponer~t Football Team Offense Split end-Bill Knott, Alfred Tight end-Bill Drummond, . Williams Tackle8-'-'Bill Chadwick. St. Lawrence and Kevin Car- • licle, RPI . Guards-Jv.raurice Keating, King's Point and :Brooks Bragdon, Williams Center-A! Ward, Hobart Quarterback-John Contento, RPI Halfbacks-Jack Maitland, Williams, and :Bob Lavin- ia, King's. Point · Fullback-Eill Pomeroy,· Hamilton Defense Ends-Joe Isabella, King's· Point and Leo Teitel, Ham- ilton Tackles----'Robert Clark,. Ro- chester and John Yanuzzi, Alfred · Middle Guard-Ross Wilson, Williams Linebackers-Dave Ragusa, Rochester, Joe Patterson, King's Point, and Bill As- senheimer, Alfred yself my until 1874 a fit all Mr. 'Lou, us et that, \' touchdowns in spite of missing a greater part of two games due to injury. Nominated for ECAC four times, the crafty sophomore , 1 · , . was chosen only once, making \ sophomore of the week for his Backs-Mike Johnston, Al- fred, Charlie Huntzinger, King's Point, and Paul Sin- ger, Rochester on find to fix e be- that it: 1968 not busy and your 8691. pelled I ed to g the a of try eand me leas- fact and lead- ! to of a one he, be- into Mis- in soaks t' • If. • t I ' •j I • • ne Kids choke on polluted air. Streets are januned .. by cars with no place to go. Italy's priceless art and libraries are ravaged by floods. This is the. w~y the world is, but it's not the way it has to be. Air pollu- tion can be prevented. Better transpC>:ttation can be devised. Something can ¢ven be done a.boat the weather. Many people at General Electric are already working on these problems, but we need more. We need help from young engineers and star team by the coaches of the five-team conference. Rich Swan, chosen as sopho• more of the year in the league in addition to an end spot, heads the list. Sophomore Craig Carl· son was named at wingback while junior Joe James pulled down the fullback slot. Defen- sive players named were senior end Sam Dill, junior tackle Tom Ollerst and sophomore lineback- er Skip Lynch. Si:x Dutchmen were named to the ICAC second team includ- ing tackle Ted Jennings, guard Doug Mele, quarterback Ken Pearce, defensive end John Bur- ton, and defensive halfbacks Steve Bauer and Steve Ciesinski. Garnet Booters The 1967 Garnet boote:rs, posting the best soccer mark since 1958, placed three men on the ICAC All-Star team. Union's 3-1-11eague mark placed second behind .;!:-0 R.P.I. Sopho- more Bob Okello, who lead the Garnet in scoring, was chosen at a forward spot while senior goalie Ben Volinski tied R.P.L's Bob Hatch for the first team honors. Defensive standout sen· ior Larry McFarlane captured a fullback spot. Four individual grid records were established during the 1967 Garnet grid season. Rich Swan set two of the new marks; 735 total yards .pass receiving, and eight touchdown passes caught. The former records were held by George LaPorte (724 yards) and Art Marshall (six). Craig Carlson set a single game yard- age mark of 237, breaking Marc Hurlbut's record of 222. Jim Sabella's 42-yard field goal is the longest in Union College history, Al Case's fine 656 series which helped league-leading Team #9 to a four point sweep highlight- ed last week's action in the Dutch Classic Bowling League. Case roiled games of 222, 197, and 237 on route to his triple, which equals the previous high for the season in the league. The sweep by Team #9 main- tained its first place margin of five and a half games over Team#. Team #7 held second place by virtue of a 4-0 win over Team #5. Don Hovey and .Sandy Williamson paced #7 with 235- 551, 211·563 respectively, while Ed Fauth scored 209·553 for #5, Team #6 downed Team # 10 3}'1-%, with the trio of Dave Gourlie, Doug Vergith and John Hammerstrom leading the way. Gourlie scored 214-584 while Vergith had 233-555 and Ham- merstrom 200-541, Moffitt's Liquor Store held on to third place by sweeping Poggi's 4·0, behind Charlie Sul- livan's 203-556, while in the final match Cavalier's Restaur- ant downed Teddy K's Tavern 4'0. Case's 656 triple increased his individual average lead to eleven pins. Case is currently averaging 193, while Sandy Wil- liamson is in second place at 182. THIS WEEK'S GAMES I Basketball Friday: Horpur ot Un'on Memorial Field· Hou•e 8:00 j Saturday: Hamilton ot Union Memorial F.ield House s,oo Tuosday: Unio\ ·(V and F) ct Wesleyan Wrestling Saturday: Alfred at Union Alumni Gym 1 ,oo Swimming Saturday: i'lorwich at Union IV and Fl Foote Pool· 2:15 LAST WEEK'S RESULTS Wrestling Uni•n 38, Harlford 3 Hartford IS, Union (F) 16 you. scientists; and we nEJed help from business and liberal arts graduates who understand people and theil.' problems. If you want to help solve impmtant problemsJ we'd like to talk to you. We'll be visiting campus soon. Drop by the placement off~ce and arrange for an interview. . GENERAL fj ELECTRIC An equal opportunity employer Mermen Open Saturday; Frosh Look Powerful 7 The Garnet swimmers a.pen their season Saturday with a home match versus Norwich, counting upon a small: group of top per- formers to guide them to a si.iccessful season despite lack of depth. Co-captains Dick Amesbury and Dick Corrigan will lead the team into competition. Corrigan is the number one backstroke competitor, followed by Fred Fagal. Tom Flynn will swim a new distance, the 1000 yard freestyle. IIi the sp:rints Coach Benson looks to Kevin Hobin as his key operative. Dave Seward, a sopho- more competing for the first time at Union, has become the number two sprinter in the 50 yard dash, displaying remarkable progress. Junior diver Richmond Harvey has a good opportunity to compete in the states this year. Steve Werlin, a junior, has a chance for the N.C.A.A. nationals, small college division, in the butterfly. His best mark last season was a 2.12:8, and this season's qualifying time is a 2.11:8. Coach Bob Benson's freshman swimming squad_ have an ex· cellent chance of \reversing last season's 0-4 mark.\ The freshmen comprise one of the strongest groups of swimmers the school has had in recent years; Coach Benson will be able to gauge his team's mettle this Saturday, when both the freshmen and the varsity launch their horne. seasons with a meet against Norwich. Burt Yanl?'{er, the fr~sh's \most .outstanding performer'~ is in ~xcellent conditLOn. He will be used m the 200 and 400 yara free- style, and wi:ll anchor the relay team. Mike Gow and Jim Newton provide the club with good depth in the backstroke. The Horwath brothers, John swimming breast and Mike the butterfly, are two solid performers with high potential. :Bruce Graber adds strength in the breast stroke and is a highly competent performer. :Bob Szatrowski is a versatile performer, swimming the 100 yard butter- fly and freestyle. Mike Rone, number 6 diver in Minnesota H.S. competition provides the freshmen with good strength at this important event. D Chi, Fiji Win Intramural Titles Delta Chi and Phi Gamma Delta wound up the intramural volleyball and basketball sea- son with respective victories over Delta Phi and Phi Sigma Delta. To clear the road to the finals, Delta Chi handed Beta Theta Pi a nifty two games to zero loss in the volleyball tourney semi-finals. In the tense, well-played finals, the Brown Cupper's of Delta Chi subdued the challenge from Delta Phi to win the best of three series, two games to zero. Over in the badminton tourney, Delta Chi's luck turned sour as they lost to a strong Phi Gamma Delta team two games to one in the semi-finals. In the fin- als, the champion Fiji's had lit- tle trouble disposing of Phi Sig- ma Delta three games to zero. Thursday, January 18, explore an • • engineering career on earth's last frontier. .. ~-~ ... ~ Talk with 1'-tewport News On-Campus Career Con- sultant about engineering openings at world's largest shipbuilding company-where your future is as big as today's brand new ocean. Our half-a-billion-dollar backlog of orders means high start· ing salary, career security, with your way up wide open . It also means scope for all your abilities. We're involved with nuclea.r ship propulsion and refueling, ru1clear aircraft carrier and submarine building, marine automation. We've recently completed a vast oceanographic ore survey. We're a major builder of giant water power and heavy industrial equipment. We're starting to apply our nautical nuclear know-how to the fast expanding field of nuclear electric power generation. We're completing competitive systems designs for the Navy's $1 billion plus LHA fleet concept. Interested in an advanced degree or research? We're next door to Virginia Associated Research Cent~r with one of the world's largest synchrocyclotrons, offering advanced study in high energy physics. We're close to Old Dominion College and. University of Virginia Extension Division, where you can get credits for a master's degree, or take courses in Microwave Theory, Solid State Electronics, Nuclear En- gineering and other advanced subjects. Ask about scho.lar- ships, tuition grants, study and research leaves to imple· ment these opportunities. Ask, too, about the pleasant living and lower living costs, here in the heart of Virginia's historic seaside vacation land, with super!> l>eaches, golf, fishing, boating, hunting. IMMEDIAtE ENGINEERING CAREER OPENINGS Mechanical Engineers Electrical Engineers Marine Engineers Industrial Engineers Systems A11alysts Naval Architects Nuclear Engineers Civil Engineers Metallurgical Engineers See our representative B. L. Skeens Thursday, January 18 He'll be at the Placement Office to answer questions, dis- cuss qualifications, take applications for fast action; NtWPORT NFWS ,SHIPEUILDING AND DRY DOCK COMPANY, NEWPORT NEWS, VIRGINIA An Equal Opportunity Employer.

$$Sports Quiz$$ Next Week ConQordy Sports Harpur !' Hamilton Next Cage Foes \We've dug ourselves in.to a deep hole,\ to quote Coach Schmid, sums up the 1967 por- tion of the Garnet schedule which ended with the Gamet at 1-4. The 1968 segment of the season hegins with a pair of home games at the Fieldhouse Friday and Saturday nigh.ts. The Garnet face a 2-3 Harpur- squad tomorrow night at 8 and they take on a high scoring Hamilton team Saturday at the same time. They then travel to Wesleyan on Tuesday where the 1-1 frosh will make their- 1968 deln1t. The cagers received th.ree se- vere jolts to their alr-eady troubled season this .past week. Joe James, who returned to the team in early December and .-·lf'I\''M~. and Hamilton ( 101·89), three very capable teams. Harpur is not a member of the NCAA or ECAC, whJch allows them to use freshmen on the varsity and with two freshman starters, they are using the sit- uation to their advantage. One of the frosh, guard Tom Gomul- ka, and 5-8 senior g~ard Larry 20 points per game. 6-2 fresh- man Mark Saperstein and 6-3 sophomore Jerry HiFsch are the forwards while 6-2 ~aphomore Gainen are both aveu1ging over Frank Goodrich at cente1· is the team's leading rebounder. Gain- en and Goodrich were both out- standing in Harpur's 57-52 upset win over the Garnet in Bingham- ton last year. Rebounding may well be the key against Harpur, Crag Carlson (1) and Tad Knight were two of the bright spots in a otherwise dismal. tournament showing for the Garnet cagers. played well in the Cluistmas tournament, has decided to for- goe the rest of the season to concentrate on academics. Pete Garrison, who was struek with mononucleosis in November, has returned to school but -will be unavailable to the team this season. Adding to Schmid's troubles an attack of fill has affected three team meinbers. Bill Priscott, Tad Knight. and Bill Neidel may or may n()t be available this weekend. If every- one is available, the starting lineup will probably consist of Craig Carlson and Barr:y Katz- man at guards, with Cliff Feld- man, Knight, and Prescott in the front court. Harpur represents a \must\ game for the Garnet but the Colonials will not be an easy opponent. Harpur is riding a two-game win streak, having de- feated Wilkes 82-78 and hap- less Utica 94·80. Defeats have come at the hands of Oneonta (79-67), Genesco State (66-64), the opponents one-two scoring advantage but at least one of punch must be stopEJed. In the Continentals of Ham- ilton, who own a 6·3 record, the Garnet face a high scoring fast-breaking ball club. The Continentals who are averaging 87 points per game, won their first four games of the season on lopsided margins over weak teams-Brooklyn Poly, N. Y. Maritime, Harpur and Utica. In the Capital City tour-ney at Al- bany, Hamilton lost tVlo of their games to RPI and Albany State but scored an impressive 77-66 win over Siena. Last weekend the Continentals split a pair, beating St. Lawrence 94-93 and losing to RPI 77-66. Hamilton's well-balanced scor- ing attack is led by fi-11 junior guard Brooks McCu~m who is averaging 20 points per game. The team's leading rebounder is Continued on Page 2 TOURNEY OVER - FINALLY! The Garnet five ended the 1967· part of their campaign on a dismal note dropping all three games that it played in the Un- ion Invitational. Hope College, Lehigh, and MIT shared tourney honors with a 2-1 record in the round robin event. After split- ting a pair of contests with Nor- wich and Hartford on the first weekend of the season. the hoopsters had a 26-day Layoff which can partly explain the poor showing. The Garnet were completely outclassed by MIT, 76-47, but gave both Hope and Lehigh a battle before succumbing. The Garnet played a strong second half against Hope and lost 70-58 while they were close down to the wire in losing 52-46 to Le- high, Poor shooting was the down- fall of the entire Garnet team in the tournament as they shot 64 of 193 in three games for a Continued on Page 6 WHY NOT SPEND SPRING VACATION 196!1 IN FABULOUS BERMUDA Now low COLLEGE WEEI< rate of $185 includes round trtp jet fare, hotel transfer, and 8 days and 7 nights at the Montgomer-y Cottages across from famous Elbow Beach. Or, how about 8 days & 7 nights in JAM I CA - $229 NASSAU- $215 For Information CCIII Neil Barkin - 372-8606> Club Sports By GAitY PREVOST Last fall Jim Rubinstein of the Student Tax Committee an- nounced that four club sports- bowling, skiing, sailing and rug- by would no longer ,receive fin- ancial supp()rt. The Tax Com· mittee felt that since the four activities were concerned with representing Union College in intercollegiate sports, they should be given sup:port thrrough the Athletic Department. The Faculty Committee on Athletics denied the l'equest of the Tax Committee to bring the sports into the athletic budget, thus leaving the clubs without sup- port. With the support of the Tax Committee, the four clubs went to the administration for the money to· sustain their opera- tions, and last week it was an- nounced that three of the clubs will receive money from the President's Special Fund. The ski club will receive $250, the sailing club $200, and the bowl, ing club $50. The rugby club will receive no funds. According to Dean Theodore Lockwood, the money was giv- en as a stop-gap· IQeasure for this year, but does not repre- sent a long-term solution. The special fund money was appro- priated to C()Ver entry fees and in the case of the ski team, lodging. Money was not appro- priated for equipment or per- sonal expenses such as meals and traveling costs. The rugby club was denied funds because its requests were entil'ely with- in the area of equipment and personal expenses. Reaction ()f the clubs to the appropriations have been mix- ed. Bob Gill, the head of the sailing club said that the money would be \llelpful\ and stated that they could compete in 8 to 10 meets this spring. Bob Hayes of thE ski team said that its appropriation would allow for competition in two or three meets or .about half of the club's original plan. Bob Eri- anne, president of th.e bowling club, welcoJUed the additional funds, but was much more grate- ful for a $20() gift fr()m houle- vard Bowl, owned by Dan Del- monico, which. allows the club to complete its desired schedule. Bill Porter, head of the rugby club, stated that he was very Contin11ed on Page 6 NCAA Amends \1.6\ Dictum Two important rule changes were approved by the NCAA as it met in convention in New York yesterday. Because of the closeness to press time, th.e full ramifications of these ffi()Ves will appear in next week•s Concord:y. Repre- senting Union at the conven- tion was Director of Athletics Wilford Ketz. The contr-oversial 1.6 rule of the NCAA has been amended by that group~s; annual C()nvention, hopefully resolving a question that threatened to split Ameri- can collegiate sports and which became a tl:lorn in the side of many Eastern colleges. The rule has been changed so that schools with higher than average ad- mission requirements are freed from the restriction of exclud· ing from intercollegiate competi- tion any students with less than a 1.6 grade point index. Schools with less demanding entrance requirments will still abide by the 1.6 rule. Many colleges, especially those in the East, favored some change from the former rule. They felt that tl1e NCAA or any other outsid~ gr()up had no right dictating academic policy. Union had inform~d the NCAA that it would not accept tlle former rule, and .tllereby was excluded from any post-season NCAA tournaments. The college's stand may be reviewed in the light of the rules change. · In another important change, the NCAA will now allow fresh- man to compete in all varsity sports exce);lt football and bas- ketball. This will relieve the burden of maintaining separate freshman and varsity squads. At present, llowever, Union does not plan t() abolish its frosh teams. Announcement There will be an organization- al meeting of all players inter- ested in Varsity or Freshman Lacrosse on Mondw, January 22, in the Social Sciences audi· torium. ·Matmen Romp~ 38-3; Alfred Invades Next ~y HENRY FEIN Hopes for another successf11l Garnet wrestling season contill• ued bright as the grappler~ opened the year with, a 38~3 crush of Hartford Tuesday. The frosh, depleted ·:by injuries J~nd' academic problems, lost to the Hawks hy 18-16, although the Garnet forfeited three matches: The home season will begin th.is Saturday as the squad meeis Alfred in the Alumni Gym at 1:00. Bill Munno opened things in style :ior the Garnet, pinning his man in the 123 class in on1y 1:55. Frank D' Antuono better' ed the pin time in the 130\s needing but 1:47 to end hcis match. The Garnet's only loss was suffered by Ron Iannotti in the 137 class, who went to de· feat 15-3. In the 145 grollp, Tom Tripp won by a .pin in 4:58, while Lee Frye pinned h:is 152 opponent in 5:39. In the 160 class, Ret Yelton won by ,a 9~2 mark. Naysim Simon won his 167 match by a pin in a swift 1:45. Ken Merz pinned his 177 Hartford foe in 5 :25; and Frank Fusick won by a pin in 5:47 over his heavyweigllt opponent. Ih an e:xhibiti()ll, Andy Blumenthal pinned his 191 foe in only 1:01. Frosh Fall In the frosh contest, .Al Denes of Albany Pharmacy opened by pinning his 131 Hartford opponent in 3:10. Bait Gale won his 145 match by .a 9-3 score. In the 152 class, Don Quigby pinned his foe in 6 :30. Don also hails from Albany Pharmacy. Steve French took his 160 match by 11-3. Tbe Garnet suffered its only co.n- tested loss in the heavyweiglit class, as Doug Werth lost by a narrow 12-10 count. Schedule • • To term athletic scheduli11g at Union this year as undesir- able would be a gross under- statement. It might be m()Ie accurate to call the schedulillg entirely lacking in thought. Ex- cellent examples of this problem are the slates of both the soccer and basketball teams. The varsity soccer team play- ed a ten-game schedule, consi~t­ ing of four home games and six away contests. The fr tn· home games were all schedu' Ed for midweek, almost ideal if one is attempting to relieve tile average student of the temota- tion of watching a game. After a six day layoff between t11e first and second games, tlle hooters played nine games in eighteen days, six on the road. The final two contests occurrEd. during Homecoming Weekend, as the team toured western New York, visiting Alfred and Ro- chester. The problems in the baskEt- ball schedule are considerably more acute, since the schedule is even less reasonable, and it occurs in a major sport. 01lr hoopsters play a schedule proba- bly unmatched in the W este:rn Hemisphere, facing twenty dif- ferent teams on twenty differ- ent nights. The home and ho01e series with R.P.I. and Hami!t()n have been discarded, and t:h~ Union Holiday Tournament h.as been resumed. These two ac- tions are equally distasteful, t.he former detracting much ·inter- est from these two old rival~ ries, and the latter putting t.he- cagers up for slaughter against. vastly better competition. Mr. Ketz, our Athletic Direc- tor, has put forth the rationale of repetitive results in support of doing away with home a11d home series. He apparently- feels that chances. are quite good for a sweep to occur wh-en the same two teams face ea<:ll other twice in one season. How- ever, our basketball team h.as not contributed much in tlle way of support to this hypothe- sis, having split three years consecutively with R.P.I., and the past two with Hamilton. The concept of a Christmas tournament seems to be equally- out of touch with the real world. Our trimester system forces us to cut off regular season colll- petition just as it begins, this year, Dec. 2. This forces t:lle hoopsters into a 24-day lay()ff,. followed by two days of prac- 'Jhe frosh squad recently ran into, unexpected difficulties that hne left the team with only a haJJdful of available wrestlers. :Fo11r grapplers were lost to academic difficl).lties, and two others . suffered major injuries. ln addition, two members <Jf the squad did not return t() the · team after the Christmas holi- da:v. Tllus Coach :Ron Coleman is left with only five men who ca:t:J' compete for the Garnet frosh. In the Hartford contest, the squad forfeited three weight classes. due to lack of manpow- er_ 'Jhe varsity has \as g()od a mHleus as last year's squad,\ an<l should do well again this seasO>n. Coach Coleman feels · this year's schedule will :pre- , sent. several additional pr()blems not faced by last year's. team. '·An easy opponent, Brooklyn · PO>ly, hasbeen dropped, but ha~: beEn replaced by a tough Dart moutll squad. Other teams that . look to be improved in 1968 are ICAC foes Alfred and St. Lawr-ence, both of whom are under new coaches. 'J!he Garnet's only loss last · ye~r was to parennially tough Colgate, and this year's meet will again be Union's hardest. Another possible trouble spot is · the upc<Jming meet with Oneon- ta, wbich follows the tradinonal R.:F.I. contest by only three da~s. Coach Coleman fears that his squad may suffer a \letdown\ after their contest ag~inst the Engineers, and may find themselves in difficulty 'against the strong Oneonta sql.lad. r.fhe Alfred meet, which will o?en the home season, was orig- inally scheduled for Saturday, Ja:nuary 20, but has since been moved up a week. What Goes? tice before hosting Hope, Le- high, and MIT. All three op- ponents show better r-ec()rds against tougher competition, and proceeded to hand the Gar- net three straight losses. Their respective schedules closed pre- to1lrnament action about two weeks later than Union because of academic scheduling. Our te.ain then takes two more weeks off before resuming C()mpeti- tioJl. If competition is neces- sa.Ty during vacation, it might be more feasible to enter the Capital City Tourney, along with R..P.I., Albany State, and Si~na. The competition W()Uld be more reasonable, and the rivalries more meaningful. r.lle above should be enough of an indictment against the powers that be in Union ath- le:ti'cs, but there is more. This se.JJson we have decided to fore- go bv() road trips, and instead gtve the basketball team an e;dended tot+r of th~ entire Nortlleast. In order, the team travels to Hartford, Middletown (Conn.), Alfred, Geneva, Am- herst, Hoboken, Troy, Middle- bwy- {Vt.), Hartford, and Roch- ester. Why not combine two of the Connecticut trips into one weekend? The same. C()Uld be done with Alfred and RQch- ester. This scheduling system has been used in the past here, and is presently in use at nearly all eompeting colleges and uni- vetsities. Six Saturday nights on tlle road should be avoided somehQw. The freshman basketball team gets a taste of what to expect in future years. They play a twetve game schedule, on:ly two of them at home. Their ten avvay games include tho~e same si:::!! Saturday nights. He>wever, tl::te :fros.h cagers do fare better tlun the freshman baseball team, which does not e~ist, sup- posedly for lack of a field. They also do not run into problems · sttch as playing on muddy quag- · mire called the freshman S()Ccer field:, and dropping the most hnportant lacrosse match of last reason for that reason. Granted, that some schedul- .in.g pr()blems are inescapable, and also granted that schedules are :made up years in advance. \V e rttay not see the ~llanges we hope for, b11t at least let us hope that the powers that l:>e ta:ke some consideration of the atllletes representing them. Baby Step Page4 N 0 ·~ 0 0 I I \ I 1=-- ~ ~~ > r r n ':/). ,.-... ._, ~ ~ ;;.. ~ ~ 1-3 1--4 a. r.n z ~ tr:1 00 ~ rn ~ 0 ~ ~ ,-., \\0 0 ._, ~ n ~ - ...: p..:: ._, .. > ~ rn. ~ ~ - ._, ~ cr.. ~ ::0 8 8 rn. r.r. UJ _. ~ r.r. t_:1:j ~ > ~ ~ > ~ (\';; ~ ~ r.n 00 ~~ 0 ·~ \C:: w~ 4:1:12: ~ ~~ ~ ... :r ~~.= • 00;.. ;at< =~ ~> ~~ ~ ~ 4-t tll~ ~· ~= ~~ ~ ~~ s:~ t;;~ -t:r' lo!l!l\C:: ~ tt ~ e o~ PFof torians\ at Niska: , Concerm i For The Vie1 Borr graduate He i National Phi Beta In 1! on the H or lectur Prof (1942), .. \Nature He I \The Ris (1962). Str To Congre Amsterdl fended Lewis B. student c gage in talks Tht In Oct• tion;s 4,1 defermer who inte after cri1 Ramsey • men, am eluding' Columbil ed this t in illegal Strattc individu: the inte1 should h deferme1 deferme1 granted· society. He rna activities interest • privilege regard 1 punative everyone Strattc lowing a 10 class J .., Stratton, term in' J 't Fo ) \ Severa campus have occ I II Acting S. Olton local pol effort to criminal~ One U of new reported package arriv~d. Severa ' forged si and the c one acce should b tification The Sc said de1 Wednesd dents ag: places ac

;1 • Double Jeapardy Page4 Vol. 97- No. 11 Founded at Union College 1877 SCHENECTADY, NEW 'YORK, THURSDAY,. JANUARY 18, 1968 No Conscience Page2 PRICE 15 CENTS Foreign Policy Collapse· e Outlined By Cont~nager Dr. Henry Steeie Commager reviewed the collapse of American foreign policy from 1945 to the Pr.esent before a full house of Union College students and faculty today at Memorial Cliapel. Dean of Historians Professor of history at Amherst College and \T~e Dean of Al!lerican His· torians\ Dr. Commager also will deliver a free pubhc lecture tomght at 7:30 at Niskayuna High School sponso11ed by Schenectady Area crergy and Laymen Concerned About Viet Nam. Campus Action Committee Organize's Advice Session For Conscientious Objectors ·By AL GARTNER 1 ' For the evening lecture, he has chosen the topic \Delusion and Illusion: The Viet Nam War.\ \'I'he essential problem is that in order to be a Conscientious Objector one must pe opposed to all war, not just the Vietnam War,\ idea of the Conscientious Objector- alternative to the draft. J \ I II Born in Pittsburgh, Fa., Prof. Commager did both his undergraduate and graduate work at the University of Chicago, obtaining the doctorate in 1928. He is a fellow of the Americall Scandinavian Soc1ety and a member of the National Academy of Arts and Letters, the American Historical Society, and Phi Beta Kappa. War Historian In 1943 Prof. Commager was a member of the U.S. War Dept. Commission on the History of the War. More recently, he has served as a visiting .professor or lecturer at many ·Of the fine universities of the world. . , , Prof. Commager iSI the author of \The Growth of the Amencan Republic (1942), \Freedom Loyafty, Dissent•• (1954), \The Era of Reform\ (1960), and \Nature and Problems of History\ (1965), as well as many other works. He has edited such books as \Documents of American History\ ( 1950), \The Rise of the American Nation\ (in progress), and \Conscience of 1 a Liberal\ (1962). These were the words of Union history professor.and successful World War II Conscientious Objector Wil- lialll Bristol in a television interview and draft counselling session for more than 100 students at Hale House student lounge Monday noon. TYVo Professors The \advice session\ sponsored by the Union Campus Action Committee, was primarily concerned with the Stratton Upholds Hershey's Directive To Revoke Student Defertnents Congressman Samuel S. Stratton, Amsterdam Democrat, strongly de- fended Selective Service Direct()r Lewis B. Hershey's bid to revoke the student deferments of those who en- gage in illegal anti-war activities, in talks Thursday. In October Hershey advised the na- tion;s 4,081 draft boards to remove deferments from students and others who interfere with the draft. Later, after ·criticism from Attorney General Ramsey Clark, Senators and Congress- men and many .leading educators in- cluding Yale's Kingman Brewster and Columbia's Grayson Kirk. he ammend- ed this to include only those engaged in illegal activities. No Interest Stratton maintained that when .an individual's actions \are no longer in the interests of the government\ :he should lose the privilege qf a student deferment. He considers the student deferment a privilege and not a right granted to students for the benefit of society. House Armed Services Committee, a former Lecturer in Philosophy and an ex-Mayor of Schenectady. In his lecture Stratton opposed Civil Disobedience on the grounds that laws are made to be obeyed and Congressman Samuel Stratton, as he discussed Freedom and Authority. other means exist to affect changes in society. He endorsed an 18 year old vote. Support Stratt()n, who returned from Viet- nam in December, also expressed his wholehearted support for the war in Vietnam. \What we are doing in Viet· nam is: preventing World War III. If this (war) will prevent a nuclear holocaust then it is worthwlule.\ He stated \We have demonstrated we will stop aggression before it be· gins (in Korea and Greece) and will do it again. Philosophic Stratton displayed his philosophic dexterity in attempting to evade the question of whether the state exists for the individual or the individual exists to serve the state. This is a question. he feels that eannot be an- swered in concrete terms because the answer lies between the two extremes. While the individual does not exist for the state, it each }lerson were to selectively disregard rules he does not believe in, the result would be anarchy. With Professors Willison, Foster, and Bristol giving counsel to those students who requested information and with mare than 25 different pam· phlets and folders (mostly from the Central Committee For Conscientious Objectors) explaining the anti-war al· ternatives, the session received film coverage from television stations WRGB and WAST. Forestry Work Organized by Ira J. Cohen, member of the Union Campus Action Com- mittee, the informal session was suc· cessful in attracting many students who wanted more information in this area. Answering many q:uestions was Professor Bristol; during World War II, he spent three and a half years in civiliaa forestry work as a Con- scientious Objector. Bristol stated that the present al- ternatives to fighting in the war are no different than those of the second world war. An individual may he a CO on two 'grounds: 1) Objecting to combat an<J killing or, 2) Objecting to any service which contributes to the success of the war. The individual can then accept civilian work as Pro- fessor Bristol did. The other alterna- tives to fighting include serving a jail sentence or fleeing to Canada. Local Board's Decision Bristol said, \the basic problem many college students must decide is whether or not they are Conscientious Objectors.\ Professor Bristol emphasized that achie.ving a CO status, especially on religious grounds, is not always so difficult to accomplish. Many times during World War II, philosophical and moral grounds would be consid- ered the local draft board's decision to defer a candidate. Sooner the Better Answering a question from Scott Sanders, a Union freshman (during the television interview), regarding the best time to declare oneself a Conscientious Objector, Bristol an· swered, \The sooner the better!\ Although an individual's status may be changed to CO at any time, Pro· fessor Bristol recommended not wait- He maintains that when a student's activities are no longer in the public interest he should not be granted the privilege of a deferment. \I don't regard the Selective Service as a punative obligation but an obligati()n everyone must assume.\ Stratton made these remarks £()!- lowing an address to the Comp. Ed. 10 class \Freedom and Authority.\ Stratton, who is serving his Fourth term in Congress, is a member of tlle Union To Host Summer lnstitu.te Forgeries Several cases of check forging en campus and in the local community have occurred in the last few days, Acting Dean of Students Charl:es S. Olton reported Wednesday. The local police have been alerted in an effort to apprehend the criminal or criminals. One Union student had a package of new checks stolen. The stude-nt reported that his bank sent him a package of checks, which never arriv~d. Several checks have appeared with forged signatures at downtown stores and the college has received one. Any one accepting a check from someone should be sure to get positive iden- tification of the endorser. The Schenectady Police Departtnent said detectives were investig!lting Wednesday morning. It cautioned stu· dents against leaving ~heck books in places accessible to thieves. In Science, Math, And History This summer Union College will again be the site of both a National Science Foundation Summer Institute in Science and Mathematics and an Institute for Advanced Study in His· tory. To be held for the third consecu- tive year, the institute in history will be under the direction of Dr. Man- fred Jonas, professor of history al!d director of the graduate program m American Studies at Union. Thirty-six junior high school social studies teachers from all part of the United States will assemble at Union for a six-week program of courses, workshops and colloquia dealing with American cultural history, 1776·1900, and its place in the school curriculum. Union will offer six credits toward a Master of Arts .degree in American Studies to persons successfully com- pleting the Institute. Union's institute will be one of 489 such programs established under T~tle XI of the National Defense Education Act to provide approxi~ately 18,000 elementary and secondarY, school teachers with the opportumty to im· prove their professional competence. It is financed by a grant from the U.S. Office of Education. Participants in last year's institute here came from 16 states and Puerto Rico. Deadline for application to the institute is March 17. The institute will be in session from June 24-Aug. 2. In addition to Prof. Jonas, the in- stitu.te faculty will consist of Dr. Frederick L. Bronner, John Bigelow Professor of history emeritus at Union and currently visiting professor of history at Wake Forest College; Dr. Carl A. Niemeyer, Thomas Lamont professor of ancient and modern lit· erature at Union; and Prof. David W Marcell director of the American Studies pro'gram at Skidmore College. Also,' Dr. Charles S. Olton, assistant professor of history and acting dean of students at Union; Dr. W. Dean Eckert, associate professor of art at Union; and Mrs. Phyllis L. Black, co- ordinator of junior high school social studies in the Niskayana Sckool Sys- tem. Prof. Benjamin W. Labaree of Wil· Iiams College will serve as an histor· ian·in-resideilce for one week i~ July. Held for the tenth consecutive year, the sdence and mathematics in· stitute will be under the direction of Robert W. Schaefer, associate pro· fessor of chemistry at Union. It will be in session from June 24 to Aug. 16. Federal funds will essentially pay for the institute ninety·six thousand dollars will be used for participant support while forty.five thousand will pay for instructors, materials, secre- taries, etc. Prof Schaefer said that more than 300 persons have attained the M~ster of Science for Teaching as a result of the Union institute. He added that participants have an opportunity to earn 10 credits in each institute and can earn their degree in three con- secutive summers. The institute is open to men and women wh'O already possess a bacca- laureate degree, have three years sec- ondary school teaching experience and who are active in the teaching of secondary school biology, chemistry, earth science, mathematics or physics. This year there are 55 new openings for at least 1200 applicants. Forty- five teachers are returning. Courses will be offered in the fields of geology, mathematics, physics, elec- tronics; biology and chemistry. Each student enrolls for two courses in the institute. Continued on Page 3 ing until one as already received his 1-A classification. Professor Bristol commented that he could easily relate such \advice sessions~· to World War II when many students were concerned about their religious, moral, and philosophical views being trampled on by being asked to fight. First Bids Matched By BllL COLUCCI The fraternity choices of 201 of Union's freshmen were matched with the choices of 16 fraternities in a hectic two-hour session in Hale House Wednesday afternoon. The first-round matching resulted in less than 50 per cent of the 425 members of the Class of 1971 signed to pledge next Thursday night. It was the first time in Union's recent his- tory that a frosh minority was match- ed first round. The percentage was 47.3. The matching of frosh bids with those of the fraternities ended the ten-week first phase of rushing and began the second rush. Bids will be turned in by both fraternities and unbid freshmen for the second time next Wednesday. Pledge night for all fraternities on campus is Thurs. day, Jan. 25. Normally about 25 rushees are as- signed houses during the week-long second rush which would make this year's total about 225, 20 above the total number pledged taken last year. The completion of the first bidding session marks the beginning of a period of no contact between fresh· men who have been matched and any fraternity other · than the ones with which they were paired. A formal Dorm Rush, however, will be conducted on Sunday and: Monday nights between 7 and 9 p.m.' During this period fraternities will canvass the dormitories and talk with prospective freshmen. Nick Dzebolo, chairman of the Inter-fraternity Coun- cil Rushing Committee, indicated that this year's dormitory rush will be especially strong as a result of the small number of frosh matched with certain fraternities. Dzebolo indicated that changes are imminent in the current IFC meal· card system. He said criticism of the present system was voiced by campus rushing chairmen who felt that the meal-card system was ineffective. One <:hairman called it \a fiasco.\ Continued mt Page 6 $500 AWARDED Richard Balagur, a junior Political Science major and former News Edi- tor of the Concordie:nsis has been selected to receive a $500 Newspaper Fund summer internship grant. This is the first time anyone from Union has received the grant. Balagur wilt be awarded the grant in September after completing at least ten weeks as a beginning reporter on a newspaper. This year 55 juniors who have expressed an interest in newspaper work as a career were awarded the grants. The Newspaper Fund provides the interns with the names of newspaper which are cooperating in the program. Students apply directly to these news- papers, which, in turn, make their own selection of summer interns. You)lg men attending liberal arts colleges, where little or no formal Journalism education is taught, are eligible for the internships. Since the first scholarships were awarded eight years ago, 687 .students have received $500 grants. Forty-Six re· ceived grants in 1967.

2 Memorial Chapel Repairs·Start: Floor, Lights To Be Renovated Reconstruction of the chancel floor in Memorial Chapel is expected to be completed within a month. When completed, the floor will be raised six inches to 36 inches in height and extended 14 feet to accommodate a 60- piece orchestra without the ad- dition of a temporary platform. Harold Usher, Union's physi- cal plant director, noted that the completed job will also in- clude increased lighting and sound facilities. Imbedded in the hardwood parque floor wiU be seven mi- crophone connections and 16 electrical outlets, Usher said. In the new sound system, a variety of speaker combinations may be used to provide maxi- mum sound reproduction to dif- ferent audience sizes. Six per- manent overhead spotlights will also be installed. Construction worlt was halted today and will cease Jan. 23 for college convocations. Both con- vocations involve individual lec- turers. Usher added that the chapel organ will be made movable with the installation of a 35- foot lead cable. Thus, he said, the organ may be moved to cen- ter stage for recitals. The pulpit and lecturn will become portable and a movable screen will be installed to cov- 'For three Generations.' Those Who Know ... Have been recommending - er the altar area when it is not being use. The chapel has been the site of major lectures and concerts at Union since its construction in 1925. The capacity is 1400. The reconstruction project is expected to ,cost about $20,000. Hanson Construction Corpora- tion of Schenectady is doing the structural work and Keeler Electric Company the electrical work IRCPrexy Michael Levin-Epstein was elected president of the Inter- national Relations Club at the meeting held Monday. A jun- ior political science major, he will serve through June 1968. He is a former Concordy sports editor. Other officers elected at the meeting were Gary Prevost, vice president; Philip Ball, sec- retary; and Dennis Myers, treasurer. Two committees were also named: Chairman of the con- stitutional committee is Bob Gi- ovanetti, and Prevost chairs the publicity committee. The club has an extensive schedule of activities planned Continued on Page 3 HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER \3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'' 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY \Well I told this recruiter from P P & L that I wanted more of a challenge than the electric utilities could give me ancl that's all I remember_\ Most of us at Pennsylvania Power & Light Com- pany aren't quite that violent about the mistaken image some students have of the electric utility business. We're too busy figuring out how to better serve nearly 800,000 customers spread over 10,000 square miles; how to economically transmit electric- ity at high voltages underground; how to make electric power the most reliable and versatile energy for mankind; how to computerize more and more elements of this, the world's most complex business. Fact is, the list of challenges in our business is almost endless and meeting them will provide you with a purposeful and financially rewarding career. Come in and talk to us. JANUARY 30 To register for an intet·view, or get more information, visit your placement office. ENGINEERING and I'JIATH: Design, Application, System Planning-EE- ME Technical Sales~EE- ME -IE Systems & Methods-Scientific-EE- Math. BUS. ADM. and LIB. Arts: Account1ng, Sales, Admin. Systems & Methods-Business MANAGING EDITOR TO SPEAK ON NORTH VlETNA·MESE TR~IP The New York Times' con- troversial assistant managing editor, Harrison Salisbury, will address a Union convo- cation at 8 p.m. Tuesday Jan. 23. His topic will be \Re- port from Hanoi.\ With the approval of the U. S. State Department, Sal- isbury spent part of Decem- ber 1966 and January 1967 in North Vietnam, the first American journalist to do so. His latest trip, to Moscow, took place in February 1967. Pulitzer Laureate Salisbury is winner of a recent George Polk Memor- ial A ward in journalism and the author of two new books, \Orbit in China\ and \Be· hind the Lines-Hanoi.\ He also won the Pulitzer Prize for excellence in foreign re- porting, in 1954. Born in Minneapolis in 1908, Salisbury is a 1930 graduate of the University of Minnesota. He first worked for United Press' Chicago bureau, at the end of the gangland era. First Assignment His first assignment in Russia was as head of UP's Moscow staff in 1944. That year he traveled 25,000' miles inside Russia and saw liber- ated cities and. the Red Army in action. Barred from Russi.a Salisbury joined the New York Times' staff in 1949 and soon returned to Russia as a correspondent, a post he held for five years. Soviet authorities objected to the prize-winning articles he wrote in this period and barred him from their coun- try for five years. The ban was lifted and Salisbury made several trips to Russia, his sixth trip re- sulting in a book, \A N e\V Russia,\ which views Rus- sian relationships with Red China. A NEW SERVICE SELLING DIRECT TO UNION MEN ••• STEREO SOUND COMPONENT MUSIC SYSTEMS VISIT OUR DEMONSTRATION STUDIO ACROSS THE STREET FROM CAMPUS FREE SYSTEM COUNSELING Substantial Discounts CALL FOR APPOINTMENT 374-5367 National Lead will be ON CAMPUS Tuesday, Jan. 23, 1968 Whether your interest is in Research and Development 1 Technical Production, Industrial Sales, Technical Service, or Accounting, it will pay you to talk with the man from National lead. With over 200 product lines made by 50 different divisions, affiliates and sub- sidiaries, National lead is one of the world's most diversified organizations. If you are career-minded we may have the spot for you. Remember ... National Lead Compa.ny Tuesday,Jan.23,1968 We're interested in candidates tot both Bachelors' and Masters' degrees. An Equal Opportunity Employer PENNSYLVANIA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY An equat opportumty employer Thursday, January 18, 1968 Thursda· ,, r( Foreign Students ,, . Form New Group More than 16 foreign and American students met la t Wednesday to launch a new campus organization called the International Students Associa- tion of Union College. !']ecretary, and Victor Hunger· \ bu'er. an ETH exchange stud- ent from Switzerland is treas- urer. A// Welcome La Ne The l began ii day nig over b: • Lance S Spallb o£ the , up his ~~ Judicial George special elected~ Local Organizations The ISA of Union College '• · 4 --- The association will be con- will welcome all students to its sidered local and will be af- membership regardless of their filiated with no other such nationality. The Executive group. The student's intend to Council plans to introduce a I) cooperate with other college or- program of activities including ga:p.izations in au .attempt to sports, social, and educational promote better understanding activities. The Council is at· and a more friendly relation- tempting. to elicit financial as- 11 ship among Union students, ac- sistance from the college for cording to Article II of the its program. newly drafted Constitution. With Professor Allen C. Rob- Ali Hamoudi, a senior engi- erts of the Modern Language ~ neering student from Iraq was d elected president, Mike Furan, Department as the group's a - a freshman engineering student viser, a meeting date of Friday, from Guatarnala was elected February 2nd has been set. ~~~~~==~~==~~~==~~~~~========~ . PEACE IS AN ACTIVE VERB Peace Corps Week On Campus Jan. 22-27 Library lobby Talk it over with 3 fo.rmer Volunteers II Sun ( In ad tentativ• faculty ciate pr ~ at Unio1 sociate biophys: R. Sow1 istry at Dr. P sistant 1 William rt. the sci High S< dore A mathem G. Gille at Unio Also, ( fessor < Kennetl ,, ~ Engineers & Scientists ., { RESERVE Friday, January 26 for an in-depth question and answer session with Xerox That's the date you can \brainstorm\ with our representative on your campus. Use this inter- view to find out whi'J.t's going on in ftJndamentl!!l and applied research, engineering, manufactur- ing, or programming at Xerox. Ask him how Xerox fits into the entire spectrum of graphic communications. Probe into the publish- ing aspects. Inquire about information storage and retrieval. Put your questions on a global basis and relate them to the knowledge explosion that's going on all over the world. And, don't be sur- prised if you begin to form some new ideas about Xerox. Xerox is that kind of company. If you want to be a little more specific, question him about LOX (Long Distance Xerography). Find out what it is today and what role it will play in tomorrow's integrated computer I communication networks. From this specific, you'll be able to realize the interplay of chemistry, optics, mathe- matical analysis and systems engineering in de- veloping new products. We're looking fcrward to meeting you: and answer- ing your questions. As well as posing some of our own. To arrange an appointment, see your Placement Directo.r. XEROX An\Equat Opportunity Employer (M/F) XEROX AND LOX ARE Rt::GISTERED TRADEMARKS OF XEROX CORPORATION I; t I, \' I li

18, 1968 Thursday, January• 18, 1968 ., rC Announcements ,, . Hunger- \ stud- is treas- College 11 · ents to its of their Executive a I) including is at- as- 11 ollege for C. Rob- Language I) ad- of Friday, set. ... ,, Lance Spallholz Elected New Dornl Council Head 4 The Union Inter-Residence Council began its Winter term session Tues- day night with a meeting presided over by newly elected president, • Lance Spallholz. Spallholz. now becomes a member of the ACC, but was forced to give up his voting position on the UIC ~· Judicial Board, which was filled by George Cushing as the result of a special election. Howard. Blank was· elected Secretary-treasurer unopposed. Su1nmer Institute Continued from Page 1 In addition to Prof. Schaefer, the tentative members of the institute faculty are Dr. Carl J. George, asso- ciate professor of biol9gical sciences ~ at Union; Dr. Francis L. L?mbert, as- sociate professor of physiology and The UIC is accepting reservations for putting up dates in North College for the weekend. of January 26-27. Students interested should sign up on the official list in the Student Ac- tivities office. The C()St will be $5 for the weekend. Other matters up for consideration in the near future are phones in West College, and the possibility of an en- tertainment weekend early in March. of physics at Union; and Dr. Charles D. Swartz, professor of physics at Union. Housing for participants in both institutes will be in the new dormi- tories with exception of those · com- muting from the surrounding area. IRC. • • The Student Council Community Relations Committee is now forming with the purpose of publicizing Union. Anyone interested in joining may con- tact Brian Izzo, 346-9959. A Peace Corps Campus Represen- tative who will be on the Union Cam- pus this week of Jan. 22, in an in- formation booth set up in the lobby of the library. Prospective candidates can fill out applications available at the booth and .sign up to take the 30-minute language aptitude test which wiU be offered at different times during the week. No foreign language is required; the test is in English. Peace Corps more than ever before is in need of persons who find them selves in need of an experience in which they can give of themselves and take of others of a totally differ- ent background than their own. -N.Y. Times, January 23, 8:00p.m.; Saul Alinsky, Civil Rights Leader, February 6, 8:00 p.m.; Allen Ginsberg, Poet, February 13, 11:30 a.m.; Found- er's Day, February 27, 11:30 a.m.; David Aaron, Professor ·Of English, Smith Cotlege; Harry Levin, Professor of Comparative Literature, Harvard; John Malcolm Brinnin, Poet, March 5, 11::30 a.m. William Wersten, assistant in phy- sics at Union College, has been named College Horologer by Dr. Harold C. Martin, president of the college. In the newly-created post, Wersten is officially in charge of the clock atop Union's Memorial Chapel. The title was granted to Wersten by the college's board of trustees in recog- nition of his more than a dozen years of volunteer service as keeper of tl}e college time piece. This past fall Wersten directed the repair of Union's chimes, also lo- cated atop the Chapel. The Chapel clock, Union's horologer said, is a mechanical one operated by weights which are lifted by an im- provised system of electrical motors. Peace Corps now has some 15,000 Volunteers serving in 56 countries in Latin America, Africa, the Middle East, and Asia. The majority of the Volunteers are BA or BS or BE de- gree holders. Business and science majors ar~ just as important as Eng- lish or History majors. biophysics at Union; and Dr. John Continued from Page 2 R. Sowa, assistant professor of hem- The Capital District Library Coun- istry at Union. for this term. Speakers include Jack --- cil for Reference and Research re- Fisher from Cornell speaking on ur- Dr. Frederick A. Klemm, professor sources has published its fifth index Dr. Philip R. Whitney, adjunct as- ban planning in socialist countries; of German and chairman of the De- of periodi()al(l found in six major sistant professor of geology at Union. Harold Graves, Jr., of the World partment of Modern Languages at libraries in the area plus Hamilton William E. McClennan, chairman of Union College, is the author of an College at Clinton. W; the science department at Linton Bank; Ronald Schneider from Colum- article which appeared in the Novem- Begun in 1962, cooperating libraries High School, Schenectady; Dr. Theo· bit, speaking on Brazil; and Arthur ber issue of \The German Quarterly.\ contributed re<'orrl., nf th~=>ir serials dore A. Bick, associate professor of Barber, formerly of the U.S. Defense The article is entitled \Gerhart ·,'lldings to a card file at Union Col- mathematics at Union; and Dr. Edwin Department speaking on his new book Hauhtmann and the Dedication of lege's Schaffer Library. Das Deutsche Museum.\ The J·ournal When data process1'ng equ1'pment G G'll tt f f th t' Twentieth Century Renaissance. · . · 1 e e, pro essor 0 ma ema Ics is published by the American Asso- became available, the records were at Union. ciation of Teachers of German. transferred to punch cards. The print- The club will also send delegates to out features of data processing made Also, Henry K. Holt, associate pro- a mock U.N. at St. Lawre:ace in Feb- The convocation schedule for the a listing in book form possible. ( fessor of mathematics at Union, Dr. ruary and to the China Conference at Winter term at Union follows: Harri- The first printed list contained 251 ::K::e~n::n.:::et=h=-· .::L::. . .::S.::ch::I::' c:::k::.., =a=ss:.::o.::c:.:ia::t.:.e ~p::.r.:::.o:.:fe::s::.so:.:r:....__.:.H::a:::.r..:..va::r:..:d::..::in::..::M::.a::r:..:c:::h::... _________ .:.so::.:n::.....:S::.:a::.:ll::. s...:.b...:.u:..:ry::...'::.......A...:.s...:.st..:.. _M_an_a..:g::.i_n:::.g_E_di_· t_o_r _.....:.p_.ages, with ~~!ries for 3,276 titl~s FERRO PHARMACY 575 Noll Street Schenectady, N. Y. The present edition lists 5,687 titles with additions and correction to June of this year. Libraries whose serials resources are listed are those of Albany Medical College, Albany College of Pharmacy, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Rus- sell Sage College, State University of New York at Albany, Union and Ham- ilton. Francis Ryll and Mrs. Kiyo Tomiy- asu of Union's Schaffer Library edited the current volume. The Capital District Council com- prises some 15 academic libraries, three federated groups of public li- braries and three other institutions with libraries. The council draws fi- nancial support from a state program for reference and research libraries. According to an article in the Wil- liams Record a Williams College stu- dent active in anti-war protests has been classifie·d 1-A by his local draft board. The student, who preferred to remain anonymous, said he found the reclassification notice together with an order to report for a physical examination when he returned home for Christmas vacation. Although the student is not sure that his reclassification came as a re- sult of Selective Service System Di- rector Lewis B. Hershey's October recommendation that local draft boards revoke deferments of students who interfer with on-campus military recruiting, he found when he visited his local draft board to appeal his classification that the board had a complete file on all his protest ac- tivities. \The clerk told me I had been re- classified, then told me where and when I had protested, but she would not make any connection between the two,\ the student said. RELAX! PLAY BILLIARDS AT Jay Billiard Lounge ., { FR 7-05.10 our of as is sur- yin to de- our ION I; ~ ., I, \' I li We've added new dimensions to the pilot's view You can do the same for your career at Norden The extraordinary precision of Norden's advanced radar system has brought about safe lower-than-ever flight for military aircraft using Norden's unique phase interferometry technique. A three dimensional display, oriented to the real world, gives the pilot a near equivalent to a clear weather windshield view. Contour map displays are available for both pilot and navigator. If it's an advanced concept in radar, pilot displays, telecommun.ications, ground support equipment, pre- cision components and computer techniques, Norden engineers are pioneering it. Applications run the gamut of advanced underwater, shipboard, aircraft and space vehicle systems as well as ground support complexes. With Norden, you can gain broad exposure to tech- nical aspects of a problem through our method of assigning projects to problem-solving teams. Our cor- porate-financed Graduate Education Program provides qualified engineers ample opportunity to continue kr mal education at nearby academic institutions. Norden's ideal location, in Fairfield County, Con- necticut offers an environment for living that's second to none-a rare combination of cultural and sports activity the year 'round and only 41 miles from the heart of New York City. There are openings in Research, Development and Manufacturing. Electrical Engineers, Mechanical Engi- neers, and Physicists graduating in 1968 are invited to contact your College Placement Officer to arrange an on-campus interview. Or forward your resume to Mr. James E. Fitzgerald, Technical Employment Man- ager, at Helen Street, Norwalk, Connecticut 06852 An Equal Opportunity Employer (M/F). FOUNTAIN SERVICE One block from Brownell Gate 167 Jay Street SPECIAL RATES For Union Men LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian • American Food 1125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady Dl 6\9744 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar UNION BOOK COMPANY 237a241 STATE STREET Books ••• Paperback Classics Party Favors ••• Art Supplies --- .. :--- OHice Supplies REALE'S For the finest in cameras and stereo fidelity featuring Nikon, Hasselblad, Leica, AR Speakers, Sony Recorders 1957 Foster Ave. FR 2-4446 RITZ REST AU RANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featuring - HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS. CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & large Parties Pizza & Sandwiches at All Hours Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open Daily 11 A.M. to 3 A.M. 3

4 l:'utJilshed Thursdays during the scnom year by the Student Body of Union · ColleJ;\e Schenectady, N. Y. National Advertising Representative: National Advertising Service, Inc.. Collell'e Publtshers Representative, 420 Madl· Editorial Office, Old Gym, Union Col· le!l'e. Publication Office, Schenectady Printing Company, 502 Broadway. Entered in the Schenectady Post Of· fice as Second Class Mail Mato!et·. Subscription 15c a copy; $3· a. year : delivered anywhere In the llnited States. · san· Ave .. N. Y. C. SENIOR BOARH Hlf'I!.\H!J K I'AT'TI·;H~uS. JH. ·~11 ...... 340·8614.. . ...... Builur·in-Chief Jogr. IH\BE:'\7..\IIL 'tis 37.7-9430. Business :llanager · ;'\gJr. H. KRAIIII<;H '70 .... :!4G-8614.... . ... ~Ianaging Edi'tor JEFI•' llRUW:'\1~ '69 ...................... 34G-9U73 ................. News Editor GARY PHEVOS'l' '6U .. 393-7841.. ............................ Sports Editor STEVE FOX ·~·0 .... . ............ FPatures Editor RICHARD BALAGt'R '69 .. ......... . .. ..... ExPcutive Editor C'LH'r' ~ .. U'A:'\F. 'r.~ Arts Editor Jt::O.IOR ROAI'.H D. Pete•· Drotman '69 .... ...... ........ ..... .... .. ... Assistant Business Manager Dick Daniel '-70 ................................................................................ Photography Editor LPn Simon '70 .... As~odate Sports ·Editor Mike Swirsky '.70 ;o.;ational Advertising Manager Stephen Littman '70 ................................................................ Subscription Manager Carl Goldsand '70 .......................................................................... Circulation Manager Hlchard Lewis ·s~ . . ... L.oeal Advertising ~1anager Larry Rothbloom '70 ..................................................................... Distribution Manager l...Pn 1.;:a~;1 n 'fl!l Fl'atPrntiPs:; Erlitnr STAI•\F 1\IIUJBI.;RS NEWS: Paul F'<Hnham, Ste\\e Wall, Bill Ouzer, Howie :lliller. AI Gartner. StfVP Cole, Handy Hutter, Ha.] Hos:-1. Bill CulUt.Ti. SPORTS: Henry Fein. Dan Angelo. Jay Blltzman. I•\EATl'RES: Paul Andrews, AI CohPn, Harry !\Iiller. Pete Welngolu. Bl'SINESS: Denis l\lyers, Don Kessler, J\ff Birn, Roy Kadln, Jf>rry Levine. Double Jeopardy Since General Hershey's directive to local Selective Service boards recommending the reclassification of those who engage in illegal activity while protesting the war or the draft, students have rightly been angry and frightened. Stich an order is obviously an attempt by Hershey to use the threat of military service to suppress the exercise of the right to dissent. Deferments, according to Hershey, are granted in the national interest (whatever that may be), and because illegal protest is not in the national interest (as defined by Mr. Hershey), deferments of those engaged in such activity should be revoked. So far, no student at Union has felt it necessary to carry his protest to illegal means, and this is indeed encour- aging. Should a student feel compelled to do this, however, in the present situation, he risks not only civil court action, but also loss of his military deferment and subsequent induction. In effect, he may be punished twice: once through the due process of law, and once through the undue process of General Hershey (who may indeed believe he is the law, or even the constitution). There are civil laws which the college and the city may invoke to punish illegal activity on campus. We hope that future protests at this college will not degenerate into violence and unlawful acts, but if they do, criminal procedure, as provided by law, should be initiated against those involved. The Law must be upheld. At the same time, the college or university which sees part of its task as promoting the welfare of society while guarding its very foundation, can ill afford to ignore attacks on constitutional freedom such as General Hershey has made. Specifically, it cannot condone within its walls a system which turns the Selective Service from an instru- ment for supplying the manpower for war into a punitive device that threatens freedom in an already dangerous time, reaping double punishment on those who elect to dissent from it. We do not ask that military recruiters be banned from campus. They serve a legitimate function in offering career options to interested students. They do have a right to be here, however distasteful their presence to a few students. Nevertheless, military recruiters should be allowed on campus only if, as at Columbia, they give assurances that no matter what type of reception greets them, students en- gaging in illegal activity will not be reported to draft boards. Concordiensis asks that the college take a firm and clear position on this issue immediately. Students deserve to know exactly where the college stands on this important question. The presence or absence of military recruiters on campus is, in itself, of minor importance. The threat to individual freedom and justice under the present circum- stances, is of a much greater magnitude. Crinte Current The recent discovery that Union men have been in- volved in stealing and forging checks presents an occasion for sadness and shame. It seems that there is an almost steady undercurrent Of petty crime perpetrated in the community and originating from within the college. Every couple of months it breaks to the surface and properly shocks everyone. Aside from the criminal implications of such acts, they are symptoms of a regrettable lack of pride in one's self and one's college. We contribute nothing to our education, the college, or the community by being petty criminals and dragging the name of Union into court. We might bet- ter spend our time rebuilding the ~ind of self-respect that will not allaw itself to be shattered by such disdainful activity. 1 Letters Oh, Well To the Editor,: Concordy's attempt at editor- ial comment in the \Classified Ads\ of the last issue crossed the boundary from mean- ingful criticism to pointless sarcasm. In my estimation the new editorial board showed a surprising lack of good judg- ment in allowing the issues con- sidered to be put in such so- phomoric terms. Such reckless commentary has no place in re- sponsible joumalism and can bring nothing hut discredit and censure to the editors who al- lowed it to be printed. John C. Morey, '68 Part of the responsibility of Concordiensis is to provide a forum for the e:x:pression of the opinions of any person. Al- though we do not particularly agree with. all that was implied last week, we believe that it was presented in the best man- ner available to us. The Editors Injudicial Process? To the Editor: We feel that the revised pro- cedure for the election of Con- cordiensis editor-in-chief as ap- proved by the Student Council is lacking in a very basic as- pect. This shortcoming is the exclusion of certain members of the newspaper staff from voting for the editorship, which is the only elective position on the staff. By depriving the business staff of its vote the revised rules have silenced any voice members of tbat staff may have had in the management of the newspaper. It appears that the business staff is at the wrong end of a one-way street. They cannot vote for the editor, but the editor appoints the business manager, to whom they are di- rectly responsible. They are vital to the newspaper's produc- tion, but have no say in its management. We see two ways to rectify this situation: either re-enfranchise the business staff, or allow it to select its own business manager. Under the present system the editor appoints the managers of the four staffs, news, fea- tures, sports, and business. Only members of the first three staffs elect the editor. We must note that the business staff does not desire a voice in editorial pol- icy, which is the responsibility of the editor: It merely wants and deserves to share equally with the other staffs the man- agement of Concordiensis. Siuerely, D. Feter Drotman '69 Joel Rubenzahl '68 Mike Swirsky '70 Ste\e Littman '70 Rich Lewis '70 Roy Karlin '71 Jerry Levine '71 IN TIWDUCJNG by~~ A beautiful pin with a birthstone for each member of tne family. She will cherish it forever. ForOnl~· $12•50 TIME CENTER }ewe fer• 428 STATE STREET SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK PHONE FR 4-01113 Thursday, January 18, 1968 A Little More Happiness It's quite a long walk - about a mile both ways - but you do it. 'fwice, maybe three timc:s each week you travel the dirty Schenectady streets to an old elementary school. You walk up the stairs through the crowds of four-footers. You reach the classroom and inter- rupt the teacher to ask if Bobby can be excused. You are a Big Brother. You first heard of the Big Brother program through the Campus Action Committee~ It's program of social work in which Union College partici- pates. Your little brother is Bobby, an eleven-year-old sixth grader, who 'has been doin~ lit- tle or no work in school all year and who has been getting into fights with classmates and his twelve-year-old brother. 'Ihe social worker at his school tells you that his attitude appears to be one of hopelessness. Quiet ancl Afraid Bobby is a little fellow Who doesn't speak much, especially to you. He ·seems to be afraid of you. Sometimes, he says he has a doctor's appointment in- stead of going with you, but you tend to doubt it. You wallr with Bobby over to a neal'by howling alley. You talk about different subjects, but he doesn't respond. You bowl, he bowls. You try to help him control the ball better. Afterwards, you buy some soda and candy for him. He appreciates it, but is too shy to thank yo.u. You just cannot seem to get through to him, and it makes you feel like giving up. Only in Magazines You walk him home. As you turn down the street where he Gershon's Sandwiches Cold Cuts Salads Open Tues. Sun. 8 A.M. to 9 P.M. Ph: EX 3-()617 1600 Union St. DICK WAY BSME, Lafayette, joined the staff of our $50-million research laboratories after entering the 1963 Bethlehem Loop Course. One of his important assignments is investigating methods of improving the performance of rolling mill automatic gage-control systems. Dick is working on an advanced degree under Bethlehem's Educational Assistance Program. MANAGEMENT MINDED? Career prospects are better than ever at Bethlehem Steel. We need on-the-ball engineering, technical, and libetal arts graduates for the 1968 Loop Cou.rse. Pick up a copy of our booklet at your placement office. An Equal Opportunity Employer in the Plans for Progress Program BETHLEHEM sTEEL pETH ~HEt.t ST EL \By SMYTHE SETON·\V ATSON\ lives, you tealizE yotl've seen these kind of ·houses on~y in magazines or from a distance while driving 011 a highway. Yet, here you are - walkin..:5 into one. It's a two,family house. His family lives on the second floor. · You meet Bobby's mother who is doing housework Ycu see his father, a Korean War veteran who cannot work due to a chronic injury received dur- ing the war, lying on a couch in the next r()Olll. The only money coming into the house is his veterans' compensation. Bobby's mother cannot work because she has four children ranging between the ages of three and twelve. Bleak Fvture When you speak to her, you realize that things are difficult. There really is not enough money to· make ends meet, but she tries. he also tries to keep up the spirit in her home. - Suddenly, you understand a little more about Bobby. His life is one of tmubles followed ;by troubles. liis future is bleak, and he may be forced t0 quit school and get a job while others his age are applying b college. You lose money and a nurnber of hours when you could be doing schoolwork You gain little-only some satisfaction that what you're doing is good, ») and some happiness. But there's so n: uch time and money around you; we could use a bit more happiness all around. ··) Anyone interested in learnjng rr.ore about the Big Brother program should contact Mrs. Reed at the Upward Bound ., Office in Bailey Hall. SCHENEC'l'ADY Colony~\The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly\ Sat. Matinee-\Goliath and the Sins of Babylon\ Pructor's-\Valley of the Dolls\ State-\The Biggest Bundle of the All\ \Hot Rod to Hell\ Scotia Art Theater-\Taming of the Shrew\ AL]JANY Hellman's-''Gone Wind\ With the ., ~) ~~ . ~~ Change the World SARATOGA So, you tell Eobby that you'~l Cafe Lena-Frank Wakefield see him next Monday. During and the Greenbriar Boys with 1!1 the long walk back:, you realize Blue Grass music that you alone can't change the world, or even B~bby's little D'andreas-Sour Hour, Fri. 4:30 world. You just have to try to to 6:00 IJJ help him see the 'bright side of Rip Van Dam-Sour Hour, Fri. life. 6:00 to 9:00 ,~-====-====- ====- ====- ====-~~) I i I Sale ENTIRE STOCK \' ., .. 10<1o to SO<fo REDUCTIONS ~ ,., Ope11 Daily Nine Thirty A.M. to Six P.M. ~ Thursday and Friday to Nine P.M. ... ~ 1 . • 'i ~ 7 -. .. - - \? -£1 a IE au u - • • By. An inJ ~ ing on and Mili held las1 Wells ~ 40 Unio radio, 'I porters ; pr.esent f< sored b: Committ for the Army oJ Cuneo, J G Washing Lieute fing on l the disc 4i the Stat termed about th America more, • America the pres• \due der did not • tions. \ Follo>1 postulati imately general or lack how he 11 ment ir Cuneo co pipe an< me say mentis (I these m don't lil ment tl means 1 .: place it. When vidual States' t Cuneo c< pipe an( me say 1 .. • 'i Ta su tt lar ... Out ing It ; wit \ car rec a r eqt It km PO\ de~ lnt, ~ dO( the stu ·~ Col yoL in gin • shi me As I her . ... wit t Me Ele Ma lnd Sy~ .. He' cu~ ' ~ NEWfC

18, 1968 Thursday, January 18, 1968 5 (I • • • A H N ., c . ~' rmy . as · 'o · · ~onsc1ence. Union. Music Scene Perks?· College Coffeehouse Opens a number could be gain is good, \) there's around bit more learnjng Brother Mrs. Bound ., ~' q} the Bad, and \ ~~ Dolls\ of ~) ~~ the ~~ with 1!1 Fri. 4:30 Fri. IIJ ~~ By PAUL ANDREWS An informal discussion focus- ll ing ·on \The War in Vietnam and Military Conscription,\ was held last M()nday afternoon in Wells House. Ap:prox:imately ~ 40 Union G()llege students, six radio., TV and newspaper re- porters and a c1,1mpus cop were pr.esent at tne disctlssion spon- ~ sored by tlte Campus Action Committee. Featur-ed speaker for the discrussion was U. S. Army office1 2nd Lt. Kenneth Cuneo, flown in directly from ' Washington for tb.e event. Lieutenant Cuneo, coolly puf- fing on his Army pipe, prefaced the discussion by noting that ~ the State Department, as he termed it, ds.nows a lot more a]Jout the wa:r than the Average American Citizen. A.nd further- more, he noted, Average • American Citi2ens could replace the present government through \due democratic process\ if they did not fully appreciate its ac- • tions. fi II t: t War Justification Following the lietttenant's ex- postulations, a period of approx- imately ao minutes was held for general questions and answers, or lack the1eof. When asked how he justified U.S. involve- ment in Vietnam, Lieutenant Cuneo coolly puffed on his Army pipe and said, \Onee again, let me say that the State Depart- ment is more qualified to judge these mattefs, and that if you don't like the present govern- ment there are constitutional means by which you can rP.- place it .. \ When asked if he as an indi- vidual supp<lrted the United States' war effort, Lieutenant Cuneo coolly paffed on his Army pipe and said, \Onc:e again, let me say that the State Depart- ment is more qualified to judge these matters, and if you don't like the present government there are Constitutional means by which you can replace it, and here we are back to the same old thing again.\ 'l'he audience paused to ·re- flect. Yes, it was true. They were indeed back to the same old thing again. Enlightenment There was never ,a dull rno- ment as questions and answers ranging from topics conce:rning anti-personnel weapons to ihe voting age continued' to be rais· ed from the floor.. Reporters milled around among the audi- ence, eliciting neV!S'Worthy com- ments from the individuals in attendance. Television stati()ns fllmed interviews. The cam:pus co,p stood there. The highlight ofthe question· and-answer period came when Lieutenant Cuneo w.as asked if he believed the United States Army could morall:y justify in· discriminate bombing of N()rth Vietnam. \The A.rmy doesn't have a conscience,\ Lieutenant Cuneo replied, c1>olly puffing: on his Army pipe, ''it is made up of individuals.\ A general sigh of ·enlightened relief arose fFom ,the audience. Those on top of the issues know that up until DI>'W it had ·been thought that the Army actually did have a conscience. Wonderful Time After the question-and-answer period, the audience broke up into small disgusted groups and debated the issues. Ran!lom comments led one to believe that the group was largely par- tisan against the war. By 1:30 many of the stttdents were departing :for classes. Thursday, January 18, explore an • • engineering career ~· i on earth's l I • -£1 last frontier. Talk with Newport News On-Campus Career Con- sultant abollt engineering openings at world's largest shipbuilding company-where your future is as big as today's brand new ocean. Our half-a-biliion-dollar backlog of orders means high start- ing salary, career security, with your way up wide open. It also means scope for all your abilities. We're i nvolvecl with nuclear ship propulsion and refueling, nuclear aircraft carrier and submarine building, marine automatio11. We've recently completed a vast oceanographic ore survey. We're a major builder of giant water power and heavy i11dustrial equipment. We're starting to apply our nautical nuclear know·how to the fast expanding field of nuclear electric power generation. We're completing competitive systems designs for tile Navy's $1 billion plus LHA fleet concept. Interested in an advanced degree or research? We're next door to Virginia Associated Research Center with one of the world's largest synchrocyclotrons, offering advanced study itt high energy physics. We're close to Old Dominion College attd University of Virginia Extension Division, where you can get credits for a master's degree, or take courses in Microwave Theory, Solid State Electronics, Nuclear En- gineering and other advanced subjects. Ask about scholar- ships, tuition grants, study and research leaves to imple- ment these opportunities. Ask, too, ab()ut the pleasant living and lower li\iing costs. here in the heart of Virginia's historic seaside vacation land. with superb beaches, golf, fishing, boating, hunting. IMMEDIATE ENGINEERING CAREER OPEN.INClS Mechanical Engineers Electrical Engineers Marine Engineers Industrial Engineers Systems Analysts Naval Architects Nuclear Engineers Civil Engineers Metallurgical Engineers See our representative B. L. Skeens Thursday, January 18 He'll be at the Placement Office to answer questions, dis- cuss qu.alifications, take applications for fast actiofl. NEWPORT NEI'rS SHIPBUILDING AND DRY DOCK COMPANY. NEWPORT NEWS, VIRGINIA An Equal Opportunity Employer. Some of the group stayed to continue que-stioning Lieu- tenant Cuneo. Reporters began packing their equipment. The campus cop hlin[(ed his eyes. All in all, a wonderful time was had by aU, even though re· freshments were not served. FRIDA:Y, JAN. 19: Fi'lm Series, \Diary of a Country Priest,\ 7:00 and 9:00 p.m .. S.S. 016. Coffee House, Cliff Sofane Jazz Trio, AI Ziegler and' <:arl Rosenstock (fol~ mt.Jsic), 8:30 p.m.~ :B-ronner House. SATURDAY, JAN. 20: Freshmen Swimming vs. Hobart, 2:00 p;m ., Gym. freshman Swimming vs. Hobert., 2:00 p.m., Gym. Varsity Swimming vs. ·Hobart, 2:45 p.m., Gym. MONDAY, JAN. 22-FRIDAY, JAN. 26: Peace Corps Recruiter, Library lobby. MONDAY, JAN. 22: St.,dent Council, 7:30 p.m., ·Hale :House Student lounge. TUESDAY, JAN; 23: ·Convocation, Harrison Salisbury, Assistant Managing Editor- New York Times, 1 '.Report from Hanoi,\ 8:00 p.m., Memorial ·Chapel. Freshman Basketball· vs. Williams, 6: I 5 p.m., Field House. Varsity Basketball vs. Williams, 8:00 p.m., Field House. WEDNESDAY, JAN. 24: Freshman and Varsity Wrestling vs. Dartmouth. 2:00 p.m. THURSDAY, JAN. 25: All-College Council, 7:30 p.m., Hale House Student Lounge. SATURDAY, JAIII. 27: Varsity and Freshman Wrestling ..,s. Hobart, 2:00 p.m. SUNDA:Y, JAN, 28: American Film Academy, ''You Can't Chect· an Honest Man,'' starring W. C. Fields and Edgar Bergen, 7:00 and 9:00 p.m., S.S. 016. Arts-oriented programming at Union has recently witnessed unprecedented popularity: the Film Workshop presentations invariably fill ihe Social Sci- ences audit0riurn, the Mounte- banks one-act .plays were greet- ed with sell-out audiences, and the growth of the Jazz Workshop and Moving Finger coupled with the recent revival of The Idol points toward the fact that Un- ion students are eager to re- spond to prese11tations in the creative arts. One thing, however, which has been sorely missing from the Union arts-entertainment agenda has been a coffeehouse: something which is almost tak- en for granted on most college campuses. Now the situation has. finally be~m remedied with the opening of the \North End,\ an on-campus coffeehouse locat. ed in Bronner House, at the north end of North College. Academic Discussion As is often the case at Union, there was much academic dis- cussion about :a campus. coffee- house before anyone got around to doing ans.thing about es- tablishing one. In this case it was Jim Talbert and Cliff Safane, botb. juniors, who finally initiated action on the coffeehouse. Their efforts paid off: last Tuesday the proj. .ect was officiaUy approved by the stellar SkelJar Board. Tomorrow night the \North End\ will feature the Cliff Safane Jazz Tri() with Al Zieg- ler and Carl Rosenstock per- forming folk music. Also on display will be a photography exhibit by Wayne Darling. E)(pansion Forecast \The main emphasis in pl'O- ·gramming win be jazz and folk music,\ Talbert said in a Con- cordiensis interview, but he said that performance scheduling would eventually be expanded to include poetry reading and \almost any form of the per- forming arts which could fit into our concern.\ Talbert noted that there was \nothing definite\ as far as pro- gramming and performance scheduling was concerned. \This is something we've never tried before, so there's a lot of room for growth and change,., he said. He also said that if the coffeehouse was successful it could conceivably be kept open three nights a week, allowing students to occasionally relax from the rigors of their aca- demic pursuits. Olton's Approval Talbert said that the coffee- house has received \a g:reat deal of encouragement\ from Dean of Students Charles S. Olton, who initially approved the proj- ect. He also said that plans were .being made to establish. the cofeehouse as an official student activity: \It is our hope that within the next month we can present a charter to the Student Council for ratification,\ he said. Safane, who is scheduled to perform with his Jazz Trio to· morrow night in the coffeehpuse, said that while performers will for the most part be Union students, he hopes to \get some outside entertainment from oth- er schools and local outlets.\ Safane also pointed out that \any profits we make go right back into the coffeehouse\ for decoration and maintenance pur- poses. He said that performers may eventually be paid. \Best We Could Do\ Safane said that the coffee- house, located in the northeast corner of the first floor of the Bronner House, was not acous- tically perfect, but that it was \the best we could do for right now.\ He said that rival noise from the popular \Freshman Center\ would not conflict with the performers. However, }le predicted that as the coffee- house gained a greater follow- ing, its location would have to be moved to larger quarters. Eventually we'll have to ex- pand,\ he said. The coffeehouse will be open from 8:30p.m. to 1:00 a.m. The Maintenance Dept. has pro- vided two dozen chairs for in- formal seating; candles and small tables round out furnish- ings. The coffeehouse will be open to anyone, with an admis- sion donation of fifty cents per person or eighty cents per cou- ple; coffee, tea and soda will be available for refreshments. Why should you confide in a guy you've never met before? Because the guy we'r~ talking about is a college recruiter from Alcoa. And the only way to play it is honestly. He'll be on campus in a couple of days. And here's what we recom- mend you do at the interview. First, lay your cards on the table. 1ell him what kind of work would really turn you on. So make it a point to meet Alcoa's recruiter. He's a confidence man you· can really trust. Interview date: 1hen, sit back and listen while he explains how your plans figure into Alcoa's plans. (You'll be surprised how versatile Alllminum Company of. America can be.) Change for the better with Alcoa TUESDAY, JANUARY 30 An Eq~al Opportunity Employer A Plans for Progress Company riJALCCJA

6 Pledging Continued from Page 1 Union GOP Prepares For Election . Union CoHege Republicans under the leadership of Gerry Grau are already preparing for the national election next fall. The group has held several meet- ings to review campaign tech- niques, to organize a member- ship drive, and to plan activities for the remainder of the year. More than 25 students attend- ed the most recent of these meetings Tuesday evening. Singers Present Work By Mozart The chief complaint was that freshmen frequently did not at- tend their assigned meals, a practice which burdened the fraternities with the expense of preparing large unattended meals. Dzebolo said he was un- certain what the change for the next rushing season would en- tail, adding that it will be dis- cussed at an IFC meeting in the near future. Phi Ep Leads Phi Epsilon Pi, whose dining facilities were expanded during the summer, matched the lar-gest number of freshmen 31, in Wed- nesday's first of two bid-match- ing sessions. NCAA Elects €ontinued from Page 7 At the business meeting the group voted to sell \stock\ cer- tificates in the future of the Republican Party, a gimmick im- ported from Colorado. The Re- publicans have raised several thousands of dollars by selling the bond certificates to senior party members at one dollar Ketz was named to the highest per share. body in the NCAA, its executive Union's Glee Club will join that of Marymount 'College, Tar- rytown, N. Y., for a presentation of Mozart's \Grand Mass in C Minor\ at 8:30 p.m. Saturday, Jan. 27, at Union's l\i[emorial Chapel. The Mozart composition is considered to be one of the greatest liturgical composition of all time. L board. This makes him the Several activities are planned unofficial. \spokesman\ of the for the next month. This week- country's small colleges on the end, at. the State Executive Hugh Allen Wilson, Associate national board. Ketz thus will Board Meeting, Union will ba Professor of Music at Union, move from his post as chair- r-epresented by a sizeable dele- will conduct the concert. Wolf- man of the NCAA District H gation. The plans inc:ude a free gang Scanzer, director of the college committee, which will beer party Friday night open Marymount Glee Club, will con- be taken by David Bussey of to all Republicans. duct the same program Feb. 3, Lycoming. The primary topic of discu .,_ at Tarrytown. Prof. Schanzer sion at the .meetings on Satur- is chairman of Marymount's De- Also at the convention, Ia- day and Sunday will be the partment of Music. crosse coach R. Bruce Allison April convention where the was named to the NCAA na- state federation elects new of- Four so~oists will be featured tiona! lacrosse rules committee. ficers. in both presentations. David The post takes on added sig- Lloyd, tenor, and Obert Ter- nificance because the rules com- The club hopes to send sev- mine, baritone, are members of ml 'ttee w1'll probably be plan the Lake George Opera.. Lloyd · · · · - era! members to the Mock Nom- ning and co-ordinating a na- is opera director. · Gloria Sca- The number of frosh matched tiona! lacrosse championship. ination Convention sponsored by rano, soprano, is a senior at with the other campus fratern- Williams College scheduled for Maryrr_ount and Carolyn Smith. ities are: Alpha Delta Phi, 12; At present, Union has in- the week of Feb. 2 2 . The event mezzo soprano, is a member of h · Ch · · formed the NCAA that it can- the Marymount faculty. Beta T eta P1, 23; 1 Psi, 14; not abide by the 1. 6 rule as it will be highly controversial Delta Chi, 11; Delta Phi, 13; stood before the recent change_ with liberals, moderates, and Musical accompaniment at Delta Upsilon, 17; Kappa Alpha, Mr. Ketz is preparing a detail- conservatives supporting differ- the Union concert will be pro- 6; Phi Delta Theta, 6; Phi Ep- ed report which he will present ent candidates. vided by the Northeastern New silon Pi, 31; Phi Gamma Delta, to the Faculty Athletic Com- York Philharmonia and mem- 8; Phi Sigma Delta, 17 ; Phi mittee in the near future. Once Another event at the end of bers of the Albany Symphony that gr()up re-evaluates the col- b . h Orchestra. Edgar Curtis, Pro- Sigma Kappa, 7; Psi Upsilon, lege's position, President Mar- Fe ruary Is t e Young Republi- fessor of Music and chairman Julius Hegyi is musical d:redor of the Albany Symphony_ Both glc:!e clubs hm·e b!:cn practicing since September :>~r! have just begun joint rehearsal. Hugh Allel'l Wilson conducts a recent rehECtrsal of the GleE Club. 8; Sigma Chi, 11; Sigma Phi, 9; tin will officially reveal Union's can National Leadership Con- of Union's Department of the and Theta Delta Chi, 8. position on the matter. ference in Washington, D. C. Arts, directs the Philarmonic. ;======~===~=========-~ ---·- - _____ ______:. ____ __:____ ________ ~----~--- Serving Union For 34 Years SILVER DINER of Schenectady ERIE BOULEVARD 6 A.M. - 11 P.M. 346-9522 Excellent Food and Informal Atmosphere Some years ago, the Student Senate introduced a resolution recommending 135 ERIE BOULEY ARD lou leva rd Bowl I . : ' . I 32 AMF Bowling Lanes ·1 Open 8 A.M. to 3 A.M. SNACK BAR ON PREMISES Let the lager freely flow. Down to Louis', let us go, A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large pa.rfies accommodated in our RATHSK£LLER For reservations phone FR 4-8917 THE PEANUT STORE that the only liquid refreshment on campus be Genesee Beer. The students have been putting it down ever since. Train for six months. GE'N, 9R£W CO RC~ H N And we'll give you about $2 million worth of assets to manage. How's that sound for responsibility? Thursday, January 18, 1968 Tough Hoops ... Continued from Page 8 der of the front court, 6-3 sen- ,,, ior Mike Doviak and 6-3 sopho- n·.ore Stan Zamkoff, take u,p the scoring s:ack. Doviak is a fine corner shooter, while Zamkoff is good from all over the floor, \ scoring 26 in last week's win o'er RPI. Willlams may represent the ,. Garnet's toughest opponent of the season. Currently the Eph. men are unbeaten at 6-0, with victories over Coast Guard, Al- bany State, Trinity, Harvard, Si- tJ ena, and Worcester Poly. Wil- liams is a high scoring ball club (87 points per game) with an abundance of height and .speed. ~· $eniors Jay Healy (6-3) and Torn Ervin (5-7) team u.p to give the Ephmen a high scoring backcourt. Last year, Healy was the Ephmen's leading scorer, ~· with a 19 point average, and was named to the ECAC Divis~ ion II team. The strong front court is made up of 6~4,\ 230 lbs. ~ senior Bill Drummond, 6'7\ so- phomore Dick Travers, and 6-7 senior center Bill Untereker. DICK FOWLER BSME, U. o£ California, joined Bethlehem's 1964 Loop Course. Assigned to the maintenance and engineering departments of our South San Francisco Plant, Dick handles assignments throughout the plant. A typical project was designing and supervising installation of a complex hydraulic mechanical transfer system. MANAGEMENT MINDED? Career prpspects are better than ever at Bethlehem Steel. We need on-the-ball engineering, technical, and liberal arts graduates for the 1968 Loop Course. Pick up a copy of our booklet at your placement office. An Equal Opportunity Employer in the Plans for Progress Program BETHLEHEM s ' E E L pEfH EHE\J ST EL. ,,. ' • Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS Schenectady Printing Co., Inc. t i ! and Nutmeats from all over the world. 406 STATE ST. 502 Broadway 377-8838 there's one place that does it ! 8 Watch Repairs • Diamonds Reset • Rings Sized • Engraving • Jewelry Repaired • Pearl & Bead Stringing WORK DONE ON lHE PREMISES _.._-II\ U:WIIRY I .. .t.A.I. CGMPAHY 315 State Street. Schen<K:tady _J FR 4-8219 Here's the deal. You successfully complete Atlantic Richfield's Marketing Training Program-. which takes from four to six months. Then, you'll be responsible for the success of about 15 Atlantic Richfield Service stations. Worth about $2 million. You'll make them grow. Recruit dealers. Turrrthem into successful businessmen by guiding them in sales, financial and operational management. And from this assignment, you can grow into line and staff management of sales, advertising, market Sparks are flying at AtlanticRichfieldCompany research, sales promotion, real estate, training and employee relations. From 1he word \go it demands a take-charge kind of guy. Responsible. Persistent. Able to do it your way with only limited supervision. If it's responsibility you want-ask your Placement Office to .arrange ali interview with the Atlantic Richfield Marketing representative. He's clue on your campus on January 25th. making things happen with petroleum energy I • ! ( . • ' ·w Thursda· Cc The J questio11 1968 Co 11 teen mo next we the COil faculty eligible present cordiem will set• awardee • greates swers. 1 questior order t Free pa1 \' be awa .ners-up. Answ ~· be subiJ deadline 12, 196l to any, Concord • be placj located ities Of judges : On', 1. WI \ baseball Am eric~ date an bat? 2. Na play m 3. In ~ what is pass i11 zone of . 4. Na \' lege ba! in the Frame M MAYF 1\t th« TUES. t THl --- ( _( 161:

18, 1968 Thursday, Jcnuary·18, 1968 7 ~. f . . . 8 6-3 sen- '' 6-3 sopho- u,p the is a fine Zamkoff )) the floor, eek's win esent the ,. ponent of the Eph, 6-0, with Al- Si- ~ Wil· ball club with an .speed. ~ and up to scoring was g scorer, and AC Divis~ front ~· ,\ 230 lbs. ~· 6'7\ so- and 6-7 cisco project need arts 68 a your nity ns for ' • t i ! and kind I • ! ( . • , I: Concordy Cash Sports Quiz Allison, Ketz Elected As ·w The follo'Wing fifteen sports questions are Part One of the 1968 Concordy Sports Quiz. Fif- \ teen more questions included in next week's issue will complete the contest. All students and faculty of Union College are eligible vvith .the exception of present members of the Con- cordiensis staff. Ten dollars cash will se1•ve as first prize; being awarded to the entry with the • greates number of cor:rect an- swers. In case of a tie, further questions will be provided in order to determine a winner. Free passes. to local theaters will \' be awarded to deserving run- .ners-up. Answe;rs for both parts .should ~· be submitted together, and the deadline is noon on February 12, 1968. EDtries may be given to any wo11king members of the Concordy s:ports staff, or may • be placed itl• the Concordy box, located in the Student Activ- ities Office, The decision of the judges is final. On'y 1('2 Your Troubles 1. Who was the first Negro \ baseball player to play in the American League? What was the date and result of his first at- bat? 2. Name the only midget to play major-league baseball? 3. In professional football, ~ what is the result of offensive pass interference in the end zone of the defensive team? . 4. Name the last Union Col- \' lege basketball opponent to play in the NBA. CHARLES OPTICIANS 6CJ4 Union St. FR 7-1283 Frames a11cl Lenses Replaced Prescriptions Filled 5. From the cities represented in major league baseball, foot- ball, and basketball in 1968 - a. which cities have teams in only football and basketball. b. \\hich cities have teams in only baseball and football c. which cities have teams in only baseball and basketball 6. Identify the achievement exemplified by the following awards and name their 1966 winners (a) Seagram's Tr@.phy, (b) International Trophy, (c) Vare Trophy, (d) Porter Cup 7. Name the American ama- teur golfer who made famous the Schenectady rutter just af- ter the turn of the century. 8. Name the colleges which the following NBA players at- tended ·(a) John B-lock, (b) Al Tucker (c) Bob Rule, (d) Earl Monroe, (e) Jim Fox 9. Name the original eight teams of the American Basl,tet- ba11 League as formed in 1961. Who was the league's champion- ship team, and the first MVP? 10. Union and RPI each had one football coach associated more closely with the. NFL than with 'college feotball. Name the two coahces. 11. The last two eastern schools to win the NCAA Hock- ey Championship have some- thing in common. What is it? 12. Who pitched a no-hitter against the Boston Red Sox in 1967? 13. The N. Y. Mets pitching staff set a record in 1967. What was it? r · ·FRA'Ni<. 'iiiiiiliio· · j ~ Wholesale and Ret.ail ~ : ~ f f ~ ~ t Fruits and Produce - Fresh Daily - Twice Daily on Campu& 1231 CRANE STREET ~ Schenectady, N. Y. It Dl 6-1763 i .......•..••........•... Mother Ferro's Restaurant Specializing in Italian D American food 01scount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA ' I I Free Porkin9 Dl 6-9554 1115 Barrett St. I The PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP 262 Saratoga Road MAYFAIR SHOPPING CENTER 1\t the Sig~ of the Red Neon Pipe TUES. thru 'SAT. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. also THU!tS, e~nd FRI.: 7 to 9 PM SCOTIA, N. Y. Phone 399-1630 DARI TREET RESTAURANT VOllli CHO!CE CHAR-BROIL STEAK VEAL CUTLET CHICKEN ... $1.50 2049 Van Vranken Ave. fR 7-4261 ~I DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott Street I Open Daily 1 0 to l A.M. : i Sundays 5 P.M. to l A.M. ' L. G. BALFOUR CO. CARL SORENSEN BADGES - RINGS • FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY • PROGRAMS CLUB PINS • KEYS MEDALS • TROPHIES Write or Call fraternity Jewelers 729 South Crouse Ave. Syra£use, N.Y. 13210 -Old Dutch Restaurant OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK .i I A Touch of Holland in Schenectady 1 Excellent Food -.- Moderate Prices I ) 10% DISCOUNT FOR ALL UNION STUDENTS I 14. What former major league baseball player is ath- letic director at Hartwick Col- lege? Also, who is freshman basketball coach there? '15. Name the C()llege which has three alumni playing guard in the NBA. A complete list ·t>f prize win- ners along with the correct an- swers will be printed in the February 15, 1968 issue of Con- cordy, just in time for Winter Weekend, when the cash could certainly be used well Scoreboard & Schedule This Week's Games: Basketball Saturday: Union at Alfred Tuesday: Williams at Union (V and f) Memor.ial Field House 6:'1 5 Swimming .Saturday, Hobarl at Union (V and f) Foote Bool 2:00 Last Week ;s Results Basketball Union 62 Harpur 61 Union 66 Hamilton 64 Wesleyan 102 Union 79 Weslayan (F) 86 Union 59 Wrestling Union 39 Alfred 0· Swimming Union 60 Norwich· 33 Union (F) 83 Norwich 12 NCAA Ammends 1.6 Rule By HENRY FEIN After more than three years of heated debate, the NCAA has finally modified its highly c<Jntroversal 1.6 rule of player eligibility. The ru~e was a thorn in the side of many East- ern colleges surh as Union, and a number of schools joined the Garnet in refusing to abide by the dictum. At its recent con- vention in New York City, the NCAA voted to significanCy amend its previous stand. In other important moves, the NCAA ru~ed fFeshmen eligib:e for varsity competition, and named Union's Director of Ath- letics Wilford H. Ketz to its ex~ ecutive committee. Before the change, the NCAA by-laws restricted eligibility to those upperclassmen who achiev- ed more than a 1.6 grade point average. At the same time, frosh with more than a 1.6 pro- & jected index could likewise com- pete. The great objection was to t:he former; many colleges resented the I\CAA's attempt to regulate institutional policy. Rule Choices The ECAC proposed two al- ternatives to the 1.6 rule as it stood: sharp amendment or out- right appeal. The NCAA itself likewise approved an amend- ment, but it was less drastic than the ECAC text. At the c<mvention, the ECAC amend- ment was passed, by a 170-166 V()te. However, the convention next took up the NCAA pro- posal, and it was ruled that if the latter wori, it, and .not the ECAC aJNndment, would stand as law. The NCAA change was overwhelmingly approved. 232- 92. The present 1.6 rtt.le now states that any athlete that en- ters college with high-er than 1.6 projected grade point index will be eligible for his. entire college career, as long as he continues to meet college and' conference eligibility 1:ules and as long as he advances 'With his class. The :projected in«<e:x will now be based on nationat levels. In the past, the projected index of a student could be .£igured on institutional, regional, or even depmtmental bases. Thus under the ;present system, every entering athlete will be scho las- tic ally ranked on a nation-wide basis. If, on the other hand, an entering freshman cloes not meet the L(J, requireme11t~ then he rr.ust follow the former- rule, and must maintain a ·rnhthnum 1.6 average in college. Mr. Ketz, in review ihg the situation, sees no reason. why Union could not accept the new 1.6 rule. Last year, for example, on~y two frosh in the ~mtire Announcement Th€re dll be an O!rg:alliza. tional meeting of all players interested in Varsity or Fresh· man Lacr(Jsse on Monda..:y, Ja.nu- ary 22, in the Social Sciences Auditorium, stat ting at \' :00 p.m. entering class failed to achieve a 1.6 projected index. One was a foreign student with a lan- guage problem, while the other had a 1.57 score. He stated: \The rule is raising the stand· ards of a lot of schools ... but it is no problem for high caliber schools such as Union. There is no reason for us not to be in conformity ... '' He admitted, however, that the problem of outside control still exists, al- though it has been greatly les- sened, and in Union's case vir- tually eliminated. He said: ''Even the Ivy League . . . can live with it.\ New Frosh Rule The.new freshman rule, which will aeow competition in all varsity sports except football and basketball, was termed \a bad piece of legislation\ by Mr. Ketz. It was advocated by the Southeastern and Western Ath- letic conferences and is an at- tempt to lessen the cost of maintaining expensive frosh squads in areas where travel costs are often significant. Ketz felt that the rule will be re- pealed next year, but neverthe- less, it will not affect Union, The ECAC forbids frosh com- petition on any team for schools with more than 1250 men. In a move that puts the Gar- net on the national sports map, Director of Athletics Wilford Continued on Page 6 j THE SPREAD-EAGLE OF TECHNOLOGY AT GRUMMAN Ranges from inner to outer space Grumman has special interest for the graduating engineer and scientist seeking the widest spread of technology for his skills. At Grumman, e11gineers ate involved in deep ocean technology .. ,engineers see their advanced aircraft designs proven daily in the air over Vietnam, and soon ... in outer space, the Grumman LM (Lunar Module) will land the astro- nauts on the lunar surface. Grumman, situated in Bethpage, L.I. (30 miles from N.YC.), is in the cultural center of activity. Universities are close at hand for those who wish to continue tlleir studies. C£.N.Y., Manhattan College, New York University, Pratt Institute, Columbia University, State University at Stony Brook, Jlolytechnic Institute of Brook- lyn, Hofstra University and Adelphi College are all within easy distance. 'The surroundings are not hard to take. Five beautiful public golf courses are in Bethpage-two minutes from the plant. White sand beaches stretch for miles along the Atlantic ( 12 minutes drive). The famed sailing reaches of Long Island Sound are only eleven miles away. The informal atmosphere is a Grumman tradition, matched by an equally hard-nosed one of turning out some of the free world's highest performance aircraft systems and space vehicles.T{) name a few .•• LM-Lunar Module to land the astronauts on the lunar surf<tce EA·GA lntruder- AII·weather.tactical, electronicweapan system \ PX15-4•Man Deep Submersible Vessel to conduct .undersea experiments Here then is the opportunity for graduating engineers. AEs, CEs, EEs, MEs, !Es, Physic tnajors and Chemical Engineering majors,., to take their place in the continuum of technology that is Grumman. Grumman representatives will be ON CAMPUS FEBRUARY 1, 1968 To (lbtain Grumman literature and arrange an interview, coiJtact your plac>e1nent office. If an interview is not convenient at this time, send comprehensive resume to: Mr. Frank A. Hurley, Administrator of College Relations, Engiheering Employment, Dept. GR-251 GRUMM-AN AIRCRAFT ENGINEERING CORPORATION Bethpage • !Long I.aland • New York. :1714 An equal opportllnily employer (M!F) 1617 Union St. Phone 374•5770 I !....____------------~ i..

$ $ Sports Quiz $ $ Page 7 Concordy Sports Cagers Win Two Toughies; Cards Romp Alfred Next By GARY p.J.t.E'V{)ST A pair of clutch last minute performances capped. two fine defensive efforts and brought two tight basketball victories to the Garnet before an overpow- ering W esleyali. press forced Union to its fifth ·defeat. Fri- day, following a minute long stall, Barry Katz1nan made two free throws with 41> seconds left for an insurm()utltable five point lead, and Harpur finally feH 62-61. Saturday night Craig Carlson's driving lay-up with six seconds remaining broke a 64-64 tie to give the Garnet five a well-earned victmy over a 6-4 Hamilton sqttad. A metho- dical stall prior to Carlson's winning basket wasted away the final minute after Hamilton missed a crucial foul shot. Feldman Stars Cliff Feldman played two fine games for the Butchmen. Against 2-4 Harpw he scored 22 points and ha11led down 22 rebounds in the finest single game effort by a Garnet hoop- ster in the past couple of years. He continued his fine play against Hamilton witb 18 points and 13 rebounds. Fitz Turner, who had been enjoying a medi· ocre season, produced two espec· ially fine halves, the opening half both night. A.gainst the Colonials he scored 13 of his 15 points in the first half and 13 of his 19 rebounds in the first half the following night. Bill Neidel broke out of a long shooting slump with all 18-point performance against Hamilton which included two clutch bas- kets in the final two minutes. Fi:z Turner stretchs fo: one of 19 rebounds in Saturday's 66-64 win over Hamilton -----~~----------------- The key to Friday night's win over Harpur may \Vellllave been Craig Carlson's fine defensive play against the Colonial's Larry Gainen. Gainen wh<> was aver- aging 22 points per .game was held to a mere seven by Carlson. Schmid lauded the team's de- fensive effort on both nights as two teams which werE averaging over 80 points per game were held to their lowest Jl()int totals Editors Corner: ... of the season. Both defensive efforts, however would have been for naught had the Garnet not improved on their early season anemic shoot- ing percentages. Saturday night's 31 of 77 ( 40.2%) was their best effort of the season. Those two games set the pat- tern for the season. The Garnet lack the offensive power to run over any of the teams on our schedule. They must play delib- erate ball to keep the games close, and then hope to win a good percentage of the tight games. Tuesday's contest with Wesieyan ~howed what can hap- pen when the Lia;::!<.:t don't con- trol the ball. Wesleyan pressed for the first half, stole the ball often, and shot out the lights as they rolled to an easy 102-79 11ictor~· to drop. Union to 3-5. 'l'he contest was close early, until twelve straight points by Player of the Week By his performance last week- end in the two squeaker basket- ball victories over Harpur and Hamilton, Cliff Feldrnan has be- come winter's first Player of the Week. Scoring a total of 40 points and coming down with 35 rebounds for the two games, Feldman continued his role as the most consistently outstand- ing Garnet hoopster, after ex- periencing a tou gil Christmas tourney. Cliff was outstanding for the freshman team two years ago, but academic diffioeu I ties put him out of action last season. He has hit top form quickly despite the layoff, and is the only eager averaging in double figures. His inside defense and rebounding are also o11tstanding for a player his size. Cliff Feldman Cavalier's In Upset; Case Still Top Average Ken Merchant's 2()4-566 spark- ed Cavalier's Restaurant's upset victory over league-leading Team # 9 in last -week's feature match of the Dutch Classic. Front-running AI Case led the losers with 539, dropping his average to 192, but his eleven pin bulge over John Hine re- mained intact. Sandy Dodge added 514 for Team #9. The Truckers moved to with- in 21f2 points of first place by taking three from Poggi's Res- taurant as Don Hovey connected for 559. Greg Ellis was high for Poggi's with 515. John Hammerstr()m of Team # 6 garnered high score hon- ors for the week: with 204-585 in sparking a 3'·1 drubbing of Doro!hy's Beauty Salon. Doug Vergith and Dave Gourlie post- ed 561 and 521, respectively, for the winners, while Bill Lavin's 214-576 and Hine's 205-532 pac- ed the opposition. Team # 10 took advantage of three close contests and wound up with a 3-1 verdict over prev- iously third-ranked Moffett's Liquor Store, led by Bob Eri- anne's 537 trio. Frank Herba added 521 and Charley Sullivan 504, but Don Hayes' 207-546 earned the underdogs an up- set. Torn Benedict's 234-557 was too much for Team # 5 as Ted- dy K's Tavern took three points. Pete Van Lund contributed 201- 502 to the winning formula. Wesleyan staked them to a 26- 12 lead. The Garnet then grad- ually closed the gap until the score read 42-i34 with two min- utes remaining in the half. The press then began to unnerve Union's deliberate offense, as the Cardinals shot to a 53-36 halftime lead. Whatever doubt remained about the outcome was quickly dispelled as Wesley- an hit on 11 ()I 12 from the field to open the second half With the score at 80-49, th~ Wesleyan bench got into the action, but the Garnet could get no closer than 95-75. Both teams shot almost exactly 50% from the field, and the rebounding was nearly equal. Bill Neidel led the Garnet with 25 points, including 12 of 19 from field. Contributing heavily to the los- ing effort was l'ad Knight with 18. Jack Sitarz led the winners with 22. Tough B-Ball Ahead The Garnet cagers attempt to resume their winning ways this week against a pair of tough opponents. On Saturday, the Dutchmen make their ICAC debut against Alfred before re- turning home to face Williams on Tuesda:,·. Alfred is pl'esently leading the ICAC with a 2-0 record, and must be rated as the favorite in the loop, even thoutth their overall record is only 5-6. The ICAC games the Saxons have played thus far have resu'ted in victoriE>c; cwPt' Hobart 105-71 and RPI 79-63. ' Alfred is a young, strong team, boasting three sophomore starters. The backcourt is made up of 5-10 senior Mike John- ston and 5-9 sophomore Peter Ryan. Johnston, the ICAC foot- ball player of the year is a fine playmaker while Ryan,' the lead- mg scorer on last year's frosh te~m is averaging almost 20 pomts per game. The center 6-5 ~ophomore Cameron May, i~ a fme rebounder, but is not much of a shooter. The remain- Continued Bn Page 6 424 State Street Schenectady, New York Garnet Wrestle,rs Take Alfred 39-0 The 1968 Garnet vat-sity wrestlers continued their winning ~ays Saturday, posting .aiL impressive 39-0 rout of .A'lfred Univer- sity. It was the grapple:rs,. s..econd straight victory without a loss. 'rhe squad has the week off ~s it prepares to meet Dartmouth here on January 24. The Garnet cause V\Vas aided by three Alfred forfeits in the • 123, 137, and ~52 weig~t dassell. The competition was led off by· J?erhaps the hardest-tougllt match of the young season. Frank· D'A_ntuono, wrestling wiih an jnjll:red shoulder, won a thrilling 4-3 d~clSlon. Lee F!Ye, who w:re:stled 11~ the .145 class Saturday, pinned lus second stra1ght opponent, to.ppmg h1s Alfred foe in only 1:25, , ln the 160 class, Ev epoett ~elton won .a 5-3 decision, giving the Garnet a 26-0 lead. Nay;S!Dl S1.mon lost h1s contact lens 1n his 167 match, but quickly folll.nd it, and came right back to pin his · ~Ifred opponent in 4:24. :mury Cornwall won his 177 match by a fme 7-2 !!ount. Fra~k FtLSick became the third Garnet . .grappler to ~1£1St h1s second p1n vrhen he took his heavyweight foe in 4:43. In exhibition rnatci.Ies;,. freshman Bart Gale posted his second straight decision, winning ilis 145 match by a 9-2 counL Steve ;French, however, sufie::reld a pin at the hands of his Alfred foe m 3:30. Doug JVerth lost ~Ls second .straight heartbrea,ker; falling short noce agalll by two .po1nts. The fmal eount was 10-8 Ken lVler:t won an exhibition heavy-weight by pinning his Alfred foe' in 7:25. Although the squad. 'lhas. the week free of competition, it must look ahead to two home m;atches the week after. Dartmouth invades Wednesday, January 24:, anod the Hobart grapplers will challenge the Garnet on Sattuday,. J .all.uar:v 27, also here in the Ahmmi Gym. Mermen Dr1·wn Norwich; Frosb Score Shutout By JAY BLITZMA:~ The varsity and :fr~s!J.man swimming teams opeJLedi. their seasons with easy . w:iins over Norwich Saturday. The \'a.rsity triumphed by a 6()-33 c:oun t while the frosh shutout the visitors 83-12. The first event of t.h~ after· noon was prophetic of t!Ungs to come as the medley r~la:y te~m of Fred Fagel, Steve ~erlin, Norm Dovberg and Dave Se-ward almost lapped their a<lversaries twice as they posted a tirne o£ 4:21.5. Fagel also co:nt•ibute<l a second in the 200cyar:'d br:'east· stroke and a third in tb.e 200· yard backstroke, whilE W erlin won the 200-yard buttei'fly. Sew· ard chipped in with .a second in the 100-yard freestyil:e, and Dovberg added to the t.ally as runner up in the individu;al med- ley. Dick Amesbury, Kevin HClben, and Dick Corrigan each scored a first and a second in the meet to lead the individb.ai. per- formances. Amesbury ~xeelled in the freestyle. winniag iho€ !iOO and placing second in tilie 200. He was followed to t..h~ finish by Tom Flynn in bot:'h events. '71 BB Falls Returning to action a-fter a 1 six-week layoff, the frosJJ .ca~ers were defeated Tuesday ni;gh. t by a strong Wesleyan cluJJ, 86·59. The frosh shot well in th~ early going, and held a !l0-16 1ead midway through the fiTst lla1f. In the next eighteen mEnotes of gasket ball, the . frosh Inanag(!d JUSt twelve pomts antd found themselves on the shori enod of a 57-32 score and hopelessly- ()Ut of the contest. Dave S.h!lmes was the high point mam for- the G~rnet with 15, whiloe B.arry F1tzgerald scored 10. Hoben won the 100-yard free· style and was second in the 50 while Corrigan took the 200: yard individual medley and ptaced second in the 200-yard backstroke. Harvey Richmond. tooK the honors in diving com· petition. Leading the frosh onslaught were Burt Yankiver and John Horwath. Yankiver took first in the 200 and 400-yard freestyle, and helped one of the relays to victory. Horwath won the 500\ yard freestyle and the 100-yard breaststroke. Bob Szatrowski won the 100-yard butterfly and was in both relays, while Jim Newton won the 100-yard free- style and contributed to one relay. Mike Rone took the diving competition with a score thirty points higher than . the winning varsity mark. Mike Horwath placed first in the individual medley, second in the 100-y.ard. butterfly, and swam a relay. Mike Gow took tl1e honors in the only event he entered, the 100-yard backstroke. Peter Craw- ford, swimming in the same events as Yanklver, placed sec- ond in both. · Mama Bianclli' s Fine Italian & American Food Open Sunday Special Tues. & Tha,us: Spctghetti & M(!atpolls with Salad and Coffee-$1.00 1135 Barrett St. Private Banq&~et Room KNAP·P SERVICE L TO. 1000 State St_, Sch'dy 12307 - Dl 6-5900 VOLMSWAGEN & IMPORT PAR\TS & SERVICE D'EWITT'S Cafe!eria and Tap Room Fine Fe><od and Legal Beverages 1 ·lll- 120 JAY STREET New U.I.C. Chief Page 3 -- N 0 ~ 0 0 I ~ t I ~ > r r r'1 r.n 0 ~ ~· > ....... ~ ~ rJ). rn 1--1 2 1-3 w ~ ':./). t-rj 1-0 0 1-0 ~ 0 t-0 0 ~ r'1 ~ - ~ ~ 1_.1 rn > (': ::q ~ 0 H rn > ::0 8 P-3 ':fl. cr.. rn ...... ,. ... en. trj > t_-'4 ~ > t;j (1 ~ ~ rn en. IJ IJ I) f I) f 1) ' (: •) .; f ) .· . .. .. - Vol. 97 Sa Oi 'T· ByR The North , the Wa series people Nam, s~ tant Ma Times ning. I Hanoi.\ If WE dustrial Westen attack Salisbu1 Nam is that do amount ing has of the i Furt:b of Nort tive. Be of the her tra roads a are qui blasted systems canal b quick b destroy The J accusto ing, tho they h~ fort. Tl bridges on theiJ on the~ being ~ as they R_ C4 A re Curricu Tuesda' for jur introdu course during The taken f to be ' in ten de his ed1 aspects port pr• from b instruct which 1 would' set for broad ~ some c commm cular I further leasf or field st At tt instruct grades second meet or nar. At stan dar• given. ~ tion coJ publica1 ~~encie: ble topi

IJ II I) f I) f Viet History The \0\ is for • . .. ,, PageS Page2 (: Founded at Union College 1877 ') ;~----------------------~~~~~~~==~~~~~--------------------~~~~ Vol. 97- No. 12 SCHENECTA9Y, NEW YORK, THURSDAY, JANUARY 25, 19·58 PRICE 15 CENTS ) .· . ·Salisbury Cites Fallacies Of Viet Botnbing Policy; 'Twill Not End The War By RICIIARD PATTERSON, JR. The belief that the bombing of North Viet Nam will end or shorten the War in Viet Nam is based on a series of misconceptions about the people and country of North Vi_et Nam, said Harrison Salisbury, Assis- tant Managing Editor of the New York Times in Convocation Tuesday eve- ning. His topic was \Report from Hanoi.\ are ,prepared to carry on the war as long as necessary. \It doesn't seem .to me that we can either destroy :their ability to maintaip. the popul~; tion or support troops m the south, Salhbury said. On the question of ~he effect .of the bombing on the Hanoi leadership Sal- isbury pointed out that the North Vietnamese have been fighting almost continuously since the nineteen twen- ties and \the plain fact is that they have been fighting for so long that a ten year yvar doesn't seem as l_ong to thern as 1t does to us\ he sa1d. Continued on Page 2 Student Council Hikes Student Acti'Vities Fee By NEIL S. KRAMER Monday evening the Student Coun- cil took the decisiVe step toward the equitable financing of student ex- tracurricular organizations as it un- animously voted· to increase the Stu- dent Activities Fee four dollars per term starting with spring registra- tion. This raises the total charge in future years from $33 to $45. This action must be approved by the college's Trustees. Since they do not convene until June, it is unlikely that the higher levy will be enacted until September, 1968. In describing the Student Ta:x ·Com- mittee as a \stingy parent,\ chairman Jim Rubenstein released the commit- tee report for the first two terms and revealed that the \whole student ac- tivities scene is acting on a shoe- string.\ Winter term allocations had to be adjusted so that the first term deficit of $227.68 could be removed. Rubenstein explained further that with its present assets, the Student Tax Committee has had to limit the requests of extant and fledging ac- counts solely because of financial lim- itations. He said that \the role of the Tax Committee should be to encour- age activities to all reasonable limits,\ yet only 75 to 80% of most groups' requests were met due to the demand for funds and limited income. va:ue Judgements Since the Tax Committee does not have enough money to meet the re• quests of campus groups, it has been obliged to make more and more value judgements, judgements which Ruben· stein described as \decisions that we should not have to make.\ He con· tinued by saying that a group which a11ocatEs funds should not be put in the position that it must determine which organjzations should survive and which shottld be forced to become dormant or turn elsewhere for funds. Fttrt:ber discussion revealed that a tax increase would enable the com- mittee to give more consideration to club sports, significantly broaden the scope and financial soundness of col- lege-wide entertainment, and enable the bookkeeping of student activities accounts to beeome more compre- hensible. See.'<s Financial Stability If we were bombing a highly in- dustrialized country such as those in Western Europe, the intensity of our attack would paralyze the country, Salisbury said. However, North Viet Nam is a backward peasant country that does not depend on its small amount of industry, and this bomb- ing has had little effect on the ability of the pe<Jple to cany on the war. LOCKWOOD COMM·EN.TS ON MILITARY RECRUITERS In discussing the form of the Tax Committee accounts, Rubenstein re- vealed that ''nobody really has ex- plained the way our year-end assets and deficits are handled.\ His aim with tllis year's finances has been tG balance the books with respect to current annual operations, since he is not sure of the nature of the entire student activities' financial posture. He claimed that student activities al- locations would be planned in a more unified manner- if the assets and li- abilities of the Tax Committee were clearly understandable and visible. Primitive Roads Furthermore, the roads and bridges of North Viet Nam are quite primi- tive. Bombing the concrete highways of the U.S. would, indeed, paralyze her transport, but North Viet Nam's roads are dirt and the holes caused are quickly filled by the same dirt blasted out by the bombs. Ingenious systems of pontoon bridges made of canal barges lashed together provide quick bridge service whenever one is destroyed. The people of North Viet Nam are accustomed to a low standard of liv- ing, their homes are mud huts and they have nothing approaching com- fort. The bombing of industry, roads, bridges, and harbors has little effect on their lives. They are not dependent on these sources for their existence, being almost self-sufficient. As long as they can get enough to eat, they :Ey RICHARD BALAGUR Dean Theodore Lockwood, speaking as an official college spokesman Tues- day. refused to commit the College to a definite policy of opposition to S~­ lective .Service Director General Lewis Hershey's attempt to revoke stude!lt deferments of those who engage m illegal anti-draft activities. Tlle College made the statement Tuesday to Concordiensis reporters in response to an editorial in last week's <:oncordiensis calling for \a firm and clear position\ on this issue. \At this moment,\ Lockwood stated, \there are no grounds to deny access (to tilis campus) to any recruiter be- cause of what Hershey has done.\= L<Jckwood said it is the college's anderstanding that local draft boards will not act to draft students unless it is demonstrated by the proper au- thorities tllat the student has acted illegally in protesting the war. '\Whether they will elect to act if this happens is st'nl another question.\ \VIe do not see Hershey's position as gr<Ju.nds for changing our policy on military recruiters,\ he said. The college would take action \if a recruiters or anyone else draws up lists or takes pictures and turns them over to draft boards if they are de- signed to jeopardize free expression by students. \If he (the recruiter), overtly ,or REPORT ADVISES COMP ED CHANGES A report to the faculty from the Curricula Affairs Committee issued Tuesday calls for a \project\ course for juniors. in Comp. Ed. and the introduction ·Of a broad, \provocative\ ccmrse call~d \Disputed Questions\ during the Senior year. The Junior project course, to be taken for two consecutive terms and to be equivalent to two courses, is intended to help a \student relate his education to the cosmopolitan aspects of our civilization.\ The re- port prop<Jses that six students_, drawn from botll centers, meet unaer one instructor to choose a problem on which the students, in teams of two,, would work for a term. \The problem set for each team should involve a broad and systematic examination of some current issue relating to the community at large or to non-curri- cular life on the campus.\ It was further stated that \in each team at leasf one student will be involved in field study of the problem.\ Pass-Fail At the end of the first term, the instructor will give the students grades of either pass or fail. For the second term, the six students will meet once or twice a week as a semi- nar. At the end of the second term, standard grades from A to F will be given. The report suggested \popula- tion control, urban planning, college publications, and the role of selected a~encies in the government\ as possi- ble topics. · T:he senior Comp. Ed. program is suppc.sed to offer \an opportunity for the student to stand off and examine the assumptions upon which society rests ... \ The report recommends that \one of the two courses taken by all students in the senior year be s~lected from among four courses broadly labelled 'Disputed Questions.' The purpose of such courses is to ••probe unsettled, essentially philo- sopllical questions within a general field ()f inquiry.\ Seniors would also take one move Qption outside their center. T:he sophomore year of Comp., Ed. would, according to the report, remain basically the same as at present. A student would be required to take two options outside his center in large lecture sections. T:he freshman year would also not he altered substantially. Incoming frosh would receive a booklet before entering listing course instructors and their fields of interest. It was recom- mended that Comp. Ed. 11 be more .flerible in choice of topics, and that it \make wider use of individual stu- dent exploration within the seminar.\ Tlle report co11,cluded with an eval- uation of the ability of the faculty to car-ry the load of teaching Comp. Ed. under this proposed program. This report was submitted to the faculty on 'l'uesday and is now under con- Sidel:a1;ion. It is expected to come to a vote at the faculty meeting in late F'ebruai·y. covertly, takes names or pictures, the college will immediately withdraw re- cruiting priviliges of the service in- volved and make a protest to the armed services.\ Lockwood declared, \It is not clear to us, as an institution, that the gov- ernment does not have the power to take this action (against Hershey's stand.\ Both the leaders of the Campus Action Committee and the editor of Concordiensis expressed their disap- pointment with the college stand. Rich P a t t e r s o n, Concordiensis editor thought \the College should be cour· ageous enough to take a stand in favor of protecting student rights.\ (An E<Utorial on this topic appears on page 4.) The Soul Survivors, as presenied in a photographic montage that expands their sixness to manyness. Freshman Class Will Present Soul Survivors On February 17 By ALLEN GARTNER \When the whistle blows anything goes ... But. when you do it •.. do it with souL\ Beginning every per- formance with this slogan, The Soul Survivors, who play to \standing room only\ crowds at nearly every engage- ment, · have been signed to play at Memorial Cl!apel on Februal'y 17. when the Freshman Class will present Winter Weekend '68. Coming to Union from a perform- ance at the University of Vermont's \Cakewalk\ weekend, the six mem- bers of Tile Soul Survivors will begin their performance at 8:30 p.m. with two 45 minute shows separated by a 15 minute intermission. Tickets f<>r the entire concert will be sold .at $2.25 per person. The Soul Survivors greatest hit \Ex- pressway To Your Heart\ was among the top ten in 1967 and their latest release \Explosion In My Soul\ is rapidly becoming another hit. \Wi/cf' Shows A combination of vocal group and instrumental combo, The Soul Surviv· ors were united into one \soul band\ when both groups met when they were involved in an auto accident on the New Jersey Turnpike. Famous for \wild\ shows, The Soul Survivors rearly caused a riot when they began smashing their instruments before 80 1 000 concertgoers in Philadelphia. Provided with an approximate bud- get. of $3,000, the freshman class offi- cers and the Student Council chose The Soul Survivors from a list of about 40 groups. Included in the Winter Weekend will be a home basketball. game with Clarkson on Friday night and the Continued on Page 2 Rubenstein concluded that this could best be accomplished if the student activities account were sepa- rated from other college banking, and not intricately interwoven with all of the school's finances. However, this separatE account would not be feasi- Continued on Page 2 SC Chooses Manker VP; Choice !68 Rusty Manker was elected Student Council Vice President at the meeting on Monday night. He succeeds Grady Aronstamm who assumed the presi- dency 11pon the resignation of Ray Pike. The council . also approved a pro- posal to participate in the April na- tion-wide poll of college students. Manker, following the vote, voiced hope for greater communication be- tween the student body and the stu- dent council. Asked specifically what could be done, Manker proposed a new lo()k at the convocation and gym maintenance programs with an eye toward modification. Additionally, the new Vice-Presi- dent, suggested the introduction of a permanent Identification Card to re- plac~ t:be cu.rrent: system of replace- ment e\Very ten weeks. This is neces- sary, h.e added, because the present card is not effective, often not pro- viding the positive identification need· ed to cash checks. Further, lVIa11ker recommended the reevaltration of the social rules in hopes ·Of finding a more equitable code. Also he expressed the belief that block sales of tickets to concerts at the beginning of the year would serve tl1e two-fold purpose of provid- ing a solid financial base for special events and raising the level of enter- tainmellt provided on the weekends. Approval of the student opinion poll will give the Union College stu- dent body the chance to stand up and be counted come presidential primary time this spring. \Choice 68\ will be given Union men as well as several million other college students across the country. \Ch()ice 68\ will include opinion on fivE referendum issues, one of them expected to be the war in Viet- nam. The student poll Qriginated at Fordham University when a groUp of students thought of the idea and approa()hed the editors of Time Maga- zine fo·r financial support. Time, which agreed to underwrite the primary, expected to poll at least a million students across the country. The votes will be tabulated by the student council under the direction of committee chairman Bob Michaels. The re,gults will be sent to headquar- ters in the Time-Life Building in New York City whei·e they will be pub- lisiled. Continued on Page 2

2 HNorth End\ Opening A Success By lt. LAWRENCE A full house was on hand Friday night to welc~me the opening. of the \North End\ coffee house in Bronner House, Entertamment was ~rov1ded by the Cliff Safane Jazz Trio and folksingers Carl Rosenstock and Al Ziegler. Also on display was a photography exhibit by Wayne Darling. Among the college dignitaries who dropped in for the opening were Acting Dean o£ Students Charles A. Olton, History. Professor Manfred Jonas,, Director of the Graduate Program in American Studies, and Richard Lucas, Director of the Residence Program. The \North End,\ coincidentally located in northend of Bronner I;Jouse at the north end of North College is planned as a center for poetry readmgs and \a:lmost any other form of the' :performing arts which could fit our concern,\ aecordind\ to juniors Jim Talbert and Cliff Safane, who opened the coffee house, although'='the main emphasis will be on jazz and folk music. At the present time the \North End\ will be open only on Friday nights, from 8:30 p.m. to 1:00 a.m., but could be open three nights a week if successfuL It is open to the public for an admission of fifty cents per person or eighty cents per couple; coffee, tea, and donuts are available for refreshments. The Cliff Safane Jazz Trio, consisting of Tony Berk sitting i.n for Rick Holmes on bass Tom Higgons on Drums and Sa£ane on the bass clarmet, played a large number of the avant·guarde ja~z pie~es of the late John ~oltrane and original compositions of Safane's. Pl~ymg Wlthou~ Berk. for ~he frrst set, both Safane and Higgins demonstrated the1r talents at unprov1sed Jazz solos. ~~rthy of comment were \Softly So Softly'' and \Wee! Ha,,' both by. Safan.e. In Wee, Ha'; Safane plays a 3 minute solo on the mouth p1ece of h1s clarmet. In the . second set the group -!hayed together weH, creating the feeling of a single group rather than three individuals. Carl Rosenstock and Al Ziegler, second guit_ar, also played a large nu~ber of their own compositions. After an erratic openmg they settled down to give a good rendition of \Hey That's No W~y '~o Say. Goo.dbye': b.~ Leonard C~h~~ and the original \Seasons of Your Mmd.' Joame Mitchel s Urge for Gom and Ziegler and Rosenstock's \Melissa\ were also well done. Both groups joined together in the finale for the first time to play \Summer is the Kind of Season\ by Rosenstock. Potentially an excellent sound, the two guitars, drums, bass and bass clannet blended toge.ther per~ectly at times but at times the lack of balance drowned out the vocahst or gmtars. Continued on Page 6 Winter Weekend Plans Continued from Page 1 annual snow sculpture contest Sat· urday afternoon featuring competition between fraternities and dormitory units. Spring and Senior Weekends According to Rusty Manker, Stu· dent Council Social chairman who aided Freshman President Howie Mil· ler in organizing Wi:p.ter Weekel).d. entertainment for Sprmg and Semor Weekends will be announced shortly. Salisbury Continued from Page 1 The Friday evening Spring Weekend concert will be held in the Field House while both Saturday night's Spring Weekend and Senior Weekend concerts will take place in Memorial Chapel. 0. IS FOR ORLAND - The 0. in 0. Edward Pollock stands for Orland. A family secret for seven years, Dick. Amesbury, Inter-Fraternity Council President, discovered the identity of Union's past Dean of :;t'udents last week. Amesbury received a letter from Pollock thanking him for the Coun- cil's going-away party held at the close of the Fall term when the Dean left to become Vice-president for Stu- dent Personal Services at Monmouth College, Long Beach, N.J. Before the bombing began, hostility between the peasant~ and t!le com· munist rulers was evident. Smce the bombing began, Sali.sbury said, it nas unified the people lll support of the Hanoi regime. He said it was clear that the bombing would not end the war,. In such a situation. where the opponents could go on forever, the The letter closed: Fraternally yours, Peace Corps Rercruiter Here; Seeks Volunteers Tw() former Peace Corps volunteers have been recruiting in the lobby of the Schaeffer Library since Mon- day and will be there today .and to- morrovv to answer any questions Union students may have concerning the Peace 'Corps. David Cadigan, one of the volun- teers, stated that the week's recruit· ing had so far produced \quiet and steady-\ results. Cadigan pomted out that ·Peace Corps applications had de- creased considerably over the past two years and particularly at col- leges Stich as Union. The need is so great that Cadigan estimated that \a students with sfncere motivation and a bachelor's degree has nearly a ninety per cent chance of being se- lected for services.\ 'fief Po!icy Hurts Corps WhEn asked why the number of prospective volunteers had decreased so sha:rply in the past two Years, Cadi· gan r-eplied that dissatisfaction over Vietnarnese War had probably caused many young people to disassociate thems-€lves with the government and the administration. Such programs as the P·eace Corps suffer the indirect affects of President Johnson's .policies. David Cadigan was a Peace Corps- man in Thailand. He taught English Literatare at the University in Bang- kok. Judith Hodges, the other volun- teer at Union was a teacher in Debra Zeit , Ethiopia. She taught English, the country's second language, at all levels from elementary school to the University. First- Step - Language Test Students interested in the Peace Corps are urged to sign up for the Modern Language Aptitude Test (a thirty rninute test in English, designed to test language learning ability) to be given on Friday at 4:30 and Sat- urday at 10:30 in the Phi Beta Kappa Room_ Taking the test puts the pros- pective volunteer under no further obligation. The Peace Corps can use nearly all types of majors in some area, so all interested students are urged to speak to the vohmteers in the library. Thursday, January 25, 1968 ,· ' Student Tax Co1n1nittee Issues Financial Report ACCOUNTS OPERATING REQUESTED 'FIRST TERM SECOND TERM AMOUNT for 67-68 ALLOCATED ALLOCATED Film Workshop ---------·--·----------·----------------$ 3,427.85 Idol -----------------------·-·------------------------- 4,935.00 .• Ph.lomatheans ---------·-·--·-·· ------------------------ 2,015.00 Ch eerlaoders __ -·---- --- ----·- •• ------------------------ 375.00 Photo Society ________ -- _________ ---------------\-------- 7~5.50 Outing Club -·- ----------·- -·- ··-·- ·---·- ----·------ -·-- 1,237.50 Pre Med ----·--·-----------·--·-·---------------------- 600.00 · · Bridge Club ----------------·--------------------------- 50.00 Student Council· • ---·-------- ---·------~----·-------·-- 760.00 W2UC ·-· ---·· ----·-··. ------ •• --- ••• -------·----·--·-- 358.00 WRUC -----------------------·------------------------~ 275.00 71 ;frosh Record --------------------------------------- 970.00 Concord lens is ---·-----·-----·- -·-·-----·- --------------- 8,805.00 Compus Religious Council ----·-···-·-------------------·-- 525.00 Moving .Finger ---------~----·- -------------------------- 965.00 Mo~ntebanks -------------·--·- -·-·------------------~--- 2,892.48 Ga,n;t '68 ·----·--·-----·--·- ---·-----------·-------·-- 6,505.00 Bowling lwgue ------- -----·- -·-·-----·- ----·-------·-- 285.00 1 RC ______ • _________ ------. __ -------------------------- 2,185.00 Chem Club --·- -·--•---- ----·- •. -·-----·-------------·-- 1'00.00 Glo:e Club ---· -·--·-----·- -·- --------~-- ----•-- ----~- -- 1 0,52·1. 13 ·Music - Prof. Curtis ----------------------------------- 1,950.00 Studant Council ·on Arts ---·--·· -·-·---------------------- 1,500.00 Co. fee~oose ----·---- ----·--·- -·-·· ----------·---------- 75.00 Student Activities •--···--·- ··-··· -·-----·---- -------- -·-- 1,135.00 975.96 1,126.67 446.25 ~90.00 246.83 320.84 200.00 20.00 180.00 119.33 91.66 970.00 2,654.16 175.00 300.00 880.82 1,835.00 28.33 463.33 000 2,466.50 650.00 500.00 ·000 1,135.00 975.96 1,125.67 892.50 000 108.69 320.84 000 000 745.00 119.33 ?1.66 000 2,805.16 175.00 300.00 1 ;O]t0.82 1 ,835.00 000 463.33 000 2,466.50 650.00 500.00 75.00 000 $53,202.46 $16,045.68 $14,661.44 *Stutlent Council allocation includes $600 for the Student Evaluation Booklet. ·fe~U Term Winter Term Income -----··-----$15,818.00 $15,576;00 lxp.;nse -----··----- 16,045.68 14,661.44 Deficit -·--·--·------$ 227.68 $ 934.56 ~227[68 Balance for Spring Term -···------$ 706.88 A portion of the evidence that was .presented to the Student Council Monday night with resped to the :proposed increase in the Student Activities Fee was the following report, prepared by Jim Rubenstein. Third term allocations for the most part are expected to follow the pattern of the Fall and 'Winter accounts. Although Rubenstein was quick to point out that activities' requests are not honored carte blanche, he did say that he felt the 20 to 25'/o reductions necessary in most cases were not in the best interests of the activities. The item that was le.:ft as an additional balance after should not be considered unspent monEy-. It represents the only cushion available to the Tax Committee from current income. Council Hikes Tax ~. \'' ,, ·~ )) . , •• Continued from Pa~e 1 ble so long as the student activities fund had no financial elasticity. The 'l'ax Comm1ttee's recent de- cision that the athletic department had the responsibility tor tile support of intercollegiate club sports was ar- rived at partly because of the \shoe- string\ nature of Student 'l'a.x's assets. These activities are sur-viving this year with allocations from the Presi- dent's Fund, which were given with the understanding that a decision be forthcoming as to the fumUng of these activities. Greater assets V!ould natu· ally enable the Tax 0)lllll1ittee to take a more sympathetic view toward these organizations. not be incorporated into entertain- ment planning. But Rubenstein em- ,, phasized that a broader entertainment offering could only be presented when the Tax Committee had a more fav- orable financial posture. The general level of taxation at \ other institutions was reported to have been on the order of $50 per year. Rubenstein said that our present Higher Level of Enterf\<tinment $33. levy was \ridiculously inadequate, -· 1 especially in view of the services that each student has a right to expect.\ Manker Elected Continued from Page 1 Here is how the ballot works: ,., Students will rate the candidates in both parties together. If there are a total seven candidates in both major •· political parties, voters are requested to rank their preferences one to seven. Students can also vote yes or no on , five referendums, the content of which ' On Wednesday night, Cadigan show- ed filrns of his experiences to the membet\S of the International Rela· tions Club and other interested stu- dents. At that time, .students pre- sented both specific and general questions about the Peace Corps. The present nature of college-wide entertainment is also detErmined by the financial capability ()f the Tax Committee. Because it mttst under- write any losses, the Tax C()mmittee's Entertainment Chairman has had to attempt to insure mass appeal, so that critical successes which might suffer at the box office, such as last years Miriam Makeba concert, could only end to the vvar could come Orland Edward Paul Pollock. ~l~hgro~u~g~h~si~n~c~erge~ne~g~o~t~ia~t~io~n~·====~====~~~~~~~~~~~~========~========~-~·-~---~~~--r----_-_-_._- __ -_-=-~-·----·_--_-_-,-r---------------- -----~--------------------------------------, DARI TREET I REALE'S II are as yet undetErmined. (• Thur c A to T:. 29. the will sic < R:e Chti: e Was! spen hipp: aged noth: • temp some gram fort. • Se< ligic1 admi fr0m .,.;e Duril also' the 1 As Univ1 • decid and · from Semil • Th, 4:00 ed tl Norrr ' ,. Relig • • ;-. • • • • • • • • • Th1 ter E aware the L the I until pro.ie• ThE came since. Proje. Ligon partm CRl tentia use ( n Fine Spec Spc Sa 113~ RESTAURANT ,, : . YOUR CHOICE CHAR-BROIL STE~K VEAL CUTLET CHICKEN ..• $1 .50 2049 Van Vranl<en Ave. FR 7-4261 : For the finest in cameras and stereo fidelity fecrturing Nikon, Hasselblad, Leica, AR Speakers, Sony Recorders 1957 Foster Ave. FR 2-4446 LUIGI'S The PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP RESTAURANT 262 Saratoga Road MAYFAIR SHOPPI~G CENTER SPECIALI:ZING IN Italian - American Food At the Sign of the Red Neon Pipe TUES. thru SAT. 10 A.Jr\. to 6 P.M. also I 125 BARRETT ST. Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops }fear TOP BRASS tomorrow night in the 'Skeller -AvAILABLE FOR HIRE - I Schenectady Dl 6-9744 THURS. and FRI.: 7 to 9 PM Visit Our Cocktail Bar SCOTIA, f'l. Y. Phone 399-1630 there's one p;lace that does it ! • Watch Repairs • Diamonds Reset • Jewelry Repaired WORK DONE • Rings Sizeci • Engraving • Pearl & Beaod Strihging ON THE PREMI!»ES Jk'WBRY COMPAIIY 3113 State Street. Scheneotaciy I FR 4-8219 __ ( ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES for Seniors and Graduates in MECHANICAL, AERONAUTICAL, ELECTRICAL, CHEMICAL, CIVIL, MARINE, CAMPUS u INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING, PHYSICS, CHEMISTRY, METALLURGY, CERAMICS, MATHEMATICS, STATISTICS, COMPUTER SCIENCE, ENGINEERING SCIENCE, ENGINEERING MECHANICS INTERVIEWS THURSDAY, FEB. 8 Appointments should be made in advance through your College Placem ~nt Office Pratt& Whitney Aircraft OlVlS>ON 0~ UN'Tn\'CRA~T CORP, t-1 I An Equal Opportun>tv Employer SPECIALiSTS IN POWER.,. POWER FOR PROPULSION-POWER FOR AUXHIARY SYS·TEMS. CURRENT UTILIZATIONS INCLtJiiEAIRCRAFT, MISSIVES,. SPACE VEHICLES, MARINE AND INDUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS. • ~} . .... • • • • •

., 25, 1968 Thursday, Jam.Jary 25, 1968 • tee CAMPUS MISCELLANY O'Verseas Study Programs Varied •rt ',OND TERM !I,LLOCATED. 975.96 1 '125.67 892.50 000 10S.69 320.84 000 000 745,00 119.33 91.66 000 2,805.16 175.00 300.00 1 ;0]'0.82 1,835.00 000 463.33 000 2,466.50 650.00 500.00 75.00 000 $14,661.44 . 10 ~4 18 Council ctivities low the · 1uick to did say ~ not in not be l to the \\ \'' ,,, ,, ,, ., ., entertain- stein em- ,, rtainment 1ted when more fav- xation at )Qrted to ' $50 per Lr present adequate, services right to cted ' 1 ·orks: didates in ere are a )th major requested ; one to ,., ; or no on # t of which ' A group of Hippies will come to Union on Monday, January 29. Under the direction of the Rev. Donald Seaton, they (;. will present a program of mu- sic and modern dance- Rev, Seaton, Rector of the Christ Church (Episcopal) in e Washington, D. C., has been spending rr.uch time among the hippies of that city. Discour· aged at their tendency to do nothing but sit around, he at. • tempted te get them to do something creative. This pro. gram is the result of that ef- fort. • Seaton considers this a re- Iigicu3 program, although he admits it is radically different frc:>m most religious services. During the program, he will '~ also ta 1 k about his work among the Washington Hippies. As a graduate student at the University of Chicago, Seaton • decided to become a minister and subsequently graduated from the VirginJa Episcopal Seminary. • The program, to he held at 4:00 p.m. in SS 01'6, was secur- ed through the efforts of Dr. Norman Johnson, Director of . . ,o Religion· The Union College Charac- ter Research Project has been awarded a $250,000 grant by • the LiUy Endowment to extend the Lilly commitment to CRP until 1971, Dr. Ernest M. Ligon, project director, announced. • The first Lilly gift to CRP came in 1941 and has continued since. The Charat::ter Research Project began in 1935, when Dr. Iished. Previous curricular de- signs provided for two-year-olds through children at the high .school level. The project pub- lished a research journal, ''Character Potential.\ The Drama Department will be bolstered by the services of Martin Mann during the 67-68 Winter term. Mr. Mann who is concurrently associated with the Albany State Drama Depart ment, has assumed the position of Guest Director and will be responsible for Mountebanks theater preductions· He is also .teaching Drama 16, leaving Mr. Meriweather free to conduct two courses in compar. ative dramatic literature in the evening division. ~ Mr. Mann came to Albany State in 1965 after obtaining a Master's Degree in both Eng. lish and Theater at the Univer- sity of Hlinois. He has had considerable experience in both acting and directing and plans to stress the practical aspects of theater in the drama work- shop. Meuntebanks held tryouts for several short plays this week which will be presented in February under the direction of Mr. Mann. As always Mountebanks wel- comes all interested students to assist with these productions. Any so inclined should contact Jeff DeMunn in Davidson HalL :. _. Ligon was chairman .of the De- partment of Psychology, The second sitting for senior CRP researches human po- pictures for the Garnet will be tential. Recently a design for taken on Thursday and Friday, use during infancy was pub- February 1 and 2. Seniors are •F-===~==~==~~==~~================~ Mama Bianchi's Hear • Fine Italian & American Food TOP BRASS Open Sunday • Special Tues. & Thurs: • • • • Spaghetti & Meatballs with Salad and Coffee-$1.00 1135 Barrett St. Private Banquet Room tomorrow night in the 'Skeller -AVAILABLE FOR HIRE - Serving Union For 34 Years SILVER DINER of Schenectady /' ERIE BOULEVARD 6 A.M. - 11 P.M. 346-9522 Excellent Food and Informal Atmosphere , . ,, . • AL, • • de • 'IONS. • Traditional Natural Shoulder Clothing Jos. Nusbaum, Inc. 447-451 State Street Down Town Schenectady asked to sign up for an ap- pointment at Student Activities soon. The price fer this sitting is $2.00· Due to .the terms of the contract, all seniors must have their pictures taken by this photographer. Three Union College profes- sors have consented to take part in a program where they will discuss Henry Steele Com- mager's lecture on \The Col- lapse of American Foreign Policy,\ Professer Commager had voic- ed stmng opinions against Am- erican involvement in Vietnam. The Union College ;professors have indicated that they have fotind parts of Professor Com, mager's lecture objectionable. The program is entitled \Re- actions to Comrr ager-3 Views On American Foreign Policy\ and will take place in the base· ment auditorium of the Social Sciences Building, room 016, on Tuesday, January :30, at 11:30 a.m. Dean Lichterman, Dean of 8enter for Humanities and Social Sciences, Professor Sharlet, and Professor Gati, beth of the po- litical science department will all take part in the discussion. Professor Daniels wi!l he the moderator. The program will be co-sPonsored by the Interna- tional Relations Club and the Political Forum. Continued on Page 7 By IIARRY MILLER \Travel in the younger sort is a part of education-in the elder, a part of experience. He that travelleth inte a country before he had some entrance into the language, goeth to school, and not to travel.\ Ba- con may not have been thinking of Union when he said these words, but they give · accurate description of the purpose and advantage of many of the for- eign study programs available to Union students, which are advised chiefly by Prof. Allan Roberts, Prof. of French, and Prof. Theodore Schuar, Prof. of E.E. Most coveted among pro- grams of this nature is the St. Andrews Exchange. Begun in 1!134, this is a reciprocal ex- change program for students and faculty members with the University of St. Andrews, the oldest university in Scotland. Each institution generally sends one student for one year; the junior year for the Union repre- sensative. Twenty-five top stu- dents are invited to apply, but all students of the College are per- mitted to submit applications. The student is chosen as a re- Scfentia gratia artis. Orchestral music, with all its intricate tonal mosaics, is no longer the private pre- serve of the privileged. And power is one of the reasons . Power that makes large-scale outdoor concerts a real- ity; that unites the performing arts with the culture- hungry worldvia telecommunications; that reaches out to satisfy man's material needs by moving his cities as well as his mind. This is the kind of power you can create at Ebasco -power that demands engineering closely akin to art. Its tools: the most modern of technologies- nuclear engineering, composite structures, systems design and human imagination to anticipate man's needs a decade or more in the future. suit of an interview which is designed to ascertain his schol- arship, interest, extracurricular actiV:ities, social mobility, and other pertinent data. Tuition and fees at Union cover parallel expenses at St. Andrews and scholarship money is forward- ed· Kent Kraft, last year's schol- arship winner, found the pro- gram to be \a good experience\ and profited from what he call- ed \the specialized approach\ in the British academic sys- team, where facts are more highly stressed than critical ex- amination. He a1so emphasized the refreshing change from Un- ion to a co-ed institution. It is interesting to note in some of the past years St. An- drew's has not reciprocated mainly because their students cannot transfer credits earned at Union back to St. Andrews . The Eidgenossische '1 ech- nisch~ Hochschule (ETH) Ex- change, begun in 1961, is anoth- er distinctive award cited in the technical sciences. Translated as the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, located in Zur- ich, Switzerland, the ETH is one of the finest technical in- st:tutions in Europe. If you want to apply for per- mission to ,participate in the ETH Exchange you should be able to speak German fairly weH and have at least a Dean's List average. It is then avail- able to begin German in the £reshman year and possibly to spend a summer in Germany prior to entrance into ETH. Union students at ETH re- ceive free tuition at the insti- tute, but they are responsible for lodging and transportation costs. One to three students are sent each year. The ETH exchange student is Viktor Hun- gerbuhler who is studying Phy- sics. Language majors may elect to spend time abroad in prepar- ation for their degree. The organized year for French ma- jors enable a student to spend Each student is given a reading ually government subsidized. up to two terms which are U6- Iist on whose content he is re- sponsible. Tlle terms are spent at Tours, France in conjunction with the University of Poitiers. Here work is done on grammar, idioms, sentence structure, etc., and a composition assigned Continued on Page 6 If you're aiming toward a degree in Electrical, Mechanical, Civil, Metallurgical or Nuclear Engineer- ing and would like to apply your ingenuity to attaining some of man's constructive goals, why not let us tell you how you can help achieve them at Ebasco ... Engineers, Consultants and Constructors to the electric utility industry. To arrange for an on-campus interview, contact your College Placement Director or write to Mr. Fredric Jay Wade, College Relations Department, Ebasco Services Incorporated, Two Rector Street, NewYork,NewYork E BA. S C 0 10006.An Equal Op- · · portunity Employer. An Electric Bond ami Share Company 3

·.) 4 Thursday, January 25, 1968 Letters to the Editor Pu~lished ThUI'B<iuys during the. scnoo. year by the Student Body of Union Colle!l\e Schenectady, N. Y. National Advevtlslng Rept·esentative: :-:atlonal Ad~ertlslng Service, Inc.. Colle.:e Publishers Hepresentative, 420 :\ladl· son Ave .. N. Y. c. E!d!tor!al Dffice, Old Uym, C111U11 (;ul ! lege. Publication Office, Schenectatl:.v : I P1•lnting Company, 50~ Brondway. ; ~ntered in ·the .S<\!Ienec·tady l'ust 01\- i flee as Second Class :\Jail Ma'•·el'. : SuiJSt:liPtlon r5c a COI>Y; $·3 • year delive1·erl anywhPre in tl1e l\'nllf?'d Statfl's. Objector's Conscience To the Editor: Hlt'U.\H[) 1•:. l'ATTEHS~l:'-:, P. ·t•ETI·:H !IHOT:\!.\:-.: .IU!o;l, !H'IH;:--:zAHL 'liX JOSI•:-r•H •\. :II AX:-;, JR. . :-.;~:11. S. Klt,UIElt '711 JEFF BH!lW:-\E 'tl!l SE:SIOR 80&\RU JH, '7!1 ... 3H·86!4 :17:2-!l';' 3U . :r77-9430 The Concordiensis is to be thanked and commended for its prominent coverage last week of the draft counseling session held in Hale House on January 15. Your paper was correct in re- . porting my statement that, ac- .... Euitor·in·Chi~f: cording to the Selective Service Business :\lana~''' ' Act, a conscientious obJ\ector is Ru:;;in<•ss Advisor · .. gditor gir\~ritu~ : required to be opposed to par- ..... ~Ianaging Editor : tic1pation in war in any form. ... :>:'ews Edltur I I wou.d like to add and to .......... Sports Editor ' stress, however, that the draf . 3H·S6 14 3-ttJ-!J!J 73 .. 3V~'<Hl. .. GAHY PHE\.UST '69 STI,\'Io; ~·ox '70 HICHAHD BALAUl'H '6!1 <'Lli\l·' S.\F.\X~; 'fi!l ..... Ft•aturPs Editor i d ~;>«•eutive Editor : tee to ay is not being asked to ' Art\ Io~<lltur fight in World War II, (that was my problem, not his), nor in any other past war, nor in some hypothetical future war. He is hemg asked to fight in Viet- nam, and this fact must neces- sarily play ·a large part in h1s decision as to what he shall do. If he is concerned about hypo- thetical . future wars, he may legitimately ask himself if Die·!< Daniel ';o , ..... ... .... ...... ... . Photograt•hY Editor L~·n. ~lllltHl • ';'fl ASE<<wiatp Hpot·ts I 1 ;ditor '' .:ll!l<e Swirsky '70 . . .. .... ... ....... . .......... National Advet·tising lllanagc'l', Steph•n Littman '70 ......................... ..... .. ....................... Subscription Manager, Carl Go!rlsand '70.. ........................................................................ Circulation I.lanager : · Richard Lewi~ '69 ................ Local· Advertising :Manager Larry H.othhlum .. io. ______ IJtstribution )lanag~r LPn IO::agan 'ti!-1 .. F'ratE>-I!nities Editor : · i>Pni~ )lyt>l't-i ·,;~ . ....... ... ... Prflduc·tion :\ln.nager · 1 STAI<'I' llE3iBI<:R~ NI<:W~: Paul Farnham, st~''\ Wall, Bill Ouzer, Howie Htt•\\f' Colt•, Handy ~utt.t>r, Hal Hos:-:~. Bill Colut·t·L SPORTS: Henry Fein, Dan Ang<>lo, Jay Blitzman. ~uu~t·. At Gartner. ; such conflicts are not likely to 1 be again of the Vietnam type, I•'I!:ATl'RE:S: !'au! Anllrew><, AI l'oh<•n, Harry :\Iiller, Pete W<>ingold. IJ\'!'\1:\\1•~:-;H: ·llun Kt>H~lt•l', Jt>t Birn. Ho:.· Karlin, Jt>JT)' Lt>,·int'. When Will They Ever Learn? The spectre .of a Publications Board is once again~ haunting student publications at Union. Hardly have Con- cordlensis, The Idol and the Garnet had time to prove on somebody else's soil perhaps far from the United .States. It seems improbable that there would be either time or reason for drafting young civilians if the United States itself were attacked by a major nuclear power in the holocaust of a \World War III.\ Is there a conceivable war, in short, in which an objector to Vietnam could conscientiously serve? William Bristol Professor of History themselves responsible as independent student publications, \Tf t-iona ·l when it seems that a few shrill voices again call for a con-' A. I._. ., ,. trolled student press. · A little Publications Board is a dangerous thing. It too. Triumph? easily can become the avenue by which a few students or 10 the Editor: faculty members can impose their views on the campus Once again this year, Union's. through control of publications, and drown the sparks of tr~ditional ties have apparently creativity which can only burn in freedom. One can not be tnumphed and the fraternities truly creative and experimental when he knows he has to 20 ntinue to flourish. What is · the purpose of these brother- please a publications board. . hoods? Do they contribute any- h thing at all to the school itself? It seems that campus publications have, in t e recent As a freshman, one can't help past, proved themselves to be highly responsible and able to but notice the prestigious function admirably as independent publications. There have ··brothers\ at football games or been unfortunate circumstances associated with each pub- other athletic events brandish- lication, but we do not feel that they J'ustify establishing a .J\g their fraternity banners ra- ther than any symbol associ- Publications Board. Its very existence is a threat to the ating them with their college. freedom and individuality of the various campus publica- It became quite clear that their tions. Furthermore, such a board is a direct slap in the allegiance is not to Union Col- face to those who have worked hard to build the publica- lege but rather to a local chap- tions into what they are. This is clearly a vote of \no ter of a fraternity which hap- .pens to pay rent to a college confidence''. Also, we feel that if campus publications have located in Schenectady. been responsible and adequately self-operating in the past, . The alternative to joining a it is grossly unfair to assume that they will suddenly be- fraternity is almost nil. Meals d \ff · th f t at Hale House become expen- come any 1 erent m e U ure. sive, and it is an annoyance to Th th t f P bl . t' B d · 1 · d pay for each meal separately. e rea o a u Ica wns oar IS a ways raise Nothing to me is more disheart- following a journey by one of the publications into the ening than seeing an upper grey twilight zone between art and literature, and porno- class \independent'' eating at graphy. Concordiensis condemns the cheapening of any West College with all the fresh- campus publications by the inclusion of pornography. At men. Perhaps, even if these the same time, we must be careful that we do not deny annoyances are overlooked, the problem may be more directly the validity of using what may be objectionable words and related to the lack of a Student descriptions in certain contexts, when they are of liter- Union or anything to serve a ary value. Student publications are written for the student, similar function. The inde- g eared to his tastes, and should be J\udged by his standards· pendents have primitive organi- ?:ation, be it in a cultural po- of acceptability. A Publications Board is too likely to be- litical or social aspect. There- come simply an agent for standards foreign to the campus. fore, the alternative to p'edging a fraternity at Union College is There is neither need nor justification for a Publications a sorry one, and most freshmen Board on this campus. Ti~e risks inherent are, in any decide to give it a try. t t t Joining a fraternity at this even • 00 grea • school is a little like trying to It has become indeed tiring year after year to fight be elected governor of Mississi- off the assaults of the proponents of a Publications Board. ?Pi if you're a Negro. One It should be clear to all that there are very sufficient in- formal channels to handle any difficulties that may arise. ConcorJ.iensis is totally opposed to the existence.of any kind of Publications Board on this campus. We urge the All College Council at its meeting tonight to defeat any proposal to establish a Publications Board, and to finally lay this ghost to rest. Policy? Hear TOP BRASS tomorrow night in the 'Skeller . - AVAILABLE FOR HIRE- must scale the barriers of racial and religious prejudice. Is it not true that some fraternities at Union have national charters which deny membership to peo- ple of certain religious and rac- ial groups? If such bigotry ex- ists in the heart of our intel- lectual community, then let us destroy it. now! Isn't it time to ask ourselves whether or not the fraternities are part of Union College or whether Un- ion College is part of the fra- ternities?! J\7ame withheld by 1~equest Gym Gyp ·t·o th3 Erlitur: Last Thursday morning at 11 :30, after suiting up and climbing the gym's fragrant stairs for a maintenance, I was cheer- ily informed by a member of the Physical Educatio.n Depart- ment that no credit could be given during the sa1.1e hour as a convocation- Dumbfounded by the creative genius manifest- ed by this rule, 1 returned to the iocker room, dressed and my mouth still hanging open in pure amazement, left the building. The fact that such a restric- tion exists is, to say the least, ridiculous. Does the school think that by not allowing the student to take maintenance during a convocation hour that attendance will be boosted in the chapel? Or do those in power imagine that they should foster the enlightenment of the Physical Education Department by relieving it of an hour's re- sponsibility to read off a list of names. (I might just men- tion that at 11 :30 on that his- toric Thursday, several of the department's men were relax- ing in their offices rather than soaking in arty words of wis- dom). If either of these possi- bilities is the rationale for such a rule on the part of the ad- ministration, then school offic- ials are doing Union College a great disservice, first by not givipg the student credit for sufficient sense to obtain three convocation tickets on his own and, second, by assuming the re- sponsibility for the intellectual progress of its own faculty. Perhaps I have not pin- pointed the motivation for such inspired legislation on the part of our reigning bureaucracy, But then is there anyone who can give a legitimate explana- tion for insanity? Gary Abramson '69 INTRODUCING by giJ:)d?Jff(? A beautiful pin with a birthstone for each member of the family. She will cherish it forever. For Only $12•5() TIME CENTER }ewefe,., 428 STATE STREET SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK PHONE FR 4-0183 The College's declaration of policy, or lack thereof, with regard to General Hershey's clirective to local draft boat·ds is most unfortunate. It does not bode well for the future of free speech if the college, the last bastion of free expression according to President Martin, attempts to use the draft as a method .of suppressing dissent, legal or illegal. Civil laws exist to restrain those who are involved in extr11-legal activities and no one asks they be excused from any of the consequences of civil disobedience. Con- cordiensis does ask that all students be as free to express the opinion, of whatever political shade, as any other_ citi- zen who is not subject to the draft. In short, the draft should be used as a means for procuring manpower for the armed services and not to induce political conformity. Old Dutch Restaurant We ask the college to support such a policy with any and all of its power. Action now may .prevent regrets later if a student is drafted for such anti-war activities. OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK A Touch of Holland in Schenectady Excellent Food - Moderate Prices 10% DISCOUNT FOR ALL UNION STUDENTS l617 Union St. Phone 374-5770 Better Relations To the Editor : The Student Council Com- munity ~elations Committee has been assigned to several signifi- cant problems and projects. Among these is the possibility of helping the administration put Union back into the col- legiate limelight. There is also the possibility of weekly inter- collegiate mixers with transpor- tation provided; and this may involve more than seven area schools. The UpwaFd Bound Project and the Community Action Pro- gram need assistance not only financially but also with trans- portation and enthusiastic tu- tors. An annual spring bazaar could raise funds for these proj- ects as weU as those otganiza- ~ions participating while creat- Ing a large campus community festival. Better campus-community re- lations could be estabnshed through work such as a ques- tionnaire project to study the socio-economic influences be- tween the school and Schenec- tady. Such a project would d course, be supervised by those departments involved and per- haps academic credit given to those involved. The results would be published in the local papers. These are but a few of the projects which the committee may handle. In order to deal effectively with any of these .J problems, the co~nnittee must have members wh() care about Union and what it is. The work 1 may be difficult, :yet it would be a wonderful experience to work with other students, the administration, faculty, and area residents. lt is our chance as students of Union to create an imag;e of Union because we are Union. If you are inte:rested in serv- ' ing on this committee, please contact me at 346~9959 . Respeetfully, Brian .J. Izzo S. C. Community Relations Chairman UNION CALENDAA THURSDAY, JAN. 25: Peace· Corps Recruit· ing Stand, Librar.y ~obby All-College Council, 7o()0 p.m., Hale House Stu9ent Lounge. FRIDAY, JAN. 26: Peaco Corps. Recruit· ing Stand, Librar.y Leobb-y, Coffee House, AI Ziejler, Carl Rosen, stock, Tom Hord, Tony ~erk, 8o30 .p.m., Bronner House. Top Brass, 'Skeller. SATURDAY, JAN. 27: 'Fres-hmen and Var· ~ity Wrestling vs. Hobart, 2o00 p.m., Gymnasium. Glee Club Concert, Union and Mary· mount, 8:30 p.m., Memt>rla I Chapel. SUNDAY., JAN. 26: Union. f:llm Workshop, 'You Con 't Cheat an 1Honest Man,'' storrirg W. C. Fields end· Edgar Ber· gen, 7o00 and 9o00 p.m., s:s. 016. Hill ·I Brunch, 11:00 a_m. Hale House. TUESDAY, JAN. 30: Inter-residence Council, 7o00 p.m., Hale House Stuelent ·Lounge, Bennington Modern Dane\ Group, B:OO p,m ., Old Chapel. Varsity basketball vs. Stl lawrence, S:OO p.m., field House. WEDNESDAY, JAN. 31: Un io1t Film Work- shop, '!Hud, •· starring Pauf, Newman, 7:00, 9o00, S.S. 016, FRIDAY, FEB. 2: Film Series, \The Gold Rush,\ 7:00 and 9:00· p.m., S.S. 016. SATURDAY, FEB. 3: Freshnl<ln and Varsity Wrestling vs, Rochester, 2 ,JO ,p.m., Gym- nasium. Varsity Basketball vs. Klhlg's .Point, 8:00 p.m., fleid House. ' :llall~ Sale ENTIRE STOCK 10<;1o to SO<fo REDUCTIONS Open Daily Nine Thirty A.M. to Six P.M. Thursday and Friday to Nine P.M. 'I -- - - t - - ,-:=. - - • l' ~ l By p f!- Thi part ; vietn; Th1 dents t conce cause U11ite ab<Jut f.> vemeJ world qttesti of thE a ger c the s] lfc ality 1 volve1 t> g()ing tion c sar~ Umte Vietn. t begin It r t ginn it of a area. scend A ti()nal th<Jus: 939 .i main 'The • tend 1 • • Pro D()llS\ .. Cole Stai \John Sco1 • Shre'W Hel Wind' Caf~ • Banjo D'A p.m. 1 Rip V • Frida~ 'l'ri-' • Skin\ \The \Th \The • • • • • • • • • •

1968 Tltursday, Januqry 25, 1968 Viet Nam: Thousand Year Search For Peace .J \' 220 J1'rosh Pledge 5 ittee must about The work , it would erience to the and is our of Union of Union in serv- ' please 59. Izzo unity Chairman Recruit- p.mH Hale Recruit- Carl Rosen, , 8:30 .p.m., and Var- 2:00 p.m., and Mary- Chapel. By Peter Weingold, Alan Cohen and Paul Andrews f.' This is the first article of a three · · part series on the modern history of vietnam. Tpere is a small minority of stu- dents at Union College who are quite t concernect, not only about the crisis caused by the involvement of the U11ited States in Vietnam, but also ab<>ut the crisis caused by the nininvol- \ vement of Union College students in world affairs. There is a general un- qaestioning acceptance of the policies of the United States' government and a general ignorance of the facts of c the situation. If one is willing t<> accept the leg\ ality of the United States' original in- volvement in Vietnam, he is probably going to accept a further continua- *' tion of the war. It js therefore neces- sar~ to show the illegality of the Umted States' original involvement in Vietnam. Vietnamese troubles did not t begin with American interference. Strugg!e for Sovereignty It must be emphasized from the be- Workshop, Man,\ Edgar Ber- 016. House. Council, ·Lounge. 8:00 t ginning that Vietnamese history is one of a people and not a geographic area. Today's Vietnamese are de- scended from a proud and always na- ., /' . ,. ti()nalistic people who overthrew a th<Jusand years of Chinese rule in 939 A.D. They have strived to re- main a sovereign nation ever since. 'The Vietnamese were allowed to at- • tend to their own affairs by the West S:OO Film Work- Newman, \The Gold 016. and Varsity ,p.m., Gym- Point, 8:00 • AROUND TOWN Schenectady Proctor's Theater: \Valley of the D()llS\ • Colony Theater:· \The Bible\ State Theater: \Cop Out\ and \Johnny Yuma\ Scotia Art Theater: \Taming of the Shrew\ • Hellman's Theater: \Gone with the Wind\ Saratoga Cafe Lena: Billy Faer and his • Banjo D'Andreas: Sour Hour, 4:30 to 6 p.m. Friday Rip Van Dam: Happy Hour, 6-9 p.m. • Friday. Troy (Screen one) 'l'ri-City Twin Drive-In: \Sweet Skin\ \Mademoiselle Striptease\ and • \The Pink Pussycat\ (Screen two ) • • • • • • • \The Vampire,\ \The Blob\ and \The Dinosaurs\ until 1859. In that year continued Vietnamese persecution of Christian ~nissionaries led to a joint Franco- Spanish fleet .attacking and capturing Danang and Saigon. Later, French forces took complete control, and by treaty, the French established a .pro- tectorate over all of Vietnam. There has not been a unified sovereign Viet- namese nation since August 25, 1883. 'fhe Vietnamese people, however, have never forgotten freedom and · have been fighting foreign imperialism for almost 85 years. West or fn their own government. This Vietnamese elite numbered among them a Paris and Moscow edu- cated Leni11ist named Nguyen Tat Thanh, alias N~yen Ai Quoc, known today as Ho Chr Minh. These Western educated Vietnamese organized armed revolts against the French, who were never able to get rid of them~ 'l'he onset -of World War II put the whole question of the French in Viet- nam in a diffei.lent light. The French had to contend now with the insurgent Vietnamese and the attacking Jap• French troops in surplus American uniforms scout for enemy contact before Dien Bien Phu. During French rule, the fires of Vietnamese nationalism were never extinguished. French rule was harsh and cruel. Edgar Snow, in his writings about Vietnam, has documented the French killing of whole villages for stispected insurrection. It was cer- tainly not a time of enlightened rule. Alias Ho Chi Minh Perhaps the biggest mistake was th.e French failure to cope with the Dative Vietnamese intellectuals. This small group of Paris and later Viet- namese educated men were denied any place of equality either in the anese. Also, the Vietnamese revolt was no longer one of the intellecttials. True, they led, but more than lead- ing, they channeled. They channeled the hatred of their people fo:r the French. No speeches of nationalism were needed, The hatred for the foreign imperialists was total among the Vietnamese people. Vietminh Formed Out of this common hatred was formed in 1939 the \Vietminh\, a coalition of Vietnamese socialists, democrats, .md communists, all united for the freedom of Vietnam 'I Read I • • I • • • By the end of 1942 the French in Indochina were merely a puppet force controlled by the Japanese. However, they still regarded the Viet- namese as a greater threat than the Japanese. When certain French offi- cials were approached by Vietminh leaders asking for arms to use aga1nst the Japanese, they were flatly refused. The ,French said in effect, \You want arms now to use against the Japanese. But later you will use these arms against us, so nothing doing.\ On March 9, 1945 the Japanese as- sumed complete and outright control of the imperialist government of Viet- tram (as distinguished from the covert people's government of the Vietminh). The move, perhaps an attempt by the Japanese to stave off defeat, never had a chance to work. The war ended soon after the Japanese coup and Vietnam was left without a gov- ernment. The Vietminh immediately took control. Vietnam was Vietnam{)se at last. A Vietminh congress was held with- in days of the Japanese defeat, a pro- visional government was formed, and a Declaration of Independence, mod- eled after that of the United States, was issued. On August 19, 1945, this Vietminh government took complete control in Hanoi, the ancient capitol city. A government of the people~ it was even welcomed by Emperor Bao Dai, the French puppet ruler in An- nam, one of the three provinces of Vietnam. The Vietminh felt sure that the victorious allies would never take away their sovereignty. They were rudely disappointed. They were in P~wer for only a single month. The Brg Three, meeting at Potsdam, bad given all of South East Asia to the British. In Indochina, north of the 16th parallel the Chinese were given control. The Chinese promptly re~-og­ nized the Vietminh government as legitimate. The British, for reasons tha~ ~all; only be int_erpreted as im- perrahshc, chose to Ignore the Viet- minh and return southern Vietnam to the French. Organized and sponUn- eous revolts occurred throughout the country in opposition to the French presence. These developed into piteh- ed battles and finally large scale war. After almost seven years of bloody fighting the French were decisively beaten at Dien Bien Phu. Both sides agreed to negotiate at Geneva. The stage was finally set for a peace which has not yet arrived. Hear TOP BRASS tomorrow night in the 'Skeller ' The fraternity choices of 19 :fresh- men were matclle<l with bids from nine of Union's 16 f1~aternities in Hale H.ouse Wednesday afternoon. They will join their 201 previously-matched classmates in formal pledging cere- monies tonight. wednesday's bid-matching ended the hectic week-long second rush. IVIore than 50 frosh submitted prefer- ence lists. Slightly more than .half of the Class of 1971 will pledge fraternities to- night, down nearly f-ive per cent from 1967. But the total nu~nber is up 16. The total nurnbel.\\ of freshmen matched with each fraternity follows: Alpha Delta Phi, 13; Beta Theta Pi, 23; Chi Psi, 14; De Ita Chi, 17; Delta Phi, 13; Delta UI>silon, 17; Kappa Alpha, 6; Phi Delta Theta, 6; Phi Epsilon Pi, 31; Phi <famma Delta, 10; Phi Sigma Delta, 21 ;. :Phi Sigma Kap- pa, 7; Psi .Upsilon, ~; Sigma Chi, 12; Sigma Phi, 11; Theta Delta Chi, 10. Sirnp·ly Bob By CLIFFORI.l SAF ANE You folkies never- should have traded in your acoustic guitars and gone electric. Because now your guru, Bob Dylan, has gone back to his ethnic non-electric ;gu.itar. \John Wesley Har<ling\ ( Colamhia) is a very personal statement aboat life. No more anti-\i\lar protest songs like \Masters of War.'' What we now here are statements about people There are songs ao<Jtit personal dig- nity 2nd personal troubles. It is a reaching into the self. What I like about this album is its simplicity and lack of _pretentiousness. No longer does Dylan speak in gen- eralities. Dylan is now singing to people about people. There is com- munication between ti1e artist and the listener, a quality which was lacking on Dylan's last few albums. Of course, the songs' melodies are the weakest part of the album, but this is Dylan. And for those of .YOU who like surprises, Dylan even smgs on this album. Although he's no J<Jan Baez, he does have some kind ()£ voice. An album -which all Dylan fa11s must hear DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on ~oft Street -AVAIL ABLE FOR HIRE- Open Daily 1 0 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to 1 A.M • L. G. BALFOUR CO • CARL SORENSEN BADGES - RINGS - FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRA.MS CLUB PINS - KE~S MEDALS - TROPHJES Schenectady Printing Co., Inc, Write or Call fraternity Jewf:!lers 729 Soutlt Crouse Ave. Syracus~. N.Y. lJZt 0 502 Broadwcry 377-8838 Union Pharmacy 600 UNION STitEET fREE DELIVERY COLOGNES & AFTERSHAVE LOTIONS FR 4-3605 Jade East - English Leather - Bnt Old Spice- Ca-noe- That Marr, Brit·is-h Sterli-ng - Hawaiian Surf Jem~ Nate RITZ REST AU RANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featuring -HOME S1YLE ITALIAN FOODS, S1EAKS. CHOPS, SEAFOODS Caterin9 To Small & Large Pat'ties Pizza & Sandwiches at All Hours Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open Daily 11 A.M. to 3 A.M. .

6 Fraternities: Len Kagan Appointed Fraternity Editor In an effort te spur a campus dialogue between various· seg- ments of the campus on fraternities at Union this space will be devoted in future weeks to Fraternity news and a discussion of the relationship between Union and her Fraternities. We recognize the strength and weaknesses of Unions' Fraternities and hope that this column wiH lead to ,a greater dialogue between the various segments of the campus. To head the project, Concordiensis Editor Rich Patterson has appointed Len Kagan of Sigma Phi, a staff member, to be Faatern- ities Editor. Students interested in contributing to fraternity news are asked to contact Kagan, at 346-9390. B·Ball P,review Continued f1•om Page 8 Statemen's upperclass squad to eight men on December 1, the school has bee11 permitted to use freshmen on . the varsity. Three yearlings are on the squad, including starting guards 6-2 Rick Bond and 6-0 John Hershey. The frc:nrt court start- ers are 6-6 soph.omore Carmen Genovese, 6-3 junior Terry Hat- maker, and 6-3 .senior Lloyd Johns. Genovese is the team's leading scorer, with a 22-.point average, while Hatmaker is sec- ond, with. 17 points per game. Genovese was ECAC sophomore- of-the-week last week for his 47-point pe.dorrnance against Rochester Tech, which also in- cluded 22 rebounds. Foreign Study Contimied from Page 3 wee~ly. In addition students engage in audio-visual work Professor Roberts directs this p:rogram. One of the two students who has just returned from this pro- gram, Joseph Rosenthal, felt he derived a great deal from living ani! speaking with people dif- fered from himself. One sal- ient point he noted in the Un- ion program was the fact that \we were sent individually and could not depend on a gnmp of fellow students for compan- ionship. As a result, I made many French friends, and in speaking the language I was better able to appreciate the French culture.\ Mr. Rosen- fn return from a foreign in- stitution and with the approval of the Dean, a student with a 2.5 average or higher can ob- tain full credit for his work. This credit is granted provided that the student has participat- ed in a forma,! ex:hange pro- gram, or if he takes examina- tiens in three areas of study. There are also wmmer po- grams available for study abroad. Plans for such pro- grams can be discussed w]h either Prof- Roberts or Schwarz Credit allocation is determined by Dean Lockwood. There are three Union stud- ents in the London School of Economics presently under the Independent Study Program and one student in Israel. Thursday, January 25, 1968 Coffeehouse Continued from Page 2 Rosenstock's songs are those of a summer love and a lost love: deeply personal songs he sings of leaving a lover, pro· longing a relationship, or just understanding another's mind. His guitar work is good, with a strong back-up from Ziegler, and he sings well although not projecting enough occasionally. An extra added attraction was Jim Talbert, who was so excited by the opening night festivities he borrowed a guitar and ad~ Jibbed two songs. Rosenstock and Ziegler will return to perform next week -to- gether with appearances by Toni Hord, and Tony Berk. Safane hepes to expand the list of per- formers with others from the Tri-cities. Anyone interested in appearing at the \North End\ should contact Cliff Safane (377- 3252) ot Jim Talbert (346-3019). The lntercFraternity Council will sponsor two workshops for campus fraternity efficers during the remainder of the term, it was decided at a meeting held last week in the Phi Delta Theta Chapter house. David Miller, secretary of the organization, said a workshop for pledgE;l trainers will be held later this month or early in February. He said the Dean of Students at the University of Vermont is being contacted as a candidate to lead discussions. Miller added that a workship for fraternity treasurers is tenta- tively scheduled for later in the term. St· Lawrence, which is cur- rently sporting a 3-7 mark, is a stronger team than the record indicates. The Larries lost their first five games; four of them to tough teams - LeMoyne, Cortland,. Colgate, and Geneseo. Since that time 1 St. Lawrence has won three of five, beating Hobart 75-64 {nen-league), Utica College, and Clarkson 107-74 CICAC). Other defeats came at the hands of A·lfred (84-81), Norwich (103-100)', and Hamil- ton (94-93). The Garnet de- feated the latter two by s~im margins. The harries boast a starting lineup m.ade up of jun- iors 6-0 Frank Perkins and 6-1 Phil McWhorter .at guards, sen- iors 6-2 Tom S.zczechand, 6-1 David Healy at forwards, and 6~5 senior Chris :Brooks at cen- ter. McWhorter is the high point man, with a 17.5 average. Chrhis Brooks, a many-time ECAC choice, is pulling down 20 rebounds a garne. thal .recommends the program In the past there have been for, \anyone interested in many faculty exchanges with broadcasting himself-\ .James St. Andrews, ETH, and other I Barlow was the other student universities. In addi;tion many partiCipating in the program. professors have had extensive There is also a program for travel abroad. Prof. Kenneth German majors which consists L. Schick, Assoc. Prof .. of Phy- of either a summer in Germany sics, has traveled in Helland. or work done in Germany after Prof. Henry Ferguson, Assoc. graduation from Union. As yet Prof. of History, is in India.,·,: there is no specific program for Prof. Thmnras R. Hoffman, ·.· German majors. Prof. of E.E., is in Taiwan. Prof. Carl Niemeyer, Prof. of Eng- The majority of students at r h t ht t St A d d The pledge training discussions wil'l be the second in a series of individual workshops for officers this school year. In the first . a spokesman from Rutgers University spoke to rushing chairme~ aboot rushing at Union. In previoqs yea~·s, the IFC has s~t aside one night in the Spring for separate d1scuss1ons between off1cers of Union's 16 fraternities. Dav·id Cadigan, a peace Corps recruiter, briefly spoke to the IFC and .a~ked houses to invite the recruiting team here for the week to VIsit them. I~ other bu_siness, Nick Dzebolo, ch~irman of the IFC rushing committee, outlmed the rules for the fmal days of rushing. The second rush ended Wednesday_ ·------ ------------- Un ·I·on· do not qualify for these lS ' aug a · n · rews an· ' Professor Joseph Board spent programs because of the numer- time at Oxford as a Rhodes , ical and field limitation. Such Scholar. These professors can j students may apply for Inde- be of great help to interested pendent Study abroad from one students. to three terms. The procedure for application includes a form The Foreign Study Program containing information about 2t Union is an opportunity one's self and his plans, paren- which one can easily be taken tal permission, approval of . the advantage of. The experience department. head .and ~dvisor. will be worth it· His credentials are exammed by .;::==============; the Faculty Committee on For- 1 eign Students and Study Abroad, I chaired by Prof. Theodore, Schwarz. Hear TOP BRASS tor:1orrow night iLl the 'Skeller THE SPREAD-EAGLE OF TECHNOLOGY AT GRUMMAN / - AVAIL ABLE FOR HIRE- Ranges from inner to outer space Grumman has special interest for the graduating engineer and scientist seeking tll.e widest spread of technology for his skills. At Grumman, engineers are involved in deep ocean technology ... engineers see their advanced aircraft designs proven daily in the air over Vietnam, and soon ... in outer space. the Grumman lM (Lunar Module·) will land the astro- nauts on the lunar surface. Grumman, situated in Bethpage, L.I. (30 miles from N.Y.C. ), is in the cultural center of activity. Universities are close at hand for those who wish to continue their studies. C.C.N.Y., Manhattan College, New York University, Pratt Institute, Columbia University, State University at Stony Brook, Polytechnic Institute of Brook- lyn, Hofstra University and Adelphi College are all within easy distance. The surroundings are not hard to take. Five beautiful public golf courses are in Bethpage-two minutes from the plant. White sand beaches stretch for miles along the Atlantic ( 12 minutes drive). The famed sailing reaches of Long Island· .Sound are only eleven miles away. The informal atmosphere is a Grumman tradition, matched by an equally hard-nosed one of turning out some of the free world's highest performance aircraft systems and space vehicles. To name a few ••• LM-Lunar Module to land the astronauts on the lunar surface 424 Stale Efrcet Schenectady, New York BOB SIMS BSEE, Tenn. A & I, joined Bethlehem's 1965 Loop Course, is now an engineer in the Electrical Department at our Lackawanna Plant, near Buffalo, which consumes 1 billion kwh yearly, and generates about 250 million kwh. Bob works on engineering and installation of new eqmpment, and supervises maintenance. MANAGEMENT MINDED? Career prospects are better than ever at Bethlehem Steel. We need on-the-ball engineering, technical, and liberal arts graduates for the 1968 Loop Course. Pick up a copy of our booklet at your placement office. An Equal Opportuntty Employer in the Plans {or Progress Program BETHLEHEM SIEEL ~ sr EL J.,., (I --]' EA·GA Intruder- All-weather, tactical, electronic weapon system PX15-4-Man Deep Submersible Vessel to conduct undersea experiments PG (H)-57-ton Hydrofoil Seacraft Here then is the opportunity for graduating engineers. AEs, CEs, EEs, MEs, IEs, majors and Chemical Engineering majors ... to take their place in the continuum of tecb.nology that is Grumman. Grumman representatives will be ON CAMPUS. FEBRtrARY 1, 1958 To obtain Grumman literature and arrange .an interview, contact your placement office. If an interview is not convenient at this time, send comprehensive resume to: Mr. Frank A. Hurley, Administrator of College Relations, Engineering Employment, Dept. GR-251 GRUMMAN AIRCRAFT ENGINEERING CORPORATION Bethpage • Long Island • New York. 11714 An eqUal opportunity employer (M!F) ZELLMER'S NORGE LAUNDRY AND CLEANING VILLAGE AT 1§59 VAN VRANKEN AVE. (at Hattie Street) DRY CLEANING WASHERS 8 lbs. ----------- $2.00 12 Lb.------------ .25 4 lb. Min. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 1.00 20 lb. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .35 DRYERS 30 lb. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .50 1 0 Min. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .10 Ol'EN - 8 A.M:. to 10 P.i\1. 1\lon. to Fri. - Sat. 8 A.l\1. to 5 l'.l\1. 10 .o\..~1. to 6 P.l\1. Sundays IF YOU HAVE NEVER HAD NORGE DRY CLEAN:NG DONE WE CAN BET YOU WILL BE AMAZED ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS MECHANICAL ENGINEERS PHYSICISTS narden will be a:n tampus Jan. 30, 1968 (Tuesday) Graduating Electrical Engineers, Mechanical Engi- neers and Physicists are invited to discuss career opportunities in research, de:;;ign, ·dev• (opment and manufacturing In areas such -3;~, Airborne Radar Systems/Video Display Systems/Tele- communications I Precision Components I Advanced Computer Techniques I Advanced Electromechanical .Design Techniques. Norden's location in Norwalk, Connecticut is easily accessible to the entire New York metropolitan area. For convenient appointment, please make arrange- ments in advance through your Placement Office. An Equal Opportunity Employer (MIF> J i. Thursdc Dead: on Feb: for all .be sub: of the 4 placed the St1 Comple ·· 1-15 apJ sue. 16· Na r competE sport o 17. Wl versity , intercol 18. Na teams V\ in 1966- Basketb 19. Wl ' Two B Year in member , national ics, and 20. Wl ing eve1 the u.~ 21. Wl phies s Trophy, 22. Ide s~ p~ at m ~ m II B

25, 1968 2 are those a lost songs he pro- or just r's mind. ood, with Ziegler, not was excited festivities and ad~ will weekto- by Toni Safane of per- from the in rth End\ (377- an and g, a . 25 .35 .50 )' .l\1. it 0 Thursday, January\25 1968 'Sports Quiz Part Two SCOREBOARD & SCHEDULE • Deadline for the Quiz is noon on February 12, 1968. Answers for all thbty questiQns should • be submitted' to any member of the Concordy sports staff, or placed in th.e Concordy box in the Student Activities Office. Complete rules and questions •· 1-HI appeared' in last week's is- sue. 16· Name the NBA player who r competed in the Olympics in a sport other than basketball. 17. What is the college or uni- versity represented in the most , intercollegiate sports? 18. Name the two basketball teams which won championships in 1966-67 in AAU and Eastern Basketball ~eague competition. 19. Who was ECAC District ' Two Baseball Coach of the Year in 1965? Also what other member of his family achieved · national prominence in athlet- ics, and in what sport? 20. What was the first sport- ing event \breadcast on radio in the U.S.? \\ 21. What do the following tro- phies symb()lize - (A) Onyx. Trophy, (B) Root Awards. 22. Identify the following sports personalities - (A) Dave Bleau, (B) Julius Mc- Coy, (C) Jim Lewis, (D) Alec Yunevich, (E.) Jerry Metcalf . 23· Who pitched the first ·per- fect game in final round com- petition in the Little League World Series? 24. Who is the commissioner of the Atlantic Coast Football League? 25, In what year was the U.S. led to a Davis Cup by a foreign- born player? 26. What colleges sport the following nicknames - (A) Fly- ing Dutchmen, (B) Nannooks, (C) Rangers, (D) Stutemen, (E) Anteaters. 27: Name the golf course which has hosted more U.S.G.A- meets than any other. 28. What players represented Union and RPI in the 1967 North-South All-Star Lacrosse Game? Also, what Union op- ponent attackman led the North scoring. 29, In the 1967 Baseball All- Star Game, all the tuns were scored on solo home runs. What Some say we specialize in power ... power for propulsion ..• power for auxiliary systems •.•. power for aircraft, missiles and space vehicles .• I power for ~ marine and industria I applications . I • ·•. II B • lhBJ're riDhl. And wronu. is the most striking coincidence about the three home runs? W. What is the oldest golf course in North America? Mise • • • Continued from Page 3 The film workshop will pre- sent the novie, \Dead Birds,\ tomorrow in room 16 of the Social Sciences Bui!ding at 7 and 9 p.m, The 1964: movie produced by the Harva1d University-Peabody Museum Expedition of Hl61-63, an arigOJ:·ical documentary about the Grand Valley Dani, a mountairt Papuan people of West New <luinea. It focuses on Weyak, a farm- er and vvlll'rior, and on Pua, a young ·s-wineherd, following the two through the daily events of Dani life. THIS WEEK'S GA!VIES Basketball !:at rcoy, Union at Hobart (V and f) Tu.::sday: St. Lawrence at Union · Memorial Field House 8:00 Wodnesdoy, Union at Amherst ·IV and f) Wrestling Saturday: Hobart at Union Alumni G>m 2<30 .Swimming Saturday: Uhlon at W·ill.ams LAST WEEK'S RESULTS Basketball Alfred 84 Union 62' Alfred (f) 88 Union 63 Williams 61 Union 50 Union (f) 64 Williams 50 Wrestling Union 30 Dartmouth 13 Since its appearance in 1964, Swimming 72 Hobart 20 ( F I 63 Hobert 28 the filmh.as. won several awards, I Union among thern the Grand Prize .,_Uni.on in the Florence Film Festival and the Robert Flahe~r:.:ty~A~w~a~r~d~. _...!.===========~ It might be said, instead, that we specialize in peopfe, for we believe thctt people are a most important reason for our company's success. We act on that belieL We select our engineers and scientists carefully. Motivate them well. Give them the equipment and facilities only a leader canprovide. Offer them company-paid, graduate-education opportunities. Encourage them topush into fields that have not been explored before. Keep them reaching for a little bit more responsibility than they can manage. Reward them well when they do manage it. You could be one of the reasons for Pratt & Whitney Aircraft's success ... if you have a B.S., M.S. or Ph.D. in: MECHANICAL • AERONAUTICAL • ELECTRICAL • CHEMICAL • CIVIL • MARINE • INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERI~G • PHYSICS • CHEMISTRY • METALLURGY • CERAMICS • MATHEMATICS • STATISTICS • COMPUTER SCIENCE • ENGINEERING SCIENCE • ENGINEERIJolG MECHANICS. And we could be the big reason for your success. Consult your colleg~ :Placement officer-or write Mr. ':'Villiam. L. Stoner, Engineering Department, Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, East Hartford. Connecticut 06108. Pratt & Whitney ~ire raft u DIVISION OF UNITED ARAFT CORP. CONNECTICUT OPERATIONS EAST HARTFORD, CONNECTICU:r An Equal Opportunity Employer 7 Case, Sullivan High; Standings Unchanged By BOB ERIANNE T ~!lse position-round competition rallied AI Case and Charley Sulliv:m into top form as each bowler nred a 600 series ~nd led his te:un to victory last week in the Butch Classic. Team #9 de- feated ·runner-up Truclmrs 3-1 behind Case's 209, 207, 225-641!, wh'1le Moffett's Liquor Store exploded for •its season high as Sullivan found the pocket and scored 223, 203,609, good for a three point drubbing of Team :#.6. Team #9 now heads the pack with~· 4 1 ;2 point Ie~cl. over the Truckersl which rolls third place Moffett's tonigh.t in a showdown matcn. Sandy Dodge backed up Case's perfol\'mance with. 200-506, while Don Hovey's 566 paced the Truckevs. Sullivan's first sanctioned 600 was not the key 'to Mof- fett's success, as three of his teammates had 500 or better: Frank Herba. ~39-566; Bob Erianne, 217-546; and BiH Hopper, 500. Doug Vergith's 546 topped Team #6 in defeat. 1\En lVIerchant moved into a distant second place behind Case as he <:ol!nected for 237-588 and helped Cavalier's Restaurant take , three from. Team :f:t 10. Merchant's 182 average is a dozen pins shy ' of the leader's. Dick Bogue paced the losing cause with 206-527, ,, while :Ken Schroeder contributed 501 to Cavilier's romp. Gary Prevost and Tom Benedict sparked Teddy K's Tavem to a triple win over Team #5 with 221-543 and 517,. respedively. Bill Vinson prevented a sweep as he came alive with 204-5~.7. AllisQn . .. Continued from Page 8 · competing in the newly form· ed Ge~tral New York Divis· ion, w.ith RPI, Syl:'acuse, . Cortl a~ d. Colgate, and Ho· • bart· T'lle smaller schools in N~\V Y:ork State, such as Hamilton, St. Lawrence, and · Alfred< will now be coinpet· ing in the Northern New York Division. Un.ion has enjoyed two consec~tive fine seasons in lacro~se, losing just three games over that span. Two of th~ Iosses were to Hobart , by single-goal margins. At · the end of last season, the Garnet were ranked second behind Cortland in Kelso Mordll and twenty-first na· tionallr. Two seasons ago, the stickrnen led the Morrill Divisjon, and were placed seventeenth. in the nation. UnioiJ has been represented in tile season-end All-Star Game each of the last two years, all.d- Allison was the head eoach. for the North squad in 1966. THE ,PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and l'lu~meats from all over the world. 4-06 STATE ST. ICAC BB Alf:ved, sporting a 3-0 record has moved to the front in the ICAC basketball race. Alfred's 84-62' win over the Garnet last week followed previous victories over RPI and Hobart. St. Lawrence is the only other unbeaten club in the League, having triumphed in its only ICAC outing, scoring a 1()7-74 victory over Clarkson, which:;' stands 0-1 in the league. RPI: has split a pair of games, de-·; feating Hobart in triple over- 'l time, while losing to Alfred·'.: RPI has the distinct disadvan- tage <>f having to play four of its . five league games on the l'oad. Hobart, with defeats ~t the : hands of RPI and Alfred; is in the cellar with an 0-2 m~rk. Hear TOP BRASS tomorrow night in the 'Skeller -AVAILABLE FOR HIRE- 1 35 ERIE BOULEY ARD Boulevard Bowl 32 AMF Bowling Lanes Open 8 A.M. to 3 A.M. SNACK BAR ON PREMISES tet the Jage-r freely flow . Down to Louis', let us go, A u11ique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. l.ar~e parties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone fR 4-8917 4 F or ~flree Ge11e-rations.' Tho!>e Whc;J l<ilow . . . \ Have IJeen recoltlmending - HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER 11 3 U11ion Graduates in Graubart Family'• 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELR'V

• .t: ... Sports Quiz Page7 ~ Q ~ J=t ~lil-t ~Q ~0!11 tlh =E-1 E-1~ lil-tZ ~ <~ s~ ~112 k ~ ~ ·lilil ~·Eo< ~·· = <~ tr ~tl) tlb ~~ ~ES E-ttl) ~ cr. E-1 - ...__., _. ':f'. ., I ' I if.l ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ > ,; if)_ w. 8 -< 0 ·'....J \ ~ - '-' :-< if)_ :;... :,.. \ - \\' ·~ z~ liolM ~ 0 00. ~ ~ H ::!1 cr. ~ ~ - '-' \ '\\\' 00 0 Con~ordy Sports Overseas Page 3 Hoopsters Fall To Williams; Larries Invade Tuesday By LEN SIMON The Union basketball team lost two games mainly for lack of shooting prowess as their record dropped to 3-7. Tuesday they fell 61-50 to an outstanding Williams team which now stands at 8-1 for the season in a game featuring the most de- liberate attack Union has used all season. Last Saturday they were trounced by a pressing Alfred squad 84-62, as the hosts upped their record to 6-6· They travel to Hobart this Saturday, · then host St. Lawrence Tuesday, and journey to Amherst the next night. Williams came in with a high scoring team featuring great rebounding and outside shoot- ing. Outstanding individuals for the Ephmen through the . season had been 6-7 Bill Un- tereker, 6-4 Bill Drummond, and 6-3 guard Jay Healy. To counteract this strength, coach Chris Schmid decided to have the Garnet slow it down and wait for an excellent shot. They did this, but failed to sink enough shots to come through with the upset. The first half saw a balanced Union scoring attack keep the Garnet within two or four points through most of the per- iod, but a late Williams rally left the intermission tally at 29-22. Jeff Kirkpatrick did an excellent job on Healy, and hit four out of four from the field to keep the Garnet close. Also the strong rebounding of Fitz Turner counteracted the super· ior height of the Ephmen. play, but nine straight foul shots by Alfred sewed up the victory. N eidel and Carlso.n, with 16 and 14 led Union, while Stan Zam- koff's 24 points led the winners. Mike Johnston broke an Alfred record with 11 assists, and Mike Doviak hit 6 for 6 from the field, scored 14, and made ECAC Weekly Team for his effort. Statesmen Next Sy GARY P:REVOST With the tougllest portion of their schedule behind them, the 3-7 Garnet five hegins a series of games which they must win to .salvage a respectable season. Two of this week's three games are ICAC contests, where the Garnet currently hold a 0·1 mark. On Saturday, the cagers play an inconsistent Hobart five, which is currently sport- ing a 4-4 mark. Hobart opened its season with a one-point win over Brockport, but then lost two of three games in its own Christmas tourney. A 64-63 loss to Geneseo State and a 75-64 loss to previously winless St. Lawrence preceded a 79-78 up- set win over Alfred. The States- men have continued their un- predictability since the tourna- ment, with victories over strong Hartwick (76-73) and Rochester Tech ( 109-84) sandwiched around ICAC losses to Alfred (105-71) and RPI (63-62 in 3 OT's}. Due to injury and academic problerr.s which limited the Continued on Page 6 Editors Allison L· X Prexy Bruce Allison ltaB been elected President of the Un· · ited States Lacrosse Coaches' Association. The election, which came at the associa- · tion's national C()n:vention last weekend, foll()W~ Alli- son's appointment to the La- crosse Rules Committee of the NCAA. He will assume the · latter post on SepteJnber 1, · beginning a four-year term · on the six-man body, while his presidency of the USLCA · begins immediately, In his position as Presi- dent, Allison will be con- cerned with restructuring executive committees, boost- . ing membership, and setting up details for the next na- tional convention_ The Coaches' Association .is a ser· · · vice organization which is open to all coaches .and of· ficials, high scho<>J: and col· lege. The associati'm pro· motes the sport, through clinics and films. In an effort t() make the sport more popular, the re- gional divisions have been re-organized. Union will be Continued on Page 7 --------~------------- Dartmouth Decimated; Grapplers Home ,saturday A ten~day layoff seemed to have little effect on the Garnet wrestlers yesterday, as they eas- ily defeated Dartmouth 30-13 here in the Alumni Gym- The matmen are now 3-0 for the year, and seem well ori the way to another outstanding seas()n. Ron Ruhl got the Garnet:s first pin as he took his 115 Dartmou_i;h opponent in 2:32. Ron made it look easy in tbe second period, when he execut- ed the .pin only 32 seconds after the referee's whistle. It took Bill Munno a little longer, but he likewise won his 123 match by a pin, putting his foe away in 3:52. Frank D'Antuono, wllose shoulder is still taped, <Juce again rulled out a close d.ecis· ion. He won his ISO match by a 3-1 score. Trailin~ 1-0 going into the third and final period, Frank t()ok the contest with a crucial escape followed by a takedo-wa. Ron Iannotti then pinned b.is 137 Dartmouth op- ponent in the season-low time of thirty seconds. Ron scored a quic:k takedown, and before his foe could recover, he had been pin.ned~ Tom \Tripp electrified the crowd, as he scored a near-pin in the. :OJlening seconds of his 145 matd1. Although Tom was unable ·to actQally pin his man, he easilY\ won the contest, roll- ing up a 13-3 victory . Turn for the Worse Garnet fortunes took a slight turn f{)r- the worse, as the Dartmouth grapplers took the 152 an<l 160 contests from the Garnet_ Jeff Knetzer suffered the first .pin of a Union grap- pler tllis season in the 152 class, hlling in 4:40· Lee Frye, who had scored pins at lower weight e1asses in his previous two matc:hes this year, could not hold off :his 160 foe, and lost a 7-4 deCision. Garnet Mermen Romp; Face Williams Saturday Naysin Simon repeatedly had Dick Corrigan won the 200 ~a:rd his 167 ·OJlponent close to a pin, individual medley, while Hoben but col!ld not put him away. picked up another 5 points f()r Simon posted an easy 18·0 vic- By JAY BLITZMAN At Foote Pool this ;past Sat- urday, the Garnet ·sc[)red at:- other convincing double tri- umph, at the expense of Ho- bart. The varsity was paced by co-captain Dick Amesburr, who won the 500 yard and the 200 yard free-style, lead:ing Un- ion to a 72-20 win. Swimming the 1,000 yard event for the first time in a meet was Tom Flynn, whose winning time was 12:45.7- Ken .Hoben picked up a first in the 50 yard free-style, shaving his time to 24 seconds_ his win in the 100 yard free- t ., · h · 1 t 1 Add . t th f. t 1 · ory, WJ1l<: me uded to six min- s y e. mg o e rrs ·~ i\Ce . t f -d· t' . h . finishers were Fred Fagifl· in · u es o n mg Ime m t e eight- the 200 yard backstroke, ·liar-\· minute .c()ntest. vey Richmond in the dive, and Steve W erlin in the fly. Wer· lin's time of 2:24.3 was a six· second improvement over his performance last week against Norwich_ The Garnet 400 yard Medley relay of Dave Seward, Sieve Werlin, Fred Fagel and Norm Dovberg won in 4:12.2, and the 400 yard relay team of WeTltn, Corrigan, Hoben, and Amesbury triumphed in 3:40.8. Ken M:erz easily won his 177 match, br-eaking open a tied con- test in the third period to score an 11-5 victory. Barry Corriw~)l had a tough going, es- pecially in the final period, but hung on to score a thrilling 4-3 win. }!'rank Fusick suffered a pin in llis heavyweight match, falling in 7:02. The second half featured the hot shooting of Bill N eidel as he tossed in 19 of his 21 points for the night, including the first 13 Union scored after in- termission. The pace stayed slow and the margin got to within two points at three times during the half, but a spurt by the visitors pushed them to their first substantial lead of the sec- ond half, 42-36. From that point on the Garnet cause was nearly hopeless, as they fell further behind trying to speed · up, and Untereker found the range on his jumper, as he took scoring honors for the win- ners with 16. Drummond was next with 12- Kirkpatrick was second for Union with 13, as the Dutchmen hit on 21 of 60 from the field, as compared with 24 of 48 for Williams. Un- ion took the rebounding battle 48-47. Craig Carlson contributed an outstanding floor game to the effort. Player of the Week The frosh meet against H:o- bart was a replay of last week's trouncing of Norwich. The final score was 63-28, as Ewt Yankiver won two first places and swam in a wmning relay, as did John Horwath, who is ap. parently over the effects of the flu. The 200 yard medley re1ay produced a Union College Jl()Ol record, as the Garnet quartet of Bob Szatrowski, John and Mike Horwath and lVLike Gow won in the time of 1:50.9· New Addition Dartrr.e>uth, a new addition to the Gamet wrestling schedule, now stan<ls at 1-3 on the year, having '!>eaten Amherst, while losing a~so to tough Springfield and Br()vvn squads. The Garnet will ne:xt meet the Hobart grap- plers Saturday here in the Alum- ni Gym, with the matches get- ting under way at 2:30. Alfred successfully pressed Union, as Wesleyan had done one game earlier. Numerous turnovers, combined with cold shooting staked Alfred to a 25 point halftime lead. The hosts jumped to an 8-2 advantage, and gradually widened it to 20-10 at about the midway point of the first half. The Garnet con- tinued their cold offense which never scored four points in a row, and allowed AlfrE)d to build to a 47-22 halftime lead, which they attacked throughout the second half on the strength of Craig Carlson and Bill Nei- del. The closest the visitors got was 10 with seven minutes· to Bill Neidel DAMBROSE CLEANERS SHIRTS 23c - SUITS 1.00 - PANTS SOc Student Discount on All Dry Cleaning 1517 Van Vranken Avenue FR 4-5193 DEWITT'S :~ Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages 118- 120 JAY STREET .I The Garnet cagers have lost tlrree consecutive games, but the blame cannot he placed on junior co-captain :Bill NeideL .ntter a mid-season slump, Nei- del played fine games against Wesleyan, Alfred, and Wil- liams. Bill hit a team season high of 26 points ill a thirty 11.1nute effort against the Car- dinals, hitting twelve of nine- teen shots from the fl[)or, and a.so r,ul!ing down t-welve re- bcunds. At Alfred, be ignited a .second-ha:f rally with four- teE-n points in a twelve-minute l e:riod. He capped the week w_tll a fantastic second-half ef- fort against the Ephmen. Hit- t.ng eight of eleven shots from the f.oor and three for three from the foul line, Neidel scor~ cd n~neteen oi the Garnet's first twenty points in the second half before he was removed in a desperation effort to press Wil- liams. FERRO PHARMACY 575 Noft Street Schenectady, N, Y. FR 7-051() FOUNTAIN SERIIICE One block from IJr()wnell Gate Hear TOP B RA·s S tomorrow night in the 'Skeller · -AVAILABLE FOR. HIRE - The next two eventg were won by Yankiver and John Ror- wath, the 200 yard and 50 ~a:rd free-style, respectively. The rest of the afternoon was a mere formality. Szatrowski turned in a Union pool record in the fly, at the :frosh distance of i()O yards in 59.4. Jim Newton re• peated his 100 yard free-style win of last week. Bruce Garber, who joined Newton in the tri· umphant 200 yard free relay, edged Mike Horwath in the 2()0 yard individual medley. Rollnd- irtg out t~e afternoon for the undefeated Garnet were victor- ies in the 400 yard free style by Yankiver and in the 1()0 yard breast by John Horwatll. Neillel ECAC Star Bill Neidel has been nam- ed t() a forward spot on the weekly ECAC Division III tea. Neidel was selected for his o'Utstanding play in Gar· net l<Jsses to Wesleyan and Alfred la~t week. The 6-5 junior .scored a total of 42 points iJI the two ball games, and p11lled down 20 rebounds. Garnet opponent Mike Do- viak ()f Alfred was also se· lected at a forward position, partly on the strength of his 14-point performance against the Dutcltmen. '71 Hoopsters Impress, 64-50 By DAN ANGELO The freshman basketball team put ()l! th.eir best exhibition cl the season as they dumped Williams 64-50 'r:uesday night to up their record to 2-3. They travel to Robart this Sattt:rday in hopes of eveninJ tlleir slate. . Hustle and rebounding were the ke:y to coach Gary Brown'• team. Off a slow start they- fo11nd themselves behind 13-10 in th·! early going as their shooting from the outside was lackluster. Ho~ · ever the r~bounding and inside shooting of Bob Berger, .along the long distance accuracy of Barry Fitzgel'ald combined to rally th•! Garnet frosh into a slim lead late in the first half. Berger conceded three inches to the visiting center, but nevertheless pulled down · llis share of rebounds, and .did a good job of getting away centage shots from around the hoop. At the half it was Union 32. · Williams 25. Another sluggish start J>.y ihe Garnet yearlings allowed the Eph· men to pull to within tl:rree lllidway through the second half. Only ball control exhibition by Dave Shames, a11d some good shooting b~ Shames a11d Fitzgerald staked the frosh to their final margin of 64·50. Fitzgerald led the scoring with 22, followed by Berger with 16 and Sllames with 12. Last Saturday the Garnet frosh dropped an 88-63 decision to . ___ ___._..__....._ ___ ___;,• Alfred. Fitzgerald had 13 and Shames 11 in tile losing effort. · Cc Vol. 97-1 Pre Rec Meml::1 during the munication Accor1 experiment ulty. Certa talks abou school fac1 the college tl1e second! The ,progr: Pearson an1 dents Charl1 in Philadelpl cants to UJ the applicar tory teacher hers. He lat1 applicants fr at the Phila1 gave a talk 1 Pearson a faculty trips, has .been S€ At the end of the prog determine if ed or elimi The new the recent i operation ir addition to gatherings f1 held over C bers of the ducting int student foldE is \indicatiVE on the part to bring a11 good applica The facult in additi()n t Bennett, As1 nomics; Carl English; Mic Professor of son, Associa· Frank Gado English; Fre of German; ciate Profess erts, Profess< Sven Peters< phy; Joseph litical Scienc tor in Classi1 tant Profess James Unde: litical Scien< Assistant Pr ence. Although : terest from the faculty v; the program tainly a mm Both Dean C tic about th1 which have faculty invol vard, Bo,vdo Ca'l Clare <tra' Psychology aJ Theory of types of beh~ received nati in Cavalier : The tb:eorJ Harvard Bus seven ievels provides \fn and behavio teen years in has caused < the academic One revie1 either one 1 malarkey or breakthroug~ which.\ Prefacing Graves theor; article fr()m 1 \If you've di out of life a1 You have to last someom easy -to-under1 to explain e1 Cavalier fu fesses swpri theory is ge signed himse life at Union Graves· sai1 that \he is C• character on

