\A Causa Persa Parole Assai\ V For Defeat? Page 3 Founded at Union Col/epe 1877 \) ~------------~------------------------------------------------------------------------=0~--------------~---------------------------------------------- Vol. 98 No. 2 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., OCTOBER 1, 1968 PRICE TWENTY CENTS lacrosse) to keep coaches In in the cruits start 1', l\ \ J t ;'' - '.!l '!I l \ '. I of .a period likely a n. team last ~:~ went to in the to coach very good , <!.> like cross the Ketz depth last , .fr 1 •• 1 ry to us, a ..•. :;j:' ball victory · ff:· . · us since ·~ . ~ , i\j , .-., .. , by Allison, ,/f was 10-0 !'¢..fo again. .if takes ~J 11. .\ f: .,,~:~ Y,'t , . . ' ~~ r . . 1':. I . .' ... Ill Photo by Rich Kramer This high school senior displays her mind by working with a slide rule. She may become eligible to apply to Union's Class of '73. ~.J ·. l )• . Student Poll Due on Co-Ed Alumni Generally Favor Plan by Steve Heller The final decision concerning co-education at Union lies in the hands of the noard of Trustees, whose action ~ is awaiting a student poll soon to be conducted. Professor Carl Niemeyer, Chairman of the Committee on Co-education, is '· \strongly in favor of co-education at Union College.\ Dr. Niemeyer supports his position In the committee's opinion, based on these statistics, the future of Union looks bleak unless co-education is introduced. Every student will be given a questionnaire designed by the committee to evaluate student opinion. Through the poll the students will be able to express their feelings on whether they are opposed to, support, or are neutral in respect to co-education. A poll sampled from Union alumni resulted in a \generally favorable\ reaction to co-education at their ahna mater. Martin Emphasizes Strong Possibility Of Having Co-Eds Admitted to Union by Michael D. Crowley President Harold C. Martin emphasized the strong possibility of having co-education at Union in his address at the opening convocation in Memorial Chapel this morning. After verifying the Faculty's unanimous vote on the pfoposal, Dr. Martin stated: \The fact that the Faculty voted with such unanimity will carry weight, and should. But the Trustees will be very attentive as well to the straw poll now to be taken among students.\ Student voice in determining an administrative policy has finally been acknowledged by placing such importance on the student body vote. The admission of women could have marked effects on Union's future; Dr. Martin asked, therefore, that all students discuss the proposal among themselves before reaching their decision. Comp Ed Goals Re-Explained President Martin also explained the Administration's position on the Vienna Trip Offered In Spring by Ken Golden Union College will sponsor an academic program for the spring term in Austria at a special branch of Union College in Vienna. The ten week program is designed primarily, though not exclusively, for juniors and will carry the same credit as a term spent at Union. Twenty-five to thirty students can be accommodated for the project which will last from March 25 to June 6. Each student will study three courses including an appropriate level course in German and a course in the history of art whicl). will be taught in the various Viennese museums. The courses will be in German and taught by native Austrian instructors. A third course will be an independent study project in which the student will choose a subject of special interest to him and prepare a term paper. This course is available because much can be gained talking to and working with the Austrians and soliciting information from historical and cultural sites. The program will cost around $1,200, approximately the same amount spent for one term at Union. Professor Klemm Professor Frederick A. Klemm, Chairman of the Department of Modern Languages and Director of the project, will accompany the students and assist them in meeting and working with the Austrian people and in doing independent research. Comprehensive Education Program. Dr. Martin stated the necessity for the Comprehensive Education program arises from today's technological society with its increasing specialization which dictates that college curricula be divided into separate departments. The divisions produce a need for a general education, an integration of departmental education. Union's answer to this problem is the Cemp. Ed. Program, which provides an opportunity for students to use content and methods not utilized by the individual disciplines. The reaction of the so-called \activists\ against the Junior Projects course bothered Dr. Martin. He thought these students would welcome the opportunity to become involved in contemporary social problems. The purpose of Comp Ed, according to Dr. Martin, is to \produce the wider spirit of inquiry and testing of values\ that each studt:nt deserves to experience while at Union. Comp Ed has by no means been all good, but neither has it been worthless; given time, the program can develop into one of significant educational importance, Dr. Martin said. Dr. Martin asks that Union students give the program time. President Martin then noted the scarcity at Union of black students and students from underpriviledged backgrounds. Despite the scarcity of Negroes, Union had the highest percentage of black students of all colleges and universities in the area, he said. He also stated that capable , candidates from rural regions are few in number, but the admissions officers accept many more \academic risk\ students than the other schools in Union's category. ...,. . with the following points, many of which are found in the committee's report: L Based on studies at various other colleges, it appears that women ~ tend to dominate the arts and humanities, while men dominate the sciences. \The addition of women would improve the arts and humanities Super Student Council? Also included in the program are stops in Hamburg, Berlin, Munich and a weekend in Budapest. Support Single Body Government Finally, Dr. Martin touched upon the state of student government bodies. He said the All-College Council, Inter-Fraternity Council, Inter-Residence Council, and All-College Curriculum Council could better be integrated into a single body, stating: \Decision is being sacrificed to discussion.\ '·· .. Ill curriculum at Union\ even though the addition of 400 women would not seriously alter the curricular make-up 4lo of the College. 2. \It is simply a matter of do or die\. Recent figures have shown that a mere 3.3% of male high schbol o students polled \would chose a small male liberal arts college.\ by Alan Mell A proposal to recognize student government, by creating one super-Student Council, replacing the present Council, the UIC, IFC and other student bodies, is in the offing this year. Stu Rubin, Head Resident Advisor of Davidson, presented this plan to a pre-Orientation Week student-faculty Students, Faculty Discuss Issues by Alan Cohen Fifteen concerned students and 16 faculty members recently met with t1 President Martin for two days at his Rensselaerville farm. The general topics of discussion were the college environment, governance, and <!o curriculum. Although no major decisions were· made, many important changes were discussed. \ One dispute centered around the kind of environment most desirable at Union. Some students thought taking measures to accept more ·) iisadvantaged and Black students would bring greater diversity of background and opinion to the • classroom and the community. When someone raised the fear that major changes might cause alumni to reduce their financial contributions, Ci! President Martin responded that \You never make a decision about the curriculum of a college on the basis of how much money someone may give you.\ Such changes involved co-education and the elimination of intercollegiate football. The impotence of student council on important issues brought out an alternative plan for student government in which the UIC, IFC, and student council would be combined into a central body where representation would be by living units. Major issues would be decided by referendum. A major argument broke out between President Martin and several students concerning the student's sexual conduct on campus. While these students thought they alone should determine their sexual conduct, the President emphasized that the college has the right and the duty to prevent fornication in college-owned buildings. conference. The reaction of most 01 those present was favorable, but no moves to implement it were discussed. The plan called for a revamping of the system now used to elect representatives. Students would vote for representatives from their living units, instead of from their class. According to Rubin, living unit representatives will have a real constituency, something which class representatives lack. Rubin hopes students will find it easier than now to express their opinion ~hrough the men they elect. An Executive Council would be chosen by the new Student Council from their own ranks. This body would, in turn, appoint committees, whose functions would be clearly defined. Committee members are to be selected from the student body, rather than the Student Council, in order to create greater student participation in their own government. Major issues coming before committees will be sent to the Student Council. Members of the Student Council would then draw up a referendum, which they would present to their living units for a vote. After an explanation of the issues involved, students would vote by living units, where participation is expected to be greater than it presently is when school-wide votes are taken. The representatives would then return to the Student Council with the exact tally of the votes. If the Viennese experiment is successful, plan may be made for similar programs in major cities in England, France and Spain. freshmen Demand freedom At Flagpole Beanie-Burning The '\death of the freshman class\ and its joining with the community, an undefined group at Union, was proclaimed Sunday night when 40 students, about half of them frosh, gathered at the college flagpole for a demonstration and burning of freshmen beanies. Freshman Don Bosch of Garden City, Long Island, read to a crowd of freshmen and upperclassmen a statement declaring \our freedom from repression at Union College is asserted through this demonstration of unity with upperclassmen.\ The gathering was organized by a group calling themselves The Community. The appeal for unity stated the rules of the college force the separation of students, especially freshmen. The latter must eat together, wear beanies together, and until this year lived in the same dormitories. One of about 20 freshmen denounces class distinction in Sunday's beanie-burning.

Publlsht'd Tuesdav and Frlliuy dur- ing tht' s1.:houl \'t:'clf by tht• Stu~lt>nt Body of Union Collt~gt>, Scht:'nt.•c:tudy. N.Y. Nattonol Advertising Rt>.pre- sentattve: N atton~l Educut·tonul Adverttstng SE>rvu:~. Inc •• Culle-~e Puhlisht>r!-. Rt>I,resentdtl\ E>, JbO Lt>xtngton AvPnuP, N. Y. C. Ed1tor1al Offlce, Old Gym, Union Cclllege. PubltcatlDn Office. White· hurst Prtnllng & Bmding Co .. Inc .. 416-418 Fifth Ave •. Trov. 235-4450. Entered in the> Schenectady Post Offlc.- as Second Clt~ ss Mat! Matter. Subbcrtptlon 20¢ a cupy; $6 a year dt>ltver~d dnywhE\r€' 1n theo United Stat£:>s. SENIOR BOARD D. Peter Drotman '69 ................................ Co-Editor in Chief Jeffrey C. Browne '69 ............................... Co-Editor in Chief Richard Lewis '70 .................................... Business Manager William Ouzer '71 ..................................... Managing Editor Allen Gartner '71 .......................................... News Editor Paul Andrews '71 ....................................... Features Editor Leonard Simon 70 ...................................... Sports Editor Paul Farnham '70 ..................................... Associate Editor Allen Klien '69 ............................................ Copy Editor JUNIOR BOARD Rkhard Kramer '71 ................................ Photography Editor Michael Swirsky '70 ....................... National Advertising Manager Jon Brunswick '70 ................................. DistributionDirector Carl Goldsand-'70 .................................. Circulation Manager Larry Roth blum '70 .............................. Subscription Manager Jerry Levine '71 .............................. Local Advertising Manager Jeff Birn '7 I ...... , .......................... Local Advertising Manager What Lies Ahead? The 1968-9 season of activism in the midst of apathy officially opened this morning with President Martin's remarks at the convocation of Union students and faculty. Partly a history of progress and change, and partly the !radiational pep rally, the speech was geared to the topic of revolution on this campus. It included a warning to activists to keep. it cool. The address was strikingly shy of specific proposals regarding the future of Union and even the ones included, such as that calling for more foreign and disadvantaged students, seemed to still be the product of mixed emotions. The only really concrete suggestion of what lies ahead for Union, aside from improvements on the physical plant, !s co-education, which is still left up to the students and the trustees. We see a reason for the cautious avoidance of specific issues by the President other than the mere withholding of information. He seems to be concerned about what lies ahead immediately. The subtly revealed theme of the talk was centered around the distinction between accomplishing goals of the college con munity through integration and through confrontation. The address indicated a revolution is overdue at Union. But it was an invitation for students to join the revolution, not to fight it; to become integrated with the faculty and administration in the futme rather than to confront them. The essence of Dr. Martin's address calls for student invelvement on faculty committees not to mention on the student's own committees. The dilemma that remains to be determined is whether the faculty and administration are willing to meet students half-way concerning what lies ahead for Union, and perhaps more importantly, vice versa. What lies ahead for Union in the short run, then may be a long-awaited creative energy exchange with the potential to keep lines of communication open in the future among all the segments of the college community. Thus, what lies ahead in the short run very well may come at the expense of frustration for cam,>us activists, uncertainty for moderates, anxiety for comervatives, and disappointment for the President himself. But it may awaken the apathetic. Perhaps it is well worth it. Misogyny Union (un 'yun) I. Act or instance of uniting two or more things into one; state of being so united;junction; coalition; combination. 2. A spiritual uniting to bring about concord; also, the unity so produced. So says Merriam-Webster. Union has not lived up to her name for a long time. For an untold number of parlances in the past, faculty committees have recommended that women be admitted to this fine institution. All, obviously, have failed. However, in this instance the Committee is armed with a weapon none of the other committees have had, compelling statistics. A look at the facts from virtually any point of view reveals the same stunning conclusion: Union will become co-ed, or Union will become exclusive and will deal with a dwindling number of applicants who desire a highly scientific, specialized and expensive kind of education. The issue we wish to raise here is not one that concerns a negative alternative, but what we consider a positive one. The seven day (as opposed to two day) per week presence of women on the campus will create, if not a more organic, dynamic, sensitive and diverse atmosphere, then at least a more healthful one. The present atmosphere here, we feel, was very aptly characterized last spring by a visitor from nearby Bennington College who stated: \I was invited here because I am an artist· and to participate in the art show. I am interested in art; the boys here are not. They only want to socialize.\ Concordiensis · fully agrees with the faculty committee's \opinion that a more normal kind of relationship between the sexes, based on a range of shared experiences broader than an hour of deafening rock and a communally broached keg of beer, can only be beneficial.\· Because Concordiensis is concerned about Union's retention of not only its present status, but also its viability, we endorse the recommendations of the faculty committee and urge all · students to demonstrate their concern by similarly supporting the Union of the future, not the Union of the present. Union wa.s one of the first colleges in the world to tolerate all religions. Let us not allow Union to be one of the last to discriminate on the basis of sex. Nott Sc,hoilars Honored In Convocatio~n P·roces~s:ion Union's Nott Scholars, forty-nine men with an average of 3.67 for the past academic year, were honored at today's opening convocation. This year is the twelfth listing of Nott Scholars and is jointly sponsored by Union's chapters of Phi Betta Kappa and Sigma Xi honorary societies. Seniors honored were: Bruce Martin Northrup, English; Bruce L. Westby, history; Nicholas Cava, English; Kenneth N. Goldman, science; Donald B. lETTER Dear Editor: Several years ago, The New Republic published an editorial dealing with racialism in American politics and the diffusion .of its ideas into the realm of the acceptable. The most prominent example of this is the adoption of the social security concept. Originally considered a dangerously subversive position to hold at the turn of the century, it became an accepted liberal tenet by 1935. A similar analogy can be drawn concerning today's world situation. As recently as 1965, anyone expressing alarm at the diiection of our policy in Vietnam was pre-emptorily dismissed as a wide-eyed anarchist. However, the last three years have seen dissent over Vietnam pass from an isolated phenomenon into a general feeling of rage and impotence on the part of the American people. In New York State, the voter is now actually being given a chance to express his opinions on the war despite the crude, l:>rutal and inept attempts at suppression by the political machines. Paul O'Dwyer, an underdog in a field of three, scored a surprising victory in last June's primary race. Fighting an uphill battle against incumbent Jacob Javits may be one of the toughest batteles of his life. In an effort to broaden his popular base of support, O'Dwyer's campaign has attempted (sic) to shed any taint of \Boss-control\. The organizing effort has attempted to find a base of support that cuts across any rigid party lines. Sincerely yours, Kenneth Allen Becker, history; Abbott L. Stillmen, liberal arts; Eric S. Strauss, psychology; Mark T. Messe, pre-med; David VI. Best, physics. Also Stuart Rubin, political science; John I. Gerson, science; Charles J. Hogan, history; Laurance J. Suter, physics; Gregory S. Oneglia, economics; John C. Anes, pre-med; Peter R. VanLund, electrical engineering and psychology; Peter A. Kerr, liberal arts and civil engineering; and Anthony Richard Susko, mathematics. Junior Nott Scholars are: Paul A. Beals, English; Eugene V. Kokot, political science; Steven J. Nussbaum, pre-med; Robert W. Ackley, math.ematics; Arnold M. Drogen, liberal arts; David J. Filman, biology; Mark A. Bornfield, arts; RG>nald A. Wendoloski, mathematics; Paul G. Farnham, economics; Roderic R. G.reene, science; Ch.arles B. Werthman, liberal arts. DEAN'S BOX SCORE: 1967-68 CLASS '71 '70 '69 '68 CLASS '71 '70 '69 '68 DEAN'S LIST 111 92 105 103 FLUNKED OUT 27 6 5 2 THE PEAN'UT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeats from all over the world. 406 STATE ST. Traditional Natural Shoulder Clothing - . Jos. Nusbaum, Inc. A47 -451 State Street Our 6lst Year :in Downtown Schenectady R o ry 0 '·Dw y e r Here Friday Rol'y O'Dwyer, son of the De m o c rat i c Senator i a I Candida1e, Paul O'Dwyer, will speak in front of Schaffer Library, at 12:30 Friday, October 14. Mr. O'Dwyer will discuss his father's campaign and the ways. in which Union College studen.ts may aid it. An)' students interested in working for Mr. O'Dwyer's election may contact Ed Rundell, the County Co·orclinator of Young Citizens for O'Dwyer, at 346-9895. In case of inclement weather, Mr. 0 'Dwyer will speak in SS 016. The Association of College Unions lnterrutional, Region 2, has e stablislied ~n inform a tiona! exchange .program for entertainers and lecturers from the member schools:. This is an attempt to take advantage of the campus talent for school programs and als8 to enable student entertainers and groups to appear on the programs of other colleges. Forms may be obtained at the Student Activities Oftice· for listing ..vith the Association. ••••••• ! Anyone interested in obtaining Union calendar-blotters or copies of the ldOtl may pick them up at the Student Activities Office. ....... All tnnsfer students should report to the Sitrtdent Activities Office to fill out confidential statements. ••••••• Students intere!.1:ed in working as Big Brothers in the Schenectady area should JTieet Monday, October 7, in ss 016. Acme Barber Shop 509 Union Street Experienced Barbers Nearest to Union College Students Manker Preview by Joe Schwartz \If Union fails because of innovation, that's too ba(\. But if Union fails because it refuses to innovate, that's a dis<~.ster.\ With these words, Student Council President Rusty Manker outlined the Council's plans for the coming year. The greatest task facing the Council this year is the lack of underprivHedged and black students on campus, Manker said. Because many of these students need financial aid, Manker suggested starting a special scholarship fund using money raised by special concerts and speakers. Other problems facing the Council are co-education, \fredom of the press\ as it relates to Union's three publications, and adjusting to college calendar so that it coincides better with other schools' calendars. Also on the agenda are the changing so cia! rules, the physical education system, and the formation of an \Academic Honor Code\. With an office on the second floor of Old Gym Hall, officers of the Council will be available every night to listen to student ideas, questions and complaints. The Council also plans to publish a list of its members and a schedule for this year. Full details and forms needed to apply for the GRE's are contained. in the Bulletin of Information for Candidates. This can be obtained fro11' Educational Testing Service, Box 955, Princeton, New Jersey, 08540; 990 Grove Street, Evanston, Illinois, 60201. .... ~~-.. .. .-.------- ... --------. I For All Your Paint ! I and Hardware Needs I I & Cleaning Supplies I i See Us ! I t I CAPITOL PAINT & I I HARDWARE co. ! I 730 STATE ST. : I t I Phone FR 4-4123 p I t '----------------------.._\' VinlrkJ Men's Shop Specialists in Coll.egiate Wear 514 State Street Park & Shop at Lafayette Free Parking DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap R~ Fine food and Legal Beverages 11 8 - 1 20 JAY STREET ~FGr three Gelierations.'· fhose WhtO Knew ••• Ha.,e. been .. ecammending - HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER 11 3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family\ 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY ) ( ·.~ \l ' {\li j) ·~ ... ··~ 0 Fr:e! Ye,a Peopl \lib era commun Soniebo• next to the deatl Commit; class. n beanies. \V\ si~ they likt anarchy of the resurrec new anc Tot about, Colle~ one-hu years--aj that we into me student lack 0 nonwhi co ll e conserv been th p 42f IF GR '' ·~ Se1 ' ' . ._, ~ bo' oxi 35 rei

• of But if to .\With the the lack of black these aid, ting a using oncerts the cation, as it three to it other the s, the and second plaints. to and needed are of This fro11' Box Jersey, Street, : l : I I • & : I • . • I I I I I. I ' I . I ... \' OPIN.ION: Fr:eshman Beanies Blaze Year of Change is in Air by Alan Cohen People were talking about \liberation\ and a new community at Union College. Somebody with long hair stood next to a flag pole and declared the deaths of the Campus Action Committee and the freshman class. There was a fire of burning beanies. People were ml\king the \V\ sign and cheering when they liked what was said. It was to college if you wanted him to come out the same way he went in, except for some book learning and possibly a beer belly. During the past few years, a marked change has become evident. Students came together in an \Action Committee\ to let people know that they're against the United States' armed intervention in Vietnam. A Big BFother program sent students into the slums of Schenectady to do a little to help someone besides themselves. Students demonstrated their feeling about the social rules thereby effecting change and demonstrated against the administration's changing the grading system without consulting the student body. Union men opened a coffeehouse where artists could express their feeling to others in whatever form they wish. So, there has been change, and there's more to come. The year old Campus Action Committee has already been replaced by students calling themselves the Community--an integration of people interested in social, cultural, and political change at Union College and throughout the nation. Beanies . were burned, not as a prank, but Snowy Mollntam as a symbol that the nonsensical- ''Because it traditions separating freshmen · ~ \ RE: UNION by Paul Andrews This column is hereby dedicated to bringing us all together and providing that under the laws of Minerva we are all one. Contributions are heartily encouraged at the Concordy mailbox in Old Gym Hall, Room 252 Davidson or any Concordy staffer of your acquaintance. Probably the first thing you noticed as you arrived on campus was the alarming paucity of campus trees as compared with this time last year. As a matter of fact, a '\small twister\ gave the campus an arboreal facelifting July 19, downing some 28 trees. enough to dissuade the administration from continuing the requirement through fall term. · By the way, the reason the flag was flown half-mast last week was in memory of recently deceased trustee emeritus John Belanger, retired vice president of General Electric who resided in Rexferd, N.Y. from the rest of the community Was Th · ere. Wi·ll Union Alan Cohen, '71, who worked for Upward Bound on campus last summer, was right there, folks: \It was pouring down rain. I was running from the Humanities Building to my car between Fox and Davidson. As I was running trees were falling all over the place.\ ANNOUNCEMENT: A week from Friday the Features Department of Concordiensis will begin publishing a weekly magazine featuring interviews, serious and humorous articles poetry, fiction and other literary dabbliQ.gs. Anyone can submit anything to the same persons and locations aforementioned for items for this column. Keep Friday evening reserved for \Open House Night\ in The North End, Union's folk-jazz coffeehouse, at 8:30 p.m. or thereabouts. Admission is a paltry 50 cents cheap with free refreshments between sets. ) ·.·P \l ' t\li :0 ·~ '1> ...... ~·, '-~ If ('J li-; ~ .,, I'll .. , !!!> a ' ' Ill Accepi''V''? anarchy, .yes; but possibly, out of the funeral pyre will be resurrected a spirit of something new and different. To understand what it is all about, we must look at Union College during its first one-hundred and seventy years--any year will do. We see that women were not permitted into men's rooms; most of the students joined fraternities for lack of an alternative; few nonwhites were enrolled at the c o 11 eg e . A h a v en of conservatism, it really must have been the place to send your son The \V for Peace\ sign is everywhere these days-except the Union College campus. Which leaves open three possibilities: Union students don't know what it means, they're too straight to use it, or they don't like the idea of peace. The first possibility is easily disposed of: the sign means anything to anyone. Originally used to signify draft protestors' temporary \victory\ in barring PEGGY'S RESTAURANT Special 10% Discount For Union Students On $10 Meal Tickets 428 STATE ST. Call 346-9560 Oakland inductees during anti-draft week October 16-21 of last year, the sign has evolved to an expression of empathy. To draft resistors it means \we'll win yet;\ to anti-Viet war protestors, \peace (the \V\ standing for Vietnam\);\ to flower hoppers, ••love\ and even \up with sex;\ to potheads, \I want some\ or '\I've got some,\ depending on .the mode of delivery (with palm facing outward, \I want some,\ inward, \I've got some\). Most commonly, however, the sign is used as a greeting or symbol of solidarity. Its use is not limited to the under-30 set, as was witnessed during the McCarthy campaign. if he· does, he may be one of only a few at Union who do. But who knows- it took sideburns, moustaches, turtlenecks and nehrus a while to gain even token popularity here; maybe the same thing holds true with the sign. After all, how far behind the times can Union be? MIDTOWN BARBER SHOP All Haircuts done by Appoint- ment from Tues. rhru Fri. Ap- pointments not necessary Sat. 515 UNION ST. 37'7-4010 IF YOU WANT THE TRADITIONAL LOOK ••• LOOK FOR THE TRADITIONAL LABELl GREAT DIViDE Separates men from boys in \Endura-Press\ oxford of 65% Dacron/ 35%cotton witll soil- release ... in 9. colors. DAVES MEN'S & BOYS' 4-53 State St. Schnectady, N.Y. ~DACRON POLYE;STCR IS DUPONT\& REG. T.N. ~~ J ~ \We climbed Snowy Mountain,\ said Outing Club President Bill Michelfelder '70 \b ' ' · ecause it was there.\ Thus the Outing Club reached new heights of achievement in the first of its fall activities. Michelfelder led a group of seven Union men and four Skidmore girls on the 10-mile hike Saturday in the central Adirondacks. Michelfelder, an experienced climbing enthusiast, was responsible for overseeing the expedition and \making sure no one fell off a 200-foot cliff.\ Snowy Mountain took 272 hours to climb and only 1 ~ to descend \because we were going downhill rather than uphill,\ Michelfelder explained. The Outing Club will present a program \to explain the organization of the Outing Club and describe some of the activities which will be sponsored this year\ at 7:30 p.m. Wednesday in Hale House Michelfelder said. Person~ interested in taking part in the \Cave-In\ should meet at 7: 1 5 p.m. before the program. \Another clum:>y attempt by God to eliminate AI Cohen,\ is the way Concordy Managing Editor Bill Ouzer '71 explained it. \He doesn't like the competition.\ Once again West College is adorned with jackets and ties at dinner - for a few more days anyway. Then the frosh will settle into the groove of haggard grooming and unkempt appearance, and another silly institution will have fallen by the wayside. And speaking of silly institutions, the maintenance system is falling under more frequent and sharpened attack from the student body with every passing pushup. The 700-plus signatures against the system turned in at the end of last year are pending the proper administrative channels, report Tom Hard and Alan Moody, organizers of the petition. But apparently the action was not FROM THE JEWELER WHO SWINGS AT 428 STATE STREET PHONE FR 4-0183 Be watching for news of the Campus Convention. Final note: the young freshman AFROTC candidate was filling out his application form when he came to the question, \Do you support the overthrow of the U.S. Government by force or violence?\ He thought for a minute and wrote down, \violence\. To Reach Concordy Concordiensis encourages letters to the editor and articles of opinion and comment from the Student Body, the Faculty and the Administration. Items may be brought to the editorial offices in Bronner House, North College. Deadline for the Tuesday issue is 7 P.M. Monday night and for the Friday issue 7 P.M. Thursdays. Small items of news or announcements can be phoned into the office on Monday and Thursday evenings any time before 8:00. Concordy can be reached at either 377-8613 or 346-8614. VROOMAN'S Beer - Groceries Cold Cuts - Pastries Magazines 200 NOTT TERRACE FR 7-9834 Tri-City Students for O'Dwyer 10 P.M. Wednesday Oct. 2 ' Social Science lounge

Gridders Go 1-0-0 Concordy Sports Soccer To Ope,n Gridders Sneak By St. Lawrence, 7-6 Gillie, Solomon Captain BDoters 1 Open Season Against Alfred Sat. ,.r.·~ -v-o,-. 9 ~ by Henry Fein The Garnet football team opened its 1968 campaign on the road Saturday, taking a mildly disappointing 7-6 decision over St. Lawrence. The Larries, who had lost to weak R.P.l. 14-10 at Troy the week before, were not expected to provide especially tough competition for the Dutclunen. by Mike Reger I ,. j{< The first half was largely dominated by tfue defensive squads of both teams. Neither offense could consistently move the ball. The Larries scored first, as senior Dave Bain capped a sixty-five yard drive with a two-yard plunge. The St. Lawrence extra-point failed, as Dave Cook's boot was wide. The Garnet immediately got back into the con test, however, as Rick Swan ran back Cook's kickoff sixty-one yards to the St. Lawrence 37-yard line. A third-down pass from the Larrie 9-yard line from Ken Pea~ce to soph Jerry Ostrander capped the Garnet scoring attempt. Jim Sabella put the Garnet ahead to stay with the point after. Defense Improves As the first half continued, it became evident that neither team would roll up a big score. The Garnet defense, weak early in the game against inside rushing, hardened quickly to prevent the Larries from effectively moving the football. The St. Lawrence defense, on the other hand, applied an effective pass rush to keep Pearce off balance, and the . Garnet line had difficulty opening up the holes heeded for the Union runnirrg game. Two Garnet sophs stood out early, and are sure to make important contributions throughout the season. Ostrander, who never lost a yard rushing all day, was effective as both a runner and a receiver. The PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP 262 Saratoga Road MAYFAIR SHOPPING CENTER AI the Sign of the Red Neon Pipe TUES. thru SAT. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. alsco THURS. and FlU.: 7 to 9 PM SCOTIA, N.Y. Phone 399-1630 Down to Louis', let us go, Let tfre lager freely flow. f . ! ' . l~t··,,>;·~· Union's varsity soccer team opens its regular season on Saturday with a home contest with .Alfred at noon. The Garnet will scrirnage Albany State here at 4:30 tomorrow. This year's Garnet hooters will he co-captained .by Mike Solomon, a senior who will still'! at wing, and Bdan Gillie, a junior who will start llt right half back. Other starters will be senior Walt Hutton at Left fullback, junior Bob Okello at Right inside. 'In the goal will be either junior Chris Cartsonas or sophomore Mike Pitt. The front line· positions ru:e \up for grabs\ according to Coach Gruy Brown. Among the leading contenders are senior Jim Wilso11, juniors Doug Duval and Bill Porter, and sophs Bobby Dodd, Kev,jn Coyne, Fury Scialdone, Fred Midlin, Chris Swan, Mike Piening, and Steve Berrick. The team has seven retwning lettermen. Trinity Tough Now you see it, now you don't: Craig Carlson in action against St. Lawrence at Canton Saturday. At left, he is shown receiving one of five completions from KenPe~~rce, good for a total of l Ol yards in the contest. His close effective coverage is evident at right, as tlte Larrie defender breaks up the Garnet play. Coach Brown feels that it is too early to .predict the outcome of tl1e season and forecasts Trinity as being the toughest opponent. Trinity defeated Army but lost to Long ·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·- .. -·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·· Tight end Dan Gould came offensive line did a fine job of loss to R.P.I., the slim victory the running game is to be through with timely receptions giving Pearce the time he needed must be regarded as a caution effective enough to take the to keep the Garnet attack alive. to find his receivers. After light by the Garnet. With pressure off the potent passing With Swan double-covered all moving the ball quite well into essentially the same squad that game. Fullback Larry Sykes, afternoon and split end Craig St. Lawrence territory, the compiled a 4-4 record last playing the entire game over Joe Carlson slao being closely Dutchmen had obvious season, the Dutchmen hope to James, ran the ball twenty-five covered, Coach George Flood difficulty in penetrating the have at least a winning slate this times, but gained only fifty-one was forced to depend on the Larrie defense once the going campaign. yards, a 1.9-yafd per carry sophs to take up the slack, got rough. A strong offensive line will be average. Ostrander, running wide which they did quite well. The defense did a fine job necessary for continued Garnet most of the afternoon, had the Scoreless Half throughout the contest, success. Although th.eyare good necessary speed to beat the St. The second half was a sort of especially in the second half. pas~ blockers, the linemen must Lawrence defenders \aroung the comedy of errors_ The Garnet Due largely to the interceptions, begt~ to open up some holes if corner,\ and picked np 86 yards. had the football inside the St. the Larries often had Cine field 1-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-r Lawrence 20 yard line six times position, but the Garnet in the second half without defenders prevented any • • • coming up with a single score. substantial St. Lawrence .Final lntramurol Stand1ngs I Pearce had four passes movement. The Larriesmanaged 1 • intercepted, one of which came only three first downs in the I on a first-and-goal from_ the nine. entire h.alf. 1 BETA THETA PI 896.381 j !he. pass. protectiOn. was Although the Larrjes were • DELTA UPSILON 822-473 • lmpioved 10 the half, the obviously fired up after their I DELTA CHI 803.745 I PHOTOGRAPHERS WANTED The Office of Public Relations and Publications wi II buy photographs and photographic services from student photographers. Professional rates for work of professional quality. For further information inquire at Lamont House, Mr. Sine or Mr. Carmen. College extension 200 and 209. DIAMANTE'S 8 DELTA PHI 78Ll06 • I INDEPENDENTS 764_598 I • PHI EPSILON PI 694.097 1 I PHI SIGMA DELTA 684.177 I • • I PHI PSI 638.714 I e PHI GAMMA DELTA 630.480 1 I PHI DELTA THE'TA 610.760 j ' THETA DELTA CHI 585.816 I t KAPPA ALPHA 521.155 •: SIGMA PHI 495.384 ALPHA DELTA PHI 488.072 SIGMA CHI 477.860 PSI UPSILON 437.195 I • -~·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·_J WELCOME AGAIN A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in 011r Comfortable Dining Roofll 2 or more SHIRTS ••••• 2~ ea. NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 -Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. NOW IN OUR 74th YEAR For reservations phone FR 4·8917 STEREOSOUND COMPONENT MUSIC SYSTEMS FOUR UNION STREn SCHENECTADY,N.Y. 12305 DISTRIBUTORS FOR MIRACORD, SHURE, AR, PIONEER, TEAC, DUAL, KENWOOD, ALTEC-LANSING MciNTOSH BY APPOINTMENT ONLY PHONE 518-374-~367 Opp. The Brownell Gate on NoH Street Open Daily 1 0 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to 1 A.M. UNION PANTS •• 49c SUITS •• 98c Dambrose Cleaners 1517 VANVRANKEN AVENUE- FR 4-5193 Just Around the Corner from .Mohawk National. Be~nk BOOK COMPANY 237-241 STATE_ STREET BOOKS ART SUPPLIES DRAFTING SUPPLIES ALL SOCIAL & COMMERCIAL STATIONERY PHONE: 393-2141 Island University in last year's NCAA regional tournament. Also tough will be Middlebury, fresh from a·. summer's tour behind the iron ' curtain, R.P.I., University of Rochester, and Colgate, a new addition to this year's schedule. »: \With this I'm j office,\ Rockefel for Cung 111 of the Sc Speak than SOC The Schedule Alfred ,, t• living in and ur frustratic today.\ : Rochester St. Lawrence . at Hartford 1.1 for bring life. The C Oct. 5 Oct. 8 Oct. 10 Oct. 12 Oct. 19 Oct. 23 Oct. 26 Oct. 29 Oct. 31 Nov. 2 Nov. 5 at Middlebury at Hobart 1 Clarkson,,, \\! to tha n~ R.P.l. you ·. at Colgate ' your intt Trinity in the 1 at Hamilton J. \I determin 10, 20 ~ Cross Country Oct. 15 Oct. 18 Oct. 23 Oct. 26 Oct. 30 The Schedule at Hobart R.P.I. ,,. aat Hamilton ICAC at Alfred at Trinity, why I'm \If w \ideas to we'd be1 governor with the ~· system. tends to keep ev t years ar to morro· national . males, c: Sailing Team ' 1 ' '· 1 up you The Sailing Club will hold an ·• organizational meeting at 4:30 tomorrow in front of the Memorial Chapel. Anyone interested in sailing is strongly ·• urged to attend . Giantl -,. 2 ft.x31t. \\) o~!~.~J=95* *Send any black & white or color '' photo (no negatives) and the name \Swing!ine\ cutout from any Swing line package (or reasonable facsimile) to: • POSTER-MART, P.O. Box 165, Woodside, N.Y. 11377. Enclose $ 1.95 cash, check, or money order (no C.O.D.'s). Add sales tax where appli· • cable. Poster rolled and mailed (post- paid) in sturdy tube. Original mate• rial returned und!!maged. Satisfactie>n ·'· guaranteed. Get a Swing line Tot Stapler 98C (including 1000 staples) Larger size CUB Desk Stapler only $1.69 Unconditiopally guaranteed. At.any stationery, variety, or book store, s~INC. LONG ISLAND CITY, N.Y.11101 \1\1 and you future. Refer governor into a si1 30 years \' ead this A gn which ~ hasn't sa t• The ' Twen .o O'Dwye Senato Wednesc and off-1 ') J 0 h coordi1 graduatE those p 'll4 well-knc College door-to- . ~· start ca1 with t Union-:k school 111 resident Ed Coordin ,, O'Dwye Senator He a Rory C \tri-city here toe 'J \ Spor format, Bronne open : . ., good-til hooten: ·Jim 1 ·~and Tc will h operati1 ~devotee talent. be welc ''We 15 and ot End w sa~p, \I till or ju unfortt

I \A Causa Persa P.arole Assai\ Plant Food Facts Page 3 Founded at Union College 1877 sa f' ''(.j· ~--:-V-:-o-:-1.-:9::8-:-N:--o-. 3:-----------~---------S-CH->-EN--EC_T_A_D_Y_,-N-.Y-.-, -O-C-TO-BE-R-4,2:1:_9_6_8 __________________ P_FI_I C_E_T_W_E_N_T_Y_C_E_N_T_S I ,, if' Rocky Addresses B:utton Rally year's NCAA tough will from a·. the iron ' of a new »: \With a responsive aadience like this I'm just sorry I'm not running for office,\ remarked Governor Nelson Rockefeller yesterday at a raHy he'ld for Cong~essman Dan Button in front t\l of the Sch.affer Library. Speaking before a crowd of more than 500, he began by saying, \We're ,, \' living in times of tremend(HJS change and uncertainty ... I know the Alfred frustrations felt by the young people Rochester today.\ He praised Eugene McCarthy St. Lawrence · • \4 for bringing young people into public at Hartford· at Middlebury life. at Hobart 1 The Governor turned his attention Clarkson, to a number of issues concerning ,,\\l th\W d h' R.P.l. you · . e nee your ent us1asm, at Colgate ' your integrity, your idealism, involved Trinity in the decisions that are going to at Hamilton J. l.t determine what happens in the next 5, 10, 20 years in this country. That's untry ule at Hobart R:P.I. '\ Hamilton at Alfred at Trinity, why I'm for 18 year old voting.\ \If we are afraid of exposing our \ ideas to the idealism of youth than we'd better re-think our ideas.\ The governor supported this statement ~· with the exa1nple of the present draft system. He called the draft \unfair it tends to draft the poor, spare the rich, keep everybody suspended for ten eam ~years and it ought to be changed tomorrow.\ He said he favors a national lottery of all 19 year old . males, citing that if your name comes \' '· 1 up you serve, .jf not, you are finished the mention of Nixon's name afld Rocky responded, \Richard Nixon's more flexible than you think.\ Also speaking about the national elect.ions, he stated that he admired Johnson for not running, that Wallace's policies \would lead America down a dead-end street,\ and that he hoped youth would not \stand on the sidelines.\ Asked about the withdrawal of the Fortas nomination, Rockefeller said, \I supported him from :the beginning. I'm sorry about it:'' The speeches, preceded and followed by handshaking and informal questions, began with the introduction of Congressman Dan Button by Dean Lichterman. \I am an admirer and supporter of Dan Button, and coming from a Democrat that's pretty strong,\ commented the dean who then cited Button as one of 63 Congressmen endorsed by the National Committee for an Effective Congress. Button in turn introduced the governor. Governor Rockefeller, afl ex·officio trustee of Union, conunented informally on political future, \I'll be aromtd\ and asked if PLAYBOY has wanted to interview him he said, \Not yet. I've got enough problems.\ As he left, the governor signed several autographs including a Humphrey-Muskie sticker. Campaigning for 29th District Congressman Dan Button, Governor Nelson Rockefeller speaks to 500 Unionites Thursday, at Library Plaza. \Creative Energy\ To Keynote New Group A new organit.ation founded to create an atmosphere of \creative energy\ was officially given its franchise Thursday evening in Hale House at the first Student Cmmcil meeting of the academic year. A formidable list of general objectives was also formulated as the Council set goals fur the coming year. The new council, Russell Manker presiding, gave The Community the go·ahead to mobilize every \'interested member of the Union College C ommun it y ... to encourage the development of an atmosphere in which a creative energy exchange among the campus community would be facilitated.\ After nearly an hour=long debate, the constitution of The Community, containing five articles, was okayed, 11 '6. The vote recognized The Community as an official student organization and will allow the organization to apply to the Tax Committee for funds. The first three articles of the constitution establish the name, purpose and membership of The Community, respectively. The purpose includes '\to aid in the implementation of any ideas produced as a result\ of an exchange of creative energy. Membership presumably is open to non-students i.n the college community as well as students. Article Four deals with the officers which \shaH be a Manager and an Assistant Manager appointed by general conseRt of the membership.\ The last article says that '\meetings shall be known as conventions and shall convene whenever deemed necessary by the Manager and/or a significant nurnber of members.\ Ed Buzak, president of the Class of '70, proposed that an amendment be added calling for the convention to \act only as a mobilizer of student opinion.\ The motion was defeated with four consented votes. will hold an ., ing at 4:30 of the Anyone and you can make your plans for the future. \\ Referring to the Vietnam War, the governor commented, \We've gone into a situation with politicies of 20 to 30 years ago. !think Nixon is going to Co-ed Cornrnittee Meets Several members of the Council and spokesmen for The Community described the function of the Community. They indicated conventions will help defeat apathy at Union and communicate community opinion to the Student Council for action. Larry Pedowitz '69, was mentioned as a likely candidate for Manager of The Community. The first convention is expected t<J be held soon, probably within a month. . .. ts strongly or color ' 1 nd the name facsimile) to: • 0. Box 165, $ 1.95 Y order (no where appli· • (post- riginal mate• SatisfactiC>n .. : book store. ® INC, Y.11101 f• ead this war.\ A group shouted out: \How?\ to which Mr. Rockefeller replied, \He hasn't said yet.\ t• The crowd reacted with booing to ~O'Dwyer Supporters Twenty student supporters of Paul \O'Dwyer the Democratic Party's Senatorial candidate, met on Wednesday evening to plan their on and off.campus campaign. \'! John Levetkian, a roving coordinator for O'Dwyer, who graduated from Union in 1960, told An open meeting of the Committee on Co~Education will be held Tuesday, October 8 at 11:30 A.M. in Memorial Chapel. Prof. Carl Niemeyer, chairman of the Committee urges all students to attend. Dr. Niemeyer will. present a Organize Campaign Pete Carson of the Albany O'Dwyer headquarters discussed the technical aspects of organizing a student campaign. Pete Starkweather, a junior and a veteran canvasser for Eugene McCarthy, explained the methods to use in persuading voters to select O'Dwyer. summary of the Committee's report. giving more details than have been published on previous fact sheets. The other Committee members present will make additional remarks. Questions from students will be welcomed. After the meeting a questionnaire will be distributed, in which questions will be asked about student attitudes toward co-education, the committee's report, social life on campus, and whether students think their own curriculum would be improved by the admission of women. According to Professor Nieneyer, total student participation in answering these forms is important. Since the college trustees will be meeting in early November, the questionnaires should be returned by the end of the week. The President's Office will process the forms. Dr. Carl Niemeyer, Chairman of the Faculty Committee examining the possibility of Co-education at Union. ~ those present that O'Dwyer is not well-known in Schenectady. He said College students can change that by door-to-door canvassing. Students will Singer Judy Collins To Highlight Fall Weekend . ~\start canvassing on Saturday morning, with the hope of covering the Union-King's Point football game, high school games, as well as part of ru residential Schenectady. Ed Rundell, '71, County Coordinator of Young Citizens for ,~O'Dwyer, called O'Dwyer's opponent, Senator Javits, \totally unacceptable.\ He also introduced O'Dwyer's son, Rory O'Dwyer, who arrived in the \ tri-city area on Wednesday. He spoke here today. Folk songstress Judy Collins, accompanied by former Union student Paul Harris, will headline Fall weekend with a performance in Memorial Chapel November 9. Miss Collins first rose to national recognition with the folk song revival in the early 1960's. Publication of her first album, \Maid of Constant Sorrow\ spurred her fame and success. Although a lesser noted activist than her counterpart Joan Baez, Miss 'J North End Coffee House To Open With Hootenanny \ Sporting a new paint joband revised format, the North End Coffeehouse in Bronner House, North College, will open at 8 p.m. tonight with a ·~ good-time and audience-participation hootenanny. i . . Jim Talbert, North End Manager, ·~and Tony Berk, both on folk guitar, will headline the first night of operation, which will largely be ~ devoted to exposing new campus talent. Impromptu performances will be welcomed, Talbert said. \We want to familiarize freshmen \ and other newcomers to the North End with the coffeehouse,\ Talbert sa~p, \( t's a good place to bring a date f) or just to be entertained. It's unfortunate that probably a lot of guys listen to folk music on their stereos than hear it live at the North End.\ While the focus is on folk music,. the potential of the North End is unlimited, Talbert said. He cited the production of a one-act play and ALlen Ginsberg's poetry reading last year as representatives of the wide range of opportunities for campus artists to perform in the coffeehouse. Procuring additional off-campus talent and providing a broader varieLy of entertainment are the primary goals of the North End this year, Talbert said. The North End will be open from 8 to 12 p.m. weekly on Friday through the terril. Cover charge is 50 cents. with free refreshments provided. Collins nonetheless has performed frequently for civil rights and anti-war rallies. Upon release of her album, \In My Life\ Miss Collins gained immediate campus popularity. Her next and most recent album, \Wildflowers\ featurina Leonard Cohen's \Hey That's No Way To Say Goodbye\ and Joni Mitchell\s \Both Sides Now\ has become a standard in the collegian's record collection. Paul Harris, Class of '66, has performed background instrumentation for many folk artists, including Richie Havens on his \Mixed Bag\ album. Mr. Harris has command of several instruments and is particularly gifted on the piano. Tickets at three dollars for Miss Collin's Saturday evening performance and a talent show the preceeding evening will be available at the Student Activities Office soon. Nobody Is W ate bing Bi!} Brother The Big Brothers of Union College will be an autonomous organization this year and not an extension of the Upward Bound Program, according to Richard Savell, '69, President of the group. Dean Lichterman There will be a meeting for all pn'-law seniors at 7:~0 P:\1 next Tursday, October 8, in thC' Social Sciences Building. All stu dents interested in in wstigating Ia v.· schools are . encouraged to att1~nd by Oean Martin Lichterman. Students in the program organize tutoring facilities, work as Big Brothers and arrange recreational activities and workshops for underpriviledged children. Larry Weitz will work with the organization as staff psychologist and as a counselor for the Big Brothers. Savell said he hopes this year the Big Brothers can work more closely with their Little Brothers to develop a stronger relationship with the boys and help them with their problems. An In-Service Training Program designed for those in the Upward Bound Program who wish to work more closely with Little Brothers will be established this year. Plan also include work with the Big Sister programs of Skidmore and · Russell Sage. In other business, the Council unanimously approved a recommendation to President Martin that two of the as yet unnamed buildings on campus be named in honor of the late Robert F. Kennedy and Martin Luther King. Among the general topics of investigation set for this academic year are the maintenance system, social rules, co·e ducat ion, reorganization of student government, comprehensive ' education, College admission policies and the use of drugs on campus. Luce To Speak t l . •-r.·.~~ . ~ . .---../-' Phillip Abbott Luce will speak on the New Left in SS 016 Monday, October 7tll at 4:30. Philli:P Abbott Luce, noted author and new leftist, will speak on \The New Left\ at 4:30 PM Monday, October 7, Abby Stillman, chairman of the Political Forum announced today. Luce~ one of the organizers and participants in the 1963 and 1964 \student\ trips to Cuba which successfully defied the \travel ban\ graduated from Mississippi State and is working toward his Ph.D. at the New School for Social Research in New York City. After his trip to Cuba, Luce joined the pro-Chinese Communist Progressive Labor Movement. He edited its newspaper and served on its National Committee. Following his defection from this group in 1965, Luce wrote The New Left, a widely acclaimed study of leftist radicalism. He has since written Road to Revoluction: Communist Guerrilla Warfare in the U.S.A. His most recent book, An Intelligent Student's Guide to Survival will soon be published by Viewpoint Books.

Publ!sh.-d' Tu!:'sda1· und Fnduy <lu'- ing thE> SC\hool year by th<' Studt\n~ Body of Un1on College, Schen<•ctud~·, N.Y. National Advertlstng Repre- sentatiYe: Notional Educ-at tonul Advert·is ing ServiCE\ Inc •. Collegt> Puhl1sh~rs R~presl\ntutne JbO LPxlnglon Ave-nue. N. Y. C. Ed1torial Office, Old Gym, Union, College, Pub!icat10n Office, White- hurst Printing & Binding Co., Inc., · 416-418 Fifth Ave., Troy. 235-4450. Enter<'d in the Schenectady Post Office as St>cond Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20¢ a copy; $6 a year d.e·llvert>d anywhere in the United St.ute·s. SENIOR BOARD D. Petel'Drotman '69 .......... 346-8614 ............ Co-Editor in Chief . Jeffrey C. Browne '69 ......... ·346-9973 ............. Co-Editor in Chief, Richard Lewis '70 ............. 346-1932 ............. Business Manager William Ouzer '71 ............. 377-8613 .............. Managing Editor Allen Gartner '71. ............. 377-8613 .................. News Editor , Paul Andrews '71 ....................................... Features Editor .. Leonard Simon 70 ...................................... Sports Editor' Paul Farnham '70 ..................................... Associate Editor· JUNIOR BOARD Richard Kramer '7l.. ..................................................... Photography Editor· Henry Fein '71 ........................................................ Associate Sports Editor Peter Weingold '?!.. .............................................. Associate Features Editor Alan Cohen'?!.. .................................................. Assistant Features Editor Michael Swirsky '70 ........................................ National Advertising Manager Jon Brunswick '70 ....................................................... Distribution Director Carl Gold sand '70 ......................................................... Circulation Manager Larry Rothblum '70 ................................................... Subscription Manager Jerry Levine '71.. ................................................ Local Advertising Manager Jeff Birn '71 ....................................................... Local Advertising Manager . '>- ._ .. lllilt!Mh\* i!II!II!Ut~~ ~- '\t. iJ __ ·~.~ ~ ',.,.,.,.,..., ... -~-t ~ l z, .. i.~ Rusty Manker Jim Stillman Danny Aronson COUNCIL LEADERS WELCOME DISCOURSE, RE-O.RGANIZATION PLANS UNDER STUDY by Jim Stillman Student Council Vice-President Student government is often criticized and discussed, but seldom understood. Although a small measure of the blame rests with the student body, in large measure it is a result of a communication breakdown between the members of the Council and the student body as a whole. The officers and members of this year's Council are going to make every possible effort to repair this breakdown. lf you, as concerned students, have vie'Ws on any campus issues which interest you, please don't hesitate to speak with any Council representative or any one of the officers. The only effective student government is one in which maximum student concern is refelcted. Rusty and I would like to clarify our position relative to our support of the upcoming \Convention\ planned by the \Community\. We feel that the expressed aim of the convention, that of trying to bring the student body together to discuss goals and objectives of the students as a community, benefits the entire college. Hopefu]]y, the convention will help to make all students aware of the various problems at Union and the various methods of solving the problems. There has been much talk about reorganizing student government at Union. The officers of the present council, as well as several other students, are in the process of investigating alternative plans for restructuring student government: and, as soon as we have something concrete, our ideas will be made known. If you have any thoughts on the issue, please communicate them to us. The success of this year's Council depends not only on the performance of the Council members, but also on the interest of all students. The officers of the student body are Russell Manker, (President) Phi Epsilon Pi, 374-5896; Jim Stillman (Vice President), 156 Davidson, 372-0286; and Daniel Aronzon (Secretary), Phi Epsilon Pi, 346-9959. Craig Younger, Phi Epsilon Pi, 346-9959, is Chairman of the Student Tax Committee. LETTERS TO JHE ED.ITOR rash act has jeopardized your position as a mover in the movement, so give us some S 1 lack man. Even post-war-baby- -boomers and other people under thirty know that in fairly modem times Winston Churchill, the old chap that ranted about blood, tears, ans sweat, first popularized the \V' for victory sign and it was not as stated 'originally used to signify t:b;aft ' DA~ D.utc~ Linebacker The following is a letter of apology to Professor Steven Berk regarding an error in Linebacker's evaluation of his winter History 11 recitation course. Dear Mr. Berk: As co-editor of Linebacker for winter, 1968,. I find that a mistake and aa injustice has occurred thro1:1gh what has turned out to be an error on the part of oBe of our typists. The error was simple and obviously unintended, but the consequences are such that a letter of apology is i11 order. The paragraph which was entered in our publication was correct as evaluated except for the last sentence. As published it reads, \Notes were not too difficult to take aBd classes were not interesting and valuable.\ As intended it reads, \Notes were not too difficult to take and classes were both interesting and valuable.\ More than being typographical, the error reversed the original idea of the phrase. Since this course received one of the best ratings by the students, we especially regret anything that would detract from it. Robert E. Michaels Change To the Editor: Change, when directed toward specific ends and when operationalized within a viable framework, may be a highly useful and productive enterprise. By the same token, the symbols of change, if carefully chosen, may serve as useful catalysts for later developments. The burning of freshmen beanies seems to me the most ridiculous and contrived sym.bol of change imaginable. Certainly freedom from \repression\ is hardly an adequate answer when one asks what such a burning symbolizes. It is inconceivable to me how freslunen who have been at Union for a short time, could possibly know anything about the \repression\ they may or may not face once they have become more familiar with Union's policies. Unity is indeed a noble concept, but how meaningful can a union between two groups be if one is totaUy ·ignorant of what it may expect in weeks to come or of what has gone before to bring us to our presen condition. A certain amount of time is required before incoming freshmen can become familiar with the methodology employed when dealing with the dynamics of change at Union. There has been a grea't deal of change in recent years and there is a great deal more to come. It will evolve more rapidly in some areas than in others but it will nevertheless evolve. To begin, however, as some freshmen seem inclined at this time to do, by destroying certain existing institutions rather than channeling their energies through existing structures, will be to create a rift Union can well do without. The intentions of the \Community\ are admirable and should be supported, but if they propose a \eleansing by fire\ then the phoenix which will rise out of it can only be one from which little of value will be derived. Craig J. Baumer President, Class of 1969 Flag To the Editor: Life is something to contemplate. In order to memoralize the lives given in the Vietnam War, let us propose to the administration of Union College to lower the campus flag to half staff until the unmerciful sacrifice of lives has ceased. Skip Mowry '71 Ed Fowler '71 Rob Maier '71 ,,. ...... ------------------, I For All Your Paint ! : and Hardware Needs : I & Cleaning Supplies I ; I 1 See Us , . ' :CAPITOL PAINT & I i HARDWARE co. I I 730 STATE ST. : I I ! Phone FR 4-4123 1 I I '------------------- .... -- .. ~ ZELLMER'S NORGE LAUNDRY AND CLEANING VILLAGE AT 1559 VAN VRANKEN AVE. (at Hottie Street! DRY CLEANING WASHERS 8 Lbs. ___________ $2.00 12 Lb.------------ 4 lb. Min.-------- 1.00 20 Lb.------------ DRYERS 30 Lb.------------ 10 Min.----------~ • 10 .25 .35 .50 OPEN- 8 A.M. to 10 P. M. Mon. to Sat.-10 A.M. to 6 P.M. Sundays IF YOU HAVE NEVER HAD NORGE DRY CLEANING DONE WE CAN BET YOU WILL BE AMAZED LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian American Food 1125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady Dl 6-9744 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar FUN WORKING IN EUROPE GUARANTEED JOBS ABROAD! Get paid, travel, meet people. Summer and year 'round jobs for young :people 17 to ~0. _For illustrated magazine with complete deta1ls . and al!phcations send $1.00 to The International Student Informa!IOn Serv1ce (ISIS), 133, rue Hotel des Monnaies, Brussels 6, Belgium. Ec.uador To the Editor: I should like to express the appreciation of sonle one hundred Ecuadoreans for those members of the Union College faculty and staff whose contributions at the close of the spring ter-m last year made possible the reconstruction of the Escuela Fiscal Mixta Benjamin Franklin, a jungle outpost school in the Province of Manobi, Ecuador. They now have a new roof and runNing water. The work was recently completed by the local residents in time for classes. I thank you personally, very much. Walter J.M. Pfeil, '68 Victory?' To the Editor: To the revisionistpuppet who authored the article 'Will Union Accept\V' ?': Your hienous and p r o t e s tors' temporary \victory\ ... Iast year'. 'How far behind the times is Union?• you ask brother. Obviously over twenty years if the now generation is grooving on \V\. Julius Caesar, plunderer and · militarist, was krrown to flash the three \V' sign after his ' infamous declaration: Veni, Vidi, Vici. Therefore, he it' known that flashing the \V'' is now exposed and justly branded . as a reactionary, f;:~scist ~ct, )i. unworthy of the now Unmn 1 man. A. Russell Jaco(ls Chairman, Ad Hoc committee · ,; on gestures and rela,ted forms of non-verbal put-down. RITZ REST AU RANT l)id y< bastion would J: Uriive.r: conservat news fo Esquire ~ the Ac College Daughter Revolutic staid, < benevol instHutio Liber sittiBg, l committE knows al bunch a floweF I aroundaJ George mother;]\< We, ·O been del wh:o ren their r0~ back ... it here. An heads, be 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featuring . - HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS. \ \1 males ar You don All t CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Sm.all & Large Parties Pizza & Sandwiches at All Hours Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open Daily 11 A.M. to Mi.dni·ght )I an d ties gym ,c perversic of six he ) -~ and are night at be faultE &~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Yet , r \' J thiflg: h< PHOTOGRAPHERS WANTED The Office of Public Relations and Publications will buy photographs and photographic services from student photographers. Profes siona I rates for work of professional qual i·ty. For further information inquire at Lamont House, Mr. Sine or Mr. Carmen. College extension 200 and 209. PEGGY'S RESTAURANT Special 1000 Dis count For Union Students On $10 Meal Tickets 428 STATE ST. Call 346-9560 what Un we've b€ ., 1 .,, care to k I I •J \II ,, ' ~· The Intercoll tonight from Admissi• cost 25 the \.Ma availablE calling · 273-80'; A I interestE 1968-69 on Mon Beta K Library. cantril essays, 1 or V'IC layou cantril ~=======================~ •) ~ managir f to atten Traditional Natural Shoulder Clothing Jos. Nusbaum, Inc. 447-451 State Street Our 61 st Year in Downtown Schenectady >) 4:30 . Stud in meet 111 and vk author': plann]n, with D< .) . ·t. at a lat take pb Phi Bet o.) ··--- f.) ' • I) . ~ •) ~ z~ PI! ') \' ~!:====-=============!!, 1!,. .. _

OPINION:_ your ver in the s some slack t-war-baby- people hat in fairly Churchill, about sweat, first DAR Dubs Dutchm-en Pure by Larry Friedman Plant Food Facts .... ~~~~-==] MICRONUTRIENTS -- J ESSENTIAL TO PLAt-JTGROWn-1 -:c_ = f:\r!ICROI\IUTRIENTS, SO-CAlLED N - ~ BECAUSE THEY'RE NEEDED -=-- Great Trials of Modern Man: for vic;:tory as stated t:b;aft ' 'How far you over · the now ng ·On \V\. nderer and· to flash after his i Veni, be it' the \V' is branded f;:tscist act, . now Union Jaco(ls committee· forms of I;>id you ever think that this bastion of mental erudition would rank with Bob Jones Uriive.rsity in ultimate conservatism? Well,. we've got news for you! I-n a recent Esquire article entitled \Where the Action Ain't\ Union College was chosen 'bY the Daughters of the American Revolution as one of the most staid, conservative, reverent, benevolent, clean· handed institutions in the naticm. Liberalization, pFogression, sitting, standing, and ad hoc committees? Bah! 1fhe DAR knows .aH. They are not just a bunch of little old ladies in floweF print dresses who ruB around and make speeches about George Washington and mothed\ood; they ,get involved. BY PLANTS IN 'SMI\LL AMOWTS, - NONJ::-l'HE-LESS ARE ESSEI'-JTII\L, -- E5PJ;C I ALLY IN PLANT ENZYME _ SYSTEMS. fiPF/•/0 My College Right or Wrong by Alan Cohen Upon entering college, a young man must put himself into a certain state of mind in order to accept the new set of rules imposed upon him. One such rule thath must be faced at Union forbids sexual intercourse in college-owned buildings ( e,g. the library or the Gymnasi1:1rn). How one freshman faced the problem of mind versus matter on his first weekend at Union CoHege is hereby related. (Names have been changed for obvious rreasons.) \Sheila I wish you could have met my roommate, but he went hnme for the weekeRd.\ ''You mean I can't stay with you?\ •·well, I really couldn't afford the Ttavelodge or the Holiday Inn. I just don't have ·enough money.\ \I mean stay here.\ \Oh no. You have to be out of here by two o'clock. That's a rule.\ \Ken would you kiss me.\ S uddeRly the two are wrapped in deep embrace on the bed. They share words of love as both become highly excited. Suddenly, Sheila sits up. \Ken do you remember graduation night?\ \Of course. That night I ... I mean we ... \ fornicat.ion can hvve on you. Besides, I read somewhere that I can be suspended from College for bFeaking this rule. Youdon't want me to get into troublr, do you?\ \But how woould anyone ever find out? 'Td turn myself in.\ \Do you have to agree with the college rules? I mean,. surely you don't believe that everything your college says is always right.\ \It's JnY college, right or wrong.\ We, ·on the other hand·, have been deluding ourselves. Those wh:o remember having girls in their r0oms . had better check back .. .it could never happen here. And a'll· youpotl1eads, acid heads, bombed, bearded, bloated .J \1 males are in for a great shock. You don't exist at Union. W aUace Candidacy Concerns Britain, Former Editor Writes \I don't mind. Ken, you know, we've been seeing each other for almost six months, but this is the first time we've really been alone, except in your cu.\ ''Are you very tired?\ \No why?\ •<WJw are you lying down?\ \We 11, there's still time tonight.\ \Oh I forgot to teiJ you. The co 11 ege has a rule against fornication in college-owned buildings. We can't do it.\ \Wow. You don't even feel that way about your country. Look at you always protesting against the war. Yet your college ... \ \Right or wrong. You don't understand, I guess. When you go to a college so encrusted in tradition, you just don't go around breaking rules. Why, every time I go near the gym, I choke with pride seeiRg the idol painted a different color. And I can't even express my rage when I hear people talking about bringing girls to Union. We've been all male for over one-hundred and seventy years.\ S, All 'Union men wear coats :. 1 and ties at all times, including gym classes, (to prevent perversion~: spend a mi11imum of six hours a day in the library; ) .~ and are tucked into bed every night at 10:00 PM. Never will we be faulted. Purity is Paramount! by Richard Patterson Yet we are puzzled by one Ill this year of the disenchanted voter, when Louis Harris feports that 57 per cent of the American people are uNhappy with the three-way presidential choice before them, it may be understandable that many Americans aren't paying much attention to the election. In London, however, it is evident that America's European Allies, especially Britain, are following the race closely. for rmen. \' J thing: how could the 'DAR know what Union is really ·like; maybe we've been coed longer than we ., 1 .,, care toknow. •J \II ') . \1 .) . ·11 t.} • f.), • ·~ ill/ •.J ·• •J ~ t) ~ •) 0 ') \' B·lithe·r The Capital District Interccllegiate Mixer will be held tonight at the R.P.I. Fieldhouse from 8:30-12:30 P.M. Admission -is free and beer will cost 25 cents. Music will be by the \Magic Garden.\ Tickets are available at the door or by calling 272-2437, 272;9584, or 273-8023. ·-·-·-· A meeting of students interested in working on the 1968-69 Idol staff will be held on Monday, Oct. 7,. in the Phi Beta Kappa room of Schaffer Library. Students interested in contributing poetry, prose, essays, photography or drawings, or vvor king on advertising, layout, proff-reading, contributing selection or managing a film series are invited to attend. The meeting beings at 4:30. ·-·-·-· Students or faculty interested in meeting with John Dos Passos and vtho are familiar with the author's work are invited to a planning session for an interview with Dos Passos to be published at a later date. The session will take place at 4:00, Oct. 7, in the Phi Beta Kappa room. It is the spectre of a President Wallace which is most haunting to Britons at present \New 30 per cent forecast put Wallace within sight of victory \ ran the headline in the London Times September 25. \The racist candidate, as the Times labeled Wallace, \appears close to wirnming the 34% of the vote he says he needs to win the election.\ Within the last week, two of London's widely read dailiies, the Evening Standard and the Daily Express, ran large front-page stories and pictures on Wallace, and his growing support in the American electorate. The Daily Mirror, in an article crying \More Backing for Wallace in shock U.S. poll\ began \White supremacist George Wallace ... has shown a fantastic increase in popularity.\ Rarely, in an American paper is Wallace openly labelled \racist\ or \white supremacist.\ Wallace's candidacy has now acquired credibility on both sides of the Atlantic. Despite the Times assertion that \it is quite unlikely that Gov. Wallace will get near to election\ the 11verage Briton finds it easy to admit the possibility of a Wallace victory. . Vinirks Men's Shop Specialists in Collegiate Wear 514 State Street Park & Shop at Lafayette Free Parking WELCOME AGAIN Z or more SHIRTS ....• 2~ ea. PANTS •• 49c SUITS •• 98c Dambrose Cleaners 1517 VANVRANKEN AVENUE- FR 4-5193 Just Around the Corner .from Mohawk National Bank ,_) ('j .. ________________ • The same conditions which led to the rise of Wallace in the U.S. may be now preparing Britain for a similar \swing to the right\ and a new emevgence of militaHt populism and anti-intellectualism. \Come lie beside me.\ \Actually its getting pretty late. I rented a room for you at a boarding house on Union Street. If you're tired, I can take you there now, and I'll come for you in the morning.\ \But don't you love me?\ \Of course. But the college specifically forbids it.\ \I didn't know then what I know now. You don't realize the psychological, biological and physiological effects that Crown Affair(s) Well In Order .· · \Stop Please. Tell me one thing. If the college changed its rules on sex, would you change your mind?\ by Paul Andrews \The Thomas Crown Affair,\ which opened Wednesday at the Scotia Art Theatre, is about a bored millionaire who robs banks, gets away with it, and is still bored, and the beautiful female private detective who tracks him down. Steve McQueen plays Thomas Crown, a big bankrobbing executive who solicits average American citizens _off the street to perform his elaborately planned New York heists. Crown pays them a phenomenal fee, they go back to their average American life, he deposits the rest of the money in Swedish banks and nobody is the wiser. Of course, Crown gets endless gleeful kicks out of befuddling the FBI and New York Police Department with his ingenious Gershon's Sandwiches Cold Cuts Salads Open Tues. ~ Sun. 8 A.M. to 9 P.M. Ph: EX 3-06171600 Union St. JAY BILLIARD LOUNGE 167 JAY ST. SPECIAL RAT6S FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS Bring Your Dates Free Parking In Rear holdup schemes. But between holdups he stays bored. However, Faye Dunmvay so_on arrives on the scene replete wtth a wardrobe that looks like it cost more than all the mon.ey Crown ever stole. Her specialty is solving the insoluble, and pretty soon she's done it again. Only she can't prove that Crown is the culprit, so she decides to meet him and test him out. Testing him out consumes most of the movie--including the most seductive chess game 0n record in which they become each other's pawns 1 falling in love. But despite the fact they love each. other they continue their roles, Crown as a too-clever criminal to give himself away and Miss Dunaway as ·a lady detective too curious to abandon Now's The Time To MARRY ME David and Julie ere doing it . How About You. . . Tricky Dickie Buy yo.ur Wedding Ring at Maurice Graubart & Sons, Jewelers, 166 .lay St. DEWITT'S Cafeteria .and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages 11 8 - 120 JAY STRHT her investigation. So they continue their game of cat and maybe-spouse until the end of the film. At least Crown is no longer bored. Both McQueen and Miss Dunaway give commendable performances in the film. On the whole pleasantly romantic and entertaining, \The Thomas Crown Affair\ movie is more pleasure than business. .:: To introduce the most eleg~:mt pen on (etmpus. \Why I hadn't thought about it.\ In Ashtabule Cemetery, somewhere in Great Britain, a lonely tombstone is inscribed: SHE LIVED BY VIRTUE HOPING FOR IMMORTALITY AND DIED BY CHOLERA CAUSED BY EATING UNRIPE FRUIT: READER, GO THOU AND DO LIKEWISE 1hcp~nsi'We n~w . Blc® Cli~~ for big $p&ndi!-l's 49¢ Only Bic would dare to torment d beauty like this. Not the g1rl. .. the pen she's_holding. It's the new luxury model Bic Clic ... designed for. sc~olarsh1p athletes, lucky card players and other rich campus soc1al1tes who can afford the expensive 49-cent price. . But ~on't let those delicate good looks fool you. Despite hor· nble pun1shment by mad scientists, the elegant Bic Clic still wrote first time, every time. Everything you wont in a fine pen, you'll find in the new Bic Clic. It's retractable. Refillable. Comes in 8 barrel colors. And like oil Bic pens, writes first time, every time ... no matter what devilish o buse. sadistic students devise for it. Waterman-Sic Pen Corporation. Milford, Connecticut 06460

Crown Kings Point Concordy Sports Beat Hamilton Kings Point Gridders Invade by Gary Prevost With last week's ICAC could be placed in a class with The 1968 Mariners are the largest Kings Point squad the Garnet have faced, and their formidable defensive wall may pose a definite problem for the less-than-powerful Garnet line. PI aye r-of-the-Week Gerry Ken Pearce. OstraNder listed as only a possible starter, the Garnet gridders open the 1968 home season tommorrow against a strong Kings Point squad at 1:30 on Alexander Field. After a sloppy opening-game win at St. Lawrence, the eleven face a Merchant Marine Academy team that may be their secoRd toughest opponent, behind Williams. The Mariners come to Schenectady with a 2·0 record, having defeated Gettysburg 26-8 and Adelphi 24-0, after being placed eighth on the pre-season Division III poll. Lavinia Stars The Mariners feature a strong running attack, led by junior Bob Laviilia. The 6 '0\ 190 lb. halfback is a fine broken-field runner who gained 131 yards in 19 carries against Gettysburg. Pat Capadonna, a 205 lb. sophomore, will start at fullback. Capadonna is a workhorse with adequate speed. The quarterback, Tyler Caruso, faces Union for the third time, and is an adequatP passer He will throw chiefly to Lavinia and wingback Ron Adams. Caruso threw 31 times against Adelphi for almost 200 yards, after throwing only 12 times against Gettysburg. The Kings Point defense has been very stingy against the running game, holding Adelplri and Gettysburg to -50 yards on the ground. The defensive secondary is inexperienced, and was not really tested in the Mariner's first two contests. Neither of the opening quarterbacks they have faced DARI TREET RESTAURANT YOUR CHOICE CHAR-BROIL STEAK VEAL CUTLET CHICKEN ... $1.50 2049 Van Vranken Ave. FR 1-4261 Go Garnet CELEBRATE THE UNION VICTORY WITH PHIL'S OWN BRAND Liquor Store 511 UNION ST. EX 3-3111 EX 3-3110 The defense is anchored by 5' 11 \ 220 lb. sophomore middle guard Don Adams, who made the all ECAC team last week. The third Adams brother, Harvey, who made all EC AC last year, holds down a linebacker spot. Other defensive stalwarts include senior linebacker and co-captain Frank Nespoli and senior tackle Charles Milfert. '72 Boaters To Test Panthers Union's freshmen soccer team, coming off a 0-0 tie with the varsity, open its season Wed., Oct. 9 against Middlebury. In another practice game, the frosh will play Fulton County Community College Monday. Coach Robert Benson was extremely pleased with his team's effort against the varsity. The ball-handling was excellent and the front line and halfbacks looked very good overall. This year's 28-man squad has been led so fax by Pie.rre Roumain and Art Fraser at the insides, Ira Turrett at right wing, Don Bergner, Laxry Mullman and Ross Dexter at the halfback positions, Tom Hough, Ford Stricker and Don Clarey at fullback and Dave Block on goal. Stu Moss SCHEDULE Tomorrow: Soccer: Alfred vs. Union 12:00 Daley Field Football: Kings Point vs. Union 1 : 30 Alexander Field Coach Art Lawrence is looking for referees for intramural football. Anyone interested should cantact him in the gym. VROOMAN'S Beer - Groceries Cold Cuts - Pastries Magazines 200 NOTT TERRACE FR 7-9834 Down to Louis', let us go, Let the lager freely flow. The Garnet defense, which was very stingy against the Larries after the first period, has remained healthy and can be expected to key on halfback Lavinia in an attempt to contain the Mariner offense and force Kings Point into the air. Ha:rriers face Clarkson by Paul Forbes In the long history of Union sports few can match the record of the cross-country squad. In the past ten years the Garnet have won a total of six meets. They own a streak of two years without a victory. However, things may change this year, for the team possesses a new coach and a sophomore dominated squad with good potential. This year's squad is out to remove the losing image from Union cross-country. Heading the group is Myron Fribush, the only returning letterman. In a recent practice meet he took first and broke a course record by a full mhtute. Backing him up are three good sophomores, Joe Burgess, John Braham, and the injured Terry McManus. Rich Cooperwasser has come on to round out the top f'we. Right behind this group are Mario Fischetti, Leo Wisniewski, and Jack Dickie. Coach Ron Coleman is optimistic for the coming season. He naturally hopes to improve on last year's record. But moreover he is laying the foundation for strong cross-country teams in the future. He hopes for a 2-3 season which would be the most successful campaign for Garnet harriers since 1958. T.HE PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeats from all over the world. 406 STATE ST. A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 Stale and Erie Blvd. NOW IN OUR 74th YEAR For reservations phone FR 4-8917 /T,;,u~~ AT 428 STATE .. STREET .JEWELERS ~'-----------------------P-H_O_N_E-----FR--4--0-18-3~~ ' ··.\' . Frosh To Face San'famsi by Walt Spencer Coach Bruce Allison and his assitant, Carl Taubert, face a most formidable task in preparing theit freshmen football team for its opening game at Trinity a week from today. the Trinity fresh will have had a month of practice, twice as . much as the Gamet yearlings. Because of their late starts, the Union frosh have never won an opening game. Last year, the frosh compiled a i 1·3 record. They beat RPI in their ''1 .final game, 54-0. ' The evaluation of personnel has r been slowed by the large number of i ·boys out for the squad, thirty-nine, '~I and by the frosh running Kings Point 1 plays all week to help the varsity . Vol. 981 ·Ma~r1 Wal;l Right inside Bob Okello heading the ball during Wednesday's scrimmage against Albany State. the Garnet won 3-0, aided by two goals by Okello. An offensive unit has been weld\\d togather. The blosking end is Jim Niver. The tackles are all-Nassau ' County pick Gary Morris and Frank ' Ferrara, who played his high school ball at St. Francis Prep in Brooklyn. The guards are Bill Simson and Scott Palmer. The center is Ed Young. The split end and flanker positions are up for grabs, with Mike Kumpf, brother of junior quarterback Scott Kumpf, Hunter Townsend, Larry Bloom, and Rumors candidate address T Union C4 queRched learned th p.m. tome State Capi It was r one ofWa was seekit which campaigni potential Booters Face Alfred In Opener; Look Impressive Against Albany by Mike Reger With the aid of a strong defense, the Garnet varsity soccer team defeated Albany State 3-0 in Wednesday's scrimmage. Coach Gary Brown was \pleased\ with the effort put forth by the defense and the fact that the offense started to jell. The regular season open Saturday with a home match with Alfred at noon. Junior Bob Okello, playing at the right inside position, led the offense against Albany with two goals. Union's third goal was scored by sophmore Bobby Dodd on a tremendous \header\ that completely evaded the Albany goalie. The defense looked good in preventing State from scoring. Coach Brown describes Saturday's opener as a good one because the Garnet will have to .play \decently\ to win. Union downed Alrred 2-0 in last yeax's contest. Starting in the goal will probably be Mike Pitt, a sophomore, in place of last year's starter, junior Chris Cartsonis, who is presently injured. Defensive staxters will be co-captain Brian Gillie at right halfback, Pete Palen at center halfback, Andy Sherman at left halfback, Bob MacKenzie at right fullback, and Walt Hutton at left fullback. Pete Dailey in the running. 1 The quarterback will probably be 't Bob Schiller. He will be handing off to Rick Jaszcak, a 49.0 quarter-miler, and Bill Corcoran. 11 considerin the All gymnasim Rink in L Field Hou All are juniors except Hutton, who is a senior. On the offensive line for Brown's boaters will be Okello at right inside, Dodd at left inside, senior co-captain Mike Solomon at left wing, soph Fred Mindlin at right wing, and senior Jim Wilson at center forward. The defense is less fixed, but a few players have impressed enough to win jobs. Allen Schade is at defensive end. Jay Keller will be playing defensive tackle, providing recovers from a shoulder strain. The in side linebackers will be Ken Cyboron and Bill Rogers, a converted fullback. One of the outside' linebackers will be Bob Mistretta. The cornerbackers will be Mike Mistretta, Bob's brother, who doubles as the back-up quarterback,' and Pete Keller, no relation to Jay. BONE 01' HBBRING .1. SPBCIALIT'Y The Establishment's chef d'oeuvre, for those of a tweedy persuasion, is herringbone, served in strictest purity. The ingredients are wool- lens of haute quality, workman- ship worthy of a gourmet, and cuts of the best. A tasty item, served daily. Vested at $75.00 to $100.00 Althou a UPI wir r Field Hm by the co said he hl to schoc ·~ building comment field hou ( the nurr Wallace~ Anoth1 Wallace < 19 administr asked, h< House a! because • 11 with the Colle stateme ,, however, claim in speakers The c · > \'- also elim Walla< Albany •)i 1 tomorro undisclo Capitol: p.m. .,.Pe ·) 4 j ·• I • I I ) . Peter, Candir Pet~ the PP in Me Friday candid supp01 mornil Th~ Roose· Giant mqt ~quirr ~4np *- ) I • .. Aft decisic appar~ allow Ed StL!de: previa rally event make comrr 326 STATE STREET, 377·3061 Open Thurs. 'til 9 .II ~

n \A Causa Persa Parole · Assai\ RE-UNION Page 2 , afams, tcer Founded at Union College 1877 on and his face a most eparing theit am for its , a week from )Sh will have :ice, twice as et yearlings. rts, the Union Vol. 98No. 4 ·Mart:in Denies Wal~lac·a 'Rumor by Bruce Husten Rumors that third-paFty presidential personnel has candidate George C. Wallace would ge number of address Tri-city residents from the i, thirty-nine, Union College Field House were 1g Kings Point queNched last night when it was 1e varsity. learned that Wallace will speak at 3 s been weldw .p.m. tomorrow from the steps 0f the SCHENECTADY, N.Y., OCTOBER 8, 1968 PRICE TWENTY CENTS Fraternity No-Contact Period Ends As The. Rush For Freshmen Begins Monday evemng s freshman to freshmen of spendmg tlme and of comm1,1nity proJects and seminars fraternity indoctri~ation meeting acquaintiNg themselves .with fraternity Dean James D. Palmer spoke on th~ paved the way to endmg the 1968 no members. He also pomted out that responsibility of the fraternities within contact period tonight at rn~dnight. f~ater_nities afford their members a the college col11111unity. ~ end is Jim State Capitol Building in Albany. cre all-Nassau I d h J G 1 d :ris and Frank t was reporte t . at · ames · ay or , D~n mead, Inter-Fratermty Council ~gh mtellectual atl?osphere and much Dean Palme{, summed up the Wallace: American Party Prestdent, addressed the 250 freshmen mter-class commun1cat10n. fraternity system by the word Candidate George Wallace addressing who attended the meeting in Memorial After Mead explained the new role \attitude\. The attitude to increase is high school one of Wallace's national coordinators, 1 in Brooklyn. ' was seeking a heated indoor site from an Albany rally. Chapel. Mead stressed the importance of the fraternity as leader and sponsor intellectual awareness in all phases of B • R h p • · Hfe · The true attitude he mentioned tsonand Scott which Wallace could do his :d Young. The campaigning in this area. Among the :>sitions are up potential sites the Wallace camp was rings . us Olnlers To Fros·h was'\~hink the tmportant part fratermhes umpf, brother J considering were the RPI Field House, Scott Kumpf, the Albany State University :Y Bloom, and gymnasium, Guptill's Roller Skating l mlg. b bl b ,, I( Rink in Latham and Union's Memorial pro a y e F' ld H >e handing off te ouse. . . . quarter-miler Although rumors - ongmatmg from ' a UPI wire story - circulated that the xed, but a few· t Field House had been refused Wallace enough to win by the college administration, Gaylord ; at defensive said he had never even gotten through I be to school officials to reserve the ier strain. The ~ill be Ken rs, a converted 'building. \Meanwhile Gaylord conunented, \we learned the college field house would be too small to hold ( the number ·of ~eople we expect Wallace will attract.\ the outside' J lob Mistretta. ;vill be Mike brother, who Another rumor concerning the Wallace appearances was that Union's ~~ administration would, had it been asked, have refused Wallace the Field House as a potential political forum 1 tt because of its alleged disagreement with the governor's political views. p quarterback,'P ttion to Jay. College officials released a statement yesterday afternoon, ·, however, denying such rumors and claiming that Union welcomes speakers of any politicaLoutlook. The other three indoor sites were · > \'- also eliminated for various reasons. Wallace, therefore, will arrive at the Alb any Airport at 12:30 p.m. •>' , 1 tomorrow, have luncheon at an undisclosed restaurant, speak at the · Capitol at 3 p.m. and depart around 5 p.m. Editors Note: Sophomore Garry Y arus, an independent, gives advice on the necessity ·Of fraternity rushing. Yarus is a veteran of rushing and pledging. by Gary Yarus The rush is on, and for a time much thought will be focused on the fraternity system :here at Union. Some maintain that the system itself blocks the development of a dynamic academic community. Others applaud our sixteen brotherhoods from the innermost part of their being. For the remainder of this term members of the Class of 1972 will be given the opportunity to prepare for a choice, a most important choice. Fraternity or Independent life? Though pledging a fraternity is certainly not for everyone, rushing is! During fall term, students are given the chance to closely exame the fraternity way. Experiencing the rush gives each freshman the irlformation he needs to make an educated choice. Most will agree that fraternity is not something to stumble into blindly. A few simple suggestions may make this year's rush slightly easier and perhaps a little more enlightening. Start fresh! For years brothers, uncles and cousins have packed your brain with all sorts of information about fraternities. Forget everything. :: · Peter, Paul And Mary © Te, on, est 101- m- nd j •.• ) . I • } . Peter, Paul and Mary: Popular folk group campaigns for Democmtic Senatorial Candidate Paul O'Dwyer. Peter and Mary, but not Paul, of The president said last night that he the PP&M folk-singing trio, will appear would meet with a representative of in Memorial Field House at· 9 p.m. O'Dwyer's supporters today and he D • Friday in support of Paul O'Dwyer's apparently made the final decision candidacy for U.S. Senator, O'Dwyer following that meeting. At the supporters told Concordiensis this meeting, O'Dwyer's supporters were morning. expected to present Dr. Martin with • · • They will sing and speak along with the names of those who .agreed to Roosevelt Grier, former New York appear. Giant football star, at the rally. Roosevelt Grier, the former The fraternity experience is a personal one. Dad's frat might have been the greatest place in the world. But, that was for Dad, not necessarily for you. Spread yourself out. Anyone will tell you that each house has its own personality. Nothing could be truer. Check out the \Rah Rah Houses\ as well as the \Turkey Farms\. After you've seen the spectrum, narrowing down will be an easier process done with greater awareness. Do your own thing. Try to avoid visiting houses irl packs. When alone, the brothers will get to know you better. Your appraisal of the house will be uninfluenced by others. If you're interested, visit. You don't have to wait for a call. If the house proves impressive, suggest to your friends that they stop by on their own. Avoid an entourage if possible. It isn't necessary to \move in\. C om b ining occasional meals and parties with getting to know a few of the brothers is all that need be done. Rushing should be a time consumer. You do not have to spend hours each day making a showing. By all means, don't fail to ask yourself the obvious question: Does this fraternity limit or tie me down? Are the brothers and rushees compatable with me? Is this where I'd like to livs for the next few years? How about the cost, 1ocation, reputation, etc? Remember, four years is a long time! Above all, freshman, look with your mind as well as your eyes. The appearance motif that runs throughout literature is also characteristic of the fraternity at rush time. During the rush weeks the fraters are salesmen, and you are the buyer. They're out to impress you, attract you, get you. Keep this in mind as you walk through any of the sixteen \perfect\ (ask houses found on the Union College Campus! As a pledge, it might be somewhat different. There you have it. Some words on rushing. If you end your rush term feeling that fraternity life is shallow, childish, outdated, empty game - yQur rush will have been usccessful. If rush leads you to a great house and a wonderful group of guys- your rush too will have been successful. If informed, whatever your choice, it will be a right one. O'DWYER SON CRITICIZES NIXON~ HUMPHREY ,JAYITS by Alan Klein Rory O'Dwyer, son of State Senatorial Candidate Paul O'Dwyer told a rally of Union students Friday that regardless of what happens in the future his father will not support Hubert Humphrey for President. The younger O'Dwyer stated that the vice president has so marred his record by his unswerving support of the Johnson administration's policies that no change of opinion would ever justify the elder O'Dwyer's support. The speaker also criticized his father's opponent, Sen. Jacob Javits, for his support of the Johnson Vietnam policy and also for his support of Richard Nixon in the current presidential campaign. • He said his father is pledged to become a voice against the Vietnam War in the senate and to seek to prevent similar wars in the futute. Ed Rundell, county co-ordinator of the Young Citizens for O'Dwyer, stressed the importance of the part youth can play in the campaign. He predicted, '\The day will eventually come when the youth of America can take over our creaky, outmoded political system, when we can make the parties listen to what we have to say. Paul O'Dwyer can help to hasten the coming of that day.\ historically have played in student life. The dean concluded by saying the attitude which stimulates intellectual growth and better responsivene$S as an individual, attained from fraternities, makes one a better man. A third speaker, coincidentally named Dan Mead, a local alumnus of Psi Upsilon and Union graduate, class of ·so, personalized the fraternity as a \Home away from home\. He said that a fraternity tends to make one feel more relaxed and comfortable. The meeting concluded with the reading of rushing rules, and the introduction of the fraternity presidents. Questions followed and IFC President Mead unveiled plans for various seminars in the tri-city area with high school seniors dealing with such topics as drugs or sex. ~ \\\' ... . \ O'Dwyer: Rory O'Dwyer, son of senatorid Cl.llldidate Paul 0 'Dwyer speaks at Library Plaza. College Will Nominate Four Seniors To Watson Fellowship Union is one of 25 \outstanding liberal arts colleges of moderate size\ in the nation selected to participate in the new Thomas J. Watson Foundation Fellowship program, President Harold C. Martin announced. The fledgirlg program will enable college graduates of outstanding promise to engage in an initial postgraduate year of independent study and travel abroad. Independent Fete Dravvs Crovvd The Davidson Entertainment Committee and the Union Inter-Residence Council termed its party this past Saturday \the most successful non-fraternity party in the history of Union College.\ upperclassmen were present. The DEC and UIC were considering similar activities for Homecoming and Fall Weekends. They are trying to determine campus reaction to these possibilities. Each Watson Fellowship will carry a stipend of $6,000 for single students and $8,000 for married students. A fellow's program, devised independently or with outside assistance, will enable the recipient to independently pursue a program of activity toward which'l;te already has a personal orientation. The fellow will also be able to explore an alternative field of potential interest. About 20 percent of the fellowships will be awarded to those of Black Puerto. Rican, or American India~ ancestry. All graduating seniors re~~rdless of their career plans, will b~ eligible for fellowship consideration. r , · 0 After two days of uncertainty, the pro-football star and an aide to the decision was made this morning, late Senator Robert F. Kennedy, had apparently by President Martin, to accepted an invitation to provide It showed, according to Paul Fox, a member of the committee, that Independents can have a legitimate social status by themselves without having to be \hangers-on\ at fraternity events. David Zapata stressed the purpose of their organization is not purely social. It aims both to provide a social outlet open to all students on the Union campus and also to spark student interest in various cultural, intellectual, and contemporary problems. Union will select four nominations each year, for a total of 100 nominations in the program. Following personal interviews, 50 fellows will be selected nationally. I ' allow the group to appear. entertainment at the rally by Monday. Ed Rundell '71, leader of Union's The famed folk singers will appear Stl!dents for O'Dwyer said Dr. Martin tomorrow at a rally in New York City previously withheld approval of the for the Senatorial hopeful. Others rally because he \did not feel the performing at that rally are Judy J ' event will have educational benefits or Collins - slated for Fall Weekend ' make for better relations in the entertainment here next month community.\ Tom Paxton and Theodore Bike!. Open to the entire campus, the party was similar to the one sponsored by the group last May. Liquor punch was served throughout the cocktail hour and band party. About 75 couples including both freshmen and Tentative future pJans for non-social events include speakers and debates on various topics of interest to the college campus in general. A forum on homosexuality may be arranged. The Watson Foundation anticipates that in succeeding years, a fellowship may be renewed for a second year.

(!lonrnr ·Pubhshlad TuE'sdav and Fnd.av dur- ,ing the schoo I VE'Hr hv tht> SturiPnt Body of Union Coll~ge. Schent. .. ctudy. N.Y. Na.lwndl Adveortxs·ing :Re-pn~­ sent at tve-; Nat iona'l Educ uLtonal Advcrt1s1ng Servtct ... Inc., C'ulh.\~t' :PubltshE\rs Rt .. prE.\sE>ntuttve 360 'Lexmgtl..)n AvenuP, N. Y. C. Editorial Gffice. Old Gym, Union CollE>ge. Pubbcatwn Office, White- hurst Printing & Binding ·Co., Inc., 416-418 F1fth Ave., Troy, 2.35-4450. · · Entt>rc:-d 1n the Schl .. nectad;r Post Ofhct\ a5 St~cond Clc.:~,ss Ma.il Matter. Subscription 20¢ a copy; ·$6 a year d~hv!.\'rt>d anvwhere 1n the Ur:~ited States. SENIOR BOARD D. Peter Drotman '69 .......... 346-8614 ............ Co-:Editor in Chief Jeffrey C. Browne '69 .....•... 346-9973 ............ Co-:Editor in Chief . • 'Richard Lewis '70 ............. 346-1932 ............. Business Manager William Ouzer '71 ............. 377-8613 .............. Managing Editor Allen Gartner '71. ............. 377-8613 ................. News Editor Paul Andrews '71 ....................................... Features Editor· LeonardSim en 70 ...................................... Sports Editor Paul Famharh '70 ..................................... Associate Editor Alan Klein '69 ............................................ Copy Editor · JUNIOR BUARD ' Richard Kramer '71 ....................................................... Photography Editor · Henry Fein '71 ........................................................ Associate Sports Editor Peter Weingold '7l ................................................ Associate Features Editor Alan Cohen '71 .................................................... Assistant Features Editor Michael Swirsky '70 ........................................ National Advertising Mru1ager Jon Brunswick '70 ....................................................... Distribution Director Carl Goldsand '70 ......................................................... Circulation Manager. Larry Roth blum '70 ................................................... Subscription Manager Jerry Levine '71.. ................................................ Local Advertising Manager ' ·Jeff Birn '71 ....................................................... Local Advertising Manager There's No Rush \THINK\ DON'T DRINK' Dean James D. Palmer told freshman about to begin ten weeks of rushing at Union's 16 fraterniti('S. The idyllic erux of what mshing ought lo be for fraternities is the justifi<.;ation of their very existence at Union. \lon~owr. ideal is a condition rushing has never approadwJ in the past. In facL many freshmen and frat<Ttlilv nH'Il hav<· calkd it unsatisfactory. 'laive. uLout fraternitiet3, must freshm~n begin rushing them expecting to dnour free meals. enjoy wild drunks and join a social club. :\nd fraternities have done little to disquit·t the rumor or rt•volu tioniz<' the image, as the case · may be. In the past. frakrnities hav<' employed various sales technique~ from proviJing an untrue pichue, to virtual brib(•ry. to lure freshmen. They have been l<·s~ honest to freshmen than frosh have L(~en to fratc·rnities. Rushinu fails miserably, and so do fraternities, if b ntslu~es join fratc·rnities because they are bribed, brain-wa....;hed. threatened or misled. Rushinu is an unfortunate choice uf word for the b • upcoming t~xposure of freshmen to upperclassmen pnor to pledging in Jaruar). It officially hegim; at midnight tonight, but thul does nut mean that frosh ought to go out m1d find a fratt•rtlity lo pkc..lgc tomorrow. Then· is no rush. ~or should there be. Rushing must become an opportunity for all open-minded freshmen simply to find out what a fraternity is and what the differences are among Union's 1 (J houses. We ask that the lnter-Frat<~rnity Council and the individual hou~cs take an active part in reforming the attitud1~s as opposed to the rules that traditionally have accompanied what is essentially a sound system of open contact. W<· urge freshmen to think and karn ahout fratl'rnitit~s. rather than drink tlwir way into them. Choice 68 If it doubtful that anyone pays attention to college studt·nts' vi(·ws on national affairs. tlw R<~publiean and D!'lllU!'falie Comentions this sumnwr hdpcd pt·ovc thl' case. Tlu~ common assumption that this year·~ ehoict' for Pn~sident of the United State~ is generally unacceptable to many eollcgt• studt~nts at l. 1 nion and aeross the eountr~ i;; ~upporkd by statisties suppli<~d last spring by Tinw magazinL Looking in rdrosp(~ct at the nation-wide primary of coll<~ge stud<~nts. ealled Choic<· '68, the statistics ironieall) indicate· tltal most studl'nts of voting age have a choice l.wtween what they consider two evils. Eugene \lcCarthy was the overwhelming choice at lJn ion College. He tallit'd 486 votes among studPnts hC'rC' and was followt'd on tlw democratic sidt• by Robert 1\.Pnnedy with 218. Hulwrt Humphrey was Hot on till' ballot, Lut ewn if lw wt•n· we suspect lw would haw h!'('n elos!' to shut out lwn·. lie wasn \t on the ballot lwcat1sc Prt•sident johnson (who weciH:d only 21 votc·s from llnionites) was. On the Republican side. :\elson Rockefellt•r for 177 vot1~s as the first ehoiet' of Union students. Richard Nixon ran a distant st·eond with 121. George Wallace got two. Th(' pieture among students across tlw country wasn't much difft·n·nt. So the Choirc '68 boils down to an ekction among the fourth. sixth and devt~nth choiec; of Union College. by Paul Andrews Well, someone finally got to the \Keep America Beautiful: Get a Haircut\ billboard on Nott Terrace street iH downtown Schenectady. The motley-looking hippie type has 11ow been endowed with a full beard and slogan: \God grows his own\. Meanwhile at ·last report the billboard's counterpart ncar the Big N shopping center was still! untouched. Both billboards were strategically situated on the campus outskirts courtesy of your friendly loco WOKO radio stat ion specializing in country com music. WOKO's concept of beautification. seems to entail crewcuts and cleanshaves. We, however, would suggest the revts1on' \Keep America B·eautiful: Get Rid of Billboards\. Add notes of encouragement: The first Big Brother gathering this year drew a sizeable lot of interested Union men - while an RE: UNION equally healthy showing was made simultaneously for new leftist Philip Abbott Luce. Luce, the temper of whose background was for more revolutions-slanted than his comments, came on articulate a!i!d pragmatic evidently to the dismay of some and satisfaction of others. The Political Forum and Abby Stillman should in any case be congratulated for bringing Luce here. Hopefully their future speakers will be equally as stimulating. The search is on for Robert Cui p' s summer co-ttage somewhere in Schenectady. Those of you who caught Laugh-In last night witnessed Culp's public admission that he had a summer retreat he did:n't want the missus to get wind of. If you didN't see Laugh·lfl, ask the guy next to you. Ask him about the Hubert Humphrey television commercial, too. What has Richard Nixon done for you? OC) oO Strides in Higher Education: the Intercollegiate Press reports that Harvard's Faculty of Arts and Sciences will permit each student to take one course each year markeo only pass or fail. Otherwise the student will be graded as on the 12-point system. More than once have both students and professors cxpl'essed the opinion that a similar scheme could be instituted at Upion. The tr·aditional .argument favoring one pass-fail course is tha.t it would permit the Center II major to dabble in the arts and the Cent~r I major to dabble in the sciences ~ with no risk of injuring their grade index. The traditional and fast-be- coming-outmoded argament against the pass-fa,il is that grad schools won't honor such marks, thereby reducing the student's chances of getting into a good grad school. Also, some administrators have expressed the opinion that if students were pennit.ted to take a· pass-fail course they would leave their studies and go to pot. Or drink more beer. Oh, well, as it is grades only hurt when you quaff. The topic might be broached at the next faculty council meeting, though. From the History Department comes the Spenish·American War proverb: San Juan Hill, you seen 'em all. Well if you don.t like it contribute something, please: 252 Davidson, 393-7378, or someone from Concordy. Anything of gP.neral interest and printable substance is solicited. More revolution: Tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the Hale House Lounge Father James Murphy and the Newman Association will provide fuel for polemics with a discussion and film on Vietnam. Also, don't forget Professor Nichols' talk on \Che: The Hero Who Failed\ (see p. 3 for story) at 7:30p.m. Thursday in Hale House. Eldridge Cleaver, Peace and Freedom Party presidential candidate will be at RPI at 8 p.m. Thrusday. The number to call for one of the limited advance reservations is 270-6511. IF YOU WANT THE TRADITIONAL LOOK •.• LOOK FOR THE TRADITIONAL LABELl GREAT DIVIDE Separates men from boys in \Endura-Press\ oxford of 65%Dacron/ 35%cotton with soil· r-elease . , . in 9 colors. DAVES MEN'S & BOYSf 453 State St. Schnectady, N.Y. ti' DACRON POlo. YESTER IS DUPONT 5 REG. T,M. Alp~ Blither. E si A clinic, at which flu sjl.ets will be 1 p offered to faculty, staff and students will be held in Silliman Hall on If 1 Tu·esday, Octo·ber 15, and Wednesday, October 23, from 11:30 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. The fo fraternith * * * * * The first tournament of this year's student-faculty ·Bridge Club will be held tonight at 8 p.m. at the Hale Ho1,1se Faculty Lounge. Anyone . W3\lting to jein the Bridge Club is invited to attend. , for use b and refer< period. Michael Fishman and Steven Krischner, last year's co-winners, will ~ be back in defense of their championship. Top challengers will include Mr. Usher, who last year finished third; Professor Lambert; 1 Paul Checkovich; Michae:l Levin-Epstein; Michael Klayman; Peter Siegel and Dennis Meyers. Alpha 01 south 346-91 p r e s natio11 1859. Beta Th Place Yelto1 natim * * * * * \ .. A one night performance -of \.America Hurrah\ three 9ne-act plays by Jean Claude Van ltallie, wHl be presented Saturday, October 12 at' 8:30 p.m. in Page Hall at S.U.N.Y., Albany. The plays are sponsored by the Dramatic ·Council of the · University. Tickets for ''America, I • Hurrah\ are available at the State · University Box ·Office in the Campus Center weekdays from 10:00 a.m. to 4:00p.m. •>1 • * * * * * A summary of the \Niemeyer Report\ on co-education is available in the residence halls and fraternity Y• ' 1881. Chi Psi - of 346-9 p r·e s founc Delta Cl 346- pre: natio1 1902 Delta Pl 372-~ pres foun< Delta { Plact Oneg natio 1838 • -Kappa Plac houses. Students who have not received a copy should see the RA or fraternity president of their living units. This report is a summary of a ., lengthy and exhaustive study on the subject by a committee of the faculty, and was mentioned in President Martin's address at the'·· • Convocation on October 1. At 11:30 this morning, Professor Niemeyer had a meeting in Memorial Chapel to discuss this report and a''' I. questionnaire was distributed to ascertain student reactions. ~----------------------~)/ . MIDTOWN BARBER SHOP San1 Nati< in H Phi Del Alex Paul Fom local Phi Ep Roa Werl nati< 191l Phi Gm Pla< All Haircuts done: by Appoint- ·i: \ ment from Tues. thru Fri. Ap- pointments not necessary Sat. 515 UNION ST. 3774010 JAY BILLIARD LOUNGE 167 JAY ST. SPECIAL RAT6S FOR , , G p • lro I )) I • ~.' ' COLLEGE STUDENTS , , f. Bring Your Dates Free Parking In Rear I) z: • 01 *S • photo \Swin packa il lt POS' Wood cash, c.o.r Inglish leather®\ For men who want to be where the ',,,) 1 action is. Very racy. Very mascu• line. ALL-PURPOSE lOTION. $2.50, $4.00, $6.50. From the cam· ; plete array of ENGL.fSH LEA 'tHeiR .. 1 • i .. m~~:s toiletries, · · .. /\:PRODUCT OF MEM COMPANY, 'INC., NORTHVAlE, N. ]. ~~~/~ tl cable • • • paid) rial rr guan 9 (ind Larg Stap Unc1 .At a

s)l.ets will be i and students · Alpha,Beta,Gam·ma,Delta, Epsilon, Zeta, Eta, T •••••• '70 to Meet The Class of '70 will elect a • member to the Alumni Council and make class plans • for 11pcoming weekends at a '. meeting Thursday in room • · 0 16 of the Social Sciences · 'Bl:lilding. The meeting will • begin at 11 :30 A.M. . man Hall on •r , r 15, and from 11:30 Fraternity List The following data about the fraternities at Union is intended * t of this year's Club will be at the Hale Anyone . Club is f for use by f~eshmen as a guide and reference during the rushing period. Alpha Delta Phi - located just south of Memorial Chapel; 346-9688. David 0. Eddy, president. Founded nationally in 1832, locally in 1859. I and Steven r will~ of their will last year Lambert; h; Michad ael Klayman; Beta Theta Pi - 206 Seward Place; 374-1771. Everett Yelton, president. Founded nationally in 1839, locally in 1881. Chi Psi - Located just sovtheast '' ·• of Memorial Chapel'; Meyers. * rformance <Of 346-9829. John .Strickland, three ~me-act pre side n t. Nationally Hallie, w;u founded here in 1841. October 12 at' Delta Chi - l48I Lenox Road; at S.U.N.Y., 346 9973 J ff B sponsored by . •· . . e , rowne, of the , p r e s i d e n t . F o u n de d ''America, J ' at the State · in the Campus 1@: 00 a.m. to * \Niemeyer is available •li • and fraternity J• ' have not see the RA or nationally in 1890, locally in 1902. Delta Phi - :1241 Lennox Road; 372-9759. William Neidel, president. Nationally founded here in 1827. Delta Upsilon - 21 0 Seward Place; 346-9776. Gregory Oneglia, president. Founded nationally in 1834, locally in I838. their living summary of a ·11 e study on the of the 1 -Kappa Alpha - 200 Seward Place; 346-9I47. David S anderspree, president. Nationally founded at Union in 1825. mentioned in at the '· t l. At 11 : 30 Niemeyer had Chapel to Phi Delta Theta - located above Alexander Field; 346-9730. and a ''' 1.· ted to Paul Costello, president. Founded nationally in 1848, locally in 1883.. • Phi Epsilon PPi - 1247 Lenox Road; 346-9959. Steve Werlin, president. Founded nationally in 1904, locally in p j If; 1918. Phi Gamma Delta - 216 Seward Place; 3 72-0172. Robert by Appoint- ·i: \ Fri. Ap- Sat. N ST. ST. STUDENTS Dates In Rear , .Giant Poster • from any photo I >J I • \ f, i T r u m b uti , p r e s i d e nt. Founded nation.ally in. 1848, locally in I893. Phi Sigma Delta · I30 I Lenox Road; 372-9772. Glen Rappaport, president. Founded nationally in 1909, locally in. 1914. Phi Sigma Kappa - 1461 Lenox Road; 346-9735. J. Chris Clarke, president. Founded nationally in 1873, locally in 1888. Psi Upsilon - Located east of Memorial Chapel; 346-9330. John G liddem, president. Founded nationally at Union in 1833. Sigma Chi · 1471 Lenox Road; 346·9582. Brian Crandall, p r e s i de n t. F o u nd e cl nationally in 185 5, locally in I923. Sigma Phi - Located smtth of Memorial Chapel; 346-9225. Clint Weyrauch, president. Ed Buzak, class president, said the agenda includes · discussions on a hayride during Fall Weekend, A . Winter Weekend Dinner Dance and a party during Spring Weekend. Pete Garrison is class vice~pFesident, Mike Keesee is secretary and Jeff Knetzer is treasurer. Founded nationally-at Union in 1827. Theta Delta Chi - 145I Lennox Road; 346~9272. Clement Johnson, president. Founded nationally at Union in 1847. Andersonville Trial Set For Novembe.r ,Premier M.F.A. fr.om Columbia University in 1968. He directed several shows at Yale and Columbia as well as at the Mount Clemens, Michigan, summer stock theatre, including Guys and Dolls, Androcles and the Lion, Dracula, and him by e.e. cummings. Well was associated with Arthur Penn while the latter was directing the Broadway hit, How Now, Dow Jones, and is a member of the Society of Stage Directors and Choreographers. The Mountebanks, the Union College Drama Club, begins the new school year with a new Director of Theatre, Henry Weil. For Weil's first directing e f f o rt a t U n i o n , t he Mountebanks have chosen The Andersonville Trial by Sam Levitt. Production is scheduled for two consecutive weekends in the middle of November. Try-outs will begin Tuesday, October 8. Students interested in trying out for a part should sign for an appointment on the list posted in the lobby of the Nott Meorial Theatre. After his first venture, Well would like to bring some avant-garde theatre and a play by Aristophanes to Union. Conunenting on his plans, Well said, \We (the Mountebanks) exist not just for Union College, but for the community at large and for that reason will always try to do plays of quality.\ Well, a native of Detroit, received his B.A. from Yale University in 1966 and his Newest Birds Fourteen high school seniors have already been accepted into Union's Class of '73 under the \Early-bird\ decision program. Eight have already enrolled and the others are obligated to do so in writing. Weil spent the sununer working as an assistant editor for a new edition of Shakespeare's works, soon to be published. Attention Seniors! Graduate Record Examinations are offered on October 26 and December 14 in 1968 .and on January 18, February 22, April 26, and July I2 in I 969. Individual applicants should be sure that they take the test in time to meet the deadlines of their intended graduate school, graduate department, or fellowship granting age n c y. Early registration also ensures that the individual can be tested at the location of his choice and without having to pay the three dollar late registration fee. )) I .• ....... ,_ ... -., .. , .. ,, ..... - ......... ,; I Z £t. X 3ft. do it!··,)~ • only $11'.,95* Harold Young Jr., senior at New York City's Bronx High School of Science, was the first to be admitted. Union's Black Alliance interested Young in the college. He plans to begin his studies in the liberal arts with an eye toward entering the ministry. The GRE's in this program include an Aptitute Test of general scholastic ability and Advanced Tests of achievements in 22 major fields of study . Candidates determine from their preferred graduate schools or fellowship committees which of the examinations they should taken md when they should be taken. ($4.95 value) • - *Send any black & white or color l) • photo (no negatives) and the name An application for the \Early-bird\ program must have his credentials into the Union admissions office by Sept. 15. Luce Attacks New Left Larry Friedman In reference to a speech by Eldridge Cleaver emphasizing mob violence, black racism, and \Pussey Power\ Philip Abbott Luce told about 70 people \I'm not interested after an hour and a half (0f Cleaver's speech} in hearing that shit.\ change. It would be useless to overthrow the system and thereby rid ourselves of the safeguards which now protect our rights. Q. What do you feel is the solutioN to America's ghetto problem? A. A negative income tax. Black power in the sense that the blacks will be in control of their own situation. But it must not be unde.r government control; the help must come from big business. Q. How do you £eel about the McCarren Act, and the related HUAC pamphlet? A. By the way, I wrote that pamphlet. Luce spoke yesterday in Socia'! Sciences 016 on the American political scene in a speech sponsored by the Political Forum. Mr. L1:1ce, a former member of the pro-Chinese Community Progressive Labor Movement, \ has written The New Left in addition to several magazine articles and a pamphlet for the House Un-American Activities Committee. Characterizing himself as a right-wing libertarian, Luce said that whi'le he was not opposed to \honest\ draft registers, he condemned those who used the anti-draft movement as a \cop-out\. He would rather see a volunteer army instead of the present system. On the Students for a Democratic Society, \which in the early '60's could be supported, and now has used the free speech argument to deny the right of others\ he said that the strain of extra-legal action which has permeated the youth on campuses will eventually backfire in the form of hard-line government retaliation. Luce thinks that the New Left totally intolerant of any opposition. lf the leftists do not stay within legal means, he believes, the reaction of the government will be so profound as to seriously impair The Free Speech Movement. Luce then attacked Eldridge Cleaver, Black Panther Leader, Ramparts editor, and presidential candidate on a fourth party ticket, as a \racist rapist.\ C omenting on a Cleaver speech which he recently attended, Luce said, \it was reminiscent of a Nazi meeting in the 1930's.\ Cleaver cut loose with abscenities referring to Ronald Reagan, Max Rafferty, Lyndon Johnson, and George Wallace. -\It was frightening to watch.\ Luce believes that the white student followers of- Cleaver enjoy being verbally whipped as a masochist cop-out. Cleaver's mob psychology scares him. Following his opening comments, Luce called for questions from the audience: (please note that some questions and answers are paraphrased.) Q. Most people acknowledge the growing pressure for change from yo1.1th. lf this pressure is slackened, will hardened adult attitudes soften? A. Pressure should not be continued extralegally. Operate within the system; use legal pressure; and in that way force a New Left commentator Philip Luce speaks to a Political Forum gathering in SS 016. Perfect symbol of the love you share >. . ' \\.. '., ·~ ,, :::~; ~~~J ~'4~~ Being with each other, doing things together . . . knowing that your affection is growing into precious and enduring love. Happily, all these cherished moments will be forever symbolized by your diamond engagement ring. If the name, Keepsake. is in the ring and on the tag, you are assured of fine quality and lasting satisfaction. The engagement diamond is flawless, of superb color, and precise modern cut. Your Keepsake Jeweler will assist you in making your selection ... He's in the yellow pages, un.der \Jewelers T.? _..,. ~~JSTERED k ~12sa .. e® DIAMOND RINGS \Swingline\cut out from anySwingline package (or reasonable facsimile) to: ; 1 lt POSTER-MART, P.O. Box 165, Woodside, N.Y. 11377. Enclose $1.95 cash, check, or money order (no C.O.D.'s), Add sales tax where appli- Acme Barber Shop PEGGY'S RESTAURANT tl cable. Poster rolled and mailed (post· paid) in sturdy tube. Original mate- rial returned undamaged. Satisfaction ~) t guaranteed. 509 Union Street Special 100:0 Discount For ,, -1 be where the Vefy masou• lOTION, From the cam· LEA 'tHeiR . ··,1.' NC., NORTHVALE, N.J: ~~~/'i I • Get a Swingline Tot Stapler 98c (including 1000 staples) Larger size CUB Desk ~~~ Stapler only $1.69 Unconditionally guaranteed. .At any stationery, variety, or book store. s~INC. LONG ISLAND CITY, N.Y.1tt01 Experienced Barbers Nearest to Union College Students ..... ~---------------- .. ----, 1 For All Your Paint ~ 1 and Hardware Needs ! 1 & Cleaning Supplies : • See Us l I I I I I CAPITOL PAINT & : I HARDW AR·E co. 1 J 730 STATE ST. J ' ' J Phone FR 4-412 3 : L---~~-~-----------·--1 Union Students On $10 Meal Tickets 428 STATE ST. Call 346-9560 TIME CENTER JEWELERS Your Authorized Keepsake Dealers ' Any Questions? Call fR 4-0183 428 STATE STREET LEE CROWN ROYALTY Rings from $100 to $10,000. lllustrations enlarged to show beauty of detail. ® Trade-mark reg. A. H. Pond Company, Inc,, Est. 1892. r-----------~----------------~ 1 HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING 1 I Please send new 20-page booklet, \How To Plan Your Engage- I 1 ment and Wedding\ and new 12-page full color folder, both for 1 1 only 25c • .A:Iso, send special offer of beautiful44-page Bride's Book. 1 I F-66 I I Name I ~~~ I I I I City I l State . Zip l I KEEPSAKE DIAMOND RINGS, BOX 90, SYRACUSE, N. Y. 13201 I L---~--------------~---------~

i' BEAT HAMILTON! Concordy Sports ALPHA to OMEGA Page 3 M:isc,ues LeadTo 19-13 Grid Loss byHemyFein Costly mistakes, including five pass interceptions, and a possible career-ending injury to Craig Carlson were especially dark spots in Saturday's 19-13 loss to Kings Point on Alexander Field. Two of the misguided tosses resulted in Mariner touchdowns, as Garnet Quarterback Ken Pearce had a poor 17 for 37 afternoon. The Garnet scored first, as defensive halfback Stave Ciesinski intercepted a Tyler Caruso pass and raced to the Mariner 23. Although the subsequent Union drive fell a yard short of six points, the Garnet quickly scored as CiesiRski returned the KiQgs Point first-down punt to the 27. Five plays later, Joe James took the ball in for the score. Jim Sabella's extra point attempt was blocked. The first Kir~gs Point interception quickly led to a score, as defensive halfback Ken Grinage raced to the Garnet 25 with the grab. Caruso scored on a quarterback sneak ten plays later, and Don Cocozza's PAT put the Mariners on top to stay. Only four plays after C'iesinski made his secoRd interception of the half, Cocozza grabbed an underthrown square-out pass intended for Rich Swan and raced down the sideline 21 yards for the touchdown. Star halfback Bob Laninia sparked the first long drive of the afternoon, as the Mariners moved the opening kickoff of the second half 63 yards in 10 plays to put the game on ice. Lavinia capped the drive with a three-yard bust off right tackle. In all, the hard-running Mariner gained 149 yards of the 213 picked up by Kings Point on the ground. Another Mariner score was closely prevented when Tom Obherst recovered a fumble on the Garnet 13 on the first play of the fourth quarter after Kings Point had marched from their own 20 in 13 plays. Flanker Craig Carlson digs for extra yardsage after taking a pass from Garnet quarterback Ken Pearce. Carlson had four catches for 38 yards before being injured while returning a kickoff. After an exchange of punts, the Garnet marched 68 yards in 15 plays for their final score. Art Jacobs, who had replaced Clarson after the latter's injury on a kickoff return, grabbed a four-yard pass from Pearce with 6:22 left. Important plays on the drive were a 19-yard completion to Swan, two pass interference calls, and runs of 11 and 12 yards by James, who gained 87 yards in 21 tries for the day. Once again, the offensive line failed to impress. The pass protection was only fair at best, and few decent holes were opened up for the running backs. In general, the choice of plays also left much to be desired. Especially with passing, little imagination or originality was evident, and the Kings Point defenders often seemed to know exactly what the Garnet would do. ~£~.~.;; .. ;-::-\~. ~· ' ., & i~ll·\'.­ \'. ~~·; . ~ ;..~ ~~ ,,~..._- .. - t:r· ·' \~.;- .l. ,.~ .,., ,.~. ·'~~ • . ·¥: __ ) ,~.,.~~ ·' - .'~ e~~~~ . Dutchman's Quarterback Ken Pearce about to be decked by pursuing King's Point_ linebacker after eluding a sprawling defender. 'For three Generations.' Those Who Know ... Have been recommending - HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER \3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'' 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY . -~ i·:··· ... ·_.··. ' ... ·<j . . :. ' ·~ .. ,: f:: 0''<'> ... ··-,i ~· ,, ••.. t~!;f~~~t{~i' . Co-captain :Brian Gillie races after the ball as an Alfred defender pursues in S:aturday's varsity soccer victory. Chris Swan, at right, watches the Jilan develop. Double Soccer Win Vars.i.fy, 5-4 by Nike Reger The G<Ir:llet varsity soccer team qpenec! their regular season on Saturd<Iy- with a 54 victmy over Alfred. Leading the scoring for the D\ttchmen was senior Jim Wilson, ]Jlaying in the center foward position, who booted in four goals.. Soph Bobby Dodd contributed the other Garnet score. Union junlped out to a quick 4-1 lead on three goals in a row by Wilson and one by Dodd during the first quarter. Wilson's fourth goal during the second period boQsted the Garnet lea.d to 5-2. During the third period, the only .scoring was a hotly contested g•()al by the Saxons. The goal caiffie at the end of the third periodi when time had mn out but the .gun failed to fire. A penalty was charged to Union after time had elapsed and Alfred scored on a penalty kick. The SaX()tJ.S closed out the scoring wit:h a fourth quarter goal scored from a corner kick The Ga:m.et controlled the ball during the game and received a good performance from sophomore goalie Mike Pitt, substituting for Chris Cartsonis. Junior Bob Okello saw limited action on :Saturday due to an injury but he is expected to be in top condition for 'today's game at h<Jrme with University of Rochester, a tea.m that Union has not beaten in four years. Rochester is rated one of Gamet's to'llgher opponents this season. Also f11is week, Coach Brown's llc:;oters will meet St. Lawrence i:11 a home contest at 3:00P.M. ·0:11 Thursday. CE:R·CONE'S ATLI.\tiTIC Sl A TID N F inEs;t, Gasoline In Sdienectady Guaramteed Service 711 Non: ST. 377-9866 .fresh, 2-0 by Stu Moss In its final tune-up before tornorro w' s opener against Middlebury, Union's freslunan soccer team beat Fulion Montgomery Community College Monday 2-0. The squad was led by Art Fraser's two goals. Dave Block in goal produced the shutout. Despite the win, Coach Robert Benson was disappoiuted by the team's performance. 'The squad didn't look as impressive as when they beat and tied the varsity in two scrimmage games last week. Although he feels that this year's team is the strongest in his four years tenure as coach, with excellent ball-handling as one of its chief assets, the squad has not leaned to play as a unit. There is also not eno·ugh communication between the players on the field in looking for the open man or going after the ball. Against the usual strong Middlebury team tomorrow, the Gamet frosh will be looking to revenge a 5-0 loss it received last year. Coach Benson knows that his boys will have to play better than they did yesterdau and really be \up\ in order to v.rin. The starting line-up has solidified and will consist of Dave Block in goal, Tom Hough and Don Clarey as the fullbacks, Pierre Roumain and Art Fraser at the inside, Halfbacks Don Bergner and Larry Mullnan and Ross Dexter; Myles Rickard and Ira Turret at the wings and center Ford Stricker. Game time is 2:30 at Garris Field. The PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP 262 Saratoga Road MAYFAIR SHOPPING CEH'TER At the Sign of the Red Neon P'ipe TUES. thru SAT. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. als«:» THURS. and FRI.: 7 to 9 PM SCOTIA, N. Y. Phone 399-1630 Vinirks Men's Shop Specialists in Collegiate Wear Sl4 State Street Cit Lafayette Park & Shop Free Parking SIMON SEZ by ,LEN SIMON Craig Car.lson's football career appears finished as a result of the , 1 injury he suffered Saturday in the loss .to King's Point. He sustained a badly dislecated knee after returning a Mariner kickoff to midfield in the third peri0d. Visiting with Craig yesterday, he appeared in goGd spirits, but people in the know have already made the assumption that he will be unable to compete in :football or basketball for his remaining time Vol. 9~ at Union. . . , 1 ~ The loss will be a great one for Ua10n. Carlson has been as asset , . I C3n every tea.m he has been a member of, and his .great moves and sure hands will be missed by Quarterback Ken Pearce, and by split end Rich :Swan, both of whose performances will be hindered by .the . loss of Carlson. Pearce will have oae less target .to throw to, while Swan will receive much closer attention with Carlson sidelined. Last season Carlson was injured returning a kick versus William~'!, and the Garnet failed to win a game after that loss. He went down like the competitor he is in both cases, having been slowed to a halt, but fighting for as much yardage as possible. While held stationary by one tackler, he was hit from the side by another, the latter blow. 1 causing the injury. A waiting Examination •.. ~ .e··· ., OUT() Craig was ·operated on Saturday, and is awaiting examination ., 1 , Friday to determine whether another operation is necessary. He is Ellis Hospital, Room 155, and cards or personal visits would be greatly appreciated. A hospital is a lonely place! A replacement for ·Carlson will ;be hard to come by, but Art ~ .: Jacobs is the most likely candidate. If Coach George Flood elects to shuffle his. lineup, he may try Gerry Ostrander at flanker, in order to use his 9.9 speed and take the pressure off Swan. Ostrander sat out . Saturday's contest, but hopefully will return to the lineup with the ' gridders travel to Rochester. John Burton, Kevin Monahan, and Steve Ciesinski all sustained injuries Saturday, and the status of the three is not yet known. Wilson Stars On the brighter side of the Union College sports, Senior Jim H Wilson ma.de Coach Gary Brown look good as the soccer team opened with a 5-4 win over Alfred. Wilson, converted from defense to offense, took up the slack left by an injury to Robert Okello b.y booting home four scores in the contest. Okello should return to '· action today against Rochester. Other scores involving Garnet football opponents saw Williams squeak by Rochester 7-6, Hamilton came from behind to squelch . RPI, 35-32, C.W.Post trounced Alfred 34-0, and St. Lawrence ' crushed Hobart 42-6. On the basis of these and other previous results, the 1·1 Garnet gridders appear to have a good shot at a winning season despite crippling injuries and early season ,, . sluggishness. Hamilton, RPI, Alfred, and Hobart all appear to be in the midst of mediocre to poor seasons, and should have trouble coping with the Garnet in any phisical condition. Rochester and Williams appear tough, the latter on past reputation and returning lettermen, and the former on the basis of last week's score. (i The 1 student lack of regardinJ ~Larry Commu1 Next year's football campaign may stretch to nine games, with the addition of a contest at Wesleyan to open the season. The game , would take place before school was in session, but the return match in 1970 at home would take place on the first weekend the students arrived in Schenectady. Middlebury replaces King's Point on the football schedule in the near future. Unti '' \'organiz fathom activiti( ,.make il coale~c Do You Remember? Elwyn (Beansie) Evans (remember him) is now head basketball coach at Duchess County Community College. Evans coached varsity •. soccer and basketball here until last season, when he was at Hartwick. A mass firing of the entire athletic department there cost him his second job in two years. In the football game Saturday, the final punt by King's Point ' sailed directly out of bounds and landed near the top of the bleachers on the Union side of the field. Seniors and juniors should have been reminded, as I was, of a sideline pass attempt by QB Bob I. Utecht wh.ich sailed into the top row during the 1966 grid campaign. ... i 1 10~ off ON A SUNDAE. SODA OR SHAI(Il at 8tewaJt;t'8 ICE CREAM STORES 834 McClellan St., Schenectady All ice cream treats are served at your booth ready-made in huge schooner glasses- or you can still make-your own sundae. We have a new look this fall-- sit in soon! <) •, .. ,, \ I' Ca] 0 Schem contril than • Union Th( massh rnillio' • Exten conch Fund! anniv€ • A Falls-~ off b· fl drive· stage. Th New -t nine acade Ct • Fun< Thon Exte1 Unio~ • Capit Loui: instn Corn 0 Tl the < by V> .- frien

GA ''A Causa Persa Parole · Assai\ This Is NotA facs.imile l Founded at Union College 1877 )N result of the He sustained ff to midfield d spirits, but 1 that he wHl maining time been as asset 1 ~ at moves and ' and by split 1dered by the . :ow to, while ielined. Vol. 98 No.5 t. ''71 \)\ \ - ' .,~...tt\i~~~ \ I SCHENECTADY, N.Y., OCTOBER 11, 1968 ,. • •> . - :sus William~, e went down .ved to a halt,· ~ld stationary 1e latter blow • I · . ~UT o.F ACTION - Stll!' ~arnet flanker Craig Carlson is aided to a stretcher in Kings Point battle last Saturday. He will be m1ss1ng wtth a severe knee IDJury tomorrow at R()chester and for the rest of the season. Art Jacobs '69 will replace him (See examination ., 1 t ~essary. He is its would be by, but Art ood elects to :r, in order to ander sat out eup with the · 1 .onahan, and status of the , Senior Jim 11 soccer team from defense ert Okello b.y 1ld return to •, .: (( The prevelant feeling among many student leaders is concern about the lack of consensus among the students regarding campus issues, according to q Larry Pedowitz, leader of The Community. In a step designed to solve this problem, a new group - The Community- has been established. Headed by senior Larry Pedowitz, who consented to a short midnight interview to briefly outline the purposes of the group, The Community will hold a convention in late November. issues, Pedowitz said that The Community would take up where the Student Council and other gmups leave off, regarding representation of student causes and beliefs. The Community seeks to join the artist with the scientist; the 'jock' with the 'wonk'; the hedonist with the ascetic; and emerging will hopefully be a spirit to unite the college. P'RICE TWENTY CENTS Boxer Will by ~,~t.\Campus H_is claim of. '\l am the Grealest\ will resound throughout the campus when CassiUs Clay, alias Muhamed Ali - or vica versa - addresses Union students in Memorial Chapel at 8 p.m. on Oct. 24. . Clay-Ali, whose appearance at Union is being sponsored by the Political Forum, Will spend an hour lecturmg and an hour answering questions. While Abby Stillman, a senior and r-------~-----~ president of the Pulitic:.1l Forum, wuld nut say fur certain what flay·Ali would discuss, he speculated the :Black Muslim boxer would center his tJlk around \th.:: .:unccpt behind the Blad Muslims, why he chose to be a Black Muslim minister, arod his current legal problems concerning his draft·dodging indictment.\ Draft Problems Clay-Ali two years ago was deprived of his title of Heavyweight Boxing Champion when he refused to be inducted into the U.S. Army. He is currently free on bail pending a mid-November hearing following his appeal to a New York State Court. If convicted he faces a maximt:t m prison sentence of five years. Clay-Ali is ex.pected to arrice on campus earlier on the afternoon of the 24th and will meet with members of the Big Brother program - both the Schenectady youngsters a:nd their Union Big Brothers - at that time. \The meeting,\ Stillman said, \has been scheduled as one stel' toward fostering better relations between MUHAMED ALI Union College and the community.\ It is possible, Stillman added, that Clay-Ali will hold a press conference in between the Big Brother meeting and his Memorial Chapel appearance. Whether or not Union students will be admitted to the conference has not yet been decided. Big Plans saw Williams .d to squelch )t. Lawrence 1 :her previous 'od shot at a ~arly season ., pear to be in have trouble .ochester and md returning , >re. Around this convention centers the true meaning of the organization. Although reluctant to release any information about the proposed gathering, Pedowitz stated that students from every group and interest would be brought together to discuss vital issues confronting Union. Folksinger Bike I' To Serenade 0 'Dwyer Rally In Fieldhouse Stillman revealed there had been some difficulties with the college administration in receiving permission to welcome the Black Muslim to the college. Stillman also revealed current negotiations to obtain other speakers of such note as Robert F. Lewis, William F. Buckley, Jr., and President Lyndon B. Johnson to the campus later in the year. mes, with the ~n. The game return match l the students Point on the LARRY PEDOWITZ now, there has been no n ~organization which could stabilize and fathom opinions. Inherent diversity in activities, groups, and clubs would .. make it difficult, if not impossible, to coale::.ce ideas. ad basketball >ached varsity •: n he was at ent there cost Pedowitz hopes that fawlty members will also attend the caucuses; for the purpose of The Community is not to exclude people and their opinions, but to include every segment of campus feeling. However, he emphasized that The Community is not designed to be, nor would it act as a legislative body. Instead, it will be a centralized force in the decentralization atmosphere of the college. The Community, Pedowitz stressed, is in no way politically oriented, theugh there may be political activists among its membership. While failing to strike at any basic King's Point I· \' ~ top of the uniors should pt by QB Bob 1 • Schenectady funds Campaign Endows One Million Dollars rid campaign. §HAKI your :mer own all-- by Randy Sutter Cap ita! Funds Campaign in 0 Schenectady scored a victory reporting contributions of $1 million from more than 1800 alumni and friends of .. . • Union College in the area. The Schenectady drive is part of a massive campaign to raise $ 12.5 million in four years. The Office of \ ,, I• \ I' I; • External Affairs hopes to successfully conclude Union College's First Capital Funds Drive by 1970, the l75th anniversary of Union's founding. • A campaign in the Glens Falls-Saratoga area will soon be kicked off by a dinner in Glens Falls, and a fl drive in Amsterdam is in the pla11ning stage. The College hopes to have all of New York State canvassed in eight or 'i nine drives by the end of the current academic year. Currently in charge of the Capital e Funds Campaign is Howard A. Thompson, Vice President in charge of External Affairs. Thompson came to Union after completing a $35 million t Capital Campaign at Rice University in Louisiana. In addition, he was also instrumental 'in setting of the Greater Cornell Fund. \) The major portion of the work in the Capital Funds Drive is performed by volunteers drawn from alumni and w friends interested in the College. Yet contributions to the Fund have not come strictly from Union's 11,000 living alumni. The Union faculty has d<mated more than $91,000. Although less impressive in total, the $1500 collected last spring from Union students demonstrates the concern of the student body for the campaign. Business organizations have also donated to the Fund. Union ranks sixth of all national schools in the amount of matching gifts received from General Electric. The present Capital Funds Drive is only the first stage in a ten year campaign to raise $30 million. Much of the money will go to improving College facilities. The projected building schedule, as set forth by President Martin in his Convocation Address of October I will be a Science· Engineering Center,~ College Student Center, a Fine Arts Building, an extension of the library, a new Gym, and the renovation of N?rth College and the Psychology wmg. Th.e Science·Engineering 'Complex has received an initial boost with a Federal Grant of $1.7 million. The Capital Fund may also be tapped to supplement faculty salaries helping Union to remain competitive with other colleges. by Alan Mell Theodore Bike! was hastily named, last night, by O'Dwyer headquarters, to replace Peter, Paul and Mary as the star of the O'Dwyer rally in the Fieldhouse tonight, at 9 P.M. Bil(e}, a folk singer, appeared Wednesday night, along with Peter, Paul and Mary, at a New York rally for O'Dwyer. Peter and Mary were expected to come to the· Capital District today, to appear, first at a 7:30 rally in Albany's Strand Theatre, and then at the Union rally. Paul was not expected tonight. J.__~ THEODORE BIKEL Organizers for the O'Dwyer rally were informed, last night, that the folk group had left for California and would not be available tonight. It was then that Bikel was lined up as a replacement. The rest of tonight's program remains as originally planned. The first part of the program will be devoted to speeches by Professor Norman Levy of Albany State and Bill Greenwald, the head of the upstate O'Dwyer team. Levy is expected to discuss O'Dwyer's candidacy for the Senate, the national political scene, and student activism. Greenwald will also present O'Dwyer's views. Roosevelt Grier, who was to appear with Peter and Mary, here and in Albany, is. still expected here. Grier, a former football player for the New York Giants and Los Angeles Rams, has entered the entertainment field as a singer and become active in numerous political campaigns, since retiring from football. Bikel was already sched11led to be in the area when he agreed to salvage tonight's rally. He will be performing at Albany State and possibly the Strand Theater before arriving in Schenectady, foT the second half of the rally. He emphasized, however, that at the moment these are purely potential speakers and that to date the possibility of their appearances has not yet materialized. Che Denounced Prof. Byron Nichols climaxed a scathing attack on the methods of both Che Guevara and the American New Left last night with the remark, \the New Left won't succeed in the U.S. anymore than Che did in South America. To this I say, 'thank goodness'.\ Throughout his taLk to the International Relations Club, Nichols stressed the tendency of both Latin Americans and the North American New Left toward an excess of ideology. Ideology and belief substitute for pragmatic and materialistic solutions. Guevara was an example - ''a prisoner of his <Jwn myth.\ He started a revolution in the hinterlands of Bolivia, hoping to succeed with only peasant support. This mistake was based on his misreading of the Cuban Revolution, which succeeded solely because the middle classes joined it in order to oust Batista. Even the Bolivian peasants failed to join Guevara's Revolution. Bolivia had successfully carried out a land reform which satisfied most of its peasants. Guevara spoke none of the local Indian dialects, and the peasants did not speak Spanish. After explaining the high level of nationalism in most Latin American countries, Nichols refered to Guevara as an alien in Sottth Amedca. This alienation \Nas further supplemented by the bomgeois nature of most Latin American Communist parties. Che received little aid from them. They are content to rest on the power they have accumulated. Nichols stated that by all rational consideration, Guevara's failure, especially in Bolivia, w~s inevitable. Che Guevara made the effort he did merely to demonstrate the intensity of his be.liefs. Shifting his focus to the North American New Left, Nichols called the tactics the New Left used in Chicago an example of demonstration of fervor merely for its own sake and not an exercise in rational political strategy. He stated that the demonstrations were planned and executed in complete disregard for the fact that they might have been \counterproductive\ in terms of advancing the causes in which the participants believed. By contrast, he endorsed Senator McCarthy's refusal to support Humphrey as a rational means of moving the Democratic Party to the left. In a question-and-answer period, Nichols advocated reestablishment of diplomatic ties with Castro's Cuba but warned that we should not then expect to influence Castro's policies to any significant extent. Selection Of Panels President Harold ('. Martin has outlined a system for selecting · students to serve on faculty committees following a decision by the Faculty Committee to add student members. At present no appointive machinery exists for naming such students. For the current year, the Pres.ident will receive names suggested by the committee and will solicit additional names from other sources. He will then make appointments after consultation with the deans and student leaders.

' PubhshE>d Tuesday aJld Fnday dur- ·ing the school year by the Student Body of UnionCollege, Schenectady, ·N.Y. National Adverti'stng Repre .. , sentative: National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., Col.Jege ''Pubhshers Representati\·e, 360 · Le'Xtngton Avenue, N, Y. C. Edtt aria! Offlce, Old Gym, Union College, Publtca!lon Office, White· hurst Printtng & B>nding Co., Inc .. 416·418 Fifth Ave., Troy. 235·4450. Ent€'red in the Schenectady Post Office as Second CIa ss Mai'l Matter, ' SubscriptiOn 20¢ a copy; $6 a year delivered anywhere in the United. States. SENIOR BOARD D. Peter Drotman '69 .......... 346-8614 ............ Co-Editor in Chief Jeffrey C. Browne '69 ......... 346-9973 ............ Co-Editor in Chief Richard Lewis '70 ............. 346· 19 32 ............. Business Manager William Ouzer '71 ............. 3 77· 86 13 .............. Managing Editor Allen Gartner '71 .............. 377·8613 ................. News Editor Paul Andrews '71 ..................... .' ................. Features Editor . -LeonardSimon 70 ...................................... Sports Editor. · Paul Farnham '70 ..................................... Associate Editor Alan Klein '69 ............................................ Copy Editor JUNIOR BOARD Richard Kramer '71 ....................................................... Photography Editor Henry Fein '7l ........................................................ Associate Sports Editor · . Peter Weingold '71... ............................................. Associate Features Editor Alan Cohen '71.. ................. , ................................ Assistant Features Editor Michael Swirsky '70 ........................................ National Advertising Manager Jon Brunswick '70 ....................................................... Distribution Director Carl Goldsand '70 ......................................................... Circulation Manager Larry Roth blum '70 ................................................... Subscription Manager Jerry Levine '71 .................................................. Local Advertising Manager Jeff Birn '71 ....................................................... Local Advertising Manager An Occasional Copy With this issue, Concordiensis institutes a weekly magazine section entitled Facsimile. The purpose of the magazine is not only to provide a much needed outlet for the cramped creativity and imagination of the small, but growing, artistic community at Union; but also to help fill a void. Renaissance is long overdue here. The arts have been stifled by the empirical atmosJ?here and yearn to breathe free. We hope that they Will; and for this reason dedicate the spirit of our magazine to the_ arts in th~ir most liber~l tr~dition. Further, since we specifically beheve that mtersexual mmglmg, contact and communication are basic elements of any artistic institution, we devote our first edition to the issue of co-education at Union. The intent of Facsimile is to interest and to provoke interest. We feel that by providing the campus community with a medium that is diverse enough to accommodate movie, book, drama and concert reviews, fiction, humor, poetry, essays, opinion and research, cartoons and art work, even short plays and printed music, we shall stimulate interest. Facsimile, l?Y publishing weekly and regularly, will act as a spur to the . creatiVe ~d the potentially creative people in this commumty. We predtct the development of a symbiotic relationship am~ng the various campus publications and artistic groups. .1\s one excttes the community, the community excites the arts. As a result communication increases and a richer and more meaningful experience is shared by all. .In. this ve~, C~::mcordiensis advocates the unification of the many artistic orgamzat10ns and publications in this community for the purp_o~e of producing a Mixed-Media Presentation. This project, ambttl?us to say the least, would include, among other things, recordrngs of campus musicians or choruses several excellent photographs, an art portfolio, a book of verse' and prose, etc. In other words, we suggest the production of a mixed-media magazine. We are bound only by our imaginations. TAI<E J.&.l~fOP..\f 50. 1}(.(01\'011\J~ To ~ LlfllE.&A<.k~~, Pr-of. »~t\Stto\ ~ItS l:111T£ E'fe s . Letter To The Editor: Did you ever think that this bastion of mental erudition would rank right in there with Berkeley in ultimate liberalism? Well, we've got news for you! In a recent Concordiensis article entitled \DAR Dubs Dutchmen Pure\ Union College was concretely chosen by Larry Friedman as one of the most sw1mng, liberal, irreverant, non-up-tight, and hairy institutions in the nation. Students Choose Variety of Proiects As New Junio:r Year, Comp-E,d B,egins FACS your .Fur Nixon-for-President Committee, computer programming, don't-make-waves- ·just-make,$25,000-a-year, and The Turtle? Bah! Larry knows all. He is just like the rest of the interested, committed, virile men of Union; he gets involved. I, on the other hand, have been deluding myself. Memories of guys rushing frantically through Sour Hour crowds in search of an \acceptable\ set of mammeries must be incorrect ... it could never happen here at caring-for-the- -other-person Union. All you Engineers, AFROTC members, Young Republicans, and de sirers-of-homes-in-the-suburbs are in for a great shock. You don't exist at Union. All Union men wear sandals and beads at all times, including gym classes {one must do one's thing at all times): spend a minimum of six hours a day freaked-out and tuck themselves into bed every night with the woemn they love. Never will we be faulted. Hipness if Highest! by Steve Levy \Long overdue at Union\ was the description of the Junior Year Project given by Professor Finklestein. The project new this year is part of the existing Comprehensive Education program and is required of all juniors. A two term sequence is spent on a single topic and students work on a project of their choosing within the topic. Independent or small group work, a great deal of research both in the library and in the field, involvement with people and problems of the community, and few if any 'lectures, exams or formal classes, are the methods of study employed in the Junior Project. As stated by Professor George, whose group is studying the \Impact of the Road on the Environment and Man\ \I'm not calling it a course. 1 ~ant to make the people feel they we involved in a research program.\ Research is the main part of the five topics being offered during the Fall-Winter terms. A major purpose of the program is to provide students contact with society and \I think students have prompted this,\ commented George. A student may find himself spending the next two terms on such projects as building a baby scale, taking soil tests along side of a roadbed, going on a walking tour of Schenectady, Troy, and Blither: Albany, visiting with General Electric Management Personnel or attending Concord College. These examples may seem odd and insignificant when isolated and taken out of context as above. They are however only a few .of several projects being pursued by the five groups. Juniors Work With VITA Building a baby scale out of simple materials and making sure that it will be rugged and sin1ple enough in an underdeveloped nation is one of the projects being undertaken by Professor Schick's group within the topic ''VITA and the Developing Countries.\ They are working closely with the organization VI T A ( V o l u n t e e r s for International Technical assistance) which receives problems from underdeveloped nations all over the world and seeks to find solutions and present them in a simplified form. The Vita organization, founded at Union , College, maintains its main office on the campus and has over 5000 volunteers throughout the country. Two students are working on a manual dealing with water distribution and pollution which the Peace Corps has contracted with VITA, while another group is seeking to build a simple ser·ies of .pllmps that operate · at different levels. The cFeatien of a VITA library, the handling of incoming letters from foreign ·lll nations, and .the building of a public :image for VITA are projects being undertaken by . 1 \ other students in the group. Project Studies The Road Simultaneously students of Professor George'·s group, studying the \Impact of .fheu 9 ~ Road on the Environment and Man\ are out interviewing prominent workers in the field,~ of transportation, making fielcd studies dealing with the effect of the auto on the :surroundings, and repor.ting on their' interviews. The group which ihas FOUNDE Vol. 1 l'i by The r< committe the e s a student planning committee hopes to have guest speakers\ ~ 1 luncheon seminars, and field . trips. Two members of the gr0up will attend a three day Transportation Engineering1 Congress in Washington, D.C. at t coeducat being th' work 1 members similar commi the end of October. Professor George is undecided about the method of evaluating' ' the student's work. He commented that he would discuss it with the student, planning group and that he. hopes to \avoid customary forms of evaluation.\ .. U nivers (I commiW the men Yet we are puzzled by one thing: where does Friedman see all the things he enumerates; maybe we need some coeducation around here to relieve delusion-causing (rationale-making?) pressures. Student Co,uncil Agenda Throughout the study the group will deal with tile chemical, biological, and physical influences of the impact f' of the roadbed, the impact of vehicl.llar traffic, the impact gf equipment ancillary to the 1 , roadbed, and the significance of land use induced by the road. They will also consider an assesment of the future. question unfinish~ ~ available which a been a (; finished publishe1 year. Ray Krize, Jr. '71 The Other Half Realizing that a good many of the students on this campus tend to desire occasional feminine accoutrement, Concordiensis oblingly and edifyingly publishes the following bill of events. Saratoga: Skidmore provides an excellent opportunity for any potential 'Oraduate'. It is Freshman Parents' Weekend and there are not many activities planned to which clean-cut all-American boys can bring a date. Troy: The Chambers Brothers, along with Tom Rush, will appear at the RPI Field House Saturday night. The show should be exciting, but the audience promises to be less so. At Sage, flick \Man For All Seasons\ plays at 8:00 tonight; and Rev. Malcom (Are you running with me, Jesus?) B'oyd will speak at noon on Saturday. Albany: At SUNY.; Theodore Bikel at 8:00 tonight Gust before he comes to U.C. Field House) followed by the Happenings. Flu Shots A clinic, at which flu shots will be offered to faculty, staff and students will be held in Silliman Hall on Tuesday, October 23, from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. Student Council will hold its next meeting in Hale House Student Lounge Monday, October 14, at 7:00P.M. The agenda for this meeting will include: 1) AI Ziegler and Larry Pedowitz to answer questions about the Community. 2) Ratification of Constitutions of The Hockey Club, The Rubicon, and the Big Brothers Association. 3) Formulation of Blood Drive sponsored by Student Council on Oct. 30 & 3 L 4) Discussion of Coeducation. 5) Discussion of the Social Rules Committee. 6) Discussion of Concordy Election procedures. 7) Appointing of Committee Chairmen for: Maintenance Publications Academic Honesty and Honor Code Community Relations Calendar Social and Student Council Scholarship Fund, and giving these committees a direction and purpose for the coming academic year. All students interested in any of these issues are invited to attend this meeting of the council. ~---------------------~ VROOMAN'S Beer - Groceries Cold Cuts - Pastries Magazines 200 NOTT TERRACE FR 7-9834 DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and legal Beverages 118 - 1 ro JAY STHET Anyone who has not received a co-ed questionnaire should obtain one from his resident advisor or fraternity president. These should be filled out immediately and returned to the resident advisor, fraternity president or to Room 9 in the Administration Building. ••••••••• Representative Daniel E. Button, candidate of the Republican and Citizens Parties, and challengers Jacob H. Herzog of the Democratic and Conservative Parties and J. Lawrence Katz of the Liberal Party will debate the subject \Peace with Honor\ at 8:00 P.M. Wednesday, October 16 at Linton High School Auditorium. ••••••••• Alth, {. Princeto is irrele' Union, strong ~ when skepti inescap cr Union n comm: recomJ coeduca v to sur-v progress One c. many I? mater u the cho< This m James MacGregor Burns will be on campus Friday, October 18, to give a lecture on the Candidacy of Hubert Humphrey. He will speak at 3:30p.m. in SS 016. The lecture is sponsored by The Young Democrats. Spending most of this term doing research and writing, while,. they will spend next term in the presentation of papers and in seminars is Dean Palmer's group which is undertaking a study af·r \The Impact of Science and Technology on Emerging Nations.\ Working in research teams of six students, each t· group will present a single paper. Topics range from a study of medical technology in In<lia, to a o study of employment of ' underpriviledged persons, to the transfer or weapons tech.uology to Sollth and Central America. it 1 • E~ch group meets individually w1th Dean Pahner to discuss their plans and progress. ••••••••• Copies of The Garnet, the Union College Yearbook, will be distributed on Monday from one to five p.m. on the second floor, middle section of North College. A group· that won't be seen around Union this term is Professor Bennett's group which~ is spending the fall term at Concord College in West Virginia gathering data for a comparative' Study of poverty in West Virgillia and New York. ··------------~--~--- .. ~, :--------------. ! For All Your Paint I Gershon's ~. : and Hardware Needs 1 ! & Cleaning Supplies I : See Us ! !cAPITOL PAINT & J 1 HARDWARE CO. • I t I 730 STATE ST. I I Phone FR 4-4123 I ! I '---------------------~-- .... Sandwiches Cold Cuts Salads Open Tues. - Sun. 8 A.M.. to 9 P.M. Ph: EX 3-0617 1600 Unien St. ,------------------~==============~'· WRITERS: - MANUSCRIPTS TYPED NEATLY, ACCURATELY, AND PROMPTLY BY AN EXPERfENCED MANUSCRIPT TYPIST. MINOR EDITING, CARBON FREE, MAILED FLAT, 45¢ PAGE. Mrs. Beverly J. A•sler 14 ABLEMAN AVENUE ALBANY, NEW YORK 12203 Telephone: 489~ 1933 * p 1:) f I: I • A Class the q school seek t or not Ro \ freshn from institt systen 1 howe' of t coedu \ of th life ac On and t s. interv con ell fre s l coedu t---------------------------It t'

ts • 1ns iimple ser:ies operate ·at creatian of handling of om foreign ·1\1 tilding of a VITA are ertaken by . 1 \ group. eRoad' FACSIMILE: Look that up in your .Funk & Wagnall's. FOUNDED AT UNION COLLEGE IN 1968 Vol. 1 No. 1 SCHENECTADY,N.Y., OCTOBER 11, 1963 Examiner No. 17 This magazine has been carefully examined. If defective please return it with this slip. WEATHER: Weather today, tonight and tomorrow with temperatures J:!revailing. FREE 11\JITH CONCORDIENSIS students of e'·s group, 1act of the 0 P ~ cmment and intewiewing in the field,~ v naking field TO J\RD COEDUCATION the effect of 11rroundings, on their' ~· p which has committee Coeducation: Princeton Report Nie1neyer Report by Harris Ginsberg st speakers\. ~~ and field by Peter J. W eingold of the group three day Engineering' ton, D.C. at is undecided 1f evaluating' work. He he would he studenh d that he customary '. study tlte with the ;ical, and f the impact'' . : impact of ~ impact gf ; y to the 1 ,' nificance of y the road. onsider an tre. 1f this term •riting, while,. : terminthe ~ers and in lmer's group g a study of•l kience and Emerging in research ients, each,. single paper. a s-tudy of n lnil.ia, to a\ >yment of sons, to the The recently released faculty committee report reco1nmending the establishment of a t coeducational Union, besides being the result of much hard work by the committee members, is also based on a ' similar report done by a committee at Princeton University. The Princeton (I committee generously allowed the members of Union's coed question team to see their unfinished report and made ~ available to them all the data which a reported $25 ,000 had been able to collect. The (; finished Princeton report was published in September of this year. Although much of the { Princeton report on coeducation is irrelevant to the situation at Union, there are points too strong to be ignored, which (', when examined even with skepticism lead to the inescapable conclusion that cr Union must indeed, as our own committee so strongly recommended, become a coeducational institution, if it is v to survive as a top quality, progressive school. One of the great cries of a many Unionites is that our alma · mater is not selective enough in the choosing of incoming classes. This may very well be true. technology ·al America. ~. I • individually to discuss ess. m't be seen is term is ~roup which~ ill term at V'est Virginia comparative, ' in West Irk. 's • • Unfor.t unately, -if in order to fill 400 places you must accept 800 studerr ts from 1600 applicants, your selectivity cannot be too great. The PrincetoN Report points out, and here Princeton and Union may be equated, that only tluee per-cent of the qualified male students polled (froru I 9 public and private secondary schools across the country) actually prefer an all-male institution. In addition, the Feport noted that of those qualified applicants who refused admission, the most oft-cited reason was lack of women students. Although Union loses many of its accepted applicants to other schools, the fact that we're all male according to the Princeton report, doesn't help any. That means simply that Union, by remaining all male, must draw its applicants from a very limited pool· of men and thence its limited selectivity. The report goes on to ex amine the intellectual capabilities and achievements of women at institutions similar to Princeton and Union in academic quality. It points out, for instance, that Radcliffe graduates a larger percentage of students cum laude, magna cum laude, and summa cum laude than Harvard and that the women at Radcliffe consistently have a higher average cumulative IS . Frosh Poll Split - Sun. P.M. I) Unlcn St. .Y ~ •· t by Paul Markes A recent poll finds Union's Class of '72 sharply divided by the question of whether the ~ school should allow women to seek undergraduate studies here or not. Roughly half of this year's \ freshmen favored a conversion from the present all-male institution to a coeducational system. It is worthy of note, however, that while almost half of the freshmen favored 1:.1 d I ' I . li coeducation, nearly four fifths of the class found their social life adequate. On the basis of these figures and the ideas voiced in many 1- interviews, it must logically be concluded that many of those freshmen in favor of coeducation desire this change t' for other than the social advantages that might occur. At least one quarter of the freshmen felt that the presence of women on campus would fortify the departments in Center I. On the other side of the coin, it must be said that those in o.pposition to coeducation felt that nothing could be gained from this change. On the contrary, nearly half of the freshmen felt that Union would forfeit much prestige and tradition by a move to coeducation. They felt that the negligible changes in their social life would not warrant the change. Many expressed a fea-r that with coeducation, Union would see new social rules imposed on its community. This is a breakdown of a poll index than the men at Harvard. Clearly, the type of women that Union hopes to attract will not in any way adversely affect the inteltectual climate here. Although the committee was not able to state whether or not women would have a distracting position on campus they did feel that the amount of time used to prepare for and actually date women at present would certainly be less with women on campus, and even if women did prove to be a distraction they felt it would be no worse than the present \big weekend\ situation. A major point of the committee is that \once the novelty has worn off, and provided the ratio of men to women is not too lopsided, the presence of members of the opposite sex usually does not significantly distract either the men or the women from the work at hand.\ According to President Brewster of Yale, who was quoted by the committee in their report: \Far from being a distraction the presence of the opposite sex results in more intense participation and study.\ on campus; too large a ratio is obviously o-at of the question. Much of the Princeton Report cannot be applied to Union. Our own comm.ittee did not even seriously consider establishing a coordinate college because of the prohibitive costs. And of course, feasibility studies for any expansion have to be done specifically for Union. The conclu~ons of the Princeton Report are glaring and cannot be ignored by any school, especially Union. The trend in education is coeducation. With the tremendous growth o1 large, reputable state schools, Union \The trend is towards co-education\ cited Dr. Carl N i·emeyer, chairman of the Faculty Committee on C o - e d u c a t i o n , w hen he presented his controversial report to a group of students at Tuesday's meeting October 8 in Memorial Chapel. The report stressed the proportions of men to women in coed1:1cational colleges and universities. Niemeyer emphasized the fact that for each of four years, Union would admit I 00 women, th~eby giving the school a 3 to 1 male ratio { 1200 men to 400 women). One topic of discussion was curriculum changes. If Union remains segregated, remarked Neimeyer, there would be a decrease in liberal arts applicants; hence Union would become basically a scientific and cannot afford to cater any longer to the statistically proven small group of applicants from which we have been drawing our appLicants. Clearly there are disadvantages to becoming coed, but they are far outweighed by the advantages. Both studies make that clear. The Princeton Committee estimated that in 10 years Princeton would be in serious jeopardy of losing her prestige if she continued on her present celibate course. With a school as highly regarded as Princeton almost certainly becoming coeducational, can Union afford not to? Union, being the science and engineering-oriented school it is, must consider the consequences to these departments of, in effect, cutting off by possibly 25 per cent the number of students interested in these disciplines. This would be the result of taking in a freshman class of a 3 to 1 ratio men to women. The Princeton report points out (as does our own committee's report much more specifically) that although these departments will suffer slightly the increase in the general intellectual level and the expansion of the faculty in the Humanities more than will offset the disadvantages. The Wave of the future The projected ratio of 3 to I was arrived at after considering schools such as Stanford, Radcliffe, Harvard and MIT. Too small a ratio, the committee felt, leads to the disappearance of women as a meaningful entity 50-50 of 55 freshmen taken Tuesday: Do you favor coeducation at Union? Yes, 47%; No, 53%- Will Union forfeit prestige by going coed? Yes, 44%; No, 56%. Do you think your social life will improve noticeably with coeducation? Yes, 22%; No, 78%. Would girls at Union detract from your studies? Yes, 20%; No, 80%. Is there much trouble finding girls on weekends? Yes, 22%; No, 78%. When those who favored coeducation were asked why they came to Union, their most common reply was that Union by Alan Cohe11 One was greeted at the door by two young men distributing \Vote No\ fliers; but the atmosphere inside indicated that the men want the girls. Professor Neimeyer had to pound the microphone a few times before the excited audience wa.s ready to listen to his report, but the men listened attentively once the reality of the situation was put right to them. Essential to the enrollment of women at Union appears to be a large figure ... that is, \fairly substantial numbers\ because outnumbered women will apparently not participate in class. This contention raises questions such as ( 1) will men react similarly when outnumbered and (2) will ·a quota on women enrolled in each class have to be established. But the latter is a matter (poetry) of \implementation\. Also under that heading come some questions vital to some students such as social hours and dormitories. Knowing that (not only coeducation but also) elimination of social rules plus w a s t he b est s c h o o 1 • It seems also that some scholastically and had the most \'aggressive young men just didn't to offer when compared to the know what they were getting coed schools at which they were themselves into when they came accepted. to Union. mixed dormitories seem to be \waves of the future\ Union has the opportunity to dive right into the ocean of progress sweeping colleges across the country, The question is also raised \Who will be doing all the implementing?\ The trustees? The faculty? (How about us students?) Students will surely want to sit on admission committees (and require full-length photos of every applicant.) · There is a great worry on the part of the committee concerning the quality of those who will in the future be applying to small male schools with the 3.3% figure destined to live in infamy with the \Keep the Girls at Skidmore\ crowd. However, the committee has no worry concerning the quality of women who will be recruited. The report clearly shows that higher-ranked women prefer coeducation while lower-ranked women prefer the nunneries_ (Strange! One might expect the less intelligent to be out seeking husband~ at coed schools. But, reports never lie.) However, if these women are of \Seven Sister\ quality, they may not even look at Union men. And it will take a bit of adjusting not to cringe at the thought . of a Bennington man coming down to see his girl at engineering school. He then added that \women take different subjects, like literature, fine arts, history, sociology, and psychology.\ With this greater development of the liberal arts department, Niemeyer assured the Center II students that the science and engineering departments would not suffer. Referring to the Princeton report on coeducation, the committee found that only 4% of some 5000 high school students polled would be less attracted. to coed schools, whereas 76% would be more attracted to coed schools. A small 3.3% indicated that they would prefer to attend a small all-male or all-female liberal arts college. In regard to housing, the committee made suggestions that the school use Richmond and North College to house women. North College has already been slated for renovation, Niemeyer stated, and another dorm, possibly coed, could be constructed opposite Richmond. Also suggested was an exchange program, such as Vassar and Williams now employ. According to Dr. Henry Butzel, this is \only a temporized program\ and \Not satisfactory.\ Replying to a student's question regarding the effect of student opinion on the approval of the Board of Trustees, Mr. Bernard Carmen stated that previously this question of coeducation had only been brought up once for a vote - in 1795. Obviously, \the 1795 decision of the Board of Trustees went one way.\ Also stating that the college is becoming more progressive due to its women professors, Niemeyer expressed the idea that \we should make decisions now\ for in future years coeducation at Union will \become proportionally harder\. The school cannot become coeducational, stated the committee, \simply by wishing for it.\ Union. Professor Niemeyer does not feel that the \animal spirit\ of the athletes will sink, but those weekday evening spiritual revivals may make the academic tracks a bifrimddy. But let's remember what is important. Union students must vote on the entire concept of education. Is college a monastic four-year plan during which time the student crams himself full of thousands of facts, while letting his more-Freudian self out only on weekends - or is college a total experience where learning becomes a part of adjusting to the reality of the outside world? Will the \overwhelming logic\ shown by the faculty reappear with the students when they vote? Will the trustees accept the voice of the student body? As we say in Spanish 10, \\No se.\

C 0 ·ED • by Blll Ouzer and Paul Andrews The issue of coeducation at Union may be the most important ever to confront Union College. As all reports indicate, the cunent trend toward coeducation sweeping the nation cannot be ignored without seriously jeopardizing the future existence of Union or any sexually segregated institution. Two days of perambulating the campus in search of interview prospects concerning coeducation at Union netted us the following expostulations on coed~:~cation. From our extensive survey of campus opinion we can only surmise that it would be utter and complete folly for the college to deny coeducation at Union. Every person who had familiarized himself with the persuasive Niemeyer Report was swayed by its contents toward coeducation ~ even with all other factors (tradition, cost, etc.) taken into consideration. Probably the most quotable opinions we encountered were \nof for publication\ because of their extreme nature. Many students and, more significantly, many of Union's outstanding young faculty, expressed sentiment that they would abandon Union were coeducation defeated. One popular young professor perhaps epitomized tlJ.i.s view when he told us: \I have informed President Martin that if Union does not accept coeducation I will terminate my service at the college.\ initially oppose the issue of coeducation. A freshman poll earlier this week (see p. 1 for story) indicated that the Class of '72 are generallY split down the middle on coeducation. But such results show the significant change in freshman opinion just since their OrientaHon September 19 through 23, during which the issue was defeated 79 to 21 per cent. Time alone will sway freshman opinion toward coeducation. By now most students are well acquainted with the arguments pro and con. But here, for what it's worth, is a varied assortment of views: Mrs. Harvey A Ketchum GALLOPING Dean of Humanities and Social Sciences Martin Lich te:rman: \As far as I'm con.cerned we can't have coeducation too soon ... We should have had it a long time ago ... There are going to be some stumbling blocks; people wh() talk about coeducation next year are perhaps overly optomistic. A more realistic goal might be the fall of 1970 ... Coeducation would create a much better climate socially and educationally. One of the measures of the social health of an institution is how many people are around on the weekend; at Union everybody beats it out on the weekend ... There is a Playboy magazine attitude toward women ... It is not a healthy attitude where this is the only idea anyone has in connection witll girls ... I have no doubt that it will improve our faculty recmiting position. I think also that some of our best young faculty members wlll be enc:o uraged to stay at Union ... some people argue that with the ·current trend toward coeducation Union will be able to recruit men from the standpoint of uniqueness if it doesn't go coed. That's not the kind of uniqueness I want . . . \ POLL Lichterman >l l Profess Chairmai Depart me that Unil ago. Prof on the Commit1 Presiden campus i recomm~1 at Uni1 President establisl Commissi re.port 1 fl Union ad it's 26-2( informati show ver no othe1 educatim '· specialize 1 , ~· we h~d guessmg coeduc Finkleste I, ,, I ' o \will be terms of revision course • .,.. provide educatio ~ -.l 1 \ ' \' t.': Probably the only excuse the Trustees could give for voting against coeducation would be student opinion - if the straw poll results in a negative vote. A student vote against coeducation remains a posibility, we discovered, despite widespread faculty and administrative confidence that Union will begin coeducation within the next two years. Mrs. Jocelyn Harvey, English Department: \I'm all for it as both a teacher in the arts and a woman.\ Mrs. Harvey, who has taught at coed, all-male and all-female institutions, said she favored coed the most and .. from a woman's standpoint, all girls' schools are the worst.\ The presence of both boys and girls brings out the best in class discussion. Part of the lethargy of the Union student is because there are no girls.\ Prof. G. M. Eetchum, Chairman of Mecltanical Engineering Department: \I don't think the presence of coeds should have any significant effects co-ntrary to the sciences or engineering. I think it would detract if we..tried to maintain the college at the same size .. ,. it should expand on the basis of accommodating coeducation. The scho()l which involves students of only one sex is basically an ~rtificial environment .... It's hard to find an all-male college that ins't ·considering coeducation.\ When asked if he thought Union's endowment would suffer if coeducation were instituted, Professor Ketchum replied, \If you don't keep -with the educational pattern of the day you're going to have difficulty raising funds anyway.·~ Let's join forces. i I . Such a vote would warrant only slight consideration in the Trustee's decision, however. Only approximately 60 per cent of the student body was on hand for the distribution of the straw-poll questionnaire, and it is doubtful that the student favoring coed would be as likely as the student opposed to fill out and turn in the questionnaire, simply because of the complacency of the side that know it's winning. Also it is traditional that freshmen Sine Richard Sine, Director of Union College News Bureau: \I started out very much against it, but now can see many things for it. We have too many good people on the faculty to run the risk of not being able to attract other good ones ... Girls do contribute ... I think Union is wise in submitting the question to student vote.\ Schwartz and Ross Steve Schwartz and Dan Ross, of Long Island, Old Westbury- Wheatley H.S. Two prospective freshmen. They didn't know about the controversy at Union over going coed but said that they .. liked the idea.\ While they found the 4-1 ration generaUy inequitable they said it was \better than nothing\ and that ifUnion were to admit women to the Class of '73 they would choose it over an all-male school ()f similar academic reputation. PEGGY'S RESTAURANT Special 10% Discount For Union Students On $10 Meal Tickets 428 STATE ST. Call 346-9560 Vinitk5 Men's Shop Specialists in Collegiate Wear 514 State Street at Lafayette Park & Shop Free Parking I ' I r tl Apart we're not much. Noth ir.~g, in fact. Together we're a team. One of the greatest. The Aerospace Team. World's largest science and engi- ~­ neering organization ..• Enroll in the Air Force ROTC Pro- gram on campus. You may qualify ~ for financial assistance and flight instruction while you're in school. In fact, let's get together and talk \ over grants-they could pay for-your tuition, books, and give you $50.00 a month. ·· When you graduate, you'll be an officer ... you can combine doctor, engineer, lawyer or B.A. degree with an exciting Space-Age career. You'll know exactly where you're going. Together, there's practically noth- , ing we can't do. Even fly. ,--------------,t> I U.S. AIR FORCE ROTC (A.U.) BLDG. 500 (ARTOI) I Maxwell AFB, Alabama 36112 I Interested in Flying 0 Yes D 1\Jo I I NAME: AGE: I PLEASE PRINT ·I COLLEGE: I I MAJOR SUBJECTS: I I CAREER INTERESTS: I HOME ADDRESS: I CITY: . STATE ZIP RCP·89 '-------·---------- Riel Housi enthu l fa c u recom made argum • create vision Union t recom a 25 Wome t l ' ) I I ! ., I j c ·I feel mad1 coed mak· T

Professor Joseph Finkelstein, Chairman of the History Department, first recommended that Union go coed a decade ago. Professor Finkelstein was on the 1967 July Faculty Committee appointed by President Martin to .study campus issues. The committee recomm~nded that ·coeducation at Union be studied and President Martin subsequently established the Niemeyer Commission responsible for the Prof. Edgar Curtis, Music Department, thought coeducation \a cause which will go over the top with no trouble ... I feel strongly and h~ve felt strongly for some time in favor of coeducation.\ re.port recommending that 1 ~ Union adopt coeducation. \Now it's 26-20 hindsight because all information and statistical data show very clearly that there is Prof. Alan Roberts, Foreign Language Department: '\From my own .point of view of teaching at Union for 15 years I am very much in favor of an all male college. But after viewing Professor Niemeyer's report I'll have to admit that coeducation is necessary for the future of the college. What most convinced me was the fact that the best male students don't want to go to an all~male college. It's hard for me to conceive of it from a traditional point of view but I think it's necessary.\ Swimming Coach Robert Benson: \I have conflicting opinions. As far as coeducation is concerned, I think it's fine -for Union College. But as far as recruiting picture is concerned I have enough trouble recruiting fine swimmers as it is. If they continue to take the same number of men and accept additional women it wouldn't hurt me at all ... I have lost a few interested potential freshmen on the issue of coeducation. But I always explain to them that the women situation is fine here as ·far as accessibility is concerned.\ '· no other future for American education except for highly specialized institutions. Before 1 , ~ we had this data we were just · guessing crudely .in favor of coeducation.\ Professor ROTC Pro- qualify ~ Finklestein said that the cost o \will be much more extensive in terms of physical facilities and revision of curriculum and . course offering if we are to I .,.. provide girls the kind of education they want.\ ·~~·-···· I ~ . .. 'l t~ Lucas Richard Lucas, Director of Housing Administration: \I enthusiastically support the 'faculty committee's recommendation. The report made a very strong, convincing argument ... coeducation would Shinagel Prof. Michael Shinagel, Chairman of the English Department Union operates as far as I can tell on a 4Y2 day week. The campus is virtually deserted on weekend. The introduction of women would make this a 7-day week campus - instead of leaving for a cultural experience students could generate it here on campus .. We suffer in many college activities - including Mountebank, the Idol and Concordiensis - from lack of women. Students are culturally disadvantaged at Union. There is too much homogeneity among men. How can you discuss poetry without the female point of view? As a result, anti-intellectualism flourishes, and women are seen less as human beings than as objects to be utilized .... \ Director of Financial Aid Gordon Bingham: \One of the things I was sold on a long time ago on education is coeducation. It's difficult to say how it will affect financial aid distribution Roberts at Union ... there isn't much good data available on the financial need of men as compared to women. My feeling is that women are much more 'paying members' at college than men ... \ .•. ·l .. 1 1 Benson Passmore and flight n school. and talk for your .!!)50.00 • create a more realistic, healthier vision toward life on campus. If Union does go coed I would t recommend that the college hire a 25 to 26 year old Dean of Bingham Michael Passmore, '70: ''I came to a men's school to try it out. The trouble was, once I tried it out I couldn't get out.\ .. be an ne doctor, with you're noth- ' .. I 12 01\Jo ' ZIP RCP·89 ' Women ... \ • ••• t r~ f ,. ....... 't .it~ n I ) I \...._.../ . I ! •J I ~--------------------------------------------_j Schmidt j Calvin Schmidt, Registrar: \I another issue. I'd rather we started off well than jumped into it ... It's hard to tell what exactly the effect will be on courses and the curriculum.\ • 1 feel the faculty committee has made a convincing argument for coeducation. Whether Union can make it by 1969 or 1970 is T WELCOME AGAIN 2 or more SHIRTS • • • • • 2~ ea. PANTS .. • 49c SUITS • • 98c Dambrose Clea,ners 1517 VANVRANKEN AVENUE- FR 4-5193 Just Around the Corner from Mohawk National Bonk LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian· American Food 1125 BARRETI ST. Schenectady Dl 6-9744 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar ·.-.·~.-· ~~.;. Cur~is Hansen 1. l f Prof. Erik Hansen, History Department: \I'm very much in favor of it. It would create a healthier atmosphere on campus and raise academic standards ... women often are more conscientious students than men.\ Professor Arnold Biddleman, Artist in Residence: \Terrific. In every way, it will make things richer, better, and more beautiful and will not detract in any way.\ When asked if he thought coeducation would spur interest in the Liberal Arts at Union, particularly in the Mou·tebanks, Moving Finger, Idol and Concordiensis, Professor Biddleman replied, \Yes.'' Mrs. Harold C. Martin, wife of the president: \I'm very eager to see coeducation on this campus. The presence of women makes for more interest in and conversation about the arts and culture in general. It would tend to stimulate interest in the Liberal Arts at Union.\ When asked if she had discussed the matter with the president, Mrs.\ Martin smiled and replied laconically, \He knows how I feel.\ Mrs. Martin Bittlemail O~[J)IEJPl YOUR OFFICIAL COllJECGJE RTINCG CREATED BY JOHN ROBERTS WORLD'S FINEST Let your success show a little with a fine class ring by John Roberts. Your choice of stones, weights and styles. Three dimen- sional Greek letter encrusting. October 18, 1968 Campus Bookstore Nott Memorial 9:00 A.M. - 4:00 P.M. FOUR WEEK SHIPMENT

. .. Conversation • In a L.I. Bar between the pages. He flips past With a Soldier of Fortune an April 22 exit sta:mp from Rwanda, and points out a page, t' filled with exit and entry stamps from Lisbon, with no intervening destination stamp -, ~. the souvenirs of his clandestine flights. Then with a little chuckle, he stuffs it back into.~ , his flight suit pocket. It won't He Flew Food to Biafrf' the runway,\ he says. When he began to speak of the war itself, its past, its future, McGuire uses phrases which seem slightly tri·te on paper, but which are probably just the honest opinions of an Irishman who has been around a bit. \It's just like any other war,\ he .says, \they never solve anything, it never does any good.\ The war's migin is simple, he feels: \the Ibos were right to secede. They're smart, the smartest in Africa, they have all the doctors and lawyers.\ Though. the origin of the war is tribal, its continuation may be due to intervention, he says, noting that \there's a tot of oil under Biafra,\ and chat the English support for the Nigerians and the French money and mercenaries aiding Biafra. Reprinted from the Harvard Summer News by William R. Galeota NASSAU COUNTY, N.Y.- Ours is not a romantic age, and so it's hardly surprising that, except for his green jump suit, ·Philip (Phil) McGuire with his broad face and fading hairline looked about as ordinary as any other of the dozen or so people sipping beer in a Long Island bar on a hot afternoon last week. Like them, he was relaxing from work, but his line of business was perhaps slightly more demanding than theirs. McGuire had just returned from two months of flying arms and food into the beleagured African state of Biafra. \We flew guns one trip and baby food the next,\ he recalls with a chuckle. And he sees no irony in the combination. \They (the Nigerians) are offering the Biafrans a choice between starvation and massacre, and the Biafrans need something to fight both.\ In the beginning, it was apparently a straight business proposition. McGuire who began flying for the Army Air Forces during World War II and had shipped supplies to isolated French units during the Indochina War, was working for a small European airline. He stopped over at Lisbon in May, and saw some Lockheed Constillations parked in a guarded portion of the airport there. '\I knew what they were,\ he laughs, \In our business word gets around.\ Word had also reached him of the $1500 per trip salary for pilots ($1 000 for flight engineers) and after a few inquiries, he joined the Biafran airlift as a flight engineer. The company which flies food into Biafra under contract to the Red Cross, and guns in under contract to the Biafran government (cash in advance), is called North American airlines and is run by an American named Hank Wharton: nicknamed \Hanky-Panky cause that's the only kind of business he'd want,\ McGuire says. Unofficial headquarters of the outfit is the Hotel Tivoli in Lisbon, where \Hanky-Panky\ lives in Room 228 - a room registered in the name of a little mini-skirt with red hair\ • and his chlef assistant resides in 336. Flying constellations and DC- 7's brought from Lufthansa, the aircrews change registration numbers on the otherwise unmarked planes from American to Mauretanian as the circumstances require. \We carry our registration in a can of paint,\ McGuire says, stirring it up with a free hand. \Hanky-Panky\ makes no announcement of flights until about a half hour before they take-off, McGuire notes, though the air-crews often suspect a flight is in the offing when the maintenance on a plane is finished and night approaches. Once the crews in their respective bars are a:lerted and \poured out\ into the planes, they take off on their flights for Biafra, juggling flight plans so as to fly always at night, when the Egyptians piloting Nigeria's MIG's refuse to fly. The complete round trip from Lisbon to Biafra takes 30 hours, so two pilots an.d two flight engineers sleeping in shifts are on every flight, he says. The planes generally fly straight from Lisbon to Biafra, unload and then fly to Bisau, Portuguese Guinea, or St. Isabel or St. Tome, Fernando Po (also Portuguese). Once there, they sometimes fly a short triangle, carrying only food between Biafra, Bisau, and Fernando Po before returning to Lisbon. \Finding the airstrip (in Biafra), that's a problem sometimes,\ McGuire says. Biafra's sole airstrip is a hard-top road slightly widened by cutting away at the jungle on both sides. It is lit by two rows of lights, none of them very strong. The outboard engines of the four-engine Constellations hang out over the brush, which if it fouls the engines, means an abrupt end to the flight. The airlift runs a delicate course between the thunderstorms, always encountered at night, and the radar-directed anti-aircraft fire wWch grows heavier as the storm fades. When he began flying for the outfit, it had six Constellations and one DC-7; of the Constellations, one was hijacked and flown to Madrid; a second was impounded when it made a forced landing on Malta (when its flight plan said it was going to New York). A third crashed in the jungle killing all aboard, and a fourth was blown up in Bisau, reportedly by a South African who is now in his native country enjoying a RITZ RESTAURANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featuring HOME STYLE IT ALlAN FOODS, STEAKS. CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Parties Pizza & Sandwiches. at Atl Hours Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open Daily 11 A.M. to Midnight $100,000 reward from Nigeria. McGuire does not mind talking about his closest call while flying to Biafra and, one might even suspect that he takes a certain delight in it. Scheduled as a cr~w member on one flight, he transferred to an earlier one partly because of a quarrel with the other flight engineeF, but mostly because of \a certain feeling; you get to be like a cat or some kind of animal sometimes.\ The flight to which McGuire transferred was supposed to be a dangerous one. Its pilot, since given other duties, carried the sobriquet of \Mr. Magoo\. It landed safely at the Biafran airstrip, and McGuire waited in vain to meet friends on h.is former flight, but \they got clobbered.\ The Nigerians claim they shot the plane down - McGuire believes it crashed of natural causes, one might say - but one thing is sure: it was demolished. \The tail, that's the only thing you can see, sticking up in the jungle.\ Aboard were Augie Martin, a black American pilot earning a little extra money while on vacation from Seaboard World Airlines: Martin's wife Gladys, whom McGuire thinks had come along to gather material for an article on Biafra; Jess Meade, also an American; and a Rhodesian with the pseudonym of \Bill Brown\. Mr. Martin's head was never found, McGuire says, so \the missionaries buried what they could find of him. \Bill Brown\ reportedly had a wife and family in Rhodesia, who are vainly attempting to collect the money he deposited in a bank under his real name, for they have no proof that he is dead. \No death certificate, no anything.\ · The plight of the Biafran people is a topic on which McGuire spends relatively little time, because he feels the subject has been adequately covered by American reporters, and also because the airlift crews seldom stay in Biafra longer than four hours - the time it takes to unload 30 tons of baby food, or Mausers, or whatever from the Constellations. He does, however, venture to add a few vignettes to the picture of the people. Pilots on flights into Biafra carry canned hams and salt to give to the unloaders as an incentive for faster work. On one of his flights, a bag of salt burst; the Biafrans fought one another to lick the spillen salt of But in the end, the Nigerians and B iafrans are still the principal parties and that doesn't make for a neat war. \Their psychology is different. We'd fight harder if we knew we'd be cut up into little pieces if we were captured, but they figure on putting a little fear into the other side,\ he says. Last April, McGuire helped to ferry Col. \Black Jack\ Schramme's white mercenaries out of the Congo to Rwanda, and he says that even the mercenaries, by some accounts the most unpleasant white men around - felt a little bitterness at the African fighting style. \They (the mercenaries) feel that they're getting paid to kill a man. Okay, that's their business, so they'll kill him, but they won't tease him first; cut him into little pieces first.\ Like the prostitute with the heart of gold, the soldier who quakes at the sight of senseless human misery (see the Green Berets) is becoming a well-known cliche, but McGuire slides into the type, probably not as a sham. He is more a soldier of fortune than a soldier, however, for he says he never carried a gun, even for personal protection in Biafra. (\I figured we had enough guns and ammo on the plane already.\) He left Biafra at the end of July after his mother died in the United States and his close call made his suspicious of the safety of the airlift's flying procedures but he wants to return there, this time for expenses only. The work of the missionaries, principally a Father Doran, convinced hlm that he should do something more than fly for pay: \They're good people, they're trying to do what they can,\ he says of the missionaries' efforts to keep the Biafrans' hair •' ZELLMER'S NORGE LAUNDRY AND CUANING VILLAGE AT 1559 VAN VRANKEN AVE. (at Hottie Streett DR:Y CLf:ANING WASHER& 8 Lbs. ----------- $2.00 12 Lb.------------ .25 4 lb. Min.-----·-- 1.00 20 Lb.------------ .35 DRYERS 30 Lb. _____ : _ _ _ _ _ _ .50 10 Min.----------- .10 OPEN- 8 A.M. to .t 0 P. M. Mofi. to Sat.-10 A.M. to 6 P.M. Sundays IF YOU HAVE NEVER HAD NORGE DRY CLEANING DONE WE CAN BET YOU WILL BE AMAZED from turning blonde (the last stage before death by starvation) by flying in food, principally baby food for the festering mouths of the people. The problem is, McGuire says, that he as an airman can fly the food in, but there is no guarentee that it will reach those who need it. \It goes here, it goes there, it goes everywhere.\ he says sadly. So he wants to return, go back to Biafra, this time on the ground to supervise distributioa of food supplies as a worker for the Red Cross or other charitable agency. \I know the people, I know the operation, I want to make sure this food .gets where it's supposed to, he comments. Though he doesn't. say so, there's probably a little more to it than that. Life on Long Island is, to put it mildly, a little quiet for a man who, after a few beers, tells with relish a story of how he convinced a Chinese chieftain in a Viet-Minh controlled village to sell 1200 pigs to the French army. The chief, he concludes, wanted to keep things quiet, and a few extra silver bars - \Oil money\ he says, rubbing his fingers- \didn't hurt either.\ So McGuire takes out his crumpled, Purplish passport, which has $1 0 bills folded stay there long, you might guess. \ \ I ·;..,.- i b ! I • \ Whe J assignm( I rally an ·~was han ; the p t ·l j Stud ) ,I 1 1 )\' In ' partici · 1 1 govern1 Barrett It officers '------------' 1 1 1 .,.have d Don Barrett, Class of '69: \I member think it's fine. After all, girls are commit1 the other half of the humant , \~- ~· student5 rac.,e.\ Barrett advocated · Anyc coeducation from the standpoint serve or that it would permit Union men should 1 to \get to know girls 011 an equalt · 11 Council basis,\ rather than on 'a weekend Student date basis, where they have on 1 Student \social facades.\ We would get~ chairme to know girls as people and not ' be app as lily white love objects.\ and v Council .~ This , decided Big Bold Plaid Su.itin.gso commi commit 1 ' need a Comm possibl Very Traditional. (, Very col<>rful, yet very traditional because of Deansgate's understated soft shoulder tailoring. Yes, you can . · ~. wear this plaid wool suit in.town or in - country. Its manners are impeccable. In a host of eolors to choose from. $95. Dean.sgate• Dall's Men's Shop 1599 UPPER UNION STREET f ~pre sen educati propos: to the ' :commi current College .,.change: An the t Honor 411will dr Union presenl consid1 rr Relatic respon impro · ~relatio Ma com pi: acade •Union year co lie Comn a possil pre sen hopef1 fJ calend of oth Tht which ff sumn Week( under ,,,Rubin stude1 arranE pro1 throu: t' L ' Prt 11

. ,. Anarchist Reports On New Social-Event ·Dormitory For Girls He flips past sta.rnp from s out a page, t' entry stamps with no stamp -, ~. s clandestine th a little it back into.~ ,. It won't might guess. by Danny Shocket • When received my assignment to cover the Wallace I rally and protest in Albany, I . ~~was handed a Oyer announcing ; the protest (sponsored by ~ .l jStudent Council \ I by Jim Stillman 1·\ li)-. In o r de r to broaden 'participatio11 in Stude11t · I government at Union, the li officers of the year's counc. il ·I rl\' d h ____ _~ , have ecided to open t c of '69: \I membership on Student Council r all, girls are committees to all interested the human( ~·students. WALLACE everybody from \The Brothers\ to \Citizens for O'Dwyer\) and a news article headlined \Cops C h a r g ·e W a II a c e R a 11 y Demonstrators\. So, with trepidation, an old foot ball helmet, and a wet handkerchief, I joined 10 other Union radicals (this is not a qualitive statement) in one overloaded car (the model for \Unsafe At Any Speed\) and ventured to meet the enemy, Upon arrival, I discovered we were not alone. There were students from all over the entire area gathered to see and drown out Wallace. There were assorted civic and non-civic groups to provide entertainment. What I feared would be a riot was actually the biggest \mixer\ ever held in all of Albany. Removing my football helmet, I began to relax. and enjoy myself. The party started wi.th a get-acqHainted rally across the street from the Capitol steps (mai11 party sight). There were par,ty decoratiom by Graffitti (\If you liked Hitler, YOU'LL LOVE WALLACE\ \.BIGOT\, \'LORE AND ORDURE\). The rally started into fl!lll swing with a community sing. Then a member of the \Brothers\ called Wallace a racist and a pig. More singing. Someone else called Wallace a racist. Speeches by John Kennedy and Martin Luther King were read. A \Bro~her\ leader said he'll kill Wallace if Wallace is elected. .More singing. For the mixed media fans the te'levision cameras went around interviewing every body. Slow;Jy, the rally began to split into groups: o11e group stayed at the rally while another went to meet the featured gttest. Most of the party went to see George (after all I went to the same party he did). At first, I couldn't see him. I began to believe there was no George Wallace. As I forged in further, I saw him but I couldn't hear him. Rather than be n party·pooper, I booed when I heard applause. Feeling I was a hanger-on rather than n real guest, I moved closer to the speaker. Soon, I could hear the word. '-;ailiiliiiiiiiiliiiliiiiili;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ The anarchists (the guests) I were mentioned frequently by George. The guests would then yell at George and George would insult us (!,ike the excellent sport he is, George always gave the crowd the last laugh). George would point at us and we would give him half the .peace sign. . J A ftcr his speech, George did his imi,tatioR of Peter Sellers in \'Henry Orient\. Remember when Sellers waves and smiles at ·~ a crowd that wants his head? George did it perfectly. Welcome to the revolution. No invitation necessary. NOTE: Wallace said the . anarchists will take over the streets and stores. If you have aBy store you would especially care to take, notify Danny Shockct, President, Ad Hoc Committee to Distribute Stores to Anarchists (AHCDSA), 360 Fox. Liquor and drug stores are going fast. {f : ::: .,-~ ''·, •liJIIII\\' The North College hotel will be open for women guests on Homecoming Weekend, October 18-19. Lance Spallholz, president of the Union Inter-residence Council said the rootr.a will also be open any weekend 111 which • twenty guests are registered. Guests must be registered before the Wednesday of the weekend.· Students must obtain blankets and pillows for t:Jteir dates. Sheets and towels are provided. A charge of five dollars covers both Friday and Saturday nights. The maximum number of persons accommodated last year · was fifty. However the n0rth section of the building may be opened this year which will double the capacity. -~- advocated . Anyone who would like to standpoint serve on any of the committees New Science Center Union men should write a short letter to the s 011 an equal' · 11 Council and place it in the weekend Student Council mailbox in the have on Student Activities office. The would get 1 chairmen of the committees will ople and not ' be appointed by the Council, jects.\ and will members of the Council. .~ This year the officers have , decided to have six standing committees~ however, other committees will be formed if the traditional in $95. (, 1 ' need arises. The Maintenance Committee will investigate possible alternatives to the ~present system of physical education and will draw up a proposal which will be presented to the Council. The Publications :committee will look into the current rules governing Union College publications and suggest ,.. changes if they are necessary. A new committee this year is the Academic Honesty and Honor Code Committee which t· •will draw up an honor code for Union College which will be presented to the Council for consideration. The Community \Relations Committee will be responsible for finding ways to improve campus-community f · \'relations. Many students have complained about the present academic calendar because • Union starts and ends the school year later than most other colleges. The Calendar Committee will investigate a possible alternatives to the present college calendar and hopefully come up with a lJ calendar more in line with that of other colleges. The last committee is one which has been at work over the f.f summer preparing for Fall Weekend. The Social Conunittee under the chairmanship of Stu ,,,Rubin and Joe Furlong needs students who want to help arrange big weekends as well as provide entertainment throughout the year. Is Slig,htly Behind by Paul Farnham Un.ion's new $6 million Science Center now being constructed just beyond the Social Sciences Building should be occupied by the fall of 1 970. Housing departments in the Division of Science and Engineering, the complex is presently slightly behind schedule. According to Harold Usher, Head of the Physical Plant, no other big delays are foreseen and work should soon be back on schedule. The completed center will have eight sections: Bailey Hall, the Electrical Engineering Building, and Butterfield Hall pIus five new \pavillions\. Designed for maximum flexibility, the new structure will have no interior bearing walls so that space can be rearranged at minimum cost. West Spaces \Wet\ spaces the laboratory and research areas rc quiring heavy supplies of liquids, e.g. for chemistry and biology - will be in one section and \dry\ areas, such as those used in physics and electrical engineering, will be in another. Air-conditioned throughout, the Science Center will have glass plumbing for waste disposal to eliminate the problem of corrosion by acids. The Departments of biology, chemistry and physics and the laboratories for mechanical and electrical engineering will be housed in the new structures. Psychology and mathematics will be located in Bailey Hall. 0 ff ices and classrooms for mechanical and civil engineering and the computer center will be DARI TREET RESTAURANT YOUR CHOICE CHAR-BROIL STEAK VEAL CUTLET CHICKEN ... $1.50 2049 Van Vronken Ave. FR 7-4261 in the present electrical engineering building. Civil engineering and geology will be moved into Butterfield Hall. Existing science buildings to be used in the new complex will be evacuated as soon as the new structure is completed so that renovation may be started. Modification of these buildings should take about nine months. Full occupancy of all buildings is expected by the fall of 1971. Rubicon Opens Plans have been announced for The Rubicon, a magazine designed to fill the void between the newspaper and the literary magazine. Political commentary, book reviews, humor, and the esotoric will form the basis of the magazine. A meeting will be held Tuesday, October 29, at social sciences I I 5, at which Abby Stillman, editor, will choose a staff. Publishing three times a year, The Rubicon will accept contributions from the fa:culty, administration, students, and national figures. Newman Meets Stressing the \Immortality of th.e Vietnam War\ at the first meeting of the Newman Association Tuesday night, Father James Murphy noted that it did not meet the established Christian criteria for determining the justice of war. High civilian casualties and the vague reasoning of the Johnson Administration, in addition to the lack of Vietnamese self-determination have made the war undesirable by \Christian standards.\ THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeots from all over the world. 406 STATE ST. Redecorate where you meditate, translate, conjugate. Send for your set today. G.B. CO .. lNC .. ROCH .. tf.Y. GENESEE BEER POSTERS, P. 0. BOX 701, ROCHESTER, NEW YORK 14603 Enclosed is $-~- for ____ sets of Psychedelic Beer Posters at $1.00 per set. _ -·ADDRESS __ CITY . STATE ---- -- ~ _ZIP

Sting The Yellowjockets Concordy Sports Beat Hamilton I-: Rochester Eleven Looms Tough by Gary Prevost A year ago at Alexander Field, Rich Swan's one-man show was largely responsible for a 13-7 win over the Yell o wjackets of Rochester. Tomorrow, the 1-1 Garnet gridders travel to the Kodak City for the sixty-third renewal of the series. Union trai'ls overall, 34-24-4. Swan will be in the lineup, but the pressure will he increased with Craig Carlson disabled. After a good pre-season injury,wisc, the GArnet disabled list is growing. In addition to the missing Carlson, defensive end John Burton, who was outstanding in the Kings Point contest, will be sidelined with a knee injmy. The rest of the injury list is more encouraging. Jerry Ostrander and Kevin Monahan are fully recovered, while Steve C'iesinski has a shoulder bruise, but will play. Coach Flood will be starting Ostrander, Ken Pearce, and either Joe James or Larry Sykes in the backfield, with Art Jacobs at flanker. Ostrander will only play flanker if Jacobs is injured. The 1968 Yellowjackets are also 1-1, having opened with a 14-6 win over Hamilton before falling 7-6 to powerful Williams. Rochester moved the ball well Harriers Seek To End Skein Saturday marks the day that the Union cross-country team goes after the impossible. The longest current losing string on campus goes on the line when the harriers meet Clarkson at home. Chances are fair that the four year string of losses will go down the drain. The match looms as a tossup. \1vron Frihush looks to he the \numhcr nne man at the moment. In pr;,H.:tice he l1as come into his own right JS a long distance runner. John Braham and Joe Burgess are right on Fribush's heels giving the squad a solid first three. Rich Coo perwasser and M.ario Fischetti round out the first five on the eve of the first contest. The injured Terry McManus is a crucial question mark for Saturday. Coach Coleman is \optimistic\ and considers Clarkson to be \tough and experienced\. OBERST NA'MED Garnet defensive tackle Tom Oberst was selected for the EC AC Division II Team of the Week for his play against Kings Point last Saturday. He anchored the defensive unit which allowed the Mariners 249 yards on the ground and only IS years through passing. SKI INSTRUCTORS Weekend positions available · for skiers to instruet high school boy's and girls. Pl'ior in- . struction experience not re- quired. Good compensation. Excellent ski facilities. SHAKER VILLAGE SKI GROUP · Write or Call: Shaker Road, New Lebanon, N.Y. Lebanon Springs (N'.Y .) 7-1255 Down to Louis', let us go, Let the lager freely flow. against the Ephmen, but beat themselves with mistakes. The Yellowjackets are coming off a 4-4 season in which they lost their four games by a total of only thirteen points. Rochester is led by senior quarterback Bob Young. Young is an excel! en t passer who will be throwing to tight end Rich Hart and speedy split end Bob Ward, both of whom have been less than adequate in the first two games. Sophomore fullback John Cogar, a 200-lb. runner, is the workhorse in the backfield, wllile co-captain Dave Lyons holds down the halfback spot. The Yellowjacket offensive line is small, but has been fairly effective so far this year. Defensively, Rochester is led by Junior tackle Bob Clarke and co-captain John Ginnetti. a denfensive halfback. 'The defensive secondary was shown to be vulnerable against Hamilton, but was untested by the grounded Williams eleven. Tomorrow's contest is a pivotal one for the Garnet , as they try to regain momentum toward the first winning grid season since 1956. Rochester ·is a tough team, and playing the game in Rochester is a definite disadvantage for the Garnet. In the past five years, the grid<lers have won only two games outside of the Capital District. Pucksters Planning s,eaSO'M by BiU Holleran With the winter months not far ahead, the Union College Hockey Club has already begun planning for its coming season. At a recent club meeting, the most important item of business was the approval of a constitution, which was to be submitted to the Tax Committee of the Student Council as a first step towards obtaining a club charter and much-needed money from the College. The money, if donated, will be used to rent practice ice-time at either the R.P.I. Field House, or the rink in nearby Niskayuna, and to buy such essential equipment as sticks, gloves, jerseys, and goalkeepers pads. A lack of depth was the key to last season's 0-2 log, as the Dutchmen could put only one good attacking line and three defensemen on the ice during the game. Even so, in their second game of the season, the GArnet icemen stunned Hamilton's JV for two periods, skating to a 5-3 lead. The pucksters, however, simply ran out of gas in the third stanza as Hamilton banged in four goals to win 7-5. This season looks to be different from last in that more energy will be spent practicing and playing hockey. Last year, the Gamet sextet played but two games, with few practices between. This year, however, the pucksters hope to practice at least twice a week, \With practice beginning late this October. The club also plans a more grueling schedule of five or six games against other area club teams and college N's, and is considering joining a Troy club league. 'fhus, by playing more games against better teams, and hopefully by winning a few of these contests, the Union Hockey Club hopes to realize its main objective - the promotion of hockey interest at Union. . . Boo.ters lm.pr .. e-ssive ' ' . ., . If one game is any indication of an entire season, then Union's freshman soccer team is well on its way to making this a successful one. Behind the great goal-keeping of Dave Block, the Garnet produced an impressive 3-1 win over the 'usually. strong Middlebury frosh Wednesday afternoon. Union broke the scoring ledger first. Ira Turret,~. assisted by Myles Richard, put the ball in the net at 12:30 of the fitst period. Although both teams had chances to score after that, Union didn't increase its lead until Pierre Roumain put a penalty kick in with two seconds remaining in the third period. The penalty had been called after a Middlebury hands ball in the penalty area. Middlebury came back to narrow the score DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on NoH Street Open Daily 1 0 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to 1 A.M. to 2-1 midway into the fourth period when a shot beat Dave Block. But the Dutchmen came right back to lengthen its le~d to 3-1. In a scramble in front ot Middlebury's net Richard scored with an assist from Ro uman to close qut the scoring. Coach Robert Benson thought the team looked its best since the first scrimmage session. The lines showed plenty of hustle and he was espe.-cially impressed by the performances of Block, Larry Mullman at center half and Ford Stryker at center fullback. However, there was still not enough ball control as the trapping was weal The squad will still have to learn to spread out more and have more midfield play. Now•s The Time To MARRY ME A unique place t<'l dine with old European Atmosphere Z so Z sa has engaged. • • . How About You. NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State. and Erie Blvd. NOW IN OUR 74th YEAR Signed Husband #3 Buy your Wedding Ring or En· gogement Ring at Maur.lce B. Graubarl & Sons Jewelers, 166 Joy St. Frosh Gridders Take On Trinity by Walt Spencer A handicaJ.i>ped freshman football team is depending on outstanding individual efforts to defeat Trinity today. Last year, the Bantams beat the Union frosh by one tot1chdown. on the way to an undefeated season. The team's .greatest problem is lack of organization. The squad has benefited from only twelve practices since the season began September 27. During this time, the frosh have had to learn the KiAgs Point and Rochester offenses and ·defenses to help the varsity. As a result, they have had only a few hours work on their own offense. Coach Bruce Allison has felt that he could spend only a few minutes each day in conditioning and as a result he says the frosh are just \not in top shape.\ Injuries have taken their toll. What would have been a strong defensive front four has been turned into a question mark by injuries. Defensive tackle Rich Bauerband is out for the season with a blood condition. The other defensive tackle, Jay Keller, is bothered by a persistent shoulder injury. If Keller cannot play, Frank Ferrara, and Gary Morris will have to play both offense and defense. Bill Jones is the back-up tackle. The pass receiving situation is still fluid. Larry Bloom will open at wingback. Hunter Townsend will start at split end. Mike Kumpf will also see duty at either wingback or end. He is recovering· from an arm injury that cost him three days of practice. In obvious passing situation, Coach Allison will use all three wide receivers. p Varsity Boaters Split Two by Mike Reger Uni()n' s varsity soccer team broke even this week by upsetting the University of Rochester on Monday, 2-1, and by dropping a 3-1 decision to St. LawreBoee yesterday. ScoriNg first for the Garnet in the Rochester contest was junior Bob Ok~llo, who scored the only goal dul\ing the first half. Senior co-captain Mike Solomon added the other Garnet goal in the thlrd period. During the fourth period, Okello was involved in a collision with the Rochester goaHe :in which he sustained a shoulder separation which will sideline him for the remainder of the season. The Y ellowjackets scored their lone goal late in the fourth :period. SCialdone Scores In the St. Lawrence game, Union drew fitst blood as sophomore Fury Scialdone scored unassisted at 2:47 of the second period. The Lanies came back to tie the score at the end of the period with a shot from in front of the goal. .St. Lawrence iced tae game in the middle of the third period with a goal that resulted from a \header\ on a comer kick. St. Lawrence added anotl1e r marker in the fourth period to make the final tally 3-1 in their favor. Sophomore Mike Pitt has done a tremendous job in the goal aad Chris Swan, also a soph, looked good in Thursday's game as Oke:llo's replacement at right inside. SWIM CAPTAINS The 1969 Garnet swimming team has elected seniors Steve Wedin and Kevin Hoben as its co-captains. Werlin holds the New York State butterfly marks at 1&0 and 200 yards, and competed at the NCAA Championships last spring in Atlant~. Hoben is a freestyler. The Gamet's next match is an away encounter with Hartford on Saturday. Frosh 'Thinclads To Run Monday Next week opens, and doses, the freshman cross-country season. The frosh runners, under the tutelage of Coach Ron Coleman, have hopes ·Of a highly successful season, as they run four meets in five days. Key man on the squad is Bryant Moeckel, who has · already set one course record in a practice meet, and has the t------ Vol. 98 I paten tial to snap several more marks. However, success in cross-country is predicated on ba'lance and depth. Behind Moekel is a solid nucleus of Dave · \\ ' Rice, Tom Klink ow, and Paul Forbes. Battling for the important fifth spot are Larry Thornton, Keith Jamba, and Bob Baas. Overall, the squad is small but talented. This lack of depth , I ~ could cause trouble if injuries hit. The members of the frosh squad, should they continue to develop, will definitely be assets to next year's varsity. The season opens against LaSallette Monday, while Tuesday the , . ,.' harriers face Hobart. St triumph Saturda~ lbt ~t\ttlork ~imts FOR SUBSCRIPTIONS CALL D. Peter Drotman 346-8614 Weekdays Only - $5.50 Sundays Only - $5.50 7 Days -$10.50 Bi Desc breath Theodo O'Dwy( ~ some c::J Alth Bikellu \ House, ,• · the en audienc Thr J Greenv. upstate profess Albany Family as the : hopefu ... The the st spec tat him. ; ..c Call B.ikel s have tc The I= ., State, have t< Res ~ dissent Ba ) ' ~ ,j IJ Hig Hornec TIH • partie~ fraterr La1 , 1 get-toJ Fo1 8:301 So, mand: ~ I A BB-rTBR GRADE OF HOPS In brewing our supply of hopsacking suits, we demand cloath of a better grade-and procure it, at cost of no little effort. The cost to the wearer, although it be of rarest woollens, is minimal. $75.00 to $100.00 • • ) $.1 T1 Octo \!' Tick, coup

IJ 1 wo , I .. ~ \A Causa Persa Parole Assai\ Sleepy Council Page 2 natch is an 1 Hartford Founded at Union College 1877 t--------------------------------------------------------------------------~~------~------------------------------------------------ Vol. 98 No.5 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., OCTOBER 15, 1968 PRICE TWENTY CENTS -lads on.day '' and closes, ~ )SS-country ners, under oach Ron of a highly ~ they run s. ~ squad is who has' ;e record in td has the ~vera! more success in dicated on h. Behind eus of Dave , and Paul for the t are Larry amba, and is small but of depth if injuries f the frosh continue to :ly be assets rrsity. The , I o:.. t LaSallette 1esday the , ,.' Strong Gamet defensive line stops a Yello'hjacket back in Saturday's 21-7 triumph at Rochester. Union will take on Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute this Saturday at Homecoming. Sophomores To Convene Tonight, Shinagel, Ziegler, Others Will Speak by Alan Mell The maintenance program is expected to come under attack when Professor Michael Shinagel speaks to the Sophomore Class tonight at 8:00 in SS 016. Freshmen are invited to attend. Sophomores will have their first opportunity to listen to and judge the new Dean of Students, Edward Malloy, who is one of six scheduled speakers. The other faculty members scheduled to speak are Professor Underwood, who will discuss Student-Faculty Committees, and Mr. Terry, who is working with the Upward Bound and Big Brother Programs. In addition, Alan Ziegler will try to familia.rize his audience with The Community, a group already active in destroying the freshmen class stigma, as represented by the beanie. Finally, Neil Gordon will present his proposal for changing social rules. The meeting has been arranged by Bill Dawson, President of the Sophomore Class. Dawson is dissatisfied with the lack of a sense of unity displayed by most Union classes. \In the past, all the classes have done is run weekends,\ Dawson pointed out yesterday. \We want to do much more. The weekend should be secondary.\ will appear tonight. The meetings are designed to give students a chance to hear the viewpoints of involved professors and students. At last year's meeting, the new grading system, originally set to go into effect this term, was discussed. After the meeting, the administration agreed to postpone the new system, which would employ pluses and minuses, until its effects could be further studied. A school band to play at football games was also suggested a year ago. Tonight Dawson will announce that the band is ready for Saturday's game. I· 1 ;Bikel Enlivens Gat~ering Despite the attempt to play down weekends, a progress report on preparations for Fall Weekend will be made tonight. In addition to the Judy Collins Concert on Saturday night, the Sophomores plan to hold a talent show the night before, either in N ott Memorial, or, should there be a very large turnout, in Memorial Chapel. Don Kessler is organizing the show. Freshmen have been invited, says Dawson, to \wake them up to problems around campus. They will be satisfied with what they have here until we make them aware of the problems Union has.\ Dawson hopes that the freshmen class will hold similar meetings after they elect their officers next month. rk TIONS ·man - $5.50 - $5.50 -$10.50 ;. 0 0 by Larry Friedman . . Described by one spectator as \a · breath of fresh air\ the arrival of Theodore Bike! at last Friday's Paul O'Dwyer rally probably salvaged what ~ some called a disastrous evening. Although the prospect of hearing Bikellured many students to the Field House, it soon became apparent that '' · ,.. the ennui was too much for the audience to bear. Throughout speeches by Bill ) Greenwald, director of O'Dwyer's upstate campaign; Norman Levy, professor of American History at Albany State; and music by The Family Jewels, many people departed as the audience milled around, waiting hopefully for better things. , .._, Then, at 10:30, Bike! walked onto the stage prompting the remaining spectators to gather attentively around him. Calling O'Dwyer a man of principle, Bike! said, \This is the one chance we have to rebuild the Democratic Party. The political bosses of New York \ State, as well as Mayor Daley, will have to go!\ Responding to those who believe 1 ~ dissent to be unpatriotic, he said, \My ) 0 4lo country is right when it is right, and wrong when it is wrong; and this must be said loudly!\ \Everyone who is old enough to wield an argument,\ stressed Bike!, \is old enough to help Paul O'Dwyer. If we don't give up today, then it will be our year in 1972!\ At the conclusion of his remarks, the audience stood and broke up into long applause and cheers. He then sang four songs, interspersing remarks about his experiences as a delegate to the Chicago convention with the lyrics. When he sang \Michael Row The Boat Ashore\ the crowd joined in quietly. In that song, he interjected his own Lyrics which cautioned George Wallace to watch out for Julian Bond, the 28 year old Leader of the Georgia Freedom Delegation who was nominated for vice president. That verse received strong applause. After the brief concert, Bike! signed autographs and answered questions such as: \Do you see any hope at all, Mr. Bikel, for the next four years?\ He responded, \Well they certainly are going to be dismal. As far as the presidency goes, Hubert Humphrey at Highlighted by the annual football clash against arch rival RPI, this year's Homecoming will feature parties and gatherings for both alumni and freshmen. The Big Game starts at l :30 PM at Alexander Field, with postgame cocktail • parties to follow. Most of these gatherings are limited, however, to alumni and fraternity brothers. Later, 14 of the houses will have open parties, and independents will sponsor a , 1 , IJ< get-togehter at Fox House. For those with really strong stomachs, there will be a Faculty Square Dance at 8:30PM in Old Chapel. So, this weekend will provide entertainment ranging from the esoteric to the oJ . .;. mandane; ENJOY! tj i ~ ' . I. Fraternity Alpha Delta Phi ~Beta Theta Pi · Chi Psi Delta Chi Delta Phi Delta Upsilon Kappa Alpha Phi Delta Theta Phi Epsilon Pi Phi Gamma Delta Phi Sigma Delta Phi Sigma Kappa Psi Upsilon Sigma Chi Sigma Phi Theta Delta Chi Friday Open Beer Party Open Beer Party None Open Beer Party- Band None None Open Party- 8:00PM Open Party None Closed Party None None Open Beer Party Open Beer Party None Closed Party Saturday Open Party Open Party Open Party Open Party Open Party Closed Party Closed Party Open Party Open Party Open Party Open Party Open Party Uncertain Open Beer Party Open Party Open Party The DEC~UIC will hold an open party, open to all students on Saturday, October 19; with cocktails from 5:00 to 6:00, and a dance from 9:00 to l :00. ) It• Tickets, which will be sold at the door and prior to the event will be $3.50 per couple, and $2.50 stag. his worst is still a smidgen better than N ix.on at his best. \'It is frightening to note that Richard Nixon may have the chance, if elected, to appoint three justices to the Supreme Court. Just think of the far reaching effects this could have. Nixon it's a thought more frightening than ... \ Last spring the Class of '71 held a meeting similar to tonight's. About 65% of the class turned out then and Dawson is hoping as many or more Despite the extensive program, the meeting is scheduled to last only one hour. Speeches will be kept short to ensure complete coverage of the agenda. COUNCIL VACilLATES ON CO-ED ISSUE by Harris Ginsberg The Community, \concern\ during election week, Committee appointments, and co-education ranked high on the agenda of the Student Council meeting Monday. October 14 in Hale House. The meeting opened with questions and answers concerning the new group called The Community. There seems to be \a lack of action\ in this school, especially in the arts, stressed Al Ziegler. Last year the IFC presented an Arts Festival, which was successful. The college also has the Moving Finger, which Ziegler said, fails to receive much recognition. He emphasized the benefits of arts to enrich Union College. Also presented was the IFC suggestion that buses be supplied to transport Union men and their dates to and from the respective girls schools, Russell Sage and Skidmore. Next on the agenda was the ratification of constitutions for the following clubs: The Hockey Club, for those in the college and Schenectady community interested in playing hockey, intercollegiately or \just to skate\; The Big Brother Club, a corrununity-geared program including Upward Bound, Big Brothers, and Student Council Officers from left Jim Stillman, Rusty Manker, and Danny Aronson preside at Monday's council meeting. tutorial services; The Circle K, a service club connected with Kiwanis; and The Rubicon a new magazine which will unite the ideas of The Symposium and The ldol. Concern On a national tone, Rusty Manker, Student Council President proposed that the student council issue a statement that during the election week there be a demonstration of concern. \Signify that you sympathize by wearing a black and white arm-band,\ which will be supplied by the council. This \concern\ would apply to any opinions of the student body, pro or con the presidential candidates or political procedures. After reporting on committee appointments in such areas as Maintenance, Social Rules, and Publications, the. issue of co-education loomed forth. At first, whether or not the council should take a stand was discussed. It was defeated. Due to the statements of freshman, Walter Spenser, that the council \averted the issue of co-education\ and that \it will never gain the respect and participation of the student body\ \if you duck the issue\ the members revoted on taking a stand. The vote was 88% to support the faculty decision. Juniors Plan \Splendor I 11 Grass\ John Dos ~passos Class President Ed Buzak and 25 other juniors met Thursday to plan a hayride for the Friday night Fall Weekend. The Student Activities Office will begin selling tickets tomorrow, to juniors only. Space is limited. The hayride will begin at lOPM, at Kittell's Farm on Vichers Ferry Road in Elnora. It should last about two hours. During a break, fires will be lit for those wishing to roast hot dogs or marshmallows. Participants should bring refreshments, blankets, guitars, and kazoos. Also at the meeting, Joe Furlong and Glenn White were chosen to represent the class on the Alumni Council. The council meets twice a year - on Homecoming Weekend and once irt the spring. Each uridergraduate class is entitled to a representative and an alternate, but has only one vote. A dinner dance for the class has been tentatively scheduled for either the last Saturday in February or the first Saturday in March. Details will be made available as soon as plans are definite. .Possibilities for Spring Weekend entertainment were also discussed at the meeting. Groups suggested were Simon and Garfulkle, The Fifth Dimension, The Temptations, Dionne Warwick, Aretha Franklin, Sergio Mendes, Big Broth~r and the Holding Company, and others. The tentative date of the weekend is May 16-17. John Dos Passos, noted American author, will speak on \Hopes and Hazards of the Pursuit of Literature\ at a convocation Wednesday at 8:00PM in Memorial Chapel. From his \One Man's Initiation\ in 1 916 to \The Best Times\ in 1966, Dos Passos has displayed a strong concern for social justice and individual dignity. Born in Chicago in 1896, Dos Passos lived as a child in Mexico, Belgium, England, Washington, D.C. and at a farm in Westmoreland Courtty, Va. He has traveled over more extensively as an adult.

OPINION: fRES. R\~TY nttNKER I Girls Shuttled A shuttle bus will be run between Union and Russel Sage on both Saturday morning and at curfew time Saturday night to give students the opportunity to pick up their dates. It will be necessary to have twenty-two Union men and their dates to charter the bus for the four runs. If there is inadequate response, these will not be continued. The cost will be $1.5 0 for a single ticket; $3.00 per couple. Interested students should sign up in the Student Activities Office by Wednesday. Garnet On Sale A limited number of copies of the 1968 Garnet will be on sale Wednesday and Thursday from 1: 00-5:00 p.m. on the second floor, middle section, North College. Debate Tuesday Student Council A Disappointment Arguing the national topics: \Resolved: That Executive Control of United States Foreign Policy Should Be Significantly Curtailed;\ The Philomathean Debate Society will lock horns with St. Rose College in their opening match, next Tuesday at 7:00PM here. EDITOR'S NOTE: Walter Spencer Monday evening became the first member of the Class of '72 to witness a Union Student Council meeting in progress. Here are his impressions of the year's-second meeting of Union's student government association: by Walter Spencer '72 Union's student council meets in the Student Lounge of Hale House. This lounge is a sedate room with style of decorating from a period far removed from campus life. When I attended my first council meeting as an observer I found that the attitude taken by council members also was far removed. The council meeting started with two members facing the wall opposite the president and making no attempt to turn around. Within the first half hour as the council approved the constitutions of various organizations members dozed, studied, and whispered to each other. On one motion four members did not vote although President Rusty Manker asked for abstentions. The report on committee formations was presented. There is a problem because no non-council members and very few council members were interested in berving. No definite action was taken. Qlnurnr Pub II sh<>d Tuesday aJ1d Fr~day dur· ing thf'. school rear bv thE' Student Bodv of UntonCollf)gP. SC\hPnPrtadv N.Y. Nat tonal AdverttstnR Repre-- sentattve. Nat1ondl Educdttonal Ad\ertas1ng Servtre. Inc-.. lollPgP Puhhshers Repr€'se-ntat1ve 360 LPxtngton AvenuP. N. 'r'. C. Near the end of the agenda the question of co-education was brought up. A motion was made that the council take a stand favoring co-education. The members voted this down after four minutes of discussion. The vote was, by this observers count, three yes, four no, and nine abstentions. The vote was not to be interpreted as meaning that the student council opposed co-education. The councilmen preferred not to take a stand. Finally it was suggested to the council that they could never expect to command the respect of the student body if they refused to take a stand on the controversial issues. It was made clear that by electing them to the council their class mates had shown a degree of respect for their judgement. The council then proceeded to vote 15 to two to take a position supporting the Niemeyer report. This vote was preceeded by the first lively debate of the session. Everyone was awake, facing the president, quiet, and not studying. The answer to Student Council problems, as I see it, is an increased interest on the part of students and an increased sense of responsibility on the part of members. I would also say that one would generate the other and that at the present time Union has neither. At the Edttona1 Ofhc.-. Old Gym, Umon Colle.:e PublicatiOn Offtce, Whtte- hurst Punttng & Btndang Co .. (nc ., 416-418 Ftfth Ave .. Troy. 235·4450. EnterE\d tn th£1' s,:henectady Post QtrscE> as. SeC'ond Class Mall Matter. Suhsrrtptlon 20¢ a ropy; $6 a year delivered anywhere 1n the Un1ted States. SENIOR BOARD D. Peter Drotman '69 .......... 346-8614 ............ Co-Editor in Chief Jeffrey C. Browne '69 ......... 346·9973 ............ Co-Editor in Chief Richard Lewis '70 ............. 346·1932 ............. Business Manager William Ouzer '71 ............. 377·8613 .............. Managing Editor Allen Gartner '71 .............. 3 77· 8613 . . . . . . . . . . . ...... News Editor Paul Andrews '71 ...................... · ................. Features Editor Leonard Simon 70 ...................................... Sports Editor Paul Farnham '70 ..................................... Associate Editor Alan Klein '69 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ................... Copy Editor JUNIOR BOARD Richard Kramer '7l ....................................................... Ph.otography Ed!tor Henry Fein '71 ........................................................ AssocJ.ate Sports Ed1tor Peter Weingold '7l.. .............................................. Ass?ciate Features Ed.itor Alan Cohen '71.. .................................................. Asststant Features Edttor Michael Swirsky '70 ........................................ National Advertising M~ager Jon Brunswick '70 ...................................................... :Distribution Drrector Carl Goldsand '70 ......................................................... Circulation Manager Larry Roth blum '70 ................................................... Subscrip.t~on Manager Jerry Levine '71 .................................................. Local Advert~s~ng Manager Jeff Birn '71 ....................................................... Local AdvertJSI.llg Manager meeting I attended there was one other non·voting person from the student body. If students express no interest the members won't consider it an honor to serve. The members must realize that they must take stands on issues which may be unpopular with some students before they gain students' respect. All this. of course, depends on communication betwee11 council and the student body. A step toward this was taken by Friday's article in The Concordiensis. Good use of WRUC would further this aim. In closing I would observe that the faculty and administration cannot be expected to have respect for the student council unless the students and the council members do. Its 18 members advised by Professor William J. Daniels, the Society's purpose is to \participate in intercollegiate debating and to promote stimulating discussion among the members.\ With tournaments scheduled at the University of Vermont, McGill, Brown, Hunter, Queens and Boston University, the \Philos\ hope to encourage more interest in the Society. Letters To The Editor To the Editor: For some unperceived reason, you seemed amazed that a student would have the audacity to ask to take proficiency tests on a Friday afternoon, unknowing that you were taking the afternoon off to attend a football game. Tests that. were given at a scheduled hour every afternoon were suddenly curtailed on Friday. Why was no advance notice given that the testers were taking the afternoon off? Perhaps the many students who could only fit their final test into their Friday afternoon schedule should have cut a Biology lab or skipped a Comp Ed lecture? (If there was someway of knowing that tests scheduled for every day would be cut out on Friday.) Also, why were no schedules posted by all the coaches of when the various tests would be given, so students could plan around their classes. 'For three Generations/ fhose Who Know •.. Have been ~~'ecommending - There was such a lack of organization in communication between the sports staff and the students that only the coaches, and students who catch them at an oppertune moment had any idea of what was going on. Case in point. A student inquired about the volleyball test and was told by a coach that it was given every afternoon at 1 :30. The student asked if that included Friday. The coach replied thl).t isn't Friday included in every afternoon? With approximately 20 students at the fieldhouse at 1 :30 PM, the tester failed to show up, and when other coaches were asked (in the stands at football games) why there was no test, they retorted that they had finished all testing. Bob Shages '72 Hank Levine '72 HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER \3 f.lnion Graduates in Graubart Family'• 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY RE: UNION · Tr1 by Paul Andrews The O'Dwyer rally Friday · night was largely a monumental disappointment to most of tpose who attended. The program started slow and tapered off with an endless hour-pills of rock and rhetoric, and by the time featured guest Theodore Bike] emerged most of the audience had departed. Bikel's stint suffered only in its brevity, however, and the program ended on a pleasing note. Noth Ed Rundell and Pete Starkweather should be thanked for bringing the rally to Union, and it should be noted that they made the best out of the unfortunate circumstances which were hopelessly out of their control. Our political secretary, Pol1y Sye, reports two more upcoming events of interest to Union pundits: Lawrence Katz of the Liberal Party will debate \Peace with Honor\ with Jacob H. Herzog, of the Democratic and Conservative Parties and Rep. Daniel E. Button, Republican and Citizens Parties candidate up for reelection tomorrow at 8 p.m. in the Linton High School Auditorium. Consultant AI Cohen describes Katz as a \heavy set guy with a sweeping beard\ whose views run parallel to Paul O'Dwyer's. Herzog ~san old-line Democrat and Button as a middle-of-the-roader Republican backing Nixon and Spiro T. Agnew. And if you care James MacGregor Burns will be in SS 016 at 3:30 p.m. Friday to talk about Hubie under the auspices of the Young Democrats. \We're really going to trip out this weekend,\ said Outing Club President Bill Michelfelder, describing the Saturday \Cave-In\, Sunday rock climbing and Friday through Sunday Adirondack Mountains hike \for experienced campers\ being sponsored by the club. If interested, you can discuss details at 4:30p.m. tomorrow in Hale House at the planning meet~g for this weekend: Then there was this headline in The New York Times yesterday: The PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP 262 Saratoga Road MAYFAIR SHOPPING CENTER At the Sign of the Red Neon Pipe TUES. thru SAT. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. also THURl. and FlU.: i to 9 PM SCOTIA, N.Y. Phone 399-1630 CHARLES OPTICIANS 604 Union St. FR 7-1283 Frames and Lenses Replaced Prescriptions Filled 'Major Blaze Sweeps British War Museum· It's nice to know The Times is giving good cov~rage to ?ur old friend, MaJor Percival \Sparks\ Blaze, Royal Air Force retired, now employed as ' custodia'n in the Imperial War Museum. The< ' 1 not l coeduca the Boa this sta1 ,,. fraught· the issue Top ,lit-Will VC \pre mat of the contacte WhY was the flag at half-mast !.\ night. A yesterday? \It may have ' \no con slipped,'' suggested Miss issue, Applegarth of the president's , ... emphasi 'office. Skip Mowry speculated, I · were inc however, that the heaVy morning j subject fog yesterday confused the , Novemb AFRO'TC candidates so much · ! ~' Mead that in desperation they raised the Boa the flag to their estimated height · is in fa of the flagpole. They fell about \ said he 5 0 f e e t s h o r t . B y ., · • _.afford i mid:;::afternoon, however, the fog I I'D like was gone, the ROTC people saw lA union, : their mista)ce, and the flag was .1 1 highest back at full staff. · j.~ coun tr The Flying Fickle Football of 1\' college,' d 0 · The Fate struck again aroun 11 :3 · · P.M. Saturday night - right on ~~~ ' would t one of the Davidson House fire : women alarms. The result was 20 1 ; H~milto m l.·nutes of uninterrupted ringing I; RJ.V' all over Davidson which RA \' Wayne Butler finally quelled with the aid of a campus cop L 'kt and his key. The other alarms, ' l . much shorter, were caused by ordinary baseballs. If you haven't already done so, turn in your coeducation questionnaire quick. The Administration had no word. as of yesterday on the progress of the vote. Nor is there a definite deadline for turning in the questionnaire. The Trustees, however, will be meeting in early November; vote will be tallied before then. Forms still can be picked up in the Administration building. In a battle of retorts at Theta Delta Chi, two sophomores wits, John Valentine and Bruce Lederer, were exchanging bon, mots: \You're a Pollack\ succinctly proposed Valentine, to which Lederer, unphased by the searing thrust, replied, '\I happen to be Swiss in origin.\ \All right then,\ said Valentine, smelling the scent of victory, \You're a dumb Swede.\ Acme Barber Shop 509 Union Street Experienced Barbers Nearest to Union College Students SKI INSTRUCTORS Weekend positions available for skiers to instruct hig\h school boy's and ~irls. Prior in- struction ex:per1ence not re- quired. Good compensation. Excellent ski facilities. SHAKER VILLAGE SKI GROUP Write or Call: Shaker Road, New Lebanon, N. Y. Lebanon Springs (N.Y.) 7·1255 •. Editc article ·. q article Times 1 29, 194 Conco1 H'!lsten. It Wl Hamlin· of the -through of Troy inhal;>ita • turning loudest them s River S \last s approp strip,. Wha remarka that ea has a pt \ attracts also hm Superfic freque indisti another that ea< . itself w indeed, striking foil owe ..,., retreats At through ~and fin · and w< many c school \\of whc distanct .,.\\! The similar general sophist attract~ The live througl been t strip's comp layout. -. its folic the sti therefc the i< PEGGY'S RESTAURANT •~ COJi.SUJ legally. 'Mark's ·~ high S< only r therefc card it Special 10\0 Discount For Union Students On $10 Meal Tickets 428 STATE ST. Call 346-9560 L_...__..._ ____________________ ~-1 ··' ~ door. Forl sha '' J et-sc 1 ·(.. establ I b tempe1 archite \-\ its foil

'Trustees Show Mixed Emotions on Co-Ed TlNo Austrians On Fullbrights .· The Times to our Percival Air Force ployed as ' perial War by Bruce H usten ·nearby Kirkland C ollcge. Mr. Brunet als:<J cum men ted The decision as to whether or that \the facl.ilty has been · t·not Union will adopt polled, the stu<lents arc being coeducation lies in the hands of polled, r:lesirab Jc high school the Board of Trustees, and at seniors arc bein15 polled, but no this stage the Board is clearly one seems to ask the alumni '\ fraught with mixed emotions on what they think and they, after the issue. all, are the on-es who support To poll the 23 trustees who Union flnanciallyf' ,l't. will vote on the issue is ' The faculty vote did surprise \premature\, according to five me,\ said Willia111 B. Jaffee from of the 12 Trustees who were New York CIty, \but contacted by Concordy last fundamentally l 'm not opposed half-mast ·. ,. '~' night. And while those five had to any change that will make have ' \no comment\ to make on the Union a better school.\ But, he Miss issue, the 0 ther seven continued, a 'major issue of president's , .... emphasized that their comments concern is whether the students speculated, \ were individual opinions that are want coeducation and also morning I subject to change following the whether the c~llege can afford the \ . November meeting of the Board. it. \In any case the worth of so much · ' ~' Meade Brunet, Chairman of raised the Board from Mendham, N.J., women - youtlg or old - can't height 1 is in favor of coeducation but be questioned ar1y more,\ Mr. fell about . \ said he doubts that Union can Jaffe quipped, ''and the sooner r t . B y ., .It afford it. \Before coeducation we get to know tit en the better.\ the fog 1~ I'D like to see a great student Louis D. Miltrnore, treasurer people saw I union, an arts center and the of the Board from Morristown, flag was .. \! 1 • 1 highest-paid faculty in the N.J., said \I'm in the process of of 11:30 right on House fire was 20 ringing RA quelled cop alarms, caused by done The word as progress of a definite in the Trustees, in early be tallied can be ti on at Theta wits, Bruce nging bon, Valentine, by '\I origin.\ said scent of a dumb available hig-h Prior in- not re- pensation. Y. NT 9560 !'~ country for this type of making up my mind and at this I ~· college,\ Brunet commented. point I really d()n't know how · The alternative, he added, I'll vote.\ He <~clded, however, I 't , would be to open a co-ordinate that he was \~urprised\ at the 1 women's college much as faculty's reaction to the 1 . Hamilton has done this fall with proposal. · 1 • . To Samuel IL Fortenbaugh, ''River Street Attracts Studt11ts , Like the Pied Piper of Hamlin Editor's Note: The following article is rewritten from an · q article that appeared in \The Times Record\ Troy, on July 29, 1968. It was written by Concordiensis staffer Bruce H~sten. It was as if the Pied Piper of Hamlin had marched straight out of the story books, combed through every avenue in the City of Troy and, summoning all its inhapitants 25 and under by • turning them on with the loudest conceivable music, Jed them straight to the area in 10 River Street which has, in the last several years, become appropriately dubbed \the strip\. What is perhaps most remarkable about the strip is that each of its establishments has a personality all its own and ' attracts a type of crowd which also has a character of its own. Superficially the strip and its who conform to the ivy league image of penny laofers for boys or long, straig]lt hair for the girls. The atmos]Jl:tere in Shaker's is sophisticated :2Itd friendly, and during the school year it is virtually impossible to find breathing space amidst all the RPI, Russell Sage and Union students. Petar's sustained fire damage not long ago and recently reopened after undergoing a facelifting. It :has managed to preserve the same inviting atmosphere, how-ever, and still attracts an older, slightly more mature copy of the type found in Shaker's. This is not surprising, actually, for the present bartender in Shaker's was formerly the very popular bartender at retar's who took many of his following with him when he made the switch. 1 J·, frequenters seem totally indistinguishable from one another, but a closer look reveals that each hangout is an entity in Although the differences between the c:lientele of these hangouts are obviously great, they are primarily socio-economic ones and there is surprisingly-little enmity among the hordes of young people who may be seen ambling down the strip on any gi:-v~n evening. The followers of o-ne establishment often invade t!te premises of another yet it .doesn't take long before they recognize its inadequacies and, like homesick children, return to their own retreats with a haughty air of superiority. Tll.cy may react to their naighbor-cQlleagues with condenceilsion, but never with maliciousness. •. . itself whose followers, and that, indeed, is what they are, bear striking resemblance to the other ,.., followers within each of these retreats. At - the Riviera one enters through a long, dingy corridor ~ and find inside a crowd of men and women in their twenties, many of them dropped out of school at an early age and most rv of whom live within walking distance of the so-called lounge. The Campus Inn is the most ·~ similar to The Riviera, though in general it looks slightly more sophisticated and accordingly .,.\\! attracts a more-adult crowd. The Question Mark features a live band every Thursday through Sunday and has of late been the most crowded of the strip's hideaways despite its com par a tiv ely-gargantuan layout. Perhaps this is because -. its followers are the-youngest of the strip's frequenters and are therefore still enchanted With the idea of being able to .~ consume alcoholic beverages legally. Most of The Question 'Mark's crowd, in fact, consists of ·~ high school students who have only recently turned 18, and therefore a careful identification card inspection is made at the ~ door. For The \Ivy\ College Crowd Shaker's Pen and Pencil is the \J et-settiest\ of the strip's To ask how a11.d why the strip could have 1netamorphosized from two relatively-insignificant grills into six modern establishments which make up the hubbub of Troy's night-life - all in just OVi;r 18 months- is to tap the surface of the entire youth problems which seems to have em~rged, not coincidentally, during those same 18 montlls. What Troy's youth finds in the strip is a. psychological outlet, a place where it can go and in a relaxing atmosphere of circular tables and reasonably-pricecl drinks find others of their own age - of their own and. of the opposite sex seeki11g a similar psychologica:l outlet. One \regular\ at Shaker's commented he really wasn't sure why he kept going there. \By now,\ he said, \it'sjust become a habit.\ ··' ·$.. establishments. Inside, the temperature is cool and the architecture; attractive. Most of its followers are college students The emergence of the strip, in any case, needs to be lauded, not lamented. Jr., from Radnor, Pa., decision on the cm~u issue is premature. Mr. Fortenhaugh, who is an attorney-at-law, said his profession hml taught him not tu make a state111cnt on the proposal before the Board discussed it as a whole. J.(e implied, however, that he supported coedu<.:a tion as he understood the proposal for Union. Henry D. Wright, a Schenectady Trustee, is \more interested in the student's reaction\ to coeducation than anything else ami, as he understands the situation so f~tr, he does not feel the students support it. \I have a fee ling Union should remain an all-male school,\ Mr. Wright said, \although I'm probably in a minority among the trustees. He suggested that Union would be a unique school if it remained fur males only and said it would thereby attract a high quality ur students. lie speculated also that Union could always experiment with coeducation at a later date, hut \once the change is made, it will be hard to switch back.\ Robert E. Murray uf Schenectady thinks the school is miving too hastily in trying to make a decision immediately aJ~d admitting womeB perhaps as early as the spring ·of 1969. He thinks too much emphasis is hcing placed on the Princeton University study and said that no statistic is so constant that it should be heavily relied on. 'The whole .picture might be different in .a few years,\ Murray added. \If we have the money to make the conversion and in view of the facu'lty's openion, I'd probably vote for it,\ said Ralph D. Semcrad of Troy. He said that to go coed was the \current vogue\ and the \contemporary thing to do.\ Two Austrian students, Otto Waldnwn of Breger11 and M ichacl J. Frey of Vienna arc presently working in lJ nion 's Department of Industrial Administration as Fulbright scholars. The idea to bring the two to Union first came about last year when Dr. Alfred L. Thimm, professor and acting chairman of Union's Department of Economics, spent his sabbatical leave in Austria. Prof. Thimm is a graduate of Technique Hochschule with a diploma in engineering. He spent a year training as an officer in the Austrian army reserve. He has worked in the Strength of Materials Laboratory of the Suil:cr Company ol Wmtcrthus, Switzerland. Frey has a dm:tura tc 111 law from the U nivcrsi ty of Vienna, and has trained a~ a rcscrvc.army officer. H,e was an assitant lecturer in economics at the University of Vienna last year. '71 Seeks Talent Auditions fur the First A n n u a I T a I c n t S h ow sponsored by the Class of '71 will be held a week from Tuesday. Students interested in participating arc asked to contact Resident Advisors or sophomore representatives in fraternities. The all·school show will be Friday of Fall weekend, Nov. 9 from 7 to 8:30p.m. some decisions are relativelY unimportant. Where vou put your engineering talent to work is not. As you contemplate one of the most important decisions of your life, we invite you to consider a career at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft Here, you will find wide-open opportunities for professional growth with a company that enjoys an enviable record of stability in the dynamic atmosphere of aerospace technology. We select our engineers and scientists carefully. Motivate them well. Give them the equipment and facilities only a leader can provide. Offer them company-paid, graduate-education opportunities. Encourage them to pus\1 into fields that have not been explored before. Keep them reaching for a little bit more responsibility than they can manage. Reward them well when they do manage it. And your decision is made easier, thanks to the wide range of talents required. Your degree can be a B.S., M.S., or Ph.D. in: MECHANICAl • AERONAUTICAL • ELECTRICAL • CHEMICAL • CIVIL • MARINE • INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING • PHYSICS • CHEMISTRY • METALLURGY • MATERIALS SCIENCE • CERAMICS • MATHEMATICS .. STATISTICS • COMPUTER SCIENCE • ENGINEERING SCIENCE • ENGINEERING MECHANICS. Consult your college placement officer-or write Mr. William L. Stoner, Engineering Department, Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, East Hartford, Connecticut 06108. Pratt & Whitney Rircraft EAST HARTFORD AND MIDDLETOWN, CONNECTICUT WEST PA~M BEACH, FLORIDA u DIVISION 01\ UNITED RRAI\T CORPORATION An Equol Opportullll)< Etnplo~tr

I; BEAT HAMILTONl Concordy Sports Spiro Who? 1- • Gridders Dump Yellow jackets, 21 • 7 by Jay Blitzman RL•Iy Ill!-' on fnothall fund~lllL'ntah and ball l'Ontrul llniun 'L·orcd an i m p r L\• \v e 2 1 - 7 v iL\ torr over Roch~'ter at 1 auver Stadiuiii this past Satwday. Comintr into the contc''l a' dl'finiiL' underdog,, tl1c (;arne! II L'fl' 111 lll'L'd Of a \OJid pcrfurmarlc:c• to give them the impctu\ fur a \Ul't:L'''ful ~ea-.on after an unimpre-.,ivc 7·6 11in over St. La wren L'e and a 1 q, 11 lo~' la<;t week -..;.~. to Kin~-. Pornt. llninn c·amt' into l·auva Stadium without defeiNV ,. 't~ndou h .I oh n Burton_ the (;arnl'l', ou ht~ndmg def~Il\IW end who 'trarn~:d hh knL'L' ag~rn't King' Point. and ,·u-,·aptain Tom Oh~r't. a ... tandout at dekn,ive tad-.k \ rt .I and\ \\a' the rt•plat'L'JI1L'nt for 'tar \\·in)!hac·k ( 'raig Carhon lml for tht• 'L'a,on agam't King' Point. !·rank l·elt' rcplared Burton at l'nd and ... uphomorc I om Duffy wa' 'tartcd at left t~ckle. lhe (;arne! dJmL' to e'tablish therr running attack. due to the diminished effc,·t ivene\ of the pas' attat·k rc,ulting from Carlson's ab,en,·e and the consequent double coverage uf 'Ph t .:nd Rich Swan. Cual'i1 Hood relied on an offensive line which had not -.huwn real con,htcncy against a yellowjacket squad whkh fca tured a strong defeme against the rush, a' evidenced in tlll'i r 7-6 lo\ to William~. Union. on occa,ion. reverted to a straight T. with a third running Larry Sykes rcplaci ng Jacobs. Quarterb~,·k Ken Pearce. who had thrown 7 3 acriab agaimt St. Lawrence and Kinp Point put the ball in the air only IS times, completing five. The pattern of the game was apparent from the opening kickoff. Rodlc,ter opened defensively in a 4-4·3. 1\ ith the linebaL·kers playing tight on obviom running situations to fonn a gap eight. jamming the middle while e\JHl;;mg the ou t,idc Pearce immedrately capital11ed on thb by calling quarterback option~ to the wide side of the field which were designed to neate running room for the Garnet', speedy Jerry Ostrander. i\gainst Roche~ter, he ..:arried the ball fifteen times for )[)5 yards. llnion w;p;tcd no time in applying pre,sure. Follol\ing a 16 y;ud Ostrander sprint behind left guard Doug \lclc whkh put the ball at the vi,itor·, 4 7. the Y dlowjacket de feme led hy Bob ( 'Iarke held and forced a punt. Ron \kAvoy·, kick \1\,a' fumbled by Rodte,ter', Bob Ward and ,·oven:d h} Pup Gould for the Gamet on the Rodle,ter tlmty. A .;ubsequcnt field goal atiL'mpt from the• fifty by Jim Sabella w:.r' 'hort.lt wa' ,j, minute' into the fir'>t period before Roche,ter quarterback Bob Young got hi' hand' on the hall. The nearlr impregnable Garnet defense led by Duffy. \1onahan, and lint•backer' \llcAvoy. Don dc\lk'hele, and ,af.:ty Paul Ramsey and defensive back Steve Cic~inski forced Roche~ter to give the hall right back. With two minutes left in thL' fir,! period. Union made its most glaring error of the afternoon. I· rom the Union 23. in an obvious passing situation PearcL' luok.:d for Swan. Paul Singer, who did a commendable job on the star receiver although often helped by a linebat·ker dropping off and the safety on deep patterns, cut inside of Swan as he fell and pkked off the pass for an unobstructed 23 yard run to the end zone. The conversion made it 7-0. but Union did not lose its momentum. A Pearce to Jacobs aerial coupled with a piling on penalty provided the Gamet with a first down at Rochester f arty. Pearce narrowly missed the homenm on a long pass for Swan. However, McAvoy's punt another Bob Ward fumble which was recovered by Mele provided a first and goal for two. It v. as only the second of five Rochester fumble\; four were wvcred by Union. With one minute left in the second quarter senior fulloack Joe James j<unmed into the end zone from the one, and Sabella's placement knotted the score at 7·7. The breaks were now even. and the Garnet offense came to life, as defensive tackle Rit GalluL·d. Felts. and Monahan forced Rochester to punt. Starting from his own 32 Pearce directed a 68 yard march with Green Bay precision. The 13 play drive culminated in the end zone on Ostrander's clever run around the left side on the option play. Pearce Senior fullback Joe James plunges over from the one-yard line for the first of three Garnet touchdowns in an impressive 21-7 triumph over Rochester Saturday. sustained the drive via a pass interferenc-e call involving Jacobs, two completions to Ostrander, and a dutch third down throw to Swan on the Rochester 34. James moved the ball to the 19 on hard inside running and fine blocking by tackles Paul Beadle an<! Bill Dwyer and guards Viele and 1-d Arnold and centers Bill Birns and Doug Werth. After Union's success with wide runs Rochester began to spread, whereupon the Garnet's hit inside on power plays and traps featuring the running of James ( 20 carries for 60 yards) and Larry Sykes who picked up 63 yards on 13 carries. With little time left in the first half, the Yellowjackets deepest penetration had been to the Union forty three. Behind the short passes of Bob Young the Yellowjackcts pk:ked up a first down at Union's43, but on a third down play from there Monahan's strong pass rush forced a hurried screen pass intended for Dave Lyons to fall incomplete. On fourth down Rochester's Richard Wolfe was back to punt and it appeared thaI the Garnet were in no trouble. llmvever, Russ C iccotti narrowly m.isscd blocking the kick while blocking the punter. Cin:oti played a strong game throughout and kept Young off balance with his blitzes. The penalty was the ~econd by the Garnet which kept Roche~ter moving; the first was an offside penalty which provided Rochester an Harriers Fall, Frosh Romp by Paul Forbes The 't ring 'till continues for the llnion varsity cross-L·ountry team. Saturday the Harriers were defeated by a strong Clarkson team 24-3.2. The losing string:. which starts four years ago, still progresses. On the 1vhole, the sho·wing: was good for the Garnet in their first meet against the more e·q1erienced Clarkson squad. Myron Fribush ran a strong second witl1 Joe Burgess following in the fourth spot. Dick Cooperwasser, John Braham, and Mario Fischetti rounded out the scoring in si\ th. ninth and tenth places nspcctively. The injured l'erry McManus had to drop aut of the race which hurt the chances greatly. The team must close the gap between third and fourth men in order to prove effectively enough to break the skein. The Gamet's next start is today at ll obart. Frosh Wins The frush cross-country season >tarted on a successful note yesterday with a convinl'ing Victory over LaSallette. 17-41. The highlight of the ra<:e was a new course record turned in by Bryant Moeckel in 20:00. 2. Finishing second was Dave Rice of Union who equaled the old course record. Third and fourth for llnion were Paul Forbes and Tom Klinko k. the former running half the race with only one shoe. KelthJamba finished up the scoring for the Gamet. In all Union placed five of the first si:\ men. Coach Coleman termed the victory \impressive\. The next start for the frosh is tQday at Hobart w.[th a home meet toinorrow with Williston. unearned first down on their own 48. The third penalty in the Yellowjacket drive occured on a post to U. of R.'s Jack Ha~t. who was bumped by Ciesinski on the Union 13. From there Lyons moved the ball to the seven on a sweep, but on second down the dogging Ciccoti knocked down a Young pass. On the clutch third down Young hit halfback Brian Miga on a flare for a first and goal on the three. Young immediately tried to go .up top for a score but his pass was incomplete. On second down the defensive line would not yield for Lyons, and on third down Ciesinski almost broke the game wide open with a near interception which was ruled as a completion to Hart on the Union five. On fourth and goal with Lyons taking a pitchout from Young and heading for the right comer it appeared as if the Yellowjackets had a score, by Paul Ramsey displaying extreme quickness shot the gap and made a viscous tackle on Lyons at the seven. From there Pearce ran out Soccer: Frosh by Stu Moss A goal with less than 2 minutes remammg in regulation time gave Umon's freshmen soccer team a come-from-behind 2-2 tie with New Paltz Saturday afternoon. The game was a rough, aggresive one marred by poor officiating. Art Fraser, with an assist from Pireer Roumain. gave the Garnet a 1-0 lead at 17:51 of the first period. A goal at 5:24 in the next period sent New Paltz into a 1-1 tie at the half. A controversial hands ball in the penalty area and a successful penalty kick gave New Paltz the lead at 4:44 of the third period. The score remained 2-1 until Myles Richard, assisted by Larry Mullman, put in the tying goal late in the fourth period. -~---------------------, l For All Your Paint ! I and Hardware Needs 1 I & Cleaning Supplies ! i See Us ! I t I CAPITOL PAINT & I ! HARDWARE CO. l I I l 730 STATE ST. I : Phone FR 4-4123 ! t I ~---------------------~ the clock, picking up a first down on quarterback sneaks, displaying the jump off the ball the Union line was gaining. The second half featured Rochester's attempt to get back in the game, as Young hit for a good percentage, although most of .them were of the short variety. The only real scoring opportunities were those created by Union; one early .in the third period as Monahan dumped Young and Duffy covered his fumble. This set up a Sabella field goal attempts from thirty which was wide. Despite the ball control exercised by Union, the contest was still in doubt until Ciesinski's f()urth interception of the year with eight minutes to play in the collctest. Following a clipping infraction the ball was marked at the Rochester forty-two. Sykes carried twice to the twenty five, and on a third and five he exploded -through a huge hole and accelerated through the secondary, to make the final 21-7. DralN Two five minute overtime periods did not change the score and the game was declared a tie. Saturday's game was marked by frne passing and another good game in the net by Dave Block. The squ2d is looking better each game as the hooters are gammg experi:ence playing with each other. There is more talk between the players and less bunching on the ball. The halfbacks played their best ball of the season as they were helped by Howard Wlleeler who worked hi!> way into a starting position. Their next foe is Williston tomorrow. Williston is a traditionally strong team, but it is in the midst of a two-game losing streak. !he Gamet hopes to catch them when they are down. Game time is 2:30 at Gads Field. MIDTOWN BARBER SHOP All Haircuts don€: by Appoint- ment from Tues. rhru Fri. Ap- poinrments not necessary Sat. 51 5 UNION ST. 377:4910 Vinitk~ Men's Shop Specialists in Collegiate Wear 514 State Street at Lafayette Park & Shop Free Perking Hartford Easy for 3-1 Boaters; To Face Powerful Middlebury Sat .. by Mike Reger The Union varsity soccer team c:-. tended ib season record to three wins against a single loss by taking a 3-0 decision at the University of Hartford Saturday. Senior Jim Wilson opened the scoring for the Garnet with an unassisted goal. his fourth of the season, during the first period. Sophomore Bill Porter added the second tallcy in the second period for a 2-0 !cud at the half. It was Porter's first goal of the season, as he was assisted by soph Fury Scialdone. Another sophomore, Chris Swan, wrapped up the scoring in the fourth period, as he kicked home his first of the year, assisted by Porter. In addition, Coach Gary Brown singled out senior left fullback Walt Hutton for his outstanding pcrfonnance on defense. Hartford is probably the weakest squad on the Garnet schedule, and Coach Brown was disappointed only that he would not go to his bench a~ eai!y as he would have liked. Th~' Hawks arc presently Q-6 for the s~ason. They surprised the Garnet 4-2 last year to break a 17-game losing streak. ' In all. the Dutchmen outshot Hartford 3804 in the contest, which was never in doubt. A number of Garnet scoring oppoFtunities failed as the ball bounced off the goalpost or was battt:d away by the Hawk goalie in despera-tion attempts. 1 he next match for the Garnet will be on Saturday, when the squad travels to Middlebury. Always tough, Middlebury has the added advantage of having played: together all summer during a tour of Europe. Despite this, the Panthers now stand at 1-3, having beaten only Albany State, while falling to Springfield, Williams, and Dartmouth. Vol. 9 '72 Falls, 28-13 by Walt Spencer Th c freshman football team showed moments of brilliance in dropping a 28-13 decision to Trinity on Alexander Field Friday. The game was the season opener for both teams. The hosts received the opening kickoff and proceeded to drive 79 yards on 16 plays for the score. The big play of the drive was a 35 yard pass from quarterback Bob Schiller to wing back Larry Bloom. Schiller appeared to be trapped in his own backfield but eluding his pursuers, he rolled to the right sideline and unloaded. Bloom jumped high in the air to spear the pigskin. Bill Corcoran accounted for 36 yards on eight carries in the drive while Rich Jasczak ran for 15 yards on three carries, the last being a six yard gain for the score. Barry Gross added the extra point. Trinity Scores Trinity took control of the game with three second quarter touchdowns by halfback Tom Binningham. Binningham scored all three times on the same play, a modified Green Bay Packer sweep. Quentin Keith, a proficient soccer style kicker, added the extra point. The Gamet frosh threatened to score in the third quarter when they drove 61 yards to the Trinity nine. They lost the ball on downs, however, when the Hartford defense contained several running plays. On the next series of downs, the THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PlANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutrneats from all over the world. 406 STATE ST. Dutchmen were successful as Jim Niver, the tight end, grabbed a 14 yeard Schiller pass in the end zone. The score came at 12:46 remaining of the fourth qu!J.fter. An attempt for a two point conversion failed. With 4:53 left in the fmal period Birmingham iced the game with another touchdown. Keith again converted. Schiller completed 13 of 30 passes for 150 yards_ Jasczak gained 81 yards on 23 carries while Corcoran ran for 60 yards in 16 tries. Ken Cyboron played inspired defense. The middle linebacker had 17 tackles, six of which were unassisted. Garry Drummond, playing defensive end, added seven tackles. Jay Keller was outstanding in limited service as Coach Bruce Allison tried to protect his recent shoulder injury. Pete Keller, a defensive safety little more than a quarter before in tense back pain forced him out of the game. Bob Higgins, a linebacker,. ripped ligaments in his ankle and spent the weekend on crutches. Many other players had muscle bruises but all of those were expected to be healed when the team traveled to Geneva Friday to face the Hobart frosh. HOCKEY Au Ex1 \0 ~ sort percer pre em head_ •• self-fa Th in th~ Wednc Re noveli exper era, a and a: ··c The Union Hockey Club will hold ~ a meeting tonight at 7:30 in the Psi l ' impre than war instru for 1 gener Upsilon fraternity house, next to Memorial Chapel on South Lane. All . interested students, e~pecially• .~-.Jc 1 t'> He Thw: ex pre frusti draftc f<O<hmoo, \\lmitod to •<tond. ~ ' ( Ai CERCONE'S ATLANTIC STATION Finest Gasoline In Schenectady Guaranteed Service 711 NOTT ST. 377-9866 . l f . 'I I I into he at .~ s w <v Prof. and' reorg , , 1 ,J,'J<; to tl \' Tue~ meet of in ., . ·~ PI push Engl shap• ., ~ a ffi( depa meet ;. >II( soph no q main belie •l. • T •;.. one • Stud Park Shit Stud then ..9'\'~~~ AT 428' STATE STREET II Mall scho con~ a gc. part govt: bee< con J£WELEF19 ~---------------------P-H_O_N_E_F_R __ 4--0-18-3~~~J

S· I \A Causa Persa Parole Assai\ • Ed ito rials Page 2 y Sat. Founded at ,Union College 1877 schedule, and tppointed only to his bench a~ 1ve liked. Th~' D-6 for the the Gai:net 4-2 17-game losin~ hmcn outshot contest, which A number of mities failed as he goalpost or w Hawk goalie s. \or the Garnet 1hen the squad Always tough, lded advantage her all summer e. Despite this, i at 1-3, having State, while Williams, and !· ·13 essful as Jim grabbed a 14 , the end zone. ::46 remaining ~n attempt for failed. ,' Vol. 98 No. 6 he final period ~ game with Speaking in Convocation Wednesday Keith again l3 of 30 passes ak gained 81 vhile Corcoran 16 tries. Ken Jired defense. ker had 17 ·ere unassisted. ying defensive les. Jay Keller tited service as ried to protect ITy. Author-Pundit John Dos Passos ·- Explains Obiective Observation :fensive safety 1uarter before :ed him out of ;, a linebacker,. his ankle and ;rutches. Many de bruises but t pecte d to be m traveled to ;e the Hobart EY Club will hold 7:30 in the Psi ouse, next to ou th Lane. All \Observing Objectively demands a ~ sort of virginity of the perceptions ... A man has to clear all preconceived notions out of his head ... The result is a happy ·~ self-forgetfulness.\ Thus spoke writer John Dos Passos in the year's second convocation last Wednesday night. ~~.,· ~· Reminiscing about his own life as a fi novelist, Dos Passos told of his I experiences during the World War I / :····I era, and how his writing was enhanced and affected. \Driving .an ambulance .. ,tends to impress you mo~e with the wreckage ~ than with the glory of warfare. Those war years in Europe were an instructive period for me as they were } . ~. for many other Americans of my generation.\ He described his World War I novel, ts, especially' .~-»)'It•) o attend. ': Three Soldiers as \ ... an attempt to express the resentments and frustrations of the natural born civilian drafted into the army.\ I ( ' E'S After the armistice, Dos Passos got into the Sorbone Detachment where he attended college and began to write his first novel. \Paris in 1919. It's hard to imagine the feelings of savage joy and bitter hatred we felt during that spring. Paris in those years really was the capital of Europe.\ The art---Cubism, Modigliani, Picasso---and the music---Poulenc, Milhaud, Stravinski---of Paris seemed to spur him on. \I came nack to America. New York was the first thing that struck me. It was marvelous. It was hideous. It had to be described.\ Then he spoke of his life in general: \Growing old is partly a process of outgrowing illusions. A man discovers that he can't explain to himself just how he acquired some of his mist cherished and passionately held conv1ctwns. Impacted illusions crumble very gradually in the light of reason.\ Dos Passos summed up his feelings by saying: \To see clearly and to express clearly what he sees is still the writer's aim, but with all the narrative skill in the world, how hard it is to attain.\ SCHENECTADY, N.Y., OCTOBER 18, 1968 PRH:E TWENTY CENTS Students To Have Voice On Panels Martin Says Union Pioneer In Field by Steve Levy \.J approve of the idea and think there is more to be gained by intergrating committees than by having parallel committees,\ commented President Martin who is presently recc1vmg re.ports from various faculty committees conceming the ,addition of student members to their ranks. Those committees so far reporting are Admissions, Library, Campus Development, Honors, and Academic Standing and have all approved of adding students members. \So far it is clear that students will have both a voice and a vote,\ commented the President, however, he stressed that this decision will be up to each committee since their nature is not identical. In the case of the Committee on Academic Standing, students will participate in matters of policy making, but, not in the reviewing of individual cases. The only committees that the President questions students serving on are the Faculty Benefits Committee, and the Faculty Promotion, Salary, Committee Envisions 10o/o Blacks by Jeff Browne The recently-expanded student-faculty committee on admissions Tuesday concluded a two-hour meeting with visions of admitting as many as 42 disadvantaged Black students to the Class of '73. Chaired by Edward Craig, Professor of electrical engineering, the 14-man committee set a goal of 10 percent disadvantaged Blacks for '73. The group was represented for the first time by students, four of them, and met for the first time in recent years this early in the academic year. After the decision concerning the admission of Black students, the committee voted against limiting the admissions personnel with set requirements of 2 Y2 years of mathematics and cut off points on college board scores. One committee member brought up the possibility of resigning from the College Board, but Professor Craig said it was decided merely to deemphasize the scores. Professor Craig said this was the first committee meeting he could recall in his four years on the committee \when it met for two hours just to discuss policy.\ He said the committee normally meets for the first time in December to discuss the admission of candidates for early decision. and Tenme Cornmittee. The P.rcsident noted that student participation on faculty committees is not a common thing on college campuses, with the exception of students on Discipline Committees. Union has for several years had students on its Discipline Committee and last psring students joined in such ad hoc faculty committees as those dealing with urugs, a college center, the Middle States Evaluation, and Comprehensive Education. No method for selecting students to serve on these committees exists and this year appointments will be made by the President who is seeking suggestions from the faculty committees and from other sources. The president will then consult the deans and student leaders in making this choice. President Mart in cited the possibility in the future of having the students create a pool of students to serve on these committees and of letting the committees choose its members from this pool. Appointment to the committees will be for a period of one year, the same amount of time that a faculty member serves, and will be spread throughout the classes. Concerning appointment of freshmen the President said he didn't object, but stated that it is hard for the faculty to know them at first and that appointments for the following year in the future will be made in the Spring. Aside from the main topic of the admission of Black students, Professor Craig said the group also discussed the roles of college board scores, other high school requirements in admissions. Professor Craig said he has \already heard repercussions from the administration\ concerning the admission of disadvantaged Blacks which he said would cost $90,000 next year. Faculty Debates Closed Door The chairman said members of the Interfraternity Council had already expressed a desire that the IFC help in the raising of funds. \If you want to do something badly enough,\ he said, \you can do it.\ Professor Craig confessed: \I'm not really in the financial know, and in all honesty we may not be able to achieve the goal.\ \But you've got to set your goals high,\ he added. by Alan Klein The faculty met in general session Thursday to approve routine budget and debate whether a reporter from Concordiensis should be allowed to cover future faculty meetings. meeting in an academic community whose very basis is free-thinking and open-minded communication is an anachronism. We can only assume that the motives of the faculty are above question. If this assumption is true, then there is no reason for closed meetings. If, oa the other hand, we ' .·;.,..,.,, •... ~. .. . . ___..,.,., ··~ \ .. ·~<;~~ ' J' \~~.'-~) .·. };., .\'·····:·.· . . · .. 1· fl' ~~!!:' ,>illi! .. • J . >':7'·~ JIIJ; ' .,,.., ~ .~~ ' ' ~· rATION f;ne In :Jdy t • L ,i .~Sophomores Audit Variety The debate was sparked by a note Thursday from D. Peter Drotman, 'Editor of Concordienses to Pmf. Charles W. Huntley, Secretary of the College requesting that a reporter for the paper be allowed to cover Thursday's meeting. When the reporter called Huntley to determine if permission had been grated, he was told that only President Martin collld grant such permission and that he would be unlikely to grant it on suclt short notice. Coneordiensis did not cover the meeting \but as in the past interviewed Prof. Huntley after it. He revealed that there had been a short discussion of the issue of coverage, with some members favoring continued closed meeting and some favoring completely open meetings. ~ .,.. < ,.~ 1ervice With personalities ranging from ' ' ·· ·...., Prof. Michael Shinagel to AI Ziegler and with the discussion going from the reorganization of student government , . 1 ~.'}!.., to the abolition of the social rules, 377-9866 Tuesday night's sophomore class meeting provided an extensive survey of important issues facing the college. .,..., Prepared to compete in doing push-ups to show that a \sedentary\ English professor could still be in shape, Shinagel was disappointed that ~ a member of the physical education department was not present at the meeting. He told the group of 75 ~ sophomores and freshmen that he had no quarrel with the philosophy of the maintenance program, but that he believed it did not serve its ends. The physical education system was one of the issues discussed as Dean of ·• Students Edward Malloy, Prof. Ruth It Parker, Neal Gordon, Ziegler, and Shinagel, Addressed the group. Student activism was the general theme during the evening. In his opening statement Dean Malloy said he \believes in the small school and wants to maintain the small college spirit at Union.\ This includes ,... ..t:, a good student-faculty exchange and participation of students in college government. More committees should 4·0 183 j I) Itt; become \college and not just faculty _ commi ttee_s.\ Malloy expressed STREET disappointment in the lack of returns on the co-ed questionnaire. Prof. Shinagel emphasized that students must be the ones to raise and discuss the questions on maintenance: Is the program too long? Does it offer enough opportunity to get practice in a sport? Should a student with a 3.67 index who fails gym be kept off the Dean's list or should he be prevented from graduation if his physical education requirements are not fulfilled? Should returning veterans be forced to take gym? Shinagel said that the Faculty Council took up the maintenance issue last week but voted to table action until Wilford Ketz, chairman of the department~ returns in January. AI Ziegler, speaking on the Community, said that \students have power and it must be recognized.\ The convention to be held soon will be a structure for gathering people togather. The Community is interested in a cultural revolution where \the medium is the message.\ Ziegler attacked the present social rules which \prohibit fornication in the dorms.\ He advocated home rule of the dorms where each section would establish its own social rules. \Students should be the people deciding how their lives should be run.\ Neal Gordon said that students must first decide if they want rules \liberal in comparison with other schools.\ He noted that a drive to eliminate social rules would conflict with the co-education issue since there are very few schools with no restrictions on women. Gordon said that Student Council will be taking a poll on changing the social rules. He believes, however, that this issue will be postposed in favor of work on the reorganization of student government and the implementation of an honor code. Miss Parker was charged with presenting the \woman's point of view on co-education,\ something which she believes does not really exist. She said \there is a place for one sex schools but Union can't afford to be that kind of school.\ She did not believe that her department would be greatly affected by women in the classroom because more men than women usually take philosophy. Miss Parker stated that entering women should be treated as equals with no discrimination parietal rules. Dean Malloy concurred with this opinion in his closing remarks. The Dean of Students also noted that there must be concern for the minority position on any issue involving change. Editor Drotman commented Thursday night: \The closed do<lr Professor C William Huntley have assumed falsely, then we must closely examine the motivating factors of our own faculty; a prospect I find quite disheartening.\ Interfraternity Council Discusses Funds For Disadv.antaged N ef}roes Union's Interfraternity Council Tuesday discussed plans of raising money to help in the recruitment and tuition of disadvantaged Black students at Union. Mark Goldstein, a member of the committee on admissions, proposed that the 1 FC tal(e a leadership role in the admission of Negroes to the Class of '73 and said the committee is considering as many as ten percent of the class to be disadvantaged Black students from this area. He suggested to the other representatives at the meeting in Ph.y Delta Theta that the organization help raise money to help pay for recruitment and tuition for disadvantaged BlacRs. The Council agreed to look into fund raising id.eas. President Dan Mead said he would meet with Admissions Director Jonathan Pearson and members of tlte committee and report to IFC in a week. In other business, the council discussed the problem of police protection O!l party weekends here and the officers said they would contact Dean Edward Malloy for more protection of property during Homecoming, A proposal was made that rushing chairmen submit lists of rushees during the second week of November to the IFC Judicial Board so the Board could publish a list of Freshmen not being rushed by any fraternities. The motion was tabled till the next meeting.

I. Pubil·shed Tuesday a,pd Fr1day dur- ing th .. school 1 ear by the Student Body of UmonCollege. SchenE'ctady, N.Y. National Advert1s1ng Repr-e- sent attve: Nat1onal Educ at 1on .al Advert1smg Serv1ce, Inc., Colle15e Publishers R epresentat 1ve, 360 Lexington Avenue. N. Y, C. Ed11.or1ai Off1ce, Old Gym, Union College, Publ1cat10n Office, Whlle· hurst Pr1nt1ng Ill Binding Co., Inc .. 415·418 F1fth A.ve .. Troy. 235-4450., • Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mall Matter. Subscr1pt1on 21>¢ a copy; $6 a year delivered anywhere in the United State·s. SENIOR BOARD D. Peter Drotman '69 .......... 346·8614 ..........•. Co-Editor in Chief Jeffrey C. Brewne '6 9 ......... 346-997 3 .......... _. Co-Editor in Chief Richard Lewis '70 ............. 346-1932 ............• Business Manager ' ' .For enough good men to do nothing.\ Co-education is one of the most important issues which has ever faced Union in the 1 73-year history of the college. Indeed, co-education would significantly alter that history. Nevertheless, student response to a poll on the issue has been, to say the least, sparse. Less than 35% of Union's students have responded thus far. It has come to our attention that sev:eral students are presently circulating a petition which, in effect, states the editorial position taken by Concordiensis in its first regular issue of this year. This petition, which will eventually be sent to the Board of Trustees, also expresses the feeling that Professor Niemeyer should be invited to the Board's meeting, that the poll (as the retums now stancl.' is an inaccurate and inadequate sampling and that the circumstances surrounding the distribution of the poll are largely ineffective. Concordienses concurs with these feelings and wishes the students who have drafted the petition luck in reaching their stated goal of 1,000 signatures. But, we are convinced that student opinion on this issue will carry weight only in proportion to the percentage of response to the official poll. It is not enough to sign names to a petition or to discuss the situation in the donns, especially when the administration is actively seeking the voice of th.e students. Whether you favor co-education, as we do, oppose it, or don't care about it, you should be heard. The way to be heard is to pick up a questionnaire in the English Department or in Room 9 of the Administration Building. It is well worth the walk. Vox Populi? The Student Council, Monciay evening, had a fierce debate. They very simply could not decide whether to take a stand on the co-ed issue. No, not which side to take; but whether to take a stand at all. The argument that was foremost in the mind of the duly elected representatives was: what W{}Uld happen if the Council voted one way and the student poll voted the other? Concordiensis firmly believes that this self-admitted lack of representation and a general sense of alienation has been the hallmark of the Student Council for too long. Last year, Representative Alan Ziegler resigned because the Council refused to take any stand on the Vietnam issue. The next week the SC did a veritable about-face; and, although they did nDt condemn the war, they did endorse a student strike that seemed to do so. In an analogous situation earlier this week the Council, in a single meeting defeated a motion which advocated taking a stand on co-ed and passed a motion favoring the co-ed plan. Concordiensis, while hailing the latter action, deplores the former. As a footnote, we might add that both actions were decided by ahnost the same margin ( 15-2). \A foolish inconsistency,\ may be according to Emerson, \the hobgoblin of little minds;\ hut the inconsistencies we find in the Union College Student Council are very nearly beyond description, not to mention belief. We realize the impracticality involved in demanding the resignation of all the members of the Council; and therefore shun this plan in favor of advocating the body's immediate dissolution. This is not such an outlandish move as might be inferred. Concordiensis has become aware of several plans for the restructuring of student gover:nment and shall publish these as soon as their details are available. 1n general, we favo.r representation by living units, as opposed to the present an.d virtually weighted random system of representation by class. Not only would communication between the representatives and his constit11ency become more frequent and meaningful, but also referenda and elections would be conducted on a basis of fulleF participation (a letter on this subject appears today). Along with the Student Council, the U.I.C. and the I.F.C. would similarly be disbanded inasmuch as their decisions that effect the entire community are usually duplicate .and often triplicate functions of the Student Council. We do, however, anticipate a continued need for the vatious social and purchasing services performed by these otherwise useless organizations. Their existance might continue as standing committees of the new and enlarged council. The plans for the government reorganizati{}n that we have thus far discovered hold quite diverse origins. Most are the conceptions of individual students or groups of students, but one is the product of a committee made up of sevetal student body leaders and faculty members. (Concordiensis weloomes new and refreshing ideas from all quarters, but the quasi-official nature of the committee report, to be is:;ued next week, smacks of the kind of closed door policy that we have never tolerated. No matter how high the quality of the committee recommendation may be, there is no excuse for the student body, the very entity the committee is purpoting to represent, not to be kept informed of the upheavals in its own government. This week a petition of the Student Body President to be allowed td sit in on the meeting of the Trustees at which the co-ed issue will be decided was denied. There can be small wonder at this action. What would be the rational for the Trustees allowing students to sit in on their me'etings while student leaders deny the same rigl1t to their collegues? <,:oncordiensis sees no rational basis for either action. We sincerely hope that a new council is forthcoming; and further that the new body will deal with all branches of the College Community in an open, free ~tnd creative manner. Letters to Compendium October 14, 1968 'To The Editor: What is a good yearbook? Is it a comprehensive record of life at a college or is it .a sensitive artistic creation'? The ideal answer should be both. However, the elite members of the yearbook .staff maintain that one goal necessarily precludes the other. If this is indeed true, then what course should be take a? A quick glance through Gamet '68 reveals that the latter course has been chosen. It is truly a w0rk of art. Never before have so many high €J.Uality photographs appeared· in a Union yearbook. Doubtless great pains and tremendous sums of money went into its preparation. The superb print quality attests to the technical proficiency and sensitivity of the staff photographers. Nevertheless, Garnet '68 is a failure as a college yearbook. By avoiding such photographic cliches as the faculty, athletic teams, class governing boards, laboratory candids and other familiar sights on campus, the Garnet editors decided to omit a major part of college life. In their artistic zeal they were blind to the future. Consider which will be more valuable in twenty years from now: A photograph of a butcher shop ia the slums of Schenectady or a panorama of the college you attended for four years of your life? A photograph of dandelion fuzz or a photograph of the soccer team you led to victory? The list is endless. The sad fact is that the Ecl.itor-in-Chief and the Photography Editor of the yearbook have not listened seriously to dissenting opinions of other members of the staff. In their \expert\ judgement, the dissenters are backward and have little knowledge of the fine art of yearbook making. Unless some strong student criticism is directed to the appropriate parties involved, we will continue to get portfolios of selected artwork instead of yearbooks truly representative of Union College. MarkS. Lichtenstein '70 David M. Zapata '70 Marie S. Kopins '70 Paul G. Farnham '70 'Election Bored To The Editor: We of the Union College Elections Commission are aware of several rumors concerning the efficiency of the Spring elections. We feel these misgivings are not without cause. And thus we sugges,t a reevaluation of the Union College election procedure as a first step towarcl. erracl.icating any present shortcomings. We recognize that there are two basic approaches to election procedure at a college campus such as ours: ( 1) either the votiag is taken directly to the Student Body, or (2) the Student Body goes to a central polling place to vote. In each case, considerable problems arise. We have, for years, followed the first procedure for Union's elections. We thought it best to go to the voter as often as possible in an effort to make it conveaient for him to vote. Yet percentages· of only 53-64% of the Student Body voting, were very disappoiNting returns, showing to us a definite lack of concern and responsibility for elections on the part of the electorate. But the greatest problem of this procedure for conducting elections is a requirement of manpower. A responsible commission of some forty people is needed to efficiently and flawlessly circulate more than 1400 ballots to the campus. And this proved to be the \thorn\ this Spring. Of over forty letters sent to Fraternity Presidents and Resident Advisors, asking that they appoint an interested and responsible person of their house or living unit to our commission, some sixty or more names were submitted. Contacting these and other VROOMAN'S Beer - Groceries Cold Cuts - Pastries Magazines 200 NOTT TERRACE FR 7-9834 AlUMNI THE 1968 GARNET WILL BE ON SALE SATURDAY AT THE BOOKSTORE AND IN HALE HOUSE LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian· American Food 1125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady 01 6--97# Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar the Editor ' It' volunteers for elections work produced no more than a handful of those actually willing to put in a few minutes in on election days for vote monitoring a.t:Id tallyin,g. Thus a lack of personnel scut tied our attempts to reach every dormitory floor for voting. We were forced to compromise dormitory voting to ll central polling place in eacll donn. Fraternities were responsible for monitoring election ph.ase held in their houses - not too much to ask. for, we believe. Y:et with the exception of a few distinguished houses, fraternities did not undertake this job and privilege with the alacrity and respect we felt was warranted. In a last-ditch effort to gain some manpower, the Elections Commission sought help from the Student Council Representatives. The resul tillg turn-out was, in our eyes, a minimal response. Thus, we have just .presented to you, the electorate, a rather accurate description ·of the election process this Spring. The elections were held; the winning candidates received a majority (or ·in the case of Student Council Representatives - a plurality), of the votes cast; and over 50$ of the electorate vote in each case. This seems to be the \status quo\ for elections at Union. Ye t t h e E 1 e c t i o n s Commission is not satisfied with the current ways and means of elections at Union. And thus we propose the following: that Union College change its election policies to the second \basic procedure\ ; that of conducting elections at a central polling place - probably the library - incorporating the use of city voting machines in our elections. This will accomplish two things: (1) It will tSltally eliminate any sense or degree of \'honor\ (that thing we adhere to here called \the honor system\) in the elections procedure and thus wipe out any voting irr~gularities, distr.ibution inefficiency and/ or manpower problems that presently may or may not ~xist, arrd (2) It will demand that students muster enough individual responsibility to tear themselves away from the television set and walk to the polling place to vote. No doubt, we are risking electing our representatives and officers by only a 20\30% showing of the ectorate in an election, but this is a chance we should be prepared t0 take. Stev 0 seminal ·sum me prograr I t memb( ins ti unequi pursuit undist< past. ~ which chief iastitu the a' that i~ accessi To In dosing., we of the Elections Commission cannot thank enough those individuals who did put forth their time and energy to \get us tluough the Spring.\ We also .extend our thanks to the Student Activities Office and its secretary, WRUC, and Concordiensis for their help ·· in the various phases of elections. And we can only say that elections will continue to be • \ how 1 what they are now until the j' .. ' student electorate takes enough •' interest in elections to raise the 1 • 1 .. level of participation in both voting and vote preparation. We write this letter not as defense of, nor condemnation of the Spring elections, only as a ' presentation of the existing facts concerning elections at Union. We include our own suggestive criticism, and welcome anyone else's. The franchise privilege is the mainstay of a democratic campus and we surely hope that it will never again in the future be overlooked. 'Thank you. Jeffrey R. Stoll Co-Chairman Union College Elections Commission conve) people docile paras buffoc what < two b comm Ne: Fo1 Comrr them Unite volum Ameri 1948) single 'il hirnsel AI •• \sins < in wl \stan< Georg Bear< prese inferi< specie speak Hand-Loomed Donegal T-weed Sport Coating From Ireland In Donegal, Ireland, they pamper their sheep and hand-loom their precious virgin wool in thatched cottages. These gentle, unhurried customs are reflected in this hand-loomed Donegal jacket In mellow mist colorings. $60. Deans gate\ ' \ Dall's Men's Shop 1599 UPPER UNION STREET ; • ' ~ (a;. ..... ~. Vol. Tl. ;}. .~ F ani i' · ~ pers .. ' . ' .... •• lean is \ Jud~ igiH diSCI and ~ the' to t bei1 hist~ ~ kno of ~ abo1 tt invc •• reas wor the to s ) the Lin Sch Cit Vie Cm 29t citi the anc fac it Co1

will t~tally or degree of we adhere 'the honor e elections out any distr.ibution manpower ntly may or (2) It will muster sponsibility away from walk to the No doubt, lecting our officers by of the but this should be of the cannot individuals time and tluough the .extend our nt Activities WRUC, · ... ··NegrQ ·. Hist<lr)'.. ..• SpQflighll.lP A EllelqK Attey·· •·•·••• . . \. . . . . . ····-:- . . . ::- ... \· . . -. . : ' It' by Steven C()le Steven A. Cole, '71 taught a 0 seminar in Black :History last summer in the Upward Bound .program at Union.--Ed. It is IllY opnuon that members o.f an educational institution must be unequivocally committed to a pursuit of accutate information, undistorted by errors of the past. True intellectual growth, which one can assume is the chief goal of any educational institution, is predicated upon the availability of knowledge that is valid, authoritative, and accessible. To a large exten.t, one can see • or- how American historians have running through the works of the still authoritative description of what slavery was and of what j.t meant to be a slave by the late Ulrich Bonnell Phillips. Along the same lines, we can point to such scholars as Tillinghaust, Reuther, Mecklin, and Park who proceed to expound what Melville Herskovits in his The Myth of the Negro Past (New York: Harper, 1941) calls \.myths\. The notion of \myths\ is very helpful in a discussion of the extant conditions of the Black man in America. A few of the \Myths\ that Herskovits toys around with include wha-t I consider the old \standards\: he calls the \good and the bad\. Other books of Franklin's include The Militant South (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1956) and The Emancipation Proclamation (Garden City, New York: Doubleday, 1963). In the former, while primarily concerned with the periods 1800-1861, the author del'ineates traits and patterns of violence that have continued into the present. In the latter, by placing the Proclamation in historical setting, the author essays to give its proper evaluation to a document· of American freedom which he believes has been greatly neglected. and White (New York: Random House, 1964) \ ... the Negro's self·esteem suffers because he is c·onstantly receiving an unpleasant image of himself from the behavior of others to him.\ Thus the Black man begins to wonder if he really exists. The problem of facelessness as James Baldwin puts it, is the main preoccupation of Black literature, each writer using his own metaphor to describe it. In his Dusk to Dawn (New York: Harcourt Brace and Company, 1940), DuBois expresses it as a sense of never being heard. To James Baldwin, on the other hand, the problem is that Nobody Knows My Name (New York: Dial, 1961). Slaves: New and Old or death over him. The result was to lead the prisoner to identify with the guard instead of hating him. Elkins explains that the slave's or prisoner's position of absolute depencletlcy virtually compels him to see the authority·figure as somehow really a \goody-goody\. Thus, o n e c an e as i 1 y fit the sla¥e-master relationship into the p risoner-SS relationship and come up with what I consider a brilliant and helpful tool for discussiNg say the notion or problem of identity. As basic reference sources, the following are very scholarly and authoritative in their approach: Today, the cry is <.lften heard of who actually speaks for the Negro? Many enjoy pitting the \Rap Brown's\ against the \Roy Wilkin's\ and thus causing more confusion. For su1:ely the point cannot be argued that bothl are aiming towards the same goal. Negroes in the Arts their help · · conveyed a picture of Black people in ~'\IBerica as being docile and imitative, stupid and parasitic-children, primitives, buffoons. [ t has ·done this in what can be narrowed down to two basic forms: omission and commission. 1. Negroes are naturally a childlike character, and adjust easily to the most unsatisfactory social situations which they accept readily and even happily in contrast to the American Indians, who preferred extinction to slavery. Gunnar Myr.dal's An American Dilemma (New York: Harper, 1963~is a mammoth work with the basic theme of inequality and its impact on every phase of the Black man's life and personality. In connection with Myrdal's book, the reader might find it interesting to read Ralph Ellison's Shadow and Act (New York: Random House, 1964 ). He concludes his work with a cutting critique of Myrdal's work. Ellison is probably better known for his The Invisible Man (New York: Random House, 1952) a novel abohlt what white society does to the Black man in America. Ellison labels this \What\ as Uncle Tomism. Stanley Elkin's Slavery: A Problem in American Institutional and Intellectual Life (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1959) is a brilliant and scholarly work. Using both comparative and social science data, Elkin's major theme is the development of a unique and more thorough form of slavery in America because of the lack of structured institutions. Mr. Elkin's has been criticized in his use of comparisons. He draws comparisons between the Nazi prison camps and the Southern plantations. He proceeds to discuss how the Jews in the camps were reduced to complete and childish dependence upon the masters, the SS had actually become a father symbol. In addition, the prisoner was reminded hour after hour that the SS guard had power of life Frank Tannenbaum's Slave and Citizen: The Negro in the Americas (New York: Knopf, 194 7) is a very interesting analysis of differences in treatment and development of Black men in North and South America. Many have made the point that while South Americans were cruel to the slave, thus connoting a social position that could be ameliorated, the North Americans were cruel to the Negro. Along the lines of literature and the arts, ofle might find LeRoi Jones' Blues People (New York: Morrow, 1963) an interesting story of jazz. In addition, Langston Hughes' (ed.) New Negro Poets U.S.A. (Bloomington: Indian University Press, 1 964) list thirty -seven poets with various views. Claude McKay's Home t() Harlem (New York: Harper, '1928) might provide some interesting insights into what Katz called the \Negro Renaissance~' when such people as Paul Robeson, Langston Hughes, Countee CuHen, Eubie Blake (composer of \I'm Just Wild About Harry\) and Claude McKay were coming out of Harlem. Ill .the decade of prosperity and easy money that followed WW I, the white population had en()ugh money in their pockets to make a pasttime out of finding new ways to spend their money. The brilliant talent that was coming out of Harlem provided this outlet. phases of only say to be until the I'·.' enough •' to raise the ,·I .. in both paration. We as defense of the only as a ' facts s at Union. suggestive anyone privilege is democratic hope that the future you. R. Stoll Elections Commission pamper -loom their thatched unhurried in this jacket $60. Negro Historians Left Out For example, Henry Steele Commager, considered one of the most learned scholars in the United States, produced a volume entitled Documents of American History (4th edition, 1948) and in it there is not a single word produced by a Negro 'il himself. •• •, A mild example of what I call \sins of commission\ are present in what some choose to call \standard\ history works. From George Bancroft to Charles Beard, the Black man is presented explicitly as an inferior and particularly docile species of humanity, not to speak of the obscene chauvinism 2. Only the poorer stock of Africa was enslaved. 3. The Negro really has no past. Black Authors Correct Wrongs An excellent source book on African backgrounds is John Hope Franklin's From Slavery to Freedom: A History of American Negroes (New York: Knopf.3rd ed., 196 7). Franklin, chairman of the history department of the University of Chicago, is considered the leading Black historian in America. In additi0n to its scholarly depth, Franklin's book has a long classified bibliographical essay listing what In connection with Ellison's The Invisible Man it might be interesting to look at two other books by James Baldwin and William E.B.DuBois with the same tone. As Charles Silberman brings out in his Crisis in Black Vol. 1 No. 2 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., OCTOBER 18, 1968 : I l The Jud_ge Won't Button Up as the Katz Meow by Alan Cohen Funk and Wagaalls describes an ignoramous or an ignorant i• · 't! person as one \having no learning or education\ and who is ••unenligh tened\. I describe Ju.dge Jacob Herzog as an ignoramous. He refused to discuss the history of Vietnam and \the moral correctness of 1 .. .. '..· •• (\ the War, because there is nothing to be gained by it.\ Besides not being c~u.eerned about the ~ .rt ~ history, --':jft:f probably doesn't know it,·]5ecause his mind is that of a military mm who worries about the safety of the soldiers involved in the fighting, 11ot the reason th.at they are fighting. He worries about the \honor\ of the United States in attempting to stop the fighting. And '\Peace with Honor\ was the topic in the auditorium at •· Linton High School as the Schenectady Area Laymen and Clergy Concerned about Vietnam presented the three Congressional candidates of the 29th district. Only about 150 citizens of our fair city made their way to hear the speakers, and I didn't recognize any Union faces. But maybe that's the way it is now; nobody cares about Congress since the Presidential election gives no hope anyway. Sitting next to Herzog was Daniel E. Button, the incumbent Republican who is having his troubles against Herzog's extensive machine-controlled campaign. Button cited the many mistakes that the United States has made in dealing with Vietnam, but he did not include the moral guilt that the United States must accept and the lo~s of some honm in order to achieve peace. He stressed the need for new leadership at the top (i.e. Richard Nixon). J. Lawrence Katz, the Liberal Party candidate, agreed with Button's contention; however Katz feels that the change should begin on the Congressional level (i.e. Daniel Button). Katz spoke in the spirit of Paul O'Dwyer and Gene McCarthy, recognizing the collosal errors made by politicians and the immorality p erpretrated by the United States in not recognizing the Vietnamese people's right to ''self-determination\. Resembling a cantor in a Jewish temple (I can't think of anything closet), Mr. Katz opened his talk by defining the words \peace\ and \honor\ based on a desire of integrity as opposed to \face·s~lVing\. Katz cited the \lack of maturity\ of the U.S. government in remembering that we have never lost a war. By disregarding all other factors, we are not able to see the guilt we hold for becoming involved in the first place. He defined honor as \integrity\ and \the willingness to admit mistakes\. Furthermore, we could learn to live with a Communist Vietnam as we do with Tito's Yugoslavia. Mr. Katz's arguments seemed fairly sensible to me, but not to Judge Herzog. His concern of a Community takeover in Vietnam was manifested by his statement \What next, the Philipines, Malaysia, South America, I ask you?\ He accepts a victory as being a cure-all for world peace and an end to Communist .. wars on liberatiol).\. This reporter asked Herzog a question concerning his lack of insight into the reason the Vietnamese people continue to do battle with the greatest military power on earth and the fact that they have been fighting for over a thousand years (see Concordy, Volume 97, nos. 12-14) against all sorts of opposition. Herzog's ret or t was \N o\ ; I was frustrated for the rest of the evening. FREE WITH CONCORDIENSIS Booker T. Washington's Up From Slavery (New York: Doubleday, 1902) will provide a controversial addition to any bibliography. For today many Black scholars will proceed to call Mr. Washington \Uncle Tom\ in that he advocated strict economic rather than social advancement. But we still must consider Washington's contribution because he was basically concerned with the I)Otion of \amelioration.\ Can this man govern? See page 4. POEM One could of ccmrse go on and on with the \Good and Bad\. But a sporadic attempt has been made to give the reader a kaleidoscopic ·effect of what is published. Miller's A Bibliography of the American Negro does a competent job of classifying almost every book written on the subject. The North End Diane Dickershade from Russell Sage and Don Armstrong of Saratoga will be features at the North End beginning at 8 p.m. tonight in Bremner House, North College. The two performers, both Oll folk guitar, wiJJ be the first off-campus artists featured this year at the coffeehouse, Jim Talbert, manager, said. The upcoming agenda for the next few weeks will include a wide variety of off-campus performers, Talbert said. Staff workers and persons to help with publicity are still needed by th.e North End, Talbert said. Persons interested should contact Talbert at 346-205 5 or 393·7378. A Would-be Historian Reflects on Lake Trasimene by Roger W. Miller '69 Animals and cannibals descend From Alpine passes' clover: The indians (Semitic trash) Do thrash the Romans soundly. \Turree Turrah\ the Irish cry, And, as their number dwindles, For Deidre's light, and Joyce's sight, Old Banda squashed the lentils. .. Erin, go back\ and \Shoo ra-loo,\ The blacks of Afric answer, But black and Gael, all tanned Rome well, Those tandem, random victors. Erect and tall, proud Hannibal, He took the ball, and ran it. They had it in- this strange rag-tag- The bag- and Rome, she took the same. To see the hordes! To see that throng Would surely raise your hackles. And, as Dame Fortune's torclt cncl<les, With snaps and pop, the home team stops, Losing ends and backs and tackles. Old Baal must certain shine this day (Who guards Tunisian marches)_ The old Phoenician proto·Eiohi.Jn Does thresh the Latin wheat, Does rid Italian diets of their starches. Meanwhile, in Rome, the Diet meets (Duma, Cortes, Knesset?} The Senate sits, deliberC~tes, confers- or is it That- it twiddles its collective thumbs? It is. While all the Latin vulgar renderings for boobs and boons, for scum and bums Are .given vent in chorus, late fell ow choir-boys Call off their dates, and leave t:heir mates, To join the legions of the W()rms.

A Revievv: No l·dol Rhetoric hy Paul Andrews Chances JR' when you picked up your ldoll'ltLrary ma[!,afiiH? at registration you llippeJ thruu~h it, glanced at the photu essay, read the storv titles and authors to sec if there was anybudy you knew, and tDsscd it aside. That's toP b;td. This !Sstte dcscrws more th:.Hl that. rrolll the pruvuca!IVC cover by !\nn Gat i tn t hL' last story, \The \h'L'-t ing\' b~ Paul Graysun, the latest Idol ts a far nHne creative and rcprcsL'lltative issue that unc' prcvinus :have he en. r hat ma) IJO t he saying much. PrnL frank Gadl> m1J crew have always had lrtmble rounding up tnatcr.ial even when there were students willing lo work on a literary magazine. The result has been a generous sampling of a few authors which tended to be too much of the same thing: sort of like an issue of The New Yorker written entirely by John Updike and E.B.White. matur-e: they !~:ave the reader with the gnawin~ feeling of a job half dune. Three uf the stories .. \'Jun- athan\ by Charles Williams, \'Ernie\ and \\The Meeting\ huth by Paul Grayson, deserve particular comment. \\Ernie\ is about a curious little character whl-l rnurders Mrs. Tatum, a taun tin~ tlamlt ing scxrctary -type at the stLHC where he is emph1yed. Lrt tk 1s told abuu t his past w his fu t ure·-ur 111 bl'tweerL Apparer1tly the nn'ly reason hnie nmrdcrcd Mrs. Tatum was because she teased hirH. One could Jive headlong in 10 the issue of paranoia, but the character Ernie is not explored enough (nor. if he was paranoid, would Ernie have been so affected by his deed.) stimulating and effective. (; ive the Idol arwtllcr chance. If you've nm.lc it this far in this review yuu have no excuse for neglecting !LJC Idol. AnJ Jnn' t miss \\ln a B~ts\ page 42, wh·icl! bc~ins, \'The shell yuu bought ... \ It's by Wa:lter Conch. For Ten Cents Plain by James Garner The uudergruund magazine. reading staple of mdicals and p o-li c c chic r scvcrywhere' is represented off Union campus by Paper Highway. Born of the money of Rich Balagur (Publisher), this erratically published journal (an .. '· Photograph of exhibit by Cerald Searle. •I r. , e ., I· ~ The latest issue avoids this problem. The wide author representation lends the contents some of the diversity in approach and tunc it before lacked. In '\The Meeting\ Grayson starts with an interesting idea hut fails to give it proper handling. The ··meeting\ is between a son and his true father, a fact of which the boy is unaware. But the manner in which the father convinces his son of h.is identity is wholly unbelievable, and the sophomoric dialog and actions of the boy hardly befit a I 7-year-old. The en tire narrative is much too contrived to lend the story an air of credibility. underground tradition) comments and reflects on the rad.ical movement, the non-radical movement and the revolution (wherever you are). Who Can Gover:n? . I .. The chief difficulty of the literary side of the Idol is in fact the difficulty experienced by a whole gcner.a tion of writers-- lack of a substantial theme. Especially prevalent in the short story genre, this theme gap has either been purposely avoided--as in the episodic short story which attempts merely tu relate a succession of circumstances-·nr attempted with failure, either because the theme remains undc rdeveloped or because there wasn't a theme to begin with. A few short stories have broken this barrier--Shirley Jackst1I1's The Lottery. Salinger's For Esme--With Love and Squalor, and Updike's Pigeon Feathers--but these works number so few they easily can be counted on both hands. Most of the ldol stories don't even attempt theme, being cun tent to center a mund givirig the reader a brief glimpse into the protagonist's life--the problem is that the glimpses arc tuo tleeting and sketchy to give the reader a sense of satisfaction upon completion of the stury. The first piece, \'A \latter of Love\ by Bill Dougherty, typifies this dilemma. Boy meets girl and falls in love in a couple of hours. It happens all the time. Dougherty's treatrner1t is good--after a choppy Hemmingway beginning he settles down into a more flowing narrative. although he never makes up his mind as to whether he is going to translate the Spanigh dialog for us, let the characters translate it, or leave it as is. He accomplishes what he sets out to do, for what that was worth. The same episodic theme characterizes other stories, including James Gallagher's \The Motion\ Norman Doverg's \Lewis\ .and Kent Kraft's \Season of Mists\ and \Waltzing\. None of the stories are given the opportunity to Charles Williams' '\Jonathan\ is perhaps the most entertaining story of the collection. A young enthusiastic photugrapher in a smaJl town has a romantic interlude with a girl who leaves him and takes with her his zest for his art and his life. Williams gets his point aeress with a minimum of words and no extraneous explanation, while at the same time evoking familiar sympathy from the reader. From that standpoint it easily is the best work in the magazine. A literary essay \Notes from Sweden\ by Scutt Siegler and a smattering of \\modern\ pruse type poetry round out the issue. Notable among the poetic proiTerings arc ··Remembrance\ by Abby Stillman and the suitably titled '\Prose Poem\ by Alan Ziegler, slight centered to the left. Not tl) be overlooked arc Carl Rosenstock's poems, '\Mon1ing Litany\ and ··outlaw Prime\. Both are among Rosenstock's best works and testify to his de I ica tc ear and sensitive co m m a n d o f l a n g u a~ e. Rosenstock suffers somewhat from Lack of substance, but ·if there is a better poet at Union he isn't publishing in the Idol. On the artistic side, little can be said other than the art work is superb. The photography section by Don Barrett, whodid so much for the Garnet, 11eeds no endorsement other than it was done by Barrett; Dean Hoffman's art work is DEWITT'S Cafelwia and Jap Room Fine food and Legol Beverages 118- 120 JAY S'TREET Looking at the latest issue may be misleading to those not familiar with the underground press. The beauty of the u r~ d c r g r o u n d press, an d especially Paper Highway is its dynamic character. The flexibility of the magazine is perhaps its most exciting feature. For a I 0 cent minimum con t~ibu lion, you can purchase entry to the underground. The cover of this pamphlet-like maga:.1ine is a collage of newspaper clippings, altered photographs, and semi-epigrams. Inside, there are articles and cartoons that are read from the far left. The two main articles are concerned with the guerilla theater and an interview with Yippie! non-leader Abbie Hoffman. The former tells of a theater of total involvement: a theater where Bob Dylan's more fantastic images are brought to life. The Hoffman interview is interesting as far as it goes, hut is finally disappoin ling. You are led to feel there is much more to Abbie Hoffman than what is revealed. The conclusion at the end is unnecessary. There is also \The Gross Society\ a John Lennon-type view of the Jllhnson disaster: \'Old Soldiers Never Die\ a surr~:alistic account of the beginning of a revolution; poems and other features that may not please, hut will stimulate. So, before your subscription to Playboy arrives, pick up a copy of the Paper Highway. Of course, Playboy is better to take to the bathroom. by Steve Pie1:ce Steve Pierce '71, campus political pundit, will be offering his political views every now and then in Facsimile.--Ed. DuriNg the 1%5 campaign for the mayoralty of New York City a scriousyuestiun was raised by several political commentators. Surveying the vast myriad of problems which confronted the city, they asked, \Tan New York City be governed at all, by anyone'!\ It was (and still is) a valid question. Today, moreover, it is much more pertinent to ask the same question uf our nation as a whole. Given the violence in our cities in the fonn of both race riots and a rising crime rate, the general unrest and dissension caused by the war and the overall tendency to put aside compromise as an instrument of political progress, one can only wonder whether any candidate for president would, if given the chance, be able to preside over a tranquil nation. It is a serious question, for, at its roots, it raises doubts about the viability of a democratic government in a complex, industrial society. No matter whether Nixon or Humphrey is elected on November 5, it is quite likely that the unrest which is felt everywhere today will subside. Electoral plurality (or even majority) does not guarantee the ability to govern effectively. However, we cannot simply stop at this point, throw up our hands and bemoan the inevitable. There are several steps which the new government SESQUIPEDALIAN l n response to a rapidly doggerel to epic to nursery decreasing number of requests, rhyme to fortune cookie Concordiensis is exuberant in its versification will be considered. announcement of the First The con test is open to all Annual Facsimile Poetry members of the College Contest. Prizes will be awarded community their friends, ($15 for first, $7forsecondand relatives and pets. All 25 cents each for the next 12). masterpieces may be handed to Entries may be of any strain .of any member of the Facsimile the bard's art and all entries staff or placed in the Concordy from haiku to villanelle to mailbox, Student Activity Office. RITZ RESTAURANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue f•aturing HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS. CHOPS. SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Parties Pizza & Sandwiches at All Hours Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open Daily 11 A.M. to Midnight might take in order to make some progress toward reconciliation. One might think that the obvious solution would be to placate just those groups wlwse protestations arc at the root of the unrest.lfthe demands of the black militant leaders, for instance, were to be n~et in full then at least some of the violent disturbances which have jarred our cities might be avoided. However, if this were done only at the expense of others (for it is axiomatic in politics that what makes one group happy makes another unhappy) and if it seemed that the government catered only to those groups which resorteJ to disturbances, extralegal and otherwise, to gair\ their ends, would that not be an encouragement to extremism of all kinds? And would not the incidence of political blcakmail by men of violence be increased if only the most vocal and militant groups were heard by the government? Outright appeasement of dissatisfied groups is clearly not the answer, for instead of preventing dislocations it would only encourage them. Just as surely, it is safe to reject the other obvious solution, espoused by people of the Wallace stripe. which is total repression of dissenting groups. This maneuver would serve unly to harden their resolution and make them even less compromising. It is my feeling that there is a middle way (as there usually is) which will, in the long run, afford the most equitable and long-lasting solution. If the new President simply makes it his policy to tell the American people the truth at all times he will go a long way toward COED Students still can pick up coed questionnaires at the A d m i n i s t r at ion b u i 1 d in g. winning %ack the cor1fidence of whatever groups no ;longer have any faith in tl1eir -government. The Johnson 4!liministration ') took a fa tal step 'when it first hedged on <111c ·of its much-publicized IJr()mises---that _, American boys would not become involved ill an Asian land war. At tl~iit point, it alienated the vast majority of · 1 the intelledual community. Similarly, the Negroes were l~d to believe tha 1 ,th ir problems, which arc the products of centuries of racisrn, could be ovcrco1ne in a few silo rt years by the expenditure ~>fa few billion · · dollars. This was a cmel delusion to be sure. AsRicba'Jd Nixon has said many tines ·iu attacking the Johnson adm in is tratiotl, \'One ' 'V ~:. thing worse than not keeping a T promise is making a· promise that cannot be kept.\ ()n this issue, \ 1 ... < as on so rnany o titers, the people ' were not told the truth---that it . 'l_·_i was economically ir11possible for I the federal goverJtment to do ' 1 ~. what it had said it W()uld do. Is ,. it any wunder that the .groups \' which have been \takeh\ are alienated frum ollr guvernment? ~ .. ,. It is to l>e hoped that the new President will take a 11cw tact in being absulu.tc ly forthrigh't at all ., ,_, ~, ...... times. If Ire rnakcs no promises which he cannot kep and docs his utmost tu insure that the promises he has Illadc arc kept, progress can be illade. Whether Mr. Nixo11 and the Republicans 14. I . sweep into l)ff]cc ur the·), t. Vice-President \VJil\S and then engineers a complete break with the c ur·rent .:.Hlministration, reconcilia lion is possible. It will, '~ t;. of course, as a.hvays, require patience and co· operative understaading un ~the part of the dissenting groups. :B;.ut is that too much t{) ask !() ensure that America remainsgo-vernable? Reports indicate 'that responses so far have fallen considerably short ()f desirable. A liberal estimate placed at 500 the number of Cf.U«estionnaires returned. No dealir1c yet has been set for 1>11bmitting the questionaaire. Vinitkl ·;) \) \ Men's Shop Specialists in Collegiate Wear ..) (( 514 State Street Park & ShC)j> at Lafayette .F r.ee P arl<i11g .-/J ll, 0 E n c c ~ t

. e ., . , '· -~ Searle. •I r . \' . I . of ;longer have pvemment. ') f.. hen it first ·D f i l S hat l not an Asian point, it of · > t.. were led r problem's, roduct s of , could be ort years by few billion · · -, u.el delusion Nixon has the tion, \One ' ~ ~:. keeping a T that this issue, 1 1 ... < the people 1 it . ~~ ... ' for ~ to do ., ' ~ ! N()uld do. Is ·· the groups l.' are t? ~ .. , the new new tact in at all no promises and docs rc that the de arc kept, de. Whether Republicans or the • 3 , and then break with ion, I 4. I . sible. It will, '~ t;, ays, require c part of the is that too e-nsure that at responses \ . A liberal ~~ \ t 500 the tionnaires yet has ~ ~, the • .. . . At a meeting of the class of '71 Concordy Photo Editor Rich Kramer and Staff man Larry Friedman captured the varying moods of guest speaker ·Professor Michael Shinagel Chairman of the Department of English. SKI INSTRUCTORS Weekend positions available for skiers to instruct high school boy's and girls. Prior in- struction experience not r-e- quir-ed. Good compensation. Exeellent ski facilities. SHAKER VILLAGE SKI GROUP Write or Call: Shaker Road, New Lebanon, N.Y. Lebanon Springs (N.'f.) 7-1255 ZELLMER'S NORGE LAIJNDRY AND CLEANING VILLAGE AT 1559 VAN VRANKEN AVE. (e~t Hottie Street) DRY CL-EANING WASHERS 8 Lbs. ----------- $2.00 12lb. ------------ .25 4 Lb. Min.-------- 1.00 20 lb.------------ .35 DRYERS 30 Lb. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .SO 10 Min, _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .1 0 OPEI-I - 8 A.M. to 10 P. M. Mon. to Sat.- I 0 A.M. to 6 P.M. Sundays IF YOU HAVE NEVER HAD NORGE DRY CLEANING DONE WE CAN BET YOU WILL BE AMAZED ~jl.C Now's The Time To MARRY ME Zsa Zsa hos engaged •• , • How About You, Signed Husband # 3 Buy your Wedding Ring or E n• gagement Ring at Maurice B. Graubart & Sons Jew.elers, 166 Jay St. PoRomounl PICTUReS PResenTS a 01n0 oe LcURenTIIS PRODUCTIOn / J! Jalle~, FOilOO B£11<1l£11<~11Cl NOW PLAYING CINEMA 7 TROY-SCHENECTADY ROAD ADJACENT JAMAICA INN

Engineering and Science at lBM ''You're treated like a professional ri,ght from t:he start:' \The attitude here is, if you're good enough to be hired, you're good enough to be turned loose on a project,\ says Don Feistamel. Don earned a B.S. E. E. in 1965. Today, he's an Associate Engineer in systems design and evalua- tion at IBM. Most of his work consists of determin- ing modifications needed to make complex data processing systems fit the specialized requirements of IBM customers. Depending on the size of the project, Don works individually or in a small team. He's now working with three other engineers on part of an air traffic control system that wHI process radar information by computer. Says Don: \There are only general guide- lines. The assignment is simply to come up with the optimum system.\ Set your own pace Recently he wrote a simulation program that enables an IBM computer to predict the per- formance of a data processing system that wil'l track satellites. He handled that project him- self. \Nobody stands over my shoulder,\ Don says. \I pretty much set my own pace.\ Don's informal working environment is typi- cal of Engineering and Science at IBM. No matter how large the project, we break it down into units small enough to be handled by one person or a few people. Don sees a lot of possibilities for the future. He says, \My job requires that I keep up to date with all the latest IBM equipment and systems programs. With that broad an outlook, I can move into almost any technical area at IBM-development, manufacturing, product test, space and defense projects, programming or marketing.\ Check with your placement office If you're interested in engineering or science at IBM, ask your placement office for more information. Or send a resume or letter to Paul Koslow, ISM Corporation, Dept. C, 425 Park Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022. We'd like to hear from you even if you're headed for graduate school or military service. An Equal Opportunity Employer •P Reali be a tot; encomp . v college propose on Mon . precedil (l on Nov to expt politica ... ~ A · Dennis since ~ to mal1 1li They h for the Electio1 Tuesda; . '· a.m. The by the , ~ consist made membe chaired ~..< panel point~ probab electio 't' . '1:. Th, I \' i ! ' prodw Ander Levitt '\i' Weeke Saturc and ~ Noven Nott ~ Ca~ compl alread cast 1 Mour ~, recen1 Th after aroun ~ Capt ~-; l.; ..,. '>t• Conf~ the prism n n an or eight Unio on t Sund at th at J welc• A cha1 Int prov with lead for part R.P w Pha Rus Anl \'- Uni

~:-, I(; I' 'l • l \' SC Activities by Jim ~tillman \: Realizing that college should be a total educational experience encompassing more thanjust the IJ college campus, Rusty Manker proposed to the StudentCouncil on Monday night that the week . preceding the national eJection (;' on November 5th :be dedicated to expressing concern over the political developments of 1968. .._~ A committee headed by · Dennis Mof.fit has been busy since Monday developing ways to make that concern evident. 'li They have organized a \'Forum for those Concerned abGu t the Election\ which will be held on Tuesday, October 29th at 11:30 I. a.m. The forum will be sponsored by the Student Council and will ~ consist ofa discussion by a panel made up of two faculty members and two students and chaired by Prof. Shinagel. The '- panel will present .different points of view abo11t the probable consequences of the election and the current state of 't' the policital system. · After the panel discussion the .floor will be opened to those students who wish to present their points of view. At the end of the Forum, black and white armbands will be given to those students who wish to wear them to demonstrate their concern. It is· hoped that students will wear the armbands through the week preceding the election. The meaning of the armbands has not been defmed further than \showing concern\ to enable each · student to decide what significance the armband holds for himself. Those students who complain about apathy on the Union campus could conceivably use this forum to demonstrate their concern an.d suggest ways in which interested students could use their energy to bring about change on the national level. Plans for a te~ch-in on the day following the election are also being discussed, however, at this time no further information is available. Mountebanks 'is by Steve Katz The Mountebacks first production of the year, The Andersonville Trial by Saul Levitt, will be presented on Fall Weekend,. Thursday, Friday and Saturday, November 7, 8 and 9 and the following weekend, 11. November 14, 15 and 16, in the Nott Memorial Theater. I 1 Casting for the play :has been '<. completed and rehearsals have already begun. With ov~r twenty cast members, it is th:.e largest Mounteback pl'Oauction in ~ , recent years. - · The action takes place shortly after the Civil War, and revolves around the military trial of ~ Captain Louis Wirz, the Confederate officer in charge of the notorious Andersonville prisoner ofwar camp. The central issue in the trial becomes not whether Wirz actually committed the atrocities for which he may now be executed, but whether he had the moral obligation to refuse to obey the orders of his superior officers. The role of Wirz is played by Michael Riley; his defending attorney, Captain Baker, by Phillip Rice, and the prosecutor by David van Denburg. The play will be the first directed here by Henry Weil, who this year replaces William Merriweather as Director of the Theatre. Mr. Well has previously directed plays at Yale and Columbia University, as well as in summer stock theatre. He intends to use some very unusual techniques, never tried before at Union to achieve a more realistic court room effect. lnter-C ollegiate Dialogue The Inter-Collegiate Dialogue, an organization of students from i eight area colleges including i · . ._, Union, is sponsoring a discussion on the \Wallace Phea0menon\ Sunday October 20 at 2:00p.m. at the Campus Center, S.U.N.Y. at Albany. All students are welcome. According to Tom Hartman, chairman of the group, the Inter-Collegiate Dialogue '- provides area college students with a fonn of expression, !eadership and an opportunity \\' for social gatherings. The participating institutions are: R.P.I., S.U.N.Y., Albany Pharmacy. Siena, Saint Rose, Russell Sage, Our Lady of Angles, Maria College, and ;., Union. The Inter-Collegiate Dialogue holds monthly discussions at the various schools on topics chosen by the students. Topics selected are of interest both to those attending and to the whole Tri-City area. Hartman said that the organization helps to broaden education through the gathering of students of diverse interests. He called it a \peaceful demonstration of thought, reason and willingness to confront the issues of the world around us.\ The group is not aiming toward social action but toward the formation of ideas from which social action might lead. Union representatives to the Inter-Collegiate Dialogue are Al Mangold and Gary Prevost. Forrner Ed:ilor Hits Fog City Editor's Note: Richard Patterson, last year's editor of Concordiensis is currently studying at the London School of Economics. A vague uneasiness is beginning .to invade this Capital city of the British Empire as it braces for what may be one of the biggest anti-Vietnam War demonstrations held outisde the United States. Its organizers confidently predict 200;000 members on October 27, and: police fear they may be right. If the demonstration turns into a mild English version of Chicago, much of the blame will fall 0n the English press. Police, the journal of the London police force this week accused the city press 0f using \intensive and lurid\ advance publicity to \lay on a major confrontation\ be.tween protestors and police. Urging police to \'keep it co0l\ the journal said that for every hundred demonstrators who protest out of a deep conviction and have no intention of acting illegally, there are a handful of organized agitators determined to provilce violence. The journal likened advance publicity in the protest to that which preceeded the recent battle in Chicago. London police are famous for their kindness and courtesy. My three weeks here have only reinforced this image. London's finest neither look for trouble, expect trouble, or hardly prepare for it. They carry no guns (Bobbys are never Blither suspended for shooting a thief), have on helmets for protection from rocks and bottles, and are allowed to use their short Aruncheons only under \severe pressure.\ The entire British police force has only 645 tear gas grenades and cartriges {the Chicago police must have had 645 per man), and according to the Times \the Home office has pledged that they will never in any circumstance be used to qBell demonstrators.\ I attended a rally in Trafalger Square on Sunday, September 26, to protest British aid to Nigeria in its war with Biafra. About 1,000 people filled the square to hear speakers denounce this government policy. Periodic walks around the square revealed the presence of five policemen standing inconspicuously in various corners of the square, all without weapons of any kind. The anti-Vietnam demonstration, staged by a group called the October 27 Committee for Solidarity with Vietnam (especially the NLF) has been publicized extensively. The protestors plan to gather on the North Bank of the Thames on Sunday October 27 at 3:30 p.m. and march through the streets to Whitehall, the home of the British defense machine, to protest \British complacity\ in the war. Next, they will proceed to their main target, the American Embassy, where police fear trouble may break out. This reporter will be on the scene to cover all the events for this column. I.R.C. The Davidson Entertainment Committee and the Union Inter-Residence Council are The International Relations sponsoring a cocktail party and Club is sponsoring a series of dance tomorrow night in Fox lectures about \Four Conflicts House lounge. in International Politics.\ These The cocktail party is from will include crises in the 5:30 to 6:30 and the dance is relationship between India and from 9:00 to 12:30. Mixed Pakistan, the Arab nations and drinks will be served at the Isreal, Black Africa and the cocktail party and liquor punch· Union of South Africa, and at the dance. Music will be Cuba and the United States. provided by the \Blue Lunch\. The club hopes to bring . Tickets are $3.50 per couple· official representatives of each and $2.50 single. They are of the governments involved to available from members of the give their sides of the issues. D.E.C. and will be sold at the These speakers will be scheduled door. in close proximity so that A book en titled The students may compare the Transformation of Man by Lewis divergent views of the different Mumford has disappeared from representatives. Mr. A.F. the office of Psychology Ahmad, the Consul-General professor Clare W. Graves. The from Pakistan will be the first book is quite important to the speaker, next Wednesday with professor•s research and its an Indian speaker scheduled for· return would be greatly early November. appreciated by him. In addition to conflict issues, The Schenectady Chamber of the IRC will bring several Commerce is planning a traffic Congressmen to the campus to survey of the city on Thursday spealc on vital questions. Among October 24th between the hours those on the tentative list are of 4 and 6 PM. They will hire 20 such notables as Senators students at the rate of $2.00 per Clifford Case, George Aiken, hour. Interested students should C 1 a i b o r n e P e 11 , a n d . contact Mrs. McManus in the Representatives Benjamin Student Aid Office. Rosenthal, Otis Pike, and William Fitts-Ryan. Sigma Phi wishes to announce an alteration in its social plans Members of the college for this week-end. Its party will community are welcome to be closed to all but freshmen. attend and participate in the L._ __________ __J discussions that follow each talk. ·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.. The club is led this year by I·~ ! DAMBROSE CLEANERS o ffi.cers Gary Prevost (President), Dennis Meyers (V.P.), Ira Rutkow (Treasurer), Bob Levine (Secretary), and Phil Ball (Publicity Chairman). 1519 VAN VRANKEN AVENUE SHIRTS AS YOU LIKE THEM 22C STARCH NO STARCH BUTTONS SEWED O.N PANTS •• 49~ WHY PAY MORE SAVE ·- SAVE ... SAVE JAY BILLIARD LOUNGE 167 JAY ST. SPECIAL RATEi6 FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS Bring Your Dates Free Parking In Rear 'Jo~ Tcu .~e.j ! - 1-/•w ,,.._ ~O\f jo :J -fo t='.j\it fi'-\T ~ pi•, !<O'h~\ '1~>\''\t _,+ -+kt s I; ~.e r~l( ~p $\;dt ~h.J'I\? WISE. OLD .OWL' It must be an omen of the wisdom forthcoming from the pages of Concordiensis. An owl, an adult sawhite owl to be exact, visited the offices of Union's student newspaper Thursday and spent last night peering over the shoulders of the editors, inspiring them to works of greatness. It was labled \minerva's bird\ by the editors and tagged as the Concordiensis mascot. But Concordiensis isn't selfish. It doesn't want to steal all the wisdom on campus. The editors r~alize that the symbol of wisdom might · be useful elsewhere on campus. So, with the help of a couple of amateur birdwatchers, the editors sent Concordiensis' Mascot on its way into Jackson's Gardens to spread tidings of joy and happiness. Dr. C. William Huntley, Professor of psychology, and Bernard Carmen, Director of publications, both of them four a.m. bird-watching hobbyists, helped rescue \Minerva's Bird\ from its high perch above the editor's office. Who knows where \Minerva's Bird\ will turn up next? Student Council, maybe? The President's office? the frosh dorms? Down to Louis', let us go, Let the lager freely flow. r·--;~;-;~-;~~-;~~~---1 • I and Hardware Needs : l & Cleani11g Supplies : t See Us ! !cAPITOL PAINT & J f HARDWARE CO. I I I 1 730 STATE ST. I I I I Phone FR 4-4123 1 I I ·-------------------- .. --j A unique place .. to dine with old EuropfUlll Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. NOW IN OUR 14th YEAR For reservations phone FR 4-8917

We Miss Bill Ketz Concordy Sports Will Cie.slnski Ou·tscore RP I? \' Per SIMON SEZ by LEN SI:MON by Len Simon Tomorrow's football game with RPI, aside from continuing a long-standing rivalry and entertaining what should be a mammoth Homecoming Weekend crowd, will also provide some interesting matchups and statistical battles. Six of tommorrow's grid combattants were mentioned in this week's ECAC Dicision All-Star team. On the Uaion side of the ledger, Doug Mele was named to the team, while Jerry Ostrander and Paul Ramsey were mentioned as nominees. For RPI, defensive end Dennis Lawrence was chosen, while split end Jack l:Iart and defensive back Ron Cearnal were also nominated. Lawrence and Ostrander should have some contact on the Gamet end sweeps, while Hart and Ramsey may mix it up in the secondary. Cearnal should have his hands full with the assignment of covering Rich Swan, who was a consistent member of the ECAC squad last season, and was named Sophomore of the Year by that group. On the statistical side, Joe James is the key name. James, should his injuredankle heal enough to allow him to play, is less than 50 yards away from the all-time Union career rushing record. Beyond that James will have the opportunity to personally destroy RPI for the third time. Two years aho h~ rushed for Ill yards on 26 carries, and last season broke through the Engineer defense for 143 yaids in 29 tries. Both times he was the key factor to a Union victory. Getting back to the ECAC, Union has crashed their ratings of eastern small college football, placing tenth on this week's balloting. King's Point is fourth, while future opponent Williams is fifth in the rating of middle-sized schools. A victory over Williams would send the Garnet skyrocketing up the ratings. SOCCER WITHOUT OKELLO With all the discussion of the ability of the gridders to bounce back from the loss of Craig Carlson to defeat Rochester, we may be neglecting the accomplishments of the soccer team, now 3-1 but without the services of last year's leading scorer, Robert Okello. Okello suffered a dislocated shoulder in the contest with Rochester, and is lost for the season. Robert was the mainstay of the fron line, possessing a powerful foot, and playing an unselfish game. He had made great strides since last season, when his play was not fully integrated into the team system. OPPONENT0SCOREBOARD Returning once more to football, our opponent's scores from this past Saturday show no real surprise. RPI suffered another miserable fourth quarter and fell brfore Drexel Tech, 20-10. Williams bombed wea~ Middlebury, 48-14. Hobart blanked Hamilton 12-0. In the only posstble change of form, Alfred was impressive for the first time this season, shutting out St. Lawrence 16-0. The first three quarters of that contest were almost complete futility, as the score stood 2-0, but the Saxons broke it open in the final 15 minutes. LAX LOSSES LaCrosses Coach Bruce Allison, who normally has better luck than most in keeping his his players in school and eligible, will most likely lose five varsity stickmen in an unusual way. Ron Wall, Steve Ciesinski, Frank Donninni, Fnnk Felts, and Art Munkenbeck are all on the tentative list of juniors accepted to the spring term in Vienna program. Should they make the final decision to go, which is more than likely, spring will probably find a few more sophomores seeing lacrosses action than was expected. Coach All:son, by the way, is a member of the Faculty Council, which approved the program unanimously. POINT'S TO PONDER Despite the fact that Union is not a big time athletic school which would get television coverage, we can be reminded of the physical prowess of Garnet squads of the past through the sports coverage offered by the tube. For instance, while watching the Harvard eight-man crew shoot for an Olympic gold medal, one could be reminded that the Urtion crew downed the Crimson back in 1835. Also, when NCAA football coverage brings you powerful Syracuse taking on some national power, we can be proud of the fact that the greatest number of points scored against any Syracuse football squad was 71, by Union, in 1891. Lax Tomorrow Varsity and freshman prospects for lacrosse are holding informal practice sessions this fall, under the direction of seniors Bruce Westby and Steve Herrick. The members of this unofficial squ:td will take on a similar group from Albany State tomorrow morning at 10:30 on Garis Field, adjacent to Nott Street and the Field House. The public is invited to attend, and the game will provide freshmen with the opportunity to familiarize themselves with a game which is an integral past of athletics at Union, although it is not a major high school sport in most areas. WRESTLING There will be a Wrestling meeting on Thursday, October 24 at 4:30 in the wrestling room of the gym. Anyone not involved in a fall sport is expected to attend. Practice begins on October 28. Gershon's Sandwiches Cold Cuts Salads Open lues. - Sun. 8 A.M. to 9 P.M. Ph: EX 3..0617 1600 Union St. j (. Gridders Solid Favorite Over RPI ) by Gary Prevost One of the oldest and most t r ad i ·t i o n a 1 r i v a k ie s in intercollegiate .sports gains its 66th renewal tomorrow on Alexander Field when the Garnet gridders face the Engineers of R.P.I. at l :30 in the 1968 Homecoming game. In recent years, the Du tclunen have dominated the series, winning every game si11ce 1959, including a 37-25 victory last year in Troy. The 'Garnet hold an overall record of 49-12-4 in series which dates back to 1886. The 2-1 gridders are fresh from a 21-7 upset victory over Rochester last weekend, and enter the game with a fairly healthy squad. Tom Oberst returns to the defensive line after illness sidelined him last week, but defensive end John Burton will remain benched with a knee injury. The defensive line was impressive last week, with both men sidelined but the return of Oberst cannot hurt, as his replacement, Tom Duffy, may be out of Saturday's encounter due to illness. FULL HOUSE Garnet fams expect to see more of Coach Flood's new full-house backfield of Joe James, Jerry Ostrander, and Larry Sykes, providing James fecovers from a mildly sprained anlde. A year ago, James set a Union rushing record with 143 ya~ds against the Engineers. The Engineers enter Saturday's contest with a 2-2 record, having opened with victories over St. Lawrence (14-10) and Colby (6-0) before falling to Hamilton (35-32) and Drexel '(20-10). In the latter two contests, the Engineers led going into the final qtlarter, but costly mistakes cost them both games. The Trojans are led by sophomore quarterback Steve LaMore, who is a fine throwing quarterback and was named ECAC sophomore-of-the-week for his ply against Hamilton, when he completed 20 passes for 276 yards. 48 RPI PASSES Last week, LaMore tied a school record with 22 completions, but he was forced to go to the air 48 times because of the ineffectiveness of the Engineer's ground game, a total of only 31 yards gained. Sophomores Rick Teamer and Don McLaud, adequate ball carriers, have been the setbacks but the return of speedy junior Larry Allocco may help th.e R.P .I. running attack. · \Test Middlebury· by Mike Reger Possessing a current' 3-1 record, the vastly improved Garnet soccer team will take on a strong Middlebury team in an away contest on Saturday. At this time last year, Union held a 1-3 slate against the same competition. Middlebury now stands 1-3-1 on the season after a 3-3 tie with R.P .I. In achieving the tie Middlebury displayed tremendous hustle to counter the more skilled game of the Engineers. Union fought to a 0-0 tie with the Panthers in last year's game. Coach Brown has switched the offense slightly for Saturday's game. Instead of the usual \W' offense in which three men play on the front line with two behind, the Garnet will use a four-man front line with either right inside Chris Swan or left inside Bobby Dodd coming up to the front with center forward Jim Wilson and wings Mike Solomon and Fred Mindlin depending upon which side the ball is on. The remaining inside will drop back and act as a \roamer\. This type of offense is used by most of the teams remaining on the Gamet schedule and will hopefully alleviate what Coach Brown termed \problems of control at midfield.\ Goalie Chris Cartsonis is back from an injury and may see limited action in Saturday's game. Soph Mike Pitt has done an excellent job in the goal and will continue in the spot, sharing the duties with Cartsonis. On defense Pete Palen and Walt DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on NoH Street Open Daily 10 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to 1 A.M. ' . Hutton have consistently turned in good performances. Leading the scoring for the Gamet is Jim Wilson with five goals. Mike Solomon, Fury Scialdone, and Bill Porter have a goal and an assist apiece followed by Robert Okello, Chris Swan, and Bobby Dodd with one goal. After Middle bury, the Dutchmen will meet Hobart in an away contest on Wednesday. Probably the weakest team remammg on the schedule, Hobart is unpredictable because they are now allowed to use freshmen in varsity sports. Last year's contest. resulted in a 0-0 tie. Go Garnet CELEBRATE THAT HOMECOMING WIN WITH PHIL'S OWN BRAND Liquor Store 511 UNION ST. EX 3-3111 EX 3-3110 LaMore's chief passing target will be senior split end Jack Hart, a sure-handed short receiver who has caught 34 passes for 306 yards this season, nirtth in the nation. Hart's match-up with the Garnet's talented Steve Ceisinki, who has four interceptions in three games, should be interesting. The Engineer defense is spearheaded by senior end Den.nis Lawrence. The 6'2\ 200 lb. defender has been chosen all-ECAC three of the last four weeks. The rest of the Engineer's front wall is only adequate, while the linebackers are largely inexperienced. The R.P.L 1 secondary contains three veterans who we1:e riddled by Ken Pearce last year. This year, they have been quite vulnerable on short patterns. The garnet enter the contest as a distinct favorite, with a · . t winning attitude bordering on overconfidence. RP.T. has shown, however, that they are capable of good football, and if 1 . ~ not for two bad quarters, they could be 4~0. The Gamet must contain LaMore if they are to . 1 'l stop the Engineer offense, and 1 must get another fine effort From the .offensive line to break the game open. Vol. 98 ' To h Harriers Fall to Hobart; Moekel Leads 2-1 Frosh Student ·Manker Mon ·. plans of a student lead( tt)f the en governmemt ' Along w · Shllman, by Paul Forbes The varsity cross-country team goes after its first victory today against traditional rival RPI at home. This meet could make the season for the rebuilding Garnet. Coach Coleman thinks the squad has a \real good chance\ of beating the Engineers. Hopes rest on the recovered Terry McManus, consistent Myron Fribush, Joe Burgess, Jolm Braham, and Dick Cooperwasser. These five comprise the point getters. Tuesday at Hobart the team dropped their nineteenth straight by the score of 25-31. The meet was highlighted by the return to form of Terry McManus. McManus placed fifth overall to take second on the team to Myron Fribush. Joe Burgess Dick Cooperwasser, and Jorn Braham also placed sixth, seventh and ninth respectively. One of the major hopes for next year's team is transfer student Paul Summer. In the two meets so far Summer has placed third on the team and fourth. FROSH SPLIT The frosh cross-country team split two decisions this week. On Tuesday they swamped the Hobart yearlings by the perfect score of 15-47. Placing the first six men, the freshmen lead by Bryant MoekeL In winning his second meet in a row, Moekel won by over a m.inute. Following him in order were Dave Rice, Paul Forbes, Tom Klinkok, Larry Thorn ton, and Keith Jamba. The third meet in three days proved to be the reckoning for the frosh as they dropped a 25-32 decision to Williston. Bryant Moekel once again lead the way with his third win in a row. The fro sh end their endurance test schedule for thw eek with a home meet today against RPL The contest looks like a tossup and a strong test for the squad. A GENIUS AT WOOUY THINKING $16. - 16.98 Such is the Proprietor, and proud of it. In sweaters of lamb's woollen, none have thought longer and with greater concentra- tion than he. One solution shown. Others to be seen at the Gentleman's convenience. Open Th11rs. 'til 9 ' ~ive·man cc disband the 1 n.ter-frat , ~n ter-residen' referendum within a mor Mr. Man1 '· \:'more re ,, ,, . ,, ! · government\ overall plan 1 effort by the · \acuity g• government.' He said '![O:OSIS1t111g of ounci s n ter-fratern Sp Pre the e plan They me let, Wil nderwood, department : Mr. Still thought it plans quiet were made.\ \ \There's efficiency a ' added. \We i.mmediate 1 efficiency. I not be infri1 explained. ~ubmitted fc Concerne previously t Stillman saic \or reorgani than we thi1 to wait.\ 4;., Phase I o will be disc the student next week, \'\asic elemer . , i ~. I 1. Th Interfrate r! nter-reside1 tlisbanded ~ term. I • I :~- \ ) ; 2. One ~ving unit, freshmen d every 35 oJ 1 be elected t• '\.errn. The the first tir January. 3. A frat ~et up to ' rushing con Senators ~residents. Fl Voting Union for : will elect It Tuesday, l Freshrr for either : secretary, l• up peti Activities . Novembet The pe ·[ fifty sign . Friday, N< . Voting . . College.

) \A Causa Persa Parole . Assai\ D • • • orm1tor1es Are For Sleeping Founded at Union College 1877 11..-----------------~----------------~~~~~~--------------------~~==~~ ~ ~;~~ 1 Vol. 98 No. 8 SCHENECTADY, N.Y.,OCTOBER. 22, 1968 P'RI,CE TWENTY CENTS ddled by [his year, ulnerable e •contest , with a !ering on PJ. has they are tll, and if ers, they net must y are to :nse, and 1e effort to break •. 'i'. Leaders Propose Major College Government Revision o meets ed third ry team •eek. On ed the perfect the first lead by iling his Moekel n.inute. ~r were :s, Tom m, and .·ee days 1ing for opped a 7 illiston. ain lead ?rin in a their for thw t today ;t looks mg test \ Manker, StiUman Expose Plan To Consolidate SC, IFC, UIC ' 'l by Jeff Browne . Student body President Rusty · 'Manker Monday evening disclosed the plans of a five-man committee of student leaders for the reorganization tt)f the entire system of school governmemt \from the trustees down.\ Along with Vice-president Jim Stillman, Manker explained his ' '\ive-man committee's intention to disband the present Student Council, I n.ter-fraternity Council and . ~nter-residence Council by use of a I referet:~dum of the student body · within a month. Mr. Manker outlined plans for a .• · {'more representative student government\ as phase I of a two phase overall plan to eliminate duplication of effort by the students, and to \parallel ·' \acuity government to student government\ He said the committee, also nsisting of Danny Aronzon, Student ouncil secretary; Dan Mead, Inter-fraternity Council President; and ce Spallholz, Inter-residence ouncil President met four times 4. An independent committee would be set up comsisting of the Independent Senators as well as interested independents from the general student body. 5. The executive committee would consist of the preset:J.t Student Council officers and two committee chairmen. Stillman said there would be at least one meeting to discuss Phase I and suggest changes. If necessary, there will be more. After the final draft is agreed upon, there will be referendum of the student bodv. President Manker said he will travel to Colgate University Wednesday evening to discuss the proposals with student leaders there. He said Colgate has recently implimented the same system. Manker and Stillman suggested several reasons for the proposed change: they said it would \eliminate duplication of efforts, parallel faculty government to student _govern~e~t, provide more representatwn o~ hv:ng units and improve commumcatwn bet we en students and their representatives.' (continued on page 3) '2(o DORM. SENATORS )<. oFF CAMPUS Sf.t.JA\roRS ) ( 1 t, ... ~ ... i 1\'.5 ~\\\\I\'' stude~~h 1 \' Hoose. PRE.S. 1 {w\\1 nJ vote. In ~<~\»~) r------1 ' C.OLUC.Ii 1 I __ ------ ~t'OI.IM. 1-· ,(.fft~,.!~·!.!-'~~ ·- ::::_,_ --, I d~eor'!\\'zccl • IF'c.e<llnt I I Go.,tmMUI't I I I •(Ph<1!o!!.ll) , I ,_ -- -~--- I Student Council leaders' conception of new social government Designs Revealed Simultatteously by Bruce Husten Plans to revamp the entire system of government at Uniot:J. College were revealed last night when two seperate student groups, the Committee for Reorganization of Union College's Government and a trio of Resident Advisors p11t forth proposals that were, for the most past, carbon copies of one another. The R.A.'s, seniors Stu Rubin and Neal Gordon and junior Ed Valentine, said they have thought since last year of trying to reorganize the system of government here. According to Rubin, Student Council President Rusty Manker was contacted by Gordon last week to inquire whether the Council had taken any steps to revamp the system. And, Rubin said, Gordon was in no uncertain terms told by Manker that \something\ was being done about the situation, but that it was of no concern to Gordon. the past month to develop finite plans for reorganization. They met with Professors Robert , William Daniels and James , all of the political science department as advisors. Mr. Stillman said the committee thought it was necessary \to keep plans quiet until definite proposals were made.\ Anti-Coed Committee Revealed As Individual Expounding View Union Students To Hear Thoughts Of Black Muslim Manker emphasized to Concordy last night that the Committee for Reorganization of Union College's Government is a group of students and faculty in no way connected with Union's Student Council. The R. A trio, in any case, undertook the task of creating a new structure of government on their own, and last night they brought their proposal to Corcordy offices for publication in this issue. · t. \There's a fine line between efficiency and democracy,\ Stillman added. \We felt we had to sacrifice immediate democracy for immediate efficiency. In the end, democracy will not be infringed upon at all,\ Stillman . explained. \The proposals will be ' f(ubmitted for referendum.\ Concerned that the issue was not previously taken to Student Council, Stillman said that the existing methods · ·•,; \or reorganization would take \longer than we think the students would like to wait.\ \1 Phase I of the overall reorganization , will be discussed at a convocation of ~ the student body called by Manker next week, Stillman said_ Here are the \;asic elements of the proposal: 1. The Student Council, t. . • I. Interfraternal Council and the rLnter-residence Council would be uisbanded as of the end of the Fall term. ! • I .,;.') ( •. 2. One representative from each ~ving unit, including fraternities and freshmen dormitories as well as for every 35 off-campus residents, would be elected to a Student Senate late this ~rm. The Senate would convene for the first time when school resumes in January. 3. A fraternity committee would be ~et up to deal with matters such as rushing consisting of the 16 fraternity Senators and the 16 fraternity ~residents. FROSH ELECTIONS '- Voting machines will be used at Union for the first time as freshmen ! will elect their class officers on It Tuesday, November 12. · Freshmen interested in running for either president, vice-president, secretary, or treasurer should piek ~·up petitions in the Student Activities office beginning Friday, November l. The petitions, requiring at least ·[fifty signatures, will be due on Friday, November 8. . Voting will take place in West . ·, College. In contradiction to the implications of its very name, Union's \Committee Against Coeducation\ consists of one lone senior who said yesterday the one circular he did distribute was intended not to influence other opinions, but rather to voice his own. \I respect the opinions of the students here,\ said Bob Barandes, senior economics major from Eastchester, N_Y., who is the Committee Against Coeducation_ Females Add Nothing Barandes returned to Union this fall having spent his junior year at University College in London, where, he claims, the female members of his philosophy, history, and English courses had nothing enlightening to add. •'The points made by the females,\ Barandes said, \;ue things already assumed by the males.'' Barandes emphasized he is not against coeducation in general but said Union is a unique case and he doesn't think the college would profit by the presence of females. ''Union is unlike schools such as Dartmouth and Colgate,\ Barandes argued, \in that they are totally isolated. Our social situation here, with the nearness of Russell Sage, Skidmore, and Albany State, makes us an attractive school because on campus there are all males but within a short distance there are plenty of gir Is.\ Statistics Deceiving He described the Memorial Chapel meeting of several weeks ago to discuss coeducation as being \very one-sided.\ He claimed also that the statistics sited at that meeting were deceiving. Prof. Carl Niemeyer, chairman of the faculty committee on coeducation, at that time cited a study made by Princeton University which disclosed that only 4.7 per cent of 5,000 desirable high school seniors who were polled would choose a small male or female college over any other kind of institution. Barandes argues that many of the students polled did not specify they would consider going only to coeducational schools_ He said too that because of Union's unique social and geographic situation it can afford to remain an all-male institution, while most others can not. And, by doing so, according to Barandes, Union would become even more unique and attract the very best of the students who prefer all-male schools. No Future Plans Barandes said he has no plans to pursue the Committee Against Coeducation any further_ He said there were offers to organize a formal committee but that to do so was not his purpose. When asked why he did not sign the circular personally, Baran des replied, \Look at it. I did.\ \I don't see your name here,\ this reporter answered, carefully scrutinizing the mimeographed flier. \Weill had intended to,\ Barandes quipped. by Len Simon A defense which came through in the key situations, led by Steve Ciesinski's three interceptions, saved Union football from the abhorent fate of losing to RPI. The Engineers should be credited with a great comeback, a fine mental attitude in poor weather conditions, and a sharp passing game. The Garnet, who won 24 to 14, can be credited with winning despite playing an unimpressive game, the mark of many good teams. Coach George Flood's eleven upped its record to 3-1, and strengthened the likelihood of the first winning season on the gridiron since 1956. Also on the positive side, senior fullback Joe James gained 64 years to break the alltime Union career rushing record. The punting of Ron McAvoy was superb, considering the mud, as he often put RPI deep in their own territory. Ciesinski's three thefts {continued on page 4) Dethroned World Boxing Champ Muhammed Ali (Cassius Clay) will deliver a speech to Union Students and the Schenectady public Thursday night at 8 p.m. Union students desiring to hear Ali. should be in Memorial Chapel no later than 7:30, according to a spokesman for The Political Forum, sponsor of the event. Ali is expected to arrive on campus earlier in the afternoon and will meet with members of the Big Brothers Program. His speech Thursday evening is expected to center around the Black Muslim Movement and Ali's current legal problems concerning his iudictment for refusing to be inducted into the armed forces. Nearly simultaneously, however, Manker and Council Vice-president Jim Stillman furnished Concordy with their attempts to revamp the system. And not surprisingly, the remedies produced by one faction were nearly quplicated by the other. Rubin's plan ends with the following raison d'etre which, it becomes obvious, is applicable to Manker's proposal as well: \The plan,\ Rubin writes, \provides for defined constituencies, more responsive representation; better communications from and to the student body; a forum for all students to air their views and carry out ideas; a method for successful referenda; greater participatory democracy and continuity of student interests and problem solving through the standing committees.\ Cheerleader captain Mark Sweeney pondel\s outcome of RPI Homecoming game during half-time break.

Epistles ol .Joy to· the Editors R E: u N I 0 N IIIIICIIIIIIIIIIIICIIIIIIIIIIIIDIIIIIIIIIIIICIIIIIIIIIIIII:IIIIIIII,., IJ Mixing Politics .. , Garnet As Art We regret that we could not print the following letter in last Friday's issue due to space problems. It should be noted that Prof. Curtis' letter was ~eceived before the letter printed m the last issue criticizing the Gwmet and in no way was designed to be a r~sponse to that letter .---Ed. To The Editor: May I express through your column my profound admiration of the new Garnet, and deep gratitude to all who contributed so hugely. It is significant that the Union contributors had such generous collaboration from others. For this issue is bout the world we live in first, and Union second. Far from down-grading Union thereby, it recognizes what progress the College has already made to relate campus living to the world, and it also challenges the Union household to do a lot more of this. If I were a member of the graduating Class of •68, l would be proud to be represented by such an issue. One's years at Union, for faculty and staff as much as for students, are wasted if regarded as preparation - for life or for professional advancement when they must be life itself. To the thought that this Garnet ain't what it used to be, the answer today is, \What is? And why should it be?\ Last but not Qlonror Publ1sh~d Tuesday ~d Fr1day dur- ing thf\. school year b\ tht> Student Body or Un10n College. Schenectady N.Y. N at10nal AdvertiSing Repre- sentat 1ve: Nat 1onal Educ at 1onal AdvertiSing Serv1ce. Inc., College Publishers Represe-ntata\e, 360 Le'xangton Avenue. N.Y. C. least, tllis Garnet is a living work of art; where preaching fails, this production of visual and verbal truth speaks out, If it had a Title on the Door, it would be, \Oh Say, ~an You See?\ H's a timely question. Edgar Curtis, Chairman Department of the Arts Pro & Con Co-ed To The Editor: The Explorer rub-group of the Boy Scouts of America have announced after a single sex history of 58 years, their intention to admit girls, i.e. \go co-ed\ beginning Jan. 1, 1969 (New York Times - Oct. 18. 1968.) Where, I ask, lies Union's intention after one-hundred seventy three years? Let us begin to explore. Sincerely, Neal J. Gordon Representative-at· Large ACC Dear Mr. Editor: At the present time, Union College is emerging from a coco~n o.f passivity and is feebly steppmg mto a new role as a first class institution of intellectual endeavors ... However, in the middle of this phenomenal success an ignomineous segment of' the college community under the title \change\ has proposed another way of dealing with apathy and passivity, .. lf girls were admitted to Union College the decades of Edttonal Ofhce. Old Gym. Umon College. Publ1catton O£hce. Whtte· hurst Pnnttng & Btnd1ng Co., Inc .. 416-418 Fifth Ave .. Troy. 235·4450. Entered 1n the Sl'henectady Post Ofhce as Second Class Mad Matter. Subscnpt10n 20¢ a copy; $6 a year dt-llvered anywhere 1n the United States. SENIOR BOARD D. Peter Drotman '69 .......... 346-8614 ............ Co-Editor in Chief Jeffrey C. Browne '69 ......... 346·9973 ............ Co-Editor in Chief Richard Lewis '70 ............. 346-1932 ............. Business Manager William Ouzer '71 ............. 377·8613 .............. Managing Editor AUen Gartner '71 .............. 377-8613 . .. .. . .. .. .. ..... News Editor Paul A.ndrews '71 ....................................... Features Editor LeonardSim on 70 ...................................... Sports Editor Paul Farnham '70 ..................................... Associate Editor Alan Klein '69 ............................................ Copy Editor JUNIOR BOARD Richard Kramer '71 ....................................................... Photography Editor Henry Fein '71 ........................................................ Associate Sports Editor Peter Weingold '71 ................................................ Associate Features Editor Alan Cohen '71. ................................................... Assistant Features Editor Michael Sw~sky '70 ........................................ National A.dvertising Manager Jon Brunswtck '70 ....................................................... Distribution Director Carl Gold sand '70 ......................................................... Circulation Manager Larry Rothblum '70 ................................................... Subscription Manager Jerry Lev me '?!. ................................................. Local A.dvertising Manager Jeff B irn '71 ....................................................... Local A.dvertising Manager VROOMAN'S Beer - Groceries Cold Cuts - Pastries Magazines 200 NOTT TERRACE FR 7-9834 CERCONE'S ATLANTIC STATION Finest Gasoline In Schenectady Guaranteed Service 711 NOTT ST. 377-9866 THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeats from all over the world. 406 STATE ST. DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott Street Open Daily 1 0 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to 1 A.M. achievement would soon come to an end. Union men would not travel out of the Schenectady area ... ·Please men of Union do not sell your college down the river of facult~ in~tigated conformity and medwcnty for the rninof conveflience of being able to be around women. To the Editor: Thank You, Allan Page Class of '69 The petition introduced by Paul Andrews at last Tuesday night's sophomore class meeting is a dangerous threat to an objective examination of the popularity of instituting co-education at Union. An individual's expressing his sentiments on this vital question to the Board of Trustees is highly commendable. However, putting words in other people's mouths is simply unfair. Mike Wilensky '71 Student Council To The Editors: The Student Council, after being severely reprimanded by a freshman finally passes a resolution supporting the admission of, of all things, girls. Then the heirs of Robespierre and the like urge the student body to show concern during election week by wearing an arm band. It doesn't matter whether one is concerned even with the election of the Vegetarian Party candidate, so long as one is concerned. And the Daughters of the American Revolution advise that Union is a good place to send your son if you don't want him to become radical. Keep in there, gentlemen. When the Richard Nixons of the present generation die off, it is comforting to know that there will be men like yourselves to replace them To The Editors: Gary Abramson '69 Since my remarks to the Student Council last Monday ?ight played at least some part m the Council's reconsideration of the Coeducation issue I was dismayed that Concordiensis JAY BILLIARD LOUNGE 167 JAY ST. SPECIAL RATES FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS Bring Your Dates Free Parking In Rear MIDTOWN BARBER SHOP All Haircuts done: by Appoint- ment from Tues. thru Fri. Ap- pointments not necessary Sat. 515 UNION ST. 377-4010 Gershon's Sandwiches Cold Cuts Salads Open Tues. - Sun. B A.M. to 9 P.M. Ph: EX 3-06171600Union St. seized this abou·t face as a reason for immediate dissolution of the Council. All organizations could stand improvement. But because these organizations have failed in specific instances, there is no ground to disband them. lnaam•mma•au•••mm•amnamlna• by P a ul A n d r e w s I, too, favor a complete revision of student government. Union would certainly be a be.tter place with a more representative student government, but we cannot stop work on other matter of importance while we restructme. Sincerely yours, Walter A. Spencer Jr. '72 Anti -Concord y To The Editor: With all the zeal of a crusading newspaper demanding reform, Concordiensis has called for the \immediate dissolution\ of the Student Council. While I realize that you have desperately sought a cause to champion, I must comment on your most recent blithering editorial .... The reading of Concordiensis has increasingly become a test of endurance ... , I am still waiting for a highly positive editorial advocacy fo the goals of The Community, which the Student Council overwhelmingly endorsed as an asset to student government. I surmise that the Editors may be incapable of a great deal of original thinking, but they at least should be able to quote correctly Ralph Waldo Emerson. Emerson did not say, \A foolish inconsistency is the hobgobblin of little minds.\ He said, \A foolish consistency is the hobgobblin of little minds.\ It's certainly not Emerson's fault that the error makes the entire editorial fatuous and meaningless. Ed Rundell, '71 Perhaps Cassius Clay will comment during convocation Thursday on the recent suspension of Tommie Smith and John Carlos from the U.S. Olympic squad. Smith and Carlos, who were suspended for showing a black power salute an_d. refusing to acknowledge the ra1smg of the .American flag, hav~. bee~ chastised for mixing pohtlcs w1th sports, which is not supposed to be done in the Olympic Games. Meanwhile how is the team from South Africa doing? Talented thanes scops, minstrels and musiker~ should submit their names and address to their resident advisor or fraternity representative to audition for the Class of '71 talent show Fall Weekend. Auditions begin tonight. You may think your talent is not worth exposing to public view, but remember: Spiro T. Agnew got his start in a talent show. Besides, it's worth free tickets to see Judy Collins. BORN: To gerbils Snow White and Pussy Willow Bennett nine (count '.em - 9) baby gerbil~ October 14 in the residence of Mark Kellett, 110 Fox, who is taking care of them for Economics Prof. William B. Bennett, presently at Concord College. HALF DEAD: Most of the student body, with an assortment of colds, flues, sore throats (no pun intended) and other common household ailments. Now, freshmen, is will cost you $5 if you don't pre-register for winter and spring courses ... a little more exciting! with your faculty adviser sometime nex.t week (October 28 through November 1). The. friendly Office of The Registrar.·! ·\ admonishes frosh to make an appointment to see their advisers with department secretaries. Law Sehool Students: Prof. Eugene Smeth of Southern Methodist Univer.sity Law.' .. School in Dallas will be here Friday. Y:ou can make an appointment to see him by ·. signing a schedule posted in' 1 · Prof. WHliam Daniels' door Room 216A in the Sociai Sciences Building. Another in a series of talks on · ·. \Conflict in International Politics\ will be presented by , the Union-Skidmore,!\. International Relations Club at 7:30p.m. tomorrow in the Hale House Lounge. A.F. Ahmad, Counsel-General of Pakistan will i · venture \Beyond the Kashmir War.\ The Ski Club will meet at 4:30 p.m. temorrow in SS014 for persons interested in Nordic and Alpine c0mpetition. J Bill Ouzer has already begun work on his senior thesis, entitled: \Spiro T. Agnew: The Myth Behind the Myth. A study > of his political savvy: If the shoe fits, put it in your mouth.\ J Mrs. Martin is recovering from an operation in Ellis Hospital. Hopes for a speedy , recovery t0 the president's wife .. '' Been wondering where English Prof. William M. Murphy is these days? In Dublin .. working on a book somehow involving William Butlet Yeats. He'll be back winter term. You'd never know it judging . from last weekend, but turkey season ended October 13. O£N. BREW.CO., ROCM •• N.Y t . ... Gil .. Ahm A. of on \Beyor at an lm Club meeti p.m. in Hal This is; talks o lnternation involving li Mr. A1 Dacca, Ea: at Calcuttl called to Honourabl' Inn, Lon< judicial ser later tr: Depart men then Govt In 194 independe for ser Governme appointed London. I Foreign S( served su• missions the Hague Before Minister, ( York, Mr High Com in Calcutt: SKI Weeken for ski school b structio: guired. Exceliei SE Write o Nt Leb~

,_., -rAND U F'C)R Frosh !Evaluate Rushing 0 'Dwyer Tells Work force About Democratic Confusion II rews , I adviser (October 1). The. Registrar.· 1 ·\ make an advisers aries. Prof. Southern Law,. .· be here ! an . him by ·, in' 1 · door, Social talks on rnational by , .. Club ai the Hale . Ahmad, will i · Kashmir meet at in SS014 in Nordic ) begun thesis, The A study> shoe J recovering in Ellis a speedy . wife .. where Dublin .. somehow tlet Yeats. it judging ' but turkey 13. OCH •• N.Y (!\M€RI(~ 1 .WALLACE ,:o ~ E'SI 0£N J t,VALL~c..£ ..5 DfC.L..I A)£, Harris Ginsberg After almost two weeks of rushing, Union College freshmen have found many interesting items in the sixteen campus fraternities. There are also many who have not found anything to excite them. There seem to be four basic concepts about the rushing system from the class of '72: \too long\ \too short\ \too much deception\ and, an '\overwhelmiag amoulilt of beer\ ... Some freshmen feel that they spend too much time evaluating a system which. is foreign to them. When confronted about a solution, one freshman suggested that the IFC publish a printed leaflet containing an unbiased evaluation for each fraternity with its costs .and personality, including a resume' of the growing independent (i.e. do your own thing) system. Jl J ~ 'IN .,-HE: 1 \- PoLL 5 0 ther Freshmen maintain that rushin.g should extend over the full length of the year. In this manner, each freshman would have a chance to visit with all the brothers, and then evaluate and compare each house. Ahmud Booked Mr. A.F. Ahmad, Consul General of Pakistan, will speak on \Beyond the Kashmir War\ at an International Relations Club meeting tomorrow at 7:30 p.m. in Hale House. This is the first ·of a series of talks on \Conflicts in International Politics.\; the first involving India and Pakistan. Mr. Ahmad was born in Dacca, East Pakistan, educated at Calcutta University and was called to the bar by the Honourable Society of Gray's Inn, London. He joined the judicial service in Bengal and was later transferred to the Department of Labor of the then Government of India • In 194 7, on attainment of independence, Mr. Ahmad opted for service under the Government ofPakistan and was appointed Labor Attache in London. He joined the Pakistan Foreign Service in 1950 and has served successively in Pakistan missions in London, Shillong, the Hague, Tehran and Moscow. Before assuming his post as Minister, Consul General in New York, Mr. Ahmad was Deputy High Commissioner for Pakistan in Calcutta. SKI INSTRUCTORS Weekend positions available for skiers to instruct high school boy's and girls. Prior in- struetion experience not re- guired,. Good compensation. Excellent ski facilities. SHAKER VILLAGE SKI GROUP Write or Call: Shaker Road, New Lebanon, N.Y. Lebanon Springs (N.t'.) 7-1255 'It·~ Young Detns \The key to New York State and possibly the entire national election is the upstate New York are a, more specifically the tri-city area. If Humphrey and Muskie can carry this section they will carry all of New York State and chances for a national victory will be excellent.\ These were the words of Steve Simmons, National Executive Director For The Student Coalition For Humphrey-Muskie as he addressed Union College Young Democrats last night. Simmons flew from Washington for what he described as \'this critical meeting.\ Simmons emphasized ·\the important role that Union students can play in this campaign.\ Besides outlining plans for doorbell and phone-call canvassing, a candlelight parade, and preparations for Muskie's upcoming speech in the tri- cities area, Simmons also initiated what will be \a Humphrey- -Muskie counter demonstration\ to Nixon's October 28 speech in Albany. Small Talk Unnecessary A gfeat majority of those interviewed considered the fraternity members to be '\pseudo-personalities\ (i.e. putting on airs). \Small talk is unnecessary\ because it tends to overshadow how a fraternity actually feels towards the visiting freshmen. \It's really tough when you don't know a n y b o d y\ , mourned an unknown frosh. \How can a freshman rember anybody when T ale11t Show Acts are being sought for the talent show that the Sophomore Class plans tD sponsor on Friday, November 8, the Friday of Fall Week-end. The show will take place in Memorial Chapel at 7:30. Auditions will be held at 7:3 Wednesday night <tt as yet undetermined place. Those interested in trying out should contack their resident ad visors or fraternity sophomore representatives or Don Kessler at Phi Sigma Delta, 372·9772. Kessler said that the organizers of the show are interested in \anything from comical sketches to hard rock.\ He added that the show is intended to be \variety-oriented.\ He envisaged \as diverse a show as we can get.\ PEGGY'S RESTAURANT Special 1 Q<r;, D 1scount For Un1on Students On $10 Meal Tickets 428 STATE ST. Coli 346-9560 DAMBROSE CLEANERS 1519 VAN VRANKEN AVENUE SHIRTS 22C AS YOU LIKE THEM STARCH NO STARCH BUTTONS SEWED ON , \! PANTS ... 49~ WHY PAY MORE SAVE •• SAVE •• SAVE he meets twenty brothers in two minutes? It's very difficult. It's very harrowing. In fact, it's a \haphazard\ experience.\ S a i d one freshmaN \fraternities are unnecessary cliques. They tend to become so independent that students sacrifice school unity and spirit.\ Anoth.er basic concern is that the houses \ought to change .their names\ because most freshmen \can't read or remember them\. Even with freshmen dissensiofl, there is one positive factor that draws fraternity-anxious uaderclassmen: \cheap entertainment\ (i.e. beer. .. ). In the opinion of many freshmen connoisseurs, a fratem.ity is ... \thirst- quenching\ \great\, \it gets you dates, gets you drunk\ and, a fraternity is \out of sight.\ Another freshman said, '\Fraternities are security. A brother can be sure that when he takes his date back to the house, someone will try to steal her. That, of course boosts a girl's ego, making her secure.\ Those freshmen who balk at the tradition of rushing will inevitably \hang-in there\ and find that one, great house that fulfills their \impossible dream.\ Note Sene CONCORDIENSIS realizes that most of the students and faculty have trouble reaching the newspaper with items of opinion, praise, infonnation and disatisfaction, not necessarily in that order. But we study on off-Concordy nights. So, here's how to get in touch with this newspaper with noteworthy items: Letters to the editors, news stories and sports items are accepted anytime before 4 p.m. on Monday and Thursday in the Concordiensis mailbox in the Student Activities Office. They can also be submitted to Concordiensis offices in Bronner House till 7 p.m. on Monday and Thursday evenings. News stories can be telephoned into Concordiensis by calling Monday or Thursday evening before 8 p.m. The number is 377-8613. The number for the sports department is 346-8614. Or, to express furious criticisms of vital urgen~y, call one of the editors. Phone numbers are on the masthead. Paul O'Dwyer, Democratic candidate for U.S. Senator, told his student workers in the Capitol District at a press confereNce last Saturday that the purpose of the Republican Party is to clean up \the mess the Democratsmtde (in national office).\ He went ()11' to say that because the \Republicans are bankrupt of ally progressive ide~s, ~~ey are SG()fl swept out of off1ce. Speaking to a group of forty-five workers on the question of a guaranteed national income, O'Dwyer said \[ favor something like that\ but emphasized .the necessity of the involvement of industry and Speaking on Vietnam, O'Dwyer said, \I think everybody would applaud a cessation of the bombing.\ He pointed out the fact that his opponent, Jacob Javits had voted for the \Bay of Tonkin\ resolution in the Senate. O'Dwyer who favor~ a cease fire under the auspices of Secretary General U Than t, scored the receNt rebuke United States Ambassador George Ball gave U Thant on his latest peace proposal Student Senate the use of private funds to solve (Continued from page l) the needs of the pnor. Teacher's Strike \Each Senator will have a 0' Dwyer declined to constituency,\ Manker added. comment on the Ocean He said more details ofPhase Hill-Brownsville conflict and the I would be forthcoming. New York Ci~y teachers' strike Phase II, consisting of the because \Ws still under faculty side of reorganization, negotiation.\ Hedid say that the would take much longer to \children of black communities impliment, Manker indicated. It are not getting an education.\ would consist of redefining 0' Dwyer fa v 0 r s the student-faculty committees and dec en tr alizatio n of school the replacement of the present districts because \integrated All-College Council with a education didn~t work and steering committee, as well as couldn't work physically.\ reo r g ani zing Fa cui ty 0 n the Supreme Court, Government. A new committee O'Dwyer said that Nixon's plan consisting of Student leaders and to pack the Court should be faculty members will be formed resisted. When reminded that to make proposals about Phase Nixon had not suggested such a . ..::..: 11 .:..· ----------- packing maneuver, O'Dwyer answered that it was Franklin Roosevelt that tried it in the thirties and it ditl not work then either. O'Dwyer said that President Eisenhower had given the country its best Court in recent years and directly credited Dr. Milton Eisenhower and Sherman A.dams for this achievement. The Warren Court has \'merely applied the con sti tu tion.\ Tile PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP 262 Saratoga Road MA YFA.IR SHOPPING CENTER At the Sign of th.e Red Neon Pipe TUES. tluu SAT. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. also THURS. and Fill.: 7 to 9 PM SCOTIA., N.Y. Phone 399-1630 ------------------------ Now's The Time To MARRY ME Jackie's at the altar •••• How About Y au. Signed The Greek Buy your Wedding Ring or En• gagement Ring at Maurice B. Graubart & Sons Jewelers, 166 I Jo, 5<. IF YOU WANT THE TRADITIONAL L.OOI<.,. LOOK FOR THE TRADITIONAL. LABEL I \THE GREAT PLAINS No need to get fancy when you have 65% Dacron@/35% cotton \Endura·Press\ oxford in 8 \in\ colors. With Soil-release. DAVES MEN'S & BOYS f 453 State St. Schnectady, N.Y. • DA~ROI'i FOLYESTER 1'. OuPONf S RE:G. T.M. Golden Vee· (XTI-?A TAPtR 1·• DROP witlt DACHON

Concordy Sports page 2 Letters (Conti~~~~J.~sk 1 L,~~~.~~y f~r 'Defense As Gridders Dump Engineers brought his season total to Ost.rander to the visitors' · seven, and it was his defensive three-yard line. James went in work that helped the offense get for the score from there, and untracked. Jim Sabella converted to make it The greatest contributing 7-0 with 5:29 remaining. factor to the victory was the The teams then traded punts entire defensive effort. Time and and mistakes for almost a again, mistakes gave RPI golden quarter into the Gamet again opportunities tu take the lead, started to move, but were halted but the defense rose to the at the RPI 19. Sabella booted a O(Ca~ion t.!adl tillll.! tu snuff uut ~()-yarJ field gPal on fuurth the driVl' Alsn, defensive hack down to make the score I 0-0. Dave Gray appeared to have put despite the fact that an RPI the game on ice by scooping up lme1n~n detlected the kick just a blocked field goal attempt and after 1t left the ground. sprinting 90 yards for a score to RPI DRIVES put the Gamet out in front 17-0. . RPI then took the ensuing Defense has now been key in all ktckoff and put. together a three victories this season. sustamed march of 62-yards to Offense, however, was the Garnet three. where they another story. The one big were stopped dead un three headache was five lost fumbles. attempts from up close. It was This alone could have been thc second fine goal line stand cnuugli tu ~poi! J guuJ uffL·miw fm ( 1 nion in twn g:m1es RPJ effort. hut ti·JCre was no such elected to go for the field goal effort to spoil. The offense un fuurth down, but Steve appeared to lose all competitive Smith\::. kick was blocked by the edge after getting out to the center of the Union line. It early I7 point bulge, and didn't seemed to lay on the wet turf really get fired up enough to for a short time before Gray move the ball despite the fact scampered through a crowd of that the Engineers trailed later onlookers, picked up several by only three points. Most of good blocks, and lugged the the blame must go to the pigskin all the way for a score physical effort and mental that could have demoralized the attitude of the offensive unit, Engineers and closed out the but at least a part of the contest. Sabella added the point problem originated from sitting that made it 17-0, with ()Illy on a lead too early. The passing ~ h r e ~ . m i n u t e s be f o r e was abandoned far too early in mterm1sswn. the con test, allowing the RPI, however, struck back Engineer defense to solve the quickly, as quarterback Steve Garnet much too easily. LaMore hit speedster Rick Kelly Halfway through the first with a bomb for a 75-yard score. period, Ciesinski picked off his Gray had the last shot at him, first pass and brought it to the but couldn't bring him down RPI 43 to set up the first score with a diving tackle attempt at of the game. The drive took nine the Union thirty. The half ended plays, the highlight being an with the score 17-7. Booters Beaten by MIKE REGER In Saturday's game, the Garnet varsity soccer team dropped a 5·2 decision to a strong Middlebury team. Union's record for the season now stands at 3-2 with the most important week of the season coming up. During the first period against Middlebury. Union failed to gain possession of the ball in the Middlebury end in the first ten minutes, then dominated the offense during the second half of the period, but failed to score. The Panthers, however, scored a goal in each of the first two periods and led 2·0 at halftime. Union's first goal came in the third period on a shot deflected off a Middlebury defender. The score was credited to Jim Wilson, his sixth of the season. Middlebury also scored in the third period to gain a 3-1 advantage. The fourth stanza saw the Panthers chalk up two goals to the Garnet's one. Union's marker was scored by Bobby Dodd, with the assist going to Fred Mindlin. As expected, Middlebmy was a hustling club that capitalized on defensive mistakes by the Dutchmen to score on three occasions. According to coach Gary Brown, the Garnet played fairly well overall with the exception of a few \glaring defensive errors\. Mike Pitt played three quarters in the goal and gave an adequate P.erfonnance. Chris Cartsonis took over during the fourth period, his fust appearance of the season. This week will be a crucial one for the Garnet boosters. On Wednesday, the Dutchmen travel to Hobart. The Statesmen, with the help of some good freshmen, beat Alfred 6-1 but have lost to RPL Clarkson, and Harpur. The Clarkson match at home on Saturday will be a ket test for the Garnet. The Green Machine trou~c~? Unio~ 8-3 last year. dishing out a literal \physical beatmg . If Umon can get through this week with two victories the hooters will be in good shape for the last two weeks of the se~son, which include games with R.P.l., Colgate, Trinity, and Hamilton. 'For three Generations.' fhose Who Know ... Have been recommending - HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER 11 3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family\ 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY Jerry Ostrander (~hove) takes a h~nd~ff from Ken Pearce and is about to sweep right end, one of the few successful offensive plays for Umon m a 24-14 triumph over RPI led by tile defease. Steve Ciesinski (above right) wa~ the defensive star, inte~cepting three passes and setting up two sc::ores, while Ron McAvoy (below rtght) got off several boommg punts, and played well at linebacker. Overall, Union failed to as the Garnet will be way up for Fro· sh ·G·t;.d· Falls impress except on a few key Williams. Also the weather JC situations. If the squad manages nullifies much of the advantage to regain its edge, and again enjoyed by a better team, as it finds the proper combination of serves to even things out. The passing and running, the contest contest may also serve to wake may he written off as getting a up the team to the fact that no poor game out of the system, contest can be overlooked if without hurting the season's they expect to be the first un'ion record. RPI was shy-high for the squad in 12 years to win more contest,. which is expected, just than it loses. Frosh Soccer Split After an impressive 2-0 win over Williston last Wednesday Union's freshman soccer tea~ experienced a complete reversal of fonn, losing to Oneonta 2-1 Saturday afternoon. This leaves the squad with a 2-l-1 record. The Williston contest was marked by two picture-play goals. The first, the only one the . Garnet needed all afternoon, was· knocked in by Myles Richard after a beautiful header pass from Pierre Roumain at the II :53 mark of the first period. An insurance tally was added at I 2: 20 of the third, with Roumain getting the goal after beating the defenders to the ball. Richard and Ira Turret picked up assists on the score. The fullbacks played their best game against Williston, switching quite effectively. The trapping improved, and there was more midfield play. It was the defense, which looked like it was coming around after the game against ,_.EWEST Williston, that completely broke down against Oneonta. The fullbacks just couldn't get the ball out of the defensive end thus giving the opposing forwards two or three shots on goal every time. There were numerous mis-kicks, one of which resulted in a goal. Even though the Garnet had I8 shots on goal, few were good, and only Myles Richard was able to put the ball in the net. This gave the Garnet a 1-0 lead ta the half, but two goals by Oneonta in the second half gave them the win. The Dutchmen hope to get back on the right track today. as they face Northwood in an away game. Swimming Coach Robert Benson has announced the first swimming team practice will be held on Thursday, October 3 I, at 3:30 p.m. All those who have late classes should report by 5:00 that afternoon. LU~CH 715 Albany Street Specializing: - HOT DOGS WITH FAMOUS SA.UCE - DINNERS AND SANDWICHES - TAKE·OUT ORDERS - Union Student~ Favorite Spot - (Serving Schenectady Since 19211 by WALl' S.PENCER The fresh111en football team lost a disappeinting 18-14 decision to the Hobart frosh at Geneva Friday. 'The defeat was the second fo:~ the Garnet yeariings in tw1> starts. The first half was frustrating for both teams, as mistakes prevented either offensive unit from scoring u11tll Union's Rich Jaszcak caugllt a 27-yard pass from Pete Schillet for the score with only 1 :.2.> left in the half: The Garnet's touchdown drive started when r11iddle linebacker Bill Simon intercepted on the Union 43. Tile 57-vard drive took ten plays. · In the third I}Uarter, Hobart started to dorniJulte the game, as the Gamet line1nen weakened. The first score Vias a 42-yard pass play to the Statemen's split end. Another 40-yard pass set up a 3-yard buck for the score. Both times, Hailart failed to make two-poi11t conversions, and the third quarter ended with Hobart leading 12-7. The Statesm;e11: added a third touchdown ()n a six-yard counter early ill the fourth period, but orr ce again missed the two-pointe r. Late in the game, Schiller unleashed a 45-yard pass t() Ji£11 Niver for the second Gamet touchdown. Gross again a<lcled the extra point. The fr osh entertain the Rochester yearlir1gs Friday at 2:30 on Alexander Field. CHAJtLES OPTICIANS 604 lJn(on. St. FR 7'·12B3 Frames and Lenses Replaced Prescri1Ptio11s Fi lied r . . v. . . . ' _:;~· . . /· ··. : /:' .. ·· . ·. i -· :.::...:....:..:_ _ _,~ '1 Vol. ga N ··App \H's nc hate--iCs people tha told a c crowd last ' by the :Poli c j,ting Honorabl1 wisest blac a strorrg es of the race: \1 :because b~ arc differer place f()r c H a r ri e r s Fa l1 To Strong RPI 11 · States,\ demanding if you -won homela.nd.' 1,· by Paul Forbes The Garnet cross-country team, both varsity and frosh, suffered defeats at the hands of w~ll-balanc ed RPI squads\ · Fnday. The varsity thus failed to break its dual-meet losing streak · which now numbers 20. Th~ , frosh dropped to 2-2 for the season. The Engineers trounced the varsity harriers, 17-4I. Placing 1 the , first four runners spelled RPI s success. Myron Fribush and Joe Burgess ran together ., . most of the race, finishing fifth and sixth respectively. Overall, the performance was discouraging. The team has yet ' to jell as a unit. In order to stop the present long losing streak, the team must run unifonnly well. The key to success is closer 1 grouping of the point~getting group. MOEKEL !MPRESSI VE The frosh harriers ran well but were beaten by ~ well-balanced Engineer squad. ~ •. Bryan Moeckel continued his · sensational individual performances with his fourth 1 victory in five days for the G~rnet.. Paul Forbes placed thud, wtth Dave Rive sixth. T_he varsity once again hopes ~ to fmally break the skein when the squad travels to Hamilton tomorrow, while the frosh try to go above .5 00 this afternoon at ' Darrow. Acme Barber Shop 509 Union Street Experienced Barbers Nearest 1o Llnion ·College Students Ali sai< structun c give bl2ck~ for hundn labor.\ \No independer said. \VVe < ~Pa c \There West Paki: taken frm Jalll111U- K~ India tb.a1 taken a s1 with the forced a fi Speakir text, AJ Internati Pakisian' K a sltmi Consu1-Ge has sewe1 native Ian NewYo:rk Mr. All is a peace see the pe own futur I ike to ·Consul-( \Kas!Ullir not a Pakistan i a link. to for the i right to d \Ittdia' 51 A serie~ hundred d cash hit th ·.· On 'Sa1 ten sltirts about $2( , , .Langmore' Theta Del place in ·~~;;~;;;;~~~~~~~~;:~~~~~~~~~~~-~~::::::::::::::::::::::~~====================~ opposite e : ll · '· Bur~ar: Bryant's r West Coll Mo~.-Thurs. 7 A.M.-2 A.M. Fri.-Sat. 7 A.M.-4 A.M. Sun. 9 A.M.- 1 A.M. HAYSTACK MOUNTAIN SKI AREA, INC. WILMINGTON. VERMONT 05363 802-464-3311 Men's Shop Specialists in Collegiate Wear 514 State Sheet Park & Shop at Lt~~icy ette Free Parking 1 , · r portable t1 ·a stereo ~ The c!lse l city detec1 !,· Fifty-fc various ro West Coll from Rich ~ Dean 1 \If it's ca~ .do a.bo1 ~ considedn ':dorms- .,.;;_;~- .. -· .. -·

\A Causa Persa Parole· ·Assai\ N.EW STUDENT AID Rea•lations · Pag·e 3 Founrled at Union College 1877 Vol. 9a No. 9 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., OCTOBER 25, 1968 ., Applause Flatters Al~i; To es and frosh, e hands of I) 1,\ I squads\ failed to streak; , 20. The, ' for the the Placing 1 spelled Fribush together ., . · shing fifth was m has yet 1 to stop ng streak, uniformly ss is closer ~ int-getting But He Wa~~s Races Apart by 'Paul Andrews can call ours, discrimination: \Who ever heard of a \It's not the color white that we Ali touched upon his past, relating w-hite tornade?\ he quipped hate--ies the injustices of certain incidents ofdiscrimination against him coming.\ 1 h t h ~· M h d AI\ \Tornadoes are black--you can see 'em peop e t a w~ ·ate, u_ arne n: 1 after he had :gained Olympic boxing told a capac1ty Memonal Chapel . . . . crowd last night in a speech sponsored fame; and his .conversiOn to the Black by the :Political Forum. Muslim faith by Elijah Muhammed. Ci,ting \the teachings -of the Muhammed's teachings, that H?n or able Elijah Muh~~m~d--the \repression from whites deprived Wisest black man 'on ~.arth, Ah m~de blacks of freedom and equality, made a strong espousal for total separatiOn , Ali 'd \Th ' h 1 . d of the races \ sense, sa1· • . at s w y turne . ·'Integration won't work down the championship and millions ·:because by nature blaeks and whites of dollars--boxin ain't nothing arc different. America ,should give us a compared to what I'm doillg now,\ he place f()r ourselves here in the United said. States;~ he said. \We're not Ali advanced Muhammed's credo demanding territory in America--only that a black must \respect yourself if you won't allow us to return to our before you carr expect white people to homela.nd.\ respect you,\ in downplaying the Need Land reputed \black violence\ syndrome Ali said that the \white power created by \propaganda from the structure of the government\ should white power structure. We are making give blacks federal land \to repay us the power structure of our lives just by for hundreds of years of free slave moving around in your midst,\ he labor.\ said. \No one can be free and independent without some land,\ he said. ~'\Ve don't have one alley that we Ali drew applause and laughter for many of his remarks, especially those on subtle TV commercial Pakistani Presents Case on Kash1nir \There are many parts of East and West Pakistan that have been illegally taken from us by India. It is in the Jammu-Kashmir region of Northern India tl1.at the Moslems have finally taken a stand. A sense of frustration with the treatment of Moslems has forced. a firm stand in Kashmir.\ on the fence, deriving benefits from both sides and maintaining an international position of 'world Conscience',\ Mr. Ahmad said. \Pakistan on the other hand, is charting a definite course toward what is best for Pakistan, without regard to the desires ofworkd powers.\ Ali told the enthusiastic crowd which gave him a standing ovation, that he was \flatter.ed to be so accepted after publicity.\ so much RED CROSS SETS SIGHTS adverse ON LEUCOCYTES Joe Schwartz \A free keg of beer will go to the Living unit with the highest percentage of donors at the Student Council sponsored blood Bank,\ stated Denny Aronzon organizer of next week's blood bank. The blood bank will be held next Wednesday from 10:00-3:45 and Thursday from 11:00-4:45. No parental permission is necessary for donation, and the only requirement is that the donor be 18 years old. Everyone will get a free physical and there will be a physician on duty at all times. Top Cobleskill Aronzon pointed out that in last spring's drive there was a record 229 pints collected, \but this does not meet the potential of the school.\ He also said that last year, SUNY at Cobleskill, a school of Union's size, collected 344 pints and won a trophy for the school collecting the most blood, per capita, in the state. Aronzon is confident that this year Union will surpass that mark. Students interested in donating should sign up with their R.A. or fraternity president. PRICE TWENTY CENTS ALI SPEAKS: Muhammid Ali, dethroned boxing champ as he addressed crowd here Thursday night. Around Town VASSAR COLLEGE Saturday 8:30p.m. to 12m BENNINGTON COLLEGE Mixer Friday 10:00 p.m. to 4:00a.m. Carnpout on the grounds 8:00p.m. Israeli folk dancing 9:00p.m. Movie \Mahanagan\ Saturday 8:00p.m. Independent films \Relativity\ \Mass\ and \Arnulf Rainer\ ALBANY STATE Friday 8:30 Mixer 7:15 & 9:00 Movie \Arsonic and Old Lace\ Saturday 8:00 Hillel Mixer SKIDMORE COLLEGE Saturday 7:30 Movie, \Gentleman's Agreement,\ and discus- sion on ClarkStreet RUSSELL SAGE COLLEGE Student Government Weekend Friday 9:00 Dorm parties Saturday 1:30 Movie \Georgie Girl\ 3:00-4:00 Jugg Band at AR. 9:00-1:00 Dance at the Place, 191 2nd Street Sunday 4:00 Folk singing at E.P. Daley Bar PaperHiwaymen Arrested At Local Hi Schoo.l by Bart Harrington, Jr . Alan Ziegler and Richard Balagur, both 21, seniors here and editors of the underground newspapers Paper Highway were arrested Tuesday afternoon by Schenectady Police for allegedly loitering on Mont Pleasant High School grounds. The two have since been freed on $100 bail each. A hearing on the charge has been set for next Wednesday. )S/VE ran well, by a ~ squad. ~, his · Speaking from a carefully prepared text, A..F. Ahmad addressed the International Relations Club on Pakistan's position \Beyond the Ka sll.mir War.'\' Pakistan's Consul-General to the United States has sewed both in Russia and his · native land before taking the post in New York. \The danger today is that the rich countries may turn inward and build a barrier against the poor countries of the world.\ The Pakistani diplomat said that a critical world situation is developing as debtor nations are becoming increasingly more in debt, while their ability to repay the debts is decreasing. Community to ·Convene The two appeared on the high school grounds last Tuesday to distribute a handbill which advocated the reinstatement ofi'he Free Student, an underground newspaper published by Mont PleaSiU1t students and suppressed by the Mont Pleasand administration. According to Balagur, seven students were suspended from Mont Pleasant because of the opinions expressed in that newspaper. All seven subsequently apologized to the administration and were readmitted to their school. is fourth 1 Mr. Ahmad stressed that \Pakistan is a peace loving nation., would like to see the people of Kashmir decide their own future.\ Asked if Pakistan would 1 ike to annex Kashmir, the for the s placed hopes ~ when Hamilton try to 1 at ·Consul-General answered that \Kaslllllir as an indepeindent country is not a viable concept. However, Pakistan is not necessarily looking for a linlt to Kashmir. She is just asking for the indigent people to have the right to choose their own destiny.\ bers Rich and Poor \Ittdia's position is that of sitting STOLENI A series of thefts involving over six hundred dollars wortll of goods and ,cash hit the campus this past week. 1 On 'Saturday night three jackets, ten sll.ir1s and four sweaters worth ' about $200 were stolen from Larry , , ~Langmore's and Gary Adair's rooms in Theta Delta Chi. Tl1e robberies took place in two separate rooms at opposite ends of the hall. Bur~lars also struck at Mr. Paul Bryant's room on the first floor of West College over the weekend. A 1 , . r portable television and one speaker of ·a stereo worth over $300 were taken. The C!lse has now been turned over to city detectives. ,; !,· Fifty-four dollars was taken from various rooms on the fourth floor of West College, while $20 was; stolen , from Richmond earlier in the year. ) ~ Dean Richard Lucas commented, \If it's cash, there is. not much we can .do a. bout it.\ However he is ~.considering changing door locks in the i!9rm.s.= ... _. . According to Ahmad, Pakistan's response to the problem has been to stress regional collaboration for mutual aid. In 1964 Iran, Turkey, and Pakistan carne together in Regional Co-operation for Development. The success of R.CD. had been substantial. Fifty projects of joint purpose development have been agreed upon. Ahmad emphasized that it is Pakistan's continuing goal to \establish and further peace and stability in the teeming unrest of the Asian subcontinent.\ Steven Heller Larry Pedowitz, chairman of The Community, announced plans at a special Wednesday night meeting for a convention to be held on November 19, 20, and 21. The convention will meet for the purpose of \coming up with some new and constructive ideas\ for the college community. Pedowitz hopes that all those interested students, campus leaders, and faculty members will attend this convention which is planned to be Brackett Lecture Has HUD-1nan Robert C. Wood, undersecretary of housing and urban development, will speak at 8 p.m. Monday on\Urban Policies For Tomorrow\ in the auditorium of Union College's Social Sciep.ces Center. The fonner chairman of the political science department at the Ma~sachusetts Institute of Technology is the 1968-69 Brackett Lecturer at Union. The Brackett Lectureship is devoted to an address each year by an individual in American government and public affairs. Theodore Sorensen, a presidential assistant to the late President John F. Kennedy, is a former Brackett Lecturer. An undersecretary since 1966, Wood is a recognized authority in the field of metropolitan politics and government, and is the author of a pioneering stu:dy on \Suburbia: Its B. Robert C. Wood, thi~ Brackett Lecturer.· year's People and Their Politics\ ( 1956) and co-author of a widely-used text bOok, \Politics and Government in the United States.\ held in the Round Theater of Nott Mernorial. The structure of the convention will consist of some ten or more individual committees. These committees will be chaired by pre-appointed \appropriately capable and interested individuals.\ It will be the objective of these committees to \create a dialogue between members of the committee in the hopes of stimulating some new ideas.\ Committees Planned are a wide range of committees to discuss such specific issues as: drugs, draft counseling services, honor-code, admissions policy, campus- community relations, student-government reform and college regulations. Following the convention, The Community plans to utilize the positions and proposals established by further student action and support. The Community is \concerned with the immediate success of the convention but expects future success as well.\ Currently The Community is seeking faculty members with special interests or knowledge in any of the proposed committees. The convention schedule calls for have the committees to meet on the first two evenings and a general meeting on the last night to discuss the results of each committee. The next meeting of The Comrnunity will be on Tuesday, October 29, in the Social Science Building Lounge. All interested students and faculty members are invited to attend. In addition to distributing the handbill, Balagur, Ziegler, and two Union freshman, who were not arrested, also handed out copies of their own Paper Highway, which contained an article on the situation of The Free Student. The assistant principle of the high school called police and had the two arrested for loitering. By Schenectady law, any person on school grounds without permission of school authorities is a loiterer. Immediately after their arrest Ziegler and Balagur called history Prof. Charles Olton, a member of the C a pit o 1 D i strict American Civil Liberties Union. According to Olton, the ACLU at ftrst thought that \there may have been a civil rights case,\ but that \the issue was killd of cloudy.\ Apparently the school officials were not particularly interested in the alleged loitering violation, but rather in suppressing the printed material. This would constitute a violation of the pair's freedom of speech. However, this vague technicality, would not be worth the time, effort and money for the ACLU to ftght, according to Olton. According to Balagur, at least one school official \seems to suppress any sort of free speech.\

Published Tuesday and Fr1day dur- ing the school year by the Student Body of Union College. Schenectady. N.Y. Natwnal Advert1s1ng Repre- sent.at ive: National Educattonal Advert1s1ng Serv1ce, Inc., College Pubhshers Representative, 360 Lextngton AvenuE\ N.Y. C. Edttonal Off1ce, Old Gym, Union· College. Publlcat10n Office, White- hurst Printing & Bind1ng Co., Inc .. 416-418 Fifth Ave., Troy. 235-4450. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscrlptwn 20<r a copy; $6 a year dehvered anywhere in the United· States. SENIOR BOARD D. Peter Drotman ~69 .......... 346·8614 ............ Co-Editor in Chief Jeffrey C. Browne '69 ......... 346-9973 ............ Co-Editor in Chief Richard Lewis '70 ............. 346-1932 ............. Business Manager William Ouzer '71 ............. 377-8613 .............. Managing Editor Allen Gartner '71 .............. 377-8613 ................. News Editor Paul Andrews '71 ....................................... Features Editor Leonard Simon 70 ...................................... Sports Editor Paul Farnham '70 ..................................... Associate Editor Alan Klein '69 ............................................ Copy Editor JUNIOR BOARD Richard Kramer '71 ....................................................... Photography Editor Hertry Fein '71 ...................................................... ,.Associate Sports Editor ·. Peter Weingold '?!.. .............................................. Associate Features Editor .. Alan Cohen '71.. .. , ............................................... Assistant Features Editor Michael Swirsky '70 ........................................ National Advertising Manager Jon Brunswick '70 ....................................................... Distribution Director· Carl Goldsand '70 ......................................................... Circulation Manager , Larry R:othblurn '70 ................................................... Subscription Manager , Jerry Levine '?!.. ................................................ Local Advertising Manager : Jeff Birn '71 ....................................................... Local Advertising Manager . Toward A Student Government Rusty Manker's recent and sudden announcement that the Student Council leaders would like to completely revamp the organization of school government \from the trustees down\ seems to be surrounded with ironies: Union students, having coped for decades with what is now ~egarded by the Council officers as a poor system of representation, are faced with not only Mr. Manker's proposal, but also simultaneous proposals from at least one other spontaneously organized group of students. Another irony is that any plea for participatory democracy was as much a surprise to the Student Council members as it was to the student body in general. Manker's proposal resulted from a series of closed-door meetings with the knowledge of no one but the Council officers, the IFC and UIC presidents, three political science faculty members and President Martin. These unfortunate paradoxes threaten to touch off a debate on the issues about which everybody seems confused rather than on the one issue well worth discussing - that of reorganizing student government. It is pointless to argue over who thought of the reorganized representation system first, because both proposals are essentially the same. It is equally pointless to debate over the methods of arriving at the proposals now, because the proposal is a good one. We must note that several members of the committee have commented that the reason for holding the meetings in secret was expediency; i.e. they wanted to present a concrete proposal, the details of which could later be developed quickly, to the student body. We consider the position of the conunittee members on this point severely weakened by the basic structural sameness of the various proposals submitted to us to date. We do not wish to bring the secrecy issue to a head but merely to note in passing that it was unfortunate that the officers deemed it in· feasible to hold open meetings; and further to express our hope that the officers will see fit to hold their committee meetings in a more open manner. There ar~ too many questions to be answered and persons to be heard on the issue of representation in the coming weeks to threaten the passage of the overall proposal with meaningless debate. Instead, we suggest that the shapers of the final draft of the student Senate proposals ponder these questions: l. If the Student Council, Inter-fraternity Council and Inter-residence Council are to be disbanded, what happens to their officers? Do they automatically become Senate officers and fraternity and dormitory chairmen or is everybody to be reelected? 2. What fraternity matters come specifically under the jurisdiction of the Senate; i.e., can the Senate legislate matters concerning only fraternities or only dormitories? 3. When .and how are the elections of Senate representatives and officers to be conducted? 4. Are class officers still voting members in the Senate, and, if not, does class distinction of any kind still exist? 5. What will be the organization of committees? Will student and student- faculty committees consist of Senators, non-Senators or both? 6. Can the Senate legislate on specific living units or are living units autonomous? 7. Are the Senators to vote on conscience or on referenda of constituencies? In other words, how participatory is this participatory democracy to become? We suggest that all interested students be allowed to be heard on these issues, particularly Student Council members, now that the blueprint of the new organization has been drawn. We urge that students not settle for an incomplete referendum but rather that they wait until these and other details are explained. letters: To the Editors: The last issue of Blither fraternity .Men Eva.fuate the C()ncordiensis contained an article concerning student leaders' proposals for changes in the exis1ing system of student government. To some the article suggested that a group of student leaders and the undersigned constituted a self-appointed group which was in the process of preparing plans for the :reorganization of faculty govemment as well .as student government. In order to correct any false impressions, we wish to clarify the origins of our role in the &ctivities leading to the student leaders' proposal. At the request of President Martin, the three of us agreed to serve wi'th student l'eaders in an examination of the role of students in the governing structure' of the College. The Union' College Young Republica.tls have elected officers and organized for the ·' fall campaign. Plans have been made to ~canvass locally and for a bus to .the Ni:x.on .rally in Albany I on October 28. · 1 Fac '':F.r9.sh Evalu,afe Rushing'' by Union· salaries in To the Editor: The article \Frosh Evaluate Rushing\ which appeared in last Tuesday's Concordiensis, provided an obviously unbalanced view of tbe fraternity rushing syste:!ll. We fiBd it impossible to believe that Mr. Ginsberg could not filld any freshmen to comment favotab•y upon the system. Most of those we have met were not only favorably impressed, but were enthusiastic about rushing. So as to present another view regarding the issues discussed in that article, may we provide the following comments. To answer the \unknown frosh\ who felt that rushing is a \haphazard experience\ because of all .the new people he had 1o meet, we contend that meeting new people is the essence af college life, and mshing is a perfect vehicle thFough which to achieve this goal. Contrary to the opinions expressed, we are certain that a majority of houses do not by any means fit the description that fraternities are \unnecessary cliques\ which serve only to provide .. cheap entertainment,\ to \steal your dates,\ and to \get you drunk\_ On the contrary most houses are interested in the freshman who is n()t so shallow as to seek these qualities in a fraternity, but rather who looks for a brotherhood in which he can find lasting friendship, an atmosphere that is relevant to college life, and an oppartunity to develop a sense of. responsibility necessary to insure the growth and development of a meaningful organization. Ancl with regard to any confused freshman who feels that the fraternities \ollght to change their names because most freshmen can't read or remember them\ we contend that these names will remain meaningless unlessyou are willing to make the effort required for a meaningful rush. The Brothers of The Sigma Phi To the editor: Someone once described colleges as being the richest of all institutions, wherein each stude11t enters with a wealth of knowledge and leaves with nothing. There is a lot to be said for this. It implies the discarding of ()!d, ingrained, often predjudiced ideas, and starting to learn anew. It implies a questioning of ones self as well as ones environment. It implies a zeal for the diverse and opposing point of view. In view of this, we congradulate those members of the Class of '72 who contributed to the article by Harris Ginsberg criticizing rushing. The article gives the impression af an open-minded class questioning a self- content system. Perlectly valid arguments have been brought against fraternities in the past; each freshman class raises new questions. So far, most <Jf them have been ignored or met with close-mindedness. If the fraternity system is justifiable, it must answer discussions. Alan Burges puts it weU -· ••a planned life is closed; it can be endured, but it cannot be lived.\ Perhaps we have lived by plans too long. Les Petrovics '71 Delta Chi DARI TREET RESTAURANT YOUR CHOICE CHAR-BROIL STEAK VEAL CUTLET CHICKEN ••• $1.65 2049 Van Vranken Ave. FR 7-4261 To The Editors: I fmd Mr. Ginsberg's recent .article, \Frosh Evaluate Rushing\ to be biased and unsubtantiated in the extreme, and in sl1ort typical of your .paper and its manner 0f expressing opinion. You seem to in1ply that some sort of poll was taken of freshmen who have participated thus far in the rushing program but refuse to comment on just how many were interviewed or what questions were asked of them. Why? Surely you would n0t want to keep this vital infonnati0n from your readers unless of course your interviewing of freshmen was a\ 'haphazaJ!d experience' \ in itself. It should also be emphasized that the students and faeulty involved in the effort to bring about change in student government agree that questions concerning 1he role of students in the broader .governmental structure of the College cannot be dealt with by the group as now constituted. William J. Daniels Robert Sharlet James E. Underwood Dept. of Politic~l Science There will be a Nixon Bandwagon in the Tri•City area on Oetober 30-31. Vol.unteers 1 r·. are needed to travel to shopping centers and business districts to blitz these areas with buttons, stickers and literature. Two area Congressmen, Republican Daniel E. Button of, ' the 29th District and Democrat Joseph Y. Resnick -of the 28th District will debate the question \Why Nixon? Why Hunphrey?\ , on Monday., October 28 at 8:00 p.m. in the Linton High School auditorium. Those who want to join in a tnass anti-demonstration at the Nixon rally on Monday October · 28 in Alb <lily should contact A(t · ' McCabe m'Glenn Grossman. The time and place of the rally will be announced on W.R.U.C. There will be a Students for , Humphrey meeting Monday. October 28 at 7:00 p.m. in SS · 115. ·during the category instructor according the Presid~; The Ar University salaries f OJ in every professor . change in, year. PresideJ said that . salary lettl achieve is added, \A exactly w: definitely The \A professors only by th Rad~ I ha informati< Higher Ec , the Presid 'am partie all studen Your criticism of fraternities in general might move me to be seriously impressed by your one-sided account of the situation were it not overshadowed by your evid'en t low opinion of the Class of '72. The freshmen I have come into contact with seem very intent on evaluating the fraternity system and each of its houses before making a:qy kind of decision. Perhaps a good follow-up article would be, \Frosh Evaluate Concordiensis\. • following Juniors who desire tickets for . , :law 90-57 To The Editor: the hayride on Friday night of Sec. 5( My roommates (P. Weingold, Fall Weekend may purchase of higher them for two dollars per couple . . after a Your use of the expression ''putting on airs\ I find somewhat comical. Perhaps the only one \putting on airs\ was the author of this slanderous article. l am of the suspicion that you seriously intended to pass it as journalism. B. Levine, J. Blank) and I would like to take this opportunity to offer our room, 318 Fox House, as a place to hold future Convocations. Though our room is rather small, I'm sure we will have no problem accommodating all interested students, if the first two convocations can be used as an indication of student enthusiasm. in the Student Activities Office. · ' opportun.i A waiting list of those students in d i vi d other than juniors who wish to e m pI o y attend is also being compiled. , institutiot Details and directions to the has been hayride will be available at of record Student Activities. was comn William M. Wicker '71 There will be a Student Council meeting Monday in Hale House lounge at 7:00p.m. Gary Yams '71 Professor J. Lawrence Katz of R.P.I., the Liberal Party Candidate for Congress in the 29th distfict, will speak in S.S. 016 at 2:30 p.m. on Monday, October 2& .. WORK FORJAVITS. HE'S WORKING FOR YOU. The war. The draft. T:he upheaval in our cities. Senator Javits knows the problems that are troubling American students. And he's working toward solutions. The War: In February 1967, the Senator split with the ad~t.inistration's war policy. Since then he has been working for a halt to the bombing in the North, a cease fire on both sides and a speedy de-Americanization of the war. The Draft: This year, the Senator introduced a bill to Con- gress to change our antiquated draft Laws. In part, it would give us a lottery system. One which would subject a man to the draft for only one year. Instead of eight. The Cities: Senator Javits is the man who founded the Student Coalition for Urban Action. A group that will become directly involved in solving the problems of Ol:Jr problem-ridden cities. The future of America will soon be in your hands. Yet many of you, too young to vote, feel that your hands are tied. Senator Javits disagrees. If you're old enough to have an opinion, if you're old enough to speak out, then you're old enough to work for a man who shares your opinions and who will speak out with you. If you'd like to know more about Senator Javits' accom- plishments of the past and plans for the future, you can. If you'd like to help work for Senator Javits, you can. Either way, contact Peter McGinnes at (518) 463-2532. And remember, you don't have to be able to vote in November to make your opinions count. WORK FOR THE SENATOR. RE-ELECT JAVITS. ... enactmen involved 1 to others disruptiot property institutio1 to prever in sud engaging pursuing such cri1 nature a substanti~ administr . , with resp' was co institu individu ·employee period o:f payment benefit o any of th an ins1 individua au thorit: sentence any im individua ·shall den the two-~ payment . benefit o any of th (b) If educati' afford opportur indivic employee that suer refused regulatio institutio enactmet such ref nature : substanti admini institutic shall den ,, years, ar or for th individm: ., , , program~ These National Educatio and a guarante York Assista1 com para in other These imposed College I abide by

ge Young elected for the·, have been and for a in Albany a Nixoa area Volunteers o shopping districts to h buttons, ... Button of, I Democrat the 28th question 28 at 8:00 School join in a at the ay October . 1 · A(t ssman. The e rally will Faculty Pay SchRi~~~ country by Paul Farnham submit data on faculty salaries Union's average faculty to tbe A.A.U.P. which prypares salarieS increased b:y ov:er 1 80% an annual report ranking the · · during the last ten years; in every colleges. Many persons refer to category except that of this ranking when applying for instructor with a 65% increase jobs. according to a report released by The breakdown of average the President's office. salaries for the present year and The American Association of the percentage increase since University Professors rating of 1958 is: professor - $15,344 salaries for 1967-68 was an \A\ (84.7%); associate professor · in every category except full $12,507 (89.3%); assistant professor with a \B\ rating. No professor - $10,110 (80.1%); change in rating is expected this instructor . $8,31.8 (65.7%); year. lecturer- $9,925. President Harold C. Martin said that the most common . salary letter for. small colleges to achieve is a \B\ or \C\. He added, \Although we can't tell exactly where we stand, we are definitely in a good position.\ The \A\ ·rating for full professors is usually received only by the large universities. Radsface$Cu I have just received The average salary for the whole range of faculty excluding members of the library staff and physical education department is $12,097, while the average with compensation is $13,778. information regarding the new for , Higher Education Bill signed by Monday , , the President on October 16th. I p.m. in SS · ' am particularly anxious to have all students made aware of the \ following provisions of public for •, : law 90-575: night of Sec. 504. (a) If an institution purchase of higher education determines, per couple . · . after affording notice and Office. · 1 opportunity for hearing to an Letter:- To the Editor: Paul Andrews is a very funQy fellow, right? So what does he do when the flag is found to be flying at half mast for no apparent reason. Paul makes a little joke about the .t\FROTC students becoming confused by the fog and missing the top of the pole by 50 feet. In defense of the AFROTC students, I would like to state that it was I who lowered the flag. l did so out of respect for the dead, civilian aad military, of both sides in Vietnam. Furthermore, I did so out of respect for the flag, lest it be symbolic of the immoral actions which the United States is performing in S.E. Asia. Every day is a day of mourning and sorrow for the United States while it remains in Vietnam. Name withheld on request CASH CONTROlLERS CONTIASI COINS AND CLUBS What is the Tax Committee? The Srudent Council established the committee of four students .to distribute funds to various college activities \as it sees fit.\ The members of this group are Craig Younger, Chairman; Ross Fraser, Secretary; Jim Stillman, member-at-large and Student Council Vice President; and Neal Gordon, Senior member. Meeting four days a week, the committee discusses in what manner the money placed at its disposal, should be distributed. In order to receive funds, every student activity submits a preliminary budget before the end of each term. They then submit a final budget for evaluation, and the committee interviews a representative .of the club. Conce1:1t 1!()-]icy concert committee to ask for In addition, the committee additional funds. makes decisions concerning In some instances, a student campus concerts. Three weeks in a s s o c i a t i o n i n c l u d e s advance of 2 ·cQncert, the non- stu dents or takes committee c.he-dc.s whether the out-of-town trips. Hence the Tax contracted pe-rformer has Committee finds itself in a maintained o-thter contracted difficult position: whether to performances. allot money to such an According to ~eal Gordon, organization or not. It usually actors work a.ce<Jrding to the does. \act of God\ clause, that is they The senior member of the will perform if there are no Stu dent Tax Committee is unforeseen hindrances. In case chosen by· the existing the performer can not appear, membership through. an the committee w0rks with an interview process. The intermediary so that there will committee also chooses a junior be a substitute group. as secretary. When he becomes a The Tax (:om:m.ittee also senior, the secretary dictates the price of tickets, so automatically becomes the that the conc:er1 will \break chairman of the committee. All even\. The most ob'Vious 'reasons members are responsible to the for a concert to fail, as in last Stu dent Council ancl. must year' s case 1 . are poor submit ·a detailed report in the organization and ,tbe fear of a students individual attending, or wish to e mp I oy e d by, su·ch an compiled. . institution, that such individual . i Funny how big you can get and still remain virtu~ Youmayev~n_liv~inC:~~~£~:_!!!!~~2-~~~~~:;,/-·· ally anoa~~~\'\\'\\. ~ ... \'~\~='\''\'·+\'*\'~-_,_~:='-*\'\\\'\-~-~-' -\'''~\-c·,~·W'\ei)]?'e'fa.te·m·'38\Stat::es; :--· · -- · . . ._,,. to the has been convicted by any court vailable at of record of any crime which nee Katz of Party ress in the in S.S. Monday, was committed after the date of enactment of the Act and which involved the use of (or assistance to others in the use of) force, disruption, or the seizure of property under control of any institution of higher education to prevent officials or students in such institutions from engaging in their duties or pursuing their studies, and that such crime was of a serious nature and contributed to a substantial disruption of the administration of the institution with respect to which such crinle ' was committed, then the institution which such individuals attends, at is · employed by, shall deny for a period of two years any further payment to, or for the direct benefit of, such individual under · any of the programs specified. If · an institution denies an individual assistance under the authority of the preceding sentence of this subsection, then any institution which Such . individual subsequently attends · shall deny for the remainder of the two-year period any further payment to, or for the direct . benefit of, such individual under any of the programs specified. (b) If an institution of higher education determines, after affording notice and opportunity for hearing to an individual attending, or employed by, such institution, \· that such individual has willfully refused to obey a lawful regulation or order of such institution after the date of enactment of this Act, and that such refusal was of a serious nature and contributed to a substantial disruption of the administration of such institution, then such institution shall deny, for a period of two ' ·years, any further payment to, or for the direct benefit of, such individual under any of the ., . · programs specified, These provisions apply to National Defense Student Loans, Educations] Opportunity Grants, and all other federally guaranteed loan programs (New York Higher Education •i. Assistance Corporation and · comparable lending institutions in other states). These regulations have been imposed by the Congress and the College has no alternative but to abide by them. R. Gordon Bingham Director of Student Aid :.:. ?.,._ ~ .Somehow we've managed to do it. So here we are, 5 ~i1lion doll~rs strong~ gr~w1!1-g all we·re a group of over 60 companies, making eve~- . over th~ place, and looking f<>r engtneers and sctentists to thing from microwave integrat~d circuits to color tel~v:t· grow wtth us. • . ·. . sion. And we rank number 9 in the top 500 corporations Why don t you Jrunk. ll1l .~ver WlJ.h your Ylacement · in the nation. , · Director.. . , . , . . . . . . Prettyhotstuffforanobody. Incidentally, were kno'Ml In tJ:e commumeatlons B. ut though you m~y not recqgnize our name~ may· field as General Telephone.& Eleetromcs. be the name Sylvania rings a bell. · . .. Pssst: It's one of our companies. Pass It on. < :·· .. :. : :;·; .;;-~:::~- -· ,..,. -~~~·--~···· ...... -.,..~-----.- ..

',. Concordy Sports Lette-rs \' Per Boaters Whitewashed at Hobart; Host Golden Horde Tomorrow by Mike Reger Only taking thirteen shots on goal during the entire game, Union's varsity soccer team dropped a frustrating l-0 decision to Hobart on Wednesday. The Garnet's ~ecord now stands 3-3 with the toughest part of the schedule to come. The game was characterized by the lack of offensive ball control by both teams. Of the Garnet's thirteen shots on goal, eight were ta.ken in the fourth period with none coming during the second period. Despite a strong defensive effort by Union, the Statesmen scored the only goal of the game at 6:20 of the third period. Hobart managed eighteen shots on goal during the game. Mike Pitt played the entire game in the goal, turning in a creditable performance. On Saturday, the Dutchmen meet a tough Clarkson squad in a home contest at 2:00p.m. The Golden Knights crushed Union 8-3 last year in a rough game. After the Clarkson encounter, the Garnet meet R.P.I. at home on Tuesday and travel to Colgate on Thursday. In last year's game, Union fought their way to a 1-1 tie with the heavily favored Rensseltute squad. Colgate is a new addition to Union's schedule. '72 Top Preppies by Stu Moss A fire-up Union freshmen soccer team snapped its one game losing streak as it beat Northwood 3-1 Tuesday afternoon. This brings the squad's record to 3-1-1 with two games remaining on the schedule. The game got off to a bad start as the Garnet found themselves down by a goal after only I: 38 of the first period. However, Myles Richard tied it up before the half ended and Pierre Roumain finally put the team ahead with a goal in the third period. Art Fraser ended the scoring whea he booted one in with just 45 seconds remaining in the game. Benson Pleased Coach Robert Benson was pafticularly pleased that the team was able to pull the game out after fighting back for almost three periods. He described Northwood as the \best hustling team we've faced\ but added that \we just outhustled them.\ The defense, which plagued the squad in its last game, was improved and there was good midfield control of the ball. Another definite asset is the team's scoring ability, as the entire front line has scored. Richard leads the squad having scored one in each of the five games. Roumain has contributed three goals, while Fraser has chipped in two and Ira Turret one. The Dutchmen hope they can stay up for today's home game against Hobart. They conclude their season with another home contest with R.P.I. Tuesday at 2:30 at Garis Field. Frosh Face Jackets by Walt Spencer Coach Bruce Allison stressed basic fundamentals in practice this week, as he prepared his winless freshmen football team for their third game of the season today on Alexander Field against Rochester. Defensive coach Carl Taubner introduced new defensive alignments and added some new wrinkles to his old sets to take better advantage of developing frosh personnel. The squad spent much of the week practicing tackling, something they have done very poorly in the first two contests. C'oach Allison stressed that if necessary, only eleven players would appear in today's game. Boys who shine one way may very well play the other way also. Allison feels that this will get his best personnel on the field. , . In a c~ange in the offensive backfield, Jeff Seay will replace the 111JUre~ Bill_ Corcoran. Also out of action will be Don Rogers, the defensiVe s1gnal caller. He suffered a compound finger fracture last week. Gershon's Sandwiches Cold Cuts Salads Open l11es. - Sun. 8 A.M. to 9 P.M. . Ph: EX 3-06171600 Union St. ~EWEST SKI INSTRUCTORS Weekend positions available for skiers to instruct high school boys and girls. Prior in- struction experience not re- quired. Good compensation. Excellent ski facilities. SHAKER VILLAGE SKI GROUP Write or Call: Shaker Road, New Lebanon, N. Y. Lebanon Springs (N.\f.) 7-1255 LU~CH 715 Albany Stre.et Spec\olizing: - HOT DOGS WITH FAMOUS SAUCE - DINNERS AND SANDWICHES - TAKE·OUT ORDERS --. Union Student~ Favorite Spot - (Serving Sch•nectady Since 1921) Mon.-Thurs. 7 A.M.-2 A.M. Fri.·Sot. 7 A.M.·4 A:M. Sun. 9 A.M.-1 A.M. Gridders Seek Fourth Against Statesmen by Gary Prevost · football dates back to 1896 Renner at quarterback, and which stymied the Garnet last year. A year ago, the Gamet gridders dumped a winless Hobart squad 37-15 a·t Alexander Field to end a five-year Stateman winning streak. Tomorrow, the Dutchmen travel to Geneva, hoping to improve on a 3-1 season mark, and break a twelve-year losing streak on the Hobart grounds. The Gamet last defeated the Statesrnen at home in 1956, when they scored a 20-7 victory en route to a 6-2 season mark, our >last winning team. Prior to '56, the last Garnet victory in Geneva came iH the 1948 season. A Union victory will also give the Gamet its first ICAC footbali crown. Union-Hobart Harrie:rs Fa.ll, Frosh Win, Moeckefleads The varsity cross-cour:J.try team failed again Wednesday, dropping a 15-50 decision at Hamilton. The tough and experienced Hamilton squad proved too much for the young Garnet varsity as the first seven men across the line were from the opposition. The varsity scoring was led again by senior Myron Fribush, who has paced the squad in each meet so far. Joe Burgess and Terry McManus were next to finish with John Braham and Dick Cooperweiss the other Union scorers. This Saturday marks the first entrance into a big meet for the varsity, as they travel to Alfred for the ICAC Championships. This meet should prove to be a real chance for comparison against real talent and also a chance to rebound from last Wednesday's disaster. Frosh Win At Darrow The freshmen cross-country team upped their record to 3-2 on Tuesday with a convincing 19-36 win over Darrow. For the fifth consecutive meet, the first place went to Bryant Moeckel. Moeckel so far has not been defeated in a dual meet this year. Overall the squad showed marked improvement, especially in the numbers four and five men. Paul Forbes and Dave Rice finished with almost identical times to take second and third, with Larry Thronton and Keith Jamba placing sixth and seventh. Tom Klinkow came in right behind them, with Bob Baas the seventh man for the young Garnet. Coach Coleman was very pleased by the improvement shown and noted the closeness of the first and fifth runners. In order to be a good cross-country team the time span between first and fifth men must not be great. when the Garnet wer~ attempted to establish a triumphant 5-3. The overaii ground-based ball control series stands in Union's favor offense. He has been successful. 26-25-2. ' Against Alfred, the Statesmen The gridders emerged healthy ran a phenon1enal 90 yards, from a 24-14 \close call\ against which included only six pass RPI, .and are cognizant of the attempts. toughness of the Statesmen Senior :halfback Mark Perkins squad. Currer:1tly sporting a 2-2 has carried. the brunt of the mark, Hobart has been coming running load. The speedy on strong. After dropping 165-lber has rushed 96 times for contests to Upsala (7-6) and St. 387 yards in the last two games. Lawrence (42-6), .the Statesmen Against Alfred, he had 49 carries have turned the tide, downing to tie an NCAA record. He made Hamilton (12-0) and Alfred all- ECAC for his Hamilton (14-7). performance. Sharing the Hobart's turnabout can be backfield duties with Perkins is attrib1:1ted to two major factors- junior Bill James, who has a change of game plan, and the gained 145 yards in four games. experience of new personnel. Quarterback Renner is a weak The Statesmen passed 46 times passer, thus far completing only in their first two ball games and 2 of 11, but he is a better than were largely unsuccessful, average runner. The Statesmen completing only 16 while having are weak in the pass receiving six intercepted. Interceptions department, an important factor were almost solely responsible if the Garn.et can coHtain the for the loss at St. Lawrence. running game. The Hobart Ball Control Offense offensive line is not big, but they At Hamilton, Co~ch AI opened large holes against a Kelley inserted junior Richard well-respected Alfred front wall . . . GR-ID STATIS.TICS RUSHING: Player Rushes Yds. Gd. Yds. Loss Net Ave. TDs Jerry Ostrander, HB 46 257 -11 246 5.4 1 Joe James, FB 57 218 - 7 211 3.7 3 Larry Sykes, FB-HB 63 194 - 8 186 2.9 PASSING: Player Att. Comp. Yds. Had. Int. TDs Conv. Ken Pearce, QB 98 48 (49%) 506 9 2 0 RECEIVING: Player Caught Yds. Gd TDs Conv. Rich Swan, SE 16 152 0 0 Jerry Ostrander, HB ll 87 I 0 Craig Carlson, WB 9 139 0 0 Dan Gould, TE 7 78 0 0 Art Jacobs, WB 4 27 I 0 SCORING: Player TDs Conv. R-P Conv. K FG Pts. Joe James, FB 3 0 Jerry Ostrander, HB 2 0 Jim Sabella, K 0 0 Dave Gray, DHB I 0 Art Jacobs, WB I 0 Ken Pearce, QB 1 0 Larry Sykes, HB I 0 INTERCEPTIONS: Player Int. Yds. Ret. Steve Cienski, DHB 7 Paul Ramsey, DHB 3 Joe GraboWski, LB 2 GARNET NINTH Union moved up one spot in the EC AC Division III Football ratings this week, placing ninth in the ballotiJ.g. King's Point, the only team to beat the Garnet this season, is currently ranked second in the same division. Williams College, next week's opponent, is ranked first in Division II, a classification of larger schools. 122 39 0 0 0 18 0 0 I2 8-9 1-5 11 0 0 6 0 0 6 0 0 6 0 0 6 TDs 0 0 0 © The inexperienced personnel· in the form of six freshmen defensive starters have been rounding into form. In the last two games, the defensive unit has allowed no points. Alfred's lone TD came on interception runback. The Statesmen stopped the Saxons' fine running game, and were effective against the passing attacks of both Hamilton and Alfred. Union should be at full strength tomorrow if Joe,[ James's ankle is mended') 1 sufficiently. Defensive end John Burton returns to -the lineup after missing two games, giving Coach Schmid his first look of the season at his pre-season starting front four. Coach George Flood expects to throw more against tl1e Statesmen than he did ,against · the Engineers, whe'n he. 1 admittedly became' \conservative\ too early jn the contest. Some new wrinkles in the offense can be expected to help the Gamet's faltering air attack. The key to a Garnet victory against what may be the . best Hobart squad in several· 1 ' years will lie in stopping the Hobart ball control game. If the Garnet can gain an early lead, as , they did last year, the Statesmen might be forced into the air, where they are vulnerable. Skiers Convene Training Opens The Ski Team has held its first organizational meeting and will soon begin practice for the ' upcoming year. Kent Wiley, president of the group said that the Club will participate in two meets l this season. Most in the club will be skiing in racing competition for the first time, but there will be a few veterans remaining. Competition for this year's taces will come from Paul Smith's, Cortland State, and Syracuse. '' Besides training in fundamental exercises and skills, the club will also be able· to see ,j films on skiing techniques. Professor Peshka will ·coach the team and aid in training and developing skills basic to the '' sport. BLAZER OFOLORY Vol. 98 r Lawrence: Monday in . L E: \The F elect Hurr to the dog were the Katz, the candidate, students tv Dr. K~ R.P.l. an committe~ · district (J incU1nben1 and the candidate, Them: what E:>r. politics'\· . their prit party lea Although\ hoped th reformati< consensua Ni By While. I some 8,0( plurality 1 .a speech Building dissenting .from Ur placards destroyed . support · hopeful. No i That most excellent leisure jacket, the blazer. abounds in a choice of shap.es an-d fabrics. We show a slender sam- pling-the Proprietor has a goodly num- ber in addi lion to . bi suggest. 1 I d · reporte ' not alrea' integral p White Hm \As w . 'expect a : Nixon sa ni' . · by Stanley Blacker ·\:J' qr $6o.oo tricks,\ ir I) , that rem~ is likely 1 has so far 9\\inu~~ AT 428 STATE STREET ~quirr~bop 326 STATE STREET, 377-:1061 Studer \Debate!' iJ .Spreads\ complete .JEWEL.ERS l PHONE FR 4-0183 ) \..._ _______ __, Open Thurs. 'til 9

Garnet last ' , . lv \A Causa Persa Parole Assai\ / Founded at Union College 1877 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., OCTOBER 29, 1968 The Draft Page 3 PRICE TWENTY CENTS personnel· freshmen been In the last unit i Alfred's a pass back. The Saxons' Student Council Suggests End To Parietal Hour Restrictions and were passing milton and at full w if Joe 1 s mended ~)i end Jolm the lineup giving look of pre-season expects the did ,against . · when he., 1 became in the wrinkles in to· a1 te ring air a Garnet may be the. in several· 1 the If the lead, as 1 e Statesmen the air, /ene pens held its and . for the ' dent of the Club will meetsl this club will be for ere will be a year's taces Smith's, II ining in and skills, able· to see techniques. ·coach the and to the ' ' ,, .. -,. ·~·' Lawrence Katz: Congressional Candidate Lawrence Katz addresses Union students Monday in SS 016. .Liberal Candidate Explicates Politics \The Republicans say that if you elect Humphrey, the country will go to the dogs; so I say, let's elect Katz\ were the words of Dr. 1. Laqrence Katz, the Liberal Party Congressional candidate, as he spoke to Union students Monday afternoon in SS 016. Dr. Katz, a Physics professor at R.P.L and a State Liberal Party committeeman, is running in the 29th district (Albany-Schenectady) against incumbent Republican Daniel Button and the Conservative-Democratic candidate, Jacob Herzog. The main emphasis of his talk was what E:>r. Katz called \consensual politics'\ whereby politicians give up . their priQciples in order to satisfy party lea'ders or to get re-elected. Although\ he did not specify how, he hoped that through some kind of reformation in the electoral process, consensual politics will be eliminated. Although stressing that protest demon st rat ions are essential in influencing politicians, Dr. Katz showed concern at the lack of college students willing to become .. activists\ in the campaigns by canvassing and doing clerical work for candidates who will work for the demonstrator's goals. Most of the questions asked of Katz involved his views on the problems of the cities. He hoped for a \horizontal\ (integrated) society, but saw the benefits of two \vertical\ separate but equal economy and political organizations in order to bring about the horizontal society. Other points on Dr. Katz' program include wo.rking toward universal disarmament, a complete halt to bombing in Vietnam and reduction of troops, initiating effective gun registration legislation, open national primaries, and lowering the voting age to 18. by Alan Mell The Student Council proposed an end to campus-wide social rules last night, when a motion was passed by a 9-8 vote,. suggesting that living units establish their own rules and methods of enforcernent. The AJlc(ollege Council which meets for the first time this year Wednesday night, will be infonned of the Student Council's action and will be asked to study the problems living units will encounter. A committee of the Student Council has already begun a study of systems used in other colleges where living units make their own rules. The council arrived at the close clecisi0n after several members expressed disatisfaction with the proposal because of several as yet unanswered questions. Council members asked the committee to formulate ways in which the units could select new social rules and then enforce them. A definition of'livingunit' was also requested. Two possibilities were raised, one being that each dormitory be divided into units, by floors, the other that the entire dorm be considered one unit. The purpose of the proposed change is to take the regulation of the lives of students of the hands of the administration and trustees and give students the responsibility of governing tl1eir own actions. Social rules were defined, in the motion, as meaning only parietal hours, which are the hours when girls may be in a student's room. The committee on social rules plans to take a random poll of every sixteenth student, to determine the reaction to the idea of letting students create and administer their own rules. Once student opinion has been tested and a plan drawn up f01 abolishing rules and creating new ones, the Student Council hopes to present the entire plan to the trustees . The session, which lasted less than an hour, became stormy for a few minutes, when Bill Dawson asked for an explanation of the plans to reorganize student government Rusty Manker, ACC and SC President and also a member of the committee looking into possible ways of changing the government, said the committee is not a part of the Council and that he and other Council officers on the committee and \acting as concerned students\ and not as officers. Ju ill iard Quartet To Perform: Famed Musicians Due Friday The wmld famous Ju11iard Quartet will open the 1968-69 Schenectady Museum-Union College Concert Series \With a performance at 8:30 p.m. Friday in Nemorial Chapel. Established in 1946, the Julliard Quartet is considered the first family of chamber music in the United States since its appointment as Quartet-in-Residence of the Library of Congress in 1962. The appointment also gives the artists the privilege of using the Stradlvarius instruments willed to the American people by Mrs. Gertrude Clarke Whittall. In its local appearance, the quartet will present the following program: \Op. 76, No. I in G Major,\ Haydn; \Quartet No. 3,\ Bartok; and \Quarter in C-Sharp Minor, Op. 131 ,\ Beethoven. Noted for the sheer excitement and glamor of their concerts, the Julliard Quartet presents programs that range from the classics to the moderns. Nixon Speaks In Albany: Dissenters Rebuffed The quartet has premiered many important works and has been repeatedly asked to present the entire Beethoven Cycle in New York, San Francisco, Boston, and other cities. Entirely American-trained, they have carried the in1pact of American music-making into the worl.d beyond. Europe in particular has hailed the Juilliard Quartet for its interpretation of its own masters, Beethoven, Haydn, and Bartok. · By Republican Supporters Of Law And Order largely ignored by a majority of the other spectators, among whom were Gov. Nelson A RockefeUer and Senators Jacob K. Javits and Charles Goodell. enthusiastic crowd which made no bones about its support of law and order--and Nixon--as the remedy for America's ills. The quartet was asked by Leonard Bernstein to perform with him and the New York Philharmonic Martinu's String Quartet With Orchestra in 1963. Bernstein has also recorded a Mozart Piano Quartet and Schumann's Piano Quintet with them. Dawson, Sophmore Class President, requested Council supervision of proposals for reorganization and asked the c ommittec to consult class presidents and Council members before presenting the final proposal to the student body. The debate ended when Manker agreed tu have a committee report presented to the Council before a rc fcrcndum is placed before all students. Manker also announced that the committee will meet un Wednesday at 9:30, in SS 10. All interested students are invited. The possibility of holding a concert during Parents' Weekend, which is scheduled for May 3, was raised. The concert would be held to raise funds that will provide 20 to 40 disadvantaged Black students with full scholarships next year_ A recent Admissions Committee meeting brought up the possibility of admitting these students, if money from a new source can be found. The Student Council was told that this money migllt be provided by a sell-out concert in the Fieldhouse, which could raise up to $15,000, if the entertainer did not charge for his appearance. The Community Affairs Committee will investigate the likelihood of bringing big-name entertainers who would be willing to help the college raise scholarship money, by working for free. In addition to Parents' Weekend, the dates were announced for this year's upcoming big weekends. The weekends are: Winter Weekend, February 15, Senior Weekend, April 26, and Spring Weekend, May 10. The chairmen of a number of committees reported that there is a shortage of students willing to serve as committee members. They announced · that anyone interested in sitting on a committee should see a council member. Peace Party Here Thursday Representatives of the Peace and Freedom Party will be on campus at 11 :30 p.m. Thursday to discuss the upcoming presidential election, Ed Buzak, president of the Class of '70 said Monday night. Organized by Buzak, Craig Baumer, President of the Class of '69, and Bill Dawson, President of the Class of '71, the convocation will be held either in room 016 of the Social Sciences Building or Memorial Chapel. While. Richard Nixon yesterday told some 8,000 people he wanted \not a plurality but a mandate togovern\ in .a speech in front of the State Capital Building iQ Albany, a group of dissenting students--several of them . from Union--had their anti-Nixon placards .! taken from them and destroyed lby area Republicans who Nixon was received by Rockefeller with enthusiasm that was noticeably different from his attitude following the Republican National Convention in Miami Beach. Paraguayan Officials Visit Union RY the in a We sam- to .b1 ,, . support the Republican presidential hopeful. No incidents .or arrests were reported and nothing was said that has not already become an expected and integral part of the 1968 race for the White House. \As we approach Halloween we can . · expect· a ~e~k of trick or treats,\ : Nixon said, \and especially a lot of tricks,\ implying that in the short time I) , that remains until Election Day there is likely to be more mudslinging than has so far tainted the campaign. Students in the audience chanted \Debate!\ a,nd \Stop Spiro Before It ij .Spreads\ ·-~{H their heckling went completely unnoticed by Nixon and Law and order was the expected theme of Nixon's speech. He advocated a foreign policy that would \prevent Vietnarns;\ an educational plan that would provide for \quality not quantity'\ and a \national police academy that would produce better policemen\ and make for more of the law and order this country, according to Nixon, needs. \As a senator Humphrey was noted for his huge spending,\ the Republican charged, \and as a president he would probably be the most expensive this country has ever seen.\ Background heckling charging '\Pig! Pig! Pig!\ was drowned out by an Nixon: Republican Presidential contender delivers speech at an Albany Rally Monday. Union College was host yesterday and today to three Paraguayan legislators, including the chairman of that country's Senate Foreign Relations C' ommittee. Under the auspices of the U.S. Department of State, the three men are spending a month in the United States to observe the presidential election and learn about the American electoral process . Visittng Union were Dr. Pedro Hugo Pena, fom1er minister of public health and social assistance and current chairman of the foreign relations committee; Dr. Bonifacio I r ala Amarilla, president of the Paraguayan House Committee on Municipal Affairs; and Ing. Fermin Ramirez, a House 'member and member of the exect1 tive committee of the opposition party. Prof. Byron Nichols of the political science department was host to the Paraguayans. Nichols spent last year in Paraguay as a Danforth scholar. On Monday morning the guests met with Dr. Martin Lichterman, dean of humanities and social sciences, to discuss \Higher Education in the United States.\ In the afternoon they attended a seminar on American elections. Participants were William J. Daniels, assistant professor of political science; James E. Underwood, assistant professor of political science; Art McCabe, president of the campus Young Democrats; Phil Ball. student spokesman for the Young Republicans; and Abby Stillman, president ofthe Political Forum. I The Paraguayans also met with Kenneth K.alb, program director of the Volunteers for International Technical Assistance.

Letters Editors' Note: Due to recent increase in the volume of letters, we feel a clarification policy toward them is necessary. All letters must be submitted typewritten to Concordiensis offices in Bronner House on the night before publication. All letters must be signed. The editors reserve the right to edit all letters exceeding 100 words in length with the understanding that the apparent intent and purpose of the letter shall not be altered. We encourage letters but are sometimes forced by space limitations to print only exerpts. 53% in Science; Poli Sci increase BLITHER There will be a bus leaving at 7:30 a.m. Saturday for New York City to see Hubert Humphrey speak. Anyone who wishes to go should see Prof. Berk of the History department, Art McCabe. 406 South or Glenn Grossman, 2l6 Davidson. To the Editor: Ooo, I'm so mad about all the jokes being made at my poor expense. It just so happens that I am the person who reversed all the door-knobs in Davidson and Fox. And it wasn't done because I regarded them as phallic symbols or anything like that, Andrews. It was a silent protest against all the injustices a left-handed person suffers in this bigoted country. Political science, biology, history, science (including pre-med) and psychology are the most popular fields of study at Union according to the fall term's registration figures. Forty-four percent of Union's 1511 day degree candidates have majors in Center I, the humanities and social sciences, while fifty-three precent are majoring in Center II, science and engineering. Three percent are pursuing five year-two degree programs. Within individual classes the choice of majors is similar to the total figures. The largest major in the senior class is science. Economics and science are tied in the junior class while biology leads among sophomores and freshmen. Same As Last Year The breakdown among majors is also similar to last year according to Registrar Calvin Schmidt. He noted that although the number of students concentrating in science and in biology is about the same, there has been a trend toward specific departmentalization, especially among sophomores. Other significant shifts are an increase in political science from 13 2 to 152, an increase in psychology from 88 to 109 and a decrease in math ftom 93 to 71. The 1511 day degree candidates represent full-time students who came to Union via the admissions office. Class breakdown is: Senior-317; Junior-345; Sophomore-387; Freshman-442; Other- 20. Transfers There are also 64 special day students. Fifty-two of these come from the evening program which does not offer a great enough variety of courses for them, especial\y at the advanced level. Schmidt. said it has been Union's policy that the day college is for the full-time degree candidates whereas the evening program is for part-time degree and non-degree students. The breakdown .of last year's enrollment was 1438 day degree candidates and 43 special students. Total enrollemnt has increased this year by 94 persons - 73 full time students and 21 special students. Twenty-one of this year's students are transfers from other schools and 42 are former students returning to Union. On Thursday, October 31, Mr. Stanley Bennett, a draft · ~esistor; Prof. William Bristol of the history department and Reverend Frank Snow, the campus minister at S.U .N.Y.A. will lead an informal discussion ·of the draft and alternatives to it at 7:30 p.m. in Hale House lounge.' Coach Ronald Coleman will discuss football highlights at the Circle K meeting Thursday at 11:30 in SS 115. All students involved in Upward Bound tutorial and big brother work are requested to attend a training workshop in Communications which will be held in SS 0 1 5 on Thursday at 4:30 p.m. Film workshop will meet on Wednesday, October 30, at 7:30 p.m. in Silliman HalL What is the matter with you sweet boys? Can't you realize the meaning and effectiveness of a silent, unannounced protest? The next time you see something out of line here at Union, Just assume it is one of us protesting Social Injustice. Every day is a day for reversing door:knobs at Union while it remains indifferent to the left-handed person. Ray Krise, Jr. Circle-K Initiates Service Progra•n The Smile, an eighteen minute color award winner will be shown tonight at 7:30 p.m. in SS 016. The movie concerns a Budhist monk's struggle between the spiritual and material world. It is sponsored by Newman and is free of charge. Wilson Recitals Begin Sunday Hugh Allen Wilson, associate professor of music and college organist, will present six Sunday afternoon recitals this year continuing an 18-recital schedule announced last year. The first recital of this season will be this Sundav at 4:00p.m. A highlight of the senes will be a program for organ and orchestra on Feb. 2. The Nortijeastern New York Philharmonia will join Prof. Wilson for the performance. Qlournr Published Tuesday and Friday dur- ing the school year by the Student Body of Union College, Schenectady, N. Y, National Advertising Repre· sentative: National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative, Jf>O Lexington Avenue, N. Y. C. The establishment of a campus archives and the publishing of a student directory including names, campus telephone numbers, home addresses and majors are two of the projects planned this year by the Circle K Club. Circle K is a service organization sponsored by the Schenectady and Niskayuna Kiwanis clubs. Its main purpose is to help disadvantaged youths and institutionalized persons. President John Valentine said that the organization is \a positive action club.\ This llitnsts Editorial Office, Old Gym, Union College, Publication Office, White.· hurst Printing & Binding Co., Inc., 416·418 Fifth Ave., Troy. 235·4450. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20t a copy; $6 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. SENIOR BOARD D. Peter Drotman '69 ................ 346-8614 .........• Editor-in-Chief Jeffrey C. Browne '69 ............... 346-9973 .......... Editor-in.Chief Richard Lewis '70 ................... 346-1932 ....... Business Manager William Ouzer '71 ................... 372·8541 ........ M<Uiaging E\iitor Allen Gartner '71 .................... 346·8067 ............ News Editor Paul Andrews '71 .................... 393-737 8 ......... Features Editor Leonard Simon '70 .................. 372-7227 ........... Sports Editor Paul Farnham '70 ... : .. ............. 377-0329 ........ Associate Editor Alan Klein '69 ...................... 372-7718 ............ Copy Editor JUNIOR BOARD Richard Kramer '71 ..•............................. Photography Editor Henry Fein '71 .................................. Associate Sports Editor Peter Weingold '71 ............................ Associate Features Editor Alan Cohen '71 ............................... Assistant Features Editor Michael Swirsky '70 ....................... National Advertising Manager Jon Brusnwick '70 ................................. Distribution Director Carl Goldsll!ld '70 .......•.................•........ Circulation Manager Larry Rothblum '70 .................•............ Subscription Manager Jerry Levine '71 .............................. Local Advertising Manager Jerry Bim '71 ............................... , Local Adveitising Manager Lloyd Bums '71 ..................•.... Schenectady Advertising Manager STAFFS News - Mike Crowley, Carl Dietz, Larry Friedman, Hanis Ginsberg, Ken Golden, Steve HeUer, Bruce Husten, Steve Levy, Alan Mell, Joe Schwartz, Randy Sutter, Ken Wyse, Gary Yarns, Jon Anes. Features - Paul Markes, Steven Cole, Steve David, Danny Shocket, Bill Shapiro. Sports -:- Gary Provost, Michael Reger, Walt Spencer, Stu Moss, Paul Forbes, Jay Blitzman, Bill Holleron. Photography - Dav.e Zapata, Mark Lichtenstein, Jody Saslow, George Kaplan, Mark Boylan, George Marquez, Jeff Silverman. weekend its members are putting on a talent show for the Retarded Children's Home of Schenectady. They will also assist in the campus blood drive. Valentine said that the club is not temporary. Its charter will be officially given to them at a dinner to be held on November 19. Other projects for the year will be the continuation of the used book directory to be passed out at registration and a Key C I u b day for high school students in the spring. Coach Ronald Coleman will discuss football highlights at the club's meeting Thursday at 11:30 in SS 115. A meeting of the Student-Faculty Bridge Club will be held tonight at 7:45 p.m. in Hale House. Anyone who wants to join the Bridge Club is invited to attend. The results of the last tournament held on October 8 are: 1st-Prof. Goodheart-Prof. Bacon; 2nd-Prof. Fox-Prof. Stone; 3 rd-Michael Levin-Epstein· -Michael Klayman; 4th-Michael Fishman-Steven Kirschner. If ... ~ .. +- ... ..,;~ Q /;tf-le lttc:-k 1 ~nJ o, bo..,b;'!!l h~l+; \'Q.!l~e. PATSo w;ll j\'\'P o\ ! Acme Barber Shop 509 Union Street Experienced Barbers Nearest to Union Co'llege Students THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeats from all over the world. 406 STATE ST. Vintrks Men's Shop Specialists in Collegiate Wear 514 State Street at Lafayette Park & Shop Free Parking Marine Biology Pioneered ',: '' ,, '; Professors-Don Miller and Paul Urban i I Union's course offerings courses such as this one to- i Revie Editors' foremost ir students t< Assistant F requested 1 personnel t HandbooJ Alternative. ' Dean of ~ Here are h collection arrived at tl Massive Service c . United Stl The cam attributed American 1 of dubiom persuaded deeper tha: · our curre Vietnam. changed f the past : anti-draft 1 a reflectio expanded still further last become more a;nd more ~~ September as the Biology common. Department offered one of the . In the past an undergraduate first regular undergraduate wanting to take marine biology courses in marine biology. The would have to enroll in some ,; ·. course was given at the Marine sort of special program not Biology Laboratory in Woods sponsored by his university. Hole, Massachusetts and lasted Such special programs usually from September 3 to September only last one week. Prof. Miller .. l 21. thought that the Marine Biology governmen pace with, social re' book, Th~ the debate the Ameri' selective s does contl upon \ discussion must be ba Woods Hole, the principle oceanographic center of the East Coast is the home of both the biological laboratory and the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution. It has become a popular summer research center. .The course was . taught by Profs. Don Miller and ~aul Urban. Miller pointed out that the three-week length of the course and the fact that the sixteen Union students enrolled took it with faculty from Union made possible greater continuity ~with the students' work during the regular school year. He also pointed out that he expects undergraduate marine biology Laboratory's interest irt programs such as Union's was shown by the \goldet;1 ,, treatment\ they gave the participants in the course. The course featured lectures · ~ . · by Urban, Miller and. others at the laboratory, field. trips to observe various types of marine life, and independent research '· by the students, many of whom are continuing their marine work as independent research during the sclmot · ')lear. The biology department has set up a marine aquarium to assist them. l The emphasis of the course . : and of most of the work to follow it was on shallow water organisms. The twenty-fiv national' University 'Fm Gen fhOSI Who HavE reco1 Revamping Organization \3 Members of the informal committee of Student Council, Inter· fraternity Council and Inter-residence Council leaders and several interested students met Monday to discuss differences in proposals to reorganize student go'Q\ernment and outline details of the plan. The fmal proposal of the committee which seeks to replace the three present student governing bodies with one and increase partic!'ipatory democracy among students will be presented at a meeting of the student body possibly as soon as next Tuesdav. fj\\,;,u~~ The next meeting ~o discuss I reorganization proposals will be 9:30 p.m. Wednesday-in room 110 of th?. Social Sciences Building. Those interested ate invited to attend. Among the specific issues pinned down at Monday's 1 meeting were the role of tax committee in the proposed Student Senate, the committee on committees and the future ' role of class officers. · · Among the student leaders present Monday were Rusty Manker, Student Council and All-College President; Jim Stillman and Danny Aronzon, ., ,, FO~ v the rr neces fo; t~ elect' Wayn Doug Kurt Heil Rand Char Robe Willi Davi RobE '' Scoti RiCh RobE John Wayr B .. G ;t' Rog4 AT 428 STATE STREET VIi IIi Willi l1) Phel Peh ~I . • JEWELERS ~~-------------------PH_o_H_E_._F_R·-4·-~-18-3~~ Bill Jon Hen1 Dou

red Review The Draft: Selective Service Comes Under Fire Editors' Note: With the draft foremost in the minds of many students today, Charles Olton, Assistant Professor of History~ requested the Schaffer Library personnel tQ order The Draft: A Handbook of Facts and .... Alternatives while he was acting ' Dean of Students last spring. Here are his impressions of the collection of essays which arrived at the library a week ago: Massive criticism of Selective Service conscription in the , United Sta:tes is fairly recent. The cause may be partly attributed to the escalation of American participation in a war of dubious morality, yet I am persuaded that the outcry runs deeper than mere opposition to · our current commitment in Vietnam. Our society· has changed fundamentally during the past decade, and the : anti-draft sentiment is probably a reflection of the failure of governmental policy to keep . pace with, or to comprehend, social revolution. Sol Tax's as well as transcripts of conference discussions and texts of speeches by President .J~hnson, Lewis B. Hershev, book, The Draft, will not end biology the debate over the wisdom of Senator Edward Kennedy and Mr. Robert Samuelson, outlining important developments subsequent to the Chicago conference. The most important section of the book is the first,. which contains the conference papers. They are di:vide.d into four groups: \Problesm of the Draft,\ \Broadening the Draft,\ \Perspectives on the Draftt and \Alternatives to the Draft.\. The papers range in quality from General Hershey's semi-articlllate \Fact Paper\ on conscription procedures, to John Pemberton's closely-reasoned yet impassioned plea for re-definition of conscientious objection; and they range in subject matter from Col. Samuel Hays' detached discussion of military manpower needs, to Richard Flacks' indictment of the draft as anti-libertarian and undemocratic. Every reader will find some essays more useful and more stimulating than others. I wish only to draw attention to three which are especially interesting. in some ,J ·. · the American -· or any other -· not usually Miller Biology irt was selective service system, but it does contain the raw materials Universal Military Training? Paul A.. Weinstein, Professor of Econonrlcs at tht: University of Maryland, provided the conference with an excellent study of the relationship between military vocational . . , upon which intelligent ' discussion and rational decision must be based. \goldet;1 ,, gave the d lectures · ~ . others at trips to of marine research of whom work during biology marine course work to water discuss ' will be room Sciences ate issues Monday's ., of tax proposed future ' leaders Rusty and Jim Aronzon. ., ,, The Draft contains twenty-five essays presented to a nationalconference at the University cf Chicago in 1966, 'For three Generations.' Those Who Know .•• Have been recommendi,..g .. HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER \'3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family\ 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY STUDENTS ENDORSE NIXON We, the undersigned, believe that Richard Nixon is the most qualified candidate for President. He has the necessary qualifications and integrity to lead our nation fo; the next four years. Therefore, we strongly urge his election on November 5. Wayne Fielder Douglas W. Ackerman Kurt Schuttenberg 1'-leil VanWie Randy Sutter Charles H. Roberts IV Robert Erlandson Wil.liam L. Thurston David Mazzocchi Robert Baas Michael Smith Hal lugal Doug Meyer$ Joe Hakim '' Scott M. Horton Bi II Cooper David Friedman Chris Kennedy John lllicolay Philip (~all William Jones Greg Gardiner Glenn Goodrich Jose Ortiz: ,. ' ,, ~I . • RiChard M. Adams Robert L. Herron John C. Robbins Ill Wayne R. Billings B .. Garrett Buttner Roger P. Anderson William P. Palmer Wi·lliam A. Haskell, Jr. Phelps Bro.Y:n Ill Peter Keller Bill Cornish Jon Knapp Henry Casten Douglas Tosh Jim Duncan Jeff Harris Fred Lucas Bob Ackley Don Krutenat John M. Steedman Lloyd Birns Barry A. Freedman Peter M. Dailey William G. Pattison Walter Hennings Drew Hqmel.ink training and society's need for skilled labor. Aside from the :;~.rrny's role in military defense, it might also be a great utility to civil society by preparing individuals for a technological economy 'and by permitting that economy to use all its human capital effectively. Weinstein speculates, for example, that \processing\ disadvantaged young men through the military might be a less expensive and more effective social service than schemes like the Job Corps or programs ·Of guaranteed income or negative income taxes. Built into this proposal is the concept of UQiversaJ military t~aining, however, which may give pause to those who worry about the machinations of the \military-industrial\ complex. An army recruited by universal conscription would be a big anny, and no matter how multi-dimensional its purposes might be on paper, it would still be a dangerous force as a military unit. Array of Federal Forces Morris Janowitz, sociologist from the University of Chicago, also analyzed the relationship between modern technological ~',ociety and its human resources, and conclu.ded that the United States shollld create an array of special Federal forces, of which the army would be but one. Others might include a Police Cadet Corps, a National Teacher Corps, a National Health Corps, the Pea.ch Corps, Vista Corps, and a National Job Training Corps. Service in any one would satisfy a young man's obligation to his country. The argument is compelling: today our nation demands the energy, talent and enthusiasm of its young people only for battle, and largely ignores their capacity for creative assistance in the process of social adjustment both at home and abroad. There is only one drawback to Professor Janowitz's system of National Service (it is a drawback which applies to all such programs). Those who prefer the army, rather than the other alternatives, would be insufficient in number, and the military corps would therefore have ie rely on a conscription lottery. 'Thus a man who preferred to serve his country in Vista, might not be allowed to do so. National Service schemes, in other words, may help By Charles Olton America solve its social problems, but they will not solve the draft pFoblem. Problem of Legitimacy Kenneth E. Boulding, Professor of Economics at the University of Michigan, contributed the most radical paper to the Chicago conference. His radicalism lies not in his specific proposals, for he does not outline a complete program of reform, but in his analysis of the meaning of the draft and the opposition to it. He is concerned with what he calls the \legitimacy\ of the nation state --its ability to enlist the loyalties and services of its people. In loose historical fashion, he traces the rise and decline of legitimacy in the United States, and finds that while there was a time when our nation could depend upon the voluntary services of its citizens, or at least their willing cooperation in the nation's business, it can no longer do so. Forced sacrifices are not demanded in a way that they have never been before: \The title becomes a tax, religious enthusiasm degenerates into compulsory chapel, and voluntary enlistment in the threat system of the state becomes a compulsory draft.\ I call this radical, because Boulding believes the abolition of the draft is essential to the preservation of America as a nation state; traditionally, conscript armies have been considered the guardians, not the enemies, of our national existence. National debate of the draft law declined after June of 1967, when Congress, in its wisdom, ignored most of the argumentation and modified but slightly the old law (a summary of the 196 7 draft law changes appears at the end of this book). It is doubtful that any attempts will be made to revive enthusiasm for legal revision again soon, at least as long as the Vietnamese War continues. Yet this book is not unimportant. If it makes no other point clear, it establishes the fact that the future of America, both at home and abroad, is intimately connected to the eventual disposition of our Selective SeiVice laws. ~~FAILURE You'll never get anywhere without it .. Nothing helps a young engineer's career like being given a challenge. Which is another way of saying a chance to fail now and then. To make his own mistakes. At Western Electric we give our newly recruited engineers responsibility almost immediately. They make their own de- cisions. Learn from their own errors. Don't get us wrong. We keep our demands reasonable enough so that our recruits can make their decisions at their own pace. But our thinking is, a man feels awfully good about even a small decision when it's his. If you're the type who'd like the chance to make your own moves, see our recruiter or write College Relations, 222 Broad- way, New York, N.Y. 10038. A lot of hard work never hurt anyone. @ West~rn Electric MANUFACTURING & SUPPLY UNIT OF THE BELL SYSTEM AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

Beat Hamilton Concordy Sports Selective Servic:e Page 3 Grid Cops ICAC Crown By Dumping Hobart, 14-6 Sykes was the offensive star, with 1 OS yards in 21 carries. Pearce hi·t on only 14 of 33 pass attempts, but his timely aerials accounted for the second Union score. Gould had his best receiving day of the season, with four catches for a total of 50 yards. Other performances of note for the Garnet were Art Jacobs and Pan! Beadle, both of whom have consistently given the offense good efforts. by Len Simon Another fine ove raLI defensive effort gave Union its first lCAC football title by virtue of a 14-6 ·victory over Hobart, Saturday. The win was the first at Hobart for a Garnet grid teain since I 956, and set up this week's game with Willtams as a battle of .f-1 squads. Union scored first, on a seventy-yard drive Ia te in the first quarter, with the big play a 47-yard jaunt by Larry Sykes. Jerry Ostrander added the extra point to make the sec>re 7-0 with 3: 12left in the first ~uarter. Hobart IDok the ensuing kickoff to its own 4 7 on three plays. and from tl1ere Mark Perkim ~allopl'd 'i~ 1·~uds for the score. Perkins. \\Ill• l'J Pried 3q times in the contest, attempted to put the Statesmen ahead on an end sweep for two extra points, hut failed. 57- Y ARDER FAILS The only other scoring threat in the first half ended near midfield, when Jim Sabella's 57-yard field goal attempt fell st10rt and to the Je ft. The half ended with the Garnet holding a slim 7-6 lead. The third quarter was scoreless, as both squads continued to exchange punts. Ron McAvoy of the Garnet punted a total of eleven times in the contest, while Hobart was forced to punt ten times. Early in the fourth quarter, the Dutchmen started their clinching drive. Ken Pearce hit Dan Gould for thirteen yards on a pass play which ignited the rally. Pearce then found Rich Swan for a nine-yard gain to the Hobart 30. After three short gains on the ground. Pearce and Swan teamed up again for eight yards and a first down on the Hobart 14. On the next play, Pearce hit Art Jacobs in the end 7one for the sc(lfe. Sahella's extra point made it 14-b with 11 :49 to play in the game. TWO INTEKCEPTIONS Hobart, primarily a running team, was then fo reed to go to the air to get back in to the contest. However, the Statesmen's attempts were stifled by interceptions by Steve Ciesinski and Paul Ramsey. BURTON. OBERST The defense, as usual, was the key to the Gamet victory. John Burton's return to the lineup added to the defensive line strength, and Tom Oberst played one of his finest games. The linebacking was excellent again, while the defensive secondary was not reallY. tested until the do~111g mtnutcs, whctt it acquitted ttself well. Statistically, Union dominated the game. The Garnet made sixteen first downs as compared to seven for Hobart. Total yardage gave Union a 266-180 edge over the Statesmen. Finally, Hobart lost the ball three times while the Garnet committed no turnovers. Larry Sykes, shown taking a hand-off into the Hobart line, averaged 5.0 yards for each of his 21 carries against tbe Statesmen, Saturday. SCHEI)ULE THIS ~EEK'SGAMES: Wednesday: Cross Country (V and F) at Trinity Thursday: Soccer at (' olgate Friday: Foot ball (F) at R. .P .I. Saturday: Soccer vs. Trinity Daley Field 12:00 Football vs. Williams Alexander Field 1:30 Cross Country at N.Y.S. Championship at Oswego. Hoop Mcnetger Coach Gary Brown has announced that he is looking for a manager for the freshman basketball team. Anyone interested should con tact (oach Brown immediately. Ml DTOWN 13ARBER SHOF All Haircuts dom by Appoint- ment from Tues. thru Fri. Ap- pointments not necessary Sat. 515 UNION ST. 37?-4010 SKI INSTRUCTORS Weekend positions available for skiers to instruct high school boy's and girls. Prior in- struction experience not re- quired. Good compensation. Excellent ski facilities. SHAKER VILLAGE SKI GROUP Write or Call: Shaker Road, New Lebanon, N. Y. Lebanon Springs (N.\f.) 7-1255 The PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP 262 Saratoga Road MAYFAIR SHOPPING CENTER .A.t the Sign of the Red Neon Pipe TUES. thru SAT. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. also THURS. and FRI.: 7 to 9 PM SCOTIA, N.Y. Phone 399-1630 ''A SIZZLER '1 FROM FRANCE. \'lhllt.SI! PEOSONS la:Gd1)~~~·· ) UNDER II / c!~Zf!r:5 Flllu rlnf.i ESSY PERSSO!'; (\I A Woman\) r-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-· j THINK FOR YOURSELF! ~ • • ~ Don't be misled by the currently popular ~ I \don't- trust- anyone- over-30\ argument. 1 • Richard Nixon has given, and will continue • ! to give, serious consideration to the problems I I of youth. •1 • l NIXON'S THE ONEI I J.-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·_. Booters Fall To Golden Horde by MtKE REGER Dropping their third decision in a .row, the Garnet varsity soccer team lost a close 3-2 contest to Clarkson on Saturday. ' Union now stands 3-4 on the season with their toughest opponents yet to come. C h r.is Swan opened the scoring for the Garnet against Clarks0n by scGring on a penalty kick in the first period. The Golden Knights countered with two goals during the first period to gain a 2-1 advantage. Second period action saw Bobby Dodd close out the Garnet scoring with !'lis second goal of the season, assisted by FUiy Scialdone. Clarkson added another marker to make the score 3-Z at halftime. Mike Pitt started in the goal for the Garnet but was replaced by Chris Cartsonis midway through the first period. The defense played an adequate game but experienced a few \communication problems with the goalie.\ Swan and Dodd, both sophomores, played a hustling game on the offense as they have all season. Art Munkenbeck was lost to the Garnet for the remainder of the season as he sustained a bruised calf during the encounter. MEET TUTE TODAY .1\·J-.---'-- VoL 98 r .t .Sanguir Blo()d Dri 'deferred f announce< Th~ Dutcluncn meet a strong R.P.I. cotltingent today in a home contest. The heavily favored Rcnsseltute squad comes into the contest rated number five in the state. The Engineers are led by Tom Conroy, an All-American candidate at wing and goalie Torn Hatch. The game is an important one for Union as the remainder of the schedule consists of Colgate, Trinity, and Hamilton. Last year's contest resulted in a 1-1 tie. SEE YOU NEXT FALL: It's usually a rough-and-tumble contest when the Garnet hooters meet the tough Clarkson squad, and this 1 . year's game VYas no exception. The Golden Horde doesn't field a football team, and most of their men play soccer. The Gamet came A grm interested Sy stem--pt it--met Ia~ The Dutchmen travel to Colgate on Thrusday to face a tough Red Raider squad that is fresh frotn a 4-2 victory over Hartwick, who was rated number one in New York in last week's poll. Harriers Fifth In ICAC Run by PAUL FORBES In a day marked by variations in the weather, the Union cross-country team failed to vary their usual performance as the team placed fifth in the lC'AC championships held Saturday at Alfred. With wind, rain, hail and sleet added to the ever present difficulty of long distance. the harriers totaled a last-place 95 points. Myron Fribush, co-captain of the squad, pulled in first with an eighth place finish, followed by the other co-captain, Joe Burgess, in the fifteenth spot. The varsity and frosh travel to Trinity on Wedttes.day for their last dual meet of the season. out on the short end, 3-2. u- of R Dow~ns. Frosh . ~' . ' by WALT SPENCER The freshmen football team dropped a 28-20 decision to the University of Rochester frosh on A.lexander Field Fr!day. In absorbing their third defeat of the season, the yearlings showed better defense, much improved tackling, and better execution overall. The coaching staff felt that Rochester had a strong team which would compare favorably with previous opponents Trinity and Hobart. The Du t<:hmen got off to a big lead early when Rich Jaszczak capped a 44 drive with a 25 yard run off tackle. Barry Gross added the extra point. Eight plays later, defensive tackle AI Schade covered a fumble punt and took it to the Rochester 11. On the next play Jasczak scored. Gross's conversion hiked the lead to 14-0. The second quarter was all Rochester. Their first score came on a screen to the halfback a minute after the quarter started. Five minutes later they completed a long pass to the tight end. Rochester kicked off to start the second half, but the Yellowjackets got the ball right back and drove for a score. The one yard plunge came at 12:48 of the third period. After Union ran a series of downs, Rochester received the punt and drove to the Union 28. They attempted a long field goal which fell in the end zone. Jaszczak delayed and then picked up the ball and started up the sideline. The surprise return was good for 37 yards. Relying mainly on passes to split end Mike Kumpf. Coach Allison's charges drove to the six yard line. The Rochester safety then intercepted a pass on the one yard line to thwart the drive. A few minutes later Union got a break when Mike Rich, a defensive end, recovered a loose pigskin on the Rochester 30. Jaszczak scored from the two on the second play of the fourth quarter. The kick was blocked. Three minutes later the Kodak City men added their final score on a screen pass to the split end. The Final frosh game is Friday when they meet R.Pl at Troy. The Engineers will be trying to avenge a 54-0 humiliation suffered last year. DAMBROS'E CLEANERS 1519 VAN VRANKEN AVENUE SHIRTS AS YOU LIKE THEM 22C STARCH NO STARCH BUTTONS SEWED ON PANTS WHY SAVE ... •• PAY SAVE 49~ MORE •• SAVE J lounge wil ~rea men methods classified The m J ·Snider, U Religiou , in trod ucir wan ted to he could ha~e indiv The p: j \'\\··''\\~. Wil departmeJ Objector 1 Frank So 'State Ur Albany v adviser ,Stanley I ) J resister \ week by case-·whi< sentencin $10 .000\ the near J Prof. I a factt al te rnativ The t1 ,:are the 1 Conscien to do no 1 -o st~ Tonscien willing tc any capa .. guided< Theil prison (J under th ,the cour eniphas possibilit upon ret Benne is a Qual the time his draft fulfill th< the classi condemn the draft the draft which t . stipulatic Benne mar

