·6 2J3 ~­ for len Bill :Neid el over giving u·p •; were the £iel-<l :r:e~u.u: r-uas. ine .outfield were a Coacb Law 41 · ed to,geiliher r Bob way-. the RPI t' •eJl• 1 d the games in I {)n '~ .. ces an ·irn· { earn wllich caarn- 1:6-4 ten spedfitc is ' blit tbe been W illlam:.s is po().r sea- ~1 their :fir~t UiVlass, aad [ has only I>layed b r with his as :Hal- Clar-kson Neidel goes oals A:ssis:ts ·\ _____ }Q 12 ., ..... 11 10 ' ..... 12 1 6 4 5 0 ..... 5 0 ..... l 2 ..... 1 1 ' ..... l 1 1 1 • ..... 2 0 Games BA ltBI .500 12 .474 8 .409 6 • .368 2 .350 a .294 3 . 250 3 .158 2 .375 2 .200 ~ .125 1l .:2 .328 4~ EEA 1.57 ~.12 ~.25 RS ) w Reply to ACC Page 2 Upward Bound Page 3 Founded at Union College 1877 VOL. 97 - No. 26 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, FRIDAY MAY 3, 1968 PRICE 15 CENTS Students, facul·ty and Schenectadiuns He1r Oflicals Elaborate on Implications Of College Commitment to Diso:d~antaged All College Council Votes To Censure A small group of students, faculty members and tewns people yesterday heard college officials discuss the implications of a college c0mrnitment to the disadvantaged, particularly the Negro student. The meeting was held at 11:30 a.m. in Memorial Chapel. President Hareld C. Martin, who called the meeting, opened by re- marking that the purpose of the meet- ing was to provide the student body with background for thought about the implications of a college effort to hetp the disadvantaged student. Martin called l1POn everyone involved to exercise patience \in recognition of the fact that it takes time to make changes; even instant coffee is the result of a laborious process.\ Next, Jonathan Pearson, III, Direc- tor of Admissions, conpared the num- ber of Negro students admitted to Union with figures from other col- leges, and admitted that \we haven't been doing enough to attract Negro students to Union. We have been Class Officers Elected From. Student Body Craig Baumer, Edward Buzak, and Bill Dawson were elected presidents of next years senior, junior and soph· omore classes respectively in last- night's final elections. Baumer, of Delta Chi, defeated Larry Pedowitz who is currently ini Scotland 97 to 77. Joseph Douglas, Delta Phi, won over Gregory Ellis 124-37 for the Vice-Presidency of the· class of '68. John Barber, Beta Theta Pi, and Ken Merz, Delta Upsilon, were elected secretary and treasurer, re- specively. Merz, who has held other class offices defeated Wayne U golik 126 to 47 while Barber's election was uncontested . 0 f f i c e r s assisting B u s a k, in the class of '70 will be Peter Gar- rison, Chi Psi, Vice-President; Michael Keesee, Delta Phi, secretary; and Jeff Knetzer, Sigma Chi, Treasurer. Thew opponents were John Brennan, Den- nis Meyers, and Frank Donnini. The totals were 113 to 103, 138 to 72, and 126 to 80, respectively. Buzak defeated Michael Martell in a close presiden- tial race, 104 to 100. Other officers of next years sopho- more class are: James Kadamus, Vice- President, Bob Levine, secretary, and John Robbins, treasurer. Kadamus de- feated John Gardner 123 to 106, and Robbins own over Daniel Angelo 123 to· 93. Levine was the only official write in candidate for secretary, re- ceiving 84 votes. However there were 78 write in votes for Michael Crowley and 40 votes for Nick Volk- man. Dawson's opponent was Donald Kessler whO was defeated 126 to 105. Choice Results Senator Eugene McCarthy won a plurality of his party votes, and the largest total num,ber of votes, of the fifteen candidates entered in Choice '68, the nationwide Col- lege Poll sponsored by Time Maga- zine. F()rmer Vice President Nixon tallied an impressive 63%, of the Republican vote. The results follow, Percentage Candidate Total of party vote McCarthy 286,000 49\/o Dem. Kennedy 214,000 37% De>n. Nixon 197,000 63% Rep. Rockefeller 115,000 37% Rep. Johnson 57,000 10% Dem. Wallace 33,000 Ind. Humphrey 18,500 3% Dem. M. l. King 3,000 Ind. Stassen 1 ,000 Rep. More than one half of the stu- dents also voted in favor of reduc- ing the American participation in the war. Roughly one-fifth of the nation's college students voted in this first nation-viide student presidential primary sponsored by Time Maga- zine. Patterson For Editorial Poor Taste left in the dust, and must get going.\ There are two Negroes in the present freshman class. Professor Christopher Fried, Coun- selor to Students, noted that it was difficult to speak of the impact on counseling of such a :program. \I can't remember seeing a single black stu· dent at the counseling center in the last two or three years,\ Fried said. A program for the disadvantaged raises questions for the colleges' aca- demic standards with regard to good standing and course loads, said Dean of the College C. W. Huntley. Disad· vantaged students would require more flexible standards. The nation's new draft regulations require that in order for a student to be considered satisfactorily pur· suing a course of study he must earn one-quarter of his graduation credits each year. Registrar Calvin Schmidt noted however, that special consid· eration is sometimes given to dis· advantaged students at the request of the college. At present, Union's major efforts in the area of helping the disadvantaged are channeuea through tne u vward Bound program, directed by Mr. John Terry. The program is designed to prepare disadvantaged students to en· ter college. Union has already agreed to accept some Upward Bound grad- uates in 1969. R. Gordon Bingh.am, Director of Student Aid, contrasted the scholar- ship distribution between Negro and White students at Union. The ten Negro students now receiving gift aid from Union get an average of $2;000. per man. The average gift to the non-Negro disadvantaged stu- dent is $1300. Bingham also pointed out that to finance aid to 150 Negro students at Union at the present rate would require a massive 2/3 increase in available scholarship money. By NEIL S. KRAMER An article in last week's Concordi· ensis, written by Alan Ziegler and headlined \ 'Dutchman,' Rape, Point To Needed Change,\ was labeled as a \slander of the whole Cellege com- munity,\ by the All-College Council and the Editor-in-Chief, Richard E. Patterson, Jr., was asked to apologize and the newspaper was warned that if the situation repeats itself, further steps, such as the editor's resignation, would be in order. The ACC also confronted the cam- pus' visceral reaction to the assassi- nation of Dr. Martin Luther King with a request for a presentation of defi- nite alternative programs as it tabled a motion sent to it by the Student Council to recognize the Black Alli- ance and enlarge the College's com- mitment to the black community. In what Grady Aronstamm, Stu- dent Body President termed, a \sig- nificant widening of the area of con- cern of the ACC,\ the Council acted on the complaint of John Morey, '68. Explaining that he considered him- self neither \a Puritan nor an ultra- moralist,\ Morey expressed severe in- dignation with regard to the \taste- less manner\ of the article, which concerned itself with the audienca reaction at the recent showing of th!ll film \Dutchman;\ student reaction tO' the recent rape that took place on campus, and a comment on social rules. Dean Huntley remarked that he had planned to speak on this issue also had no one else mentioned it and said that he felt that the Coun- cil should assert itself in this area. Theologian To Discuss Issue Of Black Power: Dr. John D. Maguire, associate pro- vost at Wesleyan University, will ad- dress the Parents' Weekend convo- cation at 11 a.m. Sunday, May 5, at the college's Memorial Chapel. He will discuss \Black Power and Broken America: Some Thoughts on the Past and the Future.\ In addition to his duties as asso- ciate provost, Dr. Maguire is an asso- ciate professor of religion. While teaching theology and the history of religious thought, he also offers courses in the relationships of con- temporary theology to modern litera- ture and the behavioral sciences. Ma- guire was a close friend and intimate associate of Dr. Martin Luther King~ Jr. A native of Alabama, he was gradu- ated in 1953 from Washington and Lee University. Following a year as Fulbright scholar at the University of Edinburgh, he returned to the Yale Divinity School where he was graduated in 1956. He was awarded the Ph.D. in 1960 at the Yale Gradu- ate School. Dr. Maguire's main avocational in- terests are the arts and public affairs. especially human relations. An orig- inal \freedom rider,\ he was im- prisoned briefly in 1961 in Montgom- ery, his native city, for challenging segregated terminal facilities. He has served on town and state- wide committees for race relations. He is on the executive committee of the Middletown branch of the N.A.A.- C.P. and is the founder of the North- ern Student Movement. He participated in the 1966 White House Conference on Civil Rights. He is a member of, or consultant to, many other antipoverty and human relations organizations. He writes on a variety of subjects in addition to technical theology, hav- ing contributed articles to \Religion in Life \ \Foundations \The Inter- collegian,\ and \The Christian Scho- John Maguire, wno will speak Sun- day morning in Memorial Chapel. lar.\ A collection of his lectures ap- peared last Spring, entitled \Pilgrim's Dance: Notes Toward a Christian Life Style.\ Field Reserved Library Field has been reserved for the· use of the Arnold Air Force R.O.T.C. exercises Saturday morn- ing May 4 from 9:30 A.M. until the exercises are completed. This is considered a regular part of the R.O.T.C. curricular program at the College. This is also a part of the Parents Weekend Activities. He also thought the story was in very bad taste and expressed the concern that the college community outside the confines of the campus, the alum- ni and trustees, would be heartily distressed and that if the ACC did not act conclusively, pressures from these areas would be severe. Prof. Gado expressed the oprmon t h at a s presently constituted, the rights of Concordiensis and other pub- lications are well defined, but that the duties and limitations were nebu- lous. Since the paper is printed \by the Student ~ody of Union College,;' it enjoys certain immunities that would not exist were Concordiensis not a College ordained student activ- Richard E. Patterson, Jr., called to task by the ACC Wednesday night. . --~-~-~---------· ity. In the case at hand, the College would be able to sue the editors and writer for slander. if Concordiensis were an off-campus publication. Gado concluded that it should be estab- lished to whom the paper is respon- sible and that it should be clear that never again will indiscretions of this nature be tolerated. Huntley said, \The editor and the writer are equally culpable.\ Pat- terson was at the Kroll Quartet con- cert, unknownst to the ACC, and was not at the meeting. Ziegler had de- parted for home earlier Wednesday afternoon. Jim Rubenstein, editor of the Gar· net, chairman of the Student Tax Committee and a member of the ACC~ protested Dean Huntley's motion that if this happens again, the editor would be liable to harsher measures, in- Congressman eluding a call for his resignation. He felt that what Gado termed, \the need to establish the responsibility of ca~~ pus publications,\ should not lead to the de facto establishment of the ACC as the censor of Cl!mpus pub1ications. Rubenstein was the only member of the Council to vote against the measure, although Prof. WiHiarn Bris· tol and Dean Lucas, proxying fot Delm Olton, abstained. Lance Spall- holz, Gerry Grau, Jim Male, proxy- ing :for Steve Ritterbush, Huntley, and Gado voted for the motion. The sense of the Council was that the Editor-in-Chief is wholly respon- sible :for what appears in Concordi· ensis and there was no mention of any specific action with regard to the author of the article in question, Zieg- ler. . \Jj The Council voted not to accept the suggestions of the Student Coun- cil drafted by Ed Blechner, with re- gard to recognizing the Black Alli- ance and emphasizing the commit- ment of the white community at Union to blacks. The sense of the ACC, as expressed by Dean Huntley, was that the pro- posals were vague and amorpllous, ''not completely a thoughtful docu .. rnent \ and that \many topics are bandied glibly\ and incompletely. In its unanimous move to table the proposals, the ACC remarked that it understood the emotions that prompt- ed these resolutions, but that they were not clearly enough defined to be meaningful. It was also feared that the ACC should not move until there was some clear evidence of what the faculty and administration plans. The All College Council meet- ing was Wednesday evening, be· fore the student body meeting on the question of the relationship of the College to disadvantaged stud· ents, held Thursday morning. (See story this page). Rubenstein termed the proposals \a token gesture,\ and was fearful that passing on ~hem would have no real effect. With regard to the inclusion of 'black culture courses' in the cur- riculum, Prof. Gado said that we must be careful not to overcompensate and include courses \that cannot stand. the tests of the marketplace.\ He add-• ed that in his own field, literature,, he does not select course material on the basis of the author's pigmenta- tion, but on the literary merit of the writing. He concluded that it would be as mistaken to plan a course around the racial makel\p of the au- thors as to exclude books on this basis. To Speak Congressman John Culver, Democratic Representative from Iowa, and Brackett Lecturer for 1968, will delive1· a lecture on the topic, \A Congress- man's Life\ on Monday, May 6, at 8:30 p.m. in the Social Science Auditorium. Mr. Culver, born in August, 1932, was educated in the Cedar Rapids Public Schools and graduated from Franklin High School in 1950. He attended Harvard College where he graduated cum laude in American government. At Harvard' he was a star fullback, set a modern SC()ring record, was named to the All-: American academic team an.d was a National Football League draft choice in· 1953. -. \- . . After graduation, the Congressman studied for a year at Cambridge University in England. When his studies were over he served 39 months in the United States Marine Corps and was stationed in the Philippines. He is now a captain in the Marine Reserves and a member on the Reserve Officers Association. Following military service, Culver attended Harvard Law School where he served as Dean of Men in the University Summer School in 1960. In 1962 he received his L.L.B. and became a member ()£ the Iowa and Linn County Bar Associations. In 1967 he was admitted to practice before the United States Supreme Court. Culver served as legislative assistant to Sel).ator Edward Kennedy of Mass- achusetts in 1962-63. He is now a member of the House Foreign Affairs Com- mittee and the House Committee on Un-American Activities. He is also a member of the Anglo-American Parliamentary Conference on Africa and has participated in the Atlantic Institute International Conference for Young Leaders. In 1967 he headed a study mission to the Soviet Union. He is married to a former Iowa Rose Bowl Queen and he and his wife have four children.

2 Friday, Look Before You· Le.ap LETTERS We are sorely saddened by the action taken Wednesday by the All-College Council in threatening to demand the resignation of any Concordy editor whorri it deems irre- sponsible. Such action not only clearly oversteps both the legal and moral jurisdiction of the Council but also threatens to emasculate the Union College student press. Censorship (which would be the effect of the Council's action) is not, we believe, what the Council wishes. The center of the controversy, an article by Alan Ziegler in last Tuesday's Concot·- diensis, expressed an opinion which evidently was unpopular within the Council. We read the article before deciding to publish it and found that its ideas might have been expressed more delicately. One may take issue with the opinions expressed in the art- icle, yet is not everyone entitled to free ex pression of his opinion? The article clearly carried the by-line of the author (who is not listed as a member of the Concordiensis staff) and was printed in the features section, not on a news page. In no manner was it represented as news or Concordiensis Editorial opinion. The author of the article did not anywhere imply that he was referring to an atti- tude general of the campus community. With regard to the movie, those few viewing it were condemned. A few specific students were accused of insensitivity with regard to the rape. If one disagrees with the author's interpretation of the laughter heard and remarks made, one is free, indeed, obliged to make such disagreement public. Yet, the author and Concordiensis were accused by the ACC itself ·of slandering the college community. T~at is a serious crimin9:l cJ:arge, 11:ot .to be made lig~tly. If t~e ACC wishes to have the nght to accuse Concordiensis of crunmal or at least Irresponsi- ble action, we feel it must accept the responsibility of offering evidence in proof of its charge. Such charges and the threatened sanction cannot be made lightly and without due regard for rights, responsibilities and. law. W.e a~ e w.iUing to defend ourselyes against such charges of slander (really libel, Which IS prmted slander) before an Im- partial Adjudicative board. The star chamber proceedings Wednesday were made more serious by the fact that the editor of Concordiensis was in effect tried, found guilty and punished for slander without due process of law. The ACC had no legal right to do what it did. The editor was not informed in advance that he would be in effect tried by the ACC that evening, even though Dean Huntley had decided to bring the matter before the Coun- cil well before the meeting. A senior board member of the Coneordiensis staff was present, but as the editor had not been informed of the action to be taken, he could not instruct the senior board member as to the nature of his position. We appreciate eff()rts by the Council to reach us while we were at the Convocation, yet it is hardly credible that at an institution of higher learning which supposedly values human rights and freedoms, such proceedings could go on to their conclusion without allowing the Editor the courtesy to reply to the charges made a~ainst him. The basic violation of justice should alone cause the A CC to pause and reconsider its stand. We do not begrudge the ACC its right and duty to express its displeasure with any- thing printed in Concordiensis. No one defends freedom of speech more vigorously than we. We solicit and respect criticisms from all members and groups of the campus community yet we cannot L11 good conscience allow the ACC to co-opt for itself the right to censor the student press at Union any time it voices an opinion with which the Council disagrees. To give them this power would be to assure that they would use it; and stifle free and open debate at Union. Concordiensis frequently calls the campus apathetic and has never been threat- ened with censorship. Yet to call the campus insensitive, especially in light of its reac- tion to the death of Dr. King, has brought down the axe. Such rash action often is prompted by a guilty conscience. To paraphrase Jolm Stuart Mill, the truth of an issue is not determined by sup- pression of the issue, but in the light of a free and unbiased discussion. We will not argue that Concordiensis has been by and large a responsible student newspaper: it has. There can be no freedom without responsibility, but there can be no responsibility without freedom. A free and open forum for the expression o.f diverse opinions, so valuable and cherished traditionally by our society, would be seriously weakened on this campus were the ACC's decision to go unchallenged. The administra- tion contends it has censor power over Concordiensis, and it may, but wisely it has chosen to endure a few unpleasantries rather than lose the benefits of a vigorous, stim- ulating, scintillating free student press. We are .confident that the ACC does. not want to lose these benefits either. In conclusion we feel that while the article in question may h a v e been poorly written, and expressed opinions offensive to some, it remains the burden of the ACC to prove that such opinions are slanderous and without foundation. We further urge the ACC to recind that part of its motion threatening firing the editor, in the interests of justice, freedom and good sense; and to remove itself completely from jurisdiction over the student press. The ACC had established itself as a deliberate, rational and wise body. In this in· stance we feel it unfortunate that the Council acted hastily without considering all the ramifications of its action and we urge the ACC to take the wise, mature an.d reason- able step of admitting its error. \If any opinion is conpelled to silence, that opinion may foraught we certainly know, be true. To deny th~s is to assume our own infallibil- ity.\ J. S. Mill. It Pays to Advertise In Concordiensis Let the lager freely flow. Down to Louis', let us go, The Devil's Advocate Although I have a deplorable fondness for many a Victorian, I am not at at! happy to learn that Mrs. Grundy has been res- urrected and is alive and well at Union Col'lege. On Wednesday the All-Col- lege CouncH, instead of taking typewriter in hand and spank- ing the Editor, chose to vote that he publically apologize for his bad editorial judgment in permitting the publication of a feature story by one Alan Zieg- ler. Alas, if editors are to apol- ogize every time they use bad judgment, show bias, or editor- Ialize outside ·Of the editorial coLumns, they had better keep a permanent box reserved for the purpose. The Concordy, however, is a special case, It is supported by student taxes and is there- fore accountable to the student body, its publisher. In theory, perhaps so. By long-standing custom, however, it is not ac- countable to its sponsor. It is not required to submit its copy for prior approval. It regularly attacks the real or alleged shortcomings of the administra- ti<Jn, trustees, faculty, and even of the students themselves and their establishments. One of the functions of a college news- paper is to be a gadfly. Even finishing schools no longer ex- pect their editors to be un- official members of some Bu- reau of Public Relations. A col- lege paper is written for stud~ ents, no matter how far beyond the walls it may circulate. It is an organ of student opinion -not the voice of the majority, necessarily, but simply the voice of students who are in- terested enough to write for the paper, or even to the paper. Administration, trustees, and faculty have grown accustomer to being presented as fools and knaves-hardly a reassuring pic- ture for prospective students or donors. The Student Council and fraternities have long since begun to feel positively neglect- ed if they are not attacked at least once a month. Why, then, the uproar about another fly bite? For the first time in mem- ory, a campus publication has printed an article in bad taste, not only likely to offend the fair sex but to make a manly man bite his mustachios in an- ger at not having the sexual ma- turity of some of his fellows questioned. Mr. Ziegler's allegedly por- nvgraphic polemic was, in fact, merely a pungent piece of Pur- itanism. By linking several recent events, Zieg~er made a plea for co-education as an an- tidote for what he considers to be the unhealthy sexual climate at Union. Under existing con· ditions, too many students, he sugge.sted, inevitably regard girls simply as sexual objects rather than as human beings- scarcely a startling thesis at this late date. He produced as evidence, among other items, the student reaction to the film 424 State Street Published Tuesdays and Fridays dur· ing the school year by the Student Body of !Jnion College, Schenectady, N. Y. National Advertising Represen- tative: National Educational Adver· tlsing Service Inc.. 360 Lexington Avfl. N.Y.C. Editorial Office. Bron· ner HGuse, Union College. Publication Office, Schenectady Printing Com- pany, 602 Broad1vay. Entered In the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mall. Subscription 15c a copy; $5 a year delivered anYivhere In the United States. A unique piece to dine with old European Atmosphere SENIOR. BOARD RICHARD E. PATTERSON, JR. '70 ...•.... 346-8614..-............. _ ........•.... Edltor-ln-Chief D. PETER DROTMAN '69 -·-····-·--·-··--·--·-···372•9730 ... -·····--···----··-···Business Manager NEIL S. KRAMER '70 ···················-······-···346-8614--······--·········-···•·Managing Editor JEFF BROWNE '69 ....... ·-··· ................. ._ ...... 346-9973 ............... -....•.....•...... News Editor GARY PREVOST '69 -···········-··---··-·····-···-----·393-7841..--·--·---····------··--··-----Sports Editor STEVE FOX '70 ·······--···················---···--·-·-·346-3Ul9 .. - ..•.......•••..•.•..•. .]'eaturea Editor RICHARD BALAGUR '69 ··--···········-··-··········-··················· .. -····-···Con~;~altlng Editor JOSEPH A. MANN JR. '6·8-·····-···--·--·-····--···-·--···---··-----··--·•·-·····-··--······-Editor Emeritus ,NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1 89.5 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phcone FR 4-8917 The Dutchman and to news of a rape on campus, for which no Union man was responsible. Far from condoning the behav ior described, Ziegler held it up to scorn, at the same time b!an! ing the social conditions whici; contributed to the grossness he; found so offensive. The ACC apparently objects not to the bad taste of the stuc- ents but te the bad taste of the editor for aHowing his pape1· to caB such behavior to the attention of its members. Cor.• cordy is a family paper paid for by the students and prot:· erly confined to recording their heroic exploits to the everlast· ing glory of Minerva. What made the offence still worse was that instead of using the usual embalming f1uid of conventional jour:nalism, Ziegler ch0se to vent his spleen in the style of a Netma:n Mailer. Inert abuse is tolerable, hut metaphor menaces and must be shunned. In the future, Mr. Editor, keep your pages clean. Mr. Ziegler was wrong to comment on behavior that is ,traditio:nal. He was wrong te destroy our conservative image and to de- part from conservative prose. Let it never be said that Cun· cordy brought a blush to a maideH.'s cheek. Fie! Sincerely, Samson Ullman Associate P'fofesscr of English Inflamed To the Editor: The AllcCollege Council's ac- tion Wednesday night is deplor- able and absurd. That select group seized the right to cen- sure the Concordiensis Editor and threaten him further were he to again offend that august body, but I am also the Editor of another campus publication, the 1968 Garnet. I have been proud to stand with the ACC in its wise decision to recon· struct the Convocation system. I have been proud to work with the ACC to readjust social rules and to formulate a solu· to the off\campus housing problems. Unfortunately, the good is fast forgotten and only the bad is left behind to plague any council's reputation. The ACC has jeopardized its position on the campus because of its hasty action Wednesday night. I want to make it clear that I opposed this ACC motion because I be- Good Manners ... lieve in a free student press. CompJ.icated issues of jurisdic- tion are not the issue at hand. The only issue is censorship, 'by any councH, or any individual. Freedom of the press is an encouragement for campus dia- logue. Freedom of the press is granted by the majority be- cause it feels it can withstand unjust criticism, and because it welcomes constructive criticism. Freedom of the press is granted by a majority which does not wish to remained entrenched, but seeks to be continually en- lightened and improved. What, then, are Union men to infer from ACC censorsl:lip? It seems that the ACC and the rest of the \establishment\ racks con- fidence in its image. It seems that they chose to speak for a student body whose feelings are, I hope, quite the oppositee. I mentioned that the ACC~s action was absurd as weH as deplorable. It is clear that the ACC assumed that Mr. Patter- son would respond to its order, and apologize. Mr. Patterson has not done so. Now the ACC must either apologize to him, or demand his resignation. ln the event that the ACC' should clitoose to extend itself further and actual.ly attempt to remove Mr. Patterson, I believe that all Union men must join me to resist sucb action. Rarely do issues arise oH.~ this campus which demand student response. Rarely, even in the light of ridiculous· proposals such as the new 12~point grad- ing system, do issues arise which must not be overlooked. No Union man should accept cen- sorship or abridgment of his rights. None of us would be content to allow any public group to unjustifiably criticize or censor what we write or feel as individuals. Certainly none of us should sit idly by when the machinery of the campus stabs us in the back. '' I repeat, that to me this is- sue is not merely one which involves Mr. Ziegler's article. It is an issue in which our rights as free Union College citizens '' are at stake. Any Union stud- ent who wishes to disuss this matter with me, and any Union students who would like to or- ganize formal reaction in order to wipe the stigma of censor- ship from the campus perman- ently, should try to reach me .1 • either at Concordiensis or 377- 3237. I hope that many of you will respond soon. Jim Ruenstein '68 these lighter weight tropical suits. Why? Because they are tailored in Deansgate's understated natural shoulder construction. Because fabric is a well-disciplined 55% Dacron® polyester and 45% wool blend. Because there are many colors to choose from. From $70.00 beansgate .lJal&' THURSDAY AND FRIDAY TILL 9 · 11 t) '}) IJ f) v I) ' Friday, M Un This : of which 1 Union Col of Econor: students f attend co: who take The s both sexe: Wilbur Ly families, ~ Opportuni Direcl federal g< Bound pre $17,000. T which the and Unim anonymou dence frOJ very few t The t but at lea enrollmen more stud The ! To theE( Ziegler- think you De a To the E< It was find that ity whicl many coil ally electt priately e a negativE cent cens1 ticle is l in the de college i death dar take for 1 article on like what fend his 1 be not 0[] deceitful. need not defending for no n some ind matter ho it appean be accuse L. Ga CAll BADGE STATIC Cl Ml l'rat4 729 E Syra, Oper 8 j Ph: EX 3·

press. E jurisdic- at hand. ·by is an mpus dia- the press be- withstand because it criticism. granted does not en- What, to infer It seems rest ·of con- It seems for feelings oppositee. ACC~s weH as that the Patter- its order, Patterson the ACC to him, ln should further remove that all me to 011: this student in the proposals grad- which No cen- of his would be public criticize or feel inly none by when campus ,, this is- ne which article. It rights e citizens '' stud- isuss this Union to or- in order censor- perman- me or 377- of you '68 tl • II t) IJ. f) IJ \ I) < Friday, May 3, 1968 3 union Never Closes: Stinimer Opportunity- Fraternities: r;;,,;:;@:., .. ;::ii'\W'':fJ;~M!:#{@0~'f'~W1~@l,::i:'fi;'il:'l''~:ii%iF: . Fraternities Annual Integration and Co-Ed Program By ALAN COHEN This summer, besides the summer schooi program, a project ef which too few Union students are aware wni be carried on at Union College. Upward Bound, under the jurisdiction of the Office of Economic OpportuBity, wi:ll hold its summer program to help students from the Tri-City area gain the skills and motivation to attend college. The pregram may already be familiar to those who take part in the year-rot:md tutoring and big hether ~ervice. The students in the summer program, racially mixed and of bo~h sexes, are recruited fro~ Mont Pleasant, Linton, Troy, and Wilbur Lynch (Amsterdam) High Schools. All are from low income families, according to the guidelines set by the Office of Economic Opportunity. \Vote of Confidence\ Director John P. Terry told Concordiensis that although the federal government has cutback funds for many of the Upward Bound projects across the nation, Unian's grant was increased by $17,000. The total cost for the summer program will be $97,561 of which the federal government provides eighty percent ($78,049) and Union College provides twenty percent ($9,512 including an anonymous giEt). Mr. Terry sees the increase \as a vote of confi- dence from the federal government,\ because \we are one of the very few that received an increase in funding.\ The two hundred seventy nationwide programs vary in size, but at least forty students must participate. Union wiLl expand its enrollment from forty pve-twelfth grade students to include twenty more students, pre-eleventh graders using the increase in funds. The Staff The staff, besides Director Terry, will include an Assistant Project Director, a Director of Psychological and Counselling Ser- vices, a Support Psychologist, a Program Coordinator, Seven teachers including one Chemistry, tw(l English, one French, two Math, and one Social Studies, one Nurse, ten tutor-counsellors, and one secretary. The five male tutor-counsellors are Union College students while the females come from colleges in the area and across the country. They wiH be responsible for t1:1toring the studenb and tak- ing part in various cultural and social activities. After the students attend morning classes, afternoens will be spent in various work- shops including art, drama,, mJ..!.sic,. and ~otion pictures. Botil counsellors and students w1ll hve m Davidson House and eat meals in Hale House. College Commitment Referring to the possibility of rioting in Schenectady this sum- mer, Mr. Terry says that \there may be some trouble ... one of the most obvious goals of a preject like Upward Bound is to re- lieve some of the frustration of the poverty and black populations by providing the opportunity for able young people to better themselves through college education.\ Further, he hopes that many will be able to attend Union and believes that it is \clear that there is a college commitment to admit as many of the male Upward Bound students as deemed qualified by the Upward Bound academic policy committee. ALthough the positions in the summer program are now filled, any students who might be interested in participating in next summer's program or in the year-round big brother and tutoring programs can learn more about it from Mrs. Reed in the Upward Bound office. Letters to the Editor Who! To the Editor: Ziegler-just think you are? John Death. who do you A. Osgood '70 Rattle? To the Editor: Union College, where $85,000 is spent to perpetuate illusions, where it is difficult to find more money for books and faculty, where good students and fac- ulty are constantly leaving or wishing to, illusions perhaps are more important. Better to have students in coats and ties who read newspapers, do home- work, and play tic-tac-toe during convocations than unadorned students who enjoy and listen to speakers; better to spend $85,000 on flowering trees and formal gardens which visitors can admire, than get more books in the bookstore, more facilities for the Renaissance of Art we hear so much about. After aU, contributors can see a tree their money helped plant; it is less gratifying to cont;rib- ute to something as intangible as a sabbatical research fund. It was indeed refreshing to find that the intellectual vital- ity whi.ch has supercharged many college campuses has fin- ally electrified Union. Appro- priately enough the action was a negative one. 'The ACC's re- cent censuring of Ziegler's ar- ticle is but one more twitch in the death dance which this college is going through-a death dance which many mis- In closing we find two ironies take for a jig. To defend the brought into clearer light by article on the grounds \I don't the recent ACC decision (not to like what he says but I'll de- mention the fiasco of the ACC fend his right to say it\ would itself.) It becomes ever more be not oniy ludicrous but also apparent that as a group, the deceitful. The article's def~nse faculty, including the many Passing lemonade out to mourn- ers and playing softball during a teach-in are more obscene than any word could ever be. Scott Siegler '69 and Kent Kraft '68 What/ To the Editor: In the annals of journalism, Mr. Ziegler's article stands out \like an• erection in the gym shower.\ (sic) James M. Mallein '70 Why! To the Editor: Mr. Zeigler's article in the April 30 edition of the Con· cordiensis is almost as maudlin as Zeigler's thinking is egocen- tric. Apparently Mr. Ziegler feels that any humor that de- viates from his own humor, or lack thereof, is totally out of place in any academic commun- ity. What Mr. Ziegler failed to glean from the laughter during the movie was the student re' action to the ludicrousness of the mechanics of our society. So while many people left SS 016 feeling refreshed at having rebelled by laughing at the type of society which this movie por- trayed, !VIr. Ziegler left the same room with words like thigh, erection, ejaculation and laugh· ter swimming through the mi- crocosm of his mind. Mr. Ziegler's contempt of the student body's reaction to the \Dutchman\ either shows that he is unaware of the motivations of his fellow students or that he is \truly\ a rebel without a cause. Allan Page '69 Howl To the Editor: With less imagery and rhe- toric Alan Ziegler might be ab!e to write an article worthy of printing. Kimball Huln '70 need not sink to the level of stodgy reactionaries, is more defending freedom of speech, liberal- minded than the squeam- for no matter how offensive ish student body with its per- some individuals find it-no verted sense of propriety and Blither matter how crude and obscene good taste. Furthermore, hOW Hugi1 Allen Wilson, associate professor it appears to some, it cannot can the word obscene or taste- of music and college orgenist, will present be accused of lying But at less be used around this school? the fourth in nis series of recitals at 4 ~~~~;;;..;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;_;;;;~;==============-,, p.m. Saturday in Memorial Chapel. , .-. The recital wi II also serve as the f1nal L. Ga BALFOUR CO. CARL SORENSEN BADGES • lUNGS • FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER <liFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS • KEYS MEDALS • TROPHIES Write or Call l'raternify Jewelers 729 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, N.Y. 13210 Gershon's Sandwiches Cold Cuts Salads Open Tues. - Sun. 8 A.M. to 9 P.M. Ph: EX 3~0617 1600 Union St. event on the long Parents' Weekend calen· dar. Schenectady Printing Co., Inc .. A two-part symposi urn on 8 lack Power sponsored jointly by Tl1eta Delta Chi and Phi Gamma Delta will be held on Monday, May 6 and Monday, May 13. At the May 6 discussion Professor Clare Graves of the Department of Psychology and Professor Sherwood fox of the De· partment of Sociology will discuss the various psychological end sociological as- pect~ of Bleck Power and Racial prejudices. This will be held at Theta Delta Chi at 7:00 p.m. 502 Broadway Mother 377~8838. The following Monday at 7:00 p.m. the second portion of the symposium, in con· junction with the Union College Block Alliance, will be held at Phi Gamma Delta. Guest speakers will include Freeman Rob- inson of The Brothers from Albany, and a Ferro's Restaurant Specializing in Italian • American Food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking Dl 6-9554 1115 Barrett St. representative of the Schenectady Chapter of the N.A.A .. C.P. Mr. Robinson will direct hi~ talk toward the separatist views of Black Power while the N A A C P repra .. sentative will explain the non-violent inte· grationist '.viewpoint. All concerned or interested students end faculty ere urged to attend this symposium and partic:ipcte in t~e discussions immedJ .. ately following the guest speakers. \Swan Song\ by Anton Ci1ekov will be presented in the Nott Memorial Theoter at 10:45 a.m. on Saturday. It will be di· rected by Professor William Merriweather and will feature Jeff DeMunn and Mike Riley, The campus blood drive conducted by PhT Della Theta lost Monday and Tuesday, April 29 and 30, was a \definite success,\ gccording to Bqb Mi.;:hqeh: 'OS, chgirman of the drive. Michaels also !>toted, ··r am extremely pleased with the campus response. This Js a record turn·oul for c blood drive at Union College.\ A total of 233· pints of blood. were do· noted· during the two-day campaign, ·easily surpassing- all previous records. One hun· dred and sixty·one fraternity men donated blood while only forty-four independents from Davidson and Fox Houses responded. Sixty-five freshmen donated, roughly thirty of whom listed fraternity affiliation. fraternity houses which led in percen· !age of donors other than Phi Delta Theta were Phi Gemma Delta with 18 donors out of a membership of 49, Theta Delta Chi with I 0 out of 43. Donors ather than students included coaches, faculty members, staff members from administrctive office!> and the bus driver who brought R.P.I.'s baseball team to Union Tuesday afternoon. The keg of beer offered by Phi Delta to the living unit yielding the highest per- centage of donors will be presented to the ~ residents of third floor Richmond. The Brother; of Phi Delta Theta engi- neered their successful blood drive by as· ...1 signing at lecst one member to visit each DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fih~ Food and legal Beverages 118 • 1 20 JAY STREET there's one place that does it ! • Watch Repairs • Diamonds Reset • Jewelry Repaired WORK DONE • Rings Sized • Engraving • Pearl & Bead Stringing ON THE PREMISES -'Iav JMIUY tJ11a_ COMPANY 315 State Street. Schonoctady FR 4·8219 Parry By JERROLD STRAUSS Paul Vivian, acting as spokesman for the recently formed independent's committee, stated that the new organization would not become a forum for anti-fraternity sentiments. However, a Concordiensis article covering the second meeting of this committee made it quite clear that several anti-fraternity proposals had been made. According to the article, Vivian stated that fraternities seem to have failed in \making the Union student proud of his school.\ Also, a good measure of pride in Union College is the degree of partidpatio:n in school athletics. At least one-half of Union's athletes are fraternity men. Also, on the average, fraternity men eomprise one-half the students in other campus organizations. Academical<ly, the aU-fraternity index is consistently near or slightly above the all men's index. Thus, fraternity men take as much pride in their studies as do other students. Fraternity Matters Another proposal brought before the committee was to delay fraternity rushing and pledging until the sophomore year. This is a step such a committee should not even consider, for several reasons. Rushing and pledging are fraternity matters which can not be determined by independents. Secondly, such a move would be, indeed, anti-fraternity. FinaUy, such a proposal would be un- realistic. To delay rushing until sophomore year would mean isolating a freshman from a majority of the campus community. To prevent freshmen from determining fot themselves whether or not they wish to go to fraternity functions would be to distort their image of student life at Union College, { must also take exception to the statement that \no sooner is a student situated at Union before he must begin giving his loyalty to a sub-organization - a fraternity.\ The freshman at Union has three and one-half months to decide for himself whether or not to join a fraternity. This is a period in which he has no loyalty to any so-called \sub-organization.\ Certainly this lengthy perior is sufficient for any student to become acclimated to Union and to make a carefully considered decision concerning his future with fraternities. Tenor Talent To Turn Tunes Into Treats Steven Cole, '71, tenor soloist, to make his Schenectady debut Saturday. Steven Cole, '71, ranking among the most talented Union students for his ability as a classical tenor, will solo with ·the Northeastern Student Or- chestra in concert this Saturday. He will sing two arias from Mozart's Don Giovanni, Dalla Sua Pace, and II mio tesoro in· tanto, in the role of \Don Gio- vanni.\ Cole's appearance Saturday will be his first lengthy per- formance at Union. His career, starting in New York where he sang at the World's Fair, has been marked by appearances at a number of universiUes, mu- seums, and concert halls. He has also sung before the Gov- ernor of Maryland and the living unit end fraternity. As a result, nearly every student at Union was c;Hr~ctly confronted and presented with details of the bloe>d drive, In each house and living un,it crt effort was made to impress indi~ viduals with the desperate need for blood in the Schenectady qreo. Next Tuesday evening at 4;30 p.m. in Social Sciences 016 will mark the first of a series of ·lectures ·Concerning the mechanics of Investing in the stock market by Josef E. Windbiel, Jr., Bache & Co. representa- tive from Schenectedy. Mr. Windbiel, who has frequently ad- dressed audiences on topics concerning the stock market end who has done the stock market report lor WRGB-TV, is scheduled to deliver six lectures, the topics and times of which will be announced ot c later date. Borry Sheriden, '69, who ar- ranged to have Mr. Windbiel deliver the lecture series, seid that the hour-long talks will be ''informal end at the same time informative.·' They wi II be open to stud- Ma:yor of Baltimore and has also done chorus work in the . Johns Hopkins University Choral Society, the Bach and Handel Society, the Peabody Conservatory Concert Chorus and the Baltimore Symphony. A native of Baltimore, Cole began at the Peabody Conserva- tory where he earned numerous awards in singing competitions. Beginning under the tutelege of Don Doughty, he continued with William Griggsby of Drake University and Theodore Morri- son, a prominent musician in. the Baltimore operatic and classical world. At Union the singer has kept up his abilities as tenor soloist at Saint George's Episcopal C lt u r c h, where he sang in Schubert's lVJass in G as well as the weekly services. Professor Hugh Wilson, his present in- structor, had him slated to solo· in Mozart's Idomeneo and Bee- thoven's Choral Fantasy 2i5h 5h3 Tl33 Dlug q along with the Glee Club at Vassar April 27, as well as the coming orches- tral concert. With a singing command of French Italian German Rus- sian a~d Latin, 'familiarity with Monteverdi, Faure, Bach, Mo- zart, Schubert, Stravinsky and Britten, and a growing reper- toire of Negro spirituals, Cole's possibilities are largely untap- ped. In late May he will be pre- sented by the Arts Department in recital of vocal music from Bach to Gershwin. With Hugh Allen Wilson, associate profes- sor of music and Union's organ\ ist-in-residence as accompanist, :vir. Cole~s recital will constitute his Schenectady debut. ents and fCiculty with general question and answer period after each talk, Sheridan said thot, following ti1e first lecture, subject emphasis end scheduling of subsequent talks would depend on student interest. Ha said that future lectures would broadly concern \more sopi1isticated tech· niqlles of investing with emphasis on fin- ancial planning and fundamental and tech- nical aspects of the stock market.\ \We would like to keep the lecture con· tent and scheduling fairly flexible,\ Sheri- dan said. He added that Mr. Windbiel 1 \is willing to lecture on anything or any ospect of investment that students would be interested in hearing.•• Sheridan said ti1at, due to emphasis on thoo.ry in economics courses at Union, there is little opportunity to learn first- hand how the theory is applied. He said ti1el the reasoning behind scheduling the lectures was that \we want students to have the opportunity to learn about the practical application of theory rather than just the theory itself and no more.\ RITZ RESTAURANT I. 1725 Van Vrc:mlc:en Avenue Featuring - HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS. CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Parties Pizza & Sandwiches at All Hours Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open Daily 11 A.M. to 3 A.M.

ACC Censured; Leiters page 2-3 C.oncordy Sports Choice '68 Results Pagel Batsinen Face Tough W eeli; Lax~nen Drub Ha~nilton 16-3 1 Y 11 · k E h 1 d Host Alfred, Cortland Next· e O\VV\JaC ets, p men ~ nva e Ry LEN Sll\ION round into top form after an The third quarter was mOile By GARY PREVOST The Garnet nine plays three games in the next four days in a drive for a landmark season. Tuesday the Dutchmen were denied their sixth straight vic- tory when rain struck with the N.ine holding an 8-2 lead in the fourth inning against RPI. The Garnet plays Clarkson this af- ternoon and tomorrow takes on Rochester at 2:30~ The Ephmen of Williams invade on Monday at 3:30. In Tuesday's game, which may be replayed as part of a doubleheader at RPI on May 18, the Garnet fell behind 1-0 in the top of the third when the Engineers loaded the bases with one out. However, the Garnet reached the Engineers' ace Watson for five runs in the bottom of the inning with the big blows being a pair of two-run singles by Ken Mer- chant and lVIike Goggin. The latter has taken the starting third base job away from Tom Miller, who was hitting only .154. After the Engineers reached starter Bill Neidel for another run in the top of the fourth, the skies opened up for the .first time and the game was Netmen Lose 6-3 Frosh Split Pair By MIKE REGER The Garnet varsity tennis team, still looking for its first vic- tory, was downed 6·3 by Hobart in Wednesday's match. Union's next contest is an away duel with Stevens on Saturday. Hobart swept the first four singles matches and the first and second doubles. Winning for Union in the singles com- petition were Len Duckworth in the number five position and Jeff South playing in the sixth slot. Both Duckworth and South won in straight sets. In the doubles, Duckworth and South teamed up to win the third dou- bles match by identical sets of 6·2. 6-2. The Union freshmen went down to defeat on Wednesday, losing to the RPI frosh 5-l. The lone victory for Union came as Ray Ahern won his singles match 6-3, 5-7, 6-2. No doubles matches were played. Frosh Bound Back The frosh bounced back on Thursday to crush New Paltz 9-0. Jack Lauroesch, Al Meisel, Ray Ahern, Jack Liu, Dave Schwank, and Bill Collucci tri- umphed in their singles matches l!S did l!ll of the frosh doubles teams. The freshmen's next encoun- ter is with Bard School in an away match on Monday. delayed for 35 minutes. When the clouds broke momentarily, the Dutchmen batted in the bottom of the fourth, scoring three runs and chasing the En- gineer starter. The big blow of the stanza was a booming triple by Dave Hourigan onto the bank in left. As the rains came again, Mike Magee aiiow- ed himself to be picked off second as the Garnet hurried to make the game official. Time was caUed again, however, and the game was never resumed again despite urgings by the Garnet players who warmed up in the rain attempting to in· fluence the umpires' decision. Bob Hallenback started to· '71 Stickmen Win; Siena Falls 14-J The Garnet frosh lacrosse team returned to the win col· umn with a 14-3 romp over the Siena frosh here on W ednes- day. The victory snaps a three- game losing streak and leaves them with a 2-3 record, 5·4 in- cluding scrimages. Their next game is Wednesday at Middle- bury. The junior Dutchmen con- trolled the tempo of the game all the way, and the defense was never really tested over an extended period. Both Jim Howel'l and Rit Galucci played well when they were needed on defense. Ed Green was in the goal for the Garnet. On offense, it was another superlative afternoon. Wayne Christie scored five goals, as did Bruce Dugan, who also add- ed an assist. Ken Lorenze again played well, tallied twice and had five assists. Don Hoover scored once, and Guy Caruso came through with a goal. goal. CNY Lacrosse Syracuse has nearly clinch· ed the title in the Central New York Lacrosse Division, and a strong finish will put Union in second place in the power·laden loop. The Orangemen stand 4-0, having most recently dumped Cortland 13-6, and Hobart 14-4. Their only remaining· test is with Colgate, and the Red Raiders will most likely be outclassed, as has been the rest of the league. Obstacles to a Garnet sec- ond place finish, listed ac- cording to approximate strength, are Hobart, Cort- land, and RPI. The league appears to be well balanced, discounting the leader. STANDINGS Syracuse 4-0 Hobart 2-1 Union 1-1 Cortland 0-1 RPI 0-2 Colgate 0-2 LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian • American Food 1125 BARRETT ST. Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops DIAMANTE'S Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Schenectady Dl 6-9744 Visit Our Cockt~il Bar THE PEANUT STORE Opp. The Brownell Gate on N ott Street Featuring 1 Open Daily 10 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to 1 A.M. Enjoy Our Fine Home PLANTERS HOT ROASTED I· PEANUTS and Nutmeats from all the world. 4Q6 STATE ST. over ' . I I I day's game against Clarkson while Bill Neidel hurls agaiDst the Yellowjackets tomorrow. Rochester is having a rollgh year, being under .500, how- ever, they are playing a 33- game schedule which includes Princeton, Columbia and Cor- nell. The lacrosse team demolish- early season injury, .put five of the same as five goals we11e ed Hamilton Tuesday by a score shots into the nets, while Sam scored to .push the tally to 13-2. 0f 16-3, and gave ear.Jy indica- Dill, taking over Ritterbush's Coach Allison cleared the tion that they are still to li>e post, took credit for four. 'Fad bench, and had a constant reckoned with, despite the loss Knight scored twice, Jim O'Neil string of a1ternates reporting of high scoring senior Steve once, and Doug Duval had two in and out of the game through. Ritterbush. Lee Schneider took assists. So ph Frank Donnini scor- out the fina'l period, as the over the burden of the attack ed his first goal of the season Garnet pushed through three and had his best day of the in the waning moments. more goals, allowing Hamilton s~asen, not.ching three go?Is and The first period was another its final score. Hallenback will also start on Monday if his arm is ready. Otherwise Joe Douglas wHl get the nod. The Ephmen are cur- rently 1-5 after a recent loss to Dartmeuth. eight assists. The stlckmen example of a slow Union star.t. Alfred should provide anoth· host ICAC foe Alfred tomorrow Hamilton scored first and after er easy contest, before the at 2:00, and face Central New Schneider had tallied unassist- heart of the schedule is taken York Division foe Cortland State ed the Continentals retaliated on. Cortland whipped last here at 3:00 on Tuesday. causing the ouster of starting year's squad 14-5, and is en- Bruce Westby, starting to goalie Andy Bittker. Ken Auer- jeying another good season. Golfers Second at State Tourney Hine Shoots 11 For Third Place By JOHN DENEFRIO The Garnet linksmen finished second in a field of six in the Albany State Golf Tournament Wednesday at the McGregor Coun- try Ctub, o:.en1n John li.me, p1aymg good consistent gol!, led the squad with a 77 which tied for third in medalist honors, but the ).>uwertul Nena team led by rneelaust Bruce Cook ( 74) and ranked local amateur, Chuck Murphy ( 76), proved once again too much for the Garnet linksmen. .Rtch Horsman had an S1 while Doug Vergith (83) and Ward Blllm (84) rounded out the four man tournament team for a total of 325. Blum's score faHs to show the fine comeback he made em the back nine coming horne with a one over par 37. After playing two matches and the Albany Tourney, Coach Bob Leonard had decided to make several changes in h1s lineup . Seniors Rich Horsman and John Hine are movmg to the number one and two }lositions on the squad. Coach Leonard says the ex- perience of both these golfers m match play has prompted the move. Match play is unlike open or tournament golf in that the golfer is not playing against the course of the field but an in- dividual with the number of holes won the determining factor. With these changes and continued good play by the whole team, the remainder of the season looks favorable to the Union seven. Both. RPI and Albany State were seven strokes behind the Garnet in Wednesday's tournament. The linksmen play RPI on next Wednesday at Troy and State on the 17th of this month. Psi U, Phi-Ep Unbeaten After the first three weeks of intramural softball, Psi Up- silon and Phi Epsilon Pi seem headed for their respective league championships and a meeting in the final champion- ship game. There are no otner unbeaten teams remaining, al- though ten teams presently have only one loss. Psi Upsilon, solid at every position, is led by pitcher .Bill Porter. On their way to a 4·0 record they have already de- feated last year's league champs Phi Sigma Delta 7-3, stomped Beta Theta Pi 14-1, and rallied to beat Phi Sigma Kappa f>-2. Delta Upsilon appeared to be a strong challenger until they fell to Chi Psi on a last inning hom- er by Dale Long. Phi Epsilon Pi is also led by an outstanding pitcher, Paul Gerber, and also stand at 4-0. They crushed Delta Chi 17-3, Rugby Here Sat .. The rugby club faces Albany Law Saturday at noon on Li· brary Field. The ruggers de· feated Albany Law last fall. -- , __ _ and Phi Delta Theta 24-1, and then squeezed by Alpha Delta Phi 4-3 and Sigma Chi 4-2 with Barry Powers driving in the winning runs in both games. Last year's champs Delta Phi were upset by Phi Gamma Delta 4-3 to fall behind in the race. In the independents softball league, Team 1, powered by the slugging of Dennis Hull, and Team 6, led by Eugene Kokot and Carl Legregni, are the only unbeaten teams at the halfway point of the season. The PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP 262 Saratoga Road MAYFAIR SHOPPING CENTER At the Sign of the Red Neon Pipe TUES. thru SAT. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. ell so THURS. and FRI.: 7 to 9 PM SCOTIA, N. Y. P'hone 399-1630 BOOK SALE Schaffer Library TUESDAY, MAY 7, 1 P.M. 25¢ PEl VOL. Sales Subject to N.Y.S. Sales Tax Serving UniGn For 34 Years SILVER DINER of Schenectady ERIE BOULEVARD 6 A.M. - 11 P.M.. 346-9522 Excellent Food and Informal Atmosphere ·-------------------------------------------- back took over in the nets, They fell to powerful Syracuse and showed some of last sea- 13-6. son's form, keeping the visi- r------------- tors scoreless until very late in SCHEDULE the contest. Westby took a pass from Schneider and tied up the game late in the first period. Big Second Quart~r At the outset of the second stanza the Garnet took control of the game, and outscored their adversaries 6-0. Dill scored three times, Westby twice, and Knight once, as Schneider picked up three as- sists during the period. The home attack riddled the Ham- ilton defense with swift passes and goad ball control, to push the score to 8-2 at the half. This Week's Games Today Baseball, Clarkson al Union, 3:00 p.m. Tomorrow Lacrosse: Alfred at Union, 2:00 p.m. ·Baseball: Rochester at Union, 2o30 p.m. Tennis: l:Jnion at Stevens Track, Union (V and F) at Middlebury Monday Baseball: Williams at Union, 3:30 p.m. Tennis: Union (f) ot Bard Tuesday lacrosse: Cortland at Union, 3o30 p.m. Tennis: Union at Middlebury Last Week's Results Lacrosse Union 16, Hamilton 3 Tennis Hobart 6, Union 3 DlJNGAREE- MANIA © The which is a neurosis suffered by many of the Pro- prietor's custom, who find an ever larger wardrobe of dungarees necessary to comfort and goocl appear- ance out of doors. We prescribe to cure this malaise, in a wide range of fabrics and colourings. 326 STATE ST, 377-3061 NEW HOURS: THURS. TO 9:00 DAILY TO 5:30 - Krall In Pr Kent K Benjamin at Prize : Top w went to 1 and clas~ Andrew R0bert 0 ton Sten gene Yuc can Poet valued at ing from candidate in classic The Jo ered the comme:ntE by James ing cond regard to The Fr the seni< greatest s field, wei Benjamin Three 1 supervise1 English, Prizes we Grayson, and; $10C · Jesse W. mention. The AI awarded : L. c. JODI Barlow oi Awards lowing fiE istry, hist neering, · German, J The LE presented award is or organi munity tl of freedo press, or is given l ternity. Wl By Three~ to Indian ocra'tic P five com five colle G The tl: WRUC I director; are cove candidate Kennedy, and are c lndianapc are maki After 1 in radio news re.(: ers, the of WRUC then rei: various r For a c sold the for the p WFAS,' port; ~ Kingston. stations

was mo11e goals we11e to 13-2. the constant reporting through- as the three Hamilton anoth- the is taken last is en- season. Syracuse 3:00 p.m. 2:00 p.m. 2:30 p.m. Middlebury 3:30 p.m. 3:30 p.m. ·• Pro- robe a r- aise, Opinion Page3 Olton Warns Page2 Founded at Union College 1877 --~~~~------------------------------------~~--~----~------------------------·- VOL. 97 - No. 27 SCHENEClADY, NEW YORK, TUESDAY, MAY 7, 1968 PRICE 15 CENfS Kraft Sweeps Kudos In Prize Day fete By STEVEN COLE Kent Kraft, James Rubenstein, and Benjamin Volinski were big winners at Prize I)ay, last Saturda~. Top winner in number of prizes went to Kent Kraft, a senior English and classics major. Kraft won The Andrew Avchibald, George Catlin, R0bert O'Neale, Daniel Pullman, Mil- ton Sternfeld, Horatio Warner, Eu- gene Yudis, and Academy of Ameri- can Poets awards; the prizes were valued at $1,925, and categories ran~­ ing from \the best essay\ to \the A.B. candidate with the highest standing in classics.\ The Joseph Daggett Prize, consid- ered the most \sought after\ award, commeDted Dean Huntley, was won by James E. Rubenstein for \outstand- ing conduct and character without regard to scholarship.\ The Frank Bailey Cup, awarded to the senior who has rendered the greatest service to the College in any field, went to senior English major Benjamin Volinski. Three prizes for essays by seniors. supervised by the Department of English, The William Allen Essay Prizes were won by Kent Kraft, Paul Grayson, and Gary P. Van Graafeil- and; $100, $50, and $25 respectively. · Jesse W. Harkless received honorable mention. The Alliance F r a n c a i s e Prize, awarded in memory of the late Prof. L. C. Jones, was copped by James Barlow of the senior class. Awards were stipulated for the fol- lowing fields: political science, chem- istry, history, religion, Spanish, engi. neering, botany, psychology, classics, German, fine arts, and geology. The Leonard Suskind Award was presented to Prof. Clair Graves. The award is given to the member of, or organization in, the College com- munity that best forwards the cause of freedom of speech, religion, the press, or social tolerance. The award is given by the Phi Sigma Delta Fra- ternity. Council Recotnntends O·ne Pass- Fail Per Year; Condentns ACC Threat Last night The Student Coun- cil voted to recommend that the college allow one course yearly to be taken on a pass-fail basis, unanimously passed a resolution calling the All-College Council's recent action regarding Concor- dlensis unwarrented and unac- ceptable, and called for the es- tablishment of an All-College Academic Committee (.ACA.C). council; the body reaffirmed its staml in opposition to the new system by a vote of 7-4 with 10 abstentions, and proposed the pass-fail modification. It was evi- dent throughout the meeting t hat much opposition to the grading system resulted from the fact that students were not con- sulted prior to the passage. Un-Censure Jhe 'Old Chapel Collection' of .fine art opens Frriday. After a heated discussion of the new grading system, at which Prof. Michael Shinagel, chairman of the English department, was present at the invitation of the A resolution, introduced by Concordlensis editor Richard E. Patterson Jr., '70, labelling the ACC's threat to call for his resig- nation \unwarranted and unac- ceptable\ was passed unanimous- ly. 'The resolution further said that the Student Council \will not tolerate attempts by the ACC to act as a censor to the student press\ and rejected ACC juris- diction over Concordiensis. An amendment by Gerald Grau, '68, recommended that the ACC re- scind those parts in its motion calli11g for Patterson to apologize and threatening to demand his resignation. IFC Sponsors Arts Weekend By PETER J. WEINGOLD M. PAUL ANDREWS III With the hope of establishing mu- tual communication between various colleges beyond the purely academic arena Union's Interfraternity C()uncil is sponsoring an Art Exhibition and Informal Conferences for six partici- pating colleges in New England. This is the primary idea behind the upcoming Arts Weekend, the first of its kind in the history of Union - according to Dan Mead who is organ- izing the event for the Interfraternity Council. \This is the first time that the fraternities are working together to sponsor a College event\ said Dick Amesbury, Fresi<lent of the Inter- fraternity Council Mead stated that the reasons for this welcome innova- tion are twofold: \We hope to establish this as att annual event on the Union College Campus, and to establish mutual com- munication between various local col- leges.\ He added that ·~although we hope that we're initiating something that will be an annual event, it doesn't appear that the Interfraternity Coun- cil wiH sponsor this every year. De- pending upon the reaction of Union and the other sch()ols, however, we hope to have something 1 i k e this every year.\ The events for the 'Arts Happening' which will take place this coming weekend, May 10, 11 and 12 are being totally financed by nearly $1,000 pro- vided by the Interfraternity Council. The Council gets its funds from dues charged to each fraternity on a per man basis. In the future, Mead hopes to get corporate help in paying for the Ex- hibition. \Next year we'd like to get local corporations to underwrite this event. This is done at other schools in other cities, and besides l:Jeing a direct aid to the colleges it can be a great bit of advertising propaganda for the corporations.\ Continued on Page 3 Rabbi Sandmel, New Testament Specia:fist To Speak on Judaism And Christianity \Judaism and Christianity: Overlap and Difference\ is the topic of a lecture to be given by Dr. Samuel Sandmel, a reform Rabbi, at the convocation Thurs- day at 8:00 P.M. ACAC James Rubenstein, '68, intro- duced a motion passed 19-0 with 1 abstention, calling for the es- tablish the All-College Academic Committee to bring to.gether stu- dents, faculty, and administra- tion in discussion of academic questions, as proposed by a re- cent Concordiensis editorial. Charters Approved WR UC Staff Mentbers Rabbi Sandmel, a specialist in New Testament, is Professor of Bible and Hellenistic Literature at Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion at Cincinnati, Ohio. He will spend Thursday and Friday on the campus, participating in classes in Classics, Philosophy, and Comprehensive Education. Also approved by the Council were the charters of the Student Wives Association, the Math Club, and the North End Organ- ization. Report Front Indiana By ALLEN GARTNER Three staff members of WRUC flew to Indiana Sunday to report the Dem- ocratic Presidential Primary race for five commercial radio stations and five collet:1e stations. and Syracuse. WRUC will also car.ry these reports. The money is being used to pay for the trip. The three will return to Union on Wednesday. After receiving his bachelor's degree from the University of Missouri, Rabbi Sandmel completed his Ph.D. at Yale. He did his rabbinical sttidy at Hebrew Union College, and was ordained there. After directing the Hillel Foundation at Yale and later teaching at Vanderbilt, he became a member .of the faculty and, for nine years, Provost at Hebrew Union College. Two years ago the college named him Distinguished Service Professor, and the University of Missouri awarded him its distinguished alumni citation. Rabbi Sandmel's books include: A Jewish Understanding of the New Testa- ment; The Genius of Paul; The Hebrew Scripturt>s: An Introduction! to 'their Literature and Religi&us Ideas; We Jews and Jesus; Herod: Profile of a Tyrant; and We Jews and You Christians: An Inquiry into Attitudes. An amended Club Sports Charter, allowing for the junior and senior members. of the Club Sputs Board to be elected by cluh sports representatives, was also passed. The three hour meeting was tl':e longest in recent history. Gene, Bobby and Rog Ephtnen Fall As Unbeaten Skein Reaches 8 The three reporters, Bob Kiliian, WRUC president; Dick Roth, news director; and newsman Phil Robinson, are covering Indiana's favorite son candidates, Eugene McCarthy, Robert Kennedy, Gov. Branigan respectively, and are centering their efforts around Indianapolis, where the candidates are making their final drives. Beepers After receiving periodic \beepers\ in radio lingo, phoned-in and taped news reports from Lhe tl1ree report- ers, the production engineering staff of WRUC cuts and edits the tapes and then relays the information to the various radio stations. $300 Fee For a combined fee of $300 WRUC sold the privilege of news coverage for the primary to WRKL; New City; WF AS, White Plains; WICC, Bridge- port; WPUT, Brewster; WGHQ, Kingston; and to the college radio stations of Colgate, MIT, Williams, The Garnet nine extended its un- beaten streak to eight yesterday, with a fine 10-9 comeback victory over Wil· liams. The team had extended the streak over the weekend with vic· tories over Clarkson and Rochester. Yesterday, after falling victim to an eight-run third inning, which staked the Ephmen to an 8·3 lead, the batsmen rallied behind the fine relief pitching of Joe Douglas and tied the score at 9-9 in the seventh. The Gar- net scored the winning run in the eighth on Tom Miller's sacrifice fly following Mike McGee's booming triple on to the track in right field. Jump to Early Lead The Garnet had jumped to a 3-0 lead in the second inning, with the important blow being a two-run sin- gle by Hourigan after four consecll· tive free passes by the first of four Williams pitchers. Bob Hallenbeck, working with just two days rest, was the victim of three solid hits, three errors, and two base· on-balls before he was lifted in favor of Douglas with no one out in the disasterous third. Douglas worked his way out of the inning, and pitched seven strong innings, allowing just one more run while striking out sev- en, including four in the last two innings. Despite being down by 8-3, the Gar· net nine fought back with three runs in the fourth on singles by Hourigan and Fearce followed by an error. a bases loaded walk, a ground ball, and a wild pitch. After the Ephmen, who are 2-6, scored in the sixth. the Garnet bats- men tied the contest with three runs in the seventh. The key hit of that inning was a tw()·out single by Mike Solomon, which plated two runs with the aid of a throwing error. Ken Pearce then tied the game with a double to left, setting the stage for the dramatic eighth inning. Strong Four-hitter Hallenbeck pitched a strong four· hitter and drove in twu run::; llimscli with the aid of tw!> singles and a double to subdue Clarkson 4-1 on Fri- day. Jim Wilson added two insurance runs for the Garnet in the seventh, as he singled with the bases loaded and two out. Saturday, the Garnet raked Roches- ter's number one starter for five runs in the first five innings, and waltzed to an 11-1 win behind the strong pitching of Bill N eidel, who struck out nine. The Dutchmen's 10-hit at- tack was led by Ken Merchant, Mike McGee, 'and Ken Pearce. Me:rchant had three hits and a pair of RBI's, while McGee chalked up three RBI's and hit a 400-foot home run to the base of the scoreboard in .right .field. Ken Pearce stroked his fourth and fifth doubles of the season. St. Lawrence is the Garnet's next opponent, as they invade Alexander Field next Saturday afterioon. The Larries are the defending ICAC champions, and recently ran off a four-game win streak which included a 6-4 win over RPI. However, the Saints were routed by Clarkson 16-4 in an early-season ICAC contest. F()llowing Saturday's game, the Gamet will finish their season with four games on the road. The nine travels to Norwich and Middlebury before finishing the regular season with a doubleheader at RPI on the Saturday of Spring Weekend. Ken Merchant bats in the Garnet nine's initial tolley in the 11-1 win over Roc hester Saturday.

2 Report From Indiana By RICHARD BALAG UR Fort Wayne, Ind. - The quest goes on as volunteers for Senators Eugene McCarthy and Robert Kennedy strive. to overcol'll;e he advantage of \favorite son\ Roger Branigan to wm the states 63 votes at Lhe Democratic National Convention. More than that is the psychological actvantage to be gained or lost in the first {'onfrontation between McCarthy and Kennedy. Students from Bennington, Middlebury, and Williams joined local students from l'nion, Albany State, Skidmore and Russell- Sage for the long 13-hour bus ride here to werk for McCarthy. 34 students seven of them from Union, spent a long, and mostly sleeples~. night on the bus .. Girls from Benn~ngto1:1 pro- vided the main entertainment startmg at 8 p.m. until 2 In the morning when they ran out of folk songs. At Fort Wayne headquarters the students_ are exuberant with an infectious enthusiasm. Our headquarters 1s a large, sparsely decorated store tront, staffed by four full-time volunteers who are coordinating the efforts of the hundreds of weekend volun- teers. In addition to briefing the volunteers, estimated at over 350 for this area and assigmng areas to be canvassed, the staff has arranged tra~sportatwn, housing and food - the inevitable peanut butter and jeHy. Finally Pro All for McCarthy have a sense of purpose, feeling they .can finally act wnstructively. One stude_nt summe~ up. th~ feelmg: \Finally we are working for somethmg we believe m mstead of always being anti, always protesting.\ Another student a grad student from Syracuse said that be- fore McCarthy, \I was completely outside the system. I was ready to go to the streets, or to Canada. Maybe democracy does work, I'm going to give it another try.\ In the backroom of the headquartc~s, a freshman fr<!m MicJ:li- gan State, with long hair and a flowl~& m!lstache, tnms J:lalr, sideburns, beards and mustaches to s.pccificatl?ns. Two on :f~H~ay and at least a dozen on Saturday submitted to his shears, sacrificmg their facial growth to his barber shears. Vern Newton, a graduate student in .European History ?t Syracuse's Maxwell School explained. the att1tude o.f the peopl~ m Indiana. \There's a lot of anti feeling here, partiCularly agamst Kennedy but also towards McCarthy. There is no exuberant pro feeling for anvone. · Few Really Know \Branigan commands a lot of Hoosier loyalty in the rural areas but not in the cities. There's a lot of loyalty to the state, which will determine to a large extent voting on Primary Day.\ Volunteers drift back into the headquarters in groups of four and five. Some are depressed, others mildly elated; none feel they have saved the world. All report back with counts of voters for McCarthy and tales of individual voters. Pete Feldstein reported canvassing was \all right, Most people just don't know or are undecided.\ Two more canvassers report: \If we can make any projection :\lcCarthy is going to do very well.\ Another girl reported unhappily, \Most of the people I talked to were old people who just wanted to talk. One spent a half-hour complaining she couldn't vote for her brother when he ran for Sheriff. Another told me she \ain't going to vote for no com- munist.\ A Big Edge Kennedy affluence shows in every phase of his campaign, especially his headquarters and volunteers. The headquarters in Fort Wayne consist of the entire Mezzanine of the Hotel Keenan, a large suite of rooms with a half a dozen offices and a staging area for volunteers. In Detroit Kennedy offered a free weekend for any volunteers together with hotel rooms. With a bus costing $10 from New York Kennedy could only get 25 volunteers. A student from Columbia explains the main Kennedy effort is in the New York area. \Our big push is a rally in Syracuse and the distribution of buttons in New York. We're just starting to get bussons on the street now. The reception was hostile at first, but is getting better as time goes on. McCarthy has been working hard since November Cin New York) and has a big edge.\ Blither On t:iprmg Weekend the Dav- Jd~on Entertainment Committee will sponsor a eorktail party and a hand party in the Fox House lounge and courtyard. The cock- tail party will be held from 4:30 to 6:00 PM, and the band party from 9:30 to 1:00 AM. A band will be present at both parties. · Mixed drinks will be served at the cocktail party, and a liquor- punch will be served at the band party, as well as food at both. This party is open to all Un- ion students and their dates, for a charge of $3.00 per couple, a charge which covers both par- ties. Tickets will be available from the following: Bill Dough- erty, 205 South; Mike Fishman, 351 Davidson; Paul Fox, 315 West; Ed Grandbois, 229 West; Paul Vivian, 318 Richmond: Dave Zapata, 116 Fox. The Union College Mounte- banks announce that there are three female roles as yet uncast PuL11slwd Tm•s•lnys and F'rldays dur- ing the ~ehool y<>nr hy the Student Body of I.:nion Colle~e. Schenectady. N. Y. National Advertising Represen- tativP: !':ationHI F:ituratlnnfll Adver· tlsing Servlre Inc.. 360 L~xlngton Ave. ::-: Y.C:. F.:ditorial Offke. Bran- for the May 29, 30, June 1 pro- duction of Edward Albee's The Am~rican Dream. Women inter- ested in audtioning for these parts are asked to contact The- atre Director William Meri- wether at 346-4098 or 377-4026. Correction: An informal stock market lecture series, \Mechan- ics of the Market,\ will be given by Joseph Windbeil starting this Wednesday. The free series will be held in Social Sciences 16 at 4:30 P.M. PSI Upsilon Fraternity in vites all faculty and students to a Pre-Arts Weekend Opening of Union College Artwork at the old chapel. Thursday, from 3:30 to 5:30. Sherry will be served. Anyone interested in forming a Parachuting Club is asked to contact Jim Duncan in 316 West. Experienced jumpers only. ner HousP. rnton College. 'Publicallon Office, Hchenerta<ly Printing Com- nany, 50 2 Broa<lway. Entered In the Schenectady Post Office as Second C'IHss MAll. Subscription 15c a copy; $:; a year delivered anywhere In tl'e t:nlted States. ~ENIOit BOARD HICf!,\ RIJ E PA'I'TERSO:-:. JH. '70 ........ 346·8614... . ... Editor-in-Chief D. PETER DROTMAN '69 .......................... 372-9730 ........................ Buslness Manase1 NBJT, B. Kfllu\I@R ';o ........................ 34G-8614 .......................... Manag!ng Editor· JEFF BROWNE '69.. .. .. 346-9973.. . ........ News Editm GARY PREVOS'l' '69 .................................. 393-7841 ............................... .Sports Editor STEVE FOX '70 .......................................... 346-3019 ........................... Features Editor RICHARD BALAGlJR '69 .............................................................. Consulting Editor JOSEPH A. M.Al'IN JR. '68 ................................................................ Editor Emeritus LE.TTERS And Now To the Editor: 1 would like to clarify some misunderstood points about the ::,tudent Council proposal coH· cermng racial imbalance at Un- Ion that was brought before the AH-Collegc Counc1l last week. The proposal, as I originaUy presented it, was as follows: 1} give support to the recentty- tormed union College Black Students Alliance 2) Discuss m the All-College Council the question of racial imbalance at lJ nion and the ro:e that the col- :ege should play in correcting the situation. As a possible starting point for discussion, 1 inciuded a num- ber of suggestions, which were c4ear1y not put forth as propos- als. 1 admit that the proposal was somewhat \vague and amor- phous\ but I wanted to see an Immediate and vigorous discus- ~lon of this issue on all levels of campus life. In the two weeks since my pn;.posal was put forth, student concern has been shown at the Teach-In, by a petition, and at the student body meet· mg last Thursday. I fear, however, that Union, like the Federal government, has become quite mixed-up m the importance of its priorities. Is it not ridiculous for Union traternity men to be playing softball as a backdrop for a teach-in on the racial crisis? Is it not ridiculous for a student body meeting to be attended by aln.ost as many Glens Falls high school students as Union men? Is it not ridiculous for $84,000 to be spent on a campus beau· tdication program when Union could so desperately use this money in other areas? And, tinally, is it not utterly ridicul. ous tor the All-College Council to waste its valuable time cen- suring a newspaper editor in- stead of facing up to Union's real problems? I call on the white community at Union College, of which I am by no means exempt, to step forward now and meet its re- sponsibilities as human beings, and make a meaningful commit- n~ent to Black America. If steps are not taken now to stem the tide of injustice, then this so- ciety, to use Professor Gado 's term, will not \stand the test of the marketplace.\ Edward D. Blechner '6::J Mad To the Editor: The biggest hurdles to Union College student government are the students who govern. After attending my first student coun- cil meeting, this was evident to me, even more so than the fact that Dr. Shinagel was not inter- ested in the student point-l>f- view whatsoever. The student council proved their ineptitude in general through their voting without thinking on at least two separ- ate occasions. First the council \called the question\ almost un· animous,y on a motion which ten members later decided wasn't worthy of their vote, either positive or negative. Why didn't these s t u d e n t s vote against calling the question, if they felt that it did not warrant taking a stand? Later the council called the question on a motion to call a student strike in protest of the new grading system. They as- sumed a negative vote from the general faculty meeting, not al- lowing that body to make amends to the student body. Also the motion was called to a vote without any specifics being mentioned. Nearly every mem- ber of the council must have voted without thinking at all. No Thought To the Editor: It is very interesting to note that the President of the Stu- dent Body has praised the re· cent ACC action censuring the Concordy's printing Mr. Zeig- ler's article as \a significant widening of the area of concern of the ACC.\ Is the ACC so starved for areas of concern that it must challenge the integrity of the editors of our newspaper, challenge their right to deter· mine the style and content of the material they publish? Does. the President of the Student Body feel he has spoken for the students when he called for dry, 11ncontroversial columns in Con· cordy? I think not. I also wonder if the ACC's de· cisiort means that from now on artic:c that might offend the .\CC, which now seems to have set itself up as the arbitor for maintain1ng the \responsibility of campus publications.\ Is not the Letters to the Editor column a sounding boar.d for our reac- tions to an item? No institution has the right to act for us in such a personal matter. Un- fortunately the ACC when label- ing the article \a slander of the ·whole c o l l e ge community\ didn't stop to consider what their own action was. David L. P·csner '71 Anti Kennedy To the Editor: On a recent Tuesday there was a meeting of Kennedy sup\ porters where Professors Board, Hansen and Berk anncunced their support for Mr. Kennedy. While assessing the attributes of this candidate Prof. Berk closed his remarks on the high point that \there is no one better at breaking heads than Robert Kennedy.\ Then it was agreed, that Mr. Kennedy would indeed have a tough time getting his programs through the Congress. Considering that this was a pro- Kennedy n:eeting, I have to take these staterrents at face value and not propaganda of the op- position. These professors have built an excellent case against Mr. Kennedy showing that he wou:d be an ineffective Presi- dent with no tact or diplomatic inclinations. Thank you, Pro- fessors. You have done the com- munity a giaN.t service in show- ing the real Kennedy, Philip Ball '70 Adieu To the Editor: As I am a senior of this col- lege and have little inclination toward becoming involved nor even responding to the misguid- ed cravings of some members of our faculty and administration, I am somewhat put out by my present behavior. For despite my totally defunct concern re\ garding this institution, I am forced by some foolish whim to make a rather pointed observa- tion about the proposed 12 point grading system. I know full wen that this is an action uni- quely misaligned to the nature of my character which for the past four years has allowed me to endure and suffer a college atmosphere of abominable pres- sure and grade tension. And now our dear overseers have seen fit to enhance and ulti- mately foster the construction of a grade-point machinery that can only snap the overly taut strings of remaining sanity. In- stead of moving in the direction uf an open-minded and dynamic institution, the)' chose to Ln· tomb themselves once again in a holocaust of mediocrity and pettiness. Union, throughout its history, has exhibited a marked propensity for making the wrong decision at a crucial time. So again we bear witness to this inescapab!e fact; a fact which will continue to cause this es- tablishment to remain a third rate improvisor among Ameri- can Colleges. Union is hardly moving ahead if anything and the <:hanges whieh Dr. Martin \envisions\ are in the distant clouds. Do not he duped by a cluster of new buildings which were sorely needed for better than a quarter of a century. What good is a solid structure when it is the state of mind \1 hich is crumbling? Let me as- sure cur noble overseers that they have indeed succeeded in crucifying the entire student body through their fit of mis- calculation. I bid a jolly farewell to it all. K£'nneth R. Wilkes '68 424 State Street editors must fear printing an '--------------' Tuesday, May 10, 1968 Olton Warns Against Excesses Dean of Students Charles Ol- ton said Monday that he wou'd issue a ban on future large rock and roll concert<; if there is widespread drinking and dis- order at the Spring Weekend concert. The Dean said the drinkin~ situation was brought to h·~ .. , tention foi:lowing the Wi'so1 Pickett concert on AprH 27. · l- though he did net attend the concert, H was reported to h'm that things becawe rhaofc. There was much drinkin£>\ bv the students present, he added, even though college :vegulati<'n:Js forbid the consumption of alco• holic beverages in public places. In addition, the .stage nearly cellapsed when students climbed upon it to dance. O'ton and about a dozeN. other facu ty 1r. embers wi'Jil be present :<t the Spring Weekend concert. If a few individuals are observ- ed drinking or involved in un- acccr tab'e behavior, they will aurear before the Discipline C0mmitte-e. However, if disor- cler!y b~havior is widesp!!ead, the n:on~ drastic action will be take '· Olton emphasized, \We :t're not asking people not t(;) have hm, but we only want them to be acceptable.\ FROM THE HALLS OF PROTOZOA This column, normally a treasHrehouse of twhikly quips and slapdash japery, has now been appearing in your campus newspaper for fourteen year::J, and if T have learned one thing in these fcmrteen long years, it is not to try to he funny in the last column of the semester. With final exams looming obscenely close, you don't want jokes; you want help. So today, foregoing levity, I give you a quick cram course iH the subject you are all flunking. I refer, of course, to biology. Biology is divided into several phylla, or classes. First is the protozoa, or one-celled animal. Protozoa can be taught simple things like bringing in the newspaper, but when shopping for pets it is best to look for aN.imals with at least two cells, or even four if your yard has a :lienee around it. Another popular class of animals is the periphera-a shadowy category that borders often on the vegetable. Take, for example. the sponge. The sponge is definitely an animal. The wash-cloth, on the other hand, is definitely not. Next we come to the arthropoda, or insects. Most people find insects unattractive, but actually there is exquisite beauty in the insect world if you trouble to look. Take, for instance, the lovely insect poems of William Cullen Sigafoos- Tumbling Along u•ith the Tumbling Tumblebug and Fly Gently, Sweet Aphid and Gnats My Mother Caught Me. Mr. Sigafoos. alas, has been inactive since the invention of DDT. 0 ur next category is the mollusca-lobsters, shrimp, and the 1ike. Luustet·s ure generally found under rocky projec.:- tions on the ocean bottom. Shrimps are generally found in a cil·cle around a small bowl c.:ontaining cocktail sauce. Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades are generally found at any counter where Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades are sold. I mention Personna Blades because the makers of Per- sonna Blades pay me to write this column, and they are inclined to get edgy if I neglect to mention their product. Some get double edgy and some single, for Personna Blades come both in double edge style and Injector style. Mind you, it is no burden for me to mention Personna, for it is a blade that shaves quickly and cleanly, slickly and keenly, sera tchlessly and matchlessly. It is a distinct pleas- ure to shave with Personna Blades and to write about them but sometimes, I confess, I find it difficult to work the commercial into a column. Some years ago, for ex- ample. I had the devil's own tirng working a Personna plug into a column about Alexander the Great. The way I finally managed it was to have Alexander say to the Oracle at Delphi, \Oracle I have tasted all the world's pleasures, ret 1 am not content. Somehow I know there is a joy I have missed.\ To which the Oracle replied, \Yes Alexander, there is such a joy-namely Pe1·sonna Blades-but, alas for you, they will not be invented for another 2500 years.\ Whereupon Alexander fell into such a fit of weeping that Zeus finally took pity and turned him into a hydrant ... Well sir, there is no question I sold a lot of Personnas with this ingenious commercial, but the gang down at the American Academy of Arts and Letters gave me a mighty good ·razzing, you may be sure. But I digress. Back to biology and the most advanced phyllum of all-the chordata, or vertebrates. There are two kinds of vertebrates : those with vertical backbones and those with horizontaL Generally it is easy to tell them apart. A fish, for instance, has a horizontal backbone, and a man has a vertical backbone. :But what if you run into a fish that swims upright or a man who never gets out of the sack? How do you tell them apa·rt? Science struggled with this sticky question for years before Sigafoos of M.I.T. came up with his brilliant solution: offer the crea- ture a pack of Personna Blades. If it is a fish, it will refuse. If it is homo sapiens, it will accept-and the more sapient ~~~~ ' And now you know biology, And now, for the fourteenth time, aloha. -1:· * * © 19tS, Mnl< Shulman Tlie makers of Personna, The Electro-Coated blade, have .ertjoyed bringing you another year of Old Max. From us too, .aloha. · 1!), ftJesday M With race emer1 our nation coom for 1 ~l1ese peoi electroma~ all aimed middle cia: name prod as a dime1 the ad maJ We li md where md final! lJasebaU .. ,1indered : :·anging fr 1ve learn 1 consume ' normal PI firmly ph clearly ot Negro rer Yet t lasting sa complex I rebel, bee existence divert OUI men and together i the ketch those cra2 the first I ing for a role, it is for learni in the hoi Here - Enroll Coron1 tinctiv mon. line ti of oth c Dodge 1 To he for th Dart ( 440 1'1 you c: I' '\\ Dodge All tt guish stripe along mode class/ up a: Burnt

ses 11ic places. ge nearly ·ts climbed ozen other be present ,d concert. tre observ- red in un- they will Discipline , if disor- ·idespread, m will be ized, \We •le not t(;) mly want le.\ l a ulman Boys!\ OA ly quips n your I have ,; not to r. With ;jokes; k cram :fer, of ;, First can be •er, but Js with 9. :lienee hera-a ;etable. tely an ely not. people quisite .ke, for Cullen blebug Uother nee the np, and projec:- •und in ::wuce. nerally ainless Jf Per- tey are roduct. rsonna t• style. ·sonna, dyand ; pleas- about o work for ex- la plug finally acle at 1sures, I have ~ander, Jas for rears.\ 1g that mt ... IS with at the nighty vanced :re are kbones II them 1e, and minto out of uggled o6s of a crea- ~efuse. ~pient, teenth c Sl1ulrnnl1 blade, ( ltfa.x. r~.~esday May 10, 1968 Extermination: By A. RUSSEI:.L JACOBS With the coming summer, the extermination of the Negro race emerges as a possible final solution to the racial conflicts of our nation. The militant stands of the ghetto young leave little coom for negotiation. They will wait no longer. What has pushed ~!lese people so far has been the incessant bombardment ·Of the electromagnetic media and cruder forms of mass communications all aimed to create economic desires and markets among the middle class. After the recent riots, the looter's selectivity for brand name products was haHed by none other than Hubert H. Humphrey as a ,dimentionless victory and unprecedented accomplishment for the ad man. We live today in a nation whose highest virtue is to acquire, md where, since World War U, shopping has eBcroached upon md finally surpassed our most haHowed of national past tiJnes, iJasebaU. And even more astonishing, it is a game all can play, nindered but by a few bemused .spectators, and offering rewards :·anging from personal to sexual satisfaction. From early childhood 1ve learn to consume. We consume hamburgers, consume clothing, consume cars, consume mouthwash, and consume each o:her, by 3 Negro, Student, and ;Self- Respect confirmation. Can we, the students whose life's blood has unfor- tunately come to rest upon a set of numbers fed through an I.B.M. machine, permit such arbitrary control of our destines or th<' increased emphasis of thls factor? Are we in fact at the mercy of a facllltY fmced to yield .principles in the pursuit of promotion and salary advancement? We must call for the repeal of a most unreasonable proposal, We must demand de-emphasis of a strict grading system, and we must strive for the creation of an informal' intellectual atmosphere and a curriculum based on the needs 0f the individual. To do otherwise is to destroy the unlimited potential that we at a small', private, liberal arts college possess. To do otherwise is to grind Ollt sttlffed technocrats and negate the college community's abllity to graduate men of increased wisdom. To do otherwise is to yield to arbitrary standards rather than inslst upon developing the ability .to choose one's own. The time to speak out, the time £or action is now. 'I'o do otherwise is to be hooked and slowly reeled in Uke the spineless, lethargic fishes we are all becoming. l normal proscribed methods or abnormal proscribed methods all firmly planted beneath the rim of the horn of cornucopia. The clearly outlined in the books we consume. We stand, our feet , Negro remains at the back of the :bus. for economic reasons. In a similar manner to Prof. Sanford's description of the Berkeley professors, we find that many of the faculty here function mainly to turn out trained technicians and bureaucrats for the mHitary, Industrial, and financial complex. The recent decision to change the grading system certainly was a step backward initiated by our faculty. The emphasis upon grade is increased and the possibility for a rela,x:ed atmosphere in which ideas may be ·exchanged is diminished. The hope of creating a small society in which love of learning, and not fear and coercion, serves as a motivating factor is destroyed. Instead we add to the neuroses and we yield to pedants who wHl stuff our minds with trivia, 90'/o of which will slip beyond recall with a short time of commencement and under whose tutelage we prove little more than our ability to self discipline ourselves to a constant diet of unpalatable ·boredom, broken only by that occasional and rarely experienced \great course\ or the social gourmet's delight, the big party weekend. In the name of fairness, the faculty has com· pletely ignored the essential need to move to a less structured, less coercive curriculum. As students we cannot allaw our institution to remain under the financial thumb of the industrial giants, both near and far, whose enormous contributions must be acknowl- edged, but in. turn whose leaders also formulate our poHcies and future and whose £uture employees by some strange and devious means we are to become. Nor can we permit our faculty te ferce us to scrounge for points at the mercy of a professor exercising the subjective power of grading, euphamisticly called \academic freedom,\ which long ago buried the notion of the college as a place of withdrawal, of concentration, and of individual study. Moun~tebanks P,resent One-Act P:lays f 1!), IJ Learning Yet the middle class of our naticm is sterile and finds little lasting satisfaction in its role of consuming what the industrial complex produces so that it may continue to .produce. Its children rebel, become hippies, and smoke pot, seeking a more justifiable existence in distorted perception. And we wiLl leave Vietnam and divert our treasure into the domestic war. In time paunchy black 1 men and paunchy white men will harmoniously feed their faces! together in cafes throughout the nation, pausing only to reach £m• the ketchup, grunt with efflu vial satisfaction, and grumble about those crazy kids. As Neville Sanfcrd stated in his convocation talk, the first priority for a member of a submerged group is not train- ing for a job, is not preparation for the chains of an economic role, it is the teaching of a feefing for reading, for art, for music, for learning so that he might gain a greater notion of self respect, ln the hope of releasing him from the grip of grasping materialism. Here as Union, we ourselves, ilike the Negro, are being groomed et Tell it to I.B.M. But lest you scoff at this I fell compelled to relate a sad tale of the power of the prof. and the will of the I.B.M. machine. After the fall term a Junior English major received his grade report and finding them above average, was pleased. Subsequently a list cir· cuJated from the registrar indicated that the student's grades had been dropped one ·letter grade in two courses. Apparently a ma- chine error, he consulted his professors who assured him that the original report was correct. Returning to the registrar he was in- formed that he weuld have to consult the dean of his center. Seeing the dean, he was told that no change would be made and that perhaps the college would make a mistake in his favor some day. On returning to his professors, the student was this time informed that on reviewing his final exams they had decided that he had not merited the higher grade of which he had previously received your . bumblebee degree~ Enroll in one of three exciting classes. Charger R/T, Coronet R T, or Dart GTSport. Each has its own dis- tinctive sporty style, but all three 'have a lot in com- mon. Like automatic transmissions, wide-tread red line tires, special handling packajles, and a long list of other standard and optional features. To help you make the grade, the standar.d engines for the Scat Pack include a 340-cu.-in. V8 for the Dart GTS. And for Charger R,/T and Coronet R/T, a 440 Magnum V8. Or for a more accelerated course, you can order the optional426 Hemi. All three members of the Scat Pack offer distin- guishing marks at no extra cost. Bold bumblebee stripes wrapped around the rear. Or Rally.e stripes along the side. Or if you prefer to be a little more modest, no stripes at all. It's your choice. Ready for class? With the Scat Pack, you've got it. Why not sign up at your nearby Dodge Dealer's and get your Bumblebee Degree, today? Dodge 0 CHRYSLER MOTORS·CORPORATION To add some color to campus, get your Official Dodge Scat Pack Jacket in ,the official \Dodge Red\ Color-with the authentic embroi- dered \bumble- bee\ design on front and back. ,._Send for yours ~today. r------------------• I FILL OUT AND !nAIL TO: I I Hughes·Hatcher-Suffrin, 1133 Shelbv at State. I Detroit, Michigan48226. Attn.: Mr. Gus Anton. I I Enclosed ts a check or money order (made payable to I I Hughes-Hatcher·Suffrin) for$. _____ , to cover cost of I ----Jackets at $9.95 each. Avatlable stzes: S, M, I L, XL. XXL. (Add 4% sales tax for delivery tn Michigan.) I 1 Na~e __ . _ Size 1 I I I ~ddress _ 1 I Ctty State Zip I I - ·-· -- - I L----~-------------~ Union College Mountebanks and the Ji>ept. of the Arts will present two one-act plays at 1:1:30 P.NL Thursday, Friday and Saturday in Nott Memorial Theatre. The plays are Ten Years A.ft- er the Puty by Eric Lemer with James Gallagher and Stev· en Rad1auer, directed by Harry Miller, and Deathwatch by Jean Genet with David Van Den- burgh, M:ark Palmer, John Roach, and. Colin McGowan, di- rected b:y Vlilliam Meriwether. Tm Y ~us After the Party is playwright Lerner's fourth play. It has .been performed only once before-at the Experimental Theatre at Harvard where Mr. Lerner ls an: undergraduate. The play explores the 1947 re- union of two brothers: the elder . is a broken but loyal Nazl, the younger baddefected before the war and returns home a victori- ous British Avmy officer_ The choice tllat each made bears di· rectly on his idea of a ma1fs re- sponsibility to his .father. The younger brother endan- gered hls parents by his <lefec- tion, but felt morally compelled · to lea:ve 'Germany to establish · his own integrity. The other re- mained home and had to sutTer to protect his parents from Nazi investigations. Ambition and jealousy over the disposal of the family business also motivated the brothers' decisions. Strange Worship Jean Genet was convi(ted ten times for theft in France before the age of thirty-eight. While in prison he wrote four novels and two plays: Deathwatch is one of those plays. It deals with the perversity and power of a life totally committed to negation, to criminality. The condemned murderer feels that he has been forced by misfortune into the world of crime, and yet he is fiercely proud of his high position in it. He accepts the utter isolation which follows when a man em- braces perversity. The other two convicts in his cell under- stand that they can expect only evil from him, yet they worship his strange greatness and com- pete .for his attentions. Tickets for this week's per- formances will be available at the door. No reserved seats. General admission: $1.50. The box office will open at 7:00 P.M. ART COLLAGE • • • Continaed from Page 1 The \collEges participating in this year's events are Skidmcre, Silvermont College of Art. Ben. nington, Albany State, Co11t1and State, and 1Jnion. Students and factdty wlll represent the Val'· ious institations with art Exhib- its and ledures, In addition, Union's :Mountebanks will pre- sent two one-act plays, Jean Genet's \Death Watch\ and \Ten Years After the Party,\ a new play by Eric Lerner, a . -Harvard undergraduate student. The plays. Vlill be performed in Nott Menu>Iial Friday and Sat- urday at a;30 p.m. Friday evening will alsc wit- ness the 'I'ri-Cities premier of two highly' controversial Viet- nam films, \Tell Me Lies\ and \Inside :Nortb Vietnam.\ They will be presented at 7 p.m. in the Social Sciences auditorium Friday ancl Saturday. The ari V!ork by contributing schools will be on exhibit fron1 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. in Psi Upsilon, Alpha Delta Phi and Sigma Phi fraternities. Art and photog- raphy e::ll;hibiis by Union st~~ dc:m.ts are on display in Old \Chapel. From the music side, the New Lost City Ramblers, a nation- ally proninent bluegrass folk group, will perform on campus from 10 p.m. to 1 a.m. Satt1rday evening. The Ramblers, who have performed at the N ewp01t Folk Festival. have released sev- eral LP albt1ms and are probably the most eninent folk artists to appear on the campus this year. Uni() n 's coffeehouse, '1he North End, will sponsor an af- ternoon of diverse folk music, . ranging fl-om Steve Fox's bag- piping tc folk guitar and banjo performances. Weather pe:nn:it- ting the concert will be held outdoors born 1:30 to 3 p,m At 8 p.m. Saturday evening the Northeast New York Philhar- monia and the Wellesley Col- lege and Union glee clubs wUI be pedorm.ing in Memorial Chapel, 'Both glee clubs have travelled the northeast area ex- tensively, giving concerts fr<lm Boston to Pbiladelphia. ous fraternity houses. A Sunday morning brunch at West College and informal afternoon confer- ences at fraternities with fac- ulty and artists will bring the weekend's activities to a close. . DOING WELL Dean Martin Lichterman was in satisfactory condition today at Ellis Hospital recuperating from a bleeding ulcer. Admitted last Wednesday, he is expected to be released next week and should be back in his position a!; Dean of the Center for Social Sciences and Humanities in about three weeks. According to Joseph Finkel- stein, chairman of the history department, Professors Olton, Jonas, and Potts are substitut- ing in Lichterman's Civil War history course on Monday, Wed- nesday, and Friday of this week, respectively. Further substitu. tion arrangements will be made this week. Phi Sig Seeks $ The Phi Sigm<J Delta Fraternity is spon· soring a fund raising drhe in support of lhe fight against muscular dystrophy. Dur. ing this week, the brothers will collect do. notions from ecch living unit. Collection boxes will also be placed in the bookstore, th& Rathskeller, and in the lunch lines at West College and Hale House, The drive wi II culminate Friday, with a car wash ot Skidmore's new campus from I to 5 P.M. Tlte car wash will be held In coni unction with the Skidmore Campus Chest fund. Phi Sig promises music and girls galore. Anyone wishing to offer their support ni collecting funds or helping the girl< wash cars, contact either Glen Rapoport or Floy.d Weintraub cl Phi Sigma Delta, 372-9772 It Pays to Advertise In Concordiensis A reception for the student artists and faculty will be given •---------------------------------------------------.J· from 10 p.m. to 1 a.m. at vari·

Report From Indiana Page 2 Concordy Sports Arts Weekend Page 1 Sticktnen Rotnp Over Alfred; Three To,ugh Contests Ahead By LEN SIMON The preliminaries are over for the Union College lacrosse team. Saturday's 14-3 victory over Alfred ended the easy por- tion of the Garnet schedule. They now stand 7-1, and at teast three of the remaining four con- tests look to be extremely chal- lenging. Today, the squad op- ens this tough home stretch, hosting Cortland State, present- ly 6-3, who most recently de- feated RPI, 8-5. Saturday's contest was high- lighted by the play of senior at- tackmen Lee Schneider and Sam Dill. Dil'l tallied five goals and three assists, while Schneid- er got his eight points in just the opposite way. Other scorers, with one goal each, were John Rockwell, lVIike Chater, Steve Ciesinski, Bruce Westby, Rich Swan, and Ron Wall. Keith Gregory had two goals and one assist for Alfred. Took Command The Garnet took command from the start by pi!ing up a 5-0 lead after the first quarter. as the Saxons lacked the per- sonnel to cope with the high- powered Union attack. Only Netters Stumble; Bard Belts Frosh The winless Garnet varsity netmen dropped a close 5-4 de- cision to Stevens Tech at Ho- boken Saturday. Losing four of the six singles matches. the Dutchmen were in trouble early and the loss of the third dou- bles match gave the contest to the Stutemen. Ron Wendeloski and Jeff South won their singles matches over Stevens. Both the first doubles of Brad Wheatley and Pete Seigel and the second dou- bles of South and Len Duck- worth triumphed. The frosh traveled to Bard College yesterday, but came away on the short end of an 8-1 contest with the Bard varsity. The only Garnet victory came in the fifth singles. Dave Schwank won the match 0-6, 6-1. and 8-6. The junior netmen are now 2-2 for the season. This week will be the tough- est of the schedule for the var- sity tennis squad. The team tra ve!s to traditionally strong Middlebury today and hosts NCAA regional champion Ham- ilton tomorrow. Friday and Sat- urday, the Garnet will compete in the ICAC championships at RPI. The frosh also have th 2ir work cut out for them this week. as they host Hudson Valley on Thursda;~.-. Rugby Loses The rugby club lost its second ~traight match Saturday, falling to Albany Law 9-0. Last fall, the Garnet defeated Law 9-3. Albany is now 2-1 on the spring season. The next match for the Union club is May 18 against An-herst. their goaiie, Bill Assenheimer, showed the ability to compete favorably, but the defense around him collapsed often enough to offset his 34 saves. Schneider was the sparkplug of the first period, scoring twice and assisting on two other scores. The second stanza saw the Garnet attack slow down consid- erably, tallying only twice. As- senheimer repelled many hard shots, but Schneider and Cie- sinski beat him once each, both with assists fr0m Dill. The half- time score was 7-1. Dill got both the third quarter goals on feeds from Schneider, an.d Coach Allison cleared the bench in the final quarter. With everyone seeing considerable ac- tion, the hosts managed to put together two goals within six seconds. After Dill had tallied unassisted, Swan won the face- off, raced upfield, and fired a low shot into the nets. Allison, who has been jug- gling his lineup all season as a resu:t of injuries to Steve R;t. terbush, Mike Walsh, Pete Brit- tin, Steve Bauer, Wall , and Westby, experimented with WaH at midfield Saturday, Ron, who began the season as a defense- man, played middie for last year's' freshman stickmen. CI u b Sports: 'lt''':''~'0~':''''iW'''''''''''1r1'lwu,,w,m;~'·'~~r;m~mfitl'(f.i.%'''f'':':}·'''''W'''\' -.·,·. Stj C. Votes on Clubs Sailors Take Fifth The Student Coun.cil last night passed the Clu~ SpoM: Board Constitution. Beginning next year, the club sports Will be fmanced by a club sport fund, which will be funded jointly by the Admi_n- istration and the Tax Committee. The Club Sport Board, wh1eh w1ll divide up the funds among the participath;tg sports, wi1! be made up of the President of the Delphics, who w1H be the chmrm_an, the College Comptroller, a member of the Student Tax Commtttee 1 !1 physical education faculty member, and two club sport partiCI- pants chosen by the heads of the respective club sports. The Union Sailing club finished fifth in an eleven-school field at the Tufts Intersectional Sailing Regatta, held in Boston last Saturday and Sunday. The Garnet represented the Middle Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing Association at the regatta, won by New Yorl{ Maritime with 124 points. Tufts, with 120, MIT ( 101 ), Northeastern (98 points) finished ahead of the Dutchmen, who accumulated 93 points. After the first day of the two-day event, Union was tied for third, but glassy water on Sunday helped lead to the fifth-place finish. Trailing the Garnet were Providence, Bowdoin, McGill, and Williams. In all, the Union sailers competed in fourteen races in the regatta. Bill Pattison, Bob Gill, Charlie King, and Jim Clements were the Garnet seamen. The Sailing club has announced that eight boats are now avail- able for use any afternoon at the Mohawk River boathouse. Anyone interested in using these boats for sailing any day should contact Bill Pattison at 372-0172. In addition, the club has announced plans to compete at Webb Institute on Long Island on Spring Weekend. Anvone interested in this event should also contact Pattison at the- above number. The Union College Bowling Club completed its tournament plav last Saturday, as it failed to place anyone into the semi-finals of the National Intercollegiate Match Games at the Bowl-Mor Rec- reaction in New York City. Tom Benedict led the Garnet scoring in New York with a 1421 total for eight games, 94 pins off the qualifying score of 1515 re- quired for 15th place and the semis. Benedict was in definite con- tention after four games with a 775 total, including the fourth highest game in the tournament, a 243. However, Tom slumped in the second block to 646, and thereby missed the cut. Paul Gerber was second highest among the Dutchmen, with a 1361 total, fol- lowed by Gary Prevost with 1350, Al Case at 13,11, and Bob Eri- anne at 1305. John Hammerstron also competed, but had to with- draw because of an injured thumb. Included in Case's block was a 240, the fifth highest game in the tourney, which drew 250 of the Northeast's top collegiate bowlers. UNION CALENDAR Tuesday, May 7: UIC Meeting, Hale House Student Lounge 7:00 P.M. Wednesday, May 8: Recital ~ Cora Randles, SS 16, 8:30 P.M. The Seventh Samurai~ 7 and 9 P.M. 75c. Thursday, May 9: Senior meet- ing, Chern lecture room 11:30 A.M. Convocation, Memorial Chapel 8:00P.M. Rabbi Samuel Sandmel \Juda- ism and Christianity· Over- lap and Difference\ ' REALE'S Gershon's For the finest in cameras and stereo fidelity featuring Nikon, Hassel blad, leica, AR Speakers, Sony Recorders 1957 Foster Ave. FR 2-4446 Sandwiches Cold Cuts Salads Open Tues. Sun. 8 A.M. to 9 P.M. Ph: EX 3-0617 1600 Union St. Thurn, McCabe, And Sessoms Set. Tracl Records Ry HENRY FEIN Al Sesson:.s, Carl Thurr,, and Art McCabe turned in record- smashing performances for the Garnet .track team, but could not prevent the squad's 92-42 los:s to .Middlebury. The team is now 1-4 for the season. All three Dutchmen establish- ed new all-time Union track marks at Middlebury. Sessoms, along with a triumph in the 220, ran the 44.@ in 49:0, 0:8 seconds faster than the old Garnet stand- ard. Thurn continued his fine season by smashing the 880 mark, as he han a 1:55.8. Along with a second in .the high jump and a third place in the long jump, Art McCabe leaped 44' 5~4\ to set a new Garnet triple jump mark. Outside of these perform- ances, however, the meet was a bleak one for Coach Ron Cole- man and his runners. Dave Gray could do no better than third in the HlO against the Panthers, and no other Dutchmen outside of Sessoms and Thum placed in a track event. Middlebury swept the mile, two-mile, high hurd- les, intermediate hurdles, and the pole vault. Field Events Better The other field events were somewhat better for the Garnet. Ed Blechner won the discus with a toss of 137' 1\ with Tom Oberst third. Oberst took the javelin with a heave of 177' 6\. George Gardner placed third in the shot at 45' 10%, \. The frosh traveled to the Cob- leskill Invitationals Saturday to face probably their toughest competition this season. High jumper Bob Berger was the only Dutchman to place, as he took third with a leap of 5' 11\. Hamilton Tomorrow The varsity closes its dual meet season here tomorrow, as it takes on improving Hamilton. The meet will get under way at 2:30 on the Alexander Field cinders. The frosh return to Cobleskill tomorrow to compete in a dual meet. Both squads will travel to RPI Saturday for the ICAC championships. The Garnet may do better in the large meet than they have against the individual ICAC op· ponents. In a meet of this kind, a few top performances can oft- en overcome a general team depth problem, since only the key performers make the finals anyway. If Sessoms, Thurn, Mc- Cabe, and Turner can win their events, and the Garnet relay teams continue to run as well as they have, a Union victory, seemingly impossible on the basis of dual meets, is within reach. SCHEDULE Today lacrosse: Cortland at Union 3:00 P.M. Tennis: Union at Middlebury Tomorrow Track: Hamilton ot Union 2:30 P.M. lenni<: Hamilton at Union 2:30 P.M. lacrosse; Union (F) at Middlebury Thursday 1enn's: HVCC at Union (F) 3:00 P.M. FERRO PHARMACY 575 N,ott Street Schenectady, N. Y. FR 7-0510 FOUNTAIN SERVICE One block frorn Brownell Gate ~.EWEST LU~CH UNION BOOK COMPANY 71.5 Albany Street 237-241 STATE STREET Specializing: - HOT DOGS WITH FAMOUS SAUCE - DINNERS AND SANDWICHES Books ••• Paperback Classics - TAKE-OUT ORDERS - Union Students Favorite Spot --- Party Favors --- .. --- • • • Art Supplies (Serving Schenectady Since 1921 ) Open 7 Days Per Week 6 A.M.-3:00A.M. --- .. :--- Office Supplies Editor's Corner: !lM@;1·*:~:~:w~%~(!:~~m~rwtmtsJrrtmt'llimti~ Player of the Week The Conco:rdy sports staff chooses a triple Player of the Week recognize the special efforts of three members; of the undefeated Garnet baseball team: :Ken Merchant, Joe Douglas, aad Mike McGee. Ken Merchant A year ago, Ken Merchant was hit in the face by a pitched ball in the Rochester game. Coach Art Lawrence doubted that Merchant wou:ld ever play ~asebaH again, but. the bat~ling sel).ior returned this season, and this weekend went ftve-for-mght agamst Clarkson and Rochester to raise his season's batting average to .538. Joe Douglas Joe Douglas is the Garnet's third .pitcher, but yesterday's fine seven-inning velief job was instrumental in gaining the Dutch- men's most important win of the year. The junior right\hander allowed just five hits and one run in seven inn.ings, while striking out seven. lVIike McGee Mike McGee is leading the team with a .454 hatting average after a strong weekend which featuved a home nm to the base of the right field scoreb()ard on Saturday and a long triple to right- center to lead off the bottom of the eighth yesterday. He later scored the deciding run on a sacrifice fly. Coach Lawrence has called McGee, who is a sophmore from the Alban~ Co'llege of Pharmacy, a godsend. Nine Seems on Route To Repeat 1965 Feat With an 8-0 record and five games remaining after yester- day's come from behind win over Williams, the Garnet nine is definitely in the running for a bid to the NCAA Atlantic Coast Championships, which the Garnet won in 1965, This year the tcurnament is being held in Norfolk, Virginia sometime be- tween May 28 and June 1. The winner of the Atlantic Coast region travels to Springfield, Missouri a week later for the national small college champ- ionships. The National champ- ionships were established a year after Union won the Atlantic Coast regional in 1965_ Union Will Go :Mr. Ketz has informed the NCAA baseball selection com- mittee which is headed by Col- by's athletic director, that Un- ion would travel to Norfolk if selected. The procedure for se- lection can vary from year to year, but in the past one team was usually selected from each of the three Divisions of the At- lantic Coast region (New Eng- land, Middle Atlantic, and South- ern) and one other team from any of the divisions. Selected in 1965 The Garnet were selected in 1S65 after compiling an 13-2 regular season mark that in- cluded losses to Williams and Hobart and then won the title with victories over Colby and Old Dominion at Yankee Sta- dium. Coach Gary Brown pitch- ed the Garnet to victory in the finals against Old _Dominion. Union's victory in 1965 definite- ly should help the Garnet's chances for selection this year. It would seem that an unde- feated or one loss season would send the Dutchmen to Virginia. Statistics BASEBALL-S Gatnes Name BA RPI Mike McGee -·---------- .454 14 Ken Merchant -------- -· _ .451 11 Ken Pearce ------------- ,387 7 Brien Gidlow ----------- .333 3 Jim Wilson -----------·- .333 6 Dave Hourigan ---------- .312 5 Mike Solomon ----------- .278 8 Tom Miller -----------·- .192 5 Bob MacKenzie ------- -·- .444 2 Bob Hallenbeck --------- _ .356 2 Joe Douglas ------------ .200 2 Bill Neidel -------------- .091 1 Total Union ------------- .332 66 Total Opposition --------- .20o 22 PITCHING W.L ERA Joe Dougtes ---------- 1-0 0.71 Bill Neidel ------·--·- 3-D 1.85 Bob Hallenbeck ------- 4-0 3.18 LACROSSE-8 Games Name Goals Assists l:e Schneider ----·---- 16 25 Sam Dill------------- 21 4 Steve Ritterbush ------- 11 10 Bruce Westby ___ ------ 11 0 Ken Milne ------------ 6 4 Bob Seefrled ---------- 5 0 Tad Knighl ----------- 3 2 Doug Duval---------- 1 3 Jo!m Rockwell --------- 3 0 Jim O'Neil ----------- 2 1 Mike Chafer ---------- 2 0 Pete Brittin ---·------- I I Frank Donnini --------- 1 0 Steve Ciesinski -------- 0 Ron Wall ------------ 0 Rich Swan ------------ 0 Steve Bauer ----------- 1 N.ike Walsh ---------- 1 MauriceiB. Q'ruufoarf' .. ons tAr:: .. , .' .... E 'For three Generations/ Those Who Know Have been recommending HERSHEL MAURICE B· WALTER 41 3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'$' 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian • American Food I 125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady Dl 6-9744 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar I TE ./OL. 97 - PI SJ Seventee were elect Alpha Cha the Chapte Sigma X orary soci' and two f~ ion Colleg• The new Beta Kapp; Mrs. Gear · Kutz, Ster: Mullman, ~ Michael S. Walter J. Robert M• Paul A. Gr jamin Voli Sigma 1< J. ] In a Cm Manker '6: Council prr \70 a candi lined thei: student bo tion next ~ Both cal lief that t rough first fective sp body prov: lVIanker council's r · convocatioJ tion of act ance progr Both ca major then what is p1 pansion ar cit's activit forming oJ Council. Manker, . a member is also the cil suggest• Union has rolleges w 'student n Fresh1 Elect . ' A close ' highlighted Council re: William Biggi with 95, David Wright wi Class of ' behind Wr The camr. follows: ~ Eu..-ene J. ~ :>:e!son A. l Robert F. I j Richard M. , .John V. Lit I,yndon B. ) Charles H. Ronald W. lllarl< 0. H: Harold E. : George Wa: Fred Haist< Asked wl they thou:::! regards to 1 supported r· mediate sto ancl 6 9 call< In reply of military in regard tc . s:on, 431 r were for ln1 supported n To confrc est priority ore-d was: l training. n tro1 anrl 30

the Week ke McGee. a pitched that senior ht against to fine Dutch- striking g average base of to tight- He later has of te in the definite- Garnet's this year. an unde- would Virginia. BA RPI 14 II 7 3 6 312 5 8 192 5 2 356 2 200 2 091 1 332 66 201> 22 ERA 0.71 1.85 3.18 Assists 25 d 10 0 4 0 2 3 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 1 s tail Bar • Tell Me Lies Page2 Independents Page3 Founded at Union College 1877 ./OL. 97 - No. 28 SCHENECTADY., NEW YORK, FRIDAY, MAY 10, 1968 PRICE 15 CENTS P B K Taps Seventeen; S Xi Cites Thirty- T\\Vo Seventeen Union College seniors were elected to membership in the Alpha Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, at the Chapter's meeting 0n April 30th. Sigma Xi., the national science hon- orary society, elected thirty seniors and two faculty members to the Un- ion College chapter. The newly elected members of Phi Beta Kappa are: Mrs. Janet Fentiman, Mrs. Georgeann Sather, H. Douglas -Kutz, Stephan Fafelson, Michael S. Mullman, Jay Cohen, Paul D. Gerber, Michael S. Balkin, Stanley G. Strauss, Walter J. M. Pfeil, Eric H. Singer, Robert McCohen, Larry J. Pellish, Paul A. Grayson, Douglas Hatch, Ben- jamin Volinski, Jr., and Kent T. Kraft. Sigma Xi's new members are Dr. Carl J. W. George and br. John M. Daniels, m€mbers of the Union fac- ulty and the following seniors: Thom- as B. Bennedum, Gordon T. Bird, An- tonio Casillo, Stephen E.. Cheuvront, David A. Conant, CliffGrd W. Cough- lin, Robert H. Douglas, Harold Leigh Frye, Bruce M. Gans, Paul D. Gerber, Frank W. Glena, Paul A. Goodman, Richard S. Gordon, Stanley P. Gulin, Douglas E. Hatch, Gordon Howe, How- ard E. Jackson, Robert M. Kisabeth, Jr., H. Douglas Kutz, James W. Male, Gary V. Pavek, Paul A Rabin, Joel Rubenzahl, Allen L. Sessoms, Eric H. Singer, Andrew H. P. Swift, Jr., Wil- liam F. Waite, Jr., Robert T. Whipple, Robert I. Winner. and Clifford C. Wuosmaa. Students Dema'nd Academic Say; Faculty To Reconsider Grading By ALLEN GARTNER \What do you want?\ \A say!\ \When do you want it,\ \Now!\ This was the chant of more than 200 :Union students, as they gathered outside the Faculty Council meeting Tuesday afternoon to protest the fac- ulty decision to institute a 12 point grading system without student con- sultation. Led by the Coalition For An Aca- demic Voice, a newly formed group whose members include most of Union's student leaders, the demon- strators protested for more than an hour on the North side of the Social ~ciences Building. Meanwhile, a meet- mg of faculty members, administra- tion, and student leaders discussing the grading situation took place in- side. Student Representatives Representing the student body at the meeting were student council members Danny Aronzon, Bob Bur- wick, and Hal R.oss; Campus Action Committee Members Al Ziegler and Bob Shamis; Ken Goldman, who or- ganized the petiti(m signing; and Tom !<\\lynn, who represented students who favor the new grading system. Ac- cording to Aronzon the faculty and administration were receptive to stu- dent comments and there were no arg11ments during the meeting. Professor Shinagel, the controver- sial proponent of the new grading system, remained silent throughout the meeting. that it would, print an \open letter\ in today's Concordiensis stating the committee's initial views on both the establishment of an All College Aca- demic Council and the new grading system and print in next Tuesday's Concordiensis various proposals of ex- actly what power the ACAC should have, that is, whether the ACAC should be a recommending body or if it should have a direct say in aca- demic matters; and the coalition also said it would ask Student Council to sanction it as an official representa- tives group of the student body. In an interview Thursday, Professor Joseph Finkelstein, chairman of the history department and a participant in Tuesday afternoon's faculty-student discussion, emphasized the positive side of the situation; namely, that stu- dents should be given a voice in aca- demic affairs at Union. MANKER, BURWICK OUTLINE IDEAS While demonstrators were loudly chanting outside, Aronzon, chairman of the Student Council committee, asked the faculty and administration representatives if any final decision could be reached during the meeting. \This is something I have advo- cated for 20 years,\ he said. By BILL OUZER In a Concordiensis interview Rusty l\olanker '69 a candidate for Student Council president and Robert Burwick '70 a candidate for Vice-president out- lined their respective proposals for student body and student council ac- tion next year. Both candidates expressed the be- lief that this year's council, after a rough first term emerged into an ef- fective spokesman for the student body providing real leadership. Manker pointed specifically to the council's role in the revision of the ·convocation program and the initia- tion of action on the present mainten· ance program and social rules. Both candidates stressed, as the major themes of their campaigns, that what is primarily needed is \an ex· pansion and extension\ of t:he coun cil's activities this year, especially the forming of an All College Academic Council. Manker, school social chairman and . a member of the tax committee who is also the Vice-president of the coun- cil suggested that within the :Past year Union has been catching up to other colleges with regard to the role of 'student representation on decision making committees concerning school life and policy. The creation of the Academic Com· mittee, Manker believes would place the Union student body on the top level of participation within the col- lege. Burwick, a former student council- man and surrently secretary, spoke about the problem of student concern here stating he was not sure where the \myth ended and reality began.\ He pointed to the committee for an academic voice of which he and Man- ker are both members as a prime ex- ample of effective student organiza- tion and indicated that the faculty's recognition of the committee showed that genuine student concern can be expressed and taken seriously. Burwick further pointed to the spontaneity of the committee as an- other indication that the student body is neither unaware nor uninterested. With regard to ideas for next year, Manger proposed the creation of a permanent board to supervise and guide the weekend program.. Such a board he said would provide a solid organizational framework enabling the more effective handling of the mechanics of the weekend and pre- Freshman, S.ophomore, and Junior Classes .Elect New Student Council Representatives A close election in the Class of '70 highlighted the elections for Student Council representatives last night. William Burns with 110 votes, Ian Biggi with 99, William Boemke with 95, David Seward, 92, and Geoffrey Wright with 89 votes were elected Class of '70 representatives. Close behind Wright were Edward Kessler Eugene Romp~ The campus-wide results of Choice of '68 follows: Eu..-ene J. McCarthy <Deml .. - .. 486 I :>:e!son A. Rockefeller (Rep) ............... ·-· 277 I Robert F. Kennedy (Deml .................... 218 j Richard M. Nixon !Rep) ...... .. ...... ... . 121 ., .John V. Lindsay (Rep)........................ 42 J,yndon B. Johnson (Deml .............. - 21 ) Charles H. Percy (Rep) ······--··-·-- -- 8 Ronald W. Reagan (Rep) ........... 5 lllar1< 0. Hatfield .(Rep) ............... .... 3 Harold E. Stassen <Rep) _ ......... - . 2 Geoorge 1Vallace (Amer.-Ind.)................. 2 Fred Halstead (Soc. Worker) ................ 1 Asked what course of miliatr~ aetion they thought the r.s. should pllrsue in regards to bombing of North Vietnam. 722 · supported redw·tion. 189 complete and Im- mediate stopping. 90 all out, 81 n1alntaln anti 69 callef! for an increase. In reply to the question. \Whal course of military action should the e.s. pursue in regard to iVetnam?\ 466 baelted suspen- . s:on, 43 7 ravot·ed compiete cessation, 145 were for Intensifying, 126 mainta!r1 and 21 supported nuclear action. To confront the urban crisis, the high- est priority in government speml ing fav- · or('d was: 521 for education. 517 for job training, 77 for housing, 53 for l'iot ~on­ tro1 nnrl 30 for lnrnmP suhsicly. and Thomas Godfrey with 88 and 87 votes respectively. Kessler, Wright and Steven Nussbaum with 68 votes were eliminated in the final elections. Moffit Tops In the Class of '69, Dennis Moffit topped the voting with 103, followed by Jim Stillman, 100, Richard Ros- ener, 8J, Gilbert Tiberio, 86, and Jef- frew Kurzizus, 80 votes. Donald Ben- trovato with 56 votes, Dave Pittinos with 59 and Ernest Dellheim with 71 were eliminated in the finals. The frosh class elected Don Kessler, 143, Edgar Rundell, 133, William Wicker, 132, Ivan Tether, 117 and Paul Ramsey, 111. Chuck Lakin, 100, George Hobbs, 98, and Guy Caruso, 83, were defeated. Frosh To Meet The freshman class will hold its first meeting, featuring Professor Michael Shinagel speaking on the new grading system and Professor Robert Sharlet discussing student power, on Monday, May 13, in SS016 at S P.M. Other speakers include Dean Olton on the future of Union, Paul Vivian on Independents, Dr. Willard Roth leading a seminar for pre-meds, and Grady Aronstamm on .Student Coun· cil. Class officers, under the direction of Bill Dawson, president, have called this class meeting for the purpose of \organizing unifying, and informing the class of the many controversial aspects of Union College life.\ venting problems of insufficient prep- aratwn. .This board would set up the enter- tainment program for the entire year selling block tickets for the year·~ concer~s. at registration and provide a stability and coherency lacking in the present set-up. The response was negative but a pJ.lomise was made by faculty and ad- miaistration to reconsider the grad- ing system and to \actively consider\ student proposals for the establish- ment of an All College Academic Coll.ncil at the faculty council meeting nex:t week. The Council would be composed of students, faculty, and administration and would cope with further academic problems and pro- posals. Late Tuesday evening and on Thurs- day morning The Coalition For An Academic Voice met and concluded When asked what chance there was for the faculty tabling the new grad- ing system at next week's faculty meeting until students were formally given an opportunity to voice their opinions or until an ACAC could be established, Finkelstein said, \Frank- ly, I just don't know.\ He did admit that faculty and administration had been unaware that \students felt so keenly\ about the proposed change. He further commented that an ACAC should be set up and that the ACAC should have a direct say in many aca- demic matters. Finkelstein is a proponent of one pass-fail course per year as well as the 12 point grading system. Within the structure of the council itself, Burwick felt that the represen- tation ought to have a different em- phasis. Burwick suggested that the lack of a centralized constituency for council representatives tended to im- personalize the liaison between the student body in general and the ac- tions of the council. As a solution a restru~turin~ of the meeting proce- dure mcludmg more of a role for each coucilman in discussion and the consideration of a wider variety of pr(lposals thereby democratizing the council's activities. Fund Drive To Open For Burwick further expressed the be- lief that backing Linebacker propos- als for new courses and circu:um re- vision was a goal the council should work for and said that he hoped the course evaluation poll could become a permanent and substantial part of the council's activities. Burwick and Manker, commenting on the campaign, said that their joint ~nnouncement was one of cooperation rather than strict connection based on experience in working with student government and the fact that they had similar ideas and aspirations for the council. Both candidates emphasized the im- portance of involving students in the process of decision and the presenta· tion of ideas to the council and the further need for the council to feel a genuine obligation to represent and take a vital role in th edecisions and actions of the school both here on campus and in the community. Undergraduate By LLOYD WOLKENFELD T:he Union college Capital Fund Drive will turn to undergraduates next week from Monday through Fri- day in a campaign in which volun- teei\s will eacll canvass ten members of the student body in the dormi- toriEs and fraternities. The Union In- depEndents Council and the Inter- Fraternity Council, co-sponsors of the driv-e, hope the students will surpass the faculty participation, which was over 80% (and totaled $85,000) there- by demonstrating student interest in and enthusiasm for the college to the community at large, which will be the next prey of the Drive. L~st night in Old Chapel there was an ()rganizational meeting for volun- teei\s presided over by Lance Spall- New Courses Approved Expanded course offerings in four depar-tments have been approved by the Faculty Council. The changes represent a sttbstantial revision in the Classics and English departments. The English program has been re-aligned to include twelve courses in the major instead of the previous thirteen and includes a senior year thesis. The mechanics of the change consist of the dropping of seven courses and the addition of five new ones. Among those being; discontinued is English 10, Form and Analysis, with the introductory program now consisting of a new three term survey of English literature. Professors Harvey 1 Freund, Murphy, and Nelson will offer these courses. Other courses leaving the program are American Thought, American Poetry, Comparative Literature: Middle Ag:es to the Reformation and The' Enlightenment to the Romantic Period, as well as The English and Continental Novel, and Poetics. Being offered for the first time next y~ar will be Professor Niemeyer's English, a survey of important drama from the middle ages to the Fifteenth Century, English 59, the English Novel in the Eighteentll Century taught by Professor Shiangel and Modern Poetry with Professor Harvey, designated English 65. Additional teaching personnel in the classics department has permitted an expansion and better focusing of the program in that discipline with the changes being highlighted by the inclusion of new courses dealing with the Art and Literature of Greece and Ancient Rome. To be taught in alternate years are Classics 14 and 15, the Literature of Greece and Latin Literature. Greek Art and Civilization, Classics 16, will be offered in 1968-69 and every other year thereafter as will Classics 31, dealing with the worlcs of Herodotus and Thucydides. The revised program includes courses dealing with works in the ancient languages in translation as well broadening the preparation in the ancient languages themselves. Greek 10 will be expanded to two courses, Greek 10 and 11. Further, Classics 40, Greek Prose Composition, will be available in alternate years from 1969-70 and permits more advanced work in that language. Seven new additions in the math department, including courses in Multi- variable Calculus and Differential Equations, represent the expansion of that program's curriculum in advanced topics. Additional new course offerings. in Histoi\Y Modern Languages and Mechan- ical Engineering rEflect a school wide trend toward providing increased variety and more advanced work. · Contributions holz of the U.I.C., Dick Amesbury of the lF.C., and 0. A. Pendleton, Capi- tal Campaign Council, in which stu- dent assignments were made and the new publicity film of Union College life made its campus premier. The movie will be shown again Monday and Thursday at 8:00 p.m. in Memor- ial Chapel. Along with contributions, each stu- dent solicited will be asked what his priorities are in the building program. The goal of the 10 year drive is $30 million for the completion of the new science center and the realization of the proposed student union, among other things. In addition, payments must be made for Fox and Davidson Houses and the Social Science and Humanities buildings. Patterson Retires Richard E. Patterson, Jr. announced today that he is resigning as Editor- in-Chief of Concordiensis at the end of this term because he plans to study next year at the London School of Economics and Political Science in London. To fill the soon-to-be-vacated edi- torship, an election by the staff for a full September to June term will be held Thursday night, May 23 at 8 P.M. in the Concordiensis editorial office in Brooner House. Any student is eligible to apply for the position. Interested students must fill out an application form obtainable at the Student Activities Office in Old Gym HalL They must be returned there no later than Tuesday, May 21. The election of the new editor will be announced in the final issue of the term, which will be published Friday May 24. ' Patterson expressed regret at hav- ing to resign his post one term early but said he looked forward to a re: warding year of study in London \This is a tremendous educational op~ portunity of which I hope to take ad- vantage,\ Patterson said. Besides his work on Concordiensis Patterson is a Nott Scholar, Delphic: a member of the Glee Club and the Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship.

2 PuUtJ;:.ht·U Tut•sJa):::; uud l\rit..lays dur· lng th\ sdwul year t.Jy the Student Bolly of t;nion CollegE', Schenectady, !\:. Y. !'\atwnal Advertising H.evresen- tatJve: .:\ational I...;Uuc.:atlUnal Atlver- tising SPI\\'il'e- Int~.. 360 Lf\Xington Av<>. N Yr. I·:<lttorial Office, Bron· ner House. Cnton College. Publication Office, Sc•heneotady .Printing Com· pany, 602 BJ\Oadway Entered In the ~l'heneC'tady Post Offh:e as Second Class Mali. Subscription 16c a copy; $j a yeaJ' de!ive,·od anywhel'!' In th.> L'nited Stato. ISEXIOR BOARD HIL\ll.\l(U E. l'ATTEHSO:-;, JH, '70 ........ 346-8Gl4...... ... . ........ l,ullur-ln-Ch!ef D. PETER DROTHAN '60 .................... - ... 372-0730 ........................ Duslness Manage! :>:ElL I:'. KHA~IEH '70 .............. 346-8614 .......................... ~1anaglng Editor Jl•:FI•' BROW:-il~ '69. . 345-9973 News E<litot GAHY PHEVOi:lT '69 .................................. 393-7841. .............................. Sports Editor STEVE FOX '70 .......................................... 346-3019 .......................... Features Editor RICHARD BALAGt.:'R '69 ............................................................. Consulting Editor JOt-:l·:PH .\, ;'.1.\:\\:o-; JH. 'GS .. .. . ......... ... .. ........ . .. ....... E:ditor Emeritus Dick Danlel '70 ....... . Lt~n ~mion '70 Ht•nry l•,t>in '71 Paul J·•at·nham ';n Paul .\ndrP\.Vs· 'i'l B11l UUZt<r 'ol Mike Swirsl<y '70 . Stt.)pln•n Littman '70 PI'Pd 8t·Prn '\i'O JU:NIOit BOA.UD .................................................... ., ....... Photography Editor AHHol'ia·tf\ Sports Editor .A·$Sil-lt ant Spurt~ I·-;ditur .\~sistant !S'Pw::; T·~ditor .A·~~Istant F\eatures E:dit.or Assi~tant ~ranaglng I.;uuor ............. Nationaf Advertising Al.unagPr ........•... Subscl'i ption 1\.Ianager Carl Golclsan!l '70 ............................... . Produ<·tion :\lnnag\er ................................... Clrculallon l\lanager H.Ichartl Ll'\\'is ·-;o . Luwn•Ht t• Hothlllum 'ill Paul Oray:.;un 'tl\'i . Paul UPrht•t• •,;:~ Len Kagan '6U .... ... Lo~..·al Advertising .llanager Dist rlt.Jutiun :\lanagl'r .. .. .. .. . Paoer Boy . .Assistant Paper Boy ........................................................... Fratemi!les Editor S'fAFF ~IEIUBEIR:S :-ll'(lltT~ l\\Jo:.\Tna:s una;o.;~:ss .... \1 Gart.m•r, Bill C'olm•t·l, John Anes. ~1ilte Crowley I ~lo~·tl \·nlk~nt'Plcl. l'arl Die-tz, ~tevt> Cole .1'1:-, Bliizman. ['t<t· Ha,t·h.cnvay . .John llt>nPfriu. ~lilH\' H.egPI .... .'\I (~uh1·n, l\'t>tPr '\YPingolU < 'lmrlt>s IIDgan. Jpff Birn, Hoy Kar~Iin, Jprry Levine, Pat \Vhite, E<l T~ssler Reason For Hope The recent furor within the student body caused by the adoption of a new grading system is certainly a positive sign of life in that what otherwise often seems a moribund college. Those who have so long decried student apathy at Union may soon be forced into silence. Belatedly, to be sure, but vigorously Union men have awakened to the fact that they have both the right and the power to defend their interests in the councils of decision making on campus. Such an awakening as we are now experiencing may mean chaotic times ahead for Union, but Union must choose between the vigor and heightened consciousness of this chaos or a dull, sleepy, complacency which has too often in the past stunted her growth. We believe the awak- ening of student power on this campus is a sign of the maturity of students who care about their college and wish to accept some of the responsibility for shaping it. This can only mean a little brighter future for Union. The demonstration outside the Faculty Council meet- ing last Tuesday signals, we hope, a new era for Union; an era of responsible decision making within the college by all members of the campus community. That the demonstration was orderly is important. We hope that in aquiring the voice they desire, Union students will meet with an en- lightened response from the faculty and administration and not be forced to resort to less orderly means of demon- strating concern. We are pleased with the formation of the student coalition for an academic voice and urge the faculty to con- sider their request to postpone final enactment of the new grading system until a thorough discussion and dialogue on the matter of grading at Union can be held. We are confident that the faculty will be favorably disposed to the early establishment of the proposed All- College Academic Council (ACAC) and will move to estab- lish such a body as soon as workable plans can be drawn. It is not merely a student voice in academic affairs which is being sought here. Rather, we seek a college which recognizes and utilizes the ideals and ideas of youth; a college which looks confidently to the future, a future made more secure by the best which its students can con- tribute in all areas of college life. Support The Dri'Ve We urge students to support the joint IFC-UIC stu-. dent capital fund drive to be held on campus beginning. today. Much is said about student interest in the college and this drive preseBts students with a clear opportunity to express their interest and concern over the future of Union. Contributions need only be token, but it is important that students show that they have faitb, in Union's future and are willing to join others in sacrificing to secure it. LETTERS Sorry To the Editor: Can it be true that ne>ne of the awards given on Prize Day to deserving students i:n Science and Engineering are worthy of mention in Concordiensis? Cer- tainly the entire college com- munity can be justly proud of Kent Kraft, but what of Douglas E. Hatch who shared the Catlin Prize with Messrs. Kraft and PheH, was awarded the Pull- man Prize, was named as the 1 outstanding student in Mechani- 1 cal ·Engineering and one of two I m o s t outstanding students in I mathematics? 1 It would seem to me that all 1 students who have received ! awards are worthy of mention i ~n the student newspaper. If this 1s not feasible due to space lim- itatiGns or ·for ·reasons of cost surely it would be .possible to recognize a representative sam- pling on a college-wide basis. James D. Palmer Dean of Science and Engineering Stalemate To the Editor: The complete sham witnessed a~ the U.~.C. meeting Tuesday mght causmg at least three res- ignations from that body was a disgrace. For an hour and a half (at the time this writer left in disgust) members ex- changed bitter retorts, and con- ducted themselves in a deplor- able manner. Although most dorm residents were led to believe that section representatives' functions were · to maintain and amend social rules and improve living condi- tions in the dormitories, a spec- tator Tuesday- would have seen the organization passing resolu- tions concerning the Patterson- Concordy situation, the grading situation, and even an attempt to censure the All-College Coun- cil. A suggestion that such busi- ness is outside the U.I.C.'s bali- wick was greeted with scorn. But on matters unique to it, e.g. the six telephones for 170 stu- dents in West College lack of hot water in West, 'etc., the body's deliber-ations have yield- ed nothing. Yet order can be brought out of chaos. The spectacle Tuesday night vividly dramatizes that the excessive fragmentation a n d complete autonomy of the or- gans of student government at Vnion are dysfunctional to its operation. One envisions an All- College Council (called simply, \The Student Council\) with an Interfraternity Committee an Academic Committee, a Dorm and Physical Maintenance Com- mittee, an Independent Social Committee, and such other com- mittees as deemed necessary, each subordinate, each with rel- ative auton()my, yet with clearly defined roles, Members of these committees would constitute the Student Council, which would deliberate matters common to all. Such centralization and specific identification of juris- diction w<>uld make for greater efficiency, and increased pro- ductivity, The so-called student apathy at Union may be due in small part to the student gov- ernment stalemate. THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nuimeats from all over tile world. 406 STATE ST. A resolution which I intro· duced ·reeommending that the A.C.C. st11.dy and propose or- ganizational improvement and if necessary, renovation of student g0vernm.ent was kiiled by the raucous mob. Hopefully, respon- sible members of student gov- ernment (if there are any) will heed the caU. Mike Wilensky '71 A Say To the Editor: We helieve that the 12 point system slHmld not go into effect this Sep-tember. Therefore, we urgently request all faculty members :to reconsider the pres- ent Faculty Council resolution which established that system . We request that the next ses- sion of the General Faculty vote to return to the 5 point system until a rlial0gue is established to discuss this particular mat- ter. With regard to establishing a dialogue, we believe it must be a permanent and respected one. This Coalition is in the process of prepaFing several alternate meth0ds of establishing an All- C o ll e g e Academic Council, which will be presented in Con· cordiensis on Tuesday, May 14. We ask the General Faculty to give the ~idea of an ACAC a vote of confidence at its next session, a11d also request that the General Faculty appoint a com- mittee t() present its alternate methods for establishing an ACAC, als() to be presented in Tuesday~s paper. FinaHy ~ we request that repre- sentatives of the Faculty and the Student Body meet no later than Tuesday, May 21, in order to formalize plans for an ACAC. In this way, the actual discus- sion of the first problem, the proposed 12 point grading sys- tem, can be discussed before summer vaeation as well as next fall. The e£forts required of both Faculty and Students are indeed that the <:ommitment to a stu- dent voice on academic affairs is vital to the growth of Union College. Student. Coalition for an Aca· demic Voice. Skippers do it I ,·' ;;.-:. ··.-· <.El .. i ............ ·•. :'J!eatlter® :'~For'm~n ~ho want to be where the i:•>acuorv.rs, · Very intrepid. Very mas- :, culins. A..LL~PURPOSE LOTION. ::.:$2~so;,:$4;0():; $6.50. from the com- : plE!\b:!•:arrayof ENGLISH LEATHER · m~u'\'s<1o1-letrles; · .. -;.-;-;,;·;,..,,.;.,.-..... .. . A PROOUCf--QFMEt.\ COMPANY, INC, NORTHVAlE, N 1 07&41 D·EWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap RCJonJ Fine food ond legal Beverages I 18 - 1 20 JAY STREET Friday, May 1 0, 1968 Mountebanks Present Two ·Plays, \Deathwatch\ andln:Party\ Both Hits By PAUL ANDREWS 'J.'he Union College Mounte- banks gave the fi.rst of three performances of Ten Years Af· ter the Party and IIPathwat.Ph Wed., night in N ott Memorial. Both or cne one-act J:llciJ \'• paA c of the IFC-sponsored Arts vv eek- end, will be presented tonight and tomorrow night at 8:30 p.m. Ten Years After the Paii';, written by Harvard undergrad- uate Eric Lerner and d.irected by Harry Miller, concerns the reunion of two German brothers in 1947 after World War II. Klaus (James Gallagher) is a former Nazi soldier who stilt displays a Nazi flag in his dis- heveled 11v1ng roon1 ana wears his Nazi unif0rm complete with a luger for any intrudmg enemy solct.ers. Martin (Steve Rad· lauer) IS Klaus' younger br0ther who fled Germany JJefore the war to serve m the English army. '!he play opens with Mart1lt returmng honre Irom Eng1anu and ,the war. Alter the m1t1aJ tense scene the action sere.,,; aown to a dialOgue 'Dct;Wetn LHc two brothers (;Oncer n1n s d'lt.~· family and Klaus uu.1.~g ·LrL war and the events ~· c. .,a. •.r precedmg !Vlartln ::; ue~-'a .• u. ~ wr England, 'l\h<:! l••naoJ l!V•ll L vl the p1ay 1s that d1rfet en~es .u party 1eamngs rea11y had httw to ao With the reasons behma the two brothers' separatwn. James Gallagher ts very ef- fective as the broken, embit- tered elder 'brother who ca.nnot !ace the reality of the Nazi de- feat. nor of his own failure in life. His reminiscences are es- pecially well d0ne. Steve Rad- Jauer easily fits into the role of the younger, pompous brother who has returned home victori- ous to nnd desolation. The emo- tiOnal and psychological inter- pay or the two characters IJ.a!\.ES Lu ncr's Iourth dramatic uim t mce1 estmg VIewing, par- LLu.arJy trom the standpomt of tharatter ll•Gtivation, 'l'he set comp:emented by an authenti~ :CO-toot 1'1 azi flag from Psi Up- silon 1raternity, is dilapidated enough; and harry Miller's first directmg attempt is highly com- mendable. The second play, Jean Genet's Deathwatch, directed by Wil- liam Meriwether, is a powerful human drama also involving ]JsychologiCa'l and emoti0nal in- tdptay. 1he plot revolves aroumt the acti0ns and dialogue of three convicts, one of whom 1s iacmg exeeutwn for murder. lJave VanDenburgh plays Green .C.yes, the condemned murderer \-rlose blond hair, green eyes and broad shomders make him partlcula:ny attractive to Maur- Ice, a pretty thief and not-so- latent homosexual. John Roach as Georgy Lefranc, an ol:der crimma1 and . former gaHey s1ave, and Colin McGowan as the prison guard, round out the cast. The play, Genet's first eff0rt, captures the viewer's attention at its onset with a bitter fist- fight between Georgy and Maur- ice, two small-time crooks with visions of big-time crimes. From then on the action never lags and the audience's interest nev- er flags as the dialogue reveals a complex emotional interweav- ing of jealousy between Maur- i re and Georgy over the atten- tiOn of Green Eyes-whom they both admire for the evil and ~ervers.ity of his crime~and the veneratiOn they feel for him. At the same time they both feel ashamed of the comparative in- significance of their crimes alongside that of Green Eyes. Green Eyes himself feels that he was trapped into going through with the senseless \crime of the lilacs\ which he really did not want to commit. Van Denburgh gives a superb performance as the venerated but despairing murderer, John Roach is equally effective in his role as the volatile Georgy, and Mark Palmer gives an incredi- ble performance as the deviant Maurice, portraying with ex- quisite detail and polish Maur- ice's narcissistic preening, his const::1nt baiting of Geore-:v and his affectionate petting of Green Eyes. Eut all three characters give extraordinary performances, and the intensity of their portrayals corr.bined with the effectiveness of the play itself add up to a r>resentation which shou'd not be missed. The C.R.\'lsp Poplin. Suit ';['hat Can be Washed Ever wear cool poplin? It's a re- markable summer suiting-partic- ularly if it can keep its fresh facade throughout the day. Here's one that refuses to wilt or wrinkle. Reason: it's Deansgate own blend of 65% Dacron® polyester and 35% cotton poplin, Add to these v~rtu3s Deansgate's flawless natural shou~der construction and you have a suit you will want to wear every hot day in the year. In various colors. $£&. Deans gate •.:\ . . ~ . ~· :llaJijr' THURSDAY & FRIDAY ;TILL NINE Freem1 ant group; 1e the spe · >ower to t ,>.M. The s ' -ramma Del Robins' >hile Boyd ion betwe This p. , n both tt udice, was \ · 0ciology d .]department Prof. F I · prejudice l fi l , liscriminat 1le further :liscriminat Prof. C .t ·basic de: ( this attitud I' position i,n to emergm ment of lal .. , ment of o~l 1 I The d-1: of the Ne.§ I estabHshmE Negro, the Jir.·both thoug ')be made o more painf\ All int t the final p: J!f.'C Tt 1 ] Disc \ At Tuesc 1 Jim Male ,! I ~ I 7 IFC make the proble: in Union' fore the 1 any action ties. Male fee! tion practJ wiil not las1 also noted 1 a few memt hurt th ask~d that 4 tive discuss members oi ,pation of a be made at . Brian Cn I ed plans fo: • 1 • community ' where plec 1 would clea paint Domil I nectad~ .. ! Dommwn agency whJ ened, enabl n in mE tc Next Mm Hale House talk on \A~ can Country 1 ems of La dor.'' Folic will be Bill Kong. Tuesday E ''iktor Hun • n \Life in . '~rbuhler , i 1 .ajor frorp Roberto ~:ednesday .. on and ~ t ganda,\ at I· alil Tug~l {,Jwing even ition of In 1 Turkey,'' fr.e! entS; Anc nd EleftP,t ound out tt ·ith a talk 1 Pavlides, he week's 1 urpose of\ s to \makE known on C! o pointed c ·pportunity lent body tc .with the f, <·ampus a:tid · ight into tl ' ourttries, h . ·oint of intE foreign T.S.

y 10, 1968 Hits a powerful involving in- revolves dialogue e of whom murder. Green murderer eyes make him to Maur- not-so- ohn Roach an ol:der ga'ldey as out the effort, attention bitter fist· and Maur· witll mes. From lags nev- reveals interweav- een Maur- the atten- Nhorn they evil and the him. At both feel in- crimes een Eyes. feels that going senseless which he commit. a superb venerated John in his and incredi- deviant with ex- ish Maur- his and Green give and portrayals up to a not Alliance, Two Frats Sponsor Sytnposiu.nt- Freeman Robinson of the Brothers, a nation wide Black mili- ant group; and Ralph Boyd of the Schenectady N.A.A.C.P. will 1e the speakers at the second half of the symposium on Black >ower to be held Monday, May 13 at Phi Gamma Delta at 7:00 >,M. The symposium is sponsored by Theta Delta Chi and Phi · (aroma Delta in collaboration with the Black Alliance at Union. Robinson will talk on Black Power as a separatist movement :bile Bo;yd wHl speak on the view that integration and co-opera- ion between blacks and whites will eventually eliminate dis- rimination. This past Monday the first part of the symposium, focusing , n both the psychological and sociological bases of racial .pre- udice, was held at Theta Delta Chi. Prof. Sherwood Fox of the ociology department and Prof. C:lare Graves of the psychology · department were the speakers. Prof. Fox distinguished between prejudice am! discrimination prejudice being a disparaging attitude toward some faction and .Uscrim·ination being an. act in some way deleterious to a faction. 1le further noted that comtemporary American society is basically :Hscriminatory and racist. Prof. Graves described the attitude of the Negro .in terms of .t basic desire for power and self-determination. In stating that this attitude was understandable and predictable in view of their position in relation to society's establishment, he drew analogies to emerging nationalism in the American colonies, the develop- ment of labor unions in America, and the nature of the develop- ment of other racial minorities in America. The discussion peried was largely an examination of the state of the Negro subculture. The speakers agreed that if the white estabHshment is not ready to forfeit a measure of control to the the Negroes are ready and able to take it violently, They . that steps toward the solution .of the problem must be made on a personal level so that this social upheaval be no more painful and disruptive than it has to be. All interested faculty and students are cordially invited to the final part of the symposium on Monday. JFC To Investigate Discri'rnination At Tuesday's I.F.C. meeting, Jim Male suggested that the IFC make a statement about the problem of discrimination in Union.'s fraternities be- fore the administration takes any action against the fraterni- ties. Male feels that any organiza- •i tion practicing discrimination wiii not last another decade. He 1 also noted that a few houses or I a few members of a single house ~~ hurt the entire system. He r asked that each IFC representa- tive discuss the matter with the members of his house in antici- J of a definite statement to ( made at a future meeting. Brian Crandall next announc- l ed plans for an enter-fraternity • 1 ' community service proJect : where pledges and brothers 1 would clean up, repair, and paint Dominion House in Sche- nectady. ~ Dominion House is a social Dinner A dinner will be held for all students who have studied or worked abroad in Hale House Tuesday at 6:30 PM. Any stu- dents who have participated in such activities or plan to do so are invited to attend. In order to stimulate interest in foreign study and work ex- perience, the Department of Modern Languages and the com- mittee for study abroad are jointly sponsoring a dinner and discussion meeting. Those who have already been abroad will share their experiences with students who are planning to go. All interested students are re- quested to contact Professor Theodore G. Schwarz, chairman of the committee for foreign study, or Professor Klemm of the Department of Modern Lan- guages. Independents Assault Apathy, Call For Action By PETER WEINGOLD Describing themselves as members of an 'amorphous or- ganization with no constitution and only ad hoc leaders,\ sev- eral students in the newly form- ed Independent Student Organi- zation called for \the individual student to take the initiative\ towards bettering Union. \We are very concerned with the lack of intellectual and cul- turai life as well as a lack of esprit de corps here,\ said Paul VIvian, organizer of the group and now a member of the steer- ing committee. \tt is our hope to play the role of a spark and to work through the already es- tablished power structure as rr.uch as possible. On the whole, however. we believe that the A:C.C .• Student Council, I.F.C., and U.I.C. have failed in this rea m, and therefore whenever necessary we intend to initiate activities on our own accord.\ Saying that the Union student has been too complacent and has merely tried to push the re- sponsibility for a better intel- lectual life here ento the adtnin- istration and faculty, Vivian added that the student body must accept the responsibility for present weaknesses and move toward overcoming them. The Independent Students Or- ganization is an attempt by a concerned group of Union men to do just that. Through fac- u:ty-student sherry parties, art exhibitions, lectures and other activities including weekend parties, the I.S.O. hopes to get more and more support, to in- crease unity and to make 'inte!- lectualism' respectable on cam- pus. \We want to make it clear, however,\ said Vivian, \that we are not anti-fraternity ancl that at the same time we don't want to be thought of as a '600 man fraternity.' 'lhe constructive ac- tiLlns taken by several of the f~aternities are to be applauded. This coming Arts Weekend is a prime examp~e of what the fraternities can do once they ~Iecide to act. We hope to work along with fraternities when- ever possible but at the same time we will work to build a strong independent movement which can exist side by side with the fraternities and work along with them for the good of Union.'' In llne with their policy to provide an attractive alterna- tive to fraternity life which will be socia:lly as well as intellect- ually stimulating, the I.S.O., working through the Davidson Entertainment Committee has announ.ced definite plans to hold both a cocktail party and a band party oB Saturday of Spring Weekend. The Commit- tee, composed of BiU Dougher- ty, Mike Fishman, Paul Fox, Ed Grandbois, Dave Zapata and Paul Vivian has acquired the services of the \Blue Lunch\ to p~ay at both parties. The par- ties will be held in Fox House lounge and courtyard. Dress will be tie and jacket for the cocktail party and casual for tile band party at night. The Com- mittee emphasized that the par- ties are being held as 'a real, functional alternative to the fra- termty parties.\ They will be open to independents and fra- ternity men alike for a charge of $3 to both parties. Mixed drinks will be served at the aft- ernoon cocktail party and a li- quor punch will be served at night. No beer will be served and the Committee thinks this will do away with the rowdy drunkenness which has unfor- t:.~nately come to characterize \rveral of the more infamous fraternity parties. It is also asked that the hope- fully small group of non-think· ers who have been ripping down the announcement signs will at least have the courtesy to aHow their fellow Unionites to be- come aware of the parties. Through the new organiza- tion, all independents and those fraternity men who feel their respective House are not doing enough, can do what must be done to make Union, or at least c;ttempt to make Union an alive, interested, and attractive school. The group is open to all stu- dents at Union, fraternity and independent alike; and it is hoped that this opportunity will be taken advantage of by all of you disgusted yet apathetic peo- ple too wrapped up in your own existences (or lack thereof) to do something constructive for the Union community as u whole. Anti· Vietnam War FUm \TeU Me lies\ Examines, Shocks, and Tells No Lies By STEVE F@X \Our intention is to put the word 'Vietnam' before you,\ say two of the cast of Peter Brooks' new film, \Tell Me Lie;\ show- ing in SS016 tonight, ;:,aturday and Sunday night at 7 and 9 p.m. Though using the appall- ing, degrading war as grounds for moral indignation and dis- gust, the director is actually un- dertaking a m o r e universal study of the individual versus the mass conscience. There is no real plot. The movies describe the agonizing self-searching of a group of Eng- lish intellectuals to somehow in- fluence Washington to stop the war at first by trying to get their own unheeding govern- ment to respond but later aban- doning conventional channels for other approaches: meetings, marches and rallies, and finally some very startling methods. Brooks seems to be pointing out the increasing uselessnes.s of Thoreauvian civil disobedi- ence against governments which have now developed defenses against challenges by disside.nt individuals. While the essayist warned of any coercion when refusing to pay taxes supporting the Mexican war by gladly go- ing to jail and embrassing the authorities, the modern estab- lishment unhesitatingly clamps down non-conformists who step beyond rigidly proscribed limits. The movie makes its point in an allegorical use of convention- al newsreel material. When one unwitting star of the film, Brit- ish Prime Minister Harold Wil- son, is approached with a peti- tion against Commonwealth sup- port of Saigon, he hurriedly steps into a limousine and drives away. Undismayed, our hero tries to call the then Foreign Secretary, George Brown, on the phone, but is answered by an unsympathetic secretary. Fin- ally, he and his wife go on a peace march which is kept mov- ing along an unobsrusive route of sidewalks by a line of bob- bies. The parade is not very remarkable except for the sym- bols of authorities who literally shield passers-by from any con- tact with the demonstrators. The government has successfully muffled a protest. Members .of the group exam- ine the question of the supreme sacrifice as a form of protest, since only illegal statments of feelings seem to get any atten- tion. Paradoxically, while one may give his life for the war in Vietnam, one cannot die against it. Director Brooks' ver- dict is that it is more cowardly to die like sheep for a cause you do not believe in or absent yourself from the scene with a last gesture than it is to stay alive and keep trying. The think- ers go back to work. Stokeley Carmichael makes a self-consci- ous appearance and says \Burn.\ The only answer is negative. There is no hope. No one can answer. Looking at a picture book of Vietnam, one protagonist sees another picture of a crying mother hold- ing a bandaged baby. Looking closer, the child's face is swath- ed except for charred, hanging lips. \How long can you look at this before it doesn't affect you any longer?\ he asks a friend who looks at it for a minute and then puts it down. Suddenly, the child begins to squirm and the lips mave si- lently. The photo has become a moving picture. Later it be- comes moral real as it is pro- jected on a man's bare stomach. It now has vitality and flesh color. Is the horror lessening? Tell me a story of politics and right and wrong to make me forget we need to burn people and then to patch them up. Tell me lies about why we are in Viet- nam. • With Mohawk's Weekends Unlimited it's ch aper to go home agency which will, when op- ened enable people who have n' in mental institutions to to society. Several organizations have recent- been established in New rk. Blither this weekend than to stay at school! Five Speeches Union's newly formed Inter- national Students Association 1 proclaimed next week \In- ternational Week\ at Union and has scheduled several discus- sion-talks featuring Union for- students on campus. Next Monday at 7 P.M. in Hale House Esteban Anker wi!l talk on \A Typical Latin Ameri- can Country with All the Frob· 1 ems of Latin America: Ecua- dor.\ Following Anker's talk will be Bill Ng speaking about Kong. Tuesday evening will feat1;1re ' .. iktor Hungerbuhler speakmg • n \Life in Switzerland.\ Hun- . ·~rbuhler . is a senior physics 1 .ajor from Switzerland. I Roberto Okello will speak ~ : ednesday evening on \Educa- '· on and Social Structure in l ganda,\ arid Zafar Malik and I alil Tug~l will talk the fol· {,,wing evening on \Social Con- ition of India\ arl.d \Traveling 1 Turkey,'' respectively. Two fr.eshman Greek stu- entS; Andreas Papanicolaou nd Eleftherios Pavlides will ound out the week's discussions ·ith a talk on~Gre~ce Today.\ Pavlides, who is chairman of he week's events, said that the urpose of \International Week\ s to \make our organization l~nown on campus.\ Pavlides al- o pointed out that this was an ·pportunity for the Union stu- lent body to become acquainted . with the foreign students on <·ampus artd to gain more in- , ight into the affairs of foreign 'ourttries, both from the stand· . ·oint of internal difficulties and foreign countries view the T.S. Dr. John Ellis Holoman for- n:er president of the National Medical Assocation will speak on \Racism and Health\ on Thursday, May 16th at Martin Luther King Jr. Elementary School on Stanley and Stueben streets at 8:00 P.M. The pro- gram which is snonsored by the local NAACP, the Schenectady Committee for Human Rights and the Schenectady Public school system adult education division is free. The pledge class of Phi Ep- silon Pi Fraternity will hold a carwash Saturday, May 11, to raise money for the Rock Warn- er Fund and a picnic on Mothers Day, May 12, for about forty children from the Schenectady Chi!dren Center Orphanage Pledges will wash cars at the Gulf Station at the corner of State Street and Brandywine from 9 A.M. until 5 P.M. for $1.1:0 per car. The picnic will take place in Jacksons Gardens from 11:30 until 3:30, Sunday. Hans Morgenthau, the noted political scientist, will not be coming to Union to speak at a convocation scheduled for next Monday, May 13 according to Dean of Students Charles Olton. Olton received a telegram from Morgenthau's wife last Monday stating that her hus- band had planned to have an operation next summer but had been forced to enter the hos- pital ·immediately. He thus can- celled all of his engagements . There will be a meeting of the Circle K Club this Sunday night at 8:00 in Hale House. All members are required to at- tend. .Membership is still open to interested students. The Linebacker staff and any other interested students will meet in West College Cafeteria at 7 P.M. Monday, May 13. The and ready to evaluate. With good cooperation, the results shou:d be published in two weeks. INTRODUCING by~efJd£ A bea~tiful pin with a birthstone for each member of the family. She will cherish it forever. For Only $12.50 TIME CENTER JEWELERS ii ~ Go-home costs Stay-at-School costs Eat on Mom and Dad No Charge (They'll be glad to see you) Borrow $5 from Dad +$5.00 Use Dad's car No Charge (There's gas in it) See your best girl (This must be worth something) Weekends Unlimited air fare $25.00 (Fly all you want for $25) YOUR TOTAL COST $20.00 HERE'S HOW TO TAKE OFF: Meals $8.25 Saturday movie 2.00 Gas for the car 2.00 Beer and pizza 2.10 (With the fellows) Miscellaneous 6.00 Loss at gin rummy 6.00 YOUR TOTAL COST $26.35 1. Pick your weekend. Fare app.l ies from 3. Ask for positive space reservations on the 12:01 a.m. Saturday to 6 p.m. Sunday.* flights of your choice. 2. Check Mohawk's passenger schedule for 4. Reservations must be made on the Wed- weekend flights from your city. Then nesday, Thursday or Friday preceding your phone Mohawk or your travel agent for departure. The first leg of your journey specific flight reservations desired. (Ex- must begin on Saturday and your return cept Canada.) trip must begin before 6 p.m. Sunday. The \Long\ Weekends Unlimited Fare* $45 3 Days- Fly All You Want- Sat. Sun. Mon. Add Monday to your weekend for only $20 more. It works exactly like Weekends Unlimited but it gives you another day to prowl around the east. Only difference is you can't fly between 6:00a.m. and 10:00 a.m. Monday (our ~egular business commuters might frown if you took their seats). MOHAWK \WEEKENDS UNLIMITED I\ *Subjecfta official tariff revisions and restrlctiGns. 3

Reason ,for Hope Page 2 Concordy Sports Demonstration Page I - Nine Seeks Ninth Win; Face Larries Here Sat. The Garnet nine guns for their ninth straight victory against St. Lawrence on Alexander Field tomorrow at 1:30. Next Tuesday the hatsmrn trawl to Northfield, Verm<>nt to play Norwich. The Larries wiH come to Schenectady with a 6-5 mark that bas included victories over one team the Garnet defeated (Hobart, 2·1) and losses at the hands of two teams tl!e Dutchmen have defeated (Clarkson 16-4 and Rochester 9-5 in fourteen innings). Recently the Larrics took powerful Syracuse eleven innings before succumb- ing 6-5. Bill Neidel. with a 3-0 season's rrurk wi'll be on the mound Saturday and will probably be opposed by sophomore Bob Hayden of the Larrie:;, a cune baH, ::;inkerbaU pitcher. Bob Hallenback will start on Tuesday against Norwich, a team which Union has had relative success against through the years. In 11 games since 1913 the Garnet have won nine while losing nnly two. Tough Week For Bensonmen: Fall To Middlebury, Hamilton By !\-liKE REGER Playing against their stiffest competition of the year, the l'nion varsity tennis team drop- ped both of their matches this week F rosh Siickmen Win By .JAY BLITZMA.N Coach Gary Brown's frosh stickmen extended their win streak to two this past week, by Yirtue of an 8-3 victory at Mid· dlebury Wednesday. Oa Tuesday, the Garnet net- men lost a close 5-4 decision to l\Hdtllebury, The Dutchmen were even with Middlebury in the singles, 3-3, but the Panth- ers gained the margin of victory in tile doubles, 2-1. Winning in the singles competition were Jeff Kurziu~. Brad Wheatley, and Pete Siegel. The doubles team of Wheatley and Siegel tri- umphed in straight sets, 6·0, 6-1. . ThE netmel?- faced NCAA reg- IOnal champiOn Hamilton on Wednesday and were crushed 8·0. The closest match of tlle day -was in the singles when Jeff South was edged 14-12, 7-5 by hi.s Hamilton opponent. The last doubles match was nDt p!ayec:l. Union will participate in the ICAC tournament at RPI tilis weekend. Senior Sam Dill, who will be out of action ag.ainst TrinHy, fires at the goal in 6-3 loss to Cortland. Stickmen Fall, 6-3 By LEN SIMON The stickmen, alth0ugh out- shooting Cortland State through. out the game, failed to hit the nets at all in the second half and fell to their second defeat in nine contests, 6-3. Saturday they travel to Trinity. After staking Cortland to an early 1-0 lead, the Garnet struck back with three second period goals. Tad Knight, with an as- sist from Bruce Westby, tied the score on a picture feed from be- hind. Moments later, on a man advantage situation, Lee Schnei- der tallied with a pass from Doug DuvaL Just before half- time Rich Swan batted in a high pass from West by, and the hosts left the field with a 3-1 lead. Key to the first half perform- ance was the play of Larry Gil- lette and Ken Auerbach. Gil- lette completely shut off Harry B!ank, wllo was fourth leading s<:orer in the country last sea- son. For the entire contest, Blank managed only one goal, and that came on a loose ball situation in front of the crease. Auerbach played his best game of the season, getting 13 saves, most of them coming before in- termission. The second half saw the Stat- ers get five goals, while the Gar- net got many shots and con- verted none. AH told, Union outshot the visitors 38-23. Cort- land goalie Pete Roy played an outstanding game in tlle nets. Defensive lapses and forced passes cost the Gamet at least two goals. The Garnet were never in .serious trouble during the con- test. Pacing the offense were Ken Lorenze with two goals and Wayne Christie whD netted three. While offensive perform- ance was satisfactory, there were nurr:erDus scoring oppor- tunities in front of the crease ·.1·hich were not capitalized on. Trinity now stands 5-2, play- ing a less competitive schedule than the Garnet. Their losses have come at the hands of Am- herst and UMass. Attackman Sam Dill is out at least for to- morrow with an injury. Steve Ritterbush has been working out with a cast, and may see ac- tion. Soph Doug Duval will ;==========================probably move to attack if help is needed there. Old Dutch Restaurant OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK By HENRY FEIN The varsity track team con- cluded its dual meet season with a disappointing 87-55 loss to Hamilton, to finish the cam- paign with a 1-5 record.. The frosh triumphed over Cobleskill Wednesday by a 76-64 score. A lack of sufficient manpower once agai,n spelled defeat for the varsity Garnet. The Con- tinenta1s swept the 880, mile, two-mile, and ,pole vault without Union opposition. Dave Gray took second spot in the 100, and Al Seesoms once again won the 220 and 440, in 22.1 and 49.3 respectively. Fritz Turner had another fine high jump performance, tri- umphing at 6' 1\. Art McCabe won the long jump with a 21' 5%\ leap, and took a second in the triple jump. George Gard- ner won the shot put with a heave of 44' 10%,'', Ed Blechncr won the discus, with a toss of 132' 81;2 \. The frosh once again did a fine job against tough opposi- tion. Piling up a large number of seconds and thirds in the events they did not win, the Dutchmen outscored their well- balanced opponents. Mario 1959MGA - Fischetti and Joe Girkup team- .~.---­ cd to fin.ish second and third in : both the HlO and 220 and the Garnet won the 440 without op- • position. Terry McMannus fin- ished second in the mile run in 4:32. Joe Burgess and Rich Cooperwasser ran unchallenged in the two-mile and finished in 1G:17 and 11:03 respectively. The Garnet 440 relay of Girkup, Fischetti, Steve MacKenzie, and Harold Heckman triumphed tn , 45.9. The mile relay lost per- haps the closest race of the day, 1 • as Heckman aLmost caught his CobleskHl foe on the anchor leg, mnning a fine 51.5 quarter mile. In the field events. Bob Berg. er wan the high jump at 5' 8\ and Scot Wagar took the pole vault at 12'. Both the varsity and frosh travel to RPI tomorrow for the first annual ICAC champion- • ships. Since lack of depth will not be as much of a problem in such a large meet, where only the top performers will make the finals, the Garnet should do quite well if the individual stars live up to expectations. Mama Bianchi's The I 1 nii the cla~ with 65 Engine , Fine Italian & American Food The Fr: held at 8 Union stu House at Delta Chi concert. I held in l\1 Very Good Condition $750 Call JEFF CHRISTIANA 346-1264 Open Sunday Special Tues. & Thurs: Spaghetti & Meatballs with Salad and Cof.fee-$1.00 1135 Barrett St. Private Banquet Room Tickets person ai per perso all dormit in the Stu Arts~ Term1 Fine individual performances ,, ere turned in by midfielder Steve Berek, who scored once alil.d was generally aggressive, a!jld Larry Sykes <?n defense who cl'lecked aggressively, at one point almost knocking out an unfortunate Middlebury oppon- ent. John Howell turned in a solid perfommnce, as did Don Hoover and Bruce Dugan, both of whom .scored once. A Touch of Holland in Schenectady Excellent Food - Moderate Prices CCMFCHT BY H!LVES Arts W sponse to fraternitiE tellectual \extreme! ing\ by 1 its ongin Mea<l s a wee.tten1 Preside RPI Du1np.r; Golfers By JOHN DENEFRIO The golf team lost by the dis- appointing score of 4 % -2 ~ 2 to RPI Wednesday at the Troy Country Club. In contrast to the consistant and improving -;ty le shown in previous meets, the Garnet seven showed litt!e to praise. RPI swept the first fotu matches: Rich Horsman dropping his match 4-3, J o h n Hine suffermg his first deteat 6-5, Dcug Vergith losing 4-3, and Ward B!tiht falling on the final hole. Dick Adams was the low medalist for the Garnet with an 31. Adams and Jeff Smith were the only winners while Rich Critchlow sah·aged a tie. The team ;,viii have to come hack from his disappointing meet to pose a challenge to fav· o rites Clarkson and Alfred in the ICAC Tournament at Alfred next Monday. Union has finish- ed second and fifth the last two years. After a long trip, the li nkmen will face Middlebury and St. Michaels the next day at Middlebury .. 10% DISCOUNT FOB ALL UNION STUDENTS 1tS17 Union St. Phone 374-5770 SUMMER JOBS Summer jobs which can co:~tinue during Senior year at College. We are looking for 2 Class o f1969 students who live in capital district area for summer sales work with guaranteed i,ncome. Phone 869-9571 for appointment there's one place that does it! • Watch Repairs • Diamonds Reset • Jewelry Repaired WORK DO~E • Rings Sized • Engraving • ON Pearl & Bead Stringing THE PREMISES - ~ J& 'V Ja:'WELRY • .t.a..I. COMPANY 315 ·State Street. Schen5Cta~ FR 4-8219 - --- -·------~--···----- - -----.::::-:;:-;-;========-, \' • I RITZ RESTAURANT feat u 1725 Van Vrar•l<en Avenue ring HOME SIYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS. CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Parties Pizza & Sandwiches at All Hours Serving Schenectady Ov~r 30 Years Open Daily 11 A.M. !e> 3 A.M. Gershon's Sandwiches Cold Cuts Salads Open Tues. - Sun. 8 A.M. to 9 P.M. Ph: EX 3-0617 1600 Union St. l • The whole of the gentleman's comfort is the proprietor's concern- and the excellent shirts here depicted are proof of it. Half-sleeved, they are designed for maximum b 1 reeziness in a humid season. ~------ ----· ----~~------------------------------~ by EAGLE 5.98-8.50 ..... 326 STATE ST. 371-1061 THURSDAY 'TILL NINE he feels · a step in ever he a ber of se might be event un< college b Suppor1 fraternity volved pa leges in a 30 Benni artists pr4 their WOI . Upsilon,~ Albany 81 Total a tween 40 The rn' included shop in Saturday tended h4 Lost Cit~ Othe1 though n the I.F.C. concert i pair of Memorial The co1 and AmeJ sented by under th1 man and rected b~ Among solo bY R Purcell's and Rich Castre's 1 , the origi · Union Gl TheMo watch\ bl After th1 Mead, such a praised president contribut: All musi· died by Rollie wa the arts Prof. A DepartmE participat the New Pittinos I IFC Pur4 vide meal participaJ

ion Arts Weekend Page 3 Founded at Union College 1877 Letters Page2 Girkup team- ~~---------------------s_c_H ... E_N ... EC ... T_A_D_Y_, N_Ew_. _v_o_R_K.;_' _lu_E_s_o_A_Y;_' M_. _A_Y_1_4,;.., -~9_6_8--------------------~P:;RI~C:,E_l~S_:C:.EN_T_S and third in :I 22H and the without op- fin- mile run in and Rich un.challenged finished in respectively. ef Girkup, and triumphed in lost per- of the day, caught his anchor leg, quarter mile. Bob Berg- jump at 5' 8\ the pole and frosh for the champion- 1 ef depth will a problem in where only will make should do dividual stars ,nchi's Food tballs with Room The Left Banke will appear Friday in the Fieldhouse with the Rascals. Rascals Featured This year's Spring Weekend will highlighted by an appearance of \Young Rascals\ on Friday May and the \Paul Butterfield Blues \ on Saturday May 18. The \Left n~·-·'--·\ is also slated to perform on night, Tom Flynn, president the class of 1969 announced. The Friday night concert will be held at 8 p.m. in the Field House. Union students will enter the Field House at the northeast door near Delta Chi as was done at the last concert. Saturday's concert will be held in Memorial Chapel. Tickets for Friday night are $3 per person and for Saturday are $2.50 per person. They are being sold in all dormitories, fraternity houses, and in the Student Activities Office. Arts Weekend Is Termed Successful Arts Weekend, designed as a re- sponse to the college's request that fraternities contnbute more to in- tellectual life on campus, was termed \extremely successtul and encourag- ing\ by uamel lVlead of Psi Upsuon, , its onginator. Mead said he hopes to make such a weekend an annual event at Umon. President Harold C. Martin said he feels that fraternities had \made Tr~ \Young Rascals\ have been descrrbed as having a restlessness ~bout music - a \We haven't reached 1t yet\ sort of attitude. There is never one set arrangement to a song, \The most typical thing about them and the ~n~y predictable thing is that they fim~h off the evening with one song wh1ch has become their trad~mark - 'Cute' - an improvised mus~cal goofball that relaxes all their tensiOns and throws out every stray hang-up and left over emotion.\ There recordings include the sin- gles \I Ain't Gonna Eat Out My Heart Anymore\ and \Good Lovin\ and the album \The Young Rascals \ <?£ the \Left Banke,\ it has been wrrtte~ that they :'have been turning hea~s .m the music world ever since nee 1n late 1966. Their hit \Pretty Ballerina\ was singled out by Leon Ballerina\ w,as singled out by Leon- ard Bernstem on television as an example of what rock music could be . TJ:le \Butterfield Blues Band\ mu: sic Is called \sound and soul where folk, blues, rock, and jazz 'unite.\ Their electronically amplified sound comes on with a roar like a couple of jets but it swings and swings hard: Together the band appeals to a w1de spectrum of listeners Pop music enthusiasts are drawn by the compelling beat and the sound of today. Blues buffs find it a new ex- ponent of a vital tradition.\ Goldstein And Rundell Non1inated For Student Body President Post By NEIL S. KRAMER A freshman, Edgar Rundell, and a junior without previous Student Coun· cil experience, Mark Goldstein, were nominated last night by a caucus of the 1968-1969 Student Council to run for Student Body President on Tues- day, May 26. Rusty Manker, '69, pre- ently serving .as Student Council Vice- President, was eliminated by the cau- cus. Construction Begins Ground was 'broken at 4:30 p.m. yesterday for construction of the new $6-million center for science . and engineering, expected to be completed by HJ70. The center will be constructed by Wade Lupe, Inc., of Schenec- tady, for $5,924,000. Dr. James D. Palmer, Dean of the Center for Sci- ence and Engineering at Union ex- pects the project to take more than two years to complete. Participating in the formal cere· mony were Dr. Harold C. Martin, president of the college; members of the buildings and grounds com- IY'ittee of Union's board of trustees; Lupe; and Dean Palmer. The completed center will have e i g h t sections, Bailey Hall, the Electrical Engineering Building and Butterfield Hall, plus five new \pavilions.\ Designed for maximum flexibility, the new structures will have no interior bearing walls so that space can be rearranged at minimum cost. \Wet\ spaces - the laboratory and research areas requiring heavy supplies of liquids, as for chem- . istry and biology - will be clust- ered in one section. \Dry\ areas, such as those used in physics and electrical engineering, w i ll also be gathered in one area. The building, air-conditioned throughout, will have glass plumb- ing for waste disposal to eliminate the problem of corrosion by acids. In their remarks to the nominating body, all the presidential aspirants expressed similat· platforms, based upon a continuance of programs al· ready begun, such as the All College Academic Council and further reform of the social rules. In addition, Man- ker acented his ex:perience in student government, while Goldstein and Run· dell both remarked that their re· spective inexperience and youth were not serious detriments to their like- lihood of success in office. It seems that the rejection of Manker indicates that the new council members are pleased with the present direction of student government, but are anxious to see faster progress. The second half of the loosely connected Manker-Burwick ticket will have his name on the ballot, as Jim Stillman '69 will oppose Bob Bum•iC'k '70 to succeed Manker as vice-presi- dent, Juniors Dan Aronzon and Alvin Levi were nominated to run for Sec- retary of the Student Council, which is the office held by Burwick this year. Richard Tilghman was eliminat- ed by the new Student Council from the race for secretary. In last year's election, Ray Pike de- feated Bob Winner for the presidency, 441-290: Grady Aronstamm, now serv- ing as President, narrowly edged out Art McCabe for the then newly created office of vice-president, 335- 330. Burwick defeated Levi for secre· tary 447-216. Freshnten Hear Shinagel, Sharlet, Olton, Vivian By ALLEN GARTNER \When I came to Union I was most concerned with the complacency, apathy, and acceptance of the status quo ... of the student body. I am pleasantly surprised to see an awak· ening, even if it took an issue such as the grading system to arouse it.\ Profs Reaffirm Press Freedom These were the words of Professor Michael Shinagel to almost 200 fresh· men at a class meeting last night in ss 016. Also speaking to the enthusiastic audience were Grady Aronstamm, Dean of Students Charles S. Olton, Professor Robert S. Sharlet, and Paul Vivian. Professor Sharlet, in a well re- ceived speech, cited the case for stu- dent power and emphasized a few guidelines for student action. Included in the case for student power were the ideas that students pay to attend an educational institution, they have numbers, organization, and a commu- nications system, and they attend re- sponsive institutions, that is, the fac- ulty will respond to students. · a step in the right direction.\ How- ever he also noted that a larger num- ber of separate programs on campus might be preferable to one overall event under the direction of a single college body. 441 In Class Of 1972 Set Editor's note: The following is a statement, by Professors Sherwood D. Fox, Manfred Jonas and Charles Gati officers of the Union College Chapter, American Association of University Professors. Recent questioning of freedom of expression ana of the press and signs of increasing stud.ent awareness have impelled the offieers of the Union College Chapter, American Associa- tion of University Professors, to re- mind all segments of the college com- munity of certa.i11 general rules that we accept as guidelines. Dean Olton emphasized the import- ~nce of stu?ent participation in build- mg expansion :plans for Union which include a 6 million dollar science center, a college center (student union) to be constructed by 1970 or 1971, and an Arts Center, which is still very much in the planning stages. Supported fina~cially by the Int~r­ fraternity Council, the program m- volved participation by three area col- leges in additwn to Union. More than 30 Bennington, Slddmore, and Union artists presented public exhibitions of their work all day Saturday at Psi , Upsilon, Sigma Phi and in Old: Chl;lpel. Albany State also made contnbutwns. Total attendance was estimated be· tween 400 and 500. The musical part of the program included a concert by the Jazz Work- shop in front of Memorial Chapel, Saturday and a lively and well-at- tended hootenany featuring the New Lost City Ramblers Saturday night. 0 t h e r events over the weekend, though not directly associated with the I.F.C. activities, were a Glee Club concert in Memorial Chapel and a pair of one-act plays in the Nott Memorial Theater on Saturday night. The concert, a \program of English and American choral music,\ was pre- sented by the Wellesley College Choir under the direction of William Her- man and the Union Glee Club di- rected by Hugh A. Wilson. Among the highlights were a bass solo bY Richard Theokas '68 in Henry Purcell's \0 Sing Unto the Lord,\ and Richard R. Terry's \Richard de Castre's Prayer to Jesus,\ done in 1 , the original Middle English by the · Union Glee Club. The Mountebanks presented \Death- watch\ by Jean Genet and \Ten Years After the Party\ by Eric Lerner. Mead, who conceived the idea of such a fraternity·sponsored event, praised Richard Amesbury, I.F.C. president and Ross Fraser for their contributions to t h e final success All musical arrangements were han- dled by James Talbert, while Alan Rollie was responsible for setting up the arts exhibits. Prof. Arnold Bittleman of the Arts Department originally contacted the participating colleges and obtained the New Lost City Ramblers. David Pittinos made arrangements with the IFC Purchasing Association to pro- vide meals free of charge for program participants. To Be Admitted • ID the Fall By PAUL FARNHAM -Next year's freshman class totaling 441 students will be the largest in Union's history according to Jonathan Pearson III, Director of Admissions. Pearson said that the number of applications increased by 100 from last year. Out of 1630 applicants, 902 students were accepted. Pearson has set a goal of 2,000 applicants for next year m order to give the college a wider variety in selection. At pres- ent Union receives the same number of applications as Wiltiams, Trinity, and Amherst, all of which accept a smaller number of students for their freshman classes. The average SAT scores for the Class of 1972 are 611 on the Verbal and 654 on the Math. Pearson said that this is about the same as last year. \• The admissions office was surprised that the Math score was in the 87th percentile while the Verbal was in the 92nd percentile, because of the empasis which was traditionally been placed on science here. However the scores do put Union in the top 30 colleges in the country. Members of the freshman class have indicated the following preferences for fields of study: 207 in the human- ities and social sciences; 138 in the sciences; 80 in the four year engineer- ing program; 16 in the five year en- gineering program. Statistics on geographical distribu· tion, number of sons of alumni, and percentage of public and private school students are still on the com- puter and will be released in the future. Pearson estimated that the breakdown of the last figure will be 75% public and 25 % private includ- ing parochial schools. Pearson was concerned over the fact that the one Negro student who had paid his money decided to go elsewhere. Union had five Negro ap- plicants and accepted four of them. - Pea1'son · said he is going to ask the student body to help in the recruit- ment of Negroes and he plans to meet with the Black Alliance. He be- lieves the problem results from a lack of communication on a personal level with prospective Negro students. Because financial aid is playing a more important part in the admis· sions process, Pearson stated that the college offered $250,270 in scholar- ship aid to 218 appllcants who were accepted. $121,2!JO in scholarship money has been claimed by 114 stu- dents. ·rms means that 25.8% of the class will hold scholarships as compared with 30.8% last year. Although the number of scholarships is fewer, the average amount is higher this year. Pearson said that Union had lost quite a few students who were ac· .cepted, obviously because other col· leges gave them more money. In addition, 39 applicants received Federal Educational Opportunity Grants totaling $20,650. These go to economically disadvantaged students. Students are granted up to $800 a per· son and the amount must be matched by the college. More than 180 students of the class have indicated a desire to borrow $131,000. College loans will therefore exceed scholarships by $10,000. Seven freshmen have been awarded jobs although there has been opposition to this in past years. Saga Food Service also offers 16 board jobs. In order to increase the number of applications nex:t year, Pearson call- ed for help from all faculty and stu- dents. He welcomes any ideas on the subject. He hopes to continue the program of coffee hours started by students last December and the fac- ulty visits to high schools which also began this year, Pearson would like more students to visit their own high schools to look for prospective applicants. He believes that those people concerned with the number of Negro students at Union will also be able to help increase the number of applications. The following are excerpts from a \Joint Statement on Rights and Free- doms of Students,\ adopted by the Association of American Colleges, United States Natianal Student Asso- ciation, American Association of Uni- versity Professors, and other organi- zations on student affairs. \Freedom of Inquiry and Ex:pres· sion. Students a11d student organiza- tions should be free to examine and to discuss all questions of interest to them, and to ex:press opinions public- ly and privately.\ \Student Partieipation in Institu- tional Government. As constituents of the academic community, students should be free, individually and col- lectively, to express their views on issues of institutional policy and on matters of general interest to the student body. The student body should have clearly defined means to partici- pate in the formulation and applica- tion of institutional policy affecting academic and student affairs.\ \Student Publications ••• a valuable aid in establishing and maintaining an atmosphere of free and respon- sible discussion and of intellectual exploration on the campus. \The student press should be free of censorship and advance approval of copy, and its editors and managers should be free to develop their own editorial policies and news coverage.\ \Editors and managers of student publications should be protected from arbitrary suspension and removal be· cause of student, faculty, administra- tive, or public disapproval of editorial policy or content.\ Grady Aronstamm, Student Council President, talked about the council's role in eliminating the Convocation requirement, providing support for the \teach·in and taking au active part in student protest of the new grading system. He predicted that within a few years students will be making some decisions in administra- tive as well as academic affairs.- '.!'he final speaker, before the class broke up into small discussion groups, was Independent Movement leader Paul Vivian. Empasizing that the basic purpose of the Independent's Organ- ization is to offer an alternative to fraternities and to provide social and intellectual stimulation for all stu- dents, Vivian called for support for his movement from fraternity mem· hers as well as independents. StGck Market Lectures An estimated 100 students turned out to hear a lecture on \Mechanics of the Stock Market\ by Joseph Wind· beil of t h e Schenectady office of Bache and Co. last Wednesday. This was the first of a series of five lectures. Mr. Windbeil will con· tinue his talk on \Mechanics of the Stock Mal'ket\ Wednesday, May 15, at 4:::!0 p.m. irt SS 016. A paperback book entitled \How to Buy Stocks\ will be distributed to everyone there. Later lecturP.s will consist of analy~ srs of techniques of buying stocks and bonds.

2 Tuesday, May 14, 1968 ruesday, I. Letters to the. Editor Opin Pulll!shl?U. TuPsda:.·~ and Frhlays dur· Ins the srhool year by the Student Body nf l'nion C'oli~S'e. Schenectady, !'-:. Y. !\atlona1 AU\·ertbdnt; Rt'llft.>Sl'r:· tati\·e: ~atlunal EUu<.'ational Ad\o't.>l'· ti~ir1g' SetVii._e lnL'., 3GO Lexinblun Ave. :\'.Y.C'. EJI!orlul OffiLe, Uron- ner ·Huuse. l'nlon Collese. Publication Office. Schenectady Printing Com· pany, 50~ Broadway. Entered In the. S'dlt'rll'l'lULlY Pust orrke ns SeconU Class )lnil. Subscription 15c a copy. $.3 u ~·t.:'ut· Uto>livt>rt?-d anywht>re in tr~ L'nlted States. SENWR ROA:RU RH'HAIU> 1<: I'A'l'TI•~HSO::-:. JR. '70 ....... 346-8614.. . ..... E<.Iltur-ln-Chlef D- PETER DROT~lAN '6~ ........................ 372-9720 ......... .Business Manase1 SElL::;, KHA~IEI\ 'oO . .. ................. 346-8614 .................. -.... ·--Managing Edito1 JEFJ:' llH0\1'::--:t-: ·~:1 ... Jt6-~~oJ ......... :\'~1\'s Eullur r.AHY PHF.YO!'T 'GO .. n3-7841.. . . Spur.ts I-:Jitu1 STEVE FOX '70 ... . .... . .. ................. 346-3019.-........................... Featutes Edit01 RICHARD BALAGUR '69 ............................................................. -Consulting Edlto1 JUSj,;Pll A. ~IA::-:S Jlt. '6 8 ................................................................ Editor Emeritus ''Well Begun Is . .. '' We wish to heartily congratulate the Inter-Fraternity Counci-l and the individ11al houses which sponsored the higbly successful Arts Weekend on campus last weekend. The program, which presented arts from a rock and. blues concert outside Psi U to the Mountebank plays and a fine painting and photo exhibit in. Old Chapel was a con-' tribution to campus life and to the cause of the arts at. Union of which the IFC can be proud and for which the whole campus should be grateful. We are even more pleased to recognize that this was entirely planned and funded by students. We feel that recent events such as the gatherings at various houses, the Black Power Symposium and the Arts Weekend go a long way towards answering those critic£ who feel fraternities have little or nothing intellectually to offer Union. We urge the IFC and the individual houses to make such efforts permanent features of Union College Life. WE. hope that as these continue they will meet with greate1 response from the entire college community. Perhaps, if as it now appears, fraternities are determ- ined to successfully answer their critics, the future will see (we hope) an atmosphere where fraternities, in having established their value to Union beyond dispute, will meet with acceptance and gratitude by all members of the col- . lege community. They will no longer need to be on thE defensive, and much of the pressure from the administra- tion. faculty and students will no longer be necessary. This will occur a long time in the future, but fratern- ities have made a significant beginning in winning their battle. There are other matters to attend to, but \well · begun is half done.\ Traditional Natural Shoulder Clothing· Pax To the Editor: Little did I think that my modest proposal of introducing a 12-point grading system fer Unien College coulq occasion the dramatic display of student agitation ami articulation that we have witnessed over the past few weeks. Frankly, I am heartened by these student re- actiOns, for they suggest a growing sense of self-awareness among students, and an encour- agmg readiness to participate in the work before us .to make Union College a better place. Given the passionate feelings of the student body about the new gradmg system, I would agree that we should defer ac- tion on this matter for a year so that students and facu1ty can discuss this question care- fully. No syst-em can be insti- tuted effectively if most stud- ents resent it and regard it as an arbitrary display of faculty pewer. There is something much. more fundamental at stake right now than a 12-point grading system. Students want a voice m the major decision-making process of this community. 1 think that they deserve this voice, and I ho:pe that the fac- ulty will respond favorably to the proposal calling for the formation of an All-College Academic Council. I believe that the faculty will probably endorse this recommendation at its next meeting. But I would hope that the students act re- sponsibly and circumspectly, thereby demonstrating to the faculty and administratil:J.n that they deserve such a voice in the affairs of the Colle-ge. My prin:ary purpose in in- troducing the 12-point grading-- system proposal was to initiate- a process of change in the aca- demic climate at Union Col· lege. Clearly the grading sys- tem was but a beginning, not an end in itself. I had hoped that next year we. could have addressed ourselves to related matters that needed reexamina- tion and redefinition: for ex- ample, qualification for Dean's List, athletic eligibility, good standing, academic warning, continuance in the College, as well as the introduction of a Pass-Fail option for one course a year which a student would want to take outside his De- partment or Division. It ·seems to me that next year we can still accomplish all these goals -and more-through the pro. posed student-faculty dialog~e in an All-College Academw Council. What most concerns me now is that we begin to get moving on a number of these matters that vitiate the academic and cultural atmosphere -on. this campus. I share, perhaps somewhat gingerly, the sanquine feeling expressed in the Coneordy edi-. torial ('Reason Fo'r. Hope\) in the Friday, May 10, issue. If Union College is to become a truly outstanding and exciting academic community, it wi'l:l. re- quire the concerted best ef· forts of all parts of. this: com~ munity-students, faculty; ancl administration. Now that the· students are at long :last rousing themselves fFo:m t])eir self-in- volved apathy and torp.or; and the facu'lty are .aware of this new birth of student concern and commitment, the time could not be more propitious for an · entente. Perhap·s the events of the past few weeks do suggest a new and major phase in the·· history of Union CoUege. I certainly hope so-. Michael Shinagel, Chm.- Department of English~ Meeting· 1'o the Editor: If Union College ·is to take a positive step toward academic matters it must reflect the con- - census of the students as well as faculty members: In order to get a proper response in ·a · meaningful manner, we reiter- ate our. fum belief that the 12 point grading system should not go into effect this Septem- ber, and that the students, .fac- u~ty and administratic:m should meet on Tuesday, May 21, at 11:30 in Memmial Chapel to discuss the matter through dia- logue The establishment of such in- teraction between these groups is a positive and responsible step toward seeMng a common ground of ·respect for student concern in .all matters relating to the future of Union CoUege. If the ·effectiveness of such re, lationship can !be met with con- fidence and ·concern in a dia- legue, then the organization of the ACAC will be a tangible step toward proper representa- tion of both the students and faculty in the establishment of policies which concern the en- tire co:l:ege. We do feel we ha:v-e the pow- er, and the right, to defend and project our interests in the de- cision making at Union. It is our hope that a positive and responsible inv()lvement of the students aud faculty in the tab\ ling of the rz point system and the establishment .of the ACAC wm reflect the aware ness and ·concern of the rna. jority of those involved, namely the entire community. We hope the \Town Meeting\ on May 21, win serve· to enhance the drive toward such democracy in the future. St11de11t C()alition for an Academic. Vo-ice Don't Read To the Editor : I laud the effi>rts ()f the Cam~ pusc Movement to protest the · exclusion of st1:1dent represen- tation on the Maintenance De-· partment in their recent decis· ion to water the lawns. The- Committee wiB holcl a demon- strat-ion to commence· the· fol~ lowing Wednesday at which time all morally committed will take pantJn or:derly rock-throw~ ing. Those who fee I strong!~ will be ·permitted to aim at ·in•. nocent· bystanders. Encouraged by- this potential . mobi'lization of studenLinterest . I should like to make my . posie,.. tion more effediv.e in tha_!ash- ion ·of the -day, I am anno.unci-ng . the formation of a Campus Apa. thy Committee- (CAC) with: my •. self as its head (although· I'm not too intere-sted) . My te le- phone ._ number is 372\9772.. If any.one wishes to participate please do not call. We will also be circulating .strongly-wo.rded petitions with n() particular de- mands and we hope to come up with a really small number of signatures to show lack of support.· Lastly, :there will be an unannounced demonstnatien· · to the fullest extent of their incapabilities. Nell A. Lewis '68 Black& Blue ·ro- the Edit-or: After · readin-g -Mr. Balli's·. re- · cent· letter to the editor; I canY _ not. escape. the. feeling. that :he:. must .. have misttnderstu.od my rema:t:ks. at· th~ r-ecent ·-meetin·g · to. which· he·- .refers. Wh=at. J in•- tended. to--suggest was .the: pr-O-Jl•- ositi.on that; in view:; o.f ·.· tM~ · present· · disjo:intecl state. of Atn·- erican politics, it would be:-dif~ ficult fo.r any candidatE~·-to•unify the country. Unless one is con-- vi:t:teed (as-I arn not) that the· best- way to- uaify the country is to ignore its problems and de nothing,-the·evidenee·is ratfi;,... er-compelling-tllat Senator Ke'ft-· nedy is· as· well equipped as any ma-n· to bring aboq.t this unity.· One ·might reflect on· his recent success in Indiana among Negro voters on·the one·· hand and-· blue-collar workers- on the other,· two groups not generally noted ·for th€ir sense - of mutu-al brot:berhood. J. B. Board, Jr. CIUliJ::man, Dept.\ of · PMiticai-·Science · th·ere~ s~- o·ne· · pla1e · that d;oes· it! Jos. Nusbaum, Inc. 447-451 State Street Down Town Schenectady a - - - - . m a. ·.: S\t'O ; • Watch .Rep.air.s • Diamo-nds.- Reset·· • Jewelr-y\ Repaired W 0 IlK· D-QN E • · Rings .Siz~<l · • Engraving· : • ·PearJ & .Bea.d Stringing . ON•THE PRE'NfiSES The Hat \f() the Editor: I am running for the offic..! of representative-at-large to th.c All College Council. '1 he usua. Jlrocedure at Union is to base a campaign on the d e g ·r e c ()f populanty to wh1ch one ha.> aecess. But the events. of re- cent days have perhaps fereto.d the end of popularity contests; l_)erhaps the change to which \\e have looked• for so leng i.; finally hene. In that spirit I'd like to present a few of my ideas relating to some of the basic ·changt)s I'd like to see in the future. First ef all, my proposal for a Joint Committee on Academic Affairs and a basic change in the jurisdiction of the AH Col- lege Ceuncil is one of the plans submitted by the Coalition for An Academic Voice to the fac- ulty fer its perusal. I feel quite strong-ly that the student at Unien should have a major voice in EVERYTHING that happens in the college commun ity because,. after a11, it affects us either directly or indirectly. :Second, I would like te see t>arietals removed entirely. The cuUege may have its reputation to upheld, but we must retain •our insistence on the right of the student to conduct h1s own affairs, based on the moral standards to which he sub- scribes. Is there any substan- tial difference between David- son HaH and the Holiday Inn? The .. question of legislating sex- ual. activity must be· left to the individual student, not assumed by the College. cil must be continually cogniz. ant of the fact that its success or failure rests .. with its aware- ness of what is actually hap- pening here at Union·, bt:>th in the minds and activities -o£ the students. I feel that I am particularly qualified to serve as a member of the ACC, as my experience at lJ nion has encompassed .. a broad participation in student life. l am a junior, majoring in history, and have for the past year served as class repre- sentative to the Student Coun- cil. I arn a member of the varsity football and track .teams; a recipient last year ef one of Union's Outward Bound schol- arships; .and, most r e c e n t 1 y I have been quite active in the newly-formed Student Coalition for an Academic Voice. lHy concern for the intellec- tual, cultured, and social life of Union College is reflected in those items which 1 deem of utmost importance to the fu- ture of this institution. They are as follows: 1 ) a commitment to cerrect rac- ial imbalance at Union 2) an improvement of commun- ications on this campus; with other campuses, and· with the lecal community :~) a strengthening of relations . with the Schenectady com- munity ~·) a revitalization of campus publications · 5J the development of a more realistic social atmosphere through 1he intxoductianr of female students .. It -i$ my- .. oph'J:i'on that the: All- C~llege CouncH· 'can ··effective~} rltscuss these' :mattars· and, :to'· !!> large degree, take legislative ·ac- tion as . welL My greatest wish is that the All-CoH:e.ge· Council becomes a truly representative body of·th·e entire· faculty, stud.. ents, and· administration. When this has·· beerr achieved, then Union··can face up to its most pressing problems with the greatest ' eneTgy availab~·e. To- ward these ends, I see'kto repre· · sent\ the student body on the · · AU-College CounciL Edward n:· lUechner '69 Thirdly; I'd like: to see a re· a_pp;risal.· of the Comp,. Ed. sys- tehl.. Most ,of these courses have proved unsatisfactory, Would-- It not he. poss-ible to take the - gCJod courses from. this cate- gory and make. them into a cOd'e of e:ectives? In order to main' tain- .a comprehensive ·edu.cation the requ'irement- could--be chang; ea' to mclude one of- these elec. ti\Ves and one ceurse from the ~egtt-lar offerings_ outside of one's center, to be marked on a \pass-fail\ basis.- And I think any- Dean's List stu.dent should be allowed to take four courses Bn fak' ·-C. G·rt.'*\\ ,.:,0 · tne following term, designating I+~··. 0' .. '4:JIII,-ul • n· one· · of them as a \pass-fail\ · To .the Editor: course: . I h b · d' - I feel Union College, in at- av·e·· e:come -quite·' . Isap• tempting to create a \well- pointed by the activity and in- rounded\' college community:, efffcieney of· the four stu-dent d · th ·t f b · governments · orr thts carrtpns-; an -In e pursui 0 - asic soc. Their lack· of true representa~ ial needs, should ACTIVELY tiveness. and· faiiure- to- com- RECRUIT new students from mu-nicate with- students and the urban ghetto, and finance each other has resulted in an their educati.on. There is only overlapping of non;seTviee-s to , one black student in next year's.. Lhe stu<tent body.. The turnout fr-eshmaN. class. This is deplor-- for and the results-· of~tlre stud- able.,. T.l\e ~dmissions_staff do-es-- ertt . councj1 electi-ons.: of- last not discrn~11nate, but IS must go· week:'insur:e tlie continuance of fll.llther; It m'!lst bend over· these- non-policies. In order· ·to (' backward to g1ve a break to- remedy. tnis situation I ·here tlltJ p~opl~ who need and de·.. present _my, unsoli.Citetl· views serve It right now. and -declare m;yselr ln· favor-of , ~~e.t:e are so many othe~ pos,, the candidacy of Neal. Gordon ' stl:llhtnes. ~ . woul!f desire a · for. the office of All~College f~culty_- adm1ms~Nttlon - student - Counail representati.ve .. dLscussion relatmg to the fu- I h - . · _ - 1 tu11e of Union College. What ... ave :tJ!Y• yieWS·• <?n~ Nea1-s b!Iilding programs do we want?· tshrei. -, ~- qll~ldJcatio~s·;·,:hls respon~ Is coeducation. feasible? These ~:l!~t_Y,. -lllt~r-est m .stu4:ent a~\ are .questio-ns a Joint Planning faiV.s;-~nd'hl~ dyn-atu.rc' cbu;t feast\· Committee might discuss. I'd _ ble-• ~latfor.m., like to- see .the. maintenance re- ~· ~Mi--' ha'S,· sho:w~re5p&n-sitiil­ quJrement.redueed to two years Ity- -~n- his'-:pO'sit-it1n ~as.~Resident wii:h. credit-given.for intramurai A~VISor f~r the''-pas~two cyellrs. participation.· I'd like to see His s!'llE)ctiQn---as s~_n;to~;-me~!Jer ne-w ma:j~rs .. created . such as . of '~he--S~Udent -Tall:- Commttee, oa·e integr:ati·ng all ~f the Be- whtch ~Ill 1landhH~l'e -_-shd:y>-'fiV:-e·. lta:-.vioraL Sciences. . I'd hope for odd thottsan,d we ~r·U· pa~ t~'--'lt an.'\ inevease· in -.the. number of next--year-; Is· a -further· wdica- U]:)'Jlel'class.seminars, .. And I feel tiOfl i~-this·field;- _ _ . Uni()rr should he involved with. II .. Neal has demonstrated IIi- a .Ju-:nior Year.·AbPoad program~ te~~~t- in this. position- in·. th~t travel can< ·b~ an essential part, he_ Is~ to . my· knowledge;·. the' of- education..- o~ly. candidate--who-· has made ln :the· ··~irtai · analysis; I want hls_ ,YI~WS' known-,over a;nd· abn:vc a co:Hegec·m which we1 ·the stud-r·. the etghty reqm:re<!' ·signatures en1is, have• a real and stron<g·, to enter- iiTe ba:Hotmg, · voice in the affairS\· which af- rn. Neal!s platform.,. ... although feet us.< We· canno.tr· sit on oui'·· not· excessiv.ely · ambitious-. is rear ,-en:ds. and:<hav-e· po'licies die~ · qu.it-er viable. . An.· ou-tiine- fol- ' tated:to us::by others:·· We must lo:w:s: . \Gove1 can pu selves , the re1 The s1 the years , \dministrl •elves to tl They shim: The I 1-<'ACULTY 1nto an em only a LIE to bring t ·1dministra ual intercc Althol find redee · This parti' ad-ministra chatacteril the least 1 Presic a College inferior ai a measure lence of L habitants ., It W01 many are of old Un Half 1 are innum gentlemen never was clean hou: of money as persom Presic men to U1 these tim4 sistance f Experienc1 satisfactiOJ It is t too much people's r' College e: administr~ they can ~ Amid~ Martin, 01 before, or money, bl affiliated Union's hi decades o: of imagin; to suspect A stu( achieve me these adm Q:) 1617 'l Oper:1 ha:~e-7:~ _.,su;g.gestive··{l.ll;<i':.initiat~ng 1) At:t:nverhattl .t>f:the 'maill.'tt!n- vo:~ce I~the:::c~muntt~:of which,· a_nMc's.ysUitn}! wi!bh :student:.:par- W~'!are a :?al!t.- Thi~;;1s what I tlc:ipatrons; .. aimed'\at-41.iluti'on: to wa.nlh: .. I ho'pe you. <-Will\- agree. twc::vyear;s;: AbbY--'Sti.llman '69 2):~~rnrati\olP.of 'a wol!king. All• /., 8 , •.. Is In . .. 'f(j::tht :.<Edibiltf I am a •Cand4d;tMHot.the posi- tion of. A'li~College: Council Re}ltr~sentati've--at-;Lar.ge, the prit mary· for- whi.(l!r: is .to' he held· totl'l~J.!l\Clw.' Dtimng'1h~past tw(f' years; th~ • Al!cGol:J:ll'ge' Council'· hrrs made- great·:·sti'~<l'es.· toward' 'acbie!V-ing -.· a · to tat c61nmunity· · here\ at· 'Urii'on~ Dt=i's-]ite its ap' parent\~-\ su-cees-Sj' · h().W(;lver, there have-\ been - a nu'IDb!ir of in~ sta:nees~ in··whi'eh tlre~ ACC has ensountered:'·dif:ficultY·' in reitJ~· izi:llWi.ts-·own·lirmtt:itiofi:s; as well· as.;;;the -potefitralnre~f?':Of its re: soat:t!l!s;-: The/- All· 'Colle'ge Couli < · College!: Acad.emic· Count:H , gi:v- ing · ·stu:d~titS' ·an: 'adv:is·9-l!-Y •voice in curricular affaus. · 3) Tota~- abolitibll' oV social rutea. 4r Fo'i'm~tiein. o:fi,:a big~week.eud , ,, conc-ert committee which- will poll ·stud-ents ' on ~centerta:i:nm'ell..t pref~i'ent!es ·and,.,wif.P' 1nsut~·-that conce~~,~ corn~~ff ,tefici~:rrtly~-:. 5) Revisi6!F-•of ·the\\cal'tlntl~'t:\'to align omelv~S\' more'· closelY' witll other' schooJ:s~and' to,. fa· cilif~te -th~· obtliining: bf student- summer jobs. Orl .. thi's pasis I urg~ you ·to reserv-e·-orte- of yotll.\' ·hvt>\ -vote'S for N ~itl Gordo:tr\in: to1!1&1.:t'OW\~· pdmary ·and-:.- Thtirs'day>s .... ·fiilm~ el~ctidit'· '·. ll.' Pet~r--Drotman ~69': I_ Ph: EX 3- Mo1 Free

14, 1968 ally cogniz. its success its aware· hap. bath in -of the particularly a member experience .. a in student majoring for the repre- dent Coun- ber of the .teams; of one of schol- e c e·nt 1 y in the Coalition b.e inteUec- social life reflected I deem of to the fu- They correct rae- commun- with and· with relations . ctady com- of campus of a more atmosphere of ·the:· All- ··effectivel} and, :to'· \' ·ac- e-atest wish Council stud. When then its most with the To- to rE!pl'e· · , on the '69 ,_.don· ,, disap• and in- stu-dent campus-; to- com- and in an to 1 turnout -stud- of· last inuance of n order··to I \here views n·favot-of Gordon ' e .. on' Nea:lls respon- af~ :but feasi\· two c'YEillrs. -sixty .:.fiv-e·. ·pay to'-·it indica- in- rr in-. tlrat . tne· has made and· abo:vc signatur-es . ' , although is fol- ' 'maill.'U!n- to All• ~ gi:V· •voice social ~week..end will e '· closelY' nd' to·· fa·· 'stlldent' yot.t ·to -vote-s· final~ • ~69': ruesday, May 14, 1968 \Governors being accustomed to here of more crimes ethan the•y can punish, and more wrongs than they can redress, set .them- selves at ease by indiscriminate negligence, and presently for~;et the requf)st when they lose sight of the petitioner.\ Dr. Samuel Johnson, -Rasselas· XXXIV By S. N. REMARK The students and faculty of Union College have emerged ()Ver \he :ye!lrs the slaves and lackeys of their own hound me11. The :\dmmtstrators. of the Co'llege have through tenure. worked them- •elves to the position where today they have prerogatives and power. They sheuld have none! The purpose of the College is to bring men of learnir J-o'ACULTY,, and men o/ho desire _learning,. STUDENTS, toge:th~l: 1 nto an environment of mtellectual 1-nterchange which needs include only ~ UBR;ARY. ~dmi~istraters' .u.tnity rests sorely in their ability to b_ri!J.g this relationsh1p to ·frUltlOn. But how many of Union's 1dm1mstrators serve as nothing more than the condoms of intenect- ual intercourse? . Althoug~ Presi4e,nt ~artin is ~n. exceptio~, it _is d·ifficult to . fm~ rede~mmg quahtl.es m any admm1stratar w1th sizeable tenure. ·This particularly applles to those men who are leftovers from the administr!ltion ~f Carter r>avid~on. Wh'!tever may be said to have charactenzed hts years, dynamism and mnovation wauld :be among the least likely suggestions. President Martin is a man of a different cloth; He has· taken a College that feels (justly?) that its students are overwhelmingly inferior and boorish in inteHectual respects and tried to giv:e them a measure of self-respect. He has commited himself to the excel· lence of Union. Is there a similar commitment among the other in- habitants of the Administration Building. It would be tedious to name the culprits, but it is obvious that many are the men with their hands close around the pursestrings of old Union. Half the problem with old Union, though, is the \old.\ There are innumerable new issues to be confronted that some of these old gentlemen are not equipped to handle. For example, \old'; Union never was wo:rried milch with having too few Negroes. V'fe need to clean house and get new, young innovators into the key positions of money managing and personnel recruitment, and students count as personnel! President Martin has brought some vigorous young fac\llty men to Union and they are questioning many of the procedures. of these timeworn administrators. Naturally, there is significant re- sistance from the old hands. But what are their justifications? Experience, a record of excellence, the fact that there is widespread satisfaction with the College as it is now? Hardly. It is time that the tail stopped wagging the dog. Students have too much respect for these men. They should recagnize that these people's role in life is to make their intellectual development a:nd College .experience progress. smoothly. But in and of themsel'Vfi~~, administrators have no utility or merit exoept in those ways th~~ they can advance the educational process. · Amidst all of the change that has beert instituted by President Martin, one hears moans that this or that was never thought of before, or that no one paid much attention to things like raising money, building civilized dormitories, or the dignity of men un- affiliated with fraternities. Administrators from this period of Union's history must accept the guilt for this moral negligence. In decades of \service\ they have managed to show minimum levels of imagination. And as their bodies dry up, there is little reason to suspect that their minds will become suddenly liberated. A student who does not maintain a satisfactory level.of academic achievement is dismissed from schooL We need to flunk-out some of these administrators who cannot produce for the \new\ Union. ''Arts For By STEVE FOX aad JIM TALBERT With \Art for Art's Sake\ as a guiding philosophy Dan Mead, coordinatar and. chief .planner of events, and the Inter-Fraternity Council, his Sponsor, could not go wrong in their effort to create an annual arts festival at Union. The result, Fine Arts Weekend, succeeded through the fine efforts of its participants ranging from the girls with art from Bennington and Skidmore to our own diverse array of musicians who accompanied the proceedings. Though unavoidable, the biggest flaw in the Weekend was its lack of accreditation in the eyes of the various neighbor colleges and universities invited. With some doubt about the outcome of the Weekend itself, Mead could not help but expect that many co1leges migh~ not come: Ironically, all accepted tl~e ~nvitation 1 thoug}:l only Bennmgton, Skidmore, and Albany matenahzed. He nopes .JS that this .past weekend will demonstrate the positive welcome Union will give visitors next year. The Glee Club Concert Saturday night being poorly attended, turned out to be the best concert of the year. R. Vaughan Williams contrasting with severai early 17th Century composers, the Madrigal Singers, in the words of one knowledgeable party, \sang beautifully,\ whi·le the Glee Club \sang with. confidence and a high degree of accuracy.\ One hundred yards away, the Mountebanks put ()n the last of tbree performances of Ten Year's After the Party and Genet's difficult Deathwatch reviewed here last issue. Later that night came one of the most memorabte parts of the Weekend: The New Last City Ramblers- Mike Seeger, John Cohen, and Tracey Schwarz-are three of the finest folk mus!cians in Am~r!ca -to, day. It was a stroke of luck that they were available and Wllhng to play. As it turned out, there was no hearing enough. The Ramblers were magnificent. It was partly due to their skill with their material Black Power- Pttrt II The hypocrisy of Christian Proverb \Love Thy Enemy\ and the American Revolution were exposed at Part II .of the Black Power Symposium held in .Fiji lounge last night. . Invited by Fiji Theta Delta Chi and the Black Alllance,. Free- man,. Robinson of the. Schenectady Action Committee and Ralph Boyd of the loca1 NAACP delivered introductory speeches and then answered questions from the audience. Ralph Boyd labored on th~ division of the usual_ black m~ve­ ments of the past, while Robmson drew parallels m Amencan history. When the Negro slave arrived they were taught to \Love Thy Enemy\ but in the Ame:r:ican Revolution the colonists resorted to violence to over tlrnow the1r oppressors, The Negroes thus have tl!l'ned to Isla~ for gu~dance a!J.d may find in their path the use of VIolence t~ achteve r~cial equ¥tty. . Both when asked which was more Important, mtergrat~on as m equal housing, or economic .power, both agreed empath1cally on economic power. .. . . Present at the meeting were mosting FtJl bro~hers, wtth a. few scattered professors and members .of the Black Alliance and officers of the Schenectady Action Committee. The Union College Inter-Fraternity Council is currently spon- soring a work week ~t D~minion House .. Dominion House, loc~t.e~ at 401 Union Street, Is bemg renovated m order to house rehaoill· tated mental patients -returning to the community, Most of the wo:uk is in the form of· scraping off old wallpaper, plastering and repainting. Every fraternity has volunteered man- power for! this venture. Most of the pledges and a few upperclaSs· men worked at Domini~n H_ouse. this wee~end and w~rk will con- ~nue this week. The proJect IS bemg co-ordmated by Br:1an Crandell, :r)$esident of Sigma Chi. · Paint for the renovation has been donated by churches and loq~l charities and other materials are on loan. Many fraternities SUDP:lied their own brushes and rollers. · The project has receiv:ed much publicity both on television and in tll.~ Schenectady paper-s. ~ichard Amesbury, when asked to comment on the work being don~ ·~aid, \T}ii~· is a very w~rthwhile . venture. It is the smt of proJe(lt. fratermt1es need to be mvolved m.\ J Arts Sake'' and partly due to their stage presence. They held the audiences attention throughout, evoking laughter, hand-clapping, or quiet attention. For behind-the-scenes work leading to the success of the Week- end, Union's artist-in.residence deserves much of the credit both for the Union exhibits as well as much of the talent that came. Comparing Union's displays with those of the other colleges made it rapidly obvious that the coHege's artwork is not inferior. Some other places baast entire faculties while ours is a one-man opera- tion. \Without Bittleman,\ said one student-artist, \the talent here would probably .always have remained latent and never developed. But his enthusiasm, energy, interest in everything, constant avail- ibHity, and willingness to give -of himself makes the difference.\ W ell-kaown and respected in artistic circles, he a'lso helped through his connections with Rambler John Cohen and the 'Slddmore Arts Department, which assured their coming, Dan Mead hopes for an even better show next year, Jeining with the Lectures and Concerts Committee to ·procure speal,ers which will attract students interested in discussion of the phi:lo~ophy of arts as well as exhibiting their own work. If the Weekend were extended to a full seven days, the scope of the project could be expanded so that .corporations might be interested in sponsoring and getting publicity. With these and other ideas gleaned from this experimental weekend, Mead and a staff which included Dick Amesbury in charge of receptions and housing; Ross Fraser, pub- licity; .Jim Talbert, music; and Dave Patinos, tbe IFC hopes for a bigger, better show next year, with help in planning as well as participation from the near-by colleges. Circle K Counts On Coo·peration \As far as I can see, there isn't any effective service organiza- tion on campus, and it's about time Union had one,\ said Bill Dawson, President of the newly formed Circle K Club. The club, which according to Dawson has \contacts with over 100 businessmen in the community,\' has .planned several projects to be completed by the. end of this year. This afternoon ·the group planned to clean Hans Groots Kill, and the club is also seeking volunteers to work on the soon-to-open Halfway House, a project sponsored by Ellis hospital which is designed to help former mental patients prepare fol.\ re-entry into society. One other project the· Circle K is sponsoring is the starting ()f a used book catalogue for students who want to buy and sell their used textbooks~ Students wishing to place an ad in the catalogue for their used books should turn in the information at Student Activities, the Library, or Doug Meally, the editor of the catalogtie at 256 Fox. The next meeting of the Circle K is scheduled for 8 p.m. ne:xt Tuesday, in Hale House Lounge. All interested students are invited to attend the meeting, which will feature a speaker from Upward Bound. Blither The political forum is sponsoring a talk by Mr, David C. Hoeh, New Hampshire cam- pcign director for Eugene McCarthy·, on '\Anatomy of ·the ·New Hampshire Campaign: Student Power in Politics,\ to- be l!eld Wednesday, May 15, at 1,30 p.rn. in HU 115, It is open to all sludenls. Applications for College Social Chairman for next year are available from Mrs. Marra in Stodent Activities, They must· be relurne_d to her by next Tue>day. May 2ht. Thera will' bo o priina•y election for Ali-College Council student representatives at large tomorrow night. Voting will be held as u$ual. The entire studenl body, inc.luding freshmen ana .seniOrs, will. vote·. A second lottery for ·members -of lhe class af '69, who are interested in living <>ff. campus, will be held next week. Any current Junior, not on disciplinary probation, who did not sign up far the fiirst lottery, sl1ould contact Mr. Lucas· office by Friday afternoon, May I 7th, at· the latest. The Blanchfcrth oratorical Contest will be held on Tuesday. May 28. The contest is Jim ited to members of the c:lass of 1968, and invOlves the delivery of ·a $ix to ten minute speech on a topic; of the contestants' own choice. All interested seniors must inform Pro· fes5or Daniels, Political Science, of their intentions 'by Wednesday, Mcy 22. There will be a meeting of the Phiilomalhean Society on Tuosdoy, May 21. Eleclion• of officers for the school year '68-'69 will be held, The Linebacker Staff and any other interested students will rneet in West College Cafe· tria ct 8' 'P.m. on Wednesday ta evaluate the computer output. The following ore memben of the staff: Andy Ctissis; Andy Haskel; Tom Oberst', Paul Levinson; Jack Conly; lloyd Wolkenfleld; Bruce Shackleton; Steve Cole; Bill Pearlstein; Bob Michaels; Bob Saltsman; Jim Saltsman; Jim Stillman; Dennis Moffitt;. Tom Benedict; -Bill Boenike; Paul Constantine; Mcrk Polansky; Mark Curry: Ji\ Kadamus; end Dick Daniel. C d ,Jio. ,.. I),. ~ IF' _..d on.:or · 1ens1s · •n•na .... ut . ·t; Old Dutch Restaurant OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK A Touch -of Holland in Schenedddy~· Excellent ·food - Moderate Prices 10%·DISGOtrNlf FOR ALL UNIONSTUDENTS 1617 Union '.Sf., Ph'or.e:-- 37:4,.;5770 Gel\ishon!s:. Sandwiches' Cold, Cuts Scdads-. Open . Tues. ·-. Sulf •. 1 • I 8 A.M. to 9 P.M •. j_ Ph: EX 3-0611.160G~Union~s~ ;· DAR1:: TREET\ REST~URAMT. YOUR- CEI.GICE 'CHAR~BRO(L\' S1E-AK VEAL CUliLET CHIC~EN ... $1.50 20:<19' Von. Vranken Ave. Fit' 7~4261 Specializing· in ·Jtalitm·· Ameri<art· food~ Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking Dl 6-9554 I II S Barret.t St. l.et the lager freely .flow, Down to Louis'·, let us go, A uniq~e place to dine with old European Atmosphere NlCHOLAUS RESTAUR~N·T Since 1 895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blitd. l.arge parties aeeommodated in our RATHSK£1.1.£R For reservations phone FR 4-8917 DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Ro·oflJ · fine· food and Legal Beverages 11 8 • 120 JAY StREeT LUIGI'S RI\;:STAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian-. Ametiean Food· 1125 BARRET.T·ST~: Sch~neetl!idy 01 6-9744 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bor RlTZ R-EST AU RANT 1725. Van. Vraraken Avenue Featuring HOM& STYLE ITALIAN FOODS. STEAKS. CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Larga Parties Pizza & Sandwiches at All HCiurs Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open 'Daily, 11 A.M. to· 3 A.M. Serving Union For 34 ·Years SILVER DINER of~ .. Schenectady ERIE BOULEVARD 6 A.M. - 11 P.M. 346-9522 Excellent·· Food and Informal Atmo~phere Mama Bianchi's DIAMANTE'S . Fine Italian· & American Food Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Open Sunday : Special Tues. & Thurs: I i Spaghetti &.,Meatballs with , Salad and Coffee-$1.00 ! 1135<,Bari'ett:,·St. ! • ' t 1 Pri~ate '.Banquet Room ! Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott Street Open- Dailv 1 0 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to 1 A.M. \ Enjoy Our Fine Home I

Opinions Page3 Concordy Sports Free Press Pa.ge 1 Stickmen Slash Trinity, 11-5; Hobart Seen As Tough Host Trackmen look lo Future With Easy Win Sat. Ey LEN SIMON After subduing Trinity Sat- urday llc5, the lacrosse team has another chance at glory as they travel to Geneva to take on strong Hobart tomorrow. The stickmen are now 8-2, and can rightfully be considered un- derdogs tomorrow, and slight favorites Saturday, when they host RPI. Another fine performance by Lee Schneider, plus a swpris- mg comeback for Steve Ritter- bush told the story against the now 4-3 Bantams. Schneider scored four goals and assisted on two others, while Ritterbush, playing about fifteen minutes total playing time, got two geals and three assists. The Garnet romped to a 6-0 lead for the first period, and then seemed to rest on their laurels. Bob Seefried opened the scoring on a feed from Jehn Rockwell, and moments later Ritterbush took a pass from Schneider for a score. Schnei- der then got into the act on a pass from DuYal, and was fol- lowed elosely by an unassisted score by Jim Sabella. Schnei- der again assisted, this time hitting Tad Knight, and Duval closed out the first period scor- ing unassisted. Trinity scored three times in leonard men Fifth A hole-in-one by senior golfer Rieh Horsman was the one bright spot in an otherwise dis- appointing fifth place finish by the Union linksmen in the ICAC Tournament yesterday at AI· fred. Horsman scored his ace with a six iron on the 166 yard par three ninth hole on his way to a tie for medalist honors for the Garnet at 76 with Doug Vergith. John Hine and Ward Blum both scored 84's for a total of 320. Clarkson took team honors with a low total of 286 over the par 68 Wells- ville course. RPI, led by tour- nament medalist John Grant's two under 66, was second with a 295 total. St. Lawrence (303 l, host and defending champion Alfred (315), and Hobart (326) completed the field finishing third, fourth. and sixth respec- tively. Bantant JVet Ronrps In Saturday's ICAC tennis tournament, Union finished in a fourth place tie with Clark- son. Host RPI won the tourna- ment with 37 points. The Garnet's points were gained as Steve Karp won his opening round match and Jeff Kurzius drew a bye in the open- ing round and won his second round match. Karp went down to defeat in the second round and Kurzius was eliminated in the quarter finals. In Monday's away match at Trinity, the Garnet netmen were blanked 9-0. Jeff Kurzius was the only player to go be- yond two sets but was defeated in the third by his Trinity op- ponent. The team has its last oppor- tunity for a victory on Thursday with an away match at Bar- pur. '71 Lax Crushed The freshman lacrosse team took it on the chin hard Satur- day, dropping a 16-3 decision to Cortland. The frosh have their final test at RPI on Sat- urday. Wayne Christie got tw() of the Garnet scores, and Ken Lor- enze added the third. Pup Gould played a fine game on defense. . ~ . ~ Schenectady Printing Co., Inc. . 502 Broadway 377-8838 then scored unassisted, and fin- the second period, and held the Dutchmen scoreless, as they controlled the ball and pepper- ed the Garnet cage with shots. The halftime tally stood at 6-3. Schneider put Union back on the scoreboard with two goals in the third quarter, getting an assist from Ritterbush on one. The Bantams scored once in the third period, and the Gar- net led 8-4 with fifteen minutes to play. Trinity opened the fourth period scoring to bring the tally to 8-5, but then Union rattled off three consecutive goals to end the scoring. Ritterbush assisted Schneider on the first, ally assisted Ken Milne on the last score of the day. Hobart presently stands 6-3. They · have beaten Colgate (12-6), RPI (13-11), C. W. Post, RIT, Clarkson, and St. Law- rence. Their losses have been at the hands of Hofstra ( 12-5), Cornell (20-2) and Syracuse (16-4). They rely on a powerful attack, led by Mark Hanna and Frank Boyar. Defense is proba- bly their weak point, but their goalie, Rich Walden, is tough to beat. :By HENRY FEIN In place of the canceled ICAC championship, the Garnet track team hosted Albany State Sat- urday and won 9'1. %-53¥.!. The unofficial contest, in which frosh :tram !l:>oth sch.ools competed, in fact marked the debut of next spring's track squad. Editor's Corner: MW~'\'®ff.<mm%:1'llEtwMtim?mM;}.J.@b'WH.w..:m Carl' Thurn, who recently set the G-arnet SbO record, won both the 100 and 220 dashes Satur- day. Frosh Mario Fischetti and Joe Kirkup took second and th1rd spots in both events. Dave Gray, who had been running the dashes, took the 440 in 52.0. Frosh standout Terry McManus won the 880 in a fine 2.01.8, and finished second in the mile at 4:32.9. The Great Dames are especially strong in the distance events, and Larry Fredricks of State led a sweep of the two- mile with a 9.57.5 clocking. Freshman Joe Burgess finished fourth in 10:34.6. The Garnet won lloth hurdles; Milke Mich- alski took the highs in 17.4 with frosh Paul Elliot second, and Ron MeA voy won the inter- mediate in 62.0. The Garnet 440 relay, triumphed in 45.4, while the mile relay won in 3:33.3. Player of the Week Steve Ritterbush Two weeks ago the odds against Steve Ritterbush play- ing any more lacrosse at Union were quite severe. He had j1:1st broken his hand against Col- gate, and was supposedly out for the season. His cast made it impossible for him to handle a stick. Even a week later when he got another, less restrictive cast r,.ut on, most of his teammates, and his coach thought it un- likely that he would do any more playing. He suited up for the Cortland tilt, but saw no action. Saturday, however, he played just about one quarter of the total playing time, and for that short stirit, got two goals and three assists. His comeback could be key to the upcoming battles with Hobart and RPI. The Garnet did equally well in the field events. Freshman Bob :Berger concluded an un- beaten season with a 5'10\ high jump. Art McCabe took second in the long jump and won the (triple jump with a leap of 51'4%.\. Tom Oberst won the javelin, George Gardner led a Union sweep of the shot put, Ed Bl'echner took the discus, and frosh Scott Wager and Bill Dawson finished 1-2 in the pole vault. R ecru i ti ng: ,.,,,,,;,:· .. · ,,.,.,,.,.,,,.,,,.,.. .::.:;;<·:::o:·::\''''''''''*'\''''''''\'~\''\''''''''''\'''l*'l:'V'''''''\''''''''''''';''\'\\i'N''\'\'\'\\\\'''%\'·'''':··'f'''lltYtF8~jMBm!!'l~df.tt1W~!fli'ID.i~@~~@[~:i!!Hf The Never Ending Battle The general increase in the quality of Union College ath- letics can be seen as indicative of an increasingly vigorous re- cruiting eff..:>rt by the entire athletic staff. Recruiting expenses currently comprise one-twentieth of the entire athletic budget. Of the total recruiting budget, one-half goes to football and another one-quarter to basketball. Foot- ball recruiting began tentative- ly at Union under Joe Maras in the early 1960's and has been widened in scope by George Flood, who spend the majority of his winter visiting high schools in New England, New Jersey, and all of New York State. The greatest change in re- cruiting tactics in the past two seasons has been the increase in the area <Jf the minor sports -lacrosse, track, wrestling, and soccer. Coach Allison has in- creased his contacts in the Maryland area with the result being an increasing number of students coming to Union from Baltimore. The two new coaches, Ron Coleman and Gary Brown, have begun to intensify recruiting in their sports where such activity was previously lacking. The minor sports will proba- bly remain such in the area of recruiting, however, because the department feels that foot- ball and basketball must al- ways remain the most import- ant sports because of their greater publicity value. Foot- 1959MGA with 65 Engine Very Good Condition $750 Call JEFF CHRISTIANA 346-1264 ball and basketball recruiting also brings to Union many ath- letes who star in the minor .:-.ports. Most of the coaches who re- cruit use generally the same arguments in attempting to convince athletes to come to Union College. Union can pro- vide them with a fine educa- tion and at the same time we are a small school and most fine athletes can be guaranteed a starting position in their ma- jor sport. Coach Flood, how- ever, noted that in the case of football the increasing quality of material has made It Impos- sible to guarantee startmg po- sitions to all fine high school football stars who came to Un- ion. The coaches who do the most recruiting, Flood and Schmid find their greatest competitio~ with the Ivy League schedule, though 'both also named such schools as Syracuse and Roch- ester. We seem to have less competition with other ICAC teams because other than RPI, the ICAC schools accept a lower calibre of student. Union will usually lose out to Ivy League schools if a hoy is accepted there because of their greater reputation, and at the same time we are at a dis- advantage when competing against schools such as Syra- cuse who give athletic scholar- ships. Union only gives schol- arship money on the basis of need and even this money may ' . be broken. down into scholar- ship, loan, and grant. In the area of bringing more Negro athletes to U n i o n, the coaching staff is in general agreement that there must be a general committrnent at the highest level in terms of more scholarship money and tutoring, and a lowering of academic standards in certain cases be- fore the staff can recruit more Negro athletes. Besides an increase in schol- arship money, the two most im- portant elements needed to draw better athletes to Union is an increased athletic repu- tation and better athletic facili- ties. Union's name is currently not well enough known in many areas out a consistently better record in the major sports, which just may be the trend in the near future, would help to perpetuate s11ch records through drawing good athletes. The building of the new ath- letic facilities at the Fieldhouse will definitely help recruiting because the present Alumni Gym complex is grossly inade- quate. Announcement Tile Dutch Classic Bowling League wiD.l hold its annual ban- quet tc.night at 9 :00 at the Red Fox Restaurant on .Jay Stree.t . - Union Pharmacy 600 UNION STREET FREE DELIVERY COLOGNES & AFTERSHAVE LOTIONS Jade East - Engli3h Leatker - Brut Old Spice- Canoe- That Man British Sterling - Hawaiian Surf Jean Nate FR 4-3605 I ' Nine Skein Ends; Saints Prevail 4-2 The Garnet nine's hopes for an unbeaten season were scut• tled Saturday when .the 'Garnet fell to St. Lawrence 4.2. They try to get back on the winning path. in a game at Nmwich to- day and win travel to Middle- bury on Friday. The ,e:f.fect of the loss on the team's post sea- son tourney hopes is not known at the moment, but the nine is definitely still alive. Bats Stymied The Garnet wert> ·completely stymied by the Larr-ies' curve- baHing starter Ron .Hayden for six innings as they reached him for just three hits. Bill N eidel was effective thro11gh five in- nings but he was hit hard in both the sixth and se¥enth in- nings when St. Lawrence scor- ed their four runs. Bob Ha!- lenback bailed Neidel out of further trouble in the seventh and finished up effectively, The Garnet began t() reach Hayden in the seventh when Mike Magee tripled on to the track to open the inning. He was thrown eut at the plate later in the inning and though the Garnet loaded the bases they were un.able to score. Against a reliever in the eigb.th the Dutchmen. scored two runs after two were out. Ken Mer- chant started the rally with a single and Magee foUowed with. another. After a passed ball, Tom Miller's third hit of the day brought in the pair. Miller reached third on a stolen base and wild pitch before a second reliefer, the Larries' shortstop, got Jim Wilson on a fly to left. Last Gasp In the ninth Brien Gidlow reached first on an error and moved to second on Dave Hour- igan's single, but successive fly balls ended the threat and seal- ed the Garnet's first defeat of the year after eight victories. The Larries are now 8-5. Phi Ep, Psi U Softball Unbeaten By PETE HATHA.WAY In intramural softball, :Psi Up- silon and Phi Epsilon Pi con- tinued to roll toward theil' re- spective league championships. Phi Epsil<m Pi easily disposed of Theta Delta Chi 10-4, while Psi Upsilon put Delta Upsilon out of the race 12-5. Behind Psi Upsilon, Beta Theta Pi and Phi Sigma Delta are contesting for sec()nd place, both with only one loss. Phi Sigma Delta steamrolled Sigma Phi 24-4, while Beta '.fbeta Pi squeezed by tough Chi Psi 9-8 and squashed Kappa Alpha 14-1. In the other league, a three-way race for second is shaping up between Delta Phi, Delta Chi, and Phi Delta Theta. ln the CHARM LADY'S $39.75 loi\N'S 35 RENAISSANCE LADY'S $39.75 NAN'S 39.75 SMITHSON LAD~'S $35 loiAN'S 35 only recent action, Delta Chi beat Theta Delta Chi 7-4. All three of these teams also have only one loss. In the Independents Softball League, Team #1, led by Al Case and Jim \Butterroll\ Saw- yer, and Team #6, led by Keith Walter, remained unbeaten and tied for first place. The Intramural Outdoor Track Meet is scheduled for Tuesday and Wednesday, 21 and 22 May, at 4:30p.m. The events scheduled are 100 yard dash, 440 yard run, shot put, high jump, long jump, 220 yard dash, 120 yard low hurdles, and 880 yard relay. On the strength of their wide victoh in the indoor meet, Chi Psi looks to be the best team. TRISTAN LADY'S $39.75 MAN'S 35 CARWIN LADY'S $35 MAN'S 39,75 ELEGANT!! LADY'S $35 MAN'S 31S To Wear With Pride Always T..T -~DITIONAL k ® ~psa e Vv'EDD lNG RINGS The most beautiful symbols of your wedding day •.. perfectly· matched bands in 14 Karat gold. Carved, textuFecl. florentined, and two-toned de- signs by America's leading ring stylists. Each bears the Keepsake name in the ring and on th.6 tag. It·• Q'B enlnl'Rt>cl ~o 9how d'ntail. Trad~.l\fark Rl't. TIME CENTER JEWELERS - \ ·424 STATE STREET In v ·~---- vol. 97- Nil dialogue. Not that jll()rOUS abo Bllt most w1 reasons at .. Snow Whi1 parent the 'can illness, vement of confused P covered hi: ro men didn't were satisfi There w~ :system, ma: hear witho there seen with some< ;md that is rected. I g expected, f vicarious 1 Thursday now Whi Eut this i more and ' The Seen · has gotten · \just been 1 cheek. Thr IJewildered ha.ve happ~ ,talk of the it;r of it aJ fdend and it happene< him, tears 1 · qaiet, thin could help t our languaJ ha.s a dear1 t' ,, ple compa: window in1 sounds of react. ' \'Those couldn't tl: night?\ 12~ By ANTJ On cam] weeks has new Union the Arches got under f various mo Among i the possibi \lhich folic ,, '' I'OOd form .'J.e alumni: 'lll.derstand • 'llctions Wl 11tire affa \' artoon. T · 1as not a J · he campm In a rna lirecto r w ~ -lossibility ' dinema not ·ngs and th l()t be preE he use of The art fo ·1ess and lE ~ he many ~ 'Jroduction as many f vehicle wit The Aud Oil. campus that someo ;n the mid• tncensed a ural beaut: dassroom l :o the pre .'orced him :31) 1 little · hrary so th i.hat some

when to the He the pl:ate though bases to score. eigbth two runs Ken Mer- with a with ball, of the ir. Miller base a second shortstop, to left. Gidlow and ilour- essive fly and seal- defeat of victories. 8-5. Chi 7-4. All also have s Softball by AI Saw- by Keith and Outdoor for 21 and events dash, put, high yard and in the looks to d. e- RS In Memory Of Vincent Van Gogh vol. 97 -No. 30 Concordissentious Union~ Biggest Semi-Weekly Newspaper SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, FRIDAY, MAY 11:, 1968 Reading Concordiensis cau bl' Ilazardous to Your (Mental) Ileultlt. PRICE 15 CENTS Morality At Union? Millions For Horticulture Nihilism In A Vacuum . ,· By ALAN GIGGLER Union's insensitivity stood out re- cently at the showing of \Snow White the Seven Dwarfs\ Hke an erec- tion in a girls' gym shower. At the m o s t . touching point of the film, wb.ere Snow White is kissed 'by Prince Charming, the ejaculations of laughter '1·:1~1-'h.r .wn out the next ten lines of ') dialogue. Not that there wasn't anything hu- pl!>rous about the movie, there was. Bllt most were laughing for the wrong reasons at the wrong times. Behind .. Snow White's\ sexual facade was ap- parent the rotten core ef the Ameri· 'can illness, from the placid uninvol- vement of the Seven Dwarfs to the confused Prince Charming wh<> had covered his identity with a Brooks robe. But most of the Union men didn't look this far, for- they were satisfied with the sexual facade. There was trouble with the sound :system, making it difficult enough to hear without all the laug'1ing, but there seemed to be more t11ouble with some of the heads in attendance, ;md that is a problem less easily cor- rected. I guess it should have been exiJected, for how else does one get vicarious satisfaction on a lonely Thursday night except to g<> see now White\? :But this is just one example. There's more and its all related. Tears ... The Scene: A dorm, after the news has gotten around that a girl has · '*just been hugged and kissed on the · ch€ek. Three students sit upset and bewildered that such a thing could have happened here at Union. They ,talk of the brutality and the inhuman- ity- of it all. One thinks of his girl- fdend and how he would react if it happened to her. Tears ta 1k for him, tears he's unashamed of. All are · qaiet, thinking of some way- they could help the girl. Frustrated bEcause our language, so abundant in trh;ia, has a dearth of ways to express sim· t' ,, pie compassion. Through the open window intrude the raucous tribal sounds of a fraternity chant. You react. ' ••Those stupid fraternity people, couldn't they lay off for just one night?\ By ANTHONY LEGER-WOOD II On campus during the past two weeks has been the premiere of the new Union College Movie, \Through the Arches\. Before the final version · got under foot the trustees considered · various modes of expression. Among the ideas considered was the possibility of making a movie \lhich followed a well known Holly- J '' 1·ood formula thereby presenting to . 'le alumni something they could easily 'lll.derstand. At first Walt Disney pro- ' 'llctions was suggested to handle the 11tire affair making it an animated \ ' artoon. The trustees decided this · 1as not a practical idea as ~ni.rnating ·hE campus would be too difficult. In a more serious vein a French lirector was called in to discuss the -lossibility of making a nouveau vague dinema noted fol' its illusion to mean- . ngs and themes which could or could · l()t be present making points through he use of many types of exp~ession. The art form, because of its vague- '1ess and lack of direction, as well as ~ hE many gaps and inconsisten()ies in 'll\<Jduction was seriously considered as many felt this to be the perfect vehicle with which to describe Union. '£he Audobon Society arrived here Oil. campus and was distressed to ~ind that someone had put a college nght ;n the middle of a garden. They were tncensed about the spoiling the nat- ural beauty spot with a library and dassroom buildings and stormed over :o the presidents office where they .'orced him to order the planting of :3[)1 little bushes in front of the li- hrary so that visitors would. not think i.hat someone had permitted the \Maybe they den't lmow about it,\ replies one of the more tolerant. Then the fragmented sounds from outside, that had only been half lis- tened to before, solidly and ·pErmeate the consciousness of the three. And they realize thta the guys are chant- ing: \Hug and kiss, hug and kiss, hug and kiss ... \ Over and over in a savage litany to the Night. \That girl can probably hear that.\ Again, language is inadequate to express what you feel to these guys, but your pacifist tendancies are strain- ed . • . • And Laughter Then: Later, down in the lobby. You don't know exactly what happen- ed to the gll\l so you .ask a couple of guys if they know anything about the g1rls that was hugged and kissed. \A gir 1, hugged and kissEd? All right! All right!\ ''Hope a Union man did it.\ \Hey did you do it? All right! All right!\ \Finally some hot action here.\ You decide that your levels of thinking are as different as Billy Gra- ham's and the Marquis de Sade's and that there's nothing you could tell them, so you walk away from the verbal vomitting. Maybe a Union man didn't hug and kiss that girl, but man, most of them are probably only sqrry that they didn't get a chance to watch. So, why is it like this and what do we do? Get girls here quick. May• be then Union men will learn that the arms are on the girl, and not that incidentally there is a girl at- tached to the arms. And maybe they will learn that hugging is much better when it is part of a full relationship. And get rid of the goshdarn social rules. \Hug 'em and leave 'em\ and the idea that \hugging and holding hands is all that girls are good for\ are the philosophies that abound. Not Love The Time: 1:45 a.m. It is your third date with a girl You are in your room. You have just held hands for the first time. She feels ambi- valent and insecure and wants to hold on to you, talk to you. The alarm rings. You take her back to Skidmore and you both spend the night alone. buildings to take precedence over the landscaping. The gym department submitted its proposal for a Son of Hercules spec- tacular featuring a muscle man who wanders the campus fighting wrongs of various types and at the climax sees the fair Princess of Boolcs about to burned on a pyre of carefully pruned twigs and branches. The Go- liath :would then rush over, examine the situation and throw the princess into the fire. Something more of a family enter- tainment variety was s11ggested next. A production that all Union Alumni from 8 to 80 (thousand per year) could go to and enjoy. Soon \Mary Poppins at Union\ was sketched by several writers who had planned scenes showing lecturers reading notes to classes in slow, steady, pa- ternalistic tones accompanied by the music \A spoonful of sugar helps the medicine go down.\ Spy thrillers being popular a motion was made to hire a Smersh agent to come to Union and try to steal the secret plans for the futu:re of the campus. That way the new plans could be shown off and the alumni entertained by gun fights in Ja.cksons Gardens and Spiffy super-equipped au- tomobiles which can only be parked in designated areas. The big scene of the movie would be the Union hero destroying the intruder who is hiding in the Student Aid office by thrrowing a handgrenade, disguised as a tulip bulb through the window. Great films of the past were ex· amined. One of those considered was \Gone with the Wind\. After casting Not One Cent For Botany By WM. GOO Campu> controversey broke wide open as a major rift was reported ferming in the Union Maintenance staff as to whether begonias or tulips would be planted en campus next year. The decision has been delayed for several months as other schools moved towards lilacs and roses. A dean commented \we have a long tradition here at Union of begonias and tulips and we are not about to change-Union has been in the fore- front in this area and if we switch now it will have implications that go far beyond just plain flowers. The Student Council dis<'us~ed the issue last wPek and decided that anv decis;on made would surely be arbi- The Department of Cunning Lin- guistics announced today the discovery nf a rii'U' ?•nb-Tn shinnnqrll {pro- I!OUIWl'd reverently). This t•erb is ont· of subtle nuances in meaning. The depart- ment disclosed that although in general it mctcm to propose o1· :wpport, IS different inflections can be attributed to it. These are suggest, offer, stair, rt'· commend, implore, move, pontificate. dl\Tnand question, reconsider, compro- mise, re-thinl~. and u·ait. aside doubts that the title :would put Unions potential for growth in a bad light, the tough rugid approach be- came popular. Scenes were plotted out with the college president addressing the Budget conference, saying, \Frankly my dear, I don't give a damn.\ Within the same framework a dramatic confrontation between the Director of Admissions and the stu· dents and faculty where the Director would look out into the audience and say, \come with me to the Casbah,\ whereup()n in pied piper like manner the admissions department would lead a procession of disadvantaged from the slums. The Graduate, being so popular, was thought of as a possible avenue of approach. The Trustees, it appears, would be \a little worried about their future\ and have to face the chal- lenge of the biggest Mrs. Robinson of them all, the New York State Leg~ islature. But eventually Union would snatch the banner of private educa- tion from the jaws of demise and bring it by bus back here to Union. The idea was dropped because staging of the hotel room scenes proved im- possible when the manager of the Holiday Inn asked the entire State Senate to leave his hotel. The trustees gave up on that idea but not until they had viewed several variations of Shakespeares Plays, Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf and Mission - Impossible (which was dropped because no one could figure out how to get the humanities build· ing to self destruct in five seconds). trary and if the students have no voice in the decision it is invalid. According to one student leader-\if anyone is going to deflower the student body atcund here its going to be the student body itself.\ The ceuncil voted to form a committee to study the mater. .Meanwhile a group of campus ac- tivists announced the fer-mation of a Coalltwn for a Horticultural Voice and deplored the lack of horticulture on the Union campus stating there is no reason we cannot have begonias and tu'ips here. What do we have to spend 5 million dollars on a science center for? The facu 'ty decided to review the whllle i<:c;ue. Division 1 reported it- self in favor of roses, Division 2 came m tor n.mr.s w,th a small splinter group for snap dragons. Division three ~\lPd li 1es of the Valley while divisions four and five were heavily m tavor of cactus. D.vision six (phu- ( sor by) ,·oted unanimous'y that it did not ex:st. With the faculty so divided Pres:dent Martini stated that he felt \the hea'thy divergence of opinion was good for Union but I do not want the gardners or onlookers to feel th!s to be a sign of weakness.\ He assured them that \we will be stead- fast :n our drive for the loveliest planLn~s and ,,.e will travel to the ends of the earth to procure the nec- essary f owers.\ He continued \I will go anywhere at anytime to serve the cause of botany and I don't want the camrus to think that I will de\'ote an hcur or a minute of rry time to any other prob~ems until this great is~ue is settled. I will not seek and I will nf't \eceT't the endorserrent of the All College Council in regard to this h~ue. It should be decided in the highest trad:tions of diplomacy so th:Jt we 1~ ay have a noble and an hon- crrb'e garden.\ The Student Body President ex- pressed surprise at the presidents' :-taten.ent and added he wou~d bring up the issue at the next meeting of the All College Council. Before that grouo convened the IFC, which had tapped in earlier in the week, voted unanimously not for begonias or roses, but rather hops stating, \ask not :what the fraernity can do for Un- ion but rather what Union can do for for the fraternity.\ The Union Inter- residence Council, on its usual Thanks- giving recess, issued a statement saying that they wolud go along with whatever was decided in return for more liberal secial rules. The All College Cou-ncil met in a heated greenhouse and voted to cen- sure begonias but refused to sup- port roses. The Dean of the faculty said-\1t is about time that the ACC moved in to this area of vital student concern. We ought to establish guide- lines by which the plantings should be administered. The Director of Re- ligious Activities pointed out \as you sow so shaH ye reap.\ A picture of Luther Burbank dis- covered in a California attic was put on display in Schaeffer library in con- junction with the campus wide debate and suspension of classes. The por- trait was termed an outstanding con- tribution in the field of Californian portraits ()f Luther Burbank and will remain at Union for five years. Following the ACC meeting the Coalition for a Horticultural voice isued a statement attacking the ACC for not gettmg to the root or the issue. The suggested that the whole situa- tion be turned over to an All College Horticultural Committee having com- plete jurisdication over all plantings. They said \With all the landscaping being done on campus we ought to have a representative body to ad- minister it.\ The controversey continued as Tiny Tim flew in to support the student boycott and to the cheering throngs sang \Tip Toe Through the Tulips\. Tmy ind1cated he was in sympathy with student dissent but personally favored pansies. Following the perfor- mance the Dean of Students com- mented on what he called \the ex- cessive drinking of dandeline wine and said such concerts would be carefully policed in the future.\ Finally under a flag of truce the ivy which had sealed the doors to the administration building pulled back and a meeting of representatives of the ACC, ACHC, the Student Council, Faculty Council and the President was held. It was decided to resume classes as soon as possible and that the issue would be submitted to ar- bitration. The Presidents Committee on the Riots at Union condemned in its re- port, issued months later, the apparent lack of concern shown by the adminis- tration in believing the student body to be shiftless and unaware and said that the faculty in controlling future outbursts should strive for a minimum loss of students rather than trying to save the flowers. St. Michael Speaks, Or Golden Rule Revisited By SAUL OF ·HUBRIS Render unto humanities what is humanities and unto athletics what is athletics cried the plantive voice of the sandaled figure as he stood defiantly between the Id()l and the gym adressing a group of assembled students. As he spoke a voice !'rom the crowd murmured, \tis St. Mich- ael come from the east to deliver us from indolence.\ The speaker contin- ued, \Oh ye of little faith who are not Yalies yet desire pass-fail any- way I bring new words to lead you from dissipation. The rightful term is forty days and no nights filled with study and privation and a leader to lead you to achievement. I can as- sure you I will be ever vigilant and that in bril?'hest day or darkest night no evil shall escape my sight.\ 1\leanwhi!e on another part of the campus a r:· eeting of the elders was being held and they discussed the problem of the young preacher. An elder commented, he has said of frat- t'rnities that not one wall will be left stand:ng and that we should have new ways of judging men. He claims, the elder continued, that our present system is no good and that it should be more specific. Perhaps another elder suggested he has read too much Huxley? But St. Michael was contin- uing his sneech mentioning genuine measurement of achivement. Soon St. Michael encountered the elders in Jacksons gardens and they approached him with questions about his teachings to :which St. Michael Re- nlied - \Now it is too easy to get into heaven I want to raise the stand· ards and thus make paradise a better place. I feel that one moral crisis a year cal} be handled on a right- w~ong bas1s rather than by a com- ~ hca~ed system of values but only tf this one moral crises is outside the real~ of normal activity for the per- son myo!ved. I !llso believe that judge- ment ts a contmual exacting process- and that we should be more watch- ful of those we permit the pleasures of . sport. Now we reward men for domg only what they should be I :wo_Utd have reward hard to attain 'by bemg more demanding in evaluating The Elders asked St. Michael if hi~ proposals . w~~e not indeed radical and he said they are modest propo- sa!s designed to initiate a process of change\. Upon hearing these words the elders became frightened and dared not question the young prop- het fu~her to find out what he might proclaim about other topics but alas 1t was too late and he spoke \I would ,not granteth tenure to the un- deservmg because of age or title\ and then the elders became indignant and decla!ed-He has blasphemed. Th1s blasphemy led to his end as he was delivered to the elders be- trayed by the AUP which he thought t~ be his friends. The Elders lashed h1m to the top of N ott memorial where he stayed for three days and ~hen mysteriously disappeared. There Is some rumor that in the dark cor- ners of some faculty council meetings a shadow can be se\:n to be stirring. The experts called m described the whole ~ituation, however, merely as a functiOn of the Droppler effect.

2 ··Letters to the Editor Pu!JlJsht\d Tul•s<..la~·s a·wl lt\'ridays dur- ing the \''hool year by the Student Body of L'nion College, Schenectady, N. Y. !\ationul Advcrtit:ilng Ih:vre~en­ tutive: ~tttiunal Bdw.·ational Adver- tising Set·vh:e Inc.. 3GO Lexington Ave. :-.:.Y.C. l·:rllloriul Office. Drun· ntr House, l'ntun Cul!L•gt.-'. PuLIIL'Ution Uffi<'e, Sd1enectudy Printing Com- pany, 502 Droatlwuy, E:nteretl in the ~dlt:Ilt'cludy Post Offke u::~ ::it..~c:unU ' Class ~luil. SuLr:n:l'iiJtiun l,jc a t:Ul'Y· $:1 a year Ueliven~·d nnywht>re in tl'~ l'nllell Stutt>~. ISEl'i 101~ BOARIJ Hl<'ll.\ltll I·: l'A'i\''i·:nso:-; Jn. ·~o ........ 346-8Gl4 .. J;d.,ur·uH.:tlie• . Thanks To the Editor: D. PE1'ER DHOTl\lAN '69 ............. , .... , ...... 372-9730 ................. Business lllanage, . · As we prepare to leave Union College ana ;:,cnenecta~y, we be· come ever more consc1ous of tne debt we owe the lJmon commumty. 1t has ,been our prlV· :11ege to wor.K Wlth students, tac- uny, and aamm1strauon aurmg a 1ascmatmg and. Important per- Iod ot Its mstory. '!~hat these years have been pleasant and productive Its attnbutable to all of you, and we hepe that this note o! thanks will express how aeeply we have appreciated your rnenashlp and help. :-.:ElL ~. KHA~!EH •;u ........................ 346-8Gl4.. ........................ )!unagmg l!:dltOI JI::l•'l•' Bitow:-;B '69..... ...... .. .... 316-VU~J ... .. :-.:el\s Ed1tu. GA!tY I'HW;'OST '69 . .. .................. 393-7841.. ...................... Spurts Edito1 STEVE FOX '70 -- ......... 346-3019 .......................... Features Edito• 1\'iLLL\~·l t>l'i':i·:H '71 .. i~~u·· EdL.u. 1-'.\l''l. .\XI>IU·~\\'~ '-i 1 _ .\:--~.~taut ls:-;ut~ l·~lli'tm· Back To Black With news that the one Black student who had plan- ned to come to Union has decided to go elsewhere, Union's class of 1972 promises to be lily-white. Instead of taking her place in the forefront of those dynamic, vital colleges whose commitment to their students and their society is clearly demonstrated, Union will continue for at least another year as the leader of those colleges who remain outside th€ mainstream of progressive American education. lf these remar.Ks nave a com- mencement rmg, it is entirely appropnate, not only because that time ·of year approaches, but also because it has been four years smce we first came to Unton. Our best wishes ac- company you, and we smcerely hope that Hartford is near enough the main routes to merit a v1s1t. Once again, many thanks to all. Cordially, Theodore D. Lockwood and Family Campaign The purpose of a university is more than just to train the engineers or the doctors or artists that society needs, it is also (and equally importantly) to help shape and im- prove the society through the university's graduates. Union's commitment to do her part to heal society's ills through concentrated help for the disadvantaged, pri- marily Black, student must never be in question. We do well to discuss and consider the implications of such a pro- gram so that when instituted it will be a wise and beneficial one, but the discussion must never be allowed to ask if we are committed; only how and how much. The \how much'' is another deep question the college must ask. A substantial commitment to help the disadvantaged student will not only reap the obvious rewards for the students involved and for society, it will also do as much or more for Union as any winning sports team, Comp. Ed. program, or famous faculty member. Recruiting of qualified (to say nothing of disadvan- taged) Black students has suffered throughout the history of the college. Now that a new emphasis is being put on such activity, the Admissions Department still shows few signs of being able to adapt itself to the new environment and assumptions under which it must act from now on. We must have more Black students. The Admissions Department doesn't discriminate, but neither does it expend any great effort to recruit Black students. It is time to give a more than equal opportunity to Black students to enter Union. We can not begin to make up for the evils of 350 years (and the negligence of Union) by merely offering equal opportunity. Union must actively and agrressively recruit and give every advantage to Black students as candidates for admission to Union. The present Admissions Department has cl€arly shown its inabihty and incompetence with regard to this cause in the past. So entrenched is it in Union·s bureaucracy that tne administration feels no need to change and respond to new ideas. This is nothing less then bu.reauc:ratk intransig- ence. VVe hope that this situation will change quickly, and that the Admissions Department will move to the forefront in the collegewide commitment to the disadvantaged stu- dent. Yet since the present Admissions Department offers little reason for hope, its present staff from the top to bottom may soon have to go. A Fine Exantple Concordiensis is pleased to learn of the appointment of Edward Molloy as Dean of Students. We heartily wel- come him to the college community. At the same time we are genuinely saddened at the loss from that office of Charles S. Olton. As Dean of Students, Olton has set an example that his successor would do well to follow. 1 am a canu1uate tor the of- fice 01 V!Ce-l'restdent ot the >:>tudem Council ana would nlte w maKe 1mown my Ideas of 'the uut.es and respons1b111t1es or tne lJOSitwn. Events 01 1.ne past 1ew months, m part1cu. 1r ·me r~.rts WeeKend, the gooa stud em r~sponses w the demonstration }Jrotestmg changes m the grau- mg system, tne lectures and sympo:s.ums sponsored by sev- tra! 1rawrmties and the rorrna- t.on ot the Independents' move· nrent by t'aui VlVlan, all llldl- cate tnat lJ mon students are movmg m the directwn ot .1;;1 eateL· )Jarticipahon m their tllV•l onn.ent. !'lOW IS the ume rur tile :::.tuaent Council w taKe charge vr th1s new mterest and (;nannel 1t so that students ha> e more say m matters concermng tnetr lLUr year stay at unwn. ! reel tnat 1t IS me restJomu- bhltY or the Muctent CouncH ana 1ts ofl1Cers to discover ·~.ne 1 ~actwns on the part ot ·~.ne ::;tuaem body to such Issues as we new grau~ng system, the matm: .. nan~c progran1, SOC1a1 uours, ana che Colllprehens.\\ ~ClUt:aL.un progran.. .1he coun- crl ShOUld then act t.O SO.H~ the !JIOJJ,ems presented by tnE.se 1:..su~s. ~s \'Ice-President of the Council •t wuul<.l be my respon- S!bl!Ity tu work w1th tne Presi- dent ana the committee heads 111 oraer to r..aKe Ideas Into rt:a.tt>ed. '1·ne Vtce-PresiC1em: or the Councu 1s a1so a men1oer Lll the >:>tudent ·rax Committee and m that capac1ty 1 wou,d str1ve to brmg about a mo1e t:.qu.table distribution of tne stuaent Lax money. In my van- ous capacltles on WRUC m the past tll1ee years I have become \ery tamiliar with 'Lhe problems faced by a student actiVIty and th1s awareness I feel will ma.Kc we better qualified to under- stand the 1mancia1 neeas of campus orgamzatwns. 1 tee1 tnat another reason that 1 am better qua!Jfied tor the position than my opponem 1s my rather unique Situatwn m regard to fratermty aHrlla- t1on. During my treshman and sophorr.ore years I was an in- dependent and during lOhat time became very conscious of the pro b.en:s taced by uidepend- ents. This year, however, I am a soc1a1 brother in the Alpha Delta Ph1 1raternity and have l>een able to see the problems faced by fraternities a1so. [n conclusion let me say that I favor a liberalization of the social rules, a change in the maintenance system, a re-ex- amination of the comprehensive education program and a great- er student voice in Academic matters. I am well aware of the time and responsibility re- quired of the Vice-Presidency and am willing to perform the job to the best of my ability. James B. Stillman, Jr. '69 Write-In Open Letter to the Student Body We feel that the Student Council is and can continue to be an effective initiator of pol- icy and action on this campus. In mder for the Council to de- velop up to its poten.tial, how- e\er it n.ust have a fr:>rceful and knowledgeable President. We were disappointed with the outcome of the Student Council nominating cau:.us and there- fore urge the Student Body to write-in the name of Rusty Man- ker for President of the Student Body. We believe that Rusty is the best qualified to be Student Body President. Elected Vice- President of the Student Body in January, he has also served the col:ege as Social Chairman this year. His work in both positions has brought him into close contact with the adminis- tration and facu:ty, experience which enables him to better perceive the whole cam.[Jus sit- uation, which is an essential quatity for the President to have. As Vice-President he has served on the Tax Committee expt;rit;nce which has given hino{ an mt1mate knowledge of the financial aspect of student gov- ernment. We. urge the Student Body to wnte-111 the name of Rusty Manker next Tuesday, to be Student Body President on the basis of his experieHc~, inter- est, and demonstrated willing- ness to work. Richard Amesbury '68 Grady Aronstamm '68 William Boehmke '70 Robert Burwick '70 Ross Fraser '70 Robert Kinlian '69 James Rubenstein '68 James Stillman '69 Benjamin Volinski '68 Stephen Werlin '69 Craig Youner '69 Continue To the Editor: In his letter- to the editor of May 14:, Professor Shinagel sug- gests that his \primary purpose !n introducing the 12-point grad- !n_g system proposal was to in· Itlate a process of change in the academic climate at Union College.\ This seems to imply that Union has been lax about self-criticism an d self-analysis and that the climate has not been changing. It should be pointed out that for the last several years the college has been vigorously ex- ploring significant ways to im- prove curriculum and environ- ment, and there are already a numb~r of key student-faculty committees. Extensive critical study has been and is being made of such curricular matters as Comprehensive Education (a different committee is working on the programs of each of the four years), departmental ma- jor ~equiremen~s. (to encourage maximum flexibility), elective patterns, etc. Additional recom- mendations have been made to study the physical education re- quirement, the language require· ment and ROTC. Further recom- mendations relating to the Col· lege environment are being ac· tively considered. These include the building of a college center the improvement of present din: ing facilities, the appointment of a full-time Director of Stu- dent Affairs and Activities the educational role of fraternities and the coordination of activ: ities pertaining to student study abroad. It seems clear that the con- tinuation of the organized and ~omprehensive studies now go- mg on can better serve to im- prove the physical, social and intellectual environment at Union than focusing on single isolated suggestions such as the \modest proposal\ associated with the \12-point grading sys- tem\. K. L. Schick To the Editor: Olton has been more than just a dormitory regulator and rule enforcer. He has involved himself as an initiator and mover in all areas of student life. His fresh approach and enthusiasm have brought a life and breadth to .that office too long missing. Always concerned about students, Olton has been in his short tenure, an outstanding Dean. For the finest in cameras and stereo fidelity featuring Nikon, Hasselblad, Leica, AR Speakers, We thank Dean Olton for the time and energy he gave students while on leave for his chosen profession as pro· fessor of history. We hope he will find fulfillment as he re- turns to that challenge. 1957 Foster Ave. Sony Recorders FR 2-4446 Low Dough For the benefit of the edi ficatitm of the administration, I would li:ke to present the fol\ lowing fable. I went home for the weekend on ApriL ~ti. WhHe 1 was tnere, ~ VISJ.tect my tr-1end John, a sen- Ior m lirgn ;:,chool. He and 1 have been goods fnends for many years m sp1te o:t the fact that he IS a school year behmd me. John had applied to l.,1mon College and, two weeks ago, he was notified that he had been accepted as a membe:r of the Class of '72. Unlike me, John comes from a lower-middle class family, yet he ranks twenty- seventh in a class of 1,213 stu- dents. He needs financial aid in order to attend Union Col- lege, but I assured him that with his grades he need not worry. John flew back with me on Sunday night. On lVlonday, he VISited my classes. He was very impressed by the Social f:icience classrooms With waH-to-wall car- peting. The idea of a unified campus also agreed with him. But the sight that amazed him most was the construction of the Library Plaza. \Wow that will be some- thing!\ he exclaimed. \How much will the construction of it cost?\ \About $85,000,\ I answered. He was still dazzled by its beauty. John went horne Mon- day night, astonished by the aesthetic qualities of Union Col- lege. Last night I received a phone call. It was John. He l:Jad just been informed that \because of the liiDitation of available funds, Union College would not be able to grant him a scholarship for the academic year 1968-1969.\ He had been accepted at Cor· nell and they had given him a $2,000 scholarship, so he said he would matriculate there. John was disappointed that he would not attend Union, but he told me that he would like to come up and see the plaza when it is completed. The pre~eding was but a mere fable, but it has not been an uncommon occurrence. The of- fice of Student Aid must be commended for its sincere at- tempts to improve the situation (notably the Capital Fund Drive), yet it is often stymied by the lack of support, both fi. nancial and moral. Mr. Bingham reports that though no one who sought financial assistance was denied some form of aid, the college could not meet the full needs of 128 out of the incom- ing class of 441 students. Sincerely Anthony J. Beninati '71 Michael F. Spencer '71 Running To the Editor: As most of you know by the influx of campaign leaflets in your boxes, elections have once again come to Union. The platforms and ideas presented by the candidates are hasicary similar. All the candidates have played so-called \active roles\ in the abolition of convocation Schenectady Printing Co., Inc. 502 Broadway THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeats from all over the world. 406 STATE ST. Friday, May 17, 1968 Friday, M requirements, in the protest against the new grading sys- tem, in the discussion involving the formation of the All College Academic Council, and most im- i!Jortant of all, are \active members\ in the Student's Coal- ition for an Academic Voice. You have been hearing a whole lot ,of \I am,\ \I have been\ and \1! was.\ The question you should be asking yourselves is how important have these \I au, ~s·' been in bringing about the changes which Union so vitally ·needed; and more im portant, what other changes do the candidates env,ision for the future ... I am a candidate for Student Council Secretary. Since qualifications seem to be of ma- jor significance, l will state mine as briefly as possible. I have .been a Student Council Representative for the past two years. I initiated the Council's proposal protesting the new grading system, and tried to folLow through by meeting with faculty members in an attempt to voice student opinion. Dur- ing the protest, I presented the students' views to the Faculty Cou,ndl. The results of this .conference are clear. It is cer- tain that the new grading sys- tem will be tabled until student opinion can be properly evalu- ated through the formation of the AH CoHege Academic Coun- ciL As chairman of the Student CouncE Constitutional Commit- tee, I know all too well the severe limitations restricting [ the Student Council as well as , the All conege counciL when ·r one knows one's limitations one can more easily abolish them or work around them. ' 1 A lot of good things have been done in the past few months, but many mere changes are. nec~ssary. Student partici- pation In cam}:ug affairs must not stop with the revision of the new grading system. I urge you to support me for Student Council Secretary. Daniel Z. At onzon '69 Distortion I have been reading news· papers long enough to know that the t~uth ,neve~ really cat· ches up With distortiOns or lies. Nevertheless, I cannot forbear from taking violent exception to the statements made about me by A. Russell Jacobs in the ConC!ordiensis of May 10. :rvrr. Jacobs is either misin- !ormed or is deliberately distort- mg the truth when he states that [ told a student last fall that no changes could be made in grades which allegedly had been incorrectly recorded as the result of a quirk of the com- puter. No such incident occur- red. What makes the story par- ticularly ridiculous is the fact that there is a procedure for changing grades-a fact which Mr. Jacobs, had he not been more concerned with making a point then telling the truth could have confirmed by a cali to the Registrar or to the Dean of. t:be College. If students are gomg ~o dema;fid a greater share In policy-making at Union and <lther college!), I would suggest that they recognize also the need for a sense of responsi- bility and this includes a con- cern for the truth. Sincerely yours, Martin Lichterman FERRO PHARMACY 575 Nott Street Schenectady, N. Y. FR 7-0510 FOUNTAIN SERVICE One block from Brownell Gate l. G. BALFOUR CO. CARL SORENSEN BADGES • RINGS - fAVORS JEWELRY lEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS ClUB PINS - KEYS MEDALS - TROPHIES Write or Call fratemity Jewelers 7:29 Soutli Crouse ·Ave. Syracuse, N.Y. 13210 Fa Pl~ The F~ meeting ' pone the posed 12 the winte voted in Jent-facul dde the .he stude1 c Both m ;enting vc the Dean postponin .rrading S' ~ouncil li entire ye, system cc The me faculty C( tion of a matters c motion to the prese include a pected th point the next wee1 At agE yesterday that the l Board of By I Union 1 for Sprin the Youn and the I The forrr for an al day night and willl by a fou Pinkerton up the ti Chapel a1 Sound been ren1 set up un Selec Chan1 . The ne· granting c may pre: who are in terms A colle quired tc board th a 2-S cla pursuing. The new slated to bet, 1968 suing\ a: • must earl required If at the dent has % ofthe he may bE 2-S. Registr; out the courses (' and the g: that faih would me 14 of his ation tha: summer s which rna explored who are i The ne1 potential which ad1 under a sr academic or 6 year students might rec the Select. College c eration f< such a n istrar Sch that the c able to w culties pr, tions.

17, 1968 Friday, May 17, 1968 3 the protest grading sys- involving e All College and most im- are \active Coal- Voice. ring a whole been\ and you is, these \I nging abeut Union so more im changes do for the for Since to be of rna- will state possible. I ent Council past two he Council's the new tried to with an attempt inion. Dur- the the Faculty of this It is cer- sys. student perly evalu- 1 of Coun- the Student Commit- well the [. restricting as well as , When ·r one them, I have past few ore changes partici- must revision of I urge for Student Aronzon '69 • ding news- to know really cat- or lies. forbear to about me in the 10. misin- tely distort- he states last fall be made had as the f the com- occur- story par- is the fact for fact which not been making a the truth, by a call o the Dean are eater share Union and suggest also the responsi- des a con- yours, N.Y. CO. fAVORS EYS HIES e ·Ave. 13210 Faculty To Postpone Pluses And Minuses Edward Malloy Is Nam,ed Dean Of Students; The Faculty CouncH voted at its meeting Tuesday afternoon to post- pone the implementation of the pro- posed 12 point grading system untH the winter term next year and also voted in favor of establishing a stu- Jent-faculty council committee to de- dde the best means ·Of establishing .he student voice in academic matters. sult the facuHy concerning a state- ment on individual freedom on cam- pus. The main planks of the state- ment assert that there shall be free- <f:om of individual movement and traf- fi.c on campus and that freedom of discourse on campus shall be upheld. The statement carried the faculty in an infermal vote. Director Of Admissions At Stony Brook, Will Assume New Position In September Carried Unanimously Both motions carried without a dis- ;enting vote. C. W. Huntley, Dean of the Dean College, said he felt that by postponing implementation of the new ~rading system until next winter the ~ouncil had really ldlied it for' the entire year. He did not feel such a system could be started in mid-year. Expand ACC The motion to establish a student- faculty committee to study the ques- tion of a student voice in academic matters came as an amendment to a motion to expand the jurisdiction of the present All CoUege Council to include academic matters. It is ex- pected that PresJdent Martin wil:l ap. point the proposed study committee next week. Trustee Statement At a general faculty meeting held yesterday afternoon, it was announced that the Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees has voted to con- No action on the proposed All Col- lege Academic Council was taken at the faculty meeting due to the decision of the facuity council on Tuesday. Election Rules Elections for Editor-in-chief of Concordiensis will take place at a general staff meeting at the edi- torial offices in Bronner House at 8 P.M., Thursday night May 23. All staff members who are eligible to vote must be present at the editorial offices to cast their bal- lot. No proxies or phone call votes . will be allowed. Voting will close at 10 P.M. after which time no votes will be accepted. The results of the election will be announced in the final issue of the term on May 24. Edward J. Molloy, director of ad· missions at the State University ef New York at Stony Brook, will be· come Dean of Students at Union on Sept. 1, President Harold Martin an- nounced Thursday. lVloHoy was ae- scribed as \an extremely able and energetic man who is sensitive to what goes on in the minds of students\ by Acting Dean Charles Olton. Mo'Hoy replaces 0. Edward P0llock who lett Umon on December 7 to 'become Vice President for Student Persqnnel Services at Monmouth Col- lege, :M;onmouth, N.J. Between Pol- lG!!k's departure and Molloy's arrival, Olton, assistant professor of history, has served as Acting Dean. Molloy, 47, did his undergraduate work at Columbia and received an M.A. in guidance and student per- sonnel administration from Teachers College of Columbia University in 1961. He has been Director of Admis- sions at Stony Brook since 1962, dur- ing which time the freshman class was increased from 383 to 1343. Prior to his tenure at Stony Brook, Molloy served as assistant to the dean and director of Kings Crown activities at Columbia. At the time he left Columbia, he was directing all non-ath'letic extra- curricular activities and the student union, as well as serving as chairman of the Inter-Fraternity Council. Founded at Union College zn 1877 Butterfield To Swing On Saturday ~Y LLOYD \YOLKENFELD . stantine, should be far superior to Hopwod, folk guitarist, and Father Umon College Is braced and wned past systems. The door at the north- .James Corr playing Irish banjo music for Spring Weekend 1968, featuring east corner of the Field House will starting at 10 PM Saturday evening: the Young Rascals, the Left Banke, open at 7:30 for the 1700 blue stu- Tickets are still available for the and the Paul Butterfield Blues Band. dent tickets sold for Friday, and doors Paul Butterfield appearance His The former two groups will appear will open for 3260 townspeople at 7:45. group has been described by ·Ralph for an already sold out concert Fri- No programs will be given out Fri- Gleason of the San Francisco Chron- day ni~ht at 8 PM in the Field House, da;v ni~ht, but t.he Satur.day programs icle as having an exciting shouting and w1ll be protected, as per contract, w 1ll mclude mformatwn about all style that roars electronically with a b~ a four foot snow f~nce ~md_ 29 groups to p~event issuing progralr!s.to sou~d that COI}leS on like· a couple Pmkertons. Paul Butterfreld w11l Light students twice, and to keep pubhc1ty of Jets but swings and swings hard up the tiers and pews of Memorial away from the Saturday performance, with conviction and spirit. ' Chapel at 8:30 Saturday. which is not being sold off campus. Of Butterfield himself, critic Glea- Sound equipment for Friday has Other events this weekend include son write, \What is interesting about been rented from out of town and, a lacrosse game against RPI on Daley (the group's first album) is that a set up under the charge of Paul Con- Field at 2 PM Saturday, and the young white Chicagoan can play the movie The Strange Ones in Social blues this well. It is as if a Negro Selective Service Changes 2-S Basis The new draft laws concerning the granting of a 2-S (student deferment) may present problems to students who are not \up\ with their class in terms of credit earned. A college or university is still re- quired to certiify to a local draft board that the student requesting a 2-S classification is \satisfactorily pursuing a full course ·Of instruction.\ The new draft regulations, however, slated to go into effect in Septem- ber, 1968 define \satisfactorily pur- suing\ as meaning that a student 1 must earn one-fourth of the credits required for graduation each year. If at the end of any year the stu- dent has not earned either ~, Y2 or % of the credits required to graduate he may be subject to revocation of Ids 2-S. Science 016 at 7 and 9 Friday. The sharecropper from Mississippi were North End will feature Mr. David suddenly to be expert in Gaelic song. Weekend Party Slate FRATERNITY ALPHA DELTA PHI BETA THETA PI CHI PSI DELTA CHI DELTA PHI DELTA UPSILON KAPPA ALPHA PHI DELTA THETA PHI EPSILON PI PHI GAMMA DELTA PHI SIGMA DELTA PHI SIGMA KAPPA PSI UPSILON SIGMA CHI SIGMA PHI THETA DELTA CHI FRIDAY Fraternity men only Closed No party Couples only No party Couples only Open Closed None Open Closed Fraternity men only Brother only None Fraternity men only Closed SATURDAY Brothers only Open Fraternity men only Couples only Open Couples only Open Fraternity men only Couples only Open Open Closed Brothers only Fraternity men only Fraternity men only Fraternity men with dates only Olton said that Molloy has experi- ence in two fields which will be very beneficial to Union. Molloy is con- cerned with bringing disadvantaged students to college, a task which he feels is a moral obligation. He has also done much work in }llanning student unions and will be able to help Union's committee which is writ- ing a program for the proposed col- lege center. Olton said that both of these qualities will make Molloy a very valuable member of the college community. Molloy was picked from 40 candi- dates who have been interviewed in the past weeks. Five men were brought to the campus. Ten students were chosen to interview four of these candidates, and each student submitted a written opinion. Molloy was the overwhelming clloice of the students. Olton said that Molloy stood out above the other candidates and that the administra- tion was most gratified when he ac- cepted the position. Molloy is a member of the Associa- tion of College Admissions Counsel- ors and is New York State represen- tative to the national committee. He is also a member of the Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admis- sions Officers and is regional repre·· sentative of the Association of Col· lege Unions. A U.S. Naval Reserve officer dur- ing World War II, he served as a PT boat officer and later as ~om-t. mander of an LST. He is married and the father of two children. Rundell Presents Ideas And Proposals By BILL OUZER eluding a reduction in mandatory at- tendances. In a Concordiensis interview, Ed- gar Rundell '71, candidate for Student Council President, enumerated and explained his proposals for next year's student go\oernment. Rundell said he believes that the Student Council was becoming an in- tegral force in the campus decision making apparatus, adding that next year will be a crucial one in securing its position and firmly establishing the mechanism for permanent dia- logue between students faculty and administration. Speaking on the new grading sys- tem, he said that he felt the student reaction to be indicative of the new concern which has taken hold on campus within the past year. He endorses the proposed All College Academic Council by advocating that the student-faculty group examine the possibility of one pass-fail a year for a course taken cutside the center of the students major, and the credit system with an eye toward giving credit for certain courses in relation to their difficulty in an attempt to eliminate so called \gut courses.\ Rundell commented on the social rules saying that he felt they should be eliminated. As an immediate ob- jective he proposed working toward the extension of weekday hours to midnight. Further he expressed the opinion that the maintenance system Rhould be reviewed perhaps leading to an overhaul of its requirements in- About the mechanics of Student Government itself, the candidate sug. gested the use of referendums and rolling to keep the Student Council in tcurh with student opinion. He stressed the importance that the Student Council officers, particularly the President, should feel a real and Cl>mpel!ing obU~ation to the campus comrr.unity. 'The sense of responsi- bility, he continued, is a significant factor in determining whether student government can work at the peak of its Potential. A Student Council member for the past year, Rundell emphasized the importance of officer~ having a genuine committment. When asked about the social week end program, the candidate replied that he fe't an expansion of the pro- .f!ram invo:ving a refocusing of atten- tion on the entertainrr.ent and auxil- iary events such as lacrosse or football games should be looked into. He added that a careful assessment of student feeling in this area should be made. Rundell said he planned to cam- paign on a person to person basis visiting fraterities and dormitories. The candidate, who aspires to assume the office as a sophomore said he did not feel this to be a m~ior issue He said that he feels himself familiar with the working of the system hav- ing served specifically on the council committee which worked on convoca- tion revision. He stressed that he had been in the government framework Registrar Calvin Schmidt pointed out the inadvisibility of dropping courses (without substitution others) and the greater danger to the student that failures now present. Either would mean a student would not earn 14 of his credits required for gradu- ation that year, unless he went to summer school. This is a possibility which may, Schmidt said, have to be explored more f.larefully by students who are behind in amassing credits. Group Proposes Two ACAC's during ~his las~ year of change, which, he contmued, IS one of the most im- portant in the last several years as seen in retrospect. The new regulations also present a potential nrob 1 em to the college which admits disadvantaged students under a special program with a lighter academic load. However, a special 5 or 6 year pro~tram for disadvantaged students established by the College might receive official recognition by the Selective Service System. Also, the College can ask for special consid- eration for students where it feels such a request is appropriate. Reg- istrar Schmidt said he is \optimistic\ that the college and students will be able to work out any potential diffi- culties presented by the new regula- tions. By ALLEN GARTNER This plan further states that all ACAC proposals would be immedi· Two proposals for the formation ately published in Concordiensis and of an All College Academic Council that the council would have full in- composed of students. and faculty vestigatory po'wers and the right to were submitted to Concordiensis by organi~~ towQ-house meeting or in- the Coalition For An Acad~fl1ic Voice.. 1-. itiate a ~udent referendum. This plan this week. 1 ;;- assumes that the faculty acts in the The first plan proposes.:'! that the·· best interests of the college commun- . council be a recommendatory body ity and therefore will be receptive advising the faculty of student opin- to student opinion. ion. Composed of five students, one from Humanities, Social Sciences, The second proposal calls for both Natural Sciences, and Engineering an ACAC that would be recommen- each, and the Vice-P~sident of the datory but whose chairman would sit student body plus four faculty mem- on all faculty council meetings and hers , _ one from each division; the whose student members would sit on council would hold open meetings all regular faculty meetings. The AC- once a week considering both student AC would be composed of 17 mem- and faculty proposals. Decisions, made bers: seven students appointed by the by a roll call vote. would be forward- Student Council, seven faculty, the ed to the proper faculty organization. Deans of Divisions I and II, and the President of the College. The council would make recommendations to the General Faculty and to the Faculty Council. ~ The duties of the All College Cowl:-..,.. cil would be expanded so that it could make decisions on broad academic affairs such as grading systems, Comp. Ed., and the creation of new majors. Two fac.ulty and two students from the ACAC would be members of the All College Council. The President of the Colle~e or the general factilty, by a vote of 2/3 would be able to veto any decisions made by the ACC that related to academic affairs. According to the proposal. \. . . in this manner the students obtain a major, but by no means equal, voice in the affairs of Union College . . .\ Pike And Gordon Elected To ACC Neal Gordon and Ray Pike were elected. as Representatives at-Large to the All-College Council by the vote of an estimated one-third of the stu- dent body last night. Gordon topped the viting with 383 ballots, followed by Pike with 327 votes. Defeated in last night's run,off were Steve Werlin who polled 201 votes and Kenneth Merz who received 197 votes. Students were asked to vote for their first two choices. On Wednesday night Howard Blank, James Wilson, Ed Blechner, and Abby Stillman were eliminated from the race in a primary.

4 Friday, May 17, 1968 LETTERS Goldstein Outlines Platfortn; Competent To the Editor: Charges have been made that I do not have the necessary ex- perience to hold the office of Student Council President. At face Yalue these charges are correct. l have neither held nor sought a position on the Student Council in the last two years. The only experience I have is that of a Resident Advisor, a job which requires considerable lmowledge of campus affairs, althou~h not an elected posi- tion. If anything, I consider mv status an \outsider'' to be an asset rather than a liability. It has been those of us \out- side\ the Council who gathered in :£ront of the Social Science Building last week to protest the proposed new grading sys- tem, while the majority of those \i Bside'\ the Council vot- ed in opposition to a proposed student strike protesting the new grading system. The fact is that the Student Council was uninformed of this new grading change and was taken by sur- prise as much as the student body. The Council thus did not fu.Jf!ll its obligation to make and keep themselves informed. It is for this reason that I strongly endorse the creation of an All College Academic Council. I find it unfortunate that the Student Council this year did not see fit for its creation ear- lier. It should be noted that no action was taken this year on a change in the social rules. Al- though the elimination for re- quired convocations eventually rnet with success the problem of maintenance still rests with committees. It is unfortunate that the Student Councl did not take the initiative as the Inter- fraternity Council did in spon- soring an Arts Weekend. I hope that, together with the IFC, and the newly formed In· dependent Movement, the Stud- ent Council can sponsor similar activities. Those of us \outside\ the Council have heard all the plati- tudes of student awareness and student power before. Too often an idea for a faster and better way to do things has fallen on the deaf ears of those \inside\ the decision-making apparatus. For those of us currently \outside\' the Council, it is all too obvious that Council has failed to lead. Mark N. Goldstein '69 Harmony To the Editor: As a candidate for the office of Student Body President, I would like to outline some of my objectives for the coming year. The question of vital import- ance this year is, I strongly feel, harmony. Dialogue can break down at any level-be- tween the student body as a whole and the student govern- ment as well as between the student government and the faculty and administration. The issue of the proposed marking system aroused a great deal of student feeling. The faculty has now withdrawn its new system for the period of one year. P.opefully, meaningful discussion can take place be- tween students and faculty dur- ing this time. If elected, I pro- r;ose that a student referendum be held on the proposed mark- ing system and that the final decision lie with the outcome of this vote. The marking system is the issue which aroused this student feeling, but other questions will have to be discussed if the student-faculty dialogue is to be meaningful. Other issues, &Uch as pass-fail and Comp. Ed., should be debated by the pro· posed ACAC in the coming ac- ademic year. As far as other issues are concerned, I feel that parietals have no place at Union. The abolition of such rules is a long term objective, For the coming year, I favor an exten- sion of hours until at least 12 midnight on weekdays. This year, I served on a Student Council committee which exam- ined the physical education maintenance program. A ran- dom student opinion survey was taken., and the students fa. \'Or overwhelmingly a reduction in the requirement. The Stud- ent Council was this year suc- cessful in getting the convoca- tion requirement dropped for the coming year. This election has generated much interest on campus. The student body, I feel, will base its decision on an objective ex- amination of the candidates and the issues. By nomin.ating me to run, the Student Council did express some confidence in me. If a candidate is elected Student Body President and he fails to implement these and similar ob- jectives, there will, and right· fully should be, severe repercus- sions on this campus. Ed Rundell '71 Beacon To the Editor: As demonstrated by the stud- ent reaction to the proposed change in the grading system, Union College is in a state of awakening from its history of quiet unconcern and apathy. In one voice, students are demand· ing the opportunity to confront the problems of the college and the community_ In the light of this awakening, I am seeking the position of Secretary of the Student Coun- cil. The duties of the Secre- tary are to keep the minutes of the Student Council meet- ings and to maintain all cor- respondence pertaining to the student body. Yet, the most important responsibility of the Secretary of the Student Coun- cil is to inform the college community of the actions of their student government so that they can take an active part in campus affairs. In my three years at Union, I have tried to take an active role in campus life. Last year, I was parliamentarian of the Student Council and this year I was a representative to the council. I am Union College's representative to the Intercom- munity College Council which is a council of the seven col· leges in the tri-city area and whose purpose is to co-ordinate functions on the various cam- puses. I am a member of Pres- ident Martin's student-faculty Middle States Evaluation Com- mittee on Students and Student Achievement. I am chairman of the Student Council\s Cam- pus Affairs Committee, and fin- ally I am an active member of the Student Coalition for an Academic Voice. I hope that my past record will serve as some indication as to my desire that Union College maintain its goal of campus excellence. In this light, I request your support for attaining the position of Secretary of the Student Coun- ciL Alvin Levi '69 Eugene To the Editor: I am writing to you in the hope that you will communicate my appreciation to the students COLLEGE ST'UDEHTS SUMMER JOBS We invite you to investigate the highest paying jobs in the country today. Guaranteed income eam $1,000 - $2,500. with American Foresight. No previous experience necessary. Must have a car and live within Albany, Brooklyn, Queens, Westchester County and Long Island. Interview at 4:30 P.M. Friday and 1 0:30 A.M. Saturday at Sheridan Motor Hotel, 300 Broadway, Room 2- lower level, Albany, New York. c~or~o~raac~~~~~s for their A.dvances Detailed Candidacy Net only because my candi· dacy was favored in the ballot· ing am I grateful. More sig- nificant than the success or the losses of individual c&ndidates in CHOICE 68 is the participa- tion by ene million students on some 1200 campuses in the political process. Student opin- ions, debated and expressed democratically, will influence elections throughout om· na- tion. CHOICE 68 opm10ns on mili· tary · action, bombing and the urban situation have been for· warded to me. I note that 55.4 percent of my student support- ers favor a reduction of mili- tary actien in Vietnam and 29.1 percent are for withdrawal. Among students for me, 51.2 percent woutd stop the bomb· ing and 28.4 percent prefer temporary suspension. I can assure you I shall keep these views in mind as I try to de- velop intelligent responses to changing international relations. The emphasis of students for McCarthy on education and job training in our urban reconcili- ation efforts is reassuring to me in a very personal way. Let us remain together and I am confident that our common cause can change the direction of our country. With best wishes, Eugene J. J.UcCarthy Allen Feted· Neil W. Allen, former chair- man of Center I, and professor of history, received the John Bigelow Professorship in His- tory from President Ha:rold C. Martin Wednesday night. Dr. Allen then delivered a lecture entitled \Law as His- tory,\ to a gathering of faculty, trustees and students. Dr. Al- len explained how law and its development have and might extend man's understanding of trends in history. As the judiciary records of France have thrown light on its economy, so could the files of town halls in American cities indicate the characteristics of the Negroes plight. He conclud- ed by emphasizing that programs should be introduced at the undergraduate level which con- cern the history of law and legal systerr.s to draw a more comprehensive picture of law for the student. Bigelow, after whom the award is named, was a minister to France, politician and novice law historian. He also helped to establish the New York Pub- lic Library. Professor Allen is a graduate of Bowdoin College and earned his doctorate at Harvard. He was a!so instrumental in the documentation of the Washing. ton Letters. By PA.UL ANDREWS 'l'h.e imminence of the voting deadHne for Student Council President has resulted in a ac- tive campaigning and more de- tailed outlinmg of platforms by the candidates_ Much of the debate has up until now been hampered by generalizations and' vague promises character- listie .of almost any political platform. Upon viewing the platform. of i\fark Goldstein, however, one is impressed by a virtual lack of nebu~ous OV(lrgeneralizations and: ambiguous statements. It is ·Obvious that he has given much thought and consider-a· tion to his platform and :his cand3dacy on the whole, and it is obvious that he wants change-only he has taken the effort to explicitly define wh.at kinds of change he advocates. G{)ldstein's campaign centers amund the idea ·Of increased initiative in the Student Cotln- cil. It took a Coalition for an Academic Voice to manifest student concern over the 12- point grading system; some caiJd]dates have even advocat- ed t:be formation of a perman- ent \coalition\ to represent student concern on certain is- sues. Goldstein, however, ar- gues that \the Student Council sh(m]d actually be the coa.Ii- tion!' ••You shouldn't have to form coalitions to express student coiJcern,\ he says. \That is the purpose of the Student Cotln- cil.\ A-ROUND TQW,N J SCHENECTADY State Theatre: \A Minute to Fray and a Second to Die,\ ••That Man George.'\ PrCJctor's Theatre: \The Profes- sionals,\ \How to Save Your Marriage and Ruin Your Life.\ Aeroclrl()me: J. J. and the Night Watchmen; The Bugaloo. Colony Theatre: \Yours Mine and Ours_\ Scotia Art Theatre: \Bedazzled.\ ALBANY Hellman's Theatre: \Guess Who's Coming to Dinner.\ SARA. TOGA Caffee Lena: Jean Redpath. Scottish Singer. D'An-d.-eas: Sour Hcur. 4:::0-6 p.m., Fridas. Rip Van Dam: Happy Hour, {}-3 p.m., Friday. TROY Tri-City Drive•ln: \Valley of the Dolls_\ FOR SALt: WEBCOR VISCOIJNT 3-IU TAPE RECORDER Has own Amp + 2 4\ Speakers, 4 Track Mono Record and Playback features: Tope Counter, Edit Switch, Record Level Meter, External Speaker and Ami> Jocks_ MUST SELL $59 CALL OR CO~TACT MARK POLANSKY 346-9735 Phi Sigma KappCI 'For three Generations.' Those Who Know Have been recommending HERSHEL MAURICE B· WALTER 11 '3 Union Graduates ill Graubart Family'• 166JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AHD GOOD JEWELRY Goldstein also believes that the Council is \not as repre- sentative of the student body as it could conceivab:y he.\ He feels that ,the Ccuncil cc u · d represent t:he ideas and pro· posa~s of tlre various ·camrus living units-from independents in dormitories to fratern~ties­ on a more active and forceful basis. Council merr,hers shou d take the initiative to recru~t new ideas and opinions on new proposals from their crJnstitu- eBCY so that the Council itse:f could be aware of student opin- ion and reflect it in its voting, Increased Council initiative is another concept basis to Gold- stein's platform. He praised the IFC for taking on the re- sponsibility of introducing an Arts Weekend to Union but said he feels that it \is unfortunate that the Stadent Council didn't take the initiative on the mat- ter.\' The Council should ~fso be a leader in initiating and endorsing new movements on campus such· as the current Independents Movement. \I don't. know who else js going to do it if tlle Ccuncil doesn't,\ he points out, \after a'll, leadc:-· ship is supposed to be the pri· mary· functicm of the Council.\ Central to the concept of a more· representati\Ve Council would be the formati()n ·Of an All College Academic Council as a unit of the Council itself. With regard to the ACAC, Goldstein foresees its primary function as .providing a means for greater :faculty-student com· munication on academic mat· ters. Besides the problems of the new grading system, ACAC consideratiOl1S wou'd inc:ude a \reevaluation of the Compre· hensive · · Education from the standpoint of class size and cur- riculum.\ The Linebacker would play a prim~ry role here, Gold- stein notes, by acting as a \source of censtant reevaluation of new cot1rses and new pro- posals on tll.e academic curricu- lum.'\ Recently, however, the stud- ent body has shown signs of lifting itself out of its rut with· out the assistance of its recog- nized representatives. Thus, \outsiders as Goldstein calls them, were responsible for in- itiating student action on the gradin~ system where the Coun- cil did not. Interested \out- s'ders\ were responsible for mo· ti.vating the Council to endorse the Teach-In and take action on the Convecation system. And the growing amount of interest- ed \outsiders\ is reflected in the arr:ount of participation in the blood driYe and the number of peo.ple running for recent Council and ACC Representa- tive positiens. Goldstein is an \outsider\ and will readily admit it. \I have not served on the Council be- fore, but I feel this is an asset rather than a liability,\ he says. Goldstein feels that his exten- sive experience as a Resident Advisor gives him insight into campus affairs and student opinion. As a West College RA he has encouraged several freshmen-among them Class of '71 Vice-President Jim Kada- mus and International Students Organizing Chairman Elefther- ios Pavlides to seek extra cur- ricular involvement in campus affairs. In seeking the Presidency of the Student Council Goldstein is trying for the epitome of in- volvement in campus affairs. Although he announced his candidacy at a relatively late date, Goldstein was the first candidate to actively hit the campaign trail, and many of his ideas have subsequently been adopted by other candi- dates. But in initiating a wide variety of original ideas and unique proposals Goldstein has proven his leadership and will- ingness to take the first step- and his election would provide the first step toward what Goldstein believes wou~d be a substantial upgrading in the in- volvement of and interaction be- tween the students of Union with their major voice, the Student Council. Ba1 Mi] By () Folilowir inning vic' day, the C final wee! season se~ tor.ies and regionais. to Middle! to RPI fo morrow. Trailing the bottor day, Tom tory from sounding Hallenbacl the GarnE victory wi giving up striking o innings tl almost col Gerry Mi'' talce an e of the f01 single, th< the ninth, Magee fro Sh( That IE however,~ a triple a1 run in the They pick the sevent fice, an E ball. In the 1 Netm( Frosh By The var pleted a Thursday match at made the j only to J were not In WE match, thE toa4-4t Winning i ! tion for t Ahern, Da Liu. Only were play< thon singl sire of A to their c: of the ( Union wa: and Schw; The fn maining n on Saturd lings now Recr Wl Tuesd This articl Georg several fi1 Cyboron f by Flood to Union. [\{orris of is also a , County pi Coach was succe pulled a : Schenecta1 man was : ped a fim Other Linton Hi York City achusetts. him with pects to d Coach pound Bil Island gr2 is especia pound Tor and shot 1 Coach done at Ul year. Hea1 Catsoras o of Bay Sh the best C of Rockvil

17, 1968 • ' for in- on the the Coun- ested \out- ible for mo- to endorse action And of interest- in in number for recent Representa- and \I have Council be- is an asset y,\ he says. his exten- a Resident into student College RA several Class of Jim Kada- Students Elefther- extra cur- in campus of Goldstein of in- affairs. his late the first hit the many of candi- a wide ideas and has p and will- first step- provide what be a in the in- eraction be- Union with Student 1 I I I I I I I I 28. all I I I I I I Concordy Sports Batsinen Squeak By Nor~i~ch; Miller's Twro-Run Clout Key By GARY PREVOST FoUowing a thrilling ninth inning victory at Norwich Tues- day, the Garnet nine enter the final weekend of the regular season seeking three more vic- tories and a bid to the NCAA regionals. The iDutchmen travel to Middlebury today, and then to RPI for a doubleheader to- morrow. off the inning with a single but was thrown out attempting to steai second. After Merchant flied out, Magee worked a walk on a f1:11l count to set up Mil- ler's heroics, a 340 foot line drive over the fence in left. It is believed that Long Is- land University is the front- runner for the bid to the NCAA regionals from District II, of which Union is a part. LIU completed its season with a 22- 2 mark, and won the ;Metropoli- tan League title. If LIU gains the District II bid, the Garnet would have to be chosen as the at-large team in the tourney. Such is not beyond the realm of possibility, however:, d'ue to the Garnet's victory in theregionals in 1965. Trailing 2-1 with two outs in the bottom of the ninth Tues- day, Tom Miller snatched vic- tory from defeat with a re- sounding two run homer. Bob Hallenback went the route for the Garnet, notching his fifth victory without a defeat, while giving up only three hits and striking out seven. For eight innings the nine was stopped almost cold by Norwich starter Gerry MHne. The Garnet did talce an early lead in the top of the fourth on Tom Miller's single, the only safety before the ninth, which scored Mike Magee from second. Allisonmen Host RPI Y.omorrow; Nine ·Plays Doubleheader In Troy Short-Lived Lead That lead was short-lived, however, as the Cadets parlayed a triple and a wild pitch for a run in the bottom of the fourth. They picked up another run in the seventh on a walk, a sacri- fice, an error, and a ground ball. In the ninth, Ken Pearce led Netmen Splashed~ Frosh Tie State By MIKE REGER The varsity tennis team com- pleted a winless season on Thursday with a rained-out match at Harpur. The team made the journey to Binghamton only to find that the courts were not playable. In Wednesday's freshman match, the frosh netters played to a 4-4 tie with Albany State. Winning in the singles competi- ! tion for the Garnet were Ray Ahern, Dave Schwank, and Jack Liu. Only two doubles matches were played because of a mara- thon singles match and the de- sire of Albany State to return to their campus. Capturing one of the doubles contests for Union was the team of Ahearn and Schwank. The freshman have one re- maining match with Siena away on Saturday. The Garnet year- lings now stand at 2-2-1. The Union-RPI rivalry is re- newed tomorrow as the Garnet and the Engineers clash in la- crosse and baseball. The stick- men clash on Daley Field at 2:30 while the batsmen meet on RPI's Seventeenth Street field at 1:00 for a doubleheader. The first game of the twinbill wiH be nine innings while the night- cap will be seven. The Engineer stickmen are currently sporting a 7-4 season's mark, having defeated five teams that the Garnet also de- feated (St. Lawrence 14-4, Clarkson 14-3, Stevens 10-5, Al- fred 20-5, and Hamilton 11-5) plus two others, Siena and Hart- wick. Three of the Engineer's losses have come at the hands of teams which also subdued the Garnet (Syracuse 15-2, Ho- bart 13-11, and Cortland 8-5). The fourth loss represents the only deviation between the two records. The Engineers fell 5-4 to a Middlebury team the Gar- net defeated. 7-4. Led by Lennox The Engineers are led in scor- ing by attackman Art Lennox and midfielder John Baker. The RPI attack would have to be considered the strong part of their game while their middies and defense play, like the Gar- net's, has been inconsistent. The· defense was largely inexperi- enced at the beginning of the year but have progressed. The goalie, a sophomore, has also been improving. The Engineers will be fairly healthy for the encounter with only one starter, an attackman, definitely out of action. The comparative scores and player evaluations point toward a close game, but the Garnet have recently tended to dominate the series. In the last two seasons, RPI has gone into Who's Conting Next? Tuesday's article discussed the How's and Why's of recruiting. This article will show the results of this year's program. George Flood, the most active recruiter has come up with several fine prospects. The list is headed by 5'11, 215 pound Ken Cyboron from Chicopee, Mass. This guard-linebacker was terll).ed by Flood as the best prospective lineman he has helped to brmg to Union. Close behind Cyboron are two Lon~ Island boy~, Gary lV£orris of John Kennedy and Ed Young of Mrneola. Morris, who is also a wrestler is a 6-0, 195 pound lineman and an all Nassau County pick. Young is a 200 pound center. Coach Schmid concentrated on approximately ten players a~d was succeeful in bringing about half of them to Union. Schmid pulled a recruiting coup when he convinced Bishop Gibbons of Schenectady star Jim Tedisco to come to Union. The 5-8 backcourt man was sought heavily by Syracuse and Holy Cross after he cap- ped a fine high school career with a 55-point effort. High on List Others high on Schmid's list were Gary and Howie DeLuca of Linton High, Schenectady, both 6-0, 6-2 Rich Goldberg of New York City, and Rich Davis and Rich McLoed both 6-1 from M~ss­ achusetts. Schmide lost a 6·8 Massachusetts boy to U .. Mass h;:avmg him with a short crop of hoop stars. Because of th1s Schnud ex- pects to develop a quick, good shooting club. Coach Coleman has a fine group of wrestlers including 180 pound Bill Simpson of Seneca Falls and two 130 pound Long Island grapplers - Steve Rothmann and Harvey Billik. Coleman is especially high on a group of track stars including 6-2, 200 pound Tom Stallings of Barrington, R.I., a hurdler, jayelin thrower, and shot putter, and Bryant Moeckel, a 9:45 two miler. Coach Gary Brown did the first active soccer recruiting ever done at Union and is pleased with the group coming to Union next year. Heading the list is a boy whom he didn't recruit, George Catsoras of Athens, Greece. Another front lineman is Art Fraser of Bay Shore. Heading the list of halfbacks is Mark Beeler from the best Capital District soccer team, Guilderland. Larry Mullman of Rockville Center heads the list of fullbacks. the contest as the favorite, and come out the loser both times. In 1966 the Dutchmen ~:uined a p e r f e c t season for the Engi- neers. The general feeling is that Union should, and will, de- feat RPI in sports such as la- crosse and football. There is an urgency about these contests that can make the difference in a tight game. The RPI nine has an 8\5 rec- ord which includes victories over six teams that the Garnet also conquered (Hamilton, Ro- chester, Williams, Hobart, Drew, and Stevens.) The Troymen have been defeated by Hart- ford, St. Lawrence, Syracuse, Middlebury and Albany State. RPI is a hard-hitting team led by second baseman Dave Schopp, catcher Chip Lee, and shortstop Jack Hart. The Engi- neers will probably throw right- banders Watson and McKay in the doubleheader. 'Inconsistent pitching and defense have been the Engineer's main problems. With Bill Neidel starting against Middlebury today, Bob Hallenback and Joe Douglas will face the Engineers. Linksmen Edged; Hine Shoots 74 By JOHN DENEFitiO Union's linksmen dropped a pivotal match to undefeated Middlebury 4-3 at the Vermont school Tuesday. Victory slipped away on a three putted 17th by Jeff Smith and a ten foot birdie putt by his opponent on the 18th with a two iron. The putting with a two iron resulted from a burst of temper by Middlebury's sixth man on 13th bole and the shattering of his putter. Senior John Hine lead Union with a score of 74 and a 5-::1 victorwy while Rich Critchlow ( 77) and Mike Eisner (80) won their matches 5-3 and 4,2. Eisner won his first match having worked his way up to a starting posi- tion by successful challenges from the 13th position on the team. Rich Horsman's 77 along with Doug Vergith (79), Ward Blum (77) and Jeff Smith (80) complete the scores for the Gar- net. In the golfers up-coming meet with Albany State, coach Bob Leonard has decided to play senior John Hine in the num- ber one position feeling the Gar- net veteran has earned a chance to the play the position in this closing match. Announcement There will be a meeting for all soccer candidates on Tues- day, May 21, at 1:00 P.M. in Coach Brown's office. 1959MGA with 65 Engine Very Good Condition $750 Call JEFF CHRISTIANA 346-1264 Garnet Sailors Shown Compet- ing in the 30-foot Shields Sloop that yielded two second place finishes. Sail.ors Score Seco.nd Place At Maritime The U n i o n College Sailing Team placed second last week- end in the New York Maritime Regatta. The team, composed of Bob Gill, Bill Pattison, and Don Woodworth, captured three sec- onds, on() third, and two fifth places in the six races contested oy nme coueges. The competi- tion wa:s in ::::0-foot Sh1elds Sloops. New York Maritime, the host team, pla.ced first with 44 points, while Union had 43. Next came King's Point with 41. Other teams competing were Colum- bia, Princeton, Lehigh, Webb, Hobart, and Southampton. The weather conditions for the entire weekend were gen- erally overcast, with light winds ranging from 5 to 15 miles per- hour. B()th days also included periods of drizzle. Union was third after the first day's com- petition, but moved past King's Point in the tight standings to capture the runner-up spot. Bill Pattison has announced that sailors wishing to use the boats at the Mohawk R i v e r boathouse can gain maintenance credit on Monday, Tuesday, and Thursday. Pattisc.n also announced that the Corinthians, an organization which pr-omotes sailing, can be contacted for the purpose of gaining positions for ocean rac- ing and cruising yachts during the summer. Anyone interested should wntact Pattison at 372- 0172. SCHEDULE Scoreboard and Schedule Today's Games Baseball: Union at Middlebury Golf: A.lhany State at Union Tomorrow Lacrosse: RPI at Union 2:30 Daley Field Union (F) at RPI Baseball: Union at RPI (2 games) 1:00 Hallenback (5-U) and Douglas Cl·O) vs: Watson (2-2) and McKay (2·1). Track: N.Y.S. Championships at He1milton Tennis~ Union (F) at Siena 424 State Street Laxmen Fall To Statesmen, 12-11 By LEN SIMON Wednesday the lacrosse team outscored, outhustled, outhit, and outthought a fine Hobart team for nearly 59 minutes. Then, in the last one minute and five seconds, they saw an H-9 lead trans- form into a 12-11 loss. The loss keeps the Hobart lacrosse jinx alive, as we have not beaten them since 1942. The Garnet now stand at 8-3, and close out their campaign with the traditional RPI battle, to be held at 2:30 on Daley Field tomorrow. The stickmen played possibly their finest game of the season up to the last .flurry of scores. Larry Gillette and. Kevin Monahan did tremendous jobs on leading scorers Mike Hanna and Frank Boyar. Bruce WeStby had his best game to date with six goals. Lee Schneider played his typically fine game, with a goal and four assists. Faceoff-men Ken Milne, Tad Knight, and Rich Swan con- trolled more than half of the faceoffs, which were quite numerous. Ken Auerback played his third consecutive fine game in the nets, and could not be .faulted on most of the Hobart scores. Westby opened the scoring after only two minutes had gone by, and Ron Wall added another score only 30 seconds later. Boyar countered to make the score 2-1, only to have Knight give the Garnet another two goal advantage. Hanna brought the tally to 3-2, but Westby brought the first period scoring to a close, and it stood at 4·2. Schneider went to work early in the second period, as the Dutchmen raced to a 7-2 lead He assisted Westby and Duval, and then scored himself, unassisted. After Hobart had scored once more, Steve Ritterbush scored on a man-up situation. Once more Westby ended the period scoring, with a goal with only 22 seconds re- maining to give the Garnet a 9-4 margin. Union had been successful in the first half by keeping the ball at one end of the field, but could not sustain this throughout the contest. The Hobart attack saw a lot more action in the third period, and outscored the visitors 4-1, to close to 10-8. After Westby brought the count to 11-8, and Hobart returned the favor some three minutes later, no one scored for six minutes as the Union lead of 11-9 was looldng more and more secure. Finally, Hobart clicked on a fast break and trailed by only one goal with 1:05 remaining. Union nearly controlled the ensuing faceoff, but after committing themselves to the offensive end of the field, lost possession and were beaten down the field again for another score, which tied the contest with. only 35 seconds to go. An overtime looked likely, but Hobart outdid themselves by again gaining possession in their defensive half of the field and outrunning the Garnet for the winning tally. Blither Grant in aid sheets are due in the Office of Student Aid on Friday May 31 instead of June 7 as previously announced. Pay- day for the period will be Fri- day, June 7. The N.D.E.A. Institute for Ad- vanced Study in History at Union College needs the serv- ices of a summertime grant-in- aid. Part-time h o u r s for the position would be arranged, the pay will be $250. Interested stu- dents should contact Prof. Jonas in SS 213. TLlVL~ ron! CHANGE The Circle K Club is compil- catalogue which they will pub· lish next fall. Any student wishing to have an entry in the catalogue is asked to turn in the following information: 1) title and author of each book; 2) the name and number of the courses the books are from; 3) asking price; and 4) the seller's name, future ad- dress, and phone number. Information should be turn- ed in at the library or the Stu- dent Activities Office as soon as possible. With S!>·--·~ up:m us, the proprietor's suits are styled with an eye to lightness and comfort and a healthy respect for the demands of warm weather wear. They are now off~red in vigorous array, of which a sampling is shown. from $)55 I to 826 STATE ST. - Ph. 377-3061

6 Friday, May 17, 1'968 ~~Never let your studies interfere with your education.'' -Anurica.n col/eye motto l'iJ:r·a 18!10. FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDULE ! THIRD TERM- 19·67~68 I Conflicts in examinations should be reported tCJ Mrs. DeGroff· in the Office of the Registrar not later than Friday, May 31, 1968. Examinations will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code of the buildings to be used. BA.-Biology Annex BU-Butterfield Hall CH-Carnegie Hall EE-Electrical Engineering Bldg. GL-Geology Laboratory HH-IIoadley House HU-Bumanities Building OC-Old Chapel PL-Physics Laboratol'Y PY-Psychology Laboratory SS-Social Sciences Bldg. Harvey History 69 (Historiography)-in SS 115-Prof. Bristol Political Science 29 (International Relations)-in SS 112;-: Prof. Gati Sociology 42 (The Politics of Society)-in SS OlQ___,;Prof. Willison Geology 11 (Historical Geology)-ill GL 24--Prof. Park Mathematics 12 (Calculus 111)- Sec. 1 - in .EE 22 - Mr. Lindstrom Sec. 2 - in EE 22 - Mrs. Corman Mathematics 42 (Vector Analysis and Complex Variables)'- Sec. 1 - in CH 111 - ~rr. Behan Sec. 2- in CH 201 - Prof. Gillette Physics 12 {Quantum Effects and FundamEntals of ModErn Physics)- Secs. 1,3,6,7,8-in BU 201- Prof. Jones and Mr. Schubert Sees. 2,4,5-in PL 202- Prof. Pilcher and Mr. Hooverman MONDAY, JUNE 10 ~:00-4:00 P.M. Clasics 31 {The Koran)-in HU 112-Prof. N. Johnson SATURDAY, JUNE 8 Economics 38 (Quantitative Methods :in Economics)-in 9:00-11:00 A.M. SS 010-Prof. Bennett Art 26 (American Art)-in SS 016 - Prof. Eckert Economics :39 (Public Finance}-in SS 113-Prof. Mercer Drama 23 (Comparative Dramatic Literature: The Modern English 12 (English Literatare from Swift to the Moderas) Drama)-in HU 014-Mr. Meriwether -in HU 114-Mr. Renza Economics 10 {Elementary Economics, Part I)-in HU 115 English 22 (The American Short Story)-in HU 115-Prof. -Mr. Bingham Gado Economics 34 (Financial Ana1ysis)-in SS 112 - Prof. History 35 (Emergence of Modern America, 1880-1929)- Prosper in SS 117- Prof. Jonas English 13 (Major American Authors)-in HU 116-Prof. History 50 (Europe in the 20th Century)-in SS 01.6---'lVIP. Harvey Hansen Chinese 1:l (Basic Chinese Ill) in HU 119-Prof. Woo History 75 The Russian Revolution and the New Regime) Chinese 42 (Modern Expository Chinese Ill) in HU lHl -in SS 012--Mr. Berk -Prof. Woo G 11 (B ' G II) ' H·U 0·1·6-Prof. Olden· History 22 (History of Medern Britain: 1660-1967)-in SS erb;~ok astc erman -m 117-Prof. Finkelstein Spanish 12 (Basic Spanish lll)-in HU 117-Mrs. Astiz History 58 ( U. S. Business and Latin America)-in SS 110 Political Science 45 (Political Institutions of China)-in SS 112 -Prof. Bristol h Ilistory 72 (The Soviet Period)-in SS 012-Mr. Berk -Mr. T urston French 30 (Readings in Contemporary French Literature) Biology 38 (Biology of Animal Parasites)-in EE 22 - -in HU 117-Prof. Roberts Prof. Styles German 32 (R eadings from 1 9 th and 2 oth Centur\ Litera- Chemistry 12 (Fundamental Chemistry Il)-in BU 201- , Prof. Schaefer ture)-in HU 016- Prof. Oldenbrook Ch · 40 (Ad d 0 · Ct.. • t ) ' BU 201 Philosophy :32 (Modern Philosophy)-in HU 113 - Prof. e~~~f~Sowa vance rgamc uemis ry -m - Peterson Mathematics 14 (Calculus III)-in PL 202--Prof. Holt Political Science :32 (American Political Thought)-in SS Mathematics 26 (Numerical Analysis)-in PL 202-Pmf. 115-Prof. Board Powers Political Science 51 (Studies in American Foreign Policy) E. 22 (Science of Engineering Materials)-in CH 111- -in SS 113-Prof. Gati Prof. Leary Mathematics 30 (Ordinary Differential Equations) - C.E. 30 (Structures I)-in CH 306-Pro£. Brungraber Sec. 1 - in CH 210 - Prof. Holt f · c f Sec. 2 _ in CH 201 _ Prof. Lindstrom M.E. 34 (Heat Trans er)-m H 301-Pro. Haag Psychology 30 (Theory of Personality)-in PY 102--Prof. TU;::SDAY, JUNE 11 Graves 9:00·11:00 A.M. E. 18 (Elements of Thermodynamics) - Music 10 (Introduction to Music)-in HU 115-Prof. H. Sec. 1 - in CH 301 - Prof. Ketchum , Wilson Sec. 2 - in CH 111 - Prof. Leary 1 English 20 {American Thought)-in HU 116-Prof. Gad{) A. S. 25 (World Military Systems-in HH-Capt. Steinmeier 1 History 52 (Seminar in 20th Century European History)- SATURr>AY JUNE 8 in SS 110-Mr. Hansen 2 00 4 00 p M ' German 12 (Basic German III)-in HU 114-Mr. Peschka : 'c~mp. 'Ed.. 31 (Social Revolutions) - in SS 016 - Profs. i Political Science 11 (The American Political System)- in Hansen, Willison SS 112-Mr. Connor Comp. Ed. 36 (The International Economy in Historical Anthropology 11 (Man and Culture)-in SS 115--Mr. Sather Perspective)-in SS 115-Prof. Wilkins Biology 51 (Ecology)-in PL 202-Prof. Niller Comp. Ed. 38 (Voltaire and the Age of Reason)-in HU 115 Physics 34 (Physical Optics)-irt PL 106-Prof. Goble -Mr. LeClerc E. 24 (Electric and Magnet Circuits)- c Ed 61 (H E 1 ) · EE 16-D R end al Sec. 1 - in EE 22 - Prof. Ingvarss{)n omp. · uman co ogy -m r. oz a Sec. 2 - in EE 22 - Prof. Goodheart Com~.ro~.d·c~?a~~!terature and Psychology )-in PL 202-- Sec. a _ in EE 16 _ Mr. C. Allen Sociology 12 (Human Society II)-in ss 117-Prof. s. Fox. M.E. 42 (Thermal Energy Conversion)-in CH 111-Prof. Anthropology 13 (Human and Cultural Evolution) - in SS Aubrey 112-Mr. Sather ! TUESDAY, JUNE 11 Biology 13 (Biology of Plants-Core III)-in EE 22;-:-Mr. Fine ' 2:00-4::00 P.M. E. 40 (Stress Analysis)-in CH 111-Prof. Panllllo Comp. Ed. 42 (The American Presidency)-in SS 016-Prof. C.E. 44 (Engineering Planning)-in CH 304-Prof. Harlow W. Daniels MONDAY, JUNE 10 Classics 13 (History of Rome: The Em:pire)-in HU 115-- 9:0Cl·ll:OO A.M. Prof. Reece Drama 51 (Trends in the Drama)-in HU 016 - Mr. Economics 44 (International Economics)-in SS 010-Mr. Meriwether Bryant • Economics 36 (Corporate Accounting)-in OC-Mr. Malik English 11 (English Literature from Cllaueer to Milton)-' English 56 (Poetry of John Milton)-in HU 119-Prof. in HU 117-Mr. Renza History 34 (Democracy in Crisis: Civil War .and Reeon· struction)-in SS 110-Dean Leichterman History 65 (l\il()dern Japan)-in SS 113-Mr. Thurston French 32 (French Literature and Society)-in HU 116- Prof. Roberts German 30 (Readings in Contemporary German Literature) -in HU 110---'Prof. Klemm Philosophy 11 (Methods of Philosophical Thought)-in HU 01:6-Miss Parker Biology 40 (Biochemical and Molecula1· Genetics)-in EE 22-Prof. 13utzel Chemistry 37 (Physical Chemistry II)-in BU 201-Prof. J. Daniels Mathematics 10 (Calculus I)-in PL 202-Mr. Riley Mathematics 13 (lntreduction to Abstract Systems)-in PL 202--Mr. Eick Mathematics 40 (Orthogonal Functions and Boundry Values) ~in PL 2()2-Prof. Powers Physics 36 (Classical Mechanics )-in PL 204-Prof. Titus Physics 44 (Solid State)-in PL 106-Prof. Grunwald E. 14 (Particle Mechanics)- Sec. 1 - in CH 111 - Prof. PanHlio Sec. 2 - in CH 304 - Prof. Shanebrook C.E. 31 (Engineering Design)-in CH 3tH-Prof. Williams E.E. 33 (Applied Electronics)-in EE 16-Prof. T. Schwarz M.E. 41 (System Dynamics and Control)-in CH UO'- Prof. Haag WEDNESDAY, June 12 9:00-11:00 A.M. Greek 12 (Greek Composition)-in HU 110-Mr. Ross . Greek 15 (Aeschuylus, Sophocles, and Euripides)-in HU 1 110-Mr. Ross Latin 15 (Latin Literature of the Silver Age)-in HU '113- Prof. Reece Economics 11 ('Elementary Economics, Part II)-in SS 016- Prof. Abbott French 42 (The Age of Voltaire)-in HU 116-Mr. LeClerc Philosophy 21 (Mathematical Logic)-in HU 014 -Miss Parker Biology 81 (Biochemistry II)-in EE 14-Prof. Mirof:f Chemistry 31 (Organic Chemistry H)-in BU 201-Prof. Nahabedian Mathematics 24 (Projective Geometry)-in CH 206-Prof. Seiken . Psychology 10 (A First Course in Psychology)- Sec. 1. - in PY 113 - Mrs. Hesse Sec. 2 - in PL 202 - Prof. Girdner Sec. 3 - in PL 202 - Prof. Calabria Sec. 4- in PY 202- Dean Huntley A.S. 31 (Growth. and Development of Aerospace Power II) -in HH- Capt. V. Johnson WEDNESDAY, June 12 2:00·4:00 P.M. Art 22 (Renaissance Art of Italy and Northern Europe~- in SS 016-Prof. Eckert Classics 23 (Apocrypha and New Testament)-in SS 115- Prof. N. Johnson Latin 12 (The Aeneid: A Critical Approach)-in HU 113- Prof. Freund Economics 25 (Principles of Accounting )-in OC-Mr. Malik History 30 (C()lonial Period of American History) - in SS 113-Prof. Olton French 12 (Basic French Ill)-in HU 114-Prof. R.oberts Russian 12 (Basic Russian 111)-in HU 110-Prof. PetElchuk Philosophy 1() (Introduction to Philosophy)-in HU 115- Prof. Peterson Biology 14 ( ()rgin and Diversity of Animals-Core IV)- in BU 201-Prof. Roth Biology 32 (Biology of the Vertebrates)-in EE 22-Prof. George Chemistry 42 (Advanced Analytical Chemistry)-in BU 104 Prof. Lanese Mathematics 16 (Linear Spaces)-in CII 201-Mr. Riley Mathematics :33 (Abstract Algebra II)-in CH 210-Prof. Bick Physics 42 (Thermodynamics)-in PL 105-Prof. Scbick Psychology 31 (Abnormal Psychology)-in PL 202-Prof. Pearce Psychology 35 (Organizations Psychology)-in PY 10~ Prof. Graves E. 52 (Advanced Topics in Programming)- in EE 14-- Mr. Plesums ==~------------------------------ Cont:o.-di~nsis Uinlng Guidt; -----------------------------------------------.1 ,~-~~----~~~~~~~~~--~~ 1 Let the Jager freely flow. ~ Old Dutch Restaurant OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK A Touch of Hol!cmd in Schenectgcfy Excellent Food -- Moderate Prices 10% DISCOUNT FOR ALL UNION STUDENTS 1617 Union St. Phone 37 4-5770 Gershon's Sandwiches Cold Cuts Salads Open Tues. - Sun. 8 A.M. to 9 P.M. Ph: EX 3-0617 1600 Union St. DARI TREET RESTAURANT YOUR CHOICE: CHAR-BROIL STEAK VEAL CUTLET CHICKEN •.. $1.50 2049 Van Vranken Ave. FR 7-4261 Mother Ferro's Restaurant Specializing in Italian - American Foocl Discount for Union Students 20c on t~e dollar PIZZA free Parking Dl 6-9554 1115 Borrell St. ! Down to Louis', let us go, ! I A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties accommodated in our RATHSK£1.L£R For reservations phone FR 4-8917 DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Ro(Jm Fine Food and legal Beverages 118 - 120 JAY STREET LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian .. American Food 1125 BARRETT ST. Schenec:fady OJ o-9744 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar RITZ RESTAURANT 1725 Van Vrc~r~l<en Avenue Featuring - HOME STYLE ITALIAN rOODS. STEAKS CHOPS. SEAFOCDS Catering To Small & Largl? Parties Pizza & Sandwiches at All Hours Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open Daily 11 A.M. to 3 A.M. Serving Union For 34 Years SILVER DIN.ER of Schenectady ERIE BOULEVARD 6 A.M. - 11 P.M. 346-9522 Excellent Food and Informal Atmosphere Mama Bian(;hi's DIAMANTE'S I Fine Italian & American Food I Cooked ltol.ian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Open Sunday Special Tues. & Thurs: Spaghetti & Meatballs with Salad and Coffee-$1.00 1135 Barrett St. Private Banquet Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott Street Open D:Jlly 10 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to 1 A.M. Enjoy Our Fine Horne ·------------------------~· ·------------------------- Fac: 97- ll The lacn but slightly urday, with They close sidering th< but they W• record. Inj1 cost them ' Hobart, wl was far ou1 Steve Ri attack, brol . goals. Stea1 one goal i turning po: ished with. assists .. Bol: finest days. .. ~d goals. B Counc To PI ll The Stu administra1 of protecti a motion I ing in Hal< The iss1 brought Ul of violenc· night, foll< the Rascal ed that fiv· and robbeC: side frater had been ~ The mo' administra\ nectady pc and as)ced p: oatrols th• The Cc 'his force a spotligh Concern w iency of tl by one cot prised of bers callec either hire ment the new force The me ities to se artd Burm order to c ency of a the past, from the trouble at which fol agents arE to preven An amE thorized a other col lems. The Co1 lege's rolE in loco pa up by th committe< askin~ th what 1t c< to be, wil Martin.

,, •• Recon- 116- ) llU EE J. PL V2lues) Titus Williams . Sehwarz UO'- Ross HtJ 1 '113- SS 016- LeClerc Miss II) ss 115- HU 113- M:alik - inSS 'I R.oberts Peholchuk 115- IV)- 22-Prof. BU 104 r. Riley S<!bick 102- EE 14-- Faculty Forum 'Page 3 97 No. 31 Animal Farm Page 2 Founded at Union College 1877 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, TUESDAY, MAY 21, 1968 PRICE 1 5 CENTS Goldstein, Mank~er, Rundell Offer Choice Of Personalities By JEFF BROWNE Union's student electorate may be fmstrated if it tries to differentiate between the three candidates for stu- dent body president at the po1ls to· night - at least on the basis of issues. If there is a choice, not an echo, 'between Mark Goldstein, Edgar Run· dell and Rusty Manker, it is a choice ·of personalities and experience. All the candidates have ind.Jcated thye favor a reduction in maintenance requirements, liberalized social rules, an All-College Academic Council, com- manication, student power and Union itself. They cliffer, though in personality and past performances. Here is Hew: a fraternity but says he expects to in the Fall. Rundel'l said he is running this year because there are accomplish· ments he would Iilte to achieve im- mediately. He would rather not wait a year or two. Ru.ndell was active in student coun- cil his freshman year, and a member of the council's committees on the maintenance system and convocations. He helped initiate the abolishment of convGcation requirements. Bill Boemke '70 nominated Run- dell at the caucus. Supporters point to Rundell's \fresh ideas and desire to do a good job.\ They say he is \a hard-worker and very well acquaint- ed\ with events on campus. Manker, a write-in candidate, was not asked to run by next year's stu- dent council, but is the choice of the council's outgoing president, Grady Aronstamm. A pre-med junior in Phi Epsilon Pi, Manker emphasized \ex· perience is the key ·to a dynamic presidency.\ He has been vice-president <>f the student body, social chairman, presi· dent of the cheerleaders, and or-ienta· tion counsellor, and a member of the tax committee, pre-med society, del- phics and gatesmen. Manker objects to the classifica· tion of \insiders\ and \outsiders\ and claims that \an inexperienced officer must spend 50 percent of his term just learning what to do.\ The student electorate will make its choice tonight, not by diffErEntiat- ing between issues. The choice is between the vigorous enthusiasm of an anxious freshman, the insight of a fresh personality and the experience of an established leader. Steve Ritterbush scores one of his five goals in Saturday's 13-9 win over R.P.I. Goldstein, a junior science major; is a member of Delta Phi fraternity. He said his resident advisorship in West College this past year has kept him informed in student affairs. Sticktnen Slash RPI, 13-9 That he is an \outsider\ in student government, he asserted, \is an asset.\ By LEN SIMON The lacrosse team capped a good, but slightly disappointing season Sat- urday, with a 13-9 victory over RPI. They cl<>se at 9-3, a fine record con- sidering the heightened competition, but they were close to a superb 11-1 record. Injuries on attack may have cost them victories over Cortland and Hobart, while the Syracuse contest was far out of reach. Steve Ritterbush paced Saturday's attack, broken hand and all, with five goals. Steady Lee Schneider got his · one goal and three assists at the (turning point of the game, and fin- ished with. 57 points, 23 goals and 34 assists .. Bob Seefried had one of his finest days, putting in three unassist- .. ed goals. Bruce Westby tallied twice, Council Asks College To Protect Students By ALAN MELL The Student Council charged the administration with the responsibility of protecting students on campus in a motion passed at last night's meet· ing in Hale House. The issue of student safety was brought up as a result of incid~nts of violence on campus last Friday night following the cancellation of the Rascal concert. The Council learn· ed that five students had been beaten and robbed and that cars parked out- side fraternity houses on Lenox Road had been broken into. \Old 1\'Ien\ The motion passed called on the administration to hire off-duty Sche· nectady police on concert weekends and asked for a re-evaluation of the ,...,fl\'\\~~· private police force which oatrols the campus. T h e Council questioned whether • his force has a car, equipped with a spotlight, to get around campus. Concern was expressed over the effic- iency of the force, and was described by one council member as being com· prised of \old men.\ Council mem· bers called on the administration to either hire younger men to supple· ment the force or hire a completely while Ken Milne and D<>llg Duval each had one goal and one assist. RPI jumped to a quick 2·0 lead as Joe Quackenbush and John Baker tallied in the first three minutes, but Seefried's goal only 30 seconds later got the Garnet rolling. Milne, on a feed from Schneider tied up the score, and when Westby took an- other fine Schneider pass in for a score, the Garnet led 3-Z. Gary Masner tied the score just before the end of the third period. Schneider opened the second period scoring with an assist from Milne, and Ritterbush followed wit:h an un- assisted score. After Bakel' tallied again for the Engineers, Duval con· verted a Schneider pass for :a picture Continued on Page 4 An endorsed candidate of the newly elected council, Goldstein criticized the present one as an \uninformed\ and slow to act organization, pointing especially to the ACAC and the main- tenance system, which he feels should have been dealt with sooner. Craig Baumer, president-elect of the class of '69, nominated Goldstein. Bau- mer said that \new faces in the stu- dent council indicate the student body isn't pleased with the performance of the old council.\ He feels that Goldstein represents \new ideas - new blood.\ 'l'he other council-endorsed can- didate Rundell, is a freshman politi· cal science major. He has not pledged P. S. Students To Have' Voice In Depart1nent By PAUL FARNH/\.M: The election of a student represen- tative to participate as a voting mem- ber in department meetings will be one of the changes in the political science department next year, Prof. Illness Hits Rascals; Friday Concert flops The Young Rascals did not perform on Friday night of Spring Weekend because Felix Cavaliere the lead sing- er and organist had not yet fully re- covered from the mumps, an illness which has forced The Rascals to can- cel all their engagements foi' the past five weeks. The Left Banke, who were sched- uled to appear with The R~scals, ar- rived at Union Friday evening, were payed the contract fee of $1200, and immediately left for Toro!lto, where they were to play a concert on Satur- day night. Joseph Board, chairman of the de- partment, announced Monday. Also, Frederick Hartwig and Byron .Nichols w1ll be jommg the depart- ment next year. Prof. Board said, \We have been interested in gettmg student rEactwn to the curncwum, VlSltlng candidates, and :tacult-stuctent re1at1ons.\ 1'he rep- resentative Will be a connecting lmk between faculty and students. The department has been thinking al>out this idea for the past tour or five months. The system has been used in some European umversities, par- ticularly in :Scandanavia. Board hopes that matters will be orgamzed this sprmg so that the pro- cedure can go mto operation in the fall. Coalition fer Academic Voice Organizes Town ·Meeting To Discuss ACAC, Grades Members of the newly-formed Stu- dent Coalition for an Academic Voice met this morning Vlith about 75 stu- dents and faculty in the Social Sci- ence Auditorium tl) discuss three pro- posals for an All-College Academic Council. Eugene Kokot '70 led discussions beginning at 11:3() a.m. after three fellow coalition members, Neil Gor- don, Larry Pellisb. and Abby Still- man each presented an ACAC plan. President Martin indicated he was skeptical of a \tendency to substi- tute rhetoric for labor,\ but said he was . encouraged by the student and partiCularly the recent faculty inter- est in student delllocracy. \There is no easy format,\ the President said, speaking from the back of the aaditorium, indicating that the proposed academic council will take time t<> take shape. He encouraged the students to \take a square look at yourself,\ and \recognize that serious changes are going to take a lot of time.\ Martin was responding to a charge from a student that he had appointed a committee to look into an ACAC without the knowledge of the student body. Gordon's ACAC proposal calls for a recommendatory body composed of one student elected by each division, the student body vice-president and a faculty member from each division. Pellish suggested that the ACAC be the \watchdog of the Student body\ on academic affairs and a body to in· traduce student opinion. HE called for an ACAC vote on the faculty council and representation in general faculty meetings. Pellish suggested a membership similar to Gordon's with three m()re students appointed by the student council. Stillman proposed a council of sev- en students, seven faculty, t:Ele deans of Center I and II and the president of the college. He suggested .that the ACAC be represented in the All-Col- lege Council. Prof. Joseph Finkeklstein criticized what he called a small student turn- out and said that students were mis- informed on several matters. Krech To Speak On Mind Professor David :Krech, a prominent experimental psychologist from the University of California at Berkeley, will discuss \The Chemistry of the Mind\ in a Convocation Lecture 'Thursday at 11:30 A.M. Professor Krech lias been intimately involved in an interdisciplinary scien- tific investigation irrto the nature of learning and mernory. Some of the most modern and complex tools of anatomy, chemistry and psychology have been assembled in his labora- tories for the purpose of determining the relationships between the behavior of animals and the chemistry of their brains. Dr. Kerch received a B.S. in 1930 and an M.A. in 1931 from New York Univ~rsity and took his Ph.D_ at Berk- eley 1n 1933. He has served on the faculties of the University of Chicago Swarthmore College, Bryn Mawr Col: lege, and the University of Colorado. Krech has been a visiting ]lrofessor a~ the Un~yersity of Oslo, the Univer- sity of NIJmegan, and Harvard Uni- versity. He is the author ()f about 125 re~earch articles in var1ous psy- chologiCal and neurophysiological technical journals. Violence Breaks Out , new force of campus cops. ' T h e motion also called on fratern- ities to send letters to the Pinkerton artd Burns private police agencies, in order to call attention to the ineffici- ency of a number of their agents. In the past, fraternities have used men from these companies to prevent trouble at concerts and at the parties which follow, and have found these agents are often unable or unwi11ing to prevent trouble. Notified of a possible cancellation of The Rascals on Wednesday, Rusty Manker and Craig YounEr 7 who or- ganized much of Spring Weekend con- cert program, travelled to New York City hoping to find a replacement group of equal reknown. Sid Bern- stein, manager of The Foltr\ Tops was unable to locate one mel!lber of the group. Simon and Garfunlde, who had been on vacation all week, were a definite possibility and Manker was not notified until 3 :30 Friday after- noon that the duo would not appear because of a dinner engagement. Frederick Hartwig, a specialist in urban politics, will be teaching a course in politics of metropolitan areas. He has plans to work up a course on the politics of education which may eventually be offered as either a departmental or a compre- hensive education course. Hartwig did his undergraduate work at Lawrence University in Wisconsin and is com- pleting his Ph.D. this year at North- western University. He is regarded by Northwestern as one of the most promising young people seen there in a long time. Brain Works During the last several years Dr. Outbreaks of violence on campus marred the atmosphere of S p r i n g Weekend. in Our R<lom I Gate 1 A.M. 1 A.M. orne An amendment to the motion au- thorized a study of the ways in which other colleges handle similar prob· lems. In Loco The Council also discussed the col- lege's role of interceding for students, in loco parentis, when they are picked up by the police following a crime committed off-campus. A resolution, askin~ the administration to define what 1t considers its role in this field to be, will be presented to President Martin. With the possibility of Simon and Garfunkle and no definite cancella- tion from The Young Rascals until 4:00 p.m. on Friday afternoon, the college administration and student 1eaders were unable to notify Union students of the cancelled concert until 4:30, when a decision was made by Dean Olton, Mr. Lucas, Manker, and Youner, and Tom Flynn to cancel the entire event. Most of the 3000 area tic:ket-holders were unaware of the cancellation un· til they arrived at Uni()n that eve· ning. Byron Nichols will teach courses in international and comparative poli- tics and will offer a course on Latin American politics. He did his under- graduate work at Occidental College in California where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa in his junior year. Nichols received both a Woodrow Wil- son and a Danforth fellowship to the Job.ns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies where he is fin- ishing his Ph.D. this year. Curriculum changes next year in· elude the introduction of a course in presidential politics taught by Prof. Daniels. In ord.er to get sl!laller class- es, a series of four se:tllinars will be instituted, two of which will he off. ered next year. These will be on American government and on foreign policy. The following year seminars will be held on comparative govern· rnent and on political theory. Krech's team of scientists have per- fected techniques which have made it possible to determine differences in the neurological.chemistry of train- ed and untrained animals. This data has led to new and fas- cinating knowledge about how a brain actually works. JIIIost of Dr. Krech's investigations have involved experi- ments on rat brains because of the availability of genetically pure strains. However, his tearn has also . applied its techniques to various other ani· mals. Dr. Kerch will not only discuss the most recent advances in the study of brain chemistry, but will also .speak about some of the broad philosophical and scientific implications of his at- tempts to reach a fuller understand- ing of the nature and functioning of the mind. Five students were beaten and rob· bed, some care at fraternity houses were damaged and there was violence between fraternities and townspeople and between fraternities themselves. More Police Dean of Students Charles S. Olton said he felt that in view of the trouble caused by off-campus people that the college and fraternities should re- evalua~e their present security system. He sa1d he felt that the hiring of off-duty Schenectady polic.e was to be considered. Reaction to the incidents of the past weekend have included calls for sealing off the campus to outsiders on party weekends, hiring more se- curity forces, and abolishing further concerts open to townspeople.

2 l''ublb>hn.l TtH.:sdU.j s and Fl~ldays dur· lng the school year by the Student lloJy uf l'nlon Culleg~. Schenectad)'. X. Y. JSati~nal AuveJ'tislng Represen· t.at1v~: l':tt.·tlonul Educational Adver- tising Service Inc.. 3GO Lexinston Avo. :'-0. Y.C. Ed• to rial lit' flee. Bron· ner House .. Union Culll•ge. llul>ltl·alion Office, Sch~nectatly Printing Com- .pany, 50~ Uroacl wa-y. Entt:red in the Schen~ctudy Post Offke a~ Second Class l\Iull. Subscl'iptiun l:ic a COI>Y; i.> a year <lellvered nnywhel'e In tr~ L.:n1ted States. tttc'l!.\ltll L. i'XI\ri;Jt;;u::-; JH. 'o·0 ........ 346·8614. .. .. I::Li•LUI·IIH..:llie! ~L ~.\:\\'PlL\ I.t )HP :~!13-4~113. TraOl·lJwl\tation Etlitur D. PETER DROTMAN '69 . .. ...... 3·72-9730 ........ Business Manage, NElL S. KHA~!Elt 'oO .................... 346-8614.. ........................ M,naglng Editor dEI•'.l.'' BROWNE '6\.......... .. ........... 3·16-99o3....... . ................ ::\ew~ Editu1 UAHY l'lU::Yo:;T '69 .. .. . .................... 393-7841......... ... .. ............ Sports Editor STEVE FOX '70 . .. ........................ 316-3019.. . ..... Features Editor RIC'HARD BAl. AU i'R '69 C'on•ulting l·~uito• JOSEPH A. r>IA~S JH. '6~. .... .......................... . .. . .......... J,;dJtor Emel'ltUn JUNIOR BOARD I>ick Daniel • 70 . . . .............................................. .. l'hotogl'aphy Eultoi LC'n ~in1un 'iO .... AssoriatP Sports Edttor HPnry Ff>ln '71 Assistant Sports l•~ditor Paul I<'arnham '70 . ... . . ............................................... Assistant News Editor \Villiain OUZt>r '71 .......... .-\sslstant :\:lanaging Eclitor Pa·Ltl .\tHln·w.s ·; 1 .......... .Assistant Features Editor ~like Swirsky '70 ............................................................ National Advert-ising Manager Stephen Littman '70 ...................................................................... Subscription Mana.ger F\red Stern '70 ............................... \ .................................................. Production Manager Carl Goldsand • 70 ............................................................................ Clrculation Manager R icha-rti Lewis • 7 0 . . .. . ....... Loeal Advertising Manager [,.U\\'l't>fll't>- RothiJlum ·-;u ........... Distribution Manager [)t>tli~ :\l~~·t·r '';IJ.. . .. DiHtril>ution l\iana.ger (>au! Grayson 'G8 . . ....................... Paper Boy Paul Gerber '6S..... .. ... ........ .............. .. ........... Assistant Paper Boy Len Kagan '69......... .. ...................................................................... Fraternities Editor STAFF 1\llO:~IB~:jRS :\' 1•:\\·:-;,. .\1 1 ia rtnPr. John .\nt>~. Carl i llPt ::l, Llu~·d \\'nlkt•nft>lll. .\lun :\kll. :-.:: lt•\'t• l 'ok . .:\111\t\\ Crow!Py. Bill l'olw·t·i. SJ•ORT!\\ .l·t) Blitzman. l't>tt-' Hathaway. John l>t>nt>f1·io. !\likf' Rl\ger Fft;ATl'H.I•.S ..• \1 L'oht>n, Pt>tPr \\'Pingolli BLSI:'\Jo;l'lb L'harles Hogan, Jeff Biro, Roy Karlin, Jerry Levine, Pat White, Ed Tessler Anintal Farnt The events of the past weekend call for a searching re-evaluation of the type of social weekends now so prom- inantly a part of Union College life. It seems that the large effort and expenditure for a big name rock group always runs the risk that the concert will not be held. It is almost a tradition with Union College concerts that they be cancelled. It is shocking to be remind- ed that this year alone, cancelled concerts have cost the students about $3,000. It is wondrous to speculate about what student activities could do if had another $3,000. If the concerts had been held Student Tax might have made money, but they weren't, and it didn't. Therefore much of the student t.ax fund went for nothing. It seems necessary to begin thinking in terms of fore- going more big concerts, at least until we can be reason- ably assured they will happen as scheduled. A small concert in the chapel that occurs is certainly preferable to a large one in the fieldhouse that doesn't. Opening the Fieldhouse to large concerts also means opening Union College to people from all over the Capital District. Unfortunately many of the people coming on campus for these concerts are not desirable. They engage in fights with fraternities, beat-up individuals and generally harass and disturb the campus. Expensive big name con- certs require that we sell tickets to these people. If such concerts are not held there is much less chance that they will be aware of a big \bash\ at Union and come to harass us. In any event, the college has a definite responsibility to protect students from harassment from outside the col- leg~. We feel in the future it should markedly supplement its security forces on party weekends, perhaps with off- duty Schenectady police. The conduct of students on party weekends is, how- ever, also objectionable. What more ridiculous and shame- ful sight is there than to see two fraternities (brother- hoods) feuding and attacking each other? The degree of individual drunkedness, destructiveness and belligerency is a sign of gaping immaturity in the Union man, of which he should be quite ashamed. Such behavior does little to re-- inforce his aspirations to responsibility and maturity. Part of maturity and responsibility, a large part, is a decent regard for others. The Student Council, Tax Committee and Inter-Fra- ternity Council should begin immediately to re-evaluate the present weekend social system in terms of establishing one more worthy of an institution of higher learning and not an animal farm. Letters Burial 'fo the Editor : Last week, the New York Post carried the story of a wen- dressed man who was arrested for shoplifting ia a Madison Avenue ::;tore. Outside the shop, the man produced an expensive watch from his pocket. He handed it to the policeman and declared, \Congratulations my good man. You were a,lert and you have done your duty. I shaH report this to Mayor Lind- say.\ The police officer hesitated, but decided to take his suspect l!J for boeking anyway. At the precmct stabon, It was discov- ered that the well-dressed man had successfully pulled the same tactic three times in a month. Protessor Shinagel attempted this p1ay In. your columns last week when . he mawkishly con- gram:ated the student body for 1ts \growmg sense of self-aware- ness·· m connection with the how.s of protest over his \mod- est proposal tor a 12-pomt grad- mg system.\ Professor Shma- gel's attempts to take cred1t for 1·ousmg students irom their ''apathy and Lorpor·• and put- tmg union on the road to be- coming \a truly outstanding and exc1tmg commumty\ are an ln- terestmg d1stort10n of logic and mdwate clearly that he suffers not only from amorality, but .from an acute !Vless1ah Complex. Let's bury the ::,hinagel grad• ~ng system and then put our- selves on guard agamst the next move by th1s man who tnes so hard, but .so unconvmcmg.y, to penuade us that he ts the ~tu­ oents\ Friend. i\i ame Withheld by Request. Experience To the Editor: ln light ot recent events Un- ion Co11ege students have dem- onstrated the.r abHity to be arousea ana come to terms w1th quest1ons of greatest tmpor- (ance. 'this campus is reputed LO be bound to a tradition whtch calls tor nothmg but apathy to- ward any Issue which does not conce1 n 1mmed1ate academ1c standmg or personal weu-bemg_ 1Vly only rep1y to this is that al- though this m1ght have been true m the past It is certamlY not appucab1e now and must not be true in the iuture. I suggest 'that the means to insure that the present trend continues is the :Student Coun- CiL ~umerous comments have been made concerning the na- ture of breakdown in communi- cation and the commitment the counc1l must make to avoid these. 'Ihere can be no doubt that if the council were to be an organization which initiated action on wide-ranging issues in every aspect of campus life there would be no cause for alarm about communication .. For two years now I have served on the Student Council- last year as a representative and th1s year as secretary. During this t1me it has become appar- ent to me that the council has the potential to be creative and poweriu1: but at the same time 1t has also displayed a ten- dency to retreat into an organi- zation of disinterested students. I am personally gratified that this year's council, after a rough start, showed itself to be the former as it abolished an anti- quated convocation system, breathed life into Linebacker, stimulated and backed the move- ment to form an All College Academic Council, and reaf- firmed the right of Concordien- sis to be a free student press. All of these issues are of con- cern to the entire student com- munity and were discussed and acted upon through cooperation between the Student Council and the \concerned student.\ It is with this in mind that I have reason to be optimistic enough to believe that students are neither unaware nor unin- terested and that this kind of activity will continue. With the Student Council having no real identifiable constituency, it is at liberty to be as dynamic, im- aginative and as instrumental in campus affairs as it wishes. Con- sequently, with the priorities of Union coming under fire and the next academic year being a crucial one it is imperative that the new Council commit itself to taking the initiative in chal- lenging, restructuring and re- directing these priorities. This new council, though, al- ready has one major obstacle in its path and that is that it is cemprised mostly of new and in- experienced members. This, however, need not necessarily stand in its way, for new mem- bers may bring new ideas and new approaches to student gov- erament. To see that this does, ill fact, take place and in order to continue the council on the course which it has started on this spring, 1:t must have e~per­ ienced leadersh1p. For this reason, I am a caa- didate for the Vice-presidency of the Student Council and ask your support. Robert Bmwick '70 Invol'Ved To the Editor: The matter of student-faculty dialogue Is the Issue of most vital Importance this year. lt wtll be tne responstbllity ot next year's student government lead- ership to mamtain the begin· ings of a meamngful discuss1on o:t a variety of 1ssues. If this communicat10n is to have value, it must involve other issues, such as pass-fail, the Camp, Ed. program. Union Students are beginning to realize that their opinions are heard and carry weight. This awareness should make the stim- ulation of interest much easier to maintain. There are signs of definite student interest on a variety of issues. Next year's student lead- ership must concern itself with its maintenance and further stimulation. My conception of \student power\ does not in- clude the constant necessity of demonstrations and student strikes. I feel that one was necessary, however, to manifest the student body's feeling on the proposed marking system. Ideally \student power\ involves student participation in the de- cision-making process. As chan- nels of communication open, student involvement will in- crease and the student body will have a greater influence on some important issues. Ed Rundell '71 Blither The third Stock Market Lec- ture Series discussion will be held at 4:30 p.m. tomorrow in SS016. Joseph Winlleil will speak on the Basic Fundament- als of Investment Decisions. All interested faculty and stu- dents are invited to attend the lecture. 1968-6:> Pre-Registration ma· terials are now availab.e in the Office of the Registrar, Room z, Administration Buildlng. All students, except graduat.ng seniors, rr.ust immediately se- cure these materials. Students will see facu 'ty ad- visers from Wednesday, lV!ay 22, through Friday, May 31. Election for Student Council officers will be held tonight. Freshmen will vote in West Col- lege with the exception of pled- ges who will vote in their hous- es. Fraternity men will vote in their houses and independents in Fox and Davidson. '400 Blows\ will not be shown this Wednesday. See \Breath- less\ this Friday at 7:00 and 9:00 p.m. Senior graduation announce- ments are in the Student Activ- ities Office. Please pick them up. The next meeting of the Stu- dent Faculty Bridge Club will be held at Hale House Faculty Lounge at 8:00p.m. An Awards presentation will be held at this meeting. The results of the last tournament held on April 30 follow; First, Professor Bacon- Professor Goodhart; second, Meyers-Grey and Girschner- Fishman. THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROAST~D PEANUTS and Nulmeats from all over the world. 406 STATE ST. Tuesday, May 21, 1968 Acti,on Com,miitte Meets Hears ,Draft :Resister By P-ETER J. WEINGOLD Barry J 0hnson, 25, a mem- ber ot Resistance, spoKe lio a group of 75 students and con- cerned iSchenecta<ly-area Citlzens last ntght on tne topic ot \Con- scientious Responses to the Dratt\ in Social :Sciences 0H5. Johnson, no relation ta ,the Pres1d.ent of the ·same name, opened' his remarks by statmg tnat conscientious response to the draft could be broken up in- to two parts. These two major divisions, he said', consisted of \conscientious response to our democracy when it is at war\ and \<!onscientious response to the ,present conscription sys- tem.\ Concern \In a democratic seciety it is the responsibility of the citizens to he cnticaliy cancerned with what their country is domg. The citizens must be cencernect With the situatiOn as it affects those who are benefitting less by it than themselves.\ This wou1d include the poor and the un- der-privileged. \Because the leaders in a democracy are not expected to ar.gue against themselves or to question their own decisions, the citizens must seek out ar- guments to refute the positions of the elected officials. If the citizens refuse .to do this, then there is dictatorship by default.\ Johnson felt that it was a moral and political obligation of the citizens in a democratic society to check into and try and change if necessary those policies of the government with which they couldn't agree. Alternatives If a young man decides that he cannot for one reason or another cooperate with the pres- ent Selective Service System law, there are sevral alterna- UNION CALENDAR Wednesday, lUay 22: All-College Council, Hale House Stu- dent Lounge, 7:30 p.m. Thu1sday, l'~ay 23: Convocation, David Krech, Psychologist, \The Chemistry of the Mind,\ Memorial Chapel, 11:30 a.m. Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, May 23-25: Mountebanks Pro- duction, \The Brig\ by Ken neth Brown, Nott Memorial, 8::30 p.m. Friday, l.llay 24: Film Series, Series, \Breathless S.S. 15, 7:00 and 9:00 p.m. Saturdav, l\lay 25: North End Coffeehouse, Cliff Safane Trio, Bronner House, 8:30 p.m. Sunday, May 26: Film Work- shop, ''fhat Man From Rio,\ S,S. 16, 7:00 and 9:00p.m. Tuesday, May 28: Convocation, Northeastern New York Philharmonia, l\Iemorial Chapel, 8:30 p.m. 424 State Street tives open to him, according 10 Johnson and members o f arau counsel1mg serviCe spon- smcu oy tne bcnenectacty .tll'ea \;;1ei\gy ana Laymen (;oncerned .o.oou' VIetnam, wniCh atso spon- ~uH:JI:I .:Johnson's ta~k. ne may ,cooperate :partially, Jonnson :;aid, ·by c1a1mmg ia1se auments In oraer to receive a JJV-.1!' Classification, reiusmg to contront tne Issue by acceJ,Jtlng. a 1-A-0 or 1-@ c1ass1ficatwn or ·by seeking 11efuge in Canada. l'l one of these alternatives is encouraged by members o1 the Resistance as iJ>eing trur1y worth- whue smce they ao nothing to overcome the inequities of the present system in the long run. Noncooperation with the Se- lective Service System, Johnson said, is the only worthwhile al- ternative for those \believing in the unjustness of war\ or the \mequ1tres m eur present draft system.\ Couf.l'Ontation Johnson, in response to a questwn from the audience, agam emphasized that \the Re- sistance does not advocate run- ning away to Canada because that is escape. The Resistance wants to deal with the draft and the war and confront them.\ He further pointed out that \the individual members of the Resistance are not so much out to save themselves\ as they are trying to correct the social ills of our country. Johnson said that he doesn't pay the 1e per- cent tax charge on phone bills because that tax was instituted directly as a means to pay for the war. Since members of the Resistance. however, are con- sistently bereft of taxable in- comes, the question of not pay- ing income taxes, as Joan Baez has done, is merely a moot question. Soon The Rev. Lloyd Duren, leader of the Schenectady Area Clergy and Laymen concerned about Vietnam, and one of the area's leading draft counselors, felt that altheugh his group was op- posed to cooperation with the Selective Service System, they were more than williag to offer advice on alternatives to the Draft other than non-coopera- tion. Anyone concerned about his present or future draft status would be wise to contact Mr. Duren, or Eugene Kokot, before he no longer has the opportun- ity. JOIN THE NEW BREED VOTE Mark ~,Goldstein FERRO PHARMACY 575 Nott Street Schenedody, N. Y. FR 7-0510 FOUNTAIN SERVICE One block from Brownell Gate REALE'S For I he .finest in cameros a 11d stereo iidel·ity featuring Nikon, Hosselblad, Leico, AR Speakers, . Sony Recorders 1957 Foster Ave. FR .2-4446 Facu w~ By th nitial ans1 :~he effect 1 ~ ty for stuc ncreased ·iews. If the tcademic-I ·1ate abou· , 1oint systc who belie tducation~ ~hort of d wiH stude1 ters, whicl thus influ ,,pportum1 ,;ecend, w means, bh irnprovem1 through st With out on the letter tor, soever) th It is ess1 grade relation g larger qu€ More . ••to urge th That meaJ concern n1 of the fac .,an under~ opportunit offer then that the n I am eve ~<members under\ to adamant r closes disc raised. What. effective · to offer t what the. finally ha] spoken 01 issues vit• are questi and admi their edu< The, require jo be left in determine basic cor1 scholary 1 mine are -system, tb Union sh' the teach comprehe ~ ~them onl imperativ1 is the om Some tioned ab1 ·not. The college b1 faculty ag no longer ., ·that over In tb recognize many tim more prm \ 'and in a criminal i to deman own lives. t training, 1 the role ers only t faculty a Pass-Fail .t · The J children 1 at Union college w \ .'ask a stu doms to happens i resemblai , not to w< is equall~ step outs ' of consci unpreparc ~ading s Thes1 the shre\ tware of •t • 'ee one. ~ bring us .fohnson • ·udgel A .veakness 1 ·. ty, witho nanifesta none at admissior • , a strong The beside tb 'given ir we have would no .hink, wiJ :lemands We r , paranoia tpportion fear for above all last weel student J mitted m haps sorr ~ay that· What 1 ectual v: .hat fore :1ave noV\ .ism into suspect VI silently <

211 1968 according of spon- .tUea spon- :partially, ialse a iusmg to acceptmg or Canada. is oi the worth- othing to of the long run. the Se- Johnson a1- or the draft to a audience, \the Re- run- because draft nt them.\ out that of the out they are ills said e 1e per- bills pay for rs of the are con- xable in- not pay- Baez a moot leader Clergy about area's felt p was op- with the they to offer s to the his status Mr. before et Y. CE uring 2-4446 May 21, 1968 Welcome Awa,kening , . By the time this reaches print, the faculty will hue made its . mt1al answer to. the two requests presented by the Studellt C()alition. ~he effect of th1s answer,. ·I think, is likely to be incre~sed opportun- r ty for students to air their views on academic issues :and! a so mew hat ~creased willingness among the faculty to seriously co::nsider those i leWS. . , . . If ~he 1s.sues ra1_sed by the new student concern ·for a .part in teademic-policy makmg end here and come to .rest ·in>~:~xt-e11:ded de- ·,a!e about the relatively innocuous and symbolic ,Js~me oi the 12- , 101nt sy~tem, it will. be more than a disappointment to tl:J.ose of us who b~lleve the_se Issues may weH mean the cliffer.ence between t ducatlona~ survlVal and death for Union CoHege. It witl:b!e nothing ~~ort of disaster .. For as I see it the issues are thes:e: should and wiH stuqents be given ·1;\ genuine paFt in determining ac~d<e1ni<= mat- ters, yvh:tch meal}s. at f1rst, no doubt, merely a ellallCE to st.ate and thus lnfluen<=e faculty . ~otes but which must eventually mean an ,,pportum~y to help Illl!late and help vote ·On policy ·~h~nge. Aud ,econd, wtll we recogmze that the educational survival of Union means, bluntly, educat10~al improvement and tllat in tbis ,day such Improvement cannot 'Be Imposed by the faculty but .lTILlst b.e made throug~ student-faculty cooperation. · . W1th all due !>ut impatiently expressed ap1>Iogies .for .s:peaking out on these .questwns atter a very brief time at Uni<»n, I write this letter to remmd students (though they ma;y need no re10i!Ider what- soe~er). that ~hese are ~he questions they have so reasoaab'l~ raised. It Is essential that ,~n tne upcoming debate the <rttestion of _grades a~e determmed not usurp the primary quEstio:n 10£ what relatwn gra~mg has to education, if indeed it has any., and the larger que~twns I have suggested above. More Importantl;Y, I wnte this to my fellow faeulty members . r•to urge that \Ye cons1~er these larger questions freely a:~~d honestly. ' That means, m the f1rst place, that we recognize the ne'W student · concern not as; a threat to genuine ,education and tl!e .rea! ,interests of the faculty but as an opportunity to examine U11ion1~ success as .,an unde~graduate coliege. lt mea!ls too that we do nDt meet this Oli;'Portumty throu~h meas~res designed to. conciliate ~tlldents or to offer them a spunous or madequate voice in policy. 1 am worried that the measure adap~ed by my division meeting was irt.adequate; ~a I am even more \Yorned at the fear expressed by s«>JDe faculty memb,~rs that to give students ~hat they ~ant mea..ns \.knuckling under to tJ?.eiD: and a loss of their respect. Fmally •I aiD aft ~id that adaman.t_ reJec;twn of a. student voting voice in al:!adelll.ic m.atters for- cl9ses discussion of th1s fundamental issue before it ]Ju;. ·even been ra1sed. 'Yhat,. ~hen 1 ~re the . reasons for offering siudertts :11.ow an effectiVe voice m 1nfluenc1~g faculty votes and at lEast .preparing to offer them. a larger, vot1ng role as soon as possible? First that what the faculty has been yearning for, even despair-ing ab()ut has finally happened at qnion: the students have spoltell'. . .And· tll.ey 'have ~poken ~ut not, ~s m the_ past, about social questlon.s bllt about tssues Vit~l ~o theu ed!J~ahon here, Further, in :spe~tkimg .out, they are quest!O!Jmg ~he validity of t~e old precept 'that oi:~ly ·tl!e 'faculty anq admmu~tratw.n have. the wisdom and maturity t.o decide what their educatwn Will consist of and to what ends it will 'be directed The job before us now is to define what aca<lellli.c matt~rs require joint student-faculty decisions and what others ,c~n or should be left in faculty hands. Among those issues students: s:.h()uld not determine, it seems to me, are faculty work-loads a11d salaries the basic core <=ourses within each discipline, and judgrne:nt of' the sc~olary work of tlle. faculty. Among those they sboul!l !t.elJl deter- mine are the number and ~in~ of required course~, th..e grading , sys~em, the nature and ~rgamzatlon of Comp Ed, the k::in~ of relation Umon shc:mld f~s~er with the. local community, and judgment of the teachmg abihty of then mstructors. Neither of tlle~e lists is comprehensive, and each contains debateable item:;;, I introduce ~ , ~hem o~ly to Sl!ggest that defi~ition of areas of judgment is 1mperat1ve. To reJect any student Influence and vote i11 S'l.lch issues is the one course we can no longer take. Some of my colleagues believe that the old pre.(!eJlt I men- tioned above retains its '.lalidity today, I am convinced tt.at it does · not. The \student revolation\ did not begin at an uadergraduate college but at a university, where, with student ages rising and faculty ages dropping, the father-child relation of fact~.lty t~ students no longer made any sense. Berkeley discovered dur.img its crisis ., · that over half of its students were more than 21 years ~ld In_ the wake of Berk~ley, even \younger'\ studera.ts :began to recogm.ze that they were m many respcts as '!old\ as \their elders: many times more responsive to the world in which tluy- li.ved often more prone to question the accepted organization of tllejr e<lucation \ ' and, in any case, so vitally affected by college life tt.at it wa~ criminal irresponsibility not to ask whether it fulfilled its aims and to demand a part in helping it do so. When they comtilted their own lives, they realized, as the faculty should too t1:1at the specific 1 training, competence, and .experience of the faculty pre-p!l:.l.'ed teach- the role of the college in the community, but diet aot. give the ers only to offer ano1her view of issues like the grading s::ystem and faculty a privileged vision of the true. None of us took hi..s l'h.D. in • .Pass-Fail Systems. The new students are special in other ways as welL 'I'hey are children of the bomb; they enjoy an unusual social freedolll.; and at Union they enjoy too the dubious privilege of having known that college was not a matter of choice but a virtual inevitability, To \ ·' ask a student who has been granted a wide ·range of s<>cial free- doms to content himself with spring weekends anod igmo:re what happens in the classroom is folly. To ask students who pereeive the resemblance between a college career and the ~c:!ononti€! :rat race , not to work acti:vely for a more productive and creati-ve eoducation is equally ludicrous. And to tell a student who has determined to step outside the economic mill or who has welg:he<i th..e Gttestion ' of conscientious objection, draft resistance, and exile that he is unprepared to make mature decisions about the ,~ur-riculum and ~rading system is a supreme insult. These students have also a keen knowledge <»f po-wer. With the shrewd wisdom of any disenfranchised gr-oup suddenly made tware of its own disruptive energy, that know a phc-ney wllen they •t • 'ee one. They haven't watched the United States and North Vietnam hring us close to catastrophe through fear of losing :fa~e, or seen .fohnson abdicate only when his tight-fisted militar,- sta..ne-e :failed to ·udgel America into belief, or seen Grayson Kirl.: revealing his .veakness under the illusion that he was demonstrating llis author- 1 ·. ty, without knowing that hewing to old lines and rely-ing on external nanifestations of power have little relation to pllysical strength-and none at all to moral for<=e. They recognize the si.:nlpl~ faet that admission of error or genuine commitment to change is tb.e act of • • a strong man. The question of \knuckling under\ to studen-ts is: therefore beside the point. The fact of the matter is that we lla-ve already 'given in\ to students in reappraising the gradillg ,jssu.e, ('Would we have done so had they not spoken? I am asha111ed' to say that I .vould not.) Yet I see no signs of insurrection m <lisresp'€ct. Nor, I .hink, will we- see any unless we refuse to respect ti:J.ei:r responsible iemands or try to kid them that we have done so when we have not. We must, finally, try to get beyond the rather tni.cal American , paranoia whicll raises its head whenever power is about to be re- tpportioned. In fact, like DeTocqueville observing ~m.erica, what I fear for Union College is not revolution but a lacS: of it. What I above all fear is repetition after repetition of an eKperioence I had last week, when within 2 days three studeritS'-On~ .t:he very best student I have taught here, the other two good, rsponsi.ve, com- mitted men - told me they would transfer to ot:he::r coile,ges. Per- haps some students and some faculty will understand me when I ~ay that they simply cannot bear it here any longel'. What these students cannot discover at Union is adequate intel- ectual vitality ·- not, strictly speaking, politieal vitality- exl:!ept as .hat force can generate the former. The oppi>rtanity the students 1ave now given us is to channel the new currents of ~olitical activ· . ism into the life and death issues of education bet'e. If we fail, I suspect we'll continue to watch our best students and per.t.aps faculty !'lilently departing. 3 Evolving Out -Of The Turtle By PAUL ANDREWS Last Saturday evening's Dav- idson Entertaimr.eat Commit- tee-sponsored cocktail party and aU-night dance was \simply an overwheiming success,\ accord- ing to its organizers. Paul Vivian, Dave Zapata and Barry Sheridan were ''extreme- ly pleased\ with the resu·ts of what they said was the first in- dependently organized inde- pendent all-night party in Un- ion's 173-year history. Approxhnately sixty-five cou- ples attended the event, whkh featured a late afternoon cock- tail party followed by an all- night dance in the Fox House lounge after the concert. The \:Blue Lun::h,\ a Union rock- blues hand, provided back- ground rr.usic for the dance while George Herman gave sev- eral intermiss:on impromptu so:o performances on the bass fiddle. ProfessCJrs Roth and LeClair and Director of Residen<!e Pro- grams Richard Lucas were in attendance at the party, which was open to the rublic from 11 :30 p.m. on. Vivian pointed out that, al- though ticket sales numbered about 80, \a lot of people were ressimistic about whether the thing was really going to ccme off.\ But he said he fe:t that the success of the party set a model precedent for similar events in the futu11e. Vivian said that the success of the event indicated the Iro- bilization potential of the inde- pendents at Union. \This shows that independents on campus can form a secial a\ternative to fraternity parties,\ he said. The atmosphere of the inde- Apathy Is Dead! By CHRISTOPHER DOVE And it was to come to pass that in the last weeks of the Spring session, 1968, that the \apathet~c\ Union College student decided that he had had enough. He wasn't sure of exactly what he had had enough, but now, a new feeling had overcome him. He was born anew. At first, the process was slow and involved only small num- bers. There was a teach-in, a little pressure on the administration to enroll black students, a Choice '68 vote resulting in 75 percent of the students wanting a de-escalation of the Vietnam War, a protGSt against an imposed 12-point grading system, and a new Coalition for an Academic Voice. Insignificant Of course, these seemed insignificant compared to raging student protests in France, Germany, New York: City, and other American college cities. At that time, Union was not the center of student protesting in the country and had not even made the New York Times except for its trees. What could the Union student do to really shake up everyone enough to show that apathy was dead? The President of the Col- lege had called a meeting to discuss with the students some issues of importance. A small group decided to bring to that meeting a list of demands (that they would disguise by calling \grievances\). Grievances the Same One rather long-haired student represented the group. He knew he did not have much student support and probab·ly less administration support. His list was a composite of the same old things. You know: he wanted a co-ed school with a large black' enrollment, he wanted a student say in vital matteFs concerning them; he wanted military recruiters and R.O.T.C. off campus; in otP,er words he was saying nothing new. When he said, \It is our desire that a student committee be formed to interview all applicants for the position of Dean of Faculty,\ a cheer went up from the students. However, it was soon drowned out by the laughter of the administrators seated on the stage. Laughter The students were infuriated. They moved rapidly toward the stage locking arms with their comrades and forgetting they were apathetic and had their entire futures at stake. The laughter of the administrators suddenly changed to shreiks of fear. Then, realizing what was happening at Union College, they started laughing again, even though hundreds of students were surround- ing them and calling for their resignations. A small contingent of students left to establish control of the Rathskeller where they met violent opposition from the loyalist food pe()ple. This same rather long-haired fellow took the microphone and sang directions. The coup was so quick that the campus police could do nothing and the administrators, still laughing, could not call for the Schenectady police. utopia For the last few weeks of the term, the College was co-ed and well integrated. The Rathskeller provided pot, the Infirmary dispensed all sorts of drugs, and the Campus store sold contracep- tives at wholesale prices. Classes were held in Jackson's Garden and no grades were given. To say the least, the revolution was complete. Union College changed its name to Utopia University. But as the term ended, students began going home to Long Island and Boston. A summer of leisure ended the spirit of protest. Some longed for an education by the time September rolled around. The administration had no trouble regaining control. As the name was changed back to Union, the students returned to face a 48 point grading system and a new Dean of Faculty, arriving from a Catholic men's college which was too liberal for him. I have to end now because my federal aid was taken away for my disruptive activities last May and I had to get a job. Be- sides, there's an army re<=ruiter here I want to get some informa- tion from. pendent party was one . of _c;le- corous restraint as compared to the usu~l hedonistic debauchery of the fraternity beer blasts. The Committee said it felt that the more sophisticated tone was due to the serving of hard li- quor and the desire .of the per- sons in attendance to avoid turning the event into a drunk- en orgy. Vivian said he wanted to em- phasize the fact that the cock- tail party and dance were only one function of the Independent 1\lovement. Future plans, he said, included the ,possibility of sr:onsoring events of a \more academic nature,\ including speakers, fi'ms and projects in conjunction with the adminis- tration. One possibiUty he men- tioned wou:d dbe that of organ- izing a recruiting program whereby Union students would recruit potential freshmen from their high school alma maters. Vivian was optimistic about the future of the Independent Movement despite being faced with \severe financial difficul- ties.\ He said the success of the party showed that \inde- pendents can erganize\ and sponsor important college ac- tivities. . He pointed out that the limited cost of the party made it \very worthwhile\ io attend from the standpoint of the live n.usic and free liquor available. Vivian described the party's success as indicative of the fact that Union is \evolving out of the turtle,\ Whether or not the evolution will be com.(illeted remains to be seen, but a ·prime inf:uence in its future is certain to be the Independent Move- ment. T-w-o Departtnents Alter Requirentents By ALAN COHEN The emphasis for the future seems to be on experiments and changes as far as <=ourse require- ments at Union College. Speci- fi cal:y, the history and political science departments are chang- ing their requirements of the Senior Thesis. The political science depart- ment plans to offer three altern- t'tives to the senior majoring in its department.. A student can do a research thesis similar to the type which is now done. A sec.ond choice is a project in- \ olving both reading and par- ticipation v. hich culminate in a substantial written report. The third option is a senior tutorial in which students in small grcu.ps will write a series of short papers. Professor Board said that these changes come from a recognition of the fact that all students do not derive 1,.axin.um benefit from the con- ventional thesis. Professor Joseph Finkelstein Chair.man of the history depart: went, presented his plans for changing the history major's thesis by emphasizing the need to provide the widest and best choices for the student. Al- 'For three Generations.' Those Who Know Have been. recommending though it has worked fairly suc- cessfully during the past few years, the thesis requirement will be altered for students who wou:d prefer not to write a thesis. Instead they may en- gage in a research seminar with intensive instruction in methods of historical research. They will then write a major essay in a spedfic area of study. The stu- dent can extend the essay into a thesis if he so desires. Other- wise, he can do a paper based on less extensive research for the winter term. This second paper is based on a second area of specialization. The history department will hold no priorities and honors can be achieved £or either course of study. If this change in requirement fails to achieve its r:urpose, the history depart- ment will be ready to try an- other course or revert back to the original. Nevertheless, the change is the result of a feeling to \experiment innovate, and t:·y new things\ and it is en- couraging for the Union Col- , ege student to know that the facu:ty is taking it upon them- se1ves to make these changes w:th only the best interests of the students in mind. HERSHEL MAURICE B· W ALTE:R \\3 Union. Qraduafes. in Graubarf Family\' 166JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY Schenectady Printing Co., Inc. 502 Broadway 377-8838 L. G. BALFOUR CO. CARL SORENSEN BADGES - RINGS - FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - KEYS MEDALS • TROPHIES Write or Call fraternity Jewelers 729 Soutb Crouse Ave • Syracuse, N.Y. 1321()

Analysis of Candidates Page 1 Concordy Sports New Thesis Requirements Page 3 Nine Loses 6-0; Tourney Bid Dim By GARY PREVOST A combination of poor weath· er, a sudden lack of hitting pow· cr, and shoddy fielding hit the Garnet nine over the weekend as they fell to RPI, 6·0, finish· ing the season with a 9-2 mark. The Union hopes for a post-sea- son tourney bid were probably killed as the Garnet played only one of three scheduled games. Friday's contest at Middlebury and the nightcap at Troy were C'ancelled by rain. Saturday's contest was a scoreless pitcher's duel between southpaws Roh Hal!<.'nh<.'rk and Dennis l\1cKay for 7 1 ~ innings. RPI, which finished 9-5, scored six runs in the bottom of the eighth inning with the benefit of only one hit as the Dutchmen committed five errors. The key ptay of the inning occurred aft. er Hallenbeck walked the lead- olf batter. The next batter, Lee. attempting to sacrifice, bunted to Hallenbeck's left. The south· paw tried to make the force at second and threw the ball into centerfield setting up runners at second and third with no one out. RPI then scored a pair of runs on squeeze plays, a pair on a double to center which result- ed from a misplay, and a pair on an error with the bases loaded. Silenced Garnet Bats Cunc>halling l\IcKay silenced the Garnet bats on just five hits, four of them in the infield, but six walks and three Engineer errors gave the Garnet several scoring opportunities. In the third Dave Hourigan singled, stole second, but was doubled oft' when Mike Solomon's sink ing liner to ]eft was stabbed. In the sixth Hourigan walked and Solomon singled, but Ken Pearce, coming up with the most solid hit of the afternoon drove the ball down the right field line where it was hauled in on an over-the-shoulder catch to snulf out the threat. In the Keglers Close With :3-l Victory The Union College Bowling Club completed a disappointing year in the Capital District In· tercollegiate League last night by defeating Hudson Valley Community Colege 3-1 at the RPI Student Union Lanes. The victory enabled Union to move into fourth place, ahead of Siena and HVCC. Union com· piled a record of 2tl-43 to trail RPI-1 and RPI-2 and SUNY Al· bany. State won the league title on the final night Heading the Garnet last night were Ken Merchant and AI Case \vho totalled 509 and 504 re- spectively. Case led the individual aver- ages for the Garnet with a 177 average for 42 games, which in· eluded the high single for the league of 288. Bob Erianne had the second highest Garnet aver- age of 174. Last night marked the end of the season of renewal for the league which was rebuilt this year after a five year lapse. The Union team was plagued by an inability to keep a consistent team and to figure out the dif· ficult RPI lanes. ninth the first two men up, Mer- chant and McGee, l'eached base, but poor baseruhning left the Garnet whitewashed. Bob Hallenbeck pitched a fine game for the Dutchmen, but suf. fered his first defeat after five victories. He gave up five hits while walking three and strik- ing out nine. Bids to the NCAA regional will be announced by W ednes- day but with a 9-2 mark, Union has little chance of being sc· lccted. A total of nine win.s i!:; not particularly impressive when compared to all of the small college records on the East Coast. A recent small col· lege poll showed two Eastern teams in the Top 20, Long Isl- and University and Buffalo ~tate. Both are in Union's dis- trict. Bush Scores Fire To Lead Victory Over RPI Sat. Continued from Page 1 goal, and Quackenbush quickly retaliated. Seefried's full field jaunt with the Garnet a man down resulted in a backbreaking g o a 1 against RPI. The Engi- neers scored once more, but Ritterbush and Westby got un- assisted goals to close the half at 10-6. RPI scored after only ten sec- onds of the second half, but the Union defense toughened up and didn't allow another score for 28 minutes. Seefried and Ritter- bush each had unassisted goals during the third period, as the rains came and slowed down the action considerably. Entering the fourth period with the score 12-7, the defense took over entirely, aided by the wet field, and no one scored until Ritterbush closed the home scoring with three minutes to play. RPI added two last minute goals as coach Allison cleared the bench. Ken Auerbach had eleven saves and Andy Bittker eight, as they shuttled in and out of the goal. Larry Gillette had his usual steadying influence on the defense, while Ritterbush and Schneider made the attack go. '71 Tennis Wins The Union freshman tennis team closed out its season by tuning Hudson Valley 6-2 on Monday. Saturday's match with Siena having been cancelled, the frosh finished with a 3-2-1 rec- ord. Winning in the singles for the Garnet yearlings were Jack Lauroesch, Dave Schwank, Jack Liu, Ray Ahern, and Bill Coluc- ci. Schwank swept his HVCC opponent in consecutive 6-0 sets, the second straight match that he has accomplished this feat. Lauroesch and Schwank com- bined for Union's doubles vic- tory. The third doubles match was not played. there's one place that does it ! • Watch Repairs • Diamonds Reset • Jewelry Repaired WORK DONE • Rings Sized • Engraving • Pearl & Bead Stringing ON THE PREMISES _.._.,.v JMEI.RY Ul:ai. COMPAIII 815 State Street. Schenectllctl FR 4-8219 Tracksters Seventh in State Meet Players of the Week Sessoms To Run in ,IC4-A 440 Saturday in the 13-9 lacrosse victory over RPI, Larry Gillette and Lee Schneider did what they have been doing an seasen -they kept Union geing. With the injury ef Steve Ritterbush, they have emet\ged as the out- standing performers on the team, and have been consistent in that role. By HENRY FEIN The Garnet track team con- cluded its 1S68 season with a respectale seventh-place finish in the New York State Track and Fie~d Association champion- ships. The n,ect, held Saturday at Hameton College, attracted s:xteen squads. RPI wan the team crown, with Cortland and Brockport close· behind. Union ci ndermen amassed seventeen points, inr1uding two victories in hotly contested events. Al Sessems took the 44.0-yard run crown with a fine 49.9 clocking over the rain· soaked track. The Garnet 440 relay squad of Pete Ericson, Carl Thum, Dave Gray, and Ses- soms triumphed in 43.2. Thurn n·_ade the finals in his specialty, the 880, with a 1:59,4 time in his heat. Carl was boxed out, however, in the finals, and ran Linksmen Fall 4-3 To State By JOHN DENEFRIO The Garnet linksmen closed out their season Friday with a 4-3 loss to Albany State, leaving the team at 2-4 in dual meet competition for the year. After two early season wins over Ho· bart and St. John-Fisher and a second place finish in the Al· bany State Tournament, the Un· ion seven lost to Siena in a well played match and suffered sub- sequent defeats in close meets against RPI, Middlebury, and State. In the closing match Fri· day, John Hine, playing number one for the first time, won his match 5-4 while Doug Vergith and Mike Eisner defeated their opponents 1-up and 5-4. The win was the second straight for Eisner after having worked his way up to a starting position from the taxi squad. Rich Horsman dropped his match 3-2, Rich Critchlow his 2-1, and both Jeff Smith and Ward Blum lost their matches by the close score of 1-up. The 1-up loss was the key problem all season for the Bob Leonard coached team, which lost sever- al close dual meets with one or more golfers losing by only one hole in match play, Athlete of the Year In Friday's issue, the Ccn- cordiensis spm ts staff will honor the 1£67-68 Athlete of tha Year. The award honors· the senior who has contrib- uted the most to Union Col- lege athletics in the past year. Greg Olson was the recipient of the first award · last year. Gershon's Sandwiches Cold Cuts Salads Open Tues. Sun. 8 A.M. to 9 P.M. Ph: EX 3-0617 1600 Union St. poorly. He failed to place, al- though he was considered one of the favorites in the race. Fitz Turner tied his recently- established high jump record at 6' 2% \ but had te be content with a second-place finisb. Ed BlechHer tc ok fourth in the dis· cus with a 131' 3\ toss. Both the vars:ty and frosh mile relay teams finished .fifth. The varsity was c!ecked in 3:34, while the frosh medley squad of Joe Burgess, Mario Fischetti, Harold Heckman, and Terry Mc- l\Iannus fimshed in 3:46. Season Not Over The season is not over for Garnet star AI Sessoms, how- ever. He win represent the Gar- net at the ICAAAA champion- ships May 31 and June 1 at Franklin Field in Philadelphia. Sixty-five C()1Jeges have filed en- tries for this year's meet, and the field in the 440 is especially strong. In order to even reach the finals, Sessoms will have to smash his 49.0 Garnet all-time record. Among his foes will be defending champ Mark Young of Yale, who has run a 47.6 this season. That mark, also the IC4- A meet record, will probably be broken by Villanova's phenom- enal Larry James. Known to his teammates as \The Mighty Burner,\ James ran the fastest 440 ever recorded in 43.9 as he anchored the Villanova mile re- lay team at the Penn Relays, also held at Franklin Field From the blocks, James also has the fastest 440 time in the IC4-A this year, 45.2. Frosh Lax Crush Engineers, 16-6 By JAY BLITZMAN The '71 lax men disposed of RPI by a 16-6 count this past Saturday at the Engineers home field. The win enabled Coach Brown's squad to complete their slate with a 4-4 record. The first half of the RPI con- test was dominated by Wayne Christie and Ken Lorenze, both of whom turned in superlative performances. During the after- noon Christie picked up 10 points on six goals and four as- sists. Lorenze added four goals and five assists. At the half the score was 10·3 and the game's final result was certainly not a matter of speculation as the Gar- net thoroughly outplayed and outgunned their opponents. Starting at crease attack for Union was George Hobbs who was at this position despite the return t<> the lineup of Ned Dukehart· who was used at mid- field by Coach Brown on Satur- day. Hobbs scored once, as did Bruce Dugan, Ed Green, and Dukehart. Rounding out the Garnet offensive thrust was Steve Parrachini who netted two and continued to display the ability he showed in the loss to Cortland. In the nets for the Garnet was Ed Green who played his la- crosse at Williston Academy as a high scoring attack. At Union Coach Brown has used his tal- ents in goal for the last few games and Ed has performed quite well larry Gillette Lee (Alfie) Schneider Drew Toughest Man Gillette eonstantly drew the teughest attackman of the oppo- sition and held him in check The best examples of this were his defensive performances on Harry Blank of Cortland and Mike Hanna of Hobart. Gillette a~so was the key operative when the Garnet needed to clear the ball frem their defensive zone. Early in the season he did it nearly by himself, while later he got some well deserved help from improving underclassmen. He continued to show this de· fensive leadership Saturday, as he often singlechandedly cleared the ball, and dmade many fine checks on fast-'breaking Engi- neer attackers. Led S<!oring Schneider led the team in scoring with 57 points for the season en 23 goals and 34 as· sists. Saturday he got one goal and three assists· but his four points came just when the Gar- net needed a boost. He was, as in almost every game, a hawk on loose balls, and set up the offense from his post behind the crease. Many of his other passes mie-ht well have gone for scores had it not been for poor play- ing conditions which caused many errant shots. His play all season has been responsible for most of the scoring opportuni· ties the Garnet get. Statistics FI:\\AL BASEBAI,L STATIHTH'S l'layl'r AB II H MUke ]4agee ................... 42 17 14 Ken Merchant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42 16 12 Ken Pearce . _ .. _ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43 15 15 Brian Gidlow . . . . . . . . . . . . 33 10 6 Jim Wilson ........ _ . . . . . . . . . . 28 8 4 Dave Hourigan ...... - ........ - . 42 Tom. Miller .... _. _............ 37 Mjke Solomon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47 Bob MacKenzie .... _ . . . . . . . . . 11 Bob H:allenbeck . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 Joe Douglas ... . 5 Bill Neidel ..... . 12 10 12 4 5 8 6 4 4 0 1 2 Nn!on Total .. . Opponent Total 13 374 363 112 69 87 38 PITCHIXCl l'lay(>r G IP 53 31 13 97 93 won 5 I~ost BB so 48 29 13 90 63 !Iallenbeck 8 Ne!de! . . . . . . . . 5 Douglas . . . . . . . . 6 l:Jn!on Total .. - . . . 9 Opponent Total 9 3 1 9 2 1 15 8 0 3 2 26 9 70 1..\CitoRi'lE - I'IXAL STATISTICH I' layer Lee Schneider ~. A .....•.•.....••....•. - .. Steve Ritterbush - A .... - ............... . Sam Dill - A ..... - ...................... - !Cen Milne - M ......................... . Bob Seefried - M. - .... - .. - . - .... - . - - .... . Bruce Westby- A ........ -.- ..•• - ....... - ';rad Kl,light - M ....... - ... - ............ - iJiln O'Neil - M .. - . . - ....... - .. - - ... _ .. Pete Britten- M .... - ................... . Doug Duval - M .. - .... - ... - .... - ....... . John Rockwell - M .. _ ........... _ .. _ ... . R.ich Swan - M ........................ .. R.on Wall - M ................ _ .. • ...... . Mike Chater - A ...................... --. Union Totals . . . . ... - ....... . Opponent Totals Goalie Ken Auerbach ....... - .........•.•. - ..... . Andy Bittker . - ................•.......... Goals 23 19 21 8 9 19 6 2 I 4 3 2 2 2 124 79 san•s 73 65 Union Totals ..............•.......... 138 Opponent Totals ........... -. . . . . . . . . 191 l'enalties Personal Union • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73 Opponents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60 TPcbnl<'al 24 24 .\vg. .405 .381 .356 .303 .286 .286 .270 .255 .364 .250 .200 .077 .299 .190 HBI 14 11 7 3 6 5 11 8 2 2 1 71 29 Runs 24 E.lt ERA 12 2.04 I) 11 3 38 87 9 2.62 2 1.42 23 2.13 68 6.58 ,'\sslsts 34 l'olnt~ 57 32 25 13 13 4 5 0 2 2 1 1 6 1 0 0 0 71 41 9 21 8 3 2 10 4 2 2 2 185 12() Goals Again~t 48 31 79 113 Time 85 min. 72 min. Union Pharmacy Mama Bianchi~s Fine Italian & American F.ood Open Sunday 600 UNION STREET FREE DELIVERY COLOGNES & AFTERSRA VE LOTIOXS FR 4-3605 Jade East - Engl~h Leather - Brut Old Spice- Canoe - That Man Briti.Yh Sterling - Hawaiian Sur.{ Jean Nate Special Tues. & Thurs: Spaghetti·& Meatballs with Salad and Coffee-$1.00 1135 Barrett St. Private Banquet Room - A.1 - Vc>l. 9j Discip And Come ll Wedne took the , suring th editor o mously E Disciplin the trea1 sically ol words, ' discoursE out intei The D: ed the .P. on acade ''any stu examinat the C<>llE In res' requestlr statmg t ation ar1 that the reaffirmE by Alan that Patt ment in Turnin how the of Trust« trol on Rusty lV1 stuctent l to <leteriJ of the ~ ShOUld b Trustees the new1 TheAj ated If tJ test on t Comm1tt• obstruct!· cil was of a £ should n duct10n < The D: upset o\ academic case of t ,. a profess their ex; Prof. c on acade ence to said that in writin in Fres.b prevalen< demic ho that the not some punishme In ore cases, th1 to say tl:J ·1f cheati: pended. i\ 1 There· orial on V 60 studei of Black Fitz Tur order anc read a ' Black AI The stl the quest often by the prob ment als, tempt to uation lii does the There ~-seen thro students are still of the AI

3-9 lacrosse Gillette did what an season With Ritter bush, as the out- s on the consistent Man drew the the oppo- in check. f this were on rtland and Gillette when clear the zone. he did it later help this de- as dly cleared many fine 11 Engi- team in for the and 34 as- one goal his four the Gar- He was, as a hawk set up the behind the passes for scores poor play- ch caused play all for opportuni· HBI .405 14 .381 11 .356 7 3 .286 6 .286 5 .270 11 8 2 ~ 2 1 71 .190 29 E.lt ERA 12 2.04 9 2.62 2 1.42 23 2.13 68 6.58 Point~ 57 32 25 13 9 21 8 3 2 10 4 2 2 2 185 12() Is Again1.t 48 31 79 113 1'hne 85 min. 72 min. urs: with 'l Athlete of Year Page 4 Vc>l. 97 - No. 32 Committee Discipline And More Concordy Before AC C Come By NEILS. KRAMER Wednesday, the All-College Council took the sting out of its motion cen- , suring the Richard Patterson, J•r., the editor of Cont!ordiensis, and unani- mously endorsed the Student-Faculty Discipline Committee's standing on the treatment of students who ph~­ sically obstruct, in President Martin's words, \the freedom of people to discourse and meet each other with- out interruption.\ The Discipline Committee also ask- ed the ACC to endorse its statement on academic honesty, which said that ''any student found cheating on any examination will be suspended from the College.\ In rescmding its action of May 1, requestmg an editorial apology and statmg that \should a sim1~ar situa- ation ar1se agam the ACC would ask that the editor res1gn,\ the Council reaffirmed its op1mon that the article by Alan Ziegler was in bad taste, and that Patterson had exercised bad judg- ment in printing it. Turning to the larger issue of the how the paper's publisher, the Board of Trustees m1ght exerCise some con- trol on its editor, the ACC asked Rusty lVlanker, president-elect of the student body to assemble a committee to <letermme what should be the tenor of the student newspaper and who shou1d be the campus agent of the Trustees in the1r ro1e as publisher of the newspaper. The ACC agreed with the Discipline ated li the protest resu1ts m physical test on th1s campus w111 not be toler- Committee that demonstratwns of pro- obstructwn. The ieelmg of the Coun- cil was that the academic freedom of a commumty of intellectuals should not be defiled by the intro- ductiOn of violence on to the campus. The Discipline Committee was also upset over the recent outbreak of academic dishonesty, espeCially the case of two students who broke into \ a professor's files at night and altered their examinations. Prof. Gado asked that a statment on academic honesty include a refer- ence to plagar1sm. Pres1dent Martin said that he thought that dishonesty in writing papers should be treated in Freshman Commons. Ctting the prevalence of ignorance regarding aca- demic honesty in high school, he said that the issue is an educative one, not something demanding immediate punishment. In order to allow for exception cases, the ACC changed the wording to say that any student found guilty of cheating would \normally\ be sus· pended. Founded at Union College 1877 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, FRIDAY, MAY 24, 1968 Faculty Departures Page 3 PRICE 15 CENTS 700 Students Sign Maintenance Petition Conception of the t:~ew Science and Engineering Center, now under construction. Election Deadlocks; Concordy Compromise Agreement Reached Elections for the new Editor of Con· cordiensis ended in a deadlock last night. Jeff Browne and D. Peter Drat- man running as Co-Editors, and Neil Kramer each received 19 votes. Browne, A junior and president of Delta Chi, has been News Editor of Concordiensis since January. Drotman has sevred as Business Manager, and .Kramer as Managing Editor for the same term. By BlLL COLUCCI The mandatory maintenance re· quirement for graduation, long a mat- ter of dissention, came under fire yesterday by a petition circulated among students cailing for immediate action by the administration. Response to the petition was ro· bust, nearly 700 signatures, and may be considered as expressing an opin· ion held by a significant portion of the student body. The petition, drafted and circula- ted by three freshmen, Tom Hord, Al Moodie, and Larry Sykes, was an at- tempt to formalize into a functional device long dormant student dissen- tion with the maintenance require- ment for graduation. Receiving Dean Olton's authoriza- tion, the petition was meant as a show of strength, and not as an antagon- istic measure. Those circulating the petition further emphasized that it does not represent the effort of a committee or movemnt of any variety, but rather, should b.e accepted as a voice of the student body. Calling for immediate action be- fore term's end, the petition states that \we will support the extreme of a boycott of the maintenance list, if no other immediate action is taken by the administration.\ Again the petition's originators interjected that the boycott is a last resort, and that it would be a boycott only of the attendance list. The petition, which has the sup· port of several prominent student leaders, is almost evenly divided be· tween fraternity and non-fraternity support. Already backed by WRUC and Con- cordiensis, the petition will be pre· sented to all the major student or- ganizations for their support. Should support for the petition materialize, it could, as conjectured by Dean Ol- ton, provide a working wedge for the removal of the maintenance credit re- quirement for graduation. Browne, Drotman and Kramer met immediately after the results of the election were announced and worked out a compromise solution which pro- vides that Drotman and Browne will serve as Co-Editors through the end of the Winter term next year. Kramer who now plans to attend Concord College, West Virginia, as part of his Junior year Comp. Ed. program would take over as Editor for the next two terms, through the end of the fall term, 1970. Closing The Goals Gap This is the first time that such a situation has occurred and the new rules for elections, adopted in Jan- uary, do not provide for action in event of a tie. A vote of the staff, a majority of whom remained in the editorial office after the vote was announced, ap· proved the compromise solution. The out-going Editor, Richard Pat- terson Jr. has resigned to spend next year at the London School of Eco· nomics in London. Javits Here Monday Jacob Javits, Senior Senator from New York, will speak to Union Col· lege students Monday at 4:30 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. His spur of the moment visit to Union will be spon- sored by The Union College Republi- c::;::3. Delivering a speech on current af· fairs, Javits will also entertain ques- tions from the floor. Javits will arrive at Albany Air- port and then will come to Union. After his speech and a television in- terview he will meet with Schenec- tady Republican leaders and will con- clude his visit at a dinner with a Catholic Community organization. A U.S. Senator from New York since 1957, Javits is the ranking sen- ator on the joint economic committee and has also served on labor and public welfare and judiciary commit· tees among others. John Welling, a Union freshman, is organizing the Youth For Javits movement on campus. Interested stu· dents will be able to join the organi- zation after the gathering. When President Nott first admitted fraternities to Union, he was flouting the Establishment since they had been ruled inadmissible on other campuses and their members often expelled. Now it is fraternities that represent the Establishment, and presidents .of new colleges often make a point of being as radical as Nott by excluding them. The reversal suggests several possi- bilities: fraternities have changed or the times have changed or radicalism wears a different coat. Probably all three are true. In any event, fra- ternities are certainly on the defen- sive today, and that may be the best thing that can happen to them. Their defensiveness 150 years ago made them develop activities that justified their existence, and few who know the history of fraternities can doubt that they exerted a beneficial influ· ence for decades on campuses that were intellectually and culturally sterile. As academic programs improved and as students became more scholar- ly, fraternities - already suffering the common effect of mature organi- zations, a supersession of form over substance - began to lose their dis- tinctive function. Most gradually be- came purely social clubs for whom the principal justification was toler- able company, private quarters, and extensive partying. Some imitated the clubs of their elders by c~tegorical exclusions: no Jews, no Gentiles, no Negroes, no Orientals, no one not descended from First Families, and so on. Some made 342 Write-ins For Manker Defeat Goldstein~ Despite an overwhelming write,in campaign with the active support of several campus leaders, Rusty Man- ker said Thursday \1 didn't think I was going to win\ the election for student body president. He was surprised that nearly 38 per cent of Union's voters Tuesday dumped the two student council-en- dorsed candidates and wrote in his name. Rundell a major business of pledging athletes or politicians. A few developed, and perhaps earned, national reputations for general disorderliness and rowdy- ism. If you take the trouble to read The Union I Remember (by Charles Waldron, our former Alumni Secre- tary), you will find a good account of the pleasant side of that social commitment: fraternity groups singing college songs beneath fair damsels' windows, entertaining the elegant lad- ies of the city at tea, turning out in separate groups to cheer on athletic teams, and the like. If you listen to some of the older alumni talk in unguarded moments, you will learn of pitched battles, ruth- less hazing, bathtub gin, and surrept- itious visits to nearby places of ill repute. Much of the gentility has disap- peared in the past three of four decades as it has largely disappeared from other aspects of American life; and the' coarseness has become less furtive but also, in some respects, less pervasive, perhaps. becaus~ as it became more open its unattractiveness repelled more than 1t enticed. ., At Union today I would say that fraternities are not so bad as they are painted; but I would also say that they are not good enough to survive unless they set about becoming better than they are. The signs are clear enough: many men don't want to join; some who do say franldy that they join only in order to get in on the parties; every year some first-rate men disaffiliate and turn to a way of life they consider more satisfying. As I said in my first convocation talk here three years ago, if fraternities die at Nnion, it will be by suicide rather than murder. Continued on Page 3 60 Discuss Blacks He was also surprised that the electorate voted for Manker on his slogan \experience does count\ while voting nearly two-to-one in favor of Jim Stillman, a new-comer to campus politics, over student council secre- tary Bob Burwick. Manker tallied 342 of the 904 votes cast, to defeat freshman candidate Edgar Rundell with 282 votes and senior Mark Goldstein with 280. Class Gift \' By ALAN COHEN 1 There was a meeting in Nott Mem· orial on Wednesday afternoon of about 60 students concerned about the lack of Black students at Union College. Fitz Turner called the meeting to order and presented' Steven Cole who read a statement prepared by the Black Alliance. The statement attempted to answer the question \What can I do?\ raised often by white people concerned with the problems of Blacks. The state- ment also said that whites must at- tempt to understand the black's sit- uation and base his action on \What does the Blackman want me to do?\ The reality of the problem can be ~- seen through the presence of no Black students in the class of 1972. There are still hopes among the members of the Alliance that there will be some admitted. The Alliance, with the agreement of the Administration, will submit a list of qualified Black stu- dents for admissions in September. For future years, further programs will be initiated or expanded. This includes the enrollment of Upward Bound students, the initiation of Black literature courses, and recruiting trips to high schools by the admissions de- partment and members of the Black Alliance. The Alliance hoped for a commit· ment from white students to help them reach the goal of a college which is more congruent with reality. The students left the meeting with an appeal from Fitz Turner that the students go talk to other students and make the entire college commun· ity aware of the goals of the Black Alliance. Manker said that he decided to run a write-in campaign immediately after the council decided not to endorse him. Stillman re(!eived 542 votes for vice· president to defeat Burwick with 280, while Daniel Aronzon tallied 462 for secretary to Al Levi's 371. Among the problems Manker in- tends to deal with are changes in the maintenance system, the weekend con- cert situation, the formation of an Atl\College Academic Council and defi- nitions of student council position on such issues as press freedom. He said he is \disappointed with the petition going around calling for a strike of the maintenance system. It won't be effective to call a strike,\ he added, \The timing is bad.\ Man· ker suggested that the maintenance system should be handled through the Russell Manker, newly elected Student Body President. · proper channels of student govern- ment. The president-elect expects the ACAC to receive first priority when the council returns to school in the fall. \We expect to start immediately on the grading system and the issue of academic honesty,\ he said. Manker said he will remain active in the delphics and gatesmen now that he has gained the top student executive position in the school,. but will drop several other activities, in· cluding his position as Union's social chairman. Steve Ritterbush, Senior Class President, has announced the Class of '68's Senior Class Gift. Working through the Parents' and Alumni Committee for the Beautification of the Campus, the out-going class will donate $950 towards marble benches to grace the Schaefer Library Gar- -\-dens. An additional $500 will be given to the school's Scholarship Fund to help underprivileged students meet expenses. Funds for the gift were gathered from class dues and the Class of '68's remarkable string of successful concerts. Ritterbush added that the class will also give the two column speakers that they brought in their first year to provide sound for the concerts.

2 Friday, May 24, 1 968 Letters to the Editor Oregon: Crusade Continues Ungenerous To the Editor: 'There's is nothing that more betrays a base ungen-erous sp1rit tnan the g1vmg ot secret stabs to a man:s reputatiOn.\ The obser- vatlOn was made by Joseph Add- ison in 1711, but the sentlments contained in the obse.rvatwn can well stand for my own. I refer, of course, to the \Name With- held by Request\ letter in the Tuesday, May 21, issue of Con· cordy. The sick and sordid business of personal vilification and char- acter assal:isit~ation is always to be depl<Jred. What disturbs me deeply in this particular instan- ce is the irresponsibiLity of the campus newspaper. As I have learned the facts, the letter in question arried at the C\ncordy office bearing a Schenectad;y post mark and, except for un- identifiable initials, was un- signed. I believe that the policy of the paper is to withhold names upon request but that let- ters must be properly identified and signed. I fail to see on what responsible grounds, either moral or professional, the editor chose to print the letter and thereby become an accessory to an anonymous and cowardly act of calumny. I realize that it is impossible to win an argument with a news- paper, but I care strongly enough about my personal repu- tation and the responsible role of the campus newsp~per to risk yet further embarrassment by responding as I have. Micbat!l Sbinagel Chairman, Dept. of English Malicious To the Editor: Your last issue contained an unsigned letter filled with re- marks which I presume were in- tended to be uncomplimentary to Professor Shinagel. Any letter worth sending is worth signing, particularly if it is tinged with malice_ I have always been taught to regard anonymous letters as unspeak- ably invertebrate, and they re- flect little credit on the news- paper which lends them the SP!-!rious dignity conferred by prmt. Joseph B. Board, Jr. Chairman~ Dept. of Politi«!al Science l'uloll:-ohnl 'l••t..·~·ld~S ttrH.l Fnllays tlur- lng 111~ gc:hnot year by the StudPnt 13ody uf t 'mon ColJpge, Schenectndy, ':';, Y. !'o:.illonnl ,\UvertJslng ReJll'est•n. !aliVP: :'\ntlon.tl Edu<'ntional Adveor- tislng ~~-r \I( t.• Jn~o:.. .1 CO LPXm;;ton A\\P. S Y (, I.~dtlorin 1 l)ffit e-. D1·on- Vindictive To the Editor: Your last issue contained a vindictive and insipid letter by an anonymous author. Good taste and common sense should have prevented its publication: it was not directed against Pro- fessor Shinagel's views but against his personality. Before you completely lose your Sense of balance and pro- portion, keep in mind that Pro- fessor Shinagel is not only the proponent of the 12-point grad- ing system -- he is also a distinguished teacher and author of a recently published mono- graph by Harvard University Press. Charles Gati, Associate Professor Dept. of Political Science Building To the Editor: Some students have expressed concern about priorities in the financial planning of the Col- lege, specifically about the huge outlay that will be necessary for the Science?Engineering Center and the smaller, but stiU sub- stantial, expenditure for land- scaping of the central campus. Briefly the situation is this: Planning for a College Center and much-needed new space for the sciences and engineering be· gan nearly three years ago. When it was determined that a conversion of Carnegie Hall with a large addition would provide the ideal site for a College Cen- ter, the necessary evacuation of that building moved the Science- Engineering Center into first place. The new quarters pro- vided by Fox and Davidson Houses and the continuous use of Hale House for dining prom- ised adequate, if not thoroughly satisfactory, accommodations un- til the Center could be built. Application was then made and approved for a federal grant for the Science-Engineering Center, and a contract was sign- ed for its construction a few weeks ago. Over the next two and a half years new construc- tion and renovation will proceed step by step. If money is avail- able by the time Carnegie is evacuated, construction on a College Center will then begin and should be complete in a year from the time of its start. ner Hnuse. L'nlon Cull~;:~ge, l'uUllf..'atiOII Office. Sehenectady Printing Com- JHiny. ~0::! Bt~oad\\•ay. Entered in the Sc-henectauy Post Office as Secon<l <:tnss !\lull. Subserlption 15c a copy: ,:, a ~·ear llel1verPd an:.·where in tP~ I nited Stn 1P~ Hl<'l!.\1(1> 1: 1'.\TTI:t~S():'-:, Jr.. D. PE'rF.R [) ltOT~IA :>: '6g '7fj ...... 346·8614 ..... l~ol<tur-in-Chief ~1·:1!. >\. l<HA~II>:Jt ';u JEFF llROW:-.:E 'G3 GARY 1'1:.1.:\'(l...:T ·r;~1 STEVE F'OX '70 ............ .. RICHARD £1,\LAG!:R '69 .. JO<lr~PFT ,\ l\IA:-.:~ Jr.. ·,;~ Dick DanIel • <O Len Strnon ·ill HenrY Fein '<I Paul Farnham '70 ... 372-9730 ..... . ......... Business Manage, .. :146-8614 ...... _ ... _ .......... -- ... l'.Ianas-ing Editot· ... 3!6-9973.. .... . . ........... _ ..... News Editm 393-<841.. ........ ·-· ··-·········Sports Editor . ............ 346-30 19 ... _ .. _ .... -... -... _.._, ... Features Editot .. ·-· ....... ·----- .. -.. -- .. -· ·-·-···--·-·•_. .. Consultingo Edit<>\ ........ ······-··-·-················-··········--····Editor l!!merltu\ JUNIOR BOARD ..... ················-.. ··--......... _ .. _,_, ___ ....... PbotogravhY Editor .......... ········-·····Associate Sports Edito.r . .... . ..... -. ..................... Assistant Sports Ed·itor .................... _ ........ Assistant News Editor \Vtlliam HuzPr · il ............. Assistant Managing Editor Paul AndrPWH '71 ................ Assistant Features Edttor 1\Ilke Swirslty '70 _ .... -·-·- .. -·----··· .. ··-.. ···-....... -.. -·.--.. -·--- ... ..National Advertising Manager St~phen Lill man • <O .... _ ··-·····-·· ......... _ ......... _ ......... -... -- .. ··--.. ·--... -Subscription Manager Fred Stern · 7 0 . . . . . . . ..... . ............................... Production Manager Cat!. Golrlsand '<0 ... ·-··-··········-···········-- ................. _ ..... -... ·-- .. ·--··-···Circulation Managet Rich(Hrl Lewis '70 ...... . . . .... ·--- .......................... Local Advertising Manager Lawrenc• Rothblum • 71) ................................................ Distribution Manager Len Kagan • 6~·-·············- ..... -·····-····-·--.. --·········--·-··-·······-·--··--····-····-Fraternities Editoy Denis ~~~·>\PI' 'IO ................ Distribution ~tanager Paul Grayson '6 8 ..... .. . ········-···· ........................... _ ..... -......... -- .... Paper Bo:y Paul GPrlu=•r ·~~ ................................... Assistant Paper Bo31 STAFF l\IE!IffiE!RS !\'!;;\\'~.. AI nnrtnPr. John Anes.Cal'! Dietz, Lloyd Wolkenfeld. Alan :\'11•11. ~tP\tP ('fJifl. ).JikP Crowley, Bill Colucci. SPORT:-; ... . .J'ly Blitzman. Pete Hathaway, John Denefrio, lllitte Reger FEATriU;;.H ... . ....................................... AI Cohen, Peter Wein!l'old 8CSI:-.'ES\ . _ ... Charles Hogan, Jeff Bim, Roy Karlin, Jerry Levine, Pat White, Ed Tessler Old Dutch Restaurant OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK A Touch of Holland in Schenectady Excellent Food - Moderate Prices 10% DISCOUNT FOR ALL UNION STUDENTS 1617 Union St. Phone 374.;5no The landscaping in the center of tne caHl.IJU::i 11:1 !Jaf't ol a ten· yea1· vn>~l·<un a~:~.moL·ueu by tne noaru or u ust~es SLX yeat·s ago to lffi:J:Jrove tne pnys1ea1 sur- rounumgs m wn1cn we aH uve. AS1ue ln:lm the gat maue tnis year by tne f'arents' · .1! und on 1'S owH mtttauve, a gut prom- tsea oy tne ;:,en1or ~.,.;mss, and one gut nom a xratermty, the enure exven.m.ture comes 1rom a spec1a1 1 una hel<:t oy the '!TU:;Lees rrom whtch the mcome 1s spem; accoramg to tne wishes or we agen.t or tne ongmal uonor. The pr:mc1pa1 remams m- tact, ana tne mc~me cannot oe useu wr any purvose otner than Ute one anuua1:1y designatea. ·1ms year tne agent provosed compwtLOll 01 the central lana- scaplllg m one year l>Y use of uus wnd rather tnan the swwer ana Hwre exvens1ve process or stretchtng tne work over the remammg years 01 the program or lmpnilvement lllltiatect by the Trustees 1n U.lti~. \WIth ram at the ngnt time and consH:terate treatruent, the area shoUld be reaay wr an outaoor Commen- cement m H.lt:il:.l l barrmg ram at tne wrong tlme then!). Well betore that time and wng atter, we sna11 ru.l have reason to be pleased by the natural beauty that w11l nave been added to a tme set of bu1ldmgs. On other matters, the problem of pr10r1ty is constantly betore the admmistratwn and the 'l'rustees: how much more ±or salanes, of non-professional as well as professional people? how much more for scholarships? for teachmg equtpment? !or the Li- brary coHectton and its services? for athletics? for fledgling en- terprise, curricular and non-cur- ncular, that need support? Bud- get-making goes on almost con· tmuously through the year; long- range plannmg Is more a matter of annual revtsion and projec- tion. Both require, and get, broad consultatiOn and expert advice; both take a great deal of time; and both are funda- mentally a matter of settling priorities in the light of resour- ces available. Harold C. Martin President Intramurals- Independents: The independents have shown that they can compete on a bet- ter than even basis with the fraternities in intramural ath· letics, and this is as it should be. However, this success will not occur unless there is some- one to do the considerable work involved in organizing and mo- bilizing the independents into a competitive force for the sports of football, badminton, volleyball, basketball, handball, bowling, track, swimming, and softball. I would like to pass on what information I have to anyone interested in helping to organize competition in any of the above sports~ I would like to ask that anyone who desires to give some effort to organiz· ing any independent intramural team during next year please come and see me during the next week. Pete Hathaway 253 Fox House Consulting Edito1· Richard Bataug,· IS worJUng ,on the na- tionaL statf ot lVJct:art'lly for l'rtstrtent m Oregon~ anrt Will contmue on to t;ruitoi,nia after tnc 1'1.ay 2g primary. Portland, Oregon - Portland heaaquaners tor Senator Eu- gene lVlCGarthy has become a ra11ymg ;!)Olllt wr senior c1t1zens, housewives, union members, disc JOCKeys, mall trom soldiers in viet Nam and, of course, students. ln a campaign often called a \ch1ldrens crusadeP, McCarthy supporters in fact represent a d1verse background of youth and the more elderly, black and wh1te, poor and .poorer. titudents are pouring into the empty old baroque building in downtown Portland, which was once the headquarters for the Benevolent and Protective Order of Etks. On the second floor is the mass of confusion and jangl- ling telephones of the S t a t e Room. Upstairs are the head- quarters for the Po:ntland area, containing almost 50o/o of the state's democrats. Gllarded Optimism The mood 1s one ot guarded opt1m1sm~ polls snowmg :1\..en- neay aneaa. by bare .percentage pomts wnn a large numl>er of uuu~::c~Ut:U::i. .l llt: L.Cel,ug lS li Kennedy can be beaten here he wul lose in Cautorma and lV!cCarthy can go to the conven- tiOn as the peace candidate. Other hopes nde on a conven- tion dea<1.1ock and lVlcCarthy as a compromise candidate of the machme backed Humphrey and Kennedy. FmanciaB.y the organization is ailmg and every student and staff member is asked to write home and to friends for money. Every report of large sums of wunt:y b~1ng rece1veu IS gt·ee·ceei to disbelief and hopefull cheers. The atmosphere is less hope- full and less organized in ihe field. With such a large part of the population around Port- land thts area is receiving pri- ority in staff, expenses and stu- dent volunteers. All of the storefronts in the area are staff. ed by veterans of the Indiana and Nebraska primary. And yet these organizers are being strap- ped by a lack of funds and stu- dent volunteers. Many factors are working to oppose tile use of student volun- teers that was so successful in New Hampshire, Wisconsin and Indiana. The schools in the Far West, unlike those in the Mid- west and East are smaller and less organized. Many schools have fi11ished, making large numbers of students hard to find and others are starting final exams, leaving few students free to take a weekend off for the exhausting campaign work. Ron Greeney, from Schenectady, was coordinating the efforts of re- cruiting and deployment in Se- attle and reported it a tiring task of raising student interest. In some cases he found direct sabotage by Kennedy people, although he was reluctant to discuss the issue. The Machine T h e cities o f Eugene and Salem, the second and third largest in Oregon, have five or HAPPINESS IS GRADUATION BEST OF LUCK TO THE CLASS OF 1968 4 24 STATE STREET SCHENECTADY, N. Y. six national staff members to cooraulate wnat J.S onl:)n a spot- ty !U..:d• tlll;;cUl•.t.<l L•OH. .lll<= '-~• · ies, and Ute smaller areas, na-v.e resorced -to high school s~mors and. local teaeners ana towns- people tor canvassmg ana lea·I- lettmg. W hlle lVIcCarth.y got as far as W1sconsm without maJor ma- chme support he has 1t now. Enter the \Uene lVlachme\ a mm1bus converted to a portable store11·ont to bnng the campatgn of the \people's maH\ to even more of the people in the re- mote, rural areas ,of the state. In Oregon there are seven such buses, eqmpped with Mc- L-al tny 'iJO<>ter~ H:uuvaign llter<t- ture, sound eq_uipment, and cookies. lVIary !l$eth McCarthy, 20, the Senator's niece and a veteran driver of the \Gene lY.I:a- chine\ provides 'the spark and vitality of the \machine.\ If education is one goal, getting on the bandwag()n and enter- tainment are tlle others. The campaigners have set their sight on every horse show, auctw,n and smal1 town fair they can find. With roughly 90% of the state's population in Portland and the narrow valley running along western Oregon more ex(J- tic means have :been devised to contact voters ,in the western pa1 t of the state: an a1rmt ill light planes is used to cover the vast distances. One congres-· sional district is larger than any state east of Mississippi. John Poirier, a student from Indiana, is coordinating the work of pil· lots and owners. \In Indiana they asked if I would mind canvassing from a light plane and it was great . .All of a sudden I've been grounded to coordin- ate this.\ At last count he had between 6 and a dozen planes flying daily, towing banners and providing transportation for stu. dents to the rural areas. Professionals No longer can McCarthy claim to be backed only by students, although adults did vote for him. Leadirig the catnpaign in Ore- gon is Arthur Herzog, a free lance writer from New York and his assistant, Michael Mills, a student at Reed College in 0 r e g o n (and originally from Rochester). Others holding higti posruens m tne campmgn statf are 1awyers and gr<touaue stu- aents on leave J:rom work or tneir scnool. :::iue Thomases, the ornee manager and stait co- ordmator, IS workmg on her Ph.JJ. m Rena·issance f.!istory at \Jotumbia. .Haryana Henkart, director of spec1a1 projects such as the numou.ses and secondary .speak· ers has 1-Imshed the research, \nut not the Wtitmg,\ for her doctoral d1ssertatwn m biology at Harvard l!.Jmversity. Barry Mtlow, a New York City pov- erty lawyer acts as the staff consultant on legal questions. Anotner New YorK City lawyer, Stan Wagner, heads the advance and scb.edming office, responsi- ble for all preparations for the Senatar's visit. W ntle the larger problems of the day occupy these at the state headquarters bnef remind- ers are a1ways ev1dent that there is au outsl<le world w1th real problems. One of those prob- lems, babys1tters, was solved Wlth stuctent power creating a grouncl 1loor play area. A day hl.u~e1y, h.dnno::u oy women vol- ttnteers, frees the rest of the housew1ves for other work. The muy requirement for admission -\no war toys.\ Contribution Contributions for McCarthy are as varied as the backgrounds of his supporters. One d1sc jock- ey in Coos Bay paid for $150 worth of radio time for the campaign. A soldier in VietNam sent a letter expressing his con- cern with the war and enclosed one entire pay checl~ :for the campaign. Housewives provide sandwiches and transportation. Oregonians, eratic and unpre- dictable as they are tend to be independent, elect1ng the most dovish Senators, Morse and Hat- field, on either side of the Sen- ate. Wayne Morse is fighting for renomination against Rober Duncan, an old-time hawk who has moderated slightly and is aligned with Robert Kennedy. 'I'he big questions are whether Morse's campaign will help or hinder McCarthy and the affect of large numbers of radio and 'I'V spots for Kennedy compared to McCarthy's personal efforts. Krech Exp:lores Chemistry of Mi:nd David C. Krech, experimental psychologist from Berkeley, spoke on the \Chemistry of the Brain'' at convocation yesterday morning in Memorial Chapel. Krech opened his lecture by dismissing all uninterested students forced to co me to the compulsory lecture, describing h'mself as \a bearded disestab- lishmentarianist }Jrofessor from Berkeley.\ Krech explained the work he and his colleagues arc und the cr untry are doing in brain bio- chemistry by <!iting several crucial experiments. In one, ;ats of the same litter were raised, some with and some without toys and trainers. The rats with training were found, 80 days later, to have psysiolo- gically heavier brains, better supplied with blood vessels. In another experiment, rats were infected with a substance that caused short-term memo.ry to be unimpaired, but eliminated long-term memory_ \One scientist at the Univer- sity of Michigan taught planaria a response and then ground up and fed these planaria to other planaria, who then reacted to the same stimulus with the same response_ Another worker at U.C.L.A. did the same thing with infections of brain extract from one rat to another_ From these experiments a model of the memory mechan- ism emerged as follows: during an experience a reverberatory r.rocess starts that sometimes causes permanent structural and chemical changes. These chemical changes sometimes wear out, but the structure is . !eft, to be prodded into life, · like a curcuit with a dead bat- tery_ The above experiments fore- tell of a great deal of power to he released with this knowl- edge, t:'Ower which rr:ust bCJ guided by a system of morals and goa:s or it, like the bomb, blindly ceded by scientists to the government, may cause Or- wellian and Huxlian nightmare futures. DAMBROSE CLEANERS SHIRTS !l3c - SUI15 1.00- PANTS SOc Student Discount on All Dry Cleaning 1517 Van Vre~nken Avenue Tire PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP 262 Saratoga Road MAYFAIR SHO PPIN.G CENTER AI lhe Sign of lhe Red Neon .Pipe TUES. thru SAT. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. also THURS. and FRI.: 7 to 9 PM SCOTIA, N. Y. Phone 399-1630 FR 4-5193 l. G. BALFOUR CO. CARL SORE:NSEN BADGES • RINGS • fAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY • PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - KEYS MEDALS • TROPHIES Write or Call fraternity Jewelers 729 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, N.Y. '13210 ... : l. • Friday, ~ The Un will take • 'year as ;)0 . return.mg 1. s1ues tlli tlt thts numi:H more uyna1 rtem:a, wno we J:l<ll:i~ Lv. or .t.ngH::,n, watu UiS u •mg naa h. or CauEotr t\SSi:SLi:tllt 1 ;:,c1ence ar 1 ~Ot t.fie U[ V1s1tmg n Polltlcat bi ~1ty OI :1\.: 1 el\.ansas. _ 1n an 1 that lJmor w start :te ··umon 1 1 want to : neither d taugh~ her sal<l he f< ~ cal1y attra and. that tl h1m the o some ot n mto activ< (teacher. But he : for change 0 uve\ at l despite Ur pear a lib• \TeaHy co l He satd th 1al hurts\ the Establ not ··take ~ lum offen regard to canon. Comp E pretends ,, noted that CUSSIOn Of volves thE ISSUes.\ ,, Renza 1 \engender Ed progr~ \kill a c t ''loses its falls short issues. ~' \Comp eating ra ---- Conti:JJ FortunB ation is c and it is alter soci< ly than there is VI Dean Olt · .. such an ' ·place- c than a cle but the s All that for the : human be tive as in collective responsib cational e of them: uals~ That rr. \ self-indul mitment (the rece good exa values th: snobbery, calculatec each rr. central .g in the er with the College. they arE \' achievem short of the ultin \ narrowin ~oes f, · ~\ ·verythir , If I WE '-for closi -.with rus ::ause th get then :ernity li )e showt . , evidence ' }ntellectt .vholeson tive con ,being. • pledged j alone in still to b can he E

1968 higti statf stu- work or mases, the stait co- g on her fiistory at of h as the .speak- research, fo_r her m biology Barry City pov- the staff questions. lawyer, advance , responsi- ns for the of se at the ef remind- that there w1th real prob- solved a ea. A day vol- of the work. The admission McCarthy disc jock- for $150 for the VietNam his con- enclosed for the provide portation. unpre- to be the most e and Hat- the Sen- fighting Rober hawk who and is Kennedy. e whether help or the affect radio and compared al efforts. ground up a to other to the same worker at thing extract ther. riments a y mechan- during sometimes structural These sometimes is into life, · dead bat· fore- of power knowl- n:ust b~ of morals the bomb, to cause Or- nightmare CO. IES Ave. ~ • Friday, May 24, 1968 \Faculty Departures The Union ·College faculty will take on a new wok next 'year as i)@ protessors wu1 not oe returnmg ~or the tar! term. :tie- SlUes thL ee proressors emenu, thts numuer w111 mcrude ergnL •·'·)Jrou· ~s:s<ur on sabbatrcar leaves, rour on 1eaves or aosence anu w rac.:u..ty ut~::maers who wrh oe mstruc~;mg e1sewhere. A·mong those who wi:)ll be c,n other carupuses are LOUiS Renza anu . li. uau, two or u.mon s U.YIH!llUC 1at:UHY nli:!Ill0€l\S. 1itm:a, wno nas served at ·Umon we J:.oal:il Lwo years as 1nsuucwr or t.ngH::,n, wrH be worKing to- watu nts uoctorate whHe .teacn- •mg naa tllae at the umvers'l't.Y or CauEol nra m 1rvme. LTau, t\SSi::iLant r1 oa:ssor ot Pohucat ;:,c1ence anu ltVe-year member , ~ot tne umon raculty, wul be VlSitmg nSSOClate J:'totessor 01 Pollt1ca1 ;,cu::nce at the l.Jmver- ~ltY or Kansas m Lawrence, l\.ansas. 1 e m an interview Renza said that ui:uon was a ··good place w start :teachmg.\ '\LJmon 1s not a school I would ! want to se~he down in, but netther au 1 regret havmg taugh~ here,\ he sau:i. Kenza saict he feu tnat Union bast- ~ cal1y attracts \good students;' and that the school had ottered him the opportumty to '\revise some ot n.y vasswe know1eage mto active Jmow1edge\ as a c teacher. Restrictive But he sa1d that \the feeling for change 1s UltimatelY restnc- 0 uve\ at Umon. He said that despite Umon·s attempts to ap- pear a liberal mst1tutwn 1t was \TeaHy conservat1ve at heart.\ l He said that because of '\fmanc- lal hurts\ and \pressure from the Establishment\ Umon cowd not ··take nsks·' on its currlCu- ~ Jum offenngs, particmarly with regard to Lomprehenswe Edu- cauon. Comp Ed, Renza said, \just pretends to be hberaJ.\ He •· noted that in Comp Ed the \dis- cussion of the issues merely in- volves the castration of those ISSUes.\ ,, Renza said that, instead of \engendermg crisis,\ the Comp Ed program merely suffices to \kill a crisis.\ It therefore 1 , ''loses its critical power\ and falls short of \opening up\ the issues. ~· \Comp Ed is a way of pla- cating rather than answermg the needs of stLtdents and teach- ~:\ s' to oe mvo1ved In the pro- ce::;s of educat1on, henza sa1d. .H.e aa.dect that the program 8nou1Cl provwe a means tor ~:>tuaents and teachers ··commg together and be1ng mvo1ved m tne xssues so t11ey coutd particl- vate lll the issues themselves.\ FaiLed But Renza said that he was '\ta:rKJng ideanst~caHy\ and U'tUn t \\CritlCJZe Un1on for lll· Jhatmg the Comp l!:ct program. \\tt JUSt ISn't What It COU10 be,\ he sa1d. Gatl said that he was \at- tracted by the apportuntty to worK W1W gradua~e stuaents · at the U mvers1ty 01 Kansas and by the \excel'lent ubrary col- 'ledlOn they have in my tield.'' he addea that he wanted to ··weigh the aavamages and dis- aa.vantages\ of unners1ty teach- Ing as opposed to college teach- ing . Credit Gati said that he had \en- joyed Wltnessmg the growth of lihe Pa11t1ca·J >::>cience Depart- ment\ durmg his fwe year ten- ure. 1vmch of the credit tor t!lJ.S expansiOn should be given to GatJ, who was pr1marily re- sponsib.e !or arawmg a number or po11t1caJ sctence protessors to llmon, including most re- centlY Rooert :s. l:lharlet. li-ati said that h~ was pleased to have Witnessed a '\new style m admrmstratwn\ since Presi- uent lVlartm·s arrival. He also sa1d he was ''pleased to see student interest and activism mcreasmg in the last few weeks.\ •·tt will be interesting to see if the students can ±ormulate their requests and whether they will be acted upon,\ he said. Wish Although he w11l be teaching at Lawrence, Gati said he d1d '\not wish to cut ties with Un- ion.\ He said that he would be teaching under a one-year appomtment and that the ··pos- s.blhty ex1sts, depending upon a number of factors, I will be back in 1969.\ Going Besides Renza and Gati, thir- teen other faculty members will be teaching elsewhere next year. Robert J. B:rungraber, As- sociate Professor of Civil En- gineering for the past two years at Union, who will be gomg to Buclmell University m Lewisburg, Penn., where he Revisited will become Chairman of the C1vll .l!:ngmeenng vepartment, h.SSrstam f'rotessor ut lnaus- tnal Admimstration Thomas !VI. Cascic, lVlelvm 11. Fme, three- year rnstructor m Botany who wHl be at Antioch next year; Counsetor to Students ana As- sociate Protessor o:t .Psychology Christopher l!'ned, who wlll end. an eleven-year stay at Umon by traveung to Fmland where he w111 taRe part m a trammg l>I'Ogram tor socia'l wor.Jters, vsycmatrists and psycholOgists m a program sponsored by the '1 herape1a l<'oundatwn; FrankHn Kneeater, Assistant to the Pres- Ident tor Externa'l Affaus; As- Sistant Protessor of Electncal l!;ngineermg Frank P. Kuhl, Jr; Instructor m MathematiCS Peter A. Lindstrom who after two years here has accepted a tac- u.ty pos1tion at •Genesee Com- rr.umty College in Batavia, N. x.; Yv alter Lowen, Professor of 1uechamcal Engmeenng; Don- atd Meeker, Instructor in Elec- trical Engmeermg; WilHam L. Menwether, Instructor in Drama and Director of 1'heater; Ke- vork Nahabedian, Assistant Pro- fessor of Chemistry for f1ve years who wtll serve as Chair- man of the Chemistry Depart- ment for SUNY at Geneseo, N. Y.; Stewart lVI. Robinson, As- sociate Professor of Mathema- tics and Thomas J. Powers, five- year Assistant Professor of Ma- thematics who is going to SUNY at Albany. Leaves On leaves of absence next year will be Joseph Board, Jr., Professor of Political Science; Damel A. Driscoll, Assistant \:'rofessor of Electrical Engi- neering and Henry Ferguson and Richard W. Henry, both As- sociate Professors of History. Those taking sabbatical leaves next year will include Professor of Bwchemical Genetics Henry lVL Butzel for half a year; Pro- fessor of History Manfred Jo- nas for half a year; Francis L. Lambert, Associate Professor of Psysiology and Biophysics; V. Ennis Pilcher, Associate Pro- fessor of Physics; Professor of Chemistry Howard E. Sheffer; Edwin K. Tolan, Professor of !!hl!osophy, and Professor of En- gineering Drawing Clinton E. Williams. Besides the above mentioned, Wilford H. Ketz, Professor of Physical Education will 'be on sabbatical leave for the first term next fall. --------------·-------------------------------------------------------------- Martin on Continued from Page 1 Fortunately, a college gener- ation is only four years long, and it is therefore possible to alter social patterns more swift- ly than in society-at-large if there is will for alteration. Like Dean Olton, 1 see signs that · . such an alteration is taking '·'place - only signs so far rather than a clear direction of change, but the signs are .encouraging. All that is really required is for the members, individually human beings as able and attrac- tive as independents, to become collectively as responsive and responsible about the whole edu• cational experience here as most of them already are as individ- uals~ That means less institutional · .. self-indulgence and more com- mitment to worthwhile pursuits (the recent Arts Weekend is a good example), a sensitivity to values that rules out even covert snobbery, a development of tone calculated to make the best of e a c h man's possibilities. The central goals of fraternity life, in the end, should be identical with the central goals of the College. On paper that is what they are now. While human , achievement generally falls Closing the Goals Gap The next step - one that some tratermues here are now l:aKJ.ng - wouHl lle to work as naL·u at c1·eattng a ncn and vaned lite m tnc:: chapter as at muuc.~ng rresum~n to JOin lt. ·~n<~t wouru mvoive lrequent ana ve1·sLSt~m. ratner tnan ::>vvramc, J:!Wgt.·am-viann.~ng Lor tue nouse .nseti. 1ne numan resources nere - VlSltors, racun;y mem- oers, students tnemseiVes - are pienurul, ana. au 1nat IS needed .1S some euort, some Imagma- twn, a n d enuugn purposem!- ness to nde out Ulsappomtments and mmuerence untu a new mode estai>Hsnes itself. Finally, tne fratermt1es should move to support tne actiVIties on camp· us tnat can most contnbut<:) to manng umon a really rich en- VIronment for the years men spend here: the courses that are known to be especially stimu- lating as well ;~s demandmg, the lectures and concerts, pub- lications and radio, the theatre and film-making, the special~ interest clubs, team sports, de- bate, the glee club and instru- mental groups. A collec~iye C!Jn· science about both partlc1pat10n and appreciation would go far to restore to fraternities the respect they have in some meas- ure forfeited in the past few decades. Faculty readily contribute time on request in areas where their special competence can be useful. That is about all that outsiders can do, and what hap· pens when that much is done depends almost entirely on the interest and ambition of the fraternities themselves. Since sixty percent of the undergrad- uates at Union belong to fra· ternities, there is obviously plen· tiful human resource to accom· plish a great deal, and it is my belief that, given the will to work at it, fraternities can help bring about much desirable change here in a very short time. Schenectady Printing Co., Inc. 502 Broadway 377-8838 Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be Hazardous To Your Health By PETER WEINGOLD A recent survey of colleges and unt·versities in the North- east has pointed up wide dif- ferences in the attitudes of the administrations of these schools towards drug use and traffic on campus. The Dean of Students at Am- herst, who is solely responsi:ble for disciplinary action taken against students there for drug offenses, said, that \it is the college's sincere hope that the students wiU not use drugs. If they find that they cannot re- frain, they are advised to con- sult the information agencies.\ Unfortunately for the 'heads\ on campus, t)le Dean's message didn't stop tltere. He went on to say that \the college will take disciplinary steps; if nec- essary, dismissal.\ Amherst's policy really seems to be enlightened when com- pared to that of Vassar, Wes- leyan and others. Of the twelve schools surveyed these have the most medieval policies toward drug users. Vassar's drug discipline is meted out, surprisingly, in view of its severity, by a student- faculty committee, together with the Dean of Students. Any Vassar girl caught using drugs in any illegal fashhm cannot depend on the college (alma mater?) for protection from the civil laws. \Offenders run the risk of discipline. We will co- operate fully with civil authori- ties.\ . A student-faculty comm1ttee on druos at Wesleyan, that bas- tion of liberal thinking, came out with the policy that they •·uRequivocally disapprove of drugs.\ In addition \studen~s should be responsible for their own aRd others' behavior.\ Groping in Darkness Several schools, notable the State University system school_s, Princeton Haverford, and Wtl- liams hav'e policies lying some- where between enlightenment and darkness. It is generally viewed by these schools that drug use is evil, illegal, and immoral and must be stopped. The means of dealing with the problem ranges fron: ~mJ?edi­ ate dismissal to dlSCiphnary probation. Perhaps the most realistic policy is that formulated by the Dean of Students at Rutgers University. Students at Rutgers accused of using any psycotoxic drugs wiH be counseled accord- ingly. \Contin:ued n;isuse a1fd abuse will sub.]ect him to dis- ciplinary action consisting of disciplinary probation, suspen- sion, or dismissal.\ Here at Union the college has formed a drug committee, but as yet there exists no clearly defined drug policy. BIC Fine Point 25' ft{;lt¥} Blither Despite fiendish torture dynamic BiC Duo writes first time, every time! Four professors will be describing each year's Comp. Ed. ,program at a meeting Monday at 4,30 p.m. in SS 016. Prof, Ntal Allen and Prof. Willard Roth will discuss the sophomore options, Prof. Wil· liom 8enne1t will talk on the junior pro- gram, and Prof. De~vid Reese will describe the senior courses. At the fino I concert of the Northeastern New York Philharmonic next Tuesday in Memorial Chapel. Decn Theodore Lockwood, who with Prof. Edgar Curtis was largely responsible for the development of the Philharmonic as pert of Union's arts pro~ gram, will ba honored by a resolution from the student body. Students who want to show thetr gratitude to and admiration for Dean Lockwood should attend. There will be on imp-ortant meeting of the Philomathean SDciety next Tuesday ot 7 p.m. in the Phi Beta Kappa room of the library. A Union College Community Service and Rally will b\ held in Memorial Chapel Sunday at 12:JO p.m. in support of the Martin luther King Poor People's Cam~ paign in Washington, D. C. The service is sponsored by the Schenectady Temporary Committee ·on the Poor People's Campaign at 271 State St., which will send a dele· gation to Washington for the march on June 19. Contributions can be made ot the service- or sent to the above address. Anyone Interested- in working on the staff of the 1972 Freshman Record should con- tact John Sarris cl 346-9272 as soon as POS5ible. DIAMANTE'S Cooked Italian Food in Our Comiortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nett Street Open Daily 1 0 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to 1 A.M. Enjoy Our Fine Home FERRO PHARMACY 575 Nott Street Schenectady, N. Y. Fit 7-0510 FOUNTAIN SERVICE One blocl< from Brownell Gate The Circle K Club will meet this Sunday night at 8 p.m. in Hale House Student Lounge. Elections for next year's officers will be held. Afterwards .. c representative- from Upward Bound will discuss its activi- ties. New members are still welcome. The Admissions Office. in keeping with the philosophy of student involvement in admissions begun by the Gatesmen and others has announced that pre-freshman applic~tion cards may be picked up in the Admissions Office any time from now until the close of school. S:nco Union men have on opportunity to me:::.t high school age people at summer <.cmps and during travel, it is felt .that if oil present students distribute 5 or 6 cards to top-flight prospects this will increase the number of pos'Sible applicants by sevoral thousand. DARI TREET RESTAURANT YOUR CHOICE CHAR-BROIL STEAK VEAL CUTLET CHICKEN ... $1.50 2049 Van Vronken Ave . FR 7-4261 THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeats from all over the world. 406 STATE ST. me's rugged pair of stick pens wins again in unending war against ball-point skip, clog and smear. Despite horrible punishment by mad ~dentists, me still write' first time, every time. And no wonder. Bic's \Dyamitc\ Ball is the hardest metal made, encased in a solid brass nose cone. Will not skip, clog or smear no matter what devilish abuse is devised for them by sadistic students. Get the dynamic BIC Duo at your campus store now. WI\TERMAN·BIC PEN CORP • MILFORD, CONN. RITZ REST AU RANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featuring HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS. CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Parties Pizza & Sandwiches at All Hours Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open Daily 11 A.M. to 3 A.M. 3 short of purpose for everyone, the ultimate test is success in \ narrowing the gap, and that ~ o e s f o r fraternities as for · ~\ ·verything else. . What needs to be done can be ,k;;;;;;;=:=:;=:;=:;=:;=:;=:;;;;;;;;=:;=:;~~:;;;;~:;;;;=========~ ·~ ............ \\'\\''' ............... ~~ If I were mappmg a program ',for closing the gap I'd start -.with rushing and pledging be- ::ause that is where freshmen get their notions of what fra- :ernity life means. They should )e shown (not just told about) . , evidence of emotionally and ' Jntellectually stab 1 e living, .vholesome fellowship, and ac- tive concern for human well- tbeing. And they should be pledged for their personal worth alone insofar as, developed or still to be developed, that worth can be estimated. done within the present struc- ture The Trustees of the Col- lege\ hav~ recently re-affir!ll.ed their policy that all fratermt1es on this campus must be free. of discriminatory clauses regardmg membership so that local chap· ter members may freely choose their fellows. By special pro- visions the Trustees have also made it possible for fraternities with . badly deteriorated hous- ing either to borrow for nee~ed improvements or to move mto better quarters. The . Dean of Students and the Comptroller gladly provide advice and assis- tance in management, Let the lager freely flow. Down to Louis', let us go, A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 189.5 - Corner 166 State and Erie Blvd. Large pa.rfies accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations :phone FR 4-891 7 there's one place that does it ! • Watch Repairs • Diamonds Reset • Jewelry Repaireo WORK DONE • Rings Sized • Engraving • Pearl & Bead Stringing ON THE PREMISES JAY~=, stfS State Street. Schenectad1 FR 4·8219

Oregon Trail Page 2 Concordy Sports , Martin On ~ Fraternities Page 1 Sam Dill-1967- 68 Concordiensis Athlete of the Year Football, Lax Star Joins Peace Corps Sam Dill is the winner of the Concordiensis Athlete of the Year Award. · Can . Garnet Sports Be Better? The twenty-two year old senior from Pitts· burgh, Pennsylvania was captain of the footbaU team last .fa:Jl to culminate four years of out- standing football competition. Dill also took up the sport of lacrosse in his junior year and was a team stalwart for two years. In high school at Fox Chapel (2,000 students) in Pittsburgh Sam played football and baseball. He started at ·defensive end his senior year and was selected as most valuable player in one of the team's five home games. In baseball Dill was a pitcher and an outfielder. He was the team's leading hitter with .410 average his senior year. At Union a£ter playing both offensive and de- fensive end as a freshman, Sam became solely an offensive end. In his junior year with the team pressed by injuries he played both ways but this past year became solely a defensive end. Sam's defensive play was highlighted by his choice to to the ECAC Weekly Team after the Hobart game. Sam was one of the few defensive ends chosen for the year, as most were offensive stars. Coach Flood called Sam the best defensive end he has coached at Union, and was especially pleased with his unselfish attitude toward becoming solely a defensive end in his senior year. Sam claims foot- ball as his favorite sport because of the physical contact and he also enjoyed playing both ways more than his years of concentrating on solely offense or defense. Sam practiced with the baseball team during his freshman year and went out his sophomore year but a sore shoulder ended his diamond career. Coming out for lacrosse in his junior year, Sam made the starting team and scored twelve goals and a total of fourteen points. This year, Dill began at attack. With the return of Bruce West by, Sam moved to the first midfield line, a position he preferred. Sam scored 21 goals and had four assists before he missed the last three games of the season with a foot injury. Sam considers his sophomore football season to be the most satisfying, feeling privileged to play with former Union greats Tom Hitchcock, Marc Hurlbut. and Bob DeMichele. Sam's greatest thrill also occurred that year, when he caught two TD passes in a 28-27 loss to Williams, his single most exciting contest at Union. Sam cited his most satisfying victories as the 1967 31-14 football win over RPI and this spring's 9-8 vic- tory over Colgate in lacrosse. As an English major, Sam has compiled a 2.6 index, and addition to athletics has been active Batsmen Fail To Get Regional Tourney Bid By HENRY FEIN Springfield, Long Island University, Jackson· ville, and Belmont Abbey have been selected to compete in the NCAA Atlantic Coast College Divi- sion championships. The Garnet, with a 9-2 sea- son record, had been hoping for an invitation to the tourney, the first step to the national champ- ionship. Springfield, the defending Atlantic Coast champ, sports a fine 14-7 mark against mainly University- Division clubs such as Harvard, Yale, and the University of Massachusetts. LIU is Metropolitan champ from New York City, and finished the spring season with a 22-2 mark. The Blackbirds have played more than eighty games since Sep- tember, when they began their fall practice. Division III is rep-resented by the University of Jacksonville, which finished the season with a 22-9-2 slate. The at-large squad is Belmont Abbey, a small Catholic college of only 800 men, located in Belmont, North Carolina. The squad nosted a 24-6·1 record in regulad season compe- tition . N-5 Lax at Hofstra The North - South All-Star Lacrosse game will be played on Saturday, June 15. The annual classic, open only to seniors will be played at Hofstra University, Hempstead, N. Y. Those nom- inated from this year's 9-3 Garnet are Lee Sch- neider, Larry Gillette, and Ken Milne, but it is not yet known whether any or all of them have been chosen. Last year Dana Jones was a mem- ber of the North squad that pulled off a big up- set, and two years ago the North was coached by Bruce Allison. Sam Dill holds the Concordiensis Athlete of the Year Trophy emblamatic of excellence in Union College Intercollegiate sports. in the Delphics and Block U. Sam also plays basketball and skiis. Sam will go to India in June for two years as a Peace Corps agricultural advisor. Coach Flood summed up Union's feelings on his en· deavor when he said, \I expect him to represent America well because of his dedication and easy going attitude.\ Beta Nears Title By PETE HATHAWAY With only the softball standings remaining to be finally determined, the overall intramural standings read as follows: STANDINGS Beta The\a Pt ..... . Ih~lta t·l,sllon . Delta Chi .. . . L lndept>nd<•nts • :. . Delta Phi ....... .. .. . o;. Phi 8igma ))Pita Chi Psi ........... . '· Phi E:J>Hilon l'i .. ~~- Phi l1anuna DPlta I u. The-ta Delta ('hi . . 1 J. Phi J>t>lt a Tht>ta 1 ·• Kap!Ja .\ lpha .. . . Ll. Hi!:ma Phi ...... . . I! . !'hi Higma Kal>l>a . 1. : . Rigma Chi .. .. lo. Alpha V<\lta Phi . Ji. Psi l\psilon .. . 768.601 739.140 691.24G 681.265 668.606 589.733 r)G4. 27·0 556.597 54~. 980 5~3.316 498.~60 437.8~!! 434.:!i3 4~4.370 402.860 388.07~ 287.19fo Beta Theta Pi, mostly on the strength of champ- ionships in football and basketball, is certain to repeat as the intramural champions for this year, and Delta Upsilon seems to have second place sewed up in the overall standings. Th intramural track meet, held this past week, was marked by outstanding individual perform- ances by Bob Okello, Greg Mills, and Jim Hutch- inson and strong team showings by Beta Theta Pi and Delta Upsilon, Beta Theta Pi won the meet with Delta Upsilon finishing a close second, the Independents third, and Chi Psi and Delta Chi tied for fourth. In perhaps the outstanding in- dividual effort of the meet, Greg Mills won the 44.0 yard run with a time of 55.1, with Hutchinson second. Bob Okello performed the rare feat of winning three events: he won the long jump at 19' 4 1 2\ with Mills a clos second, won the 100 yard dash in 11.1 seconds, and won the 120 yard low hurdles in 15.4 seconds. Rhett Yelton won the 220 yard dash in a time of 24.6, with Hutch- inson third. Dick Isbell won the high jump at 5' 6\ with Hutchinson again second.. Wayne Warwick took the shot put with a heave of 37' 9\. Delta Upsilon ran away with the 880 yard relay in a time of 1:41.7, more than five seconds ahead of the nearest competitor: Greg Mills, Tom Duffy, Paul Morrill, and Bill Larzelere carried the baton. The softball season is moving toward a meet- ing between Phi Epsilon Pi and Psi Upsilon for the championship, probably to be played Mon- day, 3 June. Phi Epsilon Pi, behind the superior pitching of Paul Gerber and the clutch hitting of Carl Goldsand, eliminated Delta Phi from the race with a nine inning 1-0 victory. Unbeaten Psi Upsilon rolled over Chi Psi 9-0 and Phi Gamma Delta 7-1. Phi Delta Theta, Delta Phi, and Alpha Delta Phi are hanging on behind Phi Epsilon Pi in the American League, while Beta Theta Pi and Phi Sigma Delta trail Psi Upsilon in that order in the National. In the independents soft. baH league, Dennis Hull's Team #1, behind the steady pitching of Jim Mindel, remained un- beaten and won the league championship with a 6 - 1 victory over Mike Fishman's error-plagued Team #6. Union · sports are definitely moving out of the depths from wh1ch they flOundered for many years. The greatest strwes 1orward can be seen in lacrosse and wrestling. In la - crosse, Bruce Allison's teams . have comp11ed a composite rec· ord of 26~6 over the past three seasons after a long history of weak lacrosse at Union. Wrestling ' s steady improvement has culm1nated m the achieve- ment of an Hl-1 mark over the past two seasons. 'l'he betterment in other sports has been more subtle. l<'ootball records have yet to really improve, but the amount of tootbarl talent present at Un - Ion is definitely on the rise. Another sport definitely improv- ing at Umon is soccer. Young Gary Brown is bringing more enthusiasm and coachmg talent to that sport than has been seen m recent years. Must (io Farther To maintain these improve- ments and go farther, however, will require some modification of programs in both the ath- letic deprutment and the college as a whole. Increased recruiting, which is in part responsible for the im- provement of Union sports, must be further encouraged. lt is not necessary to create ath- letic scholarships, but athletes could be given a better break on the question of need and in the amount of direct scholar- ship grant versus loan and grant - in-aid. White,Blae!k in Balance Athletics could definitely be a helpful factor in righting the present white-black imbalance at Union. A strong athletic program and good facilities would help to draw Negroes to Union. However, the coaching staff cannot actively recruit Ne- groes until the administration changes its admission and aid policy to allow Negroes who lack the cultural and educa- tional background to enter Un · ion. The encouragement of out-of- season practice is an essential factor in developing better teams. Curra.ntly, there has been some organized off-season play in soccer and lacrosse, but such activity has not received Mr. Ketz's sanction. Such ac- tivity should be encouraged, es- pecially among those athletes who could not contribute in an- . other sport and are willing to work harder at their chosen sport. In the case of scheduling, Union needs improvements. Football is presently good, and I believe that it will be even better with the replacement of King's Point, a team out of our League, by Middlebury in 1970. In basketball, home-and-home series should definitely be re- Gershon's Sandwiches Cold Cuts Salads Open lues. Sun. 8 A;M. to 9 P.M. Ph: EX 3-0617 , 1600 Union St. DEWITT'S ZELLMER'S NORGE. LAUNDRY AND CLEANING VILLAGE AT H>59 VAN VRANKEN AVE. (at HaHie Street) Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages 118- 120 JAY STREET DRY CLEANING WASHERS 8 Lbs. -- __ --- _-.,.- $2.00 12 Lb .• _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .25 4 Lb. Miu. _____ --- 1.00 20 Lb .• _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .35 DRYERS 30 Lb. . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .50 10 Min.----------- .10 MON.- FRI. -.----.-. _.--. _. _- 8:00 AM to 9:00 PM SATURDAYS-------------------8:00AM to 5:00PM - CLOSED SUNDAYS - IF YOU HAVE NEVER HAD NORGE DRY CLEANING DONE WE CAN BET YOU WILL BE AMAZED sumed with RPI, if no one eise. A meaningful ICAC could be established with such home,and-home series between league members. Wrestling Good Wrestling competition is cur- rently good, but it wouldn't hurt to add some good New Engl:and compet}t~on such as Wesleyan and Wllhams to replace a weak opponent like Hartford. The addition of Columbia · in 1!:16J is a good sign, and the idea of a Christmas Tourney, wh1ch Coach Col~man is workmg on :for 1969, Is also a rnust. The need for an lm}noved basebal_l sch~dule was especL- aUy evident m 1968. The ba·cs- mc:n only played ele-ven game:5 t~s. seaso.n, and it is · especially difficult m a sport • J.ike bas~­ baU to become tuned > with so few games. The lack of con- tests definitely hurt the Gar- net's chances of gaining a post- season NCAA bid. The prob- lem could be solved fairly cheaply, through the addition of doubleheaders against ICAC opponents, or the add-ition of local schools like Siena and Al- bany State to the slate. Double- headers in the ICAC could also make that competition more meaningful. Lacrosse scheduling is cur- rently at a good level hut if the teams continue to . iinprove it too shou!d be strengthe~ed. Coach Allison's continuing pres- sure on gaining Williams as an opponent is definitely in the right direction. comes the froslt could use the field after the varsity. As for a coach it is understood that former major leaguer Dale Long offered to coa~h freshmen ball here. Gary Brown is aiJso an obviously good choice for the post, necessitating a new frosh lacrosse coach . The need for a more flexible sports budget became evident in a ; pair of situations that oc- curred in the past two years. In . the summer of 1966, Union was contacted on the possibility of representing the United ~tates :in an Alaskan Centen- nial Basketball tourney. For Union, publicity•wise it was a chance of a lifetime, but we were heritant because the amount of money that it would cost was not definite. Union hesitated on the offer, and part- ly as a result of that hesitation the tourney was cancelled. In March, · 1968 the athletic depar.trnent felt that the great- est number of wrestlers it could send to the 41's was one, and as ;;~ result students had to come forth to send two more. More money from a flexible fund should have been available for such occurances when obviously more than one wrestler deserv- ed to go. Block U Picaic There will be a Block U Pic11ic this Sunday at 4:00 p.m. for all students wlto have won a varsity letter at any tim e. The picnic will be held in .Jackson's Gardens, a11d .the Pike A 'vard and Most ValuaMe Player Awards wi11 be }lri:srntcd. I believe that Union should attempt to make the ICAC meaningful through the meth- o~s I haye suggest~d. If. they fail, I fmd very little reason to conti!JUe in the league; In sports like lacrosse and wrest- ling, the league obligates us to play greatly inferior teams a g~e.at distance from Union. In addition, Hobart will begin to use freshmen on varsity teams ,:---------------., next fall, a policy that is frown- ! ed upon by most members of : the Union athletic staff. ' Lack Frosh Baseball The_ scope of the Union inter- ; collegia_te program is currently , good With one glaring exception : -the lack of a fresltman base- . ball team. The usually given • r~asol} that. the team lacks a field Is a fmr reason but should : not be . prohibitive. I'm sure that a field somewhere in Sche- necta?y c~mld be procured for ' practice m t~e early spring, : and once daylight saving time ' Mama Bianchi's Fine Italian & American Food Open Sunday Special Tues. & Thurs: Spaghetti & Meatballs with Salad and Coffee-$1.00 11 35 Barrett St. Private Banquet Room ·----------------------~ MauriceB Qftlubar1 & ons I I . 11 For three Generations.' Those Who Know Have been recommending E HERSHEL MAURICE B· WALTER 1111 3 Union G1aduates in Graubarf Family\ 166JAYSL FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY REALE'S For the finest in cameras and stereo fidelity featuring Nikon, Hasselblad, Leica, AR Speakers, Sony Recorders 1957 Foster Ave. FR 2-4446 •I , · I '

