1969 , I ] ~· . , VOL 98, NO. 26 Founded at llnion ~ollege 1877 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FEBRUARY 4, 1'969 \A Cau·sa Persa Parole · Assai\ PRICE TWENTY CENTS J •• met teams sports only the ... Council Approves Constitution Endorses plans for Co-Ed Week squad on and St. to , psters turn north for a week to 1 frosh have victories in the ay at 8:00. and the on the against a swimmers Williams 1933, the ' to Colgate won, ) wins 19 seasons, in in three defeats squared in both the ated season ERIC ANDERSEN: Famed folk singer and the \New York Rock and Roll ) ( Ensemble\ will appear this Winter Weekend. The festivities will commence Friday evening with the appearance of \Take Three,\ a jazz band, in the skellar. The Saturday Concert will begin at 8:30p.m. in Memorial Chapel. Tickets are on sale from Dorm representatives. By~LANMELL The Student Cmtncil enclecl over three months ()f debate last night, when it finally m tified the new constitution. The mot ion to approve the proposed constitution, and so allow the entire student body to consider it was supportecl by all the councilmen at last night's meeting except Walt Spencer, who abstained. Spencer, who was one of the drafters of the constitution, stated after the meeting that he had abstained in oider to register a protest against a nu:mber of items in the constitution, most particularly the continuation of the office of class president. Students Vote Entire Proposal He also objected to the ommission of minority reports, which would have allowed the student body to vote .separately on each of the more controversial issues. Instead, the student body Vlill be asked to vote for or against the proposal as a whole. ·~Wilson stars By STEVEN COLE • Ill Chapel ConCert With the seemingly competent ·• 1'\ assistance of the Northeastern New York Philharmonic, tmder the baton of Anthony Pozzane, Prof. Hu.gh A. Wilson presented a program of music • •. for keyboard and orchestra that left nothing to, be desired. The entire program was. executed at such an artistic level thatcolor, style, intellect, and music~ sophistication were more than obvious. Wilson displayed complete comprehension of style and musical taste. The Haydn Concerto in C major for organ, the Bach Concerto in F minor for harpsichord, and the Poulenc Concerto in G minor for organ allowed Wilson to manifest his complete command of the discipline. Beginning the program with Haydn was wise. The audience became aware that something fine was taking place and that there was more to come. A rarely performed piece, Wilson played the Haydn with \technique plus.\ The moderato was a nice tempo, although considerably faster than one expected, and gave Wilson a chance to do some interesting phrasing. \Utility\ is probably the word for Wilson's playing. His technique is completely · free and void of superfluous firmness. As Wilson got into the allegro, it became more than evident that he knew very nuance of the harpsichord. The tonal and color variations were nice. There was a very good balance between keyboard and strings during the allegro, this continued, and became more evident, in the largo. The interplay of solo and tutti in the allegro movement was executed beautifully. The largo movement gave Wilson an opportunity to show the .brilliance of the harpsichord. His expression, dynamics, co 1 or, accompanied by pizzicate strings in the large, were priceless. Pitch was quite good during this particular section. The presto was attacked with a little tenseness, but with complete control. The last movements form of tutti ritornelli of several sections with alternation of the harpsichord playing completely independent ritornelle phrases is indicative of Bach and demonstrates Bach's true craftsmanship. The Poulenc was great. Fantastic! If there were curtains in the Chapel, we could say Wilson received five curtain calls. For the audience felt the richness, beauty, and sheer genius of Wilson's playing. Attacks and releases were flawless, dynamics magnificant, and balance between strings and organ superb. The Concerto in G minor is more than indicative of Poulenc's aesthetic genius and wit. The fact that Wilson studied with Marcel Dupre at the Paris Conservatory might give some clues to why he played the concerto with complete authority and brilliance. Bravo 1 ~~~: ~~~ ~-- 1 ! l I HUGH ALLEN WILSON: College Organist and Professor of Music as be performed in the Chapel Sunday. Despite his abstention last night, Spencer said he would vote for the constitution at the student body meeting, which is tentatively scheduled for next Tuesday; February 11th. The text of the proposed constitution will be printed in Concordy this Friday. The committee which drew up the constitution plans to brief fraternity presidents and resident advisors on the proposal, so that they may stimulate discussion in the residence halls. A discussion of the constitution will also be held on WRUC next Monday night. Morgen than Here Tomorro'v Dr. Hans J. Morgenthau, political scientist and a leading critic of United States policy in Vietnam, will address a convocation at 8:30 p.m. Wednesday in Memorial Chapel. He will present · \A New Foreign ~olicy for the . United States.\ The Union-Skidmore -'International Relations Club will hold an informal reception in Dr. Morgenthau's honor at 3:30 p.m. tomorrow in Hale House. A member of the University of Chicago faculty for more than 25 years, Dr. Morgenthau recently became the Leonard Davis Distinguished Professor in Political Science at City College of New York, where he is teaching international relations and modern political theory to both undergraduates and graduate students. From 1950 until his transfer to CCNY Dr. Morgenthau directed the UniversitY of Chicago's Center for the Study of American Foreign and Military Policy. His books have generally argued for a \realistic\ approach to foreign affairs in which American national interests, rather than world opinion, is the chief guide in policy making. With an LL.B and a J.U.D. from the University of Munich, Dr. Morgenthau also holds honorary dectorates from Clark University, Ripon College, Western Reserve University, and Alma College. In 1966 he won the Jane Addams Peace Award. Among his books are \The Purpose of American Politics\ (1960), ••In Defense of the National Interest\ (1951), \Politics in the Twentieth Century\ (1962, 1967), and \Politics Among Nations\ (1948). movements of the hands or bocly. The largo was \gut\ and carried out with a good balance between strings and organ. The allegro mol to was perhaps a little pushed, .but still within the framework of the style. The acc()ustics in Memorial Chapel lent itself well to the Haydn. For Haydn was quite aware of the'effect on his music by the surroundings in which it was to be performed. The high ceiling provided bright resenance and allowed the listener to feel rhythm, and the changing of harmonies that Wilson accented so well. Committee to recommend constitution for Concordy In the F minor Concerto of Bach, Wilson was again able to display his vast musical knowledge. Many performers make the mistake of not knowing the musical history, style, and clues to interpretation. Wilson's sense of dynamics, ornamentation, phrasing, and tempo strongly encouraged orte to believe that things were pretty accurate. The F minor is a tricky piece and called for complete control. Wilson attacked the opening movement, allegro, with definite Full report to Student C~o.uncil du.e next Monday Ed Rundell, chairman of the Stu dent Council Publications Committee told Concordienses Monday that his committee's principal objective is securing a constitution from Concordy. He explained that without a constitutipn Concordy is technically not entitled to student tax funds. MEETING There will be a Student Body meeting, Tuesday, February 11 at 11:30 a.m. in Memorial Chapel to vote on the new constitution. One-fourth of the student body must be presented to hold the vote, which will be preceded by discussion. The proposed constitution should, according to Rundell, include general operating rules, such as election procedures, but would not have to be \too inclusive_\ Rundell spcec ifically ruled out any interference with Concordy editorial policy by the committee, but added that in his opinion, \there have been some factually misleading statements in some of this rear's editorials.\ Present Report Monday The committee will write its report on Concordy this week and present it to the Student Council meeting next Monday. The general purpose· of the publications committee is broad. It can investigate matters concerning Concordy, the yearbook, the Idol, and general matters such as good taste in publication and the role of the various publications on the campus. In addition, it may assist the college in updating its official publications, including the catalogue and the guide to student life. Rundell revealed he intends to resign as chairman of the committee soon, so he can devote more time as Student Council Secretary. To Be Effective In Two Weeks Should the constitution be ratified next week, it will go into effect in two weeks, when the new Student Senate h o Ids its first meeting. In the intervening two weeks elections would be held to choose the Senators, who will represent their living units. The Council approved a rider to the Constitution, last night, which would allow the three present student body officers to remain in office for the remainder of the school year. A motion to endorse the planned co-education week, to be held during the first week of the Spring term, was passed by the Council last night. Don Kessler, who is co-ordinating plans for the week along with Mike Mercer, stated that, if co-ed week is held, 100 girls would be invited to attend classes at Union for a week. Dean Critiques Co-Ed Week Plans Emphasizing \this would be an academic week not purely a social one\ Dean of Students Edward J. Malloy spoke yesterday on the proposed \Experiment in Coeducational Living.\ Students Don Kessler and Mark Merson had talked about it to Dean Malloy previously. \I pointed out some problems,\ Malloy noted. \I have only one major criticism. It is unfortunate that this would occur during. the Holy Week and Passover; (the Co-ed week is scheduled tentatively for the first week of Spring Term).\ Suggests Fee Since the Student Tax Committee would be unable to support the proposed Co-ed week because of other heavy obligations, Malloy suggested the idea of a registration fee. \The implementation of a nominal registration fee would keep this program limited to those who are sincere about it.\ Among problems facing the proposal are where to house the guests, how to recruit participants, and whether there is adequate student support. President Martin and other members of the Administration were unavailable for comment. DEAN MALLOY: Dean of Students Edward Malloy as he commented on a proposed Co-ed Week for Union.

IJ ~; PAGE 2 •.. -;oJQ~. CONCORDIENSIS FEBRUARY 4, 1969 _:__:__::_:;:__ _____ .:J:; . ..;~:tr:------------:-..-=====M;:;:::e=e=t::;:t=n=g==~=-=:::.!.!=-=-==:;J;:-.J--.--------~h::;;-----::;;;f::;;::-d--:::-. --:.=-_:_:=:..::;_::.:..:..:.:...~= CONCC .----1 ~-- Qlouror ~~~~~:; Ottn!1t9 -- There will be a student . . etters to t . e . ll 0 r p ,, Zll- _ body meeting Tues,!!a)k., · To the Editor: which will be presented later this seems to me that Saga's job • . . .. ,,, ·~ · - February 7th in Memoria:! · term. would be easier if they clio not n , : · ~ 1 Puto:1 ~-\''' .j f •JI ...,d.t. o~,;·. ~ I· r 1 ~ ,, • lur. 11n~ •h,· \.' h . : \!' ... r • \ .._r_..~·h·ro• I 8\• ! .. ·! t ~~' . f1 ( '.'I~ t• ..... I.' ., • ' t,, ~ ~ N, Y, '-.d''l \ln: t\! l•r 1 ,:.,t-: f.J,..j r,. I Sf'rj! .i 1 j'. f'- ~..,·I .r,,: r 1·. ,,. L , •.• • Ad· •·rt .... l'li<! St·r· t , I·•\ l :A·)...,. Put•!t<.;i.J r~ f<••pro·~t\t' r· ~to~) L•· 11..11)<\' 11 A. t n..;t· :.... ) • t • foc1t•~•n.tl OffJ.c~ 0\'ri Gym Un1on c •l.lF~f' P~Jt'll· .Ci!lvn nffl(t', Y.htl(>.l • ..... r ... t Prtr.'tfl~ :'l. 81ndrn\<! (',),Inc. 1 41\·41~ f',f!' A··· Tr·, ]<S-H'O! F-1'< It'! tn • ., •. ,, 1 ;o•r.p, t<J,i\ r.\~:1 Oll·t· ~·no.,~ ...... •n j (' !.:~!-.~ \1-.;~d ~1rtt'fo'r, ~uh\>rrtp~. ~ 2'Jr: ,, , ·r\. S·h-.~ \Par dt· lt\tt•rt~d an\ .. .rvrt- tn th~ \.'nt'E.-d·i ~I ·il t-' ~ ' : SENIOR HOARD i D. Peter Drotman ......................................... ,.,_ ..... Editor-in-Chief · RicharJ Lew1s .................................................. - .. B11sine~s Manager William Ou/.Cr ...................................................... Managing Lditor Allen Gartne1 ............................................................ 1\ews Editor Paul Andr~ws ....................................................... Fa.csimile Editor !leary h:i11 ............................................................... Sports Editor . Alan Kldtl. ................................................... C~:mtributing Editor I - I Ed' 1 RidmrJ K1 a~n~r .............. -· .......................... :t-l:utograp ty · Jtor Ba,r~ ROTC IksiJi li' th(• urging:; of th<' Yale Daily News to totally Lan ltOTC from the l'n:iwrsity eampus., the Yale Faculty met last week and voted to strip ROTC ()f its status as an a<.:ademic diseiplitH'. Students at that venerable institution will no longer receive eredit for participating in ROTC. eoun;es. lnst1~ad, military int-itruetion has been demoted to the kve1 of an extra- curricular activ.ity (like playing intcr-eullrgiat<' football, singing in the clwir, or marehing in an S])S protest). Union is a college wherein traditi~Hrs are fairly well t'ntr(~nehed. Not least among thest~ traditions is the pr(~senee of some sort of military tra.irring program on campus. The armed st!rvices have be:en present in some form hrrr since rough!)· the end of the Ci.vil War. However, we pm.:t:iw another institution that is rapidly becoming tradition hen!: following the actions of Yale University (most notable of these are the issues of CG-education and pass- fail grading). Two years ago Concorrliensis outlined the basic ideals of the military life: discipline and rcven<~nce for authority, unthinking obedience to the orders ()f superiors and unqucsti(iming acceptanc(~ of the right to use force to accomplish one's aims. In contrast to these ideals we asserted that the basis for the fosteringof liberal education is to further the questioning spirit of the individual, to stimulate him into trying to understand and to reason, and to usc his mind rather than brute force. At that time we pointed out that military training is quite antithetical to th(~ educational goals of Union College and eallcd for the abolishment of AFROTC. Lust year this newBpapt~r wholeheartedly endorsed the concept of removing AFROTC fmm the college curriculum, but did not viPw aboli tio11 as the best means for effecting this. We rt~alizcd that so111e students benefit from the AFR OTC program, but p()inted out that the college's traditi')nal noninvolvement concerning issues outsid(~ of education is belied by the AFROTC's existcnct~ at Union (this presener, it seems to us, gives more than tacit approval to militarism). We then urged that ROTC courses. headquarters and ae!ti·vities be removed from the College grounds. In ack.nowledgemPnt of realit)', most Union men will be called upon to serve in this country's armed forces. Because somC' of these men will re<:eive immeasurable benefit from their under-graduate military training, we feel that abolition of AFROTC is not the most efficient way in which to improve their under-~rttduatc experience. Howe,'er, wr very simply cannot rec()ncil(• oursdves to the existence of an academic departm•·rit ()n this campus know11 as Department of Aerospace Studies. Crt·dit towards graduation should definitely not be given for courses in thit-: \department.\ We urge the Faculty-studrnt curriculum committee to invf~stigate the possibility of following in the path beaten by the Yalr. general faculty and to instigate the removal of A FROTC from the curriculum. Newest Lunch Evt•n though he may never havf' riHr~n for breakfast and has skipp~·d half the lunches beeausP: he can not stomach th(' w('SL College fare, every Union fr(•shman pays a flat board rate covering 20 meals and sPvcn days a week. A stud(~nt is forcf~d to live in a dmrnitory or fraternity house against his will if the off-eampus housing quota is filled; and until this w·rck he was not permitted to decide wh<'n Jw might r<'e('iV(~ female {;!;U(~sts. W <> h<\licve that tlw idcaJ situati()n in this area is to permit any studf•nt to liw off-camplls in an apartment or hoarding house and to pay for a food plan only if he so d ('Si f('S. u.!lder t h!'S(' terms, the union Collegt~ resi dcnce und dining 'halls would bt' obligat<~d to r<anpete favorably with the Sl'hPnedady housing a11d dining facilities; otllf'rVvise Union Colkgt' \'ould bP fow(•d to get out of the hotel busin<'ss. We must nott•, however, that W<' do not anticipate Union clo~ing its facilities; rather we envJsJon improy('mentR in th(~ living ('onditiom at the College, and can only urg<' expedient manifestation of an ameliorated :-;ituati()n. Chapel at 11:30 to vote upon Last week I had the privilidge contract to serve 400 people 200 · the new proposed of reviewing •'The Firebugs\ and Doug Mealy meals a term. A constitution. \The Man of Destiny\ presented Since I don. 't believe :this by the Mountebanks. Much to To the Editor: change will occur wnless pe()ple ,, i r Blither All juniors planning to attend medical school next year--please register in the Biology Departmental Office and pick up the meclical college admission test announcement and applicatioA form for this spring prior to March 1 . Fordham Law School will hold a pre-law Con.ference for minority gr:oup college students on Saturday, February 22, on the Fordl~am ' campus in New York City. Further information rnay be obtained from William J. Daniels in the political science department. my dismay, the article which work for it through the pre sent 1 a p p e a red in Friday's Throughout the year there channels of student government Concordiensis was only about h ave been s Po r ad i c I announce the formation of am two-thirds ·of the article I man ifesta.tions of discon·tent Ad Hoc committee of Stuaents The submitted. This was a gross with the quality of the food and for t11e AboHtion of L11nch change: iNjustice to the four actors in service at Saga's West College Ti ck:e ts or SA LT. This r e c e r \The Man of Destiny\ because dining ha:ll. At times I have ROt committee will draft a reiJort ,. Con c in the article that was printed, been s.atisfi.ed. However, and proposal to be brough 1 admin they were not even idefltified. considering the limitations they before the Student Council. genera AlthoHgh the damage has been are working under I feel that the Anyone interested in wor:king 1 grades done, I would like to mention food and service at Sage is with me on this commi:ttee ·; · .. -'\'and that David A. Van Denburgh as acceptable. This is not to say should leave their name a.t my pmpos; Napoleon, Maria .Scafuro as The that it can't be improved; but I room (307 South} er see me outside Strange Lady, George Lonsdorf have always found the managers during the week. and a ~ as the Lieutenant, and Joel M. of Saga more than willing to talk 0 in his Blmnenthal as the innkeeper to students about the operation Sincerely yolm, defect composed the verf fine cast. The of the cafateria. Walter A. Spencer., Jr. grades play was extremely well done One of the major limitations n spend and the four should receive that Saga is working under, in ( QN TEST in a d public praise. I hope the same my opinion, is that all freshrnan . . . admini mistake does not occur again HAVE to bt1y a meal ticket. I \A causa persa parole . Mr. Sh when Concordy reviews \The consider this rule discriminatory assai.\ The lost words that 11 ' those. Caretaker\ by Harolo Pinter, against the freshman. It also can unlock the deepest 1 . one a ' . a facul secrets of man'! A world view · ~>~,. propos more comprehensive than the · • stu den Clare W _ Graves level theory? · TeFse enough to have been some : d b P f R b the po uttere . y ro essor o · ert , 1 ·,n hi's 1 Sharl~t? u i Critic Terms\~Bu llitt\\ lntrigu igg By BILL SHAPIRO B ullitt, now showing at Schenectady's Colony Theatre, is designated by many popular critics as one of 68's ten best movies. Steve McQueen stars as Lt. Frank Bullitt. His assignment: to protect a ganster--star witness--from the \organization\ until he takes the stand in the Senate subcommittee hearing against the \syndicate.\ Robert Vaughn and Jacqueline Bisset join a well chosen, good acting cast. The director, peter (Secret Agent, The Saint) Yates, was artistically successful in interpreting four qualities of Bullitt. The first quality is interesting and raw bits-and-pieces of realism. The film illustrates one particular juxtaposition between the political-legal profession and a local police precinct. Absorbing sequences of emergency hospital surgery and some gruesome deeds of the \syndicate's\ victums add intrigue and shock, respectively. Bullitt's second quality is a fast paced--action packed film_ Peter Yates' reliance on the camera provides for the movie's power, but it also co,1stantly challenges the viewer by eliminating dialogue. As a result, the third quality is the opportunity for the audience to make interpretations about what the dialogue might have been, if added. In conclusion, human motive, facial expression, and excitement are results of Bullitt's predominantly graphic way of telling its story. The fourth quality of the film, relies on the third one. Bullitt again enters the psyche of the audience, but this time via outright intrusion: despite the film's realistic qualities, the production uses satire and irony as its means to invade the emotions of the audience. The satire becomes blatant as the unusual events come back-to-back with the realistic ones. For example, there is a wild car chase through the city and outskirt roads of San Calendar Wednesday 5-- Freshman Basketball: Union vs. Trinity, Field House 6:15p.m. Basketball: Union vs. Trinity, Field House, 8 p.m. Convocation: Hans Morgenthau-\A New Foreign Policy for the U.S.\ . Thursday 6-- Film Haps: \The Mouse That Roared\ S.S. 016, 7 and 9 p.m. (admission 75 cents) Drug and Drug Addiction:: discussion, Skidmore College, Recreation Center (old Campus) 7:30p.m. Auditions for Over and Over: Skidmore College Hall (old campus) 7:30p.m. Friday 7-- Film Series: \Secrets of Women\ S.S. 616,8 p.m. Film: \To Be a Crook\ Russell Sage College, 7:30 p.m. (place unannounced yet) Film: \The Married Woman\ Draper 349, Albany State, 7 and9 .m. ,Acme Barber Shop 509 Union Street Experienced Barbers Nearest to Union Co!IE:ge Students JAY BILLIARD LOUNGE 167 JAY ST. SPECIAL RATEi6 FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS Bring Your ·Dates Free Parking In Rear -a-•-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-.-·~·-·-r T ! I - II Cafef.ef'ia and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages.- 1 11 S- 120 JAY $TRffT ~---·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-···-· t ' F ran c i s c o : a hi g h I i gh t cinematically and in excitement. However, such a chase is so fantastic that the possibility of such a chase is a questionable feat, even for the Shelby Mustang or Charger, both used in the film. Yates plays a game with his audience: the finale of the car chase has a message, missed by a substantial percentage of the audience. 0 ne becomes emotionally involved with the excitement and with \tough- as-nails\ McQueen. As a result, the audience, hopefully, ends up embarressed, as it sees the fun through hilly streets of San Francisco, turn into tragedy on the outskirts of town. Who is the \good-guy when the \bad-guy\ is dead. What's it all about, Lt. Bullitt?(!) Letters All letters to the editor must be submitted, typewritten and double-spaced to the Concordiensis mail box in the Student Activities Office in Old Gym Hall or to the editorial offices on the first floor of Bronner House. All letters intended for publication must be signed, although names may be witheld on request. The Editor reserves the right to edit all letters exceeding 100 words in length with the understanding that the apparent intent and purpose of the letter shall not be altered. Co ncordiensis offers a studen de term prize .for the best, most or \fai original and most accurate the tea translat.ion of these Inigh.ty · The 0 word!>, our noble slogan. for th Entries are not to exceed therefc 200 words and may be submitted to the ediuors by, ~r~t~~ placing them in any garbage pail. '1hey will most surely arrive at the editorial offices with the rest of the junk. Any member of tl\e · college community is eligible to enter except those employed by Concordiensis, its subsidiaries or its advePtising agencies. This contest is void in WiscGnsin, Canajoharie and wherever else prohibited by law and/or the usual low standards of good taste. Prizes include two free passes to the faculty produ.ct ion of The Odyssey, featuring Dean Martin Lichterman as Aeolus; the unclaimed blueberry muffin left over from the .last inane con test we ran; and a host of other valuable prizes. WANTED: SKI INSTRUCTOR EXPERIENCED SATURDAYS ONLY Ca II 393-5126 enter ·.;j· .. schooh 1 very pc he wil until 1 perhap many omit abou depart1 Betta • clear system ex is ten thorou then i with v himsel profes~ Your roommate can't sleep No uns p. decisic educa outsid~ ins tit gradua issue i~ it se intelli~ whole invoh purpm collegE not di and attem often man li an occ not bE facult~ or in elsewh suprisi ultima accept educat in the dark? Think it overj over coffee. The Think Drink. For your own Th•nk Drtnk Mug, sPnd 75C and your name and addres.s.to: Th•nk Or.nk Mug, Df'PI. N, P Q_ Box 559. Nl:'w York, N. Y, 10046, ThP lnternat.onal CoffeeOrgan•zat.on, I· '•• ·1. ( I howev that tl Mr. S Fl GUAJ SUM:

4,1969 CONCORDIENSIS FEBRUARY 4, 1969 PAGE 3 faculty Forum Saga's Job did not ,, .. people 200 ! Pass· Fail: Possibly Youth ,fare- '72 H!oo:p Continued. • • Hijac.ked? Tedisco put on an amazing display of moves and ball handling, while the entire Garnet squad played a fine defensive first half. Middlebury played a zone defense to try and combat the outside as Union took a11 eleven point lead, 28-17, with ten minutes to go in the first half. Middlebury's shooting turned cold, as Union worked the ball well to the iNside. Rich Goldberg pulled some key rebounds for the Gamet in the closing minutes to help the freshman sustain the eleven point lead at 45-34 as fhe first half came to a close. these turnovers due to their cold shooting. The score tied at 65 with one minutes remaining. believe :this pe<Jple the present government ion of am of Students of L11nch This a revort be brough Council. in wor:king committee a.t my er see me yotns, Spencer, Jr. parole tb.at deepest view · ethan the· el theory? · been or Robert offers a est, most accurate se Inighty. to exceed may be by. garbage ost surely offices junk. of the is eligible pt those rdiensis, or its void in and by low aste. two free faculty Odyssey, Martin the ry muffin .last inane host of ED: CTOR ONLY An''AcademicRev·olution'' Unless the Civil Aeronautics · Board reverses the ruling of one of its examiners, low-cost airline , With the score 67-65 in-favor of Middlebury and eight seconds left in the game, the Panthers grabbed a rebound and their foward was fouled. He went to the line in a one-and-one situation and missed the first shot. Union grabbed the rebound, and immediately called for a time out. Jim Tedisco took the inbounds pass, and with one second left put a lay-up in, tying the score at 67. The two proposals ·for changes in th:e grading system r e c en ti: y d.e s c r i b·e d in Concordiensis, the administration's plan for a general pass-fail with letter grades held in a memory bank ;I .r\'an d Professor Shina.gel's . · proposal for a pass-fail allewance outside the student's discipline and a 9~point system fm courses in his maj.or, share the notable defect of retaining the use of grades at least in part. I will not spend time here with the inadequacies of the administration's plan, because Mr. Shinagel has very ably stated those. I will only remark that one argument made for this proposal, tha·t it is unfair to ask a faculty member to grade some students in a course one way and some another, is simply beside :. ~I the point. The teacher can assign in his mind a letter grade to the student's work and very easily determine whether he \passed\ or \failed\. This is merely what the teacher always does anyway. The only reasonable argument for the administration's plan, 11 ) therefore, is the same argument 1. Mr. Shinagel ~akes for his own; a student will need grades to enter graduate or professional ~;I· \' schools and certain jobs, and it is ll 1 very possible, indded likely, that he will not make that decision until late in his college career, perhaps after taldng pass-fails in many of his major courses. (I 1 omit Mr. Shinagel 's argument -)1 about determination of departmental honors and Phi Betta Kappa because it is quite clear that under a pass-fail system these would pass from existence of be redefmed in a thoroughly new form.) Are we then to have no letter grades with which a student can prove himself capable of graduate or professional study? Aga~nst The Grain No other issue so lucidly and unsparingly reveals that decisions about undergraduate education are often made outside this institution by other institutions, notably the graduate schooL The grading issue is therefore not so trivial as it seems, and it cannot intelligently be divided from a whole range of questions involving the fundamental purposes of the undergraduate college, provision for education not directed to graduate study, and above all our present at tempt simultaneously, and often ineffectively, to educate a man liberally and train him for an occupation. These issues have not been discussed by students, faculty, or administration here or in their full magnitude elsewhere, and that is not suprising because they touch ultimately upon almost every accepted practice in current education. I must content myself, however, with specific questions that the grading problem raises. Mr. Shinagel's observation that \some form of grading is central to the eva.Iuation of students' performance in course work\ is an idea so widely expressed in academic circles that I will have to risk looking blindly stupid in order to ask a few simple qllestions. The statement begs the question of whether \evaluation\ of performance is itself necessary and, if we leave aside the ignuble and, for many students, irrelevant answer that graduate schools demand grade evaluations, why it is necessary. Because students won't work, and therefore learn, without them? But it is in fact the best students, whether their grades show that they are best or not, who are most often indifferent to grades or trying manfully to remain indifferent. And as for those who frankly won't work without grade pressure, does the pressure really produce a mind capable of dishonestly modeling itself upon the cast of its teacher's mind. And is the price in human independence worth the assurance that a few facts or even a few ideas are successfully crammed into a mind which after the exam expeditiously disgorges them? Evaluation, How? What is infmitely sad, of course, is that so few students have been made capable of the clarity, self-realization and internal discipline with which they might evaluate themselves and experience in a worthy way the pride or pain of their success or failure. No one, I think, will deny that their ability to do so would be one of the finest proofs of a truly productive education. But if the teacher must continue to evaluate students as symptom of the educational system's failures, why must he continue to use grades as his means? Mr. Shinagel is absolutely right that there is a great difference, for instance, between a C and a C minus student, but there is also an in calculably great difference among nearly all the C minus students I have taught. When I remember them as a C minus or transcribe that grade on a grade sheet, I make no meaningful declaration about them at all. They might, among many possibilities, have been indolent or extremely ambitious, brilliant but irrelevent, undisciplined, or plain dull. My C minus conveys none of this, and letters of recommendation from selected professors often written years after the course was taken convey it poorly. Beyond Grades If graduate and professional schools are not able to recognize now that a 2 or 3 paragraph description of a student is considerably more informative about his performance as well as his potential than is a letter grade, are we forced to continue to repeat their stupidities? I can FUN WORKING IN EUROPE. I I· '•• ·1. ( o}' J \I ··~ GUARANTEED JOBS ABROAD! Get paid, travel, meet people, SUMMER and YEAR ROUND. 20 countries, 9 paying job cate- gories offered. Fot FREE cultural program literature including details and applications, write: \ISTC admissions, 866 United Nations Plaza 1 New York, N.Y. A Non-Profit Student l\1em- bership Orgamzation. ----=-_:::. ________________ . ~ ~-~-- - ~ Professor Harvey fares for youths between 12 and • · 21 years of age will be dropped see only one acceptable reason . before the end of this month. for hesitation, namely that we cannot sacrifice the TheCABexarninerruledsuch· undergraduate who wants to go d i s co u n t s ' 'u n j u s t l y to graduate school to even to discriminatory\ against healthy change. But, in fact, passengers who must pay full would this sacrifice occur? Were . fares only because they don't we to use pass-fail entirely and fall within tire age group. to give each student a detailed written evaluation of his work at the end of a term, an evaluation which might go into a permanent folder for his future use, cou:ld graduate schools reject our applicants out of hand? Obviously they could not. They have already adapted themselves to less thorough experiments of a similar kind, e.g., schools which offer seminars graded with S and U, and if Union is at all symptomatic they will have to do so more ami more often as time proceeds. Who knows, in fact, whether this might not be the first step in a new \Academic Revolution\ not one performed by the graduate school on the undergraduate college this time, but like any true ·revolution generated from below. By presenting a court order to the CAB demanding an investigation into student airline reductions, bus companies won the first round in their battle to force airlines to drop the reduced rates. The examiner rejected arguments by youth-fare supporters that such discounts are needed to spur air travel by young people and to fill empty seats both on existing planes and the larger planes, that will come into operation soot~. According to the report, \fares shall be offered on an equal basis to everyone.\ Concerned students should notify their congressman urging them to overrule the decision. The second half was a complete reversal for Union. The Garnet shooting was cold at the start. The Panthers took advantage of this by repeatedly going to the inside. Rich Goldberg received his fourth foul with sixteen minutes left and was replaced by Rich Matthews, who contributed a fine defensive effort. Middlebury cut Union's lead to one, 50-49, with 13:36 to go. Union had difficulty setting up their offense, but the outside shooting of Rich MacLeod and Tedisco kept the game close. With 6: 17 left, the score was tied 60-60; Tedisco's shooting turned cold, forcing MacLeod to carry the burden. Middlebury went into a stall offense with three minutes to play, but Union repeatedly stole the ball. The Garnet could not cash in on In the overtime period, Rich MacLeod and Rich Goldberg fouled out, kaving no one to run the ball club. The freshmet~ failed to set up their top scorer, Tedisco, and consequently fell short of the mark as Middlebury was victorious by a score of 75-72. The freshmen have lost their lHst four games in a row and tis reporter sees it as a lack of team work. The team appears to be composed of five individuals rather than one ball club. The pi ayers showed a great improvement in the first half but couldn't sustain it in the second period, contributing to their collapse. If Coach Brown would emphasize the need for teamwork the freshmen could end up with a winning record this season. WHO SAYS A CAREER IN INSURANCE CAN'T BE PERSONALLY FULFILLING? Ours challenges the intellect. Involves serving people. Demands personal initiative. Requires the guts to innovate. Offers financial independence. If you want a career-a life-that involves you, challenges you, rewards you emotionally and financially, then Prudential would like to meet you. Because what you want is what we offer. And we offer it in many fields-marketing management, appli~d computer technology, investments, actuarial areas, accounting, sales, claims and underwriting. Our representative will be on your campus within the next few weeks. Ask your Placement Officer for the exact date and arrange to talk things over with us. When it comes to a career that involves total fulfillment, Prudential understonds. THE PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE COMPANY OF AMERICA on equal opportunity employer

C·oncordy Sports _P_A_G_E~4~------------------------------''-------!!!!!.----------~--------=f=:E=:B::R:-U:-.:A~H::-Y:-:4-:,-:,:-.96=9~ 1 ' I I' lJ 1 Hoopsters Top Panthers; Face Trinity Tomorrow BY GARY PREVOST Sparked by the deadly shooting of Bill 1'\eidel and the overall play of War-ren Mumford, the Garnet hoopsters rolled past Middlebury 80-71 in the Fieldhouse Friday night. The cagers will try to improve on their 6-8 record when they host Trinity tomorrow night at 8:00. The frosh will attempt to break a four-game slide in the 6: 15 opener. Neidel scored 28 points to lead the Garnet, as he hit 12 of IS shots from the floor, including six in a row in the second half. Mumford found the range for twenty points and played a fine all-around defensive and ball-handling game. Bill Boemke ha11led down fourteen rebounds and limited the Panthers' leadin.g scorer, Gene Oliver, to two field goals. Halftime Lead The first half w<ts closely contested, with the lead changing hands several times until the Garnet moved ahead for good at 23-21 with seven minutes remaining. The Dutchmen foiled the f\liddlebury zone by hitting from the outside to gain a 40-33 halftime margin. The Garnet led throughout the second half, but the 6-7 Panthers rallied to within one on several occasions. Middlebury went to a man-to-man full court press, but the ease with which the Garnet broke the press may have decided the game. Behind the hot sl1ooting of Neidel, the Garnet moved to a 60-52 lead with eleven minutes Cagers Fall In Overtime BY HANK LEVINE The Union freshmen hoopsters lost an overtime heartbreaker to Middlebury Friday night by a score of75-72. Middlebury had a slight height advantage and used it to take two and three attempts at each basket, despite the fine defensive efforts of Rich Goldberg and Dick Davis. Union and Middlebury both opened the game running. Jim Continued on page 3 IN TRAM URALS The annual Intramural Indoor Track Meet will be held tomorrow 11nd Thursday, beginning each afternoon at 4;3Q. Four events will be contested each afternoon. Wednesday's slate has the 50-yard dash, eight-lap relay, Shot Put and Loag Jump, while Thursday wil[ have the 55-yard low hurdles, four-lap relay, medley telay and high jump. '·Each man may enter up to three vents, but he can compete in no 1nore than two events in either track or field. Members of current freshmen or varsity sports are ineligible, as are past recipients of a \Block U\ for track. THE p:EANUT STORE Featuring PlANTERS HOT I!OASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeats from all over the world. 406 STATE ST. to go when Bill was charged with his fourth personal. With Neidel on the bench for the 11ext six minutes, the Garnet played slow down. With Barry Fitzgerald scoring seven points, the Garnet held a 70-62 lead when Neidel returned with 4:45 remai11ing. Ironically, Fitzgerals had missed warmups and the early part of the game when he was stranded with a flat tire. The remainder of the ball game was very hectic, though the final margin was not affe.cted. Both teams were assessed technical fouls in addition to many personals. The technical called on Jerry Alaimo, the Panther coach, was his second of the game and he was thus ordered from the court. It had been announced on Friday morning that Mr. Alaimo will be head basketball coach at Brown University next season. The shooting statistics largely tell the story. Both teams got off 63 shots, but the Garnet cashed in on thirty attempts, five more than the Panthers. The Dutchmen were likewise deadly from the foul line, hitting on 20 of 25. Union held a 45-37 rebound edge against the shorter Panthers. Bantams Here The Trinity contest will be pivotal for the Garnet as they drive for a winning se aso11. However, the Bantams will not be a pushover despite their 5-7 record. The calibre of Trinity's competition has been quite high, including five Divisiofl II teams. The Bantams got off to a fast start, defeating Williams (72-61), Tufts (102-81), and WPI (84-77) before falling to Middlebury (81-76) and MlT{92-90). At the Ce1dral Connecticut Tournament, they lost to Southern Connecticut (81-67) and B ates {90-84) befo1 downing Wesleyan (73-72) in the seventh-place game. Since vacation, Tri11it:y has fallen to Bowdoin (74-71), Colby (90-76), aad Boston University (1 09-92) while defeating Coast Guard (90-88). The Bantams tuned up for tomorrow's contest by dropping a 115-94 exhibition decision to the New York A.C. A key factor in the ball game will probably be the control of the boards. The Garnet have needed this to win all season, and against teams with height and shooting like Trinity, they have had problet11S. Injured Matmen Lose To Mariners, 19-14 BY STU MOSS Two superb performances by Bill Munno and Naysim Simon could not prevent Union's injury-riddled varsity wrestling team from losing to a good Kings Point squad 19-14 Saturday afternoon. The Garnet's second straight defeat dropped their season record to 4-2. With Tom Tripp, Dick Rosener, Bill Munno and Mac Bigge sitting out with assorted ailments, Coach Ron Coleman's revised lineup had Ron Ruhl wrestling at 123, John Barrows at 130, Frank D' An tuono at 137, Bart Gale at 145 and Steve French at 160. Ruhl opened the match by taking a decision from his opponent. Hmvever, inste.ad ?f Barrows following, Bill Munno substituted when Jolm lost fealmg In one of his hands warming up. Munno, not wrestling due to a sprained ankle suffered against Colgate last week, had been working out for two hours when he was summoned. Although physically tired and not wrestling in his 1 23 lb. slot, Bill won a decision from his bigger opponent. Injuries Hurt Chances D'Antuono moved up a class and lost a heartbreaking decision on riding time, after making a second takedown. Gale, replacing Tripp; also lost by a decision, and injured his shoulder in the process. Jeff Knetzer was pinned by his 152lb. opponent at 7:39. French, with the benefit of only a half-hour practice session, lost a decision. Steve was substituting for the hospitalized Mac Bigge, who was going to take Rosener's place. .. Naysim Simon had little difficulty in gaining a decision over his 167 lb. opponent. Simon, completely dominating the last two periods won by a fantastic 17-0 score. However, when Brian Crandall was pinned at 1 :45 in the 177 lb. class the match was put out of the Dutchmen's reach. Ill the final match of the aftern()on, Pete Kenyon showed that he could go at full strength for eight minutes when he nailed his opponent at 7:59 in the heavyweight division. The injury list shows that Tripp and Rosener are by far the most serious. Although Dick's knee should be healed in time for the post-season tournament, Tom's shoulder is doubtful. The extent of injury to Barrows and Gale are both question marks. In addition, both Bigge and French may not wrestle in Union's next match, when the team faces a tough Rochester squad Saturday afternoon in an awav contest. ~F'or three Generations.' Those Who Know ••• Have been .. ecommending - HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER \3 Union Graduates ·in Graubart Family,. 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY r VOL ! -· .. l··a·· -! _, •. .•. ' r-· <;~)-~~ ~ .... ··t·.·· .. r·.·· ... ··. . , ... . .··· : . t'. '-'· : . . ... · :. ; Mike Reger (left) and John H()rwath diving into Foote Pool at the start of their sweep of the 200-yard breast11oke Saturd'ay. ~.·· ~!J.oto by Rick Kremer !, Arne Mor problen relation relation · relation third\ towaf( relation \Wh nuclear known Morgan what N Arne ric her ow dilemm Mor, France' the idic In c Ameri. Comnn policy · \Th from:; mono control been n ~ with e policy frame\ do we 1 ~ He, perv:ers and hi~ , brough sparse: \Th world,' comm revolu stage.\ Ameri oppose \ mane

Fountled at ·Union College 1877 r VOL 98, NO. 27 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FEBRUARY 7, 1969 . ' ·~ uA Causa Persa· Parole ' Assai\ PRICE TWENTY CENtS Constitutional Election Tuesday To Form Student Government~ of the ~.·· Rick Kremer 1 th Richmond , Steve~' [ last minute · HANS MORGENTHAU: Noted' political scientist as he addressed an informal ( gathering during his visit to Union Wednesday. 200 yard his winningr, in dual final Gamet · M th w ~hn 2 ~~or~:~~~.: • · .. ·· orgen . ·, au ants d Mike Reger ' 1 _Creative Revision knew•~ 1 ttle hope of · before ' · so he~.! · on next 1 meet. : ~t~~) ~~ ~~ ~ BY BRUCE HUSTEN A me ric an foreign policy is a remnant.of 1947 and is obsolete. So said Dr. Hans J. Morgenthau, , noted political scientist, at a convocation Wednesday night in Union's Memorial Chapel. we are forced to leave the field of reform and transformation of these countries to the Communists.\ * * Morgenthau said American foreign '· policy is the result of a creative effort · in 1947 after the Secord World War. Speaking on America's attitude to nuclear power, Morganthau said, \To threaten muclear war is a suicidal absurdity, for the object of the war would be wiped off the earth along with the major powers.\ ~D * * ~ ~ ~ Our policy then was based on the Truman Doctrine, the Marshall Plan ·· · and containment, and according to Morgenthau, our policy today hasn't changed a bit. He even criticized the nomenclature given nuclear weapons. Weapons, he said, are instruments used defensively for rational purposes, \but these are instmments to be used 1 for mass destruction.\ On Imagination BYALANMELL After mere than a term of bicj\.ering about the major and the picayuNe issues invulvcJ in drawing up a new constitution for the student government, .the entire student body will get its opportunity on Tuesday to decide whether they think all the time spent on the proposal has produced the basis needed for a better government. · The intent of the drafters of this proposed constitution has been to form a better government by forming a more representative one, as is clearly stated in the preamble. ln order to make the government more representative 0f the students, the members ·of the Student Senate, which would replace the present Student Council, afe to represent their living units rather than their en tire class. Students l\1ore Concerned? The theory behind this change is that, with a smaller constituency, the senators will be able to more accurately gauge the opinions of that constituency and will also be more .available to students who want to air a gripe. That's all very good on paper, but what, if anything, is it going to mean in reality'? Are students going to automatically become more interested in what the Student Senate is doing than they were in what the Student Council used to do? And are senators going to be any more concerned about doing their jobs well than councilmen were? The answer to the last two questions is, I'm afraid, no. After all, no matter wha't constitution we have, we still have the same students and those students have shown very little interest in student government. As a matter of fact, they have shown little indica'tion they are aware a student government exists. Council Shows Little Interest Have you ever attended a meeting of the Student Council? Probably not; because as you would have seen if you had, just about no one, except the council members are ever there. And even a great many of them don't show up, Council members are Union students too and marry of them exh.ibit just as little intefest in their government as everyone else on canpus. (For example, after attending olle meeting of the Council, two of the four newly elected freshmen representatives failed to attend last Monday's meeting.) Nevertheless, the new constitution deserves a chance. If the constitution works as those who wr0te it hope, senators wilJ be keeping in close con tact with their constituents and so ,..,.m be creating an awareness of the government and an interest in its activities . I can't see any of that happening. For example, I cannot see very much a tt en dance at floor meetings if senators choose to call them with much frequency. Still, the system will be worth having when an issue is raised that really does interest the bulk of the student body. As it stands now, when such an issue is raised, there is II() way for students to express themselves, except by signing usually ineffective petitions. Opening New Oatlets : The possibility of opening new out lets for student opinion makes this n ew constitution worth praising. However, unless students try to make their thoughts known to the Senate, through their representatives, the whole thing is useless. The attitude of *I *I ~~ ':li:l \The United States needs today an effort similarly-creative to the Spring of 194 7,\ he suggested. He said, in other words, that the world has changed signifi.g,antly since 1947 but in America the status quo has remained.; Cites Problems - Morgen t-h·.P,tt. stated five basic problems that need retormation: our relationship with· our allies; our relationship with the Communists; our Rollo May Speaking Wednesday *· \#:'' e imprinted .. I I .Y. 14120: I I I I ..... I • I I -------·· ' relationship with the \unc0rnmited third\ of the world; our attitude toward nuclear power and our relationship with ourselves. \When Russia exploded her Jlrst nuclear device we ought to ·have known NATO would fall apart,\ Morganthau commented. No matter what NATO says in. theory, practically America \can't and Won't jeopardize her own interests -- it's an existential dilemma.\ Morgenthau said he gives credit to F ranee's Charles de-Gaulle for seeing the idiosyncracies of NATO. Communist Policy In commenting on the problem of America's .Telationship with the Communists,.·. Morganthau said our policy \reveal~ its backwarqness.\ \The Com:munist Party ·is different from 20 years ago,\ he noted. \The ' m on ollthic: Communist world control1ed by the Soviet Union has been replaced by a polycentric world, ., with each country pursuing its own policy within the Communist framework. What type of communism do we mean?\ !ll> He charged there is a !'measure of perversity\ in· our policy in Vietnam, and his failure to clarify the allegation brought several questions from the sparse audience followmg his talk. The Underdeveloped \The developing third of. .. the world,\ Morganthau stated, .. have in common that they are in the revolutionary or pre-revolutionary stage.\ He went on to charge that American f0reign policy, clearly opposed to revoh.,1tion of any sort, has \maneuvered us into a position where Dr. Rollo May, psychoanalyst, lecturer, teacher, and author, will address a convocation at 8 p.m. Wednesday, Feb. 12, in Memorial Chapel. The lecture will be entitled \Creativity and the Unconscious.\ In addition to his professional practice in New York, Dr. May is a supervisory and training analyst at the Williams Alanson White Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Psychoanalysis. He also holds faculty rank at the Graduate School of arts and Science at New York University, Yale, Princeton, and the New School for Social Research. Dr. May is past president of the New York State Psychological Association and the William Alanson Student Meeting There will be a Student Body meeting, Tues.day, February J I at 11:30 a.m. in Memorial Chapel to vote on th<' new constitution. One-fourth of the studenl body must be presented Lo hold. the vote, which will be preceded by discussion. White PsyclwaiJalytic Society, a fellow ·of the National Council of Religion in Higher Education and the American Psychological Association, co-chairman of the Conference on Psychotherapy and Counseling of the New York Academy of Sciences, and a member of tlu board of trustees of both the American Foundation and Manhattan S0ciety for Mental Health. A native of Ohio, he is a 1930 graduate of Ollerlin College. Dr. May took his doctorate at Columbia in 1949. His most recent book, \Psychology and the Human Dilemma\ was published in 1966. \Love and Will\ will be published by Norton this year. His writing accomplishments include numerous <>ther books, 1Jook chapters, and scientific papers. ROLLO MAY: Famed Psychologist is next speaker in the current Convocation series. He will appear Jl.ext Wednesday. Saltzman Cancels Linebacker; :Not Enough Forms Completed Linebacker editor Bob Saltzman announced Thursday night that \no attempt (will be made) to publish or even carry out an evaluation of the courses offered during the Fall Term .. .' The decision was based on the fact that only .66.1% of the course cards available were returned in suable form. Usable form means that the card had at least one question answered properly. After consultation with statisticians, Saltzman had established 75% as the minimum usable response. There were 1518 students enrolled during the fall term. All but 254 picked up their e\aluation cards at registration, but about 20% of the cards· picked up at registration were not filled out. Publish List? Twenty-two of the 254 who did not fill out, their cards at registration eventually filled them out at the library, but 33 students removed their cards from the library without responding. . Of individual co~rses, 113 of 3 22 (3 5.1 %) courses were rated by 7 5% or 111ore of the students enrolled. Saltzman expres~ed his desire to JlUblish a list of names of students who clid not pick up their cards. He said that the list include'd some· student lead~r~ who have been active in t;pe campaign for student rigllts. the Union student to his school and his school government needs ruore changing than does the constitution; but without a way of changing people, changing documents seems like the best we ·~an do. The creation of a tax comm.ittee that is responsible directly to the Senate is also an improvemen:f that could end the continuous puzzlerue nt around campus concerning the fa·te of the Student Activities Fee we all .pay each term. The new Committee on Committees would make it possible for responsible committees 1!!> he created, which would be composed of both senators and other students. This committee would also be able to regulate the students on student-faculty committees, \IVhich may be set up if the faculty is v.'illing. Negative Factors The retention of class dfficers (president, vice-president and secretary) is one of the negative factors in the constitution being proposed. Class officers have never served much purpose and most of the writers of the constitution f~vored their abolition, but the Student Council, of which the class presdents are voting members, decided to retain them. Their major duty seems to be running our famous festive weekends, a job which could be handled better by a committee of the Senate. (:No one could do a worse job, as the weekends in the past few years prove.) On Tuesday, when the students.are given their chancE} to vote on the constitution, my point about stadent apathy concerning their gove:mment may unfortunately be proven. As some of the proponents of the new constitution fear, attendance at the meeting may be poor. If it is, the constitution is dead, whether it passes or not. Publicity Useless! Publicity for the propos2l has certainly been adequate: since last September Concmdy has been reporting progress oa the w:riti11g of a new constitution. Elsewhere in this issue the text of the constitation is printed. On Sunday, resident advisors and fraternity house presidents ·IVill be briefed on the constitution in the l1ope they will discuss it in their livinjl'un'its. (That should be a preview of wl1at we can expect if the constitution goes through.) On Monday night IVRUC will broadcast a discussion of the proposal. If, despite all this pablicity, Memorial Chapel is empty on Tllesday\ we might as well forget the whote thing and eli.minate sttldent government. If students refuse ,to be a part of their government, 1he administration migl1ts as well rull everything; and, the thought of that alone should get you upset en()ugh. to attend Tuesday's meeting. Memoria·l Service A Memorial Service, open to the entire College community, for the 14 Iraqi citizens, nine of ill.em Jews, hanged as spies last weelc in Baghdad will take place from 7:00 to 7:30 tonight in Silliman llall. Gerald C. Sternberg, Preside11t of Hillel Counselorship llere, announced yesterday. Sternberg considered this ''an important issue to take actionon;'' and in a letter to be sent to President Nixon, Secretary William Rogers and Secretary U Tl\ant, Sternberg states that \men sl!()llld not be subject to the sicknes& of indescriminate murder.\ Sternberg further urged \the equal protection of Jews in i\..ra'b countires, as in all oth~s .... \

FEBRUARY 7, 1969 LETTERS TO THE EDITOR PAGE 2 FHEE WIT Co-ed Week beautiful will come. Ed Valentine · ~' 70 To the Edit01:: Union Belongs To the Editor: VOL 1, :R,epo Publlsned Tuesday and Fuday dur· lng the school year by the Stud<\nt Body of Umo~College, Schenectady. N.Y. Nat<onal Adverttstng Repre· sentative: National Educat>onal Advertis>ng Service. Inc., College Publishers Represent.at>ve, 360 Lexington Avenue, N,. Y. C. Ed uorial Office, Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, Whtte- hurst Prtnt>ng llr. Btndtng ro .. ·Inc .. 4Hi-4t8 Fifth Ave., Troy. 235-4450. Entered in the Schen<'ctady Post · Office as Second Class Mai'l Matter. Su bscrlptton 20 if a copy; $6 a year de hvered anywhere in the Unit~d States. SENIOR BOARD I view the proposed Experiment in Coeducational Living at Union with m1:1ch satisfaction. The Experiment is just that: a ch&nce for the Union student to experience a coeducational environment, and formulate his own judgements on it. Let me. quote briefly from a letter I received from a girl at Elmira, a school which has announced its intention ofgoing co-ed next fall: than one winter ·in the Schenectady area will see the logic impliCit in this plan. The g r a d u a 1 s hi f t i n t he climatological conditions from ludicrous to obscene has surely not been wasted on anyone with even the slightest sensibilities. Indeed I have often wondered why there are any upperclassmen in this institution at all, for the passage of one winter can be chalked up to ignorance; but to return cheerfully to winter after winter seems to Feek of sadistic overtones. For each course the student takes the p:rofess9r shall submit a two or three paragraph description or evaluation of the st·udent's performance; the evaluation will .go on the student's t:ransc11ipt. \We\ are th.e Student's Pass-Fail Committee. We do not expect faculty support, realizing that this system will mean more work .for them, but we welcome any industrious professors who dare 'lend their names and energies to our cause. Mrs. Harvey has agreed to be ourfaculty advisor. But ours is a stud'ent organization. Anyone interested in time to the organizational w0rk facing us, :contact Geo}'ge Hayman, 1 I3 Davidson 346~9126. We mge everyone to sUpport us so that we can make On ion the in dependent institution that it ought to be. An insert in a recent Concordy read \Union Belongs to the Students;\ this was also modified to read \Union Should belong to the Students.\ Does or shoulcl Union really belong to the Students? Perhaps my fellow students would like to examine their title to ownership; their tuition pays less than half the cost of providing them with an e due a tion. This hardly constitutes ownership under Federal Law. \fir« D. Peter Drotman .................................................. Ed-itor-in-Chief Ri~.:harJ Lew is .................................................... Business :vi:J.nage r\ Willi am Otuer .................................................. ~lanaglllg Ed it or Alkn Cartnc1 .................................. , ........................ News Editor Pa~tl And r·CWS ....................................................... Facsimile Editor llenry Fein .............................................................. Sports Editor Alan Kkitl.. ............................................... Contributmg Editor Richard Kram~r .............................................. f11otography Editor JUNIOR BOARD Bruce Husten ....................................... Associate Managing Editor Larry Friedman ........................................... Assistant News Editor Michael Swirsky .............................. .National Advertising Manager Jerry Levine ..... -................................... Local Advertising Manager Jeff Birn ....................................................... Subscription Manager Ed Jerome ..................................................... Distrubition Manager The Students ... \We the people .. .in order to fo~m a more perfect Union, establish just·ice, u1sure domestic tranquility , ... promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings ·of liberty to ourselves and our posterity, do ordain and establish this Constitution .... \ The Constitutien of the United States of America begins in much the same tone and direction and is couched in the same terms as that of the proposed Union College Constitution. Nevertheless the Union College Student Government is infinidy less earthshaking and ccmsiderably less ambitious. Before considering the worth of the proposed \ ... Quite a shock! The decision. was made very quietly and very quickly so no one even suspected that it was coming. That was the last thing · I expected ... The whole mess has caused quite an uproar around here. An amazing number of girls are against it. Many feel that they came to a girl's school for their own reasons, and they want it to stay that way. Others are quite perturbed about the way the decision was reached. The student body was never polled or anything.\ That Union should not jump blindly into coeducation, as Elmira perhaps did, is evident; yet the student body should not sit idly by whlle the Board of Trustees deliberates: we have been consulted on this before, and we will be consulted again. As with parietals, we must assure them that our views are not selfish and shortsighted, but conceived with the ultimate good of Union in mind. A responsible, serious, and, most of all, successful Co-ed Week is a necessity if we are to gain their confidence. I urge every member of the faculty and the student body who is seriously interested in this aspect of Union's future to cooperate fully with the plans of the Kessler-Merson group. At the same time, I would like to offer my support, in any way possible, to their efforts. Sincerely, David Robb, '72 To New World To the Editors: Constitution, we would be wise to examine the nature of the institution to be governed by this charter. The Union College student body, although it is seeming to trend toward diversification of late, is still fairly homogeneous in terms of goals. Students here, for the most part, maintain a professional or graduate school orientation. The vast majority are not particularly concerned about student government (according to an informal Concordiensis poll less than one-third of Union's students can name their representatives to the Student Council); and they are, very possibly, justified in their disinterest. The student government here, in the recent past, has not been of the most distinguished character and to dub it unresponsive to student needs and demands would be an understatement. However, this year has seen a marked increase in responsibility and concern on the part of Student Officers. Perhaps, they have realized the nature of the students they represent, perhaps not. In either case, they did perceive the communication (we substitute for the term credibility because of its starlrness in this context) gap between the constituents and the governing body. They very wisely decided to revamp the Student Body Constitution. The other alternative, naturally, would be to revamp the student body - a recourse of questionable desirability and This newspaper has served as the forum for many ''visionery schemes\ within the past months. With hopes to make Union College a better palce to live and study, I would herewith like to enter my own \Modest Proposal\ which I will endeavor to make palatable to both student and administration. To ameliorate this obviously grievous situation, I would encourage winter trips to Samoa, Jamaica, Tahiti, or any such exotic lo~::ale where the nipples of the native girls turn upwaFds towards the sun. In 0rder that the administmtion need not los:e money during the now defunct winter term, arrangements ,could be made to loan the Union College campus to Santa Claus and his elves, or visiting Tibeten monks. If this scheme is not accepted, I see the only alternative course of action to be a student-led hijacking of the Union College buildings and the reassembling of same, brick by brick, in Havanna. I would much prefer the first course and offer it with much sincerity. lam Your Humble servant Robert B. Chipkin Pass-Fail Dear Editor, Union College is an independent institution of higher learning. Webster defmes \independent\ as \being free from outside control ·- Self- governing.\ We came to Union because it is supposed to be an independent institution, but we feel that the present grading system is not independent. It is instead controlled by the demands of graduate schools and by that unflinching conservative mystique of tradition. We feel that the present system should be abolished. Two other proposals for pass-fail change have been suggested, both of which we find entirely unsatisfactory since they are merely gilded (and therefore gelded) versions of the present system. The proposal which we submit is the one which appeared in Concordiensis, Feb. 4, in Faculty Forum by Prof. Harvey. The proposal has the following stipulations: All grades The Student's Pass-Fail Committee George Hayman Larry Sykes Ken Jacoby Ray Krise, Jr. Hypocrisy To the Editor: I'd just like to take a short time out from the revolution to reflect upon some of the effects of one of our victories in previous battles. I am referring to the termination of compulsory convocation attendance, that institution we so neatly destroyed last spring. As I waited in Memorial Chapel for · Professor Hans Morgenthau to begin what was to be a very interesting talk, I was a bit uncomfortable at what I considered !U1 extremely poor at ten dance for such an ernrninent man. I was perhaps a bit embarassed that Union men would turn out on masse for Mohammad Ali and parietal changes, but that only a few felt Dr. Morgenthau worthy of their time. I remembered how often I have heard the men back in the dorm or house complaining about the lack of intellectual stimulation at Union College. I thought of how we had thrown off that heavy burden Last spring. Hypocrisy is heavier. I do not suggest moving backward. We've already seen that. So I will stick with the revolution, boreing as it seems to be becoming (reaction looks challenging), and continue to join, in my passive way, in the tearing down of institutions; ever holding the quixotic hope that out of the vaccum we produce, something truly But material control is immaterial to 1he discussion; how about effective control? At a recent, well publicized meeting ·~ of the Class of '72, the quoted attendance figure was about 40 people. This from a class of 460, ture student concern :for controL How many students participate actively in student government meeting, or even show an interest? On the theory that Union men. are responsible, we now have no general restrictions on parietals. To those living units who adopted unlimited hours, this question: \Was this action taken to demonstrate :responsibility or to facilitate your amorous endeavors?\ Union should belong to the students; we're very responsible. Fraternity parties are the essence of Union student responsibility; turtling must lead to an immense growth of a students manhood. One can't help but notice what kind of a responsible reputation Union men have at Skidmore. Union Belongs. Thank You, William T. Corcoran ('72) Letters All letters to the editor must be submitted, typewritten and double-spaced to the Concordiensis mail box in the Student Activities Office in Old Gym Hall or to the editorial offices on the fti:st floor of Bronner House. All letters intended for publication must be signed,. although names may be witheld on request. The Editor reserves the right to edit all letters exceeding 100 , · words in length with the understanding that the apparent intent and purpose of the letter shall not be altered. feasibility. ... And the Constitution We are, in general, pleased with the basic elements of the proposed constitution. We hail Representation by constituency rather than anonaly as the most significant and democratic of the alterations to be manifested in the In place of the current three term system I would suggest a · two term academic year. These terms would still be ten weeks long and fill what is now deemed the Fall and Spring terms. Anyone who has spent more Blither will be either ••Pass\ or \Fail\; Writer Explores Morals Behind Visiting Rights new charter. The definition of responsibility of Senate Officers and Committees seens to be in ()rder. And the establishment of Robert's Rules of Order &.s the new basis of parliamentary procedure in the Senate (we have no idea what the S.C. used) will, w.e are confident, prove quite expedient. However, there are certain tenets of this Constitution to which we object. Most important of these is the extremely vague manner in which the judicial branch of student government is handled. This very well may be ex.plained by the present overlapping jarisdiction of the innumerable· judicial boards presently in existence. We also take issue with the majority report on the need for Class Officers. These J?Ositions are quite meaningless, the posts useless and the elections thereof generally considered popularity contests. This issue gives rise to our final objection: why were no minority reports included in the charter? In all fairness., the Constitution ought not to have been submitted as a package deal, but rather should be voted on title by title. In conclusion and despite our various objections, the new Constitution is far superior to the one now in use. We, therefore, urge that all students not only attend this T-uesday's Student Body Meeting, but also that the new Constitutiol} be afforded overwhelmin$ ratification. Yoga - has come to Union - instructions will be given in all aspects of Yoga - This and every alternate Sunday from one to five PM, in Old Chapel. The fee is $2.00 for the four hour session - it is suggested that students bring a small run and wear loose clothes to facilitate in exercising. The Rev. Herman Williams has joined the Union Character Research Project. A graduate of Furman University, he will be concerned with discovering how people may be stimulated and assisted in developing their human potentialities. The new parietal hours are DEFINITELY in effect, according to Dean of Students Edward J. Malloy. Malloy stressed, however, that all previous regulations on parties and quiet hours will still be ent.orced. By A. RUSSELL JACOBS Let one for a moment lGok beyond the primary consequence of our new parietal plans, the expected sudden decline in the motel and hotel industry within the college periphery and greater Schenectady. Hidden beyond this economic cataclysm one might detect the true nature of our manifesto. We have in effect, with faint tapping, fastened another bolt on the tomb of the Christian eni\. 'The Judaic-Christian idea that the physical presence of women within an environment dedicated to study, meditation, or prayer was disruptive to the fulfillment of these goals has been overthrown and discarded. A change that began he're not so long ago with the end of compulsory chapel attendance and the diminishing influence and prestiege of a college • chaplain among the sttldent body has been further advance. By such steps within the academic world the post-Christian era has been brought closer. Now we are in the transiti()n stage, groping for new values and standards, to replace the old, new religions or resurrected ancient models, gurus to le2d us, or drugs to oscillate our minds to new levels of spiritual awareness. Yet it becomes constantly more apparent that our new values and standards will have no spiritual nature at all. They will be volts, a11d ·digits, efficiency curves, measures of cell permeability, embryological fate maps, D_N .A. codes, and chromosome counts. The doctrine of human dignity will be upset by new biological and surgical techniques that will be upon us in a short time. Perhaps the breaking point will be reached when the barrier of death itself is successfully challe~ged. Then, like charlatans tarred and feathered, shall Christians be driven back to the caves that sp-awned their theology. There is no turning back, we have opted for the future, the new parietal rules shall stand. Like the world of fashion, we have created and marketed a non-existent item. The no rule, rule takes its place beside the no bra, bra. How can one abuse 1 what doesn't exist! Let us then · acce.pt our responsibility, not to motels, or unwed mothers, but to the new age, accepting its implications and dictates, viewing our old illusions with a minimum of nostalgia, not clinging to them like paras~tes to their host. God is dead, soon to be joined by love, brotherhood, liberalism, even sex. When that first fair thing is escorted down your floor on a weeknight, let it seJVe as a re:tn.inder that our future illusions lie lurking in a lab, waiting to be plucked from some dark and odorous cauldron. Byl LastO • abolished UnHk expected made a \Camp· accorrtpa fraternit] pressure since lah At t Bo~rd state mer known: after iJ: charied conclud· W illiarrt~ dis pro undergr: result 1 purpose being f • \long C• the frat a :large . with r< eating : of the cause conditi· the ed1 College recomr assume fGr pr and so< . entire owned Colleg€ Altl ban J effect • implie fraten In · 'Repor to pu forme :, camp1 nine c volm remai meet two-VI seme~ They spon~ It fall,' admi wonc becc frate Tl Jques frate here term ''rush acti' resp< ',.app Tru « tr evid t1 or stab the .,coil· and n a i p e • org: , elm Sirr a c~ ph~ hac ~·has cat rus we \

7, 1969 valentine. 70 a. recent 1 Belongs was also mSbould , ion really :q Perhaps 1ldlike to 1wnershlp; than half ohem with .s hardly ip under ontrel is liscussion; mtrol? At ldmeeting he quoted about 40 ass of 460, or control. tude n ts n student er even 1at Union , we now 'ictions on iving units ted hours, this action onstrate facilitate )rs?\ mg to the ·esponsible. the essence ponsibility; tn immense . manhood. but notice responsible en have at fhank You, ~coran ('72) editor must written and to the box in the lffice in Old he editorial st floor of All letters tion must be mes may be ves the right :ceeding 100 with the the apparent of the letter hered, shall 1 back to the twned their 1ing back, we e future, the ; shall stand. e fashion, we marketed a The no rule, beside the no tn one abuse 1 · acce.pt our to motels, or ut to the new implications wing our old minimum of 1ging to them 1eir host. God be joined by d, liberalism, that first fair l down your ght, let it serve at our future lng in a lab, ~ed from some cauldron. FREE WITH CONCORDIENSIS VOL 1, NO. 7 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FEBRUARY 7, 1969 :Report from Williams. ~fraternities .Disappearing By PAUL ANDREWS last October Williams College ' abolisked all fraternities. Unlike what could be expected if .such a more were made at Union, not much •c amp us con trove t s y accompanied the decision. For fraternities have been under pressure to dissolve at Williams since late 1962. At that time the Williams Board of Trustees made a statement which came to be known as the Angevine Report, after I ay B. Angevine, who charied the Board. The report concluded that \fraternities at Williams have come toe~ercise a dis proportionate role in undergraduate life, and as a result the primary educational purposes of the College are not being fully realized,\ and the • \long continued el delegation to the fraternities by the College of a large part of its responsibility with respect to the housing, eating and social accomodations of the student body is a major cause of many existing conditions which are harmful to the educational purpose of the College.\ The report went on to recommend that the College · assume \complete responsibility for providing housing, eating, and social accomodations for the . entire student body in units owned and operated by the College.\ Implied Doom Al·though the report did not ban fraternities as such the effect of its recommendations • implied the discontinuation of fraternity living units. In the wake of the Angevine · ''Report, Williams has proceeded to purchase or rent all of the former fraternity living units on •• anti· intellectual\ and \homogeneous.\ With these similarities in mind, Facsimile ventur:ed to the Williams campus a week ago to investigate the aftermath of the Trustees decision to abolish fratemiHes. \Independent\ Houses We first talked with Jim Rubenstein, Editor-in\Chief of the Williams Record. Rubenstein is ais o a steward at his \ house,\ formerly Chi Psi, and he described the living unH to us in much the same way one might describe a fraterRity: a small group of meR living in a house which competes and cooperates with other similar units in intramurals, academic activities and in sponsoring social activities. Some of the houses even still receive funds from fraternity alumni. But Rubenstein was quick to point out tkat resident houses conduct no rush and exercise no selectivity in choesing new residents. He noted that this lent greater diversity to the group. We next spoke with Dave Mason, president of the Williams Theta Delta Chi and a leading spokesman for fraternities at Williams. Mason previously had announced that his fraternity would \not accede\ to the Trustes' request. No Proof \We don't agree with the substance of the decision, nor with the way it was made,\ Mason said. \The Trustees termed us 'divisive' and opposed to the educational purpose of the College without any proof or figures.\ The dea11 said that, although not perfectly satisfactory, the resident housing system held the advantage over frate-rnities. \We're not going to make any claims for utopias being constructed here,\ he said, \But we've gotten a lot of people iRterested in Williams because of the resident housing system.\ Both Viewpoints One person who could speak from both student and administrative vantage points was Jeff Jones, a 1966 Williams graduate who is coordinating the Williams- Vassar exchange program. The biggest change under the residential housing system has been in the sophomore year, Jones said. ''The tone of the sophomore year has changed-- in a way, the sense of inclusion and excitement of becoming part of a definite group has been lost,\ Jones said. B11t he pointed out that \this has causea the sophomore to be more of an individual and contribute more to the college community.\ Jones recalled that there was \large student opposition\ to the Angevine Report issued when he was a freslunan, but \then people started to get behind it and form resident houses.\ He admitted that it was difficult to say whether students favor the present system, but he guessed that they \probably do. There's not as much criticism of the residential system as of parietals and coeducation.\ Jones said he favored the residential system because it is nonselective. He said he felt that \fraternities today are in flux--looking for something to justify their existence. It's anachronistic to have this social-oriented group.\ FRATERNITIES; BLESSING OR CURSE? Shinagel On Fraternities: Times Are A'Changin' By MICHAEL SHINAGEL \When is Union going to abelish fraternities?!\ Since coming to this campus in 1967, I have heard this sentiment voiced in one form or other many times and on many different occasions-wistfully be veteran faculty members, angrily by independents, apprehensively by fraternity members. Fraternities constitute a prominent feature of this campus and therefore -they serve as a convenient scapegoat for much of t!1e discontent felt by assorted members of the community. Naturally fraternity members respond to such treatment defensively, withdrawing into the protective security of their houses and reassuring themselves that the criticisms directed against them are totally unfounded. The regrettable result of this situation is that no meaningful and productive dialogue concerning the role of fraternities at Union College can be initiated. Clearly it is time to put an end to this internecine antagonism and distrust and to begin to talk constructively about fraternities. Disappearnnce? I do not for a moment believe that fraternities will be abolished at Union, certainly not in the immediate future. The President has on more than once occasion assured fraternities that they will not be abolished by edict; if they do deteriorate and eventually disappear, it will be by their failure to respond to the academic needs of this community. The refrain of a popular folk song, ''The times they are a-changin',\ should carry a serious message to all college fraternities, just as they carry a portentous meaning to all college faculties and administrations. The events of the past few years on campuses across this cauntry are enaugh to convince even the most myopic that we are witnessing an academic revolution, the full implications of which are still far fn~m clear. The roles of students, faculties, and administrations are all undergoing major reexaminations and revisions. The roles of fraternities are not excepted from these powerful pressures. Justify Existence Traditionally the role of fraternities at Union, as elsewhere, has been predominantly, if not exclusively, a social one. Today such a limited role on a college campus is inadequate. A fraternity must offer more if it is to justify its existence in an academic community. Fraternitas or brotherhood-in Greek letter societies the brotherhood of a small and self-selected group existing in large part independently- ultimately operates at cross purposes with communitas or community- the greater good and higher ideal of true fellowship among all the members who join together in an educational enterprise. If anyone is in the slightest doubt about the avowed aims of Union College, I invite him to consult page 5 of the Bulletin. Don't Impose Rushing group living is an ebvious desideratum, the presence of 16 fraternities on campus tends to fragment the student body in ways that vitiate the ideal of communitas. The absence of a student center exacerbates the sense of divisiveness and, for many independents, ·of loneliness. l don't think the fraternities have made enough of a concerted effort to relate to the college community as a whole. Members of f:raternities, admittedly, are active in many campus activities and sports, but often they reveal a primary loyalty to their particular house and only a secondary loyalty to the College. ,, campus. Following the report nine of the 15 houses at Williams voluntarily disbanded; the remaining six were allowed to meet once a week and conduct two-week mshing the second semester of the sophomore year. They were prohibited from sponsoring social events. Mason complained of the \narrow-mindedness\ of the administration against fraternities, pointing out that houses had tried to sponsor educational events only to be denied permission by the administration. \We could have gotten Harrison Salisbury to speak on campus after his return from Vietnam because he's a Theta Delt alumnus,\ Mason said, \They said we couldn't do it.\ From Here To Fraternity Granting that fraternities will remain a part of Union and that education and the life of the mind is the main function of Union, we can examine specific ways in which fraternities can become a more vital and integral part of this academic community. The fraternity rushing system is a good place to begin. Freshmen are on campus barely two weeks before being subjected to rushing. In my opinion, and the opinion of most faculty members with whom l have discussed this matter, early rushing of freshmen has a decidedly deleterious effect on their studies. It is difficult enough for most freshmen to get adjusted to a new environment and to more demanding studies without imposing on them the additional anxiety of rushing. The period of rushing, moreover, is overlong, stretching from the beginning of October to the second week of January. I would like to see fraternities show more initiative and creativity in finding ways to make Union a more intellectually, culturally, and politically exciting community. We have in the last year seen some promising examples of what can be accomplished, such as the arts weekend or the po-st-concert gathering. Similarly the social responsibility that can be shown to the greater Schenectady community is evidenced in the program of sponsoring some orphans by hosting them at football games and inviting them to Thanksgiving and Christmas dinners. The pity is that we don't see more of these projects and programs by fraternities on this campus. Exchanges with faculty all too often take the form of tokenism iii a cocktail party once or twice a year. Fraternity-faculty relations could be much more rewarding if opportunities were found for an informal exchange of ideas through seminars or discussions of special topics. In short, much more can be done by fraternities to demonstrate their relation to the College and Schenectady community. All that is required is the interest and the will, for the resomses are readily available. Reexanrine;Redefme The next few years may well see a marked change in the life of Union College, especially if the decision on co-education is favorable and the promised student center is constructed. The fraternities will have to reexamine and redefme their role of social organizations if they are to remain viable parts of this academic community. 1 have been impressed and encouraged by the good will and good sense of the two I.F .C. presidents I have known at Union, Dick Amesbury and Dan Mead; and I hope that the fraternities on this campus will join with me and other members of the faculty, student body, and administration in exploring new and imaginative ways to help this College best fulfill its academic mission. It stood that way until last fall, when students, alumni and administration alike began to wonder what was going to become of the weakened fraternities. Frats Abolished The · trustees resolved the .Jquestion by recommending that fraternities \wind up activities here as soon as practical, terminating at this time all ''rushing, pledging and initiating activities and advising their respective. nationals as seems ·rap p ropriate.\ Basis for the Trustees' decision was \troublesome persistent evidence of either unwillingness I} or liability to live within the stated College policies governing their operations,\ and that • , college activities should be open and \not reserved to any dosed national or local self· perpetuating social • organizations.\ Williams College in 1962 closely resembled Union today. Similar in student body size, ' academic reputation and physical makeup, Williams also had 15 fraternity houses, (Union • -has 16) which dominated the campus social life and which rushed freshmen. Fraternities were being criticized for being \ Mason, by no means a fervent fraternity flag-waver, admitted that '\fraternities have got to change.\ But he defenced houses as an integral part of the campus academic and social life. He cited instances of fraternities sponsoring speakers, poetry readings and campus entertainment, and inviting faculty members for discussions. '\We fail to see why our presence is negative,\ he said. Dean Defends Decision Dean of Students D. W. Gardner admitted that 'I'm sure fraternities feel they haven't been allowed to do much.\ But he said that the interim between the Angevine Report and last fall had given fraternities a \chance to reformulate their goals\ and that they had had a \real difficult time doing this.\ Dean Gardner defended the Trustees decision: \We've found that students at Williams over the past few years have become increasingly critical of any kind of selective social group. I think if you look at what's happening on camp uses today, you'll find that fraternities no .longer have the appeal they used to,\ he said. Past parietals, past coeducation, past maintenance, one issue that continues to outlast others at Union is that of fraternities--their role on campus and how they affect campus life as a whole. But discussion on fraternities has always been fragmented--mal content freshmen berating the preponderance of the fraternity system on campus; a bull session among independents in the 'Skeller; a discussion at an IFC meeting; an occasional pontifical pronouncement from President Martin; a bit of publicity here and there on a fraternity-sponsored event or program. Both Sides Now In this issue of Facsimile we have attempted to present both sides of the controveny under a common heading. Not only is this manner of presentation meant to imply the willingness of both factions--fraternities and independents--to discuss the issue together, but it is designed to present as comprehensively as possible the many arguments of both viewpoints. A Look at Williams The Williams College story merits close examination when considering Union's position t o d a y .' N e v e r h a s t he administration in recent years even intimated undertaking a study similar to Williams' Angevine ReporL : President Martin has been content to discuss the fraternity's role on campus platonically while instituting no tangible studies to determine conclusively the effect of the fraternity system at Union. Martin Closure Two Facsimile reporters attempted to gain permission to interview President Martin and were informed that he had said all he was going to say on the . subject of \fraternities.\ We cannot, therefore, supply administrative answers to such questions as to whether Union could afford to adopt a residential housing system like Williams. Toward Change Fraternities will change. They will change their selectivity, their ritual, their rushing and initiation procedures, their academic and social contribution to the college, and in -other areas. But they will not change until they are sure change is desired. That there is a significant amount of extra- fraternity and intra-fraternity interest in working toward agreeable change is evident in our iss1,1e, we feel. Continued Dialogue But the dialogue must not stop here. We encourage letters or statements of criticism to us on our presentation, and we intend to follow up on the effects or lack thereof of our issue. In the meantime we hope we have at least initiated some sort of dialogue toward change. Defer Rushing I propose that rushing be deferred until at least the spring term so that freshmen are afforded adequate time to become acclimated to Union academically before embarking· on major social commitments. This would ease social pressures on freshmen, encourage class cohesiveness and class loyalty, allow ample time for examining. the pros and cons of fraternal living, and induce greater participation in sports and other extra-curricular activities. If it were not for complications arising from fraternity financing and College housing, I would argue for a delayed rush until the opening of sophomore year. Ideally freshmen should have an entire year, rather than merely a week, for what is generally meant by \orientation.\ Show A Secondary Loyalty Although the fraternitas of small \All Become Brothers\ Fraternitas and communitas are not necessarily incompatible. But it is only by achieving communitas that we can have fratemitas as well. Perhaps tltis is the true spirit that informed the founding of Union College and created the official seal, for it is under the laws and the shield of Minerva that we all become brothers-and sisters?-in learning at Union. D. Peter Drotman Editor-in-Chief Paul Andrews ....................................................... Facsimile Editor· Peter Weingold ............................................ Ass't Facsimile Editor Alan Klein ....................................................... Contributing Editor Bill 0uze~ .... : ......................................................... Managing Editor Published by Concordiensis Offices in Bronner House Phone 346-8614

Fraternities Begin To Modify Image: Some Diistortion By College Media? By BRUCE HUSTEN Obligations or no obligations, what recent undertakings have Union's fraternities made that have contributed something to the non-social life of the campus or the community? The question is one that should be asked by both supporters and non-supporters of the Greek-letter societies, as well as by those who believe there is enough merit in fraternities to help keep them alive--providing they take on a new image. ''Although we thoroughly agree with the opinions expressed by our predecessors,\ reads the editorial in last Friday's Concordy, \we are more interested in precipitating change than in outlining the faults in the fraternal ideals and mode of existence.\ Surprisingly, however, if one studies the recent non-social projects of our fraternities, he may glean that changes have already begun. To name a few, there was a fraternity-sponsored Black Power symposium last spring. Several houses have hosted orphans and children from broken homes at football games and Thanksgiving and Christmas dinners. Other houses have offered room and board to the college's yearly exchange students, and one fraternity has been sponsoring a Foster Child in the Philippines for the past ten years. Another house was behind the organization of last spring's Arts Weekend and is planning a similar happening this year. The accusation has been made that the current fraternity image is an unjustifiable one created by the college media wheich, in its time-honored tradition of being relentlessly anti-fraternity, has chosen to condemn the social side of the houses while ignoring the commendable civic campaigns they have to their credit. One Concordy editor, while not denying the charge specifically, commented, \But what we must ask ourselves is if all these non-social activities would take place whether or not the fraternities were here to sponsor them.\ His question, while neatly managing to avoid the original charge, is certainly relevant and demands some individual speculation. Assuming the original charge--that the college media has distorted the fraternity image--is true, one must bear in mind that both WRUC and Concordy, not be their own choosing, are staffed largely by independents. And perhaps that is significant in itself. A conclusion, then, that shouldn't cause too much controversy is that in order to survive, fraternities cannot be the same reactionary social institutions they were ten years ago. And these, therefore, are the ultimate questio.1s: Do Union's fraternities fulfill the same role today they did ten years ago? lf not, is the new role better or worse? If so, when and how will they begin to change tbat role? Pax vobiscum. FACSIMILE Fraternities' :'S~ocial Role ·~ Found Mundane But Vital·· By DAN MEAD Ed. Note: The author is President of the IFC. Fraternities at Union are social organizations. They make no pretense at being bastions of intellectual activity, nor are they uniquely aware of many problems and principles which those on \the outside\ may be able to see more readily. Yet when the word \social\ is used as an adjective to describe fratern.ities, the connotation given is that of a narrow-minded purs11it ofa good time at the expense of morality and respect. It is unfortunate that this description is so often used, especially when one mistake occurs, a mistake the papers are eager to emphasize whi.Je worthwhile contributions to the college and community often go unnoticed. War, slander and/or politics, crime, and death on the highways more often appear on the front pages than do advances in science and research. It's ironic that precedence is given to s0mething tl~at destroys life and not to that which extends life. This is the very same attitude that is often misdirected toward f~aternities. Good deeds are left to the self-satisfaction of the individuals while bad deeds are known by many. There are other examples, but let it suffice to say that a social fraternity has to live with the stigma and stereotyping of this mi s de fined work, \social.\ Social is derived from the word society, where people unite together for a common interest. That common interest, as some of us might think, is not parties and other cele·brate<il functions. SQdal Life When we are asked, on a rushing questionnaire, why we wanted to join a fraternity, many answer \the social life.\ The answer was absolutely correct, but not for the reasons which we too often believe. The true meaning ()fsociallife is that it is a medium of interactioH, where we rela.te to others and others to us. :It is almost like a mirr0r in that it reflects our own self- image afld the energies .and drives associated with tha·t self-image. Eacll individual can use the fraternity as well as other institutions ·Of life to test his stronger desires and at the same time identify his weaknesses and work to overcome them. The fraternity used as a means of self-realization often goes UNrecognized. Probably the greatest attrib11te to a brotherhood is •the subconscious working tegether in the endeavor to help each one of us to know ourselves a little better. Nevertheless, fraternities are caught in the middle of a revolution in which the distiRctions .and meaning of various instituti()ns are taking on radically different interpretations. MoJe and more the sentiment is growing that institutions ex:.ist only to help complete the individual. The individual does not simply grow into an institution which embodies timeless tntths. Herein lies the basic tension of the Ame1ican fraternity system, particularly that in the. Northeast. The future of American fraternities depends upon their ability to redirect their power and autonomy toward new ~institutional goals. As President Martin observed, \That means less institutional self indulger1ce and more commitment to worthwhile pursui.ts, a sensitivity to values ·that rules out even covert snobbery, a development of tone calculated to make the best of' each man's possibili-ties.\ This is dearly going to necessitate a re-evaluation of what is valuabl~4 in the fraterni·ty experience. Change Needed The basic change and emphasis which fraternities must • make is that they become more outwardly eriented. No <longer docs the Greek ri~tual itself make~ the fraternities a worthy experience. This may mean that they become more community ori·ented, hopefully without losing the internal commitment to the brotherhood. The idea of mm~y fraternity members that houses are sacrosanct and must ' be protected from the 'outside world' to be preserved, is an uninformed and outdated response to the present tenor of·· college life and society in generaL Those houses - regardless of · their inner ritual or afflliation - which are makillg ghemselves felt in the con1munity are the fraternities which are becoming stronger. To quote President Martin once again, ''All that is really required is for the . members to become collectively as responsive and responsible about the whole educational experience here as most of them are as individuals.\ If fraternities at Union can address themselves, even as social beings, to overcoming the various stigmas afforded them in pursuing a redefined course directed to becoming more relevant within the changing institutional framework, then they will go a long way to improving their collective conscience about both · participation and appreciation in the larger life of the world. The National Affiliatio·n: Fraternity Big Brothers By JOHN OSGOOD It is unfortunate that the vast majority of freshmen making a '\pro or con\ decision on fraternities are unaware of the benefits procured from the national offices and their programs. Very few realize the advantages ancl opportunities to be acquired through close ties with the national officers. ach ie vmen t. Scholarship assistance and financial aid fall under some fifteen different categories all of which the brothers have access to. At the moment one fraternity is in the process of a personal student development arrangement in which a • professor at Union may receive a cash grant for supervising a pledge program involving lectures, films, and discussions. Emphasis has moved away from the \hazing\ type initiation to the importance of the realization of the student's role in the world that he is soon to enter. A (C) Rushing Affair With Union Depending on the size, structure and initiative of a national fraternity, various results can materialize. Most all of the sixteen fm.ternities here at Union have academic incentive programs involving such awards as certificates and/or money. Counselling services by traveling secretaries can range from an individual consultation to a mass retreat for tl\.e chapter to examine any ofa wide variety of problems. Alumni corporations, undergraduates, and colleges alike have found the national office to be a good channel for direct assistance and production. Recreate The Image Another national fraternity,·· because of the vast number of its chapters, has assumed the task-project of giving $1 0,00() a~. year to Wallace Village in Colorado, a ho~pital for minimally brain-damaged children. By KEN WYSET Editors Note: The author is a pledge of Phi Epsilon Pi. Now that it is all over, let us talk about it candidly. Is this the end of a crushing love affair? Certainly not, it is only the end of Union's rushing affair. For the purpose of not overgeneralizing, I would like to equate the fraternity rushing on this campus on a personal, rather than a total-participation basis. The affair started the first weekend that the freshman entered this college. Not only with new academic pressures is the student greeted, but also with social pressures which he doesn't understand. Enticement Immediately he is confronted with sixteen houses, trying to grab at only his superficial qualities; solely to satisfy their own needs. The student is enticed with a beer party at one, oh, a cocktail party at another, a special bus load of very special girls, a fantastic band, plus many more special features with which he can identify the qualities of a fraternity. When he enters any one of these sixteen doors, not only is he rushed, but he is crushed by a hypocritical decorum that permeats the walls upon which he gazes. For the moment-\0 hi, how are you ... let me show you ... you say your name is .... \ Total first impressions, total superficiality: is this the meaning of the \individual\ that Union tries to distinguish? Anyhow, these sixteen doors become closed, the process of selection goes on. ••No, I don't like llim, he wears funny clothes, he talks funny,\ all of the most important qualities of the individual are discussed. Speciality But, meanwhile this is a reciprocal process. Special places become more special with candlelight dinners, with knowing of names, with special favors. Still the student becomes more rushed, rushed to make the decision of where he is to belong, crushed in his individuality. The time runs out, little slips of paper are filled oiit. The greatest trauma of the student's life is demonstrated on line one through four. Does the student now really feel that he belongs? Is he sure this was the right decision? The affair is only to continue. 'The student becomes a pledge, but pledged to what? Money For Marks A case in point of one fraternity at Union shows an ambitious effort in such activities. Its national will award sixty dollar.s to one member in its alpha in each class at the end of a term for a ·significant climb in index. The same national will aid financially, any brother who for some reason ·is not able to afford to continue his higher education. Aside from ,this, the senior with the highest cumulative index of his fraternity's graduating class receives a $200 check, gratis. As well as these individual chapter awards, national awards are granted on_ the basis of significant academic Still another national has recognized the benefits of student exchange and has arranged a set-up whereby a · Union student of its particular chapter may attend the spring term at Berkeley University in •\; California with no extra cost over the normal financial debt owed here at Union. For chapter improvement, a number of houses at Union have access to grants for improving library and study f~cilities just for the mere asking. These are a few assorted cases of the fraternities awareness to recreate their image and potential, subsequently placing a great deal more behind the fraternal. secrets, intramurals, cocktail parties and Greek ., letters. ~ct ll I ~ I . c ··c1 B Ed. chairm Comm On Interfr •Jike t< Lucas Analy _ ,Rushi ColleJ effor1 rep IE ... appre howe inaccu irrevel1 Th1 1968-J those .(Rusru the ex mealp ·5' Un4 of th; Lucas are ac1 progra any regula1 .... systerr that s necess; resour• ,, . ·mmo check.i fraterr ... a plu~ The e and e freshrr dubiot of fou it mi! By~ • Ar oppon· ..years . fratern their : But t1 ~text em se.lf-e}! anti-fr: its rele \ No' nation specifi; {memb4 have rc black-l with tl ... ln simply stud en of 12 'bnion of the Jewish '.< [n 1 issue i: frat ern \ .

J ... 1 ACSIMILE ·~ and more worthwhile y to values ven covert of tone the best of' ies.\ This is a is valuabl~. and must • more No <longer itself make<~ a worthy y mean that community without The idea of that and must ' 'outside is an outdated tenor of·· society in egardless of · affiliation - ghemselves are the becoming President ''All that is for the . collectively responsible educational of them fraternities themselves, beings, to ous stigmas pursuing a to within tit utional will go a their about both· in d. on: cia! aid fall different which the fraternity a personal Jopment which a receive a pervising a involving discussions. from to realization the world fraternity,·· of its the $10,00() a~. Village in .Spital for has of and has whereby a · particular the spring in o\; extra cost debt a Union have improving just cases wareness to and placing a behind the in tram urals, Greek ., PAGE FIVE FACSIMILE• Lucas Report Probes Pros And Cons Of Fraternities' Rushing System By PETER J. WEINGOLD Assistant Dean of Students and Director of Residence Programs Richard Lucas, has pre pared a \subjective assessment of the procedures and provisions of rush at Union.\ The study is an attempt \to consider alternatives socially, economically, and intellectually from .the perspective of the college fraternity, and student\ to the ~cost,ello Defends Rush· I taxity; Advocates ·change To Winter Term By PAUL COSTELLO Ed. Note: The author is chairman of the IFC Rushing Committee. On behalf of the Interfraternity Council, I would •Jike to thank Mr. Richard W. Lucas for his. report \An Analysis of the Fraternity _,Rushing System at Union College.\ The interest and efforts which this report represents are greatly ... appreciated. Unfortunately, how ever, it abounds in inaccuracies, contradictions, and irrevelevencies. The Rushing Rules for 1968-1969 are much the same as those analysed in the report • (Rushing Rules 196 7-196 8) with the exception of the deletion of meal preferences cards. Little Enforcement ·5' Under the title \Weaknesses of the Present Program\ Mr. Lucas lists several points which are actually strengths of the rush program. Little enforcement, by any I.F.C. group, of the regulations is made because the .... system is sufficiently informal that strict enforcement is not necessary. Since a fraternity's resources are much better spent '• in more cohstructive ways than checking up on its fellow fraternities this most certainly is ... a plus for the present system. The extent of the imposition and embarrassment caused any freshmen through Dorm Rush is dubious since it involves a total of four hours. At the very least it might convince a freshmen that he does not want to pledge at all. Reason for Change The fact that the rushing rules have been altered in some way every year since 1964 is not surprising in light of the fact that the college has made enormous changes in its academic calendar during this same period. The changes themselves attest to the I.F.C.'s desire to operate under the fairest and most workable system for all. The information about rushing at other institutions is certainly interesting though somewhat limited in scope. It does, however, make two facts quite clear. First, there is no trend or consensus in rushing procedures at the eight institutions polled. Second, the system at Union best allows for a comprehensive evaluation on the part of both freshman and fraternity. A recent questionnaire of House Presidents indicates satisfaction with the present rushing system. Winter Rush? However, a foreseeable change might be to delay formal rushing until the Winter Term. The Fall Term would be concerned with acquainting the freshmen with the fraternities' role in the college community. The freshmen could visit with fraternities, ask for help or advice, and attend social functions; however, no rushing meals or rushing party would be permitted. Rushing meals and parties would be allowed during the Winter Term, after the freshman has had a better chance to becom adjusted to college life and studies. The Winter Term would be operated under a very similar set of rushing rules as those we now use. Financially Expedient Financially it would be better for the fraternities with . a one-term delay ·in rushing. It would eliminate the questionable comment by some faculty members as to the overemphasis of social life rather than the academic life of college by the fraternities, and the delayed rush might enhance the social aspect of the Winter Term. A sophomore rush would not only be financially disasterous to fraterntites but would also create severe college housing problems for second year students. Even greater problems are to be found in the unnatural environment created by keeping freshmen isolated from such a large portion of the campus. Where would first year students go for recreational and social facilities? Report Welcomed The concern shown by Mr. Lucas and any other constructive critics of the fraternity system at Union is not only welcomed but encouraged by the Interfraternity Council. Together we can increase the relevance of fraternities to this campus and make them the vibrant resource which they were intended to be. Brotherhoods Do Not Discriminate But (· Do,~ Evaluate Personal Characteristics • By JE~rREY C. BROWNE A recufring complaint of the opponentsl of fraternities for .years hasfbeen the notion that fraternity' men are bigoted and their system is discriminatory. But through a combination of ~texternal demands and internal self-examination, the typical anti-fraternity argument has lost its relevance. \ Now none of Union's 16 nationals have clauses forbidding specific races or religions for {membership and most of them have replaced the traditional one black-ball system for pledging with three or more. ... In practice at Union, there simply aren't enough Black students to go around, but 3 out of 12 of the Negro students at ' bnion are in fraternities. All 16 of the houses at Union have had Jewish members. ':< In fact, the discrimination 1 issue is of little interest to most fraternity men. They defend \ . their right to discriminate for membership, but the basis for discrimination has been personal feelings. Just as the freshman rushing a fraternity decides whether the fraternity is the one for him, the fraternity decides if the rushee belongs in the house. In any case, the system is a voluntary one the freshman and fraternity must choose each other. CIVIL ENGINEERING SENIORS! YOUR FUTURE CAN BE IN TRANSPORTATION! Our expanding transportation engineering program includes on annual '-2 billion dollars in highway construction. No Exam ·Tuition refunds for Graduote Study. Se~ our recruiter on FEBRUARY 17 Visit your Placement Office Now for brochures and SIGN UP to hear the .full story, or write to: Director of Manpower NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION State Campus Building 5, Albany, New York 12226 present system of fraternity rusliing. Dean Lucas points out that the main streNgth of the present pmgram is the length of the rushing period, allowing students ample time to make a decision. The present rush also \encourages students to visit as many houses as possible\ and ret:J.uires that they visit at least four. Other strong points of the system are the notable attempt made by the houses to rush unbid men, the liberal depledging regulations, the social outlet provided for freshmen, and the funds supplied by freshmen to the houses for two-thirds of the year. There are many weaknesses to the present program according to this study. The token delay in rushing at the beginning of the Fall Term doesn't really accomplish anything, and the early rush prevents the development of class spirit. Also, the rush period is too long, with a \constant decline in interest until the second week in January. The Dean of Students office has little communication with the I.F.C. or individual houses concerning pledging or depledging of members and the I.F.C. carries on \no enforcement of the regulations.\ Comparison Eight other schools were drawn upon for comparison with Union with regard to their rushing systems. Dartmouth has a no-freshmen five-day rush at the beginning of the fall term and all rushing rules are strictly enforced. Wesleyan is currently moving toward fully integrated • GEN. BREW,CO., ROCH., N.Y. dorms and the present system of immediate rush will be done away with. Amherst has rather vague rush procedures with the formal rush apparently lasting only from the end of Winter term to the beginning of Spring vacation. Yale has no freshmen rush nor residential houses and the rush period is two weeks in the fall term. Middlebury has a one week upperclass rush prior to fall term classes. This !las led to some problems housing sophomores who have difficulty moving into fraternity houses. Franklin and Marshall has an extremely complicated rush procedure containing \nothing of merit.\ Hamilton rushes from after Christmas to the beginning of the second semester and has a system of ranking mshees. Rutgers has a good program. Rush is the first two weeks of the second semester with freshmen eligible and a formal sophomore rush in the first semester. Possible alternatives to our present system include immediate rush, rush delayed until sophomore year, rushing delayed two terms, or rushing between first and second term combined with a change in the calendar. Immediate Rush The immediate rush does the \dirty work\ of rushing before the academic year begins, it is financially good for the houses and provides a good social outlet for freshmen. However it's a serious hindrance to the academic e nviro nme nt, especially to freshmen. Also, it deprives the freshmen of a chance to become oriented and ... a little more exciting! to get to know enough about the school as a whole to make a worthwhile choice. A sophomore rush (before classes begin) would allow the students an entire year to develop academically .and wotlld allow for a class spirit to be built up. It also allows a year for freshmen to weigh the merits of affiliation or non-affii.iation. This type of rush would be a financial hardship to the fraternities, would present a housing problem for rushing sophomores, and would probably interfere with the freshmen orientation pfogram. Little difference is noted ~y Mr. Lucas between our present system and a system of rush delayed two terms. Favors Change Mr. Lucas favors a change in the calendar with rush between the first and second terms. The calendar change would mean starting the second term before the Christmas vacation. Rushing this way would not interfere with academics, would be a short period, would mean only those interested in rushing would have to stay, would limit the current rush practices of after football game <:ocktail parties and beer blasts, would provide for a fllll term for freshmen to be together as a class, would not affect the fraternities fmancially, and the loss of the inter-term vacation would not be critical since the Christmas vacation would be, at most, two weeks away. The only serious problem with this system is the difficulty in getting the calendar revised.

PAGE SIX FEBRUARY 7, 1969 FACSIMILE Beware of Fallacious Images: Grow Don't Grovel By HARRY MILLER It is my purpose to prese11t a comprehensive list of arguments against individual partie ipa tion in fraternities. I have taken the widely varied experiences of a number of people who ha'\le become disillusioned with fraternities and fratermi ty 'life. My viewpoint rests upon an entire exposure to a season <>f fraternity activity, from Fall to Spring, rush to depledg;e. It is my hope that anyone who has recently joined a fraternity or is considering joining one will read this article, decide if there is any truth in it for him, and thell' act accor·dingly with his go<>d judgement and conscience. Onus of Joining rigon>us schedule of West College, creating an atmosphere of dining leisure and ease. I suggest before anyone joins a fraternity he test the culina.ry arts of Hale House. Fn'lm these observations we can say definitely that if a pledging freshman so wishes, he can deny himself the erotic bliss of :phone duty and work nights and renounce the sublimities of hell-night and any other inanities by simply saying, \'no.\ Homogenized ·Brothers attached to fraternities which bear short discussion. Reports of dates being gn~ssed and, shall we say, untoward behavior are frequenL In addition, experience has shown an inch of beer on many a fraternity floor, which provides the triple boon of, after a few days, a refreshing bouquet, a loss of badly needed revenue, and a loss of good beer, soniet.jmes. Another fringe benefit lies in the stimulating games which are given frequent indulgence at fraternities; to name a few: Thumper, \Who Stole the Cookie from the Cookie Jar?\' Turtling, Pig Parties, and many others not distributed by Milton-Bradley. swallowed up, engulfed, a11d restricted. It is more difficult to say who or what has brought this about. Few of us have not had the experience of a conversation of clarification such as: \Yes Union. No, HOt the s·emiaary school. In Schenectady. No, that's aot in Connecticut, <it's in New York.\ There are endless variations. It is certain that fraternities do root help this situation. They are, for the most part, concerned with their ow11 reputation and rtot that of the college. The jackets and other items that hold a fraternities insignia us1:1aUy hold just that insignia, with no mention. of Union College anywhere to be found. By the very n.ature of their existence, fraternities concretely divide half of the s t u de n t b o d y in to 1 6 uncoordinated and rival parts. of the activities centered around orphanages, Big Brothers, and tutoring. One wonders, however, at the rate at which such measures might have been instituted had it not been for recent criticism to fraternities. Publicity of these activities should be unnecessary, also their execution should be their own praise. Aad certainly a fraternity is no.t necessary to these good works. Individuals with that interest in mind could organize for that purpose. In .addition, it is difficult for people in one fraternity to mingle with those in another fraternity. Union Dropouts of people who are dying to elicit · the precious secret of their very secret, secret password. Shhh. The attitude of some pledges~, \Boy are we gonna get those pledges next year when we're brothers,\ is of no use. D.im Future I see the future of fraternities as. dim and not very hopeful. If they are to continue, the best example I can provide is that of'· Ta1:1 Kappa Epsilon. at Colgate University. Here there is no formal rush; prospective. members can meet the brothers if ~hey wish. There is, of course, no pledging or hell-Right, or much contact with the national: ' One joins by simply writing his name on a list. If there is an insufficier:1t amount of space, the names are placed in a hat and' the members are picked at random. If fraternities wete the no n-discrimiaatory,. character-building organizations that they wou'ld like us to believe, sHch practices wm1ld be I take no exception to the concept of a group of pe0ple uniting themselves into an organization; this is a right which I would deny n0 one. However, when this concept is diluted into the practical functions and presumptions of a fraternity, I then place the str~ss upon the individual and the onus of joining upon him. Much of fraternity life is in direct conflict with an individual's own determination. Once in a fraternity, the subtle process of homogenit.ation begins, turning cream into milk. One usually chooses a fraternity by the appeal of its brothers. In so doing he usually seeks people who are like himself, whether they be pre-meds, engineers, jocks, etc. Of course, living with people who are just like yourself is not a very expanding experience. Four years of such living tends to aggravate the similarities to a point wh.ere coordinated speech patterns and similar gaits can be detected. Although it is never spoken, the stereotype doctrine might be paraphrased: \Unless you drink and swear and don't study like me, you're not really cool.\ Hence stem the frequent charges of anti-intellectualism in fratemi ties. The alternative to a fraternity requires no ,effort at all. The accomodations in the upperclass dorms are vastly superior, rides can easily be found, and parties are easily organized. There is no real reason to join a fraternity. The implications of this situation can be seen in many ways. If someone in a fraternity should come upon a fresh, workable idea, the lack of potential support from other areas in the college might very well prevent it from reaching fruition. Other fraternities will not participate because of inherent rivalries, and independents will be alienated. H can be said that many people drop out. of Union and imto a fraternity. For them a fraternity is a sugar-coating makiQg the four-year stay at Union ,more palatable. They rally to the sales pitch of \sewrity\ which fraternities sell so well. lt is no play on words to say that those in fraternities are \Dependents.\ Dependent upon others for their fuR. Dependent on others for their security. Depemden t on others for their personality. a welcome and well-heeded • suggestion. Let us see. Fraternities are not the leaders they would Iike HS to think, nor is their contribution · to the campus indispensable. Coupled with the fact that Ur:1ion will soon be going co-ed, they will be even less necessary than they aFe now., and I say if you have any doubts about joining a fraternity, heed them. · Let us begin with one of the most salient characteristics present in the life of a br<ltller and a brotherhoGd: the ritualistic festival know11 as \hell night.\ With initiaUon conducted in its normal fashien, a prospective brother is 110t allowed to exercise his uue creative powers. Rather he is being the instrument of someone else's wry originality; he is being forced to do something which. he might not care to do. Force can be applied by a loss of status signified by a brother's displeasure, voiced in the gently soothing counsel of '~Boy are you a turkey!\ \Hah Wh~t a candy ass,\ and similar instructive epithets. Force can be applied by a loss of fin2ncial happiness, when a student finds that vicious debts of m~my dollars have crept upon him in the forms of travelling expepses and tithes to the national fraternity. Accepting Condescension At this point it is necessary to clarify the fraternity hieroct2cy, the brother-pledge relationship. Too often have freshmen, in the process of rushing, sensed a condescending attitude: ·~If we like you, we'll let you live vtith us.\ Acceptance of such an attitude is ludicrous. In view of the fast depleting and indebted coffers of many fraternities, a meaty pledge class is essential. In addition to the fact that you, as a freshman., are paying for the privilege ofH-ving in the fraternity, the present brothers should welcome new life. The living conditions of some fraternities migh. t warrant investigation by Project Hope. Nor would many judicious epicureans take a ligl1t viev.r of the gastronomy displayed at many houses. Also the ,eating schedule to which one must adhere in a fraternity is bothersome and similar to the The homogeneity can als() be manifested and projected into what is known as an image, whether it be turkey, jock, animal, rhododendron, platy-pus or whatever. Thus people will say: \that's a jock house'~ or \that's a platypus house\. That an image is a fallacious piece of nomenclature seems obvious,. for not every person in a house is a perfect replica of the image; yet images are an integral part of fraternities. In part they all<>w a member to know what is expected of him, a norm of behavior. As a disadvantage, the image may cause an entire house to be blamed for the action of one member. This is not logical, but it is one of the trapping;s of an image. Stat11s Appeals T he image is also instrument~ in creating a feeling of status, which is both the most appealing and most i nco m;p re h ensible aspect of fraternity life. This status seems to be based on the fact that one has been admitted into the fraternity by a process, of exclusion. It might be more revealing to ask ·what were The specific positive qualities whl&h won acceptance for the member. It is ·difficult to express a term for this elusive quality. Perhaps one must be a flaming socialite or merely a witty conversationalist to gain en trance. Exclusion is certainly no reason for status feelings; not everyone is fortuned to be accepted into the Mickey 111ouse Club or Alcoholics Anonymous, yet those privileged few are not so boisterous with feelings of superiority, and membership in a fraternity merits no more status than these hallowed organizations. There are also some blatantly undesirable characteristics College View From the individual to the college at large, I must increase the perspective and view fraternities in that light. It is evident that the reputation of Union Co Ilege has been No one can dispute the value 1n general, I can say that a fraternity is an anachronism. It is amazing that fraternities have closely guarded rites and rituals. One wonders how the fraternities keep away the droves E·ngineers, M·athematici:ans: At NSA, our su.ccesses depend on yours. Because of the nature and scope of the National Security Agency's mission, our successes are in direct relation to your achievements. At NSA, we are responsible for designing and developing secure/ invulnerable communications and EDP systems to transmit, receive and analyze much of our nation's most vital information. The advancing technologies applied in this work are such that they will frequently take you beyond the known and accepted boundaries of knowledge. Consequently, your imagination and resourcefulness are essential qualifications for success. The Career Scene at NSA ENGINEERS will find work which is performed nowhere else .•. devices and systems are constantly being developed which are in advance of any outside the Agency. As an Agency engineer, you will carry out research. design, development, testing and evaluation of sophisticated, large-scale cryptocommunications and EDP systems. You may also participate in related studies of electromagnetic propagation, upper atmosphere phenomena, and solid state devices using the latest equipment for advanced research within NSA's fully instrumented laboratories. MATHEMATICIANS define, formulate and solve complex communications- related problems. Statistical mathematics, matrix algebra, and combinatorial analysis are but a few of the tools applied by Agency mathematicians. Opportunities for contributions in computer sciences and theoretical research are also offered. Career Benefits NSA's liberal graduate study program permits you to pursue two semesters of full-time graduate study at Jull salary. Nearly all academic costs are borne by NSA, whose proximity to seven universities is an additional asset. Starting salaries, depending on education and experience, range from $8845.00 to $15,000.00, and increases ... .where imagination is the essential qualification will follow systematically as you assume additional responsibility. Further, you will enjoy the varied career benefits and other advantages of Federal employment without the necessity of Civil Service certification. Check with your Placement Office for further information about NSA, or write to: .Chief, College Relations Branch, National Security Agency, Ft. George G. Meade, Md. 20755, Att: M321. An equal opportunity employer, M&F. Campus Interview Dates: FEBRUARY 21 national security agency I..· ,, . ) \ tiT I gOV€ poli •• facu con Stm nr 1 stud '~' yeaJ .. • ' • • • TIT j. Stm

to elicit · very Shhh. pledges,. those we're If the best is that of· Colgate re is no brothers of course, or national: ' his is an space, the a hat and' at wete the us to wm1ld be • not the us to fact that co-ed, I say if bts about them.· 1..· P ·PAGE 7 FEBRUARY 7, 1969 • ''The Constitution lR ll . . . a · ltS p.rOVlSlORS ' ) looks to an A CONSTITUTION FOR STUDENT GOVERNMENT \\' TITLE 1: PREAMBLE In order to provide a more representative form of student government at Union and to allow for a freer discourse of ideas and policies between all members of the college community including ·· faculty, students, and administration we, members of the Union •College community form this organization to be known as The Student Government of Union College. riTLE U: MEMBERSHIP The Student Government of Uniol! College shall consist of all students who are actively affiliated with the college in any given 'If year. TITLE III: LEGISLATIVE BODY Article I: The central student power on campus shall rest with the · Student Senate. .. • • ' • • • A. Responsibilities of the Senate . 1) To represent the various and diverse student views which may be present on campus;to.publicize them and allow for free discourse. 2) To authorize, maintain, and stimulate the various student activities on campus. (In order for an activity to be chartered by the Senate and .to receive funds from the Treasury Committee, it must .prove that it is providing a worthwhile service to the campus and that its membership remain open.) 3) To distribute and make use of the funds coll~cted in the student tax for the good of the campus community as a whole. 4) To maintain a complete program .ofsecial, cultural, and artistic activities for the recreation and enlightment of the entire can1pus. 5) ·To represent the students' views on certain issues in coordination With those of the faculty to the administration of the college. · 6) To oversee a student judiciary board which will enforce the rules instituted for the benefit of the ~n.tire campus government. · .· 7) To oversee and hear reports from the ~xclusively student committees on campus. .B. Membership The membership of the Student Senate shall consist of the folloWing: 1) Representation incorporates 1 representative for every 30 members of a living unit with an extra representative for every 20 students over the 30, ·60, 90 scale. 2) There will be a variable number of off-campus senators, the number of which will be determined by the following formula: The number of off-campus residents divided by 30 will equal the number of off-campus senators. C. Elections 1) Election of representatives will take place on the second Tuesday after the fust day of classes in the fall term. 2) Individual campus representatives will be elected by majority vote of the members of their respective living units. 3) All of campus students wishing to run for the senate· must submit a petition signed by 15 memberS:' of their constituency at least one day prior to the election. The Student Activities Office will be the balloting pl~ce for all campus students. ' 4) The erections committee shall officiate over these elections. They shall furnish proof to the senate that the representatives were duly elected by their respective constituencies. D. Recall A living unit may recall its representatives on it~ oWn initiative by a majority vote of its members. E. Officers 1) Student Body Officers: The officers of the student body shall be a President, Vice-President, and Secretary. ·All students, in good standing, are eligible for these offices, with the following exception: No student may be elected for office of Vice-President if he intends to serve his term of office during his senior year. a) Selection: The Student Body Officers shall be elected in the spring for the following academic year in a general Student Body Election. The candidate for this office shall be nominated by 200 members of the Student :Body in a petition. h} Powers and duties of the Student Body Officers. I) President -It shall be the PresidenCs responsibili,ty to represent the s1udent body and its legislative arm, the student senate, to all other legislative and administrative bodies. -He must preside at all official meetings of the student body and the student senate and will vot~ in case of a tie. -He must be present at all official consultations between student body .officials and the administration -He must aid in the implimentation of all senate action ~He will sit in as an adjunct voting member of the Board of Trustees Committee on Student Life. -He must report to the senate every two weeks on his activities. · II) Vice-President ' · -The Vice-President must be present at all meeting of the Student Senate. \ -He will sit as an ex-officio member of all student committees of the Student Senate. -He will sit as an adjunct member of the Board of Trustees Committee on Student Life. indestructable union. e e e '' Salmon Portland Chase (1808-1873) -In Cj!Se of absence or resignation of the President he will assume the duties of the President. -He will aid the C0mmittee on Committees in nominating committee members and in coordinating committee action III) Secretary -The secretary shwl be responsible for the reccnding the minutes and any official ·correspondence. -He shall be responsible for the distribution of these minutes to the living units and to publicize these meetings. -He shall use the p1esent means of communication on campus, Concordiensis and WRUC, to publicize the action of the sena1e. F. Meetings 1) The Sencne shall meet not less than twice a: month while class is in session. 2) A special meeting of the Senate may be called by the presiding officer or by petil:ion of one third of, the membership of the Senate. . · . 3) The Senate meetings shall be open to any member•of the campus community with the exception of the executive sessions. Executive sessions will occur by decree of the President or by vote of two thirds of the Senators present. · G. Powers and Duties of the Senators: 1) Each Senator shall have the power to vote on isspes r~lating to,campus affairs. . . · 2) Their primary responsibility shall be to communicate with the living units on the issues before the Senate, and to solicit &pinions ·and ideas to be brought before the Senate. . ' 3) They shall have the .power to act on committee appointlJ!.ents, the student tax rate, treasu~Y:: coinmitt~e allotments, calendar of S()Cial and cultural ev-ents, and m any other •matters which come before th:e .. ~enate !fl the ~ interest ·Of the community. '·. ,. Don't get cold feet. Some skiers can't resist wearing that bright new pair of ski socks outside their ski pants. Ancl that's where cold, wet feet begin. Why? Well, ski pants are usually water-repellent, but wool socks aren't. Snow clings to wool socks and eventually melts. Then the dampness seeps down below the boot tops, and your feet get wet, cold, a11d uncomfortable. Nothing wrecks a day of skiing faster than that. Experienced skiers know this-beginners don't. So 1\eep your ski socks inside your stretch pants. You'll feel better, look better, and you'll probably ski better, too. For the most reliable reports on ski conditions in the East, listen to \Ski Reports by Roxy\ with Roxy Rothafel~ the voice cf skiing. OnWGV Radio, 810 kc in Schenectady-and on ether stations throughout the Northeast. Schaefer Breweries, New York and Albany, N.Y., Baltimore, Md. H. Term: The Senator, unless recalled, shall serve from the date of election to the end of the academic year. Article II: Class Officers Each of the four classes shall elect its own officers, which shall be a :President, a Vice-President, a Secretary, and a Treasurer. A. Selection 1} To be a candidate a student must present a candidacy petition signed by at least 80 members of the class. 2) For any class office, if more than two students are nominated for that office, there shall he held a primary election in which all those shall be eliminated except the two candidates receiving the highest number of votes for that office. 3) All elections shall be by secret ballot . 4) The ballots presented to the . voters of the respective classes shall list the nominees in alphabetical Ofder. 5) Write-in ballots for students whose.names do not appear on the ballot shall be accepted. · · 6) The election of sophomore, junior and .senior class officers shall take place during the fourth week of the third term. 7) The election of freshmen class officers shall take place during 1he school week following the first Sunday in November. 8) In sophomore, junior a.nd senior class elections students shall vote in the class in which they will be in the following school year. 9) All students who are members of the Freshman class at the time of the elections shall be eligible to vote in freshman class elections. l 0) The Elections Committee of the Student Senate shall arrange and supervise the elections within the bounds of this Censtitution and its by-laws. 11) The term of office of the officers of a class shall be the same as that prescribed for the Student Body Officers. B. Powers and Duties of Class Officers 1) President -The upper class Presidents shall serve as voting members of the Committee on Committees. The Freshman Class President shall be a non-voting member of the Committee . -The President shall aid the Social Comnlittee in organizing major entertainment weekends. -He shall organize class meetings and other class activities. 2) Vice-President -The Vice-President shall aid the President in .performance of his duties and assume those duties if the President is unable to perform them. -He shall co-ordinate class committee functions. 3) Secretary -The Secretary shall take minutes at all class meetings, keep record of all class functions, and take care of all class correspondence. 4) Treasurer -The class Treasurer shall be responsible for all funds collected in the name of his particular class. 5) General Duties -All class officers shall, advise the President on all matters including the Committee on Committees. Article III Standing Student Committees A. Committee on Committees 1) Membership: The committee shall consist .of five members, two from the Senate and three from the student body at large. The three at large members shall consis1 of the President from each of the three upper classes. The Freshman President will join, when elected, as a non-voting member. 2) Selection: Two senators will be nominated and ratified by the Senate in the fall. 3) Function: It is this committee's responsibility to check the actions of the other committees and to report to the Senate on any inadequacies which may be present. It shall present a slate of nominees to the Senate for each corrullittee in which there is a student vacancy. It can recommend that the senate remove a student from his committee assignment if it feels that he is not fulfilling the obligations demanded of him. B. Treasmy Committee 1) Membership: The committee shall consist of three members, a chairman, a secretary, and a third member from the student body at large. 2) Selection: The secretary appointed to this committee at the end of his sophomore year, will act as such his junior year and become chairman his senior year. The secretary and at large member of the Treasury Committee shall be nominated by the Committee on tile Committees, subject to approval of the Student Senate. The Treasury Committee in office shall sit with tile Committee on Committees in making these nominations. Nominations for this committee shall be made in the spring for the folloWing year. 3) Function; All funds collected through the Student Tax shall be turned over to this committee for the purpose of distributing t~em to the various activities on campus. The student tax may be changed by a 2/3 vote of the senate. All allocations of this committee will be subject to the approval of the Senate. The tax committee is responsible te the senate and must report to the senate twice a term. C. Social Committee 1) Membership: This committee shall consist of 5 members, including one junior, selected at the end of his sophomore year, who will assume the chairmanship of his committee in his senior year. Continued on Page 8 •

FEBRtiAIW 7, 1969 PA:GE 8 \What's the Constitution· among friends?'' Timothy J. CampbEll (1840-~ 904) \ 2) Selection: All members will be nominated by the Committee on Committees for ratification by the Senate. Two members will be selected in the spring and two in the fall. The designated member, as stated above, wiU be selected at the end of his sophomore year. 3) Functio11.: This committee shall run the entire gamut of social activities and cultural events at Union College and will provide for social weekends. Most importantly it will co-ordiBate all activities 0f this type so as to provide a continuous range of activities throughout the academic year. D. Inter-Fraternity Committee 1) Membership: This committee shall consist of a repvesentative from each fraternity and the 16 fraternity presidents. a) Finance normal replaceme11.t and breakdown maintenance of plant. 2) Nominate student members at large 3) Make all policy decisions regarding financial and legal matters through formal dealings with representatives of operating concern (Saga Food Service Inc.) a) Approve capital.improvements b) Negotiate contract arrangements *4) Informal liason between student body and operating concern a) Informal discussion with Saga Fepresentatives pertaining to the quality of foocl and service, employees, prices, aclvertisement and public relations D) At least one .meeting of the entire membership sh;ill be h.eld annually at the end of the academic year for the purpose ·of: 1) Nominating student members 2) Acting on constitutional changes 3) A discussion period on the activities of the Board, etc. 2) Selection: The representative from each fratem~ty will be picked by the fraternity, approved by the Committee on Committees and ratified by the senate. These representatives may or may not be members of the Senate. 3) Function: This committee will deal solely with fraternity affairs. If the senate deems that any action. taken by the committee affects the entire student body, it reserves the right to declare it null and void and to discuss the matter under normal senate procedures. *This informalliason activity is not specified in the Constitution but is felt by the Board to be necessary and appropriate to, keep some degree of student influence and guidance in the operation of the Rathskeller. The board also recognizes that an excellent opportunity E. Independent Committee 1) Membership. This committee shall consist of three non-affiliated students. 2) Selection. Members shall be nominated by the Committee on Committees for ratification by the senate. 3) Function. This committee shall deal solely with Independent affairs. If the senate deems that any action taken by the committee affects the entire student body it reserves the right to declare it null and void and to discuss the matter under the normal senate procedures. F. ElectiDn Committee 1) Membership. This committee shall consist of three members from the student body. 2) Selection. These members shall be nominated by the Committee on Committees for ratification by the Senate in May of the academic year to act for the following year. 3) Function. This committee shall be responsible for all college elections, shall supervise the voting of the living units for senate and any other college-wide elections or referenda which may occur. TITLE IV: JUDIClAL BODY. The main student body shall be known as the Student Judicial Board. 1) Membership. The board shall consist of five voting members, one from each class, and one at large student all five to be selected by the Committee on Committees for ratification by the Senate. 2) Function. This committee shall judge all breaches of student conduct and discipline by a living unit or by an individual and shall decide on measures to be taken. TITLE V: AMENDMENT. This constitution may be amended by action taken by two successive meetings of the Senate. It must be presented at the first meeting and must be passed by a 2/3's vote of the senators in order to go into effect. . 2. This constitution may also be amended by a two-thiTds (2/3) of a vote at a Student Body meeting. The quorum at these meetings shall consist of a majority of the student enrollment of the college (1/2 of the student body plus 1). The text of amendment or amendments must be printed in the official student paper at least three days prior to the student body meeting. BY-LAWS OF THE STUDENT SENATE I. Preamble The purpose of the by-laws is to provide those administrative guides and functions which are properly the function of a student government, but outside the realm of Constitutional jurisdiction. II. Two-thirds (2/3) of the Senate membership shall constitute a quorum necessary to conduct a meeting. Proxy attendance shall only be considered valid if the proxy is a member of the absent senator's living unit. Ill. Procedures for legislation. l. By request of the Senate, all proposals requiring a vote of the Senate must be submitted in mineographed form, each member of the Senate to receive such a form. 2. Proposals and motions of the Senate must he numbered and filed consecutively by the Senate Secretary. IV. General Procedure. Robert's Rules shall be the guideline for actions and procedures of the Senate at all times. RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN UNION COLLEGE STUDENT COUNCIL INC. AND THE STUDENT SENATE The by4aws of the Union College Student Council Inc. ratified on April 27, 1962 describe the corporate structure of the Rathskeller; A) The membership of the U.C.S.C. Inc. shall consist of the 'members of the U.C.S.C. B) The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall consist of: 1) Two students selected at large by the Senate. 2) A faculty or staff member appointed by the President of the college. · 3) Ex-officio members: a} The Student Body President b) The chairman of the Senate committee on fraternities c) The chairman .of the Senate committee on residence halls d) The chairman of the Senate treasury committee e) The Dean of Students C) Activities and Responsibilities of the Board 1) Complete control- of all assets (cash and physical plant) F·unny how big you can get and still remain virtually anonymous. Somehow we've managed to d.o it. 'Ve~re a group of over 6() companies, making everything from microwave integrated circuits to color television. And we 1·ank num- ber 9 in the top 500 corporations in the nation. Pretty hot stuff for a nobody. But though you may not recognize our name, maybe the name Sylvania rings a hell. It's one of our companies. GE '. Equal opportunity employer. • t ,, • ' The Tammany Hall, New York representative inquind thus of the then President, Gr~ver Cleveland, as ~the two bickered over a bill submitted by Camp bell and comidel.'ed .by Cl~eland to be unconstitutional. exists for the formation of a student activity, whose function could be: 1) Making recomme:ndations ·c(mceriting operating items as discussed above 2) Planning the use of the ,premises for various types of social :functions and programs. · 3) J)evel<iping plans for future use ofthe 'Ske11er as a more. or,thod'ox \student union\~ ' Riders: 0 This conshtution shall gt> into effect two weeks following it's ratification ;by the student body. , . . 2) For t!J.e sake of c<mvenience and continuLty, the three present student body officen shall rem.ain in office for the remainder of the aca<lemic year 1968-69. Y au ~ay even live in one of our telephon~ company areafi. We operate in. 33 states. . . So h~~~ we are, 6 billio-n dollars stro!lg 1 growing . all «Jver the place, aud looking for engineers aud scientists to grow with us. . · \Vhy don't you think ns over with your Plil.cement Director? . ~ ' Incid~ntally, we are kn~wn in the com~ munications field as Gen<:Jral Telephone & Electronics. .. Pssst. Pass it on. ,, .. ·~· ! .. I ' J I '· i 'J ' . ' . ' B

1969 the a bill to be could > terns as of ,, a more v weeks he three fm ., ·~· r tt INFORMATION OFFICER: Gt!illaume F. M. van Eeden, the 1S~Jnic>r Information Officer at the Sollill African Information SetVice New York will speak to the IRC tilcJnday, Feb. tO at 7:30p.m. in 016. The topic will be: Africa's De:Siny -- Blackand/or White. BY STEVE PIERCE Political speeches have a way saying many divergent things at once. The reason for this :e't'JilliV,OCELticm on the part of our and their opposition is political maxim that one touch all the bases and everybody happy. Given built-in fuzziness it is easy see why commentators have a time analyzing just the speech was boutt-·-lexcept that the speaker down for peace, high pl~yment, low taxes, etc. However, once the speaker (or his ~bc>stvvrit,ers) will apply just the ~>m,nh·~~•· here or nuance there, that one can make a good as to what the speaker is thinking. was the case with BY PETER J. WEINGOLD Ri-<;:Jurd Nixon's Inaugural Acldress. In it, he came out mach more forcefully for peace th~ll. almost anyone had expetCted he would. Where was Rich:ard NiXon the hawk who wa:s so intractable on Vietnam, Ea.st-West relations and the \Communist menace?\ He most ce :r,t ;ainly was not on the pl<atf<()rm at the Capitol Building on January 20. :!r:J. disarming, at least for the rnomtent, his liberal critics with piu'ases extolling America's role as a peacemaker, President Ni:xcm gave some indication of the :kind of attitude in foreign affairs which he is bringing to threPresidency. lie stressed the need for seelt:ing ways to bridge the gaps which divide us from our fellow m:ari and laid down the fo'll!Jdation for what one hopes Se:minar Four members of the · Union College faculty and · three men from outside the college will staff a summer seminar fm socia:l scientists interested in international studies, fn:.m June 23 to Aug. 1 at Union. The seminar, sponsored by the Cenier fer International Programs and Services of the University of the State of New Y od, is open to college and ·Un·i ver.sity faculty members who have little or no t·rainirtg in statistics or quantitativ-e analysis. Thon1a.s R. Kershner, instrucjor in economics at Union, is the seminar director. Dr. Theodore G. SchwaFz., associata professor of electri~al engineering and directro r o:f information services at Union, will teach a course in (;Ofllputors. Dr. Alfred L. Thimm, professOtr and director of the Institute of Industrial Admini!;tration at Union, will teach statistics. Donald S. Hohnes, associate professor ofindustvial administration at Union, will teach game theory. FEBRUARY 7, 1969 ALUMN-I GYMNAUSEUM Prompted by a letter to the Editor in Tuesdays issue which describ~d the poor conditions in the Al:umni Gymnasium, the C oncordy research team unearih.ed this report, on those conditions from a set ef Committee Reports presented to the :llhtmni Council during Homecoming last fall. ALUMNI GYM 1. Coaches' offices and the t()t;al structure for both dficiency and attractiveness rniLSt be renovated. 2. Th.ere is no room for v-isitors to be entertained or ma.<le to feel welcome. We s:hould have a \Block U\ r~Dm where we can visit with prospective athletes and their parents, plus returning alumni, after our a.tWetic contests. 3. 'f oile t facilities are ina.deq;uate; male and female sluuing the same facility. 4. L()cker room facilities are Freed Man .• home team. We need a home team dressing room, a coaches' dressing room and office, and an officials' dressing room. 2. The press area for basketball game coverage is in a very poor location. FIELDS 1. Our athletic fields are not maintained well: (a) The watering system is inadequate. We partially maintain two fields: Library Field and Alexander Field with water, fertilizer and seed. Daley Field receives no watering but does get some fertilizing and seed. Garis Field is barren and rocky and receives no care at all. (b) The running track has not been tilled or surfaced in at least 5-6 years. There is very poor drainage on the track. (c) 'Ii:te baseball diamond is in ·deplorable condition. The grass infield should have a crown. to it and ours is lower than the skin infield. This is both hazardous and iNadequate. DARI TREET RESTAURANT YOUR CHOICE CHAR-BROIL STEAl< VEAL CUTLET CHICKEN ... $1.65 2049 Van Vranken Ave. FR 7-4261

Concord orts PAGE 10 Hoop looks to .500 After Tapping Bantams ' m,to 1ts press m attempt to break By JAY BLITZMAN And GARY PREVOST The pattem of play, neither scored f 2' in the second period the contest open. Boehmke and team establishing shooting or and 1PJO~dcled the Gamet with Katzman re-entered the contest rebounding dominance, Eesulted the cl'L1tc:hsl1ooting in the game's and Union r[lttled· off seven in a contest which never saw the final mon1e-nts. points in a row to grab the lead. Led by Bill Neidel's 25 point effort, the Garnet continued in their climb towards the .500 plateau with a 72-69 triumph over Trinity at the Fieldhouse Wednesday night. The Garnet now stand at 7-8, while the Ban tams fell to s~8. margin between either squad !ICeyNeidel Scores Perhaps the key play of the exceed six. Trinity resarted to a Neict~lV\Vas held in check until gmne was a Nei\iel defensiv~ full court, and at times, a zone the alii i.mp 0 rtant final five rebound, prov~ding Getman the press to harass the Garnet ball mitlutes Vi/hen he contributed opportunity to hit the first on a handlers. the btdJ< of his seven point one-and-one situation to make At the midway point in the prod\!ctLort'in the ha:lf. Bill was the score 71-67, with 1:32 to half Barry Katzman, who had not cold ill the second llalf, play. Garnet Hang On collected 6 points, picked foul con<:>e\'t·L·· n\\ , 0 \ t:l 1 ree of five and D b f T · · d Trinity entered the encounter with the notion that to contain Neidel would mitigate the bulk of the Garnet offense. They opened up in a man-to-man, with defens.ive ace James Wolcott assigned to the 6'5\ former Mount Pleasant star. With Neidel hitting on his first three shots, accounting for six of Union's first eight points, and Trinity's outstanding backcourt operative Howard Greenblatt scoring five, the two squads were tied at eight with 15:31 in the fint half. ,,, \' ~::> \' · own y our, nmty move number three and Dave Shames elevmof fifteen for the game, to within two on a Greenblatt came off the bench to put in six but :Ronald Cretaro did an field goal. With nine seconds left points and play strong defense. outstanding job of keeping Greenblat tied up Boehmke, With 2:04 to play in the half, Neidel f\1Dm gaining possession who easily controlled the tap. the sophomore hit on a one and of the 1b~L The ball went to Mumford who one to give Union its largest lead Viith 'Baehm.ke on the bench, collected a free throw to make of the evening, 36-32. In the Panalon.e began to score, and the final 72-69. Over the last first half Neidel hit Oil eight of Greeabl::att, who netted 16 for two games, Neidel is 23-30 from nine, scoring 18 points. Walcott, the evenil•g. connected on some the field, for a phenomenal 77%. his shadow, had departed excellen.tpasses.Thescorestood StevensNext midway through the half after at 5?-57 with 9:04 to play. The Stevens Tech is probably the being hit with his third personal. Ban•tams~~~pped.off fitve po1'nts t'n k h G '\ wea est opponent on t e arnet Trinity Press Hurts a row,. tOll a Cretaro free throw schedule, rivaled only by Drew. The Garnet opened the and two steals by the In last year's contest in secondhalfofplaywitha40-36 omnip.-esent Greenblatt to Hoboken, the Dutchmen lead, confronted by the Trinity achieve a 62·5 7 lead with 7:34 substituted freely en route to a Boemke Stops Bantam Trinity's leading scorer and rebounder of the year, 6'6\ Joseph Pantalone, was kept off the offensive and defensive boards and had his point prod11ction at the half held to six. Bill Boehmke was outstanding in this respect; his absence in the second half for almost 15 minutes after picking up four fouls in the first stanza enabled Pantalone to put in 13 points. press. Greenblatt, a 5'11\ to play. Trinity quickly went 91-62 victory. righthander who seemingly has a better left hand on his dribble, was instrumental in pressuring Union, and his fine passes and shooting resulted in a 43-43 tie at the 16;30 mark, and a 45-43 Bantam lead moments later. Union came right back on a Warren Mumford layup off of a pretty pass from Shames. Mumford, who was limited to two points in the first half, ~ ....................................... ~ ' ' I THE FEIN LINE I I by HENRY FEIN J . . ........................................ . The 1969 Garnet varsity football schedule was announced this week, with the addition of Worcester Polytechnic Institute highlighted. WPI will expand the Union slate to nine games for the first time since 1931, with the contest scheduled for September 20 at Worcester. Head football coach and Director of Athletics-designate George Flood said of the move, \I'm elated we're playing nine games .. .It's what we're capable of playing, we've got enough good players. lt ·indicates the administration is interested in athletics.\ Wesleyan, Trinity Nixed '\ . For the past two seasons, the Garnet gridders played a full-gai11e · · scrimage against Wesleyan the week before the season opener against ··- · St. Lawrence, and Flood tried to have the contest made a regular · game, but the Wesleyllil authorities vetoed the idea. A contest with ' Trinity was likewise considered, but was also rejected because the , Bantams do not want to play nine games at present. Flood said, \We're very fortunate to get the game so late .... lt usually takes two or three years to schedule a new opponent.\ \'; • Although· contracts in other sports are normally for not more than two seascms, football agreements are usually for at least four years, as is the case with WPI. Since schedules are thus static for long perioM,. it is difficult to make drastic changes. But with neither squad s4:heduled for the middle-September date, the process was eased. Although qot tonsi~ered ail athletic '\power WPI has fielded fine football feams for the past few seasons, especially since Mell Massuko resigned tbe head coaching post at Holy Cfoss to take the helm across town. Last year 1 Wercester rang up a fine 5-2 record, , ._ losing to Bates an.d Wesleyan wi1fr~defeating Bowdoin, Middlebury, . Coast Guard, RPl, and Norwich. ·.;,\'.f-S ' WPI _suffered its wotst defeat ~l}e season at Wesleyan, falling '29-0. The· Garne-t~ gridders had,:bgaferf Wesleyan in their pre-season . game scrirnrnl}ge,.. ,1,\g~inst .~I, Worcester Poly sneaked to a 23-21 triunwh two 'wee'ks after the.d Dutchmen d.efeated the Engineers, ~ .. , 24-14. Mi~d1~bury, who reel-l!qes Kings Point on the Garnet schedule .: · in 1970, fell to Poly, 25-20: · '\t.· ·--~ince M~ss4k~ oa:rrt'e, to Worcester four years ago, WPI has posted .,...r--; a 1\-16·2 r'ecord·~ OutiRg·.that s~me period, Garnet squads, led by , .· ,_ Fl6~d\,,ha~~r:lSi.l.S 1 ~ ~late. ' ' Tht!t.,~~st 1 ~the 1969 schedule is identical to the 1968 slate, with \:\\::' the locltlQg,s, of course, reversed. Home fans next fall will see St. -;;.\'.;' Lawrence; ~ochester, Hobart, and Hamilton, while the Garnet ... ·~ gridders will be on the road against, in addition to WPI, Kings Point, ' RPI, Williams, and Alfred. Cheers For Schmid Not enough can be said for Coach Chris Schmid and his Garnet hoopsters. Counted out by almost everyone, including this writer, after pre-season dissention and injuries weakened the squad, the cagers have now won their second straight to move to 7-8 for the season. With relatively weak Stevens, St. Lawrence, and Clarkson next on the .schedule, the hoopsters could move above .500 for the first time. With six games yet to be played, much can still happen, but Schmid deserves a hand. He has moulded a fine squad that should finish very near .500. After last year's dismal 8-12 record and this year's early problems, that is quite an accomplishment. frosh Hoopsfers Snap !F~o t~r-Game Loss Skein By HANK LEVINE tl11ion\'s freshman hoopers explbded' out of a four-game losing s-treak to completely dominate Trinity Wednesday night :in: the Fieldhouse. The frosh. d.ispelled any doubts about their teat11work as they put on an ex-cellent show on both offens~ amd defense. :Sdb P\ezzano who started at Hoc\ey Faces Han1 i'l t() n Sat. By>~ILL HOLLERAN the H10ckey Club will play their f§.rsi garne of the season tornorrtOIV afternoon, as the puclcsters travel to Clinton to face lilamdlton 's junior varsity, in a game starting at 4 p.m. at Hanultc:>n 's Sage Arena. Wedme sday's late-night practice on RP.L ice was the sixth_ •\'Workout for the skaters in two v.!eeks, and saw club president Rick Miller finally decidi~g on the starting line-up for Satur da.y's contest. The club will t:ake a total of fifteen player!> io Hamilton, carrying three offensive lines, four defense1~en, and two goalies. S2turday's contest will mark the first of six. games for the pucksters before the end of MarciL Another game is slated against Haillilton, and the skaters: ~ill also clash with the Willilllils fresh, with the R.P J. Hocl<ey Club (composed of pl~yers \7/lw failed to make the Engineer varsity), and twice with lJ tica (;(} lle ge _ rhe Union skaters are far from ;poessirnistic about their chances for a victory tomorrow. Right ,IVillger Emerson Martin said unabasludly, \We should b ea. t t hem ,'' while Miller cotnm.en ted, \We're pretty good, and ·if wre score goals, we'll beat them.\'' .. P-o11.1n to Louis', let us go, L-et ti1e· lager freely flow. the forward spot in place of Rich Goldberg., and Dick Davis did excellent jobs grabbing rebounds and setting up baskets. Union forced Trinity into many turnovers, coverting them into baskets. The Bantam frosh shot poorly throughout-the game, but the Garnet were hot from the start, and took a 20-9 lead with 13 minutes left in the first half. From there on, it was all Union. The Dutchmen worked the ball around waitiHg for the good shot, usually by Howie DeLuca or Jim Tedisco, while forcing turnovers at the other end of the court. Enough Cllilnot be said about the board control by Union's forwards. This enabled the young Dutchmen. to repeatedly take two or three attempts at. each basket. At the half, the score was Union 58 Trinity 27. Dick Davis led the Garnet for a good deal of the second half with his exceptional board control and offensive effort. With more thai1 six minutes to go in the game, Coach Brown yanked most of his starters to give the rest of the ball club some playing time. Union was still able to keep control of the game, with the final score Union 98 Trinity 72. , Jim !edisco was high man for the Garnet with 26 points. Howie DeLuca ca~hed in 19 with Dick Davis adding 13 and Rich MacLeod 12. Now's The Time To MARRY 'ME David and Jult<> havE' donE' it. How Al;>out Yuu. Tricky Dickie Buy your Wedding Ring at Maurice Graubart & Sons, J ewel<'rs.' 166 J av St. Serving Union for 3 generations. A Ull1ique place to dine with old European Atmosphere R.ESTAU.RANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. NOW IN OUR 14th V EAR For reservations phone FR 4-8917 FEBRUARY 7, VOL. 98, I NEW YOR Eric Ande1 Carolina w Chronicle. thus far ha' Ju1 Ovt By \The pr opportuni :;,. experience be availabl• Olton, Dire Education r some deta PROVIDENCE VS NIAGARA Be sure t0 watch this exciting game-televised live pnd in' color while you're enjoying the action, enjoy bright, rewarding Schaefer -the one beer to have when you're having more than one. I' Project, jus1 Students choose a J1 Comp. Ed. mainly 2 subjects i\ Schenectad· Science an( Nations\. ,, '(; Ove1 The mai concerns ov the seminal No~ Saba Cons Since o this m< concernir constitutio 370 was n unable to l Walter committee constitutic Body takel they are administra changes i1 College.\ The S Edgar R1 meeting i: Council P and Vice ,, who are : l' LIVE & IN COLOR·2:00 PM·WTEN-TV CH 10 c ( recent sr constituti1 forward devided governmer Schaeler Brew~:me,s. New York and Albarly, NY, .Ball• more. Md When 11 a quorum c committe' turn-out p the studer Former ,, \' Daniel Z. of the expressed d C· do the rig!

Founded at Union College l877 VOL 98, NO. 28 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FEBRUARY 11, 1969 \A Causa Persa Parole Assai\ PRICE TWENTY CENTS Ketz Publishes Maintenance Report; Calls For Present Flexible Pattern NEW YORK ROCK & ROLL ENSEMBLE: The group, to be performing with Eric Anderson in the Chapel Saturday night, will be flying in from North Carolina where they recently received rave reviews in the Duke University Chronicle. According to Tax Committee Chairman Craig Youner, ticket sales thus far have been excellent. ' By STEVE LEVY The faculty today received Wilford Ketz's report on the maintenance system. The report supported retention of the present system with some minor alterations. Ketz stated \if stuclents ·overwhelmingly prefer a s tructcmd pmgram of the kind common elsewhe1re, it can of course be supplied, lmt I recommend retention of the present flexible and open maintenance pattern.\ The changes Ketz recommends would come in the grading and time requirement and >in the physical fitness tests, while the proficency sports tests, the water survival test would be retained. The report suggests g~ades be discontinued and students be required to complete 120 \attendances\ at their own pace in a period from three terms ( 4 times per week) to twelve terms (one time per week). When the student completes the required Junior YearComp.Ed. Reviewed: Overcrowding~ Useless Work Hit By STUART NESLIN \The project is meant to be an opportunity for an academic experience that would otherwise not be available,\ said Prof. Charles S. Olton, Director of the Comprehensive Education Program, as he explained of the project were created. Most classes average about 18 students. observation of laboratory techniques for criminal investigations. Projects Abroad number, a notation 'Physical Education Completed\ would be entered or~ his record. Ketz urged physical fitness tests be given, however, only to the entering class. Freshman unable to pass \a WILFORD H. KETZ Chairman of the Cym Department, who suggested some modifications in the physicaK education requirement. reasonable test now set at an average of the 50th percentile on the national scale would be scheduled for improvement of their motor ability for a maximum of one term.\ The body building class at present may extend to 5 of the 9 required terms. two recreational sports. He cited the tests \simply teii whether or not the studel'l t has sufficient knowledge of the sport and sufficient skill in playing it to give some assurance that he can later play and· enjoy it if he chooses to.\ The eight page report states the present system of physical education at Union College was instituted in 1962 replacing a \fully structured\ two year, three periods a week program, based on a series of four-week classes in speed ball cross country, boxing, wrestling, swimming, basketball, softball and tennis. All classes in the previous program began with 10 minutes ofcalisthenics. The Ketz report states the primary function of a physical education program is to contribute to health where \health is defined as 'manifestation of a wholly integrated personality. It is not meant to make muscle men: neither is it designed to produce addicted sportsmen.\ Ketz cites two secondary purposes of physical education as the encouragement of students to \develop recreational skills which they can practice with satisfaction as ad u 1 t s,\ and as \having direct socializing values that are often to little appreciated.\ r r' some details of the Junior Year Project, just established this year. A student involved in a project with field work complained he was nothing but a glorified file clerk. In many cases, students in the program cannot realize the relevance of the course material until the end of the project. One project, 'Justice in Schenectady', is currently in progress. Typical of other projects, 'Justice in Schenectady' includes independent study coupled with some group The Junior Year Project is not necessarily limited to the Union College campus. During the spring term, a group will conduct their project in Vienna, Austria. A similar group is planned for next fall, to study in Reims, France. Another project, \A Comparative Study of Poverty in New York and West Virginia\ will spend the fall term at Concord College in West Virginia. The report recommends retention of the water survival test and requirement that students to pass a five minute water survival test enroll in an elementary swimming course. In countering the argument that physical education is not the concern of the college or university he offers the \double answer that physical health contributes directly to mental health and that colleges and universities are expected to show concern for physical health on other scores (sanitation, quality of food, medical care and so on) and can reasonably look on physical education as simply a part of that proper concern.\ Students in their junior year must 1 , choose a Junior Year Project to meet Comp. Ed. requirements. The projects, mainly 20-week courses, include subjects from \Justice in Schenectady\ to \The Impact of Science and Technology on Emerging Nations\. Overcrowding Criticized The main criticism of the program concerns overcrowding. To conform to the seminar situation, fifteen sections No Quorum Sabotages Constitution Since only 202 students attended this morning•s convocation concerningthe proposed student constitution, the necessary quorum of 370 was not obtained and a vote was unable to be taken. , Walter Spencer, a member of the committee which formulated the new constitution said, \until the Student Body takes action on this constitution, they are in no position to ask the administration to make any basic changes in the structure of Union College.\ ·• '(:. The Student Council Secretary Edgar Rundell, who chaired the meeting in the absence of Student Council President Russell C. Manker color CH10' d and Vice president James Stillman, ,, who are stranded in Boston by the l• recent snow storm, stated, \the constitution is a necessary step forward in streamlining the now devided and cumbersom student government.\ When he realized that there was not a quorum present, Stu Rubin, a second committee member, noted, \this turn-out proves the amazing apathy of the students to student body affairs.\ Former Student Council Secretary Daniel Z. Aronzon, the third member of the constitutional committee, expressed the \hope that the students C· do the right thing.\ discussion and instruction. Co-Leader of the project, Professor William J. Daniels, combines library work with field work if desirable. \We let the student view the process; he decides for himself whether or not it is justice\. Field work may include study of courtroom procedure, or More Blacks Criticism is not unknown to any program at Union, and as the projeCt is new, it has gotten its share. The Board of Comprehensive Education, a faculty-student venture, is aware of the problems facing the project, and it is attempting to solve them. Admissions Applications Rise Confirming a rumor that applications for admission to Union College have risen this year, Director of Admissions Jonathan Pearson III yesterday released information on applications received. An upsurge in applications this year has ended a ten year gradual decline, Mr. Pearson said. As of February 10, 1,786 applications had been received compared to 1 ,606 last year. There is no one reason for the increase. Possible contributions include interest in the new science complex being built, wider recruitment, and a winning season for the football team. Pearson said many applicants, when asked to comment on what interested them in Union, mentioned the three-term school year. More than 50 of the applications are from black students. In a speech before the convocation Aronzon proposed an arnmendment to remove three \controversal\ sentences from the constitution. The sentences concern the proposed Student Senate's right to intervene in Fraternity or Independent Committees' action. Rundell, in making the announcement that there was not a quorum present, said that a new meeting would be held in the near future. Immediately following that announcement most of the 202 students present left the Chapel. - JONATHAN PEARSON HI: Director of Admissions announced a trend reversing upswing in applications for the class of'73, yesterday. May On Campus In addition to his lecture in Memorial Chapel Wednesday night at 8:00, Rollo May will have an interview with the Idol Wednesday at 4:30. Those students interested in participating should contact Bruce Chackleton at 372-2018. In addition, May will meet with an invited group of students Wednesday night after his lecture. Ketz also urged retention of the proficiency tests which require a student to pass a test in basic skills of Sigma Chi Screens Atheists? Pl~dge Alleges Requirement By LARRY FRIEDMAN Concordiensis learned yesterday that Sigma Chi fraternity requires its pledges to sign a statement as to whether or not they believe in \the existence of a true and ever-living God, tile creator and preserver of all things.\ A pledge informed this reporter that when he asked the rushing chairman if an affirmative reply to the above question was necessary, he was told it was; and that in previous years, the failure of pledges to answer affirmatively had resulted their exclusion from the chapter. .. Have Basic Requirements\ When questioned about this, Sigma Chi rushing chairman, Richard Rosener replied, \we have basic requirements for our pledges.\ He was then asked if a belief in God was one of those requirements. Rosener said, \I'm not sure how to answer that question.\ Sigma Chi President, Brian Crandall, however stressed that the question had never been used to discriminate. \Sigma Chi was founded [)fl Christian beliefs--that's why it is on the pledge statement. It's a tradition, one that we have never bothered to change_,, Former Dean of Students, Charles Olton noted that he had looked into fraternity discrimination last year, but that he had been concentrating mainly on racial, rather than religious, matters. Will Check Matter When asked about the matter, Dean of Students Edward J. Malloy said he would have to look into t]<e question before commenting. Assistant Dean Richard Lucas said he will check into it, and if the question proves to be discriminatory, he will ask Sigma Chi to rectify it. A complete survey of the campus fraternities was made, and all stated they had no comparable clause or statement required of their pledges except Phi Gamma Delta which refused to comment entirely. Contest A Causa has been pursued and Parole assigned but so far only 33 entites to the Concordy translation contest have been received. The latest batch includes a few that look good to the Editors and it is rumored that a large shipment is en rou tc from Canajoharie. Potential Winners now include a couplet in Old English, a ballad in basque and a limerick in esperanto. An entry which was scored for mixed chorus and string orchestra has been returned as impractical. The prize list has been expanded to include 255 unredeemed sets of computer punrh cards only used by a student course evaluation group to cause an uproar on Sundays. Enter now. Contest clos~s February 28th.

PAGE 2 Olnuror Publlsned Tuesday and Fnday dur· lng the school year by the St urlent Body of UmonCollege, Sch<>nect·ad\·. N.Y. Nat·l'On~l AdvertiSing Repre- sent at 1ve: N at1onal Edur alaonal A.dvert1s1ng Serv1ce, Inc .. Col'lege Publishers Repres,entat.tve-. 360 LPx1ngton Avenue. N .. \'. C, Ed 11 anal Of flee, 0 ld Gym, Umon College. Publlcoltlon Office. Wh1te· hurst Pn.ntlng & Btnd1ng Co., Inc,. 416-418 F1fth Ave •. Troy. 23'5-4450. :EntE>red l·n the SL·henectady Post Of!J·ce as Second Class Mad Matter. Subscnptwn 20¢ a copv; $'6 a year del.Jvered anywhere 1n th(> Unttt•d States. SENI{JR HOARD ll. l'etn Drotlllilll. ... RtchJ·IJ Lewt~ .. . \hll!alll Outer .. . Alkn Cartlll'I ............. .. bul AndJL'Ws ... . llenry h.:i11 ............ . Alan Kk11L Riel! art! K1 amcr . .... .... ......... . Edttor·lll-l'IIIL'f .Busine'~ \1Jnagerl \lan.I!!lll~ Ldttor ...... t-..\e\V~ l:ditor ...... LH;sunik Ld1tur . ...... ... Spurts hi1tor ContiJhu·tlllL' Lditor .. ..ft:l)tupap!J\ b.litor JUNIOR HOARD Bruce Husten ..... _ ................................. Associate Managing Editor Larry Friedman ........................................... Assistant News Editor Michael Swirsky·-···-......................... National Advertising Manager Jerry Levine ......................................... Local Advertising Manager Jeff Birn ....................................................... Subscription Manager Ed Jerome .......................... -........................... Distrubition Manager Where is Linebacker! Linebacker, Union College's erstwhile student course evaluation poll, has, for the second time in as many terms, failed to go to press. Linebacker was nol even attempted last spring in anticipation of the difficulties involved in harvesting the needed data from hundreds of vacationing students and graduating seniors. Linebacker will not even be attempted this winter because of the difficulties involved in harvesting the needed data from hundreds of disinterested Htudents and apathetic se:niors. According to Linebacker Editors, the 66.1 per cent return of course evaluation polls falls short of the minimum 75 per cent response which would have made Linebacker's conclusions statistically valid. It was on this basis and in spite of a 75 per cent or greater response in l I:-i of the 322 courses offered last term, that the editors eancelled the fall term evaluation_ W c have great difficulty in trying to understand the critic tradition thus far f'stablislwd by Li1whaeker f'ditorial boards. The first Linebacker (Fall, 1967) established 33 per cent as its minimum response for a valid evaluation. That first Linebacker was judged, and rightfully so, as a trial run; and it was assumed that many improvements would be made. In wint~r, 1968, Linebacker was computorized. In a veri table flood of enthusiasm, 86 per cent of Union's students responded to the newly revised poll. The job was generally considered well done, but lack of funds and a plethora of data limited the extent of the Lincbackrrs publishing capability. As a result only one copy of the data was made available to the entire student body (in the Library) and the pamphlet distributed to students was generally considered quite worthless, inasmuch as it merely included short blurbs about each COUfS!'- ln summary then, Linebacker has published two issues which were, to say the least, not vrry highly reviewed; and has deleted two others. It is our belief that a publication i'mch as Linebacker, by its very nature and the significance of the conclusions drawn not only by students in selecting thf'ir courses, but also by tlw pC'opk who hirf', fire, and grant tenurr to the personnel of Union College, has certain responsibilities to the College community. In order to have even any positive 'impact on the College community, Linebacker must be a rt~gularly published entity. WI:'., therefore, urge eitht~r of the only two feasible courses of action for Linebacker, as we see th!~m: either publish for fall term, l968 the data for the 113 statistically valid course evaluations, or allow Linebacker, very simply, to die. But Linebacker must not, and indeed cannot, continue its tradition of erraticism. VIP LOUNGE ANNOUNCES SOUR HOUR WEONESDAYS & FRIDAYS q-G BEHIND LAODS COLLEGE STREET Acme Barber Shop 509 Union Street hperienced Barbers Nearest to Union College Students FEBRUARY 11, 1969 fEBRUARY LETTERS TO THE EDITOR I To the Editor: As a member of the college fraternity community, I welcome and applaud the efforts of FACSIMILE to instigate an open, intelligent dialogue on the role and relevance of fmterni.ties to the College. With one notable exception, the ... articles were sincere efforts to explore the issue and to present their positions. This exception, namely Harry Miller's article on \fallaciol:ls images\ is so exceedingly one-sided and hostile that it demands rebuttal. To begin with, Mr. Miller's article is guilty of the major weakness which he erroneously attributes to· fraternities. Wi·thout any factual supports, he m a k e s h 'O m o g e n o u s geReralizations on almost every aspect of fraternity life, including initiation procedures, living conditions, quality of food, and financial security. Similarly, he analyzes the personality type of fraternity members as group-oriented indivi·duals \dependent\ on others for their fun, security, and personality. As a brother of a chapter which prides itself on comfortable accomodations, academic and fiscal security, and above all group diversity, I challenge Mr. Miller's contentions as narrow-minded, insulting, and totally untrue. Expressions of discontent, without basis in information or experience, seem to be futile attempts to upset the apple cart without consideration of the fruits to be gained. Sincerely yours, John J. O'Kane Union and Phi Delta Theta '69 To the Editor: I huv not been in dis contry long from my native Greece, not neither at Union College. But I got say something wot make me mad, here. Hes name, it is Wilfred Ketz. He make me go to gym to be big and strong. He want make me look like marble · statue. He want me build stomack like Adonis_ He want me dewelop neck like Doric column. He want me be able to run marathon from Schenectady to hills of Troy. He is crazy! But wot is worse about Mr. Ketz, he is worried about my \end product.\ Wot difference make to him wot my end product like? Is private about my end product. But he say in yearbook he is still concerned. Dis maybe why he take off d o o r s o f d o w n s t a i r s· defecatorium in gymnasium? Ketz not goin to mess with me. He is cretin we gain to get rid of, here. All dose agree, write dis paper. Sincerely, Glutios Maximos Chairman Committee for Retaining i Anal Privacy Name withheld by request. To the Editor: The article by Har.ry MiUer in last Friday's issue of ·Facsimile was one of the· most irresponsible pieces of \joumaJism\ t:hat [ have ever read. The abundance of generalizations, misinformation, and attempted slander should have been sufficient to keep it out of aro.y honest attempt to explore such an important issue as the role of fraternities at Union. For instance, I should like to ask where Mr. Miller got his facts about \hell night?\ Is he an initiated brother of all 16 f rate rnities, or is he just guessing? His implication that dates are gmssed out only at fratemities is warped. He might be wise to take off his blinders and look around in Fox House. He might also note the deplorable condition of the Davidson House lounge after a VIC-sponsored (Sic) party. My fraternity house never looked that bad. Finally, the notion that secret orders are inherently evil disappeared with the fears and superstitions of the early nineteenth century. What is Mr. Miller afraid of? Leonard M. Kagan ~69 To the Editor: It's too bad that Art Jacobs may graduate from Union lacking an essential part of a high school education: basic English composition. In his article in last Friday's Concordy, Mr. Jacobs unfortunately sacrificed communication for garbled grandiloquence. The tragedy is that Art might have had something interesting, even important, to say. But he couched it in such overwrought verbiage that all meaning was lost in the translation. As a remedy for your logorrhea, Mr. Jacobs, we would recommend studying a copy of Elements of Style, by Strunk and White, and enrolling in Prof. William M. Murphy;s English 10 course. Although at your age Blake had finished his Poetical Sketches, Wordsworth had begun his Descriptive Sketches, and Keats was just months away from publishing Endymion, remember: it's never too late to learn how to write. Paul Andrews Larry Friedman Faculty Hoop The Union College Faculty Basketball squad will take on a conglomerate team of students coached by former injured varsity stand-out, Craig Carlson this Friday at 7:30 in the Field House. The IFC and the Black Alliance will jointly sponsor the •For three Generations.\ Those Who Know ... Have been recommending - event. The admission price is $1.50 per couple or $1.00 per person. All proceeds will be set aside in order that a Martin Luther King Memorial Scholarship Fund might be established. According to the sponsors, the fund would give pre fe renee to aiding black students. HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER u3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'• 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY To the Editm: To the Eqitor: According .to Webster's Dictionary, a \fraternity\ is \a national O(, ·local men's student 11. C' Tuesday 1 1 I' Alumni Quite frankly I question the editorial intergrity (Sic) of Facsimile (Sic) Editor, Paul Andrews. With the appearance of a few pro-fraternity articles, Mr. Andrews succeeded in giving the guise of an equal and rept:esentative opportunity for both the independent ana fraternity views in Facsimile. This situation, quite naturally, did not exist. Mr. Andrews appears to be an adam.ent independent and Mr. Andrews also .doubles as Facsimile Editor. I feel that the Concordiensis should open its mind and present both sides the opportunity to express their views fully. Allow a second issue of Facsimile on fraternity to be printed with Mr. Andrews as eaitor. Let him edit as he did before, except let him have no ruse in his issue, pretending to debate fully and fairly. Let him print an issue of Facsimile devoted to explaining how \fraternity cream is turned to mille\ Then allow the IFC the opportunity to edite its own issue. Then let the Union man fonn his own opinion without the benefit of fair editorial practices by as ope11 minded an editor as Mr. Andrews. organization forrned .chiefly fm w: \ p.m. Student Eric S. Cherson Class of '70 Due to Winter Weekend, and the National Editor's ConfereJJ.ce, Concordiensis will not publish this Friday. The next regular issue will appear next Tuesday. social purposes, having secret rites and ·a name consisting of usually three Greek letters\. If today's fraternities are. merely 8 social entities, then they are doing the job they were formed to do. The Kappa Alpha Society consists of a grol:lp of individuals living together as a social group, within common bonds of brotherhood. Does the fact that we have a colilll1on name and interest mean that we have any more responsibility to the college community than does the second floor of Fox Dormitory.' I think not. No one .~ thinks twice if one of the dormitory living uits (with representatives and social rules of its own choosing) has a low * cumulative index. But, as soon as this unit has a common name and its members have more than \ just passing acquaintances with each other, then the unit is criticized. I feel that Mr. Weingold, whose article .appeared in Concordi-;nsis on February 7, 1969, is misinformed, and 11 . because of such has been inequitable in his judgement and evalHation. Thank You, IJ; Michael H. Solomon, '70 Kappa Alpha Students interested in It-· working on ARTS FESTIVAL early in May: meeting in S.S- 112 on Thursday at 4:30. For any questions, call Dan Mead at 377-0703. 1969 ENGINEERING GRADUATES TRANSPORTATION p.m .. Wednesday Science Studen1 p.m. Convo Uncons· Speake1 Rcbelli< College Thursday 1: p.m.(7 . Movie: campus Auditio produc1 Friday 14 F Studen1 FolkS (old car TheTa! Movie: Janice Buildin. Saturday 1: p.m. Folk S Lounge 3:30 t< dress. Concer; Enseml Movie: p.m. Sunday 16 p.m., 7 OJ Scl RICHAR \Univ ENGINEERING IS THE KEY TO THE , . ;. FUTURE YOURS AND NEW JERSEY'S New Jersey needs your help to modernize their State Highway system, commuter railroad and motor bus operation. Opportunities exist for young engineers who desire early responsible work in Research-Planning- Design-Construction-Survey- Material Testing-Site Inspections, among others. WE WILL BE ON CAMPUS Wednesday, December 19th. IF DATE IS INCONVENIENT WRITE TO NEW dERSEY DEPARTME OF TRANSPORTATION Division of Personnel 1035 Parkway Ave., Trenton,N.J.08625 Att: A. L. Damico AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER London, Fe Math Cl~ 1Fox Hous€ next Poli Ra thskellar' Hugh Allen If you situations, its like r students at of Econott \closed m since Janu 300 studer gates en stairways ii buildings. As this school has two week indication long it rna) critical ex~ in April, gr the specia program a and many • want to g4 (well, at 1 Some Am for the , going back States, bt semester s· late. · •l Pinl Some i · younger ll ~_.o booked dormitorie Some are apartment~ PI c d SM 262 MAYFAIR • q . At the Sig TUES. thru fl \.'j THURS. ;; e---

1969 e bster's is .. a student fEBRUARY 11. 1969 Cale.nda.r 11 C' Tuesday 11 President's For.um: Charles· MaGill, Director of I' Alumni Relations and Placement will speak. Old Chapel, 7 p.m. . efly for w: · \ secret of Student Faculty .Br:idge: Hale Howse Faculty Lounge 7:45 p.m .. If 8 merely are formed Society group, of that and Wednesday 12 Center I Student Faculty Open House: Social Science Building Facttlty Lounge, 3:30-5 p.m. Student Wives Meeting: Hale House Student Lounge, 7:30 p.m. Convocation: Rollow May, \Creativity and the UncoNscious\ Memorial Chapel, 8 p.m. Speakel', Daniel Watts: Edit<>r of Lib~rator, \Race Riots, RebellioN, Rev0lt or Insurrection\ College Hall Skidmore College, (old campus) 8 p.m. any u to the Thursday 13 Film Haps: Dial M fol' Murder; S.~. 016, 7 and 9 p.m. (7 5 cents admission) Movie: Blood on the Balcony, Language Center, (old campws), Skidmore College 7:30p.m. does Fox No one .t of the (with rules Auditions: For '\Over and Over,\ experimental mixed media production, Skidmore College, 7:30p.m., (old campus) Friday 14 Film Series: \Monika\, S.S. 016, 8 p.m. a low * Student Faculty Basketball Game: Field House, 7:30p.m. Folk Singer Titn Buckley: Skidmore College, College Hall (old campHs) 8 p.m. (admission 2.75) as soon name than \ with The Take Three Jazz Group: Rathskeller . Movie: Lord Jim: Russell Sage Auditorium, 7:30p.m. unit is '· in 7, Janice Joplan Concert: Albany State, Physical Education Building, 9 p.m. Saturday 15 Swimming Union CoiJege vs. Kings at Union 2:30 p.m. d, and 11 · s been Folk Singer John Lipmann and the Codpiece: Fox House Lounge, Refreshments from 1:30 to 3:30 cocktails from 3:30 to 5:30. Tickets $3.00 per couple or stag. Informal dress. and nk You, IJ; '70 Concert: Eric Anderson and the New York Rock and Roll Ensemble, Old Chapel, 8:30p.m. Alpha in ~to· Movie: Blowup Albany State Eastman Tower, 7, 9 and 11 p.m. in S.S. For Mead at Sunday 16 Film Haps: To Kill a Mockingbird S.S. 016, 7 and 9 p.m., 75 cents admission. or mer Editor Front LSE: School \Closed Up Tight'' RICHARD G. PATTERSON the University of London make-shift classes. If you were , . ' \University In Exile\ Students Union building, a short smart, you took a pile of books London,Fcb.S Math Class in the basement of 'J 1 Fox House? How about your next Poli Sci lecture in the Ra thskellar? Or Music I 0 at Hugh Allen Wilson's cottage. If you can imagine these situations, you can guess what its like now for staff and fl students at the London School of Econo'filics which has been \closed until further notice\ ' since January 24 when about 11) 300 students tore down 9 iron gates erected on various stairways in the three main class buildings. .., As this is being written, the school has been closed nearly two weeks and there is no indication if, when, or for how long it may re~open. Meanwhile, critical exams for seniors begin in April, graduate students doing the special one year masters program are feeling the pin..:h, and many staff and students just want to go on holding normal (well, at least regular) classes. Some American students here for the year had considered going back to their school in the States, but for those on a semester system its almost too late. •l Ping-Pong Lecture Some professors, especially younger staff, have hastily tJ '-'booked rooms in College dormitories for their classes. Some are using their own apartments: others use rooms in c d The PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP 262 SaratogCI Road MAYFAIR SHOPPING CENTER • q · At the Sign of tho Red Neon Pipa TUES. thru SAT. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. also fl \.'j THURS. and FRI.: 7 Jo 9 PM 'SCOTIA, N. Y. Phone 399-1630 ;j C'---------- walk from LSE. I attended one out of the main library (now lecture on Social Theory also closed)just befoe the school recently, in the ping- pong room was closed (there was sufficient of the LSE girls dormitory. It's warning of the impending entirely speculative where the student action which triggered next one will be. A few the administration's conditioned professors have been able to response), and now many schedule classes at nearby students spend most of their colleges in the city, and already daily study time reading for a number of LSE students have their courses. Others are doing arranged to attend lectures at papers. Some, no doubt, are other city colleges for as long as enjoying an unscheduled LSE is closed. indefinite vacation. Communications presents a Editor's Note - Patterson is major proble. With the school spending his junior year at the closed, there is no longer a London School of Economics. \Communications Center\ and Due to student distmbances one may have to search bulletin reaular classroom operations boards in a number of ha~e been suspended since the dormitories and the students middle of January. Union building, or hope a notice is taped on the large glass doors to the main class building through which you can see a large sign which reads: \The school is closed today_, Unscheduled Vacation DARI TREET RESTAURANT YOUR CHOICE CHAR-BROIL STEAK VEAL CUTLET CHICKEN I •• $ 1.65 Only about I /3 of the teaching staff has made alternative teaching arrangements, however. Probably about the same percentage of students would be w i I I in g to attend these 2049 Van Vranken Ave. FR 7-4261 SWAN CLEANERS & SENECA LAUNDRY PICK UP AND DELIVERY SERVICE For Dry Cleaning Shirts & Sack Laundry See your Campus Representatives in every dorm and fraternity SUNDAY NIGHT Quality Service and Quick Delivery PAGE 3 - GROW WITH THE SPACE AGE 'AT · . . . GODDARD SPACE FLIGHT CENTER GREENBELT, MD. ENG IN.EERS·SCIENTISTS-MATH EM ATICIANS LINK YOUR COUNTRY'S FUTURE WITH YOUR OWN A GODDARD SPACE FLIGHT CENTER REPRESENTATIVE WILL VISIT YOUR CAMPUS TO DISCUSS YOUR CAREER OPPORTUNITIES WITH THIS GROWING NASA CE·NTER ON: FEBRUARY 26

PAGE 4 Hoopsters Outclass Stevens BY JAY BLITZMAN Bill Neidel collected 24 to lead all scorers, but was not effective The Garnet hoopsters outside. Mumford was held in returned to the .500 mark, by check, and Boehmke again virtue of a 68-38 win over picked up four fouls in the first hapless Stevens in the half. Fieldhouse Saturday. The halftime score was 29-14, The hone squad's superiority and the low tally was !lot the over SteveHs was apparent from result of a Stevens slowdown. the outset; the Garnet were The Garnet ·were guilty of taller, better ball handlers and playing the ball, and were more accurate shooters. Stevens perh(lps overzealous of running ope.ned up defensively with a up a big count. Both clubs zone press, which combined opened up the second half with with the Garnet's cold shooting a press. Stevens gradually lost enabled the visitors to keep pace sight of Union and the lead grew at 5-5 at the 15 : 49 mark of the to· 61-35 on two Dave Shames first half. fFee throws with 2:10 left. Bill B · oehmkc and Jim Bench Shines Getman netted successive field The contest provided an goals to open up the gap to four. opportunity for Coach Schmidt Dutchmen Barry Katzman and .. to rest his regulars , and the Warren Mumford applied bench saw its most extensive pressure in backcourt to action of the season. Chuck capitalize on Steven:s poor ball Spaulding hit for two long field controL Boehmke poured in all of his game total of II in the first eight and a half minutes of the half to make the margin 17-9. Sloppy Play The Garnet were victimized repeatedly by their own sloppy play, as they followed the pattern set by their opponeNts . Frosh Cagers Roll By Siena n1e freshmen cagers notched their second straight victory Saturday night, as they staged a spectacular come-from-behind effort to down Siena, 74-67. The victory upped the yearling hoopsters' record to 7-5 . Siena was in complete control of the contest during the first . half, taking a 43-27lead into the dressing room at the intermission. However, the Dutchmen opened up the third quarter with a full court press, knotted the score at 61-61 with 3:15Jeft in the game, and flew on by the dazed Siena five to roll up a 74-67 margin at the final butzer. goals, and Pete Palen picked up the first three points of his varsity career. A bright spot for the'barnet was the play of sdtihomore forward Barry Fi · tzgerald, who assumed some of the scoring burden with 15 points. Fitzgerald displayed his variety of moves and aggressiveness around the basket to draw Stevens fouls. Dave Shames , scoring eight, was the game's most effective passer. Pacing Stevens' attack was John Connelly with ten all coming in the second half,' and George Weekes, Stevens' \playmaker\. The Garnet have completed their transformation from an image of ineptitude to on_e of a winner, but that image IS mcongruous with their sloppy performance on Saturday. Rich Me Leod led all Union scorers with 19 points, while Dick Davis threw in 14, Howie DeLuca added 13, and Rich Goldberg scored 12. Jim Tedisco, in playing a great floor game, tallied II points for the Dutchmen. Andy Murphy poured in 27 points to lead all Siena scorers. Frosh guard Jim Tedisco leaps high for a rebound in the Gamet's 74-67 come-from-behind win over the Siena yearlings Friday. Photo by George Kaplan. '72 Matmen Win, Swim Falls The frosh swim team lost its first meet of the season Saturday, when the yearling mermen dropped a heartbreaker to Rochester, 50-42 in the Kodak City. The Garnet started off fast, with the relay of Gary Needell, Vince Sinatra, Rich Gross, and Tom Klinkow winning the 200-yard medley in a record time of I :49.2. Tom Hough and Dick Steinwurtzel finished second and third, respectively, in the 200-yard freestyle, to stake Union to an early 11-5lead. sweeping first and second places in the I 00-yard freestyle. In the I 00-yard backstroke, the Garnet's Needell appeared to have won, but was disqualified and placed last. Thus, Rochester picked up eight big points, and moved into the lead, 3 7-30, for the first time in the meet. Sinatra kept the Garnet yearlings close as he won the I 00-yard breastroke, breaking his own Union record with the time of 1:08 flat. The freshman wrestling team, copying the varsity, won big over the Rochester frosh, 30-5 Saturday afternoon. The victory, the team forfeited the 145 lb. slot, Bart Bonazinga came back strong to pin his 152 lb. opponent at 7: 18. Larry Bloom followed by taking a decision at 160. Bill Simon, wrestling for the first time in weeks due to an injury, also won by a decision in the . ]6 71b. class. In the final two contests of the afternoon, Garry Morris won by decision at 177 and Les Cohen picked up a forfeit in the heavyweight division. Sports n ~ · t• FEBRUARY 11, 1969 1 · qp ; \ ' \. Healthy · Grapplers : P : um : mel . 'J : ackets;~ l · Seek Sixth Against Dartmouth Today·· :: • BY STU MOSS Breaking a two-match losing streak, Union's varsity matmen won decisively, 32-3, over Rochester Sa-turday afternoon. The squad benefited from three Rochester forfeits and big wins from Naysim Simon and Frank D'Antuono. The victory gave the Garnet a season record of 5-2 with three matches rema-ining. Bill Munno started off the big win by taking a decision in the 123 lb. class. Frank D'An tuono, looking much sharper than he had in previous contests, pinned his 130 lb. opponent at 2:40. In the team's only loss of the afternoon, Larry Stevens lost a close decision at 137. Moving down a weight class to 145, Jeff Knetzer followed by winning a decision. ln between two fmfeits at 152 and 167 picked up by Bart Gale and Brian Crandall respectively, Steve French gained a decision in the 160 lb. i class. Naysi1n Simon moved up D u t chme~ go after vict?r; ~· ~ . t:4 •t o 1 77 in order to face number siX when they .face ! : Rochester's Lee Mitchell, and Dartmouth in what shoulcl be an ' won by a decision . In the easy win this afternoon in a~ . \• heavyweigh.t division, Pete away match. Kenyon .closed the match by Dartmouth is in the midst of I winning by forfeit. a building program ii:l wrestling. j Coach Ron Coleman felt his and the match today will mariti t• grapplers looked extremely the second year of competition ; · sharp with everybody working with the Garnet. In last season·~ f j · for the pin. He was especially ma.tch, the Dutchmen won ll lC p . leased with D' Antuono's easily, 30-13. This year's contest : ( .performance. 1!:1 addition, no may be more of the same, as a ! injuries hurt the team's showing number of the host's matmen · as. they did for the Colgate and have been illjured, and as man_ytl ·• Kmgs Point losses. The asfiveforfeitsmayoccur. 1 . Merm : en : Break Marks But .J l. Lose T ~ o Rochester · 1 63-41 ! BY BRUCE GARBER Despite phenominal individual efforts . and general team improvements, the lack of Garnet depth was the story at Rochester on :Saturday, as the Yellowjackets splashed to an unexpected 63-41 victory OV<1'i . ~ the varsity mermen. The medley relay Hockey Club Wins first; Pounds Continenta . ls 8-1 combination of Burt Yankiver, John Horwath, Steve Werlin, anlt t 4 Kevin Hoben, lowered the Unio11 standard by over two seconds, to 3:57.5, . yet were still far behin~ 1 • Rochester, which finished in a blistering 3 : 54. The Yellowjackets yielded only three firsts on their way 1li (I victory, and in each case it · • required the Garnet mermen's best clocking of the season. Burt Yankiver, in an unbelievabl~ ' 4 finish, took the 200 yard freestyle, in I :56.0 seconds, making up nearly ten feet on -th~~ ... final lap, to win by a touch Co-captain Steve Wedin extended his streak to 21 consecutive wins in the 200 yarfi ' ' butterfly, with a time of 2: 1 0. 7 seconds. This was his all-time best in dual competition ; · Sophomores Mike Gow anJ 1 Larry Ray combined for the only Union sweep of the meet, with both men chipping a fe''i ,, seconds off their best times. BY BILL HOLLERAN The Hockey Club started its season off on the right foot Saturday, as the skaters crushed Hamilton's junior varsity, 8-1, on Continental ice. It was a surprising show of strength for the Garnet, both offensively and de fcnsively. Although the Continentals pressured the Union sextet during the early minutes of the contest, it was the Garnet who opened the scoring at the 5:27 mark of the first period. Chris O'Neil took a beautiful pass from Jim Glidden at center ice, burst into the Hamilton zone, and after triggering a hard drive on net, stole the rebound and rammed the puck into the cage for the Garnet tally. After the opening goal, the Garnet were never headed, moving into the driver's seat at 11 :56 of the period when Glidden whacked home the rebound of another O'Neil shot. Open Up In Second The Union skaters came out flying at the start of the second period, with Hunter Townsend and hot-tempered John Storm scoring on close-in drives before two minutes had elapsed. Hamilton scored its only goal of the game at the 6: 13 mark, on a tip-in that trickled through goalie Dick Brickley's legs, and mounted the pressure on Union once again, only to be denied time and again by some fine saves by Brickley. The Garnet came right back, however, making it a 5-l hockey game at 8:54, when Glidden notched his second goal of the game, gunning the puck into the Hamilton nets from twenty feet out. The third period featured loose, fast-moving . . hockey, as both sides hit hard and were heavily penalized. Four third period penalties, however, were not enough to stop the fired up Garnet from turning the game into a Fout, as O'Neil netted a beautiful unassisted goal at the 8 : 00 mark, Townsend popped in his second marker, tipping in Don Duncan's hard slapper at 12:23, and Glidden added his third score of the day with only four minutes remaining. The smooth-skating, hard-hitting, right winger completed the \hat trick\ when lle batted another O'Neil rebound into the goal, over the sprawling Hamilton goalie. In the final minutes of the game, the Garnet tightened up and played tough, defensive hockey, to thwart any Hamilton bids for a comeback and insure the first Union ice victory in quite some time. Futme Bright Both offensively and defensively, Saturday's game abounded with plusses for the Garnet. On offense, the skaters left the Hamilton goalies shell-shocked. N eidel In ECA C 'l ... The Garnet's 6'4\ forwatd Bill Neidel was named to the KC.A.C. All-East Division HI ~~ \' basketball squad last week., for his 28 point and 13 rebound performance against o 1 Middlebury. The Dutchman star has likewise been nominated for his play against Trinity and Stevens •J Tech this week. ~------------------~ ~-----------------------~ THE PEANUT STORE Featurin-g PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEA.NUTS and Nutmeats from all over the world. 406 . ST~TE ST. JAY BILLIARD LOUNGE 167 JAY ST. SPECIAL RA Ti& FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS Bring Your Dates Free Parking In Rear W CIVIL ENGINEERING - SENIORS! YOUR FUTURE CAN BE IN TRANSPORTATION! After Rochester took the 500 - yard freestyle to close the gap, Sinatra was clocked at 2:26.7 in the 200-yard individual medley, good enough to garner first place for Union and up the Garnet's lead to 21-13. Rochester copped first honors in the diving competition. After Gross, competing in his first meet this year, clinched first place in the I 00-yard butterfly for the Garnet yearlings with his time of 0:59.5, the Yellowjackcts pulled to within one, 30-29, by the squad's second straight, gave them a 4-2 record for the season. In other recent matches the matm.-:n had lost to Colgate 32-5 and be a ten Kings Point 23-18. In their next contest the frosh will go against Dartmouth's freshman Tuesday afternoon in an away DEWITT'S Our expanding transportation engineering program includes an annual ~ billi.on dollars in highway construction. match. After Sun Bin Lee had won by forfeit at 123, Len Solomon and Harvey Bilik picked up decisions in the 130 and 13 7 classes respectively. Although Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages 118 • 120 JAY STRffT No . Exam· Tuition refunds for Graduate Study. See our rec~uiter on FEBRUARY 17 Visit your Placement Office Now for brochures and SIGN UP to hear -. the tufl story, or write to: Director of Manpower . NEW ' YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION State Campus Building 5, Albany, New York 12226



~ ~ l) ' . 10 • •' ! ' , I - ~ o r ) ' ~ 1- ol ' - ~· r ~ • · I I I I f' I I I I · I I I I I ( r ! r ' j f ! i il ~ ! I f r



APERTURUS MAXIMUS: Clarabe II W. Grave stone (Prof. Gravestone is an erstwhile psychologist, giving a course in his very own personal theory ofwhypeople behave the ways they do. He is also a circus barker.) Garnette: Prof. Gravestone, wherever one goes on the Union campus -- from the bounding brook to the Nipple-- one hears students discussing your human personality course. Would you care to conjecture why? Prof. Gravestone: Why, it's obvious to someone with the insight factor, such as myself. The students at Union are going through a level two regression -- they feel the need to talk to other students, and to attempt to dominate them. They are searching for a better life. Also, they recognize a damn' brilliant .theory like my own. Garnette: Uh the students we've heard discussing it didn't seem to be exactly overwhelmed ••• Prof. Gravestone: What! Well, what do you expect? They're performing perfectly normally for their personality levels. Once they reach the thirtieth level--like myself-- they'll see I'm right. Garnette: We've heard some criticism leveled to the effect that your theory is too general, attempting to be so all-inclusive as to be meaningless. Prof. Gravestone: The~e criticisms are no doubt made by level four people, who are behaving perfectly normally for that level. Garnette: You test your students very interestingly. Could you please describe your testing technique to us? Prof, Gravestone: A hell of a pleasure to. What I do is to find out which students realize that they do not know the answers to questiohs. I not only subtract wrong answers from right answers, I throw in a few questions for which there are no answers at all-- just for kicks, it's perfectly normal behavior for my personality level. One of my students the other day got the highest mark of anyone I've ever taught -- he turned in a completely unanswered test. The boY was bright enough to know he didn't know any of the answers. That's the mark of a good student. Garnette: But, professor, if everybody did that, how would students learn anything? Prof. Gravestone: Bull, man! Oh, I'm sorry for losing my temper. When you reach my personality level, you'll understand. Garnette: You have some interesting comments on famous people in history. How do you feel about Adolph Hitler? Prof. Gravestone: He W'.:l.s searching for a better life for his people. He elevated German society. He was behaving perfectly normally for his personality level. Garnette: Fidel Castro? Prof. Gravestone: He is behaving perfectly normally for his per- sonality level. Garnette: President Nixon? Prof. Gravestone: You must remember that this country is going through a regression as it passes from one level to another. Nixon is behaving perfectly normally for his personality level. G:irnette would lil<e to thank Prof. Gravestone for his cooperation in this oral intercourse. We offer no apologies for anything contained herein. We are behaving perfectly normally for our personality level. , . ., ,, \ ,,



Education is necessary for the proper functioning of our democracy. Education is the life blood of this great nation of ours. Education is good for you. Here at Union, a small all mens liberal arts and engineering college deep in the Mohawk Vale, education is our business, in fact, our most important product. In line with the present American trend of checks and balances, patri- otic Union is in the forefront of balanced institutions. The number of faculty leaving is balanced by the number staying; the number of engi- neers who don't know \L. A.'s\ exist by the number LQA.'s ridiculing the engineers; the nun1ber of athletes playing sports by the number of athletes capable but not playing divided by 102; the number of Negroes by the number of Martians: the number of books added to the library by the number leaving the library; Water c. Maker's portrait hanging in Hale House by Dixon Ryan Fix's (which used to hang there); . the power of the trustees by that of the faculty, students, administration, parents, alumni> and state; and the number of proposed left wing satel- lite buildings by the number of proposed right wing satelite buildings\ The colleges of the United States serve three million students, of which Union is responsible for 1000\ This is a record long envied by other schools in the nation, and one of the reasons Union is the most ranked college in the East. ACADEMIC The progressive atmosphere of Union is marked by the amazing pro- gress we are making in revolutionizing our academic programs. We can truly say that Union is the only top ranked liberal arts and engineering college in America which has been able to operate without either a math or sociology department. LIBRARY. Another unique feature of Union is Schafer Library, although,not owned by the college, it is situated smack in the middle of the campus. As of the last audit, the music room is owned by May Maker and its sup- porting pillar by two annonym6us friends; the main wall is _ owned by Schafer (as is the freize), u.s. Steel, Alco, Bethlehem Steel, and Wester_n Electric; walls by Chi Pi (holds up seco.nd floor), Collen (third fl?or)~~ and the class of 1908; the elevator by Ohs; doors by Muncher, Winne, ~ Lester, Gentlemen, the Schenectady Savings Bank, and Ladies; the desks b 1 r ( .



APERTURUS: PROF. ARNIE WATTS Prof. Watts is a professor of electrical engineering. He is also an ostensible liberal, being the inventor of the black light, Garnette: Prof. Watts, have you noticed a change over the past few years in the students you've been teaching here at Union? Prof. Watts: No, not at all. Why do you ask? Garnette: Well, we were going to use that as a lead-in to our next question, which is to ask your opinion about the \quiet revolution\ taking place on campus. Prof. Watts: A quiet what? Garnette: Revolution. You know, something like what happened at Columbia and ••• Prof. Watts: At where? Garnette: Columbia University. Uh, it's in New York City. Which is in New York State. Which is part of America. Prof. Watts: Which is part of the world. The world is just like a big electron, you know -- hurtling through space, bouncing of.f of ••• Garnette: Cough. Urn, yes, but to get back to the interview-- we wonder if you agree with Richard Daley when he said • ., Prof. Watts: Who? Garnette: Uh ••• Thomas Wolfe? Prof. Watts: Who? Garnette: Marshall McLuhen? Prof. Watts: Who? Garnette: Goldie Hawn? Prof. Watts: Who? Garnette: Jesus Christ! Prof. Watts: Who? Garnette: Richard Nixon? Prof. Watts: Ahh. Compatriot of the great Dwight Eisenhower, Garnette: Choke, gag. New Super Artsy E. E. Prof. Arnold V. Watts i· ... ,··~·.<.\f.:.· .,. I. 1.· •• a.> > ...... ro ·- u a.> !... 0.. 0.. ro 0 ....... a.> u ~· ·- > :1.-. Q) Vl ., ::::J - 0.. Vl 0 a.>u \'C ·- ....... > Vl 0 <J.) ~$ Vl- \C 0 0 0 Vl ' I i p· u... c ., ro o 01!...- ro-+-' (/) g_ ~· • • = ..... DQ = = __. en .. ......, -





Founded at Union College 1877 VOL. 98, NO. 29 · SCHENECTADY, ' N.Y., , fEBRUARY 18, 1969 \A Causa Persa Parole A$sai\ PRI - CE TWENTY CENTS DrugCommitteeReleasesReport; College To Handle Drug Abuses ERIC ANDERSON: Saturday's marathon four hour concert hig . .lig .. ted Winter . Weekend,. The New York Rock and Roll Ensemble and Eric Anderson gave what r• was considered by many to be one of 1be finest concerts ever held at Union. Review · on page 2. , .~Rep. Rosenthal OlHER HONORS A spec-ial student-faculty committee on arugs released the results - of its findings and proposed a policy for the college to follow. The proposal will be voted upon by the All-College Council, possibly as soon as next week. Tn additioN to emphasizing that all state and federal laws on drugs and narcotics are in force on college grounds, the proposed policy expresses the - desire that Union \create an environrnen t which wil'l encour11J.e students, both as individuals and as groups, to discuss drug problems openly and without fear of reprisal.\ The cmnmittee was established last spring by President Martin to recommend education programs--curricular and non-curricular--, to suggest lines of policy and to recommend courses of action. Chairman of the committee is Dr. Charles S. Olton, assistant professor of history and director of comprehensive education. Formulates Policy Prof. Olton's group was not empowered to investigate drug abuse, but rather to formulate a policy for the college to follow. The proposed policy statemeHt notes the \col:tege cannot shield tlwse who disobey the law on campus. Therefore, the college will take a serious attitude toward drugs in order to protect its essentially academic and educational missions.\ \If an indication of illegal drug use comes to the attention of fraternity officers or dormitory resident advisers, they are obliged to report it to the dean of students.\ The statement notes cases of drug abuse wil'l be treated as disciplinary matters. Will Police Intervene? \More serious offenses, such as those involving people outside the college community or those involving the sale or transfer of illegal substances, make it almost impossible to deal with the question of drugs as an intra-college concern, for they invite intervention of police authorities.\ Discussion between students and the dean, college physician, or counseling staff \will be held in the strictest confidence, and disciplinary measures will not be taken against individuals or groups who are willing to discuss their problems frankly and To Brief IRC ll On Diplomacy Three Students Receive Wilsons J ; Rep. Benjamin S. Rosenthal, a Democrat from the Bronx will speal< at 7:30 p.m. Thursday in tile I auditorium of the Social Sciences building. His visit to the campus is bei~g l sponsored by the International -·~ Relations Club. I Rep. Rosenthal is the principal i sponsor of bills in Congress to create a federal Department of Consumer ' Affairs. He has also sponsored bills I requiring federal assistance to local and state consumer agencies; creating , regional aviation authorities, improving air safety and reducing aircraft noise; improving the health safety delivery system by reducing < infant mortality and aiding maternal and child health programs. Rep. Rosenthal is a native of NeVI , York City. He attended Long Islaad Univers.ity and the City College of New York, and received a bachelor of laws degree from Brooklyn LaVI School in 1949. Three years later h.e took a master of lavvs degree from New York University. · Rep. Rosenthal He was elected to the 87th Congress in a special election in 1962 and is now serving his· fifth term of office. A member of the Foreign AffaiJs Committee, the Government Operations Committee and the Special Inquiry on the 'Invasion of Privacy, Rosenthal serves as chairma.n of the .Special Inquiry on Consumer Representation in the Federal Government. The Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation and Tau Beta Pi, the national engineering honorary society, have Tecently cited a number of Union Students for their superior academic work. . Three seniors are among the more than 1,100 young men and women who have been designated by the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation as among the best future college teachers on the continent. The 1,106 students, representing 349 colleges in the United States and Canada, were the finalists in a competition for which 11,704 candidates were nominated last October. Receiving honorable mention were Nicholas Cava, Neal J. Gordon and Michael D. Levin-Epstein. Three other Union men received honorable mention classification. Named as designates from Union were Robert M. Heine, Charles J. Hogan and Laurance J. Suter. Eleven students, eight seniors and three juniors, recently were initiated into Tau Beta Pi, the national engineering honorary society. William . Neidel, a Union senior and president of the society, presided at the initiation. Ketz Defends Report At Meeting; Coundl To Review Program In an informal meeting with Union student's last night, . the Chairman of the Physical Education Department, Wilford H. K.et:z, answered critics of the present maintenance program. \On re-examination of this program, it seems to me that this program is wrong,\ Ketz stated. \We have . aimed the maintenance requirement toward improving the general moter ability of Union Students. We have not been entirely successful in this.\ Dr. Ketz admitted that some physically fit people may not be able to pass the required physical fitness tests. He agreed forcing these students to take body building classes 5 out of 9 terms is unfair. The Ketz Report, due for consideration by the Faculty Council today, recommends that . physical fitness tests be given only to freshmen. It also suggests that only one body-building class be required. According to Ketz the primary function of the Union maintenance . requirement is to develop good physical fitness habits. Dr. Ke.tz stated \we have no guarantee that habits will be formed, just faith that the student who completes the program will see the benefit of it and will continue after he leaves school.\ When asked about the present reql!iremen t of two attendances a week, the athletic director replied, \if you don't want maintenance as maintenance, then you have to go to a fully structured program.\ After several students insisted that the requirement be reduced rather than increased, Dr. Ketz said, \From our standpoint, you already have the kitchen sink.\ Those initiated were: Keith W. Bedford, Russell C. Bogardus, Richard A. Bradt, John F. Burton, David C. Gray, Thomas A. Grieb, Charles H. Guiles, Robert M. Heine, William A. Kern, James D. Uoyd and Michael E. Mikolaitis. Pribyl To Tell IRC Of Recent Czech Affairs Jaromir Pribyl, first secretary of the Czechoslovak embassy in Washington, D.C., will speak tonight at 7:30 p.m. at Old Chapel. His topic will be \Recent Developments in Czechoslovakia.\ The International Relations Club is sponsoring the address. Pribyl, 34, was born in Ocelice, Czechoslovakia. Following his graduation from the Charles University in Prague, he continued his education at the Institute of International Relations in Moscow, where he received his diploma in 1959. For the next three years, he served the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as attache at the Czechoslovak embassy in Washington. He returned to his homeland in 1962 to take charge of the Ministry's North American section, a position he held until 1966. In 1966 he was reassigned to Washington, where he now works in the political section of the embassy. Pribyl's appearance at Union is part of the International Relations Club'sConflict Series. Future plans include speakers from both ' sides of the apartheid question in the Union of South Africa. take effective action to amend illegal behavior.\ Union will not initiate random investigatory work, the statement said, nor will it sanction or encourage secret detective work by off-campus agencies unless public officials have shown the college clear evidence of legal infractions which warrant close and private investigation. \Union will attempt to deal with drug problems as an internal community matter, requiring candor, honesty, confidence, trust, and sensitivity; but it willful, furtive or continuing malfeasance occurs, the college will make every effort to eradicate it,\ the statement says. \The college is obliged to protect its essential educational and intellectual purposes by removing those whose illegal activity may invite disruption of academic life. In the last analysis, it is up to the students to preserve the health and quality of their college.\ Prof. Olton noted that prior to action by the All-College Council, all elements of the college community will have an opportunity to review the proposed policy and endorse it. He said he expects the response from the board of trustees, faculty council, and student council will be made available to the All-College Council for its consideration. Union ROTC Named Area H eadq ua rters The Robert P. Paterson Squandron ofthe Arnold Air Society, the national honorary service organization of ROTC on the Union Campus, was selected as the area headquarters of the New York area at the Bi-Area Conclave in Boston last weekend. The Area A-2 command also recognized Squadron Commander Bill Brinkman as Outstanding Cadet of the Year and Union's community briefings as the Outstanding Area Project. Selected by the commander of the present area headquarters and the heads of the six area squadrons, the Union chapter will fill the position of h_eadquarters for a two year period, beginning early in April. Representing Union's Paterson Squadron during the selection was its past commander, Andy Nodine. Co-Ed Week Coming The Experiment For Co-Educational Living will hold an organizational meeting in the lounge of the Social Sciences Building Wednesday at 7 p.m. If student response at this meeting is sparse, Co-Ed Week, which has already been approved by the College administration for the first week of the next term, will have to be cancelled. Letters have already been sent to Wells, Smith, Goucher, and Skidmore Colleges among others. Informal responses have been encouraging but, according to the administration, Co-Ed Week will become a reality only · if this meeting is well attended. . : \· · ' . .' . l :;

PA:GE 2 P.ubhsned Tuesday and Fnday dur- ing the school year by the Stuclent Body of Unton C ol'l ege. Sc he nee t ~d1 N.Y. Nat1onal A·dverti&Lng ·Repre ... . s·ent atlve: N atlona I E due at 1onal Ad.vert1s1ng Servtce. Inc .. College Publlsher~ Representat·r-. e. JbO Leungton Av~nur N. Y. C, Edttonal Offtce. Old Gym, Unton. College. Pubhcatton Offtce Wh!!e· hurst Pnnttng & E:1nd1ng (o .. Inc. 416-418 Ftfth Ave .. Troy. 235-4450. Enter(>d 10 ·the> St:henectady Pos.·t ·Of flee as Se-cond Class .Ma·ll Matter. Subscnptson 20¢ a copy; $6 a ',ear de-hvered anywhere 1n the Unl·tt~d States. SENIOR BOARD D. l'etL'r I>rotn1an .......... . Kt<..h:.IIJ Lewt~ ..... . Wt!kun Ou;er ... .. . .. .. .......... Ed nor-in-Ch Jt:f Busim'~\ \hm!,!erl ...... ~lanaC!Illg LJttllr Mens Sana In Colle_qio Sano! We fed that the Rqwrt to Faculty and Students on Physical Education at Union, a personal report prepared by Professor and Chairman of the Department of Physical Education and Athletics, Wilford H. Ketz, is, in a word, ludicrous. Bes~des a bland comparative study of physical educatwn at other colleges, the report outlines the basic purpose of the maintenance program as a \contribution to health,\ which presumably means that the goal of the program is to maintain the Union students' bodies in reasonably good physical condition. Ostensibly, in order both to implement this purpose and to improve the present program, Mr. Ketz has incorporated several recommendations into his report. These include: retention of physical fitness testing on a limited basis, retention of swimming - survival testing, reduction of the number of maintenances required fur graduation and elimination of the present pass-fail grading system in favor of no grades at all (completion of the graduation requirement would be based purely on cumulative attendances). We perceive the dilution of the maintenance requirement as a stop-gap measure on the part of Mr. Ketz. In no way does the reduction from 162 required attendances to 120 improve the health of the Union student. The reduction here merely serves to mollify oppone~ts of the system and thereby attempts to salvage the entire system. We cannot see the purpose in salvaging this system wherein some students may play stand-out intra-mural sports. maintain excellent physiques and fail to _complete the requirement, while many others sign for mat?tenances and go to sleep in the wrestling room or behmd the handball court. In practice, then, the mainten~nc~ system is by no means a picture of efficiency. In prmc1ple, on the other hand, the system entirely collapses. At a college where students are, for the most part, responsible for their own course selections con_vocation and church attendance (or lack thereof) and parietal hours, required maintenance is an anachronism. Concordiensis recommends, therefore that the . , ma.mtenance graduation requirement be eliminated. However. because we realize that physical fitness is an integral part of health, we do support two of Professor Ketz 's recommendations: (1) that '\physical fitness tests be given only to the entering class. Freshmen unable to pass a reasonable test standard, now set at an average of the 50th percentile on the national scale shall be scheduled in a program for the improveme~t of their motor ability for a maximum of one term.\ and (2) that the swimming- water survival test program be retained. In any case, Concordiensis believes that before the Faculty Council (and finally the General Faculty who have ultimate power in curricular affairs) acts on this matter, the people who are the supposed benefactors of the maintenance program, i.e. the students, had ought to be consulted. BEFORE AFTj::R FEBRUARY 18, 1969 Letters· To The Editor Anderson Hit; NY Rock Praised Union MEN? To the Editor: I have two matters for discussion. First, I congratulate Facsimile for its fine fiaternity issue. As an independent, I sometimes feel the fraternity is superfluous to campus life. In this particular instll!nce, l wish to defend the fraternities. I have heard many people say (with ac note of sour grapes} that the fraternities are nothing but drinking clubs, etc. When the fraternities offer as a defense their excellent Arts Weekend last spring, and their work with un de rp rivileged chi·ldren, scoffers say, \So what? They should have been doing those things long ag0.\ I put this question to the college community: What have the independents, as a unit, dol'le for the cultural life of Union College other than \another big blast fron1 the D.E.C.?\ What have the independents as a unit done to foster social awareness on campus? I realize that s0me individuals have been active in Upward Bound, Big Brother, and several other programs, but individuals have done the same things while being fraternity members. Until the independents work as a group, instead of a scattered few doing something, they have no cause to be so self-righteous. Second, I attended, quite by accident, a meeting to vote on the new constitution. Not many others did. I live off campus, and Blither \Death of a Salesman., will be shown tonight at 9 p.m. instead of the originally announced time, in S.S. 016. *** Resident Adviser applications are available in the Housing Office in Fox House. The deadline for completed applications is March 20. *** Dr. Ross Nigrelli, of the Osborn Laboratories for Marine Sciences, will speak on \Current Research at the Osborn Laboratories for Marine Sciences.\ *** The Union Book •69 is in need of a business manager whose main responsibility will be the organization of a sales force. Contact Mrs. Mara at the Student Activities Office for further infonnation. *** Samuel Green~::, an expert on Latin American economic development, will speak Thursday evening at 7:30 pm. in Hale House Student Lounge, on \A Policy for Economic Development in Latin America.\ *** The PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP 262 Saratoga Raad MAYFAIR SHOPPING CENTER At the Sign of the Red Neon Pipe TUES. thru SAT. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. also THURS. and FRI.: 7 .to 9 PM SCOTIA, N.Y. Phone 399-1630 THE PEANUT STORE Featurin'g PlANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeats from all over the world. 406 STATE ST. cannot head WRUC, and do not always get Concordy. But what of the 1300 men who do live on cam pus? Why weren't they there? Dean MaHoy and President Martin have been unh e.l ievably cooperative regardmg student demands in the past, the student body can show ~the same concern. Perhaps the only sensitive area of the Union man is his genitals. Joel M. Blumenthal '69 Trln Goes Co-Ed To the Editor: God willing and the Trustees concurr·ing, the following from the Trinity Tripod can make amen.ds for its inaccuracy by being prophetic: (Trinity decides for Coed) \The decision was based on the committee's own polls and co-education reports from Wesleyan, Franklin and M arshl'rll, Princeton, Colgate, Vassar, Union, Kenyan and Bowdoin, all of which will go coed in the near future.\ Saul 0. Hubris Name Withheld by Request BY LARRY FRIEDMAN Saturday night's Winter Weekend Concert, featuring folk singer Eric Anderson and The New York Rock and Roll Ensemble offered the audience musical banality followed by musical excellence. An de r s. on , w h o s·e p·erf·ormance seemed interminable, might be forgiven because he has a cold. However, h~ was . out of tune and forgot h1s lyncs too often to be regarded a good performer. Although a few of his songs had poetic merit, Anderson's poor enunciation, coupled with barely adequate guitar teclmique, detracted from whatever was worthwhile in his program. Glimpse of Talent His best number, .. Anytime, Anyplace, Anywhere,\ possibly gave us a :brief glimpse of Anderson's talent. It was ljght, t well-organized, and reminiscent of the Beatles' \When I'm Sixty-four.\ Utilizing many subtle musical '' puns and a raucous but determined style, the Ne~ York Rock and Roll Ensemble i· demonstrated first-class musical professionalism. Their concerto for two oboes and cello was played with the ' facility expected of Julliard musicians, and the rock number with cowbell and tambourine was so exciting that the audience ' responded with feFYot. Refreshing Synthesis By weaving Baroque with ti, pure rock, NYRRE achieved a novel musical synthesis which was both refreshi,ng and revealing. Touches and even full ~ phrases· of Bach were evident thro~ghout their performance, offenng the listener · a new I) perspective of the old master. AFS Work Camps Getting up at 3:30 in the morning, marching for thirty minutes, doing the Union College physical fitness tests five times over and then beginning a six.-hour work day can be one of the most rewarding experiences any young man can have, especially if it is all done abroad. This past summer Jeff Dunn, Stuart Shapiro ~nd Neal Gordon participated m the American Friends Service Committee summer projects abroad, partially financed by Union College. The goal of the six different activities each of the three participated in was to increase international understanding through co-operative work on projects ranging from assistant in a mental institution in the Netherlands to construction of a swimming ·pool in Czech?slova.J?a. Applications for th1s year s projects will be available from Prof. David Snider in Silliman HalL DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages 118- 120 JAY STREET GROW WIIH THE SPACE AGE AT I• GODDARD SPACE FLIGHT CENTER GREENBELT, MD. ENGINEERS-SCIENTISTS-MATHEMATICIANS LINK YOUR COUNTRY'S FUTURE WITH YOUR OWN A GODDARD SPACE .FLIGHT. CENTER REPRESENTATIVE WILL VISIT YOUR C.AMPUS TO DISCUSS YOUR CAREER OPPORTUNITIES WITH THIS GROWING NASA CENTER ON: FEBRUARY 26 ll .: . FEBRUARY Filr 'D . ~u .. Dutchma film about b sh9Wll tomo 1:6 at 7 and by an open 9:30. The fi Film Haps a cents. Participat Professors I Malcolm W Dyke of t students R Kobland, am \Dutchm: theaters in dHring Chri5 was shown 1: · can almost J student acti showing of Sloan. He ad m0st impm1 will ever se here.\ Film Har the World P Lind Cinem ,I \' ·,f l ·~~ i\

ljght, t I'm musical 1 ' s, but York ~. musical o oboes the ' Julliard number bourine • udience e with ti, a which and ven full ~ evident a new fl ' ' in be \ II ·~ I I .I ! ! ' .: . FEBRUARY 18, 1969 Film Haps Plans 'Dutchman'Show Concerto Competition The Northeastern New York Student Orchestra will hold its second solo concerto competition for area high school and college instrumental and vocal students on Saturday, February 22 in room 019 of the Humanities Building. The winner wHl have the opportunity of performing standard works from concerto and vocal literature, in concert with the orchestra. \Dutchman a controversial film about black power, will be shown tomorrow night in S.S. 16 at 7 and 8:15p.m. followed by an open panel discussion at 9:30. The ftlm is sponsored by Film Haps and admission is 7 5 cents. ParticipaHng in the panel are: Professors David Snider and Malcolm Willison, Leon Van Dyke of the Brothers, and students Roger Miller, Ken Kobland, and Joe De Costa. \Dutchman\ in underground theaters in New York City dHring Christmas Vacation and was shown last year at Union. \I · can almost pinpoint the rise of student activism here with the showing of \Dutchman said Sloan. He added it is \one of the most impmtant movies anyone will ever see in his four years here.\ Film Haps will also sponsor the World Premiere of the New Lind Cinema Production, \The Virgin President,\ on February 27, March l and 2. Other scheduled films are: Sun, Feb. 23 · \That Man In Istanbul\· Horst Bucholz; Wed, Mar. 5 - \High Noon\ . Gary Cooper and Grace Kelly; Sun, Mar. 9 • \Fail Safe\. Henry Fonda; Edgar Curtis, Artistic Director and founder of the orchestra, suggests that student musicians write, or phone the orchestra's office at Union, as soon as possible, to make an appointment to be auditioned sometime during the day of February 22nd. The concerto must be memorized and an accompanist will be provided although a student wiU be allowed to bring his own accompanist if he chooses. If the C(!)ncerro is long, it will be permissible to play just one movement. Liason Committee Handles Complaints \If you've got a gripe, bring it The Uaison Committee then Com mit tee will direct the t~ us, and if we can't solve it, we investigates and makes the complaintant to the appropriate will find someone who can\ appropriate recommendations. office. commented Professor Theodore Student members of the Initiated recently, the Liaison A. Bick, head of the Committee are Donald De Committee already lists several recently-formed Liaison Michele and Robert Saltzman. a·chievements, including an Committee. Faculty members include improvement in food at Hale Professor Bick was asked by President Martin to create the Liaison Corrunittee. A means of communication between Administration, faculty, and students, the ,CommJ,ttee receives complaints about college offices. professors Peter Prosper and House .. At the suggestion of the Hugh Wilson. Comrruttee, a blacktop walk was laid near the construction site because of the mud. • Anyone having a complaint may give it to any member of the Committee, remaining anonymous if he desires. If unable to act on a grievance, the ])ect sio~ lf'.S I J)ecis; . · ol?s; • Professor Bick emphasized all members of the Connnittee can be contacted at any time with a grievance. Anonymity is assured. some decisions are relalivelr unimportant. Where you out your enuinearinu talent to work is not. As you contemplate one of the most important decisions of your life, we invite you to consider a career at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft. Here, you will find wide-open opportunities for professional growth with a company that enjoys an enviable record of stability in the dynamic atmosphere of aerospace technology. We select our engineers and scientists carefully. Motivate them well. Give them the equipment and facilities only a leader can provide. Offer them company-paid, graduate-education opportunities. Encourage them to push into fields that have not been explored before. Keep them reaching for a little bit more responsibility than they can manage. Reward them well when they do manage it. And your decision is made easier, thanks to the wide range of talents required. Your degree can be a B.S., M.S., or Ph.D. in: MECHANICAL • AERONAUTICAL • ELECTRICAL • CHEMICAL • CIVIL • MARINE • INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING • PHYSICS • CHEMISTRY • METALLURGY • MATERIALS SCIENCE • CERAMICS • MATHEMATICS • STATISTICS • COMPUTER SCIENCE • ENGINEERING SCIENCE • ENGINEERING MECHANICS. Consult your college placement officer-or write Mr. William L. Stoner, Engineering Department, Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, East Hartford, Connecticut 06108. Pratt & Whitney Aircraft EAS;T HARTFORD AND MIDDLETOWN, CONNECTICUT WEST PALM BEACH, FLORIDA .. u DIVISION OF UNITED RRAFT CORPORATION An Eqoui.Opportunll)r Employer PAGE 3 ~o?cord~ensis Editor-in-Chief, D. Peter Drotman (right), and Facsnnile Editor, M. Paul Andrews III, pause in front of one of the least photographed monuments in our nation's capital before proceding to a Congressional Reception in the House of Representatives' Office Building. The two editors were amQing more than 500 college editors from across tlte country who spent the weekend in Washington at the United States Student Press Association College Editors' Conference . Brown IRC Conference Ponders French Politics By ALAN KLEIN What caused the upheavals in France in May and June of 1968? Why did they take the fonn that they did? Did they really change anything? What can we expect from France during the next few years? These were among the questions asked last weekend by participants in the Brown University Conference on France. The answeres offered by experts on the French scene from various colleges were at best unclear, at worst, meaningless. The best ideas were those that took into account the confusing nature of the subject. Explanations Prof. Henry Ehrmann of Dartmouth University began his presentation by offering two alternative explanations of the · \May-June days.\ He said it was generally conceded France was in need of change. Either he said the change was occurring too slewly or it was occurring at an uneven pace. Had one visited France before the \May-June days,\ gone off to another planet and then returned to France, he would scarcely notice any changes. He then explained the implications ofthe elections that· followed the disturbances. In the new parliement, DeGaulle is in command of a British-style absolute majority, but the JAY BILLIARD LOUNGE 167 JAY ST. SPECIAL RAT&6 FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS Bring Your Dates Free Parking In Rear Down to Louis', let us go, Let the lager freely flow. parliament now plays a secondary role in French government. Voters, he said, voted either for or against DeGaulle. The individual deputies counted for almost nothing. No Opposition Furthermore, a viable opposition failed to develop. Party structures were badly weakened, especially in leftist parties. The Communjsts were later humiliated by the necessity to denounce the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia. Mendez-France, leader of the non-Communist left came off rather \pathetic.\ Ehrmann stressed the left parties still represent 41% of the electorate. The Gaullist Party definitely moved to the right because the mandate it received was not a mandate for change and reform but a mandate to keep law and order. 6th St. Troupe On Saturday, February 22, 1969 at 8:30 in Old Chapel, the Moving Finger present New Y ark's Sixth Street Theatre. The troupe has been performing on the streets, on campuses, and in their Lower East Side s-torefront for a year and a half in an effort to reach people other than habitual theatergoers. The Theatre makes play~ about familiar social issues for an audience often unacquainted with a readical perspective. Their latest play, \Studentlife follows a student's career from matriculation to revolt. This is political theater. Its members number among the victims, the revolted. Their affinities are natural, not ideoligically set and tuned; Theater for the movement and for the uncommitted. To show social relations under death culture-images to crystallize hopes, fears, dangers, hatreds, loves ... A unique place to dine with old European Atrnosph.ere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. tiOW IN OUR 14th YEAR For reservations phone FR 4-8917

Hoop vs. Wesl,eyan Tomorrow Concordy Sports RPI Swim Here PAGE 4 FEBRUAHY 18, 1969 H t S ' ., N th r· • SwimSneaksbyMariners;·' .. oops. e.rs p 1 or . ern · r1p F RPI H 1 BY GARY PREVOST the Garnet to just one shot witlt re mammg and the Gamet Jack Sitarz, a 20-point average . a ce : • . . ere 0 mo. r row Playing two games marked by strong contrasts, the Garnet hoopsters split their northern trip, defeating Clarkson 98-79 after falling before St. Lawrence, 90-71. The split leaves the Gamet with a 9-9 mark, and a 3-1 slate in the ICAC. good rebounding. 'Ihe Garnet leading, 85-64. The reserves man w.blo scored 25 in last year's BY BRUCE GARBER finished with only 27 of 84 from performed admirably, but failed 102-79 rout in Middletown the field, and only Getman with to reach the century mark when First year coach Herb Ke:nny Hopi:ng to extend their ~urrent winning streak to. three, thl' 12 backed up Neidel's offensive they suffered three turnovers in usually starts two oth~r guards, Ga.rnet merme11 face the htghly talented R.~.L Eng1neers. !he dfort. The Larries were paced the .final 35 seconds. sophomores Joe Summa and swnmners crushed Harpur, 74-30, before sneaking by tough Kings by 24-point performances by The 98-point explosion was Gary Walford, 11either of whom Poiflt, 53-31 on Saturday. surprise starter :Tim Nealy and just two pQints off the college are outstanding offensive The thrilling win over Kings Point highlighted some swimmin~ • high-scoring Greg Lewis, who is recotd of 100, established 16 players. Starting in the front cartlers and shadowed others. And it ended one streak of I averaging 21 points per contest. years ago. The Dutchmen hit 32 court are 6-3 senior Fran domination, and hopefully wHl mark the beginning of another. The Clarkson Defeated of 69 shots, compared with a Spa do 1 a,, a very strong victory ,represented the first Garnet win over the Mariners in an~, ln a complete reversal of 28-78 effort by the Golden rebounder, and 6-4 sophomore sport since 1960. . Friday's dismal form, the Gamet Knights. The Garnet hoopsters George Fulton, who has a fine YankiverSets Record almost blew th.e 4-10 Clarkson were deadly at the foul line, outside shot. The meet was looking good for the mermen before the diving. The Dutchmen will face RPI, likewise 3-1 in the loop, for the ICAC title in the Fieldhouse Saturday night after hosting Wesleyan Wednesday. Frosh contests will precede both games. Golden Nights off the gym with making 34 of 41 to establish a although Kings Point was never more than five points behind. Th~ a fine early shooting spell. new Union record for free medley relay gained a quick seven points and Burt Yankiver had set .. :Making ten of their .first 14 throws in one game. The key for Wesleyan may a new .pool record in winning the 200 yard freestyle in 1:56.0 I shots, the Dutchmen broke from NeidelHigh Scorer very well be Sitarz,. for the seco11ds. I At St. Lawrence on Friday, the Garnet played a poor game against the 2-11 Larries, and were never really in the con test The Dutchmen were urmble to gain the feel of the \cozy\ St Lawrence gym, and hit on only two of their first 16 shots, allowing St. Lawrence to gain a quick ten-point lead that was never relinquinshed. Mumford Hurt The Larries, who penetrated the Garnet defense well all night, took a 49-3 2 lead into the locker room. Only Bill Neidel hit consistently for the Garnet in the first half, as he hit for 18 of his game-high 26. Warren Mumford suffered an ankle injury in the first seven minutes. and sat out the rest of the weekend, crucially limiting the Garnet's ability to score from the outside. Mumford's injury is. progressing, but he may not be at full strength for Wesleyan. The Garnet shot better in the: second half against the Larries, but got no closer than 13 as the Saints continued to shoot well (34-64 for the game), and holcl an early 4-3 lead to a 30-Il Neidel finished as the game's c;rdinals depend OR him Harvey Richmond and Mike Rine provided a crucial sweep in tht' i bulge after ten minutes. high scorer, ·making 29 points, ~:::~v~~ot t~heBsi~~~~~~l t~~ CdiviRg tt~ WI 8 'deB tWhe li~ead, buhit. then shomethhing strange happened. •. Oarkson rallied briefly near the with a 10 for 16 effort from the o-cap am teve er · n met s mate in t · e 200 yard butterfly. end of the half, but the Garnet field. Boemke, in scoring 26 carry the scoring load. In the Establi&hing a new pool record of 2:11.3, Pat Fontana of King 0 , held a 50-35 halftime lead. Bill points, hit on 11 of 15 and impressive win over Trinity, Point beat Werlin by nearly two seconds, and became the first Boemke and Neidel paced the pulled down 17 rebounds. Sitarz scored 38 poi:nts, hitting person to do so since Wedin's first varsity meet, three years ago. first-stanza effort with 20 an.d Wednesday's opponent, nearly 70 per cent from the Spirited by the upset, Kings Point began to rally, slowly hacking 17 points, respectively. The Wesleyan, has to be the best floor. On the other hand, he away at Union's lead. A cadet sweep of the 200 yard breastroM twenty points poured in by 4-12 the Dutchmen have ever scored on only three of 14shots brought them to within striking range, but once again the tides Boemke represented more than faced. The Cardinals, after against Amherst in making ten turned. the 6-6 junior had ever scored in beating MIT in their opener, points. For the first time since 1963 the Garnet breastrokers really cam(j;, a high school or college game. suffered through an eight-game though. With only two events left, and knowing that the last relay . He finished with 26. · losing streak, including a 73-72 would go to Kings Point, Coach Robert Benson sent Jolm Horwath The hoopsters continued .,to loss to Trinity, whom the Garnet Garnet Skaters Top and Mike Reger into the 200 yard breastroke needing six points. 1 · play solid ball in the second half, defeated by three points two Anything less would have meant a loss. At the half-way mar~' getting good offensive weeks ago. Engineer Six??!!! Horwath was in second place and Reger was last. After 150 yards it rebounding from Boemke and Wesleyan claimed a 86-85 win was the same story. Things looked hopeless at 175, but at the turn Neidel. The Garnet opened a over Middlebury, a team the they made their moves. With fifteen yards to go Horwath caught his 7048 lead at the ten-minute Garnet beat 80-71, and the For the seventh straight year, man. Reger and his man were even with five yard to go, and thl' mark, but Clarkson rallied Cardinals failed equally as the Union has beaten RPI in hockey. crowd went wild. With a final all-out effort Reger lunged for the wall briefly to 79-64 when Barry Garnet against Amherst and Impossible? Well, that's not the and touched out his man to win the meet. Katzman and Jim Getman were Williams, losing twice to the whole story. With a convincing Harpur College was the catalyst that began, what is hoped to be, atJ forced to the sidelines with Lord Jeffs by less than ten 9-5 win at the Niskayuana Club long chain reaction of Union swimming wins. Last Wednesday the injuries. Both men should be pomts each, and falling to Friday night, the skaters from Garnet completely dominated Harpur in a much needed recovered for Wesleyan. Williams once by 10. Last week, Phi Epsilon Pi defeated their confidence-building win to snap a three-meet losing streak. the Cardinals avenged their loss E n g i n e e r c 0 n t e r parts, Easy Harpur Win °' The Garnet quickly pulled away again, helped by the fine floor play of Dave Shames. Coach Chris Schmid empties the bench with five minutes to Trinity with a. convincing \revenging\ a 2-2 tie February Winning all but three of the events, and bragging four sweeps in 99-83 triumph. 9. the process, Union completely vanquished Harpur. Although the The Cardinals, who have won meet was not considered important, the win was big, and helped tq., 12 consecutive games against the The Garnet win was sparked restore much lost confidence. The times were much improved, with Garnet, are led by senior guard by a hat trick by Jeff Stall. Dave Seward winning the 50 yard freestyle in 23.6 seconds, his best ' . Mickey Schwartz and time ever. Werlin was off his best mark, but still managed to set a sophomore standout Barry new Harpur pool record of 2:13.2 seconds in the 200 yard butterfly!', Powers each scored twice, and Other .first went to Yankiver in the 200 yard freestyle, Mike Norm Fivel and Ken Goldman Horwath m the 200 yard individual medley, Richmond in the dive, tallied once. Ken Gordon Seward in the 100 yard freestyle, and John Horwath in the 200 yard minded the nets, while Dan breastroke. ti Aronzon played well on defense. This Wednesday R.P.I. travels to Schenectady to battle the MatmenCru_shDartmouth,38•3 BY STU MOSS In a match marred by seve11 Dartmouth forfeits, Union's varsity wrestling team crushecl the matmen from Hanover 38-3 last Tuesday afternoon. The squad's second straight win gave them a season's record of 6-2. In the only two weight classes wrestled, Ron Ruhl took a decision at 123 and Larry Stevens lost at 145. The winners by forfeit were Bill Munno at 130, Frank D'Antuono at 137, Bart Gale at 152, Jeff Knetzer at 160, Tom Tripp, who is still not ready to compete, at 167, Naysim Simon at 177 and Pete Kenyon in the heavyweight division. The Garnet will close out the year with back to back home contests, first with Clarkson Friday at 4:00 and then agains.t St. Lawrence Saturday at 2:0(). Both matches will be in the Alumni Gym. The freshman wrestling team, BASEBALL Baseball coach Art Lawrence requests all battery condidates to meet in his office at 1:00 p.m. tomorrow, February 19. Acme Barber Shop 509 Union Street Experienced Barbers ·Nearest to Union College Students - ' unlike the varsity, met tough competition as it lost to the Dartmouth frosh 31-10. Dartmouth showed the benefits of extensive recruiting and the Garnet wrestled what Coach Ron Coleman termed as \one of the best teams I've seen.\ The loss snapped a two game winning streak for th~ Garnet and they closed out their season with a 4-3 record. The opening match saw Sun Bin Lee pinned in the 123 lb. class. Len Solomon lost a decision at 130. After the teams traded forfeits at 137 and 145 Bart Bonanzinga and Larry Bloom were both pinned at 152 and 160 respectively. Bill Simon lost a close decision on riding time in the 167lb. class. Union's only victory of the afternoon came when Garry Morris pinned his 177 lb. opponent at 4:51. Jay Keller closed the contest when he was pinned in the heavyweight division. LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian American Food 1125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady 01 b-9744 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Ber 1 For three Generations.' Jhose Who Know ••. Have been .. ecommending HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER ~'3· Union Graduates in Graubarf Family'• 166 JAY ST. FOR HO~EST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY GEN, BREW. CO .• ROCH .. N y. mermen at 3:00 in Foote pool. The Engineers, who lost to Kings Point by only two points, are expected to put up a good struggle. 4 ,, • ~· f: ... a little more exciting! , c: ( ~VOL 98, N ..IRC I Discu C', Denc Thursd:: Benjamin R should be l the role Representat said that h i·explain wh) so small in t He cont( the Cons Congress p foreign poli whatever tit · dominate f \superior in He said that if you -you get aln that the P hours soone He was € President J described , impressive ~vietNam ir He asse people, give sufficiently affairs and Affairs Co1 . opportunit) . f:, The Set · foreign appointme: treaties, bu fails to exer He th developmer ,.he sees it. v He said of Tomkin ··should ha that neith~ Johnson sa' His neJ dissent carr ·supplement Nam. He s: were reluc ,because i equipment After tr ••in money for the Am The p Com Pr The Cor has made Professo rnaintenanc \The r· plan,\ said the Comr students' v this matter The stu< I. The f primarily enhance tr College activities. II. At education graduation, healthy stu We questic that healtr for graduat Ill. At absolutely aside fron program, a Certain lar for certain are require the physic:: demand t ;:ourses for IV. T ~ymnasium i nte res ted

1969 '\A Causa Persa Parole Assai\ ' ., . ,: Founded at Union Colleg·e 1817 , ~vaL 98, NO. 30 thl) The Kings : : .. treak of 1 1 The · rs in an~ diving, Th~ had set 1:56.0 i · I in tht' i . '. butterfly. of K.ing 0 , the first ago. y hacking the tides cam(j;, last relay Horwath 1 . ix .points. mar~' yards it the turn his · and thl' . ·· ' the wall ' to be, atJ the needed ..IRC Hears Cong•ress.man Discusses Congress and diplo·macy C' Denou,nces new S~e:nfinel Missile BY ALAN KLEIN Thursday night, Congressman Benjamin Rosenthal gave what he said should be a \one-minute\ speech on the role of the House of Representatives in foreign policy. He said that he had decided instead to iexplain why the role of the House was so small in this field. He contended that the framers of the Constitution intended that ·Congress play a dominant role in foreign policy but that presidents of whatever time or views ha,~e sought to · dominate foreign policy by claiming \superior in£ormation.\ He said that the \absolute truth is that if you read the New York Times ·you get almost all of the information that the President gets only twelve hours sooner.\ He was especially critical of former President Johnson on this score. He described what he admitted were impressive presidential briefings on ~viet Nam in 1965. He asserted that the \American people, given all the facts, can make a sufficiently valid judgement in foerign affairs and he hit the House Foreign Affairs Committee for \resisting an opportunity to do anything.\ Rosenthal's speech were that the pHblic \can make judgements in foreign policy,\ and that Congress has to \'assert its Constitutional right\ to help make foreign policy. He concluded by saying that Congress should tell the President, \Don't try to hoodwink us.\ In answer to questions, Rosenthal denounced the anti-ballistic missile system and the senority system in Congress. He said that \You become a chairman at an age when most corporations would retire you.\ Concordy Staffs Due to several recent high level staff reorganizations, positions on Concordiensis News and Photography staffs are presently available. Candidates for Senior and Junior Board positions, in addition to regular staff posts (experience unnecessary), are invited to apply in person at the Editorial Offices in Bronner House, North College Thursday night at 8:00, or by phoning 377-8613 at that time. Sports Preview SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FEBRUARY 21, 1969 PRICE TWENTY CENTS Stillman resigns Vice-Presidency; Winte.r Weekend .Loss.es at $700 BY ALANMELL James Stillman vacated his post as Vice-President of the Student Council on Wednesday night as a result of \'academic and personal demands\ on him. Stillman announced his resignation to the Council at the start of Wednesday's meeting, which was delayed for more than half an hour because a quorum of councilmen was not present. Reading a prepared: statement, Stillman said, \'Student Government reflects the interest shown in it by the student body--it can be effective only when a majority of students are concerned about it. The future of student government rests in the hands of the student body.\ Lacked Quorum Fifteen councilmen, four short cf a quorum, were present at 7:00, when the meeting was scheduled to start. Only after the Council secretary, Ed Rundell, telephoned missing council members was a quorum obtained. Of the nineteen members then present at the meeting, five were proKies for elected councilmen. Council President Rusty Manker announced the attendance record of councilmen would be checked at the next meeting. According to the present constitution, any council member absent from three t:neetings can be removed from his post. He indicated such action could result in the removal of a large number of delinquent members. Manker Irritated Manker, (responding to the lack of attendance) at both the Council meeting and last week's student body meeting, asked whether or not \Union wants or needs a student government?\ Though acknowledging he believed student government necessary, as a channel of communication between students and the administration and as a co-ordinator of student activities, Manker asked the Council if the students themselves were aware of the student government's importance. Daniel Z. Aronzon, former Council Secretary, observed that, among the many students absent ftom the student body meeting, were a number of council members. The meeting had been called to vote on a proposed constitution, but the vote could not be taken because a ·quorum of students was not present. Living Unit Vote Aronzon moved that another attempt be made to vote on the constitution. This time he asked that the vote be taken by living units. Manker was asked if such a vote would be legal, to which he replied that the taking of a living unit vote~would be \misconstruing the constitution.\ The present constitution states changes in it can be made only after the students have voted in a student body meeting. Aronzon replied, \The constitution has been misconstrued before.\ Cars for Frosh? The Council also approved a proposal, which will be presented to the All-College Council, that would allow freshmen to have cars during the spring term, if their index is 2.0 or better and if they are not receiving financial aid from the college. 0 , • f.:· The Senate has two powers in sweeps in the helped tq., with his best to set a · foreign affairs, confirmation of appointments and ratification of treaties, but, according to Rosenthal fails to exercise them effectively. He then summarized the development of the Viet Narn War as he sees it. Renewal of Union-RPI Basketball Rivalry ICAC Championship to be decided ·saturday The motion asks that freshmen be allowed to park their cars only in the two lots behind Richmond House and in the lot on the north side of West College. According to the campus police, the Council was told, no parking places are available, but freshmen councilmen claim there are enough spots to accommodate additional cars. If the proposal is approved by the ACC, cars owned by freshmen will be required to have a sticker, issued by the College, which \will signify that the owner or operator is a freshman.\ butterfly!'· Mike the dive, 200 yard ..,. battle the to Kings 4 I ,,, t: >' He said that he voted for the Gulf of Tomkin Resolution but that he '\should have know better.\ He said that neither Congress nor President Johnson saw \how far it would go.\ His next opportunity to voice dissent came when he voted against a ·supplemental appropriation for Viet Nam. He said that many congressmen were reluctant to take this step \because it could mean denying equipment to the troops in the field. After the Tet offensive, the price, '\in money and sons\ became too high for the American people to pay. The positive conclusions of BY GARY PREVOST Union and RPI have played 110 basketball games since 1899, but few have been as important as tomorrow night's contest in Memorial Fieldhouse. The 8:00 p.m. game will decide the ICAC championship, and will be an important factor for both teams in achieving a winning season. If the Garnet hoopsters come out on top, the victory will assure Union's first winning basketball season since 1963-64, when the Garnet finished with a 12-9 mark. The Dutchmen are presently 3-1 in the ICAC and 10-9 overall, while RPI has an identical Committee for a Student Voice Proposes Maintenance Plan The Committee for a Student Voice has made a counter-proposal to Professor Wilford H. Ketz's maintenance plan. \The reason for submitting our plan,\ said Alan Cohen, spokesman for the Committee, \is so that the students' voice can be heard regarding this matter.\ The student porposal says: I. The function of this institution is primarily educational. However, to enhance the student's education, the College provides extracurricular activities. IL At Union College, physical education is a requirement for graduation, owing to the concept that healthy students make better students. . We question, however, the concept that health should be a requirement for graduation. Ill. At Union, the only course absolutely required for graduation, aside from the physical education program, are Camp. Ed. 10 and 11. Certain language courses are needed for certain degrees, and certain courses are required within a major, but only the physical education department.can demand the student to enroll in ;::ourses for as marty as nine terms. IV. The occupation of the ~ymnasium by students not really hampers those who are truly interested. Equipment is at times employed by students making a token effort to show they are simply not wasting time. V. One will not maintain a sound body unless if is truly his desire to possess one. VI. With the preceding assumptions, we recommend that: I. The nine-term requirement be eliminated; 2. The gymnasium remain opened and its facilities remain available for all interested students; 3. The physical education department should offer classes depending on student interest. If feasible, lectures should also be initiated and credit offered for fully structured courses; 4. All changes in the present system be retroactive, including all stu dents presently enrolled in Union College. Cohen noted -a meeting will be held Monday at 7:00 p.m. in SS 016 to organize a demonstration to show the faculty there is support for the Committee's proposal. ' ·1 nte res ted in physical education He also said the proposal, drawn up by Bill Breiman, and Dean Hoffman, will be submitted to the Faculty Council for consideration next week conference mark and stands 7-8 on the season. Comparative scores are of little use in matching the two teams because of the glaring inconsistencies they produce. The Engineers buried St. Lawrence, 97~64, at home~ while Union fell 90-71 to the Larries in Canton, where the Garnet hoopsters have never won a basketball game. In contrast, Hobart made a two,day trip to the Capital District and downed RPI 66-59 before falling to Union 82-63. The rest of the comparisons are more consistent. Both squads have defeated Drew, Stevens, Clarkson, and Alfred while losing to Upsala, Rochester, and Hartford. The game would have to be rated a tossup, and should continue the tradition of tight Unicn-RPI basketbalL The last five contests have been decided less than ten points, with RPI claiming a 3-2 advantage. Previously unsung heroes have ofteh been instrumental. Last year it was Tom Nardi of RPI who stunned the Dutchmen, while two years ago, Union's Tom Urbelis, who had been suffering through a poor season, provided the spark. The Garnet's biggest advantage will be the cavernous field house, which is greatly different from RPI's cramped '86 Gym. The Engineers are led by junior guard Mike Kramer, who is a-veraging sixteen points per game, including fifty points in his last two outings. Kramer, who was instrumental in last year's 57~52 Engineer victory, is RPI's strongest defensive player as well as possessing a fine move to the basket. Backing up Kramer in the backcourt are sophomore Bill Howe, whc is averaging eleven points per gwne, and football star Jack Hart, whose best move is ball-stealing. Starting in the front court will be seniors 6-4 Pete Vanderzee and 6-6 Bruce Tarpley. The former is mainly an offensive player, but he has suffered through a poor shooting year, averaging eleven points per contest. Tarpley is a good defensive player, but he contributes little to the offense. 6-4 John Nosal likewise plays 11p front, where he has been averaging 6.4 points per game and an equal number of rebounds per contest. RPI is primarily a ball-control, possession squad. On the season, the Engineers have averaged only 68 points per game while yielding only 58 per tangle. The 6: 15 frosh prelim on Saturday also provides an interesting matchup. The Engineer yearlings are 10-1, having suffered their first defeat last Saturday at the hands of powerful Manlius, 9\1-88. Averaging nearly 100 points per game, the RPI frosh are led by 6-5 forward Randy Brown,. who is averaging 27 points per con test, e qaal to Garnet star Jim Tedisco. Baclcing up Brown in the front court is 6-7 Tom Neufer and 6-3 Steve Lasky. The backcourt is not as good, but Al Klein and John Conguilla can be powerful on a given night. Klein has scored as many as 34 in one game. As a team, the RPI frosh are shooting 50%, with Brown's 61% mark leading the way. Should the ACC determine there are not enough parking spots for freshmen, the Council hopes freshmen will be allowed to have cars in Schenectady, provided the cars are parked off campus. Winter Weekend Lest The Tax Committee released its financial statement, which will be published in Concordy on Tuesday. The councilmen were also told the Winter Weekend concert had made a $690 deficit, while Fall Weekend's concert had made a profit of $131.80. Profits from concerts are divided between the Tax Committee and class treasury accounts, but losses are paid for entirely by the Tax Committee. Last spring, the Wilson Picket-Flip Wilson concert lost the committee $3,000. Union-Conco.rd Cooperate Sponsor Summer Institute Union, along with Concord College of Athems, W.Va., will co-sponsor a summer institute in economics for teachers of disadvantaged ~tudents here from June 30 to Aug 8. The institute is funded by a $43,500 grant from the U.S. Office of Education, under the Education Professions Development Act. Brochures about the institute are being mailed to every high school in the Appalachia region. Bennett to Head Dr. William B. Bennett, associate professor of economics, is institute director. Prof. Bennet noted there are only seven such institutes in the country this summer. In addition to taking formal course work, participants in the program will have an opportunity to teach students in Union's Upward Bound project, which is in its third year. Upward Bound students come from disadvantaged sections, which. Will give institute participants actaal field experience in applying what they have learned in the institute. Credit Given Formal courses will cover the controlling forces in American economic development; the market system; society, economy and state; the problems of teaching disadvantaged students; and the new media in economic education. Making up the institute faculty, in addition to Prof. Bennet, will be Dr. Louis R. Salkever, professor and chairman of the department of economics at SUNY-Albany; Peter A. Prosper, lecturer in economics at Union; and Dr. Sidney Bell, assistant professor of history at Concord. Also, Dr. Robert L. Darcy, professor of economics at Colorado State University; and Sister Mary Desponsata, coordinator of social studies for the secondary schools of the Diocese of Buffalo. Union will offer six hours of graduate credit to participants successfully completing the institute, Prof. Bennett said. ' I

PAGE 2 FEBRUAaY 21, 196H ! · Letters to the Ed it or · Publi.,ned Tuesday and rnday dur- ing (he school year by the Student Body or Un10n Gollege. Srhenectady. N.Y; NatiGmal Advert1s1ng Repre- sentative: Nat Lonal Educ al'lonal Advertlsmg Serv1ce, Inc., College Pubhshers Representatne, 31>0 L<x1ngton Avenue, N. Y. C. EdLtoual Off1ce, Old Gym, Union C·ollege, Public at1on Ofhce, White· h-urst Pnntmg & ·81nd1ng Co., Inc .. , 4'1'&-4\il F'1fth Ave .. Troy. 235·4450. Entered m the Se henectady Post Offic'e as Second Clas\ l\la1l Matter. SubscriptiOn 20¢ a copy; $6 a year del1vered anywhere in the Unit••d States. SENIOR :IHMRD D Peter Dmlman ................................................ Editor-in-Chief : Business \1anager RH:harJ Lev-m.... .. .... ........ ..... ..... .. ... ..... .. .. . . William Out.or ................. : .......... , ........................ t-.lana)pllg biltor Alkn Cartnc 1 ........................................................... j\;ews Editor Pa.~ 1 I A 11 d r~ws ................................. ,_ ................... F acsimik Lditor llenry f~ia 1 ., ................. , ........... , ............................ Sports I· .. ditor Alan K,ldn .. ; ............. · ...... , ......... , ................. (ontributl\lg E_di:tor I ,· • 1 K- f'\llo<>~apll'· Editor · ,,c~1an ra.llJL:r ......... s .................................. '\ 0<' -' JUNIOR B()ARD Bruce H~sten ....................................... Associate Managi~g 'Editm Larry Fnedman ........................................... Assistant' News Editor Michael S~irsky ............................... National Advertising Ma~ager Jerry ~evme ......................................... Local Advertising Manager Jeff ~un ....................................................... Subscription Manager Ed Jerome ..................................................... Distrubition Manager Reply To the Editor: May I offer my apologies to Paul Andrews, Facsimile Editor, for having so jarred-the minds of C oncordy read-ers with my pre-high school style that they may have <liscarded their papers without having read hls lucid and in f onnative article on fraternities as well as the rest of Facsimile, similarly dedicated, which he editeJ so well. May I also apologize to Larry Friedman, Assistant News Editor, for having expropriated from him three short columns in which he might have revealed, with the faultless style of a detective story, more of the scandalous doings at Union. What has truly shattered me is the knowledge that my style has prevented the corrnnunication of an idea, which Concordy's fmest arbiters of style acknowledged as perhaps \ .. .interesting, even important.\ Nevertheless, I was most flattered to be mentioned in the same paragraph with Blake, Wordsworth, and Keats, however denigfating the allusion. I also apologize for never having graced the roster of Prof. - Co Ed w·eek· Meets \We want to emphasize to everyone that this is a student-sponsored movement. The co-ed weeks at Yale and other schools were initiated by their Administrations. This makes Union's co-ed week unique and means we students will have to rely on ourselves.'' Speaking were Mark Merson and Don Kessler, and they were addressing one hundred Union men who were attending the flrst meeting of the Experiment for Co-Educational Living in the Social Science building this past Wednesday evening. In keeping with the necessity of student cooperation -- albeit with Administration approval -- students are being asked to do recruiting on their own. Applications Available Letters of information have been sent to various women's colleges, but an impersonal piece of paper is never as effective as a charming male. Therefore, applications for Co-Ed Week are now available in the St1ldent Activities Office, and students are urged to ply every young lady of their acquaintance with one. If this does not happen, Co-Ed Week will not happen. This point cannot be stressed strongly enough. In reference to the women themselves, Kessler and Merson stated that they are shooting for an enrollement for the week of between one hundred and two hundred; time will not allow for the processing of more women than this, as the week will take place the first week of Spring term. The girls will be selected on the basis of providing as widely-diversified a women class as possible. A registration fee has not yet been fmalized, b1lt will probably be around ten d<lllars. Unlike co-ed weeks at other schools, the girls will be assigned to classes, with an eye towards balance. The women will be Now's The Time To MARRY ME David and Julie have done it. How About You. Tricky Diekle Buy your Wedding Ring at Maurie~ Graubart & Sons, Jewelersi 166 · Jay St. Serving Uriion for 3 generations. ' ' called upon to provide their own transportation. Housing Shortage Problems of housing, meals, and class-scheduling for the co-eds will be resolved by soon-to-be formed committees. But the major problem is TIME. A. great amount of work must go illto this project and only five 1\\eeks remain to do it. Merson and Kessler feel that immediate distribution and processing of applications is vital if the ,_.EWEST projected Co-ed Week will become a reality in the first week of April. A spokesman for the committee said, \it cannot be stressed strongly enou~ how vital student participation is -· especially in the area af recruiting -· to make Co-ed Week work. It is of vital necessity both to the growth of Union students as human beings in a realistic environment. LU,_.CH 71. S JllbaltY StrHt Specializing: - HOT DOGS WITH fAMOUS SAUCE - DINNERS AND SANDWICHES' - TAKE·OUT ORDfR5 - Union Studen .. kavorite Spot - (Serving Schenect-ady Since 1921 J Mon.- Thurs. 7 -A.M.-2 A.M. Fri.-S.t. 7 A.M.-4 A.M. Sun. 9 A.M.-1 A.M. Traditional Natural Shoulder Clothing Jos. Nusbaum, Inc. 447-451 State Street Our 6) st Year in· Downtown Schenectady Murphy's English 10 Class, and for those who have, may they forever prominently display their lapel pins emblematic of this achievement. To make :up for this omission I shall read my Concordy Style Manual as well as re-read my seven year old copy ofStrunk and White. I realize that pounding the hard news beat has little glamor, few by-lines, and many hardships known only to the small fraternity of dedicated men, whose selective choice insures the continuance of loyalty to high standards. Surely i-t must be irksome when an outsider like myself,a non-initiate, independent and non-affiliated with the staff, not even possessing a key to the Bronner House, fills a spot perhaps better suited for a beer advertisement. I was assured by Editor-in-Chief Drotman that had one of proper dimension existed at the time, my article W<luld have been incinerated, not inserted. Yes, it is true, I leave you this June. But it is ·reassuring to find that, though in these troubled times we kill each other for ideas, there rema:in men of style to carry on. A. Russell Jacobs, '69 Maintenance To the Editor: feel that the student voice is impotent. Actually, he would consider a more structllred system if the students desire <me, but if th.e students desire to determine their own physical condition, they are asking for more than the \kitchen sink.\ Furthermore, Mr. Ketz feels that there is little student opposition to his system since so few students attended a meeting. in Fox House to which he was invited. fNe're certain you heard .about it.) Mr; Ketz is not omnipotent; at Union we have a faculty .council which determines matters of curriculum. In the past, the faculty has been receptive to students' desires, especially where strong concern has been demonstrated. It is our desire to show the faculty (and Mr. Ketz) how the students feel about the physical education proposals - ours and Mr. Ketz's. There will be a meeting of interested students in SS 016 on Monday evening at 7:00. Please be there. Alan Cohen, Dan Shocket, Ray Krise, Jr. For the Committee for a Stud~nt Voice Criticism T() the Editor: ''Last Tuesday, Concordy progressed yet another step toward the fulfillment ef its. g0als, that of presenting a melange of unadulterated mediocrity, when it publi.sh.ed the abortive efforts of Mess.rs. Andrews and Friedman. These efforts consisted of the malicious, uncalled for verbal destruction of one Art Jacok, follow~d by a short clissertatio'1 1 . in which it was pointed out th~ t Art's literary talent compar~d 1 • unfavorably to that of Blaki , ·1 ·. Wordswmth and Keats. . Gentlemen, you point OU·t . with great eloquence tb~ I · ~ ••deficiencies\ iri Art's ability b communicate. However, in doing so, you also expose anotlwr deficiency, that is, y0ur sense tlf , \ decency and compassion. Did t 1 .· -ever occur _ to you, as you . callously weaved your web ~f sarcasm, that you may have · injured a person's feelings? A:nd why did you do so, to infonn the world ·of someone's writiiJg · weaknesses1 Had this been yeur . major concern, your letter ' would have contained a degre.e of sincerity. It also would have been constwctive. I only Write this letter to try to influence ycmr future writings, a~ I can n~t ~;,· make up for what you have already done. I do so because l believe there is good in, . everybody, maybe even in youu. Robert Paul Lamb·'72 Bl-ither ,) Applications for orientation group leaders are now available in the Dean of Students' offipe in Old Gym Hall. hll applications must be com~d and returned there by March14. All . freshmen, sophomores, anJi] I .. juniors, are eligible to apply. If there are any additional! questions, contact Ross Fraser,~ .· 425 West or Jim Kadernus, Delta 1 . 1 Chi. : Missing: One Red Ski Jacket last seen moving north on rout,e I fJve. If found please contaCt 1 David Emery - Reward. Educators so often speak of creating a college atmosphere in which a free exchange of ideas is permitted. However, all the talk in the world is worthless if students' opiniens are not even werth consideration. And indeed, Mr. Ketz of the Physical Education program makes us ;----------------------.'::-')I .:- DARI TREET \1000 GENERAL COUNSELOR POSITIONS RESTAURANT YOUR CHOICE A representative of Federation Employment and social CHAR-BROIL STEAK VEAL CUTLET CHICKEN ••• $ 1.65 2049 Van Vranken Ave. agency, will be on campus on Wednesday, February 26th at 10 A.M. to conduct interviews for summer counselor positions at city day and sleep-away camps affiliated with the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies. There is no fee for this service.\ FR 7-4261 What are some ol America's most creative scientists, engineers and mathematicians doino in the vacauonland ol North Jersey so close to Bew York CiW Advancing the power of peace .•. by maintaining the nation's leadership in munlti(lns, missiles, rockets and special weapons systems. This is the mission of Picatinny Arsenal. a vitally .important research and engineering center withirt the Army Materiei Command. Today's projects cover th~ entire spectrum of ad\. vanced technologies. Picatinny technical pe()pfe are leaders in their fields - their. assistance is sought by industry in cooperative applications of re$earch and engineering. Their papers can be found in the leading technical publication&. Plcatlony Arsenal offers you ,, unusuel oppr~rtunliy to advance in your chosen ff•ld of rese•rch Bnd engineering. Consider the career advantages: an e){cellent salary program with full Federal Civil Service benefits, paid graduate education programs, and a wide array of modern laboratories and test faci llties. Picatinny, readily accessible to some of the coun- try's finest engineering schools, is ideally situated in the lakelancls of Northern New Jersey. The area is unparalle[ed for farnily living and recreation. We have a clrallenge waiting for graduates at all degree levels In 0 MECHANICAL ENGINEERING 0 INDUSTRI~L ENGINEERING 0 CHEMI.CAL ENGINEERING 0 ELECTRICA.L and ELECTRONIC ENGINEERING 0 PHYSICS and MATHEMATICS A Picatinny Repr1$entative will be oiT Calllplll' wltb the U. S. Army Materiel Command lnteRi6Wers ( FE B. 24, 1969 ). Arrange for· an interview through your l\lacement Office. · If unable to arrange an. .. intervlew write: Mr. C. F. Ogden Civilian Personnel Division Plcatinny Arsenal Dover, New Jersey 07801 OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYMENT IN FEDERAl., CAREER CIVIL S_ERVICE U. S. Citizenship Required ' ,+ ·t ) I -.! ..., 'I ' Fe -Mt In requh Few' keepil good great now- explc matte our ~ conce comp1 truth. sana Union appeaJ elsewt times of ke conclu the n the Hg stu den that compt to ali1 Fir: is too have t since · and l follow lifting basket standi nothir towar1 receivt requ requir< third menti1 than clothi1 weigh intere~ visible condit a stud aroun1 little studer the lo- might light progr compl crushi studer thems< get tht In relaxa genen else\ assurn arran! of th them where neces~ on se physil make a day and s good we 01 questi Or: case i one c and with 1 Eni

Jacobr~, ' . thH compar~d '·. of Blak•, 1 ·. i point ou.t tb~ I · ~· ability t::> . in doing anotlwr sense tlf , ' \ Did t • · as you web vf · may have · And to infoun writiiJg been yeur . letter ' d a degree nave only Write influence I can n~t · ~;,· you have l good in. Lamb·'72 ,) orientation available offipe . hll comple~d March14. ores, an~ I .. o apply. If additional I Fraser,~ •· Delth I • 1 Ski Jacket I th on rout,e contaCt 1 social at nselor with for n· IN 'l \ FEBHUARY 21:, ~969 Faculty :Forum .Mens S:ana in Corpore Sano? In theory th.e. maintenance requirement is not a bad idea. Few would deny the benefits of keeping oneself in tolerably good physical condition. But the great debate raging at Union now - while ·other campuses are exploding ·over such trivial matters as the role 0f blacks in our society - •seems to be concerned only with the idea of compulsion and not with the truth of the old notion of mens sana in corpore sana. Should Union compel its students to appear at the gymnasium (or elsewhere) a given number of times per term for the purpose of keeping physically fit? My conclusion, afte.r seeing the way the requirement works, and in the light of current trends in the student-college relationship, is that we should drop the compulsion entirely and resort to a little persuasion. First, the present requirement is too easily made meaningless. I have been at the gym frequently since the beginning of this term and have often observed the follewing scene: a few students lifting weights, several playing basketball, and a great number standing with arms folded doing nothing. All of them sign the roll toward the end of the hour and receive credit for fulfilling the r e q u i r e m e n t , b u t t h at requirement, in the case of the third of the groups I have mentioned, is really little more than a compulsory change of clothing. Even those who lift weights seem to be more interested in developing excess visible muscle than in general conditioning. Rarely have I seen a student do more than five laps around the track. Perhaps with a little closer gu.idance, those students who are complaining the loudest over the requirement might have come to realize how light a burden the current program imposes. But the complaint is not really about the crushing burden; it is about the students' right to decide for themselves how th.ey will best get the necessary exercise. In the light of the recent relaxation in social rules and the general trend, both here and elsewhere, for students to assume greater responsibility for arranging their activities outside of the classroom, why not give them the right to decide when, where and if they will get the necessary exercise? If we insist on seeing to it that they keep physically fit, are we prepared to make them eat three good meals a day, brush their teeth regularly and stop smoking? We rely on good sense in these matters, and we ought to do likewise in the question of exercise. One could perhaps develop a case in favor ofretaining at least one course, or a set of lectures and demonstrations, dealing with the need for and benefits of Pl1ysical activity. Armed with reliable information, students would then at least know how best to go about getting the exercise they need once they realized the· need for it. But perhaps even this is too much. Such info!imation is readily accessible to any student who wants i.t. Why not put an end to this last vestige of the role of parent which the college used to assume? En ding the maintenance . requirement would not empty the gym. In fact, very little would change. There would .still be a few who lift weights to look better at .the beach, several would still play basketball, and a great number would still do nothing. But the third of these g:mups would not have to do nothing at th.e gym. They could stay in their rooms or sit in the Rathskeller. Of course one change would occur. No student who is otherwise qualified to receive a degree from Union would be kept from graduating with his class for failure to appear at the gym several times a term to watch his friends lift weights and play basketball. Perfect symbol of love The Keepsake engagement diamond is flawless with superior color and cut. ~GISTERED k , DIAMOND RINGS 428 STATE STREET RinJ:<'; rnlnrged to s:how dr-tml. Trnd~~Mark Rrg. LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN lialian • American F OGd 1125 BARRL:TT ST. Schenectady Dl 6-9744 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar Calendar Friday, February 21 Union: Wrestling: UnioR vs . .c!arkson, 4:00p.m. Film Series: S.S. 16, 8:()0 p.m. \Lesson in Love\ Russell Sage: Movie: ''The Pumpkin Eater\ 7:3Q p.m., admission. SO cents Albany State: Movie: \The Taming C>f the Shrew,\ Flag Room, State Quad, 7:30 & 10:30 p.m. Quad Members 25 cents, others 50 cents, \High Noon,\ Draper Hall, Old Campus, 7 & 9:15p.m. Saturday, February 22 Union: Wrestling: Union vs. St. Lawrence, 2:00p.m. Fr. Basketball: Union vs. R.P .I., Field House, 6:15p.m. Basketball: Union vs. R.PJ., Field House, 8:()0 p.m. Moving Finger: Old Chapel, 7:00p.m. Sunday, February 23 Union: Film Haps: S.S. 016, 7 & 9 p.m., \That Nan in Istanbul', 75 cents. Mother Ferro's Restaurant Specializing In Italian - American Food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking Dl 6-9554 1115 Barrett St. Nort Doug Dickens, blues guitarist, will appear for a return engagement at the North End coffeehouse at 8 tonigh. t in Bronner House, North College. Dickens plays mostly traditional 12-har blues on six PAGE 3 string and twelve string 1 acoustic gutitar, occasion ally accenting his capable guitar playing with harmonica interjections. It will be the second appearance for Dickens, a Scotia resident. Your faculty advisor asi(s you for advice?- Think it oveli over coffee. The Think Drink. f\or ~our O\Nn Th.nk Qr,nk Mug, S@nd 75C and )lOUr name and address to: n.,,r~k Or~·\ M I.Jg, Dept. N, P 0. So;~~. 559, N e<N Yor ... , N Y. 1 C046. T,tu• Internal Olldi Collee Organ•Za I• on. why would any thinking en · neer or scientist even consi er an r&d career with the arm}! materiel command Because he is a thinking engineer or scientist, one who reacts to hard facts, not fuzzy hearsay or mis· guided myths. And the incontrovertible fact is that the U.S. Army Materiel Command offers its civilian personnel n1ore immediate responsibility, more creative latitude, more diversity, more room for rapid growth than pri· vate industry can. Right now, for example, U.S. Army Materiel Command has programs under way in 7 llighly exciting, chal· lenging and innovative fields. They include aircraft v/stol & helicopters, electronics, missiles, mobility equipment, munitions, tank-automotive, weapons. Also total capability research laboratories. Each field offers wide areas of activity. You can get involved in R & D. Or Design. Or Quality Assurance and Reliability. Or Procurement and Production. Or Test and Evaluation. Whatever area you choose,. , and the choice is up to you ••. you'll get the strongest backing possible in terms of funding, facilities and highly skilled professionals. And a career with the U.S. Army Materiel Command is not only satisfying professionally. But financially, too. You get excellent salaries, superior Civil Service benefits, good working climate and a choice of 30 locations. And reassuring job stability. So, if y-ou have a degree in engineering, mathematics or the physical sciences •.. and would like to select rather than settle for a career, give a second thought to the U.S. Army Materiel Command. To help make up your mind, send for our \Creative Careers\ book· let. And be sure to see our campus interviewer when he visits your college. Address your inquiry to Rol.f 0. Ware, Recruitment Coordinator U.S. Army Materiel Command WE WILL BE ON CAMPUS FEBRUARY 24th 1015 Chestnut Street P'hiladelphia, Penna. 19107 An Equal Opportunity Employer

St. Lawrence Mats Here Sa.t. 2:00 P.M. Concordy Sports RPIHoop Tomorrow F PAGE 4 Cag,ers Wi:n Sq:ueak.er To Move Above .500 'Piate·au The Garnet hoopsters broke open a tight but sloppy contest with ten straight points early in the s~cond half and held on to defeat Wesleyan, 68-67, in the Fieldhouse Wednesday. It was the Dutchmen's first win over the Cardinals since 1957. The victory raised the Union slate to 10-9, marking the first time this season that Coach Schmid's squad has been over the .500 mark. ten points but Union went eight minutes without a field goal. However, Fitzgerald with ten points and Katzman with seven sparked a rally that produced a 31-31 halftime deadlock. The Garnet triumphed despite a sub-par offensive effort by Bill Neidel, whose strong second half gave him a total of fifteen paints. Barry Fitzgerald, who came off the bench to spark a first -half rally, finished with 13. Barry Katzman played a solid game, scoring 12, while Dave Shames and Bill Boemke completed the Garnet's most balanced scoring effort of the year with eleven each. Joe Summa led the Cardinals with 21 points as scoring star Jack Sitarz was held to only seven by Dave Shames and Warren Mumford. The first half was characterized by unbe1ievably bad basketball, as both teams shot only 32% and suffered numerous turnovers. Early in the half, Wesleyan led by as many as The opening of the second half was similar to the first, but the Garnet gained control by holding the Cardinals to nine points in the first ten minutes to gain a ten-point lead, 54-44. Wesleyan scored six in a row to narrow the lead to 54-50 with six minutes remaining. At this point, the Garnet went to a stall, with Barry Katzman doing all the dribbling. After more than a minute of dribbling, Barry hit a key basket for a 57-50 lead with four minutes on the clock. The Garnet maintained the seven-point lead with Warren Mumford who returned to the game only slightly recovered from a weekend ankle injury, and Bill Neidel hitting key baskets. The Garnet led 68-61 with 47 seconds remaining. The We s 1 e yan hoopsters got to within one with six seconds remaining, but the Garnet held on for the victory, despite missing on three one-on-one foul attempts down the stretch. H·ooP STATISTIC.S Player G FG FGA PCT. FT FT A PCT. RB PTS A VG. Neidel Boemke Mumford Getman Shames Katzman Fitzgerald Jacobs Spaulding Vergith Palen Strickland T. Rebounds 19 169 19 84 18 68 18 60 19 so 16 36 l1 25 15 9 8 6 8 2 9 3 3 329 .530 82 169 .496 44 193 .352 40 176 .341 23 141 .355 31 106 .340 24 67 .383 36 22 .409 6 21 .350 3 12 .167 8 7 .429 3 2 .500 0 98 71 62 39 44 40 53 12 5 10 6 3 .837 202 .620 227 .646 63 .590 98 . 705 53 . 600 27 .680 34 .500 21 .600 11 .800 6 .500 9 .000 144 420 212 176 146 131 96 86 24 15 12 9 2 22.1 11.2 9.8 8.1 6.9 6.0 7.8 1.6 2.1 1.5 1.0 0.7 Union T. 532 1302 .407 316 469 .675 963 1380 72.2 Opp. f. 544 1340 .406 338 528 .643 927 1426 15.0 ZELLl\IER'S NORGE LAUNDRY AND CLEANING VILLAGE AT 1559 VAN VRANKEN AVE. (at Hottie Street) DRY CLEANING WASHERS 8 L b s. . _ . __ .... _ . $ 2 . 0 0 1 2 Lb. - . - - - - - - - - - - 4lb. Min. ________ 1.00 20 lb.------------ DRYERS 3 0 Lb. _ .. - . - - - - - - - 1 0 Min. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ . 1 0 OPEN- MON. TO FRI. 8:00A.M. TO 9:00P.M. SATURDAY 8:00A.M. TO 5 P.M. (CLOSED SUNDAYS) IF YOU HAVE NEVE'~~ HAD NORGE DRY CLEANING CONE WE CAN BET YOU WILL BE AMAZED Down to Louis', let us go, Let the lager freely flow. .25 .35 .50 A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. NOW IN OUR 14th V.EAR for reservations phone FR 4-8917 FEBRUARY 21, 1969 ,Breaks'FeiiSwim '72 Hoop Falls in O.l. technical rule which forbids anyone By HANK LEVINE . By BRUCE GARBER to enter the water before a race has The Garnet freshmen lost a heartbreaker in overtime to Wesleyan and BILL HOLLERAN been completed, even a competitor in Wednesday night, coming out on the short end of an 80-79 decision. Wesl'eyan that same race. That disqualificatian started the game with a full court press and an obvious height advantage. The set the Garnet hack another eight Unien offense looked sleppy and was cold in the epening minutes of play. But '' points, raising the total lost by ill-fate with less than five minutes gone by in the fmt half, Jim Tedisco, Howie in two events to fifteen, more than DeLuca and Rich Goldberg hit on three jumpers to give Union an early 12-8 r VOL 98, Uni~ ... Of~ '[ n a m e e t m ark e·d h y disappointment and bad breaks, the Union swimmers dropped a 6241 decision to the R.P.I. Engineers. Had things gone as expected the scores would have been reversed, but as co-captain Steve Werlin put it, \the 'breaks just weren't with us.\ enough to make the ultimate lead. Gamet Frosh ,'Lead at Half differeRce. Wesleyan's big man, Akin, was not fed the ball in·side and his team's ou·tside Two events later, R.P.I. lucked shooting was cold in the early going. The Garnet had a difficult time setting.up out again, as Union's 'Dave Seward their top scorer, Jim Tedisco, but Jim set up numerous plays with 'fine .passes was touched out in the 50 yard for buckets by Howie 'DeLuca and Bob ·pezzano, as Union advanced their lead freestyle, despite his superb 23.5 to 20-15 with 6: 35 to .ge in the half. The remainder of the first half ended up effort. being a shooting contest between Tedisco and Akin. Jim ended up on top, and \· ··1 · \\Fro1 Things began to go wrong in the first event when John Horwath ripped a groin muscle on the third lap of his breaststroke leg 6f the 400 yard medley relay. Horwath finished, :but the relay, of Burt Yankiver, Horwath, Werlin, and Kevin Hoben, which has done 3:57 this season, finished with a disappointing 4:03.5, one second behind the Engineers. Going into the diving, the so did the Gamey, with the half time score reading 35-32 in favor of Union. Engineers boasted a 22-point lead, The opening of the second half saw both clubs very cold ~d sloppy. but Mike Rone and Harvey Wesleyan began to feed the ball to their big man inside and Aikin hit on Richmond again brought home eight numerous baskets. Tedisco and HoWie 'DeLuca continued to provide the points. In the next event, the 200 scaring punch for Union with good moves to the basket. Goldberg hit o~ a yard butterfly, another·Garnet sweep beautiful three point play with twelve minutes to go in the game to put Umon was crucial to keep in the meet, but ahead 50-46. Union found it difficult gaining control of the offensive beards, nothing could go right. Werlin took but Tediseo responded with ·some hot outside .shooting. A tight Garnet defense the first in 2:13, but Bob Szatrowski, forced numerous turnovers, while Jim and Hewie DeLuca cashed in on the ·I Abou.1 school stu part of th • that city' spend Fr. morning a upstate·co -' Pupils Bound pre income In the next event, the 1000 yard .freestyle, things got worse. Burt Y ankiver, still tired from the previous relay, won his event handily, and was out of the water before anyone else finished. Once out of the pool, Y ankiver felt tight, so he returned to the water to loosen up. Upon re-entry, he unknowingly violated a who was in second all the way, was buckets. caught in the f'mal 25 yards. Akin's hot hand for Wesleyan, coupled with a cold spell by Union, cut the From there it was all downhill for lead to one 73-72 with 1:-07 left. With thirty-one seconds remaining, Union the Engineers, who took 26 of the tried to wo~k for the last shot but ended up losing I he ball on a wild pass. standardiz ,, · ... arithmet ' 1 ·. from junk Everling Named New Mat Coach The appointment of 27 year old Gerald A. Everling as Garnet \Vrestling coach and assistant football mentor was announced Friday. He will succeed Coach Ron Coleman in the former position. Coleman will become indoor track coach next winter, complementing his present positions as Cross Count1y mentor and head Track and Field coach. Everling is a 1965 graduate of Syracuse, where he lettered for three years in both football and wrestling. In his senior year, he started at both tackle and middle linebacker for the Syracuse gridders, competing the Orangemen's 13-10 Joss to LSU in the Sugar Bowl. An outstanding college grappler, Everling won the 1965 Eastern Intercollegiate Wrestling Association championship at 191, after reaching the semi-finals as a sophomore only to lose to the future champ. The EIWA is one of the nation's major loops, including such wrestling powers as Lehigh. remaining 43 points, and coasted in Akin was fouled on the Wesleyan in bounds pass and n ade his foul shot to tie 1 on their early lead for the win. the score at 73 with 24 seconds left. Union asked for a time out to regroup, • · Today the mennen are in but was forced .to call another time out with only ten seconds left after having I Hartford, Connecticut, battling a trouble bringing the ball down court. The Garnet set up Tedisco for a final I· competent Trinity College squad. shot, but the toss was off the mark as the ball game went into overtime, with The win could raise the Garnet's the score tied at 73. ' i record to 4-4, with only Hamilton left on the schedule. Frosh Also Lose In a meet in which their lack of depth stood out glaringly, the freshman swimmers dropped their second meet in three starts to R.P.I., 54-40, at Foote Pool on Wednesday afternoon, As usual, the Garnet yearlings started fast, with the team of Gary Needell, Rich Gross, Vince Sinatra, and 'Dick Steinwurtzel winning the 200-yard freestyle, Needell splashed to first place with his time of :24.9, to up the Garnet's lead to 15-10. The turning point of the meet was probably the 100-yard freestyle, as the Engineers swept fust and second places to jump into a 33-29 lead. After Needell fmished second in the 100-yard backstroke to keep the Dutchmen close, Tom Hough blazed to a fust-place fmish in the 500-yard freestyle with the fast time of 4:50.5, and Vince Sinatra notched his usual win in the 100-yard breaststroke to rally the Garnet to within seven, 40-47. Any Union hopes for a tie, therefore, rested upon the 400-yard freestyle relay team. But R.P.I. capitalized on a lack of Garnet yearling depth to win both the relay and meet. The Garnet yearlings, hoping to return to the .500 level, closed out their season at Trinity this afternoon . T edisco Effort Falls Short Wesleyan went into a very deliberate offense in the overtime period, continuing to work the bail into their big man. Union was cold, missing the f'ust feur attempts at the basket, and was not able to grab any offensive \' rebounds. With 52 seconds left, Tedisco hit on two foul shots to make the score 77-75. Union then stole Wesleyan's inbounds pass but missed an attempt to tie the score. The Garnet fouled Wesleyan's guard and the officials·called an intentional foul, giving him two shots. He hit on both, to make_ the score .,., 80-77 with four seconds left. The young 'Dutchmen then called a tune out to set up a play. Tedisco took the in bounds pass and put in a lay-up, but time was out and the freshmen fell short by one. Tedisco was high scorer with thirty-eight points for the Garnet. Goldberg scored fifteen and Howie DeLuca 12. The freshmen's record now stands at 8·6. The hoopers take the court Saturday night against their traditional rivals from R.P.I. at 6: 15 in the Field House. 'i _. About the progn cent Puert !fhe bu at Union Following students , sponsored The progr communit Mock· ··Saturday members 1 J. Daniel S< DEWITT'S I • Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages 118- 12() JAY STRffT REMOVAL SALE LAST 2 DAYS (Cheaper than Cheap) Moving to 420 STATE NIAGARA vs ST. BONAVENTURE Be sure to watch this exciting game- televised live and in color. And while you're enjoying the action, enjoy bright, rewarding Schaefer -the one beer to have when you're having more than one. LIVE & IN COLOR· 2:00PM· WTEN ·TV C.H 10 .. ' CARETAK production The Cai1 writ1 onsidered enaissance 1 The play ~embers. T · ' 'ean Hoffm 'eMunn ha ·oductions

row 1, 1969 Wesleyan Wesleyan The play. But Howie 12-8 ou·tside .passes lead ended up top, and sloppy. in hit on the on a beards, defense in on the rt, cut the Union pass. to tie regroup, having a final with period, the offensive make the attempt an \A Causa Persa Parole · Assai\ The Virgin President Is Coming Fountled at Union College 1877 r VOL 98, NO. 31 Union Will Be Weekend Host ... Of 40 Disadvantaged Students '·/·~From New York City Schools . I About 40 disadvantaged high school students from New York City, part of the College BouBd program of • that city's board of education, will spend Friday evening and Saturday morning at UAion College as part of an I upstate·college visitation weekend. .. ; -' Pupils are selected for the College Bound program on the basis of the low i income status of their family, l standardized test scores in reading and ,, \\'arithmetic, and recommendations ' 1 ·. from junior high school counselors. To Attend Ptogram . ~ _. About one half of the students in I the program are Negroes and 30 per · cent Puerto Rican. 1.· !fhe busload of students is expected 'i at Union at about 6 p.m. Friday. Following dinner at Hale House, the students will attend a program \' , sponsored by Union's Black Alliance. The program will include campus and community leaders. Willard D. Roth, chairman of the Department ·Of Biological Sciences; and James D. Palmer, dean for the Center of Science and Engineering. The students will leave Union late in the morning to spend the remainder of the day at SUNY-Albany. Maras Heads Co-ordinator for the visit to Ul!lion is Joseph T. Maras, assistant director .of admissions. Pupils in the College Bound program m:e involved in a wide range of activities, including attendance at theatre, opera, dance, and motion pictures. They also visit places of historical and scientific interest in and around New York City, as well as colleges such as Union. SCiiiE'NECTADY, N.Y., FEBRUARY 25, 1969 PR:ICE TWENTY GE:Nlf'S Maintenance Change Proposed; Council Seeks Vice-President By ALANMELL The Student Council last night passed a motion requesting a major revision of the maintenance program, only to be interrupted by the entrance of about 35 students who had just attended a meeting of the Committee For A Stadent Voice, which had endorsed a similar motion. The Committee's motioa was read to the SC meeting by AlanCohen, the Committee spokesman. 'Th.e motion declares all physical education requirements should be eliminated and that the abolition of the requirement should be made retroactive, so that no seniors will be denied their diploma this year because they have not fulf':tlled the gym requirement. Elimination Proposed seniors had not been included because the committee felt that \students who violated the rules then in effect did so in full knowledge of the consequences. Condoning the violation of rules creates an atmosphere which leads to anarchy.\ Committee Will Give Support The Council agreed to include an amendment in its proposal, which asks that the change in the maintenance requirement be made retroactive to September, 1965, when the present seniors entered Union. Cohen and most of the students with him said they would support the Council resolution as it stands, Both resolutions ask that all gym facilities remain open to the college community and that classes in various sports be set-up for those students who want to enroll in them. The Council proposal will now be presented to the Faculty Council arid President Harold C. Martin. Constitution Poll Monday wm conduct the poll. Votes wiH be taken by secret ballot and will be counted at the Student Activities Office the following day, after the ballots .of all 4 2 living units are received. Students living off-campus may vote in the Student Activities Office on Monday. Drug Report Endorsed The student-faculty-administration committee's report on drugs was endorsed by the Council. The Cbuncil was told the report seeks to provide the means to prevent a 'bust' on campus, by allowing the college community to deal with students who violate drug laws. Professor Charles Olton, a member of the committee, was reported to believe that a college is inviting intervention by federal and state authorities when that college officially ignores the drug situation on its campus. ~ the score .,., Mock classes will be staged · ··Saturday morning. Union faculty members participating will be William J. Daniels, assistant professor of science; Malcolm R. Willison, lec·turt~r in sociology; David J. Snider, coordinator of religious activities; Two thirds of the pupils in the program begin in the ninth grade, the remaining third iri the lOth grade, the grade level of most of the students visiting Union. All students selected for the program are invited to attend a seven-week summer session sponsored by College Bound, where they receive instruction in English and mathematics. The proposal passed by the Council a few minutes before calls for the ,elimination of maintenance, but the retention of the physical fitness and water survival tests. The only other graduation requirement in phys. ed. would be ·one physical fitness or water survival class for those students who fail either test. Plans were also announced to hold the living unit poll on the proposed constitution next Monday, between 6 and 12. Copies of the constitution, with fhe revisions made at the Student Body meeting two weeks ago, will be in the hands of aU pollsters next Monday. Council members and R.A.'s Don Kessler, Ed Rundell and William Ouzer, all soplunores, were nominated last night for the post of vice-president of the Student Council. The position was vacated last Wednesday by Jim Stillman. The Student Council will elect one of the three nominees next Monday. out to but time Goldberg stands at onal rivals I • • . ' . The Council's motion made no mention of seniors. Walter Spencer, who drew up the motion with a SC . committee, said a clause concerning · CARET:\KER: Jeffrey DeMunn, Dean Hoffman, Bruce Shackleton, rehearse for this Thursday nights opening of the third . productton of the year. Actors Stage \Caretaker\: lay Commences Thursday , The Mountebanks will present their .hird major production of the year on wo consecutive weekends, Thursday, , and Saturday, February 27, 28,.and March 1 and March 6, 7 and 8. The will be Harold Pinter's Caretaker. The Caretaker is one of the first written by Pinter, who is onsidered a leader of the recent enaissance of the British Theater. SmaU Cast The play has a cast of only three !embers. They are Jeffrey DeMunn, ' 'ean Hoffman, and Bruce Shackleton. 'eMunn has acted in over a dozen •oductions at Union, and last year directed Waiting for Gadot. Hoffman is also the theatre veteran of acting, most recently as Biedermann in The Firebugs, only a few weeks ago. Shackleton, although a senior, is making his acting debut in The Caretaker. Director Henry Weil considers him excellent in the part. Free Admission Union students will be admitted to all performances free, and their dates for one dollar. Seats should be reserved in advance at the box office or by calling 346-4098. The box office will be open Monday through Saturday of the weeks of the performance, from 1 to 5 p.m. Curtain time for all performances is 8:30. Co-ed Weelc Progressing, Merson Says News of Co-ed Week at Union has begun to spread to women's colleges this week and the student administration of the spring term 'experiment' will be announced later this week. Letters have been sent to the students at l 7 women's schools and applications are available to girls at Jackson, Mount Holyoke, Simmons, Skidmore, Smith, and Vassar. The tentative date for Co-ed Week remains the first week in April, but a final decision will be announced later tl1is week, according to Marie Merson, one of the project's organizers. Merson emphasized that the success of Union's Co-ed Week depends on the distribution e>f applications by Union students to their female acquaintances. Information and application materials are available at the Student Activities Office. Convocation Speakers Any member of the Collegt: community wishing to suggest possible convocation speakers for 1969-70 should submit a written list of nominees to Prof. n~ Ross, Dept. of Classics, Humanities Building. A brief resume may be included if the nominee is not generally known. Because the time for contacting possible future speakers is fleeting, lists must be submitted by next week Scholar Aid Bill Opposed The SC also passed a motion that opposes a bill now in the two houses of the New York State Legislature. That bill would allow the State to withdraw financial aid (i.e., Regents' scholarships) from students who commit a crime while engaged in a campus riot. Peter Drotman presented a resolution calling for the elimination of credit for ROTC courses at Union. The Council decided to table the motion until a committee, appointed I as t night, had investigated the conseqliences of the proposed action. ''Stu.dent Voice'' Group Meets; Adopts Maintenance Alternative By STUART NESLIN With emphasis on the need for total student participation, Alan Cohen, spokesman for the Committee for a Student Voice, addressed a meeting of 55 students in SS 016last night. Cohen read the Connnittee's proposal concerning the maintenance system. Revisions included the scheduling of classes for those who desire them, and the possibility of academic credit for those who take gym classes. Discussion resulted, during which the basic aim of the Committee's proposal was again stated: that each student be responsible for his own physical condition. A segtnent of the Ketz report concerning health as a graduation requirement was disputed. Alternatives Suggested A motion that the Committee's proposal be amended to state that academic credit would not be given to those in gym classes was tabled, but later passed by a visible majority of those present. Concerning further student action, several alternatives were suggested, including that studen.ts take maintenance naked, in defiance and protest of the system. It was then decided to bring the proposal to the Student Council meeting, already in progress. Differences Found .... Upon entering the Council meeting, it was found the Council had passed a proposal on maintenance, differing from the Committee proposal ill several matters. The Council proposal provided for fitness tests for freshmen, with a passing score of 250, and the stipulation that the 25th percentile not have to be met in each test. Those unable to pass would be required to take one, and only one term of physical education classes. The Council proposal would also retain the swimming test, with those unable to pass it required to take one course in elementary swimming. A point of difference between the two proposals was the matter of retroactivity, to include current seniors. Cohen noted several seniors have not met their physical ed. requirement, and he predicted a future confrontation with existing rules. ... And Resolved Discussion followed in the Council, with differences between the proposals resolved. Cohen, apparently satisfied with the Council proposal, endorsed it, saying that others who opposed it would have to do so independently ·of the Committee for a Student Voice. More discussion will come on the maintenance question when the Faculty Council meets, as students will be consulted regarding their ideas on the maintenance program. Cohen indicated that he will request to be present at the meeting of the Faculty Council.

PAGE 2 Publls~ed Tuesday il,lld Fnday dur· ing the schoo 1 year by the Stuclent Body of UmonCo!lege, Schenectady. N.Y. Naltonal Adver.tJstng Repre- sentative: National Educattona-1 Advert1s1ng Serv1ce, Inc .. College Pubh·she•s Represenlatlve. 360 Lr:>xinRton Avenut-, N.Y. C. Ed 1t on a! Qfftce, Old Gym, Umon Co~l.ege. Pub!tcatlon Off tee, Whtte- hurst Prmtmg & Bwdmg Co .. Inc .. 416-4!8 Ftfth Ave .. Troy. 235-4450. Entered m the Schenectady Po·st Off1ce as Second Class Mat! Matter. Subscripllon 20·~ a copy; $6 a yea• debvered anywhere an the United Stat·es. SENIOR BOARD D. Peter Drotman .............................................. Editor-in-Chief Richard Lewis ................................................ Business Manager William O_uzer .................................................. Managing Editor Henry Fem ........................................................... Sports Editor Paul Andrews .................................................. Facsimile Editor Alan Klein .................................................. Contributing Editor JUNIOR BOARD Bruce Husten ................................... Associate Managing Editor Larry Friedman ............. , .. , ..................... Assistant News Editor C~rl Goldsa!ld .................................. Assistant Busin.ess Manager M1chael s:wmky .......................... National Advertising Manager Jerry Levme .................................... Local Advertising Manager Jeff Birn .................................................. Subscription Manager Ed Jero:t?e ................................................ Distributing Manager Lloyd Btrns .................................... Ass't Subscription Manager Andrew Crisses .................................. Assistant Features Editor New~: ~teve Levy, Stu Neslin, Alan Mell, Randy Sutter Fa~sumle: Peter Weingold, Alan Greenfield, Bill Shapiro, Ray Knse Sports: Gary Prevost, Stu Moss, Jay Blitzman Bill Holleran Bruce Garber, Hank Levine ' ' . '·.' CONTRASTING VIEWS ON MA·INTENiNYCE- PRo: STEVE BR,AFF CON: DAN SHOCKETT Dr. Ketz has very ambitious plans, and fairly expensive ones· to improve the facilities and expand. ·Could there he something Union needs morf;, than new facilities? H attendance at the gymnasimr wm!ld markedly drop, as th~ entire physical education facuJ,t:i\' says it will, there would he nc need for this expensiv.~ expansion, as these facilitie?J would be more than adequatf! for the \few\ that show u,p . Then the money could be spent on luxuries, like women's dorm\,.. BY STEVE BRAFF There seems to be a growing theme at Union: \Can the Maintenance System!\ It is important to note that those . who feel maintenance should be abolished say so because of one major reason. They feel it should n9t be part of the curriculum, hence. a requirement for graduation. Their reasoning follows the pattern of, \if it's a drag to do something, then I should not have to do it!\ Unfortunately, life's not so smooth. There are things we must do thaf we have no desire to do. More specifically, physical education and conditioHing do serve some useful purposes. They keep (or ideally should keep) the body strong and in good health. The phrase healthy body equals a healthy mind, is more appropriate than most people are willing to admit. BY DAN SHOCKETT There is a large group of Union students who cannot understand why they must attend two physical education non-classes a week. They are puzzled that classes are not compulsory in many instances an.d a maintenance class is. Some can't understand why they are expected to behave as adults, are saddled with many of society's responsibilities, are, according to ~h~ administration, capable of an mtlmate relationship with a member of the opposite sex, are caught up in a social, moral, and political revolution, and have to go to gym twice a week. Somewhere there is a distortion of values. I attended Dr, Ketz'·i discussion at Fox Lounge. Ther•! was a great deal of discussion but no an.swers. Dr. Ketz .kepi repeating that if the students would rather have a structmed program than maintenance, thr;, could be arranged. \A sound body means a sound mind.\ Sonny Liston wiU be delighte<l to know that. And the onh thing that prevents Orson Welle's from making another \Citize11 Kane\ is 100 pounds. . I ~id learn somethin.g mterestmg from that discussion, however. Union will continuetQ get state aid without a physicaJ education requirement. FEJ3RUAI .t ~rax ~Deli Student Council: Last Gasps To say that self determinism is the only reasonable solution to all problems is just buUshit. This gets to the nitty gritty of the basic problem in our universities today. There is a great deal of energy exercised towards the destruction of various progra.ms and requirements, but no viable alternatives are being proposed. ~ilfred Ketz is not an ogre, he is JUSt a scared man, one who is hav~g trouble seeing the logic behind the anarchistic direction some students efforts are pointing toward. This lack of perception is not due to the generation gap for I, too, am having trouble understanding the rational of some of my fellow students. It is quite true that with totalt freedom, there can be no fveedom at all. There must be an ,element of order and structure in our lives. It would be. 1 udicrous to say that mamtenance, as it exists at Union, is the answer to our need for order. But, it is an institution that has some merits and hence one which sho~ldn 't b~ terminated without careful consideration and thoughtful debate. Phys. Ed. after all the shouting is over, is still only Phys. Ed. Our bodies are not immobile outside of the gymn~sium. Exercise is capable of bemg accomplished without supervision. A workout is nice hut is far from a necessity: ~hough it may be only two times a week, it is, a great deal of the time, a needless pain in the ass. If a student really does not want to exercise, to force hi~ at this age is slightly ludicrous, and has resulted in ~nly a waste of everybody's hme. Don't you have somethi11g . better to do than to go to two 1. maintenance classes a week~ 1 , do. In or< I .. body kn< I. money is we, the present Although this appears to be the last term of the Student Council's existence, inasmuch as it shall, in all probability, be replaced by a representative form of government under the new constitution - the Student Senate, Concordiensis lauds the results of last night's meeting. The Council discussed three issues which we consider very important, acted favorably on two of them and tabled the third. We.''were extremely gratified to see the Council take a st~nd on the maintenance program virtually coterminous Wlth that recently outlined in this column. Walter Spencer and the Council Maintenance Committee prepared a sound ~eport. This, coupled with the suggestions of the mdependent Committee for Student Voice, precipitated what ;ve fee~ to be a recommendation to the Faculty Council that ts both feasible and representative of student opinion .. If the F~culty Coupcil is interested in legislating changes m the mamtenance program which reflect fairness efficiency and student in,teres~ t,his is the most applicabl~ program to ratify. · \ ~ · In further action, the Council endorsed, without dissent, the report of the Student-Faculty-Administration Committee on Drugs at the College. The report, which in essence states that any drug problem here will be viewed as a College community problem to be resolved by the community, manifests the trend toward both .growing student responsibility and increased communication among the members of the College community. The report, if further endorsed by the ACC and any other legislative bodies, will not significantly change what at present appears to·be the College's drug policy. Rather, the report delineates that policy and therefore deserves swift ratification, The Council also entertained a motion to recommend to the Faculty Council that credit be withdrawn from AFROTC courses. However, most of the Councilmen present did not feel adequately familiar with the issue; and, as a result, the motion was tabled. We see the issue as being quite clear, and find no need to restate our policy toward AFROTC courses here. We condemn the Council's inaction on this issue. Despite the importance of the motions acted upon, only 19 of 28 (the absolute minimum for quorum) Council members were present last night. This situation, taken in light of the Council's inability to raise a quorum for a full half hour at its last meeting, ~erves to point out the need· for the student body to act favorably upon the new constitution in the upcoming referendum. INFORMATION OFFICER: Guillaume F. M. van Eeden the Senior Information Office~ at the South African Information Service in New York will speak to the IRC Tuesday, Feb. 25 at 7:30 in SS 016. The topic will be: Africa's Destiny -- Black and/ or White. ..................... LongToTalk About Soul· Wednesday Dr. Charles Long, associate professor of religions at the University of Chicago, will hold open discussions with students Wednesday and Thursday. His topics will include \On the Loss of Soul\ \On Silence and Signification: A Note on Religion and Modernity\ and \Religion and the Future.\ He will view these subjects both as an historian of religions and as an American Black. On Wednesday night he will be in the Phi Gamma Delta lounge from 7:00 to 8:30. He will than go to West College lounge to meet with students between 9:00 and 10:00. Thursday evening, he will be in the Davidson House lounge from 8:00 to 9:00. These three meetings will be open to all students. Each will begin with a short statement by Dr. Long. Students will then be asked to participate in an open discussion. He will also meet with various classes. Dr. Long is a graduate of Dun bar College in Arkansas. He studied at the University of Chicago, where he received the · degrees of B.A., B.D., and Ph.D. He edits the journal History of Religions. .I / / Join a leader in the fast growing field of rocket and missile propulsion EXPLORE the potential for p'rofess1onal achteve- ment at the Naval Ordnance Stat1on. Indian Head Maryland. · Few techntcal ftel.c:!s offer you as many oppor- tunitieS for an exc1ttng and rewarding career as the rap1dly growtng f1eld of chemical propuls1on. lndtaR Head 1s a recogntzed leader 1n research. develop· ment. product1on. and evaluation of propellants and rocket propulsion systems and has advanced the state-of-the-art of chemtcal propulSIOn through partlopatton wtth the Department of Defense and NASA lnd1an Head has made tmportant contnbu· ttons to the Polans. Posetdon. and Stdewtnder propulsion systems as well as VIrtually every mtSStle system m use by the Fleet today. Located 25 miles south of Washtngton. D. C . lnd1an Head IS close to the cultural. soctal. and J · sctent1f1c advantages of the Nation's Cap1tal offenng opportun1t1es for pleasant suburban or country ltrc near mountatn and shore resorts Professional positions available in: Engineering Science Aerospace Electrontcs Electncal Chem1strv Chemtcal lndustnal Mec·hantcal Phystcs Ltberal career C1vtl Servtce beneftts mclude graduate study at nearby untve'Stttes wtth tutttan expenses retmbursed ~ Naval Ordnance Station . Indian Head, Maryland 20640 , ·'~- statemen1 The c consists Chairm Secretary Member; ofthe stu ·!il for the from the Activities student · ·~tt registratic Each: required· budget VI by thp establisqil for the nt ·teach ye: submittec then mee activity 1 ~upon thei We fee explain s <&the ace< The first for the I! printing < f issue. Th~ The faculty , house Building · tomorro students are welco The J · tt decided $1200 to Departm~ the cost , The 1 if team pl: compe.tir Univer Interc< ~ Tourna: Union, - Harold 11 record That th~ vangauar Representative on Campus For interview, contact your placement office Friday, February 28 An Equal Opportumty Employer . } Neil ~ lnternatic II}) '1

·..l 1969 FEJ3RUARV 25, 1969 CE· STUDENT TAX COMMITTEE FINANCIAL STATEMENT T ambitious nsive ones; and be more, ities? H as th~ be nc facilitie:..; adequatf! show u,p. ld be spent donn\,-. r Ketz'-; Ther•) discussion, Ketz .kep1 students structmed thr;, \A sound mind.\ deligh te <I the onh Welle's er \Citize11 .t ORGANIZATION Political F otull1 Cheerleaders I do]; Union Book Photography Campus Religious Council Mmmtebanks Omcordiensis Philomatheans International Relations Club Dutch Classic League Film Workshop Outing Club Concert Ensemble· W2UC ·Moving Finger Matli.Ciub 'Glee Club Young Republicans Student Council Young Democrats WRUC CoiJ!II!unity Pre-Med Society -Bridge Club Big Brother North End Circle K 'Linebacker International Students Club Sports Student Activities Freshman Record 1st Term Income 1st Term Expense AMOUNT AMOUNT REQUESTED GlVEN $3HOiOO $230Q;Q() 379.90 379.90 4445.00 3445;0() 11570100 10820.00 1457.90 1332.90 175,00 175.00 4935.31 3465.00 11859;02 10619.02 21l15,00 1925.00 2565.00 2·165.00 115.00 . 115.00 5635:00 3635.00 1482.00 947.00 6000.00 5350.00 488:00 488.00 1340.00 1000.00 205;00 125.00 8293.90 7400;()0 180;00 136.00 1810:00 1050.00 150.00 150:00 5360.00 5360.00 300.00 200:00 -100:00 100.00 75.00 50,00 320.00 185.00 540!00 200;00 997.00 90.00 2700:00 850.00 570.00 200:00 3412;00 3000:00 1000.00 1000.00 1417.00 1417:00 69674.82 $25,620.00* 25,688.83 * Includes $3000 from President's Contingency. Fttnd something discussion, continue to a physic:aJ somethi11g go to hvo 1. a week? 1 1 ~rax Committee Workings ~Delineated by Fraser In order to let the student I . . body know how its student tax ! . · money is being spent this year, we, the Tax Committee, ar, presenting this itemized ot. statement. The committee, this year, consists of Craig Youner; Chairman; Ross Fraser, Secretary; Neal Gordon, Senior Member; and ihe Vice-President of the student body. The income · !tl for the committee is derived from the fifteen dollar Student Activities Fee paid by each student three tlines a year at ·w. registration_ Each spring every activity is required to submit a preliminary budget which is then reviewed by thp Tax Committee, establis4ffig a tentative budget for the nexi year. In the Fall of ·t each year fmal budgets are submitted. The Tax Committee then meets separately with each activity to discuss and decide ~ upon their specific allocation. We feel that it is necessary to explain some of the figures in -& the accompanying statement. The first term expenditure listed for the Idol includes the $1300 printing cost of last years fmal 'f issue. That bill was not received until after last years books were closed. In addition, due to an unforseen increase in printing costs, the 1968 Gamet mcurred a $3000 loss which had to be absorbed by this years budget. This year's Fall Weekend made a profit of $181.00, while Winter Weekend lost approximately $650.00. Any profit made on a weekend is split between the sponsoring class and the Tax Committee. Any losses, however, are entirely underwritten by the Tax Committee. While allocations are made in the Fall for the whole year, the Tax Committee keeps a close watch on all activity accounts and reserves the right to re-allocate money, if necessary, at any time during the. year. The books, located in the Student Activities Office, are open to any Union College student. TP.e Committee welcomes suggestions concerning student activities from any interested member of the college community. Ross Fraser, Secretary Student Tax Conunittee BLITHER D. C . J . soc1al. and off en ng country Ide Science ChemiSt IV PhySICS mcluoe (UI\1011 The ltumanities division faculty will sponsor an open house in the Humanities Building faculty lounge at 4:30 tomorrow afternoon. All students and faculty members are welcome to attend. The Block U Society has · t' decided to contribute up to $1200 to the Physical Education Department to aid in defraying the cost of a new wrestling mat. The Union College debating ~ team placed eighth among 6 5 compe.ting teams in the MaGill University International Intercollegiate Debating ~ Tournament. Revresenting Uniort, - Richard Wiener and Harold Ross compiled a 4-1 11 record debating, \Resolved: That the University be i,n the vangauard of social change.\• Bmployf!l' Neil F. Michelsen of the International Business Machine II)) 'I Corporation will address the annual student-member dinner of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Thursday evening (2/27) at Hale House on the Union College campus. The Class of 1972 will sponsor a mixer on Friday, February 28, in the Alumni Gymnasium at 8:30 P.M. Transportation arrangements have been made for girls from Skidmore, Albany State, and Ellis Nursing School to attend. Men will be charged one dollar for admission. Music will be provided by The Soft Wax. Apologia Concordiensis regrets that Prof. Donald Ross' by-line was inadvertantly omitted from last Friday's Faculty. Forum article, \Mens Sana In Corpore Sano?\ ~rof. Ross is with the Department of Classics. ALLOCATED 1st TERM $2300.00 379:90 1148.33 3606.66 1332.90 58.33 1155.00 3539.67 481.00 555.00 1878.33 947.00 2675.00 162.67 rooo.oo 125.00 2467.67 136.00 1050.00 150.00 5360:00 200,00 100;00 50.00 185.00 200.00 90.00 200.00 3000.00 1000.00 1417;00 36765.46 AMOUNT SPENT lst TERM $1440:00 131.60 222D.41 1104.38 766.08 65.98 37U4 5195.39 387.80 766.25 124.45 2463,67 40.67 5.00 17.50 1067.47 78.71 342.52 40.25 5360,00 14.00 9.41 135.92 679.60 543.57 1417.00 25688.83 2nd Term Income 2nd Term Allocations ALLOCATED 2nd TERM $860.!)0 24~.30 1143.33 3606.66 566.82 50.68 1155.00 1883.95 48k00 555.00 1878.33 822.55 1337.00 162.67 995.00 107.50 2467;67 57.23 707.48 109.75 200.00 86.00 50.00 175.59 64.08 90.00 200.00 2320.40 456.43 22838.42 $22,170.00 22,838.42 PROJECTED 3rd TERM $·1143.33 3606.68 58.33 1155.00 3539.67 481.00 W55.00 115.00 1878.33 1338.00 162.67 2467.67 850.00 Projected 17850.68 3rd Term Income $22,000.00 3rd Term Allocations 17,850.68 II A New American film by Graeme Ferguson Starring Severn Darden A high political comedy which takes off on the speculation \What would happen if the United States of America were ruled by a monumentally incompetent President ... \ · 7:00 & 9:00p.m. WORLD PREMIERE UNION COLLEGE MEMORIAL CHAPEL THURS., FEB. 27, SAT •• MARCH !, SUN., MARCH 2 A POMEGRANATE PRODUCTION ADMISSION $1.00 PAGE 3 '. i \ ,, li l j; ' ;.

Hamilton Swim Here Wed. PAGE 4 Concordy Sports Frosh Hoop Faces Siena FEBRUARY 25, 1969 V H_ooFpl·lst_e4. r~,~~~.~~core ~7~ 3 !!~~~~~w~,~~ w1~ayed~~~L~ f,!~~~~ooo~e~~~!S~~ftju~~~~~~~ ~ arstty a s 50 7 With 10:06 to play before Barry Garnet lost by 32 pomts. well-executed ball game, but could b yd th b d f controlled the tap as the game ended · · · Th D 1 n1 1 · t th \ t heioht Goldberg grabbe e re oun rom 'I . 'l Fitzgerald h1t from behmd the key to · e utc 1men can o Y c rum an no overcome e ,rea \<; . p . d h' with .the Engineers on top 67-65. W 1 1 Face Ham1 tOO give the Garnet a 41-38 lead, with advantage with as 83-62 win over advantage o~ the overwhelmmg the second shot, but R. .I. tie llU BY HENRY FEIN 8:38 remaining. Hobart, which compares with an pre-game favo_ntes .. Neidel put the Garnet ahead for 88-7 0 Hamilton loss in their season Unom Gams Lead and GARY PREVOST Poor shooting and an inability to penetrate inside against a tough man-to-man defense spelled defeat for the Garnet hoopsters Saturday night, as they lost a heartbreakirlg 504 7 decision to RPI in the Fieldhouse. The defeat gave the Engineers the lCAC crown, and brought both ballclubs to the .500 level. The Dutchmen now stand 10-10 with one game remammg, while the RPI cagers are 8-8 li>n the season. Play was cautious from the opening tap, with both sides shooting only when good opportunities. presented themselves. The Garnet cleared the defensive boards especially well, limiting the Engineers to a single shot. With 8: 12 gone, Bill Neidel hit his second basket from the comer to stake the Dutchmen to a 12-4 lead. Bill Howe of the Engineers began to hit over the middle, and RPl cut the lead to 20-18 with less than five minutes left in the half. Neidel widened the lead to 22-18 with 2:22 to go, and at the half the Garnet led, 26-22. Neidel Leads Scoring Neidel and Howe controlled the first-half scoring, with 14 and 12 points, respectively. The Garnet star hit from the corner with consistency while Howe scored on jumpers against Barry Katzman, over whom he had a five inch height advantage. In the second half, Coach Chris Schmid sent Warren Mumford against Howe with great success;he was held to a single field goal. The law of averages caught up with Neidel, however, in the second half. He began to miss from the au tside and was held to four points in the stanza. The failure of the Dutchmen to work the ball inside coupled with Neidel's lack of scoring hurt deeply. Katzman scored seven points in the first five minutes of the second half, principa!Iy on driving layups, to widen the Garnet lead to 35-28. But over the next seven minutes, the Dutchmen scored only six points,as RPI controlled both boards and the Garnet failed to penetrate the middle for good scoring opportunities. The the last tin1e with a basket with 6:51 opener. The Continentals' third loss R:P.I. rallied· to take the lead, to gli>, 43-42, but the Dutchmen did came last Friday, when they fell 22-21, with 7:40 remaining. Union not score again until Mumford sank a 73-68 to Division II Ithica, blowing a was a bit ·stunned by the outside driving underhand layup with 2'27 lead in the fmal two minutes after shooting of IGein again, as R.P.I. left to pull the Garnet within one, star center Bob Voss was ejected for advanced its lead to 30-27, but 46-45. During this stretch, Fitzgerald fighting. Howie E>eLuca and Dick Davis twice missed one-shot fouls that Voss is Key responded with jumpers to put Union resulted from a lack of Garnet Voss is the key to the Continental back in the lead 35-32 with less than shooting. team, averaging 18.5 .points per game. one minute remaining. R.P;I. worked RPI center Bruce Tarpley, a good Though only 6~3, Voss is one of the for the :Jast shot before the shooter who had been suffering best rebounders the Garnet will face. intermission,. and put in a lay up at through a poor season pumped in His strong rebounding triggers a the buzzer to narrow the Garnet lead eight points in the second half and devastating fast break which is led by to one, 35-34 at halftime. twelve in the gan1e, including a key senior guard Brooks McCuen, who is The second hald opened with both one-on-one with 51 seconds left to averaging 18 points per contest. The ball clubs looking. sloppy and cold. give the Engineers a 48-45 lead. other starters are 6-2 senior forward Union took a five point lead, 39-34, Kramer Sinks Two After Fitzgerald missed another foul, Katzman stole the ball, drove the length of the court, put in a driving layup, but was called back for traveling with 25 se<;onds to go in the contest. RPl's Mike Kramer, a 16.5 average man who was held to eight points, then hit a one-on-one with nine seconds left to ice the contest. To achieve the first winning varsity basketball season irl four years, the Garnet hoopsters will have to defeat a very strong Hamilton squad, which stands 12-3 on the season. A study of comparative scores makes the Garnet an underdog. The Continentals have defeated three teams that have claimed the Dutchmen as victim: St. Lawrence (twice - 96-82 and 91-80), Harpur (76-73) and RPI (68-57). Both teams have turned aside Clarkson, Middlebury, and Norwich while losing to Rochester. Hamilton fell to - - , Bill Barton and junior guards 6-1 but saw that lead disappear to a Mike Greico and 5-8 Jerry Pisanelly. 42-42 score ·on hot shooting by Klein The former is a good outside shooter and John Cangilla. R.P.I. continued and Pisanelli is the play maker. with their deliberate offense and The key for the Garnet will be in took the lead 44-42 with 13:24 to go stopping Voss and preventing the in the game. R.P.I.'s control of the Continentals from unleashing the fast offensive boards increased, and so did break, which has ali owed them to their lead, as the score stood 54-50 in average 85 points per game. A year their favor with 9:02 remaining in ago in the Fieldhouse, the Garnet the half. stopped basically the same personnel With 2: 11 to play in the game, by linliting the fast break, scoring a R.P.I. tried to sit on a two point lead, 66-64 victory. 61-5 9, with a stall offense. Unoin To win the game in Clinton, fouled an RP.I. guard who gave the however, will take an especially !me Engineers a four point lead after effort by the Garnet,, because no making two foul shots. With 1:30 Union hoop team has beaten a team left, Dick Davis went in for a drive as good as Hamilton on the road irl and goal tending was claled against several years. The Dutchmen last R.P.I. R.P.I. scored at their end of triumphed at Hamilton in 1961. the court and Howie 'DeLuca Height Hurts ~72 Battle Siena Here The Union freshmen suffered an agonizing 67-65 defeat at the hands of R.P.I. Saturday night. The respciilded with a bomb from the outsitl.e to make the score 65-63. With 34 seconds remaining and the Engineers with a three point lead, 66-63, Jim Tedisco put irl a lay up to cut the lead •to one. Rand_y Brown, an Engineer Swim Reaches .500 at Trinity In a relatively easy meet Friday, the Garnet mermen overcame Trinity, 53-42. The meet, which was Union's next to last in dual competition, raised their record to an even 4-4 record. With number one breastroker, John Horwath, out with a tom muscle, the first relay was not in top Horwath. Newton, usually a distance freestyler, later swam the 200 yard backstroke for another second. Divers Mike Rone and Harvey Roichrnond again swept their event. Mat EndsWithTwoRomps Defend ICAC Crown Fri. form. The replacements weren.t able to cope with their Trinity counterparts, and because of this, the Garnet had to part with seven points. The 1000 yard freestyle was scratched by mutual agreement of both coaches, so Burt Y ankiver was moved to the next event, the 200 yard freestyle, along with co-captain Steve Wedin. They combirled to sweep the race, with Y ankiver finishing in 1:58 and Werlin in 2:00.9. For the first time all season, both 50 yard freestylers were under 24.0 seconds. Co-captain Kevin Hoben churned in a fme 23.3 for the win, and Dave Seward took the third in 23.9 seconds. With new strength in- the irldividual medley, Jim Newton splashed in for a second place, inches ahead of his teammate, Mike As the momentum picked up, the Garnet hmdily won the next three events, clinching the victory. Werlin won his 200 yard butterfly event with his second best time of the season, 2:11.8, and Bob Szatrowski completed the sweep. Hoben raced to a winning 51.2 1 DO yard freestyle time, his best of the winter. The win was secured as Mike Gow swept the 200 yard backstroke with Newton. BY STU MOSS Union's varsity wrestling team closed out its regular season by reeling off four straight victories including back-to-back wins this past weekend. The matmen beat Clarkson 24-9 Friday and then bested St. Lawrenc;e 22-8 Saturday, t(.l fmish with an 8-2 record. The squad goes after the lCAC Championship this Friday at Hobart. The Clarkson match was marked by a big win by Naysim Sinlon and Dick Rosener's return to action. Ron Ruhl started things off by taking a decision in the 123 lb. class. Frank D'Antuono, who has looked extremely sharp in his last few matches, pinned his 130 lb. opponent at 4:27. In between two draws by Larry Stevens and Bart Gale at 137 and 152 respectively, Jeff Knetzer won by decision at 145. Rosener made his first appearance sin<;e he was injured just before the Colgate match and picked up a decision in the 160 lb. class. In the closest contest of the afternoon, Simon beat Al DeRensis, last year's JAY BILLIARD LOUNGE 167 JAY ST. SPECIAL RATEi6 FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS Bring Your Dates Free Parking In Rear ICAC 177 lb. champion, on riding tinle. After Dell Crandall won a decision at 177, Skip Lynch wrestling for the first time this season, was pinned in the heavyweight division. Also Crush Larries The Garnet's domination was much the same against St. Lawrence. This time it was Bill Munno winning by decision at 123. D'Antuono won again by taking a decision. In an extremely exciting contest, Stevens almost had his man pinned three seperate times and then was almost pinned himself in the last thirty seconds, before picking u.p the decision. After Knetzer and Gale both won decisions, Rosener lost one on riding time. Simon won by forfeit and Crandall followed with a draw. Pete Kenyon replaced Lynch and lost to the Larries' heavyweight. In the ICAC, the Dutchmen will be going for their third straight championship. Ruhl at 117, Munno at 123, D'Antuono at 130, Knetzer at 145 and Simon at 167 will all be defending their individual titles won last year. The PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP 262 Saratoga Road MAYFAIR SHOPPING CENTER At the Sign of the Red Noon Pipe TUES. thru SAT •. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. alto THURS. and FRI.: 7 Jo 9 PM SCOTIA. N. Y. Phone 399~ 1630 THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PlANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeots from all the world. 406 STATE ST. 'For three Generations.' rhose Who Know •. Have been .. ecommending - over Although the winnirlg margin was only 11 points, the fmal relay was handed to Trinity, as Coach Robert Benson put in an unofficial team that fmished at least half a length ahead of the Bantams. Acme B~rber Shop SOCJ Union Street Experienced Barbers Nearest to Union College Students HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER 1111 3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family,. 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY Don't letT -bars throw you. Riding a T-bar is pretty easy, if yo'U'II just remember one thing: aT-bar isn't a seat. It dl)esn't carry you up- hill. It pulls you up. Keep that in mind, and you're ready to ride. Just move into the ski tracks and put the tai Is of your skis against the backstop. Then, with your poles in your outside hand, turn your head and upper body to the inside toward your riding partner. When the bar is put behind you, gently hold the vertical staff of the T with your inside hand. Turn to the front and keep your skis in·thetracks as you move uphill. Keep relaxed (yet erect) wiih your ankles and knees flexed slightly forward. Remember. Don't sit down on tile bar. When you reach the summit, jt:Jst push the bar aside and let your skis carry you away from it. It's a cinch. And it sure beats climbing! \Schaefer Ski Tips by Roxy\ will appear in the sports section of this newspaper every week. Be sure to watch for it. And be sure to listen to \Ski :Reports by Roxy\- with Roxy Rothafel, the voice of skiing. They're the most reliable radio reports on skiing conditions in the East. And you can hear them almos;~·everywhere in ski eountry. Tear out the schedule belo'W and take it along whenever you take off to go skiing~ \SKI REPORTS BY ROXY\ RADIO SCHEDULE CITY STATION DAYS TIMES Philadelphia WCAU Mon. thru. :'Sat. 7:00-7:30AM Pa. Th., Fri., Sat. 6:30-7:00AM !\lew York WNEW Mon. thrtJ Sat, 6:45PM N.Y. Mon. thru Sat. 9:45PM Wed. thru Sat, 7:45AM Providence WPRO R.I. Wed. thru Fri. 8:15AM, 12:15PM, ·6:45PM· Saturday 8:15AM,l0:15AM, 12:15PM Boston WEE I Tu., Wed,, Sat. 6:55AM, 6:30PM Mass. Th., & Fri. 6:55AM,,6:30PM, ll:lOPM Worcester WSRS Mon. thru Sat. B:00-9:00AM Mass. (FM) Mon. thru Fri •. 5:00-G:OOPM Springfield WSPR Mon. thru Sat; 7:35AM, !2:10PM Mass. 6:10PM.ll:lOPM Portsmouth WHEB Mon, thru Sat; 7:30-B:OOAM N.H. Mon. thru Sat. !i:00-5:30PM Manchester WGIR Mon. thru Sat, 7:30-B:OOAM N.H. Mon. thru Sat. !i:00-5:30PM . Claremont WTSV Mon. thru Sat. 7:00-9:00AM N.H. Mon. thru Sat. !i:00-6:00PM Hanover WTSL Mon. thru Sat. 7:00-9:00AM N.H. Mon. thru Sat, !i:00-6:00PM Schenectady WGY fl.Y. Mon. thru Sat. 6:55-7:00AM Syracuse WFBL Mon. thru S;at. 7:25-7:30AM N.Y. Fri. 3:25•8:25PM Sat. !J:25AM, 10:25AM, 11:25AM Schaefer Breweries, New York And Albany,. ff .. Y, 1 Baltimore, Md. 0 i ~I ' I i. t I VOL 98. Rt1 F Thirty from 43 Term i Professor accomr applicatic the resp enthusias· Pfefen who wiJI is orient C 0 m pr requiremf general a 2.5 or bet Those Harry Cohen, P( Stephen Ivan Teth Scott Richard House, Starbuck, Stephen Martin R Berkowit2 Wall, Jay Victor Le T The st three gro originally group wi other Am One gn Revie' rf E If you 1 miss Han · at Nott ti \l next. If you forget it endl~ssly, senseless!) expositiot The p: Modem l\ dislogue, commend the scene~ the persot become y play is es there is r just plain The pi humor wl as it i Mounteba than they Some of nuances f~ may not 1 actors as t TheM· performan Dean He Davies, alt to that MountebaJ Firebugs.\ c~ ( All lh new com 6:00 p.n will be-· t will be Council Advisers. Votes Student followin~ released ~ 42 living Stude1 vote in Office M~

1969 only two > R.F.L ' game ended up- . ()! f! i . 1.1 ''A Causa Persa Parole • Assai\ Founded at Union College 1877 VOL 98, NO. 32 ~~~~--------~~--------------------------~------~------------------~--------- ACC Passes Council Phys. Ed. Proposa.l Roberts Names 30 For French Junket SCHENiECif ADY, N.Y., FEBRUARY 28, 1969 PRICE TWENTY CENTS By STEVE LEVY Thirty students have been dtoosen from 43 applicants to spend next Fall Term in France. Accmding to Professor Alan Roberts who will accompany the group, rigid application :teq11inements were met and the response to the program was enthusiastic. Preference was given to students who will be juniors since the program is oriented to fullfill the Junior Cemprehensive Education requirement. He added that the general average of those chosen was 2.5 or better. • Those chosen are: Harry Miller, Stanley Shapiro, Alan Cohen, Peter Feldstein, Allen Gartner, Stephen Kaufman, Robert Reitman, Ivan Tether, Neil Green, David Posner, Scott Sanders, Charles Lincoln, Richard Eng, John Howell, Robert House, Barry Fitzgerald, Edward Starbuck, Eric Oleson, Eric Millman, Stephen Kornfeld, Donald Kessler, Martin Robins, Steven Katz, Ronald Berkowitz, Matthew Sadosky, Steven WaJ.l, Jay Blitzman, Paul Wirth, and Victor Lerish. Three Groups Fonned The students will be divided into three groups of ten instead of the originally planned two groups. Each • group will be accompanied by five other American students, mainly girls. One group will be located in Review: HCaretaker\ By PAUL ANDREWS Besan-Con, a second in Reiins, bat the third center has not yet been chosen. The program is heing ananged with the Experiment in International Living Group. Professor Roberts will accompany one of the three groups but will be responsible for evaluating all .of the Union students' work. Each student will take a French language course, an area studies course, and an independent study project. A simi! ar pro gram will be conducted tllis spring in Vienna, Austria under the c'irection of Professor Frederick Kh111m and applications are now av,tilable for a program to Bogota, Columbia next winter, directed by Mrs. Maria Astiz. ~~Name'' Showmen Goal of S.tudent Subscription Drive A group of Union students, Independan t Basketcase Productions, are attempting to bring known entertainment to the Union campus on a regular basis. They hope to organize a number of concerts for next term, and for the following years. \All profits on one concert will go into the next concert,\ one of the members explained. \We hope to make enough money to be able to lose money on important concerts with limited appeal, such as a progressive jazz musicians.\ The member emphasized, however, most of the concerts will be for a diversified audience. The All-CoHege Ccmncil has changed from \!his prop?sal is to be adopted an amended version of the made retroactive to mcl~de all student Council ~s proposal on students who ha~~ en!~re~ Umon fr~f!l maintenance; and has also ruled that Sept., 1965, on., to. T~1s proposal ~~ freshman with at least a 2.0 to :be made effective Immed1a~ely, cumulative index may have cars in the Malloy refused to vote affinnatlvely. spving tenn. Daniels called for a stronger A I though the fa,culty will stipulation in the area Gf \carryover ultimately decide the maintenance skills.\ issue, the ACC endorsed by a 7-2 vote the report which was approve.d by both the Student Council and the Committee for a Student Voice. Malloy, Daniels Against Voting against the proposal were Dean Edward J. Malloy and Prof. William J. Daniels, both of whom ex. pressed dissatisfaction with the present physical education system. Although part of the report was Bhatnagar To Head Course A:bout India Beginning i:n April Union will offer, on a one-time basis, an evening course on India, \Indian Society: Traditional and Developing,\ to be held Wednesdays, from 7-10 p.m., beginning April2. The course instructor will be Dr. Savitri Rani Bhatnagar, a native of In.dia who has studied and taught at many American universities. The course will cover basic principles and concepts in Indian society, such as nationalism, leadership, caste structure, religious beliefs and philosophy, poverty, illness and homelessness, and the future of the country. A minimum of 10 students will be required for the undergraduate course. Faculty To Decide The report will now go to the faculty which will decide next term whether to accept the Ketz proposal or the students', or to draft one .of its own. With one abstention--Raymond Pike's--the ACC unanimously passed the freshman automobile proposal. The question as to availability of parking space was raised as a possible objection, but Neal J. Gordon noted' in defence that space was available in lots north of West College and behind Richmond House. In Malloy's Hands Dean Malloy, who will fmally rule on the car proposal, stated he had no \philosophic objections\ to qualified freshman having cars. He said he would make an official announcement in time for the Class of 1972 to make use of the new policy. All existing rules regarding motor vehicles will extend to freshmen who have cars on campus. Review: Virgin Prexy By LANCE F ALDUCCIWITZ Just skis . J If you're a fan of the absurd, don't miss Harold Pinter's \The Caretaker\ at Nott Memorial this weekend and next. To support the concerts, the group must ask the student b~dy to help. The first concert, featuring Patrick Sky, will cost $600. Dean Molloy and the Tax Committee cannot afford this amount, the students have been told. Mrs. Bhatnagar is a 1943 graduate of Gordon Presby.terian College, Rawalpindi, West Pakistan. She obtained a doctorate in sociology at the University of Agra in 1959. For the 1963-64 academic year, she was a Ford Foundation fellow at the School of Public Health at the University of California at Berkeley. The movie you would make if you had the talent is \The Virgin President.\ The movie being shown in SS 016 through Sunday, 7 & 9 p.m., successfully mixes broad farce and political satire, only rarely slipping into self-indulgence. the to and bar a .. _ the the ski __ If you're not a fan of the absurd, forget it. The play will drag on endl~ssly, and for the most part senselessly, in a series of character expositions without plan or purpose. The play is at best a parody of Modern Man, his silly habits and silly dislogue, and the Mountebanks do a commendable job overall. But most of the scenes are drawn out, and some of the personality bouts and monologues become yawn-inducing. Although the play is essentially an absurd comedy, there is not as much comic relief as just plain relief when the scenes end. The play is saturated with subtle humor which isn't as hard to pick up as it is. to convey, and the Mountebanks may have taken on more than they can handle in this respect. Some of the understatement and nuances fail to come off, although this may not be as much the fault of the actors as the playwright. The Mountebanks do a creditable performance of the difficult play. Dean Hoffman is outstanding as Davies, altho~gh the role is too similar to that of Biederman in the Mountebanks recent production, \Tile Firebugs.\ Again Hoffman plays an Continued on page 2 Constitution All living units will vote on the new constitution this Monday from 6:00 p.m. to midnight. The vote will be-· taken by secret ballot and will be conducted by Student Council members and Resident Advisers. Votes will be counted at the Studert t Activities Office the following day and results will be released ori.ly after the ballots of all . 4 2 living units have been received. Students living off campus may vote in the Student Activities Office Mol:).4aY. In this event. Independant Basketcase Productions is asking the student body to raise the money. To do this, all interested students will buy a $1 subscription, which, in the event enough money is raised, can be traded in for a ticket for the first concert. If the student body fails to raise the money, everyone's money will be returned. VIRGIN PRESIDENT: World Proemiere of this political satire co11tinues Saturday evening in SS 016. (see •eview this page) She is a member of the American Soc iol6gical Association, the Population Association of America, the Society for the Scientific Study of 'Religion, the Society for Asian Studies, and the Sociological Association of India. Hosts For Co-ed Week C1wsen The Experiment in Co-Educational Living held a meeting Wednesday evening, to discuss plans for Co-Ed Week; and to appoint committee heads. They are: Housing··Steve Brooks and Lou Liebhaber Food--Skip Mowry Calander of Events--Ivan Tether, John Blank, Duncan Guild, Jay Blitzman and Mark Coven Publicity--Ray Krise, Jr., Uoyd Wolkenfeld and Phil Galdston Secretary--Steve Kornfeld Treasurer--John Throumoulous Whom to Contact These are the people who should be contacted if students have any help to offer in these areas. Mark Merson and Don Kessler, co·chairmen of the Experiment noted that the Housing committee and the Treasurer are of greatest importance. \We're going to need places to put these girls,\ they said, \and we also need funds to run the Week.\ Merson and Ke~sler expressed optimism that frnancial aid from the College may be in the offing. Further highlights of the meeting were the announcement of an enthusiastic response from Vassar, with the same girl who coordinated the Vassar contingent to Dartmouth's Co-Ed Week asking to perform the sam~e task for Union; a mulling over of the JlDSsibility of raising funds for the Week by selling Co-Ed Booster Buttons,. embossed with a suitable letter arrd(or emblem; and a stressing of tihe point, by Kessler and Merson, Ghanian Emil Adzima To 'Offer Bl·ack View On African Situation Mr. Emil Adzima, Information Minister for the Consulate of Ghana, will present the Black African view of the llniernational Relations Clubs third conAict series - Africa's Destiny · B1ac1 ~nd/or white. The talk will take place Monday, March 3 in SS 016 at 7:30J>M. Las:t Tuesday Mr. Guy Van Eeden of the South African consulate presenied the White view. The Conflict series is the third of the club's series. India-Pakistan and Arall·Israeli were presented earlier in the year. In the Spring Term the club plarus to present two more conflict issues. The first will focus on the differing Polish and Yugoslav views of .the 'S.oviet Unions relationship with the ·East European states. The second will ,cCilmpare Nigeria and seccessionist Biafra_ 1 that the Co-bd applicatwn forms--available in Student Activities--must be completely distributed. Grab a Bag Any one going anywhere this weekend is urged to grab a handfull of applications and distribute them at every women's scheol he passes with them. Speaking for the Experiment, publicity chairman Krise said, \I think the college has been passing through various attitudes toward Co-Education, this past year. It began with guys gazing wistfully at the picture of the lovely blonde on the first Concordy of the year, and thinking that it'd never happen here, but sort of wishing it would ' Trustees Sleep Now the Experiment is moving, and I think people realize we're gonna be in the very same league as Yale and St. Rose and have our own Co-Ed Week. I only hope they fully realize it in time, because we need everybody's support. Not only do we need it, but Union College needs it. Because Union College needs co-education.\ All campus groups are invited to participate in the proposed Co-ed week, April 14, with events and/or workshops for the girls to take part in. Please contact Ivan Tether at ADPhi fo.r publicity • and to coordinate scheduling. The movie concerns itself with the . premise that at some future date, the President of the United States will be childishlessly innocent, and dependant upon his unscroupulous advisors. He embroils the country in a grave crisis with China, because he was too embarrassed to consumate his marriage with the daughter of the Chinese Premier. Don't let the plot keep you away from the movie. The actors, headed by Severn Darden, improvise the entire dialogue. TI1eir comments are usually witty and to the point, and the film ~as a quick, joyous rhythm that rarely flags. The cast is professional and they do havP something to say. The director, Graeme Ferguson, who collaborated with Mr. Darden on the story, lets the actors have their head. He uses his camera to complement the action, and never intrudes to show his virtuosity. The picture, amde on a modes1 budget, doesn't try to \offend everyone (i.e. no one)\ it aims its satirical darts at definite targets, and refuses to obscure their meanings. It is a film that should be seen. Foundation Grant The Ford Foundation ahs allocated $41 ,000 to cover the administrative costs of Project HOPE, according to R. Gordon Bingham, director of student aid. The remaining deficit of $37,000 will be absorbed by the three colleges participating in the HOPE consortium-- Union; Skidmore, and R.P.L The aim of HOPE is to \inc tease rapidly the enrollment of 'disadvantaged' black and white students .. in the three institutions. Union will get 25 students, R.P.I. and Skidmore, 20.

PA.GE 2 . . ~ .. College. Offers Bla,ck His wry As Teachersln-ServiCeCOu,rse Pubhshed Tue•day and rr.1day dur- lnll th• schoo·l year by the Student Body of l.lni:onColl \It\· Schenectady. N. Y, N at.1onal AdvefiHHng R epre- - aentatJ.v~: National ECucat10nal Advernung Service, Inc .. Coli•&\ ,Publuhers Representatl\'\· 360 ·Lexington Avenue. N.Y. C.. Editorial Off1et·, o··td Gym, Umon Colle.ge. Pubhcati011·Clfflce, WhJ'e- hursl Prlntlnii & B1nd:-1ng Co .. lnc·. 41·6-418 Filth Ave .. 'rl\'oy. 235-o450. Entered 1n the· Sc he:>1ectady Post Of·f•c• as Second Cl a• s Ma1l Matter. Subscnpt1on 201 a co'Py; $6 a year dehvered anywhere 1 n the United States. SENIOR BOARD D. Peter Dfotmen 000000 ...... 00 ........... 0000 ................... E<iitflr-in \Chief . Richard Lewis .................................................. Businsss Manager William Ouzer .................... oo .............................. Mana:_ging Editor Larry Friedman ...................................................... .:1'-lews Editor Henry Fein .................................. ~ .......................... Sports Editor Paul An:drews .................................................... Facsi.mile Editor Alan Klein .................................................... Con tri btating Editor Final Squeeze The Final Exam Sehedule, which appears thrice a year with pitilt·ss regularity, can occasionally contribute more toward failun.' or nt'ar failure in a course than laziness or plain stupidity. Good students who may he capable of' fair work in all course~ arc frequently confmn tc d by exams bunched so do~dy bogetht~r that adequate stt~dy for each is imposHihle. The critt~rion for the final grad~ in such an instanct~ is no longer how well a student ma,. study, but how fasL ' · A student's abilit_y to slay up all night and still be coh~n~nt the ne:\t day is a test of endurance, not knowled.gt~. ProFess.ors at Union expend considocrable effort constructing r·xams that will reflect comprl('hension of course content. but their work is negated wll.en grueling scheq.qles ·rorc.(; !'uddess students either to sa-<:rifice a less favored course, of build up enough tension to attempt preparation in everything. Calm and dfectivt~ study can best be donr when exams are evenly distributt•d over the entire period. This, of course, would be an impossibility for everyone, usirig the prt'smt mt'lhod: but rescheduling the ex.ams ~r individuals with particularly imbalanced programs would be a feasible way of rt>ducing their disadvantage. If. for c:xample, two finals fall on tlw same day, one may be movr-d to an earlier dat•~ with little inconvenience and some depar.E:rnental trust in the s tud<~n t. An t'X tension of such an honor system W\ould be the ::->cht·duling of nams by the student himself to effect the bt·st possible study plan (this system is presently in use in sn <'ral <: ourst's in tlw Departmcn t of Psycholt)tgy ). Such an arrangement would make an honor code functional. It would give the student a reward of study time in return for k<'eping test questions to himself. while still providing him with a symbol of enhanced maturity and freed om. A sy:,;tern of this sort would be long in perfecting, but could t•vmtually rstablish academic achiewemcnt, not simply the good grade, as the major objective of students at Union. . Signs oj the Time! A. course on '\if:he Negro in American History, Past and Present\ offered f<Or iN-service credit to Schen.ec taay public school teachers at UHion College, has been so successful that it is now being offered for the third time. A...nnounced as a pilot project a year ago, and :~pen then only to teachers in th.e Schenectady system, the course now includes teachers from su\)urban districts as well as Schenectac:ily. !From the course at Union has sp ~ung Negro history courses in both. Schenectadr high ·schools, as well as stepped up emphasis on Negro history at the junior higl1 and eleme!lt!lry levels as well. The course has attracted t·e ackers from kindergarten t h r o u g h h igh. s c h o o 1 , administrators, ant<! 1ibrarians. Two Union faclLTty members teach the course,. Ur. David R. Potts, assistant professor of history, and :wlalcolm R. Willison, lecturer in sociology. The Division ofinter-Cultural Relations of the ,f'..!ew York State Edacation Department has previded a grant br the course, witll. the school district picking up the remainder of the cost. Union provides the meeting room, and booksio-re and other services. rhe course---t!J.e orily one like it in this part of the state---explores tlte ~hanging role of Negroes in An~erican society. It also includes discussion of the African heritage, tlte legacy of slavery, forms ofsegregation and discrimination, the nature of piejudice and. intergroup ( ( hostility, ~md the shifting relationship ·6f Negroes to other groups in America. · 1t also ex.amines appropriate methods of transferring knowledge le~rned in the course to various gra <ie levels. WaIte r Le C 1 air, assistant principal at Central Park Junior High School in Schenectady and a member of the first class last winter, tenn()d the course \a tremendous stimulus to many of us who wer() just waiting for something Wee this to happen.\ Under LeClair's leadership--\ne was a classroom teacher when he took the IEiEE At Tuesaay 's meeting our guest speaker will be Lawrence J. Matteson. He has chosen to spea:k on the Lunar. . Orbiter Program. The Orbiter was designed and built for photographically mapping the surface of the moon, so as to select event1.1al landing sites . for the Appolo progrram. We will gather in room EE-22 at 8 PM for this lecture. ']Jure will be refreshments following the talk. I can not encourage you enough to attend what will be a very interesting presentation. ) ) Many ~ignificanl events that occur on the UJnion College campus do not grace the news pages of Conc0E'diensis. Two such Pvents happened (or didn't happen in o-ne case) this Drug Committee Report? week that W(' fC('I ean not go unnoticed. as we view them r···················· as indicative of our Lime. SENI()RS I \A 6RE·r BOOK\* Monday evening. one student council r.:!presentative I II rettut•sted that the SC Social Committee look into the • i is now ill paperback course---Central Pit:rk has had a series of activities prompted by the course. Last spri11g, he reported, there was an asscn1bly for the eighth and ninth grades. at the school. Guest ~peakers were James Lockhart .<Jf the Div·ision of In ter-CuJtu,ral Relations Ralph Boyd of the NAACP, and ·the Rev. Allan lltown, a 'local clergyman. Concordiensis Promo;f:io~ns Larry Friedma11, a freshman from Ossining, N.. ¥. has been n am e d N e ws E d.i t·o r of C oncordiensis, i£ditm-in-Chief D. Peter Drottnan announced yesterday. Frie dinan replaces Allen Gartne1r who has temporarily left the staff due to personal and academic reasons. Friedman is the first freshman to be appointed to the Senior Board of Comordiensis in more than five years. In further announcements, Editor Drotm.an appointed present Assishnt Business Manager Carl Gdldsand to the Associate Business Manager position and Sub-scription Manager Jeff Birn t<J Goldsand ~s previous post. In the .past three months, Birn more than doubled Concordy subscriptions. Also, Jon Schosheim ,replaces Jerry Levine as Local Advertising Manager. ,o u,nfte, .an s {Continued frqrn page·l) an excitable, easily dominated little squirt wh.ojumps around a lot; and in this way his character is .a r.e run of Biede:tman. Hoffman's 1 I>erformance also s1:1.ffers somewhat in that his speech is strictly Americanese , 1 when the part was obviously written fm .a Cockney accent. But H0ffman is a Moantebanks veteFan and shows it in his mastery 0ver ~the role. Jeff DeMunn handles his part with equal facility as Mick, a 11 burly teat.her-jacMet type who likes to !bug Davies. Newcomev B1uce Shaclcfet0n plays Aston, Mick's brotl1er andi owner of the ~ apartment Wh.erein the action takes place. ShackJeton, who hardly looks like himself sans beard, gla.sses arufi, a lot of his hair, plays his part well, al thoug;h adm.ittedly he is limi,ted in what he can do with Af:ton' s l0botomized, slow-thinlting personality. II· Henry Well took on the rather dHficult task of directing ~) the .play, since H literally has no direction. BlltiHhe effect of the play is absurd then Weil at least succeeded in that area. Otherwise ;critical comment is impossible withoat first discovering the director's interpretationofthe play. 'The Caretaker\ is well clone for its mode. :But ·to waste good 11 acting on the a.bsurd is just that. SEI\IIORS l.f you \IV ant to be in the ;, yearbook be sure to hand your blu rl:ls in to the '. studemt activities (where forms are avaii<Jble) by the l) 'II v •II II<• ., ·r i J IJ Q 2. I a. 3. ~ s dep< the mak ll Com t ( < ( < Dep: Patri of t Polit Regi CJ P: Tht Unior systerr the 3· ackno1 more some changi in the, Onc chang coursel into a Uni loose called other Rose, Russel problf'm of rf'schcduling conflicting events (e.g. last ! The represeh1toative from 1 werkend'~ basketball gamt> and Moving Finger prt>sentation ~ Victor-O'Neill Studios will I Ill ·ott Thf the Cc the po faciliti and fa c 0 u cross- permit the po one sc at ana its car: enrollr or thi~ weekend's film premiere and Yiountebank's ::':. ,. production). Yes, d(~ar r1~adr.rs, it has finally .happened. For he here .for the last time the first time in 174 years somebody has cot)[]plained that this Monday. there aw too many..(hings to do at Union CoU~ge. . On Tuesday, Union had no convocati()n. This, in itself,. 1 t0·3 1 does not particularly distinguish last Ttiesd~y from any i . Hale Hous~ Lounge i other non-convocation Tuesday; but th.e cotivocation we ...... - .............. . didn't h. ave. three days ago was the traditiottal. Founder's 111•• .. •••••••••••••••1 Day marathon. Veterans of co~vocation requ ire~ent d_ays j · remember those. Maybe we didn't have one this year by . 1 E as t West 1 reason of anticipated poor attendance. . . · I European A.dventure I Or, perhaps, has Union run out of Worthies?. I . . . I Down to Louis', &Jt us go, Let the lager freely flow. A unique place to dine with old Europe~ .Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAU:RANT Since 1 895 - Corner 266 State and Erie -Blvd •. NDVI IN OUR 74th YE~R for reservations phone FR 4-8917 .i n o w o r g a n 1 z 1 n g. f I Campus rep:~esentative I • wanted. I • • ·;. · Contaci Larrie I • • ..!. Dean, 26.2ll Troy I I . I I Road, Schenectady, I tr e IN'ew York 12309.1 .. . .· . . · -~' Pllone 785-7 308. . 8 • .. \ ···~-~, ............... . For studmt, layman and sci- entist alike, the intensely human, brilliantly illuminat- ing, asto11lshingly candid story behi11d the remarkable discovery Clf the' structure of DNA. Rarely has a scientist told such a fascinating be- hind;the-scenes story about how scientist:; really work. c.,. ~ ON SALr NOW•r 'euRCAMPUS BOOKSTORE ARMY vs NAVY Be~uret~watc~1~isexciting ~ame-:-telev!sedfiveand in color.And wh1le you re en]oymg the actron, enJOY bnght; rewarding Schaefer -the one beertohave when you're having more than one. LIVE & IN C()LOR ·2:00PM· WTEN·-Tv CH 10 < But the C. been behinc such transrr campu Intern: registr in geo the cc than sc Pa1 Con so t0o we the sci to and a em partict other Union

1969 around a al~o rTHE ACADEMIC CALENDA.R that his ,, obviously accent. untebanks it in his es his part Mick, a 11 who Aston, of the ~ he action ton, who sans lot of his art well, he is n do with , 1 on the directing il has no of the at least area. is QUESTIONNAIRE 1. Do yC'>u find the 3-3-3 calendar inconvenient enough to wan ant the dislocation necessary to change it? Yes No 2. If your answer to the above is yes, then which of the aHernatives do you prefer? 4-1-4 4-4 5-5 3. What about the calendar you prefer seems to be its major advantage over the present one? Feel free to expand your reply to whatever leNgth you tWnk necessary; the committee will be happy to hear your views. COMMITTEE Every year carne late May Uni·on students begin to complain about the college calendar. By that time many of their friends at other schools have finished' their academic yea:r and are either taking it easy or applying for summer j0bs. But Union students are just beginning to prepare for finals, and pressing end-of-the-therm assi;gnmen ts predu de any possibil·ity of jo'b hunting. By the time the term ends wen into the second week of June most of the good jobs in the student's home town are ·taken. Th.e scarcity of employment coupled with the discomfort of studyiag for finals while others are reveling in the sun is responsible. FOUNfDED At UNION COlLEGE IN 19E8 for most of the year-end grumbles about Union's late dismissgl_ Last year the gmmbles gath.ered enough volume to reach the collective ears of the Administration, and a Calendar Committee was appointed to study the possibility of changing Union's 3-3-3 system. The committee includes Professors Patrick Kilburn, Arnold Seiken, Robert Sha:det, and Registrar Calvin Schmidt, and is chaired by Prof. Win Schwarz. The committee will make its report to the President March 5. The committee has already sounded out faculty members for their views; in order to provide the committee with a cross-section of student opinion . FACSIMILE is devoting this iss1:1e to the calendar question. This issue Hsts a comparison of the 3-3-3, our present calendar, with the 4-'1-4 (that of Skidmore and Williams) and the 4-4 (Harvard) systems. The 5-5, or standard semester system, was left mtt of the comparison beca1:1se little enthusiasm has been found for it, and because the 4-4 system is comparable in most respects to the 5-5. So that the committee will be able to incorporate student opmwn rn to their report, students are urged to fill out the brief questionnaire fo1:1nd on this page by ne~t Monday. A box has been posted in the library to deposi,t the questionnaire, along wjth any additional comments the student might have. We are all reluctant toward change, and we have found upon broaching the subject with s t udeFI ts that tH.ey initially defend the present calendar, but that their defense slackens upon consideration of all the factors i'r:tvolved. Obviously, none of the college calendars in use today is the perfect one, or all colleges would have adopted it. We urge you to look over carefully the co£1ilparison of calendars on Page 4, and to fill out and turn in the questionnaire, which is gauged to requiJe a minimum of effort in response. It's either a good response on the questionnaire or no more grumbles come June. ut first Students are urged to f:tll out the above questionnaire and deposit it in a box posted in the library by next Monday, due to the fact that the Committee toRe-examine the Calendar must make its report to the President on next Wednesday. The ll Committee is le-d by Prof. Winfred Schwarz C'>f the Physics well done good 11 that. in the hand the (where by the '. li 'II t And 10 f. v < 'I' ( < ( Department. Other members of the committee include Prof. Patrick Kilbum of the English Department, Prof. Arn!Jld Seiken of the Mathematics Department, Prof. Robert Sharlet of the Political Science Department, and Calvin Schmidt, College Registrar. ·FREE WITH CONCORDIENSIS Changing The Trimester Calendar: Problems; ConsideratioT!_;S Explored The Class of 1969 came to Union under the semester system, or 5-5 calendar. While the 3-3-3 calendar is generally acknowledged to have proven more satisfactory than the 5-5, some of the difficulties in changing calendars can be seen in the case of Union's seniors. One major difficulty in changing calendars is that courses must be redefined to fit into a different system. Course offerings and requirements for the major would have to he reconsidered. Particularly in Union's case courses would have to be rearranged to fit into the 4-1-4 or 4-4 system, while the continuation of the Comp Ed program would come into serious question. No matter how much the Comp Ed program has proven unsatisfactory, it is the result of hundreds of hours of work, and some still think it can be salvage.d. Another difficulty with changing from the present system is that student transcripts would have to be recomputerized, a long and difficult process without which wotdd result tremendous confusion for transferring students or seniors applying to graduate schools. As far as the possibility of changing the claendar within the 3-3-3 system goes, the only workable alternative to the late June dismissal would be ending the first term near Thanksgiving, and breaking for Christmas vacation around two weeks into the second term. However, this would also necessitate beginning the first term on or the day after Labor Day, an awkward situation to say the least. Consortium Outlook Poor; Calendar Change May Help The other two calendars would permit earlier dismissal of students, but the 4-4 schedule results in a \lame duck\ period over Christmas vacation where students would be plagued with assignments due after vacation, and the 4-1-4 also presents the problem of what to do with the five-week miniterm. The 4-4 also creates hardships on Center II majors in general and Pre-meds and engineers in particular. With only 32 courses available over the four years, Center II majors would have few openings for electives. Union College belongs to a loose association of colleges called the Consortium. The other members are R.P.L, St. Rose, Siena, Skidmore, and Russell Sage. The theory behind creating the Consortium was to provide the possibility of sharing college facilities for various programs and faculty members for various courses. Ideally, cross-registration would be permitted between schools, with the possibility of a student from one school enrolling for a term at another school and living on its campus during his period of enrollment. But as of right now little of the Consortium's potential has been realized. The philosophy behind the plan is inherent in such projects as WRUC's transmitting to the Skidmore campus, the Union-Skidmore International Relations Club and registration at R.P.l. for courses in geology, but other than these the colleges share little other than social lives. Part of the reason the Consortium hasn't worked out t0o well is the distance between the sclwcois. Daily transportation to and from Skidmore would be a costly and tiring venture, particularly if the student had other courses the same day at Union. But another factor working against the Consortium is Union's 3-3-3 schedule. Most of the other schools in the project are either on the semester or 4-1-4 system, making it pretty much ·impossible for a Union student to take a course for credit at another school, and vice versa. The Vassar exchange program now in operation at Williams, Trinity and Colgate was precluded at Union due to our trimester system. All three of those colleges are on the 4-1-4 system. The 4-1-4 calendar consists of a 12-week term ending before Christmas in which the student takes four courses, followed by a five or six-week term after the Christmas recess in which the student does intensive work on one course, then followed by another 12-week term of four courses. As in the 3-3-3 system, the student takes .a total of 36 courses over the four years. Thus the 4-1-4 calendar holds many of the advantages of th.e 3-3-3 schedule, first term ending before Christmas, a total of 36 courses offered, approximately the san1e vacation time. Plus there is the added advantage of a late May or early June dismissal. Two other obvious advantages are included in the 4-14 schedule. The 12-week term permits greater learning absorption time per course while also allowing more time fo1· research papers. And students would be able to participate in exchange programs with other colleges on the 4-l-4 calendar, which seems to be the trend of many colleges comparable to Union today. The 4-1-4 cal en dar results in fewer dislocations from the 3-3-3, and the minimester presents the only serious problem. The short duration of the term prohibits offering any lab courses. Ideally, it could be It is thought by some that the argued that the miniterm is Consortium may be the college perfectly situated for an of the future. With increased and intensiVe Comp. Ed. course or more rapid transportational independent study. But in facilities between the various Comp. Ed. classes would be campuses in the area: '·the . ·large, and most of the work Consortium could with full would fall on only a few of the cooperation between the faculty members. colleges become an effective and The idea of an independent beneficial program. Bllt the first study could be turned into a step toward realizing the practical joke. At Williams, for potential of the Consortium lies instance, we heard of a case in working out similar calendars. where one student spent the Continued on page 5 TIME (EllER JEWELERS authorized KEEPSAKE dealer . 428 SlATE STREET Being with each other, doing things together ... know- ing that your affection is growing into precious and enduring love. Happily, all these cherished moments will be forever symbolized by your diamond engagement ring. If the name, Keepsake, is in the ring and on the tag, you are assured of fine quality and lasting satisfaction. The engagement diamond is flawless, of superb color, and precise modern cut. Your Keepsake Jeweler will assist you in making your selection ... He's in the yellow pages under\Jewelers.\ Ringsfrom $100to $10,000. Illustrations enlarged to show detaii.®Trade-mark reg. A H. Pond Co., Inc., Est. 1892. T..T- !!,~ISTERED k ~~sa e® DIAMOND RINGS ,----------------------------~ 1 HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING 1 I Please send new 20-page bookleti \How To Plan Your Engage- 1 J ment and Wedding\ md new 12-page full color folder, both for 1 1 only 25c. Also, send special offer ofbeautifu144-page Bride's Book. 1 I 5·6 9 I I Name I I Address I I I I City I I . I I State rp 1 L KEEPSAKE DIAMOND RINGS, 80)( 90, SYRACUSE, N. Y. 13201 I ----------------------------~

3-3-3 I. EFFECT ON STUDENTS 1. Student takes 3 courses at a time. Greater concentration on a subject is possible. 2. In a 10 week term, absorpcion time for subject matter is sometimes a problem. 3. 10 weeks is thought to be a bit short for best use of research papers. 4. In science courses there is time for 9 to 10 labs. 5. Certain kinds of field work, e.g., in social science, is handicapped by the short term length. 6. Student illness is more disruptive for a 10 week term, but only 3 courses are involved. 7. A better grade of performance should be expected when only three courses are taken at a time. 4-1-4 4-4 Student takes 4 courses at a time, wi·th correspondingly less Student takes four courses, each meeting four times a week, concentration per course. Intense concentration during miniterrn. More absorptim1 time d1ning a long term, but minimal absorption time during the miniterm. Better for research papers. 11 to 12labs can be schedu:led. Better for field work. Student illness can be disastrous during the minitem, but only one course is involved. More scattering of effort than in 3-3. Most abs01.:ption tirne, but greater diversion of attention. Best for vesearch papers. 14 to !Slabs can be scheduled. Best for field work. Same loss as in 3-3. Sarn.e as in 4-1-4. J FEBiJRU, . ''I .A E.Nj •be cont petiedic By A First new albt reminisc· •sweat ~ str.uctu relative • \OvertUI with in time aug screams. •say tha; alone, bt T; yet, : •T's seco recorded group fc Records, ,his cont Blood S greatlyd album '\regen en Although used to 8. The curriculum of study during special programs such as terms abroad needs to be planned to be roughly equivalent to 3 courses. , I Planning of work abroad to be equivalent to 4 courses is a greater Blanning of work abroad equivalent to 4 courses is reported as being chore. The cost of living abroad is increased by some 30% for ·the difficult. The cost of living abroad during a term is approximately lJ I ,.direction are still musicians stuff. t That ~ BS & T i! the basic Blood S'w longer term. Not true if the minitenn is taken abroad. 50% greater than for the 3-3. II. EFFECT ON FACULTY 1. Provides considerable flexibility in manipulating faculty time, including the possibility of a term off (or a reduced load for a term) for writing or research. 2. The above mention flexibility in manipulating faculty time has an advantage in faculty recruiting. 3. Since a student takes only 36 courses during his four years, the planning of a major program to include the necessary concentration, the general educational requirements, the language, etc., becomes someV!hat more difficult. 4. There has been some comment that 3 major exams and associated grading periods is an excessive strain. IlL CALENDAR 1. Under present schedule, 1st terrn ends before Christmas. The report by the 1963 Allen Committee, which recomm.eacled against the 4-1-4 plan, concluded that very few faculty could be released during the miniterm. The whole student body is occupied during this term, taking, in many cases, special projects or special courses. The time of essentially all of the faculty is requirecl. In addition, since many courses seem to be unfitted for compre&;sion into a short term, many faculty wonld probably be forced into teaching courses for which they may feel themselves inadeq_u~tely prepared. On the other hand, it has been suggested that some courses cam be designed for large lecture groups during this term, reducing the number of faculty required. This may have the effect of puttLng; the burden of miniterm work regufarly on some faculty and rarely if at all on others. Same as for 3-3. Probably similar to 3-3. 1st term ends before Christmas. 2. College year ends rather late in June, handicapping students in Year ends at a reasonable time in early June, or even late May_ obtaining summer jobs. Earlier termination in June is possible by starting 2nd term before Christmas, but this means starting college year close to Labor Day. 3. Makes possible future year-around use of facilities with four equal Summer could be a 3rd full term. terms. IV. REGISTRAR l. Problem of avoiding conflicts in schedules least with a 3-course Greater conflict problem with 4-course load. load. 2. Creates maximum work for Registrar, Business Office, and Bookstore. Similarly all college personnel have to endure the problems associated with the beginning three terms a year. Committee on Standing of Students presumably meets 3 times a year. Could be accomplished with two formal registrations and term ending processes. Least flexibility of manipulating faculty time. Least advantage in faculty recruiting. The student takes 32 courses per four years. There is less room for in~luding the necessary work of a major, particularly in some of the sciences. Only two major exam periods per year. lst term has a lame-duck session after Christmas recess. Much the same as for 4-1-4. A sununer term equal to a regular semester probably would not be viewed with enthusiasm. Same as 4-1-4. Least burdensome. 3. Exams take place during a shorter period with fewer conflicts because of 3 courses per student. 4 courses per student mean longer exam periods and more exam Same as 4-1-4. conflicts. V. STUDENT EXCHANGE WITH COLLEGES IN THE CONSORTIUM l. Least suitable for exchange of full-time students with other Exchange of full-time students feasible. coll~e,es which are on the semester plan. 2. There should be no serious handicap for exchange of students for a single course with colleges within commuting distance. Overlapping of terms is not th.ought to be serious. No problem. ·, (,all the so wrote or miniterm ;). , Jntensive s of fish fou In many turns out -.;.;:xtension On the ot supervisim 1 , filon the p: make the academic could prm ' intensive : In spite changing calendar, 1 I tbe worth c 1 end to th the crux c o (<\.s it is, 1 sa tis factor' to the !at~ 3-3-3 calen ·rl ~ ~) I ,' - ...

J .. FEBiJRUARY 28, 1969 · \l Stand Alone\ .A Fine Effort E. Note: Alan Greenfield will • be contributing record reviews petiedically to FACSIMILE. By ALAN GREENFIELD First Hs;tening to AI Kooper's new album, \I Stand Alone,\ is reminiscent of the first Blood •sweat and Tears album. The structure of the two are re Ia tive 1 ly the same, the • \Overture\ again being sprinkled with incessant .laughing, this time augmented by a few female screams. On this basis you might •say that Kooper can't stand alone, being reliant upon BS & T; yet, after listening to BS & T's second album, which was •recorded after AI had left the group for a post at Columbia Records, you's have to support ~this contention. The style of Blood Sweat and Tears has greatly ·changed, as is said on the album cover, \Rebirt;h '\regeNeration and triumph.\ Although not as dynamic as they used to be, now under the transformed it ,Jn to a fine n~.~w album. Overproduction Tl~ e first side seems \ bit overproduced in that Kooper relies on audio puns for transitions; a heart beat is heard before Nilsonn 's \One\ and the sound of rain is apparent before Traffic~s \Colored Rain.\ Aside from the unnecessary ornamentation, side 1, with the exception of the last cut, is ·good, As menHoned before, it is reminiscent of Blood Sweat and Tears' first, wHh the use of horns, strings, and a brassy sounding chorus to provide contrast for Kooper's low, airy voice. The last selection on the first side is an organ solo by AI, called ••soft Landing on the Moon.\ I'n terms .of the preceding cuts, it is disappointing. An organ break like on \Super Session\ would really make this side complete. Again this may be another ego trip by Kooper, just doing what he wants to do. as being lJ ,_direction of Fred Liqsius, they are still a find assemblage of m1:1sicians putting out good stuff. t That pal't now missing from BS & Tis Kooper; he has taken the basic style from the first Blood Sweat and Tears album, Songs on side one are slow and in places Kooper's voice is disappointing, lacking the dynamics of \I Can't Quit Her.\ But on side tw0, he really comes on strong, vocally. He opens up with a block-buster called \I Can Love a Woman,\ which is Kooper's own song and very much in line with what he has been writing lately. Kooper shows a diversity of vocal styles in \Blue Moon of Kentucky,\ a country western song. ••roe-Hold\ and \Hey Western Union Man\ bring back memories of the Blues Project at Cafe Au-Go-Go. room for me of the not be ~all the songs of which he either wrote or arranged, and has (;ta:lendar Cont • • miniterm in Hawaii engaged in ii , Jntensive s:tudy of a certain type of fish found only in the Islands. In many cases the minitem1 turns out to be merely an ~xtension of Christmas vacation. 'I On the other hand, with proper supervision and a real willingness flon the part of the student to make the miniterm a sincere academic effort, the miniterm could prove extremely useful for intensive study in one subject. In spite of the difficulties in changing from the 3-3-3 calendar, it conceivably would tbe worth doing if it could put an end to the late June dismissal, the crux of the 3-3-3 problems. (<\.s it is, there seems to be no satisfactory way to put an end to the late dismissal under the 3-3-3 calendar. Opening the album, one sees a collage of Kooper's life in music: from his days with the Royal Teens (remember, \Who Wears Short Shorts?\) to his stints with Dylan, the Blues Project, Blood Sweat and Tears, and his recent association with Mike Bloomfield. There is a pattern in Kooper's life, his tendency towards his own identity; he has the habit of joining or forming a group, making it great, and then leaving it. This pattern has culminated in a fine individual effort, \I Stand Alone.\ Traditional Natural Shoulder Clothing ' •1$' Jos. Nusbaum, Inc. 447-451 State Street O•Jr 61 st Year 1n Downtown Schenectady FACSIMJ.LE What's The Good Word? PAGE 5 Literary Group The 11ewly-formed Union College Literary Discussion Group will hold its first meeting at 7:30 •to 9 p.m. Wednesday, with the poetry group meeting in the Social Sciences building facuJ,ty lounge and the fiction group meeting in the HumanHies Building faculty lounge. When asked to comment on his choice of site for the two sections, group mentor Harry Miller commented, \I thought it would be ironic to ptit the poetry group in Social Sciences, and :J thought that putting the fiction group in Humanities would do them poetic justice.\ The poetry group will discuss the poetry of E.E. Cummings, while Kaflca ~ The Trial will be cross-examined in ·the fiction group. As ·of yesterday. the books had not arrived at the I campus bookstore, which is not noted for speed of thought or action. Peter Weingold Views Maintenance Meeting The group will be meeting every two weeks on Wednesday evening. Miller said that any interested students are invited to attend. CONTEST By PETER J. WEINGOLD Several interesting thoughts come to mind concerning the Tuesday night Student Voice meeting on Maintenance. At the meetings some time ago on what to do about parietals, over seven hundred students voiced their approval of the Gordon Plan and over a hundred were willing to \consider further action\ if the trustees didn't accede to their \demands.\ When the issue is one only slightly less visceral, however, the student reaction is noticeably less forceful. Perhaps Professor Ketz is right--maybe there is no real student objection to the present plan or an even more structured one. Or perhaps the Student Body, like some grey haired, balding, fat, middle aged man, can't handle the long walk to the Social Sciences Auditorium. except when motivated by thoughts ofsexual pleasures. AI Cohen and the other fifty-four hardy students who braved temperatures approaching 40 degrees (above) are to be commended. Informed sources have it that the Faculty Council is only too willing to listen to a student proposal. This demonstration of student interest, coupled with the last gasp efforts of the Student Council to go down swinging, should prove to the faculty that the men of Union really are willing to take a stand against anything that interferes with their rights as mature individuals. That is, of course, if The North End Coffeehouse will finish out its slate this term with Father Corr, Irish folk song singer, from 8 to midnight tonight in Bronner House, North College. Father Carr, an ordained Roman Catholic priest, accompanies himself on banjo. He sings with a gusty Irish accent, with a repertoire composed mainly of humorous and patriotic traditional Irish folk songs. He appeared once last year at the North End. CAMPUS INTERVIEWS For Civilian Positions with the u.s. Air Force Systems CommCilnd March 4, 1969 - The Systems Command utilizes the ski lis of SCIENTISTS, ENGINEERS, and TECHNICALLY ORIENTED ADMINISTRATORS to meet its mission as the Air Force's single overall manager for the steps. involved in the acquisition of aerospace systems. These openings exist throughout the country and offer exceptional first-job involvement in professional work. Most positions are in the Career Civil Service. . Contact your campus Placement Officer to arrange an interview, or write to: Headquarters Air Force Systems Command (SCPCB-CN) Andrews Air Force Base Washington, D.C. 20331 An Equal Oppc;>rtunity Employer IS it's not too difficult for the men of Union to arouse themselves from their sexual fantasies long enough to sign the anti-maintenance petition now being circulated. OVER ~ ~----i~~ <:>' -- ---~ \~;...-- Don't fall for the wrong skis When you buy a pair of skis, remember: buy skis de- signed for your type of skiing. Often, beginners fall for a pair of expensive skis made for r<:Jcing conditions. And then find themselves falling down on the turns. Skis are made for all sorts of skiing and snow condi- tions. If you'·r.e a beginner or even a good weekend skier, you don't want shaped and extra-flexible skis designed for slalom racing. Instead of making you a better skier, they'd probably hold you back. Skiing is supposed to be fun. Keep that in mind when you buy skis. Get the pair most suited to your height, ability and the conditions where you usually ski. Yot1'1l save money· and you'll enjoy the ·sport a lot more. You'll ski better, too. For the most re-',able reports on ski conditions in the East, listen to \Ski Reports byRoxy\ with Roxy Rothafel, the voice of skiing. On WGY Radio 810 in Schenectady-and on other stations throughout the Northeast. And on your next ski trip, be sure to enjoy Schaefer- the one beer to, have when you're having more than one. Schaefer Brewenes, New York and Albany. N.Y .• Ball•more. Md. I j• i i I i l

PAGE 6 . FEBRUARY 28, 1969 \It's all over now, Baby Blue. '' BOB DYLAN FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDULE Second Term - 1968-69 • Conflicts in examinations should be reported to Mrs. De Groff in the Office of the Registrar not later than Friday, March 7, 1969. Examinations will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code o:f the buildings to be used. BH-Bailey Hall BU-Butterfield Hall CH-Camegie Hall EE-Eiectrical Engineering Bldg. GL-Geology Laboratory HU- Humanities Building OC-Old Chapel PL-Physics Laboratory PY -Psychology Laboratory SS-Social Sciences Building MONDAY, MARCH 17 9:00-ll:OOA.M. Music 32 (The Artist in Society)- in HU 019 ·Prof. H. Wilson Economics 32 (Labor and Industrial Relations)· in SS 112 · Mr. Prosper French 30 (Readings in Contemporary French Literature)- in HU 115 ·Prof. Roberts Philosophy 20 (Classical Logic)- in SS 016- Prof. Peterson Political Science 65 (Politics of Metropolitan Areas)- in SS 115 · Mr. Hartwig Mathematics 12 {Calculus II) Sec. 1 - in PL 202 - Prof. Maddaus Sec. 2 - in EE 22- Prof. Stone Sec. 3- in EE 22- Prof. Stone Sec. 4 - in PL 202 · Mrs. Gorman Sec. 5 - in PL 202 - Prof. Ballard Sec. 6 - in BH 304 - Prof. Gillette Sec. 7 - in BH 304 - Mr. Strait E. 51 (Machine Language Programming)- in EE 14 ·Mr. Plesums M.E. 41 (Systems Dynamics and Control) - in CH 110 · Prof. Haag 2:00-4:00 P.M. Comp. Ed. 54 (Psychological Concepts of Man and His Behavior) -in SS 016- Prof. Graves Economics 44 (International Economics) - in SS 012 - Mr. Behrens English 52 (Literature of the English Renaissance)· in HU 110- Prof. Niemeyer History 63 (Modern China)- in SS 115- Mr. Thurston French II (Basic French II)- in HU 114- Prof. Raser German 10 (Basic German I)- in HU 014- Mr. Peschka Spanish 33 (The Spanish Language in Practical Use l) - in HU 116 - Mrs. Vinick Political Science 11 (The American 'Political System) -in PL 202- Prof. Underwood Political Science 42 (The Soviet Political System) - in SS 014- Prof. Sharlet Political Science 62 (Judicial Process) - in SS 113 - Prof. W. Daniels · Sociology 12 (Human Society H)- in SS 112- Prof. Fox Biology 14 (Origin and Diversity of Animals-Core IV)- in BH 308 -Prof. Roth Biology 49 (Biophysical Aspects of Cell Physiology) - in BH 307- Prof_ Lambert Biology 54 (Early Animal Development) - in BH 304 - Prof .. Rappaport Chemistry 30 (Organic Chemistry I)- in BU 201 -Prof. Sowa E. 50 (Fortran Programming)· in EE 22- Prof. Craig E.E. 41 (Energy Conversion)- in EE 16 ·Prof. Ingvarsson TUESDAY, MARCH 18 9:00-11:00 A.M. Classics 14 (The Literature of Ancient Greece in Translation)- in SS 016- Mr. Ross Economics 27 (Statistical Methods) -in SS 112- Mr. Balkrishna English 13 {Major American Authors) - in HU 115 · Prof. Niemeyer History 21 (British History from the 15th Century to 1688) - in SS 012- Prof. N. Allen History 30 (Colonial Period of America, 1607-1776)- in SS 010- Mr. Wells History 33 (Jacksonian America, 1812-1840)- in SS 117- Prof. Potts History SO {Europe in the 20th Century) · in SS 115 - Prof. Hansen German 12 (Basic German III) - in HU 112 - Mr. Peschka Spanish 31 (Introduction to Spanish-American Literature) - in HU 110- Mrs. Rawe Chemistry 34 (Quantitatjve Chemistry) - in BU 201 - Prof. Schaefer Mathematics 37 (Real Variable Theory II}- in CH 168 - Prof. Sarma Physics 46 (Nuclear Physics)- in PL 106- Prof. Jones Psychology 31 (Abnormal Psychology)- in PY 102- Prof. Pearee E.E. 31 (Applied Laplace and Fourier Transforms)- in EE 16- Prof. C. Allen M. E. 43 (Fluid Dynamics)- in CH 111 -Prof. Shanebrook Aerospace Studies 41 (The Professional Officer H)- in Hoadley Heuse - Col. O'Bier 2:00- 4:00P.M. Comp. Ed. 59 (Sound and Music)- in EE 22 ·Prof. Craig Comp. Ed. 81 (Society, Biology and Ethics) -in BH 304- :Prof. Roth Chinese 11 (Basic Chinese II)- in HU 016 ·Prof. Woo Chinese 31 (Mndern Chinese II)- in HU 016- Prof. Woo French 33'(The French Language in Practical Use I)- in HU 112- Mr. LeClerc Russian 11 (Basic Russian II) - in HU 116 . Prof. Petelchuk Russian 31 (Advanced Russian I)- in HU 116 -Prof. Petelchuk Political Science 10 (Comparative Political Analysis)- in SS 016-- Prof. Sharlet Chemistry 10(Fundamental Chemistry I) Sec. 1• in BU 201- Prof. Reed Sec. 2- in BU 201- Prof. Schaefer Psychology 48 (Clinical Psychology I) - in PY 102 - Mr. Weitz WEDNESDAY,MARCH19 9:00-11:00 A.M. Economics 25 (Principles of Accounting)· in OC- Mr. Malik History 75 (The Russian Revolution and the New Regime)- in SS 014- Mr. Berk French 12 (Basic French Ill) Sec. 1 -in BU 114- Prof. Raser Sec. 2 - in HU 117 - Mr. Le Clerc German 33 (The German Language in Practical Use I) - in HU 115 - Prof. Klemm Philosophy 11 (Philosophical Classics) - in HU 110 - Miss Parker Political Science 64 (Legislative Process) - in SS 115 - Prof. Underwood Physics 11 (Mechanics) Sec. l - in PL 202 - Prof. Titus Sec. 2- in PL 202- Prof. W. Schwarz Sec. 3 - in PL 202- Prof. W. Schwarz Sec. 4 - in EE 22- Prof. Grunwald Sec. 5 - in EE 22 · Prof. Grunwald Psychology 20 (Statistical Methods) - in PY 102- Mrs. Hesse C.E. 43 (Environmental Engineering)- inCH 304- Prof. Harlow 2:004:00 P.M. Drama 22 (History of the Theatre: Medieval th~ough Late Restoration)- in HU 110- Mr. Weil Classics 26 {The Western Heritage: The Modern World) - in SS 115- Prof. Reece History 11 (A Survey of Modem Europe, 1715-1939) Sec. 1 -in SS 016- Prof. Hansen Sec. 2- in SS 016- Mr. Berk History 52 {Seminar in 20th Century European History) -in SS 0 16 - Prof. Hansen History 55 (Problems of Political and Economic Development in Modern Latin America)· in SS 010- Prof. Bristol History 71 (Russian in the Imperial Age) - in SS 016 - Mr. Berk French 44 (Emile Zola and His Milieu) - in HU 116- Prof. Raser Geology 53 {Geomorphology)- in GL 24- Prof. La Fleur Mathematics 10 (Calculus I) Sec. 1 -in EE 22- Mr. Strait Sec. 2 -in EE 22- Mrs. Corman Mathematics 30 (Ordinary Differential Equations) Sec. 1 - in PL 202 · Prof. Sanna Sec. 2 - in PL 202 - Mr. Riley Sec. 3- in PL 202 ·Mr. Leach Mathematics 32 (Abstract Algebra I) Sec. 1 -in CH 210- Mr. Leach Sec. 2 - in CH 207 · Prof. Bick Mathematics 45 (Topology II)- inCH 108- Prof. Ballard E.E. 44 (Electromagnetic Theory)- in EE 16- Prof. C. Allen TijURSDA Y, MARCH 20 9:00-ll:OOA.M. Economics 1 0 (Elementary Economics - Part I) Sec. 1 -in SS 016- Mr. Bryant Sec. 2- in SS 016- Mr. Bryant Sec. 3 - in HU 115 - Mr. Bingham Economics 42 (Macroeconomic Analysis, Fluctuations and Policy) - in EE 22 · Mr. Kershner Political Science 12 (International Politics) - in SS 112 - Prof. Connor Sociology 10 (Human Society I)- in SS 115- Mr. Willison Biology 12 (Cell Biology - Core II)· in BH 304- Prof. Butzel Geology 51 (Oceanography)- in GL 24 ·Prof. Katz FACSIMILE 2:00-4:00 P.M. Greek 31 (Herodotus and 1'hucydides) · in HU 1'1 9 - Prof. Reece History 42 (Economic Development of Underdevelope&.' Countries)- in SS 117 - Prof. Finkle stein History 44 (Late Medieval ;and Renaissance Europe)- in SS 110- Prof. N. Allen :,., Political Science 43 (Latin American Political Systetn) -in SS 012 -Mr. Nichols Sociology 37 (The Urban Community)- in SS 113- Prof. Fox I& Chemistry 48 (Radiochemistry) ·in HU 201 - Prof. Weick Physics 15 (Quantum Effects and Fundamentals of Modem Physics) - in PL 105 - Prof. Gol>le • Physics 33 (Electricity and Magnetism II) - in PL 1 OS - :Prof. Wylen Psychology 10 (A First Course in Psychology) Sec. 1 - in PL 202 · Prof. Huntley Sec. 2 - in PY 102 · Prof. Girdner Sec. 3- in EE 22- Prof. Calabria tJ Psychology 30 (Theory of:?ersonality)- in SS 016- Prof. Graves Aerospace Studies 25 (W()rld Military Systems) - in Hoadley House- Capt. Steinmeier fr> FRIDAY, MARCH 21 9:00-11:00 A.M. Economics 11 (Elementary :Economics -Part II) Sec. 1 - in SS 112 · Mr: Behrens Sec. 2- in SS 113 0 Mr; Prosper Economics 38 (Quantitative Methods in Economics)- in SS 010- Prof. Bennett English 73 (Seminar: Studies in Fiction) -in HU 113 - Prof. Gad~ German 31 (Readings from. 18th and 19th Century Literature) - in HU 110- Mr. Peschka Philosophy 10 (Introduction to Philosophy) - in HU 114 - M~ Foster Philosophy 33 (Origins of Existentialism) - in HU 115 - Mr~ George Chemistry 12 (Fundamental Chemistry II) Sec. 1 -in BU 201- Prt>f. Maycock Sec. 2 - in BU 201 - Pr()f. J. Daniels Sec. 3 -in BU 201- Pr()f. Reed J Geology 12 (Mineralogy I)- in GL 24- Prof. Whitney Mathematics 28 (Probability)- inCH 201 . Mr. Riley Mathematics 48 (Vector an.d Tensor Analysis)- inCH 207- Prof. Seiken Physics 22 (Electronic Circuits)- in PL 104 -Mr. Schubert Psychology 24 (Social Psychology) - in PL 202 -Prof. Calabria E. 22 (Science of Engineering Materials) Sec. 1 - in EE 22 - Prof. Leary Sec. 2- in EE 22- Prof. Eisenstadt 2:00-4:00 P.M. Greek 11 (Principles of Greek)- in HU 116 -Mr. Ross Latin 11 (Latin Readingl)-in HU 116- Mr. Ross Latin 33 (Literature of th.e Late Republic) - in HU 119 - Prof. · Reece German 11 (Basic German II)- in SS 016- Mr. Schlebusch Spanish 11 (Basic Spanish H) Sec. 1 - in HU 112 - :Mrs. Rawe Sec. 2 - in HU 117 - :Mts. Vinick Biology 80 (Biochemistry I) · in BH 307 - Prof. Miroff Chemistry 31 (Organic Chemistry II) Sec. 1 ·in BU 201 -Prof. W. Martin Sec. 2- in BU 201 -Prof. Maycock E. 11 (Systems, Computers and Design. II) Sec. 1 · in CH 301 ·Prof. Male u· Lt. Cc us-AF, wi aerospace reassigntn4 Col.'Charl Col. o: since 196( R In a noted U1 Fro The sponsor Februal) Gymnasi TranspOJ !:tave bee Skidmor Ellis r attend. : one do Music VI The Soft By RICHi Racial mounting working becommir expressio ' toward co consequer becoming political c As a I~ '1'. England : former Common Asia and .t ~ in search number c Nigerians _. othe~s, Sf growmg. immigra citizens ll countries R This change, h € a leadil Conserva present < a· been con tighten in£ to minb colored c maintains here, live families, ( children, \British\. of wholf England. < lead to clashes r blood\. C calls f< Sec. 2 - in CH 111 -Prof. Eisenstadt Sec. 3 - in EE 24 - Prof. Craig Sec. 4 - in EE 16 · Prof. Goodheart E. 30 (Mechanics of Deformable Solids) Sec. 1 - in CH 108 - Ptof. Panlilio Sec. 2 - in CH 304 -:Mr. Pikul u ~t Repatri< cqlored i: E.E. 3 2 (Analysis of Elecrtonics Devices) Sec. 1 - in EE 22 - Prof. Hoffman Sec. 2 - in EE 22 - Mr .. Morrison SPRING TERM RJ!GISTRA TiON PROCEDURES Spring term classes wm begin at 8:30 on Monday, March 31st. Student schedules will be distributed to college addresse1 prior to the beginning of classes. Stvden ts who do not receive a copy of their class schedule will be able to secure a copy at the Field House beginning at 8:00 A.M. on· the first day of classes. Formal registration and payment of spring term charges will take place in the Field House-on 'fuesday and Wednesday, April I and 2, from 9:00 to 11:30 A.M .• and from 1:00 to 3:30P.M. Students should report as follows: LAST NAME A-F G-K L·Q R·Z REFORT Tuesday morning 'fucsday afternoon We!lnesday morning Wednesday afternoon Students may report aot a time other tlmn above shmlid classes interfere. A late paymcll!t fee wftl be assessed after Wednesday afternoon. ' l. LAUJ A I 8 lbs. , E. 4 Lb.~ 10 Mir II . (.. Sp . ( Chemistry 36 (Physical Chemistry I)- in BU 201- Prof. Festa Mathematics 14 (Calculus III)· inCH 207- Prof. Holt Mathematics 38 (Multivariable Calculus I) - in CH 207 · Mr. Students who have .schedule problems will have a notation attached to their class schedule, and they should rep()rt to the Registrar at the Field Ho~:~se after seeing their advisers. Adjustments and changes in scheddeurnay be made at the Field House M'onday through Friday, March 3l·April 4 from 8:45A.M. to 3:30\ P.M., except for the noon ltour. Friday, April4 is the last day for making schedule adjustments. Mon.· Th Behan

Reece ss 110- i,l 012 Fox I& Modem • - :Prof. (J Graves Hoadley f5 in ss 010- • Prof. Gado - ~ 114 -Mr. 115 · Mr~ 207- Prof. bert Calabria 119 ·Prof.· U' , 0 BRUARY 28, 1969 PAGE 7 I b · ., G t N C I . :. 1 ·~Jve_ l~terning Seminar Planned jstaff To Meet] ,Y . oys e . e~ . o ~ne m leg1slature - - B1er Leav1ng .•n Spr~ng · -The Hudson Valley Chapter, Society for the Advancement of A Concordiensis staff meeting will convene at 8:00 Monr:lay evening in the editorial offices in Bronner House. Ch· f topic of discussion will be the trwning of a new constitution for Union's 91-year-old newspaper. Several drafts have been submitted tf) the editors. Blither Any member of the College community wishing to suggest possible convocation speakers for 1969-70 should submit a written list of nominees to Prof. D. Ross, Dept. of Classics, Humanities Bu.i,lding. · Lt. Col. Richard J. McGee, USAF, will become professor of. aerospace studies upon · the · reassigmnent this spring of Lt. Col.'Charles J. O'Bier. Cbl. O'Bier has been at Union since 1966. ROTC Reviewed In announcing the ''\\'\''T1 tment of Colonel McGee, Harold C. Martin noted Union College has all Frosh .Mixer The Class of I 972 will sponsor a mixer on Friday, February 28, in the Alumni Gymnasium at 8:30 P.M. Transportation . arrangements have been made for girls from Skidmore, Albany State, and Ellis Nursing School to attend. Men will be charged one dollar for admission. Music will be provided by The Soft Wax. aspects of the ROTC program under-review at the present time. T h e i:l e w f e' c.l e T a! ad,ministrati;on' is presently re-studying tfte draft, and the Johnson administration had previotfsly taken various steps to reduce the number of ROTC uni-ts. The re-studying at Union is therefore part of a general reassessment directed at the role colleges and universities can best .play in serving the national welfare. Dr. Martin stressed at Union the Air Fo:r:ce ROTC program is voluntary. Since, the program offers students the opportunity to prepare for a commission, he pointed out, it is fundamentally a device for producing a \citizen\ rather than a \professional\ officer corps. Opposition Most opposition to it, he said, reflects concern about the curriculum and doubt 1hat military training is appropriate to the nature of a liberal arts institution. Five Union College students are currently serving a~ terns in the offices of members of the state legislature in Albany. The internship program is designed to enable students to gain a better understanding of the legislative process through participa·tion and first~hand observation. Dr. James Underwood, assistant professor of political science at Union, is program co-ordinator. Two state senators and three assemblymen have Union students in their offices. The senators are J. Douglas Barclay of Pulaski and Darwin Niles of Johnstown. The assemblymen are Peter Biondo of Ossining, Seymour Posner of the Bronx, and Clark Wemple of Schenectady. Serving as interns are Edward J. Buzak, a junior from Lodi, N.J.; Donald A. Kessler, a sophomore from South Orange, N.J.; Michael L. Martell, a junior from Schenectady; Thomas D. Miller, a senior from Sodus; and Richard H. Weiner, a sophomore from Monticello. · Management, · will sponsor ·a seminar on •the \Modern Methods of E>ecision Making\ March 7 and 8 on the Union College campus~ · The course is designed to discuss the various applications of analytical and predictive methods to the problems of decision mawng. Particular areas of discussion will include selecting the best strategy in the face of competition and evaluating and selecting .the best of a set of alternate plans. Material to be presented will include introductory probability theory and decision theory. The faculty will be Prof. Gerald Glasser of New York University; Prof. William Hannum of the Syracuse University Executive Controls Program; Donald Holmes, associate professor of industrial administration at Union; and Dr. Alfred L. Thimm, professor of economics and industrial administration and chairman of Union's Institute of Industrial Administration. · Report From . london · . By RICHARD PATTERSON. JR. Racial tension is slowly mounting in Britain. White working class Britons are becomming increasingly open in expression of hostile views toward colored immigrants. As a consequence, racism is best becoming a means of making political capital. As a legacy of colonial days, \ England finds more and more former subjects from Commonwealth countries in Asia and Africa immigrating here • in search of the better life. The number of Indians, Pakistanis, Nigerians and Kenyans, among others, settling here is steadily • growing. At present, British immigration laws regarding citizens of Commonwealth ll countries are quite liberal. Rivers of Blood This situation may soon change, however. Enrich Powell, € a leading member of the Conservative Party, Britain's present opposition party, has ~· been continually calling for the tightening of immigration laws to minimize the influx of colored immigrants. Powell ~ maintains that they may come here, live their lives and raise families, hut they and their children, he says, can never be ( \British\. He invokes the spectre of whole cities populated by England. This, he says, would < lead to American-style racial clashes resulting in \rivers of blood\. One of his favorite plans calls for a ·\Ministry of ~£ Repatriation\ to encourage cqlored immigrants to return to their country ot origm. When Powell first put forth these views, he was condemned by the Labour Government of Prime Minister Harold Wilson, and by the leader of his own party, Edward Heath. Recently, Heath also called for a tightening of immigration laws to stem the flow of Asians and Africans into the country. Further, a public opinion poll taken soon after his speech showed widespread public support for his views. Powell, out of favor with Heath for the \extremeness\ of his views, nevertheless seems to enjoy widespread support among his constituents in Wolsenhampton, a suburb of Birmingham, Britain's second largest city. With the Conservatives planning for the general election due within two years, the political significance of public support for these views can not be over looked. There are at least two ways in which Britain can choose to deal with the problem of growing DARI TREET RESTAURANT YOUR CHOICE CHAR-BROIL STEAK VEAL CUTLET CHICKEN •• , $ 1.65 2049 Von Vronken Ave. FR 7..4261 ZELLMER'S NORGE E. LAUNDRY AND CLEANING VIlLAGE AT 1559 VAN VRANKEN AVE. (at HoHie Street! DRY CLEANING WASHERS 8 lbs. ----------- $2.00 12 Lb.------------ .25 4 Lb. Min. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 1.00 20 lb. _________ --- .35 DRYERS 30 Lb. _ . _______ --- .50 lOMin. ----------- .10 OPEN- MON. TO FRI. 8:00A.M. TO 9:00 P.M. SATURDAY 8:00A.M. TO 5 P.M. (CLOSED SUNDAYS) IF YOU HAVE NEVE-R HAD NORGE DRY CLEANING DONE WE CAN BET YOU WILL BE AMAZED ,_.E·WEST LU~f:H 71 S Albany Street Specializing: . - H.OT DOGS WITH FAMOUS SAUCE racial tension. She can attempt to arrest the problem by cutting off most colored immigration, thus maintaining a white society in Britain. This is the solution of the Conservative demogoges now; a solution strangely inconsistent with their strident condemnation of the racist governments in Rhodesia and South Africa. The second answer is to meet the challenge to establish a building a free, equal and open society-free, equal and open to all, regardless of race. This second solution is not, of course, the easier one. It requires a determination to provide education and vocational training for immigrants in order that they be fully integrated into the society, being able both. to contribute meaningfully to the society and lead a dignified life. It requires a determination to press for economic development which will expand tl1e economy to relieve the squeeze on \native\ British and enable the economy to absorb a substantial number of immigrants. r·--;~-~;;;-l T T Cafeteria and Tap Room • l Fine Food and legal Beverages l 118- 120 JAY STREET J-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-.---~-- A New American film by Graeme Ferguson Starring Severn Darden A high political comedy wbich takes off on the'sP,ecula'licm '\What would happen if the United Sta:tes .of America were n.tled by a monumentally · ·incompetent President.- .. \· ' All members of all staffs, as well as any intere~ted students or facu I ty a:~ invited. Attendance is mandatory for all Senior Board Members, but not for the Junior Board or staff reporters . Room-mate Wanted One more room-mate is needed to fill th rea-bedroom apartment. $40 a monih with all utilities. Five minute walk from campus. Call 346·6877 after 11:15 p.m. A brief resume may be included if the nominee is not generally known. Because the time for contacting possible future speakers is fleeting, lists must be submitted .by next week. There will be a meeting of the Senior class on Tuesday, March 4. Plans for the Weekend and Class Day activities will be discussed. Suggestions will also be taken for Class Marshalls, Ivy Orator, Pipe Orator, Class Historian, Class Prophet, Class Poet, Song ·Leader, and Keeper of the Jug. Place: SS 016, 11:30 Tuesday, March 4. Student body poll on new student government Monda'y, March 3, 6-12 p.m. in tije individual units. · jf-; y-;;u-;;,ppli~t/;n for;; a-;;d furthe7;;;to;;atio;; mail thi~e;;uest to;-l I Mr. Larry E. Toth I I Pehnsylvania Department of Highways 1 Bureau of Personnel J : .Harrisburg, Pa. 17120 I I NAME I I I ' ( -·- DINNERS AND SANDWICHES ¥~fOR'LD. PREMIERE I AQDRESS I ay ng -~ TAKE-OUT ORDERS -\-\ Union Students F-avorite Spot - (Serving. Schenectady Since 1921 J Mon.-Thurs. 7 A.M.·2 A,M. Fri.·Sot. 7 A.M.·4 A.M. Sun. 9 A.M.·l A.M. ADMISSION, $1.00 · UNION COLLEGE SS016 7:00& S.AT.~ MARCH !, SUN., MARCH 2 A'POMEGRANATE PRODUCT,ION 9:00p.m. ------..::...:...:. ... -. I I 1 I I DEGRE'E: B.s._ M.s._ I I I I FIELD: . I ----~~------~-----------J

Fac:simile Inside·- Concordy Sports Calendar . . ~) RevaSI'Onr F PAGE 8 'FEBRUARY.28-; 1969 1 'Hamilton Bests HooPsters In Season Finalie Frosh Cagers Rout Siena; ) End Season ~ith 9-7 Log , .). r:VOL. 98, By GARY PREVOST Hamilton. College unleashed a devastating fast break to score a 95-97 win over the Gamet hoopsters in Clinton Wednesday. The loss ended a surprising hoop seas on. on a dismal note, dropping the Dutchmen's slate to 1 0-1 L The host Continentals scored their thirteenth victory in sixteen games. No Garnet hoopster enjoyed a good night, but Bill Boemke led the Union scoring with twenty points, while Bill Neidel ended a fine season with a seventeen point output. He fmished the season with 455 points, a 21.6 average, just 45 points offToby Lustig's season record of 600 set in 1963-64. Bill scored e_ight field goals last night t'o equal Lustig's season record of 184. Neidel also set a Union record in free throws, making thirty in a row before missing his final attempt. Brooks McCuen, working on the end of the Continental fast break, tallied 27 and Bill Barton qith fine outside shooting scored 24. Hamilton broke away from an early 4-4 tie to a 20-7 bulge after ten minutes with the help of numerous Garnet turnovers BowlingTourneySet; Case Third In State Coach Art Lawrence has announced the All-College Singles Bowling Tournament, to be held at the Boulevard Bowl, with the fmals slated for March 10. Qualification rounds will be held at the Boulevard Bowl March 3-5 from 1:30 to 3:00p.m. Each bowler will be allowed two entries, each of three games. To be eligible, the kegler must sign up at the lanes before the start of the series he wished to qualify. The top sixteen bowlers will advance to the fmals, to be bracketed by qualifying score. Any ties for sixteenth plaue .will be broken by a one-game roll-Off. The fmals will be one game, single elimination contests. In other bowling news, AI Case's third place fmish in the singles highlighted the Bowling Club's effort in the New York State Region All-College tournament at lthaca. Case rolled a 636 series, fmishing only eight pins from the winning score. and missed layups. The quick Hamil t·on zone caused the numerous turnovers and the Continentals consistently got behincl the Garnet gaards to scme on easy layups. The Garnet showed their usual prowess in adjusting to foreign courts when they made ·only three of their first 21 shots. The Dutchmen rallied briefly behincl the shooting of Boemke and Neidel to get within nine, 28-18 with 5:30 left in the half. Hamilton pulled away. however, to take a 46-28 halfti.nj£ lead with good outside shooting. The second half was no con test as the Continentals steadily widened the lead until the winners emptied the bench with a 71-40 lead. The COntinentals finished with a 52% effort from the floor on 37-71 while the Garnet were a dismal 26 of75. The losses to Hamilton and RPI ended the season on a dismal note, but did not eliminate the fme season that the hoopsters, produced in the face ·of almost insul'mountable odds. The 1969 Garnet hoopsters were not a team deep in natural basketball talent, but the very significant improvements of Bill Neidel, Bill Boenike and Warren Mumford Mafl; f!efend ICAC By JIENRY FEIN As many as 75 wre~tlers are scheduled to be on hand this weekend at Hobart for the annual ICAC wrestling tournament. The Gamet grapplers are heavy favorites to take the tourney crown for the second straight season. With five returning ICAC champs and an undefeated dual meet record in the loop, the Dutchmen are expected to top the wrestlers from RPI, St. Lawrence, Clarkson, and host Hobart. . Five of seven returning champs are from Union: Ron Ruhl (117), Bill Munno (123), Frank D'Antuono (130), Jeff Knetzer (145) and Naysim Simon (16 7). Simon remained undefeated in dual match competition in college this year. Jay Robinson of Clarkson, at 177, and AI LaRock of S t Lawrence will also defend their crowns. The latter is expected to get strong opposition from the Garnet's Pete Kenyon. In last Saturday's dual meet, Kenyon looked very good although suffering a 6-4 defeat LaRock is, however, 25-0 in college, including 15 pins. Marty Leffler of RPI, third last year, is expected to be Ruhl's toughest foe at 117, while Munno must contend with teammate John Barrows, also third in last season's event. The Engineers' Gerardo Brown who has been battling D' Antuono for two years, finally beat him in this season's dual meet, and th.e two should meet, as they did last year, in the finals. • Dick Rosener of the Garnet is expected to do well at 160, but he will have sizeable opposition from John Clark of St. Lawrence, 10-2 on the season and ICAC 167 champ two years ago and Pete McEarchern of RPI, 177 champ in 1967. Simon's foes at 167, perhaps the strongest class in the tourney, Mike Abranovich of RPI and Mike Dobbin of Hobart, who was 8-3 this season. On the other hand, 177 is probably the weakest division. The Garnet's Brian Crandall, John Pandish of RPI and Hobart's Joe Rinaldisa are all rated as contenders for the title. Hobart's Frank Boyan, 5-2-1 as a heavyweight, is favored at 191, where he will meet Frank Bell of St. Lawrence and Union's Ken Marz. In the team standings, the ·.Garnet's greatest opposition will be from RPI, 5-6 on the season, and Hobart, with a 7-4 mark. Four Hobart freshmen sported over or better records in dual meet varsity competition. HA TOTALLY NEW INVOLVEMENT\-·N.Y. Time 2 DAYS ONLY: WED. & THURS. MAR. S-6 MA.TINEE AT 2:00 COLONY THEATRE 1330 State St. EVENINGS AT 7:00-9:00 Student &-Faculty Disc~unt Coupons Available produced the key to the season. Prior to this season, Neidel had been a good offensive player, but in 1968-69 he became an outstanding offensive threat, hitting on over 50% of his shots and improving his defense and rebounding, pulling down over ten loose balls per game. Neidel scored 932 points in a 55-game college career (for a 16.9 average) which was interrupted by a year in Switzerland. The total compares with Dave Santos' Union record of 1117 in 58 games, compiled in 1960-63. Warren Mumford was a reserve for two seasons and only got his chance to start this season. He did well, playing fme defense and giving the Gamet consistent double figure efforts until he was slowed by a late season injury. n·y HANK LEVINE sealing the middle on defense and grabbiNg r,ebounds on 1 G h The Union freshmen closed out their .season in grand style Wednesday night as they whipped Siena by a score of 106-80. The first half was no1 the runaway that the score might imply. Siena opened the game with a zone defense: but the Garnet's Jim Tedisco responded with hot outside shoo1ing to break the zone. Siena, however, never found it easy to penetrate the Garnet defense and hit on numerous layups to take a 14-11 lead with 15:51 left in the half. Siena's ballhandling ability turned sloppy as Union came back and gained the lead, 17-15, on a beautiful move t() the basket by Tedisc.o, With 12:24 remaining . in the half, Rich Matthews replaced Goldberg. Matthews d.id .. a fine job of offense.. , Union's offensive pla:y• · · became sloppy while Siena's \ · sho0ting got hot, enabling them p to c\it the lead to three, 34-31 • . U· with 4:56 to play in the half. A? · · · · ' the sixteen minute mark., l:Tnio11 went into a full court press, whi:ch eventually prove<\ effective, forcing numerous '1 Siena turnovers. Bob Pezzano and Rich MacLeod converted Siena's mistakes into baskets tJ ' • give the Garnet a 46-41 lead at the intermission. Union Romp ., Emil A of the C< York, told Club audi~ hopes tha1 CJrganizati< eventuaHy The l organizatic 9\.ftican c' Africa and African [Jrothers t< been the Ghana's ContinentalsTopPuckster Win3-20vertime Decisi;on The second half was all Union, as the freshmen never lost control of the lead. Wiili 13 :50 left to play, Ricb Goldberg put in a layup after a , good inside move to give the frosh a twelve point lead, 59-47. From there on, the freshmen left' Siena in the dust as they increased their lead to twenty, 72-52 with 11:39 to play. • At the 12:29 mark, Coach Brown began to give his regulars a rest, amid shouts by fans to reach the century mark. Joel) Roslyn niade the lOOth point to , give the Garnet a 1 00· 78 lead. One ·minute and twenty-five) seconds later, the game ended with Unjpn the vistors by a score achieved in e Adzima necessary 1 countries 1 ~tates. He used of Togo or f. French portion o German c France rec By BILL HOLLERAN In an exciting, hard-fought hockey game played Monday night on Hamilton ice, the Hockey Club was edged in overtime, 3-2, by a rejuvenated Continental JV squad. Seeking to avoid another humiliation at the hands of the Dutchmen, Hamilton pulled a \fast one\ on the skaters, borrowing several varsity players for the contest .Monday night's game was not to be confused with the loosely-played, high-scoring Union-Hamilton tilt of February 8, as both sides played tight-checking hockey and punished each other with bruising bodywork. Both goaltenders were outstanding in the nets. Both teams came out flying at the stlut of the third period, determined to win the hockey game. Hamilton moved in front of the Dutchmen at 12:41, scoring on a controversial play. Brickl··y had made a stick save on a low Hamilton drive, but the rebound bounced crazily over his head, and the llnion goalkeeper made a diving attempt to keep the puck out of the cage. He did manage to smother the disc right on the 'T...t7\' _.._ ;!.._C: ISTERED k ~psa. e· DIAMOND RINGS Every Keepsake engagement diamond is flawless, SQ you can choose your Keepsake ring with confidence. 428 ST A.1'E STREET goal-line, but the referees ruled it a goal. of 106-80. fndepender Britain rec< Ghana. Four minutes later, Brad Hastings set the stage for sudden-death overtime when he tied the score by knowcking in a loose puck frC>m the midst of a goal-mouth scramble. Hamilton, however, quicldy disposed of the Garnet in overtime. scoring after only ten seconds had elapsed. The Continentals won the game on a rising shot from the right face-off circle that eluded the screened-out Brickley, who did not see the puck until it flew over his left shculder into the nets. Jim Tedisco was the top scorer of the game with 28 points. Rich MacLeod hit 15, H. DeLuca 14, and Dick Davis 12. t The Gl that lingui~ way of Af main nativ( {,1 other English is ' In the East the majm ~rench col major langt Wednesday night's victory' gave the freshmen hoopers a 9-7 record for the season. FORMAL OPENING OF THE NEW Dave's ~quirr ~bop 420 State St. The Finest 1n Natural Shoulder Sport swear, slacks & shoes t Adzima French-spe: ; economical He said th~ llrOill the I countries t neighborin~ Also, sel the Mrican of unity, ac Three ar ~nder colot Africa, S01 Portugese c, Stuc COUI . Sponson ~ Committee · · Liebhaber petition I , Council M V ~Jeing circul j : J, i . L, Designe< )tudent s1 lroposal ar . Cetz plan, ~~ •·• ~.» 76 signers 100. ~ G!adstot tep is :atching ru '\~d preser acuity.'·' Action upon Fac indicated. ' ~uggestions 0ther forn ~ommittee ) <!lost impo 1 upport a1 1cu1ty oftl Rl_ng! enlarged IO show dl!tail. Tro.dl'-Marll Reg. At p l e se ·-------------' ~--------------------------- t \as bet•r; rt

