Not the two Also that both top are their by in ); ., •I \ (, Founded at Union College 1877 VOL. 99, NO. 16 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, NOVEMBER 4, 1969 PRICE TWENTY CENTS · Tuition To Climb $300 In 1970 For the second time in three years tne Trustees have voted to raise tuiuion by $300. After study of the current budget and that projected f cr 197 0-71' they • decided at their October meeting to raise tuition to $2400, effective in September 3, :1970. In voting to raise tuition the Trustees noted that Union has for some time held its tuition well below that of most comparable eastern colleges. According to a report from the President's office the increase for 1970-71 will bring expenses at Union abreast of current costs elsewhere but, in view of reports of expected increases at other colleges it will probable make next year's expenses, still lower than costs in those colleges with which Union normally compares accounts. Operating Deficit The increases were explained as an attempt to cut down a growing deficit in Paxton Review . ; '\ Pm a Communicator I , > I by DANNY SHOCKET \I'm a communicator, I'm an entertainer. The fact that my idea of entertainment is different from the Las Vegas ethic doesn't make me not an entertainer. I want people to come and go through a lot of changes with me, and be moved and laugh and cry ... that's entertainment.\ Tom Paxton, in a post-concert interview, summed up what had just happened on the Memorial Chapel stage. Those who rewarded his electrifying performance with a sincere standing ovation had gone through a lot of changes with him. Paxton's songs broke the barrier between performer and audience, and for over two hours we became part ofT om Paxton's experience. Social Observer operating costs. Over the past three years the College has run a substantial operating deficit, which will this year exceed a half-million dollars. The tuition increase will not by any means erase a deficit in 1970-71, but it will help to reduce one that, without it, would run close to a million dollars, the trustees said. Increased revenue from the Annual Fund, is also expected to draw the deficit down to about the half-million level expected for this year. Scholarships Between 10-20% of the increase will go back to students in the form of new scholarship money, said R. Gordon Bingham, assistant to the President, but scholarship students will be expected to share some part of the rising costs themselves, by increasing the family contribution, working part-time, or taking loans to cover the difference between what the College can offer and what the total costs are for them. The $2400 tuition charge, it is expected, will continue at least through 1971-72. Parietal Abuses Draw Dean's Ire by RICHARD E. PATTERSON, Jr. The campus police who patrol all college owned residence halls during the night are not involved in any ''concerted drive\ or \snooping effort\ to catch students and dates who may be abusing the unlimited parietals, said John H. Kle inkauf, Director of Security, yesterday. DEAN EDWARD J. MALLOY Over the past weekend a number of students reported that campus police, patrolling dormitory halls in the early morning hours, had taken their names to be given to Dean of Students Edward J. Malloy. In all cases, the student's dates were seen by the police to be in some sort ofnight dress. Regular Patl'ols Kleinkauf said the police made regular patrols through the living units to check for fires and burglars. He said, \the primary reason for the patrols is to protect student's persons and property. The secondary purpose is to protect the college buildings and personnel.\ Kleinkauf said his men were not out looking for violations of parietal rules, but that Dean Malloy had requested that if they came across any on their patrols to report the names of the students involved to him. Most Concern ' f The experience is that of a sad, honest, social observer, who at times cannot help laughing at it all. Paxton's subject matter ranged from Spiro Agnew to a strung-out junkie. \I don't believe in writing a song that doesn't have something to say to the people who come and hear it.\ Kadamus Named Head As Committee Meets Malloy said, \the thing that gives me the most concern is how we can give students freedom and not shock their fellow students, referring to \immoral behavior\ in students rooms. He said that, \visitation rights are just that, not lodging rights. And some people are destroying the purpose of visitation rights.\ r \I like to think every song I write is a love song, and every song I write is also a protest song.\ Paxton accomplishes this by singing his \love'' songs to hookers, junkies, the lonely, the decieved and the frieghtened. The concert began with the song \Morning Again,\ the chronicle of a man's observances as he mourns a lost love. The audience knew immediately how a song could be both. a love and prostest song. Molly Bloom The intensity of the concert kept building throughou·t. The powerfully fragile love songs were succeeded by a love song to James Joyce~s heroine, Molly Bloom. This was followed by satirical songs, for \as long as you have pomposity there's room ·' \ for satire.\ The targets included J.Edgar Hoover, the New York Daily News, \New York's cheapest comic book,\ the funeral profession, and Spiro Agnew ... The Ballad of Spiro Agnew\ is: J 4 \I'll sing you a song of Spiro Agnew, And all the things he's done.\ Talented Accompaniests Accompanying Paxton was Dave Hurowitz on the piano, and intense and talented musician, and Jay Hardy, who replaced the regular bass player whose wife just had a baby. Mr. Hardy seemed •> '· to blend in perfectly, and each arrangement complemented the .. lyrics impeccably. Paxton foresees a time when he may have seventeen men accompanying his songs. Tom Paxton is a man who believes we live in perilous times, and through the convulsion the artist must create. He is a brutally honest gentle poet. His own favorite songs are \All Night Long,\ an elegy for all that has died unsaid, and \Jimmy Newman,\ the thoughts of a young soldier whose best friend has died next to him in a hospital bed. All he had to say he said at the concert. The Committee on Committees of the Student Senate had its first meeting yesterday, November, 3rd. James Kadamus, '71 was elected chairman and seven Senate committees were established. The Elections Committee will handle all class elections. The Line-Backer committee is to investigate the possibility of re-establishing the Line-backer course evaluation. The communications supervises committee WRUC, jean Shepherd will speak in Memorial Chapel tommorrow night, November 5, at 8:00p.m. Shepard is the nationally known radio personality for WOR radio, New York City. The program IS open to the public. Concordiensis, Union Book, and the Idol. The Security committee will study the question of a lack of security on campus during the vacation periods. The All College Academic Council was set up to look into the formation of a Student-Faculty Committee to deal With curricular matters. Through this group, students are expected to gain a greater representation in determining in curricular affairs. The Independent Committee will replace the old IRC (Inter-Residence Council). The last committee farmed was the Student Curricular Committee, intended to investigate possible changes in course requirements. Applications for membership to these committees are due November 10, and must be submitted to the Student Activities office. Kle.inkauf said his men were noting any women in living units after 2:00, even though most living units have voted unlimited parietals. He Continued on page 3 The Mountebanks Saved by Edward Bond New England Premiere ·-No one admitted under 16-· Nov. 6,7,8,13,14,15, Thurs., Fri., Sat. 8:30 p.m. Nott Memorial Theatre Students free dates $1

PAGE 2 Peace Needs More Hard Work Pre~iikn t ~ixon'~ addr<'R!' to thr nation last night diredly dwllmq;etl the effurh; of tho:-;e members of the College cun1muuity who ca~t their lot with the OchJ her 15th Moratorium. If those petitions, those speeches, those mare heR were so shaH owly founded in manly detrrmination that Nixon's reiteration of the poliey that prompkd tho~e pro tests su.ffiees to 4 uie t them, then the Nove Ill her Moratol'ium will he an unendiHg disgrace to the College and a disservice to those people in neighboring communities who marched with us. With firm resol.vi', let the College reiterate its posit ian un the search for peace in Vietnam and southeast Asia. On November 14-15, let every man, faculty member or student, opinion leader or poster painter, redouble his effort~ and rea!'st>rt his drdii'ation to peaf'r. \f'W C 4t~~1' ~ ... ,~T' ,..A10 ~~T~ Film Unhappiness The Lectures and Coneerts Committee and the student:-; who run the Film Haps deserve a large measure of praise for the excellent programs of speakers :md films that they have arranged for the year. But the film screenings in the Social Sciences Auditorium attract only those hardy souls who can pu i up with ever-plesent technical difficulties, shaky screen images, and a general breakdown or two every evening. The projection room equipment there, cannot handle the heavy use to which the College community puts it. It may seem frivolous fm us to insist on new movie projection equipment the day a $300 tuition increase is announced, but the persistence of College audiences in the face of the fifth-rate projection of some first-rate films indicates that many will benefit from the kind of investment we suggest. The members of the Lectures and Concoerts Committee, the directors of Film IIaps, and the Doean whose office is just around the corner and up the stairs from the Social Sciences Auditorium are all remiss in not having taken positive steps to shake down th.e College administration for the money needed to put the projection room in order. Several different accottnts contribute a lot of money, as much as $6,000, for the films shown on campus. Those films, and tl1e expenditures they represent, should have first-rate equipment to insure maximum satisfaction to the College audience. PHOTOGRAPHERS--The Intercollegiate Photography Ehibition invites you to participate in a display of meaningful photographic expression. Our theme will be \1970-The Time is NOW!\. This exhibition will bring together into one collection the work of college students in the tri-cities area. It will be held at Albany Law School from April 3 through April I 7, 1970, and the public will be invited to attend. There are no entry or other fees and substantial awards will be given to those exhibits judged best by a panel of professional photographers. If you are concerned and have something to say, why not say it visually at the exhibition? Think about it, then call Phil Tulimieri at (5 18) 489-7318 or Bob Estes at (5 18) 273-0339 evenings for details. There will be an All College Mixer at ~Skidmore's Father's Hall on the Old Campus, on November 8, from 8-I 2 p.m. Admission is $1. There will be an open house Wednesday, November 5 at 3:30 p.m. in Social Sciences Building, Faculty Lounge (Student-Faculty Open House). BLITHER Any sophomore interested in applying for the position of Assistant Chairman of Freshman Orientation may obtain an application in the Dean of Student's Office in Old Gym Hall. If there are any questions, please contact Jim Kadamus at Delta Chi--346-9973. All applications should be returned to the Dean of Student's Office by Friday, December 5. The Outing Club will be taking a one day hike in the A dirondaks on Sunday, November 8. Plans for the trip will be made at a meeting on Wednesday, at 4:30 p.m. in Hale House. Sonny and Cher will apear in concert at the R.P.l. Field House on Friday, November 14 at 8:30p.m. as part of the R.P.I. R.O.T.C. Weedend. KING'S ATLANTIC SERVICE STATION 717 Nott Street We Cater To Union Students 10~ Service Discount NOVEMBER 4, 1969 Photo By WILLIAM OUZER Tony Berk and Phil Robinson will open, ,the I 969-70 season of the North End coffeehouse this Friday evening at 8:30. Admission is $1. The coffeehouse, located in Bronner House at the north end of North College, presents folk, jazz and avant-garde performers. Anyone interested in joining the Student Wives' Association should contact Kathy Calabrese. DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room ... Opp. Th• Brownell Gate on Nott Streett Open Daily 10 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to 1 A.M. PROFESSIONAL TYPING SERVICE. IBM Selectric typewriter. Equipped with Gl'eek and Math symbols. Your choice of type style. Experienced in thesis typing. Pick up and delivery. Call 489-6978 any time. ~l~. ':. . {' '' •'!' ~~. ,\ ;· / , .. ) (, PAGE: JEA ranked Times a l ., . raconte1 radio\ but to would 1 ) . ) ' ,. J ' ft,. Heming· thing h Ma1·k T and fo diversifi Besi< fanatica audienc Broadw hosted condu seminar and tau in med NewYc She1 time WI novel, ' Others I best-sel which ''Daphr Tinfoil Gertz Crappie magaz Playbo~ Au tom Hoi In a numbe1 and bri those prelimi Gatesrr as soc Admi~ formin recruit1 The Sh ) ,, $3 .) J • ' •' Dr Shan, profe1 engi n awarde the Found of mat describ very turbu applica re-ent supers< Th' ann om Pari1 Con~ Contir. said th by M; units' con tin laid d Han db the ab: by ali' Ma blame ''misu he WOl pari eta reportc

1969 '\' UZER Phil , ,the North 1 riday don is •cated the >liege, and d in Wives' >ntact me in Our Room A.M. A.M. AL [CE. r 1 c >ped !lath oice rl e. 1esis and all ) (, PAGE 3 JEAN SHEPHERD, ranked by the New Yotk Times as \one of the greatest J ,, . raconteurs in the history of radio\ is paid to be funny, Shep: Man For All Seasons?. but to label him a comedian screenplays and Tennessee decidely non highbrow. The would be like calling Ernest Williams· agent hamlles his s h or t , b u II -necked , Hemingway a typist. For one plays .. ln progress in an army ex-steelworker from thing his humor is closer to novel, and a not-entirely- Hammond, Indiana, petforms Mark Twain than Las Vegas, humorous study of psychotic in open-necked shirts and and for another, he~s too letters written .anonymously loud checked sport jackets ll · diversified. to his radio station. out of \Guys and Dolls\ and Besides broadcasting to a A ht:!morist, then? A talks baseball as much as fanatically loyal WOR radio latter-day Will Rogers? No. politics. audience, he has acted for The ·Oklahoma wit once said, FEW HUMORISTS can Broadway and Hollywood, \I never met a man I didn't observe and recall detail with hosted his own TV show, like,\ wllich sounds like a such precision. And few have conducted University statement from one of the hisrange: ) · seminars on humor and satire, mealy-rnou thed Reader's It is this gift of eye and and taught a graduate course Digest addicts that Shepherd ear, this devotion to the in media communications at so often satirizes. tangible, that make Shepherd New York University. AND SATIRE is so valuable. In a mind-blown, Shepherd spends more Shepherdsl forte, according psychedelic age, with time writing than talking. His to the English professors who ever-increasing emphasis on novel, \In God We Trust, AU edit Satyr. the UCLA humor the subjective, Shepherd ) . ~· Others Pay Cash,\ was a 1967 magazine: remains the empirical man. best-seller. His short stories, \In a country where \No he maintains which bear titles like mildly funny, superficial privately, .. 1 don't run out to \Daphne Bigelow and the routines are acclaimed as Route 22 with a notebook or Tinfoil Noose\ and \Hairy piercing satire, Shepherd is a sit up nights to study corny Gertz and the Forty-Seven unique phenomenon: a social TV commercials (where the Crappies\ have appeared in critic in the mass medium.\ \typical American mother\ fetch any newspaper except the New York Times\). I guess i just see things most people overlook\ Yes, but it takes more than just sharp eyes. It takes what Shepherd at one point in his act called \a warm outgushing of love for Dairy Queens.\ A satirist of the vulgar and superficial in America, he also loves it a little, too. \You know the obscene sign one angry motorist makes to another with hls finger?\ Shepherd said. \It's really an American art form, executed with the same skill and beauty of a Balinese dance. And it's subtle. Only an American can understand it.\ so OF COURSE' he's not completely the NOVEMBER 4, 1969 proletarian comic he pretends. And he does not shirk profl:lndity. TV's preparation H commercial, in which the announcer-looking like \a vaguely defrocked minister\- reaches for a leatherbmmd volume entitled ''Medical Proof'' demonstrates the \American reverence for books as objects in themselves.\ \And just what itch does Preparation H relieve?\ S h e ph e r d asked h i s audience.\Is it the cosmic itch of Captain Ahab?\ At that point, Shepherd, fists clenched and eyes rolling, resembled Melville's mad whaling captain. He's an expert showman. YET THE WORD '\SHOWMAN\ would be as limiting as \comedian.\ For Shephers's sense of timing, his physical embellishments, seem to come not from practice but an intense involvement with his subject material. , \ magazines as diverse as But if Shepherd, the always carries a $1,200 ~~r~~~bil~~~::;~;:~~e, and ~~d~~i~-h~;;,~~i~!t h:i: ~ci1~!·~ 3 :nd r:hemra:U~n;:; Maitland Sets New England Hollywood uses his appearance and manner are looks so wise, \he'd never · \ Gatesmen Plcm Recruiting Drive !n!~dfr~!~~ In Garnet Loss J ' fl,. ~ I ) ,, ,) J . ' ·J .. •' In an effort to enlarge the number of final applications and bring personal contact to those who have filed preliminary applications, the Gatesmen, an organization associated with the Admissions Office, are forming a committee of recruiters. The Gatesmen, who give by STUART NESLIN tours to campus visitors and prespective applicants, are seeking interested students to contact, .during the Christmas vacation, those in their local area who have filed preliminary applications to Union. Duties of the recruiters would include answering questions about the College Shanebrook Awarded $35,000 NSF Grant Dr. J. Richard Shanebrook, associate professor of mechanical engineering, has been awarded a research grant by t h e N a t i o n a l Science Foundation for development of mathematical equations to describe the aerodynamics of very high speed air turbulence, particularly applicable to space capsule re-entry and the new supersonic jet transports. The $35,400 grant, announced by NSF executive Parietal Violation Concerns Malloy Continued from page 1 said that until he was notified by Malloy's office of each units' parietals, he would continue following the rules laid down in the Student Handbook to be observed, in the absence of parietals voted by a living unit. Malloy later assumed blame for this and called it a ''misunderstanding\ saying he would notify Kleinkauf of parietal hours as living units reported them to him. associate director Louis Levin, is for research on the s u b j e c t '\three-dimensional turbulent compressible boundary layers.\ 1965 Ph.d Dr. Shanebrook, a member of the faculty since 1965, received his doctorate from Syracuse. The subject of his dissertation, relating to the mathematics of another aspect of high-speed air turbulence, led to an NSF grant in 1967 for further work at Union. The current research project is expected to take about two years to complete. Pennel Esso Service Nott Street Corner Of Van Vranken and giving a short presentation about some of the features of Union's programs. This could include information about the trimester system or the Comp. Ed. program. Necessary scheduling and arragnements will be made by the Gatesmen and the Admissions Office. Arrangements would be made for the recruiters to visit local high schools to talk with interested juniors. The committee will have a few orientation meetings prior to the Christmas vacation, with briefings by Admissions officers. Anyone interested should attend a brief meeting on Thursday, at 4:30, in SS 016. Those who cannot attend this meeting should leave their name, college phone number, and home address, in the Admissions Office prior to Friday. around left end. Maitland added the final socre for Williams with I :32 left in the half, sweeping five yards around his left end into the end zone. The first-half statistics showed graphically to what degree the Ephmen controlled the contest. At the intermission, Williams had rolled up 238 yards on the ground, 1 20 courtesy of Maitland, and had driven for 15 first downs. The pop-gun Garnet offense, on the other hand, rushed for -7 yards and completed 3 of 12 passes for only 43 yards, all three completions corning on a brief Ken Pearce to Pup Gould flurry in the waning seconds of the half. The second half was in the main an exercise in collective mediorrity, as the Ephmen .-------=z=-==E=-::L=--=L=-=M=-==E-=R--=-::'S::---cN=-=-=o-=R,..--;::G==E::;----- LAUNDRY AND CLEANING VILLAGE AT 1559 VAN VRANKEN AVE. lot Hottie Street! DRY CLEANING 8 Lbs .... __ . ____ . $2.00 4 lb, Min. ________ $1.00 DRYERS lOMin. ---·--·--·- 10 WASHERS I 2 lb. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ . 30 20 lb. - -- -- ----- - . 35 3 0 Lb. _ .. _ .•.• _ • _ . 50 Open Mon.-Fri. 8 A.M. to 9 P.M.· Sat. 8 A.M. to 5 P.M. Closed Sundays IF YOU HAVE NEYER HAD NORGE DRY CLEANING DONE WE CAN BET YOU WILL BE AMAZm DOUGLAS Schenectady's l.eading Men's Shoe Store BOSTONIAN* BATES* WALL-STREETER HUSH PUPPIES *WALK-OVER * SEBAG,Q-MOCS MANSFIELD* SNOW & AFTER SKI BOOTS Phone FR 4-8577 319 State Street Schenectady, N.Y. $1 OFF PURCHASE OF SHOES UPON PRESENTATION OF I. D. CARD substituted freely and the Dutchmen tried desperately to get some points on the scoreboard. Soon, however, the frustrated Garnet gave up that foolish venture, as the Williams defense continued to stymie the Union thmst both on the ground and in the air. The corwd eventually tired of the football game, too, filing out of the stands before the game was hardly three-quarters old. SEA KING \DV\ -17 jewels. Au· tomatlc. Water resistant. $75.00 Great things come in Bulova packages

PAGE 4 NOVEMBER 4, 1969 -~-------------------------------------------------~-~----~ .•• •l Ephmen Demolish Grid; Maitland Leads 34-0 Rout Harriers Run Well in States By MARK SHUGOLL & GREG HAMLINE Hoping for a finish among o v e r o n e h u n d r e d By BILL HOLLERAN the top eight teams, the competitors. The fifth-place The Garnet football team The Ephmen wasted no union College Varsity finish represented the best climbed to dizzying new time in scoring, recovering a Cross-Country team ran a performance by a Union heights of offensive and surprise on-side opening strong fifth in the sixteen College team in state defensive ineptitude at kickoff and marching 40 field New York State competition since 1958, Williams College on Saturday, yards for the touchdown. Championships held last when the Garnet runners ran was Pat Murphy, who came down from varsity competition to run in the meet. He finished fourth, only eleven seconds off the pace. Bill Jacobs (6th) and Mark Burdelle (7th) were the other Union runners to break II •. ., ., as the Ephmen stamped the Maitland and fullback Dave Saturday at State University third. State University Dtuchrnen out of Weston Kubie reeled off gain after 0 f N e w y 0 r k a t College at Buffalo copped the Field, 34-0. lB. stumbling to gain, particularly against the Binghampton. The harriers team title. ~ into the top ten. their fifth defeat in seven weak Garnet left side, until thus added another highlight The Garnet runners will contests, the Garnet could Kubie hoofed the fmal three to an alreaqy successful travel to New Ymk City on muster only 145 yards total yards up the middle for the season that saw them equal November 17, to take part in Five Frosh Comoete Five freshmen will compete in the IC4A Cross-Country Champ- ionships on the 15th. They )J .• offense, while yielding 385 tally. After Dave Curtin's the win output by Garnet the I.C.4A. Championships, yards on defense-all of it on placement sailed through the Cross-Country teams over the in Van Cortland Park. A the ground. uprights, the Ephmen were last ten years. The 1969 strong 49-team field is Williams may lack a on top to stay, 7-0, with only harriers boasted a five win, expected for the meet, will be Tim McCabe, Jim ~ , Histon, Mark Slavin, and Murphy, all of whom have balanced attack, but with 4:08 gone in the contest. two loss record. The last including Lehigh, Lafeyette, senior left-halfback Jack The Garnet defensive winning Union Cross-Country and Bates. Maitland on their side, they corps quickly wilted in the team had been in 1958. '73 Places Second run varsity during the regular season. and Bill Jacobs, who starred in freshman competition. really don't need one. The face of the awesome Williams Strong Garnet Showing The freshmen harriers ran 6'-2\ 206 pound co-captain ground attack, and the Bryant Moeckel led all to a 2nd place fmish in the Graubart & Sons of the Ephmen treated the Ephmen marched up and Garnet fmishers at Harpur as New York State Freshmen may run small ads, fans to some of the finest down the field virtually he crossed the finish-line cross-Country Champ- but they have power-running ever seen in unmolested, rolling to a 34-0 sixteenth. Joe Burgess, ionships held Saturday at big values. Eastern small-college football, halftime \edge.\ Kubie twenty-sixth in the states last Harpur. Only three teams ~ muscling his way through the scored his second touchdown y e a r , m 0 v e d u p t 0 entered the meet ·· RPI, the ' _ Garnet defenders for 178 of the afternoon early in the twenty-fourth in this year's University of Buffalo, and yards on 42 carries. second quarter on another 20th ann u a 1 state Union. The Garnet .compiled Schenectady's famous MaitlandSetsRecord three-yard burst, and Championship Meet. Paul a score of46 compared with diamond shop, M a i t I a n d ' s fine Quarterback Terry Smith Forbes ran thirtieth for the Engineer's 23 and the u. for three generations) performance on Saturday tallied twice on a one-yard Union, while Tim McCabe of B's 57. 166 Joy St. broke the New England sneak and a five-yadrd sc~mpe 3 r placed forty-sixth, out of Top runner for the frosh Threey~an .~raduates career rushing record of Continue on L age m am• y. 2,662 yards set by Dick ~ •,.. _. • r _. •,.. A • Jll\ A • ,. _. •,. A •,. A •,. .. • f\ ~ • ,. AI • r,. • \' .. •,. A • I\ A • I\ A •,.., • Jll\ ... •,.. ... •,..., • ,. ., • r ... •,.. ... • ,. .d • \\'i Nocera of Southern ~ ~ ,, -:.,.' Connecticut in 1964-66. ~ e Maitland has 2,751 yards to ~ ~ ,> his credit with two games to -, • ; 0 ~0sh Gridders ~ Is ''b. ess'' L . Top Engineers .. :. __ • • The freshmen football team rolled to an 18-point halftime margin and then held on to defeat the yearlings of RPI, Friday afternoon, 31-24. I oodforbeer? r· • ~ t) ~ ., ., .. ~ VOL. 99 5~ Over came Wedncsd cheer an a man r father l them ab The Garnet jumped out to an early lead on Mike Hogan's 4-yard touchdown toss to Stan White. Bob Mitchell added the point to make the score 7-0, Union. On their next offensive series the Dutchmen scored again on a pass play, this time to Doug Jansen. Following the Garnet score, the Engineer yearlings tallied on a 6-yard scoring pass. The alert Garnet defenders, however, blew in to block the conversion attempt. ~ It's all a matter of being \big\ in the right places. • ~ ~ ., For instance, the Genesee Brewing Company has • ~ the biggest lauter tub in the world ... a sort of ~ .J ~ ~ • super-filter that takes the bitterness out of the beer. ~ Jean center l has gw program 1 York Ci PLAYB( best-sell We Tru Cash\. Garnet Roar Back The Dutchmen came right back, however, tallying on a Hogan to Curtis Rowe aerial and a 22-yard field goal by Mitchell. The half ended with Union on top, 24-6. The Garnet fmished its scoring early in the third qu.arter, racing to a 31-6 lead on a 70-yard bomb thrown by Dave Rearic to Jansen. RPI, however, came alive in the later stages of the game, and only a superlative effort on the part of the Garnet defense could preserve the second yearling victory in four starts. ., . ~ That's good! ~ ~ . ~ ~ ~ Genesee also has the biggest blending tank in the ~ 1) . ~ world ... a tank that can blend more than ~ ~ 4,000,000 glasses of Genesee at once to \\\ ~ ~ make sure you get that same great taste ~ ~ glass after glass. That's good! ~ ,, ~ ~ ~ ~ It's this being big where it counts that ~ ~~ · ~ ~ ~ makes Genesee a little more exciting ~ ., ~ ~ than any other beer. ~ \ , ~ ~ . ~ ~ . ) ~ We'll do anything to bring· you better beer ~ ~ GBCO, Rochester, N.Y. ~ . .. ., . ., . .. ~ . ~ ...~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~ Shep his ded knows : and 1 h a 1 f self-dec1 protect \The any so what i! not...Wl real vesl Shep satirist singleha the hun c ffect three-fc body laughed applau exhaust a half Memori \Ou found • 150 ye: sit i r pond plumbe .Jive in

1969 came si ty the the and the break will . •• •l II •. ., ., >' • They Jim and have , who ....... ., ~ • ~ ., ,, -:.,.' VOL. 99, NO. 17 Fou.nded at Union College 1877 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, NOVEMBER 7,1969 PRICE TWENTY CENTS Pass-Fail Goes To CA C Kessler Urges Swift Action Don Kessler, President of the Student Senate, met with the Curricular Affairs Committee Wednesday to explain the pass-fail proposal recently approved by the Senate and a student body poll. Kessler called on the Committee to act on the proposal as quickly as possible. He said he recognized that there would be students who would abuse pass-fail but that having By RICHARD E. PATIERSEN, JR. weighed the proposal, he felt '\its advantages far outweigh its disadvantages.\ Goucher Report In his presentation to the Committee Kessler cited the report of a student-faculty committee which evaluated a pass-fail system, similar to the one proposed here, in operation at Goucher College in Baltimore. The Goucher Committee reported that 30% of the students who took courses on pass-fail said they would not have taken the courses on a grade system. 72% of the students said they enjoyed the courses more than others taken on a graded system, and 87% felt \more relaxed academically.\ 59% reported that they felt they were able to \emphasize learning for its own sake.\ Link to Twelve Point ~ I) SHEP Division II Faculty Kills Bid For Comps Suspension Kessler said there was a \'great feeling on the part of the faculty to consider pass-fail in conjunction with the proposed twelve point grading system. He said this meant delaying implementation of the pass-fail proposal, and urged that unless both can be considered before the end of this term, they be dealt with separately. He said he hoped pass-fail could be in operation by next term. • photo By CHARLES LONG ~ • ~ • Shepherd Wows! By NEIL S. KRAMER The Social Sciences faculty voted overwhelmingly Tuesday to reject the recommendations of a Division-wide. student-faculty committee on the senior year that major field examinations be suspended this year. favor of \suspending the comprehensive requirement for this year.\ ~ ;) . • ., .. • ~ 11 '· • ~ • t) ~ • Over 1200 Union students came out in. the rain Wednesday night to laugh and cheer and most of all listen to a man old enough to be the father of any of them tell them about life. ~ • ~ • •J ., Jean Shepherd is the center of a sincere cult that has grown out of his radio programs on WUR in New 1 · York City, his short stories in PLAYBOY, and his 1967 best-selling novel, \In God We Trust, All 0 thers Pay Cash\ . ~ • ~ • ~ • 1) . ., ~ • ~ • ., ~ • ~ ,, ~ • ., ~ • If • ., .. • ~ II ' • ~ . •) ~ • ~ ., . • ~ ... Shepherd's appeal rests in his dedication to what he knows and sees for himself. and not the myths, half-truths, and self-deceptions men use to protect their egos . \The major problem in any society is to separate what is real from what is not...Why, I haven't seen a real vestal virgin in years.\ Shepherd is more than a satirist or humarist, he gives a singlehanded performance on the human condition. And so c ffectively that about three-fourths .of the student body at Union College laughed and cheered and applauded themselves to exhaustion during a two and a half hour convocation at Memorial Chapel. \Our Greek myths can be found in our commercials ... 150 years from now guys will sit in cloistered studies pondering the lady plumber ... How many people Hve in houses where they can afford to call a plumber when you've got tea bag stains in the sink?\ Shepherd never spares his audience: \Instinctively our intellectual pride tells us we don't like commercials, but Continued on page 4 The student-faculty committee had voted 7-1 in Buses To Washington DC Leave Hera On Thursday Plans for local observence of the two-day National Moratorium Against the War in Viet Nam were announced by the Social Action Committee yesterday. Barry Katzman, president of the organization, has outlined a full day's program for this Thursday prior to the departure of Union Students attending the rally in Washington. Thursday's activities will begin at 1 2:00 noon in Veteran's Memorial Park with a one hour vigil and reading of local war dead. The vigil is part of a weekly protest sponsored by the Schenectady Area C'lergy and Laymen Concerned about VietNam. At 4:30 P.M. the highly acclaimed film Viet Nam Dialogue featuring David Schoenbrun will be shown free in SS 016. The film will be repeated at 7:00 immediately followed by a Faculty Forum at 7:30 in Library Plaza. The evening's activities will reach a climax with a Peace Rally at 9:00 P.M. in the Library Court Yard, followed by the departure of the busses for Washington at 1 0:30. Dialogue In addition to Thursday's acttvities on campus, the committee is working with local high schools in ·order to create a community dialogue about the war. It was strongly emphasized by Katzman that help is needed by Union students in this endeavor. It is also requested that Union Students wear black armbands of mourning on Continued on page 3 The Division members voted overwhelmingly against that committee report, rejecting it 3-18 with four abstentions. Several of those who abstained did so because they felt that the role of students on academic committees had not been properly defined. Not Invited The student members of the committee had not been invited to the Division meeting and were not in attendence. Division chairman Neal W. Allen had memorialized the Social Sciences faculty to reaffirm their support of the \basic idea of a major field examination. \lf we accept and adopt this committee report,\ Prof. Allen wrote, \there is a real danger that it will be difficult or impossible to re-introduce any form of major examination that would be of significant educational value. By moving towatd temporary abolition I th.ink we have been prematurely pushed in the direction of an extreme solution.\ Faculty Vote The Division faculty voted 19-l with one abstention in favor of a proposal that substantially embodied Prof. Allen's sentiments on major field exams. Continued on page 3 Some faculty members on the committee raised the questions as to why professors would not be informed which students in their courses are on pass-fail. Kessler said he feared that a few professors also might take advantage of the system and not be as critical of student work nor as eager to devote time to helping a student on pass-fail. Student Poll Kessler also gave the committee the final results of the student body poll on pass-fail. Of 1635 students 1381 . voted. 1283 voted in favor; 57 voted against: 41 abstained. Kessler noted that this vote was further iJ1d ication that all pains should be taken to implement the policy as soon as possible. The pass-fail proposal would allow a student to take two courses per year outside his major on a pass-fail basis. It was further felt by the Curricular Affairs Committee that major field examinations and all other courses required for graduation be exempt from pass-fail.

PAGE2 NOVEMBER .7, 1969 Resignation To the Editor: letters 'To ·The Ed i-t or . reported, so that th.e game~ could have been seen in its proper perspe,ctive. Mr. Holleran's statement that \the frustrated Garn.et soon' gave up that foolish venture (trying to score)\ is an inexcusable bit of. editorializing and an out and out lie. This is a letter of • ... resignation. The decision reached the Social Sciences' faculty in Monday's divisional meeting is its cause, and what here follows are_ its reasons. As a senior and a member of the \Committee on the Senior Year\ which recommended the temporary suspension of compreshesive examinations, I fmd myself somewhat confused and thoroughly disappointed by the division's action. The defeat of the proposal was so resounding that it raises q u e s t i on s as to that committee's purpose, and the amount of confidence invested in such a student-faculty endeavor. changed all that, and did so decisively .. The proposal was not narrowly defeated. It was crushed. A sentiment which found only one dissenter among the members of a c ornrhi t tee established e xp re ssly to advise the division, enjoyed no further support there. The comm1ttee then, has become an ineffectual joke, and. membership thereon, ![ ud1crous. My resignation h.ere, is to record my personal ·displeasure that the efforts and time expended by all those on the committee have been so wasted, and because I look for little else of obvious student benefit to emerge from such a body if it is to be ignored by its own founders. David G. lehu Poor Coverage To the Editor: My purpose in writing is not to comment on what was said in Bill Holleran's report of th·e Union-Williams football game, but on what was not said. The statistics themselves are an indication of the relative effectiveness of A temporary abolition of the major field exams appeared, to seven out of the eight members of the committee, to be the most sa tisfoactory measure we could support that would fulfill the obligation we felt to the present seniors. They .deserved to know, and soon, what this year's policy would be. Since we had made little headway in discussions of camps, and since no member -of the committee advocated the retention of the present system in its entirety, we suggested that until a suitable arrangement could be agreed upon, there should be no comps at all. Coffee House Auswers: After The Skellar, What? The division of course , You say you're trying to find a nice, quiet place to s.now this beautiful blonde on your first date, and the best you can do is the Rathskellar? You take her there and then you can't get through to her because the only thing throbbing in the place is the box in the corner, and your sign language isn't so good? And when it finally stops, you take her over· to the piano to play for her, find just when the tears ·are corning to her eyes, some fool butts in to get change for the pinball machine? And when \ Those u ·,Jy 0 nz a k e peace f u 1 reP o 1 u t i o 11 i 1lt p o s s i b l e m a k e viole11t reuol~At ion iuetJitable.\ Published Tuesday and Friday durijlg the Union College ·academic year by the Studen-t: Bpdy of Union College. Schenectady. New York .•. Published Thursdays during the Upward Bound Project by Upward Bound students In residence at Union College_ NaPonal Advertising Representative: Nationa.l Educational Advertising Service. Inc .• Co·llege Publishers Repr~sentative. 360 Lexington Avenue, N.Y.C. Editorial Office. Old Gym, Union College, Publication Offict>, Whitehurst Printing & Binding Co.. [nc., 416-418 Fifth Ave .• Troy, 235-4450. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20c a copy: $6 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. NEILS. KRAMER Erl itm·in-Ciz ief HENRY FEIN .......................... ................ Managing Editor CARL S. GOLDSANDa.n!l JEFF BIRN Business Managers WILLIAM OUZER .................................. f:)cecutive Editor PETER J. WEINGOLH .............................. Campus Editor RICHARD E. PATTERSON, JR. ........ Contrilmting Editor BILL HOLLERAN ........ ................................ Sports Editor JODY SASLOW ................................. Photography Editor PAUL ANDREWS ....................................... Editor-at-large ' STAFF- Robert A. l,e--vine, Dannv Shocket David , Uguccioni, L(;mts Snilltoff, Tony Faga. Doug W~ng. M. Grossman, M1ke Gottlieb, .Jvhn Garrigan SPORTS. STAFF- Mark SJur.goll, Greg Hamlin, Mike Humber, Dennis Also/rom .. f»tu Mass. Bruce Garber Hank L~~e ' you get up to kiss her, all of a sudden you're standing in three inches of water from you don't want to know where? Is that your trouble, Union ... ? Well, then, come to the North End Coffeehouse, the northernmost door of North College (Bronner House), Friday night, starting at 9:00. This is where you can talk, listen, sing, play your music, sleep, or make up to your girl in peace. Tony Berk, doing some kind of folk music, and Phil Robinson, playing jazz and popular on his guitar instead of WRUC, will be the organized entertainment. If you think you've got something to show or tell, you can come up in between and make that chick. Since you've got to pay for everything, even quiet, you'll owe a 75 cents donation for that, c.offee, tea, and doughnuts. The next weekends will be bigger, with a full Friday night round of performers and a toll-free \open house\ on Saturdays and Sundays where you can come to work on her some more and listen to recorded folk and jazz without all that bass and no treble or melody. ~---------------------- MIDTOWN BARBER SHOP All Haircllls donE: by Appoint· ment from Tues. thru Fri. Ap- pointments not necessary Sot. 515 UNION ST. 3774010 Phone 372jl528 PARK PIZZERIA ltafian Grinders Our Specialty Behind Davidson Hall_ One Block fro\' the Campus 25 Park Place Schenectady, N.Y. the two squads, but Bill Holleran's opinionated rep orting hardly does justice to his fellow classmates. llis reporting 'leaves out, am ong other things, the maximum effort of the participants; their frustration, ancl their pain. He neglected to report that Steve Bauer sustained a broden leg and that Skip Lynch suffered an injmed knee in this game. He neglected to report the lack of <lepth and the shuffling on the defense which has placed people in totally new positions. These facts don't change the outcome of the game, but they should have been Speaking only for .myself, I feel ·that Concorcly owes' Union's athletes in particular and its readers, in general:, th~ expenditure of a minimum of. effort in ascertaining all of the pertinent sides of an event. It is easy to look at the sixty minutes of .a game, but· the real story goes fu deeper than that. Is ii not the duty of a campus ~ewspaper to attempt· to understand why a team wins or Joses, not merely the fact that it does or does not? ~ Thank you, Ed Young When yo-u know it's for keeps All your sharing, all yollr special memories have grown into a precioms aj:ld enduring love. Happily, these cherished moments will be forever symbolized by your diamond engagement ring. If the name, Keepsake is in the ring and on the tag. you are assured of fine quality and lasting satisfaction. The engagement diamond is flawless, of superb color, and precise modern cut. Your Keepsake Jeweler has a choice selection of many lovely styles. He's listed in the yellow pages under \Jewelers.\ ~J.28Eake® DIAMOND RINGS ~---------- ' --- _r-1 HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEOOING l: Please send new 20 page booklet, ''How To Plan Your Engagement an<! Wedding\ I . fh'd bew ![ 1 P~e, full C'?lo~ folder. both for only 25e. Also, how c:·an 1 obtain e eaut1 u page Br1de 5 Keepsake Book at half price? f.6' I Ntnlt•--------------------------- 1 J: Addr•\·------------------'------- 1: Ci•w~·-------------- Co.--------- 1 !tote ZiP·------ 1 KEEPSAKE DIAMOND RINGS, BOX 90, SYRACUSE, NEW YORK 13201 ~---------------~----------~~---~ - I• •,h' ' ·~' · .... · di' of av1 thl Ca Ex Hu of ha~ an: col th:: ct stu agr stu the sue sch be) pn im) \P1 wi apr ins1 get thu OWi cor dif are WO he wo the agr Bri Co, Tl Ar bu at Of be inc Cc thi tri] th< bei stu Un de Th ear pu Tu Ac th€ No Pn ex< apJ fro 10- $1,

'1969 game' in its Mr. that, t soon is an t 0 f. and owes' the of. all of of an at the but deeper of a team ely the es not? you, Young be in The and y in rl Wedding\ I obtain • f-6t 13201 ___ ~ ' .. \ .... : ·. -·~. ,. ' .NOVEMBER 7, 1969 Cross-Registration Spreads Courses Through 9 CoUeges Greater flexibil.i:ty and diversi.fication in course offerings will: now be available to Union students through cross-registration at Capital District Colleges. Robert M. Briber, Executive Director of the Hudson-Mohawk Association of Colleges and Universities has announced an agreement among the nine private colleges of the Association that will permit unlimited cross- registration of students. Effect.ive immediately, the agreement allows qualified students, with permission of their institutions, to take subjects not offered at their schools at no additional cost beyond their normal tuition. \The agreement is both of practical and symbolic importance,\ Mr. Briber said. \Practically many students will be able to find appropriate courses at other institutions which they can't get at their own college and thus they can strengthen their own educations.\ Scheduling problems and commuting are at least as difficult for students as they are for working men and women, Mr. Briber said, but he was confident that many would find ways to overcome these hurdles .. \Symbolically the agreement is important,\ Mr. Briber continued, \because it Moratorium Plans Set Continued from Page I Thursday and Friday. Armbands, buttons, and bumper stickers will be sold at the Student Activ<ities Office all week. Profits will be used to subsidize losses incurred by the Social Action Committee, charging only thirteen dollars for the bus trip to Washinggton. Space Held Katzman went on to say that space on the buses is still being held for interested students. The buses, serving Union and Skidmore, will depart from campus Thursday evening and return early Sunday. Tickets may be purchased on Monday and Tuesday Only in the Student Activities Office. The committee's plans for the moratorium conclude on November 22 with the Mason Proffit Peace Concert. This exciting Chicago group will appear in Memorial Chapel from 7-9 p.m. and from 10-12 p.m. Tickets will cost $1.50 per person. demonstrates the willingness of these colleges to cooperate. We can look forward to c onperativ<e planning of courses which bu.ild upon the very real strengths of the area colleges. \We can look forward to specialization and greater levels of competence, as colleges in time will find they can build upon a broader base of student interest and ·can focus their offerings more sharply. \We can look forward to cooperation in many other areas as well,\ the director concluded, \which will certainly strengthen all our Open Letter: institutions.\ T;hJ. e Hudson-Mohawk Association is wrnprised of Albwy College of Pharmacy, Albany Law School, Albany Medical College, The College of Saint Rose, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, RusseH Sage College, .Siena College, Skidmore College and Union College. Cross-registration is being handled through the Registrar's office of the associated institutions and students are encouraged to seek further information from that office, at their home institution. • Tuition Excelsior? To The Trustees: Upon completion of third term registration in the school year 1967-68, I had paid Union College $1800, for the privelege of going to class and receiving any credit that I might earn. For the same privilege in the school yef}r 1968-69, I was asked to pay $2100. By virtue of your recent decision, I will have to pay $2400 in order that I may continue to receive an education. Gentlemen, I call to your attention a 33 1/3% increase. Why do I pay tiution? I pay with the expectation of receiving a service · a quality service at that. You tell me that operating costs have risen (33 1/3%?). You tell me that you are only bringing Union into line with charges at comparable institutions. (comaprable in what? certainly not facilities!). You tell me that some of the increase I must pay will go towards financial aid funds (where fraud and deception in answering questions of \need\ are so blaniant as to make a joke of financial assistance in many cases). The implementation of your decision will make a bad joke of any attempt at financial planning by many middle income families. Given the precendent of a $600 increase in tuition every three years, it is possible that you may make Union College a place for either the very rich or the very poor. Perhaps it would be wise to warn students for the Class of 1975 that they may very well have to pay $3000 by the time they are seniors. Perhaps it would not be so wise, only honest. WHliam M. Wicker Fall Weekend To Feature The Flock Saturday Night The Flock. Seven. \ ... a subtle fusion of sounds drawn from the bedrock of blues, jazz, rock, country, and many other sources\ .. The liner on the back cover is by John Mayall. He amply praises The Flock\ .. .! got close to going berserk over their prodigious and varied musical talent, as a whole and individually.\ For what it's worth, I agree. The main focal point of the group is Jerry Goodman, the electric voilinist (his picture on the back cover of the album is him assuming an animalistic pose · great · just thought I'd tell you that), who is an amazing music ian. There is also guitarist, Fred Glickstein, who is the lead vocalist, a drummer, 2 tenor saxes, and a trumpet, all fine musicians. There are six cuts on their album. The works aren't the best 1 've ever heard (definitely not the best) but the music is phenomenal basically, the instrumentals on all cuts are improvisa· tiona!, and if some parts arc not, they are readily adaptable to such. There isn't much else that I can say, except ·that I will review their album next issue and this is a super-straight (the word \straight\ is an extremely poor word to use because it implies some sort of categorization and suggestive property -boo) article, so all you conformists read. PAGE 3 Review: Mounties Bomb By M. PAUL ANDREWS When last we left the Mountebanks boys, the future looked bleak. They had been left stranded in a world of absurdity, without hope or meaning, and they were l'osing touch with reality fast. But suddenly there arose a glimmer of hope. 1 t appeared as if the Mountebanks boys might be \Saved\ by Edward. Perhaps, it appeared, Nott Memorial theatre might once again become round instead of absurd, and the actors might become real people instead of just Mountebanks boys. But after last night's premier performance it appears as though the Montebanks boys have lost their way in the macabre carnival of the absurd. Either Edward Bond's play is just another constribution to the absurd or it is the most subtle satire of the dubious genre ever to be produced on campus. The play is set in the I ov e l·e ss, spiritually void under world of the inner city, infested with street gangs and broken homes. Len, a homeless wanderlust and fanner street-gang member, meets Pam, who brings him home to her parents, Harry and Ma1y. Len falls in love with Pam and moves in as a paying tenant. Pam in turn fa·lls in love with Fred, who is kindred in action if not in spiri:t with Pete, Barry, Mike and Colin, members of a street gang who have a demeaning influence on Fred. Alan Pietzykowski as Len, Steve Glanzrock as Fred and Elaine Danas as Mary give performances which begin strong but weaken as the play continues. Lora Lee Engelmann as Mary provides the most distinctive performance in the play as the humorously bitchy Mary. Her role is not a major one, but Miss Engelmann gives a consistently effective, solid characterization. Being what it is, however, the play detracts from the effectiveness of all the characterizations. Through most of the production, and at the end, one has the empty feeling of deja vu. No-Comps Proposal Loses Continued From Page I THE MOTION It is proposed that the Division of Sociaf. Sciences reaffirm far the year I <J6 <J- 70 the principle of major field examinations for seniors in this Division, and that departments should include such an examination in their schedules far this year. It is further proposed that the examinations may be given at such time that they may be repeated if necessary before graduation, and that department chairmen, in consultation with the Dean of the Center and the chairman of the D iv is i o n , s h o u l d consider possible changes in the nature of the examinations. Decision Sought The Division's committee on the senior year, through its chairman, Manfred Jonas, indicated that they had sought an immediate decision for this year. The key fact that colored the committee's deliberations was the requirement of final examinations in spring term L\-- -.ll N>niors. Jonas Decision Sought The Division's committee on the senior year, through its chairman, Manfred Jonas, indicated that they had sought an immediate decision for this year. The key fact that colored the committee's deliberations was the requirement of final examinations in spring term courses for all seniors, Jonas said. Members of the Divisional committee were; Prof. Jonas, James Underwood, David Rheubottom, and Peter Prosper from the faculty ·and seniors Richard Burstein, David Lehv, Mike Martell, and Joe Furlong. Prof. Allen also participated in some of the meetings. According to Prosper, the \problems are insurmount- able. No one wanted to maintain the status quo,\ yet no aleernative was suitable to both students and faculty members. Explaining his vote in the committee for the suspension of comps this year, Prosper said that the camps must be arranged so that they suit the students and that the details of the administration of the examinations are directly responsible for student bad feeling toward camps. Those details are the \crux of the entire matter,\ he said.

PAGE 4 SHEP photo By CHARLES LONG Forty Girls To Visit Union More than forty high school girls will visit Union on Tuesday, November 11 . Their visit will include attending classes and a discussion with members of the administration. The purpose of the visit is to introduce Union to prospective coeds and also to prepare Union for next year's venture into coeducation. The discussion, schedueled for the afternoon, is to allow DOUGLAS Schenectady's f. caJing Men's Shoe Store BOSTONIAN* BATES* WALL-STREETER HUSH PUPPIES* VVALK-OVER * SEBAG,C-MOCS MANSFIELD *SNOW & AFTER SKI BOOTS Phone F R 4-8577 319 State Street Schenectady, N.Y. $1 OFF PURCHASE OF SHOES UPON PRESENTATION OF I. D. CARD the girls to express what they · would want to find at a school such as Union. Other issues; such as parietals, wiU be discussed. The girls, who are seniors from 18 area shcools, including two private schools, will arrive at 9:30 at Fox Lounge. After attending classes at 10:30, they will be escorted to Hale House for lunch. At 12:30 the girls will be conducted on a tour of the campus conducted by the Gatesmen, and at 2:00 a discussion will take place in the Social Sciences Building, room 115. An informal meeting in the Rathskellar will end the program at 3:30P.M. r------------------------~ t TURN ON AT : t t • THE ROOM UPSTAIRS t t j • ( 482~8664) t I t f - *-GRAND OPENING- *- t • t t Head Shoppe • Boutique 1 . ' t Open 1 to 9 P.M. (Tues. - Sat.), 2 to 6 P.M. (Sun.) f • t I Where Everything's At! I • t I Afro & Indian Gowns Beads, Incense I : Mexican Vests Water Pipes I Mind-Bending Black Light Posters ' t ~ t ' ,, Take Central Ave. 2 lights past Westgate Shopping Center, f f Rt. on No. Allen For 2 blocks and it's on your left above f t Albany Art Gallery! t I - 10% Off With Unioo I. D. Through November - : L-------------------~----~ N@VEMBER 7, 19S9 Shepherd Wows! Continued from page 1 But thqugh .Shepherd is so effective a humorist that he can maintain a peak audience laughter for hours with his stmies and his theatrics -- he moves about the stage with all of the eloquent grace of the former steelworker that he is -- Shepherd never panders to an audience. Asked to comment on Vice President Spiro T. Agnew, who has been the butt of endless jokes for his verbal malapropisms, Shepherd said, \I haven't got anything to say about him because I can't trust what I read about him in the press.\ Vassar Gets 22-Year-Oid Trustee Alison Berstein has just become the youngest trustee in the history of Vassar College. At 22, she's a woman with a keen sense of purpose, a quick sense of humor and a disappointed mother. On the one hand, she is deeple involved with the problems of the campus. On the other, she jokes, \At the age of 26, I'll probably be a has-been.'. At one moment she talks seriously of her ambition to be a college teacher. Then, interrupting herself, she says, \it's kind of a reverse route to be a trustee first and then a teacher.\ Miss Berstein, a native New Yorker, and a summa cum laude graduate from Vassar last June, is a candidate for a doctorate in A m e r i c a n h i s t o ry at Columbia University. Her election to the board of trustees of the fashionable Eastern girls' shool, one of the so-called \Seven. SisterSchools,\ was announced Monday. Miss Bernstein said she was \flabbergasted\ at the news of her selection to serve for 3 1 /2 years to fulfill the unexpired term of a trustee who resigned. Musing on the reasons for her new job, Miss Berstein said: \I w_s active in campus affairs. I worked last year as a kind of mediator between the students and the administration and the trustees. As student body · president, I was responsible (9r articulating student views.\ She said she worked t o end a dispute last year over the continuation of an urban studies program. \All that was needed was to get the two sides together.\ A writer, .playwright, and television producer, Shepherd staunchly de£ended Playboy as the leading literary magazine of our times: ••t.;ve written for 21 major magazines and Playboy is the only one that doesn't alter a word of what I write ... Play- boy is not just the center foldout....In the last ro years they've published more major writers than any major magazine in the world.\ Ranked by the New York Times as \one of the greatest raconteurs in the history of radio,\ Shepherd is the only three-time winner of the Playboy Humor/Satire Award. He has been awarded a Rockefeller Foundation grant as an .artist in television. His experiment in existential television, entitled \Rear Bumper\ is being produced by Boston's WGBH television, part of the HalVard-Lowell network. How did she accomplish this? . \Having each of them laugh at their own folly. They thought they were far apart, but they weren't as separated as they thought.\ Discussing student unrest in general, Miss Bernstein said, \Most of the students' sense of helplessness and powerlessness is legitimate. In general, I'm very sympathetic with the aims and ideals espoused by radical students, but I've not yet found it necessary to resort to violence and I don't think I'll ever find that to be the most satisfactory route.\ Miss Berstein said she did not think there should be a student member on the board of trustees, however. \If s good to have a year of perspective.\ New Newsman The appointment of Philip C. Johnson as director of the C allege news bureau, effective immediately, was announced Wednesday by Dr. Harold C. Martin. Johnson, 26, comes to Union from Rhode Island College in Providence where he has been public information officer for the past 2 1/2 years. A former staff writer for the Rochester Times-Union, Johnson is a 1965 graduate of Lake Forest College in Illinois and is completing work for a master's degree in history at the University· of Rhode Island. He succeeds Richard L. Sine who is now news director at Beloit College, in Wisconsin.

4. ~N~O~V~E~M~B~E.:...:_R_:_7~, _:.::m::_:6::9:_' ---~------------------------ ----·-----·- _. PAGE 5 HaUeran Replies • •• Continued from Page 6 explain last Sat~:~rday's 34-0 loss to Williams anel, to a urge extent, the football team~s 2-5 record so far this season. This fact, however, will not change the relationship between athlete, and reporter. No matter what he writes, or how he w:l'ites it--objectively or unobjectively, exciting or dull--the reporter will always be criticized. Athlete--reporter hostility is nothing new in the wol'ld of sports. Notable examples of .such hostility are Ted Williams' long-rurt~1ing feud with the Boston ptess, Vince Lombardi's attitued of the press as a \necessary evil\ and Lew Alcindor's \surly\ attitude towafds the press during his days with UCLA. Athletes resent an outsider, who is usually not connected with the game as a player, ·critcally, and sometimes unobjectively, evaluating their performances in a given game. Reporters do n0t intrinsically hate althletes--they are only students or professionals who try to overcome their own emotions and prejudices. in an attempt to report, objectively an athletiC event. It is difficult task, and the repmier often fails: as evidenced, possible, hy Monday's article on the Williams game. Sportswriters, nonetheless, are placed high upon a pedestal, where .everyone who reads his article can conveniently exercise that little essence of the critic that is invariable present in the human being. They criticize freely, and this unrestrained criticism often leads a reporter to ask himself, \Hall these people are such great writers and critics, why don't they write the articles?\ lt is a similar situation to that of the football player, who after having been beaten into the ground on Saturday afternoon, reads a critical article about the game, and asks himself, \If this guy knows so much about football, why doesn't he come out for the team?\ ·Blither Students interested in taking Biology 52 in the fall of 1970, as well as those currently taking the course - and ail other interested students are invited to attend a series of seminars by students reporting of Independent projects carried out during the tlrree weeks spent at Woods Hole during September. First Seminar- Nov.lO, 1969 4:30P.M. Room 304 Bailey Hall Gary Mineconzo: Adhesion of Female Gametes .of CODIUM FRAGILE R. Gihnan: Environmental effects on Extrusion of Gametes in FUCUS SPIRALIS R. F erraras: Zygote distribution and attachment in Marine Algae ****** G r\id Statistics RUSHING: Yds. Yds. Player Rushes Gd. Loss Net Ave. TDs Rich J aszczak, FE 79 320 -21 299 3.8 2 Joe Kirkup, FB 75 257 -4 253 3.4 1 Larry Sykes, HB 76 232 -45 187 2.5 3 Larry Bloom, HB 28 107 -10 97 3.5 2 Rich Swan, HB 7 53 0 53 7.6 0 Dan Kerkhoff, QB 10 7 -54 -47 -4.7 0 Ken Pearce, QB 28 19 -159 -140 -5.0 0 Union Totals 303 995 -293 702 2.3 8 Opp. Totals 398 1795 -171 1624 4.1 21 PASSING: No. % Had Player Att. Comp. Comp. Yds. Int. TDs Conv. Ken Pearce, QB 199 82 41.2% 1051 14 8 1 Dan Kerkhoff, QB 19 3 15.8% 33 2 0 0 Union Totals 218 85 39.0% 1084 16 8 1 Opp. Totals 117 55 47.0% 534 8 2 1 RECEIVING: Player Caught Yds. Gd. TDs Conv, Rich Swan, HB 29 414 6 1 Dan Gould, E 16 222 0 0 Mike Kumpf, E 23 218 1 0 Rich J aszczak, FB 4 133 1 0 Larry Sykes, HB 5 20 0 0 Larry Bloom, HE 2 16 0 0 Joe Kirkup, FB - 3 32 0 0 Jim Sabella, K 2 20 0 0 Steve Mackenzie, HB 1 9 0 0 Union Totals 85 1084 8 1 Opp. Totals 55 534 2 I Lt11trel And Hardy:SiiUFunny \The Cr.azy World of Laurel and Hardy\ is a compelation of the team's most brilliant slapstick routines. The film chronicles their war with objects, and their attempts to fit intn the scheme of society. Of course, Laurel and Hardy lose, but it is their total defeat that is so beautiful. The movie demonstrates how the two men built upon each situation, employing every object as a prop and an enemy. Each gf!g is extended to its ultimate limit, and then extended even further. Yet every addition is still funny, and they know when to stop. Academy Award After awhile the jokes seem to blend together, but I especially liked the encounter in a saw mill and the ***' ** * There will be an all college mixer at Fathers Hall on the old campus at Skidmore tomorrow night, November 8. Admission is $1.00. The mixers will run from 8p.m. to midnight. ****** State University of New York at Albany students are preparing a third telethon program, a 24-hour event featuring continuous entertainment. [ 1 will run from 7 p.m. on Friday, November 14, until 7 o'clock the next evening. Proceeds from the program will be given to the Albany County Chapter of Big Brothers-Big Sisters of America. ****** The Union College Inter-Fraternity Council, in conjunction with the Schenectady Countyj Salvation Army are sponsoring a canned food drive. The drive, which will begin on Thursday November 6, 1969, is aimed at making the Thanksgiving holiday a happy one forall. The drive will consist of two weeks of door-to-door canvassing byDAN SHOCKET Academy Award winning struggle with piano moving. Perhaps this is because these were the longest excerpts in the film., and the g~oup'.s timing is demonstrated. Along with \The Crazy World of Laurel and Hardy\ are three W.C. Fields shorts. They are of course hilarious. Fields' acid humor is shown in three great vignettes, and thankfully the shorts are shown in their entirety. Go to Sco:tia Art and enjoy yourself. Union Grad,, Now Rutgers Dean, To Speak 1fn Troy Dr. Milton Schwebel, Dean of the Graduate School of Education, Rutgers University will conduct an open forum lecture on Sunday, November 9th at 8 p.m. at the Troy Jewish Community Center. Dr. Schwebel, who has attained national prominence in the field of higher education is a native of Troy and an alurnnue of Union. The author of many published books, articles and papers, he has been a consultant and lecturer at many colleges throughout the United States and is now serving as consultant to the United States Office of Education. Active in faculty and student affairs, Dr. Schwebel ****** throughout Schenectady, in an attempt to collect food for Thanksgiving dinners to be distributed by the Salvation Army. Students, in what is hoped will be a college-wide effort, have been assigned to specific areas of the city, and RA's have been given a list of these assignments. A keg of beer will be given to the living unit which produces the largest weight of food per man in • the living unit. Anyone with any questions concerning the drive should call Burt Yankiver at393-3540. *'***** many years ago advocated student involvement in the business of the university. He has also been a consultant in innovation in higher education. especially for the Union for Experimentation in Higher Education, and is a member of the Advisory Editorial Board of the new magizine called \Change in Higher Education.\ THE FlOCK IS COMING: TICKDS NOW ON SALE THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutn1eots from oil over the world. 406 STATE ST. ~------------------------~ t • t • t Notre . t•t• : t s~1a 1 e, I le filet migpon avec sauce I : aux champignons, ~ 1 t de terre au four ou frites, t t saladverte. t f You know. Our special f t Filet Mignon in Mushroom Sauce f with Baked Potato or French Fries f and Tossed Green Salad. Even f f translated: still $4.25. f t Great steaks and terrific lobsters f aren't the only thing Valle's has f going for it. f t Vive VALLE'S! • : ~~~~~ can be hab;tfonn;ng l t 1259 Central Avenue; Route 5 I (Northway Exit 2 E) 459-9280 t t t • L------------------------J

On Today' s Scene With BILL HOLLERAN This reporter could not help overheariNg two comments the . morning concerning the Author of the article on the Williams football game, which appeared· in Monday's ordy. \He's probably never seen a football game in his life,\ stated, while the other guy commented candidly, \That guy . be put in a garbage can for a week.\ The preceding coa1ments serve ,to illustrate graphically the tion that exists between the press, specifically sportswriters, athletes. The reading public constantly lampoons and knocks · ortswriting jargon and clich'es, and always clamors for · ivity in reporting. Admittedly, the goal of reporting is to ob the situation. This task, however, is nearly llllJV,,l . e. Why is it impossible, or virtuaUy impossible'? Objectivity in reporting is nearly impossible to attain simply because swriters, especially college sportswriters, are human like •v\''\\''\\ else and possess human emotions like everyone else. As student, the team is just as much the reporter's as anyone else's, he gets fed up just like anyone else when he sees his favorite get pushed all over the field. People, especially the athletes involved in the game, easily me upset when they read the report of the game, which may the personal feelings of the sportswriter. But are not supposed to show emotion or their feelings their articles. They are only to cheerfully and \objectively\ ort the game. Thus the battle cry rises slowly from the masses: ! Unobjectivity!\ In this reporter's estemation, there are two types of · ty in sports reporting. The first, positive unobjectivity, illustrated by the following example: \The New York unleashed an explosive attack this afternoon, scoring points in their 72-41loss to the Washington Redskins.\ statement is obviously a completely unobjective bit of , but because it emphasizes the good side of the loss, the cvauuu, public, or the athletes involved, cry for the sportswriter's ood. They do cry for blood, however, when the sportswriter slips negative unobjectivity, emphasizing or simply commenting the dark side of a defeat. Granted: the writer has slipped unobjectivity, but why, aU of a sudden, is he being That fact can not be explained here, but it can be that a sportswriter is not invidiously plotting against a m, especially his college team, 'when he criticizes them. P the reporting of Satufday's game at Williams was Ed Young, sophmore center for the team (whose ter-to·the-editor can be found on Page 2 of this issue), thought , and pointed out several facts to this reporter concerning the ontest. First of all, he emphasized that the team played hard on rday, noting that it is extremely tough to be down 34-0 at half, with two more quarters offootball to be played. Young also pointed out that the team gained 110 yards of its yards total offense in the second half, proof that the team not roll over and die in the latter part of the game. He also nished this reporter for failing to note the injuries ned by Steve Bauer (broken leg) and Skip Lynch (strained legaments). In all fairness, however, it must be noted that injuries were reported in the article, but for some reason to this reporter, they were cut by the printer. Young went on to point out several other facts concerning the 11 team, such as constant player shullfing on the part of ch George Flood, a predominantly sophomore and, therefore, msltak.e-ll'roJie offensive line, and the absence of Gerry Ostrander, Carlson, and Joe James in the backfield and receiving corps, fact that was noted in an article by this reporter some weeks and partially explains the sudden ineffectiveness of rterback Ken Pearce this season. Thus we can look deeper and somewhat more objuctively Continued on Pa{!e 5 recommending - HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER ~~3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family\ 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELR\' Booters · Blwtk Hartford, 3-0 The Union soccer team ended its season in fine style, by shutting out the visiting Hartford squad 3-0 on Tuesday. The grune marked the end of a fine season, which say the Gamet post a 5-5-l record. By HANK LEVINE Union's dominance of the game was · ob:vious. The Gamet ball iri Hartford's ~nd for most of the contest but couldn't seem to find the mark until the fourth quarter_ Paul Martini opened the scoring for Union at I :47 ih Grid Faces Saxo,ns The single platoon approach may return to Union CO'llege football tomorrow as the injury-plagued Dutchmen travel across the state to face Alfred UniveFsity. Coach George Flood's eleven, previously hobbled by heavy losses iFI the interior line, will be further handicapped by the loss of linebackers Steve Bauer and tri-captain Skip Lynch. Both were injUl'ed in Union's 34-0 loss to Williams last Saturday. Flll the Gaps In order to fill these gaps, Flood has been forced to look to his offensive platoon for replacements. \At least one and as many as five of our players will be going both ways Saturday and all five will see some defensive action\ says Flood. \This is the first time since the two platoon mle came in four years -ago that I have been forced to have players go both ways.\ The Garnet are a disappointing 2-5 this season and face an opponent whose fortunes have been just the opposite. Alfred, behind the passing combination ·of sophomore quarterback J iln Moretti and freshman end Charles Young, plus a balanced running attack, are 5-2 this falL Upset Hopes Union's attempt at the up set will rest primarily on the success of the Dutchmen passing attack which has been the key to the offense thus far this season. Senior quarterback Ken Pearce has eight touchdown passes and 82 completions~ good for I ,051 yards in seven games. His principal target has been Union recordholding receiver Rich Swan, a senior from Elmira, who has caught 29 passes this year for 414 yards and six touchdowns. This will be the tenth game in the Union-Alfred series. The Dutchmen have won three, lost five, and tied one. Allegheny Airlines helps you beat the waiting game ... And saves you up to 33Ys%. Allegheny's Young Adult Card lets you fly whenever you want to (even holidays) and still get advance reservations., ..... If you're between 12 and 22, what are you waiting for? 'Stop by any Allegheny ticket .. ,.''' counter and purchase your Young Adult Card. -. Allegheny Air System the first period on an assist by Bobby Dodd. After that, it was just a matter of how many shots Union missed in attempting to score another goal. Overpowering Attack Hartford's defense was overpowered and their offense didn't give goalie Dave Block too much of a workout. With six minutes gone by in the last period, Art Frazier found the mark to put the Garnet ahead 2-0~ Coach Brown then allowed his substitutes a piece of the action. Bob Bernhardt ended the Garnet's scoring with three minutes to play by putting in a beautiful corner kick goal. Cautious Optimism Looking on to next season, the situation seel't'ls hopeful. Only the fullback position will suffer, because of graduating seniors. Most of the scoring this season has been done by sophs and freshmen. Junior Chris Swan, sophomore goalie Dave Block and the other yearlings on the squad are all expected to ret\lrn next year. In a season marked by injuries and suprises, Coach Brown must be satisfied. Losing Okello in the early going cut down on their power and hurt the Garnet's chances. But an inspired squad came back to score a devastating upset over highly ranked R.P .I., and barely missed posting the first winning Gamet soccer season since 1958. have a lot more going for you , I . VOL.!J9, N< Fletch~ lov~e I A leading the \new mora , attacked c1 education in for \extraordit in exhibiting \ block very c1 the post·Victo: Dr. Jose l •• author ef \Sit a controversia with the ••n criticized s opponents fo the whole pre of the se:x act. ~ social e thics Episcopal The in Cambri addressed abo in the So auditorillm. Not Dr. Flet1 favored \a education pr< student adv: school. \The inherently or i about sex:,\ he \' Dr. Fletche \new moralit) the fact t medicine has conquor the infection, co detection. Sex '\We are compelle<l to matter of se own merits anc with the prud< of the triple f~ Dr. Fletche 4 ,. the \!lOW StudE Supp1 An es;timat and Sl<idm students will ti chartered bus ' ·' to, Washingtor massive peace Friday and Sat Today, V representatives S(lcial Actio placed a wrea1 of all veterans in all wars,\ at in V etera.n 's M down tow11 Sch Three busse Union campus p.m. after peace-related campus and schools in co1 the secon t \ mora tori u demonstration. A peacevigi

• .; ' . I • Founded at Union :College 1877 VOL. !J9, NO. 18 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK,'NOVEIVIBER 11,1969 PRICE TWENTY CENTS Flet<her On Ethics ·Lov~e Is J:he Answe:r By M. PAUL ANDREWS III A lea.ding proponent of the \'new morality\ yesterday , attacked critics of sex education in public schools for \extraordinary prurience\ in exhibiting \a psychosexual block very characteristic of the post-Victorians.\ Dr. Joseph Fletcher, t ~ author of \Situation Ethics,\ a controversial book dealing with the \new morality,\ criticized sex-educaHon opponents for \thinking of the whole prdblem in terms of the sex act.\ Dr. Fletcher, ~ social ethics professor at Episcopal Theological School . ' .. in Cambridge, Mass., addressed about 100 persons in the Social Sciences auditoriam. Not Bad Dr. Fletcher said he favored \a graduated sex education program\ as the student advances through school. \There is nothing inherently or intrinsically bad about sex:,\ he said. stipulating tha:t \morality is to love people and use things, like sex. Imrno rality is to 'love things and us~ people.\ He gave examples of \the big man on campu:swho attempts to seduce a g:irl to establish his virility, or th.e dame who deliberately seoduces a guy as a husband tr2p. These are immoral acts,\ he said. Continued on Page 3 Herman ·yo Speak Dr. Robert S. Herman, chairman of the economics department, will address the 75th national conference on government, sponsored by the National Municipal League, being held this week in Philadelphia~ Dr. Heman, former chief of staff of fu.e 1 96 7 New York State c~nstitutional convention, will speak on \ConstitutioDal Conventions: Citizens Condaves.\ The National Municipal League is a non-partisan organization aimed at providing more effective state and munidpal government through citi2en participation. Clark Condemns Militarized Society By NEIL S. KRAMER The militarization of American society and our \mixed-up national priorities\ drew the ire of former United States Senator Joseph S. Clark last night in an address at the College. Mr. Clark said the United States should declare a halt to further MIRV (Multiple Indep end en tly- target able Reentry Vehicle) testing, \because it is the greatest threat to peace the world has ever known. \Continued testing will seriously handicap the upcoming arms control talks in Helsinki,\ scheduled to begin November 17, he said. In his address, sponsored by the Schenectady Capital District Chapter of World Federalists, USA, Mr. Clark claimed that the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks \can be much more of a 'giant step for Mankind' than the American astronauts' recent walk on the moon.\ Amoral At an afternoon conference in the Social Sciences faculty lounge, Mr. Clark stated that his outlook had become distinctly non-paritsan since he was named World Federalists USA president in March. \Richard Milhous Nixon is the most amoral President we have had since Lyndon Baines Johnson,\ the former Pennsylvania Democrat said. Dr. Fletcher said that the \new morality\ grew out of the fact that \modern medicine has managed to conquor the triple fears of infection, conception and detection. Sex is safe. Tickets are now on sale for the FLOCK, appearing Saturday night at 8:30 in the Chapel. Insisting that rampant inflation has robbed the government of the ability to attend to the domestic needs ••we are now being compelle<l to look at the matter of sexuality on its own merits and not confuse it with the prudence arising out of the triple fears,\ he added. TreasuryCommitteeReports • of the nation, unless \we get the money out of the military budget,\ Mr. Clark explained the \town meeting\ program that the World Federalists USA and the Coalition on National Priorities and Military Policy is calling for December 13 and 14. .J I• Dr. Fletcher characterized the ''flow morality\ as The Student Treasury Committee is composed of three regular student members and the vice-president of the Student Body. Tlli:s year the Students To March In Support Of Moratorium An es;timated 175 Union and Skidmore College students will travel by car and chartered bus Thursday night ·' to, Washington, D.C., for a massive peace demonstration Friday aad Saturday. Today, Veteran's Day, representatives of the Union Social Action Committee placed a wreath \in memory of all veterans who have died in all wars,\ at the monument in Veteran's Memorial Park in downtow11 Schenectady. Three busses will leave the Union campus around 10:30 p.m. a.fter a day of , peace·related activities on campus and in local high schools in conjunction with t h e s e co n d Vi e t n am t r• moratorium-on-death demonstration. A peace vigil from noon to l p.m. Thursd2y at Veterans Park will inaugurate local moratorium activities Thursday, Riclurd Sloan said. The vigil~ s:po nsGred by the Schenectady A.rea Clergy and Laymen Concerned AbGut Vietna.m, :ha:s been held weekly since July 24. Skidmore students are planning to distribute anti-Vietnam War literature in Saratoga Sprin~s as well as to send a gfoup to the Washington <iemonstration. Busses will return from the nation's capitaJ late Saturday following a :massive peace march on the White House earlier in the day. The New Mobilization Committee, march sponsors, have predicted the number of marchers at be tween 500;000 and 1 million. committee consists of Ross Fraser, chairman; Roy Wiese, secretary; Joe Furlong, member at large; and Walt Spencer, Student Body vice-president. As a standing committee Gf the Student Senate we are charged with the resp<lnsibility of allocating Student Tax funds to activities duly constituted by the Student senate. These funds derive from the $ IS paid by each student at registration each term. Although our income has increased with our larger student body, both the number and size of allocation requests have also increased. It has been our general philosophy tG maintain those activities with a record of accomplishment while also helping to foster new and promising activities. As you go over our figures you will see that we have not allocated our total expected income but instead are trying to maintain a small surplus with which to tneet unexpected expenses in the coming year. We have instituted a system of seven week reports from all activities by which we hope to encourage fmancial responsibility. In the cases of the Course Evaluation, *Coffee House, Philomatheans, Political Forum, and Social Action Committee, we have made partial allocations pending a review between the Continued on Page 2 Grass \The purpose of the town meetings is to focus attention Continued on Page 2 Fein, Weingold, Ouzer Shift Concordy Roles Henry G. Fein and Peter J. Weingold have recently been promoted to new positions on the Concordiensis Senior Editorial Board. Fein and Weingold, both juniors, have been working on Concordy since their freshman year. Fein who was Sports Editor, and author of the column \The Fien Line,\ as a sophomore has been promoted to Managing Editor. Weingold, former Feature Editor, has assumed the post of Campus Editor. This newly recreated position last seen four years ago combines the News and Features Departments. It is hoped this combination of the departments will lead to more in-depth reporting from both a news and features angle. William Ouzer, Managing Editor until Fein's promotion, was named Executive Editor. This is viewed as a horizontal rather than a vertical shift for Ouzer who has been kicked sideways since there is no room upstairs. Richard E. Patterson, Jr. former Editor-In-Chief has been acting News Editor. Patterson will now write for Concordy as an Editor-at-Large. I I

PAGE 2 NOVEMBER 11, 1969 NOVEI\IIBI 0 .. , , , Union': . . . • • :p1n1on· Letters to . the Edtlor F acuhy Slwrtchanges SllHieM '\ planned Committee: night with ,, flick \Whi p.m. in ~ night. \' perform it En:ioys Visit Dear President Martin: I wanted to let you know how much I enjoyed being at Union College last week. It was one of the most refreshing and stimulating afternoons I've had in some time. I was especially impressed by the high quality of the students and faculty on the campus. If I can ever be of any assistallce to you or to the college, l hope you won't hesitate to call on me. am With every good wish, I Sincerely yours, George McGovern March To DC To the Editorr: On November 3 Richard Nixon spoke to the nation. It is obvious that Nixon himself did most of the speech writing because it was one of the worst political speeches in recent years. (The only competitor that comes immediately to mind is Nixon's post election speech of November 1962.) After listening to the President's address, I was confident that the opponents of the war in Vietnam would be aroused and more determined than ever to march on Washington. But the reaction of stadents on the Union College campus has been·very dissappointing. Many students who have consistently criticized the war in Vietnam are saying that the march on Washington will serve no purpose. They point out that Nixon has stated that protests, no matter how large will have no effect on his policies. These students a,re making the serious mistake of believing Richard Nixon. I wouLd retnind these people that in November 1962 this same Nixon promised the people of the United States that he would not return to active politics. He was a liar then and he is a liar now. If moderate and liberal opponents of the war do not go to Washington the protest will be written off as an assembly of New Left crazies. Peace will ,be left in the hands of Nixon's secret timetable. No president is totally unresponsive to public opinion. Nixon must be shown that America wants peace now. For those who oppose the war maction is inexcusable. If you care, give up Fall Weekend and work for peace. 400,000 American soldiers need your help now. March on Washington. Show Nixon where you stand. KenJacoby, '71 HyLEN SIMON Eady this week the social science faculty showed contempt for a committee it had set up only last spring, and once again acknowledged that it had little or no concern for the interests of the student body. A student-faculty committee, consisting of one professor and one student from each social science department, was set up to wrestle with the problems of the senior year--camp· rehensive examinatioNs and theses. This committee decided n0t to change theses, but thrashed out the problem of comps numerous times, with no results. With time growing sho~t, and with a desire to give the senior class some idea of what Clark Vetoes More MIRV Test Work Continued from Page 1 on the urgent needs of communities all across the country, and to develop grass-roots citizen pressure and support for Congress to reorder the nation's priorities -- human development rather than weapons development,\ he said. Each town meeting would concern itself with the individual problems and needs of the community, such as education, health, pollution control, and housing, Mr. Clark explained. · Discussion and debate at the town meetings will aim at determining: 1. How much federal income tax community residents paid this year: 2. How much of that tax money went to the military; 3. How much of that tax money came back to the community; and 4. How much of their tax money the community needs to solve the pressing problems that the town meeting had revealed_ Mr. Clark said that the priotities and military policy group is negotiating with the leaders of the Moratorium on Death planned for December in order to get their' support for the town meeting program. .f\1ovement Student Tax Reports Budget \If relevency is one of the major points of the student movement, then they will turn toward town meetings. Shutting down every college in America for three days is not only irrelevant, but also counterproductive,\ Mr. Clark said. World Fedarlists, USA is a voluntary, non-partisan organization with about 15,000 members in the U.S. Through 1 00 chapters across the country, it supports political action in behalf of disarmament, peace, and granting adequate power to the United Nations so that it can enforce world law, a World Federalists, USA statement said. Continued from Page 1 committee and the individual activity as to their program and needs after this term. We are presently working with the Film Workshop, the Moving Finger, the Club Sports Board, and the Dutch Classic Bowling League ACTIVITY Big Brother Bridge Club Cheerleaders Christian Fellowslfip Circle K Concert Ensembles Concordiensis Course Evaluation Freshman Record Glee Club Idol International Relations International Students Math Club Mountebanks Newman Club North End Coffee House Outing Club Philomatheans Photography Club Political Forum Social Action Com. Social Committee Student Activities Student Senate Union Book W2UC WRUC regarding their allocations for this year. The Basketball Tournament has postponed their request until winter term. One note of explanation that we feel is necessary is that once the allocations are made the committee is not AMOUNT REQUESTED $ 580.00 45.00 245.00 140.00 110.00 4000.00 11568.00 3600.00 1000.00 8012.00 6920.00 3935.00 595.00 145.00 5350.00 105.00 485.00 486.50 500.00 827.60 3270.00 790.00 1860.00 1000.00 1076.55 12030.00 1058.00 1750.00 $60683.65 AMOUNT GIVEN $ 560.00 40.00 155.00 45.00 50.00 2850.00 11568.00 1200.00 1000.00 6352.50 5470.00 2755.00 230;00 75.00 3775.00 65.00 360.00 486.50 500.00 65»0.60 860.00 460.00 1860.00 1000.00 1066.55 11475.00 1058.00 1750.00 $57757.15 responsible for the items on which the funds are spent, except for those items prohibited in our General Rules and Regulations which are handed out to each activity at their budget hearing. The budgets and books for all student activities are kept by Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office in Old Gym Hall. These are available for any interested student to view. If there are any questions or comments, members of the Treasury Committee may be contacted through your student senator or through our mailbox in the Student Activities Office. ~EWEST i Pe11nel Esso Service Nott Street Corner Of Van Vranken LU~CH 715 Albany Stre•t Specia!\izing: - HOT DOGS WITH FAMOUS SAUCE - DINNERS AND SANDWICHES - TAKE-OUT ORDERS - Union Students Favorite Spot - (Serving Sch•nedady Sinee 1921) Mon.-Thurs. 7 A.M.·2 A.M. Fri.-Sot. 7 A.M.-4 A.M. Sun. 9 A.M.-1 A.M. it should expect in the spring, the committee considered a proposal to suspend comps for this year, and restructure ,them for next year, since a need for restructuring is obvious. The proposal passed in .committee, 7-1. at 8:30 $2.75 pe Madigan\ Sunday, a p.m. in SS The faculty of the division defeated the proposal 3-18, . ., . with four abstentions. In other words, three of four faculty members voted for the proposal in the committee, and tluee of twenty-five supported it in ~ ,; ;: the meeting. The So instituting for this cc be on sal Activities Rathskell houses representa· night. f through S: be sold o ancl in Sci- are warm until ThU! buy ticket One can only assume that faculty members were intimidated by students, intimidated by other faculty members, or that the faculty representation was amazingly atypical. The result is that each department will decide on its form of camps this year. This undoubtedly will be a hurried decision, since all are in agreement that students should know very shortly in what form their punishment will come. However, this will not he d anything new for the class of 1970. We have already undergone experiments in \ Comp. Ed. 10, 11 ,.and junior year projects. It should be nothing new to hear a professor say, \Well it didn't · work out to well this year, but we'll learn from our mistakes.\ Why is the faculty going out of its way to administer tests which are only designed to prove that they didn't do their jobs right the first time? ACCUTROH \425\ Water resistant, sweep second hand, applied Roman numeral dial. $135.00 The Accutron tuning fork replaces the outdated balance wheel that's found in all watches. Stop by so we can tell you more. Starting with the right time of day. From $110.00. ACCUTRON• by BULOVA ij It goes hm-m-m-m. Fletcl ''New Continue. Pr• But he premarital act of sex What rna undesirabl or resultin love that ' it is lo marriage.'· Althou \the id sexuality Fletcher few peop competen Almost in· or the ,at possess or He sai sanction only four a hundred Dr. Fl current ' campuses take shaf for contr Q for all students : the camp Many cc schools al the practi ~. Gra may bt l - 1$Ch • for 1 Thr• p PI Ita Ot Behin On• Blc :; S.:h

969 .ts ring, )d a mps :ture ce a : is tssed ision 1-18, In four for the of t in that vere ents, ;ulty ;ulty ingly that ~cide year. be a U are :Ients ly in ment NOVEMBER 11, 1969 , Union's FaiT Weekend, -~· ' planned by the Social ·, ... .. Committee, will begin Friday night with the showing of the ,, flick \White Voices\ at 8:00 < . p.m. in SS 016. Saturday night. \The Flock\ will perform in Memorial Chapel at 8:30 p.m. Tickets are $2.7 5 per person. \Elvira Madigan\ will be shown on Sunday, at 3, 7, and 9:15 p.m. in SS 016. ***** The Social Committee is instituting a new ticket policy for this concert. Tickets will be on sale in the Student Activities Office, at the Rathskellar, in fraternity houses and by dorm representatives until Tuesday night. From Wednesday through Saturday, tickets will be sold on other campuses, ami in Schenectady. Students are warned against waiting until Thursday or Friday to buy tickets. ***** ·! Fletcher Sets 1 •· \New Morality\ Continued from page I Premarital Sex Jt be <l . But he said that \not all premarital sex is wrong. The act of sex is morally neutral. What makes it wrong or undesirable is its motivation or resulting consequences. It's love that validates sex, just as it is love that validates lSS of :eady s in ' • unior marriage.\ Although he stated that \the ideal for human sexuality is free love,\ Dr. Fletcher warned that \very few people are emotionaily competent for free love. Almost invariably one partner or the ,other will attempt to .possess or exploit the other.\ d be 1r a lidn 't • year, our going nister :igned t't do tim ? e. lstant, Roman 135.00 daces that's by so lrtiflg From IVA n. ' ,. He said that he would sanction premarital sex \in only four or five cases out of a hundred.\ Dr. Fletcher added that . current debate on college \ campuses \is beginning to talce shape around demands for contraceptive protection a for all male and female students as a regular part of the campus health services.\ Many co-ed and single-sex schools already have initiated the practice, he said. ',jl Graubart & Sons may run small ads, but they have big values. '~chenectody' s famous diamond shop, for three generations) 166 Jay St. Three Union Graduates in Family. Phone 372.0528 PARK PIZZERIA Italian Grinders - Our Specialty Behind Davidson Hall- One Block from the Compua 25 Pork Place Schenectady, N.Y. Black armbands are being sold all this week in the Student Activities Office. They will also be sold at the West College dining room, in the library, and by various representatives of the Social Action Committee around campus. The pm·pose of ,the armbands is to provide .as many persons as possible with a means nf demonstrating their support for the Blither Moratorium on the War in Vietnam. The :Social Actiot:J. Committee urges all students to buy these armbands since the money raised will be used to help finance the transportation of those Union students going to Washington to take part in the March Against Death on Nov. 15. Minimum donation for the black armbands is 25 cents. ***** The Union College Big Brother Program must know exactly how many students PAGE 3 have little brothers. If you are currently a big brother, please complete one of the questionnaires available in the Studertt Activities Office or in the library, a!ld return it to Student Activities. *'**** No announcements for blither or Letters to the Editor will be accepted unless typed and double spaced. *CEILING AND VISIBILITY UNLIMITED At Pratt & Whitney Aircraft \ceiling and visibility unlimited\ is not just an expression. For example, the President of our parent corporation joined P&WA only two years after receiv- ing an engineering degree. The preceding President, now Chairman, never worked for any other company. The current President of P.&WA started in our engineering department as an experimental engineer and moved up to his present position. In fact, the majority ef our senior officers all have one thing in common - degrees in an engineering or scientific field. To insure CAVU*, we select our engineers and scientists carefully. Motivate them well. Give them the equipment and facilities only a leader can provide. Offer them company-paid, graduate education opportunities. Encourage them to· push into fields that have not been explored before. Keep them reaching for a little bit more responsibility than they can manage. Reward them well when they do manage it. Your degree can be a B.S., M.S., or Ph.D. in: MECHANICAL • AERON/\UTICAL • ELECTRICAL • CHEMICAL • CIVIL • MARINE • INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING • PHYSICS • CHEM- ISTRY • METALLURGY • MATERIALS SCIENCE • CERAM- ICS • MATHEMATICS • STATISTICS • COMPUTER SCI- ENCE • ENGINEERING SCIENCE • ENGINEERING MECHANICS. Consult your college placement officer - or write Mr. William L. Stoner, Engineering Department, Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, East Hartford, Connecticut 06108. · CAVU* might also mean full utilization of your technical skills through a wide range of challenging programs whiclt include jet engines f()r the newest military and commercial aircraft, gas turbines f()r industrial and marine use, rocket engines for space programs, fuel cells for space vehicles and terrestrial uses, and other advanced systems. Pratt & Whitney ~ircraft u DIViSION OF UNITED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION A EAST HARTFORD AND MIDI>LETOWN, CONNECTICUT WEST PALM BEACH, FLORII>A An Equal Opportunity Employer i I II I !

PAGE 4 NOVEMBER 11, 1969 Defense Key In Stanning 10 · 7 Grid Upset Over AUred By HENRY FEIN Fine play by an essentially sophomore line, the return of an effective offense, and timely defensive plays in the closing minutes led the Garnet to an upset 10-7 footbal.J victory over Alfred University Saturday. The con test, played in a driving rainstorm at Alfred, upped the Dutchmen's record to 3-5 with one game remaining. The Saxons concluded their season with a 5-3 mark. Alfred was a big pre-game favorite. The Saxons sported victories over such Union-conquerers as Rochester and Hobart, and were led by a fine sophomore quarterback, Jim Moretti. In last week's ECAC Division Ill poll, the Saxons ranked ninth. The Gamet, on the other hand, were forced to return to single-platoon football fm the first time in four seasons, due to injuries to the defensive linemen and linebackers. Sophomores Ed Young, Ken Cyboron, Garry Drummond, and Rick Jaszczak saw extensive defensive action for the first time Saturday. The Saxons produced their only score early in the first quarter on a drive marked by two plays that can only be termed \bad breaks\ for the Garnet. With a second and long yardage situation near midfield, Moretti passed to flanker Charlie Young, who was hit hard by Keller a few seconds after catchingthe ball. The Garnet fell on the apparent fumble, but the pass was ruled incomplete. On the following play, Moretti completed a pass to Young to keep the drive going. The Saxon score came on another fluke play. Moretti's pass to .Young was hatted away by Garnet middle-linebacker s,teve French, who played a fine game coming off a leg injury. Young dove for the baH as it fell behind French into the end zone, and came u:p with the TD. The Dutchmen got back in the ball game late in the half as Drummond recovered an Alfred fumble at the home 25. Ken Pearce then completed a pass to Rich Swan at the Alfred nine, but the drive stalled and the Dutchmen were forced to settle for a 25-yard Jim Sabella field goal. Tb.e halftime score was 7-3. Early in the third quarter, J aszczak took a Pearce screen pass and rambled forty·two yards around left end to the Alfred II. Five plays later, fullback Larry Sykes scored from the one. Sykes, running hard for the first time since an early-season injury, had a fine second half despite the poor footing. Although the Garnet failed to increase the lead, they did control the football most of the second half. Two long drives fizzled inside the Alfred thirty, but Union's ball control ate up the clock rather effectively. On both drives, fine defensive efforts by the Saxons foiled Gamet scoring threats. Defensive coach Chris Schmid employed a five-man line much of the aftemo<Jn, and the highlight of the move was Jaszczak's insertion at the left end position. The All-American track star, who previously was used as a running back, made his presence felt throughout the second half as he barreled his way into the Alfred backfield, time and again, forcing Moretti to hurry his passes and dumping the Alfred signal caller twice singlehandedly. Of especial interest was the line play of the Dutchmen. With most men going \both ways,\ the blocking and tackling was hard and crisp despite the miserable field conditions. In sharp contrast to earlier performances, especially the humiliating Williams defeat, the Gamet linemen were in control throughout the contest, both on offense and defense. The Saxons got rolling late in the game, taking the ball on their own 32 with 2:22 left in the contest. Moretti, showing the poise under a fierce pass rush that he had exhibited all afternoon, completed a first-down pass to Young near midfield on fourth down, and came back with a no the r aerial to Young, this time on tnird down, which moved the pigskin to the Union 39. Jaszczak dumped Moretti for a 12-yard loss, but on fourth down Moretti completed a pass to split end Cliff Converse at the Union 28. Spuming any attempt to tie the game on a long field goal attempt, the Alfred quarterback used his time-outs to try four TD passes in the fmal 45 seconds of play. The first three passes, against a fierce Gamet rush, Rugby Club Deadlocks Vermont, 6-6 The Rugby Club broke a two-year losing streak on Saturday afternoon, battling the ruggers of the University of Vermont to a 6-6 deadlock. Union's Gary Lynch opened the afternoon's scoring in the second quarter, converting a 30-yard penalty kick from a tough angle to put the Garnet on top, 3-0. After beign backed up to thier goal line during most of the first half by a tenacious Union defense, the Vermonters came back in the Indoor Track Indoor track practice will start Tuesday, November 18th at 4:30P.M. in the Field House. There will also be a meeting Thursday, November 13th at 7:30 P.M. in SS 112 for . all boys interested in frosh or varsity track. three-point try on a fine running play by their inside center. Electrifying Run Eatly in the final stanza, co-captain and serum halfback Howie Goldberg stole the ball at midfield, kicked it downfield, and outraced the Vermont defenders to the ball in .the endzone, falling on the pigskin for the Gamet's second try of the afternoon. Lynch's conversion attempt was wide, however, and the ruggers settled for a 6-3 lead. AI most immediately, however, the Vermont attack gained mome·ntum and, within a few moments, scored on another fine running play to tie the score and conclude the game's scoring. Union's record now stands at 0-2-1. The ruggers will take on the Schenectady Rugby Club in a Fall Weekend contest this coming Saturday at 12-noon on Library Field. DOUGLAS Schcncctad_l· 'sf. caJinK .tf en's Shr J(' Str 1re '\' BOSTONIAN *BATES* WALL·STREETER HUSH PUPPIES * VVALK·OVER * SEBA~MOCS MANSFIE·LO '*SNOW & AFTER SKI BOOTS Phone F R 4-8577 319 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. $1 OFF PURCHASE OF SHOES UPON PRESENTATION OF I. D. CARD fell incomplete. On the final play of the afternoon, with no time remaining on the clock, Jaszczak led a four man Gamet charge which dumped Moretti for a 15-yard loss. Ken Pearce had a fine ru'ternoon for the Dutchmen, especially the second half in which he coinpleted 12 of 16. The senior signal caller was 18 ·of 32 for 220 yards. His chief targets were Swan, who caught nine for 107 yards, and Sabella, who played split end and caught six passes, often in key third-down situations. '7 3 G ridders Trip ~Utica; Post 3-2 Season Record By DENNIS ALSO FROM Union's freshman football team completed its season on a winning note Saturday, defeating Utica College, at Utica, 21-6. The win capped a winning season for the frosh and· gave them a 3-2 record fmal record. The game was played under extremely poor conditions, as it rained continuously throughout the game. The Gamet did, however, manage to push across their 21 points before the mud made offensive progress impossible. The freshmen from Utica jumped out to an early 6-0 lead in the first period, but the Garnet went ahead to stay 7-6 later in the first stanza. The seven points came on a short plunge by Curtis Rove and a conversiOn by Bob Mitchell. The Gamet scored twice in the second period on two running plays. The first T.D. came on a 12-yard sprint off-tackle by Tom De Crosto. The second score came on a 25-yard jaunt around end by John Swan co later in the period. After that it was a!l MIDTOWN BARBER SHOP All Haircuts done, by Appoint- ment from Tues. thru Fri. Ap- pointments not necessary Sot. 515 UNION ST. 3774010 denfense, with neither team being able to put together a sustained drive. Union's defense did a fine job in holding back Utica and preserving the victory. Overall it was a very successful season for the '73 Gridders. The yearlings came out with a winning record, losing only to a muc11'Ihore experienced Trinity team and a strong Hudson Valley. The Dutchmen showed a great crop of running backs, bolstered by a fme offensive line, as well as three strong quarterbacks. Coach George Flood should look forward next year to receiving .·~ good contingent of sophom~~es, to help improve upon this'years' losing varsity football performance. PROFESSIONAL TYPING SERVICE. I B \I S e I e c t r i c typewriter. Equipped with Greek and :\lath· svmhols. Your choice ~f type style. Experit•tu.:ed 111 the::;i::; typing. J>ick up and cieliverv. Call 489-6978 a~y time. KING'S ATLANTIC SERVICE STATION 717 Hott Street We Cater To Un1on Students 10°~ Service Discount LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian • American FOGd 1125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady 01 b-9744 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks ond Chops Visit Our Cocktoil Bor VOL. 99, NO. 19 . , . ·- Senate :Recommends Faculty Meetings; App1 Second Pass -Fail M~ By RICHARD E. PATTERSON, JR. • u The Student Senate, meeting Tuesday night, approved a new pass-fail proposal and recommended that all students be allowed to attend faculty meetings. The Senate also passed a motion expressing support of the National Vietnam ~ Moratorium activities and tabled a motion asking that the campus flag be flown at half-mast until the war is over. The pass-fail proposal .· would allow students to take a fourth course perterm on pass-fail basis. Such a course would count toward • ' graduation. The system now before the faculty would allow. a . ·' student only two pass-fails per year and not more than one per term. The effects of ~ the new proposal would be to allow more than two pass-fails per year and one per term, if a student were to take both a third and fourth course on pass-fail. Reconsider ~ •( Don Kessler, Senate president, offered a motion asking that the recent :. decision by the Social Science faculty to veto a recommendation by its student-faculty committee be reconsidered. The student-faculty committee had recommended that compreshensive exams for Union be suspended this year, while the entire system is studied. Kessler's resolution also called for speedy action to , ,. settle the question of comprehensive exams so that seniors will be able to plan accordingly. A second proposal by Kessler asked that all students be admitted to faculty meetings. Both proposals carried by substantial margins. Support The motion to support the National Mortatorium noted l that -\this Thursday, Friday and Saturday a vast number of our countrymen will join together to peacefully protest I ' o the war in Vietnam.\ It expressed the support of the Senate for \The national activities and the : this campus that the Novemb1 Mobilizati Moratorium.\ Another mot was tabled by \resolved that in those people th~ day in Vietnam, Senate asks that flag be kept at hal such time as the < and peace re motion was tabl< senators to poll units. Both concerning the W< in the Student S1 Committee coordinating activities on this c The senate proposal to post football field alcoholic bevel question of m restrictions, alloc space for staff pa Fox and [ dormitories was will be considere< meeting. HE'SSEWIN< Edward Bond's 8:30 in the NOT

'PAGE 2 Letters To The Editor Pre-Med Syndrome Note: The following is a copy of a 'letter sent to Professor Urhan of the Biology Department. Dear Professor Urban: This letter gives me tl:!e opportunity to articulate some of the lasting impre~sions of the Marine Biology course I took prior to the beginning of this academic year, and to relate the impact of that course to my three previous years of study at Union. According to Barron's Guide of American Colleges, the Biology Department at Union is nationally known for its ability to place students in medical schools. This very situation unnecessarily creates problems for those students who, after their four years of undergraduate biology, are either not qualified academically to enter medical school, or simply choose on the basis of individual preferences to pursue other areas of graduate study. Certainly, the genesis of the problem lies with the a d m i ·n i s t r a t i o n ' s disproportionate emphasis on its yearly percentage of medical school acceptances. However, it is the author's opinion that the real onus for the problem belongs to the faculty. Their apathy towards the matter is reflected in the lack of uniformly meaningful advisor - advisee relationships and the glaring absence of a formal program, similaf to the pre-med committee, for assisting students in graduate school applications. Currently, the aforemen- tioned students are woefully uninformed as to possible employment opportunities and graduate programs in other than the well publicized medically oriented fields. The Marine Biology program was a complement to, rather than an extension of, the normal course of undergraduate biology. Its impact on the student was far greater than the duration of the course would seem to imply. The author will remain \Those who make peaceful revolutioH inzpossible make oiole11t revolution inevitable.\ Published Tuesday and Friday during the Union College academic year by the Student Body of Union College, Schenectady, New York. Published Thursdays during the Upward Bound Project by Upward Bound students in :residence at Union College. National Advertising Representative': National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative. 360 Lexington Avenue, N,Y.C. Editorial Office. Old Gym, Union College, Publication Office, Whitehurst Printing & Binding Co., Inc., 416·418 Fifth Ave .. Troy, 235·4450. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20c a copy; $6 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. NEIL S. KRAMER Editor-in-Chief HENRY FEIN ....................................... ... Managing Editor CARLS. GOLDSAND and JEFF BIRN Business Managers WILLIAM OUZER .................................. Executive Editor PETER J. WEINGOLD ............................... Campus Editor RICHARD E. PATTERSON, JR ••....... Contributing Editor BILL HOLLERAN ........................................ Sports Editor JODY SASLOW .. ............................... Photography Editor PAUL ANDREWS ..•.................................... Editor-at-large STAFF- Robert A. Levine, Danny Shocket, David Uguccioni, Louis Snitkoff, Tony Faga, Doug Wong, M. Grossman, Mike Gottlieb, John Garrigan SPORTS STAFF- Mark Shugoll, Greg Hamlin, Mike Humber, Dennis Alsofrom, Stu Moss, Bruce Garber, Hank Levine eternally grateful to those professors who gave him the opportunity to see for the first time the nature and scope of research in one area of contemporary biology. This result was probably the most significant aspect of those three weeks of study at Woods Hole. It remains as the only visible evidence of a sincere effort on the part of a few faculty members to break the pre-med, medical school syndrome. Sincerely yours, Anthony J. Carpinello '70 Foisted Views T() the Editor: In regard to the Moratorium, the editors of the Concordiensis have repeatedly shown their contempt for the views of Union students which differ from their own through their editorials and blatantly slanted news articles and the columns of free advertising space devoted to this off-campus, political event of which many students disapprove. These few stlldents who are in a position to foist their opinions on the rest of the student body should consider the rights of those who are paying fm their privilege. - Alfred Lemmo, '73 Correspondents Continued from Page 1 take a cue from those 'impudent snobs' of October 15 who went about voicing their opinions in a peaceful and non-violent manner.\ \It seems a shame that these striking union members are willing to recognize the rights of a citizen only when they are consistent with their own,\ the two seniors wrote. Brennan is a graduate of Mont Pleasant High School in Schenectady. Bauer graduated from Niskayuna High School. Bauer's father is a GE employee in South Carolina. THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeah from all over the world, 406 STATE ST. NOVEl\llllEH 1i:3, 1969 P-F Hits Snag by LOUIS SNITKOFF The C u rrieular Affail.ts Committee, meeting last night began consideration of the pass-fail proposaL Because sampling of faculty opmton on the pass-fail proposal which is incomplete, the committee expects to make a decision when it meets next week. The Committee is simultaneously conducting a study of the grading system in general. And, due to the size of this task, the study is still being formulated. Walter Spencer presented a second pass-fail proposal passed Tuesday night by the Student Senate. However, the committee will not consider the new proposal until it has completed its consideration of the first. Infol'Jna tion Dean Lichterman said the C A C expects te> receive information £rom Dartmouth and Goucher Colleges ahout their respecHve pass-fail programs before ne:xt week's meeting. Infm:t:nation is also expected froiTI Bro~n, on its .grading system. It now appears unlikely that the pass•fail proposal will be considered at the Faculty C o u n c i 1 ,Jne e t i n g i n December. The deadline for submitting items for the Council Mee,ings Agenda expired Wedne~day morning, and the CAC :had not submitted the proposal to the council at that time .. So it is impossible f()r the pass-fail system to be i11 operation at the beginning of the Winter Tenn. Blither job-interviewing; program to NOVEMBI v by DOl A me American ., \. to prevent the Social, its f acuity 1 , of St. C< Church, Er placing a v Memorial November, . ,. Mark Guild, Pre Snider an Murphy w waiting fc Legion's c. ceremonies member approached • them that and that t right to be· The next meeting of the Student-Faculty Bridge Club will be he! d on Tuesday, November 18 at 8:00 p.m. in the Hale House Faculty Lounge. All those wishing to join are welcome. be held 011 Monday, December 29 :and Tuesday, December JO at the Rochester C'ham b er of Commerce, 55 St. Paul ., Street. When th leave, c, Legionaire shout at 1 later interv him. The results of the last tournament, held on October 28, are as follows: First: Father Gagnon-Prof. Aroian; titd for second: Fishman-Kirschner and F ilman -Guitierrez. ****** In order to facilitate communications about group activities and possibly to elicit community support, the Union College Big Brother Program must know exactly how many students have little brothers. If you are currently a Big Brother, would you please complete one of the questionnaires available in Student Activities or in the library and return it to the Student Activities ,Office. ******* June 1970 degree candidates interested in career opportunities available in the Rochester, N.Y. area are invited to take advantage of the fourth annual ''Project Opportunity,\ a business, industrial, and civic The Uni,()n College Inter-fraternity Council, in conjunction with the Salvation Artnr is sponsoring a canned food drive in Schenectady, mow through November 20. Students have been assig11ed areas in Schenectady t()t collect food for Thanksgiving dinners tq be distribut>ed by the Salvation Army , See your R. A. or call 312-0 172 for further informa,ion, **=!:~**~' STUDENT DIREIC'I'ORJES ARE NOW A V A.ii LASLE TO STUDENTS IN. ROOM: 2, ADMINISTRATION BUILDING. DIAMA.NTIE'S Enjoy Ovr fine lfome Cooked Italic~ fo<>d in Our Comfortable Dinirtg Room Opp. Th• Elrewn•ll Gate on Nottt Stree-t Open Doily I.() to 1 A...M. Sunday! 5 P}tr\.. to I A.M. DOUGLAS .\lcil£'/1('( ruJy 's l.cuJmg .\It'll's .\lhnt' .\'(tin' BOSTONIAN* BATES • WALL-STREETER HUSH PUPPIES* WALK-OVER • SEBA~I'MOCS. MANSFIELD+ SNOW & AFTER SKI BOO\TS Phone FR 4-8577 319 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. $1 OFF PURCHASE OF SHOES UPON PRESENTATION OF l. D. CARD THE IS ( ··I ' TICKI Ot '4 Elvir~ •-1 ( But I Elvira M but impel presented ' (; 1 cinematic p The me overwhelmi ) (' man and w each other. their life. \ woman lea, and roam together. lJ (.· Widerbe viewer wit '· natural an• which mru with jn li .) ~' universal men and w1 fall into o ('I irrationality of love an brings, cone

969 the bout s-f ail also its kely will in for the a not the it is ail at to jay, the of ege in the in in tq the r R. for TO 2, Our M. A.M. . , NOVEMBER 13, 1969 •l • Veteran Tries Wreath Bust by DOUGLAS WONG A member of the American Legion attempted _ \· to prevent two members of the Social Action Committee, its faculty advisor and a priest , of St. Columba's Catholic Church, Emmett Street, from placing a wreath in Veterans Memorial Park, Tuesday, November, 11. Mark Coven, Duncan Guild, Professor David J. Snider and Father James '' \ Murphy were at the park waiting for the American Legion's Veteran's Day ( ceremonies to end when a member of the Legion approached the four and told • them that it was their day and that the group had no right to be there. '4 When the group refused to leave, Coven said, the Legionaire started to yell and shout at them. The police later intervened and quieted him. THE FLOCK IS COMING: TICKOS NOW ON SALE Honor Dead Coven claimed that he and the others were there to honor the dead in their own way and that they did not interfere with the Veteran's memorial service. After the ceremony was finished, the group had their own rite during which they placed a wreath on the memorial with the inscription, \In memory of all those who have died.\ They stood in silent meditation for two minutes. Other members of the American Legion were still present during the ceremony. Coren reported that the wreath was not removed after the group left. High School Programs The Social Action Committee announced a drive to anange high school programs on the War in Vietnam. The program consists of films, discussions and debates at six .area ·schools. Students .and faculty from Union, and members of the community are expected to take part. A spokesman for the Social Acticm Committee said they had been looking for people who support the war in Vietnam or :President Nixon's policy to take part in these debates. But he n0ted that they have had great difficulty finding anyone willing to debate. The Social Action Committee has urged all students going to Washington for the Moratorium to bring sleeping bags, blankets, and food. ROTC Seeks More Men For Two-Year Program Applications for entry into the 2-year Air Force Officer Training program are now being accepted by the Officers and Staff of Union's Air Force ROTC Detachment located in Hoadley House. Union offers this opportunity to any student with two academic years remaining either at the u ndergratuate or graduate level or a combination of the two. Entry into the program is on a competitive basis. Applicants must pass a written exam (the Air Firce Officer Qualifying test), the Air Force medical evaluation and be selected by an interview board comp~sed of Air Force Officers. . . ) \-' ( Elvira Madigan: Tender, But Realistic Love Affair Two-year program applicants must successfully complete a six-week Field Training on an Air Force base next summer. The summer camp training provides the necessary background to enable the new cadet to fit in smoothly with the other cadets in the four year program. At no time during the summer does the trainee have to make a definite commitment to the service. In September he will come into the corps at the same level as other students in his class. He may learn to fly and obtain a private pilot's license while at Union. He will also draw $50 a month for expenses from the Air F me e. Interested students are encouraged to visit the AFROTC Detachment at Hoadley House for further information on the program. >J (; ) •I .', \ l l' I. Elvira Madigan, is a simple but impelling love story, presented with breath-taking cinematic photography. The movie concerns the overwhelming love which a man and woman feel towards each other. This love pervades their life. The man and woman leave behind their life and roam the countryside together. Widerberg presents the viewer with some of the '· -1.\ natural and cultural forces which man must contend with .in life, but also the · universal emotions which men and women face as they fall into the realm of o ('I irrationality. The \insanity\ of love and the conflicts it brings, conquers us often, and those who have been through such a feeling of union with another person, know. The odds are against the love affair between Elvira and her boyfriend. This movie will be shown as a Film Hap, on Sunday November 16th at 3, 7, and 9:15 in room SS 016. Peter Pause 535 Nott Street Charles R.embar, a New York City attorney respo11sible for the Supreme Court decisicn to permit American distribution of \Lady Chatterley's Lover, will speak to a convocation in Memcrial Chapel on Wednesday, November 19, at 8 p.m. The title of Mr. Remj)ar's talk will be: \Pornography : Legal Problem and Mcral Problem.\ 'For three Generations.' Those Who Know ... Have been recommending - PAGE 3 KING'S ATLANTIC SERVICE STATION 717 Nott Street We Cater To Un,on Students 10\~ Service Discount HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER \3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'\ 16r6 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELR'Y L-------------------------------------------~

NOVEMBER 13 1969 PAGE 4 On Today's Scene By BILL HOLLERAN Harriers, Hooters Impress This Fall .I ·•• Because of the high level of enthusiasm generated by varsity football during the fall, many people fail to take note of the significant, if less spectacular, contributions of so~:cer and cross-country to the autumn Union sp0rts scene. Last season, especially, many people were unaware of the performances of the boaters and harriers as the grid_ders were defe?Jtin~> everyone in sight on their way to a fine 7-1 record, and commanding most of Union's sports attention in the process. It was just as well, however, because the harriers tripped through another dismal season, stumbling to a 1-4 record.The only bright spot for Ur:tion corss-country fans was the notchiNg of the runners' first win in four years ·· only the fifth Garnet cross-country triumph since Footbal·l Stats RUSHING: Yds. Yds. Player Rushes Gd. Loss Net Ave. TDs Rich Jaszczak, FB 92 356 ·30 326 3.8 2 Joe Kirkup, FB 77 258 ·8 250 3.4 1 Larry Sykes, HB 91 288 ·51 237 2.5 4 Larry Bloom, HB 32 119 -10 109 3.5 2 Rich Swan, HB 7 53 0 53 7.6 0 Dan Kerkhoff. QB 10 7 -54 - 4 7 -4.7 0 Ken Pearce, QB 32 19 -200 - 181 -5.0 0 Union Totals 341 llOO 353 747 2.3 8 Opp. Totals 440 1966 -246 1720 4.1 21 No. % PASSING: Att. Comp. Comp. Yds. Had. Int. TDs Conv. Ken Pearce, QB 231 100 41.2% 1271 16 8 I Dan Kerkhoff, QB 19 3 15. 8'7c 33 2 0 0 Union Totals 236 103 39.0% 1304 18 8 Opp. Totals 163 72 47.0% 736 9 3 RECEIVING: Player Caught Yds. Gd. TDs Conv. Rich Swan, HB 38 521 6 1 Dan Gould, E 17 234 0 0 Mike Kumpf, E 23 218 1 0 Rich Jaszczak, FB 6 lSI 1 0 Larry Sykes, HB 5 20 0 0 Larry Bloom, HB 2 16 0 0 Joe Kirkup, FB 3 32 0 0 Jim Sabella, K 8 73 0 0 Steve MacKenzie, HB 1 9 0 0 Union Totals 103 1304 8 Opp. Totals 72 736 3 195 9. The boaters did not do mucJ.1 better, failing to come up with a winning season for the tenth season in a row. It was not hard to understand why so little attention was focused on soccer and cross-country during the fall ·· tl1e teams simply could not win. This fall, however, things have been different. The gridders, of course, have fallen on hard times, posting a 3-5 record so far this season, while the cross-country and soccer squads have performed brilliantly--considering their past performances. Astonishing Performance Coach Kon Coleman's harriers astonished everyone this fall by posting their first winning season since 1959 and best record since 1955, and by equalling in one season the total number of G a r n e t c r o s s- c o u n try triumphs since '59. The thinclads were an excellent 5-2 this season, and placed a strong fifth in the New York State championships -- the best Garnet showing since 1958, when the Dutchmen placed third. Things can only get better next autum for the harriers, as the runners will not lose a single man through graduation. No senior is found on the ten-man Garnet varsity roster, and the team's best two runners, Bryant Moeckel and Paul Forbes, are sophomores. Adding to the optimism among Garnet cross-countrv fans is the fact that the only two squads to defeat Union this fall, Oneonta and R.PI, will lose key men through graduation. ~---------------~--------~ t I ' ' t ' t Notre s~ialite, t 1 1e filet m~ avec sauce I I aux champignons, ~ • t de terre au four ou frites, t t salad verte. t f You know. Our special f ' Filet Mignon in Mushroom Sauce f ' with Baked Potato or French Fries I and Tossed Green Salad. Even f I translated: still $4.25. f t Great steaks and terrific lobsters 6 aren't the only thing Valle's .has ' t going for it. f ~ Vive VALLE'S! t t t t ' can be habit forming f & 1259 central Avenue; Route 5 ~ Y (Northway Exit 2 E) 459·9280 t ' t t L------------------------J Improved Hooters Muhlman, goai:ie Dave Block, Art FrazieF, and junior Chris Swan. High-scoring freshmen The soccer team did not crack the winning-season barrier this fall, but the boaters played remarkably at times and awarded Coach Gary Brown with a satisfying 5-5-1 final mark. The Gamet were admittedly supposed to be better this season, thanks to a fine crop of sophomores, but when the boaters lost high-scoring Bob Oke!Io early in the season soccer fans at Union simply sighed and crossed their fingers, hopiRg for the best. Paul Martini and Bob Bernhardt will also be back ' .1 next seasoN. VOL 99, Thus the void left by the football teams play this fall , has been creditably filled by the performances of the cross-country and soccer d ,.; teams ·· performances that Fan~ Give were largely overlooked until this year. In passing, however, it must be noted that the ' football team that will meet Surprisingly. the best was mighty good. Included in the Garnet's record were a literally unbelievable 3-3 tie at Trinity (ranked third in the East at the time) and an even more astonishing l-0 upset over nationally-ranked RPI, a team which, incidentallya is now competing in the NCAA National Championships. H amilto 11 on Saturday afternoon on Ale:xander 1 Field, is not the same squad that was pushed all over the field by Williams two weeks 1 ago. The GarNet, decimated by injuries on the defense last week, rode the astonishing play of a predominantly· sophomore defensive unit to Final Play an incredible 10-7 upset over the strong Alfred Saxons. The -t gridders, who were ticketed The Garnet's 5-5-1 performance was marked by the fine play of sophomores Hook Wheeler, Larry to oblivion following the loss to the Ephmen, are now in fine shape to close out the 1969 season. ACCUTRON 11 425\ Water resistant, sweep second hand, applied. Ro)Tlal} numeral dial, $135.00 The Accutron tuning fork replaces the outdated balance wheel that's found in all watches. Stop by so we can tell you more. Starting with the right time of day. From $110.00. ACCUTRON\ by BU LOVA i It goes hm·m·m·m. J) •) ·} •) ., 't· Tal' Charle lawyer wh novel \ Lover\ le federal 1: obscenity, Union Nove m \Pornogra Remba1 • for 8 p Immediate will appea Chi Psi Lo ,l Rembm previously on the grc historic After seve States Su1 in favor o landmark CHAN The fi, obscenity· · Rembar'~ Obscenity' the Geoq Award as Book\ of Remb~ Oceanport of Harva1 Columbia has been practice i since 1947 -~- ..-I The Mot ANl c 'The B~ 'The 8:301 Nott IV Reservat

4 .I ·•• Chris ·' Bob back 1 J y the s fall 1 by VOL. 99, NO. 20 Fanny'sMan Gives Porno Talk In 016 the that until d ,.; t the t meet rday ander the last ishing antly- to over keted e loss in the , . • . • ' I .. >· \ ,, 1) 1) •) Charles Rembar, the lawyer whose defense of the novel \Lady Chatterley's Lover\ led to a revision in federal laws dealing with obscenity, will <lecture at Union on Wednesday, November 19, on \Pornography\. Rembar's talk is scheduled • for 8 p.m. in SS 016. Immediately afterwards, he will appear at a reception at Chi Psi Lodge. Rembar's defense of the previously banned novel was on the grounds of its literary, historic and social value. After seven years, the United States Supreme Court ruled in favor of his argument in a landmark 1966 dedsion. . -~\ '·. ;.;: ~ 2 CHARLES REMBAR The fight to revise the obscenity laws is. recounted in Rembar's \An End to Obscenity\ which received the George Pdlk Memorial Award as the \Outstanding Book\ of 1968. Rembar, a native of Oceanport, N.J., is a graduate ·> ,l of Harvard University and Columbia Law School and has been in private law ·) , practice in New York City since 1947. ., ..,. 1 The Mountebanks Present AN EVENING OF CHEK.HOV AND IONESCO 'The Bear' 'The Lesson' 'The Bald Soprano' 8:30 Nov, 20, 21, 22 Nott Memorial Theater Reservations call: 346-4098 Fou.nded at Union Colles;.e 1877 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, NOVEMBER 18,1969 Marchers assemble outside of the Capitol in Washington, D.C. photo by George Kaplan. Moratorium= Impressive Display By M. PAUL ANDREWS Somewhere a loudspeaker crackled with Arlo Guthrie singing, \This Land is Your Land, Thjs Land Is My Land.\ You could hear him singing but you could not see where the loudspeaker was, or where he was, because you could not see around or over the tidal wave of people which had swept onto the wide grassy expanse around the Washington Monument. It was early Saturday afternoon-- around 1 :30 p.m. -- moments after you had finished the massive New Mobilization Against the War in Vietnam march from the Mall facing the Capitol to the Washington Monument. It was 24 hours after you had reincarnated Michael Randall, Indiana serviceman killed in Vietnam, for fhe \March Against Death\ past the White House and Capitol, and three days after you had arrived in a quiet but expectant Washington, D.C. on the eve of the biggest mass anti-vietnam war protest to date. From tlte beginning you had had doubts about the outcome of the November March ()ll Washington Moratorium and Mobilization demonstration. There were those who had said it would be anticlimatic to the October 15 effort; those who pointed to President Nixon's November 3 speech as an indication that the October demonstration had had no effect on him, with the implicati<;>n that the Washington demonstration would be equally futile. Too, there had been those quick to remind you of the ominous threat of violence. When you had left Wednesday morning the Mobilization parade still had not been granted a permit. Randall, Indiana. You hung it on a string around your neck. You had not known Michael Randall, but for the next three hours you would be Michael Randall reincarnate. You repeated the name in your mind. But by the time you had arrived in Washington late that afternoon permission for the parade had been granted and the possibility of violence somewhat eased. You had gone to Georgetown University, where a friend of a friend had a brother who might be able to put you up. You had found his dormitory room, met, shook hands, and moved in for the next four days. You had spent Thursday getting settled; finding out what the plans were for the various demonstrations. The opening candelight procession of the \March Against Death\ beginning at 6 p.m. let by Dr. Spock had filled its quota, so you decided to wait until Friday morning, when you walked to the five-tent Moratorium headquarters· hard by the Potomac River beneath the Arlington Memorial Bridge. Across a highway lay Arlington National Cemetery, symbolic Continued on Page 5 Concordy Election Set The election of the next Editor-in-Chief of Concordiensis will be held Tuesday, December 2, 1969, outgoing editor Neil S. Kramer announced today. The last edition of the term will be published Wednesday, December 3. The new editor's term of office will cover the winter and spring terms of 1970. Any member of the student body is eligible to run for the editorship. All candidates must file written notice of their intention to run with Kramer by Tuesday, November 25. The outgoing editor is commissioner of the election, according to the most recent constitution of Concordiensis. ALL FRESHMEN MUST SUBMIT THEIR FRATERNITY BIDS ON MONDAY, NOVEMBER 24, BY 1:00 P.M. IN WEST COLLEGE. The paper's senior editors will meet Monday, November 24, to determine those staff members eligible to vote, in compliance with the constitution. On the night of the election, the candidates will each make a presentation to the senior editors regarding their individual qualifications for the position. The senior editors will then make a recommendation to the staff, who will vote by secret ballot between 9 p.m. and 10 p.m. on the night of election. The outgoing editor will vote only to break a tie. \There are at least four men on the staff who are suitable for the job of editor,\ Kramer said. \The contest will certainly be interesting,\ he added. Neither Kramer nor former editor Richard E. Patterson, Jr., will stand for election, the pair ,declared in a joint Su.nday night statement. \Once is enough,\ each said. PRICE TWENTY CENTS Board Scores \Pessimism\ F orMarchers Prescribing a .. merger of idealism and patriotism as the shot of adrenalin\ America needs, Prof. Joseph B. Board, Jr., examined the country's problems \beyond Yietn:.un\ Thursday night. Board, is chairman of the C allege's political science department. A former Rhodes Scholar and Fulbright Lecturer, he is seeking the Democratic nomination to run against Representative Daniel E. Button for Congress in 1970. Arrest Doubts \An a typically American pessimism has descended nn the country,\ Board said. Speaking to an overflow crowd of 250 in the College's Social Sciences auditorium. he said \we must work to arrest these doubts, not arrest more students.\ Foreign policy after Vietnam will have to focus on \discovering how we are going t o avoid f u t u re repetitions of Vietnam, part i cuI a r I y in Laos, Cambodia, ami Thailant.l ,\ Board said, \yet avoid the twin pitfalls of isolationism and an overzealous at tempt to be the policeman of the world.\ Public Interest \It is time to reassert a sense of the public interest, against the unbridled pby ... of hypocrisy, corruption, and materialism,\ he told an audience that included most of the Union and Skidmore students bound for Washington, D.C. and the second Moratorium. Board specifically attacked \an American tax structure that looks like it was designed by lhe Sheriff of Nottingham for the purpose of robbing the poor and giving to the rich.\ Simpler Age Asserting that ··we are now facing the fundamental test of mass self-government, Board . said that test of a \democracy fathered in a simpler age\ would demand a union of both ideal ism am! patriotism. ·\I'm not about to hand over ideal ism to extremists of the Left, or patriotism to right wing fanatics,\ he said. Board, whose address was sponsored by the college's Political Forum, has a Ph. D. in government from lndiana University, a law degree from that university's law school, and an M.A. in Jurisprudence from Ox ford. A Scotia resident, Mr. Board, 38, reads seven languages. I I I I I I I I I !

PAGE~ Sa_qes W ac),es The unfortunate dispute over comprehensive exatns in Division II and the likelihood that there will be no pass-fail winter term demonstrate the sad state of '\faculty power\ here. The students have organized themselves into an effective political force on camp11s, as shown by the successful disp,osition parietals, off-campus housing, AFROTC, and semi-official College recognition of the moratorium. But the faculty seem unable to rally any real force against the stu.dents, but particularly against the administration. The pass-fail issue shows this wealmess best. The student body supported the notion overwhelmingly, but because the student managers of the proposal were insufficiently acquainted with the rigmarole involved in getting a motion through committee. A delay of at least ten weeks has been en.countered. By contrast, when the administration was anxious l.as.t sru:ing to. get approval of the engineering and admnustrative sciences doctoral program, it was passed along to the Faculty Council with a note insisting on quick action, so that the program could get under way directly. The implicit assumption was that faculty approval of the program was merely pro forma. Although there may have been administrative concensus on this matter, we doubt that there was any such consensus in the faculty, and whatever the sentiment, it could not match the 24-l of support that the pass-fail proposal had from the student body. Further evidence of the relative impotence of the faculty legi.slative process is the Social Sciences faculty's problem With comps. The entire division was unable to make a decision on this matter, although it appears that the. individual departments will handle the question eqmtably. But the failure of the whole division to make a meaningful decision rests in their habit of relying on the administration to both do their homework and ~ake their . d:cisi~ns in crucial matters. In the comps Issue, . admtrustrative officers took no part, with consequent irresolution. \Those who make peaceful revolution impossible n1ake violent revolution inePitable.\ Published Tuesday and Friday during the Union College academic year by the Student BodY of Union College, Schenectady, New York. Published Thursdays during the Upward Bound Project by Upward Bound· students in residence at Union College. N a tiona! Advertising Representative: National Educational Advertising S e r vi c e , Inc., Co liege Publishers Representative. 360 LeJCington Avenue. N. Y.C. Editorial Office. Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, Whitehurst Printing & Binding Co., inc.. 416-41& Fifth Ave .. Troy, 235-4450. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20c a copy; $6 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. NeilS. Kramer Editor-in-Chief Carl Goldsand & Jeff Bim ......... Business Managers H~~ Fein ..................... . Managing Editor Wilham Ouzer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Executive Editor P~ter Weingold .................... Campus Editor Richard Patterson .............. Contributing Editor M. Paul Andrews .................. . Editor-at-Larre J~y Saslow .................. Photography Editor Bill Holleralt ....................... Sports Editor Staff: Mike Swirsky, Lloyd Bums, John Schosheim Robert A . . Levine, Danny Shocket, D({J)id Uguccioni. Louis Snitkoff, Tony Faga, Doug Wong. M. Grossman: Georg_e Kaf?lan, Charles Long, Mark Shugoll, Greg Hamlm, M,rke Humber, Dennis Alsofrom, Stu Moss, Bruce Garber, Hank Levine, D({J)id Conrey, Peter Bickerman. We have tried to assign a eause lo the facully's naiural but unhealthy reliance on th_e adminiskation in decisions on College policy, lmt one practice stands out above ail others. Although there is a faculty t.:0mmitlec that makes recommendations to the trustees on faculty salaries, promotions, and tenure, the President acts as an intermediary and is empowered to revise the committee's recommendations. We are not charging that the President remembers those who have opposed his plqns when it comes time to make out the payroll, but we have encountered so many faculty who cite a fear of retribution as the cause of their docility that we propose an alteration in the current practice. This is specifically not a \stop beating your wife\ accusation. By the nature of it, the faculty members concerned are not going to tell the President that they suspect he will remember their opposition when it comes time to figure salary increments and such. But their fear of this kind of retribution has to be set aside and a major procedural change is called for. At that time of year when faculty contracts are let, the administration should disti·ibute to the faculty (the students need not be privy to these proceedings) a list of all the cases where the recommendations of tile faculty committee on salaries, promotions, and tenure were not followed, with an anonymous description of the particulars. The Comp Ed Board maintains just such a record of its decisions on appeals, which is available in the library for the perusal of any student. The anonymity of individual faculty people cannot he complete, for anyone who does a fair amount of detective work could probably take a report of the nature we suggest and figure out the names of those concerned. But we suspect that there are fewer men on the faculty who are liable to turn into gossips and busybodies then there are men who genuinely afraid to speak their. minds on controversial issues because they are unsure of whether that opposition may be reflected in their next contract. The President's Response It is generally not our policy to comment on \Letters to the Editor,\ since we believe that each man's argument best speaks fo~ . i!self without t~e be,nefit either of our approbation or cntlctsm. But the Pres1dent s letter in response to the open letter ofWilliam Wicker sorely misses the point that Wicker raised. The central argument in Wicker's criticism of the recent tuition increase is that Union may be becoming an institution only for the very rich -- those who can afford $4,000 a year and ~ore -- and the very poor -- those who can qualify for fianancial aJ.d of $1,500 or so, which is the difference between costs here and at the State University. The President has not answered that question in his letter. It is not, admittedly, a query easily solved. But it certainly. involves more than refuting Wicker's remark aboat inadequate facilities. The student has the right, to know if the College is on the way ~o I?ricing itself out of t~e market for students of average means; tf, rndeed, the College ts headed towards being an institution large~y for rich boys who cannot meet SuNY university entrance reqmrements. ZELL~'IER'S NORGE--·- LAuNoRY AND CLEANING VILLAGE AT 1559 VAN VRANKEN AVE. (at Hottie Street) DRY CLEANING WASHERS 8 Lbs. .... .. $2.00 12lb. ___________ .30 4tb.Min. ______ $1.00 20lb .. __________ .35 DRYERS 30 lb. _ .. _____ .. _ .50 lOMin. ---·-- ___ 10 Open Mon.-Fri. 8 A.M. to 9 P.M. ·Sat. 8 A.M. to 5 P.M. Closed sundays IF YOU HAVE NEVER HAD NORGE DRY CLEANING DONE WE CAN BET YOU WILL BE AMAHD DOUGLAS .'-lchmcctaJy 's !. caJrn,; .\fen's ,\'hue ,'-,'tore BOSTONIAN* BATES* WALL-STREETER HUSH PUPPIES* WALK-OVER * SEBAc;.p.MOCS MANSFIELD* SNOW & AFTER SKI BOOTS Phone FR 4-8577 31-9 State Street Schenectady, N.Y. $1 OFFPURCHASE OF SHOES UPON PRESENTATION OF 1.0. CARD NOVEMBER 18, 1969 BliTHER ' ' All freshmen must submit their fraternity bids on Monday, November 24, by I :00 p.m. in West College. ****** WSNY/1 240 JOlnS Schenectady Cmnmunity College in sponsoring a band show and dance Friday night, November 21. The dance will be held at the college, located • r ~,_ on the corner of State Street and Washington Avenue, downtown Schenectady. Proceeds from the dance will benefit the United Fund and ' t h e n e w I y f o r m- edWSNY /1240 Schenectady Community College ,, Scholarship Fund. Tickets are $1.25. ****** Library hours over the , Thanksgiving Vacation. Library hours will be as follows: NOVEME Fra' I shoul the CollE treasure private re: is from Address o the Nati< Conferenc meeting: \I th come \1 stop ret nothing Our her inalienat our frier If we Cl own fn certainly will be 1 door'. religion windo¥. choice brother 1 By fr1 just that Wednesday, November ' .. 26--8 :30 a.m.-5: 00 p.m. Thursday, November 27-Closed We, t1 group! 'rights' bilities t rights ... Friday, November 28--9:00 a.m.--5:00p.m. Saturday, November 29--Closed Sunday, November 30--6:00 p.m.- I O:OOp.m. Monday, December 1--Regular hours resumed The Night Study will be open when the library is closed. ****** EUROPE It's the lowest round-trip air fare ... and it goes right to Luxembourg in the heart of • Europe. Daily departures. No group restrictions. Just spend 22 days or more in Europe and return by May 15. Call your travel agent NOW. ,,------------------------~ 'I To: ICELANDIC AIRLINES 1· . I 630 Fifth Ave. (Rockefeller Center). I I N Y.l0020. PL7-8585 I; I I 1 Please send descriptive Folder CN.I I Name I I I I I I I I I : I Address. I II : I I 'I I I C1ty I I I I State ZIP I I I ·1 My Travel Agent is 1 I I ·~------------------------' .L., ICELANDIC AIRliNES ~ },!).f:fj,JJJJJ!J STILL LOWEST· AIR FARES TO EUROPE of any schedule!! airline. If we freedom the free1 to chc fraternit: own way the folic eliminatE in the ' campus Knights B'nai Rotary, you nm follow. The 1 Life will life und< Russia1 commun socialisr versior Ameri, socialist: ·- answer. man wil so-called men ... If we the vacu Imagine .. · SDS~ NS and p activists youth ty original) We hav lnstr Reb To the Ed ., In H Katzman'1 t 0 p 0 i misstatem , his letter publicatio school wanting unnecessa got rid howeve Consfderit effort m acceptablt merely ~ unharmed Sec one more seri1 accuses n:

969 bmit on by ight, ted treet r m- are the ion. as e r be is • I\- I •' ' ... <• J . NOVEMBER 18, 1969 Frats .. Speak? To·the Editor: 1 should like to share with the College Community a treasure unearthed in my private reading. What follows is from the Presidential Address of Louis L. Roth to the National Interfraternity Conference at its most recent meeting: \I think the time has come when we should stop retreating. We have nothing to be asham.ed of! Our heritage gives us the inalienable right to choose our friends and associates. If we cannot choose our own fraternity brothers, certainly the next step will be the 'knock on the door'. Free choice of religion will go out the window as surely as choice of fraternity brother went out.\ By free choice - I mean just that! No strings! We, too, are a minority group! We, too, have 'rights' - and responsi- bilities that go with these rights ... If we lose the battle of freedom on the campus - the freedom of the right to choose our own fraternity brothers, our own way - you can be sure the following decade will eliminate the same rights in the years spent after campus life is over. Knights of Columbus, B'nai B'rith, Masonry, Rotary, Lions, Kiwanis - you name it, they will follow. ·\ ;,. The American Way of Life will be gone. The new life under socialism, be it Russian or Chinese communism, be it Fabian socialism (the English version) or slanted American style of socialism wil:l be the answer. The dignity of man will be lost in the so-called equality of all men ... air to art of · res. Just in May agent .. If we are eliminated - the vacuum will be filled. Imagine the growth of SDS, NSA, DuBois Clubs, and probably other activists of the Hitler youth type.\ (Italics is the original). We have been warned! I·. With kind regards, Paul F. Bryant, Instructor in Economics I I CN. I· II ' . .. ·, ~ I· Rebuttal • • • To tire Editor: _ In response to Mr. ~ Katzman's letter I would like to point out several misstatements. First, deeming , his letter totally unworthy of publication in even a high school newspaper and wanting to save him any · .. ! . · unnecessary embarrassment, I got rid of it. I did not, however, rip it up. Consfdering it not worth the effort needed to make it acceptable for the toilet, I merely threw it out ~ unharmed. Second, and somewhat more seriously, Mr. Katzman accuses me of castigating the · · Letters to the Ed it or · Union Peace effort when I was not even at any of the planning meetings. This too is untrue. I attended several of the meetings and decided for reasons not to be fully discussed here to make my effort for peace in a different manner. l also resent his implication that Katzman is the only person in the world who has ever marched for peace. His holier-than-thou liberal attitude is exactly why I didn't take part in the March. When the editorial in question was published there were as yet no plans for the November Moratorium. I am pleased to think that my writing so incensed Mr. Katzman that action was taken. I did not actively support the Moratorium. I did not fully support it in spirit. But I did think it somewhat worthwhile and the purpose of my editorial was merely to prod to action not to accuse of apathy. PETER J. WEINGOLD, '71 Small Staff To the Editor: It has come to my attention that in the past four years the quality of the Concordiensis has deteriorated to such an ex tent that I can only compare it to a high school paper or the New York Daily News. Where I at first concluded that this was the work of the editor and his staff, I apologize. Martin: Why $2400 It has been brought to my attention that the paper is- being published with only a limited staff. Therefore it is now evident why the past issues have been either incomplete in their coverage of events at Union or misinterpreted, and that what is needed is. a building up of the staff and the responsible participation of Union students. To the Editor Mr. Wicker's letter about the announced increase in tuition raises two questions: (I) What justifies the increase? and (2) Does Union have facilities to warrant what it charges? I shall provide a forthright answer to the first question on December 11, to faculty at their scheduled meeting that afternoon and to students a week earlier, on December 2 (since the 11th falls during examination week). The place of meeting with students has not yet been selected but will be announced in this newspaper and over WRUC well in advance. A partial answer to the second question is available in comparative data of two kinds. The first has to do with what other private four-year colleges in this State offer in comparison with Union. According to an analysis just published by the Facilities Comprehensive Planning Program of the State Education Department for nineteen functional categories of space, Union has markedly more space per full~time equivalent student than the average in fifteen categories. In one (estimated value of gross space) it is above the average but only slightly so, and this analysis does not include, of course, the $7-million-dollar Sci e nee-Engineering Center now under construction. In tluee, it is below average (\General Use Facilities,\ \Medical Care Facilities,\ which refers not to infirmaries but to medical facilities \as part of a program of insturction\ and in \Auxiliary Space,\ which refers to facilities associated with student recreational and social life). To allay any suspicion about what I call \markedly more space\ I provide below the figures for all nineteen categories. The second set of comparative data is internal. Since 1966. we have spent $8,754,949 at Union on construction. The Science-Engineering Center and the addition to the Heating-Chilling plant will add $7,000,000, making a total of $15,7 54,949. In a report which I presented to the Trustees this summer, to the Faculty on the afternoon of October 15, and to students that evening, I outlined additional construction projected over the next four years that will amount to roughly $10 million dollars more. We have formal plans in the making now for alterations in Richmond (Summer, 1970), renovation of North College (1970-71 ), expansion of the infirmary (Summer, 1970), ex tension of the Library (1971-72), and addition of dining and kitchen facilities (1971-2). In 1971-2 space will also be opened, in Carnegie or elsewhere, for a College Center. It is quite true that some private colleges, in this State and others, have better facilities than we do. But is is patently untrue that we are either seriously deficient or indifferent to the desirabliity of improving on what we have. A final word, one of warning, may be in order: quite apart from the amortization of capital costs, each million dollars of construction entails at least twenty-five dollars annually in maintenance and operation. It is possible, therefore, to build oneself into serious deficits even when the building itself is provided for by gifts. Sincerely, Harold C. Martin President gross space gross less residential net assignable space net assignable less residential estimated value in thousands classroom space laboratory space office space (faculty) study facilities special use facilities general use facilities supporting facilities medical facilities residential facilities instruction and research space library space general adininistra tion auxiliary (less resident) other assignable It is the responsibility of the Union student to help the Concordiensis in its endeavor to provide a service to the college community and properly inform those concerned with its activities. Robert M. Krauss '70 Attack. • • To the Editor: Two weeks ago an editorial written by Peter J. Weingold appeared in the Concordy attacking the efforts made by the Student Social Action Co. and student body in fulfilling its moratorium ·committments. His attack was totally unsubstantiable. Our October march and three day program· was hailed by the news media as the best in the area. The Union Campus alone sent between 100 and 150 students to Washington this past weekend. Mr. Weingold condemns the apathy on our campus and praises our efforts as at best second rate to Williams and Wesleyan. He seems to tne to be indicative of this apathy. He claims it is up to us to lead the fight, yet Mr. Weingold has never attended any of the meetings held by the Student Social Action Co. where plans are suggested. All of these meetings are open and people with helpful Average UNION 306.4 495.8 172.9 266.1 197.3 322.0 111.5 172.8 6_78 7.9 16.8 23.2 18.6 28.2 18.6 32.4 16.2 32. 12.2 33.6 25.6 21.5 6.1 17.7 0.2 0.0 85_8 149.2 55.4 103.8 13_0 16.3 14_5 24.5 26.2 14.3 2.4 13.9 Data on p.rivatc four-year colleges in New York State (all figures represent square-feet per full-timc-cqu ivalcnt student): PAGE 3 suggestions are urged to attend. It would appear that this editor is a victim of the most unf or tun ate malady, verbal diarrehea. (sic) In response to his editorial I wrote a Letter to the Editor. This was ripped up (sic) by Mr. Weingold. This seems to be a sorry attitude for an editor of a school paper to take. In the furure months efforts. , we hope to gain additional support and sincerely hope that this highly communicable disease of verbal diarrehea is finally arrested .... Peace Barry Katzman, '70 Allen Replies To Students To the Editor: I would like to discuss here two recent communications to the Concordiensis: David Lehv's 1 e tt er announcing his resignation from the Social Science Division Committee on the Senior Year; and Len Simon's piece entitled ''Faculty Shortchanges Students.\ David Lehv's letter was candid and honest, and I respect his feelings, even though I regret his decision. For he was a notably effective contributor to the discussion of complicated and difficult problems. He brought an intelligent and informed concern to the discussion of major Field examinations, and to other aspects of the senior year. It is wholly understandable that he, and the other student members of the committee, should feel distress and even bitter ness when their recommendations (agreed to by three of the four faculty members of that committee) were turned down by the full Division faculty by an overwhelming vote. In this connection I would offer a few comments, however. (7-l) to defer comps for this year did not accurately reflect the wide range of views even in the committee itself on the subject of comps; like many committee votes in sensitive matters, it seems to have been to a considerable extent dictated by the need to reach a decision, and this was the most acceptable of the several alternative proposals that were suggested. Again, while committees are presumed to be representative, it was clear to me at an early point in our deliberations that the faculty members of the committee ·happened not to reflect the prevailing sentiment of a majority of the Division. And in 'making this point I am in no way criticizing the faculty members of the committee who voted to recommend suspending comps for this year. They, too, gave much serious thought to the question. Finally, committee recominendations must of course be given serious consideration by the body to Continued on Page 4

·· Pea(e--Can:c-ert- Saturday The Mason Proffit, a decade of popular rock. They particularly when sung in Chicago based rock group will write their own music and conjunction with the steel play two concerts in lyrics. guitar and the five-string Memorial Chapel Saturday, \Songs should be songs,\ banjo. They also do Nov. 22nd. says songwriter Terry Talbot, three-part harmonies similar Billed as the \Mason 1 £ th to those of the old Byrds. spo cesman or · e group. Their lyrics can be described Proffit Peace Concert,\ the .. We don't want our messages as subtle social comment. sessions will begin at 7 p.m. to get. drowned out by and 10 p.m., and will be distorted power. Crosby Stills Two Hangmen, for example, recorded live by Stereo criticizes today's conforming Sound of Schenectady. and Nash are doing this same mind. Tickets will be sold at the sort of thing, and we're glad \Peace is our bag,\ says door for both concerts at music is going this way.\ Talbot, \and so is music. One $ The five-man group started of our goals is to make the 1.50 per person. · · th · · ter\al aud1\ence reml\nt\sce, and we wnting etr own ma 1 Brought to the tri·city area by Merriam & Bobst Productions, the Mason Proffit is a sample of the next Allen's Answer Continued from page 3 which the comrruttee reports; and a recommendation carried by a vote of seven to one merits attention, especially. But the Division of Social Sciences was no more bound by that reconunen- dation than is the United States Senate required, morally or legally, to accept the present report of its Judiciary Committee in favor of Judge Haynsworth's nomination to the Supreme Court. If, for any number of reasons, a committee report does not meet with the approval of a majority of the parent body, it will fail of acceptance. This leads me to Mr. Simon•s article. Both as an individual and as the elected chairman of the Division of Social Sciences, I feel an obligation to comment on his less than temperate discussion of these matters. I take exception, particularly, to his views that \the Social Science faculty showed contempt\ for its committee; that ••once again it acknowledged that it had little or no concern for the interests of the student body;\ that comps are a species of \punishment\, and are so designed; and that the faculty is \goin~ out of its way to administer tests which are designed to prove that they didn't do their jobs right in the first place.\ Such statements are simply not accurate. Further, this is not just an attack on ~----·--- 1 Pennel Esso Service N ott Street Corner Of Van Vranken 1 __ _j KING'S ATLANTIC SERVICE STATION 717 Nott Street We Cater To Union Students and discovered that blue grass do this by telling them rock sound came natural to something they are familiar them. Their vocals remind with - like love -· in a totally you of Peter, Paul and Mary, original way.\ the policies of competent professional people; it is also an attack on their good faith and their motives. The Social Science faculty did not show contempt. It registered a very real awareness of the large problems involved. Above all, we recognized that students should be told as quickly as possible what they faced in the way of major examinations this year. I am particulai-ly distuJ;bed by Mr. Simon's charge that comps are a form of punislunent, or additionally, a method of revealing professional incompetence. If his first criticisms inpugn the faculty's good faith. these represent an unjustified and uninformed attack on thier_ professional competence. This is not the place to ·discuss the educational merits of major field examinations, or other aspects of the senior year. It is, perhaps, the place to suggest that the cunent fascination for laying the faults of higher education to faculty shortcomings is a dangerous piece of over-simple nonsense. Faculty should not be immune from constructive criticism: the essence of a university commity is that it constantly engages in such criticism \. nd college teachers are not infallible; like other human beings, including students, faculty members may occasionally even confuse their personal attitudes with eternal verities. But it is about time that we spoke out against the irresponsible view that everyone except those who have spent their professional lives in teaching and research should decide what is a \relevant\, and effective curriculum. In this situation, I protest the view that a scheme of major examinations is a form of punishment, or a last desperate device for correcting three and a half years of incompetence. That kind of accusation does violence to the whole spirit of higer education, and, to put the issue into the present context, it slanders an able and dedicated body of college teachers. Two points need to be made in conclusion. First, the -Division's overwhelming vote to continue comps for this year reflects the desire of the majority not to abandon an educational device that most of us feel has significantly contributed to strengthening standards at the College over the past ten years. The vote was not, however, a blind affirmation of the st1tus quo. We need to examine all Will Turn You On To The Latest In UNISEX FASHIONS WALLACE BEERY SHIRTS BELLS-BELLS-BELLS LANDLUBBERS SUEDE VESTS· AND OTHER NICE THINGS Throw Something On And Corne See Us ! PLAZA 7 SHOPPING CENTER Troy -Schdy. Road Next To Jamaica Inn Lathatn, New York 785-5444 Daily 10:00 · 6:00 Thurs. & Fri. Til 9:00 Sunday 1:00 · 5.00 Special Through November· CRUSHED VINYL \WET LOOK\ jACKETS 25% OFF aspects of the senior year, and we intend to do so. My last point is an important one. Both Mr_ Lehv's distress and Mr. Simon's anger are explained in no small part by the failure of Administration and Faculty to work out the precise terms .of student participation in College business. I am ready to acknowledge my own fault here, too. We really do need to be clear in this area. But as we discuss these issues we also need to meet each other with mutual respect. Civility NOVEMBER ~8, 1969 Photo by George Kaplan and reason are equally important to the dialogue. Sincerely Neil W. Allen, ProL of History THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeoh; from all over the world. 406 STATE ST. Everyone is a little worried when it comes to buying a diamond. It's a once-in-a-lifetime purchase. And most people know little about diamonds. So choosing isn't easy, We know, and we are doing our best to help. For years we have listened to young couples. We under· stand their likes and dislikes. We respect the budgets which they have to consider. Our main job is to make you happy with your di· amend purchase. To advise you how to get the most for your money and how to select a diarnond and a ring style you will be proud of at any time. Putting ourselves in your shoes makes sense. It has created nothing but satisfied customers and friends for us. If you like our attitude we hope that you will come to us ... whenever you're ready for your diamond. November St Fo1 We a , headquart P.M. Thur down, fla: other Cfl . • gentlerr good-hUJ removed J us. Mobe flooded w waiting tc , or place Agai11st ments \ continuall ' was sing corner. W A.M. the we had n · over Wasr so we file the size double. \ A.M., the in the ro< night was the boc jostling tr All the had bee< students Universit} '' outside a! rally at tl Stone (\! hate to : Nixon i~ man.\) a cast of \I , banned fr Maryland gr~up, sa Shme, a that day, The girl t cry and c they di followed group of their rel heads, sil incense. We r headquar '• African and they 2 A.M. degrees o march fo1 big thrill. reported .. only to f crowds march's 1 not go. found o Union. CARNI\ lhe 1 made c Wasl1ingtc like a ca and Am hawked e got to wended c bodies UI further. \ be seen, platform of it. Be rose the 't· Press,\ v .. Kill the The happened

969 Allen, tory TED over November 18, 1·969 Students Converge For D.C. \Carnival\ Wilson Offers Year's 2nd Organ Recital By DANNY SHOCKET We arrived at Mobe , headquarters, Washington, 10 P.M. Thursday. We had driven down, flashing peace signs to other crowded cars. One • gentleman, to show good-humored contempt, removed his upper plate for us. Mobe headquarters was flooded with college students, waiting to be assigned rooms or places in the March Agai11st Death. Announce- ments were being made continually, and somebody ' was singing loudly in a corner. We were to march 2 A.M. the next morning, and we had no desire to look all - over Washington for housing, so we filed into a side room the size of a West College double. When we awoke at 3 A.M.~ there were eight people in the room. The rest of the night was a continual war of the bodies,. each person jostling the· other in his sleep. HAVENS All the colleges in the area had become a haven for students, and ,American University was crawling with '' outside agitators. There was a rally at the college with I.F. Stone (\I hate to say it, I hate to say it, but Richard Nixon is an unscrupulous man.\) a folk group, and the cast of \Hair who had been banned from Georgetown and Maryland Universities. The group sang \Let the Sun Shine,\ and for the first time that day, the sun came out. The girl behind me started to cry and chant, \They did it, they did it!\ This was followed by the \Krishna a group of students who, for their religion shave their heads, sing, dance, and sell incense. We returned to Mobe headquarters, which was an '• African Methodist Church, and they told us to wait tmtil 2 A.M. It was about thirty degrees outside, and a 2 A.M. march for 4% miles was not a big thrill. Still, at 2 A.M. we reported to the organizer only to find out that due to crowds at Arlington, the march's beginning, we could not go. They must have found out we were from Unil>n. CARNIVALS AND FLAGS lhe next morning, we made our way to the Wasl1ington Memorial. It was ' I ike a carnival, with buttons and American flags being hawked everywhere. When we got to the Memorial, we ~· wended our way through the bodies until we could go no furtl!er. The stage could not be seen, because the press platform was directly in front of it. Between each speaker rose the chant, \Move the 't· Press,\ which later became \Kill the Press!\ The truly great things happened·· in the crowd. A half million people, led by Pete Seeger, stood, gave the peace sign, and sang over and over, \All we are saying/ Is give peace a chance.\ When the cast of \Hair\ began to sing, everyone got into circles and started to dance. On my left was a 45 year old mother dancing and grinning like the rest of us. RED BADGE We missed the tear gas, but others in the car were not that lucky. The tear gas permeated their clothes, and the car became filled with gas. Those who were gassed said they thought it was all over, and just wanted to lie down and let the cops get them. Driving back, the ltighways were jammed with broken-down busses. Hot Shoppes had to close because they were overcrowded. Those that were open were mobbed, and soon all the vending machines were emptied. The good feelings of the march had not worn off; though tired, cold, and hungry, everybody remained friendly. The rallies aren't to intimidate Nixon anyway, they're community reunions. ---Hugh Wilson, acting chairman of the department of the arts, will present the second in a series of six organ recitals at Union Memorial Chapel Sunday., November 23, at 4 P.M. The 1969-1970 recitals are the last in a three~year series, and include a heavy emphasis on French organ music of the 20th Century. Later concerts in the series will include guest organists Miss Betty Valenta and Miss Helen Henshaw, both of Schenectady. Works scheduled for this Sunday's concert are Prelude and Fugue in F maj()r, Canzona, and two choral preludes by Dietrich Buxtehude; Introduction and Toccata by William Walond; Concerto 9 (The Hallelujah) by George Frederick Handel; Prelude and Fugue in F minor by Marcel Dupre; Tu es Petra by Henri Mulet; and parts IV and V - of Nativity of the Lord by Olivier Messaien. The third concert in the series, featuring Miss Valenta, is scheduled for Sunday, January 11. nWHY ARE YOU STANDING?\ It rained all night Did the rain have any special meaning? Now the sun is shining. Wltat does this mean? Thousands are gathering and marching. There are masses of people, but no crowds. Everything is calm, quiet, orderly, and dignified. No pushing, no shouting, no hurry. Peace is the goal; it is also the manner and the mood. We are demonstrating for peace; we are also demonstrating peace. One of the onlookers asks: \Why are you marching?\ We ask: \Why are you standlng?\ We are marching to a much larger drum than Thoreau. It is a drum which beats for everyone. It keeps beating whether you hear it or not. The conversations are serious and subdued. There is no talk of college football games or of the three men in space. There is no rain in space, no sanshine there either-- and no nourishment. Rain and sunshine are needed for nourishment -for the wet taste of birth and for the miracle of growth. We are experiencing both i,n Washington today. There is nourishment here. Robert Hetman, Chairman Department of Economics Brass Q~int To Play Here Friday ---The Venetian Brass, one of the nation's foremost brass instrument ensembles, will present the second concert in the Schenectady Museum-Union College series Friday. The program, to be held in the Memorial Chapel, will begin at 8:30p.m. Formed just three years ago, the group performs programs .chosen primarily from the \Golden Age\ of brass writing (the 16th and 17th centuries) and outstanding contemporary repertoire. The works scheduled for Night their concert here are Hindemith, Morgenmusik; Monteverdi and Gabrieli, 16th and 17th century Venetian canzonas, madrigals and ricerares; Dal1l, Music for Brass Instruments; and Holborne, Pavanes, Galliards, Almaines, and other Short Airs. The program is presented with the support of the New York State Council on the Arts. The next program in the Museum-College concert sedes, on February 1, will feature the soprano Miss Frances Yeend. Moratorium: Impressive Display Contint,£ed from Page 1 of the ,march's intent. Nearby a funeral beH tolled. You had quietly waited in line with hundreds of others before going through brief orienta:! ion sessions in the tents and receiving a placard bearing the name of Michael Again you had to wait before entering the single file processi<m. When finally you did y()u walked slowly, silently, across the bridge. Sympathizers driving by showed the peace sign. At most one car in a hundred had its lights turned on or manifes.ted some sort of disapproval. Yoll walked. You walked the 4. 1-miie route around the Lincoln Me m or i a I t o Constitutil>n A~enue; then up 17th Avenue to Pennsylvania Avenue and the White House. You repeated the name Michael Randall to yourself beforehalting momentarily in front of the White House to shout ii at the front door, slowly, dearly, loudly. Then you kept walking on toward, the Capitol, where coffins were displayed to deposit the placards. Along the procession route volunte-er marshals and other demonstrators offered free candy and cigarettes besides instructions on what to do next. Few police were in evicence. As you reached the point where Pennsylvania Avenue turns directly toward the CapitoL, the sky, leaden since mornin.g, darkened. There was lightning and thunder, and then rain. The raif1 splashed down and formed rivers along the curbs. You kept walking, and the marshals managed smiles and said words of encouragement. In five minutes your pants and slloes and sock,s were soaked. Then your coat, shirt and underclothes soaked through. but by then it no longer mattered. You sloshed before the Capitol; then aro11nd to where the coffins were displayed. A strong wind whipped up, reraderih.g any protection unle~s against the driving rain. Umbrella tops were ripped away. A storefront display window caved in and crashed to the· pavement. The rain mixed with the wind and cold to form sleet and hail. As you ran for shelter you saw the other marchers maintaining the procession toward the Capitol. Then it was over and you were on a bus back to Georgetown. The bus moved slowly through rush hour tTaffic. and when you rose to ge,i off you left large drops of water on the slick seat surface. By the next morning everything had dried, and you set off walking for the Mall because btlsses weren't runni11.g downtown. When you f.Lnally reached the Mall you could only stand shoulder-to-shoulder in the crush of people and wait for instructions. FinaHy a loudspeaker announced that you would not get to march because the parade permit was about to expire and there was no room for :you on Pennsylvania Avenue. You ducked down a sidestreet and jl>ined the parade midstream. As far up and as far down the l 2-block stretch of Pennsylvania A venue all you could see was people, many high sch.ool and college students, but also young married couples, some with samll children or baby strollers, middle aged and even elderly persons. The march was subdued without being solemn. Washington, D;C. police1nen lined the route, many of them smiling and friendly in standard uniform with billie clubs but without riot helmets. Parade marshals made jokes (\Helicopters estimated 800,000 people -- that's not including 200,000 C. I. A. agents\) and kept the march moving like an irresistible glacier toward the Washington Monume11t. Then you arrived at the Monument and the rally, and the incredible swarm of people. The detractors had been wrong. The \March Against Death\ and Mobilization parade had been even more climatic than the October demonstrations and were outdoing the Apollo 12 moon shot for the top story of the day. The demonstrations had co1ne off without violence -- most news reports had been and would be careful to distinguish between the Moratorium and Mobilization efforts and the militant demonstrations which brought on tear gas and use of force. More importantly, as you scanned the giant throng you could not help but t!Link that there would be no way for President Nixon to igm>re the demonstration. He could say that it would not affect him, as President Johnson had once said, and he could refuse to comment on it or at tempt to minimize its influence as President Johnson once did, but in the end it wmtld affect him as it had affected P_resident Johnson. As you left the rally later in the afternoon to leave for home you were handed a flier announcing plans for local community action in the December new year's eve moratorium to \herald in the peaceful 70s,\ and you reflected that if this \Vas the last peace demonstration you participated in it would only be because the war would end tomorrow.

PAGE 6 An opportunistic Hamil ton College football squad parlayed eight Garnet' turn overs and a surprisingly strong offensive attack into a 30-3 victory over the Dutchmen on Saturday afternoon. A d1iU ed, sullen Fall Weekend crowd viewed the loss on Alexander Field. Saturday's defeat finally laid the Gamet to rest at a very disappointing 3-6 final mark, while the Continentals improved to 3-5. It was a fitting com:lusion to a dismal season marked by injuries, mistakes, and sporadic offensive play .. The Hamilton attack was not supposed to give the Garnet defense nightmares, but the Continentals showed surprising offensive strength on Saturday, grinding out 253 yards on the ground and adding 83 more through the air. Halfback John Beck led his teammates to the victory, rushing for 143 yards and scoring two touchdowns. When fullback Rich Jaszczak fumbled on the first Garnet play from scrimmage following the opening kickoff. he was giving the fans a taste of things to come. Key mistakes, including six lost fumbles and two passes intercept ions, cost the Dutchmen the game. The Garnet miscues set up one Hamil ton score and enabled the Continentals to operate from fine field position all afternoon. Hamilton scored the second time i1 had the football, marching 43 yards in seven plays. The Continental defense had recovered Jaszczak's fumble, but the Hamilton offense wasted the opportunity as they were haJted on a fourth-down play inside the 20-yard line by the Garnet defenders. The Union attack could do no better, running three ineffective offensive plays and punting. Jim Sabella's poor, wobbly kick gave the Continental offense excellent field position on the 43 and the Hamilton attack went right to work. Beck capped the drive as he burst off-tackle and raced I 9 yards into the end zone for the game's opening touchdown. Hamilton's two-point conversion attempt failed, and the Continentals settled for an early 6-0 lead. Later in the opening period quarterback Ken Pearce got the Garnet aerial attack working, moving the Dutchmen down to the Hamilton 38 yard-line. Pearce fumbled the center snap on the ensuing play, however, and the alert Continental defenders fell on the loose Graubart & Sons may run small ads, but they ·have big values. • Schenectady's famous dromond shop, for three generatrons l 166 Joy St. Three U nian Graduates in Family. . . . . ·Gridders Fall, 30-3, End 3-6 ball to kill the threat. Hamilton came right back, moving for one first down on the ground. On a crucial thin.l-down play from the Union 46, quarterback Mark Rice rece~ed fine pag protection and hit Dick Brown coming olit of the backfield. Brown hauled in the flair pass and raced down the sideline until he was bumped out of bounds at the Garnet 2-yard line. A few seconds later Beck plunged over from yard out for the touchdown and swept end for the conversion to stake Hamilton to a 14-0 edge. Early in the second By BILL HOLLERAN quarter the Garnet gambled and lost, setting up the third Hamilton touchdown. On fourth and one, the .Dutchmen seemingly went into deep punt formation, but Pearce took the snap on a sneak. He was stopped cold by the Continental front four, however, and Hamilton took over on the Union 37 yard-line. The Hamilton ground attack methodically moved the ball downfield, with Brown and Beck alternating on the carries, until the latter dove over tackle from the one for the score. Beck added his second two-point conversion of the afternoan to give the Continentals a commanding 22-0 lead. Pearce got the Gamet going once again midway through the second quarter. Wingback Rich Swan, who caught six passes for 47 yards, and tight end Pup Gould each grabbed one aerial to move the team 39 yards. Gouid's catch, a beautiful, leaping one-bander, and a pass interference penalty against HamiHon put the Dutchmen in fine position. The drive stalled, however, and the Gamet settled for three points. Sabella boomed the ball NOVEMBER 18, 1969 fifteen feet oveF the crossbar from 35 yards out to put the Garnet on the scoreboard, 21-3, shortly before the first half ended. The Garnet kicked off to start the second half, hoping to get the ball back quickly and push across a much-needed touchdown. The Continentals, however, had other ideas, marching 78 y.ards on another slow, methodical drive for the tally that all but ended the contest. Rice sneaked in f}om the one for the score, and the versatile Beck passed to split end Mike Carpito for the 2-pointer. Any remaining Gamet hopes were crushed when the usuallv sure-fingered Swan fumbled the ensuing kickoff, with Hamilton recovering. The college you can't get into without a job. The college is ours-Western Electric's Corporate Education Center in Hopewell, New jersey, Like your college, ours has a campus with dorms, dining halls, labs and a library. Uillike yours, you can't get mto ours without a job. A job at Western Electric. . Our students-engineers, managers and other professionals- develop and expnnd their skills through a variety of courses, from corporate operations to computer electronics. To help bring better telephone service and equipment, through the Bell System. For information contact your placement office. Or write: College Relations Manager, Western Electric Co., Room 2500, 222 Broadway, New York, New York 10038. An equal opportunity employet. @ Vl~.~te_~~ .. ~-~~-~-t[~-~ . Fou11ded VOL. 99, NO. 21 SCH EI\I'ECT AC Activist Ziegler P'ro111otes Comp Ed J·r. Proi,ect Study .!: ( · Of Free University Here by DOUG WONG Alan Ziegler, leading campus activist, led a meeting of students and faculty discussing a free university at Union, Tuesday evening in the Humanities faculty lounge. This meeting was the fourth in a series dealing with the subject of \What's Wrong With Union?\ The idea of a free university and the possibility of a Spring term Freshman Camp Ed course in conjunction with a Junior Year Project: \The College as a Social System: Persistence and Change\ was discussed. This group of Freshmen would explore the possibilities of establishing an Experimental Institute at Union and would discuss ideas for the institute. The free university system of education would work in conjunction with the college. Generally, the courses in the institute would have no formal structure and the students in it would live communally in a coed, rented house. In this type of system, Ziegler said, the students could approach their education any way they wanted to. Faculty members would be available to help any student who requested academic guidance. Ziegler was hopeful that the institute would become a Junior Year Project, but the Comp Ed board ·has to be petitioned first. The ultimate goal would be a full time Experimental institute at Union. Alan Ziegler expressed willingness to receive any ideas about the institute or the educational system in general. During the meeting, Murray Grossman, a PHONES After eight weeks, the telephones in the Concordy editorial offices have been installed. For all the thousands of you who have been trying in vain to reach us, we suggest you defer your complaints to the Schenectady branch of Bell Telephone. Concordy's new phone numbers are: 377-8613 and 346~8614. The newspaper staff is in the offices from 7: 00 p_.m. to p1idnight, Monday and Thursday evenings. At all pther times, messages can be left at the Student Activities Office, 346-8686. freshman, ·discussed his concept of education and stressed the need for students to lea.rn for themselves through living. Alan Ziegler is holding these meetings as an Independent Project. He is exploring the concept of education and different changes that can be made in the system itself. The meetings are open to all students who wish to voice their ideas on ways to amend and improve education as a whole. Professor Faster of the Philosophy Department is sponsoring Ziegler's project. All students who wish to voice their ideas for changing Union or simply to discuss the educational system here, are urged to attend the next meeting, on Tuesday, December 2nd, in the faculty lounge of the Humanities Build:i.JJ.g. ABORTION Schenectady's Linton High School will be the scene of a debate on \Abortion Laws\ Monday night. The antagonists in the debate will be Dr. Alan Guttmacher and Dr. J. Grant Harrison. Dr. Guttmacher is pres id en t of Planned Parenthood-World Population, and has written several articles and books on subjects involving contraception. Dr. Harrison is former regional Director of the National Federation of the Catholic Physicians Guild. This program, part of the Freedom Forum series, will begin at 8 P.M. Da1 Co im Fac wh mo sug 1 Div can to Co dus pia rei exf mo pl< dec in , stur wid of pla: COL me cor the car on Do Se1 CUI ha ap~ to pol m; cor the the cro ref stu' Kel rea \We long to share with you and 1 Proffit Peace Concert. Memorial Cha~

PAGE 2 NOVEMBER 21, 1969 trying to \start at the top\. War Over To the ,£ditor: letters to the Ed it or college and national events. Comments should be confined to the editorial page and to signed features articles. A newspaper,. .ftrst and foremost, should be just that: news paper and not a journal of opinion. I am concerned that the biases in the paper be recognized and eliminated. Nonetheless, I feel that my criticisms are shared by many and I intend to use my candidacy as a forum ·to air them fully. Specifically, I will speak with the senior board of Concordiensis on December 2 and expand on the above points. If they are received seriously, both the paper and the student body will be well served. This, ultimately, is what I am after. Phil Ochs has said. tl;it the way to end the war in Vietnam is for everyone sirnply to declare it over. Therefore: We, the North Section of Second Floor West College, hereby declare the War over. We urge aH other living units to do the same. We also urge Peter J. Weingold and Barry Katzman to kiss and make up. Sincerely, 24 Men of Second West Gati, KoKot Revisited To the Editor: Professor Neil Allen of the History Department has responded to my article on comprehensive examinations in an illogical and non-academic manner. Although his letter was long and well worded, it lacked the cogent arguments necessary for a meaningful discussion of the problem. Professor Allen's letter contains six paragraphs directed toward my article. The first quite accurately recapitulates my charges. The second and third state, but do not attempt to prove, that these charges are false. He also offhandedly refuses to discuss the merits of comps, apparently feeling that factor irrelevant to the discussion. The fourth paragraph is an arg;ument against, \The current fascination for laying the faults of higher education to the faculty shortcomings.\ Since it was a faculty meeting which made the decision, I could see no one else to blame. Also, Professor Allen repeats his claim that comps are not a form of punishment, but once again declines to provide any evidence in that direction. His fifth paragraph states that the faculty's overwhelming vote reflects the desire not to abandon camps, and further, that all aspects of the senior year must be examined. Both points are obvious to all involved. Professor Allen concludes with the statement that a meaningful definition of student participation in academic affairs is needed. I can not agree more. Hense one can see that Professor Allen has not really responded to my allegations, but has merely recapitulated Pierce Runs To the Editor: I am · writing to declare openly my candidacy for Editor-in-Chief of Concordiensis and to state my reasons for so doing. I believe that the newspaper of the student body of this college can and should be of a high standard of journalistic excellence. Further, it should be a publication of which students can he proud. I for one do not believe that that high standard has been attained or that students are proud of their newspaper. The primary reason for my action is to allow me to air my views (which are also, I believe, the views of many others) where they will be taken seriously and where they may have some effect. I sincerely want to see Concordiensis become a better newspaper and I think that it can if the new Editor-in-Chief and his staff them, labelled them invalid, defended faculties in general, and stated several points on which we are in agreement. The only point I can grant Professor Allen, unless he agrees to debate the real issues, is that my tone was less polite than it might have been. Pent up anger at the woeful lack of student voice or vote in academic affairs is the obvious cause of this anger, and I apoligize to any faculty member who took (offense) at my indictment of that body. I can only wish that Professor Allen had written an angry letter that presented a more cogent and meaningful argument against my allegations. This rebuttal is not meant as a slander on Professor Allen's talents of expression, but merely as a call for merul.ingful, opert, discussion of the salient issues relating to comprehensive examinations. I have never taken a course from Professor Allen, but have heard nothing but good things about him as a professor and a man, and I ho that this challenge w i 11 initiate sorne meaningful student-faculty rapport. Sincerely yours, Leonard B. Simon '70 There are four important campus committees presently seeking new members. Students interested in promoting innovations on campus should take note: The Security Committee looks into the role of the campus police, and suggests appropriate reforms. The Communications Committee has the responsibility of overseeing and modifying the campus communications media, including W.R.U.C. and Concordiensis. The job of the Tuition Committee is to investigate present tuition policies and future plans. The All-College Academic Committee wants students with ideas regarding changes in the curriculum. Students interested in applying for any of these vital posts can get applications in the Student Activities Office. make an honest commi ttment. This committment should be .along several lines;. all are important to tile paper's general improvement. One should certainly be in the area of better and more accurate news .coverage. Hand-in-hand with this, however, must be more objectivity i.n reporting of the I do not pretend to be as qualified as some of the other candidates, at least in a technical sense. And I recognize that I am prone to criticism for a lack of experience on the paper and Yours truly, Steven Pierce '71 70 SEASON NOVEMBER 24 FEBRUARY 16 MARCH 16 DEBATING ABORTION LAWS DR. J. GRAtH HARRISON Guild, Medical Practitioner, Past Regional Director of New York State Catholic Physicians Guild, Member of Governor's[ DR. ALAN F. GUTTMACHER Medical' Practitioner, Past Regional Director of New York State Catholic Physicians Guild, Member of Governor's Committee on New York State Abortion Laws 1968 LAW AND DISORDER ADAM Y ARMOUNSKY Emeritus Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, President of· Planned Parenthood-World Population THE PROBLEM OF ENVIRONMENT BARRY COMMONER Professor of Law, Ha!Vard Law School, Former Assistant Secretary of Defense (ISA) Director of the Center for the Biology of Natural Systems, Washington University FREEDON FORUM, INC. is a non-profit, CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND CONSUMER PROTECTION RA'LPH NADER -Consumer's Crusader FREEDOM FOR Ul\1, INC. is a l\'on-partisan organization devoted to public discussion .of currA~t ·issues. Memberships for the series are: $6.00 · individuals, $1.0.00 - couples~ $12.00 · family, $2.00 • students, $25.00 · sustaining. Tickets for single programs are not sold. IVIemberst.ips are availabie from· Membership Chairman, Mrs. Fred E. Luborsky (EX 3-7545') and at tl'le d()or ptecedil'lg each program. All programs will be held at Linton High School, Schenec:tady, at 8:00 p.m. ' 1

1969 :op\. 1tmy nany my :oair [will oard on 1 on r are the >ody fhis, fter. ruly, ~ '71 \IT ic ·e )( h ~­ ,. 'I , .. ,, NOV,EMBER 21, 1969 \The art of being wise w,hat to overlook'' FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDULE Fil'st Term - 1969-70 'Conflicts in examinations should be reported to Mrs. De Groff in the Office of the Registrarnotlat~r than Monday, December l, 1969. Examinations will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the co<le ·Of the buildings to be used. BH-Bailey Hall BU-Butterfield Hall CH-Carnegie Hall 'BE-Electrical Engineering Bldg. G L-Geology Laboratory HH-Hoadley House HU-Humanities Bldg. PLPhysics Laboratory PY-Psychology Laboratory ss~Social Sciences Bldg. MONDAY, DECEMBER 8 9:00-11 :OOA.M. Classics 12 (History of Rome: The Republic) - in HU 115 -Prof. Reece Economics 10 {Elementary Economics, Part I)- in SS 016- Mr. Me Namara History 81 (Sub~Saharan Africa in the pre-Colonial Period)- in SS 014- Mr. C. Holmes French 10 (Basic French I) -in HU 114 -Prof. Le Clerc Anthropology 11 (Man and Culture)- in SS 115 -Mr. Rheubottom Biology 15 (Continuity of Life- Core V)- in BH 304- Prof. Butzel Biology 51 (Ecology)· in BH 307- Prof. George Chemistry 10 (Fundamental Chemistry I)- in BU 201 -Profs. J. Daniels, Maycock, Schaefer Chemistry 14 (The Structure of Matter) - in BU 201 -Prof. Fishman Chemistry 44 (Advanced Physical Chemistry) - in BU 201 -Prof. J. Daniels Mathematics 36 (Rea I Variable Theory I) - in CH 108 - Prof. Maddaus Physics 15 (Quantum Effects and Fundamentals of Modern Physics) · in PL 105 · Prof. Henry Psychology 47 (History and Systems of Psycho\ogy) ·in PL 202 -Prof. Calabria E.E. 42 (Servo Systems and Control)- in EE 22 - Prof. Russ 2:00-4:00 P.M. Econo.IJl.ics 31 (Microecon~mic Analysis)- in SS 016 -Mr. Bryant English 64 (The English Novel in the Nineteenth Century)- in HU 11 0 - Prof. Ullmann Russian 10 (Basic Russian I)· in HU 117 -Prof. Weston Psychology 10 (A First Course in Psychology) Section 1 - in PL 202 - Prof. Huntley Section 2 - in PL 202 -Prof. Girdner Section 3 - in SS 115 -Prof. Calabria Section 4 · in PY 113 · Prof. Graves E. lO (Systems, Computers~ and Design- I) Section 1 - in EE 22 -Prof. Goodheart Section 2 - in CH 301 - Prof. Eisenstadt S~ction 3- inCH 108 ·Prof. Male Section 4 - in EE 22 -Prof. Hoffman .E. 20 (Rigid -Body Mechanics) Section 1 -in CH 110 ·Prof. Shanebrook Section 2 - in CH Ill - Prof. Be Vier tUESDAY, DECEMBER 9 9:00-11 :OOA.M. Economics 43 (Economic Growth and Development) ·in SS 010- Mr. Kershner English 13 (Major American Authors)- in HU 115- Prof. Niemeyer English 53 (Shakespeare: The Early Plays) - in HU 11 0 - Prof. Murphy History 10 (Colonial Period of America, 1607-1776) -in SS 016- Mr. Wells History 51 (English Social and Intellectual History from the Reign of Elizabeth I to 1660)- in SS 112- Prof. N. Allen History 66 (Latin America tmd.the United States)- in SS 117- Prof. Bristol Chinese 10 (Basic Chinese I) · HU 116 · Prof. Woo Spanish 12(Basic S:panish Ill) - in HU 117 - Mrs. Vinick Philosophy 17(Contempora:ry Theological Ethics)· in HU 114- Prof. Snider Political Science 52 (Sovie1 Foreign Poi.icy)- in SS liS- Prof. Gati :Biology 14 (Origin and Diversity of Animals ·Core IV) - in PL 202 - Pmf. Roth 13iolog'y 48 (Biochemical Aspects of Cell :Physiology}- in BH 304 ·Prof. Lambert Chemistry 34 (Quantitative Chemistry) ·in BU 201 ·Prof. Schaefer Chemistry 46 (Advanced Inorganic Chemistry) - in BU 201 - Prof. Weick Physics 32 (Electricity and Ma.grretis.m I) - in PL 204- Prof. Wylen Physics 40 (Introductory Q11antum Mechanics)- in PL lOS- Prof. • zs J. PAGE 3 the art of knuwing William. James Hooverrnan C.E. 42{Soil Mechanics)- inCH 304- Prof. Harlow E.E. 30 (Transmission Networks)- in EE 22- Prof. Goodheart M.E. 30 (Dynamics of Linear Systems)- inCH 301 -Prof. Haag 2:00-4:00 P.M. Comp. Ed. 22 {The Concept of the Hero}- in SS 016 · Prof. Niemeyer Camp. Ed. 27 {Human Development in the Tropics)- in SS 115 -Prof. Bristol Camp. Ed. 57 (The Nature of Mathematics)- in CH 201 ·.Prof. Gillette Camp. Ed. 60 (Man as an Organism)- in BH 304- Dr. Rozendaal Camp. Ed. 63 (Introduction to Astronomy)· in PL 202- Prof. Titus Camp. Ed. 69 (Materials and Civilization- in CH 111 ·Prof. Eisenstadt German 11 (Basic German II) - in HU 112 ·Prof. Warde Chemistry 42 (Advanced Analytical Chemistry)- in BU 201 ·Prof. Lanese WEDNESDAY,DECEMBERlO 9:00-ll :00 A.M. Latin 31 (Latin Literature) - in HU 114 -Prof. Reece English 21 (The Early American Novel)- in SS 115- Mr. Stineback English 50 (Literature of the M'iddle Ages)- in HU 112 ·Prof. Niemeyer History 37 (The Age of Democratic Revolution 1760-1848)- in SS 112 ·Prof. Hansen History 73 (East Asian Civilization- China and Japan).- in SS 016 -Mr. Thurston French 11 (Basic French II)- in HU 016- Prof. LeClerc German 12 (Basic German III)- in HU 117- Mr. Stangl German 30 (Readings in Modern German Literature)- in PL 202 -Prof. Klemm Spanish 30 (Readings in Contemporary Spanish and Spanish American Literature)- in HU 115 - Mrs. Rawe Political Science 62 (Judicial Process)- in SS 117 -Prof. W. Daniels Biology 54 (Early Animal Development)- in BH 304- Prof. Rappaport Mathematics 30 (Ordinary Differential Equations)- in CH 201 -Mr. Strait Mathematics 40 (Orthogonal Functions and Boundary Values)- in CH 210 -Prof.Stone C.E. 40 (Structures II) - in CH 305 -Mr. Pikul E.E. 31 (Applied Laplace and Fourier Transforms) - in EE 22 - Prof. Craig · A.S. 40 (The Professional Officer I) · in HH - Lt. Colonel Me Gee 2:00-4:00 P.M. English I 0 (The English Literary Tradition: Medieval and Renaissance) Section I - in HU 014 - Mr. Peck Section 2 - in HU 117 · Prof. Freund History 89 (Historiography) - in SS 117 - Prof. Bristol Chinese 30 (Modern Chinese I) - in HU 116 -Prof. Woo Chinese 40 (Modern Expository Chinese I)- in HU 116 -Prof. Woo Spanish 10 (Basic Spanish I) - in HU 114 - Mrs. Rawe . Chemistry 30 (Organic Chemistry I)- in BU 201-Profs. Sheffer &Martm Mathematics 44 (Topology I)- inCH 210- Prof. Loughlin _ Physics 13 (Electric and Magnetic Effects and Optics) - in PL 202 -Prof. Schick and W. Schwarz THURSDAY,DECEMBERll 9:00-ll:OOA.M. History 12 (Jacksonian America, 1812-1840)- in SS 016- Prof. Potts Russian 30 (Readings in Contemporary R u s sian Literature) - HU 116 -Prof. Weston Sociology 34 (Minorities and Social Movements)- in SS 014- Mr. R. Nelson Mathematics lO (Calculus I) Section 1 - in PL 202 -Prof. Gillette Section 2- in SS 115 -Prof. Maddaus Section 3 · in BU 201 · Prof. Bick Section 4 - in BU 201 · Prof. Roulier Section 5 - in HU 115 - Mr. Strait ' Section 6- in SS 112 -Prof. Loughlin Section 7 - in BU 201 - Prof. Seiken Section 8- inCH 201 -Prof. Ballard Section 9 - in EE 22 -Mr. Riley Mathematics 12 (Calculus II) - in PL 202 -Prof. Behan and Mrs. Corman Mathematics 14 (Calculus III) Section 1 - in BH 304 - Prof. Stone Section 2 · in BH 304 - Prof. Leach Section 3 -in EE 22 -Mr. Riley Mathematics 31 (Linear Algebra)- in BU 201 -Profs Seiken and Roulier Continued on page 4

' ~ i i :i s ~ i I I I I I i ! I PAGE 4 'ontinued from page 3 Psychology 42 {Theory and Practice of Mental Testing)- in PY 113- Prof. Pearce E. 31 (Fluid Systems Anal~sis)- i~ CH 301 -Prof. Ketchum 2:00-4:00 P.M. Camp. Ed. 31 (Music in Western Life and Culture)· in SS 016 -Prof. Wilson Music 10 (Introduction to Music)- in SS 016- Prof. Wilson Greek 10 (PriBciples of Greek)- in HU 116- Prof. N. Johnson German 10 {Basic German 1)- in HU 11 S -Mr. Stangl German 40 {German Literatm:e from the Micldle Ages to the Enlightenment) - in HU 110 -Prof. Klemm Sociology 10 (Human Society I)· in SS 115 ·Mr. R. NelseN Statistics 10 (Introduction) Section 1 - in l'Y 1113 -Mrs. Hesse Section 2 -in SS 012 -Mr. Smith C.S. 18 (Principles of ·Digital Computers) - in CH 201 -Mrs. C prman FRIDAY,DECEMBER l2 9:00-ll:OO A.M. Latin 10 (Principles of Latin) ·in HU 110 -Prof. Reece Latin 35 (Roman Elegiac and Pastor(l-1 Poetry)- in HU 119 -,Pr0f. Freund • Economics 11 (Elementary Economics, Part II) - in SS 113 · Mr. Kershner Economics 32 (Labor and Industrial Relations)- in SS 115- Mr. Prosper English 35 (The Structure of Language)· in HU 016- Prof. A .. Nelson English 40 (Criticism)- in HU 014 -Prof. Ullmann History 2 7 (Controlling Forces in American .. Economic ' \ y, ~ >- . ,,. .•• ' !il r ... ' ' . . ' \' . . . . ~, ~ ,, i1 < ;;>.. \ Development)- in ss·d14- Prof.~Fink;ft\~'{ .. \1 ~ ·:~.\~· ,k. ,j \\'F.~· N. ~~!~ry 31 (Europ.({aD;.Wo~l\~ o~-~~e-~}1~. X~ntury) }fl ss 112 -Prof. French 12 (Basic French IJ:I)- iif I=Il:Pl'l~Sl'\'Ptof. Thomas French 31 {A General View of Frenc,h Literature)- in HU) 15.- Prof. Thomas .•. •. . ·lf . •. !. ·· . :· ·· .' ,J, J. m l':Jtfiao) French 41·{The Theatre arld Classicrsfn)., in HU -1 ~8,;rP-th:P!ii.J!Cre!t10 Spanish '11 (Basie Spanish II') - in HlJ ·1 '14 -1\1rS. 'Astiz ! 1 · ,q l r: i r·:r \r: ., t Political Science 61 (Public Admin!~tration)'~ if1\ 1 SSt:J(1)}:2'- Prof:·:·; Underwood Anthropology 31 (Family, Kinship, and Socializaftbn)llli~ · 'SS 117- Mr. Rheubottom · 1; ;·;uut r· Mathematics 18{Introduction to Abstract System~)- inCI:;I·Q l'O!\iMi. Behan .•; .. ·. · : ' ·~·JJ1J:.;;;!::I-d3. Mathematics 42 (Vector Analysis and Complex Vafiahl6Sfr~J~~--tillr 207- Prof. Leach ·· · ·-;! ·{:d'JJ~;nH-lffr Psychology 24 (Social Psychology): in P~ 202 ·:P~~f ,¢a'l~~~m~t~~ Psychology 30 (Theory of Personahty) · mPY l13 ~Prof C(!},fiNe,fli·, E. 24 (Electric and Magnetic Circuits) , · ci,: : \ 1 luJI'>'{<d- {q Section 1- in EE 24 -Prof. Driscoll ·-· 1 _'; ,-: lu~.o2-22 Section 2- in ~E 22,- Mr. Fung , . .,.. , 1 1 .~ C.S. 16 (Nume~tcal Methods for Computers) '·.111 E£·2:'2 ·~!: ~~~~2NI C.S. 20 (Machine Language Programming~ -m EE 16-cMr. Ple~\Brl-s 2:00-4:00 P.M. ,\ P R 0 FILS SION AL TYPING SERVICE. (:B \I ~e:lectrie typt'wri ler, Equippt>d with Greek and :\lath svmbol:=;. Y ~1u choice ~f t y fJ t- s t y l e . Ex1krie nc:e<l in the sis typin~. Picl up and d t' l i ' e r v . C a II ~For three · Generations/ Those Who Know ... Have been recommending • FOR THE MOST BEAUTIFU'- TIME IN YOUR LIFE •• , DIAMANTE'S Enioy Our fine Home Cooked ltalion Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. Th• Brownell Gate on Nott Str .. t Open Daily I 0 to I A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to 1 A.M. -·- - Phone 372-0528 PARK PIZZER·IA lta'lian Grinders Our Specialty ., Behind Davidson Hall - One Block from the CaMpus 25 Park P (g ce Schenectady, N.Y. KING'S ATLANTIC SERVICE STATION 717 Not't Strcci We Cater To Union Students lO'o 5ervJce D;s.c.Q.Dnt' . 4~9-6978 aB~ time. 166 JAY STREET HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER ''3. UN/Ofl(GRADl/AiESJN GBAUBART·FAJVj{f.'Y,\~ FOR'fiONESTSERVICE AND Gb0[) 1 JEW,;L.Grl·rr3 1' ••••• .. • •

NOVEMBER 21, 1969 Three One-Act Pl.ays Funny,Absurd,Great An Evening of Chekhov And Ionesco, being presented this weekend by the Montebanks, is an evening of .comedy. The mood ranges from light to black, and something in the three plays .r will appeal to everyone. The first play of the night, Chekhov's \The Bear,\ is a simple and predictable comedy that pits a widow, determined to remain faithful to her late unfaithful husband, against a recently confirmed woman-hater. Yes, that is exactly what happens, but in the course of events there are some fine lines and genuine humor. The acting by Melinda Perrin, Arnold Drogen, and William Breiman, is more than adequate for the limitted roles. Dean Hoffman's ·direction gives the play a fine fluidity. The evening picks up considerably with the two Ionesco plays. The first, \The Balk Soprano,\ is an absurd excursion into suburbia. It is a devastating picture of people who lead empty, useless. lives and their desperate attempts to amuse . themselves. The play is a compilation of nonsequiters that begin to have meaning when spoken by the characters. The acting by April Starbuck, David Hendrich, Denise Gibbons, C. Elliot Bardsley, Michelle Clair, and S. Lurie Simons is commendable. That which I especially enjoyed was April Starbuck's opening monologue chronicling her evening, and Mr. Bardsley and Miss Clair discovering that they were man and wife. I will also fondly recall Miss Gibbons in her French maid's costume . Eight Long Weeks Later Busses,Toga,Food,Peace by JOHN HARRIGAN like you're a fascist because The direction, by Christopher Kennedy, kept the play moving at quick and comic pace. Mr. Kennedy has a sure idea of what his stage is capable of adding to a play. The third, and most enjoyable play, is the black comedy \The Lesson.\ Here a student eagerly comes to a reticent professor, and soon becomes his captive. The assault on academia starts out as a gently lampoon, but soon becomes a hilarious comdemnation. Since my feelings on orientation were recorded eight long weeks ago, the frenzied pace of my first term in the Capital District has left me little time for gathering my thoughts for publication. Surely one can not claim to understand a school or an area such as the Tri-Cities in eight weeks. However, certain observations do come to mind. II For i.nstance, it was discovered one night (or, ·early one morning) that the busses do not run on · schedule, but on whim, from Albany. It also seems that ••just the other side of the . state campus\ means a two-day journey. As for Troy, that lush resort on the banks of the Mohawk, it appears even more beautiful than it is given credit for. Skids ~ To the north, the lovely Hamlet of Sara.toga Springs was soon discovered, as was its population of princesses and queens. D' Andreas, of course, was the place to go, we were told, so we arrived · early and after four hours at t;the bar there were 102 Union men and approximately seventeen/and/a/half ·Skidmore girls. The \half' is a certain coed with the ••unisex look\ and a Peter . Fonda button which t hopefully means .she is indeed a girl. With the odds agin' us and our eyes a 'blurrin' we headed back south to beautiful, downtown Schenectady. At ••home\ at Union we 'discovered in the first two months the reasons for coming here. For instance, .. I've found professors are \extremely attainable and courses to date, have been demanding. As for day to day .•• , . ..,_Hlu, you soon have your meal number memorized and cockily brush past the table at West, flashing your I.D. 'with one hand and grabbing the last glass with the other. The term plods on and you \realize that finals are near. Each weekend seems to last a day longer. People get on vour nerves by saying things you had a date from home for Fall Weekend whom you haven't seen in awhile instead of going to Washington to enjoy three days in the rain and cold. Finally, with Noah's rain record in sight, we had the frrst snowfall and realize that the much talked about and feared Scheneciady winter is almost upon us. Oh, well, maybe the winter will bring new thrills. Oh yeah, I also discovered that if you're for peace, you have to be licensed by Barry Katzman. The play benefits greatly from the best performance of the evening by Roger Stewart as the Professor. Stewart becomes an old intellectual, and the pose he assumes as he begins a personal reminisce could have half the faculty after hitn. Dean Hoffman, directing the play, and has Stewart and Barbara Dreier as the pupil working together· · Moratorium Men Discuss On Local Radio Program by LOUIS SNITKOFF Peter Starkweather and Rich Sloan, appeared as the guests of Steve Fitz on his two-hour discussion show on WGY radio Tuesday night. The show, broadcast from 8-10 p.m., was plugged as \A Discussion With Two Union Seniors on the Moratorium and Mobilization.\ The format of the program was that of a duscussion, with Peter and Rich answering questions from F itz and from listeners who called their queries. Most of the discussion centered around the US committment in Vietnam rather than the Moratorium activities. Rewarding Starkweather commented after the program that the audience reaction to the discussion was particularly interesting and that the experience was rewarding. Reaction, according to Starkweather, ranged from liberal to reactionary. One listener called in and said, \I'd like to congratulate you · boys for all you've been doing.\ Another , caller implied that the entire Moratorium effort was communist sponsored. Starkweather dismissed his views as \ridiculous.\ Another topic discussed by Sloan and Starkweather was the role played by the Washington police in the Moratorium. Fitz also asked them about the SDS, the Yippies, and about the beginnings of the original Moratorium plans. Although they did not discuss their provisions for an actual troop pullout, Peter and Rich did specify why the US involvement is wrong. Depending on future Moratorium activities in December and January, Fitz may have them on another show early next year. DOUGLAS BOSTONIAN • BATES* WALL-STREETER HUSH PUPPIES* WALK·OVER • SEBA~MOCS MANSFIELD* SNOW & AFTER SKI BOOTS Phone F R 4-8577 319 State S1reet Schenectady, N.Y. $1 OFF PURCHASE OF SHOES UPON PRESENTATION OF I. 0. CARD PAGE 5 Charles Rembar, lecturing in SS 016. Photo by CHARLES LONG Attorney Rembar Scores Censorship Lady Chatterly's lawyer . predicted \soon no. books are going to be legally suppressed,'' in a Convocation talk last night. Charles Rembar, whose defense of the novel, \Lady Chatterly's Lover\ led to a revision of federal laws dealing with obscenity, discussed •'obscenity as. a moral and a legal problem\: Magazines with iUu strations, movies and theatricaL productions are liable to some kind of legal control soon, Rembar said. \The courts will be moved by two considerations,\ he said. First, \they will have to make a distinction between public and private communication.\ \Control of expression is not the government's business; control of conduct is,\ he siad_ The courts might take a different view towards what actors do on a stage thart they have to what is written in a book, he said. Troy - Schdy. Road Next To Jamaica Inn Latham, New York 785-5444 Daily IO:OU- 6:00 Thurs. & Fri. Ti~ 9:00 Sunday 1:00 · 5:00 Declaring at the beginning of his talk that \I'm against pornography,\ Rem bar argued that the First Amendment gauranties of freedom of expression a~e intended to protect speech and writing .that \we don't like.... It is there for the dissenters and the minority, the expression we find hateful.\ .. ~'To my mind,\ he said, a great deal of what is n-ow published and shown on the screen is at least objectionable and may be harmful. But it is not as bad as transferring tb the. government the power to tell us what we may view.\ Rembar's fight to revise the obscenity laws is recounted in \Art End to Obscenity\ which received the George Polk Memorial Award as the outstanding book of 1968. \\'ill Turn Y uu On To Tlw Late~t In UNISEX FASiliO'l\S WALLACE BEERY SHIRTS BELLS·BELLS·BELLS LANDLUBBERS SUEDE VESTS- AND OTHER NICE THINGS Thro\v Somethi11g On · 'A1id Con1e · ~re. :Us ! Special \ove1;1ber- CRUSHED VINYL \'WET LOOK\ JACKETS 25% OFF

NOVEMBER 21, 1969 P~GE6 Jln Todax's Scene Willie McCovey: Most Valuable Player? When the baseball writers of America yesterday selected Willie McCovey of the San F ra.nc isco Giants as the N at.ional League's Most Valuable Player, they made a controversial and perhaps unwise choice. At least two other candidates, namely Torn Seaver of the New York Mets and Henry Aaron of the Atlanta Braves, are just as valuable to their teams as McCovey. McCovey, of course, put on a colossal show of power this season, hammerillg 45 home runs and driving in 126 runs. He compiled a .320 batting avevage, a mark good for fifth in the league, while the Giant slugger's homer and RBI totals led the circuit. On the basis of McCovey's raw power and batting average, then, the Giant slugger would be a logical choice as the MVP. The Most Valuable Player Award, however, is supposed to be awarded to the player who is most valuable to his team. McCovey had a great season, of course, but his team, the Giants, did not. The traditional runners-up in the National League came in second once again, after leading the wild, see-saw National League Western Division during most of August and September until bowing to the Atlanta Braves. It was the fifth straight second-place fmish for the Giants, who have not won .a pennantsince 1962. Leadership Ability Thus Willie McCovey, although he led the league in two departments and had a fantastic year, obviously did not possess the leadership ability or the \charisma\ to overc orne the Giants' second-place jinx and lead the San Franciscans to the flag. Seaver and Aaron, however, were instrumental in leading their respective teams to division titles. Seaver, of course, is the symbol of the Mets--the \wunderkind\ of baseball. The 25-year old right-hander led the league in victories this season in compiling a 25-7 record, and his 2.21 Final Grid Stats RUSHING: Yds. Loss Player Rushes Gd. Gd. Net Ave. TDs Rich Jaszczak, FB 99 381 -34 347 3.5 2 Joe Kiekup, FB 84 284 -8 276 3.3 1 Larry Sykes, HB 100 314 -51 263 2.6 4 Larry Bloom, HB 33 124 -10 114 3.5 2 Rich Swan, HB 7 53 0 53 7.6 0 Jim Sabella, E 1 -3 -3 -3.0 0 Dan Kerkhoff, QB 10 7 -54 -47 - 4.7 0 Ken Pearce, QB 36 20 -225 -205 - 5.7 0 Union Totals 370 1183 385 798 2.2 9 Opp. Totals 515 2247 274 1973 3.8 25 PASSING: No. & Player Att. Camp. Comp. Yds. Had Int.TDs Conv. KenPearce,QB 264 112 42.4% 1396 18 8 Dan Kerkhoff, QB 20 3 15.0% 33 2 0 Union Totals 284 115 40.5% 1429 20 8 Opp. Totals 176 77 43.7% 819 lO 3 RECEIVING: Player Cuaght Yds. Ge. TDs Conv. Rich Swan, HB - 44 568 6 1 Dan Go11ld, E 19 273 0 0 Mike Kumpf, E 23 218 1 0 Rich J aszczak, FB 7 188 1 0 Larry Sykes, HB 5 20 0 0 Larry Bloom, HB 3 25 0 0 Joe Kiekup, FB 3 32 0 0 Jim Sabella, E 10 96 0 0 Steve MacKenzie, HB 1 9 0 00 Union Totals 115 1429 8 1 Opp. Totals 77 819 3 2 ~EWEST LU~CH 71 S Albany StrHt Spec::iolizing: - HOT DOGS Wl'tH P.A.MOUS SAUCE - DINNERS AND SANDWICHES - TAKE·OUT ORDERS -- Union Students Favorite Spot - (Serving Schtn~dady Since 1921) 1 0 1 2 Mon.-Th-urs. 7 A.M.·2 A.M. Fri.-Sat. 7 A.M.-4 A.M. Sun. 9 A.M.·l A.M. With BILL HOLLERAN earned-run average was fourth best among National League hurlers. More important, however, was his undisputed status as team leader of the Mets. Seaver was truly a Most Valuable Player in that he helped his team both with his superlative pitching skills and with his inspirational leadership. Seaver, however, is no more a .true MVP than Hank Aaron of the Braves. Aaron, of course, has been advertised for years as baseballs most underrated player. His skills are numerous, and have pushed him high into the career standings in nearly every batting category in baseball--yet nobody has seemed to notice until this season. Mass Media Aaron's problem has been that he has been playing in cities (Milwaukee and A tl ant a) without the enormous mass media of the New York or the West Coast. Another factor leading to Aaron's comparative obscurity is that the Braves, although they usually fmished consistently in the first division, were an unspectacular and, to an extend, mediocre baseball club until this year. This season things were different for Aaron. The MIDTOWN BARBER SHOP · All Haircuts donE: by Appoint- . ment from Tues. thru Fri. Ap- pointments not necessary Sat. 515UNION ST. 377-4010 THIS SPACE COf.ITRIBUTED BY THE PUBLISHER Would you rather not know these 7warning signals? I. Unusual bleeding or discharge. 2. A lump or thickening in the breast or elsewhere. 3. A sore that does not heal. 4· Change in bowel or bladder habits. 5· Hoarseness or cough. 6. Indigestion or difficulty in swallowing. • 7. Change in size or color of a wart or mole. If a signal persists for 2 weeks, see your doctor without delay. Because many cancers are curable it detected and treated early. It's up to you, too. American I. Cancer Society ·'- Braves were in the thick of the wild pennant scramble in the West from the start of the season, and :Aarol'l was leading them with his bat and his glove. For the first time in his career the press,, fans, and the players were heaping accolades upon him. Aaron responded with one of the best seasons Df his career, belting 44 homers (only one less than McCovey) and with Statistically,, Willie McCovey was unquestionably the Most Valuable Player in the National League this yeat. He displayed awesome power aJld was indeed the most important part of the Giants' Ilfth-straigllt second-place effort this season. The fact remains, however, that the Giants still could not break out of the \Avis syndiome 1 ' and win theii division. Tom Seaver and Hank Aaron had great seasons also, and helped their teams to division chamvionshillS. Engineers & Scientists XEROX IS COMING TO CAMPUS Tuesday, January 13, 1970 See your Placement Director today to ar· range an appointment with the Xerox representative. Discover what Xerox is doing in color xerography, 3-D imaging, laser applica· tions, and systems that mate xerography and computers. Learn, too, of the conti n- uous refinements being developed for and incorporated in our line of office cop- iers and duplicators. During the question and answer ses- sion, you'll also get a better ideaior some of the reasons behind our growth. From approximately 3,000 people in 1960 to over 30,000 cu.rreh.tly. Ask him, too, about the Xerox philoso- phy. How we've always operated.on the premise that you can maJ<e meaningful contributions to society that contribute quite gainfully to yourself. And us. This investment of your time could be the start of a rewarding future at our sub- urban Rochester, New York facilities in fundamental and applied research, devel- opmental and manufacturing engineering, or programming. XEROX An Equal Opporfunity Employer {m/f) XEROX IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK OF XEROX CORPORATION. . . ~ Founded at Un VOL. 99 .• NO. 21 SCHENECTADY, NEW YO Division I= Excuse Senio The humanities faculty voted late yesterday afternoon to recommend that final exams in all courses that would occur during a term in which a senior takes a written major field exam be waived this year. Final action on this proposal must be taken by the Faculty Council'. The division also discussed a proposed calendar change that would begin the academic year earlier in September and terminate it with graduation by the end of May. By RICHARD E. End! The motio final exams v length. A nun members exp1 that the abo exams for seni them to nei th Mesh Dual Honors Sys By PETER BICK:ERMAN Since 1966, there have fmal report wi been two distinct Honors by the end of The Honors Committee has released an interim report proposing major changes in the College's entire system of a warding honors upon graduation. . Pollution Symposium Next Week Systems of environmental control and the management of techniques to check pollution will be the focus of a conference to be held here on Dec. 4 and 5. The two day symposium will feature an interdisciplin- ary approach to environmental concerns with quality control engineers, biologists, economists and government representatives scheduled to make presentations. Discussions focusing on environmental control will include comment on current air and water pollution legislation and the long-ignored area of thermal poilu tion, which is partially the result of increased use of atomic energy to generate electrical power. Among the speakers scheduled to address the conference are Dr. A. Allen Bates, director of the office of standards policy for the Deparment of Commerce, R. C. Freeman, manager of the atomic power equipment sales division of the General Electric Co. and Stewart B. Tullock of the Apollo Systems division of G.E. at , Huntsville, Ala. The conference is being jointly sponsored by capital district chapters of the ··American Society of Mechanical Engineers, the American Society for Quality Control, the American Society for Testing and Materials and the Institute of E 1 e ctrical and Electronics Engineers in cooperation with Union's Institute of Industrial Administration. Programs. College Honors, The current cum laude, magna cum laude, discussed by and summa cum laude, Council Decer reward students for generally James Liel superior performance, and are s t u d e n t • based solely on cumulative twelve-memb index. took a dissen1 Under the present Departmental Honors program, candidates must present a major-field index of at least 3 .00. In addition, candidates must present a thesis or an alternative effort of satisfactory quality, and satisfy other requirements as determined by each department. No Thesis The committee report states that the major deficiency of the present system is that candidates for Departmental Honors in Center I usually do not present any addition work for the Honors tittle. Thesis requirements for graduation serve to satisfy Honors requirements when the thesis is of outstanding quality. In Center II, however, weighty individual research is required to produce an honors thesis. Therefore, there have been many more Departmental Honors candidates in Center I than in Center II. In order to alleviate this imbalance, he committee sugguests that the two p r e s en t systems be amalgamated into a single Honors program. The proposed Honors categories are: \cum laude in General Studies,\ cum laus}e in Major Field,\ \magna cum laude in Major Field,\ and \summa cum laude in Major Field.\ The last , three categories require that the candidates be recommended by their departments. General Report The report is an interim proposal, meant to contain general comments only. Professor David W. Reece; ;hairman of the Honors Committee, eKplained that a agree tha necessary. committee's fails to make the present proposal s requirements, students in C eKist, and VI limit the nurr Honor studer especially e· highest hono under the m awarded onlJ have done th1 is a sopl101 Studies maj01 Sophoim winter, will Middelbury game of tht the high sco head coach first winnin!

PAGE 2 Editorial: Calendar Chaos We don't know where the recently promulgated calendar revisions came from, but they can retum there with dispatch, for the whole idea is senseless. The student-faculty committee that considered changing the calendar back to semester or to 4-l-4 cited the lack of continuity-destroying vacation breaks in the middle of any term as one of the primary redeeming characteristics of the trimester system. Now someone (the sponsor ,of the change is not identified m the proposal) is threatening the assential saving grace trimesters have. According to the Faculty Council agenda that describes the proposal, its aim is to DOUGLAS SchcncctuJy 's 1 caJmg .Hen's :..,·hoe .\'tore BOSTONIAN *BATES • WALL-STREETER HUSH PUPPIES* VVALK-OVER * SEBA<i(I-MOCS MANSFIELD* SNOW & AFTER SKI BOOTS Phone F R 4-8577 319 State Street Schenectady, N.Y. $1 OFF PURCHASE OF SHOES UPON PRESENTATION OF I. D. CARD DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott Street Open Daily 10 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to 1 A.M. 'for three Generations.' Those Who Know .. Have been recommending - give s;~udents a better chance at surnmer job opportunities. But the extent of this limitation of the present system has never been regorously studied, and if the Faculty Council votes on the motion December 2, it never will be studied. There are other issues that make this calendar change questionable at best. The agenda notes do not mention the effect of this change on studen~s who would want to take courses at nearby colleges, a consortium of which has just been formed this fall. Also, students who need to attend summer school would receive their spring term grades sometime before the third week of most summer school sessions, which is the situation now. EUROPE HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER R.T. $190 SUMMIR RATES 4 FLIGHTS_ JET NYC - London NYC - Fran kf. 6/19 - 9/11 6/29- 8/17 6(26 - 8/29 $253 7/3 - 9/4 Reservations Close Dec. 15 Peter Koelle Lamont House, Rm. 308 Mornings Only MIDTOWN BARBER SHOP All Haircuts dont· by Appoint- ment from Tues. thru Fri. Ap- pointments not necessary Sat. 515 UNION ST. 3774010 KING'S ATLANTIC SERVICE STATION 717 Nott Stre-et We Cater To Union Students 10·- Sc-rv1ce D, s.co unt ''3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'• 166JAYST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELR'1 Troy - Schdy _ Road Next To Jamaica Inn Latham, New York 785-5444 Daily 10:00-6:00 Thurs. & FrL Ti19:00 Sunday 1:00-5:00 Will Turn You On To The Latest In UNISEX FASHIONS WALLACE BEERY SHIRTS BELLS-BELLS-BELLS LANDLUBBERS SUEDE VESTS - AND OTHER NICE THINGS Throw Something On And Come :-o;ee (.;::; ! Spe<.:ial Through ~ ovetnLer - CRUSHED VINYL '\WET LOOK\ jACKETS 25% OFF But we have no notion how many students are involved in either of these two situations, and unless material is presented to the Faculty Council that we have not seen, that group is going to be skating on very thin ice if they make any decision at the December meeting. The most upsetting aspect of this entire business is that the calendar revisions will be debated at exactly that Faculty Council meeting that for some reason could not consider the Student Senate's pass-fail proposal. It seems to us that the ongm of a proposal crucially, and unfairly determines the priority it is given with NOVEMBER 25, 1969 regard to being presented to the deliberative bodies of the facu!lty. There have been two moratoriums against the Vietnam Wat this term. We think it time that there be a moratoriu.rn against end-of-the-term Facu.lty Council meetings that are not directly reviewed by g-eneral faculty meetings. I: this calendar is accepted it will make the second term in a row that major chaRges in the character of the College will surface as College policy rather than as policy changes to be openly discussed. We find this manner of legislation both unwtse and unca.ndid. LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian • American food 1125 BARRE.TT ST. Schenectady Dl b-9744 Enjoy Sinling Steaks and Chops Visit Our CocHoil B~H II Junior Year in New York Three undergraduate colleges offer students from all parts of the country an opportunity to broaden their educational experience by spending their Junior Year in New York New York University is an integral part of the exciting metropolitan community of New York City-the business, cultural, artistic, and financial center of the nation. The city's extraordinary resources greatly enrich both the academic program and the experience of living at New York University with the most cosmopolitan student body in the world. This program is open to students recommended by the deans of the colleges to which they will return for their degrees. Courses may be taken in the· School of Commerce School of Education Washington Square College of Arts and Science New York University also sponsors: Junior Year in France (Paris) Junior Year in Spain (Madrid) Write for brochure to Director, Junior Year in New York NEW YORK UNIVERSITY New York, N.Y. 10003 NOVEMB In sepru Concordien: Board, Ke1 expressed comprehem Professo1 the History \I favo examinatio1 them in th1 favor then student SJ Union and four years. way for th change. 1 student a , th.wugh hi and above individual student ru more rigm student (a to face I number o not be ab! weeded ou the major: the more preparatio Jonas : should b courses a1 competeD! future Jo equivalem could al demonstr. field. The able to sl within hil freedom i Jonas particulru exam a] examine thorough that apr< a written PR< TYP I B ' typ<'' \Vilh ~nnl o r Exp< lypit d <'I 489- Mak with Keer ENCHA $275 ALSO' Your1 ring 1 your] make son a I Keep~ perfe K

969 dies two the that this it or will enly this and 744 Bor in NOVEMBER 2o, 1969 ln separate interviews with Concordiensis, Professors Jonas, Board, Kerschner, and Williscm, expressed .their v~ews on comprehensive examinations. Professor. Manfred Jonas, of the History Department, started, \I favor compreshensive examinations, I have favored them in the past and continue to favor them for the future.\ A student spends four years at Union and changes during that four years. The comps are one way for the 'Professor to see this change. The exams give the student a goal to work towards thfough his four years here, over and above the smaller goals of the individual courses. Both the student and professor have to more rigourous knowing that the student (and the professor) have to face the exam. The small number of students who would not be ahle to pass the exam are weeded out early and qualities of the majors in .the department by the more rigourous work and preparation involved. Jonas said that the emphasis should be taken _ off required courses and instead be placed Oil competency within .a field. In the future Jonas would like to see equivalency exams instituted that could allow the student to demonstrate proficiancy within a field. The student would than be able to skip course requiremnets within his field, giving him more freedom in his choice of study. Jonas did not favor any particular form of exam. The oral exam allows the professor to examine tlte student more thoroughly, he said. Questions that a professor has as he corrects a written test such as \What does PROFESSIONAL TYPING SERVICE. I B \I :.:; e I <' <' t r i <' t nww rill'r. Equipped -.vith Greek wtd \Ia Lh :-nnlwl~. Your choict• <; f L y p e ~ t y I <'. Ex p<·rient-ed in tlw~i~ typing. Pil'k up alHl d <' l i ' <' r v . C a II 489-6978 any time. Make it for keeps with Keepsake Your engagement ring will symbolize your love forever. To make 1t perfectly. per- sonally yours choose Keepsake, the nng w1th a perfect center diamond. K REGISTERED k: eepsa e\ DIAMOND RINGS Ring enlarged'lo show detail. Trndc~Mnrk Reg. PAGE 3 Profs Speak On Comps in the department meet to go over the senior's projects. In the first term the questions revolve around obtaining material. In the second term the .arrangement .of the material is stressed. Critiques are made as the students progress in their work, preparing the ,student for the exam as he goes along. The thesis has been a part of the comprehensive examination in the past, >but this student·faculty participation in the development of the thesis has now ·been fonnalized. he mean?\ or \Does he realize what he says?\ can be answered during the ,course of the oral exam. Jonas said that there are s·hortcomings to the comprehensive exams due partially to the faculty's fail,re to understand ot know the student's viewpoint. However, the students .anxiety and fear concerning the 'exam are also a result of not understanding or looking at the examiner's point of view. Professor Joseph B. Board Jr. said the comprehensive exams \should be studied in detail without passion so that we can have a policy for the future.\ He said that he was .neither in favor of, nor against comprehensive examination, In the past the exams were believed to show 'how well students integtate the material from the courses taken during the four years at Union, Board said. by D:A VID J. UGUCCIONi Bringing in outside examiners allowed the department to .compare its standards with those of other schools. The exams weJ)e useful in the writing of rec- ommendations for graduate school. Mr. Thomas H.. KerShner believes that the Economics I .epartment should have a t..vmprehensive examination. He also favored the oral exam that the Economics Department is instituting this year. Kerschner said that the oral exam is appropriate to give the student a chance to articulate, to give the student a chance \to talk economic analysis\. The student should have \a sharp andabrasive mind\ and must be able to use his knowledge to analyze economic problems. Kerschnersaid the exam allows the student to pull together all the diverse fields and theories in the field of economics and also allows the student to see that \the whole ofemonomics is much greater than the sum of its .parts\. Professor Malcolm A.. Willison, acting head of ,the Sociology -Anthropology Department, said the exam is intended to be valuable .for bo1h the student and the faculty; it increases the intellectual interchange of mutually pertainant subject matter. In the Sociology a:nd Anthropology Department the thesis is the jumping off point for the exam, said Willison. T>he .first part of the exam is 211 oral discussion of the studenf\s thesis. The professor will base his questions on tlte studenf's thesis. The student will be required to relate au tside concepts ILlld ideas to his thesis Preparation for the exam ·takes place in a seminar th~sis cmu:se two terms prior to the ex.31ll, said Willison. Each week all ()f the senior majors and the professors For the future Willison sees the possibility of more rigourous programs being developed. One such program would enable .the student to form questions and problems for the professor, than to criticize and discuss his answers. Only a small number of students would be able to do this. A separation of the majors into two groups, honors and non-honors, might result. 'The non-honors student would still be responsible for a thesis and an exam based on his thesis. The honors student would go through a more rigourous program that would require more wmk on his part and more thorough professor-student relationship. FAILURE You'll never get anywhere without it. Nothing helps a young engineer's career like being given a challenge. Which is another way of saying a chance to fail now and then. To make his own mistakes. At Western Electric we give our newly recruited engineers responsibility almost immediately. They make their own de- cisions. Learn from their own errors. Don't get us wrong. We keep our demands reasonable enough so that our recruits can makE their decisions at their own pace. But our thinking is, a man feels awfully good about even a small decision when it'5his. ' . If you're the type who'd like the chance to make your own moves, see our recruiter or write College Relations, 222 Broad- way, New York, N. Y. 10038. A lot of hard work never hurt anyone. @ Western Electric Manufacturlhg and Supply Unit of the Bell System An Equal Opportunity Employer

l PAGE4 There was a game-like expression which was a source for conversation, and it was in some vogue a short while ago. \God is Dead\ the cocktail conversationalists would say, some smiling as if they really kenw those smiling few were closer to the truth thaa they actually believed themselves. It is evident that the God who was feared, as either an institution or an entity is now only a mystique, and is now, for all practical purposes dead and eased aside by a large percentage of what can only regretfully be termed the intellectually l'!Ware It seems that God is only symbolic of a general 4 'intellectual\ movement in that aforementioned expression. God is really any unreasonable institution which refuses to mature, Phone 372-0528 PARK PIZZERIA I tal ian Grinders Our Specialty Behind Dovidsc>n Hall - One Block from the Campus 25 Park Place Schenectady, N.Y. EUROPE It's the lowest round-trip air fare ... and 1t goes right to Luxembourg m the heart of Europe. Da1ly departures. No group restrictions. Just spend 22 days or more in Europe and return by May 15. Call your travel agent NOW. ,------------------------~ I To: ICELANDIC AIRLINES j I 630FifthAve (RockefellerCenterl.• : N.Y. 10020 • PL 7-8585 'I : Please send descriptive Folder CN. : NJ.,e ______ _ Addr•\------ Crly ______ _ State Zro __ _ My Travel Agent rl __ _ L------------------------ .J.~ ICELANDIC AIRLINES - ~ .!. UF\.f.LEJ!JJR STILL LOWEST AIR FAR,ES 'TO EUROPE of any scheduled airline. Are Frats 'Dying_?· . . By ERIC S. CHERSON grow, and change -to modernize with the progress of social 'evolution, and the progress to come. God ,is dead. His churche& are slowly emptying. His once feared thunderbolts seem now to be no more bothersome than some irksome static electricity which someone might conjure up by rubbing their feet on a heavy rug. This leads to the topic which is the essence of this discussion: Fraternities as a dying institution. I personally am sorry to see fraternities dying. Fraternities have been, at times, in the past, and could be in the future, the leaders of campus life and activity. But like dinosaurs and gods, fraternities are beginning to feel the bite of the long winter and the loneliness of the lack of believers and worshippers. THE PEANUT STORE Featurinll PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeah from all ov•r the world 406 STATE ST. H fraternities are to smvive at Union, or any other institution, they must change. The fact is obvious. But even the obvious is neglected by institutions and followers of such instituti()ns who are too steeped in their own past ridden preoccupations to see what lies about them. Fraternities can no longer be the stagnating force which they have managed to be on campus as oflate. Fraternities are no longer gods, but petty demons, timidly waiting to be exorcised and removed. No one worships. No one fights to be a member of the saved or chosen few. The vibrance which is necessary to save fraternal institutions does not stem from a need for the brotherhoods to rely upon the old customs and isolations. The brotherhoods must try to extend those beautiful abstract concepts Pennel Esso· Service N ott Street Corner Of VanVranken which went in to their foundings to the outside college and local community. Fraternities, to survive, need only rely upon pledge classes to restore them to their former station and stability. To the contrary, fraternities themselves must become pledges, working for something bigger than themselves. Fraternities must not confine themselves to social activities, but must extend themselves to socially beneficial activities. Fraternities must give something more for prospective brothe~;s to identify with. The time is lost for the cries for beer and :the turtle, and there is no time NOVEI'J113EH 25,1969 for the giving d n<lthing but the nagging ste:nch of the party of the night :before. We, meaning the people who think, love. and want something better - we· need more than what :fraternities on campus now1htave to·~ffer. Fraternities lllUSt commit themselves t~ objectives independent ani larger .than themselves. If fr'~ternities do not, the'y will become only late-show rno~i~ memories and grandfath.er\s knee tales. And the son;y thing is that, we, as ·the prese11t me:mbers of fraternities. ~ill not 'look good. Gentleme11, we won't lookgood at alll ACME BARBER SHO'P 509 Union Street EXPERI:ENCED BARBERS Nearest to Union College Students 535 Nott Street r---------·-----------------------------------~---~ I at makes a beer a people-pleaser? Genesee Beer pleases a lot of the people all of the time. In fact, even on an average day, more than 2,000,000 glasses of great-tasting ,Genesee are poured and enjoyed. That's a lot of beer. But Genesee's got a lot to enjoy for people who enjoy beer a lot ... smoother body, more real beer flavor and a great taste that stays the same glass after glass ... 2,000,000 times a day. If you're one of the beer people, try the , people-pleaser ... Genesee Beer. We'll do anything to bring you better beer GBCO, Rcx;hester, M.Y: 1-----~-------------------------------------------~ VOL. 99 ByNEl Preside! cast the yesterday Faculty C ' ) seniors tal exams mu in a][ COUJ Mar by LO Presic Martin, SJ Davidson the defici be $530 way of e~ private money-l1 he said. Dr. !'I factors j deficit, ' new h Admin increased year due of R. ( Special Presiden RUS In t fraterni ended o of 505 the fre m atchec This c freshme1 fresh me on the f The 1 of pled~ to a s larger 1 and a 1 away fraterni' which l was nea than la drop in year ah a trend has memb conside The Phi Ep Pi wer only 1 to 25 l year.

