;: 1 \''A ·Causa Persa Parole Assai\ VOL 98, NO. 19 Founded at Union College 18?7 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., JANUARY 10, 1969 Cou.n · le Gives History Fieldhouse. , r ,, .l. ,.. .. oAnd The Work ·Goes On basketball is · difficulties who are i ,, ; rans of three ! ·~ 2g-12. Got:~e i Eichinger \ Feldman' 1 Wilson, who Department $100,000 ago are illness of a (' arlson , ! ings (injured '. A Concord, N.H., couple has given ·•the Union College history department $100,000 in memory of their son, who received a rare posthumous degree in 1967. The son, Ellsworth I'vl. Tracy lii, died of cancer in October, 1966, needing only one more course to complete graduation requirements. On recommendation of the history department, in which he had been a again key i major, the faculty voted to award the out for the , \' degree posthumously. Establishment of the Ellsworth M. for personal 1 . . · Tracy HI Fund, given by Dr. and Mrs. Ellsworth M. Tracy of Concord, was all is not . 1 1 of the ! announced by President Harold C. past two ; · Martin. Martin also announced the Juniors still i naming of a seminar room in the Kirkpatrick., 1 Social Sciences Building as the k is playing I Ellsworth M. Tracy III Room. A small of other I historical library will be established in starter when . the room, and it will be used as a are now t ·-meeting place for history students and faculty. ) who was not a a role of Dr. Tracy, an obstetrician, said he and his wife decided to establish the memorial to their only son because the boy's college years were \one of the happiest times of his life.\ The memorial fund will be used at the discretion of the history department for projects reflecting the basic purposes of the fund, the strengthening of undergraduate teaching of history. Research grants for students and faculty, traveling fellowships or grants for students and teachers, support .of honors seminars, and pl:lfchase of 1 i bra ry materials to enrich the independent study program in history, head the list of priorities. Dr. Joseph Finkelstein, chairman of the history department, said the Tracy room and the activities supported by the Tracy fund \will serve to remind all of us that this generous gift was prompted by a response to what we have always thought represented the normal relationship of teacher to student in a small college.\ He said the department would seek to use the fund income for work that would \reflect in the best way the spirit that marked the relationship of Ellsworth Tracy and the members of the history department who were his teachers.\ STEEL: The Wade Lupe Construction Company has completed 20 per cent of the steel framework of the new Science and Engineering Building. Though an abnormally- wet November slowed progress, nine per cent of the total money contract for the 6 million dollar project has been completed. excellent make the has a appreciated ) -Parietal Decision Due Jan. 22; :Stud en tsF ormAction Committee ELECTIONS MONDAY Due to the resignation of Dan Aronzon as secretary of the Student Council, nominations for this office will be made at the Student Council meeting at 7 p.m. Monday in Hale House Lounge. l Blvd. I J j , The Board of Trustees' committee ~ill meet to decide on the parietal proposal on or before Jan. 22, according to President Harold C. Mart in. However, next Tuesday another group concerned not only with parietals will meet at 8 p.m. in SS 016. The Committee for a Student Voice will meet with \the aim of galvanizing college-wide support for a policy of direct student participation and not Board of Trustee expediency.\ UIC Elects Brown ~For Leading Post Over Blank By Larry Friedman John Brown defeated Howard Blank for the presidency of the Union Inter- residence Council in last night's election. I Blank, a junior, was re-elected to his post of secretary-treasurer, while junior Phil Ball was tabbed for the UIC Judicial Board. Since he is now a member of the All-College Council ex officio Brown, 'a sophomore, wants to make the UIC obsolete by voting in the new student government. Examples Cited The new committee cited that while students had favored co-education, signed a petition of over 700 names condemming the maintenance system, and supported in determining policy in the community affecting our lives.\ Martin Comments Meanwhile Martin said last night he had \no idea\ how the Trustees' would vote and added, \I do just not know,\ when asked whether the trustees' would let him make the decision. Dr. Martin said that if the issue were placed before him his reaction to it at this time is \an iffy question.\ A ccor ding to constitutional procedure, nominations may be made by any member of the student body present at the meeting. H()wever, only the council itself will vote for the secretary at the meeting of the council following the one at which nominations were made. Reingold~ Killian-FormerWRUC Presidents--Now Area Newsmen the Gordon parietal proposal, all were either ignored or delayed and no action has been taken. The committee's notice was signed by Jay Blitznan, Ken Jacoby, and Ray Ahearn and called for enabling students to exercise \our innate right Two Union seniors, both former presidents of WRUC', have joined the news departments of area radio stations. Richard Reingold has joined the news staff of WPTR radio in Colonie, and Robert Killian is a newscaster for WT R Y in Troy. Both will be broadcasting during the evening. The two have had considerable broadcasting experience. Reingold was president ofWRUC from April, 1967, until January of 1968, when he North End Begins Second Year With Guitarist Lipman Fe signed the position to be succeeded by Killian, who served until his own resignation last November. Reingold has worked as a disc jockey and newscaster for radio WLOB in Portland, Maine, and for radio KMAK in Fresno, Calif. He is an American Studies major from Newton, Mass., and is a brother of Chi Psi Lodge. Killian was sent last summer to the Democratic National Convention in Chicago for radio WCBS and was employed last spring by WRGB television in Schenectady. He is a political science major from West Hartford, Conn. Get Your Sp.ring Solstice Cards Now PRICE TWENTY CENTS Arons·on Leaves Student Council Secretary Post Hy Steve Levy Danny Aruni.Uil, se«.:rdary of the Student Council, r~signed Wednesday. Aroli/.Uit, who lia~ been adivcly involvcJ in the work uf student government rc-urganit.atiun said he was not resigning fur personal or academic reasons. In his letter to the student body Aronzun stated, \I am resigning from the council so as to work on establishing a better form of student government, thus avoiding anything which might be termed a conflict of interests.\ The former council secretary wiH continue to work on student government re-organization with other students who share his view that the Student Council is inadequate for undertaking this task. He cites he cannot understand the logic behind a non-representative organization (which he labels the council} \debating such a crucial subject as a new form of student government without the benefit of a student body poll.\ Aronzon said he will proceed with ~( ~ . the revision in a constitutional manner and invited students \with a sincere interest in furthering student government at Union\ to join him. He also stated that he lacked the patience of Rusty Manker and Jim Stillman who will continue to work within the bounds of the Student Council to establish a workable student government. When interviewed, Aronzon said he had consulted Manker and Stillman prior to his resignation and both thought he could achieve his purpose without resigning. Aronzon, however, said his time was too valuable, and \the immediacy of the situation compounded by the many issues facing the student body which the·Council is not equipped to handle\ left him no alternative. Many things were still missing from the constitution, according to At·onzon. The students working at present with Aronzon are those who served on the commit tee that has worked on the re-organization and include Walt Spencer, Stu Rubin and Ed Valentine. Aronzon added he foresaw no conflict between his group and Student Council and emphasized \Establishing this student government means more to me than being secretary of the Student Council.\ en! t, the in a We sam- pr.ietor num- to ., \' Proposing \peacefu' coexistence .vith the fraternities,\ he believes that mtil a student center is built there ·1 ,,;hould be social cooperation between :he independents and fraternities. The North End coffeehouse will launch its second year of operation at 8 tonight in Bronner House, North College, with the return engagement of John Lipman, folk guitarist. appearance last November drew a ncar-overflow crowd, is a traveling troubador who has appeared on many Eastern college campuses, in Greenwich Village and the C'affe Lena. He has a wide folk music repertoire anchored in blues, ragtime and standard ballads. Bergmon Festival Starts Film Series With Production Of \Torment\ Tonight •J •J __ .... .. , . Brown also believes the parietal 1roposal sl1ould not be determined by he Trustees, but that ACC' approval vas sufficient for its adoption. ' Stressing that he will \direct the ~ouncil to a more meaningful ~valuation of its duties which concern all aspects of student life in residence 1alls,\ Brown attacked the council for lot previously \focusing sharply on Jormitory problems.\ The coffeehouse, which has steadily be en building a regular campus audience since its inception a year ago, also will sport a refurbished interior highlighted by miniature farm gas lanterns and checkered tablecloths. Despite the new decorative appurtenances, admission will remain 50 cents and refreshments- coffee, tea and assorted edibles will still be provided free of charge. Lipman, whose first campus Lipman played two one and one-half hour sets at his first North End appearance. He drew lengthy applause from the capacity audience, most of whom stayed on until midnight for the full three hours Lipman was on stage. The audience was the largest since Allen Ginsberg's poetry reading attracted over 100 persons last spring. The 1969 edition of the Film Series begins tonight in SS016 with lngmar Bergman's screen play Torment, beginning a twelve-movie Bergman festival. Prof. Frank Gado, director of the series, stressed that since Film Haps has been showing films for their e ntertain!Ticn t value, the Film Series could concentrate on showing the work of important film makers in the cultural cinematic media. Torment, written but not directed by Bergman, concerns a sadistic school teacher, a student, promiscuous girl, and their interrelationship. A 1947 release, this started Bergman on a directing career spanning 22 years. The remainder of the schedule is: Jan.. 17, Port of Call; Jan. 24, Three Strange Loves; Jan. 31, Summer Interlude; Feb. 7, Secrets of Women; Feb. 14, Monika; Feb. 21, Lesson in Love; Feb. 28, Dreams; March 7, Smiles of a Summer Night; March 14, Brink of Life; April II, 812 (directed by Fellini); May 2, The Devil's Eye; May 9, All These Women: April 23, Nigltt Tide ( ex.perimental film).

Published Tuesday aJ1d Fnda y dur- ing the· sc-hoo•l year by the Stucient Body of Umon.College, Schenectady. N.Y. Nat10nal Advert1s1ng Repre- sentatlve: Nattonal Educa11onal Advert1s1ng Se-rv1ce-, Inc .. College Publishers Representat-1ve. 360 Lt'Xlngton AvenuE\ N. Y. C. Ed1t onal Office, Old Gym. Union. Co-llege, PublicatLon Office. White· hurst Pnnllng & Bmdmg Co., Inc .. 416-4!8 Fifth Ave .. Troy. 235·4450, Entered tn the Sc·henectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscnptlon 20¢ a copy; $6 a year del1vered anywhere 1n the United States. SENIOR BOARD D. Peter Drotman .............................. Editor-in-Chief Richard Lewis .............................. Business Manager William Ouzer ................................ Managing Editor Allen Gartner ................................... News Editor Henry Fein ..................................... News Editor Paul Andrews ................................ Facsimile Editor Len Simon .................................... Sports Editor Paul Farnham ............................. Contributing Editor Alan Klein ............................... Contributing Editor Richard Kramer ..................... , ..... Photography Editor Neil Kramer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...... Production Editor .Seeking Responsibility Whenever :5tudents at lJnion feel the need to criticize, we inevitably find that one or another student activity becomes the subject of dissection. Although criticism is a common enough pursuit for many, it is indeed strange to sec the plethora of griping and the meager amount of constructive work which many students regularly choose to level at student-managed organizations. Inter-collegiate football, one of the largest and most popular student activities, is fortunate enough to have a well-staffed membership. The situation differs quite markedly, however, with the Garnet, Idol and Concordiensis, which to be sure are activities of no less importance. A creative and enthusiastic Union Book staff is working hard to produce a yearbook of far better nature than Union has been blessed within the past. The Idol staff has been sporadically printing a literary magazine from an unbelievably small portion of Union students. And Concordiensis has doubled publication frequency with the help of a small and overworked staff. All these groups need student participation, but for some reason receive very little. The irony of this situation is more than obvious. Students accuse an organization of lacking fair representation and flippantly refuse to take steps to alleviate the situation. Students have charged that the newspaper is biased and irresponsible, that news coverage is incomplete and that the paper is generally of a poor quality. Some of these attitudes may stem from ignorance and some may be grounded in fact. Students who occupy their time at Union delineating the Concordy's responsibilities to the campus and who feel that it is not their lot to attempt a change in tlw paper are guilty of more irresponsibility than their indictment carries. At least the newspaper is attempting to do a job; the chronic critics fail to realize that responsibility exists just as much on their part to make the newspaper into what there seeking. Any student activity, by its very nature, requires co-operation from the student body as a source of ideas and skills. As the situation stands, this co-operation is sadly lacking. But apathy need not continue to be part of the Union tradition. STUDENT WANTED to wash dishes in exchange for meal. Sunday Brunches 12:15 to 1 P.M. Call Steve, 346-6877 - Leave name, phone number. STUDF.NTS DON'T FORGET YOUR PORTRAITS AND BLURBS Mon., Tues., VIed. TERM PAPERS TYPED 30¢ A Page Sal Falace 1513 VanVranken Ave. 372-1385 \ZERO IN\ on our INTER-SESSION SINGLE-MINGLE Jan. 17 to Feb. 9--23 Nites! Your choice of any two consecutive days or longer, during this 24 Day Blast in the POCONOS--just 2 hrs. from N.Y.C. or Phila.!! *Cocktail Parties *Fireplace Sessions *Snowman building contests *Tobogganing *Sledding *Ice Skating *Dancing & Entertainment nitely *Indoor Pool & Sauna Bath *Snowmobile *Ski Area & Lift *Ski School *Ski Rentals *Budget to luxurious accommodations. *Rates from $16.50 Daily per pers. dbL occup. *Reduced rates to 3-4 persons in a room and groups of 20 or more persons. FERNWOOD Bushkill, Key No. Pa. 18324 *Open all Year N.Y. DIRECT WIRE: (212) 732-0374 PHILA.DIRECT WIRE: .(215) 925-0863 N.Y. Office: ( 212) 338-0202 or local: (717) 588-6661 Movie Review ROTC \Candy\ Leaves Bitter Taste Enter Richard Burton as accent, seduces Candy m front Three Union College ROTC cadets, all SenioJs h.ave been designated Distinguished Military Cadets by Lt. Col. Charles L O'Bier, professor of aerospace st11dies at the CQllege. BY PAUL ANDREWS MacPhistow, beat bard who ofher father's and fdendss' eyes. slobbers a stream of vapid Due to the ensuing middle-class mor10syHabics ending in \Lust!\ scandal, they must leave for New to the delight of worshipping York where Candy, in4he mecca teenies. The scene, which Burton of the middle-class world, is never should have done, is taken advantage of by a series of reminiscent ~f Alien Ginsberg's sweet-toothed lechers. But Names were Cadet Maj. F. William Rr·inkman and Cadets Capt. William J. Gray and James D. Talbert. \Candy\ has jumped out of its thin-covered shell and is now appearing at Proctor's Theater. Despite some funny punch lines and good satire scenes, Candy leaves a bad taste in your mouth. The movie ·starts fast but gets stuck midway in a syrupy mess. After som~ symbolic openipg scenery of which you can judge the meaning for yourself, the fllm. begins in the improbable location of a U.S. high school. visitation here last spring. Candy eventuaUy hits the road Digression with a guru of the Maharishi The movie then digresses to a Mahesh Yoga ilk, and the movie series of unconnected events. We dies a slow death. are taken to Candy's The f:tlm has a headline cast middle-class home where Ringo featuring the :likes of Burton, Starr, bumbling as a Mexican !lames Coburn, Walter Matthau, gardener with a Liverpool (Continued on page 3) This distinction plates these cadets in the top 20 per cent of all senior- yeat Air Force ROfC cadets · · in•the nation. Based on the ''\wllole man\ concept, the selection considers moral character, leadership qualities, and a standing in academic and military classes. The three cadets are A.·FROTC Financial Assistance Grant .recipients a.nd will be commissioned in June as second lieutenants. Bethl·ehem Steel Loop Course lnterv,ie\NS: JANUARY 27 What is the :Bethlehem Loop Course? It is our management development program for graduates with bachelors• or advanced degrees. The course starts early in July with four weeks of orientation at o:ur home offices i.n Bethlehem, Pa. Loopers attend lectures on every phase of the corporation's activities, and make almost daily visits to a steel plant. i '· 'I Steel Plant Loopers, who comprise a majority of the average loop class of 150 to 200 graduates, proceed to various plants where they go through a brief orientation program before 'beginning their on-the-job training assignments. Within a short time after joining the course, most loopers are ready for assignments aimed toward higher levels of management. !.•1 ' How about other loopers? Our Sales Department loopers (30 or so) remain at the home office for about a year of training. Most are then assigned to district offices where they take over established accounts. Fabricated Steel Construction loopers are trained in a drafting room, on a field erection project, in a fabricating shop, and in an engineering office. A looper's first work assignment is based on interests and aptitudes disclosed during this program. Loopers in Accounting, Shipbuilding, Mining, Research, Traffic, Purchasing, Finance and Law, General Services, and Industrial and Public Relations go through training programs tailored to their types of work. Where would YOU fit in? Check your degree or the one most similar to it. MECHANICAL ENGINEERING-Engineering or me· chanical maintenance departments of steel plants, fabri- cating works, mining operations, and shipyards. Fuel and combustion departments. Supervision of production oper- ations. Marine engineering assignments in Shipbuilding Department. Also: Sales or Research. METALLURGICAL ENGINEERING - Metallurgical departments of steel plants and manufacturing operations. Engineering and service divisions. Technical and super- visory positions in steelmaking departments and rolling mills. Also: Research or Sales. CHEMICAL ENGINEERS- Technical and supervisory positions in coke works, including production of byprod- uct chemicals. Fuel and combustion departments, includ- ing responsibility for operation and maintenance of air and water pollution control equipment. Engineering and metallurgical departments. Steelmaking operations. Also: Research or Sales. INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING-Positions in steel plants, fabricating works, shipyards, and mines. Engi- neering and maintenance departments. Supervision of steelmaking, rolling, manufacturing, and fabricating operations. Also: Sales. CIVIL ENGINEERING: Fabricated Steel Construction assignments in engineering, field erection, or works man- agement. Steel plant, mine, or shipyard assignments in engineering, construction, and maintenance. Supervision of production operations. Sales Department assignments as line salesman or sales engineer (technical service to architects and engineers). ELECTRICkL ENGINEERING-Steel plant, fabricat- ing works, mining operations, and shipyard electrical engineering, construction, and maintenance departments. Technical and supervisory positio11s in large production operations involving sophisticated electrical and elec· tronic equipment. Also: Research or Sales. MINING ENGINEERING - Our Mining Department operates coal and iron ore mining operations and lime- stone quarries, many of which are among the most mod· ern and efficient :in the industry. This l 0,000-man activity offers unlimited opportunities to mining engineers. Also: Research. NAVAL ARCillTECTSANDMARINE ENGINEERS: Graduates are urged to inquire about opportunities in. our Shipbuilding Department, including the Central Techn.i· cal Division, our design and engineering organization. Also: Traffic. OTHER TEC~ICAL DEGREES-Every year were· cruit loopers with technical degrees other than those listed above. Seniors enrolled in such curricula are encouraged to sign up for an interview. ACCOUNTANTS-Graduates in accounting or business administration (24 hours of accounting are preferred) are recruited for training for supervisory assignments in our 3,000-man Accounting Department. OTHER NON-TECHNICAL DEGREES- Graduates with degrees in liberal arts, business, and the humanities are invited to discuss opportunities in the Sales Depart- ment. Some non-technical graduates may be chosen to fill openings in steel plant operations and other departments, NOW'S THE TIME TO SIGN UP FOR AN INTERVIEW. And when you register at the place- ment office, be sure to pick up a copy of our booklet, \Careers with Bethlehem Steel and the Loop Course.\ It contains important information about the corpo:ration and your opportunities through the Loop Course. BETHLEHEM STEEL An Equal Opportunity Employer in the Plans jor PTogress Program -; HC

•)I ROTC been Military ,: 1. O'Bier, at the F. William William these cent 0f all cadets man\ censiders qualities, and A.'FROTC t .recipients in June as ') I I I .,, POTATO /)\~.~ HOT ' \I WhenJou •bl sta ~ knocking ! I ·JI on doors i !• I ' t~OUIS •J lrst. You'll find the type of company and job you've been preparing for. A company in the forefront <Jf advancing technology ... with diversified capabilities ... and a healthy mix of commercial and government business. You'll be able to choose a creative career in ' fields such. as unde1·water acoustics ; radar; il communications; space systems or computer technology. s. Come and talk to us on: • J JANUARY 16 Openings for: j. BS, MS, and PhD Candidates in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING MECHANICAL ENGINEERING INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING MATHEMATICS PHYSICS For work in: RESEARCH and DEVELOPMENT DESIGN MANUFACTURING -; VALUE ENGINEERING FIELD ENGINEERING RELIABILITY ENGINEERING ENGINEERING WRITING es Sign up fol\ interviews through your Placement Office, or write Manager of College Relations, Raytheon Company, 141 Spring Street, Lexington, Massachusetts 02173. l An Equal Opportunity Employer Read to Prof. Ketz Open Letter To A Closed Mind Dear Mr. Ketz: I was surprised to read that I had failed physical traiNing last term. I was Bot upset by the onerous social stigma which this \grade\ attaches to me but, rather, I was puzzled by the sense of logic with which yom department might extend such a gesture. ![ felt badly that I had failed physical training for two reasons: One- I had never taken it and, therefore, I could not have failed it, and Two-1 believe that you would not have issued a faHing grade as a means of punishment; therefore, I sadly realized that you, and not I, had become the victim of the Physical Education Departmen.t. At first I was startled by IUY Basketb:all , •.••. lead with 10:20 to play. Dave Shames came off the bench to score sixteen points to lead the Gamet, while Rill Boehmke contributed twelve points and fifteen rebounds. Taylor led 6-3 Rochester with 23 poilfts and 16 rebounds. The Yellowjackets, wh0 play a partial major college schedule, have claimed victories 0ver Rice and Boston University while losing close encounters with Ivy leaguers Cornell and Penn. The Garnet survived the permanent or temporary loss of five ball players to win three games on the road in December. The permanent losses were Jeff Kirkpatrick (quit the team), Rit Gallucci (shoulder separation) and Dale Long (grades), while Jim Getman and Barry Katzman missed at least one game each. Following a poorly-played opening game loss at Harpur, the Garnet lost a heartbreaking 88-80 overtime contest to the University of Hartford. Only eight players suited for the game and only five eligible players remained at the end of the contest, as five fouled out. Senior co-captain Bill Neidel scored 27 points in the Hartford game, beginning a streak of six ball games in which the 6-5 forward scored twenty or more points. At Norwich, Bill hit a phenornenall3 of 17 shots from the floor, scoring 30 points and leading the Dutchmen to a 76·67 victory. Shooting 60% in the rust half, the Garnet established a 46·22 halftime lead and then held on for the triumph over the Cadets. ifn mid-December, the Dutchmen split a pair of games in New Jersey, pasting hapless Drew 86-68 and losing to Upsala 84·73. Rich Heiden led the win over Drew with 21 points and 18 rebounds. He has since had academic difficulties and is not eligible for the winter term. The Dutchmen started strong against Upsala, hitting on eight of their rust twelve shots and building a 3 1-2 3 lead with eigl1t minutes left in the fust half. In the next thirteen minutes, however, the Garnet made just one basket and fell behind 37-35 at the half and 5 0-37 with 15: 10 left in the game. Tl1e Dutchmen closed to 60..55, but could get no closer as Upsala shot 60% in the second half. Neidel led the Garnet scoring with 2 7 points. In the Hope Holiday Festival at Holland, Michigan the Gamet were overwhelmed in ,the rust round by the hosts, 110-82. The Dutchmen rallied from a seven-point halftime deficit to win a key victory over Ohio Wesleyan in the consolation game, takin~ a 63-59 decision. FUN WORKING IN EUROPE own conclusion~ and then ·I decided to write this letter to comfort you ancl to assure you that I understand. I want you t<J know that I sfuare your embarassment. I hope that you will accept my encouragement and suggestions for improving department-flex- ibility in this truly tricky area of grading physical training students. May I suggest, since nu Candy cont. John Astin, Elsa MartineUi, Marlon Brando ll:nd so on. But rna st are sadly mjscast and seem awkward in their roles. Newcomer Ewa Aulin plays Candy, All-American sodabopper with a Swedish accent whose body lines far excel the ones she gets to speak. She plays an innocent and well- intentioned young girl throughout the movie, but every time she is propositioned Candy just melts in their hands (and in their mouths). Mjs Aulin is easy on the eyes and saccharine sweet, and she at least makes the movie pleasant viewing. It's A Failure The movie is a curious kind of failure, in view of what it should have accomplished with its cast and writers. Buck Henry, who penned \The Graduate\ script, wrote the \Candy\ screenplay. But some careless directing by Christian Marquand and some unfortunate miscasting detract from the film. \Candy\ can be viewed as a complex allegory rampant with symbolism on life in America. Candy Christian, her full name, is just that and has a white collar daddy who has an opportunistic academic credit accompanies the courses in your department, that a rating system which assumes some standard at which a Pass, rather than a Fail, occurs, bears no relationship to the purpose of sign-up sheets which is to determine attendance, and on which basis a grade is then determined. If attendance is to be the cri·terion by which a successful physical tJaining course is to be measured, then grading and rating systems have no meaningful application here. You may wish to try, on a trial basis, a system of Complete/Incomplete. I believe that this might be a more meaningful solution and, in this manner, we might also avoid the embarassment that an \F\ in physical training brings to us both. I am, alas, incompletely yours, Tiny Tim '70 (Name Withheld by Request) twin brother (the movie ends with the fusion of their faces). There is the corny Army General Smight (well-handled by Walter Matthau), the witchcraft physician Dr. Cronkite who is operating to save Mr. Middle Class, Candy's father. There are the stupid cops, the faker fakir, a troupe of hippies and other paraphenalia from our everyday lives. But the movie lacks the thematic, sophisticated satire of \'Ihe Graduate.\ It's too bad, because some better casting,-say Peter Sellers as the guru, Woody Allen as the physician and Zero Mostel as the beat poet--could have salvaged the film. 1 ......................................... ~ •1 Portrait ~i~~~~ J~ilable at : 1 • Hale House Lounge Mon, Tue, Wed 1 9-12, 1-430 1 Free, no obligation • • Portraits by • 1 Victor 0 'Neill studios I GUARANTEED .JOBS ABROAD! Get paid, travel, meet people, SUMMER and YEAR ROUND. 20 countries, 9 paying job cate· gories offered. For FREE cultural program literature including details and applications, write: \ISTC admissions,· 866 United Nations Plaza, New York, N.Y. A Non-Profit Student Mem· bership Organization. Sponsored by The Union Book 69 • . ........... . John Abrahams is a plastic man. Byron Barclay harbors a nuclear urge. What's with Grotz? He digs accounting. Ruth Carpenter opts for the moon . Jim Witsotslci is a latent chemist. Tom· Counihan will do anything vinyl. Van D,yke sells, sells, sells. George Mancuso is an AEC drop-in. Gerald Fitzgerald takes castor oil. .. .................. ... T~~v tiD~U rtnm1w® s;rmm@~U'D~[ffi~ID M~rnff:orrrnmtm!ID!Jl in t~:@mrnmrmm1. ~mD.(Q)fnl@l~ Leatrrla ·· We're the uncommon company that makes 200 different product lines. like pigments, chemicals, paints, metal products, plastic products, oil-country products. We're the uncommon company with 125 plants here-and in 17 other countries. · We're the uncommon company with annual sales of threE-quarters of a billion dollars-and we w:ant to make it a billion. If you're the kind of uncommon person who can help us (in any field), we'll be seeing you. Soon. National Lead Nl An equal opportunity employer. See us: Wednesday, January 15th • • ,,, ·il ,; ;.·

Concordy Sports Cagers ·face Alfred, Hobart . have just one returning veteran, win. If the hoopsters are sho~tmg by GARY PREVOST \Our chief ambition this season is to win the IC AC' championship.\ So said hoop ~oach Chris St:hmid earlier this week. Tonight and tomorrow night in the Fieldhouse, the Dutchmen face Alfred and Hobart on the ft.rst leg of the five-game ICAC schedule. On February 14 and 15, the hoopsters travel north to meet St. Lawrence and Clarkson and then face RPI in the Fieldhouse on Febnta.ry 22. The ambition would seem to be within the grasp of Garnet cagers, who arc off to a slow 3-5 start. Alfred, the defending ICAC champions, come to Union with a 3-3 record overall and 2-0 in the lCAC. Conference victories have come over Hobart (75-7 1) and St. Lawrence ( 75-63). The Saxons also downed Jersey City State in the consolation game of the Genesee tournament. Alfred's losses have been to Rochester (76-55), Ithaca (92-51), and Genesee [7 3-71). The Saxons ANNOUNCEMENTS The Independent Intramural Basketball League is forming. The league will play on Thursday nights. Independents interested should contact the following representatives: Michael Levin-Epstein-second and third floor Fo:-.; Grady Aronstamm-f'ust floor North and South Fox; Scott Bowens--second and third floor North Fox; Stu Rubin f'mt floor North and South Davidson; Mike Fishman- second and third floor South Davidson; Ray Pike- second and third floor North Davidson. Independents interested in playing handball should sign up with either Keith Walter, 311 Davidson, or Bob MacKenzie, 350 f<ox, no later than Tuesday, January 14. Intramural schedules for bowling and basketball are available in Coach Lawrence's office. Weekly dates in bowling are not binding and matches can be bowled any day of the week. junior guard Pete Ryan. The other well, they can sta~ with any t~am on four starters are sophomores: 6-2 the schedule, but If they expeHence a forward Ken Fabrikant, 6-4 forward \cold\ night like the Rochester Phil Maher 6-4 center Gary game, the hoopsters will have Hammond, ;nd 6-0 guard James difficulty. The rebounding and Dunn. defense are simply not strong enough Hobart faces Union in only its to fall back on this year. The f'!fth game of the season. Before addition of Jim Getman to the Christmas, the Statesmen brubbed starting lineup in place o.f the Hamilton 88-70 and lost to Alfred ineligible Rich Heiden should give the before taking a month vacation. A Garnet milre shooting power. win over Brockport by 70\61 The Garnet hoopsters opened the Wednesday night brought their 1969 portion of their schedule record to 2-1. They face RPI in Troy Wednesday night in the fieldhouse tonight. 6-5 junior center Carmen and saw their record drop to 3-5, Genovese last year's ICAC absorbing an 80-48 trouncing at the Sophomo~e- of-the-Year, is the hands of a powerful University of Statesmen's key man. Last year the Rochester quintet. In the month of Garnet held him in check and won December, the Union hoopsters 48-45. Backing up Genovese are overcame an unbelievable ~eries of guards 6-2 John Hershey and 6-1 personnel problems to w:n three Kevin Harrigan, while 6-4 senior games, highlighted by . a thud-p~ace Terry Hatmaker and 6-2 sophomore finish in the Hope Holiday Festival. Fred Bond may start at forward. If Taylor Stars the Statesmen guards can score from Wednesday's encounter with the the outside to take pressure off Yellowjackets was a contest for only Genovese, the Garnet hopes would be the first eight minutes. Roches~er, dimmed. with 6-7 center Steve Taylo: sconng Four New Cagers 15 points and controlling _the The Dutchmen have attempted to defensive boards, moved from a tight solve their depth problems with the 13-11 advantage with. 13: 10 addition of four new ballplayers. remaining to a 39-32 halftJme lead. Most notable of the additions is 6-1 The Yellowjackets played a tight sophomore Barry Fitzgerald, who man-to-man defense, forcing _the could help the Dutchmen at both Garnet to shoot from t~e ou~si?e, guard at forward. Fitzgerald was the where they were ineffective, h1ttmg second leading scorer for last year's only 29cf for the night. fresh team. Abo joining the varsity The Dutchmen rallied briefly at are juniors Pete Palen, Doug Vergith, the start of the second half, cutting and Chuck Spaulding. the margin to 40-26 after two The Garnet arc utilizing a semi-fast minutes of play. However, the Garnet break offense, in contrast to last offense totally disintegrated . as year's defense-minded squad. Four Rochester scored twenty consecutive good defensive ballplayers from last points for an insurmountable 60-26 year's team are gone, so. the (Continued on page 3) Dutchmen must rely on shootmg to Faculty and Students The Union Book cordially invites ten faculty and fifteen students to appear in the yearbook in a special way. Those chosen will be given a full page portrait and a full page for copy of any nature. Any of those who are interested please leave applications at the student activities office. Applications should include name, phone number, and nature of material to be submitted. GEN. BREW, CO,, ROCH., N .. 'r', ~~ . . ; ... a little more exciting! Frosh Hoopsters Dump ·Rochesteri Tedisco Stars by HANK LEVINE The Gamet freshmen, led by Jim Ted·isco, defeated the freshmen from Rochester Wednesday night by a score of 80-71. The game was close right down to the wire, with Uni.on finally deciding the outcome WI·th less than a minute to play. Union jumped out to an early 14-8 lead as both dubs exhibited sloppy play. Jim Tedisco got three qui~k fouls. This put the Garnet offense m a hole, but Rich Macleod filled the gap with a few clutch baskets. With four minutes remaining in the half, both clubs began to run. Rochester cut the lead on a couple of fast breaks; the score at half time read 35-32 with Union in the lead. The second half started with Union very cold. Rochester cut the lead to one with ten and a half minutes to go. Union got into foul trouble, but a poor Rochester f:ee throw percentage and a few qt:~~ck buckets gave Union a seven point lead at 65-58 with five and a half minutes to play. The Garnet freshmen record now stands at two wins and one loss. Jim Tedisco is the scoring leader, averaging 27.7 points per game. Mat:men Trounce Hap,less Hartford by LEN SIMON Coach Ron Coleman's wrestlers opened their season Wednesday with a whopping 38-5 victory over the University of Hartford, pushing their win streak to eleven matches, and giving them. their twentieth victory in their last twenty-one contests. Ron Ruhl opened proceedings by pinning his opponent in the 123-pound class. Hill Munno was ;the regu la.r last season in that spot, while Ruhl wrestled the optional 115 pound cLass when it was contested. Botl1 won ICAC titles. Munno, however, was. struck down with pneumonia during vacation and was not ready ;for Wednesday's clash. He should be set for Monday's encounter with New :Paltz:, and will wrestle if he can defeat Ruhl for the spot. . . Frank D'An tuono pushed the score to 10-0 by followmg sUit and pinning his foe in the 130-pound class. 'lihe visiting Hawks th:n scored their only points on a pin by captain llick Argus scored agamst John Wheeler, a Garnet transfer from Corning. 1\rgus has a phenomenal career record and had defeated Ron Ianotti last season by a score of 13-,J for the only Hartford points in that match. Wheele,, however, had wrestled him t(i) nearly a standstill when he was injured while being reversed, and was pinned laying helplessly on the mat in pain. The injury turned out to_ be a mild one, and Wheeler will most likely miss only one match. He will be replaced by Larry Stevens. Tom Tripp took a narrow decision in d1e 145 pound class, but appeared to master his opponent without too much trouble. J cff Knetzer was th.en awarded a forfeit in the 152 pound class. !Dick Rosener followed up· With the quickest pin of the match, dropping :his 160 pound foe in 1:10. Naysim Simon continued ·the rout with an easy pin over a helpless Hartford opponent. Naysim was undefeate-d last season and recently plac,ed third in the C.W. Post tournament. grappling with some of the outstandmg competitors in the Northeast. Dell Cral1dall the~ pickc_d up a forfeit victory, and Pete Kenyon closed out the contest With a pm over a game, quick, but far outweighed Hartford opponent. Reading Getting You Down? Keep up with the studies this year by learning to rea·d faster and better. The way you're reading right now- word by word - is the way people read a hundred years ago. But who needs to read as they did in horse-and-buggy days when a revolutionary new technique makes it possible to get through a book at a dramatically faster rate and with top comprehension. This is the technique discovered by Evelyn Wood, based on her extensive research into reading patterns of natural speed readers. She's called it Take a FREE ~·· ~·lesson Come and see what the Wood method is all about. Learn to read faster on the spot. See dramatic film showing graduates in action; Reading Dynamics. And her course works. If aftertal<ing it you haven't at least tripled your reading speed (with equal, or better comprehension based on the beginning and ending tests), yoLir entire tuition will be refunded. If reading is one of your hang-ups, how ~an you afford not to look into tile Evelyn Wood course? It could malc:e the E:lig difference for you this year. I'IH ERE: Holiday Inn \111:1 EN: Wed. Jan. 13th TIME: 8:00 P.M. Special reduced rate for Union 'Students and Faculty For Information Contact Cam~us Rep. Bob Michaelson 346-9895 Adm. Offices: 1654 Central Avenue A.lbany, New York Evelyn Wood READING DYNAMICS INSTITUTE Adm. Offices: 45 South Main Street, West Hartford, Conn. 0~107 • (203) 232-4485 •• \'voL. 98, Union' 1 prese Hugh A !\larianne ~n Memor Prof. · er. The \Sonata \'Sonata i \Sonati \Sonata i A nat ,was a pu Kathleen at the Rc Toronto. A sol New Yor1 with th rectal. Broadcas1 Prof. faculty i academic organist ~ A gra1 studied < Dupre' a1 ,under G appearan Orchestn Orchestn 'sts, r< should t loungs. The match tl fraterniti to bids a1 There January p.m .. Ru to a fr: cannot b< Final be subrn

esday with a ing their win in their nent in the spot, while Botl1 pneumonia should be set can defeat ing suit and then scored against John career 13-.1 for the him t0 and was out to be a He will be but appeared zer was then wed up with a helpless placed ou !standing up a forfeit over a game, .... . ·' -. ng tto It n 346•9895 Avenue E l ·\A Causa Persa Parole Assai\ Founded at Union College 1877 SCHENECrADY, N.Y., JANUARY 14,1969 SHOOT SPIRO FIRST! PRICE T.WENTY CENTS ----- -- -------- Faculty Committee To Consider Upperclass Pass-Fail Resolution By HENRY FEIN The Faculty Council will act Jan. 21 upon a proposal to allow all upperclass students an unlimited \pass-fail\ option. In the draft resolution prepared by a faculty committee headed by Dean of the Center for Science and Engineering James D. Palmer, sophomores and third-term freshmen would also be able to ~pt for \pass-fail\ providing they had maintained a 2.0 cumulative average. The drafters of the proposal have included the following statement: \Under this system, the decision to participate rests squarely with the student. He must evaluate the many forces in operatipn to influence his choice, including, but not limited to, graduate schco 1 enterance ..• honors ... employer inte11pretations of pass-fail records, ... and eligibility for scholarships, fellowships, and loans. \The system is one intended to respond to the drive of students to be out from the over-riding pressures of 'making grades' and to encourage true scholarship and a deepening curiosity in a lasting sense.\ Under the proposed methods, the student would inform the Registrar before the end of the first week of classes of any course he wanted to take for \pass-fail.\ Nevertheless, all students will be graded on the usual four- points scale; only the Registrar will know that the course has been elected as a \pass-fail.\ All transcripts of the course will indicate only pass or fail if this is requested. However, permanent records, perhaps on computer magnetic tape, will be retained of the letter grades received by all students, regardless of what will appear on transcripts. These will be used, in Dean Palmer's words, \To later compile an academic profile of the student if this is ever needed.\ To be eligible to participate in the program, juniors and seniors simply complete two full consecutive terms. Lower classmen must satisfy the above and also must have attained at least a 2_0 cumulative average. There are no other restrictions regarding either prerequisites or number of possible \pass-fail\ courses. on, Pashler Student Body Representatives resent Concert To Attend Trustees' Conc:lave The new proposal is an outgrowth of last spring's controversy over the planned 12-point grading system. Early this fall, the Palmer committee began discussions among the faculty and informally with students on the matter of \pass-fail\ courses. Palmer stated, \We will be following a definite nation- wide trend ... .As evidenced last spring, th.e students appear to be generally in favor of the proposal.... We strongly encourage students to voice their opinions on the matter.~' Union's Department of the Arts 1 present a recital by harpsichordist Hugh Aile n Wilson and violinist Marianne Pashler at 8:30 p.m. Friday ~n Memorial Chapel. Pi·of. Wilson is a member of 1he Union music faculty. Miss Pashler is a Capital District musician and music er. The program will consist of \Sonata in G major,\ Pepus.ch; \Sonata inC major (K. 296),\ Mozart; •·sonatina,\ Walter Piston; and \Sonata in E major,\ Bach. A native of Canada, Miss Pashler .was a pupil of the eminent virtuoso, Kathleen Parlow. Miss Pashler studied at the Royal Conservatory of Music in Toronto. A soloist with the Northeastern New Y ark Philbarmonia, first violinist with the Traldy String Quartet, ·stress of the Schenectady Orchestra, Miss Pashler is a rec talist for the Canadian Broadcasting Company. Prof. Wilson joined the Union faculty in 1962. In addition to his academic duties, he serves as college organist and director of the Glee Club. A graduate of Yale University, he studied organ in Paris under Marcel Dupre' and harpsichord in Amsterdam . ,under Gustav Leonhardt. His many appearances,·have included the Festival Orchestra and the Princeton Chamber Orchestra. Fraternities Get ids Thursday The first round of fraternity bids or the Class of 1972 will be conducted Thursday. By 1:30 .p_m ., January 16, fraternities and freshmen submit their bid and preference · sts, respectively. Freshmen lists should be left in the west college loungs. The I.F .C. Judicial Board will match the two lists and inform the fraternities of those freshmen matched . to bids and all unbid freshmen. There will be a dorm rush on January 19 and 20, from 7:00 to ~:00 p.m .. Rushees who have been matched to a fraternity in the first round cannot be further rushed. Final bid and preference lists must be submitted to the I.F.C. by 1 :30 p.m. on Tuesday, January 21. Rushees will pledge at their respective fraternities on the evening of January 23. By ALAN MELL Cc ncordiensis learned early this morning that Rusty Manker, Neal Gordon and Jim Stillman will serve as student body representatives to the decisive Trustee's Meeting in New York City one week from tomorrow. As of the Student Council meeting yesterday hopes were dim as efforts to ascertain the whereabouts of the meeting had failed. Dean Edward Malloy and Mr. Richard Lucas would disclose only that the conclave of the colleges highest tribunal would take place somewhere in New York City. After the adjournment of the councils evening session Manker telephoned Board president Meade Brunet and outlining the situation requested that special student body representation be authorized for the conclusive meeting. Brunet assented and the Student Body President, Vice-President and the Chairman of the ACC parietals committee will be on hand to pruticipate in the Boards deliberations. The Council had discussed alternative methods of making it clear to the Trustees that the student body would take rejection of the proposal as a grave decision, after Rusty Manker, Student Council President, indica ted that the prospects for approval \didn't look good.\ The Council decided to take n<J action, unless the Trustees vetoed parietal changes. In that case, the Council would meet immediated to determine the practicality of protest action. Manker stated that he knew of a number of moves the student body could make, but he warned that the protests he had in mind would have to have large student support. If only one or two hundred students tried to protest, he observed, they could be \thrown out of school.\ Neal Gordon indicated the possibility that the Trustees would leave the decision on parietals in President Martin's hands. Martin has already indicated, according to Gordon, that he knows what he will decide, if the decision is his. Although the President has not divulged that decision, Gordon stated, he seems opposed to letting students make their own parietal hours, having expressed his personal discomfort at · having to live with the thought that students on campus were sleeping in pairs. Nominations for Secretary of the Council were called for last night, in the wake of Danny Aronzon's resignation, last week. The only name placed in nomination was Ed Rundell, who is a Council member. Rundell was not present at last night's meeting, so it is not known if he will accept the post. Manker also informed the Council that the Faculty Council, in a meeting next Tuesday, will consider a proposal on the institution of a pass-fail system. The proposal, which Manker learned of from the President's office, would allow all students, except freshmen, to take all their courses on a pass-fail basis, after they had completed two • consecutive terms at Union. Freshmen would be able to take pass-fail courses after completing two terms only if they have at least a 2.0 cumulative index. Another proposal on pass-fail which the Faculty may be asked to consider would allow students to take two pass-fail courses a year. The other courses would be graded on the twelve point system, which employs pluses and minuses. The twelve point system. for all courses. was approved by the Faculty Council last year, but it has not been put into use because the Faculty agreed to reconsider their decision to change the grading system after widespread student protest against the use of pluses and minuses. A position on the proposed pass-fail system will be taken by the Student Council next Monday, after Council members have had the opportunity to find out how other students feel about it. Manker stated that he believed that the F acuity, after last year's protests, would pay close attention to student opinions on the fotm that grades should take. A special meeting of the Council was called for this Thursday night, when the new constitution will be considered· once again. The Council established procedures, last night, for Thursday's discussion, in order to prevent an outbreak of the chaos that has been prevalent in the previous debates on tlte constitution. Also on the agenda for consideration this terms is a proposal to keep tl\e entire library op.;n all night during exam week, as well as a proposal to change registration proceduxes, to allow students to pick their instructor and course times when they select the courses they will take. Before the January 21 vote, each of the two centers' faculties will meet to discuss this and other matters. At that time, and also on the floor of the Faculty Council, amrnendments may be proposed. Regardless, Palmer is confident that, \We will come up with some sort of pass-fail system.\ Although no definite date has been set for implementation of the system, next September seems to be likely. CONCORDY CONTEST The I FC Rushing Rules have been altered in some way every year since their inception in 1964. Concordy offers a blueberry muffin to the student or faculty member who can guess where the changes will occur next year. Red China Expert Lucian Pye To Address IRC Thursday By NEIL KRAMER Prof. Lucian W. Pye, one of America's foremost authorities on Communist China, will speak at 8 p.m. Thursday in the auditorium of the Social Sciences building. His topic will be •'Reel China and Her Enemies.\ His speech is sponsored by the Union -Skidmore International Relations Club and the Lester Fund. F rid ay, Prof. Pye will be the keynote speaker at Skidmore College's tenth a.nnual International Relations Conference, \Southeast Asia: More Vietnams?\ All Union College students and faculty are invited to attend the sessions on January 17-18. In addition to Prof. Pye, speakers and panelists at the Skidmore Conference will include Dr. Donald Zagoria~ a director of the Institute on Modern Asia: John McAlister, profess<>r at the Woodrow Wilson School at Princeton University; Lee Williams from Brown University; Russell Johnson, peace secretary for the American Friends Service Committee: Dr. Fred Greene from Williams College: and a speaker from the United Nations speaker bureau. Prof. Pye, who will address the Union College classes of Robert Sharlet and !)onald Thurston Friday morning, vvas born and raised in China, where his parents were American missionaries. He left shortly before Parietals Neal Cordon, Chairman of the ACT Committee on Parietal Hours, requests that all fraternity presidents and R.A.'s poll their living units in regard to the establishment of their units' parietal hours and submit the hours decided upon to the Dean of Students office by 4:00, Friday. The results of the polls wUJ be submitted to the Trustees at their January 22nd meeting and will aid in their discussion at that time. World War II to come to the United States for his education. Pye is a graduate of Carleton College. As an officer in the U.S. Marine Corpos, Pye returned to China briefly in 1945 and 1946. He has traveled extensively in the Far East. The major events in the Skidmore [ n tern ational Relations Conference include, on Friday, the keynote address by Prof. Pye, at 8:30p.m. On Saturday, at 10:30 a.m., there will be a panel discussion on ''Communism or Nationalism: Interdependence or ConfrontationT From 1:15 to 2:15 p.m., two films will be slwwn, one on the French Indo-China War and the other on Ho Chi Minh. At 2:30 p.m. there will be a panel discussion on \The American Stake in Southeast Asia: Conunitment or Withdrawal?\ Following a reception at 4:30 , the speaker from the United Nations will deliver a keynote address at 8:00p.m.

~~~¢>'•, :::3 ...• , ...... ~ -1 Symposium Ponders Co-Education <nonrnr 17 {·cr ·\i~ ~s iltrn.at !l 0 ...... ,.~, ~ o· ..... c, ,,/lL\fJ_ ~.\lt t'D\\ Publlsht\d Tut>sdav Hnd I-~r1d .. q· dur~ Edit onal Office. Old Gym. Union 10(!: thf\ S('houl ~·t'ar by· tht> Student c~lllf\gP. PubliC' att on Offlce. Wh!te- Bodv of Un10nCollege, Schene,tarly. hurst Prmtmg & Binrlm~ Co .. Inc .. N,Y, Nut10nal Adverttsmg Repre· 416-418 r'tfth A,·e., Tn•v. 235-4450. (Editor's Note: The following article is reprinted from the Jan. 8 issue of ''The Schenectady Gazette.\) By BRUCE HUSTEN sentat1ve: Nat1onul Edu(\utJonal AdvPrt1s10g St>n.l<.·t•, Inc •. Collt\g<' Puhl ishers RE•prPsPnt ••t t\ E> .~bO Lexington AvenuP, N. Y, C ... Ent.-red tn the- Sch.-necttldy Post ·· Offtce as Secund CIa ss Mall Matter. Subscriptl<m 20¢ 1-i C\opv; $6 a year 1 delivereod dnvwh!:>l:\'e tn the United \In This Issue: Alumni Survey on Coeducation,\ reads a box on the back cover of the winter issue of \Symposium Union's quarterly alumni magazine. Stat (>S. SENIOR BOARD D. Peter Drotman ........ 346-68 77 ........... Editor-in-Chief Richard Lewis ........... 346-1932· ....... &u~iness Manager William Ouzer ........... 393-5601 ......... Milnaging Ediror Allen Gartner ............ 346-8067 ............. News Editor Henry Fein .............. 346-8067 ......... - ... News Editor Paul Andrews ............ 393-73 78 ......... Facsimile Editor Len Simon ............. -372-7227 ............ Sports Editor Alan Klein ............................. Contributing Editor Paul Farnham .......................... Contributing Editor Richard Kramer ........................ Photography Editor Neil S. Kramer ............................ Prod.uction Editor To tPard Consislef1CY And with publication of not just the survey, but also a : number of other articles devoted to coeducation (including a sizable portion of the 1967-1968 report from college president Harold C. Martin), the controversy of possible , coeducation for the college has ' arisen once again. The issues, however, are not new. Martin's report was written even be fore the student '· questionnaire on coedllcation had been tabulated, and since then the college's Board of Trustees deferred decision on the proposal until its June meeting. Concordimsis hails th<' open-minded and far-reachin~: decision of the Trustees to allow three student leaders to. sit in on that portion of their Jan. 22 meeting which will; be devoted to tlw consideration of the unanimously ratified ACC parietal hour proposal. In the interim a study is being made under the auspices-and finances- of Martin's office. His By this action the Trustees demonstrate a willingness to- talk openly with students about issues they consider to be of high import. Tiley further manifest the faith we have held that they arc men who have at heart tire best interests of the College community. We believe thaJ if the Board listens carefully and opcn-mindedly to the student body representatives, it can do nothing short of enthusiasticly supporting a resolution that has already been ratified by too many legislative bodies. study, unlike the faculty report, is expected to deal more with financial practicality than personal opinion. Several pages of the latest \Symposium\ are devoted to reprinting the Niemeyer Report from the faculty committee. Members of the faculty voted unanimously in favor of the issue last summer. How ever, we perceive a very grave inconsistency The f i n a 1 p ages of between the latest action of the Trustees and the souncl \Symposium\ feature an article defeat of two motions at the last General Faculty meeting. entitled \Some Observations on the Coeducational Question\ Where the Trustees have shown progress in broadening written by an unnamed author their communicative scope, the General Faculty has and dealing largely with the defeated motions which would open their meetings 1) t() question in light of its being \a aU students and 2) to screened representatives of the familiar phenomenon ofmodern College press and radio. America, the trend, otherwise known as the bandwagon.\ The maJor argument advanced by those who voted And indeed it is that. Last against the motions was that the presenee of outsiders · Sunday's New York Times would inhibit the free exchange of ideas among Faculty magazine section announced members. Implicit in this contention is the desire of some that even the Choate School in Faculty members to shield the opinions and positions that Wallingford, Conn. (of which the late President John F. Kennedy formulate policy from public scrutiny. was a graduate), one of the Although we clearly recognize the need for closed country's most traditional and sessions under a wide spectrum of circumstances, we deem conseiVative prep schools, is it the responsibility of the General Faculty to develop merging with a nearby girls' prep P rocedures that will encourage the active participation of school to form a coeducational institution. the entire academic community within the The \Symposium\ article decision-making process, and to repress those supports its own contention. administrative features of that process which tend to seal Hobart College, it points out, off communication among the various organs of the founded in 1822, added William College. Smith College in 1908. •'Then in rapid succession the 1968-69 Co-ed Box Score phalanx began to dissolve, Hamilton College opened a Co ncordiensis has made its stand on co-education clear; and so have many of the colleges with which we are generally or, by some, wishfully ass()ci.ated. For the edification of our readers we present our 1969 Co-ed Box Score. KEY: I - Colleges which have definitely adopted co-education this year I I - Colleges which have instituted exchange programs with other single sex colLeges Ill ·Others I Bennington II a milton Princeton Sarah Lawrence Trinity Vassar Yale Faculty and Students II Amherst Bowdoin Colgate Conn. College Dartmouth Mt. Holyoke Skidmore Smith Trinity Vassar Wesleyan Williams III Union The Union Book cordially invites ten facul\ty and fifteen students to appear in the yearbook in a speci.al way. Those chosen will be given a full page portrait and a full page for copy of any nature. Any of those who are interested please leave .applications at the student activities office. Application's should include name, phone number, and nature of material to be submitted. ~----------------------------------------------' coordinate school for women, Kirkland College, this fall. Kenyon and the University of the South (Sewanee) will be coed next fall. Wesleyan and Franklin & Marshall will soon join them. Princeton seems about to follow; so does Colgate. Yale has plunged. Williams, Bowdoin, Lafayette and Trinity are a 11 1 ooking, and several probably will leap. \Proponents of coeducation argue that if Union does not adopt coeducation it will be left behind again, as it was a century ago when other prominent co 11 e g e s -- H a r v a r d , Yale, Princeton, Columbia--opted for the university while Union remained small.\ Against the coed argument is the fact that such colleges as Williams, Hamilton, Eowdoin, STUDF.NTS DON'T FORGET YOUR PORTRAFTS AND BLURBS Mon., Tues., VIed. Sewanee and Kenyon are seriously isolated not just from females, but from any sizable community as welL Union, the article points out, has the advantage of the nearness ofgirls from Skidmore and Russell.Sage and that ultimately the girls outnumber the boys by a margin of more than twoto one. Now, in any case, the alumni of the college can voice their opinions on the issue, students and faculty having already done s~ ! No matter \What they decide, 'i ' however, the decision is 1 ultimately up ,to the Board of : . Trustees. And June is aJJ too far 1 · away for 1,600Union men. Freshmen Elect Thromoulos Chief In elections held last night after numerous postponements, John C. Throumoulos has been e l e c t e d President of the freshman class. Henry Casten is the Vice-Pfesident. Rich Gross was chosen Treasurer, and Robert Coombs was named Secretary. Three hundred-seven freshmen voted for the first group of officers for the Class of 1972. The new officers will be responsible for publicity and final arrangements for Winter Weekend. Throumoulos received 143 votes, defeating Mark Richards (82 votes) and write-in candidate Rich Ohler, who garnered 73 Open letter to the Coll~ge Community: Next Wednesday, January 22nd, in New York City, the Union College Trustees will vote on the ACC Proposal on Parietal Hours. While we are unhappy that a decision must wait until that time, we have proposed no action on the part of the student body demonstrating further suppo1t before the meeting.. The Trustees must certainly be aware of the almost overwhelming support on the part of the student body regarding the proposal, and any action before the 22nd would be redundant and perhaps damaging. While we have no indication from the Trustees on how the vote will go, we feel confident that they will respect the wishes of the student body and the ACC and pass the proposal as it now stands. However, if the Trustees show their disregard of student and faculty government by defeating the proposal or passing a considerably weakened version of it, the Student Council will hold a meeting on Thursday, January 23rd, at 7:00P.M. in Hale House Lounge to discuss measures to force the Trustees to reconsider. The student body is welcome at that meeting and all serious proposals for action will be considered. The STUDENT COUNCIL NSF To Hold Institute On Campus This Summer For the 11th consecutive year, Union will be the site of a National Science Foundation summer institute in science and mathematics for secondary school teachers. This year's institute will be funded by a $139,752 grant from NSF. Dr. Edwin F. Gillette, professor of mathematics, is program director. Abour 100 teachers from across the country will attend the institute. Last year, teachers from 23 states, Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia participated. The institute is designed, Prof. Gillette said, to give teachers an opportunity for in te I lee tua 1 refreshment. Colleges and universities which administer such programs are encouraged to develop programs in subject-matter education of teachers. A weekly seminar series will be required of all participants. The series will include lecturers from the Capital District industrial community and the college staff, as well as other guests. Members of the institute faculty are Dr. Francis L. Lambert, associate professor of physiology and biophysics at Union; Mrs. Lois L. Hooverman, Kenwood Academy, Albany; and Dr. George H. Reed, professor and chairman of the Department of Chemistry, Union College. Robert W. Schaerer, associate professor of chemistry, Union; William E. McClennan, Jr., chairman of the science department, Linton High School, Schenectady; and Donald B. Stone,·Iecturer, Russell Sage. Also, Dr. William C. Stone, professor of mathematics, Union: Dr. Kenneth L. Schick, associate prpfessor of physics, Union; and Dr. Charles D. Swartz, professor of physics, Union. -·------------------------------------------~-- Down to Louis', let us go, Let the lager freely flow. A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. NOW IN OUR lath YEAR For reservations phone FR 4-8917 ,_.EWEST LU~CH 71 S Albany Street Specializing: KOT DOGS WITH FAMOUS SAUCE DINNERS AND SANDWICHES T AKE·OUT ORDERS - Union Students Favorite Spot - (Serving Schenectady Since 1921) Mon.-Thurs. 7 A.M.-2 A.M. Fri.·Sat. 7 A.M.-4 A.M. Sun. 9 A.M.· I A.M. votes. For Vice-President, Casten '· defeated Wayne Chariff by 200 votes to 73 votes,. Gross' victory in the T reasmer race was · considerably s1naller; he won''[ • 161 votes, while Bob Erlandson ' got 106 votes. Cmmbs defeated · Joseph Schwartz l 44-103 fOJ,: . Secretary. Throumoulos .Ji.as pledged to . work for cars. fm third-term freshmen, abolition of parietals;. and a co-ed Union~ He ••wants to pre·sent questions to the administration and demand i results. If they are not l forthcoming. we will take steps i to attain these res\llts.\ • Sly and the Family Stone. i. have .already 'been signed for· I Winter Weekend -entertainment. l The freshmen officers will work 1 to insure effective organization, I and publicity for ,the event. l I Letter r ~ Zoo Story To the Editor: I would lile to extend my · sympathy to those Union fans at'• the Hobart game, wl10, ·in the name of decency and fair play, , felt it their duty to hurl a -variety 1 of obscenities, vulgarities, and' incoherent grunts at the referees and Hob art ]Jlayers. These actions, unfortunately, are-; typical of a game at the field house. The . Union College rah rah. boys should not be emba1rassed because they left tl1eir sense of propriety at the nearest pig pen. After all, many people pay for the privilege of witnessing such behavior. At tile Broll}{ Zoo alone, 300,000 visitors every year rush to see the amazing ' spectacle <Jf an egesting rhinocerous. I hope s u cl1 behavior isfl confined to the zoo· in the future. Robert Colman '69 Students interested in obtaining mam!lerial positions on the Varsity and Frosh Wrestling squads should contact, Coach Co Ieman as soon as · possible. Due to recent reorganization, several positions for apprentices in news writing or business have opened on Concordy staffs. Interested students should contact AI Gartner (346·8067) for news or Rich Lewis (346-1932) for business. . ..-·-·-·-·-·-·-· . I LINEBACKI;R I 1 Any stu<lents who i failed to complete their 1 course evaluation polis for I Fall, 1968 LINEBACKER i 1 are requested to fill these •I out on Friday. 1 . .1 All matefials '!computer I cards, electrographic 1 . pencils, etc.) will be •I available in the lobby or 1 • Schaffer Library. 1 '-·-·-·-·-·-·-' Ab Skidm< the Presid Nixon we eke Mow Coord chapt1 Freed a Mm charte t ran lnaugu bus t Sa turd Mond inaugu Ma\ bus re: stude1 stud en up for them 35 Thf ' Who A mer Colleg• of 3~ Colleg1 Th1 selecte institu all 5( Colum nation Lis· Grady Doug!: Bruce Knetz• Ed war Ye 0 ff i consu City,· in t tom OJ a udi Scienc 01 Schen colleg Club Confl Th Club the d Arab Unite El-o1 Thun Or Lond 1938. of d1 havin: the Is from A Orge Ne t••• I • • L

! they decide, l ' decision is 1 the Board of : is all too far ! Union And Skidmore Students· To Protest At Inauguration Students Discover New Book When Svetlana Stalin's book \Only A Year\ is published next September, it will come as no surpris·e to Union College's Professor of Russian or his students. mimeographed newsletter revealed the first public announcement that Svetlana Stalin has written her second book and that it will be published next fall by Harper and Row. fall and we're wo-rk.ing on a major announcernc11t of its publication now.\ He would not reveal any further details abottt the book. Casten by 200 Gross' victory ; race was he won'': Etlandson defeated r 44-103 fOJ,: i.as pledged to third-term of parietals;. ~ He ''wants to to the and demand i I are not J take steps i : Family Stone. i signed for · I • I entertamment. i About 50 Union and for a Stuuent Voice at 8 p.m. Skidmor~ students will attend today in SSO 16. Signup sheets the inauguration of will be posted around the President-elect Richard M. campus for the duration of this Nixon in Washington, D.C. this week. weekend, according to Skip Mowry said the cost for the M o w r y , I n au g u r a t ion bus will be about $15 a person. Coordinator of the campus But he indicated that chapter of the Peace and contributions from outside Freedom Party. sources may reduce that Mowry said the P.F.P. will amount. He added that free charter a bus for round-trip accomodations are planned in transportation to the local homes, churches and Inauguration. Plans call for the gymnasiums in the nation's bus to leave Union early capital. Saturday morning and return The Union delegation will be Monday night following the part of a massive group of inauguration ceremony. dem0nstrators converging on Mawry said he had tentative Washington to protest the war in bus reservations from 30 Unoin Vietnam. National Mobilization students and 28 Skidmore to End the War in Vietnam students. ,Persons wishing to sign coordinators expect over 10,000 up for the bus should do so at persons at the festivities. the meeting of the Committee The Mobilization will sponsor 35 Union Students in Who's Who will work 1 The 1968 edition of \Who's e organization·!·' Who Among Students in event. · American Universities and W. Swan, Nicholas N. Dzebolo, Daniel Z. Aronzon, Thomas F. Flynn, Paul G. Costello, Joseph F. Furlong III, Donald R. Fraser, Jr., Lance 0. Spallholz, Stephen J. Ciesinski, William G. Neidel, Jeffrey C. Browne, Steven Werlin, Donald L. DeMichele, Craig J. Youner, Kenneth W. Merz, Neal J. Gordon, Robert K. Killian, Jr., Gregory S. Oneglia, Craig J. Baumex,. James B. Stillman, Jr., Daniel E. Mead, Steven W. Ritterbush, Denis L. Moffitt, Raymond R. Pike, Russell C. Manker, John A. Duffy, Edward J. Buzak, Donald R. Barrett. ' ! to extend my · Union fans at'• wl10, ·in the and fair play, ,, hurl a -variety t and· at the referees layers. These tunately, axe-; at the field rah rah be embarrassed\ tl1eir sense of pig pen. people pay for such Broll}{ Zoo visitors every the amazing ' an egesting behavior isfl zoo in the Colman '69 in positions y and Frosh should contact as soon as reorganization, for apprentices r business have staffs. udents should (346·8067) Rich '· I 0 1 who 1 their 1 on polls for I i fill these • I s '(computer ic will be lobby of • I • 1 I •• I • Colleges\ will include the names of 3 5 students from Union College. They join a group of students selected from more than 1 ,000 institutions of higher learning in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and several foreign nations. Listed in the directory are: Grady C. Aronstamm, Joseph A. Douglas, Richard A. Rosener, B ruce L. Westby, Jeffrey E. Knetzer, Lawrence B. Pedowitz, Edward L. Valentine, Richard A Israeli To Pr·esent Case On G~uerillas Y ekutiel Hugh Orgel, press officer at the Israeli consulate-general in New York City, will defend Israel's position in the Mid-East conflict tomorrow at 7:30 p.m. in the auditorium of the Social Sciences Building. Orgel's appearance in Schenectady is sponsored by the college's International Relations Club as part of its International Conflict Series. The International Relations Club has scheduled a speech by the director of research of the Arab States Delegation to the United Nations, Mr. Mahmoud El-okdah, for the following Thursday at Union. Orgel, born and educated in London, has lived in Israel since 1938, and is on his second tour of duty in the United States, having served as press attache at the Israel embassy in Washington from 1954 to 1960. A journalist by profession, Orgel has served as foreign Acme Barber Shop 509 Union Street Experienced Barbers - Nearest to Union College Students editor, diplomatic correspondent, and chief of the Tel Aviv bureau of the Jerusalem Post. Before joining the consulate-general in New York, he was editor of the \Israel Export and Trade Journal.\ During the recent 22nd General Assembly of the United Nations, he was attached to the Permanent Mission of Israel to the UN as counselor for press and public affairs. JAY BILLIARD LOUNGE 167 JAY St. SPECIAL RATEi6 FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS Bring Your Dates Free Parking In Rear The PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP 262 Saratoga Road MAYFAIR SHOPPING CENTER At the Sign of the Red Neort Pipe TUES. thru SAT. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. also THURS. and FRI.: 7 Jo 9 PM SCOTIA, N.Y. Phone 399-1630 ----------------------- 1 ......................................... ~ • uruuy • I Portrait sittings available at I Hale House Lounge • Mon, Tue, Wed I 9-12, 1-430 e Free, no obligation e •· 1 Portraits by I Victor O'Neill studios • l Sponsored by The Union Book 69 I ..... ................................... .1 a weekend of \counter-in- augural\ events at the inauguration, beginning with small meetings and workshops on Saturday. A \Coun ter•In- augural\ Parade em Sunday will proceed the opposite direction along the route of the Inaugural procession, from the White House to the Capitol. The parade will be followed by a \Counter-Inaugural Ball\ and rally featuring, at last rumor, Country Joe and the Fish. Demonstrators also will gather with placards and banners at a designated spot along the inaugural route. ••we do not intend in any way to disllJpt any official ceremonies or inaugural activities,'' Rennie Davis, Mobilization Coordinator, told an interviewer. ••we are very clear about not wanting any physical confrontation with police.\ When asked whether he thought Washington authorities would be more receptive to Mobilization requests than was Richard Daley's office in Chicago, Davis responded: ••rm sure that the last thing Mr. Nixon wants on the day of his inauguration is another Chicago.\ Professor Paul Petelchuk each week receives a newsletter in the Russian language from the Department of Special Projects of Radio Free Europe's New York office. Yestexday he brought this week's newsletter into his students to measure their lang\!age proficiency by testing their understanding of one of the newsletter's articles. The translation in the,obscure Blither There will be a concert recital of stu de n t compo.sitions Thursday at 4:30p.m. in SSOI6. * * * * The Beatles' fllm \Magical Mystery Tour\ will be shown in Memorial Chapel Wednesday night at 7:00 and 9:00 p.m. Admission in$ LSO. * * * * Applications for Assistant 0 dentation Chairman are available at the Student Activities Office and must be returned to the Dean of Students Office by Jan. 17. The position is open only to Sophomores. The book will \pertain to recent events in Russia,\ will be titled \Only A Year\ and will contain some 350 pages. One interested student even telephoned the New York publishing company to verify the report. \It's true,\ a company spokesman told him. \The book will be feleased sometime next S vetlana Stalina Alliluyeva, whose .. Twenty Letters To A Friend\ was a be-st seller in 1967, defected to the United States in April of that year. Currently she is UV\ing in a modest home in Connecticut near the New York Stf!!te border. A sizable portion of the royalties from her rust book have been given to charities. Big Brothers Requested Schenectady Public Schools need six or seven college students as big brothers. The students will work with children ages 9-11 during after-school hours in the Yates school neighborhood. Tutors in all subject areas are also needed to work with Mont Pleasant High School Students. The tutors would meet witll the students at 3 p.m. at the hig11 school once or twice a week on a regular basis. A meeting will be arranged between professional members of the Schenectady City Scllools who will supervise the program and volunteers. Interested stude-nts should con tact Frank C. Mayer, Director Pupil Personnel Services, Schenectady Public Schoo Is, 108 U11ion Street, 377-642l. Due to recent reorganization, several positions for apprentices in news writing or business have opened on Concordy staffs. Interested students should contact AI Gartner (346-8067) for news or R!ch Lewis (346-193 2) for bus.iness. ··1 FAILURE ~·· ... You'll never get anywhere without it. Nothing helps a young engineer's career like being given a challenge. Whic;:h is another way of saying a chance to fail now and then. To make his own mistakes. At Western Electric we give our newly recruited engineers responsibility alm<>st immediately. They make their own de- cisions. Learn from their own errors. Don't get us wrong. We keep our demands reasonable enough so that our recruits can make their decisio:rls at their own pace. But our thinking is .. a man feels awfully good about eve11 a small decision when it's his. If you're the type who'd like the chance to make your own moves, see OlE! recruiter or write College Relations, 2 2Z Broad- way, New York, N.Y. 10038. A .lot of hard work never hurt anyone. @ W(!Dftrff Ef~ttrit MANUFACTURI~(i & SUPPlY UNIT OF THE BEU SYSTEM AN EQUA.l OPPORTUNITY E~lPlOYER

Concordy Sports Hoopsters Shoot For ICAC Crown The Garnet basketball team took over first place in the Independent Collegiate Athletic Con fe renee with two league victories this past weekend over Alfred and Hobart. This pair of contests were the first league tests for the hoopsters, while they presently stand 5-5 overall. Tomorrow they travel to King's Point in hopes of gaining a winning record. The major obstacle to an ICAC title appears to be RPI which stands at 1-1 in league play. Alfred and Hobart are both 1-2, while St. Lawrence is winless in one league encounter, and Clarkson has yet to meet an ICAC foe. Bill Neidel was the big gun in Friday's 85-79 win, which dropped Alfred to 2-6 overall. as the senior foward got 22 points and 21 rebounds. Both teams started slowly as the Garnet crawled to a 17-7 lead wi.th eleven minutes remaining in the half. The visitors then got hot and went ahead at 22-21 with almost eight minutes left. The contest remained close until Neidel's hot shooting late in the period gave the Dutchmen a 39-33 halftime lead. Boehmke, Mumford Star Bill Boehmke led a surge which put Union eleven points in front early in the second half, and the big center finished with 18 points. Alfred started hitting again, and briefly led at 60-59, but Warren Mumford then took the reins and drove the Garnet to a 77-66 lead with time running out, and a late rally by Alfred was to no avail. Statistically Union domina ted the game, hitting on 30 of 65 field attempts, as compared to 26 of 74 for the visitors. The Garnet also won the rebounding battle, 54-45. problem. The Garnet defensed him superbly, with the guards in the zone, Mumford, Barry Katzman and Dave Slumes, collapsing more and more on the middle as Hobart's backcourt of Richard Blue, and Paul Gosse! ink could not penetrate, nor hit the outside shot which is a necessity in combatting any zone. Hobart's use of Genovese on a high post played rigl1t into the hands of this strategem, which held Genovese to 12 points and put him in poor position to go to the offensive or defensive boards where Boehmke was extremely successful in boxing him out. Trailing 16-8 with 12: 15 to play in the first half, Hobart reacted to the 2-l-2 by playing Rick Bond on the high post, and moving Genovese to a low post. However, this employment did not 1neet with any significant degree of success, as the Gamet dominated .the backboards 56-43. The Statesmen shooting percentage of 35 percent on 24 for 69 in comparison to the Garnet mark of 41 percent on 28 of 69 compounded their difficulties. The Garnet percentage is not impressive either; it merely underlines the team's offensive dependance on Neidel, who must be on for the Garnet to win consistently. The Statesmen resorted to a zone press in the second half---offensively they used Terry Hatmaker on the high post. When Boehmke picked up his fourth personal with 13:43 left in the game, Hobart moved to within eight points, but Barry Fitzgerald with a quick eight points, helped Union acquire a 19 point lead with five minutes left. Mumford and Katzman were able to break the press effectively, and the Garnet displayed an unusual facility for the running game in doing so. Although Hobart, now 1-2 in league, was not a strong opponent, it is undeniable that the Garnet have to this date accomplished a great deal in progressing from an inj11ry and dissension riddled squad to one which is capable of competing for league crown. The freslunen hoopsters also swept their weekend contests with the same two opponents, as Jim Tedisco continued his fantastic scoring pace. Tedisco got 39 points Friday night, and hit for 26 the next night, as Rich Goldberg chipped in with 19. No other details were available. INDEPENDENT IN TRAM URALS The Independent Intramural Basketball League is forming. The league will play on Thursday nighta. Independents interested should contact the following representatives: Mike Levin-Epstein--second and third fl o 6 r S out h Fox ; Grady Aronstamm--first floor North and South Fox; Scott Bowen--second and third floor North Fox; Stu Rubin--first floor North and South Davidson; Mike Fishman--second and third floor South Davidson; Ray Pike--second and third floor North Davidson. The deadline for signing up is Sunday, January 19. * * * * * Independents interested in Bill Neidel, was again Union's primary offensive weapon in the 82-63 win over Hobart as he collected 25 points and 17 rebounds. Neidel opened the game's scoring with a short jumper and Bill Boehmke followed with two scores. Another Neidel field goal made the count 8-2 with 17: 10 to play in the first half. With Warren Mumford turning in another fine floor game, and Jim Getman's improved shooting, the Garnet controlled the contest and moved to a 39-32 lead at the end of the half, as Union was able to move the ball effectively on the outside and Neidel had the hot hand. Freshman sensation Jim Tedisco gets up higi\ for a jumper against Alfred Friday nig .. t. He had 39 points against the Saxons, and 26 the next night against Hobart to continue his phenomenal scoring pace, as he led the Frosh to two victories. playing handball should sign up with either Keith Walter, 311 Davidson, or Bob MacKenzie, 350 Fox, no later than today. There will be a tournament this Thursday to determine position on the team. Senior Bill Neidel, shooting in the top picture and rebounding below, was the key operative in two basketball victories last weekend over Hobart and Alfred, as the Garnet hoopsters moved to 2·0 in the ICAC and 5-5 overall. Perhaps the primary reason for the squad's success on Saturday was Coach Schmidt's use of a 2-1·2 zone, designed to contain Hobart's explosive Carmen Genovese, who at 6:5 presents an obvious defensive \For three Generations.' Those Who Know .•. Have been ~~\ecommending - BULLETIN Garnet wrestlers scored four pins to overwhelm New Paltz 34-5 in an away match late last night. Coach Coleman commented this morning that the squad looked \aggressive tough and a lot like last year's 10-0 team.\ THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeots from oil over the world. 406 STATE ST. HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTE'R ''3 Union Graduates in Graubart family'• 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY John Abrahams is a plastic man. Byron Barclay harbors a nuclear urge. What's with Grotz? He digs accounting. Ruth Carpenter opts for the moon. Jim Witsotsk.i is a latent chemist. Tom· Counihan will do anything vinyl. Van Dyke sells, sells, sells. George Mancuso is an AEC drop-in. Gerald Fitzgerald takes castor oil. 1~®~ CSJ~~ ful©~® $@mTil®'@nDITilliD MmJ~tmmrotrTffi@!TI] i rm ~liDmm mmiDJrmm ~raMDrmumBJ ~ ~@rdl. We're the uncommon company that makes 200 different product lines. Like pigments, chemicals, paints, metal products, plastic products, oil-country products. We're the uncommon company with 125 plants here-and in 17 other countries. We're the uncommon compan.y with annual sales of three-quarters of a billion dollars-and we want to make it a billion. If you're the kind of uncommon person who can help us (in any field), We'll be seeing you. Soon. National Lead ·IT\~ An equal opportunity employer. See us: Wednesday, January 15th ' : ,f ' ·I 0' ude ~a t,Act t Cot I J r· f ! I B i I ·~~ I f C allir \ .. I l'll I parietals and stuc tee 1 petition present!: prior t' rustees Led Seeki StU< Thrm: voiced o methods RU~ More class o matche first ro yester desired The la choosi surprise college Seco and wil First AI ph Beta Chi I Delt! Delt~ Delt~ Kapr Phi[ PhiE PhiC PhiS Psi U PhiS , Sigm. ~ Cou Of The .S ale H complete proposed Accep class offic president com mitt officers ~ big week, committe capacity. The ( proposal open unl1 to facult

bounding last rs moved ·I ''A Causa Persa Parole Assai'; VOL. 98, NO. 21 udent Committee Meets • • ·.NJunded at Union College 1877 SCH~NECTADY, N.Y., JANUARY 17~ 1969 PRICE TWENTY CENTS Prof. Pye: \World Needs A.n .With A. Stable Communist China'' Action Demanded On Parietals, ~ ~ Asia Coed, Maintenance In Peti~ion 11, r Concocted An Ideology died during the last week. i ~· ' By LARRY FRIEDM~N 'i~ , f Calling for immediate action on parietals, coeducation, · mainteNance and student representation, the Com- tee for a Student Voice met last Tuesday before an assemblage of 120. The above demands. were stated in a petition endorsed by the group and presently being circulated on campus prior to its presentation to the rustees on Wednesday. Led by sophomore Jay Blitzman, the Committee acknowledged \that 1' . the student government is working hard, but it needs help. Our primary intention,\ noted Blitzman, \is not to ravage the campus, but to obtain meaningful representation for the student body.\ \ ,. Seeking viable means of commun- ication between students and policy- making organizations, the group -indicated it might \take action by a student strike\ if no \favorable action\ by the Trustees on parietals is taken. \For maintenance, we can have a boycott;' said Blitzman; \for coed, we .can have a sleep-in. We want to get something done!\ Students Oppose Committee Throughout the meeting, students voiced opposition to the Committee's methods, stating the only· way to RUSH RESULTS More than 49 percent of the class of '72 (208 of 424) were matched with fraternities as the first round of bidding concluded yesterday. About 65-70 who desired bids remained unmatched. The large number of freshman choosing to •• go fraternity\ surprised fraternity heads and the college administration. Second rush is already underway and will conclude next Thursday. First round results: Alpha Delta-Phi- 6 Beta Theta Pi - 24 Chi Psi- 10 Delta Chi - 14 Delta Phi - 11 Delta Upsilon - 11 Kappa Alpha. 11 Phi Delta Theta-22 Phi Epsilon Pi - 25 Phi Gamma Delta -1 5 Phi Sigma Delta -IS Psi Upsilon - 12 Phi Sigma Kappa • 3 Sigma Chi- 8 Sigma Phi. 7 Theta Delta Chi -14 advance their causes was to use exist- . ing channels. · They believed the Trustees and Jldm.inistration would be alienated by the group's confrontation. tactics. , . However, they were in the minority, for when the petition was voted on, the disputed sentence, \If the aqministration does not express a willingl)ess to, negotiate with us on the demands, direct action will be con- sidered~' remained. Lead~~s said if they did not get at least 700 signa~J.ues on the petition they would not bother sending it to the Trustees. The 25-page petition will be given to the Trustees next Wednesday by student Fepresentatives Neal G(}rdon, Russel Manker, and James Stillman. :By BRUCE HUSTEN ~'What the world needs is an Asia with a stable China, not a China that is a power vacuum or one that threatens h.er neighbors. That's what the war after Peat! Harbor was all about and that's what the Vietnam war is all about.\ These were the words of Prof. Lucian W. Pye, political scientist at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, as he spoke last night to the Inter- national Relations Club in the college's social science auditorium. · In arriving at his conclusions, Prof. Pye touched on such subjects as Red C}tina's cultural revolution, the mood of the country, Chinese political culture and Chinese political psycho- logy. After ACC Recommendation Mao Tse-tung was the focal point, around which Pye centered his talk. \Mao has to be put down as the man who defied reason,\ Pye said. \He wouldn't t3.ke military aid from the Soviet Union so he concocted an ideology that said military power was not necessary. He told his people human will power and self reliance were enough to make a country. \Why should we get involved in Vietnam?\ Mao asked his people. \Self reliance is what is needed in a war of national liberation.\ Pye quipped, \You might think British or U.S. intelligence conjured up a Mao Tse-tung to destroy China. But he's real!\ Mao Dead? At the beginning of his talk Pye mentioned rumors that Mao may have Meeting Set On Pass-Fail Option · . . . faculty meetings were closed. The All-College Council drafte? a Vtce ~restdent John Brown ratsed Lichterman replied that there .. must recommendation Wedne~day mght the quest10~ w~y ther~ was no student be some place the faculty can make suggesting a student meetmg be held representation m foriillng the proposal asses ol,lt of themselves in private.\ before the Faculty Council takes fmal after _last ye~r's controversy over a Discussing Communication action on the pass-fail proposal. 12-pomt gra~mg system., He stated Walter Spencer suggested that The meeting, preferrably to be held students had be~n gypped after they President Martin hold regular m(}nthly on Jan. 28, would provide a cha~ce for we.re t?ld last s~rmg they would have a chats in the dorms and fraternities. dialogue between President Martm, the votc~ m formation of such a proposal. The possibility was also discussed of deans, the faculty and· stude~ ts. The ~tch~erman defen~ed the ~roposal broadcasting ACC meetings and of proposal is only a suggestion smce the saymg 1t was tentative and 1t could holding them in various dorms and ACC has no power to demand or now be discussed and other proposals fraternities. enforce it. made. He said the \door isn't closed The meeting opened with only one and there is an opportunity for \We really don't know,\ he said. \I fmd it hard to believe even though there are some grounds for it. Maybe it's all a Soviet trick. \Actually he joked, \Mao and Chiang Kai-shek are both immortal in the sense that they both refuse to die before the other does.\ Expounding on the mysticism whicl:l surrounds Red China, Pye said, \Behind the bamboo curtain is a China that's too big to be real--one fourth of mankind!\ The mysticism, he went on, can be explained by characteristics that have long been traditionally Chinese. These include dependence on a bureaucracy, dependence on an ideology (from Con- fucius to Sun Yat-sen to Mao), emphasis on morality, emphasis on socialization and a strong sense of respect for the father. Must Play The Game \The dutiful son,\ Pye said, \is an integral and extremely important part of Chinese culture.\ Ultimately, according to Pye, \Red China has to learn to play the game. She has to learn that there are winners and there are losers.\ Prof. Pye was guest lecturer at several Union College classes today and will be keynote speaker tonight and tomorrow at Skidmore College's Tenth Annual International Relations Conference on \Southeast Asia: More Vietnams?\ item on the agenda, a report on the discussion.\ Brown replied th~t function of the Liason Committee by stuQ.ents needed a channel for thett two of its member~, Bob S~tzman and opinions and Lichterman countered by Don DeMichele. Jt closed more than saying the ACC was that channel. two hours later after a discussion Discontent Present which included the pass-fail proposal, Gordon then changed the subject student discontent, and the lack of saying there was \a great deal of commtmication'\:Petween students and discontent on campus now.\ Israeli Press Officer Y.H. Orgel Analyzes Middle East Problems For International Relations Club administrators. Lichterman asked, \Discontent about \Students Gypped\ what?\ to which Gordon replied that It was stated by Lichterman that delay on key issues had caused the present proposal had been worked discontent. Lichterman criticized out by President Martin, Dean Palmer Gordon for \vague talk of and himself and then presented to the discontent.\ Faculty Council. The question was then raised why Newspaper Editor Drotman To Face Critics Of 'Concordy' On Wednesday In an effort to ascertain the nature of student and faculty grievances con~erning the practices and policies of Concordiensis Editor-in-Chief Peter Drotman will hold a public meeting in SS 016 next Wednesday at 4 P.M. In r~ent weeks several postures questions on and listen to suggestions and actions of the campus newspaper concerning revision of the newspaper have bee~ seriously questione~ and approach. Drotman, m an effort to keep lmes of Topics of discussion will include communication open, will answer the newspapers role and responsibility By BRUCE HUSTEN Despite the coziness of Union's social sciences auditorium and the refmed articulation of the British-born speaker, Arab-Israel antagonism manifested itself Wednesday night as Yekutiel Hugh Orgel, press officer at the Israel consulate-general in New York City, addressed a meeting of the college's International Relations Club. Orgel expressed Israel's sentiment that there is hope for peace in the Middle East, primarily through Dr. Gunnar V. Jarring, the United Nation's Middle East Peace envoy. \Eventually he said, \we hope for direct negotiations with the Arab states, but until that is possible we will have to settle for negotiations via the middle man.\ \'The only instrument that bind: the Arabs and the Israelis now is th( ceasefire,\ Orgel continued. \We'l abide by the ceasefire and we won' initiate firing, but we'll fight bad when we're hit.\ He added with a tinge of irony \We're strange animals. If we'n attacked, we attack back.\ One Union student asked about th( validity of rumors that Israel has ar atomic bomb. '\Not to my knowledge we don'1 have it,\ he said, \but theoretically WE have the technical knowledge to makE it at any time.\ He spent considerable timE condeming Charles De Gaulle f01 France's embarge on hardware tc Israel. Debated With Arab Council-Finishes Final Revision Of New Proposed Constitution as the staff defines them and the problems the paper encounters. A current matter of dispute is the newspaper as a voice for student body representation. To what extent should the newspaper reflect campus opinion? Also to be discussed will be the paper's approach to news coverage and printing of announcements. Orgel traced the history of Arab-Israeli relations since Israel's independence in 1948. He said Israel has learned from the succeding wars (the Sinai campaign of 1956 and the Six Day War of 1967) that to accept a temporary armistice is unsatisfactory. '\We learned from what happened in 1956 not to withdraw from the occupied territories,\ he said. In the question-and-answer period that followed Orgel's talk, he was verbally attacked by a middle-aged man, clearly an Arab, who took a vehement stand in favor of the Arab states. Following the lengthy monologue, Orgel asked the man, \What is your question?\ The Student Council, meeting in ale House Lounge last night, completed final revisions on the proposed constitution. Accepting an amendment retaining class officers, the Council allowed class presidents to sit on the new senate committee on committees. Class officers will continue to organize the big weekends with a pennenant social committee serving in an advisory capacity. The Council voted to accept a proposal that would make sessions open unless executive meeting, closed to faculty and administration, were called by a vote of two-thirds of the members or by the president. Final action established an alternative means for amending the constitution. At a student body meeting where a quorum (a majority of the· student body is present, a constitutional amendment may be passed by a two-thirds vote. The constitution now returns to committee for preparation ofthe final draft. The constitution in its final form will be presented Jan. 23 to the Council members and will be voted on the following Monday. Drotman feels a major source of the breakdown has been the lack of heterogeneity on the staff itself and the apparent unwillingness of many to work on Concordy. Thus, policy as to where emphasis should be placed may have put the paper out of touch with the college community. All those who find fault with the newspaper and are concerned with the an1elioration of those shortcomings are urged to attend. Defends Israel's Counterattack Preliminary talks between Israel, Egypt and Jordan - with Jarring as the middle man - are due to tal<e place later this month, probably at a European capital. 0 rgel defended Israel's recent counterattack in destroying 13 Lebanese civil transport planes by pointing out that only one person was negligibly injured in that incident, whereas an Israeli was killed in Lebanon-based commandoes' earlier action against an El Al airplane. \My question is whether you truly believe the Arabs are bad guys,\ the man responded. \There are no bad guys and there are no good guys,\ Orgel said. \Neither of us is always right and neither is always wrong.\ Next Thursday Union's International Relations Club will sponsor the appearance of Mahmoud El-okdah, director of the Arab States' delegation to the United Nations, at 7:30 p.m. in the Social Sciences auditorium. The public is invited to the second round.

Letters To The Editor M .. E. Builds First GIVE A DAMN Wtnd Tunnel Here Publ1shPd TuPsd,on· <Jnd FrtdHV dur- ing tht\ schniJl \ t\.tr bv thf• SturlPnt Bod\ of UntnnCl,ll~gF, s~·ht•nt>l'tadv. N.Y. Nuttnnul AdvPrt1s1ng Re\\pr[>- ~E>nt dt 1\.'P; N uttonal E dur ut 1onu l Ad\.(\~tl~tng S~n·tct•, In<.· •. C'{dlC'~t> PuhltshPrs Rt~prt•sPnt;:ttt\E', JbO L~x1ngton AvPnuP. N. Y. c. Edttort.J.l OfflcE>, Old G\·m. llntnn C'llllP~l'. Publt('C:lllllO Off!._·e, \\\htte- hurst Pnnt 1n~ & Ihndtntz C.1. Inc. 410~418 F1-fth Avt• .. Tro~\. 2·1.:; ·-l4~0. Entt\red 1n the St ht·nt·ltd:h p .. ..,r Offu.-e- ,1:-. Secnnd Clu·:->s :W1.~:d !\l',trt-Pr, Suhscrtpt·1nn 20¢ .t <' •fl'\. $n ,, ,l ..... .Jr St dtl' s. SENIOR BOARD D. Peter Drotman ........ 346-6877· .......... Editor-in·:Chief Richard Lewis ........... 346-1932· ....... Business Manager William Ouzer ........... 393-560 I· ........ Managing Ed iror Allen Gartner ............ 346-8067 ............. News Editor Henry Fein .............. 346-806 7 ............. News Ed it or Paul Andrews ............ 393-7378 ......... Facsimile Editor Len Simon .............. 372-7227 ............ Sports Editor Alan Klein ............................. Contributing Editor Paul Farnham .......................... COJ:Jtributing Editor Richard Kramer ....... , ................ Photography Editor NeilS. Kramer ............................ ProductioN Editor Bruce Husten ................. Associate Managing Editor A Better Idea For the past several years, Coneonlien~i~ has ('\{!rt'SSI'd some rather adverse opinions concerning the fraternal organizations on this campus. Such terms as artificial, divisive. fop ish, boisterous, bigoted and anti- intdtectual have been used to describe the various brotherhoods. Despite this annual lambasting. fraternities have not changed much more than an iota or two in the recent past. Although we thoroughly agree with the opinions expressed by our own predecessors, we are more interested in precipitating change than in outlining the faults in the fraJcrnal ideals and mode of existence. Fraternities play a large role in the minds of Union students. Until the advent of such sundry organizations as the Davidson Entertainment Committee, the Nodh End and other less notable efforts, fraternities enjoyed the priviledged position of being the only social activity centers on campus. The alternatives to fraternity member- ship, other than a social living, are still insufficient to meet the increasing net>ds, indeed demands, of the College community as a whole. The student enrollment has increased by more than 200 in the past four ycru:s. The number of students accommodated by fraternities. how- ever. remains substantial! y unaltered. As a result, in the minds of those freshm<>n \~lw wish to gain entrance, and of those upperclassmen who have been denied membership, fraternities assume a role of unhealthy and ex.aggerated importance. ThP blame for this condition docs not rest entiJ'clv with the houses. The College has, to date, failed miserably in its attempts to offer social facilities to all of its equally deserving members. It is important that fraternities realize that their priviledged position on campus carries with it the special obligation to conduct themselves in a responsible and courteous manner. They must also keep their programs up-dated in order to meet the needs of the College's changing student body. Those houses which insist upon maintaining l\licky Mouse Club features may well find themselves unable to attract new members, or to retain their rational fraters after initiation. Houses that subject their pledges to the sadistic and petty whims of a minority of 19th century brotherhood fiends will surely stagnate of their own accord (witness: massive stagnation within several campus: houses). I The question presently facing us is whether Union can [ afford to let fraternities continue down the suicide path. 1 L:ntil the completion of the student union sometime in the nPbulous future, there will be a shortage of social facilities on campus. Although efforts at establishing alternatives to fraternity living are encouraging, they do nol even approach tlw vacuum that exists. As has been demonstrated by recent actions o.f the IFC (art show sponsorship, concern for goals of Black Alliance, et. al.) and proved by consistent social concern on the part of a few houses, fraternities can keep pace with the changing needs of the student body and contribute d<>cisivdy to the well-b<·ing of the College community. However, we would be remiss if we did not state our contention that we do not perceive the more current gestur<'s as arising out of sincere altruism, but rather out of the fear of tlw reprisals stagnation will surely bring. Because Concordiensis is manifestly concerned with the problems of the fraternitirs, we have decided to dedicate thf' n<'xt issue' of Facsimile to .those groups. We have set about the task of collecting opinions and data fmm all sid<'S and factions in this ofte.n hotly disputed area. We fnwnlly hopf' that our presr.ntation at that time will prove both stimulating and benefiCial to the College community. To the Editor: The academic world has often been both condemned and praised as beiNg an escape from reality, a :place when! we may dwell serenely in our own ivory towers. This does not have to be the case, for the academic world may also offer a microcosm of the larger society with which we might deal in preparation for being thrust into the \real\ world. Even from this small corner of society it is possible to make a mark upon the reality that stares in from the outside. The Hig Brother Program offers .the Union College student an o.ppor.tunity to test this hypothesis. When viewed from the sanctity of our shelter the program appears to be nothing more .than a glorified babysitting job, but with personal contact a reaction begins. The catalytic agents may be called care, love, involvement, or a number of other synonyms. To actually care for somebody and watch him learn and grow to find himself and his goals is an amazing experience, as is the frustration of having his desires threatened by other very real forces in a boy's life. The Big Brother exper.ience is a reflection of life outside of our ivy- covered walls. The ex- perience, like life itself, becomes a combination of hope and despair; fulfiUment aHd frustra· tion; stFength and weakness; and success and failure. To say that life must, of necessity, IDe pain· ful is a moot point. For in the end when one reflects on the value of an experience, the good always seems to outweigh the bad. The reply, in the affirm- ative, yes, it was worth it. There is an urgent need for students to be Big Brotlwrs. To find out if you arc able and willing to give a damn and do a job, attend the meeting, Monday, January 20, 4:30p.m. in SS 016. Present members must also attend. Richard D. Savell '69 Movie Review The senior project of a OBion College mechanica:l engineering student from Zambia has resu:Jted in the fir~! wind tunnel at the college. Anderson Mazoka of Lusaka, Zambia, designed and built the sma:ll, low speed wind tunnel to study drag force turbulence and flows of aerodynamic bodies. He said the instrument was designed to further Hndergraduate studies in aerodynamics. ln addition, it will be used as a teaching devise and as a basis for future senior projects. Mazoka completed his wind tunnel on campus, with parts constructed at the college maintenance building and the college machine shop. To Work For Railroad He is now studying transportation systems with the Erie, Pennsylvania General Electric Company for a year prior to returning to Zambia to work for Zambian Railways. He had worked with Dr. John R. Shanebrook, assistant professor of mechanical engine·ering and Maz;oka's faculty adviser, assumed tlilat the intention of the Zambian governmeflt was ·to have Mazoka tmined in transporta.tion in order to irnprove its railways system. Mazoka will be the first persoH wi~h a background in mechanical engineering and transpor.tation systems to work with the raHway system of his country. When he con'lpletes his work iH that field, Mazoka hopes to aim his interests in aerodyHamics towards the Zambian Air Force. The Zambian senior came to Union College in 1965 through the African Scholarship Program for American Universities. He was chosen on the basis of his intended field of interest and his secondary school background. Because he was placed in an accelerated program, Mazoka was gbJe to graduate this winter, two terms ahead of his class. ) I l . ( . , QUACK To the Editor: This let tc r will no dou ht affect you and your staff as water does a duck's back, but I feel obliged to address you in spite of my disdain for your record of crass (sic) silliness since 21 September. Shakespeare Genius Seen I~BIL~~R1V 'Romeo and Juliet',, You and our fellow students may judge me in any manner you choose, but I cannot begin to express my horror at the slogan that appeared on the upper right-hand corner of the front page of today's paper. I refuse to repeat it. I believe and pray that you conceived (sic) the intended humor without thought. Whether you did or not, I refer you to the content of the periodicals that appeared in Dallas, Texas the week prior to 22 November 1963. Murder, especially assassination, has become all too part of life in the Unites States_ I implore you to begin to help, in whatever way you can, to banish murder from the minds and deeds of future generations. Finally, take some advice from a freshman who knows just a little about addressing the public. Never assume! Never assume that a person with the mental untalance of a Lee Oswald or a Sirhan Sirhan could not possibly be reading the Concordien sis. Sincerely, Joseph R. Bedell '72 TRUST To the Editor: The Residents of first floor south Fox: House have voted unanimously not to divulge the results of their parietal pol1, for use in the upcoming Board of Trustees meeting. We feel that our vote should have no bearing on any decisions made by the Board. The decision on the proposal now before the Trustees sl10uld be based on the student's right to determine his own social behavior, and not on what that behavior might be. Therefore, we suggest that all other living units withhold the results of their parietal polls from administrative scrutiny. The Residents of First Floor South Section Fox House The 16th Century play, Romeo and Juliet written by William Shakespeare has been made into a 1968 Param01:mt release. The merit of this France (\Taming of the Shrew\) Zeffirelli production lies in its ability to show Shakespeare's literary genius, his surprising understanding of human psychology, and his sensitivity to, and knowledge of the sociological and political situations of the time in which he lived. An added dimension via the fllm was the acting by Milo O'Shea playing Friar Lawrence, and Pat Heywood playing the nurse to Juliet. One cannot forget John McEnery, who interpreted Mercutio's part with such a comic touch. In some aver age contemperary film, McEnery might have stolen the whole show. However, 17 year old Leonard Whiting as Romeo, and 16 year old Olivia Hussey were directed with such breathtaking artistry, during the balcony scene, that no other single character as John . McEnery, could have stolen the show, no matter how stellar the performance. Important to note is the romantic mood to which the cinematography subscribed: there was enough emotion Blither Several positions on the editorial and business staffs are still open on Rubicon, the new literary magazine destined to publish its inaugural issue this spring. All interested students should attend an organizational meeting Jan. 13, at 4:30p.m. in the seminar room of the Social Sciences Building. A dialogue: \The Law and the Ghetto\ featuring James Ayers and Leon Van Dyke will be presented Jan. 27, at 8:00 p.m. in Channing Hall of the Alban)' Unitarian Church, 405 Washington Avenue, Alba~y. ZELLMER'S NORGE LAUNDRY AND CLEANING VILLAGE AT 15 59 VAN VRAN KEN AVE. (at Hettie Street I DRY CLEANING WASHERS 8 Lbs. ______ \ ____ $2.00 12 lb.------------ .25 4 tb. Min. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 1.00 20 lb. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .35 DRYERS 30 tb. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .50 lOMin. ----------- .10 OPEN- MON. TO FRI. 8:00 A.M. TO 9:00 P.M. SATURDAY 8:00A.M. TO 5 P.M. (CLOSED SUNDAYS) IF Y·OU HAVE NEVEf! HAD NORGE DRY CLEANING DONE WE CAN BEl YOU WILL BE AMAZED during the balco11y scene to run any romantic female's eyes dry for the rest of the picture. However, the acting performance of Olivia Hussey as Juliet was less spectacular than the rest of the production. Nevertheless, for her age, Olivia was excellent, as was Whiting. After seeing the film, and thinking out some of its themes, it is conceivable that Romeo and Juliet might go into yet other productions. Why will the play continue to lie on the producer's shelf marked \projected films?\ Because one of man's quests and basic drives is to love and be loved. As a result, man searches for someone or some people to Mountebanks The first Mountebanks production of the term will be two one-act plays, entitled the Man of Destiny by George Bernard Shaw and the Firebugs by Max Frisch. The plays will be presented on Thursday, Friday and Saturday, January 30,31 and February 1, in the Nott Memorial Theatre. Although the plays have already been cast, much help is needed backstage and with the advertising. and box office. Those interested in working back stage should contact Colin McGowan at 346-4098, and those wishing to work on advertising or box office should call Steven Katz at 346-0117. Blues guitarist Doug Dickens of Scotia will appear at 8 p.m. today at the North End coffeehouse, Bronner House, North College. Dickens plays six and twelve-string guitars, spil<ing his blues with harmonica interludes. It will be his first appearance at the coffeehouse. fulfill his \love\ need. Because today, in the 20th Century, ·•: families symbolically or quite , s i miiarly fight as do the Montagues and Capulets. i, Be cause even the most 'IJ' compassionate Jot of meN, in today's world, have thos seeds .of violence, which lead them to 1 intolerance and then to rage. ·• i: Because man still fails to learn, from his past mistakes, how to i spare himself and his \brother.\ » Because every man and every \ woman has his and her own ; · unique circumstances, which l they cannot overcome. ,,j Hellman's theatre is presently I showing the film, reservations i needed. I ,, . MASS The Newman Club is holding Sunday mass on campus. This Sunday's Mass will be celebrated at 10:00 p.m., although all future masses will be conducted at 7:00 p.m. The mass will be celebrated by Father 1 ames Murphy and Father George Gagnon. The structure of each service will vary with the introduction of the changeable canons and relevant scripture readings. The h?mily_ will b~ replaced by discussion of vaned topics, such ~s .b!~th control, papal mfal!Jbdtty and the social role of the church. Now's The Time To MARRY .ME David and Julie have done it. How About You. Tricky Dickie Buy your Wedding Ring at Maurice Graubart &; Sons, Jewelers, 1 !66 Jay St. Serving Unjon for 3 generations. Mother Ferro's ·Restaurant Specializing In Italian - American food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking Dl 6-9554 1115 Barrett St. ·~ ' -

'} \ •• cchanical Ma;!Joka's ed tlilat the Zambian Mazoka in s railways ) the first in and ) i to work of his his ') ere sts in the 'J ;' ' came to )5 through Program l ' rsities. He of his and his ackground. , ced in an ' Mazoka winter, ., ' ,. class. en Because Century, ·•: or quite , do the Capulets. i; he most 'll' meB, in seeds .of them to , to rage. ·• 1 ; to learn, · how to \brother.\ »i and every j her own ,. es, which ' .,I is presently I 1 ~ ,, ' is holding This celebrated all conducted ass will be James George service traduction and dings. The by such papa] role of he me ME it .. cky Dickie at Maurice Neiers .' 166 rant St. , r)l i I I •I .. / UNION LEGACIES '71 --Members of the Class of 1971 who are alumni sons, grandsons, or nephews. All are white. Will Union's legacy a.lways be lily-white? Aprii'l statistics may prove Pearson's done the iob But crisis of confidence resulted from too-white '72 When it appeared last spring that the Class of 19 72 would be lily-white, confidence in Jon a than PearstOn III, Director of Admissions, hit rock bottom. Despite the :summertime recruitment of two balcks for the freshman class, Pearson's stock has not risen C{)nsiderably. In fact, the feeling that he has noi tried to significantly diversify the class have bred some accusations that have no basis in truth. But because most of the criticiam directed Jonathan Pearson lll towards admissions has heen concerned with the complexi()n of the incoming class, Pearson has concentrated on recruiting Negro st uden Ls. Project HOPE, on the other hand, is concerned primarily with disadvantaged students, botll black and white. Sources close to HOPE suggest that the group would be majority black ,.but only slightly so. In the early autumn, the Admissions Committee voted to establish an objective of 10 percent blacks in the class of 1973. Yet there is widespread recognition that the goal is out of sight. Pearson ~aid that he would probably need 250 applications from blacks to reach that goal. To date, his office has received 16 applications from blacks. Pearson's figure of a black applicant pool of 250 is out of line with the normal ratio of matriculants to applicants, which is one to four_ Ten percent of a freshman class of 420 would be 42, meaning that roughly 1 70 applicants would be enough to meet the goal. Last year Union accepted four of the five blacks who applied. As President Martin said, Admissions is not \dragging it's heel\ with regard to recruiting blacks. Using primarily the volunteer services of the Black Alliance the college has mad~ a serious attempt to recruit blacks. During the fall-winter intercession, members of the Black Alliance visited fifteen higl'l schools. On February 28, a busload of high school juniors from New York City will ride up to Union for a look at upstate colleges. Alliance members will accompany the students both ways on the bus and stay with them while at Union. A side trip to SUNY Albany, which is sharing part of the costs, will be included. Two hundred blacks who performed exceptionally well on the National Merit Scholarship Qualifying Test will receive two letters, one from the Admissions Department, the other from Vic Brown, president of the Black Alliance. Brown is also organizing a phonathon in which members of the Alliance would call the 90 blacks who have filed preliminary applications at Union, but have not completed the application process. In May, two or three more busloads of high school students from the city will be bussed up to Union. This program would have begun in the fall if the teachers strike had not interfered. Pearson coordinated much of the Alliance's effort, but they have functioned excLusively as volunteers. The recuitment of blacks has been relatively inexpensive for the Admissions Department - none of their four full-time men are engaged exclusively in that area. Referring to the standards by whicl1 admissions decisions about blacks are made , Pearson inadvertedly referred to Project HOPE: \No college can ignore test scores and grades without providing a compensatory program for disadvantaged students.\ HOPE offers .r College chance To disadvantaged Even though Ralph David Abernathy did not camp-in on Library Field, elements of the Union community have not been oblivious to the plight of poor and minority group people. An ad hoc group of young faculty aml administrators at Union spent the summer and aut~mn in the preparation of the proposal for ~roject. HOPE, Higher Opportunity through Education. Attempting to plan a program with the. best chan~cs for obtaining financing from vanous philanthropic foundations a consortium with Skidmore, and then R.P.I., was design.e~: Its_goal, according to the program proposal, IS to mcrease rapidly the enrollment of 'disadvantaged' black and white students ... in the three institutions.\ Students selected Wt-uld be \those who would not otherwise qHalify for admission\ to R.P.I., Skidmore, or Union. John Terry, Upward Bound project director here, drafted the HOPE proposal. Faculty members of the committee were Michael Shinagel, Theodore Bick, John Daniels, William Daniels, and David Potts. Vic Brown '69 and Jesse Dawkins '70, members of the Union Black Alliance, and R. Gordon Bingham, director of student aid, also were members of the committee that prepared the Project HOPE proposal. Summer Bridge Program The major objective of Project HOPE is \to create educational opportunities at the three institutions for students who have ability but who would not, because of inadequate preparation, meet normal admission requirements.\ In order \to increase the pitch of motivation,\ and enhance skills, all Project HOPE students would be required to attend a six-week intensified compensatory program at the new Skidmore campus during the summer before the freshman year. Acceptance into Project HOPE would include a guarantee of admission into one of the three institutions after successful completion of the summer program as well as full financial aid for the years it takes the student to complete his education. The total budget for the first year of Project HOPE is nearly $340,000. In order to bridge part of the gap between the students' high school preparation and college standards, the summer program would include an intensive reading skills proaram resident student tutors from the tlue~ Continued on Page 2 WEST COLLEGE -- A lunchcounter in need of a sit-in?

FOUNDED AT UNION COLLEGE IN 1968 Vol. .1 No .. 6 Money problems: No HOPE without External funding President Martin's exasperation with Union's financial inability to mount exciting new programs. js contagious. His remark that \recurring budget deficits are limiting our actions with regard to disadvantaged students enormously,\ was encountered in essentially the same form whenever rhis reporter discussed programs like Project HOPE with informed faculty and administrators. Last year the College ran over $3.5 million in the red. $95,000 Deficit Althottgh the Trustees did agree to a tuition waiver for HOPE students and Union, the President emphasized that the College's financial commitment hinges on additional outside funding. Several philanthropic foundations have been approached with regard to making up the $95,000 deficit in the HOPE budget. The P'resident reported that the response from the several foundations to the consortium has not boded well for Project HOPE. One foundation was \encouraging two have rejected the proposal, and two others hav~ not made a.ny decision. Proposal to Trustees The ?'resident will propose to the Trustees on Wedrtesday that \if Project HOPE is not funded for the coming year. the tuition and scholarship funds originally intended for it will be made available in numbers as needed through the regular admissions channel.'' If the Trustees accept this proposal, the $50,000 already alloted to tuition waivers for 25 disadvantaged students will be used for that purpose. The rresident explained that it is \fair to presume that a portion of the money would go to supplement our counseling and tutoring facilities,\ but that there would be limited sc ho o I year non-financial assistance for disadvantaged students and no compensatory summer program. Responding to reported cnticiams of the Admissi(}<ns Department's lethargy to actively recruit clisadvantaged students, the President warned: \Don't get the idea that admissions in dragging its heel--that is just not so.\ He reiterated that no dramatic changes could be expected without increasing the department budget. -Photography- Pliot agraphic work for this issue was done by Larl'}' Friedman, David Zapata and Mark Lichtenstein. George Kaplan acted as Facsin1jle Photo Editor. SCHENECTADY, N.Y., JANUARY 17 1969 ~eil S. Kramer Issue Editor Paul Andrews Facsimile Editor William Ouzer Ass' t Facsimile Editor D. Peter Drulman Editor-in-Chief The character of each incoming class at Union is determined much more by finances than by racial bias, geog.raphy, or tradition-bound administration. If tl1e college had more money to allot to financial aid and recruiting students, we would have as diverse a student body as Wesleyan or Brandeis. .But Union's resources are limited---perhaps so much so that we will have to wait a decade or more until the long range goals of the capital campaign have been reached. There is little that we can do that will effect a massive, dramatic change in the student bodv. Perhaps because the college community is ]o{)lcing for some reason other than finances to bl-ame for the homogenous nature of the sttideat body, Jonathan Pearson III, Director of Admissions, draws considerable criticism. It matters not whether Mr. Pearson is trying to admit a diverse yet talented freshmen class. The essence of the problem is a crisis of confidence. None of the many students and faculty with whom F ASCIMI LE has raised the question of admissions have been willing to express confidence in Mr. Pearson, with the important except ion of President Martin. tinancial aid, and counseling services, the office of the Dean of Students ought to be expanded to have decision-making authority over these additional areas of student affairs. Pearson's ideas about the kinds of students that the College accepts have been neither systematically nor rigorously defined. Although he said that \we are keenly aware that we need more engineers,\ he admitted that \we listen to individuals\ regarding the needs of the College. Two years ago, Pearson held a series of discussions with some interested students regarding guidelines for his department. The result of that conference, Pearson said, was that \I guess our ideal student is a socially-concerned lacrosse plaver.\ The faculty have no way ol duectly influencing the mix. of students in each entering class. The admissions committee---eight faculty, four students, and one man from admissions---does not make firm guidelines. Pearson reports diFectly to the President and there lies the crux of the problem. The lack of disadvantaged students at Union points out the amount of control that President Martin exerts on policy. This is justified in many sensitive areas, like College policy on parietals and coeducation, where fund-raising FREE WITH CONCORDI'ENSIS and policy overlap. The best way for the President to ave J surprises that might scoth fundraising is to direct personally college operations as completely as he can. Yet the vigorous prosecution of a program to increase diversification in the student body through increased recruitment of all sorts of students requires strong leadership and the President cannot supply vigorous leadership to each and every department of the College---neither his nor any other man's physical stamina would allow that. Since there has been· such a widespread call for an increased effort by Union in the specific area of diversification of the student body, President Martin ought to delegate some of his responsibility in this regard to a second-level administrator, probably the Dean of Students. Ideally, the College provost would handle this task. but we.have none. Regrouping admissions, aid, and counseling under one man would have the effect of releiving Jonathan Pearson from responsibility for the homogeneity of the student body. Faculty sentiment could be carefully sifted and their requests more faithfully fulfilled. The reorganization proposed here will cost little, certainly less than Project HOPE. But the effect that it would have on college morale and student body diversity is worth the effort. A reasoned look at the question of diversity in the student body reveals that little dramatic changes are approaching, unless they are on the way from Fort Knox. Mr. Pearson is doing nothing grossly wrong. But clearing Mr. Pearson of bla.me will not serve to resolve the crisis of confidence. Certainly this magazine's failure to condemn him is no more weighty than Pres.iden t Martin's. HOPE offers college to disadvantaged The question of Admissions is complicated by College politics. Whether by design or not. Mr. Pearson has wider ranging support among Trustc•es and alumni. He represents the third generation of his family at Union. He has held an important position for nearly twenty years. Perhaps most important of all, men of his ge1H~ra tion are personally more comfortable in his company than ours, and they feel a little ea~ier ki1owing that Jonathan Pearson is keeping watch on Hans Groot's Kill. .Because of the support Mr. Pearson has among over-30 interest groups, it is out of the question to discuss replacing him. Yet his neatly absolute rule over admissions has contributed to the feeling among many stt1de11ts and faculty that there is no hope for increased diversification of student body. Poiating to Mr.. Pearson's support among alumni and Trustees does little to resolve the di minu•tion of confidence in hom that accelerates daily as more and more colleges are opting; for programs an(· policies leading to greater diversity in the student body---a question that centers on coeducation as well as a truer racial balance and commitment to disadvantaged youth. 111 order to improve morale on campus, as well as to better co-ordinate admissions, Continued From Page 1 consortium institutions, and two required freshman level courses. Successful completion of the two freshman courses, specially geared for HOPE students, would satisfy the first year Comprehensive Education requirements for Union-bound students and allow the students to matriculate on a reduced load basis. The student tutor/counselors would attend classes and live in the dormitories with their students. The reading skills course would be conducted by an outside group of specialists that has demonstrated success in working with disadvantaged students. The project faculty would also be available for tutoring and counseling assistance. The budget for the summer program ·is roughly $54,500. Room and board for six weeks at Skidmore, and faculty and staff salaries make up about 85 percent of the total summer budget. During the academic year, a follow-up program will provide additional services to the Project HOPE students. For those who are in need, the summer reading skills program would be continued throughout the academic year. Departmental advisers would assume their normal advisory roles. In addition a full-time project director would supervise and co-ordinate academ:c advising, tutorial services, vocational guidance, group and individual counseling, and make available a remedial mathematical skills program. . In order to have Project HOPE provide maximum impact on the local community and to maintain a racially mix.ed and e1f;J;i.ically diverse student population, the designated target areas include regions of both urban and rural deprivation. Students would be recruited from the cities of Albany, Schenectady, and Troy as well as Fulton, Montgomery, and Saratoga counties. Recruitment efforts, co-ordinated by the project director, would be under the guidance of a committee consisting of students, faculty, and administrators from the three consortium schools. Each candidate for the program would be interviewed by the project director or a member of the consortium committee. The admissions committee at each school would work with the HOPE committee. In making decisions about rejecting or admitting a student, an attempt would be made \to avoid traditional criteria of measurement\ and each case would be decided on its individual merits. .. l •., .:; ., c 'Ill f ., 'I 1< ., .,, \\ (. ~ ( ' t If ~- •t ., JA J edu peo j of gr01 I abo Fee invc peo dip] sug! the higl acac A dipl the wou hav1 So\\ p and Witl who Ir East The' for j. T. prof Ster: Col11 subc disac deve The it w awai cone \1 COml Not will H the . Bro\ the c B1 they here prov BI bod} mort ·~ to pi , I. 'f I than o whites Bee~ here is ~ ,. develo] Smi1 The la1 ~ e. Both r compe1 departt Mr. p~ sensitiv

SIS for the scoth college a program body sorts of and the to of the her man's call specific body, of his econd-level f Students. handle this counseling effect of body. sifted and filled. The cost little, t the effect and ffort. director academ:c guidance, and make skills provide and ~J;l.ically designated urban and recruited ctady, and mery, and by the guidance ts, faculty, would or a The ool would jecting or be made on its .. JANUARY 17, 1969 Sowa, a c~emist, parallel's HOPE's efforts PAGE THREE ., ., 'I l John Sowa, working alone, is trying to get Union to use m educational resources to aid disadvantaged and underemployed .:: people in the Tri-Cit.ies area. And his ·impact on College administrators is as little as .that of multi- m.ember •committees,. such as the Project HOPE c group. Dowa, an assistant professor of chemistry, was curious about \what Union College was doing for the disadvantaged.\ _ Feeling that the College was not doing eno1:1gh, he tried to r involve Union in tl\.e problem of the many disadvantaged people who are underemployed because they lack high school diplomas. Ghetto Academy In a letter to Dean James Palmer last September, Sowa suggested that Union consider adding a new department with the function of filling in the course requirements necessary for high school dropouts to receive diplomas, \sort of an academy.\ According to Sowa's proposal, Union would serve as the diploma granting institution. Classes would be conducted in '\ the .ghett0 areas, \by mainly black instructors.\ The students would \start respecting their own a bit more since Union will have given the black instructor a position of responsibility,\ Sowa wrote. Palmer suggested that Sowa work out the details on his own and perhaps consult ~the New Yo:dc State Board of Education. Without further word from Union, Sowa queried the Board, who have yet to respond. In addition, Sowa is worldng with fellow members of the Eastern New York section of the American Chemical Society. They have proposed programs fof training the disadvantaged for jobs as chemical technicians. Proposals to A.C.S. National The AC.S. committee includes both professional and t professorial chemists from General Electric, Sterling Drug Co., Sterling-Winthrop Laboratories, Hudson Valley Community College, R.P.I., and Union. They submitted a proposal to the subcommittee on training and employment of the ( disadvantaged of the A.C.S. national council for the development of a training progrmn for chemical technicians. The obvious choice of bench assistant was made both because :, I '- it was an area the 'c11emists knew intimately and they were I aware of a manpower shortage for that position amid serious concentrations of unemployment. \The unique aspect of this proposal,\ according to the If I ~- committee report, \is that it will be black ghetto centered.\ Not only will students come from the inner city, the faculty will also be people with ghetto backgrounds. In that way the •t I { '? 0 ( <.' Homoge11eous college Turns Al:liancemen off ., ·.t , \. [} t t l 1' . ! fl ,. Henry Smith III, '70, and Vic Brown '69 are members of the Black Alliance. Like all black upperclassmen, Smith and Brown were admitted under the same standards as the rest of the class. But referring to disadvantaged students, whether or not they are black, Smith said, \If Union College brings people here with potential but .something missing, Union ought to provide the missing component.\ Brown is more concerned with diversity within the student body. \The more different kinds ofpeople we have here, the more beautiful it would be.\ He repeatedly asked this reporter to place myself in the situation of the black man at Union; less Henry Smith III than one per cent oi the total. ''Imagine being one of a dozen whites at a black college.\ Because there are so few blacks at Union, \the atmosphere here is not tile most comfortable and desirable for the healthy development of black people.\ Smith and Brown both had high regard for Project HOPE. The latter setved on the committee that drafted the proposal. Both realize full well that the market for blacks is highly competitive. Smith said that a blaclc man on the admissions department staff full time would be effective. ''I think that Mr. Pearson or Mr. Maras, for instance, don't have the sensitivity or feeling to recruit black students,\ he added. John'R.Sowa staff would \have the necessary expenence t0 establish rapport with their students.\ The local A.C.S. committee recognizes \that many of these (inner city) people have sufficient innate inteUect to become successful (chemical) technicians, but that they lack the formal credentials which may be required for entry into conventional technician train.ing programs.\ Wholly Black Staff In attempting to circumvent the \psychological barrie.rs between the inner city dweller and the white middle class American, the staff of the proposed chemical technician training program would \be all black people who have appropriate educational credentials for the program, but who also have first hand intimate knowledge of the ghetto.\ Awa.re that this type of person is \in exceedingly short supply,\ the proposal provides for \much higher salaries (than would) have to be paid to recruit appropriate individuals than would be necessary to recruit equally qualified white faculty.\ Another program proposed by the local A.C.S. group would involve tutoring disadvantaged dropouts so they could pa.ss high school equivalency examinations. Science i11 the Ghetto In addition, proposals are being comsidered that would encourage science education in the public secondary schools with particular emphasis given to ghetto schools. The pmfessional chemists are also interested in studying the science curriculum of the local schools, again with emphasis on the ghetto schools. With regard to the chemical industries, the A.C.S. regiona:I committee would ask that hiring r:equirements be reappraised regarding disadvantaged and minority group people in order to provide more job opportunities,at the lab technician leval. And since the study group feels that they must have firm job commitments from industry to be able to recruit already disgusted and dejected ghetto people, they propose to jdentify the level and location ofthe iadustry's commitment. • • • e mtervtewer wotitte He won't tell you about all the job opportunities we have for college graduates. Not that he wouldn't Hke to. It's just that there are too many jobs and too little time. In a half-hour interview our man couldn't begin to outline the scope and diversity of the opportuni- ties we offe1·. Opportunities for engineering, sci- ence, business and liberal arts majors. That's why we published a brochure called \Career OppOl'tunities at General Electric.\ It tells you about our markets, our products, our business philosophy and our benefit programs. And, in plain language, it tells you exactly how and where a person with yollt' qualifications can start a career with General Electric. It even gives you the first step in starting a career with us -a Personal Information Form for you to fill out. If you like what the brochure tells you about us~ why not tell us about you? Our interviewer will be on campus soon. GENERAL f) ELECTRIC An equal opportunity en1ployer

PAGE FOUR JANUARY 17, 1969 . . HOPE APPEAlS TO FACUlTY, BUT ... ' '~ . . . . . . ·t -'_,.·':I ·J ... 1 ·-. : ,j .. \ .. i William J. Daniels \For the kind of students we're looking for in Project HOPE, the summer program is absolutely vital. We're looking for people with the motivation but not the background to compete here. \They need compensatory help. If we don't provide that help, it's not fair to the student to bring him here.\ R. Gordon Bingham, a member of the HOPE committee, is director of student aid. The HOPE summer program would enable disadvantaged students to compete here without having the College lower its standards. Bingham helps tham pay the bills. The Trustees agreed to waive tuition for HOPE students. Bingham said that non-tuition costs would be met through other sources of funds: New York State Scholar Incentives, loans, work opportunities, and Educational Opportunity grants. But in addition to the failure of philanthropic foundations to assure funding of HOPE, Bingham reported that Economic Opportunity Grants were liable to fall over 7 5 percent due to massive cutbacks in Congressional appropriations for t.hc program. E.O.G. is intended \for the hard-core poverty kids.\ To qualify, the parents' contribution to the student's college budget cannot be more than $625. Although the program was specifically designed for economically and culturally deprived students, only economic criteria are used. Bingham is uneasy about the lack of clear·cut responsibility for the welfare of disadvantaged students. Although these smdents can get free tutoring through the counselling service, Bingham thinks that one man ought to have specific responsibility. William Martin, Professor of Chemistry, is making a study of the College's provisions for disadvantaged students. He will make his report directly to President Martin. \My understanding is that until recently in the Admissions Office, it has been business as usual for the recruitment of black students.\ William Daniels, assistant professor of political science, has been working on Project HOPE, Upward Bound, and similar proposals for three years. \I'm disappointed that we can't find the money for Project HOPE.\ Daniels is convinced that HOPE is \a good, solid program.\ HOPE avoids the \hangup on the notion of College Boards\ that Daniels blames for working against diversification ·of the student body. \College Boaxds don't measure determination and motivation,\ Daniels said, and in the ~:ase of disadvantaged students, motivation is the key desiderata of success in college, not high verbal ability. Daniels spoke of studies which showed that disadvantaged enrolled in compensatory with tutoring programs have usually been able to fit in to the mainstream of college life after a year and a half. \Some students need more help. We ought to make other institutional arrangements and structural changes just to provide for some of the people we've got now, in addition to the disadvantaged that we may enroll in the future.\ The draft does not appear to Daniels as a real liability for students in a program under reduced course load. \I think that this institution can assert itself to any draft board in the country that a student in a special program is progressing normally toward a degree. We set the standards.\ R. Gordon Bingham Michael Shinagel \It is one thing to talk of social realities, another to balance a budget.\ \Michael Shinagel, Chairman of the English Department and a member of the admissions committee, helped write the Project HOPE proposal. \We put together as attractive a program as we could devise. But if the program couldn't be funded, then there was no way for the College to implement it,\ he said. Shinagel seemed fully as exasperated with the College's fmancial limitations as President Martin: \The problem is not here the money goes but that we have too little money to bargain with.\ Asked for his view of the way the College's slender freshman scholarship budget, $130,000 for 420 men, was being utilized, Shinagel said, \I'm satisfied that there is nothing grossly out of line here.\ But he did say that every promise was not kept: \Last year President Martin and then Dean Lockwood made a commitment for a concerted effort to engage faculty members in recruiting but this promise has not been fully realized this year.\ John Terry John Terry, who drafted the Project HOPE proposal, admits that submission of that proposal to the College administration is the high water mark to date. Terry, who is director of Union's successful Upward Cound project, said that for Project HOPE to have the best chances for success, it should have been funded long ago. But he added that if outside philanthropic foundations or the government granted money by \as late as March, than we could get something going.\ Funding for the lrrst Upward Bound at Union was not assured until the middle of March in 1967. Yet a program was set up for that summer and it was successful enough that the federal government funded Upward Bound at Union again in the summer of 1968, and despite predicted cutbacks in the War on Poverty under the new administration in Washington, there are excellent prospects that it will continue in the summer of 1969. The motives of HOPE are similar to those of Upward Bound: \To recruit disadvantaged students, promarily black, to Union, who would not ordinarily qualify for admission.\ The summer program, key to Project HOPE, is planned as a \bridge\ from high school to college. The consortium approach of HOPE was included for several reasons. Without coeducation at Union, women would not be able to participate in Project HOPE. The several philanthropic foundations were believed to look favorably upon consortium projects. And with three institutions (R.P.I., Skidmore and Union) participating, the administrative expenditure could be utilized more economically. Through the consortium approach, Project HOPE's director would oversee the progress of 65 students at three colleges. HOPE was initiated at Union. Skidmore responded very enthusiastically, but they are sorely handicapped fmancially. The Saratoga Springs college's endowment is less than one-tenth of Union's, R.P.l. has made not unqualified commitments to Project HOPE. In discussing programs for disadvantaged youth, Terry emphasized a caveat to those who would try to malce political statements about these projects. Children are \disadvantaged by the time they reach college age\ often \due to the combined effects of race and social class.\ HOPE and Upwaxd are not only for urban blacks. Union's Upward Bound program is the only such program between Poughkeepsie and Utica. Jointly funded 80 to 20 percent respectively by the Office of Economic Opportunity and the College, the program now serves 60 high school students from the Tri-Cities area. Traditional Natural Shoulder Clothing Jos. Nusbaum, Inc. 447-451 Stale Street Our 6i sl Year rn Downtown Schenectady To David Potts, the rhetoric of Comprehensive Education and the realities of disadvantaged often black Americans, combine to give plans like Project HOPE special meaning and importance. \Camp Ed ought not be the limit of our involvement,\ Potts said in a Concordiensis interview. \It is not enough to send Union men off campus to bring them face to face with the problems and realities of society. One important reason why Union, Skidmore, and R.P.I. are try.ing to assume additional social responsibilities through Project H0pe is the belief that a more heterogenous college environment is both educationally desirable for all concerned and a crucial stimulus for realist-ic consideration of obligations to self and society.\ Teaches Black History P0tts, assistant ,pr:ofessor of history here, offers with Malcolm Willison, lecturer in sociology, an in-service course in black history to public school teache1s through the Schenectady County Board of David B Potts Education, His American Studies junior seminar concentrated on problems in black history last fall and one of his senior theses advisees is doing research in that area. For next year Potts is making plans for a course within the regular history department offering tentatively titled, \The Negio is American History: From Slave Power to Black Power.\ \Project HOPE, in my opinion, is not a simple ad of philanthopy that we can easily dismiss as beyond our resources,\ Potts said. \If adequate outside funding cannot be obtained, the College community should at least give serious consideration to the possibility of internal financing of even a reduced versioD: of the program. For example, if s~dents were really concerned about a program such as this, they m:tght seek resources to support the essential compensatory portions of the program.\ Almost from the day Mr. Edison saw the light, one of the toughest challenges in the electric utility business has been perfecting the transmission of elec- tricity at high voltages underground. But this is only one of the problems that keep Pennsylvania Power & Light Company searching for bright (no pun in- tended), talented, service-oriented engineering grad- uates. In addition to engineers, PP&L is looking for new blood in technical sales, computer programming and accounting. If the idea of creating better ways to provide electric service to 800,000 customers in thriving Central Eastern Pennsylvania appeals to you, come in and talk to us. We can assure you of a career both purposeful and financially rewarding. JANUARY 28 To register for an interview, or get more information, visit your placement office. ENGINEERING and MATH: Design, Application, System Planning-EE·ME Technical Sales-EE-ME-IE Systems & Methods·Scientific-EE·Math. BUS. ADM. and LIB. Arts: Accoun'ting, Admin. Systems & Methods-Business We're interested in applicants with either Bachelors' or Masters' degrees. PENNSYLVANIA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY An equal opportunity employer . ' I> I' I> ·I 1: I' i p !· T I . .:. .· B: i I U1 D.A. perio fin all of r \oVC! but studc night the Boar' Satu1 fello, to get Mr. (whi< over Ar sudd1 isn't has How peac adm from Statf apop AI year fresh a wi< of L Actic an < stu dE are r two: is t acce1 revol hand have toda' p~ revol ultirt brea1 and teaci\ and sible temp like I and else co lie; N' this 1 just the t hip pi t h r Unfo fir err that respc st ri irres1 Whet turn seeki voice frust; again Zi 0 AI rccch News sumn rcpor Tl one< collel the chost for Sch nomi direr advis cand T desig least knov news will l list pro vi Co Zi caree of P fcatu L: pub I

1969 and the plans s said in off of are ct H0pe is both for t0 of on advisees ans for a ly titled, Power.\ said. \If if they of .-:: ·•' one only in- for vide both ·I 1: I' i I I i I . ' I> I> Put Down Pictures Of Che; Trade Ideas, Not Demands A Preview:_ ''The Union Book ''To Deal L.argelyWithSpecificEvents Of '63-'69 With a new .title and Hew ideas, the 1969 Union yearbook will strive for involvement from the reader, according to editor Bosco Barrett. students wish to put li,>rward but finds that most are reluctant to do so. campus to the world around it. By PETER J. WEINGOLD Uaion College, after what the O.A.R, considered a 174 year period of healthy apathy, has finally beeH overcome by a case of revolutionary fever. I use \overcome\ •loosely of course, but the fact remains that 110 students did gather u I'l Tuesday night to demaf.ld something from the heretofore- omniscient Board of Trustees, and that this Saturday a busload of yo1:1r fellow radicals is going forward together to Washington to let Mr. Nixon know that the war (whichever one you mean) isn't over yet. Actually t'he reason for this sudden spirit of student action isn't too mysterious. To revolt has become the thing to do. How can we at Union sit back in peace and love with the administration while schools from Brandeis to San Francisco State are practically having apoplectic fits? All the problesm here this year were here last year. The freshmen this year still represeRt a wide cross section of all parts of Long Island. The Campus Action Committee last year had an overflow crowd if thirty students turned up. The issues are no more pressing now than two years ago. What has changed is that it has become the accepted thing to revolt-- to revolt against the iron rule of a handful of middle-aged men who have little connection with today's dynamic university. Perhaps the acceptability of revolt on the college campus is ultimately due to the general breakdown in respect for law and order in America. When teachers, firemen, policemen, and other supposedly-respon- sible adults can start having temper tantrums and behaving like little children who just want and to hell with what anyone else wants, then who can't college students do the same? Now if you've been reading this closely you '11 realize that I just labelled, by association, all the bearded, weirdo, degenerate, hippie, college students, tantrum throwing children. Unfortunately for students and firemen alike, the question isn't that simple. When does responsible civil disobedience or strike action turn into irresponsible, childish greed? When does campus revolution turn from a meaningful means of seeking a responsible student voice into a situation where frustrated children can revolt against authority just for the sake,of revolution? These are the questions. So a gnmp of s~udents decided that the Trustees had hetruned and hawed long eno1:1gh and the time had come for the student body :to rise up and det:nand a VG ice in all po.licy making decisions affect·ing student life. This in itself may be a reasonable demand. Unfortunately there were those in the audience who came out with well-thought-out swggestions such as, \Petitions have never worked before, so let's show the Trustees we mean business,\ or \let's hope the trustees vote down the parietal change so we ,can really have some fun.\ It's ture that petitions have never worked before. It's also true that the farnous maintenance reform petition of last spring didn't work, not because it wasn't loudly supported, but because once it was presented it was forgotten. The Student Council typically didn't or couldn't follow up with any meaningful action or pressure. Those of you who are still with me probably think I've pain ted myself in to a corner_ On the one hand I said don't just yell and scream and on the other hai!d I said our student government, our legitimate channel of protest, is worthless. Wrong! Although it's ture that the Student Council has been largely ineffectual the main objective of concerned students shouldn't be to take over the administration building or occupy the radio station, but to work with the Constitution Committee to finish up and institute the new and hopefully-workable student government. A great many would-be revolutionaries may be disappointed by the new g o v e rn me n L I f pro pe r I y instituted it will make it so easy for students, faculty and administrators to get together and discuss the problems of Union that the Che Guevaras of Union will be out ofajob. Blither Dr. Walter G. Uri, Pflanzenphysiologishes Institut der Universitat, Wien, and Institute of Agriculture, University of Minnesota will lecture on 'The Endoplasmic Ret i c u I u m in t he Li ght Microscope\ Jan. 23, in Bailey Hall, Room 304, at 4:30p.m. Ziegler Selected Recipient Of Newspaper Schol_arship Alan Ziegler was selected to was . the ftrst Un1on. student to receive a $500 scholarship by recetve the scholarship. Newspaper Fund, Inc. after a summer of work as a newspaper reporter with a daily newspaper. The Union College junior was one of 82 students selected from colleges and universities across the nation. The winners were chosen from over 300 applicants for the Reporting Intern Scholarship who were nominated by journalism school directors and publications advisers following a screening of candidates on the campuses. The intern program is designed to give each student at least 10 weeks of practical knowledte and experience in news reporting. The students will secure their ownjobs from a list of cooperating newspapers provided by the fund. Considers Journalism Career Ziegler, who is considering a career in journalism, is co·editor of Paper Highway and former feature editor of Concordiensis. Last year Richard Balagur, publisher of the Paper Highway In addition to the scholarship, Newspaper Fund Inc. also operates as a clearinghouse of career in formation and sponsors workshops for high school journalism teachers and publication advisers. The Fund is supported by Dow Jones and Co., publishers of the Wall Street Journal. ·-·-·-·-·-·-·-r· ~i 'I))Jtfl I ~~ r ~ f I I :1-·-·-·-·-·-·-I. Wsa really-easy thing to take over a• building and demand things_ It's quite a different story to walk through the front door of tl1e building and sit down artd talk Should tlw trustees vote dowt'l ,tl!c p~wietal change we, as responsiiJic students have the righ·t tu legitimate protest. Protest a:Jone is not enough, however . A meaningful forum for aLl _grievances will soon be establisf!Cd. Let's hope the studen-ts '8f Union will be mature enoug:h· to put down their pictures of Che aml exchange ideas ins:.tcad of demands. Titled The Union Book • it will deal mainly with this year's specific events, and those Who effected f,!Jem, rather than the traditional approach. !he book will be '200pages and will not be able to cover all activities. Rather it will stress those which have been most outstanding this year. Barrett recognized the faults of last years Gamet, but docs not feel that retreating to tradition is a viable solution. He is open to any ideas that Disappointed Barrett seemed somewhat disappuillted but nut surprised that, although the seniors could have posed for their portrait in any way they wished, more than 90 per cent wore ties and jackets. He hoped the blurbs each is writing will wnt ain comments expressing their current feelings--about anything--so that twenty years from now these comments will have meaning to their authors. The Union Book will, according to Barrett, be a creative work relating the The Union Book will feature tlle individual works of fiftectl studeJJts and ten professors--either poetry, essay, ur comment--whid1 will be auumpanieu by full-page portraits. Barrett is seeking reactions and personal interpretations of such issues as the real value of a college education, social awareness ib impkatiotJs and rcspuusibilities frustrations in facing the establishment, faith or lack of it in the American wav of life or the very existence of it. de would also like ,to know what professors think they are doing here. · Bethlehem Steel Loop Course lntervie'Ns: JANUARY 27 What is the Bethlehem Loop Course'? It is our management development program for graduates with hachelors' or advanced degrees. The course starts early in July with four weeks of orierrtation at our home offices in Bethlehem, Pa. Loopers attend lectures on every phase of the corporation's activities, and make almost daily visits to a steel plant. Steel Plant Loopers, who comprise a majority of the average loop class of ISO to 200 graduates, proceed to various plants where they go through a brief orientation program before beginning their on-the-job training assignments. Within a sh0rt time after joining the course, most loopers are ready for assignments aimed toward higher levels of management. How about other loopers? Our Sales Department loopers (30 or so) remain at the home office for about a year of training. Most are then assigned to district offices where they take over established accounts. Fabricated Steel Construction loopers are trained irr a drafting room, on a field erection project, in a fahricating shop, and in an .engineering office. ·A looper's first work assignment is .based on interests and aptitudes disclosed during this program. Loopers in Accounting, Shipbuilding, Mining, Research, Traffic, Purchasing. Finance and Law, General Services. and Industrial and Public Rel-ations go through training programs tailored to their types ·Of work. Where would YOU fit in'? Check your degree or the one most simih,tr to it. J\..11ECHANICAI, ENGINEERING-Engineering or me- ·cbanical maintenance departments of steel plants, fabri- C.<Jting works. mining operatiom, and shipyards. Fuel and c<Jmhustion departments. Supervision of production oper- .a 1ions. Marine engineering assigrrmerrts in Shipbuilding Department. Also: Sales or Research. HEl'ALLURGICAL E':\/GINEERI;\iG - Metallurgical d epartincnts of steel plants and manufacturing operations. Engi11cering anu service divisions. Technical and super- visorr positions in steelmaking departments and rolling ,mills. Also: Research or Sales. CHEMICAL ENGINEERS- Technical and supervisory positions in coke works. including production of byprod- uct chemical-;. Fuel and combustion departments, includ- ing responsibility for operation arrd maintenance of air and water pollution control equipment. Engineering and IYletallurgical departments. Steelmaking ope rat ions. Also: I~.cscarch or Sales. INDUSTRIAL E~Gil\IEERING- Positions in steel .plants. fabricating works, shipyards. and mines. Engi- iloeerirr,g and maintenance departments. Supervision of steelmaking, tolling, manufl!cturing, and fabricating OJlerat ions. Also: Sales. CIVIL E:\TGINEERING: Fabricated Steel Construction a:ssignrnents in engineering, field erection. or works man- a.;gcrnent. Steel plant, mine. or shipyard as,ignments in emginecring, construction. and maintenance. Supervi>ion •O f production operations. Sales Department a~signments a=s line salesman or sales engineer (technical service to a.:rchitects and engineers). ELECTRICAL ENGI~EERING-Steel plant, fabricat- ing works, mining operations. and shipyard electrical engineering, construction, and maintenance departments. Technical and supervisory positions in large production operations involving sophisticated electrical and elec- tronic equipment. Also: Research or Sales. MINING ENGINEERING- Our Mining Department operates coal and iron ore mining operations and lime- stone quarries, many of which are arnong the most mod- ern and efficient in the industry. This 10.000-man activity offers unlimited opportunities to mill.ing engineers. Also: Research. NAVAL ARCHITECTS AND MARJNE ENGINEERS: Graduates are urged to inquire. about opportunities in our Shiphuilding Department, including the Central Techni- cal Division, our design and engineering organization. Also: Traffic. OTHER TECHNICAL DEGREES-Every year we re- cruit loopers with technical degrees other than those listed ahove. Seniors enrolled in such curricula are encouraged to sign up for an interview. ACCOUNTANTS-Graduates in accounting or business administration (24 hours of accounting are preferred) are recruited for training for supervisory assignments in our J ,000-man Accounting Department. OTHER NON-TECHNICAL DEGREES - Graduates with degrees in liberal arts. business. and the humanities are invited to discuss opportunities in the Sales Depart- ment. Some non-techrrical graduates may be chosen to fill. openings in steel plant operations and other departmerrts. NOW'S THE TIME TO SIGN l:P FOR A:\T INTERVIEW. And when you register at the place- ment office. be sure to pick up a copy of our booklet. \Careers with Bethlehem Steel and tht> Loop Course.'' It contains important information about the corporation and your opportunities through the Loop Course. BETHLEHEM STEE.L An Equal Opportunity Employer in the Plans for Prpgress Program

NEWS- PAGE ONE Concordy Sports F·EAT'URES .. PAGE THREE . ' ... ..,~ Pe1 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------~------~------------~----------~-------------------------------· l Grapplers Beat New Paltz Meet E~ngineers Tomorrow Cagers Travel To face Winless Williams Squad BY STU MOSS Union College's varsity wFestling team continued its winning tradition as it posted a decisive 34-5 victory over New Paltz Monday night. The win gave the squad a 2-0 record this year and a 12-match winning streak dating back to the 1968 season. Victory number 3 for the season and 13 for the streak hope to come Saturday afternoon when the Garnet square off against R.P.I. away. Against New Paltz, Coach Ron Coleman's wrestlers looked much sharper than they did in the season opener with Hartfmd. They were more aggressive and put constant pressure on their opponents, always working for the pin. To start the action, Bill Munno, just getting over a bout with pneumonia that kept him idle in the first match, looked fully recoreved in gaining a decision in the 123 lb. class. Frank D'Antuono followed with a pin by dropping his 130 lb. opponent at 7:03 of the third period. Larry Stevens, at 137, replaced John Wheeler and defeated his opponent by a decision. Wheeler is still recovering from an injury sustained against Hartford but hopes to be ready for Colgate on Jan. 28. In the 145 lb. class, Tom Tripp picked up Union's second pin when he nailed his man at 2:5 0 of the second period. Jeff Knetzer continued the rout by posting a decision in the 152 ~b. class. Two more pins were. added in the 160 and 170 lb. classes. Two more pins were added in the 160 and 177 lb. classes as Dick Rosener pinned his opponent at 5:20 of the third and Dell Crandall gained his at 4: 12 of the second. Naysim Simon scored a forfeit victory in the 167 lb. competition. New Paltz finally picked up their only points of the evening when Pete Kenyon was pinned by Jerry Hubbard in the heavyweight division. Saturday's rna tch should be the Dutchmen's first test in their quest for a second straight undefeated season. R.P.I.'s record stands at 2-3 but their three losses have come at the hands of Springfield, Wesleyan and Colgate, three wrestling powers in this area. Eric Blair, who goes at 137, is one of their top wrestlers. Blair won the ICAC crown in his weight class two years ago but was injured last season. Cliff Libby gave R.P.I. its only win against Colgate in the 167 lb. class. Nonn Alston, at 160'' has the team's only winning record beside Blair, and is extremely strong and aggressive. Gerardo Brown and Ken Baer have looked impressive at 130 and 145 respectively. Coach Coleman will go with the same line-up he used against New Paltz and feels that the squad should win as it is coming off two impressive victories and the fact that there are definitely \psyched up\ for the match. However, he emphasized how important it is that Union students come to the match. as it will take away from the home team advantage and get his boys up even more for competition. The freshman contest starts at 2:00 and the varsity goes at 3:30. BY GARY PROVOST On November 2, the Garn.et gridders ended a twelve year drought in their .. ancient series with Williams College. The Garnet hoopsters, having worked their way back to .5:00 with vistories over Alfred and Hobart, enter the to1;1ghest portion of the schedule when they travel to Williams tommorow night. Union's last basketball win over the Ephmen came in 1957. The Garnet varsity ·faces a winless Williams squad at 8: 15 after the 4·1 Un.ion frosh play in a 6:30 opeaer. The Ephmen are suffering through what will be a long season, currently standing at 0·6. Playing a Division II schedule more difficult than the Garnet's, the Williams hoopsters have lost to Trinity (72-61), Bowdoin (91-61), American International (7 8-5 1), Bates (83-65), Rochester (92-63), and Springfield ( 118-85). The Eplunen are a senior-less team. The only returning starter from last year's 16-3 team, Dick Travers, is out of ~ction with a broken foot.- Sophomores fill three of the starting spots. The center 6·5 sophomore Rich Doughty, and forwards 6-4 junion Charley Kno4 and 6-5 sophomore John Untereker give the Ephmen a strong rebounding front court. Untereker and Doughty were the mainsmys of last year's Ephmen frosh who were defeated by the Gamet yearlings. Unterek~r returned to. the squad after Christmas and has scored sixty points in three ball games. The backcourt is not as strong as those sported by some of the good Williams teams of the past. In recent games, turnovers have been very costly to the Purple. The hoopsters' past Williams record is similar to tha,t of many other sports at Union. The Garnet's last win, 12-68 in 1957 ~ has preceded a string of losses, the closest of which was last season's 61-50 defeat in the Fieldhouse when the Garnet played slow-down. The Dutchmen have remained healthy, and Coach Schmid will p~obably continue to use the star:ting lineup of Bill Neidel, Jim Getman, Bill Boemke, Barry Katzman, and Wauen Mumford. Dave Shames and Barry Fitzgerald can both expect to see considerable action. The away Kings Point game, originally scheduled for Wednesday night, has been rescheduled for January 24. The Cadets will appear at the Inauguration on Monday, and needed this week for preperations .. ·. . ' ... . ' . . .. •HoOp · Stati.stics .· Mermen Open Season On Road Player G FG FGA PCT. FT FTA PCT. RJ3 PTS AVG. B. Neidel 10 85 171 .500 45 57 .790 112 215 21.5 W. Mumford 10 48 124 .386 20 32 .625 30 116 11.6 B. Boehmke D. Shames J. Getman B. Katzman 10 44 10 36 91 .484 24 38 .630 U8112 11.2 BY BRUCE GARBER Hurt from last June:s graduation, and with only five returning varsity swimmers from last year's 5-3-1 season, Coach Robert Benson will be forced to rely heavily upon the members of last winter's undefeated freshmen team. Coach Benson is still unsure about the freestyle sprints, not bec1mse of a lack of ability, but because co-captain Kevin Hobin, Dave Seward, and John Horwath are all versatile enough to swin in any one of the four shorter events. Co-captain Steve Wedin, who went to the small college nationals last spring, should consistently sweep his grueling 200 yard butterfly event with the competent help of sophomores Bob Strowski and Tony Picone. Sophomore standout, Burt Yankiver, will frequently be shifted from his regular events, the 200 and 500 yard freestyle, to the 200 yard individual medley, to aid Mike Horwath and Mike Gow. Jim Newton, former freshman distance man will graduate to the varsity distances of 500 and 1000 yards to help out Eric Cherson. The diving team of Harvey Richmond and Mike Rone, both of whom boast state championship medals, are being counted upon to bring home eight points in the meet. Sophomores Mike Gow and Larry Ray will both compete in the 200 yard backstroke, in addition to constant medley relay work. John Horwath and Mike Reger will put the finishing touches on each meet, in their individual events, the 200 vard breaststroke. A. Jacobs B. Fitzgerald Others 9 31 7 16 9 6 2 2 - 21 Team Rebounds 92 .392 10 93 .333 16 44 .364 9 17 .352 3 5 .400 6 64 22 19 .527 23 82 8.2 27 .593 53 78 8.7 19 .475 12 41 5.9 9 .333 15 15 1.7 8 .750 3 10 5.0 34 72 64 78 Expecting perenially rough competition from Williams, which lost by only a small margin to Dartmouth, one of the big Eastern powers, in a pre-season duel, the Gamet swimmers are hungry for their ftrst win since the teams began competing in 1923. No worse than the Ephmen are Hamilton's Continentals, who also blemished the Garnet record last year. Rochester, the final spoiler, is always tough, but Coach Benson is confident that this winter they will be stopped. The schedule has been strengthened by the replacement of mediocre University of Vermont by the Cadets of Kings Point, who field good teams in every sport. U. Total 289 701 .413 155 243 .640 516 733 73.3 Opp. Total 295 720 .408 178 257 .694 488 76S 76.8 Aside from one or two weak spots in the lineup, the mermen look tough, .and want more than just a good season. They want to rout some old rivals, plus bump off a new one. Frosh Wrestling The freshmen wrestling team kept pace with the varsity as they posted two wins in their first two matches, beating Hartford 20-17 and New Paltz 23-17. Len Solomon looked sharp wrestling in the 130 lb. class. Also :impressing were Harvey Billick and Bill Simson. The squad goes against the R.P.I. freshmen Saturday afternoon at 2:00 right before the varsity contest. -·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·---·----·-·- ·-· ' i I I DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages • 118- 120 JAY STREET ~-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-.-·-· INnOOUCING A bea~tifur pin with a birthstone for each member of the family. She will cherish It forever. I=Qr Only $12•50 TIME CENTER JEWELERS SIMON SEZ . (.------- VOL. 98, NO. by LEN SIMON The th Congratulations are in order with r~sp~ct to two situations in Union College basketball. First, Coach Chris Sc.bmid and his entire team :must be praised for their t~emendous. effort during the first Ill 1 , half of the campaign. Tbe team, wfitten off as a sure loser by almost , everyone, including yours truly, now stands at 5·5, 2\0 ip ICAC play. l_ Despite being riddled with preseason losses, including two sure I starters, the hoopsters have managed several outstanding efforts. Bill rt Neiclel has been a consistent star for the team, while Warren Mumford has been a key contributor in the majority of games. Bill . Boemke has made tremendous strides on both offense and defense, • and every member of the squad seems to have put :out an rcpresentativ Trustees me ew York C on the parie . referred to P outstanding -effort to date. Pete Palen, Chuck Spaulding, and Doug Vergith have sacrificed much free time to join the team and gjve Coach Schntid the depth he needs, although they are normally & related to the bench. Congratulations are also deserved for whichever individual or group of individuals is responsible for Union joining in the. Capital District Classic for 1969 and 1970. This event is a Christmas ' basketball tournament including RPI, Albany State, and Siena. The tournament was originally set up with the hopes that Union would join those three schools, making the local rivalries come to life • during vacation. Union finally has joined, dispensing with such ludicrous schemes as traveling to Honand, Michigan to take on Hope, Wabash, and Ohio Wesleyan. The Capital District affair alsp seems preferable to last year's Union Invitational, hosting MIT, Lehigh, and !t Hope. Whether the decision was made by Coach Schmid, retiring Athletic Director Wilfred Ketz, new Athletic Director George Flood, or any other member of the staff, the person or persons responsible , have done Union a great service. The next progressive step which could be taken here would be to either tighten up the ICAC into a well-functioning league or pull 1 Union out of it. • 1'. REMOVAL SALE ' The presen place if the tru said Neal Gore representatives ~usty Manker : (Marti Says By I In a record r WRUC fG President Haro he would reqw him to make t If the decisi will be prompt Wednesday af was made sc reading the c Gordon and hi~ Guideli Martin expll established thr to the presidE matter case. He Board will 1 machinery enal The taped president's ren maintenance a dialogue. He stressed study of the especially the 20% 50% , 8uestionnaires attempt at question will discussion at • OFF ENTIRE STOCK - (Moving soon to new locationr- Thurs. nile till 9:00 Kei Professor K would report -survey o programs aero faculty in Febr Martin exp1 the paths of di IRC T n ur Members n ternational attend thr conferences thi The Mount Relations Club Bob Salt~ of LINEBAI will have tc of the s evaluation l receives a from the stu Saltzman at least 250 not filled evaluation these additic will be im LINEBACK] The unev be availabh week in ti- Schaffer L urges all th~ yet filled ou so immediatt

'I . ._ II. •·· \''A Causa Persa Parole · Assai\ INAUGURAL Page 3 Founded at Union College 18?7 ~ ~·~~~~~------------------------------------------------------------~--------~------------------------------------------- VOL. 98, NO. 22 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., JANUARY 21, 1969 PRICE TWENTY CENTS in entire the first lit. 1 . abnost , play. l wo sure I Bill rt Student Representatives To Sit In On Tomorrmv's Trustees' Meeting Warren ' Bill defense, • :out an Doug gjve & or The three student body representatives to the Board of Trustees meeting tomorrow in York City will remain silent on the parietals question if it is . referred to President Martin. The presentation will only take place if the trustees decide themselves, said Neal Gordon, one of the student representatives. The other two are ~usty Manker and Jim Stillman. If the trustees decide to make the mling, Rtlsty Manker will deliver the general intFoductory remarks and thank the trustees for their invitation to the meetimg. Next, Jim Stillman will outline the history of the proposal, its value and how analagous programs have worked at other schools. Finally, Neal Gordon, Chairma.n of the ACC Parietals Committee, will summarize his in-depth report Capital s It The would to life, such seems ' ~ {Martin's Message Over WRUC Says He May Rece·ive Opti.on and retiring Flood, ponsible •• be to or pull • By BILL OUZER In a recorded statement broadcast r WRUC four times this weekend, President Harold C. Martin announced , · he would request the Trustees to allow him to make the clecision on Parietals. If the decision is his, Martin said it a forum every other Tuesday after dinner be instituted on a trial basis. The president urged students to avoid hasty judgement of the trustees. He implored dissenters to examine the record and realize the Trustees must view the College in long-range perspective. explaining the disadvantages o( the present system and the benefit of change. Following the presentation Manker, Stillman and Gordon will take turns answering questions posed by the trustees. The Committee For A Student Voice petition will be presented if 700 signatures are obtained. Gordon said if requested he was prepared to answer general questions on the history and nature of the petition. Should the parietals decision be made by the trustees and should they vote it down, Gordon believes that an ACC committee should examiNe the causes of its defeat and re-submit the proposal. If President makes the decision, his statement will be broadcast Wednesday afternoon over WRUC. If the Trustees make the decision, announcement will probably be made official by the President on his return. In any case the decision will be immediate. will be promptly disclosed over WRUC Wednesday afternoon. His decision 11 was made some time ago \after · reading the careful report of Neal Gordon and his committee.\ Mostly fun And Games? Stu·dent Council Puts Off Vote Ott \Watered-Down'' Pass-Fail By ALAN MELL The Student Council meeting adjourned last night witholit taking any position of! the proposed pass-fail system, because council members were confused over a mass of magnetic tape. According to the proposal considered by the Council last night--the same proposal that the Faculty Council will discuss today-.magnetic tape would be used to record the letter grades received by students taking courses on pass-fail. Council Puzzled The purpose of saving the letter grades for posterity was not easily discernible to the puzzled Council. Neal Gordon reported they would be used, among other things, to compute cumulative indexes. Under such a system a professor would mark a student as he does now. However, the Registrar would record the grade on the student's record as either a P or F and then record the original grade on tape. The taped grade would be used when the index is computed. Maintain Status Quo? Strong objection was raised to this proposal. Council members expressed fear the new system would maintain the pressure on students that pass-fail systems are supposed to alleviate. With indexes being derived as they are now, many councilmen see the system as a maintenance of the status quo, Iinder a new name. While the Council seemed unanimous in its opposition to the proposal, the councilmen could not be sure that the proposal about which they were arguing really existed. Rumors of conflicting proposals were reported to the Council throughout the meeting, but no one was sure which one(s) the Faculty would be considering. The Council will deal with pass-fail again at next Monday's meeting, to which Deans Palmer and Lich termen, the authors of the proposal, will be invited. At that time, the councilmen hope to find out, after three meetings, what the pass-fail discussion is actually about. Students May Meet In addition, a student body meeting may be held next Tuesday, in the Chapel, at which both the deans and President Martin would present their views on pass-fail. Guidelines Established Martin explained that the guidelines established three years ago delegating to the president the final word on Administrators Discuss Pass-Fail A few remaining disagreements on sections of the proposed constitution were cleared up last night. An article was created which would prevent any senior from becoming the vice-president of the Student Body. Rusty Manker suggested this provision to insure a smooth transition in the student government, which he claims would not be possible if all the officers graduated in June. matters were not applicable in case. He hopes and believes the Board will make permanent the machinery enabling him to decide. The taped statement included the president's remarks on co-education, maintenance and the atmosphere for dialogue. He stressed the need for a careful study of the co-education problem; especially the returns from alumni , 8uestionnaires and a projected second attempt at a student poll. The question will be a major topic of discussion at the Trustees June Ketz to Report Professor Ketz, the president said, would report the findings of his -survey of physical education programs across the country to the faculty in February. Martin expressed a desire to keep the paths of dialogue open, suggesting By LARRY FRIEDMAN \Pass-fail is mostly fun and games. It is not a fundamentally- serious issue,\ noted President Harold C. Martin in a Concordy interview yesterday afternoon. \The college and university concept of a frequent or infrequent measurement of its students is vital,\ he said. \Pass-fail is, in comparison, symptomatic of the times; but I have no opposition to it.\ When asked why neither the faculty nor students were consulted about the proposal, he said, \How can you consult on a proposal? What the hell do you mean?--we made the proposal for discussion!\ Protection Emphasized Emphasizing that the reason for keeping a record of the grades of students who opt for pass-fail is for their protection, Martin said, IRC To Attend Conferences n UN~ France, Foreign Aid Members of the Union Feb. 7 and 8 on the topic, \U.S. n ternational Relations Club will Foreign Aid Policy--Effective or attend three intercollegiate Defective?\ conferences this February. The keynote address will be given The Mount Holyoke International by Hollis B. Chenery of Harvard on Relations Club will host a conference \Aid Policy in the Context of United LINEBACKER Bob Saltzman, coordinator of LINEBACKER, rrports hr will have to stop publication of the student course evaluation booklet unless he receives a greater response from the student body. Saltzman reports there are at least 250 students who have not filJed out the course evaluation cards. Without these additional evaluation~, it will be impossible to print LINEBACKER. The unevaluated cards will be available for one more week in the lobby of the Schaffer Library. Saltzman urges all those who have not yet filled out their cards to do so immediately. States Foreign Policy.\ French Politics Brown University will sponsor a conference Feb. 14-15 concerning French politics. Stanley Hoffman of Harvard and Henry Echmann of Dartmouth are among the speakers. St. Lawrence University will hold its annual model United Nations Security Council on Feb. 20-22. Each college attending will be assigned a country to represent. Mr. David B. \Guppy\ Laird, former assistant to the dean at Union College, will attend. Two conferences are planned for March. The first at Colgate University March 20-23 will explore the topic, \At I antic ReI ationships, . Eastern Europe and the United Nations.\ Henry A. Kissinger and British UN representative Lord Caradon will speak. Students are appointed as delegates to these conferences on the basis of their participation in IRC activities here on campus. Club members interested should contact Gary Prevost at 377-8460. \Teachers should not have to discriminate between students on pass-fail and those who are not.\ On this last point Prof. Michael Shinagel, Chairman of the English Department, concurred. However Shinagel feels strongly about the value of the \Martin-Palmer-Lichterman Proposal\ and prefers to see a different system instituted. Shinagel calls for two or three pass-fails a year outside the student's major, coupled with a grading system of A, B-plus, B, B-minus, C-plus, C, C-minus, D, and F. Man Wants To Know Shinagel believes it is in man's nature to want to know, and if a student opted pass-fail under the Martin proposal, \his anxieties about grades would just be heightened further than they are now.\ Center I Dean, Martin Lichterman, disagreed, saying \it would stop grade grubbing, and take the pressure for marks off people.\ \I don't think students will take all courses on pass-fail because the graduate and medical schools need grades for an accurate evaluation,\ Robert V. Wells, Denison Graduate, Joins History Dept. Mr. Robert V. Wells, a graduate of Denison University in Ohio, has joined the History Department as an instructor. Hopes To Get PH.D. Teaching American Colonial History this term, he hopes next fall to receive a doctorate for a dissertation on the demography of this period. In the Spring Term he will teach Camp. Ed. 10. In an interview, Wells expressed sympathy for much that students are saying here and elsewhere. He advocates co-education for Union. Youth Helps Wells has found that his youth helps him to communicate with students. He hopes students will, however, respect him as a faculty member. One student in Wells' colonial history class told Concordy he is very impressed by the new instructor's teaching method and analytical ability. said Lichterman. Don't Sock Upperclassmen Lichterman also said a new program for mid-term evaluations for ali students might be added to the proposal, so that \upperclassmen will not get ·socked at the end of the term.\ Shinagei noted the faculty has already passed a 12-point grading system which has not yeat been instituted. It was this issue that last year brought student opposition, but Martin said that it would have to be rediscussed: The pass-fail option will go to the faculty council for discussion tomorrow. Center I faculty members, h owe v e r , v o t e d ( w i th one exception--Dean Lichterman--) to reject the proposal. Both Martin and Lichterman stressed that revisions would have to be made before the proposal took its final form. \Don't draw conclusions \ said Martin. \It's only in its ba~e stages.\ Mountebanks To Present Plays Union College Mountebanks will present two one-act plays, The Firebugs by Max Frisch and The Man of Destiny by George Bernard Shaw on January 30, 31, and February 1 at 8:30 in the Nott Memorial Theatre. Michael D. Riley, a senior English major, directs The Firebugs, with the assistance of stage manager Henry Barsanti. Another senior English major, Phil Rice, is directing The Man of Destiny, assisted by Christopher Kennedy. The Man of Destiny concerns Napoleon, played by David Van Denburgh, and The Strange Lady, played by Skidmore sophomore Maria Scafuro. Arab Delegate To Address IRC Thursday About Mideast Crisis· Maho~d El-ok~ah, he~d of research for the Arab States' delegation to the Umted Natwns, will address Union's International Relations Club Thursday at 7:30p.m. in the Social Sciences auditorium. El-okdah's talk is sponsored by the IRC in their study of International -- ~· · • Conflicts. Chosen for discussion this term was the Arab-Israeli conflict. Previously the IRC heard Yekutiel H. Orgel, press officer at the Israeli consulate-general in New York City, present the Israeli view of the conflict. Mr. El-okdah received B.A. and M.A. degrees in Political Science at Cairo University. He is a Ph.D. candidate in International Relations. From 1957-60 he worked as a reported for the newspaper AI·Akhbar and the monthly Al-Ahran (The Economist). The recipient of a F u I b r i g h t S c h o I a rs hip from 1960·1 961, he was chosen to be a United Nations trainee. Mr. El-Okdah has been the head of research for the Arab States' delegation to the United Nations since April, 1964. :\1AHOlJD EL-OKDAH To Speak Thursday

Page 2 Puhll.,hl•d 1uP<ido1\ c~n.t f·radd\ d .. H· f-.rht~1r1~t! ()lfJcr. Old (J\ffi, l'na.,n 1ng tht> s~:ho(ll \t'<~r t.·. thr· Stud,•nt C·•llt')!.t' Pl~ot•l1c,111 •n ()fft, t·. \\ht!f'- B~Hh ,,f t'n!llfll',d!l'~c·. :-;\ ht·rlt.'\l~t•h hur..,t Puntu1~ c.:, Bln•llnt: C ·. In<. N.Y. !'/.ltJnndl Acht->rtJ~JnK Ht .. prP- 41h-418 Fdth A\t>,. Tr ·· .. 2 {:;..~.:l'O. ~Pnldltvt•: !'J.JtJnn.d FducdiLnthd Fn·lt•rPrl tn thP St ht·nt·< 1 ,t.i'. p, . ._,f AchPrtl~ln~ SPrVtt t'. lrH. Coll~~.::.e ()tftt'P n.., SPC•lnd C !d..,._ \1.111 \L 1 1tt·r. Pubil~ht'rs Rq•rt•.,Pni;_Jtl'.P ~no Suh..,(npt1nn ..'0~ .1 ( ·p\. St1 .. \t· .. u Lt~XlllKt•'n A\ t·nuc· ~. 1:'. (. cit'ltvt>rt>d <..~n\ v.ht•rt> 1n tht· t'nth·d St.d , . .,_ SENIOR BOARD D. Peter Drotman ........ 346-6877· .......... Editor-in-Chief Richard Lewis ........... 346-1932· ....... Business Manager William Ouzer ........... 393-5601· ........ Managing Ediror Allen Gartner ............ 346-8067 ............. News Editor Henry Fein .............. 346-8067 ............. News Editor Paul Andrews ............ 393-7378 ......... Facsimile Editor Len Simon .............. 372-7227 ............ Sports Edttor Alan Klein ............................. Contributing Editor Paul Farnham .......................... Contributing Editor Richard Kramer ........................ Photography Editor Neil S. Kramer ............................ Production Editor Brl!lce Husten ................. Associate Managing Editor JUNIOR BOARD Larry Friedman ...................................... Assistant News Editor Michael Swirsky .......................... National Advertising Manager Jerry Levine .................................... Local Advertising Manager Jeff Birn .................................................. Subscription Manager Lloyd Birns .............................. Assistant Subscription Manager Trust We have, more than once, expressed faith in the men of high purpose and deep sense of responsibility who people the Union College Board of Trustees. (We are, of course, mindful that Mark Twain's definition of faith was '\believing something you know ain't so.\) We perceive as the chidest desire of these mrn to fostPr the type of almo::;phcre hen· most conducive to the education, maturation and growth of young men (amL hopefully very soon, young women). The best course to follow in confronting these gentlemen (we regret that asprrsion must be made here in any WU) to politic::- uf confrontation) is one of tact. And tact demands that we not antagonize the Board before they reach any decision. Concurdiensis has expressed its good faith in the trustees by predicting that these men will yiPld to thP n•sponsiblt> and reasonahlt> request of Dr. \1m·tin to allow him to makP the final decision in the instance of parietals. We further anticipate that Dr. Martin will uphold tlw unanimouf' dt>cision of thP ACC:. On the othn hand. wr can verv wf'\1 unde-rstanrl whv 800-plus students signed a petitio-n virtually dt>manding I:Jositive action on four of the prime isstH'S currently }Jre::;sing this campus. Students can become frustrated quite easily when the attainment of goals towards which they have worked diligently and rationally are hung in the balance by a group of men whom they do not know and with whom they cannot identify. At other campuses fmstration in respect to many of the same issues we presently face has led to violent disruption of the academic community. Until now Union students have demeaned themselves in a manner befitting responsible adults. It is clearly the responsibility of the Trustees to see to it that such behavior is responded to in kind. s::=.. -- bE n- ,, January 21, 1969 January 2' LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 1.---.L-ITH-ER_____,,, .. ~. At I: Un Adjonr11 To the Eclitor: Monday night, in the.c apacity of an interested .stude111and as a member of the Studetl1 Council committee to revis.e the constitution, I had d\.e distinct pleasure of sitting in• on a Council meeting. lhis group was in the process of clisctLssiing new business, specifically certain proposals erninating frotn the com mit tee w hi ell has been working on t1hc new constitution. President Manker requested further new business and at least two incUviduals sought recogr-lition. Onedf those men wished to offer a 1 jllroposal concerning the new constitution. The other, apparently tirced from a meeting which had n«::>t even exhausted one hour, Vl!anted to move for adj our.mment. Unfortunately the latter was recognized, and the council adjourned, even thougl1 i1 was obvious that there was further business to be discussed. Concordy Meetm~ Concordiensis will !!Ao[d a public meeting Wednesday at 4 p.m. in Social Science 016. Students and Facwly are invited to express their comments, criticistns, and suggestions at that time- D. Peter Drotman willp mlide, Many students wonder why the Student Council does not do more. If its members are not willing to devote the necessary time, how can our Student Council function as an effective body? If the new constitution is adopted, new rep~esentatives will have to be elected. If we are fortunate to have this opportunity, I urge the rest of the student body to elect individuals who are willing to devote sufficient time to their position, and who will not adjourn meetings when there are iss1:1es to be discussed. Sincerely, Stuart Rubin '69 Coverage To the Editor: I must take this opportunity to correct several damaging notions which may have been inferred by many from reading the Concordy coverage of last Tuesday's meet.ing of the Committee for a Student Voice. Jay Blitzman and Ray Ahearn must certainly have reason to be dismayed. What they planned as a responsible student action has been wrongly interpreted as a radical movement designed to subvert the campus. This impression is damaging not only to Mr. Blitzman and Mr. Ahearn but also to all future actions by responsible students wanting to bring about need changes at Union. I hope this will serve to dispel any notions of irresponsibility and blatant radicalism on the part of those leading last Tuesday's meeting which may have been inadvertantly implied by me in my article concerning the meeting. Sincerely yours, Peter J. Weingold Alumnu.s The following letter is in response to one of 14;000 letters sent to all alumni by Concordiensis last December, in a massive subscription campaign. To the Editor: As a fonner member of the Terrace Council, captain of lacrosse, and thr.ee-year letterman in football and as a person forever grateful for the unity, solidity, and dignified cooperation between faculty and students at Union when I was there and in subsequent years, I would be interested in subscribing to a Concordiensis dedicated to condemning student unrest, to thwarting \a vastly changing community,\ and not one that offers me the opportunity \to witness Union's Evolution.\ Sincerely yours, Alan Lake Chidsey, '25 r- r\: -m ·1·.· RTI , On February 6 and 13 Auditions will be held at College Hall, Skidmore College{Scribner Campus) 7:30 p.m. in order to · cast an experimental mixed-media musical being produced by two membets o'! Skidmore's English department. · \Over and Over\ requires a cast of two, one man, one woman., These performances must be reasonably versatile as they will play a wide variety of roles in an assortment of styles. Som() singing ability will be required but no clancing. The newly elected Freshme1:. Student Council representatives are Richm:d S.teinweitzl, John Castellani, Larry Mullman Bob Michaelson, & Walt Sp~ncer~ They attended their first Council meeting last night. SUBSCRIPTIONS 'r AVAILABLE FOR I llttNtw l lorklimes AKE CHECKS PAY ABLE TO: Neal J. Gordon 306 West College RATES: $5.00 Weekdays $ 5.00 Sundays $10.50 7 Days .. ByP, Be tweet and Skid s-tragglin: re specti' yest.erday participa counter-in; to protest the i.Haugt Nixon yes ... D.C. Most o: contingen Union can at 10:30 1 least lO s bus spons~ l. Freedom Washingto for on tb not return last night. (., 1.. Fifty·OI bus from parking Saturday National the War 1 and plann p.m. in W they W( segmer accomocla1 city. Ex accidental was not 1 met at return at 3 I' I Early ~ group joi11 demonstra near the ' for a da)' 'I , .· ' { } . ' activities Mobiliza morning ~ demons1ra Justice De protest th to prever from Mi~ transpo counter-in picket, wlt hour and~ of police ~ with b i skirmisher By 2 demonstr:: more than counter-in tent. Key David D chairman; Maryknoll destroyi1 records Johnson, 1 Three\ released Leavenwo two-year orders to l Marilyn ~ heretof \Wom1 Movemen1 serviceme Derrick A whom wa Reed H< p SN 26: MAYFAII '\i\'hafs missing is you. cpower. Jilld 'Ebasco. At the Si TUES. thrr.~ THURS. The need is ther:-e. The resources are there. Th~· hope is there. But po.wel' is not. Power to gene.rate machinery into motion. Power to illu- minate the path of progress. Power to realize everyone's aspirations for a. l>etter, more productive life. This is the kin d10f power you can help create at Ebasco. The scientific tools we employ embrace the most modern engineering teclliNologies in nuclear engineering and ther- mal power, advrucocf composite structures and systems design. But they111eed the dedication and the kind of imag- ination you cansi.l pply. If you're aiming toward a degree in Electrical, Mechani- cal, Civil, Metallurgical or Nuclear Engineering and would like to apply your ingenuity to attaining some of man's constructive goals, why not let us tell you how you can help achieve them at Ebasco ... Engineers, Consultants and Constructors to the electric utility industry. To arrange for an on-campus interview, contact your College Placement Director or write to Mr. Fredric J. Wade, College Relations Department, Ebasco Services Incorporated, Two Rector Street, New York, New York 10006. We are an Equal E BASCO Opportunity Employer. !_ _________________________________ ·------ ________ c...! 1 Pt . --- THI PLANT and Nul

If I 1969 January 21, 1969 Page 3 At Inauguration faculty Foru-m '72 Hoop Wins and 13 at College .. Union Men Protest War On The Petition Phying their most balanced ballg ·me of the year' the frosh cagcrs upped their rnark to 5-l Saturday aight with a 99-78 dmbbi11g of the winless Ephmen yearlings. The frosh return to action tomorrow night with a 6: 15 prelim against the Amherst frosiL order to imen tal being o! men t. · ires a cast e woman, must be they will in an Soma required Freshme!) John man, Bob Spencer~ Council s 'I I ] By PAUL ANDREWS Between 60 and 75 Union and Skidmore students were s-traggling back to their respective campuses late yest.erday and early today after participating in a massive counter-ina~:~gural demonstration to protest the war in Vietnam at the i.Hauguration of Richard M. Nixon yesterday .in Washington, \ D.C. Most of the Union-Skidmore co ntingent returned to the Union caml>us via chartered bus at 1!0:30 p.m. last night. But at least 10 students who rode the bus sponsored by the Peace and l. Freedom Pa.rty down to Washington were unaccounted for on the return trip and had not returned to the campus as of .:.. last night. Fifty·ot'le students left on the bus from the West College parking lot at 10:30 a.m. Saturday and arrived at the National Mobilization tu End the War in Vietnam workshop and plannij:\g headquarters at 6 p.m. in Was.hington. Fn;>m there they were split into five segments and given accomodations throughout the city. Except for occasional accidental meetings, the group '- was not together again until it met at the headquarters to return at 3 p.m. yesterday. Early S11nday afternoon the r. '' group joined more than 10,000 \\ ani- can J. demonstrators at a huge tent near the Washington monument ,. , for a day of counter-inaugural activities 5ponsored by the Mobilization. Earlier that morning a group of about 500 'I dernons1rators had picketed the Justice Department building to protest the F.B.I.'s intervention to prevent a large delegation from Michigan from renting transportation to the counter-inaugural events. The • • · picket, which lasted for about an hour and a- half, attracted dozens of police ca:rs and officers armed with b iH ie clubs but no skirmishers VJere reported. By 2 p~m. the number of demonstrators had swelled to more than 10,000 at the official counter-inaugural rally in the tent. Key rally speakers were David Dellinger, Mobilization chairman; Tom Melville, ousted Maryknoll priest convicted of destroying Selective Service records in Baltimore; James Johnson, one of the \Fort Hood Three\ who was recently released from prison at Fort Leavenworth after serving a two-year sentence for refusing orders to go to Vietnam in 1966; Marilyn Webb, speaking for the he ret ofon unrepresented \Women's Liberation Movement,\ and two active servicemen, Jesus Cruz and Derrick Alexander, the latter of whom was on leave from Walter Reed Hospital, where he is Tile PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP 262 Saratoga Road MAYFAIR SHOPPING CENTER At the Sig~ of the Red Neon Pipe TUES. thru SAT. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. aho THURS. and FRI.: 7 ,Jo 9 PM \SCOTIA N. Y. Phone 399-1630 . - THE -PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTt!D PEANUTS and Nutn1ects from all over the world. 4016 STATE ST. recovering from wounds suffered in Vietnam. The rally was highlighted by a surprise miniconcert by Phil Ochs. Ochs, who sang \I'm Gonna Say H Now\ and \'Cops of the World,\ finished his appearance by noting: ••1 Just want to say, I hope everybody in their protest acts with dignity in their militancy today. The whole country's degenerating, there's no point in letting the movement degenerate.\ From the rally grounds the demons-trators, composed mostly of college students, marched under leaden skies from the mom1ment to Pennsylvania Avenue along the inaugural parade route. The demonstrators, led by four active GI's bearing a symbolic coffin travelled the opposite direction of the actual inaugural route, from the monument past the Capitol ·to the Mall reviewing stand, a total distance of about 12 blocks. The six-block-long procession was marked by demonstrators chanting peace slogans and flashing the .. V for Peace\ sign to hundreds of onlookers. A guerilla theater group hummed \America\ at dirge tempo and carried an open coffin displaying bloodied limbs of manikins and dolls. No disturbances between police and demonstrators were reported during the march. After the march, small fragemented bands of demonstrators clashed with police on horseback at the Mall, where protestors blocked guests who were going to a reception for Spiro T. Agnew at the Smithsonian Museum of History and Technology. Demonstrators threw sticks, mud and firecrackers at police and the guests. Twenty-two persons were arrested when police closed in on the bands. Five demonstrators were treated and released at George Washington Hospital, while two officers were reported in satisfactory condition. No persons from Union or Skidmore were reported arrested or injured. The situation soon resulted in a standoff after darkness felL Following the march, most of the demonstrators returned to the tent for a counter-inaugural ball featuring Ochs, the Fallen Angrls and the Urch Perch. Lignt shows and strobes flickered while performers entertained 10,000 demonstrators crammed inside the tent. Ochs stole the show with performances of \The War \ZERO IN\ on our INTER-SESSION SINGLE-MINGLE Jan. 17 to Feb. 9-23 Nites! Your choice of any two consecutive days or longer, during this 24 Day Blast in the POCONOS-·just 2 hrs. from N.Y.C. or Phila.!! *Cocktail Parties * Fireplate Sessions *Snowman building contests *Tobogganing *Sledding *Ice Skating *Dancing & Entertainment nitely *Indoor Pool & Sauna Bath *Snowmobile *Ski Area & Lift *Ski School *Ski Ren'blls *Budget to luxurious accommodations. *Rates from $16.50 Daily per pers. dbl. occup. *Reduced rates to 3-4 persons in a room and groups of 20 or more persons. FERNWOOD Bushkill, Key No. Pa. 18324 *Open all Year N.Y. DIRECT WIRE: (212) 732-0374_ PHILA.DIRECT WIRE: (215) 925·0863 N.Y. Office: '(212) 338-0202 or IOc:al: (717) 588-6661 Is Over,\ \I Ain't A-Marchin' Anymore\ and several new compositions. The ball lasted until past midnight, when most of the crowd dispersed. Dy ROBERT SHARLET Yesterday the demonstrators met along various designated points of the inaugural parade route. The route along Pennsylvania A venue was Jammed with onlookers and police who denied passage across the Averme, making it virtually impossible to pass from the n.orth to south sectors of the city. The inability to travel across the city, coupled with the inavailability of city transit vehicles and taxis, pFObably was responsible for many persons being stranded in the city. The parade passed as scheduled without disruption from the anti-war contingent. A few rock and beer-can throwing incidents were reported during the procession, and police had made 81 arrests by mid-evening yesterday following the parade. The inaugural procession demonstrations marked the end of the counter-inaugural events planned by the Mobilization, but many demonstrators remained in Washington today awaiting transportation horne. (Editor's Note: The author is an Assistant Professor in the college's 'Department of Political Science. \Faculty Forum\ will be printed as a ·~concordy\ feature throughout .the year, and any member of the facylty is invited to contribute to it, Some of the questions raised by Pet·er J. Weingold's article (Concordy, Jan. 17,. 1969) prompt me to comment on the petition which wiH apparently be presented to the Trustees at their forthcoming meeting. I support most of the policy objectives involved, but I am somewhat puzzled by certain aspects of the petition. The first ••ctemand\ a procedural issue concerning student participation in the College policymaking process, has already been partially implemented at Union by the All College Council, and a number of \College\ (formerly • 'F ac ul t y \) committees, including admissions, discipline and others, which now include students. Yet, the preamble of the petition opens on the note of student .. frustration.\ I am even more surprised at student impatience over the parietals and coed demands, both of which are substantive issues that have only recently been, or are still being, formulated. After all, the Gordon Report Ofl parietal rules only became available just before Christmas recess, and the alumni mail survey on Coeducation just began a few weeks ago. Surely, no one i 11 terested in orderly social change at Union could be \frustr~ ted\ after such a brief time. Finally, the petition calls for elimination of the phys. ed. requirement, an anachronism which clearly seems to be on its way out. Nevertheless, the pre amble closes on the apocalyptic theme of \direct action.\ Hopefully, this is not an issue that would drive rational men to the barricades. While I strongly agree that students should be regarded as adults (with all that accrues to that status), I would sincerely hope that the authors and signers of the current petition will carefully weigh the political costs and benefits of any steps they take in terms of minimizing cleavages and maximizing consensus among all concerned. The frosh cagers set a torrid scoring pace in the first half of Saturday's encounter, holding a ten to fifteen point lead throughout and going into the locker room with a 54-42 margin. Scoring sensation Jim Tedisco led the first-half attack with fourteen points although he sat out nine minutes with three personal fouls. Howie DeLuca canned twelve in the opening stanza . Pull Away 13ob Pezzano sparked the yearlings in the opening mornents of the second half as the Garnet opened a 74-50 lead with just six minutes gone. The frosh slowly pulled away until Coach Brown emptied the bench with the D1.:1tchmen ahead 90-60 with 6:30 left. Jim Tedisco scored 33 points, including sixteen field goals on an assortment of long jumpers and twisting, driving layups. He maintained his 30-point average with playing just 24 minutes of the game. Dick Davis followed with 20 points, his highest production of the season. lsitpossi passe Absolutely. If you're a 30-year-old engineer who's failed to keep up with the latest developments in his field. Because Western Electric's an acknowledged in· dustrial leader in graduate engineering training, that's one worry our engineers don't have. Our nearly- completed Corporate Education Center near Prince- ton/ N.J./ for instance, will have a resident staff of over 1 00. More than 31 0 engineering courses will be offered, and about 2AOO engineers will study there in 1969. It's the most advanced facility of its kind. Ask around. You'll find that when it comes to antici- pating change/ Western Electric is way out in front. And we make every effort to keep OJr engineers there too. See our recruiter or write College Relations, 222 Broadway/ New York, N.Y. 10038. A lot of study, and hard work, never hurt anyone. @ Western Electric MANUFACTURING & SUPPLY UNIT OF THE BEll SYSTEM AN EQUAl OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

Faculty Forum Page 3 ConcOrdy Sports A:lumni Letter Page '2 JANUARY 21,1969 .Page Four Union Matmen Sneak By RPI As Kenyon Gets Final P,in Union's Pete Kenyon pinning his opponent in the final match to give the Garnet a dramatic 16-15 victory over R.P.I. Saturday afternoon. The matmen, behind from the third match, needed two pins in the last three contests to pull out the win. Union's partisan fans, shown in the background, wait for the final pin. Hoopsters Fall To Ephs; Host Amherst On Wed. and 6-4 Charley Knox leading the way, dominated the offensive boards and outs<.:ored the Garnet 25-6 to put the game on icc. The Ephmen outrebounded the Garnet 61-42 in the game, pulling down 38 offensive rebounds. BY GARY PREVOST Cold shooting and <In almo~t total lack of rebounding ..:ombm..:d tu ~p~Il t h..: dov. nfall of th..: Garn~t ..:ager~ SJturd<ty night. J~ the) dropped J. 77-63 decision to previou~ly wmlcs~ Williams on the winner's ..:ourt. The 5·6 Dut..:hmen cagers will attempt to return to the .5 00 mark when they face a strong Amherst squad in the Fieldhouse tomorrow night at 8:00. 1-oul trouble was a heavy contributor in the Garnet's failure to control the boards, and ultimately resulted in Williams' twelfth consec.:u tive victory in the series. Center Bill Boemke picked up four goals in the first half and eventually f<luled out with ten minutes to play. Sophomore Barry Fitzgerald. who replaced Boemke. fouled three times in the first half and departed for good with nine and a half minutes rcmaming in the wnte.1t. Early Lead The C.Hnd houJ>,t..:r' jumped to Jn e.trl~ 8·1 kad. bitt following a William~ rail) the ·dopp) fir,t half mded '' ith the Lplm1e n rarrying a 36-34 lead into the locker room. Bill Neidel and Warren Mumford sparked the Union first-half attack with a to tal of ~even teen points. The first ten minutes of the 'ec.:ond half were Clo1ely contested, with the score being tied si:\ times. Th~ momentum '>h!fted when both 13o~mke and Fitzgerald were forced out of the game with five personals. When Fitzgerald departed, theGarnet were holding their final lead of the night, 50-48. , Gamet Outre bounded In the next seven minutes, the Lphmen. w1th 6-5 J<lh.n Untereker The Garnet were unable to penetrate the Williams man-to-man defense. The hoopsters shot poorly from the out~ide, finishing with 24 of 7'!. ( 33\;) for the night. The Ephmen were only slightly better, hitting on 32 of 76 for 42 per cent. Bill Neidel led the Garnet scoring with 21 points, but it was not one of Neidcl's best ballgarncs. The senior co-captain was off his shooting mark until a late flurry. Most importantly, Bill managed just four rebounds. Guard Warren Mumford led the Dutchmen rebounders with nine. Swi·m 'Tops Norwich. Amherst, a Division ll school, comes to Schenectady with a 6-3 record, and is a fine defensive ball club. After dropping an opening-game decision to Dartmouth 5 2-46, the Lord Jeffs won four in a row, defeating Bowdoin (64-48), Brandeis (70-53), Middlebury (92-68) and Hartford (74-67). The Gamet dropped an 88-80 overtime decision to Hartford in the second game of the season. A year ago at Amherst the Lord Jeffs used a strong second half to defeat the Garnet, 78-66. Auten, Hart, Evans, and Bollinger all started last year and are returning with an added year's experience. BY BRUCE GARBER \Though the times were not impressive. the winning margin was great,\ was how co-t:aptain Steve Werlin summed up Union's opening 69-35 win at the Norwich pool Saturday. The meet started well for the Garnet, with the medley relay team of Mike Gow, John Horwath, Steve Werlin, and Kevin Hobin jumping out to capture the first seven points in 4:04.2, only a few seconds off the Union record. Next off the blocks was sophomore Burt Yankiver, who easily set new Union College and Norwich pool records in the 1000 yard freestyle with a time of 11:57.8, eclipsing the old Union mark by more than ten seconds. Jim Newton finished second for the sweep. Later in the meet Yankiver and Newton again combined to shut out Norwich in the 5 00 yard freestyle. Harvey Richmond and Mike Rone collected first and second place JAY BILLIARD LOUNGE 167 JAY ST. SPECIAL RATES FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS Bring Your Dates Free Parking In Rear honors respectively in the diving, giving Union a di:>tincl 1 7 point advantage. In the fol!owing event Werlin and Bob Szatrowski all but clinched the win with a one-two finish in the 200 yard butterfly. Insurance points were ac:wmulated by co-captain Kevin Hollin and Dave Se1vard, who efforlle>siy >WCJ:!t the 100 yard freestyle, and John H<lrwath, who wo11 the 200 yard breasts! roke. Following the meet, Coach Robert Benson reflected. \We'll have to do better times against a tough Hobart squad next Saturday for a win.\ \For three Generations.' rhose Who Know. Have been recommending - Acme Barber Shop 509 Union Street Experienced Barbers Nearest to Union College Students HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER 41 \3 l)nion Graduates in Graubart Family•• 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SER.VICE AND GOOD JEWELRY BY STU MOSS Victory number three came for Union Colle&c's varsity wrestling team, even if it did come the hard way. Pete Kenyon had to pin his man i11 the last match to enable the Garnet to sneak by R.P .L 16-15 Saturday afternoon. The win left the squad with a 3-0 season record, kept their consecutive win,11ing streak inta~t at 13 and gave R.P .I. their fo1.1rth loss in six. matches. MunnoW:ins Bill Munno, slwwing decisive control over his opponent throughout the match, gave Union the lead when he took home a decision in the 123 lb. class. However, R.P.l. came right back as Gerardo Brown defeated Frank D'Antuono by a decision at 130 lbs. This was Brown's first win against D' Antuono in three matches and evened the team point score. In one of the best contests of the afternoon, Eric Blair of R.P.I. won by decision over Larry Stevens, who replaced the injured John Wheeler at 137. Stevens wrestled extremely well before narrowly losing to Blair, who is probably the Engineers needed a pin and its five points top matman. R.P.I. increased its to pull out the match. Kenyon • lead to 9-3 when KeN Baer beat gave it ·tu them as he nailed his Union's Tom Tripp at 145, also opponeNt and the Engineers at by a decision. Jeff Knetzer 2:38 of the second period. stopped the Dutchmen's skid Officiit.ting Questioned when he posted a decision over Concerning the officiating, his 152 lb. opponent. In an Coacl1 Ron Coleman said that he aggressi¥e I 60 lb. duel between had \absolutely no complaints\ Unio-n's Dick Rosener .and about Mur:tay O'Neil. A number R.P.I.'s Norm Alstofl, RP.I. of partisan Union fans who took the closest decision of the traveled to Troy for the match match by a score of 6-5 · thought that the ref did not call Simon Pins a stalemate quick enough in the Naysim Simon brought Union B ro wn-D' Antuono rnatch, to within oJ:Je point of the lead cheated ;Rosener out of a point as he gained the first pin of the that would' have tied his contest day at 2:02 of the second and made a number of period. Simon, a 167 lb. Junior inconsistent out-of-b·ounds who is undefeated in varsity dual decisions. Coach Coleman said matches, showed why as he that Mr. O'Neil is one of the top dominated the contest until he refs in this area, and will put his opponent away· Brian officiate both the Colgate and Crandall then lost to John Kings Point matches. Pandish of R.P .L in the 177 lb. Although happy about the class to widen the Engineer's win, Coach Coleman was not lead to 15-l I. Although both impressed with the way his boys w res tiers ended the match even wrestled. R.P .I. was definitely in points, Pandish was given the up fur the match while Union victory on the strength of the was not as sharp as they can be. two points he had accumulated He added that the team will have in riding time. With only the to do better against Hobart next heavyweight division still to be Saturday .in an away game if decided and R.P.I. up by four they want to see victory. points. the Garnet knew they \ '~ l. ·~ • c ~--·;::,-....... . . - 1. . ' Reading Getting You Down? Keep up wHh the studies this year by learning to read taster and better. The way you're reading right now- word by word- is the way people read a hundred years ago. But who needs to read as they did in horse-and-buggy days when a revolutionary new technique makes it possible to get through a book at a dramatically faster rate and with top comprehension. This is the technique discovered by Evelyn Wood, based on her extensive research into reading patterns of natural speed readers. She's called it Take a FREE ~~'lhl~ JJJUQUUL.Jl•lesson Come and see what the Wood method is all about. Learn to read faster on tile spot. See dramatic film showing graduates in action. Reading Dynamics. And her course works. If after takir:1g it you haven't at least tripled your reading speed (with equal or better comprehension based on the beginning and ending tests), your entire tuition will be refunded. If reading is one of your hang-ups, how can you afford not to look into the Evelyn Wor>d course? It could make the big difference for you this year. WHERE: Holiday Inn WHEN: Wed. Jan. 22 TIME: 8:00 P.M. Special reducecl rate for Union Students and Faculty For Information Contact Campus Rep. Bob Mi ch eel son 346-9895 Et'Plyn vVood READING DYNAMICS INSTITUTE Adm. Offices: 1654 Central Avenue, Albany, New York p chaitma For Samuel phi a been t Union Colle succeeds M1 resident of America. Dr. Ral1 Francisco, n in Cor chairman of William ttorney. Fortenba 1963, electi< By \'military [ rule\ and refugees ha Israel befor~ just settlet p not 01 ionalism Zionist on the other. • He said ..1rose as a n f the Jew ·he Mosle.n olerant oat io nalitie: )lie of th Jewish cult ,!Ilder an At He state lews const . 50,000 pe vlcMahon ~uaranteed oat ions,

e Four points . Kenvon d. his at d that he number who 1e match not call in the match, f a poiNt s contest of said the top will gate and the was not his boys lc Union y can be. will have bart next game if -,, ,:·.1 .,._,..,.,,....,. J \'''A Causa Persa,Parole Assai'' MORE NEWS PAGE 5 ---------·--\ Pounded at Union c~IJege 1877 BOARD CHAIRMAN: Samuel Fortenbaugh, '23, fonner Concordiensis Editor, chairman of the Board of Trustees. Photo by Rich Kramer Fortenbaugh Gains Com:man.d Samuel B. Fortenbaugh, Jr., a phia attorney and industrialist, been elected chairman of the Union College Board of Trustees. He succeeds Meade Brunet, retired vice resident of the Radio Corporation of America. 1 Dr. Ralph D. Bennett of San Francisco, retired vice president of the in Company, was named vice chairman of Union's board to succeed William A. Waldron, a Boston rney. Fortenbaugh has been a trustee 1963, Dr. Bennett since 1946. election took place at the At IRC Meeting regularly-scheduled January meeting oftl1e board in New York City. A. native of London, England, Fortenbaugh moved to Schenectady in 1906 when his father, an engineer, j oinecl the General Electric Co. After graduating from Union with a B:S. in 1923, he took his law degree at Harvud in 1926. Dr. Bennett was born in Williamson, N.Y. He is a 1921 graduate of Union, with a B.S. He took his doctorate at the Universjty of Chicago in 1925 and was awarded· an honorary Doctor of Science degree by Union in 1945. SCHENECTADY, N.Y.,J,ANU~RY 24, 1969 PRICE TWENTY CENTS Second Junior- Year Comp.Ed. In Eur~e To Begin In F_all By ALAN MELL orientation period and the flight to International Training, in Brattleboro, France, has been set by Professor Vermont, will conduct the orientation Approximately thirty juniors will be taking their Cornpreo-hensive Educat.ion courses in Fmnce next fall, when the Modern La·n_guages Departme.nt initiates its second overseas Junior Year Project, according to Alan Roberts, a ,Frofessor of French, who has mganiz:.ed the project. The students, each of whom will I<ive with a different French fa.mily ·ill either Reims or Besai1Con, vwill be selected from a list of interested students who have completed a French cmase at the 30 level. Spanish To G~me The first overseas Conp. Ed. program is scheduled <to begin in Vienna this spring. Professor :Roberts predicted, in an interview ye!;;terday, that a Winter term Spmish pl-ogram, conducted some'v_Vhere in Latin Amer.ica, would be organized in the future. Once the three .(>'rograns are running it would be possible for the college to increase its enrollment by about 30, since apprGximateLy t-hat number of students wottld b-e ~ff the carnpusevery tenn. The French Program Ius been designed to give each student p~rsonal contact with all aspects of Frenoeh life. In addition to the experie11ce of living in a French home, .the students will be taking two courses which are conducted by native French prl>' fessors and an independent studies course. To Receive Credit Participants in the program will receive two Comp. Ed. credits,one for the independent studiescmnseand the other for a course entitled' \Area Studies.\ The third course wilL be an equivalent of French 34. The cost of all aspects «:>f the program, including a t~n-day Roberts at $1200, which is program beginning September lOth. comporable to the cost of a term at The flight to France will leave on the URion. 21st. Scholarships.Applicable On December 3rd the term in Roberts noted that all scholarships France will end and students will have are applicable and therefore envisioned the option of returning to the States no financial problems for eligible immediately or remaining in Europe students. on their own until the beginning of the Estimating that 350 students who Winter term at Union. are now SophomoFes have taken a ln Midst of Former Chaos French 30 level course at Union or Professor Roberts will be directing FRENCH PROFESSOR: Professor Alan Roberts discussing the new Comp Ed program to Reirns, France. ' 1-0kdah Discusses ''Palestine\ .. have received credit for the equivalent, Roberts looks forward to a sizeable list of applicants. the program next fall from one of the· two cities and will supervise the independent studies projects undertaken by the Union students in that city. Students in the other city will be aided by a professor from another American university. By A LAN KLEIN Mr. Mahoud El-Okdah, the Director of Research of the Arab States' ........ \\''\'\''\ to the United Nations, told a Union International Relations Club audience yesterday that Israeli \'military might cannot continue to rule\ and that all the Palistinian refugees have to be repatriated into Israel before there'will be \the basis of just settlement.\ \'The Palestinian wants to be repatriated and it is his right,\ was the statem~nt in Mr. El-Okdah's case on the refugees. He also contended that the refqgees had been forced out \'their country\ by the Israelis. Mr. EI-Okdah said that the conflict is not one of religions or of ·ionalism but of idealogies, the Zionist on one hand and the Arab on the other. Zionist Idealogy He said that the Zionist idealogy, .1rose as a result of Western persection f the Jews and that by comparison , he Moslem world has always been ole rant of all religions and nationalities. He further stated that )fie of the greatest flowerings of Jewish culture was in Moorish Spain Jnder an Arab government. He stated that after World War I, lews constituted only 5600 of the . 50,000 people in Palistine, that the vlcMahon correspondence had ~uaranteed mvereignty to all Arab nations, and that the Balfour Decleration had been authorized by the Palistinians. The Balfour Declaration said that Britain would look with favor on the establishment of a Jewish homeland in Palistine provided that the rights of,the original inhabitants were respected. Mandate Mr. El-Okdah said that the mandate sys tern was a \'nice name for colonization\ and the Arabs \did not like, did not accept, and resisted the ruanda tes .\ \England he said, \'imposed open gates\ to European Jewish immigration. Th.e Arab then discussed the United Nations Partition Resolution of I 94 7 and !;aid that the Arab-Israeli War of that year was a result of the expulsion of Ar2bs living in the territory alloted to the Jewish state. He criticized President J ohonson's actior1 during the Arab-Israeli War of 196 7 and set up President DeGaulle's actiolls as a model. He contended that Israel fired the first shot in the Six-Day War and hence must receive the blame. Closing the 'Straits of Tiran was, he said, a legitimate use of Egyptian sovereignty overthese waters. Package Deal He said that the Arab States, with the exception of Syria, would accept a package deal based on tll.e Security Council Resolution of November, 1967, and including coillplete repatriation of all Arab refugees. The question-and-answer period enlivened by a student who ;pointed out that it is unrealistic to expect Israel to accept a miliio11 Arabs dedicated to its destn.tction Other questioners were a man wh() daimed to be a Palistinian refugee and a lady who said that she had taught at the American University of Beruit.. Both of course agreed with tlle spea..ker on the refugee problem. However, students must also have a 2.5 index to be eligible. Applicants will be screened and asked to propose a plan for their independent study course before being accepted into the program. Freshmen who are interested in participating in the project in their sophomore year are invited to apply, according to Roberts, but he warns juniors will have priority. To Immerse in Language The orientation period is designed to immerse students in the French language, as a hint of what they can expect in France. The School of Noting that the French universities are in the midst of chaos, in the wake of last May's upheavals, Roberts pointed out that Union's program has been arranged in co1~unction with the Experiment in International Living, independently of the French schools. The Experiment is an American organization which conducts many similar programs for both individuals and groups. Social Science Faculty Votes Unanimously To Study Involvement With Disadvantaged The faculty of Division 1 11 voted unanimously to request t,Jt.at the President appoint a tri.-partite committee to study .all facets of U n i o n ' s in v o I v e rne n t w i t h disadvantaged students . The social sciences faculty acted without knowing the Trustees had accepted a proposal Wednesda.y from President Martin that w<Jald e:nsure a previous Trustee,commitment,to waive tuition for 25 disadvantaged students. This would occur regar<il.oss of whether Project HDPE received outside funding. According to Erik Hansen,.a. ssistant professor of history and set;re tary of Division ll, the student -fa c ulty-admi ni st ration committee would make the sanle sort of study as the student-faculty committee on AfrkaJI and Afro-American studies at Harvard University. Excerpts from the Harvard report on an American Negro studies program were printed in the New York Times on Wednesday and were praised in theTimes yesterday editorially and by columnist Tom Wicker. The Trustee action sustaining a previous commitment was necessitated by the College's lack of success in receiving outside funding for Project HOPE·· a consortium effort ofR.P.I., Skidmore, and Union to admit disadvantaged students, who would not otherwise qualify for admission to any of the three institutions. Project HOPE's most important feature was a provision for a compensatory sun1mer program and collateral support for the disadvantaged students recruited through this program. The Division II request to the President resulted from a discussion that was initiated by a resolution written by William Bennett, associate professor of economics. In addition to encouraging the President to continue ·to seek funds for HOPE, Bennett's resolution asked the College to re-evaluate the priorities of the capital campaign with regard to the disadvantaged. Bennett also called for a study of the needs and the establishment of opportunities for a Black studies center, among area colleges. The C allege's hiring, investment, and sub-contracting policies were other areas suggested for study so that the College might aid the poverty community.

- ------------------------------------------~~~~~~----------------------------------------~~~~~~1 PAGE 2 CONCOR·DIENSIS ~------------------ ~·~w -------------------~--------------~----==~~~~~~------------------------------------------------------------~~-- §1\~~ LETTERS TO THE EDITOR Pari·etals &\ 'f;·~ ltlttt!llE -----'----., CO·,_~'#& Attack \<>-:lL~ .. ~ --mnnrnr As a member of the Conunittee that drew up the original proposal for the new constitution, it is understandable that Mr. Rubin might be disappointed that some of the committee's pet proposals failed to pass the Student Council by almost unanimous vote. This last outburst on Mr. R11bin's ,part only adcls to the already strong odor of sour grapes. the important exception of President Martin.\ We take exception to .this statement. We feel that Mr. Pearson is doing an excellent job. We further suggest that if you had conducted a more comprehensive survey, you would have found others who share our opinion. Assistant to the Dean of · · Students Richard Lucas Ntcr~ Pub!Jshed Tuesday a.pd Friday dur- ing the school year by the Student Body of UnJon College, Schenectady, N, Y, NatiOnal Advert1s1ng Repre- sentatJve: National Educat1onal Advert1smg Serv1ce, Inc., College Publishers Representatl\e, 360 Lexington Avenue. N, Y. C. Editorial Ofhce, Old Gym. Union College, Pubhcat1on Office, White· hurst Pnntmg & Binding Co., Inc., 416-418 Fifth Ave., Troy. 235-4450. Entered in the S~henectady Post• Office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20~ a copy; $6 a year dehvered anywhere in the United States. SENIOR BOARD D. Peter Drotman ................................................... Editor-in-Chief Richard Lewis ..................................................... Business Manager William Ouzer ...................................................... Managing Editor Allen Gartner ............................................................. News Editor Paul Andrews ....................................................... Facsimile Editor Henry Fein ................................................................ Sports Editor Alan Klein ....................................................... Contributing Editor Richard Kramer .............................................. Photography Editor JUNIOR BOARD Lawrence S. Friedman .......................................... Paranoia Editor Michael Swirsky ............................... National Advertising Manager Jerry Levine ......................................... Local Advertising Manager :Jeff Birn ....................................................... Subscription Manager Ed Jerome ..................................................... Distribution Manager Lloyd Birns ......................................... Ass't Subscription Manager Bruce Husten ..................................................... Consulting Editor Andrew Crisses ....................................... Assistant Features Editor STAFFS News-Mike Crowley, Carl Dietz, Harris Ginsberg, Ken Golden, Steve Heller, Steve Levy, Alan Mell, Joe Schwartz, Randy Sutter, Ken Wyse, Neil Kramer FACSIMILE-Paul Markes, Steven A. Cole, tenor, Danny Schocket, Lance Falducwitz, Bill Shapiro, Raymond Nobel Krise, William Dougherty, Phil Robinson Sports-Gary Prevost, Michael Reger, Stu Moss, Paul Forbes, Che Blitzman, Bill Holleran Photography-D. Beach Barrett, Jim Stewart, Jody Saslow, Mark Boylan, George Kaplan, David Zapata, Mark Lichtenstein. The following is a reprint of the editorial which appeared in yesterday's extra edition. On Responsibility In an effort not to be entirely redundent and predictable, Concordiensis wishes to praise the Board of Trustees and President Martin for their very ra tiona! decisions Wednesday, thank Messrs. Gordon, Manker and Stillman for their patience and willingness to go to great effort to serve the cause of responsible ~tudent pov:er and commend the entire student body for 1ts collective responsibility in facing the issues at hand. . . We view the action of the Trustees and Pres1dent Martm on two levels: in respect to the responsibility placed on the student~ by t~e Trustees and that placed in the Trustees by the students. It 1s, qmte obviously, up to the students to make any system of living-unit-determined parietals work to the satisfaction of all the Community's members. If the system does not work (and the only way we can possibly conceive of this happening is for repea~ed irresponsible acts to occur), a highly valued and saught after pnze will most assuredly become an albatross about the neck of the student body. Very simply, it is our duty to uphold the rules we set for ourselves. Judging from the willingness of the . Trustees to listen open-mindedly to the findings and suggestiOns of th~ stu~e~t representatives to their meeting and from the results obtamed, 1t ts manifest that the most effective and efficient manner in which to precipitate change is to demonstrate clearly the need for change an~ to present meaningful and well thought out proposals. Indeed, thts method takes a great deal more patience and is lacking. in the glamour , publicity and sense of martyrdor_n ~hat occupymg the Administration Building might have; but 1t 1s the method for achieving goals that are most conducive to the type of atmosphere here deemed desirable by the academic community. We view yesterday's action a step forward in the ~eld of student-faculty- administration relations. Union College certamly has a long way to go before all of the bad institutions ~re done aw.ay with and replaced by better ones. Even t~e lo~gest JOUrney be~ms with a single step, and we suggest a few d1rect1ons that responsible student leadership might help to steer their ensueing efforts: abolition of the maintenance system, updating of fraternities, possible institution of an honor code, recruitment of meaningful numbers of Black students, careful investigation of grading systems, a very careful look into the position of the Dean of Center (as opposed to Dean of Faculty) and establishing a ~onsistent and permanent housing policy. Most ?f ti:e areas_ ment10ned ~ere. a~e presently dealt with in terms of s1tuatwn ethics and we thmk 1t IS time to establish a dialogue concerning these matters and eventually to set down some consistent policy. FUN WORKING IN EUROPE GUARANTEED JOBS ABROAD! Get paid, travel, meet people, SUMMER and YEAR ROUND. 20 countries, 9 paying job cate· gories offered. For FREE cultural program literature including details and applications, write: \ISTC admissions, 866 United Nations Plaza, New York, N.Y. A Non-Profit Student Mem- bership Organization. To the Editor: ·In last Tuesday's announced yesterday in a 1 • memorandum that the new proposal regarding self-determination of visiting hours will not become • · effective until Monday at the earliest. Concol'die11sis Mr. . Rubin took issue with the fact that he felt last M:onday's Student Council meeting was adjourned prematurely. What Mr. Rubin failed t0 point out was the fact that, after the motion for adjournment had been made, Mr. Spencer was recognized and althou£h out of order presented his motion as if there were no other motions on the floot. Consequently, the Student Council had an opportunity to hear Mr. Spencer's motion before a vote was taken on whether or ·not to adjourn. The vote for adjournment was 13-4. Sincerely, Craig J. Baumer The Brothers ·Of the Sigma Phi Editor's Note: Jonathan Pearson HI, '42 is an alumnus trustee of Sigma Phi Society. Lucas said that six or seven living units will be / unable to hold their meetings Defense · before Sunday evening due to ''pledge night\ and the . number of students who will . be away for the weekend. The new proposal states that the new procedures become effective only when the Dean of Students has I would like,to suggest to Mr. To 1he Editor: In your last issue afFacsimile (January 17, 1969), you stated that \none of the many students and faculty with whom we have raised the question of admissions have been willing to express confidence in Mr. Pearson, with The Mountbanks will present two nne-act plays, Fricch's The Firebugs, and Shaw's The Man of :Destiny. Jan. 30, 31 and Feb. 1 at 8: 30 in N ott Memorial Theatre. Tickets, free to Union men and 75 cents for dates, may be reserved at the box office or by calling 346-4098. ·received written reports from. 1 • Rub in that if he choses to editorialize about Student Council procedures in the future, he present all the facts relaven t to the point of discussio11. ' J) ec 1 s /~o lA ''.S I ])e-c/s. . lo,... \'S I ,. all living units. Seniors-Please order your graduation announcements at the Student Activities Office. $ f ) ' .. J ~ / l . \ .I l J ~ r 5 'i 1! I ,, I:.-. ( some decisions are ralativelr unimportant. Where rou put your enuineerinu. talent to work is not. As you contemplate one of the most important decisions of your life, we invite you to consider a career at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft. Here, you will find wide-<Jpen opportunities for professional growth with a company that enjoys an enviable record of stability in the dynamic atmosphere of aerospace technology. We select our engineers and scientists carefully. Motivate them well. Give them the equipment and facilities only a leader can provide. Offer them company-paid, graduate-education opportunities. Encourage them to push into fields that have not been explored before. Keep them reaching for a little bit mor:e responsibility than they can manage. Reward them well when they do manage it. And your decision is made easier, thanks to the wide range of talents required. Your degree can be a B.S., M.S., or Ph.D. in: MECHANICAL • AERONAUTICAL • ELECTRICAL • CHEMICAL • CIVIL • MARINE • INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING • PHYSICS • CHEMISTRY • METALLURGY • MATERIALS SCIENCE • CERAMICS • MATH-EMATICS • STATISTICS • COMPUTER SCIENCE • ENGINEERING SCIENCE • ENGINEERING MECHANICS. Consult your college placement officer-or write Mr. William L. Stoner, Engineering Department, Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, East Hartford, Connecticut 06108. Pratt & Whitney Rircraft EAST HARTFORD AND MIDDLETOWN, CONNECTICUT WEST PALM BEACH, FLORIDA u . DIVISION OF UNITED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION R An Equ11 Opporlunlty EmrMyer I a • JANUAR

Dean of· Lucas in a • the aew ding visiting become • at the six or will be r meetings ing due to and the who will states when has from your ements at Office. ider a and nities. a n be a • I ' ,P I a t I '\' \ • • JANUARY 24, 1969 CONCORDIENSIS PAGE 3 ----- ------------------------------~------~--~------------------------------------------------------------------------ Eng.ineering and Science at IBM ''You're treated like a p,rofessional right from th·e start:' \The attitude here is, if you're good enough to be hired, you're good enough to be turned loose on a project,\ says Don Feistamel. Don earned a B.S.E.E. in 1965. Today, he's an Associate Engineer in systems design and evalua- tion at IBM. Most of his work consists of determin- ing modifications needed to make complex data processing systems fi,t the specialized requirements of IBM customers. Depending on the size of the project, Don works individually or in a small team. He's now working with three other engineers on part of an air traffic control system that will process radar information by computer. Says Don: \There are only general guide- lines. The assignment is simply to come up with the optimum system.\ Set your own pace Recently he wrote a simulation program that enables an IBM computer to predict the per- formance of a data processing system that will track satellites. He handled that project him- self. \Nobody stands over my shoulder,\ Don says. \I pretty much set my own pace.\ Don's informal working environment is typi- cal of Engineering and Science at IBM. No matter how large the project, we break it down into units small enough to be handled by one person or a few people. Don sees a lot of possibilities for the future. He says, \My job requires that I keep up to date with all the latest IBM equipment and systems programs. With that broad an outlook, I can move into almost any technical area at IBM-development, manufacturing, product test, space and defense projects, programming or marketing.\ Visit your placement office Sign up at your place· ment office for an interview with IBM. ON CAMPUS FEB. 5,6 An Equal Opportunity Employer

JANUARY 24, 1969 CON CORDI ENS IS PAGE 4 • .t II .' ·.: ~ '-· 01 RECTIONS: If you agree, please post conspicuously. This page arranged for and layed out by the ''In This World or not at all\ Committee. \ '' JANUA T I h: though \hapf cancer grading and I s existing realize · · student: realize gradin; evalu~ perforrr Willi . I ;\' The grad in adminis in ten de grade g the so student design odds w than student judgme: student early a1 every s matter requir honon qualifi pro spec pass-fai told th five set to grad difficul option them . Registr; memor: magne • cumul: compu1 grade instruc1 & daydn pass-fai academ .• \I As pass-fai attemJ • implica am rer observ~ , examin unders1 has r unders1 .... shall fi adjunc1 short perpetl well d Union to pr< happin to it. better the t stu den I p all owe< course! year or enable course! I I J 20 . - Do Le A 1 Nl

.t ------------~-~-Mrill:vu:m~~~------- -·--. JANUARY.24, 1969. CONCOHDIENSIS PAGE5 f·aculty Forum Tense Pa.ss-Fail L--~-----~- By MICHAEL SHIN AGEL ----1 I have had some second thoughts since the stud~n t ''happening'' last spn_ng concerning the twelve-pomt grading ·system. I thought then, and I still think now, that the existing system needs revision. I realize that grades make some · - students anxious, but 1 also realize that some form .of grading is central to the evaluation of .students' performance in course wmk. Will Pass-Fail Ease Pressure? The pass-fail system of grading proposed by the administration. is, I am sure, intended to mitigate the kind of grade grubbing that is s~ often, the source ·of comj1lamt by students at Union. But the design of the system seems at odds with the intention. Rather than .alleviate pressme on students, the system will, in my judgment, compo1:1nd it; for students will have to decide as early as the freshman year, and every seme~ter after that, such matters as graduate school requiremen~s, departmental honors, Phi Beta Kappa qualificati:on.s, employment prospects in • the light of the pass-fail options. Since we are told that rotlghly three out of five seniors go on immediately to graduate schools alone, it ~s difficult to see how the pass-fail · option will ease the pressures on , ' them. The fact that the ·' ,• Registrar's Office will maintain a memory bank of all grades on magnetic tape, and that • cumulative indexes will be computed on the basis of letter grades assigned by the instructors, suggest that the • daydream prospect of the pass-fail will really prove an academic nightmare. \Being Well Deceived\ As I read the proposed pass-fail grading system and attempt to understand its • implications for the students, I am reminded of Swift's satiric observation that ''if we take an , examination of what is generally understood by happiness, as it has respect either to the understanding or the senses, we shall find a1l its properties and adjuncts will herd under this short definition, that it is a perpetual possession of being well deceived.\ If students at Union require tllis sort of system to promote and insure their happiness, then they are entitled to it. But I believe there is a better way, one that will serve the best interests of both students and faculty. I propose that students be allowed to chocrse' two or three courses outside their major each year on a pass-fail basis. 'This will enable all students to register for courses they want to take for DARI .. TREET RESTAURANT YOUR CHOICE CHAR-BROIL STEAK VEAL CUTLET CHICKEN ••• $ 1.65 2049 Van Vranken Ave. FR 7-4261 Down to Louis', let us go, Let the lager freely flow. their education but in which they feel at a disadvantage in competing for a l~t~e.r grad.e. This pass-fail flexibility will enable all students 'to opt regularly for courses outside their major, includingCo:mp Ed courses, without having to worry a.bout graduate school admissions or hcmors or employment. The system will be uniform and fair and flexible from the point of view of students. Proposes New System I further propose that a nine-point grading system be adopted so that the faculty can evaluate student performance in courses more acc1:1rately and Shinagel fairly. The nine-point scale is submitted as a compr01::r!ise from the original twelve-point system I proposed last spring. I can see that an A is an A and aD is aD, and no pluses or minuses are necessary. But in the B and C categories, where most of the grades tend to cluster, a teacher must have the means to distinguish more clearly among students. As every teacher knows, the difference between a B plus student and a B minus student is significant, and it is dishonest to pretend that a B grade is a fair measure for both. The same applies to the C category. With the greater differentiation possible by the nine-point scale the cumulative index, Dean's List, and good standing can be redefined in a more meaningful way. But most important, students will be graded more accurately and thereby be rewarded more justly for their efforts. \Done With Visionary Schemes\ I submit this grading proposal as a final attempt to reconcile as best I can the needs of the students for greater latitude in choosing courses without always worrying about grades and the needs of faculty to evaluate the perfonnance of students in courses accurately and fairly. I promise not to impose on this community again in this matter of grades. Having submitted this proposal, I am, like Lemuel Gulliver, \now done with all such visionary Schemes for ever.\ A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 Stare and Erie Blvd. NQW IN OUR 74th YEAR For reservations phone FR 4-8917 There will be a Freshman Class MeeUng next Tuesday, January 28,.:a.t7:30 in SS016. The :Chemistry Department will present a Senior-Faculty Seminar next Tuesday at '11:30 a.m. in Butterfield H:all. Dr. Jerry A. Hirsch of Seton Hall University vtill speak on \Calculation Methods for Conformational Analysis of Organic Systems.\ All interested persons are invited. President Martin or some other administrative officer will be present at an open forum to discuss campus and non-campus issues on the second and f0urth Tuesdays of each month. The sessions will begin at 7 p_m. and will he held in 0 ld Chapel uhless experience indicates the need for a change. The first meeting will be on January 28 and the topic with which discussion \'m open with the pass-fail option now before the Faculty a.nd students for, consideration. Pass-Fail Suggestion Fails To Pass By STEVE LEVY The Faculty Council took no action on the administration's pass-fail proposal in its Tuesday meeting, and it will not until the proposal has been discussed by students. Professor William Bristol said the Council had discussed the proposal from the start with the idea that no action would be taken until students were consulted. Bristol commented that from reports of the division chairmen it is his obsewation tha 1 \there seems to be sentiment in the faculty in favor of some sort of pass-fail system.\ However, Bristol added it would not have to take the same form as the present proposal. Approve Black History In other action the council approved a new course to be offered next year in Negro history entitled \The Negro in ------------ America: From Slave Power to Skid:more Skidmore college has approved new parietal rules. Effective ''as soon as arrangements have been completed,\ the system will be on a trial basis to be reviewed in the spring. Men will now be allowed in girls' rooms from 7:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m. Fridays; 1:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m. Saturdays; and 1:00 p_m. to 7:00p.m. Sundays. It was noted that there will be special \security provisions,\ including the requirement that all men must sign in and out and must be accompanied at all times by their hostesses. Black Power.\ The course will deal with the role of Black Americans in the social and cultural development of the United States. Professor David Potts will teach the course. The council also modified the Comprehensive Education requirement for 5-year students seeking degrees from both centers and for pre-med students with majors in Center I. For 5-year students the requirements are two freshman year course, a two term Junior Project course, and a \Senior Disputed Questions\ course. •· 1 For pre-meds in Center I Comprehensive Education requirements include two freshman year courses, one A 3·dimensional I untverse on a 2·dimensional surface. option (in either center), the Junior Projects course, and the \Senior Disputed Questions\ course. New Legislation Established The Com p r e h·e n s i v e Education Board was delegated the authority to approve small group projects and individual study program to meet the Junior Projects reqt:1irement for Comp. Ed. credit. Legislation was approved covering the extension of the five year two-degree programs to include combinations of any two majors. To obtain two degrees a student will take five years of formal study and must satisfy all requirements for both majors in a program of study of not less than 45 courses. There will be an 0 PEN HOUSE of Center I For Students and faculty Wed., Jan. 29th at 3:30 - 5:00 P.M. in Faculty Lounge of Humanities Bldg. Typical of the in·depth engineenng you'l!l do at Norden. alr 1 space craft, land craft and under- water vessels. It's a challenging concept. And only one of the numerous breakthroughs that Norden is pioneering. Our prob- lem-solving teams are constantly ex- ploring new ideas, tack! ing them from every aspect, and bringing new tech- nological dimensions into being. It's 1his kind of teamwork that gives us the broadest capabilities possible- and gives our engineers the most diverse interchange of ideas and approaches-in the areas of pilot dis- plays, airborne radar systems, ground support equipment, optical devices and computer technology. just 41 miles from the heart of New York City ... we offer a corporate- financed Gradua1e Education Pro- gram .•• and we have openings: In Research, Development and Manu- facturing. 1969 graduate EE's and ME's are lnvHed to contact their Placement Directors to arrange an on-campus interview. Or forward resumes to: Mr.J. E. Fitzgerald, Helen Street, Norwalk, Connecticut 06852. An EquaiOpportunityEmployer(m/f). You're looking at Contact Analog, Nordell's Innovative display system that packages the world in a mere 1f2 cul>ic foot. Height, width, depth and data projection. capabilities are translated instantly into easily assim- ilated pictor.ial form. And the appli- cations are virtually limitless- for lf you're inte.rested in new dimen· slons in engineering creativlty...:.and oareer opportunity-then get with 1heNorden team. We've a great loca- tion in Fairfield County, Connecticut,. United Norden om••oNo• • ft ~Hera

FACULTY FORUM PAGES Concordy Sports LETTERS PAGE 2 PAGE6 CONCORDIENSIS Hoopsters Fall Short, 71-68 Hy JAY BLITZMAN Wednesday night's 71-68 loss to Amherst in the Fieldhouse saw a solid team performance go unrewarded. Following a setback to previously winless Williams in the squad's preceding outing, the Garnet avoided any type of psyc]]l)]ogio.: :.1l letdown against the traditionally powerful Lord Jeffs, who entered the encounter with a 6-3 slate. half and tallied 14 for l he period. In the first half the Lord Jeffs were 16-33 from the field, pulling down 20 rebounds, the majority of which were offensive. The Garnet were 15-33 from the floor, a·lso pulling down twenty rcbotJ.nds. The Garnet had played their highly regarded adversaries to a standstill in every category, including turnovers. Reversal of Play The second half saw a reversal of the pattern of play which had predominated in the first half. The Garnet defense became more tenacious, and took away the percentage shot, and the front court kept Auten off of the offensive board; he picked up only two points in the second half. Forced outside, the Lord Jeffs found the necessary long range marksmanship from Evans, who hit for 10 of his 12 points iN the half and Tom Kelly. Amherst was persistent in its use of the press ai~d some erratic play offensively on the part of Union enabled Amherst to move to the largest spread of the game, 55-50, at the IQ:OOmark. l'\olh)wing a spl'dal'ular Neidel rebound and pitch, Barry Katzman lead a fasthrcak which culminated in a Mumford Layup and a 56-55 lead with 7:11 to go. Slim Jeff Lead With 3:31 left Amherst led, 63-60. Katzman then made what could have been a game turning play, on a left handed reverse layup. A quick jumper by Evans, and an offensive foul charged to Getman negated this momentary surge of momentum. Katzman brought the hosts to wi:thin :one wit·h an eight footer off the baseline from behind the basket. The count was 65-64 'V\'ith 40 seconds left. Hart then calmly hit a crucial one and o11c to move the margin to three. Getman picked up a .loose ball with eleven seconds left and banged home a jumper. AgaiN with the pressure om, Bollinger hit a one-on-one to end the Garnet's hopes. Following another Gamet basket by Getman, Evans made a one-on-one at the buzzer. Lost on Shooting The Dutchmen destroyed Amherst off the boards in the second half, 22-10, but lost on 14-30 shooting (46 per ce1~t) for the sianza. Amherst was 59 per cent from the floor in ;the half. Amherst opened the contest with Phil Hart on the high post, with Vandy Bollinger and Dave Auten flashing in out of low post positions along the baseline. Pete Evans and Tom Kelley moved the ball quite effectively with a sharp passing attack which featured penetration of the Garnet man-to-man for the best shot. Auten collected 1 7 points in the first half as a result of good feeds and aggressive offensive rebounding. Coach Schmidt's starting five continued their pattern of trying to isolate Bill Neidel off picks on the baseline for his deft jumpers. '72 Matmen Stand at 2-l Amherst's ability to contain Neidel in the second half, when he scored only six points, coupled with an overall shooting superiority resulted in victory. Bill Boemkc had a fine night, with 19 points .and 14 rebounds. No Dominance The first half saw neither club establish any degree of dominance. Amherst, confining the ma,jority of its shooting to inside, moved to a 37-36 halftime lead, capitalizing on effective offensive rebounding. The Garnet's Warren Mumford and Jim Gettman played strong games in the first half; Gettman picking up eight points and several assists, and Mumford performing his primary role of getting the ball to Neidcl, who hit his first three shots of the By STU MOSS Despite injuries and the fact that many grapplers are wrestling in a class above their actual weight, Union College's freshman wrestlers stand with a respectable 2-1 team record. In the squad's last match, the matmen sustained their first loss, as the R.P.l. yearlings won, 25-13. Against R.P.l., the Garnet were hurt by two forfeits, in the 152 and 167 lb. classes. Harvey Bilick at 137 looked impressive in winning a decision as did Len Solomon in the 130 lb. class. Jay Keller gained the team's only pin of the afternoon when he nailed his heavyweight opponent at Frosh Swim Opener Sat. By BILL HOLLERAN The hopes of the freshman swim team remain clouded, as the squad prepares to open against Hobart's frosh, tomorrow at 3 P.M. in Geneva. An injury and a lack of depth combine to make Coach Robert Benson less than optimistic about his team's chances for another undefeated season. The Garnet yearlings this year are again blessed with an abundance of talent, but the small size of the team raises the question of whether the aquamen will have enough strength an_d depth to go \all the way\. The outstanding merman on the squad IS Rich Gross, a talented flyer, described by Coach Benson as ''real good, I expect a lot from him.\ H?wever, Gross dislocated ~is shoulder in a recent practice, and his loss for several meets will severely jeopardize the team's chances. Benson said that 'The loss of Gross has severely hurt our chances, because we are now faced with the potential loss of fifteen points in his event. You could say that we arc going into the Hobart meet with a fifteen point deficit.\ Yearling Star The other top swimmers on the Garnet yearlings arc Tom Hough, a distance frec-styler, described by Benson as \best in the 200 and 400,\ Gary Needell, an outstand1ng backsttoker iri the medley relay, and Vince Sinatra. a versatile swimmer who Benson lauds as \the best brcaststroker I've seen.\ Rounding out the eleven-man squad arc Henry Casten, a freestyle sprinter in the 50 and 100-yard events; Mark Coven, the second backstroker; Duncan Hannah. the second breaststroker, from whom Benson expe~ts '\good things\ in the future; and Jeff Silverman, a diver with '\good potential,\ according to Benson. Dick Stienwurtzcl, a utility man, Tom Klinkow and Mike Rich. new additions to the team since January, give the yearling merman some depth. at HAYSTACK It's $3./Day Students! Monday-Friday PI ease bring Student I.D. 2:40 of the second period. Union's only other points came when Garry Morris wrestled his opponent to a draw in the 177 lb. class. Coleman Encouraged Coach Ron Coleman, even though his squad lost, was not disappointed with their showing. He pointed out that Sun Bin Lee, although weighing only 117 lbs. competes in the 123 lb. class, Solomon at 123 lbs. wrestles at 130 and the 130 lb. Blick goes in the 137lb. class. In addition, Winston Burke at 160 has only been working out with the team for a week and Bill Simson and Steve Rothman are both out with injuries. However, help should come when Pete Keller and Larry Blum start working out with the squad this week. The next dual match will be Saturday afternoon against the Hobart freshman away. The squad will then battle the Colgate frosh Tuesday afternoon at 3:00 in the Alumni Gym. GOLF All those interested in playing on the varsity Golf team this spring are requested to meet with Coach Leonard in the Fie! dhouse at 5:00 p.m. Monday, January 27. VIP LOUNGE ANNOUNCES SOUR HOUR WEONESDAYS & FRIDAYS 4-6 BEHIND LADDS COLLEGE ST.REET Frosh Defeated Record at 5-2 By HANK LEVINE The Garnet freshmen were defeated by a strong squad from Amherst Wednesday night, bringing their record to five wins and two defeats. Union opened the game with a full court press to try and combat Amherst's great height advantage. In the early going, the Dutchmen couldn't penetrate inside, but Jim Tedisco and Howie DeLuca kept hitting from the outside to keep Union in the game. With three minutes remaining in the first half, Union started to run. The Garnet tallied on a few key steals and led 38-32 with two minutes to go. Amherst cant rolled the boards for the remainder of the stanza .and the score stood at 40-40 as the first half ended. Was Cold Shooting The second half a different ball game. The Garnet shooting, except for Howie DeLuca, was ice cold. Amherst started to oenetrate the inside and dominate the boards. Amherst took a 68-63 lead with seven minutes to paly and went into a stall offense, controlling the ball for lengthy periods at a time. To combat this. Union went back into a full court press, but this fell short of the mark, as the Lord Jeffs came out the victors by a score of 84-69. Now\s The Time To MARRY ME D.t\ t i <111d J ui •· h\. •· d ·n•· tt. JI,··.~ Ah ,,:t. Y··lt. Trtckv Oil ku· HU\ I.•>'..Jf Wl·d.J1t1~: R1ng ott \im~fllt' (Jr,·~!·,lf1 .:x S·•l ..... lt''.\••lt·r~. lnh .1 .t. St. . SPf'Oing t'n1un fur \ l!;t'Iil·r~ttl\JnS. Fin~ Food and Legal Bevtlrages JANUARY 24, 1969 Union's Bill Boehmke takes rebound away from Amherst's Vandy Bollinger as Bill Neidellooks on. Photo by George Kaplan. Hoopsters Face Mariners Bounds Are The Key By HENRY FEIN The Garnet hoopsters face a tough road opponent tonight as they travel to Long Island to face Kings Point. The Mariners will field basically the same team that literally ran over the Garnet in the Fieldhouse last year, 82-63. weak teams, defeating Stony Brook (57-50) and the Coast a Guard Academy (91-63), before dropping a 104-86 decision to Wagner. In the Central Buck County Classic , the hoopsters fell to Delaware Valley (92-77) before besting Drexel (84-78). As with the 1968 edition, the Mariners are an aggressive, fast-breaking team that relies on speed and rebounding to score. A good team off both boards, the Mariners will be very tough unless the G-arnet hoopsters can pull down a good number of \ rebounds. Another factor working against the Garnet will be playing on the road: although the Dutchmen have won seventy Four of the five Kings Point starters are upperclassmen. 6-3 Senior captain Ed Hoffman, ECAC Division III Sophomore-of-the-Year in 1967, is averaging 19.2 points per game from his forward spot. At center, 6-6 John Miller is ave raging 15.0 and is the Mariners' leading rebounder. 6-5 Junior Ed Wayras and 5-9 Soph Chris Brennan play the backcourt. The Mariners sport a 3-5 record against largely Division II competition, having dropped their last three ballgames, all against major-college foes. The Kings Point hoopsters have lost to Sacred Heart (99-94), Hofstra (79-71 ), and Boston University (99-73) since Christmas. per cent of their contests in the l.' ... Fieldhouse over the last four t· seasons, they have not once beaten a str()ng opponent on his home court. ; The Mariners may .not be •' ' particularly sharp, having played The Mariners opened their season with two victories over their last game two weeks ago. Tonight's game was originally scheduled for January 15, but ~. the Kings Point cadets marched ! in Monday's Innaugural Parade, 1 and canceled all games last week ~\' I to prepare for that event. l ARE YOU SEEKING A BUSINESS CAREER? Then, Bell Telephone Laboratories is interested in talking to you about exciting opportunies in such Then, Bell Telephone Laboratories is .interested in talking to you about exciting opportunHies in such diverse activities as Personnel, Accounting, Public Relations andPublications, and Facilities Operations. If you have a good scholastic record and want a ·demanding but rewarding administrative position with one of the lar.gest Research & Development Organiz· ations in the world. SEE HARRY GRAHAM who wi II vi sit your Campus with the Bell System on Wednesday, January 29, 1969 Positions available in New Jersey ancl Illinois. BELL TELEP:HONE LABORATORIES Research & D.evelopment Unit·of the Bel.! System An Equal Opportunity Employer (M/F) I .: Pe N l) fur th:a 2) pri' otl 3) car tht: 4) anc the 5) pri bel Co pal 6) spe wh 1110 cle. for Th bet fri{ I. est; vot of bal II. be or sys est: of hot me fift rep po~ Ofi Ill as : imt IV. the cor COJ C011 it tl by Th( altf of 1 v. bo( tim By BA In adc decision 1 Harold C. two stu: members Student J chairman meeting in The th meeting, Stillman, ( areas of s1 were the f petition si! The fo

Stony he Coast t before to Buck hoopsters (92-77) the relies on to score. boards, 1 tough psters can of working will he although seventy in the last four l: once on his ' .not be ' • played ' ago. originally '\, 15' but marched \'. ' Parade, :·: I last week !!' ' 1 I I I .: . I •I in ! in' ~ ic s. a th 2• HA Causa Persa Parole Assai\ R.EAD ALL ABOUT 'IT UNITS TO SET PARIETALS MARTIN APPROVES ACC PLAN T ex t o f Reg ·u I a t i o n s - PREFACE l) All facilities and enterprises at Union College relate to its funct•ions as an academic institution and must be conside1;ed in that light. 2) All persons in the .community have rights to reasonable privacy and must, in their activities, respect those rights for othet·s. 3) Whenever women guests are .escorted into any living units on campus,. students must be aware that they are guests and treat them as such. 4) Anyone whose actions affront a guest shows irresponsibility and places himself in position to incur disciplinary penalty and the entire system of student-determined parietals in jeopardy. 5) Union College is ;Jart of a larget social community. When private actions offend public mores and established patterns of behavior, they cause repercussions on the entire College Community and endanger the future of student-determined parietals. 6) Students are encouraged to arrange well in advance of any special occasions for private accommodation for women visitors, when they are expected to stay overnight, in(a) nearby hotels o:r motels (b) North College (c) living units which have been cleared for weekend guests. Every student's actions have implications for all students and for the reputation of the College. We do not live in isolation. Those who achieve, and help others achieve, a good balance between public responsibility and individual privacy are the best friends of self-government. UNION COLLEGE GUIDELINES ON PARIETAL HOURS I. Each Jiving unit may by a 3/4 vote of the total membership establish a new system of hours for parietal privileges. If a 3/4 vote can not be obtained for a new system, the system existing as of 11/14/68 will remain in effect. All votes will be by secret ballot. · II. A. At the request of any living unit member, a meeting will be convened within two (2) days by either the Resident Adviser or Fraternity President to discuss modification of the existing system. Any proposed change which increases the hours of an established system will require a 3/4 vote of the total membership of the living unit. Any proposed change which decreases the hours of an existing system will require a simple majority of all members of the living unit. B. All changes adopted will be in effect for a minimum of fifteen ( 15) days. It shall be the duty of the elected student representative of the living unit to keep current regulations posted in a conspicuous place and to notify the Dean of Students' Office as well as the Secretary of the Student Government. Ill. Violations of any established rules or election procedures, as specified in I and II above, by individuals or groups must be immediately referred to the suitable Judicial Body. IV. Any student, faculty member, m· administrative officer of the College may register a complaint about the general social conduct of a living unit with the Dean of Students or the Liason Committee. The Dean or the Committee wiJI deliver the complaint to the appropriate Judicial Eody, which will investigate it to determine: I) Whether the allegations are ture, and 2) Whether they are related to the parietal hours established by the living unit. The Judicial Body may, if its findings so warrant, require alteration of parietal hours and/or suspend some or all privileges of the unit. V. The All College Council or the equivalent highest legislative body of the college may review the operation of this system .from time to time and retains the right to amend the same. Meeting Summarized By BART HARRINGTON, JR. In addition to delegating the decision on parietals to President Harold C. Martin, the Trustees added two students as voting adjunct members to their Committee on Student Affairs, and elected a new chairman and vice-chairman at a meeting in New York City, yesterday. The three students present at the meeting, Manker, Gordon and Stillman, called for discussion on four areas of student concern. These areas were the four demands outlined in the petition signed by 886 students. The four representatives appeared before the Student Life Committee for three quarters of an hour before going to meet with the entire Board. They explained that although they did not support the petition they did feel obligated to raise the four questions. The four demands, which the representatives tenned .. areas of student concern\ were; Parietal rules, maintenance, co-education, and Student Representation on the Board of Trustees. Since the Board has no jurisdiction over the maintenance program and co-education is presently under study no action was taken in these at:eas. Continued on page 2 • Parietals to begin when all living units report vote • Fortenbaugh Elected new Board Chairman • Students seated on Trustee Committee • System to be reviewed Spring Term Founded at Union College 1877 CONCOR()IENS!S EXTRA SCHENECTADY, N.Y., JANUARY 24, 1969 PHICE TWENTY CENTS Trustees Delegate Decision to President In a Ion~-a\'\ ai ted decit->ion, Pn•t->iumt Hmold C. Martin yest<~rday ap tJrov<~d tlw Ali-Colleg<' Council's unit-rule parietal proposal :-;ubject to four contingencies. Tlw aetion took place at 4:29 p.m. whrn :\lartin notified his secr!'lary 'liss Lillian Appkgarlh that ~he might n'll'mw hi~ prepared slal<'rrwnt on tlw subject. (The compl<·tc· text of that stal<'m<'llt app<~ars f'!sP.w h<~rr~ in t hi:-l issue). N<'VI rulcs will go into eff<·ct as soon as all living unit:; supply the D<'an of .'\tudcnts with '\written rcporb ... that tlw organizational plan pr<'scrib<·rl Ly the proposal has bt~t:'n fulfilil'd.\\ Also, all pari(~ tal hour~ must k specified in th~ r<'port::;. Rumor~ saying Martin \-\-ould make tlw d<'eir;ion himself proved to lw true. lie had stated hi' \\ould let thl' trm;h't's have the final juclg(·mrn t, but IH:l\ ing rreonsidl'red, th<' Pn·~id('tl t abkcd if he might have the dt~cision, and tlw trustees agrred. JIM STILLMAN Responsiveness and responsibility, it is with these two themes that the three of us arc extremely pleased with the decisions today by the Board of Trustees and President Martin regarding parictals and one other issue which it is our pleasure to announce. At our suggestion the trustees voted to make the President and Vice-President of the Student Body adjunct members of the Trustees Committee on Student RUSTY MANKER NEAL GORDON Student leaders React Affairs with full voting priviliges. In this way, a meaningful dialogue can be better maintained between the Trustees and tl1e Student Body. We would like to emphasize that when presenting the petition of the Commit tee For a Student Voice we did not mention that the four isSliCS on the petition were demands, rather they were areas in which Union Students were showing great concern. Our dealings with the Trustees in no way involved threats or demands and their decision was not reached through intimidation. We have felt all along and continue to feel that the Trustees of Union College have an active interest in the concerns of the student body and will listen attentively to any responsible requests for change. We also remind Continued on page 2

PAGE 2 Martin bids farewell to old Trustee image. On Responsibility In an effort not to be entirely redundent and predictable, Com:ordiensis wishes to praise the Board of Trustees and President Martin for their very rational decisions yesterday. thank Messrs. Gordon, Manker and Stillman for their patience and willingness to go to great effort to serve the cause of responsible student power and commend the entire student body for its collective responsibility in facing the issues at hand. We view the action of the Trustees and President Martin on two levels: in respect to the responsibility placed on the students by the Trustees and that placed in the Trustees by the students. It is, quite obviously, up to the students to make any system of living-unit-determined parietals work to the satisfaction of all the Community's members. If the system docs not work (and the only way we can possibly conceive of this happening is for repeated irresponsible acts to occur), a highly valued and saught after prize will most assuredly become an albatross about the neck of the student body. Very simply, it is our duty to uphold the rules we set for ourselves. Judging from the willingness of the Trustees to listen open-mindedly to the findings and suggestions of the student representatives to their meeting and from the results obtained, it is manifest that the most effective and efficient manner in which to precipitate change is to demonstrate clearly the need for change and to present meaningful and well thought out proposals. Indeed, this method takes a great deal more patience and is lacking in the glamour , publicity and sense of martyrdom that occupying the Administration Building might have; but it is the method for achieving goals that arc mo~t conducive to the type of atmosphere here deemed desirable by the academic community. We view yesterday's action a step forward in the field of student-faculty- administration relations. Union College certainly has a long way to go before all of the bad institutions arc done away with and replaced by better ones. Even the longest journey begins with a single step, and we suggest a few directions that responsible student leadership might help to steer their cnsucing efforts: abolition of the maintenance system. updating of fraternities. possible institution of an honor code, recruitment of meaningful numbers of Black students, careful investigation of grading system\, a very careful look into the position of the Dean of Center {as opposed to Dean of I acuity) and establishmg a consistent and permanent housing polic.:y. Most of the areas mentioned h~rc arc presently dealt with in terms of situation ethics and we think it is time to establish a dialogue concerning these matters and eventually to set down some consistent policy. Qlottror · Published Tuosda\ a,pd Fr1ddV dur- ing thf\- schnol \f\dr p., !ht> Sturlent Body of UnJc)nColl f'~e-. Sc-h€'ne>ctadv N.Y. Nattonal Adve-rtrs1ng ReprE\~ sentat1ve: N.atiDndl Educat Jona! AdvertiSing Ser·\ICe;>, Inc .. Co!Je~P PuhltshE>rs RPpresPntatL\f' 360 LP::~~:tngton A\ enuP. ~. Y. C. btrttsts Ed 11 onal <Hftc e. 0 !d G yrri. Unto! C,1JIE'\~e Publ1ratlon Office-. Whtte hurst Prtnttng &. Btndtng Co., Inc. 4!6-4!8 Ftfth A<·e .. Troy. 235-4450 EntE•red 1n the SLhenectady Pos Offtc• as Second Class Mall Matter Subscr~ptton 2(h a copy; $6 a v•a deltvf\red anywhe-re 1n the Unite< States. D. Peter Drotman .............................................. Editor-In-Chief Richard Lewis ................................................ Business Manager William Ouzcr. ................................................. Managing Editor Larry Friedman ....................................... Assistant Issue Editor Alan Klein .................................................. Contributing Editor •For three Generations.' Those Who Know Have been recommending - HERSHEL !\L\L'RICE B WALTER u3 UnifJn Graduates in Graubart Family'• 166JAYST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY CONCOHDIENSIS EXTRA MAINTENA..N<:E A LA MODE: Students 'enjoyed' an envigorating nuintenance period while the trustees debated the fate of the parietal hours yesterday afternoon. The maintenance system may well be the next Union tradition to fall to the responsible exercise of student competence. ru stees Continued ft'OI1.1 page 1 However, the Trustees appointed the President and Vice-President of the Stilllent Body adjunct members of the SH!dent Life Committee. This means that they wi:ll aNend and vote at all meetings of that co 1mrn i ttee. One of the basic reasons that the trustees were willing to affl)rd the stude11t body rcpresentatio.n on this committee was that they wcTe, acc0Pding to Rusty Manker, \impressed with our approach toward change.\ Neal Gordon told the Board, \We feel that the real basis for student power is the authority students have by virtue of their contpetence. The interaction among students, faculty and adtninistrators should be cot\s.idered not as a struggle for power but rather as a dialogNe of COHlpetcnce .\ Ref1ecting that spir.it Gmdon then made the proposal to allow student representation on the committee. The Trustees questioned the students about the ACC Parietal Rule Proposal for some time. Jim Stillman commented, \They seetned interested and l~ad some very good questions; their chief interests seemed to be decen tralizat.ion, unrestricted autonomy, and the motivation behind the proposal.\ Because the ' . JANUARY 24, 1969 lea· ·e rs Continued from page 1 We. also ·remind- the student body that our main argument fo.r unit'•' determined paneta·ls was that Union Students are responsible and should be aHowed to p·rove t h c i r HS ponsibility through Ill. self-governance in living uni·ts. We hope the Un,ion S.tt1dent B'ody w il!l . ttphold th c faith~ placed in them by the Trustees, President Mal'tin and Student Leaders and live in a responsible n~anner. 1'odays decisions are at great initiation for responsil~le s-tudcBt govern:men.L To approach areas of concern in a,; fashion consistent with procedures established by adherence to political techniques may at times be fn!lst.rati11g, is~ often tenibly time const:uning, yet is always the -most meaningftJl approach to issues directly affecting individLlals ofG any community. questioned the representatives, for so long a time 'Manker thought that they would n1a:ke the decision independently. However, he was pleased .~u find<: out that they had delegated the decision making power ,to the President, and that Dr. Martin had ratified th<' originalproposal' w i t h D 11 I y f o u r m i no r contingencies (see page one). Gmdon made it imminently , clear that tl1e Trustees were receptive to the representatives viewpoints LIKE TO POKE MOL IN ENGINEERING THEORIES? We'relo1>kia-~g for M.E.'s, E.E.'s, and I.E.'s who will come up with something better- like our automatically con- trolled circLJit that monitors the speed of machinery with 800 electr~>nic \pecks\ per second. All ki mlsof challenges are waiting for you in hydraulics, pneumatics, mechanics, electromechanics, thermody- namics, electronics. fluidics, automated production tech- niques, ins'trumentation and controls, manufacturiAg processes, and materials handling systems. ~;:: iiJP..#!P-''w.w,w~ ..... EAT0N VALE& TOWNE Eaton Yale & Towne manufactures and ~arkets 3,00() products for all kinds of businesses and industries. We're regularly developing new products and processes at 92 pia nts in 45 cities, 1 7 states, and 18 nations. Our rapid growth has created a wi.de variety of open- ings for engineers in research, product engineering, man- uta cturi ng engineering, and sales/service engineering. See us when we visit your campus on Friday, January 31. VOL 98, C:OU] Stu·d Panj Student a plan to before the The mo C onsti tut ic briefing m Advisers who will meet·ings 01 There w discussion February studemt bo on the 11 tl The fi constituHo: hands thi~ presented .f Monday. 1 printed in ( One-fou must be pP order to vo 'In other to form a draft a pa U: By The ass< Concord C by a fed( institute a teachers oJ Appalachia WHlian professor originated institute. T sponsorshii was one economics funded 1 Professions Thirty t the institut 30 to A $36,500 ir appropriate costs to Un take place. \Rural never get economic : pull themse gainful ern 'The aitn E high school economics expe rienceE \Ex peril high school southeaster that it economic 1 ag.e yo1 background \A uniq will be its Upward B entering its the econo1 experience 11 economics Bound stud ' \Having college l'ea• Bennett sai an opportu teaching disadvantag Will have innovation which will school stuc several year Faculty

24, 1969 nt body fo.r unit''' ' was that nsib le to p·rove ll through unHs. s.tttdent faith., Trustees, Student ons are a·t nsil~ le To in ali. with shed by 11g, is~ ming, ·ITIOSt to issues of 0 se ntat ives, 'Manker uld nutke cndently. .~u find<:: gate cl the ,to the r. Martin proposal' tnin:or one}. · ees were sentatives re g. \''A Causa ·Persa Parole • Assa:i'' iL-ayout I - By I Kramer Founded at Union College 1877 VOL 98,NO. 24 C:onncil Approves .Constitution; Sd . Tv· o· •• tu-. ents • o · o1ce , i eciston: Panel To Review P:ass-Fail Student Council last Night approved a plan to bring the new constitution before the student body for a vote. The motion stat-es ·that the Constitution Committee will hold a briefing 011 the proposal for Resident Advisers al'ld Fmrernity Presidents who will in turn hold Hv.ing unit meet·ings on February 9. There wilrl be a qtlestion-and-answer discussion program on WRUC on February 1 0 and a meeting of the studemt body to vote on the proposal on the 11 tiL The final copy of the Hew constitution will be in representatives' hands this Thursday and will be presented for final council approval on Monday. The proposal will then be printed in ConcOFdiensis on Feb. 7. One-fourth of the student body must be pPesent at the Convocation in order to vote on the new constitution. 'ln other action the council decided to form a committee to study and draft a pass-fail proposal which the council will then present to the Faculty- Council. A second committee was formed consisH ng; of the Freshman class representatives and the Freshman class president to draw up a proposal for Council .a-ction and presentation to the admini~tFation urging that third term freshmen' be permitted to have cars on campl!ls. Atte:mpts by Walter Spencer and Stuart Ru:bin to provide legislation for the incorporation of minority reports into the proposed constitution failed. The constitution will thus be presented to the students with only the choice of Yes or No. When Stu Rubin raised the point that ac.ctt rding to Robert's Rules of Order '~nly a one-third vote is needed to add minority reports, he was told that the council did not follow Robert's Rules of Order and the motkon ealling for the acceptance of minority reports which had passed by a one-th:ifd vote was considered defeated. In S10cial Stud-ies SCHENECTADY, N.Y., JANUARY 28, 1969 PRICE TWENTY CENTS Board Appropriates $53,000 To Aid Disadvantaged Students By PAUL F A.RNHA:M Union's Board of Trustees has approved the use of an addirienal $53,000 for tuition scholarships for twenty-five disadvantaged students if Project HOPE cannot be implemented. HOPE, a program designed. to ·i11crease the enrollment of disadvantaged black and white students at Union, R.P.L and Skidmore, is faltering due to lacl< of funds. Responses from several philanthropic foundations have not been favorable. Most of the $53,000 will be used for scholarships although part may be used to increase the tutorial budget. Partial scholarships may also be given. Defecit Already Exists R. Gordon Bingham, director of student aid, said, \The money will come out of the operating income of th.e college which means settling f~Jr a luger deficit. The $53,000 represents an increase of 50% in funds ta.ken from current income.\ The college is already taking the maximum out of its endowment. Discussing the criterion for determining which students are \disadvantaged Bingham said \we haven't seen many hard core disadvantaged here so we need experience in evaluating them.\ Discussions with officials at schools such as Cornell. Since many disadvantaged students will h.ave lower college board scores, Bingham said, \We will be faced with the problem of separating those with a lack of ability from those whose background accounts for their poor performance. We will be looking for more recommendations.\ \Yet guidance counselors in big city schools often don't know the students.\ Bingham reconunended obtaining references from community leaders including ministers and members of community action programs. Union Attracts Three Types and high board scores. Yet they will probably get an education anyway.\ The student aid director sees Union drawing its students from three groups-- those accepted under normal procedures; those of the Project HOPE type who need a remedial bridge; and those in the middle who are not meeting the usual standards, but who do not require a compensatory program. Grant To VITA Funds Program ln~ThisCountry By RANDY SUTTER Vol un tee rs for International Techllical Assistance, Inc. (VITA) was awarded a $247,050 contract by the Office of Economic Opportunity. Union-Concor~d Institute Funded Bingham believes, \the college has a responsibility to recruit students who wouldn't otherwise get an education with their current records and under ordinary conditions.\ He said, \We could go after the solidly acceptable black students--those with good grades According to Dr. Beno Sternlicht, president of VITA, the OEO contract will enable the volunteer operation \to provide self-help programs throughout the countzy with technical assistance whose value will far exceed the amount of the contract.\ By NEILS. KRAMER The association between Union and Concord Colleges has been extended by a federal grant for a summer institute at Union for social studies teachers of disadvantaged students in Appalachia. WH lia m B. Bennett, associate professor of economics at Union, originated the proposal for the institute. The institute, under the joint sponsorship of Union and Concord, was one of seven institutes in economics throughout the country funded under the Educational Professions Development Act. Thirty teachers will participate in the institute, which will last from June 30 to August 8. Approximately $36,500 in federal monies has been appropriated. There will be no direct costs to Union, where the institute will take place. Out of Poverty \Rural disadvantaged children never get to experience the kind of economic system in which they can pull ihemselves out of poverty through gainful employment,\ Bennett said 'The aitn 0f this institute is to prepare high school teachers to give courses in economics that will provide that expe riencee.\ \Experiments with this type of high school level economics course in southeastern Ohio have demonstrated that it can successfully instill economic motivation in high school ag.e youths from _poverty backgrounds,\ Bennett explaihed. \A unique aspect of this institute will be its interaction with Union's Upward Bound Program, which is entering its third year. Teachers from the economics institute will obtain experience in the field by teaching ,; economics to small groups of Upward · Bound students.\ Multiple Benefits \Having the two programs at one college l'eads to multiple benefits,\ Bennett said. \The teachers will have an opportunity for supervised practice teaching of economics to disadvantaged students. The students Will have the benefit of a proven innovation in teaching economics which will not be availableto high school students on a large scale for several years.\ Faculty members besides Bennett will be Louis Salk ever, chairman of the econom:ic~ department at the State University of New York at Albany; Peter Pnsper, executive secretary of the Union economics department; and Prof .. William B. Bennett, whose propose«! iltstitute for social studies teachers ft\om Appalachia was founded recently. Rus!h:ing Results Resu]t:;: of first and second rush . show 54-S% ofthe classof'72(231 of 428) pledging fraternities. Six. fraternity houses gained 23 pledges on second rush. Final Rush Results First Second Total AI ph a ])etta Phi 6 Beta Theta !J>i 24 Chi Psi 10 Delta Chi 14 Delta Pll.i 11 Delta Upsilon 11 Kappa ~J>ha 11 · Phi Delta Theta 22 Phi Epsilon Pi 25 Phi Galll!m<~Delta 15 Phi Signsa· Delta 15 Psi Upsii on 12 ·Phi Signu](appa 3 Sigma Clli· 8 Sigma Phi 7 Theta DeltaChi 14 2 3 7 7 1 3 6 24 12 14 11 11 11 25 32 15 22 12 4 11 7 14 Sidney Bell, assistant professor of history at Concord College in Atllens, West Virginia. Bennett wrote the proposal fQr the institute with Concord College as the si1e. The West Virginia College als<> bas an Upward Bound program. He intended for the summer institute to serve as a corollary to Union's association with Concord under a Federal Developing Colleges grant. But la1e last December the U.S. Office of Education approved the transfer Qfthe in.stitute to Union. Bennett conducted a junior Comp. Ed. project course at Concord du.ring part of the fall term. '72 TO MEET Tonight's Freshman class meeting to be held at 7:30 in SS 0 16 will be highlighted by discussions of current college problems. Professor Robert S. Sharlet will speak on \Student Power and Student Responsibility\; Professor Micheal Shinagel on Fratematies and the Pass-Fail System; Professor Wilford Ketz on Maintenance; Professor Willard Roth on Opportunities in Medicine; and Neal G\ordon on \The Results and Implications of the Trustees' Meeting.\ Unlimited Hours For Women Passed By Most Living Units A majority of living units reporting parietal vote results have chosen unlimited hours for women guests. Under current reg11lations, parietals cannot begin until the Dean of Students has received written reports from all living units, specifying the new parietal hours. As of Monday afternoon, the Office of the Deam of Students had received voting reports from 16 of the 26living units, and 7 of the 16 fraternities. Results are: Richmond - Ist floor, 2nd floor and 4th floor, unlimited hours. South College- lsi floor, 2nd floor, and 3rd floor, unlimited hours. Fox- 1st floor, (South wing), 1st floor, (North wing), 2nd floor (North wing), 3rd floor (Nortl1 wing) and 3rd fle>or .(South wing), unlimited hours. Fox - 2nd floor (South wing) voted Mon. - Thurs. 10 a.m. - 11:30 p.m. Fri. lO a.m.-Sun. ll:30 p.m. Davidson · 1st floor (North :at1d South), 2nd (South), 3rd (North and South) unlimited. Second floor nort11 vote<! open 2 p.m. Fri. - 2 p.m. Sun. ' West College -2nd, 3rd and 4th floors voted unlimited hours. ~l~ha De.lta Phi ~ unli~t.ed; P.hi_ Ganyna J?elta - unlimited; Phi Sigma Delta _ unluntted; Stgma Plu- unhmtted_;Plu Epsilon Pt -unlimited; Theta Delta Chi. open Sun. -Thurs. 8 a.m. - 12 p.m.; Fn., Sat. 24 hours a day. Psi Upsilon ·weekends open til5 a.m.; weekdays open til 1 a.m. Beta Theta Pi • weekdays-upstairs- 12 midnight, downstairs- 3:00 a.m. Weekends unlimited. Delta Cl1i, Delta Phi, Delta Upsilon, and Sigma Chi voted unlimited. Phi Sigma Kappa voted 10 a.m. -11:30 p.m. weekdays; non:party weekends, unlimited; party weekends til 3:00 a.m. Kappa A.lpha, Chi Psi, and Phi Delta Theta have not voted. The grant from OEO will cover only travel and administrative costs in the new programs. Yet with only these costs covered, VITA will be able to launch new services in technical assistance. Specialists Serve In Free Time As Dr. Sternlicht said, \This arrangement is possible because VITA's assistance is given by specialists in industry and education who volunteer to serve in their free time. \A special advantage of this agreement is VITA volunteers combine high motivation with technical competence. They are not involved in VITA for personal gain. They want to contribute toward improving the world we live in.\ The new projects called for by the grant will be directed by a newly created VITA-USA Divislon. The overall head of the new division will be Benjamin P. Coe, present Executive Director of VITA on campus. VITA's expanded domestic program provide a channel through which skilled persons concerned about poverty may effectively use their talents. Professionals Tackle Probletas VITA-USA's Consulting Service will provide professional aid on specific problems sent in by mail. Volunteers will work directly with those who request help. For a particular job, VITA can choose the right volunteer from anywhere in the nation. A new feature of the Consulting Service will be short-term assignment of one to thirty days for VITA volunteers. Technical volunteers will meet with requestors to solve problems dealing with their businesses and conununities. In an attempt to solve some of the problems of the decline of urban business, VITA is initiating a Pilot Area Program. As the Boston area hosts one of the strongest VITA chapters, Mr. Coe hopes to sponsor VITA's first Pilot Area Program in the Back Bay area of Massachusetts some time this year. In the near future, Mr. Coe hopes to bring the program to Schenectady.

PAGE 2 CONCOROIENSIS JANUARY 28, 1969 JANUARY LETTERS TO THE EDITOR NOTHING DONE concerning the quali1y of the food in the West College Cafeteria. We feel H is time for direct action. Beginning Wednesday, January 29, we, the undersigf.l.ed, plan to protest this lack of aohon with a public fast, reducing our food intake to one meal per week, and rcstrictitlg ourselves to milk, water and jHice for the t remainder of the week. Hope fully, this action will receive the support o.f some of those tortured souls who are FORCED to• eat in West College. Perhaps action such as this will hasten the improvement of the quality of the food. Saga calls itself a food service--- Let's ma~e ,iu r· 1nR •hr ..,, ~l, ·! , p,,.r t ·, ·~ • ~· .J.dt·r.t E,,,j., ,,f t'nl·'nC.JI!t·K~ ~. l-l·,.nt·~t ••• ·l, N.Y. r-;.,tL·ndl A.l'.Pr 1 J..,,n~ RPpr~>~ sent.t!t\.t•· :\ld~:,nd: Fd·H.!tl••ndl · Ad-.t·rll..,Ln~ St'r'.l•t· In~. C-J::.t·~t· PJt-'ll..,hiT\\ Ht'i'ft\\'t~n•.I'L\~ 1h() L!'XJ·fll<.~ n r\·.t\n..;t ~. Y. (' .. Edtt'-'fldl OHtcE:', Old G\rn. l'ntun C ·llP~t' Puhltr'dtt.'n Office \\ohttf\· hur~l Pnnttng & Btndtng C'n .. Inc. 416-4JB F1Fth A,P, Tr<n. 2.15-4450. E nt .·rP 1 In th p s~ hf'nf\l\tdd)' pq::,t Of,fLl(' d\'> St>(\tJnd c:d.~~ Mdi! \1utt~r. Suh'>crLrtJ·•n 20¢ o1 •·~p..,, Sb u o.,.ear ddl'-f'rt'd dn'.'whE\rP tn th€' t_lnt•e-d Stdtt·s.. SENIOR BOARD D. Peter Drotman ................................................... Editor-in-Chief Richard Lewis ..................................................... Business Manager William Ouzer ...................................................... Managing Editor · Allen Gartner ............................................................. News Editor Paul Andrews ....................................................... Facsimile Editor Henry Fein ................................................................ Sports Editor Alan Klein ....................................................... Contributing Editor Richard Kramer .............................................. Photography Editor JUNIOR BOARD Bruce Husten ....................................... Associate Managing Editor Larry Friedman ...................... -.................... Assistant News Editor Michael Swirsky ............................... National Advertising Manager Jerry Levine ........................... -............. Local Advertising Manager Jeff Bi1n ................................. -..................... Subscription Manager Ed Jewme ..................................................... Distrubition Manager Lloyd Birns ........................... ,_ ............ Ass't Subscription Manager Andrew Crisses ....................................... Assistant Features Editor STAFFS News--Mike Crowley, Harris Ginsberg, Steve Levy, Alan Mell, Randy Sutter, Stu Neslin, Bill Ouzer Facsimile--Peter Weingold, Steven A. Cole, Danny Shocket, Bill Shapiro, Ray Krise, William Dougherty Sports--Gary Provost, Stu Moss, Paul Forbes, Jay Blitzman, Bill Holleran, Hank Levine Photography--Jody Saslow, Mark Boylan, George Kaplan, David Zapata, Mark Lichtenstein Winter To the Editor: I learned wome new facts about the Student Council t<might: that it does not follow Robert's Rules of Order and that it does not believe in a basic tenet of Democracy, specifically the protection of minority rights. Both of these points came to light dming a vote on whether or not to include minority reports in the presentation of the new constitution. The council decided to present the constitution as a package deal rather then include minority reports on certain key issues on which there was dissension. Some of these issues were originally passed by the ad hoc Philharmonic Disappoints Reviewer By LARRY FRIEDMAN Last Friday's concert featuring Professors Edgar Curtis, Hugh Allen Wilson and the Northeastern New York Philharmonia offered a strange blend of incompetence and fine musicianship. Curtis conducted the all-string orchestra with spirit and precision, although he continued directing after the orchestra had concluded Bach's 3rd Brandenberg Concerto. Wilson too, showed virtuosity on the harpsichord to the extent that he far outshone the orchestra. With problems of intonation and technique, the Philharmonia failed to live up to a good reputation gained in past performances. Faulty pizzicato in the Bach Harpsichord Concerto led this reviewer to believe the group lacked practice. In addition, Curtis was forced to end the lone Mozart number in the middle because the solo violin was far off key. This added to the air of non- professionalism which pervaded not only the musicians, but also ·./the audience,. The orchestra did perform · ; well in the final work, a Romantic piece by Charles . . . Roussel, which was reminiscent It has been said of Scnenectady that only three seasons exist here:>: winter, mud and July. We find this to be unfair . have you ever seen July'? Winter in Schenectady is a dehuma~1izing experience. In all d<'ference to the stark raving mad skiing enthusiasts and maniacal winter outdoorsmen whose winter slogan adorns many a car's bumper \pray for '' I h \ f d \ snow, our on y response can e: pray or mu . of Cesar Franck. However, the concert overall suffered from poor musicianship and was saved from total disaster only by the fme performance of Wilson. CONCERT SLATED Hugh Allen Wilson, associate professor of_ music and college organist, will be joined by the Northeastern New York Philhannonia for the next in his series of organ recitals at 4 p.m. Sunday, Feb. 2, in Memorial Chapel. The Philharmonia will be conducted by Anthony Puzzano. Opening the program will be \Concerto for Organ and Orchestra in C major,\ Haydn. 'Prof. Wilson will solo in the second selection, \Concerto for Harpsichord and Orchestra in F minor,\ Bach. The final selection will be \Concerto for Organ and Orchestra in G minor,\ Poulerc. The PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP 262 Saratoga Road MAYFAIR SHOPPING CENTER At the Sign cf the Red Neon Pipe TUES. thru SAT. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. also THURS. and FRI.: 7 Jo 9 PM SCOTIA, N. Y. Phone 399-1630 committee to revise the constitition. At that tiwle the conunittee agreed to submit miaority reports. Ia the Council, the vote on these issues was reversed, but the council, induding former minority members of the ad hoc committee, no longer saw fit to have the views of the minority represented. .. To compound the situation, the vote on whether to inclwde minority reports received a one-third vote in favor. According to Robert's Rules, this is sufficient to have minority reports including. This was brought up as a point of order and it was announced that the Council does Hot follow those rules. l t is by now obvious that the council will not submit minority reports, and I am resigned to waH until the new constitution is passed (if the same fate does not befall it as befell the ill-fated New York State constitution) and hope that the new representatives will be H1ore democratic. In the mean time I can work on fermenting my sour grapes. To the Editor: Sincerely Stuart Rubin '69 Many words have been spoken, petitions signed, committees arpointed and it one. Sincerely, Dal'my Shocket '72 Donald B. Bosch '72 • · George B. Lonsdorf '72 d . lAd . . · . In ustr1a m •n•strahon·i BY NAN< Ed Not Associate SkidmoreN Arriving Washington Nation Mol War on Sa Union-Skid1 masses c \\' Yippies,\ supporters demonstrati know you f was it Gran of housinf concerning activities Mobilizatio1 A group including m the Begro with Mrs. f. poverty pre .and herself c ivil-rigi demonstrat New Academic Dept. ' 1 We we>e i Union College has established an Institute of Industrial Economics Administration from what has for the past seven years been a graduate program without formal administrative structure. oflosing practical relevance. Provides Management Education different from other graduate programs in the field, Prof. Thimm said, because it seeks mature students with good technical backgrounds and does not offer degrees to anyone who does not have at least a full year of industrial experience. 1 i black comn The institute has the status of an academic department. In addition to its degree programs, the institute provides management education through short courses, seminars and symposia. The next seminar is schedule@ for March. All LA. faculty, Prof. Thimm said, will teach half their load in undergraduate courses, such as statistics, economics, and systems analysis. This will give added strength to undergraduate interdisciplinary offerings, he added. Union's industrial administration program is Although the institute is primarily interested in the application of systems analysis, quantitative methods, and accounting controls to managerial decision making, Prof. Thimm noted the Union I.A. institute has a strong humanistic,. liberal arts basis which is provided through required core courses. Dr. Alfred L. Thii1ID1, professor of economics and industrial administration,. is director of the new institute. The formation of the institute, Prof. Thimm said, does not change the l.A. program at Union, which enables students to work towards the Master of Arts degree in either industrial administration or operations research. At present, about 450 students are enrolled :in Union's I.A. program. All but 25 are attending classes part time. Thespians Prepare Class Held in Poughkeepsie Union operates an LA. program in Poughkeepsie to serve the Mid-Hudson region. About half of the total LA. enrollment attend classes in Poughkeepsie, the largest graduate education facility in that section of the state. Prof. Thimm noted that the I.A. institute draws faculty from three sources: fulltime I.A. personnel, other fulltime Union College faculty who ieach part of their load in industrial administration, ancl adjunct faculty from area industry. Prof. Thimm !Loted the programs in Poughkeepsie and Schenectady are identical. He hopes to expand the offerings of the Institute in both locations. Another function of the institute, he continued, is to research areas of management science. This is possible at Union, he said, because of the dose ties between local industry and the college. Prof. Thirnm sees the institute as a future innovator, but not to the point ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS MECHANICAL ENGINEERS The Mountebanks are presenting two one-act plays, The Firebugs and The Man of Destiny, by Max Frish and George Bernard Shaw, respectively, on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, January 30, 31, and February 1. Senior Michael Riley is directing The Firebugs while Philip Rice is directing The Man of Destiny. According to director Riley, Frisch originally wrote The Firebugs as an on dissent in Nazi Germany. Since it was reworked, however, Riley thinks it has a great deal of relevance to the United States today, particularly to student uprisings. Battle of Wits Shaw wrote TI,e Man of Destiny as a character study of Napoleon Bonaparte before he became emperor of France. The plot centers around a battle of wits between Napoleon, played by David Van Denburgh, and The Strange Lady, (Maria Scafura), who has stolen some of Napoleon's letters, which he must now recover. The Firebugs stars Dean Hoffman as Gottlieb Nard en will be an 1:ampus FEBRUARY 4 Graduating Electrical Engineers and Mechani\ cal Engineers are invited to discuss career op- portun itfes in research, design, development and manufacturing in areas such as: Airborne Radar Systems f Pilot Display Systems 1 Ground Support Equipment f Advanced Com· puter Techniques I Advanced Electromechani• cal Design Techniques I Optical Devices Norden's location in Norwalk, Connecticut is easily accessible to the entire New York metro· politan ar.ea. For convenient appointment, please make ar- rangements in advance through your Placement Office. N ·d United or en OIVISIONOF • ~1rcraft An Equal Opportunity Employer (M&F) I • Biedermann. His wife is played • by Mary Hoffa and Sepp and Willi by Andrew Anderson and Philip Larson respectively. Union Admitted Free The plays will begin at 8: 30 each nighi, in the Nott Memorial Theater. Union students will be admitted free and their dates for only 75 cents. All others are $1.5 0. Reservations may be mad'e at the box office in Nott Memorial Theater or by calling 3464098 from 1 to 5 p.m. 1:?' .......... ;.=.c;;ISTI!REP k ,..~:.;~J2sa e' DI.O.li40N.O RINGS Our matly beawtHul Kec!Y- sake ring styles will make your choice a difficult one . 13ut one you'll cherish forever. •''''''\\*v\'c'\'••, . ;'Good Houtekeeplng'• .R1ng! f'n'hr~,.d ·11\ •}lll'tli rlthul, ~ GUIIAIIIHC.: ,., l'rAdt'·M~t ... ~tog. 'f.\! Wtllb'M, 428 STATE STREET the stares at us by m< the city. M adopted a including o lil<e to join On Su demonstrat Dept. Build Mobilizatio from the U to protest the F.B.I. 1 by the F.B.I. agent the driv1 -Skidmore were keep other groui Washington Anticipa which neve reinforceml Justice D1 with riot c demonstrat Sherman I ·· rally was 1 group joine demons Mobilizati1 Washington \ At the t year old \I'm here young,\ an in the COUJ She was over-30 der housewives Veterans fc At the a preceded tl streets of Dellinger l Mobilizatio JAY 1 1 SPECIAL Brin Free F 'For j Gen'Eu Those Who K Havel ~~\ecom11 FOR I

-------------- ------------ JANUARY 28, 1969 CONCORD I ENS IS PAGE 3 1969 in the We feel H t action. , January , plan to with a Inauguration: Contemplation, Demonstration, Frustration . By J>AUL ANDREWS Avenue wanted no part m any our food per week, to milk, for the t week. tion will some of who ave st College. BY NANCY SCHWERZLER Ed Note: The author is Associate Edi:tor of the Skidmore News Arriving at the temporary Washington Headquarters of the Nation Mobilization to End the War on Saturday JaB. 18, the Union-Skidmove group joined lll asses of students and s this will of the Saga calls . ma~e ' J I. ·••Yippies,\ former McCarthy supporters and a hard-core of demonstration veterans (\don't I know you from the Pentagon--or was it Grant Park\) all in search Sincerely, , of housing, and information '72 i .·. concerning the anti-inauguration Bosch '72 '1 activities sponsored by the nsdorf '72 · Mobilization. ! A group of 9 Skidmore girls r including myself were housed in 0 ,.n· ~~ ... , the Begro district of the city with Mrs. Hardy, an organizer of I poverty programs in the Dishict .,.,. _and herself a veteran of many civil-rights and peace demonstrations. graduate ld, Prof. We weie well received by the i ' r · black community, in contrast to it seeks th good and does who full year is in the analysis, and rols to making, Union strong basis through is played • Sepp and erson and n at 8:30 Memorial will be dates for are may be in Nott j by calling s Kec19- make ult one. ish n•fMIIliCt ~~ * r,_....,'!t Houtelteeplng:; IUIUII!f!c.l~ ·~C Wtllb~ 428 ,, \ \' ~ the stares and epithets shouted at us by many white residents of the city. Most of the police had adopted a tolerant attitude, including one who said he would lil<e to join us if he could. On Sunday morning a demonstration at the Justice Dept. Building sponsored by the Mobilization and a large group from the University of Michigan, to protest the :alleged efforts of the F.B.I. to prevent car rentals by the Michigan contigent. F.B.I. agents had also questioned the driver of the Union -Skidmore bus, and apparently were keeping close watch on other groups participating in the Washington demonstration. Anticipating a confrontation which never materialized, police reinforcements were sent to the Justice Department equipped with riot clubs and rifles. The demonstrators later moved on to Sherman Park, where a short rally was held after which the group joined thousands of other demonstrators at the Mobilization tent near the Washington Monument. At the tent I spoke with a 74 year old woman who stated, \I'm here to learn from the young,\ and intended to march in the counter-inaugural parade. She was only one of many over-30 demonstrators, including housewives and members of the Veterans for Peace organization. At the afternoon rally, which preceded the march through the streets of Washington, David Dellinger headed the National Mobilization organization, gave JAY BILLIARD LOUNGE 167 JAY ST. SPECIAL RA TEiS FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS Bring Your Dates Free Parking In Rear 'For three Generations.' Those Who Know ... Have been .. ecommending - the keynote speech in which he defined the purpose .of the counter-inauguration as a move to \liberate the black people ... the poor .. ,and to liberate Washington, O;C.\ Wearing a \Feminism Lives\ banner, Miss Maralyn Webb next spoke on the fight for women's rights. Fighting political and joh discrimination against women and inequality of salary scales, Miss Webb remarked, \We're slaves.\ After fighting the jeers and heckling of the met:~. in the audience (including a particularly vociferous group of Union students) Miss Webb concluded her remarks with the reminder, \Fifty•three per cent of the population are women, and don't forget it.\ M o r e t h a n 1 3 , 0 00 demonstrators '(contrary to the Washington Post figure of 6,000) then took to the streets to begin the anti-inaugural parade from the Washington Monument to the Capitol. The march itself was peaceful, although it consisted of groups with varying political ideologies. Despite the boycott of the Washington demonstration by the National SDS organization, many local chapters were present, including a sizeable Ohio SDS delegation which chanted, \Ho ChiMinh Is Gonna Win\ throughout the march. A group called the \guerilla theater\ enacted the brutalities committed in Vietnam. Carrying a coffin strewn with mutilated dolls, the white face painted \actors\ hummed \America\ in dirge tones while occasiona1ly ommitting piercing howls. Several Union and Skidmore students were present at the Smithsonian demonstration in which a small group sought to block entrance to a reception for Vice President Agnew. Twenty-two protestors were arrested by mounted police. Firecrackers were set off by demonstrators, causing the horses to charge the crowd. This demonstration, which was not sponsored by the Mobilization, was the _sol~ _ instan~e of a HOW ABOUT LUNCH AFTER OIN~E:R? Rock Band Extraordinai re CALL RICH 311-2934 Acme Barber Shop 509 Union Street Experienced Barbers Nearest to Union College Students- \ HERSHEL MAURICE 1s WALTER \'3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family•t TREET 166 JAY ST. •• (\ FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY police-demonstrator confrontation. On Saturday evening, the counter-inaugural ball was held rat the Mobilization tent, featuring Phil Ochs and two local rock groups, the Urch Per:ch and the Fallen Angels . Grass was everywhere (underfoot,too) as were thousands of dancing demonstrators. A mass musical volleyball game was played-,beach balls, strobes, music and thousarrds of uplifted hands. To the emcee's request for funds to cover the expenses of the Mobilization, \C'mon you, we need bread\) the demonstrators responded by 'passing change, bills and checks from hand to hand to the stage. The tremendous sense of purpose and commitment of the group was evident in the money-passing--there was no visible pilfering, although the money was often passed through hundreds of hands to reach the stage. The -exhausted Union-Skidmore group left Washington on Monday afternoon, after many had watched the President's inaugural address on television. On the return trip, I questioned most of the Skidmore contigent as to what they did in • Washington and as to their original motivation for going on the trip. With the exception of 4 or 5 girls, all those questioned had come to Washington for reasons other than to demonstrate against the war and the new President. Most had come to \sight see\ and viewed the peace and Freedom~party sponsored bus as \Cheap transportation\. A group of five girls stated that they were \scared\ by the demonstrations and their participants. Another Skidmore student said she had come \to have a good time,\ but also wished to show her disapproval of the Vietnam War, and had marched in the \counter-inaugural parade. One often wonders what is actually accomplished by such a series of demonstrations. It would seem that, in the words of Henri de tubac, \whenever we say NO, we imply that, on a deeper level there is a YES which provokes and originates it.\ The participants in the demonstration were expressing by their presence their negative attitude toward war and the society which has for too long tolerated poverty and racial injustice, while demonstrators simultaneously were affirming the unrealized democratic ideals of peace and equality. Seniors--please order your graduation announcements at the Student Activities Office. By now it is obvious that Washington was not another Chicago. All of the demonstrations planned by the Mobilization to End the War in Vie tn a1n were orderly and passed without incident. At the most, 100 people were arrested--less than one per cent of the total number of persons involved in the counter- inauguration. If only because it came off without major confrontation, the Washington demonstration could be counted a success. The Mobilization promised no violence in the pre-inaugural publicity buildup and then made their word stick with efficient planning and plenty of activity to keep everybody busy. Yet it was impossible to ignore the Chicago tension. Armed with billie clubs longer than your kid brother, the cops looked steel-blue formidable. But their eyes darted scared. The premarch rally sounded loose over the mike but felt thense through the air. You saw mostly grim faces, and if there was a laugh or smile it was a nervous one. . • ... _ The Mobilization's nonconfrontation policy was helped by the fact that most of the 10,0(!]0-plus demonstrators who pulsed down Pennsylvania violence. But there was abother curious kind of demonstrator who was not there to demonstrate but to aggrevate, instigate--in the end, to confront. He booed the mention of Robert F. Kennedy at the rally (his hero is Sirhan), he interrupted a Vietnam war veteran in the middle of his speech, he goaded police with obscene words and gestures. He threw mud at guests going to a reception for Spiro Agnew, he tossed sticks and firecrackers .at policemen 0!1 horseback in the dark. He was there to cause trouble. Eventually he probably got arrested and was carted off to jail, pleased that he would have done Che Guevera proud. Fortunately, this type of bubble gum agitator was in such a distinct minority that he hardly deserves mention. He could be ignored but for the fact that he saw a lot of radio and TV air time and newsprint. For that reason he diluted much of the effectiveness of the peaceful counter-inaugural march. The Mobilization deserves congratulations for its efforts. There were not even any minor skirmishes during any of its planned activities, and Chairman David Dellinger and his staff did everything they could to keep the tone of the events noninflammatory. You'll never get anywhere without it. Nothing helps a young engineer~s career like being given a challenge. Which is another way of saying a chance to fail now and then. To make his own mistakes. At Western Electric we give out newly recruited engineers responsibility almost immediately. They make their own de- cisions. Learn from their own errors . Don't get us wrong. We keep our demands reasonable enough so that our recruits can make their decisions at their own pace. But our thinking is, a man feels awfully good about even a small decision when it's his. If you're the type who'd like the chance to make your own moves, see our recruiter or write College Relations, 222 Broad- way, New York, N. Y. 10038. A lot of hard work never hurt anyone. @ W~stern Electric MI\NUFACTURING & SUPPLY UNIT OF THE BELL SYSTEM AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

• i: .,< ~ ~~ ·• ~ <; \' 0~ 0 ConcOrdy Sports JANUARY 28, 1969 Grapplers Pin Statesmen: Tough Foes Here Next By STU MOSS Looking ahead to today's key match with Colgate, Union's varsity wrestlers were not in top form in beating Hobart 26-l 0 Saturday afternoon. The win gave the squad a 4-0 season record and fourteen consecutive match victories. Colgate has been the only team to beat the Garnet in the last 24 contests, over a three year span, and the Garnet have been looking to this match since the season began. Coach Ron Coleman juggled his line-up in the Hobart contest to allow some of his matmen to see action. John Barrows, wrestling for the first time this year, looked tremendous in pinning his 123 lb. opponent in 1:49 of the third period. However, for the Colgate match, regular Bill Munno will go at this weight. Ronnie Ruhl, who normally wrestles the 117 lb. optional class and backs up Munno, moved up to the 130 lb. class and wrestled a draw. Frank D'Antuono, a starter at 130, moved up a class to 137 and wrestled extremely well be fore being pinned. Larry Stevens, who will go in this weight class against Colgate, wrestled an exhibition match and won. Tom Tripp won by default when his opponent used an illegal move and was disqualified in the 145 lb. class. Tripp suffered a dislocated shoulder but the injury was not considered serious and he was expected to be ready for today's contest. After Jeff Knetzer lost a decision to his 152lb. opponent, the Dutchmen came back strong as they swept the four remaining matches. Dick Rosener at 160, Naysim Simon at 167 and Brian Crandall at 177 all won by decision. Pete Kenyon wrestled well in pinning his opponent at 5: 16 in the heavyweight division. AfterCo'igate today, the team will face another tough opponent when they host Kings Point Saturday. The frosh who did not wrestle against Hbbart, will face the Mariner's freshman team at 2:00. The varsity contest will follow immediately it:1 the Alumni Gym. Frosh Swim Tops Hobart; Needel, Sinatra Set Marks BY BILL HOLLERAN The freshman swim team opened their season Saturday with a victory, trimming the Hobart Statesmen 60-33 at Geneva, in what was described by Coach Robert Benson as \a good job for their first meet of the season.\ The score might have been even higher for the Garnet aquamen if they had not been disqualified in the medley relay opener. Tom Hough garnered a first-place finish in the 200-ywd freestyle, finishing at 3:24.8, one of his best times to date, while Dick Stienwurtzel copped second honors in the event. Stienwurtzel also filled in for the ailing flyer Rich Gross, and won the butterfly with a time of 1:50.7. Other Garnet whmers were Vince Sinatra, in the individual medley, Tom Klinkow in the 100-yard freestyle, and Tom Hough in the 400-yard freestyle. Hough garnered a time of 7:16.2, his best ever, in the victory. The yearling mermeR also won the freestyle relay, with the tandem of Hough, Stienwurtzel, Bill Needell, and Henry Casten collecting the seven points. Good Depth Mike Rich, with a second-place in the 50-yard freestyle and a third in the 100-yard freestyle; Mark Coven, with third-place in both the individual relay and the backstroke; Duncan HanRah, with a second-place in the 1 00-yard breaststroke; and Casten, with a third-place in the 50-yard freestyle, all aided the Garnet yearling's victorious cause. Two freshmen records fell by the wayside in the Hobart meet, as N eedell set a new mark in the backstroke with his winning time of 1:01.1. Sinatra also wrote his name into the record books with his first-place clocking of 1:09.2 in the breaststroke. Mermen Trimmed,53-5J BY BRUCE GARBER Yankiver was touched out at the Mike Horwath wiped out It was a long, dismal ride finish after nearly mai?ng. up a Hobart, but making up only back from Geneva, New York three body-length deficit w1th an seven of the nine point for the Garnet swimmers, who all-out effort in the last 25 difference. lost a 53-51 decision to a yard~. . Trying to make up a great competent Hobart team. . D1vers Mike .Rone an~ Harvey deficit, incurred early in the In the pre-meet strategy Richmond agam combmed for meet Union's rally was staved Coach Robert Benson and eight points and began a Union off 'at the fmish and the capt~ins Kevin Hobin and Steve rally which saw Werlin and swimmers were h~ted within Werhn calculated that the results Hoben take .back-to-back firsts smelling distance of victory of the first relay could easily in the 200 yard butterfly and · determine the outcome of the 100 yard freestyle, respectively. V I P L 0 U N G E entire contest, and that did it. Two events later Y ankiver came A N N O U .. , C E S Although the relay combination back to win the 500 yard 1 ' of Mike Gow, John Horwath, freestyle. Then, within striking Werlin and Hobin dropped its range, it was left to the time by nearly three seconds breaststrokers to capture four from the previous week, and was more points, a must, to keep the a mere 2.1 seconds off the win alive. Three was the best Union mark, Hobart pulled a they could do, with John surprise. The Statesmen splashed Worwath grabbing second. in first, six tenths of a second With all hopes of the win ahead of the Union record. gone, the freestyle relay men, Uphill Fight Wedin, Hoben, Seward, . and SOUR HOUR WEONESDAYS & FRIDAYS 4-6 BEHIND LADOS COLLEGE STREET From that point on, it was an · uphill battle, for the Dutchmen, .------------------------J who needed a fewkeybreaksto ~ EWEST LU~CH win. Just the opposite happened, . and the tossups went to Hobart, as in the thousand yard freestyle, where an unexpected second fell to a third, making the sroce 15-1, Hobart, after only two events. Things began to pick up when Hoben and Dave Seward swept the 50 yard freestyle, but in the 200 yard individual medley hopes fell as stalwart Burt THE PEANUT STORE featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeats from all over the world. 406 STATE ST. 715 Albany Street Specializing: - HOT DOGS WITH FAMOUS SAUCE - DINNeRS AND SANDWICHES - TAKE-OUT ORDERS - Union Student!S Favorite Spot - (Serving Schenectady Since 1921 t Mon.-Thurs. 7 A.M.·2 A.M. Fri.·Sat. 7 A.M.-4 A.M. Sun. 9 A.M.·l A.M. For All Your Paint and Hardware Needs ~ Cleaning Supplies See Us CAPITOL PAINT & HARDWA.RE COMPANY 1259-63 STATE ST. Phone FR 4-4123 PAGE 4 .ro<\ Hoop Crushed By Mariners i BY GARY PREVOST Dominating both the offensive and defensive boards, successfully fast breaking, and harassing the Garnet with a pressing zone defense, the Mariners of Kings Point roBed to an easy 95-61 hoop victory on the wim1er's court. The loss dropped the Dutchmen to 5-8 for the season, while the Mariners upped their mark to 4-5. The Garnet are idle until Friday, when Middlebury invades the Fieldhouse at 8:00 p.m. The Garnet started quickly against the Mariners, holding a 4-0 lead after a minute of play, but the rest of the night was all Kings Point. With Mariner center John Miller hitting on eight of his first ten shots, Kings Point erased the early deficit to lead by as much as 21 before taking a 47-32 lead into the locker room. Neidel Stays Hot Only a hot hand by Bill Neidel, who scored ten in a row at one point, kept the Garnet in the game. The Mariners blew the hoopsters off the court at the beginning of the second half, hitting on 14 of 21 shots for a 77-48 lead after eleven minutes. Senior forward Ed Hoffman, ECAC Sophomore-of-the-Year two sea sons ago, led the Mariners with 27 points for the contest, while Miller finished with 22 points and a game high of 15 rebouads. outside, where they made 24 of! l----- 70. I The Marine~s dominated the boards, 65-43, and out up a totaJ of 87 shots, making 39. The Garnet were unable to penetrate the Kings Point zone, and were forced to sho0t from the Bill Neidel led the Dutchmel\ with 20 points,. accumulated ir only seventeen minutes or play,ing time. Bill fouled put · with just five minutes gone i~ the second half. i ~72 ·C,agers !Lose Tw·ice· ~~~ BY HANK LEVINE The freshmen suffered their third defeat in a row Satmday night ; .• in a game Coach Brown called \a complete blitz\. The Garnet~! hoopsters took the floor agaiHst Albany Junior College., burdened iby •. injuries. Howie DeLuca, injured in the Amherst ,game last · Wednesday, did mt dress for the game, Rich Goldberg was sufferinErt from a bruised wrist and a touch of the flu, and Jim Tedisco was not ' feeling up to paiJ'. i • Albany Junior C0llege is a very fast .team, and used its speed tG I penetrate the i~side at will. ln !he ear~y goin~ Dick Davis and Riehl!! Goldberg provided good offensive and defensive board control, but · with six minutes te go in the half, 'the team fell apart. i The Garnet freshmen looked very tight and their offense was ) sloppy. A few baskets by Jim Tediseo kept them in the ball game ~1· with the score at 29-2 7 wit11 six rninu tes to play in the first half. l Rich Goldberg then got itno foul trouble and was replaced ))y ! · Joel Roslyn. This hurt the Garnet off the boal'ds; Albany was a:ble .to.ll take two or three -tries at each basket. Albany continued to fast ! break and drive the inside, as the first half ended with the score ! 54-33 in favor of Albany. : The second half was more of the same, only Albany started to hit n! fBr•ograrn from the outside too. Kem Harrison and Luther Rackley led the i Albany squad in a show of smooth ball handling and fine shooting. 1 Albany controlled both boards whi.Je Union tried feebly to stay in) .. the game. The game ended with Rackley pouring in 27, Harrison 22, 1 1 ,.;u 11 ~.;ta as Albany waltzed .to a 109-71 victory. 1 ~~~,,,...,.\ ByS1 . The G:arnet hoopsters also lost Friday night, as they fell to the Kin~s P01nt frosh, 68-63. Tedisco and Davis provided most of the, sconng punch for the Dutchmen, pouring in twenty and fifteen points respectively. tude olio· REMOVAL SALE OPEN THIS TUES.-WED.-THURS. NITESTILL9 1/2 PRICE Suits Sportcoa ts Slacks Outerwear Swea.ters Shirts Jeans MOVING SOON TO 420 STATE ST. w~r ~quirr ~bop 326 STATE .STREET, 377-3061 ·\ The large res trict1 partment • $1 ,000 gra1 · · president fc i ', filling smal ! needs. lit I 1 The purp help Union r strength chemistry. T said, are ir recipient de and engage i with funds a Committee l report withi faculty- stud1 been sh use at Uni< 1nonths. )J In reply Gordon at Council mee1 very close tatement is iOon as all eel they Cal Nil! be .whic ortnight., Dis< The Dr neeting earl: ·roup has ex imi.ts of mplicatio

AGE 4 \A Causa Persa Parole Assai'' Founded at Union Colle~e 18 77 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., JANUARY 31,1969 24 ol ])ut\ \\\' P· 11l e·eting !Features Ta:lks ir inutes or outed ·out · •. Ill. :n Pass-Fail And :Mai .. ntenance gone 1r By STUART NESLIN Hearing di.scussions on . maintenance, pass,fail,. and other subjects, about 60 persons attended day night&! first freshman class meeting Garnet< : · . Featured speakers were Neal rdened iby •· Gordon and Profess0n Robert Sharlet, last · · Michael Shinagel, and Wilford Ketz. sufferingq Gordon spoke first, concerning was not ' plications of the recent Trustees' '• meeting. He emphasize(! Union College speed to I belongs to the acadentic community. and Ric.hll! Jordon expressed displeasure at the ntrol, but . opinion Union belongs. to the students, an idea given publicity in the Jan. 24 was~/ of Concordiensis. He said, in answer to a question, he saw no alternative to the maintenance program other than the structured classes of the past. Ketz reported approximately nine per cent of students fail gym, a rate comparable to •hat of academic failure. Freshman Want Fmternities Prof. Shinagel referred also to the opinion Union belongs to the students. He said the students must remember they are part of a community where other facets are relatively more permanent. Regarding fraternities, Shinagel cited freshman pledge statistics, showing that a majority of freshmen want fraternities. Determination of the J, ':- PRICE TWENTY CENTS ball game : · Power Needs Res~onsibilHy half. ) . Student power was d1.e subject of . -- ~ placed l>y :. Prof. Sharlet's talk. Sha.rlet said power a:ble to.11 st be used legitimately, stressing fraternity's role in the academic community is necessary, Shinagel said. Ideas on the pass-fail option were also discussed. CO-ED WEEK: If plans for a projected Co-ed week are realized scenes like this could grace Union's grounds.·· photo by Friedman to fast ! \ ... with student :power comes the score i t responsibility.\ i Explaining that, in the maintenance to hit 1 \ . ~,..,.,_ •• , the student is responsible for Y led the i ·• own physical conditioni11g, Prof. shooting. I said his report t0 the Faculty to stay in) ommittee on February 4th Prof. Willard Roth, originally slated to speak to those interested in pre-medicine, cancelled his speech because it was late. His talk will be re-scheduled. Co-ed Week Envisioned In Spring; Would Be Held First Part Of Term 22, 1 erning the physical education During the qBestion and answer period following the meeting there was a discussion concerning the physical education requirement. By LARRY FRIEDMAN to the of the 11 fifteen I • will \ ... recotnm end changes maintenance program which will j.l\\'\'\\''\' flexibility.\ tudents Give Up Hunger Strike ollowing Discussion With Saga Three students ended their hunger strike after 48 hours when Saga Food Service rsonnel invited the students to discuss their complaints. rants Received Union College has received two grants from the E. L du Pm1t de Nemours & Co. totaling $6,000, as of the firm's $2.3 million program of aid to education, resident Harold C. Martin The larger of the grants, $5;000, s restricted to the college's Department of Chemistry. The $1,000 grant was given to the president for discretionary use in filling small special institutional needs. The purpose of these grants is to help Union maintain ()rirnprove the strength of instruction in chemistry. The grants, the company said, are intended 1!G enable the recipient department to fiJI needs and engage in activities not possible with funds alreadyav:rilable. Two of the students, Don Bosch and Danny Shocket met with Harold Richardson and Richard Zucconi of Saga for over half an hour last night to discuss the quality of the food at West College. The Saga officials said they are willing to hear student complaints at any time in their office located behind the kitchen in West College. They said they will try to remedy any problems. Richardson noted that a student food committee has been formed. The committee headed by Tom Nelson is at present gathering complaints and wi 11 meet with Richardson and Zucconi soon. The same students involved in last night's confrontation have presented a petition to Dean of Students Edward Malloy, requesting that freshmen not be forced to buy a meal ticket or to pay for breakfasts that they do not eat. f. Olton Tells A Stressing \Student support is the key to the success of coed at Union,\ students Don Kessler and Mark Merson have inaugurated plans for a.n \Experiment in Coeducational Living\ to be held the first week of the spring tem1. With the intention of feeling out the campus as to whether or not coeducation will have beneficial effects, they emphasized that \this is to be an academic experience, not a playday. We want everyone to take it seriously.\ Give Another Chance \This will give the students another chance,\ noted Kessler, \to E)X.press their feelings on coed, after their poor response to the coeducation questionnaire circulated earlier th.is year.\ In trying to attract girls from as many diverse schools as possible, Merson said they want at least 200 girls. In addition, they will seek girls from local institutions. To be modeled on Yale Coed Week, held earlier this year, it will be necessary to house girls in students' rooms as well as North College which has a capacity of only 50. \This necessitates,\ they noted, \good student cooperation.\ Tax Committee Won't Help \We don't yet know how much it will cost, but since the Tax Committee does not think it can help, we will have to rely on contributions from students and outside sources to get us rug Committee To Give Report Bv HENRY FEIN community. The report to be issued action. Prof. Charles Oltorr announced shortly will be twofold; Mr. Olton After preliminary ACC discussions, ednesday night the college Drug expects the final draft to contain a each of the members of the Council Committee he chairs will deliver its ten-page policy statement as well as an will take up the Drug Committee report within two weeks. A joint equally lengthy study of the legal report with the subsidiary group he faculty- student group-, 'the committee implications of the problem. The represents. After straw votes are as been studying problems of dmg report, in his words, \will present conducted to determine what action use at Union for more than nine society's and the college's views should be taken, the ACC will convene 1nonths. toward drugs.\ to set the college's formal policy on )J In reply to a query from Neal According to Olton, \ninety-nine drug taking. . Gordon at the monthly All-College per cent of the students have no idea, \Drugs Are A Danger\ Council meeting, Olton stated, \We're except in a vague way\ of the exact Olton said, \The College has got to very close to the end .... the policy legal restrictions on drug taking. He adopt something fast. Drugs are a is almost in final form .... As feels it is the duty of the Drug potential serious danger on this 10on as all the committee members Committee to spell out these controls campus. The co11ege's policy is so eel they can endorse a statement, it exercised from without in addition to important that we first must have .vi II be sent t <D· President commenting on what Union's policy discussion on all levels before that \Vlartin ... which should he within the toward drugs should be. policy is set.\ 'ortnight.\ Goes to President In addition to recommending a Discuss Implications Once the committee report has policy statement, the committee will The Drug Cotnmittee began been completed, it will be sent to suggest steps that can l;>e taken by nceting early last Spring Term. The President Martin and released to the various parts ofthe college comrhuni ty ·roup has extensively studied the legal students. The committee wants the such as the library, faculty members, . imHs of drug use and their President to read the study and then and students that will \help students · m p 1 ications for the co liege sent it to the All-College Council for from falling into illegal behavior.\ through,\ Kessler stated. They also plan to ask the faculty for support of the project. In addition, they, \would like to set up with the faculty, a type of free university system at night to include discussion groups on various topics.\ Convocation to Come Merson said they are planning to hold a convocation in about two weeks to determine student support. \If the turn-out is poor,\ he said,\ we will be unable to go through with the project.\ \We need help in all aspects of the plan, especially in recruiting girls. Also, we will have to enlist the aid of the fraternities in the housing and feeding of the girls.\ The program has been tentatively approved by Dean Edward J. Malloy. All students interested in helping with the project should call Kessler or Merson at 372-9772. Implementation Of Parietals Likely To Occur ThisWeekend New parietal hours should go into effec't this weekend as the last of the living units report their votes to the Dean of students. Final results are: Unlimited: all of Richmond house; all of South College; all of West College; Delta Chi; Delta Phi; Delta Upsilon; Sigma Chi; Kappa Alpha; Phi Delta Theta; and Chi Psi. Also, Alpha Delta Phi; Phi Gamma Delta; Phi Sigma Delta; Sigma Phi; Phi Epsilon Pi; lst floor, Fox; 2nd floor, (North wing) Fox; and 3rd floor, Fox. Also, 1st floor, Davidson, 2nd floor (South), Davidson; and 3rd floor, Davidson. Restricted: 2nd floor (South wing), fox--Mon.-Thurs. 10 a.m.-11:30 p.m. Fri. 10 a.m.-Sun. 11:30 p.m. 2nd floor (North wing), Davidson--2 p.m. Fri.-2 p.m. Sun. Also, Theta Delta Chi--Sun.-Thurs. 8 a.m.-12 p.m.; Fri., Sat. 24 hours a day. Psi Upsilon--weekends open 'til 5 a.m.; weekdays open 'til 1 a.m. Also, Beta Theta Pi--weekdays--upstairs--12 midnight, downstairs-- 3:00 a.m. Weekends--unlimited. Phi Sigma Kappa-·10 a.m.-- 11:30 p.m. weekdays; non-party weekends, unlimited; party weekends 'til 3:00 a.m. Most living units voted on their parietal hours early this week. Implementation of the hours was postponed, however, because the fourth floor of South College failed to vote on the hours. Meeting There will be a Student Body meeting, Tuesday, February 11 at II :30 a.m. in Memorial Chapel to vote on the new constitution. One:fourth of the student body must be presented to hold the vote, which will be preceded by discussion. A representative of the floor said several attempts had been made during the week to take a vote but that the efforts failed when it was impossible to gather together the full membership of the floor and when agreement could not be reached. The floor met again early tltis morning and voted for unlimited hours, completing the reports of the living units to the Dean of Students. New hours, therefore, should become effective immediately. Winter Weekend Featuring \The New York Rock and Roll Ensemble\ and folk singer Eric Anderson, freshmen-sponsored Winter Weekend will commence Friday evening, Feb. 14 with ajazz band, \Take Three\ in the Rathskeller. Sly and the Family Stone, originally scheduled to appear, cancelled their engagement because one of their singers is in the hospital. The Saturday concert will begin at 8:30 p.m. in Memorial ChapeL Tickets may be purchased from freshman representatives starting this Monday, and will cost $3.50 a person and $6.50 a couple. Mixing Baroque with rock, the New York Rock and Roll Ensemble consists of Michael Krur.en, Brian c'o rrigan, Clifton and Martin Nivison, and Dorian Rudnytsky, three of whom a.re graduates of the Juilliard School of Music. John Throumoulos, president of the freshman class, also noted there will be a mixer with Skidmore two weeks after Winter Weekend. With plans to continue the mixers regularly if the response is good, Throumoulos noted \We got no backing from the Tax Committee.\

PAGE 2 Olnttror ntrnst!l--· PubilshPd Tut\Sdct> d[\<i Fr~d.o> dur· Ed1tonol Of·flce. Old Gym, Umon lng tht; S(\h\''l ~E\'df t•\ tht.' StudPnl c.)Ilegt•. PublJcatiOO Offlce-. White .. Bod\ nf t'nJ~)n Collt•gl'. ~l h~ne< tdd\ hurst Pnnttn~ & B·anc11ng Co., Inc .. N.Y. :SdtJ·.•nd.l Al-hlf'rtJ,LnK RE.'\pr<·· 4lb-418 FJft.t1 A\ e .. Troy. 235-4450. sentutt\.~· Ndtl·--,n.li Fducd!L~md: Fntl\:'r.E\c1 m ttle SLhenectddy Post A{ht>rll~mg SenJ<l'. Int. Culle~<ie Uf.fJcf' as Second Cl·ass Mail !v1atter. Puhh~ht>rs Rt•.pn·srntdtJ·~t~ JbO SubscTlptl\n 20~t o copy, $6 a vear Lr)o;rnKr,,n A\t\\OUF\' ~. Y. C. dt-!Jvereod dnvwhere 1·n thf\ Un1•ed SENIOR BOARD D. Peter Drotman ................................................... Editor-in-Chief Richard Lewis ..................................................... Business Manager · William Ouzer ...................................................... Managing Editor Allen Gartner ............................................................. News Editor Paul Andrews ....................................................... Facsimile Editor lllenry F~i11.. ............................................................. :Spo_rts Ed~tor 1 Alan Klem ....................................................... Contnbutmg Ed1tor Richard Kramer .............................................. Photography Editor JUNIOR BOARD Bruce Husten ....................................... Associate MaRaging Editor Larry Friedman ........................................... Assistant News Editor Michael Swirsky ............................... National Advertising Manager Jerry Levine ......................................... Local Advertising Manager Jeff BirR ....................................................... Subscription Manager Ed Jerome .................................................... .Distrubition Manager Lloyd Birns ......................................... Ass't Subscription Manager Andrew Crisses ....................................... Assistant Features Editor Spring Course Changes Changes in Spring Term Courses and the completion of course choices should be accomplished ,immediately in Room No. 2, Admittistration Building. Students are reminded that it is their responsibility to adjust original spring course choices, if changes in fall or winter courses affected spring courses. New Spring 'Ferm Course: Comp Ed. 32 · MODERN MAN IN CONTINENTAL FICTION Five continental novels (Stendhall, The Charterhouse of Parma; Flaubert, Madame Bovary,; Tolstoy, Anna Karenina,; Dostoevsky, The Brothers Karamazov; and Mann, The Magic Mountain) will be read for the light they throw 011 the twentieth-century mind.· Prof. Niemeyer Philosophy 89- SEMINAR IN PHILOSOPHY Reopened Comp Ed82 ·SEX, LITERATURE, AND CENSORSHIP Music 10· INTRODUCTION TO MUSIC (May not be taken for sophomore Comp Ed credit) Deleted Courses: French 32 -FRENCH LITERATURE AND SOCIETY German 42- GERMAN ROMANTICIS:M AND REALISM Spanish 40- SPANISH LITERATURE OF THE GOLDEN AGE For All Your Paint and Hardware ~eeds ~Cleaning Supplies See Us CAPITOL PAINT & HARDWARE COMPANY 1259-63 STATE ST. Phone FR 4-4123 DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal B-everages 118 • 12{) JAY STRfET ARE YOU SEEKING A BUSINESS CAREER? Then, Bell Telephone L abo raton es is interested in talking to you about exciting opportun1es in such Then, Bell Telephone Laboratories is Interested •n' talkmg to you about exc1t1ng opportuntttes •n such diverse activities as Personnel, Accounting, Public Relat1e>n·s and Publ1cat•ons, and Facilities Operot•ons. If you have a good scholastic record and wont a demond1ng. but rewording odmin•strallve poslt1on w1th one of the largest Research & Developme~t Organiz· ahons 1n the world. SEE HARRY GRAHAM who w.J\ v• Sit your Campus with the Be!\ System on Wednesday, January 29, 1969 Pos1tio\s ava•lable •n New Jersey and lli11101S. BELL TELEPHONE LABORATORIES Research & DeveLopment Unit of the Ben System An Equal Opportunity Employer 1 M F) Ep1stu ae A ;E 1forem An Apology To Shinagel To The Editor: Thursday night, into the offices of the caff\pus directors. The gentlemen listened to our grievances and copying down the complaints promised to act upon our suggestions. Before we left they asked us to tell anyone who has a complaint, to see them in their office which is located in the back of the Kitchen in West. As for our petition wit!J. demands for students being able to choose wllether or not th.ey want to buy a meal ticket fGr the spring term and not having to pay for breakfasts, we will give that to Dean Molloy. Don Bosch, '72 \ . ' AN ()PEN LETTER P.ROFESSOR KETZ TO l I •i ... To The Editor: At a recent meeting of the Freshman class you made several. allusions to the fact that if for 110 other reason, maintenance is .good because it gives the student an opportunity to take at leas\.' two showers a week. I imagine this was meant to imply that some students are not clean, an'\\ . \ therefore, not too healthy. • PAM P.rt B'Y In k Mounteb< ,masterpie public Memorial Frisch 1: about businessn more th; I have been away from Union for some time now, and have had during that period an opportunity to think seriously about my term as Editor-in-Chief ofConcordiensis. Looking back, I have come to regret one, and only one major decision that I made during that time and in that capacity. The decision Feferred to in valved t11e publication in Concordiensis of an anonymous letter addressed to the newspaper wltich contained a viscious and deplorable attack on the character ef Professor Michael Shinagel, Chairman of the English Department, in connection with the discussion at that time of a new grading system which Prof. Shinagel had advocated for adoption at Union. Ouzer, Andrews & La·w:ry To :pe,rfo'r;m At :North End1 Well, there is an old sayin~J \People in glass houses shouldn 'f i throw stones.\ And indeed yot ·' o b j e c t . I wish to publicly apologize (though belatedly) to Prof. Shinagel for being an accomplice in the attempted assassination ()f his character, and to Concordiensis aml the student body for this ugly, irresponsible action on my part while Editor. Sincerely, Richard Patterson Jr., '70 To The Editor: I joined Danny Shocket and George Lonsdorf in their hunger strike against Saga Food and as a result of this was invited. last Diana Lawry, fold guitaress from Skidmore, will headline performers at the North End coffeehouse beginning at 8 tonight in Bronner House, North College. Miss Lawry, who appeared at the North End once last year, plays a wide variety of folk music on six-string guitar. She specializes in songs recmded by Donavan and Judy Coll·ins. In addition to Miss Lawry, Paul Andrews and Bill Ouzer will combifle their multifaceted talents on fo1k guitar and folk clarinet. Andrews is a gifted guitarist, having received several presents on ltis last birthday. Ouzer will attempt. Also versatile in the field of writing, the two Concordy editors are preparing a book \How We Conquered Tone Deafness\ based on their musical RCA achievement. The two musician~ (sic) will be joined by Billl Dougherty, who will be featured on folk mouth. Dougherty, who does not include tone-deafnes:; among his conquests, has been speaking as an amateur since age three. DougheFty has recently appeared in Comp Ed ](};, French 30, and 252 Davidson. Since he will perform at the drop of a hat, customers are requested to leave all therr headware on the coat-racks supplied by the management. Hve in a glass house, because th( ,conditions existing in the gyfil are far from healthy. First, then: · are mice in the locker room, and if you don't believe me, try putting out a few traps ont night. Second, if you attempt to use the urinals in the gym from the months of October to Apr~. you might either catch pneumonia or your urine might freeze. Third, if you've ever taken a shower in the gym you,:' might find that while trying to l dry yourself your teeth begin to chatter and you know that it is inevitable that a cold will follow~ . ' The evening promises to be There are many other ,_o_n_e_o_f_c_o_n_t_ra_s_ts_. ______ -t unhealthy conditions in th~· Anyone interested in working at North College for Winter Weekend should contact Jolm Brown, lll South (346-9396). Get J;>aid for studying--one dollar an hour, no taxes taken out. gym. These are just a few of the more annoying ones. I hope some effort will be made to, correct this deplorable situation. Sincerely, Louis Liebhaber, '72 , Ct' l\ On Campus Interviews .• February 10 Engineering Rotational Programs or Direct Assignments BS and MS candidates in Engineering can talk to RCA, on campus, about our Engineering Rotational Programs, Manufacturing Management Development Program or Direct Assignments in the area of your skills. Openings are in Research, Design, Development, Manufacturing Engineering, Purchasing, or Materials Management. \ Computer Systems and Sales BS candidates in Engineering, Science, Business, or Liberal Arts a\'\cd MBA's can talk to RCA, on campus, about our Computer Systems and Sales Program. The Program consists of ten weeks of formal training at Cherry !1-lill, New Jersey that provides you with a !>road knowledge of the field of your choice, followed by a systems assignment at olle of our off.ices located throughowt the United States. See your placement officer to arrange an interview with the RCA Representative. Or write to RCA College Relations, Building 205-1, Cherry Hill, New Jersey 08101. We Are An Equal Opportunity Employer RCII ' I l ., i' ~I I \' •• \ \ ,. ! ''·· \' .. Q t· ,, ;, . ' . FlREJ Biederm~ l.AIJ 8 Lbs 4 lb. fo M --- Dov Let Au Nl· ~

TO• l I •i ... of the several. if for is student at leas\.' I imagine that clean, an'\\ . \ • ;pAGE 3 CONCORDIENSIS . . JANUARY 31, 1969 Mountebanks Performance Considered ''Masterpiece\ P.resent ''Fi:rebugs'' And nMan :Qf Dest·iny'' BY DOUG MEALY In keeping with the Mountebanks tradition, another .masterpiece was presented to the public last night in Nott Memorial. Firebugs by Max Frisch is a well-written play about a mil:d -manNered businessman who \dreads action more than disaster.\ Afraid to smooth-talking arsoHists into his house. Although he unconsciously suspects the outcome of their visit, he is unable to take a firm stand and evict the intntders. DeaN Hoffman, as Mr. firm woman of the house. The play is interesting not because of the trite plot about missing dispatches, but due to the interpretation of the roles by the four characters. sayin~, I •· shouldn 'f i yot th( ·'object, he a·dmits two Biederman, does a convincing and admirable job as the spineless businessman. His wife, played by Mary Hoffa, is perfectly cast as the quiet but A special mention goes to Andrew Anderson and Philip Larson as the two arsonists, who executed their roles perfectly. The quick scene cbanges were enhanced by the performance of Laura Miller, who did a superb job as a:n intennediary between the act()fS and the audience. Her drama~ic endiNg is a perfect· climax to an artistically-directed and :r :po.fessional.ly-executed play. Both plays were excellently directed by Michael D. RiLey and Philip C'. Rice. The Firebugs and The Man of Destiny a•re tw0 humorous aHd entertainiNg plays which must be seen to be appreciatea. They will be presented tonight and tomorrow night at 8:30 p.m. in Nott Memorial. The plays are well worth your t-ime. the gya1 then: · room, and me, try traps ont to gym from to Apr~. catch rine might ever,, you,) trying to begin to that it is follow~ other s in th~· few of the I hope made to, situation. Sincerely, '72 . Ct' l\ .• ' I ' ·t I •• .. Q • •• • ' . FIREBUGS: Dean Hoffman and Mary Hoffa, excellent as the Biedermans, hear foreboding news from Alan Cohen, a Ph. D. ZELLl\IER'S NORGE LAUNDRY AND ClEANING VILLAGE AT 1559 VANVRANKEN AVE. (at Hottie Street) D.RY CLEANING WASHERS 8 Lbs. --·-·-· ____ $2.00 12 lb.------------ .25 4lb. Min.-------- 1.00 20 lb.------------ .35 DRYERS 30 Lb. _. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .50 f 0 Min. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ . 1 0 OPEN- MON. TO FRI. 8:00A.M. TO 9:00P.M. SATURDAY 8:00A.M. TO 5 P.M. (CLOSED SUNDAYS! IF YOU HAVE NEVER HAD NORGE DRY CLEANING DONE WE CAN BET YOU WILL BE AMAZED Down to Louis', let us go, Let the lager freely flow. A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1 895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. NOW IN OUR lllth YEAR For reservations phone FR 4-8917 Traditional Natural Shoulder Clothing Jos8 Nusbaum, Inc. 447-451 State Street Our 61 st Year tn Downtown Schenectady The second presentation, The Man of Destiny is a George Bernard Shaw creation about General Napolean Bonaparte. FIRERUGS: Biederman is taken in by arsonist Sepp Schmitz, the wrestler, aptly portrayed by Andrew Anderson. MAN OF DESTINY: Napolean dispatches orders to his lieutenant as the Strange Lady looks on. Professionalism at Grumman ... is personal development programs As a graduating engineer, how can you position yourself so that your career chances are con- stantly optimized'? Answer-get with an aerospace company where the optimum conditions are ... Grumman. Here we take a keen interest in seeing that our engineers and scientists develop personally. We are sincerely interested in their personal progress within the company ... that they keep abreast of the sweeping advances in technology, not because they can contribute more (although this is true), but more because it makes for greater individual progress and well-being. Job satisfaction, if you will. Let's look at these personal development programs. Tuition Reimbursement Program Directly applicable to their work, these programs offer engineers and scientists financial assistance for graduate studies at the many institutions in the Long bland-New York area. In-Plant Courses Engineering courses, particularly those not available at neighboring institutions, to deepen technical knowledge to the specific needs of the engineering sections. College.Jndustry Courses Selective attendance for rapid technical updating on funda· mentals, theoretical methods and design information. (One to two weeks' duration.) Engineering Mast~rs Fellowship Program To enhance creative design capability, one-year fellowships, renewable for a second year, arc awarded to new engineering Bachelor of Science graduates and engineers with a year or more company service. The program combines t\\O days of graduate school study with thr~c days of in-plant engineering (in lixcd or rotating assignmcni~) aml cuv\\ P-':r,ncnt of full tuition, books, fees, a ~tipend, and a salary at cn)!inccring hourly rates for the hours worked. Professional Development Programs Lasting for 2 years, participants are given, in 4 six-months' terms, an exposure to Grumman operations which broadens their technical knowledge, ~harpens ability to make sound decisions, and raises their career potential. Separate programs serve individuals in Bu~iness Systems, Engineering and Manufacturing- Senior Engineers' Program Intended to overcome the threat of technological obso- lescence, individual disciplines are updated with regard to new scientific discoveries, new or expanded applications of long existing knowledge, and computer applications to prob- lem solving. Senior Management Development Selected individuals within Grumman junior and middle management groups are nominated to attend management development programs such as the MIT Executive Develop- ment Program, the Program for Management Development or the Advanced Management Program at Harvard University. Basic Principles of Supervisory Management A. ,,.rjpo; nf di<>cu,,ion .. e..-ion' provide a cour'e in manage· me11t principles to group lcauer' who ,how technical manage- ment ability. Here then is a real opportunity for graduating engineers in AE, CE. EE. ME. IE. Ph y~ics and Chemical Engineering ... to take their place in the continuum of te<:hnology that is Grlin1man. Grumman repre~entativcs will be ON CAMPUS If :an interview 1s not convenient at this time, send comprehensive resume to: Mr. Richard N. Haug, Adm1n1strator of College RelatiOns. Engineering Employment, Dept. GR·251 .. ·••··· GRUMMAN AIRCRAFT ENGINEERING CORPORATION . Bethpage • Long Island • New York, 11714 An Equal Opportun1ty Employer (M/f)

PAGE 4 \A computerhas no miRdof, its own. Its 'brainpower' comes f.ronthe people who create the programs,\ saysHod Campany. Rod earned a B.S. in Math i<n 1966. Today, he's an IBM Systems Prognmmer working on a portion of Operating Systern/360, a hierarchy of programs that;allows a computer to schedule and control nrost ofits own operations. A mixture of science and ar.t ''Programming\ means writing the instruc- tions that enable a computer to do its job. Says Rod, ''It's a mixture ef'science and art. You're a scientistin the sense that you have to analyze problems in a completely logical way. CONCORDIENSIS \Butyou don't necessarily hunt for an ulti- mate right answer. There can be as many solutions to a programmingprobl em as there are programmers. That's wheretheart comes in. Any given program may work,. but how well it works depends entirely on the ingenuity of the programmer.\ Programmers hold a key position in the country's fastest growing major industry- information processing. Business Week re- ports·that the computer market is expar:~ding about 20 percent a year. You don't need a technical degree lfyoru canth,ink logicaHy and I ike to sol'le problems, you could become an IBM p n:>- Programm,ing at IBM \·It's a chan:ce ON CAMPUS FEB. 5,6 lo use everything you've got!' grammer no matterwhatyourmajor. We'll start yol!l of,f with up to twenty-six weeksof classroom and practical training. Check with. your placement office If you'lfe int,erested in programming at I BI'Vl, JANUARY 31., 1969 ask your placement ofHce for more ·infor,mation. Or send a resume or :Jetter to Paul Koslow, IBM Corporation, Dept. C, 425 Park AveAue, New York, New York 10022. We'd J,iketohear frorn you even if you're headed forgradl!late school ormil:itary service. An EquaJ·Opportunity 'employer • • • • • J Pn Da \I am' the facult: submit m' I • to tfle Fa copy of i there will followed · plenty of So saic program : discussed, the studer Coach want out done a gc area he ••probabl) he contin to, which you fit a should b' .coaches d The st1 but do n< responsib keep ph~ requested attendanc educatior requiremc They should b1 had OV< dissatisfa, the petit responsiv past. The I Coach B1 that nee' irrespons program. As it D R v~ c 204 / $J 1\ Da\·id How /l Buy y< Grauhf ] ay St Serv1111 ~ M

1969 t! .J I i ,I ... f' • • '!r • J JANUARY 31, 1969 CONCORDIENSIS PAGE 5 Professor, Student Examine Pros And Cons Of Maintena;nce Dan Slwcket. . . . . • Prof. Foster \I am committed to giving a report to the Faculty council and to the faculty, which I will do at the coming meeting. On Feb. 4 I will suomit my report to the President for duplication, it then goes out to tl\e Faculty Council, and I am sure the Concordiensis will get a copy of it. And, there will be fivisional meetings on Feb. 13, and there will be a faculty council to discuss the report on Feb. 18, followed by a faculty meetiflg on Feb. 27. I assume there Will be plenty of opportunity to discuss the report prior to those meetings.\ So said Prof. Ketz when asked to evaiuate the maintenance program yesterday. Before the report is released and its findings discussed, we should discuss the maintenance program's .effect on the student body, and what the desired effects should be. Coach Coleman said, \I believe maintenance fulfills its goals. We want out st1:1dent exercising a couple of times a week ... basically it's done a good job. It allows a student the freedom to work within the area he most enjoys.\ Coach Schmidt feels it is designed to \probably maintain a minimum standard of physical fitness.\ But, he continues, \meeting twice a week, and doing anything you want to, which is JJOW the requirement, in my mind doesn't rea:Jly keep you fit at all.\ He continued that he felt a certain requirement should be met. Coach Schmidt was in the minority; the other coaches defended the maintenance system. The students, and some of the faculty, agree with Coach Schmidt, but do not agree with his solution. Their contention is that student responsibility should be extended to their \dubious obligation\ to keep physically fit. Two petitions in the past two years have requested that the maintenance program be put on a voluntary attendance basis. They point out that a passing grade in ;physical education is necessary to graduate. They feel this is a ridiculous requirement. They feel the self determination given to the students parietals should be extended to the maintenance program. Each petition has had over 700 signatures, representing widespread student dissatisfaction. Only two members of the Phys. Ed. admits to seeing the petitions. The students hope the administration will be as responsive to their demands as the administration has been in the past. The Phys. Ed. department opposes a voluntary maintenance. Coach Brown sums it up for them all when he said, \I think the ones that need it most won't show up.\ He also added that student irresponsibility has marred the effectiveness of the maintenance program. As it stands now, a Union to attend two \I think the students have a good thing going for them the way the physical education program is set up.\ By MICHAEL J. FOSfER (Editor's Note: The writeJ, Michael J. FO.ster, is an Instructor in Philosophy.) Now that centralized parietal rules have been successfully quashed the next target of student powe:r seems to be the mles governing what .is called \maintenance' 'Titis latest development might at first appear to lend some truth. tot he old adage that sex and athletics don't mix. Plato remarks in the Republic that you can't expect young men to be interested in kee,p ing fit when they spend their time with Corinthian girl-friends. But perhaps iH this case appearances are deceptive. Rather than believe that the students' demand for more liberalized maintenance fUles is part of the progJessive degeneration of youth we sh<mld view it as their willingness to take on one more burden of responsibility. In this most recent instance it does seem hard to 1ugue with them. For if a young man can be trusted to take care of his sexual conduct it seems quite natural to conclude that he ought also to have the responsibility of keeping himself in shape. And so I would say let him have that responsibility while first apprising him of the impmtance attached to it. Evidently it is this last point which remains as the nub of the prblem. How is the student to be persaaded of the desirability of keeping himself physically fit? For under the present maintenance system, as far as I have been able to ascertain, it is the student's fesponsibility to take the necessary steps t<J keep himself in shape; he need only desire to do so. What the College does is require that he put in a twice-weekly appearance at the gym and only that. Unfortunately this means that the college is requiring each student to do something which in itself is neither physically beneficial, nor educative, nor even fun (except per accidens). l can remember that when 1 was an undergraduate I was required to take courses in physiclil education. For the most part th.ese were at least fun while some attempt was made to instruct us in tile ·fine points of boxing, wresVling, tennis, gymnastics, etc. (I would never have dreamed of complaining about these compulsory classes. Of course at that time I would never have dreamed of complaining a \bout the rules forbidding women in my room either.) My final saggestion would be that the college either establish organized and required physical education courses or allow the student to decide f<Jr himself whether and where he wants to go to pot. •'f}i';~who:~~;~t to can use the facilities all the time; those that don't want to, well, I guess they're not going to do it anyway.\ . Coach Schmidt DAR I TREET RESTAURANT VIP LOUNGE YOUR CHOICE ANNOUNCES CHAR-BROIL STEAK SOUR HOUR VEAL CUTLET CHICKEN ... $ 1.65 2049 Van Vranken Ave. FR 7-4261 WEDNESDAYS Now's & The FRIDAYS Time 4-6 To MARRY ME BEHII\ID LADDS Da\·id and Jt;llt> ha\'~ done tt. How About You. Tricky Dickie· Buy your Weddtng Ring at Mourtce Grauhil,t·t & Sons. JcwelPrs, 1 l66 Jay St .• COLLEGE STREET Servtng Union for 3 generations. Mother Ferro's Restaurant Specializing in Italian - Americon Food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking Dl 6-9554 1115 Barr.ett St. ' Make America a better place. Of all the ways Am~rica can grow, one way is by You could be theoulStdcrwho helps bring a By 1!180, 200,900 Peace Corps alumm Will learniog from others. • jammcan fishwg VIllage to life, for the fir~t time be living their lives In every p01rt of Ametlca. There arc things you caulcam in the Peace in t!uce hundred years. And you could wonder U Then~ arcthoscwholhink you can't change Corps you can't learn anywhere else. your couttfry has outsiders enough. In Watts. In the world in the Peace Corps. You could start nn irriRallon program. !\nd Dctroit.ln Appalacl1ia.On ils Indian reservations. On the otharhand, maybc It's not just what find that crabgra!>S and frort lawns look a llllle Last year, for the hrst time, Peace Corps you <loin the Pe~ceCorps that counts. rldicuiO!IS. Wl1e~ there isn't enough wheat tn go alumni Olllnumbercd Volunteers \VIm are now out But what you do when you get back. 1 r~~ around In Nepal. at work overseas. The Peace Corps, Washington, D.C. 20525.~ HOLYCROSS BOSTON COLLEGE Be suretowatchthis exciting game-telelfised live and in color. And while you're enjoying the action, enjoy bright, rewarding Schaefer -the one beer to have when you're having more than one. LIVE& IN COLOR -2:00PM -IIVTEN·TVCH 10

PAGE 6 Hoop Here Tonight Concordy Sports Sw.im, Mats Tomorrow JANUARY 31, 1969 •) \-~' Grapplers Fall To Colgate For First Loss .r·····-······················;········- 1 THE FEIN tiNE 1 I . by HENRY FEIN J ] t( VOL9: BY STU MOSS Despite losing two starters a few days prior to the match, Union's varsity wrestling team gave an outs tan dig effort succumbing to Colgate 17-14 Tuesday afternoon. The loss was the first for the Garnet this season after four wins and stopped their consecutive winning streak at fourteen matches. Munno, Knetzer Win Bill Munno started matters off right by winning a decision in the 123 lb. class over highly rated Steve Schrieber. Frank D'Antuono and Larry Stevens both lost at 130 and 137 respectively. Although Tom Tripp could not wrestle due to a shoulder injury. he was awarded a vktory a 1 145 when Colgate forfeited. Jeff Knetzer looked impressive in taking a decision in the 152 lb. class. Bart Gale, replacing the injured Rosener, gave away fifteen lbs. in losing to his 160 lb. opponent. The next two matches were split by decisions with Naysim Simon winning at 167 and Brian Crandall losing at 177. This made the score 14-12 in favor of Union with only the heavyweight division remaining. However, Colgate achieved the only pin of the match when Jim Locke nailed both Pete Kenyon and the Dutchmen at 3:45. Union faces anoth tough opponent tomorrow when the matmen host the Mariners from Kings Point. The match which begins at 2:30 in the Alimni Gym, hopes to be the flrst of another long winning streak. Rugby Anyone interested in playing Rugby this spring must attend a meeting Monday at 7:30p.m. in SS 016. This includes members as well as anyone else. .. · .. ·.:~ . ,. .......................................... ·. For the first weekend since September, aU of the Garnet teams will be in action at home. Interestingly enough, all this sports activity will greatly overshadow Winter Weekend, when only the .. , swimming meet against KiBgs Pornt is on the home calendar. Each year, either the Basketball team or the Lacrosse squad makes the long trek to the north country to face Clarkson and St. Lawrence. The contests are scheduled over a single weekend to , eliminate a second long bus ride. Unfortunately, the hoopsters turn comes up in two weeks, and the varsity squad wiH be up north for our Winter Weekend. Tonight, the cagers return to action .for the first time in a week to 1 face greatly improved Middlebury. Both the varsity and frosh have lost three straight after eN.couraging opening months, and victories ~- tonight would indeed be \key.\ The fwsh square off in the -~~·:~_,...'%:J Fieldhouse at 6:15, and th;wv~s!Z/~:::st gets under way at 8:00. ' Tomorrow afternoon in the Alumni Gym, the mermen and the ' 1 wrestlers simultaneously face tough opponents. Upstairs on the · ' mats, the grapplers will attempt to start a new win streak against a ·· ·' new opponent, Kings Point. In the pool, Coach Benson's swimmers Al DeJong of Colgate eludes Jeff Knetzer's attempt for the pin in their 152-lb. match Tuesday. will try to do what no Garnet squad has ever done: defeat Williams College in swimming. In the series dating back to 1933, the ' Dutchmen stand at the very short end of a 0-30-1 record. Knetzer won by decision, but the Red Raiders snapped a 14-match Garnet win streak, 17-14. : . ' \' . ~ . ' \ ' ' HOCJ'R .STATISTICS ·,· . . . . - . ) • ' . •• • ' ' • l - Player G FG FGA PCT. FT FTA PC'T. RB PTS AVG. S~! Neidel 1 3 Ill 226 .492 54 69 .784 137 276 21.2 Boehmke 13 56 Ill .505 32 52 .615 147 144 11.2 Mumford 1 3 57 164 .347 22 37 .594 46 136 10.5 Getman 12 47 131 .359 19 32 .594 71 113 9.4 Shames 13 39 105 .372 14 24 .583 28 92 7.1 Katzman 10 21 62 .339 13 25 .520 19 55 5.5 ritzgcra1d 5 7 19 .369 12 14 .856 10 26 5.2 Jacobs 11 7 20 .350 3 9 .333 19 17 1.5 Vergith 4 3 .333 4 5 .800 2 6 1.5 Every streak must come to an end, but the 17 -14loss to Colgate by the wrestlers was especially heartbrealdng. Had the Garnet won, ) they would have tied a Union record for most consecutive wins dating back to 1918. Over the 1917-18 and early 1918-19 seasons, the hoopsters won fifteen straight games; no group of Dutchmen in any sport has ever equalized that mark. Furthermore, the Colgate loss marks the second time in three years that the Red Raiders have beaten the Garnet with both defeats coming here in the gym. Traditionally, the Dutchmen have squared off against Colgate in the final match of the season, and in both the 1967 and 1968 seasons the match determined an undefeated season for the Garnet. DAYS ) ( ERIC A Ensembl Friday e The Satt sale fron With Spaulding 3 3 .333 2 2 1.000 0 4 1.3 DOLLAR ·• 1'\ assistancE Palen 5 0 2 .000 0 Others 19 58 16 Tean1 R. U. Total 366 906 .404 193 Opp. Total 394 938 .421 223 2 .000 3 26 67 95 299 .645 644 329 .678 652 0 54 925 1011 0.0 71.2 77.8 Mon. -Tues. York Ph of Anthc Wilson p CagersFace 6-6 Panthers • ··for keyb nothing pro grain artistic It and mus. than c complete musical1 C major in F mi Poulenc organ al completE BY GARY PREVOST The Garnet hoopsters, having fallen to 5-8, entertain Middlebury tonight at 8:00 in what Coach Schmid has termed a \must\ game. The Frosh will attempt to snap a three-game losing streak in a 6: 15 prelim against the Panther yearlings. Middlebury comes to Schenectady with a 6-6 record, a far better Panther team than the last two seasons' squads, who lost 44 of 46 games. A year ago, the Garnet escaped with a 65-64 win on the Panthers' home court. The Dutchmen claim a nine-year win streak, having last fallen to Middlebury in the 1959-60 season. Won Four Straight The Panthers are currently riding a four-game win streak that began with a win at MIT. Following that viet ory, the Middlebury five topped Norwich (71-56, St. Michael's (60-59), and the Coast Guard Academy (78-56). The Panthers had lost six of their first eight games, beating only Trinity (81· 76) and East Stroudsburg, the latter victory coming in the Pocono Classic by the score of 75-71. The losses came at the hands of Vermont, Amherst (92-65), St. Michaels (57-56), Babson (97-77), Muhlenberg (104-72) and King's {84-59). In the way of common opponents, both the Garnet and the Panthers have beaten Norwich while losing to Amherst, although Un.ion lost to the latter by oniy three points. Middlebury features a balanced attack led by 6-3 senior center Eugene Oliver. A really strong jumper, Oliver is averaging 11.2 points per game and pulling down 10.3 rebounds. He has been scoring more of late, hitting for 75 points in the four-game win streak. The other four straters are averaging just under ten points per game each. The forwards are 6-5 sophomore Jim Keyes and 6-3 senior Rick Minton. Sophomores Lee Cartmill and Jon Torrent, both six-footers, are the likely starters at guard. Tonight's contest and next Wednesday's encounter with Trinity are \musr' games if the · Garnet are to achieve a winning season. Following these two encounters, the Garnet should be able to beat their next three opponents: Stevens, St. Lawrence, and Clarkson. Against Middlebury, the Dutchmen need to control the boards more effectively than they have in recent games. The hoopsters have looked sloppy at times in their three most recent defeats, especially against Kings Point, and need to get a more solid shooting and ball handling game from the backcourt to claim victory tonight. SWAN CLEANERS & SENECA LAUNDRY PICK UP AND DELIVERY SERVICE For Dry Cleaning Shirts & Sack Laundry See your Campus Representatives in every dorm and fraternity SUNDAY NIGHT Quality Service and Quick Delivery 1/2 PRICE Suits Sportcoats Slacks 0 uterwear Sweaters Shirts Jeans Thurs. till 9 . MOVING SOON TO 420 STATE ST. m~r $jqHJ£¥sT!b.!!P ~. ! f . ~. ' : i ~~~ ~·· i I '# );j ' •'J '1(;\ _i, Begin was wise that son and that rarely pt the Hay< moderat1 consider: and gavE interest probabl) playing. · free a moveme largo wa good b organ. T little p1 framewc in Memc the Ha• aware ol surroun< perform bright listener chan gin! accentec In tb Wilson vast r perform knowin! and clu sense c phrasir encoura were pn tricky I control. movem

