the \';f( ·• ·~ .. )· 1 .. much i Neil '.· figures ·• . work,,. And · is '(;1 j.USt : 1 · t she is . it ?#.· ] which 1 ;1 i .. · for 40 ~· and \\'.1· I' ~.tr· f I embers · and ~ ·~r-. is { Soun~ J;~: . of ~~f'\ plonng · 100 ,,~,. grew a ~~ . Mim li stated, 111.~ 1 • life All p way, >~~~ . There I swim '•lt~l· U.B. r Clayt as ·,) Founded al Union College 1877 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, SEPTEMBER 30, 1969 PRICE TWENTY CENTS VOL. 99, NO.6 Holmes To Contribute To Pre-Colonial History Of Lal{e Victoria Tribes Board Plans 1970 Campaign By STEVE LEVY Asserting that \'it is time qualified candidates stepped forward and helped eliminate violence and the drift and discord that has been growirlg irl the United States for the past several years,\ Prof. Joseph B. Board, Jr., The University College of Dares Salaam, Tanfonia has requested Charles Holmes, assistant professor at Union, to contribute to a composite history of the Lake Victoria State Systems of Tanzania during the pre-Colonial era. Holmes, who recently completed his doctoral work at Boston University, spent two years in Tanzania at Nsumba Secondary School as a lecturer in African history. During this time he did field research on the southern shore of Lake Victoria. His research involved recording the oral history of a clan grouping within the largest tribe in Tanzania, datirlg from earliest times to 1945, and includirlg both pre-colonial and post colonial events. Seeking Elders Holmes methodology of oral history involved seeking out the elders in the community who were responsible for \remember- ing\ and interviewing them. By piecing together various accounts he synthesized a history of the clan. Archeological investigation is the only alternative for gathering information dealing with pre-colonial history. as well as an expansion of ,the viewpoint set forth in his thesis. He will travel to Tanzania this summer, and will also receive aid during the year from students at University College of Dar es Salaam. Holmes hopes to lay the ground work this summer in Dar es Salaam for a future oral history project dealing with a Lake Victoria Kingdom. Financed By UNESCO The University College project is financed by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, (UNESCO). The composite history will be edited by Dr. I. K. Katoke of the Department of History at University College of Dar es Salaam. Katoke is a recent graduate of Boston University's doctoral program in African studies. Holmes, a member of the American Historical Society, joined the Union faculty last spring. In addition to offering courses in African history he conducts a Comp Ed junior project entitled \The Black American in Search of I demity: the Case of Schenectady,\ JOSEPH B. BOARD, JR. Last Male Class Largest chairman of the Department of Political Science, recently announced that he is seeking the 1970 democratic nomination for congressman from this district. Board recently sent letters to all Democratic Town and ward chairmen in Schenectady county notifying them of his interest irl the nomination and his desire to meet with them to seek their advice and solicit support. The Republican candidate irl next years' election is expected to be incumbent congressman Daniel Button (R~Albany ). Button was elected to his second two-year term in 1968. \Challenging Period\ Recalling the late President Kennedy's characterization of himself as a \idealist without illusions\ Board said he hoped to offer ''compassion with competence\ in providirlg leadership in the struggle against the country's problems in what he called \this most challenging period since the Civil War\ . Scoring the credibility gap between . the generations and pledging himself to \fight public hypocrisy wherever it rears its ugly head\ -Board said he was particularly irlterested irl endirlg the war in Vietnam, preventing an over-extended foreign policy, healing racial divisions, and helping to solve the problems of metropolitan areas. He also cited the rising taxes and inflation, environmental pollution, direct election of the president, and increased protection for the aged as vital issues. Much Support Board said that he had received many indications of support from local people, some -of whom he did not know personally. Some of those who expressed support were Republicans. Prof. Board, 38 years old, has a Ph. D. in Government from Indiana University, a Law degree from that University's Law School, and a Master's degree in Jurisprudence from Oxford University, where he was a Rhodes Scholar. His fields of study irlclude comparative government, international relations, and political theory. He has previously taught at Indiana University, Elmira College and Cornell College before coming to Union in 1965 as Professor of Political Science and Chairman of the Department in 1965. Last year, he was a Fulbright Lecturer to Sweden. '{ The work for the composite history will be a marshalling and reorganization of what Holmes has already collected Enrollment at Union College reached a record high this year as 1,635 students arrived on campus for the Fall semester which began last Thursday. This marks the first time in the college's 175-year history that emollrnent will exceed the 1 ,600 mark. The previous record was set last year when 1,521 students enrolled, the first time student population had topped 1 ,500. Three Concerts Accent Varied Social S(hedule .. ,ln parb & d station 'I list. rl lf.lt aur in· ',· . orld wide. 5 .68 1.45 1.75 1.69 pric· over $10. to II ), IJ ~· Vienna Applications Due by DAVID J. UGUCCIONI Professor Fredrick Klemm, similar programs for French chairman of the language and Spanish students. Right department, is now accepting now there are thirty Union applications for Union's students in the French towns \Fruhling in Wien\ program. of Angers, Caen, and The program consists of Besancon. Orientation for the study in Vienna during the group leaving for Bogota, spring term and fullfills the Co 1 u m b ia is now being Junior year Comprehensive carried out. Education requirement. Besides the studies features of last year's program included, tours, trips, concerts, plays and the art of the city. Vienna's \Festival Weeks\ which was put on during the group's stay, attracted irlternational artists includirlg Leonard Bernstein and George Szell. Opportunities for travel, work, or continued study in Europe during the summer were also available, although not provided by the program. Besides the \Fruhling in Wien\ program, the language department at Unioil .affers Three Courses Students in the program will take three courses: history or Art, German, and an independant study course. The entrance requirement is the completing of a thirty level course in German. The cost for the program is the same as that of a term at Union; Scholarships and loans both apply. Applications are due on Friday, October 3. Underclassmen interested in Future \Fruhling in Wien\ should also contact Professor Klemm. The freshman class--the Class of 1973--will also set a record high, with 505 students emolled, up from last year's 432, the previous record. Last All-Male The Class of '7 3 will also be the last all-male freshman group. Next year, the Freshman Class will include about 100 women. Union's trustees voted last spring to make the college .coeducational, beginnirlg in. 1970. As in previous years, New York State accounts for the largest part of the enterirlg class, some 64 per cent. Massachusetts ranks second with slightly more than 13 Continued on page 3 \The Youngbloods\ Tom Paxton, and \The Flock\ highlight the fall term social schedule, which also mcludes a Carnival Weekend and a Halloween Ball. Carnival Weekend, including a WRUC Block Party plus booths and games sponsored by fraternities and living units around campus, will take place Oct. 3-4. Two fllms round out the schedule, with \The Lodger\ (Hitchcock) Friday night, and \Tom Jones\ Saturday. Homecoming Weekend follows directly on Oct. 10-12, with \The Y oungbloods\ at Memorial Chapel Saturday nighL Other events include a Hitchcock Film, a Marx Brothers film, football vs. Rochester, and an organ recital by Hugh Allen Wilson. Three weeks later comes the \First Annual Off Weekend.\ Tom Paxton will appear Saturday night at the Chapel, preceded by a.Friday night WRUC Halloween Ball in the gym. \The Professionals\ will be shown three times Sunday. Fall Weekend is scheduled for Nov. 13-16. \The Flock,\ s u p e r b m u s i c a ns but relatively unknown, like th~; N.Y. Rock and Roll Ensemble, will appear in the Chapel Saturday night, after football vs Hamilton. 'The Mountebanks will perform \Saved\ Thursday and Friday nights at Nott Memorial, while films will include \Notorious\ on Friday night and \Elvira Madigan\ all day Sunday. The program has been arranged by the Social Committee of the Student Senate, in conjunction with WRUC, Film Haps, Union College Film Series, and the Mountebanks.

' i I· .tl \ I I ' ',. t; SEPTEMBER 30, 196~1 · PAGE 2 Orientation: A Frosh View . JO 0 80'1 MEfTS 6lRL- (AI\)lON S\YLE President Harold Martin will follow up his morning convocation appearance with an informal question and answer session in the Davidson Lounge at 8:00PM. All are cordially invited. On Sunday, Septemben 21 , the five hundred and five members of the Union ·class of 1 97 3 were brol!ght together for the fast time from every corner of New York State as well as from outlying areas of the W(Rld. Orientation, a curious custom at best, was officially begun that evening in Mem()rial Chapel when the class was welcomed by Ross Fraser, the student chairman, as well as by Dean Malloy. FoR oWing these brief but important introductions, the class was treated to the humor of Mr. Johathan Pearson, a very funny fellow who also happens to be Director of Admissions. His highly enlightening speech filled in the gaps that the catalogue had missed and also attempted to trace thr()ugh college history, the basiS for the supreme intellectual seriousness which exists today. The rest of the evening was taken up by discussions on the student's role in change at Union, let by Messers Buzak, Furlong and Rundell. Basically, they felt that things could be and have been changed, and it wasn't necessary to occupy the President's office, and perhaps steal some of his relics. The student senate and All College Council didn't sound too badly bureaucratic until the leaders tried to explain the Committee on Committees and only became hop e 1 e ss 1 y con fu sed themselves. Monday was devoted to College Gets S & H Grant Union College has received a $1 ,900 lectureship grant from The S & H Foundation, Inc. The money will be used to support two colloquies studying the relationship between civil liberties and the American legal system, according to Dr. Charles S. Olton, Director of Comprehensive Education at \Those who make peaceful revolution impossible make violent revolution inevitable.\ ~io'· :;s_.:; .... ~ \t alonror ~\~~ htrnsi!l ~~k-J.~ Published Tuesday and Friday during the Union College academic year by the Student Body o £ Union College, Schenectady, New York Published Thursdays during the Upward Bound Project by Upward Bound students in reside?ce at Union College. National Advertising Representative: National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative. 360 Lexington Avenue, N.Y.C. Edite>rial Office. Old Gym Union College. Publicatio~ Office, Whitehurst Printing & Binding Co., Inc., 416-418 Fifth Ave., Troy, 235-441>0. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20c a copy; $6 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. NEIL S. KRAMER Editor-in-Chief HENRY FEIN ............. _ ...... . Managing Editor CARL GOLDSAND ............... Business Manager RICHARD E. PATTERSON JR. .......... News Editor WILLIAM OUZER ................ Executive Editor PETER WEINGOLD ................ Features Editor BILL HOLLERAN ................... Sports Editor JODY SASLOW ................ Photography Editor the coHege. Union College won the grant in competition with more than 226 other sclwols. The S & H Foundation is sponsored by The Sperry and Hut chins on Company distributors of S & H Gree~ Stamps. The grant is ene of 39 that were made this year to colleges and universities throughout the country, Charles S. Benningtoll, S & H district manager who will present the check to Dr. Olton, said: \The purpose of the Foundation's program is twofold: to place students and faculty in direct and informal contact with visiting speakers and to strengthen the influence of Union College in the community by opening the lectures to the pub He.\ The lectureship program, part of the S & H Foun~ation's regular program of md to education, has awarded 329 grants to 277 schools over the past nine years. Other.aid to education programs include national scholarships, grants to educational institutions, 4-H s.ch olarships, matching contributions, merchant s ~ h.o 1 ~ r ships •. _f o o d distnbut10n scholarships, and scholarships for children of S & H employees. By JON HARRIGAN what were termed informal discussions. To those attending, they proved highly profitable. In the afternoon, many managed .to slip away to the banks to deposit their fortunes so they would be able to witlldraw their fortunes Tuesday morning. Monday evening, Mr. Bryant Rollins, a writer, teacher and political activist spoke on the rhetoric of revolution back in the Memorial Chapel which is a njce place to visit, but one had the inescapable feeling of living there. Mr. Rollins took the black separatist viewpoint which although unconvincing was nevertheless worth hearing and attempting to fathom. Tuesday seemed an interminable ordeal of waiting in lines as registration got underway. The long ordeal was made wothwhile, however, when one reached that special table where the freshman gift packs were handed out, compliments of Mr. Fraser and the orientation committee. I would also like to thank that sweet young miss who refused my check for eleven thousand dollars as it had been written under the duress of a four hour diet of cigarettes and stale air. Wednesday, the show went on, as quaint campus tours were conducted which were much more informative than those which ·~.b.e admissions office conducted last fall. Later in the day, everyone had the opportunity of meeting Dr. and Mrs. Martin and Dean and Mrs. Malloy at a reception in the President's yard. I've never chatted with FERRO PHARMACY 575 Nott Street Schenectady, N. Y. FR 7-0510 FOUNTAIN SERVICE Dist a President before, oh well ... After dinner and Ross, they were synonomous by 1 this time, the class was officially presented in the Memorial Chapel by P·resident ''A· young MartiR and Mr. Pearson. of A Following that, orientation 't fine was concluded by Dean the mm1 Malloy and, you guessed it, -~!·not quite Ross. r roblem is I The end result was that did find A everyone was looking forward killed him. to the start of classes, which ~ ''Easy 1 may have been the purpose of Peter Fonc the whole thing anyway. ·Hopper is On the whole, the , · beautiful orientation period was well ' realization o run, if not well conceived. (and some c A c quaint an c e s and good) with friendships have been rapidly ..,;. ' Generatiot made and this was surely one doesn't sen of the goals. Actually, this but it doeE was unavoidable, because if such as wl you stand on line next to a 1?f.tj· · ~ ..•. settles dowr kid for forty-five minutes rural farm before every meal, you're JMid-West a bound to start talking. The , , ;~ your own 1 orientation period actually ~time. You 0 . : extended through the weekend as the freshmen, ,,IJ Fonda : with the help of a couple of f~ the long 1 mixers, proved that they can . ·1 and drugs acclimate themselves to any them ar situation. In summary, it is ·· \clean-cu apparent after the first week ·t~~ boy\. Yet that the Union class of '73 ] ) feel that w will more than fill the Union > of their c tradition. l·J- America; · Repre WELCOME BACK! Moffett's Liquor Store (next to the Mohawk Bank) Open Till 10 'rls;;d rrt \ I Cnderl· ' task~ ti 1 goveriimeJ ,.· i this year I making i which wa .t~· work. Al1 ~:::::::::::::=::::::====~ 1 . to be a lc I i Constitut DIAMANTE'S - ,1 the new~ -~~~:~ operatior Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott Street l .' weeks a: times. · period ~· ~ showed ~ potential · that it w: '\'~t.· The ·)'l\'. designed Open Daily 10 to 1 A.M. e !l c h One block from Brownell 5 d 5 p M ( commun • ·p====G=a=t=e====::~::u::n::;a:::y::s~==· =·=to~l~A=.M~.d ·(~.'\ of the 1 . because · · · - ·· would b or in the Stereo Sound Enr Nowln New Headquarters 169 Jay St. 374-5367 Continu per cen· 24 stat • countric Am< freshm~ Union~ Put prepare of the cent o from 1 parent~ l On EX;. a r Schola freshrr: scores mathe cent , gradm of the

l ·sfPTEMBER 30, 1969 Hooper's \Easy Rider\ Discovers Real Americans ''A young man went in ttson. of America. But he ation find it anywhere,\ Dean the movie's ads. That's }d it, (:'!.not quite accurate. The that rward .vhich ~ )Se of .the , well ' eived. and tpidly ...,;. ' lyone ' this jproblem is precisely that he did find America, and it killed him . ''Easy Rider\ starring Peter Fonda and Dennis · Hopper is a subtle and beautiful plea for the realization of aU that is good (and some of what is not so good) with the \Woodstock Generation\. The movie doesn't scream its message, but it does bring it across, such as when Peter Fonda 11se if t to a inutes rou're ;. The :tually 1'i\· ~ settles down to dinner with a j rural farm family in the ,~Mid-West and says \you do ., ;~ your own thing in your own Clean Cut? ~ time. You should be proud.\ By RICHARD E. PATTERSON, JR. the hmen, pie of ~y can o any , it is ;./, Fonda and Hopper have r.t~ the long hair, motorcycles, ·J· and drugs that clearly set them apart from the The \Real America\ rears its head. week >f '73 Union ·¥}~ \clean-cut All-American the hostility they encounter, ~ ~ boy\. Yet one can not help asks why it is that people are ! ) feel that whatever they think so afraid of him. George, an l\11-> of th~ir country, they love alcoholic ACLU lawyer, Hf Amenca; explains that people are not ~ ' . Represents Freedom afraid of him, but of what he ~~ I . 1 Hopper, disheartened by, represents. \What you . ' ')Student Senate Sets Vote . 1 By WALT SPENCER \' ft'' ' tasks that the Student 1 • government should undertake .. ,. C:nderlying all the other Bank) ' '1 this year is the challenge of making the Constitution , which was adopted last year Nt· work. Although it may seem ==:;! 1 . to be a long time ago that the I I Constitution was adopted, ; . cc~ the new student senate was in .,f.~ operation for only eight me n Our Room :;ate ! '' weeks and met only four times. During this brief period the new system \' ~ showed that it had the f potential to do the things · that it was designed to do. ·~~·' The new system was ·\' designed to make it easy for A.M. ). ~ e !l c h individual to · (' communicate with a member A.M. ~(n;, of the student government, 1 'i because a student senator ·· would be living on the floor or in the fraternity. The catch J} Enrollment Up Continued from page 1 per cent. The rest come from 24 states and three foreign countries. Among the entering freshmen are some 35 sons of Union alumni. CEEB Scores Pub lie high schools prepared about three-fourths of the Class of 1973; 45 per cent of the freshmen come from homes in which both parents attended college. • On the College Entrance E x..a m i n a t i o n B oar d Scholastic Aptitude Tests, the freshmen recorded average scores of 598 verbal and 659 mathematical. Some 75 per cent of the freshmen were graduated in the top one-f\tfth of their high school classes. in the system is that if your student senator doesn't attent the meetings of the Senate, he will not be able to keep you posted. Likewise, if your student senator doesn't know the opw1on of his constituents, he will not be able to represent your wishes adequately. Communication is a two way flow. It is obvious that the student senator is the pivotal point in this communication line. Thus, student senate elections take on an added importance. These elections are scheduled, according to the Constitution, for October 7. The votes will be taken in the living units. Petitions for off campus senators may be obtained in the Student Activities Office starting October 3 rd. Under the Constitution each petition must be signed by 1 5 people and returned October 6th to the Student Activities Office, in order to assure the person of a place on the ballot. Off campus elections will be conducted in the Library from 12 noon to 11 PM on October 7. Another form of communication is communic.ation between students and student body officers. The student body officers are eager to talk to you and work with you to improve student life at Union. Names and addresses are as follows: Student Body President-Don Kessler-Phi Sigma Delat, Student Body Vice-President-Walter Spencer - 102 South College, Student Body Secretary-John Castellani-Beta Theta Pi. represent to these people is freedom, and its hard to talk freedom to people who are bought and sold daily in the market place.\ Not Easy \Easy Rider\ is not an easy movie to take. It throws too many things too sharply into contrast, points up too many contradicitons and weaknesses about thecountry. Fonda celebrates with a Flag painted on his gas tank, crash helmet, and leather jacket. But it fails in its attempt to equate freedom with the blank stares ir1 the eyes of the two young men every time they get stoned. But \Easy Rider\ is certainly one of the year's f\mest movies. It says simply in the words of one of its characters: \This used to be a helluva good country. I can't understand what happened to it.\ BLITHER There will be an organizational meeting of The Union Book tonight in the music room of the library. All those interested in working on The Book for the coming year should attend. There will be a meeting of all Orientation Counselors on Wednesday, October 1, at 8 P.M. in SS l15. All students interested in working on the Social Committee should meet in SS 014 on Thursday, October 2, at 7:30P.M. Acme Barber Shop 2 Experienced Barbers 509 Union Street Near Jay Street Schenectady, N.Y. 393-4711 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30: Student Wives' Meeting, H.H.S.L., 7:30PM. President's Open Forum, Davidson Lounge, 8:00 PM. MOVIE:. \Last Summer\ · Deep and unsettling look at the growing-up of four teenagers_ Proctor's Theater, Schenectady and Troy through Tues. Hellman's Theater, Alabny. WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1: Film Haps, S.S. 016, 7:00 and 9:15PM, To be announced. MOVIES: \A Man and A Woman\ and \Belle De Jour,\ two truly beautiful filins, at Proctor's Theater in Schenectady. \Romeo and Juliet\ starrir1g Leonard Whiting and Olivia Hussey at Madison Theater in Albany through Thursday. ART DEMONSTRATION: Helen Van Wyck, noted local artist and Grumbacher Representative. Sponsored by Albany Artists Group, 179 North Main Ave., Albany. Wednesday, Thursday and Friday 7:30- 10:30 PM. THURSDAY, OCfOBER 2: :1\fOVIES: \Easy Rider\ - Peter Fonda and Demis Hopper are two motorcyclists journeying across America. PAGE 3 Fox Theater, Colonie. \The Loves of Isadora\ - Vanessa Redgrave stars as 'Isadora Duncan. Cinema Art Theater, Troy. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 3: Film Series, S.S. 016, 8:00 PM, \The Lodger\ MUSIC: Butterfield Blues Band and the Caldwell Winifield Blues Band - SUNY Gym, Western Ave., Albany. Admission Charge. COFFEE HOUSE: Cafe Lena, Saratoga, N.Y. Open Friday, Saturday, and Sunday night from 8:30PM. Paul Geremia, blues guitarist and singer. SATURDAY, OCTOBER 4: CARNIVAL WEEKEND - Booths and Games, Library Field, 1:00PM WRUC Block Party, South College, 3:00PM. Film Haps, S.S. 016, 3, 7, and 9:15 PM. \Tom Jones\ MUSIC: Diana Ross and The Supremes - Albany Armory, 19 5 Washington Avenue, Albany. Saturday 5 and 9 PM. Tickets are available at Van Curler Music, Schenectady. MONDAY, OCTOBER 6: I.R.C. Speaker, S.S. 016, 7:30PM. Max Singer, Hudson Institute. On Today's Scene: Feud Continued from page 4 Obviously, the NCAA's rec·ent move, and consequently the EXAC's, (which follows NCAA rulings closely), is another sneaky and equally dastardly stab at the rival Amateur Athletic Union. Repercussions will result from the ECAC-NCAA decision, because Eli Athletic Director DeLaney Kilputh, quoted in Friday's Times, stated flatly, \We will suit up Langer for the Connecticut game.\ Yale and Connecticut, also ECAC member, meet on December 2. • It's not that Kilputh and the Elis did not know about the NCAA ruling--they were warned during the summer that Yale and Langer would be in trouble if the Ft. Lee, N.J., hoopster went to Tel Aviv. Kilputh spoke to Langer about the problem but did not discourage him from playing. John Toner, Athletic Director for the Huskies who was placed squarely on the spot in the midst of Kil[Juth's \battle of principle,\ was also quoted in Friday's Times, and whistling in the dark, said, \DeLaney Kilputh hasn't told me about it. I don't know what we would do if Langer played agair1st us ... There are two months to. go before we meet Yale and we can think about it. So can Yale_\ Kilputh was far from wrong when he called the affair a \battle of principle,\ as an ECAC basketball player and two ECAC schools have become the unwitting victims of the long-standing NCAA-AAU feud. Kilputh and Toner have two months to think about the situation, and we hope that on December 2, Jack Langer will suit up for the Elis and play, or sit on the bench, or whatever, against Connecticut. The NCAA-AAU battle for amateur athletic superiority in this country has lasted long enough. Someone should fmally stand up to challenge the warring giants, and it might as wen be the ECAC. This truly is a \battle of principle.\ Now•s The· Time To MARRY ME Fall catches a young man's fancy. Buy your Wedding Ring at Maurice Gxaubart & Sons Jewelers, 166 Jay St. Setving Union for 3 generations. Peter Pause 535 Nott Street

'! ! i ; ! ' ! 'I I', PAGE 4 Larries Top Grid; Win Skein Ends By HENRY FEIN After routing Worcester Poly, 36-!5, iH the season opener on September 20, the Garnet griuders lost their first outing in eight starts Saturday, falling to St. Lawrence by 21-7. For the second straight season, the gridders have dropped their home opener. Last year's 19-13 loss to Kings Point was the only blemish on a 7-1 slate. nine plays, including three successful passes. On a vital fourth\down play, the senior qua:rterback's pass, bouncing off the fingertips of fullback Larry Sykes, was intercepted by Sey1nour, who raced down the sideline for the score. The Larries increased their lead to 21-0 when Seym-our snagged a Pearce pass thrown from the end zone early in the third period and waltzed ten yards for the score. The Larrie quarterback then ran unmolested into the end zone on a fake kick for the two-point conversion. The Larries ~cored their only touchdown against the outstanding Union defense midway through the first period when they marched 80 yards in eleven plays, culminating in a beautifully The Gamet running backs executed 29-yard crossbuck. looked strong all afternoon, Not once in that drive, and especially sophomore only six times all afternoon, halfback Rick Jaszcack, who did the Larries put the ball in gained 113 yards in 23 the air. Only one pass was carries. with 6:46 left in the successful, and Garnet third period, the Garnet defender Dave Gray picked produced their only score, off one attempt. coming on the heels of Gray's The Larries' Fred Seymour interception at the Larrie 38. was more successful in the In seven plays, highlighted by interception department. He Jaszcack's runs of 16 and 12 singlehandedly acc01mted for yards, the Garnet tallied, as the other two St. Lawrence the soph applied the clincher tallies. His first catch of a on a two-yard burst. Ken Pearce pass was the After the initial Larrie turning point of the contest. tally, the Garnet defense was With less than two minutes impenentrable. St. Lawrence remaining in the first half and managed only 21 offensive the Garnet down 7-0, Pearce plays in the second half, with took the Dutchmen from the only two first downs, one ON 2 to TODAY 'S;ng S'C)ENE with BILL HOLLERAN The cold war between the National Collegiate Athletic Association and the Amateur Athletic Union over the supremacy of amateur athletics in this country has heated up in recent weeks. As reported in the September 15 issue of Sports Illustrated, the NCAA recently banned an Oregon State University basketball player from 1969-70 competition for playing over the summer in a nondescript, out-of-the-way alumni-seniors game at his Idaho high school alma mater. The NCAA is a stickler in regards to their rule which prohibits offseason \organized\ basketball activity, but the Idaho alumni game in which the OSU hoopster competed could have been termed \organized\ by only the strictest of NCAA standards. The handful of \paying\ customers were charged a quarter admission price, and the alumnus in ques.tion ended up playing for the outmanned seniors. Nonetheless, the haughty NCAA handed down its ruling and was appropriately booed down by Sl, other sports publications, and sports buffs around the country. The NCAA's most recent sortie against the AAU, however, strikes a bit closer to home and figures to set off shock waves that may even be felt all the way back in Idaho. As reported in last Friday's New York Times, the Eastern College Athletic Conference, the NCAA's flunky in this instance, banned Jack Langer, a Yale substitute basketball player, from 1969-70 ECAC competition. The reason: Langer went to tel Aviv and the Maccabiah Games this summer as a member of the U.S. hoop squad. According to the NCAA, the Maccabiah Games, held every four years in the Israeli city are another one of those dastardly AAU attempts to undermine the NCAA's far-reaching control over this country's amateur athletes. The ironic twist in this case is that the NCAA has granted special sanctions in the past to American hoopsters headed for Tel Aviv. But not this year. SCHLOCK Coach Art Lawrence is in desperate need of referees for Intramural Football, starting immediately. The pay is $2 per game. See Coach Lawrence in the Alumni Gym. The Rugby Club held its first practice of the season yesterday afternoon in preparation for the fall schedule of games. Continued on page 3 KING'S i\TLANTIC SERVICE STATION 717 t-lott Street We Cater To Union Students 10% Service Discount Sophomore split end Mike Kumpf reaches for a Ken Pearle pass as St. Lawrence Defender moves in to break up play. Two Garnet drives fizzled late in the game as the tarries held on to win, 21-7. Photo by JODY SASLOW minute to play when the game was no longer in doubt. The Garnet offense suffered from a lack of a successful passing attack or threat of a \long-gainer\ play. Pearce was 16 of 40 for the afternoon, but in two unsuccessful drives late in the contest, the offense was unable to come up with the \big play,\ wither on third or fourth down. The two drives were esentially a single effort, thanks to lineback Fran Piscitelli, who recovered a Larrie furnble on the St. Lawrence 24 only two plays after the first Camet drive stalled on the 29. The second drive was especially futile, as an interference call on fourth down. gave the Garnet a fir st-and-goal on the St. Lawrence 5. The unsuccessful runs and tw.o incomplete passes, including the overthrowing of an open Rick Swan in the end zone on fourth down, sealed the Garrret fate. Phone 372-0528 PARK PIZZERIA Jta/,an ;;rinders Our Specialty Behind Davidson Hall_ One Block from the Campus 25 Park Place Schenectady, N.Y. WE HAVE YOUR NUMBER Be it the ''true 6\ illustrated, the \2-to-button 6\ or the single breasted \3\ - your blazer number is in our stocks. The tailoring, whichever is your preference, is su- perb. The fabrics, rich. The uses of this sports jacket, unlimited. Number it among your fall wardrobe choices. W'' VOL. 99, \\ arti onv To l\1 ._.l '\Student: easure wit ust where t ~) can be usef egins. and the them .., . Harold C. r the college convocatic , Chapel Tue: ~\'\ l~m~~ ltPresident 1 1 >'supremac: - tl~ formula tim ljP rocedur 1. students t< '-~ content, su - major \; . committee ) \Curriculu . faculty m~ . will be a the Gener -_· that make ~- NotE Discus~ and altera environm1 .. 1 that \ ... s< the envirc 'r. :t_-. fin a 11 y ·1 responsil \ ·•11 ong -r a short-terr r•i~•-1,1. \'st~J~nt: of five have a ri '/ · the dec constituc faculty . ' , alumni, · 4 ],...__~ · parents ' Integ~ The ~~' '· th. e cc ANt Ti< for ' conct purer Advh rep r Thur: be o Stuc ever Libr Rath $3;01 T s tuc card the -offic pict1 regi! for be PIe pho Act yell regi

