.. . . ' • .1\ ' . . - . . . .. Founded at Union College 187? VOL. · 99, NO. 1 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, JULY 3, 1969 PH ICE TWENTY CENiS . ~ - El · Trustees OK Coeducation For Fall, ~70 Striking down a 175-year tradition, the Board of Trustees of Union College voted at their Commencement meeting to make the College completely coeducational witi1 the entering freshman class of September, 1960. Recruitment of the Class of 1974, of about 400 men and l 00 women, will begin immediately. The trustees voted in favor of coeducation by a substantial majority. The College's evening and graduate divisions have been coeducational for more than 20 years. 400Women The trustees' .projection calls for a rise in the number of women at Union by about l 00 anrmally through 1973-74, . ~-. while the number of men will be stabilized at this year's level. By September, 1974, the college will have about 2,000 ' students, about 400 more than were enrolled this past fall. The 400 additional students wilLbe women. .: 1 ··1 1 / ' ' t The formal decision by the board climaxes more than eight years of discussion and a year-long round of report-presentations and polls. The report of an ad hoc faculty committee chaired by Carl Niemeyer, Lamont Professor of Literature, last September· set in motion the process leading to the decision. Along the way, coeducation received a boost ~'rom separate polls among the Continued on Page 2 TI1e College will - offer its second graduate program lea ding to the doctorate, beginning in September, President Harold C. Martin announced Monday. The graduate program in administrative and engineering systems was approved at a June lO meeting of the Faculty Council. Joins Life Sciences ~he new pmgram of studies will :be in administrative and engineering systems. The first program, announced earlier in the spring and also beginning this .fall, is · in life sciences and systems. Both programs have been described by their proponents as multidisciplinary and interdepartmental. The adminstrative and engineering systems program will deal with the planning, operation, and control of large scale complex systems. Faculty directors of the new program will be Alfred L. Thimm, professor and director of the institute of Industrial Administration, and Gardner M. Ketchum, professor and chairman of the Departmt:nt of Mechanical Engineering. Two Meetin_gs Although the Faculty Council approved the new program by a vote of 8 to 4 with one abstention, there appeared to be widespread feeling against the program, particularly among younger faculty members. Carl Niemeyer, Lamont Professor of Literature, reported to the Faculty \. ' Duchscherer Defeats Schneider, 2785-1199 Philip E. Duchscherer, a . 1: ' partner in an engineering 1 consulting firm, was elected to the Union Board of Trustees . '• . · ..-. y the College's alumni. ' tl ' I Duchscherer replaces Dr. Robert E. Murray, superintendent of schools in Schenectady, who has completed two terms as an alumnus trustee and was not eligible for re-election. - ~ · The new trustee defeated Dale A. Schneider of Winthrop, Conn., a student at Yale f' Divinity School and pastor of the Winthrop Baptist Church. The vote was 2 785-1199. A 1939 graduate of Union, Duchscherer in 196 7 received the Al\:lmni Council gold medal in recogn,ition of his services to the College. He has assisted the College in admissions work, class organization, and with the Western New York Union College Alumni Club. He has served as president, vice president, and member-at-large of the Alumni Council. Dr. Murray, who will retire as superintendent of schools this month, has been a trustee since 1960. He is a 1933 graduate of the College, where he was senior class president and earned eight varsity athletic letters. In 1958 Union awarded him an honorary Doctor of Laws degree. In 1957 he was named to the \Sports Illustrated\ silver anniversary all-America roster. 4WJ -· , ' / ALFRED L. THIMM GARDNER M. KETCHUM Faculty directors of the doctoral program in administrative and engineering systems Council that Division 1, HumanHies, had had two meetings to consider the administrative sciences program and had voted unanimously to request that consideration of the program be delayed until next fall. But there was strong administration feeling for quick action. President Martin told the Faculty Council that it's concern should be with the educational character of the program and its relation to the rest of the College, and not with the financial aspects of the program. He assured the Faculty Council that the trustees are committed to financing new graduate programs not at the expense of the undergraduate program but from new sources . No Full Faculty Consideration No motion was made to present the program proposal to a full faculty meeting because the end of the year was at hand. It had been agreed earlier in the spring that the decision at June faculty council meeting would be final, so that implementation could begin promptly if it were approved. Pr - o f. Sherwood Fox reported that Division II, Social Sciences, had discussed the proposal at two meetings, approving it at the first . meeting by a vote of 10-3, with three abstentions, and rejecting it at its later session by a vote of 9-12, with two abstentions. Prof. C. William Huntley, chairman of Division III, Science, reported to the Fa c u It y Council that his division had discussed the program for more than an hour, at the end of which about a third had voted for the measure and a third against, with approximately another third abstaining. Four main reasons were cited for the opposition or abstention of Division III members: IBM Gives $50~000 Union College will receive $50,000 over five years from the International Business Machines Corporation, Dr. Harold C. Martin , president of the college, announce<lt, The gift was announced June 3. The IBM gift, presented by T. J. Watson, Jr., chairman of the board of the company, will help establish new graduate programs at Union leading to the doctorate. Union has not awarded earned doctorates since the 1930s. 1) Some are still reluctant to approve PhD. work in general; 2) Some held doubts about the intellectual substance of the program; 3) The mathematics department felt that it was not ade-quately represented in the proposed plan of studies; and 4) There were doubts about the College being able to attract bright young people to teach in the program with the salary levels and teaching loads that were listed in the proposal. Interdisciplinary Agreement Prof. Niemeyer said that many members of Division I had reservations similar to those expressed in Division 111. Prof. Edward Craig, Cl1airman of Division IV, d1d not attend the June I 0 meeting and there was no official report of the sentiment in Division IV, Engineering. Courses in the new program will come from the areas of mathematics, engineering, sociology, public and industrial administration, anthropology, psychology, political science, economics, and history. Particular emphasis will be on the study of physical and administrative systems, in Continued on Page 3 ·-~~~----------------

PAGE2 Commitments and Priorities: When the College announced its determination to embark on a Ph. D. program in the life sciences early in April, we commented at length on our displeasure with the mannel' in whkh the program was approved without meaningful representation of the undergraduate student interest .. We are rtot going to make the same remarks about the Ph. D. ·.program in administrative and engineering systems, . not because it is suhstantiaJly less relevant or less , accurate, hut because there are far greater problems with this latest doctoral program. As much as we were upset with the manner in . which the life sciences program was approved without meaningful student participation in the decision-making process, we cannot deny that the motives behind the program itself and the caliber of the faculty involved are those of a program that will not fail due to any internal weaknesses. But the administrative and engineering systems program seems not nearly so sound either with . regards to its aims or to the College resources that it will employ. A large measme of the stimulus for this program seems to have come from outside of the undergraduate College community, that is from the General Electric Company and International · Business Machines, Inc. We do not mean to suggest · that GE and IBM are directly dictating demands for programs to the College. But their satisfaction with our Masters degree program in Industrial Administration has led genuinely perceptive faculty and administration people here to conclude that a market exists for a more advanced program in this area -- and the administrative and engineering sciences program resulted. We see nothing wrong with providing a service to these companies, for they both have been generous towards Union in many ways. But we doubt that the College can afford either the money or the energy for this kind of activity now. Co-education, implementing the trustee's commitment to increase the number of black and disadvantaged students here, and firming up the Comprehensive Education curriculum are making more immediate demands on the College and we feel that the College has neither the financial or personal resources to do these things well and also provide a service to GE and IBM. The question of finances, which the President told the Faculty Council not to concern themselves \Those who make peaceful revolution impossible make violent revolution i nevit able.\ ..... \' ~ld\· ~.':;~ ... 1<~ ainurnr 17 ,. ~~-. 95 :\,1· \n 11%1· 1.1 rt;':~i/C/ II ~ ;~ ~ ~~~J .. · Published Tue~ay and Friday Publishers Representative. 360 during the Union College Lexington Avenue, N. Y. c. academic year by the Student Editorial Office. Old Gym, Body of Union College, Union College. Publication Schenectady, New York. Office, Whitehurst Printing & Published Thur~ays during .Binding Co., Inc., 416-418 the Upward Bound Project by Fifth Ave., Troy. 235-4450. Upward Bound students in Entered in the Schenectady re3idence at Union College. .Post Office as Second Class Nat ion a! Advertising Mail Matter. Subscription 20c Representative: National tl copy; $6 a year delivered Educational Advertising ,mywhere in the United States. Service, Inc., College NEIL S. KRAMER Editor-in-Chief WARDELL E. ROBINSON MARCELLA L. STEWART Assistant Editor Assistant Editor STAFF: Ginny R. Knauer, Jim Armstead II, Keith Stinney, Nadine Collins, Bernice Starker,. Anna Turner, AI Griffm. Latest Ph.D. Program Can Wait with, is indeed relevant. The initial funding for both doctoral pregrams call for the College to contribute \seed money\ from its own resources to kick off these programs. By the time that perhaps the second or third class of Ph. D. candidates receive their degrees then enough support from outside sources ought to be forthcoming to maintain the program for the rest of its existence. But the question of seed money is a large one. By our rough calculations, the amount of seed money for both Ph. D. programs will be on about the same order of magnitude as. the College's operating deficit the last two fiscal years. We simply fail to see where Union is going to get this kind of extra money now. After the completion of the College's long range capital campaign, then perhaps these things will be in order. But that will be a few years, perhaps even a decade, away. Yet the costs and difficulties associated with co-education, further diversifying the student body, · and firmly establishing. the Comp Ed curriculum do not allow for the further drain of the administrative systems doctoral program. We hope that there will he strong faculty pressure for the examination of this question by a full faculty meeting, because we suspect that the Faculty Council decision would be reversed by a faculty plenum. From the reports of faculty sentiment in Divisions I, II, and ill that were given at the Faculty Council meeting that approved the administrative sciences program, we guess that a secret faculty ballot would result in a tally of about 45 yeas, 45 nays, and 15 abstaining. In other words, it would be too close to call. The Faculty Council vote is not at all representative in this case. Only two of the regular faculty members, Profs. Olton and Shanehrook, do not have tenure. Although this may argue for revamping the Faculty Council, and although there may be other indications of non-representativeness, we feel that reconsideration of the new doctoral program by a full faculty meeting definitely has first priority. If the administrative sciences program is such an awfully good idea,. then it will probably be a good idea when we can afford it. But there are more important demands on the College in the fall of 1969, and we think that G E and IBM will be able to survive until we are in a position to help them. Trustees Okay Coeducation Continued from Page 1 alumni and the executive committee of the Trustees gave its approval at a meeting in April. The ftrst women at Union will be housed in Richmond House, a dormitory built in 19 6 0, which now houses primarily freshmen. Changes in Union's residential policy permitting a larger number of upperclassmen to live off-campus, will free the additional rooms in other dormitory facilities needed for the men displaced from Richmond. At the next stage of demand for space, North College will be completely renovated to serve as a second women's dormitory. North, constructed in 1814 from the proceeds of a New York State lottery, has been changed only superficially in its more than 150 years. It was dropped from the active list of residences last year upon completion of Union's two newest upperclass dorms. · Another change will be the relocation of the College's infirmary to larger quarters, a project already contemplated before the question of coeducation arose. The North Collonade, where the psychology department is now located, will be the new home of the infirmary. Harold C. Martin, president of the College, said coeducation will aid academic programs where present costs are high. Available data, he said shows that women students will concentrate in academic areas such as modem languages and classics, where majors are expected to jump six-fold and ten-fold, respectively. Dr. Martin said that a substantial portion of the women students at Union could be absorbed vnthout adding additional faculty and staff. The student-faculty ratio will rise a little, he said, from about 11.5:1 to 14:1 in 1975. He emphasized that such a small increase will not damage the small-class cortcept, since more than two-thirds of all classes at Union now have fewer than 20 students, and one-third have 1 0 or fewer students. JULY 3,1969 L.ETTER It's Mine! To the Editor: I think it is time that someone sueamed from righteous indignation regarding some matters of this·~.~ ( CQmmunity. And, 'I feel in the mood to do it. · There are thFee matters which particularly anger me at 1; this moment -- three matters of . J sufficient annoyance to me as a , member of this organization. r that I am seriously considering ~~ \ whether I want to remain a part ofit. They are: J 1. I want to be able to refer~ · interested students to .. 'f r~feren.ces in our library. Five. r times m a recent week it was ~ reported back to me that five f\' \'' different source books were .'I gone. This is atrocious. ; my· writings with interested · JULY 3,1 Sixteen n faculty have grants totalin College, half from a Ford for faculty d« humanities. The Ford for a four-~ made last y{ to match the provides a t' year for facu years. In annour faculty, M~ dean of so humanities, individual a' $500 to $3,: Union plans of this type; Hog~ Wins 2. I want to be able to . ·1 share my personal bo. oks and ·4J) ~, •. students. But when I say I want them returned, that is\'\) -! From what I want. Students now j have, from last term, books / Charles and manuscripts of mine they ., graduated ! were allowed to share and CJ ' the Colleg which they promised to return. ceremonies If I have to run these down 24 Amet personally, some students are 1• , at receive a ~ going to be more than \ · the British embarassed. · 1 New York 3. I want to retain for my Hogan personal use the clothes I wear. student to It w 1 ould seem to me one could The N. at east go to Hale House with program i a reasonable expectation that l:i paid fo: those who frequent it would governmer keep their 'cotton picking in 1953 : hands' off other people's British gra clothes. This spring I have had War II l two hats and a raincoat taken. which $1~ The latter was t a k e n last assistance Tuesday and I am disgusted United S with the person who took it. It l is a long black raincoat with red lining that I had to search New York City to ftnd. IT'S MINE DAMN IT BRING IT BACK. Also, keep hands off the clothes in my office. ~:~ It would seem to me that those in this organization could at least respect, even if it hurts recovery European Britain. Hogan of Arts d history a Leiceste '{li covers f the basis of our work, the-(_\i , c Britain, t allowanc~ Marshall been awa library, and the personal property of others. I sure as HELL am asking \ · myself whether it is worth my effort here when simple human decency is so lacking. Clare W. Graves- f ' Professor of Psychology SPAC The Saratoga Performing , • Arts Center will discount over .... 1600 seats to students this summer with a unique 50% off \S.P.A.C. Student Stand-By\ t ticket-plan. This \Stand-By\ ticket is initiated by the Center in response to the hundreds of requests from students for a · break in admission price and ~ill res?mble the \Stand-By\ ticket discounts offered by the airlines. t , ' Thirty minutes prior to performances of the New york City Ballet and The •.:-· Philadelphia Orchestra unsold seats in the Amphithe~ter will be made available to students at half-price. \S.P.A.C. Student ri Stand-By\ is available only to students with I.D. cards. A his1 Hogan w the Class L ~·AI •: Continw which under \\'' contin· ,l''f control Afte • 1 acqui · '~': profici behavi complit be en< I', case-we phase. Case \i. in the systen rese af! electric f' devel< plann: system \- harts de vel resot adtnini

v PAGE3 JULY 3, 1969 ~;-¥ v. '-i '! /-r\ .... Half of All Alumni Gave To Annual Fund Faculty Awarded $25,000 • ng s·~.\ he Sixteen members ·of the faculty have been awarded grants totaling $25,000 by the College, half of which came from a Ford Foundation grant for faculty development in the ( humanities. The Ford grant, .of '$50 000 ~} l; j ' ~~ , r ng ~ a ~r ~ t:,, for a four-year period, 'was made last year. Union agreed to match the Ford grant which provides a total of $2S;OOO a year for faculty grants for four years. In announcing the grants to faculty, Martin Lichterman, dean of social sciences and humanities, noted that the individual awards ranged from $500 to $3,330. He added that Union plans to continue grants of this type 1 on its own, when r to.~ 1 Hogan '69 1 Wins Award ~ 'k From British ks rl ·~ ·I' l 'l• . jjt \. \\ I I \ Charles J. Hogan, who was graduated summa cum laude at the College's commencement ceremonies June 14, is one of 24 Americans selected to receive a Marshall Scholarship the British consulate-general ~ New York City has announced. Hogan is the frrst Union student to receive that award. The Marshall Scholarship program is administered and the tennof the Ford grant ends . A list of the recipients and their projects: Stephen M. Berk, instructor in history, to study indigenous anti-Bolshevik movements in East Russia and Siberia during a leave of absence in the fall 1969; term. ' William B. Bristol, professor of history, to complete a manuscript on the Church in Columbia during a sabbatical leave in the winter and spring, 1970, terms. Edgar Curtis, professor and chairman of the Department of the Arts, to study contemporary composition in the United Kingdom and Germany during a sabbatical leave in the 1969-70 academic year. Peter R. Erskine, instructor in the arts, to provide materials and tools necessary to complete works in sculpture during this summer and fall in preparation for an exhibit next spring. Hans Freund, associate professor of English, for work on English Romantics in the United Kingdom this summer. Frank Gado, assistant professor of English, to study the work of lngmar Bergman Swedish film director, u;_ Sweden on sabbatical leave in the 1969-70 academic year. Erik Hansen, assistant professor of history, to study the Dutch Social Democratic Party, 1918-1940, in the Netherlands this summer. for a study of the Hero in history and literature. David B. Potts, assistant professor of history, to complete a monograph on denominational colleges this summer and for ,preparation of a new course in American Negro history. Donald A. Ross, instructor in classics, to. study ancient Greek poetics during a leave of absence in the fall, 1969, term. Michael Shinagel, professor and chairman of the Department of English, to study certain influences on the development of the English novel, from 1660·1760, this summer in the United Kingdom. Edwin K. Tolan, libra,rian and professor of philosophy, to research the works of Benedetto Croce, an Italian philosopher, in Italy during a sabbatical leave the past winter and spring terms. Samson 0. A. Ullmann . ' associate professor of English, to study the development of Matthew Arnold's poetry and poetics at the Yale University Library this summer. Weston Bruce L. Weston has been named an assistant professor of Russian at Union, effective Sept. 1, Dr. Harold C. Martin, president of the College, announced. Union is one of 27 colleges, universities, and independent secondary schools that have been recognized for superior performance in annual giving form alumni. Th-e awards are made annually by the American Alumni Council in its alumni giving incentive awards competition, through .grant support fwm the United States .Steel Foundation. Union's perfonnance, a total of $226,4 76 from 50 per cent of the college's living alumni, earned an honorable mention for sustained performance. the College will receive a certificate and cash grant of $350. ----------- The summer CONCORDIENSI is published by the students an · staff of the UPWARD BOUND : Project for the entire UNION COLLEGE Community. Named Amencan Association of U n i v e r sit y P r o f e s s o ts , American Association .of Teachers of Slavic and East European Languages, and the American Association of th.e Advancement of Slavic Studies. The American Alumni Council, which administers the awards, is a non ~profit, educational association serving the p Fofessional needs of ~oHege, university, and mdependent secondary school administrators in the fields of alumni relations, educational fund raising and development, and publications. McGowan Donates Co lin C. McGowan, a student has donated $50 to the College's department of history for the purchase of books in Russian history. McGowan, from Oklahoma City, Okla., said that he hoped his action would set a .precedent at Union and that students would help the college in .fue difficult fmancial task of meeting the library needs of th.e various disciplines. Stephen M. Berk an instructor in history at Union who teaches the courses dealing with Russian history said the money would be used to purchase \The Third Department,\ by P.S. Squire; '\The Russian Landed Gentry and the Peasant Emancipation of 1861\ and \The Great Terror,\ by Robert Conquest· an~ \Revo~utionary Russia,'; edited by Richard Pipes. · t:t paid for by the British government. It was established in 1953 as an expression of British gratitude for post-World War II Marshall Aid under which $13 billion of economic assistance was provided by the United States to help the recovery of a number of European countries, including Britain. Manfred Jonas, professor of history, for research of United States-German relations in Wa~gton, D.C., during a sabbatical leave the past winter A 1 9 54 graduate of Northwestern University, the new appointee took his doctorate at the University of Michigan in 1967. He comes to Union from the University of Notre Dame, where he was an assistant professor. Executive Named It I b.e \:~ at ld -!' es f , '::. , ·t_:, , a d , e •.:· ~­ Hogan will read for a Master o~ Arts degree in English local history at the University of Leicester. His scholarship covers fares to and from Britain, tuition fees, and living allowances. A total of 288 Marshall Scholarships have been awarded since 1953. t A history major at Union, Hogan was co-valedictorian of . ' the Class of 1969. and spring tenus. Paul LeClerc, assistant professor of French, to complete a monograph on Voltaire in Paris and Geneva this summer. William M. Murphy, professor of English, to study John Butler Yeats this summer. Carl A. Niemeyer, Thomas W. Lamont Professor of Ancient and Modern Literature, to work in libraries in the United States and the United IGngdom this summer Prof. Weston will offer the same Russian courses as his predecessor, Paul Petelchuk, who has gone to Syracuse for further graduate study. Prof. Weston's specialty is 19th Century Russian literary criticism. A former Woodrow Wilson and NDEA Fellow, he is a member of the Modem Language Association, .-Approval for Ph.D.Program •} Continued from Page 1 which decisions take place under uncertainty, changes .~· continuously occur, and control is a significant factor. After degree candidates , • 1 acquire a fundamental · '~-'• proficiency in both the behavioral sciences and computer techniques, they will f. be encouraged to enter a case-work study and research phase. . Case-work study may focus 'f. m the areas of man\machine systems, management of research and development electric power systems, urba~ r· development, transportation planning, electric power ~ystems, urban development, ~ transportation planning, development of water resources, or hospital administration. Research for the dissert~tio~. will be developed on an mdiV1dual basis and will be directly related to the internship undertaken by the candidate. Faculty Council Debate A lengthy discussion of the proposal preceded the vote by the ~aculty Council. Prof. Fox, Chrurman of the sociology department, said the proposed program would attract able young specialists who in addition to offering graduate courses, could teach undergraduates in fields of ~tudy .(his example was w~ustnal sociology) that Umon cannot now afford to offer. Martin Lichterman, Dean of Humanities and Social Sciences also argued that the program would bring in new persons who would strengthen some departments in both centers and that it would, in addition provide library books that could be used oy undergraduate as well as graduate students. Prof. Niemeyer opposed the program on the ground that it would help move the College in the wrong direction educationally to the detriment of the liberal arts. Prof. Charles Olton added that he feared that the new Ph.D. program would undesirably emphasize professional specialization mstead of enhancing liberal education. He furthennore voiced strong doubt about setting out on a new venture with a substantial majority of the faculty not behind it. He said that this lack of support was indicated by the. reports of Divisions I, II, and III. As Term Trustee Thomas E. Hanigan, Jr., of Bronxville, an executive vice president and director ofW. R. Grace & Co., has been elected to a term on the Board of Trustees unti11973. Re-elected to four-year terms on the hoard were Henry W. Wright of Schenectady, president of Schenectady Chemicals, Inc., and William-B. Jaffe of New York City, a lawyer. Hanigan joined W. R. Grace & Co. upon graduation from Union in 1946. Two years later he was placed in charge of the firm's insurance department. He has served in a wide variety of management positions. •For three Generations .. ' Those Who Know ... Have been ~\ecommending - In October, 1968, he was named an executive vice president, and last month he was elected to the firm's Board of Directors. He serves as group executive of Grace's Consumer Products Group, with food and comsumer products operations in the United States, Europe, and the Far East. The Consumer Products Group includes the Miller Brewing Company and ;\mbro~ia Chocolate Company m M1lwaukee, Wise., and Nalley's Fine Food Division in Tacoma, Wash. Hanigan is a native of Schenectady. 11 • . HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER 3 Un1on Gradilates in Graubart Family'• 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELR)'

PAGE4 JULY 3,1969 Union People Staff HOPE, Upward Bound l 1 By WARDELL E. ROBINSON Norwood C. Davis became director of Project Hope, Higher Opportunities for Education, effective July 1. The program, co-sponsored by Rensselaer, Skidmore and Union, is geared toward preparing high school graduates for these colleges. The students will live and study at Skidmore for six weeks, taking courses which will prepare them specifically for the school they will enroll at September. R.P .1. will have. an additional two week program in Troy. Grants from the Ford Foundation for $41,915, and the Garrett Foundation for $20,000 helped to start the program which will run from July 7 to August 15. The total cost of the Program for the 1 9 69· 70 academic year is projected at $250,000. Davis is coming to Project HOPE from a position as dean of admissions at Delaware State College, a predominantly b 1 a c k school, 1, in Dover, Delaware. He is a 1957 graduate of the Agricultural and Technical College of North Carolina University, and has done graduate work at the University of Heidelberg, Germany, New York University, and Columbia University. Davis, a black man, was selected after he and seven other candidates were interviewed for the position. According to R. Gordon Bingham. Director of Aid, Union Quits I.C.A.C. Union college's Board of Trustees voted at their Commencement meeting to end the College's affiliation with the Independent College Athletic Conference, an organization of six upstate private colleges and universities that Union helped to found in 1964. The trustees' decision will become effective immediately. Remaining members of the league are Alfred University, C I a r k s o n I n s t i t u te of Technology, Hobart College, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, and St. Lawrence University. A recommendation from Union's athletic department to the trustees cited the traveling distance between Union and the most distant members of the league. Further , the athletic department believes that Union will not have increased problems in scheduling as an independent. Union will continue to try to schedule some league members, which includes long-standing rivalries with Rensselaer dating back to 1868. \The initial idea for Project HOPE came from Union College.\ Bingham was chairman of the committee that selected the HOPE Students for Union, RPI and Skidmore, also recruited their own students. The HOPE students who will enter Union in September were selected mostly from the six county area of the Capital District. Because the project was not· funded until March, high schools, the most direct routes to students were the primary focus of recruitment activities. Some recruitment was done by community programs such as The Brothers in Albany, and the Schenectady Community Action Program. The Union Project HOPE Committee, composed of students, faculty, and administration, organized the Union segment of the program. Applications and materials explaining Project Hope were sent to high schools in the Capital District area, and guidance counselors were asked to select students whom they thought would benefit most from the program, and to have these students fill out the applications. The committee interviewed the prospective students, having black Union men interview Black applicants. In addition the applicants were interviewed by the Admissions Committee of the College, but the emphasis was placed on the student-to-student interview. Approximately 70% oC the Union college students are black. Each of the three schools will have about 20 students coming out of HOPE at the end of six weeks. Two faculty members for the summer program are from the Union faculty. Professor Patrick E. Kilburne, Associate Professor of English, will teach a course dealing with an introduction to the humanities and social sciences. John Daniels. assistant professor of chemistry, will teach a course concerned with an introduction to scientific concepts. Both of these courses which parallel Camp Ed. 10 and 11 will place their emphasis on reading. There will be a third course in remedial reading for which credit will not be given. The students who will be participating in Project HOPE are students who would not ordinalily be going to college, but who were chosen because of their motivations, and desire to attend college. Objective tests played a secondary role in the selection. Jaszczak, All-American Sets Record Union quarter-mile sensation rich Jaszczak achieved the highest All-American designation of any athlete here this year with a sixth place finish at the NCAA College division track and field championships at Ashland Ohio. Jaszczak qualified for the fmals in the 440 and ran 48.4 for sixth place. Hugh Brown of Occidental College won the national title with a time of 4 7. 6. Rich set a school quarter-mile record in posting a time of 48.1 in the Atlantic Coast regionals. The old record was held by AI Sessoms '68. Other Garnet athletes to gain All-American recognition this year were Steve Wedin for a ninth place fmish in the college division 200 yard butterfly swim championships and Steve Ciensinske, who was named honorable mention Little All Ameri9a as a defensive halfback in football. Ciesinski made ten interceptions in 8 games, two short of the national record. Retirees: :Holt, Raser, Mo.zley T h e C o 1 l e g.e ' s commencement on June 14, marked the ,end of the academic year and signaled the beginning of retjrement for three members of the college's faculty. Retiring are H. Kendrick Holt, professor of mathematics; Dr. W. Alan Mozley, research professor of zoology; and Dr. George B. Raser, professor .of French and Spanish. Prof. Holt joined tl1e Union faculty in 1946 as a lecturer in mathematics. He was promoted to his present rank in February, 1968. Prof. Holt is a 1924 graduate of Denison University. He took an M.A. at Ohio State University in 1927. Prof. Mozley has been a member of the Union faculty since 1958. He also taught at Union during th.e 1951-52 and 1954-5 5 academic years. A graduate of the University of Manitoba, he has both a Ph. D. and Sc.D. from the University of Edinburgh. A noted authority on snail-borne diseases found in the Middle East, his work has taken him to many parts of 'the world. He is a fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh and the author of a number of books and articles. Prof. Raser first joined the Union faculty in 1935, and he remained for one year. He returned to Union in 1960, upon retirement from the U.S. Navy. He is a 1924 graduate of the University ,of Pennsylvania, with a doctorate from Harvard. Prof. Raser is the author of \Blzac's Le. Message\ (1940) and \Guide to Blazac's Paris\ (1964). He also has written many book reviews in French, Spanish, German, and Italian. Crawford As:sumes J l VOL 99, J . Directorship By MARCELLA L. STEWART Union College opened its ~ Cha·rt third consecutive summer ~ · ·. session of the federally-funded, Upward Bound program June :! 1 . Sf··U·d 29. Student participants will be . from high schools in Amsterdam, Schenectady, and 1~ { Troy. Peter M. Crawford of Schenectady, is presently serving as acting director of the ~ program in ,place of the former director John P. Terry, who left in June to accept a , ,- position at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Crawford is on leave from the General Electric Company, ·, where he is a Production Control Systems Specialist. Detroit Native It- Origin ally from Detroit, l Crawford has served on the i Human Rights Commission, 'IJ J produced and ho.sted f educational television shows, and done public relations work . for a number of local ~ organizations during his two } years in Schenectady. He is ~ presently taking courses ,in the \! : evening division of the Cpllege. · Lawrence Weitz of Albany 1 is director of the program's .~ psychological services. Weitz· •·1· received his BJ\ fJiOm Ohio State University !lld his MA in clinical Psychology from t· Springfield College in • Massachusetts. In 1964, he Monda' Research. congressme Congress c study, pra: The pre boys and grades eigl The stude parts of stayed at the Unio1 The remai supervison Their wakeup at the group Elementar other half Building o From 1 groups e programs Group 1 developm H In ord understar Group 1 have mai: average science. received his professional ~ diploma in clinical psychology J' ~ .. r· ' and hopes to fmi~.h his doctoral dissertation by the end of the year. . . \ The c the stud' people l: outside < concentr Some into a 1 CliniciaJ ,. 1r At Union, he is an instructor of psychology and is l .. also a counselor at the Student ~ r· Counseling Center. I Of 35 senior Upward Bound 1 students from last year, 31 will ·., 1\1 go on to post-secondary schools. Twenty-four will attend public or private 1 some characte This during students talk abc boys w< The girl four-year institutions, five will-~,., ', to!' attend community or junior \ j colleges, and two will attend< .. , ...... other institutions. .,. Pratt Institute of Arl, • D Skidmore, Union,· Syrucuse, \: Cornell, Suny at New Paltz &nd. • · Oneonta are a few of the '-' ~­ \B. colleges that have accept~d Upward Bound Students ·and . ~- which they will attend this fall. ~. cit G r, The Upward Bound ~ .. program a !so provides consti1 counseling during a student's so c i e junior and senior years in high t hypoc school and aids in applying to ~ ~~~nJn college and for financial aid. Upward Bound assists and n culturally and social f \' churc disadvantaged high school Union students who otherwise would rather be considered prime prospects \'· tufiur to become high school •) \ dropouts. A student in the program attends two surrimer sessions at Union, between the ·~ sophomore and junior year in high school and between the junior and senior year. as pr 27 to Ed S1 and atter meet

4 ' ''J Founded at Un:ion 1877 lRT :1! VOL. 99, N0.2 :.1 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, JULY 10, 1969 PRICE TWENTY CENTS i its amer nded, June ill be in . and 'w of ently fthe \ •rmer who I Character :Re.sea:rc;h Proie·ct: 1 Study, Prayer, Reflection By ANNA TURNER Monday 38 Character Research Project youth congressrnen left the Union Congress after eight days of study, prayer, and reflection. >t !l 1setts logy. 1 the >any, :::tion J The project consisted of 32 boys and girls, ranging from grades eight to grade twelve. The students came from all parts of the country. They stayed at Richmond House on the Union College grounds. The remaining six were adult supervisors. or appeared afraid of their director. The director, Bob Proctor, said as little as he could in as little time as possible in a Cencordy interview. He Rever let on to any reasons for his secrecy. The CRP was founded by Dr. Ernst Ugon, Research Professor of Poycalogy at Union College, 35 yems ago. lt has been funded by the Eli Litey Fundation. I \ iJ- troit, J :si:!~ 'i) • s ted I LOWS, work local ~ - Their day began with wakeup at 7 AM. At 9 AM half the group went to Nott Terrace Elementary School and the other half went to the Physics Building on campus. Ladies Offer UB Students Study Help By KElTl!.l STJNNEY A group ,gf local college educated women have volunteered to tutor in area high scho 0ls this fall. According to Peter Crawford, acting director of Upward Bound, the program has been started through the efforts of Larry Weitz, also of Upward Bound, and Mrs. Janet Hay, chairmaf. of the American Associaboo of University Women group. two ) From nine until twelve both groups engaged in research programs on the Mathematical Group Theory of character development. Herbert J. Detweilder, former chairman of ,the CRP Youth Research Committee, fee 1 s that the future of tomorrow deperlcis upon the children of today with imagination, courage and good will. He also feels that they cannot succeed without upholding their own convictions. The pmr;.t:am will begin in September and operate until June and continue as a yearly .effort. The program involves Mont Pleasant an.d Linton high schools in Schenectady. Efforts are being made to include Troy High SchooL and Wilbur Lynch H.S. in Amsterdam. The purpo~e of the program is to tutor Upward Bound students in th.eir own schools, thus continuing the program begun during the summer months. Th()se who will be tutoring are housewives with teaching ex.perience in elementary schools and in volunteer tutoring. All possess a bachelors, and many have masters degrees. ~e~: ~ ·~. llege. . 1 .bany l ran1's .~ Weitz· •·1 Ohio · 1Ain ~fro~ 9 t· , he , ;ional ~ ology Jl• ~t· ~toral ( •f the j an \ ~~~· mdis i 1dent \ ~, l{ ound 1 will · ~ 1dary will r \1 rivate ; ~ will -..I.,... ', iJ· unior \ ttend, :j. Arl, • ~ LCUSe, z !!lld .• ~ the 'it ept~d ; 'a:hd s fall. ~ ound ~ vi des ient's L high ng to t id. •ssists J c i al f chool ;vould ~ects ::hool ·) 1 the mmer n:~. the ·~ ear in n the· High Standards In order for the students to understand the Mathematical Group Theory, they had to have maintained a 90 or higher average in both math and science. The directors try to keep the students away from other people because they feel that outside contact will break the concentration of the group. Some of the people divided into a family group and did some research on family characters. This reporter noticed, during inteiViews, that the students were not anxious to talk about their program. The boys were friendly but tinlid. The girls were either snobbish OJ Ourselves The summer Concordiensis is published by the students and staff of the Upward Bound Project for the entire Union College Community. There will be four more issues, providing that our fmancial situation does not change for the worse. Contributions to the summer Concordy are anxiously sought by the editors. Our readers include the Classes of 1970, '71, '72, and '73, our 500 subscribers, and all of the summer people at Union College. We welcome your letters and opinions. The Schenectady school district has approved of the program and is cooperating with the AAUW to insure its success. The women involved in the program are dedicated to it and hope th.at the students will take advantage of it. Thus far, it is the only one of its kind in the country. Peter Crawford, co-ordinat(lr of the program, said, \I'm grateful that this was started.\ He warmly praised Weitz and Mrs. Hay for their efforts. Evangelical Camp Meeting .Draws 3 Union Men To God \By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, ifye have love to one another.\ Greatest among the constituents of contemporary society that are trite, hypocritical, and empty to the point at which the society's children are driven to drugs and revolution is the modem church. However, several Union students have found, or rather, been found by a church that still knows God and which fulfills Christ's commandment as printed above. From June 27 to July 6, three of them -- Ed Starbuck, Harold Heckman, and Lloyd Walkenfeld -- attended a glorious. camp meeting with about 500 John 13:35 Christians at Victory Grove, a camp site near Stop 15 on Route 5, owned by the Pilgrina Holiness Church of New York. In a disjointed, sick, and love-starved world, peace and joy and trust may still be found through the blood of Jesus Christ. Last term several Union students were introduced to this truth and to God in a wave of student evangelism that culminated in a service in Memorial Chapel June 3. The service was led by the Schenectady Pilgrinl Holiness Church, which is located on Cuny Road just north of its intersection with Altamont Avenue. There are pitifully few spiritual denominations in tllis country. Another is the Bible Missiona:zy Church. There used to be many evangelical denominations. Our church is a remnant of the 1800's. It was headed by John Wesley and swept the country wit.h religi()US fervor and Holy Ghost fire in the last century. The evangelists at the camp meeting were Brother Hanan of Holy Sound Bible College (Florida) and Sister Miller. All the Christians are called Brother and Sister, as we are \born again\ (John 3 : 3) children ofGod. -· L. W. ~International D:ialogue Aim Of Exchange With Britain By BERNICE 'STARKER By sharing dining halls, dormitory facilities and evening discussions with Upward Bound students, a group from the British Isles hopes to have \chances for dialogue that can have an intern a ti on al dimension,\ according to Reverend James C. Miller .of the Emmanuel Baptist Church, Schenectady co-ordinator of the exchange. While they are staying at Union, the students will be takillg part in all of the Upward Bound activities such as: -- Discussions and seminars on the issues of economic and social justice as expressed in the United States, British Isles and the Third World; p artidpation with Schenectady programs that offer social sewices and wolik for political action; opportunities for inter-personal relationships Mrs. Bittleman Joins Art Dept. Mrs. Dolores D. Bittleman has been named an instructor in art, effective Sept. 1, at Union, Dr. Harold C. Martin, president of the college, announced yesterday. The appointee is the wife of Arnold I. Bittleman, lecturer in art and artist in residence at the College. A 1952 graduate of Columbia University, Mrs. Bittleman has studied at tlte Sorbonne on a Fulbright grant and at the University of Calcutta. She has been a free 1 a n c e i 11 us t rat o r f or ''Seventeen,'' '• Life,'' \Woman's Wear Daily,\ Columbia Records, R,C.A. Viet or, .and numerous advertising agencies. She has presented one-woman shows at Bennington College, Silvennine College of Art, Sechenectady Museum, and the Galerie St. Julien Le Pauvre in Paris. Work she has done is now in the collections of the Museum of Modern Art in New York City, the Yale University of Art and Arc hi te cture, Columbia University, and the Silverrnine College of Art. Her work has been included in many invitational groups both in this country a:nd abroad. across cHltural, racial and economic boundaries; ·· invitation of the British Isles students to comment on the American scene as seen from their perspectives, prejudices and changing insights. Ten students from the British Isles will spend two weeks taking part in the Upward Bound project in order to promote in temational understanding. Three boys, six girls, and two adult leaders will arrive July 30 at Union to participate in a program sponsored by the International Christian Youth Ex.change. The students will be able to see all forms of American life. Students will be placed in middle income homes as well as taking part in the Upward Bound Program. The leaders of the program feel that in this way the foreign students will see mainstream American citizens and not just those in higher income groups who can afford to tour Europe or host foreign exchange students in their homes. The directors of the International Christian Youth Exchange believe that by having students from the British Isles live in ilie dorms and participating in activities with Upward Bound students at Union a more prdfound understanding would develop between the English students and their Upward Bound counterparts. Other phases ofthe I.C.Y.E. program are: 1. Six overseas students will live in Schenectady from mid July '69 to July '70. Three girls and three boys come from Fin! and, Switzerland, Germany, The Netherlands, England and Brazil. . 2. Four Schenectady youths will be in Zambia, Africa from June 21 to August 30. They join six youths from Tulsz, Oklahoma. 3. Five youths and one adult will participate in a European Ecumenical Conference in the Netherlands and Germany July 23 to August 9. 4. Four youths will have the opportunity to spend two weeks in Checkoslavakia in late August. At this point, the trip is tentative from the I.C.Y.E. standpoint, based solely on lack of funds. 5. Three to six Schenectady youths will spend a full year overseas, 1970-71.

PAGE 2 The Summer Scene: Are We Ready ]or the Class of '73? The tempo and character of the summer activities at Union College are radically different from the kinds of things that go on here during the regular academic yea1·. Although the buildings and gro11nds are the same, people here act very differently and seem to have different intentions from the people who are here from September to June. Summer students here tend to he either older or younger than the regular degree candidate students. Upward Bound and Character Research project host high-school-age people, while the National Science Foundation and Economics for Teachers of the Disadvantaged Institutes oblige high school teachers to make a giant role transformation and switch from teacher to student for eight weeks. Perhaps the most drama tic turnabout takes place in the Institute in Quantitative Methods for Specialists in international relations, wherein several Union College faculty members, most with doctorates, spend their mornings in the Social Sciences building scribbling notes and puzzling out proofs and equations. Du t there are more fundamental differences that we notice between the summer and September-June student body groups. The College is nearly 50% female during the summer, and so far, there seem not to he any serious or insurmountable difficulties there. Also, perhaps as many as one fourth of the summer people are black and an even greater portion than that are from low income and/or low status groups. We find it difficult to put a finger on it, but we get the feeling that some of the College staff people are not completely ready for this kind of diversification. Perhaps this is due to the fact that the College staff that regularly deals with 1500 students has only one fifth as many summer people to concern itseH with and therefore everyone has just that much more attention to devote t<> every incident or case that confronts them. We may he premature in saymg this, .but if we are correct here, a large portion of the College staff may not he ready for the greater number of black and disa,dvantaged students who will be part of the September-June Student body next year. We think that the faculty and the decision-makers in the administration are ready for the kinds of changes that will take place next year in the makeup of the Union Student body. We have no good indication of how returning students will conduct themselves in this regard. But from their reaction to the summer people, we have doubts that the staff or the College-- police, housekeepers, secretaries, maintenance -· have been either sensitized or reconciled to the new order of things. Although we do not have either the insight or the shared experience to know how our black and disadvantaged students will feel in this regard, our guess is that they will have a just complaint if the kinds of attitudes that we see du.ring the summer exist in September also. It would seem crucial, then, that some · sort of preventive action be taken so that a possibly emb arassing and unpleasant incident can be avoided. Jl.:JL Y 10, 1969 ln Perspective JULY 10 Skin I have live He appeal his powe1 ~ everyone. 1 :. conscious tries to ! Someday remarkabl field he cl -G~ MotJ Timetable for Desegregation A hot de1 The win< the scatu The cry search of The dis1 appro ad A distan1 The thur The bell< An agor Pre de stir A bolt cloudblll Success 1 Victims birds Fading c The win in grief Peacere In a lengthy statement issued July 3, 1969, the Nix:.on Administration announced its policy on desegregation of southern schools. I11 effect, the main thrust of the new pdicy will give the already slow moving school districts the benefit of a doubt in tlteir attempts to del~y desegregation. Since the Supreme Court decision of Brown vs. Board of Education in 1954, there s-till are many school districts which have failed to comJ>ly. Fifteoen years later, those w:ho have siill not complied to the separate and unequal ruling are being given further opp()rtUnity to defy the 1954 decision. It is apparent that these are the districts which need to be <le alt with fmnly and :harshly for their failure to meet the standards of the Brown -vs. Board of Education ruling, rather than to be given more lenience. Attorney General John N. Mitchell and Robert H. Finch, Secretary of Health., Education and Welfare jointly issued the Administrations' statement on desegregation. They said that the new policy was drawn up in such a way that it would \improve rather than disru:pt, the education of the children concerned.\ But, what the administration has done in its new policy statement is to neglect completely the welfare and the education of bl!lck children. By granting lenience to school districts to contiaue segregation, Nixon has made it clear that he is not concemed with the education of blacks. The vagueness and o[)en interpretation of the new policy statement will m!lke desegregation of the Southern schools an increasingly more difficult task. As tll.e ~tatement stands now, it reads: ''That school districts n<Jt now in compliance are required to complete the Jlrocess of desegregation at the earliest practicable date.\ It is loopholes such as these which By WARDELL E. ROBINSON make hopes for desegregation empty. For many school districts, the \practicable date\ will never come, for they see desegregation as detrimental to their established way of life. The policy statement says that desegregation must be carried out by the 1969-70 school year. However, in some areas there may be just reason for delay. In this category, \only bona fide educational and administrative problems\ be taken into consideration. Again the vagueness an<'t. looseness of interpretation will hinder true desegregation rather than help it, as Nixon says. policy on desegregation which f1 · may not be apparent. That is the political pay back to Senator Strom Thrumond of '• ~~ South Carolina. 'Ihurmond was I very instrumental in gaining 1 votes for Nixon d.uring his campaign. Thurmond's party · • • change from Democrat to Republican was in itself a big step which influenced voters to ~ , 1 . back Nixon. Th.e bloc of Smltherners who voted for Nixon were anticipating some kind of pay off for their part in · ~ getting him into office. The school desegregation policy of the Nixon administration is part of this pay off. By doing '' this Nixon has let the people of the United States know that I Black people are second to )tJ currying political favor. Nixon Aside from the stated reason, to end racial discrimination as quickly as possible, there is another probable reason for the new sees it fit to appease the Southern political leaders at the high expense of the black ,. \I man's welfare. ! \Those who make peaceful revolution impossible make violent revolution inevitable.\ Published tue!day and Friday during the Union CoOege academic year by the Student Body of Union College, Schenectady, New York. Published Thursdays during the Upward Bound Project by Upward Bound students in residence at Union College. National Advertising Representative: National Educational Advdtising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative. 360 Lexington A venue, N. Y. C. Eaitorial Office. Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, Whitehurst Printing & Binding Co., Inc., 416-418 Fifth Ave., :Troy. 235-4450. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20c a copy; $6 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. NEILS .. KRAMER Editor-in-chief WARDELL E. ROBINSON MARCELLAL. STEWART Assistant Editor Assistant Editor LISA SCHOONMAKER Photography Editor STAFF: Ginny R. Knauer, Jim Armstead II, Keith Stinney, Nadine Collins, Bernice Starker, Anna Turner, Al Griffm. \ I ~ { cJI ~ ~­ ~.~1 ~ ~ t ! t I

PAGE.3 1969 JULY 10, 1969 PROSE and POETRY from UPWARD BOUND 'I t i I l which 411 · is to Skinny Kid I have lived with a skinny ldd. He appears to look weak but his power constantly amazes everyone. Although he's self conscious of his appearance, he tries to overcome his fear. Someday he'll be a really remarkable person in whatever field he chooses. -Gail Fitzpatrick A hot deserted desert The winds whispering through the scattered .shrubs The cry of bird~ overhead in search of prey The distinctive sound of an approaching horse A distant shot of '• ~1· was J The thunder ofhorses The bellowing of war cries An agonizing scream for help Predestined arrows fill the aii A bolt of lightning and a cloudburst mark the event Success for the attackers Victims left for the searching birds his party · •, to a big to 1 . of ~ for some -~~ . The of on is doing t• of that to 1n Nixon the at black ,. ll -~, i, t • ... 'If I -· l \ I Fading of traveling horses The wind and birds harmonize in grief Peace reborn. -Sue O'Rouke & ~ ( ,JI \- Oc \It j \ \ ., I or \1 r .~ :: ~1 I For the rest of the mmrner, Concordiensis plans to devote one page in each weeki;: zssue to the work that comes out of the Upward Bound creative writing courses taught by Mrs. Mimi Brodsky and Jon Fox. All of the work; that appears here is written by Upward Bound students in those three class~s. The,photo!Jfaphs,are courtesy of Union Book '69. I, You, We, They, It I who have nothing You who have everything. We who aren't satisfied They who have sorraw It's jJist a fact of life. Now NOW is red, black and white I who wish for you You who don't wish for me We who both need each other They who think I'm a fool It's just a fact of life~ -Erlene Rose Person Long smooth dark brown hair. Brown eyes a dimple on left cheek. Five feet five. Round smooth .shoulders with a birthmark on the back of her neck. Long graceful fmgers. Small mouth and nose. Long eyelashes and smooth knees. Small feet with grass stains on the ankles. Moderately dressed with bose fitting sweater blue jeans and sneakers. Has a habit of clicking her ,tongue. Carefree His arms flung meaninglessly. He walked his own speed. He was at ease. His mind was clear. He lingered along the beach for hours. He felt loose. He had no appointments or meetings. He worried where to get food when his time came. He worried about a place to sleep when he was tired. He lived each day unplanned. He had no dependents yet he was not alone. He followed his feet. -Sally Moses -Bill Turner Stilly 0 Moving A green mossy rock Warm summer air A breeze of wind A tumbling leaf Flutter of a wandering eye Steps of a destined pedestrian The hopping movement of a frog Children playing gleefully Slowly moving vehicle Screech of a busy bus Rumbling non-stop train Roaring way-out plane Tremendous zip of electricity! -Debora Williams Place-One This place is in the country where you fmd big and huge fields with bright green grass and trees in all kinds of sizes and shapes. Across the fields a wide river flows, giving th~ fields a fresh and colorful sight. On one of the banks of the riverside, there is a deer drinking water. The bright warm sunrays reflect the imag~ of the animal, which invites me to stop and admire such a beautiful scene. ·Fernando Martinez Place-Two The sky is glass; the earth iS a rainbow of colors, the ludewarm breeze kisses the tips of trees. The bil'ds fly through the air with the greatest of ease. The birds, the pigeon ... that nasty fowl of the air who makes his home within the evergrowing foliage- his own green mansion! The birds of that fortress are as free as the wind blows. But now leaves tly out, stems thrash about, feathers float to NOW is RFK, assassinations, Malcolm X NOW is Black Panthers~ uptight and Afro NOW is AB.M, SDS, student unrest NOW is poverty, Communism, Nixon's \Make no mistake about that\ NOW is cancer, LSD .and the common cold · Hell below. They're being invaded. Theil' kingdom is trespassed by a creature from far below. I, the creature, am searching for :solitude. Peace, no matter how dark and dingy that hole in the wall may be. I need e~ptiness to think. NOW is soul, brown sugar and \I'm Black and I'm Proud!\ NOW is E-bony, Jet uul freedom NOW is ICBM, The 30.MB and out-of-sight NOW is slang, Mod S<Juad and a clown on the moon -Paul T. Collins -Alonzo Bourne

' I '[ i . i PAGE 4 SUNYA Art Features 20 Pa:i nter Show The Art Gallery, State University of New York at Albany, reopened for its summer season July l. An exhibition entitled \Twenty Re presentational Painters\ occupies the gallery's main floor. \Twenty Representational Painters\ was organized by artist George Wexler of the art faculty, State University College at New Paltz. Among the painters represented are Fairfield Porter, Philip Perlstein, Lennart Anderson, Jane Freulich, Leland Bell, and Mr. Wexler. The spring restrospective of photography by Joseph Alper will be continued throughout the summer session in the Gallery Lounge. The late Mr. Alper was a faculty member at Albany and widely known for his photographs of musicians and architectural subjects. \Wall Hangings,\ an exhibit of contemporary weaving being circulated by the Museum of Modern Art, will be installed on the second floor of the gallery. The weavers represented in \Wall Hangings\ are from eight countries and share a concern with extending the f onnal techniques of weaving to create works of art. Unusual color, and adventurous use of traditional materials along with an interest in sculptural effects distinguish these works from traditional weaving with utilitarian purpose. \Protest Paintings\ by Edward Cowley will occupy the west galleries. This exhibit is an indoor version of Mr. Cowley's 1969 Hillside Show in Altamont, New York. The large paintings take a good natured swipe at contemporary culture and the smallest paintings· all sour lemons · speak for themselves. All of the above exhibitions will be in the Art Gallery until August 17. Preserve Director Appointed Dr. Robert C. Dalgleish, manager and director of the biological research station at the Edmund Niles Huyck Preserve, has been maned an assistant professor of biological sciences at Union, effective Sept. 1, Dr. Harold C. Martin, president of the College, announced. Manager of the Huyck Preserve research operation since 1966, Dr. Dalgleish will continue in that post while on the Union faculty. A 1962 graduate of San Diego State College, he took his doctorate at Cornell University in 1966. He is a member of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the American Institute of Biological Sciences, Sigma Xi, the Canadian Entomological Society, and the Organization of Inland Biological Field State. He is a fellow of the Royal Entomological Society. JULY 10, 1969 Comedy Key to Lake George Opera l i \Opera buffa,\ the Italian term for opera comedy, is the theme for the eighth season of the Lake George Opera Festival this yew. The season runs from July 17 through August 16 at the Festival Theater, Queensbury School, at Exit 19 off the Northway. Theme Because the unifying theme of \Shakespeare in Opera\ proved so successful last season, David Uoyd, General St. Clare's Donates Free Exams to UB ByM.STUART As part of their preventive medicin~ campaign, the staff of St. Clare's Hospital gave over $1000 worth of medical service in the fonn of free physicals to the sixty-five students in the Upward Bound Project. The grant was co-ordinated through the efforts of Mrs. G.B. Hildebrant, the emergency room supervisor and Mrs. Ann Cirincione, the home care supervisor. The aim of the program is to acquaint the students, some of whom may not be familiar with physicians and hospital care, with the medical services available to them. Many times there is a follow-up through the Department of Social Services if there is anything seriously wrong with the student. Oftentimes, the student conveys information to his parents and the family which because of poverty was unable to provide proper medical care for its members becomes aquainted with the ways and means by which it can get medical assistance. Some of the services provided include: the taking of blood specimens, urine specrrnens, and if needed, x-rays. The staff of St. Clare's also attends to therapy needs, and includes follow-ups arid referrals where necessary. Lax All-stars: Gould ancl DeMichele Don DeMichele, a senior from Utica, and Dan Gould, a sophomore from Stamford, were named to post-season all-star teams for their perfonnance on the Union lacrosse team. Both. are defensemen. DeMichele, a senior civil engineering and economics major, was honorably mentioned for Little all-America honors. Gould, a sophomore interdepartmental major, was named to the Central New York Division all-star team. In addition to the Union in the division are Syracuse, Hobart, Cortland, Colgate, and R.P.I. Both DeMichele and Gould missed part of the season with leg injuries. Director, decided on selecting another. unifying 'theme this year. And that's how the season .of \Opera Buffa\ was born. There are four evenings of opera including one double bill of Puccini's \Gianni Schicchi\ and Ravel's spicy \L'Heure Espagnole\. The other operas, all performed in repertoire, are Donizetti's \Don Pasquale\ Benjamin Britten's \Albert Herring\ and Richard Strauss's Prexy Coleman Ronald J. Coleman, in'Struc.tor in physical education at the College and coach of cross country, indoor and outdoor track, has been named president of the New York State Track and Field Association. A member of the Union faculty since 1966, h.e is a 1962 graduate of Springfield College. Math Names Asst. Prof. John A. Roulier has been named an assistant professor of rna the matics at Union, effective Sept. l, Harold C. Martin, president of the College, announced. A 1963 graduate of Siena College, Dr. Roulier took his doctorate at Syracuse in 1969. He comes to Union from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, where he was a post-doctoral research associate. I~ >!\·· hilarious \Ariadne auf Naxos\. All comedies, these operas .are all sung in English and the season promises to be the most ,popular in years. OpemGalas In addition to the regular four opera programs there will 'be two special Opera Galas, scheduled for July 29, and August 12. Subscribers receive a free ticket to the gala of their choice as a bonus· with each subscription. But there will be Philosophy Instructor Appointed Jan K. Ludwig has been named an instructor in philosophy, effective Sept. l, Dr. Harold C. Martin, president of the College, announced. Ludwig is a 1963 graduate .of Gettysburg College. He is presently working for his doctorate at The Johns Hopkins University. He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa and was a Woodrow Wilson Fellow, a Danforth Graduate Fellow, and an N.D.E.A. Title IV Fellow. He also is a member·of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the American Association of the University Professors, the Arne ric an Philosophical Association, the Philosophy of Science Association, and the Association for Symbolic Logic. Dan \Pup\ Gould's Shaffer Library activities did not result in his designation as an all-conference defenseman in la crosse. :But the sophmore out of Williston Academy found time for both, as he was the only Garnet stickman to make the fll'st team. single admission to 'these always · popular evenings of opera favorites for the general public. Tickets to aH .~~-\ perfoi'lllances are now on sale at local ticket offices and' at the Festiva•l Theater, Queensbmy School. J Fresh from his triumph in Berlin, Germany, comes ', handsome Rober.t Trehy. The ·· VOL. 99, 1\ young bwitone will be featured lJ in two of the works to be · .• l.tit Vo·lu• performed this season. f. Robert Trehy is equally at home in opera, oratorio, . s Gilbert & Sullivan and musical ' um111 comedy. Part of the new breed .. ~r'·.. · II of singer who considers all types of musica1 performance equally valid, he h.as even 1 Las t y recorded \Annie Get Your H~ Schwarz, A Gun\ in German after singing ~ of Electrical in the Berlin production of the ~··college, cam famous American musical .~ 1 ... of teachinl comedy. . students of Leading .Baritone \ computer cc In addition to appearing at suggested t< the international opera festivals 'iJ ' former din at Berlin and Amsterdam, Mr. : Bound, and Trehy has been singing leading ' in the pro~ baritone roles with the New 0 , 1 Schwarz, wl. York City Opera. He has • 1 of lnformat appeared in Kurt Weill's ; Science anc \Street Scene\ the American Computer S opera \Ballad of Baby Doe\ '•• .i \Capriccio\ by Strauss, as well as many of the standard opera works. • His performances have had ... _; excellent press notices in every major city in the country. He seems to be equally at home with Mozart, Puccini, Tschaikowsky, Verdi, Strauss, Britten. And the critics applaud his acting as well as his··~­ vocal skill. His artistry will be a welcome addition to the five-week season of the ~ Festival. Life-Income lnvestm·ent Fund Begi.ns Union College has.,. \j' TheN established a - high-yield .! against C investment fund for , Upward· life-income contracts, Harold '' ~~ School sc C. Martin, president of the College, announced. Dr. Martin said that Peter V. 'i I_,~ \\\-. T ~­ Ball, director of deferred giving \ . 1 , t: at the College, would administer the fund and life-income contracts. A life-income. contracts permits a person · to donate money to the fund and reeeive _ interest on a quarterly basis. At t.,; the death of the donor, or his inunediate benificiary, if any, the money invested in the fund \.l reverts to the College, Ball said. He added that life-income contracts are common among colleges and other private '- institutions. Union's Board of Trustees established the fund at approximately $250,000, to be broken into 25,000 shares with a par value of about $10 each. As gifts are made to the fund · _ the number of units and the dollar value will increase. Ball stated that under the present tax laws, these are many ' advantages for the donor in this type of gift to Union. An litera \'fiScher co-chai Democr group 'il tc and op Democr Torr ~studies School, Democ1 New Y ~The p: Se nat• Kennec plans t ~'theN.[ I The

of neral Founded at Union Col:leg_e /877 1 in J omes ', SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, JUl. Y 17,1969 PRICE TWENTY CENTS The ·· VOL. 99, NO. 3 11 .· . . . ., .~Volunteer Prof Tea,hes Racial Altitudes Discussed: \Upward Bound Is Together!\ s c . 1 ummer omputer C.ourse By EARLENE ROSE J By KEITH STINNEY even 1 Last year Theodore has volunteered to teach the There seems to be a very definite difference in the racial atmosphere in Union College's Upward Boumd Program as compared to the atmosphere ·in the various high scmools the stu dents attend. Interviews were taken from students of the area high schools to see what the difference is, and if there are any problems. The high schools that we are concerned with are: Mount Pleasant, Linton, Troy and Burnt Hills. he attends high school. \ ... The black people in this program are working on impr·ovements which will benefit both the blacks and the whites \ he said. \Some of the improvements have already started to take effect, for example: free study hours and going to bed later. Y ~ur 111 Schwarz, Associate Professor course himself each afternoon t of Electrical Engineering at the between3 :00 and 4:00. ~he ~college, carne up with the iclea The .prog~am is set up to ustcal .~ 1 , of teaching the interested teach students about modern . students of Upward Bound a high speed digital computers. \ computer course. The idea was The stud'ents can also work on at Mr. New has suggested to John P. Terry, their projects with guidance 4 1 : former director of Upward from a faculty member. As ~ Bound, and was implemented part of the program students : in the program this summer. are t.ll:Ught BAS I C, an ~·\Schwarz, who is also director elementary alegebraic ' ! of Information and Computer computer language; how to use i Science and Chairman of the the keypunch machines; and · Computer Science Committee, Continued on Page 4 '•' .i well opera every He home as his ·~· be a the the ~ Frank Isgro, an immigrant from I.taly who has not been in this country very long, said, '\the atmosphere which exists between whites and Negro is more .pleasant in the Upward Bound Program than it is over at Linton High School,\ where 2 Week-long Institutes Focuson415 Two short courses in computer methods are being offered for the first time by Union this summer. \Computer Methods in Vibration, Shock and General Structural Dynamics\ will be presented from Aug. 4-8, and '\Computer Workshop in Finite Element and Energy Methods in Structural Analysis\ will be given from Aug. 18-22. Enrollments for both courses are still open. G .E. Experts \This was only the work of the blacks and the only ones we can thank are the blacks. I hope in the near future that the white may collaborate as the black did in improving the program for the students.\ Carol Snedden of Burnt Hills High School feels \that since there aren't any black people or students in Burnt Hills High School, there isn't much to say. Although there is one black student in the Junior High School, I don't know the reaction to the students in the school towards the black students.\ \From my observations the students at Burnt Hills aren't prejudiced and I'm sure they would welcome blacks to join the student body.\ Together! has . \ \'I' The New Democratic Coalition is trying to represent people like these, shown here demonstrating , against George Wallace wlten he appeared in Albany in the 1969 campaigns. Schenectady (and for , . Upward Bound) were represented at a recent N.D.C. convention by Tom Murphy, a Linton High t, I' the .'· School social studies teacher. Photo: Union Book '69 Instructors for the first course, which is designed for engineers and others responsible for performing vibration and shock analyses, are: Everett E.. Zwicky, Jr., consulting engineer at General Electric's Materials and Process Laboratory; Samuel Levy,.· consultant on structures at the G .E. Research and Development Center; Neville F. Rieger, development engineer in G .E.'s Large Stearn Turbine and Generator Department; and Robert Plunkett, Professor o f M e c h an i c s in t he Aeronautics and Engineering Department of the University of Minnesota. To Debora Williams of Mont Pleasant High School \Upward Bound is together!\ Debora said, \'[ feel that the race situations between Upward Bound and Mont Pleasant differ immensely. Here at Upward Bound you can almost be sure that you will not> be put down or condemned because you are black, whereas in my high school, it seems that because you are black you can expect that in any situation your color will be the first thing thrown in your face.\ . 't-a and At 't., or his any, fund \.1 said. among private '- rustees at be with each. fund·· the Ball present many in \\New Liberal Splinter Group ,f Soc b It to the Democrats An Upward Bound literature teacher is ,;s c h e n e c t a d y C o u n t y co-chairman of the New Democratic Coalition, a liberal group which aims at reforming tc and opening the \tight-knit\ Democratic Party. Tom Murphy, a social ~studies teacher at Linton High School, joined 294 registered Democrats at a caucus held in New York City last Saturday. ~·The participants, backers of Senators McCarthy and Kennedy in 1968, discussed plans to form the structure of ~'the N.D.C. in this area. Liberalizing Party The members of the By BERNICE STARKER Coalition feel that not enough people have participated in the affairs of the Democratic Party, and are trying to enroll more people as members of the N.D.C. Labor groups, peace groups, minority groups (blacks and Puerto Ricans), and students, are to be given a larger voice than in the past. 'The N.D.C. has broken away from the Democratic Party through lack of agreement with the policies of the Party on the VietNam war, poverty and the racial situation. The Coalition opposes the Viet Nam war, believirtg that America had no tight to become involved and that honorable withdraw! is no longer possible. Poverty Problems The Democratic Party, in the opinion of this new political group, is not concentrating enough upon the problem of poverty in th.e U.S., and too much money is being spent in areas less important than poverty. The members of the N.D.C. also disagree with the Democratic policy on th.e racial si tuaticn, feeling that the well-being of the hlack is constantly declining, and that more should be done to deal with the problem. Structural Analysis The second course, which is designed for engineers and others responsible for performing structural analysis and desiring to use computer techniques, will be taught by Robert B. McCalley, manager of structural mechanics in Aircraft Engine Group of General Electric Company at Cincinnati; R:G. Fasiczka, consulting engineer for KP A Computer Techniques, Inc., Largo, Pa.; and Raymond Eisenstadt, Professor of Mechanical Engineering at Union; and Samuel Levy. The College is making dormitory rooms and meals available on campus for out-of-towners who wish to avail themselves of these facilities. The G.E. 415 Computer will be used in both institutes. A white girl from Troy High Continued on Page 4 Football Fete The Union College Alumni Association of New York City is working on plans. for a social gathering after the King's Point football ·game to be played at King's Point Or.tobcr 4, 1969. Details of this event will be made available to alumni, students, and friends of Union as they arc finalized.

PAGE 2 Disadvantaged: The Wrong Word. Tlle Upward Bound students at Union are ending . their third week on the campus now, and the students at Skidmore who are participating in the HOPE program are finishing the second week of their summer program. After just this brief exposure to these people, we are convinced that simple descqptions of these very complex folks simply do not !:told water. At Union, as across the country, the word \disadvantaged\ is used most often to descrihe the kinds of people that HOPE and Upward Bound attempt to work with. But we have not seen a satisfactory operational definition of disadvantaged, · and we think that HOPE and Upward Bound students can be described in a simpler, yet more accurate way. These two compensatory programs, though they are inevitably involved in politics on every level, from the f<!deral government to faculty council, have solely an eclucational purpose: to prepare young people who are likely high school drop-outs to gear themselves toward college. The basic assumption here is that in the first instance these kids are not headed toward college for the wrong kinds of reasons: atrocious conditions in public schools, deteriorated family situations, poverty, racial prejudiced and more. So far, no one has come up with a successful program that solves these kinas of programs on a mass scale. But Upward Bound does do the job for the people it reaches. This September, the first class of Upward Bound graduates will be entering college-- 31 out of 35 in the group have been accepted at colleges or advanced traininl!, schods. All have received sufficient financial assistance to matriculate. We expect that Project HOPE will have the same kind of success, although the first year operation has been somewhat hampered by the late date at which fund.ing was guaranteed. But the key thing to keep1 in mind here is that these programs deal with adolescents who have absolutely no political power: fifteen, sixteen, and seventeen-year-olds. Words like disadvantaged, disenfranchished, or poverty children have no real relevance because it is not accurate to describe what hapr-ens to the students in these programs in political terminology. .. Those who make peaceful revolution impossible make violent revolution i11evitable.\ Publi~ed lueruay and Friday duri~ the Union College acaden~ic year by the Student Body of Union College, Schenectady, New York. Publiriled Thursdays during the Upward Bound Project by Upwa1\d Bound students in residertce at Union College. Na tfonal Advertising Representative: National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative. 360 Lexington A venut Y. C. Editorial Office. o.Jid Gym, Union College. Publication Office, Whitehurst Printing & Binding Co., Inc., 416418 Fifth Ave., 7Toy. 235-4450. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Cli1$S Mail Matter. Subscription 20c a copy; $6 a year delivered anywhere in the United State~>. NEIL S. KRAMER Editor-in-chief WARDELL E. ROBINSON MARCELLA L. STEWART Assistant Editor Assistant Editor LISA SCHOONMAKER SUSAN FORER Photography Editor Consulting Editor STi\FF: Ginny R. Knauer, Jim Armstead II, Keith Stinney, Nacline Collins, Bernice Starker, Anna Turner, AI Grifrm. JULY 17, 1969 IN PERSPECTIVE: Nixon mul Black Education It appears that many people; among them is the Nixon Administration, assume that desegregation of the schools is the single factor which will improve the education -of black children. However, while desegregation will in some ways facilitate the learning process for these children, this assumption is not entirely true. There are many factors which must be taken into account, a:nd which must be adjusted before the black child can have a meaningful education which will reflect his life and his relationship to the rest of society. White Supremacy Myth First of all, in order to make education meaningful for the black child, the educational system must be restructured. As it stands now, the system a white supremacist philosophy. Granted, the all -white schools are better equipped and staffed than thei:: counterpart in the ghetto, and most likely by desegregating them, blacks will inherit some of their material comfort. But, by retaining the same kind of teaching system, the young, black child will continue to suffer from the detrimental effects of a system that reinforces the myth of white supremacy. It is therefore mandatory that these material gains take a secondary position to that of the creation of black awareness classes. This approach will give the child a sense of pride in his blackness and a sense of \being'' that will enable him to cope effectively with the challenges of this modern world. Students Apprehensive Hand in hand with the idea of instilling racial pride in the black youngster, is the need for instituting a program to help him adjust academically to his new c:uTriculum . in the desegregated school. Many black children have been only among black people all their lives. When they are suddenly confronted with the idea of entering a By WARDELL E. ROBINSON desegregated school, they have deep apprehensions about being p•laced in this type of foreign situation. One reason for this apprehension is that the black child has beenbrain- washed by the white supremacist ideology. When facing a situation which involves whites, as immediate as the class room, the black child may feel inferior as a result of this perp·etual brain- washing. A second explanation of this apprehension is related to the fact that the black child has not had an education which is as thorough as that of the white child. While the white child generally has good new facilities, and well trained teachers, the black child has· been lacking both. Therefore, academically, the black child is behind the whit€ child. This disparity increases as the child becomes older. It is imperative to rectify this UB Top 20 Soul Sound Survey 1. My Cherie Amour • SteVIe Wonder 2. Mother Popcorn · James Brown 3. Doggone Right - Smokey Robinson & The Miracles 4. Abraham, Martin, and John -Moms Mabley 5. Choice of Colors - The Impressions 6. Wbat Does It Take to Win Your Love -Jr. Walker & The All Stars 7. I'd Rather Be an Old Man's Seeetheart -Candi Stanton 8. I Turned You On - The Isely Bros. 9. I Can Sing a Rainbow - The Dens 10. Moody Woman - Jerry Butler 11. So I Can Love You- The Emotions 12. Too Busy Thinking About My Baby- Marvin Gaye 13. Color Him Father - The Winstons 14. Working a Groovy Thing - The Fifth Dimensions 15. Don't Let the Joneses Get You Down -The Temptations 16. Didn't You Know You'd Have Cry Sometimes - Gladys Knight & The Pips 17. I Really Hope You Do - The Friends of Distinction 18. I'm Still a Struggling Man- Edwin Starr 19. It's My Thing - Marva Whitney 20. No Matter What Sign You . 4te - Diana Ross& The Supremes situation for the older youngster, especially, before placing him in the integrated setting. A solution to counteract the white supremacist brain-washing may come through black a w a r e n e s s c I as s e s . However, it is important to begin these classes at an early age. The second situation, that of academic inferiority resulting from poor teaching and poor facilities must be corrected through stepped up and intensified teaching programs which will put him on an equal plane with the well-taught white child. Pride In Blackness By achieving these ends, hopefully much of the inferiority instilled within the black child will be eliminated. When the · black child feels that he can function as well as, if not better than the white child in the classroom, then and only then is desegregation a positive· vehicle through which Anger is tw Anger is a c Anger is a c Anger is or Anger is aj Anger is hi Anger is a 1 Two Looking a1 myself Alone desp ·The noisele coming upo Fear surro e d u c a t i on c an b e which stron worthwhile. Now Iooki11 Nixon Holds Off minutes we AI h h h N' Since I star t oug t e 1xon \ .. •Since l. star Administration has seen fit · 1 Two minll to extend desegregation Has never 1 deadlines in some cases, it , . . Two minu1 was done for the wrong Will alway reasons. The racist nature of the United States is. reflected in Nixon's · .; desegr::!gation policy statement. As ·previously stated, it seems that the 1 ·• Administration incorrectly assumes that desegregation of schools will ipso facto improve the education of black children. Therefore, it can be concluded that if ') this is truly what the Nixon Administration feels, then by holding back 'lt the desegregation process of Southern schools, the Ad mini strati 0 n is \, J' Sou deliberately perpetrating the separate and unequal school system. Positive steps must be j taken to counteract the psychological and ~ ~ academic problems in the American educational system. Unfortunately, the • •· Nixon Administration has not seen fit to take one of The Blac soul thin St01 Pan Ove The the most fundamental: J t1 Mrs. Mi in the. immediate and meaningful desegregation. Union

ally, the se s. an from poor and put these of will the· he as, if 1 is be ~~~;MI··Q; u,_ Anger Anger is two people fighting/screaming bloody faces. Anger is a cop with helmet, billy club, Black Militant Anger is a disgusted black man, race riot, fire, sirens, stores smashed Anger is organ/harpsicord, kettle drums Anger is a jail cell, tears, electric chair Anger is bitter tree bark, hard stone Anger is a swearing clenched fist, blood .... · Bruce Sykes Two Minutes Looking at a mirror l see myself Alone desperate I seem to be ·The noiseless foot of Time is coming upon me. Fear surrounds a Creature which strong used to be 120 Seconds The beating of my heart is throbbing through my body. I am a .prisoner of my own body concealed by a mass of flesh. The clock is ticking off seconds, robbing me of my time to live . For life is merely a stop-off, where I may be tested in certain circumstances. The blood oozing through me is carrying life to different parts of my body. PAGE 3 Where We Are Now ... Oh, son. Where we are now ... won't alway·s be like this. I wish I could make you understand, but now ... would be worthless to even start the never ending statement ... But I'll pull us through ... You ~u go to school, you'll be a man ... You see, son. But now, now we must fight [rom within 'cause that's where its gonna matter, not to anyone- but now, we gotta make it work, to be happy inside ... then ... then. .. then. .. son ... Lisa Schoonmaker Beauty and Science It's a beautiful morning and I'm glad to be alive to enjoy it. l see the red, green and white colors of the flowers and l ~e~l th~ wa~ rays of a mid-July sun. To my .foreground, a new buildmg 1s bemg erected and I hear the sounds of hammers, buzz saws, cranes and bulldozers mixed in the whistling of the wind through the trees and the faint tweeting of bird calls. A Friend Someone you can trust all the time. A buddy in a fight helping you all the way. Someone who won't take your money, food, women or clothing. A guy who will let you borrow his freak silk suit with shoes to match without asking questions ... James Armstead Bryon Jackson OldMan He's tall and thin. Very grey hair. His eyes show tiredness and knowing that death is near. But yet he walks proud. He is lonely. Y or can tell by the hidden smile waiting to be shown to a friend ... Jane Frith Now looking at the watch. two minutes went by Since I started thinking en fit · 1 ·:Since l started dreaming My eyes are mirrors reflecting images of the present. Who knows maybe we are as tiny as ants and Two minutes which mankind Has never learned to use. it Two minutes which all of us Will always lose. Frank Isgro maybe we're being examined through a microscope. I ask questions about myself and can't come up with answers. Why I am alive, what is my purpose and why me? John Frasier Footsteps-Voices i~ · ously the facto of if Footsteps run across the road Voices, controlled, muffled in small abodes Photo the the is \,. Jl s l OU is now. That's what's happening. The sound of the Black Generation. st be the J ro'· Black Power is Soul. James Brown is soul. Soul means No.l Soul. It's your thing. SOUL is brother like the Black Stone Rangers in Chicago and the Black Panthers in L.A. and We Shall Overcome. K W'll' . enny 1 tams Shadows, fall in long thin lines Me, waiting for happiness from OldMan Time Footsteps- Voices- Shadows- Me A clunk and a tap you know what it is Talking and laughing in our midst Reflections of visions on many walls Waiting and hoping when good fortune falls Footsteps- Voices- Shadows- Me Ginnie Barnard The wet face of someone in sorrow: A tear slowly creeps down her cheek Her eyes are Wide open as if trying to Welcome someone to come and comfort her. Joe Tumonis and the the n has of ~ .. . The short pieces of writing on this page are products of the creative writing courses taught by 1 ~' Mrs. Mimi Brodsky and Jon Fox in the Upward Bound Project. Each weekly issue ofConcordiensis 1 , in the summer will contain some of the work from those classes. The photographs are courtesy of · . Union Book '69. Down the Highway Traveling down the highway catching a glance at everything I can see. Seeing the cows grazing in the grass, the birds flying swiftly in the front of the bus. Going at a speed unbearable. Taking the curves with caution. Reaching your destination. You've had it! Carolyn Taylor

PAGE 4 JULY ~7, 1969 Modern Dance Program Offered by Toga Theatre l : l '' .) Children like these are the concern of FAMILIES FOR THE FUTURE, INC., an organization promoting adoption and foster care of children without regard to race, religion, ethnic or cultural origin, age and physical or mental condition. On Saturday, July 19 Families for the Future will hold an all-day covered-dish picnic at Knowles Flat in Thatcher State Park. Participants are invited to bring their families. relatives and friends. Further information may be obtained from Mrs. Victor Grant and Mrs. Donald McCollum. UB Plans Montreal Trip By GINNY KNAUER Next Thursday sixty Upward Bound students, their counselors, the staff, and certain guests will leave for Montreal by bus. They plan to leave early Thursday morning and return late that night. The students were given a choice between Montreal and Boston and the majority preferred Montreal. They intend to visit \Man and His World,\ where many of the exhibits from Expo '67 have been preserved. Each student will be given a box lunch and admission ticket. Several activities have been planned by the students to raise money for a longer stay in Montreal. One of these is a dance Sunday night. The dance is to be open and refreshments will be available. A Theater of Modern Dance is to be held by the Capital Area Modern Dan~e Council at the Saratoga Summer Theater from July 28 through August 23. Daily classes will be combined with three weekends of modem dance concerts and special master classes. Paul Sanasardo, director of CONTRIBUTIONS AND LETTERS FOR PUBLICATION IN THE SUMMER CONCORDIENS.IS SHOULD BE MAilED TO: Ccnf cordi e n sis Union College Schenectady, New York 12308 Because many memben of the Union faculty are away from the College Grounds during the summer, the Concordiensis will be mailed to their homes for the rest of the summer. We will not malce large scale deliveries to the faculty offices crny longer during the summer. Summer people at the College are encouraged to take copies of the Concordy without charge. Financial support from the Office ofSpecial Programs covers the cost of the newsp([[Jers. N.Y. Covers Out-of-Work Students Daytime college students who work outside of school hours or during vacations were reminded today that they are now protected by unemployment insurance. Calling attention to this broadened coverage of the Unemployment Insurance Law, State Industrial Commissioner M. P. Catherwood said it also applies to working students who attend trade and specialized schools other than high schools. The changes in the law became effective July I. Work done by the students on and after that date will be credited as covered employment for unemployment insurance purposes. A minimum of 20 weeks of covered employment is required to initiate a claim for benefits. As in the past, high school students remain outside the unemployment system. insurance Commissioner Catherwood pointed out that the legislation gives the newly-covered student the same protection against involuntary unemployment that is provided to the vast majority of other workers in the State, including students who attend school at night. \In broadening the scope of the law, the Legislature and the Racial Attitudes Discussed Continued from page I believes strongly that \black is emphasised more in Upward Bound than in Troy High. Being black or white is not the main issue when discussing any topic in Troy High. Here it is as shown in Mr. Murphy's Literature class.\ The girl also explained that the negro race is always conscious of color in Upward Bound rather than their feeling as a fellow being. Wears Off Another student who attends Troy High School who was interviewed was George Moses, a black student of Troy High. \Those who come to the program may be prejudiced when they arrive, but after being here and seeing how the blacks really are, they don't stay that way.\ George said, \before I came here, I didn't care about Blacks and whites. To me I just don't associate with white people. I don't know how they think or act. But, then I learned all the things about the blacks and why they hate the whites. \I also learned how whites try to get on a front and say they're your frien<i.:.-. They know we're going to make it to the top, and they want to make sure that we don't forget that they helped us get there. When the blacks do make it they better not plan on keeping it because, the whites are going to be right there waiting to take it over. Union College is a good place to come to learn school work and your social background.\ Governor have taken cognizance of the fact that many young ,people attending colleges and specialized schools today are a different breed from the student of earlier years,\ Commissioner Catherwood observed. \They are older and more likely to be on their own. Very often, they are married and have family obligations. Employment is a necessity for them and the loss of a job is a severe blow. Now, like other workers who are genuinely attached to the labor market, they will have something to fall hack on in time of need.\ Explaining the basis on which benefits will be paid, Commissioner Catherwood said that a student who loses his job and claims unemployment insurance must meet the legally-prescribed eligibility tests. To qualify for benefits, he must have worked on a job or j o b s covered by unemployment insurance in at least 20 of the 52 weeks before ftling his claim, he must be out of work through no fault of his own, and he must be ready, willing and able to accept any suitable job offered to him. \ the Theater of Modern Dance, 1 will conduct the classes in •r; technique, seminars, and ' repertory workshops with the : j help i>f his company. Classes i .• are 10r both children and fi adults, and are open to ! ! observers on Wednesdays. Reserve seats are available for the concert series, which will be given by the Alvin Ailey Dance Theater on Augl:lst 2 and 3, by the Repertor·y Dance Theater of Utah on August 9 and 10, and by the Paul Sanasardo Dance Compa-ny oR August 16 and 17. This is' the first performance of the Repertory Dance Theater of Utal1 east of the Rockies. On August I a special workshop for teachers, supervisors, and administrators will be presented with the assistance of the New York State Education Department. Lecture-demonstrations and panel discussion on modern dance are planned, to be given by Paul Sanasardo and Alvin Ailey. Union Joins Conservancy Union College became the first institution to hold a life membership in the Nature Conservancy when Dr_ Harold C. Martin, president of the college, presented a check for $300 to Dr. George R. Cooley of Albany, president of the group. VOL. 9~ OltA Cot Charles the Comp program, members c complete different .5 11 that ' year. Th€ allowed choices f and instru \Since mathem2 backgrour widely, i1 to allow choose possible,\ a coverin: the Class The d the 21 ! five pag single spl is from 1 length de script The Nature Conservancy is a national organization whose purpose is to hold and protect properties of unusual natural significance. The land titles are transferred to the Nature Conservancy and it theq becomes responsible for the upkeep and protection of the areas. College what s:t covered, the inst11 will be . }} ·, in terms examina also inc faculty section. Other local properties currently held by the Nature Conservancy include the Lishakill natural area in Niskayuna which is valued for a stand of white pine dating from before the Americafi Revolution. By joining in this agreement with the . Nature Conservancy, the college also gains access to the other natural areas and is presently using them for biological research. Computer· Course Continued from page 1 how the computer itself operates. If time permits, the students will study the pdnciple of digital computers and its application top roblems in school and industry. TI1e college has granted pennission for student use of the General Electric 415 computer as the students are licensed student computer operators. Seier been a Ed cur ratings course ( 41 on~ and 10( By rating Tw variou State the ~ and Ia -· I' prohl \ Relati areas politi1 histor Til of ec1 direc1 prog-r State New Inter Servi1 Tl

'· 1969 : j I ..... ., d Dance, '1 ;ses in •I ., and 'II ~ /:J 8 ith the : t-o 1ege 1 77 ;la!~eJ n ~~-----~----------~~--------------------------------------------------~--~-------------------------------------------- Union en to , VOL. 99, NO.4 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, JULY 24, 1969 PRICE TWENTY CENTS ). railable which 1 Ailey gust 2 Dance lgust 9 : Paul iny OR ·is' the f the ter of special ::hers, trators h the York tment. and 1odern ~ given Alvin lS cy 1e the a life -.Jature iarold i[ the ;k for :ooley ,f the i. I ;y is a whose ·}l rotect atural les are Jature then r the )f the ,erties ~ature the a in ~d for :lating ~ricaii r1 this rature ~· also other >errtly ogical 'IIi Olton ;Offers Freshmen Prof~ Course Clwice In Comp Ed 11 By NEILS. KRAMER Charles Olton, direc t0r of the Comprehensive Education program, last week sent all members <Jf the Class of 1973 a complete description. of the dit:ferent sections of C()fl1P Ed 11 that will be offered next year. The freshmen will be allowed to indicate their choices for specific sections and instructors. \Since the sciea tific and mathematical interests and background of students varies widely, it seems wise and fair to allow each freshman to c boose his section, where possible,\ Prof. Olton wrote in a covering letter t<J students in the Class of '73. The descriptions of each of the 21 sections cover almost five pages, typewritten and single spaced. Each description is from two to three times the length of the course descriptions found in the College catalog and indicate what !>ubjec t areas will be covered, what the approach of the instructor will be, and what will be required fre>m students ·, in termsofpapers,quizzes, and by the history department last winter was 42, higher than the best rating for any Camp Ed 11 section during that term. Premilinary returns ffQm the spring term ·C<Jllrse evaluation indicate that although Comp Ed 11 i.s still something of a step-child in the curriculum, the situation has improved. Better in Spring Relyi.ng solely on the total mean course rating on the 0 to 100 scale, spring term Scientific Concepts sections were rated higher by the Union Grad To Teach German students than those in the winter term. With 75 percent of the enrolled students responding from the eight sections of Camp Ed 11 taught las:t spri.ng, the range of ratings was from 22 to 72. The overalJ nting, which was determine<! by tallying all of the ratings given by the 113 students who c o m p 1 e t e d t h e c o u rs e evaluation, was 45. By comparison, !he mean rating for courses in general engineering taught during the spring term was 65. General engineering courses i.nclude most basic course in th .. at area and are taken mostly by freshmen. Eighty nine percent of the 1 S 1 students enrolled in general engineering courses completed the cuurse nting. Inquiry and Articulation Camp Ed 10, the companion course tG Scientific Concepts, which is taught by faculty from the Humanities and Social Sciences and concerns itself with !U()des of Continued o11 page 4 I . ,, l ~ . . f ~-,,o Ron IannOtti, Union '69, discusses advanced topics in high school math With Sylvester Jones, a second year Upward Bound student. Mr. fannotti contributes his services to the program as a math tutor four aftemootts a week. Photo by: Li,a K. Schoonmaker examinations. The descriptions also include the name of the faculty who will teach each section. Anton R. Warde has been appointed an instructor in modern languages at Union, effective Sept. 1, Dr. Harold C. Martin, president of the College, announced. Warde is a 1964 gradu~te of Union, with an M.A. in 1966 at the University of Nebraska. While at Union, he won the Elias Peissner Prize for being the senior most proficient in Germanic studies. Ron I.annotti -'69 Volunteers WeakLiak Scientific Concepts have been a weak link in the Comp Ed curriculum. The range of ratings in the wiater term course evaluation ran from 6 to 41 on~ scale of 0 for the worst and 1 ()Q for the best course. Daily As U .B~ Math Tutor by LISA K. SCHOONMAKER By comparisoll, the worst rating for any course offered He is a member ofDeltaPhi Alpha, the Modern Languages Association, and the American Association of Teachers of German. Warde is a native of Gloversville. Who's Thl'oating Now? Ron Iannotti, a 1969 Union graduate, has 'iolunteered his time to tutor Upwar-<1 Bound students i.n math foar days a week for three hours a day. Mr. Iannotti was. a big man on campus during his five years here. Captain of the wrestling ream and the first man to win the ICAC wrestling title three years :ii1 ~ ro'w, he was also a freshman orientation counselor ... N.Y. Faculty Learn Quantitalive Metlwds By EARLENE ROSE for two years and was a member of Sigma Chi. Ron started out as a mechanical engineering major, but after taking a course in psychology decided that he could be more, and do more for other people, in the field of psychology. · Impressed with U.B. In the mornings he works at G.E., and of his afternoons here says \It's good to see kids arguing over a math problem or debating on a creative writing assignment.\ The program in general impresses him. ••It seems to me that the kids really want to work.\ ., .• 'II-- Twelve profe~>csors from various colleges in New York State are taking coarses here in the ~pplication of computer and statistical rrtethods to problems in 'International Relations. The main subject areas of their course work are political science, economics, history, and sociobgy. part in this program li-ve {)n the Union College Gre>uads in Davidson House. The program will last for six weeks and will end August 1 . Three of the stu<lents at the institute are not used to sitting at the back of a Union College classroom. Profs. Robert Sharlet, Charles Gati, and Bryon Nichols are students this summer, picking U:p the quantitative approaches to international relati<Jns that their previous training <lid not inc lade. a.pprecitttion of -quantitative literature to enable them to introduce this liteuature into their teaching and retearch. The seminars are also intended to aid the participants to develop their ability to undertake quantitati'¥e research for themselves. There are lectures, seminar meetitl!;S, and workshops which offer each partiCipant an opportunity to work with those methods and materials which fit ti1eir area of study. provide a run· treatment of statistical theory and its applicatio.ti, including distribution, sampling, tests of hypotheses, .regression, and experiment:ll design. The second course is in game theory and model building, and includes institute in lnternat'l Relations, to some preliminary treatment of matrix algebra. In the fall Mr. Iannotti plans to attend Hollins College, working toward a Masters degree in psychology, and he forsees a possible career in teaching, with a doctorate in psychology or math. itself >,the the ,uters )]ems The iss ion meral s the tdent jp) \ Thomas Kershner, instructor of economics at 1he College, is director of the in.stitute. The program is sponsored by the State Education Department of New York, Center for International Programs and Services. The twelve proressors taking The institute includes seminars in which the participants learn a critical There are extel\s:ive courses in statistics which meet five times a week for the six weeks of the institute. They also Several seminars each week are devoted to ·a critical appraisal of tfie quantitative literature . in international relations, research techniques, surveys of elhpitical data and their accessibility, stimulation, and rt:~arch design. Hopes to Join VISTA He and his wife are also interested in joining VISTA together, and if accepted will both go to Virginia. But, like so many other young men, he is emminently draftable, a condition which makes solid plans for the future difficult.

PAGE 2 .,IULY 24,1 MOONSHOT VIEWED: \ ' About a was very ''This Accomplishment Disgusts Me\ '1 remember .. It start1. tomorrow! .... ] his real naJ he cou!dn' Man on the moon is. a fantasy dream which has finally come true. It is another big step which the scientists have achieved. One thing that bothers me is when I hear some .guys say that what they did was wrong and that· they should have spent the money on domestic affairs. I can only say this to them, . that what we accomplished today is what Reaction to landing on the .moon: I don't see where the U.S. gets. the money for things Uke this when we have a million and one problems. But I'm glad we're the first ones up there if rockets and such are going to be shot down at earth. door to th. , was white I Bobbie an ' way to go beforeith ANNA TURNER ·t~· .from .the {J Sur:pliis money can not even accomplish here on .... __ .. drowned .. Earth. Civilization is something which cannot be stopped and space exploration is a ll!l~l:f:;~ branch of it. But civilization cannot be kept up to date for all people. And even if we didn't go in space exploration, do you think that problems here at home would be solved? IMPOSSIBLE! I feel as though man hasn't solved his problems at home let alOI'!e carry these some place else. And I think it's a shame! J (That is n. FRAI\lK ISGRO · 1 think it was wonderful. I feel that through studying the moon we can learn something · about the history of the Earth because the two are related. I never thought that we would reach the moon in my life time because I believe that getting to the moon is the first step in exploring the universe. [ only wish that this feat could have been accomplished with a united world instead of just by our country. BERNICE STAFlKER CAROLYN TAYLOR I think that it was a bad move when we started the space exploration in the first place. Not because of the money it costs but because \man\ has become so barbaric that he will now probably get to the moon and pollute it with all his problems and rot. SUSAN PARKER I think it was a very good flight. It seems to look like a science fiction movie when shown on T.V. ANON. I personally feel that they could have spent the money on a worthy cause such as poverty. People feel a great deal of pride but I can't help knowing that here are people starving to death, dying of disease and can't be helped. I really am shocked at the fact that they are ignoring these unfortunate people and spending billions of dollars on the moon. Moonshot. Man is on the Moon. Not that it solves any problems. Mart is still starving and man is still dying for useles reasons. Behind the irony of it all I feel a certain awe and also a twi11ge of envy. Not for the fame or glory but because it almost seems a part of me, The part that wants to explore and discover. I think that the man in the moon is a great ·mistake, and the world will definitely be punished. All of this moon junk is for the birds, and I feel that if we can go and conquer some other planet, before we can help our own, that we are a sorry, sorry world and we don't deserve shit!! ANON. I think that man landing on the moon, is the greatest thing mankind has done yet. Maybe when they inspect these rocks and things they found, they could do something about people living up there. This may not happen in our generation but the next. Some nation or all nations will combine to build cities on the moon, and put people up there who now live in starving and overpopulated cities. Maybe some<lay I too will set foot on the moon. All the ages of myths, legends, science fiction stories have finally come to this. l feel it is a glorious moment. Not for monkies but f!>r me. It is hard for me to explain why I feel this is so but 110 harder to explain why I was created and who I am. Now that man has the moon, I am anxious to see how long he will have it and what will he do with it. Will he turn it into a tiUe benefactor of mankind or will his touch mean destruction and sickness as it has so many times before? Man has landed on the moon and I have no feelings of joy or emotion. This accomplishment disgusts me more than anything else because now billions of dollars more shall be focused on space while my Black Brothers and other minority groups still suffer the misfortune of the Ghetto. I hate the way the United States is spending her money. I am absolutely against man's landing on the moon and I believe something tragic is going to happen to him during his future space voyages. RICHARD Dl CAPRIO \Those who make peaceful revolution impossible make violent revolutio11 i11evitable.\ Published Tuesday and Friday during the Union College academic year by the Student Body of Union College, Schenectady, New York. Published Thursdays during the Upward Bound Project by Upward Bound students in residence at Union College. N a tiona! Advertising Representative: National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 360 Lexington Avenue, N.Y.C; Editorial Office, Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, Whitehurst Printing & Binding Co., Inc., 416-418 Fifth Ave., Troy. 235-4450. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second 'Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20c a copy; $6 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. NEIL S. KRAMER Editor-in-Chief WARDELL E. ROBINSON MARCELLA L. STEWART Assistant Editor LISA SCHOONMAKER Assistant Editor SUSANFORER Photography Editor Consulting Editor STAFF: Ginny R. Knauer, Jim Armstead II, Keith Stinney, Nadine Collins, Bernice Starker, Anna Turner, AI Griffin, Earlene Rose. BILL TURNER BRYON JACKSON To the Editor SFSC Gater Needs C~h This is basically an appeal for help. You may have heard about a·c tin g p resident S .I. H ayakawa's attempt to suppress the Gater this year. But you might not have heard that we were able to beat the combined forces of Hayakawa and Regan and keep publishing independently-- at least for the tirue being. It's become clear that the Gater will never again be funded by the administratio,n or the student government, which is now controlled by the administration, so we're writing to other student papers to ask for help to get us started on a firm independent footing. We still have a lot of unpaid bills, and we· have the prospect of next year's bills looking us in the face ... and any amount of money you could give llfS W()uld be greatly appreciated. There's really n·o r~son why a student paper can'.t pay for itself on advertising alone, if it can get started. I hope you can help us-- you never know, it might be y()ur paper that needs help ne:xt. We'd also 'like to exchange papers with you. Please write if . MOVIES Upward Bound invites you to: Wednesday, july 30 at 2 p.m. in SS016 \Rebel Without a Cause\ Wednesday, August 6 at 2 p.m. in SS()i6 · ~'The Caine IVlutiny''' . Open . to the College Community. No Charge. you want to do that. Enclosed are a few of our ! summer issues, to give you an IV\, .. idea of what we're doing. The r June 20: jssue, w!}.ich explains · our situation a little more, is\ r t • incorrectlY dated. As you can see, we're experimenting with more ,. political\ cgverage aimed at the\ 1 \'' off-campus community this : summer. What do you think of / it? I thought you might be ; interested in some of it,\1> . c especially the extensive ··· reporting of the recent SDS national convention, which the . 1 ; () \establishment press\ really i got confused. : Thanks in advahce .for any help you can give us .. even if'~> 1 , .i it's only $10 or $15 --because we need it badly. I'm looking forward to hearing from you. Sincerely, Greg deGiere Editor ~ \ ., STJ The [era a mouse The hug a skinny The bri13 Little dL The bul. Skinny Bigroat A Volk~ The thu The drc The bet The sol-< A man' A tap I' The ter A bite\ - A Abl Af::J Asl Ab The At Ab Ar AI= Ar ,, ' ....

one ones be NER his some we first but that ms to when great ly be the and e can sorry no This than my tto. I nding his j ~ ·tr. J J I ~ I, ' JULY 24, 1969 Excerpt From \A Fairy Tale\ About a hundred years ago it was 2069. In the new world that was very old about one day or one million years, I can't remember ... It started the day aft~r yesterday pr was it the day before tomorrow? Anyway, Torn, the boy everybody called Bobbie, but his real name was Edward, was crawling along the ground, because he coaldn~t walk because his wings were broken, when the tower door to 'the Giant's place broke dpen. Out stepped Mr. Black, who was white all over and blank in the mind. Mr. Black grabbed Bobbie and made him the Tom in the King's castle. Ed had a hard way to go-him and his title Tom. One day, it seemed like two days before it happened, the hut full of old men, came and saved Bobbie from the giant. Sur:pliise! They threw him in the Enchanted Lake where he drowned ... (That is not the end of the story) ,.-. Skip Jameison STRONG & weak Two Minutes I can hear the sound of bells and the muffled sound of talking that fades slowly only to become nothing. My mind is empty with only occasional quick thoughts das'hing through. I look around. The campus is a beautiful sight The early morning sun over the Schaffer Library radiates down on me and stings my flesh to ache. The wind is cool at my back bringing me the scent of pine shrubs and flowers. My mind drives back to this scene but only for a second. Then again, I hear the distant sounds of men at work building. I taste nothing but dry tobacco and smoke wafts into my nostrils. The sun shoots partially behind a cloud and I hear an aircraft overhead. The ferocious gigantic lion a mouse The huge elephant a skinny fish. The bright sun. Little dark. The bullies who go forbad. Skinny Tommy. Big roaring thundering truck. A Volkswagen. The thunder roars and lightning strikes. The drop of a pin. The beating of kettle qrnms The sound of clicking gum. A man 's punch. A tap from a two year old. The terrifying strangling of a snake. A bite from an ant. Keith Stinney Al Griffin of our I rv!'., you an j The !' .,l· explains more, is·\> t • we're more at the\' • .r• this , think of ) be 1 _ of it \ll :. 0 · SDS the •v ·t' really I .for any l A Blade .of Grass, A Ray of Sun A blade of grass A falling star A shining moon A boy and girl The sign of lpve A blade of grass,, a ray of sun. A blade of grass Again the breeze A gust of wind A blade of grass, a ray of sun. A blade of grass A ray of sun. A Harne of fire Love is gone PAGE 3 LOVE Love is the best thing that can happen to you. Love is two blue birds singing in the summer. Love is liking someone so much you will do anything for her. Love is just not a word. It's a feeling you never \vant to lose. Barry Williams LetteTs From The Earth Fellow Satans: As I observe this planet called Earth, I must say it's a very fine place to live. I'm ~tand~g her~ in Viet Nam where this great circus is going Blood splattenng, fll\e dymg (ah ha- more people to come to stay with us) and they're doing just what we want. I _must tell you- this cold, freezing air is unbearable. It's only 120 degrees outstde. I had to put on my extra layer of skin. Ah-ha- there goes a bomb· BOOM- there goes an arm, now a head. Well, open your gates to Hell- you have a long line waiting for you. Hate, Brother Satan Carol Snedden I swear to the Almighty, the people on Earth have everything going for them but one thing: Common Sense. They are as smart as they want to be, have all of God's gifts in reach, but the worst thing of all is they Hate each other. Not only country against country, but race against race. I think I have come do'Wn to Heaven and stumbled in Hell! Earth is a beautiful place but the people make it look ugly. They spend money to cure such as TB and Cancer, then spe11d twice as much killin.g each other off. If they could only learn to live together and love each other. the place called Earth could be a 25,000 mile circle of paradise. From A Journal Saturday: I was playing baseball dow-n in fields. I was facing south toward Albany. Then I saw a glow in the sky. It seemed to be moving toward rue. As it got closer, all the kids ran. I ran too, but I looked back. It looked like it was going to crash right into us. It was a red ball of fire with white lights in the center. It moved at a terrific speed. Then- suddenly tt it burst into pieces and fell at a terrific speed. Then- suddenly it burst into pieces and fell into the Hudson River. I took to the wind and stayed in the house all day . Geprge Moses Signed, 13694 Paul Gene Collins He Was Angry He clenched a fist/ took deep breaths/ grit his teeth. His mouth was dry and sour/ He stamped his feet/ took big steps. His voice was loud and stern. His eyes were on fire/ his face was red with flame/ He threw his books down/ broke glass/ kicked the door closed. Millie Cruz even if>l> 1 • \ looking yo 1 u. ~ ,, A ray of sun A part of day A part of night ' A blade of· grass,· a ray of sun Life or death ·! ,_ A blade of grass, a ray of sun. The short pieces of writtrzg on this page are products of the creative writing courses taught by Mrs. Mimi Brodsky a12d Jon Fox in the Upward Bound Project. Each weekly issue ofConcordiensis 'in the summer will contain .some of the work from those classes. The photographs are courtesy of Union Book '69. · y, deGiere Laurie Gaetano Editor {,, . ·.h

PAGE 4 JU'L Y 24-, 1969 Local Politics Course At SUNY A This Fall State University of New York at Albany's College of General Studies will offer a non-credit course in town and country politics from September 9 to October 28. The course, to be held on Tuesday evenings, will consist of lectures, discussions, reading assignments, and visiting lecturers. limited to 30 people. Professor James A. Riedel of the Graduate School of Public Affairs at SUNY A will teach the eight-session seminar. Prior to coming to SUNY:A, Professor Riedel was chairman of the department of political science at Union College. Upward Bound Chemists Visit Ellis and G.E R&D Practicing politicians will be included in the list of guest speakers. The course is designed to give a better understanding of the American political scene and an insight into the political processes with emphasis on local government. It will be Individuals who would like to register for Professor Riedel's political science course should either write tb SUNY A, College of General Studies, 1400 Washington Avenue, Albany 12203, or call 457-493-7 for information. Tuition for the course will be $20. This week Mrs. Jean Casazza's Upward Bound chemistry students took two trips, the first to Ellis Hospital and the second to the General Electric Research and Development Center in Schenectady. Mrs. Casazza felt that through these experiences the students would see how the knowledge of chemistry could be put to use in their future careers. Assisted by Dr. S. N. Parkhurst of the Ellis pathology department, the students toured all the Trustees Okay Facu·lty ROTC A'tion The Board of Trustees, following a recommendation from the College faculty, has voted to eliminate degree credit for Air Force ROTC courses, while continuing formal recognition of the AFROTC program here. by WARDELL ROBINSON Steinmeier, the AFROTC program at Union in the late '50's included such courses as weather, navigation, and corps training. However, in the 60's these courses gave way to others with a broader outlook. This new curriculum included world politics, geography, psychology, and management. In I 9 64, under the Revitalization Act, a new two-year program for commissioning officers was instituted. Under this program, a student who entered the program at the beginning of his junior year could become a commissioned officer by his graduation. As a result of the trustee action, the College will explore a plan for transferring the purely military aspects of ROTC to summer camps. Air Force ROTC is the only officer-training program at Union. By BERNICESTARKER departments of the hospital, including the pathology section, the hematology section, the quality control space center, microbiology, the blood bank, and the basa metabolism section. Yesterday the students toured the General Electric Research and Development Center in Schenectady. They were then given a tour of the center, a former mansion purchased and renovated by General Electric, and .shown exhibits of all the fields in which G.E. is involved. Comparing the tours, one of ; the students, Jack Daunt, felt the second was more worthwhile. \l didn't like the hip to Ellis because I feel it had too much to do with medicine, but I did like the trip· to G.E. I feel that the trip to G.E. was more concerned with chemistry. I noticed how G.J;. did more work than I expected and I saw how important this are a really is.\ Lake George Opera on NET From the Southern Vermont Arts Festival, NET's \Sounds of Summer\ series is presenting \Famous Arias from Famous Operas\ Sunday, July 27 at 8:00p.m. on Channel 13 for the Capital District. Four stars of the Lake George Opera Festival, Karan Armstrong, soprano, mezzo-soprano· Marcia Baldwin, tenor Anastasios Vrenios and baritone Robert Goodlow perform selections from \The Barber of Seville\ \Den Giovanni\ \Traviata\ and other popular works. Their performance was recorded for television at a concert held July 13 at the Southern Vermont Arts Center in Manchester, Vt. where the Lake George Opera has been pres en ted in concert and .' . production every season for · the past five years. The NET ' network broadcast ll'ill be the first time the Festival has been televised nationally. VOL 99, Over $18 to the Coll1 last week 1 State Educ Union is institutions in New Yc declared ·eli '$24 millio September, announcem week by A of Educ: Nyquist. And Uni . and unive1 that will million fot E ducatio Programs 1969-70 ac Both authorized first tim Sou: The trustees moved to ask the Air Force to consider granting credit for certain academic courses which may satisfy some of the academic objectives of the ROTC program. Such courses might be in history, political science, and management, the recommendation said. Such a policy of Olton Offers Freshmen CED 11 Clwice Get~ Pro~ substitution was formerly in effect at Union and has recently been authorized as a pilot program at some 20 colleges and Universities. According to Captain Self Awareness Continued from page 1 inquiry and articulation and whose central unifying theme is 'freedom and order', received a mean rating of 68 from 118 out of 158 students in seven sections. There were no responses from the 17 students in Prof. Murphy's Comp Ed 10 section. Dick Daniel, who runs the computerized course I From Left: Tim Parker, Sue O'Rourke, Pete Lindsay, and Millie Cruz experiment with body painting in the Upward Bound art workshop under the guidance of Carolyn Matthias. evaluation here, said that the final results have not been completed, but vouched for the accuracy of the figures cited here. He added that the full course evaluation for spring term will be compiled m1d published as soon as authorization and funds are forthcoming from the student government. Full Course Descriptions The section Descriptions in Prof. Olton's letter to the freshmen are considerably more complete than those found in the academic register. For example section 6, titled \Is there a logic of scientifi~ discovery?\ was describec thus: \The course will examine the process of scientific discovery, utilizing selected case histories from crucial periods ir. the development of the sciences. TI1e class will attempt to isolate and investigate the logic of conceptual revolutions in the sciences, as distinct from sociological, ideological, and metaphysical aspects of discovery. REading and discussion of selected books and articles will form the basis of three short essays and one term-paper. No examinations will be given. Mr. Ludwig.\ Arbitrary Enrohnent Prof. 01 ton wrote to the freshmen that, \since the general approach, aims and . requirements of all sections (of I Camp Ed 10) is approximately ''\ the same, you will be assigned to a section arbitrarily, at a time when the course will fit r ._ conveniently with tl!e rest o( ' 1 1 your program.\ When the Comp Ed curriculum was initiated in the · fall of 1966 there was no such choice made available to the freshmen who had to tltke Camp Ed I 0 and 11. There was ., \'· no well defined leadership for the Comp Ed program until January of this year wh~ Prof. ·• -.. Olton was named director of the Comp Ed program. Mini Review: Bernice Has Soul Sound • ByNi During William I the fact discussed Duboise soul food Five y the Man in Albar worked: of nurse Hamilt01 Last~ swdents area. Th acquaint then CUI poor, be one of areas of Jim's fit He off By EARLENE ROSE ' t· $1000 B e r n i c e Reagan is a wonderful lady of soul. She group < from gave a concert at Martin Luther , \ econom current] House K.ing School in Schenectady on J) \' Tuesday, July 22. Campm ,,, e · This A hit at Newport Folk Festival this year, Bernice sings songs of black America and Africa. She gave a benefit concert for the Hamil ton Hill \Drop-In\ Arts and Crafts t Center. The Upward Bound Project contributed twenty-five ddllars to the Center. She was tremendous. She -u, used no instruments of any kind, She not ()nly kept rhythm with her feet and hands, but she used her whole body to keep the 6eat. door to dream, <:~ soul-sti: was his mane~ well-es1 ~ in the money patron: • some he wa~ set his

969 the ' of · felt ' VOL 99, NO.5 more the feel it with trip· to N G.f;. pee ted this ET was at a at the Center the been t and· . for · NET be the been ~~ and j ons(of ·I ssigned at a will fit 1 rest o('' 1 1 p Ed Over $180,000 in State aid to the College was announced last week by the New York State Education Department. Union is one of 52 private institutions of higher education in New York that have been declared ·eligible to receive over · $24 million in State aid in September, according to an announcement released last week by Acting Commissioner of Education Ewald B. Nyquist. And Union joins 45 colleges . and universities in the State that will receive nearly $5 million for use 0f their Higher Education Opportunity Programs (HEOP) during the 1969· 70 academic year. Both allocations were authorized and funded for the first time by the 1969 Soul Food Gets Junior Project Aid By NADINE COLLINS During an interview with William Bennett, a member of , . the faculty at Union, we discussed his caterer, Jim Duboise and how he bought soul food to the College. Founded at Union College 18?7 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, JULY 31, 1969 legislature. The unrestricted State .aid is payable under the so-called \Bundy\ law, which makes New Y ark the first state in the nation to provide general financial assistance to its private, non-sectarian, four-year colleges. I n m a k i ng the announcement, Commissioner Nyquist said: '\The program reflects the State's concern for maintaining and improving the quality of the private sector of the educational system as well as the public institutions. New York State has enj0yed a long tradition .of outstanding private institutions of higher education. I believe this new program will help maintain an appropriate balance between public and private institutions and sustain private initiatives in providing educational opportunity for the students of New York State. Governor Rockefeller and the legislature deserve high praise for the enactment of this precedent-setting legislation.\ The HEOP grant totals $12,500 and it will be allocated to the budget of Project HOPE. a consortium of Skidmore, Union, and R.P.I. The recommended allocation to the Skidmore .Union-RPI consortium was not as generous as those to other colleges in the State. The allocation of $12,500 pr,wides approximately $208 for each of the 60 HOPE students. Twenty will attend each institution in the consortium. The University of Rochester and Utica College were given recommendations for, respectively, eight and seven times more funds than the HEOP colleges. A sixty student program at Rochester was funded for $97,000, or about $1610 per student. Utica received $70,462 for a SO student program, about $1406 each. Union received the lowest allocation for a first year program and one of the lowest in the State. Among the LAST ISSUE This is the last issue of the summertime Concordiensis. By this time next week most of the institutes on campus will have been completed and the participants in them, who both read and produce this paper, will be scattered :across the country. Any reader who would like to comment on anything I that has appeared in these I pages may submit his views now for publication in the fall. Man & His World PRICE TWENTY:GENTS UB Boycou Means No SPAC Show By ANNA TURNER Yesterday, a greup of Upward Bound students protested against a sentence passed by the Judicial Board regarding an incident which happened on campus over the weekend. Ten UB students spent Friday night on campus when they were not supposed to. After being put before the Judicial Board, they were told that they could not go along on a trip to SP AC to hear Buddy Rich and 0. C. Smith Monday evening with the rest of the group. There was a feeling among some students that the punishment was unjust. A protest was led by Skip Jameison and Anna Turner. They called all the students and told them that \now is the time to stick together. Either all go to Saratoga or none go at all.\ As it turned out, about fifteen UB students went. There are 58 people in the program. The UB students felt that they showed the faculty and staff that they were ready to stand up for their rights , regardless of how much they wanted to see Buddy Rich and O.C.Smith. in the · such to the take was for until of ogram. Five years ago Jim attended the Man Power Training Center in Albany. Following this he ., '·..,, worked as a cook for a group of nursery school students on Hamilton Hill. ·' , Last year a group of Union Expo Site Still Full Of Excikment ~. ,as d c. is a She Luther 1 on ll Folk ce sings and '\ benefit Hill Crafts Bound nty-five She -u, of any kept et and ,) whole smdents took a tour in this area. They wanted to become acquainted with some of the then current problems of the poor, both black and white, in one of the more depressed areas of Schenectady. This was Jim's first real taste of success. He offered a contract for t· $1000 to serve lunch to a group of black teachers here from Appalachia to study ., economics. These teachers are \' currently staying in Davidson House on the Union College Campus. o · This incident opened the door to Jim's most sought after dream, to be a good <:~ soul-stirring Chef.--And this was his chance. He now has the money to become a t~. well-established business man in the art of cooking. With the money he has earned from his patrons from Appalachia, plus • ·some fifteen hundred dollars he was able to borrow, he can set his goal with ease. Over-blown expectations and border difficulties disappointed some of the Upward Bound students on their recent tfip to \Man and His World.\ All of the U.B. students and some of the counselors and members of the faculty took a five hour bus ride which brought them to the entrance of the exhibit. Genny Barnard felt that she would enjoy seeing the people and the culture of the many nations represented at the Expo. On the trip home she commented that it did not meet her expectations. She felt that all the publicity that the fair had received built it up too much and tltat to her it was a big let down. Peter Lyndsay stated that he wanted to .see what it is like to live in Canada before he gets drafted. On the way home he said that he enjoyed the trip by BERNICE STARKER but there wasn't enough time he did not wish to attend the to enjoy it all. trip at first, but after he Tony Colamarino stated that tllought about it he decided to go. On the return trip he said that the trip was better than he Continued on page ~o ... ~ ---.. --- This is a Mono-rail at Man & His World in Montreal, Canada, where U .B. student went for a visit. During the trip several students and staff of U.B. were stnck on the mono-rail for two and a half hours. Photo by: LisaK. Schoonmaker

Leads To Masters' \Those who make peaceful revolution im.poss.ihle make violent revolution inevitable.\ NSF Teaches New Metlwth Iseemy lif1 Helpless as Dependent Rebellious Helpless at Seconds/U Who make! Published Tuesday and Friday during the Union College academic year by the Student Body of Union College, Schenectady, New York. Published Thursdays during the Upward Bound Project .by Upward Bound students in residence at Union College. National Advertising Representative: National Ed uca tiona} Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative. 360 Lex·ington Avenue, N.Y.C. Editorial Office. Old Gym, Union College, Publication Office, Vlhitehurst Printing & Binding Co.. Inc., 416-418 Fifth Ave., Troy. 235-4450. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20c a copy; $6 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. NEILS. KRAI\-mR E'ditor-in-Ch ief WARDELL E. ROBINSON MARCELLA L. STEW.t\RT Assistant Editor LISA SCHOONMAKER Assistant Editor SUSAN FORER Photography Editor Consulting .t:ditvr STAFF: Ginny R. Knauer, Jim Armstead II. Keith Stinney, Nadine Collins, Bernice Starker, Anna Turner. AI Griffin, Earlene Rose. Today, billions of dollars are being spent on space explorations, while here on earth, it seems as though not nearly enough money is being spent on the people who can make possi.ble· these explorations. By ANNA TURNER The N atio)~I Scie~c~ Foundation, which is a government agency, receives just enough money for science and math teachers to study for three summers earning their masters' degrees. Here at Union College, 120 UC Travelers Say Vienna Suits Them Q,ld Expo Site Still :fu:ll Of Excitement By GINNY KNAUER Last summer, while Professor Frederick Klemm was staying with his wife in Vienna, the idea struck him that a trip there for students would be a tremendous educational experience. Because of the many excellent art galleries and museums, he thought it would be an ideal place. Prof. Klemm was concerned with the cost of housing and looked into it. There was also a problem of clearing the project with the College. But 28 students, an assortment of upperclassmen, left for Vienna last March 25. The students took courses in history of the arts and participated in independent projects concerning various subjects. The group visited Art Glover, resident director of the Salsburg Seminar and a Union alumni, Class of '5 I. The cost for the trip was the same as that for ten weeks on· campu$; ·and all scholarships were_ :~applicable. Tuition, travel, ~ooks, room, boarq; and nrqst . cut;tur.al: events . were inciud~d\iii>rtre t~e': · . · Nine ~au't of the 28 m the group stayed in Vienna for the entire summer. Many of the students traveled on their own to ~Praque, Venice, Rome, and .Zurjch. Because this trip was so successful, Union is planning more of them. A group of students are visiting France in the fall and another group will stay in Bogota, Columbia during the winter. Continued from page one had expected. He enjoyed the amusement area although he did not find it until late in the evening. Mr. Murphy said he wanted to see the fair just because it's there. He enjoyed what he did see of the fair although he could not see much because .he was one of the persons trapped on the Mini-rail for two hours. The incident upset him greatly because after being trapped for so l<mg the Canadian officials were extremely rude and inconsiderate and did not even apologize for the inconvenience. For Victor Brown, head Anthology Seeks Best '~Laureate\ Magazine, \a highly selective collection of the cream of college verse-the lyric voice of student America\ has announced that it is now assembling material for publication in December, 1969. . . They hope that at least one representative piece of verse from every school will appear in its pages. Men and women enrolled in a~w American college or university may submit poetry for consideration by the committee. There are no restrictions as to length, style or subject matter, nor is prior publication a requisite . Entries should be mailed before November 1, 1969 to \Laureate\ Post Office Box 307, Cedarhurst, New York, 11516. A stamped, self-addressed return envelope should be enclosed. counselor, the trip was extremely surprising. Vic was removed from the bus and taken into the customs office because although he is a U.S. citizen he forgot his passport. The U.S. customs officer tried to help Vic by stating that if Vic could report to Albany within 72 hours to prove he was a citizen that he could accompany the rest of the U.B. 'ers on the trip. The Canadian official, for no apparent reason except that of U.S.-Canadian rivalry refused to allow Vic to continue on the trip. War dell E. Robinson volunteered to remain with Vic because she felt that if she were in his place she wotLldn't want to be left there alone with nothing to do for that long. She said that the two of them were good friends and that the two of them could have fun together: To help Vic and Wardell one of the customs officiitls offered them a ride to the city of Champlain where they took a bus to Platsburgl1 to do some sightseeing. From Platsburgh they took a ferry to Grand Isle, Vermont where they did some more sightseeing. Later they went to downtown Platsburgh where they ate dinner and attended a nightclub. Then they took a cab to Champlain and then back to tile border. They arrived at tl1e border around 8 o'clock and sat and talked with the American officials until the bus returned. Vic felt that he had a fun time and that he enjoyed it more than going to Montreal because he likes quiet things and he was with a very enjoyable person. Wardell said that she also had a nice quiet time with a very good friend whose company she enjoyed. She also said that she would like to see \Man and his World\ at some time. Garden Joys Reach Peak lnAugustSun Jackson's Gardens, Union's formal gardens which have been in continuous cultivation for 135 years, is at the peak of its summer splendor. Its many annuals and tender perennials, many of which are grown in the college greenhouses by Richard Luniewski, make up the displays. Luniewski has arranged the beds in striking designs, using foliage plants to accent the showy flowers. Persons interested in out-of-the-ordinary plants will have an opportunity to identify the abutilon, achillea, altetnanthera, santalina, and similar specimens. Camera enthusiasts will have subjects ranging from single blossoms to complex beds of color. In recent years, an increased number of tuberous and fibrous rooted begonias have been planted in Jackson's Gardens. This year there are whole beds of double begonia semperflorehs in white, pink, rose and bright red. Tuberous begonias, this year, are entirely of Belgian origin, grown from seed in Union's greenhouses. Although the rose season is in June, considerable bloom still may be found in Jackson's Gardens in the new rose garden on the hill behind the greenhouses. men and women are engaged in 1 this sort of thing. In order to : come here, they are required to · have taught in secoHdary schools for at least three years. They must also have a Baccalaureate degre.e and grades of A,B, or C. A \B\ average must be maintained. While oh campus, they take two courses. They also must have spent ten hours per week studying a course, along with .five hours spent weekly for · graduate credit and attendance · 1 at weekly seminars. The teachers come from all parts of the country, the largest majority coming from New York State. They receive stipends. The project at Union is under the directorship of Professor E. F. Gillette, who received his A.B. from Hamilton, his M.A. and Ph.D from Syracuse and is Professor of Mathematics .. Although 18,000 teachers An hour 1(] Many lost Lost yet n Time neve People liv{ Seconds/1:1 Happy is laz singing, swe, Happy is playing, merry musj 'flowers. Happy is unwrapping baby; are taking advantage of tllis . ' opportunity, Prof. Gillette ! • Lone feels that more money could be spent so that more teachers could have a chance at this. Instructors Named At U This September Patrick F. Allen and David C. Stineback will join the Union College faculty as English instructors. Allen is a 1964 graduate of 1 \ the University of California, l with an M.A. from Indiana I University. He comes to Union from Indiana University, where he was a correspondence instructor in colonial American literature. He is a member of I the Modern Language ., Association and the American Studies Association. Stineback is a 1965 graduate of Stanford University, with an M.A. in 1967 from~Yale . .He comes to Union from Yale, where he is a teaching assistant. Mini Review: Dance Group i Thrills UBs Jly KEITH STINNEY About 35 Upward Bounders ' 1 bussed over to the SPAC Summer Theatre, August 1, to attend a dance lecture-·,, demonstration by the Alvin Ailey Dance Company. Alone it st< A fiery ball A single trE By himself A willow ir A ship upo How Janel• Alone it w A hunk of A man wit A single fl; A pencil ir A seagull c Howlonel 1 Two There' plant lifl living sh! ·hardsh t0gether. campus. of manki of his ex a few awesome like the moon. wished t ancient C happen whole is this car , feel i~. · · but h1s: till the~ Alvin Ailey, one of the . ,. country's top choreographers, ,. \ told of his struggles in the drance field, especially as a Black American and of the l) fabulous success his dance company has had around the world. The flic The br~ The mi His talented company of .. ,., talented dancers perfonned a spectacular dance·- \Revelations\ to a medley of American Negro Spirituals. ,, ~ The flic The sei The ev1 Them< Kenny Williams sajd, \It was great except he talks Uke an old lady. The dancers were ,, fabulous and the program went on fine.\ \

eco~tds/HoursjDaysfYears WHY? I see my life passing time Helpless as an infant Dependent and curious as a child Why <;lid God put man on this planet? Why did He make war? Why does he let ' ;aged in f rder to: RebeHious yet constructive as an adolescent Helpless at 18? man do everything wrong and Hien let somebody else Seconds/Hours/Days/Years Lired to · on.dary Who makes a year longer than a day? punish him? Why does He let us make bombs to ki'il ~ years. , tave a; e ana: An hour longer than a second? Many lost before used. A \B\ . ned. Lost yet not wasted. Time never stop People live life Seconds/Hours/Days/Years ey take o must )f week 1g with dy for ' ndance Happy rom all y, the g from receive :Union :hip of· e, who from d Ph.D ·ofessor eachers of this. Gillette r could eachers rus. rs t u rick F. ineback College ructors. uate of ifornia, Indiana l Union , where 1ndence nerican 11ber of nguage nerican raduate with an ale . .He l Yale, :sistant. ()Up fs EY ounders ' 1 SPAC tst 1, to ecture- · ,, ~ Alvin of the 11 Happy is laughing people, bells singing, sweet perfune. Happy is jumping around playing, merry music, weddings, fresh 'flowers. Happy is cheerful looking, unwrapping presents, new born baby, Gail Randall 'Lonely How Alone it stood A fiery ball stands alone A single tree beside a stone By himself a child is playing A willow in the breeze is swaying A ship upon a stormy sea How lonely it all seems to me. Alone it was A hunk of wood A man without a country stood A single flame in a fireplace A .pencil in a large briefcase A seagull over a rising sea How lonely it all seems to me. Nadine Collins Two Minutes There's life all around me- plant life, animal life, man living sharing experiences and ·hardships and working · together. All this on a college campus. Here the achievements of mankind since the beginning ' of his existence are recorded in a few hundred acres. It's awesome to thinkabout. Just like the space . shot to the moon. Something man has wished to do since the days of ancient Greeks and it's going to happen in my lifetime. Life in whole is complete, awesome on this campus. You can really , feel it. Man will live and die but his achievements will go on till the end of time. '• fl ;raphers, <~ \ Jack Daunt in the ly as a of the dance u:nd the l) ~· • Light . Dark lany of .; \ >rmed a The flick of a lightswitch 1 n c e . • The breaking of dawn ~dley of The mid-day sun a1 ,, t1 The flick of a lightswitch I S. aid, \It The setting sun :tlks like The evening stars :ers were '· • The moonless night. am went Leroy Lane ,, ,. ' Ed Boiani Similes and missles to destroy? Do you think He is gettmg tired of this planet and wants to destroy it? Lester Reid Love Love is two lovers in a park kissing with the sound of a smack, the taste of a spring morning with nice feelings and a fresh spring morning smelL Love is brotherhood between races with no weapons, war, riots or discrimination as sharp as a newblade of grass, a broken piece of glass, a needle's point.. .. Love is tears of joy and a groovy kind of silence with a taste of honey and the girl wears perfume or cologne and, she has a feeling of security and companionship with her boyfriend. as sad as hippies to adults, a lost day .... as angry as teachers when the homework isn't done, as kids when teachers load them down with homework on a weekend .... Bill V anH llsen Laurie Angelone Lonely Feeling- low- down and out, alienated wondering and wishing. Hopjng and crying inside-wanting but not attaining goals .. .fearing lot but flowing little, looking fm meaning alone. Cautious thoughts not knowing but wanting to know the why's of everything. Dreams both nightmares and beautiful clouding the mind. A canyon between one and all ... Two Minutes The air clean, sunny, fresh ... The day warm breeze .•. The khld of day to delight one's hnagination ... The endless scene which surrounds one's livelihood ... The scene of large consideratiort ... 'There he is walking through the grass wearing dark glasses, conseiVative type of person ... knowing what the next day may bring ... Two minutes: that's all it takes for a perscm to fix a can of sOup.,. Allen Stenhouse YES YES is birds singing/ love / a wedding I money The end of \A Fairy Tale\ Chip Kenny Martin Luther King/ Black Power/ a colorful rainbow YES is a baby{ a wann, friendly smile, a vacatic11; Note: Because the \excerpt from a fairy tale\ caused considerable requests to print the ending, we oblige. Now Ed has a real obstacle to overcome - how the hell to get out of all this Black h'uht? In the enchanted Lake, Bobbie met up with Jack's hut. It said, around the corner and across from the seaweed he could find Jack and he could show Ed how to get out of this place. Bobbie found Jack alright but Jack was one of those mean water warlocks who try to light Ed's ass up. Bobbie had to cut out right quick. But Ed is kind of slow on the take off end Jack had a hat full of tricks in his left pocket. Jack had.BohbieEd trapped and ready to do him in when the hero showed up which was or who was l:Olia.m. in the morning. Surprise! Time for school. So said Ed's mothe1Bobbie's father. Skip Jamieson lying on green grass YES is having people understanding you ... Frances Crisalli Mirror When I look in the mirror, I see a very smart and intelligent well pu1 together Black man ···when I look in the mirror I see the symbol of a Black man who is ready to revolt against tile white man •· I see a brave young man who will die for his Black brothers and sisters. When I look in the mirror I. see a young Black man Vllho could love and produce warm feelings, but he could also be very angry at times and become very disturbed. He has a bit of every black man and woman in him and he's very porud of it·· But still, most of all, I am the symbol of Black Power and all for Blacks·· so I figure I'm a YES person·· The shm 1 pieces of writmg an this page are products vf the creative writing courses taught by Lewis Jami<!son Mrs. Mimi Brvdskyancl Jan Fax in the Upward Bound Project. 'flze photographs are courtesy of Union s·ook '69.

. 1 ' 'i I, . ' I 1 ; l :I :I I I I ; I PAGE 4 SUNY A Plans Writing Se,ries ln Autumn Worksbops Add Vital.ity To Upward Bound· .. · Tow area authors will teach non-credit writing workshops sponsored by the College of General Studies, State University of New York at Albany, this fall. Doris Grumbach will conduct a fiction writers' workshop, Tuesday evenings 7-9 p.m., October 8- Novermber 26. Mrs. Grumbach's workshop will emphasize the techniques of creative writing. Mrs. Grumbach is the author of THE COMPANY SHE KEPT; THE SPOIL OF THE FLOWERS; THE SHORT THROAT, THE TENDER MOUTH and is a contributor to \Commonweal\ and the New York Times. The workshop led by Mr. Kennedy will stress the line between fact and fiction writing, the technique of personalized writing, critical writing, new journalism and the art of the interview. Mr. Kennedy is a film critic for the Albany Times Union_ His first novel, THE INK TRUCK, will be published by Dial Press this fall. The writing workshops will be limited to 25 memllers each. Those who are interested in enrolling are requested to apply via letter by September 10. Applications should be sent to College of General Studies, 1400 Washington Avenue, Albany. By ANN A TURNER and KEITH STINNEY One of the things at Upward Bound that helps the student, is the workshops. Attended in the evening by the students, the workshops offered are drama, music, art, swimming, and newspaper. There are also two afternoon workshops, modern dance and computer programming. The workshops aid in helping the UB student to learn how to be himself and to express himself freely without fear of what someone thinks. This is the reason Debra Williams attends the drama Leroy Lane, in workshop, is doing his thing with the drums. Leroy. an Upward Bound stlldent, plays off and on with different bands. Photo by: LisaK. Schoonmaker workshop. The drama workshop is run by Ion Fox. As put by Jon, his reason for starting drama, besides being hired fm it, was ·to help the students become aware of themselves and what they can do. Because of a lack of student interest and desire to do things along with Jon's own ~lack of motivation and lack of ideas, drama isn't going as well as he wishes. During the illness last week of Carolyn Matthias, the art workshop was run by Richard Seh'l and Peter Lindsay, Upward Bound students. Peter enjoys the workshop but believes that there is too much individual work and not enough group activity. Pete says he joined the art workshop in order to be artistically constructive. Millie Cruz, joined the workshop in order to let out her feelings in colors rather than words. Like Pete, Millie would like to see more group activity. The only thing done as a group was body painting. According to Millie, it was fun. Under the command of Neil Kramer, the newspaper workshop has done some pretty good things. With a newspaper coming out every Thursday, the students work dilligen tly to prepare themselves for each publication. Composed of nine Upward Bounders and three counselors, the paper is running smoothly. At one time last week, the work slackened, but it has First State Aid Exceeds $180~000 Continued from page one Since both the institutions seeking State aid and th.e State Department of Education were rushed in making proposals and applications this year, due to the late date at which the legjslature made the necessary appropriations, there will be a full scale evaluation next year of the performance of all HEO:P applicatees. Close study by the State Education Department and their active involvement as consultants for both public and private institutions throughout the 69-70 academic year will mean that allocations for the 70-71 year may vary markedly from those for 69-70, Mr. Altman said. Collegiate applications for HEOP funds totalled about $15 million. Substantial cuts were necessary in most allocations to keep within the $5 million legislative allocation, according to Richard W. Couper, Deputy Commissioner for· Higher Education. Combined efforts by several colleges, and in some cases combinations of public and private institutions, allowed far more effective usage of the available funds, he said. Twenty-seven private institutions in the State will receive $918,345 to assist in programs for 1 ,00 I returning balance falling due in the The new plan grew out of a students and an expected 1261 1970-71 fiscal year. proposal put forth by the members of the Class ·of 1973. Applications for assistance Select Committee on the The largest single allocation, under the program have been Future of Private and based on a concentrated need, received from an additional 33 Independent Higher Education went to the City University of institutions. Final decisions in New York State jointly New York. A total of $2,874, concerning their eligibility are appointed by the Governor and 472 will go to the several units still pending. the Regents. Headed by of CUNY, with the majority of In Qrder to be eligible for McGeorge Bundy, president of that, $2.4 million, going to the aid, a colle~e must be chartered the Ford Foundation, the CUNY SEEK Program, which by the Regents or the conunittee included James B. already includes 3,000 students Legislature, maintain at least Conant, president emeritus of and which will accept an one earned degree program at Harvard University; John A. additional 1425 new students the baccalaureate level or Hannah, president of Michigan this year. higher, meet minimum State University; Rev. Other public institutions, standards of educational The adore M. Hesburgh, including both units of the quality applicable to president of the University of State University and com p arab 1 e pub 1 i c Notre Dame; and Abram L. community colleges, will institutions, and be Sacher, Chancellor of Brandeis receive about $967,000 to constitutionally eligible. University. benefit 589 returning students and an anticipated new enrolment of 1496 students. The amount of general State aid under the \Bundy\ law payable to each eligible institution during the coming academic year was computed on the basis of $400 for each bachelor's and master's degree and $2400 for each doctoral degree conferred by the institution during the 12 months which ended June 30, 1969. Total payments for the 1969· 70 school year will be more than $24 million. Ofthis amount, $17 million will be payable during the State's cunent fiscal year, with the You don't kn9w what_y_ou are missing till you VISit SHALIMAR of INDIA at the ALTAMONT FAIR August ll th thru August 16th The finest selection of silks, jewelry, hrassware and all kinds of novelties. Come to SHALIMAR in the Arts and Crafts building. Open 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. This coupon worth 10 per cent discount on any purchase by oneperson. picked up since. ';'.f( A:ll the .students like the workshop but some complain · ·•. abou. t not havin. g more. exciting ·~ .. ;.]. stories to do and too much i work This doesn't upset Neil ! . in the least. The way he figures ·• it, '~If they can do the work, ,. · thea th~y'll get it.\ And · according to him, they can. To Virginia Knauer, the~e is 'j/ not really too much work, J.USt : 1 not enough help. But outside · of this, Ginny likes what she is . doing and \would not trade it ?#,. for anything in the world,\ she •J said. · Mirn Broksky conducts a modern dance workshop which :;1 has two to eight members, depending on the temperature. The dancers exercise for 40 ·~ · minntes every Tuesday and ' , ~· ThUl'sday and after exercising, I' they have workshop sessions. . The:se sessions involve different ~.·~. r· steps and forms of modern f I dance, which group members j use to experiments ideas and 1t, . themes. >lir-e! A wide variety of music is used, from the Motown Sound ~\!;. to Japanese folk songs. . ', 1 1 1. Mrs. Brodky beginning of (' working together and exploring ways .of moving. ••nespite · activity conflicts and a few 100 ,,~, degree days, I think we grew a bit stronger together.\ Earlene Rose said she feels l very relaxed and enjoyed the 1~ workshop very much. Mim II Brodslcy is the greatest! t Clayton Bredlau stated, 11t.~· Eight students attending in life savillg · 5 or 6 beginners. All swimmers have really advanced nt·~. ~. themselves from a long way, ~\; the beginners especially. There I were some who could not swim l at all. The instructors were ·.~t~i· amazed at the magnificent · work which the U.B. ' participants have d<Jne. Clayt says. \It turn out ten times as ·.1 go()d as I thought it would.\ • IS-day money-back guarantee. • 2·yr. uncon~itional guarantee parts & Iabar no choree, at local warranty station or faciDIJ. • Tra<lt-ins--hiehut allow. Send_.yaur list. • Most ittms shipped promp:ly from aur in· venial)', fully insured. .. Z3nl yr. dependable ser~ic.-worfd wide. Blank Cartridge Sale No. 12+ 50+ -30 Min.- box cassette . 75 -60 Min.- box cassette .95 .85 - 90 Fdii>.- box cassette 1.55 1.45 C120- 120 Min. - Mailer box cassette 1.99 1.75 4515 8 Track - 80 ml11. Stereo Cartridge 1.79 1.69 assortment for quantity pric· Add 2,00 shipping: & handling to 12 units. lOc per unit over USA, APO, FPO. Min. ord. $10. ll VOL.· Hol1 To\ Ofl The l Dares s~ requeste< assistant to contr history 1 State S· during tt ), Holn complet1 at Bast• two ye Nsumba a lectur During research shore c research the on group in tribe in earliest includi.I and po! Hob oral hi out 1 comrr respon: ing\ a By pi1 accour his to Arche( the gather with p Th comp< mar reorg Holml Vi~ Pr< chain de par appL \Frul The study sprih: Junic Educ llatarl # 1 sorvlce-satlslactlon accardin& to lllliOnwidt SUIWOJ. . · I> I it•• ,. ' ' B feat pro@ trips art \Pes put stay, arti Berr Opt worl Eun wen not Wnte for Our Specr.al Low Price You'll Be Glad You D1d! HI-FIDELITY ~ fht Hou\f of low low- ProCr\\\ lllllliiiiillllliiliiililiiiiiillllll ), ~ ,, . '¥· E Wie dep

