0 29, 1969 0 0 ' ty :md frnsh pllt~t. streab nn lite line t hl'\ I r~tVl'l.tl l 'fH lV \s ... :vidL'IlCL'li .in t:h~· ~K Sl':ISPH, l·hl'ot 31H:JthH fine should give the tussle. split up Saturday. travel to Clinton Hamilton College,6 sh will compete at Invitational. Play \ Rochester and St. i) the GaJ:net also tennis team, but the the Science Cente~. four older courts, and the .new ones to will not be completed With limited cour~ osh squad had to be 1970. gether ..• know· precious and moments e> engagement and on the tag,. satisfaction. f)) of superb color, Jeweler will He's in the yellow 00 to $10,000. ® reg. RINGS ---------- AND WEDDING ~ Plan Your Engage· folder, both for Bride's Book. S· 6·9 ~) N. Y. 1320.1 .. ~ Founded at Union College 1877 VOL 98, NO. 44 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., MA. Y 2, 1969 Tomorrow morning the recently manicured Library Plaza will be the scene of Prize Day activities as more than fifty awards and $10,000 will be distributed. For a complete list of Parents Weekend activities, please see the story on this page. Faculty Council Meets Votes Comp Ed Options By STUART NESLIN The Faculty Council, in a series of meetings since the beginning of April, ., has discussed changes in the Comprehensive Education program, accepted new courses in African history and agreed to make reports of faculty standing committees available to students. President Martin indicated he would ask chairmen of standing committees who wish to publicize their minutes to send a copy to the Council secretary, for deposit in the '~ library. The committee reports will be at the library's main desk, for anyone interested in them. New xourses in African history will \ be offered next year. The proposed Junior Class Discuss Comps And Academics A widely-publicized. meeting of the Junior Class, held yesterday, was ,,. attended by fewer than 50 people. \The purpose of the meeting was to establish a committee structure for the Junior Class,\ according to Ed Buzak, • class President. Vice President Pete Garrison, said that he hoped to see \an orderly study to explore the problems that confront all juniors.'.. The issues discussed included, comprehensive examinations, major course & requirements, the junior comprehensive education program, final exams, and student housing. Floyd Weintraub, discussing , comprehensive examinations, suggested that comps and senior fmals be integrated in to the third term. Weintraub asked for a better liason between students of the two centers in organizing meaningful alternatives to comps. He express~d desire for the \ Junior Class to lead in the re-evaluation of these matters. Buzak added that in many areas no revision will be needed. He stressed !'- that evaluation, not revision, will be the goal of these committees. courses include a study of sub-Sahara Africa in the pre-colonial period, the nineteenth century, and the twentieth century. New junior project courses were also approved, ~mong them Demography and Community Development, The State Legislature in Action, Population and Noise Pollution, and The Black American in Search of Identity; the Case of Schenectady. A number of new option courses in center I were approved, including Literature of the Bible, Moral Dilemmas of Governing, and The American Future in Black and White. These courses were approved by a unanimous vote. New options in center II were also approved, including Neural Systems, The Chemistry of Chaos, Perspectives on Computer Languages, and The Nature of Mathematics. In other action, it was agreed that only in courses given by the !l~tual department in which a student is majoring could a senior be exempted from final exams during the term when he is taking a major field exam. Courses added as Comp. Ed. options include Art 10, 11, 12, 13, and 20. Student Group Will Perform The Northeastern New York Student Orchestra, a symphony orchestra made up of area high school and college students, will present a concert at 8:30 p.m. tomorrow in Memorial Chapel. Part of Union's Arts Festival, the NENY Student Orchestra performance is also part of the college's Parent's Weekend festivities. The program consists of \Overture to 'Candide,\' Bernstein; \Premiere Rhapsody,\ Debussy; \Eight Russian Folk Songs,\ Liadov; and \Symphony No. 1 in D major,\ Schubert. Fred Kasper, a clarinetist from Burnt Hills-Ballston Lake High School, will solo in the Debussy selection. Theodor Uppman To Sing With Glee Club Two major events of Arts Festival '69, which will continue through next week, will be tomorrow's theatrical productions of the Sixth Street Theater, a group of political dramatists from New York City; and Tuesday's Glee Clpb Concert at 8:30 p.m. at Memorial Chapel featuring Theodor Uppman, noted Metropolitan Opera baritone. The Sixth Street Theatre will perform in front of Schaffer Library tomorrow afternoon and again at 9 p.m. in Old Chapel with a different production. Plays The afternoon production will be an anti-war play and at night the performance, \Student Life,\ will consist of a study of the dilemma of the student and his role on today's college campus. The Sixth Street Theater has its own store front· in New York City from which it does political productions during the winter. During the summer the group, whicl1 consists of more than seven people, travels around the country putting on productions of its plays. The group performed late in February at Union and has been brought back by Cliff Safane '69 for the Arts Festival. Fallowing the production tomorrow night, Safane will perform in Old Chapel with his group, \The Cliff Safane Unit.\ Wilson To Direct Glee Club The Glee Club's program for the concert next Tuesday, which will be under the direction of Hugh Allen Wilson, will be varied, with works ranging from Bach and Schubert to a group of songs of the sea. A highly successful concert artist, Uppman has sung in 49 of the SO United States, including at the CLASS ELECTIONS Early returns from last night's class elections indicate that Pete Garrison has defeated Ed Buzak, the incumbent, for the presidency of the class of 1970. Saratoga Performing Arts Center last summer. The lone exception is Alaska. When he is not busy with operatic performances, Uppman tours the country extensively doing concerts, singing with major orchestras, and appearing on television and radio. During the summer he often appears in summer festivals of light opera. A typical two-week period finds him singing an all-Gershwin program in Honolulu, two performances of ''The Merry Widow\ in Milwaukee, and Cole Porter Night at th.e Hollywood Bowl. This season at the Met, he has sung the role of Ping in Puccini's \Turandot\ and Sharpless in Puccini's \Butterfly.\ He also has done Masetto in Mozart's \Don Giovanni\. PRICE TWENTY CENTS Parertls Weekencj Features Prizes, Concerts, Fun More than 7 50 parcH ts of Union students me expected to be on campus today through Sunday for the College's annual parents' weekend. Activities began this afternoon with individual meetings with faculty members. At 8 p.m. today, in the audHorium of the Social Sciences building, will be the film \The DevU's Eye\. The Momttebanks will present two short plays at 8:30 p.m. today, tcilnonow and Sunday in the Nott Memorial Theatre, Eugene O'Neill's \Hughie\ and Jean Anouilh's \Cicile or the School for Fathers.\ Registration opens at 9 a.m. tomorrow at both Memorial Chapel and the Davidson House lounge. An exhibit, \The Collected Writings of Walt Whitman,\ will be on display in Schaffer IJbrary from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. The exhibit was edited by Dr. Harold W. Blodgett, professor emeritus of English literature. Jackson's Garden will be open from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Joseph Finkelstein, chairman of the Department of History, will discus~ \Comprehensive Education Three Years Later\ at 10:30 a.m. in the auditorium of the Social Science! building. The parents' committee will mee1 at 9 :30 a.m. in room 110 of the Social Sciences building. Hillel will conduct~ religious service at 9:30 a.m. in the student lounge of Hale House. Dr. Harold C. Martin will welcome parents at 11 :30 a.m. at the annua: Prize Day exercises in the Librar} plaza. More than 50 students wil receive prizes with a total cash value ol nearly $10,000. At 4 p.m. will be the President'l reception in Jackson's Gardens, wiH receptions at fraternity houses at ~ p.m. Evening activities will consist of : repeat performance by tht Mountebanks and a concert by tht Northeastern New York Studen Orchestra, under the direction of Prof Edgar Curtis. After 30 minutes the meeting '· adjourned into committees. A second meeting will be held next week. Robert Bosselink conducts the NENY Student Orchestra. Prof. Edgar Curtis is artistic director. John Throumoulos was successful in his bid to retain the presidency of the Class of 1972. Jim Kadamus was elected Class of 1971 president Monday night in the first round of elections. TI-IEODOR UPPMAN joins the Glee Club for a Tuesday evening concert

PAGE 2 MA¥2,.1969 s=================~~;;;::;;:;:;;.;:~-~~~~~~~--;;~~;;;;;~~~~;;.:,:,..._;__,,j \Those who make peaceful revolutio11 impossible make v i o 1 e 11 t r e vo l u t i o 11 i n e vi t a b l e. ' ' P11bl11~~d Tuuday and Frtday dur- lnl th• achool y•ar by thO' Stu<hnt Body of Un•onCcll~s•. Sc·h .. nPclady ~. Y, N aHon•l Advt'rt llln& R tpn• aentatlv•· Nat tonal Edut'8t.,on•J Adlllf'ttaalf'C SrrvJC'II!', Inc .. Colh:ce P11bluh~,. lh·pr•untat•• e. J60 •l.t: a&nlton Avtnut, N. V, C, Edlloo••L Off•ce. O·ld Cym, Un•on Coll~a•. Publication Ofhc•. Whltf• hunt Pr1ntH\8 & 81nd•n1 Co .. lr\lc .. 416·410· Fifth Avo .. Troy, 2J5·4450 .. ErllProd '\ th• s~h~n~clady p oat OfltCfl •• s .. cond Clua Mill Ma!Ur. Subat'npt•on 20f a eopy, $6 a yeor d~Jivered eftywt\lf're &n th., Un~ttd Stal• '· NEIL S. KRAMER Editor-in-Chief WILUAM OUZER CARLGOLDSAND Managing Editor Business Manager SENIOR BOARD Paul Andrews, Andfew Crisses, Henry Fein, Bruce Husten, Alan Mell, Peter Weingold. JUNIOR BOARD Jeff Birn, Uoyd Birns, Jerry Levine, Jody Saslow, Michael Swirsky, John Schosheim, Jon Brunswick. STAFF Tony Beninati, Bruce Garber. Bill Holleran. Phil Galdston. Alan Greenfield. George Kaplan. Hank Levine. Steve Levy, Stu !\loss. Gary Prevost, Randy Su ttcr. CALENDAR May 2, Friday 7:30 p.m., SS-016- William A. Jaffe Inaugural Lecture with George Heard Hamilton, Artist, Art Historian, and Director of the Sterling and Francine Clark Art Institute, Williamstown, Mass. Topic of discussion- \Impressionism Pictures or Paintings?\ -Free 8:30 p.m., Nott Memorial - Two Plays: Eugene O'Neil's Hughie, and Jean Anouilh's Cecile or the School for Fathers. General Admission - $1.50, Dates of Union students- $.75, Union students, staff and faculty- free 9 p.m., SS-016 - lngmar Bergman Film, \The Devil's Eye.\ May 3, Saturday 8:30p.m., Nott Memorial- Two Plays (see May 2) 8 p.m., Memorial Chapel -Northeastern New York Student Orchestra Performance (free) 9 p.m., Old Chapel- The 6th Street Theatre (free) May 4, Sunday 7 p.m. and 9 p.m., SS-016 - Czech Film: \The End of August at the Hotel Oxone.\ Admission- $1.00 8:30p.m., Nott Memorial- Two Plays (see May 2) May 5, Monday 7 p.m. and 9 p.m., SS-016- Czech Film (see May 4) May 6, Tuesday 7 p.m. and 9 p.m., SS-016- Czech Film (see May 4) 8 :30 p.m., Memorial Chapel - \Glee Club Gala\ featuring Theodor Uppman, Soloist of the Metropolitan Opera. Selected works. ' ' ,· Blither \Concordiensis\ is in need of a circulation manager. Anyone interested should contact Carl Goldsand, at 346-9959. Students wishing to run for Student Government offices should pick up a petition at the Student Activities office. Petitions must have 200 signatures and must be submitted by Monday, May 5 at 4:30 p.m. Elections will be Thursd<cy, May 8. The next President's Open Forum will be in the Fox lounge on Monday, May 12, at 7 p.m. If anyone has a copy of the Glcnway Wescot interview which the Idol published three years ago, Professor Gado would appreciate a copy that could be spared. The \Idol\ will pay for the copy. All students who have, in the past, submitted material to \The Idol\ may pick up rejected material in the Student Activities office. Material which has not yet been printed and which is not in the box is being kept on me for possible use in future issues. The Beta lecture series will continue next Tuesday at 6: 15 P.M. with Ray Pike again expounding on French literature. He will deliver the final part of his presentation on Thursday. LETTERS TO THE EDITOR ROTC&Our Obligations To the Editor: Before Mr. Kramer again attempts to interpret a person's motivations (editorial: April 29) I suggest he acquaint himself more fully with the issues on hand. If he would have attended the Student Senate meeting at which I first introduced my proposal, perhaps some of his misconceptions could have been corrected. Contrary . t() Mr. Kramer's beliefs, my primary concern is for this college: its obligations to its students, its role in society, and its self-definition. The issues I am raising trancend as isolated discussion of ROTC, and are intended to encourage the college community to re-evaluate its postion on such topics as military and industrial recruiting on campus as well as such :potential threats as co-operation with IDA, biological warfare research, etc. For example, just what are Union's educational obligations to its students, and what moral decisions are involved in fulfilling these obligations? The 75 students now in ROTC would contend, I think, that the college has an obligation to provide this Air Force program. Should the college also provide training for revolutionary militants if a group of students so desires? I don't th.ink the college would accept this - or should - because it violates its basic tenets of rationality, humaneness, etc. In other words, if faced with the decision to sanction and facilitate the operations of an institution it found objectionable on the basis of the principles of an academic body, the college would not hesitate to make the moral decision involved in a deniaL Does the fact that ROTC is an arm of the U.S. Air Force place it in a different category? Does the fact that its killing and destruction is legalized give it a priveleged position? S.D.S. is condemned by college administrators for violating rational principles, yet the U.S. military, whose violence is far greater, is allowed to escape uncensured, protected by the veil of moral neutrality_ ROTC violates the basic prindples of an academic institution. As Henry Steele Commander states: \The college is cosmopolitan and international, recognizing no bounds in its quest for knowledge. The military is by its very nature chauvinistic.\ So it is that by sanctioning ROTC, the administration has made an implicit moral decision. Is it any less reasonable that those who do not concur with this judgment request the administration to change it? Mr. Kramer decries the symbolic action of ousting ROTC from campus. By the same logic he would condemn draft-.card burning and non-co-operation with the selective service as insignificant and presenting a poor image. Yet what would happen if a majority Phone 372·0528 PARK PIZZERIA Jtalian Grinders Our Specialty Behind Do.,.idson Hell - One Block irorn the Campus 25 Park Place Scf.enectody, N.Y. of young men refused to co-operate with the clraft? What would happen if the majority of universities in this country refused to co-operate with ROTC? (If 50,000 people walked in, sang a bar of \Alice's Restaurant\ and walked out?) Is that any longer an irrelevant symbolic action? Is Mr. Kramer trying to tell us that pwb1ie opinion carries no weight? Of c·ourse, perhaps Mr. Kramer is right. Perhaps the p1:1blic has no direct influence on its governmemt. Perhaps the college should neglect its vital role as an intellectual and moral vanguard. Perhaps we should leave our humanity in the classroom. Maybe we are too afraid of falling out of favor of the government and the corporate elite whose funds we hope to use. Maybe we really aren't free. Maybe, Mr. Kramer, I r,eally did carry out a .. witch-hunt,\ but maybe, just maybe, I really bagged a witch. Robert Lange '70 Uninformed To the Editor: Apparently some Df the criticism 0f ROTC has been by people not fully informed on all aspects of the current program. For instance, a recent letter to the editor indicated that credit is granted for drill, a small segment of the entire ROTC curriculum, is included in a non-credit, pass or fail, course. Am ant.i-ROTC handout now in circulation on the campus indicates that the College is financially contributing to ROTC. Although in my estimation, monetary consideration should not be considered in determining the academic worth of a pr<ogram, the fact ,of the matter is that ROTC contributes much n:lQre fmancially to the College than it receives. The ROTC staff is readily available to any students or faculty members who may have queries .regarding the current program. RICHARD J' MCGEE Lt Col, USAF D . . lSCUSSIORS w To the Editor: The Brothers of Beta Tl\eta Pi\ have begun a lecture series and would like to take this opportunity to acquaint the college community with the 'J topics, dates, and times of the meetin.gs. Short lectures will be given ~ by students each Tuesday and Thursday evenings at 6: 15 P.M. The first discussions will he on French literature and will' be ti conducted by Ray Pike. These will be followed hy Ed Rundell speaking on Hemingway and Dick Tito on Spanish 1 literature. • Other topics will be added as the prograrn gets. under way. We believe that this is the type of constructive activity • which the fraternities on ca.mpHs should be encouraging and sponsoring. As we extend to 1 every member of the campus community an invitation to participate in what we tltink will be a valuable and interesting li)) program. The Brothers of Beta Theta Pi IF \.. POMEGRANATE PRODUCTIONS UNION COLLEGE SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 SUNDAY, MONDAY, TUESDAY, MAY 4, 5, ~ SHOWINGS AT 7:00 & 9:00 P.M. ADMISSION $1.00 AT DOOR , .. pJ

MAY2,.1969 • w of Beta Tl\eta Pi\ lecture series and to take this to acquail'it the with the 'J and times of the ures will he given ~ each Tuesday and nings at 6: 15 P.M. will he on and will' be ti Ray Pik!e. These by Ed Rundell Hemingway and Spanish 1 liter.ature. • be added as the that this is the activity • on ca.mpl'ls encourag.ing and we extend to of the campus an invitation to what we think will le and interesting 'i)) of Beta Theta Pi IF \.. ·'· _) PAGE 3 MAY 2, 196~ FACULTY FORIM: ROTC Snider 'Offers ,. Union Men and Academic Freedom ~ Draft Advice Counseling for students faced _. with the draft is available from David Snider, c<lordinator of religious activities. During the year Snider has • been serving as chairman of the draft counselinl!; committee of the Schenectady Area Clergy and Laymen concerned about Vietnam. That organization assists men in ;[~eating legal aid. If there are any Union men who would like to set up a co rnmitt ee to provide information on the draft to others on campus, Snider would help these men to locate materials for distribution, he said. ,, Since October, Snider has been counseling; Union men and others concerning the draft and alternatives to it. The following information is available at his office in Silliman Hall: The Draft Law, written by a Yale Law student and published by Yale University; The Draft Law and Your Choices; Handbook for Conscientious Objectors; Statements of Religious Bodies on the Conscientious OIJjector; Can a Jew Be a C.:ln scient ious Objector? and Civilian Work Agency List for Conscientious Objectors. Me11. who want to \' explore extra~legal alternatives to the draft might be interested in this literature: On the Resistance; The Non-Cooperator and the I>raft; Emigration to Canada; Legal Notes for Draft Age Men; Exiled; Handbook for the Draft Age En~igrant. •- Tile PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP . 262 Saratoga Road MAYFAIR SHOPf>ING CENTER AI the Sign of the Red Neon Pipe TUES. thru SAT. l 0 A.M. to 6 P.M. calto- THURS. and FRI.: 7 Jo 9 PM SCOTIA, N. Y. Phone 3\9~-1630 THE IDOL IS HERE lf :); can judge by conversations I have llad recently, the argument that a student should be free to join ROTC is beginning to thoroughly confuse the issues raised by the question of abolishing ROTC on college campuses. furthermore, it reflects what seems to me a mistaken and d:mgerous notion of \academic freedom\ In the face of the fact that this concept, abused and perverted, is berng used to justify research in biological and chemical warfare and seciet contracts with the Defense Department, it is hard even to remember ·that tile doctrine of academic freedom was formally established in American colleges, especially through the 1915 AA UP statement·on the subject, as a defense of the teacher's obligation to truths which were critical of the reactionary politics of big business tmstees and as a protection against inane patriotic witch-hunting. Three Ermrs In the argument for the right of the student to take ROTC (or rather-and this is an important difference which has not been ade<juately noticed-the duty of the college to supply the ROTC program for him) three related errors are made: 1) that the college has a responsibility to-and does-offer to any sizable group of students whatever program they want; 2) that the college should not on moral ground's oppose the will of some of its stadents; 3) that the college should not-and does not-make moral discriminations in its policies and choice of programs. Guenilla Warfare These arguments are patent · falsehoods, both as descriptions of fact and descriptions of principle. LeCs suppose for a moment that 75 students (the namber of men in RO\FC here right now) petition the college to establish a ROTC-like program for training revolutionists for guerrilla warfare. The college would-I think should-be genuinely outlaged at this suggestion. I have no doubt that it would firmly reject the students' argument that their rights of personal choice were being infringed; it would assert that to train men for gueullla warfare is a violatil>n of the spirit of the college, its commitment to humanism and rationality and its belief in the importance of human life. !his illustration should demonstrate clearly that the college will, if pressed in unpleasant directions, finally assert its responsibility for making moral and humane choices. It should also demonstrate the obvious: ROTC is on campus and, revolutionary guerrillas are not because ROTC is part of a goverrunentally organized and legal system of destruction. Needless to say, its powers of de :str.llction are also immensely greater than those of guerrillas are ever lilcely to be. CAR WASH '\ FOR THE BLACK ALLIANCE THIS SATURDAY Educatio11al Humanity A second argument for the maintenance ·of ROTC, with or without academic credit, is that it trains a relatively humane officer. Most recently this argument has been reiterated .by >Cokmel O'Bier. Before we rush to ·the conclusion that this must ·be tru•e, I :think we must demand that· its supporters come forward with ,evidence that ROTC officers have in battle made better, more humane judgments than have academy~train~d men. (I should be surprised if tt·he military has not researched thLs point.) I fear it is a kind of acad•emic arrogance (\the educated man,_ ~~he man who has read Goethe, m11st be more rational and humane'') tha1! at the moment sways students and faculty to Colonel O'Bier's view. :1· my self suspect that the option forr hllmaneness in battle is a very narr-ow one, that, at best, the liberally ·eeducated man may save a few lives in ·his assault on. a town but as a sub()trdinate officer he has not the option of refusing to assault it altogether.. I have also seen no cGmpelling evidence in my experience wibh the \educated\ and the \uneducated\ that education is steadily raisll]g; .the level of humanity in this country (though the inhumanity ·Of the educated is notoriously more subtle). More importantly. the very acceptance of ROTC on a \bberal and humane college carnpu s\ is an argument for the rectitude·of RO~C, the military, and war, for iF such a place does not disapprove of Illilitarism, why should anyone? I suspect too that if ROTC graduates had' ,prove<! \too soft\ the Pentagon woul!d 1 not be as eager as it is to contin-ue and expand the program.-A:s Col<>nel O'Bier says, the Air Force has. been ''very impressed with Union :stlLdents ... M<1ral Neu-trality If we pui il!Side-at least until the evidence is preesentoo-the appeal to academic pnd.e which defenders of ROTC are m::aking, we might ask ourselves what has happened to \academic freedom,. that its defense has involved us in the entirely unsupportable notion that we are obliged to sup:>ply a ROTC program and the m()re .pernicious underlying assumption that academic freedom is equatable with moral neutraility. I say \neutrraility .\ but under the circumstanc~s of today--with American colleges increasingly dependent om government funds, American scientists dependent on research grants from the federal government, and administrators dependent evten in choosing new curricula uwon what will be subsidized' by government sources-the \OVOid is dangerously close to \comJllicity\, The confused history of thee fight for academic freedom he ~e. documented in Hofstadte.r and Metzger's Development of Academic Fnedom in the United States and elsewhere, indicates that we have nevei really come to terms >Vi1h tllis dilemma. Professor's Position We derived om faith in academic freedom in lar..ze part from the 19th century mot!(!) and practice of the German uni:i:ve:rsities: Lemfreheit (freedom t() l~arn) and Leltrfreiheit (freedom to te:acli). ~he German idea was undoubteclly liberating and vital, but the Geim.an professor, as if in return for his freedom in the classroom to pursue the truth relentlessly ana without regard for its social and pollitical unacceptability, accepted a nearly total limitation of his expression end activity outside his university. Tbe:re loyalty to the state was expected end demanded of him, and even Clarik Ken, while praising the vitality ofrthe German university, acknowledges that the Gennan university sy:stern \could be subverted by Hitler because of its total dependence on the state\. Down tooLouis', l-et us go, Let the. lager freely flow. By MRS. JOCELYN·HARVEY (Despite the greater pragmatism and social involvement of the late 19th early 20th century American academic, an echo of the Gennan separation of expression inside the academy from expression outside it enters the 1940 AAUP document on academic freedom: \When (the college or university teacher) speaks or writes .as a citizen, he should be free from institutional censorship or discipline, but his special position in the community imposes special obligations. As a man of learning and an educational officer, he should remember that the public may judge his profession and his institution by his utterances. Hence he should at all times be accurate, should exercise appropriate restraint, should show respect for .the opinions of others, and should make every effort to indicate that he is not an institu tiona! spokesman\. Basic as this idea is even today to most academics, it is totally mystifying. What does \his special position in the community\ mean? His freedom in the classroom? His knowledge? And why does even this liberal document require the teacher to clearly differentiate his position from that of his school: do we ask the head of U.S. Steel or Walter Reuther or a minister or in fact any employee to make such a discrimination? Onwittingly this document reflects the widespread American fear of the teacher arid what he may do to his students and the equally strong paranoia of the institutions of learning in this country.) Commitment to Neutraility Thus, the American openly and the Gennans implicitly sepa~ated the professor from his school: in the United States the former could within limits, sometimes severe limits, speak freely in the outside political air; the latter would preserve neutraility upon controversial issJles, It has done so with remarkable success; very few institutional \intrusions\ have been made by a deliberate consensus of faculty and administration, and recently almost all \socially committed actions\ related, say, to admission of minority students, restraints on campus expansion into the community, etc., have been forced upon colleges by student pressure or the anticipation ofit. It is, in fact, the American college's commitment ot neutraility which makes its development of academic freedom even more frightening than the German. As Hofstadter and Metzger point out, the German professors saw themselves \not as neutral observeis of life, but as the diviners a'nd spokesmen of absolutes, as oracles of transcendent truths. In the normative sciences particularly, 'professing' in Germany tended to be the presentation with aggressive finality of deep subjective convictions,\ but \the German idea of 'convincing' one's students, of winning them over to the personal system and philosophical view of the professoi, was not condoned by American academic opinion. Rather, as far as classroom actions were concerned, the proper stance for American professors was thought to be one of neutrality on controversial issues, and silence on substantive issues that lay JAY BILLIARD LOUNGE 167 JAY ST. SPECIAL RATE& FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS Bring Your Dates Free Parking In Rear A uniqu-e _place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLA US RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. NOW IN OUR 74th YEAR Fer reservations phone FR 4-8917 outside tile competence\. scope of Abso-lute Restrictions t hei:r If this silence has been broken somewhat in recent times, it has only been broken by individual faculty members and not by the colleges at which they teach. On the subject of the Vietnam war, for instance, the silence of u~iversity presidents, w h() tend to tltinl< of their statements of personal opinion as statements of university p()licy and thus simply refrain from speaking, has ·been nearly absolute. Callege faculty are frequently warned in making statements on controversial issues not to use coll(;:geietterhead and to make it clear that they speak only for themselves. These restrictions are not in themselves bad (though their motivation is usually ignoble) but in any thoughtful appraisal they reveal that as a eooomunity the college has surrendered its position as intellectual and moral spokesman. The freedom of individual expression is already -castrated since it is deprived of the genuine force it would have if it accGmpanied a commitment by the college and university communities of this country to certain basic moral piinciples. A Free Choice Even this reality is less disturbing than the fact that in the piesent state of colleg:e dependence on the government; the American school does make clloices-to aff1liate with IDA, to accept ROTC prognms, to allow resea:Ich in BC warfare, etc.-which can no longer be called morally neut:Eal decisions. Yet many liberal acad~mics have evidently come to the . point at which they believe that to allow the scientist, say, to 'Pursue his BC warfar research ·or a st11dent to join RO'ft implies n(). moral judgement pro o con and is th~efore evidence o academic freedom, whereas th student who objects to .thes• activ.ities .and want~ them eliminate! is a moral· absolutist and potentia fascist. Fm myself, I hardly believf that the student joirrilig ROTC a1 Union is ruking a free choice (he i1 merely op;ting for tile more attractive way of fulfilling an obligation whid: is not free and which he is not likely to like; if be were morally committed to the military I imagine he would be at West !Point), and I find it incredible that the government spo nsor·~il programs I have mentioned, most of which bring in govemmell!t funds, are accepted by the.college ;primarily because they are intellectually beneficial. The \morally neutral\ institution of our day cannot be morally neutral; if it is neu:tral it ·cannot be free. Yet the fact remains thilt the moral and intellectual!renergy which piecipitated the 1915 A'AUP doctrine and which moved great numbers of academics in the early years of this century is simply not to be found, with rare occasional ·exceptions, on American faculties to-day. T!Ie.reason, [suspect, is that ilie traditionally liberal academic always understands very keenly the threat from big business and rightisi patri() ts and reacts with sensible valor against them but has not yet begun to .understand that the institution in wlticll he placed so much of l\is· hope foi combatting those invidious .forces. the fedenl governmenit, has itself become a dangerous ,enemy to the morality l1e cherishes. The Ar-ticulate Plaid Suit Very Proper .... Ver~ Cool. Partial to plaids-interesting plaids?' Come in and see our Dearusgate warm weather collection. Tlhe fabric: a crisp 55% Dacron® polyester/45~ wool blend that keeps its good manners on the warmest days. Important: these suits are tailored in Deansgate's own understaaed natut·al shoulder construction, and thet·eare many colors to choQse fl·om. $85. Deansgate® Dall's Men's Shop 1599 UPPER UHION STREET

Concor·dy Sports : --P~A-G~E~4~------~------------------------~--------------------~L-----------~~--------------------------------------M-A __ Y_2_,1_9_6_9 __ , Nine, Nebnen, '72 Track Top Engiueers; Varsity· Cinders Lose. Sophomore lefty Larry Berkeley in llis shutout mound debut against Hamilton here Wednesday. In going the distance, Bed;;:eley scattered three hits. The Garnet beat the Continentals, 2-0. Nets Stand At 2-l; Tough Tests Ahead By BRUCE GARBER Fo !lowing Tuesday's 6-3 romp over R.P.I., tlte Garnet netmen now boast a 2-1 record. In a surprising upset. the Bensonmen won the match early in the afternoon by triumplting in five of the six singles events. Jeff Kurzius clinched the victory for the Dutchmen by outlasting his opponent in three grueling sets. It was his most impressive win this year. Jeff South took the second spot in two sets with his powerful serve and an unusually strong game. Ron Wendolowski was the only defeated Union singles player, but in the estimation of his teammate Steve Karp, \Ron played the toughest man on the R.P.I. squad.\ Karp went on to win his match in two sets, as did singles teammates Len Duckworth and Andy Blumenthal. Blumenthal, who took over for ailing A1 Meisel, looked sharp at his. new spot, and quickly disposed ofhis opponent. Lase Doubles All three doubles matches were toss-ups, going three sets each. With the afternoon already a success, the results were not crucial, as Kurzius, still exausted fn> m his singles match, unsuccessfully combined with Soath. Duckworth and Karp met the same prolonged fate, but Jack Liu and Wendolowski drew last blood by winning the third dol.lbles inatch. Friday the team travels to Hamilton College to battle the h ig hl y t au ted Continentals. Saturday they again go West, this time to meet the Rochester Yellow jackets. Both teams handily defeated R.P.I., but with new confidence and enthusiasm, the Garnet momentum is building, and this promises to be their most successful season in many years. Varsity Demolished; Frosh Roll, 105-40 By HENRY FEIN 1'he Garnet varsity track team suffered its fourth defeat in five outings Wednesday, as undefeated RPI coasted to an easy 116-27 victory. The amazing Garnet frosh, however, easily handled their Engineer foes, 10540. The yearlings now stand at 4·0 for the season. The varsity managed to win only two events, and the Engineers swept three events as well as both relays. Weight men Lax Orushed, 14 3 George Gardner, who won the shot with a toss of 45'4\ and Ed Blechner, third in the shot and first in the discus at 131'8>i\ were the only Garnet victors. Art Riccio prevented an Engineer sweep of the dashes with a third in the 22<l. Terry McManus placed in three events, with thirds in the 880 mile and a second in the javelin. Frosh Win Again Things were considerably brighter for the frosh~ who dominated their oppone.nts as much as the Engineer varsity overcame the Dutchmen. Rick Jaszczak had another outstanding afternoon, with victories in the 220 and 440, and seconds in the I 00 and the Pole Vault. In addition, the frosh speedster anchored both winning Garnet relays. The other yearling stars continue to perform well. Among those who shone were double winners Bryant Moekel, who took the Mile and Two Mile, and Rich Thickens, victor in both the shot put and discus competitions. The squads split their travels tomorrow. The varsity will journey to Clinton to face Hamilton College, while the frosh will compete in the Cobleskill Invitational 01eet. The varsity will trek to Middlebury Wednesday before both squads host the ICAC championships May 10. Bats.me.n Down RPI, Hamilton, ! Ih. baseball action this week, the Garnet nine stretched its unbeaten streak to four by downing ltF.L on Tuesday, 5·2, and by sll.utting out Hamilton on Wednesday., bya 2.0 score. Str()llg Gamet pitching highligi:Jted both ball games. In Tuesd,.y's game, Joe Douglas turned irl a good job in his first start Ln three years, and Bill Neid.eJ: c!Upped in with .some fine reHef ··work. Douglas, the winnin:g :Pitcher, hurled five and tw<Hldnls innings, was touched for siX. hits, and give up both Engineer mns. Neidel came on to retire the side in the sixth, and pi-tched shutout ball the rest of th~ way, allowing only one hit. b1 :lhe process, the big Tigh..t-hander stretched his scoreless streak to seventeen and one-th.inl ·innings. Tie It Up Titnely hitting also helped the Gamet ,e;aase in Tuesday's game. Although the Engineers p);lshed across the afternoon's first run in tit e third, the Dutchmen fought back in the top of the fourtl-1. tn tie it up. Shortstop Dale Ji)ng singled, Ken Pearce walked, and 'Tom Miller cracked a base,llil to drive in Long for the tyingmarker. The Garnet scored two more runs, \bo·tli unearned, in the fifth innin~. Right-fielder Jim Wilson tool< first after being hit by a pitch, and scored the tie-breaking run after a fielder's choice, a passed ball, and an Engin-eer miscue. Mike Solomon then singled in an insurance run. Out of Reach Afier R.P.I. scored again in the satht 0 stay in the ballgame, the J;utclmen added two more runs in 1lle eighth inning to put the game out of reach. Mike McGe:e drew a base-on-balls, and move<l to second on Miller's bunt attempt. McGee then took third :()n an infield out, and scoJed on a base-hit by catcher Bria11 Gidlow. Neidel got his sec<Jn:d hit of the day to knock in Un:ion's final run. Sotlle fine pitching by sephotnore left-hander Larry Be 1 k e l e y h i g h li g h t e d Wed\Iesday's game against the visiting Continentals. Berkeley, in his first outing of the season, pitdt ed excellent ball, as he went the distance, fanned three, walked: three, and gave up the same ,number of hits. The only major threat to Berkeley's shutout was Hamilton shortstop By BILL HOLI..;ERAN Mike Greico's triple. a manunoth blast that chased Mike Solom0n way up the hill in left. Berkeley, however, pitched out of that inning unscathed. Load 'Fhe Bases The Dutchmen got on the board first, scoring in the fifth inning. Dale Long walked, swiped second, and scored on Solomon's first RBI single of the game. The Garnet had missed an excellent opportunity in the last of the fourth, when they loaded the bases with nobody out and failed to score. The batsmen added an insurance run in the seventh, when Brian Gidlow reached second on a two-base throwing error by Greico, and went over to third on Berkeley's single. The Garnet catcher was then thrown out at the plate by Long's infield grounder. Solomon, however, came'- through wHh his second run-scoring single of the game, sen.ding Berkeley across the 1 plate. Kea Pearce followed with a base-hit, hut Long was gunned down at the plate on a fine play by Greico, who had fielded -s Pearce's grounder ·deep in the hole ta his right and fired to the plate. Skei!l On Line The Dl:ltchemen will go after their fifth straight win om Saturday, when they meet the • Drew Rangers on Alexander Field in a game slated to begin at 12-noon.. The winning streak, however, will not be the only .1 skein on the line in that one. Neidel, who will start the ballgame for the home team, will be seeking to extend his\ scoreless-inning streak and will also be looking for his third straight shutout. ... I. ~- . .. . .. ( 1 l \1 '• The varsity lacross.e team was demolished by Cortland Wednesday, as the h()st:s coasted to a 14-3 victory. The Garnet are now 3·4 on the season, while the Staters have lost only once in ten outings, falling onl¥ to powerhouse Cornell by a. single gaal. with four goals and two assists. The laxmen will once again have a free weekend, but have three contests scheduled for ne:xt week. On Tuesday, the squad travels to Colgate. Trinity invades on Thursday, with the game set for 2:30 on Daley Field. The stickmen then return to the road on Saturday with a C()ntest at Alfred. Boulevard Bowl ,, H The game was all Cortland, as the Garnet fell behind 2.0 .at the quarter. With only a minute left in the half, Cortland led 9.(). Mike Chater then tallied. twice for the Garnet from the crease, assisted by Doug Duval and Steve Bauer, respectively. The halftime score was 9-2. Cortland built tlte score to 11·2before Bruce Westby scored on a pass from Duval to round out the Dutchmen's ta.llies for the afternoon. The trurd quarter ended at 12-3. Bill Eberenz led a well-balanced Cortl:an.d .attack Now's The Time Spring catches a young man's fancy Euy your Wedding Ring at Maurice Graubart & Sons Jewelers, 166 Jay St. Serving Union for 3 generations. 135 ERIE BOULEV\ ARD 40 AMF BOWLlN,G lANES - Open 24 Hours [)e~ily - SNACK 'BAR ON PREMISES DEW IT'T'S Cafeteria aod 'f111p lltHJm Fine Food and teg<il 1 !k¥erages 11 8 · 1 2~ JAY 'SIREIT If your goal is a summer spent handsomely, shoot in for a look at our sportswear assortments. The styling throughout is on target, the quality up to our usual high standards and the selection, the biggest in town. Aim for a complete outfitting! tUqt §q .• uirr ~bnp •· 420 STATE STREET, 377-3061 © {• il C..•

.~ t. MAY 2,1969 II' Lose. Founded at Union College 1877 '\ VOL 98, NO. 45 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., MAY 6, ~969 PRICE TWENTY CENTS came~ his second of the game, across the~ followed with -Elections Thursday Faculty Council To Face ROTC Issue .. As CampaignS Climax Several Alternatives To Be Debated Long was gunned on. a fine play had fielded 1 nder ·deep in the and fired to the OnLine will go afl:er straight win Ofl they meet the , rs on Alexander slated to begin at e winning streak, not be the only .1 line in that one. will start the home team, will to extend his\' . · streak and will for his third ut. (With WRUCBroa:dca.st The 1969 Student Government Election campaign will conclude Wednesday evening with a question and answer prograrli on WRUC featuring the Presidential . candidates. Listeners may phone in questions beginning at 10 p.m .. Elections for \' the offices of President, Vice President, and Secretary will beheld Thursday night. Ballots for this year's election, which may be won by .any candidate with a majority of the vote, may be cast at fraternity houses and dormitory lobbies from . ., 6:30 to 11:00 P.M. Four candidates for the office of President, Donald Kessler, '71, Howard Blank, '70, WHliam Dawson, '71, and Burt Yanki:ver, '71, have s1:1brnitted petitions to the Elections Commission. , , Walter Spencer, '72, will oppose Eric Cherson, '70, for the office of Vice President. John Castellani, '72, will run unopposed for Secretary of \ the Senate. Kessler is Vice President of the Senate and was co-chairman of the in . fated CO-ED Week. Dawson is ·\S attempting to move up to school wide governmeBt in his race for office from his post as Piesident of the Class of ~ 1971. Howard Blank is an off campus Student Senator and Yankiver is a leading member of the Swimming Team. Walter Spencer is a Student Senator and was co-author of the new Student Government constitution. John Castellani is a member of the Senate ·, and the Committee on Committees. \~ Viena Program Gets Applaus And Criticism . <.~ Election Results .President- '70 Peter Garrison '71 Jim Kadamus '72 John C. Throumoulos Vice President- '70 Mike Keesee \71 Bruce Garber '72 Gerry llyman Treasurer- '70 Jeffrey South '71 Tom Davison '72 Robert Michaelson Secretary- \70 Dennis Meyers '71 William Ouzer \72 George Kaplan The Faculty Council will vote tomorrow to determine the status of Air Force ROTC at Union. Accompanying the two-part recommendation of the Curricular Affairs Committee, are four proposals to be submitted by Prof. William M. Murphy of the English Department. The Curricular Affairs Committee \voted unam.imously to recommend: 1. The continuation of £ormal recognition for the AFROTC program at Union College. 2. The elimination of degree credit for Air Science courses.\ Other Recommendations The committee also made the following suggestions: 1. That the Air Force consider granting credit for certain academic courses ... which may satisfy some of the academic objectives of the ROTC program ... 2. That the college explore, with the Air Force and other interested colleges and universities, a plan for transferring the purely-military aspects of the program to summer camps ... \ In a memorandum to the Faculty yesterday, Prof. Murphy noted \the Committee has not raised the question anywhere in its report of another issue related to AFROTC activity ... That is the academic status and Faculty rank of members of the AFROTC. No Faculty Status \I strongly feel, in common with many of my colleagues here and at other colleges and universities throughout the country, that those who are hired .exclusively or mainly for the teaching of military courses and whose appointments and tenure are determined by some branch. ofthe Arts Festival 1969 By L. S. FRIEDMAN Armed Forces of the United States should not be granted Faculty status with the right to vote on matters involving the regularly constituted, non-military curriculum.\ Since he believes the Faculty was not pnwided with \a range of choices broad enough .. Jo express itself accurately and fully,\ Prof. Murphy propos~~~ to introduce the following alternative's in Faculty Council: Glee Club To Travel The Union College Glee Club, under the direction of Hugh Allen Wilson associate professor of music, will sfug Sunday (5/11} at the National Cathedral in Washington, D.C. On the way to its first appearance in the nation's capital, the Glee Club will stop at Athens, West Virginia for a concert Friday evening at Concord College. The Natilnal Cathedral performance will consist of \Now Let Every Tounge Adore Thee,\ J.S. Bach; \Sanctus and Benedictus,\ anonymous; \Exsultate justi,\ da Viadana; and \Quatre Petites Prieres. de St. Francois D'Assise,\ Poulenc. For the concert at Concord, the Glee Club will present its National Cathedral program plus additional selections. Steven A. Cole, a sophomore, will sing \'Amor ti vieta,\ Giordano; two songs from \Banalites Poulenc; and \\Sally Gardens\ and \\Oliver Cromwell,\ folksongs arranged by Britten. \1 . That the AFROTC program at Union College lie abolished. 2. That the AFROTC program at Union College be an extfa-curricular activity for which rro .course credi1 shall be granted; and that the instructors in any AFROTC program offered at Union College shall not be members of the Faculty and shall have no right to vote in Faculty meetings . although the Faculty would be happy to kave them attend such meetings a~ guests with the right to speak. 3. That the AFROTC program a1 Union College, if course credits are granted, shall be offered in summe1 school only;\ instructors will be regarded as specified in the statemen1 in the second proposal). Prof. Murphy's fmal proposal will be offered if the Curricular Affain Committee's first recommendatio11 should prevail. Trustees' Decision It recommends that AFROTC instructors should not be Facult) members, nor should they have t]u right to vote in Faculty meetings. H{ also plans to introduce his proposals ir the First Division (Humanities), and the General Faculty. Bailey Cup T• DeMichele In Prize Day Fete The Frank Bailey Cup, awarded t< the senior who has rendered tlu greatest service to the College in an) field, was given to Donald L DeMichele on Prize Day, hel< Saturday, in the library plaza . By RICHARD PA TIERS ON, JR. Concordy London Correspondent w -.;. At about mid-term, Union's first \Spring Term in Vienna\ program is receiving mixed reviews from the 30 Uppman Joins Glee Club Tonight The ·Catlin Prize, to the senior iJ liberal :uts with the highest scholasti1 record, was split among Charles J Hogan, Laurance J. Suter, and Harol1 M. Szenes. Harold S. Ross won th Donald Coulter prize, to the bes debater in the College. The Daggei prize, to a senior for conduct an citizenship, was presented to Grady C Aronstamm. A prize for the best wor in the History Department, the Dot prize, was awarded to Richard I Marshall. shoot in The styling to our usual in town. • © . men participating. ., '~ The group, all German language students under the direction of Prof. Fredrick Klemm, Department of Modern Languages, is spending this term in Vienna as part of the Camp. Ed. program. They study German, art and art history, and do a paper or \' project related to Vienna. These projects may range from a study of Viennese music to the character of the Viennese people. It appears that the men have adjusted quickly to some aspects of life as students in Vienna. The ·I 4'. more-athletic members of the group play basketball, wrestle and engage in other sports with local Austrian students. Some are regularly dating ,.. H Viennese girls. Many enjoy the easy, and inexpensive, availability of the top quality concerts and theater for which t• Vienna is famous. So far, it appears that the program may be of immense benefit to those participating. Discontent The program; however, can not be dissociated from Vienna, and a probing of the feelings of manu of the • ~ members of the group reveals emotions ranging from uneasy discontent to outright dissatisfaction with life in that city. ~· '\;.· I visited Vienna recently and spoke to some of the students about the situation. In reply to my question, \How's Vienna?,\ one student replied ll l' frankly, \It sucks. I've been going to a lot of concerts lately, but other than that there's nothing to do.\ Another J1 l1, replied that he couldn't wait to get back to Union. Another was \bored stiff.'' There was even talk, only half in fun, that each one should Continued on page 3 Arts Festival '69 continues tonight as Metropolitan Soloist Theodor Uppman sings with the Glee Club at an 8:30 concert in Memorial Chapel and a Czech film, .. The End of August at the Hotel Ozone,\ (see review, page 2) is shown again at 7 and 9 p.m. in room .. ·c--~~--~- ·•' l I • 1 . 1 l I '1 The Sixth Street Theater performed Saturday in the Library Plaza as part of Arts Festival, 1969. : By BRUCE H. HUSTEN 016 of the social sciences building. The program for the Glee Club concert, according to director Hugh Allen Wilson, is '\broad in content with considerable emphasis on somewhat lighter music.\ Baritone Uppman will sing a solo group and then join the Glee Oub in Stanford's \Songs of the Sea.'' Films Set Tomorrow \'An Evening of .Experimental Films\ will be shown in SS 0 16 at 7 and 9:15 p.:tn. tomorrow, free of charge and courtesy of Pomegranate Productions. Films to be included are \Trip to the Moon,\ \'Un Chien Andalou,\ \Life and Death of a Hollywood Extra,\ \Seasons' Changes,\ \Ersatz '\Fiddle-De-Dee \Zuckerkandl \'Blood of Beasts,\ •oonance Chromatic,\ and \'Wheeeels No.1.\ The latter ftlm is produced l:Jy Stan Vanderbeek, who appeared at Union two years ago. Fold Concert Thursday A fold-jazz concert will be presented free of charge beginning at 8 p.m. Thursday in the Rathskeller. Featured will be singer-songwriter Carl Rosenstock '69 who has appeared at the Eighth Step, the Cafe Lena in Saratoga and on WPRI radio. Alan Ziegler '70, who writes some of the material with Rosenstock, will accompany hirn on guitar. Also performing at the 'Skeller Thursday will be an all-girl jug band from Russell Sage and the Cliff Safane Unit. Friday's Events Arts Festival events for Friday include an 8 p.m. lecture in Memorial Chapel on \The Arts and Human Environment\ by John McHale of SUNY at Binghamton; and Ingma:r Bergman fUm, \\All These Women,\ at 8 p.m. in SS 016 and a 10 p.m. performance in Old Chapel by John Cohen and the New Lost City Ramblers. Details of Friday's events and the remainder of Arts Festival '69 will be published in \'Concordiensis\ on Friday. The Heck-Steingut award~ to th student majoring in Center I with th best work in Political Science, vn split between Gary F. Prevost an Lawrence Pedowitz. Edward Valentir won the Lasnik prize, given to pre-medical student. Class of 1973 Takes Shape 503 Acknowledge Acceptance Five hundred and three high school seniors have responded to the May 1 admissions date by saying they will attend Union College and b::y submitting their fifty dollar deposit .. The Class of 1973 includes 19 black students and was the result of 986 acceptances and 1860 applications. Jonhathan Pearson III, Director of Admissions, said that his office was asked to recruit a freshman class of 460 students instead of 425 as was done for the Class of 1972. He said that President Martin felt a significant number of students would be studying abroad next year to warrant increasing the freshman class to 460. Pearson stated that a higher percentage of students accepted, chose Union as the school they would attend than in previous years an.d that this accounted for the total of 503 incoming freshmen. He expected th.: not more than 10 students wou .change their mind during the sumrne Sixty-one black students applie however, only 41 of those completl their applications, and 35 we accepted. The Admission Office received 2: more applications for the Class 1973 than they did for the Class 1972, however, Pearson said they f, short of their self-imposed goal 2000. He added that he thought .. , need 2000 plus applications to get good selection for a college like oun Pearson said part of the fact mo student accepted Union and tll applications increased this year tc was because \our own student bo' was talking things up at home.\ I cited the three term-three couJ program as an example.

PAGE 2 I \Those who ·rnake peaceful revolution impossibl·e make revolution inevi:table.\ P io lent Publ&tl'l~d iuPad·oy and Fraday dur- In& thr ·•chool yrer by ~~~ Stuc!•nt Body of ·\:JnlonColl•&•· Sckrneclady N.Y. N 111onol Ad,rrt1A1MI R•prt· Adv~ruamc· St'rv·1c~. Inc: .. Collt·ae- J>ublloh•r• Rrprurntal\'· 360 Lt'un11on .Avf'nut. N. Y, C. ·£d1toflal OH1ee. Old G.ym. Un1on Coll\l\· Pubhc•••on ·on'\\· Wl1n•- ~uru Pnntm& & B1nd•\l Co .. Inc .. ., 16·41·11 F••hh •Avo .. Troy. 2l5-U50 .. ·OH•c• •• S•cond Cloll Marl' Mattrr. Subacnpt1on 20• a copy, S6 • year t:Se·llvtred ar~ywh~rr ·an the lJnatrd St1te1. NEILS. KRAMER Editor-in-Chief WliLUAM OUZER CARL GOLDSA.ND Managing Editor Business Manager SENIOR :BOARD Paul Andrews, Andrew Crisses, Henry Fein, Bruce Husten, Alan Mell, Peter Weingold. JUNIOR BOARD Jeff Birn, Uoyd Birns, Jerry Levine, Jody Saslow, Michael Swirsky, John Schosheim, Jon Brunswick. STAFF Tony Beninati. Bruce Garber, Bill Holleran. Phil Galdston, Alan Greenfield. George Kaplan, Hank Levine. Steve Levy, Stu Muss, Gary Prevost, Randy Sutter_ MAY 6, 1969 LETTERS TO THE EDITOR Screens To the Editor: The screens in the fal:lcets of Fox ar.td Davidson are missing. E. Piers0n '69 J. Frost '71 W. Cmuss '71 .candidacy To the Editor: · As a candidate fGr th.e office of President of ·the Student Senate, I would like to take this opportunity to introduce myself. With the development of the new constitution, a great step toward meaningful student government was taken. The ambiguous representation by class was replaced by a rep r e S·e n t ative :structure. Students consider the senate to be a legitimate force through which campus wide issues:can be resolved (as was the case with ROTC). As Vice-President of the Senate, I have learned the way in which provisions of the new constitution can be used effectively to voice student opinion. It is important that provisions in the constitution such as student-faculty committees be developed. Since I have been at Union, issues such as reVIsing the calander, Comprehensive Education, and the revision of t!ie grading system have been widely discussed. Little action has been taken on these issues. I think in resolvi'ng these and other issues the views of both the faculty and the students should be taken into account. Other issues I would like to see investigated and resolved by the Senate are scholarships for underprivilidged students, c ompre hnsive examinations and co-education. I feel it is of the utmost importance that the Senate be representative of the student body. If elected, [ will require that senlttors bring salient issues back to their respective fiv,jng units for discussion bef0re a vote within the Senate is ta:k.en. So that living units be fully aware of the aciions of their senators, I J To the Editor: We the undersigned believe in the importance of effective., student government at Union. We feel the :new Student Senate and constitl}tion can do much to improve the future of student+ government, but the Stl:1dent Senate needs effective leadership to function. Don Kessler can,, provide this leadership. Don 's capabilities of dynamic leadership,. plus his eX;perience gained in service to student~ government best quaiify him for the job of coordinating and leading student government. We support Don Kessler for 1 President of the Student Senate. John M. Brown, Jr. J1 Ivan J. Tether James B. Stillman, Jr. Charles D. Cusimano vi Grady C. Aronstamm Eldon R. Munson Richard Steinwurtzel Bob Michaelson ~ Ross Fraser HemyP. Kass Daniel Z. Aronzon Bruce M. Garber ' Glen M. Rapoport Joseph F. Furlong III Laurence N. Mullman 1,. Knowing Better Idol: Better Than Ever If co-education for Union is approved by the Trustees, I would set up a committee to investigate how the transition can be made smoothly. Recommendations of these committees will be brought back to the living units for consideration, after which the Senate will vote ori these proposals. In following this process, the Senate will be a forum for constructive ideas and meaningful dissent rather than a stagnating body. will require that the votes taken on these issues be published in the minutes of the meeting and that the minutes be posted in all living units. This will insure that the Seaate is representative of the student body. To the Editor: May I say that Col. O'Bier's statement (and the foundation of the Morrell Act), that ROTC infuses the professional military., with a humanist spirit, was emotionally consoling. I had begun to fear that such celebrated humanists as Gen. Curtis LeMay were the exceptions of ROTC training, rather than the rule. I shall sleep better tonight knowing that the Air Force pilots who are defoliating the Viet Namese . lands and murdering the Viet Namese people are, perhaps, men of a liberal education which included ROTC, and not some uneducated nitwits who don't know better. In a campus atmosphere leaning evermore toward the visual, and away from the printed media, the role of the literary magazine has inevitable shifted. But many campus magazine editors have either not recognized or refused to acknowledge the changing role of their publications. Thus on most campuses the literary magazine has continued in past tradition, gorging page after page full of type in a most monotonous fashion. The effect of such stagnating lack of creativity has been that both contributor and reader have lost interest in the literary magazine. Staffs have dwindled, readership plunged, so that th.e general quality of the publication has declined. The Idol has faced these problems in the past, with the same result of a shrinking By PAUL ANDREWS readership. But if the warm response to the latest issue of The Idol is any indication, it appears that the magazine has found the most appealing approach to a visually-oriented environment. All judgments on the actual content of the magazine aside, the layout itself achieves a pleasing appearance. The print-crammed pages have been abandoned for a more varied approach: poems superimposed on photographs, seven print types. In all, the magazine is pleasing just to thumb through without actually reading anything. \I think in this issue we attempted to achieve an aesthetic balance between form and content,\ Idol Editor Scott Siegler said. Siegler said that he intends to enter this year's volume of The Idol in the National Literary Magazine SUMMER JOBS UNDER AMERICAN FORSIGHT'S UNIQUE GUARANTEED INCO~IE PROGRAl\1 YOU CAN EARN $1000 to $2500 WITII NO PREVIOUS EXPERIENCE QUALIFICATIONS: 1. YOU MUST HAVE A CAR 2. YOU MUST LIVE WITHIN THESE AREAS: Massachusetts Northern &Eastern Connecticut Delaware Rhode Island New Jersey Maryland Eastern Pennsylvania OR WITHIN 50 Ml LES OF: Springfield, Massachusetts Boston, Massachusetts Providence, Rhode Island Newark, New Jersey Philadelphia, Pennsylva11ia Baltimore, Maryland Come and Learn About This Terrific Summer ]()b Opportunity TODAY - i\IA Y 1:-Hh , 1969 l: 15 P.M. Room No. 117 3:00 P.l\1. Humanities Building Contest. \We're optimistic about our chances,\ he said. The ldol has good reason to be optimistic. The interview with John Dos Passos which was distributed in March was met by an enthusiastic response throughout the country. Extra copies have been ordered even by Dos Passos himself, who indicated that his publisher, H o u gh t o n · M i f fl in , was considering including the interview in a Dos Passos reader soon to be published. Copies also have been sent abroad to be reviewed. \I think we achieved a slickness, a professiorralism in the Dos Passos interview,\ Siegler said. He said that he was \particularly pleased with th.e response, especially since I initially had reservations about publishing it.\ Indications are that response to the latest Idol rna y be as gteat. Almost no copies are left from the original printing, and student reaction to the issue has been overwhelmingly favorable. Perhaps Prof. Arnold Bittleman summed up the response when he said thls issue was ''the greatest Idol ever.\ Which coming .from Prof. Bittleman is not just idle praise. If you have any questions you would like to ask me, please call me at 372-9772. Respectfully yours, Donald A. Kessler John Terry To Resign Receives Wellesley Post John Terry, Director of Union's Upward Bound Program, has resigned effective June 1, and will become Director of the MIT-Wellesley Upward Bound Program. Terry will be Director of the program for the summer and part-time Director during the winter while he works on his doctorate in Social Psychology at Boston College. He had resigned to work on his doctorate before accepting the MIT-Wellesley offer. Directing the MIT-Wellesley program Terry will have a staff of four fulltime and seven part-time employees whereas, he had two fulltime and two-part time employee at Union. Terry said he had no idea who would replace him and when asked about the future of Upwar<l Bound at Union he said it would have to be determied by the President. He added that he felt the Upward Bound program had \been a good program nationally and that the Union program can hold its reputation with the best of them.\ Scott Siegler, 1969 JAY BILLIARD LOUNGE 167 JAY ST. SPECIAL RATES FOR COLlEGE STU DENTS BLITHER Terry, who has been at Union for fottr and one half years was Director of Financial Aid-A:ssistant Director of Admissions before becoming Director of Upward Bound. He is also a lecturer in the Political Science Department. BringYour Dates Free Parking In Rear The Gamelan Band will perfm:m in front of the Library Wednesday from 1:30 PM on. Come and play or listen. Applications for the Social Committee of the. Student Senate are available in the Student Activities Office. They must be returned to that office by Tuesday, May 13. On Wednesday, May 7, Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Melville, a Catholic priest and nun who were married in 1968, will speak to the Newman Club and all other interested versons. The informal conversation will begin at 3:45 in Silliman Hall. There will be an oppmtunity to question the Melvilles about their understanding of relations between Vietnam, Revolution in Latin America, and the United States' mHitary-industrial complex. -------------------. THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeats from all over the world. 406 STATE ST. 4 For three Generations.' fhose Wllo Know ... Have been. recommending - HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER \3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'• 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SfRVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY ;_, •• . ... 'J .. •

Cl trJ 0 6 Ul ,_. I 0 ,_. ~ \\ :;;:l VI ,_. 1'-) \\' 1'-) <§!. VI -- ,.9 '? Cl\ 9 0 VI -- \\' '? :5 VI -- .j>. 00-h.. oo ~ '? '? 0 VI 0 trJ 0 6 ·I-' lj-) 0 .... ~ ~ ~ ~ \\' ·u. 0 <§!. 1'-) -- ~'? '· VI oo o•· ~ '? 0 .!::: tu'? . - oo oo b ? 0 N -- ... -- ,_. g; . (,.,~ ocp ~ ~ 0 Vl -- \\' ,_.o a.. a- Ocr> 9 '? 0 VI -- --~ Co\Oo 0~ i VI -- Cl\ !\\''? ~I: 0 6 I 0 VI --. Cl\ -o Oo~ oo <? tv 0 6 Vl -- w<? • tv coo o• 1'-) <? 1'-) '? .j>. 0 VI -- N !'->'? 1'-).j>. 0<? \\' '? '? 0 ·I.Jl -- ...... ,_.o ·09 99 - 9 ~ v. No o6 oc:,. '? 6 ~ w'? - ,_. oo 0~ '? 0 ~ 1'-)? . v. til? OVI <? <? 0 1'-) - ~'-)<? ...... oo oo ? 6 1'-) -- 1'-)9 • VI VIO oc:,. '? 0 6 1'-) -- tv'? • VI V.cp Ov, '? '? 0 .!::: t-,)'? .. ,... oo Ocp ~ 0 '· \· j ,. l !' il • I ,. ·• , \'CC :t> C) m . r;-.)1' ...a 0 ,.. MAY 6, 1969 :._; PAGI Faculty Forum ROTC - Why? With the demise of ROTC at Harvard, can its demise at Union be far behind? Probably not. Would its abolition be in our national interest? Probably not. My defense of ROTC is based not in any love of the military establishment; quite on the contrary, it is based on a fear of it. My argument runs as follows: (l) It is the officer corps which makes policy choices within the military establishment, choices of internal policy .and choices of policy recommendations to civilian organizations. (2) Sociological and political research amply demonstrate that organizations socialize new members. Any group has certain shared values and behavior expectations which it \teaches\ new members. First Of A Series By FREDERICK HARTWIG (3) The suseptibility of individuals to this socialization varies, and varies in predictable ways. (4} One Gfthe ways in which it varies is by the individual's background. ( 5) A good liberal arts education provides one kind of background which reduces suseptibility tG military socialization. ( 6) 0 fficers recruite·d through ROTC will be less likely than officers recruited through miHtary academics to be socialized. by the military organizations into thinking in narrowly military ways (Curtis LeMay notwithstanding). (7) Therefore, ROTC programs serve to reduce the danger to democratic institution& arising from the military establishment. What I am saying is that ROTC provides a recruitment pattern into the officer corps for individuals who are less likely to develop a narrow military perspective, that is, who are more likely to perceive a wider range of policy alternatives (including non-military alternatives), who are moPe likely to see the use of armed force as a means of foreign policy than as an end in itself, and who are, therefore, more responsive to civilian control. In short, ROTC adds leavening to the loaf. At least three conclusions follow. First, ROTC should not be abolished. Second, it is at the fine liberal arts institutions such as Harvard and Union that ROTC is most defensible. Third, the ROTC scholarships should be valued as a useful adjunct, recruiting into ROTC individuals with even less military inclination than those who join otherwise. To abolish ROTC idedlogical reasons - the coll should not be associated wit program \training soldiers wh ultimate aim is to kill\ - wo be psychologically satisfying l pragmatically unwise, or to current jargon, count productive. Saratoga Dance Gro:Uj Paul Sanasardo, w introduced Modern Dance to Performing Arts Center I January, is back in Saratoga a week of lectu -demonstrations for students~ teachers from the schoGls ~ colleges of l:lpstate New York. Appearing with ~ Sanasardo will be the en1 company of Modern Dm Artists, Inc. of New York Ci of which Sanasardo is foun1 and principal dancer. Perspectives And Philosophies Of Protest The troupe will perfo daily, at 10:30 a.m. and 1: p.m. at the Spa Theater, free charge as part of the Cent( Educational Program. By ALAN ZIEGLER This series will be a critical analysis of the white student Patterson On Vienna contribute to a lottery fund, and the winner would get a paid trip back to the campus fer Spring Weekend. I got few really enthusiastic responses. Though dissatisfaction is aimed largely at Vienna, and not the program itself, the structure of the program which leaves much free time has resulted in more boredom and dissatisfaction than trips to the local art galleries, museums, and other places of interest. Part of the problem is that Vienna is not exactly a \swinging\ city. It is a quiet, conservative, city which lives largely in its past glories. There is little, if any, real night life in Vienna, and in four days there I never saw a bar anywhere. One could live his whole life there and never know that one of the city's most famous natives was Sigmund Freud. There is no sign of him anywhere. All this dark talk about sex and mysterious complexes doesn't fit the character of the city or its people. So it is dangerous to come to Vienna to live, t.maware of this, and expecting little change from campus social life. Valuable Program Nevertheless, the ptogram is a valuable, imaginative one which should be continued. Future programs may need to involve a revised, more-selective screening of applicants for study in Vienna to assure maximum benefit to those students who. go. Willingness and ability to adapt may need to be · evaluated. Perhaps a more comprehensive p reorientation program (especially for those considering the program) might be helpful. A more radical, though less satisfactory solution might be to change the program to Munich in nearby Southern Germany. In any event, when evaluation of the first year's program begins, effort will be needed to try to bring about a closer harmony between the student and his environment so as to insure thos participating maximum benefit from a very valuable experience. Alan Ziegler, ex-features editor of Concordiensis, is a founding editor of The Paper Highway. This series about the radical student movements will continue for three more weeks, with installments being published on Tuesdays. revolt. I will attempt •to put the radicals activity into a very simplified general persepective and then, in future uticles, deal critically with these ideas and how they are practiced. S.D.S. usually receives most of the credit (or blame) for the various university crises, but altho11gh it is true that S.D.S. usually lights the match, it is years of intransigence and ignorance by administrators, and frustration and malaise by students that fills the keg With powder. And just as it would be a drastic mistake to perceive campus revolts as th.e work of a few \hard core\ organizers, it would be equally inaccurate to think that the oiJjects of the revolts are \delinquent\ universities, and ,that a few reforms would clear everything up. Students are not trying to put delinquent universities in line; they are fighting American capitalist society and the university's role in that society. Their victory will come when the very fabric (:)f American society is resewn, and not with a few university reforms. After years of eschewing ideology. radicals have coalesced their stand into an anti-capitalist position. Racism ll!ld .the war are direct outgrowths of the capitalist system, and radicals feel that reforms ue about as effective as scratclting off the spots to get rid o:f tile measles. There will be a picnic this Saturday, May 10, with students from Albany State, Sage, Hudson Valley, and other schools. Beer, food, and transportation are included in the $1.50 charge. For more information, contact AI Mangold (251 Fox, 372-9190) or Rafael Pearson (250 Fox, 393-9246). BOOKS Text- Tech -&Art Drafting Equip. Soc & Comm Stat. UNION BOOKCO . 237-241 STATE ST. 393-2141 With this in mind one can see why S.O.S. isn't too involved in student power per se. They just do not feel it is a crucial issue, partly because they don't trust most students to make the right decisions. One S.D.S. motto is \A free university in a free society.\ That the university is receiVmg the brunt of the anti-captialist movement is the result of a natural development. Radicals first tried to change people's feelings (The Civil Rights Movement), then they tried to change more tangible government policy (The Anti War Movement), and then, after those had boggled in pitiful frustration, they resorted to trying to clean up their immediate environment, the university. If they couldn't stop the war and racism, at least they could free themselves of even the remotest complicity. They could start their upheaval of society where they had the most immediate power. The University is a system out of equilibrium; the values of many students do not match the structure of the environment they live in. I will j11st briefly mention a few areas out of equilibrium. Examples are: \The Streets Belong to the People\ (in this case, \The university Belongs to the Students), vs. the fact that it is difficult for people below the middle class to get into college due to lack of fmances and inferior training. Thus, the demand for open admissions. The value of participatory democracy vs. the authoritarian way universities are governed. The value of support of the black community vs. the university's expansion into the community. The value of due process and trial by peers vs. often outmoded methods of discipline where the administration has the ultimate say. And perhaps the most important, the value of anti war vs. the presence of ROTC, military recruiting, and secret research on campus. Since mast American's are interested in the external, the superficial, and the flashy, it is not surprising that the most attention has been given to disruption, which has been S.O.S.'s major tactic. The use of disruption is a result of applying Marcuse's analysis to the university, an issue I will deal with in more detail in a future article. Marcuse feels that American soci·ety is rigged in a non-revolutionary, self regulating stance. Dissent, as long as it is not effective (is peaceful), is . tolerated and is even encolllaged because it gives people the illusion that they can dissent and exert an influence on the governme11t's policy. Thus, the liberal becomes the radical's enemy because he willingly (if unwittingly) serves this function in society. At 8:30 p.m. on Tuesday, May 13, Professor Hugh Allen Wilson will present a harpsichord recital in the Fox house lounge. The informal recital is sponscred by the Fox house R.A.'s and all Union students are invited. Sherry will be served. Acme Barber Shop 509 Union Street Experienced Barbers Nearest to Union College Stu dents LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian • American Food 1125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady Dl 0..9744 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Vis.it Our Cocktail Bar The radicals apply this to the university and point to attempts at change through traditional means (committees, petitions, pickets) which failed to receive results. The thing about issues today is that they are so immediate. While people talk, a gym is built. While peace talks go on, people die. The response of those in power is often to just stall for time, and this is often equivalent to a refusal. Things gain such momentum that it becomes increasingly difficult for one to do anything about them. While peaceful protests were taking place against the war, the government got so \committed\ that it eventually replied with, \Well maybe you're right, but we can't pull out now.\ POMEGRANATE Sanasardo 's initial Sarat< Master-class last January \ attended by approximately hundred novices anxious explore the world of mod1 dance. This weeks progra (May 5 - 9) are planned introduce a much lar audience, numbering over thousand, to Saratoga's n Theater of Modern Dance. Sanasardo recently assun the responsibility as Director the Center's newest school the Performing Arts, which ' offer a four-week course n· August in Modern Dance professional dancers interes· students, and physical educati instmctors. Registration for classes is n being accepted by the Educati Department of the Sarat< Performing Arts Center. UNION COLLEGE SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 TUESDAY, MAY 6 SHOWINGS AT 7:00 & 9:00P.M ADMISSION $1.00 AT DOOR

Concordy Sports • . . • ~AGE 4 MAY 6, 1969 Pearce Homer Tops Drew Rout Netmen Defeated Twicei · By BILL HOLLERAN . ' .... Host Panthers Tomorrow VOL98 • Bef0rc a good Parent's We e kend crowd Sat uday afternoon on Alexander· Field, the Garnet base bailers coasted to an easy 13-4 victory over the Drew Rangers. It was the fifth straight triumph for the Datclunen, and the third straight victory for ace right\hander Bill Neidel. cleared the tree-shrouded fence, and first time since a Hamilton ball-player did the trick over twenty years ago. BesiG!es these two players, the only other hitters to clear the fence were a couple of Boston Braves, who did it in an exhibition game played on Alexander Field during the 'Thirties. The Dutchmen, however, did not stop there, adding three more tallies in the fourth on Pearce's homer, two walks, some nifty-baserunning, and several Ranger errors. Two more runs c~ossed the plate in the sixth inning, a stanza that was highlighted by some heads•up basetunning · on the part of MacKenzie, who scored from first on a steal attempt after the Drew xatcher threw the ball into center field. The Garnet topped off their scoring in the last of the seventh, scoring twice on one hit, a walk, and a Drew error. This past weekend proved frustrating for the Garnet tennis team as they were soundly defeated by both Hamilton'(8-1) and Rochester (9-0). 11hese teams were predicted to be tough, but the lop-sided victory was unanticipated by Coach Robert Benson. The Garnet netmen are now 2-3 on the year. At Hamilton, the netmen displayed fine form, but .the competition was tough, and in almost every case the netmen dropped close decisiom.s. F0urth singles man Ron Wendolowski By BRUCE GARBER brought home the only Union tally in three grueling sets. Third .singles man Len Duckworth played the longest match of the afternoon, but despite a great effort was defeated in three sets. Jeff Kurzius, after splitting the first two sets, was decisively overpowered, 6-0, in the last. Saturday morning the Bensonmen traveled on to Rochester to face their toughest foe of the season. Kurzius forfeited at first singles because of shin-splints. The Garnet were only able to captttre three sets in the 9~0 defeat. One of these was t secured by Wendolowski, who came closest to winning by carrying his mat·ch to a full three sets. AI Meisel was the only • other Union man to do the same, by taking one set in each of his singles and doubles 1 matches. Uni·on hosts Middlebury tomorrow, and the team is keyed f0r a victory, which t would raise them to the .500 mark, Psychologically it is a crucial match, with the I.C.A.C.'s coming up on f Saturday at R.P.I. Neidel, although he wasn't quite as sharp as he had been in previous outings, pitched well enough in his seven innings of work to get the win, allowing two runs (one of them earned) un six hits, fanning four batters, and walking three. Kevin Coyne, a sophomore left-hander, finished up for Neidel, and in his first vegular-season assignment gave up the final two Ranger tallies on four hits. Eleven Hits Drew made some threatening gestures in the top of the fust, when they put tugcther two base-hits, a walk, and a Garnet miscure to push across the game's first run and end Neidel's scoreless streak at seventeen and one-third innings. The Ranger tally also halted the lanky ri gh t\hander's three-game shutout skein. In Lead For Good The Garnet, however, fought back in the last half of the same inning to take a 2-1 lead, when Mike Solomon and Pearce walked and scored on Miller's base-hit up the middle. The Dutchmen added another marker in the second inning to up their lead to 3-l. Drew went dovm swinging in their last at-bat, getting to Coyne in the top of the ninth for two big runs on four base-hits, to make the final score 13-4. RuggersFall To Med~ 8-6· \The Garnet hitters had a field day against the weak Drew pitching. pounding out eleven hits. Dale Long, Tom Miller, and Brian Gidlow led the way for the batsme11, each cracking two base-hits. Jim Wilson also had a good afternoon, driving in two rum, while Bob MacKenzie and Mike McGee each scored three times. Ken Pearce, however, provided the afternoon's fireworks in the last of the fourth, when he muscled into a fastball and clouted his first homer of the season, a towering, tape-measure blast that cleared everything in left, including the eight-foot high fence over 400 feet away from the plate. It was the first time in Union base ball history that a Garnet batter Union turned the game into a rout in the third, scoring thre0 more runs. McGee led off the inning with a walk, and went over to third on Miller's single down the left-field line. Wilson then lashed a line-drive single to left, scoring McGee and Miller, and Niedel made it 6-1 later in the inning when he tapped a soft, broken-bat single to left-center wh.i;·h scored Bob McKenzie, who had reached base after being hit by the Ranger pitcher. Frustrated Pitcher Probably the most frustrated player on the field after the game was Ranger pitcher Bruce Antoniatti, who- hurled the first three innings and was touched up for eight runs and seven hits. Antoniatti added five walks, two hit-batsmen, and three wild pitches, but that wasn't all. After he was yanked in the fourth inning, he played first base, where he made three errors before the game was over. The Dutchmen do not see action until the weekend, when they host Oarkson and the to ugh Larries from St. Lawrence. A much Unproved Union College Rugby Club dropped a well-fought match Saturday against a strong Albany Medical School squad, 8-6. A large crowd at Baley Field witnessed one of the best exhibitions of Rugby football ever played on Union's campus. There were two games played Saturday, as the \B\ team also saw action. This was only the second time that the Union ''B\s got a chance to display their ability on the field (their first match was at an away game \ BASEBALL. STAT·S 0 . Slg. Btg. Player G AB R H 2B 3B HR TB SB RBI Pet. J.>et. MarchantRolls1525 Qualifies For N ats Bill Neidel·P Ken Pearce• 2B Jim Wilson-OF Dale Lone-SS Brien Gidlow-C M.J. Solomon-OF ·ram Miller-3B Mike McGee-! B Boh Mackenzie-OF 4 111 5 15 2 5 12 3 5 20 5 5 13- 5 16 1 5 16 2 5 17 4 5 15 4 4 - - 6 2 - 4 - 1 5 1 - 3 - - 3 - - 3 - - 3 - - 2 - 4 - 2 .364.364 1 11 2 3 .733.333 - 6 1 4 .500 .. 333 - 6 3 1 .300.250 - 3 - 3 .231.231 - 3 1 3 .188.188 - 3 - 3 .188.188 - 3 3 1 .176 .176 2 2 1 .133.133. - - - Lany Berkeley-? 1 3 1 1 - - - 1 - - .333.333 M.H. Solomon-OF 3 1 1 - - - - - 1 - .000.000 By GARY PREVOST Steve Odre-OF 2 - - - - - - - 1 1 .000.000 Joe Douglas-P l 2 1 - - - - - - - .000.000 Senior Dick Marchant, with the strongest tournament performance by a Union College Bowling Club performer in the last five years, has rolled into seventl'l place in the qualifying round of the National Collegiate Match Games at Bowl-Mor Recreation in Tom Lesniak-C 1 1 - - - - - - - - .000.000 Kevin Coyne-P 1 - - - - - - - - - . 000.000 Player G IP Won Lost BB SO Hits Runs ER New York City. Marchant, rolling an eight-game total of 1525, is almost assured of a spot in the 16-man national semi-finals, to be held at Bowl-Mor Saturday night. The semi-finals consist of another eight-game block, with the top eight scoreres advancing to the 16-game head-to-head fmals the following afternoon. The Eastern regional champion will travel to Chicago on June 1 to meet the Western champion in the nationally televised finals. Mmchant started slowly in his first four-game block on Saturday, hitting only 686, but he came on &trong with an 839 block on games of 253, 201, 164, and 221 to gain seventh place in the field of 225 Bill Neider 4 Larry Berkeley 1 Joe Dovglas 1 Kevin Coyne 1 Union Total 5 Opp. Total 5 Record: Won 5, Lost 0 24 1/3 3 0 9 1 0 5 2/3 1 0 2 0 0 41 5 0 38 0 5 5 21 12 2 1 3 3 3 0 0 0 5 7 2 2 1 0 4 2 2 8 30 26 5 5 18 38 33 25 19 ZELLMER~S NORGE bowlers representing over sixty colleges. ' Seven other Garnet bowlers competed in the t0urney, and A1 Case with a 1461 had the second-best effort. Case opened with a 790 LAuNDRy AND cLEAN 1 N G v r L LAG E block, but was unable to maintain that pace in his final four games. Hovey Leads League AT 1559 VAN VRANKEN AVE. {at Hottie Street) In local bowling action last week, Don Hovey maintained a DRY Cll:ANING WASHERS three-point lead in the Dutch Classic Singles League despite losing a Lbs. _______ . ___ $2.00 1 2 Lb. __________ -- two points, but Case highlighted the action with a season-high 675 4 lb. Min. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 1.00 20 Lb. ___________ _ triple. DRYERS 30 lb. _______ ----- Hovey's record dropped to 10-2 as Mark Zubres hit a 21 0, 230, 1 0 .Min. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ . 1 0 205-645 against the league leader. Case upped his record to S-7, OPEN- MON. TO FRI. 8:00A.M. TO 9:00 P.M. winrling two points from Gary Prevost. The latter dropped into third SATURDAY 8:00 A.M. TO 5 P.M. (CLOSED SUNDAYS) P lace, despite a 197 average. Case rolled games of 2]3, 233, and 229, IF YOU HA\IE NEVER HAD NORGE DRY CLEANING DONE WE CAN BET YOU WILL BE AMAZED ERA 0.37 0.00 3.16 9.00 1.10 4.50 .25 .35 .50 ?~: ~!~ ~:::~ted in the middle game when Prevost hit 235 en route ~=================:::::::::;;·~;::;:::;.:~ LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian • American Food 1125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady Dl 0-9744 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktoil Bor Boulevard Bowl 135 ERIE BOULEVARD 40 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES By L. MARK SWEENEY against Cornell, where the Garnet lost, 9•3). The first thirty-minute half was scoreless, as each team held the other from crossing within twenty yards of their respective goal lines. Several times during the second period, the Garnet ruggers got within yards of scoring a \try\ but a tough Med defense halted all such attempts. On the whole, the \B\ team looked well organized Saturday with fme running by Ken LaBarge '69 and Mark Thibaudat. The contest ended with the Albany Med \B\ team defeating Union's second team 3~ pm a penalty kick. A's Stymied The Union \A\s then took the field and received the kick-off from Albany. Throughout the match, the Schenectady ruggers carried the ball well but, again, a fine Med defense prevented a \try.\ With 10 minutes to go in the first half, the Albany 15 carried in for three points, and added a successful two-point conversion. After a tew more plays, the Garnet scored on a penalty kick by Rollin Wickendon, making the score 5-3 at half-time. For the remaining thirty minutes the home team held Med from scoring a \try even though Albany brought the score up to 8-3 on a penalty kick from the 15 yard line. With fine running by juniors Craig .Morris, Mark Sweeney, Jeff Flood, and sophomore Hank Wessmann, the Union \A\s again moved the pigskin down within scoring range. A foul committed by the I visitors allowed Wickendon to try his kicking foot again, this time from the thirty yard line. The penalty kick was good, thus 1 bringing the score to 8-6. The Union club then held off any further attacks by the Med boys, 1 .and by primarily playing a defensive game, was not able to score either. Since Rugby is a game that -t requires a large amount of contact with no equipment allowed, the Union squad has suffered significant injuries, f particularly to the \A\ team. Prior to the Parents' Weekend match, the club had lost four 1 starters due to injuries sustained either in practice or games. These were seniors Oiff Feldman, John Strickland, I junior Joe Clark, and sophomore Kurt Jackstadt. All four played key positions . in the serum, 1 where both height and strength are essential. . In Saturday's contest, Union lost Greg Leopold to a knee injury and f sophomore Bob Forbes, who suffered a ruptured spleen and underwent surgery after the 1 game . This weekend is an open one for the Rugby Club. Action resumes on May 17 when the 1 ruggers host an experienced, Euro p can-dominated Schenectady Rugby Club on Daley Field at 12:00 no~on, thus I ending the Garnet's ;;:J;'iirst real Rugby season. ACCUTRON CALENDAR \B\ 14K gold. Waterproof•. Gilt applied figures on gilt or silver radial brush dial. Lu- minous dots and hands. $200.00 ::···. \ Andrea1 ·~ 8 p.m . .Cor Pa~ Dr. A Greek \, Coordinat premier ~ Convocati ( Memorial Schedu Papandrec postpone ·~- ·The C Problem f Dr. Pa1 those Gre regime in early retu1 Dr. Pa] Greek f appointe~ Coordinat the Cents 1965. He April 21, 24, 1967. He was intervenin States o .~,. American American Professors individual: Dr. Ge Nobel Pri; ~Higgins Harvard, Fellow, announce< That's the most an Accutron® timepiece will gain or lose in one month. And we'll guarantee it.t Accutron looks like a watch. But it isn't. It doesn't have a mainspring, a hairspring, or a balance wheel. Accutron has replaced them with an electronic-powered tuning fork. It splits each second into 360 equal parts. /\nd makes the Accutron timepiece so precise, it won't gain or lose an average of more than two seconds a day~ , ' Prof. \ important of stude1 leading a f which is ~ he wrote 42a STATE STREET that he b I '· unrest is national p The D estab lis he< ' coHege b: , Schaffer. · Dr. Cart( ' Union Co' -bringing 1

s • MAY 6.,' 1969 PUBI..I$HI;D ~y CONCORI;>IENSIS ··-, Jhe Union College Course EvaluatiOn Questions #1-11 QUESTIONS By DICK DANIEL a11d BOB SALTZMAN Printed on these pages is the third part of the winter term course evaluation report. Center II courses appear today while past supplements have contained those for Center I. This report is a straight statistical analysis of the data collected from Union students cmring registration .. As one will notice from the data, the response varied widely between courses. Therefore, there is no good measure of an overall response. Because of the generally low response, no attempt will be made by the evaluation editors to interpret the data such as the publication Linebacker has done in the past. The student or faculty member should make his own determinations from the dat:L Covrses with seventy per cent response out of an enrollment of twenty or better will probably yield some very meaningful information. Courses with response between fifty and seventy-five per cent should be analyzed very carefully. Anything below fifty per cent should generally be considered meaningless. The only possible exception might be courses with extremely high enrollment. When the course evaluation was started, a chief use of it was thought to be as a guide for students planning a curriculum. A student . should be warned against dismissin~ a course or pro(essor if fifty per cent of twenty students enrolled considered either a disaster. All courses are identified by their numerical code. Reading across we find the name of the profe~sor who taught the course (in,., fact, this information may have been changed without our knowledge) and that it was a , recitation section (R-resitation, X-lecture, P·project, l--ll}b, S-seminar). The next two numbers tell one how many of the enrolled students reported, and the percentage of response. Twenty-four columns of numbers follow; one for each question. The actual questions are printed at the top of the page. Questions No. 1-11 appear on this page, questions No. 12-24, and the respon$es, appear on the back page. One will notice the numbers take the fomi X/A-B..C·D·E y z X is the total number of students , answering a given question with a COURSE INSTRUCTOR RRT/ENROLL QUES. 1 45/16-20-38-20-7 QUES. 2 QUES. 3 2.82 1.12 BI0-01'2:-01 Butzel R 45 71 63% 43/ 20-47-22-4-2 2.19 0.90 43/ 27-47-13-4-4 2.09 1.01 ,. ' valid response (1-5). A through E are tlw perc.entages r~spopding to <t11swers 1-5 respectively. (If there were people who didn't answer the question or answered more than one choice, the percentages may not aQd to 100, since the percentages are based on the total number of responses for the course). The number Y is the arithmetic mean of tlw numberi~al respome. Z is the standard deviation. The standard ~eviation is a measure of how varied the responses were above llnd below the mean. A st~dard deviation of ~ero would incllcate th~t all students responc;led with the same number. A high SU standard deviation indicates a widely scattered response. This QUES. 4 QUES, 5 43/89.()-7-0-0 33/ 4-U-31-7-20 3.36 1.20 1.14 0.51 1. Your present cummulative index is: ( l) .3 .30 9r higher (2) 2.70 to 3.29 (3) 230 to 2.69 (4) 1.70 to 2.29 (5) below 1.70 2. Your grade for the course was: (1) A,(2) B,(3) C,(4) D,(S) F 3. Considering the amount of work that y,ou did, your interest in the course, and your comprehension of the material presented, what grade do you think you fairly -· deserved? (.1) A, (4) B, (3) C, (4) p, (5) F 4. HQw open. was the instructor to- new ideas, analysis differing from his own, and/or interpretations differing from his own? (I) Very open to student interpretation (2) Open, but generally leary of student viewJ')oints. (3) Sometimes open, sometimes not. (4) Willing to accept only views which coincide with his. (5) Closed and not receptive. 5. The instructot's presentation of the course material was basically ... QUES. 6 43/ 29-36·13-16-2 2.23 1.12 QUES. 7 44/ n-29-20-20-2 2.41 us QUES. 8 · 45/13-31-20-18-18 2.96 1.32 BI0-014-01- Roth R 16 25 64% 16/13~25-25-38-0 16/ 25-69-6-0-0 15/ 6-50-31-6-0 ' 16/ 81-13..0..().6 15/ 56-38-0-0-0 16/ 94-0-6-0.0 1.13 0.49 16/ 75-19..0-6-0 1.38 0.78 16/75-zs.o.o-o 1.25 0.44 BlQoQ4Q-Ql But?el BI0-049.01 Lambert BI0-054-01 Rappaport CHM-010-01 Reed CHM-010-02 Schaefer CHM-012-01 Maycock CHM-012-02 J. Daniels CHM-012-03 Reed CHM-030-01 Sowa CHM-031-01 W. Martin CiiM-031·02 MayCocll: CHM-034-01 Schaefer CHM-036-01 Festa Cl{M-048-01 Weick C»M-010-01 Reed CHM-012·01 Reed ffil (I') ... (1:1 ~ <t ~ I> .. •:1} ~ ..... == ~ e: Q.} C'IJ I... ... ... R 10 17 59% R 5 8 63% R 29 61 48% R 16 '}.7 59% R 14 25 56% R 16 26 62% R 15 25 60% R 16 24 67% R 14 19 74% R 18 39 46% R 23 39 59% R 8 17 47% R 15 31 48% R 5 10 50% X 29 52 56% X 43 75 57% - • -~ 2.88 1.05 10/ 2Q-4MMO-Q 2.j0 0.90 5/ 0-40-20-40-0 3.00 29/ 24-34-31-10-0 2.28 0.94 16/ 25-0-56-19-0 2.69 1.04 14/21-21-21-21-14 2.86 1.36 16/6-25-31-3&-0 3.00 0.94 15/20-20-40-7-7-27 2.80 1.51. 16/19-6-44-31-0 2.88 1.05 14/ 21-29-14-14-21 2.86 1.46 18/17-50-22-11-0 2.28 0.87 23/17·3H 7-30-0 2.61 1.09 8/ 25-50-13-13-0 2.13 0.93 15/33-47-13-7-0 1.93 0.85 5/ 40.0-20-40-0 2.60 29/28-10-38-17-7 . 2.66 1.24 42/14·23·28-26·7 2.88 1.16 • -~ ,.. - ~ - ~ ~ _.., S~ci~S~E?§~~8Ea~g~d ~-o• ~~~oaa=~~g~~~ >~-=~~~00 0-~~~ . = ~ <l.l :::: ~ o :::s ;::: ~ .... o <:<:1 ·c :::s .::: . .... ~ =~ooo=~~~<l.l =<l.l~~~=too ~'+< \\\'ell-..-. ·>.O. . .::;~-. <l.l . ..., !:::; . w\' o.. .. .;::; E -· .,.... ~ ~go~<l.l~~-;:!~~op~~~~ ·u- ~~ ~~~~ ~~s~<l.l~ ~ o B ;:s Q (]) ...., .;;;; ~ '+\< .~ ~ ~ ~ ~ :::s • ~~~~~~~~0~8~~0 ~ rs~e _.._,:::~J!2°ca , ......... oQSJ <LJO~~e~~~~~~;:s~\'o ..... ~~ . . ...... '\' • . tU 0 \' c. ~ \' (]) ~ 0 ..c: ., 2.40 0.71 9/ 20..60-10-0-0 l.R9 0.57 5/60-40-0-0-0 1.40 29/ 17-38-45-0-0 2.:28 0.74 15/ 0-50-44-0-0 2.47 0.54 14/29-21-43-7-0 2.29 0.95 14/ 6-38-25-19-0 2.64 0.89 14/13-33-20-13-13 2.79 1.26 16/ 6-19-56-19·0 2.88 0.78 14/21-29-36-7-7 2.50 1.12 17/11-33-39-11-0 2.53 0.85 23/17-ZN2•9-0 2.52 0.88 8/ 0-75-25-0-0 2.25 0.44 14/7-27-60-0-0 2.57 0.62 4/ 40-0.40·0·0 2.00 28/ 14-34-38-10-0 2.46 0.87 39/9·28-35-16·2 2.72 0.96 ,) .. 1.81 0.53 9/ 40-50-0-0..0 1.56 0.49 5/ 60-40-0-0-0 1.40 29/28-62-10-0-0 1.83 0.59 16/ 13-63-25-0-0 2.13 0.60 14/ 21-43-36-0-0 2.14 0.74 15/ 0-44-44-6-0 2.60 0.61 15/ 13-40-20-20.7 2.67 1.14 16/ 19-44-31-6-0 2.25 0.83 14/ 21-36-29-7-7 2.43 1.11 17/22-33-28-11-0 2.29 0.95 23/ Zfi~'Js-39-Q-0 Z,l3 0,60 8/ 38~50-13-0-0 1.75 0.66 14/20·47-27-0·0 2.07 0.70 4/ 40·0·40·0-0 2.00 29/ 17,48-28-3-3 2.28 0.91 42/947·33-7·2 :2.45 0.85 - :-' ~ --;.. o,i. ' _;,. ,_; lD.; o S =~;:::: ~ ~ e ~ t::= = ';_..t:::. ~ s Sl tl ~ ~ -~ [;;1 ,.c 0 - ~ = ~ = • <:<:1 = .... Ci) .... \\' = @ P-o b0,.5 [i.! E-< •• s t; ~ ~ <'l u.. 0.: 0 0 8.. § :3 8....;.,§§§ .s;~f:l>.~:;gc2]~ ~ ~~~~o::·3~~ gi'J;, .u.z ~ .... a .=ell~ ::r:-o:::E~(]) - ,:Q \' u .g \<:I 0 -~ ;::! = <.) = <l.l\--o'-'r:x:l ;::::.....,~..s=:= ..<;! \' .-< ...... ~ <'l <:<:1 ...,. - 0.. ~ o ~ ~~ ~ a o ~ ~ , .. Q() = ·~ ~ Q 1.38 0.99 1.40 0.49 10/ 10-60-10-20-0 9/ 40-30.10.10·0 2.40 0.92 1.89 0.99 5/ 40-20-40-Q..O 2.00 28/ 59-24-3-7-3 1.68 1.07 13/19-31·19-6-6 2.38 1.14 13/57-14-14-0-7 1.77 1.19 14/63-25-0-0-0 1.29 0.45 5/ ZO.fiQ-20.,0..0 2.00 29/90-7-3-Q-0 1.14 0.44 16/SG-19-6·19-6 2.13 1.36 14/ 7-36-29-21-7 2.86 1.06 15/ 13-13-13-31-25 3.47 1.36 14/ 20-33-13-13-13 15/ Q-27-13-33-27 . 2.64 1.34 3.60 1.14 16/38-19-25-19-Q 16/ 31-31-13-19-6 2.25 1.14 2.38 1.27 14/ 86-14-0-0-0 14/36-57-7-0-0 1.14 0.35 1.71 0.58 17/ 67-22-0-0-6 18/ 89-11-0-0-0 1.47 0.97 1.11 0.32 19/ 74-9-<H)-0 23/ 78-17-044 1.11 Q,;}Q 1.35 0.87 8/75-25-0-0-0 8/38-38-25-0-0 1.25 0.44 1.88 0.78 13/ 20·27·2Q-20.0 15/6Q-40-0..Q-O 2.46 1.08 1.40 0.49 4140-0-20-20-0 2.25 5/lO<ho-o-o-o 1.00 26/ 21-31·17-10-10 29/76-17-0.0-7 2.54 1.28 1.45 1.03 34/ 28-21-19-7-5 42/77-14-2-Q-5 2.24 1.19 1.38 0.92 • ., 91 10/70·20·0·10..0 1.50 0.92 S/ 20-80-Q-Q-0 1.60 29/ 93-7-0-0-0 1.07 0.24 16/69-~5-Q-Q-6 1.50 1.00 14/ 50-43-0-7-0 1.64 0.81 14/ 63-19-6-Q-0 1.36 0.61 15/ 40-20-20-0-20 2.40 1,50 16/ 88-6-6-0-0 1.19 0.53 14/ 93-7..().0-0 1.07 0.24 18/ 83-17-0-0-0 1.17 0.37 22/ 83-13-0-0-0 1.14 0.35 8/ 88-13-0-0-Q 1.13 0.33 15/ 13·87-o-o-o 1.87 0.35 S/ 40-~o-~o-zo-o 2.20 29/62·21-10·3-3 1.66 1.03 43/ ()5-26· 7-0-2 1.49 0.82 .,; ~ \' \' = u >. -~ .~ E-< ~ ..... ;-> 0 .... E'l~~g ~ ~ ~ d ~· M P-o ~ ~ ~ ~ g:<'<lo~..I:;~~~<'l~'\\ :> ~ ::::~ '\' .... .;:;j ~ ..... E > Cll ..._, ~ en ~ \'\' ~ ...... ...... A\\ 0 = ..... !:::: ;::l <:<:1 ~ .....: .0 ~ cd 0 ~ ~ = u ~ ~ .Q ~ £ 't ~ ..s:: <~ .... ~ 0 s..., ......._ 9 ~ ~ 'O;j <:<:1 <:<:1 ;<;:{-....,oo~>-<~-£J]Z~ .... <:<:1 • .... ..... ~ > .... ..... . ..c ~ 00 Ql) ;.>\ a. ~ ..... \' ~ u - -~ 'a) co :.::1 ~ ~ • \\~ -~ 0 .... 0 ~ 0 ..... .....- .... ~~;;;5>-~e=:@ ~ ~'<0~~\\ ,..::.::,.,~ .... \\ ..... ~::;; ~ -~;::l E o ~ \' 'Q ..::; ;:: .... ~ 9/30·20·10·20·10 z.~G 1.4~ S/ 0-40-40-20-0 2.SO 29/ 48-45-0-7-0 1.66 0.80 16/ 44-44-1 ~-0 1.69 0.69 13/ 29-43-14-7-0 2.00 0.88 14/ 31-31-25-()..0 1.93 0.79 15/13-20-40-7-20 3.00 1.26 16/ 25-44-25-6-0 2.13 0.86 14/21·57-14-0,.7 2.14 0.99 18/39-39-17-Q-6 1.94 1.02 21/ 48-35-4-4-0 L62 0.7S 8/ 88-13-0-0-0 1.13 0.33 15/47-47-7-Q-0 l.60 0.61 5/ 20.fi0-Q-20-0 2.20 21 I 34-45-14-0.0 1.78 0.69 41/ 33-47-12-2-2 1.90 0.88 .; .. .,;~ ~:a -s [i.! ~ ..... E ~= 0 0 \\~ ..... 0\ \0 0\ ~ 0. = .9 - ..... ~ \\ .... 0 .,; ;::l 't:l ~ ~ 'P..\;d 0 :;, g .£ ~ ~ e \\ ~ ~ - ~ ~ ~ ,.... e ..: ~ ~ ti.i :::; 0 0 UJ Iii 9/ JQ-JO·l0-40•0 ~.7~ l,H 5/ 20-60-20-0-0 2.00 28/62-24-10..0-0 1.46 0.68 16/ 38-38-13-0-13 z.n 1.21 14/ 21-50-14-14-0 2.21 0.94 16/ 50-25-13·13-0 1.88 1.05 14/ 7-33-13-20-20 3.14 1.30 16/.56-38-0-6-0 l.Sp 0.79 14/ 57-36-0;7-0 1.57 0.82 18/ 22-39-22-11-6 2.39 1.11 '23/ 61·24-4-4-9 1.78 1.25 8/ 88-D-13-0-0 1.25 0.66 15/ 27·33-20.20-0 .. l 2.33 1.08 \· ('!'i ·:r \iS/ 40-20-0-20-20 2.60 28/34-38-10-7-7 2.11 1.17 41/53-28-7-5-2 1.68 0.97 # Q a: C-111.-: \' \' z loLl 0 :::) t; -~\' ..lz>- _. <C -:::»-, m.- ... ;s~w ... oe <..,_!!I Winter, 1969 (I) lecture. (2) lecture with some discussion. (3) equal lecture and discussion. (4) discussion with some lecture. (5) discussion. For the following statements, please indicate your response by the numbers: ( 1) Strong agreement. (2) Agreement. (3) No opinion. (4) Disagreement. (5) Strong disagreement. 6. The instructor was greatly interested in the material being taught. 7. The instructor clearly defined the objectives of the course. 8. The instructor's presentation, of the material greatly aided the understanding of the course material. 9. Daily preparation for class is necessary for the understan<l.ing of class lecture and discussion. 10. The instructor stimulated the student to thjnk about material beyond the course requirements. 11. The instructor was organized in his presentation of the course m~teri&l. \ QUES. 9 QUES 10 45/11-11-16-36-27 43/ 4-17-7-29-29 3.56 1.29 3.53 1.30 16/13·31-31-25{) 16/5().19·25·6·0 2.(i9 0.98 1.88 0.99 l0/40-5Q-10-~0-o 10/ 5D-3D-1D-1D-O 2.30 1.00 1.80 0.98 5/ 0-60-40·0-0 2.40 5/ 0-40-20-40-0 3.00 29/ 10-14-14-45-17 29/ 21-38-14-24-3 3.45 1.22 2.52 1.16 16/ 50-44-0-6-0 1.63 0.78 13/ 36-29-14-7-7 2.15 1.23 15/ 38-44-0-6-6 1.93 1.12 lit/ 40-20-13-0-20 2.36 1.54 16/19·56-6-19-0 2.25 0.97 13/ 21-57-14-0-0 1.92 0.62 18/ 61-33-0-6-0 1.50 0.76 23/43-35-4-13-4 2.00 1.18 8/25·25-25-25-0 2.50 1.12 14/ 27-20·20·20-7 2.57 1.29 Sf 0-0-20-40-40 4.20 29/ 41-34-10-7-7 2.03 1.19 43/ 26-44-14-12-5 2.26 1.10 *' rl 16/ 6-13-38-25-19 3.38 1.11 13/ 7-21-50-7-7 2.85 0.95 15/ 19-25-38·13-0 2.47 0.95 14/ 7-0-4(}13-33 3.71 1.16 16/ 19-31-19-25-6 2.69 1.21 14/21-50-7-14-7 2.36 1.17 18/ 17-22-17-22-22 3.11 1.41 22/9-35-30.9-13 2.82 1.15 8/13-50-38-Q-0 2.25 0.66 15/ 0-13-33-40-13 3.53 0.88 5/ 0-40-0-40-20 3.40 28/ 7·17-38-17-17 3.21 1.14 42/ 9-23-35-21-9 2.98 1.10 • J QUES 11 45/ 18-42-11-22-7 2.58 1.20 16/ 56·25·0-19-0 1.81 1.13 9( 4Q-2Q-2Q-1D-0 2.00 l.OS 5/ 60-40-0-0-0 1.40 29/ 41-59-9-9-9 1.59 0.49 16/ 69-19-9-6-6 • 1.63 1.17 13/21-29-7-36-0 2.62 1.21 15/ 31-44-6•13-0 2,00 0.96 14/ 0-40-20-13-20 3.14 1.19 16/ 56-38-0-0-6 1.63 0.99 14/ 64-29-7-0-0 1.43 0.62 18/ 28-33-17·17-6 2.39 1.21 23/ 78-13-0.4-4 1.43 1.01 8/50.38·13-0-0 1.63 0.70 15/13-67-0-2Q-O 2.27 0.93 5/ 40-20-0-40-0 2.40 26/ 55-24-3-3-3 1.62 1.00 38/ 51-33-0-0-5 1.58 0.94 .; I .. c 1/) at : ~ ~= ...:~E <CU a:l.i. >- ~ ..J Ll.l Gi~ 0 c c- - en ::l c 0 ·- >-~ .... ~ ... CQ ~ Uol -.. 0 ()

~ ~· ·~ :?'< _.,.. \}- MAY 6, 1969 CE-043-01 Harlow R 8 26 31% EE-008-01 Goodheart s 6 12 50% EE-031-01 C. Allen R 15 21 71% EE-032-01 Hoffman R 12 19 63% EE-032~02 Morrison R 10 19 53% EE-041-01 Jngvarsson R 9 16 56% EE-044lH C. Allen R 11 19 58% ME-043-01 Shanel;>rook R 8 20 40% lAB SECTION·S QUI$TION- #11-10 1. Time sp~nt in lab was (1) very valuable (2) vall).able (3) no opinion ( 4) of little value (5) of no value COURSE ·~ INSTRUCTOR BI0-012-01 Urban BJ0-012-02 B. Rappaport BI0-012-03 Miroff BI0-012-04 Miller BI0-012-05 Briber BI0-0'14-01 Styles BI0-014-02 Orris BI0-049-01 Lambert BI0\054-02 Rappaport BI0-054-03 Lamberson CHM-OlD-01 Festa CHM-010-02 Maycock CHM-010-03 W. Martin CHM-012-01 - Maycock CHM-012-02 Sowa ~ <\b -~ '.-!>· :~ .. PAGE l-14 8/ 38-13-38-13-0 . 2.25 1.09 8/ 50-25-25-0-0 1.75 0.83 8/63-25-13-0-0 1.50 0.71 7/13-50-13-0-13 8/ 38-63-0-0-0 2.43 1.17 1.63 0.49 5/17-17-0-33-17 3.20 1.47 1/ 1 7 -0•0-0-0 1.00 0.00 3/ 50-0-0-0-0 3/17-0-17-0-17 1.00 0.00 3.00 1.63 2/ 3 3-0-0-0-0 1.00 0.00 15/ Oc7-3J47-13 3.67 0.79 15/7-33-40.13-7 2.80 0.98 13/27-13-27-7-13 IS/ so-2o-o-o-o 2.62 1.39 1.20 0.40 15/13-33-53·0·0 2.40 0.71 . 12/ 0-42-17-33-8 3.08 1.04 12/8-58-11-17-0 2.42 0.87 12/8-75-17-0-0 2.08 0.50 12/ 83-0·17·0-D 11/ 83-8-0-0-0 1.33 0.75 1.09 0.28 10/ 0-10-50-30-10 3.40 0.80 7/10-50-10-0-0 9/ 80-10-0-0-0 2.00 0.54 1.11 0.32 10/ 0-40·50-10-0 2.70 0.64 10/ 0·30-60-10-0 2.80 0.60 9 I o-44-11-44-0 3.00 0.94 9/56-22-22-0-0. 9/ 56-44-0-0-0 1.67 0.82 1.44 0.49 8/ 0-67-22-0-0 2.25 0.44 8/ 0-44-44-0-0 2.50 0.50 11/ 0-64-18-18-0 2.55 0.78 10/9-27-27-0-27 11/91-9-0-0-0 3.10 1.37 1.09 0.28 11/ 0-9-64-27-0 3.18 0.57 11/ 0-55-36-0-9 2.64 0.88 8/ 0-38-13-50-0 3.13 0.93 8/ 25.50-25-0-0 2.00 0.71 8/63-13-25-0-0 1.63 0.86 8/38-0-50-13-0 2.38 1.11 8/75-25-D-0-0 1.25 0.44 2. How well did the lab integrate with the course? (1) very well 4. Preparation required for lab was ... (1) none (2) minimal (2) fairly well (3) Lab was not designed to integrate with course (4) Doesn't integrate well · (3) nominal (4) a lot 8/ 25-7 5-0-0-0 1.75 0.44 3/17-33-0-0-0 1.67 0.47 14/ 13-20-40-7-13 2.86 1.19 12/ 1 oo-o-o-o-o 1.00 0.00 10/ 20-60-20-0-0 2.00 0.63 9/ 33-56•11-0-0 1.78 0.63 11/ 55-36-0-0-9 1. 73 1.14 8/ 88-13-Q-0-0 1.13 0.33 7/ 38-50-0-0-0 1.57 0.49 3/33-0-0-0-17 2.33 1.89 15/ 33-20-7-20-20 2.73 1.57 121 83-17-o-o-o 1.17 0.37 10/20-70-10-0-0 1.90 0.54 9/11-56-33-0-0 2.22 0.63 11/ 0-9-0-55-36 4.18 0.83 8/ 8 8-13-0-D-0 1.13. 0.33 ' \·,'' ., I l'\i7/63-25-0-0-0 \ l 1.29 0.45 1/0-0-17-0-0 3.00 0.00 15/ 7-7-13-33-40 3.93 1.18 12/ 83-S-B-0-0 1.25 0.59 10/40-40-20-0-0 1.80 0.75 8/ 0-22-11-.33-22 3.63 1.11 11/ 0-18-0-27-55 4.18 1.11 8/ 1 00-0-0-0-0 1.00 0.00 6. Work involved in preparation oflab !feports was: (1) no reports required (2) minimal (3) average (4) quite a lot (5) too much. (5) Doesn't integrate at all i 3. Would you say that there was\ (1) too much supervision (~) too much, in proport~on to the course. 5. The importance of lab exams With respect to the lab grade was... · For the following statements, indicate your response by the following numbers: (2) Adequate supervision (3) amount of supervision made little difference ( 4) though adequate, supervision wa~ not helpful (5) not enough supervision RRT/ENROLL L 8 15 53% L 8 15 53% L 14 16 88% L 7 13 54% L 8 n 67% L 8 12 67% L 8 13 62% L 4 8 50% L 12 20 60% t 8 22 36% L 15 22 68% L 10 19 53% L 5 11 45% L 11 22 50% L 14 20 70% QUES. 1 8/ 0-75-0-13-13 2.63 1.11 8/13-SD-13-25-0 2.50 1.00 14/ 21-43-0-21-14 2.64 1.39 7/ D-57-14-14-14 2.86 1.13 8/ 25-63-13-0-0 1.88 0.60 8/ 63-25-0-13-0 1.63 0.99 8/ 25-38-0-38·0 2.50 1.22 4/ 25-50-25-0-0 2.00 12/ 0-83·0\ 17-0 2.33 0.75 8/ 25-25-0-50-0 2.75 1.30 15/ 13-33-13-40-0 2.80 1.11 10/ 20-30-30-20-0 2.50 1.02 5/ 0-60-20-20-0 2.60 11/27-45-9-18-0 2.18 1.03 14/14-57-0-14-14 2.57 1.29 QUES. 2 8/13-75-0-13-0 2.13 0.78 8/ 25-63-0-13-0 2.00 0.87 14/14-50-0-21-14 2.71 1.33 7/14-86-0-0-0 1.86 0.35 8/ 38-63-0-0-0 1.63 0.49 8/38-50-0-13-0 1.88 0.93 8/13-7 5-0-13-0 2.13 0.78 4/ 100-0-0-0-0 1.00 12/17-33-25-25-0 2.58 1.04 8/13-13-0-75-0 3.38 1.11 15/ 0-67-7-27-0 2.60 0.88 9/ 0-50-10-20-10 2.89 1.10 5/ ()- 8 0-0-20-0 2.40 11/9-18-45-27-0 2.91 0.90 14/7-50-14-14-14 ?. 79 1.20 (1) no exams (2) rather little (3) nominal ( 4) More than half the grade (5) entire lab grade. QUES. 3 8/13-75-13-0-0 2.00 0.50 8/ 13-38-13-13-25 3.00 1.41 14/ 0-64-0-14-21 2.93 1.28 7/ 0-57-14-29-0 2.71 0.88 8/ 0-100-0-0-0 2.00 0.00 8/ 0-75-13-13-0 2.38 0,69 8/ 0-88-0-13-0 2.25 0.66 4/ 0-100-0-0-0 2.00 12/ 0-83-8-8-0 2.25 0.59 8/ 0-75-0-0-25 2.75 1.30 15/7-33-27-33-0 2.87 0.96 9/ 0-80-0-10-0 2.22 0.63 5/ 0-60-40-0-0 2.40 11/ 0-73-18-9-0 2.36 0.64 14/ Q-64-21-14-0 2.50 0 7~ QUES. 4 8/ 13-6 3-13-13-0 2.25 0.83 8/ 0-63-13-13-13 2.75 1.09 14/7-14-36-36-7 3.21 1.01 7/ 0-14-29-43-14 3.57 0.90 8/ 0-25-38-38-0 3.13 0.78 8/13-25-38-25-0 2.75 0.97 8/ 0-7 5·13-13-0 2.38 0.69 4/ 0-25-75-0-0 2.75 11/ 25-33-25-8-0 2.18 0.93 8/63-13-13-0-13 1.88 .1:36 15/ 0-13-27-27-33 3.80 1.04 9/ 0~&0-10-0-0 2.11 0.32 5/40-40-20-0-0 1.80 11/18-36-36-9-0 2.36 0.88 14/ 0-14-50-7-29 ~ <;O 1 O'i (1) Strong agreement, (2) Agreement, (3) No opinion, (4) Disagreement, (5) Strong disagreement. 7. The lab instructor was quite approachable and usually ready to help. QUES. 5 8/ 88-0-0-0-13 1.50 1.32 8/88-0-13-0-0 1.25 0.66 13/ 79-0-7-0-7 1.46 1.15 6/ 29-0-43-0-14 2.67 1.37 7/ 7 5-0-13-0-0 1.29 0.70 7/ 7 5-13-0-0-0 1.14 0.35 8/ 88-0-0-0-13 1.50 1.32 4/100-0-0-0-0 1.00 1 0/ 0-0-D-1 0-90 4.90 0.30 12/ 8-0-17-0-75 4.33 1.25 8/ 0-0-0-0-1 00 5.00 0.00 15/13-2D-6D-0-7 2.67 0.94 9/ 80-0-0-10-0 1.33 0.94 5/ 60-20-0-0-20 2.00 11/18-45-36-Q-0 2.18 0.71 14/ 0-36-50-14-0 2.79 0.61 QUES. 6 8/ 0-0-50-38-13 3.63 0.7{) 8/ 0-13-25-38-25 3.75 0.97 14/7-0-7-57-29 4.00 1.00 7/ 0-14-0-57-29 4.00 0.93 8/ 0-0-50-38-13 3.63 0.70 8/ 0-0-25-63-13 3.88 0.60 8/ Q-13-38-50-0 3.38 ().69 ,.4/ 0-0-50-50-0 3.50 J 10/9D-D-0-0-10 1.40 1.20 12/ 92-0-0-0-8 1.33 1.10 8/ I 00-0-0-0-0 1.00 0.00 15/ 0-27-20-33-20 3.47 1.09 9/ 0-30-60-0-0 2.67 0.47 5/ 20-40-40-0-0 2.20 11/- 9-9-64-18-0 2.91 0.79 14/79-21-0-0-0 1.21 0,40 QUlES. 7 8/ 88-13-0·0-0 1.13 0.33 8/ 50-38-13-0-0 1.63 0.70 14/79-7-7-0-7 1.50 1.12 7/57-14-29-D-0 1.71 0.88 8/ 7 5-13-13-D-0 1.38 0.69 8/ 50-38-0-0-13 1.88 1.27 8/ 50-25-0-13-13 2.13 1.45 4/ 50-50-0-0-0 1.50 10/ 30-60-10-0-0 1.80 0.60 121 5 8-3 3-Q-8-0 ' 1.58 0.87 8/ 75-25-0-0-0 1.25 0.44 15113-40-13-7-27 2.93 1.44 9{ 50·40-D-0·0 1.44 0.49 5 t 40-40- 20-D-0 1.80 11/ 91-9-0-0-0 1.09 0.28 141 43-29-14-14-0 2.00 1.07 7/ 25-13-25-25-0 2.57 1.17 2/ 0-0-0-0-33 5.00 0.00 15/7-27-13-27-27 3.40 1.31 12/42-50-0-8-0 1.75 0.83 10/ 30-40-10-20\0 2.20 1.08 9/11-11-22-44-11 3.33 1.15 11/45-27-0-18-9 2.18 1.40 8/38-50-0-13-0 1.88 0.93 7/ 0-63-13-13-0 2.43 0.73 1/ 0-0-17-0-0 3.00 0.00 15/ 0-7-7-27-60 4.40 0.88 11/ 33-50-8-0-0 1.73 0.62 10/0-0-10-70-20 4.10 0,54 9/ 0-11-44-22-22 3.56 0.95 11/ 9-0-9-36-45 4.09 1.17 7/ 25-50-13-0-0 1.86 0.64 ot o-o-o-o-o **** 15/13-40-7-7-33 3.07 1.51 11/ 58·33•0-D-0 . 1.36. 0.48 10/ 0-100-0-0-0 2.00 o.oo 9/ 0-67-0-11-22 2.89 1.28 11/9-45-18-18-9 2.73 1.14 8/ 7 5-25-0-0-0 8/1 00-0-0-0-0 1.25 0.44 1.00 0.00 8. The lab instructor exhibits a broad and thorough knowledge of his subject. · 9. The allotted time for in~aboratory work was adequate. 10. If you were to rate the best LAB that you have ever taken as 100 and the worst as 0, how would you rate this laboratory? (1) o to 10 (2) 21 to 40 (3) 41 to 60 (4) 61 to 80 (5) 81 to 100 QUES. 8 8/ 38-38-13-13-0 2.00 1.00 8/ 0-13-25-50-13 3.63 0.86 14/79-14-0-0-7 1.43 1.05 7/ 14-43-29-0-14 2.57 1.17 8/ D-38-38-25-0 2.88 0.78 8/63-0-0-25-1:3 2.25 1.64 8/38-13-38-0-13 2.38 1.32 4/ 1 00-0-0-0-0 1.00 10/ 90-0-1 Q-0-0 1.20 0.60 11/ 92-0-0-0-0 1.00 0.00 8/ 38-50-13-0-0 1.75 0.66 15/ 7-33-20-20-20 3.13 1.26 9/ 50-40-0-0-0 1.44 0.49 5/ 40-40-20-0-0 1.80 11/ 64-27-9-D-0 1.45 0.66 14/ 29-57-14-0-0 1.86 0.64 QUES. 9. 8/ 38-3'8-25-0-0 1.&8 (). 78 8/13-88-0-0-0 1.88 0.33 14/21-21-0-36-21 3.14 1.51 7/ 0-57-0-43-0 2.86 0.99 8/ 0-63-13-25-0 2.63 0.86 8/ 25-38-0-0-38 2.88 1.69 8/ 50-13-25-0-13 2.13 1.36 4/5Q,o50-0-0-0 1.50 10/60-20-10-10-0 1.70 1.00 12/ 83-17-0-0-0 1.17 0.37 8/ 63-25-0-0-13 1.75 1.30 14/20-33-0-20-20 2.86 1.51 9/ 50-40-QoO-O 1.44 0.49 5/20-40-20-20-0 2.40 11/18-27~9-27-18 3.00 t.41: 14/29-43-7-14-7 2.29 1.22 QUES. 10 8/13-0-63-25-0 50 0.87 8/ 0-25-38-25-13 56 0.97 12/29-7-7-21-21 50 1.63 7/29-0-57-0-14 43 1.28 S/ 0-0-25-38-38 78 0.78 8/ 13-13-13-0-63 72 1.54 8/13-25-0-13-50 66 1.58 !· 4/ 0-0-25-50-25 . 75 10/ 0-10-30-60-0 63 0.67 11/ 8-0-17-33-33 73 1.17 8/ 0-0-38-50-13 69 0.66 14/27-20-13-13-20 45 1.52 9/ 0-0-30-20-40 78 0.87 5/ 0-20-0-40-40 75 10/ 0-18-1-6-lff-36 70 1.17 14/ 29-14-7-21-29 52 1.62

THE UNION COLLEGE COl,JRSE EVA,_..JATION iVlAY 1), 1~1>~ fiAljf .L·lfi • .. -x , I . I 4 t, .J D• Ques~it il1z:24 12. The instructor was eager to give help to the student outside of the classroom. 13. The ins.tructor f1acl a broad and thorough knowledge of 21. Considering tlw demgn of th~ course, Qect1,1.re 1 recitation, serninar,lab._), would you say the elass was: · (1) too large. ·· ~ · · 24. If yo.u were tq r~te the best cour,se that you h_ave ever taken 1\S 1.9Q\ •• au.d t!).e worst cotme ~ 0, how would you rate this cours.e? the course materiaL \ · 14. StuQent's questions were handled well; the instn.tctpr made ~ure that the.student understood material that he diq not previously grasp. 15. The instructor generally expe9ted too much 6·om the student. 16 .. Tile reading matertal used llad much relevance to the obje..:tives of the course. 17. It was easy to take notes in class. 18. Gasses have maintained th~ st\.lcl.enfs interest in the course. 19. Class discussion and/or lecture aided definition and synthesis of course material. 20. How necessary was class attendance? (1) Attendance required for grade_ (2) Attendance not requited but helpful for course understanding. (3) Attendance not helpful. (4) Attendance required for grade but not helpful for course. (S) No opinion, (2) ll!J~e birt functionaL {~}. of desirable size. (4) small but functional. .. (S) too small. Z2. What kind of exam preparation was necessary? ( 1) M:emorization. (2) liJ.terpret~tion (analy~i;;). (3) :Both memory and apaly~is. (4) Synthesis. ' (5) No eXEtms w~re given. Z3. Forth~ WlQlunt of wo~k tqat you put into the course, how much did ycll.l get out of it? (1) You put too much work in an.d got very little out of the CQU.~e. (2) You put a not of work in and got much out of the cour-se. (3) You put a little work tn an<l got a lot out of the course. ( 4) You put in. little work and gat little out of the course. (5) You put in l!ll1 average amount of work and derived the same 3!mount. {l) 0 to zo (2) 2l tt~40 (3) 41 to 60 (4) 61 to &Q (5) 81 to 100 ... l~; f COURSE QUES. 12 QUBS. 13 QWS. 14 Q~. 15 P$Y..010-03 18/ 21-21-21-21-11 19/ 37-37-11-11-5 18/ ~1-32-U-26-5 19/ ll·11-l6·]2·32 Q~~' 1o 19/ 5&42·0-0-0 QW~, ~1 19/ Zl-47·5·11·16 ~ve~, 1~ 19/ 4 7·26·{}-16·11 2. 78 1.3Z 2.11 1.17 Z.61 1.25 3.63 1.31 PSY-020.01 13/54-3H$-lW l3/15-{i2·8-15-0 13/ 8-#-2:H5-8 12/ l5·31·3H5.0 1.6Z 0,73 4.~3 Q,6? ~.61i/ 1.07 2.50 O.!\l6 PSY-024-01 18/11·39-39·6-6 18/4444-11-0-0 18/ ~Z-44-11-17-6 18/11-17-17-50.6 2.56 0.95 1.67 0.67 2.39 1.16 3.22 I.a4 PSY·03Q-01 22/ 45-18-36-D-0 22/86-14-!;)-0-0 22/ SQ-36-9-5-Q 1J/9-23-18-32!-14 1.91 0.90 1.14 0.35 1.~ 0.82 3.19 1.22 PSY-031-01 10/55-27-9...().0 11/45-55-0-0-0 11/ 18-18-0-27-36 11/ 9-36·18-36·0 1.50 0.67 1.55 0.50 3.45 1.56 2.82 1.103 PSY-039-01 6/33-50-0-0-17 6/ 50-33·0-11·0 6/ 33-67-0..0·0 6/ 1 HH 7·5Q-l7 2.17 1.35 1.83 1.07 1.67 0.47 3.50 l.Z6 PSY-045·01 6/100·0-0-0-0 6! 100..()-0..0·0 6/ 83-Q·Q-0·17 6/ 33-33·17-171·0 1.00 0.00 1.00 0.00 1.67 1.49 2.17 U)7 PSY-048-01 12/ 67·8-8·0-17 12/ S0-42-8-0-Q 12/2542·25-8-0 12/17·33·&42·0 1.92 1.50 1.58 0.64 2.l7 0.90 2.15 1.16 EGR-011-01 15/13-31-25-25-0 15/44-25·19-6-0 15/ 13-31-31-1% 15/13-19·19-38-6 2.67 0.10 1.87 0.96 2.67 1.08 3.07 1.!1.8 EGR-011-02 19/ 50..35-10-0-0 18/ 55·35-()..()..0 19/40-40-5-10-0 17/ S-1s-10-4HO 1.58 0.68 1.39 0.49 1.84 0.93 3.47 1.109 EGR-011·03 12/15·54·8-8-8 12/62-lHHS..O 12/ 1$-46-25·8-8 12/ 0.31-31H5·8 2.33 1.10 1,67 1.10 M2 l.lZ 3.00 0.!91 EGR·Oll-o4 14/ 43-57-o-o-o 14( 71-29-Q-0.-0 14/ SQ-29-14-7-o 13/7-14-21-36-14 1.57 0.49 1.29 0.45 1.79 0.94 3.38 1.14 EGR·022•01 18/39·33·22·6·0 18/ 67·22·11·(}0 18/6-44•11•28·11 18/ 11·11·~3-~9-6 ;I,?4 Q,n l.44 (),99 ~.94 ·· l.l7 3.17 1.101 EGR-022-02 13/ 31-31-15-15-8 13/54-23-23-0..0 13/31-23-15-31..0 13/38-31-15-ll5-0 2.38 1,.27 1.69 0.82 2.46 1.22 2.08 1.t07 EGR-030-01 8/25-38-25-13·0 2.25 0.97 8/ 75-13-1.3-0-0 8/ 25-38-25-13..() 1.38 0.69 2.25 0.97 8/ 13-63-25-0-'0 2.13 0.150 EGR-030.02 8/ 25-63-13·0-0 ,·. 1.88 0.60 8/ 0-88·13-Q..O 8/2.5·5(l-13·13·0 2.13 0.33 2.13 0.93 8/ 0.25-25-S()..O 3.25 0.!83 9/ 89-11-0-0-0 9/ 67-33-0-0-0 1.11 o.n 1.33 o.4 1 EGR-050-01 9/ 56-44-0-0-0 . 1\.44 0.49 9/ 0-0-22-67-11 3.89 0.57 7/14-14-29-14-29 3.29 1.38 EGR-051-01 7 I 71·29-o..o-o 1.29 0.45 7/86-14-0-0..() . 1.14 0.35 7/71·0-0-14-14 \2.00 1.60 \\\ ' ... \... ..... .... . ..._ \' ;... \'\ ..... 1.4~ 0.50 13/ ~31·23·0.0 1.77 0.8() 1 '6/ 44-39-17-0.0 1.1~ 0,73 22/41-~?-lS-14-0 2.0S 1.~ 11/ 45·27·0-27·0 2.09 1.24 6/ 17-5()..17·17..0 2.33 Q.94 6/ 67·17·17-0.0 1.50 0.76 12/ 17-50:-3-25..0 2.42 1.04 15/31-38-13-()..13 2.20 1.28 19/ 30..,55-5-S...O 1.84 0.7$ 12/ 38-38·15-(Jo..() 1.15 0,7~ 13/ 50..29-14-0-0 1.62 0.13 17/ ZS-39-P-17-0 2.18 1.04 1 '1/ 54- 2~·8-8-0 1.67 0.94 8/ 50-3&-13-0-0 1.63 0.70 8/3a-63-()...(l-0 1.63 0.49 9/ 44-33-22..().0 1.78 0.79 5/ 14-14-43-0-0 2.40 0.80 . ..., ~ ,... 2.53 1.35 13/ OT31-54-IH5 3.QD 0.96 18/ 17-28-17-17-22 3.00 1.14 21/ ~6-!/lS-9-0-0 1.73 0.62 ll/ 9<-18-9·45-18 3.45 1.23 6/ 33-17·33·<>-17 2.50 1.39 6/ 67-17-17-()..0 1.50 0.76 1Z/17-.S(}.S.25-0 2.42 1.04 15/25-13·38·19-0 2.53 1.09 19/ 20-5.$-5-15..0 2.16 0.93 12/1546-15-8-8 2.42 1.12 14/ 21-S?-14-0...7 2.14 0.99 18/ 0.3:?-22-33-11 3.22 1.03 t'J/ ~1-~9-15-9-S 2.23 1.19 8/ 50...25-25-0-0 1.75 0.83 ~/ 0-63-13-25-0 2.63 0.86 8/ 22-67-0-()..() 1.75 0.44 7/43-43-0-14·0 1.86 0.99 ..., '; 2.16 1.4Z 12/ {}-(}-31-31·31 4.00 0.82 18/ 39-39-6-6·11 2.11 1.28 2'l/ S~-~6-.S.S-O 1.59 0.78 11/18·9·9·27-36 3.55 1.50 6/ 50-33-0-17·0 1.83 1.07 6/ 6H H 7·0-0 1.50 0.76 12/ 25-4 2- 25-8.{) 2.17 0.90 15/ 6-44-25·13.-ti 2.67 1.01 19/ 60-15-15..0-5 1..68 1.08 12/ 31·38-8-8-8 2.17 1.21 14/ 43-36-14-'7-0 1.86 0.92 18/11-17-22-33-17 3.28 1.24 13/ 31-S-23-2HS 2.BS 1.46 8/ 38-38-13-13-0 2.00 1.00 8/13-SO..JH3-13 2.63 1.22 9/ 44--22·2H1·0 2.00 1.05 7/ 43-14.-14-19·0 2.29 1.28 ' .... ,_ '· 1 ~ • \ QV£~. 1!;1 QUE$ 20 111 26-3H6·5·S 19/ s-ss-n-o-s 2.18 1.10 2.42 0.82 13/ \K~lS·ZH;5 13/ \\K~3H5·8 3.0S 1.14 2.85 0.95 18/ 28-50-6·0-17 18/ 11·67·22-Q..O 2.28 1.33 2.11 0.57 '-2/ 50-45-S..()..(} 22/ 0.1 00.0.0-0 1.55 0.58 2.00 0.00 11/ 27·27·9·9·27 11/ 1845-9-18-9 2.82 1.58 2.55 1.23 6/ 83-0-17-0..0 6/ 50..50-0-0-0 1.33 0.75 1.50 0.50 . 6/67-33..()..()..0 6(17-83·0-0-0 1.33 0.47 1.83 0.37 12/ 0-83-17..0..0 12/ 0-92-8-0-0 2.17 0.37 2.08 0.28 1$/ 19-38-31-6-0 15/ 13453-1940 2.27 0.85 2.07 0.57 19/ 50-35-5-5...0 20/25-6(}.5-0..10 1.63 0.81 2.10 1.09 12/23-38-8.-15-8 12/23-69-0-0-0 2.42 1.26 1.75 0.44 13/ 29-43-14-7..() 14/ 21-'79-()..()..0 Z.OO 0.'88 1.79 OAO 17/ Q-28·22-28-17 18/17-33-44-()..6 3.35 1.08 2.44 0.95 12/23-15-31-15-B 13/ 3946-D-S..B 2.67 1.25 2.00 1.17 8/ 25-50-25..0·0 7/ 63-13-13-Q..O 2.00 0.71· 1.43 0.73 8/ 25-38-38-0-0 8/ 13-88-o.0-0 2.13 9.78 1.88 0.33 9/22-67-11-{)-0 9/ ()..78·11-()..11 1.~9 0.57 2.44 0.95 7/ $7•29-14-0..0 7/ 0:86-Q-0.14 1.57 0.73 2.43 1.0~ ~ \· ~ ... > ,, .... • ._! description hol~s foF all questions with a minor exception. The mean for qu~$tion twenty-four, th~ course rating, is. actually a numeric~ couJSe tating, })ased on the me<tn offu.e re~pons,e appli~ tg a 0-100 scale. One will notice; that independent st1,1dies are excluqeq as are· co1,1rses Witfi mifiiJtl1il 0T ZHO fvll}l'l)miY• Tpey only take up sp.ace since one or two answers have no meaning. The fulJ repp.rt that was mal;le available in the library last year, will a.~ain be p\lt there in the near future. It will includ{: the st,atistical data printeQ. here, ~s well as some correlation of iriterest such as the gr~de received versus cumulative index, grade reveived .versus grade expected, etc. ·' . ' QUE$ 21 QUES 22 18/41-21-n-o.o l.9/ 5-16-79-0·0 Z.14 o.ss 1.89 0.87 1.3/ 31~23-46-{}.C 2.15 0.86 l?>c/31~15,..$4.{M) 2.23 0.89 18/33-67-0-0-0 1.67 0.47 17/17,33-18-17-0 2.47 0.97 22/ 41-50.9-0.0 1.68 0.63 211 18·14•4J•l8-0 2.67 0.99 11/ g. 27-~4-,()..0 11/ 9-18-64-9-0 2.55 0.66 2. 73 0.75 6/ 0.33-67-0-0 6/0-0-0-100 2.67 0.47 5.00 0.00 ' 6/ 0..0-10()..().0 3.00 0.00 6/ ()-1 7-83-0..0 2.83 0.37 ., 12/ 50..42-&-0-0 12/ 8-33·50-S.O 1.58 0.64 2.58 0.76 15/19-19-56·0-0 15/13-25-5(),6-0 2.40 0.80 2.53 0.81 19/ 54545-Q..O 20/ 5-15-75-5·0 2.42 0.59 2.80 0.60 12/ 15-38-38..()..0 12/ 0-3146-8-8 2.25 0.72 2.92 0.87 13/21-7-64-0-0 2.46 0.84 14/ %-14-50.0-0 2.14 0.92 1~/17-33-44-6-0 . ?.39 0.82 18/11-39-50-0..0 2.39 0.68 13/ 23-lS-54-8.0 2.46 0.93 13/15-15-69-0.0 . 2 . .54 0.74 8/ 0-38-63-(1..0 8/ D-25·15-0-0 2.63 0.49 '1,.15 0.44 8/ ()..().88-13·0 8/ ()..88-13-()..0 3.13 0.33 2.13 0.33 9/ 11·44-:h-11-o 2.44 0.83 9/ D-22·78·D-0 2.78 (,).41 7/ 0-0.100-Q..O 7/ 0-14-57-29-0 3.00 0.00 3.14 0.64 \'' \· <..; ... '- Lab Responses At the bottom of this page are th(;l questions and responses for laboratory sections during Whiter term. SiMe there are ten questions about each sr;:ction, half of the sections are reported on this page, and half on the back page. Although the questions about labs differ, the statistical techniques are the !:Mlle. ~'' All responsibility for the information printed here is accepted by the Union College Course Evaluation editor·s. Ql.+estion~ from outside the Union College community should be directed to us rather than the College. For those of you interested in the method behind this analysis, we refer you to ·p-reface of Linebacker, Winter Term 1968. We will be happy to answer any questions on the actual data, methods, or any other phase of this survey. Ql.JES23 18/5·42·32-11·5 2.67 0.94 P/31.46·0-23-Q 2.1.5 1.10 18/ 11-56-6-11-17 2.67 1.29 21/ j-4J.Z3•j·~ 2.62 1.09 11/ 45-36-0-9-9 2.00 1.28 6/ 0..83-Q..0-17 2.50 1.12 6/ 0-100-0-0-0 2.00 0.00 11/ 0-SD-8·17·17 3.00 1.20 IS/ 19~38-6-6-~5 2.80 1.51 20/15·65-5-0..15 .. _ 2.35 1.20 12/15-54-8-0-15 2.42 1.26 13/7·11-7..0-7 . 2.23\ 0.89 18/ 22·0-22-33-22 3.33 1.41 13/23·77·0.0·0 1.71 0.41 8/ 13-SQ-38-Q-0 2.25 0.66 8/ 0-50..0·13·38 3.38 1.41 8/ ();67-11-0-11 2.50 1.00 7/ ();.86-0-0-14 2.43 1.05 ... ~-:.<':~-· ----- '- QUES.24 19/ 5•5·26-42·21 67 1.03 1~/ 46-IH·SS-0 35 1.39 18/ 6-Q. 22-17-56 79 1.12 21/ 9·\5-27-945 70 1.33 ll/18·9-18·45·9 55 1.26 6/ ()..()..0-17-83 96 0.37 6/ 17-0-0-17-67 79 1.46 12/ 0-8·25·58·8 67 0.75 14/ ().13o44·1:3·19 61 0.97 19/ 0..10..5-3545 80 0.95 12/ 0-15-23-31-23 67 1.03 14/ Zl·D-1·36·36 66 1.49 18/ 22-1i-33-17-17 49 1.35 13/31-D-!J-:~3-38 60 1.69 8/ ()-13\25·38·25 69 0.97 8/ ()..()..SQ-25·25 69 0.83 9/ Q-11-0-44-44 81 0.92 7/ 14·0-29-29-29 64 1.29 ~ .. .,;:

, **** o-o-o-o-o lo oo·o oo·£ o-o-L r-o-o IT t9'0 98'1 o-o-n-o~-~z 1 L £CO £t'Z 0-£1-£1·£ 9-o I L oo·o oo·s £ £-o-o-o-o IZ LI\I LS\Z o-sz-sz-£ r-sz; I L oo·o oo·£ o-o-L 1-0-o /I St'O 6Z'I ' '\ 01JirS~-£9/L' 1•.\·' \•1! \ ' # \ , • ~ ,. # ,. # It MAY 6,1969 GE0-012-01 GE0-051-01 7 .~.; ~ '! MTH-010-01 MTH-010-02 MTH-012-01 MTH-012-02 ·. MTH-012-03 MTH-012-04 MTH-012-05 MTH-012-06 MTH-012-07 MTH-014-01 b<·.. ,. · MTH-028-01 MTH-030-01 21 50-50-0-0-D 1.50 5/ 60-40-0-0-0 1.40 15/ 60-33-7-0-0 1.47 0.62 21 100-0-0-0-0 1.00 5180-0-20-0-0 1.40 21 0-100-0-0-0 2.00 5/ 60-20-20-0-0 1.60 PAGE L-12 2f 0-50-0-50-0 3.00 5/ 0-0-40-40-10 3.80 14/47-27-7-13-0 15/ 13-53-20-13-0 14/0-13-27-27-27 1.86 1.06 2.33 0.87 3'.71 L03 15/20-47-20-13-0 15/ 20-47-27-0-7 15/ 20-20-40-0-20 15/20-20-40-13-7 2.27, . 0.93 2.21 0.99 2.80 1.33 2.61 1.14 ·-I l- 16/ 81-19:0-0-0 1.19 0.40 15/ 75-19-0-0-0 i6/ 56-44-0-0-0 16/ 0-0-13-69•19 1.20 0.40 1.44 0.49 4.06 0.56 161 25-44-19-6-0 16/ 81-13-0-6-0 14/ 38-38-6-0-6 16/25-31-38-6-0 2.07 . 0.85 1.31 0.77 1.86 1.96 2.25 0.90 161 31-50-13-6-0 16/69-31-0-0-0 16/ 38-56-0-0-6 16/ 25-25-6-44-0 1.94 0.82 <:1'.31 0.47 1.81 0.95 2.69 1.26 J ' 12/25-67-0-8-0 12/ Q-67-17-8-8 1210-42-17-33-8 12/33-25-33-8-0 1.92 0. 76 2.58 0.95 3.08 1.04 2.17 0.98 ' ~ ~· 1310-38-15-31-15 13/31-31-8-23-8 1318-0-15-38-38 12/23-15-23-23-8 3.23\ 1.12 '2.46 1.34 4.00 1.11 2.75 1.30 ~· 15/ 63-25-6-0-0 15/ 81-13-0-0-0 151 63-25-6-0-0 151 0-0-13-56-25 1.40 0.61 1.13 0.35 1.40 0.61 4.13 0.6-2 ~. 10/ 67-17-0-0-0 10142-33-8-0-0 101 25-50-8-0-0 101 0-8-25-33-17 1.20 · OAO 1.60 0.66 . 1.80 0.60 3. 70 .0.90 6167-33-0-0-0 6/67-0-17-0-17 6133-0-17-33-17 6/0-17-0-50-33 1.33 0.47 :2.00 > 1'.53 3.00 1.53 4.00 ~.00 t: • ·· ... _: 7/29-43-29-0-0 7/ 0-71•14-14-0 7/ 14-57-0-29-0 7/ 0-29-0-57-14 · 2.oo 0.75 2.43 . om 2.43 1.05 3.57 I.os 8125-13-50-13-0 2.50. 1.00 8/ 50-50-0-0-0 1.50 0.50 8/ 38-50-0-13-0 81 Q-0-13-63-25 1.88 0.93 4.13 G.6U '. MTH-030-02 7/ 92-43-29-0-0 · J.OO ,- O; 75 7/ 43-29-29-0-0 71 0-57-29-14-0 71 0-0-43-57·0 1.86 ' 0.83 2.57 0.73 3.5.7 0.49 . . ,o·· MTH-030-03 131 31-54-15-0-0 MTH-032-01 MTH-032-02 MTH-045-01 MTH-048-01 1.85'. 0.66 9/ 60-30-0-0-0 . 1.33 0.47 5/ 50-33-0-0-0 1.40 0.49 5/ 0-6 o- 20- 20·0 2.60 3/ 0-100-0-0-0 2.00 13/ 23,-62-15-0-0 13/15-62-15-8-0 1318-D-31-54-8 1.92 o,62 2.15 o.n 3.54· 0.93 . 10/40-40-20-0-0 10/40-30-10-20-0 9/ 0-10-30-10-40 1.80 0.75 2.10 1.14 3.89 1.10 6/ 100-0-0-0-0 . 1.00 0.00 51 80-0-0-0-20 1.80 3/ 67-33-0-0-0 1.33 5/ 33-50-0-0-0 6/17-33-17-17-17 ' 1.60 0.49 2.83 1.35 5120-20·40-20-0 5/ 0-20-20-410-20 2.60' 3.60 31 33-67-0-0-0 3/ 0-33-33-33-0 1~7 3~0 PHY-011-01 9/ 10-40-30-10-0 9/ 40-50-0-0-0 2.44 0.83 1.56 0.49 9/10-20-30-10-20 91 20-50-0-2iQ-O 3.11 1.28 2.22 1.03 9/ 22-33-44-0-0 2.22 0.79 PHY-011-02 ! ' .PHY·OH-03 1119-36-36-18-0 2.64 0.88 PHY -011-04 · ' 9 I 11- 21<-44·11-11 ·:}.,~'8'·.,: r '1.10 PHY-011-05 PHY~03.3·01 PHY-046-01 fHY-011-01 PSY-010-01 PSY-010-02 .,, . 10/ 4:2-'3.3,8-0-0 1.60 0.66 7[57·29·14-0-b . 1.57 o.p 3/33-67-0-0-0 1.67 . 39/-5 ... 21-56-7-2 2.79 0.75 24/ 29-38~25~8\0 2.13 0.93 141 33-7-53-0-0 2.21 0.94 9/ 44-56-0-0-0 1.56 0.49 11145-27-18-9-0 1.91 0.99 9/ 44-22-33-0-0 .. 1.89 0.87 11/ 42'42-0•8-0 1.73 0.86 7114-43-43-0-0 2.29 0.70 21 o-33-33-o-o 2.50 39( 40-4i-7-2-0 ·1.69 ' 0.72 Z'J( 7~\ p•0-4-0 1.26 0.68 14/47-40-7-0-0 1.57 0.62 9/ 22-11-22-44-0 8/ 22-22-22-22-0 2.89 1.20 2.50 1.12 11/ 9-45-18-27-0 11/ 9-27-27-27-9 2.64 0.98 3.00 l.I3 9122-22-11-33-li~ :9/ 11-22-22-22-22 2.98 1.37('! 3.22 1.32 : ' 11/ 33-50-8-0-0 . 10/17-0-17-50-0 1.73 0.62 '3,20 '1.17 1[ 0-57-14·2~-0 i. 1/ 0-14-Z9!p7-0 2.71 0.88 3.43 , Ot1·3 31 Q-100-0-0-0 I 3fj)-0-Q-lQQ-O 2.00 ·4.00 38/2-28-47-9-2 371 7-~9-30-23.!.7 2.79 0.76 3.05 '1.06 24/ 54-384-0~ 24/4.33-13-46\j.- ',. 1.63 0.91 '; .3.'1.3 1!.0~ ~- ' 14/7-27-40.13-7 . 1417-20-40-B-13 2.86 0.99'\ · 3:01 ··. T1tf- .. 61n ££'l L I1J·o-o-n: /£ 6t\O LS\I o-o-o-os-8£ It., (to It . 2/ 0-100-0-0-0 2.00 51 60-40-0-0-0 1.40 14/ 20-21-47-0-0 2.29 0.79 151 20-33-40-7-0 2.33 0.87 16/44-25-13-13-6 2.13 · L27 16/19-19-38-13-13 2.81 1.24 'j. 1416-38-31-13-0 2.57 0.82 12/ 33-25-8-33-0 2.42 1.26 12/ 8-38-31-0-15 2.75 1.16 14/31-31-25-0-0 1.93 0.79 10117-33-25-0-8 2.40 1.11 6/ 33-33-33-0-0 2.00 0.82 11 0-43-57-0-0 2.57 0.49 8138-50-13-0-0 1.75 0.66 7129-43-0-0 2.00 0.75 12/ 31-38-23-0-0 1.92 0.76 10I40-4D-2D-D-O 1.80 0.75 61 50-50-0-0-0 1.50 0.50 51 4D-2D-2D-D-20 2.40 31 0-33-33-33-0 3.00 9/ 30-30-30-0-0 2.00 0.82 81 56-22-11-D-0 1.50 0.71 i1/ 55-27-9-9-0 ' . 1.73 0.96 9111-67-D-22-0 2.33 0.94 10/42-17-17-8-0 1.90 1.04 7{ 14-71-14-D-0 2.00 0.54 31 0-100-0-0-0 2.00 38/ 23-40-19-5-2 2.13 0.95 24/ 67\254--0-4 1.50 0.91 141 33-40-7-13-0 2.00 1.00 .. -· -· ·~----- 'Nio , Lt'O L9'1 o-o-o-££-L I /£ vvo sn o-o-o-s t., -sl: /8 ,. ~ 2/ 50-50-0-0-0 1.50 5/ 40-40-20-0-0 1.80 15/ 27-53-0-20-0 2.13 1.02 14113•40-13-7-20 2.79 1.37 16/ 31-50-6-6-6 2.06 1.09 161 25-69-0-0-6 1.94 0.90 151 38-31-0-25-0 2.13 1.20 12/ 8-58-8-25-0 2.50 0.96 13/ 8-23-0-31-38 3.69 1.38 14/31-31-25-0-0 1.93 0.79 11/ 33-42-0-17-0 2,00 1.04 61 17-50-17-0-17 2.50 1.26 7114-71-14-0-0 2.00 0:54 8/ 25-50-13-0-13 2.25 1.20 7 I o-86-14-0-0 2.14 0.35 13/ 23-69-0-8-0 1.92 0.73 10I40-4D-2D-D-O 1.80 0.75 61 50-50-0-0-0 1.50 0.50 5/ 2D-60-0\0-20 2.40 31 0-100-0-0-0 2.00 9/ 0-40-10-30-10 3.11 1.10 91 0-44-11-33-11 3.1~ 1.10 111 D-9-45\18\27 .. 3:64 0.98 9/ 22-56-11-11-0 2.11 0.87 11/ 17-58-8-8-0 2.09 0.79 7/ 2943\29-Q-0 2.00 0.75 3 I 0-1 oo-o-o-o 2.00 37/9-47-16-12-2 2.43 0.94 ~4/ b~~R-0-0-0 UR 0.4!! 14120-13-27·13·20 3.00 1.41 €9't 00'€ 00'0 00'1 oo·o oo·1 L I1J-L 1-o-L I /£ o-o-o-o-os 1£ o-o-o-o-£ £ tz 617'0 £9'1 /..,1'1 £17'~ lL·o on ,. o-o-o-£9-8£ /8 n-o-n-oHI I L o-o-n-sz-£9 /8 - 21 0-50-50-0-0 2.50 5/ 40-20-20-20-0 2.20 15/ 20-27-20-13-20 2.87 1.41 15113-20-33-13-20 3.07 1.29 16/38-50-13-0-0 1.75 0.66 15125-38-13-13-6 2.33 1.19 16/ 13-69-13-0-6 2.19 0.88 12/0-50-17-17-17 3.00 1.15 13/ 8-0-8-23-62 4.31 1.14 141 25-44-13-6-0 2.00 0.84 11117-33-17-8-17 2.73 1.35 61 0-50-0-17-33 3.33 1.37 7/14-43-14-29-0 2.57 1.05 81 13-38-25-13-13 2.75 1.20 71 0-29-43-29-0 3.00 0.75 13115-31-23-23-8 2.77 1.19 101 20-20-20-30-10 2.90 1.30. 6/ 50-33-17-0-0 1.67 0,75 5/ 0-20-20-0-60 4.00 3/ 3 3-6 7-0-0-0 1.67 91 30-10-10-40 3.67 1.33 81 0-44-0-3-3-11 3.13 1.17 11/ 0-18-18-45-18 3.64 0.98 91 11-22-22-44-0 3.00 1.05 11/ 16-58-8-8-0 2.09 0.79 7./ 29•29-D-43-0 Z.57 1,29 3/ 0-67-33-0-0 2.33 311 s-2s-:ii~ilo-2 2.97LG fi:J.oo · '11/ 61-'11-11-0-0 1.4R 0.71 14/7-33-13-33·7 3.00 1.14 ~ 4 #II • • 2/ Q-1 00-Q-0-0 2.eo 21 50-50-0-0-0 1.50 \J. - 5140-40-0-20-0 2.00 5/ 20-80-0-0-0 1.80 14/40-33-13-0-7 15127-53-13-0-7 1.93 l.H) 2.01 0.99 14/ 13-40-27-0-13 15/ 7-60-20-13-0 2.57 1.17 2.40 0.&0 151 38-38-19-0-0 16/13-88-0-0-0 1.80 0.75 1.88 o.n \ 14138-31-13-0-6 16/ 38-56-D-0-6 1.93 1.10 1.81 0.95 16/ 31-50-13-6-0 16/ 19-81-0-0-0 1.94 0.82 1.81 0.40 111 0-58-8-17-8 121 0-83-8-8-0 2.73 1.05 2.25 0.59 131 0-23-15-15-46 121 0-23-54-8-8 3.85 1.23 3.00 0.82 13/ 31-38-13-0-0 151 0-94-0-0-0 1. 77 0.69 2.00 0.00 101 33-42-8-0-0 10/ 8-75•0-0-0 1.70 0.64 1.90 0.30 61 17-50-0-17-17 6/ 0-67-0-33-0 2.67 1.37 2.67 o:94 • 7/ 0-43-0-29-29 71 D-71-29-0-0 3.43 1.29 2.29 0.45 I 8125-25-25-13-13 8/ 0-75-25-0-0 2.63 1.32 2.25 0.44 71 0-57-43-0-0 7/ 0-57-43-0-0 2.43 0.49 2.43· OA9 13/15-46-23-8-8 13/ 8-85-8-0-0 2.46 1.08 2.00 0.39 10120-60-0-20-0 101 0-70-30-0-0 2.20 0.98 2.30 0.46 6/ 33-50-0-0-17 6/ 0-83-0-0-17 2.17 1.35 2.50 1.12 5140-20-20-20-0 5/ 20-40-20-0-20 . '2.2'0 2.60 31 67-33-0-0-0 31 33-67-0-0-0 1.33 1.67 91 0-10-40-10-30 9/10-30-30-20-0 3.67 1.05 2.67 0.94 81 D-33-22-22-11 8/ 22-22-22-22-0 3.13 1.05 2.50 1.12 11/ 9-27-45-18-0 11/45-18-18-18-0 2.73 0.86 2.09 1.17 91 22-56-22-Q-0 9/33-56-11-0-0 2.00 0.66 1.78 0.63 ' 10/ 25-50-8-0-0 11/ 17-58-0-0-17 1.80 0.60 2.36 1.30 7/ 14-86-0-Q-0 5/ 0,.71-D-0-0 1.86 0.35 2.00 0.00 3/ 0-100-0-0-0 3/ 33-67-0-0-0 2.00 1.67 ! ,.,;.w· ....... I 3P>I s-35-30-19-o; ··~':JJ .L-3-40-14-12-2 2.71 0.85 1 ,.- 2.2~ LOS 'D/ s.t-~l!,.0-0-4 24/ JJ-67-0-lio 1..~7 0.!!7 1.67 0.47 I I .. ._14/ 7-47-2(}7-13 .14/l3-_27-2'Z~2o-7 2. 71 1.16 2. 79 1.14 .. oo·o (J()·y o-o-o-o- L 1 I I £8'0 SL'l o-o-sz-sz-os 18 17L-l 39'0'd (..~ <i'. • • 21 0-0-50-50-0 3.50 51 0•0-60-40-0 3.40 151 0-20-80-0-0 2.80 0.40 15/ 13-40-47-0-0 2.33 0.70. 16/ 13-56-25-6-0 2.25 0.75 15/ 0-38-56-0-0 2.60. 0.49 16/ 6-44-,50-0-0 2.44. 0.61 12/ 0-25-58-8-8 3.00 0.82 13/ 0-15-85-0-0 2.85 0.36 14/ 6-38-44-0-0 2.43 0.62. HI 8-33-50-0•0 2.4'5 . 0.66 6 I 0-(}.lOD-D-O 3.00 0.00 ' 7 I 14-14-71-0-0 2.51 0.73 81 0-0-75-25-0 13.25· 0.44 1/0-0-100-0-0 3:00 0.00 13/ 8-15-69-8-0 2~77 0.69 101 0-30-70-0-0 2.70 0.46 5/ 0-17-50-17-0 3.00 0.63 5/ 0-0-40-20-40 4.00 3/ D-0-67-33-0 3.33 9/ 10-10-70-0-0 2.67 0.67 9111-22-67-0-0 2.56 0.69 11/ 0-0-100-j)-0 3.00 0.00 9/11-11-78-0-0 2.67 0.67 12/ 8-8-83-0-fl 2.75 0.59 6/14-D-71-0.0 .. 2.67 .0.:]5. Ol\£ L 1\££-0·L l\L I /~ 60'1 S'(';\l . 0-£1-8£-£1-8£ /8 ~- ·~ ... ~ • • 21 0\0-100-0-0 3.00 51 40-0-60-0-0 2.20 15113-7-73-7-0 2.73 0.77 15/ 27-20-47-7-0 2.33 0.94 151 25-6-56-0-6 2.53 1.09 16/0-19-81-0-0 2.81 0.40 16/ 0-6-88-6-0 3.00 0.36 121 25-0-67-8-0 2 . .58 0.95 13/ 23-8-69-0-0 2.46 0.84 14/ 0-6-75-6-0 3.00 0.37 121 8-8-83-0-0 2.75 0.59 5/ 0-33-50-0-0 2.60 0.49 11 14-0-86-0-0 2.71 0.70 8/ 0-6 3-3 8-0-0 2,38 0.48 7/ 14-14-71-0-0 2.57· 0.73 131 46-8-46-0-0 2.00 0.96 10/ o-0-100-0-0 3.00 o.oo 5/0-17-50-17-0 3.00 0.63 4/ 0-0-0-0-80 5.00 31 0-0-100-D-0 3.00 91 0-0-80-10-0 3.11 0.32 810-11-78-0-0 2.88 0.33 11/ 0-18-73-9-0 2.91 0.52 91 0-33-.67-0-0 ~2.67 0.47 12/ 8-Qc 7 5-8-8 ' i •-' ' .•.. 3.08 i 0.87• :- :!:.· ~~j~.i .1.':1 ... :l ·~·l~ 6/' 1.4.-29•29:,'14-0 '' ,· ~-:; .r4;50' .· 0.96. · .·~-71 ( ' ·J • -~ r _·If\. 310-0-33-33-33 .• ' ~.:'~/.Q-Q,{)17f3~p . ,,. '\ ' 4.00 , ·-!''l.', ,:;3_..33,;'J·;?<tLoj'.:r 39116-53-21-0-0 ) ( ~; 40/2-,9-67-2·1~, 2.os •o:6if• ~: ., ~~J·.· ~~~rr~:.~~·-o:M·;;r,·q rr. ·J · . \>· ·'!!,'\'~ UJf1TT5\ p.rr2Gq uJ: 24/17-5R-2~!0..0Z ·. t': i: a,W R-14--'71..!0-Q!!!J(A g 2!0R . 011.4 r;,.'!.· \lf.JnJ 1 2,gJ; rv~W' flJC .;·,u.: .. · · '~'\l.,l. ;· ·•· 1 . :•H;' I·!Jt; WG!TU 14/ 20-27-4!:1;.1hQ.•v ... Vl/6~0-2.1r9tfhG2frDU2 2.29 0. 79 1.57 0.90 %os- n 9 s lill:ll{pOO!) I0-800-3'3: %I£ 9Z 8 1I A'.OJ.ieH w-svo-3::::> 696L '9 A \fiN \\' ... - .;: l!O!f ... ~ • e 2/ 0-50-0-0-50 3.50 51 0-60-40-0-0 2.40 141 13-53-0-13-13 2.57 1.29 14/ 7-40-D-13-33 3.29 1.48 16/ 13-63-6-Q-19 2.50 1.28 15/ 19•50-6-6-13 2.40 1.25 16/ 25-31-13-6-25 2.75 1.52 12/ 25-8-17-25-25 3.17 1.52 131 38-31-8-15-8 2.23 1.31 14/ 6-31-25-6-19 3.00 1.25 121 0-25-17-17-42 3.75 1.23 6/ 17-33-17-0-33 3.00 1.53 71 0-14-43-14-29 3.57 1.05 8/ 0-13-25-50-13 3.63 0.86 7/14-43-0-14•29 3.00 1.51 12/ 0-15-23-38-15 3.58 0.95 101 20-40-0-20-20 2.80 1.47 5/ D-67-17-0-0 2.20 0.40 4/ 0-0-0-80-0 4.00 31 0-33-0-D-67 4.00 9( 10-0-~0-30-40 4.00 1.25 8/ 3 3-44-0-11-0 1.88 0.93 11/18-45-0,.27-9 2.64 1.30 9133-33-11-0-22 2.44 1.50 10/17-42~8·0-17 2.50 1,.36 61 o-4 3-0--14-29 · 3.33 .. i..31 ;,_ if; IIi> ., 21 0-0-0-5(}.50 88 5/ 0-0-40-20-40 75 14/ 27-7-13-33-13 50 1.46 15/ 13-21-13-33~13 52 1.29 16/ 0-0•13-25·63 88 0.71 16113-19-19-31-19 56 1.30 16/ 0-19-59-25 72 0.99 12/25-17-33-17-8 42 1.25 131 54-15-23-8-0 21 1.02 15/ 0-6-13-31-44 80 0.91 11/0-8-17-25-42 77 0.99 6/17-33-33-0-17 42 1.25 7/ 0-29-20-43~0 54 0.83 8/13•(}.38-25-25 63 1.22 110-14-29-57-0 61 0.73 131 0-31-38-23-8 52 0.92 101 30-10-10•20-30 53 1.64 5/ 0-0-D-67-17 80 0.40 5/ 60-20-0-20-0 20 31 0-33-D-67.-0 58 9/30-10-40-10-0 33 1.05 9111-22-33-22-11 50 1.15 111 18-18·36-18-9 46 1.19 - 8/ 11-33-22-11-11 44 1.20 11{8•0-17-33~33 . ::73 L17 . . .... 6/,Q-~4-29-29-l:J ·C . 1 ' '63 -{),96 'I•'. 3/ 0-3:.3-0-33-33- ' ' 3/ 0-:~~~13-0 3.67 ' \ · .,!' ,._ ;, '58 :•r .; ;p-~ 1 P'\ .J- -r 381 2!:r;l~·}~l6-21. ·,l,._)I:37y H-9 ... 33-2Ft2 .. 2.9.jl, ·.f1.$)Jr 1 J .. ;·~- ,, Sfr·• 1.19 2.4/ ~~~t. ·.;'~C =·--~;,;:. :·, ,11/ M.S-11-S~ . '!.ff\: ' .~:> 1 ' ' ' Rb O..M f!J: t fii/?~!Ol ~.. i.L ' ~ I • •l 14/ D-40-13'~7Ltr P''ru~: .. · 1c4t6/i0-33:33-7 '· 3.36 1.34 PP r>;,·:~n·sf 0.88 ~

\ ...... , ·' £;)\{).)• ,·. 1.88 0.60 U\QO\ J.J\U\U 2.13 0.33 .GJ\.J\1\ 1. ..J• J..:>•u 2.13 0.93 3.25 0.183 EGR-050-01 9/ 56-44-0-0-0 '1'.44 0.49 9/ 89-11-0-0-0 9/ 67-33-0-0-0 1.11 o.n 1.33 o.4 1 9/ ().Q. 22-6 '1·11 3.89 0.57 EGR-051..01 7/71-29-0-0-0 1.29 0.45 1 I 85-14-0-0-0 . 1.14 0.35 11 11-0-0-14-14 \2.00 1.60 7/14-14-29-14-29 3.29 1.38 ' .... \... ..... .... . .,_ \' ~ '\' ..... ;- , I\ , ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. , CE-043-01 11 38-38-13-0-0 8/ 63-38-0-0-0 1.71 0.70 1.38 0.48 8/25-38-25-13-0 2.25 0.97 8/ 0-ZS-13-S0-13 ' :}.50 1.00 EE-088-0l Ol D-D-O·D-0· Z/ 17-17-Q-Q-0 \'*** l.SQ-0,50 1/ 0-0-17-Q-0 3.QO 0.00 Ol 0-0-0-0-0 \'*** EE-031-01 15/33-40-13-7-7 151 13-13-33-20-20 15/ Q-20-13-33-33 15/ 0-20-40-33-7 2.13 1.15 3.20 1.28 3.80 1.11 3.27 0.85 EE-032-01 11/ 67-25-0-0-0 111 92-0-0-0-0 1.27 0.45 1.00 0.00 11/ 58-25-&-0-0 1.45 0.66 12/ 8-25-17-33-17 3.25 1.23 EE-032-02 10/40-50-0-iO-O 10/10-60-20·10-0 10/ 30-60-10-0-0 10/ Q-10-30-60..01 1.80 0.87 2.30 0.78 1.80 0.60 3.50 0.67 EE-041-01 9/ 56-22-22-0-0 9/22·2244•11·0 8/11•53•11•11•22 9/ Q-U-ll-78-0 1.67 0.82 2.44 0.95 3.00 1.41 :},67 (),67 EE-044-01 11/45-36-9·0·9 111 55-18-18-0-9 1110-0-18-36-45 11/18-36-36-9~01 1.19 1.17 1.91 1.24 4.27 0,75 2.36 0.881 ..,, -''I \'. '\' Y' \' 1.63 0.49 9/ 44-33-22..().0 1.78 0.79 5/ 14-14-43..()-0 2.40 0.80 ·~ ~ ,.. ,. 7/ ()..50-13-0-25 3.00 l.31 o I o-o-o-o.o. **** 15/60-33-0-7-0 1.53 0.81 12/ 50-33-17-0-0 1.67 0.75 101 70-20-0-10-0 L5o o.n 9/11-78-H-<H> 2.00 0.47 11/945-Q-~7.18- 3.00 1.~s 2.63 0.86 8/ 22-67-0-0-0 1.75 0.44 7143-43-0-14-0 1.86 0.99 ,.., .... '~ r ...,.. , 7/38-50.0.0-0 1.57 0.49 01 o..o.o-o-o *\'\'* 14/13-27-7-27-20 3.14 1.41 11/ 58-33-0-o-0 1.36 0.48 10/20-60-20-Q-0 2.00 0,63 8/ ~56-0-11-22 3.00 1.32 11/9-45-lB..Q-27 2.91 1.38 ME-043-01 R/75·25-o-0-0 81 100-Q-0..0-Q 8/ 88-13-0..Q-0 Sf 0-25-25-50..0 8/ 38-50-13-Q-0 8/75-13-0-13-0 1.25 0.44 1.00 0.00 1.13 0.33 3!.25 0.83 1.75 0,66 1.50 1.00 Lc-.b Se~tion•, CHM·012·03 Sowa CHM-Ql2-Q4 Weick CHM-030.01 Sowa CHM-031-01 Maycock CHM-031·02 W. Martin CHM-031-03 W. Martin CHM·O~l-04 Maycock CHM-034·01 Schaefer CHM-036-03 J. Daniels CHM-048-02 Weick Continu•cl L ll 15 73% L 10 18 56% L 14 19 74%! . 1' L 15 2f 65% L 9 21 43% L 9 18 50% L 6 16 38% L S 8 63% L 7 10 70% L 3 4 75% QVf:S, ~ 11/ 27-36-0-18-1:8 2.64 1A9 10/ 20-10-20-50-0 3.00 1.!.8 14/ 36-57-0-1-0 1.79 0.77 151 7-47~7-33-7 2.87 l.lS 9/11-67..()-22-0 2,33 0.941 9f 11-78-0-11-0 2.11 0.731 61 51()-33-17.()..0 1.67 0.?51 5 f !j'(),. 20-0-0-0 1.4Q 7/4~·43-()..14-0 1.66 0.9!ll 3/33-33-0-33-0 2.33 QUES. 2 11/ 18-36-0-18-27 3.00 1.54 10/ 0-30-20-30-20 1.40 1.11 14/ 14-36-43-0-7 2.50 0.98 15/ Q-40-13-47-0 3.07 0.93 9/ 22-56..()-22-0 2.72 J.03 8/ 22·56·11-0-0 1.88 0.60 6/17-67-0-17-0 2.17 0,90 4/ 80-0i).()-0 l.Ofl 7/57-29-0-14-0 1.71 1,03 3/ 33-33·0-33-0 2.33 QtJES. 3 11/ 0.73-9-9-9 2.55 0.98 10/ <U0-20-10-10 2.70 1.00 14/ Q-93-7-0..0 2.07 0.24 15/ Q-93-0-0-7 2,20 0.75 9/0-78-11-0-11 2.44 0.95 8/ 0-78-0-0-11 2.38 0.99 6/ 0-100-0-0-0 2.00 0.00 5/0-40-40-20-0 2.8.0 7/ 04~-Q-14-43 'J,$7 1.4-Q 3/ 0-67-33-0-0 2,33 ! . • ~ 1./ 0.50.50-Q.O 2,50 . GC:0-012-01 Whitney· 'rHY·Oll-01 Grunwald PHY-011·02 W. Schwarz PHY-011·03 Hooverman PHY-011-04 Jones PHY-011-05 C. Swartz PHY-015-01 Goble PHY•O:J3•0l Wyltm CE-043-01 Harlow EE-032-02 Hoffman L 2 4SO% L p 1.~ 58% L 11 16 69% L 12 20 60% L 10 18 56% L 7 13 54% L 2 2 100% L 7 10 7Q% L 7 26 27% L 7 11 ~4% . 21 100..0..0-0-0 • 1.00 . . HI 9-55-9-9-18 2.73 1.28 11/27-64-Q-9-0 1.91 0.7~ . 12/17-42..()-25-17 2.83 1.4(1) 10/10-10-10-1(1)..0 2,50 1.02 7/ 0-4~-14-43..() 3.00 0.93 2/ 5().50-Q-0-0 '' l.SQ 7/14-43..()-43-0 2.71 1.16 61 0-57-0-29--0 2.67 0.94 7/ 57-~9-~4-0~ 1..57 0.73 2/50-50-0-0-Q 1.50 11/ 45-36-0.0-19 2.09 1.44 11/ 27-73.()..().0 1.73 0.45 12/ ~5-58-0-8-8 2.17 1.14 10/ 4().,60.()-U-0 1.60 0,49 7/14-71-()..14.-0 2.14 0.83 2/1 0()-Q-0-0-0 l.OO 1/ 2!:>.29-29-14-{) 2.29 1.03 6/ 29-57-().,Q-0 1.67 D.47 7/43-57;.o.()·O l.S7 0.49 11/ 9-64-18-9..0 2.27 0.75 1 Ol 18-45-18-0-9 2.30 1.10 12/ 0-33-25-25-17 3.25 1.09 9/ 0-70-10-0-10 2.44 0.95 7/ 29-29-14-14-14 2.57 1.40 2/ 0-100-0-Q..O 2.00 7/ ()..57-4~-0-0 2.4~ 0.49 6/ 0-29-41-0-14 3.QO 1.00 7 I tt-1 oo-o-o-o z.oo 0.00 . 2.63 1.22 9/44--22-n-u-o 2.00 1.05 1143-14-14-19-0 2.29 1.28 '1111. '<.. ,_ r'· ,. I\ 8/13-75·0-13-0 2.13 0.78 oJ o-o-o-o-o \'\'\'* 151 7-0-13-27-53 4.20 1.11 12/ 50-42-8-0-0 1.58 0.64 10/ 0-40-50-0-10 2.80 0.87 9/ 0-11-33-33-22 3.67 0.94 11/ Q-9-0-18-73. 4.55 o:89 8/63-25-13-0-0 1.50 0.71 QUES.4 11/ 0-18-18-45-18 3.64 0.98 10/ 0-30-60.10-0 ~80 0.60 14/14-36-50-0-0 - 2.36 0.72 15/27-33-27-7-7 2.33 1.14 91 11-67-n-o-o 2.11 0.57· 8/ 0-44-44-Q.-0 2.50 0.50 6/ 0-50-33-17-0 2.67 0.75 5/ Ch0-40-Q ().{) 3.60 7/ 0..0-2943·29 4.00 0,75 3/ 0-33-33·33-0 3.00 21 0-100-0-()..() 2.00 11/ 27-1&.1&.27-9 2.73 1.35 11/ 27-36-36-0-0 2.09 0.79 111 17-25-8-33·8 2.91 1.31 10/ 20-40-40-0..0 2.2{) 0.75 7/ 29-14-4$-14-0 2.43 1.05 2/ 0-0-100-0-0 3.00 7/ 14-0-43-4~-0 3.14 0.99 6/14-14-43-14-0 2.67 0.94 7/ 14-29-5 7.;()-0 2.43 ().n 2.13 9.78 9/22-67-11-Q-0 1.39 0.57 7/ $7·29-14-0-0 1.57 0.73 ~ .... ,. ~ 7/13· 1 5-o-o-o 1.66 0.35 0- 0-Q-0,.0-0 :!:\'*\' 15/ Q-27-33-13-27 3.40 1.14 11/ 50-25-17-0-0 1.64 0.77 10/ 10-70-20-0-0 2.10 0.54 9/ 0-33-44-22-0 2.89 0.73 11/ 0-18-0-36-45 4.09 1.09 8/ 88-13-0-0-0· 1.13 0.33 QU£S. 5 9/ 9-()..64-9-0 2.89 0.73 101 30-50-20-0-0 1.90 0.70 14/ 1 00-0-0-0-0 1.00 0.00 151 o-21-n::o.o 2.73 0.44 9/ 0-67-33-0-0 2.33 0.47 9/ 22-3344-0-0 2.22 0.79 6/ 0-50-50-0-0 2.50 0.50 5/ 60-0.Q-40-0 2.~0 111 oo.o-o-o-o 1,60 O.QO 3 I 1 0().0-0-o-o 1.00 21 50.0-50-0-0 2.00 11/ 91·9·0.0.0 1.09 0.28 10/64-18-9-0-0 1.40 0.66 11/17-42-25-8-0 2.27 0.86 9/ 90•0.0.0•0 1.00 o.oo 6/ 71-D-0-0-14 1.67 1.49 2/1 01)..0-0-Q-0 1.00 1 I 86-14-0-0..0 1.14 0_35 6/ 71-Q-14-0-0 1.33 0.75 '7/1 oo-o-o-o-o 1.00 0.00 1.88 0.33 9/ 0-78·11·0.11 2.44 0.95 71 0:86-0-0-14 Z.43 1.0~ ~ ._> \ \ 7/38-50-Q-0-0 1.57 0.49 2/ 33-0-0-0-0 1.00 0.00 15/ 7-27-53-7-7 2.80 0.91 12/ 25-7 ~Q-0-0 1.75 0.44 1 0/0-100-0-Q-0 2.00 0.00 9/11-56-33-0-0 2.22 0.63 11/ 0-45-55-Q-0 2.55 0.50 8/13-8 8-0-0-0 1.88 0.33 QUES. 6 11/ 45-18-18-0-18 2.27 1.48 101 10-10·60-10·10 3.00 1.00 14/14-14-50·21-0 2.79 0.94 15/7-73-13-7-0 2.20 0.66 91 Q-56-44-Q-0 ~.44 0.49 9/33-44-22-Q-0 1.89 0.73 .. - 6/ 17-33-33-17-0 2.50 0.96 5/ 0-40-40r20-0 2.80 7/ Q.Orl}-57-43 4.43 0.49 3/ Q-0,.0..33·67 4.67 211 oo-o-o-p-o 1.00 11/9·9·18·fl·55 3.91 1.38 11/ 9-9-36-9 3.27 1.05 12/ 0-0-25-50-25 4.00 0.71 10/ Oo0.3(}(j(J.10 3.80 0.60 7/ 14-0-0-29-57 4.14 1.36 2/ Q-Q-50-50-0 3.50 7/ 14-14-43-29·0 2.86 0.99 61 14-0.0-43-29 3.83 1.35 1 I 0-0..86-14-0 3.14 0.35 ., 3.13 0.33 2.13 0.33 9/ D-22·78·0.0 9/11·44-33-11-Q 2.78 (,).41 2.44 0.83 7/ ()..0-100-0-0 7/ 0-14-57-29-0 3.00 0.00 3.14 0.64 .. , ~ . ...-. <.; .... '- , ,. .,. \\' \\ \\' MAY 6.1969 ~ .. 71 13'-3&-38-0-0 2.29 0.70 2/ Q-0- 3 3-0-0 3.00 0.00 15/ 0-20.80-0-0 2.80 0.40 12/17-25-58-Q-0 2.4i 0.76 10/ 0-30-70-0-0 2.70 0.46 9/ ~11-89-0-0 2.89 0.32 11/ 0-18-82cQ..O 2.82 0.39 8/ Q-38-63-0-0 2.63 0.49 QUES. 7 11/ 45-36-D-9-9 2.00 1.28 10/ 50-50·0•0·0 1.50 0.50 141 79-21-0·0-0 1.21 0.40 15/ 93-0-0-7-0 1.20 . 0.75 · 9/78-22.o-o..o· 1.22 0.41 8/78-11-0-0-0 1.13 0.33 6/10()-0-0-0-0 1.00 0.00 51 60.20·20.0·0 1.()0 7/14-43-Z9-14-0 2.43 0.90 3/ 67-33-Q-(}.0 1.33 2/ 1 00·0·0-0·0 1.00 11/ 64--18-0.9·9 1.82 1.33 8/ Z5-13-5~13-o 2.50 1.00 1/ 0-0-0-0-17 5.00 0.00 151 7-73·2()..0-0 2.13 0.50 12/ 0-83-8-8-0 2.25 0,59 101 0-80-10-10-0 2.30 0.64 9/ 0-33-56-11.0 2.78 ().63 10/ 0-73-18-0-0 2.20 0.40 8/ 0-13-88-Q-0 . 2.88 0,33 QUES. 8 11/55·36-0·0-9 1.73 1.14 10/ 50-40-10.0-0 1.60 0.66 14/79-21-0-0-0 1.21 0.40 15/ 93-7-0-0-0 1.07 0.24 91 100-0-0-0-0 1.00 0.00 8/ 67-11-0-11·0 LSO 1.00 6/100-0-Q-Q-0 1.00 o.oo 5/100·0.0·0·0 1.00 7/ 57-29-14-0-0 l.57 0.73 3/ 33-33-33-0-0 2.00 21 o-1 oo-o-o-o 2.00 11/64·18·18·0-0 1.55 0.78 :;crr.q- e;rc· 11/ 45-36-9-9-(}'' ; ': 'jG lf'%1,/27-27-27-9-9 1.82 0.93 \:G!M:j 2.45 1.23 •• liJ lll. 12/ 8-50-8-25-8 1 1 d!Gq l 12/ 0-50-25-0-25 2.75 '· 1.16' H M!•; 3.00 1..22 10/ 30.50•10.Io!'O'T~. 101 30·50·20.,0-;'(i 200 o:s:~:1c 1.90 o:1o 7/ 14-14-71-0-0' 2.57 0.73 2/ 1 00·0-Q-0-0 1.00 'I 7/ 57-14-29-0-0 1.71 0.88 . 2/ 50-50-0-0-0 1.50 . J 7/29-29-29-14-0 2.:29 1.03 7/14-43-14-29..0 . 2.57 .. i.o5 1 71 71-14-14-1)..0 6l71-14-0-0-{) ' 1.43 0.73 1.17 0.37 7/ 86-14-0rP-0 I I ,,,- {i~ n~i4-019-0 1.' 1.14 0.35 1.17 0.37 1._ ; .... 3.38 1.41 8/ ().67-11-0-11 2.50 1.00 7/ ();.86-0-0-14 2.43 1.05 ,_ ... ~--:>.<':~· ----- ¢> \\ 81 Q-38-25-0-38 3.38 1.32 1/ 0·0-0-0-17 5.00 0.00 15/20-i0-27·33·0 2.73 1.12 12/ 0-67-8-8-17 2.75 1.16 9/ 20-40-Q-1 o- 20 2.67 1.49 9/ 0-22-22-11-44 3. 78 1.23 111 64-9-0-27-0 1.91 1.31 8/ 0-7 5-0-o-25 2. 75 1.30 - - - . - QUE$, 9 11/ 4.5-36-9-o-9 1.91 1.17 10/40-50-0-0-10 1.90 1,14 14/14-50-21-7-7 2.43 1.05 15/20-27-7-33-13 2.93 1.39 9/ 22-33-11-33-0 2.56 1.16 8/33-33-0-11-11 2.25 1.39 6/33-0-0-50-17 3.17 1.57 5/60·0·20•2D-O 2.00 7/ 0-29-14-43-14 3.43 1.05 2/ 0-33-33-0-0 2.50 2/ 0-1 00-0-0·0 2.00 10/ 55.36-0-Q..(J 1.40 0.49 10/27-55-9-0-0 1.80 0.60 12/ 0-42-8-42-8 3.17 1.07 ltl/ 20.40.10-30-0 2.50 1.12 6/ 0-57-29-0-0 2.33 0.47 21 50-50-0-0-0 1.50 7/14-71-0-14\0 2.14 0.83 6/14-29-14-14-14 2.S3 1.35 7 I 29-71-0-0-0 1.71 0.45 '- .#. 9 I 0-11-0-44-44 81 0.92 7/14-0-29-29-29 64 1.29 IN .. ~ ~ PAGE L-16 8/ 0-0-13-63-25 78 0.60 21 17-Q-0-17-0 38 1.50 14/7-53-13-13-7 39 1.05 121 17-8\0-42-33 67 1.44 10/ 10-20-20-50·0 53 1.04 9/ 0-33-H-56-0 56 0.9:2 11/ 64-9-18·9-0 18 1.05 8/ 13-0-0-0-88 88 1.32 QUES. 10 11/ 27-0-d-18-55 68 1. 71 10/ D-20-30.10-40 68 l.l9 14/ 7-7-0-43·43 77 1.16 141 7-13-27-27-20 61 1.17 91 11-11-0-44-33 70 1.32 8/ 11-11-11-33-22 63 1.32. 6/ Q.O-Q-33-67 92 0.47 5/ 20\0-0-40-40 70 7/ 14-14-57-0-14 47 1.13 21 0-0-6 7-0-0 50 2/ Q-0-Q-50-50 88 10/ 18·18·27-18·9 45 1.25 101 ~18-36-9-27 63 1.12 12/33-17-33-17-0 33 1.10 10/10-10-30.40-10 58 1.10 7/0-57-43-0-0 36 0.49 2/ 0-0-0-50-50 88 7/ Q-43-14-14·29 57 1.28 6/14-0-14-43-14 63 1.26 7 I 0-29-14-14-43 68 1.28 .,;: \\·

THE UNION COLLEGE COURSE EVALUATION MAY 6, 1~69 PAGE L·11 Question #12-24 12. The instructor was eager to give help to the student outside of the classroom. 13, The instructor had a broad and thorough knowledge of the course material. 21. Considering the design of the course, Oectu~, recitation, seminar, lab ... ), would you say the class was: (I ) too l!Jrge. 24. If you. were to rate the best course that you have ever taken as 100, and the worst course as 0, how would you rate this course? 14. Student's questions were handled well; the instructor made sure that the student understood material that he did not previously grasp. (2) large but functional. (3) of desirable size. (1) 0 to 20 (2) 21 to 40 (4) small but functional. (5) too smalL (3) 41 to 60 15. The instructor generally expected too much from the student.. (4) 61 to 80 22. What kind of exam preparation was necessary? (1) Memorization. (5) 81 to 100 16. The re.ading materii!.l ·used had much relevance to the objectives of the course. 17. It was easy to take notes in class. 18. Gasses have maintained the student's interest in the course. (2) Interpretation (analysis). (3) Both memory and analysis. (4) Synthesis. (5) No exams were given. 19. Class discussion and/er·· lecture aided definition and synthesis of course material. 23. For the amount of work that you put into the course, how much did you get out of it? 20 .. How necessary was class attendance? (l) Attendance required for grade. (I) You put too much work in and got very little out of the ·course. (2) Attendance not required but helpful for course understanding. (2) You put a lot of work in and got much out of the course. (3)'•Attendartce not help-ful. (4) Attendance required for grade but not helpful for course. (5} No opinion. (3) You put a little work in and got a lot out of the course. (4) You put in little work and got little out of the course. (5) You put in an average amount of work and derived the same amount. COURSE Bl0·012·01 BI0-04I·OI BI0-040-01 BI0-049-0I BIO·OS4·1 CHM-010-01 CHM·OI0-02 CHM012-01 CHM-012-02 CHM-01\2-03 CHM~030-0l CHM-031-01 CHM-031-02 CHM~034·01 ciiM-03()-o 1 . ' ' CHM-'048·0 1 CHM·01~01 CHM-012·01 \' ~ QUES12 QUES 13 QUES 14 QUES IS 43/ 2-27-44-13-9 45/ 38·36-13-13·0 44/4-27-36-18-13 451 4-16·2942·9 3.00 0.94 2.02 1.02 3.09 1.09 3.36 0.99 IS/ 38-44·6-6-0 16/ 100-0-0-0·0 16/ 81-19-9-9-9 15/ 6·6-6-63-13 1.80 0.83 1.00 0.00 1.19 0.40 3.73 0.99 10/ 30-40-0-20·10 9/50-20-0-0 10/20·30·10·30·10 10/ 10-20-3.()..20-20 2.40 1.35 1.67 0.82 2.80 1.33 3.20 1.25 5/40-20-20-20-0 5/ 100-().0-0-0 5/ 20-40-0-40-0 5/ 0-0-20-8{)..0 2.20 1.00 2.60 3.80 28/2I-38·34·3·0 29/ 83-17·0·0·0 271 34·52-3·3-0 28/ Q..I0..3·62·21 2.21 0.81 1.17 0.37 1.74 0.70 3.96 0.82 161 63·25·0·0-13 I61 81-13-6-0-0 16/ 38-3I·6·13·13 161 6·25-31-31-6 1.75 1.30 1.25 0.56 2.31 I.40 3.06 1.03 ' 13/ 29-57-7-0-0 I3/ 50-43-0·0-0 131 36·43-7-7-0 13/ 0-0-I4-43-36 l. 77 0.57 1.46 0.50 1.85 0.86 4.23 0.69 15/75-13-6-0-0 14/56·19-13·0-0 14/50-25-6-6-0 14/0-0-25-38-25 1.27 0.57 .. 1.5Q 0. 73 1.64 0.89 4.00 0. 7 s 14/ b-47-2Q..Q..l3 141 33-33-7-0-20 14/ 7-47·7-0·33 141 7-20-27~27-13 2.50 1.18 2.36 1.49 3.07 1.48 3.21 1.14 16/44-44-13-0-0 16/ 88-6-0-6-0 I61 44-3I-19-6·0 16/6-25-19!-44-6 1.69 0.69 1.25 0.75 1.88 0.93 3.19 1.08 14/71-21-7-0·0 13/ 71-21-0·0-0 14/ 64·36·0-0-0 14/7-14-14-57-7 1.36 0.6I 1.23 0.41 1.36 0.48 3.43 1.05 18/ 89-6·0..6-0 18/83-17-0-0-0 18133-50-11-6-0 I7/ 0-39·17-17-22 1.22 0.71 1.17 0.37 1.89 0.81 3.24 1.22 22/74-9-13·0·0 ,. 23/96-4~'0·0-0 22/ 78-9·0·9·0 2I/17-26-13-26-9 1.36 0.71 1.04 0.20 1.36 0.88 2.81 1.30 87'7 5tl3-13-0-o · ; 81 1 oo.o.o.o-o 1.38 0.69 1.00 0.00 '• 15/ 53·20-20·7-0- . 15/ 7-67-1-20-0 1.80 0.98 2.40 0.88 5/40-40·0-20·0 . 5/ 40~20·40-Q..O 2.00 2.00 :>.·. 25/41-31-7-0-7 25/66~17-2-0·0 1.84 1.12 1.28 0.53 421 42-40·14·0·2 41/ 8I·5-5-2-2 1.79 0.86 1.32 0.87 .- - ~ ...._ \W 7 I 7 5-13·0-o-o 1.14 0.35 15/13·13·7·60·7 3.33 1.19 5/ 20-40·0-40-0 2.60 27/28-45·7·10·3 2.11 1.06 4I/47·26-I6·2-5 1.88 1.09 .... ... ..... 81 0-38-25-38·0 3.00 0.87 15/ 0-7-33-60..0 3.53 0.62 5/ 0-20-0-6(i)-20 3.80 26/ o..i0-3l-38-10 3.54 o.84 401 2-23-191·37-12 3.35 1.06 QUES 16 451 51-36-4-4-4 1. 76 1.04 I51 25·50-6·13-0 2.07 0.93 9/ 40-40-10-0-0 1.67 0.67 5/ 80-0-20-0-0 1.40 281 24·41-7-2I-3 2.36 1.17 151 50-25-19·0·0 1.67 0.79 14/ 29-64-0-7-0 1.86 0.74 14 I 19-44-19-0-6 2.21 1.01 131 20-13-20-13-20 3.00 1.47 ·- I61 25·31-6-19-19 2.75 1.48 141 50-43·7-0-0 1.57 0.62 18/ 61-28-6-6·0 1.56 0.83 231 70-17~9-4-0 1.48 0.82 81 7 5- 25-0·0-0 1.25 0.44 15/ 4 7-40.. 7\7·0 1.73 0.85 51 0-0-20-40-40 4.20 26/ 34-45-7-3-0 1.77 0.75 41126-28-14-12-16 2.63 1.43 QUES 17 451 16-18-4·40-22 3.36 1.40 15/ 44-38·6·6-0 1.73 0.85 10/ 10-30-10..50-0 3.00 1.10 51 40-60-0-0-0 1.60 281 14-55-3-21-3 2.43 1.08 161 44-31-6-19·0 2.00 1.12 13/ 14-36·36-7·0 2.38 0.83 161 19-50-I3-13-6 2.38 l.U 14/ 0-33-27-7-27 3.29 1.22 I61 50-25-I9-6-0 1.81 . 0.95 141 43-36-7-7-7 2.00 1.20 181 17-33·6·39·6 2.83 1.26 231 17-48-13-13-9 2.48 1.17 81 25·63·0-13·0 2.00 0.87 15/ 53-47-0..0..() 1.47 0.50 5/ 40-40-20-0-0 1.80 27/41-34-10-7-0 1.81 0.91 411 30-49·12·2·2 1.93 0.87 .-..? QUES 18 42/ 11-13·20·20·29 3.45 1.36 16/ 69·3I-0-0-0 1.31 0.47 10/ 20-50-20-10-0 2.20 0.87 5/ 0-40-60-0-0 2.60 29/24-45-17-10-3 2.24 1.04 16/13-50-6-25-6 1.63 1.17 I4/14-S0~29-7~0 2.29 0.79 13/13-44·13-13-0 2.31 0.9I 14/ 0-13-13-33-33 3.93 1.03 16/I9·56·13·0-13 2.31 1.16 14/ 21-50·7-21-0 2.29 1.03 I7/17·22·6-39-11 3.06 1.35 . 22/17-30-22-I?-9 2.68 1.22 81 3 8·6 3·0·0·0 1.63 0.49 15/13-33-7-33-13 3.00 1.32 51 40-20-20-0-20 2.40 .. 27/14-38-14-24·3 2.63 1.13 401 23·35-14·12-9 2.45 1.26 ~ ..... • (,. QUESI9 45/9·44·18·13-16 2.28 1.23 16/50-44·6-0-0 1.56 0.6I 9/ 40-30·10·10-0 1.89 0.99 5/ 20-60-20-0-0 2.00 29/38-4I-7-7-7 2.03 1.16 16/I3-63-13-6·6 2.31 0.98 13/ 14·64·7·7-0 2.08 0.73 15/31~50·0-13·0 1.93 0.93 131 7-27-13-13-27 3.31 1.38 16/ 38-56-6-0·0 1.69 0.58 14/ 36·36·29·0·0 1.93 0.79 I8/22·39-1H7·6 2.44 1.16 231 39·48-9·4·0 1.78 0.78 QUES 20 45/4-62-22-7-4 2.44 0.85 16/ 13-88-0-0-0 1.88 0.33 10/ 40.50-0-IQ..O 1.80 0.87 5 I 0·100-o-o-o 2.00 29/ 14-86-0-0-0 1.86 0.35 I5/ 38-56-o-o-o 1.60 0.49 I2/ 0-71-7-0-7 2.33 0.85 16/ 13·75·13·0-0 :too o.so 14/ 0.53-27-0-13 2.71 1.03 16 I I9-6 9-6-0.6 2.06 0.90 14/ 7•93-0-Q.O 1.93 0.24 181 22-56·22-().,0 2.00 0.66 22/ 9-7 4-13-0.0 2.0S 0.47 8/75-0-25·0·0 . 8/ 0-I00-0-0-0 1.50 0.87 2.00 0.00 15/27-47-7-20-0 15/40.60-0-0-0 2.20 1.04 1.60 0.49 5/ 40-20·20·0·20 2.40 26/ 21-45-17-:3-3 2.15 0.95 39/ 35-40.9·5·2 1.90 0.95 '·' 5/ 0-80-0-20-0 2.40 26/34-45·3·3·3 1.85 0.95 4I/ I9-67-2-2-5 2.02 0.87 t: ... ; ~ ...... I· description holds for all questions with a minor exception. The mean for question twenty-four, the course rating, is actually a numerical course rating, based on the mean of the response applied to a 0-100 scale. One will notice that independent studies are excluded as are courses with minimal or zero response. They ortly take up space since one or two answers have ho mearting, The full report that was made available in the library last year, will a:gain be put there in the near future. It will include the statistical data printed here, as well as some corrolation of interest such as the grade received versus cumulative index, grade received versus grade expected, etc. QUES 21 45/. 56•38·4-0-2 1.~6 0.77 16/ 0-19-69-13-0 2.94 0.56 10/ 20-30-50-0-0 2.30 0.78 5/ 0-0-100·0-0 3.00 29/ 4I-55-3-0-0 1.62 0.55 I61 19-44-38-0-0 2.19 0.73 I4/ 36·21·36·7·0 2.14 0.99 16/ 6-25-56-13-0 2.75 0.7S 14/13-7-60-0-13 2.9.3 1.10 16/ 13-31-56-0-0 2.44 0.70 I41 0-I4-86-0-0 2.86 0.35 I I7/ 39-50-6-0-0 1.65 0.58 23/ 9-70-22·0..0 2.13 0.54 8/ 0-13-75-13-0 3.00 o,so 15/ 27-53-20-Q..(} 1.93 0.68 51 0-0-I00-0-0 3.00 26/10-52-28-()..0 2.19 0.62 41/ 9-58-23-2-2 2.27 0)6 -.::: QUES 22 44/ 53-4-36·4·0 1.91 1.04 16/6-13-75-6-0 2.81 0.64 101 0-40-30-3().,0 2.90 0.83 5/ 0-20-80-0-0 2.80 29/ 10-10-76·3·0 2.72 0.69 16/ 6-0-88-0-6 3.00 0.71 14/ 0-7-86·0-7 3.07 0.59 15/ 0-6-50-19-19 3.53 0.88 14/7-7-60-0-20 3.21 1.08 16/ 13-0-88-0-0 2.75 0.66 14/ 7-7-71-I4-0 2.93 0.70 18/72-6-22-0-0 1.50 0.83 23/26-0-61-13-0 2.61 1.01 8/ 0-5D-50-0-0 2.50 0.50 15/ 3:3-13·53-0-0 2.20 0.91 51 0-20-80·0-0 2.80 26/ 7-3·76-l·O 2.85 0.60 41/7-5-77\0-7 2.95 0.79 .. , QUES 23 QUES 24 451 13-44·7·20·16 44/ 13·20-16-38-11 2.80 1.33 54 1.25 15/ 0-63-19-0-13 15/ 6-0-0-0·88 2.60 1.02 93 0.99 9/10-6D-0-10-10 10/10-10-10-20-SO 2.44 1.16 73 1.37 5/ 0-40-40-0·20 5/ 20·0-40-20·20 3.00 55 29/ .7-4I-24-3-24 29/ 0-3-17-48-3I 2.97 1.30 77 o. 78 15/ 19-38-19-0-I9 -;; 16/I3-6-19-56-6 2.60 1.36 60 1.11 1:' 14/ 7·36·36~14-7 14/7·0-36~29-29 2.79 1.01 68 1.10 16/ 0-5D-19-13-19 15{ ~13-19-38-25 3.00 1.17 76 0.98 12/ 20-27-7-7-20 14] 13·7-33-13-27 2.75 1.53 -- . 59 1.34 16/ 13-50-13-0-25 I61 0-6-31-25-38 2.75 1.39 74 0.96 14/ 7\71·0-7-14 14/7\7-7-50-29 2.50 1.18 72 1.13 18/28-33-6-17-17 18117-11-22-33-17 2.61 1.46 56 1.32 . il: 231 26-4~0}•M2 23/ 22·9-22-22-26 2.48 1.47 56 1.47 8/ 0-75-0-0-25 2.75 1.30 15/ 13-33-7-13-33 3.20 1.51 5/ 2()-40-0·20·20 2.80 25/14·31-24-3-14 2.68 1.26 411 7-44-16-2-26 2.95 1.36 8/ 0-0-50-5{) 88 0.50 15/ 0-13-47-40-0 57 0.68 5/ 0-0-60-20·20 2.80 26/7-3-24-41-14 65 1.04 40/2-12-19•30-30 10 1.10 ' • ~J

~ The Union College Course Evaluation By DICK DANIEL ar.d BOB SALTZMAN Printed on these pages is the third part of the winter term course evaluation report. Center II courses appear today while past supplements have contained those for Center I. This report is a straight statistical analysis of the data collected from Union students during registration. As one will notice from the data, the response varied widely between . courses. Therefore, there is no good measure of an overall response. Because of the generally low response, no attempt will be made by the evaluation editors to interpret the data such as the publication Linebacker has done in the past. The student or faculty member s h o ul d m a k e h i s ow n determinations from the data. Courses with seventy per cent response out of an enrollment of twenty or better will probably yield some very meaningful information. Courses with response between fifty and seventy-five per cent should be analyzed very carefully. Anything below fifty per cent should generally be considered meaningless. The only possible exception might be courses with extremely high enrollment. When the course evruuation was started, a chief use of it was thought to be as a guide for students planning a curriculum. A student should be warned against dismissing a course or professor if fifty per cent of twenty students enrolled considered either a disaster. . AU . cour!:es .. are . identified by their numerical code. Reading across we find the name of the professor who taught the course (in fact. this information may have been changed without our knowledge) and that it was a recitation section (R-resitation, X-lecture, P-project, L-lab, S-seminar). The next two numbers tell one how many of the enrolled students reported, and the percentage of response. Twenty-four columns of numbers follow; one for each question. The actual questions are printed at the top of the page. Questions No. 1·11 appear on this page, questions No. 12-24, and the responses, appear on the back page. One will notice the numbers take the form X/A-B-C-D-E y z X 'ls the total number of students answering a given question with a valid response (I -5). A through E are the percentages responding to answers 1-5 respectively. (If there were people who didn't answer the question or answered more than one choice, the percentages may not add to 100, since the percentages are based on the total number of responses for the course). The number Y is the arithmetic mean of the numberical response. Z is the standard deviation. The standard deviation is a measure of how varied the responses were above and below the mean. A standard deviation of zero would indicate that all students responded with the same number. A high SU standard deviation indicates a widely scattered response. This Questions #1-11 QUESTIONS L Your present cummulative index is: (1) 3.30 or higher .{2) 2.70 to 3.29 (3) 2.30 to '2.69 (4) 1.70 to 2.29 (5) below 1.70 2. Your grade for the course was: (l) A, (2) B, (3) C, (4) D, (5) F 3. Considering the amount of work that you did, your in.terest in the course, and your comprehension of the material presented, what grade ·ao you think you fairly deserved? · (1) A, (2) B, (3) C. (4) D, (5) F 4. How open was the instructor to rt~w id~M, analysis differing from his own, and/or interpretations dif(ering from his own? {l) Very open to student interpretation (2) Open, but generally leary of student viewpoints. , (3) Sometimes open, sometimes not. ·. (4) Willing to accept only views which coincide with his. (5) Closed and not receptive. 5. The instructor's presentallon of the couts~ tnll.teriru was basically ... C'OURSJ.: INSTRUCTOR RRT/ENROLL QUES !l QUES 2 QUES 3 QUES 4 QUES 5 QUES 6 QUES 7 QUES 8 19/53-21-11-11-5 - 19/ 16-63-16-5-0 1.95 1.23 2.11 0.71 19/32-42-11-11-5 2.16 1.14 PSY-010.,.03 Calabria R 19 37 51% 19/11-26-3 2-21-11 2.95 1.14 17 I 5-42-37-5-0 2.47 0.69 181 11-74-11·0·0 2.00 0.47 191 53-32-5-0-11 1.84 1.23 19/ 76·42-16-11-5 2.26 1.12 12/ 0-15-23-38-15 13/ 31-23-15-23·8 3.58 0.95 2.54 1.34 12/ 0-B-'Jg_~H-22 3.69 0.91 PSY-020-01 Hesse R 13 28 46% 13/ 0-23-38-38-0 3.15 0.77 13/23-23-31-0-23 2.77 1.42 13! 3 8-3 8-0-8-15 2.23 1.42 13/ 23-62-8-8-0 2.00 0.79 g/ 38-31-~~-0-S 2.08 1.14 18/ 67-22-11-0-0 • 18/ 6-28-56-6-6 1.44 0.69 2.78 0.85 18/ 33-28-11-22-6 2.39 1.30 PSY-024-01 Calabria R 18 44 41% 18/22-11-39-22-6 2.78 1.18 18/11-39-39-11-0 2.50 0.83 181 33-39-22-6-0 2.00 0.88 181 83-17-0-0-0 1.17 0.37 18( 11-61-11-11-6 2.39 1.00 21/18-27-18-27-5 21/ 36·55-5-0.0 2.71 1.20 1.67 0.57 22/ 68-32-0-0-0 1.32 :0.46 PSY-030-01 Graves R 22 47 47% 22/ 0-14-50-36-0 3.23 0.67 20/ 5-14-55-14-5 3.00 0.84 21( 5-41-45-0-5 2.57 0.79 21/82-14-0-0-0 1.14 0.35 22/ 68-27-5-0-0 1.36 0.57 11/ 18-36-9-27-9 11/ 9-18-55-18-0 2. 73 1.28 2.82 0.83 11/18-36-0-9-36 3.09 1.62 PSY-031-01 Pearce R 11 21 52% 11/18-18-27-27-9 2.91 1.24 10/ 9-45-36-0-0 2.30 0.64 10/36-36-18-0-0 1.80 0.75 11( 55-36-9-0-0 1.55 0.66 111 9-45-0-36-9 2.91 1.24 6/ 83-0-0-17-0 6/ 0-0-17-33-50 150 1.12 4.33 0.75 i6/ 33-50-17-0-0 1.83 0.69 PSY-039·01 Girdner R 6 19 32% 6( 17-17-67-0-0 2.50 0.76 6/33-50-17-0-0 1.83 0;69 6/ 50-33-17-0-0 1.67 0.75 61 83-17-0-0-0 1.17 0.37 6150-17-33-0-0 1.83 0.90 6/67-17-17-0-0 6/0-17-17-67-0 1.50 0.76 3.50 0.76 6( 83-17-0-0-0 1.17 0.37 PSY-045•01 Huntley R 6 14 43% 6/ Q-33-0-67..0 3.33 0.94 6/ 17'{;7-17·0\0 2.00 0.57 6/ 33-50-17..0-0 1.83 0.69 61 83-0-0-17-0 1.50 1.12 61 83-17-0-0-0 1.17 0.37 12/50-17-17-17-0 12/ 0-33-42-25-0 2.00 1.15 2.92 0. 76 12/25-25-42-8-0 2.35 0.94 PSY-048-01 R 12 31 3 R 12 31 39% 12/8-33-25-33-0 2.83 0.98 11( 33-42-17-0-0 1.82 0.71 10/ 33-25-25-0-0 1.90 0.83 12( 17-33-17-17-17 2.83 1.35 121 92-8-0-0-0 1.08 0.28 13/38·6-19-6-13 14/ 56·19·13·0-0 2.38 1.49 1.50 0.73 1S/1H9-44-19-0 2.73 0.93 EGR-011-01 Male R 16 27 59% 16/19-25-38·6-13 2.69 1.21 16/19·44-31-6-0 2.25 0.83 16/25-63-13-0·0 1.88 0.60 15/ 13-38-44-Q-0 2.33 0.70 151 25-44-25-o-O 2.00 0.73 15/ 25-25-15-10-0 20/ 60-35-5-0-0 '2.13 1.02 1.45 0.59 20/ 60-30-10-0-0 1.50 0.67 EGR-011-02 Eisenstadt R 20 27 74% 20/ 5-25-25·35-10 3.20 1.08 19/ 15-35-30-15-0 2.47 0.94 19/ 25~45-25-0-0 2.00 0.73 19/ 55-30-10-0..0 1.53 0.68 19/ 80-10-5-0-0 1.21 0.52 13/ 15-23-38·8-15 13/ 69-23-0-8-0 2.85 1.23 1.46 0.84 111 31-31-8-8~8 2.18 1.26 EGR-011-03 Craig R 13 22 59% 13/15-15-31-31-8 3,QO 1.17 10/8-23-31-8-8 2.80 1.08 13/ 23-38-38-0-0 2.15 0.77 13/ 23-54-15-8-0 2.08 0.83 131 31-54-0-8-8 2.08 1.14 12/43-7-29-7-0 141 50-43-7-0-0 2.00 1.08 1.57 0.62 14( 57-29-7-7-0 1.64 0.89 EGR-011-04 Goodheart R 14 27 52% 13/21-21-7-43·0 2.77 1.25 141 36-14-36-14-0 2.29 1.10 14( 43-21-29-7-0 2.00 1.00 13/ 64-29-0-0-0 1.31 0.47 14/64-29-0-Q-7 1.57 LOS Winter, 1969 (1) lecture. (2) lecture with some discussion. (3) equal lecture and_discussion. ( 4) discussion with some lecture. ( 5) discussion. For the following statements, please indicate your response by the numbers: (I) Strong agreement. (2) Agreement. (3) No opinion. (4) Disagreement. (5) Strong disagreement. 6. The instructor was greatly interested in the material being taught. 7. The instructor clearly defined the ocjectives of the course. 8. The instructor's presentation of the material greatly aided the understanding of the course materiaL 9. Daily preparation for class is necessary for the understanding of class lecture and discussion. 10. The instructor stimulated the student to think about material beyond the course requirements. ll. The instructor was organized in J1is presentation of the course material. · · QUES 9 QUES. 10 QUES. 11 18/ 21-32-5-26-11 19/47-21-21-5-5 18/37-26-S-26-0 2.72 1.37 2.00 1.17 2.22 1.23 n/ ~2-:n-0-8-& 1:11 O-R-19-R-~6 n; 2J,S4.-0-0-n 1.77 1.25 3.92 1.07 ' 2.46 1.45 181 6-61-6-11-17 18/ 33-5Q-6-6-6 18/22-SQ-11-6-11 2. 72 1.24 2.00 1.05 2.33 1.20 22( 27-23-14-32-5 22145-36-14-5-0 21/68-23-0-5-0 2.64 1.30 1. 77 0.85 1.38 0.72 11/ 0-64-0-18-18 11/36-27-0-18-18 10/ 9-1:8-9-45-9 2.91 1.24 2.55 1.56 3.30 1.19 6/ 0-17·33·33·17 6/ 33-50-0-17-0 6/ 33-33-33-0-0 3.50 0.96 2.00 1.00 2.00 0.82 6/67-33-0-0-0 6/ 50-50-0-0-0 6/83-17-0-0-0 1.33 0.47 1.50 0.50 1.17 0.37 12/ 8-25-25-42-0 12/33-50-17-0-0 12/ 8-33-8-42-8 3.00 1.00 1.83 0.69 3.08 1.19 15/25-31-25-6-6 15/6-19-38-31\0 15/ 19-31-31-13-0 2.33 1.14 3.00 0.89 2.40 0.95 19/50-35-5-0-5 19/20-35-30-10-0 191 50-35-10-0-0 1.68 0;97 2.32 0.92 1.58 0.68 121 46-23-0-23-0 12/ 23-38-23-0-8 12/ 23-54-8-8-0 2.00 1.22 2.25 1.09 2.00 0.82 14/57-36-7-0-0 14/ 29-29-21-14-7 14/ 50-36-7-7-0 1.50 0.62 2.43 1.24 1.71 0.88 EGR-022-01 Leary R 18 27 qJ.% 18( 0-33-22-39-6 ! \ 3.17 0.96 18/17-44-28-11-0 18/6-67-28-0-0 18/61-17-17-6-0 18/67-28-6-0-0 18/ 67-33-0-0-0 18117-39-17-17-11 18/ 0-28-33-22-17 18/6-33-6-39-17 18/0-33-17-39-11 17 I 0-33-17-39-6 EGR-022-02 Eisenstadt R 13 18 72% EGR-030-01 Panlilio R 8 15 53% EGR-030-02 Pikul R 8 15 53% EGR-050-01 J?lesums R 9 23 39% EGR•051-01 Plesums .. - - r· t on OL O£-Q£•6I-u-i /OP tQ'1 S9 t1·1t-t'l•€-L /9Z 08'(; oz:-oz-o9-o-o /s R 7 11 64% - . 9£'I ~6·z 9l·Z:-9I-1717-L /IV 9(;'1 89'Z tt-€-tz:-u:-tr /sz 08'(; oz:-oz-o-ot-oz: /~ 13/5~23-15-8-0 1.77 0.97 8/ 0-13-50-38-0 3.25 0.66 81 13-13-25-38-13 3.25 1.20 91 ll-11-33-44-0 3.1l 0.99 1 I 14-29-43-0-14 2.71 1.16 • • • 6L\O ~6·t L -o~LL-t;-L /IV 09'0 S8'Z . o~t-9i-£-L /9Z 08'Z o-o-o8-oz-o 1~ 2.33 0.88 13/ 46-46-8-0-0 1.62 0.62 8( 0-50-25-25-0 2.75 0.83 8/ 38-13-38-13-0 2.25 1.09 9/ 22-56-22-0-0 2.00 0.66 6/ 43-29-14-0-0 1.67 0.75 ~ . -=-- 9L·o a·z l~l-£l-8t;-6/Ifl Z9'0 6I'Z o-o-8z-zs-or fgz 00'£ o-o-oor-o-o /s 2.22 0.54 13/54-38-8-0-0 1.54 0.63 8/13-50-13-25-0 2.50 1.00 81 25-38-25-0-13 2.38 1.22 9/22-67-0-11-0 2.00 0.82 7 I 57-14-29-0-0 1.71 0.88 .. tii1 ., • \\ \':;.. p. , . . - uro z:o·z s-r:-z-L9·6I liP S6'0 s8·r £-£-£-Strt£ /9Z o-v·z o-oz: -o-o8-o /s 1.67 0.94 1.39 0.59 12/31-54-0-0-8 13/92-8-0-0-0 1.92 1.04 1.08 0.26 8/ 0-38-38-25-0 8/ 50-38-13-0-0 2.88 0.78 1.63 0.70 1( 50-25-13-0-0 8/25-63-13-Q-0 1.57 0. 73 1.88 0.60 1( 33-33-11-0-0 9/67-11-22-0-0 1.71 0.70 1.56 0.83 6/ 57-29-0-0-0 7 I 86-14-0-0-0 1.33 0.47 1.14 0.35 - \* 6> \\ .. , .} ...... , \) .-\ S6'0 06'1 z-s-6-ot-s£ /6£ s6·o srz ~-~-£. J·St-JZ /9Z ot·z oz-o-oz-oz-ot /s n·r s-v·z 6-ZHH£-£<: /Ot £1'1 £9'Z £-tz·tl·8~·tl/a · o-v·z: oz-o-oz-oz-ot /S 1.33 0.47 13/ 62-23-8-8-0 1.62 0.92 8/75-13-13-0-0 1.38 0.69 8( 50-50-0-0-0 1.50 0.50 9/56-44-0-0-0 1.44 0.49 7/ 86-14-0-0-0 1.14 0.35 til \ II \\-· L8'0 £6'1 z-z-n-6t-o£ /It 16'0 18'1 O-l.·Ql:·t£·1t (l.Z o8·r o-o-oz-ot-ot rs 2.67 1.25 13/ 69-15-0-15-0 1.62 1.08 8/38-25-13-25-0 2.25 1.20 8/ 25-63-13-0-0 1.88 0.60 9/ 56-44-0-0-0 1.44 0.49 7/71-29-0-0-0 1.29 0.45 ., ..., £t'I £9'Z 9 I -ZI -17 1-RZ -9Z /It? SL'O LL'l o-£-L ·st-t£ /9t. oz:·t Ot-ot-oz:-o-o /S 3.28 1.04 12/31-31-15-8-8 2.25 1.23 8/25-50-13-13-0 2.13 0.93 8( 13-63-13-13-0 2.25 0.83 9/56-33-0-11-0 .1.67 0.94 7/ 43-43-14-0-0 1.71 0.70 tl # ~ .... 90'1 S€'£ ZI-L£-16HZ·Z /Ot 178'0 i?S'£ Ol-8£-I€-o~-o /9Z 08'£ OZ-09-o-oz-o /S 3.28 1.24 3.28 1.04 3.18 0.98 13/62-38-0-0-0 13/ 15-31-31-0-23 131 46-23-23-8-0 1. 1.38 0.48 2.85 1.35 1.92 1.00 8( 63-13-13-13-0 8/13-50-25-13-0 8/50-38-13-0-0 1.75 1.09 2.38 0.85 1.63 0.70 8/38-50-13-0-0 8/ 0-50-25-25-0 8/ 25-50-25-0-0 1.75 0.66 2.75 0.83 2.00 0.71 9/11-33-11-33-11 7( 11-33-11-22-0 8/22-11-22-33-0 3.00 1.25 2.57 1.05 2.75 1.20 7/ 43-57-o-o-o 11 71-14-14-0-'o 7/ 86-Q-14-0-0 1.57 0.49 1.43 0.73 1.29 0.70 fli <I il .9 .., tl ..,; .; .,. '\\· & \ ~ • ~ ~ -· 60'1 88'1 98'0 6/..'I n-9I-9l-LP liP L8'0 zn z·z-~-~-18 /It z-O-P1-0t-zfl/lfl lO·ZIO·WH::> 90'1 1I'Z £-01-L-St-8Z /LZ 09'Z o-ov-o-ot-oz /S £s·o sz·y zn -vs·1 o-o-z-L I-99 lsz L-O-L-1£-Iv /sz ·.·.,; oo·z oo·z o-o-o-v-oz~o-v /s. o-oz-o-o-v-ov.;s IO-o 1.0-:WH;) ' 10-8t<F:WH::> . ' . J \'l.

GE0-012-01 Whitney R 2 4 50% GE0-051-01 Katz R 5 12 42% MTH·010-0l Strait R 15 18 83% MTH-011)-02 Cor111an R 15 28 54% MTH-012-01 Maddaus R 16 26 62% MTH-012·02 Stone R 16 25 64% MUI-012-03 Stone R 16 23 70% MTH-012-04 Corman R 12 20 60% MTH-012·0~ Ballard R D 17 76% MTli-014-09 Gijlette R 16 24 67% MTH-012-07 Strait R 12 23 52% MTH-014-01 Holt R 6 lJ 46% MTH-02&-01 Riley R 7 16 44% MTH•030•01 Sarma R 6 1Z 67'1o MTH-030-02 Riley R 7 21 33% MTH-030-03 Leach R 13 21 62% MTH-032-01 Leach · R 10 18 56% MTH-032-02 Bick R 6 11 55% MTH-045-01 Balla.Id R 5 5 100% MTH-048-()1 Seiken R . .,.g S 60% PHY-011-01 Titus R 10 18 56% PHY-011-02 W. Schwarz R 9 17 53% PHY-011-03 W. Schwarz R ·11 18 61% PHY-011-04 Grunwald R 9 18 50% PHY-011-05 Grunwald R 12 15 80% PHY-033·01 Wylen R 7 10 70% PHY-046-01 Jo'nes R 3 4 75% PHY-011-01 Titus X 43 86 SO% PSY-Q10-01 Huntley R 24 37 65% .. PSY .o:t0-02 , Girdner R 15 2,} 56% !!: . -. 2/ 0-50-0-50-0 3:00 5/ 0-0-40-60-0 3.60 15/ 20-20-13~4o-7 2.93 1.29 15/ 7-4N.7-33-7 3.07 1.06 16/ 19·25·31·25·0 2.62 1.05 16/6-13-25-44-13 3.44 1.06 15/19-6-l9•3H9 3.27 1.39 12/ 17-17-33-17-17 3.00 1.29 13/15~~1-15-23-15 2.92 1.33 16/ 19-44~13-i3-i3 2.56 1.27 12/ 25-17-4 2-8-8 2.58 1.19 6/67-17-17-Q-0 l.SO 0.16 7/ 0-43-29-29-0 2.B6 0.83 8/ Q-;}8-50-13-0 2.75 0.66 11 14-29-14-29-14 3.00 1.31 13/ 23·15·8·38·15 3.08 1.44 10/ 20-30-20-30-0 2.60 1.11 6/ 17-33-17-33;0 2.67 1.10 5/ 0-40-6 0-0-0 2,60 3/ 33-67-0-0-0 1.67 101 20-20-30-10-20 2.90 1.37 9( 22-22-22-11-22 2.&9 1.45 11/ 9-27~2N8-18 3.09 1.24 9/33-33-22-11-0 2.11 0.99 11/ 8-17-33-17-17 3.18 1.19 7/43-43-14-0-0 1.71 0.70 3/ 33-0-33-33-0 2.67 43/ 21-28-19-14-19 2.81 1.40 24/ 13-5 4-13-13-8 2.50 1.12 151 13-27-20-33-7 2.93 1.18 2/ 0-100-0-0-0 2.00 Sl 40-60-0-0-0 1.60 15/13-27-20-20-20 3.07 1.34 14/ 20-27-20-27-0 ~.57 1.11 15/25-38-19-13-0 2.20 0.98 151 o-25-lH~-38 3.67 1.25 161 0-31-19-19-31 3.50 1.22 8/ 8-17-25-0-17 3.00 1.32 13/23-31-15·23-B 2.62 1.27 l{,/ ~1~~1-19-El..b 2.31 1.21 12/25-17-25-33-Q 2.67 1.18 6/67-17-Q-17-0 1.67 1.10 61 14-29-43-0-0 1.33 0.75 ~/~8-9;3-040 1.63 0.49 6/43-6-14-29·0 2.33 1.37 13/ 35-23-15-15-8 2.31 1.33 9/20-20-20-20-10 2.78 1.32 6/33-33-17-17-0 2.17 1.07 5/ 20-60-20-0-0 2.00 3/ 0-100-0-0-0 2.00 10/1D-20-20-50-0 3.10 1.04 8/ 33-11-22-22-0 2.38 1.22 11/ 0-36-36-27-0 2.91 0.79 9/33-22-22-11-11 2.44 1.34 101 0-25-42-8-8 3.00 0.89 6/ 57-29-0-0-0 1.33 0.47 3/ 33-0-33-0-33 3.00 371 12-23-26-21-5 2.81 1.11 24/13-42-38-8-0 2.42 0.81 13/ 20-27-33-7-0 2.31 0.91 2/ 50-50-0-0-Q 1.50 5/40-40-20-0-0 1.80 15/ 33-33-20-7-7 2.20 1.17 15/ 27-27-27-0-20 2;60 1.40 16/31-44-19-6-0 2.00 0.87 16/19~25-25-13-19 2.88 1.36 161 6-44-31-13-6 2.69 0.98 121 17-33-3 3-8-8 2.58 1.12 131 23-31-31-S-8 2.46 1.15 IS/ :H-J!l-19-6-0 2.00 0.89 11/ 2~25-17-25-0 2.45 1.16 6/ 83-0-0-17-0 1.50 ~.i 2 7/ 0-57·43·0-0 2.43 0.49 8/ :?5.6 3-13-0-0 1.88 0.60 6/ 57-14-0-0-14 1.83 1.46 13/38-31-8-8-lS 2.31 1.44 10/ 30-30-20-20-Q 2.30 1.10 61 50-17-33-0-0 1.83 0.90 51 0-60-0-040 3.20 3/ D-33·67-0-0 2.67 10/ 20-20-20-30-10 2.90 1.30 S/ 33-11-22-22-0 2.38 1.22 11/0-45-27-27-0 2.82 0.83 ;If 9/33-44-22-0-0 1.89 0.73 10/ 0-17-67-0-D 2.80 0.40 6/ 29-43-14-Q-0 1.83 0.69 31 33-0-33-Q-33 3.00 37/14-26-28-16-2 2.62 1.05 24/ 4 2-5 0-8-0-0 1.67 0.62 15/20-53-27-D-0 2.07 0.68 .. ,_, '' .... ..... 2/ 50·0·50-0·0 2/ 0-1 00-0-D-0 l 2.00 z.oo 5/60-20-20-0-0 51 40~0-0-0-0 ,1.60 1.60 14/ 33-33-20-0-7 15/27-60.13-0-0 .2.07 1.10 1.87 0.62 14/13-13-47-20·0 15/ 67·13-13-D-7 2.79 0.94 1.67 1.14 15/ 69-25-0-0-0 16/5o-44-6-o-O 1.27 0.44 1.56 0.61 15/ 50-25-13-0-6 15/ 63-25-6-0-0 1.80 1.11 1.40 0.61! J 15/ 38-13-31-0-13 16/ 44-56-0-0-0 2.33 1.35 1.56 0.4~ 11/8-17-42-0-25 12167-17-17-0-0 . 3.18 1.26 1.50 0. 76 13/8-15-46-0-31 13/ 100-0-0-0-0 3.31 1.26 1.00 0.00 13/ e9-6..fi-O-O lJ/ J~•JB•o•O•O 1.23 0.57 1.53 0.62 10/ 58-8-17-o-O 11/ 33-33-25-0-0 1.50 0.81 1.91 0.79 S} 17-17-50-0-0 6/ 67-0-17-17-0 2.40 0.80 UD 1.21 6/14-43-29-o-o 7/86-14-o-o-o 2.17 0.69 1,14 0.35 7/38-0-38-13-0 7/ BB-0-0-0-0 2.29 1.16 1.00 0.00 7/29-29-29-14-0 7/ 100·0-0-0.0 2.29 1.03 1.00 0.00 . 13/46-8-31-Q-15 13/69-15-15-0-0 2.31 1.44 1.46 0.74 10140-20-40-20-0 10/80-20-0-0-0 2.00 0,89 1.20 0.40 6/100-0-Q-0-0 6/ 17-67-17-0-0 1.00 0.00 2.00 0.57 4/40-20-0·0-20 51 80-0-20-0-0 2.25 1.40 3/ D-1 00-0-0-D 2.00 31 67-33-1)-0-0 1.33 9/40·20-20-0-10 10/40-60-0-0-D 2.11 1.28 1.60 0.49 11 33-11-22-11-0 9/33-11-11-22-22 2.14 1.13 2.89 1.59 11/ 45-36-9-9-0 11/ 0-9-18-45-27 1.82 0.93 3.91 0.90 9/ 56-0-33-11-0 9/ 22-56-22-D-0 2.00 1.15 2.00 0.66 11/ 7 5-8-8-0-0 111 33-33-25-0-0 1.27 0.62 1.91 0.79 7/ 29-14-57-0-0 7/14-57-14-14-0 2.29 0.88 2.29 0.88 3/100-0-0-0-0 3/ 67-33-0-0-0 1.00 1.33 361 30-16-30-0-7 41/81-7-2-5-0 2.25 1.19 1.27 0.73 241 29-29-13-17-1: 22/ 29-58-4-0-0 2.54 1.3& 1.73 0.54 15/40-40·7-l3-0 15/ o-60-27-13-0 1.93 0.99 2.S3 0.71 ;:.. ::;, 2/100-0-0-0-0 1.00 51 20~80-D-0-0 1'.80 15/ 40-33-27-0-0 1.87 0.81 15/13·53-2D-1J-O 2.33 0.87 16/81-19-0-o-O 1.19 0.40 15/ 38-50-0-6-0 1.73 0.77 16/ 50-S0-0-0-0 1.50 0.50 12/ 8-50-17-25-0 2.58 0.95 13/ 23-38-15-23·0 2.38 1.08 1 :i { 6 30:31 -1)-1}0 1.33 0.47 11/67-25-0-0-0 1.27 0.45 6/ J3-50-17-0.0 1.83 0.69 1/ 14-57-14-14-0 2.29 0.88 8/ 38-38-13-0-13 2.13 1.27 7/29-29-29-o-14 2.43 1.29 1 ?.I 8-69-15-ll-0 2.23 0.69 101 60-30-10-0-0 1.50 0.67 6/ 83-17-0-0-0 1.1.7 0.37 5/ 80-0-20-0-D 1.40 3/ 33-67-0-0-0 1.67 10/40-SQ-0-10-0 1.80 0.87 9/ 33·33·33-D-0 2.00 0.82 10/27-36-18-9-0 2.10 0.94 9/ 33-44-22-0-0 1.89 0.73 12/ 42-50-8-0-0 1.67 0.62 7 I 29-71-0-0-0 1.71 0.45 3/ 33-67-0-0-0 1.67 41/47-35-7-7-0 1.73 0.88 23/63-33-0-0-0 1.35 0.47 14/40-47-0-7-0 1.71 0.79 ~ - ., \: MAy· G. 1969' 21 o-so-50-0-0 2.50 51 60-0-40-0-0 1.80 15/ 47-40-7-7-0 1.73 0.85 14/13-?7-3H3-7 2.71 1.10 16/44-38-6-6-6 1.94 1.14 16/13-50-25-0-13 2.50 1.12 16/ 44-31-6-19-0 2.00 1.12 12/ 25-25-17-25-8 2.67 1.31 13/ Q-31-8-31-31 3.62 1.21 1~/ ~Q-44-9-9-Q 1.47 o.:;o 9/ 42-25-0-8-0 1.67 0.94 6/ 50-33-17-0-0 1.67 0.75 7/ 0-71-14-14-0 2.43 0.73 8/ 50-38-0-0-13 1.8& 1.27 7/ 14-86-0-0-D 1.86 . 0,35 1~/ ~S-~8-S-15..0 2.00 1.04 10/3D-50-1Q-10-0 2.00 0.89 6/ 50-33-17-0-0 1.67 0,75 51 0-40-0-40-20 3.40 3/ o-67-0-33-0 2.67 . 10/ 40-10.40-10-0 2.20 1.08 9/ 22-11-44·11-11 2.78 1.23 11/18--36-9-9-27 2.91 1.51 9/ 11-78-11-0-0 2.00 0.47 111 8-42-25-17-0 2.55 0.89 7 I 14-57-14-14-0 2.29 0.88 3/ 0-1 00-0-0-0 2.00 401 21-42-21-5-5 2.25 1.02 23/ 63-33-0-0-0 1.35 0.47 14/ 27-33-40-13-0 2.21 1.01 2/ 0-1 00-0-0-0 2.00 Sf 60-20-0-20-0 1.80 15/47-20-0-20-13 2.33 1.54 14/13-33-13-13-20 2.93 1.39 16/ 75-19-6-0-0 1.31 0.5B 15/38-44-13~0-0 1.73 0.68 16 I 6 9- 25-0-6·0 1.44 0.79 12/ 8-50-0-17-25 3.00 1.41 13/ D-8-15-8-69 4.38 1.00 HI 86-6-6-Q-O 1.20 0.54 11/ 42-33-0-17-0 1.91 1.09 61 33·17·17·0·17 2.83 1.68 7:/ 0-29-43-14-14 3.14 0.99 8/ 50·13·13·13·13 1.2.) 1.4H 7J 29-29-14-14-14 2.57 1.40 1'11 23-54-8-B-8 2.23 1.12 9t/ 30-30-0-10-20 2.56 1.57 6/ 83-0-17.0-0 1.33 0.75 51 20-20-0-0-60 3.60 3/ 67-33-0-0-0 1.33 9/ l0-20-l0-20-30 3.44 1.42 9/ 22-11-22-11-33 3.22 1.55 U/ Q-18-2745-9 3.45 0.89 9/ 11-67-0-1U1 2.44 1.16 HI 33·58·0·0·0 1.64 0.48 11 14-57-14-14·0 2.29 0.88 3/ 1 00-0-0-0-D 2.00 41/ 19-40·16-16-5 2.46 1.13 24/ 58-42-0-0-0 1.42 0.50 [4/7-33-7-40-7 3.0? 1.16 ~ ..::.. 2/ 0-50-50-0-0 2.50 5/ Q-20-20-20-40 3.80 15/60-40·0-0·0 1.40 0.49 15/ 53•27-0-13-7 1.9.3 1.29 15/ 50-3&-0-6-0 1.60 0.80 16/ 44-31·6·19·0 2,00 1.12 16/ 50-44-Q-6-0 1.63 0.78 12/ 4 2-4 2-0-8-8 2.00 1.22 13/31-31-23-8-8 z.:.n 1.20 15/ 25-56-13-0-0 1.87 0.62 11 I 3 3-4 2-8-8-0 1.91 0.90 6{ 17·67·0·0·17 2.33 1.2~ 7/ 0-29-14-0-57 3.86 1.36 8/38·25·0·25·13 2.50 1.50 ~ 1/ 0-43-43-14-0 2.71 0.70 13/ 38·23-15·15·8 2.31 1.33 9/ 30-10-20-30-0 2.56 1.26 6/33-50-0-0-17 2.17 1.35 51 0-20-20-0-60 4.00 2/ 33-33-0-0-0 1.50 9/ 0-50-20-10-10 2.78 1.03 8/ $6-22-11-0-Q 1.50 0.71 11 I 1 8-7 3-0-9•0 2.00 0.74 9/ 22-67-11-0-0 1.89 0.57 121 33-1 7-17-33·0 2.50 1.26 7/29-57-0-14-0 2.00 0.93 3/ 33-33-33-0-0 2.00 40/16-26-30-12-9 2.70 1.19 2410-38-13-42-8 3.21 1.04 141 0-33-13-40-7 3.21 1.01 2/ 0-50-S0-0-0 2.50 5/ 20.40-40-0-0 2.20 \ 15/2o-0-33-17-20 3.27 1.34 15/ 2Q-0-33-33-H 3.20 1.2B 15/13·13-38-25-6 3.00 1.10 16/0-19-44-25-13 3.31 0.92 15/13-25-31-19-6 2.80 . 1.11 12/ 0-8-8-4 2-4 2 4.17 0.90 13/ 0-0-8-23-69 4.62 0.62 14/ 6-19-6~-0-0 2.64 6.61 11/ 17-17-25-25-8 2.91 1.24 6/17-Q-33-17-33 3.50 1.39 7/ 14-14-43-14-14 3.00 1.20 8/13-0-3 8-25-25 ;3.~0 1.22 7/ 0-14-29-43-14 3.57 0.90 13/ 8-D-46-23-23 3.54 1.08 10/ 10·10-0-40-40 3.90 1.30 6/ 50·17·33-D-0 1.83 0.90 5/ Q-20-6Q-0-20 3.20 3/ 0-67-33-0-0 2.33 9/1D-3D-0-3Q-20 3.22 1.40 9/ ll-22-11-33-22 3:33 1.33 11/ 0..~'-19-4~-9 3.36 0.98 91 0-33-33-33-0 3.00 0.82 10/ 8-33-33-8-0 2.50 0.81 7/14-29-43-14-0 2.57 0.90 31 0-33-33-33-0 3,0Q 40/ 9-30-26-21-7 2.85 1.11 24/ 38-29-25-4-4 2.08 1.08 14/13-27-20-33-0 2.79 1.08 ' ... PAGE L-10 21 0-100-0-0-0 2~00 51 100·0-0-0-0 1.0(}. ' 15/40.53-7-0•0 1.67 0.60 15/ ~~-40-l~-7-7 2.13 1.15 16/56-31-13-0-0 1.56 0.70 14/44-38-0-0-6 1.71 1,03 15/44-5o-o-o-o 1.53 0.50 11/ 0-50-17-17-8 2.28 1.03 13/ 8-54-15-8-15 2.69 1.20 15} 63-31-0-0-0 · u~ o.4? 10/ 42-42-0-0-0 1.50 0,50 6/3~HH7-33-17 .. 3.00 \1.53 7/57-43-0-0-0 1.43 0.49 8/ 38-63·0·0-0 1.63 0.49 7/ 29-57-14-0-0 1.86 0.64 PI 23-62-ts-o-o 1.92 0.6l 10/40-40-20-0-0 1.80 0.75 5/ 5o-3 3-o-o-o 1.40 0.49 5/ 80-0-0-20-0 1.60 3/ 33-67-0-0-0 1.67 9/Io-So-3o-O-O 2.22 0.63 9/ 22-22-11-33-11 2.&9 1.37 11} 0-~6-9-55-0 3.18 0.93 9/ 33·33-33·0-0 2.00 0.82 11/ 42-50-0-0-0 1.55 0.50 7/43-43-14-0-0 1.71 0.70 3/ 3 3-6 7-0-0-0 1.67 38/30-49-7-2-0 1.79 0.69 23/79-17-o-0-0 1.17 0.37 14/7-33-20-13-20 3.07 1.28

• . . • ' • .,,. Founded at Union College 1877 • was t who by three only • do the in each doubles 1 ddlebury team is which t the .500 it is a the up on f ·6. the scoring by the I to this line. 1 ood, thus 8-6. The off any boys, , a able to arne that -1 ount of ~as f mJunes, team. Weekend lost four f sustained games. rs Cliff I played serum, 1 strength Greg and f who and the 1 open one Action the # ina ted Club on thus I real VOL 98, NO. 46 Andreas Papan<lreon will discuss \The Greek Military Takeover\ Tuesday at an ~ 8 p.m.-Convocation. Papandreou Subject: .Greek Junta's Coup Dr. Andreas Papandreou, former Greek Minister of Economic ~. Coordination and son of a former premier of Greece, will address a Convocation at 8 p.m. Tuesday in ( Memorial Chapel. Scheduled to appear earlier, Dr. Papandreou was forced by illness to postpone his address. His topic will be, •,. ·The Greek Military Takeover: Problem for the West.\ Dr. Papandreou is a spokesman for those Greeks who oppose the present ' regime in Athens and who hope for an early return of democracy. Arrested by Junta While at the University of Athens as Fulbright Professor of Economics, Dr. Papandreou organized and directed the Center of Economic Research and Programming in Greece. An organization financed and sponsored by the Rockefeller and Ford Foundations, as well as University of California at Berkeley. Continued on Page 3 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., MAY 9, 1969 PRICE TVVENTY CENTS Albany Bust Nabs Union Frosh As ACC Accepts Drug Report Olton Explains Policy Rationale: \No Raids Here\ By NEIL S. KRAMER The All College Cmmcil Wednesday night voted unanimously to institute the recommendations of the drug committee as College policy and asked the President to write state and federal lawmakers requesting a review of drug abuse laws. The ACC meeting was held in Davidson House Lounge and about 30 students witnessed the meeting. Questions from students on the drug policy were directed at Charles Olton, assistant professor of history, and chairman of the committee that drafted the College's dmg policy. Enforcement Most questions were concerned with the statement in the report about enforcement: \Union_ will attempt to deal with drug prpblems as an internal community matter, requiring candor, honesty, confidence, trust and sensitivity; but if willful, furtive or continuing malfeasance occurs, the College will make every effort to eradicate it.\ The object of the drug policy is not to accumulate lists of the names of known drug users, Prof. Olton said. Resident advisers and fraternity officers are supposed to go to the Dean of Students for assistance. The Dean would then propose a ''program of action\ designed to \stamp out something detrimental to the society,\ Olton said. \But if the cagcer continues to multiply\ in spite of the program of action, then disciplinary actions will probably be taken. Continued on Page 2 A Week Away By BRUCE H. HUSTEN Following the most sweepi11g series of narcotics raids ever conducted in the Tri-Cities area, a Union fres!J.man was arrested Wednesday alung witl1 35 others and was arraigned this morning before J utlge George W. Stroebel in Scheiwctady Police Court_ Donald B. Bosch '72 was apprehended on warrants charging him with criminally selling dangerous drugs in the third degree and criminally possessing dangerous drugs in the fourth degree. He was remanded to the Schenectady County Jail in lieu of bail until his court appearance this morning. At press tilllc he had not yet been arraigned. ELECTION RESULT Lat1· rl'turn~ from last nighb' student bod; elections: Fwr Pl\ESIUE;'\JT: Don Kes::;ler '71 Hill Daw::;on '71 Hurt )' ankiverm '71 Howard Blank '70 For \ICE PRESIDE;\;T: \\ altt~r Spencer '72 Erie Chen.;on '70 For SECRETARY 496 DB 66 G51 160 john Castellani '72 270 L<•n Simon '70 (write-in) 190 Arrested We~nes<iay Bosch's arrest came Wednesday morning shortly after 3 2 pco pic had been arrested in Albany on narcotics charges and two elderly Albany physicians were clwrgcd with violating the Public Health Law by prescribing drugs in bad faith. Sources said Bosch, 19, and an 18-year-old Rotterdam youth were picked up on warrants after the raids on seven Albany apartments. It was implied that some of those arre.sted in Albany tipped off the police to pick up the two from Scl1enectady County. Neither Bosch nor the Rotterdam youth were directly involved with the Albany raids but were picked up as a result of informatio11 gleaned from those already apprehended. Police officials apparently picked up Bosch, a resideat of Garden City who lives at Union 011 the third floor of West College, at his dormitory and remanded him to custody. Dean of Students Edward Malloy said he did not lwow the specific details of Bosch's arrest and said any official statement woul<l have to come from the Public Affairs office. No College C()mrnent Dr. Papandreou was elected to the Greek Parliament in 1 ~64, and appointed Minister of Economic Coordination, positions he held until the Centsr Union Party fell in July, 1965. He was arrested by the junta on April 21, 196 7 and was held until Dec. 24, 1967. Black Alliance Plans Art Fete A spokesman for that office, however, reiterated the college's policy not to comment on the individual actions of a Union student which are in no way related to the life of the college. One of the arrested physicians, Dr. He was freed through the efforts of intervening friends, including United States organizations such as the ~\ American Economic Association, the American Association of University Professors, and a group of prominent individuals. By BRUCE H. HUSTEN Union's Black Arts Festival will begin one week from tonight, right on the heels of Arts Festival '69, with a recital of Negro spirituals by Steven A. Cole, tenor, beginning at 8:30p.m. in room 016 of the social sciences building. The festival will continue through the next day, May 17, and will include various displays of African and Afro-American pieces of art, a display of Black literature, an afternoon of seminars on \The Black Experience\--the theme of the festival--and an evening of entertainment entitled \The Afro-American Experience: Africa to U.S.A., 1969.\ Organized By Alliance The college's Black Students' Alliance is organizing the festival. Cole is chairman for the weekend's events and on the planning committee are Victor E. Brown '69, president of the Black Alliance, and Michael G. Williams '71 . Daniel F. O'Keeffe, 8l,awaits May 29 trials on seven other counts of prescribing drugs in bad faith. He is also currently awaiting trial on an abortion charge. ~ State Police said the raids climaxed several months of investigation by the Narcotics Division. W ald First. Daviihon Fellmv Proceeds from the Black Arts Festival will be given to the Martin Luther King Memorial Scholarship Fund. Of particular interest will be \The Afro-American Experience\ set for Saturday evening, May 17, in the chapel beginning at 8 p.m. Simba, a troupe of 18 African dancers and drummers, will perform from 8 to 8:45 p.m. followed by a showing of African fashions until 9 p.m. Police described the rai' ~d apartments as \crash pads\ which were \inhabited by hippies\ ~nd said the \filthy\ apartments were furnished only with mattresses on the floor. in ke a an it day~ Dr. George Wald, co-winner of the Nobel Prize for Medicine in 1967 and # 'll Higgins Professor of Biology at Harvard, will be the first Davidson Fellow, Dr. Harold C. Martin announced today. Prof. Wald has recently taken an important role in the national question of student unrest. In addition to 1 , leading a faculty committee at Harvard which is studying the situation there, he wrote in the \New York Times\ that he believes the cure for student I '-unrest is more adult concern for national problems. The Davidson Fellows Fund was 1 established last fall by a gift to the ' coHege by Trustee and Mrs. Henry Schaffer. The program honors the late Dr. Carter Davidson. president of :.. Union College from 1946 to 1964, by bringing to the college distinguished men and women in fields related to undergraduate interests. Convocation Prof.. Wald will deliver a public lecture, \The Origin of Death,\ at 8:30 p.m. Wednesday, May 21, in Memorial Chapel. At 2:30 p.m. Wednesday, he will address students of two Comprehensive Education classes on ''The Human Enterprise.\ He will also conduct an open-air meeting at 1:30 p.m. Thursday, May 22, in front of Nott Memorial on \Students in the World Today.\ The remaiader of his stay on campus will be devoted to smaller meetings with students and faculty. A member of the Harvard faculty si11ce 1934, Pro f. Wald is a 1927 graduate of New Y<>rk University. He took his doctorate at Columbia in 1932. He is trustee of the Marine Biological Laboratory at Woods Hole, Mass., and Radcliffe College. He has received the Eli Lilly Prize of the American Chemical Society, the Lasker award of the Public Health Association, the Proctor award of the Association for Research in Opthalmology, the Rumford medal of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the Ives Medal of the Optical Society of America, and the Paul Karrer medal in chemistry from the University of Zurich. In 1952, Prof. Wald was the national Sigma Xi lecturer. From 1954 to 1956 he served as chairman of the divisional committee on biology and medical sciences of the National Science Foundation. During 1963-64 he was a Guggenheim Fellow and an Overseas Fellow of Churchill Co1lege at Cambridge University. Reception To Follow An intermission will follow the fashion show, and after that a group called \Listen My Brother\ will present Black poetry, singing and acting. A reception will follow the evening's activities in the Hale House Lounge. Union's Black Arts Weekend also follows similar events held recently at RPI in Troy and at the State University of New York at Albany. Next Tuesday's Coucordiensis will devote a full page to the Black Arts Festival, including a detailed calendar of events and previews of specific presentations. LOTT'EiR.Y De an L u c a s ann ou n c c d yesterday that all juniors interested in liviug off-campus next year should con tact his office starting this Monday. A lottery will be held to decide which of H1c juniors will be allowed off.campus. The decision to allow juniors to move off school grounds was made after the Admissions Office announced that next year's freshman class will number over five hundred students.

PAGE 2- Action Out Of Our Rhetoric The College community has been very successful at solving most of the major problems that have occurred this year. Co-education is virtually assured for the fall of 1970; the Faculty will probably limit the College's entanglements with AFROTC so that it will no longer pose as an emotional issue that endangers the College because of the. feelings that it raises; and implementation of the drug policy approved last night by the All College Council ought to give us a fighting chance of avoiding an invasion by the police. In one respect though, these have all been easy problems to deal with because these questions were_ evident t0 nearly everyone on campus. But next year, when there will be a critical mass of black students at the College, Union will be faced with problems the likes of which she has never seen. Because of the energetic recruiting efforts of the Admissions people and Project HOPE, there will be about 40 black students here next year, which is more than Williams had this spring when blacks occupied the Administration Building there. The upshot of the Williams takeover was \Give-A-Damn Week\ in which the whole Williams community examined their relatiunships with one another and tried to come to some solutions to the problems and discontent that led to the black students' occupation. Williams is only one of a host of colleges and universities that have been distracted from the business of education by racial disturbances. But because of its proximity and similarity to us, the Williams experience ought to be especially poignant to Union College. The whole carnpus community ought to feel obliged now to re-examine itself intensively in light of the different racial mixtt,tre here next year. The Dean of Students has begun to move in this position by trying to match the housing policy with the needs and desires of black students. Yet more needs to be done .. at the very least, a full scale summer committee comparable to the ad hue committee on the future of the College that met two summers ago. Also, a tri-partite faculty-student-administration committee ought to sit all year long and attempt to deal with the grievances of black students so that we can avoid confrontation and disruption. The fraternities here face perhaps the largest challenge. Despite fr alt'rnity attempts to rush black students, the trend scrms to be for black students to want to live together, segregakJ from white students. The result will be that fraternities may be attacked as 'honkie' institutions even though hey try very hard to integrate. We do not rrally know what thr fraternities ought to do, but if they do nothing, the resultant bad feeling may blow Union apart. just as Cornell was blown apart. Similarly, the black students at Union, particularly those in the Class of 1973, will have to become oriented to the fact that Union College cannot right 300 years of injustice. even if the faculty were all black, the dorms all black and the curriculum all black. Considering the nature of its resources, Union is making a wholehearted attempt to integrate itself meaningfully. But unless the College recognizes its liabilities and weaknesses and makes it very explicit to itself and its black students that we cannot make miracles, then we face tht likelihood of being confounded by our hopeful rhetoric. \Those who make peaceful revolution impossible make violent revolution inevitable.\ P~o~blll~td Tu~ tdfly and F\day dur- '\' tl\lt acl-lool year by !ht Stud~nl 8ody of UmonColltl•· Srhtnt<!ody N. V, N111onol Advtrtuu•c Repro• unlatavt: N allonal [dllfll >enol Advorlloonc Servaet. Inc .. Collece p\bl&Ohn• Rtpnunlltl\ 1. 360 Ltuncooll Avonut. N. '/, C. Eduoraal Ofhct. Old Cyftl, UII&Ofl c olloar. PubllealiOfl Of he •· Wl-lllt• h\rll Prantanc a> Bandlfll Co .. Inc .. 416·411 farth Ave .. Troy. 235•44·50 .. Entered an tho Scl'lenoetady Poll Off•e• •• Suond Cia•·• Mall Mallet. Suboerapuon 20r a copy; S6 1 year delavered aftywhert lfl tllo Ut~llod State •· NEILS. KRAMER Editor-in-Chief WILUAM OUZER CARLGOLDSAND Managing Editor Business Manager SENIOR BOARD Paul Andrews, Andrew Crisses, Henry Fein, Bruce Husten, Alan Mell, Peter Weingold. By JOE BEDELL Concordy Music Critic The perfonnance Tuesday night given by the Glee Club wi,th Theodor Uppman of the Metropolitan Opera was genera 11 y pIe as i ng and professional. Had more Union · men decided to go, they would have spent their time well. For those who think they don~t enjoy choral music, the program was widely varied and fun. Bl!lt there were several things which bothered this reviewer. The club's director, Professor Hugh Allen Wilson, began-, wisely (because anyone can listen to him confortably) with Bach. The arrangement was perfect for an all male group, but the tenors seemed to have trouble in he high spots, and a directed de cresendo at those points combined to produce a thin and strained sound. Th.is sort of unevenness of volume and reasonance was apparent at other places in the concert, especially in the two Thomspon pieces and in the Heath arrangement of \When Johnny Comes Marching Horne.\ On these pieces the whole club seemed to be short of breath, and tlle consequent gasping made the usually fine, full reasonance and solid sounding hannony sound like an old pipe organ with leaky bellows. fl MAY'9, 1969 ll 'l! II Theodore Uppmmperfol'ming with the Union College &lee Club Tuesday night. if} Both Steven Cole and Theodor Uppman were supe1b. It may sound surprising to nte Cdle and Uppman on the same level---but this reviewer tiHlUg!it that both added equally to tile evening's enjoyment. Of coUJse Uppman was the featured performer, and he is a professional .. -but if you :heard a recording of the concert with <Jut lrn<>wing that, chances are you wouldn't single him out. C<>le's showmanship was professional, and this, combined with a 0 ne other thing was irritating. On the Villa-Lobos little train number the repetition of the short phrases that are meant to imitate the sound of a train, were, especially in the first bass, entirely inconsistent as to pitch, intensity, and tone. It's. a hard thing to maintain such phrases (such as the ever constant Alle:Juia, Alleluia, Alleluia) but there are some tricks to it, and if the club knows any of tltem, it did!l't show Tuesday night. strong, clear, round-sounding voice and a talent f()r singin_g.~ with a group, made his performance ex cell en t. Kirk Vyverberg, a freshman baritone, was also ex.cellent. Hisl'! • solo, in the E-R-1-E by Forbes, displayed not only a talent and control similar to Cole's, but also that extra indefin!lble knack 11 for making you believe you are listening to (in this cas.e) an Erie Canal boatman singing out abov~,, a storm.. LETTERS TO THE EDITOR No Victor To the Editor: At the present time the student council elections have not yet been completed. Th.is letter reflects no more on the victors of the campaigns than on those defeated. Student government existed for me in sixth grade as a popularity contest. In high school the thing to do was become an officer of the general organization to gain \fame\ and possible raise one's chances of admission to the college of his choice. Neither student government ever accomplished very, much other than a union of Al Kelleys' commenting on issues in which they really had no interest. Upon entering college, I expected to see institution of ~tudent government bec.oi'ne truly worthwhile. Unfortunately this has not been the case. As Don Kessler mentioned in the last issued of \Concordiensis \ \little action has been take~ on these issues\ (revising the claendar, comprehensive education, and revision of the grading system). Furthennore, I doubt sincerely that with the advent of the new constitutional reforms the student government will suddenly surge ahead into an era of hyperactivity. Looking over the unimpressive records of past student governments of this and other colleges, it seems that true student action is taken outside of the organs of the council. Student governments seem to be no more than stages where one may act and attain recognition by backing motions presented by ad hoc committees. In fact, it seems that the student council could be abolished and result in only detrimental effects on a few students' egos and on the length of the extracurricular activity list on some graduate school applications. On the other hand, the student government is not totally worthless. It is wor:th salvaging purely because it could be one of the chief pathways !by which the administration of this college can be approached :by interested students. What I suggest is that the student council shoul<l be c h an g e d into a t r:u e Athenian-type democracy- E2ch student in the school has ()ll~ vote. The choice of casting it{>r net would be up to the inciividual student. There would be \town\ meetings which arr:y interested student would be fre~ to attend. These meetings would take place at intervals of tiVCl weeks. The motions to be discussed at the meetings woul<l be deposited by their authorsin a box situated in a convenient campus location be tween meetings. The meetings and motions to be brought up would be publicized by \Concorcliensis\ before each meeting_ 1he meetings would be presided ever by an annually-elected chaiman w!-to would have no auth01ity other than parliameatarian, calling meetings to order and yielding the floor. Technical matters (such as the budge1) would be placed into the- hands of committees which wo.uld be voluntary. I feel that the student body of Union College should 11oi deay itself this test. If a.patliy truly reigns supreme, than the experiment will fail--and ii would deserve to. But, if the present student council members are sincerely interested in the welfare of the school, tltey would attend the meetings anyway. In this way no hacrn wo11ldhe dorte other than to allow a fevv different students who wo11ldhe truly interested in the school to participate in the c<>Ullc:il: meetings on equal footing with otllers present. Unfortunately ancl very unrealistically, tne ty]_)ical reaction to t];tis pr<lp<Jsal from those that fear their positions endangered is lilcely t() be that too many students would attend to meetings, Everyone reading this letter should reflect back to tne experience in the fall when the student meeting concerning coed week drew very small numbers of students. These type <Jf motions would be presented rarely, and when they were the turnout could be used by the administration to gauge the actual active support for certain issues. More probably the peo]_>le attending the meetings would be sincerely interested in the isslles being raised. At frrst the novelty would draw ma!ly dilettantes. After a few sessions these students, if not sincerely interested, would refrain fr<>m attending the meetings. In this way the actual body of the student government would1 become smaller at any given meeting and cont~in people that would have some feelings for the motions being brought up. ·I In eneral, there would be different people attending each meeting, thus giving many more 1 students a voice on issues with which they are concerned. I feel this is the only effective alternative making the studentl' government a worthwhile body - to the abolition of an organ of the college that is rapidly«> becoming vestigial. Sincerely, Stephen K()rnfeld '71 - ,, ACC Okays Drug Paper~ Olton: \No Raids Her~'' Continued from Page I \I don't want to see tais institution get busted,\ Olton said. Resident advisers and fraternity officers ought \to have all the help the College has available, from the Counseling Service, the Dean of Students, and others.\ Prof. Olton is president of the Albany chapter of the New York Civil Liberties Union arid a director of the state civil liberties organization. \My current feeling is that the present state and more particularly federal laws make criminals of 50 per cent of college students and that is absolutely wrong,\ he said. Avoid Busts Dean Malloy said that the new College security officer h.-as been specifically charged by the President with the responsibility of establishing good relatiens with outside .law enforcement agencies so that we can avoid busts and solve our own problems. . Prof. Olton, who was acting dean of students in the winter and spring of 1968, said that the College has ••pleaded\ with outside law enforcement people to have the Dean of Students or a person designated ,by him~ accompany them on any search they might make to protect students' tights. I) No Fishing Martin Lichterman, Dean of Center I, said that the President~ has expressly forbidden outside agents to go \fishiitg'~ for drug law violations on campus, but if these people get a search warrant~ from a judge, then there is absolutely nothing the College can do. Olton said ••so far as I know, I the law has no definition of privacy in a dormitory,\ or fraternity house. It is quite easy~ for police to get a judge's signature on a search. warrant for drugs oil a college campus, he added. I The next All College Council meeting will be May 28, when there will be a re-evaluation of parietals. Dean Malloy said there t1 are no unmanageable problems with parietals, but that the legislation that did a. way with 1 parietal restrictions provided for an ACC review before the end of the year. v. 1. .; ' MAY 9, 1~ BJ (Note. '69 inclw 3p.m Simp~ began de school. E Univ. of Philadelp He wi half feet Simp~ presentat 8:301 John Me John Advance1 0 · the futur ..,. ') . ; Artist executivt contribu; Policies f His, e: consultm 7 p.m 10 p. Mother's The]\ group wl The tJ banjo, Jc are versa The I personal 11 a.n Group the Unio front of~ 3 p.m Boston S· Mrs. [ Mariano< Shew music,'' ' with Mrs. 4p.m. Simpk t. participa1 One o Simpk (see TOI: 7p.m. Peter He began Harvard, His w' magazine Some Str Curre1 School ir Bound P1 A 25- Golden C \A Look In 19f 8:301 students The f~ 3p.m to p.• Universit £>rum what thi ha\'S-seen _,_:Glen: that Oru Union.\ In hi! present experien• Drum be misse1 4p.m Progr: Reynold Whear;\ 7 and admissio *Not1 campUSl FACt WE EKE! %> ___ _ '.

ll 'I! ,'.,-_:' II if} singing.l'l his Hisi'J. Forbes, and but knack 11 are Erie abov~,. of the would1 given ople that for the ,, be each more. 1 with I feel effective studentl' body of rapidly<> '71 - II' people or himti search protect ~ Dean of President~ outside for drug but if warrant., there is College know,l of ory,\ or easy~ judge's for he J) Council when of there t1 problems that the Nay with~ for he end of ' MAY 9 1969 v r---=B=-=-L--:-A--:::.::::::C=-=-K----:A--==R--T-S -F-E._,....,_....S T~I----V~AL,..__..,_ '· 'J 'J ~ • j (Note: The following is a ·c;alendar of this weekend's event~ in conjunction with A·rts Festival '69 including brief previews of ihe events listed.) TO.DAY 3 . .p.m .. in ~romt of Old Cht~p~l. presen~tio~by Phillip M .. SimJlkin, sculptor, free. S1mpkin IS a graduate of C<Jrnell Un1vers1ty where he d1d graduate work in print making and began doing environmental sc:·ulpture under the direction of Allan Kaprow of the avant-garde school. Simpkin held a fellow~hip from 196 7 to 1968 at the graduate school of fine .arts at the Univ. of Penn. He has exhibited: widely on the East coast and is .a teacher at the Free University in Philadelphia. His work has been·characterized by its psycho-sexual imagery. He will present two planned1pReumatic events, one involving .an inflated yellow tube four and a half feet in diameter and 200feet long. Participants are expected to enter the tunnel. Simpkin will also participate in a panel discussion (see McHale lecture) and will offer other presentations on Saturday. 8:30 p.ro. is SS 016, lectweand panel discussion on \Tqe Aris and Human Enviromnent\ with John McHale. Free. · John McHllle,. director of .the Center for Integrative Studies at SUNY-Binghamton's School for Advan<:ed Technology, will dis.cass \What is the· place of man in the technological future? What is the future ·of the fut1ire?\ Artist, writer, and sociologjst, McHale has taught in England and America. He was formerly executive director of the Wo1ld Res~>tuces Inventory at Southern Illinois University and is a contributor to the \Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science\ and \Social Policies for America in the Seventies.\ His exhibits have encompassed graphics, .exhibit design, television film and general design consultancy to organizations in_ Europe and the United States. 7 p.m. in SS 0 16*, lngmar llergamFilm \All These Women,\ free. 10 p.m. in Old Chapel*, (;C»ncer.t by John Cohen and The New Lost City Ramblers and Mother's Own Good Time Jug ]land, .free, The New Lost City Ramblers, who appeared at last year's Arts Weeke11d, are strictly a blue-grass group who play genuine country music derived from the Appalaehians. The trio, which has been pla:¥ing for the last ten years, consists.of Pete Seeger's brother Mike on banjo, John Cohen on guitar (tlld Tracey Schwartz on the fiddle. One.student noted that all three are versatile on all the instruments. The Ramblers have been at the center of the folk movement and are noted for the warm, personal atmosphere they create in coacert. TOMORROW,MAY 10 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the Library plaza, an afterno()n of music and musical groups, free. Groups performing will be the Cliff Safane Unit, Mindless Alfred and the Concrete Mixer and the Union College Brass Ensemble. Other groups may also be performing throughout the day in front of Schaffer Library. 3 p.m. in Memorial Chapel, workshop with Doriot Anthony Dwyer, solo flautist with the Boston Symphony Orchestra, free. Mrs. Dwyer studied with Er::nest Liegl, first flautist of the Chicago Symphony, and with Joseph Mariano at the Eastman Schobl for eigl1t years. She will lead a discussion on \The difference between preparing traditional and contemporary music,\ and will play any studoen t compositions. Woodwinds have been invited to sit on the stage with Mrs. Dwyer. 4 p.m. in SS 016*, Phillip M.Shnpkin, sculptor; discussion, films and slides, free. Simpkin will inflate a black bas, 20 feet by 50 feet, into which the audience will enter and participate in what Simpkin calls &'a tactile sensation experience.\ One or two other events are :possible and will lle spontaneously generated. Simpkin will be a member of the panel discussion following Friday's lecture by John McHale (see TODA Y's events). 7 p.m. in SS 016*, Peter Kane Dufault, poet, JlOetry reading, free. Peter Kane Dufault was born in Newark, N.J., in 1923, and was raised in Westchester County. He began writing verse in high school and began to have !:tis work published after graduating from Harvard, following World War Dservice as a co~pilot in Liberator bombers. His work has since appeared in the New Yorker, Atlantic, Haipers, Saturday Review, and other magazines and anthologies. He .is the author of three bGoks of verse, \Angel of Accidence,\ \For Some Stringed Instrument,\ an<l ._,A Westchester Farwell and Other Poems.\ Currently Dufault teachers creative writing and coaches soccer and fencing at the Barlow School in Amenia, N.Y., and t-eaches poetry at Williams College .. He has also taught in the Upward Bound Program (o.E;O.) at Marist College, Poughkeepsie. A 25-minute ftlm dealing ..vith his poetry and way of life won one of two Prizes given at the Golden Gate International Film Festival in SanFrancisco. The film, produced by CBS, is entitled \A Look the Other Way.\ In 1968 Dufault was the Lib-eral Party candidate for Congress from the 28th District. 8:30p.m. in Memorial Chapel*, a recital by Doriot Anthony Dwyer, free to college faculty and students only, $2 admission to the public. The featured work will be tne Boulez Sonatin.a. See 3 p.m. workshop for further .details. . 10 p.m. in Alumni Gymnasium*. Mix:ed Media Poly sensual Experience with Ryan Drum of the University of Massachusetts, free. £>rum has writted an 11-page report .of his \experience\ which cannot be compiled here. From what this reported \gleaned fr()om the report, however, and from the comments of a student who ha-.s-seen the \experience Dru:m should not be missed. .:.:Glen M. Rapoport '69, wh()o has met Drum, credits him with being \nearly a genius'' and feels that Drum's appearance at Union \Will be one of Jhe most exciting things that will ever happen at Union.\ In his report Drum says, \\'A multi-media polysensual educational environment attempts to present sufficient data inputs to give the recipient an e:x:p~rience substitute for the a<:tual experience.\ . . Drum's presentation will include visual images, sounds, ·slides, etc., and should not, once agam, . be missed. SUNDA'Y, MAY 11 . 4 p.m. in Memorial Chapel, the Union Williams Brass Ch~~s, ~ree. \ . . , Program for the concert will be \Nonet for Brass, Riegger; Theme and Vanahons, Reynolds; \'Prelude for Brass Quartete,\ Phillips; \Invocation and Study for ~r~~ Quartet,\ Whear \Voluntary for Old l80tn\ Purcell and \Symphony for Five-Part Brass Chorr, Ewald. 7 a~d 9 p.m. in SS 016, filin, '\cartouche\ staning Jean Paul Selmondo and Claudia Cardinale, admission 7 5 cents. *Note: Locations of certa:ln events are subject to change. Posters located throughout t\le campus should be consulted. FACULTY AND STUDEN:r ART EXIDBITS WILL TAKE PLACE ffiR.OUGHOUT THE WEEKEND. ~----------------------------------------------- DEWITT'S Cafeteria UtCI Tap Room Fine Food and Leg<JI B.ver:ages 118 • 120 JAY S\iHeT '. MARRIAGES BY MAIL $10 APPLICATION FO.RM $2 FAST SERVICE NO MAIL ANSWERED WITH~ OUT FORM FEE. William V. Trowbridge 35 Woodcrest Avenue Dayton, Ohio 45405 PAGE 3 latest Issue of Idol Reviewed: POETRY --Good, PROSE--fair The' editors and writers of the latest issue of The Idol have succeeded in meeting the need for a new look in college literary magazines. They have done so with a product that is almost totally successful in being pleasing from the point of view of both form and content. One is struck immediately upon opening The Idol by the freshness and readability of the layout. The seven different type faces are used to excellent advantage: there is rarely the feeling that the stories must be waded through (and in some cases this is not due to the excellence of the story), and the poems, prose and photographs have been arranged to be mutually beneficial, with poems superimposed on photographs and photographs used to illustrate or set off stories. However, a good looking magazine without worthwhile contents would be about as by PETER WEINGOLD Concordy Features Editor pleasing as a good looking dlind-date who turns out to be working for her junior high certificate: the outside is there but somehow you get the feeling that there's a lack of something. Nothing is lacking in editor Scott Siegler's final Idol. Siegler, 'besides contributing two of the best works, has collected, edited, and printed copy that is a1most uniformly excellent. The magazine is as rewarded to read as it is to merely flip through·· not only does it have a body, it has a mind, too. The Idol's mind is strongest in poetry and photographs with the prose generally tending toward sounding somewhat sophomoric. Union's fiction writers have not yet, it seems, gotten away from their desire to badly imitate Ernest Hemingway. With the partial exception of Gary Abramson in \Man of Letters,\ the press contributors seem too busy develloping writing styles and leave characters and stories to fend for themselves. Stephen Basset, in \The Rain\ produced the only piece with enough stylistic grace to make it acceptable. The poetry, although not uniformly good has several pieces which succeed in bringing up the batting average of all the p<>ems. As noted above, Siegler's works are standouts, with the poems by Rich Clemens, William Thurston . and pool building Steven Radlauer just as fine. With only one freshman excepti0n the poetry alone would make this issue of The Idol worth reading. Combined with the excellent photos by Ken Bousquet, Wayne Darling, and others; the drawings by numerous talented artists; the good but not great prose; and the great layout, this issue of The Idol is the fust of what we hope will be many that will be read carefully and with passion. Trustee Candidate Speaks For the second time in as many years, an election to pick an alumm trustee of Union College is contested. The campaign statements of both candidates were printed in the April, 1969 issue of the ·~union College Chronicle. , Below is the statement of Philip E. Duchscherer '39. He is the Alumni Council's designated candidate. The statement of his opponent, Dale A. Schnedier '66 is on page four. Naturally, it is quite an honor to be nominated to the office of Alumni Trustee by the Alumni Council. I accept this nomination with humility but with a deep sense of devotion and loyalty to the College. I think I can sefely say that I have been back to the campus every year since my graduation in 1939-visiting with friends, Papandreou Continued from Page 1 He organized a research institute in Greece responsible for the first serious analysis of the economic and social problems of the country. PAK Founder In February, 1968, he founded the Panhellenic Liberation Movement (P AK), which is active in Europe, the United States and Canada. He has written many articles for soch leading journals as \The Economic Journal,\ and \The American Economic Review.\ Among his books are \Economics As A Science\ and \Competition And Its Regulation.\ He received his doctorate at Harvard University where he taught until he went on to the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis as professor of economics. He then joined the Department of Economics at the University of California at Berkeley where he became chairman of the department. TAKE OUT SERVICE Hot Dogs- Hamburgs Hot Meals· Fish Fries CAVALIERS Oper. Mond cy th ru Friday 6 A.M.· l A;M, Friday and Saturday 6 A.M.· 4 A.M. Corner Erie Blvd. & Jeffe•son St. Phone 346-9153 attending Alumni Council Activities, Homecoming, Commencements and Alumni functions. Union has been engrained into the Duchscherer family, having educated my Dad, Class of 1911 ; my son David, Class of 1967; and now my nephew, Henry, Jr., Class of 1972. Since 1951, I have been partner in my own firm, doing business as a consulting engineer, specializing in structural design and industrial building design. I am registered engineer, specializing in structural design and industrial building design. I am a registered Professional Engineer in New York, Ohio, and Pennsylvania. On the many boards on which I have served in Western New York, I have found that a technical background, with an engineering approach and a flexible inter-pretation, are mighty advantageous to organizations in today's market. Education at Union, like that at other institutions, has to contend with program, personnel, facilities, administration, and policy. The College's Trustees have the responsibility of dealing with all of these facets. Men with professional experience and public recognition should make up this governing body. I feel I have that experience and can continue to contribute time and effort, not only as as admissions representative and a past president of the Alumni Council, but also as an active hard working Trustee. The PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP 262 Sqratoga R~ MAYFAIR SHOPPING CENTER At tha Sign of tha IlK! Neon Pipe TUES. lhru SAT. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. alao 1HUtS. and Rl.t 'f Jo 9 PM lCOnA. N.Y. Phone 399•1630 Traditional Natural Shoulder Clothing Jos. Nusbaum, Inc. 447-45 1 State Street Our 61 st Year in Downtown Schenectacly

PAGE 4 Shi·nag e I Elected Dr. Michael Shinagel, MAY 9, 1969 A MaHer of Principle An ·d p. ··r· ·a· g: · m•at1·c·s . ·R.·or·c ~~;i~~~f~J~t{fS . i ' . · • · · · · at its recent meeting .in Buffalo. · · Pro f. Shit:J.agel will be Monetary Fund Executive To Examine Gold Dollars Dr. Rudolf R. Rhomberg, assistant director .of the International Monetary Fund, will discuss current international monetary problems at 8 p.m. Thursday in the auditorium of the Social Science Building. they would supplement gold and the iJlternational reserve currencies, chiefly dollars and the pound sterling. doctorate from both the University 0f Vienna and Yale. Before becoming assistant 0 director, he Was ·chief of the special studies division of the International Mqnetary Fund'. He spent this past fall as a I visition research professor at Yale. by BILLOUZER C(Jrzcordiensis Managing Editor There comes a t·ime to say no. This college must emphatically say no to ROTC and to what it represents. We can deny academic rank to Air Force Officers; we can say that there courses do not meet our standards and require them to be extra-curricular; we:c<.Jn ask them to take their drilling elsewhere; but if we do we are merely mopping up the puss from around the wound, the poison and' 1he sore remain. ROTC means much· more than half a dozen officers teaching fifty or so students the forms and functioNs of war. It meaNs tha.E the Department of Defense has another foot in another dorway :and this is more than cause :for·concern, it is cause for alarm. Ostensibly, Armies. and Navies serve to defend freedom in this society with civilian control. The time has come when a true fighter for fr:~dom .must reject the uniform and stand where he is, telling the mthtary rt has EOne too far and it can go no further. As citizens we are faced with an 'e-ver increasing. ever more pernicious series of encro~ch1nents by out Defense Department. They now spend record breaking amounts ·of money on a war they say is to defend our freedoms. The stench of tire IVar in Vietnam is so strong that the perfumes ?f. pr~ss relea~s and' empty peace talks do little to cover it up. The mJustice and nnmorallty seep through tCJ disgust us. Now, we are concerned with n~o tiating a 'Peace' that will be fair, protect the rights of the Vietrnmese people. Nothing could be more ludicrous. We are striving to save face, to get some ,return on our investment. We are trying to wash out a damned spot without success now or ever while still m«Jre die. 40,000 Americans and countless Vietnamese have ll()W:I<Jst their freedom permanently and that truth spits bitterly on anyhiuce line drawn across a ravaged land. This is what the !Department of Defense has given us. This is their conscientious defense of our freedom. This is the rotten hateful war in which they dare to fly our flag. The temerity of ,the military is outrageous. The time for us to say halt. to tell them they -will be our diseased whore no longer is upon us and soon we maybe powerless to speak. One might argue tilai ROTC is the biggest hope of this nation for keeping a military w:lth humanistic substance. \fe have had ROTC. We have given them a change to give us a COil)passionate, sensitive armed forces and they~ in turn, have given us Vietnam. We can no longer tolerate this ab{)riion of our freedom. ROTC is an actively functioning branch of a Defense establishment wh.ichi:sbccoming less and less a seiYant and more and more a master. In its drive for self-perpetuation and self-aggrandizement ·it spreads its name, its influence and its money in contracts and defe11se related research. Perhaps good comes from these, but still, lurk..i11~ in the background, is the turning of all this to instruments of war. Naive as it seems, tne larger Military establishment we have, the more money we pllmJ into it, the more publicity we give it and the more places we alJ()w i1 to thrive, the more military a society we create. And the Inore militarily oriented a society we create the more likely W-f are to llne wm-. We can rightfully 'Wonder if a nation that condoned mammoth defense expenditures and research and development for so long could rightfully expect that the military machine it was building could exist without flexing its muscles, could exist without justifying itself by figllting. We have now seen that yve cannot support a military esbiblishment so lavishly. We must cut back. We must trim it back so ;that we manage it and it cannot lead us into 'escalations' and 'tacUcal reinforcements' amd wars that we try to win only because we <annat bear to say we have lost. The military will not withdraw from a war it is not winning no matter how unjust the cause. It knows tl1~t once it has lost its image of invincibility will be shattered, its repu-tation tainted, and its popularity and support diminished. ROTC must go, the military establishment must be brought in line, freedom must be :given a chance. Small voices, one might argue, do no good. Our NO to ROTC means that we realize the consequences of saying yes in any form and will not say yes to a branch of the Defense Department here; will not not say yes to providing them with facilities to train men for war and will not say symbolic yes to a vote of confidence. Instead, we will tell them, leave - and go back and tell your masters they are wrong and we are fed up. The cause is too :g•eat, the threat, potentially, too ominous for any group to hide llellirrd a false rationale of being too small, too weak or too far fromd1e center of power to make any difference. As free men and again ~s numbers of an academic C()mmunity we must stand and say to ROliC, -we have had you with us, we have given you a chance to do good and be part of an army and a defense establishment that is I'esponsive and responsible and now we have seen what you have <l~ne and we see what the larger whole you are a part of has done; you have brought us shame and given us fear. The t,ime has come for you (() leave. Boulevard Bowl ,1:35 ERIE BOULEVARD 40 AMiF BOWLING LANES - <lpen 24 Hours Daily - S~·tACK BAR ON PREMISES responsible for the college English sectiot:J. of the state organization. He is charged with· recruiting members into the coNnell from college English faculties in the state. the state English council is· the professional organization for; the state's English teachers, supervisors, and administrators.· It promotes the work of those: engaged in elementary, secondary, and college teaching of English as well as those engaged in ·the training of teachers of English. At the Buffalo meeting, Prof. Shinagel presented a seminar nn \1'he Aims of Teaching the Novel in High School and College.\ His address, \Gold Dollars, and Special Drawing Rights,\ is sponsored by the college's Department of Economics. Banking officials of the tri-city area are being invited to th:e lecture, Dr. Henry W. Behret:J.s said. Dr. Behrens, assistant professor of economics, has arranged the program. Special Drawing Rights, which Prof. Behrens expects will be created by the end of the year, will enable nations to settle their official accounts on paper. Known by their initials, SDR, The United States wants the first SRDs created at the International Monetary Fund meeting in September, Prof. Behrens said. He added that most European countries have taken exception to the American plan and would uather move more cautiously. Dr. Rhomberg holds a Dr. Rhomberg is a member of 1 the Committee on Ecot:J.omic Stability of the Social Science Research Council. • Two Union Students Selected for Ex,change • Two Union students have been selected to study abroad as participants in the St. Andrews and ETC exchange programs. William C. Yanson, a Union Concert Series Adds Bonus College student from 1 Mechanicville, will spend the next academic year at the University of St. Andrews, Scotland, on a Union College exchange program. The sophomore classics major was selected by a student-faculty committee from among many '\ applicants for the honor. The St. Andrews Exchange, started in 1937, is a reciprocal program for l students and faculty members of Union College and Scotland's oldest University. Three popular Capital District musical organizations will jointly present a bonus concert at 8:30 p.m. Wednesday, May 14, in the Schenectady Museum-Union College Concert Series. Performing in Memorial Chapel will be the Northeastern New York Philharmortia, the Skidmore College Madrigal Singers, and the Union College Chamber Singers. Five concerts had originally been scheduled for the season. The fifth concert, by the Lenox. Quartet, was held April 22. Series officials were pleased with local interest this season and, therefore, scheduled the ex.txa performance. The two college vocal groups will open the concert with Byrd's ''Ave Verum.\ The Philharmonia's opening selection will be ''Divertimento No. 2 in B flat major (K.l37)\ by Mozart. All three groups will join for Vaughan Williams' \Serenade t0 Music.\ Following intermission, the Philharmonia will present \Concerto in D major for String Orchestra\ by Stravinsky. Anthony Pezzano conducts the Philharmonia, with Edgar Curtis as artistic director. Hugh Allen Wilson, associate professor of music at Union, directs the Chamber Singers. Miss Ruth lakeway, associate professor of music at Skidmore, directs the Madrigal Singers. The Chamber Singers, part of Union's Glee Club, will sing at the National Cathedral in Washington, D.C., Sunday 5/11, and at Concord College, Athens, W.Va., on Friday Somers To Be Honored Will Receive Masters Wayne F. Somers, acquisitions librarian at Schaffer Library will be presented a rare honorary Master of Letters degree at commencement. Somers is being recognized for his promotion of professional standards of bibliographic research at the college. He edited \Plato's Theaetetus,\ by Tayler Lewis, compiled an index to ~·unfinished History of Uniori College\ by the late Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox, and a comulative index to the first five volumes of the \Union College Symposium.\ In progress is a checklist of science books in Schaffer Library printed before 1800; an author index to \Poole's Index to Periodical Literature, 1802-1881; and a bibliography of Tayler Lewis. Somers joined the Schaffer Library staff in 1962. He is a member of the Bibliographical Society of America, the Bibliographical Society of the University of Virginia, and the Averican Civil Liberties Union. He is executive director of the Society for the Censure, Reproof and Arraignment of Published Error. A CAUSA PAROLE Gary Aitken, a Union College - student from Bellevue, Wash., has be'en selected by the college to spend the next academic year at Eidgenossische Technische .t Hochschule (ETH) at Zurich, Switzerland, one of the finest technical institutes in Europe. Aitken is a sophomore with a combined electrial engineering and physics major. The ETH exchange, begun in 1961, permits students of science or engineering to spend a year at the institute. ETH )l attracts students from all over the world. Selection as an ETH Scholar is an honor. Union students who attend ETH receive free tuition and may also receive financial assistance through Union. PERSA ASSAI I\ REPORT FROM LONDON by RICHARD PATTERSON JR. Academic activity at the London School, Economics has ground to a halt as the result of a strike '>y about half of the schools students and academic staff. The strike began on April 21, the fust day of the spring term after the schools Court of Governor's {Trustees) announced the fuing of two junior lecturers. Robin Blachburn, 28, assistant lecturer in Political Sociology, and Nicholas Bateson, 33, lecturer in Social Psychology, were charged with supporting the removal by students of internal security gates within the school. This action led to a four week closure of the school early last term. The fuings were announced on April lB. ON STRIKE Meeting on April 21, the students called for a student strike and boycott of classes until the lecturers were re-instated. By the end of the first week of the strike, teaching and class attendance had been cut in half. Teaching staff, disturbed by the dismissal of two Colleagues, also joined the strike. One teachers union, the Association of Scientific, technical and Managerial Staff, (A.S.T.M.S.) which controls 10% of the schools teaching staff, has begun an indefinite strike. The preatigious law department, the history department, the s,:>cial administration department, and the sociology department, of which the two lecturers were members, have all gone on strike. Library staff and research assistants have joined, also. It now appears likely that the national A.S.T.M.S. will declare the strike by the LSE branch official early next week. In that case, all other unions would be called upon to refuse seiYices to LSE. NO FOOD Since the strike began a week ago, student pickets have turned away 90% of all supply deliveries (food, books, office supplies, etc) coming dialy to the school. The student left in Britari has been a strong supporter of British trade unions in recent · years, and now it is finding a valuable reserve of sympathy among labor unions whose members serve the school. The schools' cafeteria, without fresh deliveries of food all week, may have to close sobn if the strike goes on. The administrations first response to the strike came at the end of the ftrst week, when the schools' director, Dr. Walter Adams, read a statement from the Governors, promising that an independent review of the Cases of the two lecturers would begin soon. Earlier in the week, the student body called for such a review. NO CONFIDENCE The announcement came at a meeting of the schools' academic staff at which it seemed probable that a similar motion calling for an independent review would pass. The day before, Dr. Adams said he considered approval of such a motion \a Vote of no confidence.\ After the announcement, the staff voted to recommend ·imme-diate re-instatement of the two lecturers until completion of the review. · · I have been hit hard by the firings, as I had classes .. witnbOTh\~ Blackburn and Bateson, leaders of the militant young socialists in Britian. Final exams begin here in 1 , about three weeks, but there'has been no work on re- instatement of the two lecturers, another junior lecturers' case is still being considered, and 10 students charged by the school jn connection with rem9ving the gates go on trial this week so the - strike may go on some time yet. VACATION FOR TWO $20.00 4 days, 3 nights. at deluxe Hotels Miami Beach or Las Vegas Transportation not included-~--­ Cettificate must be ordered direct . from this ad. (ENCLOSE $20.) . FRE'E EX'fR,AS ORDER EARLY FIVE DAY MONEY BACK GUARANTEE William V, Trowbridge MAIL ORDER 35 Woodcrest Avenue Dayton, Ohio 45405 .. I} I} IJ I) p B: I • The is that While p While p die. Th power : time, ar to a n momen increasi do any peacefu place gover1111 that it \Well we can they beginni.J Son change that th are ob~ make t idea oi have be sixties movem' as the v mana 1 change< decided patema white 1 was ha Columl the me to such on its b So, traditjo ineffecJ have fc often change. throw out o traditic may stand respom Columl reachin comm com r OCCUI comm open,\ people reform them d Hopeft come a At of the traditic tried a then s and n( solve tl Onl occupa gymw a trad would comm Spra• co piE sell in Sugg' cost $29.1 doze

9, 1969 the Yale. assistant 0 of the of the Fund. .as a I at 1 Science • • from the 1 at the College major many ~, St. arted in l of College - Wash., college year t · Zurich, finest with a in of a ETH )l all over Scholar ntswho tuition in fl being jn the so the · yet. NTEE .. .. Secoard Of A Series Perspectives On Protest Alan Ziegler, ex-features editor 8/ Concordiensis, is a founding editor of The Paper Highway. This series about the radical student movements will centinue for three more installments. i . . I} I} By ALAN ZIEGLER Second .of a Series The thing about issaes today is that they are so immediate. While people talk, a gym is built, While peace talks go on, pe0ple die. The response of those in power is often to just stall for time, and this is often equivalent to a refusal. Things gain such momentum that it becomes increasingly diffucult for one to do anything about them. While peaceful protests were taking place against the war, the government got so \committed\ that it eventually replied with, \Well maybe you're right, but we can't pull out now.\ But if they had listened at the beginning? Sometimes institutions change in such a plodding way that the changes they do make are obsolete by the time they make them. For example, the idea of Columbia's gym m'ight have been acceptible in the early sixties during the Civil Rights movement. It was conceived of as the white man doing the black , man a favor. But the times they changed and the black man decided that he didn't want such paternalistic favors from the white man, especially when he was hardly consulted about it. Columbia University didn't have the mechanisms for responding to such change, and so it just sat on its big morrass. So, because radicals feel that traditj0nal protests are either ineffective or too slow, they have found the need for new, often disruptive methods of change. The whole idea is to throw the system sufficiently out of equilibrium so that traditional methods of change may be circumvented and standard administration responses are inadequate. At Columbia, the effect was far reaching within he entire college community. Eric Bentley c o m m e n ted after the occupation, \A whole community is busted wide open,\ and \There are a lot of people around who want the reform of Columbia. Most of them didn't until a month ago.\ Hopefully out of the chaos will come a new order. At Columbia, the prototype of the disruption syndrome, traditional methods had been tried and failed, the s'thool was then shaken up by disruption, and new ways were found to solve the problems. Only two days after the occupation, construction on the . gym was halted. lf this had been t' · \ a traditional picket, the result would probably have been committees, discussions, and t' IJ I) DEALERS WAN1ED Spray Perfumes, Ounce size · copies of very famous brands selling up to $60 per ounce. Suggested retail $3.50. Your · cost $11.25 dozen; 3 dozen $29.00; 6 dozen $53.00; 1.2 dozen $101.50. WM. TROWBIUDGE 35 Woodcrest Ave., Dayton, Ohio 45405 then perhaps the trustees would: have con.sidered it at their next regular Jneeiing. More words to sprinkle the air and settle like dust wliile the gym would inch further into the Harlem sky. But a:s a result of the crisis created lly the radicals, a new organization, the Ad Hoc Faculty Group, was formed, and they proposed that the gym be ,halted. The trustees had a special meeting and acceded to this request. The results were quick, and by hitherto um!$ed means. S.D.S. feels that the medium is sometimes more important than the message, and the life style of the revolutionary more impor.tamt than specific issues, This tot1ches a major problem: Is what is !~oing on at univel\!lities a series of demonstrations, or the beginning of \the revolution\ itself? If they are demonstrations, then one maneuvers and negotiates the best possible settlemtot. However, if they are rehearsal:s for the revolution, then the demands are \non-negotiable\ and are secondary to the confrtontation as an extended radicalizing experience. A confrontation forces those in the middle to take sides and \live the revolution.\ Violent confrontations often radicalize studen:t s by dramatically showing them that the administration has no moral power over the students and must therefore rely on physical force to control them. Liberated buildings are run the way S.D.S. would like to see everything run .after tlle revolution; by the tenets of participatory democracy. A proposal is made, a seemittgly endless group speaks to it, and the fmal decision is made ••by the people.\ The :goal then is to radicalize as many students as possible, even if they must sacrifice immedia:te gains for the long range g()al of the revolution, (which will occur when enough people :have been radicalized). Thus, many S.D.S. members would rather extend the confro11tati()n than settle for compromises, because they feel that th-ere is more value in. struggle than in watered down reforms. PETITIONS Petitions for All College Cou11~il Offices will be availa!Jle starting Monday, May 12 at the Student Activities office. Now's The Time To MARRY ME Spri.tig catches a young man's fancy Buy your Wedding Ring at Maurice Graubart & Sons Jewelers, 166 Jay St. Serviltg Union for 3 generations. · Do'Win to Louis', let us g6, Lef the lager freely flow. :rhe question of whether to settle for reforms has not been totally resolved (at San Francisco State, the radicals eventually negotiated the non negotiable demands) ·but it is clear that S.D.S. is opting for the revolution. Mike Klonsky, S.D:S. National Secretary says that the demands don't really touch the real issues because those that have the power to grant them are \trying to perpetuate the system and we're trying to end it.\ He makes it clear that S.D.S. is out to destroy the university as it exists now when he says ''Under capitalism, the perfect school would be one that doesn't function, that is shut down.\ T'he demands for reform that accompany every ·revolt then, are paradoxical; radicals feel that the system needs racism so it can never voluntarily rid itself of it. Some demands just try to get rid of intermediate problems so that the real issues can be crystalized, but the radical position is that there will have to be some kind of revolution before the changes they desire can be instituted. Demands usually serve the propose of radicalizing students. They key problem .for S.D.S. concerns that amorphous group of \non members but supporters\ that are necessary fC:Jr any of their actions to be succes.ful. They must radicalize these people to .their analysis of the causes of the various issues. This issue, the question of the destruction of the university, the · confrontation, participatory democracy, and whether or not we are in a revolutionary society will be examined critically in following articles. RECITAL At 8.:30 p.m. on Tuesday, May 13, Prof. Hugh Allen Wilson will present a harpsicord ·recital in the Fox House Lounge. The informal · recital is sponsored by . the Fox House R.A.'s and all Union students are invited. Sherry will be served. M 0 0 N T R I P RESERVATIONS. RESERVATIONS NOW BEING ACCEPTED FOR TRIPS TO THE MOON. TOTAL COST $1500, $10 DOWN AND $10 A MONTH. APPLICATION $2 I NO MAIL ANSWERED WITH OUT APPLICATION FEE. William V. Trowbridge 35 Woodcrest Avenue Dayton, Ohio 45405 A llniqlde place to dine with old European Atmosphere ·NlCHOLAUS R~ESTAURANT Since 1895 - Cornfl' 2o6 State and Erie Blvd. NOW IN OUR 14th YEAR ,f!)r r.~servatioru phone ftt 4-8917 PAG:E '5 Schneider, Class of 1966 ~Seeks Trustee Seat Votes For ,tf.4e second time in as many yerz:rs. an election to pick ,an alumnus tTUstee of Union College is ~conte~;ted. The .campaign statements of both :candidrztes were printed in the April, 1969 is8l.le o{:the \Union College Chronicle.\ Below is the statement of Dale A. Schneider '6-6. He was entered in the race by a. petition from his fellow alt.e:mni. The statement of his opponent. Philip E. ])uchscherer '39 is on page three. Dale 1\. 'Schneider '66 The t!rst and most important point of rny view of the college is also the 'hardest to defme: spirit. It was a sad day when school spirit was identified with cheerleaders alone, for the whole range of intellectual and social factors has been in eclipse wherever tnen held that view. Union's spirit has much in common with other colleges' in devotion to free inquiry and commitment to serve society. Union's spirit is also unique in our being the first interdenominational college, in the terrace wall tradition, arid in our balance of tecll.ni.cal and liberal studies. My next point is that education is never complete in the mere transfer of informati()n; if it were we could simply leave the students to teaching machines. Our ideal of a balanced cuniculum is at least part of the answer to the cry for meaning in a career. Comprehensive Education must continue to :grow until we have students seeing their specialties in the light .of all the technical and moral complexities of the world in wh.ich they will practice these specialties. To this end, student participation in policy making should be at a maximum,. for real responsibility is a necessary part of full (dare I call it moral?) education. Activity, learning and serving, off-campus is also helpful for teaching that life does not always come as neatly packaged as textbook problems. The student's mind should be enlarged by _the real world before it can set into any ivory-tower pattern, perhaps frozen for life. If we wish to give a man a C()mplete education we must expose him to as many leaming ex:periences as possible, while maintaining an opportunity(e.g. Comp. Ed.) for reflection and integration. Yet even when oae has been exposed to a wide range of courses and activities~ education is not necessarily complete. We must ask our students to enter into their education in such a way (as we also must) that they themselves may be changed. In social morality this demand is already acknowledged by many students; some have allowed the needs of the poor io re-shape their own lives. We aeed as well evaluation of n arms for individual conduct. 1\.s a private, non-denominational college, we have full freedom to discuss personal~ religious, and moral issues; our learnin.g is very shallow without this. This would mean risking real C()nfrontation in classes and conversations (rather than on the street). It would mean hiring our professors for sensitivity and conunitrnent as wen as the number of degrees they have. Eventually it should mean students who understand themselves and their society as well as a professional specialty, students who will live their professions responsibly to their society and themselv-es. From these geneTal points, I turn now to certain specific issues which a trustee must face. We may have de.cided for co-education by June-if not, 1 will continue to work .for it. Our society is very obviously making a mess o.f sexuality, using it for selling ,toothpaste or advancing in business, rather than for mutual support and enrichment and child-bearing. We need a new understanding and valuation of sex. Some have said that these attitudes cannot be changed, but this ignores the real searching that many young men are doing in sexual experimentation. Se:x can ·be better and many people want something better. Thoeretically, a ew valuation might be possible without going co-ed, but I doubt it. Men are not likely to form the necessary respect and open-mindedness toward women as long as women are seen oruy in the weekend situation. Fraternities are an important part of the Union spirit; we should maintain them if we can. I had a go()d four years in Phi Delta Theta. Yet l can freely concede titat any fraternity which goes against the basic goals of college life, thus failing to live up t() the professed ideals of a fraternity, is no longer entitled to a place on campus. They are excellent groups for encouraging that close friendship which susta.ins a man in reaching for higher goals. Apart from this they haven() justification. Athletics are also a significant part of college life and should be encouraged. Conditioning and competition were very good for me; I think that others will also benefit from them. At the very minimum, we should help each student to build a .body healthy enough to hold up past graduation. Emphasis in intercollegiate sports should, of course, be on participation rather than glory, although the outstanding performer should receive recognition. The present dispute over the physical educatien program shows a need for some change here. There probably should be a voluntary program, rather than required, for most of the years. I must admit, however., that no administrative program will be effective until the students and faculty of the college value physical fitness more highly. Before closing I will make one campaign promise: if elected, I will keep up with developments in higher education so that I can act intelligently as a trustee. I have already begun this in reading and in visiting other colleges. The primary reason I feel that you shotdd elect me is that I feel the policies above are sound. Other factors do, however, enter into the election. As a graduate student, 25 years old, I do automatically stand as a symbol to many people. Some people may assume I represent revolt-they should re-read the statement above. I accept •my role as a representative of younger alumni, but for constructive change. I hope that my election would spark the students and alumni to constructive action, when they can feel that the trusteeship, our highest power, is open to new blood and constructive change. S-tripes That Whisper Like your stripes soft-spoken? Here's the Deansgate 2-ply Dacron® polyester and worsted suiting that is barely audible. Quiet, too, Deansgate's understated natural shoulder construction. It makes a great dress-up suit. In varied colors. $85.00 Deansgate Dall's Men's Shop 1599 UPPER UNION STREET ' .,

_________ C_- · ·_on_c~o~rd _ ___L_y_S~p_o_rt_,·s~---.: ~ PAGE 6 MAY 9, 1969 Weekend Cruc,ial Fo:r Batsmen • .• By BILL .lfOLLERAN The Gamet llascball team faces its most uucial test of the season this weekend, when the diamondmen :lt ost the Larries from St. Lawrence this afternoon on Alexander Field, and meet the Golden Horde from Clarkso!l tomorrow in Achenectady's Oentral Park. I Junior star second baseman Ken Pearce driving the first home run ever hit by a Union batsman at Alexander Field on Saturday. His hitting, and continued fine pitching are the keys t() Garnet victories this weekend. The Larries, especially, will be tough for the :Dtltchmen. Last season the St. Lawrence nine was one of only two teams to beat the Gamet, topping them 4-2 to end an eight-game Union winning streak_ This year the Larries are just as tough, and should give the 'Dutchmen quite a tussle today. The game is so importaHt, in fact, that the outcome may very well determine the l.C.A.C. Stickmen Top Trinity, Fall To Raiders By HENRY FEIN and JAY BLITZM:AN Playing without tV~o-thirds of the starting defense, the Union College lacrosse team bested their visitors from Trinity yesterday, winning a somewhat uninspiring con test, 84. The Garnet are now 4-5, having suffered a 7-5 defeat at Colgate Tuesday. The squad travels to Alfred tomorrow in an attempt Track Pattern Continues; Varsity Loses, Frosh Win The scenario remains the same for the 1969 Garnet track teams: the varsity dropped another meet to fall to 1·5 for the season while the frosh continue to highly impress. Middlebury topp~a the harriers. 80-60, Wednesday, while the frosh tied Cobleskill for first at the LeMoyne Relays Monday. Both squads host the ICAC Championships tomorrow. The varsity took six. of eight running events from the Panthers, but failed to win a single field event. On the track, Middlebury was able to capture firsts in only the mile run and the 440 relay. Art Riccio won the I 00 in I 0.8 and took second in the 220 behind Pete Ericks-on, who was clocked in 23.7. The Ia tter also took the 440, winning in 53.0 seconds. Terry McManus continued his ou !standing season by totalling 13 1/4 p-oints for the 4lfternoon. He won the 880 in 2:03.9, took seconds in the mile and triple jump, and added a third in the javelin. Terry also ran a leg of the victorious mile relay, which was timed at 3:25.5. Jo\1n Brahams finisl1ed second behind McManus in the 880. Joe Burgess took the two mile in 10:17.5, with Dick Cooperwasser third. _Weight men George Gardner and Ed Blechner did well, but nctther could come llp with a win, and this greatly hurt the Garnet, who l1ave come to expect sterling performances from the seniors. Tl1cy have kept many meets close, but were defeated Wednesday as Gardn<lr tO{lk second in the shot and third in the discus, while Blechner did the revers~. Norm L3Sda took second in the long jump, while Paul Elliot and Mario Fischetti finisltcd ihird in the 120 High and 440 Intermediate Hurdles, respectively. The frosh preserved their unblemished record with a fine perfnnmm(:c at Lc:\1oyne. The 880 relay took first place, as Steve Andreski (23.1). Bruce Cobb (24.7), Steve Wood (22.2), and Rick Jaszcz;ak (24.2) all performed well. The middle distance men also impressed with a second place in the two-mile relay. Larry Kenny (2:10.8). Dave Rice (2:15), Bob Sweet (2: 15) and Larry Thornton (2:09) combined for runner-up laurels.. \ The medley relay took third, with Cobb (23.8 for a 220), Wood (51.8 for a 440), Jaszczak (2:02 for the 880) and Paul Forbes ( 4:4 7 for the mile) alllooki11g good. Tm11orrow, both S<Jllads will host the ICAC championships, with field events finals getting under way at 10:00. along with trials in the runni11g events. Track final will begin at 2:00 p.m., RPI, who defeated the Garnet WS-40 last week, is expected to successfully defend its title against St. Lawrence, Clarkson, Hobart, Alfred, and Union. The varsity will host Hobart, in its first season of varsity comp~tition, Tuesday on Alexander Field before traveling to Alfred Sat urciay for the New York Sta tc Championships. DIAMANTE'S Enioy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Co111fortable Dini11g Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on NoH Stre.t Open Doily 1 0 t.o A.M. Sunclays 5 P.M. I<> 1 A.M. VROO·MAN'S Beer- Grocieries Cold Cuts Magazines- Pastry 200 Nett Terrace Schenectady, N.Y. 12307 FR 7-9B34 to reach the .500 plateau before powerhouse Syracuse invades Wednesday. A three-goal, game-tying rally by the Garnet went for naught Tuesday, as the Red Raiders scored twice in overtime to take the contest. Mike Chater scored the only goal for the Garnet in a I -1 first half, as defense dominated the contest. Both sophomore standout Pup Gould and junior Kevin Mono han missed the game due to in jury, and were replaced by Steve Herrick and Bill Dwyer. Colgate scored twice in the third period to take a 3-1 lead before Steve Bauer brought the Garnet back to 3-2 as the quarter ended. Again the Colgate stickmen rallied, advancing to a 5-2 bulge before the Union squad caught fire. Bauer scored to make the count 5-3, fol1owed by Doug Duval, who oppped in two in .a row to knot the score. Jim Sabella assisted 011 Duval's first goal, while 13ruce Dugan made the feed for the tying tally. The Garnet attack was spent, however, and Colgate regained control in overtime. The Red Raiders finally broke through a tenacious Garnet defense for the go-ahead score with only 1 :40 to play, and added the clincher Phone 372-0528 PARK PIZ Z:E R.IA I tal iaTJ Grinders Our Specialty Behind Dovi dson Hoi I- One Block fran the Campus 25 Park Place Sch en ectcdy,. N.Y. with 22 seconds. remaining. Garnet T e>~ Trinity The first period of the Trinity contest was also marked by the inability of both squads to consistently ~enetrate on offense. Trinity's use of a zone ride in the initial stages of the stanza hampered the Dutchmen's efforts to clear the defensive zone. With 5:45 to go in the first period, crease attackman Mike Chater scored from out in fnmt on a solo after the Bantam goalie lost control of the ball. Less than one minute elapsed, however, before Trinity registered the tying goal on a shot which barely eluded goalie Ed Green. Near the end of the period, middie John Howell hit his linemate Jim S:ab ella on a fine pass with only twenty seconds left the erstwhiJe field goal kicker put it !tome to provide the hosts n 2-1 lead. As t he s.e c o n d peri od progressed, the Garnet began to establish control of the play, with middie Bru.(;e Dugan upping the lead to 3-1 (:Jn a solo dash. DEALERS WAf\ITED HOME MAILO~OER WORK Run new fast $6.00 pulling ad over your name, in any circular or publication, keep $5.00 of each $6.00 you receive. We fill orders for $1.00. Rush $6,00 for sample circulars and copy of ad. William V. \Trowbridge 35 Wood crest Avenue Dayton, 0 hiC> 45405 SUNY FULL-YEAR STUDY PROGRAM 1969-70 TEL AVIV UNIVERSITY An accredited program open also to Non-SUNY students. Earn 36 credits. Courses offered in all disciplines. Sorne scholarships available. For applications and more information fill in and n:1ail coupon immediately to: ISRAEL YEAR PROGRAM State University College Oneonta, N.Y. 13820 Year in school ......................................... Major ............ · ..... Major School now attending ................................................................. . Name ....................................................................................... · ... . Address ........ _ .............................................................................. . City ............................................. State .................... Zip Ch:Jmpionsh·i p. ·Clarkson Easier The Cla1:kson game, however, is a diffcrcn t story. The G a·rnct downed the Golden Horde last season by u 4-t score, and should not wn into too much diffictllty on Saturday afternoon. H1c outcome of the St. l.awreincc game, however, could de fin Hely influence the performance of the Dutchmen. If the Gamet lose to the Larries, they could be ripe Por an upset Saturday, while if they beat St. La\VreHce,.Clarkson might just as welL have -never made the trip do~n from Potsdam. Neidel Stars J.n racing to a fine 5-0 start, the Garnet have so far shown much of last season's 9c2 form: excellent pitching and adequate hitting. Righty Bill Neidel, of course, is anchoring the staff with a remarkable 0.37 ERA. Neidel has only given up one earned run in 24 1/3 innings -of work, and in compiling a nifty 3-0 record, has struck out 21 and waiked only five. Earlier this season the Garnet team captain was sporting a 17 1/3 inning slmtout streak, which came to an abrupt end last Saturday when Drew scored a run in the top of the first inning. Larry Berkeley, a sophomore, who ow11s a complete:game shutout in his only start, ·and Joe Douglas, who picked up a win in his first start in three years versus R.P.I., have backed up Neidel to hurl the Garnet into a five-game· unbeaten streak. The Garnet pitching staff, inciJl!ntaHy, has spun a faiH.:y I .W ERA so far. Light Hitting Ill Garnet hitting so far has been •comparatively light, wirtll the .team hittiHg .232 after fivc1 games. The Dutchmen have banged uut thirty-three hits so far, but only five of these have been for extra bases. Ken Pearce I .the Garnet second-baseman: owns three of them, .having cracked two doubles and a 1 !Gargantuan home-run in batting his way into a tic for the team 'b at tin g-ave rage I e ad with right-fielder Jim Wilson. Bothe Garnet batsmen are currently spHting fine .333 marks. Nets Dumped, 8-0; ICAC's Coming Up 0 By BRUCE GARBER After a rough weekend 2' i · Rochester and Hamilton, the · Garnet hosted a powerhouse M·iddlebury tennis team Wednesday. Disappointed byl .their weekend performances, and knowing how strong Middlebury had been in past 1 matches, the netmen were not .. up\ for the match, and were defeated, 8-0. Sixth singles man, AI Meise'!, 1 who dropped his match in three sets, said, \No one played to his potential this afternoon,\ and attributed the loss to poor• morale and the intimidation of the squad by Middlebury's past performances. Every other 1 singles match lasted only two sets, with Middlebury dominating each. .............................. · DOUBLE YOUR PLEASURE! DOUBLE YOUR PLEASURE ... by berng rmpeccably double· breasted. One way to be expansrve, our s1x-buttoned blazer of f1nest polyester:warsted hopsack. Pleasurably light and cool, 1t IS crafted wrth unusual attentron to styling details. Note the extra long s1de vents. authontat1ve lapels and smoo.th fall of the shoulders. A try on? Our pleasure. by STANLEY BLACKER $60.00 I I .I © Meeting ·'Senate constituti0f student go, Concordien ·'and autos Financial A Convene . Senate Pre! the Senate Ross Frase Student T ~ Senate recc that it not print the r1 ~ P-valuations. · Fraser r Tax Co!Tl1Iti course eval Jj ustify th Fraser belie be rendere expense wi · Library ~ communica approved , abstentions Turning the Linebac on record - supporting conducted week of tl booklet for Len S candidate fi • in the late the Senate • Concordien not file an: term. In th Peter Dr Concordien •a constituti and could 1 the· newspa issue whe1 brought tlu the recomr term by . Publication~ Simon , Howard Bl committee 'publication! to make Concordy was refern: Committee' Relating on the ) •Brown, '71 some discu 14, 10 ami ..,of Walt Vice-Presid..€ postpone a could be fa Committee until a m€ could be i1 meeting. Ivan Tet for discussic tSystem for that he did \feasible 01 Gerry Hym previous ex had \caus( straw poH c ·31 were ag~ one in fa, dropped. Referrill! 'Co ncordie11 moved tha1 abolishing i , .Hall type o Stephen K Blitzman p< was mere!) _really vita

.. ·,) • 9, 1969 • . . ,. Founded at Union College 1877 a fan\.:y • has been the fter five1 have e hits so have Pearcc,l asc man, .having :.md a 1 n batting the team with Bothe currently 8-0· ' o :1' i ton, the s team byl strong in past 1 not were Meisc'l,l in three to his and to poor• of past other 1 two e bury J. I -~ © V9l. 98,NO. 47 -~~slerlakes Office -·S;~n.ateAction Varied J Meeting last night the Stude n! ·'Senate tabled a ,propo:sed constitutional amendment t() abolish student government and probed ·in t0 Concordiensis, the academic calendar ·'and autos for students ·receiving Financial Aid. Convened by uewly elected Student . Senate President Donald Kessler '71, the Senate first heard a proposal by Ross Fraseu, '70, Chaitman of the Student Tax Committee that the ~ 'Senate recommend to Concordiensis that it not proceed with its plans to print the results of Fall Term course ~ P-valuations. · Fraser reported the sense of the Tax Co1Tl1Ilittee was that the use of the course evaluations as printed did not ;justify the expenditure involved. Fraser believed the same service CQUld be rendered with considerably less expense with a judicious use of the · Library and other facilities for communication. Fraser's motion was approved 28 to 2 with three , abstentions. Turning to broader consideration of the Linebacker issue the Senate went on record by a vote of 28 to 1 as - supporting a student course evaluation conducted in classes during the last week of the term and published in booklet form three times a year. Constitution Len Simon, '70 unsuccessful candidate f0r student senate secretary • in the late elections, then moved th~t the Senate resolve to cut.o ff funds for Concordiensis if that organization did not file an acceptable constitution th.is term. In the debate that followed D. Peter Drotman, '69, a former Concordiensis Editor pointed out that ,a constitution for concordy did exist and could be found in bade issues of the newspaper thus making the real issue whether the newspaper had: brought tltat constitution in line with the recommendations made late la.st term by the Student Council . Publications Committee. Simon withdrew his Ill()tion and Howard Blank '70 proposed that a committee of student senators and 'publications representatives be formed to make recommendati()ns on a Concordy constitution. The matter was referred to the Committee on Committee's. Relating the views of his living unit on the Academic Calendar John •Brown, '71,. saidthat there had been some discussion of a 4-3-2 featuring 14, 10 and 8 week terms. On a motion discussion followed and a vote of 19-7 tabled tl::!e motion.· New Senate Post Proposing another corrstitutional amendment, Walt Spencer advocated the creation of the post of student body treasurer for the chairman of the Tax Committee. Spencer said that recently he had detected much ••antagonism\ towards the committee and felt that this was \largely due to misunderstanding.\ Making the Tax Committee chairman an officer of the Student Senate he felt would open lines of communication and help correct the misconceptions. According to constitutional provisions the proposal could not he v0ted upon until next meeting. During this time members will consult with their constituents. Quoting a letter from Calvin Plimpton, President of Amherst,,Gerry Hyman proposed that the .Student Senate endorse the document, which was sent by members of the Amherst community to President Nixon and outlines the specifics of student unrest explaining these to be legitimate, widely held grievances, and recommend to the President of the College that he, too, affix his signature. Concomittantly the Senate passed by 28-2 an addendum to the Amherst letter stating that the Congress should not undertake the legislatio·n of sanctions against demonstrators or suggest the interference of outside authorities in campus problems. A resolution in support of automobile privileges for those students on financial aid was tabled and referred to the living units for consultation. It will be discussed at the next meeting. Finally, John Brown, chairman of the student senate committee on student faculty committees reported that his gf()up was conducting a survey to assess the nature of student in v o 1 vemen ts on the twenty -one standing committees with an eye toward evaluating how important the student voice is in each instance. Ralph Mosher, consulting engin~er for General Electric, and creator of CAMS, will sp€ak on campus at 11 :30 a.m. Thursday. A recognized authority on remote handling systems, he will discuss his unique feedback system which lets the handler \feel\ what the machine is doing. SCHENECTADY, N.Y., MAY 13, 1969 Eugene Nickerson scores ABM plans in a Union address Monday. Gamelan Band A group of Union students and faculty will present an open-air practice and demonstration of Javanese Gamelan music at 12:30 p.m. tomorrow in the Library Plaza. Interest in the organization was stimulated by Thomas R. Tripp, a student in his fourth year of a five-year program, who spent time in Indonesia with Ws parents. The group will be using authentic musical ~instruments, which Tripp notes are relatively easy to learn to play. He added that interested persons may play along with the group at its outdoor practice. PRICE TWENTY CENTS N icke:rsonB:IastsABM Condemns Militarism Nassau Cmmty Executive Eugene Nickerson, an outspoken critic of President Nixon's anti-ballistic missile system, urged a Union College audience last night to write to the 18 U.S. Senators who are undecided on the issue and ask them to vote against it. Nickerson, who is the first Democrat to serve as Nassau County executive, came equipped with lists of the 18 uncommitted Senators and distributed them to the sparse crowd. Live Planet \Write to the Senators who are on the fence,\ he urged, \and tell them where you stand.\ \To do so,\ he continued, \would be to do your part in helping to keep this planet alive.\ Nickerson criticized former President Johnson as weU as President Nixon for their roles in creating the ABM. \Johnson said the ABM was a thin system designed to protect us from the Chine.se, but it was really a defense against his Republican opponents in the 1968 election,\ Nickerson charged. Missles, Not People \The Tricky Dick of the '50s is back,\ he continued; \Nixon took the ABM away from the cities and put it out in North Dakota to protect our Minutemen missiles, not people.\ He charged that the ABM system is \the culmination of the improper allocation of our resources .. .the growth of more ami more powerful weapons and the urge to use them.\ Nickerson, who lost in his bid for a Democratic seat in the U.S. Senate to Paul O'Dwyer in the last election, is confident the ABM \can be beat if we're all willing to do our part.\ Spending He attacked Americs's priorities as being distorted because we spend $80 billion on war and only $5 billion for social services. Nickerson, who is speaking against the ABM at colleges around the country, philosophically charged that \one of the most difficult investments to liquidate is the investment in people's egos and careers. CongressmanRyan Here Sunday \Over 35,000 Americans and Lord knows how many hundred thousand Vietnamese have been killed because our Armed Services didn't want to lose face,\ he continued. Rep. William F. Ryan, a Democratic member of the U.S. House of Representatives from New York City, will speak in Library Plaza on Sunday, May 18,at3 p.m. His appearance is sponsored by the International Relations Club. The congressman will discuss ••Lessons of Vietnam.\ Reform Democrat A former assistant district attorney of New York County, Ryan is a graduate of Columbia Law School. He was founder of the Riverside Democrats, the first reform Democratic club to oust Tammany Hall on the city's West Side. Representative Ryan was a delegate to the 1968 Democratic Convention in Chicago, where he was an ardent supporter of Senator Eugene McCarthy. During the election campaign, he spoke for the minority party plank on Vietnam . No Bail Set Able and Progressive Last November, Ryan was reelected to his fifth term in Congress with an 80 per cent majority. In endorsing him for reelection, the \New York Times\ called him \an independent, able and progressive Congressman--one of the few th;:tt New York City sends to Washington.\ Big Brothers The Big Brothers of Union College are sponsoring a picnic in Jackson's Gardens at 11 :30 a.m. on Sunday, May 24. There will be refreshments and games. All Big Brothers and their Little Brothers are invited. There are students and faculty who are in some way Big Brothers, and they, along with their Little Brothers, are invited also. All, including present Big Brothers, are requested to RSVP by Friday, May 16. Please notify Bruce Garber at 346-9959. Gov. Rockefeller came under attack in a question-and-answer period for being a \big anns, more armaments hawk.\ No Final Exams For Seniors With Comprehensives Seniors graduating this June and taking comprehensive exams will not be required to take final exams in their spring term courses. ..,of Walter Spencer, Senate Vice-Presid.ent, it was decided to postpone a decision until all Senators could be familiarized with the Faculty .Committee report on the calendar and until a member of that C()mmittee could be invited to address a senate meeting. Honor Code Bosch Remains • zn County Jail Martin Lichterman, Dean of Center I, said that the Faculty Council had decided to defer the implementation of the policy that would excuse seniors taking camps only from finals in courses in their field. Ivan Tether, '71, then irltroduced for discussion a proposed lbnor Code -tSystem for the College. Tether said that he did not feel such a system was \feasible or of value at Unjon\ and Gerry Hyman, '71 indicated that ills previous experience with such a plan had \caused more dishonesty.\ A straw poH of living units showed that ·31 were against such a code 'With on.ly one in favor and the matter was dropped. Referring to a letter in last Friday's 'Concordiensis, Jay Blitzman, '71 moved that the Senate contemplate abolishing itself in favor of the Town . Hall type ·Of government .advocated by Stephen Kornfield in that letter. Blitzman pointed out that the Senate was merely a convenience and not • really vital or vibrant. A brief Donald B. Bosch, the freshman from Garden City nabbed last week following a narcotics raid in Albany, remains in custody at Schenectady County Jail and will reappear in police APOLOGY Co ncordiensis wishes to apologize for an error on page 3 of last Friday's issue. A lengthy calendar of events for Arts Festival '69 appeared with the headline \Black Arts Calendar.\ Arts Festival ended last weekend; Black Arts Weekend will take place this weekend. By BRUCE H. HUSTEN court Friday. Bosch was arraigned last Friday before Justice George W. Stroebel. Appearing as Bosch's attorney at the arraignment was William P. Willig of Schenectady, who requested the week's adjournment in order to prepare legal motions. Bail was not set and Bosch was remanded to custody until Friday's court appearance. An official at Schenectady Police Court emphasized that no bail was set for \personal\ reasons involving the student and his parents. Dean of Students Edward Malloy, meanwhile, said neither he nor any other officials at the college had any inkling that Bosch was to be arrested or that police officials were going to apprehend Bosch on warrants. \I was told the police tried to locate a campus security officer before apprehending Bosch,\ Malloy said, ••but when they failed to do so they apprehended him.\ Malloy said he has requested of local police that they try to contact him at any hour before coming on campus to apprehend a student. Bosch's arrest came last Wednesday after 32 people had been charged with narcotics violations in Albany drug raids. It was reported that Bosch was not directly involved with the Albany raids but was picked up as a result of information gleaned from those already apprehended. Lichterman said that the decision to postpone the new policy came after some seniors had argued that they had not been given adequate notice of the change. The policy that the Faculty Council passed in the last week of the winter term will become effective next year. Lichterman added that the chairmen of Divisions I and II (Humanities and Social Sciences) will appoint student-faculty committees in the fall to study c;omptehensive exams within the context of a general review of the entire program for the senior year.

PAGE 2 MAY 13, 1969 OPINION \Those who make peaceful revolution impossible make viol e 11 t rev o l u t ion i 11 e vita b l e. \ ~io'· Union.: Integration Not Segregation ::;)~; ... ~~ <nournr aif)~ llitnsta o··tu .._.gf__..~ p.,bl&lht'd Tundoy a~d F\dey dut· Ina tht achool yrar by lhlf Stuc1f'nf 8od.y or Un&onColl•r• Sch-.noct•dr N.'Y. NatLone·J Ad..,r-rtaa&nl Rfprr· tf'fllatiYf' Nauonel Ed\oiC'&IIOnil'l Advf'rtJatn& Strv&C't'. Inc .. Collf'lf PubiLahf'rl fl.pprt'lfntalt\•· J60 L•x&nltO\ A'llf'nur. N. Y, C. [dll Oil Ill orr.ct. 0 ld c; yM, Un&on Co·ll•.c•. Publ•c•t•on Olfac·• 'llhltt- hurtt ·Pnnt&nC & B•nd&ftl Co., JI\C. 416·4l·l F'dth A~•·· Troy. 2JS·4450. E \l·f'rtd an thf' St. htnf'ct:•dy P or. I OH<e• u Socond Cl•u W•ll M•ttu. Subocnplion 20~ a copy, S6 • year d'!'l&ver~d enywt'lt>r~ '\ thl' Unittd Stat\ t. NEILS. KRAMER Ed.i tor·in·Chief WILUAM OUZER Managing Editor CARL GO LDSAND Business Manager SENIOR BOARD Paul Andrews, Andrew Crisses, Henry Fein, Bruce Husten, Alan Mel!, Peter Weingold. JUNIOR BOARD Jeff Birn, Uoyd Birns, Jerry Levine, Jody Saslow, Michael Swirsky, John Schosheirn, John Brunswick, Bill Holleran. STAFF Tony Beninati, Bruce Garber, Phil Galdston, Alan Greenfield, George Kaplan, Hank Levine, Steve Levy, Stu Moss, Gary Prevost, Randy Sutter. A few weeks agn an article appeared in this paper announcing that the fourth floor of South College was being set aside for all Negro stuclents who wish to live there. Since then there bas been a good deal of uncertainty surrounding the plan. Some students, now living on fourth floor south, feared that they would not be able to retain their rooms. That turned out to be untrue. (Nevertheless, a number of students on that floor, who had originally planned to remain there with their friends, arranged with Dean Lucas to get rooms in another dorm, because they were afraid of being an isolated minority in an otherwise segiegated \community\, The designation of a floor for black students came about after a request made by the Black Alliance, a group of Negro Union students. Dean Lucas and Dean Malloy have defended the decision to grant a floor to the Alliance by pointing out that this policy is no different from the past policy of arranging for groups of friends to room on the same floor. This, however, is not quite the complete truth: there is a difference. Unlike the groups of four, eight or ten friends who room near each other, the Black Alliance is planning to write (if they have not already done so) By ALAN MELL to a·ll incoming Negro freshmen, 'informing them that there is a Boor on which other blacks will be roorning, and asking them if they wouldn't want to live there too. Dean Malloy stated yesterday that he is not certain that these letters are being sent out, or what they will contain, but he did say that he does not want any student to feel that he is being segregated. Malloy emphasized that all Negro students, like everyone else, are free to room wherever they please, and that he sees this as a matter of individual preference. The problem, however, that the designation of a floor for Negro students raises is not one of purposeful segregation. The problem is, rather, the whole nature ·of Negro student life at Union. Up until this year Union has only had a handful of Negroes in the student body. This year, finally, Union has recruited a large number of Negroes, thanks largely to the efforts of the Black Alliance. Next year there will be about fifty black students here. Hence, it seems that Union has at last become aware of the fact that American society is not lily white. The society itself took an awfully long time to become aware of that fact and, now that it has, it is paying for its years of ignorance with what seems lik~ an almost iNsolvable domestic crisis. Union may have to face its own crisis in the corning years ff it does not handle its ewn situation properly. It js always necessary that all freshmen be assimilated into the College community when they arrive .heFe. Students at this school come from a wide range of backgrounds, and so it has always been a problem for some of them to find their proper place among the many different people here. For the Negro student, this problem may be even greater. In most cases, next year's Negro freshmen will probably be arriving here from segregated communities. There connections with whites up until now have probably been quite minimaL Naturally, they may anticipate a great deal of discomfort at the prospect of suddenly being thrust into a predominately white, middle class, mini-society, which Union in fact is. ... 11ncertain months between your acceptance at Union and your arriva'l here. Would you not have •u • felt a little more at ease if you thought your roommate was goiRg to be just like the guys back home? If this is true of¥ you, I think it is fair to say that the same would be doubly true of the incoming black freshmen .. , It also seems to be fair to say that, by not rooming in separate, relatively homogeneous groups,~ but with many rather diverse people, most students gain a good deal. In fact, what studen.ts learn about each other during'\ their four years at tke College may be one of the most important educational gains they'+ make there. Of course, students may, after their freshman year, choose 1 to associate primarily with their \own .kind,\ as the Jewish students at Phi Ep, for example, did; but that was a choice made t) after exposure to the College and probably after they had formed friendships with students , outside of their own group, in 1 addition to the friendships within their fraternity. Wesleyan Vigil Protests Recruitment It is fortunate, I think, that they have, nevertheless, elected to attend a school such as Union, rather than an all or largely Negro college, where they could comfortably fit in with members of their own race. At a time when studies are pointing to the movement of American society towards segregation, it is encouraging The Negro student corning here will most likely face many unique problems. They may not, for example, have gotten the ' same academic foundation as the typical Long Island high school graduate, and so they may needt! some help in adjusting academically. That help, I'm sure, will be forthcoming from the faculty, but it can andtJ should also be available from the students with whom they live. Ending a 27-hour vigil against military recruitment at Wesleyan, 160 students exited en masse from President Etherington's office shortly after Phone 372·0528 PARK PIZZERIA Italian Grinders Our Specialty Behind Davidson Hall - One Block from the Campus 25 Pork P Ieee Schenectady, N.Y. VACATION FOR TWO $20.00 4 days, 3 nights at deluxe Hotels Miami Beach or Las Vegas Transportation not included Certificate must be ordered direct from this ad. (ENCLOSE $20.) FREEEXTRAS ORDEREARLY FIVE DAY MONEY BACK GUARANTEE William V. Trowbridge MAIL ORDER 35 Woodcrest Avenue Dayton, Ohio 45405 ~For three Generations.' fhose Who Know ... Have been recommending • By TONY BENINA Tl noon on Tuesday, May 6. The WESLEY AN ARGUS reported that the students had entered the President's office at 9:00 a.m. Monday, in order to emphasize ••their commitment to the end of military recruitment at Wesleyan.\ The vigil was described as \not a takeover with a set of demands, but a non-disruptive act which would stress their seriousnes~.\ The protest was the culmination of a response to President Etherington's Parents' Day address the previous Saturday morning. In his address, the President said that while recruitment is a service, and that no part of it is essential, the elimination of campus recruitment would be ••contrary to freedom and openness.\ At this point, approximately 75 students and faculty members walked out. Throughout Monday afternoon, students casually wandered in and out of the President's office. At 4:30 pm, the group inside the building grew to 110 people_ About 25 students slept overnight in the office, and on Tuesday, the number grew to 160 as noon approached. At noon, a spokesman read a statement proclarning that the 27-hour vigil had ended and that THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeats from all over the world. 406 STATE ST. Boulevard Bowl 135 ERtE BOULEVARD 40 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES MOON TRIP RESERVATIONS •. RESERVATIONS NOW. BEING ACCEPTED FOR. TRIPS TO THE MOON.· TOTAL COST $1500, $10, DOWN AND $10 A MONTH •. APPLICATION $2 I NO'. MAIL ANSWERED WITH . OUT APPLICATION FEE. HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER William V. Trowbridge 35 Woodcrest Avenue Dayton, Ohio 45405 ~~3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'• 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY the people involved had pledged (for someone who believes in themselves to the end of military integration) to see that colleges, recruitment at Wesleyan. at least, are moving in the The spokesman also urged the opposite direction. Both blacks and whites need ... faculty to \protect the integrity The creation of a floor to understand each other, if they of the university by voting to are to make society function end military recruitment.\ primarily for blacks, however, is properly. That understanding. A ballot stating \Resolved: a case of taking one step forward can only be brought about in an ' that Wesleyan University should and then one back. Certainly, as integrated society.Especially at not invite representatives of the Dean Malloy says, this is not any Union, where there is no Armed Forces to the campus for attempt at segregation, but it is tradition of black-white conflict.t p u r p o s e s of m i 1 it a r y ahnost equally certain that the on campus, total integration · recruitment\ went out to each effect will be just that. It is very should begin immediately, so faculty member later Tuesday hard to believe that too many that all students continue to be a afternoon_ pre-college teenagers, given the part of a unified College'\ In a telephone interview last choice between rooming with community. That unity breaks night, ARGUS Exchange Editor the people they are most when students separate into Neil Silberman reported that the familiar with and rooming with .a groups even before they arrive at~ 1 results of the faculty referendum randomly selected stranger, Union. And once the unity Were 165 agaill . st the proposal, would choose random selection. b k fli t t b rea s, con c canna e very 64 endorsing the resolution, and Think back, if you can, to the far away. 6au~·,~~~--------------------------------------------------~ Allegh-eny Airlines helps you beat the waiting game •.. And saves you up to 331fa %. Allegheny's Young Adult Card lets you fly whenever you want to (even holidays) .. ,.,,. and still get advance reservations. · If you're between 12 and 22, ., .. what are you waiting for? Stop by any Allegheny ticket counter and purchase your ·Mflll:it@?ll' Young Adult Card. Only $10 for all of 1969. Allegheny Air System have a lot more going for you MAY 13,' Col~ ~· To I ._.,~ Steven . at Union chairman c and will m: ·l festival FJ recital ·Of calendar). He stu . .J Peabody C Baltimore, .coac:hed b .} Wilson of '1 Cole, a the Capit Opera Co. -~ throughout ... ., ' ' from Ve (playing (Editor previe..., 8:3 Spir messag1 Am1 Hnads,' in whic Daniel) Cole introdu ofmus' The 10 Ron publish read th 10 Black Gar~ Overstr their \\ SUNY1 Ove: Brin Negro J 1 I authol Wile Univer: commt Unt Corps Bedfor He Jersey· Wile consul1 leaders 2:31 Ex peri Jam of Int Histor~ Lod ~~~ ~~s ~mina ·~Mrs. · e~n8ult: a~d Dr. Albany, Pro: ·Prof. · Chicago Iowa Ui Mis: School Tran most pl Pesdarn She staff of She City. Reg Gilli: presider NewYc Ra) WaTh Studenl ·~ set up r 8 p donati 8 t£ Simi City U1 \to pro 8.: Co Black 9] 9: perfo \L Th direct Colle~ ABC1 lC

3, 1969 ... your nd your have lu • if you was guys true of¥ say that true .. , to say groups,~ diverse gain a studet:~.ts .. during'\ College most they , 4 may, MAY 13, 1969 PAGE 3 ~BLACK ARTS WEEKEND: A STUDY OF 'THE BLACK EXPERIENCE' n· Cole's Recital of Sp;iritua.ls To Begin Festival's .Events ,_.,~ Steven A. Cole, a sophomore at Union from Baltimore, is chairman of Black Arts Festival and will mark the opening of the ·1 festival Friday night with a recital of Negro spirituals {see calendar). He studied voice at the · • .J Peabody Conservatory of Music, Baltimore, and at Union he is .coached by Prof. Hugh Allen .} Wilson of ·the music department. Cole, a tenor, is a member of the Capital Artists Resident Opera Co. and has performed -~ throughout this area in excerpts .from Verdi'.s \Rigoletto\ (playing the Duke) and Giordano's \Fedora\ (Loris). He is the winner of the Schenectady Light Opera Company's Scholarship Competitions and the Young Artists Competition and is a finalist in the Albany League of Arts Vocal Competition . Cole was an instructor in Black history last summer with Upward Bound at Union and has since lectured in the area on the functional' characteristics of the Negro spirituals. He has also compiled .il bibliography entitled \The Black Man in America\ for Check, Inc., in Harlem. WEINGOLD INTERVIEWS BROWN AT PHI EP Keeping open the lines ofcommunication. VICTOR E. BROWN, JR. Black Alliance Head Vic Brmvn, President Of Black Alliance, Assesses Black Student's Role At ·Union A CALENDAR OF EVENTS choose < : their · \' (Editor's Note: The following is a calendar of events in conjunction with Black Arts Festival including brief previews of the events listed.) (Editor's Note: Black Arts Festival begins at 8:30 p.m. Friday with a recital of Negro spirituals in SS 016 and will continue through the folio wing day. On this page \Concordiensis\ presents a calendar of events and other features related to the festival, including the article below which is the result of an interview between \Concordy\ Features Editor Peter Weirzgold and Victor E. Brown, president of the Black Students' Alliance which is sponsoring the Festival.) things going that involve the outside community and get Union students out of their stagnation.\ Brown likened the Black donn to a fraternity in its social aspects--those men with similar interests choose to live together-~but emphasized that he hoped the need for Blacks to live together would be only temporary. Jewish madet) College had students in~~ coming ce many not, the' as the school needt! I'm from andtl from the y live. need\ r, if they function in an' cially at is no conflict.~ · so to be a College'\ breaks into arrive at.::, unity be very #) ., ' t .. ··~ FRIDAY, MAY 16 8:30 p.m.in SS 016, recital of Negro spirituals by Steven A. Cole, tenor, $1 donation. Spirituals to be sung originate :from the Negro during his years of slavery in America and contain secular messages. Recurring themes in the majority of the spirituals are freedom, communication and religion. Among the selections are \Sometimes 1 Feel Like A Motherless Child,\ \He's Got The Whole World in His Hnads,\ \Let Us Break Bread Together,\ \Swing Low, Sweet Chariot\ and \Didn't My Lord Deliver Daniel,\ in which the slave cannot understand his predicament. Why, he asks, did the Lord deliver others (including Daniel) but not himself? Cole has given the recital of Negro spirituals at his home in Baltimore and at Skidmore College. He will introduce each number briefly. Accompanying Cole on piano will be Hugh Allen Wilson, associate professor of music. (See article and picture of Cole on this page for biographical information.) The one dollar donation charge will be given to the Martin Luther King Memorial Scholarship Fund. 10 p.m. at the North End, reading of Black poetry, free. Ronald McKinnon '72 and Sherman Bryant '70 will lead the poetry reading. Bryant's \Iceman\ was published in the most .recent edition of the \Idol.\ McKinnon, and English major from Schenectady, will read the poems of LeRoi Jones, Langston Hughes, Countee Cullen and other Black poets. SATURDAY. MAY 17 10 a.m. in Old Chapel, a display of African and Afro-American pieces of art and a display of Black literature, free. Gary Richards, president of the Black Artists Association of Boston, will display work along with Joe Overstreet and Jerald Jackson of the Allan Stone Galleries of New York City. Local artists who will display their work include Robe!'t Reed, professor of art at Skidmore College; Arthur Collins, professor of art at SUNY A; Marion Hughes of Troy and Margaret Cunningham, Eric Fisher and Mim Brodsky of Schenectady. Over four thousand dollars worth of books on, by, and about Black literature will also be on display. Bringing the literature display will be James Wilson, vice president and public relations manager of the Negro Book Club in New York City. 1 p.m. in SS 016, a talk entitled \Where Do We Go From Here?\ by Preston R. Wilcox, author of psycl1ologist, free. Wilcox, professor of urban sociology at Columbia University, is a graduate of City College and Columbia University. From 1963 to 1967 he was an assistant professor of social work at Columbia where he taught community organization and trained Peace Corps and VISTA volunteers. Until September, 1968, he served as a staff assistant and affiliate with the Bedford-Stuyvesant D & S Corps where he designed a four-year community-controlled internship \communiversity\ serving the Bedford-Stuyvesant area. He is the author of \The School and the Community,\ a school-seminar paper published by the New Jersey Community Action Training Institute. Wilcox is a member of the Technical Assistant Committee, Child Development Group of Missis~ippi and a consultant on poverty programs, community development, education and training of non-professionals and leadership training to indigenous neighborhood organizations. (See photo this page.) 2:30 to 4:30 p.m. in classrooms of social science bullding, seminars on \The Black Experience,\ free. James Lockhart, assistant in educational integration, New York State Department Division of Intercultural Relations in Education, will lead a seminar on \The Relevance ot..,Black · History.\ Lockhart, a graduate of SUNY A and Columbia University, is the author of several articles including, \The ..J:Bl~About Slavery,\ \From Slavery to Jim Crow,\ and \The Role of the Negro in American Histor:y.\ ~~s. Audrey HatVey, Freeman Robinson, Ralph Boyd, and Dr. Ronald Brooks will present a jifminar on \Dynamics in the Black Community.\ . rMrs. Harvey is assistant director of the Schenectady Community Action program; Freeman Robinson is a e~nsultant for the Carver Daycare Center of Schenectady; Ralph Boyd is president of Schenectady's NAACP :J.~d Dr. Brooks is a chemist at General Electric active in Schenectady's Black community and the Brothers of Albany. Prof. William Daniels will present a seminar on \Black Man and Politics. . ·Prof. Daniels joined Union's faculty in 1966 as assistant professor of Political Science. He is a native of Chicago and a 1962 graduate of Upper Iowa University. He expects to receive his doctorate this year from Iowa University. He is a Woodrow Wilson Fellow and has worked on poverty programs in the midwest. Miss Tranzana Beverly, a professional actress and a student at the New York University School of the Arts, will present a seminar on \The Black Man and Drama.\ Tranzana Beverly will receive her Bachelor of Drama degree this spring. She is considered one of America's most promising young Black actresses and was written up in the Tulane Drama Review for her work as Desdamona in \Othello with Jersy Grotowski, director of Polish Lab Theater. She recently made her debut as Hercuba in Euripides' \The Trojan Women\ and willjoin the professional staff of the Games Theater (of Mike Nichols and Elaine May fame) this fall. She has worked with Black youth in Harlem through Check, Inc., an art-oriented project in New York City. Reginald Gilliam will present a seminar on \The Black Student on the College Campus,\ Gilliam, a graduate of Harvard Law School, is assistant professor in Afro-American Studies at SUNY A and president of the National Harvard Black Lawyers' Alliance. He is the organizer of legal aid to Black people in New York City. Raymond Walker will present a seminar on \The .Black Man and Employment.\ Walker, who has organized the Yale Black Students Alliance and the University of Connecticut's Black Students' Alliance, has beert responsible for numerous community programs throughout the country and has set up numerous administrative staffs of these projects in New York City. 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel, \The Afro-American Experience: Africa to U.S.A., 1969,\ $1 donation to the Martin Luther King Mem()rial Scholarship Fund. 8 to 8:45p.m., Simba, a tronpe of 18 African dancers and drummers. Simba was organized at Bronx Community College in 1965 and has performed for all the colleges of the City University of New York. Choreography for the troupe, which was organized for the Black community \to promote Black cultural awareness,\ is done by Gus Dinizulu. 8.:45 to 9 p.m., Showing of African Fashions. Commentator will be Otis Tucker of Albany who has appeared with his fashions and models at the recent Black Arts Festivals of RPI and SUNY A. 9 p.m. to 9:15 p.m., Intermission. 9:15 p.m. to 10 p.m., Music, dance and drams by \Listen My Brother,\ a group of Black performers. \Listen My Brother,\ with a cast of 11 young Black performers, does a tropical rhythm and blues review. Theme of their performance is \The Frustration and Ambition of the Black Man in America.\ Staging and diiecting is by Tommie Johnson. The group is from Harlem and has appeared at the American International College in Springfield, Mass.; the City Center of New York; at the Apollo Theater in New York and on the ABC television show, \Tell It Like It is.\ 10 p.m., a reception in the Hale House lounge. Victor Brown, president of the Black Students' Alliance, described the Black Arts Weekend as being necessary for both Blacks and Whites. He hopes \the people from Scltenectady, the blacks and ·especially the middle-class Whites will come to the Festival. \'Through the Black Arts Weekend we'd like to see more awareness by Blacks and Whites, both in Union College and the general Schenectady area, ofthe existence of the Black man in art and history.\ \'Black students on many campuses have realized that there's a tremendous discrepancy between the Blacks on the college campuses and the Blacks in the surrounding communities.\ Brown sees the Arts Weekend · as '\giving the black community a means to get involved--to get to feel that Union is not only in Schenectady but a part of Schenectady.\ The weekend is aimed at making the Union College and Schenectady communities aware of the existence of the Black Alliance and Black Art. At the same time, Brown described the weekend as ••a change from the traditional picture of Union as a work-week-big weekend school. We'd like the Weekend to continue the trend here toward getting TO SPEAK SATURDAY- Preston R. Wilcox, author and psychologist, will deliver a talk at 1 p.m. Saturday in SS 016 entitled '\Where Do We Go From Here?\ Brown was pleased with the Arts Festival '69 as a demonstration of what he feels should be done. \\For the good of lJ nion we must see things here that concern all of us. I'd like to see the :Black Arts Weekend as just one of many things that will bring the Union man more in touch with the outside world.\ Brown has been president of the Alliance since September, 1968. The Alliance itself was formed over a year and a half ago by Larry MacFarlane. There are currently ten active members and the Alliance hopes to swell its. ranks as a res:ult of the approximately 35 :Black students entering in September. Brown sees the purpose of the Black Alliance, with regard to incoming Blacks, as an organization that will attempt to provide both an academic and a social help. \The academic a11d' especially the social changes will be tremendous for these students. They will need special guidance and a place where they can relax in a comfortable atmosphere.\ Brown feels that tllis need for special help is the rnain reason for the Black Alliance's request that a dormitory unit be provided in which all Blacks would have the option of living. '\The opport~nity to live readily wit:h other Black students is what we wanted,\ said BroWll. \In a black donn it will be easier for the Slacks to give and receive tutoring help than it would be for an isolated Black to seek out ather Blacksm ask his White friends for help. It will also make it easier for the Blacks to get dates for each other and organize their own parties,\ '\If enough Blacks were :here at Union it would be nnnecessary for a Black dorm unit to exist--enough Blacks would be in all the 11nits to prevent the Blacks from being absorbed <!ulturally or from being 11nable to make the change from a Black ghetto to an ~11-White environment.\ \Although the Whites might possible benefit from an integration of the Blacks into the living units, it wouldn't be worth the price that would be paid in adjustment difficulties by the Blacks.\ One of the good things that Brown hopes to see come out of the recruiting of Black students and students from Project HOPE is a broader perspective on contemporary issues both as discussed in the classroom and as practiced in the community. The Blacks and underpriveleged Whites will be able to say, \'This happened to me;\ not merely, \I read about this.\ Might Union become another Williams? \It might,\ said Brown; \I won't say it can't happen here, but so far the administration has been very willing to sit down and talk and in some cases has even suggested things to us. The important thing is to keep the lines of communication open. When people are willing to sit down and talk there's no need for violence.\ This weekend's Black Arts Festival will provide an opportunity, hopefully not a unique one, to look at, listen to, and sit down and talk about the Black man in art. Let's all hope it's taken advantage of. FESTIVAL CHAIRMAN- Steven A. Cole, sophomore from Baltimore, is chahman of the Black Arts Festival and will open the festival with a recital of Negro spirituals Friday night. Cole, who will study next year at the University of Stockholm and the Royal Academy of Music in Sweden, is a vocal student of Madame Elda Ercole of New York.

Concordy Sports PAGE 4 Batsmen Stnnned by Horde; Win Streak Ends at Five With incredible suddeness, the Garnet baseball team's five game win streak went down the drain on Sa'turday, when the killjoys from Garkson dropped the Dutchmen 2-1 in eleven innings. Because of the ICAC track championships that were held on Alexander Field, the game was played in Central Park. By BILL HOLLERAN The Dutchmen spotted Clarkson a run in the top of the first, as Neidel was touched up for two wrong-field hits, a double and a single. UniGn got the run back in the bottom of the second inning, when Jim Wilson scored from second base on Neidel's bloop single. Wilson had reached base on a single to left, and had advanced to second on a wild pitch. il}to a game-ending dGuble·play, as MacKenzie was running, and the Garnet found themselves saddled with their first loss in ·ili starts. Art lawrence'.s ballplayers will attempt to get back •Dn the winning track tomorrow aftemoon, when the Dutchmen host Norwich on Alexander Field. Starting time for that contest is 3 P.M. MAY 13, 1969 Engineers Tops In ICAC Track A surprisingly strong showing by Alfred and Hobart highlighted' the I C A C Track and Field Championships, held Saturday on Alexander Field. The Garnet .trackmen fared poorly, winning only one event and finishing a distant fourth in the five-team field. RPI successfully defended its crown, rolling up l 04 points to edge Alfred, which f'mished with an even :By HENRY FEIN 100. Hobart, in its first year of varsity track, totalled 32. The Dutchmen followed with 18 points, nosing out St. Lawrence, which scored 16 points. Rick J aszczak anchored an outstanding victorious mile medley &}uad in the unofficial yearling event. t The speedster, who usually runs · distances of 440 or less, ran an outstanding half mile in 1:58.0, including a sub-53 second Gpening% quarter mile. By comparison, the Winning varsity time, run from a standing start, was 'l :59.5. Although the Garnet still boast a fin.c 5-l recQrd, chances for a berth in the Atlantic Regional Playoffs at Ft. Eustis, Virginia, now appear dim, and one begins to wonder exactly how the Dutchmen will fare in their remaining four games. The fans were then treated to an eight-inning re-enactment of last year's major league \Year of the Pitcher.\ Neidel and the Clarkson hurler, Gary Junge, became locked in a tight pitching duel, and neither team could get anything started offensively for the rest of the regulation play. Lax Rolls at Alfred, 9-0; Host Toug'h· Orange We~d. Bill :Pollack of RPI 'Was the only double Winner of the meet, and- he pulled off the feat in rare form. Pollack set a new RPI .record in the mile as he easily outdistanced Bill Briell of Alfred in 4:16- By doing so, he also qualified for the NCAA championship. The two mile runwas more of the same, with Pollack winning in 9:4L2. He<Jed from start to rmish in the latter race, with Briell finishing second more than fifty yards behind, at the condusion. The frosh·entertairt Hudson Valley, Community College at 2:00p.m. this ' mternoon in their .final dual meet of the season. The yearlings now stand 4\0 in dual meets, and tied for first at , the LeMoyne Invitational. The • varsity hosts Hobart today, in an attempt to improve on a 1-5 mark, identical to last year's slate. Both . varsity and frosh wind up their ·I . seasons Saturday at Alfred in the Clarkson Inconsistent Saturday's contest certainly proved the old adage, \Any team can beat another team on any given Su11day.\ Clarkson was admittedly not one of Union's tougher opponents this season. Up until Saturday, the Golden Horde were lesing more than they were winning, and were scoring ten runs one day onJy to be shut out the next. In sh ~rt, Clark son was a weak, inconsistent team that Union was supposl!d to dispose of handily. Such., obviously, was not the case on Saturday. Perhaps the Garnet had brcn overlooking the Golden Horde, concentrating on the important Friday matchup with St. Lawrence. It is also possible that after the game with the Larries was rained out, the Dlltchmen found themselves \down\ for the Clarkson game. In any case, ho·wever, the damage has been done, and the Garnet must kiss another wiilning streak goodbye. Neidel Loses Bill Neidel absorbed the loss for the G arne!, his frrst in fotu outings, but he had nothing to be ashamed of as he pitched good ball. The big right-hander htuled all eleven innings, gave up two runs (both of them eaFned) on none hits, struck out three, and walked none. - Things almost broke loose for both teams in the tenth inning, when Clarkson put two runners on base with two away, only to have N eidel slam the door in their faces, and the Garnet nearly capitalized on Junge's momentary loss of control. Junge settled down, however, after a brief chat with his coach on the mound, and promptly mowed down the remaining Garnet batters in that inning. Horde Scores Clarkson broke the deadlock in the top of the eleventh, after putting a runner on second with two outs. He scored when the next batter sent a soft fly to center, which glanced off Bob MacKenzie's glove for the base-hit. The Garnet went out in a blaze of glory in their last at-bat, putting two men on with nobody out in the bottom of the eleventh. MacKenzie Jed off with a grounder to second, but beat the high throw at first base. Jim Wilson then walked, and after Brien Gidlow fanned, Neidel poked a soft flyball to center, which for a moment looked like it would drop in for the run-scoring base-hit. A running catch by the Clarkson centerfielder, however, converted it Q In a 'I es s than closely contested Iacross game played Saturday at Alfred, the Garnet stickmen handled the Lonl Jeffs, 9-0, to square their record at 5-5. The Dutchmen were in charge of the contest from the opening whistle, as Mike Ci1ater scored two first period goals for the Garnet. In the second stanza, Jim Sabella scored. after only two minutes of pl~y to up the Union lead to 3-0, and at the three minute mark Bruce Westby tallied. Westby's goal was followed by two more scores by Chater and one by Bruce Dugan. Westby and Doug Duval, respectively, picked up the assists on Chater's final two tallies. Dugan made the count 8-0 early in the ft:nal period, converting a feed from John Rockwell. John Howell wrapped up Union's offensive show, scoring on pass from Duval. The Garnet's second staring defense, composed of Steve Herrick, Tom Godfrey, and Bill Dwyer, filled in excellently for Keglers Place Sixth In States The Bowling Club finished six.th in a twelve-team field at the New York State Championships in Syracuse Sa iurday. Don Hovey paced the team effort with a six game total of 1065. Greg Ellis was next with 1048, followed by AI Case 1014. Ellis finished fourth in the singles event with a 591 series, Eli is lead the field after two games with 230 and 210 but a split-filled final game ruined his chances for victory. Ellis also teamed with Gary Prevost for a fifth place finished in doubles as the latter co11tributed a 500 total to an aggregate of 1091. Dick Marchant competed in the semi-finals of the National Colic giate Match Games Saturday, .after placing ninth in the qualifying round with a 15 25 eight game total. Dick, however, was unable to maintain DEALERS WANTED HOl'JlE MAIL ORDER WORK Run new fast $6.00 pulling ad over your name, in any circular or publication, keep $5.00 of each $6.00 you ·receive. We fill orders for S1.00. Rush $6.00 for sample c itculars and copy of ad. \Nilliam V. Trowbridge 35 Woodcrest Avenue Dayton, Ohio 45406 that pace in the semis and an eight-game total of 1370 left him in 13th place. Only the top eight advanced to the finals. In other news, AI Case and Don Hovey squared off in the Dutch Classic Singles League last Monday night, and the result was a tie match. Hovey upped his league-leading mark to II~ · 3~; The first game was tied at 201 apiece, and then each bowler won one of the remaining games. Hovey totalled 591 and now holds a league-leading average of 202. Greg Ellis, presently second in the standings in Division A, moved closer to first by winning two points from Mark Zubres .----,-----------· Acme Barber Shop 509 Union Street Experienced Barbers Nearest to Union College Students ~EWE~T with the night's high triple, a 618. Bruce Northr11p, who won two points from John Irwin, moved into third place with an 8-7 mark. Ed fowler gained the Division B lead with a 3.() sweep of Sam Kreigler. Fowler rolled a. 204-543 to up his slate to 11-4. Jack Friers, with the B Division high of 208- 574, moved into second place at l 0·5. DEALERS WAN1T'ED Spray Perfumes, Ounce size copies of very famous brands selling up to $60 per ounce. Suggested retail $3.50. Your cost $11.25 dozen; 3 dozen $29.00; 6 dozen $53.00; 12 dozen $101.50~ WM. TROWBRIDGE 35 Woodcrert Ave., Dayton, Ohio 45405 LU,._CH 715 Albany Street Specializing: - HOT DOGS WITH FAMOUS SAUCE - DINNERS AND SANDWICHES - TAKE-OUT ORDERS - Union Students Favorite Spot - (Serving Schenectady Since 19211 Mon.·Thurs. 7 A.M.·2 A.M. Fri,-Sat. 7 A.M.·4 A.M. Sun. 9 A_M.··l A.M~ the .ailing first-string trio, Don DeMichele, Kevin Monahan, and Pup Gould. Because of their excellent play, netminder Ed Green was called on only ten times during the afternoon. The Dutchmen will go after their sixth victory tomorrow afternoon, when the stickmen face perenially powerful Syracuse. Another big effort will be expected of the reserve defensemen, as Monahan is the only regular expected to be ready for action. The Garnet are also hurting at midfield, and are down to only eight middies for the Syracuse game, as Steve Bauer, who was hurt in the Alfred game, is a doubtful started for Wednesday. With o.nly the mile relay remaining, RPI Jet Alfred by only 9 8-97.. Both relay squads had recorded best times of 3:28 for the event. The Engineers ra.n away from the pack, however, as Pete Collopy, Bob 'Hall, Tom Lindenmuth, and Lou Zajick ran a f'me 3:25.5. To add injtuy to the insult, the A1fred anchor man was nosed out at the wire by Hobart for second place. Gardner Only Winner The only Garnet winner was weight man George Gardner, who won the shot put at 41' 3 \ his best ever. lie also fmished foUith in the discus, where Ed Blechner took the runner-up spot. Blechner also fmished fourth in the shat. Pete Ericson took f<Jurth in the 220, a.nd ran a leg of the Garnet 440 relay, vib.ich finished third. Fr.osh star 1'< ·w York State Championships. MAR,RIAGES BY MAIL $10 APPLICATION FORM $2 FAST SERVICE NO MAIL ANSWERED WITH• OUT FORM FEE. William V. Trowbridge 35 Woodcrest Avenue Dayton, Ohio 45405 The Bulova 'Resistors. They resist water. Tested to 333 feet. And in the case of the Snorkel model, 666 feeL They re- sist shock. And they resist dust. They resist heat. And they resist cold. In fact, the fabulous new Bulova Oceanographer watches resist just about everything that could possibly come between an active man and his time. Their nickel-pIa ted parts resist corro- sion. Their 17 jewels resist fric- ti()n. And they have automatic movements. And calendars. And ~UJgged good looks. And all your customers, particularly the active oRes, will find these Bulova 0 ceanograp·her watches just about impossible to resist. A. Oceanographer \F\ $65.00 C. Oceanographer \8\ $85.00 B. Oceanographer \E\ $75.00 D. Oceanographer \H\ $85.00 E. Oceanogr.apher \G\ $95.00 Time Center Phone FR 4-1083 Jewelers 428 §tate §t., Scltenectady, N.Y. \. 1: 1 fJ 'I VOL. 9 <~Mov Too ' ,. 1 ~ Becaus unable tc Meeting unanimou ,J decision :1 u n t i I I cmnmenc the mec1 consensus Preside special rr / planned ; meeting a full meeti were unai ·~ that they no proxi Meetings. J want to making coeducati' Bern an Relations, whether binding meeting a was not a< Samuc Chairman explained, alumni, tl final appr It as the stw been mad'1 Issm Fortcn . ..,) I f a umni o · a strong guardians ,., also stewa have mo question clearly to '·'* Forten ). ' stating th: and del decision deliberatcJ question c B-r. 1< literary I English a1 aftetnoon been ill fo ..; A stw literature, author of Account.'' ,1# book exm of write! University Robert F lJ Ransom, J His mo 1963, was a survey literature this centUJ He joir \' assistant p a full prof, \In tl , Bradbury, importaJ: in tellectua said. ·!l ''As a departm< Bradbuq reputatior ~ scholar-cri Prof. B mid-South . , the early \remains that move! his intere music as '

1969 an medley event. t ru.ns · ss, ran an in 1:58.0, opening • the~ . from a Valley, p.m. this ' meet of now stand for first at , · T·he ' in an 1-5 mark, Both up their ' 1 in the VOL. 98, NO 48 ,. No Coed Move Yet· <• . ' ' ,. Too Few Mee·t By STEVE LEVY 1 ~ Because a .number ·of Trustees were unable to attemd Wednesday's Board Meeting in New York City it was unanimously agreed that a final ,J decision on Cocduca·Hon be deferred until the Board ·meets at commencement. Those members at the meeting reached a preliminary \• consensus .in favor of Coeducation. President Martin said that the special meeting had originally been \. J planned as an Executive Committee M$2 WITH .. meeting and when H was upgraded to a full meeting last month, some trustees were unable to change their plans so ~ '!I that they could attend. He added that no proxies are allowed at Board Meetings. Martin said \the trustees t · J want to make clear that they me making the decision about coeducation very deliberately.\ Not Advisable Bernard Carmen, Director of Public Relations, said \it was a question of whether it was advisable to take a binding vote at the Wednesday . ··J ' meeting and the consensus was that it 1 was not advisable.\ Samuel B. Fortenbaugh, Jr., Chairman of the Board of Trustees explained, in a three page letter to the alumni, the Board's decision to defer final approval of coeducation-as wekk • as the studies of coeducation that have been made. Issue Difficult And Delicate 'J '» F ortenbaugh said that \Like many alumni of the College the Trustees feel a strong sense of tradition. They are guardians of a heritage, but they are , .. also stewards of the future. Those who have most diligently studied this question believe that the signs point clearly to coeducation.\ % 1 'i Fortenbaugh concludes his letter stating that \The issue is both difficult and delicate, and the Trustees' 'J ). decision is being made with the deliberateness such a fundamental question deserves.\ '' Founded at Union College 1817 PRICE TWENTY CENTS ROTC Action Delayed As 150 Rally By Old 'Chapel Murphy Poses ROTC Abo:lition By NEIL S. KRAMER The faculty meeting that tried to reach a decision 01n the ROTC question dragged to <i hault at 6 :00 .p.m. yesterday Just as the first rhetorical salvos were launched in Old Chapel. William Murphy, professor of English, led off the attack with a motion that \the Air Force ROTC be abolished at Union Colllcge and that no other ROTC program be established in its place. This was th.e same motion that he presented at Tl!lesday's Faculty Council meeting, where it was debated for about an hour and then tabled for the consideration of full faculty. To The Tru:stees After Prof. Murphy made his motion, the President reminded the group that \this rna tter must go to the Board of Trustees, which alone has the authority to add or dele.te programs from the curriculum.\ Col. Richard McGe-e, head of the ROTC detachment her•e, then told the faculty that he woulcL not make any statements unless there .were questions directed at him and that he would abstain from voting. Throughout the week there has been something of a pamphlet war going on in the faculty offices as literature from the Ad Hoc Committee for a Student Apocalypse, the AFROTC detachment (over Col. McGee's signature), Prof. Murphy, and the report of the Clllrricular Affairs Committee have been llistributed to all faculty members. Academic Qu~stion Prof. Murphy then spoke to his motion adding that he had no intention of violatin;g our present contract \with the Air Force.\ He emphasized that he was attacking ROTC on academic grounds not on any contention that the war in Chief Wellette ancl security head I<:leinkauf (background) survey the crowd at the door to Old Chapel as Ray Ahearn, one of the leaders of the students against ROTC, pondern his next move at the rally outside of yesterday's faculty meeting. Vietnam war in general can be on engineering and technology attributed to the ROTC. reflected Murphy's violent opposition \I favor a reserved officer program. to the already passed doctoral program I approve of the pr.incipal.\ After in the life sciences. He mentioned the statingthathisargumentwasbasedon proposed doctoral program in academic standards and stating that administrative systems as a further the ROTC program did not favorably example of this trend. compare with the rest of the Union Prof. ·Murphy's remarks about the curriculum. thrust of the College visibly upset Prof. Murphy extended his many members of the faculty, argument against ROTC by arguing particularly the President. Prof. Alfred Faculty Admit Three·Students There was one student photographer for each ten demonstrators at the rally against ROTC outside of yesterday's general faculty meeting in Old Chapel, but there were no momentous events to record. The faculty adjourned their meeting until 4:30 this afternoon and the crowd of about 150 that gathered outside of Old Chapel to let the faculty know of their opposition to the presence of an AFROTC detachment on campus had to waid to find out if their lobbying had any effect. Students Inside One victory for the student rally was the faculty decision to allow two representatives of the anti-ROTC group, the Ad-Hoc Committee for a Student Apecolypse, and the editor of the Concordiensis to sit in during the discussion of ROTC. The invitations to Robert Lange '70 and Ray Ahearn '71, who signed a letter from the anti-ROTC group to the faculty, and Neil S. Kramer '70, were extended to include that portion of the adjourned meeting that would discuss the ROTC question this afternoon. President Martin told the three students that the decision to admit them to the meeting was made only with regard to the issue of ROTC and that no commitment either in favor of or against further student attendance or representation at faculty meetings was to be inferred. Constituents Polled Lange and Ahearn had polled their constituents before they accepted the invitation of the faculty. After a vote of 29-15 in favor of accepting the invitatior. -- the opponents preferring to hold out for a completely open faculty meeting -- the two anti-ROTC men and the editor entered tl1c meeting. .J,Phn Bradbury Dies that ROTC \has been a diversion\ and Goble, chairman of the physics that it has helped the College to department, took particular exception become more and more a to Murphy's comments about the technical·engineering institution. supposed hegemony of engineering The motion to admit students to the meeting was made by Robert Herman, chairman of the department of economics. Prof. Samson Ullman suggested that students be admit ted to all faculty meetings. An involved discussion followed which led to the compromise that the decision be ad hoc, referring only to the ROTC matter. / ' 'I .,._ -..:= - Ur. John Mason Bradbury, 61, literary historian and professor of English at the College, died Monday afternoon in Ellis Hospital. He had been ill for some time. . A student of modern Southern ... literature, Prof. Bradbury was the author of \The Fugitives: A Critical Account.\ Published in 1953, the ,<t book examined the remarkable group of writers gathered at Vanderbilt University in the late 1920 1 s, including Robert Penn Warren, John Crowe lJ Ransom, Allen Tate and others. His most recent book, published in 1963, was \Renaissance in the South,\ a survey of the outpouring of literature from the Southern states in this century. He joined the Union faculty as an \\ assistant professor in 1951 and became a full professor in 1956. \In the death of Prof. John , Bradbury, Union College has lost an important contributor to its intellectual life,\ Dr. Harold C. Martin, said. \As a member of the English department since 1951, Prof. Bradbury earned an enviable reputation as a teacher and a ~ scholar-critic,\ Dr. Martin continued. Prof. Bradbury's published study of mid-Southern literary renaissance of , the early decades of this century \remains one of the best works on that movement,\ Dr. Martin said, \but his interests encompassed art and music as well as literature and it was for this range of .appreciative .concern that students and fac1.1lty alike most admired him. \At the time of his death, Prof. Bradbury had just completed work on the latest of a series O'lf articles about contemporary novelists. The scores of friends who visit him during his final illness found him characteristically at work but ready to break off for talk, and that describes as well as anything the mode of life for which he will be remembered,'' tfue President concluded. Prof. Bradbury w:as a Fulbright lecturer at the Univer:sity of Istanbul in 1964-65 and in 1968 he taught at the graduate school ·Of St. Gallen, Switzerland. A native of LouisvilLe, where he was born Aug. 10, 1909, Dr, Bradbury was graduated from Princ~eton University in 1930. He took his master's degree from Northwestern University and his doctorate at Iowa Starte University in 1949. An artillery offic:er during World War II, he taught at the University of Iowa and University of Louisville before joining the UniOtn faculty. He contributed arllicles to many literary periodicals, inducting Accent, Sewenee Review, West•ern Review and the American Literature. and wrote a chapter in the book '\Robert Penn Warren,\ a collection of critical articles edited by John L. Longley, Jr. A memorial service for Prof. Bradbury was held yes.terday morning in Memorial Chapel. Drifting College and technological studies. The allusion to the drift of the College toward an increasing emphasis Continued on page 2 Papandreou Assails America Meddling American military aid has created \a full-fledged state within a state\ in every NATO country,\ which poses a threat to popular government in Europe, says Andreas Papandreou. Mr. Papandreou, a former minister of economic co-ordination, told the Union College audience last night tha_t the April, 196 7 military takeover in his country (Greece)) was condoned by \technocrats in the U.S. State Department,\ who gave the coloneLs leading the coup time to consolodate their position. United States military aid had feel, clothed, trained and armed these officers since 1947, Mr. Papandreou said. THE JOHNSON administration was convinced that \dcmocrac was just being put to sleep in Greece, fl()t ki:lled. ;, Yet two years later Democracy is still asleep. \No Nazi ever tourtured a Greek as these colonels have of former Greek premier George Papandreou said. \Only praise for the regirue is allowed. Anything else leads to jail, ANDREASPAPANDREOU CIA Trained Junta Leaders torture or exile,\ he said. \Young people have been liable to special persecution. In order to study at a university, the police have to certify that there is absolutely no dissent in your soul.\ Continued on page 2 At the moment that this decision was reached, some chanting by the students outside began and the President added the stipulation that the students withdraw across the roadway from Old Chapel before anyone would be admitted to the meeting. Noise generated by the students, however, was not a factor in the decision to admit student representatives, according to C. William Huntley, professor of psychology and secretary of the College. EVALUATION With but one dissenting vote, the faculty council passed a resolution yesterday agreeing in principle with student course-evaluation and desiring continued participation in · this enterprise; and further, that the faculty encourages all instructors to cooperate with the student course-evaluation staff by. distributing evaluation materials in the last meeting of the class. The resolution was passed in the interests of helping keep the statistical sample valid and the reporting complete, however, the resolution does not represent an endorsement of any past or future evaluation.

PAGE 2 · Tlze Alco building near the Wetson's at the foot of NottStreet was consumed in j7.ames around I :00 a.m. last niglzt and Concordiensis photo editor-emeritus Rick Kramer snapped a Poloruid shot of the conj7.agratiun as seen from the north terrace wall. Papandreou . . Continued from page 1 • • • Greek economic development has dropped from eight or nine percent during civilian rule to two or three percent under the present regime, because of the high cost of dictatorship; prop aga nd a, concentration camps, a secret pol.ice network. \LAST WEEK I was in Washington to try to get the U.S. to change its signals to the regime in Greece.\ These signals come from the Pentagon, not the civilian administration, Dr. Papandrcou said. \But the current line of reasoning in Washington is that the 6th Fleet is no longer in Lebanon, it risks riots when it visits Turkey, and Algeria and Egypt hosts the Russian Me d it e rra n e an Fleet. Only Italian and Greek ports remain.\ Mr. Papandreou was elected tG the Greek parliament in 1964, and appointed Minister of Economic Coordination, positions he held until the Center Union Party fell in July 1965. He was arrested by the junta on April 21, 1967 and was held until Dec. 24, I 96 7. In February 1968 he founded the Panhellic Liberation Movement which is active in Europe, the United States and Canada. THE U.S. supports the military with arms and open mora 1 support from senior military leaders, Mr. Papandreou said. Admiral Horatio Rivero, who is in charge of NATO operatioHs in the eastern Mediterranean, has been photographed with the leaders of the military regime. \Being good mem~ers of NATO is more important to him (Adm. Rivero) than dem.ocracy, even though Greece today is a torture chamber of unbelievable proportions,\ Dr. Papandrwu said. The Pentagon feels there must be stability in NATO to insure that the lines of sLLpply to the 6th Fleet are protected. • 'Democratic governme11t for NATO nations is a luxLLry that the United States cannot afford when its military supply I ines are in question,\ the Greek ex.ile said. The Center Union Party that the military coup toppLed was not a threat to the supp{Ht units of the 6th Fleet, Dr. Papandreou said. '\But we could not guarantee that in five years another government chose,n by the Greek people might ask the fleet to leave. \Only dictatorship can claim to make that kind of guarantee,\ he concluded. Faculty CounciL • • Continued from page 1 It seemed that Prof. Murphy's connection of two issues did not support his motion regarding the abolition of ROTC, although it is not possible to tell what effect this might have in the outcome. Six O'clock The two statements that responded to Murphy represented both the center and the conservative views. Only two statements were delivered because of the approach of the hour of six, wllich the by-laws of the faculty list as the time limit for meetings. David Snider. director of religious activities, surprised a large portion of the faculty by saying that he favored the continuance \of ROTC in some relationship to Union College, because it will represent a different perspective. I'd rather have it here where we can be critical of it than send it off to someplace too glad to have it.\ Prof. Snider has led local resistance to the war in Vietnam and is considered a pacifist by many. His call for action limited to stripping ROTC of academic credit seemed to be unexpected by his colleagues. Support For ROTC Prof. Ray Eisenstadt made the last statement before the meeting adjourned and he took a vociferous position in support of ROTC. \Where would we be if we didn't have a corps of trained officers in World War Two?\ he asked. He drew a parallel between opposition of those who oppose ROTC now and the members of the Popular Front and Young Communities who opposed reserved officer training ••when I was a stuclent in 1937-1940.\ \'These people (in ROTC) want peace just as mucl1: as any of the students .parading outside,\ he said. The meeting was adjourned to today because no day next week suited all of the faculty for one reason or another. Prof. Niemeyer insisted that the meeting be continued as soon as possible and his persistence led to the scheduling of the meeting for today. \Those who make peaceful revolution impossible make violott revolution inevitable.\ MAY 16, 1969 'f) LETTERS TO THE EDITOR S.ltellar To the Editm: On Saturday nights, from 5 P.M. to closing time, the Rathskeller is staffed by a num b·e r of men who are discreclits to :the Rathskeller. to their employer, and to Union College. These 1nen are slovenly in their personal appearance, and sloppy in their WGrk. They make no attempt to keep the workililg area clean, a condition which is both inefficient aad unsanitary. These men seem to regard serving customers as a barely tol-erable chore, and are extnemdy discourteous. Pity the poor customer who orders somethit1g unusual · like a tunafis:h sandwich without mayonnaise. If he's lucky, he'll 0nly be glared aL These men oper1ly drink on the job. This is a condition which slwuld never be tolerated, and yet it continues. These men constantly use crude and abusive language. On the Saturday of last Parents Weekend, one family got up and wa~ked out of the Rathskeller because of the crude comments of the counterman. Six nights a week, the Rathskeller is. a nice place to take a friend~ a. date, or family. It is a shame :that it can not be so for the entire week. Sincerely, :]>5 Union Students Names Withheld by Request Integration To the Editor: I would imagine that for many of the Black students who will be integrating Union next fall, the journey from their ghetto cornrnunities to this essentially White, midd.le~class campus will be one of the longest journeys of their lives, for they will be crossing both Friday Night At Aerodrome class a11d race lines to reach this destination. Under these circumstances, it does not seem 4 unreasonable that some or allot' them may choose to live on a Black floor in a White dorm to ease th:e transition, especiall)ll) since the BSA president has expressed the hope that \the need for Blacks to ,Jive together would be only temporary\ until 1 there is a more substantial number to integrate wi,nh.in the various living units. Meanwhile,, 1 these Black students will be integrated in nearly every ·Other way in classes, sports, extra\curricular activities a'nd so~l forth. Surely this academic community is pluralistic enough to permi't some degree of. separateness within this' 1 dominaNt integrationist framework. It is a rare QCcasion when the Aerodrome can br. called a place of entertainment; during the past year ~the clientele at this establishment has changed radically - from college students and working girls to freaks of all types. Well, if one was willing to put up with :this new scene, last Friday night would have proved to be one of those rare nights of entertainment at the Drome. After a series of such nonsense groups as Salt and Peopper, Peaches and Herb, etc., the management finally headlined one of the best fragment groups around - 'The Buddy Miles Express. \Fragment group\ is my term for a group formed around one or two really fine musicians from a pre\iously well-known but now defunct group. I refer, of course to Buddy Miles. For those of you not closely following tl1e recent music scene, Buddy Miles was the drummer for The Electric Flag, an •• American music band.\ The Flag was quite a group: perhaps you've heard their only album, \A Long Time Con1in'.\ Personnel included Mike Bloomfie.Jd and sometimes organist, Barry Goldberg, who is alleged to have taught Al Kooper By ALAN GREENFIELD how to play the organ. As it happened, after the Electric Flag broke up, the musicians went their ways. Miles formed the Express, which in fact is ve1·y reminiscent of the Flag. The group maintains a five man brass section, a very versatile guitarist, a good organist, and of course, Miles on drums. I saw Miles outside about an hour before his performance. Dressed in a dirty dungaree jacket, sporting a primitive medallion. and smelling like he hadn't showered in two weeks, he gave the appearance of a big thug. How deceiving appearances can be! This man, who outside looked like the only thing that he could hold was a black jack or a chain, had unusual .finesse on the drums. The group opened up with an exciting instrumental - the horns, an organ amplified by a Leslie cabinet, giving it a grand organ effect, a great blues guitar solo, an Miles' skill on the drums made it a wonderful audio experience. Later, he followed up with a song by Otis Redding, a man whom Miles and perhaps ail of the music industry admires, called ••cigarettes and Coffee.\ He encled with a really Fonner Secretary Udall To Speak Stewart L. Udall, Secretary of the Interior under President John F. Ken.nedy, will address a Convocation at 8 p.m. Tuesday in Memorial Chapel. Udall held the position of secretary throughout the fuJJ: eight years of the administrations of Presidents Kennedy andJohnson. As secretary, he presided over a departmeiit with wide-ranging responsibilities for the nation's natural resCJI.ll'ce conservation and development, including public land 111anagement, Indian affairs, territories, outdoor recreation, water pollution control, saline water conservation, fisheries and wildlife, National Park Service, Geological Slll'Vey. Bureau of Mines, Oil Import Administration, Bureau of R e c 1 a m at lo n ; and t he Bonneville, Southwestern, Southeastern,. and Alaska Power Administrati(Jns. In his first book, ••rhe Quiet Crisis\ (1963), Udall outlined the land and people story of the nat i o n , ad van c i n g t he \proposition that men must · g r a s p c om p I e t e I y t h e relationship between human stewardship and the fullness of the Americanearth.\ But as the nation increasingly faced problems of polution, racial discord, and urban decay. Udall evolved a \new conservation\ whose subject was man himself. His second book \1976: Agenda for Tommorrow\ (1968), advances that theory. A week after the change of administrations, in January, Udall announced the formation of The Overview Group. a pioneering international consulting firm to work for governments and industries to create a better environment for man. A 1948 graduate of the University of Arizona, Udall is an attorney and the son of a chief justice of the Arizona Supreme Court, the late Levi S. Udall. He is an avid reader and an equally avid outdoorsman. Udall arranged for Robert Frost to read from his own poetry at the inauguration of President Kennedy. Udall brought live theatre ·back to Ford's Theatre after a silence of more than a century. He has climbed Mt. Fuji (in Winter), and Mt. Kilimanjaro, and has traveled down the Colorado River with his family. great version of a song done by Sam and Dave, caHed \Wrap it Up.\ Miles transformed this \soul\ song ·ih.to a blues-rock happening. Someone there commented that he had done this song on his first album, •'Expressway to Your Skull,\ and had reproduced here, without the aid of studio equipment, quite commendably. But Miles .Js more .than an audio experie11ce . seeing him is half the enj~yrnent. His facial expressions, l1is harassing the cymbals, his personnification of the micr()phones, and the general enjoynent of his own music, all add greatly to his presentation. Miles is coming out with a new album called, of all things, \Electric Church.\ I am sure what will be on tllis album won't be considered nusical heresy; in fact, the cuts which he did from his new albulll were actually quite good. If ,this album, which is being prQduced by Jimi Hendrix, is anywhere as good as his first. it should be a big seller. For those of you who would like an Electric Flag style with a black beat, I reeommend his first album, \Expressway to Your Skull.\ For those .of you who are interested, lite Aerodrome will be back in trneform this coming week, offering such top name music talent as Clarence Carter. Robert Sharlet11 Dept. of Political Science Pre-registratio.n ,j, 1969-70 Pre-registration materials are now available in r the Office of the Registrar, R o om 2 • Administration · Building. All students, except [ graduating seniors, must immediately secure these materials. St~dents will see faculty advisers as indicated below: Center I majors - See advisers the week of May 26-30; return course lists not later than June 2. Center II majors - See ,) advisers the week of May 19-23; return course lists not later ·t than May 26. Students who wish to change their major should confer with their Faculty Adviser without delay. A fonn with which to request a cha.Ilge of major must be secured from and returned to the Office of the Registrar. Except for graduating •) seniors, students who will not return to Union in September should notify t.he Office of l the Registrar prior to final r exams. Fishman Ch a i rsChem Dr. Erwin Fishman has been named professor and chairman of the Department of Chemistry. effective Sept. 1, Dr. Harold C. Martin, annou11ced today. Dr. Fishman is currently an associate professor of chemistry at Syracuse University. He succeeds Dr. George H. Reed as department chairman. Dr. Reed, who.came to Union in 1 9 56 as professor and chairman Blither All material definitely rejected froru tile latest copy of the Idol may be picked up at Student Activities this week. Anyone Vlho is interested in attending the big brother picnic, please note that the date is Saturday, May 24 and will begin at 11:30 in Jackson's Garden. There will be various organized activities and refreshments will be served. HoJleTully. a softball game will be afranged, so please bring your baseball gloves. If you are going to attend or have any questio11s, please contact Bruce Garber (QETT) by Friday, May 16. We are hopi.J.1g to see you. H of the department, will continue on the faculty in a teaching(: position. A 1950 graduate of Oberlin CoUege, Prof. Fishman took his doctorate at Brown University in 1954. He joined the Syracuse faculty in 1956 from a position'il at the University of Illinois. He spent the 1960-61 academic year on the faculty of the U11iversity~t of Bordeaux, France. Prof. Fishman has taught in the General Electric Summer ,ll Course for Science Teachers and the National Science Foundation program for gifted high school J students. He has held research grants from the Research Corporation, the Air Force.9 Office of Scientific Research. the Army Research Office, and the Nation Science Foundation.~ He is the author of a number of technical articles and has presented papers at meetings of 11 international professional organizations. He is a member of the American Chemical Society ,-1 the American Institute of Ph y s i c s , t he A mer i can Association of Universityli! · Profess()rs, the Association for the Advancement of Science, and Sigma Xi. IVIAY 1 ' ... ma ii anf ,_, •· Conf o; theOffi • • _, Ex an thercod1 BH- BU- CH~ EE- GL~ HH- HU- OC--' PL-1 PY-: SS-~ SATUR 9:00- Creel Prof. Re tatin Histo ~ in SS 11 Frenc 114-Pn Spani Socio Willison Bio·Io; Math1 Physi1 C.E.~ E.E. ~ Se1 Se1 E.E. <I Econ< Prosper • Econ< Engli~ HistoJ Frenc Germ: • Russi: Phil as P.S. 1 P.S.S Biola! Urban Bio1~ 201·~\'11tc cl'tem t Prof. l.ar Mathe Mathe Mathe Mathe Physic Physic E. 2<1 ' lngvarsso C.E.3 M.E. ~ AS. 2 •

1969 'f) 'I'J reach this er these not seem 4 or all or ' ... IVIAY 16, 1969 • man tn PAGE 3 ''Just ~ecause somebody gets ~au A in college ~doesn't make him the greatest the United States, because maybe his A's will stop when he gets his diploma, live on a dorm to especially.)} has . and the fellow who got C's in school will go on later to g. et the r~eal A's in ·~· life.\ FINAL EXAMINATI(i)N SCH,EDULE Third Term· li96g·69 that \the .together unti1 1 substantial wi,vhin the 1 s will be ·Other s, sports, a•nd so!l academic tic enough of. this' 1 r ationist Conflicts in examinations should: be reported to Mrs. De Groff in •; the Office of the Registrar not later than Friday, May 30, 1969. Examinations will be held in the assigned r.ooms. Listed below is the :code of the buildings to be used. ert Sharlet1.1 tio.n ·iJ in r except , :must [ these faculty below: • • _, .. BH-Bailey Hall B U-Hutterfield Hall CH~Carneigie Hall EE-Electrical Engineering Bldg . G L-Geology Laboratory HH-Hoadley House HU-Humanities Building OC--'Oid Chapel PL-Physics Laboratory PY -Psychology Laboratory SS-Social Sciences Building SATURDAY, JUNE 7 9:00--11:00 A.M. Greek 33 (Aeschylus, Sophocles and Euripides) . in HU 117 . Prof. Reece - See of I:atin 1 2 (Latin Reading II) - in HU I 17 · Prof. Reece ..,. History 34 (Democracy in Crisis: Civil War and Reconstruction). in SS I 15 · Dean Uchterman return later See ,) - of return later t confer Adviser .,• with of from of French 30 (Readings in Contemporary French literature). in HU 114- Prof. Roberts Spanish 12 (Basic Spanish III) - in l!U 115 - Mrs. Rawe Sociology 36 (Comparative Social Systems) - in SS 110 . Mr. Willison Bio·logy 81 (Biochemistry II)- in BN 307- Prof. Miroff Mathematics 4 7 (Complex Analysis) -in CH 108- Prof. Maddaus Physics 11 {Mechanics)· in PL 202 ·Prof. Jones, Prof. Titus C. E. 30 (Structures I) -in CH 306- Mr. Pikul E.E. 33 (Applied Electronics)- Section I ·in EE 24- Mr. Morrison Section 2 · in EE 16 - Prof. Hoffman E. E. 48 (Digital Circuits) -in EE 22 · Prof. T. Schwarz will not ptember ffice of l final r ,.. 2:00~4:00 P.M. Economics 33 (Government and 'Business) - in SS 112 - Prof. Prosper • Economics 34 (Financial Analysis) ·in SS 113 - Mr. Behrens English 66 (Modern English Fiction) - in HU 115 - Prof. Niemeyer History 45 (The Reformation Era) -in SS 012 ·Prof. Hansen French 12 (Basic French III)- in HU 016- Prof. Raser German 1 I (Basic German II)- in HU 014- Mr. Schlebusch Russian 12 (Basic Russian III)- in. HU 110- Prof. Petelchuk Pllilosophy 27 (Ethics)- in HU 112· Mr. Foster P.S. 11 (The American Political System)- in SS 016- Mr. Hartwig P.S. 54 (Chinese Foreign Policy)- inSS 115 ·Mr. Thurston Biology 13 (Biology of Plants · Core III) - in BH 308 - Prof. 1 continue teaching(: Urban t Biol~y 14 (Origin and Diversity <Jf Animals- Core IV) · in BU 201 .~~to f. Roth Oberlin took his in Cltemistry 42 (Advanced Analytical Chemistry) - in BU 104 - t Prof. Lanese Mathematics 14 (Calculus III)· inCH 201 · Prof. Holt Mathematics 24 (Geometry)· in CH207- Prof. Stone Mathematics 26 (Numerical Analysis)- in CH 210 · Prof. Sarma Mathematics 33 (Abstract Algebra ll)- inCH 206 · Mr. Leach Physics 36 (Classical Mechanics)- in PL 105 ·Mr. Schubert Physics 44 (Solid State). in PL 104 · Prof. Gmnwald Syracuse a position 'ii He year e E. 24 (Electric and Magnetic Circuits) - in EE 22 - Prof. Ingvarsson taught in Summer,~ and • school J t research Research ir Force.~ v Research, ffice, and ~ , a number and has of 11 <t1 Society,_, t of mer ican · '\:' for Science, C.E. 31 (Engineering Design)- in Cll 301- Prof. Williams M.E. 34 (Heat Transfer)- inCH 108- Prof. Shane brook AS. 25 (World Military Systems)- in HH ·Capt. Steinmeier MONDAY,.JUNE9 9:00--11:00 A.M. Camp. Ed. 20 (The Modern Temper)· in HU 115 ·Prof. Gado Camp. Ed. 23 (The Second World War Era 1933-1950) ·in SS 016- Prof. Hansen, Mr. Berk Camp. Ed. 29 {East Asian Ideas and Ideologies) ·in SS 012 -Mr. 'Thurston Camp_ Ed. 32 (Modern Man in Continental Fiction)- in HU 114- Prof. Niemeyer Camp. Ed. 61 (Human Ecology)- in BU 201 ·Dr. Rozendaal Camp. Ed. 64 - (Great Ideas of Modern Physics) . in PL 105- Prof. Wylen Camp. Ed. 70 (literature and Psychology) - in PL 202 · Prof. Calabria Camp. Ed. 80 {Individual Uberty and Social Order: Areas '(,)f Conflict)- in SS 112 -Prof. N. Allen Psychology 49 (Clinical Psychology U) -in PY 102 - Mr. Weitz A.S. 31 (Growth and Development of Aerospace Power II) · .in HH- Capt. Jolmson 2:00-4:00P.M. Economics 11 (Elementary Economics, Part II) - in SS 016- M!. Behrens, Prof. Thimm Economics 50 (Seminar in Industrial Economics) - in SS 11(). Prof. D.S. Holmes Englisil 12 {The English Literary Tradition: Victorian and Modern)· Section 1 · in HU 115 - Prof. Nelson Section 2- in HU 114 ·Prof. Murphy English. 54 (Shakespeare: The Later Plays) - in HU 114 . Pro.f. Murphy Chinese 12 (Basic Chinese III) - in HU I 19 · Prof. Woo German 32 (Readings from the 19th and 20th Century Literature)· in HU 016 ·Mr. Peschka _ Russian 32 (Advanced Russian .II)· in HU 113- Prof. Petelchtrk Philosophy 15 (Contemporary Theology) - in SS 115 - Prof. Snider Biology 36 (Invertebrate Zoology)· in PL 202- Prof. Miller Biology 56 (Animal Organogenesis)· in BH 304 ·Prof. Rappaport Chemistry 40 (Advanced Organic Chemistry)- in BU 201 ·Prof. W. Martin Mathematics 10 (Calculus I) - in CH 210 - Prof. Ballard Mathematics 34 (Differential Equations) -in CH 207- Mr. Leac:h E. 12 (Systems, Computers, and Design III) . Sections 1, 2- in CH 206 -Prof. Haag Sections 3, 4- in CH 111 -Prof. Aubrey Sections 5, 6- in EE 16 ·Prof. Goodheart Nor:man Vincent Peale 2:00--4:00 P.M. Music 10 (lntroduction to Music)- in HU 019- Prof. Curtis Greek 12 (Plato) · in HU 213 - Mr. Ross History 56 (The Catholic Church in Latin America) -in SS 110 - Prof. Bristol Physics 24 (Statistical Thermodynamics) - in PL 204 - Prof. Schick Psychology 'lO{A First Course in Psychology)- Section l - in EE 22- Mrs. Hesse Section 2 - in PL 202 - Prof. Girdner Section 3 - in PY 102 - Prof. Huntley Psychology 24 (Social Psychology) -in SS 115 -Prof. Calabria Psychology 30 (Theory of Personality)- in SS 016- Prof. Graves E. 20 (Rigid·Body Mechanics)- inCH 111 -Prof. Panlilio WEDNESDAY, JUNE 11 9:00-ll:OOA.M. Economics 10 {Elementary Economics, Part I). in SS 016 -Prof. Bennett, Mr. Bryant Economics 40 :(Labor Economics) · in SS 115- Prof. Prosper English 36 (History of the English Language) -in HU 110- Prof. Nelson English 64 (The English Novel in the 19th Century) · in HU 116 - Prof. Ullmann Philosophy '10 (Introduction to Philosophy) -in HU 115 ·Miss Parker Sociology 12 (Human Society II) - in SS 112 · :Mr. Willison Biology 32 (Biology of the Vertebrates) - in BH 304 - Prof. George Chemistry 12 (Fundamental Chemistry H) · in BU 20 l - Prof. Schaefer, Prof. Maycock Chemistry 31 (Organic Chemistry II) -in BU 201 - Prof. Sowa Chemistry 3 7 (Physical Chemistry II) · in BU 201 -Prof. Festa Mathematics 30 (Ordinary Differential Equations). Section 1 - in CH 207- Prof. Stone Section 2 - in CH 206 - Prof. Riley Mathematics 31 (Linear Algebra)- in CH 210 ·Prof. Sarma Psychology 31 {Abnormal Psychology) . in PY 102- Prof. Pearce E. 22 (Science of Engineering Materials)- inCH 108- Prof. Leary E. 40 (Stress Analysis)- inCH 111 -Prof. Panlilio Sections 7, 8- in EE 22 ·Prof. Craig 2:00--4:00 P.M. E. I 8 (Elements of Thermodynamics) · in CH 301 - Prof. Ketchum C.E. 44- (Engineering Planning)- in CH 304- Prof. Harlow M.E. 42 (Thermal Energy Conversion) -in CH 111 - Prof. Aubrey TUESDAY,JUNE 10 9:00--11:00 A.M. Drama 23 (History of the Theatre: Modern) -in HU 119 · Mr. Weil Economics 25 (Principles of Accounting)- in OC- Mr. Malik Economics 3 9 (Public Finance) -in SS 110 · Prof. Herman English 23 {The Modern American Novel) - in HU 115 - Prof. Sanford English 61 {The Later Romantics) -in HU 016- Prof. Freund History 69 (Historiography) · in SS 117 - Prof. Bristol German 12 (Basic German III)- in HU 114. Mr. Schlebusch Philosophy 21 (Mathematical Logic)- in HU 110- Miss Parker Political Science 12 (International Politics) . in SS 016 - Prof. Connor Sociology 43 (Social Stratification)- in SS 213- Mr. Willison Geology 11 (Historical Geology)- in GL 24- Mr. Dickerson Mathematics 40 (Orthogonal Functions and Boundary Values) · in CH 206 - Prof. Bick Physics 13 (Electric and Magnetic Effects and Optics)- in PL 20'2 - Prof. Wylen, Prof. W. Schwarz, Prof. C. Swartz E. SO (Fortran Programming) ·in EE 22- Mrs. Corman Music 33 (New Artistic Freedom) · in HU 019 · Prof. H. Wilson Latin .34 (The Aeneid: A Critical Approach) ·in HU 119- Prof. Freund English 22 {The American Short Story)- in HU 115 ·Prof. Gado History 22 (History of Modern Britain: 1660·1967) ·in SS 115- Prof. Finkelstein History 38 (Democracy and Education in America) -in SS 213- Prof. Potts History 72 {The Soviet Period)- in SS 112 ·Mr. Berk Philosopily 32 (Modern Philosophy) -in HU 116- Prof. Peterson Political Science 80 (Junior Seminar in Systematic Political Analysis)- Section 1 ·in SS 010- Mr. Hartwig Section 2 ·in SS 014- Mr. Nichols Geology 40 (Structural Geology) -in GL 24- Prof. Bayly Math~matics 1 2 (Calculus II) - in PL 202 - Prof. Gillette, Mrs. Corman Mathematics 18 {Introduction to Abstract Systems) - Section 1 - in CH 201 - Prof. Bic~~;_- Section 2 - in CH 207 • Prof. Seiken Mathematics 42 (Vector Analysis and Complex Variables)- inCH 206 - Prof. Gillette Physics 34 (Physical Optics)- in PL 106 -Prof. Goble C.E. 41 (Legal Aspects of Engineering)- inCH 304- Prof. Harlow E.E. 43 (Advanced Electronics)- in EE 24- Prof. C. Allen

PAGE 4 Fourth Floor South For Blacks Termed Necessary And Proper By JOSE DACOSTA and, MICHEL WILLIAMS Many issues back. a letter einitlcd. ''Prejmlice,\ appeared as a n~sponsc to the then proposed Black Floor. It was so laden with superricial idealisms of how society ought to be. at Union and in general. that a response secmcu quite unwarranted. This perceptionlcss leHer reflected. so we thought. tile views of a sinal! minority of whites who fail to sec the realities nf society and the realities of the developing black mood. However. after being approached by many white students and reading a recent article entitled. \Union: l ntegration not Scgregat ion\ (Concordiensis, May 13), it is ev.ident that a larger segment of Union's white population frowns upon the idea of black stuucnts living together. This fact in itself is of no consequence. however, we do believe that when minds wander it is up to those who have expericnceu the I;ealities of the situation being discussed to reorient the misguideu. The Black Floor. along with the Black Students Alliance, represents the most effective means for the black students at Union to relate to one another in all facets of their college experience. students. regardless of where they live, a place where they can relax ami simply bull about things that we have found do not come ap when speaking with whites. The central theme in Mr. l\1ell's opinion. as in that of many people opposed to the Black floor. is that black students should be spread across the campus rather than coming together to live. This, supposedly. would enable whites to understand black people's situation better than they already do. There is sufficient material in the literature and there will be coun tlcss occasions for meaningful discussion between blacks and whites in the classrooms, cafeterias, etc. to give this understanding without the need for black students to act as walking textbooks of the problems. The black students living together can provide each other with the social environment they are more accustomed to but cannot get living alone with whites. Many people fail to realize that the average white student has the kind of social life on campus he is accustomed to withollt consciously seeking it, whereas the black student must make a deliberate effort in this regard . There is an assumption in the article, that the black students coming to Union may not have had the same academic foundation as tlw typical Long lsland student and hence may need assistance in rnaking as academ.ic readjustment. As we understand Mr. MeH, he thinks that all or most of the black stud,cnts coming here this September wiJ;J face this problem and we think this is due to a misunderstanding as to their preparation. Slightly less than half the incom.ing black freshmen will be coming the Union through project HOPE, a program for students whose academic performance thus far docs not match up to the typical Union student's. All others have been accepted to Union through the usual admissicms procedure and thus should have no more difficulty than the average Union freshman in making academic readjustments. The black students living together will create a situation in which freshmen will live with upperclassmen who will be able to ''show them the ropes.\ Furthermore, the black student having problems academically will have less difficulty getting the assistance he needs because his brothers will be concerned wit!\ his progress. There is no reason to assume, as Mr. Mell seems to do, that such assistance will be unavailable to the student in need of it if he lives on fourth floor South. We submit that an integrated society is effective, and perhaps desirable, when the component g·roups share a previous understanding af each other's interests and desires, as well as a g e n u in e bum anita l'ia n philosophy. This will guarantee that a group's interests will not be considered expendable by the whole society as the intefests of black people in this country have been treated by the American society at large. White America has shown for too long that it does not wish to integrate on a meaningful basis. We say that integration as the situation exists today is just a euphemism for the continuance of a white power structare that subjugates minority groups iH America. The few success stories of blacks \who have made it\ are no longer sufficient in our viewpoint of the preponderance of our people must continue to live at standards this country should and could have wiped out years ago. Many of our brothers and sisters feel, as we do. that we cannot wait for the goodness of white people to extend to us and out people what is justly ours. We must equip ourselves with the tools (education being one of them) that will help our people and---of ut-most importance---be able to do this with our identities as black people intact. This ultimately is the purpose of having a Black Floor, in our opinion. Mr. Mell, the author of the article which appeared in the May 13th issue of Concordy, speaks about the white stuucnts who will not come back to fourth floor South College because they would feel like an isolated minority. How docs he think black students will and do feel. being thinly spread across the five dormitories presently being used and the sixteen fraternities? Having the Black Floor will premit black students to function in the college community and still have someplace where they can \come home.\ Its atmosphere will reduce some of the burdens unique to black students. In a closed caucus with the Black Students Alliance, Dick Gregory said that the black student at a white college is a soldier in addition to being a student. What must be done by the black students in the colleges today is to create a situation in which their brothers that come behind them can be students without being soldiers. We agree with this interpretation. Integration, Not Assimilation By ARYEH NEIER Mr. Mell states that it is fortunate that the black students have chosen to come to Union, \a p rc dominatly white, m iddlc -class. mini-society,\ despite the prospect of a great deal of discomfort due to their arrival into the above environment from one in which \their connections with whites up until now have probably been quite minimal.\ We ask, \Fortunate for whom?\ and wonder why he did not choose to go to one of the many black colleges in the country rather than come to Union where he \ ... could comfortably fit in with members of ... \ his \ ... own race.\ More important :\1r. Mel! is concerned with assimilation. a concern that we share but in a different context. He is concerned with the assimilation of freshmen into the college community while we are concerned with the assimilation of black people into the mainstream of American society. Previously, assimilation (integration) meant the reject ion of one's blackness and attempt to be white. The Black Floor is a means of preventing this kind of destructive assimilation. It is s:Jfc to say that not all black stuJcnts wlll choose to live on the 11om: llllwcvcr. its cxistenCL' will pruvidc black The f o I i owing article appeared in the Cornell Daily Sun on February 14, 1969 as a guest column. Those of us who like to think of ourselves as integrationists have, it seems to me, been guilty of a certain intellectual fuzziness when confronted by the demands of black separatists. By and large, we have failed to make clear what we mean by racial integration. We have been quick to accuse the separatists of m indlcss rhetoric while the accusation might well be turned against ourselves. I write as an integrationist and I dit·ect this criticism against myself. This essay is an effort to make amends. While I am an integrationist, I am not an assimilationist. For two hundred years, since the time of the German Jewish philosopher Moses Mendelssohn, a debate over assimilation has raged within the Jewish community_ The Standard Jewish Encyclopedia, edited by Cecil Roth, begins its dcfmition \Assimilation: Loss of n'ational or religious identity by absorption into the environment . . . \ and ends with the warning that \it remains the greatest threat to J cwish survival in the Western World.\ Mendelssohn's followers in Germany were concerned, in the first instance, with the entry of assimilated Jews like themselves into Berlin society. They became contemptuous of the East European Jews, who maintained JAY BILLIARD LOUNGE 167 JAY ST. SPECIAL RATE6 FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS Bring Your Dates Free Parking In Rear Executive Director, NYCLU distinctive clothing, speech, food and religious practices. It eventually came as something of a surprise to many Berlin Jews that Hitler's concentration camps did not differentiate between them and the Jews of Eastern Europe. Many black separatists, I suspect, fear th.at integrationists are really assimilationists seeking to erase whatever is distinctive in the black experience. As an integrationist, I for one, support efforts to emphasize the traditions and culture of black Americans. My support for these efforts flows from the same impulse as my support for integration: I see both. integration and the development of black identity as paths toward the goal of equality. In fact, the success of integration as a means of moving towards equality seems to me, in part, to depend on the progress of the movement to establish black consciousness and pride. Only when blacks are MARRIAGES BVMAIL $10 APPLICATION FORM $2 FAST SERVICE NO MAIL ANSWERED WITH OUT FORM FEE. William. V. Trowbridge 35 Woodcrest Avenue Dayton, Ohio 45405 integrated as equals can integration be expected to work. It is part of the tragedy of the black experience in this country that blacks were assimilated to white society-in the sense that a consciousness of a black tradition and identity were systematically erased-without being integrated into white society. I believe that if we are to move toward racial equality we must reverse the history of the last three hundred years-reverse the history of assimilation and begin the process of integration. An effort to establish a Black Studies Department or an Afro-American Center at a college seems to me a method of filling a gap in the intellectual life of a college M 0 0 N T R I P RESERVATIONS. RESERVATIONS NOW BEING ACCEPTED FOR TRIPS TO THE MOON. TOTAL COST $1500, $10 DOWN AND $10 A MONTH. APPLICATION $2 , NO MAIL ANSWERED WITH OUT APPLICATION FEE. William V. Trowbridge 35 Woodcrest Avenue Day1on, Ohio 45405 DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legol Beverages 11 8 - 1 20 JAY 5TRfET MAY 16, 1'969 Cofleg.e Begins Work-Study In Engineering Sciences Starting In September Ut~ioH College next fall will begin a new cooperative work-study program designed to assist transfer studeHts who have completed the first two years in engineering or eHgineering science. The new program will permit the completion of the junior and senior years iR a three-year period, while the student is ernployed. D1:1ring this time the student will spend 22 weeks of each year in fuUtime study anci up to 30 weeks working in aH engineering position. A number of pressures have been responsibie for the development of this variation in the usual academic program. Two-year colleges in New York and in other states graduate many students with an engineering-science background intended to prepare them for the two final years at a four-year institution. Often because of financial considerations or the assumption of family responsibilities, these graduates are una:ble to attent college on a fulltime basis. ln many instances it has been necessary for them to embark on an extended program of evening courses requiring up to six or seven years for graduation. Many employers of these young men are eager to have them complete their work for a degree and in some cases are Good Manners .... wil!ling to help with the expense. 18 Union opera·tcs on a schedule that calls for the taking offhree courses in each of three 10-week terms in an acadenuc year. Fulltime students therefore wtnplete nine courses in ·the junior and nine in the senior u year. Under the cooperative program the student would be ~ . expected to attend Union <ltuing twa of the three tenns, and he would therefore require d1ree years to complete his 18 courses. , This cauld be accelerated somewhat if the student chose to cany an evening course during the period when he is not ' 1 in fulltime attendance. The progra1n has the advantage of placing the student in classes with regular, fullthne students, rather than forcing him to take all of his work in .the ' evening. The plan also ben cfi ts the fuHtimc students because it brings into the classroom other students who have hacl i.' worthwhile work experience. Cooperative programs have long been a part of the American educa.tional scene. Employms have welcomed the graduates not only because they have had valuable practical experience hut in many cases they derive more from their theoretical courses when they can see the application of them to their work. these lighter weight tropical suits. Why? Because they are tailored in Deansgate's understated natural shoulder construction. Because the fabric is a well-disciplined 55% Dacron® polyester and 45% wool blend. Because there are many colors to choose from. From $75. Deansgate® Dall's Men's Shop 1599 UPPER UNION STREET MAY 1'6, 1;1· ~.No 11 I J J t ····.~To Nobel Wald, wl Davidson if May 21 l most curr had on Cl Since extempor: Generatio Future\ ·a Wald has of the fE on studen today. It coined tl \The CUII adult um ago in t Wald des( that spee' \I fe, myself, leading a research 1 March 4 I'm runn just living Wald, Prize in who is Biology a taught s described white-h: Mot In \ I magi isolated after fim but stud already t< five othe on each 1 nothing RA, w ba~y§ittiJ \su . :Sf-hat, th~itua plQ;f of n¥ Bof, parallel but man disturbin life arm being at are on ~ Germ~tny Gun, ·wl weapdn potential Event charac Rom bare ostensibl the me1 Gunner< played spending his last r returninl English accents unfortur start tr: officer . that nig at·en't ab his way of the s here are Stanc ,; is O'Ro1 Anders barracks ends u '\ attemp O'Rourl Feathen 3 time -to duty, E play's d himself \' having 1 report author it long jai ~ and, no will ha\J for O'R, ~------------------------------------------------~ ~- s thus

1'969 w year. ·tile senior u be~. during and he t11ree , ted chose course eisnot ' 1 the him in the '· it other hacl n s have ave had hut more courses the their MAY 1'6, 1969 PAGE 5 'c; l;l· , .. Nobel Prize Laureate George Wald ·To lnaugerate Davidson Fellowship Norwich Tops Nine showed themselves to be a tough opponent, both offensively and defensively. The Cadets pounded out eleven base-hits, while hurler Paul Cochran, although he was not overpoweringly fast, showed excellent control on the mound. The support behind him, ill both the infield and outfield, was equally good. Norwich, however, regained a two-run lead in the eighth, as Knight cracked a base·hit and JohnsoN doubled him home for the insurance tally. Nobel Prize laureate George Wald, who will be the first Davidson Fellow speaker here if May 21 and 22, is perhaps the most current sepaker Union has had on campus in recent years. Since his tremendous extemporaneous speach on \A Generation in Sea~ch of a Future\ at M. I. T. Ol!l March 4, Wald has been acclaimed as one of the few original spokesmen on student unrest in the country today. It was George Wald who coined the memorable phrase, \The cure for student unrest is adult unrest\ just three weeks ago in the New York Times. Wald describes the aftermath of that speech: \I feel a liUle desperate myself, si11ce I was already leading a pretty full life·-with research and teaching. Since the March 4 speech it's as though I'm running for something. I'm · just living from day to day.\ . Wald, who won the Nobel Prize in medicine in 1967 and who is Higgins Professor of Biology at Harvard where he has taught since 1934, has been described as a \soft-spoken w bite-haired 62 year-old By J> AUL ANDREWS professor .of biology who Wald comes to Union as the succeeding Davidson Fellows can specializes in the chemistry of first Davidson Fellow under a match George Wald's eminence vision.\ St11dent unrest, he has gift fund to the college and relevance, the college stands said,. is a symptom caused by extablished last year by Trustee everything ,to gain through the larger issues: the Vietnam war, and Mrs. Henry Schaffer. If fund. nuclear ~eapons, the ABM, ;-----------------------....-...... p e a c e. t.~rm e d raft , t he w · 1· 5 To p I a y militarization. of the nation, and I 0 n . . . the ''mi!\itary-industrial-labor union complex \·-not the facts of life but \thefacts of death,\ he says. Hugh Allen Wilson, associate professor of music, and Miss Marianne Pashler, first violin of the Northeastern New York Philharmonia, will present a recital for violin and harpsichord at 8:30 p.m. next Friday (5/23) at Memorial Chapel on the Union campus. The recital is sponsored by the College•sDepartment of Arts. The program will be \Sonata in D Major,\ Corelli; \Tourbillons \La Timide,\ and '\La Dauphine,\ Rameau; \Sonata in B Minor,\ Bach; \Sonata for Solo Violin,\ Prokofieff; and \Suite Inalienne,\ Stravinsky. The Cadets got on the scoreboard first, pushing across a run in the fourth inning. Jack Blanchard, the third-baseman, singled, stole second and scored on a base-hit by first- baseman Bob Johnson. The visitors added another run in the fifth, whefl Blanchard singled with two outs and came home on a double by catcher Frank Knight. The Dutchmen carne back with a run in the seventh, capitalizing when Dale Long doubled, took third on a ground out, and scored on a wild pitch. The run proved to be necessary as the Garnet staged a spirited rally in the last of the ninth. Douglas let off with a bloop single dow11 the right-field lin.e, and Long followed with a single to left. Left-Fielder Mike Solomon then put both runners in scoring position, sacrifice bunting them over to second and third. With the heart of the batting order coming up, the Dutchmen were looking the the base·hit that would tie the ballgame. The best Ken ·Pearce cmtld do, however, was to lift a sacrifice fly deep to left, which scored Douglas easily from third. Mike McGee then four- popped to third to end the ballgame. For aU ·his concentrations on student unrest, Wald considers it a minor issue: \Nothing worse could happen in this country than for people's minds to be taken off the ABM, armaments, the Vietnmese war and the military-industrial-labor union complex in order to worry about students on campus. That's a red herring,\ he says. On campus, Wald will be speaking <'>n \The Origin of Death\ at 8:30 p.m. Wednesday in Memor-ial Chapel. On Thursday his visit will be highlighted by a Teach-In at 1 :30 p.m. on the grassy knoll in front of Nott Memorial. \Students in the World Today\ will be his topic. More Perspectives On Protest The first two articles of this series indicated that S.O.S.'s campus action is basically aimed at revolution instead of reform, and is anti-capitalist in nature. By ALAN ZIEGLER dismal failure. Mark Rudd had \Either you are part of the thought that ·the confrontation solution or you are part of the approach could \change people ·s problem\ understanding of society, getting One difficulty is that this them to understand the forces at approach relies on the stupidity work to create the university the and fascist tic tendancies of those way it is.\ But not enough in power. It is built on the experienced this. assumption that it will be a clear \The alternatives don't exist for people to make up their own minds,\ and this is in contradiction to the precept of participatory democracy, which is \Let the people decide.\ Mounties Perform Well In New Production However, many of the unattached \left\ people on campuses have either not yet reached these conclusions, or have rejected them and are only trying to make the best out of the university as it is. They may use radical tactics, such as obstruction or disruption, but not necesarrily have a radical consciousness of what underlies the issues. This distinction between radical ideas and radical actions is crucial. And there is a third group that accepts the radical analysis but does not feel that the university should be destroyed; they will only carry their radicalism up to a point. Confrontation can be a beautiful, liberating experience, like it was for a few weeks at Columbia last spring. It was an existential experience: nobody knew it was going to happen and nobody knew how it would end. Energy flowed on campus and stuqents of all political beliefs choice between black and white, and that people who may disagree with the radicals on some points will join them because they offer the better alternative. At Columbia, Chicago, and many other places, those in power have displayed a proclivity toward fullfilling the radicals' prophesies of repression, and have done more for the radical movement than ten Mark Rudds. Who can deny that Lyndon Johnson was the biggest recruiter for the New Left with his insanity in At Columbia last spring, theoretically the radical movement was being run according to the tenets of democracy. But the S.D.S. leadership had certain priorities, and when anyone came up with a proposal outside of these priorities, the responce was a paternalistic \We know better than you,\ which in effect says \The vanguard must lead the politically unsophisticated masses.\ By ALLAN MELL Imagine finding yourself isolated at Union five weeks after finals, with nothing to do but study for the tests you already took, sitting around with five other guys who are jumping on each other because they have nothing better to do, with an RA, who'd have trouble ba~y§itting for a five-year old, \su you. . a'-Ji.at, sketchily, is similar to th~ituation anmnd which the plq:f of Events While Guarding Th~ Bofors Gun revolves. {The parallel may be a bit tenuous, but many of those events are disturbingly similar to everyday life around here.) Instead of being at Union, the seven men are on guard duty in post-war Germ~tny, guarding the Bofors Gun, ·which turns out to be a weap0n with all the ballistic potential of a slingshot. Events centers around two characters, the .young Bombardier, Terry.Evans, who is ostensibly in charge, ·and one of the men serving guard duty, Gunner O'Rourke. Evans, who is played by Spencer Golub, is spending what he expects to be his last night in Germany , before returning to England (these are English soldiers, although the accents ate necessarily, but unfortunately, American), to start training to become an officer. If he can get through that night, with six men who at·en't about to follow his o1·ders, his way will be dear to attaining of the same goal aU ROTC men here are working towards. Standing in the way of Evans ,. is O'Rourke, played by Andrew Anderson, who leaves the barracks to get cigarettes, but ends up getting drunk and '\ attempting suicide. When O'Rourke and his companion, Featherstone, fail to return in 3 time -to relieve the guards on duty, Evans is faced with the play's dilemma. In order to clear himself of any blame for not \ having guards on duty, he must report 0 'Rourke to the authorities, which will mean a :- long jail sentence for O'Rourke and, not incidentally, that Evans will have to remain in Germany for O'Rourke's court-martial and returning to England to become an officer. If Evans doesn't turn O'Rourke in, he faces the danger of being caught without any guards by his supervisors and even the chance that drunken, bloody O'Rourke may die during the night. Although the first act works towards the main issue of the play only slowly, it is highly entertaining and slightly unnerving. With no one able to control the group, the men have a verbal free.for-all, which allows the playwright, John McGrath, to display his best writing. In the second act he is less effective. Too many .of the highly tense confrontations McGrath depicts are disappointedly ended with lines like, \'Life is too short,\ or \You made your bed, and now you blooky well better lie in it.\ By the end of the play however, he has succeeded in showing the absurdity of the situation the men are ill and the true, slightly suprising nature of these men, especially Evans. The acting is simply fantastic. Golub plays Evans with perfection·, whether sitting hunched up in the midst of the barracks or suddenly exploding at one of the men, only to become again a meek teenager among rather virile adults seconds later. Anderson as O'Rourke was powerful all the way througl1 and yet still able to make sudden transitions to near-tenderness when necessary. All the other actors were nearly flawless, but I expecially enjoyed Tony Berk's performa11ce as Gunner Shone. Although his part was the smallest of all the gunners, Berk stood out in his portrayal of a slightly drunk, rather foggy-minded soldier. I have never seen such a perfectly black look on anyone's face before. l'he tenuous alliance between these groups (and between the whites and the blacks) makes management and analysis of the situation difficult. One cannot talk of \student rebels\ as a monolithic interest group, as the mass media blah blah blah often does. The issues that S.D.S. uses to gain support are often issues that liberals can sympathize with: At Columbia last spring, liberals were opposed to the IDA and the Gym, but for a variety of reasons. Some just opposed the way decisions had been made. S.D.S. believes that these issues are manifestations of an evil university, but many students didn't see it this way and therefore were satisfied with surface concessions, thus breaking the confrontation. They participated in or supported radical tactics because of the lack of alternatives, but they really didn't have a radical interpretation of society. (or at least they felt that the changes you can get within the basic structure are better than n<>thing.) S.D.S.'s vision that Columbia University would cease to exist an.d that in its place would be a \liberated\ university at the vanguard of the revolutionary ffi()vement (a la Mao) failed to materialize last spring. This year's spring offensive was a Now's The Time To MARRY ME Spring catches a young man's fancy Buy your Wedding Ring at Maurice Graubart & Sons J.ewelers, 166 Jay St. .got hooked on it. However, confrontation proved to be insufficient at Columbia, an.d unfortunately it has been deified by too many radicals, to the point of diminishing returns. This spring the confrontation was not existential at Columbia, and people were pretty tired of occupying buildings and seeing them occupied. Occupying a building can only work when it's good theatre, and it's gotten to the point where there is nothing dramatic about it. It doesn't move anybody. And it doesn't relate to the politics of the situation. Two fa.cts about confrontation can be discerned from th~ Colambia experience. One is that confrontation cannot be maintained indefinately, and the other is that once a confrontation ltas been broken, it is nearly impossible to regain for quite awhile. The idea of confrontation is that \Those in the middle have to take sides.' )'ou can be on our side or theirs·, there's'no room in the middle. As Cleaver said, DEALERS WANTED Spray Perfumes, Ounce size copies of very famous brands selling up to $60 per ounce. Suggested retail $3.50. Your \east $11.25 dozen; 3 dozen $29.00; 6 dozen $53~00; 12 dozen $101.50. WM. TROWBRIDGE 35 Woodcrest Ave., Dayton, Ohio 45405 Vietnam? At Columbia, eventually Kirk resigned, a more liberal (at least more diplomatic) president replaced him, and virtually every department in the school started re-examining itself. A third choice was offered, and the confrontation was broken. Many of those unattached \lefts\ split from the S.D.S., led Strike Committee and opted for the hard work of restructuring, to see just how the university could be transformed to fit their vision, a task that S.O.S. displayed no interest in. Radicals, must look beyond confrontation. And they must look beyond taking over buildings for just any reason. You get into the problem of escalation. If you take over a building for a relatively minor issue, then what will you do next? Perhaps the most important thing though is that students are just plain getting bored, and are not relating to it. Another problem that must be wo1ked out is the conflict between the idea of participatory democracy and the concept of the lift as the vanguard. Mark Rudd has said Before the second occupation of Hamilton Hall, the students there voted not to occupy. S.D.S. leaders called for more discussion and then took another vote, which was in favor of occupying. A moderate student asked for more discussion, and he was told that the vote had already been taken. This king of subtle manipulation behind the facade of participatory democracy leads to bitterness and alienation, things S.O.S. is trying to overcome. These conflicts usually come between the left-liberal students and the radicals, and it basically comes down to the question of whether one should act in good faith toward the university, trying to rid it of its ills, or whether the basic structure must be changed. This will be explored in the next article .• •\ Jtj • ,. ... ,.. ........ ,. .......... ~ TAKE OUT SERVICit ~ Hot Dogs- Homburgs ~ Hot Meals· Fish Fries ~ L ~ ~ CAV AllERS ~ ~ ~ e Oper. Monday thru Fr~doy e \\ 6 A.M. • 1 A;M. '1111 L Friday and Saturday ~ e 6 A.M. • 4 A.M. e ~ Carner Erie Blvd. ~ • & Jefferson St. e : Phone 346-9153 -, .... ,.. ... ,..,.,. .... ,.. .... r ... ,.. PHOTOGRAP·HERS The Publications Office will buy usable prints for the 1969-70 catalogue. Generous Fee Special requirements: girls on campus. campus scenes, student activities (music, Mountebanks, art studio, intramurals), student life, faculty in action. Submit prints or contacts to Mr. Carman, Publications, Lamont House. ___ _. tl. s thus miss any chance of Williant Dougherty, Donald Tomei, Mark Boylan and Mark Powell, the other gunners, all deserve individual praise for their performances. Stephan Glanzrock., the director, must have had a difficult time with this play, which contains constant shif.ts of mood on the part of all the players. He couldn't have done a better job. Serving Union for 3 generations.

' ··:i Concordy Sports It ri PAGE 6 MAY ~'o, 1 969 Lax Excens In Orange Loss Despite a heads-up, hustling performance, the Garnet stickmen could not avoid defeat at the hands of the powerful Syracuse squad, falling to the Orange Wednesday afternoon, 14-7. Syracuse was indeed a formidable opponent for the Garnet, boasting All-American attacks, four lines of fast, tough midfielders, a beefy defensive unit, and a veteran goalie. The Orange had lost o11ly to national ~.:ruwn I.:UI•I·tendcr Army in eleven starts, and had bcakn Clarkson, 22-5, Hobart, 21-5, and Colgate, 17-3. The Dutchmen, on the other hand, were injury-plagued and undermanned, lacking the services of defensmen Pup Gould and Kevin Monahan. Both defensemen Don DeMichele and middle Steve Bauer savv action, but neither was 1:1p to par. By BILL HOLERAN Syracuse's superiority, however, did not seem to ma:l<e any defference to the Garne.t, as they outhustled the Orange fr()m opening whistle to final gun. ifhe score was only 8-6 Syracuse -with less than four minutes remaining in the third quarter before the Orange fmally found the ranp;e to outscore the Garnet 7-1 intl1e later going. The most spectacular .player on the field for the Garnet was goalie Ed Green, who played almost unbelievably in the nets at hmes. Green made seven teen saves, most of them in crucial one-on-one situations. Late in the third quarter, Green was knocked unconscious wh.ile leading a rush upfield, :but returned to action and played the rest of the way. Coach Bruce Allison had high praise for Green after the game, commenting, \Ed made some Weekend Features Rivalry; Nine, Stickmen Meet RPI By GARY PREVOST The Union-RPI rivalry is renewed tomorrow as the Garnet and the Engineers clash in lacrosse and baseball. The batsmen meet orr Alexander Field at 2:0D p.m., while the stickmen travel to Troy for a 2:00 p.m. encounter on '86 Field. The Union frosh will also face their Engineer Iacross foes, with the contest getting under way orr Daley Field at 2:00. The Garnet stickmeri will be looking to even their record at 6-6~ which would represent a respectable season, expecially in the face of numerous injuries. The Garnet have defeated good Engineer squads in each of the past three seasons, including a 13-9 win in the rain last year, but the Garnet will be hard pressed Saturday to extend the streak to four. The RPI laxmen are currently 6-3, sporting victories over Clarkson, Siena, Stevens, Alfred, St. Lawrence, and Colgate. The latter two teams defeated the Dutchmen in overtime, while the Engineers easily disposed of St. Lawrence and squeezed by the Red Raiders in overtime. RPI's losses have come to teams that also took the measure of the Garnet: Hobart, Middlebury, and Cortland. The Trojans sport a strong attack, paced by seniors Joe Quackenbush and Art Lennox. The latter made All-Amer.ican honorable mention last season, while Quackenbush totalled fifty points in RPI's first eight contests. For the Garnet, injmies continue to make the defense vulnera\ble as Don DeMichele is at less than full strength and Kevin Monahan is lost for the season. Pup Gould may return to action, however. The Garnet batsmen will try to regain their winning ways against a 3-9 Engineer team, the first RPI baseball team in twelve years to fmish under .500. On April 29 at RPI, the Dutchmen defeated the Engineers, 5-2, on the strong pitching of Joe Douglas and Bill Neidel. The later will start tomorrow, looking for his fourth win of the season against one loss. Denois McKay, whom the Garnet beat earlier this year, will probably start for the Engineers. Norwich Tops Nine The skidding Garnet baseball team dropped its second straight game of the season on Wednesday, when they were shaded by a tough Norwich squad, 3-2. The Dutchmen now stand at 5-2 on the season. Hitting appears to have become a problem for the Garnet, as the light Union attack could muster only seven hits, not enough to establish a potent offense. This output foUowed on the heels of an even more anemic five-hit total against Clarkson. Starting pitcher Larry DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott Stre.t Open Daily 1 0 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to 1 A.M. Berkley probably wished he had had more support from the Garnet bats, as he gave up thee runs on nine hits, struck out t'Wo and walked the same number in his eight innings of work. Joe Douglas came on in the nin tl1 to finish up the pitching chores. Norwich, on the other hand, Continued on page 5 DEALERS WANTED HOME MAIL ORDER WORK Run new fast $6,08 pulling ad over your name, in any circu I ar or pu blicat ion, keep $5.00 of each $6.00 you receive. We fill orders for . $1.00. Rush $6.00 for samj>le ·. circu Iars and copy of ad. William V. Trowbridge 35 VVoodcrest Avenue Dayton, Ohio 45405 fme sawes out there, He's going to be a good one . \ Leadin,g the scoring and hustlin~ prade for the Gamet ' were ,attacks Doug Duval and Mike Chat·er. Duval bounced off defensemen to score twice, and in adding an assist, did a great job on ground baHs. Chater, play in~ with an injury, picked up three goQals and two assists. The Gamet now stand at S-6, and wi:ll seek to end the season at .500 witen they meet the RPI laxme1a Saturday aftcrno0n over in Tre).'. The Garnet freshmen, on the otherh;and, had little trouble with the Orange fearlings, rolling to an ·.easy 8-1 victory yesterday on G;ari& Field. Dave Block paced the Garnet frosh with four goals in the victory, which upped' the fr0sh's record to 5-2. Middie Bruce Dugan, shooting on the Syracuse goal late in the first half, helped lead an aggressive Garnet lacrosse team in a fine showing Wednesday. The Orangemen won, 14-7, but the :Dutchmen kept the game close against the nationally ranked stickmen. • Photo By George Kaplan Varsity Trackmen Finish Poor Season By HENRY FEIN . \' frosh move to varsity next year, The 19 69 Garnet track season has dr:awn to a close, with the fmal ,(fual meets following the comm.-on pattern: a varsity defeat coupled with an hnpres:;ive freshman victory. The varsity ended with a poor 1-7 slate by falling to Hobart, in the closest loss of the campaign, 74-68. The frosh, concluding an outstanding 5-0 season, crushed Hudson Valley Community, 102-4~. Both squads will wrap up 1969 at the New York Championships tomorrow at Alfred_ A lack of depth and the loss of the ke:y final mile relay cost the Ga_rnet victory in the varsity event. Winners for Union were Art Ri11:cio (the 100 in 10.7), Joe Burgess (the two-mile in W:03. 5), Norm Lasda (the Long Jump at 19'3W'), George G arduer (the shot put at 45'7V1:\) Ed Blechner (the discus ;at 134'2\). Ricoeio Takes Second Ric.cio also took second in the 220, followed by Pete EricsoJl, who likewise finished third Ln t:he 440. Dave Gray won runnec-up honors at 440. John Braham finished third in the 880 and the mile. Terry McManus had another fine <Lay, with a second in the mile, and third-place finishes in the javelin and triple jump. Mario Fischetti took second place in .the 100, the 120 high hurdles, and the 440 intenmediate hurdles. The Garnet won the 440 relay in 45.4 Bill Bush took second in the high jump, while Riccio was third in the long jump and Lasda was second in the Triple jump. Blechner was second in the shot, while Gardner took third in the discus. The frosh simply overwhelmed an inferior HVCC squad, losing only the 440 hurdles, the Pole Vault, and the Javelin. Rick Jaszczak had another superb afternoon, winning the 220 (22.9), the 440 {51.7), anchoring both winning relays, and taking second in the 100. jump ( 40' I W'). Jaszczak. Leads Sweeps Steve Andreski won the 100 in 10.5 with Jaszczak and Bruce Cobb completing a Garnet sweep. Jaszczak let Adreski and Cobb in a sweep of the 220, while Steve Wood took second behind the frosh speedster in the 440. Larry Thornton beat Larry Kenney in the 880, with a time of 2:06. Paul Forbes topped Dave Rice in the mile, winning in 4:40.6. Moeckel Wins Bryant Moeckel beat Forbes in the two mile, clocked in a fme 10:08. Tom Stillings beat Gary Greenlese in the 120 high hurdles, hitting the tape in 16.7 seconds. Chris Widnese took third in the 440 high hurdles, vvhile the 440 relay was clocked in 46.1 for its winning effort. Mike Rich tied for first in the high jump at 5' 10\ and took second in the javelin. Stillings beat Thickens in the shot put, with a toss of 39' 3\ while Steve Hannah took the discus, ------------------------------------------------ D~wn to Lollis', let us go, Led tne lager freely flow. A uni,que place to dine with old European Atmosphere N1CHOLAUS 1 RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. NOW IN OUR Uth V EAR For reservations phone FR 4-8917 Boulevard Bowl 135 ERIE BOULEVARD 40 AMF BOWLING LAN.ES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES with Thickens third. The winning toss was 110' 6\. The mile relay r9unded out the scoring splurge with a fine 3:37.7 clocking. The outstanding job by the frosh this spring cannot be understimated. Expecially in the running events, the yeavlings' performances often -exceeded winning varsity results. When the the result could well be a reversal of this season'~ .J. miserable .J -7 slate. Under the new NCAA rules, next year's frosh, wllo fromearly indications. may be as fine as this year'l, · l.f bunch, will also be able to · · compete in varsity events. \Next year\ may be just around thtt , tJJ corner. Bantams Dump 'N.etmen; , Host Harpur Tomorrow By BRUCE GARBER On Tuesday afternoon, the Garnet netmen were handily defeated, 9-0, by Trinity, who was probably the strongest team on the Garnet's schedule. Of the nine matches played, Ron Wendolowski, Union's fourth singles man, captured the only set for the Dutchmen. The remaining eighteen sets went to the opposition. Wendolowsk.i nearly upset Trinity's Creataro in three sets (6-2, 7-9, 8-6), but was unable to take the third set after winning the second 9-7. Jeff Kurzius and Wendolowski had another chance to put Union on the scoreboard, as they combined against Cretaro and Gibby, but lost in two long sets (16-14, The PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP 262 Saratoga Road MAYFAIR SHOPPING CENTER At the Sign of the Red Neon Pipe TUES. thrv SAT. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. a lao THURS. and Fll.: 7 Jo 9 PM SCOTIA, N. Y. Phone 399a 1630 6-4). Last Saturday, at the l.C.A.C. · match Union placed fourth, witb' · ~ Kurzius and Jeff South playing brilliantly in their early matches,· reaching the doubles semi-finals before they. were finall)f · ~ stopped. The Trinity match knocked the Bensonmen down to a 2-5 record, with the final matcl1 •'l: coming at home tomorrow against Harpur. VACATION FOB TWO $20.00 4 days, J nights at deluxe Hotels Miand Beach or Las Vegas Transportation nothcluded Certificate must be ordered direct from this ad. (ENCLOSE $20.) FREE EXTRAS ORDER EARLY FIVE DA-Y , MONEY BACK GUARANTEE William V. Trowbridge MAIL ORDER 35 WC){)().crest Avenue Dayton, Ohio 45405 FUN WORKING IN EURO·PE • • GUARANTEED JOBS ABROAD! Get paid, travel, meet people, SUMMER and YEAR ROUND. 20 countries, 9 paying job cate- gories offered. For FREE cultural program literature including ,. details and applications, write: ISIS, Admissions, 133 rue Hotel des Monnaies, Brussels 6, Belgium. A No11-Profit Student. Mem- bership Organization. VOL. 9!1 George Fellowshi] Mu There displays, 1 even e~ polysenstL tactile an 1 we've had. and the I and UnioJ be chan:~ boring ance There, weaknessE need to bo( Coord Festival, : but one 1 organize<! take pla~1 and in wh Ryan J the FestiV'\ in the f pre-vious I fiom Old auditoriui Memoria presentin! (highlight< 3,ooo-ru Memorial. Simba.. entertainj before eJ of Afric~ Otis Tuck be rather l.A Nearl).' academic: the Thii Symposit. and Satm:1 With Under U1 In ere a:: symposiu Institute Joseph chair-man History, Clare \ psycholo~ \Does Yc of YoUJ Madden, Stochos, professor Will diSCI Appro Awarenes

1969 ' . ·;; • Founded at Union College 1877 VOL 9!J,'NO. 49 George iWald, seen here in his Harvard classroom will inaugurate the Davidson Fellowships tO>morrow and Thursday ' In Perspective SCHENECTA:DY, N.Y., MAY 20, 1969 PRICE TWENTY CENTS Faculty Strips Degree Credit From ROTC, But Keeps Corps A contingent of about 50 Union students Friday continued an anti-ROTC rally that began Thursday, while simultaneously the college's faculty overwhelmingly passed a recommendation that would strip ROTC of its academic credit but allow it to remain on campus with \the status of mo~e than an extra-curricular activity.\ The recommendation must now be approved by the college's Board of Trustees \which alone has the authority to add or delete programs from the curriculum,\ according to Dr. Haro I d C. Martin, College president. The anti-ROTC demonstrators, meanwhile, who had hoped for complete abolitiol'l of the ROTC program from Union's campus, have called a meeting for 4:30 p.m. Tuesday in front of the Schaffer library to discuss what steps should be taken now. because the ROTC program did not compare favorably with the rest of Union's curriculum. He said ROTC at Union \has been a diversion\ and has helped Union become rnorc and more a technkal·enginccring institution. Six student representatives were allowed to attend the faculty meeting: two who favor ROTC; two who oppose it; and one each from the radio station and newspaper. The students rallying outside the meeting remained peaceful and listened to arguments both for and against ROTC from other students. year, be a season'!~ the xt year's ·Must Weekends Return To Boorishness? The motion passed by the faculty recommends \the continuation of formal recognition for the AFROTC program at Union College and the elimination of degree credit for Air Science courses\ and suggests that the Air Force reevaluate its Air Science courses and explore a plan for transferring the purely military aspects of the program to summer camps. The faculty also voted to remove ROTC ceremonies from commencement exercises. A motion from William M. Murphy, professor of English, \that the Air Force ROTC be abolished at Union College and that no other ROTC program be established in its place\ was defeated, 29-75. One anti-ROTC student, who had attended Thursdais faculty meeting, said in his speech that it had been amusing \to see the faculty members, some with Ph.D's, get up and attempt to articulate their position on ROTC.\ year'i. · ~ able to \Next thtt • (jJ , t • l.C.A.C.' witb' · 'li h playing finall)f. · ~ knocked to a 2-5 a! matcl1 •l: 1;1 wo Hotels ,.: d uded $20.) 1J; (J EARLY Jl TEE ;I ~. ue ~ ·~ J ·~ • \ ~ . • >11 ·~ • • people, cate- .. , .. Hotel Nem- There were exhibitions, recitals, displays, lectures, concerts, plays and even expe,riences (mixed media polysenstLal ones as well, mind you, as tactile and Afro-American ones!) But we've had. the gamut. Art's Festival '69 and the 13l~t.clc Arts Festival are over, and Union weekends may once again be characterized as being barren, boring ancd boorish. There were, to be sure, a number of weaknesses in both festivals that will need to boe corrected in the future. Coordinating a 12-day Arts Festival, for ·e:xample, is no light task, but one must at least be well-enough organizeci to know what evants will take plac:e at what time on what day and in what }()cation . Ryan Drum, himself a weakness of the FestiV\al' that might well be omitted in the futur-e despite this paper's pre-vious rec:ommendation, was shifted fiom Old Chapel to the social sciences auditorium to the Alumni Gym and to Memorial Chapel before finally presenting his polysensual experience {highlighted. by that unforgettable 3 ,000 -rn.jle drive-a-thon) in Nott Memorial. Simba., ,the Black dance troupe, was entertain:iflg to those who had never before e:xp erienced the phenomenon of African d.ancing, but along with Otis Tucker's Fashion Show, proved to be rather amaJeurish for the price one By BRUCE H. HUSTEN suspects these people were paid. An even more fundamental problem with the two festivals become particularly disturbing in light of their unfortunate timing, one beginning as soon as the other was ending. Whether or not this was coincidental is irrelevant, for although unstated, Arts Festival '69 came somehow to connote a 12-day festival of white art which was to be followed shortly thereafter by Black Arts Weekend, a two-day festival of black art. Still, one cannot argue with success. Dan Mead, who with Sandy Swope and Peter Crawford boldly bore the burden of coordinating the Arts Festival, is particularly deserving of plaudits for his courage in organizing it for the second consecutive year and for his success in expanding it into 12 stimulating and exciting days. Steven Cole likewise deserves kudos not just for heading up the organizational staff of Black Arts Weekend, but also for his own recital of Negro spirituals which was unquestionably one of the highlights ofthe festival. Putting aside the subjective questions as to what was good and what was bad about the festivals, one is left with the bare fact that for two straight weekends there was an abundance of things to do on the Union campus, worthwhile and educational things in which a larger proportion of the college than is usual participated and went away not only satisfied, but hungry-for more of the same. To disappoint this zeal and to retrogress to the mass-exodus weekends of the past would be to attach a stigma to Union which at this stage the College simply cannot afford. Murphy emphasized at Thursday's faculty meeting that he was opposed to ROTC on academic gronnds Stewart Udall Memorial Chapel Tonight 1 8 p.m. Ryan: Review Foreign Policy American diplomacy and foreign policy can be improved with a \complete review and restructuring\ of the State and Defense Departments, U.S. Representative William F. Ryan, a New York City Democrat, told a Union audience Sunday. Representative Ryan, a delegate to the 1968 Democratic convention in Chicago where he supported Senator Eugene McCarthy, stressed yesterday the difficulties the nation has been having in the international field. He said that the solution is \not in Congress, which preoccupies itself with a ritualistic denunciation of campus unrest, whose causes it cannot understand, as well as with eulogies to the ABM system.\ \To do what should be done requires a complete review and restructuring of our present Defense and State Departments, whose leaders are all alumni of the University of the Cold War,\ he told his audience at the program sponsored by the college's International Relations Club. \We must organize a new national committee in the Senate and Congress to get the members to say things in which they already believe. This cannot be a timid effort and must be geared at changing the present situation rather than debating among ourselves.\ Representative Ryan, who is serving his fifth term, said the main difficulty with American diplomacy is that it is now out of date and based on assumptions no longer valid. One such assumption, the \domino theory\ is still valid and that \we would be threatened if Vietnam fell to the Communists. \We also assume that China, who , , has troops outside her borders and who :\ lists Russia as her first and worst ~ enemy, is far greater a threat than she is,\ he commented. I.A.. Plans Two Day Symposium Nearly 7 5 industrial managers and academic: ;personnel will take part in the Third Industrial Administration Symposium at Union College, Friday and Satmrday at the College. With ,the theme \Management Under Uncertainty and in the Face of Increasing Complexity,'' the symposium is sponsored by Union's Institute of :Industrial Administration. Joseph Finkelstein, professor and chair-man of the Department of History, will lead the first session. Clare W. Graves, professor of psychology at Union, will discuss \Does Your Management Fit the State of You:r Organization?\ Lyn P. Madden,. executive vice president of Stochos, lt1c., and adjunct associate professor of industrial administration, will discuss \'Managing the System's Appro a·c 11-- Imp I em entation Awareness.:' Martin Lichterman, dean of humanities and social sciences, will lead Friday's second session. Dr. Robert Mlller, a senior IBM engineer and adjunct professor of industrial administration, will discuss \Human Cognitive Task Archtypes and Information Systems.\ Harry Runyan, president of Systems Management Corporation, will discuss \General Systems Theory as a New Paradigm.\ E.W. Eames, president of the Council for International Progress in Management, will be the principal dinner speaker. His topic will be \Major Problems Bothering Managers Around the World.\ James D. Pa.lmer, dean of science and engineering, will lead the first Saturday session. Joel Rosenfield, coating product development manager at General Electric and an adjunct associate professor of industrial administration, will discuss \Technological Forecasting and Long Range Planning.\ Alfred L. Thimm, professor and director of Union's Institute of Industrial Administration, will discuss \General Systems Theory: The New Decision Tool in Management and Economics.\ Th~ final session will be a panel on the presented papers. Dr. Armand Feigenbaum, president of General Systems Company, will moderate. Panel members will be W. Van Allen Clark, chairman of the board of The Sippican Corporation; D.S. Feigenbaum, general manager of the lnternation Systems Company; Joseph Furlong, secretary and treasurer of Central Gas and Electric Company; and Dr. R.V. Kirk, associate professor of management at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. Congressman William Fitts R~an told an IRC gathering in Library Plaza that the U.S. Congress ought to re-ex.mmne the premises of American foreign policy. He spoke Sunday afternoon · Photo by George Kaplan

PAGE2 Prontising 'Tache Tlw faculty dccisiu J:l on ROTC was as predictable as it wa~ lawlal>k. Di~mi~~ing the stnnetiuH'S flamboyant, :-;ouwlimes ('harismati~, sumetin1cs ridiculous activities of till' proiJOill~nts of the extreme positions of, either the c\>mplete abolition m the umeconstructed retention . of ROTC, the approval of tlte Curricular Affairs Commitlce fJH>posals sttccccded in putti11g ROTC in its prop<!r plm~c. We arc glad that RG'fC was not crucified-- however much Hoadley House lookc like a crypt. The position of the student group that sought abolition of ROTC on the question of open faculty meetings was more surprising. 11hey tied a detnand f<n opl'n facuit)' meetings with student participation to their opposition to ROTC. Although. this appeat·ed to he a tadical error at first, the Ad\IH>c Committee f<H Student Apocolypse was successful in getting representatives of the stHdent pucss and radio as well a.s represcn ta lives of both sides of the ROTC question into the faculty meeting. The exclusion of the campus media from faculty (and Faculty Council) meetings has never made any ~ense to us and this paper has sought admittance for its reporters for at least frte last tluce years, but with little sw~ecss. Y d we sensed a differeat current in the arguments t)f till' Ad\hoc Committee for a Student Apocolypse: they seemed to be insisting on full sturlent participation ,in tlw faculty deliberations as a step hwards community government based on large sea.le plenary meetings of students, faculty, and adminiatration. If we have correctly stated the intent of this group, then we would be intrigued to ·sec a full exposition of this point of view. The concept seems promising and we suspect that it would fare well in the market place of idc<!s. Causes, Not Symptoms The tightly reasoned statement concerning the need for a 'Black Floor' that appeared in the last issue of \Concordients\ convi11ces us that the College ought not be concerned with the spector of segregation regarding Union's black and minority group students. The fourth floor of South College is not being redecorated with gun turrets and the very sensible views stated by Messrs. DaCosta and Williams, and by Vie Brown the week before, do not seem inflamatory or likely to lead tG a proliferation of shot-guns and rifles on the campus. Having a high concenb·ation of black students in one living unit would accent symptom of racial antagonism and make them more obvious, but it seems unlikely tl1at it will be a cause of racial hatred. The housing policy of the College seems much less crucial in this regard than the attitudes and beha.vior of tlte people at the Colle~e. Needless Bait The conclusion of the Black Arts Festival brings to a close three weeks of almost ·coll.tinuous high quality entertainment on campus. They have been so successful in fact, that no one seems to have complained that there was only one big party weekend this term, instead of two, as is the usual practice in the sp1·ing. Perhaps one of the reasons that few people have complained is due to the rumors that_ Spring Weekend was a financial fiasco .. We say ~'rumors\' because none of the officials of the student government will disclose to us, for the record, the nature of our losses in this venture. Very reliable sources have told us, though, that Spring Weekend lost oetween $5000 and $6000. The success of the recent arts weekend and the financial disaster of Spring Weekend signals an opportune moment for a critical re-examination of the policy of the student government towards these activities. Party weekend concerts ought to pay for themselves or make a profit -·it seems patently unfair that Smokey Robinson cost every student who did not attend the concert about four dollars, and cost about twelve dollars a couple to those who did go. We are not attacking the principle of the party weekend; no criticism of traditional good-hearted frivolity will appear in these columns. But the expensive concerts should go. Perhaps it used to be necessary to have a big name group as bait when it came time to ask a girl to trek up here for a weelend, hut the co-ed of the late Sixties and Seventies has different interests from those of her older sisters and that kind of bait seems needless. The big-name po.p music concert appears, only as.a bother~ome timeworn anachronism that ought to he peacefully laid to rest. MAY 20, 1969 t> jVIA Y 20, 1~ ~------------------~------------------------------~------~ ' uUI f, J I LETTERS TO THE EDITOR Memory To the Editor: As representatives for many Union students, we, the undersigned, propose that a memorial book fund be established in the name of John M. Bradbury. We believe it fitting fuat Professor Bradbury's name should be continued in this fashion--by and through the books he studied and loved. Scott Siegler ',69 Kenneth Kobland '69 Donald Barrett '69 Bruce ShackletoN. '69 Man-es McCarthy '69 Saul Berkowitz '69 Tribute To the Editor: The majority of students at Union College did not know John Bradbury closely. I cannot say that I did either. Many times, when a member of a community passes from its midst, that same majority reads and hears well-meant words which for the most part, are sincere and heartfelt. Sometimes, however, in our efforts to be kind, we distoct the true image of a man and we lose for him and ourselves that measure of honesty which gives dignity to his passing. I have before me a letter from a Union College student (now studying abroad) who did know John Bradbury. His works, I feel, convey a very deep and honest praise. They say something few of us could read elsewhere. It is for this reason that I felt the college community should share this tribute: \At a time like this, it would be nice to be able to pay the man a large compliment, but I'm afraid he wasn't the best teacher Union has ever seen. But I can say that he loved literature. In fact, for him, teaching just happened to be something he did with a thing he loved. That makes (sometimes) for poor teachers, but unique men. I think that if I had my choice, I would prefer to be a miserable teacher, but love lit·erature as much as Bradbury.\ :J hope that a few of .us would. Sincerely yours, S. Glanzrock '70 Candidate To the Editor: At this time I would like to announce my candidacy for the position of representative- at\large to the All College Council. The purpose .of this letter is twofold. First, I would like to introduce my platform and Felated thoughts to those people whom I have not met. Second, I would like to urge each student to take an interest in this election. According to a few innocent souls, the All College Council is dead. It is not dead. Furthermore, the issues at stake are as important as were parientals. In that light, I ask each student to assert his feelings by voting. First, the method by which students are presently chosed for student-faculty committees is unfair and discriminatory to the student as an indifidual and to the student bod.y as a whole. At present names are submitted to the President by the deans and selected faculty. Bluntly, your chances are slim to join a student-faculty committee unless you personally know the deans or selected faculty. Therefore, a sequence of steps should be set up where an application is filled out. Then, the applicant is interviewed and processed through the Committee on Committees in the Senate or a committee of the ACC itself. In either case, the student will have the opportunity to apply for placement. In turn, the selection \Those who make peaceful revolution impossible make viole11t revolution inevitable.\ Publllh•d Tutldly aftd FHdiY dur· 1n1 tl'\• t~h.col yr•r by thr Sturltl'\1 llody of Un•onCoil•l•· Sc-h•nortady N.Y. Nattontl Adv•\'\\l Rep••· aent atl\lt· Nattonal Educa1aonal Adv .. ,, lllt\tl s~r\'ICf'. Inc .. Colha• Publtahf'tl R•prea•ntall\ e, J60 Lta1nclon Avenyt, N.Y. C. £d•tottaL Ofllct. Old Gym. Unton Coll•l•· Publt<atlon Offtce. Whttt· \\\\' Prtnlln& & Btndtn& Co .. Inc .. H6·•11 Ftfth Ave .. Troy. llS·HSO. [OIIrrtd '\ thr Schtn•cudy Poll Offtet •• Stcond Cl111 lo4od Mctttr. Sub&ctlpllon 20t • <<>PY. $6 • vur deltwtre-d anywh~re an 1h• Unaltd St IIR •• NEILS. KRAMER Editor·in·Chief WI LUAM OUZER CARL GOLDS AND Managing Editor Business Manager -:i'P SENIOR BOARD Paul Andrews, Andrew Crisses, Henry Fein, .Bruce Husten, Alan Mell, Peter Weingold. JUNIOR BOARD Jeff Birn, Uoyd Birns, Jerry l..e¥ine; Jody Saslow, Michael Swirsky, John Schosheim, John Brunswick, Bill Holleran. STAFF Tony Beninati, Bruce Garber, Phil Galdston, Alan Greenfield, George Kaplan, Hank Levine, Steve Levy,. Stu Moss, Gary Prevost, Randy Sutter. committee can nominate members or present a list to the President. The point is that the student should have the opportunity; the positions should be open to the general student body; and, the students should want the position on the committee. Second, in the case of any ad-hoc committee chosen by the President to deal with particular questions of a temporary nature I believe stud.ents should be represented. Earlier in the year a calendar committee was formed hy the President. Despite a pers,onal request to the President, students were not included. In a matter so vital to students as to when school starts, when school ends, and the type of semester system, I believe the students could have added to the committee's report. Third, student-fa,culty committees should make their minutes public knowledge. The Drug Committee or the various Cornp. Ed. committees deal with subjects that are problem areas. Yet, how much is known about the committees' work? If nothing occurs inside these committees, perhaps that is also significant. Also, why don't the Comp. E. committees hold open hearings where some constructive criticism could be directed towards the Comp. Ed. program? Finally, I think it is about time that one candidate stated publicly his recognition of potential problem areas. The admission of women will raise some problems. Should we have a double standard of parientals or should we allow women the right to establish their own parientals? Most defmitely, women should have the same right as we do to set their own parietal hours. The admission of a large number of black students is a second potential problem area. The problem may be as it has been on other campuses the constructive co- ·existence of blacks and whites within a small community such as ours. In conclusion, I would appreciate your support. If you have any comments or criticisms, please call me at 346-9212. Respectfully yours, Richard A. Steinwurtzel Roses Dear Editor: I would like to congratulate the Black Alliance on a culturally fulfllling experience in the various events of the past weekend. I especially enjoyed Steven Cole's concert. With the fertility of spring, the Union flower is budding in a diversity of beautiful colors. Jerry Sternberg Class of '69 Insecure To the Editor: I know of very few Union College students who don't have strong opinions (one way or the other) on Union College's recent black conunitments, so I was puzzled at ftrst when only about twenty per cent of the number of students who saw Smokey Robinson and the Miracles attend the ·Black Alliance- -sponsored \Black Experience\ concert, expecially since the price of admission was only $1.00, and the program promised to be (:lntertaining. The concert gave the Union College student an opportunity to see what black people had to show and say for themselves. After the concert I was not as secure in those opinions about blacks that I had formed from reading the newspapers and discussing black issues with my liberal fraternity •• brothers. Perhaps this explains why so few students attended the \Black Experience'\ concert. Who wants to be insecure? Although my security was threatened, the entertainment was tremendous, the best I've ever seen at Union. Th.ank you, ,ll Black Alliance - for the entertainment. Mark Meisel '69 ~ Pig To the Editor: 9 Is there any other college, besides Union where a man given the title \security head,\ can call up the ma·intenance ~ department and order then to go around campus and rip down the ROTC rally posters--and get away with this without any tJ consequences? And this was not enough for Union's new (but unknown) \fascist pig.\ At last \ Thursday's rally he was asked to go inside and ask permission for all the students to come in. He went inside and said to the •• '· faculty that the students outside wanted to send in two representatives. A downright lie. •• But that is 0 .K. Herr Kleinkauf is the security head. It also appears that no one really cares about his trickery. Byl l&Y RJCHAI London, have .been •Former Vi H. Humphn 9) whenhe crown of \'college .stu pub. Hump $J n s uc c e s candid.ate heckled m1 campaign ll ~. sandwicn didn't havE eatiNg. Th 11 heard of I from a ne \end the \down wit!: .Soj Inscribe< of Fenway ....-and Packer may s e in signific: 14 tommorow fields will importance been madE ..,may well it place theP reaching e sports pla) '\Eton. Tommo1 half a wo As a sernir there is not that much that I can do. But I will refuse to have anything to do with Union until Kleinkauf is » exiled. I urge all seniors to do the same. Hit Union in the pocket book, and your pFOtest 0 might be considered! Writ v 'To C Andrew Maslow '69 Crossroads To the Editor: In recent weeks the Union Community has shown signs of , 1 the possibility of both impending greatness and impending disaster. The Arts Weekend, Black () Arts Festival, and the actions of the Campus Action Committee (now called the Student ~ Apocalypse) have shown the Union man (or at least a few Union men} to be aware of and involved in the problems of fJ Union and the larger community. I hope the recent rumblings by some students about a \Black • dorm\ will not halt Union from awakening out of its 1 75 year conservative sleep. An awake ,, . Union can mean only greatness · a sleeping Union can mean only disaster. Peter J o.shua '71 u Calendar Tuesday, 20th, Convocation, Memorial Chapel, 8 p.m., Stewart Udall t Wednesday, 21st, Davidson Fellow Lecture, Memorial ·Chapel, 8:30 p.m. - George • Wald, · \The Origin of . Death'' Haspanic Society, • Stilliman Hall, 8:15p.m. • Thursday, 22nd, Conservationist Films, s.s. · 16, 7:30p.m. • Friday, 23rd, Recital, Memorial Chapel, 8:30p.m.· • Merianne Pashler, Violin, and Hugh Allen Wilson, Harpsichord • Sunday, 25th, Film Haps, S.S. 16, 7:00 and 9:OOp.m.- \Citizen Kane\ • The 4 representati as of Septer Schenectad' J#ater this w with Sen Officer Correspond' t}, Fein, F Malverne 1 , currently · ._J;oncordif Member of The rept is Vassal #>tep hanie Editorial I MalvemeM Consulta ,n the E Bronner He discussion c J!ear can h( function compri,sin framework 'nfluelfcing social envi Economics .f; . ''l ... Dl~ Enjo~ . Cooked Comforl Opp. 1 01 Open [ • Sundays .------ >ti JAl l \· SPECIAl -, Bri1 Free

0, 1969 tl }VIA Y 20, 1969 .. Humphrey Attacked In Pub •• explains concert. was ain.ment I've you, ,ll the '69 ~ Q college, given can ~ togo the get t, any was not (but At last \ asked to for in. He to the tl' outside two right lie. •• It also cares not that I will to do is » to do in the pFOtest 0 By london School Radicals ._-rJy RJCHARD PATTERSON JR. London, May 12: It must have .been a bit nostalgic for •Former Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey last weekend (May 9) when he became engulfed in a crown of ·shouting, fighting, '*college .students in a London pub. Humphrey, who as :eJnsuc ces sful Democratic candidate for President, was heckled mercilessly during the campaign last year, had ordered ~-sandwich and a pint of ale, but didn't have a chance to begin eating. The students, having ~heard of his anival, came in from a near by pub shouting \end the Vietnl\m war,\ and \down with Humphrey.\ Numbering a bout 50 students from the London School of Economics, they smashed drinking glasses in the pub and also attacked Humphrey's car parked outside. Two television newsmen who had gone to the pub with Humphrey were assaulted as they tried to protect him. He escaped ,unhurt. H urn p hr.ey had been in Lond0n for about two weeks in his capacity as director for the Encyclopedia Britannica. His arrival· received little publicity. He made few public s p e e c h e s and' held only one major news conference, soon after his arrival here. He had no comment on the incident in the pub. The London School of Economics, from which the students came, has been in almost constant turmoil since the sch0~l year began in Octo'ber. A student strike in protes.t of the firing of two junior :lecturers, coupled with faculty u;neasiness over the incide11t, largely stopped the academic !]>rocess at the school for the fi~s.i three weeks of this term (which began April 21 ). Hum ph re y had endeared himself to ndical students here when he stated at :a news conference soon after his arrival that univeysities should expel \irre~ponsible radicals\ who resort to violence on campus. Two days after the incident, the Forme:r Vice-President left London by plane for Washington, Police escorted his car onto ~the runway and up to the plane~s :steps. .Softball Season To Climax Inscribed alongside the names of Fenway and Shea of Yankee .,...and Packer that of Library Field m a y s e em s m a 11 and insignificant. But at 4:30 , 14 tommorow those much trodden fields will take on a new importance. History will have beeu made there. fudeed, we ..,may well intone that what takes place there will have further reaching effect ~than even the sports played on the fields of ·\Eton. Tommorow afternoon, while half a world sleeps and three II men prepare to circle the moon, a team of determined and sldlled players from Davidson House will face an experienced and crafty squad of faculty members in a seven inning game of softball. By special permission of the faculty council their \team will not only be able to score runs but to count them 1l:P at the end of the game. Starting for the faculty will be Richard L. Sing, Director of the NewsBureau,on the mound. As a pitcher Sine has perfected the \LaMont House Curve\ - you can hit it as hard as you can but it will never get off the ground. Filling out the line-up are Richard W. Lucas, Director of Residence Programs, Mr. Thomas ICrshner, Mr. Gordon Bingh.am, ;and anyone else not involved at committee meetings at the time_ The Davidson Team has been called the most radical collection on campus and includes the legendary Jay Blitzman, Skip Mowry anci. 'Paul Andrews. Inspite of the comparative personalities, involved the game will ~ave riO political overtones. PAGE 3 Union students under the flowery 'supervision of Prof. Sharlet putting Rep. Ryan into a conceptual framework at Sunday's meeting. Photo by George Kaplan . Blither Dr. Norman Faramelli, -Professor of Social Ethics at Andover-Newton Theological School and Director of the Boston Industrial Mission, will speak in Davidson Lounge on Tuesday,, May 20th at 7:15p.m. His topic will be \The Problems of Ethics, Race, and Technology.\ Sherry will be served. Dr. Arthur James Dyck, Professor -of Social Ethics at the Harvard Divinity School and member of the Harvard Center for Population Studies, will speak in Davidson Lounge on ~hursday, May 22nd at 7:15 p.m. H1s topic will be \Self-Determination and Population Policy.\ Sherry will be served. Any activity or fraternity interested in being included in this years Union Book should contact Donald Barrett for an appointment. All stud.ents are invited to a reception to be given in Davidson House lounge for George Wald following his convocation address at 8:30 tomorrow night. All Blurbs for th(( Union Book are due from Seniors by May 26. Acme Barber Shop 509 Union Street Experienced Barbers Nearest to Union College Students '69 Writer To Consult Netman Lose Final Match Union signs of , 1 pending Black () of Student ~ own the a few of and blems of fJ larger· a \Black • from 175 year awake \. • only '71 u p.m., George igin of Society, I • . The Concordiensis ~epresentative in Madrid, Spain, as of September, 1969, will be in Schenectady for several days Jllater this week fo1: consultations with Senior Board Liason Officer for Foreign Correspondents To Spain, Henry t}, Fein, Former Editor of the Malverne Mule. Mr. Fein is . currently Sports Editor of ' ._£oncordiensis and Ranking Member ofthe Senior Board. The representative in Madrid IS Vassar Sophmore-to-be :£tephanie Forray, Former Editorial Page Editor of the Malverne Mule. Consultations will take place ,n the Editorial Offices in Bronner House and will include discussion of how reporting next J!ear can best operationalize the functional components comprising the conceptual framew.ork derived. from factors 'nfluelfcing the political and social environment of Spain. Economics will not be discussed. 'IJ ... DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The lrc.wnell Gate on Nott Street Open Daily 10 to I A.M.. • Sundays 5 P.M. to 1 A.M. By BRUCE GARBER The Union Varsity tennis team would up its season with a 5-l loss to Harpur College Saturday, giving the squad an improved, yet still mediocre 2·6 record for this spring. Saturday's doubles matches were cancelled due to a sudden thundershower, but by that time Harpur had already secured its victory by allowing the Garnet only one singles victory. That win was taken by fourth singles ma11, Ron Wendolowski, over Mike Jablon, in three sets (6-3, 3-6, 6-3). Three other matches went three sets each, all of which vtere won by Harpur. Jeff South (6-4, 1-6, 10·8),Alan Meisel (64, 4·6, 6-4), and Len Duckworth. (6-2, 4-6, 6·2) all had :shots at wins, but were unable to .come through with a fmalefforL Althoug.h the team will be hurt by the graduation of seniors Jeff Kurzius, Steve Karp, and Duckworth., next spring looks ZELLMER'S NORGE LAUNDRY AND CLEANitlG VILLAGE AT 1559 VAN VRANKEN AVE, [at liottie Street) DRY ClEANING \NASHERS 8 Lbs. ----------- $2.00 12 Lb.-----:·----- 4lb. Min.-------- 1.00 20 Lb.-·---------- DRYERS 30 Lb. -· ---------- 1 0 Min. ____ - _-- _-- .1 0 OPEN~ MON. TO FRI. 8:00 A.J.A. 1·0 9:00 P.M. SATURDAY 8:00A.M. TO 5 P.M. (CLOSED SUNDAYS) IF YOU HAVE NEV~ HAD NORGE ORY Cl.l!ANING DONE WE CAN BET YOU WILL BE AMAZED .25 .35 .50 Boulevard Bowl 135 ERIE BOULEVARD 40 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours llaily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES .m. . -~~==============~- ~--------------------------------~ S.S. p.m.- and Haps, • • JAY Bl LLIARD LOUNGE 167 JAY ST. SPECIAL RATii6 FOR COLlEGE STUDENTS Br.ing Y.our Dates Free Parking In Rear ~~------------------- LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian • American f'ood I 125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady Dl 6-9744 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cookt~il Bc!lr promising for coach Robert Benson. He will then be able to utilize the freshmen, due to a new NCAA ruling that had previously allowed freshmen to 1 . \ 11\ compete on y m sma ~For three Generations.' Those Who Know .•. Have been ~\ecommending - schools, with less than 1 OOOmen. Benson will also have some of the fme prospects in the class of 1972, who will combine with veterans South, . Wendolowski, Meisel, Jack Liu, and Andy Blumenthal, to secure a highly improved season. HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER ~ 6 31Jnian Graduates in Graubart Family•• 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY Allegheny Airlines helps you beat the waiting game ••• And saves you up 1o S3Y3 o/o. Allegheny's Young Adult Card lets you fly whenever you want to (even nD1l1u avs and still get advance reservations. If you're between 12 and 22, what are you waiting for? Stop by any Allegheny ticket counter and purchase your Young Adult Card. Only $10 for all of 1969. Allegheny Air System We have a lot more going for you

Con cOrdi: Sports PAGE 4 MAY 20; 1969 ,. Nine Tops Engineers, Two Road Games left. Garnet catcher Jim Wilson, lifting a single to left in the first inning. The senior, ordinarily the starting right fielder, filled in well at the backstop position when Brian Gidlow cotdd not make the g~me. The Dutchmen, who topped RPI 3-l here .Saturday, wind up wtth two road games this week. By lULL HOLLERNAN The Garnet baseball team broke a ttwo-game losing streak on Saturday, when the batsmen downed arch-rival RPI to the tune of 3-1. The win, the second over the Engiueers this season, upped the Garnet's record to 6-2. RPl's slate slipped to 3-12. A not her strong pitching performance by righthander Bill Neidel highlighted Saturday's game, as the Garnet team captain, who hurled Ius last game on Alexander Field, went the full nine innings, allowed only one unearned run on seven hits, strllck out two, and passed only one. The victory was the fourth for Neidel this season, against cmly one extra-inning loss. Saturday's game was also marked by another light-hitting effort on the part of the Dutchmen. The Garnet could muster no more than seven base-hits, all of them singles, and at timeS; the Garnet made like the biggest wind macltipe in the Capitol District, fanning thirteen times. First-baseman Mike McGee led the hit parade for the Garnet, connecting for two singles. Lax Falls To RPI, Ends 5-7 By LEN SIMON RPI dominated midfield play in the second half and scored a 9-5 win over Union Saturday in lacrosse. The Garnet closed its rebuilding season at 5-7, while RPI is 7-3 with two games remaining. Union dominated play in the first half, but couldn't dent the Engineer net enough. Bruce Allison's Garnet stickmen controlled the ball for the greater part of the half, and had several man-up opportunities as a result of RPl penalties, but still trailed 3-1 at halftime. After that, RPI controlled the face-offs and loose balls, got the majority of shots, and streaked to an 8-l edge before Union woke up. The Garnet, of course, were not at full strength, as starting defensmcn Kevin Monahan and Pup Gould were out due to injuries, and Don DeMichele, the third defense starter, was playing on an injury. Gould played for short periods of time, but could not sustain action. Also depth worked against the Union cause, as RPI had nearly twice the bench strength of the Garnet. Art LennoK scored first for RPI, with an assist from Joe Quackenbush, after more than 21 scoreless minutes. Jim Sabella, however, fetaliated with a fast break score 34 seconds later to even things up. After three scorless minutes Linksmen Top Siena 1 5-4; Finish Slate With 3-4 Mark By GARY PREVOST The golf team closed a mediocre season Friday with a 5-4 win over Siena at Northway Heights. The linksmen compiled a 34 dual match record, but the season was highlighted by a second-place finish at the Albany State Invitational and a fourth-place effort in the ICAC tourney. The Garnet totalled 337 in the Albany State tourney over the difficult McGregor links in Saratoga, finishing 15 strokes behind pace-setting RPI. Sophomore George Gould paced the Garnet with an 81. At the ICAC championship on the St. Lawrence University course in Canton, the Garnet also totalled 33 7 to finish fourth, RPI again triumphed, with a 332 aggregate, followed by Clarkson (333) and St. Lawrence (336). Junior Doug Vergith scored an 81 on the rain-soaked course to place third in the individual standings. In match-play contests, the linksmen claimed victories over New York Maritime (7-0), Albany State (4-3) and Siena. Losses came at the hands of New Paltz (4-3), RPI (7-2), Middlebury (5-2) and Clarkson (5-2). Sophomore Bob Cummings played as Nutnber One man on the squad, and after a slow start won three ofhis last four singles matches, including a 2 and I verdict over Fa ul Wierzbienice of RPI, the ICAC tourney medalist. Vergith played Number Two, and has a 4-3 match-play mark, plus an instrumental best-ball win in the Siena match. Gould competed in the Number Four spot and won three matches. Rick Critchlow, Ward Blum, Lonnie Palmer, and Bob Harrington competed as members of the starting seven-man lineup. Pete Levine and Steve Feuer completed the links squad. THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS I-lOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeats hom all over .the world. 406 STATE ST. Quackenbush and Bryan Harrison scored two quick goals for RPI, and the half ended with the count 3-1. The only two goals of the third qaarter were scored by Jim Meinhold, with Joe Quackenbush assisting on both. RPI added three more scores to push the count to 8-1 after six minutes of the final stanza. Harrison got the first goal, and Mike Gonzales fol1owed up with two more. Bulova ... to mark a happy occasion MISS LIBERTY \G\- A sparkling diamond distinguishes this 17 jewel beauty. SEA KlllG \EU\ - 17 jewels. Water and shock resistant. luminO<us hands and dial. $50.00 $50.00 No :finer gift to show your pride of accomplishment! See our complete C(}llection today. Jeweler's Name 428 STATE. STREET The Dutchmen wasted RO time in scoring, pushing across the game's opening tally in the last of the first inning, but in doing so the Garnet looked remarkably like the old Chicago Wlilite Sox, the famed .. Hitless Wonders\ OF BASEBALL. After lead-off man Dale Long flied to short center, Left-fielder Mike Solomon. drew a walk, stole second base, went over to third on a wild pitch, and scored on an infield hit by McGee. they face Hobart this afternoon in Geneva and meet the Yellovt jackets of Rochester tomorrovt in the Kodak City. The Gamet will be looking to end the season on two winning notes and finish the season with a good 8;2 mark. The season could have been better, though, as the batsmen dropped two unforeseen upsets to Norwich and Clarkson, and missed' chances at two more victories when their games with Stevens Tech and Kings Point were rained out earlier in the .season. If the Dutchmen had finished at least 10·2, they would have had an ·excellent shot at the NCh\ .Atlantic Coast Playoffs. Ihe teams in that :J>layoff. incidentally, were named :to de. y by the Director of the NCA'l\ <JoUege Division Playoffs., J or.n \Winkin Athletic Director ()f O:>lby College. The teams thtJt will vie for the Eastern Crown are Springfield, 21-5, Upsala. .J'I)-2, Florida Southern, 24-4-2. and Ithaca, 15-3. The Jj>layoWs will be held at Fort EusL5, Virginia, over the Memorial Rt} weekend, and the winner will travel to Springfield, Missm:fh for the national finals starting June 4th. RPI, however, came back to tie the score in the fifth inning. Catcher AI Detesto reached base on an error by Tom Miller, who had trouble coming up with Betesto's bad-hop grounder, and went down to second on pitcher Dennis McKay's sacrifice bunt. Shortstop John Apple moved him over to third on an infield hit, and a wild pitch by Neidel brought in the run. Track Tenth .·fa S.tate M·ee:f; FroshSetNewMedleyMa.rlc ~ Garnet Pull Away The Garnet put three base-hits together in the seventh to score two runs and take the lead for good. Miller led off with a walk, and took second .on a sacrifice bunt by center-fielder Mike Solomon. Pitcher Neidel then lashed a single to center, which scored Miller, and Dale Long followed with a base-hit that moved Neidel over to third. An infield hit by the Garnet'& other Mike Solomon, a chopper over the middle which the charging shortstop could not handle, scored Neidel to put the Dutchmen in the driver's seat. The Garnet will wind up both their own slate and Union's 1968-69 varsity schedule, when By HENRY FEIN The varsity track team, with only a limited squad competing, finished tenth at the New York State Championships, held Saturday at Alfred. The Garnet frosh concluded an outstanding season in truly spectacular form, as the yearlings set a new state record in the medley relay. No Union tracksters were able to win their events, but seniors George Gardner and Ed Blechner placed in the weight events. Gardner took second in the shot, while Blechner.fmished fourth. in the discus. Junior Pete Ericson landed a fifth in the 220-yard dash. Once again, as has been the case all year, the freshmen were simply overwhelming, as the frosh foursome of Steve Wood Steve Andreski, Bruce Cobb, and UPTIGHT?? Rick J aszczak simply \'tore up'' the track. With legs of 44-0, 22~. 220, and a closing 880, tne Union frosh were clocked in an outstanding 3 :31.9, almost four seconds under the previoll;> record of 3:35.6 held by SUNY at Buffalo, which was set three years ago. VROOMAN'S Beer - Grocieries Cofd Cvts Magazines - Postr>' 200 Nett Terrace Schenectady, N.Y. 12307 FR 7-9834 ,, If I Graduating seniors, are you \up tight\ over the frustration\s involved in seeking the right career opportunity? Relax! Our professional consultants will welcome the chance to help you eliminate these frustration's through expert counselling and advice. Our staffs are now interviewing June grads, (any degree) for local and nationwide positions in all job catagories. 1. Free career consultation! 2. Free resume serviceJ 3. Many fee paid positions! 4. Immediate company interviews arra11gEd' I ·where you make all the final decisi<>-ns:\ To arrange for a perS()nal interview contact: Joe Steele, Manager in Schenectady 434 State St. Tel: 372-5441 Dave Sc()'tt,. f\flanager in Alban\: 1 00 State St. Tel: 434-5121 Other Ethan Allen ()ffices: Boston, Binghamton, Utic~, fl()ughkeepsie, Fargo, No. Dakota ......... . Ethan A.llen Personnel Placement, Inc. (A!Jency) \Where professionalism is more than just a V\lord!\ • •• • t VOL. 98 firs prig~ A me~ .f. Dr. G1 University tThe Origil the first D: dissertati' ~elf-propog hydra to th In his se Or. Wald pessimistic meaningful '\oma, the r· the germ p transferred carried on ·t;reating an D Part of [ fhe natun exhibited b he classifie: .iirst was n in attempti as exhibite' the male's Revoured t act ofcopu The sec' ·tct of elirr in the cas Norweigen creature rei M starvatio of areas tc exhaustion, ind drowni Man • The ilh becomes s when it is !he animal weaker ar doom. Dr. ~ociety de sending its running\ i1 ~efense. Tl of natural! Wald con

• 1969 ,,. ' Founded at Union College 1877 VOL. 98, NO. 50 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., MAY 23, 1969 PRICE TWENTY CENTS the NCh\ at 1\)layoff. •to de. y the NCA' J or.n ( J[ teams thtJt tern Crown Upsala. 24-4-2. he 11>layoWs Eust .>. Rty will Missm:fh starting first Davidson Fellow Attacks Militarization of American Society . I tJ \'tore up'' 44-0, 22~. 880, tfie in an almost four previo~;1 by SUNY set three '5 as try 12307 the e to ide If • •• • No. prigins of Death: Ameba to Man Dr. George Wald of Harvard University spoke Wednesday night on tThe Origins of Death\ as recipient of the first Davidson Fellow Award. His dissertation ranged from the ~elf.propogating immortal ameba and hydra to the mortal human. In his search for a meaning to death Or. Wald said that contrary to the pessimistic human belief, man has a meaningful immortality. Through the ~oma, the physical body is discarded, 1 the germ plasm, the genetic material is transferred to the offspring, and carried on by future generations thus ·t;reating an immortality for man. Drive to Destruction Part of Dr. Wald's lecture. dealt with (he natural drive to destruction exhibited by many animals and which he classified into two categories. The .iirst was the drive toward destruction in attempting to gratify sexual wishes as exhibited by the preying mantis in the male's lack of concern for being fievoured by the female while in the act of copulation. The second drive was the natural ·tct of eliminating excess populations in the case of food shortages. The Norweigen lemming, a small weasellike creature represents this drive. In cases· ~f starvation this animal runs in search of areas to colonize until he dies of exhaustion, often arriving at the sea ~nd drowning in his struggle. Man Contrary to Nature • The illustration of the lemming becomes significant to our society when it is observed that throughout !he animal kingdom it is the older weaker animal that runs until its doom. Dr. Wald stated that the human ~ociety denies this natural law by sending its healthiest young on \the running\ in society's so called wars of tiefense. The draft, and the perversion of natural law which it symbolizes, Dr. Wald concluded is affront to the ~ystem from which man has evolved. S.chaffers' Gift Endows .ProgTam The Davidson Fellows Fun4 is a program established last December to bring to Union College distinguished men and women in fields related to undergraduate study. The program was established in memory of former Union President Carter Davidson and is financed through a $1 OO;OGO gift from Trustee and Mrs. Henry Schaffer. The program seeks to bring visitors to campus for stays of three days to two weeks during which they will give at least one public lecture in addition to several small group sessions and individual conferences with selected students. ••You say you want to get out of Vietnam but you don't know how to do it. I'll tell you how to get out· in ships!\ The · visitors in the Davidson Fellows program may be chosen from any area of public life but most will be persons of eminence in public affairs, letters or the arts. Tells Crowd of Four-Point Plan The program inaugurated th.is week by George Wald will sponsor up to three visitors a year. The next Davidson Fellow has not yet been chosen. In a speech yesterday that seemed to hypnotize the more-than-1000 listeners, Dr. George Wald, Higging professor of Biology at Harvard University and the first Davidson Fellow at Union, made a public address to the U.S. Congress in which he warned that \we're threatened with a revolution, but from the right, not from the left.\ Dr. Wald in his appeal to .Congress put forth a four-point program which he believes capable of saving America if it is immediately implemented. \First he expounded on his program, \stop the Vietnam War and stop it now.\ Second, stop the draft and stop it now. Third, reduce the size of the armed forces from three and a half million men in uniform to, at the most, one million men in uniform. Fourth, cut that defense budget by something that really matters (Dr. Wald suggested a $30 billion cut) and have that money turned over to our real problems: restructuring our cities, public transportation, housing, schools, the blacks, good food, and clear air and water. \All those who love Artlefica,\ Dr. By BRUCE HUSTEN Wald continued, \l1ave now to come to its support. One has to save America now if America is to be saved at all. You Congressmen and Senators can do it if only you have a mind to.\ \People say you're on the side of the angels. You say you want to get out of Vietnam but you don't know how to do it. I'll tell you how to get our--in .Ships!\ The: • draft system and Wald's predicti<;ins of an impending revolution from the right came under heaviest attack in his comments to the Union students themselves. \The draft has no place in America,\ he said. \Don't worry. about trying to go fix up the draft system. Just get rid of it!\ Dr. Wald related two recent incident~. with his students at Harvard in connection with his attack on the draft. \It's getting difficult to teach at Harvard,\ he said. \A student came up and said to me, 'You're a pretty good teacher but of a dying breed. The trouble is you'.re always telling us what you think and what you know, but we want to find out what we think and what we know.' So I told him, 'Go away.j)o it. Find out what you think and what you know.' But he said, 'I can't go away. The draft is after me.\' \We have wondered what to do about the students who have tried to close down Harvard,\ Dr. Wald continued. \And we have thought that maybe we should expel them. But we can't because General Hershey is watching and that's just the kids he's after. And our Harvard faculty, right or left, couldn't bear to read that the kid we tossed out was killed in Vietnam. We can't toss them out--not to the lions, not to General Hershey.\ \So if Congress is interested in campus disorders,\ he concluded, \let them do away with the draft.\ On his prediction of an impending revolution from the right, Dr. Wald said, \we're not anywhere near the dimmest possibility of a revolution of the left. But from the right it could happen tomorrow. And it won't call itself fascism; it will call itself 'law and order!.\ Te support his attack, Dr. Wald cited a number of incidents in which leftist organizations have been infiltrated with trouble shooters planted by the right who in reality are causing much, if not most, of the trouble. Dr. Wald also charged the Harvard administration with unnecessarily calling in police following the recent student demonstrations. \When law and order moves in nowadays,\ he said, \people end up in the hospital.\ Continued on page 2 Dr. Davidson was President of Union from 1946 to 1964. Dllring his tenure he saw the enrollment rise from 800 to 1 ,200 students and the endowment increase five-fold. \ ... and it won't call itself fascism; it will call i~self law and order.\ W ald Address Draws Nation-Wide Coverage By STEVE LEVY George Wa.ld, inaugurator of the Davidson Fellowship, received national press and television coverage of his speech yesterday afternoon. Covering Wald's talk on \The Student in the World Today\ was CBS News, The New York Times Magazine, and Look Magazine. Wald's address on Library Field was his last stop in a speaking tour and was intended as a summary of his thoughts as well as the statement of new ideas, said Bernard Carmen, director of public relations, who has contacted CBS and the Times earlier this month. Carmen's office filed a story on Wald with the wire services in addition to flling a full story with The Times and supplying it with a complete tape ofWald's afternoon speech. CBS Coverage CBS had originally planned to show the Wald story on their evening network news broadcast, however, due to the length of Wald 's speech it was to be shown on the CBS network news -- this morning at 8 a.m. The broadcast. is not carried in the Schenectady area. Carmen said CBS had a reporter, a camerman, and a unit man present, and that they edited the newscast as they went. The team from Look Magazine cl>lnsisted of a photographer and writer, who are working on an article on Wald to appear in the August issue of the magazine. The Look team was present for Wald's entire visit to Union College and the writer had met with Wald earlier in the week at Cambridge . Speech Video Taped Carmen said that he had no idea what the N.Y. Times Magazine planned to do other than an article on Wald or when such would appear. He said that it was the policy of his office to assist but not quiz outside groups covering events at Union. The afternoon speech by Wald was videotaped in entirety by Mr. · Bittleman's fllm workshop group, and covered by local television and press. '·

MAY 23, 1969 \ t The Concluding Pe.rSpective On Student Protest LE' Note: This represents the final article in this series. Mr. Ziegler will write one more piece concerning itself with the educational and political posture of the College. Herbert Marcuse has been a big influence on young radicals. His analysis is that America is a s e I f - regulating non· revolu- tionary, comumer society that can only be radically changed by working from outside the system and destroying institutions as they now exist. This analysis has been ch:1tched by the radicals, who have found it to be true to their own frustrating experiences trying to bring about change from within existing institutions. However, S.D.S. has carried Marcuse one step past Marcuse by trying to destroy the university, and in the long run this may be the greatest blunder of the radical movement. (We must remember the distinction made last article between those who use radical tactics to better the university, and those who feel that the university as it now exists is incapable of bettering itself. I am referring to the latter). While Columbia University was paralyzed by the strike last spring, a new institution, the Liberation School, was organized to fit S.O.S.'s image of what the university should be and S.O.S. would like this to be the permanent situation. However, Marcuse feels that his analysis of institutions is applicable to every American institution except one, the university. In the university, radical action, no matter how justified, should not be pressed to the point of destruction. Referring to Columbia last spring, Marcuse revealed himself \as a fink\ and said, \'I have never advocated or supported destroying the established universities and building new anti-institutions instead.\ Marcuse feels that universities are perhaps the only places where you can get what you want without destroying the institution. I believe that the radical movement is extremely inchoate. Radicals have been letting their rhetoric get ahead of political reality, but it is likely that if they ever become a serious threat to the govermnent that massive repression will result. (Twenty out of the original twenty-one Viet Cong leaders are dead.) If the university is destroyed in the process, there will be no place for them to retreat. And it is unlikely that they will be able to destroy the university anyway. In California, the government and administrations are trying to remove the radicals from the university. The university, with all its faults, provides a relatively unrepressive atmosphere for people to develop political consciousness. \Free Universities\ within the university atmosphere are possible, and, with a Jot of agitation and hard work, the university itself can be reformed. After all, the university has allowed a Marcuse to develop, even if they can~t take credit for him. Noam Chomsky chided the radicals at Columbia by saying, \You'd rather Karl Marx had burned the British Museum down then worked on Das Kapital in it.\ By concentrating on the microcosm, (the university), S.O.S. is not sufficiently confronting the issue of how to achieve real change in the macrocosm, the society. American society will only change with a sweeping change of attitudes, and this will take a long time. Revolution, in sense of an armed take over of the government, is virtl:lally impossible. I will not go into the numerous arguments about why we are in a non-revolutionary society, but one salient point is that if we ever reached a chaotic revolutionary situation in this country, I think that most people in America would opt for a right wing repressive government that would festore stability through lots more law and order than even Mayor Daley has shown us. This endless talk of revolution and violence seems not only unrealistic, but even counter productive because of the reaction it produces-in the wror:~g people. The Wallace movement is incredibly important to the radicals. This is the working class. And they hate two groups. First, they are disatisfied with our mammoth, beurocratic government that is unresponsive to their needs. And second, they hate the sight, smell, and sound of radicals, hippies, and blacks. The situation as it exists now is intolerable: The youth facing off against the lower middle class, while the corporations and generals sit back and destroy. Even cops are working class. One problem is that workers have been inundated with the myth of consumption, and the goal of the factory worker in America is not to displace the boss, but to make enough money to buy the same kind of car. Concerned radicals should go out and talk to every single person who voted for Wallace, and find out why they opted for the right instead of the left. And then figure out a way to get the message across to these people that the left can better meet their needs. These people have so little, and they get uptight that the blacks and hippies are going to come and take away what little they have. They have to learn that it's not welfare that eats up all their tax money, it's the defense department. And that one of the reasons that they're always out of money is because products are simply not built to last. Robert Kennedy was one of the few politicians who spoke both to the needs of the poor and the lower middle class. It's no surprise that many people who supported Kennedy for President switched to Wallace after Kennedy was killed. Radicals and liberals disagree on the fundamental. causes of problems, but there are some issues on which radicals and liberals shol:lld work very closely. One is the whole area of conservation and preservation of the human species. Alliances could also be created with true conservatives. Our waters are polluted, our air is polluted, and ecologists predict widespread famine within 50 years. These are enormous issues, but not nearly enough attention is being given to them. And not enough attention wilL be given to them as long as people are so hung up on revolution. The point is that radicals have to carve out a base of operations from which they can politicize and work with others. By restructuring and reforming the university, we should recognize that we are aiding and not curing, but at least it's an aid. S.D.S. wants a free university in a free society, and feels that you can't have one without the other. I don't think we should ignore helpful change of the part, just because at the time we are unable to make total change of the whole. The basic question is whether you believe in \the revolution\ or not. S.D.S.'s policy is such that it will only reap rewards when the revolution comes. From a revolutionary stance, Election Results Results of All-College Council elections, held last night: Richard Steinwurtzel-- 324 C. Scott Bowen -· 307 John M. Brown -- 274 Gerald Hyman ·- 184 Traditional Natural Shoulder Clothing Jos. Nusbaum, Inc. 447-451 State Street Our 6lst Year in D\wntown Schenectady reform cam10t be accepted, and too often, radicals refuse to compromise and yet lack the power to consummate their revolution. But the radicals also shake things up when no-one else will, and then the liberals step in and make some changes. How much of the reform of the Democratic Party (that hopefully will occur) will be the result of Tom Heyden and the rest of the conspiracy, although the last place you'd find Hayden would be at a reform committee for the Demo era tic Party. How responsible is Mark Rudd for the abolishment of ROTC at Columbia? that if you put Abbie Hoffman, Al Lowenstein, Mark Rudd, Eldridge Cleaver, and Ralph Abernathy ,in one room, they'd probably sper~d the whole night biting each 0thers' heads off. Some Postscripts I have talked rather loosely abottt S.D.S. It is a very diversified organization, but when I have spoken of it I have referred to the consensus that c ames out of its national resolutions. lt should be noted that the group in S.D.S. that most wants to destroy the university has been the Maost oriented Progressive Labor Party wing. This series has dealt with the white movement, but I would like to make one .point about the black movement in its relation to the white. Blacks are • interested in using the university to their own ends and use demands for the purpose of winning them, no,t for - radicilization. Therefore, there is a .lot of tension between the white and black radicals, especially when the blacks t'hink • that the whites are cashing in on their movement and messing up their demands. This happened at • Columbia this spring. S.D.S. had no real pt·ogram to relate to whites and concentrated on bfa,ck and Puerto, Rican • demands, although the blacks felt they could handle the situation on their own. • Maybe there's a strange dynamic at work that will allow things to balance out and changes to be made. But I wouldn't want to count on it. It seems to me to be a pitiful waste Jaffe Sets Arts Pr.ize J. f consist of a certificate aad gold medal. APARTMENT FOR RENT Summer - Stockade !~:~formation: 346-3954 William B. Jaffe, a New York lawyer and trustee has established an art award at the College, to be presented each spring at the annual Prize Day ·ceremonies. He also recently established the Jaffe Arts Lecture Series, which was begun this spring. Dr. George Heard Haimilton, artist and director of the Sterling and Francine ClaFk Art Institute at Williamstown, Mass., was the first Jaffe lecturer. The Jaffe lecture was the first event in Union's successful Arts Festival. The award will be presented • for exceptional achievement in the major program of art, an achievement marked by excellence in the study of art • history, by demonstrated skill and independent scholarship, and by sustained interest in the - opportunities and interests of art at Union College. 6 rooms; accommodate 3 Cheap The Jaffe Art Award will A 1926 graduate of Union, Jaffe has been interested in the • development of art and art appreciation at the College. Learning how to save money with Savings Bank Life Insurance will cost you ... exactly6¢ Here's what your 6¢ investment will bring. 1. A detailed proposal for your age on SBLI's most popular lifetime policy- Straight Life. Your proposal will show rates; cash and loan values; dividends as earned; net costs and the various options that will be available when you retire. 2. SBLI's new Buyer's Guide to Savings Bank Life Insurance ... packed with tips on how to save money on your life insurance. It explains in simple language all the popular SBLI plans and benefits. It also includes sample rates and cash values. 3. An application form and instructions for its completion, should you decide to buy your life insurance by mail. Honestly now, isn't that worth a 6<' stamp? If you would rather ... visit our life insurance department and pick up this material. There is no obligation and you will save 6<'. .--------------MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY -------------\1 Please send me information on how to save money with low-cost Savings Bank Life Insurance. I understand I am under no obligation and no one from the bank will visit me. Name _____________________________________________________ __ Address __________________________________ _,.. ______________ _ State ________________________ city ___________ zip ______ _ Date of Birth ___________________________ Phone _________________ _ THE SCHENECTADY SAVINGS BANK 500 STATE STREET SCHENECTADY 1 NEW YORK 12301 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I • I PHONE: 372-5411 11 C 11 I I L----------------~----------·------~--- • • • • • • ... • • • ' • II • e • I) ~ 1 To th(v-~di The rec t the facult~ has impn t cogent faculty' themselves individuals the facult student 01 the facult t open meet Perhaps in the na1 edl!lcatiom divided kn called c lectures. courses, write the ( mark on certifies something r completed require1 considered l a degree. ( It seer conceptio1 group is organizat and effici> • educatio depart professors ' seduced i system as idea of ej 1 that car • efficiently thus pr campuses. the entir knowledg( ' sys tern~ attractive. or any otl It anyone a education gotten by ., • --~ r Vl P\Oblooh~d ln1 thf' 11 Body of U N.Y. Nat lf'ntetl'-'f'· Advrrtiait c Pub I ron•• L··\\IIO\ ' ~ WILU Mam .• Paul ' Alan M Jeff Swirsk . Ton Greenf Moss,<

MAY 23, 1969 t ·h • LETTERS TO THE EDITOR College To, ~Honor J. B. McMorran Wi;th Ho,no:rary Doctorate of Law the relation are • use of for t: there is the i. ' ,. i think · ng in on ssing up at \ had · to on Rican • blacks the • gold • in art, an ed by of art 11 skill in the - of art Union, d in the • art ge. • • • • • • ... • • • • --\1 c t t ROTC To th(v .iditor; The recent effort to influence the faculty's decision on ROTC has impressed upon me one cogent point; namely, the faculty's conception of themselves as an elite group. As individuals, very few members of the faculty are unreceptive to student opinion, yet, as a group the faculty c0ntinues to deny open meetings. Perhaps .part of the reas0n lies in the nature of the American edtJcational system, which has divided knowledge into segments called courses, exmns, and c lectures. Students choose the courses, attend the lect1:1res, write the exams, and receive a ( mark on their transcript that certifies they have learned something. After they have t completed a specified set of requirements, they are considered educated and receive l a degree. It seems that the faculty's conception of itself as an elite 1 group is influenced by the organization, professionalism, and efficiency of the American 1 educational system. Deans, department chairmen, professors, and students alike are ' seduced into thinking of the system as being education. The idea of education as something 1 that can be systematically, efficiently, and attractively given thus prevails on college • campuses. How can it be, when the entire scope of human knowledge is not particularly ' sys tem~tic, efficient, or attractive. The faculty at Union or any other college cannot give It anyone an education. No, an education is something that is gotten by long hours of reading, tlti11king, and arguing with those w.ho are also engaged in gettin:g an'educatiofl. ;J say that it is time for the Union College faculty to unmask education for what it really is and to let everyone in the college community participate in its meetings. I am hesitant to pr-opose any regulations to limit participation for it seems tha·t if, by chance, to mar.1y people become involved in getting an education, it will be a healthy clevelopment and nGt one to fear. First of all, however, the fa.culty must admit by openif\g its meetings to the college community that it does not have a monopoly on the body of hUinan knowledge. Sincerely yours, Ray Ahearn '71 UNION'S BOOK? To the Editor: ;J have been told that a majority of the work done in putting together the ex- Garnet, now called Union Book, is done during the summer months. In t!Us light I wish to express an opinion that if held for a later date will de finitely pass unheeded. Regarding the Union College yearbook for 1968, I m-ust say that I was very di'Sappointed in that it was not representative of our educational institution and the people who attend it. I know I am not alone in highly commending the Union Book staff and contributing photographers for portraying a meaningful slice of life in our tiine which transcends a specific place in America. However, I W<Juld like to suggest that next year the Union Book people se::tiously consider publishing a similar social commentary as an additional volume to a Union Cdlege Year book. I know that • \Those who make peaceful revolutioH imp()ssible make violent revolutioH inevitable.\ • ' P\Obli oh~cl Tuucloy and Fr~cloy clur· ln1 th• ochoo 1 y ur by tho St udor\1 Body ol Unton Coll•1• Schontctady N.Y. Nottonol Advtrllttna Rrprr- lf'ntetl'-'f'· Nataonal Educelaon•l Advrrlioiftl Srrvtcl!, In<., Coll•l• Publrohofl JhprootnrotB e. Jt>l) L•·••\lton Avl'nul'. N.Y. C. Ed •I<Wtll Olll<R. Old C ym, Unt on Co 11•1•· Publtc Olton Olftce. Wtutt· hurl! Pr~nttnl a. Btnd•nl Co .. Inc. 416·411. Fifth .t.••·· Troy. 2JS·USO. En trrrd '\ til• Sch•etctody Pool OfftC• •• Socond Cia., M••l Motter. Sut:ucr~p!l.on 20t • copy, S6 a year d•l IY•rtcl •nywh••• tft the Un•t•d Stalt •· NEILS. KRAMER Editor· in-Chief WILUAM OUZER Managing Editor CARL COLDSAND Business Manager I I I I I I I I • t SENIOR B()ARD --- Paul Andrews, Andrew Crisses, Henry Fein 1 Bruce Husten, Alan Mell, Peter Weingold. JUNIOR EOA.RD Jeff Birn, Uoyd Birns, Jerry Levine, Jody Saslow, Michael Swirsky, John SchGsheirn, John Brunswick, Bill Holleran. STAFF Tony Beninati, Bruce Garber, Phil Galdston, Alan Greenfield, George Kaplan, Hanl< Levine, Steve Levy,. Stu Moss, Gary Prevost, Randy Sutter. in today's avant-garde society yembooks with pictures of stude11t senators, basketball, football and soccer players, delaters, gatesmen, lacrosse p 1 ayers, fraternity men, independents, choral group members, big week-end activities etc., may seem \corny\, bu,t personallY when I reach for the dust covered Union Book that has been tucked away on some shelf 20 years hence, I want to open it and see pictmes of people, groups and places I knew and enjoyed while here at Union. To me these things will have a longer and more intrinsic value than a close-up shot of some victorian house I've never seen or a downtown Troy te11ement with dingy undergarments dangling from a clothes line. Thank you for allowing me to air my humble opinion. Most respectfully yours Pete Palen · 1970 J. Burch McMorran, Ne\v Ycirk State commissioner of transportation, will be presented an honorary Doctor of Laws d·egree at the colJrege's commencement exercises June 14. The Hor.1. Charles E. Goodell, junior U.S. Senator from New York, will be the principal commencement speaker. A native of Fine, St. Lawrence County, McMorran began his employment with the State Department of Public Works on a parttime basis in 1917 while still in high sch0ol. After obtaining his degree in civil engineering from the college of Applied Science at Syracuse University, in 1922, he became a fuUtirne employee of the state and began his steady rise as a career engineer, holding at ()ne time or another virtually every engineering title in the department. . ' In November 1948 he was named chief engineer in the department's main office im Albany. When the State Thruway Authority was CFeated in 1950 he took on additional duties as its chief engineer. Early ill 1954 he resig11ed his Public Works and Thruway positions to become chief engineer for the State Power Authority. In his five years at that position, he helped plan and construct two of the largest engineering projects in the hemisphere, the St. Lawrence and Niagara River power projects. Gov. Rockefeller appointed McMorran to the post of Supefintendent of Public Works in 1959. McMorran is a member of the Water Resources Commission, State Civil Defense Commission, International .St. :Lawrence Board of Control, Buffalo and Fort Erie Public Bridge Authority, Governor's CommiHee 011 Indian Affairs, Governor's CommHtee on Traffic Safety, Temporary State Commission on the Capital City, Temporary State Commission on Protection and Preservation of the Atlantic Shorefront, T r i. State Transportation Cornmission, af!d the Governor's Building Space Commit tee. He also constitutes the Interstate Bridge Commission in New York State. The State Department of Transportation, which became operational Sept. I. 196 7, under McMorran; coNsolidated all transportation planning and development in the state; strengthened working relation.ships in transportation matters between the state and local governments, andthe r.1ew U.S. Department of Transportation, and absorbed the functions and personnel of several state agencies. BLITHER McMorran has been honored by many state and national groups, including the annual award of the American Road Builders Association for \significant contribution to the progress of the national highway program.\ He is a· trustee of Russell Sage College, Troy. Anyone interested in helping to build a log cabin in Ontario in early July? Please contact Jocelyn Harvey, English Department evenings. or 489-18 78 Any activity or fraternity CoUege Receives foundation Grant The Kresge Foundation of Detroit, Mich., has given $40,000 to Union College toward the purchase of X-ray diffraction equipment, President Harold C. Martin has announced. The equipment will be installed in Union's new $6.3 million Science-Engineering Center, now under construction. Dr. Martin noted that the new X-ray diffraction equipment will complement existing equipment and will make a substantial contribution to undergraduate education in ·physics, chemistry, biology. and mechanical and electrical engineering. The equipment will also expand the capability for faculty research in solid state physics, experimental stress analysis, organic and analytical chemistry. viral micro biology, and behavior of materials, Dr. Martin added. The equipment is expected to be installed in the new Center by next summer. Views of W aid • • He said there can't be a revolution from the left because there's no leftist organization strong enough to pull one off. He added that what America needs is a \bloodless revolution\ to carry out reconstruction. He said we attribute all our problems to the communists and the SDS and added, \But which communists? The Chinese? The Russians? Yugoslavians? Czechoslovakians? Cubans? And the SDS is only a small segment of student bodies that is, anyway, at terrible odds with itself.\ Also attacked by Dr. Wald were the Vietnam war and the American political party system. He called the war \the most shameful episode in American history\ and added that ''with everyday that passes it grows more shameful.\ Referring to America's seziure of \Hamburger Hill\ in Vietnam, he said \it was not the hill that mattered. It was our kill ~hone 372-0528 PARK PIZZERIA Italian Grinders Our Specialty Behind Davidson Hoi I - One Block from the Campus 25 Park Place Schenectady, N.Y. ratio that was important to the military.\ The American party system came under fire for \the deep splits that divide the parties.\ Dr. Wald suggested that two new parties be formed, one consisting of the liberal Republicans and democrats and the other consisting of the \right-wing Republicans and reactionary southern Democrats.\ He suggested the liberal party BOOKS Text~ Tech- & Art Drafting Equip. Soc & Comm Stat. UNION BOOK CO. 237-241 STATE ST. 393-2141 The PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP 262 Saratoga Road MAYFAIR SHOPPING CENTER At the Sign of the Red Neon Pipe TUES. thN SAT. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. oho THURS. and Fll;: 7 Jo 9 PM lCOnA, N.Y. Phone 399-1630 • interested in being included in this years Union Book should contact Donald Barrett for an appointment. There will be a meeting of all people interested in working on the Paper Highway next year, this coming Monday, May 26, in room 154 Davidson, at 8 o'clock. Especially urged to attend are those interested in working as full-time staff, but guys who would just like to contribute and or just like to see what the whole schtick is about are also sincerely welcom. All Blurbs for the Union Book are due from Seniors by May 26. • Continued from Page One might call itself the 'New American Party\ while the conservative party might be labelled the \Neandertlal party.\ One Union student typified the general reaction to Dr. Wald's talk when in a brief question and answer period he urged the speaker to run for political office himself and carry out his program for America's reconstruction . Down fo Lours'; let us go, L~;:t th~ lager freely flow. Spring Term Linebacker As most of the course evaluation for this term will be conducted in classes during the last week of the term. Each faculty member will receive an envelope containing enough mark sense cards for his or her courses. Copies of the questionaire will be distributed .also. All students should bring a soft lead pencil to class to fill out the answer cards. Any students interested in working on any phase of the evaluation please call DickDaniel at 374·4365 or send a note to Box 987 thru campus mail. Since the evaluation material will be distributed according to the master section roster, all faculty members who have changed their meeting rooms are asked to contack Dick Daniel. Now's The Time To MARRY ME Spring catches a young man's fancy Buy your Wedding Ring at Maurice Graubart & Sons Jewelers, 166 Jay St. Serving Union for 3 generations. A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1 895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. NOW IN OUR 14th YEAR For reservations phone FR 4·8917 Boulevard Bowl 135 ERIE BOULEVARD 40 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES

Concordy Sports PAGE 4 IVIAY 23, 1969 Nine Falls To Yellowjackets, 4·1 Wi\If~;d Ketz In Review: The light-hitting Garnet baseball team bit the dust for the third time in four starts on Wednesday, as the batsmen bowed to the Rochester Yellow jackets by a 4-1 score. The loss, the first for the Dutchmen this season by more than one run, dropped Union's record to 6-3, and upped Rochester's slate to 10-12. By BILL HOLLERAN was predicted to give the Garnet some trouble, has defmitely becom~ a serious problem for Art Lawrence's ballplayers. In their last four games the Garnet have been able to swat only twenty-three base-hits, few of which have been for extra bases, and in their last two starts the Dutchmen have whiffed twenty-seven times. rescheduled to give the Garnet a ten-game slate after Tuesday's game at Hobar.t was washed out. Joe Douglas, lo<~king for his second win of the season·, started for the Garnet. Tenure As Athletic Head The pitching sensation in Wednesday's game was not Garnet starter Bill Neidel, as is usually the case, but the Rochester hurler, Larry Maier. Maier was superb in firing a four-hitter past the pacific Garnet bats, and in reg.istering a compiete game struck out fourteen and walked only four. Ncidcl, who ended a brilliant baseball and basketball career at Union, was not his usual self in absorbing his second loss in six starts. The lanky righthander was touched up for two earned runs on seven hits, and a shoddy defensive effort led the way to the other two Rochester tallies, as the 'Jackets capitalized on four Garnet miscues to score two unearned runs. The Dutchmen scored their only run of the game in the seventh inning, as !\1ikc H. Solomon, the Garnet center-fielder, doubled home third-baseman Tom Miller, who had reached base on a single. Solomon led the way for the Garnet hitters, connecting for two base-hits, while shortstop Dale Long chipped in with a triple. II itt ing, which before the season The batsmen wound up the 1969 baseball season this afternoon with a make-up game versus Kings Point. The Dutchmen were rained out at Kings Point earlier in the season, and today's contest was hurriedly No matter what happens at Kings Point, however, the Dutchmen are assured of a winning slate, and could quite possible post a fine 7-3 final mark. Nonetbeless, things could have been better for the 1969 Garnet baseballers if the hitters had come through witl1 a little more support fo:t the fine Union pitching staff. Frosh Lax Crushes RPI; Join Alumni 'Tilt Tomorrow By HANK LEVINE The freshmen ]across team finished its season in grand style last Saturday afternoon by defeating traditional rival RPI by a score of 15-1. The young stickmen closed out their fine season with a six an~ two record, losing only to llobard (13-6) and Cortland (9-8). The season statistics seem to point out some of the Garnet's strong points. The freshmen allowed their opponents only 33 goals while racking up 93 of their own. Coach Brown was confident at the start of the season that if his defense held up, the offense would come along. It appears that he and his squad found the right combination, as his \offense came on stronger than expected, scoring some lovely goals in the R.P.I. game.\ Mark Sanderson Jet the squad in scoring, with 19 goals and 16 assists for a total of 35 points for the season. Dave Block was second with 22 goals and 1 assist for 23 points, with John White third with 7 goals and 12 assists for 19 points. Looking to the future, Coach Brown claims that tomorrow's Alumni game could tell the true story of whether any of the freshmen will be able to break into the varsity squad next season. Mark Sanderson and Dave Block the Garnet's top scorers and their fine goalie, Bob Erlandson, will get a good looking-over along with the rest of the squad. At the end of the term, Director of Athletics Wilfred Ketz will become Director of Institutional Research for Union College, ending fifteen years in the former post. Below is the first in a four-part series on Mr. Ketz, his administration, and the future of athletics at Union. The series is by Michael Levin-Epstein '69, and Len Simon '70, former Concordy Sports Editors, and the current Sports Editor, Henry Fein '71. When Wilford Ketz, retiring director of athletics, completed his final coaching assignment as mentor to the Garnet indoor track squad at the New York State Championships in March, the illustrious career of a player and coach came to an end. Bill Ketz grew Hp in Detroit, Michigan where he attended Southwestern High School. Competing in football, basketball, baseball, and track, ketz was the school's first four- sport athlete. A solid competi,tor in all four sports, Ketz excelled in track and field. While in high school, he won the city championship in the javelin and the hammer and Recruiting Highly Successful: Grid, Hoop, Track Do W eU By LEN SIMON Reprinted From the Schenectady Gazette. Success in athletic recruitment at Union College has been slow the past few years, but the coaching staff has taken a tremendous step forward. Incoming freshmen should be the best all-around athletic class the college has seen. Football has come up with the largest squad in numbers, and it isn't lacking in size, speed or skills. Head Coach and Athletic Director George Flood calls it, \The best group on paper I've had since I've been here.\ Local talent is highlighted by John Siedlecki of Johnstown High, which was 8-0-0 this season. Siedlecki has played quarterback, halfback and linebacker, and versatility is one of his stroN.g points. \He's as good a running back as I've brought here in five years He should also star in baseball in the spring,\ said Flood. The best local player in contention for a line position is Skip Lega of Mont Pleasant. Lega was a three year starter for the Red Raiders and played every minute last season as the Raiders went 6-1-1. He is also a baseball standout. Area Backs Other area backs enrolling in September will include Allen Prysunka of Johnstown, Tommy DeCrosta of Bishop Gibbons, Charles Apkarian of Shaker, Tim Cain of Guilderland, Richard Woods of Ballston Spa, Kinzie Weimer of Troy, Tim Foley of LaSalle, Dennis Dodds of Roeliff-J an sen in Hillsdale, and Bob Mitchell of Shaker. DeCrosta was the small, but quick, sparkplug for BG's Diocesan champ. Mitchell was an adequate quarterback and superb place kicker for Shaker. From outside the area Flood has recruited a wealth of talent at every position. Tom Anacker, who was all-conference while quarterbacking Parker High of Janesville, Wisconsin, to a title will head an outstanding quintet of signal-callers. Curtis Rowe of Peekskill could be the best of the running backs at 6 feet, 210 pounds, with near sprinter speed. Flood has called his freshman line the strength of the prospective squad, and most of the talent is imported. Biggest will be Charles Weeks of Boston, 6-4 and 235 pounds, an all-conference tackle. The best may be Ken Giacco of Berner, N.J. He co- captained a team which has been undefeated through three seasons. Other excellent line prospects are Bob Noelsch of Massapequa, Bill Slivka of Rome Free Academy, Rich Klein of Cortland, and Doug Janssen of Pascack, N.J. Depth is notable in every position, and many not included in this list may become real stars. Hoop Prospects Basketball candidates are considerably fewer in number, but certainly not lacking in talent or experience. Mike Doyle of Linton, Tony Delgado of Mont Pleasant, and Tom Bacher of Troy's Catholic Central will make up the local nucleus of Coach Chris Schmid's recruitees. Doyle was a key factor in Linton's Sectional and A-E championship team, averaging middle teens in scoring, but helping most with his rebounding, defense, hustle and leadership. Delgado averaged 24 points per game as Pleasant rolled to a 15-6 mark, its best slate in a decade. He was at three-year starter, Class A league scoring champion, and had a high game of 39 points. Bacher was the leader of Catholic Central's Diocesan League champ. A fine outside touch gave him a scoring average of 23.3. The 6-5 forward had a high game of 38. He was recruited heavily by basketball powers in all regions. Others who should help next year are Dan Kelly of Whitehall, Curtis Rowe after football season is over, and Jim Bolz, a 6-5, 215 poun~ rebounder from New York City. Track coach Ron Coleman may have more potential talent in his freshman class next year than he will have in the sophomDre, junior and senior classes combined. Delgado has done 23·4 in the long jump and 46-7 in the triple jump. Woods will have 10.0 speed for gridiron and track competition, Apkarian is a fine pole vaulter, and Neelsch a standout in the shot put. Mark Brenneman of Natick, Mass. will be a fine two-miler (9:55), Joe Kanknes should open some eyes in the 880 two-time sectional champ boasting a 64-14·0 record. Sheldon won his section title three times and posted a 77-6-1 mark. Soccer Coach Gary Brown has a formidable group. Steve Rockwell, co-captain at Niskayuna, and Marty Goosen of Mayfield are the area boaters. The best of the rest include Brittin Eustis of Gunnery School, Roger Sherman of Scarsdale, Dave Bloom of Suffield School, Matt Swartz of Rockville Center, and Mike Willis of Baldwin. (1:58), Gray Watkins of ,..,..,.,...,.._..,...,.,..~.,.. ... Niskayuna will be quite a • formidable pole vaulter (13-2),. ~ TAKE OUT SERVICE ~ • Hot Dogs • Homburgs and Ed Rossi of Frederick, Md., • Hot Meals. Fish Fries • has run the 120 High hurdles in ~ ~ 15 flat. Local athletes expected • CAVA L 1 E R 5 • to back up this group are Pat -, ~ Murphy of Saratoga in \' • e Oper. Monday thru Fro day cross-country and distance, and -, 6 A.M •• 1 A;M. ~ Don McGough of Mont Pleasant .. Friday and Saturday • in the sprints. • 6 A.M •• 4 A.M. ~ Wrestling prospects will be ~ Corner Ero e Blvd. .. a & Jefferson. St. e headed by John Steadwell of ! Phone 346.9153 ~ Scotia and A. Penn Sheldon of ,...,...,..,._..,...,..,...,.,...,.,. Rochester. Steadwell is a WISE CATS KNOW you save when you buy COOK'S TRAVELERS CHEQUES STILL ONLY 75C issuance charge ON $100 Avai I able at: Hecks Travel B.ureau, Inc. 151 Barret Street Dor.p Travel, 112 Railroad Street Trevi Travel 10 State Street was Michigan state champ in the hammer. Ke·tz went on to Michigan in 1924 where he became a national figure ·in track and field as he finished fourth, first,. and second in the hammer thr0w in the NCAA tourney in his three years of competition. While in college, he established ,the hammer throw meet records for the Drake Western Conference and the Ohio Relays. In his senior year, he was track captain and out of a team necessity became a javelin thrower and placed third in the conference meet. Ketz qualified for the Olympic trials in 19 28 and finished sixth, missing by one place a position on the American squad. After completing his law degree at Michigan in June 1931, Ketz ·came to Union College as coach of track and cross country, He coached both sports without interruption until he stepped down from both in 1966-67. Good Teams Track teams under Mr. Ketz compiled a record of 85-88 while his cross-country aggregate was 87-88. The records are not that impressive, but until the late 1950's, when Union's track fortunes fell on hard times, Union was a track power in the state. Through 1959, the Garnet compiled an 80-61 dual meet mark which included five undefeated seasons. Ktez's track squads also won two New York State Track and Field Championships and fillished second on another occasion. Bill Ketz's cross country teams from 1931 to 1959 built up an 84-42 slate which included five undefeated seasons. Coached Stars Ketz coached many fine individual track performers, including Dick Cole of the 195 8 Garnet track squad, which Ketz • called his greatest. Cole finished fourth in the IC4A 100 and 220 y.ard dashes. Another fine <a performer was Emery Burton, a competitor in 1 936 whose 12' 10\ pole vault with a bamboo pole still stands as the Union • . record. Ketz cited Tom Hoffman and John Parille as two of his fin. est cross-country performers. Ketz has always been enthusiastic . about the coaching of track and field. He feels that the development ·Of personal 1 pride and involvement with people have been his aims in coaching. Mr. Ketz's coaching achievements have been ' recognized by both the National Collegiate Coaches' Association and the IC4A, who have named ,. him as a Coach Emeritus. Mr. Ketz's c0ntribution to Union College has gone far beyond the arena of coaching. ~ From 1937 to 1942, he was physical education head, and in 1 9 3 8 he developed the • intramural program. In 1942, Ketz served as director of admissions, establishing the policy of allowing all persons ,~ accepted in that year to come to Union at the conclusion of the war. With the coming of the ' veterans at the end of the war, Mr. Ketz became director of veterans' counseling, a post • which he held until 1954, when he became director of athletics. During his fifteen-year tenure as Director of Athletics, Mr. ' Ketz made many advances. In addition to numerous improvements in the physical plant, and his revolutionary • maintenance program, the size of the athletic staff has grown from six to nine .. ANYMANCAN GET BUS·HED . .. and do it without a safari, either. Simply slip into our sport.worthy bush jacket and head out into a sum mer well·d res sed. The workmanship is superior, the fabric tough, the lookvirile as ever. Get bushed, while the sizes are all still in ~tock. 8 I ~f~ $16.00 [qr ~q~irr ~bnp 4_ 0 STATE STRELT, 377-3061 £> • VOL. 98, ·; .. ' • • • Alan C Saturday. • Se • Applica student-fac 1969-70 • available offlce or I living unit completec •Student . Friday aftc All intE The ~lie •the comm Student S send Presi .student committeE list in rna summer. • A cor Senate, d presently student-fa• • Their repc Student Sc BeloVi , stu den t-J duties, an serving on Admission ''on the cr students app licatic students a 'Athletics its discrct intramur ,, athletics, recrea tiE students sc CampusD <considers campus a1 to the Tru il. and GroUJ improvem this comrr: Comprehe :. committe( affecting of the C'ompreh 'l stude11ts

• • rb 1969 1958 ich Ketz • finished and 220 fine ., a 12' bamboo e Union • . of his s been coaching that personal 1 with aims in coaching been ' National named ·• to far ~ he was j, and in the • n 1942, of ing the persons •8 come to of the of the ' the war, ector of a post • when athletics. ar tenure Mr. • In physical • the size grown • Founded al Union College 1877 VOL. 98,NO. 51 • Alan Cohen and friend at the Big Erothers' picnic in Jackson's Gardens on Saturday. • Apply Now SCHEN:ECTADY, N.Y., MAY 27, 1969 PRICE TVIJENTY CENTS HCM's Statement on Campus Disorder Fails In Bid For Senate Approval The President's proposed ·~clear statement of rules for ·campus conduct, including penalties for violations thereof' was rejected by the Student Senate l'ast night. The overwhelming vote in the Senate was hugely due to Senators' objection to the law passed by the State legislature and signed by Governor Rockefeller on April 21. Any college or university in the state that does not file the required statement with the Commissioner of Education within 90 days of passage of the law is liable to lose all state aid, Dean of Students Edward Malloy told the Senate. The Senate unanimously approved a motion that asked the President to join the Senate in an open meeting to discuss their differences in the matter before the Senate acted on it again. The President asked the Senate and the Faculty Council to consider the proposed statement .\since it is important that whatever statement we me have general concurrence of faculty and students as well as formal endorsement by trustees,\ he wrote in a covering letter to the Senate and Faculty Council. The text of the proposal: The life-line of a college or university is free discourse and open access to such discourse, whether it be spoken or written. Its guiding principles are civility and reason. As a social institution, it is bound by the laws of the society of which it is a part, but its internal governance is largely in its own hands. To promote and protect that governance, the following regulations, approved by the Trustees of Union College, shall obtain: A. I. There shall be no interference with the legitimate discourse, traffic and business of any persons who have an approved association with the College. 2. There shall be no sequestering, Bust rumors Empty, they say The most recent flurry of drug bust rumors was denied by both John Kleinkauf, head of security, and other usually reliable sources. occupation, seizure, or appropriation of buildings, parts of buildings, equipment, documents or flies belonging to the College or to members of the College community without due legal process. 3. There shall be no prohibition of public meetings or other gatherings by members of the College community for the purpose of discourse unless, in the opinion of the Trustees, acting through the President as surrogate, the safety of persons may be threatened by such meetings or gatherings. B. I. Violation of any of these regulations shall (may) result in disciplinary proceedings conducted by the College against all persons officially associated with the College. Such proceedings shall be initiated by order of the President, or by an officer whom he may delegate, and shall observe the proprieties of due process characteristic of academic proceedings of this kind. 2. Violations which result in the arrest of persons associated with the College by sworn officers of the law shall (may) be subject both to action by the proper court and, ·if those persons be members of the College community, by the appropriate disciplinary body of the College. Senate To Nominate Committeemen The rumors started on Saturday as Don Bosch returned from jail with word that there were indictments in the county D.A. 's office for more than a score of Union students. If these indictments do exist, it is unbeknownst to Kleinkauf, who said yesterday afternoon that he knew nothing of a planned bust. The new head of security was specjfically charged by the President with establishing liason with local law enforcement agencies. 3. Violation by persons not officially associated with the College shall (may) be the occasion for ejection of such persons from the campus and shall (may) be the subject of such civil or criminal proceedings through the city, county, state, or federal courts as may be appropriate. • Applications for membership on student-faculty committees for the 1969-70 academic year are now • available in the Student Activities office or from student senators in the living units. The applications must be completed and returned to the ,,student Activities office by 4:30 Friday afternoon. All interested students may apply. The l!£Plications will be processed by • the cmnmittee on committees of the Student Senate. The committee will send President Martin a list matching 11 students and student-faculty committees. The President will use the list in making appointments over the summer. ' A committee of the Student Senate, chaired by John Brown '71, presently is doing research on the student-faculty committee structure. • Their report will be considered by the Student Senate early next year. Below is a list of the . , student-faculty conunittees, their duties, and the number of students serving on each: Admissions - The committee advises ''on the criteria observe'd in accepting students and passes upon all applications for admission. Four students are serving on this committee. ' Athletics - The conunittee reviews, at its discretion, the policy pertaining to intramural and intercollegiate •L athletics, physical education and recrea tiona! opportunities. Two students serve on this committee. CampusDevelopment- The committee t considers the physical condition of the campus and makes recommendations to the Trustee Committee on Buildings 'L and Grounds, and the President for its improvement. Three students serve on this committee. Comprehensive Education Board . The :. committee is responsible for policy affecting development and operation of the entire program in Comprehensive Education. Two 'l studellts serve on this Board. Two students also serve on each of these committees: Comp. Ed., Freshman Year, Camp. Ed. Options, Comp. Ed., Junior Projects, and Comp. Ed. Disputed Questions. These committees deal with specific areas of the Comprehensive Education program. Curricular Affairs · The committee advises Faculty Council on all matters concerning the academic programs at Union. Two students serve on this committee. Discipline This committee adjudicates on cases brought to it from the appropriate student judiciary committees. Six students serve on this committee. Foreign Study · This committee reviews the applications of students who wish to study abroad either in a college program or independently. It works to develop new programs of study abroad. Two students serve on this committee. Graduate Study ~ The committee has Nam-man Speaks Don Luce, one of the first members of the International Voluntary Services Program to serve in Vietnam, will speak in Davidson Lounge on Wednesday, May 28th at 6:45p.m. He travelled widely in Vietnam from 1958 through 1967. He has contributed articles to many national magazines and has just completed a book, Vietnam: Forgotten Voices, with a forward by Senator Edward Kennedy. Luce will be addressing himself to the prospects of the non-communist opposition to the Saigon Government and to the post•war reconstruction that he forsees for Vietnam. responsibility for recommendations on courses, programs, and conditions pertaining to graduate study at Union: Two students serve on this committee. Honorary Degrees and Special Events. - This committee recommends to the Trustees candidates for Honorary degrees and may help the President plan special events. Eight students serve on this committee. Honors - The conunittee reviews the requirements for honors in the various departments and recommends changes to the Faculty Council. Four .students serve on this committee. Liason · This committee serves as an ombudsman. It has no legislative· power but makes recommendations. Two students serve on this committee. Lectures and Concerts - This committee assumes responsibility for· selecting and arranging programs and for providing hospitality for performers. Two students serve on this committee. Library · This committee advises the librarian on library policy and advises the college administration on the bookstore. Two students serve on this committee. Religious Activities - This committee advises the Director of Religious Activities on the selection of programs and visitors. It discusses the range of religious activities appropriate to Union. Three students serve on this committee. Security and Safety -This committee regularly surveys Security conditions on campus and makes recommendations to the President on policy, program and facilities related to these matters. Three students serve on this committee. Standing of Students- This committee reviews the records of those students receiving less than a satisfactory term average. Students serving on this committee help review college policies .affecting the standing of students but do not consider individual cases. Three students serve on this committee. Other .highly placed sources in the administration also confirmed that College authorities know nothing of any bust. The rumors were aired at the meeting of the Student Apocalypse Monday afternoon. C. Penalties to be imposed by a disciplinary body of the College shall (may) include one or more of the following: reprimand, fine, probation, suspension for limited or indefinite time, expulsion. In the Chapel Mezzo-Soprano Recital Thursday Miss Nancy Jo Davidson, a mezzo-soprano who has sung with the New York City Choralaires and the Capitol Hill Choral Society, will Miss Nancy Jv Davidsen Thursday Chapel Recital present a recital at 8:30p.m. Thursday at Memorial Chapel. The recital is sponsored by the College's Department of the Arts and is open to the public without charge . Edward Hausman will accompany Miss Davidson on the piano. The program will be \Rastlose Liebe,\ and \Heidenroslein Schubert; \'Morgen and \Ich trage meine Minne,\ Strauss; \Deux Romances,\ and .. La Mandoline,\ Debussy' \Allsluia Mozart; \Connais te le pays,\ Thomas; and \' Mio Fernando,\ Donizetti. After intermission, Hausman will present \Ballade in F minor, Op. 52,\ Chopin; and \'Fr uh li ngsnacht,\ Schumann-Liszt. Miss Davidson will end the program with \!deale Landschaft,\ \Am Ufer,\ and \Hitnmelfahrt V<Jn Webern; and \The White Gulls,\ \The Cage,\ \West London,\ and \The Seer,\ Ives. A graduate of Barnard, Miss Davidson has sung with the Lake George Opera Festival and the Capital Artists Resident Opera Company. A number of her radi<J performances have been broadcast by the Voice of America in Europe ..

PAGE 2 IVIAY 27, 1969 IR C Symposium On U.S. Policy ~ 1 Mountebanks This Thursday, Friday and Satu~day, May 29, 30 and 31, the MountebaRks will present two student-directed one act plays. The plays are \A Summer Ghost,\ by Claude Fredericks, to be di:t:ected by Christopher Kennedy, '72, and \Crawling Arnold\ by Jules Feiffer, to be directed by Joel Blumenthal, '69. \A Summer Ghost\ features Rob Grant, '72, Gil Lowerre, '72, and Lois Schwaber, a student . at Niskayuna High School. \Crawling Arnold\ features Dan Shocket, '72, E. David Pierson, '69, and Jody Hiatt, Nonny Soifer, and Janice Forde, all students at Niskayuna. Tickets are free for Union st1:1dents, $.75 for their dates, and $1.50 to the general public. They may be pmchased by calling the Nott Memorial Theater, 3464098, between 1 and 5 p.m., or at the door. Tickets go on sale Wednesday. LETTERS TO THE EDITOR. On May 18 Congressman William F. Ryan, an International Relations Club speaker, called for a complete review and restructuring of American Foreign Policy. This week the club will sponsor a symposium on that topic Wednesday, May 28 in Library Court at 3:30. Four Union professors will provide background material in four areas vital to foreign policy. Professor Donald Thurston wiH speak on Japan and Asia with focus on the upcoming renewal of the U.S. - Japanese mutual defense treaty. Professor Walker Connor will discuss relations with France and Western Europe in the wake of DeGaulle 's departure. Professor fhemas Kershner will explore the ramifications of the anti-ballistic rnissle system. Professor Steven Berk will provide a discussion of foreign policy options witll regard to the Middle East. Also joining in the sessioA will be Donald Luce a former AID official in Vietnam who left that position t() speak out against the war. Professor Robert Sharlet will serve as moderator as each speaker presents approximately 10 minutes of comment on his special area and then opens the floor for questions and statements by students. LIFE DAY To the Editor: This Friday is MeinoriaJ Day, commemorating those 4\..merican soldiers who have died, each time, in the war ,to end all wars--in the war that was to insure peace and freed'om. We, of the Committee for a' Sludent Apocalypse, are .tired of mourning. We are tiued of war. We are, the1re·fo-re, proclaiming this Friday to be a festival day, a day dedicated to the affirmation of life in the face of death and destruction. TheFe will be a celebration of ·~life day,\ this Friday at 3:30 p.m. on the lawn in front of Hoadley House (the ROTC building.) We're no,t revolution,aries, survey say·s There will be music> athletic equipment, and games--so bring some beer and bring a girl or whatever else you want, but be there--and live. The great majority of college students say they have never used either marijuana or LSD -· and don't intend to. Most also disapprove of sexual promiscuity and adhere to traditional religious beliefs. These arc some of the major findings of a nationwide survey of student attitudes toward American institutions, and of their values and beliefs. It was made at colleges and universities, large and small, public, private and religious. Students' actual experiences and attitudes toward such matters as drugs, sex: and religion differ sharply from some popular impressions. Only 24 per cent of all seniors, for example, have ever tried marijuana. A majority of these have used the drug two or three times at the most. OnJy nine per cent of the students described themselves as occasional or frequent users. LSD has been used experimentally by a very small number of seniors - 3 per cent. Students who are highly critical of American society and those active in student political movements are more inclined to use drugs than others, Jersey Standard's study shows. But, even in this grou?, occasional or Habitual users are a comparatively sm!J.ll minority. Although most students have not used drugs and show no interest in them, there is considerable feeling that marijuana laws should be liberalized. Almost half the seniors think the sale of marijuana should be made legal but under con trois such as with liquor. The same does not apply to LSD; only 7 J>er cent would legalize its sale. If the sup?osed \sexual revolution\ is really occurring on the college campus, Roper Research Associates Associates found little evidence of it. Far from being promiscuous, most freshmen and nea.rly half of the seniors say that they are either opposed to pre-rnarital sexual relations or believe they should be limited to women they expect to marry. Two-thirds of the unmarried seniors and half the freshmen report having had sexual experience. The seeming .. Tho s e tL' h o m a k e pea ce J u 1 revolutio11 impossible mi1ke Piolntt revolution inevitable.\ ~ro~· ,:s.:; .... ~~ Qlonror 17 t. r.t. 9 ~ ?ttrn!ii!l ('lo'':!'!J ~~J-J.· Pwbl1ti'\C'd T\Jf'lday a.nd Fraday dwt· lnc ,,.,,. acl'lool yrer b>- thr SIYc1Pnl lilody a( Unaon Coii~CI' Sc hrnrc lld'r' N.Y. Nataonal Ad'VttiJill'\l Rtprt· arnlata'-'f N•ltOI'\al Educ-ataon•l Ad ... •rl,aanc Str\taC • Jnc Co lit I• Publithf'ra Rrprll'tPntati\W, J60 Leo•tnllon Av~nur N. Y, C. Ed,, oro ol orr>< • Old C.ylft. Unton Coll•l• Publac-•tao\ Offace \litqtf· hur11 Pnnt1n1 &. B•nd•nc Co. Inc 416-411 Fdth Av• Tro). 2J!·44!0. Ent•red ,, thf\ St.hl!nf'ctady Pou Ofl&c~ e1 Srcond Cltal W1al Mattrr. Subacrlpt&on 20t a copy. 16 • Y~lr de-lnf'red •nywl\lrrt 1n lh.• Unatf'd Stat t t. NEILS. KRAMER Ed.Jtor·in-Chief WILU AM OUZER Managtng Ecittor CARL GOLDSAND Business Manager SENIOR BOARD Paul Andrews, Andrew Crisses, Henry Fein, Bruce Husten, Alan Me II, Peter Weingold. JUNIOR BOARD Jeff Birn, Uoyd Birns, Jerry Levine, Jody Saslew, Michael Swirsky, John Schosheim, John Brunswick, Bill Holleran. STAFF Tony Beninati, Bruce Garber, Phil Galdston, Alan Greenfield. George Kaplan, Hank Levine, Steve Levy, Stu Moss, Gary Prevost. Randy Sutter. contradiction may arise from the fact that the experiences of a number of respondents were related to the women they expect to marry. Less than a third of the students approve of casual sexual activity. Concepts of religion vary, of course, with the individual, but a rnajority of the students and alumni might be caHed religious. Most expressed a belief in God as either a Supreme Being or a governing force that guides the universe. God was defined in four different ways in the study. Students were asked to select the description that best expressed their views. The largest number of seniors -· 33 per cent -- chose the most orthodox definition, \the Supreme Being who rewards and punishes.\ Only 8 per cent of the seniors said they belonged to no religion. Freshmen are stronger in their beliefs than seniors; alumni, less so. This would seem to indicate some lessening of faith with the passage of years. There is some indication that students' moral opposition to the Vietnam war may not be as widespread as generally supposed. This showed up when the seniors were asked to give their views on military service and the draft. Although about a third of the students expect to go into military service right after graduation, almost the same number will try to avoid it •. 25 per cent by legal means, 2 per cent by any means, including going to jail if it comes down to that. Of the anti-draft group, only 29 per cent specifically cited the \immoral war in Vietnam\ as the reason for their aversion to military service. A majority's reason: ''I have better things to do.\ By \better things,\ they presumably referred to graduate studies or the pursuit of a chosen career. The others said frankly that they didn't want to get killed. The survey also tends to deflate another popular impression--the prevalence of the so-called ''generation gap.\ Fully two-thirds of the freshmen and seniors reported that they and their parents agree on most things. NEWEST Committee for a Student At>ocalypse Shallow Committment To the Editor: After almost 175 years of existence, Union, through the initiation of the Proj~ct Hope program, has finally consented to open its hallowed hillls to the surrounding community. But this seems a shallow committment, indeed, when the young kids who live in the immediate vicinity are Calendar Wednesday, May 28- Film Haps, S.S. 16, 7:00 and 9:00 p.m., \Wait Until Dark\ Thursday, May 29 -Recital, S.S. 16, 8:30 p.m., Nancy Jo Davidson, Soprano, and Edward Hausman, Pianist; Mo11ntebanks Production, Nott Memorial, 8:30 p.m., J. Feiffer -, .. Crawling Arnold\ & C. Fredevicks - \A Summer Ghost\ Friday, May 30 · Mo11ntebanks Production, Nott Memorial, 8:30p.m. Saturday, May 31 Mountebanks Froducti()tt, Nott Memorial, 8:30p.m. Sunday, June 1- FilmHa:ps, S.S. 16, 7:00 and 9:00p.m., \Across the Pacific\ Wednesday, June 2 - Film Haps, S.S. 16, 7:00 and 9:00 p.m., \Dark Passage\ Saturday, June 7 Final Examinations begin Acme Barber Sllop 509 Union Stre:et Experienced Barber> Nearesf to Unio.n :College Stu dents LU~£H 71 5 Albany Street Specializing: - HOT DOGS WITH FAMOUS SAUCE - DINNERS AND SANDWICHES - TAKE-OUT ORDERS - Union Student' Favorite Spot - (Serving Sc~enectady Since 19211 Mon.· Thurs. 7 A.M. -2 A.M. Fri .-Sot. 7 A.M.-4 A.M. ·Sun. 9 A. M,-1 A.M .. constantly being tossed out of such cherished buildings as the gym or Richmond House. Does responsibility lie only within the realm of a property-conscious, accident-fearing, insurance- oriented world? And the gruff-sounding man asked: \Who brought those colored kids in here?\ Edward D. Blechner '69 Mistake:n To the Editor: Recently an article appeared in Conoordiensis concerning the progress of the Fruhlingin Wien Program. Having been informed today of the contents of this article, we would publicly like to denounce the gross misrepresentation of the alleged opinions and activities of the group. Michael Crowley, a member of the Vienna group, had previously written a long article for Concordiensis, which expressed the concensus of the groups opinions. To the best of our knowledge, this article has failed to appear in print, even though it was sent directly to the Editor-in-Chief of Conc<ndiensis and then supposedly delivered to the office of Alumni Relations for use in other publications. It was especially disconcerting then, to learn that an article written by Richard Patterson (a non-member) and based on a cursory encounter with no more than one or two members of the program at an evening social affair, did appear. It is very frustrating for us, who have both enjoyed and profitted greatly from this program, to hear that the Concordiensis has deigned to print such a gross, obscene, and inaccurate description of our program. We unanimously feel that our stay in Vienna has been more than a success, and hope that this travesty has not affected the future of this or similar programs. Sincerely, Twenty-eight Students of the Fruhling in Wien 'Program Editor's Note: We sincerely regret any anxiety or mix-up ~au~d by Patterson's article. Unfortunately the article mentioned as sent to us by Mike Crowley never reached our mall box or any of us by other means. We are confident that Patte.rnon's article was a sincere .. and accurate accounting of the opinions be had an opportunity to sample. • Many thaaksO) To the Editor: We would like to take this opportunity, though slightlyt~~ belated, to express our thanks to the many ,individuals on campus who supported us in the• planning and carrying out of the Black A..rts Festival. In particular, Neal Gordon, who made th·e nece-ssaryo arrangements for the oar wash held on Parents' Weekend, the guys who gave time to wash cars, Ken Bousquet, who set up the$ art exhibit in Old Chapel, John Terry ' w h 0 s e n H afl cia! contribution helped immensely 'fll and our ticket-collectors-recep- tionists, Mrs. Antoinette Reid and Mrs. Feter Crawfmd. This list is to 0 long for us tot complete, 'but our gratitude to those not mentioned is not less than to those cited above. The Black Students~ Alliance• BLITHER • A discussion of \a Black floor in a white dorm\ will be held by Prof. Sharlet's Comp. Ed. 30 class on Wednesday, at 11 :30' a.m. in S.S. 016. The class is open to the public. Speaking in favor of a Black, floor will be Vic Brown, President of the Black Students' Alliance, and Jose Da Costa. Speaking for integration of all• living units will be Kent Doyle. Prof. Sharlet will moderate. • Anyone interested in taking a Bio-physics course next Winter or Spring term please contact• Jeff Birn or Alan Meisel, at 346-9959. The course may be offered if enough students are interested. • Room available in faculty, home on campus next year, in return for work. Call Mrs. C.W. Huntley at Fr. 4-1495 .. lll •\ ~ • .,. ~ • r .A • ,. .A • .,. .. • ,. ~ • ~ TAKE OUT SERVICE ~ ... Hot Dogs· Homburg• t • Hoi Meals· Fish Fries ... ~ ~ ~ CAVALIERS ~ ... ~ e Oper. 1.\onday thru Fro doy ~ fll , 6 A.M. • 1 A;M. ~ ... Fridoy and Satur.doy t e 6A.M.-4AM. .. ~ Corner Eroe Blvd, , ~. t • & Jefferson St. • Phone 346-9153 \ ~.,. ......... ,.~.,... ..... ,...~.,. P-------------------------------------------~Q Boulevard Bowl . 1 3S ERIE BOULEY ARD 40 AMF BOWLING LANES - Qpen 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES ZELLMER'S NORGE lAUNDRY AND CLEANING VILLAGE .AT 1559 VAN VRANKEN AVE. (at Hottie Street) DRY Clt:ANIN G WASHERS 8 Lbs. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ $ 2 . 0 0 1 2 Lb. . __ - - __ - - - - - . 2 5 4Lb.Min, ________ 1.00 20Lb. ____________ .35 DRYERS 30Lb ... ---------- .50 1 0 Min. _____ - _- _ _ _ .I 0 OPEN- MON. TO FRI. 8:00A.M. TO 9:00P.M. SATURDAY 8:00, A.M. TO 5 P.M. (CLOSED SUNDAYS) IF YOU HAVE ~EVER HAD NORGE DRY CLEANING DOr-IE WE CAfl BET YOU WILL BE AM.&.ZED • II li ( 0 MAY 2i RE Or Editor's In or, intereste and hon mull ovc (' whateve: necessar these d provided ' Honors who ar{ relevent c faculty year. l. Danft Dan Fellowst or recen colleges interest career a Ph.D. in t un deq Applicar single, a years o open to race or 1 held at : school i ' made f calendar renewabl c years. ~ individm exceed$ year ($: • year) pll fees. l depend• 1 available Candidat by the C and Uni• t to thr closing d be Nov interest 1 thereforf the IJai1 possible 1 should a GRE AI and Qu Saturday a earlier. Facul Martin L 2. Fulbr • A n awards t• will be g 1 year 197 be subr College Adviser, • (RoomS 1969. I knowledl 1 the coun to work the vari emphas1 • countries interes1 gta--duat contact t · .. · . detailed inkreste1 members .. with the 3. Lehm TheL be used t private it State in a maste l degree it public c To be eli be a U.S l applicatit possess prior to award. , t himsel applicatit must be l scores, 2 grade.s, qualifica1 be comp ' faculty.~ was Dece Facu • Profess01 Science) 4. Mars~ Mars] .... awarded

_2....:7 ,_1_9_69_...,. by other that a sincerett of the • take this slightlylli thanks to campus in the• out of the In who car wash kend, the wash cars, up the$ John •ra ette Reid This us to• to is not less s~ Alliance• • floor be held by Ed. 30 at 11:30' class is a Black, Brown, Students' Costa. of all• Doyle. • in taking a Winter contact• Meisel, at e may be are • faculty, year, in Mrs. C.W. ......... fl CE .. ~ ri ES \day oy ' • ... ~ • .. ~ •• .. !!. • .. ~~ • .. ~.,. • II .25 li .35 .50 G £ MAY 27, 1969 PAGE 3 . Re,port Of The Honors Committee LaGrange to Receive On Available Grants And Stipends Honorarr Degree Editor's Note: established in 1953 by the and protection of the weak,. nominations must reach the At Commen,c:emen t In order for students who are British Government as an kindliness, unselfishness, and Chairman of the appropriate ( interested in fellowships, grants, expression of gratitude for the fellowship; exhibition of moral regional committee by the and honors to have a summer to help given to Britain and other force of character and of middle of October (in 1968 the mull over ·credientials and write European. countries under the instincts to lead an.d to take an closing date was October :20). r whatever proposals might be Marshall Plan. Not more than 24 interest in his fellows; physical Application forms will the11 be necessary, we are publishing scholarships are awarded vigor, as shown by fondness. for sent to the nominees direct, and these descripti()ns that were annually. They may be held at and success in sports. these must be returned duly provided to usbyCommitteeon any British university for the Faculty Liaisorr Officer: completed by the middle of ' Honors and encourage those purpose of taking any regular Professor H. A. Wilson (Music) November (in 1968 the date was who are interested to .see the course of .study, at either 6. Watson Travelling Fellowships November 15). relevent liason people on the graduate or undergraduate level; This is a new program, started Faculty Liaison Officer: c faculty before the end of the they are tenable for two years, in '1968, by wbich the Watson Professor Shinagel (English). year. with the possibility in 'special Foundation invited 25 Colleges 8. Others l. Danforth Fellowships Danforth Graduate Fellowships are open to seniors or recent graduates ·of accredited colleges who h.ave a serious interest in college teaching as .a career and plan to study for a Ph.D. in a field common to the t undergraduate college. Applicants may be married or single, and must be under 30 years of age. Fellowships are open to persons of any creed, race or citizenship, and may be held at any accredited graduate school in the U.S. Awards are ' made for the academic or calendar year, and are normally renewable for a total of four c years. Stipends are based on individual need, and will not exceed $1 ;800~ for the academic year ($2,400 for the calendar • year) plus required tuition and fees. Higher stipends and dependency allowances are 1 available for married students. Candidates must be nominated by the College~s Liaison Officer, and Union College is restricted 1 to three nominations. The closing date for nominations will be November 1, 1969, and interested students should 1 therefore submit their names to the Uaison Officer as early as possible in the Fall term. They 1 should also arrange to take the GRE Aptitude Tests in Verbal and Quantitative abilities on Saturday, October 25, 1969, or a earlier. Faculty Liaison Officer: Dean Martin Lichterrnan 2. Fulbright awards • A number of Fulbright awards to a total of 34 countries will be granted for the academic 1 year 1970-71. Applications must be submitted to the Union College Fulbright program Adviser, Mr. Donald R. Thurston • (Room SS 213), by October 15, 1969. In general, a working knowledge of the language of the country in which one hopes • to work is required. Because of the variety of programs and emphases in the various • countries, faculty and students interested in awards to gra--duating seniors should c6ifiact Mr. Thurston for t detailed information. (Faculty interested in awards to Gaculty members should get in touch .. with the Dean of their Center.) 3. Lehman Fellowships The Lehman Fellowships may be used for study in public or t private institutions in New York State in any program leading to a master's degree or doctor's t degree in the social sciences or public or international affairs. To be eligible to apply one must be a U.S. citizen (or have made l application for citizenship) and possess a baccalaureate degree prior to the effective date of the award. A student must apply ' himself on a standard application foni.l. The following must be submitted: 1) GRE l scores, 2) Transcript of college grade.s, 3) three standard qualification appraisal forn1s to be completed and submitted by ' faculty. The closing date in 1968 was December 2. Faculty Liaison Officer: Professor Underwood (Political · Science) 4. Marshall Scholarships Marshall Scholarships are \ awarded as part of a program circumstances' of extension fora (including Uni0n) to nominate There are also numerous third. The value of the about four candidates each; 50 awards, available for students in scho1arships varies slightly Fellowships were actually science, engineering and some of accordirrg to the University awarded. It is assumecl that the the social sciences, in programs attended, but the average is program will continue, and that of such bodies as N.S.F., about $2,300 per annum. the College will again be invited N. A. S. A., N .A. T. 0. e: tc. Candidates must be citizens to participate. Students interested in any ·of of the U.S., and must either have Ali graduating seniors are these possibilities should a~ply already graduated from a eligible, and there are wide limits for details to Dean J.D. Palmer. recognized college or univevsity to the purposes for which they in the U.S.A. or be in their frnal may be used: in general it may year at such an institution. be said that they are intended to There is an upper age limit of 25 help newly graduated students (28 in the case of students to spend a year abroad in the Summer School whose studies have been delayed study of a1most any conceivable cur ,.,··.c u lu m by military service). Candidates topic, study which need not be must apply direct to the closely tied to any formal course a p p r o p r i a t e B r i t i s b in a foreign university. The Consul-General, according to the Fellowships are worth $6;000 location either of the College or each { $8,000 for married of their home. Applications students). They are awarded for must be submitted by the one year in the first instance, candidates themselves, but need but there are provisions for approval by the President or renewal for an0ther year at any Dean of the College. Members of time up to six years from the the class of 1970 who are date of the original award, and interested in this program should Fellowships will be held over for note that they will need to periods of up to five years for prepare their applications as students affected by the draft. soon as the session 1969-70 Seniors will be invited to begins, and preferably even apply early in the Fall term, and before, as the closing date for final nominations will be made applications is October 22, by the College not later than the 1969, and they are warned that middle of November. The fmal their applications must specify award by the Foundation will the particular course of study not be based solely on academic they propose to follow and the performance, but will also take University which they would into account such things as like to attend. Members of the breadth of interest and powers class of 1970 who think they of leadership. may be candidates should Faculty Liaison Officer: contact the Faculty Uaison Professor Reece{Classics) Officer as soon as possible. 7. Woodrow Wilson FeHowships Faculty Liaison Officer: It is expected that in 1969-70 Professor Reece (Classics). the Woodrow Wilson National 5. Rhodes Scholarships Fellowship Foundation will The Rhodes Scholarships may again award one thousand be held only at Oxford Fellowships to students who University. The conditions for propose to start graduate studies eligibility are these: 1) male in the fall of 1970 and have a citizenship in the U.S. with at clear interest in college teaching least five years' domicile, and as a profession. The Foundation unmarried; (forfeit by marriage primarily seeks candidates in the after election or in the scholar's humanities and social sciences, first year of residence.) 2) age but science and mathematics between 18 and 24 years; 3) majors may also be nominated, good standing at least that of a provided that they apply J unior at the time of application simultaneously for a National in a recognized degree-granting Science Foundation Fellowship. University or College. The range Students seeking professional of subjects that may be studied training (e.g. in law, medicine, is very broad, applied art and art engineering, educ:ation) will not history being an exception. be considered. Candidates must The student candidate must be citizens of the United States first obtain a written or Canada, and the awards may endorsement from his school to be used to attend any the effect that he is a suitable appropriate graduate school in applicant for a Rhodes. He then the U.S. or Canaa.a. . . makes application to the The Foundation ~il! 1tself Secretary of the Conunittee of finance 1_ SO of the re~1p1ents of Selection of the state in which Fellowsh1ps, and will pay a he wishes to compete. The stipend of up to $2,000 per closing date for 1968 was academic year pl1.1s up to $1,000 October 31st for entry into towards the cost of graduate Oxford in October 1969. tuition. Those Fellows who Cecil Rhodes left in his will receive no financial support definitions of the type of schola; from the Foundation itself s!~d that he wished to see assisted:·- a very good chance of recelVlng literary and scholastic help ~rom theirgraduat~ scho~l. attainments· qualities of Candidates maybe nonunatedm manhood, truthfulness, courage, the first instance by any member devotion to duty, sympathy for of the Faculty: such Union College will offer 24 undergraduate courses and sh graduate courses in its sum:mer evening session, which begins June 16 and continues through July 24. Also to be offered are special day courses in intermediate French ~rtd intennediate German. The sum:mer programs, which aie coeducational, are under the auspices of the colle;ge's Office of Special Programs. All of the graduate courses will be in the fields of industrial administration and statistics. Registration is underway, and VIlli \end June 16. A special evening registration period is scheduled for 6:30p.m. to 8:30p.m. Minday, hllle 9, at Carnegie Hall on the UJ:lion campus. Courses in the humanities Vlill be an introduction to classical Greek, Greek art andcivilization, expository writing, the modem American no--vel, logic and scientific method, anf an introduction to philosophy. In the social sciences will be elementary economics, elementary accounting, statistical methods, western civilization, an introduction to government, the American political system, human society, an introduction to sooial anthropology, industrial sociology, black Americ:a, a first course in psychology, so-cial psychology, theory of personai::ity; and abnormal psychology Courses in science and engineeJ:ing will be soil mechanics, fluid dynamics, Fortran programming, ;and analytic geometry and calculus. Graduate courses will be controlling forces in American economic development, human relations in industry, advanced topics in management theory, systems analysis for economists ;and managers, an introduction to probability and statistics, and an introduction to sampling theory. Further information may be obtained from the Office of Spe=cial Programs at the college. BOOKS Text ·Tech · & Art Drafting Equip. Soc & Comm Stat. UNION BOOK CO. 237-241 STATE ST. 393-2141 THE PEANUT STORE LUIGI'S RESTAURANT Fealurin~ PlANTE~S HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeats from all over the world. 406 STATE ST. SPECIAL121NG !N Italian- American Food I 125 BARR~TT ST. Schenectady Dl b-9744 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktoil Bor Gerald N. laGrange, headmaster at Rye Country Day School for the past 16 years, will he p.resen ted an honorary Doctor of Letters degree by Union College at commencement exefcises June 14. The Hon. Charles E. Goodell, junior U.S. Senator from New York State, will. be the commencement speak~r. La Grange is chairman of the board of directors of the National Association of Independent Schools and president of the Westchester Independent Secondary Schools Education Fund, Inc. A 1936 graduate of Hamilton College, he attended the Cornell University Law School and the Teachers College of Columbia University. He is a native of Fort Plain. Before going to Rye Country Day School as headmaster in 1 96 3, he was assistant headmaster at the Taft School, where he spent 11 years. For two seasons, he was director of Taft's summer session. LaGrange is chairman of the board 0f managers of Camp Dudley YMCA, Inc., and is a member of the Country Day School Headmasters Association. He is a past president of the New York .State Association of Independent Schools and the Fairchester Group of Independedt Schools, and is a former trustee of Briarcliff College. Concordiensis As the newspapers printing plant will be closed this Friday to observe Memorial Day. The final issue of Concordiensis for the 1968-6 9 academic year will appear Thursday, May 29. You don't have to live n:ear the sea to feel like an adventurer with the TM BULOVA OCEANOGRAPHER Oceanographer \D'' Automatic. 17 jewels. Two-tone case and band. $95.00 ~OJ~==~~ This big, bold watch makes you feel every inch an aquanaut. even if you just wear it tothe office every day. The brawny Oceanographer is the great fashion look of today-with today'spenchant for on-timeliness. Naturally, it's water resistant, with<~ special water resistant guarantee and lifetime renewal service certificate. Start feeling like ana<lventurer now! Oceanographer \C\ 17 j<!wels. Wllite dial with red markers. Stain less steel. Black rally strap. $55.00 Time Center Phone FR 4-1083 Jewelers

Concordy Sports P.AGE 4 Wilford l(etz\s Career -Victories: Leader On Local., National Scene At the end of the term, Director of Athletics Wilford K.etz will become Director of Institutional Research for Union College, ending fifteen years in the former post. Below is the second in a series on Mr. Ketz, his administration, and the future of atllletics at Union. The series is by Michael Levin-Epstein '69, Gary Prevost '69, and Len Simon '70, former Concordy Sports Editors, and the current Sports Editor, Henry Fein '71. Wilford Ketz has made significant contributions not oNly to the Union College community, but to local, regional, and national organizati()ns as well. His administrative ability and virtually boundless energy have been poHred in to a wide variety of positions. Here at Union, Mr. Ketz has attracted an athletic staff ·of the first class, one that is bringing the Garnet out of the mediocre doldrums of the 1950's and early 1960's. He has gained faculty status for the Department of Athletics, so mething not always enjoyed. At present, departmeNt members are represented in Division 4 of Center II on tl,le faculty. With regard to physical plant, Mr. Ketz has seen the construction of eight new tennis courts to replace the four ones destroyed in the construction of the Science Center. Mr. Ketz's office has made extensive plans for the c o n s t r u c t ion o f a new By BILL HOLLERAN The Garnet baseball team closed out the 1969 season in grand style on Friday, when the Batsmen whipped the Merchant Mariners of K.ings Point by a 6-1 score. The victory left the Dutchmen with a good 7-3 final mark. year, pitched all nine innings and was solved for only four hits. Douglas's one-run performance lowered the Garnet pitching staffs ERA to a stingy 1.33. Gymnasium abutti11g the present Fieldhouse. Present plans call for a facility that wiH include two new pools, one of which wiU be exclusively for diving, and a massive playing floor for basketbaH and volleyball. Intercollegiate basketball contests will be played in the new facility. · Plans also call for the alteration of the Fieldhouse, with the present dirt floorbeing totally replaced by a synthetic material, probably Tartan. A banked Tartan track will replace the present unbanked dirt, and in door tennis, as well as volieyball, badminton, and archery will be possible on the Tartan infield. In addition, the outdoor facilities will be remodeled, with the possibility of turning Daley Field into a permanent football-lacrosse-track stadium seating upwards of 3000 persons. Alexander Field will be used for extra-curricular, intramural, and possibly co-ed activities, as will a redesigned Garris Field. permitted to be ex-officio me10bers of both the Executive Cotnmittee and the Council Cvtnmittee. As, the representative of the college division, Ketz sponsored an amendment, later referred to as the \Ketz Amendment,\ whic:::h stated that an institution had to declare, for every sport in which it competed, w.hel her it wanted to be C()ll.Sidered part of the college or .\!l..niversity division of the NCAA. rhe '\Ketz Amendment\ became 01perative on September 1, 1968, Ketz served as chairman of the Constitutional Committee a.ml as a member of the Executive Committee of the Eastern College Athletic Conference. He helped found t ll'(l Independent College Athletic Conference in 1963 and held the position of secretary-treasurer until last September. The six teams in the I:CA;C. are Union, R.P.I., St. La.wrence, Clarkson, Hobart, and .A!lfred. Mr. Ketz has also served as President of both the New \York State Track and Field Asso and the IIC4A C:IVIL ' ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND 'MAY 27,1969 Ja:szcz.ak Stars in NCAAs; :Breaks 440 Mark W·ith 48.1 By HENRY FEIN Fresh man sensation Rick make the final five. ln thatrace,. 0 J a s z c z a k c a p p e d a n won by Desmond Shakespere of extraordinary yearling season Howarcl University in 47 .6, the Saturday, as he lowered the Garnet fresh speedster pulled Union C0llege 440 yard run down rUlmer-up honors in the 11 reco~d 'by alm0st one second in excellent time of 48.1 seconds. garnering second place in the Needless to say, J aszczak 's NCAA Mfanti~ Coast Track and future is exceedingly .brigh_t. ~ Field Championships at A Union sub-frosh did quite Dickinson CoHege in Carlisle, we 11 on Saturday., also. Pennsylvania. Appearing in Sche11ectady's Running in the varsity race William F. Eddy Jr. Memorial 4l because of .the new NCAA rule Tfack Meet at LintoN High, permiNing frosh competition in T<imy Delgado of Mont Pteasant post-season events, Jaszczak High School won thetriplejump broke the old record of 49:0, set and finished second in the long 4> last year by Allan Sessoms. In jump. the moming qualifying. heats, The Eddy meet ,js often J aszczmk :turned in a fine 48.9 to described as the unoffi~ial state q) Sports Schlock champions~ip, because it is .the A meeting for all students interested in playing soccer next fall will 'be held tomorrow, May 28th at 7:0@ •P.M. in Alumni Gym. All those who are interested but who cannot attend are urged to get in contact with Coach Brown. ****** The freshmen awards list has been posted. Winners should see Bob Ridings for their numerals. only occasiOn when the state's best public, private, and parochial school athletes meet e each other. Delgado won the triple jump with a leap of 45' 3Yz\ which\ is more than two • feet above the present Union mark of 42' 11 W' set by Steve Roehm in 1965. In the long jump, Delgado turned in a 22' t 2W', only two inches below the Union record set by Joel Nussbaum in 1962. YouCa•1 VOL9 ... Cou Rea . h Wef3 t ~ateri spring te1 distribute s to morro VI The computer •· ~tudent t1plamtti< sleposited ·~Dick Dar staff. Co] being lef1 ~ Facult allot som class for ~ evaluatio1 tests havt pencils · '' :!ectrog necessary ~ Daniel 1 would h gmde dis the Regis t, of course The distribut< ~return in are not course ev Friday's six run, eight hit outburst was a pleasant surprise fo; the normally light-hitting Dutchmen, who were batting a meager .208 going into the contest, and who had mustered only four runs and eleven hits in their last two starts. The Garnet batting leaders once again led the way for the rest of the batsmen, as Jim Wilson, with a .348 mark going into Friday's game, and Dale Long, sporting a .277 average, each swatted home runs to lead the Garnet rout. The Garnet glovemen continued their antics in the fie 1 d on Friday, and the Dutchmen comitted five errors for a two-game total of nine miscues. None of the errors, fortunately. did any damage. While on leave from Union in 1 943, Ketz served as an investigator for the Truman Committee, which studied the use of vital materials and the costs of the war effort; the chief investigator for the committee, Hugh Fulton, was a classmate of Ketz's at the University of Michigan, and it was through Fu 1 ten that K.etz became interested in the activities of the Truman Committee. AIR-PO LLUTI 0 N CONTROL ENGINEERS Help II • :.0tne of format a ,copy oft Score Early The Dutchmen wasted no time in scoring, as they pushed across two runs in the top of the first inning. The Garnet were in the driver's the rest of the way, scoring once in the fifth, twice in the seventh, and once more in the ninth. The Mariners got their only run off Garnet starter Joe Douglas in the fourth inning. Douglas, a 5-2 winner versus RPI in his only other start of the Friday's victory capped off another satisfying season for Garnet baseball fans. Over a two-year period, the Dutchmen have chalked up sixteen victories against only five defeats. Varsity Rally Falls Short In Alumni Tilt The Alumni, with the added services of this year's seniors, held off a last-quarter rally to top the Garnet lacrosse team, 5-4, here Saturday. Steve Ritterbush, star of the 1966-68 squads, scored two goals for the victors and assisted on two others as the Alumni raced to a 3-0 halftime lead. Freshman Mark Sanderson continued to impress, chalking up three goals and assisting on a fourth in the futile varsity rally. Hovey, Ray In Bowl lead Don Hovey scored a 3-0 sweep against Bruce Northrup to move a step closer to clinching first place in Division A of the Dutch Classic Singles League, in bowling action last week. Hovey scored at 210-575 series tc up his record to l7Yz-6~ and open a four-point lead ovef runner-up A1 Case. Case scored a 2-1 triumph over Pete Van Lund to gain the second slot. raised his mark to 18-6 while the latter dropped to 16-8. Jack Friers slipped into second place with a 212-566 sweep for a 17-7 slate. The League concludes its slate Monday night with six games, including a three-game position round. 'For three Generations.' Those Who Know .. Have been recommending - Ketz is a member of the NCAA and IC4A track coaches association, the Rotary International, and the College Business Managers Association. Mr. Ketz wrote the constitution for the College Business Managers Association, which was adopted in January, 1968. He has also been active in Schenectady, serving as President of the city School Board last year. Bill Ketz was the District Two representative to the College Division of the National Collegiate Athletic Association from 1964-1968. In 1967, he was elected chairman of the Collegiate College Committee. In 1968, he became vice-president-at-large, one of the three officers of the NCAA DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on NoH Street Open Daily 1 0 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to 1 A.M. In the evening's closest battle Gary Prevost scored a hotly-contested 3-0 sweep of Greg Ellis, who began the night in second place. Prevost won three games in the final frame--236-224, 191-181, and 201·200, tallying 628 against Ellis's 604. Prevost moved into third place with a 13-11 mark while Ellis fell to fourth at 1 2-12. Larry Ray remained in the B Division top spot when he scored a 2-1 win over Ed Fowler, who began the night in the second slot. Ray scored 215-577 against Fowler's 203-530, and HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER _ ''3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'• 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY • theGrea City e i •1 the World New YMk City- a city of censtant challenge- offers a variety of opportunities for Engineers who would enjoy a demand.ing career, that il.'l personally rewarding. Engineering careers with the City of New York offer excellent @p- portunities for advancement and better salaries than ever before. But real job satisfaction can come from helping to imp1·ove life for over eight million people in the greatest city in the world. For the Engineer this means helping to plan and construct new schools, hospitals, subways, bridges and miles of new highways; to devise lower cost housing; to eliminate air & water pollution; and to plan & implement sanitary engineering programs. This means you will be participating in programs of essential p1:1blic service as well as great p1·ofessional challenge. These are just some .of the many exciting projects open to you as a City Engineer. Nowhere else, will you find greater opportunities for such n\luable experience to broaden your specialty. Immediate openings are now available in many of our City agencies for trainee, junior and assistant level Engineers. June graduates \Vill be hired as Jun.ior Engineers. Students receiv- ing degrees in June, 1070 can be hired this summer as Engineer trainees -and then take leave of absence to return to school for degree. New York City is, of course, an Equal Opportunity Employer. Please \vrite or call and we will send you full details. RECRUITMENT DIVISION, DEPT. C-19 NEW YORK CITY STARTING SALARIES DEPARTMENT OF PERSONNEL 220 Church St., NYC 10023 (212) 566-8700 Trainee Junior Assistant $7,100- a year $9,100 a year $10,800 c year • · 1 depositec • Edito1 _ · reprinted r· ' f1 Times. I makes : recom1 ·~ . Concordl a t)commen1 • formatio group ru ,academi< auto nom WASI Nixon l ~settiqg f universiti The g force of ~would ~ effort fo1 The J .these sh the app1 sub-com1 Urban A \' The s by Rob Health, J (members Clifford George I and U tRomney N. Mitch The : , , specific ~~-. ¥ t;nquiries Secreta officials ,the grot itnmedia separatis rights la• ~Jtudy th educatio Some 1 . < sl~eptical I .'will actu broad c They nc tiJIJ , jt~oup b

, race,. 0 pere of the pulled in the 0 quite also. emorial • High, lejump long 4l often state fl .the state's e, and meet 1 the of 45' two 11 Union Steve long a 22' • the Joel II • • ~ VOL 98, NO. 52 ... Course Cri.tique .ReadyForFi~nal hWeek of ~Classes t l\'laterials for the completion of the spring term course evaluation will be distributed to all faculty members s tomorrow. The materials, which include computer cards for the recording of •· ~tudent responses, and a letter of t~plamttion to the faculty, are being . sleposited in faculty mailboxes by ~Dick Daniel and his course evaluation staff. Copies .of the questionnaire are being left with depalil:ment secretaries. ~ Faculty members are requested to allot some time with.in the last week of class for the completion of the course ~ evaluation by their students. Recent tests have shown that regular soft lead pencils will suffice and that IBM '' :Jectrographic pencils are not necessary. ~ Daniel said that the evaluation .t would be completed as soon as the gmde distributions are available from the Registrar. Student anonymity will, t• of course, be observed. The evaluation results will be distributed to the students when they ~ return in the fall. Publication details are not complete now because the course evaluation staff has to iron out \:.0rt1e of the problems in publication format and economy of printing. A ,copy of the computer print-out will be ·'deposited in Schaffer Library. Founded at Union College 1877 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., MAY 29,1969 PRICE TWENTY CENTS --------~--------------------------~------------------------- This is our last is~e for the spring te~. Although Concordiensis plans to publish six weekly issues in the middle of the summer, we thought 1t would be approprtate to close for the year with a photograph from the prettiest place on the Union campus. Drama Review Photo by Jody Saslow Mounties Competent In New Plays Those of you who go to see the Mountebanks productions of \A Summer Ghost\ and \Crawling Arnold\ at ~:30 p.m. today, tomorrow and Saturday will experience an evening of drama not unlike Mountebanks performances of the past: on the whole the acting is competent, but particularly in the case of Claude Fredericks' \A Summer Ghost,\ one can't help leaving the theatre thinking the acting ability might have been put to better use on a By BRUCE H. HUSTEN better play. Daddy Jack (played by Robert Grant '72) is an elderly southern fanatic who believes in saints and seances, while Telemacllus (Gil Lowerre '72) is his young protege who is off to New York City for a job. Zebediah (played by Lois Schwaber, a student at Niskayuna High School) is an attractive young girl who has chosen to accept the goodbyes of Telemachus to go on living in Daddy Jack's old Texas mansion. In her frustration over that dilemma as well as her own pregnancy, she commits suicide by swallowing some of Daddy Jack's poisonous \lotion.\ Christopher Kennedy '72 directs the production and has manipulated his characters successfully enough to bring out the best in the play. Grant as Daddy Jack has a gol)d southern accent (though some Continued on page 2 ACC Modifies Disorder Proposal Parietals, Okay The All College Council devoted its final meeting of the year to parietals, the President's proposed statement on campus disorde-r, and finding a third student member for the next year's ACC. The three and a half hour long meeting considered a review of the parietals system first. Ed ward Malloy, Dean .of Students, had sent a questionnaire to all resident advisers and fraternity presidents asking for their comments on the system of se If-determined parietals instituted earlier this year. With the exception of a few minor disturbances and difficulties from isolated individuals, the ACC concluded that the system was working very well. The Council unanimously voted to continue the present system. The review of the parietal system was required in the enabling legislation passed earlier this year by the College trustees. Fully half of the meeting was concerned with President Martin's proposed statement on campus disorder. Action focused on section A-3 of the statement which says: There shall be no prohibition of public meetings or other gatherings by members of the College community for the purpe>se of discourse unless, in the opinion of the Trustees, acting through the President as surrogate, the safety of persons may be threatened by such meetings or gatherings. Continued on page 2 N,ixon Panel May Suggest Guidelines · On Running Colleges Atldete of the Year Kudo To Neidel, Two Sport Star Editor's Note: The following is reprinted rrom yesterday's New York issues of the moment. .. , fJTimes. Until the Nixon committee makes any definite proposals or recommendations, however, Concordienses will make no editorial But other sources point out that the Administration is under enormous pressure from several sides to take an active role in stemming campus unrest, which has become one of the most divisive issues in the country. same time, he questions the advisibility of university presideats' sitting on corporate boards, a bit of moon-lighting that .often pays them more than they make from their university. r, e. es es ' ill ~comment except that we believe the formation and intentions of such a group are alien to the precepts of t academic freedom and university autonomy. WASHINGTON, May 27 - The Nixon Administration is considering ~settiqg forth basic standards on how universities should' govern themselves. The guidelines would not carry the force of law, but the Administration ~would place its prestige behind an effort for voluntary compliance. The first step toward considering .these standards carne yesterday with the appointment of a Cabinet-level sub-committee on education under the Urban Affairs Council. \' The subcommittee will be headed by Robert H. Finch, Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare. Other (members are Secretary of Agriculture Clifford M. Hardin, Secretary of Labor George P. Shutz, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development George tRomney and Attorney General John N. Mitchell. The subcommittee was given no f specific charge, and the shape of its \•;nquiries is likely to be set by Secretary Finch. Administration officials are letting it be known that ,the group will not only look into immediate problems-whether black separatism on campus violates civil rights laws, for :ilistance~but also will ~Jtudy the over-all problems of higher education. Some Administration sources are 1. ~' skeptical whether the subcommittee '.,'will actually be able to conduct such a broad overview of the universities. They note that often this kind of jl..~oup bogs dowh in the immediate Mr. Finch has received numerous letters from university administrators asking for official opinions on how universities should react to demonstrations. At the same time, several bills are pending in Congress aimed at cracking down on schools that do not take tough action against disruptive students. The Administration vigorously opposes this kind of legislation, and a serious, top-level inquiry could serve to head off these bills, at least for the time being. President Nixon and Mr. Finch have said in their public statements this year that they deplore the actions of student radicals. But they have made it clear that they place part of the blame for the campus unrest on what th~y consider the anachronistic governing structure of American universities. Mr. Finch is understood to be seriously concerned over such university practices as faculty tenure. He is said to be worried that some universities are permitting students to sit on boards of trustees. But, at the ORATORY The Senior Oratorical Contest will be held Wednesday evening, . June 4 at 7:30p.m. in SS 016. All seniors are invited to prepare an original speech and deliver it at that time in competition for valuable prizes. Contact John Sarris, 377-8244, for further details. ' Members of the education subcommittee are uncertain whether they should conduct the inquiry into university practices themselves or whether they should call in outside experts. The first step will be to establish basic premises on which to begin the study. No time limit has been set on the inquiry. But it is entirely possible that the end result will be a white paper outlining the problems and giving universities advisory standards under which to operate to meet the problems. Some officials are saying the Nixon Administration would encourage universities to comply with these standards much as the Johnson Administration urged business and labor to follow wage and price guide lines. Ironically, the Nixon Administration dropped the wage and price guidelines as unworkable. An immediate task facing the new subcommittee is to set a Government policy on whether the balck studies classes and all-black living quarters springing up at universities around the country violate civil rights laws. Early this month the Administration determined that Antioch College could operate an all-Negro Black Studies Institute as long as nonblacks were not excluded solely because of race . At the same time, the Department of Health, Education and Welfare said it was warning universities that black studies programs might violate the law. Officials are now cautioning that the Antioch ruling was not necessarily a precedent and that the over-all policy is still under study. Rarely does one individual performer dominate two sports in one year at Union College, but the winner of the 1968-69 Concordiensis Athlete of the Year Award has done just that. Senior Bill Neidel won the coaches' Most Valuable Player Award for both basketball and baseball at last Sunday's Block U Dinner. Neidel was a stellar three-year varsity performer in both sports, and was co-captain of basketball and captain of baseball in his senior year, Neidel carne to Union from Mont Pleasant High School in Schenectady as the holder of the Spaine Scholarship, given each year to the most promising Schenectady athlete coming to Union College. At Mt. Pleasant, Bill played basketball and base ball, and was a steady, if not spectacular, performei In his senior year, Neidel averaged about fourteen points per game, and was the team's leading rebounder. The highlight of Bill's baseball career came in his pre-high school days, however, when as a Little Leaguer in 1959, he played on the Schenectady team that placed third in the Little League World Series. Judging on his high school record, Neidel was not a \blue chip\ recruit when he entered Union, but his success story is written in his continuing improvement. After a fairly uneventful freshman year, in which he was second leading scorer on a mediocre basketball squad, Bill, like all other yearling batsmen, sat out the baseball season in the absence of a frosh team. As a sophomore, Bill was a starter in both of his sports. Averaging fourteen points and eight rebounds per game, the lanky sophotnore was second best for the Gamet in both Continued on page 4 Concordy Athlete of the Year Bill Neidel shooting from the comer against Rochester in the Fieldhouse. Nei~el came into his own this year, leadmg the team in scoring and rebounding.

PAGE 2 Self-imposed Tyranny Keepin!) the Marketplace Ope11 The Student Senate's rejection of the President's At this time last spr.ing, Union was in the midst of a · proposed statement on campus conduct has given all of us promising period of change -- the All College Academic an opportunity to study a document whose contents in no Council had just been proposed as an aftermath to the way serve the interests of students. twelve-point grading system affair and the College seemed The revisions by the All College Council are a move in to anxious to closely re-examine itself. But examinations the right direction, but we feel that the entire document and summer vacation interfered with this process and the ought to be dissected from top to bottom, for we see little President's early September conclave, which did set the • in it that is the least bit encouraging. groundwork for some important changes, like the new ') MAY 29, 1969 \ ACCModifiesHCM'sProposal Continueq from page 1 Don Kessler, student body president-elect and a proxie for Dick Rosner at last night's meeting, moved: that a tri-partite student-faculty-administration Mo11ntebanks Competent ') \emergency council'\ take the role of the College president ifl ·\ prohibiting public meetings that threaten the safety ·of persons. The State legislature and the Governor approved this law not because they were concerned with the colleges' definition of good conduct, but because they wanted to know how the colleges m the State would react to Continued from page 1 student government constitution, was an attempt at some difficulty from the Because of the short time ' 1 until the deadline for su brnission of the statement to the State Commissioner of Education, it 'I was decided unani.m.ously to word the statement so that it Fead: the President c0uld act in ·\ this regard only with the express consent of the emergency council. gearing-up the student body that could involve o:nly a audience's point of view with , enunciation) and manages to handful of students. convey the old man as enigmatic but confident; illogical but This spnng there are at least five areas of major stable. Miss Schwaber's portrayal A motion to accept the proposed statement as amended was passed by the Council 8-2, \ with Kessler and John Brown casting the opposing votes. misconduct. importance .that ought not to go a summer without Since the statement required by the State actually deals responsible student consideration: review of the first year with instances of disintegration within the community, of the Comp Ed junior project and disputed questions there can he no provision in that statement which relies on trust or the acceptance by one group of the discretionary decisions of another. Thus, a non-violent sit-in could be courses, plans for co-education, plans for the increased numbers of black students and disadvantaged students who will he here next fall, consideration of the proposed · interpreted as \interference\ and an \occupation\ which graduate programs with a watchdog outlook to the could lead to ''expulsion\. Similarly, there is no definition interests of the undergraduate student, afld formulation of of \due legal process\; and the \safety of persons\ a plan for student involvement In making curricular threatened by \gatherings .. .for the purpose of discourse\ decisions. We feel that these questions ought not to be ought to be limited to ~the physical safety of persons. ignored during the summer months. Concordiensis, then, Prohibiting these meetings ought not to be left to the will publish six weekly issues during the summer in order discretion of the President, as the proposed statement to try to provide a forum for creative thinking abowt the declares, hut ought to be judged by some more College when it is in recess. representative and diffuse group, perhaps the All College The summer paper will he produced by Upward Bound Council. In that way, the test of \'a clear and present students but the editorial supervision will be the same as danger\ which is the standard that the U.S. Supreme Court during the regular school year. The paper will be uses, could be applied. The President would still retain the distributed to the five or six hundred summer students at vote that he has over ACC decisions, although he would the College and to everyone who will be enrolled here in break precedent (as it stands now) if he did so. 1969-70. Unless the Nixon Administration acts with wholly uncharacteristic celerity, there will be no increase in our second class postage rates, which make large-scale mail distribution very inexpensive. The summer paper is being published in order to keep the marketplace of ideas about the College open throughout the summer. We have begun to solicit contributions to the summer paper, but sincerely hope that anyone who has something to say will send us his remarks for summer publication. The sections on enforcement m the President's proposed statement also fail to protect students adequately. First, the statement that makes violaters liable to discipline by both civil and collegiate action seems to us unfair. Rather than take advantage of the twin jurisdictions under which a student falls, the College's statement ought to reflect some sensitivity to the student's position. A clause stipulating no collegiate action would be taken if a case went to the jury in the local, state, or federal courts, ought to be part of College policy. The lrl =================::::::::::~ statement that the College would do its best to influence \ T h 0 5 e w h 0 m a k e peace J u l local law enforcement agencies to allow the College to deal b / k with these matters as internal affairs belongs in the text of rev 0 l u ti 011 i m p 0 55 i e m a ~ the statement as well as m the preamble. Also, the violent revolutiOH i11evitab/e.\ co-signature of a campus-wide body -again we suggest the All College Council-should be required on any complaint bringing civil or criminal proceedings against \persons not officially associated with the College.\ Finally, the concluding portion of the statement ought to connect the different magnitudes of violation with the penalties imposed by a College disciplinary body. We have suggested all of these further specifications to the College's policy on campus disorder because we feel that the law that requires it is reprehensible. At the same time that the College files its statement, we think that the President ought to include a message objecting to this interference in our affairs. We agree with Professor Wald that police violence is always more dangerous than student violence. We think that the College's statement on campus disorder ought specifically to refer to student violence, not student demonstrations. Similarly, that statement ought to include a multitude of civil liberties guarantees for students. The law that requires this statement on campus disorder ts decidedly illiberal. But that is no reason why the statement itself must be illiberal. The guidelines that State officials have circulated are vague, and the College ought not to let this vagJ-~eness lead it on to a self-imposed tyranny. Publ11l'l*d Tu• ed •Y end f'11 dt) du'· lna thr l<'hool yf'ar by th.r 5t ucif'nl 8ody of Un1on Coll\l\ SC\ktntcUdy N.Y. Nati'OP\Il Ad\letUttn& Repr4'• lentatav4' Nettonal Ed~C'Uacn•l Advl'rtuanc Se-t\YICe. Inc Cotleoat P~o~bhehl'rl Rtpreetnl·&ta\ •. .Jeo Lealncton Awf'n\.lt. N.Y. C. £d&loraal Ofhct. Old C.y\'. Una on Collr&•· Publ&e•l•on Ofhc~ lllh&lf• hurst Prant 1nc &. Bandana Co .. Jne 416·•11 F1fl~ Avo. Ttoy. 23!·4450. Enttrl'd an tt'lf' S'- h•n~ctady p.oat Off1C't et Second Cl••• Mul M•t.trr. Subacr~ptlon 20• • copy, .,6 • y.,., dt>hvtr«d anywh•t\e '\ the Unat•d St •t« a. NEILS. KRAMER Editor-in-Chief WILUAM OUZER CARLGOLDSAND Managmg Editor Business Manager SENIOR BOARD Paul Andrews, Andrew Crisses, Henry Fein, Bruce Husten, Alan Mell, Peter Weingold. JUNIOR BOARD Jeff Birn, Uoyd Birns, Jerry Levine, Jody Saslow, Michael Swirsky, John Schosheim, John Brunswick, Bill Holleran. STAFF Tony Beninati, Bruce Garber, Phil Galdston, Alan Greenfield, George Kaplan, Hank Levine, Steve Levy,. Stu Moss, Gary Prevost, Randy Sutter. of Zebediah is the least col!1vinciqg of the characters: the lines come out well but the facial expressiofls (usually of total bla·nkness) do not complement them. :L0werre offers the most acting promise for the future_ Before catching his plan.e to New York he comes hack to Daddy Jack and yells througll the locked door that he's gotten the message: \To die is to be born again.\ His characterization was the most co!lvincing of the lot. Director Joel Blumenthal took on a less complicated and probably more enjoyable task in put.ting on Jules Feiffer's \Crawling Arnold,\ a very brief ditty about Mr. and Mrs. Enterprise, their adorable infant son, their moronic 35-year-old son Arnold, Arnold's \psychiatric social worker\ Miss Sympathy, and the family's black maid Millie. The action centers around a practice air-raid drill that is to take place that afternoon. While none of the actors is outstandin'g, all perform convincingly in this play that can be characterized by its direct and channing simplicity. David Pierson '69 and Nonny Soifer of Niskayuna High School are Mr. and Mrs. Enterprise respectively, while Jody Hiat of Niskayuna is Miss Sympathy, who constantly tells the black maid Millie, \I have great regard for the aspirations of your people.\ Janice Forde of Niskayuna plays Millie and does so most effectively in her facial expressions which successfully convey her bitterness. Danny Shocket '72 plays A rn o 1 d Enterprise, the 35-year-old son who has \retrogressed and leaves one with the feeling (particularly A need for choosing another • student member had arisen beca1:1se the new student body constitution had abolished the ' in te r-residet'lce-council, whose president sat on the ACC. The Council decided to allow a seat 1 to the candidate who came in third in the at-large balloting for ACC seats. This move enlarged •I the at-large student representation from two to three on the Council. The total 'l number of students remained the same. John Brown, last president of 'l the inter-residence council, came in third in last week's ACC election and will ~etain a seat on 1 the Council. The inter-fraternity council, though now formally a sub-committee of the Student 1 Senate, did remain in existence under the new constitution and its representation did not 1 change. The IFC president will continue to be a member of the ACC. •) after he seduces Miss Sympathy during the air raid) that despite 11 this retrogression, (he crawl--never walks·-throughout the play) it is his parents and not\ he who need a· psychiatric social worker. . Combined, the two plays \_ should last just over an hour and r a half, and despite their traditional Mountebanks idiosyncracies, are well worth t ' your time. • Traditional Natural Shoulder Clothing f ' .. Jos. Nusbaum, Inc. 447-451 Stole Street Our 61 st Year in Downtown Schenectady ..• t'AGE 3 ,su Cont imp res: st t1den1 America industry study sh A c industn v~valen seniors ~ the sam .f leaders criticism ThesE findings attitude! survey colleges , and sm: religious Resear commiss ·~ Compan public sE The seniors ff purpos• surveys of the C ,, the thr1 seniors : similar ·.Ke Continu doling o ··and pre attempt regional e are skil allow conditio ex cell en •' sport. Last this attil Steve \ ~•entire s1 the 20 made th .rN CAA Charnpic been de Nationa ~ standarc was wel mark. \magic ~ final at he got a ! althougl ··~,the qu experier compE all-Ame: ' s ~ MAYF, ,, \' th~ TUES. tl .t THU - Oo' \ Lei A u Nl F Be One

t) 1969 \ MAY 29, 1969 osal ') ,Survey Shows: Most Collegians Support the American System the in 1 that persons. time '' bmission he State it ' 1 to that it act in ·\ e express the amended 8-2, l Brown another ' arisen body the l , whose The a seat 1 came in for enlarged •t o to three total 'l remained of,, came ek's ACC a seat on I -fraternity formally a e Student 1 existence and did not 1 sident will of the •) Sympathy despite '' (he and not !I social two plays ~;_ hour and r their worth ., ·, • ' • Contrary to a popular impression, most college students approve of the American system ·of business and industry, a nationwide attitude study shows. A career in business or indus try is also the most v~valent career plan among seniors graduating this spring. At the same time, business and its ,f leaders are not exempt from criticism. fhese are among the major findiRgs .of the survey of student 1 attitudes, values and beliefs. 'Fhe survey covered all types of colleges and universities, large and small, public, private and religious. It was made by Roper Research Associates and commissioned by Standard Oil ·~Company (New Jersey), as a public service. The study focused on male ~ seniors but, for comparative · purposes, included smaHer surveys of freshmen and alumni of the Class of 1964. In general, •' the three groups -- freshmen, seniors and alumni - expressed similar views on business and industry. The students were asked to appraise four integral U.S. institutions -- the political system, the Judicial system, business and iRdustry, higher educatio11. AU four were judged \basically sound,\ but the greatest approval -- by 87 per cent of the seniors -- was accorded to busmess and industry. A majority did find room for some improvement in the business and industrial system, but .on.ly a very small minority ; 3 per cent of the seniors thought it needed fundamental over-haulings. The assertion, frequently made, that most students are anti-business in their attitudes appears completely unfounded. Further confirmation of this appears in seniors' choice of the kin.d of job they plan to get after finishing school or military service, as the particular circumstance may be. The greatest number said they planned to go into business or industry. The second largest group plans a career in education, followed, in preference, by professional work and gove1:nment service. Only 7 per cent of the seniors had not made a defmite career choice. Not only are seniors weU settled on career plans, hut they have very definite ideas of what they want most in terms of job satisfactions. They even know how much money they expect to be making five years from now. The top job requirement? Mentally stimulating work. Today~s students also tend to be individualistic. Large majorities said they desired jobs where they would not just be cogs in the machine, and where they would have a chance to be creative. A chance to rise to the top -- the traditional success syndrome --was far down on the list of career requisites. Seniors who plan a business career have their financial sights set somewhat higher than those who intend to enter other fields. Half of the business-bound students expect to be making · Ketz Faults: ICAC, Localism Continued from page 4 doling out funds for post-season ,. and pre-season. If Union is to attempt to compete on a regional or national level if they are skillful enough, and must allow teams to travel for conditioning in spring sports if excellence is aimed at in that •' sport. Last winter two examples of this attitude came into the open. Steve Wedin went through an 1 \'entire season without losing in the 200-yard butterfly, and made the qualifying time for the .rN C A A Co 11 e ge Division Championships, but would have been denied a chance at the Nationals had he not surpassed a ~ standard set by Mr. Ketz, which was well below that qualifying mark. Wedin made Ketz's \magic number\ in one of his t final attempts. The experience he got at the Nationals last year, r although he was eliminated in · · ~, the qualifying, gave him the experience to react well to tough competition and make all-Amer:ican this_~.l\son. -;. ... -· • Tile PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP 262 Saratoga Road MAYFAIR SHOPPING CENTER A.t the Sign of the Red Neon Pipe TUES. thru SAT. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. ala!! THURS. and FWI.: T Jo 9 PM 'SCOTIA, N.Y. Phone 399-1630 Down to Louis' ,·let us go, \' Let th~ lager freely flow. Also last winter a plea for contributions was necessary to send members of the unbeaten wrestling squad to post-season competition. Again, success was not immediate, but that kind of competition can do nothing but help a wrestler who has put in an outstanding regular season. The athletes in question deserve the honor of competing, even if they do not bring honor to Union. Morover, excellence can never be reached if this type of competition is impossible. In the area of pre -season competition, lacrosse, baseball, and track teams could profit considerably by a southern trip during Easter vacation. Early spring weather is never good enough to allow athletes in these sports to reach the form expected in a season opener until the season is almost closing. The final area where it seems that Union has been lacking is in dissemination of sports information. The present avenues of publicity may have been adequate when the college was piling up consistent losing seasons, but they are no longer up to the task of publicizing winning teams. Publicizing a winning team not only bring potential athletes to the school, but also spreads the name of Union into more places that it has already reached·. Presently Mr. Sine of the Publications Department handles all sports publicity, but that is . only one aspect of his job, a~ he A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. NOW IN OUR l4.th YEAR For reservations phone FR 4-8917 is also responsible for much of the general publicity of the college, including speakers on campus, trustee decisions, and almost anything imaginable. Needless to say, sports rates at the bottom of the priorities. Mr. Ketz has settled for the present level of public relations, but it is hoped that Mr. Flood will not. . Either Mr. Sine must be alleviated of his non-sports responsibilities, or another man must be hired exclusively for sports coverage. Pressure from the athletic department could precipitate this action, if applied in the proper place. The overview of this critique of athletic department policy is that policy must catch up with recruitment procedures and won-lost records. Both of the latter have taken great strides in the past year or so, but policy shifts have not kept pace. The time for change is now, and the man to do it is George Flood. Now's The Time To MARRY ME Spring catches a young man's fancy Buy your Wedding Ring at Maurice Graubart · & Sons Jewelers, 166 Jay St. Serving Union for 3 generations. VROOMAN'S Beer- Grocieries Cold Cuts Magazines- Pastry 200 Nott Terrace Schenectady, N.Y. 12307 F·R 7-9834 ... ~~ ~====:::::::::-;========~========::; Phone 372-0528 PARK PIZZERIA Italian Grinders Our Specialty Boulevard Bowl 135 ERIE BOULEVARD 40 AMF BOWLING LANES Behind Davidson Hall- One Block from the Campus 25 Pork·Piace Schenectady, 1'-1. Y, :r. ~--------~--~ - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES $12,000 or more five years after graduation. Aside from their general approval or disapproval of American business and industry, the students were asked to cite the qualities or attributes of the present system which they most admired or disliked. High percentages credited private enterprise with progressiveness in developiRg new products, giving \good value for the dollar\ and progressiveness in providing job security. BuSiness also got good marks for its generous contributions to good causes, for well representing the U.S. in foreign countries, and for being a progressive social force in our society. In reply to a specific question, a sizable majority of seniors said they thought top business management had become more concerned with the national welfare during the last five years. It would appear that the \social image\ of business has improved in recent years among undergraduates. A sizable minority, however -- 33 per cent of seniors and 19 per cent of freshmen -- still think that the American system of business and industry is too much concerned with profits. This is at the expense of other things, mainly sodal responsibility, they believe. Another frequent criticism, expressed by 25 per cent of seniors and 34 per cent of freshmen, is that the economic system is \too big and powerful.\ But of those who criticized business for its size, very few referred to the problem in tlte traditi()nal tenns of ''monopoly.\ Instead, they scored big business for not giving small business a chance, having too much influence with the government, or representing too much power in the hands of a few. Business leaders do not come off as well in seniors' esteem as do educational leaders. Political leaders trail both. However, a large majority of students express some amount of confidence in businessmen's ability to make meaninfgul contributions to society. The seniors were asked to select those adjectives or phrases they considered most descriptive of the nation's .business leaders. The resulant work-picture may evoke mixed emotions in corporate boardrooms. Business executives were characterized by the students as able and competent, forward-looking and progressive, very intelligent. More than educators or political leaders, they were depicted as self-seeking, ruthless and lacking in the \moral\ qualHy of dealing fairly with others. The students were given another, indirect way of expressing their opinions of the business community -- by listing those qualities that they believe enable a young .person to get ahead fastest in business. The main attributes considered necessary for business success were, in order of importance: aggressiveness; creative ability; hard work, and intelligence. The survey sampled I ,000 seniors, 500 freshmen and 673 alumni from a random selection of 96 colleges and universities in all parts of the country. It was initiated in the spring of 1968 when unrest on college campuses had increasingly become major news. A great deal was being written and said about students' attitudes and beliefs, but little was known . APARTMENT FOR SUMMER RENT For one person $80 per month. Completely . furnished, short walk from campus. Phone 346-1957 (LATE) Learning how to save money with Savings Bank Life Insurance will cost you ... exactly6¢ Here's what your 6¢ investment will bring. 1. A detailed pr<>posal for your age on SBLI's most popular lifetime policy- Straight Life. Your proposal will show rates; cash and Joan values; dividends as earned; net costs and the various options that will be available when you retire. t 2. SBLI's new Buyer's Guide to Savings Bank Life Insurance ... packed with tips on how to save money on your life insurance. It explains in simple, language all the popular SBLI plans and benefits. It also includes sample rates and cash values . 3. An application form and instructions for its completion, should you decide to buy your life insurance by mail. Honestly now, isn't that worth a 6(· stamp? If you would rather ... visit our life insurance department and pick up this material. There is no obligation and you will save 6<'. .--------------NIAlL THIS COUPON TODAY------ -------\1 Please send me information on how to save money with low-cost Savings Bank Life Insurance. I under~>tand I am under no obligation and no one from the bank will visit me. Name __________ ~------------------------------------------- Address __________________________ _ State ________________ City _______ Zip. __ ~- Date of Birth ________________ Phone _________ _ THE SCHENECTADY SAVINGS BANK 500 STATE STREET SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK 12301 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I • I 1 PHONE: 372-5411 ''C\ I L--------- .. ----·llllilllllll.-.------------------------.!

Concordy Sports PAGE 4 MAY 29, 1969 I K-et_z_'-----------s ~Fa-ilu-re-s.- ~W......__..__ha------t ...._____Ne-ed- ~ s-T-o -Be-D- •· on-e -o-on- · Ho- · ve . · y- . a-----nd-Ja~ck ~frie..:.=_rs ~ . . At the end of the term, Director · of Athletics W.ilfard Ketz will become Director of Institutional Research for Union College, ending fifteen years in the former post. Below is the conclusion · Of a series on Mr. Ketz, his administration, and the future of athletics at Union. The series is by Michael Levin-Epstein '69, Gary Prevost '69, and Len Simon '70, former Concordy Sports Editors, and the cunent Sports Editor, Harry Fein '71. Wilford Ketz leaves the post of Athletic Director next month, and George Flood has been named as his successor. The purpose of this article is not to drfame Mr. Ketz, but merely to suggest where it seems he has gone astray, in the hope that Mr. Flood will give consideration to making the necessary changes. The biggest problem Mr. Ketz will dump into the lap of Mr. Flood is the league we are presently in-the Independent College Athletic Conference. Mr. Ketz was a co-founder of the organization, and therefore may be too close to it to see all of its faults. The ICAC is such a ludicrous organization that a complete description of its shortcomings would cause most readers to lose interest, as the list would be interminably long: However, a short explanation of its major problems will suffice to show why it can be deemed nearly useless. First, the league has no reason for existence. Most leagues are formed on the dual consideration of physical proximity of the member colleges, and relevant competition in most sports. The ICAC offers neither. RPI and Union are coupled in one area, Clarkson and St. Lawrence in another, while Hobart and Alfred are fairly well isolated from everyone. If tile level of competition was near the Big Ten, it could be argued that all the traveling was worthwhile. However, nothing of the sort is close to the truth. Disregarding the overall level of competition in the ICAC, the inconsistency is enough to make the league irrelevant. In football, Oarkson does not even field a team, and the other league members have finally overcome the relatively simple task of scheduling all the league opponents in one fall, a feat accomplished for the first time in the history of the ICAC. In hockey, RPI, Clarkson, and St. La wre nee play national championship caliber competition, while the rest of the league does not even field teams. In lacrosse, Union, RPI, and Hobart are normally competing on one level, while St. Lawrence, Oarkson, and Alfred are two or three healthy steps behind. This inconsistency and irrelevancy severly diminishes chances for an ideal schedule. For instance, Coach Allsion would most likely drop Alfred and Clarkson, if not St. Lawrence, tomorrow, and schedule better matches for the future in lacrosse. Coach Lawrence hopes to get Syracuse and Colgate on the baseball schedule, but the burden · Of ICAC cuts down his chances considerably. Were Coach Flood to continue to draw outstanding football talent to Union, he would be at a loss to schedule tougher foes, since he is committed to four league games. Non-league foes Williams, Kings Point, Rochester, and Hamilton have a greater potential to compete on an even keel with Union on the gridiron should Flood's < success continue. Finally, winning a league championship means next ta nothing. The press relations of t h e I e a g u e o ff i c e a re · non~existent or extremely inefficient. For example, league standing in football failed to make tile New York Times Monday morning listing of nearly every league in creation. A I so , the I e ague baseball standings are missing from a grand list in the latest edition of Collegiate Baseball, and said list includes twenty-seven leagues · or conferences, including such well known schools as ' Lewis, UT, California Baptist, Wartburg, Nevada at Reno, and McNeese State. No automatic tournament bid hinges on the league championship/in any sport. Also, tile anonymity of the league allows many to confuse it with the ECAC, causing people to puzzle over whether the Onion gridders are the frnest in the competition is another bone of east, or merely the best of a contention, as the .scheduling of motley collection. two games with the same Another policy which we opponent has been less and Jess strongly disagree with is Mr. frequent every season. We . see Ketz's refusal to • compete with this trend originated by Mr. Ketz Albany State and Siena. The two as detrimental : , ami feel that schools are incloseproximity to, home-and-home arrangements Schenectady, giVing our athletes with RPI, Ham.Jlton, Siena, or less long road trips, and giving Albany State could eliminate our fans more chance to follow contest with such distant places their teams. Contests with these as Drew, Kings Point, Stevens, two schools would make iBterest and the most distant of the levels higher for players, fans, ICAC member schools. and townspeople. Steps in this Leaving the ICAC, . adding direction already have been Siena and AIIJany State in taken, which we applaud. A several sports, and setting up Capital City Classic has been set home-and-home series with up for next Christman vacatim1, several schools would greatly involving basketball teams f.mm improve the 0verall scheduling Union, RPI, Sie11a, and Albany of athletic even1s at Union. Mr. State. Also baseball contests Ketz has opposed all three ideas. with both schools have been set What will Mr. Fl.ood do? for next spring, and Lawrence Another area where we feel hopes for home•and-horne series that Athletic Department policy in 1971. Extended competition has been faulty has been in is hoped for. The issue of ll.ome-and-home Continued on page 3 Neidel Wins AthWte Of Year Continued from page 1 catagories. Neidel highlighted a fairly successful baseball season with what he termed \the greatest thrill of my college career,\ a complete-game victory against Williams for Union's first win over the Ephmen in any sport in nine years. Bill spent his junior year, the third of his five year civil engineering-economics program, as an exchange student at the ETH in Zurich, Switzerland. Returning to the Union sport scene in 1967-68, Bill enjoyed a good junior year on the court, but it was cut six games short by a skiing accident. Neidel carried the brunt of the scoring lead, and after a slow start which was probably due to the one-year layoff, he finished with a 13.3 average, and also collected one ECAC weekly award for his performance in a near-upset of Williams. Bill compiled a 3-1 mark in baseball and sported a fine 2.62 ERA as the Garnet made a strong run for a tourney bid with a 9-2 mark. Basketball Greatness The height of Bill Neidel's achievements came in this year's basketball season. Neidel was largely responsible for taking an injury and dissension-ridden team to a respectable 1 Q , 11 season. Doing a complete job, which included scoring from all over the court and sharing the rebounding load with Bill Boemke, Neidel dominated many games that Union played, and when he suffered through a sub-par night the Garnet simply could not win. Bill averaged 21.7 points per game and 10.1 rebounds while shooting a fine 50.6% from the floor. · Bill scored a season-high of 30 against Norwich and made two ECAC weekly teams. The 6-5 senior established one Garnet record (30 consecutive free throws) and tied another ( 184 field goals in a season). Coach Schmid summed up Bill's contribution this year by saying, \he cannot be replaced by any single individual.\ In the baseball season just completed, Neidel had a 4-2 mark, which might have been better with stronger hitting behind him. In 53 innings this season, Bill allowed only five earned runs for an ERA of 0.85. The tall righthander pitched tWO · shutouts, including a 4-0 win over ath-rivai Williams. In addition to his strong Concordy Athlete of the Year Bill Neidel in action this spring on Alexander Field. Although his record was only 4-2, he compiled an outstanding O . S2 ERA, including two shutouts. pitching, Bill · became a timely hitter this seas(}n, and batted .250, driving in the winning run in the 3-1 win over RPI. In commenting on Neidel, Coach Art Lawrence s.:tated that he \had coached better pitchers, but none with better control or coolness under fire_\ In the last two years, Bill walked only eleven batters. Leads ()tilers In addition to his ath'letic achievements, Bill Neidel was elected to Tau Beta Pi, the national engineering honor society, and received the Warner King engineering prize. His other activities include th.e presidency of Delta Phi, the Delpltics, and Block U, as well as membership on the IFC Judicial Board. Upon graduation, Bill will 'begin employment at Kodak in Rochester as an industrial engineer. The success story of Bill Neidel at Union College has been the result · Of continuing improvement in all areas of the sports in whic:h he competed. The improvement may not have been due to improved coordination blLt to the maturity and self-confidence that were very evident in Neidel's superior performances in his exceptional senior year. Bill has established himself as o::ne· gf Union's all-time great athletes, and · is truly deserving of the third Concordiensis Athlete of the Year Award. JAY BILLIARD LOUNGE 167 JAY ST. SPECIAL RA 166 FOR COlLEGE STUDENTS Bring Y ~ur Dates Free Parking In Rear D : EWITT'S C.teteda and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages 11 8- 120 JAY STR££T 1 ake Dtrfch Singles Titles Don Hovey and. J a~k Friers won titles as the Dutch Classic l\ Singles League comJ)leted its first season Monday night. Hovey, the · Division A winner e11tered the final night with a four-point lead over · Al Case and clinched his title with a 237-192 victory over ·Case in · ~ · the first game of tlre position-round match. ~ Friers won the B division title with a 167-160 · win over Larry i ] Ray in a special playoffafter the pair ended the season with 22 wins , ((' each. ~· · Hovey began t:he final night by dropping a 2-1 decision to Gary r ' ' Prevost. Hovey r()lled : a 221-608, but was bested by Prevost, who hit ,; 236-638. Prevost, . averaging 193, finished thiJ:d in the final ,{ standings, as he claimed a 2-1 win over Bruce North.tup in the position round. Needing just one victory in his position round match, Hovey won the first game before Case seal · ed' down second place by winning 2l.4·- ' 1 ' 83 and 215-214 in the remaining games to .~~ finish with a 196 average, and an 18* - 11 * record, one point . ~ ;: .. 1 behind Hovey. The latter compiled a 199 average, the highest mark in Union bowling hi£tmy. In ather A Divisioa action~ Pete Van Lund, who finished sixth in ~1 the final standings, . r0lled a 176, 245, 235-656 triple for the second 1 1 highest series of the year. AI Case rolled a 675 for the year's high, I , 1 while Van Lund's 268 vtas the high single. 'j In the B Division, Ed Fowler finished with a 20-10 mark for third '': 1 place, while Rich Eng 'Would up in the fourth spot. I.J· The league will! :hold its awards banquet at the boulevard Bowl I. Bar on Thursday, June 5, at 7:30p.m. 4 1~ I ' If your goal is a summer spent handsomely, shoot in for a look at our sportswear assortments. The styling throughout: is . on target, the quality up to our usual high sta ndlards ~nd the selection, the biggest in town. Aim for a complete outfitting! . w~e ~quirr ~bnp 420 STATE STREET, 377-3061 © r1 J .J . r:~ ti ij · ~ t 1 ·~ tJ r ~ i I ;1 ~ ~ ·~ ij .q l l I. ~ J .~ [ • 1 •l • /. • ] I

