\Imagination is more important than knowledge. \ -Albert Einstein News: SAC Diversifies Party Scene hosts havin_g to register. In addi- tion, Theme Houses and dubs can register for parties without the in- surance money, provided they have a third party vendor. \Of course, no one has to register for a party if there is no alcohol being served. But if there will be, this third party vendor must agree to check identification before. serving alcohol to anyone,\ explains Dean Alford. Successful Psychic Fair Page4 Opinions: Bash on Asian Persuasion Page 8 World News: Austria at Odds With E.U. by Jeff Silver Staf!Wtiter A routine has been set here at Union: every Friday and Saturday · night, students travel across cam- pus to different Greek fraternities to drink and dance the night away. The town of Schenectady offers limited altemati ves and students without cars remain on. campus all weekend, Between 10 PM and 2 AM every weekend, students move in herds from one f~;atemity to another in search of a good time. Many students complain about the . lack of d:ifferent social options that the college offers for them on week- ends. The Union College Student Activities Conunittee (SAC) has recently attempted to provide other choices for students tltrough their new U2K program. One· alternative to fraternities is t() let other groups and clubs hold parties and social events on Union's campus. ''Originally, if a Greek house or any other house had a party with over twenty . . guests and the availability of alco- h()l, they had to register with the college,\ says Dean Frederick Alford, a member of the SAC. 1: 't..,\\\\'~\\,...,..,.....,..,.~,_,..,.,..,.,,.,..,....,....,,..,......~......,~··• \However organizations could only register for parties if they had $100 million of insurance to back them up. Greek houses could buy liza.betll Daigle/CP Wells Ho~tse will now be able to register for alcoholic events. this insurance from their national house, but there is obviously no way for a Theme House ox a club on campus to 'buy that kin..d of in- surance.\ The new party policy at Union increases the number of guests from twenty to fifty without the Alford continues, \This change in policy w:ill allow Theme Houses to have parties, which will give stu- dents a different option than go~ ing to fraternity parties.\ In addi- tion, c tubs can now reserve a space on campus, such as Old Chapel or the Upperclass Dining Hall, to have a party where alcohol is served to those of age. The SAC is a small committee made up ()f students and faculty, led by Professor Scott Scullion. According to Dean Alford, the committee was asked by President Hull to attempt to equalize social life on carnpus. In the last six months, the U2K effort produced several otber new ideas to improve the quality ofUnion's social life. Dean Alf~rd stated that the com- mittee was formed to \fmd ways to increase th~sociallife while reform- ing the Greek system on campus.\ He contends that the U2K effort is ClJmtinued on page 4 Dutchmen Tame Tigers Students Fight Police Brutality police officers muchmorethanpre- rape suspect and who they be- deserve forty-one bullets? The vious cases in tile Bronx. This data lieved was reaching for a gun,\ answers tc these questions and suggests that the move to Albany stated the defense :attorneys in an others will be imperative to estab- will be more l:leneficial tC) the de- interview with the Times Union, lishing a v~rdict for this trial. fendantsthanifthetrialhadstayed EveJI with this defense, the ques- On this past Monday, January in the Bronx. tion stillremains as to why the man 3, in hon()r of the opening day of ... <_·lnside.' i . ''. '·;•,. -... • • - ' ,: . ' - . ' Camptus-News_~-3 Opinions - 8 Pechnology - 11 Featu:ras .... 12 . . '· ... -·._: / ' . . . . : 'JtriJritiN:e'ws··.~···.i4::··. . . - - 0-'- .. A.-~&- .e;.-·.:.1'~:· .:- ~ -' ' by Kristen Zadourian Staff Writer One year ago, twenty-two year old West African Amadou Diallo was shot and killed by four offic- . ers in the hallway of his Bronx apartment building. Diallo was shot forty-one times, nineteen of which struck andki11edhirn. The four officers, Kenneth Boss, Sean Carroll, Edward McMellon, and Ri<:hard Murphy, have each been indicted on two counts of sec- ond degree murder and one count of reckless endangerment. Despite the shootiti.g occurring in the Bronx, the trial, which started this past Monday, is being held in Albany. According to the State Supreme Court Judge Joesph C. Teresi, the trial has been moved to Albany as a result of legal issues. However, there is a controversy . ·.:~~~~.,:~,J~') ::£::~~~::?.~~ · • Otlr _·!+**ail :, ·· ~:~:;:::!~i~:~:~st~~~~::~ latio:n in Albany it is ninety per- cent white. As reported to the Times Union, was shot forty-one times. the trial, tllere was a rally held in the defense attorneys \had te- Monday, January 31, was the Academy Park across from the quested the change of venue ar- opening of jury selection for tlle court house in Albany. Although guin.g that the pretrial publicity had trial, where five CUlt of the twelve it is unclear as to the exact number made a fair trial impossible.\ How- jurors were selected. Two of tile of supporters. it appears to be sev- ever, it has also been stJggested selected were African American era! hundred. Reverend AI that the trial was moved because women, and one ofthose women Sharpton. from the Bronx, played of the judge that would have taken will be the acting jury foreperson an integral part in planning and car- onthecaseintheBronx. Choosingthejuryisaveryimpor- rying out this event. Nine The acting judge is a female Af- tant process for l:Joth sides. bus loads of supporters from the rican American, and because of her The prosecutors will be most Bronx came up to stand outside the jurisdiction, if the trial were to be successful with a j:ury sensitive to court in support of f>iallo. moved she would not follow the their cause. They will be looking The rally was Intended to he case. for an African American intensive peaceful, and according to the The evidence at the stilrt of the jury, whereas the defense is look- Times Union, it was successfuL trial for the prosecutor was mostly ing for the opposite. Police were present all over the based on the medical autopsy and The prosecution has fo.rty- park, l:Jut were not needed to con- the police report stating that Diallo seven witnesses t() bring to trial if trol the crowds. People went to was not anned with any weapon. need be. Twenty-three of the wit- show their support for justice and Hewascarryihgabeeper,hiskeys nesses are civilians, including peace, n()t to start fights. and a wallet neighbors who lived in the buil<l- Eight students and three faculty However,thedefense is;col!Ilter- ing and heard the shots, and oth- members from the Union commu- arguing tha 1 the officers were ers are police officers who arrived nity were at the rally on Monday shocting because they felt Diallo on the scene. showing their support. Several was a possible danger to the build- Did Diallo show any potentia 1 other students who could not tnake Furthermore, in prev-ious years ing. \The officers felt justified in signs of danger to these officers, the rally were also participating last t.;...~~~.....,.~;;...;..~......._~..,..;:..~ Albany has tended to side with firing at a man they thought was a and if so was it grave enough to Conti11ued 011 ptlge 4

\Imagination is more important than knowledge.\ -Albert Einstein News: Successful Psychic Fair Page 4 Opinions: Bash on Asian Persuasion PageS World News: Austria at Odds With E.U. Page 12 Sports: Dutchmen Tame Tigers Page 18 Inside Campus News- 3 Opinions- 8 Technology- 11 Features - 12 WorldNews-14 A &E -16 Sports -18 Our E-mail concordy@ vJLunion.edu SAC Diversifies Party Scene by Jeff Silver Staff Writer A routine has been set here at Union: every Friday and Saturday night, students travel across cam- pus to different Greek fraterni~ies to drink and dame the night away. The town of Schenectady offers limited alternatives and students without cars remain on campus all weekend. Between 10 PM and 2 AM every weekend, students move in herds from one fraternity to another in se<trch of a good time. Many students complain about the lack of different social options that the college offers for them on week- ends. The Unioil College Student Activities Committee (SAC) has recently attempted to provide other choices for students through their new U2K program. One alternative to fraternities is to let other groups and clabs hold parties and social events on Union's camplls. \Originally if a Greek house ()f any other house had a party with over twenty guests and tile availability of alco- hol, they had to register with the college,\ says Dean Frederick Alford, a member of the SAC. \However or~anizations could only register f()rparties if they had $100 million (}f insurance to back them up. Greek houses could buy llizabeth Daigle/CP Wells House will now be a!Jle to register for alcoholic events. this insurance from their national house, but there is obviously 110 way for a Theme House or a c1 ub on campus to buy that kind ofjn- surance.\ The new party policy at Union increases the number of guests from twenty to fifty without the hosts having to register. In addi- tion, Theme Houses and clubs can register for parties without the m- surance money, prov1ded they have a third party vendor. \Of course, no one has to register for a party If there is no alcohol being served. But if there will be. this third party vendor must agree to check identification before servmg alcohol to any om.\ explains Dean Alford. Alford continue;, \This change in policy will allow Theme Houses to have parties, which will give stu- dents a different option than go- ing to fraternity parties \ In addi- tion, dubs can no\' reserve a spaL-e on campus, sue has Old Chapel or the lfpperc lass Dining Hall. to haw a party wherl\ ak<1hol is sen·ed tn those or age. The SAC is a srnall committee made up of student-; and faculty. led by Proft>ss0r Scott Scullion According to Dean Alford. the committee was asked by President Hull to attempt to equalize social life on campus. In the last six months, the U2K effort produced several other new ideas to improve the quality ofUmon 's social life. Dean Alford stated that the com- mittee was formed to \find ways to increase the social life while reform- ing the Greek system on campus.\ He contends that the U2K effort is Co11tinued on page 4 Students Fight Police Brutality police officers much more than Jllre- rape suspect and who they be- deserw forty-one bullets'> The viouscase&inthcBro!lX. Thisdlata lieved was reaching for a gun,\ <1nswers to the~e questions and suggests that the move to Albany stated the defense attorneys in an others will be imperative to estab- by Kristen Zadourian Staff Writer One year ago, twenty-two year old West African Amadou Diallo was shot and killed by four offic- ers in the hallway of his Bronx apartment building. DialJo was shot forty-one times, nineteen of which struck a.nd killed him. \The four officers, Kenneth Boss, Sean Carroll, Edward McMellon, and Richard Murphy, have each been indicted on two counts of sec- ond degree murder and one count of reckless en<iangerment. Despite the shootiti.g occurring in the Bronx, tile trial, whichstaJ1ed this past Mon<iay, is being lleld in Albany. According to the State Supreme Court Judge Joesph C. Teresi, the trial has been moved to Albany as a result of legal issues. However, fhere is a controversy as to why the trial was actually moved. According to an article written in the Times Union, the population in the Bronx is sixty-five percent non-white, and the popu- lation in Albany it is ninety per- cent white. will be m()re beneficial to the ode- interview with the Times Union. lishing a verdict for this trial. fendants titan if the trial had sta)·cd Even with this defense. the ques- On this past :Vkll1day. January in the BrollX. tion still remains as to why the man 3. in honor of the opening day of As reported to the Times Union, was shot forty-one times. the trial, there was a rally held m the defense attorneys \had re· Monday, January 31. was the Academy Park across from the quested th.e change of venue ar- opening of jury selection for the murt house in Aloany. Although guing that the pretrial publicity !lad trial, where five out of the twelve it is unclear as to the exact number made a fair trial impossible.\ How- jurors were selected Two of the of supporters. it appear..; to he sev- ever, it has also been sugge!ite<i selected were African American eri.l 1 hundred Reverend A I that the trial was moved beca us.c women, and one of those women Sharpton. from the Bronx. played of the judge that would have talk en will be the acting jury foreperson. an integra I part in r Ianning amh·ar- onthecaseintheBronx. Choosingthejuryisaveryimpor- rying out this event Nine The acti.ngjudge is a female Af- tant process for both sides. bus loads of supporters from the rican American, and because ofher The prosecutors will be most Bronx came up to stand outside the jurisdictiOon, if the trial were to be successful with a jury sensitive to court in support ofDiallo. moved she would not follow the their cause. They will be looking The rally was mtended to ht' case. for an African American intensive peacefuL and according to the The evidence at the start of the jury, whereas the defense is look- Times l'nfon, it was successful trial for the prosecutor was mO>stly ing for the opposite. Pol ice were present all over the based on the medical autopsy and The prosecution has forty- park but were not needed to con- the police Feport stating that Di.allo seven witnesses to bring to trial if trol the crowds. People went to was not armed with any weapon. need be. Twenty-three of the wit- show their support for justice and Hewascarryingabeeper,hiskeys nesses are civilians, including peace. not to stai1 fights and a wallet. neighbors who lived in the build- Eight students and three faculty However, the defense is counter- ing and heard the shots, and oth- members from the l '111on comma- arguing that the officers \were ers are police officers who arrived nity were at the rally on \1onday shooting because they felt Diiallo on the scene. showing their support. Several was a possible danger to the build- Did Diallo show any potential other students who could not make Furthermore, in previous years in g. \The officers felt justified m signs of danger to these officers, the rally were also participating last Albany has tended to side with firing at a. man they thought Y.Jas a and if so was it grave enough to Contiltueil on page 4

Ca us Life Security Incident Report Sunday, January 23 - Satu.rday, January 29 Su111la:y, January 23, 2000: Substance Abuse Substance Abuse/Illness SocialFolicy Violation Criminal Mischief Fire .Alarm Larcelly LifeSa.fety Violation Parking/Driving Violations Moll day, January 24, 2000: Life Safety Violation Safe.ty Hazard Disorderly Conduct Larcell:y Criminal Mischief Tuesday, January 25. 2008: Lnceny Larceny W~!lncsday, January 26. 2 .. 00: Ha.r~ssment Tlturs<lay, January 27,2000: Criminal Mischief Dis()rderly Conduct Larc-eny Larc-eny Fire Alarm Reckless Endangerment Fri<fay, January 28. 2000: Har~ssment Parking/Driving Violation FireAlann Fire Alarm Trespass Fire Alann Fire Alarm Satur<lay, January 29, 20GO: Reckless Driving 'Una·utltorized use of Motor Vehicle/ Arrest 2:50am Psi Upsilon. Suspect identified. Conduct Charges filed. 2:30am West College. Excessive use of alcohol Conduct Charges Filed. 2:50am Psi Upsilon. Violation of Social Policy. Conduct Charges Fikd. 4:45amDavidsonHa11. Various vandalism. 11 :OOam Hale House. Accidental cause from cooking. 12:50pmDiningServices. Thdtofbeerkeg. Found. Returned. 4:36pm Sigma Phi. Life safety Violation. 8:53ptnAlexanderLane. Violations issued. 8:02am Potter House. Life Safety Violation issued. 8:02am Potter house. Conduct Charges filed. 8:24am S&E. Tampering with lab rooms. 8:41am Davidson Hall Theft ofa pair of boots. 11: 15am Lamont Parking lot. Vandalism to vehicle. I 2:40pm S&E. Theftof electronic balance. 1:OOpm S&E. Theft of electronic balance. 3: 1 OpmS&E. Graffiti written in restroom. 1 :OOamSchaffer Library. Vandalism to chairs. 4:20amS&E. Tampering to cooler/lab areas. 8:45am Hickok House. Theft of ski jacket 11 :21 am S&E. Theftof employee tools. 6:40pm Rathskeller. Accidentalcause from cooldlig. 7:2lptnNorth Entry Road. Suspedidentified. ConductCharges Filed. 6:00am Harassment of employee. Suspects identified. Conduct Charges filed. 11 :OOam North Terrace Parking area. Suspect identified. Conduct Ch~rges filed. 12:29pm Rathskeller. Accidental cause from cooking. 12:40pm301 SewardPlace. Equipmentmalfunction. 1:30pm Boathouse. Person advised of private property status. 6:1 OpmRathskeller. Accidental cause from cooking. 8:33pm219 Seward place. Accidental cause from cooking. 1 :1 Oam Lenox Road area. Suspect identified. Conduct Charges Filed. 2:34am Raymond Potter lot. Suspect identified and arrested. Student For·um Notes JanuaryZ«i, 2000. Call to Order: 7:03PM Officer Reports: VP of Administration (Christy Weafer)-T'hree club proposals to ·be voted on: Wom~ll's Soccer Club (club statuswith.fitnding), Yes: 16113, No: 0, Abstain: l-clubpasses; Photography Club, 'w'es: 16 1/3, No: 0, Abstain: 1- club passes; Roteract Club, Yes: 13; No: O,.Ab~tairr: 2-clubpasses VP of FinaQce (Brian Roache)-Three finamoe proposals to be voted on: SAE {$2,545), Yes~ 15 1/3, No: 0, Abstain: L \.funding passes~ Formula l ($2,200)-; Yes: IS 1/3, No: 0, Abstain: 1-fundlngpasses; Coffeehot~se ($1 ,550)/{es: 16 1/3, No: 0, Abstain: 1-fu.ndiing passes; finance committee working on mending/ securing any f1,1rther nuisappropriati on of funds VP of <:AMpus Life (Paul Stewart-Stand)-Party in Old Chapel ( 1/26) with FIJI and GAMma Phi; Fri., 1128-Psychic fakrin Old Chapel; Sat., l/29-Band, Red Light District in Old Chapel; Winter Carnival(214-2/5)•casino night, ice carving,fonnal dance VP of UC (Danette Slevinski)-Nothingto teport VP of Multh:ultural Affairs (Debbie PellLsh)-Bulletin board outside multicultural room fot organizations to post events{RCC); workfngon multicultural celebration in Februat:y Trustees!(Erin Aloan in A. Markowski's ~t.&sence)-Working on email newsletter to trustees (U2K, x6000 phone iitne;.etc.); .trustee meeting: 2/18-2/ 19 IFC (Tc.m McKinney)-Nothing to report PanHel (Meghan O'Keefe)-Nothing to rewort THC (lan Eletz)-Nothing to report Class of 2()1)0 (Karen DeVito)-Ballots posted next week in deciding senior class gift Class of ~001 (Steve Schuler)-Nothing to report Class of 2«102 (Julie Wittekind)- In midst·tnf candy taffle sale (RCC) Classof2003 (Pooja Kothari)-Flower sale; commemorating Valentine• s Day, begi11ning next week in RCC Committee Reports: SAC (JeD Caruso)- Will look at SAC alcohl(i[ policy in new business Old Bus.iness: U2K Committee- Will reconsider/discuss U!JC issue(s) when forum receives proposal from committee; will offer mature.sttggestions ,in evaluating proposal 6000 Phone Line-Winn met with Bill Sicki~ge~to discuss beginning possible implementation of new line/new person to atn~wer in coming calls, taking some btuilen off security New Business: SAC's Alcohol Policy- Will .allow other orgamizations, in addition to Greeks, to host parties serving alcoholic beverages :[at the expense of a third party vendor; f()TUm motions to add to proposal: 111aximum capacity at registered parties w.illnot exceed fire exit code for that particular building at which the party is taking place (somewhat different phrasing from 'vhat's in proposal itself) Security lssues(Sgt. Bob Tomeck)-Union Jl..v:e. Gate: forum will write letter to Unio[l cAMpus planner in reference to trae need for a purchase of better lighting t() illuminate corresponding area(s);. sttldent priority is main objecttve; Trolley-not getting much attention, need suggestions on how to improve system (better scheduling, installing beeper s:ystem for off-cAMpus requests, designated stops, publicity, radio signals to let person know when trolley is arriving, etc.); bottom line is perception-gefl: s:tudents' attention by way of vividness and trolley should be better off Ar~nouncements: Napster is back on Motion to Ad n1ed at 8:33PM Announcements Particpate \in the Annual Wintel' Carnival Casino Night starts Frid<ly night at 9 PM in Old \If your vagina could talk:!' what would it say?\ Come to the Vagiua Mouolou~:es Tile Campus Safety department responded to the followint: calls for Monday, Febt'llary 14 1 PM in Old Chapel service during the period from September 1, 1999 through December f----------~--------- 911 ~Emergency phone/blue light 30 911-Misdial 45 Assist f() Motorist 18 An inial 7 Assault 1 Bias Related Incidents 2 Crimimal MischiefNandalism 42 Detail Assignments 21 Disorderly Conduct 22 Equipment Malfunction 15 FireAl~rm 43 FireEq11ipment Trouble 13 Harassm~nt/ Aggravated 6 Harassment/Simple 5 lllllCSS 11 Injury 106 Intrusion Alarm 48 Keys-lostlstolenldamaged 9 LifeSafety Violations 10 Lockllllt-Rooms 3 Loi te ri11g/begging 5 LostfF()und ProperfY 6 ) 31, 1999: Miscellaneous Motor Vehicle Accideot PD AI A Noise Complaint Off Campus Incidents Property Checks Property Damage Parking/Driving Violations Public Lewdness Safety Hazards Safety Officers Report Security Hazards Student Relations/ Assist Substance Abuse-Alcohol Substance Abuse-Drugs Suspicious Persons Tamper Alarm Theft Trespass Unauthorized Entry Weapons Total Calls For Service 73 9 2 4 6 17 6 3 18 21 13 13 15 10 10 5 29 11 11 1 752 Unicm College Undergraduate Summer Research Fellowships Available Earn $2500 plus free ro<Jm at the Colleue. All applicants must have a faculty sponsor. Get information and applicati(JIIS at the Dean's Office SlOO Science Center Applications due March 1. Ca1 I In wed dent little nig;h Fr lc,>we the\: Unic out.f nearl Alth a pro ing~: arec brinl Wee earn] OJ the f CCH] mitt! temi Tl Old and1 twer the c The1 Sien fore M Delt pret1 nigh expf M that that duri 1 t 0 mer Hm new fror mer cere mg Pro whc nan aud and Buc ing Chi 1 Uni the1 the its we: Da~ yee mir GUI ecc sho to~ sim col Thl dat vot

Campus News C!11Utl;o:rbillnsis•February 3, 2000 • Page 3 NewforWRUC by .Jason Putorti Web master dio station. It truly does keep the spirit of C()llege radio alive and it has. done the best job in the area doing so according to Asher With the arrival ofthe year 2000 Nichols. Other area radio stations Social Options for Wednesday Nights came the 80ill anniversary of one of are much more high powered and \DJ &ob,\ while Hale House Din- Union College's most notable stu- professionaL Siena, for example, ning Services provided a bar for dentorganizati()ns, WRUC. bas a strict commercial hip-hop those of legal drinking age. The Wintt:r 200() has only seen the and rap format while RPI features turnout for the second gathering station's quality of programming NPR programming and runs a was als9 high based on the sue- improve under the new executive lOiOOO-watt transmitter off campus. cess of the party held during the board, headed by General Manager SUNY Albany also maintains a ra- previous week. Asher Nichols. Nichols told dio station and allofthese schools by Mary Felton Staff Writer In additio.!l to going out on the w~ekends, many of the Union stu- dent body like to venture out for a little socializing on Wednesday nights .. Frater:p.ities are currently notal- lowed to register for parties durjng the week. As a result, this forces Union students who wish to go out for a drink or socialize, to go to nearby bars offofUnion 's carnp1,1s. Although this does not seem to be aproblemm tenns of students driv- ing under the influence of alcoh9l, a recent attempt ha~ been made to bring another social alternative to Wednesday nights on Union's campus. On January 19, a party open to the entire Union community was co-sponsored by the Social Com- mittee and the ThetaDelta Chi fra- ternity. . The party took place inUnion's OldChapelanditbeganat lOPM andended at 1 AM. Students over twenty-one could buy drinks from the cash bar provided by Chet's, There were two disc jockeys from Siena College whoprovided music for dancing. Mark McKee, President of Theta Delta Chi, stated, \The party was pretty successful fora Wednesday night. The turnout was better than expected.\ vided a great opportunity te> have social gatherings of a \different tune.\ The idea for this type of social gathering,. which was the fust of its kind to be hetcl at Union, .came from both McKee .and Josh Dardashtian '01. Both Theta Delta Chi brothers were very eagerto pursue the idea of a campus-wide pa:rty held dur- ing the week. With the idea in n:rlnd, McKee and Darda&htian met with Program Assistants Hillary Olk '01 and Liz Sclnnidt '00 to dis- cuss the possibility of holding such an event for the campus. Not only was this first party a success, but a second one took place the followingweek on Janu~ ary 26. This second Old Chapel party was co-sp<msored by the Phi Garn.ma Delta fraternity, the Social Omnnittee and the Gamma Phi .Beta sorority. BraelinPantel 'Ol,aProgramAs- . sistant, responded positively to both parties which have taken place in Old Chapel. She com- mented, ~'The general idea [was to 1 have something to do on a Wednesday n.ight on campus.\ Pantel also mentioned, \Having a fraternity involved might increase the overall turnout.\ When asked if she thought this type of gathering might attempt to take the place of Greek parties on campus, Pantel replied that these parties \have no intention of tak- ing over the Greek System-yet it is a nice way to bring alcohol related events onto the campus.\ The second gathering featured Steve Flaherty '0 1, also a Pr<>- . Concordiensis h.ow,'\the execu.tiv~ run at a much higher power than gram Assistant, wanted toencour- board has done ar-~~~~~~~~~~--,Union's. age other groups or clubs on cam~ lot to improve the The FCC also pus to sp~nsor mid-week gather- quality.\ He cites \WRVC has looks more highly ings St1Ch as those tha,t have been . examples such- as. upon these held.sofar this tenn. These types . new policies and managed to pick schools when of social options are open to any- . disciplines put in h k • granting licenses. one ()n ,campus. place meant to Up t · e ran lng Having a broad- h The bene~t folrda flhratemhity to rhaise the bar for oif#2 ... ~'or great casting depart- . ost a party .tn 0 · C a pel as to t e D J s and to '.}• ment at the school dowiththeadditionofathirdparty show Union and COffege radio helps as well. vendor. Withathirdpartyvendor, Schenectadyalike Both WRUC and t t . . \ suchasChet'sorDiningServices, thatWRUCmeans S a lOllS. Concordiensis \i1 is not the fraternity providing . business. Many are completely the alcohol,\ said Flaherty. This people have told student-run orga- also means that security will not . him that the station has, indeed, nizations with almost zero faculty be checking up on these parties, \tome a long Vlay.\ involvement due to the lack ofre- nor willa fraternity need to use its This term the most popular 1a.ted departments, in the case of insurance.policy. shows are familiar ones to those Concordiellsis, Union has no jour- In terms of sponsoring a gather- who have tUJJ.ed in before. Hip Hop nalism department. Both are main- ing such as these, the school will 101 features the DJ of the fall term, 1ained by hard-working students provide publicity for the event, the F. Grullon, from 9-11 PM Wednes- putting in a whole lot of their time social space, food and/or drink. day nights. for little reward or compensation The party or group involved in the The eminent sexy call-in show <>ther than doing what they love. sponsorship ofthe,event will be in Love Lines with Brooke Barylick WRUC doesn't have the deep charge of decorations, finding a and Eugene Schultz is also very pockets of Siena and has a very disc jockey and some publicity as popular and has garnered a follow- <lifferent relationship with the fac- well ing even out into New England, ulty. It has been said that the ad- Flaherty also added that these Virginia and Tasmania due to the ministration really doesn't care events '\do not cost [Union] too availability of WRUC over the about the station and recently has much[money].\ Internet at http:l/wruc.union.edu. .gone as far as to label WRUC. \a These types of gatherings give The ever-enticing Barylick and students an opportunity to look witty Schultzareuguably the most towards attending on-campus popular and entertaining DJs at events during the week, rather .than Union and Nichols believes that searching for social opportunities the two \get the job done\ in terms elsewhere. of creating a dynamic and drawing nuisance.\ McKee also reiterated the point that the Deans had made it clear that no parties were to take place during the week, and that this pro- ---~~~~~~-~~~~-~~--~~~~~~-~~~~~---~~~---'-! in a listener base. Their show can The I 00-watt transmitter is lo- cated on the roof of the four-story Reamer center. Anything more powerful woald require an off cam- pus plot of land and a significant expense for a school as small as Union. The quality ofthe program- ming would have to be impeccable as well for the FCC to grant WRUC' an expansion. There is !>Orne le- niency for small schools with an equivalent license in terms of tech- nical problems, dead air, and other mistakes but with a higher wattage comes a much lower tolerance for these anomalies by the FCC. Thurston House Warming ~ · · · · . The house has three spacious nearly 500 caves m Dunhuang. by Pro essor Bruce Reynolds triples and three doubles. Fifteen These caves were where glorious Contributing Writer students are currently enjoying Buddhist paintings and statuary On Wednesday, January 12, :the huge rooms, ten-foot ceilings, el- were created. members and friends of Thurston egantwoodenmoldings, andhard- AlongwithHistoryandPolitical House formally inaugurated their wood floors. The house also of- Science, Professor Thurston new home (on Lenox Road, across fers fireplaces in both the living taught Asian Art at Union, and had from Theta Delta Chi). Various room and the study, a fuLl kitchen, studied the Dunhaung paintings members and guests made some and vast woods and gardens. for years. His intimate knowledge ceremonial remarks, a plaque nam- To celebrate all this, the House of the material, and the brilliant ing the House was unveiled, and arranged a program that would slides, bmught the caves to life for Professor Donald Thurston, for bring Professor Thurston back to his audience. whom the house was named, enthralled audience with a: talk and slides about the Buddhist cave paillt- ings in Dunhuang, · China. Residents of Thurston House. Before the lecture, House co-Manag- ers Phil Cho and mf~mt>et's gratitude Professor 'T'h ..... ., .• ..,.... for creat- ing Union's East Asian Studies pro- gram. Professor Bruce (Econom- ics), who currently directs East Asian Studies, then Thurston House is Un.ion' s Asia-interest theme dorm. It spent tl1e flrst three years ... its life in the sou.th· west ·corner of Davidson. Then last year, Union deter- mined that the college Guest House was not economical, and should be converted -~~-....,_-~--..,.-...--~----~~--- teamed up with Pro- to student housing. After discus- sions with Dean Alford's office, the college offered this new space to Thurston House. With some trepi~ dation, the Thurst()U membership voted to accept the offer. _ campus for a lecture and slide show. He recently returned from a trip along the famous Silk Ro?d (the trading route that cortnected an- cient China with Europe). The high point of his trip was to visit the fessor Thurston to unveil the com- memorative plaque naming the House. The plaque says \East Asia House\ in English and the three main East Asian languages: Chinese, Korean and Japanese. be picked up from 9-11 PM on Thursday nights. Primetime .Sports with David Brooks and DJ Book is also a popu- lar show that runs down the week- end intercollegiate sports action every Sunday night at 9-11 PM. The show features interviews with Union athletesand top-notch com- mentary. Other notable shows include Buenos Dias; an all-Latin show run by a twelve-year veteran ofWRUC, Jose Masil()tti. This show has a huge following in the area and picks up a four-hour slot from 9 AM-1 PM Saturday mornings. Another popular show is Brian Seltzer that features a wide variety of music and .regular call-in con- . tests from 3-5 PM Monday after- noons. Even Union professors can be heard over the Union airwaves with Blues Buzz fr<lm 1-3 AM Saturday momings and Dr. Kimmo's Jazz Brunch from 9-11 AM Sunday mornings. A writer for the Schenectady Daily Gazette, Bill Ackerbauer, ]licked up a show as well playing folk music froml-3 AM Friday m()mings. Clearly the strength in WRUC is its variety. Nearly every kind of music can ile found somewhere in the WRUC sd1edule posted on the station's web site, from Indian dance music to all live music to Goth to movie scores. WRUC is not your average ra- Despite the shortcomings, WRUC has managed to pick up the rankrng of#2 in the United States for great college radio stations, bested by only Emerson College. Union's radio station is featured in the 2000 Edition of The 311 Best Colleges from the Princeton Re- l'iew and is ill fact currently the only ranked component of the college. This can onJy show that it's not the broadcast department or the J>rofessionals behind the station, it is the haTcl work of the students that work to make it the best it can be. Nichols explains that there have been \on and off years,\ having been involved with the station for four years, but he feels this yeu the station is stronger ihan ever. Nichols and the rest of the execu- tive boarcl will be winding down their duties soon as elections for a new board will take place during the eighth week of the wintertenn. Nichols closed his remarks by saying, .. I love this place [and] it's a worthy ca.use.\ WRUCison 89.7FM.

Page 4 • February 3, 2000 • o.t.ill't.Co:rbi~nsis Campus News Hazing Workshop Psychic Readings by Laur~ ~otton Contributing Writer ,In 1990, at Western Illinois Uni- versity, young Nicholas Habe11 died dllring a lacr<Jsse club drink- ing initiation. In a wooded area neat campus, the rookies of the University's lacrosse team were forced to drink alcohol and then brought back to campus. Haben died presumably fmm alcohol poi- soning in his donn room shortLy after the initiation. The school handed dov. n a lenient punishment hy s0nt~tKing hvchc members of tht' lac rossc team to community .,t'r\'IC·L' on campus. I!Jcidents such as this occur t':ll'h ;ear at L\olkgcs at1J unin:rsi- ti•::-. 11atimm ide. Hazing is not only J ()fL'L\l sy~km probh:m, it i~ <.~ ~u­ ,:idJI i~~m:. At 11mst school~. though unbt;:- ktlt '·1\U~t tu mall). spurb !t:aHb ;uc Jml.J~,guilty of initiating, mcmbi.:'JS \\ ith sw:h bizarre tiluals involving hazing.. Sadly, in many cases, the end result has been death or seri- ous physical and psychological hann. ft i:, vital tltat students k.no w abuutsu~.:h occurrences so tha-t we c<.~n prevent fatalities and oth(!r consequences from happening in the future. This past Tuesday night, the sis- tersofSigmaDeltaTau, inconjun.c- lton with the Pan Hellenic Council, presented a workshop-in the Ricl!- mond basement dedicated to a<i- dressing these particular cons.e- quences of hazing. The workshop was also designed to help people understand and dispel any mytlls concerning acts of hazing. The sisters frrstpresented Union College's definiti<Jn of hazing. A.c- cordin,g to New Y~rk State Law a11d the College's definition, hazing is \any action taken ()r situation cre- ated mtent10nally whether on or off campus to pro<iuce mental or physical discomf()ft, embarrass- metlt harassment:, health, safety, or welfare on a person.\ There are many activities within these parameters that can be con- sidered hazing, ranging from forced participation in art activity that may bring about physical harm 0n a person to subjecting a persol) to cruel and unusual psychologi- cal conditioos. Six sisters presented several news headlines from :hazing inci- dents at other colleges gone awry. The headlines featured examples from small and large schools within · both the Greek system and colle- giate athletic associations nation- · wide. Hazing occurs evetywhere from small liberal arts schools to large state universities. Union College has adtlpkd a zero tolerance policy in accordance with New York Statt La\v and for the well being of its students. The Greek systen1 at UniunCoJ- lege, a ad t l1e sororities in partiw- lar, have made every effort to changt: tht: new membt:r initiation period, abu known as a pledgr period, so that activities do not in- volve anything that could be con- sidered hazing. Sigma De Ita Tau is committed to breaking the cycle that hazing and pledge periods have been known to follow. The sisters who spoke at Tuesday's workshop also ex- plained the goals of a pledge pe- riod and how these could be achieved wirhout hazing_ Hazing has been a forceful way of creat- ing unity within a pledge class and instilling a sense of membership required f()r initiation to a particu- lar team, group, or Greek organiza- tion. Central to any pledge period of an organization shollld be schol~ arship, a sense of membership, unity withJn both the organization and its chapters, and an education of the hist(;)ry of that organization. Sigma Delta Tau, along with the entire Greek community at Union College, is committed to eradicat- ing any traditions from the pledge periods that involve hazing of any kind, as Dean Alford explained at Tuesday night's workshop. by Hillary Olk Contributing Writer The soda:! conunittee demon-- strated their creative talent on Sat- urday nigbt by bringing the Psy- chic Fair to Union college again.this year. The entrance of Old Chapel was covered with a colorful cur- tain withpink. beaded strings. Ka- leidoscopic tapestries separated the psychics which cre- ated privacy for each per- son that received a read- ing. Sweet smel H candles burned on th tables ~omplemented the flavorfu 1 scent of san- dalwood incense. Florescent glow-in-the- dark stars were randomly placed on tbe tables and 1v:alls. some were taken · h.omc by students as sou- venirs. Students arrived early for the 7 PM event. and some lingered for a second reading after the event closed at 12 AM. Program assistant Steve · Flaherty stated, \We had more psychics this year and they were busy the whole time. They were to the palm reader seemed to be- lieve that he was the tnQist interest- ing and convincing psrchic in at- tendance. Excited student~ tlla.\t departed from his dimly lit alcov-e were ex- cited to share with ilteir friends the entirety of their future accordi:ng to the lines on their hands. The psychics did seem to be professional,. however some stu- dents were not plea;sed with thea results. 011e student sa.id that he:t i() talk with a psychic still enjoyed ike casual atmosphere, talking with Cither students while the soft back- grQtmd music by Enya set an ap- JrO:Priate tone f()r t:he event As stUdents waited for theirtum, tiley enjoyed a variety of delicious herbal teas providedbytbe Coffee House. The S()cial Committee is now working hard to get things in order for the Winter Carnival this week- end. The weekendwillopenonFri~ Palm-reader, Yifma:z teels the]tAtt.~re to Union students. . very professional and stu---~--~-_._..--~---~------~-------­ dents were here early and left late.\ reading was \totally inaoccurate an.<! d.ay at9PM in Old Chapel for gam- The thirty students that showed fake,\ while anotlter came away 1>1ing and socializing at C!lsino up early for the event enjoyed fromthet:lble in tears afteranernD· 11ight where members of the stu- drawing with crayons on tables tionalreading. Some stlldents were <lent forum will serve as dealers. covered with paper while waiting skeptical about tile psychics while Students will be given raffle tick- for the psychics to start their reacl- ot.b.ers were finn believ-ers. ets at the door and have an oppor- ings. Many of those ia ~ttendanc:e !Unity to winprizes at random draw- The ps:ychics offered a choice wereforcedtowaitar()undforover ings during tbe night. of tarot card, palm readings, and an hour because o:fthe event's sue- From 1 PM to 5 PM on Saturday numemlogy. The readings ranged cess. there will be an ice sculpture con- from ten to twenty minutes. Many Anotber excited .student said test as well as a show in the Nott. excited students shared their that she had always been interested This show will include Union's mixedfeelings on the validity an<i in getting a reading for fun, but Vias student grou:PS such as the Dutch individuality of the readings. Jun~ not willi11g to pay for~ reading. Pipers, I<iol Minds, and a drum per- ior Erin Aloan said her tarot car<i The S()cial Committee was ex- f<Jrmance from the members ofKA. reading was \fake but entertain- tremely pleased vvitnthe turnoJI.t; All acts start at 2 PM. The week- mg. It was just fun to see what they it proved to be oneof the most sue- .end will end with a winter formal in would say.\' cessful events this. ten:n. Upperclass Dining Hall on Satur- In general, students who went Those students wh() <iid not care day night. SAC Update Amad~.!lndn~!w~!!lo Rallies ... continued from page I not trying to take away Greek life, just to invite students to investi- gate l)ther ways to spend their time. The U2K group bas decided that this \Vill be the last year that fresh- men will be eligible to pledge a greek organization. Starting next year, ()nly upperclassmen canmsh and pledge. \Union has histori- cally depended on the Greeks to provide a social life,\ says Alfo.rd. \These new policies aim to give other social groups a chance, while making the Greeks a little less domi- nant.'' Students are reacting in differ- ent ways to the new policy fmm tile SAC. Many Greek brothers do not see why the social life needs to be expanded.. Others believe that tbis policy will help diversify social life. \I do tltink that the Greek system dominates our social ltves, '' says Freshman Ben Faino. \You cannot go out to the same houses every weekend with()ut week in efforts to alert the campus education is necessny to end po· eventually getting bored. lfl nad of the events as well. lice brutality. Not everyone is more options on the weekends, I In coalition with The Capital Re- aware or believes th.at these inc::i- would definitely take advantage of gion Justice for Diallo Committee, dents occtrr. Education will gain them_ Maybe the school can offer several activist groups gathered in support for her cause. different overnight trips to New the park to support the cause of WhenMoorewasa:;kedheropm- y ork Ciry, Boston, {)r Montreal. justice. According to Professor ion on the rallies atld. the case :ill That would give students a change A. T. Miller, \One of the purposes general, she respo11ded, \It is a t~t­ of scenery and a refreshing break\ was to sltow the solidarity between rible thing what hi!ppened 'to• Sarah Lewis, als() a freslunan, . the different groups, proving that Diallo, a11d every time somethin!; does not think that anyone will go · they can all work for social justice like this happens it seems like ital- to non-Greek parties on campus. together.\ ways gets swept 11nclef the tug ~f­ \The frats are dominant, but not in Cequyna Moore, a Union stu- ter the case is ovet Hop~fully t!Iis;. a negative way,\ claims Lewis. \'A dent, gave a speech to the crowds case will shed some light onto-tile: lot of students would like to in Academy Park on Monday. issue and we wilheeasparkfr()ll'l changes made around campus to · make Schenectady more of a col- lege town, with clubs and bars. In- stead of the committee planning different parties on campus, they should change its surroundings.,; When tnis new policy takes ef- fect, students can ex.pect to see more social choices on campus, · whether tney embrace these new options orremainatthe weekly fra- ternity parties remains to be seen. Moore ;s. speech centered on the aJl comrn1;1nities ancl especiallY\ issue of police brutality and how it within tile law toddbrutality at:)(l effects everyone. She emphasized corruption.,; the point that police brutality is As a result ofthis trial, Moore is happening everywhere whether we hoping to see a few things accorn- . see it or not. plished. First, Alb any does :tt.ot In addition, Moore pointed out have anindependentCivilianCorn- that the fight for justice should not plaint Review Board, wbich is re- diminisn at the end of the rally. This sponsible for inves.ti,gating i:nd- must be a year-round effort to en· defits of police brutality and cor- sure that these types of incidents ruption. The importaace ofthisn- do not happen agaih. Moore feels view b()atd would _be Jto take sorne power away from the police and place it in the hands of the public. Cities that have review boards as part of the police force are not ef- fective becausethey are still biased, according t<> Moore. Also, Moore stressed theimpor• tance of better training for police Officers often walk into jobs not knowing the community they are going to be protecting. Moore stressed that the job of an officer is to protect the community from criminals, not treat everyone in the community as a criminal. \Better training to kMw more about the community will lead to officers be- in~ more a part of the community iltstead of outsiders,\ commented Moore. There will be televised rallies at tne Academic Pad:. every Tuesday and Friday for the .remainder of the trial. Vh;it www.fi.gbtthepower:com for more inionnation, or call ( 518) 43 6- .5599. Ca L Wor and spor witt Plan Pres cam lain· cato staff clud rc;;po to.pi, SUIT' ity ( cati( Tl sore Bas~ ven (CB Sch~ for: 123( eas preg inN age1 preg reas tors nee< p the reas nan· moe self ture goi1 s tee1 Cro Cid baSI eld1 \'ch for: J Un ha\ an1 the pra j car sid on arc ha, sys cer len the rag ciz en1 ciz wi Sa th£ be' re1 va

CaJ:I)pus. News OillllQtt.bienais • F,ebrua . 3., 2000 • Pa e 5 Union Reaches Out to New Library Rules Understand Abortion bylhmnahGaw Stqj[Writer Most studCJnts at Union who have ever been in Schaffer Library have wanted to bring with them something to (]_uench the insatiable thirst brought on by studying. The old tenet held by the Library Ad, ministration was simply that no food or drink Q[ any kind was to be aU~wed in the building at any time. AsofFriday, January 28, Schaffer Library has. adopted a new policy concerning. tile presence of drinks in the building. tion acknowledged the desire of students to want to have water, coffee or iced tea while in the li- brary, studying hard for midterms. ••The Student Forum prepared a proposal and sent the request to President Hull, who agreed to it,\ said Molyneaux. by Jennifer Breen Contributing Writer Last Thl!rsday, January 2 7~ tne Women.'s Union, Seneca .Ho-11Se, and Protestant Campus Ministry sponsored a movie anddispus:si<Jn with teen peer-educators fr()ltl Planned Parenthood and GuYs,. Inc. Present were members of alltlrr-ee campus groups, Protestant Cllap- lain VicldBrooks-McDonald, edu- cators, nurses, administrators a:pd staff ftom Planned Parentb.ooli; in- eluding CEO Pa.ul Drisg~tla a.11d a rtporterfromthe Times Unio11. The topics of discussion were is:st1es surrounding abortion, accessibil- ity of contraception and sex edu- cation. The peer educators were spDn- sored by a Erant called Coillli:lunity Based Adolescent Pregnancy Pre- vention of New York State (CBAPP). This grant was gi·ven to Schenectady's most \at risk'~ Eareas for teen pregnancy, zip codes 12307; 12303, and 12304. Th(Sear- eas had the highest rate of teen pregnancies within recent stati:.stics in New YorkState. Oneinfour giFls ages flfteen through nintee11 are pregnant each year. This is the·rnain reason why the teen peer ed.uc.a- tors. are weH trained and mach needed in their communities. Planned Parenthood expla-ined the concept of \futuring\ as the reason why some girls get preg- mi.nt. Most kids do not have uole model and do not see thei:r own self-worthpresently or for the fu.- ture. Most do not see themselves going to college. Students from Union rnet the teens at Cinema 18 at the Crossgates Mall to see the novie Cider House Rules. The film is based on an orphanage run by a.n elderly doctor who loves :allof his ''children.\ The doctor also per- forms abortions, illegally, for women who request this service. Throughout the fihn, there is. one twenty-year-old orphan who has lived like the doctor's son and medi- c~l assistant for many years. The \son\ assists in deliveries, but !)attles internally about the moral- ity with abortion. He leaves the ()rphanage with a young couple who sought services from the doc- tor, but falls in love w.ith the young woman. On his way to a new and exciting life, the young man discov- ers himself. The movie, although not com- pletely about abortion, raises im- j)Oliant points for women engaged in an unwanted pregnancy. The discussion following the movie took place at Seneca House, .the Women's Issues theme house '()n Seward Place. Many issues were raisedduringthisdiscussion, ,\)ut the official topic was abortion. TI1ere were pro-life and pro-choice men and women at the discussion .but the issue that normally heats ap a debate l'ike this was not the main focus. Instead of focusing ()ll whether abortion is inherently right o.r wrong and whether \life\ is involved, the teens were inter- ested in the class issues surround- ing pregnancy and access to birth control Accordin,g to what was dis- cussed, most kids in the area have alack of sex education and often have sex because they are \bored.\ Often the parents are not teaching the kids about SID's, and gener- ally they do not have the proper knowledge of the diseases. One young woman, in reference to the film and society in general, com- mented that \not everyone is born with a silver spoon in her mouth and can afford to raise a baby by herself.\ These are the people who are most at risk of getting pregnant. A vicious cycle is created in which teens do not have access to birth contr()), or a proper education on sexuality, but continue to engage in sexllal activities anyway. The tragic result of this is pregnancy, most ()f the time. Wbentbe questi()n, \What does accessibility_ mean to you?\ was posed. Th.e answers coincided be~ tween the teens and the Union stu- dents .. Parental information and ac- ceptarnce, insurance, and money were ilnswers from both sides. A representative from Planned ' Parenthood demonstrated that all of us overlooked the obvious. \:Most people cannot get to a drug store, a doctor, or public health dinic because they do not have transp ertation.\ Economic status plays a major role v.Jhen it comes to abortion. Many educated people believe that they have all the answers to solve big problems. Many Union stu- dents learned that this is not the ~.:ase when they lt:a.med that their notiolls ofthe poor in the commu- nity are very different from Feality. Entering the discussion, most expected there to !be uneduc~ted kids taJking about their kids. Even those at Union who try to live with- out stereotypes are still implicit in being \privileged.\ The teens at the di:scussion were concerned about reproductive rights in our . community and in other countries. They were articuhtte, intelligent, and proud. As peer educators, the kids ill. their schools go to them with questi>Ons, concerns, and \to talk;.\ In tbeir communities, these teen- agers in Schenectady are leaders trying to end the vicious cycle of unwanted pregnancy and disease. Their task is complicated and in- tense, but they do it bravely and without questions; According to one member in at- tendance, \Talking with these teens was both enlightening and remarkable. These youngsters are chanr;ing the world.\ The new food and drink policy . Schaffer Library is· as follows. First o , all, no food is al-· lowed at any time. Now, drinks in spill- ~t>!:'%il.HJ>f.w':i'l<~ proof containers This compromise enables stu- dents to enjoy refreshment while spending tirne reading or doing homework ina clean, quiet place. Although drinks in certain con- tainers are now permitted, the li- brary staff stil1 hold strong to the policy that absolutely no food is are permitted but drinks in cans, bottles, paper cups, Styrofoam cups, glasses, or ce ramie cups cannot be taken into tile li- brary. There is a display located in the front lobby ofthe l:ii>rary Elizabeth Daigle/CP The library displays containers now allowed in the building. that gives students a visual repre- sentation of wbich types of con- tainers are alhwed to be brought into the library. Water bottles with a sport top are acceptable, but not the kinds that screw off. Plastic coffee mugs with lids, like the Union Enviro:mnental Studies reus- able mug, is allowed. These pennittable drink contain- ers are located to the left of the dis- play table with a universal check symbol, meaning \yes while the prohibited bvttles and cans are found to the right with the symbol for \no a circle with a line through it. Such a display helps to avoid confusion as to what is permitted and what is not. According to Cara Molyneaux, the Head of Access Services in Schaffer Library, the Administra- allowed. The presence of food at· tracts such creatures as mice, sil- verfish and ants, pesky animals that are hard to remove once they appear. Mold is als() a problem. Iffood or spilled drinks are left behind af- ter their owner leaves the library, mold can begin to grow in the books or on the shelves housing the books. If mice that have worked their way into the building cannot fmd any more food to feast on, they will attack the books and eat the glue found in their bind- ings. The new rules of the library are meant for the comfort of students and should be looked upon as a great compromise. Permittab le containers are al- lowed on all fl()ors. Trolley Seryice Disappoints Students ----------~· -- TomackemphasiZed,\Thetrol- havetonnprovethetrolleysystem. tlons on the Umon College pusstudentneedstobeptckedup. byGinaCampanelhl ley is not a safe option ina snow- Campus security realizes that the website. The students could simply page Staff Writer storm due to its wide shape and its trolley system is still in its devel- One idea p()sed by the Student the trolley driver from their home Atthe beginning ofJanuary, the Union College community may have thought that we were i.n for an incredibly mild winter, h()wever, the past two snowstorms have proved that theory false. As the student body know~, the campus rarely shuts down. Con- sidering the many inches of snow on the ground and on the cars aroun.d campus, many stu<lents have res.orted to the new ti:\olley system in order to get arouml. Re- cently; there have been some Jlrob- lems that have lead to a slo'-V-up :in the trolley routine. Again. many students were out- raged so they were poised t() ctiti- cize the new trolley, only for differ- ent reasons than they had ctiti- cized it in the past. In an intewiew with Bob Tomack of Ca:mpus Safety, Concordiensis disco--vered that the .trolley itself may 110thave been running, but it was prolll:ptly rep laced with Dne of the ol<hescort vans. llasic structure. In addition, the opmental stage and encourages F Clrum would result in a much with their house number and street streets on and around campus are students to voice their suggestions shorter waiting time at the various letter. Then, tile driver would come often the last streets to be plowed right to their h<>me to pick them up during and after a big storm. Even .. , and then return to its campus cir- when these roads in and around .....,n cuit. campus are plowed, they are often ~ 11 ~· •· .. ....,, This plan, which is still in the :t()O narrow to allow the trolley to creation period, would not only get by, forcing the trolley to drive reduce waiting time but it would inthemiddleoftheroad. This com- increase the safety of off campus bination creates a situation in pick-ups as well. which it is in the best interest of Other suggestions included for- the students and of campus .safety malizing the trolley stop areas. This to replace the trolley with a smaller, formalization would take the form more controllable minivan.\ of signs and possibly covered wait- When the college decided to ing areas resembling bus stops. purchase the new trolley they were Tomack does admit that the trolley well aware that it would not be a system still d()es have quite a few viable option in the snow. This is glitches to W()fk out, hut he feels the reason they are maintaining the ·~, strongly that ''once the probation- old escort vans. The discontinua- ary period is ()Ver, the trolley sys- tion of campus transportation in Elizabeth D:ai~:le/CP tern will be preferred to the old es- bad weather is not anew phenom- The Nott-A-B'us remained covered in snow this past weekend. cort.\ enon. In past years the escort sys- It will take time and effort to en- tern was also canceled in cases of sure that the trolley becomes the extreme weather. and ccmstructive criticisms. trolley stops. It was suggested that system that everyone hopes it will Tomack recently met with Stu- Students can make suggestionS the trolley shculd discontinue its be. Tomack would like to assure dent Forum to take any sugges- throlllgh their Student Forum rep- 'outer loop' and instead rely on a the campus community that \we tions that the student body may resentative or by posting ques- beeper to kllow when an ()ff-cam- are going to make it work.\

Page 6 • February 3, 2000 • ctrnnctn\lliensis Campus. News Wind Ensemble Poet Laureate on Campus by Professor Tim Olsen Contrfbuting Writer The Il1 Wind Ensemble, aVer- mont-based quartet, will perform Friday, February 4, at 8 PM in the Nott Memorial. The concert is the second in the \Bridges\ series sponsored by the De- partment Performing. Arts. Admis- sion is free to the Union community although there is Boyer on the dmms an<! percus\' sion. The group will be prese11ting a workshop on improvisati()n for all interested students on Friday ,Feb- ruary 4 from 3 :00 PM to 4:30 PM in Arts 313. For more information, call Pro- fessor Tim Olsen at 3 88-6563 or csy by MichaEl S.M~Guire Copy Editor more ofRobertPinskytheperson, ing, monotonous poems of both rather than Robert Pinsky the Poet free verse and rhymed poetry, and Laureate. that there are many wonderful, flow- At one p()int, in response to a ing poems ofeach variety as well. On Wednesday,. J anuaty 26, the question from the audience; Pinsky Pinsky mentioned that he does Poet Laureate of the UnitedStates recited a poem by Robert Frost, not practice any form oforganized spoke at the Nott Memorial. Rob- \Provide Provide,\ completely telfgion. When he was asked to ert Pinsky is a well-respected poet from memory. He spoke about how elaborate on this, he clearly did not and critic. Pinsky h.as written a he thinks that Frost was a greatly want to make an issue out of it, translation ofDante 's Inferno, sev- misunderstood poet, and that he saying that he was not trying to eral collections. of poetry and believes Frost was \a much nicer impress his views upon the mem\ · works of criticism, and was norni- person and a much angrier poet\ bers of the audience, b1,1t that he · nated for a Pulitzer P.rize. r------~~--~-~--. finds organized religion to be Pinsky came to read some of. ' restrictive. He did say, however, his own poetry as well as to \ .4 • • h that he \thinks about God .of- read from a collection he CO-' EJ.t one poznt ln t e . ten.\ edited, America,ns' Favorite' middle ol\ the reading·, During the reading, Pinsky Poems. 'J .·promotedAmericans 'Favorite Pinsky began by reading; tl member of the Poems. Thecollectioncontains · some of his own poems, which poems submitted by ordina1y . were well received by the au- audience got up to Aniericans as wen as the let- dience. · ters that they wrote explaining donation tor the general public. Members o,lthe Ill Wind Ensemble get ready to perform Friday. At one point in the middle leave • . Pinske,y stopped whythepoemis.theirfavorite. of his reading, a member ofthe reading· and He also promoted the favor- audience got up to leave.' ; ite poem project. He encour• The lll WindEnsemble uses con- ventional, homemade and '\found\ instruments to create an unusual variety of sonic textures, from·· sparsely ambient to richJy dense. The ensemble perfom1s on instru- ments from western and world mu- sic traditions, as well as home- made and \found\ instruments. email him at olsent@unionedu. Pinsky stopped reading and COtnmented that the aged Union College to have a Stay tuned for upcoming <Con- commented that the person favoritepoemreading,andnot certs in the \Bridges\ series. · was rude and asked why the perSOn WQS rude .•• \ just to have faculty and Stu- OnFriday, February 11 ftom L2:30 person couldn't have waited dentsread, but to accept read- PMtol:JOPMinMemorialChapel untilafterhewasfmishedread- · ings from cooks, pianist Max Lifchitz wiH perform ing the poem. He then beganL----~--..,....-..---------' grotmdskeepers and others. music of Latin America. The ad- the poem again. than people consider him to have The only rule should be that the mission is free. Later, Pinsky encouraged pe()ple been. poem not be written by the reader On Friday, February25 at 8:00PM who were standing in the back to Speaking about peetry in gen- or someone dose to the reader. The group includes John Levin on shawms, reedpipes, and end- blown flutes; Charlie Sclmeeweis playing trumpets, found objects and toy instrume11ts; Kevin Moreau playing the clarinet, shawms and the bagpip,e; and Eric in the Nott Memorial, multi-ethnic come forward where there were eral, Pinsky commentedthatpoetry This forces others to go out and jazz featuring Amy Plattaad Randy empty seats. He said it required a is a vocal, but not necessarily per- read poetry to find a favorite. Crafton will be performed. The great deal of poise to walk up to forming, art. When asked ifhe pre- Robert Pinsky's readings of po- event is free to the Union co.mmu- th:e front ·of a crowded room, but fers rhymed poetry or free verse, ems were often met with applause, nity with a suggested five-d()l1ar that he would continue to talk to he replied that he does not ~ccept and the Nott was packed. Overall, donation for general public. All are distract the audience. These asides a distinction between the two. He the event would have to be con- encouraged to attend. allowed the audi.ence to see a little said that there are plenty of bor- sidered .a success. Customer Sales Specialist FULL-TIME & PART-TIME OPPORTUNITIES Cohoes Savings Bank is se-eking highly moti\.-'ated individuals to f'J.l1 the role of Customer Sale:s Specialist throughout the Capital District. You will help increase customer loyalty by making ow customers feei import.ant! Need to enjoy helping people. PT1or customer service experience in financial or retail environment .. excellent math aptitude and some college exp-erience prefer red. Base salaiy, super benefits package including incentiv-e awards .. profit sharing~ and oppor- tunities for career- growth. Interested? Send your cov-er letter and resume to: Cohoes Savings Bank 60 Remsen Street Cohoes .. NY 12.047 -or fax to: 2.33-655 0 ATTN: HR EOE MJFN/0 WILL YOU BE GRADUATING WITH A BIOLOGY DEGREE AND NO JOB PROSPECTS? CONSIDERA CAREER IN CYTOTECHNOLOGY! Many high payingjob opportunities are avaialble in hospitals, commercial laboratories, and research for registered cytotechno logists. To be a cytotechnologist: a candidate needs a baccalaureate degree with 20 credit hours inbiology, 8 credit hours in chemistry, 3 credit hours in mathmati cs~ and a successful completion of a 11 month CAHEA accredited cytotechnology program. FOR INFORMATION! Albany Medica} College, School of Cytotechnology 47 New Scotland Ave.,. MC-81 Albany NY 12208 phone: (518) 262-3938 E-mail: Taylmj @mail.amc.edu Web Site: http://www.amc.edu Flights for Airtech Mexico/Caribean or Central America $229 Round-Trip Europe $169 One-Way Other Worldwide destinations CHEAP! . ONLY TERRORISTS GET YOU THERE CHEAPER! Book tickets on-line at www.airtech.com or 212-219-7000 A

Advertisements FRIDAY lCIE CAl~VltNG 9pm Old Chapel . . C!lmu:nr.bimsis • February 2, 2000 • Page 7 .... o .. · . . NIGHT SATURDAY 1-Spm Library Plaza l-4pm Nott Memorial Dutch Pipers Idol Minds Dance Team Garnet Minstrelles KA Drum Circle ' . . . --. •' '· .. ~. .. . . .. . . 9pm Campus Center

No Place To Play This past Saturday night there was an event put on in Old Chapel by the Program Assistants. The band The Red-Light District put on an entertaining performance for a total of eighteen students. The event, as advertised around campus by voice-mails and posters, was a failure. This is not the frrst time that such a concert held at Union College has yielded such results. At a previous Fall Fest, the band ~ne was hired to perform. Like the band this past Saturday night,. the concert was unsuc- cessful. The Concert Committee tried to hold two concerts last term, unfortunately both wer~ fmancial failures and attendance disappoint- ments. Questions arise because of the events. Who is ta blame? Is it the Concert Committee's fault? Is it the Program Assistants fault? Is it the students' fault for not attending? Where can the balme be placed? Union has no viable place to hold a concert. Our options axe limited to Cllet's, Old Chapel, the Field House, or in a fraternity house. Are any of • these social places adequate enough to host a band? Unforttmately we. do not have the proper facilities here at Union. * lt ,... (,~To()/liST, OJJ' ~141>7TI(E\b~~l )~9 IJ.l ~££& OF \'R. oTE &--£ ~~th·~ ~<Peri~~ X/,ff5 Siena College, which is just down the road from Union, is blessed to have the MAC. The MAC is a small arena perfect for a basketball game t.~:~~ as well as a place for top forty bands to play. This arena is one of the key 1 ~----~--------~--------~--------------~------~----~------------~~ reasons that Siena is able to book the many big name acts that they do. A • p • I • ht The lack of a place to perform is a hindrance for Union when it tries to . . sIan . . . e r sua s I 0 n . . n s I g. . . . . s bring in the groups that students want to see. It is safe to say that The Dave Mathews Band or Phish would not want to play in the field house. When the band Guster played here at Union, there comment was that· they were \forced to play in an acoustically horrible building.\ Plus they · rediculed of the giant net that hangs from the ceiling. What, then, is the answer for Union in terms of a facility for concerts? Should Union abandon its attempts to bring musical acts to the College? If the College decides not to renovate the current facilities or invest in new ones, what quality of band will they pursue. If the school intends to book the top forty bands, then it must provide the space required to host such events. These events will lead to the betterment of the school and the increased happiness of the student body. The administration claims that they want to diversify how stu- dents spend our free time. The administration contenually complain about the lack of a social alt~rnative to the Greek System. They strongly advo- cate the need for change and an increase in the variety of offerings. If this is truly what they want, then they must provide for the students a proper place in which to hold concerts and other such events. The renivation of Old Chapel was meant to create this type of social space, a place where events could be held. However, while the new Old Chapel .is nice. it is unsuited for professional concerts of any type due to the size. Fu.rthermore, the area is in pristine condition that will most certainly be tarnished by large scale events. If the administration decides that they do not want to provide the stlldent body with an appropriate venue, then Union should no longer be hiring bands to play. As things now stand, we are just wasting money. Every time we have a band like the Red-Light District, we spend eight htmdred dollars that c<>uld have been spent elsewhere. Eighteen stu- dents showing up for an event reflects poorly on the school as a whole. This cannot continue because we will continue to lose money. Union Dear Editor (OP/ED Page): After reading the first few install- ments of Philip Cho' s column, \Asian Persuasion\ I (as an Asian}was livid .. I toldmyselfthat this was just the random thoughts of a random guy at Union, who happens to be Asian. Granted, the column is a spew of incoherent thoughts, but I'm sure that the edi- tors at theConcordiensis have read worse. As I read more installments of \Asian Persuasion\ 1 cannot help but cringe at the garbage Cho was putting into hjs column. Cho does not wish to be criticized about the content ofbis column. How- ever, as an Asian-American, I take issue with Cho's use ofhis Asian heritage as both a scapegoat for his problems and an excuse to alienate himself from the rest of the world. Cho .insists on tacking on the word \Asian\ onto the title ofhis column. Seeing the W()rd \Asian\ attached to such mindless babble almost makes me ashamed to be Asian. Just because Philip Cho is Asian, why does he feel he has to label his meandering personal thoughts with \Asian\? For the most part, Cho's column has noth- ing to do with being Asian. In his articles, Cho merely alternates be- tween devoting exactly one sen- tence to the fact that he is Korean- American and indulging in an ob- noxious rant about how he can only find acceptance among his Korean-American community and Korean-American girlfriend. When Cho does attemptto offer insights on being Asian, he fails. Cho instead attaches his Korean heritage to statements that have no relevance to being Asian. In his most recentcol~Jmn, Cho states: \I fmd that generally I am a quiet per- son. However, that seems to change when I am with people I am close with and with people I am comfortable with. Maybe it's a Korean-American thing.\ The feel- ing of being more comfortable around peQple we know cannot be tied to a particular race. How could Cho possibly think only Korean- Americans feel this way? Another point Cho constantly mentions in his column is that people do not know the \real Philip Cho\. According to Cho, people who know the \real\ Cho makeup an exclusive club. To the rest of us, he is just playing a part. In writ- ing articles that constantly point out that he is playing a role, Gho only demonstrates that he does care about what people think of him In the conclusion of his article, Cho advises: \Always look to ex- pand your mind.\ Cho's column contradicts his advice. If Cho is upset that people perceive him to be a certain way, then why does he do the same to others? Ch.o as- sumes that his critics live lives of illusion, that we \thinksugarplums candy, and fluffy clouds.\ And it is up to him to teach us all a lesson in reality,. because \[he 1 believes that each person needs a spoonful of medicine at least once a week.\ Phil, your medicine has left a bad taste in my mouth. ~~~~~a~~~~m~~~~~~~~~h~~~~~~~~~======~~~~~~~~~~~~S~~~~~~~~ college. EDS AM~ f Y01111 5 a;{fv SpC«;e/ WAS IT RAPE? If you felt pressured, it probably was. Maybe it was someone you knew or someone close to you. Maybe it was yesterd~y, last week, or even years ago ..• IT STILL HURTS. Rape is a crime of violence; You may have feeling that haven't gone away. If you need help, call the Safe Space beeper: 1-800-283-2255 Pin: 11349 ( I'r en1 br: Sc: an1 SOl in) fat lat1 tbr of in1 jac no: 90: no wa sh< Olll rec ho' cer Ab Ka \OJ 1 bUJ km sor mg ha1 fev pee ye< sor jail tiel we of£ no anc Un the an ad Sill the is c car me est cet thiJ me quJ ( rec the lllll

No Place To Play This past Saturday mght there was an event put on in Old Chapel by the Program Assistants. The band The Red-Light District put on an entertaining performance for a total of eighteen students. The event, <tS advertised around campus by voice-mails and posters, was a failure. This is not the first time that such a concert held at Union College hCis yielded such results. At a previous Fall Fest, the band Rane was hired to perform. Like the band this past Saturday night, the concert was unsuc- cessful. The Concert Committee tried to hold two concerts last term , unfortunately both wer~ financial failures and attendance disappoint- ments. Questions arise because of the events. Who is to blame'! Is it 1b.e OP/ED . ~. 8tftlor · · Concert Conunittee's fault? Is it the Program Assistants fault? Is it t!J.e l...ni,. \M .. h L ~4/l'..t..J .· students' fault for not attending? Where can the balme be placed? . , ., ~-- ~ Union has no viable place to hold a concert. Our options are limited to G!! ~~# Crt~· . Chet's, Old Chapel, the Field House, or in a fraternity house. Are any of ____ ~ ___ these social places adequate enough to host a band? Unfortunately we X J .fC'C ~\\~~!liiiiiiiiii!iiE.l. do not have the proper facilities here at Union. i.if :.J :1 Siena College, which is just down the road from Union, is blessed to ~A have the MAC. The MAC is a small arena perfect for a basketball game ~ · ~~ ~ ~~ll~aplacefurmpfu~bm~Wpl~.Th~u~a~o~offue~y~----------------~~-------------------- reasons that Siena is able to book the many big name acts that they do. A • p • I • ht The lack of a place to perform is a hindrance for Union when it tries to sIan e r sua s I 0 n n s Ig . s bring in the groups that students want to see. It is safe to say that Tlu Dave Mathews Band or Phish would not want to play in the field house. When the band Guster played here at Union, there comment was that they were \forced to play in an acoustically horrible building.\ Plus they rediculed of the giant net that hangs from the ceiling. What, then, is the a11swer for Union in terms of a facility for concerts? Should Union abandon its attempts to bring musical acts to the College? If the College decides not to renovate the current facilities or invest in new ones, what quality of band will they pursue. If the school intends to book the top forty bands, then it must provicle the space required to host such events. These events will lead to t!J.e betterment of the school and the increased happiness of the student body. The administration claims that they want to diversify how stu- dents spend our free time. The administration contenually complain about the lack of a social alt~mative to the Greek System. They strongly advo- cate the need for change and an increase in the variety of offerings. If this is truly what they want, then they must provide for the students a proper place in which to hold concerts and other such events. Tile renivation of Old Chapel was meant to create this type of social space, a place where events could be held. However, while the new Old Chapel is nice, it is unsuited for professional concerts of any type due to the size. Furthem1ore, the area is in pristine condition that will most certainly l>e tarnished by large scale events. If the administration decides that they do not want to provide t!J.e student body with an appropriate venue, then Union should no longer be hiring bands to play. As things now stand, we are just wasting money. Every time we have a band like the Red-Light District, we spend eight hundred dollars that cDuld have been spent elsewhere. Eighteen stu- dents showing up for an event reflects poorly on the school as a whole. This cannot continue because we will continue to lose money. Uni()n Dear Editor(OP/ED Page): After reading the ftrst few install- ments of Philip Cho 's column, \Asian Persuasion\ l (as an Asian) was livid. I told myself that this was just the random thoughts of a random guy at Union, who happens to be Asian. Granted, the column is a spew of incoherent thoughts, but I'm sure that the edi- tors at the Concordiensis have read worse. As I read more installments of \Asian Persuasion\ I cannot help but cringe at the garbage Cho was putting into his column. Cho does not wish to be criticized about the content ofhis column. How- ever, as an Asian-American, I take issue with Cho 's use of his Asian heritage as both a scapegoat for his problems and an excuse to alienate himself from therestofthe world. Cho insists on tacking on the word \Asian\ onto the title of his column. Seeing the word \Asian\ attached to such mindless babble almost makes me ashamed to be Asian. Just because Philip Cho is Asian, why does he feel he has to label his meandering personal thoughts with \Asian\? For fue most part, Cho' s column has noth- ing to do with being Asian. In his articles, Cho merely alternates be- tween devoting exactly one sen- tence to the fact that he is Korean- American and indulging in an ob- noxious rant about how he can only find acceptance among his K.orean-American community and K.orean-American girlfriend. When Cho does attempt to offer insights on being Asian, he fails. Cho :instead attaches his Korean heritage to statements that have no relevance to being Asian. In his most recent column, Cho states: \I fwd tllat generally I am a quiet per- son. However, that seems to change when I am with people I am close with and with people I am cornf<>rtable with. Maybe it's a Korean-American thing ... The feel- ing of being more comfortable around people we know cannot be tied to a particular race. How could Cho JlOSSibly think only Korean- Americans feel this way? Another point Cho constantly mentions in his column is that people do not know the \real Philip Cho\. According to Cho, people who know the \real\ Cho make up an exclusive club. To the rest of us, he is just playing a put. In writ- ing articles that constantly point out that he is playing a role, Cho only demonstrates that he does care about what people think of him In the conclusion of his article, Cho advises: \Always look to ex- pand your mind.\ Cho's colurrm contradicts his advice. If Cho is upset that people perceive him to be a certain way, then why does he do the same to others? Cho as- sumes that his critics live lives of illusion, that we \think sugar plums, candy, and fluffy clouds.\ And i:t is up to him to teach us all a lesson in reality, because \[he] believes that each person needs a spoonfu:l of medicine at least once a week.\ Phil, your medicine has left a bad taste in my mouth. m~~h~prov~aprop~reooeor~~hlri~b~~~p~~fuh~~~~~~=~~=~~=~==~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ college. EDS Letter Policy & Disclaimer Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OPIED pa'~ and must be received by 5 PM the Monday beforepubtic3iioil.. Letters must be less than 500 words an.d should pertain to at1 issue that concerns the Union College community. . · Final decisions concerning printing and/or editing a sub®s- sion belong to the Editorial Board. All letters mustbe sign~~ (though requests foranonyrnous publication~Qaybeco~idered by the editors) and saved on a high density disk Letter$ do not necessarily reflect tne opinion of the Editorial Board. Editorials reflect the opinion ofamajority o!1be.EditorialB9atd, and of no one member in particular. Anyopipion columns ()r cartoons reflect tbe()pinions of the, writers orartists~,and.not necessarily the opitlions of the Editorial Board; · · Advertisements appearing in,C~p,cordi~~~i$dO n9{~ec,~s- sarily reflectthe opiniq:nS of the Editorial Board~ . · · · · , · . . Concordiensis is printed byStaffield.Ptinting, 75()Piere:e Road, Clifton Park, NY, 12065. WAS IT RAPE? If you felt pressured, it probably was. Maybe it was someone you knew or someone close to you. Maybe it was yesterday, last week, or even years ago .•. IT STILL HURTS. Rape is a crime of violence; You may II ave feeling that ltavfntt gone away. If you need help, call the Safe Space beeper: 1-800-283-2255 Pin: 11349 Rfr'e; All) PHOTO PROCESSING• Go TO RITE AID FOR ALL OF YOUR PHOTO NEEDS! 'WE ARE LOCATED ON VANVRANKEN AVENUE (518) 382·3304 I, I ). c I'n enc bn Scl anc sor my fau late thr: of1 int jac nOI 901 no wa sha one rec· ho' cen Alf Ka: \o~ L bur knc sor' mg has fe\' pea yea son JOll ties we1 offl f!Ol anJ Un the an ack sm: the IS C can me est cer thir mo qut ( req the ma

oP7to· Union College Daily Affirmation I'm good enough, I'm smaxt euough,.andl'mstrong e:noughto brave the 50-bellow,...zero Schenecta.-weather, to bite my lip and take the perpetual up·on that sorority [expletive] who cru~hed my foot and acted like it was my fault, to fend off the overpopu- lated, rabid squirrel that seem to thrive on this campus and rob me of my chicken bites, to be massive inthe face of all thos. e who are more . . jacked than me in the gym, to ig- nore the sting of my pride as. tb.e 90lb; freshman gid bench-presses no less than twice what I press, to walk through th.e valley of tne shadow of Union, to delete every one of those artnoying messages r receive via voicernail talking about how, if I show up at the campus center at 7:OOpm, I tan watch Dean Alford play Metallica riffs on his Kazoo, to calmly empty out my '\open container\ of apple juice at the request of the moronic secu~ rity guard, to dodge the boombox- totinghiker-doids, to bear the gut- churnitlg smell of puke in .the bath- room on Sunday nmrnings,.to sur- vive West dining on \Deep-Fried Night\ to rid myself of all those asinine .. Forward this to ten ofyour [expletive] friends who are too dumb to realize that Bill Gates will NOT give them$1000 if they send it to ten of their friends and couldn't even if he wanted to be- cause he doesn't have .their mail- ing addresses\ emails, to find a [expletive] parking space on cam- pus, to remember not to park in front of a walkway (in spite of the , fact that it makes a perfectly good, parking space), lest I be declared an enemy of the state by Union and fmed my frrst born child, to deal with the factthat some [expletive] managed to clog the sink with dip- spit and Ramen, to accept that Nintendo and work cannot be en- tertained simultaneously, to forget t!tat [expletive] Backstreet Boys song that has been plaguing my mind since last Tuesday because tb.e rejectdown.the ha:ll WU..L NOT STOP playing itover and over and over ... , to use cash for the soda machine in spite of fact that I have a perfectly good valedine card which the school made tne mort- gage my house to get, to pay $6.59 f()r a crap-burger and soggy fries a,tDutch, toshellout$35 fora used, paperback copy ofHugh Jass' s I'm Stuck (A retrospective look at be- ing ~;tt fat ass in the 90's), to get $0.42 back for that book, to take J()ur exams.at once, while mypro- fessor power-bombs my testicles, and. fmally. ; . To escape the claws of this institu- tion! Kevin Carter SDT Informs Freshmen on Hazing . · · · I went to this particular meeting last ager or an executive of a company by HannahGaw · . . · . week that to~1ched upon the myths reads the credentials of an appli- StaffWrzter ofhazing and was hosted by SDT. cant and decides, based upon his . Let me begin this article by de~ Hazing, for those who are unaware, or herrest~meand upon the recom- bunking a myth. As. most peo_ple is forcing a person to do things .that mendation of others, whether the Ia 10 w, Sigma Delta Ta,u, one of four are unsafe and which cause dis- person should be hired for the job. sororities at Union, lost theirhous- comfort,eitherto themselves, or to After he or she becomes an em- ing privileges last year and n<>w others. Hazing activities usually ployee, initiation and \learning the has a house on University Place, a include alcohol and are illegal on ropes\ en.sue. Why shouldn't so- few blocks from campus. M<>st the Union campus. I myself am rorities do the same? Why must people don't know why this is. Last 100% opposed to any sort ofhaz- there be a trial period, otherwise year during pledge season, t!te ing activity, simply because itputs knovim as pledging, to test the loy- sorority asked girls who wantedt<> a person in an uncomfortable po~ alty of the girls w:hohave e:xpressed jainSDTto engage ins:omeacttvi- sition and forceshimorhertop~r- a desire to become members of a ties that bordered oh hazing. They take in, what this college censid- parti<;:ular sorority? Is their inter- were caught, and even though t!te ers, illegalacts. est not enough for them to be initi- offense committed was not very se- The members ofSDT who spoke a ted? I agree with Dean Alford's rious, the punishment was hars:h at the meeting told those seeking point of view-why should a so- and lived up to the standards that more information about the soror.. rority require that new members union had establishea concernin.i) ity thatha:zing is not a part of their prove themselves worthy? the penalty for hazing. SDT is still pledging routine. The sisters en- The sisters defended their stand a recognized sorority and is fully couragedthe freshmen to ask ques- with the tradition of pledging and acknowledged by Union. They tions and were good about answer~ the character that is built and ere- simply have to undergo \time in ingthem. ated during the pledge period. The the penalty box,\ if you will. SD'T Dean Alford was also in atten- members said that girls who want is currently applying to regain on- dance at the meeting, and served to be a partDfSDT must, in a sense, campushousingfornextyear. The to be a driving force ofinterroga- prove themselves by going members were very open and hon- tion. He brought up excellent through the initiation process first, est about what had happened con- points and posed several ques- and then having the existing sis- cerning the probation, which, r tions to the SDT sisters. One in ters decide whether or not they think, made the fres1nnan girls feel partic1.llar caused some heated dis- should be inducted. more comfortable about their in- cussion. Dean Alford asked why SDT w:as definitely doing a ser- it was necessary to \convert\ vice to uninformed freshmen girls qumes. One of the assigmnents that is pledges before their initiation in to who are interested in joining a so- required of the sorority as a part of the sorority. He compared .enter- rority. However; was it simply be- their retribution included an infor- ing a sorority to getting hired for a cause they had to do so due to the mation session concerning hazing. job in the business world. A man- necessity attached to the meeting? SEX, SCANDAL, & DINNER C.~ome to the Mountebanks 2r•tl annual ~~,.w~_y.J't:ery dinner ,._.;,'J'inster in a Handbag On Saturday~ Feb. 12 at 6:80pm. in lJpper(~lass Dining. 'Reserve your tk~ket ir1 the (~C: hy Feb. 11 U On1y $JS validine!! .. , ' ~~ ... ~,.. ... , If·. \ ,. '\11\ '\ ~ QJ:mwm:.Men-i,a • February 3, 2000 · Page 9 R.A. Position: Fun an:d Profitable by Seth Carrier Contributing Writer \Being an RA. gives one the op- . • portunity to meet many different • people and deal with themon a day :to day basis,\ says Shaker :Choudhury, R.A. of the second ·. floor of South College. This is • probably the IIlOSt important part ··of being an R.A. - the person to · person intera<;:tion. The R.A. posi- ' tion is fun. You get to take your floor to do activities such as rock • climbing and laser tag. There are a lot of perks as well. As an R.A., you are guaranteed a single, a micro- fridge free of . charge, and a bi-weekly paycheck -for being around on your floor, being friendly and fulfilling a few · other small R.A. duties. Also, as part ofbeing an R.A. you will also receive training and certifications. This year, all the R.A. 's hav:e been certified, free ofcbarge, in CPR and First Aid, as well as becoming .cer- tified mediators in the state ofNew YOlk. Being an R.A. helps you learn skills for life, as well. Pavan Bommasamudram, RA. onthe third floor of South, relates this experi- ence he had during training: \There was a higll ropes course that we participatedin for two days. I have always been a person who gets scared easily of heights. I went through the two days not doing tnuch of the hard stuff. I fmally decided to do something scary and crazy in my life. I did a course called the Pamper pole. The Pamper pole is basically a telephone pole that you have to climb up to the top, jump off and catch a trapeze. As I was climbing it, I was really scared, but my friends, fellow R.A. 's, sup- ported me and told me that I could do it. I remember one of the R.A. 's telling me that this was not the time to be passive and that I could do it. They helped me to build my self- confidence and I was able to get to the top and jump. I was happy because I did something that I never expected to do.\ Through training, and through the everyday challenges of living in the resi- dence halls, you to can grow and learn while earning money at the same time. The last information session for R.A. selection is being held tonight, February 3, in the Col- lege Center Auditorium at 7 PM. If you are interested in becoming an R.A., please attend so you can learn more about the job. RetractiO·n: The article \Union Unplugged Yields Poor Tunwut\ from the January . 27, 2000 issue of Concordiensis stated \Union Unplugged takes place · every Friday night at Old Chapel.\ Union Unplugged is not held. every Friday night, however the committee is looking to schedule another event in the near future. ·ar.nn.cnrbi.ensis The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 18 77 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper http:/ /concordy .union.edu Brooke M. Barylick- David C. Brooks, Jr. EDITORS-IN-CHIEF Jessie a Zuehlke NEWS EDITOR KatrinaTentor OPINIONS EDITOR Brian Terlinsky Rachel Bukowski SPORTS EDITORS Lori Greene Kimberly Rohback A &£EDITORS Kaelyn South PROMOTIONAL MANAGER Sloan Miller Aaron Seliger PHOTO EDITORS J airne Chandler . EXECUTIVE EDITOR Jason Putorti WEBMASTER Eugene Scllliltz FEATURES EDITOR Sloan Miller SCIENCE & TECH EDITOR Neil Routman WORLD NEWS EDITOR MichaelS. McGuire COPY EDITOR Dauielle Devine Amanda Jackson ADVERTISEMENT COORDINATORS Erika Maneilli EDITORIAL CARTOONIST Scott ScuJiion. FACULTY ADY!SOR PHOTOGRAPHERS: Calvert Crary, Elizabeth Daigle. Megann Denefrio, Katie Hais, Katie James, Dave Megnerdichian, Ale:x Militello. STAFF: Matt Aronowitz, Sieve Ayers, Jessica Brearton, Beth Brogan, Gina Campanella, Michaela Cautela, Dan Centi, Meridith Chace, Philip Cho, Jim DeWan, Kristina Dorne, Mary Felton, Frank Filh:iotto, Frank Flaherty, Stephem Flaherty, Peter Flynn, Hannah Caw, Matt Gendron. David Gruner, Deric Harrington, Jon Kelson, Brint Kern, Cor~· Kiefer, Dan Kirsh; Allyson Kohlmann, Alexandra Lohse, Ale\ Militello, Jess Miller, Stephen Nemeth, Fahim Noor, Steve Schuler, tvlark Shemel, Jeff Sliver, Jessisca Stephe1is, Lee Stevens, Sanskriti Thakur, Charles Tuthi!l, Vinny Voleti, Kristen Zadotarian.

I, I OP/EIY . . Cll.tllttarhlmsh~ • February 3, 2000 • Page 9 Union College Daily Affirmation R.A. Position: I'm good enough, I'm smart enough, and I'm strong enough to brave the 50-bellow-zero Schenecta-weather, to bite my lip and take the perpetual upon that sorority [expletive] who crushed my foot and acted like it was my fault, to fend off the overpopu- lated, rabid squirrel that seem to thrive on this campus and rob rne of my chicken bites, to be massive in the face of all those who are more jacked than me in the gym, to ig- nore the sting of my pride as the 90lb, freshman girl bench-presses no less than twice what I press, to walk through the valley of the shadow of Union, to delete every one of those a1moying messages I receive via voicemail talking about how, if I show up at the campus center at 7:OOpm, I can watch Dean Alford play Metallica riffs on his Kazoo, to calmly empty out my \open container\ of apple juice at the request of the moronic secu- rity guard, to dodge the boombox- toting biker-d(:) ids, to bear the gut- churning smell ofpuke in the bath- room on Sunday mornings, to sur- vive West dining on \Deep-Fried Night\ to rid myself of all those asinine \Forward this to ten of your [expletive] friends who are too dumb to reaJ,ize that Bill Gates will NOT give them$1000 if they send it to ten of their friends and couldn't even if he wanted to be- cause he does!l't have their mail- ing addresses\ emails, to find a [expletive] parking space on cam- pus, to remember not to park in front of a walkway (in spite of the fact that it makes a perfectly good parking space), lest I be declared an enemy ofthe state by Union and filled my first born child, to deal with the factthat some [expletive] managed to clo~ the sink with dip- spit and Ramen, to accept that Nintendo and work cannot be en- tertained simultaneously, to forget that [expletive] Backstreet Boys song that has been plaguing my mind since last Tuesday because the reject down the hall WILL NOT STOP playing it over and over and over. .. , to use cash for the soda machine in spite of fact that I have a perfectly good valedine card which the school made me mort- gage my house to get, to pay $6.59 for a crap-burger and soggy fries at Dutch, to shell out $35 for a used, paperback copy ofHugh Jass's I'm Stuck (A retrospective look at be- ing at fat ass in the 90's), to get $0.42 back for that book, to take four exams at once, while my pro- fessor power-bom:bs my testicles, andfmally ... To escape the claws of this institu- tion! Kevin Carter SDT Informs Freshmen on Hazing I went to this particular meeting last ager or an executive of a company week that touched upon the myths reads the credentials of an appli- of hazing and was hosted by SDT. cant and decides, based upon his Hctzing, for tho~e who are unaware, or her resume and upon the recom- is forcing a person to do things that mendation of others, whether the are unsafe and which cause dis- person should be hired for the job. comfort, either to themselves, or to After he or she becomes an em- others. Hazing activities Hsually ployee, initiation and \learning the include alcohol and are illegal on ropes\ ensue. Why shouldn't so- the Union campus. I myself am rorities do the same? Why must 1 0()% opposed to any sort ofhaz- there be a trial period, otherwise ing activity, simply because it puts known as pledging, to test the loy- a person in an uncomfortable po- alty of the girls who have expressed sition and force£ him or her to par- a desire to become members of a take in, what this college consid- particular sorority? Is their inter- ers, illegal acts. est not enough for them to be initi- by Hannah Gaw Staff Writer ------------------------- Let me begin this article by de- bunking a myth. As most people know, Sigma Delta Tau, one of four sororities at Union, lost their hous- ing privileges last year and now has a house on University Place, a few blocks from campus. Most people don't know why this is. Last year during pledge season, the sorority asked girls who wanted to join SDT to engage in some activi- ties that bordered on hazing. They were caught, and even though the offense conunitted was not very se- rious, the punislunent was harsh and lived up to the standards that Union had established concerning the penalty for hazing. SOT is still a recognized sorority and is fully acknowledged by Union. They simply have to undergo \time in the penalty box,\ if you will. SOT is currently applying to regain on- campus housing for next year. 1l1e members were very open and hon- est about what had happened con- cerning the probation, which, I think, made the freshman girls feel more comfortable about their in- The members ofSDT who spoke a ted? I agree with Dean Alford's at 1he meeting 1old those seeking point of view-why should a so- more information about the soror- rority require that new members ity that hazing is not a part of their prove themselves worthy? pledging routiae. The sisters en- The sisters defended their stand couraged the rreshmen to ask ques- with the tradition of pledging and tions and were good about answer- the character that is built and cre- ing them. ated during the pledge period. The Dean Alford was also in atten- members said that girls who want dance at the meeting. and served to be a part ofSDT mu<:t, in a sense, to be a driving force ofinterroga- prove themselves hy going tion. He brought up excellent through the initidtillil process first. points and posed several ques- and then having the existing sis- lions to the SDT sisters. One in ters decide whether or not they particular caused some heated dis- should he inducted. cussion. Dean Alford asked why SDT v.:as definitely doing a ser- it was necessary to \convert\ vice to uninformed freshmen girls qumes. One of the assignments that is pledges before their initiation in to who are interested in joining a so- required of the sorority as a part of the sorority. He compared enter- rority. However, was it simply be- their retribution included an infor- ing a sorority to getting hired for a cause they had to do so due to the mation session concerning hazing. job in the business world. A man- necessity attached to the meeting? SEX, SCANDAL, & DINNER C.~ome to the M{)untehanks 2 1 1( 1 annual ..,/U:~.r-~,...,.t·ery dinner ~.S]>inster in a Frandbag On Sattu-day, Feb. 12 at 6:30p.m in {Jpperclass Dining. ·Reserve your ticket in the (:C= by Feb. 1 1 H On I y $.5 v alidine!! Acopulco. Cancun JamOICO Bahorno Cruises Florida Europe 'J •;j ~ I ··:jtJ ,~'ttll~ l'iJ ~~\ ·, I' 1J~ Fun and Profitable by Seth Carrier Contributing Writer \Being an R.A. gives one the op- portunity to meet many different people and deal with them on a day to day basis,\ says Shaker Choudhury, R.A. of the second floor of South College. This is probably the most important part of being an R.A. - the person to person interaction. The R.A. posi- tion is fun. You get to take your floor to do activities such as rock climbing and laser tag. There are a lot of perks as well. As an R.A., you are guaranteed a single, a micro-fridge free of charge, and a bi-weekly paycheck for being around on your floor, being friendly and fulfiLling a few other small R.A. duties. Also, as part of being an R.A. you will also receive training and certifications. This year, all the R.A. 'shave been certified, free of charge, in CPR and First Aid, as well as becoming cer- tified mediators in the state ofNew York. Being an R.A. helps you learn skills for life, as well. Pavan Bomrnasamudram, R.A. on the third floor of South, relates this experi- ence he had during training: \There wa~ a high ropes course that we participated in for two days. I have always been a person who gets scared easily of heights. I went through the two days not doing mu.ch of the hard stuff. I fmally decided to do something scary and crazy in my life. I did a course called the Pamper pole. The Pamper pole is basically a telephone pole that you have to dimb up to the top, jump off and catch a trapeze. As I was climbing it, I was really scared, but my friends, fellow R.A. 's, sup- ported me and told me that I could do it. I remember one of the R.A. 's telling me that this was not the time to be passive and that I could do it. They helped me to build my self- confidence and I was able to get to the top and jump. I was happy because I did something that I never expected to do.\ Through training, and through the everyday challenges of living in the resi- dence halls, you to can grow and learn while earning money at the same time. The last information session for R.A. selection is being held tonight, February 3, in the Col- lege Center Auditorium at 7 PM. If you are interested in becoming an R.A., please attend so you can learn more about the job. Retraction: The a1ticle \Union Unplugged Yields PD'or Turnout\ from the January 27, 2000 issue of Corzcord;ensis stated \Union Unplugged takes place every Friday night at Old Chapel.\ Union Unplugged is not held every Friday night, however the committee is looking to schedule another event in the near future. <llnn.cnr bi.en sis T11e Student Newspaper of l 1 nion College Sillce 18 7-:' Schenectatly ·~·Oldest /Vew!o!paper http://concord)'.union.edu Brooke :\-1. Barylick- Davie C. Brooks . .Jr. /.;DITORS-1.\\- C \Jf Il:F Jessica Zuehlke .\/:'11 S E/JITOR Katri11a Tentor OP/.\'!0.\\.\\ Ff)/TOR Brian Terlinsky Rach~l Bukowski SPORTS EDITORS Lori Greene KimberlY Rob back A &£EDITORS Kael:yn South PROMOTIONAL MANAGER Sloan Miller Aaro11 Seliger PHOTO EDITORS Jaime Chandler EXECUTIVE EDITOR Jason Putorti IIFR\l..JSlER Eugt>ne Schultz FEA n RF.\1:.'/)/TOR Sloan :Hiller SC!E\\CE & TECH EDJrOR :\J eil Routman WORLD NEWS EDITOR MichaelS. :\'lcGuire COPY EDITOR Danielle Devine Amanda Jackson ADVERT!SEMENT COORDINATORS Erika Mancini EDITORIAL CARTOO/\'!ST Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR PHOTOGRAPHERS: Calvert Crary, Eliza beth Daigle, Meg ann Denefrio. Katie Hais, Katie James. Dave Meguerdioehian, Alex Militello. STAFF. Matt Aronowitz, Steve Ayers, Jessica Brearton, Beth Brogan. Gina Campanella, Michaela Cautela, Da11 Centi, Meridith Chare, Philip Cho, Jim DeWan, Kristina Dorne, Mary Felton. Frank Filiciotto, Frank Flaherty, Stephen Flaherty, Peter Flynn. Hannah Gaw, :\1att Gendron. David Gruner. Deric Harrington, Jon Kelson, Brian Kern, CoQ Kiefer. Dan Kirsh Allvsou Kolllmaun. Alexan!lra Lohse. Aie'x Militello, .Jes1 Miller, Ste~hen ·Nemeth, Fahim ~oor, Ste-\e Schuler, Mark Sheme-1. Jl'ff Silver, Jessisca Stephens, Lee Stevens, Sa nskriti Thakur, Charles Tuthill. Vinny Voleti, Kristen Zadourian.

McCain Wins in N .B. by MichaelS. McGUire Copy Editor John McCain defeatt:!d George W. Bush in the New Hampshire Presidential Primary by a larger margin than expected. With sixty- California. In an analysis of the voting, McCain won sixty percent of the vote of independents that voted for Republicans. He also earned seventy percent of the liberal Re- publican vote, sixty percent of the moderate Republican vote and, legitimate Republican alternative t0 Governor Bush. Asthe WlSuccess- ful candidacies of candidates such as Senator Orrin Hatch and Gary Bauercome to an end, McCain now . has a better chance of picking up their supporters desJ>ite Senator Hatch's endorsementofBush. It is eight percent of the pre- r-------~----~~----, alsoimportanttonotethatthe cincts reporting, McCain led ,, t h Lf C I voters refused to accept Bush fmty-nine percent to JO n JVlC ain tru Y is a Bush's attempt to paint. thirty-()tte percent, with 1 · · R b/\ McCain as more of a liberal · Steve Fmbes receiving thir- egl fzmate epU . lCGn because of his positions. on teenpercent,AlanKeyessix alternatiVe [O issues such as campaign fi- percent and Gary Bauer nance reform and tax cuts. managing only one percent Governor Bus h. \ Half of the New Hampshire of the vote. This is a seri- conservatives supported ous blowto Bauer, who may quit the race before the next pri- mary. An ecstatic McCain said, \I think we fmdly have a poll without a marginof error.\ The primary was a must-win for McCain, who had investe<l most of his time and money in the state, skipping the Iowa Caucuses. Many considered Steve Forbes' strong-second place fmish in..the Caucuses to have been a sign of weakness for Governor Bush, a11d with McCain's victory in this, tile nation's first primary, he is poised to have future suc- cesses in the other early primary states sach as South Carolina. More importantly, however, this may set him up for a better-than- expected showing on \Super Tues- d<:!y,\ March 7, which .. incllldesthe powerful states ofNew York and surprisingly, split the conservative Republican vote. This is significant because half of the Republicatl elec- torate is considered to be conser- vative. In exit polls, many independents that traditionally vote for Demo- crats said that they intended to vote for a Republican in order to prevent Governor Bush from earn- ing a victory. While New Hampshire is only one state, and a small state at that, it is often considered to be the first real challenge for candidates. It is too early to predict the eventual effects of this year's primary, how- ever it would be easy to see how it could be the fmal nail in the coffm for Gary Bauer's one-dimensional pro-life campaign, as well as evi- dence that John McCain truly is a John McCain l)fi. Tuesday, and he can hope that the same will . be true in the conservative state of South Carolina. Senator McCain is not contest- ing the state of Delaware, which is a crucial contest for Steve Forbes. As one of his last opportunities to face Bush without McCain in the contest, a weak showing could end any credibility that his campaign gained in Iowa. By skipping the small state, · McCain is able to spend three weeks preparing for the South Carolina primary, considered the next major event in th:is primary season. McCain's victory in. New Hamp- shire was necessary, but the mar- gin by which he suc<:eeded may be just what he neede<l to succeed in future contests. '· HELP CHOOSE SENIOR ClASS GIFT Vote THIS Wednesday-Friday @ INFO Booth in College Center OR On-line: www. union .dailyjolt.com The Personals! Back b\ pnpubr lkmand, the Concordic'!l.\1\' Personul S.cclil)ll \\it! . . be featnnng: YOl.R per-,onal ads. Submittmg ts frec',just email: · conconly(a \·u.union.edu . .Graham THE TEAM WANTS TO SEND ITS HEARTFELT CONDOLENCE AND HOPE THAT ALL IS WELL WITH YOI) AND TH:E FAMILY. WE WILL KEEP YOU IN OUR PRAYERS. .:MENS SOCCER TEAM \NETTIE!!!!!!'; Happy 21st! ! Here's to a lifetime ofblondness, tanness and margaritas! eloveyou!- \BabyB\, \Ere-bear\ and \Katie\ Tomygirls: I got a beep beep from the Ballerina ' To Union College: • Sleep well, I hereby announce . , my retirement from broom · ··ball. Rout .Mike, 'lt will be a very long 8 terms if you keep calling me that! :) -tentork \vitt, You need to get back into action after your \off' weekend .... love, BMB Mike, That was so funny when you ran out of the office like you had to take a poop or some- thing! The Concordy Gang Alibaba, Why would we go dance? We are surrounded by hot guys? Hah bah! -Your Dancing Partner Hannah, We'll getyou out one of these weekends! KT:) ·Tentork, I don't want your f**king cake!! -MSM We can do it. Your physics partner Mack, I dislocated my watch. Love, Conversation . anyone? Who threw that? can't wait until history class l E Mik:e 7 McCain may have won the battle, but Bush will win the war! -Dave Roomie, Where's PD? -Your Roomie Ballerina, Heard any good Spears lately? Don't you j · love that song \Crazy?\ E - Have another, Annette, it's your 21st!! Love, Jess Young Matthew, Si<ie trip? ;) KT Big Can, You rock my world. Keep on dancing. Don't touch my boob! love, BMB Pammy, Thanks for a stellar evening. I hope to do it again soon! Love,Brooke Dear Fishes, Kologavroi eiste mounia, gamw thn thura thn efta . . . See you on the 16th -R21 Fero House Club s, What's my ~--­ name? Say :my name ! Hmmm .... a fan, an extension cord, and a cup ..•. hmmm? E Sc :E hUJ en~ inc Pri acl: thi ac1 pla tha th~: tee ad, asl prt ou1 fea ope dill tin: ] ret de, in!§ we clo do cl( pr< na Nc fe~ jar lll( tlu di: db a J co cu M ac gij an fo in teJ St< sn U: at e\i G, be:: se or pr w T ct o:f re m pi H Sl (t Sl c] be ill a c~ c~

<IIonrnrm.enuis • February 3, 2000 • Page 11 - - Science & Technology Healthcare and the Genetic Revolution by Steve Ayers Staff Writer Recently, researchers crossed a hurdle in the field of genetiC engineering when they succeeded indbning monkeys from embryos. Prior to this, the only success achieved had been in performing this trick with mice. This was actuafly just the insertion of plasmid DNA into a cell, rather thart DNA manipulation, it opens the door to a host of new techniques. However, as such adva11ces occur, we are forced to ask whether our society is prepared to deal with the outcomes. Though such dazzling feats make great headlines, they open the door to a host of moral dilemmas, which may take more time to resolve. Last yeat, the cloning of dolly represented a pinnacle in the development of genetic engineer- ing techniques. Since this time, we have actually been able to clone monkeys, bringing us even closet to a human done. Human cloning is mostly a novelty, providing no great benefit over natural reproduction for most people. However,. the trend which PK.U is a rare example in that it contrast to the current phase, in this represents in the development is a disorder that we have found which the discovery of every new ofgenetic engineering techniques a cure for soon after we found gene for a disorder is a welcomed and our increasing :knowledge a method of diaglltosing it. The event, we might be far less happy of the human genome could latter case serYes as a better to hear tb.is information in the fu- pose many problems in the near example in the majority of cases. ture. The greatest problem ofhav- future. We are able to diagnose disorders ing a variety of genetic tests with A large part of genetic re- ~::::::':''::':'\\::-::-:-:-::---:--:-=------------..,very few cures, is that it is not search currently foc1.1ses on the compatible with our health care discovery and mappiiJ.g of the system. human genome, theciQllection The entire concept of health genetic information within our insurance is based on the idea species. We have s11cceeded in that the individual has no recording large p(!)rtions of this real way ofknowing when they code, and as we do s(), we are will get sick. If it becomes pas- learning the genetic basis for sible to make this determination some illnesses. in the future, then it could pose K.eteneuria (PKU)cuulrai-Sachs an interesting conflict between Syndrome are two ex.amples. people who are predisposed to PKU is a disorder which illne~s and health insurance prevents th.e b()d.y from cempa.nies. If the results of ge- processing Phenylalanine. netic .tests were required for an When ingested, it will insurance plan, then the plan www.cnn.~om accumulate and ca11se severe could discriminate on the basis The Gionet! Monkeys retardation, but witlJ. a simple ()f wllo was most likely to modification of diet, this can contract illness. But in theory, be prevented entirely. Tai-Sachs sucb as sickle-cell anemia, certain if insurance companies were Syndrome is a severe disorder forms of cancer and neurological not allowed to see these results, that usu(llly results in death in disorders allfollowthispattem, but then predisposed individuals one or two years. rt is so severe Iackreffective cures. could bankrupt the insurers by that many parents opt to termirtate We may be,enterirag a new phase purchasing the most comprehen- their pregnancy after the diag- in the development of genetic sive plans. noses has been made_ engineering techniques. In The discovery of new genetic tests provides us with valuable in- formation, but we must be prepared to deal with that effectively. Currently, there are few effective laws to protect individual genetic test results from tli<Jse with a true desire to see them. A larger problem may be that the current strm~ture of our healthcare system is not capable of handling this type of information in an ethical way. However, any healthcare system will have a difficult time address- ing the needs of genetically predisposed populations, with an interest in more treatment available, as well as healthy JlOpulations, with an interest in the least expensive treatment. Eventually, the development of genetic tests may give way to the development of actual genetic cures. Using viruses and embry- onic cells, future medical teclmiques could actually correct errors in our genes, avoiding illness. Until this time, the development of genetic engineer- ing could necessitate some hard choices within our society. All knowledge carries a certain amount of responsibility with it, and this field is no exception. Holographic Storage WIL-D WILD WSST by Alex Militello . .. Sta.ffWriter This term \Photorefractive Nonlinear Optics\ is nothing to fear. It is just a little bitof scientific jargon, which in layman's terms means \Easy-to-explain-in-only• thrirty-simple- steps.\ I will be discussing, or attempting to discuss, the basic premises of a materials science which could conceivably revoluti()nize our current concepts of daia storage. Megabytes of information accessed per second and gigabytes o(storage space could, and probably will, make way for gigabytes of accessed information per second and terabytes (trillions of bytes) in storage space, all located within a small crystal-like device. Professor David McGee ofDrew University received his Ph.D. at Bryn Mawr College and eventually went on to work for General Electric. What he has been doing is making very sensitive organic materials in order to fine-tune their optical properties so that these materials will react to light in a specific way. This \fine- tuning\ involves changing a usually intrinsic part of a material, called the index of refraction. This \index\ has much to do with the way Hsht passes through a material. However, in a photorefractive substanc.e, this intrinsic property (the index of refraction) of the ~ubstance we are looking at chang~;:s, because we happen to be shining laser light on it. We have also changed our initial material by combining it with a substance which allows it to conduct electricity (making it comparable ~n some_,ways t() a metal alloy). Th.e ;electrons in this newly formed .conductive substance bounce arolllld, g'oing from molecule to molecule as an electric current :is introduced into the material at the same time a laser beam is shined on it as well. The laser light (ligJtt which is, unlike light from a L:ightbulb, of a very specific color and frequency within tb.e electromag- netic spectrum) sbiliecl upon our sample affects the electrons somewhat differently than the large current running through our apparatus. The electrons' positions are dictat~d by where the light hits the rnaierial, move according to wb.atewer patterns are indicated within 01 by the light itself. The process and condition is known as electro-optic. I imagined this as be:iag analogous to one of those 11ifty little science toys which change color to a fmger or th.mnb print; a thermal or temperature..:related feature. The shining of tllis light on the substance is actllally a little more complicated tb.an what I have just descr.ibecl, but I will say that the actual production of the image has to do with beam splitting, and interference patterns. The electrons only move into the patterns indicated by the laser light when there is JJ large current connected to oar setup. When the current is tu:rned off, the electrons settle ba:ck into the ir random state of rest, a very slow return to a previous random- ness, erasing the light-formed image sort ofiik.e an Etch-A -Sketch that slowly erase.s itself. Fori:UIIately formater:ia1s scientists, though, they have figured out a way to \freeze\ the electrons inm p()sition after ihe current is 111medoff. This looks very promising for the future of data storage because ()f the fa!Ct that what is saved or \memorized\ by the electrons is not actual bits ()f data, but entire pictures. The lignt fmm 1he laser is imprinting our photorefractive material with images at a certain wavelength of light. This concept of data sto.rage may be familiar to the computet ju11kies out there as parallel port memory, as opposed to se.rial pc;rrtmetnory. Eventually, when all is said and done, allof the frequencies of light we could use ro shine on our material, combined with all of the various angles with which we could shine onto thiis substance, a thecretical value for the amount of data storage withira one of these \crystals\ is on the order of trillions of bytes. (terabytes), as previously menti>ened. Right now, the practical uses for a substance such as this seems to be in many ways unJimited; we are ()ll the verge of firuding out what these materials cou:ld do for us in the future. As I am now just lo()king at the World Wide Web, a group of researcb scientists have successfully connected a crystal oftbis type to an actual computer's central processing lllnit Infonnation for this article was gathered from the speech delivered by Dr. David McGee's ••p ltotorefractive· Nonlinear Qptics .... For mote nnformation on this topic e-ontact Professors McWhirter or Maleki in the Phys- ics Department or e-mail me at rnilitela@union.edu. Comments are · appreciated. NIGHT WEST DI~ING F'SBRl.lAIG'f ;s, ZOOO 8AR66CtJ6 T6~A6 ST't'l-~ 6S6F 6RIS\<'5T l'AtJSAS CIT't' \165 BufFALO 611.L'S CHICt<iiN 6A\8SCuSD ToFu 8LJNS 666F GHtL.I GHGSS!i Fr<ISS r<AJJCHS STvL& 6iAtJS Co~~· otJ THE C08 GuJ<L,~S CoRrJ6~SAD

The Dire Search For Controversy by Deric Harrington Staff Writter To be honest, I didn't see much on this campus that's controver- sial for this week, so I'll have to create my own controversy. I'd like to do that by saying I hate ev- eryone. Now, when I say every- one, I mean you, the person that's reading this article right now. Don't think I'm just writing this generically, in order to stir up the proverbial pot o' controversy. I mean that I, Deric Harrington, hate you, personally. Not I hate your friend, that might be reading this ... but I hate you. Now that I've gotten that off my chest, let's just go back to being friends, ok? Actually, I guess I did see some form of controversy today. This one goes all the way to the corpo- rate giants known as Wal-Mart ... that's right; I'm talking about how guy's gloves never match any- thing else. This once small prob- lem was discovered by me origi- nally when I went to K.-mart last week ( oh my god, I don't shop at Abercrombie? Someone shoot me quickly, eliminate me from the Union population, because I shop at a \cheap\ store), and was look- ing for ... black gloves. See I wear a leather jacket, that happens to be black (no controversy there, just details), and I didn't want white gloves to go with it. Well, they had no men's black gloves ... so I have gray gloves now. I wondered originally if it was just me, or if this problem went deeper. Then, on my way back from class, I saw a guy walking ... not too unusual, you say? Well, let me tell you more. He was wearing a dark red jacket. .. and purple gloves. I think what us as guys try to do, is come as close as we can to whatever jacket we're wearing ... it's a con- spiracy by all the women of this world, so we all look like morons. Speaking of Chicken Patty day at Upper Class ... wait... No I wasn't there ... forget it. I have this white stuff coming out of my TV ... It looks like crack or something (Disclaimer: I don't lmow what crack actually looks like, I'm just guessing here ... or even better, I saw it on TV one time). OK, I'm bored now ... I've used all the humorous things (or not humorous, depending on yourpro- :spective) that I had for this week, yet I still have space to fill. So ... umlll ... how are you? That's good. I ate breakfast this morn- ing. I had a bowl of cereal. It was · delicious. Possibly the best bowl of cereal I' 11 eat all day. . . Then again, this is only speculation. I mean, it will probably end out be- ing the worst bowl of cereal I eat all day ... or possibly both the best and worst I eat all day. Do I have any more room to fill . up? This must really piss off people that have a lot to say, but no room to say it in, because here I am, without a damn thing to say, and yet week after week, I still get my stuff in print. Think of all the starving authors out there that can't even get their work looked at by one person, and yet for some reason, people still read this. I think that there's more contro- versy here than there should be. A side note: I'd like to thank everyone that helps to make this paper possible. In this past term, and even in the beginning of this one, people tend to forget the hours that go into this paper. All you see is what I write. I'm the least of people that should even be acknowledged for the paper. So, as a personal note from me to you, thanks ... and I hate you (sorry, have to include that; or else every- one that read the first paragraph will think I'm playing favorites). Ah. . . it must be that time, to once again end another column. Howcanltell? Well,it'seasy. I just stand on my head, while drink~ng a glass of chunky style milk, while yodeling out to any- one that listens, but not too many people listen because I can't play the banjo, which as we all know, is the only way someone will lis- ten to someone standing on their head. So, I must go. Deric can be reached at HarringD@union.edu 7 B·edroom House 2000-2001 Large Bedrooms, 2 Bathrooms, Modem Kitchen, Appliances, Extra Closets, Large Deck and Yard, Security System and only half Block from Campus One Year Lease A 28 Year Union Student Tradition! Call 370-5498 The Asian Persuasion ' . .. . . by Philip Cho Staff Writer FIN .K.L-{Fine Killing Lib· erty) This fabulous foursome ts a young female singing group from Korea.. Their first album, \Blue Rain\ was released iJ'l 1998 and their second album, \WMte\ came out recently. The members .are comprised of Ju Hyum, Jin, Yuri, and Hyori. Tke first selected for the group was Ju Hyun Ok. She was scouted after winning a radio amateur competition. The second persQ.n waS' Jin Lee, who auditioned to be in the group with the help .!u Hyu/l. After th(lt came YuriSung, who was scouted while drawing in apark, andfinallyjobaed the group after auditioning in Janu- ary. }{yoriLeejoinedthegroup wher! she was sought after by a scout while taking sticker pic- tures. She auditioned andgot the part. Hyorl became the groups leader. Fin.K.L got their name- becCluse before the grouP' formed, they already had q PC fan club. The fan club name! them Fin. K. L and after they saw that, they decided to use that name since thetr fans already made it. This group is pretty young, and a lot is expected of them in the future. Respectivery, the eJdes tis 20 years old (HyoriJ, and the youngest is 18 (YurV. The other two are 19 years old. if you want to find out morr: about FIN.K.L, go 'to http:/f finlil. tsx.o rg/ The rumors are true. I am at FIN.KL fanatic. I am totally ill love -with this group. Some peo})'le may believe that I love the grou}) because they are young and pretty. But,. I choose to believe that it is only part of it. They are not onl)\\ pretty, but they are also good sin-,g- ers. Korean music has a special place in my heart, and of all the groups out there, FIN.K.L is the best in my view. Anytime I'm blue~ or feel lonely, I pop in their CDs (I have all their CDs by the way) and things seem to be oby\ They somehow touch my heart at times when I'm blue, and they are very entertaining at the same time\ I haven't missed any times they have been on Korean TV (inclu..C,... ing when their concerts are .broa<l- cast()n TV) The only thing I haven't done is g() to one of their concerts and haven't made it to the United States yet, but I plan to go to Ko- rea during the sQmmer and I hope that when I go 1 can see them in concert and meet them. For those of you that are wo11dering, it is much easier to meet Korean sing- ers and actors/actresses. You can say that people in South Korea \lsually don 'tgo as c~azy over stars .and starlets then people in the United States. B11t as. always, we have exceptions too. 1 believe that I myself have been star struck. I find FIN.K.L very adorable, Es- pecially Hyeri. I got to admit that Hyori is my favorite of the bunch. With me, Korean music plays a big role in my life. I've been listen- fig inon~.oreanmusic since I was a baby. I find that it helps me keep in tune with my Korean .side, wherever 1 am. Since i love Ko- rean music, and I love Korean girls, isn't it fitting that I would love a group like FIN.K.L? I don't care who ridicules me over this (like my cousin), but I am a FIN .K.L fan till death. The least I can do is show them loyalty, since they have been there when I was down. Many people might not understand what I'm talking about, but think of the time that you have loved a musical group or actor/actress. Why did yoqlike them so much? Because some- thing connected. <I feel a connec- tion with FIN.K.L. That is the truth. I really hope that they come to the United States to do a con- cert. A lot of people follow them, and love them. I would buy first row seats and backstage passes in a heartbeat. All this to get a glimpse of a group that I hold dear. Kind of funny really, but I'm proud to say that I like them. I first picked up their CD in '98 in Koreatown, Los Angeles (the Mecca of Korean calture ). Remember that I live in Pacific Palisades, California so it isn'ttha1 far from where lam. But, when 1 walk into Koreatown Plaza, I feel like I'm in another world all over again. It's awesome, and I feel in peace when I am in Koreatown. Everything feels familiar. I also felt this when I went to Korea last year for a term abroad. I loved Korea. Well anyway, back to the story. 1 had gone into a Korean CD store to pick up some CDs to listen to in the car. As soon as I enter, I !lee FIN.K.L's CD staring at me. 1 was in heaven. . hoping for a Korean female sing- ing group to appear (until FIN.K.L and SES, there weren't any). I walked in, and low <!Ild behold, I find what I'm looking. for. l shell out the 12 bucks and run into the car to listen j.nto what I've been looking for a'llthesey~;Jars. Before I know it, I'm bouncing up and down. I realize I'm loving it, aJid that is when 1 decided to become a big fan ofFIN.K.L. Call me crazy,. but it feltawesome. I have almost ~11 FIN .K.L merchandise and memorabilia. I love reading news about them, and anything else that I hear about them.. It's not easy being a fanatic however, because ~otnetimes people don't under- stand why you like them in the ftrst place. It's hard to brave the stares as you buy their CDS and their memorabilia, but it's all worth it in the end. You can get them signed later, and then they would be worth fortunes (at least for my- self). I hope someday that I can go to a FIN .K.L. concert and meet them. It may only be a dream perhaps, hut I have a friend that I met term abroad who works on their CDs with them. Hopefully, ifl can get in touch with him, I can make my dreams come true. But, this is only a dream. Regardless of if I ever meet them or not, I will continue to be loyal to them. They keep me :in a peace of mind, and they give me hope. A thankyou toFIN.K.L for toucl1ing my life, and continue with all the good work. I hope for lhe best, and I hope that they con- tinue to touch my life as they have in the past. Well, this is pretty much it. I know that I somewhat diverged from what I'm used to writing, but I felt it was due time that I pay trib- ute to FIN .K.L, and come out of the closet to say that I am indeed a fan. For awhile, I was in denial, but now I know the truth. I am a FIN.K.L fan, and there is nothing anybody can do about it. FIN.K.L forever!! See you guys next week. And thanks for reading and enjoy- ing my articles. Rest assured, Cornell girl will be coming up soon. A lot of you have been asking about her, and I promi$e that I will deliver. Keep on hoping, and I'll do my best to get you what you want. WelL..! got to run and watch the Super Bowl commer- cials now. See Y!l later, and take care of. ' > ~ ·Tbe. :Eeawr,es S:ectioxr . . . <'. - .. , : ·' ~~~a. *o····•·~t·:)t...·,:·;;;;,_''lt.:,.-i ~e····t··;·n· .··:a .............. t. , ·· · Hv IV.tv · ·-~; : ·o .:oo~~l\i:ci•s C¢nter. . ;_ -.~ .. , ·o;··¥~~:~·~-:it:m'·'··: ... b,:; .Jt ~s····ch· ··,~/~~·~·~':: .. ·. ~.'iJh~TJ.,.;~:,·~~~-·~Ji;l;:~\iii!~ :,; ... >;~~.·:~~ .: . . ·.. . : '·~~~.{~ . Fe -v; Me~ sess thin ·out noi~ rec~ :ts, I a sit I d< mat wal wit] fro.r Il hle~ talk to 1 peo has: cha you thrc and my Yo1 doil sag wai on out isg ent p]H wh WOI 1 tha yo1 ap< •

Features Instant Messenger Junkie ain:morlrien~ilt • February 3, 2000 ·Page 13 No Longer Crotchety ~---....:.~--,---~--,-- distracted by the fact that you case, they even list my hometown, and a pretty lax policy. I'm not by Jen Setlur don'tlrnow what's goingonmthe by Michaela Cautela which is an extra slap in the face) confessing to anything here, but in .. Stcif!Writer landofiM .. ,'Whatifsomeoneyou • Staff Writer and knowing that you will have reality, if you wantto drink, you What is it ~bout AOL Instant really want to talk to is onlioe?!! · class, come hell or frozen pipes, drink Just don't get found by Se- Messenger that has ev¢ryone ob- What ifthey.s.ign offbefore you're I am turning over a new leaf. I because your professor lives only curity on the steps of the library sessed with it? Maybe ithas some- done writing :your paper'? Yo11 are am, from here on in, going to look a few blocks fromm school. But mumbling incoherently, or worse, thing to do with the joy you get cnnstantlybothetedbytbis, sClyou at the brighter side of things, then you stop outside, and call me not mumbling at all. ·out .of hearing the little ringing can't get anything accomplished. · spending more of my time marvel- sentimental, but the campus looks Example Four: No stationed se- noisl! thatlets you know you have Aside from the increased. ri$k~ ing, and less time complaining. At so beautiful completely covered in curi ty guards at the doors of received a message. Whatever it of Carpal'-Tullllel Syndrom-e :ftom least this is what my mindsetisthis untouched snow ( oh, yes, it is still dorms. I went to visit a friend at is, people are crazy about it Not the hours of1Ming people, it takes week- most likely I will be back untouched at the ungodly hour that UMass Amherst, and not only did a single day goes by at schoolthat twice as long. to do homew{)r:k on · to my crotchety, disgruntled self I have class). Imagine the possi- I have to sign in for the night, but I don't hear the :Iitth~ ring. No the computerasitdidbefore_ {Of · next Monday, so have no fear. bilities. You could be at school at I had to give them my license. matter what lean always count on course, wearetltemastersofp:ro- Since my tenure as a Union stu- the U of Tampa, where you are Whoa, tiger. Take it easy. I'm not walking downthehallofmydorm crastination, so doing just !\\bout dentheganayearanda ·.---~--~~--~---------------.going to pull the fire with the sounds of IM coming anythinghesLdeshomeworkisap- . half ago, I think that alann or anything (A- fro.meveryditection. pealing). liihese are the<:onse- there is a distinct pos- \Call me sentimental, but HEM, Fiji). And at IM is both a curse and a quences of IM, why do we run to . ,sibility that I have read Villanova, guys can't blessing ... you all know what I'm ·our computer to see the ne:west • more \Top Ten Rea- the CampUS looks SO beauti- sign in girls or vice talking about. It's great to be able message? . sons Why Urtion Sucks fi [ l l d • versa. Here at good old to communicate with several Wehearthering,d.ropwbatever on Every Level\ lists ·· U COmp efe [J' COVere ln Un- Union, security justre- peopleatonetime, and without the it is we are cloing at the moment, . than I have handouts tOUChed SnOW. \ quests thatyoudon'tlet hassle ofa ]()ng distance phone andquicklychecktoseewh~tour. forclass.(Ifctnyofmy the guy from Howlers charge. I recently dlscGveredthat Buddies havetosay. Thisdo<esn't professors are reading go sneaking around you can actu.aUy speak to a Buddy seem at alllogic;al. What's 1h.e big . this, please understand Davidson. I don't think through a computer microphone, deal? They are probably j11stsay- · that I have mastered the art of the constantly imersed in the eighty and it's free! (This is grt::at since inghello,andiftheyhadaayth.ing • hyperbole.) Is Union really as bad degree sunshine, but then you my phone bill is out of co:rttrol). important to ~ay, they'd caiL De- as we all say? I myself have (mQre couldn't cut class to go skiing. It's Y em can see what your friends are spite this obvious, rational think- . than once) personally slung rotten all about opportunity cost, people. doing by readmg their ''away mes· ing, we all still do it,. and I'll ad- .· tomatoes at some of the schodl's Example Two: Classes. I like sage\ rather than have to call and mitthati'mj11st as ba:das tb~next .· policies, and while I am in noway my classes. I like my professors. I wait for the Octellady to answer, 1M-junkie. retracting my sentiments, I for like learning. I am also a raging or walk to their room only to find So what is it that we L()ve so · some reason feel this twinge of nerd:, but that is not the point. I out they're not home. While this much about IM1 It's more than guilt over my cynicism. So this have never needed help from a is great for the times when yol:l are just the fact that it's free and gives week's installment of my article is professor where I couldn't access entirely too lazy to pick up a us one more thing to do wnen we devoted to the things about Un.ion it through stopping by, picking up pl10ne, it sucks for those times want to avoid doing homework. that I like, and even ifl don't like the phone, or emailing. If I need when you actually have to do My guess is it's someone 's way them, I will at least give examples help and I don't want to see a pro- work. of messing with our heads: a con- of where things are a hell of a lot fessor, there is always the Writing It's impossible to sign offiM so spiracy to ey to make us fail out worse than here. Center, the Tutoring center, the that is too much to ask. Example Five: Food. Nope, not gonna touch this one. Example Six: Fun campus-wide weekend activities. If you will re- member last Spring, and the Party in the Garden, for example, or the W inler Carnival (this weekend, so C()me hear the Pipers and the Minstrelles), or the lobster bake, or Club U, or the Luau (if you d()n 't remember this one, it is be- cause it was the same Friday as campus crawl. .. I think I had a conversation with Dean Alford, but who lmows). So my cap goes off to you, Union, at least this week You're not so bad. that you can write your paper. If of school. Whatevetitis, we don't Example One: Snow. Sure, 111ere Ca).culus Crisis Center, etc. Yeah you dochoosetosigli off and type care ... justaslong as we still have . is nothing worse than listening to Union. Way to go on the academ- a paper instead, you are constantly our IM. the radio at 7:30AM and hearing ics. (Can you tell I'matourguide?) ------------~-----------~-- the 400 school cancellations (in my Example 1bree: Ample alcohol, 1-------------------~--~------~--------~------~------------------------- Looking for a job on campus? Like to talk on the phone? ..... ... In Need of Sleep -------~---- tomanypeopleonourcarnpus. In variably can't do because I'm so by Brian Kern fact, you're probably thinking tired. Fortunately, even the most Staff Writer right now about that week last tired like myself manage to get out As I sat in class last week, Jlray- ing for time to go faster, I couldn't help wondering what I had done the night before that I felt solousy. Or for that matter what I had not done. Then it occurred to me, I forgot to sleep. Well, I didn't ex- actly forget to sleep, I just ran out of time. I think this applies to a great majority of people on tllis campus, which is why I'm address- ing this topic. However, it is kind of a follow-up to my article from last week, so if you haven't read it you should do that first Or not, it probably doesn't matter. There are two interesting pbr~ses I'd like to bring to light. The first is \there's only twenty hours in a day,\ and the second is \I need a thirty hour day.\ Both phrases re- fer to the amounts of work stu- dents' do on this campus. Of course I bring this up basedorrlast week's article, but really, d.on't worry if you haven't read it. So last week was my worst weekever. Everybody has one of \those\ days, or weeks in this case. You know what I mean. The week when you're having a test in every · class, you have :nmltiple pape1s to hand in, hundreds ofpages t<> read · for each class, journal entries to do, and labs to write up. Well, th:atwas basically me last week, which is what inspired me to write thatother article. However, I know this happens term, or maybe last year, when at least one of those nights, usu- everything was due in every class. a.lly the night I'm not stuck in my If you are thinking about it, and I room doing work. know everyone who reads this ar- The interesting point that tide is, you will realize that every should be made here is how people single person on this campus, and connect through their lack of sleep. many other college campuses, has It really isn't worth complaining something in common. That com- about not getting any sleep, be- mon bond is our lack of sleep. cause there's no doubt that who- Don't get me wrong, I enjoy the ever you complain to probably challenge. In fact I really can't only got three hours of sleep any- blame my troubles on anyone else, way. I did try to explain my mis- as I was the one who chose to take haps in lab one day through the four classes this term. Unfortu- nately, that doesn't help make up for all the sleep I lost in one week. The real problem is the way it com- pounds every day. You probably think, I don't need sleep tonight, I'll make up for it tomorrow. But we all know that just doesn •t work. Evenifyouplan to go to bed early it never works. I can tell myself that tonight I'm going to get to sleep by midnight, but that doesn't make it happen. So I miss one night of sleep, and the next night I only get a couple hours, and so on until I can't keep myself awake in class. The ultimate problem lies in wait for the weekend. Friday and Saturday night are the only chances most of us get to make up sleep, unless you're one of those lucky people who has a day off during the week. So I could make up for lost sleep on the weekend; hut that's really the only time I want to stay up late, which I in- ex.cuse of lack of sleep, but of course that doesn't work around here. Complaints tend to he met with the typical comments like, ''oh yeah, sleep, I think I did that a couple days ago,\ or \sleep? What's that?\ So everyone on campus always has something to talk about. Unlike the rest of the world where they talk about the weather, we talk about how many hours of work we have and how little sleep we get So even though this column is about how rougll it can be to have so much work and get so little sleep, it also shows that we all have one more thing in com- mon. So don't worry about not getting sleep, do the all-nighter if that's what it takes; And always remember that very powerful saying about college, \You know you're doing well when your GPA is higher than the number of hours of sleep you get each night\

Austrian Freedom Party Threatens Region by Charles Ththill StqffWriter In a statement on Monday, the European Union announced that it would cut off political contact with any Austrian Governinent contain- ing the far right Far Right Freedom party. The Freedom party, which advocates a stop to all immigration and a halt to EU expansion, has alarmed many countries not only in the EU but in the world. Particu- larly alarmed was the country of Israel, which was appalled at some ofthe remarks oftheparty's leader Jorg Haider. Haider came into the spotlight about ten years ago for comments that he made in reference to Hitler's Third Reich. Haider, whose par- ents were both Nazis, called veter- ans of the Waffen SS \decent people of good character.\ He also went on to praise Hitler's \orderly employment policy.\ His state- ments have not helped to improve the reputation of his party, which many view as xenophobic and ul- tra nationalist. In fact, the group makes no at- tempt to hide its nationali§tic views. On the party's Web pages, it states that one of its goals is \to preserve and maintain the natural environ- ment and cultural heritage\ of the country. The group says that it would like to hand these values down to the next generation \in a worthwhile condition.\ In other words, the group does not favor immigration because they see it as a threat to Austrian heritage. Statements in favor of multiculturalism ironically balance the nationalistic views of the Free- dom Party. The group says that it does not advocate discrimination against minorities in any way. It believes that Austria's \natural culture and ethnic diversity\ are the countries \largest communal good.\ In fact, ethnic minorities are part of the group, including the prominent Jewish author Peter Sichrovsky. Sichrovsky wrote Born Guilty, which is based on in- terviews with the children of Na- zis. The group also appeals to the mainstream because of its strong stance on justice and the rule of law. The party does not believe in any sort ofredistributionof wealth, but says that it is \the duty of the community to help the needy.\ The party also says that \unjustified in- equalities\ will be recognized. The group also takes a strong stance on democracy. It believes that democracy \guarantees the highest degree of liberty and jus- tice, and in it all law must originate from the people.\ The party how- ever makes clear that it wants to avoid what many refer to as \tyr· anny of the majority.\ Democracy, according to the freedom party \may not lead to the oppression of a minority by the majonty.\ In sortie ways the Freedom Party considers itself a \civil rights movement.\ The party believes that it has a responsibility to re- store people's fundamental right to \liberty.\ The Freedom Party be· lieves that the best way of restor- ing liberty is by \liberating the citi- zen from political parties.\ They believe that the current political situation in Austria has made people r-eliant upon and chained to political parties. They believe the current political system dominated by the left of center Social Demo- crats and the right of center People's Party \aims to keep people dependant with regards to work and housing.\ The Freedom Party believes that this system \should be smashed\ because the parties \talk a lot about democracy but in truth strive to hinder the free citizen.\ The odd beliefs of the party have led many to make ominous links to Jean Jacques Rousseau's classic work the Social Contract. Accord- ing to Rousseau, democracy exists to find the \general will;\ the course of actions which is best for all of society. The general will is found through a vote of the people, who act as a legislature. This is similar to the belief of the Freedom party that \all law must originate from the people.\ Similar to the Freedom parties stance on \the tyranny of the ma- jority\ Rousseau distinguishes his type of democracy from John Locke's system, theorized in The Second Treatise of Government. In Locke's system the majority con- trols what is done in government and is the sum of individual wills. But in Rousseau, the majority fmds the general will, which is in itself the sovereign of the state. Therefore in Rousseau's system, the minority does not yield to the will ofthe majority, but to the sov- ereign. Freedom from the competi- tion of individual wills, each seek- ing what is best for themselves, is the goal of the sovereign. Thus by yielding to the majority, who happens to have found the gen- eral will, the minority, is \forced to be free\ according to Rousseau. This yielding does not lead to op- pression, but to a freedom the in- dividualistic wills that force people to constantly compete for the things that they want in life. Rousseau's concept of freedom is very similar to the Freedom Party's version. According to the Freedom Party people are con- stantly reliant on the representa- tion of political parties to attain what they want in life. The .party believes that this creates a \cartel of fear\ which \aims to keep people dependent [on parties) with re- gards to work and housing.\ The party's answer is to change this system into \a free democratic so- ciety in the sense of a community of solidarity.\ In other words the group seeks to use a form of de- mocracy which would stress the interest of the community over the individual, similar to Rousseau's system. The fact that the FPO considers its movement a ·~civil rightsmove- ment\ is also significant. When people e-nter into Rousseau's so- cjal C()ntract, they give up their \natural rights\ which include the unlimited accumulation ·Of prop- erty, at the expense <>f others. Phi- losophers and political scientists such as Karl Marx have stressed that these competitive forces have led to the exploitation of people. Using the principle of\economic deternllnism\ Marx stresses the fact that bl!sinesses must pay workers the lowest possible wage for the most possible workin order to com- pete with other companies and thus stay in business. According to Marx people must also compete for joh·s so that they can earn a liv- ing and feed their family. By gain- ing ''ci11ilrights\ in the social con- tract, people are free from the con- stant <Uld oftentimes brutal com- petitionneeded to make a living. The FPO ties this concept to political parties.. They, like Rousseau, believe that political parties are a medium through which groups of people exert their indi- vidual wills. Thus people retain their \natural right\ to competition through the party system. This is why tlle FPO declares that the cur- rentp()litical parties \talk a lot about democracy but in truth strive to hinder the free citizen.\ The FPO conceptof\socialjus- tice\ is something that has many leaders concerned. The term indi- cates that justice will be carried out on a social level. This means that once what is best for society is decided upon, then it will be car- ried out. As Rousseau says, the minority is \forced to be free.\ When thoughtful decisions, which beneff.t society are made into leg- islation I do not believe that this concept presents a.problem. How- ever, this may not always be that case as experience has shown. The dangel' in this concept is the pos- sibility of the rise of a dictator based on the concept of the com- mon good or some other pretense. For instance, Hitler carne to power in Germany under the pretense of Article48, after the burning of the Reichstag. This article gave him unlimited powers in the face of the perceived national crises. The concept oftlle rise of a cen- tralized power is something that Alexls de TocqU:eville touches upon in his classic. work Democ- racy in America. He believes that strong centralized governments often are able to come into power beca\lse people lose interest in what is going on in the politics. Tocqueville notes that because of the busy pace oflife people \can never, without an effort, tear them- selves from private affairs to en- gage in public business.\ He also goes 100 to say that when people do h~ve an interest in public af- fairs, they often do not have the time to attend to them. In his book The Power Elite, C. Wright Mills expands upon this idea by saying that people do not nave fuae to become experts in government. Therefore being con- fused ab()ut these matters they \must trusting children, place all. .. [oocision making power ].in the hands Oof ~xperts.\ This statement becomes more significant when taken v.tith a statement from histo- rianArtltllTSchl~singer' s book The Imperial Presidency. He believes that since the presi- dent is 11 gover111II,ent expert and people may not understand what he or she is doing, a \secrecy sys- tem\ ar()und presidency develops. SchEesiJ11ger goes on to say that \secrecy seemed to promise gov- enunent three inestimable advan- tages: tlte power to withhold;, the power io leak, and the power to lie ... \ Thus~ people may tnJst in a powerfill,political system that is not lead~g th.e country in a way they want it t<J;, and they may not even know.it. Schlesinger also describes how such a Jovernment might come to power. He believes that in current times '\ihe circumstances of an in- creas:in.g:ly perilous world as well as of ll1l increasingly interdepen- dent ec<rl!omy and society seemed to com]Jel' a larger concentration of power in the presidency.\ Schlesinger also notes that changes: in the economy confer \vast new economic powers not just on tl1e national government butffi()'!eparticularly on the presi- dency:'\ Mally believe that Haider has been pcpular because of economic change .. Austria is a member of the European Union and must abide by cemin EU decisions. One of these tf.ecisions would allow ·would allowf()Trnuch easier immigration within. tlte countries of the EU. Many Austrians are alarmed at these :increased rates and their fears llave been heightened by news dfthe expansion of the EU. The Czech Republic, Estonia, Hun- gary, Jloland and Slovenia have been inc:lllded on a list of first wave negoti:c~tions for entry into the EU while Illllgaria, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, and Slovakia have been includ.edon a second wave. These additions maynottake place for at least notlier five years. F•or the most put these countries are not as aff1.1tent as Austria and many fear t!Ut EU innnigration policies wiU :in:i!Ute foreign competition for jobs. Many voters turned to Haide£' s Party because ofhis anti- immig;rati.on stance. Many Austrian voters h.ave looked to Haider (whose party now C:()ntrols twenty-seven per- cent ()f the Austrian Nationa1rat) to s.olve: their economic pr-oblems. As llt:av:e shown earlier, the Free- dom •Party~ s actions are done in accord with the concept of the \co111r11ongood.\ lfHaider'sparty had a rr1aj.ority, much legislation woulibe passed in the same way. Leg;js lation which is pas.sed in the nUie of the \common good\ takes people out of the political process. In fact this i~ an aim of the party, which see:ks to liberate people from the \chains\ of politi- cal competitionunder the guise of \freedom.\ The wa,y Freedom :Party uses the word \freedom\ is misleading. This type of freedom would force people force people to abide by the party line, decided through a system of direct democracy. This is poten- tially dangerous becauseit allows for the resurgence ofa:n extremely powerful dictatorbeca:use of voter inaction, economic issues, and a general ignorance efthe affairs of state. Thus I believe ;that Austria Freedom Party is danger<> us for 3 basic reasons: The ideas of the Freedom Party are mainstream enough to be mis- understood by man)' voters. By \liberty and \freed()m\ they do not mean the liberty ud freedom of ideas. These wo:rds, as 1 have shown, are more rel~ted to a sys- tem which would sttppress per- sonal opinions. The s11me goes for their endorsement .()f democracy. By democracy the F-reed()m Party does not mean the existing demo- cratic system. They would over- throw this system and. incorporate on.e in which all otbe1political par- ties would not e~ist. This is what they mean by \liberating the citi- zen from political parties.\ Secondly, there exists within this system a potential for authoritar- ian or for totalitarian rule for the reasons I have described above. The problem with totalitaTian rule can be summed up lly one phrase from James Madis()n\s Federalist 10. Madison correcily declares that \enlightened s1a_tesmen will n()t always be at the helm., The eJC_perience of the twe11tieth century alene has shown -us that good leaders are often hard to come by. Thirdly, the concept ofholding to the party line is especially trou- bling. One needs ()n]y to look at the long and bleak tde ofStalm to see the consequences of this type of democratic centralization. Those who went against the party line during Stalin's role were purged - that is they wete either killed, imprisoned, or d iscrirninated against. Many hist<>rians believe that as a result of tlt~se frequent purges, Stalin was responsible for more deaths than Hitler was. Un- der Stalin censorsbiJl was imposed and the free exchange of ideas came to a halt. Under the Freedom Party of Austria, the country would start to move in the opposite direction that it is moving in right now. The cur- rent democratic system would come to a halt and the potential for another Stalin woald be brougbt home to the Austrian people and to the world. I believe that fC>reign leaders are right to oppose any government containing the Freedom party, and I do not think tltat we can do enough to make sure this danger- ous party .does not con1e to power.

Ql:onr.or.bmtsie • Febr11ary 3, 200~ ·Page 15 News·Analysis: State of the Union Address by David Gruner Stcif.!Writer On Thursday, Ja.iJ,uary 27,. 2000, President Clinton spoke to the na- tion in what was to be his last s•ate of the Union Address. The spe<;ch gave President Clinton the oppor- tunity to make sur.e his legacy would notbe coined, \lame duck:' Instead, Clinton used his elegant elocution to promote his ambitious and activist comtnander ip_ clhief persona whose recent misfortunes have all but been forgotten. He opened his speech in declar- ing the state of our union as the strongest ever. The speech was lang and verbase to say the least, reaching the upward of ninety min• Utes. From reflections on the past to proposals and challenges for the future, the President demanded that America cantinue to take the lead as the new millennium begins. Only theil, will the Americanpeople begin to reap the rewards of our country's longest peaceti:r:ne eco- nomic expansion ever. From a smaller federal workforce, to the end of\welfate as we. know it,\ to a decline in crime, Clinton congratulated his administration in its recent feats. He connected America being able \to dream big _dreams\ a direct effect :from his policie~. A somewhat rash state- ment from someone who has spent the last couple of years corned in controversy and an impeaclunent trial, all th.e while working with a Repu.blican Congress. Yet, Clinton seemed llilaffected. l{e looked forwards, turning to- wards a \21st century American RevolU.tion.\ More specifically, he asked Congress to appropriate some of th.e surplus for education, wanting every kid to enter ~chool ready -to learn, later to graduate, :prosperity for all Americ .. ans. In order to benefit from the sur- plus, the government must spend money on providing stricter guns 1aws, issuing tax credits for fami- lies having a difficult time paying :for their children''s education and overall tax burden. The President asked the joint session of Congress to allocate more funds for conserving our na- tiQnallandhlarks, fromthe CalifQr- nia Redwoodsto the Florida Ever- glades. He aggressively laid out an agenda wh.ereby the money ntunity was a reality and therefore America must -embrace its exist- · ence. From supporting China's petition into th.e World Trade Or- gallization, to America's role in the Middle East, to stopping the -eth- nic cleansing in Kosovo, Clinton made it apparent that in order for America to survive in the next cen- twy \mature\ Security was the driv- iag impetus forlongevity. Alongside America's desire to continue leading in the next era, it had to spend money on improving science and technology, cutting . . , ~'~¥ii~V~¥~)(#ij;,~.i[ffesJdent···commend the Republican lediiil~r:;slltij):~itil\ltig::.iJi credit him-sellf,· · fiorgetting the :• :c.,-._ •'' ,:;;; C, '~'-> ··,',}'!';,' ', . • ~·:> 'J . . .· . . •. ' . ·.. 1 . . . .. . , Ja¢'t·.tfjat.il>w!i:ti .. th,e~_:cortservative.sect of the House and .· ~~ftJ){fJ:t~at'h41aneed'_the budget, reformed welfare, and con~~~~ntJall}l ena:bled the country tt;J experience the ready ~to &ucceed. He then moved onto the theme of families, and Medicare, gun control, and tax credi~- A,:nd every time be reverted back t<J the fact the coUJJ,try with all of its recent success must look at these issues as the cornerstone to the country's continuation of · ·.: · surp· : lus~ ·\ • ,: ' • > •• •• ' • • :• • generated from the surplq;s would be spent on more govemmental programs, all the while paying off the national debt, decreasing out trade deficit, and formulating el- ementary tax credits. Internation- ally, the President made it appar- ent tb.at the evolving global com- back on greenhouse gases, and CIDndemning hate crimes. Accord- ing to Clinton, that was \un-Ameri- can.\ The underlying message of hjs visions: spend money, and spend a lot Only once did th.e President com- mend the Republican leadership, taking most of the credit, himself, forgetting the fact tliat it was the conservative sect of the House and Senate that balanced the budget, reformed welfare,and consequen- tially enabled the country to expe- rience the surplus. Not once did Clinton approve of the quality of work the Republica:nCongress has accomplished since the 1994 elec- tions, spending the allotted time in between sentences for his Vice President, AI Gore. It was pure Dem()cralic partisan- ship that has entered its last year as the sole voice in Washington . And there it is. Clinton addressed the nation for the lasttime as Presi- dent of the United States. It may not quite yet have been his fare- well address, but was surely the beginning of a year whereby his role as President will be overshad- owed by the upcoming elections. No longer will the country care how Clinton ends his presidency; that is up to the historians to de- cide and should everything remain unchanged for the most part, they have certainly already begun to write his obituary. The power doesn't lie with \Slick Willie,\ but withthatman who-will takeover a year from now and bring with him what has been missing for the past eight years: character. New Hampshire Results In r UNION ~ l ' ' by Neil Routman World News Editor Stephen Nemeth StqffWriter One .of the most crucial tests of the burgeoning Republican and Democratic Presidential campaigns ended at 7:00 PM Tuesday in the small but important state of New Hampshire. As voters filed fi~om their polling places results showed Arizona Senator Jolm McCain with a comfortable victory over Repub- lican favorite George W. Bush and Vice-President AI Gore with a nar- row victory over former New Je:r- sey Senator Bill Bradley. The Granite ~tate of:New Hamp- shire has long been a measuring stick of a camp~gn' sorganizational and promotional skills. Being the earliest primary, it serves a role by gauging the public's initial inter- est in the political process. His, torically, a candidate must win in New Hampshire to the win the nomination~ the exception lin re- cent years being in 1992 whe11Bill Clinton lost. Entering the first major te:st of each campaign, the p~ was seen as major test between the upstart campaigns ofMcCaill and Bradley versus the favorit~;::s .of Bu~h. and Gore. Each of the chal~ lengers fought for a. brge. share of the valued independent votes of New Hampshke~a criticaleleme.nt in a state well known for its swing; votes. The campaign of John McCam ha:s centered arorind the rejection of special interest groups and a strong support of campaign fi- nance reform. This issue has been one of cor- nerstones of his campaign, \Re- form of our campaign fmancing laws is the first change necessary to restore faith in our political pro- cess and make government ac- Col.'lntable to the peopk\ McCain 1riumphed over Bush with. a. 16 percent win with a stron- ger than expected showing. Other uThEf :·Grti#ite State·· .. o~~irll;~t:¢, ' .·meas~rtttg·stick·ota··.· ,'~:::=~~ .•·. · ·,o.:.ttdti!'()tlldtt~J;naJ · . . . . ' : : :: fa..t{: ;, .. : > .. . ·.· . iS' :· $.,. •j . >' ' Republican contenders. included millionaire publisher Steve Forbes with 14 percent, Alan Keyes with 7 percent, and conservative activist Gary :Bauer with 1 percent. George W.Bush, the early favor- ite to win the nomination, has built a huge campaign machine with the support ofmanyprominentRepub~ licans, and a large support base. Bush set a precedent by foregoing federal matdling funds and by rais- ing over $70 million in campaign capjtaL Despite McCain's victory na- tional polls indicate that Bush re- mains the favoritete win the nomi- nation. The sheer size of Bush's campaign treasury virtually en- sures a ticket on the ballot barring a disastrous mistake or a heroic victory by the upstart McCain. With the Bush budget at more than $70 million, McCain still has an uphill battle to challenge the Texas governor. McCain poured in millions of dollars and spent most ofhis cam- paigning time in New Hampshire while Bush spent only a moderate ·effort to secure his primary victory. With South Carolina as an upcom- ing primary, Bush aheady has il- lustrated a substantial lead against all other candidates. With the luxury of cash flow, theBush. train speeds to sure victory. On the Democratic side, Vice President Al Gore soundly de- feated former New Jersey Senator Bill Bradley in a projected 62 to 34 percent win. Gore fared well amongst the traditional democratic constituencies such as the state teachers' unions, women, orga- nized labor, and wealthier voters. The Gore camp called thls stunning victory a \comeback\ fot the Vice President over a campaign that has outspent him and at one point had a substantial lead. Formoreinfonnationon the can- didates visit their respective web sites at www.mccain2000.com~ www. georgebu sh.com, www.billbradley. com. and WW\V.aore2000.om itrrr Ann.ua1 Giving WE NEED MANAGERS! Annual Giving Affiliates Program We are looki,ng for folks who: *can start now and continue next year *are Sophmores and/or Juniors *have leadership experience *are able to commit to the program for a minimum of a year For an application and more details stop by the Annual Giving office or call x6174.

Thoughts On Robert Pinsky by Kimberly Rahback A&E Editor On January 26 the Poet Laure- ate of the United States, Robert Pinsky, graced the Nott Memorial with a reading and a lectu:re. Pinksy's \performance\ brilliantly illuminated and reinforced his be- lief that \poetry is a vocal, which is to say a bodily, art. The medium of poetry is a human body ... po~ .etry is just as physical or bodily an art as dancing.\ He read hls own poem, \Samurai Song,\ a poem he wrote about his shirt, which delved into his notion of a collective humanity comprised of history and the present ever- changing globe, an \Ode to TV,\ and he fmished with a poem about \his pea-green piano which his parents sold while he away at school.\ To watch Mr. Pinsky at the podium recite these powerful words from memory, replete with allusions, phonetic mastery and manipulation of the English lan- guage, with only an occasional glance at the text, in his baritone voice, was awe inspiring, As he recited each work, using perfect diction and pacing, he stomped his feet behind the podium (a view I was afforded by sitting up-front) reasserting the notion of poetry as a physical art. The readings of his own poetry were interspersed with poems se- lected from the Norton's Anthol- ogy of Americans ' Favorite Po- ems. The book, which was re- cently published as a supplement to the \Favorite Poem Project,\ is a selected series ofletters, written to Pinsky and his staff by average Americans explaining why the poem they attached to the letter is of particular significance. One was an ancient Greek poem sent in by a social worker from Detroit, another was a tale of female warrior sent in by an unsatisfied housewife. Pinsky then outlined for the au- dience his \Favorite Poem Project.\ As the nation's Poet Laureate, Pin- skyis also an advisor to the Library of Congress, a most important clause in his title as explained his national poetic initiative. He men- tioned that America, unlike many Asian or European nations, do not have an elitestrata of society which · dictates and judges art and culture. Poetry in America does not possess the snobbery and aristocratic quali- ties and connotations with which the ancient art is popularly associ- ated. Americans simply enjoy po- etry. Poetry book sales are up. His project has been met with nothing b11t astonishing support and par- ticipation. Pinksy' s \Favorite Poem Project\ aims to fmd Americans of all types, ages, races, religions, geographic locations, economic backgrounds, etc. and have them reC()rd their favorite poem on. a tapel The only rule is thatthe poem canl1 not be your own, or written by a friend or family member. Towns and cities have rallied around the project as it progresses across the. nation. Pinsky has attended numerous po- etry \celebrations\ where hun- dreds of people gathered to share a \favorite poem.\ Children, doc- tors, construction workers, and ac- collntants alike have been sharing. He hopes for the project t'O con~ tinue working its way across America. He described his adver- tising budget as \$4. 00\ so it is up to the people who hear him speak, or read his work, to keep it going. After his plug for the \'Favorite Poem Project,\ Pinsky entertained questions for twenty minutes. Subjects ranged from Pinksy's translation of Dante's Inferno, to his sources for inspiration. Pro- fessor Tann asked him about the use of the name Herbert Grover in his flrst poem about the shirt. Pin- sky gave a beautiful explanation that this man who lived in fhe sev- enteenth century and wrote poetry would fmd him to be an alien fig- ure not fit to write poetry. He is a middle-class, Jewish boy fr<>m New Jersey who writes poems about television, and yet he and this sev- enteenth century British aristocrat share the same talent and passion. This was his beautiful explanation for using a relatively little known poet in a poem which details the billions of lives and perso-nalities that have gone into the production ofhis sh~rt. For each of the poems be read, he introduced another aspect ofb.is personal life and his thoughts on his art to help explain the creation of the words on the page. He talked at length about his family Reviews: The Shawshank Redemption., The Green Mile by Jessica Brearton Staff Writer The Green Mile and The Shawshank Redemption appear to be very similar movies, an<i in many ways they are. They both take place in a prison, for instance, both are based on novels by Stephen King, both are directed by Frank Darabont, and the cen- tral relationship in both is .a com .. plex interracial friendship. But though the similarities appear striking, The Green Mile and The Shawshank Redemption are very different films. The former uses the backdrop of a L<>uisiana prison's Death Row for a super- natural tale of the miracles oflife and the horrors of death. The lat- ter uses the backdrop of a Maine prison for a moving tale of hope and friendship. The Shawshank Red~mption opens with Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) sitting in his car, hold- ing a gun in his hand, visibly up- set. We learn soon that he has been betrayed by his wife, and that the next day her body and that of her lover would be found mur- dered, a crime Andy wonld spend decades of his life in prison for. As Andy walks through the prison gates for the first time, Red Redding (Morgan Freeman) and other pris- oners stand taking bets on which of the new inmates would be the first to crack Red, who from the in- stant he begins narrating is the voice of knowledge and authority within the prison walls, puts his money on Andy. He loses. And thus begins a friendship that car- ries the movie, a friendship forged ill silences and quiet talks, through respect and understanding. Red's is the voice of the story, but the story itselfbelongs to Andy. Red~ s narration tells of the grow- ing respect both he and his fellow prisoners felt for him, the man who never losthope in a seemingly hope .. less situation. The actors, most re- markably Freeman and Robbins, are excellent, especially considering the lack of o:ver .. the-top material. The actingis in general understated and guarded, but still true and power- fuL Ultimately, the film succeeds because of this. It is the tale of these twomen,and were eitheroftheper- for:mances below par, the film would 11ot succeed. It does, thou,gh, With the perfect balance of capable per- formers, true characters, and ab- sorbing story. The idea behind The Green Mile is an intriguing one- a black ac- cused child murderer in the Depres- sion-Era south being discovered as having miraculous healing capabili- ties. Michael Duncan, a relative newcomer, :Plays this pivotal role ·of John Coffey extremely well, just as the rest of the cast do their re- spective parts. His towering strength contrasted with the gentleness of his spirit was touch~ ing, as was the tragic nature ofhis plight. I feel the film would have beneflted from a more intense fo- cus on the relationship between Paul Edgecombe (Tom Hanks), a benevolent prison guard, and Coffey, as they are the two most interesting characters in the fllm. They are drawn somewhat multi- dimensionally, unlike many other characters in the film.. IHh.ere is a true fault to the movie, it is the fre- quency of one-dimensional char- acters. Characters like Percey Wetmore, the spoiled prisDn guard, and Wild Bill Wharton, the out of control prisoner, seemingly exist for the sole purpose of being really mean to the main characters. Oth- ers, like Edgecombe's assistants and his wife, are positive charac- ters with very little cDmplexity of · character, ultimately diminishing the impact of the film. and 11i:s mether' s head disease, their use of the television as a mea11s of escape, and his use of the piano for the same reason. Base(\ on his obvious talent and his innpressive thoughts on poems and 11umanity, I woqld consider RobeJ!t Pinsky to be a most honor- able Foet Laureate. 'Ibere was, however, one point in tbe lecture which I found tather distrubing. Approximately thirty minutes into the presentation, Pinsky was in the middle ofread- ing a. paoem and a young man in the audie11ce got up to lea:ve. Admit- tedly-,bis exit was a disruption. This weather lends itself to squeaky shoe:s ·and ruffling co~ts. Pinsky stopped the reading as the young man was leaving and said, ''Man that is so rude, you couldn't have at least waited until I was between poems? I am not a TV you know. I can see you leaving.\ The young man ctuickly apologized, said he had to go to work, andleft. Pinsky conbtlued to explain that this is what's wrong with-our generation. He tllen explained that he did not mea:tl to ruin the evening but he ho}Jed that the young man would not ~O.rget the. embarrassing inci- dent. The Poet Laureate of the United States,. or anyperformer for th<;atmfitter, CCimfilands enough re-. speC:t 'to wait 'tintil there is a bie'ak bef<rl'e an audience member gets up to 1e:ave. I found his reprimanding the young man disturbing, as he had jllst fmished reading about the you11g children in Indonesia who made his shirt, and the women. who died in the sweatshop in New York decades aso making shirts. Young people; particularly those who work (i.e. this young man) and find time to make it to a poetry reading do not deserve such a .scathing cor11:mentary upon their departure. Given the noticeable age gap that existed in the audience{ there were far fewer students than adults) I thoughtthatthis young man's half an hour of devout attention and hasty departure warranted perhaps a joke. I did not apprec:iate Iris treat- ment of apd generalization about my generation. Role mod:els are equally accountable for the \decay of out society,\ which P:inSky feels is so pro:rninentin we~temculture. Robert Pinsky, you are:a very in- teresting man who has been granted a tremendous gift. I fmd yolll' ideas and efforts to piOmote the recitation of poetry ill class- rooms andstadiwnsalik:enoble and endearing. I only wish you applied your beautifully contrived lines of feelingand sen,sitivityto your ev- eryday life. Perhaps this particular lecture was held on i bad day, or his outburst was a bump in an oth- ervvise respectable and kind public persona. If this is the casei apolo• gize. If not, I hope that any future -representatives of modern culture , and academics takes these words to heart. No one will ever be so \laudable\ they will have earned the right to abuse the people who lend their ears to their words and their hearts to their thoughts. by Sanskriti Thakur

Arts &:; Entertainment . <IInncnrmensiB • February 3, 2000 • Page li\ · ·· Paxton to Perform in Albanv \A singnlar vision, one that O......!s fut songwriting, PID<ton has ping l!lllll fmery and left standiDg things will be left undone.\ It is to ered by in,Zstry legend Nat W d;s, must behe-a£'d in its entirety.\ recently released his !';econd EP al- bn tile \bad side\ of the velvet this friend'smemory that the EP is who guided the careers of Tl:te . Paxto11, a singer-songwriter,, will limn, Ginger's Dish. The albU111is a rope. Intrigued by \the idea of in- dedicated. Beatles, Bonnie Raitt, Cat Stevens be taking the stage at Valentine's four-song EP that weaves together fusing anger into lyrics with()u t The recording studio where ·he and James Taylor. in AJ.bany()n F el>ruary 19 at 1'0 PM. ]'Jt:~re fantasies with embellishments coming across as totally negathe records is located in a former bar Paxton and his band will be tooc' Pax1o11 b.a~ been described as a o!fXea.lity; blurring the line so that and depressing,\ Paxton took his on an .old ranch in Woodstock, ing extensively to support the re- master Qf\CV[1 melody and provo- 1me song becomes fact. The f:Ltst ownexperiences and created a:.de- New Y otk. The environment is lease of the EP. Last year, he per- catiQn. With his unique way of .song on the album, \What's it Like ceptively cheerful song. \I am co.n- perfect for acoustics where the formed national at such venues a,s looking at the Work! and turning ig,be You,\ describes the situation ~ tant ly angered by Madison walls keep secrets to themselves. The Viper Room and The Whiskey every day situations into toaclub,dressedinshop- Avenue's way of selling Sttuckbytheruggedbeautyofthe GoGoinLA,SanFrancisco'sThe ' ' ,j . 'lifestyles' thatdon't :feallyexist,\ ar'ea,he abandoned New York City Fillmore and New York City's he says. \I've often wondered and moved into a remote Victorian CBGBs. Paxton has played colleges what it must be like to be one ,()f house. across the country, and his CD re- the 'beautiful people' if, in fact, Pa~ton designed the cover for ceived airplay on over 400 college they,existat aU. This sllng is f()r all Ginger's Dish himself, as well as radio stations over a six-month who are left on the wrong .side (lf designing his own posters and period. Paxton was the rnost nomi- the -velvet rope.\ tee-shirts. nated band at the 1999 GLAMA Inspired by his relationship wi tb. An Indiana native, Paxton was A wards and won for Best Band. ~tF()rdmodel, \A Little Better\ e:x- ali orphan by ,11.ge twelve. During Paxton is working on a full CD~ ploresshallow and superficial em;()• his mid-teens he took to the road slatedfor.release in Spring 2000. timts disguised by forms of self- with his mom's guitar and a fake Paxton's show at Valentine's is delllsion. \It's a take on the peo~le lD, working odd jobs by day and sure to be a testimony to his in- who pretend that every day and p.erforming in clubs by night. credible talent. For more informa- eYery way, things are a little better Paxton eventually laRded in Nash- tion calliSL PR at 212-541-7595. when, of course, :they are not,\ the ville. Rejected for the black humor artist explains. and urban sexual drama that color \How the Love Turns Around\' his songs, Paxton fled In New York is tlie frrst'love song Paxton wrote. at The Bitter End he was discov- Compiled by Lori Greene A&E Editor \I've always thought it was ironic r---~~-------------------- that my first love song was mOie about heart break than anytlling else~\ he muses. \I've probably rec()rded ten different versions cf this song over the last six years .\ It was, no wever, the first soag Paxt()ll played for Sire Rec()fds President, Seymour Stein, and g()t him llis first developmental deal witlu major labeL Tbe fmal song is appropriately . entitled \The Closing,\ featuring Paxton in a solo performance. \'I wrote about the feelings l was hav- Love's Fire by Kristina Dorne Staff Writer of the other one act plays in Loves Fire are done by modern play- wrights. Wendy Wasserstein wmte Waiting/or Philip Glass. She is also famous for writing The- Heidi Chronicles. All of these C()urtesy of ISL Public Relations ing after walking int<J my be:st I really did not know what to expect when I trotted up to the Yulman Theater on Friday night to do a promo for Love 's Fire, a se- ries ofseven one act plays that is glling up in a couple of weeks. That play that I stayed for the du- ration ·Of was Waiting for Philip Glass. This was a very witty and funny play with good acting from all of the actors. This play was about a party in which two lovers reminisced about their relationship an<l tried to. impress each other with their new mates. Waiting/or Pkilip Glass is full of bawdy and raucous sexual humor. plays are based on Shakespeare plays. But one can really see that the playwrights have put a nine- ties spin on them. Singer~song~~riterPa:xton friend's apartment after his deatlt. It m.:~de me realize that no matter how much we plan for our deatlh, 'lie o/aoina !Monafoaues Pe6ruary 14, 2000 l:'OOp,m .in OflCfzape{ The sexual humor is blunt and the actors do not mince words. There is plenty of swearing and sexual innuendo all over the place in the play. But it also addresses l<Jts of issues that cut to the heart of the different feelings that people experience when they are in rela- tillnships. More than anything it seems that Waiting for Philip Glass is about love and romantic relationships.. The feelings that the characters in the play experi- ence are feelings that lots of people experience when they are in rela- tillnsllips. Shakespeare plays always con- tained a little bit of sexual innuendo in them but these plays contain them all <Jverthe place. Love :S Fi're is also not done in Shakespearean English. The plays in Love's Fire do not gloss over the complexities oflove. They are full of the anxiety that people do go through in real life. Temptation and betrayal are feel- ings that people do experience when they are falling in and out of love. But that is what makes the plays so interesting. There is noth- ing false about them. They are re- ally honest and true to life. This was what I liked so much about the plays. They are truthful and full of complicated emotions. Another thing that the viewer notices about these plays is that they are full of profanity and blunt sexual humor. It is refreshing to watch a play that deals with the issue of sexuality in an open and frank way. In many ways our soci- ety is still very sexually repressed. We see sexuality as something to be ashamed of. Love 's Fire is sexu- ally honest in a way that is more truthful than distasteful. \Till\ Vagina Mo:11clogues\ is part of the V ~Day !000 College Irtitlative, a nationaL effort to end sexual violence against :women and to.1rodaim Valelltine's· Day .as the day to celebrate women and de1.11artd the end o1.abuse. Ticke!S will be sold in the College Center The line Waiting f~r Philip Glass is repeated hy the main fe- male character several times throughout the play. Although Pllilip Glass is actually a wealthy gaest who is supposed to come t() her party a'iittlebit later, it seems that she is waiting for more than just a guest. She keeps saying that she is waiting for Philip Glass. What is interesting is thatshe says it in almost a wistful tone of voice, like she is waiting for something that she has not yet found. We never see whether or not she ac- tually finds it but we can only hope that she does for her llwn sake. But she could be waiting for some- tiring or someone that is UJ:irealis- tic or unattainable. When asked what the best word to des<Jribe Love's Fire would be, one of the actors would chose the words raucous. and raunchy. These words would aptly describe the plays but they are a lot more than simply sexually daring. They are honest and truthful with their viewer in a way that many plays and other forms of entertainment are not. I would say Love ·s Fire is a play that is worth checking out. It is unlikely that the viewer will really feel that they have been wasting their time. · the 7 1 h throtlgll the CJf:h. for $2 or :tickets can be reserved by c.:•mailing t·eq-uESts to .dowd~union.edtl~: The proceeds will be d(jnawd to the Sdttmectady YWCA hou.c;ing unit Waitingfor Philip Glass and all

''Bringing Traditional Collegiate Athleticism into the 21st Century'' . . . .. - . . . . Women's. Sacred B~art 6 Union 0/ Union 3 Cotm. Colllege Z Skating Dutchmen Have Positive Road Weekend Tie with Yale, Win Against Princeton MoVe$ Team Up in Standings byD.J.Book Staff Writer This was just what the Skating Dutchmen needed. The team rec()rded a tie and a win in the weelend road trip to improve its plac;e in the standings. Union traveled to Yale University on Friday night, November 28, to take on the Bulldogs, and on Saturday nigllt, the Dutchmen traveled to Princeton University to take on the Tigers. Atthehalfwaypointofthe ECAC season, Union needed a big weekend to improve their status as a winning team. With that in mind, the Dutchmen returned to campus early Sunday morning after an llldefeated weekend against two touglJ. teams. Uni<>n now stands at 5-<i-1 in the conference, and the team can reach .500with one more vict<>ry. On Friday night, Union matched up against a tough Yale University team. The game was televised on NESN, and the frequent col11Illercial breaks :Seemed to slow the game down a1 times. Yale scored the only goal of the first period. when they capitalized on a Uni()n miscue as two Dutchmen ran into each other at center ice, and as ~ reSlllt, a two-()n-one ensued against S()phomore goaltender Brandon Snee. Although the Bulldogs struck first blood, fres!llnen forward Nathan Gillies scored his fust goal of the season and of his college hockey career at Union with about five minutes rema:ining in the second period. Gilli-es scored 011 a two-on-one opp()rtunity that was set up nicely by sophomore defenseman Charles Simard. Gillies was a late placement Thursday night into Union's line-up, but he nonelheless found the back of the net and tied the game, 1-1, for the Dutcllmen. Umion applied offensive pressuYe early and often in the b~ginning of the third period, and as a r-esult, took a 2-llead. Junior forward Alex Todd scored his fifth goal of the season about six minutes into the final period. Simard recorded his second assist of the game with a dandy of a play as he penetrated Yale's defensive zone and created a two-on-one down low. Simard's shot on net was directed wide of the net, but Todd scooped it up in the comer and spun around with a quick wrist shot that surprised sophomore goaltender Dan Lombard. Yale counterattacked shortly thereafter and scored a power-play road. He said, .. Hitting is a big part of our game. We obviously aren't the biggest team in the league, but we work hard and throw the body around to our advantage. It helps us control the game and keep our opponents on their heels.\ Union unofficially out-hit Yale, 62-30, in the game, and sophomore goaltender Brand()n Snee turned in a strong performance between the pipes while recording 27 saves. He was named the game's .third forward Jason Ra·lph scored his team-leading ninth goal of the season with assists to junior forwards RyanCampbell and Clark Jones. Ralph skated full ... speed into Tiger defensive territory and unloaded a slap-shot from just inside the blue line. Ralph's blast turned out to be the game-winner as he heat freshmen goaltender Nate Nomeland low 't();the stick side~ The both teams tightened up defensively, and neither team File PhQto Union has begun the second half of the season on a good path for success. goal to .knot the score at 2-2, which ended the game's scoring. Union fought for a hard-earned tie on the road against a tough Yale team. Coach Kevin Sneddon agreed, \The boys played hard, and we almost pulled out a win. I was real proud of them. They played physical and tenacious out there against a fast team like Yale.\ Simard, who recorded two assists in the game and a number of great body checks, was named player of the game. Later, Simard was asked to reflect on the team's game plan on the star. On Saturday night, Union battled the Princeton Tigers who experienced a tough loss, 6-2, the night before at home against RPI. Princeton scored first with a power-play goal exactly eleven minutes into the first period, but sophomore forward Doug Christiansen responded only 1:57 later as he knotted his fourth goal of the season with assists to Todd and sophomore forward Jeff Hutchins. The Skating Dutclnnen then took the lead, at 2-1, about three minutes later as junior scored in the second period. With forty seconds left ill the third period, Campbell scored his fifth goal of the season as he shot the puck the length of the ice and into the open net. The Tigers had pulled their goaltender in favor of an extra attacker, but Campbell's shot sealed the v;ctory for Union, 3-1. The Dutchmen out-shot Yale 30-18 in the game.. Campbell received first star ()f the game honors, and Ralph was chosen the third star. Coach Sneddon was pleased with the total weekend perfonnance of the team. He stated; \It was a great defensive effort (Union anowed only three goals in two games), and we need that since we know that we're not ;going to score more than four or five goals every game. We have a well~balanced team where everyone contributes. We have a short week cottring up since we play on Thursday~ and I feel we'll be ready play well against a good Dartmouth team.\ Union has next weekend off, February 4and 5, bu.1will face-off against Dartmouth University on Thursday night, February 3, at home at A chillies Rink. Game time is seheduled for7:00. The Skating Dutchmen, who ffi()Ved up two places in the standings into seventh place in the ECAC, need your support as they battle for a playoff spot. Come out and support the team!

I ' Sports (!!munrmensis • February 3, 2000 • Page 19 ·Track Team Competes at Wesleyan Invt. by FrankFilici()tto Staff Writer It has been said coantless times that each person OT group of persons will e1J.joy fifteen minutes of fame. and glory sometime throughout the course of their natural existence. I am not going to say that the Union Track and Field Team experienced. fifteen minutes under an intense and illuminating spotlight. But certainly, Ic;an state that they spent seven hours learning about their nature under a light, which led them from the dim and into the radiant. There is a <listinct correlation one can draw between a track meet and the nature oflife llre motivations for hoth challenges arc similar, as are the goals. A person stands at the starting lim·. nwticmless. waiting for the gun to sound. When it stmnd~, it blasts and life commences. From that poin,t on the runner is challenged with internal and external quagmires as the path around the track is followed. The middle part of the race is the most difficult and, as I have heard, so is the middle .part oflife itself. More often than not, the runner must dig deep to find more of the quickly depleting supply of energy and the endless supply of ,guts. As the runner makes the turrt toward the final lap all tiredness transcends to power and the once weakenedb()dyradiateswith glory when the line has been crossed. The mind is freed and the runner is illuminated, The story of1ife . I feel as if this past weekend's experience at the Wesleyan Invitational epitomized the statements above. Hard work and dedication was put into the equ(ltion and nothing but pride and sportsmanship carne out -of the equation. In a more lay terminology, Union placed third overall out of thirteen teams, a performance the college has not seen in a long time. For the third meet in a row the field events carried Union a long way. Kris Darlington placed in all tllree of the jumps totaling fourteen points for the team. Justin Sievert placed third in the shot put with a tl!row of over l3 .5 meters. Along with Darlington, Chris Burns and Stt;phen Erickson placed first and fifth in the highjump with jumps of f>'2\ and 6 '0\ respectively. Finally. Adam Schwaber finished :lied for seventh in the pole nult \Vith a heightofll'6\. There were no holes barred in events off the track. The depth of the Union field team was proved gloriou!'i again scoring thirty of Union perpetual sixty-eight total points. And back onto the big oval: Everybody knows that crazy, multi-:event man known as Jerald Whittington. Not only did he nm the 4X400 and the open 4QO, M.r. Whittington placed second in the 55 hurdles with a time of 8.46 seconds. That puts him in the top ten in the state and guarantees him a spot at the State Meet in F:reddnia. Sprint Sensation Astu K.aneko also. racked up the fame at this weekend's meet by placing 5th in the 55-meter dash and 9th in the 200 .. rneterdash with times of6.83 and 23.90 seconds, respectively. Sophomore Tony Fyke$ had himself a breakthrough meet by f:mishing 11th in the 200-meter dash and 1Oth in the 400 meters with times of24.18 and 53.66 seconds, respectively. The distance runners performed equally as well by scoring twenty-five total points. An upset victory in the 800 meters by Freshman Matt Weber energized Union to score more points. Junior Jon Nieman just missed scoring in the 600 meters in placing 7th with a time of 1:29.88. Another junior, Steve Schuler, placed fourth in the 800 mt'ters with his fastest time ofthe year, 2 07.45. Relays were ju.st as as exciting and influcnual as the mdtndual eHnts as l inion plw.:eJ oth in the 4:\:.tOO and 4th in the 4XSOO. n1ese events \Vcrc extremely important down the stretch as Union, battling with RPI and Wesleyan, found themselves in third place after all the quarreling. The women finished 9th overall out of thirteen teams with 24 points, narrowlymissing 8th place by one point. Union scored 14 points off the track due to exceptional performances in the pole vault and the shot put by Jordanna Mallach (2nd place) and Carrie Cielowski (3rd place), respectively. Also performing well in the field were Megan O'Donnell in the high jump and Sarah Peach in the weight throw. The running events also proved to be good ground for the Union women. Freshman Katie Higley led ~,N~I\\:'l\·'lt:i.. U'-'~\­ CitTt'<t7 0..\t'f-lop:;t;mt Catln Union runners make the first turn during the 4X800 race. the way in both the 400 and the 800 meters by placing third and 5th respectively. Her times of 1:03.74 and 2:36.98 are both personal bests for the season and put her in a great position for the State Meet. Junior Marie Mauer ran the most distance out of any Union runner on Friday, running the 1500, 3000, and4X400. Mauer finished 14th in the 1500 meters with a personal .] best of 5:26.77 for the yeaL The 4X200 of Terra Lederhouse, Katie Round, Alex Lohse and Katie Higley placed 3rd to rack up six more points. Overall, it was a great night for the women. Plus \Coach\ Glenna was able to run through slight pain in the 3000 meters. Each athlete who crossed the fmish line. threw a mass, or jumped a distance fed the fire, a fixe that has just been rekindled and will bum for q.uite sometime. Bring it. CDC Updates ... 2/3: Sands Bt·ot.hers & Co. l\.1urty SumL<;. ':S3. 4.)Wncr/cnlt'cpn:ncur. speaks ahoul oppoJ\tUnitll:s \~·ith his lnvest1ncnt hanl;ing w11d :-.ccuntic~ finn. 7 Ptvl. CDC· Sophm:u<>re--s •. hmiors. Ss:nim:~; __ Co-op/SummerTecbnicnl J:nternship r~csum~I?c:tdltn~ h'l•!.hty. 214 fot': Sht-.wmut Destgn nn.U Constn.tctlnn - ( l!. r-:JlaJors Include C..:O\'Cr lcncr unu lratl~!:lpt. Cbc-.:k ........... ..,·w.:-.l•~tWfl\llt-bos.curn for further info.n:nution. l!PAADlirte Frogril!D~J U 2/8: Careers in. Real E..\i>latc. 7prn. CDC. 219: Civi.l Engr. Jobs and C'o-c::>p Info. T~thk-. 11:30 · fprn. CC Atrium. 2/9: Intcn,ic,..,. Rcfroshcr Wor!ksho.r-.. •lpm. C'DC. · 2/Ul: lJniv. of Denver t>ubUshing lnslllulc, 4ptn, ·CDC. 2/16: Advcrtis.ing/C'on'lmunic:;.tlinns lnfo. \L.1hle. 11 .:\\0- lpnt. CC Atriutn. · 2/16: Peace Corps, J0-2pm. CC Atriun'l~ 6pnl. CDC. 2/16: Connmunicuuons Panel~ 7prn. CDC. HOCKEY REMINDER UNION VS. DARTMOUTH TONIGHT THURSDAY FEBRUARY 3- 7:00PM COMEOUT ANDSUPPORTYOURSKATING DUTCHMEN

a re I ff a Sports (!.lon.co·rm£nsis • February 3, 2000 • Page 19 Track Team Competes at Wesleyan Invt. I feel as if this past weekend's experience at the Wesleyan Invitational epitomized the statements above. Hard work and dedication was put into the equation and nothing but ~ride and sportsma11ship came out of the equation. In a more lay terminology, Union placed third overall out of thirteen teams, a perfonnance the college has not seen in a long t·ime. by Frank Filiciotto Staff Writer It has been said countless times that each person or group of persons will enjoy fifteen minutes of fame and glory sometime throughout the comse of their natural existence. I am not going to say that the Union Track and Field Team experienced fifteen minutes under an intense and illuminating spotlight. But certainly, I can state that they spent seven hours learning about their nature under a light, which led them from the dim and into the radiant. TI1ere is a distinct correlation one can draw between a track meet and the nature oflife. TI1e motivations for both challenges arc similar, as are the goals. :\ person stands at the starting line. motionless. waiting for the gun to sound. When it sounds. it blasts aad life commences. From that point on the runner is challenged with internal and external quagmires as the path around the track is followed. The middlf. pati of the race is the most difficult and, as I have heard, so is the middle part of life itself. More often than not, the runner must dig deep to find more of the quickly depleting supply of energy and the endless supply of guts. As the runner makes the turn toward the final lap all tiredness transcends to power and the once weakened body radiates with glory when the line has been crossed. The mind is freed and the nmner is illuminated. The story of life. For the third meet in a row the field events carried Union a long way. Kris Darlington placed in all three ofthe jumps totaling foUJteen points fortheteam. Justin SieYert placed third in the shot put with a throw of ()Ver D.5 meters. Along \Vith Darlington, Chris Burns and Sh;~phen Erickson placed first and fifth in thehighjumpwithjumpsof 6'2\ ando'O\ respectively. Finally, :\dam Schwaber finished tied for seventh in the pole vault \\·ith a height of 11 '6\. There were no holes batTed in events off the track. Thedepth of the Union field team was proved glorious again scoring thirty of Union perpetual sixty-eight total points. AndbHk onto the big oval: Everybody knows that crazy, multi-event man known as Jerald Whittington Not only did he run the 4X400 and the open 400, Mr. Whittington placed second in the 55 hurdles with a time of 8.46 seconds. Tl!at puts him in the top ten in the state and guarantees him a spot at the State Meet in Fredonia. Sprint Sensation Astu Kaneko also racked up the fame at this weekend's meet by placing 5th in the 55-meter dash and 9th in the 200-meter dash witll tirnes of6.83 aNd 23.90 seconds, respectively. Sophomore ToNy Fykes had himself a breakthrough meet by fmishing II thin the 200-tneter dash and lOth in the 400 me-ters with times of 24.18 and 53.56 seconds, r~specttvely. Th~ distance rurmers performed equally as well by scoring twetlty-five totill pomts. An upset victory in the 800 meters by Freshman Matt Weber energized Union to score more points. Junior Jon Nieman just missed scoring in the 600 mt:ters in placing 7th \Vith a ttme of I :29.88. Another JUnior. Stn L\ Sc hukt, plal' eJ li.HJI1h in the 800 meters with his fastest time of the year, 2:07.4). Relays were JUSt as as excitlllg and influential as the indt\'ldual c\'ents as Lmon placed 6th in the 4X400 and ..J.th m the 4XSOO. Tlw se ~vents \\en: extremd y important Jown the stretch as Union. battling with RPI and Wesleyan. found themselves in third place af1er all the quarreling. Union runner!> make thcjinl ll/1'11 d11rmg the 4X800 race. The women finished 9th overall out of thirteen teams with 24 points, narrowly missing 8th place by one point. Union scored 14 points off the track due to exceptional performance-s in the pole vault and the shot put by Jordanna Mallach (2nd place) and Carrie Cielowski (3rd place), respectively. Also perforn1ing well in the field were Megan O'Donnell in the high jump and Sarah Peach in the weight throw. the way in both the 400 and the 800 meters by placing third and 5th respectively. Hertimes of 1:03.74 and 2:36.98 are both personal bests for the season and put her in a great position for the State .\feet. Junior Marie Mauer ran the most distance out of aiJy l 1 nion runner on Friday, mnning the 1500. 3000, and4X400. Mauer finished 14t1J in the 1500 meters with a pcrso11al best of S:26. 77 for the year. The 4X200of Terra Leder!wu!'>e, 1\.aiit.: Round, /\lex Lohse anJ Katie Htgley placed Jrd to rack up Sl\;. more pDints. UwralL It\\ as a grean night t(>r the women. Plus \Coadt'\ Cilentw was dhll' to run thruugh: slight painm the JOOO meters. The running events alsD proved to be good ground for the {Inion women. Freslm1an Katie Higley led Each athlete \\ho no~seJ tilL· finish line. thrl'l\. a mass, or JUmpcJ a distance fed the f1re. a frrc th<tt has just been rekmJkJ anJ \\ 1\L burn fnr lJllllt' .<>1 >Illt'!lmL' Bnng 1 t. ') 1 l 1 N .... ' • ~t I I\ r 1ri 1(,.\t;~, ..... ,. •:J ( ·,.~,-;~i.., CDC Updates ··~ T'_Ol)A'f~L~ ·---- - -·---·1 21.': S.:.uuJ-. Hrolf1~·r:-. .. '-'. ('u. 1\l,ut:-· S .. md.-. ·:-., '· <l'\VIlCllcllll<.'pl~'l1<.'1tl, \P'-\al-.~ ,,£>,,.,, \l'P<>I'tlllllllL'\ \tth l11o., L __ ~t_l'-'~_\-lll~~·nt ~~~~-J.._m!' ·\~'~.\\:ct~t-~~ lttfll . .'!'!\.1. < !H j MJ) ll.c.Hutw..:5 •. J ~ut.iur.l!,. 1:>1.·.1 • iv •·;;..: Co-up/Stnnnu.·r ·n.·-.·hnh.-ut lntern.-..hlp Rc.:-..un w t >c.: adl11 t.· I· • ~<I.•~. 2/~ for: Sha\'- tllll! I )t_• ... tgrt ano ( 'on-..tnlt.:tlon ( 'L fila)• I[' ltt.:!udc r;.\<l\'Ct\ lc!t<.:t and ll'.tllo,L·tpt. ( 'ilL'Ch \\\ \h·'\'\ rnut ho.; ,·.,rt' fo•r fur1hc·r tnfnttllalturL 2fH: <.-an.:..::r-; tn Real E-..rat..:. 7prll. ('f>< •. 2(\-): ('·tvtl l'.ngr-. Jub:-. and ( 'n.op lnf<•. ·l.,hl<·. II ~() fJ'trJ. < '( • Att nun. 2!9: Int<.:r ~ ''-''-\ Rc:IH:»tw r \Vnr 1-.\h\l'· ·lptn. ( \1 )t · 2/10: t >nn.. nt Dc.:ttvct· Ptlhlt-;hnlg ln-.trlutc. ·lprn. (\I H · 2/l6: i\dv,:l·t.-..111~/( 'otnn•cutu:<tll\''\ 1 nl\ l.thlc·. l I I(J Al.nurn. 2/16: P<.\aL·<.· ('ull'\· 10 ~prn, ( '(' AlltUTll. C•prn, < I)(' 2/l6: ( '<>rnnlutH<.:attons P'.inL\I. 7pn1, ('I)(·. j HOCKEY REMINDER UNION VS. DARTMOUTH TONIGHT THURSDAY FEBRUARY 3- 7:00PM COME OUT AND SUPPORT YOUR SKATING DUTCH MEr\

\Bringing Traditional Collegiate Athleticism into the 21st Century\ Hockey Basketball Swimming Union 2 Yale 2/ Union 3 Princeton 2 Union 81 Cazenovia 78/ Union 67 Skidmore 71 Hanillton 140Union92 Women's Sacred Heart 6 Union 0/ Union 3 Conn~ CoJllege 2 Union 60 Russell Sage 4{)/ Union 60 Skidmore 47 Hamiltonl37 Union 94 Skating Dutchmen Have Positive Road Weekend Tie with Yale, Win Against Princeton Moves Team Up in Standings byD.J.Book StaffWriter This was just what the Skating Dutchmen needed. The team recorded a tie and a win in the weekend road trip to improve its place in the standings. Union traveled to Yale University on Friday night, November 28, to take on the Bulldogs, and on Saturday night, the Dutchmen traveled to Princeton University to take on the Tigers. At the halfway point of the ECAC season, Union needed a big weekend to improve their status as a wilming team. With that in mind, the Dutchmen returned to campus early Sunday morning after an undefeated weekend against two tough teams. Union now stands at 5-6-1 in the conference, and the team can reach .500 with one more victory. On Friday night Union matched up against a tough Yale University team. The game was televised on NESN, and the frequent commercial breaks seemed to slow the game down at times. Yale scored the only goal of the first period when they capitalized on a Union miscue as two Dutchmen ran into each other at center ice, and as a result, a two-on-one ensued against sophomore goaltender Brandon Snee. Although the Bulldogs struck first blood. freshmen forward Nathan Gillies scored his first goal of the season and ofhis college hockey career at Union with about five minutes remaining in the second period. Gillies scored on a two-on-one opportunity that was set up nicely by sophomore defensernan Charles Simard. Gillies was a late placement Thursday night into Union's line-up, hut he nonetheless found the back of the net and tied the game, 1- t, for the Dutcllmen. Union applied offensive pressllre early and often in the beginning of the third period, and as a result, took a 2-1 lead. Junior forward Alex Todd scored his fifth goal of the seas on about six minutes into the final period. Simard recorded his sec()nd assist of the game with a dancly of a play as he penetrated YaJe.'s defensive zone and created a two-on-one down low. Simard's shot on net was directed wide of the net, but Todd scooped it up in the comer and spun around with a quick wrist shot that surprised sophomore goaltender Dan Lombard. Yale countera ttacl:ed shortly thereafter and scored,. power-play road. He said, \Hitting is a big part of our game. We obviously aren't the biggest team in the league, but we work hard and throw the body around to our advantage. It helps us control the game and keep our opponents on their heels.\ Union unofficially out-hit Yale, 62-30, in the game, and sophomore goaltender Brandon Snee turned in a strong performance between the pipes while recording 27 saves. He was named the game's third forward Jason Ralph scored his team-leading ninth goal of the season with assists to junior forwards Ryan Campbell and Clark Jones. Ralph skated full-speed into Tiger defensive territory and unloaded a slap-shot from just inside the blue line. Ralph's blast turned out to be the game-winner as he beat freshmen goaltender Nate Nomeland low to the stick side. The both teams tightened up defensively, and neither teain File Photo UniO'n lws begun thf? second half of the season on a good path for success. goal to knot the score a12·2, which ended the game's scori11g. Union fought for a hard-earned tie on the road against a t()ugh Yale team. Coach Kevin Snedd(ln agreed, \The boys played hml, and we almost pulled out a win. I was real proud of them. They played physical and tenacious out there against a fast team lilce Yale.\ Simard, who recorded two assists in the game and a numi:Jer of great body checks, was named player of the game. Later, Simard was aslced t() reflect on the team's game plan on the star. On Saturday night, Union battled the Princeton Tigers who experienced a tough loss, 6-2, the night before at home against RPI. Princeton scored first with a power-play goal exactly eleven minutes into the first period, but sophomore forward Doug Christiansen responded only 1:57 later as he knotted his fourth goal of the season with assists to Todd and sophomore forward Jeff Hutchins. The Skating Dutchmen then took the lead, at 2-1, about three minutes later as junior scored in the second period. With forty seconds left in the third period, Campbell scored his fifth goal of the season as he shot the puck the length of the ice and into the open net. The Tigers had pulled their goaltender in favor of an extra attacker, but Campbell's shot sealed the victory for Union, 3-1. The Dutchmen out-shot Yale 30-18 in the game. Campbell received first star of the game honors, and Ralph was chosen the third star. Coach Sneddon was pleased with the total weekend performance of the team. He stated, \It was a great defensive effort (Union allowed only three goals in two games), and we need that since we know that we're not going to score more than four or five goals every game We have a weJ!l-balanced team where everyone contributes. We have a short week coming up since we play oR Thursday, and I feel we' 11 be ready play well against a good Dartmouth team.\ Union has next weekend off, February 4and 5, but will face-off against Dartmouth University on Thursday night, February 3, at home at Achillies Rit1k. Game time is scheduled for 7:00. The Skating Dutchmen, who moved up two places in the standings into seventh place in the ECAC, need your support as they battle for a playoff spot. Come out and support the team! ·.I

Page 20 • February 3, 2000 • Qt.onc~.Mtnsis Sports Thoroughbreds Out-run Dutchmen, 71-67 by David C. Brooks Editor-in-Chief Last Friday, the Shooting Dlltch- men traveled to Cazenovia to take on the Wildcats. After an impr:es- sive 15~point win over Hartwick. The Dutchmen came out red hot, owning a 10 point lead at halftime, 39-29. However, C'azeno,ia came back ready to play in the second half. As the Dutchmen coo led off, the Wildcats caught fire. Cazenovia outscored Union, 42-32, in the second half, sending the game into overtime. The Dutchmen regained their form and were able to hang on to the win, defeating the Wildcats in an exciting 8 J-78 overtime win. The Dutchmen were led by sophomore C' .J. Rodgers who had a career high 35 points and also led Uni<m with 11 rebounds. Junior Ryan Murray continued his strong play as he added 17 points and 10 boaFds. Senior captain Zena Woldeyesus had 1 0 points on the evening as well as dishing out six assists. On Tuesday evening, file Shoot- ing Dutchmen traveled to Saratoga to face the sixth ranked team in the East, Skidmore College. Union wel- comed back senior captain Dave Copeland after his eight.day trip to Turkey in which he competed in an engineering competition. The Dutchmen battled against the Thoroughbreds all night long. At the half, the Dutchmen led by one, 37-36. However, Union could not keep the tempo in their favor as Skidmore proved too powerful. The Thoroughbreds walked away with a four point win, 71-67. Aaron Galletta led the team in scoring with 16, while Rodgers chipped in 12 points. Murray added 11 points while W oldeyesus had eight points and five assists. Skidmore snapped Union'stwo game winning streak and dropped their record to 11-7 and 2-5 in the UC' AA. The Dutchmen have been very streaky since coming back fFotn winter break. The once po- tent offense has since cooled off, while the defense continues to play solid basketball. The next three weeks will prove to be a crucial part of the season. Of the six remaining games, five are UCAA contests. The Shooting Dutchmen currently find themselves in sixth place in the UC AA. St. Lawrence, who is the only team below Union in the standings. has yet to win a league game. Union has the weapons to be a deadly team, and with everything gcing the Dutchmen's way, they are tough to beat. The key for the Dutchmen is to play consistent basketball and keep the mistakes to a minimum. Union will travel to the North Country this weekend to face St. Lawrence and Clarkson in a im- portant UCAA match-ups. With the UCAA tournament only three weeks away, every UCAA contest will be crucial forpost season play. The next home game will be next Saturday at Memorial Field House. AROUND THE RIM: Sophomore C.J. . odgers is sixth in the. CAA in scoring with 19 .. · oints a game and third ·n rebounding with just nder nine boards a ame ... Senior captain ena Woldeyesus is fifth ·n the league in assists, veraging five a gme ... Freshman Tony etz is second in the · CAA in blocked shots, veraging 1.8 blocked . hots per game ... After .· tarting ·the season 6-0, he Shooting Dutchmen . ave gone $-6. eremy Mcs Sophomore Aaron Galletta tries for a rebound under the bClsket against Hartwick. Skating DutchwQmen Split Weekend Games by Rachel Bukowski Sports Editor The Union College Skating Dutchwomen, coming off <>fan in- credible win two weeks ago against Bates College, were looking to im- prove their record even more in their two games. On Sa.uuday af- ternoon, these women boarded the bus to commence a two-game road trip to Sacred Heart College and Connecticut College. thus finish- ing off their January sche·dule. The women were not sure what to expect when they traveled to Sacred Heart, as this team, cur- rently ranked nationally, had de- feated the Dutch women, I 0~0, in last year's meeting. At the end of the first period, however, the Dutchme11 were re- maining strong and were only be- hind by a score of 1-0. They had managed to hold off the powerful Sacred Heart offense, ancltheonly goal came with just three- minutes left in the period from Sacred Heart Senior Lauren Wiggins .. Union entered the second period hopeful that a come-from-behind victory over this highly competi- tive team was imminent. Although the offense failed to produce de- spite two power play opp{)rtuni- ties, the Dutch defense remained strong and held Sacred Heart to only two more goals in this excit- ing match up. Entering the third period, the Dutchwomen knew that, rlespite how hard they had played s.o far, they needed to pick up tlieir game and take more shots on goal to try and close the score up a bit. The Dutch women managed four solid shots on net; however, none of these could penetrate the wall Sa- cred Heart goalie Anna Alveri had put up in net. Sacred Heart, how- ever, put three more goals behin9. Union goalie Michelle Tardiff to make the fmal score 6-0. Tardiff ended the game with 39 saves. Despite the loss, the Dutch women are optimistic about the future oftheir team. \Last year, we lost to Sacred Heart 10-0,\ stated Junior Cally Woodard. 'The score from this year's game is evident of our vast improvement as a team, a result of all the countless hours of hard work we have been putting in to this sport.\ On Sunday night, January 31, the Skating Dutchwomen, hoping to play as effectively as they had the night before, met Connecticut College. Union commenced the scoring with two minutes left to go in the first period on a goal by Cassie Lawton, assisted by Fresh- man Ailsa Cumming. The Dutchwomen, however, were not done, and less than a minute later Rebecca Terry made the score 2-0 in favor of Union off of assists from Beth Gabriel and Kristen Owad. At the start of the second pe- riod, Union was holding on to a small two-point lead, which would be diminished by one when Con- necticut snuck one in behind Tardifftomakethe score 2-1. The Dutchwomeu then saw their lead disappear completely. Caryn Nelson of Connecticut College scored a power play goal just three minutes into the third period to tie the score at two arid put incredible amounts of pressure on the Union team. Elizabeth l}aigle/CP Senior Michelle Stein looks for a pass down ice. The Dutchwomen then needed to overcome the penalty that had cost them the lead. Once they had accomplished this, they needed to create scoring opportunities .so as to prevent the game from nmn~ng into sudden-deaihovertirne. These opportunities came when Katti Morley of Connecticut was handed two two-minute penalties which gave the Dutchwomen the five-on-four advantage in the cru~ cia! final minutes of the third pe- riod. Union took control ofthe gan1e, and with just five minutes remain- ing, Cumming scored an incredible power play goal to put Union up by one. This goal was assisted by Terry and Senior Captain Melissa Jolmson. Now, Unionjustneeded to hold on to their precarious lead for five more minutes and they would have the win. They had almost tnade it to the end, when Johnson was chaTged with a two-minute minor for trip- ping with. 49 seconds left in the game. Tensions were high as the Skat- ing Dutchwomen spent the final few seconds of the game clinging onto a one point lead. Connecti- cut had pulled their goalie, and this gave them a fout-on-six player ad- vantage. Union, however, man- aged to hold off the Connecticut offense as the final seconds ticked down, and the game ended with a Union victory, 3-2,. With this vict,pry, the Dutchwomen have moved into 14th place out of 18 teams in the ECAC league wit\I a league record of3-8. Their performances this year mark a significant improvement over their games last year, and the play- ers are convinced that with this continued improved quality of play, the Skating Dutchwomen have a legitimate chance at making the playoffs next year. Union will play Trinity and Wesleyan Colleges this weekend atAchilles Rink, Saturday and SunM day, respectively. Both games will start at 7:00. Come out a.II:d sup~ port these athletes as they take on top teams from around the coun- try.

Sports CD:.tnttn:driensis • February 3, 2000 • Page 21 The First Super Bowl of the New Millennium by Bri~n Terlinsky Sports Editor Was Super Bowl XXXIV a super game? How did you feel the teams played? What did you think about the cofnmercials? Or the halftime show? Despite all these questions, the Super Bowl is the most watch~d sporting event of the year and overall just a great time to get together with your friends, enjoy a good party of food and drjill(s. NeveW1eless many people tend to watch the game to reminesce about the entire NFL season and make arguments to persuade their friends that theiF favorite team should have been playing in the biggest game ofthe year. / Well, since the whole spectacle of the Super Bowl revolves around much more then just the game and the teams, I still believe that I should begin the analysis of last Sunday's event with a run down ofhow it all came about. Europe during tb.e last few years, got th.e starti.n,gjob during the pre- season, afterthe Rams Trent Green broke b.is adde. Green was sup- p()sed to. be the Rams new man, however the best was yet to come from Kurt Warner, who got the break o:f his life. Wamer teok the . . . . . . - starting job and te(i the NFL . se:ason, l11'1:''~r.:J:u~ the 4000-yard mark,. which is unbelievable ne one have thtmght two teams woald be playing forthe title back in Au- gust. This year, ABC had the rights to game, as Chris Berman and 4-9ers quarterback Steve .L..c_~~~ to cheer about, especially during the fust quarter. The first half of the game was not too exciting, as the Rams lead 9•0, from three fietdg()als. There were not that many great runs., from Eddie· George or Marshall Faulk or catches from ei- other, the \dot COM\ adds were getting old very quickly. There were no Pepsi or Coke commer• cials to remember and no Bud Bowl reports every quarter. However, there were a few no- table adds, which did bring about some laughter from the crowds. One of the fun- niest commer- cials of the night was the. Moun- tain Dew ad, with cheetah be- some person try- ing to get his can back and stick- his arm the the add with three indi- .. viduals playing ·homemade in- struments and ing, \What a waste of two mil- lion dollars,\ was photo quite creative Y ~mng performed What a year for Super Bowl MVP Kurt Wamer! too. one of the most exciting endings in NFL history. Since I believe most people on this campus did watch the game, there is no need to recap the second half scoring. But the last few minutes of the game, defmitely deserves some noteworthy remarks. As the Titans were down 23-16, with less then a minute to go, many people were already giving up on them since they only had one time out and were only on their 30 yard line. However, Steve McNair made the plays, drove the Titans 60 yards and got his team to the Rams ten yard line with five second re- maining in the game. The Titans took their last time out, as the next play was going lO be the last play of regulation ttme and scoring the touchdown w3s key to keep their hopes alive for a championship ring. For the past three weeks many people, including myself, have been predicting the Titans to go all the way to the Super Bowl and win the shiny Lombardi trophy. Titans Coac;h Jeff Fisher was mak- ing all the dght plays, had the con- fidence in his team while also try- ing to reach the big game for his state of Tennessee and its fans. the pregame ----------~-------------------------------------- The halftime As the McNair took the .snap, he scrambled for a fe\\ !>econds, the clock had hit 0:00, and out of desperation he had an open re- ceiver, Kevin Dyson. Dyson caught and turned for the goal! ine, when Ram's hero Mil<e Jones tack- led Dyson inches before the goal line. The Titans just barely lost the game, but it was surely a heart- throbbing finish, which made people get out of their seats and screaming at the TV. A great finish to a game that started a little shaky. The Titans first beat Buffalo in a cop.troversial last s<;:cond play, then defeated Indianapolis as a major underdog, and then sur- prised Jacksonville in Florida. They made their way to chilly Atlanta in the best way imaginable. In contrast, the Rams were an- other story. Kurt Warner, who was playing arena football and NFL sb.ow, while AI Michaels and B()omer Esiason announced the game. Personally, I enjoy watching th;e Fox team.ofPat Summerall and John Madden duo, along with the Fox. NFL Sunday guys, but I be.., lieve Micheals and Esiason did a good job during the game. At the start of the game, both teams were pumped-up and ready for battle, however, to be quite honest, there wasn't much action _=::::==:::=:::=::=:::::~:=::::::==::~ losing streak fmally came to an end by Rachel Bukowski and in their gatne against Russell Sage Brian Terlinsky College. The Dutch women again Sports Editors led atthe halfby a score o£26-25. Last week, the Shooting TI1is time, however, they did not Dutch women lost a tough game letthe lead slip from their fmgertips to Hartwick, 57-54, which extended in the second half. Instead, Union their losing streak to four games. outscored the Gators 34-24 in the Although Union was leading at second half in ()rder to clinch the · halftime, 32-29, they could not win,60-49. bring the effort from the first half Once again, Smith led the team into the second, and they fell just scoring with 19 points, . short of the victory. What hurt respectively, while Beth Perry Union the most was that they were added another 14 points to the final only able to make two often free score. Th.e Dutch women saw throws in the second half while another notable performance from Hartwick was able to make an S.ophomoreHeatherBeru1ett, who impressive nine of 13. recorded 13 rebounds on the night. Despite the missed free throws, On Tuesday night, the however, Union managed to Dutchwomen hosted Skidmore in outscore Hartwick, 21-19, from the the Memorial FieldHouse, looking field and came out of the game with f<Jr their second win in a row. a higher shooting percentage Union, led by Erin MacNamara, overall. In the fmalminutes ofthe who had 13 points, defeated game, Union was unable to make Skidmore by a score of 60-47. key baskets; thus cementing their Bertnett contributed ten points to ultimate loss. the final Union tally, while Leah Katie Smith was the high scorer Oliveri had 12 points and eight for the Dutchwomen with 17 boards. points, which Kathleen Furlong On Friday and Sat..trday, Union contributed 13 points to the team will trave 1 to Clarkson and St. effort. Sara D' Arcangelo pulled Lawrence and then will return home down 11 boards for Union. f<>t a rematch against Skidmore. On Friday, Union's four-game Come out and support the team! therteams' receivers. However; the Rams were able to-penetrate the Ti- tan defense and ac<J.uii:ed nine points from field-goals no farther away than the Titan 30-yard line. In addition tojust the game, the commercials, which are sometimes the only reason why people watch this game, did n()t really add any more excitement either. With Internet companies, one after the show was quite interesting or was it? Many musi- cians, including Phil Collins and Christina Aguilera, strutted their stuff to bring the NFL into the year 2000. Lots of people made the show into what is was supposedly to be. However I think we have seen better in recent years. The second half of the game was a completely different story and many saySuper Bowl XXXIV was Two days after the game, Rams Head Coach Dick Vermeil decided it was time to call it quits after de- cades ofbeing a NFL coach. A job well done, and a great way to end a coaching career. However, I !J.e- lieve the Titans will be back next season looking forward for a re- match against anyone down at the Orange BowL Question . of the week: Do you think MLB made the correct decision in suspending Braves' pitcher John Rocker? Send your thoughts to: concordy@vu.union.edu -.

•, Page 22 • February 3, 2000 OO:n:n:co:r.bi.ensi9 Mens Swimming Gains Momentum at HQme by l'hatcher' voodley Staf!Wr·ter The men's swimming and diving team had a wonderful meet last Saturday against Hamil.ton College. Maybe it was the rivalry that has developed over the past decade that gave the team the fuel to compete well last Saturday. Or maybe it was the constant pressure that the team has been placing on itself to perform since the humiliating Hartwick/ Springfield meet. Some might even say that the success had to do with something in the air. In any case, the Men's Swimming and Diving team had a gTeat meet. Despite losing to Hamilton to the score of 140-93 Union had some great swims. There were season and hfetime best times across the board. This week Union's strongest event was the one hundred free-style. Senior Clark Smyth won this event with the time of 50.04. He was closely followed by freslunan Ridgley Harrison who touched the wall just five-hundredths of a second later. Nathaniel Martin also had a very good meet. This meet once again highlighted the amount of potential this year's freslunenclass has and how important they are to the success.ofUnion's program. The class really came through during Senior Rob Kirkman pulls ahead o_fthe competition i11 the 1 00'-yard breaststroke race. this meet. Jon V ander:vort dropped several seconds off of his 400 individual medley. Steve Eberlien alse swam well as he went a season best time in the 2()0 free-style. Eber·lien also did very well in his 100 yard backstroke. These races can only be improved upon over the next few weeks as the team begins to taper of their yardage in order to get ready for the state meet at the end of February. It is assuring to know that the team can still look at the season a positive light even though there have been some really tough situations during the year. This past meet was by far Union's best in terms of team unity. It was also their fastest meet. Even though Hamilton was able to hand tl1em a loss, the score was mm.h closer than one would have expected. By no means was the team embarrassed, evcm though there was the potential to be. \It's really nice to see the team coming together after so much turmoil,\ said captain Clark Smyth after the Hamilton meet. The team has two meets left. St. Lawrence is coming to Un:ion next Saturday. The State meet is in three weeks. Please come support the team on Satur.(iay and wish them good luck in their meet. Hamilton's Tides Too Rough For Union by Lauren Wander Colllributing Wrifl!r On Saturday, the women'sswim team lost to Hamilton College. But that's OK. The swimmers knew that they had little chance of beating the State Champions of their division. Instead, the team strived to swim for best times, to feel like they won by bettering their tunes, and not to worry about the visiting team. Because Hamilton is loaded with last swimmers, every Dutchwoman had an opponent to try to beat in eachevent. '\By taking the pressure of actually winning the meet away from us,\ said captain senior Kerry Librandi, \it was easier to go out there in the water and experiment with different strategies of swimming our races. Some of the new attacks we used really enabled us to drop times.\ Though the only Union winner of an event was senior Erin Wittes in the four hundred yard individual medley, almost every other woman swam exceptionally well. ''We keep getting better and better as the season goes on,\ praised junior Marni Loiacono. ''We're almost ready to shine at States.\ Starting out the very first race of the meet with her best split in the fifty yards backstroke for the 200 medley relay, junior Sara Rankmvitz later went her best time for the season of 1:04.2 in the one I 00 yards backstroke. Right after Rankowitz' s relay came in second, Librandi, sophomore Cori Verrill, and freslunan Anna Sluzar swam the 165() for the second time this Rebecca Walsh/CP F1·eshman Lissie Grace finished her 1 00-yard breaststroke race. season. Amazingly, both Librandi and Verrill wereonlyofftheirbest times by a few secmtds, and Sluzar bettered her time from UCAA 's in December to break twenty minutes for the first time. Continuing the tre11d; freshman La11ren Wander swam a close race in the 200 yard freestyle that, especially after the sixty-six laps of the previous event, was very exciting to watch. Wander placed ~econd with a personal best time of 2:03.26. Following up in the 400 IM, both the winner, Wittes and captain seniotClewis Kinnett went in best in season times. Wittes went 4:48.34, five seconds fastetthanher previous season best from UCAA's,andKi.nnettwas only two seconds behind with a 4:50.4, placing second for Union in the race. \I finally swam a real time!\ exclaimed Kinnett. \No more middle school times forme!\ Finishing up the meet on a good note, freshrrian Lissie Grace also went her best in-season tinte in the 100 yard breaststroke, which was the second to last event ofthe day. Though placing second, she was the fastest Union breaststroker of the afternoon. Tile Dutchwomen have entered their events for States and are just about ready to go. The team's times and attitudes are perfect for this time of the season. With many .of the girls already well on their way into taper, the team is resting up for the championship. Just one more meet this Saturday at home against St. Lawrence at 2:00PM, and the Union women will be all set for States, which will be held at RPI on February 16-18. Sports

. Scores and Standings Through Tuesday 1\!tll'.s.Ho~ke~ Women's Hockey <1,7-14-1/5•6-l ECAC) (3-13/3-8 ECAC) ~·~· aR4:P~I=~~th .· i:::~:~ ;0.,\r 1._\s) 1:4 W on S·- 2 , · · :-...:::. · rs arB.PI Lo·st 5..;0 LJ. \ · · 2'8 . ~i ~ale Ti~d.2.;2 ·. · ·. .· / / · .. . 29 · at Prin.ceto.n · -.W()1i .i.~·:l ·-C:'fl;. • ... ·. FJe•b. -4 · · D:A.<R·'FM6lUTR ~· VERMONT .·. · J~ P.::t~urNCE'f:·O:l't. .. . 'L~.:.:: YALE ·· · ' . I , • . ·18 . . · at Co;hteU 1·;9 •. arC.ol~ate iS S T .. LA.WRENCE 2:6 CLA:Rl{SO<N: . 'Mi'a,r. .3 4 ' •·'.; atHarvatd -atBrewn . ,• .. ·. - CANCELED .Ja•n. 7 HAMILTON Lost 5-l 8 RIT Lost 10-0 14 at Bowdo-in Lo$t 10-2 15 at Colby Lost 8-0 22 BATES Won 4-2 23 SOUTHERN MAINE Lost 8-1 29 at Sacred Heart Lost 6-0 30 at Conn. College Won 3-2 Feb . 5 TRINITY 6 ' WESLEYAN 12 at Vermont '~· 1 o· .... ···m· · ... · .. ·n·n· 's··· · .. . . Y'J.; ... ~ ', .. ~·: ·. •. > ·. Basketball ..... . --- - . (10·813-4 UCAA) Men's Basketball (11-7 /2-5 UCAA) M . ' d' ens an . Women's Track Jan. Jan. 4 s. \IBJIMJNf 7 umn~ 8 t\ilim~ 9 Uliln~ H HAw.IL't(N · Woo 75-38 (VemDtt) \.\bn£0.49(M St rvtuYs) 7 8 11 Sl.JNY~re SCRANIDN HAMILTON ·14 :SI:IA~ 15~ 18 at:RPI 22~¥ 2S HAlUWICX 28 atlbseJJ.Sa~ Feb. 1 atSl®nre 4 atClad<sm 5 atSt.~ V\bn7>58 \\ttt67~1 Iost~5£> Wst51-38 I1lst63-52 lf>st57;.54 \\bn00-49. Won({J47 14 ST. IAWRE.KCE 15 CLAR!&SON 18 atRPI 22 at :Mddlebtcy 25 HARTWICK 28 atCazerom Feb. 1 atSlOOrrooo 4 at Chuksort 5 at St I.aw-trce .M··· ' ..... ·.· .··.·.en sand Women's Jan. Swimming 8 at Williams 15 at Hartwick 19 atRPI 22 at Middlebury 29 Hamilton Feba 5 ST. LAWRENCE 17-19 Women's State Meet at RPI 24-26 Men's State Meet at Hamilton M. Lost 154 .. 65/ W. Lost 13&-98 M. Lost 122-117/ W. Won 122-121 M. Lost 126-115/W. W<>n 14::5-96 M Lost 191-89/ W. Lost 19()•89 M. Lost 140-92/W. Lost 137-'14 Won83-66 WonCJJ..-72. Lost70-61 Lost 70-61 WonfRT67 Lost63-58 Lost67-63 lost 69-63 Won81-66 Won81-78(01) lost 71-fJ7 Jan. 16 at Hamilton M Lost 96-77 W. Lost 92-49 22 atRPI 28 at Wesleyan lNV'T Feb. 13 UCAA at Hamilton 19 at Hamilton 25-26 State Meet

. --. ,,, -· .•a.-.L•.,4i~LI.••;.I'r.Lll' nd's Meet · .oft, Page 22 ·.·.··.·~lSQ ·rfli~···.· We~k· At•·.lJriUJ:n~. ' '' ' ' •- I '~ \ I .'' '\' \- '; ',' ' • : ., >- • ' -,, ' • '- . Febuary 3, 2000 · .·... Skating · - . llutcbmeu· Have ·· ·· · Men's Basketball 11 StrongW~telld · ·ureaksWIDWngStreak ~. · .·. ·. Pag¢ 18 .. · ..•... ·.· . ·.... . Page 21 ' ' ' I ·, ,_· .. ··,. -, '

• mmers ... . . . :.;·:.::~ ·._- ~- ., .... , ·. k -·· '\~~ e~ Your,. . . . . ' ·. a·- --- ----·-- ,:,.-_---·---)<·:_, ···-- _- ' -· ' <,,,:, • .;._ --k·--_-._- G' ar ..... · .... o • . '\\' ll~~_ap .of This __ ,.t :\ : •<· .. -,~';}-·.-··:;·,',; ,·, .• ,: • ' '·. · •••• Weekend's Meet on Page 22 Also This Week At Union .. Febuary 3, 2000 Skating ,._ Dutchmen Have Men's Basketball Strong Weekend Breaks Winning Streak Page 18 Page 20 0 :\;/ ~

.. ~'A.thousand words will not leave so deep an· impression as one deed.'' News: Healthy Changes for the Twenty-first Century Page4 Opinions: Students React to Senior Class Gift Page 8-10 World News: Republican Field Narrows Page 14 Crew Pulls in Gold • _._ --~ ..• ,, • :• •• '-. r • • . JFeilitures_2.i2· ~- y : -~PJ?tf~: ~'48: . ,o· ,···u··:r····E··::~·m'·;·:a:···~··t·· :· ' ···- '' .. : . _,_ '.- . . . '' :.- ·. ' - 1·, .• -_ '/\-· .• • __ ~·-· --.-· ;,'~---,·-'.- .. , _._--,?~~~---:.-- ... -~~~~--~._~--~~~~ -Henrik Ibsen Winter Carnival Weekend by Kristell Zadourian Staff Writer Midnight blue and silver were the co lots of this year's winter for- mal. Hosted by the Program As- sistants of the Social Committee, the 2000 Winter Formal was a success. The winter f().rmal was formed three. years ago by se- niors Liz Schmitt and Mike Winrt .. Each year, the formal has become increilsingly more popular. Members of the Pro- gram Assistants this ye helped to ensure success. They were Juniors Erin Aloan, Steve. Flaherty, Hillary Olk,. and Brae lin Pantel~ Seniors Liz Kaier and Liz Scllmidt. Also, Student Forum Pre., ........... d. lection offinger foods and bever~ ages available to munch on and quench the thirst as a break from the intense dancing. The spread was set upon a table centered with the first and second place winners of the ice sculpture contest. The winners were the Jester and the and mingle before and during the formal. The food assortment was a big hit, as many students took advan- tage of the different foods to re- gain their energy before heading back onto the floor for another round of dancing. \We were re!llly pleased with the D.J. and we are hoping to have him back.\ Schmitt also noted that the D.J. was extremely impressed with the crowd here. He said that the crowd was really easy to play for and he enjoyed the night. The music selection was very diverse and kept ev- \'\'\'\''\ dancing from start to fmish. The D.J. played a of fast and slow tunes,. popular and dance. In particular, the D.J. began a string of swing tunes, and it was clear that the swing lessons. offered by the Ball- room Dancing Club payed ff. Senior Mike W inn and Barr were tearing up floor with their swing moves, twisting and turning to the beat. time and effort t() assist in the Junior Melissa Zachar planningJ!l~ s~c_cess of Sat: s~mmed up the selection urday night's affair. saying, \'The music was Upperclass Dining Hall div.eJ;se, there were .. decorated to give the ambi~. . .. .. . . . . songs for everyone's lik- ence ofa winter wonderland. · Mike Wirin and Suza'rme Hoyer share the fun atthe Winter. Formal. . ing., The midnight blae and silver-----------~------_......-.-.....;.. ......... :.__ _ _.;;___,.,.~-~ Similarly, Junior Nora balloons were sprea-d sporadically Rocketshlp. D .J. Paul Malo, a.fri:st for Union, Tinti added that the formal was all over the room, accompanied by Fingerfoods included an assort- was a big success. The crowd was \great music, great fun, and lots of twinkling lights.v;lrichgave off just ment of cheeses, bread, veg- extremely responsive. According people. I had a blast.\ enough light to add to the roman- etables, dip and fruit. Chet's was to Liz Schmitt, the D.J. was recom- Overall Schmitt remarked, \The tic atmosphere. also opened as another option for mended by a D.J. who Union had Dining Servic~s prepared a se- students to purchase a beverage previously used. Schmitt said, U2K Preliminary Report by Racb.el Bukowski Sport~ Editor For the past two years, the U2K committee has been meeting regu- larly in order to discuss possible changes in the Greek system and social life of the College. These potential changes are intended to make the Greek system less of a dominant force Qn the Union Col- lege campus and give students a greater variety of social options. This past week., the committee released a preliminary report to the members of Student Forum, the Student Affairs C()uncil, executive members of Pa.nllellenic Council and lilterfratemity Council and the Faculty Executive Board. These groups were to read the report and give their own input back to the committee a.boat the proposals contained in the report. After ·these groups have submit- ted their proposals for any revi- sions, a revised report will be re- leased to the ge11eral public, who will, in turn, be a:ble to submit their own suggestions and objections to the report. Although specifics of the report could not be released to Concordiensis, Dean Alford~ a memberofU2K, touched upon the general purpose of the report and what the proposals in the report could mean to the Greek system. Alford stated, \The report merely suggests possible implementati()ns in order to improve the Greek sys- tem. It highlights .a number of con- troversial issues such as rush, pledging, selectivity and hous- ing.\ These issues and proposals brought ap, however, are not fmal- ized in any way. Every issue dis- cussed in this report is a sugges- tion made by the U2K subcommit- tees. Tltese suggestions cannot be finalized until they are dis- cussed by the steering committee and then approved by President Roger Hall. Alford elaborated, \We [the U2K committee] are welcoming inte11i- gent feedback on this report. Stu- dents and faculty alike are ada- mantly encouraged to subl11it tlteir thoughts to the U2K committee on the questions brought up and the issues discussed. Although all the proposals have been suggested by the subcommittees ofU2K; ab- solutely nothing is fmal and any- thing in that report can be changed if there are valid arguments pre- sented against the suggestions. Controversial issues, especially, are cwrently wide open for discus- sion.\ If approved, some of the issues in this report could have a major impact on the Union College cam- pus as a whole. For a long time, Greek organizations have been the dominant social groups at Union College. Many feel that it is time to change this, thougll there are many who are content with the current social life and want it to remain unchanged. The committee does not want the student body at Union to feel as if they have no voice in the pressing and controversial issues: what the U2K subcommittees have recommended is not necessarily the final word. Students and fac- ulty are encouraged to read the re- port thoroughly when it comes out next week and, if they feel strongly about any issues, voice their opin- ions. Contin11etl on page tf. WebCam Arrival by J~on Putorti Webmaster As of Mornday, February 7, Union College has its very own web camera live a11d transmitting im- ages of the college around the world througll the college's Web site. The camera, which is set up look- ing out of a th.ird floor window in the Olin building, is positioned to offer web surfers a picturesque view of the Nott Memorial, Social Sciences builcling and the Reamer Campus Center. \We wanted a busy spot,\ ac- cording to Director of Academic Computing Diane Keller. The \Web Cam\ refreshes the image it displays online every five seconds. According to Director ofPublic Relations Cha.rlie Casey, having a live camera feed of the Union C'am- cus was an idea first envisioned • by recently retired Union Webmaster, Saul Morse. COittiluted on page 3 ' .

''A thousand words will not leave so deep an impression as one deed. \ This Week News: Healthy Changes for the Twenty-first Century Page4 Opinions: Students React to Senior Class Gift Page 8-10 r-- - -------- ------ ·-- -----l , World News: Republican Field Narrows Page 14 Sports: Crew Pulls in Gold Page 19 Inside Campus News- 3 Opinions - 8 Technology-11 Features - 12 World News -14 A&E -16 Sports -18 Our E-mail concordy@ vu.union.edu ~--------------~----~ -Henrik Ibsen z= 57 m Winter Carnival Weekend by Kristen Zadourian Staff Writer lection of finger foods and bever- and mingle before and during the \'We were really pleast!d with the ages available to munch on and formal. D.J. and we are hopin2 to hav·e him quench the thirst as a break from The food assortment was a big back.\ the intense danciag. The spread hit, as many students took advan- Schmitt also noted that the D.J. Midnight blue ancl silver were was set up on a table centered with tage of the different foods to re- was extremely impres~cd with tht: the colors of this year\s winter for- the first and semnd place winners gain their energy before heading crowd here. He said t:hat the nowJ mal. Hosted by the Program As- of the ice sculpture contest. The back onto the flom for aaother was realiy easy to play for and hL· sistants of the Social Committee, winners were the Jester and the round of dancing. enjoyed the night. the 2000 Winter Forma 1 was a Tlle mu<;ic c;e kction wa~ success. very diverse and kept ev- The winter formal was eryone dancing, from start formed three years ago by se- to finish. The D.J. played a niors Liz Schmitt and Mike variety of fast and slow Winn. Each year, the formal tunes, popular and dance. has become increasingly more In particular, th::- D.J. began popular. Members ofthe Pro- a string of swing tunes, and gram Assistants this year it wa.s clear that the swing helped to ensure success. lessons offered by the Ball- They were Juniors ErinAloan, room Dancing Club payed Steve Flaherty, Hillary Olk, off. Senior Mike Winn and and Brad in Panll'L Seniors Liz Kd~.·n Rw \\ L'IL' k.HII1~~ tlj' K..tlL'l • .utd L11 Sdunidt. Abo, tit\.' :Io<ll 1\ till thL·tr ..,,, tit;,: StuJcnt Forum Prt:s!Ul'nt lll~l\L''· I\\I.,Illl1,:.llllltul!tlll,C: Mike Winn volunteered his to the bt:Jt. timeandefforttoassistinthe Junior \1cli~)a Z<1char planning and success of Sat- summed up tk selection urday night's affair. by saying, \The music was Upperclass Diningi:Iall was very diverse. there were decorated to give the ambi- S().ngs for everyone's Iik- ence of a winter wonoderland. Mike Winn and Suzanne Hoyer share the fun at the Winter Formal. ing.,. Them~n~hlb~mdillv~-------------------------------- Si~l~~Ju~MNorn balloons were spread sporadically Rocketship. D.J. Paul Malo, a first for Union, Tinti added that the formal was all over the room, accompanied by Finger foods included an assort- was a big success. The crowd was \great music, great fun, and lots of twinkling lights which gave offjust ment of cheeses, bread, veg- extremely responsive. According people. I had a blast.\ enough light to add to the roman- etables, dip and fruit. Chet' s was to Liz Schmitt, the D.J. was recom- Overall Sclunitt rema.rked, \The tic atmosphere. also opened as another option for mended by a D.J. who Union had Dining Services prepared a se- students to purchase a beverage previously used. Schmitt said, U2K Preliminary Report by Rachel Btrkowski Sports Editor For the past two years, the U2K committee has been meeting regu- larly in order to discuss possible changes in the Greek system and social life of the College. These potential changes are intended to make the Greek system less of a dominant force on the Union Col- lege campus and give students a greater variety of social options. This past week, the committee released a preliminary report to the members of Student Forum, the Student Affairs Coundl, executive members of Panhellenic Council and Interfraternity Council and the Faculty Executive B.oard. These groups were to read the report and give their own input back to the committee about the proposals contained in the report. After these groups have submit- ted their proposals for any revi- sions, a revised rep0ort will be re- leased to the general public, who will, in turn, be able to submit their own suggestions and objections to the report. Although specifics of the report could not be released to Coacordiensis, Dean Alford, a member ofU2K. touched upon the general purpose of the report and what the proposals in the report could mean to the Greek system. Alford stated, \The report merely st~ggests possible implementations in order to improve the Greek sys- tem. It highlights a number of con- troversial issues such as rush, pledging, selectivity and hous- ing.\ These issues and proposals brought up, however, are not fmal- ized in any way. Every issue dis- cussed in this report is a sugges- tion made by the U2K subcommit- tees. These suggestions cannot be finalized ut1til they are dis- cussed by the steering committee and then appro\Ved by President R-oger Hull. Alfordelaboraied, \We [the U2K committee] are welcoming intelli- gent feedback on this report. Stu- dents and faculty alike are ada- mantly encouraged to submit their thoughts to the U2K corrunittee on tile questions brought up and the i!>sues discussed. Although all the proposals have been suggested by the subcommittees ofU2K, ab- solutely nothing is final and any- thing in that report can be changed if there are valid arguments pre- sented against the suggestions. Controversial issues, especially, are currently wide open for discus- sion.\ If approved, some of the issues in this report could have a major impact on the Union College cam- pus as a whole. For a long time, Greek organizations have been the dominant social groups at Union College. Many feel that it is time to change this, though there are many who are content with the current social life and want it to remain unchanged. The committee does not want the student body at Union to feel as if they have no voice in the pressing and controversial issues: what the U2K subc()mmittees have reconunended is not necessarily the final word. Students and fac- ulty are encouraged to wad there- port thoroughly when it comes out next week and, if they feel strongly about any issues, voice their opin- ions. Continued on page 4 WebCam Arrival by Jason Pt~torti Webmastcr As of Monday. february 7. Union College has its very ov-.11 web camera I ive and transmitting im- ages of the cnlk·ge around the world thiough the collcgt: 's Web site. The camera, which is set up look- ing out of a third floor windDw in the Olin building, is pmitim1ed to offer web surfers a picturesque view oftbe Nott Memorial. Social Sciences building and the Reamer Campus C'e11ter. \We \.,anted a busr spot.'' ac- cording to Director of Academic C omputillg Diane Kd ll.\r. The \Web Cam\ rdrcshes the image it displays online every fiH seconds. Accmchng to Director ofPuh\11: Relations Char he Casey, ha' 1ng ..t live camt:ra feed of the l'ntLm Cam- t\US was an tdea first envisrnncd .. by rcc enaly retired l 'nton W ebmastei, Saul :V1orse. C,;mtin11ed o1r page 1

c·ampus Life Page 2 • February 10, 2000 •QJ:rounr.hlensis Security Incident Report Sunday, January 3'0 -Saturday, February 5 Sunday, Janua.ry 30', 2000: Nv incidents to report Monday, January 31, 2000: Larceny Criminal Mischief Larceny Criminal Mischief Life Safety Violation Tuesday, February 1, 2000: Criminal Mischief Criminal Mischief I 2:05pm Ac:h.i:lles Rink. Theft ofsigns. 1:OOpm Davidson House. Toilets vandalized. 1:27pm North College. Theft ofback-pack and contents. 3:30pm Alumni Gym. Women's locker-room in disarray 11 :45pm Davidson HalL Use ofcandles. 1 :58amReamerCenter. Vandalism to wall. 8:08am Fox House. Vandalism to wall. Wednesday, February .2. 2000: Criminal Mischief Harassment Parking/Driving Violations Motor Vehicle Accident 7:05am Nott~Seward lot. Vandalism to vehicle. 1 0:32am McKean House. Harassing phone calls. l 0:1Oam Lamont Lot. Vehicle immobilized due to outstanding Violations. 6:35pm Nott St. Employee property damage accident. Thursday, February 3, 2000: Alcohol Abuse Burglary Attempt Motor Vehicle Accident Fire Alarm Suspicious Person I 2:38am Davidson Hall. Suspect identified. Conduct Charges filed. 8:00am S&B. Storage room attempted break-in. 1:09pm Alumni Gym lot. Property damage accident 5:38pm 3 r 1 Seward Place. Accidental cause from cooking. 8:05pm Alumni Gym. 2juveniles inside locker room. Parent _ · Contacted a11d advised. Criminal Mischief Friday, February 4, 2000: Criminal Mischief Fire Alarm Saturday, February 5, 2000: Life Safety Violation Fire Alarm Criminal Mischief 9:28pm Edwards House. Vandalisn:fto door~· Facilities cal1ed in For repair. 9:33am Raymond House. Graffiti written on wall. 11 :35pm Edwards House. Beer splashed in smoke detector. 1 :36am SoutltCollege. Malicious activation of a fire pull station. Life Safety Violation issued. 2:44am 704 Huron St. Accidental cause from cooking. 4:30pm Raymond-Potter lot. Vandalism to vehicle. Have you heard? Union College's first annual CULTURAL CELEBRATION is happening this Saturday in Old Chapel! The celebration will take place from 7 pm- 2 am. The first few hours of the celebration will consist of a variety of exotic foods ordered from various restaurants, as well as prepared from dining services. An African dance troupe, featuring two of our own Union stu- dents, will perform, as well as performances from student groups such as ASU, Shakti, ALAS, MSAand Cela. In addition., a DDJ. will be playing music from the Caribbean: including soca, calypso, reggae, latin, etc ••.• The event is free, and there's something for everyone. Don't miss it because there hasn't been anything like it at Union for years!!!! See you there. Student Forutn Notes February 2, 2000 Call to Order4 7:05 PM Attendance: Andrew Markowski(L); Erin Aloan (L); Jon L~mle(A) Approval of Minute$: Via Email; rninutes approved Officer Reports: VP of Admildstr:\lti«,Jil (Cbrjsty Weaf4)r)~NotbJng to report VP Qf Finance (lJriitn Roache)-$4f)9 granted '.to multiculfl,iral celebr,ation; . working on implementing l)olicy thatwillt~ltiml:ltely cutb further student adivi- ties copier abuse; DutG-h Pipers a$king for $4800 to help pt<:iduce CD (vote. tabled until next Week) • VP of Campus Life (Paul Stewart-Stand)-Wint¢r Carnival {2/4\2/5): Fri\ Casino Night@ Old Cb.apel; Sat~Ic~ carving, performances in Nott Memorial, F<lrrnal at {)pperclass VP of AAC (Dane'tte Slevinski).Working on improving computer science program; honor code issue tabled until spring term; need member frcm student forum to represent student opinion on sub-conunittee for calendar semester system (vs. tri-semester) VP of Multicultur~l Affairs (D~!Jbie Pellish).Biack history ,Jl'l()nth; MAG luncheon (Thurs., 2/3 @noon); nmltij;ultural celebration(2/12) Trustees(Andy Markowski)-Working on newsletter for trustees( via email); , wo1,1ld like more input in regards to CDC: evaluati<m IFC (Tom McKinney)-Halfwaythroughrush; new IFC executive board to . bedected next week PanHel (Megban O'Keefe)-inforrnal rush meeting next week; registration for :rush to take place 8 111 week TiiC (fan Eletz)-Recruitment underway; planning for ,jnfonnalevent spon- sored by theme houses in Old Chapel (2/23 @ 9:30PM) Class of 2000 (Karen DeVito)-Voting taking place in regards to senior cla$s gift; March 4, is 100 days celebratiotl Ulltil graduation party at N ott Memorial Class of 2001 (Steve Schuler)-Nothing to report Class of 2002 (Julie Wittekind)·Ca.Ildy raffle sale went well Class of 2003 (Pooja Kothari)- Will begirt fundraising after ValetJtine 's Day Committee Reports:: SAC: (JenCaruso )-FIJI housing review next week Old Business: 6000 Phone Line-Spoke to Sgt. To meek and Bill .Sickinger; witl implement automated phone line .into Union College telecommunications system to take strain off security Security Issues-Light at Union Ave. Gate-Purchase ·Of light at .gate looks promising SAC's Alcoh6l Poliey~Student Forum wrote letter to be sent to SAC in regards to suggested changes to alcohol proposal New Business: New Member of Calendar Committee-As VP ofAAC stated, student fomm representative needed tl> serve on subcommittee; incharge of proposing reasons fm semester calendar (last year President Hull will allow dil!cussi()n .to con- tinue)-Kevin Nealon chosen to serve.on subcommittee U2K Committee-Members ofStuc:lentForum received proposals inrnailbox; discussion about proposals tabled u11til next week · Mail Van-Van didn't pick up some students a couple of weeks ago; miscom- munication·, keys were misplaced (11eedbetter communication between security ar.td driver} Annount;e10ents: Would like some changes made toaluttmi gymequipment/ schedule/etc. (discussion next week) Motion to Adjourn:. Second: meeting adjourned at 8:40PM Announcements Winter 2000Seminal· Series February 10: \Where Wilderness Preservation Began\ February 17: \FromSiberia to the Adirondacks\ February 24: ''People, Partnerships and Politics: A View from the Chair'' March 2 :.''WildVisions\ March 9: \Adirondack Folk, Bluegrass and Clog Dmcing\ All events take place in the Nott Memorial at 7 PM \If your vagina could talk, what would it say?\ Come to the Vagina Monolou2es Monday, February 14 7 PM rn Old Chapel Union College Undergraduate Summer Research Fellowships Available · Earn .. $25()0 plus free room at the Colleee. All applicants must have a faculty sponsor. Get informatioJl and applications at the Dean's Office S100 Scieilce Center Applicatioils due March 1. .; l i : ( M se du idt na lil va gr. va Ni tie ar sir bl: tbt A~ ru Tl as Tl bl: cb of Nl wl $1 su tal Wi wl re th Of: cb st~ WI

Campus News C!r~t.tttor.bh!nsis•February 10, 2000 • Page 3 Ga01bler's Naked N ott Runs Anonymous Caught on Camera ..• continued from page 1 by llamiah Gaw Staff Writer 'Illree years ago, Liz Schmitt and. Mike Winn beganan eventthat re~ sembled Fall Fest but occurred during the Winter term. After the idea was accepted, it was rightfully named the Winter Carnival. Just like the fall events, Winter Cami~ val has always been run by the Pro~ gram Assistants. The kickofftothe WinterCami~ val this past weekend was Casino Program Assistant. The raffle was not completely • \When he left, the pmjectfell at even because more tickets were a time when no one was here to awarded to the high~rollers. Once · take care of it.\ After several a gambler won $5~000 worth. of •· monthsofpickingupwnereMorse chips, he could cash in the tokens . · left off,. the camera is now fully op- formoreraffle tickets. erational. At 11 :30 PM, prizes were raffled Web cameras are a hybrid be- off. Gifts included a Brita water fll- tween standard and video cameras ter, a large jar .of pretzels, and a · in that they take multiple pictures Discman. at a certain interval, but not fast The annual \Search for the enough to deliver a f111l motion Golden Ticket\ contest lead up to · video feed. They have become in- Casino Night with the grand fmale · creasingly popular on the Internet winner announced after the raffle. over the last few yeats and can now be found pointed nearly anY''I'here in the world. Web earns now take live photos of outdoor vistas, zoos and cities as well as indoor shots <Jfradio stu- dios, museums and anywhere else imaginable. Colleges and universities are no exception and are always looking for new ways to show prospective students the best theii campuses have to offer. Other colleges have offered this feature for some time, including Dartmouth College, the University of California. at Berke~ ley arid Bucknell University. page gives site visitors a taste of historical Union music. The power behind Union's web cam is a self-contained Web server and network camera from Axis commtmity\ both on and off cam- pus. Students on terms abroad and alumni alike can now view the cam- pus anywhere in tl!e world. The camera visiting the ege Web site as well as lying to Union has a great looking campus, the \kind of thing we can show ile Plloto The Olin Center is now the home of the \WebCam.\ cated Union staff members H.illary Olk/CP Students bet high stakes at the black jack table. Union is the latest to offer this feature to complement the online campus virtual tour, providing 360 degree panoramas of locales on carppus, and the Sounds of Uniou Communications. The Axis 200+ digital snapshot camera delivers pictures in standard JPEG format directly into the Union College Ethernet backbone. Charlie Casey explained how the web cam was an important feature for''members oftheUnionCollege spent serious overtime hours to get the camera operational this week- end. Without their hard work, Union would not have this latest piece of technology. The web cam can be viewed at the Alumni Sights and Sounds sec- tion of the Union web site. Night in Old Chapel. The festivi- ties beg:m on ~riday night at 9 ,PM. Old Chapel was converted into a regular gambling hall. Most ca- sino games were there, including blackjack, roulette, and craps. For the past three years, the Prog~arn Assistants have asked Student Fa- rum to help out with Casino Night. The members we.re asked to serve a.s \profession~).}\ card dealers. They wore white collared shirts, black pants, and a colorful tie of choice. Each participall.t was given a bag of chips upon arriving to Casino Night. The bags held black and white tokens, wurth $1,000 and $100 ;respectively. With this $3,000, students couldbetat any gambling table. All participants hoped that luck was on their side. Ifluck was no where to be found, a one-time bag refill was granted. A raffle took place at the end of the night. In order to give every- one an equal chance, each bag of chips contained ()Tie raffle ticket to start. \Everyone has a chance to win,\ commented Erin Aloan, a Throughout the week, many ~hitesi~werehUJ.Igallovercam- f----------~---------------------------- ~:~:;~;::g .. ~~~~~~=::1.; w·· · ... · 0· ·r· k.• .·I·n.· .g·. w· .. J.tb l·ce with a picture of a sun, one eye bigger than the other. However, one ticket had the words \golden ticket\ written on it instead. The lucky person to fmd this advertise- ment around campus won a thir- teen inch color television, awarded on Friday. This year's lucky winner was sophomore Angel Fontanez. He found the winning ticket in the Campus Center in_ between the main double glass doors. That spot was a secretive place because the doors were locked due to falling . icicles. One change to the Winter Carni- · val tradition was the addition of a cash bar at Casino Night. Those of age could indulge in alcoholic refreshments served in Hale House. There was a great turnout and everyone gambler had a great time. Overall, the event was a big suc- cess and a wonderful way to start . the Winter CarnivaL by Katrina Tentor Opinions Eilitor On Saturday February 5, Union's third annual Winter Carnival held its second event of the weekend. Winter Carnival 2000 consisted of Casino Night, Ice Carving, Union's Best, and the Winter For- mal. The events, including the Ice Carving Contest sponsored by the dent Activities gram Assistants Office .. Fifteen to twenty, 300. pound blocks of ic were placed in L1L1la1 Plaza fot the ice ing contest. Thirteen groups got to test their talents from 1 :00 PM to · 5:00PM. Teams started to ar- rive at 1 :00 PM to out their block of with the help of tures, sketches, and ideas. Electrical, battery and gas carving vices were orc1hil>ited chocolate and coffee for all the contestants. Prizes included $80 and $45 gift certificates to the Van Dyck, and $75 and $25 credit on school valedine. Each ice sculpture was rated based on creativity and use of ice. The judges consisted of three employees in Dining Services. To- gether, they decided the top four sculptures. Katie ilais/CP from the contest. Irons hot pots, saws, chis- els, hammers and manual carving tools The Icebox works on their \Jester. '' were used to develop masterpieces in the ice. PA Liz Schmitt stated, \'ParticiR pation was great. People vtere walk- ing around and the sttidents in the contest were extremely into it.~' The Coffeehouse P't()Vided hot \Jester\ was the winning ice cre- ation carved by the \Icebox.\ Members.oftheteam included Jolm Kleinman, Veronica Sack, and Ian White. From Wells House, Marin Richardson, Emily DeSantas, Jim DeWann, Sean Spindler- Ranta, Sarah Shoemaker and Mike Iger collaborated to win second place for their hard work on a \Space Shuttle.\ Captain Richardson said that it was their best idea out of the three years. Welts House was defending champions for an \Ice Castle\last year, and \Sword in the Stone\ in the very first ice carving contest. Tying for third place, the Biol- ogy Club created a .. Frog,\ and an \Elephant.\ Team \Sinkibets el- ephant sculptors included Ellen Taylor, Jon Jones; and Stephanie Sienkiewicz. Each team won 75 dollars on their valedines. Honorable mention and 25 dol- lars on valedine was swept up by The Coffeehouse in their efforts to carve a diamond ring. First prize was displayed at the Winter Formal in Upperclass Din- ing, on .Saturday evening, and sec- ond place was displayed at the second floor entrance to the for- mal The remaining ice sculptures lined the entrance int<> the campus center and were strung with twinkle lights. Other contestant groups con- sisted of\'Turtle\ by Psi Upsilon, the Society of Hispanic Profes- sional Engineers duplicated their logo, \Chess Game in Progress\ by the Chess Club, '\Concordiensis\ by the Couordy Editors, \Smokin Buddha by the Ganges,\ by Asad Chaudhry, .. Homer,\ by Team Simpson, and \The Shroomen Cloud,\ by Hathawhiskey. .

The American Diet Union Robot - - by Clare Canal Contributing Writer duction, a Str()nger immune system, heart, and nervous system. as well as ca•lorie btuning. diet as that which equally consists of all food groups or \Big Macs of nutrition,\ proteins, fats, carbohy- drates and water. Wins Overseas The female community of any college campus is no stranger to the difficulties that arise when try- ing to fit good food and fitness into a busy life. This was the topic that best· .-~elling author and New York Times columnist Jane Brody spoke on when she visited Union College on Wednesday, February 2. Despite advertisements around campus, the largest contingency represented at the .speech was not students, but middle-aged working women. The ideas presented in Brody's speech, however, related more with the lifestyle of the type of audience present. The audience listened eagerly. She is an expert o.n woman's health, the author of ten books and numerous maga- zine articles, radio guest and the recipient of countless awards. \Do you consider carbohy- drates fattening or consider protein the most important el- ement in food?\ Brody asked these questions among oth- ers to test how well prepared the audience was for healthy living in the twenty-first cen- tury. Similar to the advice of any nutritionist, Brody fo- cused on lifestyle changes in both eating and exercise. She emphasized that a ltealthy life is not one of depravation and denial, stating tlla:t you must \eat to live and live to eat, making eating a basic Brody stt:essed that varying ex- ercise creates lean muscle tissue. This should be as incorporated as a daily habit, such as tooth brush- ing. Weigll.t should never be the focus of any diet sinceapb.ysically fit woman who is a &ize four could weigh the same or more than one who is a size ten. \Too many women use ciga- rettes inste!td of exercise to con- trol weight,\ stated Brody. The single leading cause of deathin the United States is lung cancer, kill- ing fifty percent more women than breast cancer. The fear of fat Brody said with the over-con- sumption of protein in the diets of Americans, \We put so much ni~ by Sloan Miller S&TSditor trogen in the toilets of America that F ot the seven Union students if we could harvest it we wouldn't who returned last Sunday from have any need for artificial fettil- · their. venture toTurkey, the trip was izer.\ · a success. The th:ree teams of Bmdy stressed that moderation · Union engineers, along with their in each of these food groups is the · Turkish counterparts, participated key to a healthy diet. · · in the fourth year .of the Interna- F at is the real killer in the Ameri- tional Virtual Design: Stttdio (NDS) can ·diet. Every Union student is term abroad. An.lnternational com- a ware of the smeUs that waft · petition was held at The Middle around the tantalizing Cinnabon East Technical University (METU) while strolling around Cross gates . in Ankara, Turkey. Mall. According to At the engineering send-off Brody, one bun contains party twodays before the team left, 670 calories and thirty- · the autonomous robots were hav- four grams offat. Dietary ing problems comp-leting their de- foods are not always the . sired tasks. The assigned task for best either. Fat free · the robots was to navigate along a foods usually invoke straight, curved and inclined track, larger portions and recDgnizing andpqpping balloons sugar-free sweeteners randomly placed along the sides actually increase sugar of the track. Up u11til the time the nsumption because students left, they were tinkering ofa theoretically height- with their robots ill an attempt to · ened sweet tooth. In perfect the machine's performance. fact, sugar consumption The IVDS teams were composed has shot up twenty- ofthe following students. Team eight pounds per per- one included seniors Bryan Roy, a . son, per year since the Mechanical Engineer (ME), and introduction of sweet- Jolm Daley, an Electrical Engineer eners. (EE). Team two consisted of seniors The other killer in the · Dave Copeland, a Computer Sci- American diet is insuffi- ence major (CS), George Powers, a cient water consump- Computer.SystemsEngineer(CSE) tion. Brody commented and Sean Spindler-Ranta, an ME. that anything containing Team three included seniors Kah caffeine or alcohol acts Mun Low, an EE, and Greg Will- as a diuretic and flushes . iams, an ME. Accompanying the pleasure.\ Union College may be un- · Jeremy Messler/CP water from the system. students to Turkey were Profes- Jane Brody speaks about health to a full house. The answer to healthy sors Cherrice Traver and John aware of the benefits of exer- ------------------- living is not found in fad Spinelli. In addition, each .of the should notltold women back from diets, deprivation, starvation or Union teams wereteamedupwith cise, but is no stranger to it. The College is filled with an enormous varsity sports program and there is constant overcrowding of the sports facilities. \Exercise doesn't take time, it makes time,\ said Brody as she continued to list the benefits of ex- quitting the harmful habit ifexer- cise is used as a substitute. Brody, wlto received a B.S. in Biology from Cornell University, described the body as a finely tuned biochemical machine. After alluding to the poor nutrition of Bill bingeing, but in moderation and two Turkish stude11ts, one ME and gradual lifestyle changes. one EE. ••What is more important than Last fall, the Tu:rkish students kara, the more capable ofthe two rnhots was chosen to participate in the coltl,petition. For the most part, the Union and :METU teams prc;>spered atthe com~ p~tition. The Turkish version of the teanHWo robot claimed first place. team one came in a close second place by using Union's version of the robot and team three successfully completed the as- signed task but did not place in the competition. .. I was vety happy with our re- sults in the competition, but be- cause of a few changes in the com- petition track, many of the teams were unable to adjust to complete the course,\ said Bryan Roy. ''Lt's disappointing to see all that work pllt in with an unsuccessful re- sult.\ While in Turkey, the students in general felt that they were treated well and were made to feel at home even theuglt they did not know many words of the Turkish lan- guage. Dwing theirfreetimeaway from the competition, the students hung out with their Turkish team- mates and some Canadian partici- pants in Ankara. The students tried diffetent Turkish cuisines and experienced the Turkish bar scene, a good time was had by all. Outside of Ankara, the students visited Istanbul and Cappodocia. In Istanbul, they went sightseeing and visited a Bazaar. In the backcountry of Cappodocia, the students visited underground houses carved from lava rock. The underground city was built seven stories high. ercise. Benefits include stress re- Clinton, she described a healthy yo111 health? Loss of health puts came to Union to fmalize the de- everything else in jeopardy as sign process. Afterweeks of com· well\ Not only will a nourishing municating over the Internet, the diet and exercise bring good health, · three teams were reunited just prior but it will also bring happiness. to the competition. Both the Union Kah Mun Low summarized the experience by saying \It was inter- esting since it 'simulated' an ac- tual engineering, team project with half of the team on the other side of the planet. Exposed to con- straints such as intercultural com- munication, time and physical separation\ Winter Wonderland night went really well, there were over 500 people in attendance and I heard nothing but good things throughout the ui:ght.\ Junior Erin Aloan agreed with Schmitt, saying, \There was really good attendance and we were really happy with the numbers this year.\ The formal ended the 2000 Winter Car- nival weekend. It was a fabulous finish ~o a weekend of alternative activities on campus provided by the dif- ferent organizations; associated with stu-· dent activities. ... continued from page 1 Friday to g11ard against interfer- ence with <;~sino Night. They also requested that on Sat- urday, fraternities noto:pen at regu- lar times for parties but instead open earlier for cocktail parties. community having such a great time.\ Unfortunately, the winter formal did not go off without a hitch. Two females and one male went to the hospital. Two of the students were from Union and one was .from Slcidmore. Mani Daneshmand, the UMED supervisor Satur- day night, was only al- . lowed to say, \the inci- dences appeared to be al- cohol related.\ There is a conunon myth on campus that Students dance the night away at the Winter Formal. Student activities was not offering a comment on these events, however Sclnnitt stated, \The stu- dents were not drinking at our event nor were they drinking at the fraternities because they were not WinterCamivalweek- ----~--------------~­ open.\ end is normally \dry.\ According to Schmitt, this is not the case. The Program Assistants ap- pealed to the IFC and requested that all fraternities open later on The IFC agreed, and both requests were carriecl out. Accordinj5 to Sophomore An- drea Alderrtlan, \It was gteat to see so many members of the campus Furthermore, Schmitt stated the actions of these students wi11 not have. a negative effect on any fu- ture events hosted by the Program Assistants. College team andtb.e METU team had built and tested identical ro- bots. When the teams met in An- Concordiensis would like to congratulate alf of the studen1s who participated in this project. Bryan. Roy and Sean Spindler-Ranta in Turkey. D() yol:f w·11gt t~ see y<J:ur wo·rlt.:~ll . . · · · ·pri~tt? · · · · \ .•· '« ... ' .!':\.-.-.· __ ·-.:;:.,. __ _ : -.':..>. ·. ,·;_·-!;< •, ~ ·,· :.;':~:;· -·,_ .. ,·-_:· •. ::t<. \Yr1te for:tbe Concordzens1s! · .. · Tbur~dayS. rl\1, ... 3(J3: B.ealu.e~··:· ...... .

Staying Healthy SoUp Lover's Paradise by IJillary ()Jk . .Staf!Writer Most importantly, wear !=l hat be- cause aGcordjng to Mosi~r, fifty · by Kristep Zadourian .percent of body beat is lost StafJWriter throughyourhead. Finally donot · Have you joined the Soup drink alcohol because it severely Lover'sClubattheRathskellaryet? impairs the immune system If not, make sure to stop in for a Furthe:rm.ore, to prevent the oc- bowl of delicious:CampbelF s· soup When winter arrives in Schenectady, everyone becomes very familiarwith the.infornrative posters and pamphlets that hang on the walls cfUnion ~.s health cen- currence ofthe flu~ Mosierempha- and pick up your Soup Lovers ter, SillimanHall. Fteeinforrnation sized ·the importance of keeping · membership card today. Bu:y six is always available on a wide tange distance· from those wllo are in- · bowls and you w:ill receive the sev- of subjects r~ngjng from diseases, fe.cted. Other ways to remain enth free, all varieties are include& flu and colcl,. to eating disorders, healthy include frequent hand- It is a nice warm •treat on a cold Planned Parenthood, an.d nutrition. washing to reduce the risk of catch- winter's day. The Rathskellar has Luckilytlle flu outbreak has net ing a cold or flu, avoidance of ciga- • started a new trend this term, giv- hit Union's cam- rette smoke,. in- ing the students what they want. pus. According to Mstiort of fluids • Tiw staff at the 'Skellar, along with Doctor's Assis- \[To g·. uard and management the members of the executive din- taut Sandy M()sier, of stress 1 ev.els. · ing service committee, are working \Over six hliJldred · . . • . ( ld J· Also, follow a . hard to increase the popularity of people got their tJgQlHS CO · S, good diet arrdget the 'Skellar. flu shotthisyear.\ h. . enough sleep. The Rathskellar would like to The health fair, Wear Q at Jessica Brys, give a warm welcome back tothe which offered b .j; . .ji. Health Educator . \grillmeisters Meningitis and flu . eCQUSe J '.J IJ' for Union's • Cal Robinson and Seth Wright, shots; was held in Health Services students who were studying on the fall this year, percent o_/\ Departrnent,isea- termsabroadinthefall. Also, wel- insteadofits regu- 'J ger to help stu- . come Freshmen Pete Gaynor ind lat time in the IJOd'l . . ,. heat is dents and clubs international student Chun Xu to spring. Alth()ugh 'J on campus get all · the Rathskellar staff. there were a good f t t.h h. the information New this term~the 'Skellarhasa number o.rp~ople tOS .· : . roug they need on cappuccino machine, greatforstu- who received the h h d '' health r.elated dents walking fromthe lower cam- flu shot, Mosier t e .· .· ea . subjects .. $he has . pus dorms to St()p by and pic:k up comment~<l that a large variety of · on the way to class. If you l!ave there has been· ....... ~~----~-------' information on . time to stop in on the way or be- more response in the past. Stu- dents are more concerned with avoiding the unforgivable common cold. A lot of tired, over-studied, run\ down students flanked the doors of Silliman right before mid-term week. Health services suggests that protecting yourself from the cold weather is the first step to- ward a sick:ttess-free winter. Limit cold exposure time and wear many layers of loose-fitting clothing when necessary to he outside. subjects such as STDs, birth con- . tween classes for a hot cu:p of tro] options, alcohol and drug · cappuccino, ask about the new abuse, nutrition, exercise, and skin . magazines available to read. cancer .. Brys is also a contact and With your Union ID, you can a good source for scheduling borrowthemagazineofyourchoice speakers for clubs and organiza- to read while eating, or takill,g a tions. study break. The magazines cur- Union's Uealth Services is not rently available are Spin, Fortune, just for the sick, but also f<Jr those · Entertainment Weekly, Baseball searching for information on · Digest, and Mother Jones. New health-related topics. The Health titles will be offered based on sag- Services staff is more than happy gestions from students and the t'O answer any questions or t<J help success of the new program. in any way possible. The Rathskellar is also offering daily and weekly specials this tenn, a new sign has been made and will be bung outside, so that the c.am- pus community wilt be aware of the specials and also most importantly ofthe hours of operation. Tomorrow will be the start of the new Eggplant Pannesansandwich.. Three new Fresh Samantha's Body Zoomers have arrived at the Downstairs,\ trivia questions are asked to _the audience for the chance to call in and win :five dol- lar gift certificates for the \Skellar. Speaking of music, the Rathskellar has added seven new songs to the jukebox. and will con- tinue toaddthemregularly. Come take a look at the selection and sug- gest some new songs tllat you The Rathskeller now offers daily specials. would like to s e e added. There is a s u g - gestion box on the wall directly in front of the main e n - trance door. I n 'Skellar this past week, \Get Smart,\ \The Big Bang\ and \Oh Happy Day.\ If you like the taste of a cold smoothie, you will love the tastes of these new flavors. Wing lovers, chunky bleu cheese is here! Bring your buddies for a study break, order wings by the dozen and en- joy the taste of the new bleu cheese. Also, for the healthy eaters out there, two new yogurt flavors have beenadded to the regular rotation. The flavors are a delici()US new peach, and a sweet new banana strawberry. Yogurt is a great quick and easy breakfast to pick up on the way to class. WRUC fans, Thursday from 5 PM to 7 PM on the show \The Boys terms of events at the 'Skellar, tomorrow night, Idol Minds will bepoerforrn- ing at 9 PM. Idol Minds, an Improv group on campus, will be waiting on the tables and providing great entertainment. This will be a great time to try out the new bleu cheese with your wings along with the new Ocean Spray flavor Kiwi Straw- berry to cool your taste buds. Long term plans are being made for the Rathskellar now. For the spring, the 'Skellar is looking into the possibility of \having smoothies for those hot spring days. Also in the re$earch and de- velopment stages is the p()ssibil- ity of adding California rolls to the menu. Check out the new a!lditions to the Rathskellar! Photos of China There are pictures of China's Great Wall, the Three Gorges sec- tion of the Yangze River, Tiananmen Square in Beijing, and Winter Talent at Union by Profess.cr Marti:nBenjamiil Contributing Writer On Tuesday F ebruruy 8, a recep- s4nilar sites in Nanjingand SliZhou. tion was held in Strauss Lounge to Also, there are intimate depictions mark the opening of a two-week- of children, families, soldiers and . long photogTaphy exhibition titled factory workers. \China Turns Fifty.\ More than CommentiJlg.on the exhibit, Pro- thirty photos are on display. They fessor Benjamin said, \Tile pic- were taken by six participants in tures in the display reflect some of Union's Fall 1999TermAbroadpro- the experiences and discoveries gram, inNanjing,China. thatwerereal:izedbythegroup. Ev- Students who wentoverseas in- ery day Was an adventure for each eluded Martin Benjamin, Julia participant and being in the ..,.,.,.,~~--~---.People's Re- Term abroad students in Shanghai, China. public of China for the Fiftieth Anni- on 1 stoil€ in China's long history.\ The recep- tion and ex- ~~--~--~~~---~------ hibit were Chan, Dollllil Fitzgerali, Keiko Ota, Jason J;.-ederer, and Adam-Paul Smolak. The artists were members of a group who spent th.e fall study- ing at Nanjillg Normal University, under the direction of Professor Benjamin. both organized by the East Asian · Studies Program and the Visual Arts Department. The photos will remain on dis· play in Strauss Lounge in the Cam- pus Center for two weeks, until . Tuesday February 22. by Katrina Tentor Opinions Editor On Saturday, February 5, from 2:00PM to 4:00PM, the Nott Me- morial served as a venue site for one of Winter Carnival 2MO's many activities. Union's Best, consisted of The Dutch Pipers, Idol Minds, The Gar- net Minstrelles, the Dance Team, and the Kappa Alpha Drum Circle. Program Assistant Liz Schmitt stated, \It was a great crowd; over 200people.\ The Pipers kicked off this year's · event. The only \ail male a cap:lJella . group on campus~\ entertained a standing room only crowd with six songs. The nine talented musicians played right to the crowd when Mike Pilo sang \In the Still of the Night.\ During th:e song, Pilo ser- enaded a girl from the audience, while taking off his tie and unbut- toning his shirt. At the end of the song, all the Pipers had changed out of their slacks, shirts and ties, into a Hawaiian theme, with t -shlrts, shorts and sandals. The group sang \Take on Me,\ with Werblin as the main soloist. Pakk Hui filled the Nott with his voice as he sang \I'll Walk with You.\ \Change in My Life\ wastbe fi- nale song in which Olazagasti led in vocals. Other contributors to the group include Mike Parisi, Adam Pischel, Ben Serrell and Mike Capraro. The Pipers are involved with other area colleges in a \Thruway Concert\ on February 26. Watch for details of this upcoming event. The Dutch Pipers are currently in the process of ma:king a CD that will be on sale this spring. Idol Minds, Union's Improv Group took the stage next. Dressed in black shirts and khakis, the seven members imitated the Pipers and sang their own rendition of '~Living on a Prayer.\ The first game the group played was the \Dating Game.\ Host, Mike Winn asked the audience for suggestions about the pwfiles <Jf the two hachlorettes and one bach- elor, played by Liz Kaier, Suzanne Hoyer, and Owen Hay. Kaier was a big fan of Beverly Hills 90210, Hoyer though.t she was Donald Duck, and Hay was suffer- ing from a hernia. Greg Fox asked each of the contestants several questions, and figured out their profiles through the clues that they gave in the answers. Avrum J<Jffe and Dave Jacks im- provised as professional hockey players at a construction site in the next scene. Eugene Schultz along with Winn and Joffe played \Geme Rewind,\ a skit set in a prison. Schultz and W inn had a running dialog in a prison cell, and Joffe supported their conversation. The three acted out a Shakespearean play, a confu movie, a musical and then turned themselves into crocodile bunters. Kaier stated, \We're such a saucy bunch!\ Idol Minds will have anotherperfonnance later this tenn. The Garnet Minstrelles followed Idol Minds with seven songs .. \River\ and ''Can't Be Witih YQu..\ ' ' with soloist Renee Rinaldi started off their show. The Minstrelles is Union ;s all female a cappella group made up of thirteen women. Three girls sang \For the Longest Time\ and Ali Fr:itz led the group with \Can't Hurry Love.\ Dawn Stapleton sang \Lone and Megan O'Donnell performed a version of \Higher and Higher.\ The musical group finished with \The Shoop Shoop Song,\ sung by Ali Struzziero. The stage was quickly trans- formed for the Union College Dance Team. They performed a short dance number to \Raise the Roof.\ Kappa Alpha Drum Circle ar- rived ten minutes late. By tllat time the audience had dwindled down to check out the ice sculptures in Library Plaza. I .

t ' Unmanageable Paths by Gina Campanella Staff Writer are expected to make the:ir way to On-campus snow removal class at8:25 AM. should be a top priority for the Concordiensis attempt.ed to dis- campus grO'\llldS and maintenance Union College does not, under cover why the snow r~rnoval on crew, not just on major walkways, any circumstance, shut down. campus has not been upttcpar, but but smaller paths as welt. In addi- Sigma Chi Tests Students' IQ This has been a fact that many stu- Campus Operations was not very tion, there is no question that the by Roger McShane dents have grown accustomed to helpful. DirectorofCamp1.1s Safety, campus grounds crew does have Contributing Writer on campus. However, in light of Bill Sickinger turned do0~ an in- the tools and supplies needed to On Thursday, February 3, Sigma the past two snowstorms, a se- clear the campus. Chi attempted to test the academic riou'> question has beenr----~---~-------, Onestudentwho lives in the up- • knowledge of Union College by raised. Why are students ex- \I was shocked when campus area, but did not wish to . hosting its first Tiivial Pursuit pected to walk to classes on be identified; stated,. \I feel that night. Six teams C()IDpeted in the sidewalks that are covered in J left the Cam pUS living up campus we get last pri- extremely intense <:ompetition. a foot of snow? ority for snow removal I walked . Pankipants formed their own Students who only attend Center and tO go tQ to class one morning last week on teams and went head to head in afternoon classes may not re- 1· ,1 h • un-shoveled walkways and by the ·. alize this problem exists, but mY C aSS anu t . B maln time I arrived in the Campus Cen- those students who have wafkWa\S dOWfl ter, I was soaked frem the knees morning classes are well aware 'J down. However, I w:as shocked of the rather slow snow re- camp US Were not when I left the Campus Center to moval on campus. It is not go to my class and the main walk- uncommon to see students on cleared either 1 \ ways down campus were not . line at The Dutch hollow at cleared either!\ SAM with snow-covered With the expansion of student pants and soaked feet. terview stating he wollld not be housing to th.e Lenox Road area the categories of history, sports and leisure, people and plac.es, sci- ence .and nature, arts and entertain- ment, and wild card. The diverse group of competi- tors proved competent in all cat- egories, however by the endofthe night a champion was crowned. Information about the new Trol- able to provide sufficci ent facts. and the Sew(lrd community, it has ley system revealed that the streets Tom Hi singer, the h.ead of the been suggested .that for the well- · · on and around campus are not pri- Grounds Crew, was Wlav-ailable for being of the student body and the oritized for plowing and snow re- comment. new Union housing programs that . moval. Many students have come One question addresses the idea the college ensure compfete snow to terms with the fact that clearing of the priority of snow removal at removal as ·early as the first class. on-campus sidewalks and path- Union College. If the Union Col- If courses are not cancelled for the ways is not even close to top pri- lege campus has its 0~11 grounds day, than it is imperative to have olity. crew responsible for 11:1<J:intenance all passageways cleared. However, Union students and snow removal ()n_ campus, However, students who are look- · should be able to expect clear side- then why are unpassab ]e: paths still ing for immediate answers to their walks and pathways because they a problem? questions will just have t0 wait. A fierce fmalround left most .of the pa)i:icipants exhausted. On its third try in the middle square the .greea. team, led by Peter Tomasi, answered correctly tbe following question: What American physi- cist.poioneered the th,eozy of\black holes\ ·in 1939? T0omasi attributed his superior bt~:inpower to a diet rich in donut holes, beef jerky and cigarettes. Rmrner-up team captain, Jim Desr()chers joked, \I learned more at Trivial Pursuit night than dur- ing rny ·first terrnat Union.\ Event coordinator Ben Gauthier calle-d the competition a \success\ and hoped for an even better tum- out lin the future. ; .. ::~The Three -Blind .Mice -·· WHAT DO THESE PICTURES HAVE IN COMMON? On March-3-2000, the number \3'· will be the access number everyone will have to dial to make an -off-campus call from Union College's telephone lines. This change affects residence hall lines and academic and administra- tive lines. Access number \9'r will be for 911 Emergency. Calls ONLY. You will be receiving more information from the Tele- communications Office. Remember, on 3-3 you must dial \3\ I The Three Amigos

Eggplant SUbs 12' 1 $4.89 _,n $'139 Now available at The ·skellar To11y Branch Diredor of the ~ri~ls~ American Drama Academy will be here on ~r~~-·-~3.- .. ~ .. ~c -. o~--~-~-1.9. .. _ ............ in~ ..... ~Jiii!J«f ~ l-ie will be hiQppy to meet with students interested in BADA's programs: 1 The London Theatre Program Preserrted in associ;ation w1th Sarah lawrence College at Regents Pork london 2 The Midsumm~r in Oxford Program Pr~sented with fhe Julliord Sch(Jol and UClA at Balliol Col;lege, Oxford 3 The Snake.speare Program Presented in association winh Skidmore College in Stratford-upon-Avon a11d in London 'Wh€re appllcalile 4 lntrodwction to Film Program Advanced Film Program Presented by the Bt~tis~ American Film Academy IBAFAj in assoc:iaticn wifu Vassar College ALL WELCOME Flights for Airtech Mexico/Caribean or Central America $229 Round-Trip Europe $169 One-Way Other Worldwide destinations CHEAP! ONLY TERRORISTS GET YOU THERE CHEAPER! Book tickets on•line at www.airtech.com or 212-219-7000 · ... Tuesday 'll%2 - ~ <, ' $500 Cash Pri·ze! The Union Chapter of Alpha Delta Phi announoes tile :iirst annual AL\~Campus-Wide Literary Competition Categories for submission: Fietion and Non·Fietion r.- A Cash Prizeof$200willlie awarded in each category. rv· The Samuelle. Prize: One Cash Prize of $500 will b(> awarded to the best o\ferall entry. In case yoU're stuck, here u.-e some suggeSted topic areas to get you sk'U'ted: • Non-iiction: Histnry,.C1urcnt El•tmtR, SciciiCU, Tedltlology, tln! Arts. • l•;ict1on Shol't Sti»'J, Short Stage Play, Rodi1:1.Play, Potltry. For more inrormallon Cllnlact Brendan Lofton. 5Ul.3B8-I!l:lb <loltonhtidol.unionedu> L The De:11ilinP fur Suhmt.,mn~ 1:< Apnll, JOOt! 2. SttbnJtt all ~11tms at thl' of/let' r·f th..· F.nd;.-h })el,mtml•llt. un th!' 2nd flonrllfthi' Huma~i\~' lroil~ling. :1. F...;~cb ~llblllL'i.'ll!JO must tndude tlu?t' pnnto~l '\'il''\' and a 3 5\' disk lin M~ \V{lnl or otlwr ~'<.nnmllniHJ~d fllill'lAtL 4. E11ch oopy must include a CO\'er .sheet wntJurung. ruuilC. sullmissiool:l!tt>gllryt\'i.tt.ion· (lr \non-fi~t.wn· title of etltry, current nddms, pbone number. dass yenr, studefl~ ID #. 1Cover shEet arailable 11t the oflk~ of the English Department\ 5. Earll sureesstve page l!lUst eunt.:un only d Pill!< number, entry title, nnd ~tud~nt ID t:. 6. Only ooe subm1~S1on per l;lltegil:cy p11r ~tud,•nt w11l 00 lltl:llpttm. 7, i\L\111 r~serv~ the tight m fJUbht:h all works S!lbmitlcd. 8. This ~llljllltitiun is opmlttl all· currently entolltltl und~rgtllduate Union C\)llego studtm!sonly.

Page .8 · February 10, 2000. • (!J:.oxtt::nr~ie: . -. ' Redirecting Blame On Monday morning, a profess;or on campus asked his class, \How was your weekend?\ He was intrigued when there were a variety of answers. A simple question resulted in a fifty minute discussion about the srciallife at Union O;)llege. What is there to do on the weekends? Many students agreed that to have fun is to mink, and, as such, this past \Dry Weekend\ forced students either to remain asocial on Satur- day night or stay in their rooms to <h·ink. A result of the aforementioned pro-drinking philosophy is that two people were rushed to Ellis Hosp,ital directly from Upperclass Dining where the Winter Formal was held .. In addition, a third emergency case was brought to Ellis that evening. Of the three. one was a Union stu- dent, one an alumnus, and the third a visiting student from another academic institution. None of the individuals hild consumed alcohol at a Greek house that night. The fact that three people were brought to the hospital Saturday is not insignificant. During the cummt academic term, no student has needed off-campus medical attention as a resultof excessive drinking at _;: ,.r '#(. -.,.. .o:.:_, ! • ~ s \ ·.~~ \_ I fraternity parties. 1-----..~--=----===:.=====--~-'-=-----~-----~~---~---~-------~- dr~~n~~~~::~~:nc~!~:~l~::e!~:::=~::c~:~::~::::~-. Dismal Choices for ·Class Gift a social issue, than a Greek system issue. People are drinking on their To the editors: ing as a lasting mark of the Class own, regardless of whether or n.ot there is a fraternity party. This is 1 am writing to express my ex- of 2000, our gift (in its present evidenced by the overwhelming number of calls made to UMed on Sat~ treme dismay at the choices for the forms} serves only as a way to furid urday night. In fact, UMed received more cans than any other weekend · Senim Class Gift~ as well as at the what the school already p'lans to this term, despite the fact that there were no Greek-sponsoredparties on process by which those choices do. Essentially, the Senior Class Saturday. Clearly, the Greek system was not t(} blame in this instance. were dete!Jlllled. gift is u;ot truly a \gift hut instead The Inter-Fraternal Council made the decision ll:ot to register for parties W)thout any previous infotma- only the frontispiece to an effort on Saturday night due to the Winter Formal, which was sponsored by tion cH:-chance to participate in the to get the Class-or:zooO off to an Student Activities. This decisiG)nby the IFC was made in order to en- SeniorGi:ftprocess, membersofthe early fundraisingstart, akindoffic ... courage people to attend. Class of2000 received a ~allot last tional carrot for us to chase. · There is a lack of viable social alternatives to fraternity parties on the week to choose the Senior Class Unless the current gift choices weekends and we have now seen that even when a school sponsored Gift. This ballot ()ffered four dis- were simply dedicated to them, the event puts the regular parties on hold for a night, the same results can mal chdces: a new campus map;. Senior gift committee seems to be come to pass. new benches outsi<ie the Campus partly at fault. There was no at- When the professor asked wllat alternatives students would like to Center, a bronze seal in the brick- tempt to encourage the participa,.. see on campus, the entire class of fifty- five fellsilent. The student body work of Memorial Chapel, and a tion of the entire class in coming would like to see more optio:Qs on: the weekends than just a couple of schoLarship. All of this choices fit up with gift ideas nor in evaluating fraternity parties, but no suggestions are matte to Student Activities th.e -criterion wh:ich the administra- the ideas and opinions of the and the administration. And when Student Acti:vites attempts to mix up tion set out, that the gift be \somt- whole class, especially when it is the social life on campus, there is a low attendance rate, and complaints thing the class can afford\ and th~ member~ of the class, and not about \Dry Weekend.\ which '\the school needs.\ They just the comthlttee, who will bear It is relatively difficult to dril;lk to the point of sickness at most frater- are also all gifts which are not sym- the burden of financing this gift: nity parties due to the large vc:ilume of people seeking alcohol at the bolic oc commemorative in any Given my conversations with other bars. In the event that someone does get sick at a party, it is more likely sense, but rather frnite and quotid- seniors who are similarly rusaf- than not because of the alcohol that they consumed before they arrived. ian in character; the bench and map fected,_ the committee's choices for In the same manner, many students who went to the Formal had been will eventually need to be replaced, the Se:rtior Gift - and the process drinking beforehand in their ro()ms. It is apparent that people fmd other the :S.eal is to be hid away in the as a whole- seem to be highly rnis- ways to access and consume alcohol than at a fraternity.. brickwork of the Chapel, and the representative of the class~s 'lective product of the entire class, not the work of the administration or a tiny group of seniors. I tis, af- ter all, our money which will fund this gift, and so it should be our efforts and ideas. which create it. I sugg~st that the \canned' choices which we were given to us be just that, canned, and that the comnrit- tee should hold an open meeting for the senior class where new ideas can be presented and evah.i:- ated:. The more that the gift comes ftoin us, the more it can truly be our gift. It is audacious for either the administration or the student committee to simply dictate what we will give, and if they actUally expect the class to give money fo:r a gift which they dislike, they are sorely mistaken .. The goal of the senior gift is not merely to save the College money. Instead, let the se- nio.r class come together and choose the gift according to our own wishes and intent, and let us leave a bold and affecting mark that is truly worthy of our class. How do we solve this problem? Adminis~tion has been debating scho~a.rship will only be enjoyed wishes. the issue for quite some time. Is the answer to slowly deminish the Greek l-_!~~~~~~~Ins~t~ea~d~o~f~s~e~rv~-~-Th~e~Se~n~io~r~G~i~ft~o~u~g~ht~t~o~b~e~a~co~l~----:--:;;:;;:;-:-~~~~~\lR~·:.:· N~ew~ell system? Perhaps we should look.atstudents' te:ndencies to drink, rather p·_ ·. ·u· . n. ·1·. s h. I. n. ' _.g th' . . ·e· .. p· .· a than the places at which they drink on Union's campus. KLT &MSM Fe:llow 1990AlumniandFriends, · trol? When we were at Union Col- lege, only Freshmen were obligated to re~ide in campus housing. Fot the Sophomores who wanted to live ()n campus aild were not in ei- ~ Fraternity or Sorority, the Hoi~\ Lottery was a \chance\ atactu~lly getting a room on cam• pus. I just read in the Concordiensis . tliatJuiliorsarebeing FORCED to live on campus. \Let's punish the paying stUdent-customers for the · iltefficiency and short-sightedness (){the Campus Holising Dll:ectors.\ Union's titade against,-and sys- . tematic elimination of: Greek soci- eties has led to an overabundance ot dorm-room :living that, obvi- oasly, the yast majority of the Stu- : · dent Body does not want. Now, a · disproportionate number ofU:ttion stude:nts have been committed to what grossly resembles a Correc- . tion.al Minimum Security Study- Release Program. The Admiilistration was in its in- fancy of Orwellianism when we wete Sophomores, but when did th..e Board Of Trustees allow the to:talitarian regime to take full con- I'm sure that, a decade later, Union College is still a fine aca- demic institution. However, the societal and ·life growing ·educa- tional aspects ofUnjon College are : 'l\l.l1 ... FNi~Oi.trGt CAreer -Dave Vandigrifft ~~!:':flit CDC Updates . · · 2/lO;··u~iversity of Denver Publishing Institute information session, alumna Cartie Cu!'Vin, 4PM, CDC . 2/iQ: Mm1in Sands, ·s3, Chairman of Sands Brothers, NYC · Investment Banking and Securities brokerage firm, 7pm. CDC .,. ~~. . Resume Deadliugs. Frida~ 2111 by Spm attbe CDC!!! Mptor~bl~ internships and full time positions Northwestern Life Mutual! Syr-.lcuse ~sales agent posi.tions o•Brieulutd Gerc Enginee-rs, Inc.- ER CE, and ME positions availa\>le. (On-campus interviews in March). 2/14): US,P'eace Corps, lOam~- 2pm, CC Atrium, and 6pm, CDC · 2/lit: ACORN (Assocooi~ttion of Community Organizations for Reform Now), 7pm, CDC 2/lit: AdvertisingfCommuoitations Outreach Table. 11 :30arn- 1:00pm, CC Atrium 2/16: Communications c.-.recrsl'ancl, feattuing alumni in advet'tising (Heath Fradkoff '99),. public relations technical writing 7pm, CDC Z/11: Interviewing Workshop: lntet'national Students, 4pm.CDC 2/22: Museum and fllstoric Preservation Careers, featuring alumna Anne Cassidy, I 2:30pm. CC 203 2/22: Advertising & Public Relations Careers, Diane Perlmtttter, CEO of a topPR film i11 NYC, 4pm,, CDC

Page .8 ·.February 10, 2000 • (!Jo:nt.o:rhi.tnsis OP/~p ... ~ ~ - '\' .... ' . ' .,. o.os & Ot:hrorLafs ·------------ Redirecting Blame On \1onday morning. a professor on campus asked his class. \How \'as your weekend?\ He was intrigued when there were a variety of JllS\\ crs. :\ simple question resulted in a fifty tninute discussion about the scciallife at Union College. What is there to do on the weekends? :\Llny students agreed that to have fun is to drink, and, as such, this past \Dry Weekend\ forced students either to remain asocial on Satur- Lby night or stay in their rooms to drink. A result of the aforementioned pro-drinking philosophy is that two peopk were rushed to Ellis Hospital directly from Upperclass Dining where the Wmter Formal was held. In addition, a third emergency case was brought to Ellis that evening. Of the three, one was a Union stu- dent. one an alunmus. and the third a visiting student from another academic institution. None of the individuals had consumed alcohol at a Greek house that night. The fact that three people were brought to the hospital Saturday is I not insignificant. During the current academic term, no student has needed off-campus medical attention as a result of excessive drinking at . i 1 I fraternity parties. l------=-~-========-------------------------- The administration often blames the Greek system for the excessive DI. s mal c hoi· ces &0 r Cl· ass GI. &t drinking problem on campus. Underage drinking on campus is more of . · . · ~~ . . I! a social issue, than a Greek system issue. People are drinking on their To the editors: ing as a lasting mark of the Class lective product of the entire class, own, regardless of whether or not there is a fraternity party. This is I am writing to express my ex- of 2000, our gift (in its present not the work of the administration nidenccd by the overwhelming number of calls made to UMed on Sat- treme dismay at the choices for the forms) serves only as a way to fund urday night. In fact, UMed received more calls than any other weekend Senior Class Gift, as well as at the what the sclwol already plans to this term, despite the fact that there were no Greek-sponsored parties on process by which those choices do. Essentially, the Senior Class Saturday. Clearly, the Greek system was not to blame in this instance. were determined. gift is not truly a \gift but instead The Inter-Fraternal Council made the decision not to register for parties Without any previous informa- only the frontispiece to an effort on Saturday night due to the Winter Formal, which was sponsored by tion or chance to participate in the to get the Class of 2000 off to an Student Activities. This decision by the IFC was made in order to en- Senior Gift process, members of the early fundraising start, a kind offic- courage people to attend. Class of2000 received a ballot last tional carrot for us to chase. There is a lack of viable social alternatives to fraternity parties on the week to choose the Senior Class Unless the current gift choices weekends and we have now seen that even when a school sponsored Gift. This ballot offered four dis- were simply dedicated to them, the event puts the regular parties on hold for a nigl1t, the same results can mal choices: a new campus map, Senior gift committee seems to be come to pass. new benches outside the Campus partly at fault. There was no at- When the professor asked what alternatives students would like to Center, a bronze seal in the brick- tempt to eacourage the participa- see on campus, the entire ciass of fifty-five fell silent. The student body work of Memorial Chapel, and a tion of the entire class in coming would like to see more options on the weekends than just a couple of scholarship. All of this choices fit up with gift ideas nor in evaluating fraternity parties, but no suggestions are made to Student Activities the criterion which the adrninistra- the ideas and opinions of the and the administration. And when Student Activites attempts to mix up tion set out, that the gift be \some;;- whole class, especially when it is the social life on campus, there is a low attendance rate, and complaints thing the class can afford\ and the members of the class, and not about \Dry Weekend.\ which \the school needs.\ They just the committee, who will bear It is relatively difficult to drink to the point of sickness at most frater- are also all gifts which are not sym- the burden of fmancing this gift. nity parties due to the large volume of people seeking alcohol at the bolic or commemorative in any Givenmyconversationswithother bars. In the event that someone does get sick at a patty, it is more likely sense, but rather finite and quo tid- seniors who are similarly disaf- than not because of the alcohol that they consllmed before they arrived. ian in character; the bench and map fected, the committee's choices for In the same manner, many students who went to the Formal had been will eventually need to be replaced, the Senior Gift - and th.e process drinking beforehand in their rooms. It is apparent that people find other th.e seal is tC> be hid away in the as a whole- seem to be highly mis- ways to access and consume alcohol than at a fraternity. brickwork of the Chapel, and the representative of the class's How do we solve this problem? Administration has been debating scholarship will only be enjoyed wishes. or a tiny group of seniors. It is, af- ter all, our money which will fund this gift, and so it should be our efforts and ideas which create it. I suggest that the \camed' choices which we were given to us be just that, canned, and that the commit- tee should hold an open meeting for the senior class where new ideas can be presented and evalu- ated. The mm·e that the gift comes from us, the more it can truly be our gift. It is audacious for either the administration or the student committee to simply dictate what we will give, and if they actually expect the class to give money for a gift which they dislike, they are sorely mistaken. The goal of the senior gift is not merely to save the College money. Instead, let these- nior class come together and choose the gift according to our own wishes and intent, and let us leave a bold and affecting mark that is truly worthy of our class. the issue for quite some time. Is the answer to slowly deminish the Greek by a Instead of serv- The Senior Gift ought to be a col- ~~?P~~~~s~W~~u~&~,~~~s~~~~~~~p~~U~D~J.=S~h~J.~D~g~=t~h~e-=F~)~a-y~J.-n-g-S~t7.-u-d~e-n-.t~ than the places at which they drink on Union's campus. KLT &MSM Fellow 199() Alumni and Friends, trol? bottoming out into a shite state of • • ~ <' ·, • ..~ •• ' Letter Poli~y&: ~r Letters to the Editor-sho~ltb~,ad,~~~#i()tll9~9l?:~Qp~e and mustbereeeivedbyS~M:tblf~Mtli!aaY~~f()~~:p~~9~~~ Letters must be less ~S(!f;>words aJJ.d:~uldp~~,tq'an · ·that · · .· . ' ~ ... 'y·~~;oU:C<Jlfuaeci:>~i~~4~~;,·.··.::::;~U< :. :,:~?:·, :. ISsue . ooncemsu~~v\... . . .•. · .~;::~ .··~., .... >';'··~r~~,.·c.•._,.:··< ~· s·•··· · . . · . . .. .· : ._ . ·. .., ·· · ··· .. : D~'}:'~·,.~rp/?:~:~i$!·~~:r::; .. :· Finaldecisionsco~eemifig.prihting;AA~Q*i~ 'i:·' ·. sion b~1ong:to llie Eifit~~i~~~~~~;i'tt;~~T: . (thouibreque&ts foranon~<>.l$,P~#~~(; ·.· . : · >f .·~~ by the ¢it~s):~~!)~V¥'q~(~f~gn·4#~~~:~.~~;;~~~~ .. · ;';~·:~~t necessarily, reflect the opiniottoftheEflit<:irl.aKBoaid~:;::.';v;< .·: '·\:;·· • - > '- ·' \· - -: \. ~:.,\• ·,.::_~'1·'·~.;~---. -<~>-.';.~;· . __ ;-<:_~·~_-;.·~ ... ;'·': .:_,:,.·\-:>.:;.>~:· . _;;;' .. : . :; _, .-~: ' ' . . . _.'. '_' ... :. , - '--~~----~ ·,: ·~: · .. ': -:~-~-~·_._;~·:.-:;~:·?-.:·:·:; ' ;:';':·:/_t~{::<:~-~~~;~<-'.:;~~~:-:;::~~/~;:-: .. , Ediooiialsref1yctth~opimio!lof~tt~ajp~~;(),, .. , .....• · .. ·· ... B~~ and of no orte member inpruticwlai.·'~:opiltii~Jit~t-~.C»r cattoons retlect theoP,iujOiJ.s ofthe~t~~$.oi.~isj~t::~d».d~ : ':: ·. ·.: .· !• 1/•': __ .:-- ----~·,·_.: . .-··_--._-·.•:_,.~~~- ~-_,,; _ _,, .-.·-·:_.-·::·:·~:-~,-~_:_-.--_~ ·,-_ -:_t·'-<'\'/' necessarilytheopiniousoftheEditorlalB()a:rd.:!•<::i;.·:.· :· .• • ·.·: • .• •••• > ••• • ·: ••• ', •• :··: ' : • • :~·:·\'.').:.~':i2'~;'::' \':.\ ·. ~. Advert~ieineat~ app~~gj~:!go~~#~4i~J.t$;~4~:Jif>.t-~~§es~ sarily refleqt'tlle.opi.Jliom pfithe~$djf9~aill\(}~d~ ·· . ·· · · .· · · ' . .---- .. - ·' . . ' . ·. -·· -·-- .. -- ·-._.·,· • . • • : • ;, .. _-. • • • ~ >~ , :. • • .- . Conc~Pdtensis is p#ilted'by:Stafii¢1<\I>nnttng, .7S~ Pi~ce Road,CiiftqnPark,NY, 12t)65. .: '·.·. ·. ·/ ... ·. . · · When we were at Union Col- lege, only Freshmen were obligated to reside in campus housing. For the Sophomores who wanted to live on campus and were not in ei- lher• Fraternity or Sorority, the Il3~ Lottery was a \chance\ at actually getting a room on cam- pus. I just read in the Concordiensis that Juniors arebeing FORCED to live on campus. \Let's punish the paying student-customers for the inefficiency and short-sightedness of the Campus Housing Directors.\ Union's tirade against, and sys- tematic elimination of, Greek soci- eties has led to an overabundance ()f dorm-room living that, obvi- ()Usly, the vast majority of the Stu- dent Body does not want. Now, a disproporticmate number ofUnion students have been committed to what grossly resembles a Correc- tional Minimum Security Study- Release Program. The Administration was in its in- fancy of Orwellianism when we were Sophomores, but when did the Board Of Trustees allow the totalitarian regime to take full con- I'm sure that, a decade later, Union College is still a fine aca- demic institution. However, the societal and life growing educa- tional aspects of Union College are lJJ t NION fi\l{ 1: fC:f C.rrt'lr affairs. I'm glad that we had the oppor- tunity to attend Union College be- fore it sucked. -Dave Vandigritit r:.'!>e/Of)l~ll'llt CDC Updates Cnitl7 e • • 2/10: U11ivcrsitv or Denver Puhlishit~g Institute inforrmltion session. alumna CarTic Curvin. 4PM, CDC 2/Ht: Mart,i n Sands, · 83, Chairman of Sands Brothers, NYC Investment Banking und Securities bmkcrage finn, 7prn. CDC Res-ume Deadlines. friday. 2/ll by Spm Itt tlJ<j) CDC!!! Motoroln- intemshij)s and full time p(>Si[ion:; No1·thwcstern IJit'e J\lutual/ Sya·ao::use - sales a~cnt positions O'llricn und Gcre E:nginccrs, Inc. - EE, Ce, and. ME positions available. (On-campus interviews in lVhuch). 2/16: US J•eace Corps, lOam- 2pm, CC Atriun1. and 6pm, CDC 2/16: A<:ORN (Assr>cociatinn of Community Organizations for Reform Now), 7pm. CDC 2/16: Advertising/Communications Outreach To:1hlc. ll :30am- l:Otlpm, CC .Atrium 2/16: Communicntion!l Carccr·s Jl•anel, fcatm·ing alumni tn advertising (Heath FnuJiwff '99),. public; mlations technical \vriling 7pm, CDC 2/17: Interviewing Workshop: lntct·nationa! Students, 4 pm. CDC 2/22: Museum nnd llistoric Preservation Cun~~rs, featuring alumna Anne Cus:mly, I 2:30pm, CC 203 2/22: Advertising&. Public Relations Careers. Diane Perlmutter. CEO of a top !>R firm in NYC, 4pm, CDC ' ')

i!ei.l .. t..LhrJjl,l\)} ' UJ:: .c i ( F~Ul:{i~,;i • (, 1~f. \ OI.mtt~rmensi111 • February 10, 2000 · Page 9 Civic Pride in Honoring Prominent Union Alumnus, William H._ Seward My name is Duncan Campbell Cra:ry. I write to you on the :3Qbject oOfWilliam H. Seward, a prQ:rnineot Union ahl:t1l,llus whose role in our . -cornmunity and in our natio:n seems to have been all but fo:rgot• 1en: here at Union. In this ~cle l will argue why a Seward memQrial shoul<i have been on the baUot for senior gift ideas this year and wh.y it sho\lldbe on the ballot ne:xt yea.:r. I wilt expJain t1Ie reasons for why it was not on the ballot this year a11d why as of now it will not be on the ballotin the years to come. I wlll also provide a free short term solu- tion ta honor this national hero imrnecliately. First, I provide a brief history of the man: In 1801 WillilliilH Seward was horn in the village of Florida, Orange County NY. At theageof fifteen Seward attended Uni()n Colle2e. He graduated from Union in 1820. From 1839-1843Seward took up residence in Alban;y while serving as governor to New York State_ He ran against Lincoln for republican presidential nomination and was favored to win here in Schenectady where citizens viewed Seward as a local hero. Seward con- tinued his political career to become secreiary of the state during both. the Lincoln and Jackson admini:s\ tratio-ns. During his office as sec- retary of the state, Seward estab- .lishecl an un-compromising anti slave1y policy. Also while in o.f,.. fice, he purchased what is now known as the state of Alaska from Russ:i~ The, p~q::hase w~s. ri(}:i- cule,il a,s, \S.~ward's Folly\ llntjl it proved. to be an abundant weaLth. of natural resources elevating o1.1r nation's status to that of economic powerhouse. Ea:rlier in the term I approached one of the members of the seni()r gift giving committee and pre- sented the i.Qea of using senior gift money to create a memorial for Seward Qn a v!lcant lot on Seward Place. This:m:emberofthe colilmit- tee told me tb.at the id~a ofturning a small plot<>flandon Seward Place into a park was alreadybe~g con- sidered as one option on the bat- lot. This park would be an excel- lent site to .create a memorial to nation's economy. Unfortunately. I was later in- formed by the committee that the park wouldno longer appear on the ballot. From then on I was count- ing on the write-in option which normally appears on the ballot to voicemy opinion and those of well over fi.fty students presently sup- porting the idea. Two members on the senior gi:ft comniittee informed to retain the choice in senior gift giving-·. it~s your money you should decide. I also urge you fo remember Seward should you get your way. In the meantime I have an immediate solution to still honor Seward without spending any money at aU. Rename the trolley, \Seward's Trolley.\ Seward's Trol~ ley was an actual submission to the name thetr()lley contest. For some absurd rea- , . .~'_;yi~i'riiA~~~r~l wiJul~ 'h~.: ·' Seward, esp.e- cially because the street itself was named in honor of :the man. My idea was to contact Schenectady Mayor· Al Jurzynczki and other local fig- ures to see if an agree m.e n·t i!: : · · ''ift:imii:Sf}rsf;·hecause, niXt. ·~~~;:.c ... ~:~!'4it~~~1! · S'tf)!l/s, ; ~r;m~:ltiYtj}d~rl:tlte;eo#cge would ~truly sonthe nam- ing commit- tee opted for the trite and immature name \Nott- a-bus.\ I can safely say I have en- countered no one who ::·~::~~ii~~f;t~ : c:' ,,, < 'ifiP.~¥!iorth.~~c~n.ily to lmpr()ve .. :>!~~~: iiii~.gii~;~:~el~tion&- h~re .in. Schenectady. ,, ,._ ;::r . .._.c.-,_:;:·.·. ,.·,-:l_- :': :~. . .' could be Ieached whereby these- nior class .of 2000 and the city of Schenectady (represented by inde- pendent donors, Schenectady 2000, andMetroplex) could com- bine contribtttionsto the memorial. The erection of such a memorial would be fitting atthis point in time: first, because next year marks the 200th anniversary of Seward's birthday; s.econd,. because a joint effort such as this between the city and the coEkge would truly reflect the effort put forth. recently to im- prove town and gown relations here in Schenectady. Such a me- morial would signify what Union and.1h~ city ~an ac~omplisl:). to- geth!=Jr; it wou~d also stanq fQr OIJI efforts to improve both racial in- equalities{national.and local) a:rid to relieve ·economic stress in our community since Seward himself made enormous strides to end ra- cial. injustice and improve our me that Roger Hull has decided there will be no choice given to the seniors as to what there senior gift will be from next year on. In the future, Hull proclaims, the gift will be a student scholarship. He would only allow three other choices to appear on the ballot this year if they were projects the school already intended to accomplish. His reason for this decision, and I quote my informants, is that ••he does not want the campus to look like a cou.ntry club \-which amuses me since Union just re- cently acquired several golf carts to carry around visiting alumni. I would lil<.e to campaign against Rogt;r ,Hull on .this i&su,e .. a,qt for . now, we must think ofSeward. Ide- ally the seniors would contribute to the memorial but perhaps the school could be persuaded to give a donation instead. I urge next year's seniors to start rallying now likes this name nor anyone who fmds it the least bit amusing. I ask, don't you think theNott Memorial (which is the most impressive memorial to one man I have ever beheld), a handsome tombstone in the Union College plot in Vale Park, two streets named for him, and several books written on him, are enough memorials to our fourth college president who moved our campus to its current location and who in- vented some nice stoves. His ac- complishments are important to us but it is time to give others the rec- ognition they deserve. I believe the far superior name, Sew<U\d's Trol- ley which is both .amusing and ap- pr<?priate was passed over .because the committe~, was grossly un- aware of Seward's relation to Union. Renaming the trolley, Seward's Trolley would be one step toward honoring this great man and IT WOULD COST NOTIIINq except the pride of one silly student who has already won a prize for embarrassing us all with Nott-a-bus. Seward's TroHey is a clever pun on Seward's Folly be- cause with 50 below wind chill fac- tors here in the Mohawk Valley, one might even say it gets as cold as Alaska around here. What's also clever about the name is that as a student, Seward himself once rode horse drawn trolleys to get around Schenectady. Wouldn't it beniceforRogerHull, the man who has dubbed himself '\history's thread,\ to name his overpriced bus/trolley in honor of one of our historical alumni-just think of how impr.essed perspective fami- lies would. be to learn that Chester A. Arthur, William H.Seward, Jimmy Carter, etc. were all students here at Union! Renaming the trolley is on~y a short term solution because it does not benefit the citizens of Schenectady. A permanent memo- rial to one of Schenectady's heroes would help the pmcess of improv- ing civic pride and general morale in this city. We must help teach people of Schenectady's proud history so that people can find some inspiration here. If Seward once lived in Schenectady and went on to become a national hero then maybe we can too. A quiet park with a memorial to one of our nation's great heroes would be the perfect place to sit a fmd inspira- tion. And then of course you could bop on Seward's Trolley as .it passed by and catch a ride down- town. DuncanCampbell Crary Clas:s of 2001) Answering the Calls of the· ''Ivy'' <nnnc.or .hi .ens is W:hat can I say to criticism? Pe<Jple have the right to critici2e me since my articles are indeed publJc property. But, I qo take is- sue in a. number .ofpoints. Criti- cism is fme, but what does lp gGtitl to pr()ve by claiming my articles are just ••mindless babble,\ a;nd I am just making an \obnoxiou.x rant?~' All tllat proves to me is that s.he thinks I am an idiot. Is this really a pers()nal badgering, or is it a bad- ger on my articles? I tend to view itas the same because afte:r all, it is MY feelings and perceptions thtt I am writing about. Furthermore, I am not justified in saying that what I feel is an \Asian thing\because 1 atn Korean. Koreans, Chinese, Japanese, and other AsiGtns hav-e different experiences, different cul- tll:res, and different heritag-es. What right do I have saying that all Asians feel this way? We :are Asian, but we are differentbecal!se we come from different countries 'with different situations and his- tories. What I may }>.e going thr()agh is different from what site goe~ through. Race is simply :n.ot an issue when it comes to writing this article. Maybe I made a mis,. take by choosing \Asian PerSl!a- sion'' as the title of my article. lf you had simply asked me to cha:n.ge it, I might have considered. It's as simple as that. Would yon leave me alone if I did indeecl di> that? Probably so. Which brings me to anotherpoint. What has race got to do with anything? 1 do not speak for tbewhole \Asian\ com- munity. Let me be more specific. I. do not speak for the whole \Ko- rean\ community. I speak for my- self. You can bash and hate \Asian Persuasion\ all you want. But do · not criticiz:eand bash me in the pro- cess. AlH got from your criticism was that you are not particularly , found of rne .. Let us at least be civil. We live in the same house. All you : have to do is drop by my room, tell me your problem :with the article, and before you know it construe- . tive criticism has fixed the problem. I hate to>eonfrontpeople generally, · but I feel compelled to say that 1 take issue with your criticisms. The title given to your article in the Concordiensis was indeed fitting. It was merely just a bash on Asian Persuasion. If Asian Persuasion makes you feel ashamed, then you are saying that you are ashamed of me for being an Asian. Then tell me, how as an \Asian\ should I act? And besides, you are Chi- nese, and I am Korean. We are dif- ferent. If you feel compelleq, t~ write .another opinion, youar~,~el- . come to. I will respop~ as ~wiftly and concisely as a sword cutting a blade ofgr.~,ss.. The l;lall is in now in your,coutt. Playball!! And lets leave Cornell girl outofthis. -PhilipCbo (author ()(Asian Persuasion) No one expects to be assaulted, and most people are not prepared to deal with sexual assault or abuse. We ean help. Services are confidential. If you need help, call the Safe Space beeper: 1-800-283-2255 Pin: 11349 The Student Newspaper of Union College .Since 18 77 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper http:/ /concordy .union.edn :Brooke M. Barylick- David C. Brooks, Jr. EDITORS-IN-CHIEF Jessica Zuehlke NEWS EDITOR Katrina 'Jentor OPINIONS EDITOR Brian Terlinsky Rachel B11kowski SPORTS EDITORS Lori Gree11e Kimberl:y :Robback A&EED!TORS KaelynS~uth PROMOTIONAL MANAGER Sloan Miller Aaron Seliger PHOTO EDifORS Jaime Cllamdler EXECUTTVEEDITOR Jason Putorti WEB MASTER Eugene Schultz FEATURES EDITOR Sloan Miller SCIENCE & TECH EDITOR Neil Routman WORLD NEWS EDITOR Michael S. McGuire COPY EDITOR Danielle Devine Amanda JackSon ADVERTISEMENT COORDINATORS Erika Mancini EDITORIAL CARTOONIST Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR PHOTOG!l.APHERS: Calvert Crary, Elizabeth Daigle, Mcgann Dene.frio~ Katie Hais, Katie James~ Dave Meguerdichian. STAFF: Matt Aronowitz, Steve Ayers, Jessiea Brearton, Beth Brogan, Gina Calllpaaella, Michaela Cautela, Dan Centi, Meridith Chace, Philip Cho, Jim DeWan, Kristitta Dorne, Mary Felton, Frank Filidotto, Frank Flaherty, Stepllen Flaherty, Peter Flynn, Hannah Gaw, Matt Ge11dron, David Gruller, Deric Harrington, Brian Kern, Cory Kiefer, Dan Kirsh, Allyson K41hlmann, Alexandra Lohs~ Jess Millet, Stephen Nemeth, F11him Noor, Ste\Ve Schuler, Mark Shemel, Jeff Silver., Jessisca Stephens, Lee Steven~J, Sanskriti Thakur, Charles Tutbill, Vinny Voleti, Kristen Zadouria11.

1. I( I I j i ' ' OP/ED C!L.oucnrirttusi~ ; February '10, 2000 · Page 9 -- Civic Pride in Honoring Prominent Union Alumnus, William H .. Seward My Rame is DuncaR Carnpbel:l Crary. I write to youon the subject ofW iHiam H. Seward, a prominent Union alunmus whose role in our community and in our nat~on seems ·to have been all but forgot- ten here at Union. In this article I wHl argue why a Seward memorial should have been on the ballot for senior gift ideas this year and why it should be ontheballotnext year. I wiU explain the reasons for why it was Rot on the ballot this year and why as of ROW it will not be on the ballot in the years to come. I will also provide a free short term solu- tion to honor this national hero immediately. First, I provide a brief history of the man: In 1801 WilHam H. Seward was born in the village of Florida, Orange County NY. At the age of fifteen Seward attended Union College. He graduated from Union in 1820. From 1839-1843 Seward took up residence in Albany while serving as governor to New York State. He ran against Lincoln for repub lie an presidential nomination and was favored to win here in Schenectady where citizens viewed Seward as a local hero. Seward con- tinued his political career to become secretary of the state during both the Lincoln and Jackson adminis- trations. During his office as sec- retary of the state, Seward estab- lished an un-compromising anti slavery policy. Also while in of- fice, he purchased what is now known as the state of Alaska from Russia. The purchase was ridi- culed as \Seward's Folly\ until it proved to be an abundant wealth of natural resources elevating our nation's status to that of economic powerhouse. Earlier in the term I approached one of the members of the senior gift giving cornn1ittee and pre- sented the idea of using senior gift money to create a memorial for Seward on a vacant lot on Seward Place. This member of the commit- tee told me th.at the idea of turning a small plot oflandon Seward Place into a park was a1beady being con- sidered as o11e option on the bal- lot. This park would be an excel- lent site to cTeate a memorial to Seward, espe- nation's economy. Unfortunately, I was later i:n- formed by the committee that the park would no longer appear on the ballot. From then on I was count- ing; on the write-in option which nermally appears on the ballot to voice my opinion and those of well o-ver fifty students presently sup- porting the idea. Two members on the senior gift committee informed to retain the choice in senior gift giving-it's your money you sho-uld decide. I also wge you to re1nember Seward should you get your way. In the meantime I have an immediate solution to still honor Seward witheut spending any momey at aH. Rename the troHey, \Seward's Trolley.\ Seward's Trol- ley was an actual submission to the name the trolley contest. For some absurd rea- cially because the street itself was named in honor of the man. My idea was to contact Schenectady Mayor Al Jurzynczki and other local fig- ures to see if an uThe erection of such a memorial would be fitting at this point in time: first, because next year marks .the 200th anniversary ofSeward 's birthday; second, because a}oint effort such as son the nam- ing commit- tee opted for the trite and immature name \Not1- a-bus.\ I can safely say I have en- countered no one who . this between the city and the college would truly reflect the effort put forth recently to improve . town and gown relations here in Schenectady.\. agreement could be reached whereby the se- nior class of 2000 and the city of Schenectady (represented by inde- pendent donors, Schenectady 2000, and Metroplex) could com- bine contributions to the memorial. The erection of such a memorial would be fitting at this point in time: first, because next year marks the 200th anniversary of Seward's birthday; second, because a joint effort such as this between the city and the college would truly reflect the effort put forth recently to im- prove town and gown relations here in Schenectady. Such a me- morial would signify what Union and the city can accomplish to- gether; it would also stand for our efforts to improve both racial in- equalities (national and local) and to relieve ec()nomic stress in our community since Seward himself made enorm()us strides to end ra- cial injustice and improve our me that Roger Hull has decided there will be no choice given to the serniors as to what there senior gift will be from next year on. In the future, Hull proclaims, the gift will be a student scholarship. He w01uld only allow three other choices to appear on the ballot this year if they were projects the school alr·eady intended to accomplish. His reason for this decision, and I qu()te my informants, is that \he does not want the campus to look like a country club \-which amuses me since Union just re- cently acquired several golf carts to carry around visiting alumni. I would like to campaign against R()ger Hull on this issue. But for now, wemustthinkofSeward. Ide- ally the seniors would contribute to the memorial but perhaps the school could be persuaded to give a donation instead. I urge next year's seniors to start rallying now likes this name nor anyone who finds it the least bit amusing. I ask, don't you think the Nott Memorial (which is the most impressive memorial to one man I have ever beheld), a handsome tombstone in the Union Co liege plot in Vale Park, two streets named for him, and several b()oks written on him, are enough memorials to our fourth college president who moved our campus to its current location and who in- vented some nice stoves. His ac- complishments are important to us but it is time to give others the rec- ognition they deserve. I believe the far superior name, Seward's T ro 1- ley which is both amusing and ap- plopriate was passed over because the committee was grossly un- aw.are of Seward's relation to Un.ion. Renaming the trolley, Seward's Trolley would be one step toward honoring this great man and IT WOULD COST NOTHING except the pride of one silly student who has already won a prize for embarrassing us all with Nott-a-bus. Seward's Trolley is a clever pun on Seward's Folly be- cause with 50 below wind chill fac- tors here in the Mohawk Valley, one might even say it gets as cold as Alaska around here. What's also clever about the name is that as a student, Seward himself once rode horse drawn trolleys to get around ScheiJectady. Wouldn't it be nice for Roger Hull, the man who has dubbed himself \history's thread,\ to name his overpriced bus/h·olley in honor of one of our historical alurnni-just think of how impressed perspective fami- lies would be to learn that Chester A. Arthur, William H.Seward Jirnnl) Carter, etc. were all students here at Union! Renaming the trolley is only a short term S()]ution because it does not benefit the citizens of Schenectady_ A permanentmemo- rial to one of Schenectady's heroes would help the process of improv- ing civic pride and general morale in this city. We must help teach people of Schenectady's proud history so t bat people can find some inspiration here. If Seward once lived in Schenectady and went on to become a national hero then maybe we can too. A quiet park with a memorial to one of our nation's great heroes would be the perfect place to sit a find inspira- tion_ And then of course you could hop on Seward's Trolley as it passed by and catch a ride down- town. Dmtcan CampbeUCrary Class ()f 2000 Answering the Calls of the ''Ivy'' dt.on.c.nr bi.:ensi s What can I say to criticism'? People have the right to criticize me since my articles are indeed public property. But, I do take is- sue in a number of points. Criti- cism is fine, but what does Ip gain to prove by claiming my articles are just \mindless babble,\ and I am just making an \obnoxioux rant'?\ All that proves to me is that she thinks I am an idiot. Is this really a personal badgering, or is it a bad- ger on my articles'? I tend to view it as the same because after all, it is MY feelings and perceptions that I am writing about. Furthermore, I am not justified in saying that what I feel is an \Asian thing\ because I am Korean. Koreans, Chinese, Japanese, and other Asians have different experiences, different cul- tures, and different heritages. What right do I have saying that all Asians feel this way? We are Asian, but we are different because we come from different countries with different situations and his- tories. What I may be going through is different from what she goes through. Race is simply not an issue when it comes to writing; this article. Maybe I made a mis- take by choosing \Asian Persua- sion\ as the title of my article. If you had simply asked me t() change it, I might have considered_ It's as simple as that. Would you leave me alone if I did indeed do that? Probably so. Which brings me to another point. What has race got to do with anything? I do not speak forthewhole \Asian\ com- munity. Let me be more specific. I do not speak for the whole \Ko- rean\ community. I speak for my- self. You can bash and hate \Asian Persuasion\ all you want. But do not criticize and bash me in the pro- cess. All I g()t from your criticism was that you are not particularly found of me. Let us at least be civil. We live in th.e same house. All you have to do is drop by my room, tell me your pmblem with the article, and before you know it construc- tivecriticismhasf1Xedtheproblem. I hate to confront people generally, but I feel compelled to say that I take issue with your criticisms. The title given to your article in the Concordiensis was indeed fitting. It was merely just a bash on Asian Persuasion. If AsiaR Persuasion makes you feel ashamed, then you are saying that you are ashamed of me for being an Asian. Then tell me, how as an \Asian\ should I act? And besides, you are Chi- nese, and I am Korean. We are dif- ferent. If you feel compelle4, tQ write another opinion, you are wel- come to. I will respond as swiftly and concisely as a sword cutting a blade of grass. The ball is in now i11:. your court. Play ball! ! And lets leave Cornell girl out of this. -PhilipCho (author of Asian PersutJsion) No one expects to be assaulted, and most people are not prepared to deal with sexual assault or abuse. We can help .. Services are confidential. If you need help, call the Safe Space beeper: 1-800-283-2255 Pin: 11349 The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper http://concordy.union.edu Brooke M. Barylick- David C. Rr()cks, Jr. EDITORS-IN-CHIEF Jessica Zuehlke NEWS EDITOR IUtrina Tentor OJ>/NIONS EDITOR til'ian Terlinsky R::achel Bukowski SPORTS EDITORS Lllri Greene Kimberly Rollback A &£EDITORS Kaelyn South PllOMOT!ONAL MANAGER Sloan Miller · Aaron Seliger PHOTO EDITORS J:~ime Chandler EXECUTIVE EDITOR Jason Putorti WEBMASTER Eugene Sc hllltz FEATURES EDITOR Sloan Miller SCIENCE & TECH EDITOR Neil Ro11tmllll WORLD NEW.S EDITOR Michael S. McGuire COPY EDITOR Danielle De~ine Amanda J=tckson ADVERTISEMENT COOR.DJNA TORS Erika Manci11i EDITORIAL CARTOONISf Scott Sculli()D FACULTY ADVISOR P JIOTOGRAPHERS: Calvert Crary, Elizabetll Dlligle, Megann l>enefrio Katie Hais, Katie James, Dave Meguerdichian. STAFF: M.att Aronowitz, Ste\le Ayers, Jessica Br4!arton, Beth Brogan Gina Campanella, Michaela Cautela, Dan Centi, Meridith Chare, Philip Cho, Jim DeWan, Kristina Dorne, Mary Felton, hank Filic.iott(), Frank Flaherty, Stephen Fllllherty, Peter Flynn, Hannall Gaw. Matt Gendron David Gruner, Deric Harrina:ton, Brian Kern, Cory Kiefer, Dan Kirsh Allyson Kohlmann, Alexandra L()hse, Jess Miller, Stephen Nemetll, Fahim Noor, Steve Schuler, Mark Shemel, Jeff Silver, J essisca Stepl1ens, Lee Stevens, Sanskriti Thakur, Charles Tutltill, Vinny Voleti, Kriste1 'Zadourian.

by MichaelS. McGuire Copy Editor Despite his claims to the con- trary, Texas Governor George W. Bush has changed his campaign strategy in lightofhis overwhelm- ing d< feat in New Hampshire and the loss of his lead in South Caro- lina, both to Arizona Senator John McCain. Previcusly Bush had been running a campaign filled with photo-ops and big-name endorse- ments, a campaign devoid of issues and stands. He lost the New Hamp- shire primary because voters pre- ferred McCain's honesty and ac- cessibility. Now that McCain has gained credibility, Bush has to not only acknowledge the legitimacy of his candidacy, but is in a position where he must defeat McCain in South Carolina or risk losing all of the momentum going into the March 7 primaries. If McCain wins the state, he will almost certainly win his home state, leaving Michi- gan as the only chance for Bush to defeat him head to head. And now we fmd that Bush's new strategy is to strike out against McCain's two most solid and popular qualities: his status as a war hero and his desire to over- haul the campaign finance system. Last Thursday, Governor Bush appeared. in Sumter, SC with l Tho- mas Burch, Jr., the chainnano0fthe National Vietrlam and GulfWn Vet- t<rans Committee. The New York Times reported thatBurch declared McCain weak on vett>rans issues, saying \he came home, forgot us.\ In response to this statement, which flies in the face of John McCain's record in the Senate, five senators wrote to the Texas; Gov- ernor. The letter, signed by Max Cleland(D-GA), Hob Keney {D- NE),JohnKeny(D-MA), Charle~ Robb (0-VA)andChuckHagel(R- NE), claimed, \These alle~ations are absolutely false. Indeecl, Mr, Burch was a leading critic ofPresi- dent Reagan's and your father's policie~ on POW/MIA issues, and he vehemently opposed a llistoric effort led by the Senate Sel~ct Com- mittee <!ln POW/MIA Affairs car- ried out on a bipartisan basis. which resulted in the declassification of millions of documents and tile iden- tification and return to the United States of the remains ofhu.ndreds of American servicemen wi:Io were missing in action.\ The letter con- tinued by saying, \We liope you willpuhlicly disassociate yourself from these efforts, and apologize to Senator McCain.\ ~enator McCain responded to the letter by saying, \Their friendship is all the honor I need in my life, aad more than compensates for the tempo- rary irritation of baseless attacks by apparently desperate political campaigns.\ Bush's questioning of Mr. McCain's record on veteran's affairs will only work against him, and it is impossible to gauge how much damage criticism of a war hero who spent five and a half yeats in a prison camp during the Vietnam war will db. In a similar sign of a campaign ill-equipped to deal with a debate on real issues, Governor Bush is attacking McCain for allowing campaign contributors to come before the Senate Commerce Com- mittee, which he chairs. Bush also criticized McCain for accepting conttibuti()ns from the same lob- byists an<l organizations that he complains have corrupted pcrlitics. Senator McCain has alreadystated that no member ofCong:ress may claim not to have been influenced by the corrupt .system, himself in- cluded, but that he wants th:ings to change. Bush calls McCain a hypocrite for accepting the dona· tions, yet it would be impossible for the senator to get elected un- less he raised money to compete with Governor Bush. Considering how much money the governor has raised, we are left to wonder just who he would represent as presi- dent. Back by popular tkmand, tht: Coucordh'll\)\· Personal Section'' ill be katuring YUl'R i)crsonal ads. Submitting is /ree.just em ad: t•oncord~'(a vu.union.edu · Happy Valentine's Day to all rnyganstab' s· Emily~ Melissa, Katrina, and Stefania. love,. Alicia . Broombastic, Awesome game last week!!! Let's keep our winning streak · . going and do it again this Thursday! l! -Twins Ben, ouare TOO HUGE!'!!! Mike inch, is. one's for you. SWF seeking date for Friday February 11. Please call x6155 and leave a message for Little Kae, You are missed terribly! Have fun and be happy! Love, .Brooke . Roomie, What should we wear next week? . -Your roomie My deare&t 543 gitlies- . I cant tell you how much· I • miss all of you. Spain would be a hundr:ed times. more fun with you here. I love you muchoJ lysee EQW, Is Hawaii boy available for ·Friday? -BMB To my Girls, --------------------------~------~--11Brooke. She will put you in Diplomacy Deserves Recog .. nition contactwiththefemale,ifyou Sign me up for an. appoint- ment at tbe HMS for the weekend, Dear Administrators, Union Col- lege History Buffs, and Potential Senior Class Gift Donors, DONOTLErYOURMONEYGO TO A MEANINGLESS SENIOR GIFT!!! It's time that the graduat- ing class dona ted a gift with last- ing significance that highlighted Union's contributions to Schenectady, the state of New York, and the United States of America. Neither a Minerva seal nor a new smokers' bench nor a plexi-glassed map nor disposable campus directories measure the value of possibility that an educa- tion at this find liberal arts college gives its graduates. Union has had graduates who have gone on to succeed in many different arenas- Olympic ski-jump- ing, financial investments, even the United States presidency. Union prides itself on its history and con- siders its graduates its \link to his- tory.\ Unbeknownst to many Union students, a motivated, \in- tellectual adventurous, cheerful, and convivial\ young man named William H. Seward graduated in 1820. Seward was born in 1801 in Florida, NY, a small town in Orange County. After serving as gover- nor ofNew York from 1839-1842, as a U.S. Senator who was vehe- mently anti-slavery, he became Secretary of State under President Abraham Lincoln and continued to serve after Lincoln's assassination (during which he was wounded) under Andrew Johnson. The Secretary of State serves in the President's cabinet as an advi- sor on international diplomatic af- fairs. As today's technological developments bring the world's nations closer together, the role of the Secretary of State becomes in- creasingly important. The positive relationships that Madeleine Albright currently maintains rely greatly on the diplomatic interac- tions ofthepast. SecretaryofState Seward recognized the significance that diplomacy had on the destiny of America. Instead of a,cquiring land for the sake ofterritoty, Seward realized the potential benefits of conti11ental expansion for this young nation. On July '14, 1868, Seward successfully fulfilled his wishes for America wbe:tl' he coor- dinated the purchase of the larg- est state, Alaska, from :R.ussia for the smallsumof$7.2 million. Most of us have bene.fited from the rich and vital resources sup- plied by Alaska, just as most of us have benefited from the concerted effort that reconstructed the Seward place neighborhood. The president of this college, Roger Hull has teamed up with Schenectady's politicians and resi- dents to revive dilapidated neigh- borhoods and encourage patron- age of local area businesses. Al- though I am not one who fully sup- ports the philosophies of the Union-Schenectady Initiative, I believe in the goals it attempts to achieve. The Union-Bchenectady Initiative does not affect global re- lations, but it does show the value and importance of diplomacy-in- action on a daily basis. Union stu- dents have been criticized for not participating in the Schenectady community; the resi- dents ofSchenectady are consid- ered \Doids\ by Union students. This is not a positive relationship. The work of the U-S Initiative at- tempts to bridge the gap between these two groups to develop a pro- active,. long-lasting foundation that will strengthen the connnunity and benefit both the college and the city. This is a commendable effort, and .the changes since my first year in 1996 have been posi- tive and memorable. What better way to commemo- rate the beginning of this intense relationship between Union Col- lege and Schenectady than with a memorial to a Union graduate who promoted diplomatic interactions? A statue of William H. Seward, funded in part by the Class of2000 AND the Schenectady community would celebrate the combining of efforts to enhance the vibrancy of Schenectady and Union College. I am very interested, as are many other students, in pursuing this memorial as a meaningful, histori- cal senior dass gift. This is an opportunity for us to recognize both the historical perspective of Union and Schenectady, and a far- sighted initiative with positive re- wards for the entire community. I urge you to seriously consider this suggestion so that a productive, collective presentation of this idea can be tnade to the administration. Seward forever, Phoebe Burr meet the criteria. Eugene, W:e missed you on Tuesday night. Hope that you will join ·us next week .. -EIC To my physics partner, I think that I am getting fired. I think that I · should resign. -RMB To Everyone~ Make sure you wish Jess a HAPPY BIRTHDAY on February 15. Love, Brooke 1051, The tricky bastard outwitted us, but we caught the jackass anyways. Hopefully, Wstheend. ~DB HElla all of our Fiji boys, We wanted to send you a little spanish shout out. We are having a blast but we miss you tons. love, Dina and Elyse ps. You better watch out this spring because we are in intensive pong train- ing! P~mmy, Missed you this weekend! Let's hang out soon! -BMB love, Ballerina Erin, I know that you will ki(:k ass at States. Make me proud! You'regoingto Atlanta! lov:e,b To the 1051 Mouse, Keep ap the good work. You outsmarted two engi- neers. Enjoy your peanut butter. -BMB Aaron, If anyone can read 20 books .and write 50 pages in · 2 weeks, it's you! -Mike To Women's Swimming and Diving, Great meet on Saturday! Can't wait until States! Love, ·Rachel H- The ice is slippery. Watch out! -KT Peter, Stop banging on my window late at night. It is not appre- · ciated. [NEED my beauty · · sleep. -Sweetheart Send us your Person41 Adsl They are fREE and FUNI We want your inputl · .s ta VI e1 S( IS T is tl (1 T p p iJ \ tl 0 0 y rl b v a a

--~:; ['· ' Science' & TetCbnology Cllnttcm:hi~nsis • February 10, 2000 • Page 11 Science & Technology Space Travel o:fthe Future ----~--~--~--~~~-- by Sloan Miller Science and Technology Editor The Advanced SpaceTranspor'-' tation Program if5 experimenting with technologies that will eventuallytransfonn. the world of science fiction into fact The X-33 is the flagsh_ip Gf NASA's Space Tra11sportationPr()gram. The X-33 is a one half scC~le prototype of the Reusable L-aunch Vehicle (RL V}nickruuned 1he 'VentureStar.' The ultimate g()al of this program is to lower the cost of propelling a pollnd of payload into space from$10,000 to $1,000 within 10 years .. Additional long range goals of the program are to reduce the cost of inter-orbital tri:\nsfer by another order of magnitu-de within fifteen years. There is also a hope to reduce the time needed to travel between planets fuy a factor of two within fifteen years, and eventu- ally an order of rnagniwde within a quarter of a century .. Excluding cost efficiency and the hope of interplanetary travel, this program hopes tomaximizethe possibility of huma,n space transportation. This technology will enable us to explore further into our galaxy. Additionally, thi~space vehicle will help in space e-xploration and help develop commercial ventures that will lead to technologi~al breakthrou~hs. The :x:-3 3 prototype is being built with thcr cooperation of NASAandLockheedMartin.Skunk Works,ofPalmdale, california ... This smaller scale model will be used to gather data and do preliminary analysis for the future production oftheRLV. The lightweight body of the X-33 is deigned to maximize lift. The craft wiU also utilizes two •'linear aerospike:\ rocket eng:ines and a metallic thermal protection sys tern. The unpiloted test · launches of the X-33 will be from Edwards Air Force Base in California. The craft will be launched vertically, similar to presently used space shuttles. Initial estimates sta,te that the craft This is a computerr~ndition of X-33. will achieve speeds faster than Mach 13. (Mach speed is the speed of sound.) The construction of the X-33 is scheduled to be finished in the spring of 2000 and the first of fifteen testfligb.ts are registered to take place in the summer of Hypertext Free Speech by Steve Ayers Staff Writer Last Friday~ the prospect that a San Francisco court could ban hyperlinking to web sites carrying a program that allows users t(). decode OVDs on their personal computers prompted nationwide protest. In a previous column on the program, known as deCSB,. I dismissed the possibility that hyperlinks could ever be banned because they were obvious.ly free speech. However, this recent development prompts a re-evaluation of the concept of free speech in the context of the Internet. Because of the novelty of the Internet as a communication medium, issues that have been settled long ago in the real world can be reevdua ted in a new context.. Democracy depends on open criticism and the free flow of ideas, and the freedom of speech is protected within the first Amendment. But in theory, practical limitations could necessitate t:h~e limiting of free speech on the Internet (in much the same way that limited broadcasting space necessitates limiting use of the medium of radio). In practice, however, the Internet actually tends to promote free speech, making it harder for governments to take any kind of action which limits speech, no matter how offensive. the Internet spans many countries, making jurisdiction difficult to determine. In the case of th..e lawsuit against DVD hackers, many of the site owners beiag sued live in countries where there actions may not be illegal. ln additiQn to this, many of the institutions that use the Internet are heavily based on information:, making it easy to relocate. This is illustrated by the surge of \mirror sites\ that have arisen since the start of the recent case. An Internet business can change jurisdictions overnight, making them difficult to track down .. However, even if the practical limitations of the medium itself do not provide as with :a reasQn to limit free speech, the consequences of information in the context of computers cEJuld prompt us to limit free speech. In the co.ntext of computers, information becomes more than mere words on paper. Words, assembled into lists of instructions, executed by a computer become actions with teal consequences. Only· a rough equivalent of this exists in our physical world and these are nothing like viruses or email bombs. Clearly 1here is a legiEimate interest in limiting this form of information. Somewhere in between these forms of information lie other fontiS of action-producing information that computers have given us. Hyperlinks pr()bably lie closer to the speech side of this continuum than the action side. they are an automated way for users to access web pages, without having to copy a web address from a document into their browser's address bar. Take away the hyperlink and the address remains, giving access to the same information, only at the expense of the user's convenience. Because it is so close to pure textual speech, it is both inconsistent with constitutional principles and impractical to ban the hyperlink. The defendan1s in this case have recognized this property, and ate using it to their advantage. Following the injunction, 2600 Magazine replaced its list of links to sites hosting the deCSS program with a simple list of addresses. It has yet to be determined whether this too will be banned. Bllt since Internet search engines allow users to locate sites by topic, the listing of site names may be enough to allow users to locate sites .. Until now, communication media could be placed into the categories of broadcast media, such as radio, .print media, such as newspapers, or common carriers, such as telephone networks. However, the Internet encom- passes many different individual fonns of media, making it complex and difficult to regulate. It is only necessary to write a software program to come up with an entirely n~w media form. In the future, the emergence of these new media fonns may give rise to a single, universal form, which will inevitably pose many legal challenges. Hopefully, this will also lead to a gtadt1al convergence of consistent legal regulations .. 2000 over the western United' States. The X-33 .program wilJ attempt to demonstrate ·a two-day turnaround period between flights. Another space vehicle, the www.nasa.gov X-34, is also a reusable, suborbital, air-launched vehicle that will fl:y at speeds approaching Mach eight.. This smaller vehicle will hopefully bridge the gap between subsonic flight and the higher performance RL V and X-33 .. Tests of the X-34 will also begin early ,· in 2000 .. This smaller craft will be launched from a missil<l sight in New Mexico .. Additional launches of the X-34 will be co11ducted in Florida to test the effectiveness of the subsonic landings and the thermal protection s:ystem in hazard<ms weather. The X-33 andX-34programs are c;lesigned to pave the way to the <:ommercial development ofRL V. The possibilities of the \V entur:eStar\ Reusabl<e Launch Vehicle a~e almost limitless. It will create enormous opportunities for space ~vel while providing economic relief to taxpayers and independent corporations .. NASA is l!elping to develop the RL V, b11t tl:!ey will not h\l.Ye direct control over the finished vehicle. Similar to other organizations, :NASA will evenrually have to rent the RL V for space 1ransport. The X-33, X-34 andthe RL V pro- grams are on the verge.o.freducing the costs of space travel.. The fu- ture of space travel willbe simpler, Iow-ma:inte11ance andreadily avail- able forallwho can f()ottlle bill. For all interested in the develop- ment and construction o-f the X-33 shaft there are two Internet web cameras monitoring the progress of the teams in P'almdale, California. The cameJa can be accessed through NASA webpage at www.nasa .. gov. . ~ ';~- ... q';. :t~ffi:~:~~ktt part ·i~ a· ·-·.·:· .. :'~~~\~~'!n ·, .. ,:: .. ~.-c.·:~.;~,~,~/ ,,_.;',. ·: . .· . . ••• ' . .. . I ' ' •' .~ '> ' - .... .,. < \\ ··•·R•Pr\lp~~·15 e~· .. s.igfDa ' ·. ~f}·~J:':J5P<JTerrti'ty r . ·· : . ·~-',,..~;:-)~~;-~:~:;~~L;~:=:<~t -:· -~~~~~-: 1 .:. • ·- • ' :;· , . . ~/: .. :'. ';. ,: '·:;~·:)'-;-.:: ... '' .•...• s,.;·JI~i , e~f.l.··<au~.~···••••···•·· ~;~;s~~~;

The Asian Persuasion The Dire Search for Controversy by Deric Harrington Staff Writter over $20 ... so just shut your pie- hole and buy a ticket) by Philip Cho Staff Writer This week's most controversial At tirnes,life seems so demand- Fir .t and foremost, I'd just like thing comes from rn.y armpits! ing. No matter what I do, I endl!p to say that my spleen has really Where do you come from.oh un- with stress at the end oftheday. I been hurting me this ,past week. . . grateful armpit of fear! know that you always told me to at least, I think it's my spleen. I'm The second most controversial ffi()Ve ~n in life, and not W()rry not exactly sure, because I'm not- thing is Black market babies! about my shortcomings that came so-good with bio ... so, I'll just Wow, what an intense column · to pass as a result of past oaggage. leave it at \some part ofmy body, when I talk about both black mar- But when it comes to crit~c:ism, I that feels spleen-like (although ket babies and armpit odor. La- can't deal with it because I feel it I've never known what my spleen dies and Gentlemen, this kind of is an injury directed at me for one feels like) is in pain ... \. Maybe combination kills. Kind of like :reason or another. I'm pregnant. Probably not, due bugs and raid ... which by the way, You always told me that criti- to the fact that the people at the kills bugs dead completely forever cism comes with life, and Ish()uld lab have told ~--------~----___, (the preced;. not let myselfbe injured by such me that I'm male. I just have to do a shameless plug for a band I feel strongly about: The band Gar- ''My spleen has really been hurting me this past week. \ ing an- nonsense. I lrnow that you.aJways n o u n c e - told me to be positive, and l()ok at ment has the light of every bad situation or been paid event that takes place. for (and I have tried, but it seems that well I may even thattnindsetdoesn'tall()wfor add) by the people to accept me. Suchis life I Raid corpo- · guess my dear. But why do I look ration of for such acceptance from people Denver, that I don't care about anyway? g ant u an~----~----------' CO). Isitbecauseiamaminoritymale Soul is playing at Northern Lights So, what are you getting me for that has issues with confidence as in Clifton Park, on Saturday, Feb. Valentine's Day? I like home- compared to the majority males in 19. They played Woodstock, and cooked meals ... meat preferably, , this country? This really doesn't really are set to become a major or just any non-veggie meal. In seem to make sense to me because breakthrough band. I cannot rec- return, I'll get you a ... umm ... an • I have lived a privileged life . ., and omniend seeing them enough, and autographed copy of next week's • continue to do so. this will be my fifth··time seeing article! Excitement! I know, I [ mustadinithowever, thatl have them live. They put on one of the know, now you must go change been discriminated against because truly visually interesting shows your underwear, you're so excited · of my race, but I always figured around, so please come out and at just the prospect of it. ·, that is something I must accept be- support them. They're so good, Speaking of dirty underwear. . . · · cause I am living in the United even my girlfriend likes them... It's laundry day tomorrow! That's . States. It's a choice I made, a:ndso (this would mean a lot more if you right, it's the one day out of every ·. I guess I must learn not to .take it know her. Write her at: monthorso,thatldecidethatmy. toohardifracismprevailsoncein SentancC@idol.union.edu don't tell her I told you write.) In other news, you should go to the world news page if you want news ... It's a rare day wheni plug two things in my column, but I'd als() just like to say that I encourage ev- eryone to attend the murder mys- tery going on this Saturday in up- per class. I went to it last year, and this one is written and directed underwear has been turned inside : a while in my life. But, :I have out enough times. (you laugh? i found that in general, for the most That hurts my feelings ... ass. , part, I have been protected against Wait, it's that exact thing that • such things most of my life. makes me want to wash my undies , Funny how racism works h()ney. now... eh, forget it, what's an- We are all guilty of it at one point other month?) or another I must admit. Even Judging by the shotgun to my • withinout own Korean culture, we head, I guess it's time to en... have biases based on race; I guess (there was no ending to this article in order to understand other :races, presented to the offices of the we nmstlearn from them first. I've Concordy. We apologize for any · been trying. Honest. Butthebar- by the same person, and it guaran- inconvenience this may have riers seem so hard. I feel a natural tees to be a blast. Plus, it's only ca~~ed ... and will bitch slap Deric comfort within my Korean c11lture $5 off your validine (this is where next week. and heritage. most people complainaboutitstill Until then, Deric may 'be There is more comfort witlt my being too much ... then I point out reached at: Dericjustgot own pe()ple. I know that many that regular tickets for a murder shotinthehead@aol.com or people would criticize me for this !!\~~T~:! (and already have in the past)~ but this ish()W I feel and I don't think 7 Bedroom House 2000-2001 Large Bedrooms, 2 Bathrooms, Modem Kitchen, Appliances, Extra Closets, Large Deck and Yard, Security System and only half Block from Campus One Year Lease A 28 Year Union Student Tradition! Call370-5498 I can change it right now. What I feel is more disturbing than these general issues I men- tioned above, is miscommunica- tion that often takes place when looking at race. People tend to assume tltat if one is say for example, \Asian~; that he --a. '\\m\ people in general doand feel about themselves. Whatis interesting to. me for the mostpartisthatitis the Asians themselves who jump and criticize you if they feel you are not the ''model\ ofwhatAsians are supposed to be. Yes I am Asian, but I am my own person. I don't see where race·defmes what I must do. I don't know Hyori. Maybe I just feel this way. I know that in life, not everyone is happy with what I do or write. You warned m.e l.>efore I started to write to the public that I should be preparing for ~gs like this to happen. I thought I was ready for the criticism, but I didn't expect it to appear as I thought it would. But, you always told :tne that some people couldn'tcriticize construc- tively. I learned my lesson. But in truth, the criticism did the op- posite effect of what it intended to do. 1 was more fueled by it, and I will now have to keep the title I have been using. Just out of prin- ciple more than anything else I guess. Am I being spiteful itJ. your pom.t of view? I kind of feel spite out of all that has comet() pass over this, but I will try to ta.ke it as a learn- ing experience. Just as you would want me to. You are too good to me, you know that? I am sure you already know. Sometimes, I wonder,why I even bother writing these articles for the public to see.. Am I doing any good by doing this? At times, it seems to me that I write for my- self. Maybe I am being a little self- ish, but maybe this helps me cope with things that I could not nor- mally deal with. What does it matter anyway. I guess in the end it isn't important who I write for really. Now dtm't stick your tongue out at rne. I know what your expression would be even before you read this letter. Oddly, that look you give me from time to time makes me si:nile. It reminds me how I am still so naive some- times. I think I'm still living in sugar plum fairyland. I need a reality check, but hopefully not as violent as the one I got last time (if you lrnow what I mean). Sigh ... and life goes on. Just as it will always do, and always. will Speaking oflife, medicine is supposed to taste bad, isn't it? Oddly enough,. I wasn~t writing to feed people medicine. The medicine is for me. We all need a spoon full of sug2r once in awhile dose of is you. I bet you already knew that though Hyori. Now don't blush on me. Whenever I say something sweet about you, you tend to do that. But it's nice to see it any- way. Anyway, back to what I was talking about I just feel that some- times people misunderstand me. I 'mnet really here to teachpeople a lesson, or to share my Korean (or Asian) culture with them. I'm just here to share a bit of my life with people in a weekly ritual I call healing. It is my life, so I have a right to share it. And I have shared it. Criticism seems awkward to me because any form of it implies a criticism of my life. This article is a work of my life. It is things that I deal with. Why don't people understand this point? But questioning won't solve anything. I know this honey. It is up to me to tolerate it I guess. You always told me that I shouldn'texpect people to change. I should change. I have been tty- ing, but it is so hard to change. I mean look at me. I still have is- sues involving Korean girls dating white guys. This is something that shouldn't be an issue for me, but it fundamentally it is. I know that people are going to crucify me for saying this .. But;. it is an issue with me and I will have to deal with it. It's that plain and simple. I have a lot of things to deal with if I'm going to grow, I'll get there someday, but I don't know when I will. In ending on a lighter note, I hope that I have shared with you , enough for you to undersmnd my soul better. I know that I am im- perfect, and' I need to fix a lot of things in my life. But as I told you before, I must heal.before I can change and grow. The process is slow, and it seems that at times I am going in circles. But I will get there. You have helped me heal and grow by just being there for me. I know that you are far up ahead than I am right now, although you are younger than I am. thanks for looking back, and watching over me as I make baby steps.to catch up with you. I grow with you just being by my side. As the Koreans say when things get to11gh, \Fight- ing!!\ Keep safe, take care of yourself, and call me from time to time. I will see you later. You are and will always be my F mo thil I'rr stm as 1 lea vat C01 pla I'll abt ( WI lie· ca1 thi bn tra WC m~ Wt the thl thi nc co to fil re w~ ac bt sr th 1' I 1 in m c] SC b• fr s1 tc tl g d c d

, r .. ~ ·· Features ((Ellltt11rbieui!iis • February 10, 2000 · Page 13 W \ \h. • • B t lDIDg •·. ra S Freddie Would Be Proud by Jen Setlur Staff Writer. So here I am, another Saturday monring, trying to thinlc of some- thing illteresting to write about. I'm ex.:periencirtg a mild case of starvati()n. I can only classify it as :tnild since I have recently been learning more and more about star- . vation in Third and Fourth World countries. I shouldn't even com- plain ofhunger, but I can't help it; I'll just complain and feel guilty about it after breakfast. Contr:ary to what the staff of West Dining might want to be- lieve, th:ere are some of us on this campus. who are awake and have things to do before ten when brunch is served. I can '!>concen- trate on my trutssive pile of home- work when I am this hungry. The homework is courtesy of my ,professors in honor of midterm weeks. Don't get me wrong, Ilove the trimester system, but I dread the fifth and sixth weeks. Y oli think it would be easy only hav- ing three classes and all, but it's not. 'The work just seems to be coming from every direction. Not to mention the fact that I have to fill out applications for summer research positions since I want to work someplace that people have actually heard of. I complain about all this now, but I will be so happy when the sixth week ends, and there are only three weeks left of Organic at 8:25. 1 will also be happy when I knew I don',( have to spell:d the summer in my boring hometown, commut- ing to my job since I refuse to work closer to home. I guess ifi wasn't sostllbbomfmdingajobwouldn't be a big deal, but I arrL .. that's just situation was unaccepU1ble. We all know howmucltthey make us p~y \ to live here, so I felt this problem • should be takenoare o:t: The prob- by Dan Centi Staff Writer lem was pretty llOticeable, and for When Freddie Mercury first de- a school this size, I would think vised the name for what would tha~ it would 'veD>een .solved with- become one of the most success- O\U-t repeated re<nuest. ful rock bands the world has ever Maybe that's why we all com- \ seen, his outrageously camp sense plain so much, it takes so long for of1mmor was immediately evident things to change:. Since the school Queen defmed their place in mu- is relatively small and of course, sichistorythroughastonishing gui- entirely too expensive, we expect tar work, amazing vocals, and are- Greatest Hi:t\s III is perhaps the most personal of 'the Hit's collec- tions, and also the most haunting. Even the most devoted Queen fan will not easily re.cognize most of the songs om. tae album, since much of this work was cem,pleted by request oftbelate Mercury who died during their recording pro- cess. While a few of the songs are variations of Queen staples, such as the \Rah Mix\ of \Under Pres- that certain requests can and will freshing lightheartedness. Their sure,\ and live versions of \The be granted, and when they're not, distinct larger than life quality was Show Must Go On\ and \'Some- we complain. uniquely their own, and they still body To Love,\ Oteatest Hit III of them. However, the jewel in the Queen Hits III crown is the ballad \Too Much Love Will Kill You,\ with Freddie Mercury singing so well that the loss the industry suffered with his passing becomes even clearer. One can only hope that the re- mainingmembers of Queen decide to someday reunite and tour again, even though replacing Freddie Mercury would be impossible. The real shame is that now. more than ever, Queen is enjoying un- bridled dder statesmen status. What I was asJcing maintenance stand alone as the Man~ current to take care of .tid not cost them . _only four piece ,...-..------~-~---~-------~--------, bands and artists, anymoneyeraJtyex:tratirne,soi .band in history ffT'h\ e band.ca·.ZZ\ed Que·en.· sue as Wyclef was frustrated{touseGratedlan- 'with each member .1 l . (who covered g11age) when dlay after day, the responsible for 1 h D F dd • ~I \Anther One problem persisted. I can under- , writing chart top· J 0 .. n ·· eaCOn, · . re ze 1Vl er- Bites the Dust\) stand why the Concert conunittee ping material: B ) f d R the Foo Fighters, hasahardtimegettinggoodbands . But above all, CUry, · rain 1v1.ay, an Oger and Guns n' for Springfest,lbutthereareother · Qneenwasrespon- · Roses, hold thingsatthisscbool.thatdon'tcost sible for some of Taylor, is a legend. \ Queen in the anything to iniJDrove. Even when . the most memo- '-------------------------__. greatesi respect, astudentbringsotheseproblems to rable and impor- showcasing the attention, nothing isdone, and few tant songs following the Beatles in many respects is like getting a range and diversity of Queen's of us have the time to badger the and their redefinition of music. fresh Queen atbum .. The new rna- work and their success at experi- petson responsLble. Not thatl had Since the passing of Mercury, terial, inchtding the infectiousley menting with different musical the time,.but I made time, and not the legacy and significance of energetic \Let Me Live,\ which styles. many people ane willing to do that. Queen • s work has transcended the features a vene sung by drummer I believe the population does I'm not sure that I'd be willing to humor long since associated with Roger Taylor, and dance club in- too, as evidenced by Queen's mu- do it again. it and actually become '(appropri- fluenced \You Don't Fool Me\ sic consistently being ranked It is the ine:-.ritable that people ately to their name) rock and roll sound great, and are as good as among the greatest sC>ngs of all are going to complain, whetherit's royalty. With the release .of the anything Qu:een has done in the time in public polls.lttakes more about maintenllnce or academics. • third volume of their Greatest Hits, past. \Barcelona\ and \Driven by than just a rock band t<l incite such I'm sure there would be a lot of the surviving members of Queen You,\ the solo hits ofFreddie Mer- admiration from their peers and complaints evem if the school were close the chapter on the most sig- cury and Brian May, fit perfectly fans, it takes legends. relatively clos!:'to perfectJ. Some nificant period of their lives that into the overalil sound of the com- The band called Queen: John of us complain., but also try to fix forever changed the music world. pilation, and '\Princes of the Uni- Deacon, Freddie Mercury, Brain the problem. When no one else A testament to Queen's longev- verse\ is a strong reminder that May, and Roger Tay)C>r, is a Ieg- \in charge\ is-willing to help we · ity and wide spread influence, Queencouldstillrockwiththebest end. areleftwithfe:woptions,includ- D. ··ust-F. I•lte· ·d W\ orld ing mote complaining and, in . some cases, transferring. I don't think that the administration wants thin coat of dust in what seems like the dust offof each individual leaf. the way it is. either of these:, but they need to by Brian Kern Staff Writer less than a minute. So whenever I want to drillk something I have to go wash a dish, even though it was already w<l'Shed before. And even when I've done that there is often still more dust, which requires a second cleaning. I can't say that I enjoy wiping the leaves on my plant, but it has to be done. So, now that I've rambled on, I understand thaltwhen people have . still can't think of anything good no other choice, they are forced to ------------ to say, except list complaints about find an alternative. Not everyone I've had this problem recently. this school, which seems to be the at this school iis the stereotypical I'm not referring to being over- goingtrend. We all know the stan- spoiled kid; some of us actually · loaded with work or being unable dard that you really shouldn't worked hard to get here. We sirn- to find the elusive Holy Grail complain unless you're willing to ply get disappointed when we see· known as sleep. I'm actually re- do something about it. our reasonablle expectations go ferring to dust. It's everywhere, Which brings me to my next unfulfilled and I can't stand it.. poi:nt. I recently had a mainte- Yes, itwouldbeniceifwecould' Iaminnowayadeanfreak. My nance problem in my dorm, and all stop complaining about other dorm room is like any other with after calling repeatedly for about people complaining, but it would · respect to random debris being three weeks, the problem was fi- also be nice if we could be assured scattered about. But on the same nally solved. I won't give specific once in a while that we made the hand it isn't a giant pigsty either. details, but let's just say that the right decision in coming here. So why is everything coated in this _;,__...:._ ___ !:_~__:_-~-~~~;,__----~=-----l layer of dust? I'm sure you know 8 . ·EX what I mean. Even as I'm sitting . ' here writing this article I am con- SCA.NOAL, templating whether my computer screen needs repairs or ifi just need & 0 INN Eft to wipe off another half inch of dust that has once again accumulated on C.~ome to the Mounte!hanks 2nd annual ~~rdl:r-~y-nery dinner it. On a closer look I realize of course that it is once again an ac- cumulation of light brown fluff. Without a doubt it is my computer 1hat has the most problems with .:rb . dust. It covers not only the screen, ~.SJ>inster in a Hanu.l ag but thewholemonitor. It gets in · between the keys on the keyboard. On Saturday, Feb. 1:2 at 6:80pm. It infests the hard drive. So not · -o:nly is it unpleasant to look at, but in 1J pperclass Di n·i n g. dust has detrimental effects as well. Another serious problem with \Reserve your ti<.~ket in t.tu~ (~(:by dustismydrinkingglass. Ikeepa b H 0 1 a1· d. '1 glass on my desk for water but I Fe .. l 1 · · · n Y $n VI · 1 Ine · · can never use it because it is con~ t ' • .. . ' ' p- , •• ··~ stantly filthy. Even when I wash it , out it becomes C1>vered in another This bec()mes very annoying. For those ofyo-u out there won- dering why I don't just tum the cup upside do Wit 1 have some news for you. That doesll!' t work. Dust still \Even when I clean the leaves off, they don't stay clean for long.\ gets inside, under the edge of the cup. Son(} matter what I do my glass is always disgusting. AnotheT problem is with my plant. Obviously, my plant needs to get sunlight, but that can't hap- pen with it coated in dust. There's always this layer offluffcovering the leaves preventing it from get- ting any arnGunt of light. Even when I clean the leaves off, they don't stay dean for long. It only takes a few minutes before the leaves lose their glossy look and become d11ll once again. This in particular becomes aggravating because it takes a long time to clean the plant off. I have to wet paper toweLs and carefully wipe So, anyway, I am just really sick of everything being covered in dust, which is why I have brought up this topic. I know, it is a very mundane subject, and it makes a pretty poor topic for an article. However, I can't go any longer without speaking out about this. I mean, it's not like the dust can re- ally be removed permanently, even though it can be cleaned. No matter what there will always be more dust. Of course I didn't 11nderstand this until a friend of mine at- tempted to explain it. He said that most dust is the result of dead hu- man skin cells. I will say that this little fact was not really something I wanted to know, as it is quite un- pleasant. Although., it makes sense. Think about it, in a house there are a few people living in a large area, which is why tllere is less dust. But here in the dorm there are many people livin~ in a much smaller area, which is why there is so much dust. Unfortunately that explanation really doesn't make me feel any better. Whether or nCJt I know why there is so much dust won't cure the problem. So here I sit in the . dust-filled world, wisbingitwould all just go away.

. \ New UN Panel Formed for Iraqi Inspection byCllarles 1uthill Staff Writer Thirteen m0nths after the end.of the U.S. and British bombing cam- paign, experts are again worrying about wea.pons of mass destruc- tion in Iraq. Concern over the Iraqi weapons program has heightened as the UN starts to put together a new panel f()r weapons inspection. The panel willl>e headed by former Sweden foreignminister Hans Blix. One of the challenges facing Blix' s team will be to fmd concrete evidence 0flraq' s biological weap- ons, if any exist. Many experts believe that in the year since the large scale b0mbings of Iraq, the country has developed new bio- logical weapons. Milton Leitenberg, who is an expert on these weapons, has been study- ing the situation in Iraq. Leitenbwg believes that Iraq may be trying to create a new biological agent, to he used in germ warfare. He bases his finding on a series of reports from people who have knowledge of the Iraqi weapons program. Included in these reports is information frqmtwo Iraqi de- fectors. Mystery surrounds the Iraqi pro- gram, however, and Milton could not specuJate on what the new agent mig:ht be. In fact, experts cannot say with certainly that the new agents lraq is developing are biological. The lack of evidence about Iraq's weapons program has not stopped other researchers from making hypothetical C()nclusions about Iraq's current activity. Brit- ish researchers, fm ex.amplel have suggested tb.at Iraq may be trying executive chaittnan ofthe tJN Spe- cial Conunission on Iraq, believes that Siidd~Hussein' sregime took drastic steps to hide their biologi- cal program. He says, \Iraq has consistently made extraordinarily strenuous ·ef.:.. forts to hide the biological pro- list includesde;:~dly agents such as anthrax as well as many infectious agents such as botulinum toxin, camel pox, and infectious hemor~ rhagic conjunctivitis virus. 'The commission, however, does not believe that it Was abfe to ac- count for all the bielogical agents \Iraq denied having biological weapons until 1995, when iheformer UN commission investigating Iraq found a lang list ofbiological agents. The list-includes deadly agents such .as anthrax as well as m.any infec~ tio,us agents such as botuliuum toxip, camel pox, and the hem·orrlf:agic conjun.cti-vitis virus.\ . . ·-. ., . to develop the h11bonic plague, Evidence ofattempts,tocreate the black plague, however., is hard to come by. American experts say that informati011 that backs up the theory has not been published. The UN also says tllat it found no evidence of the bub()nic plague in Iraq_ UN officials luve concrete kn0wiedge of the existence.ofbio- logical programs jn_ Iraq. The pro- cess of gathering. evidence on these programs was difficult ac- cording to the former inspectors. Richard Butler, who is the f()rmer . J'' ·-· .i' gram.\ He also believes that Iraq has done much mote to hide its bio- logical weapons research than it has done to hide its other weap'- ons programs. Butler pelieves that the painstak- ing attempts. to conceal the pro- gram reveal that the Iraqis had something to hide. He thinks that the program was extensive and called it \big .and nasty.\ Iraq denied having biological weapons until1995. The former UN comniission investigating Iraq found a long list of biological agents despite Iraqi claims. The that Iraq possessed. Also not ac- counted for were the amounts of growth materia~ which were used to produce th~ agents. With internatioQ.al . sanc~ions crippling Iraq's economy, many wonder where Inlq has gotten the money to fund its weapons pro- grams. Many have speculated that Iraq has broken certain aspects of the UN sanctions. Under UN .regu- la~ons Iraq may sell up t~n billion dollars of its crude oil in order to pay for food and other essential goods. These funds a:re watched closely by the UN, but many experts be- lieve that Iraq has b!;!ell able to di- vert some of them. for ()ther pur- poses. Oil sold illegally :is ~tlso a source of ffiqome for Iraq. American offi- cials believe that a R.u~sian tanker call)'ing oi:l, stoppec:l Monday in Oman, is a:n exarn.ple. (lfS()rne Iraq.' s ill~gal revenue. An American Cf\liset, which was part of a multinationalp~trol, seized the tanker. The carg() of the sh~p was tested, and the results point to Iraq as the source()[ the its oil. In a statement, the US Navy said. that•'do~uments an <I <lata from.[ the tanker] ... support the conclusion oftb.e oil analysis\ andt:hat \docu- ments found in the staJeroom of the first officer, aniJa.qinational\ also back up this co11clusion. American intellig~oce believes that l~st month Iraq was' able to smuggle 317,000 metric tons of oil out of ~e country. fiey believe that this is an all timeiligh for Iraq, and that the sales amount to over $62 :million in illegaJrevenue forthe country, if the oil was ~old at cur- rent marketprices. With the UNprep~liJ: to resume weapons inspectiollS, it is uncer: tain how much longer flaq' s alleged. biological we.apoiJS inc}~try will be able to profit from these funds. Clearly, an additi()na:.l conflict is probably in the near future for the UNandlraq. RepubHcan Presidential Fields Narrows to Four by D tid Gruner Sl.:rffWriter As the 2()00 election finally got underway lllst week. the candidates from both parties were finally given the chance to prove the polls wrong. For weeks, numerous polls were issued daily, predicting who was most likely to succeed President Clinton. And, for the most part, the candidates did exceptionally well, disproving their critics and energizing their already driven sup- porters. Yet, one candidate did not fair so well, losing to the poll num- bers, and llltimately dropping out of the presidential race. Gary Baaer, one of five remain- ing Republican candidates, ended his White House bid on the morn- ing of Friday, February 4, 2000. During a press conference at a downtown Washington hotel, Mr. Bauer emotionally stated, \Today I'm withdrawing from the contest for the Republican presidential nomination ... I do that feeling good about the effort that has been made and the debate that has been set.\ He joins the ranks of fellow GOP candidates: Representative and Budget Cl1airman John Kasich; Tennessee Governor Lamar Alexander; former Vice President, Dan Quayle; former Labor Secre- tary Elizabeth Dole; md Utah. Sena- tor Orrin Hatch, wlio dropped out after his dismal shovvrng at the Iowa Caucus. Gary Rauer, a former advisor during th.e Reagan admin- istration an<l: current president of Washington's Family Research Council, finished with just one per- cent of the VQte in the New Hamp- shire primary. president, yet did comment on the two front-runners, Senator John McCain and Governor George W. Bush. He congratulated the Ari- zona Senator for his \incredible showing\ in New Hampshire, call- ing him \a good and decent man.\ As for Govenor Bush, he said the Texan \bas put together a tre- mendous national campaign.\ The lieving morality and American val- ues to be the cornerstone for a Republican revival in the upcom- ing election. And until one of the four candidates begins to move towards the issues he outlined, Bauer will not endorse anybody. Even though Bauer withheld any immediate support, he did of- fer his gratitude to those remain- \Bauer refused to speculate as to whom he would en- dorse for president yet did comment on the two front- runners, Senator John McCain and Governor George W. Bush. He congratulated the Arizona Senator for his 'incredible showing' in New Hamps.hire, calling him 'a good and decent man~ '\ He knew rig:ht away that his chances a twinning the nomination were slim and thetefore weighed his options heavily before decid- ing whether or not he should com- mit to South Caroli:ua, th.e next key state in the Republicoanprimary. After meeting witll his campaign staff, he thought it bestto dr0p out and let the remaining fDllf GOP can- didates to battle f<lr the nomina- tion. Bauer refusedto speculate as to whom he wo11ld endorse for other two remaining nominees, multimillionaire Steve Forbes, and conservative talk-radio show host Alan Keyes, Bauer did not men- tion. Mr. Bauer, during the news con- ference, reiterated the issues that were central to campaign-his strong opposition to abortion, his concerns about trade ties with. China, and his keenness for pro- family themes. He was a social conservative to say the least, be- ing in the GOP field, adding, \any one of them would be abetter presi- dent than the likely nominee of the Democratic Party.'' For those that are still in the race, namely Bush~ Forbes, McCain,. and Keyes, all are likely to make it all tb.e way to the Republican Na- tional Convention in Philadelphia. Each. candidate has proven to the nation that theirplatfonns are worth listening to, and while each may have his own specific agenda, they all believe that the poast eight years have tarnished ow once rich na- tion. November, therefore, is a must win. Who that Repllblican nominee will be is yet to be tieterrnined, al- though Bush an~ McCain are clearly the favorites. Bllt that could change instantly, as eyes have seen over the years: PatBllc:hanan won New Hampshire in 1996, yet ulti- mately lost to Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole at the conven- tion. Only through effort and char- acter and ,admittedly~ money, can a candidate make :it ·through the process and have alegitimate shot at gaining the nod fo:r the general election. Only time will tell ifthe remaining four hastl!at sort ofcon- fidence, but my guess is that they do. Unfortunately, Gary Bauer hadn't the money lle so desper- ately needed. Aside from the m()ney, though, Bauer is sure to \rem~iri a player in the days and weeks ahead.\ He has \moved the d:ebate a great deal. .. making his o'vn message and delivering :his own message ... and outlas1ing some in- credibly big names.~· And for that, he deserves the respecthe so gen- erously asked for. Bauer will re- main with the p~ to help push for a Republican·to e11ter the White House next year. Wo1 J. ,Pea~ andS: raeliP rt()ttc Dama g:uerri thr~el non. Bat tone! Syria Hezbc I~eli th~ts thefl< Thl an1b11 zone. cu:rit) ro<Jkl niac:h they 1 Israel S0UtiJ Af1 lea set ers.st theo cam.e seni() lied r Is..ae cwit; Be attac nine sitiot pi.ed T1 S.en1 tial~ h. as vict1 itis mos elate statl a bit Gee mat T Poll 6, ( l;Ol tere ReJ poll hel< \lOti thir ln. a not Al~ fo11 hot; fon

WorldNews OJ:nm:arMmsis • February 10, 2000 ·Page 15 Ambush Causes Halt of Israel-Syria Talks by PldlipCho Stt!I;JWr.iter Peace prospects betwee:Q. Israel and Syria ar.e in jeopardy after Is- raeJi Prime Minist~r-Barak decide<l not to further neg()tia.tion:s unless Dam.ascus -rews·m the Hezbollah guerrillas responsible for killing thr~e Israeli soldiers in south Leba- non. Barak sajd, \Ismel will not be able to negotiate peace as long as the Syri.ans ·do not re·sttl:li-n the Hezbollah from acting against the Isr~eli anny.\ Israel has maintained tbctt Syria has imphicitly approved the flow of arms to Hezbollah. The soldiers were killed in an ambush in the Israeli-occupied zone. According to Lebanese se- curity officials, the gueJ,Tillas frred rocket-propelled grenades and machine guns at the soldiers as they patrolled a r()ad north of the Isr-aeli border (about seven miles southwest of Marjayoun) .. After the attack, l:Iezbollah re~ leased a statementsayit).gthe fight-· ers.stageda \daring attack deep in the occupied zone.\ The a.m,hush came after the guerrillas killed a senior commander- in an Israeli-al'- lied militia insoutbLebanon. The Israeli bas declared this area a se,.. cwity.zone since 1985. Before and after the Hezbollah attack, Israefi warplanes staged nine air raids against guerrilla po~ sitions in areas around the occn- pi.ed zone. It is unlrnown if the air ,' .. L· r!lids have produced any casllal- ties. The Israeli casualties means further political tto-qble for Barak, who is already under fue in a cam- paign 1rnance sca.Ildal (Mentioned in a previous · artide of Concordiensis.) The no-confi- dence vote, which was to be held inparliament, was putoffuntil next week following .the aDB()uncement \We condemn the violence and urge restraint on all parties that have mflu.ence intheregion.\ u.s. Secre-tary of State Madeleine Albright also urged Syria to rein in Hezbollah. Albright said fighting in smtthem Lebanon did not help the peace process and called on both. sides to exercise restraint. Fighting between Israeli and ,: . y '\;;'-· . . ; . . Lebanon Army militiamen man this strip of the Lebanese territory. Lebanese security officials said the guerrillas fm;d an anti-tank rocket at the Israeli military outpost in Radar. No casualty reports are available from the air and m()rtar attacks. Israeli army officials claim thatthe SLA forces discovered a weapons ... '''16e,~t!tilie.rs. were llilletl:i.n an ambush in the .l\Spl1{~1f~~~~-pie'i/ ·:, A:c_(J~J2tli#g_,to Lebanese security . · ·gf!!f'l!''~~:.'~~'~;,~/~~J~ti~tl~~Jif:d.~--~il~ket•propelledgrenades sntl,illir-ki~~;'gJi,,,s~~\i ·:~iJ.,tJieP's .as they patrolled a road n·qlih;.{tf:J/It'fi:J}$~(i~li~iltJtd~r,. tii!Jut seven miles so.uthwest · _.,. .... ·.. . . . . . : ,_ · · · : ;:·ol.tlrJ.IJiotln~ 'r of the k;illillg of the [sraeli soldiers. Barak: accused Syria of allowing the Hezbollah.. attacks. in order to pres- sure Israel into conc:essions. He said, ••It is ... the Syrians that are behind supply lines and freedom ofmovement\ Meanwhile, U.S .. officials plead for restraint U.S. officials said they didn't read Barak's statement as setting preconditions for continu- ing tallcs, but rather as an assess~ ment that Hezbollah 's attack~ were a thre~t to peace negotiations. Dav:id Leavy, a spokesman for theN atioiU~l-Security Council, said \ ' •• ' - .,:_ • ,o~ guerrilla forces ill Israeli-occupied southern Lebanon have also prompted international calls for re- s.train.t on ali sides of the conflict. Witnesses and security sources say Israeli aircrafts have hit sus- pected guerrilla targets near the Habboush River and Majdal Zoun. An Israeli spokesman canfnmed the ai.Jstrik.es. Meanwhile, Iranian- backed Hezbollah .guerrillas said they launched a series of attacks again.st four outposts on the edge of Israel's security zone near the Lebanese border. Israeli troops and the South cache in the occupied zone that included a machine ~un and rock- ets belonging to guerrillas. The army claims that th.~ SLA forces removed the cache. Britain, the United States and France have ex- pressed concern :tbout the in- creased fighting in t.'he region. The increased fighting and heightened danger in southern Lebanon bas prompted UN. peace- keepers in the regicn to confine their troops to batraci<s. U.N. head'- quarters said the U.N. had no in- tention of withdrawmg peacekeep- ers from southern Lebanon, de- spite the risk_. Israel has linked the surge in violence to the recent im- passe in peace talks between Is- rael and Syria. Despite the intemationalcalls for restraint on the conflict, Israeli planes continue to strike more tar- gets in Lebanon. The most recent airstrike destroyed three power plants. Thousands of Israelis fled to bomb shelters in fef.l.l' of coWI- terattacks by Hezb01lah guerrillas. Meanwhile, a soldier from the South Lebanon Army was kiHed in an anti-tank fire in southern Leba- non . Lebanondairns at leasteighteen people have been injured in the airstrikes. Lebanese Prime Minis- ter Salim Hoss said that he consid- ers the attacks on the power grid \unjustified and unacceptable.\ The raids on three power sta- tions around Beirut caused \mil- lions of dollars in damages .. \ The raids risk setting back ef- forts to restart the stalled land-for- peace negotiations between Israel and Syria Peace was in tb.e grasp of the Middle East. Somehow, amidst raids and violence, it seems that it will be much harder to ob- tain than anticipated. Conflict has existed in this re- gion for thou·sands of years. Clearly, history is not on the side of peace; however, with both sides continuing with negotiations, a possible cease of violence might be attained. Still, the possibility that we might see peace in our life time is a striking phenomenon. Anti-Establishment Candidates Push Against Leaders by Stephen Nemeth Stqj[Writer Neil R()utman World News Editor The recent Sl.lccess of Arizona Senator John McCain's presiden- tial campaign in New Hampshire h.as yielded another unexpected victory for McCa:in, only this time it is the recognition of being the most popular Presidential candi- date. Along with. his newfound statu.s of being th.-e most recogniz- able candidate, he has bested George W. Bush in a hypothetical match-up for the first time. The CNN/USAToday/Gallup Poll, conductedfromFebruary4- 6, consisted of interviews with 1;018 people, including 386regis- t-eredDemocratsan:d401 registered Republicans. N11mbers from the poll indicate that if the election were held today fifty-eight percent of voters would choose McCain and thirty-six percent wauld pick Gore. b a similar scena:rio, Texas Gover- nor George W. Bush would beat Al Gore by a fifty-three to forty- four percent margin. McCainals;o holds a larger lead than Bush over former Senator B1ll Bradley. Even though the p()ll numbers much support from veterans who have realized tllat we will see bode well for McCain, over half of groups and disillusioned Republi- a Republican president elected later all the registered voters still wish cans. this year have emhraced McCain. to see George W. BU:sh win the B11sh is working with a disadvan- Despite this critical advantage, the party nomination even though tage because nearly two-thirds of Democratic support is nullified for McCain'~ share ofthe McCain because of the GOP vote has more fl .. ·. · · . . . . l.-. . .•. · . . if· primary system (except than <loubled sin{)e . 'Numbers fr9m the po 1 ,ndlcate that ' for those voters who January. Also, the the election Wete helt/ todayjifty-eight switch ]Jarties just to p~rcentage of vo~ers percent o~' voters would choose McCain . vote in the ~rimariesJ .. w1th a favorable I.IIl- ~. . . 'J . · . · · , : . If Mc~m can mam- pression of McCain · and thirty-six percent Would pick tain his pressure and mo- has risen from sixteen (}(Ire. ,, mentum with the help of to siventy-six percent the anti-establishment during that time period, the high- all registered Republican voters Republicans and swing-voting in- est rating of any presidential can- say that they prefer a candidate dependents, his election is almost didate nationwide. During this time who's not tied to the party's lead- certain once he receives the Repub- periodtheratings forihe other can- ers. This indicates that many of licannomination. didates remained the same. Bush• s endorsements and support This election year has seen the Mc(;ai:Ii has gained on George from lrigh-tanking party officials traditional anti-estalllishment can- W. Busb by using his record as a may work against·him in the long didates bid againstth.e party struc- Repulllican who bas repeatedly run. ture.. The last tim.e a successful voted his conscience rather than However, this is not the case candidate won as a Washington the party line, to the cb.a~ ofRe- amongst Democratic voters. Many outsider was in 197 6 when Jimmy publican leaders. He has also of those polled said they would Carter defeated inc\lffibent Presi- fougb.tforcampaignftnancereform prefer a candidate who retains dent Gerald .Ford. The system is even as his cohorts decried the strong ties to party leaders and is slanted against th.e Washington proposal as \unilateral ,disarma- loyaltotheparty,akeyreasonGore outsiders, giving fue incumbents :ment.\ McCainhasalsodiscreetly, has maintained a strong lead over and Washington insiders numer- yet effectively, worked his per- BJ;adley. The association of Albert ous advantages and political alli\ sonal history into his campaign. Gore with the Clinton Administra- ances- perks that McCain and Bra- His history as a POW who endured tion. significantly hindered Gore's dley have, yet n<>t to the extent of over 7years ofimprisonment dur- chances for a successful White their counterparts. While McCain ing the Vietnam War has won him House bid. So, swing Democrats has experienced stlccess against front-runner George Bush, his Democratic counterpart Bill Brad- ley, has faltered against the vice- president. Bradley has tried to use the out- sider label t() his advantage, but has not encountered the same suc- cess as McCain. In fact, his posi- tion as the outsider has negatively impacted him amongst democrats who see party loyalty as an asset. In a recent poll asking voters which candidate they s~e as the winner of the democratic nomination, sixty-five percent expressed sup- port for Gore versus twenty-four percent for Bradley. Bradley, since his defeat has also lost ground against John McCain. In January, McCain enjoyed a slim forty-nine to forty-five percent lead, after the New Hampshire primary; McCain has added to his lead he now en- joys a fifty-eight to thirty• five per- cent lead. During McCain's stunning vic- tory in New Hampshire, the once insurmountable twenty-point lead of George W. Bush over McCain vanished to a statistical dead heat. McCain appmaches South Caro- lina with a reinvigorated campaign and a platform that sets the tone rather than react to it. Write for WorldNews. Contact Neil Routman at routmann@union .. edu_for more information. - - '>.

. ' .... _.,., - The Rise Plays at Coffeehouse by Kimberly Robback A&E Editor C()ffeehouse hosted a crowd pleas:ing event last Tuesday, in- volving two local guests, cha- rades, and a band called The Rise. Around nine o'clock, a small group of students found their way up to Raymond North to kick off a night ()ffree coffee and entertain- ment. Two new faces were among the crowd. They were local resi- dentswho had noticed the crowds and casual atmosphere of Tues- day nights at Coffeehouse, and decicled to attend. The couple broughttheir guitar and their origi- nal music. They sang beautiful folk songs which they had com- posed themselves for about forty mi.il.utes. As the couple sang the audience grew. By the end of their performance, the crowd was enthusiastically applauding and awaiting the ar- rival of the night's featured band. scheduled to host the game, but for it to end an hour ago. I'm here As promised, the next event of the as he cannot spend more than two to see The Rise.\ evening was Charades. consecutive days in Schene~tady, The band set up for a packed Last term's round of Coffee- hewasnotinthestate. JuliaNaftilin house. Theyplacedasmall,dim house Charades produced some gave a fme performance acting out lamp in the center ofthe .stage and talented competition. Many of the charades which ranged from ~'I am burned incense th\roughout the participants returned for a second the Beatles,\ to \I am. the Eiffel course of the petfl)rmance. The try at the grand prize ... a r--~----~-----~-~---~ dim colorful lights of the date with M,ike Capraro. ~ ·· C · ffi h · d th Capraro begged not ·to. be \[The\ .a. c*e· d' 1 o· :Ut 0 . ee Ol.Tse, an. . . e 'J \' 1 \ blue flames painted on the placed on the prize list C'h ,r1 ~~-- d back wall of the stage, again after a disappoint- . .· araues litat.range completed thewaon, yet ing date with Charades fi '[ h B :1 ' magicalatmosphere. The champion Assad. Of. TOm ··. am t . e · etlfteS band. played original course,· we did not listen. to 'I am· th·e· E· 1 ; r£e.l rock-funk-jams into the The categories were the r:JJ 41 night. I have to admit, I brain child of diligent Cof- U , '' was very·.· .impressed. The •o·w. er.·. feehouse manager Brooke . Rise proved to be one of Zeigerman. Zeigerman the finest bands I have s.pent hours tirelessly pro- ducing challenging charades like, '\The Mayflower\ and \Pearl Har- bor.\ Some of the contestants scowled at the challenge presented by these categories, but persevere<! in the end. Justin Pitcher wa.s Tower.\ After approximately an hour of Charades, the crowd grew ~ious, and the band was at last ready io perform. Senior Debbie Pellish sa-id of the Charades game, \I was ready heard in my nearly four years at Union. Drummer Ian White said, \I had a great time. I hope everyone· en- joyed themselves.\ Judging by the number of people who stayed well into the night, I would bave to con- dude they did. , I was particularly impressed by the high quality and precision of the group's sound, They were deady well-rehearsed and their music was not on:1y \funky but their own. Congratulations to The Rise on a wonderful performance. Coffee- house was .a btilliant success. Good times. Good coffee. Good music. This past Tuesday Coffee- house hosted a tribute to Black History Month, however that could not make this editi()n of Concordien~is. Please look for a review of this week's Coffeehouse in next week's issue. Coffeehouse is open to the everyone .every Tuesday night for music, literary presentations, theatrical perfor- mances, Ol' any oth<;:r sort of artis- tic production anyone would like to put on. Lciok for the Coffeehouse's new web page on VirtualU! V -Day Takes the Stage .. on Valentine's Day An Ideal Movie .. 1 was worried about vaginas. l was worried about what we think ab<lut vaginas, and even more worried that we don't think about them ... So I decided to talk to women about their vaginas, to do vagina interviews, which became ~agina monologues. I talked with hundreds of women. I talked to old women, young women, mar- ried women, single women, lesbi- ans, college professors, actors, corporate professionals, sex work- ers, African American women, Hispanic women, Asian American women, Native American women, Cattcasia:n women, Jewish women. At first, women were relu.ctant to talk. They were a httle shy. But once they got going, you couldn't stop them'· (Eve Ensler). This Valentine's Day, join withcotlege women all across the country as Union pre .. sents The Vagina Mono- log~tes. In The Vagina Mono- log'tles, Eve Ensler has given voice to a chorus of lusty, outra,.. geous, poignant; brave, highly original and thoroughly human stories. Based on interviews wi1h a diverse group of women- from a Long Island antique dealer to a Bosnian refugee - the play bra- zenly explores the humor, power, pain, wisdom, outrage, mystery and excitement hidden in vaginas. Having seen The Vagina Mono- logues, no one- woman or man- will everlook atthe world the same way again. rhe Vagina Monologues has bee11 called \A bona fide phenom- enon\ by The New York Times, \Alternately funny, poetic and provocative\ by Entertainment Weekly, \Marvelous one of the best shows in town\ by The Daily News and •• A work of art and a piece ()[cultural history\ by Variety. The Vagina Monologues was originally produced in an Obie Award-winning run in 1996 by HOME for Contemporary Theatre and Art at HERE. Since that time, it has toured 1he country and inter- nationally, with performances in Jerusalem, Berlin, Athens, Zagreb and a hit run in London. The text ()f The Vagina Monologues has also been used in two wildly suc- cessful benefit performances en- titled V -Day( 1998 in New York atJ.d 1999 in London), in which Eve Ensler was joined by sueh stars as Glenn Close, Cate Blanchett, Winona Ryder, Susan Sarandon, Whoopi Goldberg, Marisa Tomei, Rosie Pere~, Lily Tomlin, Ka1e Winslett, Melanie Griffith and Calista Flockhart. Eve Ensler is an award-winning playwright, poet, activist, and screenwriter. Her many works fvr the stage include The Depot, Float- ing Rhoda and The Glue Man, E:x- traordinary Measures, Conviction, Lemonade, Ladies and Scooncat. Her play Necessary Targets was performed on Broadway with Meryl Streep, Angelica Huston and Cherry Jones, to benefit Bosnian women refugees, and was then given a performance in Washing- ton, D.C.to honor Hillary Clint()n. Her play The Vagina Monologues won a 1997 Obie Award and was nominated for Drama Desk and Helen Hayes awards. Ms. Ensler's best-selling book, also entitled .The Vagina Monologues, has been published by Villard Books. Her new book, Points of Reentry, will be published by Villard in 2001. The 1999 recipient of the Guggenheim Grant in Playwriting, Ms. Ensler is currently wriiing a screenplay on women in pris~m for Glenn Close. As part ofthe V -Day 2000 Col- lege Initiative, on February 14, a staged reading of The Vagina Monologues will be pre- sented by a mix of students and faculty members.. The performance is a national ef- fort to end sexual violence against women and to pro- claim Valentine's Day as the day to celebrate women and demand the end of abuse. A two dollar donation will is being requested to h\t~nefit the Schenectady YWCA housing unit. Tickets can be reserved in advance by e-mailing requests di- rectly to Shirley Dowd at dowds@union.edu. Tickets will also be sold this week in the Col- lege Center. Don'tmiss this amaz- ing opportunity to help women ev- erywhere while being entertained by yaur peers and professors. Men and women alike will surely ~ppre­ ciate and enjoy this pro-vocative presentation. Copies of Enskr' s original script are available for pur- chase in the Union College Book- store. Pick one up for yourself or your Valentine and lend your sup- port to a worthwhile theatrical pro- duction! Compiled by Lori Greene A&E Editor by Kristin2 Dorne Staff Writer Based on the Oscar Wilde play, ·An Ideal Husbandis a thoroughly enjoyabl~ movi~ ao Il!~ttex how you look at it. Not only does the · movie have a stell~r cast of char- . acters, but it is both witty and comi- cal at the same time. Rupert Everett, Jeremy Northam, Cate Blanchett, Minnie Driver, and Julianne Moore all give excellent perf'Ormances as very civilized uppeH~Lass Brits. AU five are very funny a:nd:~(lmpliment each other well. Ifl :had to pick one of the four that really -stands out, I would say that it ts Rupert Everett. He gives what I coasider to b€ the best performance of his career ill this movie. The premise of .An Ideal Hus- band is quite simple. Northam plays Sir RobertChilton, a wealthy · and highly respe.cted member of Parliament. Blanchett plays Gertrude, his lavely, upstanding wife. Their marriage# a :happy one. Chilton is put up on a pedestal by Gertrude and by soci~ty as being somewhat of an ideal, the \perfect man.\ It is an image that even the highly moral Chi1tvn can not live up to. There is more to him and his past than meets the eye. Moore plays Mts. Chea:vley, a wealthy and.diaboJical former fi- ance ()fEverett(Lord Arthur Gor- ing). She has inve:;ted in a. highly profitable, yet somewhat suspect scheme that she ltas invested in heavily. She wants Northam to en- dorse it She knows about a secret from his past that could ruin him. He sold Cabinet seats for large ' amounts of money .This is how he came about his fortune. Cheavley says that she will blow the whistle on him if he does not endorse her investment. Everett plays L()rd Goring who does a fabulous job of living 1he life of leisure. As Goring tells his father, \l only have serious con- versations on the first Tuesday.of every month from noou to four.\ He does not like to clutter his mind with important matters. lf it were .. up to Goring, life wouldbe one long vacation. He has never had to work for anything in his life. Rob\ ert tells him that this when Goring asks him why he does not regret his past actions. Cheavley proves that she means business when she tells Gertrude about Chilton's past transgres- sions. Gertrude is furious that her husband in not the ideal gentleman that she thought he was. She quickly throws him out of the house. At the same time, Goring is developing a relationship with Mabel (Driver), Chilton's younger sister. That relationship proves to be an amusing subplot in the movie. It is very enjoyable to watch Goring fall in love againsthis bet- ter judgement. It turns out that Cheavley still harbors some feelings for her former fiance. She makes a bet with Goring. She tells him that she will give him the letter in which Chilton sold the seat id he does not en- dorse her investment. But if Chilton does endorse the invest- ment 1:han Goring loses the bet and be has to many her. Goring agrees to the bet because he has stronger faith in his friends' convictions than he does in his own. The ending proves to be very suspenseful. As we wait for Chilton to announce his decision, the camera goes tot he faces of all the people whose fate invariably rests on the decision that Chilton makes. Goring is right to trust his friend's judgement because Chilton does end up making the right choice. The decision sets the stage for Mrs. Cheavley's depar- . ture from England. The best part about An Ideal Husband is the happy ending.

•.··'}' by .of on of a on to es- is to ton en- if for ton the the Arts & Entertainment '----~-----· ~- ....... _.-~ ... -: ... - ......... -- .. ---·· -··---·-· ...... - ---·-·..,... ....... ~··- ....... ~ -~··- .. -~ ·-- ~·- ·----.- ··- - -- .~·-- .. . .... ·. . ~ -.:.eh· · ·ea · · 1· ·~ L·· · · \ ~ • ~ ...•.. · rsa .• or •.. ove s J_~ rre , Katie Hais/CP Lori Greene and DC1n Danbusky rehearse under the direction ofProftssor Kelly Wondra. ·Colleen Sentant:e~ Spencer Christie, and Dan Kec'm in rehearsal. ti1ie 'VI11Jitl4 ~Q.Mfogues tfe~ty 14, .20QO 7:00pm i1loftf C!Utpe! 1 'The Vagina Monoklgues\ is part of the V-Day 2tX)() College Initiative~ a national effort to end sexual vio.ce against women and to proclaim Valentine-'s Day as. the day to celebrate wornen and demand the end of abuse. Tickets will be :Sold in the College Center the 7 1 11 tbrough the 9th for $2 or tickets can be res<:rvcd by <.\'mailing request~ to dowd'i@union.edu. The proceeds will be donated to the Schenectady YWCA hou.-rutg unit. Chinese New Year by Alexandra Lohse Staf!Writer January frrst marked the ending pf . a century and the. beginning of a . whole new era. While most people · are taking off their party hats and starting their resolutionsfor the New Year, the Chinese are just warming up and planning for ~heir special · night the Ch:inese New Year. Febru- ary 5 marked the beginning of the · Chinese New ¥ear. ChiJI.ese New Year · starts with the New Moon on the first day of the New Year and ends · on the full moon fifteen days later. The fifteenthday ofthe NewYear is called the Lantern Festival, which is celebrated at night with lantern dis- plays and children carrying lanterns ina parade. The Chinese calendar is based on a combination of lunar .and solar movements. The lunar cycle is about 29.5 days. In order to \catch up'' with :the solar calendar the Chinese insert an extra menth once every few years (sev~n years out of a nineteen-year cycle). This is the same as adding an extra day on leap year .. This is why, according to the solar calendar, the Chinese New Year falls on a differ- ent date each year. The year 2000 represents ~n Atllgry Drag<Jn. As the name suggests, there is a need to be ca.utious. Dragons are by nature animals of ,great power, and an Angry Dragon year will most l'ikely lead to some volatile situa- tions. However, it is not all bad,. as Angry Dragons are also seen as supportive, and it may wei11Je that some anger is justified, and from it will arise the rightittg of wrongs and the success of justice over injus- tice. There will be tension, and the constant possibility of things go- ing either way. It is not a year for making rash decisions, but rather, for sleeping on important issues and avoiding impulsive reactions. NewYear'sEveandNew Year's Day are celebrate'<i as a family af- fair, a time of reunion and than.ks- giving. The celehration was tr<~.di­ tionally highlighted with a .reli- gious ceremony ~iven in honor of Heaven and Earth, the gods of the household and t!J.e family ances- tors. The sacrifice to the ancestors, the most vital of all the rituals, united the living members with those who had p!!ssed away. It is a time for family. Blue Streak in Reamer Courtesy of Entertainment Weekly Martin Lawrence plays a phony cop in, Blue Streak. Too bad that doesn't stop hi:m ftom mugging. How lame have high-concept, no- brain comedies gotten? In Blue Streak, Martin Lawrence plays a burglar who gets out of prison and impersonates a cop so that he can retrieve his prize booty: a diamond the size of a chestnut, which is locked in a downtown Los Angeles police station. The concept is a smart-mouth black cop who's crazy enough to do anything. But just contrast Blue Streak with its obvi- ous progenitor, Beverly Hills Cop. In that movie, Eddie Murphy's words shot off ·in all directions. In Blue Streak, Lawrence's Miles Lo- gan fumbles around a bit as he at- . tempts to master the steely postures of an L.A. detective, yet the sur- rounding officers are such dim bulbs that it doesn't take much effort for him to fitin. BLue Streak is structured .as a fWef...out-of-water comedy, but Martin acts like more of a real cop 1hiin Murphy ever did. The. movie · actua.Uyprefersb:imthatway. Ifstoo m love with.authority, with formula, to explode into a wild-ass celebra- tion of a guy who trashes the rules. Lawrence was funny and fasci- nating when be u:nleashed his ag- gression in A Thin Line Between Love & Hate, and the movie, wmch he wrote and di.rected (impres- sively), was even ;a modest hit. But ever since then, he's been mealy and eager to please on screen. He seems trapped in his jug-eared, slightly clownish nervousness, like a sidekick suddenly shoved into the spotlight. Btue Streak pairs Lawrence with the likable Luke Wilson, who steals scenes by un- derplaying his quizzical blank- ness. As an underworld Cf()ny wh¢n Logan is forced to arrest, Dive Chappelle simmers a:nd writhes. It's the star who's QD au- topilot. Then aga.in, maybe these other actors would be too if they had to hold together a movie that can barely get a grip on its own concept. You can see this movie in the College Center Friday through Monday night at 8:00 and 10:()0. The Film Committee invites sttg- gestions for the .movies for next tenn, look for a sign and atte11d a meeting! A&E is loo~ for new writers and ediWrs! if you a.re a. freshman, soyhomore cr junior a.nd think you have the stuff dreams a.re made of come to a meeUfl1 Wnight at 8:00PM in CC303.

.... ~ l ' 1 ''Bi-lHf:ing Traditioiial Collegiate Athleticism into the 21st Centufy\ Men's Hockey Loses in Final Seconds Dartmo,uth Scores with 30 Seconds Left, L,eaves Union Speechless byD.J.Book Staff Writer This past week, the Skating Dutclnnen ofUnion College battled the Big Green frolllDartmo11th Col- lege last Thursday night, February 3, in a game that was rescheduled from Friday night, FebllUlry 4-~ This was the second meeting between the two teams 'tmi~ sea- son, with the Big Green winning the 1trst game by a sc~ C»f 5-1 at Dartmouth on January S. Stand- ing at 5-6-l in Conferen€:eplay. a win would return Union tea ~500 wimrin~ percentage fer the first time since the early stages o0f the ECAC season. The Dutchmen came oat ;flying as they pestered Dartmouth Fresh- man sensation Nick BoucbeJ with fourteen shots while onlyyielding four in the ftrst period. B()ucher turned aside each one of them. and the Big Green scored the peil.'iod's only goal with just undertlu-eemin- utes to play and took a {.;Q lead going into the fust intermission. After a scoreless second peniod in which Union again out-shot Dartmouth, this time by a collllt of 11-10, the Dutchmen entered the third period still down by a single goal. The first two periods of hockey provided many spectacular scor- ing chances off the sticks ofUnion players, but the Dutchmen still could not ftnd the back of tile net. Union hit the post four different times throughout the game, with Sophomore Forward Drew Taylor striking iron twice in two dif.feTent power-play chances withi.Iith;e first forty minutes of action. With about eleven minutes left in the game, however, Union finally knotted the score at 1-1 as Sopho- more Forward Jeff Hutchins ·One- timed a slap shot off a pass from Senior defenseman JeffSproartpast Boucher and into the net for a power-play goal. It was H:uiC\h:ins' third goal of the season. Two of his three goals were recorded on the power-play. Union, enjoying a five-on-four man advantage, had set up offensively in Dartmouth defensive territory. Sproat and Sophomore Defenseman Charles Simard were manning the point, and Hutchins was stationed at the .• ~ ·---~ Dell assessed three miuor penal- ties at this crucial time in the game, and Union unfortunately picked up two ofthe three. All three calls were quite controversial and very questionable. Nonetheless, the Big Green enjoyed a five-on-four power-play oppo~;tunity in the The Skating Datchmen :recorded thirteen more shots:ongo:a[ in the fina]period while.o:nly yielding tell; and the game total wa:s 3~-24 in Union's favor. Simard leod..all Union players with two minor Jlenalties and four total nrillutes m !tlle box Assistant Coacl! KeV!ia Patrick Coach Sneddon talks ~o his players prior to the Dartmouth game. top of the right fac~-off circle. Sproat sent a cross-ice pass to Hutchins, and he buried it low to the glove-hand side of Boucher, who had no chance in stopping the blast. The Skating Dntchmen contin- ued to ftre at will against Boucher in hopes oftaking the lead, but the freshman goaltender stood strong between the pipes for the Big Green. With two minutes and fiv:e sec- onds left in the game, referee Alex game's closing minutes, and Dartmouth converted by scoring the game-winning goal with only forty seconds left to play in regu- lation time. Senior Forward Ryl!h Campbell almost tied the game for Union at 2-2 with just twenty-five seconds left to play, but his redirection off ·of a Sproat pass from the far point went just wide of the net, and the Big Green held on to win the game, 2-1. For the third straight period, Union held the shot-advantage. wa.s asked to reflect on th.e game. He said, \We played hard, tllld we created a lot of scoring ()pportuni- tie:s. Unfortunately, (BtOucher) played well as he bas all S'(ason, and we just couldn' tcon'f~rt as of- ten as we should bave. We did well on face-offs, which we worked on in practice. Winning face ... offs equals possession time, an.d 1o win games we have to control tba.t. Our special teams has ll()t beem as suc- cessful as it was earlier in the year, so we •ve been emphasizi11g a lot on that as well. I thought we drove hard to the net, hut we just couldn't lmishoutplays. We ob- viously need to do - tpat to win. We're looking forward to nex:t weekend.\ Altho-ugh the contest was ·played Ollaweeknight, attendance was quite impressive at 1,448 fans at Achilles Rink. Union went one for six on tbeir power-play oppor- tunities, while the Big Green capi- talized 011 one of four man-advan- tage oppartunities. Union's con- ferenee\teoordfellto- 5-7 -l withttns loss. 'The team has eight ECAC gamesleftooplay, wfthfourathome and four on the road. The Skating Dutchmen will hopefully .take advantage of a home stand this coming weekend as they battle the Princeton Tigers on Friday, February 11, and the Yale Bulld()gs on Saturday, Febru- ary 12. Both games will be played at Achilles Rink, and will start at 7:00PM. These games can be heard live on WRUC 89.7 FM start- ing with a pre-game show at 6:45 PM each. night. The Dutchmen need your support as they fight for an ECAC playoff spot, so come out and cheer on the team! After the Whistle With an assist against Dartmouth College, Jeff Sproat regained tlte team lead in assists with twelve .•• JuniorCaptainJay Varady leads Union in penalty minutes with fifty-ope ••• Nine differentDutdunen.have recorded at least one power-play goal this season. ThreedifierentDutcbmenhave scored at least one shorthanded tally this season ••• Junior forward Jason Ralph still leads the team in goals with nine ... Sophomore goaltender Brandon Snee has started every game so far this season, a span of twenty-three straight contests. ., I ' .;_ 1 r /J

'' .;.L e just win. next t was con- will of a the played at he start- 6:45 fight Jay .Nine this team has this { 1 I I i r Sports GI11ll(&:rr.biensis • February 10, 2000 • Page 19 Shooting Dutchmen Drop Two in North Country Union Fails to Hang on to Halftime Leads by David C. Brooks Editor4n-Chief The Shooting Dutchmen could not hold onto halftime leads this weekend a:nd lost both games to Clarkson and St. Lawrence in the North Country. The Dutchmen have now lost three games in a row and six of their last eight. Head coach Bob Montana stated, \This was a big week for us. It was a chance to gain some ground, un- fortunately we couldn't.\ On Friday night, the Dutchmen held a25-19lead at halftime against Clarkson. The GoldeH Knights were able to outsmre Union 46-38 in tht: seeond half, en route to a close 65-6~ win. Clarkson shot 65% from the floor in the second half. Sophomore Aaron Galletta Jed the tt:am in scoring with 20 points, while classmate C.J. Rodgers had 11 points along with 10 boards. Union lost by less then five for the second game in a row and fifth time this season. On Saturday night, the Dutch- men tipped off against St. Lawrence. The Saints had lost to the Dutchmen earlier this season by one point and were seeking re- venge. At the half, Union led, .34 .. 25, andwith 12:28 to go. :in the game; Unionheld a nine-point advantage. However, in the second half, St. Lawrence hit 70% from the floor and were able to· heat the Dutch- q:ten, 68-63. The loss lowered the Dutclnuen' s record to 11-9 overall. The loss to lastplaceSt. Lawrence put Union in basement with a 2-7 record in the UCAA. The Dutchltlen have been ham- pered with injuries all season how- ever as. coach Montana said, \In- juries .are a part of athletics.\ The return of juniorDan Bamfmd, who sprained his ankle in January., is questionable. Possible ligament damage is slowly the rehabilitation and with four games left in the regu- li,ir season, his sea·son may be over. Union .is also without sophomore Dav c Musella who tore his A CL against St. Lawrence on January 14. \The key is to find what we can do better,\ saidMontana. \Iamtry- ing to flnd out what I cando better as a coach. This is a challenging time for the team, but we have great kids and we ~an end this slide.~' Galletta was tl1e·only Dutchman in double figures for scoring ashe had 25 p()ints and five boards. Unionsh()t 36% from the floor. The Dutchmen have four games remaining on their regular season schedule. Tlnee are league games, and the oth.ergame is a,gainst Wil~ Iiams. The UCAA tm.J.ma.ment is only three weeks away. Although Hamilton appears to have locked up first place and a first round bye in the tournament, the rest of the league is wide open. After Hamilton, Clarkson is in second place witlla5-5 record. In order to host a first round game, Union Wouldneedto fmish fourth in the UC' AA. Even at 2-7, the feat is not far fetched. Of the remaining three league games. Union has beaten Hobart by six, but lost to Skidmore by fOl!f as well as Rensselaer. Clearly the games have been close, and with all three games on their horne court, the Shooting Dutchmen have a perfect chance to end their season on a high note and host a first round tournament game. It will all begin this Satur- day as the Dutchmen host Skidmore for their second match- up in ten days. The game begins at 4:00inMemorial Field House and can be heard live on WRUC 89.7. Jeremy 1\lessler/CP Sophomore Aaron Galletta avoids a block to make the shot. Skating Dutchwomen Split Weeke-nd Games I • • ' •' · ~ I ! by Rachel Bukowski Sports Editor The lJnion College Skating Dutchwomenare currently on a roll and they put forth a tremendous effort this weekend against Trinity and WesLeyan College splitting the · games held at Achilles Rink on Sat- urday and Sunday. They defeated Trinity in a suspenseful4-3 victory, and then went on to lose to · Wesleyanby a disappointing loss, 3-1. Trinity commenced the scoring only a minute into the first period, slipping one by Senior Goalie Michelle Tardiff to· make the score 1-0. The rest of the period remained scoreless, andthe Dutchwomen en~ tered the second period fired up and ready to make up the defect that faced them. Only a. minute into the second, Cathie Larsen ignited wl1at would turn into a Dutchwoman victory · with an impressive g.oal assisted by Junior Cally Woodard. The Union defense held off any threatening Trinity attack. The rest of this pe- riod woald remain scoreless, hut Union was only warming up for the final peri<Jd of this close and excit- ing game. The two teams entered the third period tied at one, and Union took the initiative to break the deadlock at 6:59. Beth Gabriel scored her first . of two g()als for the night off of as- sists from Michelle Stein and Kirsten Owad. Trinity responded two minutes later to make the score 2-2. Union followed up with two more goals, the first unassisted by Arika Bjordekal and the second by Gabriel, assisted by Stein and Denema. Trinity could do nothing to stop the Dutch women attack but did manage one more goal with just 15 seconds left in the game to make the fmal score4-3. Tardiff recorded 45 saves f{)r the Dutchwomen, only letting in three goals from the Wesleyali offense The next day, Union took on a highly C()mpetitive team from Wesleyan. They opened up the scoring early with a g()a1 by Fresh- man, Ailsa. Cumming lLt 3: 14 in the first period. Larsen and Denise Webster are accre.dited with the assists. Wesleyan, however, scored the next three goals and Union, unfortunately, could not catch up. The game ended in a 3-1 loss for the Dutchwomen.This weekend, the women will travel north to Vermont to take on Middlebury and Venn()nt Colleges, and then they will enjoy two home games the following weekend. Tile Skating Dutchwomen battle Wesleyan behind the net.

drove just ob- Win. was fans one con- home of a d the layed at be start- fight come Nine I this have this hree I ·I :_J· ... . ; i Sports Climu.arbien!Siis • February 10, 2000 • Page 19 Shooting Dutchmen Drop Two in North Country Union Fails to Hang on to Halftime Leads by David C. Brooks Editor-in-Chief The Shooting Dutchmen could not hold onto halftime leads this weekend and lost b()th games to Clarkson and St. Lawrence in the North Country. The Dutchmen have now lost three games in a row and six of their last eight. Head coach Bob Montana stated, \This was a big week for us. It was a chance to gain some ground, un- fortuna~ely we couldn't.\ On Friday night, tl1e Dutchmen held a 25-19lead at halftime against Clarkson. The Golden Knights \Wre able to outs~: ore lT Hi on 46-38 in thl' s~cond half, 1:11 route to a ~:los~ 6:\-63 \\'111. Clarkson shot 65% from the f1oor in the second half. Sophomore Aaron G:.11lena led th~ team in sconng \ntll 20 points, while classmate C.J. Rodgers had I I points along with I 0 boards. l 'nion lost by less then five for the second game in a row and fifth time this season. On Saturday night, the Dutch- men tipped off against St. Lawrence. The Saints had lost to the Dutchmen earlier this season by one point and were seeking re- venge. At the half, Union led, 34 - 25, and with 12:28 to go in the game, Union held a nine-point advantage. However, in the second half, St Lawrence hit 70% from the floor and were able to beat the Dutcb.- men,68-63. The loss lowered the Dutchmen's record to 11-9 overall The loss to last place St. Lawrence put Union in basement with a 2-7 record in the UCAA. The Dutchmen have been ham- pered with injuries all season how- ever as coach Montana said, \In- juries are a part of athletics.\ The return of junior Dan Bamford, wh<J sprained his ankle in January, is questionable. Possible ligament damage is slov .. ly the rehabilitation and with four games left in the regu- lar season, his season may be over. Cnion lS also without sophomore Dave Musella who tore Ius ACL against St. Lawrence on January 14. 'The key is to find what we can do betler,\ said Montana. \I am try· ing to find out what I can do better as a coach. This is a challenging ti.me for the team, but we have great kids and we can end this slide.\ Galletta was the only Dutchman in double figures for scoring as he had 25 points and five boards. Union shot 36% from the floor. The Dutchmen have four games remaining on their regular season schedule. Three are league games, and the other garne is against Wil- liams. The UCAA tournament is only three weeks; away. Although Hamiiton appe~rs to have locked up first place ancl a first round bye in the tournament, the rest of the league is wide open. After Hamilton, Clarkson is in second place with a 5-5 record. In order to llost a first round gall'le, l'nion would need to finish fourth in the UCAA. Even at 2-7, the feat is not far fetched. Of the remai~ting three league games, l'nion has beaten Hobart by six, but lost to Skidmore by four as well as Rensselaer. Clearly the .gdmes have been close, and with a H three gaml's on their home court, the Shooting Dutchmen have a perfect chan.ce to end their sea son on a high note and host a first round tournament game. It will all begin this Satur- day as the Dutchmen host Skidmore for their second match- up in ten days. The game begins at 4:00 in Memori;al Field House and can be heard liv-e on WRUC 89.7. Jtremy :vlesslerfCP Sophomore Aaron Galletta avoids a block to make the shoJ Skating Dutchwomen Split Weekend Games by Rach.el Bukowski Sportr Editor The Union College Skating Dutchwomen are currently on a roll and tt'1ey put f()rth a tremendous effort this weekend against Trinity and Wesleyan College splitting the games held at Achilles Rink on Sat- urday and Sunday. They defeated Trinity in a SUS])enseful4-3 victory, ' and then went on to lose to Wesleyan by a disappointing loss, 3-1. Trinity comfll!;;IH.:ed the scoring only a minute iJ1i1l the fir.;;t period. sl ipplilg oflt: fl) St'tlJOI (joa !tc !\tJLhdk Tard1fTto make the scmc 1-0. TI1e rest of till' penod remained scoreless. and thL· Dutdw.omen cn- tn~d the sect1r1d pt.:noJ fm·d up and ready to rnake up the defect wele,t:-t!t!J.<k··~~ that faced them Only a minute into the second. Cathie T.arsen i g.n ited what would tum into a DutL.-h\1 onl.Hl ,·ichH} 'lle\1\f?~~~g~tfi~~!t®tg;jf~lltnleifh$d>j with an impres~ ive goa I assisted hy Junior Cally W()odard. The Union defense held &ff any threatening 'Trinity attack. The rest of this pe- riod would remain scoreless, but Union was only warming up for the final period ofthis dose and excit- inggame. The two teams entered the third period tied at oJJe, and Union took th.e initiative to break the deadlock at 6:59. Beth G11hriel scored her frrst of two goals fo['the night off of as· sists from Michelle Stein and Kirsten Owad. Trinity responded two minutes later to make t!J.e score 2-2. Union followed up with two more goals, the first unassisted by Arika Bjordekal and the second by Gabriel, assisted by Stein and Denema. Trinity could do nothing to stop the Dutch women attack but did manage one more goal with just 15 seconds left in the game to make the fmalscore4-3. Tardiffrecorded 45 saves for the Dutch women, only letting in three goals from the Wesleyan offense The next day, Union took on a highly competitive team from Wesleyan. They opened up the scoring early with a goal by Fresh- man Ailsa Cumming at 3:14 in the first period. Larsen and Denise Webster are accredited with the assists. Wesleyan, however, scored the next three goals and Union, unfortunately, could not catch up. The game ended in a 3-1 loss for the Du tchwomen. This weekend, the women will travel r~.orth to Vermont to take on Middlebury and Vermont Colleges, and then they will enjoy m·o home games the following weekend. '{' ''f . . ~' <\' '{;' ::· ~' c• ,\. ':/ ;:· .(:~ -~~ ~-'\ ,\., . ' ~ ' '*'-::.:· . ~- . Elizabftb Daigle/CP The Skating Dutchwomen battle Wi!sleyan behind the net. ---------------------· . --- -------

''Bringing Traditional Collegiate Athleticism into the 21s·t Century'' A Quick Look at. this Week's Scor.es ••. , .Hockey .- - ·'!'\ Basketban · ' Dartniouth.2 Union 1 Clarkson 65 Union 63 St. Lawrentlf69 Union 63 Women's·· Urdon4Trinity 3/Wesleyan3 Union 1 Union 76 Clarkson 65/ . St. Lawrence 76 Union 67 Swimming St. Lawrence 123 Union 119 Union lUlSt. Lawtence85 Men's Hockey Loses in Final Seconds Dartmouth Scores with 3 0 Seconds Left, Leaves Union Speechless by D.J.Book Staff Writer This past week, the Skating Dutchmen ofUnion College battled the Big Green frol!lDartmouth Col- lege last Thursday night, February 3, in a game that was rescheduled from Friday night, February 4. This was the second meeting between the two teams this sea- son, with the Big Green winning the f:u:st game by a score of 5-1 at Dartmouth on January 8. Stand- ing at 5-6-l in Conference play, a win would return Union to a .500 winning percentage for the first time since the early stages of the ECAC season. The Dutchmen came out flying as they pestered Dartmouth Fresh- man sensation Nick Boucher with fourteen shots while only yielding four in the first period. Boucher turned aside each one of them, and the B1g Green scored the period's only goal v. Ilhjust under three min- utcs to piay and look a 1-0 lead gmng IIllo the rnst IntcrmiSSIOil. A tkr J scoreless ~ccond penod m '' hiLh l Ilion agalll l>UI-!>hot l>artrnouth. tlus lilllt: hy a count of II- 10, the Dutdtmcn entered the tlllfd penod qj]J down by a >ingk goal. !'he F1r~t l\\o po.:nod~ of hockt:} pru\ JLkd nuny -.,prctacular ~cor­ mg chJuces off the sticks ufCniun players. but the Dutchmen still could not find the back of the net. Umun hit the post four different t1mes throughout the game. with Sophomore Forward Drew Taylor strikmg Iron twice in two different power-play chance-s within the first forty mmutes of action. With about eleven minutes left in the game, however, Union finally knot1ed the score at 1-1 as Sopho- more Forward Jeff Hutchins one- timed a slap shot off a pass from Senior defenseman Jeff Sproat past Boucher and into the net for a power-play goa 1. It was Hutchins· third goal of the season. Two of his three goals were recorded on the power-play. Union, enjoying a five-on-four man advantage, had se1 up offensively in Dartmouth defensive territory. Sproat and Sophomore Defenseman Charles Simard were manning the point, and Hutchins was stationed at the Dell assessed tluee minor penal- ties at this crucLal time in the game, and Union ul!t'ortunately picked up two of the tllree. All three calls were quite cO>nttroversial and very questionable. Nonetheless, the Big Green enj()yed a five-on-four power-play OJlportunity in the The Skating Dutchmen recorded thirteen more shots on goal in the fmal period while only yielding ten, and the game total was 38-24 in Union's favor. SimardledallUnion players with two minor penalties and four total minutes in the box Assistant C()ach Kevin Patrick Me~ann Denefrio!CP Coach Sneddon talks to his playtrs prior to the Dartmouth game. t()p of the right face-off circle. Sproat sent a cross- ice pass to Hutchins, and he buried it low to tl1e glove-hand side of Boucher. who had no chance in stopping the blast. The Skating Dutchmen contin- ued to fire at will against Boucher in hopes of taking the lead, but the freshman goaltender stood strong between the pipes for the Big Green. With two minutes and five sec- onds left in the game, referee Alex game's closing minutes, and Dartmouth cO>n-,erted by scoring the game-wi1111ing goal with only forty seconds leftto play in regu- lation time. Senior Forward Ryan Campbell almost tied the game for Union at 2-2 with just I:W'enty-five seconds left to play, bmt his redirection off of a Sproat pass from the far point went just wide af the net, and the Big Green hei<lmn to win the game, 2-1. For the thi;rd straight period, Union held the: shot-advantage. was asked to reflect on the game. He said, \We played hard, and we created a lot of scoring opportuni- ties. Unfortunately, (Boucher) played well as he has ail season, and we just couldn \t convert as of- ten as we should have. We did well on face-offs, which we worked on in practice. Winning face-offs equals possession time, and to win games we have to control that. Our special teams has not been as suc- cessful as it was earlier in the year, so we've been emphasizing a lot on that as well. I thought we drove hard to the net, but we just couldn't fmish our plays. We ob- viously need to do that to win. We're looking forward to next weekend.\ Although the contest was played on a weeknight, attendance was q11ite impressive at 1 ,448 fans at Achilles Rink. Union went one for six on their power-play oppor- tunities, while the Big Green capi- talized on one <lffour man-advan- tage opportunities. Union's con- ference- record fell te 5-7-1 with this loss. The team has eight ECAC games left to play, with four at home and four on the road. The Skating Dutchmen will hopefully take advantage of a home stand this coming weekend as they battle the Princeton Tigers on Friday, February 11, and the Yale Bulldogs on Saturday, Febru- ary 12. Both games will be played at Achilles Rink. and will start at 7:00PM. These games can be heard live on WRl JC 89,7 FM start- ing with a pre-game show at 6:45 PM each mght. The Dutchmen need your support as they fight for an ECAC playoff spot, so come out and cheer on the teamr After the Whistle With an assist against Dartmouth CoiJege, Jeff Sproat regained the team lead in assists with twelve .•. Junior Captain Jay Varady leads Union in penalty minutes with fifty-one ... Nine different Dutchmen have recorded at least one power-play goal this season. Thrt!e different Dutchmen have stored at least one shorthanded tally this season .•• Junior forward Jason Ralph still leads the team in goals with nine •.• Sophomore goaltender Brandon Snee has started every game so far this season, a span of twenty-three stralgbt contests. '\ :,:1~: ·~· ., ,.,. I !~f; ·r .\ :.·J· ., \, ! ' ' n v ( 1' 11 ~ ( s r l t 1:

Page\ 20 • February 10, 20()0 • C!1.om~ert~ia · Final Exam Scnedule Final EXam Schedule Willter 2000 810*046*01 BIO*l30*01 CER*035*01 CHM*l82*01 \CliN*l2l*Ol. CLS*02l*Ol. \E:C0*041*01 E:CO*l34*-01 EER*040*01 EER*l43*0l. ESCll'Q22*01 ESC*022A*Ol GR.E:*130*01 S:S'.1'*013*\01 liS'.1'*.014*01 8:3'.1'*035*01 ·liS'.1'*036*01 a:S'.1'*036*02 a:S'l'*l4B*•n ·MTH*02·8*0J. M'l'll*l40*0l PJCl*Oi6*0l PSC*067*01 PilY*0-38*0J. PS\Y*046*0J. SOC*l3·8 *OJ. OCJ ~ 9:30-11:..30 AM Moleeul.!L:r Bio of Cel.l 'V!/Lah Intro to Psychobiology An;l.lila.l P:hysiology w/Lah Water Re~ou:rces & Eovironment Protein lliochE:!Dlistry w/Lah :l:nter:Diediate Chinese 2 History ~f Greece Mic:roeco-:ncmic Azlalysis· Filiijm.cia.J; Analysis Ci:rcu,its & Systems w/Lal:! Electrom.agnetic Engineering 1 Mechanics II:Material Seience Mechanics- IIa:Mater:ial Science Homer: 'l\he Odyssey His.tory .of US tc C±vii War ·History of US si-nce Civil war Histoiiy of Europe 1 History of .Europe 2 History o:f Europe 2 'l'he Law: English Origins - 1\i76 ProbabiLity Linear A.l:gebra Physics(Lif.e Sciences 2 w/Lab R;1ee & A;mer Political System DeveJ;.op~mental Psycho:Logy J:nt::ro te> Psychobiology Africa:Social & Demographic Monday, March 13., 2000 - 1:30-3:3.0 PM Mli-*034*0i 19th Cen,tury European Art CSC*136*0:l A4vancetl Progrcunming Tecqnique EC0*090*0J. Economic: Internships EC0*13.2*0:l. Labor Economics ESC*013*0:l. Intro teo Programming I ESC*0-13*02 Intro te> Programming. J: ESC*013*03 rntro te> Programming I ESC*013*04 J:ntro teo Programming I E'·Rll'*120*0:l. J:ntermecliate French 1 GE:R.*l2l*O:l. Intermediate Ge:rman 2 IrL*010*02 JPN*l26*0:L ME:R.*030*0:l. Mrll*OSB*O:l PIIL*174*0:l PllL*27'4*5.J. PIIY*066*Dl SOC*048*01 Basic :It:.alian 1 Business Japanese I Dynamics of Systems w/Lab Pro.gra.D!I!1ing with Mat:.hematica .Biomedical Ethics Biomedical Ethics Relativi.ty/Gravity/Cosmolqgy Populati.on and Society Monday, March 13, 2000 - 4:30-6.:3.0 PM CSC*242*5:1. Analysis. of Comp Algorithms EE:R.*220*5J. State Space Analysis ME:R.*260*5J. Nuclear Engineering & Technlgy SPN*Oll*02 Basic Spanish 2 Monday, March 13, 2000 ~ 7:00-9:00 PM GMI*212*5:1. Fi~ AnaLysis & Decision Makng GMI*225*5i Marketi~g Management and Strat GMI*316*5:l. Special Topics in Accounting ESS*225*5J. Mktg r. l«g:mt Health Care Sys Jo'E:R*200*51 Elastici.ty Tuesday, March 14, 20·00 9:30-11:30 AM AAE*Ol2*0J. AM.l1*012*0J. BI0*010*02 BIO*Ol2*02 BI0*147*0:l. CEl!.*l54*D:l. CIIM*l50*0:1. Clm*01l*O:t CSC*118*0:t EC0*012*0:l. ECO*l39*0l EE:R.*ilB*Ol EGL*024*Dl EGL*056*0:L EGL*076*0:t ESC*02S*Ol FRll'*l2l*Ol GEO*Oll*OJ. GRX*01l*Ol HST*054*0l :I!fl'*Ol2*0:1. LA\l'*01l*OJ. Mrll*OlO*Ol MT:H*013*()l Mrll*03l*Ol PS\Y*OlO*D:2 ES\Y*030*01 PS\Y*033*01 :RITS*Oll*01 SPN*011*0:2 Intro Art History - 2 Language of Music Heredit~/Evol/Ecology w/Lab Cells & Organisms w/Lab IInmunology w/Lall Geo-EnvLronmntl Engg Des w/Lab Physical. Chemistry ::1. w/I.ab Basic Cainese 2 Digital Computer Design w/I.ab Introduction to Economics ·Public Finance Digital Design w/La!> Major American Authors 2 Shakespeare a£ter 1~00 Modern Anerican Novel Electric: Circuits w}Lab J:ntermediate French 2 Earth, ~ife Thru Time w/Lab PrincipLes of Gr.eek 2 Russia Ln the II!lperial Age Int Matl:l/Physics 2 w/I.ab PrincipLes of r.atin 2 Calculus 1 AP CalcllllUS Linear A.igebra &: Di:ff Eqiiation Intro to Psychology Personal.i ty Psych oE Memory • Thinking Basic :Rilluian 2 Basic Spanish 2 'J:uesday, March 14, 2()00- 1:3.0-3:30 PM AAlf*035*0l ACC*OlO*Ol AM.'U*Ol6*0.l AN'T*043*01 EI0*040*0l :Sl:0*160*01 CE:R*OSO*Ol CE:R*129*01 CLS*026*01 EC0*012*0-4 EC()*042*01 EE:R.*133*Sl EGL*044*01 GE0*020*0l HS'T\'022*01 HST*080*01 ESC*013*01 PSC*139*01 ES\Y*Ol0*03 PSY*035*0l PSY*050*01 WS'T*054*D1 WS'I'*129•01 VenetiaD Painting in Itl Renai Survey of Accounting Music '.l'l:aeory l Anthropology of Religion Fundamentals of Biochemistry Histology & Organology w/Lab Construction for Humanity Analysis & Design o:f Structure Classical Literatur-e Introduction to Economics Macro Taeory &: Polic::y Communication Circuits w/Lab Enlighterument ~ Romanticism Mineralogy w/Lab Civil War & Reconstxuction Construction for Humanity J:ntro to Pol.itica1 'Thought Seminar:·Politic·al Theory J:ntro to Psychology rndustxi.al/Organization Psych Educational Psychology Civil. War & Reconstruction Seminar: Political 'Theory !lorton, if. s. Wa;l.sse, C. Ji'le:ishman, L. Sll.OW< P. P()X, R. Farry,. M.M. Hol:Lnalin, k. 'Yaisawa:rng, S, La~d!J, B. ~pinall.i, J. Cl:lang, Y. M~lil.lci·, J!. Mi.l:i.l.lo, J!!, Mil.ce-, s. Miller, A.'l\. F.ef'fer, A. Hansan, E .. llerk, s. Wa.lkar, M. Halliday·, I? • Barbanei, if. 'Taylor, A. DI!!!Battista, N, Weiner, T. St:.anb.ope, r.. We±ss.e, c. BeneEo, K.·D. Ogawa, D·. Wi.l~iamf3., 'G. Fried, -H. Saner, M.F. AL1!1Stead, L. Hannay, D. liedri.ck, J.J!l. DiTur:si, D.J. Cll.ilc:oat 1 A. M. Hilllllll'\ Ehsani, X Federici, J. Kl:lan, Y. .Ap.derson, 'I'. Fairchild, w. Baker, R. Baker, R. Marr, J.M. BeneEo, K.D. lie:mmemdinger, D Fa tic:, V. Wi.cks, F. :Moyano, P. :Aahman, T.D. Des.arkar, C. Arnol.d,. D. 'Manna, v. Pollack, L. O£Jawa,. ·D. McMullen, D. Pyte·]., B. Tobiessen, P. La.uzon, R. Laplante, c. ADderson, J. Feng, J.P. Traver, C . Tomljanovich, M. McCarty, '.1'. Traver, c. Sl.ade, L. Stevenson, R. Pavlic, E. Cbang, Y. Batson, C.R. Garver, J.I. Mace,. S. Berk., s. Ba.rbanel/:Reich Scullion, J. S Taylor, A. :Roy, R. Johnson, B. Beniack, s . DonaLdson, G. Blllrns, D.J. l!cuhamova, Y. S. Moy<!J1o, P. Matthew, L. Canavan, M. TIUXI., H. Gmelch, s. Cbu-r:.aGra:ff, Q. Smith, G. Sargant/Gba1y Mafi, M. Toher, M. Motahar, E. Rafferty, )«.c. Hass:ib, E. Heinegg, P. Hol1ocher, K. Forougbi, A. R. Sa.rgent/Gbal.y Brown, c. Marso, L.J. Ral>onis, A. Nydegger, R, Spaul.ding, D. Foroughi, A •. R. Marso, L. J .• OLIN ~04 BAIL 100 B.iliL 312 BUTR 300 STZII 106 HUMN 213 HUMN 019 SSCJ: 104 SSCJ: 014 OLIN 306 NWSE ll:6 BAIL 20i BAIL 201 OLIN 305 HUMN lli5 BAIL 207 COLC AUD SSCI 103 OLIN 115 ARTS 215. NWSE 210 BAIL 102 NWSE 114 HUM:N 11:2. BAIL 30.0 BAIL 100 BU'l'R 109 ARTS 215 OLIN 106 ~AIL 20-1 ARTS 10.9 OLIN 306 OLIN. 307 NWSE 114 OLIN 102 HUMN 014 SSCI 012 HUMN 008 HUMN 010 NWSE 222 OLIN 107 HUMN 116 HUMN 116 llWSE 303 SSCI. 103 NWSE 116 NWSE 114 NWSE 222 HUMN 008 HtlMN 014 SSCI 012 OLIN 11:5 HUM:N 019 NWSE 222 ARTS 215 ARTS 313 BAIL 207 BAIL 201. SSCI 012 STZH 106 OLIN 106 SSCI lOSE OLIN 306 SSCI 014 SSCI 103 OLIN 306 HUMN 117 HUMN 112 NWSE 114 NWSE 210 AR'l'S 210 OLIN 307 HUMN 010 SSCI 104 NWSE 1J.2 HUMN Oi6 BAIL 106 BAIL 102 OLIN 107 BA:rL 312 BAIL 300 BUTR 109 HUMN 012 HUMN 008 AR'l'S 215 BAIL 106 AR'l'S 313 STZH 106 SSCI 012 :NWSE 116 OLIN 106 BUTR 109 HUMN 116 :JiUMN 019 ssct 103 NWSE 222 HUMN 115 OLIN 332 SSCI 014 OLIN 106 sscl: 104 SSCI lOS BAIL 300 BAIL 312 BAIL 100 SSCI 014 SSCI lOS http://concordy.union.edu ENS*lOO*Ol ESC*069*52 Data structures Computer Graphics Arti fieial In tell.±ge:ac;:a CO!JlPutex Bas(ld Co:atro;L SY!I Environmental Studies· 'ropics Engip.eerin9 EconOJDics 'Tuesday, March 14, 2000 - 7:0.0-9:00 PM GMI*210*51 FinanCial Accounting · GMI*226*·51 Marketing Research Techniques· GMl*271*51 Leg;~.l/Tax Aspcts of Pa~tnrs!).,tp liSS*256*Sl Group ~rae A~: Sam & .P:t;actcx~~ STA*202*S1 Statistical Methods .Wednesday, March 15, 2000. ~ 9.:.30-,-I~:30.AM AM!J*0.21*01 Beethoven t:o Bernstein ANT*026*01 Youtll. r. -Popular CV.J:tuxe EC0*012*02 Introd,uction to li;ccnomi.cs EGL1r019*'01 ~ajor English A1,1tl)oz::s l ENS*033*'0l Energy :I ESC*021*01 Mech.;lilics I w/Lab F.RN'*011*01. Basic Frencl:l 2 FRN'*132*0.l Gii;R*OlO*Ol IJS'l\*113*01 JPH*l2:l,*Q1 I.A'l'*137*0l MER*050*01 MER:*062*-01 M'l'l£'1!057*01 -MT!i*099*Dl M'l'l£*124*01 PHY*042*0l P~*046li:Ol PHY'*051*01 PSC*-048*·01 PSY*032*01 PSY*ll47*01 R.US*12l*O.l ,SPN*010*0l SPN*l2l*Ol SPN*l21*02 Survey:French. ltit 2 Basic German l Popular Cul.ture & Amer Hs·t :Cntermediate japanese 2 La-tin Epic Heat Transfer Analysis Thermodynamics 2 Game Theory Intro: Logic l'c Set 'llheory Geometry Ideas of Mo~ern Physics Principles -of Sound & Music Int ~odern ~hysi~s w/Lab East Europe Politics & Justice Sensation & Perception Health Psycbology :Intermediate Russian 2 Basic Spanish 1 Intermediate Spanish 2 InteDmediate Spanish 2 t<lednesdav .. March 15, 2000 -:- 1:30-3:30 PM AN'I'*010*01 Cul.tural Anthropology ANT*010*02 Cultural Anthropalogy EER*060*0l Discrete S'y~tems w}t.ab ITI.*l20*01 MER*035*01 InteDmediate J:tal.ian ::1. Engineering R.eli<l.bi1ity MER*160*01 '.l'he~l/Fluid Sys Desi!J;n w/Lab MTH*OllA*01 Calculus with Preca1c 1 ldTH*Oll£1*01 lftH*011B*02 ldTH.*012*01 !dTH*012*02 MTB*Ol.S*Ol ldTH*015*02 MTH*017*0l ldTH*058*01 PSC*011*01 Cal~ulus w~~h Precalc 2 Calculus wit::h Preca1c 2 Cal.culus 2 Calculus 2 Calculus 3 Calculus 3 Calculus 4:Xntegra.l Vector Appls of -Math to Eco 1 :rntro to ~erican Politics Wednesday, March 15, 2000 - 7: 00-9~00 PM GMI*217*51 Financial M~agement GMI*221*51 Managerial Economdcs GMJ:*251*51 Managing People &:-Te<lli!S in Org HSS*280*51 Hlth Sys Adm, Planning & Pol STA*201*52 Intro to Pxobabil.ity & Stati.st Thursday, March 16. 2000 - 9:.30-11:30 AM BI0*010*0l Heredity/Evol/Ecology w/Lab BJ:0*012*0l. Cells l'c Organisms w/Lab BI0*150*0l Evcl.utionary BioLogy BIO*l54*01 Developmental Biology w/Lab CER*132*01 Reinforce.;! Concrete Desg w/Lab CER*l6:0*0l '.J:ransportat:io:i1. Eilgg w/Lab FRN*010*01 :Basic French 1 -GER*Ol1*0l Basic Ge~n 2 GER*Ol1*02 :Basic German 2 HEB*Ol1*01 Basic Hebrew 2 HST*049*01 I'.J:L*010*01 JPN*01l*Ol MER*033*01 MTH*l27*0l !?SY*010*0l !?SY*025*01 SPN*011*01 Europe Between Two Wars Basic Italian 1 Basic Jap.,.ne~e 2 Fluid Mechanics E w/L~ Numerical Methods Intro to Psychology Experiment~1 Psych. w/Lab Basic Spanisb. 2 Wi1l:l.lUIIS.. G. Spal.lholil:-, L, C]len./Nattheyes Gaj'j IE; J. HeJ.Inf.!:r., W. Grig!:JS, I!'. Artlold.1 D. Desarkar, c. Vi!l.l.e, It. KJ:eillba.uer, R· .sctm,ee, J. Mcl!olu.l l.eil , D • Co:ccll::~, :I. R. ,ried\ H. Stev-e13son1 R. Shanebroo~, J. Keat, ,If, D,. Chilcoat., A. M. Tholilas, w,. Kel.le;c,te:i::, S. Sterng!kss, J, Khan., Y, Hol.l:m~, A. So'l:il, 1!,. Wic::k::s, F. Zw:icJter1 w. JoiiD.sciJ., B, Roy, .:e. DeBatt:ist~, N. :Khosropour, R. MqWb.i:rter, J. HLd.ope, R. Sant:.ana, M. J;tieg, .'r. S • JJash.ai~~ova, Y. s. Onm.a., M .•. c;;uma.cho-,P1atexo, I.. Mart:.inez, V. Fo::x, J~W- Fo::x, J. w. Gajj.a:r:r .J. Feder:ic:i, J, Bl:i.nnJ M.P. Ancier:so:i'L, A.M. Re:ynoJ:ds , P.R. ZiJIIIIlexma:n, It. z iJIIIIlexmail, lt . Cervo:ca 1 D.P. Cerv-o:ca1 D. P. Bick::,. 'I'. Zw:ic]ter, W. Ni<efield, S. Fa:irchi.ld, w .. Oxley, z .M. AliJnoanr '.l'.D. LaDbr::i.no:s, J. Nyciegger, R. V. Ma:ru:~a , V • Sellmee, J. Br<!wa, G. Rice, S.E. Bo:yer, J. Bo--yer 1 'B • Maf:i., M. Wolfe, F.A. Ba:t:son,.. c. R , KeJ.l.emter, S. KeJ.Lemcer, S. Al.Dog ,. M. lia:nse:n, E. Feder:ic:i , J. Wojno\'i'i M. Siianellrook, J. Ce:rvo:zie, D.P. Ri~g, T.S. BIUUS I i>. J. Ma:rtinez , V. l!t1IIN' 019 OLI:N 307 $TZil:t :1;06 NWSE 116 OLZ:N 110 <lLI:;Jf 332 llUMN 112 O~Il{ 307 .lJOM]l' 116 liUM:N o:u: <JL:i:ll' 306 A:R'r'S 215 SSC!:t 012 SSC!I .104 HtlliN 008 NKSE 116 liWSE 20'5 l-!tMN 014 1ttMN 016 1ttMN 019 BAI:L 207 ~ 010' KT.lliiN U3 liWSE ll.4 NWSE 222 :SAI:L 106 BAI:L 102 BAI:L .104 OLitN. 1Q7 NWSE 112 NWSE 3.28 AR'r.S 109 BAI:L 201 BAI:L 3L2 H'CJMN. 012 OLI:N 106 S'XZ:.H 106 AR'I'S 2.10 OLI:N 115 OLI:N 115 NWSE 114 H'CJMN. 116 OLI:N 307 NWSE 205 BA~r. 106 BAI:L 207 BAI:L 207 SSCI 1.04 SSCJ; 104 BAI:I'. 1.04 BAI:I'. 104 Hm5N' 01·9 OLI:N' 107 SSCI 012 H'tlMN' 014 Ktn!N'· 117 H'tlMN' 116 H'tlMN' 019 ()LEN' 307 BAI:L 207 ltti1m 019 OLI:N' 10.6 NWSE 116 BtrrR. 109 ()LI:N' 102 SSCI ·012 SSCJ; 014 SSGI - 014. -Hlilom 016 SSCI 1.03 ·ltliMN'· 117 HtlMN' 010. NWSS 222 lttlMN' 014 BAl:I. 312 Blll:L 300 l!tJMN' 008 Call For Papers EphemerisUnion College's Undergraduate Philosophy Journal Publication Date: Spring Term 2000 EPHEMERIS ,proposes to harvest exceptional u11dergraduate writing grounded in the distinct value and interest of philooophical endeavors from all areas of the philosophiGaldiscipline, including,bat not limited to~ political theory, metaphysics, ethics,logic,epistemology,religion, and the philosophy of the mind. Submissions should take the form of the essay, article, or short note. We will not accept compositions resembling plays, dialogues, or poems. The editorial board of EPHEMERIS can offer somebelp toward preparing work for publication; it reserves the rigpt to suggest modification to any piece of writing.

SpQrt~ .·· CII~.bim9i9 • February 10,2000 • Page 21 In The Paint: The Latest in College Basketball by Ben Yaffee Sta.ffWriter :Earlier this season, injured Michigan State point guard Mateen Cleaves watched from the sideline as Michigan State played inspired ball, and beat the likes of UNC and Kansas. He was also fo reed to watch as his t~am struggled, and suffered losses to T:exas, Arizona, and then a shocker to Wright State. Cleaves watched in agony and couldn't help hut wonder where Michigan State would be with him in the lineup. 1'his past week,. the nation saw Just how dominating the,. \Cleaves led Spartans,\ can be. In games against heated rivals Mjchigan, and. the defending national cham- pion UConn Huskies, Michigan State was unstoppable. Cleaves br()ught his rugged style of play an.d Michigan State ran over both o.pponents. Against Michigan, M<>rris Peterson, scored a career high 32 points and added 10 re- b~unds as the Spartans roli~d over the Wolverines 82-62. Cleaves looked impressive in his eighth garne back fmm the foot injury, swring 19 and adding 6 assists .. Michigan played without their star freshman Chris Crawford, but even his pres~nce may not have helped the Wolverines against the more seasoned anq tale~ted Spartans. In a game many Spartans had circledon their calendar, Michigan State h()sted the Com'lecticut Hus- kies tbis past Saturday. Last year UConn ha:ndedJ:y defeated the Spartans duri:ilg the regular season before lllak:ing their championship run. Michigan State would like the reverse to happen this year. The Spartans wasted no time jumping on UCotm. Charlie:Sellopened·the game with a three pointer and State never looked back. The Spartans controlled the game, leading by as many as 34, before winning 85-66. Michig.an State out hustled UConn, forcing turnovers and win- ning the battle on the glass by 14:· · Their defense led to several fast breaks and accounted.for20 points. It also prevented UConn's lethal three-point marksman, Albert Mouring, from getting on track, largely because Michigan State al- ways had a man in his face. After seeing the Spartans dismantle their recent opponents, fans no longer wonder how good they can be. As long as they can remain healthy, and maintain the level of energy they displayed against l)Conn, Cleaves and the rest of the Spar- tans will be rewarded. Get that Shot out ofHere He was supposed to be doing this at Wake Forest, but Arizona coach Lute Olson isn't complain- ing. Olson welcomed the 7'2'' cen- ter Loren Woods with apen arms, when he decided to transfer J,e .. cause he couldn't handle the pres- sureoffollowingTitnDuncan. He was sick of being in Duncan's shadow and he was frustrated by tlie physical play in the ACC. Wake Forest's loss has. been the Wild- cats gain. Woods has come into his own this season, and is gain- ing a reputation of his own. He is no longer afraid to rrtix it up inside and is learning to be more physi- cal. His aggressive play has made him a new player and this past Save 50% to 75% everyday on the brands you wear Come check out what a true outlet is all about. 30-32 Front Street, Ballston Spa Cal1885-8634 or 884-9742 for simple directions week Woods set an Arizona record and tied an NCAA record, when he blocked 14 shots against Or- egon. Along with his shot block- . ing, he leads Arizona in scaring with 15.2 ppg and is second in re- bounding at 7.4. His name may soon be mentioned with Tim Duncan again, but tllis time as one of college basketball's greatest shot blockers. Game of the Week Michigan State at Ohio State February 15 In a battle for the conference title, two of the nation's hottest teams meet in: a dassic Big Ten game. Both teams went to the fmal four last year and both a:re expected to get their again this year. Ohio Smte point guard Sconnie Penn matches up well with Mateen Cleaves. The deciding factor may be which teams s.qpporting cast plays bet· ter. Expect a low scoring game as both teams attack defeasively. lOS6Poll 1. Syracuse 2. Cincinnati 3. Stanford 4. ObioSt. 5. Michigan SL 6. Duke 7. Arizona 8. Tennessee 9. Kentucky 10. Florida ~-- .....

Page 22 • February 10,.2000 Ql:nuca:driensie Sports Revenge is Sweet for Swimming Dutchwomen Defeat St. Lawrence in Final Dual Meet of Season by Lauren Wander Staff Writer On Saturday, February 5, the Union Women's Swimming and Diving Team defeated St. Lawrence University 119 to 85 in their last duel neet of the season. This, however, was not the only excite- ment of the day. Prior to the meet, there was a ceremony recognizing the four graduating women and the three graduating men. Captains Kerry Librandl and Clewis Kinnett, along with Erin Wittes and man- ager Starr Roberts, were presented with a bouquet of flowers to com- memorate their years on the Union Swim Team. At the ceremony's conclusion, l fnion swam their winningestmeet of the season, placing first in ev- ery event. Th1s n1eet was sweet revenge for thl;:' Dutchwomen, after falling just short of victory last year against the Saints, who defeated the Union women by a point. In the past few meets, Junior Sa- rah Rankowitz has swam her best m\season splits as she leads .off the medley relay with the back- stroke leg. Once again, she started the day off in the same fashion swimming 1 :04.1 in the I 00-yard backstroke as the first leg of the winning 400-yard medley relay. The team ofRankowitz, Junior Vic Drier, Senior Erin Wittes, and Jun- ior Rachel M1ller won the first event of the meet to commence the Dutchwomen onslaught. Being a part of that first winning relay, Wittes went on to win her two individual events, first in the 200-yard individual medley with her best in-seasontimeof2:15.99, and later in the 200-yard butterfly. \I know winning isn't everything. but that was a great way for me to end my duel meets at Union,\ stated Wittes af.:. ter her races. Wittes was the only on·e end her U dual meet in a positive way. Every senior won her respective in- dividual events. Librandi and Kinnett pia first as a part Dutchwomen one- two- thre finishe\s in their events. \l'mglad we got to finis things out on a happy commente Kinnett, who won her 200-yard breaststroke yet another in- season best time ·of the meet 2:36.39, while Freshman Lissie Grace and Along with her spectacular per- formance in the 500 freestyle, Librandi had also swam a season's best in the 1000- yard freestyle with an l1:22.0,takifig first place with- freestyle, ''Killer Miller'' placed iixst Withyet more.in-se;~son l;>est times of26.03 and56.74,:r~spectively. \I won everything tha\t I was in-.to- day, That has. never happened to . :me before,\ she commented on three first- '\'·'~. finishes. of the afternoon. \I . love ·helping the ·team out with all h . ,, : t ose pomts. Also in the 50 ·freestyle, Fresh- man Sa.ra ·Hamilton placed second with a 27.87, a lifetime best fortheprom- ising young swirn- the were winning the races, SophomGre Sarah: Ellman diviug events. She won th the three- meter and the one~ meter boards with :her best sea- S()t:l score of 228.75 on the !at- came in second and third in this Chip Crary/CP Beth Fuller prepares to perform her inward on the one-meter. By the time the C()rnpetition had event, respec- ------~~--~--~--~-----~---reached the last tively. out a problem. Coming in fourth in three events, the Dntchwomen had Librandi swam an in-season best the same event, Sophomore Cori the meet in tbe bag, Buqhat did time of5:32.71 to win the 500-yard VeffiU fmished with an in-season not stop soph()moreSara Dietrich freestyle with freshmen Lauren best time by almost ten seconds. from going her l>:est time for the Wander and Anna Sluzar fmishing As always, Miller cleaned up in season of 2:25.8 5 iii her 200-yard right behind her in second and the sprint freestyle events. For backstroke. Uni<Jn should have third place. both the 50 and the 1 00-yard hadanotherptace :inthat event, but SLU Too Much for Swimming Dutchmen by Thatcher Woodley Staff Writer Nathaniel Martin had an amaz- mg meet last Saturday against the St. Lawrence Saints. Every time Martin raced it seemed as ifhe was meant to be in the water. Martin began tearing up the competition from the start. He led off the 400- medley relay with his second best split of the season, 55.97. This in- credible performance helped the relay team consisting of Martin, Kyle Schack, Rob Kirkman and Ridgely Harrison to win the first race of the meet with a time of 3:45.12. Martin then went on to destroy opponents with his brutal strength. In the 200-yard freestyle, \llartin placed third with a time of I·SJ.34 Finally,Martin wasable tt) really display his talents as he \\ ent 2:05,78 in his 200-yard back- .tmke. \Jow that I have helped selected nwmbers of the team with their q,:os, I will recap the events of last Saturday. Unforhmate1y, the ! inion College Men's Swimming .:nd Diving Team lost last Satur- :,~y to close out the dual meets for 111e 1999-2000 season. The St. I awrence Saints were able to es- G.lpc with a win by scoring 123 points to Unions 119. The problems that the team en- countered last Saturday were the same problems that the team has been experiencing during every meet this year. They simply do not have enough star performers. That is, the Dutchmen have a lot of very strong swimmers who have the ability to place second or third but very few swimmers with the ability to place first (at least during the regular season). While it is depth that is needed during big champi- onship meets, it is quality that is needed during dual meets. The diving was steHar this past weekend, which is one of the rea- sons that the score was so close~ Senior Adam Hershman had his best meet of the season, especially since he has been struggling with an injury. Hershman was able to win both the high and the low boards with scores of 231.75 and 244.50 respectively. As of now, Hershman is the favorite for the state competition. Hopefully he will be able to stay healthy and succeed in his final state competi- tion of his career. Despite losing its last dual meet ofthe season tbe Men's Swimming and Diving Team performed quite well. Almost every single team member had at least one sease11~ best time and the morale of the team was very good throughout the meet. Even though it is not ideal for a team to go into a champion- ship meet with only one win, it seems that the team lost little in terms of emotional momentum. It really helps the moral of the team when S() many people are dropping theirtim~sand feelings~ good in the water. Hopefully, the team can take this positive energy and use it to swim quickly during the state meet on February. Cllip Crary/CP Sophomore Peter Corritori competes in the 500 freestyle. . the officials called Sophomore Courtney Audet O'n a controver- sial false start. \I wasn•t s.et yet, and I w~;mt to readjust myself, but it just happened that the St¥ter pushed the buzzer in the midst of my movement,\ explained Audet. \'The funn.y thing was. I was the last one.offthe waU.\ The final event, the 400-yard freestyle relay, proved to be one of the most exciting races that the Dutchwomen have witnessed all ~eason. The \A'' relay from St. Lawrence W!lS winning the entire race., and the twoUnion relays were competing with one another for second place. Diving into the wa- ter for th.e anchor leg ofthe relay, Wander had no intention of catch- ingup to the Saint's relay, but still wanted a good split However, she soon realized that she was gaining on St. Lawrence's anch<:>r, so she decided to go for it. Making up a body-length lead, the freshman just touched out the other relay to give Union's \B\ re- lay team ofHamilton, Sophomore Rachel Bukowski, Junior Jen Hornsby and Wander the first place fmish. \I wasn't really pay- ing attention, but then I turned around and Lauren was pulling ahead ofthatgirl,\ said Hornsby. With less than two weeks until States, winning the 1astmeet of the season was a good step for the Women'sSwim Team. \'Ifthis meet was any indication of how the women.are going to do this year at States, I expect great things from the team~\ said Coach Judy Wolfe. \'They just kept improving all sea- son, and I don't see them stopping now.\ '· \ ' i' I ,.

yet, the of the aU St. for wa- tch- ' shll ' '· that it. the the '.re- Jen by. the the at · ''· · ·~·•·• ·'· ' ;; \ . : ·.· · ·. ·~ ~s alldStandiu.gscThrough Tuesday .· ·Miti!;J.llliike.I Women's Hockey ... · .. :.tf~Zff:i~!=:l'E€A.Cj . . . (4 14/49 ECAC) .:~.;:~fi:~~ ,; j:'\:.~~-~-:~y: _- ;, 2.8 · · ·at¥'il~· ·: · ·- · ·.Tied 2~2 · .· . - / · . _, .. won 1-1 .· ·- .... Lost2 .. 1 CANCELBD · · ,,; : l~J._. PIUN;C.JB .. - ... -:-:·.:;,t;;iz~;:.,;,7Y-Al.-~>~>z:} .;:~::;:~ ··\·' . ·. 25. ''\ST:·t WltENCll 26 CLARKS ON Mar. 3 at Harvard Jan. 7 8 14 15 22 23 29 30 Feb. HAMILTON RIT at Bowdoin at Colby BATES SOUTHERN MAINE at Sacred Heart at Conn. College 5 TRINITY 6 WESLEYAN · · t2 at Vermont Lost S-1 Lost tO-O Lost 10-2 Lost s ... o Won 4-2 Lost 8-1 Lost 6-0 Won 3-2 Won4·3 Lost 3-l Jan -- -··-· , ... ' .. ; ' Men·s ·Basketball (11·712--5 UCAA) Jan. Men's and Women's Track 7 \li1bn~ f~i~~; ;{, . .. 14 \$lt·LA~ 15·'-~ . 1'8. ~·~~r.:···.-.·· •· 22~Y 25 ·~CI< 28 at RusseUSage Feh 1 at Ski<.h:mte .. ·_.;,·:~-- Wen 75-38{Venut) vfcia~.(M St MaYs) Ww/.5-58 - ' Wm67-61 I..ost/9-:xi Wst51-38 Lost ri'3-52 (nst57-54 Won00-49 Wbn(J).47. Won 7'6-65 Lost 76-67 4 s. Vfi'RM)Nf 7 'SUNYlvb:ititre 8 SCRANIDN 11 HAMILTON 14 Si.IA~ 15 CEARJKSON 18 atRPI 22 at Midcllebury 25 HARTWICK 28 at Caze:rDvJa Feb. 1 at Skidtmre 4 atCb.kson S at. St. htvweme M .,, .. ,.... -.· -.·.· .. -e .. - -n·- ·-· · · · · · ·.·. - -. · - .. · ·' · . ,. ··.·.····.··· ndWome ...... . .--.-•-···~• :'\ • .sa··- ··· ·- - .· .. ·. -·· · .... ·.n s Jan. >Swimming 8 at Williams 15 at Hartwick 19 at RPI 22 at Middlebury 29 Hamilton Feb. 5 ST. LAWRENCE 17-..19 Women's Stat~ Meet at RPI 24-26 Menrs State Meet at Hanrilton M. Lost 154·65/ W .. Lost 136 ... 98 M. Lost 122·117/ W. Won122*121 M. Lost 126-115/W. Wot1 145-96 M. Lost 191-89/ W. Lost 190 .. 89 M. Lost 140\'92/W. Lost 137-.94 M.Lost 123~119/W. Won J 19-85. -Won$3-66 Won92-72 Lost7(}61 Lost 7();.61 Won68-67 L>st63--58 Jan. 16 22 28 --,h Feb. Lost67-.\:J3 at Hamilton atRPI at Wesleyan INV'T l.ost69-63 13 UCAA at Hamilton Won81--66 19 at Hamilton Won 81-78 (OT) 25-26 State Meet Lost 71..()7 Lost65-63 wst69-63 M Lost 96-77 • W. Lost9249 ... -

i !r - :....· •. :<, ·i ... f; •• , Kl-is Goodjohn and the Skatin.g: Dutchmen lose to Darlhniriutb .' '. ·· ... :·- ... ' •• ·.' __ ... • .. ••• .•• _· .. ,· '.' ':, _· · •·• ··-· · ·· --- :. '_. --~- - _.' -. • ·· •. - ···- ~-·.· .. ·- -.-- -··oo~-- .. ~;- · .. :::. ____ :::_ •. ~-- -·_ .. •, .. , .. : ~-~\-.\·_,._ .•. :;;,:_-'\\·--_.~,-~~~·: :.:·::·_=_-<·-:·:-·>:::· .. _---~:-·,_··,.::_ :· __ ·,.~-· . ··., ' J ,. __ ,. ' • ' -. _;: -_' 1 .' 'r ~ . : :-:-.-·· ·.: - ·. iti .. t .. · he• : fin.a .. ··. ·} ..•• s ... ·'.· ··e·· ; .,.·.· .. c.· .•... :orids:>Pag.. ,:;e, .. 0 :.18 :· ·······•••••·• . -· . . - . - ·- . ' . - -- . . .· .. . ... ··,.. . -· . ·- .: ,. .-. ,: .. ·. .· -· . _., . ,_' . . ,· . ,· .. -: ._ .. :.:· ___ . _ _,_. ;': ..-·.· .. :: .. -'· :-.-·- ---~-- .--,~-:-~-:·-~:: __ ,_ ..... ·.~-:,··:.\~;_:'·>-•:.,- · .. • '-, I • ·., • e··' 1 ~ ::o, ·, .:_• ,··' ·, ••:· :,·,\c,(:~-., '• . - _.-, .r -:-::;··- _. .. ,,.:, .. - ~ . ' ' . . -. ..·._- '•- •' • • ., o • •' • • ·..-'. I (••' o ' ·,,. ', _,- • ,;~ _: ~ . •' ~-I. • I ,• •,, • J '•- , • ~- ~· \ '' • ~ :.: '~ • ~<I ·~ 0

\{,., -~- ~;;' fi- Kris Goodjohn and the Skating Dutchmen lose to Darthmouth in the final seconds. Page 18 . Also This Week At Union... · ~~~- Febuary 10, 2000 Swimming Battles SL U in last dual meet Page22 Women's Hockey • Splits Weekend Games Page 19 ·

.'., ' J ,. ' r· ~ ~ ·.·· ,'~·· ~ f ''A little-inaccuracy sometimes saves tons of explanation.'' News: ' Murder and Mayhem over Dinner Page4 Editorial: Controversial News Hockey Drops Third in a Row Page 22 -H.H. Munro Fiji National: Union Chapter to Go Dry by Brooke M. \Barylick Editor~ in-Chief In speaking with Michael Johnson, the Director of Alc()hol Awareness.forthe Phi Gamma Delta National Headquarters, it was brought to the attention of Concordiensis that the Phi Gamma Delta chapter at Union C()llege will be going dry as of August 3, 2000. Phi Gamma Delta, also known as \Fiji has been dispelling daims that they will shift to alcohol-free housingas of the next school year, Beca·use of this controversy, Con(:ordiensis interviewed indi- . viduals at both the National Head- . quarters and the Union .Colleg~ chapter. ·r .-'' File Photo Johnson explained that the Na- tional Headquarters deemed alco- Fiji looks to be facing some drie~ times in upcoming months. hot-free hollsing to be a \better the type of member that we get.\ would use Winter term grades or image for the fraternity.\ He con- Johnson continued and ex- those from Spring term. ' tinued that it was co~cluded at the plained the alcohol- free policy that The second cri\erion centers on national cpnvention that, \they is currently in place. He noted that .alcohol awareness. The fraternity wanted to provide the best pos- there e:tists a one-time two-yeat ex- would have tiO sponsor an event, sible experience for the brothers emption from the alcohol-free with 90% ofthe brothers in atten- and this experience did not have housing policy, however to be dance, tliat deals with alcohol to center on alcohol.\ granted this exemption many re- awareness. It should touch upon Johnson emphasized, \The fra- quirements must \be met. The first such topics as liability, underage ternity will not be alcohol-free. The criterion is a cumulative 2.5 grade drinking and mow to care for those chapter house will sirnplybe alco- point average for the entire house who have ingested too much a leo- . hol.;free. This will encourage broth- for the spring semester of this year. hoi. ers to be more creative with Since Union is a trimester institu- The third criterion is the one that events. We are tryiiJ.g to change tion, Johnson was unsure if they ·. prevents the Union chapter from- obtaining the two-year extension. This criterion claims that any chap- t~ seeking anextension cannot be under any violation and/or sanc- tion from their host institution af- ter July of 1 999. This indicates that the Union CGHege chapter of Fiji could not have been punished with any probation since July of 1999. In addition to the aforemen- tioned requirements, alkhapters of Phi Gamma Delta must submit signed forms indicating that they do not use alcohol during pledge events, nor d() they provide alco- hol to minorsat these events. Fur- thermore, the fraternity chapters must be in good financial standing with the National Headquarters. Those chapters wanting to ex- tend the deadline for alcohol-free environments must submit a pro- posal by March 1, 2000. National Headquarters then determines if the specific chapters are eligible based on the previousl~~_Jg?l~il)~- ·-- ___ _ criteria. · Since Fiji ha:s been on probation twice since July of 1999, it appears that by the national standards, that they will not be granted the exten- sion. Fiji was sanctioned in the beginning ofF all tetm for violations during Freshman Orientation as Continued on page 6 U2K Sub~ommittees Issue Preliminary Report back on these reports. This feed- In the Fall of 2000, a policy for ing the history, traditions and in- back, the subcommittee's sugges- Sophomore Rush will be imple- ner workings of the organization tions, and the community's re- mented. The !Housing subconunit- and by taking part in projects that sponse to these suggestions .will tee recommemded that there be a benefit the fraternity or sorority.\ be submitted to the U2K steering two-year adjustment period in \Hazing on the other hand, committee. The steering commit- which houses will experience le- \involves subjecting potential tee will then determine which sug- niency in terms of filling their resi- members to risk, suffering or em- gestions should be recommended dences to capacity, since there will barrassment that, according to by Rachel Bukowski Sports Editor On Friday, February 11 the Pre- liminary Reports of the 'U2K Sub~ · committee were released to the campus cormnunity. The repo11s contained summaries of recom- mendations made by the subcmn- to President Hull for approval. be a decline in membership. theory, causes groups to bond.\ -IQside .- . . ffii.ttees of the U2K steering com- The goal of the U2K committee In addition the U2K committee The subcommittee contends that is to transform the Greek system may allow for sophomores to m0ve the college must have a zero-toler-· onUnion'scampusintoalessdorni- into Greek h~ousing during their ance policy on hazing, which in- nant force. To achieve this goal, a sophomore year. eludes any events where alcohol number of changes must be made The current social life at Union is served or any kind of situation regarding aspects that are perti- is primarily Greek-oriented, cen- that involves individual-to-indi- camiit~s-Ne'lJ!$ .. ·~·-·3 .. opini6na·: 1.:2 ·' . . . ·,; ' ; ~ ·'::: ;• ~ . . l!\fll·• . -. ··J;,. ' . ·. ·' . . - . . . . . let;~,;:~~logy :;..ts:··.· mittee, which include Housing, Social Life, Rush, StudenUFaculty Relations and Pledging. Eachsub- committee discussed controversial issues surrounding their particu- lar topic and then made recommen- dations to aid in the betterment of the Greek system. On Page 1 of the report it is stated that, \All of these subcommittee recommendations remain open for discussion ... Nothing in the follow- ing report is necessarily going to be recommended by the Steering Committee to the President.\ At this time, the subcommittees, in the words of Dean Alford, are inviting \intelligent feedback on the sug- gestions made in ~.report.\ Stu- dents, faculty and alumni are highly encouraged to voice their opinions on any suggestions made · · in the report. The campus cofi1lllunity will be a;.;,..;...,.;.;,;..;;;:;;......,;.;.;..;..,;....,.~......., ....... .......,.~....,....~ g~ven time to generate their feed- nent to Greek life at Union. tered around many alcohol-related vidual subservience. Asofnow,Greekmenaregiven events. This subcommittee has They do, however, feel that significant housing privileges at suggested a 11umber of options to pledging is an \important element Union, based on the Group Hous- change the social life at Union. of Greek life'~ and \should be a l- ing Classification. Four out of five These options range from the ere- lowed to continue in some form.\ residences on this campus catego- ·ation ofa Campus Activity Board Pledging will be limited to a six- rizedas \A\ Houses, are inhabited (CAB) to prowiding all-campus so- week period, since this is the stan- by Greek males. Greek females are cia I spaces such as a \Party Bam.\ darci set for all Greek organizations allotted only \B+\ Residence Halls There has also been a problem nationwide. and \B\ Group Housing options, regarding the lack of student par- Related to the controversy sur- the lowest standard of alternative tic:ipation in planned activities and rounding the Greek system, is the housing on Union's campus. This events on campus. The social life issue of student/faculty relations inequity cannot be tolerated by the subcommitte•e has proposed ways on Union's campus. college, and the U2K Housing sub- to improve the publication of these The Student/Faculty relations committee is \recommending that events. subcommittee has proposed some the College either build more 'A· Pledging lias posed a major is- incentives to create more student' centrally located houses or redis- sue in relatio,n to Greek organiza- faculty interaction by creating a tribute the residents of.the present tions on Union College's campus. coffee shop as well as a Campus 'A· houses,\ stated Housing sub- According to the subcommittee, Activity ]3oard that will post committee co-chair, Ian Eletz, '0 1. there is not:hllng wrong. with \learn- Continued on page J

\A little inaccuracy sometimes saves tons of explanation.'' News: Murder and Mayhem over Dinner Page 4 Editorial: Controversial News Page 12 Features: The Simpsnns Endurt Page 17 Sports: Hockey Drops Third in a Row Page 22 Inside Campus News- 3 Opinions -12 Technology-IS Features -16 A &E -18 WorldNews-20 .· Sport,s - 22 Our E-mail c(Jncordy @ vu~un·io/n.,edu -H.H. Munro Fiji National: Union Chapter toG@ Dry by Brooke M. Barylick Editor-in-Chief In speaking with Michael Johnson, the Director of Alcohol Awareness for the Phi Gamma Delta National Headquarters, it was brought to the attention ()[ Concordit?nsis that the Phi Gamma Delta chapter at Union College will be going d:ry as of August 3, 2000. Phi Gamma Delta, also known as \Fiji h.as been dispelling clai:~ns that they will shift to alcohol-free housing as·ofthe next school year. Because of this controversy, Concordiensis interviewed indi- viduals at both theN a tiona! Head- quarters and the Union College chapter. Jolum:m explained that the Na- tional Headquarters deemed alco- hol-free housing to be a \better image for the fraternity.\ He con- tinued that it was concluded at th.e national convt!ntion that \they wanted to provide the best pos- sible experience for the brothers and this experience did not have to centeron alcohol.\ Johnson emphasized, \The fra- ternity will not be alcohol-free. The chapter house will simply be alco- hol-free. This will encourage broth- ers to be more creative with events. We are trying to change File Photo Fiji fooks to be facing some drie~ times in upmm1\t1g months. the type Df member that we get.\ would use Winter term grades ()r JohnsoG. continued and ex- those from Sprrngterrn. plained tme alcohol-free policy that The second criterion centers on is curn:ntly i11 pla(t:. He noted that akoho1 awarcnc:;!). Th.: fraternity there existts a one-time two-year ex- would have to SJPonsor an event, emption f;r()m the alcohol-free with 90% of the E:Jrothers in atten- housing }l<Jlicy, however to be dance, that deals with alcohol granted tl1is exemption many re- awareness. It sl!ould touch upon quirements. must be met. The first such topics as lia~ility, underage criterion is a cumulative 2.5 grade drinking and how t(l care for those point avera.ge for the entire house who have ingeste·d too much alco- for the spring semester of this year. hol. Since Union is a trimester institu- The third criterion is the one that tion, Jolmson was unsure if they prevents the Union chapter from· obtammg the two-year extension. lpis criterion claims that any chap- ter seeking an extension cannot be under any violation and!or sanc- tion from their host instinttion af- ter July of 1999. This indicates that the Union College chapter of FIJi couid not have been punished with any probation since July of 1999. Jn addition to the aforemen- tioned requirements. all chapters of Phi Gamma Delta must submit signed forms indicating that they do not use alcohol during pledge events, nor do they provide alco- hol to minors at these events. Fur- thermore, the fraternity chapters must be in good financial standing with the National Headquarters. Those chapters wanting to ex- tend the deadline for alcohol-free environments must submit a pro- posal by March 1, 2000. National Headquarters then determines if the specific chapters are eligible hased on the preYi()u~lv e'<rbine<i criteria. Since Fiji has been on probation twice since July of 1999, it appears that by the national standards, that they will not be granted the exten- sion. Fiji was sanctioned in the beginning of Fall term for violations during Freshman Orientation as Continued u11 ptlge 6 U2K Subcommittees Issue Preliminary Report by Rachel Bukowski Sports Editor On Friday, Febmary 11 the Pre- liminary Reports of the U2K Sub- conunittee were released to the campus community. The reports contained summaries of recom- mendations made by the subcom- mittees of the U2K steering com- mittee, which include Housing, Social Life, Rush, Student/Faculty Relations and Pledging. Each sub- commirtee discussed controversial issues surrounding their particu- lar topic and then made recol11111en- dations to aid in the betterment (lf the Greek system. On Page 1 of the report it is stated that, \All of these subcommittee recommendations remain open for discussion ... Nothing in the foUow- ing rep(lrt is necessarily going to be rec(J)m.mended by the Steering Committee to the President... At this time, the subcommittees, in tile words ofDean Alford, are inviting \intelligent feedback on the sug- gestions made in tlw.,report.\ Stu- dents, faculty and alumni are highly encouraged to voice their opinions Qn any suggestions made in the report. The campus community will be given time ta generate their feed- back on these reports. This feed- In the Fall of2:0<JO, a policy for ing the history, traditions and in- back, the s;ubcommittee' s sugges- Sophomore Rush wi 11 be imp le- ner workings of the organization tions, an:d the community's re- mented. The Housing subconunit- and by taking part in projects that sponse to these suggestions will tee recommended that there be a benefit the fraternity or sorority.\ be submitted to the U2K steering two-year adjustment period in \Hazing on the other hand. committee. The steering commit- which houses '.Vnll experience le- \involves subjecting potential tee will then determine which sug- niency in terms o ffilling their resi- members to risk, suffering or em- gestions sh()uld be recommended dences to capac it}'. since there wi 11 ba rrassment that, ace ord ing to to Presidcent Hull for approval. be a decline in rucembership. theory, causes groups to bond.\ The g01al of the U2K committee In addition the U2K commirtee The subcommittee l:ontends that is to tramsf0 rrn the Greek system may allow for soph.omores to move the college must han: a zero-toler- on Union's campus into a less dorni- into Greek housing during their ance policy on hazing. which in- nant force. To achieve this goal, a sophomore year. eludes any events where alcohol number of changes must be made The current so•ciallife at Union is served or any kind of situation regardin!i aspects that are perti- is primarily Grea;;k-oriented, cen- that involves individual-to- indi- nent to G-ree'k life at Union. tered around many alcohol-related vidual subservience. Asofmi)\V,Greekmenaregiven events. This subc(Jmmittee has They do, however. feel that significant housing privileges at suggested a number of options to pledging is an \impo11ant element Union, b.ased on the Group Hous- change the social life at Uni<m. of Greek life\ and \should be al- ing Class.ification. Four out of five These options ra.nge from the ere- lowed to continue in some fonn.\ residences. ()n this campus catego- ·ation of a Campus Activity Board Pledging will be limited to a SIX- rized as \\A\ Houses, are inhabited (CAB) to providi.ng all-campus so- week period, since this is the stan- by Greek.m<1les. Greek females are cial spaces such as a \Party Bam.\ dard set for all Greek organizations allottedomly \B+\ Residence Halls There has also been a problem nationwide. and \B\ GrQup Housing options, regarding the lack of student pa.r- Related to the controversy sur- the lowest !> tandard of alternative ticipation in plawed activities and rounding the Greek system. JS the housing()nUnion's campus. This events on campm. The social life issue of studenvfaculty· relations inequity caruwt be tolerated by the subconunittee has proposed ways on l. 1 nion 's campus. college,aild the U2K Housing sub- to improve the pwblication of these The Student 'Faculty relations conunitta;;e is .. recommending that events. subcommittee has proposed some the Colle~e either build more 'A· Pledging has posed a major is- incentives to create more student centrally located houses or redis- sue in relation to Greek organiza- facu1ty interaction by creating a tribute the ;esidents of the present tions on UnionCollege's campus. coffee shop as well as a Campus 'A' houses,\ stated Housing sub- According to the subcommit1ee, Activity Board that will post committee c<J-chair, Ian Eletz, '01. there isnothingwr()ng with \learn- Continued 1111 page 3

mp1..1s Life Page 2 • February 17, 2000 •(!]:ornnrhlm~il!i Security Incident Report Sunday, February 6- Saturday, February 12 Sunday,. February ·6, 2000: Substance Abuse Substance Abuse Criminal Mischief Crimina). Mischief Harassment Monday, February 7, ~000: Fire Alarm 12:mid Reamer Center. Alcohol abuse. Conduct Charges Filed. 12:16amReamerCenter. Alcohol abuse. Conduct Charges Filed. 2:OOam ReamerCenter. V andalisrn to men's room. 4:45am West College. Vandalism1oce1:lingtiles. 8:41am Richmond HalL Harassing phone calls. 9: lOam Sigma Phi. Accidental cause ,from steam from Shower. Student F'orunl Note:s F(!bruary 9, 2000 · CaUtoOrder: 7:06pm Attendance: Danette Slevinski (A); Karen De Vito (A); Steve Schuler (A);. Jon Lemle (L ); Pooj& l(othari (A) Approval of Minutes: Via Email; min1,1te!',> approved Offi~er Reports: VP of Administration (Christy Weafer}-Nothing to report VP ofFinance{Brian Roaehe)·Du.toh :Pipers CD (asking $4800), met : with mernber of Dutch Pipers to answer q\J.estiohs/concems: motion to approve \loaning Dutch Pipers $4800 which will be retumed as income is .generated from new CD, viavarioas fundraising, and sale o;fprevious . CDs.\-Yes: 52/3, No: 2,Abstain: 7 J/3--motionpasses VP of Campus Life (PaulStewut-Stand)-Winter carnival was a sue~ ' cess; Fri., 2/11 (TGIF inChets) VP of AAC (Danette Slevinski)-Nothing to Report VP of Multicultural Affai:rs {Debbie Pellish)-Multicultqral c;:elebra- .. tion in Old Ch~pel (2/12, Old Chapel, 7pm-2am) Tr.ustees(AndyMarkow~ki)-Special elections (Class of200 1 ), peti- .• tion available (2/14), petitionsdue(2/18), election(2/25}: contemplating using both paper ballots and online balloting for erection IFC (Noah Trueger)•New executive board elected; rush ending this week PanHel (Meghan O'Keefe )·SDTsubmittilig proposal to be reinstated as recognized Greek organization; sororities to sign no hazing contract THC (Ian Eletz)-Continuing recruitment Fire Alarm 2:30prn Bronner House. Oven fire from butnt food. Life ' Safety Violation issued. 'Clas~ of 2000 {JenCaruso in Karen DeVitQ'S absence)-Senior gift decided (will be revealed at 100 days celebration-3/4) Class of 2001 (Jon Lemle in Steve Schuler's absence}·Nothing to report Mischievous Behavior Tuesday, February 8, 2000: Criminal Mischief Larceny Criminal Mischief 2:OOpm Davidson Hall. Garbage-strewn about. Vandalism to furniture, 11 :OOam Raymond House. Vandalism to cigarette urn. 11: 1 Oam Fero House. Theft of vacuum cleaner. 1:27pm Chi Psi. Vandalism to door. Wednesday, February 9, 2000: Criminal Mischief .. Criminat.Mischief Animal Criminal Mischief Safety Hazard 12:34am Edwards House. Vandalism to hallway area. 10:08amSigmaChi. Vandalism towindow 11 :48pm McKean House. C~t found in building. Con duct Charges filed. 12:20pm McKean House. Smashed beer bottles on Sidewalk. Cigarette bums in carpet. Conduct Charges And Life Safety Violation issued. 2:19pm Davidson Hall. Washer o'Ver filled caus ing belt to burn. Thursday. February 10, 2000: Harassment Crimina] Mischief Suspicious Persons ' Friday. February 11, 2000: Disorderly Conduct Harassment Motor Vehicle Accident Larceny Injury . 3:45am Schaffer Library. Report ()£harassment to Employee. 3:50am North Terrace Lane. Van&lismto barrier gate. 2:40pm Alumni Gym. Unauthorized guests in building. All identified and advised regarding proper procedure. 12:04am South College. Student identified. Conduct Charges filed. 5:15am Richmond !fall. Harassing phone calls. 11 :51 am RaymondJPotter lot. Property dama~e acci dent. ll :55 am Fraternity. Theft of compact discs I 0:45pm campus walkway. Student slipped on ice. Saturday, Febrnaryl2, 2000 Larceny Firealartn 7:20am Park PL Theft of const:rttction debris. Subject - Identified and warned off property. 10: 16am Fieldhouse. Pull box accidentally hit with soft ball Class of 2002 (Julie Wittekind)- Nothing to report Class ol2003 (Yoni Malc:hi in Pooja Kothari's absence)-Nothing to report CommitteeR.~ports: SAC (Jen Caruso )-Fin awarded two-year extension of housing privi- leges; Smith:Houseupnext{2f14) Old Business: SAC's Alcohol Policy-Bcltoollawyer looking into proposed proposal for new alcohol pol'icy(Student Fotum' s comments welcomed ;:tnd ac- cepted-regarding maximum occupancy at registered parties) Security Issues-Bob Tomeck-Light@ Union Ave; gate.seems promis- ing U2K Coinmittee -Student Forum discussed tone/language of proposal: additions/editing reviewed,. made coltlll1ents regarding wording/sentence structure (technical points), would like to see more about history of co~ttee, more uitifying wording (seems one-sided in certain sections)- wiU report back to Steering Colllmittee whereby another and up to date draft will_be processed · New Business: Dutch Pipers. CD-See VP ofFinance report Announ~ements: None Motion to Adjourn: Second; meeting adjoumed at 8:32pm Announcements Announcing 'the Tentii Annual Charles Proteus Steinmetz Symposium ,May 12, 2~00 Students with creative, scholarly and research achievemnt need to register through the Steinmetz Symposium Web Site www .Steinmet~lOOO.union.edu All students who attend NCUR are expected to present. David Cotter, Assistant Professor of Sociology will be considered for reappointment this term. Any member of the campus community wishing to offer written or oral testimony concerning. Professor Cotter should contact a member of the Reappointment Review Committee. The committee members are: Ilene Kaplan, committee chair (Sociology Department: kaplani@union.edu); Martha Huggins (Sociology: hugginsm@union .. edu).; Therese McCarty (Economics: mccartyt@union.edu). The Adirondacks · , Winter 1000 S~~-nar .. Series TOD_AY: ~'From Siberia to the Adiropdacks\ · · February\24: \People Partnerships and P-olitics; A View fr--om the Chair'' March 2: \Wilq Visions'' · March 9: \AdirondackFolk> Blqegrass.andtlogDancing\ Property damage Life Safety Violation I 2:31pm Alexander La. Vehicle struckbarrierchain . · 7:35pm Sorority. Student removed room smoke detec \'-'. ~~-A_ll,.,..e~v_en_t...,...s~tak_e_p~la_c_e_in_t~he_N_. _o_tt_M_e_m_on_· a_l_a_t 7~·-P_M_- _ tor. Union College Undergraduate Summer Research Come write for the C~fJncordiensis! Meetings at 8 PM every Thursday in CC 303 :.;. Fellowships Available· Earn $2500 plus free ro.om at .the Colle~:e • . All ~pplicants mu.st ltave a faculty sponsor. Get information and..applications. at the Dean's Office · Sl.OO Scieace Center Applicatioas due .March 1. ~-

Campus News cti.DlUorlrien:•i••February 17, !000 • Page 3 New and Improved Concordy Web Site The Dating GaDie by Kristen Zadourian StaffWriter Concmdiensis a good face on the by Ally$)n Kohlmann Web and give alumni and the stu- Stcf!Writer dents on Terms Abroad an oppor- Tbis past Friday, Wells House, a tunity to .read and be interested in community se.rvic.e theme house, Concordiensis Web master Ja- the articles.\ organized and hosted their fifth son Putortihas been working since the beginning of this academic year to re-master tlie Concordiensis Web site. Putorti, a fresluD.an, skippedhissenioryeat in high school to take classes at Union. He is responsible for aU of the gn~phic design and HTML work for the updated Web site. According to Puterti, \My goal is to make [the Concordiensis Web site l an innovation between the staff and the Union community.\ Every article that appears in the newspaper each week is updated onto the site immediately after Concordiensis goes to print. Re.,. cently, the pictures from the News and Sports sections have been added as well. Th.e new Concordiensis site of-· fers niuch more than the weekly artiQles and photos. Other features of the Concordy Web site include links to tvguide.com. 9tte click brings up the listings for Schenectady local pr.ogrammiD.g. Also, movies around the area were added to the site. Four local movie the!!,ters are constantly up- dated to provide the listings and . times. of allllJ.ovies playing. Having trouble deciding-which coat to wear outside? Check out' ., C~nco.rdielJsi~' ,YJr9b .. ~ite f~~ ~e hlostcUireritweatherforeca8teach rooming. Need directions? The site is now featuring a new link to get direc- tions an )'Where from Union. Fill in a final destination, and in seconds the desired directions will appear, detdled tum.-by~tum. Putotti says,-\I want to give the Putorti:createda.newfonunthat · annual Valentine's Day Dating is interactive with the staff. It is a Game. Modeledaftertheearly90's way for readers to state their opin.- television s h. ow, the ions about the articles, make co:rn- · Wens' House Dating ments ot give leads to the editors. · Game was complete with Putort:i wants the students to be ·. contestants, hosts, music heard, and to have a say in what is and a crazy audience. happening with Concordiensis. audience was quite a When asked about the chance · crowd withmo1e than · of competition between the people. Concprdiensis Web site and the The week before DailyJolt site,Putorti commented, ·. event, the h()USe held a \One site is not better than the table in the CamptJ.S Cen- other, at this point theyaresinJ.ply . · ter for the selecti<:m different. The Daily Jolt is more a · forum of complaint, ·whereas Concordiensis is an intellectual fonim.\ Although there are overlapping similarities between the two sites, such as the weather updates, movie showings and television, the two provide different information. Concordiensis On-line provides ex- tensive news COYerage while Daily Jolt is still more of a portal site. theCopco;~:d:y site now includes a chat feature that will allow stu- dents to communicate live with members ofConcordiensis' staff. In addition, the site has syndicated news,. sports, entertainment and technology news. Th~ Concordy Web site is pro- moting th~ paper on the Web to entice readers, encourage sugges- tions and allow students to voice . their- op\nions. According to Putorti, \The Web site is a way to increa$e readership and promote Concordiensis. The Concor.diensts site is concordy.union.edu. Check out the latest updates or feel free to . post any suggestions -or coll1l11ents about the paper at ,the site. Houses' Social committee made up questions for possible contestants answer. Basedupon nality and personal in the responses, house decided on the . contestants. The game was set up . with four rotrnds: talent, intelligence, questions, and audi- ence .participation. First, one man, Angel Fontanez had the chance to choose between three bachelorettes, Meghan O'Keefe., Emily Sparks, and Ari Papagapitos. · Afterwards, Amanda Carr had the opportunity to choose between Avrum Joffe, That~her Woodley and Matt Lallier. In round one, the talent compe- . titionconsistedof each female con- testant drinking a glass of water as . fast as they C()Uld. Also in the tal- ent competition, contestants had to recite the alphabet backward starting from the letter K. · The second round was the intel- ligence seeti()n and was m(ldeled after the television show Who Wants to Be,a Millionaire. There were tw() (Juestions for each player, the former being easier than the latter. Questi<lns ranged in categories from_ge()graphy to history. Ques- tions included, \What is the fourth largest island\ \What is the capi- tal of the United States?\ \Who is crowd laughi11g and the contes- tants guessing. Chad Robertson, 'the house's social director, also <lid a wonderful job organizing, execut- ing, and decorating the event. Fontanez chose Meghan O'Keefe and Cart chose Joffe. Once it was over, the contestants ' hip Contestants for the Dating Game at Wells House. the Greek Prime Minister,\ and were finally able to make their de- \Where was the site of the 1896 cisions. The lucky winners re- world~s fair?\ ceived candyand flowers, in addi- After round two, the audience tion to their date. was give11. an opportunity to vote In years past, the event has al- for whO<they liked the best by clap- ways been a huge success, and ping an<! cheering the loudest. this year was no exception. Wells Afterwards, the contestants were House Manager Senior Ed Lallier · able to a.sk each player some per- said, \As always, we packed the sonal tb.ings about themselves, house. There was a lot of support such as tlJ.eirbest physical feature, from the residents at Wells House, their fee.lings on salads, and how which contribute(\ to the success well they can seduce someone. of the night. One ob-server, Freshman Beca Lalliercontin11ed, \We hopedto Sallen, commented, \I could not tell the student body that we spon- stoplaughing, and I hope that they sor fun, creative, and spontaneous do this again so I can walk out with events. We are an ideal residence adatelike AvmmJoffe!\ for any college student. I invite The h.osts, Wells House resi- eve.ryone to come to the remainder dents, Charlotte Beals and Michael of our recruiting events because I er, weE'e fabulous. The ke t the _ ou will have ·ust asmuch fun.\ Parking Still Poses a Problem U2K .•. continued fi·om page I events which are appealing to b()th ·by Mary Felton Staff Writer Students constantly complain about the lack ofpa:rking on cam- pus. Bill Sickinger, DirectorofCam- pas Safety, commented that the problem is simply that there is \not enough adequate or convenient pa:rking.\ The key ·word here is C()nve- nient. There are \adequate\ park- ing options for students wh() Jive on campus including a lot loca:.ted directly behind Richmond. Ullfor- tunately,. Richmond houses fresh- men who .are not .atlowed to have ca:rs on cunpus .. The l()t directly behind Fox and Davidson residence halls. is also- designated for students, as are the smalllotsbehindtbeSigma Phi fra- thnity, Chi Psiaitd Phi Delta Theta. Lastly there is. the large lotbeilind Hickok, Potter and Raymond houses which is a split student/ faculty/visitor lot. Unfortunately, none of these lots are near any main building on cam- '1!1 pus. This poses a major safety is- sue at night and in the winter. Sickinger cited. the Lamont park- ing lot as a problem area on cam- pus. ing dock area\ down by the Cam- Students who park their cars in pus Center gives security the most this let, near Psi Upsilon and Chi problems in terms of parking viola- Psi, a:re required to move their cars tions, although he did admit that every day, before busines.s hours the newly added fifteen minute commence~ in order to provide parking spaces have cut down the .... parking for faculty and staff. Stu- amount of tickets givetl out in that dents who leave their cars in this area of campus. . lot during business hours are likely On averag:e, fifteen to twenty to receive tickets, usually amount- parking tickets are given out each ing to twenty-..---------~--------, day to ve- five dollars a 1 'Q · hicles parked piece. . n ·average, .. illegally on An()therpark-. · Union~scam- ing lot that has fifteen \.(0 · pus. Viola- prQvided some · tots aie given :~~:~:~: ;:;:· twenty parking .. ~;:~::~~ :~~;~:~:~· tickets are ·i: 81 t~ 0 :~e~ Alumni Gym. eliminate or From midnight aiven OUt eaCh alleviate the throagh5AM, 0.,. charge. parking is pro- d '' Many stu- hibited in this ay. . . dents feel lot. that this time If a student who lives off-cam- pus parks in this lot in the evening in order to study and then returns to his car at 12:30 AM, he very well may find a ticket lying on his wind- shield. Si<:kinger stated that the \load- allotment isooo sma11 for filling out an appeal. Sickinger responded that this petio.d was \viewed as being reasomable.\ Sickinger could notcomment on how much money the college makes from parking tickets each ''--·~-----·----~------------- ---·---··. -- --- ·- ·-·-·· year. faculty and students. When students register their There is als<> fhe controversial cars for tbe first time, they receive proposal of a possible co-ed Greek a sheet detailing the parking regu- system. This idea has become in- lations on campus. They also get creasingly popular to many mern- a map of where ae or she can park . bers of the campusconununity who their car. The tenth regulation on . feel that more co-education in the the list states,. \Parking on Union Greek system could bring positive College property is a privilege, not changes to the College. a right, ~d a parking space is not However, there are still many guaranteed for each vehicle in any who feel that fue creation of a co- parldn:g area.\ · ed Greek system would not ()nly The real problem lies in the fact ' be detrimental to the present sys- that parking. is a constant issue and tern, but also impossible. compla-int of many students at · · There is also a financial issue Uni()n. Why is parking not a regarding these proposals. J'he ''right\ for those who pay to go to . changes suggested could cost the schoolbere? There seem tQ be no . • c(}llege millio11s of dollars. \The immediate plans to .improve the potential for lost revenue from paiking~tuations that have arisen. empty Greek \beds alone coul<lex- .Sickinger stressed the idea that ceed.$115,000.ay.earfortwoyears.\ \people need to walk,\ implying Although theccllegemightwant that too many students rely on their to carry out many of these rec()m- cars for ill means of mobility. mendations, they must be ready to People do need to walk, but at commit to the immense fmancial the same time, the winter season · burden it may cause doing so. 'This and the loss of the escort system also means fue Greek system must have thrown many students for a make certain necessary changes to \loop.'\ its current metbods in order to re- S1udents are going to have to · main in existence at Union College. learn t() adapt to the trolley sched- ule, wltich has been the subject of many complaints so far. See proposal &n pages 8-1 ~

Page 4 • February 17, 2000 • ainmnr.Mmsis . Campus News ,Cultural Celebration V -Day Monologues by Debra Pellish Contributing Writer On SatUFday, February 12, at 7 PM in Old Chapel, the beginning of a new tradition took place at Union College~ As people entered the first annual Cultural Celebra- tion, they were greeted by color, festivity and life. The room, deco- rated in a collaborative effort by Kemoy Faster, Pavankumar Bo:mmasam.udrarn, Darcy Tuczynski, Rizwan Jaffer, Liz Schmitt and Debra Pellish., wel- comed people into a room that did not normally exist at Union Col- leg,e. This newly invented room br~ughtpeopleaway from the cold winter outside and into a,n arena ofMardi Gras excitement and car- nival spirit. can chanting fined the air. Immediately after Professor Miller's presenta- tion, an dancing group · . , . Schenectady per- formed a series electric dances Michael Ja•cks·on moves to Aretha Franklin attitude, and everything in between .. The rrrn11n· was made up of chil-· dren from the Hamilton Hill area ,. which gave kids the opportunity to ex- press themselves through dance while learning about Afri- can culture. by TolJLiAilarnon Contribmting, Writer ·· This past Mo11day night was a very speciab:rig;hrtoti:campus. Not only was it Vale:ntine 's Day, but V- Pay as welL At 7 PM in Old Chapel, The Wagina Monologues . tookplace. Auclience l!lll()t:nl>ers who were , lucky enougll. !lot to be turned · away at the <l()!Dr wer~ able to se.e .. the play. Theyg!iined a whole new · · underoS.tanding e;:f the meaning of V-Day. V -bay is a· c:ampaign to end sexual violence: against women . and to p:roclai:hl Valentine's Day as· the day to celeb111te wonten and de- mand the end abuse,. 1 on :mance~ ~f At the beginning of tlte night, the air sme lied of foods from both Dining Services and local restau- railts from the tri-state area. The menu consisted of a variety of foods from different etltnkities. very own Emily Sparks, who voh.m- teers for the group, performed an Afri- can dance while Nurin Jaffer, Pooja Kathari and Swati Vagina •n~.~- Patel perform at .the First Annual Cultural logues on c.OI· Murmurs from the crowd ex- claimed that the food was deli- cious, and definitely a new ~ating expetience thatrnany people would not have oth~rwise had. wearing a stunning African dress. In response to Sparks' amazing per- formance, the atldience was on their feet after Carisma fl.llished dancing. The next .performer was Frceshman Jamera Simmons. Simmons' sang Bob Marley's \Re- demption Song\ a cappella, while . her beautiful voice filled Old Chapel. Following Simmons' per- formance, the Asian Student Union (ASU) acted in .a series of performances surrounding. the topic of Asian stereotypes. Their creative and amusing skits were w- very well'7received by the audience. At approximately 8 PM, t.he au- dience was greeted witll perfor- mances that echoed thwughout Old Chapel To begin, theMusliJ:n Student Association, MSA, pre- sented a video that captured the essence of their religion and tradi- tions. the video highlighted the diversity and intricacy of the Mus- lim culture. Following the MSA clip, Professor A. T. Miller ~ed a se:- ries of Africaa songs wlrite·dressed in traditional African dress. The F inaUy, the last performers of the . night were students from SHAKTI, songs were interactive, flnd Afri- the Indian student group. The stu- Celebration. lege campuse:s. dents performed a traditional ln.- around th ~ dian dance, while dressed in amaz- country. .ingly ordained outfits. All of the The ca.:n.· perfonn.ances were outstanding, paign, whicb. is and the audience was entranced by nationally spon~ the talent that filled the ro9m. · soted by S For th.e remainder of the night, a ·. magazine, lln..d multicultural o.J. played reggae, .. locally spom- calypso, hip hop and soca music. sored by tlu. The night was a tremendous. . Women'sUrui()ll The performers and groups who here at U helped to make this night.happen College, were much appreciated and all geted <>·l\r. those who donated to the night 300 catnP11lses.l helped to make it a huge success. By the looks. of ~e- first cultfiral celebration, th.~ future of this spe- cial festival willcontinue its impres- sive success as a tradition at Union. country, u1v:uur production as possible; Tickets were sold for two dollars and all proceeds went to the YWCA. The Vagina: Monologues tell stories about •menstruation, sex, rape, genital m1ltilatiop, and female circumcision from women of all dif- ferent etlwicities, nationa:lities, ID.ld economic status. One monol:ogue that grabbed the audience ·~attention was titled, \The Woman Who LikedTo Make Vaginas Happ;y\ perfortnedby Jen- nifer Breen. The act required her to perform a W'ide variety of moans ranging from the \right-on-it'' moan to. the \'WASP\ moan. Breen's perfoflilllllce filled the room with laughter, Murder over Chicken larger. than ye&r, whic:hhe1<! only si;x.ty -f1ve: performan<JeSi on V alentirn.e '.s Day. Shanon Pryor and Jocelyn Friedman peifonn \My Vagina is My Village. \ obsessed wife Hallelujah Hamilton. Also, his incredibly intelligent daughter Eve, her mother Sasha, Hamilton's second wife, Sasha's lesbian lover Celeste Deteste, a nun and two schoolgirls, classmates of Eve, two Borioboolian natives, Rosalrna the prostitute and Win- ston the communist. The head of the investigation was the kilt wear- the back ofher head. Even one of caterers vomited because of the gruesome site. The proc:lut<:;- -~-----...-'-----------­ by Clare Canal Contributing Writer The stage was set in Upper Class dining hall and the crim~ was mur- der. This past Saturday evening was a night of murder and mystery when the Mountebanks, Union's Gwn, the oldest continually oper- ating student Theatre Com- . pany in the country. per-~\\\\=.,...,...,.,..,~,.,....,,..,.,;...,.. f()rrned .. Spinster in a Hand- . bag.\ This interactive perfor- mance, writtenby Alan Bryce, was well worth the five-d<>llar validine swipe. It was 1uuo.;u1 more than just a three-c()u;rse . meal. Upon entering, dinner guests were handed two sheets of paper. One was a list of instructions and guide- lines for the evening's detec- tive task. The other was a Sleuth sheet, which asked questions about the \terrible crimes to be committed.'' The dinner party was held for the purpose of a society about which all of the characters played some functional role. One purpose of this Moha)Vk society was for the benefit of haircuts. for aborigines of the small fictional .country of Borioboolia. The motive for the murders, as in most crimes, was money. The characters included the mentally impaired Alexander Hamilton and her Borioboolian Actors in Spinster in a Handbag. ing Sir Alfred. Each of the charac- ters made rounds to each of the tables, telling stories of their pasts and encouraging questions about them and of their knowledge·ofthe other characters. Soon after the first course was finished, the first murder had al- ready been committed. Guests were invited to view the bloody body of Sasha, head of the soci- ety, with a spear shoved through During dinner, guests specu- • lated the murder and the suspects. · '\I think it was that stupid girl Eve and her J ell-0. She should be in the mental institute with her fa- ther',\ commented Senior Seth · Wright Just before des- pects were, Rosalma the prosti- tute and Alexander Hamilton. Jessica Franklin, one of the lucky winners who received a gift cer- tificate toCrossgate's Mall, admit- ted to having some help fmm Sir . Alfred, who gave some leading ideas as to where their investiga- tion should be focused. The Mountebanks typically pro- duce one or more show each term. · Weekly meetings are held and Moderator Phoebe Burr can be <:ontacted with questions, com- ments or ideas about the Mounte- banks. tion might so()umd. risque and racy, but that is Ollie ()f the points that The Vagina M(Jino/(Jg:ues hopes to get across. 'ifhe int~;::nt is not ~o make.peopletense up and feel un- easy when ll.e:aring about vaginas, but rather t<J ~et women to talk abilut ~d fed comf()rtable with their vaginas arud to share their sto- ries. Eve Enslet C:Oitl})iled over 200 interviews tlh.lltsb.e conducted~ith women all OV\elt the world into an Ob~e-award. w.dnmrng play that has been an .incr-edi:bie hit internation- ally. This CaJ11plliga hopes tocon- vince women_ that it is okay to ex- plore their va..giinas and talk about them so that tbe:y aFe more likely to speak outagaiostthe sexual abuse of women th:at is all too familiar around the l<VOrld !llld in the United States, Statistics re 1iably state that some- where in Ame:rica, a woman is raped every two mknll.ltes. The V -n:a_, .campaign was picked up ~y the Women's Union ofUnion CDllege and was directed by Alexis Wllsserman and pro- duced by SJlttrlie Dowd. The cast consisted 01f Wasserman and Dowd, as llVelll as a great mix of women facll.lllt);' and ·students. En- couragemeni by Professor Lori . Marso intlle PiOlitical Science De- partment hel]>'ed to get as many ·different p·eople involved in the Another piowerful monologue told the story of a Bosnian woman who had been systematically raped and tortured_ It was called, \My Vagina Was My Village'; and was performed b:Y Shannon Pryor and Jocelyn Friedman. The range of issues touched in the lll.ono1og;aes left the audience with an enlightened view V-Day. .Professor Cltarles Batson of the French Department said that The Vagina Moreologues was an \im- portant and fabulous evening.\ Junior Ca3.ly Woodard thought the play \ad<lressed deep and im- portant issue;s and wasalso humor- ous.\ The campaigil will continue next Valentine's Day when V-Day will be held in Madison Square Garden and will compile all of the video footage of ihe different perfor- mances aroJUnd the country that took place this past Mondaynight. All those interested can check out the on goin~progress ofV-Day at http:/Jwww.feminist.com/vday. 1he W om.en' s Union and all of the cast members would like to thank the c01tnmilnity for being so supportive. Also, a special thanks goes out to Shirlie Dowd and Alexis , Wassermaa for their incredible dedication to the production of The Vagina M~nologJ .. ', and to the success of\l-Day. c t] c v b 0 0 ( \ f I l t

Ql:rottorbietwi~ • Februa 17, 2000 • Pa e 5 UCEMS: Help Is on tbe Way SPAMNowCPM by MegannDenefrio Staff Writer You may or may not have seen them around camp'Us, but Union College Emergency Medical Set- vices (UCEMS) is beginning to become one ofthe most prominent organizations involved in nume:J;'~ ous aspects .of campus life. UCEMS was started three years ago by Seniors Tim Lash, Adam Murphy and Mani Daneshmand to provide medical services for Union College. They did this because no .. one on campus, not even security, temities and sororities. They also give monthly CPR and first aid classes at variQus !levels from cer- elCpected to be by the end of the year), UCEMS will be able to offer fl·ee Emergency Medical Techni- was tr!lined in basic emergency first aid. At the time, the group provided only CPR training and hockey game coverage. Now, just a few years and a lothard work later, UCEMS Yolunteers practice their lifesaving techniques. UCEMS has over forty members tified American R;ed Cross instruc- and provides medical coverage for tors for a. nomina] fee .. In cQnjunc- hockey games, concerts, gradua- tion with Campus Security, tion,: Springfest, as well as 1nany UCEMS has statted several pilot other special events, programs in the Cl(}mmunity in con- UCEMS also provides weekend junction with Pl!tuned Parenthood coverage froml 0 PM to SAM on and the .ScheE1ec tady Public ci:ao (EMT) classes at the college 1oall of it's members. UCEMS currently has many Jllans for the future, however the funds generously provided by Student Activities and the Office of the Dean of Students will not Friday and Saturday .nights and School system whe;re they talk cover all necessary expenses. hopes to. expand to Wednesday about dru,gs, alc:()hol, and sexual Currently, UCEMS is looking to :nights. On these nights, a New assault. purchase a fourwheel drive vehicle YorkStateCerti:fiedEMTis.paired . ·· UC~MSisalsoc::ontihuingtoex- outfitted with lights and frrst aid with one Qt:two Union volunteers. . pand it'sTeahu ofinv<>lvement. The eq~ipment as well as unifonrts for These · ind~v.Jdua:ls respond to all. entire organization is cliiTently go- all its memb~rs. medic~l·emergencies on campus · ing through sexli.al a!'sault sensi- Membership applications for by Gina CampaneUa Staff Writer The calllPUS organization previ~ ously known as SPAM has de- cidedto change its image. With this new image they have acquired a · new name and begun various new programs. The religious group was founded in 1996 by a group of stu- dents who decided to call them- . selves, Spiritual Protestants Active •. inMinistry{SPAM). Recently, SP AM members de- cided that they needed a new name in order to portray a more positive image oftheir group. The execu- tive members, including Shannon Arthur, the President, Alexis Franzese, Tom Higgins and Becky Moyer decided that Campus Prot~ estant Ministry ( CPM) would be a · much more fitting title. The new CPM would like to be a more progressive group on cam- pus. They no longer wish to be held back by aspects of the group · that served their predecessors needs, but not their own. The CPM has also benefited from the installment of the ·new Campus Protestant Chaplain in · 1998. VikiBtooks-McDonald fitst came to Union College in Septem- berof1998 and she has.beert a valu- able asset to the CPM and the cam- andworkcl<JSJ.?lywithsecqrjty-~d tivity training and is working this year have already been ac- pus community since her arriva:l. has gone and they feel that it will continue to move in a positive di- rection in the future. Brooks-McDonald is not only . active with her students, but she is also very involved with the fac- ulty and staff at Union College. It is her hope that eventually stu- dents, faculty and staff will be united as a Christian faith commu- nity. She also has very strong ties to the community and is hopeful that eventually the campus will be able to use its organizations, such as CPM, to benefit the surround- ing community as well as the on campus community. One project that CPM is particu- larly proud of integrates the pro- fessors and the students. Each week CPM invites a differentpro- fessor to join students in Hale House to discuss their faith jour- ney over a light dinner. All stu- dents are welcome to attend, how- ever the crowds have been a bit sparse so far. These meetings of the CPM take place every Wednesday evening at 5 PM and signs are usually placed in various areas around campus alerting students as to the location of the meetings. In addition, CPM is hoping to create an Inter-Faith Theme House on Seward Avenue next year. For information about CPM or locahu.lthoti,ties.· closely with Campus Safety to ceptedbutUCEMSwillbeopento MembersofCPMfeelthatBrooks- this alternative living situation, UOEMS·alsovolunteersandof- implementnewp:mgrams. UCEMS newmembersnextFall. Anyques- McDonald has defmitely helped contactTomHiggins(x5793)orViki fe~·s:many ot;h~1' valuable service~c js.in,:the process of applying for tions about UCEMS should be di- the group to progress and restruc- Brooks-McDonald(x6618}. ·for the 30llege::-Thes~ services m:. ., New Y{).rkStateCertffication to be rected to co-directors Adam · ture after the loss of their previous The CPM is hopeful that their .;etude m~dic~·training and alcohol/ a fttstresponse olganization. Once Murphy .and Tim Lash or assistant chaplain. The members defmitely new image and programs will help drug a~areness workshops to fra- . the certification is c<>mpleted (itis ·director Mani Daneshmand. feel good about where the group them achieve their new goals. ;t\ttFBaziltftSitp:POrttrs • ·. · -- •.. -· · -· -· · -- __ , - _ , ~ \-:~·::L ·\--·::~:;~tiationperiodmustfu- Founder's Day Sp.·. eaker C y 1 .sb ~- · · ~x;;o~ne clade both sisters' and new mem- · . . ontrz · uting rr rzter b , · · · Th' th . ers participa:titm. . ts way . ey This past Wednesday afternoon, the sisters ofSigmaD.elta Tau met with the presidents and pledge co- ordinators ofUnion's sororities at the Campus Center. They pro- posed and discussed new anti- hazing activities that could be per- formed during pledge periods. A sister of Sigma Delta Tau first welcomed and thanked the presi- dents and pledge coordinators for agreeing to meet and participate in this discussion. Following this in- troduction, a sister presented Union College's defmition ofhaz\- ing in accordance to that Of New York State Law. Hazing is defined as \any action taken or situation created intentionally whether on or off campus to produce mental or physical discomfort, embarrass- · ment, harassment... to a person.\ Hazing in the past has served as an enforcer to establish bonds be- tween new members and existing members in Greek organizations. However, the traditional practices are often very dangerous, possi- bly deadly, and irt many cases cause physical and psychological anguish. Hence, hazing has been abolished, and to force any person to partake in any such activities is considered illegal. The sisters introduced new anti- hazing activities that would com- ply with Union College's Policy, and foster unity within a pledge class while continuing to instill a sense of membership to the Greek Organization. The sisters came to an agreement that all activities that were to take place during a new can create a seru;e of uni:ty within • · both the organization and its chap- ters as well as e>ducate new mem- bers about the b.istory of their or- ganization together. The sisters also addressed how these conditi())lS could be en- forced. One p:roposal was to in- · vent a conduct code in which each · house would embrace an anti.:haz- ing policy. They stressed the im- portance of watclfing out for each other in these r.ega:rds, thus creat- ing or enhancin.g inter-sorority re- lationships. All sisters agreed that the future .of Greek organizations at Union College truly depe:nds on their ac- tions today, an.ii tliey must work together to ensure that all activi- ties abide bythecollege\s anti-haz- byGina Campanella Staff Writer Every February, Union Col- lege celebrates a very significant day in the history of the college. This Thursday, February 24, 2000Union College its Founder's Day. In honor the event, Professor Jon:aman Spence will speak in lVH:m~on:ill Chapel at 11 :30 AM. The topic of the will be Researching China~ Past in the Present, one Spence's topics of expertise. Spence has been a major source of information and con- tributkm for Time and The New Yorker, in addition to CBS News, mg policy. Coo.perationmust come. on major Chinese issues. from each sist.er in every house, Jonathan Spence began not just those that hold executive education in Britain, where he. positions. was born and raised. He at- The sisters of Sigma Delta Tau, tended Claire College in Cam- along with the Greek co:rlimunity at · bridge where he won the presti- complete understanding of society in modem China. Spence went on to earn his Ph.D. from Yale University. He prepared concentrating on the subject of Chinese history. Spence also takes a very significant interest in public education. In one of his many books, Chinese Round- about, he discusses many of his mentors in a section on teaching. However, he is still reluc- to discuss Wright, who passed away due to cancer in the early 1970s. Spence has been de- scribed as a .. brilliant speaker\ with a \gentle personality always intent putting others at \ His dedication to teaching and to Chinese society earned him a po- sition as a Sterling Pro- fessor ofHistory at Yale University that he still holds to this day. The media credits Union College, are committed to gious Claire Fellowship. This Spence as a very impor- eradicating anytra:ditional activity award was a scholarship that al- tant and integral source from pledge periods that could be . lowed Spence to attend Yale rtesy ey on China. considered hazing. All sisters · University on an exchange pro- Yale Professor Jonathan Spenc;e will In 1998, The New agreedontheimportanceofmain- · gramforoneyear. speakonFounder'sDay. Yorker printed one of taining traditi()l1S, however they At Yale, Spence met the -------------------- Spence'sreviewsofChi- rnust modify Ehese activities and woman who eventually become a his dissertation on Matteo Ricci nese society. The review concen- crack down on the practices ofhaz- very important influence on his and was awarded the Yale Univer- trated specifically on entrepreneur- mg. future. Mary Claubaugh Wright, sity award for the best dissertation ship in the People's Republic of The Greek w.omen are ardently · Ph.D. was a distinguished China in any field. China. trying to ref()rm and better the historian and the first woman to be This annual award earned him an In addition, he was invited by Greek system here at Union Col- · tenured to the Yale University fac- instant position among the Ya1e CBS news to organize and plan a lege, so that it is ilot only benefi· · ulty. faculty and Spence has remained two-week seminar that would be cial to the new members and sis- . On the completion of his year of there ever since. ters, but to the college community · study under Wright at Yale,. Spence Throughout his career, Spence as a whole. had redirected his studies to the has written a dozen major books used as an intellectual workshop for a select group of top CBS ex- ecutives.

Professor ]leaChes :ouf Cam,pus News •Fiji·Going Dry to Grade Schoolers •.• continued frtJm page 1 . well as a violation at the end of !loted, \A lot .of houses volun- FaU term 1hat resulted in a fni.. teered to set their deadlines at uor receiviug alcohol from the 2000. The houses implementing it by HannabGaw Staff Writer One of Union's own professors recently received.a great honor in USA Today for his innovative work with elementary school students. Professor Scaife, a Chemistry in- structor at Union, wa~ compared to weUlcnown television character Mister Rogers. In the February 7, 2000 edition of USA Today, Tamara Henry wrote,.\Like popular chl.ldren's tele- vision host Mister R(}gers, Charles Scaife lcnows how to grab the at- tention of youngsters and hold them spellbound.\ Professor Scaife is on a year sab- batical with his wife Priscilla, a so- cial worker. The couple is travel- ing throughout the country, bring- ing science and experiments into the classrooms of elementary schools. Their goal is to encourage young children who have expressed inter- est in the fields of science to pur- sue their curiosity, and to boost awareness and appreciation in the minds of those who have not yet received such exposure and knowl- edge. Professor Scaife commented, \One of the things: people don't know is that science is fun.\ Professor Scaife received a grant from the National Science Founda- tion for over $:50,000. He is using this money to further his work and to cover the expenses incurred by him and his wifedU:ringtheir trav- els. The Scaifes have also been founded through a grant from the ~'Like popular children's television host Mister Rogers, Charles Scaife Vtnows how to grab the attention of youngsters an_d hold them spellbound. \ r-Tamara Henrv. USA Toda__y Dreyfus Foundation, and are us- ing lulf of the professor's salary from Union. Scaife and his. wife set up experi- ments that include a great deal of invol vementon tli.e part of the chil- dren. The te$ts pose a problem that the studen~ are asked to give the.ir opinions about in order to help. solve it. F<lr examp.te,tlte Scaife's were _visiting a Mary 1and elementa1y sch<Jol and speaking with a third .gra¢e class a~ut:acommon prob- lem that they face. The ex.perimentattempted to figure fraternity. The frrstviolationre- this July are the ones that did not out how a child could. generate the . suited in a three-week proba- fight it at the last National Con- most swiugs-on a swing set during tion, the sec()nd in a ten.-week ventiop..\ recess. The students gave great sug- prQbation that started at the Dolan explained,. \There will be gestions, s11ch as taking smaller · beginningofWintertenn2000. nofmaldecisionuntilthissummer. swings or putting more we'ight on the Jglrnson explained, \If a chap- t a.1.11 confident that our many other swing. ter has been san.ctioned siuce activities will outweigh this one The demonstration was set up us~ ' Julyof1999thentheyauto:tnati- nlistake [in reference to theproba- ing string hung from the ceilingwitb · cally move to alcohol-free. tion].'; . washers of nr)dng size with weight . · There will be no exceptions.\ He cm1tinu:ed, \Regardless of tied to the end. The children would .· Johnson continued, \Na- the National decision there are count how many times the string . tiona! is in contact with the other outlets we can pursue.\ would swing back and forth during a • Dean of Studep.ts or Greek ad.- Johnson expla.ined that the while thirty secomltime frame. viser of each institution. If we some options exist, they are cer- When chang.ing the weight of the · are notified ofa disdpline prob- tainly few and tirnited. \The frater- washers taking smaller swings and · · lem then we will immediately nity needs to take an active part in pulling the string back farther and far- · react.\ .correcting problerns with alcohol. ther did not change the number of Both Dean Shurick and Deap. We are encouraging all chapters swings per h4tlfa minute, Scaife, wear- · Alford contested that Fiji's Na- to sign a contract saying that they ing a white lab coat with colorful •. tional Headquarters had been have alcohol-free housing. Viola- patches and designs, suggested that contacted about the disciplin- tions of\this require swift action. the length he chang~d. ary measures taken against Fiji Although this might appear to be As the children watched the string in the Fall term. drastic steps, we need to ensure afte~ the latest adjqstm~nt, their This is where the controversy our survival for the next twenty to counting of swings was increased erupts. ln speaking with the fifty years.\ meaning the experiment was a sue- President of Fiji, Junior Eric Johnson continued,. \Those cess. Dolan, and Senior Andy who are unwilling to meet the All ofScaiJe's experiments are con- Markowski, both expressed aforementionedrequirements will ducted using household products, views contradictory to those not be allowed to assodate with common t<» most kitchens and easily previously mentioned by the National chapter. They won't accessible to children wishing to ex- Michael Johnson at National be covered by National insurance pand and investigate their science Headquarters. nor will they be recognized by us skills. Materials used include Elmer's Markowski claimed, \They as a chapter.\ glue, balloons, and baking soda. . evaluate on a house by house When asked if the Union Col- Scaife ir> doing a great service to · basis. There is no clear cut rule lege chapter will be going dry this many young children across the United · that says 'if this, then that.\' summet, Johnson checked his files States. He is teaching kids who are . He c<>ntinued, \Everyon.e has and theh conunented, \As of right just beginning their formal education · until2002, Ibelieve.[to go dty).\ now, it appears as though the that science is an interesting and fun When asked why they Union College chapter will indeed field·ofstudy. In a way, he is the Mis- thought that some chapters be going dry~\ He would offer no ter Rogers of lab coats and Bunsen • were instating the alcohol-free further details on the subject when burners. policy this summer, Markowski probed for more information. THE NEW UNI.ON CQ:LLEGE ID'S ARE HERE! ALMOST Every Full Time Union College Student will need to ltave a picture taken for their new Union College ID card. The card wiU not make you run faster or jump higher but it will get you into your dorm. Find the first letter of your last name and come to Reamer Center room #203 on that date and time (be ready to smile). Please bring your current Union College ID or Drivers License for identification. LETTER DATE TIME LETTEB DATE TIME A FEB. 23, 20()0 8:00AM - 11 :OOAM N MAR. 2, 2000 8:00AM-12:00PM B FE B. 23 ,. 20()0 11 :OOAM - 4:0()PM 0 MAR. 2, 2000 l2:00PM - 5:00PM c FEB. 24, 2000 8:00AM - 12:3{) PM p . ·MAR. 2, 2000 12:00PM - 5:00PM D FEB .. 24, 2000 1:OOPM - 5:00PM Q MAR. 2, 2000 8:00AM - 12:00PM E FEB. 28, 2000 8:00AM - 12:00PM R MAR. 3, 2000 8:00AM-l1 :OOAM F 'FEB. 28, 2000 8:00AM - 12:00PM s MAR. 3, 2000 ll:OOAM- 5:00PM G FEB. 28, 2000 12:00PM - 4:00PM T MAR. 2, 2000 8:00AM - 12:00PM H FE·B. 29, 2000 8:00AM - 12:00PM u FEB. 23, 2000 8:00AM - 12:00PM I FEB. 29,2 000 12:00PM - 5:00PM v FEB. 23~ 2000 8:00AM - 12:00PM J FEB. 29, 2Cl00 12:00PM - 5:00PM w FEB. 29, 2000 8:00AM - 12:00PM . . K FEB. 29, 2000 12:00PM- 5:00PM X FEB. 28, 2000 8:00AM - 12:00PM L MAR.·t, 2000 8:00AM - 12:00PM y FEB. 28, 2000 . 8:00AM - 12:00PM M MAR. 1, 2000 12:00PM - 5:00PM z FEB. 28, 2000 12:00PM- 4:00PM . *DON·'T MISS AN OP·PORTUNITY: If it is not your scheduled day but there isn't a waiting line at Reamer Center #203 - Please feel free to stop in and have your photo taken.

AdVertisements ERSDAY Thursday, February 24, 2000 11:30 ·a.m~, Memorial Chapel RESEARCHING CHINA: THE PAST IN THE PRESENT Jonathan .Spence Ch \'· s . ~- . 1na ·.·. pecu111st Cl Sterling Prl)fessor of History, · Yale University 0 Author of 111ore than a dozen books on m&dern China, including 1'he Gate ofHeave~liy P~:ace, Chintl in U'estern Mi11tir, and a new biography of Mao Zedong Q Commentator on Chirra for Time, the Ne1o Yo1'ktrt CBS Ncws1 and PBS News Hout w.rithJim Lehrer Tony Branch Director of the British American Orcamo Academy will be here on .fll.!.~i.3 ... ~--~g, . at·J~_;_t_~---············ in ~-f.I~.Jiinfl '--/ He will be happy to meet with students interested in BADA 1 s progroms: 1 The London Theatre Program Presented in assO>dation with Sordh Lawrence (()liege at Regents Park lonclo11 2 The Midsummer in Oxford Program Pre5ented with The Julliard School and UClA at Balliol College, Oxford 3 Th• Shakespeare Program Presented in association with Skidmore College in StrotfO<rcJ.upon·Avon and in London Where applicable 4 Introduction to Film Program Advanced Film Program Presented by the British American Fil:m Academy I~AFA) in cass.ociotion with Vassar College ALL WELCOME Flights for Airtech Mexico/Caribean or Central Americo $229 Round- Trip Europe $169 One-Way Other Worldwide destinations CHEAP! ONLY TERRORISTS GET YOU THERE CHEAPER! Book tickets on-line at www.airtech.com or 212-219-7000 · Fresll c Yeggte $4.49 Seafood $4.99 Now available at The ·skellar

Page 8 • February 17, 20001 • «tottcodrieui!i . . ' U2K Prelitninary Report In the spring of 1998, the faculty la:rger issues that,lile Steering Com- institutional eth()s, and there needs faculty whose opinions were based how l~~g?. recommended to the President, by ll1ittee will address in the upcotn- to be a reappOJti()nin.ent of privi- on hearsay. The sorority and 2. Sh.ould rush work so that ev- a vote of iQ~weeks. We shueitatthis time legestoreflectbetterourcommit- Panhellenic leaders believe thata. er:y person who desires t<>be in a l H)- 2, that the College adopt a in an effcrt to irnite intellige!'lt dis- ment to academic excellence and, less fortnalprocess.could work and, Greekorganizationis gu~Uanteeda system of sophomore rush. The Cl()1lrse ftom srudents, faculty, frankly, fairplay. in the spirit of cooperation and -place iiJ.at·leastone organization? faculty believed that students aJuQ.llli, andstt:ffas we move for- The following principles will compromi$e,.havea1readydecided PledaJna should have a full year to adjust to l'i.'ard. We 'begin With a brief over- guide U2K in the fmal stages of that in fall2000, rush will be largely The subcommittee on pledging College lif~ before making a lifelong v·Iew of the C()rnplexity andsensi- our work as we seek to transform informal. met wceekly :for two terms, con- commitment to a social group. That tli.vity of the task a..1 hand. the Greek system into one that is The effects ·Of lllSh are more ductecl a survey among Greeks, proposal was placed before the Overview consistentwithaschool ofUnion's complicated. The disappointn;Ients ath.ieotes, theme houses and stu- Student Affairs Council who voted There are tw& ;camps at Union, cahber: can be harsh, especially for those dent()J:-gatlizations, reviewed litera- 5-4 not to endorse the plan. The ,~!though not ~-very person fits •The Greek system needs to dis- who really want to be Greek, but ture fr«Jm Greek nationals, and ar- Facul1y Executive Coill!Uittee urged neatly into one or the other. One sociate itself from groups that en- get nQ bid. The mote, significant ticles ()n 'hazing in athletics, and the president to mandate the c<tmp ardently llelieves that the gage in regressive activities such complication is how rush sorts a lettersfromGreekorganizationsar- change because they believed a Greek system is a benefit to the as hazing and institutionalized al· relatively small cainpus into homo- ticulating the benefits ofpledging. group of faculty woulti bring for- c<1mpus and tl:le ()ther sees it as a coho! abuse. geneous groups. Some ofthe fac. As their inquiry progressed it be- ward a resolution to abolish the detriment. Th()se who value the •TheCollegemustrectifyasys- ulty interviewed believe that if cameapparenttliatpeoplenotweU Greek system if we could not make Greek system Jlraise it for provid,. tern of unequal privilege in hous- Greek groups were co-ed, they acqw:inted with Greek traditions what they thought was a produc- iillg friendshiJls,asupportnetwork, ing and access to social space and could tolerate the homogeneity. , often. confuse pledging with haz,. tivecompromise between the cur- Jeadershipoppoitunities,aplaceof do whatever is necessary to make Othersenvisionedasystemofrali- mg. ?ledginghasthreernaincom- · rent system and no system at all. <C€lmfort; a p<:~pll.l<tr social life, and room for the growth of social ini- dom assignments in which all stu- porte11ts: education,. bondjng, and faced with the possibility of a the inc~ntiveto participate in ser- tiatives. dents who desired membership ,ritualistic. initiation. Hazing in ... debilitating rift between students vic.e projec,ts, government, '\Fjtcultyneedto participate more would be accommodated. Every volv~ subjecting potential mem- and faculty, President Hull ap- extractlfrical!lrs, and intramurals in the out-of-class intellectual life Greekleaderbelievedthatitwould hers bris~.suffering,.or~mbanass­ pointed a committee that included tliat comes from being part of a of the campus and the administra- be better to dismantle ,the system m.ent that, .according to theory, the recently elected leaders ofthe small, close~ka:it group, Several tion needs to support initiatives than to randomly throw people to~ causes groups to bond, Pledging, Student Forum, IFC and men and women say they have that help faculty meet this goaL gether. Some were less adamant prQperly conducted, can be aposi:- Pa:nhellenic Council, three faculty, ~airted the C()nfidence and atticu- All these cllanges do not have about co-educati<;m, but skeptical tive, constructive.activity. Hazing two administrators and one alum- l:ation io speal< to groups as !'art of to come at the expense of Greeks. whether it ·could work within their can·~ physically .and psychologi .. nus~ and asked them to recommend their Greek el(perience. Many sup- We support artd will own group. Assuming groups ca:lty dangerous and illegal. a solution. That col1ll.nittee met porters cite tb.eir right to associate make every~;;ffortto reco:unnend continue to·selectbasedonfriend- · Rational(!.forPleddng: over the summer of 1998 and pro. with whom tlley please. In more approaches th~tt'Will create new 0 p- ship, the subcommittee wondet:ed P'e()ple tend to value things they posed a compromise in which the than a few cases, studen.ts and portunities rather than diminish whether rush would be necessary eam mor.e than tllings tha,t are just Greek system would adopt sopho- alumni argae tltatthey have learned existing pro grams. However, it in the sophomore year. Wouldn •t haad.ed to thern; more rush, a new committee (U2K) more of v.altte in their fraternities would be disingenuous to suggest students know their preferences? In part, membership :iil a' frater- WQuld be formed to recommend a and s<>rorities than any other as- that we can achieve our goals with- The stud~nt leaders agreed that nity «Jr sorority is eatned by learn- set of reforms for the campus so- pect of college life. Throughout out significant disruption and ex- rush could be shortened, but coul<l ing the history, traditions, and in- ciallife and the Greek system, and the course of oar discussions, we pense. If we want to maintain, if notimagine doing away with it. net workings of the organization, the faculty would, give the reform have been m~ved by the convic- not advance, ourplace among elite The subcomniittee identified a andily taking part in projects that efforts a reasonable chanceto wm.'k tion of many supporters, who ob- liberal arts colleges (Appendix A) set ofguidelines and asked the .ex- benefit the fraternity or sorority. before considering collective ac- viouslycareverydeeplyaboattheir then we will need to change the ecutive b!)ards ·of the IFC and Membership itSelf is often con- ti~m aga~nst the system. Greek experi.en~e. way we live and we must be willing Panhellenic Colln.cil td propose a · ve:yed in someJcmtt:of'formal ini- The conttnittee that met over the Critics of tll.e Greek system be- to spend money~ perhaps several procedure fonush that Would con• tiatidnlritual.\ , . . · · · ' summer established the structure lieve it is a:n institution that is out-· · million: dollars- to promote-parity form to the principles the sub com~ The subeornmittee finds n()th,. of and recommened individuals tt> dated. Wliile i1 may have had a and·diversit:y in our residential and mittee described. Working collec- ing inherently wrong in the role of serve on the U2K Steering Com- place iu an i;llstitution that was all . social life. tiv.ely, the IFC and Panhellenic ple<lgingarticulated above. Oii the· mittee. The U2K Steering Commit- male aud botn()geneotls, the Col- · Rush Council suggested that rush other hand, itis ·-easy to see· why . tee was appointed by the President lege and w<Jrld.b.ave changed. Crit- The subcommittee on rush inter- should begin early in th.e fall tenn. haiing - both physical and emo- in the fall of 1998 and charged with ics believe th.e Greek system un- viewed Greek presidents and rush to accomn1odate a shorter pledg- tit>n:a:l- found its way into the pro-. preparing for the transition to a dermines.C()·e<l'll.cation,reinforces chairs, office:rs of the IFC and ingperiodthatwouldconcludebe- c~smanydecadesago. Member- system of sophomore rush and a code ofloy~tlty that inhibits indi- Panhellenic Coundl, and a group fore the last weekoftheterm. Botb. slrip is, in some sense, viewed as proposing a set of reforms that vidual ideas and action, and pro- of facultywh.'O teach large numbers groups would begin and end on a. strictly more difficult to'eam when W()uld preserve the traditions ()f motes alc()h()l abuse~ The critics offresbmen. They focused on-two common schedule andconductaa llaz:ing must be endured. Could Greek life that are .consistent with suggest thatah!lndful ()f fraterni- themes, the procedures for rush informalrusbprocesswithno:rnan- haz;ing make membership even an academic co~unity that val- ties enjoy lluasili.g and sociftl privi- and the effeCts of tush. Rush is a datoty activities. All rush events mol'e valued than it would other- ues open inquiry, seriousness of leges that are ll.Ilavailable to other series of social events thatprovide spons<>red by any Greek organiza- wis.e be? Moreover, co~on &uf- purpose, diversity of opinion, and student g:muJls and that the Col- a context for prospective members tion would have· to be approved feimg does; in fact, create some a broad and equitable choice t>f lege tolerates a system ofinequity. to meet members. Men demon~ by either the IFC or Pauhellenic ki11-d of bond. In brief, there is a residential and soci!tl options. In Critics also arg-ue .that the Jlresence strate their interest by visiting more Council to avoid any that might be perverted sense in which hazing in organizing for this task, the Steer- of a Greek system deters students, frequently the houses they prefer. in bad taste or contrary to College tlle Greek system -like steroids in ing Committee formed five sub- and espedaUy those who value At the end ()f the rush period, fra- rules. The sororities would con.- athletics- ''works.\ committees to focus on: ( 1) hous. indi:vidaalisrn, co-educati()n, intel- temities offer •'bids,\ invitations to tinue to use a matched bid system The subcommittee is adamantly ing, (2) rush, (3) pledging, ( 4) so- lectual:ism, wdpolitical activism, pledge, to the prospectives they because tliey believe it increases o:wosed to hazing. Butfor things ciallife, and (5) faculty-studentre- from app-lying, to the College be- want. Womenregisterforrush, and the opportunities for a woman tc li:ke hazing,and steroids to disap- lations. cause of tlte ttegative stereotypes are scheduled to visit each house. get into a house, and increases tile pear, it may well take more than a The subcommittees focused t>n. that most of society holds of Greek After visiting all houses, the indi- chances of less ·popular houses zem-toletance -policy on the part the transition to sophomore rusll, life. Wbileitisapparentth.atsome vidual and the house declare in gettingnew'tnembers. ()f the College. It will require a identifying and clarifying key is- critics area()tfully informed about writing whether ()r not they are irt- The subcommittee suggests tlte change of attitude~ based on pride, sues, and proposing preliminarr the workin.gsofthe Greek system, terested in each other. The pro- following: · · which·is-difficulttolegislate. To- ideas. They did not attempt to ad- the majority are reflective and cess i~repeated with a winnowing 1. For the 2000-2001 year, rusn day, the activity most; identified dress the \big picture\ issues tb:at speak fromaposition of deep con- group until. a match is made. The start inthe beginning bf fall tei'lll. wL-fu hazing is the fotced consump- will occupy the Steering Conunit- cern for the ft1ture of the College. matching ofpreferences is done by 2. Rush should be informal and .ti!)n efalcohol. The subcommittee tee in the next ten weeks. Each s11.b- U2K believ-es that we can main- , a group of students along with an no activity should be mandatory. feels that the College must make it committee had two co-chairs ( o11e tainGreek 'life as an option for stu- administrator and four alumnae 3. Rush activities (including the illJ.undantly clear that mixing alec- student, one faculty/administrator) dents on car:npus, but that we need who work confidentially. In both distribution ofhids) should be con-· hol and any kind of organized who serve on the U2K Steerillg significant,refonn. Simply put, if the fraternity and sorority pro- ducted m a way that does not ill.- pledge· activity constitutes hazing. Committee. we wantt<J maintain a vibrant in- cesses there are people who don~t terfere withtheacademiccotmnit- Greek organizations should also All of these subcommittee rec- tellectual:c()mmunity and compete get picked by the houses they de- ments of participants or the privacy re:alize that any individual-to-indi- ommendations rerrutin open for dis.· foran increasingly talented and di- sire or vice-versa and some disap- of non-participants. · vidual subservience is hazing. It cussion and listed at the end o,f verse stwlent body, then we need pointmentsare inevitable. 4. The IFC and Panhellen.ic is <>ne·thing to have some require- each subcommittee section are ,fur- to promote programs, practices, The fraternity procedures are so Council should carefully monitor ment of all pledges- imposed with ther issues still to be considerell and. po lie ies that support those infortnal and comfortable that there rush activities to see that they re- 11Ie consent of all members - and by the Steering Committee. N otll.- ends and n()t out those. that don't. was little criticism offered, What flectwell on the College and Gteek .qllite another to think that any one ing in the following report is nee:- Much oftb.e Greek system, in its criticism therewashad to do with system. :illdividualcanimposehisorherwill essarily going to be recommended current f()tOJ,. runs contrary to our tasteless programs designed to The following issues are still on someone else simply on the by the Steering Cotnrr1ittee to tll.e purposes. However, we cannot appeal to the base instincts of open for discussion prior to the basis of status in the organization. President. offer a ~peci:fic checklist of what post-adolescent males. The soror- Steering Committee's fmal recom~ The subcoliU11ittee forwarded The following preliminary report needs to be changed in order to ity proced.u.res s.eemed mote mendations: the following: sununarizes the w<>rk of the Sllb- remedy the: J)1oblerns. Ftmdamen- flawed, buiironicallythemostvo- 1. When in the sophomore year 1. The subcommittee be- committees and then identifies tl1.e tally, what .!leeds to .Ghange is an cal critics were male students and should rush take place, and f()r lieves that pledging can be an irn- u Po she S01 .ffil sh ·or de a:r at w te th aJ n f( Ci te v p [I n b b f 1 t 1 1

U2KReport portant element of.Greek life and ·· should be allowed to continue in some form. 2. Pledge education a<;tivities should parallel the academic mis~ sian of the College in the Bame sense that training for an athletic team should. In particular, they must allow prospectives adequate sleep, andmustnot disrupt classes or other students. . 3. Most bonding activities that do not involve hazing or alcohol are ac.ceptable, subject to (2) above. 4. Pledging should be limited to weeks 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, and9 ofthe fall term, as curre:J?.tly agreed upon by the IFC and Panhellenic Council. 5. There should be a zero-toler- ancq>olicyforhazing. Thispolicy must be dearly articulated and uni- . fonnly enforced with respect' to all campus groups including athletic teams. 6. The subconunittee is not con- vinced that the pledge education programs for fraternities and so-· rarities need to differ in any sig- nificant ways. There might, in fact, be some benefit in combining the best ofboth to achieve a more uni- formsystem of pledge education. The following issues are open for discussi.on prior to the Steer- ing Committee' sfinal recommenda- tions: 1. Is it necessary t0 have a pledge period? Why can't mern- bers learn an organization's history and forge friendships while they are mempers and in an environment of mutual participation and sup~ port? 2 •. Ifpledging is necessary, then how lol).g should it last? , Social Life The subconnnittee on=sociallife reviewed data collected from the Middle States surveys conducted on intellectual life outside the classroom, and reviewed numerous recent studies that have. been done on intellectual engagement and social and residential life. Of all the areas U2K has studied, none has rrtore common points of agree- ment than social life. It is not di- verse enough; it is too alcohol cen- tered; the Greek males carry too much of the burden and have too much influence; andthere is a need for more and better social program- ming spaces. It is irnportantto note that innovations such as the addi- tion of program assistants, turning Old Chapel over to student use, and the contributions of new theme houses have helped make signifi- cant strides. The subconnnittee believes that our goals should be: 1. To create a diverse and rich social life on campus which offers a range ofdesirable activities, es .. pecially on weekend nights. These should include: •events that are alcohol-based and those that are hot, •events for different size groups, ·ranging from \crowd events\ to more intimate small ,group events, •events that have an intellectual/ cultural flavor and those that are just for fun 2. To create equality in the abil- ity to sponsor desirable social ac- tivities between men and women, Greeks and independents. All stu- dents should have equal access to the resources needed to create so- cial life: funds, social spaces, pub- licity. They recommended four steps crucial to achieving these goals: 1. The College sh()uld develop a~1 alcohol policy that levels the ~playing field b~:;tWe~n Greeks and ind~pend:ents;. and .:ilves all stu- dents the ability to.sponsor events that include the responsible use of alcohol .. Some coJ:llfilittee members felt that this would be best achieved by having only one sys- tem for the service of alcohol at student-sponsored events; others felt that Greeks and independents having different systems for serv- ing alcohol wauld be acceptable (e.g. Greeks having private insur- ance, independents using third- party vendors.) 2. The College should create de- sirable aU-College social spaces {i.e., not in residences) which are available for general student use. In particular, they believe two kinds. ·Of spaces a:re urgently needed: a \Party Bam'; to hold large parties/ concerts, and a '1drop-in\ coffe.e- house/vub. For example the Col- lege might use a space such as the current bookstore location in the following way: Downstairs (Dublin): Pub w:ith bar (Chet' s), dark wood and tiffany lamps. Snacks available some hours. Wood booths .along walls, tables in center. Wood paneling on walls where there is now glass. Extend into arcade area to create a place for asrnallstage, · Upstairs (Vienna): Coffee..,shop atmosphere~ light wood; sofas and chairs in one section, small tables; hangingplants. Coffees, teas, juice bar, baked goods, perhaps salads at certain hours. Student art on display. A Campus Activity Board (CAB) should be .created to coordinate social activities and to.fund events. Members should include Student Activities staff, students; and fac- ulty. This would be an umbrella organization; existing social pro- gramming committees (the film committee, the concert co:rimtitt~e) and perhaps the lEG committee would be subcommittees of this programming board Theprogram- ming board would be responsible forplanJ~ing and coordinating so• cial activities on campus. Their mandate would be to fulfill goal# 1 above: to ensure that each week- end there are events available that are large and small, alcohol-based and dry, intellectuat!cultural and just for :fun. At least some of these events should be ong?ing, i.e., happening at the same time and place every weekend, and continue year to year. The student activi- ties fee should be increased and additional funds should go to the CAB .. A significant portion of this money should be designated to the Students. Activities Office, to en- able them to continue ongoing pro- gramming - i.e., to plan and sup- port events that are continuous year to year, and do not need to wait to be created anew by the Pro- gran:unlng Committee each year. The four steps outlined above, the 'subcommittee felt, would lay the foundation for a better social life at Union. In .addition, they bad some more specific .suggestions: 3. The College should have clear andconsistentrules for parties and other events. Issues like time lim- its, and security presence should be consistent across student- sponsored events. Rules should be cleat and clearly communicated, an:d enforcement should be even- handed.. There is currently a per- ception that events sponsored by Greek organizatioas are treated dif- ferllltly by Security and! or the ad- ministration than other events;. · sotheti.irtes more \leniently some~ times more strictly, but cel'tainly not consist~ntly. If the plflying field is to be level in other ways, it will be important that it become level bere as well. 4. The CoUege should faGilitate students using off-campus re- sources, by, for example: •providing shuttle service on weekends to Albany, Saratoga, etc. •organizing transportation and helping with ticket cost for events in New York City or Boston, •organizing .transportatieu and helping with ticket cost for local events (Proctor's, VanDyck con- certs in Albany and Saratoga, etc.). 5. It is .important to plan ·the tim- . ing of changes in social policy such that there is no '\blank period\ irt which Union's traditional seciallife becomes less available, but new forms are not yet supported. For · exal)lple, it would be important to build a \party bam\ before imple- menting policies that would affect the Greeks' abili:ty to sponsor par- ties. It WO\lld also be important to have alternative events in place for theprime hoursof9 p.m.- 2 a.tn. Friday and Saturday if the current Greek party life is diminished by these changes. 6. The College should improve and centralize the publicizing .of events:. At the least: •Have a common calendar for the day/weekend on the campus website directly accessible from the homepage, which includes all open events, including those in residences (and thus not requiring scheduling ofrooms), •Publish the weekend.calendar in the Concordiensis, •Display both day and weekend events in a central location inside and outside the Reamer Campus Center, •Put the dayfweekend calendar on a voicemail message at a cen- tral phone number' with numbers to get detailed information on spe- cific events. The following issues are still open for discussion prior to the Steering Committee's fmal re~om­ mendations: 1 .. Should the CAB have access to student activity fee money? 2. Will the CAB reduce the au- thority of the Student Forum or its authorized pro:gramming commit- tees? 3. Should the College require all social hosts to use third-party ven- dors? 4. Should fraternities be required to remove bars and fixed tap sys- tems in an effort to de-institution- alize drinking and to create a level playing field? Student -Faculty Relations The subcommittee on Student- Faculty Relations conducted sur- veys to determint; ways faculty and students might better engage one another outside the boundaries <lf the formal teaching-learning con- text. Students lament the absence of faculty at events they schedule, but also want distance from them when it comes to parties or living in comrrton residences. They want opportunities for infonnal conver- sation out of class, to get to know faculty on a personal level, and to have meals together. They also want places like a coffee shop, where student-faculty interaction {!Ioruorlti.ensis • February 17, 2000 • Page 9 might occur more naturally, Fac- ulty identify activiti~§ such fJ.~ dis- cussing class material or research out ofclass, casual conversations during office hours, field trips with majors, trips to professional or sl:t!- dent conferences or performances, and - most emphatically - tertJJr:; abroad as being tht; richest sources of engagement. In its efforts to analyze the data they reviewed, the subcommittee determined that students are look- ing for personal connection and faculty are mOJTe comfortable C()n- necting in a contex:t that is related to their academic role .. 1his is prob- ably due to the fact that the life o.f a teacher/scholar is. not compart- mentalized into working and leisure hours. Making connections is dif- ficult because, in some cases, fac- ulty feel shy and awkward outside of the traditional teaching-learning conte:x:t, and, at other times, tliey are occupied with their chi!Jdren and family commitments, with tlleir sch0larship, and with College ser- vicework. The subcommittee's recommen- dations are aimed at structural changes to promote activities, places or conditions that will fos- ter more interaction. The subcom- mittee notes, however, that many opportunities currently exist and could be accessed as easily as ask,.. ing, \May I sit here with you guys?\ in the upp.erclass dining hall. They specifically suggested the following: 1. The College should create a Campus Activities Board on which faculty and students serve that might focus ()n activities that will appeal to students and faculty (see appendix B) 2. The College should create- more opportunities for faculty to live rtear campus. It should do all that is possible to encourage fac- ulty to rent or buy in the Seward area, including developing a ·~buy­ back\ policy by which the College would buy houses owned by fac- ulty in the Seward area if they de- cided to move. 3~ The College should create in- centives to encourage faculty-&tu- dent interaction in dining facilities and the coffee shop. These may include discounts for faculty-stu- dent purchases, reservable meet- ing spaces for office hours or meet- ings, and a pleasant atmosphere. HCIUSin& The mission of the subcotnll1it- tee on housing was to accom}llish two goals: to ensure that the im- pact of the implementation of sophomore rush on the housillg of Greek organizatiorts will be fair, and in particular that no organ:ization will lose its housing solely because of reduced membership attributable to sophomore rush, and to address broader concerns about the equity, particularly the gender equity, of group housing assignments at the College. the subcommittee made a careful study of recent and cur- rent occupancy statistics and toured residences to classify them by desirability. The subcommittee's observations are here presented under two head- ings. Impact ofSCJphomore RllSh. on Greek Oreanizations: It is clear that a11 Greek organiza- tions are likely to experience a de- cline in membership when sophomore rush is imple- mented. When they voted to rec- ommep.d sophomore rush., the fac- ulty expressed the viewthatGreek _ organizations should not lose their housing privileges merely because of the impact of sophomore rush on their membership numbers. It is important to make clear that \housing privileges\ means the use of one of the College's group housing facilities, not the use of one particular housing facility. However, the subcommittee at- tempted to make it possible for all Greek organizations to remain .in their current facilities during the transition to sophomore rush, even if they are unable to maintain full occupancy. This, they hope, will demonstrate good faith with the Greek organizations,. but the sub- committee acknowledges that it is strictly speaking unfair. Whenever a group of students enjoy more common and social space than oth- ers, they are being granted a privi- lege unavailable to the general stu- dent population. The College, through the SAC, conducts re- views of group housing organiza- tions in order to ensure that the granting of such privileges consti- tutes a benefit to the College com- munity as a whole, not just te the members of the organization. Such groups are normally required to maintain .full occupancy of their housing, and Greek organizations that will for example be able to as- sign rooms intended for double occupancy to single individuals will be enjoying a privilege, and one that will of course be subsi- dized by students living in less privileged situations. This sort of special treatment has deep histori- cal roots at Union, where Greek males have long enjoyed exclusive control of the most attr~tctive hous- ing, .although it has been mitigated some by the additions of houses in the Seward area and on Lenox Road. The following specific sug- gestions seem to the subcommit- tee to strike a reasonable balance: For a period of two years: 1. In order to stay in its current housing, an organization must come as close as it possibly can to full occupancy. All junior and se- nior members of the organization must live in the house unless full (100%) occupancy can be achieved with less than the total membership of juniors and seniors. 2. Assuming they have all eli- gible members in residence, an or- ganization should be allowed to drop to an occupancy rate of 80% of total capacity. The num:ber of occupants, if less than the full ca- pacity of the housing, must corre- spond to the total membership of juniors and seniors in the organi- zation. 3. Should the U2K Steering Com- mittee recommend the idea of sophomore members moving into College-owned arid maintained Greek housing during their sopho- more year, this would be allowed only if there are empty beds in the group housing under the above two conditions. For purposes of the group's eligibility to stay in its current housing, sophomore mem- bers will not be counted as occu- pants. This would not apply to Greek organizations occupying housing that is either not owned or maintained by the College. In the case of these groups, should the U2K Steering Committee ap- prove the idea of sophomore mem- bers moving into Greek housing during theu sophomore year, the sophomore members would be al-

Page 10 • February 17, 2000 • Cli.ntttnrmensis lowed to move in, but would have to honor their financial commit- ments to the College for housing for the whole of the ~ophmnore year. 4. In calculating occupancy rates, Residence Life should use its normal discretion (e. g.~with re- spect to terms abroad), and in par- ticularall percentage sh<lrtfalls cor- responding to less than one mem- ber of the organization should not be counted against the group. 5. After the two-year adjustment period, full occupancy will be nec- essary in order to retain housing facilities. Eqllity in Housing: In order to address the inequi- ties, particularly obv-ious on the level of gender, in Union's gr:oup housing assignments; the subcom- mittee has drawn u.p a classifica- tion ofthe College's Cllrrentgroup housing stock, (Appendix C) and. recommends that aftet the two-year transition period the Student Af- fairs Council in consultation with the Student Forum ap-point a com- mittee of students, faculty and ad:. ministrators to update the classifi- cation and ensure that all students have equal access to every type of group housing and. that group housing assignments are reason- able, fair and equitable. The clas- sification system ranks housing according to siZie, location, whether it is free-standing, archi~ tecture, type of rooms available, and, particularly, common space available for hosting social events. It does not account f()r differences in condition of the h<>use, 9ecause those can, and probably should, be remedied. In order not to downplay poten- tial controversy, it is worth recog- nizing explicitly that, for exa~ple, the su~committee's \A\ classifica- tion of housing is currently occu- pied exclusively by groups of male!i. The committee whose for- mati()n we recommend should en- sure that this no longer continues to be true, but we hope that it will not b-e necessary to displace any group in order to (lchieve this goal. There are other ways: the College could build or acquire new \A\ - classification housing or renovate existing facilities to meet that stan- dard ~as was recently done in the case ofFero House), and diversify OCCU.])aJ,lcy of the top\' level group homing in that way; groups cur- rently occupying such housing mig}lt decide to diversify their membership. The U2K Steering Committee and the College must determine what options will be avaUable at that time to the com~ mittee they envision, and though the current inequity cannot be tol- erated indef:mitely the subcommit- tee hopes it may be rectified as much as possible through diversi- fication rather than displacement. The following issues are open. for discussion prior to the Steer- ing Committee's fmal reconunenda~ tions: '1. How should the College pro- ceed in remedying the inequity of access to big, centrally located ho~ses with lots of common space? 2. Should sophomores be pre~ dtided from moving into Greek ho1.1ses altogether? 3. Should the College take over the ownership and maintenance of all houses? 4. How will the College provide more small group living spaces'? The work ahead and an Invitatioll The sqggestions set forth by the su.bcommittees would have a sig- nificant effect on creating diverse and equitable opportunities in the residential and social life of the College and will help guide us through the transition to sopho- more rush. They can also help us to direct a.n,d preserve the Greek system in the next decade or so. However, there remain several im~ :portant issues, most of which are identified in the preceeding sec- tions of this document, that the U2K Steering Committee needs to address. In the following section we identifytwomotethat didn'tfit neatly into any one subcommittee's area. Predictably, a disproportionate number of the controversial issues focus on Greek life, and given the .sensitiv- ity of that population, we want to highlight these issues for discus- sion. It is ou,r hope that faculty, students, alumni, and interested others will share written, thought- ful, and intelligent opinions with the Steering Committee in the next three weeks. Information on how to reach us is listed at the end of the report. Co-ed Greeks The U2KS'teering Committee is divided over ihis issue~ A major- ity of us believe that more co-edu- cation in the Greek system would be positive. We agree that it would be ideal if this happened voluntar- ily and graciously, but we doubt that would happen. We are con- flicted over how and how much to bring this change about. We do not all agree that it should be uni- versal or required. We also recog- nize that this, possibly more than any other issue, will divide the campus. Committee members who do see a benefit to more co-ed Greek groups think it would address the problems of equity in housing and the planning ·of popular social events. Of greater importance, this group .believes it would promote healthier relations between men and women on campus. Earlier we alluded to the passion with which Greeks describe their experienc~, and the advocates of cO-education believe that if those deep, rich, and profound friendships existed as frequently between men and women as they do among same- sex groups, that we would be pre- paring stUdents better for the work, family, and civic lives they will face when they leave Union. Women argue .that single-seX- groups provide .leadership oppor- ttmitiesreserved solely for women and that living away from males means a cleaner,quieter, living en- vironment. They also enjoy the friendships and S\lpport they offer one another. Men speak mainly of their right to associate with whom they please, the comfort and. plea- sure they take from one another's company, and the historical im- perative of continuing these 175- year-old organizations in their cur- rent f<lrm. Men also speak .of the benefits associated with managing a gnmp and a residence, but it is not clear how a single-sex group enhances those opportunities. If we accept the argument that a college is an artificial environment created to foster teaching, learn- ing, and personal development, then bow does a single sex or co- educational primacy peer group contribute to those goals? Simply put, what are the educational ben·- efits ()fa single-sex group? If there are equally valid arguments on both. sides of that issue, then should we make efforts to intro- duce more co-education to the U2KReport Greek system? Finances It is facile to d.iscl,:ISS aU these recommendations without ad- dressing the e~pense involved. This report contained a nurrtber or' suggestions to build or renovate space for social life and more small group housing. The cost of this could wellrun into the: millions .. As the fmancial burden 10f social life shifts from the Greekorganizations to the College itself, substantial resources will be required. The potential for lost revenue from empty Greek beds. could exceed $17 5,000 a year for two years. Is the College preparedto commit the resources necessary to carry out these recommendations? An Appeal toGreeks In the past m0onth both the New Y orkTimes andhhe Chronicle of Higher of Education have run feature articles su ggestin,g the Greek systemmust e-volve if it is to survive. Union College and its Greek ins-titutions are :inextricably intertwined both: in how we share limited resources aod also in how the College appears to the outside world and prospec:tive students. We invite the Greek community to join with us in mal.c:ing creative changes- not only for the good of our community, bu..t to ensure the long-tennsurvivalofGreeklife. We take enc()utagement from efforts they have already made such as the Panhellenic Council's post~ ponement of rush this year and palpable efforts of the fraternities to monitor better tmeir parties. We welcome you::r comments and opinions as we answer these ques- tions. You may 'Wdte to us at: U2K, 306 RCC,Union College Schenectady, NY 12308 Or email us at: 112lc@unioQ.edu Appendices: i· Swarthrnore Amherst Williams Wellesley Haverford Middlebury •*Pomona Carelton B-owdoin Wesleyan +*Davidson Grinnell Smitb Claremont McKenna •washington and Lee Mt. Holyoke Vassar Bryn Mawr C'olby Colgate .,_Hamilton .,.Trinity Bates Appendix A Greeks al Selective Liberal At1s Colleges Ranked above Union in U.S. News and World Report Percent of Men 5 0 0 0 0 10 0 0 4 50 0 0 82 0 0 35 38 20 0 Macalester 0 Bamard Colorado College 2 Connecticut College 0 m.~ o +*University of tl1e Sou1h 65 Bucknell 36 Holy Cross 0 .,.*Kenyon 22 *U11ion 33 • Schools that pennit freshmen to rush + Non-residential - fewer than 2% of Greek students live in Greek ·houses Appendix B Suggestions for Faculty-Student lniiiatives · Percent ofW omen 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 70 0 0 0 0 30 21 20 0 0 0 4 0 0 55 43 0 1 26 1. Faculty-Stu:dent Field Day: One Satllr~ay during spring tenn organize round•robin to1111laments pitting faculty-stu- dent departmental teams against one a.11other. Possible events include volleyball, softball, basketball; and/or soccer. 2 Weekly Dimer Night: Designate one night of the week as \Faculty Night\ when students are encouraged to invite faculty to d.ine with them. Evening e\ents such as speakers, movies. and discussi{)n.~ could be encouraged to take place on these days. 3. Faculty Night at Cbet's: Held one on-wo times per term. 4. Brown Bag Lunches: Students and fac:11lty meet weekly (perhaps departmenlally) for informal presentationsldiscus- sions about events. issues. research. 5. Assistant Coaching: faculty serve as as.sistant coaches- in most cases for intramural sports. Students' teams can choose· from a list of interested faculty. 6. \Battle of the Majors\: Student-faculty teams compete in a q11iz show fonnat fol'ilisplay rights of a plastic Idol. 7. \Other Sid.e of the Desk\: Personal Jlrofiles of faculty in Concordiensis. 8. Job Board: Bulletin board on which Slllldents and faculty can post available orw11nled ads for various chores including sitting (this allows students access to faculty homes). 9. F~culty-student film society. · 10. Annual student-fac11lty crafl!art fair. 11. Faculty-served ''pancake breakfasts\ or \study breaks\ during ex.ams in dining· roow ()t dorm lounges. Appendix c Group Housing. Classification · The subcommittee proposes a classification of the current group housing stock based· on the loc;ation, size •. quality and attractiveness of the facilities, particularly of.their common and social spaces, tnore or less witho~~c1 regard to their current state of repair or maintenance. A Chi Psi (priVlltely rnaiutained) Psi Upsilon (priVately maintained) Fero House [Phi Delta Theta and Sigma Phi, (privately owned and maintained)] A-House 1294 Lenox Road (Thurston House) 233 Seward Place (The Symposium) Smith House McKean HoiiSe (Kappa Alpha) Edwards HoiiSe (Theta Deita Chi) A·Residence Hall Fox/Davidson \Comer Units\ (Minerva and Phi Gamma Delta) B+ House 215 Seward Place (Seneca House)' 209 Seward Place (Gennail House). 207 Seward Place (Spanish House) B+ Residence Hall Chester Arthur House Bronner Hoilse Wells House Hickok HoiiSe 8 Group housing in Potter and. Raymond U2K Subcommittees Members Housing Diane Blake Co-Chair Paula Brignoni '00 • 00, Co-Chair Ian Eletz '0 1, Co-Chair Thomas McKinney '00 ·o 1 Timothy Noonan 'Ol,Co-Chair Charon O'Neal '00, C~CI1air Scott Scullion; Co-Chair Student/Faculty Relations Nicholas Balascio '01 Jennifer Caruso '00, Co-CI1air Sharon Gmelch Francisco Grullon '01 Steven Rice Christina Sorum, Co-Cliail' !Cathryn Stefanik '01, Co-Chair Social Life Suzann~ Benack, Co-Chair Michael Capraro 'Ol Pamela Green '00 Elizabeth Kaier '00, CocC11air Mark McKee'Ol Tannya Miranda •o 1 Anthony Rubonis Jennifer Szolwinsk:i Pledging Mary Carroll Alel'.is Epstein • 01 Jon Lernle '01 Carrie Smith 'OO Alan Taylor, Co-Chair Noah Troeger '01, Co-Chair •'Three conunittees had. transitions in student leadership due to Tenns Abroad and one resignaliion. Rush Fred Alford, Mathew Barry Richard Fox Alexandra Near Aaron Seliger n,.. :~.- .. - - !II<Jr Bl< B!< Bit< CEI CJ{] CID C·t.: ·ll:Ci il:C' EE EE ES ES G~ ES ES ES ES ES llf }l'j l!'l 1'1 ~ ( l l

Page 11 • February 17, 2000 • .Q!on.r.or.hlensi5 Final Exam Schedule . - - . . - . ' -·- . . . . - . . - - . . Final Exam Schedule Winter 2000 B!!:O*l30*01 CER*035*01 Cl!M*:L82*01 C!Ql''~<l2J,*01 Ct.S*02l*Ol . ·ECO*P41*0l EC0*134*Cl EER*040*01 EER*l.43*0.1 ESC*·022*0~ 13, 200.0 ,- .. 9: 30-11:30 .AM Mo:Lecu;l;<;l:t;\ Bio Q·f Cell w/:t.al:J Intro to Psychobiology Animal Physiol.ogy w/L~ Water Resource~ & ~nvirQnment Prot:.e:in BiQ~hemis,try w/Lab Interl!lediat~ ·chinese 2 Hil!lt.ory ·of G:reece lt\icroecoJAomic Ap.aJ.ysis Financial iul.alysis cfrcui \:.S· & Systems w/Lal:J Electromagnetic Engineer:ipg 1 Mechanics II :Ma,terial Science ESCi<022A*01 Medhall.ics II:a:~at:erial .Science GRK:iri30*'01 Homer: T):le Odyssey ES'f:*013*0'1 History of US to Civil Nar ES'l'*Ol4*01 His.tory of 'O'S Since Civil Nar E$'l'ir·Q35*01 History of Europ.e 1 ES'l'*{)36*01 History (If Europe 2 IIST'*036*0:2 History o;!: Eu,rope 2 l!STlkl4e*D1· The .Law:J!lngl.bh Origins - 177G NTH*028*01 ProlJCibility l1'I'H*l.40*01 Linear Alge!Jra l'll~*Ol.6*0':!. Physics/Life Sciences 2 w/t.al::J l'SC*067*0l Race &: Amer Political Syste111 P$Y .. 038*01 Developll\ental. Psychology !'SY*046*01 Int:r;o to Ps:ycb.obiol.ogy SOC .. 138*0:l A~rica:Soc.ial. &: Demograpb.ic Mohday. 'March B. 2,00'0- 1:30~3:30 PM AAH.*034*01 19th Century European Art CSC*136*01 Advanced Pro!3'ramming Tecbnique E:C0*090*0l Economic Internsb.ips E:Co*132*0.l Labor Econo:m:Lcs ESC*Ol3*0l J:ntro to Programming J: ESC*013*02 Intro t;o Programming I ESC*013 .. 03 Intro to Programming l: ESC*Ol3*04 Intro to Programming I E'Rl!*120*01 Inter111ediate French 1 GER*l21 .. 01 Inter111ediate German 2 ITL*O'l.0·*02 B·asic Italian 1 JPN*l26*01 Business Jap~ese I MER*03.0*01 ,Dynamics o£ Systm:ns w/1·9-b 'MTH*OBB .. Ol Prog.ramJIIing with Mathell\a·ti~a PH-L*174*01 · · Bio111edical Ethics PHL*274*51 Bio111edical E.thics· PHY*066*01 Relativity/Gravity/Cos~o~ogy SOC*04B*Ol Population ~d Society Monday, March 13,. 2•000 - 4:30-6:30 PM CSC*242*51 Analysis of comp A).goritl)ms EER*220*5·1 State space• Analysis MER*260*51 Nuclear Engineering &: Tachnlgy SPN*011*02 · Basic Spanish 2 Monday, March 13., 2000- 7:00~.9:00 PM GMI*212*51 Fl.:n 1\.l:!alysis & Decision Mak:r).g GMI*225*51 Marketing Management and Strat GMI*316*5\1 Special. Topics in Accoumting HSS .. 225*51. Mk_tg & Mg~at Kealth Care Sys MER .. 200~51 Elasticity- Tuesday. March 14. :woo - 9: ·30 -11:30 AM AAH·*012*0l · Intro Art liistory - 2 - ' · AMU*Ol2*01 Language of MUsic :SI0 .. 010*02. Heredity/Evol./Ecology w/Lab :SIO .. Ol2*02 Cells &: Organisms w/Lab :SIO*l47*01 Immunology w/LalJ CER*154*01 Geo~Envirorumntl Engg Des w/Lab CHM*1SO*Ol .P~ysical C~emistry ~ w/Lah CHN*Oll*Ol ~asic Chinese 2 CSC*llB*Ol EC0*012*01 ECO*l39*01 EER*ll8*01 EGL*024*01 EGL*056*01 EGL'Ir076*01 ESC*025*0l F·RN*121*01 GE0*0.11*01 (;RK*011*01 HST*054*0l :tMP*Ol2*01 LA'1'*011*01 MTH*OlO*Ol MTH*013*01 D:igital Co111puter Design w/L®· I:ntroduct:ion to Economlcs Public Fi:cance Digital Design w/Lab Kajor American Authors 2 Shakespeare after 1600 KQdern Alnerican Novel: Electric Circuits w/Lab :C:ntermediate French 2 Earth, Life Thru T~ w/Lab Principles of Greek 2 Russia in the Imperial Age ~nt Math/Physics 2 w/Lab Principles of Latin 2 Calculus 1 - AP CalcuLus MTH*03l*Ol Linear ALgeb:.;-a & Diff Equation PSY*Ol0*02 ~tro to Psychology PSY*030*01 Personal.:ity PSY*033*0l Psych of Kemory &: Thi:nking RUSi<Ol1*01 Ea~ic Russian 2 SPN*Ol1*02 Basic Spanish 2 Tuesday, March 1~. 2000 - 1:30-3:30 PM AAH*035*01 Venetian Painting in Itl Renai ACC*OlO*Ol Survey of Accounting AMU'*Ol6*0l Uusic Theory l ANT*043*0l Anthropology of Religion BI0*040 .. 01 Fundamentals ·Of Biochemistry B:i:0 .. 160*01 Histology & Organology w/Lah CER*080*01 Construction for Humanity CER*129*0l Analys-is &: Design of Structure CLS'f'026*01 classical Literature EC0*012*04 EC0*042*01 EER*133*5l EGL*D44*01 GE0*0.20*0l l!ST*022*0l l:nt:roduction to J!lconomics - Kacro Theory & Pol.icy CollllllUnication Circuits w/Lab EnlighteDll!ent & Roma:ntid.sm Mineralogy w/Lab Civil War & Reconstruction HST*080*01 ·Construction for Humanity PSC\!013*01 Intro to Political Thoug-ht PSC*l39*0l Seminar:Political Theory PSY*010*03 Intro to.Psychology PSY*035*01 Industrial/Organization Psych PSY*050*0l Educational PsycholofJY WST*054*0l Civil war & Recon.str\Lction WST*l29*01 Seminar: Political Taeory Tuesday, March 14, 200·0 - 4:30-6 :J 0 PM CSC*077*51 Data Structures CSC*l46 .. 51 computer Graphics CSC*244*51 Artificial Intell.igence EER*228*5l Computer Based Con'txol Sys EltS*lOO*Ol ESC*069*52 GMI*226\'5l GMI*211*51 Environmenta~ Studies Topics Engineering Economioa Marketing Research ~echniques Legal/Tax Aspcts of Partnrship Horton, J, s. Weisse, c. Fleishman, L •. Snow, P. Fox, K. Ferry, M.M:. Ho;l:lmann, A. Yaisawarng, s . .Lewis., B. Spinelli, J. Chang, Y. Kilill.o, p, MiliHo, F. Mace.~ S. Miller, A.~. Feffer., A. Ka.n.sen, E. Bark, s. Walker., M. H~liday, P. Ba·rbanel, J. Taylor, A. DeBattista, If. ,weiner, T. Stanhope., L. .Weisse, C', Benefo,. lt.D. Ogawa, D. Williani.s,. G. Fried, H. Saner, M.·F. Alms.tead, L. Hannay, D. Hedricli:, J.bl. Di TUX'Si.. D I .:J. Chilcoat, A,. M. Hamm~Eb.san.i, K Federic-i, J. ~):).an, Y. Anderson 1 T., Fairchild, W. Baker, R. 'Eiaker, R: •. Marr., J, M. Benefo, l(.D. Hemmendi:nger ,D Fa tic, V, Wicks, F. Moyano, l'- Ashman., T. D. Desa·rkar, C. Arnold, D. Manna, v. PQl,lack, L. ·ogawa; D·. i'lcMulleD., D, Py.t!lll., B .. Tobiessen., P. Lauzon, R. .Laplante, c·. Ande'rsqn,. oJ. Fe~g, J.P. Traver, c. Tomljanov:l.-c;tl:, M. McCarty, T. Traver, C. S1ade, L. Stevenson, R. Pavlic, ·E. Chang, Y. Batson, C.R;. Garver:, .:r .I. Mace, S· Berk, s. Barbanel)Reicb. Scul.li.C!n, J. s Taylor, A. Roy, R. Johnso:n, :B. Benaclt, s. Donaldson 1 G. Burns.; ·D . .r. HashamoV'a, Y. S •. Moyano, P. Matthew, :t. CanaviUI,. x. Tann. l!. Gmelch, s. Chu-LaGraff, Q. Smith, G. Sargent/Ghaly- Mafi, 1!. Toher, :M. Matahar,. 1!:. Raffer.t'Y, M-C. llassib, E. Heinegg, P. Holloch.er, 11:. ll'oroughi,. A..R. Sargent/Ghaly Brown, C. Marso, t..J. Rubonis, A. Nydegger, R. Spauldi.n.g, D. Forou.gl:li., A.R. Marso, t..J. Williams, G. SpallhC{l:r:, t.. Chen/l~attheyes Gajjar, J, He l:lner , N. Grigg!J, F. DesaxK::a.r. C • Valle, K. OLIN 204 BAIL 100 BAIL :n2 :BU'l'R lOO STZH L06 8UMN 213 Hm-m 019 s;;c:t.lo4 SS~I 014 O.t.IN 306 :NWSE 116 ~~II. 201 :BAII. 201 OLIN 305 HUMN liS BA;I:L 207 COL:C AUD SSCI 103 GLIN 11:'5 ARTS. 215 tfWSE 210 BAIL 102 NWSE 114 HUMN l12 '• BAIL 3'00 BAIL l:OO BuTR 109 ARTS 215 OLIN 106 BAlL 201 ARTS 109 OLIN 306 OLIN 307 NWSE 114 OLIN 102 HUMN 014 SSCI 012 HUMN 008 HUMN QlO NWSE 222 OLIN 107 l!UMN 116 H'OMN 116 W\'SE 303 SSCI 103 NWSE 116 NWSE 114 NwSE 222 Htrn:N 008 Htoor 014 SSCI 012 OLIN 115 HUM!f 019 llWSE 222 ARTS 215 ARTS 313 ~Ait. 207 BAIL 201 SSCI: 012 STZ!i'l06 OLIN 106 SSCJ: 105:i!L OLIN 306 SSC:I 014 SSCI 103 OLIN .306 HUMN 117 H1JMN· 112 ~SE 114 Nl'lSE '2l0 AR'l!S 210 OL!N 3.07 HUMN 010 SSCI 104 NWsE 112 Hm!N 016 BAJ:L 106 BAJ:L 102 OL:IN 107 BAIL 312 BAiL 300 BU'l'R 109 HUMN 012 HUMN 008 Alt'rS 215 Bl>II. 106 All\.i'S 313 S'i.'ZH 106 . ssci 012 NltlSEl 116 OLtiN 106 BU'l'R 109 HUMN 116 HTJMN 019 SSC:I 103 MiSE 222 HUMN 115 Ot.IN 332 SSCI 014 OLIN 106 SSCI 104 SSCI 105 BAIL 300 BAIL 312 BAIL 100 SSCI 014 SSCI 105 ltUMN 019 OLIN 307 STZH 106 N'WSE 116 OLIN 110 OLIN 332 OLIN 307 HUMN 116 Tuesday, March 14,· 2000 .,- 7:00-9:00 PM GMI*2l0*51 HSS*256*51 STA*202*5l Wednesday, AM0*021*0l ANT*026*01 EcO*Q.l2*02 EGL*019*01 ENS'Ir.033*0l ESC*021*01 FRN*011*01 FRN*l3·2 *01 GER·*O:LO*Ol l!S'l'*1l3*0], JPN*l21 .. 01 LAT*137*01 MER*O 50*01 MER*062*01 MTH*057*01· ~*099*01 lf.I1H*l24*0l PHY*042*01 PHY*046*01 PHY*·051*01 PSC*048*0l PSY*032*0l PSY*'047*0'1 RUS*l21*01 SPN*Ol0*01 SPN*l2l*Ol SPN*l21*02 Wednesday, AN'l'*OlO*Ol AN'l\*Ol0*02 EER*060·*0l ITL*120*01 MER .. 035 .. 0l MER*l60*01 M'l'H .. OllA*Ol M'l'H*O.ll·B*Ol M'l'H*Ol.li3*0;l M'l'H*Ol2*01 MTH*012*02 M'l'H*015*0l MTH*.015*02 MTH*017*01 MTH*0!58*01 Financial Accountipg Group Prac )'l.dmn: Sam & Prac:t.cm Statistical Methods March 15, 2000 - 9: 3'0-11: 3.0 AM Beethoven to Beraste:i.n . Youth & Popular Culture Introduct±on to E:conomics Ma~or Etlglish )'l.utllors J. Energy :r Mechanics I w/Lab ~asic French 2 Survey:Prench Lit :2 Basic German l Popular Culture .~ Amer Hst Intermediate Japanese 2 ·Latin Epic Heat Transf.er Analysi.·s. Ther.modytlallliCS 2 Gall\e Theory Intro:.Logic li< Set· 'l'heory Geometry Icieas of Modern Pl:lysi.cs Principles of Sound &: Music Int Modern Physics w/:talJ Elas·t Europe Politics. &: Justice Sensation & Pe:.:::ceJ;)tion Health Psycholog:y Intermediate Russian 2 Basic 'Spanisl;l 1 Interlllediate Spanish 2 Intermedi\-te spuish 2 March 15, 2000. - 1 :.30-3:30 PM Cultural AnthX'O!J01ogy Cultural Anthro!)olog-y Discrebe System~ w/LalJ Intermediate Ita.lian 1 Engineering Relia!Jility Thermal/Fluid Srs Design w/LalJ Calculus with P~ecalc 1 Calculus with P~ecalc 2 Calculus with Precalc 2 Calculus 2 Calculus 2 Calc11lus 3 Calculus 3 Calculua.4:Integral Vector Appls of Math to Eco 1 PSC*Oll*Ol Int:.ro to Americap. Politics Wednesday, Ma:tch 15, 2000 ·- 7:00-9:00 PM GMI .. 217*51 Financial Management 'GMI*221*51 Managerial Economics GMI*251 .. 51 Managing People &: Teams in Or.g HSS*2B0*51 Hltb Sys Adm, Planning & Pol STA*201*52 Intro to Probability & Statist Thursday, March 16, 2000- 9:30-11:50 AM l3I0*010*·01 Heredity/Evol/J!:col.ogy w/Lab . l3I0*012*0,1 Cells &: O;rganis:ms w/LalJ BIO*lSO•oi Evolutionary Bi.ology BIO*l54*01 DevelopmentaJ. •S:Lology 'lii'/Lab CER*132*01 Reinfor:CE!!d Conc:i:'ete Desg w/Lal:J CER*l60*01 Transportation Engg W'/Lal::J FRN*OlO*Ol Basic French 1 GER*Oll*Ol GER*Oll*02 HEB*Oll*01 HST*049*01 ITL*010*0l JPN*O.ll*O! MER*033*01 Basi~ German 2 Basic German 2 :Basic Hebrew 2 Europe Between Two Wars Basic :Italian .1. Basic Japanese 2 Fluid Mechanics l w/Lab ~*127*01 Numerical Methods PSY\'OlO*Ol In.tro to Psychology PSY*025*01 ExPerimental Psych.w/Lab SPN*011*0l Basic spanish ~ Thursday. March 16, 2000 - l:30c3:30 PM CER*l43*0l Foundations ~ Constr w/Lah CliS*060*01 Death in the West CSC*037*01 Structured Programming CSC*l44*01 Functional Programming EC0*142*01 Proplema in Macroeconomics EC0 .. 15l*Ol !Monetary EconoJni.cs EC0*25l*5l /Monetary ECOI1e>mcs PHL*048*0l Jllhilosophy & c-urrent Affairs PSC*07l*Ol Civil Rights & Civil t.iberties PSC*074*01 Political Cam!)aign in America :PSY*020*01 Statistical Methods/Psychology PSY*0.31*0l Abnormal Psyc!1ology SOC*Ol0*02 Intro to Sociology STA*201*51 Intra to Probability & Statist Thursday, March 16, .2000- 4·.:30-6:30 PM CHM*032*01 Organic Chemist:ry 2 w/Lal::J CHM*032*02 Organic Cbemist:rY 2 w/Lal::J Thursday, March 16, 2000-.7:.00-9:00 PM ANT*080*5l lforth American lndians GMl*241*5l. SysteliiS Analysis & Simulation GMI*2.45*51 HanagemB'nt I,n£e>n:uation Systems GMl*25'0~51 Organizational 'l'heory HSS*20l:*5l HeaJ.tb Systelll2 Management Friday, March 17, 2000- 9~30-11:30 AM CSC*010*0l COlllputers & Computing CSC*010*.02 Computers & C<:~mputing CSC*Ol0*·03 Computers & CClmputing PHY*Ol7*01 Matter in Motion w/Lab PHY*017*02 Matter in Mot:loa w/LalJ PHY*Ol7*03 Matter in Mo.i::loa w/Lab ·PHY .. Ol7*04 Matter in Mot.ioa w/LalJ PHY*017*05 Matter in Motion w/LalJ ·SPN*l20*0l Intermediate Spanish 1 SPN*l20*02 :rntermedia.te Spanish 1 Friday., March 17, 2000 - 1:30-3:30 PM CHM*010*0l Fund Chemistry l. w/Lab CHM*Ol0*02 Fund Chemist:cy 1 w/LalJ CHM*Ol0*03 Fund Chemistry l w/t.ab CHM*Oi2*01 Fund Chemist:ry- 2 w/Lab CKM*Ol2*02 Fund Chem:ist:ry 2 w/t.ab Arnold, D. Kl.einbauer, ll,. Scbmee, J. McMul.len., D. Condry; I.R. Fried, lt. S.tevenson, R. Shanel::>rook, J. Keat, W.D. Ch.i~coat 1 A. M. Tb.omas, W. Kellenter, S. Sterngass, J. Rlban, Y. Hol:lm.an.11, A .. Som, A. ~icks, F. Zl'l'icker, W. .:Johnson, B. Roy, R. DeBattista, N. :Khosropour 1 R. McWhirter, J. l:!:i.slope1. R. Santana, M. !deg, T'. S. l:!ashamova, Y.S. Osuna, M. Camacho.~Platero, L. :Martinez, V. Fox, J.W. F'ox, .J, W. Gajjar, J. Jredexici1 J. Blinn, M.P. ·l!ffiderson, A.M. R.eyneilds, P.R. Z:immerman, K. Zimmerman, lt. Cervone, D.P. Cervone, D.P. Bick., T. ·Zwicker, W. Nie£ieid, .S. Fairchild, W. Oxley, Z:.M. Aslunan, T. D. Lambrinos1 J. Nydegger, R.V. Manna, V. Schmee, J. Bro'l<ltl, G. Rice, S.K. ·Boyer, J. Boyer·, B. l:!afi, M. Wolfe, F .. A. Batson, C.R. Kel~eDter, S. Kall.enter, S. Almog, M. l'!!Ulsen, z .. Federici, · J. Wojnovich, M. Shalllebrook, J. Cervone, D.P. Rieg, T.S. Burns, D. J. Martinez, V. Ghaly, A. 'l'oher, M. Kannay, D. Kemmendinger, D. Kotahar, El. Rafferty, M.C. Rafferty, M-~· Brown, R.M. Underwood, J. Brown, C. Greenl:>erg, S. Rubonis, A. Kaplan, :I. BoWJDa:n, R.A. Adrian, J. C. Kahley-Wolf, M. Schaefer, J. G. Bo.llmiUl, R • A • Cossey, D. Strosberg, M. Quinn, F. Almstead, L. Gl.y;nn, M. Keller, D. Jones, C. Koc>pman, R. KOc>pman, R. Surman, R.A. Maleki, s. Mosquera, D. Mosquera, D. Martinez, L .. J. Hagexman, K. Kagerman, M. Anderson, J. Hayes, D. H;UMN 112 HUMN 014 OLIN 306 AR'rS 215 SSCI: 012 ssc:r 104 HUMN 008 NWSE 116 NWSE 205 HuMN 014 ~ 016 ·HUl!N 019 BAIL 2'07 Ht'IMN 010 HUMN 213 NWSE 114 NWSE 222 BAIL ·106 BA.IL 102 BAIL 104 OLIN 107 MiSE 112 NN'SE 328 ARTS 109 BAIL 201 BAIL 312 HOMN 012 OLIN 106 STZH 106 ARTS 210 OLIN 115 OLIN 115 NWSE 114 HUMN 116 OI,IN 307 NWSE 205 BAIL 106 BA:i:L 207 BAIL 207 SSCI 104 SSCI 104 BAIL 102 BAIL 104 HUMN 019 OLIN 107 SSCI 012 HUMN 014 HUMN 117 1-roMN 116 HUMN 019 OLIN 307 BAIL 207 HUMN 019 Ot.IN i06 :NWSE 116 :ilUTR 109 OLIN 102 SSC:I 012 SSC:I 014 SSCI 014 HmiN 016 SSC:I 103 HU:MN 117 HUMN 010 NWSE 222 HUMN 014 BAIL 312 \BAIL 300 HUMN 008 BUTR 300 lltll(N 008 OLIN 106 NWSE 116 HUMN 213 SSCI 010 SSCI 010 HUMN 116 SSCI 110 BAIL 106 BAIL 300 BAXL 312 SSCI 104 HUMN 014 OLIN 115 OLIN 115 SSCI 110 OLIN 307 OLIN 306 HUMN 019 HUMN 014 OLIN 306 OLIN 307 Ot.IN 106 NWSE 114 lMSE 116 NWSE 300 NWSE 210 STZH 106 BAIL 104 BAIL 104 OLIN 115 OLI:N 115 OLJ:N 115 SSCI 104 SSCI 104 http:/ I concordy. union. edu

Controversial News oe To the editor: I am writing in resp()nse to the concerns some seniors have in re- gard to the Senior Gift. {commend the seniors who have taken the time to voice their ideas, but I would like to explain the reasons for the gift choices on the ballot. Although there have·been some creative ideas, such as the Statue of Seward and a fountain in the Olin Courtyard, these projects are far outside the feasible price range for a SeniorGift. Betvveen 1988-1999 each graduating class raised an average of $3544 for their Senior · Gift. Unfortunately, statues and fountains cost more than what the senior class could raise. Further- more, why would the school tear up the courtyard that was just put in place less than a year ago? Cam- pus planning is a complicated and lengthy process that includes nu- merous factors and difficult deci- ~ions. This is the main reason the Campus Planning Office played a role in helping select options for this year's Senior Gift. At many college~ across the cowttry, the Senior Gift is simply a scholarship each year, leaving no choice at all for the class. Instead KLT&MSM A lvf~ fv&m~S~ Spc:Lee/ A fact about sexual assault: . Over 50% of sexual assault victiiJls ltnow their assailant- but knowing your attacker does not make it a less violent crime. No one asks to be hurt or degraded. Sexual Assault is NEVER the victim's fault. . If you need help, call the Safe Space beeper: 1-800 ... 283-2255 Pin: 11349 tC' ••• As- a naib.or;aet Jiose ~· otierf~e.t\'$\ h~ve ;a,Lreac:ly -fit*Ic.J\ with my ll.i.jhS ..• ~ (~·fev.-r\'' ofo. secl.l',.,·,t-y) of not allowing seniors a choice, this year the Senior Gift ideas were developed. in coordination with the Campus.Flalllling Office in hopes that the gift is both something the college !leeds and a legacy for the Class of2000. The gift choices this year are very similar to gifts from years past Some gifts did not leave a permanent structure on campus, such as the fmancial support of the Nott Memorial Restoration Fund, the Terms Abroad Program, the 79th Ann.ual Fund, and the Nott Me- morial Renovation. All of those gifts are more fmite than benches, a map, or a college seal. Oth~r re- cent gifts include handicap access to the Nott Memorial, part of the fence 11ear Fero House, seating around the Psi Upsilon flagpole, landscaping around the Nott Me- morial, benches in the Chester ArthurCourtyard, the clock in front of the Reamer Campus Center, \Dutch~' the College Mascot, and the Gazebo in Jackson's Garden. Representative student govern- ment plays an important role\ at Union College for numerous as- pects <lf campus life, including stu- dent activities,. housit!g issues, academic affairs 1 finance, and multicultural affairs. Committees 111 r~ I ·G-2· &\'- t t\o h~ve. s e~ -w:H:b. as l'll.~b:J ~hicks 4$ f. e~n. 1 \\' . comprised of student reP'reseB.ta- tives frequently make maj()r deci- sions that affect the entire st\l.d-ertt body. The people on the Seaior Gift Committee are all hard.-worling, busy people, planning fl{)Pler()us aspects of campus life. It is \be- cause of their dedicatiom an<i in- volvement that they were: a.skedto be on the Senior GiftConrmittee~ It is ·easy for people who do not spend twenty to forty hous: a week serving their fellow stuldents to criticize their dedicated chassmates. The committee, however, di<lnot make the final decision. The entire senio.r class voted and tlioe g~ft that won received almost 51)% of the votes. The process used to select the gifts is the one used by Dl()Sf colleges. The winning clloice re~ ally is a beautiful gift Before preju.- dicing yourself against it, s-ee ith.e design f()r the gift at the unve.ilillg party and help co'Q.ntclown t ()0 days until graduation. On March 4, at &pm, in the NottMe:m:oriat th.e Senior Gift for the Class01f2000will be unveiled at the Seni~c Wine and Cheese. Join your class;mates and you will not be disapp0ointed. · Andy Markowsld Seoil)r Trllstee ll\-lr>;o; Nt! fGf Cllreer J)(t;<>/opmeut Cmla CDC Upda.t:es . . .. Resume Deadlineli 2/U: GE Power System~. CSX Finand al Managcmentl'rogtaill 2125: Deutsche Bank- Investment Banking 212$: NxVicw Technologies, Software Engineer. Cornptater ScienCt? majoi·s, tesume and transcl'ipt - New Addition to Recruiting Schedule! Mernorial Sloan Kettimting Ca11cer Center: see our website for det~1i ls or stop by tll.e CDC. 2/21: l'homson Financiallnfo Sessic.HI: Careers in Finllt\dcll Consulting, 7pm, CC205 2122: Careers in Mtt:seuills/ilistoric l)resctv~thm. fea:tlll'i ng alumna Anne Cassidy, l2:30pm; CC 203 2122: Career Opportun.ities in Advertising and. ).'ubl.i.:! Rel=ttions featuring Dmnc Perlmutter, CEO of Coho and W()tfe/New York, a major NYC public relations fit·m, 4?M, CDC 2122: Ethics in Advertising: An Ox_ym.,.ron? for MBA <tndothei· interested students, wtth Dimic Perlmutter. 5: l5PM. TB A · 2122: Maplnfo Information Session. 7PM. CDC for st udcnts Wtth technical abilities · 2123: Environmental Careers Outreuoeh 1ahle. II.: 30- t • CC' Att'ium UZ.3: ''The Job Search ••. Where D() [Go F1·om Hea·e:?\ 7:PM, CDC. ,. .. OI .::~~c.•:;:- .. ~ ·:...:: . . ,-_.., \\ 0 Gee plar nan Un: fon can ing ofj4 Go· her liti' ate six1 oar tio: re~ rer flu gn tra pa ra1 ou m• ki th S(J th

Controversial News KLT&MSM Herd$ llelti .. d fho 01'1 c;~ •• --8-o '1 ali e.s., yo v. Toe> vr;!l he ehe.kcih:J Otlf :JJ:rl.t in 1iknis- a.hd 1e.slde.s ~ ~I[ , 1 if\ l.s· a-re :b i s-e:x-ll c;tl any..wa.y .. - ,, To the editor: I am writing in response to the concerns some seniors have in re- gard to the Senior Gift. I commend the seniors who have taken the time to voice their ideas, but I would like to explain the reasons for the gift choices on the ballot. Although there have been some creative ideas, such as the Statue ofSeward and a fountain in the Olin Courtyard, these projects are far outside the feasible price range for a Senior Gift. Between 1988-1999 each graduating class raised an average of $3544 for their Senior Gift. Unfortunately, statues and fountains cost more than what the senior class could raise. Further- more, why would the school tear up the courtyard that was just put in place less than a year ago? Cam- pus planning is a complicated and lengthy process that includes nu- merous factors and difficult deci- sions. This is the main reason the Campus Planning Office played a role in helping select options for this year's Senior Gift. At many colleges across the country, the Senior Gift is simply a scholarship each year, leaving no choice at all for the class. Instead AM~ FvOWliS~ sp(A,C£/ A fact about sexual assault: Over 50% of sexual assault victims know their assailant- but knowing your attacker does not make it a less violent crime. No one asks to be hurt or degraded. Sexual Assault is NEVER the victim's fault. If you need help, call the Safe Space beeper: 1-800-283-2255 Pin: 11349 flte l>aily:folf t:'ort~m ... t\ ••• As- a ~ati.aofac.t fltos-e ~ o-ller-f~e:r.-s­ h<l.ve alread-J \ht*keJ -w.L\h my h. '-j h s- ... ~ (refe.-..-;,, -lo :sec c;.rit-y) of not allowi!lg s.eniors a choice, this year the Sen.br Gift ideas were developed in c-oordin.ation witb the Campus Plannir1g Office in h.opes that the gift is \)oth. something the college needs amda legacy for the Class of2000. The gift choices this year are very .similar to gifts from years past. Some _gifts did not leave a permanent stru<:ture on campus, such as the fna11cial support of the Nott Memori:al Resteration Fund, the Terms A or()ad Program, the 79th Annual FuncL,and the Nott Me- morial Renowation. All of those gifts are more finite than benches, a map, or a coHe_ge seal. Other re- cent gifts incJttd.e handicap access to the Nott Memorial, part <Jf the fence near Pero House, seating around the Psi lJpsilon flagpole, landscaping around the Nott Me- morial, bencehes in the Chester Arthur Courtyard, the clock in front of the Reamer Campus Center, \Dutch\ the C()<Jlege Mascot, and the Gazebo iJJ Jackson's Garden. Representative student g<Jvem- ment plays aru important role at Union College f<lr numerous as- pects of cam.-pu; life, including stu- dent activities., h.ousing issues, academic affllirs, finance, and multicultur<~l affai.Is. Committees l l l L\hl\ \, tll' • r( r \'a.'l'a.t to h-ave .s e)(. wilh as b-.!l.-y (; h.icks -as [ e:~n I .1.7 . comprised of student representa- tives frequently make major deci- sions tha,t affect the entire student body. The people on the Senior Gift Committee are all hardworking, busy people, planning numerous aspects of campus life. It is be- cause of their dedication and in- volvement that they were asked to be on the Senior Gift Committee. It is easy for people who do not spend twenty to forty hours a week serving their fellow students to criticize their dedicated classmates. The cormnittee, however, did not make the final decision. The entire seni<Jr class voted and the gift that won received almost 50% of the votes. The process used to select the gifts is the one used by most colleges. The winning choice re- ally is a beautiful gift. Before preju- dicing yourself against it, see the design for the gift at the unveiling party and help countdown 100 days until graduation. On March 4, at 8pm, in the Nott Memorial the Senior Gift for the Class of200() will be unveiled at the Senior Wine and Cheese. Join your classmates and you will not be disappointed. Andy Markowski Senior Trustee Czr,w [l,•t·,·lopltl,~ril CcJJ:t~tl CDC Updat:es • • • Re~umc Deadlines 2/lS: GF .. Pt»wer Systems. CSX Financi:tl Management Progmrn 2/25: l)ellJts~IJe Bank · Investment Banking. 2/25: Nx\Vie\v'fcchnologies. Software Engineer. Computer Scierwc rnajors. resume and transcript New Additioli to Rccrui ti ng Schcduk: Memorial Sloan Kettering (\meet· Cerntf.)r: sec our wcbsit~ for d~tai Is or stop by the CDC. 2/21: Tholtl!s()n l'inandal lnro Sessi()n: Careers in Finane tal Cotlsultillg.. 7pm. CC20) 2/22: Ourl!~r.s in Museums/Historic Prcst>nation. featuring: alu rnn a Anne Cusstdy. !2:30pm, CC ::.o~ 2/22: (;u;r.:~r Opportunities in Ac~~~rtis_in.g and Puh,lic. Re~1ttions fctL\urmrlg Drane P(!rlmutlcr. ( 1:0 ot ( ohn and \\ollc/Ncw YOTk., a rnajm NYC publll' n~lations firm. 4PM. CDC ];!22: Et hicli int\<lvcrtisill!P An Oxymoron? rm~ l\1BA Ul)d ()\her imoer-c~tcJ students. wllh Dtanc Perlmutter. :-- I :\PM fBt\ 2/22: :\la;>Hnfo lnfortmllion St.•ssitm.7P:'v1. <'DC·. lor ~lll<knts wlth tc.~ll!tllc<rl ahilitrcs. 2/23: Envirmltnlcnlltl Careers Outrcud1 Table.•. 11· ~0-1. CC' i\t:rilltl11 2/23: ••'l'he- ,lt)b Searcb •.. Where Do I Go Fmm Here?\. 7PM. CDC Of - E 0 Geo plan nan• Uni forr can: ing: ofjc Go' her: litic ate sixt car tiOI rea ren flu gre tra pa: rat ou me ki( q th; :I ·' so th a· to ti< pc g< hi II ! i f (..:. \ l .. I I ~ ' 1: ( \ l . ! ,1

OP/ED QI111tC.ni'timsi!9 o February 17, 2000 o Page 13 Bush's Latest Campaign Ploy Candy, Roses,, Relationships, Love . by MichaelS~ Mc.Guire . Copy Editor · On Tuesday, F'e.bruary ·15, George W. Bush announced .his plan to overhaul the cmnpaign fi~ n:ance system in the United States. Re- form-minded Ameri- cans are left wonder- ing: Is this some sort of joke? Can the Texas Governor, who has in~ berited all of the po- litical ties that .gener- ated the more than sixty million dollars of campaign contribu- tions from his father, really be expected to remove lobbyists' in- fluence from Con- gress while it is :in session, banthe transfer of funds from one cam- paign to another, and ban corpo- rate and union contributions with- out approval from those whose money they ate spending? Is he kidding? Does he really believe that the American voting public is so naive? We mu~t not be duped. Despite the fact that he has been elected to a federal office, he is a Washing- ton insider. His political connec- tiolls comprise the base ofhis sup- port, since over twenty Republican governors are attempting to hand him the nomination. Americans will not allow it, how- ever, because in the Unit~ed States ' we cannot permit a <;oron&tion. We willn~t permit someone t.ohuy the presidency so blatantly, John McCain has gained supp10rt based upon his record of support for true campaign fmance reform and vet- erans' issues, and his ta:x plan that wouldn't give priority .to the ri:'ch. He is honest and that is refresh- ingly different in today 's political climate. George W. BliSh is vague at best on most issues .. When he · was campaigning in independent- minded New Hampshire:, he is mod- erate, but now that he is in conser- vative South Carolina,. he is a de- vout Christian that supports con- servative issues. He changes his mind and his stances even as his supporters in Congres5 and other places question why he has not confronted McCain 011 the issues, even areas in which McCain is weak. How can he· possibly win in a · general election when he must ap- · peal tp the entire n_ation at once'? · He cannot, and that is why polls sh.ow Senator McCain defeating Vice President Gote and. former Senator Bradley by far greater mar- gins. Bush's latest · appeal to Ameri- cans' campaign interests is noth- ing more than ~n . attempt to take away his greatest : difference with . John McCain; in : fact, it h McCain's most popular issue. · Bush has seen the on Valentine's Day by Michaela, Cautela Staff Writer OK, I admit it. I am a girl. And I · don't just mean genetically, al- though I ':m sure that must be the reason why I am a complete sucker for Valentine's Day. Flowers make me swoon. The idea .of sexy red lingerie excites me. Chocolate .... well, any day is good for choco- late. But the buzz that happens February 14 is kind oflike every girl in the world simultaneously an- ticipating her birthday. And it's success McCa.i11 great. Youdon'tev:enneedtohave bas had with the a boyfriend. Although it is nice, I issue, which he has opposed for know just as many candy, flowers, so long, and has decided to .steal and cards that were sent from girl it. to girl than from boyfriends to girl- The questionis now not is this a friends. joke, since it must be, but rather Fortbe longest time I really com- willBushcontinue:topaintMcCain misemted with all of the guys in as a liberal even as he adopts the world who felt compelled to McCain's roost liberal posjti()n'? show their love and affection on Will his next move b~ to propose a this day, through whatever means common sense tax cut that will ben.- they chose. I was always under efit ALL Americans? the impression that in a real rela- The reason Governor Bush is al- tionship, every day would be ways a step behind Senator . Valentine's Day, and there wasn't McCain is simple: Bush is theRe- • this need for a superfluous re- publican Bill Clinton, and will die- m,inder. It was alrrtost like the guys tate policy in the same manner in are socially pressured to treat their which he dictates campaign issues women like princesses on thisspe- - by the cific day, regardless of whether or Disturbing E·Iements of Daily Jol·t not they are even happy in their relationships. Valentine's Day is sometimes even used as a tool by do have s·omeone to celebrate Valentine's Day with (but no, fear not, I am not going to launch intCl a tirade about how I can't live with- out this person and he is my soul mate, etc. Iamjustnotthatcheesy}. But it was nice to get the flowers, and the card, and the candy, and the reminder. And it was just as nice to see everyone amund me feeling the same way. I think that Valentine's Day has evolved. As I mentioned before, there are just as many times when gifts are ,ex- changed in non-romantic relation- ships, as when they are. If you happened to be in the Ounpu.s Cen- ter on Monday around noon, you could barely even walk through the lobbybecausetheHne forthepack- age window extended well past the stairs, to the bookstore, .and wrapped around the comer. The ground was littered with pink things, and 1 even saw someone carrying about fifty balloons some- where. Everywhere you went, people were carrying roses, cards, candy. People wishing each other \Happy V-Day,\giving each other hugs, reminding ·people how much they are loved. I personally had a mailbox full of ,things, and more waiting for me whe1;1 I got home, and my boyfriend doesn't even g~» to Union. Some say that it i~> too commercial, and maybe it is. Maybe it is unnecessary, but sorry, guys (and girls) out there who don ':t be- lieve in Valentine's Day- if this is what it does to people, then I don't see anything wrong with it. .by Gina Campanella Staff Writer So, Union College gets this new Web site.ltis controversial atfrrst, but hey, the kids like it. Soon it be- comes a forum for unfounded and Uninformed criticism of the schoo 1. Eventually it evolves into a virtual third grade pla:y:ground of immature personal attacks. I have thought and thol1ght, but I cannot see why people. would sink to such humiliating levels of ~ttirity. Then 1 realized that no one has to identify himself or her- self in this forum. People use this as an outlet to vent their immatu- rity and frustration without having to deal with any of the conse- quences. To these people I have a short List of various points of ad- vice: 1. GROW ASPINEANDGROW UP. If there is something thatyou don't like, then deal with it in an adult manner. Find some sort of productive way to tnake a change. Of col.I!Se, you will have to risk the fact that people may just know who you 'are and <<gasp>> people may disagree with you (oh no!!)~ I know it is .sca:Iy to think that the whole campus won't approve ofyou but · hey, I guarantee you, it isn't that bad! 2. Discover life beyond the elu- sive \web.\ Who seriously has the time to sit and su:rf the Daily Jolt looking fm; different topics about witch they can complain anonymously? Maybe if you got a little more involved in. things that you enjoy doing on -campus you wouldn't feel the nee() to complain so much. Which lead& me to my nextpoint. 3. If you don't like it here then . LEAVE. I am fully aware ofthe fact that this is much easier said than done. However, aU of that time you spend writing obnoxious come- ba~ks and criticisms could be spent downloading tl'ansfer appli- cations and researching other col- leges to download transfer paper~ from. 4. Finally,pleaserememberthat this is not a Union College Web site and that all of the entries on this site can be viewed by anyone, anywhere. I am truly able to say out loud, with witllesses (you're shocked, I knovr) that I arrt ashamed of the majority of what I read on the Daily J\lt. So far, the student body ofUnilln College bas made itself appear Like a bunch of raciest, classless, <dcoholic little brats. I honestly do not believe that this is a true representation of my college. An important fact that is often forgotten when the wonderful privilege of \anonymous\ is be- men to get back into the good stowed upon people is that your graces .of their significant others words are representations. (hint, hint, boys). Even though you may not be Maybe I am biased. This year I brave enough te attach your name lr:======================================= to what you are writing, please con- sider the fact that your statements are representative of our College and of our student body. I am go- iilg to assume that the majority of students CHOSE to come here. You should hav~ enough p1:ide and confidence in your decisions to respect yourself and you,r own decisions. If you cannot respect yourself, at least respect yoUI fel- low students. It is not fair to any- · one to have such a horrible repre- sentation of our college on th.e Internet, accessible to anyone. 'l am urging all Union students to stop sitting around complaining and to instead be active in trans- forming those aspects of Union that they do not like. By doing this, you will be redi- recting all of the energy you use tarnishing tlte Union College im- age on a public forum to instead make a difference and in the mean- time you might actually ENJOY something. · · If anyone feels that they do not have enough self respect and con- fidence to accept this challenge · then I will simply have to a:sk that person to consider their fellow stu- . dents and consider showing them the respect they deserve. CIInn.c.or.bi.ensis The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper http:l/concordyounionoedu Brooke M. Barylick• David C. Brooks, Jr. EDITORS-IN-CHIEF Jessica Zuehlke NEWS EDITOR · KatrinaTentor OPINIONS EDITOR Brian Terlinsky Raehel Bukowski SPORTS EDITORS Lori Greene Kimberly Rohback A&EEDITORS Kaelyn South PROMOTIONAL MANAGER Sloan Miller Aaron Seliger PHOTO EDITORS Jaime Chandler EXECUTIVE EDITOR Jason Putorti WEBMASTER Eugene Schultz FEATURES EDITOR Sloan Miller SCiENCE & TECH E!J!TOR Neil Routman WORLD NEWS EDITOR Michael S. McGuire COPY EDITOR Dauielle Devine Amanda Jackson ADVERTISEMENT COORDINATORS Erika Mancini EDITORIAL CARTOONIST Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR PHOTOGRAPHERS: Calvert Crary, Elizabeth Daigle, Mcgann Denefri~. Katie Hais, Katie James, Dave Meguerdichian. S1AFF: Matt Aronowitz, Steve Ayers, Jessica Bre~uton, .Beth Brogan, Gina Campanella, Micl1aela Cautela, Dan Centi, Merillith Chace., Pllilip Cho, Jim DeWan, Kristina Dorne, Mary Felton, Frank Filiciotto., Fra11k Flaherty, Stephen Flaherty, Peter Flynn, Hannah Gaw, Matt Cendrou, lbvid Gruner, Deric Harrington, Brian Kern, Cory Kiefer, Da11 Kirsll, Allyson Kohlmann, Alexandra Lohse, Jess Miller, Stephen Nemetl1~ F~t.lrim . Noor, Hillary Olk, Steve Scluiler, Mark Sbemel, Jeff Silver. Jessisca Stephens, Lee Stevens; Sanskriti Thakur, Charles Tutllill, Vinny V~leti, 'Kristen Zadourian.

OP/ED Bush's Latest Campaign Ploy by Michael S. MeG uire Copy Editor On Tuesday, February 15, George W. Bush a:llllounced his plan to overhaul the campaign fi- nance system in the U Rited States. Re- ever, because in the United States we cannot permit a coronation. We will notpermitsomeone to buytlle presidency so blatantly. John McCa1n has gained support based upon his record of support for true campaign finance reform and vet- How can he possibly win in a general election when he must ap- peal to the entire nation at once? He carutot, and that is wlly polls show Senator McCain defeating Vice President Gore and former Senator Bradley by far greater mar- gins. Bush's latest form-minded Ameri- cans are left wonder- ing: Is this some sort ofjoke? Can the Texas Governor, who has in- herited all of the po- litical ties that gener- ated the more than sixty million dollars of campaign contribu- tions from his father, really be expected to ~·Bush is the Republican Bill Clinton, and will · dictate policy in the same manner in which he appeal to Ameri- cans' campaign interests is noth- ing more than an attempt to take away his greatest difference with John McCain; in fact, it 1s McCain's most popular issue. dictates campaign issues -· by the polls .. '' Bush has seen the success McCain has had with the remove lobbyists' in- fluence from Con- gres s while it is in sessi<m, ban the trallsfer of funds from one cam- paign to another, and ban corpo- rate and union contribu.tions with- out approval from th<Jse whose money they are spending? Is he kidding? Does he really believe that the American voting public is so naive? We must not be duped. Despite the fact that he has been elected to a federal office, he is a Washing- ton insider. His political connec- tions comprise the base of his sup- port, since over twenty Republican govemors are attempting to hand him the nomination. Americans will not allow it, 1low- erans' issues, and his tax plan that wouldn't give priority to the rich. He is honest and that is refresh- ingly different in today's political climate. George W. Bush is vague at best on most issues. When he was campaigning in independent- minded New Hampshire, he is mod- erate, but now that he is in c<Jnser- vative South Carolina, he is a de- vout Christian that supports con- servative issues. He changes his mind and his stances even as his supporters in Congress and other places question why he has not confronted McCain on the issues, even areas in which McCain is weak. issue, which he has opposed for so long, and has decided to steal it. The question is now not is this a joke, since it m1:1st be, but rather will Bush continue to paint McCain as a liberal even as he adopts McCain's most liberal position? Will his next move be to propose a common sense tax cut that will ben- efit ALL Americans? The reason Governor Bush is al- ways a step behind Senator McCain is simple: Bush is the Re- publican Bill Clinton, and will dic- tate policy in the same manner in which he dictates campaign issues -by the polls. Disturb-ing Elements of Daily Jolt by Gina Campanella Staff Writer So, Union College gets this new Web site. It is controversial at ftrst, but hey, the kids like it. Soon it be- comes a forum for unfounded and uninformed criticism of the school. Eventually it evolves into a virtual tllird grade playgrowtd of immature -personal attacks. I have thought and thought, but I cannot see why people would sink to such humiliating levels of immaturity. Then I realized that no one has to identify himself or her- self in this forum. People use this as an outlet to vent their immatu- rity and frustration without having t<J deal with any of the conse- quences. To these people I have a short list of various points of ad- vice: 1. GROW A SPIJ'ffiAND GROW UP. If there is something that you don't like, then deal with it in an adult manner. Find some sort of productive way tofJlake a change. Of course, you will have to risk the fact that people may just know who you are and <<gasf1>> people may disagree with you (oh no!!). I know it is scary to thinl that the whole campus won't approve of you but hey, I guarantee you, it isn't that bad! 2. Discover life beyond the elu- sive \web.\ Who seriously has the time to sit and surf the Daily Jolt looking for different topics about witch they can complain anonymously? Maybe if you got a little more involved in things that you enjoy doing on campus you wouldn't feel the need to complain so much. Which leads me to my next point. 3. If you don't like it here then LEAVE. I am fully aware of the fact that this is much easier said than done. However, allofthattirne you spend writing obnoxious come- backs and criticisms c<Juld be spent downloading transfer appli- cations and researching other col- leges to download transfer papers from 4. Finally, please remember that this is not a Union College Web site and that all of the entries on this site can be viewed by anyone, anywhere. I am truly able to say out loud, with witnesses (you're shocked, I know) that I am ashamed of the majority of what I read on the Daily Jolt. So far, the student body ofUnion College has made itself appear like a bunch of raciest, classless, alcoholic little brats. I honestly do not believe that this is a tme representation of my college. An important fact that is often forgotten when the wonderful privilege of \anonymous\ is be- stowed upon people is that your words are representations. Even though you may not be brave enough to attach your nam.e to what you are writing, please con- sider the fact that your statements are representative of our College and of our student body. I am go- ing to assume that the majority of students CHOSE to come here. You should have enough -pride and confidence in your decisions to respect yourself and your own decisions. If you cannot respect yourself, at least respect your fel- low students. It is not fair to any- one to have such a horrible repre- sentation of our college on the Internet, accessible to anyone. I am urging all Union students to stop sitting around complaining and to instead be active in trans- forming those aspects of Union that they do not like. By doing this, you will be redi- recting all of the energy you use tarnishing the Union College im- age on a public forum to instead make a difference and in the mean- time you might actually ENJOY something. If anyone feels that they do not have enough self respect and con- fidence to accept this challenge then I will simply have to ask that person to consider their fellow stu- dents and consider showing them the respect they deserve. C!hnu:nrhltn!!'i9 • February 17, 2000 · Page 13 Candy, Roses, Relationships, Love on Valentine's Day by Michaela Cautela Staff Writer OK, I admit it. I am a girl. And I don't just mean genetically, al- though I'm sure that must be the reason why I am a complete sucker for Valentine's Day. Flowers make me swoon. The idea of sexy red lingerie excites me. Chocolate .... well, any day is good for choco- late. But the buzz that happens February 14 is kind oflike every girl in the world simultaneously an- ticipating her birthday. And it's great. Youdon 't even need to have a boyfriend. Although it is nice, I know j11st as many candy, flowers, and cards that were sent from girl to girl than from boyfriends to girl- friends. For the longest time I really com- miserated with all of the guys in the world who felt compelled to show their love and affection on this day, through whatever means they chose. I was always under the impression that in a real rela- tionship, every day would be Valentine's Day, and there wasn't this need for a superfluous re- minder. It was almost like the guys are socially pressured to treat their women like princesses on this spe- cific day, regardless of whether or not they are even happy in their relationships. Valentine's Day is sometimes eveR used as a tool by men to get back into the good graces of their significant others (hint, hint, boys). Maybe I am biased. 1bis year I do have someone to celebrate Valentine's Day with (but no, fear not, I am not going to launch into a tirade about how I can't live with- out this person and he is my soul mate, etc. I am just not that cheesy). But it was nice to get the flowers, and the card, and the candy, and the reminder. And it was just as nice to see everyone around me feeling the same way. I think that Valentil'le's Day has evolved. As I mentioned before, there are just as many times when gifts are ex- changed in non-romantic relation- ships, as when they are. If you happened to be in the Campus Cen- ter on Monday around noon, you could barely even walk through the lobby because the line for the pack- age window extended well past the stairs, to the bookstore, and wrapped around the comer. The ground was liUered with pink things, and I even saw someone carrying about fifty balloons some- where. Everywhere you went, people were carrying roses, cards, candy. People wishing each other \Happy V-Day,\ giving each other hugs, reminding people how much they are loved. l personally had a mailbox full of things, and more waiting for me when I got home, and my boyfriend doesn't even go to Union. Some say that it is too commerciaL and maybe it is. Maybe it is uiUlecessary, but sony, guys (and girls) out there who don't be- lieve in Valentine's Day- if this is what it does to people, then I don't see anything wwng with it. <ll.on.cnr.hi.ensis The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 18 77 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper http://concordy.union.edu Brooke M. Barylick- David C. Brooks, Jr. EDITORS-IN-CHIEF Jessi&:a Zuehlke NEWS EDITOR Katrina Tentor OPINIONS EDITOR Brian Terlinsky Rachel Bukowski SPORTS EDITORS Lori Greene Kimberly Rohback A&EEDITORS Kaelyn South PROMOTIONAL MANAGER Sloan Miller Aaron Seliger PHOTO EDITORS Jaime Chandler EXECUTIVE EDITOR Jason Putorti WEBJvJASTER Eugene Sl:hultz FEATURES EDITOR Sloan Miller SCIENCE & TECH EDITOR Neil Routman WORLD NEWS EDITOR MichaelS. McGuire COPY EDITOR Danielle Devine Amanda Jackson AD VERT!SEMENT COORD!l'IATORS Erika Mancini EDITORIAL CARTOONIST Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR PHOTOGRAPHERS Calvert Crary, Elizabeth Daigle, Megann Denefrio. Katie Hais, Katie James, Dave Meguerdichian. STAFF: Matt Aronowitz, Steve Ayers, J essira Brearton, Beth Brogan, Gina Campanella, Michaela Cautela, Dan Centi, Meridith Chace, Philip Ch(), Jim DeWan, Kristin& Dorne, Mary Felton, Frank Filiciotto. Frank Flaherty, Stephen Flaherty, Peter Flynn, Hannah Gaw. :\1att Gendron. Dnid Gruner, Deric Harrington, Brian Kern. L()ry Kiefer, Dan Kirsh. Allyson Kohlmann, Alexandra Lohse, Jess Miller. Stephen \iemeth. Fari.m N<>ar, Hillary Olk, Steve S~:huler, Mark Shemel, Jeff Silnr, ,lessis~a Stephens, Lee Stevens, Sanskriti Thakur, Charles Tuthill. \'inn~ Voleti, Kristen Zadourian.

Ca~sHom~iO~p~-t-io~n~~~W~h~a~t~to~C~h~.o~o~se~_--T·,~h~e~P-·-~e-~~· 5 ~_ 0 ~_-_~h~.-~~-~. 1 - __ 5 ~_-.J men ended up contacting Resi- ofthis,sheplanstoliveinWebster - I J J 4 . by Kathy DelSavio Contributing Writer As the winter term fmishes up its last few weeks, we are all begin- ning to ponder the important ques- tion that has arisen in our minds: \Where do I want to live next year?\ For some of us this is a crucial decision, because our liv- ing arrangements are just as impor- tant as our classes and schedules. When it comes to living arrange- ments, we won't settle for just any- thing. We want a \home a place where we can go after a hard day and just unravel our minds and rest. Most importantly, we want a place where we can comfortably interact with the other residents within our building and just be our- selves. In this art1cle I will look at the different housing options available for students, and which ones are preferred by cert~in types of students. Union College offers a wide range of places to live on campus. These are included among theme houses, dormitories, or Greek fra- ternities/sororities. Most freshmen end up being assigned to dormito- ries, such as West or Fox, in which they have one or more roommates. Because of this, freshman year could be either the best time of your life or the worst. Based on your personality, and the fact that you were forced to live among people you have never met before, you were either quick to fit in or not. For those of you who love to so- cialize and are outgoing by nature, having new faces around you was a thrill. You jumped at the oppor- tunity to meet all these new people and to socialize. For others, who are naturally quiet, shy, and intrp- verted, it was very difficult to make friends and adapt to the new sur- roundings that encompass dorm life. Because of this, many fresh- dence Life and trying to move out House once again. She said, of their cmrent arrangements, and \Webster Ho11se is really quiet, the into one that suited themmore com- people are reaJiy nice, and I don't fortably. Unfortunately for fresh- hav:e to deal with the noise of men, we don't !mow what to ex- people partying all night.'' She also pect when we come to Union for said that she :tikes the fact that the first time, and sometimes it may Webster H()use has a substance- be too late to switch. After your free policy, in which the stadents freshman year, though, it is a lot sign a contract and agree to keep easier to cb.oose where you want alcolw 1 and other drugs out of the to live, because by then you would house. She likes this because it have had the opportunity to visit allows her t(} be around people who the other places on campus. You are like her and who believe in the would have also gotten the oppor- same things. tunity to make close friends and Alina Samuels and Chelsi get a \feel\ ()[what's right for you. Stevens, both_ freshmen, feel that As for me, I'm not one for the it is very difficult to find a good loud and social-oriented dorms. residence afteryour freshman year, Not that they're bad, they're just They think that since most dormi- netforme because I've just always tories that have doubles are re- been shy. I also feel that in most served forinmming freshman, their dormitories, there is too much in- options are very limited. They fluence and pressure to drink l would both prefer to l'ive in a low- prefer a quiet and laid-back resi- key, quiet double, preferabty in a dence where I can be myself and theme house, but due to the fact have privacy_ This is wb.y I have that tll.eme houses are difficult to begun to look into theme houses get into (you have to apply and for next year. I feel that theme get accepted:), then their only other houses carry a sense of unity and option is to live in a suite. Even acceptance among the residents of then, they are not entitled to the the house, because they have cer- privacy and qu.iet that they want tain themes that bring them to- and need, :because they would gether (for ex.ample, Wells House have to share their living space with concentrates on the theme of com- three other people. munity service). So, all of the resi- Considering the number of stu- dents have ~()me thing in common dents on this campus, along with where they can get together and their differing tastes and prefer- host certain activities. Also, com- ences, I think Union doesn't offer pared to a dorm, theme houses are enough options to give everyone a lot more spacious and allow you a happy,. comfortable living space. to actually live in a house itself Most of what is available is aimed (complete with a kitchen, living at extro:vertecl people who love to room, individual bathrooms, etc) socialize, aud who love to be rather than to live in what feels like around a lot of activity. As for the a 12 x 15 cubicle as in most of the rest of u.s who like to have quiet, dorms. B11t again, it all depends and wh() shy away from the party on your personality and what you atmosphere, the only places avail- find a comfortable and acceptable able are Webster House and theme place to live. houses. Even then, not aH of us Freshman Jennifer Norris said can be guaranteed entry into a that she prefers the quiet and laid- theme house. So ... where do you back atmosphere as well. Because want to live nex.t year? Fresh Samanthas are Recyclable· . . by Amanda Carr Contributing Writer Did you know that every year you. an average American, use seven trees worth of paper prod- ucts? Multiply that by the amount of citizens in this country, and it amounts to 2,000,000,000trees! Of that number, only about half of the material which could be reused is recycled. Americans alone use over 2,5000,000 plastic bottles each year-hardly any of which are re- cycled. The U.S. is the nwnber one waste-producing nation in the world, while at the same time recy- cling only one-third of its poten- tially recyclable materials. These appalling statistics have urged many <>tudents on college cam- pu:-.cs adoss America to begin in- tense recycling projects, yet here ..1ll'nivn no onL\ has takL\n the ini- li<.~ti\ c. Even the administration has not bothered to enforce the sc\hool's feeble attempts at recy- cling. l..ht ) c.JI. the I L\ \\ere I c(yding htn' in most of the cb~o.;rooms. hut tl11, \•:ntme 1\-a< ilhandoned \•.:hen \tudenh u~cd them as deposito- ries for chewing gum and coffee cups rather than the products that they are inten<ied to receive. Some dorms make an attempt at recycling, hut a great deal of recyclable mate- rial is thrown out in the regular trash anyway. The same problem is ram- pant in the campus center: there are receptacles marked for various types of materials, but numerous students continue to ignore them. When one student asked why she had dispos.ed ofherplastic \Fresh Samantha\ bottle in the regular trash, she replied, \I'm sorry ... I didn't even think about it\ The problem is ob-viously one of misin- formation; many students do not realize just how important recy- cling is. Just last year a recycling confer- ence was held in Washington, D.C. This gatherit1g -of 110 people, in- cluding Fran McPoland, the Fed- eral Environmental Executive, and Katy McGinty, Chair of the \Vhitc House Council on Enviromtlental Quality, emphasized the fact that C02 emissions into the atmo- ~phet-: are slo\1ly changing tbcglo- bal climate These emissions could be greatly reduced hy recycling u~cd materials (especially paper). As of now, about twenty-seven percent of used materials are be- ing recycled. Just by increasing the amount ()f material currently being recycled by eight percent would be enough to reduce C02 emissions by 13 .2 mm tons per year. With help of Amanda Sibley and Professor Hugh Jenkins, Campus Action has already taken steps to solve the recycling problem. To- day,at4:30mHumanities 117, they willbe meeting with a representa- tive for Sierra. paper (a firm which has volunteered to accept Union's paper recyclable) and Campus OPS to discuss a plan which will make recycling an easy and permanent fixture at Union. Sierra has agreed to take on this service for free-all students have- to do is use the re• cyclable containers which will soon be available across campus and ensure the right materials are be- ing encouraged to attend the meet- ing. With Rainforests (and the many species ·that live there) dis- appearing at an alarming rate (over 100 acres per minute). every item recycled is a step towards the pres- ervation oftllese critica 1 resources. All it takes is a little time. ' Back by popular demand. the Cm1Cordit'11si.\ Personal Secti1.m will be ft'aturing YOeR personal ads. Submitting is/l'ee.just email: l C()ncorily(a vu.union.edu Fake Blonde, I think he is permanently puzzled over there. ~IMbuddy s, Hope you find your _snow angeL. -Love, S&M Jen, Happy 2.1 st Birthday! Be ·Mike: ·Why can't you help me? ·tentork To Polizzi: Pay me, PAY ME! -EDS · Brooke Baby! · . good. • • Happy 22nd B_irthday! Love,Marni Ps . \E d fC ~· . . - n · o · areer party 1s before you know it! DragonMD13- Sti1l don't have 3000 W()rds ... I think I might just sit here aU day and look puzzled. -IV MORGAN Love, The Concordy Editors 'Roomie: ·Are you ever coming home again? It was like .... BOOM, BOOM, BO.OM, like an el- . ephant coming at us! -Your roomie Joe- Brooke, Wllo lmewwe 'd get by on only -a third of the material? Why. Happybirthday!- is it that we get lazier and la- . Quam optima es! zier everyday? -History and C++ buddy -Mike ToSME&AM, Here's something for the early morning hours. ROONEY! - the salty end of the hall 'Eugene, Don't involve me in your pre'\ pubescent fixations. -MSM R()omie~ Htd an awesome time this weekend! Where were you Saturday night though? I -missed you! RB Greg, Have fun with Popeye and enjoy the seas! -Dave ToMike: Jusilike my fantasy- McCain wipning is a bigger fantasy. -a Bush fan tentork- Tight jeans are in tllis season! You look cute! Keep up the good work! love, EDS & M~M Pammy, I'm so happy for you! Love, Brooke M&S: . Congrats! Why are you-looking at me like that? Stop it right now! KT Witt- I'm so proud of your swim- ming accomplishments. I hope to see you in Atlanta. Love, BMB E i C, So were you surprised when I wrote you that crazy one sen- tence email from the library? . Can we get free tickets? Love, OPED Emmy- You ;ve got mail on your desktop .•. Can you believe that? Way too funny! It makes me laugh! Love, Ballerina To Little Kae, Thanks for all your support. You'reagreat friend. ·Love, Your Big Send us your Personal Adsl They are FREE and FUNI We want your inputt s sn ar ca In Cf ln er $0 .of pr m le~ ca sn sy lll• re th ca is~ ca siJ a eq m In tv. th ex of fn --, te pr co an .fo tn Sa lo sy of .pe ar al rn sa th 1'1 at c~ P' H .pr at dt v; In ca m ti so th In Ill in 0! E! bi cc

Science & Technology 0J11:mnrm!!n~Ji~ •. February 17, 2000 • Page 15 Science & Technology Fut·Ure of Comm,erce: Smart Cards by Sloan Miller Science and Technology· Editor What is a smart card? Well a smart card is the next evolution- ary step of commerce. A smart ca1d is the size .of any credit card in your wallet,. but unlike your .cfeait card these smart caxds are integrated with circuit chip embedded within them. These smart cards give you th.e power .of a computer in your pocket. The credit cards that we pt't!sent1y use a.re classified as magnetic strip cards. Although less expensive, the magnetic strip caJd is beaten hands down by the smart card. The magnetic strip.card system has. many inefficiencies including the fact that the system relies heavily on col111l1tmication th:mugh mail between the card carrieJJ and the institution that issued the card. :Figures from MasterCard indi- cate that the additional cost of a single smart card, as compared to a magnetic stripe card, is eCJ:uivalent to the cost of three mailings, Most card. issuing institutions have' a minimum of twelve mailings per year. Therefore th~ smart card is far less ex:pensive considering the amount of junk mail everyone receives from their credit card companies. Smart cards also reduce te 1e'corrtintu1icati6ns. an.'d <fata precessing costs. The smart card's ~()mputer chip's built-in security attd intelligence system allows fc:H the discarding of real-time tran.sfer at the point of purchase. S~les conducted duringthe day are loaded into the central computer system at night, when the cost oftelephone calls is less and the computer system is relatively unused, saving both the store and the central computer system money. Another advantages in the use ofsma1t cards over magnetic strip cards is that the computer chip can store lip to eighty times the amount of information as the strip cards. transactions will require the presentation of the card. To avoid fraud, the smart cards protect the authentication of the card and its data through some security measures. Smart cards have PIN (personal identification) .numbers, similar to A TM or debit cards, which are directly tainment industry. The use of smart cards has been very popular in Europe, hut has been slow to be implemented in the United States. One likely reason for this is the established industry created by credit card companies and their in- ability to suffer any kind of profit loss even for future benefits. Examples of the use of smart cards outside·ofthe United States are in Argen- tina, driver's li- censes have been issued with inte- grated computer · chips allowing the WWw .precis-scs.corn This extra space . allows more per- · sonalization of • the information · stored within the · card. A smart card can be custom made to suit the needs of its user's life. Cardholder's preferences can be loaded di- rectly into the card's memory chip. The infor- mation stored within the smart· PRECISSmart CardSystem 's Medical Card. government to crack down on people driv- ing with false cre- dentials. In Seoul, public transporta- tion on busses is done through the use of a recharge- able smart card that card is also readily available to the cardholder through statements which can be view in the privacy of your home, _at a public terminal or printed out for review at a later point. The preferences on these cards can be edited or rewritten according to the whims of the cardholder. An additional advantage of the smart card is that it wotks through ' \ - ,, k\ ~ • . - .... -. a contactless method. At certain locations the smart card can be accessed while it remains inside the user's pocket. To allow cardholders to have more than one smart card an anti-collision function is programmed into the computer chips so that the radio signals do not get crossed. For security . reas'olis some imprinted into the memory of the chip. Smart cards can also confirm their use by its owner through fingerprint verification or iris recognition technology that has recently been developed by Keyware Technologies and Proton World InternationaL This security technology is known as biometrics. Other examples of biometric technology inclu.de voice, face and hand geome.try recognition. The biometrics can be used in conjunction with the PINs and passwords which cannot be duplicated by impostors. Smart card have been opera- tional since the mid 1970s. Pres- ently smart cards are used at ho- tels, in supermarkets, in public transportation, and in the enter- · can be purchased at banks, kiosks or the bus stations. In the United States last May, the rail system of Washington, D.C. began to use smart cards. The Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA} grabbed the lead in the race to provide better and easier public transportation by introducing SmarT rip, the country's flrst smart card fare system. Following this trend, Microsoft devel()ped Win- dows software which can be used to program smart cards. Last No- vember, the software giant shipped computer tools that allowed the smart cards to be programmed us- ing Visual Basic language. Other early efforts on marketing smart cards in the United States have been directed toward corporations. These companies are using smart·cards to allow employ- ees access to sensitive levels of information. Security clearance lev- els are programmed into the .com- puter chip. Medical trials of smart cards have also begun. Pregnant women have been issued a card listing medical problems or desired childbirth procedures. In the en- tertainment industry, satellite tele- vision receivers are programmed using smart cards. In the future smart cards will be as common as photo identification. Smart cards will allow the cardholder to carry multiple cunen- cies when traveling, make secure purchases' over the Internet from any location at anytime, pay for public transportation and public phone calls in addition to the more traditional use~ of a creditor a debit card. Smart cards will eventually enable payment of any biB from computers, public kiosks and self- service terminals without fear of fraud. The smart card will carry d.ec- tronic proofofyour identity. They will be used wi.thin multiple indus- tries for a variety of activities. The embedded computer chips will make security decisions by con- sidering a wider variety offactors before giving authorization for a purchase. Every computer will come standard with a smart caid reader. Eventually one card will now take the place of a dozen. Con- ceivably wallets wiii be a thing ()f the past. lt will be similar to the secluded lives we all lead here at Union, using our lD cards at din· ning services, at the bookstore, at the convince store. Within the term we all will be carrying smart. cards that will allow use to access our dorms without the need for a key. The Sequel to the Internet by Steve Ayers Staff Writer One of the major points of ap- peal for the Internet has been that a11:yone can connect to it. This allows it to act as a U.Iiiversal means of communication, in the samewaythatradio, televisionand the telephone have in the past. lbe difference is that the Internet allows the individual to generate ct>ntent, making it more pa.rticipatory than other media. Eowever, this has also generated .problems. As anyone who has attempted to open a Web site during the midday rush knows, Web traffic jams can ~low the l!tternet down. This fact has ca.used s()me organizations to seek as<\lution in building new, parallel networks that would be alterna- tives to the I ntetnet. These S() lutions could alleviate some .of the traffic problems of the current Inte~net, but can they preserve its rn<Jst desirable aspects? Most recently, several schools in the San Frantisco area devel- ()pccl California Rcs..:arch and Education Network{Ca1REN\2) a hi:gh-speed fiber-optic network connecting participating schools at speeds more than 100 times that of the conventional Internet. Nationwide high-speed net- workshave been available for even longer periods of time. The best known of these is NSF's very high-speed Backbone Network Service ( vBNS) and an educational project known as Internet 2, VBNS was started in 1995as the succes- sor to NSFnet, and is primarily devoted to the connection of supercomputers for scientific projects. Currently, this network is maintained by MCI. Membership is restricted to those wh() apply to the NSF. The backbone of this network employs high-perfor- mance OC-3 lines, which run at speeds of 1 50mbps or higher, gen- erating a network with better per- formance than the Internet today. In the near future, MCI Worldcom intends to offer an improved ser\ vice, known as vBNS at a premium for participating institutions. The Internet 2 is an initiative of schools in the United States to build an Internet-like network that would have better performance and larger bandwidth. The larger band- width would allow users to use high-performance applications involving multimedia that the ' current Internet would not be ment, a high-defmition TV signal was successfully sent over this network with no special prepara- tions, and no loss of quality. Membership in this network is also restricted, and currently over l 00 colleges have joined. High perfomiance networks are not limited to the United States, and these networks may eventu- ally be incorporated into a world- wide connection of networks _known as the Global Information Infrastructure (Gil). Networks in Canada, the Pacific and Russiaare already being interconnected to spawn an international network thilt will allow efficient communi- cation between members of different countries at higher speeds than the current Internet. These high-performance net- works have enabled some miracu- lous multimedia applications to be used. One class at Stanford used high-performance network lines to allow video-conferencing with a similar class in Japan. Another ap- plication allowed a student art exhibit, involving manipulation of objects and images in virtual reality to run over a network. Despite these examples, the util- ity of a high-performance network could be limited if the school net- work is not upgraded to take advantage of it. Here lies the hid- den cost of these netwQrks. In or- der to fully take advantage of them, schools could need to spend large amounts of money, upgrading their out of date local networks. But perhaps the greatest disad- vantage in the use of these high- performance networks is that they do not allow the universal connec- tivity that is such an asset to the regular Internet. As a practical matter, it remains to be seen whether the new multimedia appli- cations of these parallel networks will ever be able to compete with the universality of the Internet it- self, which allows users to easily call up docwnents on a wide vari- ety of topics. Perhaps in the long run, the best solution is an upgrade ofthe actual Internet itself. Internet actually tends to pro- mote free speech, making it harder for governments to take a.ny kind of action which limits speech, no matter how offensive. The Internet spans many countries, making jurisdiction difficult to determine. -

The Dire Search for Controversy by Deric H~rrington StCljf Wr itter Hey there again everyone. How was your week? Really? Mine too. Coincidence ... or PSYCHIC PHENOMENON? Actually,. tais past week has been very interest- ing, as for many things have hap- pened. Unfortunately, I can't talk about them here, due to the pend- ing lawsuit over the severe beat- ing of a mall Santa that refused to accept the fact that the holiday sea- son is over, and keeps on trying to scare kids away from the a:lready setup Easter Bunny display by taunting them wi·th a foam snowman ... Essentially, it's easier for me just to say \don't ask.\ I don't get it, it se.ems like every sentence I write in this co1umn al- ways sets offmygrammar correc- tion thingy <ln my computer, thankfully,. m-ost of the time it's only due to run-on sentences, which I don't -personally believe I use, but who am I to not listen to the almighty computer? Anyone notice that the \new\ things on campus that were pro- moted in the last Concordy, look strangely like the exact events that were run last year? Maybe it's just me ... it probably is. ·• Ok, I was watching Who Wants to be a Millionaire last night ... That game just doesn't seem fair most of the time. I mean, some- one would get really easy ques- tions, and wol.lld get far,. and the next guy wo11ld have a question like \What did Regis eat for breal<,- fast?\ In completely unrelated news, WRUC has started up again for the term. I can't suggest enough for people to go ()Ut and take a part in it, it is a lot of fun, and it's a great way to get rid ofsomepentup ag- gression in a public forum! If you have a strange masochistic urge to listen to my personal show, it is on Mondays and Tuesdays at 11 at night. Late breaking news on the pre- viously reported mall Santa At- tacks; I made it up ... Oh no, it looks like another blow to people need to lighten up a bit. It's not like we poisoned food at West for an experiment, hut then again, people get sick from eating there all the time ... maybe it is poisoned (CONTROVERSY!). lk.n.owthat the big jss\le here was credibility, . butwho·'stosay that people don't make up things all the time ... little kids everywhere are goingto have a confused look on their face when they find out that theit imaginary friend cost them their -credibility for life. Ah, now that I got that all out, I guess it's time to flush it away (whoosh!). Side note: My hair is great to- day! Backward note: sdrawkcab · si egass·em siht (let's see spellchecker grapp.le with that one) Is the h.eat oE anywhere on this campus ... just today I had to be chiseled out of my bed, and I had to bring a hammer to the bathraom so I could pee (draw your own conclusions ... ok, stop· drawing you pervert). My toes are cold ... perhaps I should wear socks ... or pants ... but that's just what my teachers keep asking me to do. Well~ as I can tell by the cramp- ing in my lower bowels '(not to be confused with \upper\ bowels), it is time for me to go ... Where, you may ask yourself (or, you can ask a friend •.. but if they're not read- ing this at the same time as you ... they're going to look at you weird, and then get those nice men in white ccats to bring that jacket that . lets you hug yourself ... ah ... how I miss you oh wondrous jacket of . self love. I'd just like to take th:is opportunity to say that I love abus- ing the power ofpar.entheses, you know,rambling on insideofthem while you, the reader are just wait- ing and waiting for me to get on with the point of all of this, which for sure will be revealed in the end of the actual sentence that I started typing o·h-so long ago) pie ala mode {see, it was too long from the beginning of that _side note to the end of it for me to even main- tain my thoughts... and well, I don't feel like reading this com- pletely useless column over again andre where was. 7 Bedroom House 2000~2001 Large Bedrooms, 2 Bathrooms~ Modem Kitchen, Appliances, Extra Closets, Large Deck and Yard, Security System and only half Block from Campus One Year Lease A 28 Year Union Student Tradition! Call 370-5498 The Asian Persuasion b)' :P.hilip Cho Stiljf Writer . . -. As I write, today is Valentine's Day. It is a day like ali days, ex- cept I feel a: piercing in my heart. It is a day when I miss my honey the most. A day I vvish 1 can spend with my girl, but blowing I cannot be- cause distanc~ and-time will not al- low. Today is. the day when Ire- gret the dista.:nae that is between us. Today is the <lay when my tears flow plentifully because I cannot he with the otu I hold dear. Today, I see many people wait- ing in line to p:ick up plentiful gifts that they are toreceive on this day oflove .. I see :many people talking excitedly a boat what they are to do today andlsee love.inthe air. My Jove is there t();, and it is painful but blissful. To feel love, and to feel pain is what Valentine's Day is all about. I look at the bright happy · faces, anditl!in.k of my lov~done. I wonder if she :received the dozen red roses I sent her yet. I know it will be a complete sur- prise for her and I am glad just thinking abou.i her reaction to the love I show foT her in the roses that mean so much Granted rose& are extremely e:xpl'msive on this holi- day (it cost )t)e $100), but I find . that flowers ex-press well what is hidden andgr<Jwi:ng in my heart. I . thought of candy. teddy bears, and jewelry, but r found that flowers have that certain dynamic. Roses are red with. l-ove, and they don't last foreveru11like teddy bears and jewelry. . Candies d.o~ \t last forever too, but it's weird thinking about your love being alf eaten up. Roses are aesthetic, and are to be seen. When they wilt and die, gener- ally they are hied and put ih an al- bum. It is true that they don't last forever, but tll.ey can be kept and thought ·ofa:tHi seen from time to time. That is wllatlove is to me. Good happy memories to be reflected on from tiine to time. Reinforcement of what you are worth and what you mean to a certain individual. Life outside of your body, and in the si:mlofan()ther. Feeling com- plete ·only when y,our he.arts are life~ She bas great power over .my together, soul, .and I feel great but vuhter- It is like one heart beating in two able. souls. It is a beautiful thing.. There seems to be no other in Valentine's Day provides us with my life except her. Others seem the right t() show love fr-eely and to be vessels that I happen to.pass, unconditio:nally. Vulnerability is as I swim by the ocean of life and felt on this day, and people :accept to rny fmal destina1ion. She is my sudden irrational acts. one and only, <Uid I find that my Valentine's Day allows·us to be heart is enraptured. She makes. me the lovingpeople that we are. B1,1t, a person that cannot he wtthout only fo:ttoday. We. cai:). allow love her. to take over OlJr day, and act out· Extremecomfortisfoundinher, freely. That is what true love is, aud I fmd that I can,be myself. I and it is .a great feeLing. I fmd that can be happy, .I can be sad, I can ·fue only other day that this open- be mad. She accepts and cares for ing of the soul happens is during the pain or-other feeling l may feel. weddings .. Y oufeel the same free-. She erases my w<;Jrries, and I fmd dom and happirtess. that my soul is fresh once again. I Love is so permeating that ev- can start over~ and be confident erybody is bitten, and before you with her at my side. know it lov:e is plentiful Not only What is love to have so much for th~ lucky couple, hut also for control in mY life? It must be a the guestsblessedwithviewing the gre;;~t thing, for it helps me con- special oc~asion. What a day it is tinue to live and survive through a today. A day of pain, happiness, reality that seems so cniel at times. and tears. Hopesareplentiful,·and Considering, I understand· why I everyone !topes that true love can ·. feel so much pain when I am with- be found if not found already, outher. Sheispartofme;.andpart Even the single people hope on of who I am, Oneca.n:ilot live with this day that some1hing magical only part of oneself. She com- will collie to be. pletes the essence of what I am. I m.yself dream ofbeing with my Life without her would be unbear- loved one, although she is so far able. What chaotic feelings I feel away. My heart and spirit is with today. But, that is· what love must her on this c:lay,.and I smile as tears be. Chaotic and· deep.· roll down my eyes. She must be Not to mention vulnerable. happy to know that she me~ns so Love is a fragile thing, and must much to me. I am lJ.appy just be tended to gently and carefully . knowing that she thinks of me. The hardest thing about long dis- She is my only rose, and I think tanceistheextremefeelingofvul- she knows this. My love goes nerability. deep, and I admit that at times it is Vulnerability is. good hut also scary. Feelingsofvulnerabilityare bad because when you are at that not pleasant to most. stage and find yourself without But I frnd that by allowing your- her, you try to fmd a substitute that self to bemme vulnerable and risk- she would otherwise fill if she was ing your soul by tm.sting someone there. It is hard to fight this from reaps .a great bliss that cannot be happening, but I fmd that my lo~e explained. f<>r her outweighs the urges that Love and pain go hand in hand. result from loneliness I feel. Long At some pcint, love will erase all distance is a big conunitment, and the pain that has resulted. All the I fmd·it worth the trouble because past is €rased, and happiness in life I love her so. is achieved with love. This is .the Maybe someday, she will under- hope we all have, and if we are stand the amount oflove I fmd in lucky we will find that love. I find her soul. myself lucky that I found some- But in the meantime, I will love one liketbat. Iknowthatrightnow her forever, as long as my heart she is far from me, but I count beats, and as long as love is still in myselflucky just having her in my my heart. . .. '· . •. !· •. !, • . W.E.~R.e:···Lo~ATEQ·.·ott~·.·.y~N:·V~A;N~ft~-AV~f'I9·1;_ .. · •. ·. . ··.· ..••.. > . . <5~ts> s;sa~s3o4 - . . ······ . - WELCO:MES: . ·. ' G:f'l¢, .. ,<~.- .. -·. :(S&:N:rt:RAL N:UTRITION c·s:Nt~R- -- :- . - --.,_ ·,_ ., . ·.· -. - ... - -.- ' -' .- -- ., ·-· ,._ •;' ,- '. .,. . ,_ ' - . . ·' ', :~. ~; .. . -~. . AVILASt.e:·tN''M!ARCH _.::: ,\ ., { . ' . . HGOLD· CARD A.VILA.IB:LE''. ,,, .', ,·· .. ;.. h~ N ar s, m ar p~ st th w CC is st ar sc st w Tl bt P1 ju le cc I· w k m fe tb d< sr w re Pt it, p< til Tl m ar bl a~ v. al u tb cl jo w st tu w Ct cc in d4 at a! tb m le tc ri w tlJ

Features 0Iunt.orbien9i£i • February 17, 2000 · Page 17 I Study, Really The Simpsons Endure completes tb.ese homework prob- States. .episode, which expanded his time by Brian Kern Staff Writer lems. The student body here at by Dan Centi More importantly, the Simpsons in tile spot light. The pro-baseball Union Coll~ge, myself included, Staff Writer have the uncanny ability_ of puri- players that star are hilarious, and is an exceptionafgroup of bright fying individual subjects, and 'add immensely to the humor. In recent<h\ys~some revelations and talented students who are here They are some of the most iden- lightening them with trademark 2. H~»mer as Mr. Burns Assis- have come to lP ass before me. to hiarn and ch1lllenge themselves. . tifiable faces in pop culture, and sharp wit. tant: Now,Iwaspl\lnningonwritingan I don't believe that will ever .theirnamesareasfamiliartliemost Through the lives of Showcasing Homer's world fa- article called ''Where Have alfthe change. prominent actors, politicians, and Springfield's citizens we realize molls ineptitude, this is the famous Squirrels Gone?.-' bat this is clearly Fmally, I need to clear up mis- rock stars. our own mistakes, while never los- \yom car has now been turned into more important. These revelations conceptions about my articles in We know their personalities as ing the eptimism that people, no a cube ... you have 15 minutes to are a set of misconceptions some this newspap-er. Unfortunately, well as we know our own and can matter how slow and greedy, can move your cube\ episode. Almost people may h.a:ve abol!t me, the some people took them much . accurately predict their thought do the right thing in the end. completely without an unfunny student body,. am.q my articles in more seriously then they were. in- .Patterns with ease. Their moment, this is a classic. this newspaper_ At this time I tended. In a recent Cirticle I dis- funniest remarks never sur- r-------~--~---~-~---, 3. The Sitnpsons trip to would like to el«Jar up those mis~ cussed difficult classes here at · prise us even though we ff'T''h fi NYC: conceptions. Union. Well the fact is, I am tak- · consistently laugh at them, 1 J . eir UnnieSf New York City has Theftrstpossilblemisconception ing those difficult classes. I andremarkably, theyaren~t· never looked quite like is about myself and what kind of wouldn'tbetakingAPclasses ifl ' world class actors. The remarkS never this; and Homer's adven- student I arn. D.tle to some recent didn't want the challenge. . _Simpsons exist only as two- tures in the Big Apple are articles I wrote :it is possible that And I really didn't believe any- dimensional drawings that SUrpriSe US. ff some of the funniest in the someone could see me as a lazy one would 1ake my so-called ad~ . speakthewordsonlyateam show's history. The city student who doesn't like to do vice not to take one of these · ofwriters create. Whytheil, is caricatured perfectly, work a!id try lnnl at anything. classes. 'Ihepartomittedfrommy . do we treat the Simpso11s as any- and both its positive and That is by far not the truth. To article was where I said\Istill urge thing more than the hard workofa Now going into it's lOth year, the negative aspects are presented in begin with, I am in the Schola:rs people to take these courses as talented troupe of underpaid ani- Sirnpsons is still best show on tele- good taste. Program. I'm not bragging, if's they're exciting, interesting, and . mators and a team of storytellers? vision, and it's not terribly diffi- 4. The Monorail: justamatteroff~ct. I like.tocha.l~ challenging,\ This was left out Thereisnosingleanswertothis cult to understand why: the Written by a young Conan lenge myself. I [ike_ to take hard only because I bd problems sav- · question, and it's possible that the Simpsons are the greatest form of O'Brian, every prominent Spring- com•ses. !like tQI[earnnewthings. ing the file. There was no other creative players who construct television escapism in the enter- field resident takes .part in the I wouldn't he in the program if I rea~on. My (lfticles are in!ended each episode aren't sure ei:th.er, but tainment industry today. story. Top it off with Phil Hartman was la;?;y and diodn't want a cha:l- .to be a source of hUlll,or for stu- · it's most likely they've done their It;s a world we enter and enjoy as the sleazy Monorail salesman knge. I like doing the work, No dents here at Union. Until now I job so well the characters have de-. at our own leisure, something andyou 've got one of the best epi- matter howmucb I m,ust do or how have not been writing them for the fmed themselves. that's remarkably familiar but still sodes. few hours of sle~ I get, I sti;lllike perspective Qf tlie professors, but The loveable simpletoa named exciting. With so many episodes Hopefully, we can expect the the work. In f~ct, that's why I now I will make sure to keep that Homer is probably the most intel- and so many great moments, it's Simpson's to last for many years don't get much sleep, because I in mind. I merely bring to atten- ligently realized personalities in the quite a chore to hand pick the best to come, seeing as how they've spend a gn~at doeal of extra time tion some little facet of life, not . history of sitcom, and Mr. Bums episodes, but these are some per- bee11 established as such an insti- workingonruypilpers, writing lab even necessarily dealing witb will always be the deliciously sonalfavorites. tutirrn among watchers. reports, and studying fat tests. Union College, in order to provide •. anachronistic billionaire never too With the characters constantly Perhapssomep~()plecan'tbelieve amusement for fellow students. busy to crack an insult. There's 1. The Mr. Burns baseball being placed within interesting it, but I enjoy wrLting labs andre- After all, the whole purpose here also the ability ofthe Simpsons to situations (just recently Maude ports. That'swhyisperidsomuch is to make.pf;ople laUgh .. That's evolve with the times, aad aq::u- Flanders was killed), the longev- time on it. I lil<e working hard. what Ilike to do, and that is why I . rately embrace the feelings, con- ity <>ftbe Simpsons should beguar- That's why I chose to challenge write these articles. They are by anteed for soine · to myself and take part in the Schol- no means meant to be taken seri- ars Program. ously, which is why I tend to write Not only does: this apply to me, articles aboutamusing topics such but airpost the entire student body as snow and dust. In fact, the rea- . as well. Let's think about this. son I've written about topics such '---\\'--:::-:..-~.;;b::Y~-\':\:\'-- When we camet() college here we as squirrels and giant crows is be- _____ _:M~a~tt. Aro:.::n=o.:.;w..:.itz:.:...-1111111!•!11 all knew what a ~Challenging place cause I f'md science, particularly Before I sat down to write my much more work, per week, than Th'(: key issue here is underage Union is. That fact alone proves my major and minor (biology and column this week l noticed that semester schools. The only thing • drinlcing. The only way that the that all the stuclents here want a chemistry, respectively) to be· so · the tyrannical chains have been re- challenge. Eventhough we might fascinating. So next time you read moved from the front ~f the Cam- joke around ab0111t having a lot of an article I've written just remem- pus Center. Yay! The '\Reamer work or not getting any sleep, it is her that it is there for entertainntent . Front Embargo\ is now over. Be- stilljustthat,jokes. Ihavenotac-. purposes only. ware of falling ice, which never tually met a student who can't deal So that's pretty much it. I truly falls. with the amoun:t of work we re- hope I hav~ cleared up these mis- Take advantage of walking into ceive. Also,:( fmd that everyone COJ1Ceptions. I a:nd the rest of the the cc through those surprisingly completes all their work, myself student body are all hard working convenient front doors because included. I know I'-ve joked about· students who enjoy the challenge. you never know when we will get doing homework problems that When we joke about sleep artd l more inch of snow that will put aren't part of the gTade, but <;)nee work it· is just a way to take the those chains back up for two more again these werte only jokes. To pressure off. A$ for my articles, I months. think I don't ernjoy learning the h~pe those who took them a little Now, on to the real issues. The material from cloing these prob- ~oo seriously willsee them now in fr~mtpage oflast week's Concordy lems is just wrong. Ifi didn't want a new light. Thank you all for your had an article about possibly diver- to learn I wouldm 'tread the :tnate- time in reading this article. And sifying the \optionally challenged\ rial or do the problems, but I do as for where all the squirrels have party scene. want to learn wlhicb is why I and gone, well, let'$ just say we'll talk Basically, Theme Houses will be ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~a~b~o~u~t~it~n~e~x~t~w~.e~ek~· -~~~~~J,allowed to register for party's .w/ alcohol, if they employ a third party vendor, who will chleck ID. Theoretically, this will draw people away from the frats, and give · Union students what they have been asking for since the dawn of · man ... more social options (i.e. places to drink and get laid). Brace yourselves. Because THIS IDEA IS STIJPID, AND IT WILL NOT DO ANYTHING. Let's dissect this one stepat a time. First; why does this school revolve around alcohol? This is nota \nor- mal\ school The trimesters make everything lnore condensed, and we have so we have in common with semes- ter schools is Friday and Saturday night. Since we work harder, by the time the weekend comes, ev- eryone wants to get f\*ked up. We do:p't care where or how, just as long as we drinkenough to get our minds off of schoolwork. If you are 21, then you are lucky because your drinking options multiply enormously. So where can anyone who is under 21 pos- sibly go to drink, and for free none- theless? Spell it with me: F-R-A-T-S. Another question: Where do very few people who are 21 or over live? You guessed it T~H-E-M-E H-0-U-S-E-S. That is because most juniors and seniors either live off campus or in frats and sorori- ties (Wells House being the school-tested/community service - approved exception). So, why· in the world would a Theme House, with a majority of residents, who are under 21, hire a third party vendor so that they can get denied alcohol? Why would they do that when they could just have a money bon- flre? Or go to A-Plus andgetde-. nied? Or both? So, give the Theme Houses the right to have parties; and most will not take you up on that. How does anyone ben- efit? party- scene will ever be diversi- fied is to cut the crap and just let everyone drink. It already hap- pens. Of course there are insur- ance issues, but here's another bold.-faced statement for people just glancing over this article, UNDERAGE STUDENTS DRJNK ALCOHOL AT UNION COLLEGE. THEY ALWAYS HAVE, AND THEY ALWAYS· WILL. Once this fact is com- pletely ignored by the administra- tion, there will be social options. Bottom line. Tltis will never happen, so we either wait until the frats are elimi- nated (completely eliminating ac- cepted, social, underage drinking) or tile New York State drinking age is lowered. Until then, students here will either go to frats, bars or drink in their dorms and apartments in small groups. And they will drink, oh they will drink. And they wil1 always put alcohol, on a pedestal, above everything else. That is the fate of a trimester sch<>ol. I wish this column could have been more thorough and comprehensive, but I started writ- ing it late and my deadline is five minutes away as I type this. It doesn't matter, though, be- cause I have basically made my poin.t. • ...

........ \ Love-s Fire Comes to the Yulman Courtesy of David Roberts After watching the s.even \fres.h numbers\ by seven ofour outstanding American play- wrights, I came away with there- confi:tmation oftny belief that we are ln very good hands with the playwrights currently working in Alnerica,n theatre. Eachplaywright takes a \fresh look\ at eight of Shakespeare's sonnets and is in- spired to create a contemporary work. \based\ on the sonnet. The results are refreshing and inspired. Eric Bogosian's Bitter Sauce (Smmet 118) deals with the fears of intimacy and commitment which claim so ~any lives in so many relationships. The things we do to ourselves and others just to keep our distance indicate just how fiercely loves's fire can burn \But .thence I learn, and find the lesson true, Drugs poison him that so fell sick of you.\ one withouthaving the willingness to \give some ef ourselves.\ Inspired by Sonnet 140, Marsha Nofllllln' s 140 rehearses for the au ... dience the difficulty ofdiscovering . and maintaining healthy and help- fur relationships in a time when it is difficult to make significant com- mitments and the world around us seems \ill~ wresting\ and \grown so bad.\ Terminating is Tony Kushner's :in.spiration from Sonnet 75. Two couples and a third couple com- prised of a member from the other two:( therapist and client) deal with each other and the absent others in a tightly written and very well-acted sequence dealing with the issues of transference and ambivalence notonly in the therapeutic relation- snip but in aU human relationships. William Finn's original music pro- vides the production's only \musi- cal.\ Painter and Subject sing of the -ex.citementof passion and the diffi- culty of capturing the essence of the \other\ in any relationship. The more we love sometimes the more we feel \incapable oflove.\ Like the pi..per in Shakespeare's Sonnet 102 for Philip Glass (Sonnet 94) and John Guare' s The General .of Hot Desire (Sonnets 153 and 154) fm- ish the \fresh numbers'; and are fine expressions of just what love can do-· love between lovers and love between the one who creates and that which is created. In Wait- ing for Philip Glass Holden dis- covers that \you could make up a life completely different than your own.\ These human creations of- ten seem to place us at odds with creation itself andfromthe·creator (howeverwe experience that divine p~esence) and love's fire that \heats. water, water cools not love\ is at once the most thrilling oflife' s experiences a:nd the one which fmds us wanting to return to inno- c-ence. Love's Fire opens one week from today and nw.s thi~ w~ek and riext fi:om Thursday to Saturday at 8 PM and Sundny at 2 PM. Tickets are '!lOW available in the Yulman The- ater Bex Office and in the Satellite Box Office in the College Center. Theater Union is a.live and well, supporf it. Hyaraulics ?hat Like Mean by Ntozake Shange is inspired by Sonuet 128 and successfully deals with unrequited love and passion, seen and unseen. The two danc- ers reflect upon the pain caused when we attempt to \have\ some- ~ we often hold our tongue, \because [we] would not dull [the other] with [our] song.\ 1...ove's Fire will open at the Yulman Theater one week from todcty. . Wendy Wasserstein's. Waiting Philistines at the Hedgerow · beaches and brings brilliantly to life characters will make you feel like by Alexandra Lohse the fascinating personalities that you. live a Brady Bunch-esque life; Staff Writer animate an exclusively enchanting even if you truly live far from it. · phace. The book is 'told in a series Gaines traces the history of the of independent segments that of- Hamptons, back to the sixteeBth ten trace some line of entropy. We century when they were taken from discover how the vicinity, witl~ its the Indians. He describes ac- ostentatious mansions and unblem- counts of libel trials and witch- '- Doyou remember the lasttime you started reading a book for your enjoyment? The winter sea- son gives you the perfect oppor- tunity to c1,1rl up on your bed with a great book and exit reality, let- ting your imagination run free. Steven Gaines' Philistines at the Hedgerow is justthe book that will get yoll entranced right from the opening sentence - \One Friday night in December 1991, while din- ing <tt the home of Bmce Cotter; real estate magnate Allan M. Schneider began to choke on a piece of rare sirloin steak lodged in his windpipe.\ Pkilistines at the Hedgerow is a National Bestseller that details the gossip-motivated social his- tory of the ritzy cultural-elite beach towns on the eastern end of Long Island: the Hamptons. Gaines' book is a gripping feat of story telling; a book that takes us be- yond the privet hedges and sandy ished land, became increasingly seedy before it was adopted and polished by self-made Manhattan Multimillionaires. Compared to the popular Mid- nfght in the Garden of Good and Evil, Gaines introduces a host of vivid characters including a first lady's aunt and cousin who lived in a Gothic mansion with twenty- eight cats and no litter box, a world- renowned painter who, at a black-\ tie dinnerparty, attacked his host's piano with an ice pick, and a self- made man who became the most powerful real estate agent in the Hamptons and died while choking on steak. Stephen Spielberg, Calvin Klein, Truman Capote, Jacqueline Ken:tledy Onassis all make cameos before page seven. The bizarre and scandalous stories involving these Tap Tea . M.SJc.Sites Courtesy of · Entertainment Weekly hunts, along with stories .about Jackson Pollack's drunken rages. The essence of the book is the struggle for peace between those who guard the area as an autono- mous WASP-y outback and the in- furiatingly resourceful waves of self-made men and women coming from Manhattan; the philistines of the title. Gaines is clearly on the side of the locals, and feels that as more and more people arrive, there is less and less of the farmland that caused them to fall in love with the area to begin with. Over all, Steven Gaines' Philis- tines at the Hedgerow is a histori- cal novel with scandal, sex, and amusement. As Carl Swanson for the Salon says, \Gaines knows how to tell a story, and he knows how to dish.\ For Everyone Who Likes MP3s I. real.com 4. broadcast.com 8. nsync. com 2. mtv,com 5 .. mp3.com 9. sonicnct. com 3~ windowsm~dia microJoft.com 6. tunes.com 7. vhl.com 10. ubl.com BAllA lllformational by Lori Greene A&E Editor Anthony Branch,· a founder Of BADA, (British American Dra- matic Academy) will be on campus: thls Wednesday, February l6fnthe Yulman Theater lobby to speak with any students interested in at- tending a sununer or fall semester program at Baloil College in Oxford England, where classical theater as we know it truly evolved. The BADA programs, based out of Juliard, · UCLA, and Sarah Lawrence College, focus em studying clas~ical acting tech- niques with a focus • on the works ofWil-. liam Shakespeare. Branch :welcomes students of all acting abilities, including students with little or no acting experi- ence. Aside from the a:cting program, other programs fo- cus more on the text and literature of Shakespeare . This is an incredible opportuni!)' to study with noted actors such as Kevin Spacey, Ben Kingsley, Allen Rickman, Fiona Shaw and other members of the Royal Shakespeare Company, on ofthe world's most notable acting com- panies. One of the most exciting aspects of the program is the op- portunity to see a vast number of plays in and around the London area. Senior theater major Chris · . Welch, an attendee of the summer program, considers it a turning p<Jintin his collegecareer. \Before BAD~, I wasn't really sure wheTe I wa~ going with my acfu;tg, it was really all over tlie pl11ce. But BAD A made me reaiize tltat it isn't just about being on stage, acting is a pTocess that includes the research, the reading, the delving into the soul that I now understand. To be fully inunersed in tll.at atmosphere with others in my situation was an experience for wbich I am truly · grateful. I cannot stre$S ~nough the im- pact BADA had on life. I urge anyone who has ever (,ireamed of really studying theater, or wants to hang out in England, to meet Mr. Branch and see if BADA is forthem.\ Professor William Finla:Y~ coordiantor of the BADA program, eocotlfaJ:!;es all to con~ sider BADA when plani!Jing a term abroad. \Ireallythihk 1hat BADA offers th:e kind of actor :trafuing that a liberal arts institu- ti<Jn, like Union College simply cart n<i~.lt' s amazing to see the change and growth our students come back fromBADA with.'' FinliiY is more than willing to talk more with studen1s interested in . the progtam. Callor e-mail him, or stop by his office in the Yulman Theater. · UnionCollege<>ffers term abroad credit and academic credit for classes taken at BADA.

0 a if n Arts & Entertainment Qrlll1'£ormensis • February 17,2000 • Page 19 Smash Mouth Performs at Siena The Bone Collector C~urtesyof Siena CO'llege Nationally known bq.nds Smashmouth artd Luscious Jack- son will appear ott a double bill, along with two opening acts. at Siena College Saturday, February :26; 2000. Thefour-and-a,.hal.:fhour, in. the Alumni Recreation Center, IJegins at6:30 PM. Doors open an lour before the c.ol1cert. Sau Jose, California quartet Smash Mouth{named after Mike Ditka's term ''smash mouth foot;. IJall'~) signed with Interscope Records, which released their de- llut album Fus:h Yu Mangin 1997. .Buoyed by tours with Sugar Ray, Third Eye Blind and others, the ra- dio success of \Walkin' On The Sun\ and a cover of War's \Why Can't We Be Friends,'' Fush Yu Mangrac:ked up double platinum McLachlan for Lilith Fair before b C C t sales. Smash Mouth's latest al- embarkil1g on their own tour. in t .. e . . am pUS CD er bum, Asiro Lounge, has also Opening for Smash Mouth a·nd an exceptional eye for evidence gone doul>le-platinum, thanks fo Luscious Jackson will be 22 Jacks· Courtesy of . gathering. And just exceptional the hit \All Star,\ which earned and the Hippos. Formed in late · Entertainment Weekly eyes, period. them a G:rammy nomination for 1995, the22Jacksgrouprecorded . Director Phillip Noyce, who ----------~----~--~- best pop performance by a duo itsdebutalbumUncle Bob in.l996, The wily serial killer who leaves made the sharply creepy thriller or group~ and followed up with Overserved •. fetishistic clues is a regular player in Dead Calm- thereby launching New York-based Luscious and Going North. The Hippos murder mysteries. Buta.bloodfuirsty Nicole Kidman's career-before Jackson, a bass-driven hip-hop/ have cut two albums: Forget The • audience turned on by The Silence specializing in the creepy paranoia rock cro£sover group, favors World and a new creation pro- of the Lambs and aroused by Seven of Tom Clancy movies, seems to sampling of sounds ofNew York ducedby Mark Trobino(Blink 182,. . has encouraged moviemakers to know that Wasb.ington is capable life-----e.g, -traffic noise, o:verheard JUmn.y Eat World). · · dieam up even more baroquely grue- of stirring intensity when inspired conversation. The co.ncert, presented by . some ca-lling cards; sadism has be- and distancing containment when The female trio debuted in 1992 Siena show, available on campus · come its own main- not - and pulls with In Search of Manny and starting Wednesday, Februaty 26 • st:Feam art form; In.---~----~----~---,fromhimalively, openedsbowsforUrgeOverkill aHOAM,are$l5.Formoreinfor- • The Bone Collec~ engaged perfor- and the Bieeders. They .emerged mation, contact William Shennan, tor, a skeleton-thin \Bloodthirsty · mance. Indeed, asheadlmerswith 1994'sNatural directGr of Campus Programs at • thriller wrapped in. audienCeS turned. without moving Ingredients and soon became Siena, 518:.. 783-2374. Itpromis~s • glamorous produc- a l:im:b, the actor GAP clothing ad faces. In 1999, -to be quite a show, buttickets are • tion values, the on by Silence of conveys such a Lusci()usreleasedElectricHoney, selling fast so make your plans mUTderercreatively full-blo-oded which fea.tured the hit '!Ladyfm- soon, to see two big name bands terrorizes his vic- the La.m bs and c~mviction about gers,\ and. joined Sarah thatwon'tcomehere! thus before offing aroused b\ thisveryaverage A& . · E .. · · Art- f t. h. · w k them, then removes J mystery that he . ·. . . . . •. . · · • · 0. . · e ·. . .. ee . . an osteotog.icat Seven will love carries along ev- .. , • l a play by Sam Shepard .opens tomorrow night Actor-'s· Studio at the Yu[mqn ·Theater Admission is F·RE·E Di-rected by Heath Heilpu~rn Stu.d.ent thea;ter pr~ by M01Nt1.C~ C~ IEG . \ .;·: .- .. ' • --. ..:., 1 .. ~ ·: . . ' :'JO:p~·· 'I~IJa.;·;\ .. ··. ~:, ·. · ~:-. ..;,.e_..~. ~· .. ·.,:.·:·.; ... ····· ~ \:·-' . . . -~ :: :(t~~~cs~t ·D't; . . ·,ft¥1t~~J~~tt\ll,,W¢1JJClY: -) :.! <- 0 ~ 0 : -~,> :-·' • 0 • <,.._,,,·~,.M'~'-'',,'',' ·•·•' •• y - ·-~ ' L ~-:{i&;~ffer, .... ···· · Drie , souvenir- a bit of. eryone he works atinorthighorfin- Tbe Bone with-evenbuf- ger- as his trade- c· ou·ector.. '' feting the wilder, marie. less-focused This is a sicko theatrical mood proud of his crafts- L-~~~~-------------'swings of costar manship, operating in the dark tun- Jolie, sornewhatp<micky in her first nels and alleys of a menacing New big-picture star vehicle - and York City(hew •70s!} Unfortunately helps give the under-established - ironically - the one detective character ofDonagh.y an approxi- who can make the cleverest sense mationofpersDhality. This actorly of the puzzle can't move his own passion may not breathe life into bones: Lincoln Rhymes (Denzel an exhausted genre movie, but it Washington), paralyzed in an acci- gives The Bone Collector some dent from the neck down (except for unexpected spine. a right index fmger that can click a The Bone Collector is playing computer button) and prone to sei- in the College Center auditorium zures that threaten to short-circuit this Friday through Monday at 8 · his brain, lies inert, planning his own PM and 10 PM_ Admission is free. suicide. Still, he's intrigued enough Take adv:<UJ,tage oftllis as a study by the case to over~ee it from his break or just anotll.er method of bed - and ·intrigued, too, by the procrastination. The film commit- forensic aptitude and attractive bad- tee welcomes suggestions for next ·girl attitude of Amelia Donaghy terms selection, if The Bone Col- (Angelina Jolie ), a tetchy cop with lector is not your cup of tea. Tre San Three Tres Kolm Tri Trys . 9i.:_.f/$~ff/dfWiietl~.- .. '•,;, . .: .--~-. • ·----~_ ... _,;-,.; 7 '.\\:·,..~--:.·- •' -\-·~.-.:·~-~;~ :'.::_,~t·'~-, .... ,.:,_,·':.:.:-. ; ; < \\-·; ~-:~~:)::> No matter how you say it, on 3/3/00 you must dial \3\ to get an outside line! .. - \·

-···: French Forces Battle Albanians in Kosovo by Charles ThtbiH StqffWriter The formal hostilities between the Kosovo Liberation .Army and Serbian forces came to an end in June of 1999. Violence in l<osovo, however, is far from over. Recent assaults on UN peacekeepers and reprisals committed by both sides have kept K.osovo one of the world's most turbulent regions. On Sunday, during fierce com- bat in the Kosovar city of Mitrovica, French forces fought iocal Albanians and killed one sniper. Two French soldiers were wounded in the action and 19 other people were injured during the course of the day. French soldiers were not the only targets ()f viclence on Sunday. Many sniper attacks were reported in the northern section of the city with Italian and British forces com- ing under flre as well. Many ques- tions remain unanswered about the vi()'leQ.ce, which involved both Serbs and .A,..:lbanians. Many believe that the peace- keeping forces were simply caught up in a skinnish for control of the town. A fortner colllll.lander in the Kosovo Liberation Army stated that Serbs tried to. attac~ to l,lD. area containing many former KLAmem- bers. The violence, he said, oc- curred when the membeiS of this now disbanded group reacted to tlte attack. The commander, who spoke anonymously, also said that nine of his former soldiers were killed during the fighting. Claims from both sides also sup- port the theory that the violence on Sunday was a struggle for con- trol of the town. Both the Serbians and the Albanians assert that the other side would like to have con\ but an effort to targ~t the NATO peacekeeping fo.t:ces. NATO offi~ dais have Stated that all the snip- ers who frred on troops on Sunday were ethnic Albanians. Lieuten- ant Colonel Patrick Ch:anliau, a spokesman for one .of the French units involved in the violence be- lieves that the attacks were \an at- tempt to kiU\ NATO soldiers. Cl!anliau went on to say that he of a \strategy. . . to escalate ten,.. sions and intolerance.\ One of the .resulting tensions of Sunday's. actions is the Albaniaa claim that the French peacekeep.- ing forces are pro-Seroian. Alba- nians point to the uneven ratio of Albanian to Serbian arrests as evi~ dence of their claim. They believe that this ratio does not reflect Gen- era<l Saqui de Sannes' belief that ''In an attempt to diffuse the situation, NATO has. arrested mare .than.·forty·.p£~ople~ ... Of the forty-six .. .detained,.l{i;Jwever~.'.all.bui one. were ethnic ,A..lbantcins:.::~:Many.peacekeepers believe ·th~a.t this·. was lllJt, a :s1d~1dfi~.lt.:jbr~.con-trol of·lhe iowti,~ but,an : '. ;.'~!/; ., .... ·. ' .: \ ... <• ·.,.,.,. ·>-< ·.' ·1,: -;, . \' . '· : . \·r.l')'· . ;; .'. . . ·. . .. i· .. : . . . . . . . - .. , . .-,. · · ,ejj_,ort,,to .. ta:fgel.: l,rt~ .. NAT-J,.peacekeepuagfol!Ces~. . • . . ·'· . : . ,. • ... '. :. ·<<>/--' . .. :•.-;. : trol over the to'Wil because of its natural resources. Mitrovic!l is b()me to many precious metal a11d i:ron ore mines that would be 11Se- fu1 to either side in case of a re- sumption of the conflict. In an attempt to diffuse the situ- ation, NATO has arrested .m()re than forty people. Of the forty-six detained, however, all but on.e were ethnic Albanians. Many peace- · keepers believe that this was not a skirmish for control of the town, . ~.' . ~- . '\would like to believe [that the at- tack on his soldiers] was an iso- lated incident of extremists [or] ter- rorists.\ The presence of fanatics work- ing to min the peace process is something that NATO is well ~ware of. French General Pierre de Saqui de Sannes believes that \there are eldremists who wantpeace to fail.\. He attributes the violence on Sun- da.y to these militants, and says tllat their \isolated acts\ were part both sides were responsible for Sunday's violence. French forces, however, defend their actions and the arrests that they made. \If we were shot at by Albanians,:' said General Saqui de Sannes; ''itis-dif- ficult to arrest Serbs.\ French foreigfi minister Hubert Vedrine supported Saqui de Sa~ne.s' s .~,~~t~~Yn!~' by .s~yin,g. that France was folloWing the in- ternational force's (KFOR) peace- keeping policies. He pointed out that the all the colUltries who have troops in Kosovo \are committed to [the] .KFOR\ and that \in the French section, there is not a French policy b11t a common policy.\ The arrests by the French mili- tary have a1se· bee.n followed by searches of homes suspected o.f hiding weapons. Under the peace agreement signed in June, anti. tank devises, as we'll as hand gre- nades and certain long barreled weapons have been prohibited. Despite the accords authorities have been forced to confiscate manyo.fthese weapons. OnMon~ day, for example, soldiers stopped an ambulance loaded with anti-tank rockets and about one hundred and eighty grenades. Enforcing regulations and keep- ing Albanian and Serbian belligerents separated is a consum- ing job for the KFOR. As the vio- lence thjs. weekend demonstrated, random conflicts within the area still occur frequently. And al- though the KLA and Serbi~ have been disanned, disbanded and pro- hibited from making counter at- tacks, these regulations \in no way deny the right of self-defense'' as the demilitarization agreement states. Determining the line between self-defense and military action will be a large part of future KFOR ac- tions within Kosovo. Bush, McCain, and the History Books byDan Kirscb StqffWriter George w: Bush and John McCain are battling hard for the ••soul\ (read: ''prize\) of the Repub~ lican Party. In other words, the GOP has a race for the nomination to the presidency. Their race is shap- ing up to be one of the most con. tenti()US and divisive in the Repub- lican Party this century. It ranks wiih the Ronald Reagan/Gerald F~rd battle of 1976, the Barry Goldwater/Nelson Rockefeller battle of 1964, the Robert Taft/ Dwight Eisenhower race of 1952, and eventhe William Howard Taft/ Theodore Roosevelt fiasco of 1912. In each of these races, the philo- sophical difference between the conservative branch of the party and the establishment/liberal fac- tion has been highlighted. The more contentious elements of these twc wings relish the chance to dif- ferentiate between them, and each (}f the. above races has given them th!lt chance. By comparison the Bush cam- paign, has been more apt to try to •: :· :: '' . . ·, . liken their candidate to Governor Reagan, with supposed grassr()ots c<>nservative support corning from the governor of a large state, or eV<en Barry Goldwater, the outspo- ken conservative who became the de facto leader of the right before tlle nomination process even be· gan. This a.Jlow.s them to compare Tolm McCain to Nelson RockefeDer !ln<l Gerald Ford, two undoubtedly '\liberal\ Republicans who were probably more likely to conserve land and water than culture or tax:- payer dollars. This comparison is ultimately iltvalid, however, since GeorgeW. B11sh captured the establishtnent ()[ the Republican Party and the remnants of the old conservative movement early on. Th•JI'eblem is that the establishment of the Republican Party was, in 1980il:nd earlier, captured by the conSeW,a- tives, and has been in their hands since. This allows John McCain to tilt left and cast himself as the a.n1i-establishrnentarian in this s<~ap opera drama. McCain can rail a.gainst the \establishment\ all he wants, when he has in fact got the liberal media establishment behind ; .. ·, . ' -~ > ' ~- him, which has given him many times more good publicity than his well· financed rival. McCain would do better to sim- ply cast himself as he has tried to, as a latter-day Theodore Roosevelt, a moderate to conservative Repub- lican whose centerpieces of his campaign were progressive and li])eral, and who portrays himself as a so-called .. maverick\ crusader against the dOP establishment of the Bushes and 'faits. Taft lost every primary in 1912 to Roosevelt, hut Taft ended up using corrupt methods, colluding with the party bosses to ensilre h!s nomination. McCain has allowed voters to think that he could, if he wished, g;o to the Reform Party ifBush uses his \big money\ (read: corrupt) methods to wrest the nemination tt()m him. McCain, who deserves it, just as Roosevelt fotmded the Progressive Party andsplitthe GOP in half. He has also gene so far as to let people know that he would be the bigger man in this scenario, and only accept the Reform nod if he wins over Bush. McCain would like nothing more than to convey this message and convince voters of this, that Bush is nothing more than a.:i:l empty suit tool of the es· tablis.hment who can not be trusted, in contrast to him, wh() supposedly can be. As much of an insider/incum- bent as Bush is, he is a democrat (small \d~') would not deny the party of its rightful nominee if he were to be defeated. Since he is unlikely to be, however, his best bet is to cast himself more as Bob Taft against Dwight Eisenhower than any()ne else. While it is true that Taft lost the nomination, he is seen as the forerunner of Goldwater and Reagan,_ a conservative \pio- neer\ who was more loyal to party and conviction than his opponent ended up being. Robert Taft was the son of a former president. His father; Will· iam flow!ll'd Taft, went down in defeat when he did not fulfill the promises of his office, and ended up losing to both an outsider from his Owl) party and a trend-setting liberal Democrat whose foreign policy plunged us into war. His son Robert became leader of the conservatives in the party, but was still very much the insider, having .· .. been the Senate Republican Leader for years. He did not attempt to portray himself as an outsider of any ki:D.d, but his conservative con- stituency in the South and West .still praised him for his conserva- tive policies and beliefs. lie still served as Senate Repub- lican Leader after his presidential defeat to Eisenhower, and even became Eisenhower's biggest backer in the Senate before dying .shortly into his first term as leader of a majority in the Senate, loyal to party, country, and conviction to the end. Against Bob Taft in 1952 was a war hero, Dwight Eisenhower, wh() was seen as leader of the moder- ate, even liberal wing of the PartY. and was the favorite of the media establishment Is this race about a loyal party insider and son of a former presi- dent who became leader of the con- servatt.fes a-gainst a liberal, :wrongheaded war hero, or a cor- rupt party insider against a heroic maverick? Both sides could win this battle of the perspective, and whoever does writes the next round of history books. c tl ( 1' tl v n d iJ b a ll t< S< ~ p Sl 0 N S{ 0 A i11 al 8.1 w PI b; re tll pl st T· di re PI le h! si sa te id 0€ m Fl Sl.l ra la sa

a a Governor Ventura Dumps Reform Party by Dave Gruner Staff'Writer · In. the waite Df an upcoming presidential election, the American political arena has undeniably taken center stage. Yet, ,this time it isn't Republicans a,gainst Demo .. crats, George W, versus Oor¢, or the :rise of SenatDr McCain, but a Governor from Minnesota, former Navy Seal and profess.h>nal wres- tl~r, Governor. Je&se Ventura .. On Ftiday aft;emoQn, February 11, Minnes(lta Governor Jesse Ventura severed his ties with the RefonnParty' snational organiza- tion, saying.that the party·~ rooted establishment operates in such a way that groWJth within its ranks bas been thwarted even since he was elected in 1998. \I 'believe the national party is going the wrong direction, andi.s becoming wliatwe in Minnesota do not want it to be ... I am awtbuncing today tha~ I am disaffiliating :myself from the Reform Party,;' Governor Ventura told reporters outside the Minne- sota Statehouse. Ventura reccmmended that the Minnesota chapter of the Refonn Party should revert to its one-time stattis as the \'Independence Paity ofMiniiesdta.'' Such a party once , ··.,::I\. ' _ .. _; operated within the state pric:>r to the founding ofthe Reform Party in 1992 by billionaire Ross Perot. The RefonnPaity NationalCom- ntittee is scheduled ,to convene in Na$hville, Teooessee whereby itis reported that Jack Gargan~ the party's national chairman, will be thrown out. And now that G<Jver- not Ventura has withdrawll his name from the Refonn Party, it seeiiLS that much more likely that Jack Gargan, a close ally of the governor, will indeed be 0:usted. Recent d<;:velopments are aH mere consequences in the cliv:isive- ·ness between Reform· Party lead- ers. Ever since Jesse \The Bocly\ Ventura was elected go-vern<Jr, party platforms aud leadership qualities have aU attracted ·wide criticism. There his been little work to restore what once made the pa:rty · a legitimate and influential third party:~ Instead, Ventura's election has led to accusations against Jack Gargan,· accusations against the essence of the structure orthe na- tional organ:izationitself involving concealing vitalre~;:ords from vari- ous leaders, including Governor V entttta, andthe gpvemor'shighly publicized interview withP/ayboy magazine. In the interview, Gover- nor Ventura ma<lea number of con- troversial statements. He called for the legalization of prostitution and decriminaliza1ionofdiug use, and characterized organized religion as a \sham and crutch for weak- minded people.\ In resp<>nse, former Reform Party Chairman Russ Verney disassociated himself, asdid()tberVer:ney followers, from the Minnesota Governor, calling him of trying to run the party through \intimidation and bully- ing.\ Now that Ventura has left tb.e party, Ventura.simplysaid. ''We'll miss him, but we'll move-on~\ Ac- cording .to Governor Ventura, \Russ Vermin,\ hadn't the ability to allow the party to grow nati()n. ally; instead, \RussVarrnint\ main- tained the party leadership amongst the little elite gmup, a small group of power brokers. He sfated that his eleetion in 1 '998 wasn't due to Mr. V emey ancl the party's leaders but because the people ofMinnesota were lMking for a politician who was up- fr<>nt, honest, charming, and most of aU put the state of Minnesota first. \The national party did notbing- zero .. to get me elected,.\ Ventu:ra said. On top of the conunoti<Jn in- volving Ventura's departure, nDw the Reform Party must decide who will be nominated as a possible presidential candidate. Patrick Buchanan, who left the Republican Party due to conflicting opinions within the GOP establishment, is seeking the nDmination, as is bil- lionaire real estate developer, Donald Trump. Ventura bas en- dors.ed \the D()mild,\ and will still remain an avid supporter even af- ter leaving·the party. Yet, what- ever happens, the Reform candi- date will face an uphill battle, as the PartY at this point is only on the ballot in twenty-one states. And Ross Perot, the original founder, stiU has time tojmnp into the .race (he has remained silent throughout the controversy). No- vember 7, the date ofthe election, is only eight and a half months away, not much time to gain head- way in an election that already seems predetermined. And n<>w with GovemorVenttira leaving, Re- publicans and Democrats can amass even more support making it more unlikely for a third party to take vital votes away as seen in the past couple of presidential elec- tions. RightnDw, it is still George W.'s and Gore's race to lose. And it is also Ventura's time to reflect as to why exactly he chose politics as the basis for his future and how much longer his \fad\ can last. , Northern Ireland Talks Stall Amid IRA Resistance ' \'p• , ' : \ ... by Stephen Nemeth· Sttq/fWriter The tenuous peace process in Northern Ireland suffered another setback after apromisitlg inception'. On Tuesday, the Irish Rep~blf~ati Army amioUnced that it was ,pull- ing out of talks and withdrawing all proposals it plJ.t before the dis- armament commission . This stunnin:g message comes a week .after Northern Ireland's all party government was suspended by Britain's Northern Ireland Sec- retary, Peter Mandelson. Both these moves have put the once promising pea.ce process in dire straits. Mandelson 's report, issu.ed last Tuesday; echoed the report of the disarmament cotnmitteeheaded by retired Canadian General John de Cliastelam;· The'colilrilittee re_p~rt ·, on the-region in. 1972. stated that the IRA had made no In a -statemeat released this progress towardS disarmament as Tuesday, the IRA blamed the U1- . mandated by the UlsterUtlionists ster U:llionists for the breakdown before they would join the new futalksandmth.enewgovernment. multiparty govemmerit, which in- \Those who seek a military victory cbidesthe IRA politic!~). Wi:ilg~Si.Di'l in this way need to understand that Fein. . · this calillot and will not happen,\ The suspension:, which alsO. ()C- the statement said. ('Those who curred last Tuesday received the have made the political process overwhelming support from condit!onal on the decommission- Britain's House of Commons, ing of silenced IRA guns are. re- whereitpassedbY,:amarg~.bf352 sponsible forth.e current crisis in - 11. This vot~ .occ::uq¢as, It r~t:Jl~. the peace process.\ of Mandelson's repo~ and iri ry~ Ulst~r Unioni~t deputy leader spoh~e to fears in the British g()V- John Taylor rejected the IRA as- errunent that the IRA's _tmwilliag- sertion. \The Ulst~r .Unionists fles~ to disanJ,l w.ould eventu.ally have no illegal armaments,\ said cause the fledging Northern Ire- Taylor, a survivor of an attemptt(d land government to collftpse. IRA assassination in 1972 ~ ·~The The bill that was voted on. re- Belfastagreementrequired the de- turned Northern Ireland to \dilect commissioning of illegal anna- rule\ from London - the \qaa~i- ments, and th~ -~ are the people colonial\ form originally imposed who have failed to honor that agreement.\ pointment at the IRA's withdrawal. The withdrawal of the IRA :trom \What was on tbe table~ had real the peace process has nullified the potential, and people will be sad peace agreement to- which it ilas that it could not be worked on and adhered for the past two years. developed in the way that is Along with Mandelson's s;us- needed,\ he said. pension advisory; the :IRA is:sued Also on Tuesday British Prime a number of proposals it said were Minister Tony Blair and Ills Irish clear breakthroughs to try to jump- counterpart Bertie Ahern an- start the stalled peace process. But nounced their intentions to meet on the statement i:t issued tl!is on Wednesday to discuss propos- week, they have sat-d the prop()S• als to develop a joint initiative to als they initiated have been witlt- . · restore self-government to North- drawn. em Ireland. \Both the Bri~ish government Both sides, although they and the leadership of the Ulster blamed the opposition, expressed Unio{list Party have rejected th.e hope that furtller peace can be propositions put to 1he {disarma.· achieved in the region. ment commission) by ourrepresea- Peace, if achieved, will mark the tative,\ the IRA said. ~·They obvi- end of one of the bloodiest and ously have no desire t() deal with most violent divisions in Europe. the isslle of arms ex.cei)'t on tlteir The achievement of peace will own terms.,; hopefully prove a portent to a more Mandelson expressecl disal>- stable future. Government Fights Hackers with New $9 Million Center by Philip Cho StqffWriter In Washington D.C., the FBI is pursuing a nutnber of promisit1g leads in the pr.obe Df last week's hacker 'attacks em several top Web sites. Law enforcement sources said that the FBI i1; planning to in- terview a number Dflntemet users identified by university and busi- ness security e)(perts through their own internal investigations. The FBI plans to hegin interViews of suspects and to seek search war- rants over the nex.t few days. In last week's \denial of service\ as- saults, hackers launched a series of electronic attacks on poplilar .. commercial Web sites, which.lep to losses ofmillions ofdoJlars and heightened (ears over Imtemet safety. ~ Computer security experts and the FBI have also identified many people who may have been in- volved in several <>f these attacks. Law enforcementsources. are C()rn- ing primarily from two tracks: 1 )Server logs provided by offi- cials fromuniversities whose C()rn- puters where used in the attac:k. 2) tips coming in fr:om the Internet backer community. Theperson suspected ofmollnt- ing the first attacks was named ina three-page e-mail sent to FBI agent by two computer experts. Addi- tional attacks were also carried out through computers affiliated with West Coast universities, inc lading the UnivernityofCalifomia at Santa Barbara and Stanford. A computer at the University of California at Santa. Barbara was apparently used in an attack aga.jnst CNN.com. A compu.ter maintained by Stanford University may have been used in an attack on eBay. Investigators are also investigating whether the attacks against CNN.comandeBay could have bee11 carried out by the same person. As a result, President Bill Clinton has decided to endorse the cre- ation ()f a national cyber security centert()-cope with hacker attac:ks. To fundtl¥s new center, the presi- dent also plans to ask Congress for $9 million in fundS. Th~president is expected to all- nounce the initiative to create a voluntary, private-sector network to monitor and respond to hacker attacks after meeting at the WWte House with more than a d()ze:ncom- puter executives and a.cademics who specialize in computer tech- nology. Participants will include Cllades Wang, chairman ofCi>mputer As- sociateS'International Inc.; Howard Schmidt, chiefinfonnation security officer at Microsoft Ccrp.; Hanis Miller, head of the InfDtmatiDll Technology Association of America; and \Mudge a member of a hacker think tank that does security consulting under the name \AtStake.\ It seems apparent that hacking is becoming a big problem. The government has decided to step up and protect businesses and in- dividuals from hacking. As the FBI investigates, we are becoming more aware of the pitfalls oftecb- nology that can occur. This prob- lem is a forewarning of others to come as a result of advanced tech- nology. It will be a hard task for government to protect businesses and individuals, yet protect free speech.

... '' \Bringing Traditional Collegiate Athleticism into the21si CentUij\ A Quick Look at •this-Wt,e.k's Scores ... - \ Pl'iilceton6Uni0n l/Yale 4 Union 2 UniOJ18~,Skidmore 6'1 -- Wome-n's Vermollt4 Union 1 -- Ullion6QSlddmor.e4.6 : .. ·:' ' ., •,,,.· .. Tigers Know the Taste of Revenge Union Falls Twice at Home This Weekend against Princeton and Yale_ byD.J.Book StaffWriter Surdy this is a weekend to forget. The Skating Dutchmen dropped two straig:ht contests this past weekend a-n,.d three home games overall. Ullion did not put up mu.ch of a fight in either game, and the team was not mentally prepared-to play. U:nion previously beat the Tigers at\ Princeton just two weeks ago b-y a score of 3-l, and they tied the B-::ulldogs at Yale that same weekend by a score of 2- 2. Nevertheless,. it was an all together different story this past weekend. On Friday night, February 11, Princeton traveledto Union to face the Dutchmen in tile ECAC Game ofthe Weekthatwas televised live on NESN {New England Sports Network)-and replayed.on delay on Empire Sports Network. The Ti- gers took it to the Dutchmen early as they opened the scoring just 62 seconds into the first period. Union mustered oaly six .shots on net the entire period while allow- ing ten, and as a result, the Dutch- men fi>und themselves down, 1 ... 0, after twenty minutes of play. Union opened the second ses- sionofaction with agoaljllst 2:18 seconds into the period. Juni()r for- ward Clark Jones scored his sixth goal of the season with assists to Freshman forward Nathan Gillies andS<Jnior fOiwarclRyanCampbell. The goal, which tied the Sc<Jre at 1- 1, revived the-crowd of 1,796~ Only 31 seconds later, however, the Tigers took advantage of a give- away by 'Sophomore g<ialtender Brandon Snee deep inside Union's defensive zone, and it was all Princeton for the final 35 nt:inutes ofthegame. The Tigers scored five straight goals and won the game, 6-1. It was an embarrassing l:<>ss for Union, especially since tile game was televised and played in the Dutchmen's home rink. It was also the most l<Jpsided loss of the season. Union was out- shot, 35-30, in the game, -and the power play failed to convert on four .. · . . ' ' '' ·. chances. Hoping to regt()up on Saturday night~ Febru- ary 12, Union rac:ea-·oii against the Yale U:niver-. sity Bulldogs. The Dutchmen came out fly- ing as Campbell s<:ored a power-play goal just over a minute and a into the game. It was Campbell's sixth tally and second power play goal of the season, and assists were credited to S()pho- more forward Jeff Hutchins and Sopho- more defenseman Charles Simard. Union could not hold the-Iead, however, as Yale bounced back with four unanswered goals, · three in the first period ._.· .... alone, and tooiC a 4-1......,==~~~~~-~~~-~---~---~~~~-----\ lead into the third pe- riod. Just under five minutes into the final Sloan Miller/CP Sophomore Jeff Wilson leans in for a check againt the Yalepasser. session, Junior Captain Jay Varady asked what the team will do to pre- scored a shorthanded goal, pare for next weekend's road trip his first tally of the season, (to Cornell and Colgate Universi- togive the Dutdu'tlen some ties). He said, \We can'thang our hope. Assists were credited heads now,. what's done is done. to senior defenserri:a11 Jeff Last weekend is over with, and we ·Sproat and junior forward have to learn from our mistakes. Brian Yaclel, but Url.ion We obviot~sly weren't ready to could not find the back of play, and we were foolish to think the net again and suffered ~'.(.. that we coald walk all over these 4-21oss. <-~o teams just because we pt-ayed Both teams recorded 3 5 well the last time we met. We have \, . shots apiece, and Union's a lcit of work to do to get ready for power phty once again next w~ekend.\ struggled as the Dutchmen Union has six ECAC games left converted only once on inthesea~(Jn, andfourofthemwiU nine chances. Freshman be played on the road. The fmal goaltender Mark Wise en- two regular season home games tered the game in the middle will be played on Friday and Satur- of the second period in re- day nights, February 25 and 26, lief of Snee and stopped all against St. Lawrence and Clar'kson 17 shots that he faced. Universities. Union is currently The crowd of 1 ,598 left tied for ninth place in the confer- Achilles with disappoint- ence, buttheteamstillholdsaplay- ment as the Dutchmen offposition. all seaS<Jn thatUnion lost two home games in the same weekend ... Ryan Campbell scored a goal and an as- sist on the weekend, recording a point on two ·of the three Dntch- mengoals. He is Union's hottest scorer as oflate, recording four points (two goals and two assists) in his last four games ... Jeff Sproat leads the teamin assists with 13, and Charles Siniud is a close second with 12 ... The number \31\ has not been lucky for Union lately. ........ ------------;::;-,-----;-=-:-;=---'dropped both home games . On February 3, Dartmouth scored the game-winning goal against the Dutchmen with 31 sec- onds remaining ~regulation time, and last weekend; Princeton scored what turned out to be the game- winning goal 31 seconds after Union tied the score at 1-l ... Jay Varady and junior forward Alex Todd are the only two Dutchmen with at least 50 minutes in penal- ties. Jay has 55, while Alex has 50 ... Union has seven different players with at least eleven points. Sophomore Jeff Hutchins tries jar the puck to clear the zone. of the weekend. Head Coach Kevin Sneddon was After .the Whistle Last weekend was the first time

. p as- a as last the been sec- ime, ored .Jay has rent ints. Shooting DutCbnierl Blow oUt skldinore by Dal'id C. Brooks Editor-in .. Chief On Saturday, the S-hooting Dutchmen. h~>sted Skidmore in Memorial Fieldhouse, and were successful to end a three game skid that had started 10 days earlier against the Thoroughbreds. Dur- ing the three game stretch, Union · had been held to under 70 points in each game. However, the Dutch- men were able to score 89 points, while th~ defense continued to play strong,.lin:riting Skidmore to 67 points. Leading scoring spree for the Dutch.m.en was Sophomore Aaron Galletta who ha<i20 points. The other four starters aU had double ftgures in points, Senior co- captain Dave Copeland had 12 points, while Senior co-captain Zena W oldeyesus, J11nior Ryan Murray; and Sophomore C.J. Rodgers each had 11 points. The win moved the Dutchmen to 3-7 .in the league with two league games remaining. Their overall record was improved to 12- 9with the win ove1 Skidmore. The 89 points scored'by th.e 'Dutchmen on Saturday were th.e most since they scored 92 against SUNY M~t:ime. Senior Zena Woldeyesus looks to make a move towards the b(fSket. Junior Ryan Murray makes the easy lay-14p . They host Rens.selaer and Hobart this weekend~ in which e-ould prove to be a dedsive factor ~the playoffhtmt. The Engineers ue c-urrentlyinsecondplace in the UCAA, while Hobart is in fifth place \Vith a 4-6 league record. If the D11tcb:men could pull ~rut two vic- tories. their record would then be 5-1. With a little help from other teams in the UCAA,. th.t Dutchmen C()uld fmd themselves hosting a a first ·round playoff game. The UCAA Final Four will played at Hamilton, which has the best record jn the league, c11rrently 11- 0, next weekend. The Dutchmen lost to the Continentals by two points in December, ~nd by nine in January. Hamilton willh.ave a frrst- r<>und bye in the playoffs. The Dutchmen faced Williams College Tuesday eveming in a non- league game. The Dutchmen host Rensselaer Friday nightand Hobart Saturday afternoon. Women's Team Edges Skidmore by Meridith Chace Staff Writer The Dutchwomen Basketball team is nearing the end of regular season play. At this point Union is 5-5 in the UCAA and 12-10 over- alL Union has locked the f<>urth place in UCAA 's which guaran- tees that they will be home for the first round of the UCAA tourna- ment. This past weekend Union hosted Skidn1ore and came out on top 60-46. Erin McNamara lead Union scoring with 16 points and contributed nine rebounds. Leah Oliveiri chipped in 13 points and Sara D' Arcahgelo had 11. On Monday, Union faced Vassar and had the lead for most .of tbe game, but ended up losing 78-63. Vassar made a lllll in the last ten minutes of the game and Union could not respond. The Dutch women are looking to finish up . the regular season at home with two victories. So, come and suppoti Union on Friday at 6:00 when they face RPI and on Saturday at 2:00 against William Smith. Erin McNamara on a fast break. Sara D 'Arcangelo follows through on her jump shot.

'• .Page 24 •. February 17, 2000 •. ([tnttnrlri:e:usiii SpllrtS Union Track Competes atUCAA Tourney by Frank FiJi dotto Staff Writer Many of us may be oblivious to the hard work and dedication needed to nurse a rookie scrub into a devoted and enthusiastic athlete. But each day the intensity that transforms each athlete from nor- mality into a competitive beast can be found in the depths of each runner's, each jumper' :5, and each thrower's pores. I believe the events that took place this weekend at the UCAA Championships are worthy of a dif- ferent kind of praise, one which grabs the soul of each reader like a vice grip. From now on, the Union Track and Field Team will have a boost from plutonium instead of Nutri-Grain Bars and the intensity from the sun instead ofheart-throb- bing guitar. Yes, we will be differ- ent. I am under the impression that Mr. Steve Schuler's performance was the most spectacular of the day for Union. The man had the courage to compete in a race where the winner runs five seconds faster. The man had the courage to run the first half of the race in last place and then make a breathtaking move that would eventually take the rest of the field by storm. The man fin- ished 5th in the 800 meters, a posi- tion in which he has never found himself. A per.s6nal recorcl and a wake up call fortbe rest of the state came with the performance. Shuler ran 2:02.01, officially. I am also under the impression that Astu 's heart is bigger than his actual body. Day in and day out Atsu trains with reckless abandon, rurrniilg four and five races in each meet. Specifically, a time of52.56 for th:e 400meters was recorded. Not ()nly was this performance Worthy of a second place fmish, it places him among the top 400 meter runners in the state. Oh, and not to mentio~ that he has ·quicker leg turnover than a jackrabbit. I have never seen Se- nior Bryan Roy run, jump or throw. But I have beard thai he is pretty good. I guess the rumC)rs were true. Roy happens to be one of those guys who has been blessed with the capability to excel in a vast ar- ray of events. On Sunday he got a chance to prove this, cempet:ing in three events. Most notably, Roy took a third place ftnish in tile triple jump and a second place finish in the 55 hurdles. In his flrst meet since in- juring his arm, Freshman Chris LaLonde placed 5th in an event that was dominated by upperclassmen. His throw of 13.52 meters m the 35 pound weight throw puts him amongst the best the state'. ~ J Another freshman, Justin Sievert, performed exceptionally ~ell in the shot put, placing 4th with a throw of 13.46 meters. This event also featured upperclassmen wh() seemed to conquer the event. But whatever the story may be, Union knows that they have at least two strong competitors in the weight events for the years to come. Also performing exceptionally well was Senior Stefan B~gnato in the pole vault, Bagnato finished 2nd overall with a spectacular jump of 3.50 meters, about eleven feet. That, I believe, isStefan'sbestjump of the season. Also fmishing well in the field events was SophomeFe Kris Darlington wh()placed third in the high jump with. a. jum,p of 1 .83 meters .. · Accompanying .Darlington at th:is height were Chris Burns and Stephan Erickson. A runner must be very brave in order to compete in the 5000 me:ter run. Freshman Joe Kehnanovich was that guy. Prior to running thjs long'-:winded event, Kelmo ran the 1500 meters. Popular belief tells us that such a double can be very grueling and ex- hausting. But Kelrno pushed through the pain andran a 17:19 for the five kilometers, easily one ofhis best performances ·<>f the season. Psycho. All in allthemen's team did well pladng fouth with 78 points. We will be ready for the State Championships two a we.ek and a half from now. Any member of the women's track team will relay to you her passion and love for the sport. Notice, however; ,the hint ofsor.row in her voice. It's difficult to pom your heart into a sport only to find yourself in the same position week a:fter week. :But the women never ,give in. They never lose heart; never give up thier hope of acheiving, Sllcceeding, and winning. With such a young team and in- juries abounding, the women feed off each other, offth.ier competition, . off their injuries and thier pain. They clothing outlet Save 50% to 75% everyday on the brands you wear o!\il'iait.l W'.JipoGn lll'Uilllt 1!wJ ]?6sm.tilXll ll'O!!' dis~ ttr1pilrew a19 il:$.1\\®h zooo I UfiiO (([)JLLEGE I L--- .... --- _ ........ Come check out what a true outlet is all about. 30-32 Front Street, Ballston Spa Call 885-6634 or 884-9742 for simple directions \\W(}r:k tbroug:h the endless chal- lieoges. week after week l>oth in Union's field house and-rn thase mftheircompetitors. It's veryeasy tK> miss a practice or tw() ·merely dime to fatigue. It's easier yet to 11¢end.practice and.de.cide to only ~ive 80%. B'ut easier than this is f'mding the ,heart of-the women's mack team. It doesn't rest in .the c:o.aches, nor in a single athlete. It r•ests in each and every woman ma the team. Serious injuries, un,. beHevable work loads, class can- fli<:ts, and unescapal?Jle fatigue lnaunt the team but never bring tlhemdoW1l. Ea.chpr .. ctice is apa .. r:ade o{ athletes working toward a .t::oll1lmen goal. Each woman on this team has <lrea.ms Gf achieving not the im- }DO•ssible but the possible. Each · giwes herself completely to her s:;port, whether on the track or in tile field. Faithfully, those with restrict- img injuries attend nearly each rund every practice to support her teammates while submitting her~ s elf t~ the pain of recovery. S::umday's performances wer·e ~nl.'lncia:ted by a pait of seniors e:xcellin.g in the field. Carrie Cies.l()wski and.Jordanna Maltach earned 72% of the accu- mulat-ed points for· the Union · wt(])men's track team at UCAA' s. Ciedowski placed frrst in the shot ll!Ut with a distance of 11.19 meters, equaling 36'8.5\ luer into the top five .in the league. MaJlach's vault of~.44 meters, or 'S: feet, eamedber a sec(}~~ place: ffinish, equaling her bestvauit \yet' this season. She also holds. o11to a top .. five position going into ,the state meet in another two weeks, Rounding out the remaining seven points ofthe meetwere strong fm,. ishes by Katie Round in the 55 meter dash, eamiag her a si;cth ,plac.e finish. The 4 x 800 team of Katie Higley, Aleks Podgom.y, N atash.a Eckert, and Lail.lr a Kelmanovich eamed a fifth. .pbce fmish as did the 4 x 400 team of Round, Marie Mauer, Gle11na Malcohn, and Ra,tie Higley, adding to the everail score. .. Mauer had a record day 1his weekend, earning persona:l bests for the season in both the 1500 md the 3000,ru.l:liTing 5:21 and 11 :43re ... spectively. Her 5000· time was nearly 30 ;S:ec()nds faster than pre- viously teco:rded times from the ~eason .. With one regular seasonmeetre- majnin~~ Mauer is in a strong p~si­ tion with an equally strong cba:n.ce at qualifying for the state meet. The women fmished with 25 poin~ in fifth place with high hopes for Wednesday's me·et, the last ofthe regular season before moving iato states. While this weekend may aot have proved as promising as .the women~s teattunay have hoped, in- dividual worrieh walke.d <nvaywith new personal rrcords. . . The promise to return. stronger, sw:ifteJ', and higher than ever rests in, each wo~n~s heart, as tiJey y~arri for success and recognition. Wednesday will bring this s:u.c- cess.Un,til then, never ne:ver.give :· ... -=- ~ ~ ~ . ' :, .. 't .. -~ .i. . in. Good luck ladies.

,·., Also Thi~; Week At ~Union ... Febuary 17~ 2000 Track Swimming Competes at Prepares for Hamilton States Page 24 Pag,e 26

ts r >a he ~s. en n,. 55 Jh of .y, ra ce of na ng ;i- :e ie m or ne to ot ne n- th ~r, ~ts ~y n. c- /e Advertisement ailllttnrbimsh-s • February 17, 2000 • Page 25 ''' '• :··: ' . . ~ -:-: .,., :-: .. ~::=·:\~. The U:n~):t Cfu..p-t,~ l>t:Atpha Delta Phi .~ The. s~ ..... , awarded.·.··: . ; ,.• . : .-;· .::.:.:·: ~;.:····:~:· .. ·, ... . ;; -~{::;.:::: .. ;;.::::. . . -''~'·'' <.·:t·.:· '\·_.ft:~:::,·,~:::;,jj1l/.:'_:::·,:,·\i;::,<i'~''···''·•:.,«·>.,',:::}:;,:,:.,,. ·: : • :.··, · · '· , In ease you're stuck here· are! some suggested/'¥1.!J~j(!}'\;~:j[~'':;::.:;:,g;if .areas to get you starled: . . • • ·· · .;~~ .. · · f 4~·~:~L • Non-fiction: History, Current Events, · SCience, Technology,. the· Arts. ·• Fiction: Short St9ry, Short Stage Play, Radio Play, P9etry~ . ~ The Rules For more information contact~ Brendan Lofton,. 518.388-3138 <loftonb@i.dol.union.ed11> 1. The Deadline for Submissions is April 3, 2000. 2. Submit all entries at the office of the English Department, on the 2nd floor of the Humanities building. 3. Each submission must include three printed copies and a 3.5\ disk (in MS Word or other commonly-used format). 4. Each copy must include a cover sheet containing: name, submission category (\fiction\ or \non-fiction\), title of entry, current address,. phone number, class year, student ID #. (Cover sheet available at the office of the English Department.) 5. Each successive page must contain only a page number, entry title, and student ID #. 6. Only one submission per category per student will be accepted. 7. A~<I> reserves the right to publish all works submitted. 8. This competition is open to all currently enrolled · u~dergraduate Union College students only.

'i Page 26. • February 17, 2000 • (llmtt.or.MtnBis Union Swimming Heads for States by Lauren Wanller StaffWriter By the time this article is pub- lislled, the Union wome11's swim tectm will be swimming tlleir flrst events of the State Meet. With a record of 4-6. a notice- able improvement from last year's l-'9 record, the Dutchwo:men are ready to swim well at States. This is the championship meet where every team in the coruerenc e com- petes to win the division title .. The dual meets during the seas<>n have no bearings in the standi Jigs, exw cept that they afford cha11ces for the swimmers to get the fastest seed times. Held just .amtntd tile comer at RPI, the meet starts to- day and goes through Satu.rday. Trials, which determine ..Vl!o gets to come back at night and swim to The women's team practicing on Tuestday. score points, start at ten eaclt morn- r---~--~------------~----------------------~---4 ing, while the finals sessicm starts at four in the afternoon. After weeks of taper, when the women. cl,lt back on the yardage t:hat they · sw 1m in order to rest for the big • meet. every Unionswirnmerex.pects · to crank out best times. But :tile meet is long and hard for the svdmmers. ~.-,_--~-~-~--~~~~~-----~--~~~-~___, Each girl swims three individual events and up to four relays dur- ing the three days of competition. U11ionhas up to four swimmers in every event already seeded in the top twenty-four, includir1g both the !-meter and 3~meter diving events. And these placements are just by best times, before anyone has officially picked the events that she is going to swim in .the meet. After that process, even more Union swimmers will move up in the s ta11dings. 1he highest seeds for Union are in the foNr hundred-yard individual medley, where Senior Erin W ittes is first and captain, Senior Clewis Kilmett is second. \We're ready to clean up in that event,\ said the captai'n. \Plus with our friendly ri- valiy we 'II make each othet go even Sophomore l<.atie Me!oney practicing dives this Week. faster.\ Wittes is also ranked second in her two hundred-yard individual medley and third in the two hun- dred-yard butterfly. And captain Kerry Librandi has the ninth place seed in the 1650 freestyle event. But the high seeds are not limited to just the upperclassmen. Fresh- men LissieGrace,Anna Sluzat, and Lauren Wander each have two top twenty-four stand- ings in their respec~ tive events. Sopho- mores Courtney Audet, in the one hundred- and two hundred-yard back- stroke, and Cori Verrill in the 1650 are both in the top twenty-four seeds. Bo.th in the one hundred- and two hundred-yards breaststroke Vic is seeded four- teeitlth, while fellow Sarah had lnaarl'lhwn\n'lPn have how mentally, ~~\h' •h•\• are, Union is looking to better their fourth place fi.n,.. ish in last year's States. \W~gotsomuch talent this y-ear and a.ll ofthe upperclassmen h:ave consi<lerahly irnproved,''sctid Rachel Miller. •:of course we're go- ing have a great showing at States!\ Sports

Page 26 • February 17, 2000 • (!tn:ncnr.lriensis Union Swimming Heads for States by Lauren Wander Staff Writer By the time this article is pub- lished, the Union. women's swim team will be swimming their first events of the State Meet. \V1th a record of 4-6. a notice- able Improvement from last year's 1-9 record, the Dutchwomen are ~ready to swim well at States. This is the championship meet where e;;very team in the conference com- petes to win the division title. The dual meets during the season have 110 hearmgs in the standings. ex- .:ept that they afford chances for the swimmers to get the fastest seed times. Held just around the corner at RPI, the meet starts to- day and goes through Saturday. Trials. which determine who gets to come back at night and swim to The women 'steam practicing on Tuesday. score pomts. start at ten each mom- .--------------------------------------------------, nng. while the finals session starts m four in the afternoon. After •seeks of taper, when the women cut back on the yardage that they swim m order to rest for the big meet. every Union swimmer expects to crank out best times. But the meet ns long and hard for the swimmers. L.._ __________________________________________ ___, Each gul swims three individual events and up to four relays dur- rng the three days of competition. Union has up to four swimmers in every event already seeded in the top twenty-four, including both the !-meter and 3-meter diving events. And these placements are just by best times. before anyone has officially picked the events that she is going to swim in the meet. After that process, even more Union swimmers will move up in the standings. The highest seeds for Union are in the fom hundred-yard individual medley, where Senior Erin Wittes is first and captain, Senior Clewis Kinnett is second. \We're ready to clean up in that event,\ said the captain. \'Plus with our friendly ri- valry we' 11 make each other go even Sophomore Katie Meloney practicing dives this week. faster.\ W ittes is also ranked second in her two hundred-yard individual medley and third in the two hun- dred-yard butterfly. And captain Kerry Librandi has the ninth place seed in the 1650 freestyle event. But the high seeds are not limited to just the upperclassmen. Fresh- men Lissie Grace, AnnaS Iuzar, and Lauren Wander each have two top twenty-four stand- ings in their .respec- tive events. Sopho- mores Courtney Audet, in the one hundred- and two hundred-yard back- stroke, and Cori Verrill in the 1650 are both in the top twenty-four seeds. Both in the one hundred- and two hundred-yards breaststroke Vic Drier is seeded four- teenth, while fellow unior, Sarah Rankowitz, had twelfth and four- teenth in both back- stroke events. With all the high seeds that the Dutchwomen have and how mentally. ready they are, Union is looking to better their fourth place fm- ish in last year's States. \We got so much talent this year and all of the upperclassmen have considerably improved,\ said Rachel Miller. '\Of course we're go- ing have a great showing at States!\ '1 ' '• ! ,I I ,, I ·! L I

'\ . _ . S·co_res and Standin-gs Through Tuesday ·M·· ...•... '·H .. ·.·.·. :k··_ ··--•- -- w··· .. •·. ·. ·.· ·· ... ' ·· H.· .k · .. ··• . en s .. >.OC.e~ .·.·· ..•• omens ..... oc ey (7-174/5-9-1 ECAC). (4-16/4-10 ECAC) Ja1. .. :~:::::~ ~~=: ~:; r[~ .{-' \r) .~ 14 .~ RPl W.on l~2 . L· J/i-_ ~/_.-. 1 - · . 15. ·:at RPT·, ·• Vost 5~0 _ . _ · i's .;ty!!Ji> • . .. · tl!od z,z. . ~:., _ G· _ . 29 at Prmcet<Jm . ;, . Won 3~1 •- . \' F.eb. 4 DART MQ-~UTB 5 VERM-ONt ' ·11 · Plt'INCB!O N ,. \12 .. YAI;.E .. LQSt 2-1· 'CANCELED . ·t.ost·6~t Lost 4-2 18 · at Corne:ll · l - - ... - '· • • ' ·:- _; - ,.~· • : { .· . ~~, . ~i7~%a;lt'ENCE~~' ~- .. > · .. : . ' \-- . 2.6- . htARI(s:o N- . .. :. : · l~-a r~ -·• ·-· · · · 3 .~t. Harv~id -; -. Jano 7 HAMILTON Lo,st 5-l 8 Rit Lost 10\'0 14 at Bowdoin Lost 10-2 15 at Colby Lost 8-0 22 BATES Won 4-2 23' SOUTHERN MAINE Lost 8-l 29 at Sacred Heart Lost 6-0 30 at Conn .. Co liege Won 3-2 Feb .. 5 T.RINITY Won 4-3 6 WESLEYAN Lost 3-1 12 at Verm<>nt Los.t 4-1 Women's.,. ·· ·&a!katmJt:.· Men's Men's and ' ' ' • ·. '. ..•. 1 ' • ·_· .. · . . .•. ·• (1:2-18/5-5 UCAA) ~ , .. Basketball (12-9/3-7 UCAA) JaQo. Jan. 1 .. · l.Jnll)ll· Jnvitntional · s ·: ttriiilin 'l~vftational . ·9 · .Uit4~W.ltl4vitational . ..- ~-'~. ' ::-:-• \'~~ .. \ ___ , ..... . -U . K~MlLWON l-4 'Sf .. L~WlU!NCE l5 CLAlt'KSON . 18' 1it 11~1 ' 22 MlDJ),LEBUR Y . . ·25 . , lli\R:TWICK , 2{!. · ~t·Russel!Sage .• ·. Feb_~--: l · · at Skkbnore 4 • ·at ctarksol) . · .f' .· - -_ - ·- -· •' J'. S - ~c St. Cawrence l2 . SK~I)MORE ' _': > •• · t.4 at Vasscar . . . .- : _ .. ' ;· .. · .. ' 18 RPI ·19 WrLUAM SM1Ttr 25&Z6 UCAA Tournament .. . ' W9t~7S·38 (Vermont) .. Wt;>11 ,)Q-49 (Mt..St,:•M.il,rY'~) W\111 '1$-.58. W~J! i57-6l L(ls( i~-S6 · 'L\'~t 5·1 <t8 · • . ·,. L~~~ g:J-..52; '·. · ·, · · ·tl)stsf~s~ .~, · · ·:. w lltlli\1-49 . ; . 'W<lfl'(j@.47 . . W:<>n-1~~65 ' L\Y,st 1~6{ .-: : .· · W~n-~@-4lS · - ., , ' . ' . . . . \·· ' 4 s. VEAA(?Nl 7 SUNY Mari.tirre 8 SCRANTON ll HAMILTON 14 ST. LAWRENCE 15 CLARKSON 18 atRPI 22 at Middlebtny 25 HAR1VIICK 28 at cazenovia Feb.. l atSkidtmre 4 atOarkson 5 at St. Lawrence 12 SKIDrviORE 15 at Williams 18 RPI \' ·,\' 19 HOBART -. •. . . . . ,. . . - . . .. · .. 2S & 26 (JCAA T:ol.iiTlaitmt <Me»'s.&ili~W~men 's _,;: ~- :-- . -_ - ~:·-~;-::~~/~'·s· •. ,~~~';i~~~i~~~:;t . . . .... . . ' ,·. '•'\ .. ~ -~\.:;::~: .. ,.;~;- • .-a;:.:: --~~ ~ ~1-.! :\ ·'>::''ian~·:~·- · · .. · 8 at Willi!ll11S 15 aJ ~~twi~k . ·19. atRPt . 22 at Middlebury 29- · Hawilt{):n . .· ... . ' Feb. · · 5 ST. LAWRENCE M. Lost 154-65/ W. Lost 136--98 .M. Los~.122--117/W. Won 122-121-. · .,· M. Lo$t 126~115/W. \Von 145-96 M. Lost 191~891 W. Lost 190-89 · . M. Lo~t ,140-92/W. Lost 137-94 M. Lost 123-119/W. Won 119--85 . 17-19 · Womenis State Meet at RPI 24·26 Men's State Meet at Hamilton Won92-r}. LJst 7(}{i1 wst70-6t Won6g..(j'J l<Jst63-58 Lcst67.;63 lost69-63 Won8l--66 Won 81-78 (OT) l..()st 71--67 l.ost65-63 Lost69-63 Won89-67 Women's Track Ja11 .. 16 at Hamilton 22 at RPI 28 at Wesleyan INV'T Fell. 13 UCAA at Hamilton 19 · at Hamilton 25-16 Stat~ Meet W. Lost - ...

poorts 'i .! i •I I I, I :; I I I I Jail. 1 g !' H 14 15 18 22 2~ 28 Fell. j; 4 5 IZ 14 18 19 Scores and Standings Through Tuesday Men'sHockey Women's Hockey (7-17-1/5-9-1 ECAC) (4-16/4-10 ECAC) Jan. 7 8 14 15 28 29 Feb. 4 5 11 •J2 18 19 25 26 Mar. at Vermont at Dartmouth RPI at RPI at Yale at Princeton DARTMOUTH VERMONT PRINCETON YALE at CorneU at Colgate ST. LAWRENCE CLARKSON 3 at Harvard 4 at Brown Lost 3~2 Lost 5-1 Won 3-2 Lost 5-0 Tied 2-2 Won 3-1 Lost 2-1 CANCELED Lost 6-1 Lost 4-2 W .... ' omens Basketball (12-18 /5-5 UCAA) Union lavitational Union Invitational Union Invitational HAMILTON ST. LAWRENCE CLARKSON at RPI MIDDLEBURY HARTWiCK at Russell Sage at Skidmore at Clatbon , at St. Lawrence. SKIDMORE at Vassar RPl WILLIAM SMITH Won 75~38 (Vermo.nt) Won 50-49 (Mt. St. Mary's) Won 75~58 Won67-61 L&st 79·56 Lost 5l-38 Lost 63-52 Lost 57-54 Won 60~49 Won60~47 Won- 76-65 Lost 76-67 Won 60-46 Jan. 7 8 14 15 22 23 29 30 Feb. 5 6 12 Men's HAMILTON RIT at Bowdoin at Colby BATES SOUTHERN MAINE at Sacred Heart at Conn. Co liege TRINITY WESLEYAN at Vermont Lost 5-l Lost 10-0 Lostl0-2 Lost 8-0 Won 4-2 Lost 8-1 Lost 6-0 Won 3-2 W·OTI 4-3 Lost 3-1 Lost4-l Men's and Basketball (12-9/3-7 UCAA) Jan. Women's Track 4 S. VERMONT 7 SUNY MaritiFre 8 SCRANTON 11 HAMILTON 14 ST. LAWRENCE 15 CLARKSON 18 atRPI 22 at :Middlebury 25 HARTWICK 28 at Cazenovia Feb. l atSkidrmre 4 atOarkson s at St. La\W'ence 12 S!GDMORE 15 at Williams 18 RP'I Won83-66 Won92-72 Lost 70-61 Lost 7(}.61 Won 68-.67 Lost63~5& Lost 67-63 Lost 69:.63 Won814> Won 81- 78(()T) Lost 71-67 Lost65-63 Lost69-63 Won 89-67 Jan. 16 at Hamilton M Lost 96-77 W. Lost 92-4 22 at RPI 28 at Wesleyan INV'T Feb .. 13 UCM at Hamilton 19 at Hamilton 25-26 State Meet 25&26 UCAA Tournament 19 HOBART 25&26 UCAA Toln11ament Men's and Women's ' . . . . . . S .. - - ... - ... w··- ··1·~ ··m· 'DllDD. g . : ' \ : . . : . . ' ' • ' I ' '. , • • • . :· ' . . ~' . ' . .. .. . .. -- riVVb -:sll Jan. 8 at Williams M. Lost 154-65/ W. Lost 136-98 15 at Hatiwick M. Lost 122-117/ W. Won 122-121 19 at RPI M. Lost 126-115/W. Won 145-96 22 at Middlebury M. Lost 191-89/ W. Lost 190-89 29. Hamilton M. Lost 140-92/W. L()st 137-94 Feb. 5 ST. LAWRENCE M. Lost 123-119/W. Won 119-85 17-19 \Vomen's State Meet at RPI ~4-~(1 l\1cn's State 1\1cet at llamilton _1' ,...

Also is Week At U1ti0n ... ' . Febuary 17, 2000 .J7r~~~,:,., ...... ::.).. . .. ,, ... ,,.<,., .•. :~~m~~~~~:-.· .......• · ·• ,Cl:~mpet~~~,~~ \'. :,;,;, . . ~·.: . .,.-·i· ·'j··r~~;~p-~r~:$··fQJ;.,.·. · ··.··.·-. · .. ·_YI __ ···.·a····:.··.m_ ... ···:.·.··il···- .. t ... h_ .. _,···_,u·:_ .. -_·._:·. . .................. ,·<:.•:;-,,.,,........ ··· · · ·.·. ,s ... _···.t·.,.)it'•· .. a.· .•. ·s·· .. ·.·.··• :.· ·.··.·, .. :·:' .. n ~.-II . u . __ ,~<. . ..... ,- .. ~-·:..:./'·-,·<.:-:-.··:··;·:>~:-·.~:~:-:.:: ... :./::-.r:::·.··._:,..·-~ ...... ,,.._~ .... ---~- ._ _ ~Q ..... ~- _,·-.- .... ·--,-\ .... :.·-~;· llag·e·:2·4·:.: .... , · ··· ·· · · · ~. · ,_ .. ,.,_, .. ,.< ;p-£.-&-e-:lfi··· .. .•.. ~~:?!.~ ~.:·:·< ;;::; ,;: ::·s: ·y2_:~~~ :'·!.:~ .: · ... ·• •· · •· . . · ,: ··::.; . : ... I ;:.;~<~:··i6it:~1i:)i;::: .· ·:

·;.. .... · '7f at first the idea is not absurd, then there is no hope for it.'' News: E ... Mail for Senior Citizens -.·-· ... Albert Einstein Alleged Assault ' by David ·C. Brooks Editor'-in-Chief and Jessica.Zueblke News Editor slapped het ill the facel spinn:ing report with Campus Safety on her aroUI1d but not sending ller te Tuesday, said, \It was difficult to the ground. to move around. Suddenly [the · She began screaming and c~fs- victim] wmed aroUild and said ing at Attanasio,. who then lunged 'What are. you art [ ex,pletlve]?' I ThepastSaturday,February19, towards her, putting botb. his repliedbysay'Yeah,I'man[exple- a female sophomore Union College hands around her neck. Accord- tive].' She then shoved me in the student was allegedly assaulted ing to the Campus Incident Rep()rt, face and I pushed her away with ~...,.,_..,.,-,=-\\\ while dancing at a r\\-\~~~~__ party at Kappa r-'--~...:......----~~..:;....,.~~~~,>·J Sigm~. Captain of. Letters: More Views on.· Senior Gift Page 12 Features: the Union football team Joseph Attanasio suppos~. edly hit her on the dance floor at the 201 Sewaa:d apartment. \Iknowwhathap- pened, he knows what happened, and · people who saw it. know w:hat hap- pened. The truth will prevail,\ she said. A witness, speak~ ing <ln the cd.ftdition I 1 . _.· f! ' ' ' ~ . >- ~- -of anonyi11ity, re-. Editor Sounds.· •. callecltheevent. Ac- off on Snow cording to th.e source, the two were Sports: dancing on a crowded <lance floor when the al- leged victim was bumped into by Attanasio. After repeatedly bump- ing into each otper, she said, ••Ex- cuseme; leave me alone.\ Attanasio apparently replied by s~yilt.g, \What are you gopn:a do tome?\ Kappa Sigma, at 101 Seward Place, was the location of a physical altercation Saturday night. she \had red marks on her neck where it appeared a hand had grabbed.\ It was then thatnearby students realized what was going on and separated the two. The screaming contjnued and Attanasio l!ig.ain tried to attack her but was held back by a number of students. my hands on her shoulders. Mar- quis gtab:bed me and she tried.to come back after me. She was held back and I walked into another room. I stayed half an hor before walking home. The police appar- · ently did't arrive unil an hor after the incident.\ According to the source, she Merger Rumor by Jessica Zuehlke News Editor In response to recent rumors that Kappa Sigma planned to initiate former brothers of Delta Upsilon and Beta Theta Pi into their frater- nity, Michael Sheehan, president of Kappa Sigma, told Concordiensis, \There is no Beta Theta Pi/Delta Upsilon/Kappa Sigma merger.\ Sheehan also informed Concordiensis that the idea was discussed over the summer of 1999 with former brotherss of Delta Up- silon and current brothers of Kappa Sigma. When the fall term · began, the idea of a merger flew around with the brothers of all three houses, but nothing finn was re- solved. The only thing Kappa Sigma considered was taking a group of sophomores as pledges who were at one p()i,nt .af(iliated . · with Delta Upsilon and/or Beta Theta Pi. Sheehan went directly to Dean Schurick before making any con-. crete decisions. He showed Dean Schurick a list of p()ssible pledges . and asked her if she had any prob- lems with their potential new mem- ber emolhnent. Dean Schurick told Sheehan that initiating that specific group of sophomores would lead Kappa Sigma down a path. that would most Women Swimmers Take the Plunge The source claimed that the vic- tim proceeded to push Attanasio away. Consequently, Attanasio Attansio, however; told a differ- ent story. Attansio, who file.d a Continued on page 3 likely end in a loss of their charter. -~------------~-------..-.'---------------1 Dean Schurick told Sheehan that ~ ' ' '·' ·calitf,.Jis News- 2.~3 · '0piniQn!r~v6-i· ·· . _· ; . . ··,)\:;' - .. '.:' ·.- .. ·. ' .. -' ' - -'~, ....... ·. '• :.· ... - Fealuresc_i~~ 1tt·-- · •.;-. \:''·' ..•.. , '· '' . ~,'';\.~ ..... ;·:;:,;· '.l'r-- .·'• ·: .·~ ;·.·-··,:·. · A &·E-12 WotldlYews -14 Technology- 17 . . . ' . ·~pV,I.,~S,- J9 : . .. - Trustees Announce Tuition . . - by .Jeff Silver Staff Writer This past weekend, thirty-one men and women met on campus to make decisions. that will have a pro- found effect on Union College. Intheir yearly meeting, the Union College Board of Trustees set a new budget, allotting .more funds to the financial aid department while attempting to limit increases in tuition over the next few years. The Trustees also increased fac- ulty wages, and decided to fund a Campus Activity Board, which will have the money to org;mize stu- dent events. When the Tmstees meet each year, they are divided up into dif· ferent committees, such as Admis- sions, Financial Aid, and the U2K program~ At the end of the weeke11d, the committees come together to report their tmdings and discuss the final budget for tbe college. Union's endowment is $277 million, and the draw on endowment represents flf- and freeze tuition, the board real- izes that is not a practical idea at this time. ~~--~~--~--~------~--~----. If Union does receive an en- ;· ... ,: .. .':·,.J(:fhe:ifitsteeS · have·· ~;=~~~a:t ~:~~ ' ' .;;~~::x~~ ~na~.~7#~ .. ' ~~:~ ;:~~d r:.~ , yeqJ!.~~s·tuztzo:n~ ... wzll be. ~;::: o~ ~~~n~ '-.: . .:·,:-i.$91j:~6o2;·,;wfitcflls' a .. · ~~~: re~:~~t:~; ..3~36% '.fncr'ease over financialaidbud- -- .. , get, which came '. .. ..·. . the pas. t year. \ out to $17.5 mil- . .. lion. This number '. ~ :. . · .... - comes from tak- . ing thirty-five ~~--~~~~~~--~~--~----~ percent of the teen percent ofthe revenues in the $86 million operating budget. The Trustees have decided that next y\ear's tuition will be $3[,602, which is a 3.36% increase over the past year. While they would Jike follow the path ofWilliams College money brought in. from regular stu- dent tuition, up from twenty-two percent last year. The board was very committed to meeting the fmancialneed of stu- Conti11ued on page 4 the problem with those sopho- mores was that they had been af- filiated with Delta l]psilou and/or Beta Theta Pi. Immediately after being given this information, Kappa Sigma de- cided to drop all ideas of a merger. Speaking ofKappa Sigma's idea to possibly initiate the former Delta Upsilon/Beta Theta Pi brothers, Sheehan said, \I was going to do it if[ the group of sophomores] had a clean record, but they didn't.\ \Our possible future pledge class was reduced to fourteen freshmen and on.e sophomore, none of whom ever had any previ- ous affiliation to Delta Upsilon or Beta Theta Pi,\ commented Sheehan. Sheehan met with Dean Schurick multiple times since the idea was fust proposed. This past Tuesday, the two spoke about the new list ofpledges, the merger which Dean Schurick denied to .have any knowledge of Delta Upsilon's in- volvement, and the assault incident at Kappa Sigma this past Saturday Dean Schurick did not oppose the revised pledge list. i !

''If at first the idea is not absurd, then there is no hope for it. '' News: E-Mail for Senior Citizens Page 3 OpEd: Letters: More Views on Senior Gift Page 12 Features: Editor Sounds off on Snow Page 10 Sports: Women Swimmers Take the Plunge Page 22 Inside Campus News ... 3 Opinions- 6 Features - 10 A &E-12 World News -14 Technology-17 Sports -19 Our E-mail concordy@ vu.union.edu ~--------------------~ -Albert Einstein n• rrz:w..........,..•ne,=n r==z znue\O~ r= - Alleged Assault by David C. Brooks Editor-in-Chief and Jessica ZueMke News Editor The past Saturday, February 19, a female sophomore Union College student was allegedly assaulted slapped her in the face, spinning her around but not sending her to the gwund. She !>egan screaming and curs- ing at Attanasio, who then lunged towards her, putting both his hands around her neck. Accord- ing to tile Campus Incident Report, report with. Campus Safety on Tuesday, said, \It was difficult to to move around. Suddenly [the victim] turned arom1d and said 'What are you an [expletive]?' I replied by say 'Yeah, I'm an [ exple- tive].' She then shoved me in the face and I pushed her away with while dancing at a r---------------,....--------.,.--__,.,......,..,--..,---,---, party at Kappa Sigma. Captain of tb.e Union football team Joseph Attanasio suppos- edly hit her on the dance floor at the 201 Seward apartment. \I know what hap- pened, he knows what happened, and people who saw it know what hap- pened. The truth will prevail,\ she said. A witness, speak- · ing on the condition of anonymity, re- called the event. Ac- cording to the source, the two were dancing on a crowded dance floor when the al- leged victim was bumped into by Attanasio. After repeatedly bump- ing into each other, she said, \Ex- cuse me, leave me alone.\ Attanasio apparently replied by saying, \What are yeu gonna do to me?\ Kappa Sigma, at 201 Sewarci Place, was the location of a physical altercatio-n Saturday night. she \had red marks on her neck where it appeared a hand had grabbed.\ It was then that nearby students realizecl what was going on and separated the two. The screaming continlled and Attanasio again tried to attack her but was held back by a number of students_ my hands Oil her shoulders. Mar- quis grabbed me and she tried to come back after me. She was held back and I walked into another room. I stayed half an hor before walking home. The police appar- ently did 't arrive unil a.n hor after the incident\ According to the source, she Merger Rumor by Jessica Zuehlke News Ediror In r~esponse to recent rumors that Kap:pa Sigma planned to initiate forme-r brothers of Delta Upsilon and 13-eta 'Theta Pi into their frater- nity. Michael Sheehan, president of Kappa Sigma, told Concordiensis, \There is no Beta Thetil Pi/Delta Upsilon/Kappa Sigm<l merger.\ Sheehan a !so in formt>d Concordiensis that the idea was discussed over the summer of 1999 with f()rmer brotherss of Delta Up- silon and current brothers of Kappa Sigma. \\'ht>n the fall term began, the idea of a merger flew aroUlld with the brothers <Jf all three hm.!St'S, but nothing fim1 was n:- solved. The only thing Kappa Sigma considered was taking a gmllp of sophomores as pledges who were> at one point affiliated with Delta Upsilon andfor Beta Theta Pi. Sheehan went directly to Dean Scl1urkk before making any con- crete d:ecisions. He showed Dean ScllUri<:k a list of possible pledges and asked her if she had any prob- lems with their potential new mem- ber errollment. Dea11 Schurick t~ld Sheehan that initiating that specific group of sophomores would lead Kappa Sigma down a path that would most The source claimed that the vic- tim proceeded to push Attanasio away. Consequently, Attanasio Attaasio, however, told a diffe-r- ent story. Attansio, who filed a Continued on page 3 likely end in a loss of their charter. ---------------------------------------i Dean Schurick told Sheehan that Trustees Announce Tuition by Jeff Silver Staff Writer This past weekend, thirty-one men and women met on campus to make decisions that will have a pro- found effect on Union College. In their yearly meeting, the Union College Board of Trustees set a new budget, allotting_ more funds to the financial aid department while attempting to limit increases in tuition over the next few years. The Trustees also increased fac- ulty wages, and decided to fund a Campus Activity Board, which will have the money to organize stu- dent events. When the Tmstees meet each year, they are divided up into dif- ferent committees, such. as Admis- sions, Financial Aid, and the U2K program. At the end of the weekend, the committees come together to report their fmdings and discuss the final budget for the college. Union's endowment is $277 million, and tfue draw oil endowment represents fif- and freeze tuition, the board real- izes that is not a practical idea at this time. r-----------------------------------~ If Union does nThe Trustees have decided that next receive an en- dowment a:s large as the one at Wil- liams, then the Board would at- year's tuition will be tempt to put a freeze on tuition. The Trustees also revised the financial aid bud- get, which came out to $17.5 mil- lion. This number $31,602, which . lS a 3.36% increase over the past year. \ L-----------------------------------~ comes from tak- ing thirty-five percent of the teen percent of the revenues in tile $86 million operating budget. The Trustees have decided tllat next y\ear's tuition will be $31 ,6()2, which. is a 3.36% increase over tile past year. While they would like follow the path of Williams Colle~e money brought in from regular stu- dent tuition, up from twenty-two percent last year. The board was very committed to meeting the fmancial need of stu- Continued on page 4 the problem with those sopho- mmes, was that they had been af- filiate(\ with Delta Upsilon andJor Beta Theta Pi. Immediately after being given this information, Kappa Sigma de- cided to drop all ideas of a merger. Speaking of Kappa Sigma's idea to possibly initiate the former Delta Upsilon/Beta Theta Pi brothers, Sheeltan said, \I was going to do it if[ the group of sophomores] had a clean ::record, but they didn't.\ \Our possible future pledge class was reduced to fourteen freshmen and one sophomore, none of whom ever had any previ- ous affiliation to Delta Upsilon or Beta Theta Pi,\ commented Sheellan. Sheehan met with DeanSchurick multiple times since the idea was first proposed. This past Tuesday, the t\Vo spoke about the new list of pledges, the merger which Dean Schurick denied to have any knoviledge ofDelta Upsilon's in- volvement, and the assault incident at Kappa Sigma this past Saturday. Dean Schurick did not oppose the revised pledge list. ..

a p-us Life Page 2 • February 24, 2000 •([mt.eo-rvien5!'lia Security Incident Report Sunday, February 13- Saturday, February 19 Sunday, Februatry 13,2000: Criminal Mischief Substance Abuse . Substance Abuse Life Safety Violati()n Motor Vehicle Acrcident 1 :56 am West Co liege. Vandalism to ceiling tiles. 3:19am Whipple Bridge area. Conduct Charg~s filed. 5:35pm West College. Conduct Charges filed. 9:20am Fox Hall. Vandalism to hal1androomsmoke Detectors. Life Safety Violations issued. Reamer Center loading dock. Property damage accident. Monday, February 14, 2000: Criminal Mischief FireAlmm Criminal Mischief Tuesday, February 15,2000: 9:35amSottthCollege. Vandalism to hallways and Lounges. 9:36am Reamer Center. Accidental cause from burnt toast 1:55pm West College. Vandalism to walls. Criminal Mischief 3:04am South College. P~psi Machine vandalized. Criminal Mischief 2:00pm Raymond House. Vandalism to bathroom fixtures. Larceny 3:40pm Edwards House. Theft of jacket and contents. Wednesday, February 16,2000: Criminal Mischief Larceny 11: 17am Fox HalL Vandalism to kitchen door4 1:35pm F o:xiDavidson lot Theft ofhub cap parts. Thursday, February t 7, 2000: Larceny Criminal Mischief Life Safety Violation Solicitation Unauthorized Entry Friday, Februa.ry 18, 2000: 12:33am Reamer Center. Theftofofficechair. Student Identified, conduct charges filed 2:OOam North College. Damage to 2nd floorhallway wall. 9: I Oam F()X. R.A. recovered unauthorized :key. Ctmduct Charges and Life Safety Violation is1;ued. 3:55pm Raymond lot. Byers found on vehicles in lot. Message left with company advising of policy. 1 0:28pm Science & Engineering. Student forced open Perimeter door. Conduct Charges filed. Criminal Mischief 2:22am North Terrace Lane. Vandalism to traffic gate. C()nduct Charges filed Solicitation 3:55pm Reamer Center. Unauthorized solicitors in Building. Identified and arrested for trespass. Minor Fire 6:16pm Riclunond. Minorfireintrashcanfrom ·I Student Forum Notes Call to Order: 7:01 pm Attendance; Christy Weafer (L); Erin Aloan (A); Meghan O'Keefe(A); IanEletz:(L); JenCaruso (A); tizKaier(L); Steve Schuler (A}; Jon Lemle{L); Mary Kate Aveni (A); Ke-vin Nealon (A) . Approval ofMinutes~ Via Email; minutes approved Officer R;eports: VP of Administrati()n (Christy Weafer )-Nothing to report VP ·Of Fi11a11ce (Bdan Roacbe)-Nothing to report VP of Calllpus Life (Paul Stewart-Stand)-Fri,, 2125: come- dian; Sat., 2)26: thruway concert VP of AAC {Danette Slev'inski)-Discussing pass! fail options as wellasmendillg problems concerning common lunch hour . . VP of Multicultural Affairs (Debbie Pellisb)-Multicultural celebration was successful;. MAG luncheon (2'11 7, noon, multicultural room); Black History Month Trustees (Andy Markowsk.i)-Special elections (21.25); trustee · · meeting (2/18-2/19) IFC (Noah Trueger)-Bids out, pledging can start 8th week; KA invited to attend IFC meetings PanHel (Megban O'Keefe)-Nothing to report THC (Ian Eletz)-Recruitment event (Wed., 2123) Class of2000 (Karen DeVito)-Working on compiling senior gift giving committee; discussing senior dinner with President Hull Class of 2001 (Jon Lemle in Steve Schuler's absence)- •• Nothing to report Class of 2002 (Julie Wittekind)- Nothing to rep(}rt Class of2003 (Pooja Kothari)- Working on fundtaising for · beginning .of next term (taffle ofsome sort} Committee Reports: SAC (J~n Lemle in .Jen Caruso's absence)-Srnith House awarded 3-year housing extension; Bronner House toiJe reviewed next week; new alcohol policy should pass Old Business: U2K Committee-Discussing revisions to proposal (technicali- ties with regards to wording); Student Forum planning on analyz- ing content of proposal (offering committee its owrueport) New Business: Athletic Planning Committee-Sarah Nickerson sele-cted as non- varsity member of ad hoc committee to review_athleiic facilities at UnionCollege Common Lunch Rour-AAC would like suggesti()lns as to how to mend problem with Union's common lunch hour(Student Fo- rum discussion via email) Announcements: Fri., 2/18-Movie Trivia Night at Rathskellar MotiontoAdjoum: Second: meetingadjoumed.at7:37pm Announcements Amtouncing the Tenth Annual Charles Proteus Steinmetz Symposium May 12, 2000 Students with creative, scholarly and research achievemnt need to register through the Steinmetz Symposium Web Site steinmetz2000. union.edu Discarded burned food. No injury or property damage .. All students who attend NCU:R are expected t{) present. Saturday, February 19, 2000: Criminal Misch.ie:f Housing Violatio11 Criminal Mischief Criminal Mischief FireAlann Criminal Mischief Larceny Motor Vehicle Accident Unauthorized Entry 12:25am Davidson. Vandalism to LifeSafetyequipment Conduct Charges filed 12 :23.am Davidson. Unauthorized party in dorm room Conduct Charges filed. 2:35am Reamer Center. Vandalism to wall inMen'sroom 3:44am Davidson. Vandalism to chairs in stu<ly lounge. Conduct Charges filed 4:47am Seward Pl. Fire alannac1ivated from burned Food on stove. 4:45am Fox. Vandalism to chairs in study lo.unge. 12: I Opm Hale House. Theft of & foot folding table. 3:20pm West College lot. Property damage accident Involving college vehicle. No injuries 4:36pm Alumni Gym. Report ofyouths in httilding. I clentifi ed and warned of private prGperty status. Come write for the Concordiensis! Meetings at 8 PM every Thursd~y in CC 303 David Cotter, Assistant Professor of Sociolog~ will be considered for reappointment this term. Any member ofthe campus community wishing to offerwrittenorora1 testimony concerning Professor Cotter should contact a member of the Reappoin1rnent Review Committee. The committee members are: Ilene Kaplan, committee chair (Sociology Department: kaplani@union.edu); Martha Huggins (Soci()Jogy: hugginsm@union.edu); Therese McCarty (EcO<nornics: mccartyt@union.edu). The Adirondacks Winter 2000 Seminar Series TODAY: \People Partnerships and Politics: A View from the Chair\ March 2: \Wild Visiorts\ March 9: .. Adirondack Folk, Bluegrass and Clog Dancing\ All events take place in the Nott Memorial at 1 PM Uni<Jfi College Undergraduate Summer Research Fellowships Available Earn .$2500 .plus free room at the Co 1le~e. All applicants must have a faculty SpOtllsor. Get i11formation and applications at the Dean's Office . SlOO Science Center Applications due March l. ,, po~ the jon lati to,•· ha~ cer no is. ] pre fra ers tut ye: So JUI Se: be tin ev• n<¥ tiv tw H< co co da se: tm li d a tl ( n d n b s I J

·I Campus News OJmu.,rhle:nsis•February 24, 2000 • Page 3 Seniors Learn Women's Reformed Rush the Internet by Gina Campanella StajJWriter Many college stUdents fmd it im- possible to imagine a life without the Internet. However, a vast ma.,. jority of·the United States' popu- latien does not know how to begin to'\'log.on.\ The Chi Psi Fraternity has. decided to address this con- cern that many senior citizens have no idea what the elusive lnteJ,Uet is. ln order to attempt to resolve this problem and to work toward their fraternity philanthropy, the broth- ers of Chi Psi organized an Internet tutorial for senior citizens. This year's course was establislled by Sophomo~·e Adam Cappel in con- junction with the Annie Schaffer Senior Center. Sophomore Campbell Heath and Sophomore J.R. Fowler. Cappel coriimented thatideally, the seniors should have a basic computing course 1 \but t]ley lack necessary de~terity in their hands · for using the mouse.\ In addition Cappel decidedly stated, \I like to teach in front of . seniors.\ His many rea!)ons for ,this in- cluded the seniors eagerness and willingness to learn. During the workshop, seniors learn how to set up their OVIIl Email accounts through Hotmail, they learn how to use basic seaxch en- gines and how to manage people searches. The seniors are also taught how to. shop on line. \Basi cally, they are taught how :to surf on-line,\ Cappel commented. by Clare Canal andMary Felton Staff Writers It is that time of year on Union Coll~ge'scam.pus when freshmen are given the opportunity to ex- plore Greek life. In the past,. women's Rush has taken .place at the beginning <>fwinterterm. This rush process differed greatly from that of the men, in that it was of a more structured nature and it also in- volved all ofthe Panhel~ lenic houses on Union's campus. As of this year, soror- . ity rush is undergoing · some changes. One of the maj changes that have al- ready taken place was Tuczynski, ·of Gamma Phi Beta, plan. for its own unique rush, and talked about being ''rather im- will not be participating in the Pan- pressed with the attendance of the hellenic formal Rush process. freshmen. It was a nic-e way to ex- The well-established structured pose women to the Greek system.\ recruitment week for sororities Despite the partkip!ition of only takes place on campuses across two offue four Panhellenic sorori- the country. ties on campus, it was ;a collabora- This move towards a more infor- tiveeffo.rt. \Itwas apC!sitiveexpe- mal type ofRush is one ofarevo-- rience thatbroughtallthe [Panhel- lutionary nature. The idea for the lenic] sororities together. There Open-House was generated by was a relaxed atmospllere, and the Union's Panhellenic council as a way to open the doors of the sororities before formal Rush in or.derto create a more relaxed at~ mospbere for the poten- tial rushees. The Open-House process may have hetoe:d diminish some of the stress that usu- ally comes with wome-n's Rush. Tradi- tionally, sororities have been prohibited to in- vite freshmen into their The ceurse was offered once before, and Chi Psi hopes to con- tinue to host two class sess:ions every term. The course was origi- n~Lly scheduledover two consecu- tive Mondays and restricted to twenty seni(Jr citizen students. H~wever, the new and l'evised course is scheduled to run over the course of three consecutive Mon- days and willbe limited to fifteen senior citizens. Cappel emphasized the vast amount ()[interest anden.thusiasm about this course. Past senior citizen stadents have · the implementation of an Open-House in additio11 to formal sorority Rush. The reasoning behind this new addition was t() create an atmosphere where the freshmen Women's Rushposters to enco,urage women to rush. P respective houses.. In this respect, the Open- House also eliminates --~----------------- some of the former re- Cappel explained that iti$ unfor- mnate that the class size must be be¢n very approving of tbe class • women could \get to know, the series and have expressed their sisters on an informal basis. The thanks to Cappel via Email. One · two sororities that participated in senior wrote, ''Thanks for the brief this Open-House, Gamma Phi Beta introduction to the Internet (for the and Delta Delta Delta, opened their old folks these past two Mon- doors to freshmen women for an days). A job well done b:yyotLand hour each on Wednesday, Febru- your fraternity brothers,illcluding . ary 16 and Thursday, February 17. Drew [Riffle}whomlrnetbrieflyand Both Rush chairs of the houses who pr(')vided me with insight~ involved in the Open-House pro- ....... ----------------.......,........,_--.--......,.-...------, cedure commented on how well it ran. Sarah Gauvreau, ofDelta Delta Delta, remarked that, \The Open- House evenings were really posi- tive, leaning towards S()me of the relaxed nature of men, s rush.\ Natasha Mur hy and Darcy sisters were enthus[astic about encouraging the fresJunen to at- tend both houses,\ .commented Senior Rush Vice-President Molly Shaner. The Sigma Delta Tau sorority has the possibility ofparticipating in formal Rush. Rega:rding this is- sue, Shaner also commented, \It is the sincere hope of the Panhellenic council that Sigma D·elta Tau can participate in formal R:.ush. [Sigma Delta Tau] has successfully and en- ergetically shownther will embody a zero t()lerance for luazing.\ Delta Gamma, due to its National restrictions, will be setting up a Idol Minds Performs Megann l>en P Chi Psi Philanthropy Chair Adam Cappel teaches the Jnt~rnet to local senior citizens. limited because at least tlrtee hlm- dred senior citizens responded to an advertisement for the cDurse in the Annie Schaffer Senioi Citizen Center's newsletter. However, it is necessary to limit the dass sizes due to the desire to have a. maxi- mum of one volunteer Chj Psi brother to every two senior citizen students. The flrst class session for this term's class series was this past Monday afternoon in the Olin Center. Titere were many Chi Psi brothers present to help with the learning ptocess. These students inCluded Junior Dave Smith, Sophomore Drew Riffle, Sopho- more Tim Gascoigne, S()phomore Josh Bubbs, Junior Scott Dutcher, into surfing the net.\ 1n addition many other pa-st se- nior students have continued to show interest in a more detailed knowledge of the Internet. One past student, S()b Boutier, did not hesitate to use his brand new Hotmail Email accollllt tore- quest a few specific topics that he wished to learn more allout in the . next week's class. Cappel would definitely be inter- ested in. teaching a more=. advanced, in depth course in the fu:ture.llow- ever, at this point, the Chi Psi fra~ ternity is happy that iheir current project is finally und~nvay and they h€Jpe to make it a regular course offering formembers of the Annie Schaffer SeniDl' Center. Wruet fo-r C011,C.()-Y~J Wl!/ ~ ett ~~ evcwy Thurutay -~ c¢ B:o·o PM . c.rvcc 303. Wet ~e; ~for new ftaff ~s-, VL& e¥1'~-- r~w~yl' by Lauren Tabas Contributing Writer Last Thursday evening, Sigma Phi opened their doors to Union ,s own comedy group, Idol Minds. Mike Winn led six of the ten mem- bers of the group through a series ofimprovisa:tional skits that gu~u­ . anteed laugb.s from the more than fifty spectators. · The event started with an act by Mike Winrt called \Party Quirks.\ This gatne involved the \host'~ guessing each of the three guests• characteristics. The evening continued with other acts including \Twenty Emo- tions,., \World's Wors-t,\ and \The Alphabet Game.\ These games all required the audience to contrib- ute their ideas to create a scenario where .the actors could creatively entertain the audience. Thursday night's performers, led by Mike Winn,. included Liz Kaier, Owen Hay, Suzanne Hoyer, Aaron Seliger, Thatcher Woodley, and Avrum Joffe. A first time audience member, Adam Landry, stated '~[The petfor'- mance] was well organized, q11ite funny and without a doubt enter- taining. I will definitely be ai the next one.'' Idol Minds began last year from an idea by Mike Winn and Jon Zandman '0 1. The two wanted to create an improvisational group, a genre untouched thus far at Union. Presently, the group includes ten members, six ofwhkh are seniors, and Mark Will, a grac:luate turned coach. The club prac:tices twice a week, Sunday and Thursday. During a normal practice they concentrate on their ~bservational skills. It is important for the group members to pay stric:t attention to what is going on aroumd them, and be able to feed off ofeach other's actions. After warm-up, 1lbe group runs throug:h a few of their two dozen possib<le scenes. Aaron Seliger and Liz Kaier at- tribute the group's success to its uniqueness. Performances by Idol Minds require audience participa- tion, which makes them different from any other org:anization on campas. \[The] entlv.usiasm of the audience makes our performance better,\ added Selige-r. Kaier said, \[Idol Minds] filled a niche not present o-n campus. The group: is somethin15 new that is done very we 11, espeocially with all the talent in the group.,, Seth Horwitz, ano1her first-time spectator,. agreed, \1 think it's great. The Id()l Minds provide something different,. a nice div-ersity to cam- pus events.\ Ido 1 Minds will not conunent about tryouts until the end of Spring term. Their nextperforrmance is Friday, March 3, followingStudent Activi- ties' annual Rool:1ll'lJSte Game. Like all their other perfCJrmances, it is sure to be hilari<>as. strictions that used to exist for par- ticipating sororities. The response to this was one of overall accom- plishment. Braelin Pantel, V.P. Rho-Chi, mentioned that, \The success of the Open-House shows that [the Panhellenic sororities] will be able to make the transition to an infor- mal sophomore Rush successfully and smoothly.\ Formal Rush will take place in the first week of spring term. Registra- tim will take place until Friday at 3 PM in the Campus Center, a.nd dur- ing bmnch at West on Saturday and Sunday. Assault ..• continue/ frompage 1 walked back to her Davidson room with her friends after the incident. Her screaming and cursing woke the Resident Advisor (RA). Her RA called security, where they filed the Security Incident Report. The report stated, \Inj 1 was at- tending a party at Kappa Sigma located at 201 Seward Place when Sus 1 shoved her out of the way. Inj 1 then said to Sus 1, \Excuse me' at which time Sus 1 slapped Inj 1 in the face and grabbed her by the neck throwing her to the ground.\ This conflicts with the source which claimed that the victim was never thrown to the ground. The Schenectady police (SPD) were contacted because she wanted to flle charges. She met the police in the parking lot out- side Davidson. According to the president of Kctppa Sigma, Michael Sheehan, the police came to Kappa Sigma looking for Attanasio. \The po- lice never came into the house and no arrests were made.\ The Security Incident Report stated, \SPD also said that a war- rant will be put in for the immedi- ate arrest of Sus 1.\ At the time of print, the SPD had not issued a warrant for the arrest of Attanasio. The college is in the midst of theil' own investigation and would not comment until the investigation is complete.

Page 4 • February 24, 2000 • aiOlUadiett~h• Campus News Backstreet's Back UVMHazing by Brian Terlinsky Sports Editor Thousands of Albany teenagers were shouting and screaming last week as one of the most popular music groups ofthe 1990's came to the Capital Region for just one of many stops on their 2000tour. The Back Street Boys and theiF Millennium Tour sold out two shows at the Pepsi Arena. Fans. flocked to see their favorite sing- ers and hear the popular songs that have been heard all across the radio waves these past few years. It was truly a spectacle, and from the looks of many teenage students, The Back Street Boys were loved throughout the entire two a half- hour show. The Back Street Boy's Mil- lenniumTourtheme was self..:ex- the use ofe-.ai,Jks that were hard t() see in the <larlk. Besides that> it was pretty cr(:(ltive and origill~l en- trance. The band opened their twelve- song act ~iih one of fheir mosi popular Sl()n~s, ()ften hearcL ()ll FLY 92, \Largei\'J'hen Life .. \ E.veryone was screatr1rng and by the time the The band had about ten cos- tume changes throughout the show .. One ofthe most interesting by Laura Cotton Staff Writer parts of the show happened dur- In an effort to spread hazing ing these cust()ms changes. As awareness both within the Greek the ba:nd prepared for the next org~ations and the NCAA teams song, the members of the band at Union College, the sisters of continued to play the last song, •. Sigma Delta Tau in association witli which was an interesting part of · the brothers of Sigma Phi hosted guest speaker Chery 1 Rockwood, ·· Union's athletic trainer, Tuesday nightat 7:30PM at Sigma Phi. As many already know, a severe incident involving hazing recently ·. took place attheUniversityofVer- mont. Rockwood talked exten- sively about the episode among . TNM's hockey players. Freshmen rookies were subje<;;ted to a crude and disgusting serious of events leading up to their real initiation onto the team. One freshman hockey player goalie, who endured the entirety ofthissevere hazing, did not make the team and later di- vulged the details of the incident to authorities in Vermont who pro- ceeded to notify the University. male .... \ Upon peip,g informed of the in- cident, administration at UVM forced the hockey team to forfeit the rest of their Season, Authori- ties have since decided that the. punishment implemented by t.he University was much less severe than it should have been, and offi- cials at UVM are now under bitter scrutiny and in danger of losing their jobs. The players responsible for the hazing incident were also in direct violation of Vermont's state law and are therefore subject to crimi- nal investigation and possible pun~ ishrnent. During Tuesday night's work- shop, Rockwood stressed a com'\ mon team-building tree used by some of the top coaches in the na- tion .. She drew several similarities be- tween sports teams and Greek or- ganizations to stress that both groups necessitate many of the same individual and group charac- teristics .. p lanatory, as the group tried to make the arena atmosphere unique in an unusual sense with the new century. With hun- dreds of special effects oflight- ing, huge smoke screens, and plenty of futuristic costumes, the band's show left many people satisfied with the forty-five dollar admission fee. However, tickets outside the arena were being sold for h11ndreds of dollars, in which some desperate fans were willing to pay to see their favorite Back Street Boy. The Bac/ir;treet Boys gave a steller peiformance on Valentine's Day. Rockwood read from the article in The New York Times at the work- shop informing those in attendance ~>f the specifics of the incidents of hazing that occurred among the hockey players. During pre- season, the players were required to wake up in the middle of Sep- tember nights, drink consecutive shots of hard alcohol, and run in the nude outside. They were then told repeatedly that they would be obligated to have \sexual inter- course with a sheep.\ Rockwood explained that at the very bottom lies the dream to win in tenns of sports and the dream ef attaining acceptance within a Greek organization, The compo- nents that come as a result of an interest in an organization are com- mitment, accountability, and re- sponsibility. Once these aspects are achieved within an organiza- tion or team, the ultimate goals can be achieved. Rockwood explained that every successful team or or- ganization must adhere to this set of goals. When hazing is part of an organization, the dream will never become a reality, and the necessary respect and trust will never be earned. Hazing causes apathy towards one's organization and therefore makes the group in- capable of achieving the ultimate goals. Sigma Delta Tau graciously thanks Cheryl Rockwood for speaking andth,ehrothers of Sigma Phi for hosting :the workshop. With fans waving their pre-made posters and love signs and scream- ing at the top of their lungs, the band came out around 8: 15 PM on Monday night in a very creative and never seen before entrance. With loud background music and a smoke filled arena, the band en- tered the arena on unusual hover boards (like those seen in the movie Back to the Future Ill) flying through the air and landing one by one on the center of the stage. And don't think these were real hover boards, as all the band members were flown into the arena through concert emded, no one c-oukl bean: themsel¥.;s talk on the way ouL Other S()n~s that kept th:e teenage girls sc1·eaming were '!Ji Want h That W a'!:)'\\ and \I Need You To- night.\ sbere was not 8J1Y song which lk~pt the fans qudet. And., yes, the B:acck Street Boys dideven- tually get to the other populaT songs Otli the Millelllliam CD as well as old songs that have no•t been heard in years. S()me indudecl \Everybmdy\ and ••Quit Playing Games.\ The ·b~nd also stirred up the crowds.by bringing crazy fans on stage all throughout the perfor- mance .. Jleople were screaming; t() get a clla!lce to get on :stage with the band- J'urthermore, individual band metnbers had time to irtt10l- duce t1lel\llse lves, which created even m()lre havoc inside the sma 11 Pepsi At'e11a. the concert. Union students who attended said they actually en- joyed the instrutnental part more then the live performance by the band, which ga:ve them a chance to hear tlie songs in a different man- ner. Two lucky Union students, who found their wa.y down on the floor, could not st<Jp talking about the concert for days. \We all had a great tiine. Although we wereprdb- ably the oldest people there, we really got into the whole aspect show. What made it really fun too was having fourth row seats and being able tD'become and act like a teenager again,\ said Juniors Christi B.atler and Dana Tannenbaum. The band ends their 2000 tour in the middle of March in Toronto. I want to thank the staff for letting me take my girlfriend to the show. Trustees Meeting .•. conti1ur.etl from page 1 dents, and this figure will ensure that a large number of deserving students will receive economic support from Union as they attend school. In addi1ion to the fiscal issues of Union College students, the Board of Trustees spent a great deal of time discussing administra- tive salaries and hourly staff wages, which are both to increase by three percent. The total budget for salaries came out to $3'0.4 million. The Board also upheld the fact that pay increases will continue to be based on a merit system for performance review. The Board of Trustees contin- ued to set aside extra monetary funds for the Union Scholars Pro- gram to maintain its high quality. This program recognizes about thirty students from each incom- ing freshman class and gives them the opportunity to take more classes, work closely with profes- sors, and do different independent stu die~. The clifferent social options ;at Union '.\/ere also disc:us;sed during the meeting .. The Trustees decirlecL to forrn ~nd fund a Campus Acti\V- ity Board, which willprovide S()- cial ahe matives as tlte c.ollege ne- structure::s: social life in Cl)njunctloll with the-U2K committee. TheCa_mpus Activity Board will have thte power and th•e money to organ iz:.e different stua:!ent acti\li- ties, Sllclll as -parties in Old Chl'l\poel, to hel]l diversify social options ()n camp lis, During; each yearly meeting, d.if: ferentUmion administt';ators up date the committee on Union 's·.currenJ status. Da11 Lundquist, the Vice PresL- dent <JfPinance, reported tha1 thoe college h;adreceivedmmrethan $:3.3 millioruiil cash gifts in the frrst·hmlf of the 1£\Jrrent fiscal year.. This i..s almo:>t two million dlollars mc:>te than UJnAon had received at t:hiis time last yea1, andtheFina:nce C<ltn· mittee \Vas more tham halfwaY' to reaching their goal of raising $15 .. 7 million. Lundquist also reported that applications for admissions for next fall had already broke the 4,000 mark, which means that this year's admissions selection process will be quite competitive. Withallthe~;e decisions coming out of only one weekend, it is ap- parent that the Board of Trustees wields .a large amount ofpower at the College. \Trustees are the bosses at Union,\ said Dean of Students, , Frederick Alford. He continued, \They are in charge of 1he fundamental fidu- ciary and legal responsibilities for Union. The trustees are interested • in both the quality of education and the financial we11-being of the college, and have a deep affection for Union.'' After last weekend, it is appar- ent that the Trustees are doing an excellent job keeping Union ready for the future. When the night arrived, the freshmen \were made to eat fish pie, pass chewed bread mouth to mouth, dip their penises into glasses of beer while performing push-ups in the nude, and perform the elephant walk ... The players were then required to lay on the floor with hockey socks over their heads while naked female strippers crawled over them. The freshmen were told the strippers were male, but later found out they were fe- Snow Fun ,j>·' Sloan Miller/CP Union studl!nts Jennie Lubart, Heather Babcock, Beth Brogan and Ben Wait work on a snowma11 on Saturday afternoon after the storm that left Union covered. ,I '·' c w w m d< dJ c e< di tr S< rr e: n it z a '\) 0 d i: c u J ( l t l

Call1pus News C!Inmnrmensis • February 24, 2000 • Page 5 Union College Loses One oflts Own by.Jessica Stephens StaffWriter On February 10, the Union Col- lege community lost one ofits most we11-respee-ted individuals. Joan Robison McLou,gh.lin died two weel<:s ago, after losing her lifelong battle with cystic fibrosis, at the age <>fforty-three. For those people not familiar with cystic fibrosis, the disease is worth discussing as it remains the number one fatalh~reditary disor- der for both white adults and chil- dren living in the United States. Cys1ic fibmsis is an :inherited dis- easethat affects therespiratory and digestive systems. Mucus forms in the bronchial trees, which predisposes the per- son to duonic lung infections and makes s.omething as simple as coughing painful. Further, the dis:.. ease als() leads to the problems of malabsorption and malnutrition in its victims because pancreatic en- zymes involved in the breakdown and absorption of fats are absent. While cystic fibrosis is often shad- owed by diseases such as cancer, dia\betes and multiple. sclerosis, it is the most common cause of chnmic lung disease and contin- ues to ta:ke human lives each day. McLoughlin, better known as Joa:nie to friends and family, was diagnosed with cystic fibrosis at birth. However, she did not let the illness deter her from doing the thrngs she enjoyed most, such as skiing and sailing. She attended both Green Mountain and SUNY Albany,. joining the Union staff in 1984. Wlrile family and friends are still trying to fathom the reality of McLoughlin's death, those who lmew her best were willing to share some memories of their beloved friend. Betty Allen, Assistant Archivist in Schaffer's Special Collection de- partment and long1irne friend, de- scribed McLoughlin as \just a genuinepersonwho truly appreci- ated life,\ adding that she \never met anyone who liked to come to work ~s much as Joanie.\ Schaffer staff described McLoughlin as re- \' ,.,., .. ,ule and dedicated. Carol Pierotti, another close friend of She understood that schoolwork McLoughlin'S; remembered her came frrst.\ treatments vividly. Around lunch Freshman Orly Amir, a work time, when we all would start to get study student at Schaffer, summa- restless and hungry, Joanie would rizedMcLoughlin'.s:rolebysaying, go do her treatment and that was \She basically organized us, told it Never did she complain. It was us what to do and how to do it. somethir)g I was. always in awe of.\ She knew how to do every task.\ Carol commented on the gracious- Amir also added, \She was so ness of her friend and said, \The friendly and always smiling. She little things that people would was a great asset to the library.\ never think of doing, Joanie did. If Most of McLoughlin's co-workers you had a button missing she arestillindisbeliefthatshewillnot would stop and fix it for you, just be re.porting to work anymore. like that She was al- ..-'~~---......-.­ ways thinking other people.\ Gail . Golderman; media· · bra:tian and McLoughlin's understand McLoughlin is no longer suffering. While co-workers praised. McLoughlin's on-the-job perfor- mance and personality, it was her recent marriage to p:wfessional photographer Stan Johnson that they most enjoyed talking ab{)ut. At the time ofMcLoughlin' s death, the two had been married justtmee years. However, it was three years Joanie never expected to happen. The way in which the two met was a remarkable twist fate and one that . her husband calls, \chalked up to an- gels.\ The two had been living in adja- cent apartments in the same building complex without . Stan re- assumed it to be smoking related. As they later dis<:ov- ered, both belonged to the same singles association. One day the orga- nization sent out newsletters and Johnson's was placed in visor for the last . years, characterized · McLoughlin as a· \wonclerfulemployee at Union.\ Golderman added, \You couldn ask for a better pet- son.\ Golderman worked directly with McLoughlin in mul- timedia processing, dealing with videos, book software and non-print material. It was McLoughlin who was also re- sponsible for the fi- nal revisions and re- viewing of books, making any las minute carrections before they went out on the shelves. · McLoughlin's mail- box, a coincidence \\\\\~--~~-'Johnson believes to Courtesy Charlie Casey be arranged b)i the Joan McLoughlin, who served sixteen years at Union, mailman. Whatever died of cystic fibrosis .. According to Golderman, McLoughlin \had an eclectic job, performing a variety of unique tasks. J oa1rie did not just work with books, she worked with HTML and other resources which expanded her horizons.\ One ofMcLoughli.11' s biggest re- sponsibilities was serving as stu- dent supervisor; it is an important job because the students are the ones responsible for getting re- sources out into the hands of the community. Goldertnan com- mented, \Students really liked her, she was pretty easygoing and athetic to the kids' needs. Pierotti stated, ''[I] can't believe that she won't be walking through the door anymore. She would go for her daily treatments and always come back.\ Allen added, \We just got so complacent about the whole thing. We just expected her to re- turn, but this time it is different. She won't be coming back.\ McLoughlin had the most amazing character and never seemed to be in a bad mood. Allen remarked, \Joanie was always grateful for the day, something that is often learned through an illness.\ Although the library still mourils the lost of an intrinsic member of their team, they the case, Joanie met her new neighbor and their five- year romance began. When asking Johnson what (Jual- ity drew him most to McLoughlin, he replie~ \I saw how hard her life was and how she was always so strong. When you are around someone like that you almost tean 't not love them because they help you.\ Johnson also described his role to be the \stress absorber'' for both of them. He mentioned, ~'You worry less about your own ])TO b- lems when someone else around you has bigger ones.\ The two seemed to have an un- spoken understanding fo·r the Karate Kid Part U by Ryan Maloney Contributing Writer On February 12, members of the Union College Karate Club woke U]l bright and early to compete in an invitational TaeKwonDo tour- nament at RPI. Rubbing the sleep from their eyes and shaking out the stiffness leftover from the previous night's training~ they drove down to the 87 Gymnasium to compete with about forty othermartial artist from around the capital district. As is typieal in martial arts tour- naments. participa!l.tS had the choice to compete in Board Break- ing; Kata, Sparring, or any combi- nation of the three. In Board Breaking; competitors are graded on both the difficulty of the kick or .punch technique used t() break and the number ofboards broken. The break:i:tJ.g portion of the competition is one of the most exciting parts because of the im- pressive power and skill required to compete in the event. The Kata competition is an es- pecially difficult one, although it is often under-appreciated. It re- quires the competitor, whose rhythm, timing, power and accu- racy is graded by five judges, to demonstrate one of the many Katas studied in the martial arts. Sparring is the most easily rec- ognized aspect ofmartial arts com- petitions. Itconsists of individual matches which were won by the first competitor to score three points. The dedicated members of the Karate Club who ventured down to the RPI tournament were Chris Tomaselli, Denise Erbentraut, Yoko Kawano, Jonathan Lawless, Ryo Fujirnori, Kevin Carter, and Ryan Maloney. Tomaselli competed mthe begin- ning/interrnediate Spaning divi- sion,. during which he fought an exceptional match. He quickly took a two-to-zero lead, but was beaten when his competitor rallied with a series ofback-fists. Although Erbentraut competed in both Sparring and Kata, her most notable performance was in the Kata competition. Erbentraut took an impressive first place victory in her division. Kawano also competed in the Kata competition. Although it was disappointing to see her beaten out of third place by one point, the spectators were all impressed by her style and perseverance. Carter competed fought his way to third place in the Sparring com- petition. Ryo Fujimori took first place in the lightweight Sparring division. Despite being suddenly moved into a much more difficult bracket, his speed and power attracted the attention of many of the higher ranks who were surprised by his skill level. Maloney was also competing in the advanced lightweight Sparring division and the f'IrSt place match was between Fujimori and Maloney. After bringing the match to an even two-to-two, Fujimori tagged Maloney with a well-ex- ecuted series of kicks and punches. Lawless did not compete, but was kind enough to provide solid team support from the sidelmes. All of the competitors were gracious for this support. Anyone interested in meeting the Karate team. stop by th-e aero- bics room of the Alumni Gyl11Ila- sium on Tuesday or Friday at 7:30 PM. The club is always open to new members. For information, e- mail Ryan Maloney (maloneyr@union.edu) or Ron Rushneck (ruslmecr@Union.edu). other, but when Joan was taken into critical care on February 8, Johnson described it as \almost a surprise.\ He added, \you couldn't believe the end was coming for such an optimistic person. There was a feeling of resistance to it all.\ When the hospital put McLoughlin on a ventilator sys- tem, it was up to her to decide when her time was. Stan remarked, ''When you struggle for as long as she did you begin to understand that once you get to a certain point, the struggle is over. She had such an incredible will but her body was just too weak.\ He said, \It was up to her to decide when she wanted to dose one door and open up an- other, and she did. All she had to do was give up the struggle.\ In the midst of sadness, Johnson felt it was important to highlight the positive. \It was tragic and so quick. But she went in a way we all wish we could go. Joan was sur- rounded by those who loved her. We don't have those nagging un- answered questions that often ac- company other types of death. That gave us peace. We know and believe she is in a better place.\ McLoughlin lived quite a long time for someone with her disease. According to Johnson, \Most people with McLoughlin's illness don't make it out of their teens.\ Last Tuesday, a service was held in Memorial Chapel to honor McLoughlin. Her brother, Chad, a professional musician in New York City, played The Beatles song \All My Loving,\ as a tribute to his sis- ter, who was a great lover of the band and of music. In addition, the library made a donation in McLoughlin's memory to the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation to help in the fight against this dis- ease. McLoughlin lived a life of grace and dignity. She did every- thing in spite of all the things she had to do to maintain her health. Allen says of her friend, \She wore her cross well.\ The Union community will greatly miss this unique individual. She embodied all that was good and was truly a role model for us all.

Page 6 · February 24, 2000 · <IInnrnrmmsit Newsworthy Over the last week, the rumor mill at Union College has generated a great deal of speculation as to whether or not the Kappa Sigma fraternity will be absorbing the \pledges'' and \bvotiD.ers\ of Delta Upsilon and Beta Theta Pi. There have been postings on the DailyJolt Web site claiming that it is not true. There has been a posting on the Concordiensis Web site dema11ding that an artiCle be written be- cause it is a real news story. We are left to wonder why there is so much interest in the fate of football playing fraternity brothers. If these individu.als decide that they want to pledge to a fraternity that the school recognizes, why should it be such a scandalous story? What is the relevance to the rest ofthe campus community? None. It is insignificant It is merely Union College gossip. That is not to say, however, that there are not.real issues on which the student body needs to focus. It is extremely conoeeming to note that half of the people who responded to a poll on the DailyJolt's Web site claimed not to know what U2K is. Whi1e thjs is not a scientific survey, the fact remains that half of the respondents did · · not choose either an option supporting the cha11:g(!s or opposing OP/ED '(EARS oF ACAt:IEM\C. EXCELlENCE thern. The only conclusion that may be drawn fr-om this is that mmy~~~e~cr~n~t~e~re~rtre~m~,mipore~~---~---------------------~-~-~~------ This is even more alarming in light of the fact that the U2K Prelimi- The Future of the union Legacy· : nary report has been issued, Concordiensis has covered it exten- . sively in the past few weeks, and a very large percentage of the students on this campus would he affected by changes proposed in the committee's preliminary report, for better or worse. If students do not care about a report that addresses issues rang- ing from housing and the Greek system to facalty and academic • issues, then there really is only one question that remains to be asked: What do the students of Union College care about'? Perhaps the student body truly is interested in tile possibility of two fraternities merging with a third more than topics that can ac- tually affect their daily lives, however if that is tlte case then we must urge them to take a step back and reconsider. There is more to life than this. There are things happening on this campus that will affect the future of Union College. These changes may be more significant than any the school has made since it began admitting women. Given this fact, students should be energized at having the opportunity to contribute during this pivotal moment in Union's his- tory. Will the school continue to have a Greek sysiem? Will Union abandon the trimester system in favor of a sem.ester-based aca- demic calendar? These are issues that may affect cvrrent students, · but will surely affect future classes, and we can only hope that this knowledge can invigorate the students to voice their opinions and attempt to influence the admin.istration. It doesn't matter if they · choose to say, \Leave the Greek system alone, it is a vital institution and a part of the college's history and tradition,\ or \Abolish this institution as it detracts from the social life an<l promotes stereo- · types and bias.\ Your opinion does not matter so much as yoar .desire to voice it. But don't claim that an article about whether or not Kappa Sigma is merging with Delta Upsilon and Beta Theta Pi is a real, newsworthy event when compared to these other, greater issues. I am writing in response to the Senior Trustee, Andy Markowski's edit~nial concerning the senior gift last week. I am currently a Junior here at Union, and I believe that the .controversy surrounding this year's Senior Gift poses a great threat to all classes that are at Union now and to all who plan on attending Union in the future. As Senior Trustee, Markowski was elected by his fellow students to be a representative- a person who should not simply \commend the seniors who have taken the time to-voice their ideas,\ but rather <1 person who should support them <md fight on their behalf in order to carry out the will of the majority. Instead, Markowski belittled his constituents by writing, \It is easy for people who do not spend twenty to forty hours a week serv- ing their fellow students to criti- cize their dedicated classmates.\ By attacking the people who are trying to have their voices heard, Markowski eliminated the individual's power and acted as judge against all those whom had the position he is currently hold- ing. It is .easy for an officer, who does not have to he concerned withbeingreelected,to be blinded by his false notion of power and to ultimately ignore the concerns and desires of the larger whole. Perhaps the most disturbing section ofMarkowski' s article was when he noted that, \At many col- leges across the country, the Se- nior Gift is simply a scholarship each year, leaving no choice at all for the class.\ Luckily, UnionCol- lege is not currently lumped along with the conglomeration of those other colleges across the country in this respect. Bvt just the fact that Markowski added this sen- tence shows that he is not con- cerned with creating a Union that listens to and is shaped by the wills of the students. It is obvious that, as an elected leader, he has bee11 dominated by his superiors, and is grateful for the token decision- making that he is allowed. The purpose of a representative government is to pull ideas from every aspect of the campus so that one small faction does not hold the majority of power; The Senior Gift may seem to be a small issue at the moment, but history has proven that when a small number of people absorb the majority of control, the greater good of the public is jeop- ardiz;ed. The Senior Trustee should be aware that what Union College \needs\ is innovation and greater student involvement. We are now being presented with an opportu- nity to change the history of Union. Right now there are stu- dents on this campus who care abouttheir college, and when they graduate they want to leave behind a Union they are proud of- a Union they will want to return to- a Union they would want to send their children ta. Union is in jeop- ardy of losing the legacies of the disenchanted Class of 2000 and quite possibly the legacies of ev- ery subsequent, power-stripped class. * All quotes were taken from Senior Trustee, Andrew Markowski's article (2/17). JustineM. Willey Class of 2001 entrusted him by electing him to MSM~--------~----~~------------------------------~------------~ '\i > -~. \\' • ~' r 'r • I .- ' y - . ' ~-.......o;o~.-.... ................. . : .: ·:· .··· .. : ._·. ~--. ':·,,_.:_~:-~·--: .· ·- .• · .. _·;··:···.dJ·: >,~~::-'·.; _.,··_· ... Lett~t'!?<>}tcx. &.-.D~§~l~·m~f .. ·_: _·,_ ... - ~ ~ ', -,-~. \_:-:..- '-\~.;·~.'~'-· '.:-~· .:::,· :-~·. • '.,'-.: :~;\~?~~: .. ~:.t·.<-·:<c:- ,· ·:_:~.~::.:?1 • • ) : • ~- • --; • • • ' •• t . - :' :. - '•:-. _,,;' •.. ' ' . > ;~ ~:; }:.: •. ;•. :/-_ ' ' ; ,.<.-; . •Letters to ~eE<Iiwr.~h<i!ll<i'beaddfesse~t~9Ie1()PJJ3D·p,age midl111l$t b~ +~~tv~d-~Y?l~¥. thery!q*W\y,1J~rri,r¢puQitqaftort~ Letters·)nti~tbe less .. ttiat1.5,()o:word$• andsl]fiMdpertain:.it; -~ is~!i¢-~t¥~il~e~~eu~~~:¢C>ue.g~cpm~t¥< . · ·_ · :>.·:< . · Finafoeqi~ions cpriceoiingprfutillg arid!~r~ting'}}su~n.:U~; sio#-hel()ng_to.the:EW~<>riala9ar~t··Ailleff~~;itt~~tb¢:sigfle¢ . (uiougli'~Mu~for'B,n9hYniQlispu,hlic~1iotL!ji:l,yb~cQ$idere4 . bythe~1t~sJ~d's~v~<f~Jfi.KpJgb..d~sjtj't1i.~~~.L~er~·aqn~~ nee~sshli\yt¢fl~cttl1.¢opiill~h;oftheJ3ditb~~~l7oNtt~ >·~ ._· :.• .. ·····.\:: · Editon#reti~~tl1Jopiniob.ofamajori1;'o£tf1e·&utorf~ao.ar:~ , aq.d nfno orie rttem1Jednp~icular. Any~o!\it}tOil colll11Jj1$.Qr . cartoori$tef1e6f th,t!'qpihion~:of the writ~rr~:c)r:,~i$ts; $dii0t necessarily:theopipipnsoftbe:actitorial.l3C;iar4· ' · ·· .. ·(, · · Adve!1isemeuts ~pp:e~~gin ·c(Jit6ol'tdr~n$i¥4o.rl~t11ecetJ~ sCllilyreflecttheepipjons Qfthe.Editonall39cif<t~· ' >_· .• ·' •.. ·. ~- . _: ' ' .. - ,._ ' -.. ' ' ~ ·.: . . . ' ... Concordiensis isprintecl by StaffieldPrinting, 7so':Pierce Road C1iftonParkNY'12065. '·, . . '(· ; .. ·:· · .. ~ ... '; ':·:'· ... .J.' -;··. Seward Memorial has Support To the Editor: I am writing in response to Andy Markowski's editorial regarding the Senior Gift. Being wholly in favor of a gift that is supported by the Senior Class, as well as one which adds to the cultural atmo- sphere of both Union College and s.chenectady, I remain unconvinced that construction of a Seward Memorial would be sheer impossibility. I feel Markowski's response to such an idea was in- adequate and did not address the key issues involved in securing such a gift. Markowski essentially pins his entire argument for the choice of a class gift on the financial aspects involved. While these are viable concerns, in this case they are used primarily as a diversion from the inability of student representative to effectively represent the student body. ln truth, a large majority of the Senior class does not support any of the senior gift choices pre- sen ted io them. For Markowski to write that the options they do sup- port are \ ... projects far outside the feasible price range\ and fail to see that the options presented to the class are not supported in theory and will definitely not be sup- ported financially is extreme short- sightedness. Projects such as a Seward memorial have already re- ceived a large base of support on campus, in the form of monetary pledges, from both stuclents and faculty alike. Student willingness to contribute to a gift will be pro- porti<mal to the enthusiasm they feel for it. The Gift Connnittee has done nothing to encourage any support for this year's gift The only factor that would make the gifts presented by the Commit- tee more \feasible\ would be the fact that they were pre-determined and virtually dictated to' the Senior Gift Contrnittee. This is where Markowski, as a representative of a student body that is utterly ad- verse to these choices, should play a role. But he doesn't. Be states, \Campus planning is a complicated and lengthy process that includes numerous fact-ors and difficult de- cisions.\ So is being a member of the s:tudent government. When those who are supposed to repre- sent us claim that taking certain actions or mobilizing efforts are too difficult and too much of a lengthy process, I think we should all be seriously concerned. \It is easy for people who do not spent twenty to forty hours a week serving their fellow students to criticize their dedicated class- mates.\ r agree. It certainly is. Markowski should stop working against those dedicated students who have been working more than twenty to forty hours a week to secure a gift tl1at is symbolic of the Class of2000. Courtney A. Hayden Class of 2000 Q] f,·,;::?,~· ~ If wa;:> fro:r: Col rize be< tho1 for1 rec cial cor <;:aE mu leg llU1 ing licl wa ha' Pe vu co So th• efl ffij all ha df le: OI st ra ri: ill c: ri b: S< i~ ( l ]

- f' -l' ........ - ........ \\' t .,. . - ' OP/ED C!loru.orbieusb • February 24, 2000 ·Page 7 . . Plagiarism ... Only Cheating Yourself If I said that plagiarists are al- ways suspicious of being stolen from, artdnotcreditSatnuel Taylor Coleridge, would I h~ve plagia- rized? Yes! would but I would not be alone, millions of people have thought -of plagiarizing t()o. Un- fortunately, plagiarism d.()es not receive enough attention, espe- cially on college campuses,. if Ol).e considers the long\tenn impact :it can have on an individual or com- munity. It seems to me, as a col- lege. student, that an increasing number of students are plagiariz- ing because schools are not pub- licly confronting the issue, are not watching carefully, and do not have effective deterrence policies. Why do students plagiarize? Perhaps easy access to written and virtual print, couple with fierce competition, fuels plagiarism. Some students plagiarize because they desit:e a good.grade, -with little effort. Other students fmd they are more apt to plagiarize late at night and they are overworked, ex- hausted and unprepared~ Others decide that it is not necessary to learn skills by completing projects or writing papers so they use other students' work. Or perhaps igno- rance of what constitutes plagia- rism increases incidents, Accord- ing to the Encyclopedia Ameri- cana, \The infraction (of plagia- rism) is not theft of the work itself, but false representation as to the source ... What may not be adopted is the other erson'::; .. ue method or subject treatment The copy need :uot be ideutic\1.1 to be a plagiary. So long 1\S the essence ofthe original is used, the: offense is committed.\ In 1987, lawyers and scientists dismissed allegation:s that Einstein's \Theory afRe:lativity\ was taken from David HillleFt''s re .. search. If these doubts wel'e con~ :finned, the detrimental ~pact to the public's confidence in the scien- of education, which affects the entire college community. Some professors say this it is necessary for them to use less-effective in- structional methods to prevent pla- giarism. Another cost -of plagia- rism which ·influences the entite community is the degradation of :respect for learning. According to economist Joel Slemr.od,. m~ny countries have a supply of \social capital:\ time stlldents must see rules and regulations as \reasonable and fair\ in order to build a stock of honesty. Presetving and increas- ing the number of honest students is esse11tial to prevent plagiarism and create a better learning envi- ronment Slernrod also believes that a sys- tem that relies on voluntary com\ pliance may increase the cost of government. People are able to tific community wouldhave been substantial. In another case, at Princ.eton Uni- versity a student copied large sec- tions of a Span- hide their . ~>,;~:'ii~j,it.~~ifm~i[ph~t·~!cnrJ~nts .. whe, plagiarize focus on m 0 n e y ~~fif5,1~~;;::~~~~~~;n~;he. i~ES; _,_. ''·~~.· ,,,(£({!1:P:J!rt:~t.,§~Y:4e;.rJ,($\ themselves of plagiarismpoli- -\ ' ' ,. ifit~'it~¢tJ.':'awti ~kiltsfor. the.future. n, cies are too le- ish textbook for her Senior Thesis. She .claimed that the ro.is;sing cita- tion wasamere technicalen:-or. But, the publisher held the U~J:iversity accountable and succltleded in withholding her diplomafllr a year. From these cases we see that pla- giarism could be a costly academic offense. It seems that students. who pla- giarize focus on the slhort- term benefits without considering the long nm costs to themse]v-es or so- ciety. By cutting corners, students deprive themselves of d:.eveloping their own skills for the future. Pla- giarizing in college can lea:d to poor performance in futare JlUrsuits such as graduate schcol and job assignments. AnotheJ: potential cost is in the ····''\\\·'·'··;-· •· · \'\ · - - · · nient, then. society's g9od will, honesty, sense students are more likely to cheat in of civic duty and good citizenship. order to get ahead. But if they ~p­ For example, voluntary income tax pear overly harsh or arbitrary to stu- compliance results from an dents, then thpse who are h()tlest individual 's.high sense of civk re- may be tempted to plagiarize .. This sponsibility. Slemrod argues that is similar to the 'Nanrty tax' poli- IRS enforcement policies mustbal- cies that the IRS used to enforce. ance authority and leniency in or- An;y household that pajd a h()use- der to maintain a high compliance keeper, babysitteror other domes .. rate. Similarly~ a college commu- tic services for more than5() hours nity can ha:ve a supply of \honest a qJiarter was required to pay so- students,\ those who do not pla- cial s~urity and other tax.es. Fil· giarize or cheat. More effective ing h<>usehold employment taxes teaching systems and more trust for an occasional babysitter or between peers and professors re- Sn<>w-shoveler seems ridiculous.; sults if there are many honest stu- many otherwise honest taxpayers dents within a college community. were in violation of this law. If As with IRS policy, in order for schools make ridiculous policies honesty to :Prevail, plagiarism poli- regarding plagiarism then students cies must be clearly defined and wiH beless likely to comply. In es- enforced. At the same sence, when citizens their taxes and minimize avoidance then gov- ernment is more efficient. Just as if students do their assignments le- gitimately, then educational qual- ity will increase, benefiting society and individuals. A system of peer evaluations can be one way for deterring pla- giarizers sin~e being caught by fel- low students cart be embarrassing. Plagiarism policies will be most ef- fective at schools where deterrence methods are viewed as reasonable and consistently applied. Colleges should make their communities in- creasingly aware of their policies in addition to information about how they are applied. Statistics such as the numbers and types of cases and penalties applied could be effective, just as taxpayers react to information about the frequency and the out- come of audits. Cheating can be deterred: for example, Alison Schneider of The Chronicle on Higher Education reports that one Oregon State Professor helped fight plagiarism by simple methods such as eye contact, walking around the room, changing test formats and versions. He found that, \In classes, where professors made it a priority to stamp out cheating, it didn't happen. When it was taken more lightly, it occurred more liberally.\ -Robyn M. Polansky Class of 2000 ''One China'' Not in U.S. Interests by MichaelS. McGuire Copy Editor On Monday, February 21; the Communist government of the People's Republic of China re- leased an 11,000-word statement condemning the democratic gov- ernment ofTaiwan fo-r b:teaking off negotiations aimed at the reunifi- cation of the two states .. China. re\ jects Taiwan?s insistence that the negotiations be conducted on a \state to state\ basis, while Tai- wan officially supp arts ·a \One China\ policy, but only at some China does not have the military might to invade and tak.-e over Tai- wan, nor would it pose much of challenge to the techn()logically superior United States should such a confrontationpresent itself. They do admit, however-, that China is improving its navy amd building up its ballistic and cruise missiles. China maintains th-at it would al- low for two separate styles of gov- ernment: OneforComnmmist China and another for the isbnd ofTai- wan. It has even said tJiat it would allow for more autonoltly in Taiwan than there is in Hong Kong. The fact remains, however, that the Tai- past. The n~tion' s refusal to allow for the free expression of ideas and religions is even worse than that which prompted thirteen indepen- dent~minded colonies to break away from: the British Empire 224 years ago. TheChinese military im- prisons and tortures dissidents, and the government claims that such actions are private and that foreign governments have no right to interfere_ It would be impossible for the United States or any other member of the global community to seek a massive change in the behavior and practices of the world's strongest . ; . point in the distant future when it foresees the larger nation becoming a democ- racy. The United States of- ficially supports a \One China\ policy as well, how- ever it is also dedicated to protecting Taiwan frornnrili- tary threats, yet another point of contention with the \People's\ Republic. In 1996, prior to Taiwan's first . . , f'The Taiwan that rvf;1 kli'ow tqday ·. ifasfourtdf3d/as a 'refifge·to wkich:the · . --.. . demqorati~ Chtn~s&fle4Whe,~ ·. ·_Communists' took otJ~r.iiheir:.fuime.- - ltitul. Should mai~lan1d Chi~a absorb ·_; the,~iitati island/·it Wp~td)~:~:ilefea~·- -· and largest Communist na- tion. The current trend to- wards a cultural infusion of new ideas through free trade, which will hopefully culminate with the inclu- sion ofChina in the World Trade Organization, is the best possible way of achieving the long-term goal of a modern, demo- cratic nation where the free · lO.r:~!l ~~i,9h.tlt¢ .Un!te~Jit.ates· was ·_ fau7zil~.d,ort.~fre_~4qi!f:df/religiQn,'\ . :, speec~a~~--~-~---- ~r~~~ion: '\ :: .. ,· < direct democratic elections, China launched missil~ near the island as a warning, :signaling its. disapproval of soon to be elected Taiwanese President Lee Tung- hui. It was also ftttstrated by ·Taiwan's refusal to pay the cus- tomary \homage\ to China. As a result, the United States sent two aircraft carriers into the region. According to The New York times, many believe that ' '- .. '. wan that we kno·w today was founded as a refuge to which the democratic Chinese fled when Communists took o-ver their home- land. Should mainlamd China ab- sorb the small island,. it would be a defeat for all whicl1 the United States was ~ounded ()n: freedom of religion, speech and e::xpression. China • s ruling pa3'\y is blinded by outdated ideas -w 11ose time has ex.pression of ideas is em- braced. Regardless of when, or if, the Chinese people are ever truly lib- erated from their oppressive gov- ernment, the United States must do all that it can, ideally diplomatically but rnilitrrily if necessary, to ensure that Taiwan remains one of the great stories of democratic inde- pendence of the Twentieth Century and beyond. O!n:n.c.nr.b-.einsis The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper http://concordy.uDion.edu Brooke M. Barylick- David C. Brooks, Jr. EDITORS-IN-CHIEF Jessica Zuehlke NEWS EDITOR Katrina Tent()r OPINIONS EDITOR Brian Terlinsky Rachel Bukowski SPORTS EDITORS Lori Greene Kimberly Rohback A&EED!TORS Kaelyn South PROMOTIONAL MANAGER Sll)an Miller Aaron Seliger PHOTO EDITORS Jaime Chandler EXECUTIVE EDITOR Jason Put<>rti WEBMAST'ER Eugene Schultz FEATURES EDITOR Sloan Miller SCIENCE & TECH EDITOR Neil Routman WORLD NEWS EDITOR Michael S. McGuire COPY EDITOR Danielle Devine Amanda Jackson AD VERTJSEMENT COORDINATORS Erika Mancini EDITORIAL CARTOONIST Scott Scllllion FACULTY ADVISOR · PHOTOGRAPHERS: Calvert Crary, Elizabeth Daigle, Megann Denefrio, Kati~ Hais; Katie James, Dave Meguerdichian. STAFF.~ Matt Aronowit~, Steve Ayers, Jessica Brearto11, Beth Brogan, Gina Campa11ella, Claire CaBal, Michaela Cautela, Dan Cent!, Meriditll Chace, Philip Cho, Latun Cotten, J.im DeWan, Kristina Dorne, Mary Feltiln, Frank Filiciottc, Fran'k Flaherty, Stephen Flaherty, Peter Flynn, ·B:annah Gaw, Matt Gendron, David Gruner, Deric Harrington, Brian Kern, Cory Kiefer, Dan Kirslt, Allyson Kohlmann, Alexandra Lohse, Jess MiiJer; Stepllen Nemetlt, Fahim Noor, Hillary Olk, Frank .Rossi, Mark Shemel, Jeff Silver, Jessisca Stephens, Lee Stevens, Sa-11skriti Thakur, · Cllarles Tutlaill, Vinny Voletl, Kristen Zado111'ian.

' Page 8 · February 24, 2000 • arnmorhien!Shs . . . . . . .. OP /ED · •·· .• E ..•. y: .. ·.r·:~~-, ·:fr-····· i·t~;s.} ,,·:·;·,:;c.·~rrtJli!ii~'i!~\:tJ~Jfil~fi'illJJ~~f.~::·N~Jlii;'l;tt~'··~·:£~:rS,k;:~Ji~ 1 ~f·tl;,·~1 Junior Class Vice Presidential/Treasurer Candidate Nemo Bolin-Gamsby Hi. For those of you who might not know me, my name is Nemo, and I'm running for Junior class representative. This is truly'a cru~ cial period in Union's history. It has seemed this year that we have been flooded by all kinds of new pro- posals from the administration try- ing to alter our lives here at Union. Now some of these proposals are good, others are not,. but one thing remains ... we need students who will speak up and make their voices heard. The Student Forum repre- sents the true voice of the Union College student body. As we end our Junior year,. we will need to make decisions which will greatly effect our last year here at Union. I feel that I can bring a new, fresh perspective to the Student Forum. lamresponsibJe.,dedicated, and will work hard to see that all the needs of our class are met in the C()ming tenn. This Friday, vote for the fresh choice. VoteforNEMO. A lv1~Fr0111.1 Safe- Sp(i(.Ce/ What you can do to help protect yourself from rape and sexualassanlt: Tip#l: BE AWARE a .. Do NOT leave a drink {alcoholic or not) unattended, and do NOT =accept drinks from someone you d()n't know. b.. WATCH as your drink is being prepared. c .. Do NOT take a drink of substance~ someone offers you if you don't =know what it is. If you need help, call the Safe Space beeper: 1-800-283-2255 Pin: 11349 The Personqfs! Back by popular demand, the Coucordiem i.1 Personal Section \\ i!J be feuturi ng I' 0 lJ R personal ads. · Submitting isji·ee,just email: concordy(a:vu.union.edu Dave- Campus Community~ Alibab•, Good thin~ it wasn ,t an IQ test! Must recJcle! Push, Push, Push! Woul<iyouplease contain yotu Beware Eugene, lobster\ . self! 'ioa were just a tad to skinned leper. . excited about basehaH season Love, Us ,-MSM KT, YMTL . ' Stop infiltrating the campus H. ) . ey ... ,: with your tentorkian hordes!!! .-MSM ·'ME .Eugene- Tigger, Don't worry- we won. 't touch .. Happy Birthday! l ! you! Love always, ·The Concordy .Editors Pooh, Piglet~ and Eeyore .. DCB, CK, TR, MT, BC~ .1W & AA, • England, here we come! Love, Rachel Joe- Will youcomevisitus sometime soon? How about tonight?;) Rich girls Good luck at your interview. Knock 'em dead. Use Scope. -EIC Fed- Whats the deal with The Mother? Does she still want my number or what? Rout -KT EQW, You ·mcked this weekend! I am sojpr()ud of you! Let's hope f()t\ a trip to At1anta. -BMB Joe- l love ytOu ty:ay more than Chelsea does! Love, ·the Time Keeper To tlte 'Track Team; ·. Go()d luck at states! Lov~,. .,a BI(}- .track fan K&K ' Hoclceygame on Friday night, eh? ~K ;) Send us yqtlr P~f!~onal Ads! . They are FREE.··and:~. FUNI We wont yo1.1r inputl' No matter who you are calling in the world, effective March 3rd you will have to dial a ''3'' to get on outside tinel

Advertis~ments CivU Engineering Seminar . David Harrington NYSD of Environmental Conservation Blowing The Environmental Whistle Friday, February 25, 2000 12:15 .. 1:25PM Butterfield 204 Pizza, Soda. and Wings at Noon Visit CE Seminar on WWW at http:/ {www.union.edu/PlJBLICfCERDEPT /semmar;btm ,...,a l~-) Union's Own . .-·· .. -~: Dutch . Pipers Garnet Mi f[i- armt~:lll'm.ensis • Februar . 24, 2000. • Pa e 9 Flights for Airtech \ Mexico/Caribean or Central America $229 Round- Trip Europe $169 One-Way Other Worldwide destinations CH.EAP! ONLY TERRORISTS GET YOU THERE CHEAPER! Book tickets on\\>line at www.airtech.com or 212-219-7000 R¢smns¢. UeaJ~Un~ .2.'2:5: Deutsche Bank ~ lnte.rn:ational lJJ.vestrnent Banking 2-'Z:S: NxViewv Technologies - Softvva.re Engineers 2/ZS: Advaneed i:01aging. [Roe.- EE &. ME posi1.ions 3/3: Albany J.VI.olecular N,esearoeb; :l.nc:.- Research Chen:a.is1 3/31: Indcpen.:le:n• Educad:onal Services- Private Scho<>l ·1ea.::.hing 3/110: lVJ.af:benaadca, Inc - Stat:istical Analysi:s; Program1T1ers 3;/:tO: .~otorola- various Technical positions . 3/10: J.BI.V.I..., P<.:>ugh.keepsie- So:f'h>vare &. Hardvvare Engineers 3/'17: \l:'hc 'Field Scb(lool- -.'ea.ching po,.;ition.,; ' ·~ ~)( ·- . :::#=== Check ou1: our website; ...,.,..,_,-w_union-cdu./ca\·cc.-/CDC select: S~ude;:rt Sc1-vicas. Spec~ca/lySs~u•~ors. RecruitZI'Ig : In./brrna~wn~ then On-Cu:rnpus or Res&~rne Referral f'vr c~mptc.tc dcscraptions: and a.·equ.irements. Saturday, 5pm Nott Memorial

The Dire Search for Controversy The Asian Per.suasion by Deric Harrington Staff Writter Ok, I should clear \IP a bit of my own controversy. I forgot to ~m in an article last week, so an old article from earlier this term ran. Think of it as a \best of' column, because ,it was one of my personal favorites anyways, so if you had a problem with it, my apologies ... you ungrateful bastard. So, as everyone might expect, I've been running around in my leopard skin underwear again ... at least, 1 thought it was just under- wear. .. that is, until it shredded up \Mr. Happy.\ sniffle ... I shall never be the same. l went to Simpatico this past weekend, and i have to say that I really enjoyed it, although the di- rector told me that there would be live horses in the show, and no such thing happened when I went. Just another example of people lying, cheating, and stealing their way to the top. Actually, he never did tell me that, and the show was great from top to bottom. l really suggest going to watch theater on this campus of any kind, whether it be a department show_ (Love's Fire ... it opens tonight), or a Mountebanks sponcered project (Idol Minds), 99% of the time, you're going to getyourmoney's worth ... hell, mostofthe shows on this campus are free, which is good considering how everyone pays over 45,000 dollars a year to go here, and they can't even fix the damn vending machine ... sorry, I guess I've been listening to every- one else complain for so long, I kind of got wrapped up in that one. Speaking about Albany, I had a chance to go see the best band in Albany, the Clay People this past weekend. From top to bottom, the show was amazing, with Gargantua Soul, and Dying Breed opening. Any of these three bands are worth checking out by them,.. selves, but the show with all three by Philip Cho Staff Writer of them was simply amazing. I As I write this article today, l would not be surprised to see all cannot help but realize that s(')me- three of them show up on the thing has changed. The world Edgefest this year (for those of . seems unchanged as always, but I you that either don't listen to the feel different. Edge, or are so sheltered here that There issomething about me that tlley don't realize things actually . once was but is no more. Incotn~ happen away from this campus, pleteness is gone, and I suddenly the Edgefest is a rock show that is find myself at peace. It is illterest- sponcered by the local station the · ing that amidst the storm, there is Edge. Last year, it was headlined : quiet. I feel like a storm has ju:st by Rob Zombie) gone by my very soul, and all of a (Deric takes a brief moment to . sudden it is quiet. It's an odd feel- himself, to wonder if anyone 0:1,1 ing really. this campus knows that I'm mak- Odd but safe. As I step out into ing horrible stereotypes on every- reality, I fmd that what I had al~ one on this campus. Wait, this is · ways worried about so much is the time where someone writes · · nothing but fear of the unknown. into the opinions column and talks The fear of stepping into a situa- about how if I keep writing like tion that I have not prepared for. this, then it's the impression that But nothing really prepares you for everyone is going to g;et. While this step I guess. It doesn't matter we all know (wink, wink) that this how smart you are, or how much campus is very diverse .. Why,just moneyyouhave. These do not pre- yesterday, I talked to someone all . pare you for the trek that is to be the way fwm Connecticut.) · faced. I am of course talking about How all the compater nerds out graduating college, and leaving the there can make fun of AOL, and safety net that held us from falling still look at DailyJolt is beyond into the real world. After school, me. For your viewing pleasure, a studying is no more. When in high sample of what is on dailyjolt school I couldn't wait to stop (rated G for your viewing plea- studying and begin working. I was sure) literally dragged screaming into Person a: I ordered from college by my coat tails. I wanted Howler's, and the gosh darn towork.,Iwasn'tinterestedingo- motherfather didn't send me my ing to school, but I did so anyway bar-b-q sauce. I'm mildly upset, because that is what was expected and thinking of pursuing violent after high school. College was the action against said offender. natural step. Person b: shut the front door All I was interested in was work- you motherfather. Person a: no, go away. See the kind of wonderful things you can discuss? makes me think of when I was but a wee lad ... wait, no. Forget it. Judging by the level of test- osterone in my body, either I need to take less steroids, or I need an appendectamy. either way, it's not good. Byebye. ing and making money. But what I realize now is that all that I know is studying. I've never held a job in my life. I've always been pro- vided for by my family, and things were there when I needed or wanted them. The only job l had was studying. And I felt content with it subconsciously, although I have always had a love hate rela- tionship with studying. Within my personality, studying isn 'ta big deal. I'm happiest when I'm singing and acting. I love pho- tography. I like the freedom that surfing brings to my soul. 1 like the adrenaline rush that tennis brings into my vems. I occasionally like to play golf with my dad from time to time. Don;tget me wrong though. llove discussing politics, and I love to eugage in interesting discussions about anything. But, I don't take studying serious enough. I find that etudying is just part of thejob requirementthati am to fulfill. Es- sentially, studyingbasbecomemy job. I enjoy learning from tirnet{) time, but studying is .nothing I got the bang of. 1 rarely study. This is a fact. I am a good student, GUid I do the work. But, I j'u.st don't study. I go to class, take good note~, write papers, take the e:x- ams; . .an,d I manage to do okay. i haven't really sat and just studi~d for a long time. Maybe l've been lucky. But, now that I am gradu- ating, I feel that I have bee!) inad- equate for what is out there. I want to continue with what I have been doingfor almost all my life. I want to continue the occupation of studying. It's a pain at times, but I've gotten so used to it. It is apparent that I have a duel relationship with studying. It is something that I hope I can get a grasp of. I don't have much time left to study. If things do go as planned and I do end up in law school someday, that is only three more years of studying. I've done my time, and parole is almost up. But I don't know ifl can handle parole. I've learned so much in school, and I've gotten so used to how things work. When I get out there, I have to relearn the mles of the outside. The cutthroat place they call the job market. I don;t really know what is out there for me. I have possibilities, but they are only possibilities. What I am currently considering is the Peace Corps, teaching En- glish in Korea. or working in the states. Possibilities are endless. It is kind of scary, but a.t the same time exciting. As stress builds up, I re- alize that things are so calm. I ain beaded to a major change in my . life. I will have to take what I have now andtry to apply itto the world of work. I hope that college has prepared me for what is out there. I know th;;tt if I had gone out for a job after high school that many options would not be out there. I realize the importance of edu- cation. It has shaped my m,ind :in ways that I have never thought of before. But yet, I sometimes grow tired of learning. I feel that it sometimes. stifles my life. Things that I want to do have to be put in the backbumer, while I attend to what is called for by my educators. But at the same time, education has taught rrte discipline. It has also taught me that I learn better under positive pressure put on me, as op- posed to negative criticism to get me motivated. I guess this is true for people in most part, but I find that I literally shut down when all I here is criti- cism. I no longer want to do the work I am required to do. This is smnething that must be fixed, and I hope I can do so in the future. r realized this in most part during my thesis work. It's a whole lot of pressure, and I try my best, but as is given in every situation, the time and effort I put into it is thrown out as gar- bage. Differing opinions will do that. But enough of this can bring me over the edge, and I just want to give up. Pressure is what brings storms into my iife. But I fmd that the storm brings peace in the end, and that although the light in the end of the tunnel seems far, that there is an end. The end for me. is spring term. l hope to catch up on down time that I need so desperately. Winter term. has been hell for me, in most part because of my thesis. It hovers over me like death. But I know that I will make it. I always have_ The peace in th~ storm will be reached. But before that time comes, 1 will have to take it like a man and hope that I survive. Graduating i*l a great feeling. Let us just hop.e that I make it until then. Complaints for a Cause by Katrina Tentor Opinions Editor Okay- so here it goes. I arn writ- ing this article to fill space. Actu- ally, I do have something worth- while to say, I just can't think of anything at the moment Do you know what has been bothering me in these last couple of weeks on campus? The snow. Now, don't get me wrong~ I love snow. I love skiing. I love snow- ball fights. What I don't like is how it seems to be an enormouse chal- lenge for the school mantainence department to clear the wa1kways. On Friday, I was very excited about the white out conditions. It wasn't until I walked out of my dorm in ankle deep snow that I changed my mind. I wish that I had snow shoes to trudge all the way across campus to my first class, or cross country sk.is so I could glide by all the people that are slipping and sliding. It's 9:40AM and I can'tget out of :mY dorm to get to the campus certter. Once I get all th.e way there; theJe is that chain act()SS the dead pine trees that say ycm have to go all the way around to the side entrance. Can someone please explain to me the reasoning about the front doors? It hasn't been snowing, sleeting, or raining for three days, and we still have to go around. Now you can go through the front door if you go through the two center trees, not the sides_ N(), no, those are blocked off. I dunn(), maybe I'm stupid, but I just db11't get it. So, I get around to the side, jllst to slip and fall on my face when I get through the door. The long 1me in Dutch gets longer by the minwte, and all I want is. my cold )lot chocolate. Hmm, hmm, good. So, it seems that I have filled tlJ.is space, and I have done my job. Thank you. It's okay ifyou -didn,t read this, I understand. I am sim- ply writing this complaint t() h~lp out my editors. Eugene had origi~ n~lly filled this space with. some asinine graphic that was not accpetable for his section. F tbl lai pc w Y1 th Ol w y w nl pi VI ti aJ 1 0 \I u b a t

t p I~ .e >t F~atures 24, 2000 · Page 11 Squirrel City The Grandness of Office Space by Brian Kern Staff Writer Hello, faithful tt::aders. For tho~e of you who read my article last week, you are all probably pondering tlte same question. Wllere have all the squirrels gone 'l You might not have even noticed: their slow disappearance througl1- out the faH. After all many ofyo;u were probab'ly not in the New York State Ca,pital Region Iike I was. Thereflne you would have no idea when the squirrels disap- peared or where they h<rv:e gone, wliich is why I'm writing this at· tide (that and to make you laugl1} So anyway, when you read th..ls article, assutning you read it on the Thursday the Concordy comes out, it will have been about two we-eks since I went away for a Sat- urday. Where did I go, you surely must be wondering, as that would be tl:le answer to the questionposed aHhe beginning of the article. All right I '11 tell you. 1 went to the City. Now, most of you know exactly what I :mean. Only one city can s.implybe referred to as \the City,\ ~n:d I'm not talking about Boston. I will adnrit, Boston is very nice :and I usually try to go when the opportunity comes up. However, Boston is not «fue City.\ Wh:en S()meone says they went to \tile City\ it can only mean one place: New York City. All right, so now you kn()W where the squirrels have g()ne. 1bey 're in New York City. And I <J:cm't mean they're all over the place in New York City, they're just in one small location. I guess I could try and withhold that fnm you as well but there;s really no P'Oint. The. place they're all hid- ing out in is Battery Park. Otvi- ()US~Y I know this because I was jllst in New York City less th.an two weeks ~go. However, notic- rng that there are a lot of _squirrels arotu1d is not a normal observation one makes when in the City. I noticed this only because I 1iap- pened to be sitting in Battery :Park waiting for a friend to mal<e a phone call to a museum we wanted to see. So there I was, freezing, sitting \On a park bench waiting to flnd out how late the museum was open. As I was sitting. there I hap})en to notice asquinel. How wonderful, I thought Then I noticed (1 per- son walking a dog, only it seemed m01e like the dog was walking; the person. I couldn't understand what had grasped the attenticn of the dog and was causing it to strain against its leash. I turned around and there I saw it. An entire park just covered in :squirrels. Now, they weren•tcompletely covering the place, but there were a lot of . them They wer-e on the benches, on the walkwayo:s, hanging from the trees, lying in the streets. Needless to say I was a little .sur- prised, but on thee s[lme hand I felt · my question had been answered. by lhtn Centi .. Stll{f Writer After seeing the first featme film effort of tile undeniably talented Mike Judge, it was doubtful that he was capable ef anything that would transcend the hilarious crudeness of his Beavis and Butthead chaFa~ters. They were clever in a ·!,atllroom humor type of way, .and allowed Judge to <lis- play his pt()ficiency in parodying I mean~ I'm mre everyone. else on campus had been wondering where atl the SCJuirrels had gone. And if you weren't thinking that, well then maybe you: should have been. . bully like dim-witted hard wck fa:ns. Judge, evidencing his abil- i(y, coeFced us into rooting for ,Beavis and Bu:tthead, despite their many undesuab le qualities. :So how could I tell that these were the ·same squirrel's as those from Union CoJlege? Well, I am of course tlte College's f:trst and fotemost squirrel expert, in c;ase you didn't already know that (by the way, ifUnion does have a · squirrel expert I defer my \first and foremosf' status to that per- son). So I was watching the squir- rels in the City and cou'ldn't help noticing the striking similarities between them and the squirrels of Union Collegoe. Like those of Union, these particular wild crea- tures also seem to enjoy cheating death The stept in the walkways, hung precariomsly in the trees, and . ran irt front of1Jotentially danger• :: Butup untilth.atpoint, Judge had never tackled anything e:xcept the animated t:nedi:um and his two most famous cre!;l1i<Jns. Fortunately in his latest project, Jud,ge has taken a radical step in a completely dif- ferent directi!ln. Tackling the , h<JpelessnessC>f working within the of · ous animals sl!ch as dogs. which I amsure has caused torrents So not only were these squirrels of tears ftomycm, my faithfulread- gutsy, but very wild as welL I ers, I am not going to be here next don't mean wild as in not domes- . term to write you witty .(well, tkated, I mea11 wild as in very un- • sometimes witty) anecdotes about ruly and rambunctious. As my U1Y college ex.perience thus far. friend and I were sitting on the . Sigh, bench, trying to figure out where Shall we 'lla:ve a moment of si- we wanted to go, seeing as how lence ......... ? the museum was closing too early 1 will be on my term abroad from for us to get tihere, we were toss- Union, my experience to see the ing some bits. of pretzel to a pi- world, to travel afar, meet strange geon. Of course upon doing so . animals, eat strange foods. My there was an entire flock of birds term is going; to take me to far on the groun.d and in the air around away, exotic places us. This had lllO affect on the squir- like ... Massaclmsetts. (Technically, rels. this tenn fulfills my foreign Ian- They too w;anted the pretzel and guage requirement, and I am not were more t!J.an willing to take a counting myself too lucky that I few risks to get it. I even saw a didn't have tD learn a foreign Jan- squirrel fighting a bird for a huge . g;uage, becau:se ... well, have you chunk of the pretzel. Well, I was ever heard people from Boston quite impressed by all of this, and s·peak?) after hitting the person I was with That's righ,t 1 I am going on the for having attracted so tnany birds, · Marine Studies term abroad, which I came to the conclusion that these takes me to Woods Hole, MA, as sq_uirr(,?,ls mu.st corn~ from Union well as Bennuda and Newfound- College. land. Which basically means that So there you have it. You've while y<Ju are all here in all been wondering where the ·Schenectady, drinking Beast and squirrels were and now you know. suffedng Calculus, I will be snor- I'm not saring all the squirrels keling in the crystal clear waters went to New York City. ofBenrtuda- or perhaps riding my In fact, I have seen the occa,.. mQped on -the flour-white sand siortal squirrrel even in the past or .. J think that is enough.. I am week, despite the snow. Still, most dro,oling on my computer just of the squirrels of Union College 'thinking ~b!lut it. have definitely gone down to the This article is not intended to City. As forthoseofyou vvhomiss make you jealous (although if you the squirreLs, well, don't worry, are, it is entirely understandable, they'll be b:ack soon enough, and if you p\lt five dollars in my : mailbox by the end of the term, I will bring you back some sand), . hut is more of a tribute to all those who applied for terms abroad, and . did not get itt I can relate. I was there. And frankly, 1 think some of you have a real cause to ·be an- gry, Union has a policy that only fif- teen studellts per year can go on no11-Uttio11 terms abroad. This can be very deceiving, because what they really mean is that only fif- teen tertn.S at Union can ~o unpaid chine, Office Space is QUe of the cleverest, wittiest, and most rel- evant films to come along in quite some time .. It was largely ignored when was released last year in the theatres, but has found new life on video, and has developed a fairly strong cult foHowing. It's not too difficult to understand why. Office Spa,ce follows the life of the likeable Peter Gibbons (Ron Livingston), as he descends into a depression resulting from the in- tolerably mundane corporate life he leads. Eventually, he seeks the help of an \occupational hypnotherapist\ to psychologi- cally -relieve him of his feelings. The idea backfires, and Peter de- velops an staunch indifference to- wards his job and his life thus far. This leads to some genuinely funny situations, including the de- cision of Peter's superiors to pro- mote him. Office Space is rarely without a clever moment, and of students or not. For example: if a student were to take a non-Union term abroad that took up the entire year (this is, assuming that this person actu- ally got released by Union to do this, which, as it stands, is highly unlikely) then that would cost, in effect, three terms, and would bring the total number of terms available down to twelve. Who set up this namher? And why is it so low? Granted, Union offers a large multitude of choices in where to go on a term abroad. \I will be on my term abroadfrom Union.\ In theory, everyone should be able to :find someplace that they want that we offer here. But that isn't always the case. What about the field hockey player who desper- ately wants to go to England (of- fered in the fall), but doesn't be- lkve that she should have to lose an entire season be~ause of it'? What about the student who wants to do a tenn in Ireland be- cause that is where his family is from, but Union doesn't offer a term in Ireland? It is for these people that the non-Union tertns abroad were cre- ated. However, let's say that out of a student populatidi1 of 2000,. 1200 students are eligible for terms abroad (minus the freshman and an estimated 300 whose grades are n{)t high enough), That means that 0.0125% of the Union population can go on a non-Union term time and care into developing the film, but where Office Space re- ally shines is in its supporting cast ofcharacters. The most ingellious of which is Bill Lumberg ~Gary Cole}, Peter's boss and unofficial enemy who represents the dehu- manization that corporate employ- ment unfortunately helps bring about. L umberg is :also a good example of the subtlety the film adopts, re~ fusing to become obnoxious. like so: many other recent comedies, It's intelligent in it's craftsmanship from beginning to end, carefully mocking real life. The most grim aspect of OfJice Spaee however, is the propheti<: quality holds, warning us to spend our careers doing things we enjoy rather than ones that pay well It's a valuable message, but one that many people will choose to ignore. Mike Judge knew it, and at this point in time he's making movies I personally felt the effects Gfthis policy, last year, when I was a freshman and I applied to g() on a non-Union tenn abroad that would have taken place this winter. It was similar to the Marine Studies term, but six wee:ks of the term were spent on a boat studying the ~cean­ ography of the Caribbean, This drastically differed from the Union term that spent very little time on a boat, and so I applied. I got re- jected; I was told that the reason for my rejection had little t<J do with my credentials, but every- thing to do with the fact that I was a freshman. On one hand.,. I can understand this. Ifl were a senior, and I got rejected from a term abroad because a freshman got accepted, I would be extremely angry. On tl1e other hand, tlne year that I would be going wmtldhave been my sophomore year, nClt my freshman year, and as I am gning on a term abroad this year anyway, I don't exactly see what the dif- ference is, The only thing that I can think of is money, and our obsessiGn and preoccupation with hoarding it. When you go on a non~ Union term abroad, you technically withdraw fr()m the school for a term, and do not pay tuiition. F\Or every full-tuition-paying student; per term, it comes out to be roughly $10,000. That is $150,000 that the scho<ll loses each year from students w11() go on n<Jn-Union terms abroad. (Most likely less, however, since not all students are paying full tllition). Can you put a price ()I! the ex- perience that a student -.;vill have in a foreign country? I know {)fa few students just this term, all of whom were very quali- fied and detetmined to g<J -on their non-Union terms abroad, who got rejected. Is it fair to force them into the mold of Union's terms abroad because of the money that will be l()st? I think not. Cre 1L,l- tials should speak for themselves.

Page 12 Third Annual Kappa Alpha Art Show by Kimberly Rohback A&E Editor Last Friday marked ·the ·third annual Kappa Alpha Art Show. On February 18, around 6:00PM, a crowd of art browsers found their way to McKean House de'\' spite the blizzard. The show was scheduled to begin at 8:00, but the team of students in charge of hanging the works, including Josie Gluck, Will Marshall, and Alec Knurr, did not complete the assembly until9:00. Brooke Alkon headed the commission on \Tak- ing Down Composites,\ and work- ing under her was April Tucker, who provided motivation for the group to complete the effort. Thanks to the diligence of Seth Madison the crowd enjoyed six varieties ·of cheese: Colby Jack, Jack, Colby, Chedtla.r, Pepper Jack, and Munster. As the crowd dined on the cheese, they made their way through the displa)'. Josie Gluck recruited a variety of artists for the occasion from every corner of the campus. Robbie Olazagasti submitted paintings, prints, and photopaphy. The sub- jects of these works ranged over an eclectic spectrum. Brev Creech submitted two metal sculptures. One was a wall-hanging and the other atablepiece. Bill Servant also entered sculptures-One was a metal wall piece and the other two were table pieces created from metal and plaster. Anna Sherwoo<i sabmitted a va- riety of photogra.phs,, mostly por- trait wmk Dave Shaughnessy sub- mitted one metal floor sculpture. Crossings Courtesy ofthe Union College Department of Performing Arts The multi-ethnic jazz quartet, Crossings, performs at -8 PM on Friday, February 25, in the Nott Memorial. Crossings, led by Amy Platt and powered by the percus- sion of Randy Crafton, combines the finest European classical tra- dition with meditative Indian im- provisations, driving African rhythms. Middle Eastern dance melodies and swinging American blues. The members- Platt, winds; Crafton, percussion; Fernando Hernandez-Moms, keyboards; and Emmanuel Mann, bass- are each highly skilled perfom1ers and composers. Together, as Cross- ings, they sample from traditional and contemporary music, and stretch the improvisational space. As Platt describes the group, \CrossingsolTers a free-wheeling, smoldering sound that is spiced with humor, i1resistible groove and lyric grace.\ The performaticeby Crossingsis the last concert of Union's highly successful Winter2<l00 Concert Se- ries, \Bridges.\ The concert is free to the Union community; a dona- tion of five dollaJ\s is suggested for the general public. Platt, a native of Clifton Park, graduated from the fuilliard School in New York City. As a composer and instrumentalist, she draws from the cultural dive-rsity ofNew Ydrk City where she now resides. Joined by ethnic perctLSsion powerhouse and Schenecta<ly 11ative Crofton, Crossingsis a world-class ensemble that creates a modem sound rooted in ancient tradition. Recent projects for Platt and Crafton include \Echoes from Within,\ a live CD for the CPW Spe- lunking Series, made on location 156-feet below the earth's surface in Howe Caven-;s, Howe Cave, NY. As a collaboration between Platt, Crafton and the Caverns, \Echoes from Within\ \V'a.S awarded the Bos- ton Globe's p1estigious \Critics Choice Award'~ for 1999. Artist Amy Platt Mindy Cohen contributed a se- ries of black and white photos, WhichGluck described as a ''beau- tiful light study.\ Collin Wells w:as.obliteratedfor the even.t and entertained the viewers with his sporadic danc- ing and ubiquitous screaming. Veronica Sack submitted a set of watercolors she had done for her class, \Illustrated Organisms.'' One of the paintillgs was a bird wing and the other two were of skulls. Colleen Reilly enteredamixture of drawings, paintings, and col- lages. She alsQ submitted .two works of alt:Imnus Shayne D. Aldridge, (unbekn0wnst to Mr. Aldridge). Mike Pingpank added his photography to the show, and Aaron Seliger submitted photos as well. Seliger's photos were, as described by Gluck, \examples of weird studies in light.\ Josie Gluck submitted three of her own monoprints, and one linocut. Ketmy Scott displayed his pho- tography. Absent from his collec~ tion was the infamous photo of a trash can with apiece of paper in it saying \Kenny Scott is dead.\ \All I can do is laugh,\ said Gluck, re~ garding this Scott originaL Matt Carter submitted some work in graphic design, including com- puter generatedpictures, and com- puter manipulated black and white photos. Brooke Alkon wandered throughout the show with a needle from an evergreen, capped by a piece of chewed Cinna-burst gum; sharing her \transitive art.\ Suki Carolan, formerly Suki .Harata (newly wed to recent graduate David Scoobie Carolan), donated amural that stretched down theh~ll the length ofthe stairs. Doug Seder submitted some of his. photogra- phy, as did others. This was the third year that the Kappa Alpha Literary Society has held a successful art show. 'The group wouldlike to thank all ofthe individuals who submitted their work and helped rnake the event possible, and to those who can).e and enjoyed their classmates \'r:e- ations. The Society looks forwllrd to the art show next year as a \go<ld time was had by all.\ This Saturday, Kappa Alpha will be hosting a festival of student mu- sic, featuring two student ba.nds, \Smiling Politely\ and ''Hopewell.\ The event promises to be a g()od time. Support student art and mu~ sic. All are welcome. Hanging Up Means Tissues by Jessica Brearton Staff Writer There are a few sure-fire things that will tnake me cry. One is the movie Beaches, and another is anything involving the death of a parent. ,Hanging Up is a film that combines aspects of both. Like Beaches, there is a strong focus on female characters and their re- . lationships. In Beaches the rela- tionship is the deep friendship between the volatile and head~ strong Cee Cee and the quiet and vulnerable HiHary. In Hanging Up the focus rests on three sisters, Georgia(Diane Keaton}, the old- est successful daughter, Eve (Meg Ryan), tlte middle child al- ways trying to please, and Maddie (Lisa Kudrow), the slightly flighty youngest daughter. Their fatheris played by Walter Matthau, and he is the center of their family life. Their mother, at the beginning of the film, he says is dead, but is corrected by Eve immediately - he hasn't died, · she just left him and her daugh- ters. This abandonment is cen- tral to both Eve and her father's lives. After a suicide attempt, his long-gone wife is the one he asks for, as he does when he lay dying years later. The film is largely about the loss of parents. From the beginning of the picture it is • evident that Eve's father is in many ways already gone, a victim of growing dementia and eccentrici- ties. It is difficult for her to hold conversations with him, especially during the later parts of the film, as his confusion grows to the point where he at one point doesn't rec- ognize her. Eve's mother is already gone as wen, having left Eve and her sisters years before. During a rare conversation with her mother after her departure, Eve's mother re- veals that motherhood didn't stick with her. That she hadhad children largely because it seemed like ev- eryone else was and wanted to, and therefore had made the assumption that it must be what she wanted as well, the falsity of which she dis- covered years, and three children, later~ This is evident :in the exchange where Eve, worried about her younger sisters impulsive decision to leave school, talks about her con- cerns while her mother looks an· noyed at even having to pretend to listen. The film is also about sisterhood, or at least attempts to comment on it. The extended focus on Eve alone, though, leads to her two sis- ters emerging as somewhat under- developed. Their lives are glimpsed. largely through snippets of conver- sation Eve has with them over cell phones, or in short meetings where the conversation never seems to run too deep. Eve is the one we fol- low, the one we understand. In tlte end of the film, when Ma.ddie comes up to Eve and points out that Eve isn't the only person who is experiencing the loss of !t par- ent, suddenly we in the audience realize that too. It is through Eve's eyes that we see their father iil his youth and his old age, so it is her loss that we sympathize with, for- getting that the other characters are suffering a loss as well. I couldn'thelp wishing that the mov- ies focus had been spread over the three sisters, because I found my- self wondering about Maddie and Georgia's lives beyond the small insights that were given th:rough Eve. After all, it is difficult to ex- plore the concept of sisterbo()d by focusing on just one sister. In the end, the film is neither a resounding success or failure. The actors are all wonderful, nattcrally bringing the material up a li()tch. The film is also very emoti.onally affecting around the death ()f the sister's father -I found myself crying several times. But between these emotional moments I can't help wishing that the relati<lnship between the emotionalmotnents I can'thelp wishing that the relation- ship between the sisters couli have been developed more, as vr\t:ll as the characters ofMaddie and Geor- gia. The movie has the feel of an okay tnovie that could have: been really gcod should the foclls had been different. Art Tl Mot and mgt SimJ ater\ opel was ()I} ] mar noo T old intl pas attl d ,YIJ ing Cw inv his cat twc Joe int< tha Ro ga b1< isf be by j v.. i.rl is lf Sl 0 ti F I< p ]' \ 8 I 1

Arts & Entertainment C!tlll'ttnrlriettJ.'Iht • February 24, 2000 • Page 13 Simpatico is a ,Success A&E'S ART OF THE by Ale::xandra Lohse Stllf]Writer This past weekend, the Mountebacks,. the Coffeehouse, and lEG spo11sored an. outstand- ing performance of Sam Shepard's Simpatico. Directed by senior the- ater -major Heath Heilpern, the play opened last Thu1isday night, and was followed u:p by aperf01;mance Dn Friday 11ight and two perfor- mances on Saturday, in the after- noon evening; The piay tells the story of two old friends wh() share a shady past in the world of horse breeding -a past, which th.reatens .to lash back at them at any moment Half of the dynamic duo~ Vinnie, h.asbeenhid- ing out, keeping a low profile in Cucamonga, California, after being involved ina very shady deal with his old friend, Carter. About to be caught in a ra..cetrack scheme, the two set up, and then blackmail the local racing C():tnmissioner, Simms, into silence. To add ins-ult to injury, Carter than ran off with Vinnie's wife, Rosie, taking his Buick into the bar- gain. Simms h.as now become a bloodstocK ag;ent in Kentucky, sat- isfied to let the past rest. Carter has become a wealthy man, successful by his devious and underhanded SGhemes in the horse racing busi- ness. He sends tnonthly checks to buy Vimrie's silence. Vinnie, however~ has grown tired.ofhis lonely fife and wants the past behind him,. so he de- cided to come clean about all the past deceptionsandlies. He sum- mons Carter to visit him under the guise of needing help with a woman who has had him arrested _., never been on stage before, the cast appeared to be weU-experi- ~;mced, knowing the movement of the stage in and out, vividly bringing Simpatico to life. The seven scenes. take place in sev- eral settings which were clearly defined through simple set changes and modest s.cenery. Notably, MartbaKronhobnand Greg Fox, playing the characters ~;f~,;.'~i;fjiiQrtilthtensity ·~1:t/i;ljJ?as,5i9il!/:: kept the . . ; .. i:tiltlie~.~e· ·ei:J,f:hralled ~. '' : ·.: -.,:_··=·'-'· ~ ... '?'- ':--->~- ~.· ~:' . :--·. . ','.' ·., ' :.·. -·-· . •·,' ; for trespassing, invasion of pri- vacy, an.d harassment. Atthe end of the play the roles have re- versed. Vinnie is free of the bur- den he has carried and Carter is heading for a disastrous. fall. The cast consisted of only six actors, but theses strong actors ca:rriedthe play .soundly. Each ac- tor gave· compelling perfor- ll).ailces that were convin.cirtg and ·realistic. Although most had of Cecilia and Carter, respectively, gave exceptional performances in Simpatico. Martha accurately portrayed to the audience the down-to-earth, gullible, character known as Cecilia. The twirling of her hair, the inquisitive looks given to Carter, and the nai'veper- sona Martha gives was perfect in achieving the essence of Cecilia. Greg precisely exposes the depths of the character known as Carter. Love-s Fire Opens Tonight by Lori Greene A&E Editm· Directed by Professor Kelli Wondra, Love 'sF ire opens tonight in the Yulma:n Theater. Love's Fire is a collection -of seven short plays inspired by seven Shakespearean sonnets. Each play is written by one of the best playwrights of our time, Eric Bogosian, William Jacks, Dan Keon, Alexis Wasserman, Katie Patrizio and Lori Greene. These actors have th.e difficult ta~k of playing mul- tiple roles in multiple plays, The character you see one actor play in one scene is very different from the character they portray in the next. The cast is :a refresh- ing mix of novice actors and ' ··This ·.is a play on the acting and the text. It ~pes not have to rely on fancy produc- tion elements. Jon Miller has de- signed lighting, which fills in the blanks between the set and the actors. In addition to the brilliant work done by these two men, they have working beneath them classes of stage design and light- ing design students who will be running the light board and the sound. Love's Fire proves that the themes that Finn, Joh11 Guare, Tony Kushner (Angels in America),. Marsha Nonn~n, Ntozake Sha11ge and Wendy Wasserstei:n. The project start~d as an idea Dramaturge Anne Cattaneo, . which focuses on the . acting and the text. \. of The Acting Company in Minneapolis, had to Send a different sonnet to each playwright and see what they come up with. The results are in- spiring. N() playwright knew what the others were doing. In the end, the plays ·c:ompliment each other remarkably well. With the words of the sonnet as the roots, the plays tak(! off and flourish into a variety of 1h.emes. At the core of each play seems to be the funda- mental values of relationships be- tween men and women, men and men and women and women. The plays defy the boundaries of tra- ditionall<rve a11dpush our concep- tions of relating to new extremes. Shakespeare wrote about in his sonnets are univer- sal and timeless. I doubt Shakespeare ever imag- ined that a century later, What makes Love 's Fire such an interesting; theatrical experience is the ensemble cast of actors that perform :ineachofthe seven plays. The acting company consists of Freshmen PraktikshaBorha, Jullian Newell-Little and Colleen Sen- tence, SoJ>homotes Liz Hallikan and Susan Drossnlan, Junior Col- leen Brown and Spencer Christie and Seni()rs Dan Danbusky, David those who have been seen on the Yulman stage many times. Only one of the seven plays includes the entire company. This is the General of Hot De- sire, It is one of the most pro- found pieces and was written as a collaborative effort between playwright John Guare and the original acting company. Within the seven plays lie music, dance, comedy and sensitivity. The dancing, in particular, has re- ceived careful atten.tion. The production has drafted a chore- ographer to help the cast learn the numbers and perfect them for show time. You may be falling off of your seat laughing in one scene and crying in the next. Charles Steckler, Union's resi- dent scertographer h.as designed the simple and functional set which remains virtually un- touched throughout the seven plays. This is a play that focuses we would be turning his sonnet into seven of the wittiest, most poignant plays writ- ten. The play is full of surprises and is what an evening at the the- ater is supposed to be about. Love's Fire runs tonight through Sunday and next week, Thursday through Sunday. It is well worth your time, for just about everyone is sure to associate and identify with characters and rela- tionships. The plays are sincere and hon ... est. This is a theatrical produc- tid'n that has been a term in the making. A lot of work has gone into the production both on and behind the stage. Support your peers and take the trip to the Yulmart. For those of you who do not know where the Yuhnan is, it is the big red building behind the arts building, next to Jackson's Gardens. Bring a friend, a parent, a pet... It is sure to be an experience you will not easily forget. He shows the audience the extent of' the emotional turmoil Carter is go- · · ingthrough, and how Carter's seedy past is beginning to unearth itself and engulf his sanity and well be- ing. Pattick Strong' sVinnie is intense and believable. Strong's command-: ing stage presence stayed consis- · tent throughout the show. David · Martin, who is known around the theater for his excellent physicality portrayed Simms with conviction and dedication, Simpatico was a fairly lengthy production, but its emotional inten- sity and passion kept the audience's attention. The audience, which was close to full during each perfor- mance, was eager to discover the scandal that Vinnie and Carter were hiding, and the audience was fer- vently waiting to see what was to become ofCarter and Vinnie's lives after their secret past had been ex- humed. Overall, Simpatico was an enjoyable play that stimulated feel- ing, suspense, and fascination in the minds and the hearts of the audi- ence. Congratulations to the cast and the crew for an outstanding piece of .. student theater. Simpatico has recently opened · nationwide as a major motion pic- ture starring Sharon Stone in the mle · of Rosie. I am curious to se.e how the movie compares to the live-stage version. WEEK Fire c;liyea~by KellV WOY\d.ret/ Opens Tonight 8:00 Yulman Theater $5.00 with a student ID Fresh Callfomia Rolls Veggie $4.49 Seafood $4.99 Now available at The ·skellar

News Analysis: Campaign Finance. Reform by Philip Cho Staj]Wrirer Campaign frna11ce reform legis- lation has been C~n issue of much heated debate in American politics. Campaign finance reform legisla- tion came in four intervals. The first was the Federal Election Cam,. paign Act of 1971, which was the first written to cemhtt corruption in elections. It also, put limits on how much a fetieral candidate could spend on all f()rms of media, and required complete and timely public reports ofwh0 was fmanc- ing the campaign of candidates, and how much these candidates were spending. I11FECA of1974, Congress made strenger measures by putting a $1 ,fJOO <:ontribution limits on individuals, and a $5, 000 limit on PACs, and patting spend- ing limits on campaignfmance leg- islation. The FECA of 1974 kept the dis- closure policy stated in the FECA of 1971. The FECA <Jf 197 4 also created the Federa.l Election Com- mittee to supervise these activities. However, the Supreme Court in Buckley v. V aliost11ted that much of the legislation co11tained in the FECA of 197 4 wa.s unconstitu- tional. As a result, the FECA of 1976 was written to reform cam- paign finance legislation to what the Supreme Court stated. The power of the FECA. of 197 4 was further weakened by the FECA of 1979. This lets loop holes to take place, where soft rn()ney could be given freely. 'This ha.s lead to much corruption, and in.ability for elec- tions to be conducted freely. Although problems of campaign finance legislation are clear and apparent, Congress has repeatedly been unable to pass new campaign finance legislation. As the primary elections take place, the candidates claim that they are willing to fight fornewreform. However, thisdis- cussion seems to devolve into ver-. reform legislation is such that it started with strict reform, and later lead to a movement where such regulation was decreased due to an act of Supreme Court that made m-uch of its legislation unconstitu- tional on the basis of freedom of speech. It is clearly apparent that campaign fmance reform legisla,.. Generally, in the Senate, Repub- licans have been able to stop any form of campaign finance reform by utilizing the filibuster. Reformers have not been able to gafu. enough support to pass reform in campaign fmance. Only if the House and the Semtte can agree o:tl! a specific cam- paign reform policy can it pass in ,.,The NiXon v. Shrillk Missouri Gol'einment PJJCcasetltat reached the.Suprem'e Court,· does ~ho~chop~fore~mp~{g~fi- ·• ftance reform. to. ttike place. This case uptJeld )fissifuri's limits at~ campaign contribu·tions six>,tQ three. The court used B~u·ekley v. Valeo to show that Missouri's limits were coltstitutioital. ·In the dissent, Justice Thomas ,and Jus.~ice Kenn'edy catledfor an overruling ojBuckley}l.· Va1e'o·.saying tltatthedetisi()n was matle in error, and th,at they would allow soft money. to he banned in bal fights over whose campaign is costing more. For example, the Re- publican candidates George W. Bush, and Senator John McCain began discussion of campaign fi,.. nance reform, and it quickly de- volved into accusation. They ac- cused each other of not being proper with campaign fmances in their quest for election tQ the presi- dency. The Democratic candidates have been for the most part pretty hushed on this issue as well. Why is it that none of the primary candi- dates have made any statement of campaign fmance legislation? It is apparent that attempts by reform- ers to pass such legislation have bad a difficult time in Congress. The history of campaign finance :,o'. ' .. , . ctunpatgn. . . tion is difficult-to pass in Congress,· Congress. Also, the Snpreme but at the same time that the evo- Court must agree with 1his legisla- lution of this legislation is such tion and deem it constitutional. that eventually it will pass. As re- Furthermore, the White House cent as the ·late 1990s, Congress must also agree with this legisla- has made some progress in reform- tion. This is the only waythat earn- ing campaign fmance legislation. paign finance reform legislation Support for campaign finance leg- has a chance to become federal law islation has increased. IIi the in the United States. HouseofRepresentatives, biparti- sanshif! has increased despite the partisan division that campaign fi- nance reform legislation has always had a history of since after 1979. Democrats and Republican moder- ates have teamed up together to have sufficient clout to pass cam- paign fmance legislation. It is in the Senate that reformers have troable passing campaign fmance legislation. The Nixon v. Shrink Missouri Government PAC case th,at reached the Supreme Court, does show hope for campaign fmance reform to take place. This case upheld Missouri's limits on campaign con• tributions six to three. The court used Buckley v. Valeo to show that Missouri's limits were constitu- tional. However, the opinion of the majority decision is not important. What is more important is the dis- sent opinions. In the dissent, Jta~:;­ tice Th<;~mas and Justice Kennedy called for an overruling ofBudde:y v. V aleo saying that the decisioil was made in error, and that they would allow soft money to b-e banned in campaign finance legis· lation. If Congress were able t<J pass legislation strictly prohibitlli!:J soft rnoney, the Supreme Court would be supportive of such leg· islation. The Justices seem to im· ply that the opinio11 of the courts with respect to campaign fmancoe legislation is becoming more p()SL• tive. Before the Supreme Court ca11 weigh the constitutionality of a:~ry campaign finance legislation. it must fiFst pass Congress. The put>- lic has been adamantly in suppori of campaign finance legislatioa. Congress and the White House are feeling the stress of this publi.; opinion. lt is my belief that with subse-- quent pressure, th11t sometime soon, Congress will pass a mea.• sure of campaign fmances legisla.- tion. It is hoped that with this re-- form that soft money can finally be balPled, and that .as the primary goes. on that candidates discus,s their platform on reforming cam_ .. paign fm;mce legislation. People have a righttoknow w.h.-t members of Cong:~\ess are doing, and how much and what Congres:s, is using their campaign money for. Also, elimination of corruption hs necessary for Congress to worl: efficiently and effectively as well as to g-ive the public a positive opinion of government as a whole. The public demands campaign ft· nance legislation. Twenty-Five Killed in Nigerian Riots by Stephen Nemeth Staj]Writer Hundreds of soldiers were called into action Tuesday to quell vio- lence that has arisen 1Jetween Mus- lims and Christians Dver Muslim calls for strict Islamic laws - Shariah - in the Nigerian city of Kaduna. Over twenty-five people have been killed, their bodies left on the street, since rioting be:gan Monday night following aCilristian protest which dtew thousands opposed to the Shariah. Kadun.a 's Deputy Governor Stephe11: Shekari pleaded unsuccessfully to the protestors, \I am appealing to the Christian and Muslim leaders to caution their fol- lowers and desist from the ongo- ing riots.\ Dozens of churches and mosques have been s.et aflame as Muslim and Christia11 gangs armed with sticks, cutlasses, machetes and knives roamed the street. It was a situation characterized by reports as a scene of total anarchy~ Rioters erected barriers and lit bon- fires throughout the street and blocked entrances to the city from the capital from the south and to Olusegun Obasanjo took office, over 1 000 people have been kill-ed in religious-based violence. The election and inauguration ended fifteen years of military rule in Africa's most populous country. Most of the country's Muslim supporters of Shariah sa¥ that the laws, which prohibit cons11mption of alcohol lUld mandate separate schools for men and women, would not affect Christians. This issue has also polarized religio11s opin- ions in the nation of 108 million in- other major cities r--~~~~~~~~---.......__,___ __ ...._,. ___ __, habitants, which is di- from the north. vided between Chris- The Kaduna po- . \Doz:elt.S' of ch,urches audmosques iians, Muslims, and lice force receiv~d I'·_• ·have be:en .set a ~:tame as:M~tsllm ,and : animists. much needed assts- · · ·. · . . ·. ':I 111 · · • · . ··· · . · · · · Shariah has been Christian gangs armed with sticks, implemented in the ~r~~s ;;:~~~e~~ cutlasses, machetes and knives ~~;;;Y 1 ~;:~;;~:~ t:ance from the sol, western, and south- roamed the Street. tr Kaduna. Both oppo- western regions of nents and proponents the country. As of of the new laws have Tuesday night the '--'---~~---~-~~--~~~~~------\ used it as a test case. violence that had plagued Kaduna dominated northern regions have In this region, courts can oTder amM for a number of hours began to either instituted Shariah or consid- putations and beheadings f<;Jr cer- subside. \We are working hard to ered doing so. Christians in the tain crimes, but thus far the most bring the situation under control,\ south and in the north are worried severe penalty has been eighty said state police commissioner that they, along with other non~ strokes of the cane to a Muslim Hamisu Isah. M-usl:itns will face discrimination if caught drinking in public, Since last May, when President the laws are introduced. Isl~;~mic Addressing the Shariah issue will prove a sensitive issue for Obasanjo, since he does not wisll to alienate the North, where there is a widespread feeling of exclusio11 from key government appoint· ments. · Previous violence between Mus;- lims and Christians has resulted il1 a great deal ofbloodshed. In 1967; dissension between Muslim Hausa-speakers and Christian Ib<J immigrants. helped trigger a civil Wlll' which resulted in one milli()l1 deaths. The quick resolution of this cti· sis would prove beneficial to th-e overall stability of the region. Over the past ten years, Africa has suf· fered a succession ofbloody wars based on cultural and religious dif- ferences. it is imperative that the largest country in Africa quickly resolv;;e this divisive issue to prevent fur· ther erosion of stability in the re· gion. Wtitefor World News, contactNeilRoutman atroutrnann@union.edufor more informatiotl. .. ' ·,. ~ ; '.. . A ish : guat day' then A sc that Part Bue Die~ Tl prot thre Base TaP TJ Bue: oftr heac oftl Ir clas: nite1 tion men men flict luti< erec Nev are wan 1 pre~ Pro. biar den Jam a pc tion H has Tai pea' reuJ hav sure defc E stre Uni lati1 sev Uni Nai Tht Bo~ Mo to t dec WOJ pro isst intc

World News QJ:OJtCorhh:usis • February 24, 2000 ·Page 15 Explosion Kills Senior Socialist Party Official by Stephen Nemeth StqffWriter A prominent figure in the Span- ish Socialist Party and his body- guard were violently killed Tues- day when a car bomb exploded near them in downtown Vitoria, Spain, A senior party .official indicated that the men killed were Provincial Party Secretary General Fernando Buesa and his bodyguard Jorge DiezEl<;>rza. The bodyguard was assigned to protect Buesa due to increasing threats and violence from the Basque Separatist group Euskadi Ta Askatasuna(ETA) .. The explosion occurred near Buesa' s home and withi.n 200 yards ofthe Basque regional President's headquarters in Vitoria, the capital of the Basque province of Alava. The Alava government is ce>n- trolled by the Basque Natioaa 1 Party, whkh supports Basque in- dependence lmt opposes the. vio- lent methods ofthe ETA. Buesa's party had supported the cutreJL t system of autonomy fo·r tlte Basque region as provided l:ly the Spanish C>Qn.stitution. Socialist Party spokesmllll JDse Manuel Eguia~aray condenmed the killing, \This attack has been carried ()\It b:y those who kn()w no other language than killing. They are promotin~ themselves ina ma- cabre way.\ . Buesa, ·5J, wholeaves a wife a.nd three children, had been amo11g some 10,000 people who took p2rt in. an anti-ETA demonstrationS2t- urday in ilie Basque city of San Sebastian. It was also confirin.ed that Buesa had been on the ETA hit list fora munber of months. The Basque National Party ·inl~ mediately condemned the atta.ck stating, ~'h{)rror has again struck our people.\ Interior Minister Jose Mayor Oreja stated that the pe()ple in Spain and the Basque regio0n \must understand the macabre 'les- son ETA is trying to teach us.\ No oneirnmediatelyclaimedre- sponsibility for the bombing, but officials suspected the ETA. The Spanish government Jus blamed Basque separatists f()t a blast last month. in Madrid that claimed thebfe of an army officer and· apparently ended a fourteen- month truce in the rebels' thirty- year fight for independence. About800 people have died in this struggle. The latest attack comes justd1ys prior to the start ofthe official cam. paign for the March 12 g~neral elec· tion in which Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar has !)]edged to con- tinlle his hard line ~>tance against'\ Ba.sque separatism_ Spanish poli- tiGia.nsaccused the ETA fercreat- in~aclimate of fear in the run-up to· tlle election. A:znar continued his hard stance a:gqillst the separatis:ts and reiter- ated thathe·would aot yield to \ter- f{)ristblackmail.\ '\''I'oday we are n()t only united ingrief, we are united by the deter- rnillation not to give in to barbar- ity,to terror nor to terrorist black- rnCllil. We have sho~ .that and we will continue to sb()W it,\ Aznar saiod in a televised speech to the nation. Be also took aim <tt Inainstream Ba:sque nationals fo.r refusing to break ties with the ETA. \Political agr;eements are incompatible with mt1rder and its justification,, the P.rLme Minister said, adding it was time for \answers that distinguish between th:ose who are with ter- rorism and those who are with peace.\ The Socialist candidate for Prime Minister, J<>aquin Almunia, also decried the 'bombing. \We must all fight to defend our freedom, to strengthen democracy and to put a stop to blind violence and mur- der.\ The situation in Spain is a seriu ous one may demand swift action. The actions of the ETA along with certain sectors ofthe Basque popu- lation present a problem that is not localized within the country of Spain. Significant Basque popula- tions also reside in France and the potential for an explosive predica- ment across borders is possible. With th.is volitile situation at hand, Spain must react accordingly in order to control possible problems. China-Taiwan Conflict Threatens Trade by Neil Routman World News Editor In yet another series of verbal clashes, China andTaiwan have ig- nited in a heated debate_ The ques- tion of whether Taiwanese govern- ment remains the legitimate govern- ment of Taiwan has remained a con- flict since the 1949 Communist revo- lution. China has always .consid- ered Taiwan just another province. New developments in this situation are contingent on upcoming Tai- wanese presidential elections. The three parties bidding for the presidential seat, the Democratic Progressive Party's Chen Shui- bian, the ruling KMT' s Vice presi- dent Lien Chan, and independent James Soong, all have pushed for a peaceful platform for negotia- tions. However, the Chinese initiative has not been so friendly. \Ifthe Taiwanese authorities refuse peaceful negotiation to solve the reunification issues, China will have no choice but to take all mea- sures including the use of force to defend its territorial integrity,\ said . Chinese Foreign Ministry spokes- man ZhuBangzao. The questi()n of a Taiwanese ref- erendum setsthesmall country up for a-severe division. While the presidential <:andidates are push- ing for pe:ace with China, many members.()fthe current govenunertt remain steadfast, refusing to yield power orindependence. \Coilllll.unist China's continua.! denial ofthe existence of theRe- public ofCh::ina is going te create more trouble for the two sides and make the relations more tense,\'' said Lin Choog-pin, Vice Chairman of Taiwan's Mainland Affair:s Council, refe1ring to Taiwan by its official name. The possible escalation to a use of arms ()bviously concerns the Asian community and other world leaders. The United States ha.s been compelled in fhe past to as.- sist in ne~otiations. The US ba..s also used its economic status (() , try and ca.rv( Chinese policies !() its liking. With leverage C()ming from wro entrance app:mv al, China is somewhat contained from restricted. trade. \We have :re:- peated, in I ilink both actions <tnod words, tbat we view any tlu:eat t() Taiwan with. grave concern,\ said White House spokesman Jo.e Lockhart. An important fact to bear in mind is the US and China trade relation- ship- the matter concerning the US Congress deals with repealing old legislation banning \most favored nation\ trade status to countries who are not up to US standards of human rights. Recently, at a WTO conference in Seattle, the US and China fma.lly agreed to agree. Both sides, de- spite conservative opposition Led by Jesse Helms, planned to incor- porate China in the WTO and al- low it to be recognized as a most fa voted nation. Recent complica- tions with the Taiwan government could place all of this recent progress in jeopardy. With Chi11a and Taiwan rattling sabers, unimpeded trade remaiJLs a question mark despite the recent progress made in Seattle. Domes- tically, the American consumer cares not f()r righteous trade prac- tices, merely lower prices and bet- ter pr~ducts_ This is illustrated. in the enormous foreign automol:Jiie industry. If China and Taiwan engage in a rniJitary conflict, gl()hal trade will be set back twenty years. Ameri- cu1s must understand that in~ creased trade with China will help both:. countries. Tile primary fear of many Americans is China's po- teatbtl for quickly becoming the w()r(d's mostpowe:rfulnation. Ecwever, economists stress that alienating Chinese trade will only hu!t American markets in the long run. With the emergence of the Em.ropean Union as. perhaps the mos1 powerful fiscal entity in the W()rld, the US needs. to capitalize on trade with a partner such as Cltina, especially while such cur- reac:y conditions ar-e so favorable. Outside ofthe reaJm of econom- ics., the United States has built up the 'fa.iwanese army; however, it is simply no match for the Chinese Amy. With nearry five million staJJ.ding foot soldiers., the commu- ni~t nation is able t() maintain an enormous force at at fraction the cost. Additionally, wi:threcent mili- tary leaks to Chinaeo11ceming mis- sile systems, the Chinese have been able to perfect long-range missile capa:bility. lbe si.tuation at hand has per- haJls come to a breaking point. China feels compelled to maintain a strong army and keep pressure on its neighboring nations. With internal reforms in the decentrali- zation of industries, the military has been increased, not decreased. Additionally, expert analysis places the aruiual cost of China's military some three times higher than what the Chinese government reports. China and Taiwan have reached the boiling p()int. Within a year, Taiwan will ill(}St likely be normal- ized as a Chinese province, as it is stiU recognized I:Jy the mainland. If this is not the case, military action will most likely be taken against the Tai government, therefore provok- ing a response by the US. In the worst case scenario, a second cold war will materialize. Though this would promote na- tionalism and internal economic growth. most economists agree that significant real growth lies within the Jaws of international trade today. By setting the world up for an- other bi-polar p<Jwer structure, the growth potential and political sta- bility potential will be reduced by a significant power. Union Impressive at Harvard Model UN by Dan Kirsch StqffWriter BOSTON-In a show of strength for a small delegation, Union College's International Re- lations Club earned the praise of several delegates at the Harvard University National Model United Nations conference, held late Thursday to early Sunday at the Boston Park Plaza Hotel Harvard's Model UN conference dates back to the 1960s, when the university decided a mock collegiate forum of world debate would he a way to promote awareness about global issues. Harvard later ex.panded into a high school Model UN, and high school and college Model Congresses. Student delegates sat.in several different c,ommittees to debate top- ics in world affairs, passing UN resoluti(lns to effect chartge i.11 policy ori:mprovement for the UN. Over 2,500 students attende([ fr()ni colleges,. gra.duate schools, and universities, predominantly in tlu.e U.S., butalsofromGhana, Vene:zu- ela, Canada, and Great Briiairt. Delegates from Union sat on such powerful committees as tile Economic and Financial AffaiJ:\s Coi:illnittee, World Health Org<tni- zation, anod tlle UN High Commis· sion on Rei'u,gees. Several commit: tees dealt with virtually the same issues, inclad.ing how to alleviate the economic and social burden on countries that host political refu- gees. This overlap of jurisdicti()n replicated very realistically the UN in the eyes ()f many participants. \The UN is just a massive b()dy that does nothing,\ said one del~ egate wh() preferred not to he named. Debates in all committees were conducted at tbe highest level of decorum, according to the chairs gfmostcoi:llmi.ttees. \I'm very im- pressed with the level of debate,\ said Nisha Agarwal, Secretary-<}en- eral (playactor/Harvard Stude11t). Chairs scmpulously adhered. to rules of parliamentary procedure, and did not shrink from callingdel .. egates out of order who did not kno0w how to use Robert's Rules ofi(}rder. Several delegates agreed, ho-w-ever, that this \august body\ w<ts nothing more tllana forum for Tlii.-d World, an'<lerdeveloped comntries to plea f()r aid, and First \V()rld, developed ilations to deny it to them. Third World countries did indeed form large wa1itions to demand reparations for refugee acteommodation aad burden-shar- ing. Vnion College, representing New Zealand, formed alliances with several diff-erent regional b!()CS, depending on the commit- tee:. The Asi.a-P'a-cific nations wOJrked closely with New Zealand om ~orne economic matters, but s0ocial issues as well as military ones tended to find Auckland sid- ing solidly with the United States and Western Europe. Delegates sat through six differ- ent four-hour sessions over the course of the four days, and all committees reported passing reso- lutions on their topics of debate, after taking half their time deciding what the topics would be. The club's members now await notifi- cation of whether school funding would come thl'ough to send del- egates to Harvard's World Model UN in Athens,Greece in late March to attempt participation in an inter- national, intercollegiate forum well- known globally. This would be the first time Union would he repre- sented in the Greece Model UN.

Advertisements $500 Cash Priz·e! The Union Chapter of Alpha .Delta Pili annuunct~t; the fir::;t unnuai At1<1> Campus- Wide Literary Competition C:ltl'gorwf> fhr submissiot\: l''iction fmd Non-t'iction '· .\ ( ·;1~h Prize of $200 will hf' awarded in €ach t'aH·gory '· Th(' Samuel Eells Prize. Ont' CaBh Prize o!'$500 wi!l h.· :1\' :tnl(.·tl ltl the hest over:'! II e11try. In ca,•· \ou'n• ~tul'k, hvrt· an• o\IIW.<II)!J:•'''''ri'Uipic :u~vo~ ... h• ;:!•'l .\11\.l .... l;ll'tl'li. • \ort·il~ thtH I {htt,t'~ •. ( 't!rl'f./1 1 .E\\ llf .. , ·'• \'\\\ Tt·dutrih.g.'-. til<' .. \!1.> • F!,,f/i.fl Slwr-1 ~111n ~h•~rr·~rtgt Pl,l\·. 1:.11hu }'l;n Pt11•tn I I 1 Tllr .R\!I~~ FM nwrt> mforf.lllliil>ll t•uat;wl. Brendan Lof111n. 51~.3~lHm~ <lo•ftonh@iclol.uni<>n.~·il!H I Th1• D··~ullmt• i~r Sui>mts.~U•rH 1' .\pnl.l .. :!lltlli· 2 :'lllbttnt· ,1!1 mnw~ m tlw 1llik•• •>I t.!H> Eru:;li,lo n .. 'P..Irllll.l'lll, !.ll' lht· ~nri iltllif' <II' th•· U,;IU.tiU~h ·.• lmllrlm:,: a 'J\ad1 'llhnth!-o<JUI1 IOII\t lllt'hafE~ thn·t· JH\lll.tt·~t ''l!:o-fllt'' tLI\d ;d :> d!>l>; II\ ~1:0: Wnrt.! \r IJthN' '\t\\nlollliV·U>L'l tiwnwli · 4 Enth copy t~ust mdud~ n t•nvror ,,flt•t•l <'r.tHatn111g . Mnw, \Ui)Jm~sr. c;ftt•gr>ry '\lirtwn· or··nun.ti<\llllft .. , · lttlt• <If ••n~r.l. CUI'I'POI addi'P'< j.ill<lfll' ll<llfli>Pr. cia,.• )'t•m; 'tm.IPnt IIJ h • ( 'm ••rsht•d •1v <li!~IJ!v 'Ill ht•••lli<\<· uf •.lw l~n1:11>fi llP]>artnwnt.• 5. f;;~Ch ..,lH'rf·.,~ !\•t' Jl,)J.f(' niU!il ('ontdlh 1 'IIi_\ ,·l!IJ;1_t!l numlwr.1•ntrv:.itk. an<l ::tndt•nl Ji<)#. 6 Or1l\' •1111' 'ulunt,;smn-[tf'r ratet:nrv 11<.'1\ sl1'1h·nl \Ill! / / be ar:n·ptt~l. 7 '~''~ fl'~l.·r.'l'\ t!w ri~hl tn publi,;h at! W<'i\f ~tthmilltli. 8. Thi~ -·umpt•lrtnm I~ or;en tn aii CUrrt'lilly f'llrllllt•d umlvrt:r;Hiuatt- l!nwn ( :.,llf'l!•· studrnl;,unl~ ([O+tCa+lrie:m,;is • Februar 24, 2000 • Pa e 16 David Mulligan Former Massachusetts Commissioner of Health Dlsoussing TH:E TOB.ACCO WARS: MASSACHUSETTS AND NEW YORK \How the anti-smoking coalition fought Big Tobacco and wont March 2, 2000 8:00PM Memorial Chapel -- Union College Sponsored by Union's Graduate Management Institute And the Schenectady County Committee on Health Care Issues For infom1ation call: 388-6299 LET TIAA-CREF =t:IEe?.LP YOU BUILD A SE,.C FINANCTAI., F;UrrUR B. F OJ\ QV-l..~l.- HO vc.-:-.rs. ~~-:r ./\ .. l'\-CI~J.~l_. .. l11~$ l -;.ceo 1\'11 I h-L~ 1 e-n•r! i 11113 re-' irc-n\Je .,... <~.:.\'<'l'11T!tf>.a.n. <1.,'1~ .··'\.·~'lC.~I-ilc..-.;:\ '.s c.-HT .. ''lJ>'l-'ISC'S. 131Lit CXli>C-1-aCIJ-<.'C' ii·S ; u s1. c.:. a-.c •-c.v\Lst.~l\'ll ..,...,,.h_...,, s,. . .._.,. .J1!i~,;;:t. r.:v- s~rna r-t: j, .. ....,·e:s't-~.··H-s. •r·u•~t. u~ .... -...·i'll'l 1.l·n~iir fi:nu:ntci.a] r~~.~ • r.• r-x- _ I I o(_·:~-(.· ..... -...._. a f\c.· ....... ~ • :t~ '-,•~:: S-..:a.perie>r strerag;t::l:1 \\.. 1 ••/i.tl-a oe-.. .... ~~t.·w~ .$:!.{.,() L,iJJi<..nl in .a.s~ets u:nder :a:r\...:iln- agc•n-c.:.•nt. \1'1 .. ''··/\.-CI~I~l .. - :is rhc world's l.c•r·gc:st •·ctiiz·<L•n-,cr-..1: c..r,e;.aa\'tt?_.a.tie>n ~ .an-c:i .<:III'TIIOOIOS 1:l\'lco .. u. :.!-;• .soc. ... 1 ic.l. 1 C ~a .._.,, 1 c c.> E. t h\\· r•e.o.-.s<~>•, s -·ll.Y j'\,.·l-l.. .. r~i n,gst:.ar· s.o:a..vs. #• ·1•1 ~~' .. ·.-,-<--:1-~ 1~1·· !:::lc-C.:s the stantl.;,•·.:l in t.hoc.! fit'lr.aa•cial se-r-vic-e-s i:nttluRia:.,v.\'·l S<ll·l1d~ l.o:1:1g--a:e:rm perf\'orm.a..._c.e '\..11,.··c ~cek (..,.ll.lit l .. ,.ng-1:-c-rm <\!IIJ:>f:Jr'<:Jii:-tu.-lil:ic:s tl:l:nt: c:.\Jtl ........ - ....... ,. •• ,r-..a••i.es .. iiir11 J\>\-Brs&...ai:·t onof· <11L1ick g.;a.in.s. \' rt:l.l'!:i-S. ~~· hc ... n.J.gh p . .a.::;t fJ<L•trf<..t~r.-Jli<ILI\II..._'ot.' c.:.;;~···c guar·a.nc:-ee f\ut:r..a .• ·e resulrrs.. 1:has p.utiena f:ll·haile~<S­ ... ~1.l\!._.. l11.a.H f:n-.: .. -...-..,~n extr\'ot!'r•·•·el_v re-·.:JLr<.:liillll:f- ~gtbe~ :Ce>r t:bJ~Do&~C ~ sh.a.pe ;._- S'\I.'JI.r'pri.:s:.i.rltgly :l·re::»\'W'V' e::x:p~:s:a.s.es ., ... , .. ,,..,-C. 1~ 1..::1;;-~s n~r.r.a'ling <.~..:\»'S'I·s ar-e a-lllnl.ong ·•:he tc:Jo ..... ve::si: :i:r\' -ct .. c.• .ii:nsura•111ec .ar.a.d . ....,IJLJU.IJL~a.Q • ~. ~ · · d · ::.e s·- c u.•'lll<.;. 1 :t'lt• u.s;t.r.tes. :.. o !IT.l.cuwe >C:'I<ll .:r·.oo'LIIT~ l\ll\ll<e:>l-..e_>• ge>e:s: -·hu:~rc ii• shcn.'!ld - t.o. ......... •.ar.d ens~•·i~ng _,._.c;;>-..ar If'~~..,, u.:~•e. :Easy d.:i:versi.fic.a t:i<J~o:a'1 \':O...\c..~ <>ll'C: r .a ......vide varict.Y ~r ~xp-L•I-t t>-· n\l.k\ln..t'l.ge<) rnvesl'll'nen.t c:.pt-io-n.s to help b .... ild .• YtOL.ar .liiiSSQtS~ \.~.re m~ke it s.imp•le. \tO>C.\:Jc, ._.lith sto<~..•l<.. ,. bol\l.d. :nl11110-:n.t.!'.Y m.o: .... rk.a::.,t. £>e-<' I est.a'ter .n.ncl. gu.o:~arVt.n.teed OoJ:>1.'ie>nsM ._,-.-..ri.valed .service '\.'-ore l:..eli-<.rvc that c::~~u r s.er'-~i.ce dis t ir:-..gu i.she=s 1.-1 :s frc.> • n ,te \1.-\'C ~=-:'>· o~tll e .- .ret; re nr'le •• c. .. :: ... -. t-\'1.\'1. ·r:~.a. •\'.:.>~. In the- rn<:Jt:s.t rc~~ent (\>.;;aiLar- s~o.u-,,ro_y .. ·rr.~r,.'-~<...:!1~1-::1•~ •·.a.n.l<.s 11:9pS iin partic..::ip.tt.ticu-.. 1!4.0-11. 1t: ii s f~u .. • 1:. .i. c.-.. n • 3 C:..:dl t.o<..l..t';;Y tot.'lo find ~u11: h<..>w Mri.r\\.r'\.- C R I ·: 1: ..;\ o;..~.:t. n he ~.p _V<\!IIl.t bu itd It 1-..e f1· n.a no:.: i.a.:l t ·t.• Jt IU •-41!\ _\!» .. <-> 11.1 -·.p& r .. t: .u. r-• c.i c:.lc:slt.:\ll' • .., ... ...., • -a·..::. flnod c::u.al( ;n::'l.c.Jolrc - gi .... ·-c u~ Nli c.aU c:11r .... ·is•l>c; c:•ur ~cl::.slu.:: I. 800 842-2776 '\'-~\\\.l\..I\'VVt. ...... t: i a a - c r c r. <)tor g I ::~•~-·-~ .,, ...... l 'li::v•••-:•h• • . 'ta.'ll'\f\\\u • .·,}.,./. t&',..,.l~._.~ :,..-,....,_ .. lf't•ioo·llofl\'_... ...- .. 1• ... ., •• . 11-~..,-.-...oh\'\\ft' A\*J4f' .... •1\...,.II.;.•Jiot'.., ...... ~ •. .JJIIJ't.JI '' .. ,Jf,\'f'IOQ -~· .,.,.\JJ'IU·+\'· ~II . .._..,_~ ... ;ta•• , Jt • ..,....\'l .J'S..••·1~~o'•'W1-• .-1•-•:_..._....,,• J/Itn.t~· .~1'\:4 I~ .. --~-~• ·f,t. * \'I t 'II 1~ ....... a • .• .,,.,. .. ~~ ...... •\ (.: .... ,- ... -.,._-,,. .... J ... r. ... •.: .~~o ., A',.,.,t•--•• -1'••• •••~ i .,.,, .... ~.ltot111·· ~~~~=.Y.i ··u-... ... .-,, , .... .a...,..t.d;•~ ....... lit'-• .,. .... ...::t -~~,-~to;-••--• • ...al t H<:•• ~:.r -:1';''•'\- ,.. .. \- -~· .. lr-#, ...... ·C.4111!~ .tt' -••.:J 1-1 ..... ~ .t-t.t-,...1 '-~.,,....,. t ... ,. 1 .... ;., t•• ...... -. _,_.... li,...· •·• • ,._.,, , ••\'-··lui-. I • ,. \\'• 'w i• •• ,...-... .... , ••• ..,~~·I ,-,.- .... ...--.\ 'I .1 -\ -\1· .( 1<1 ·II J<11 'I .... ~ ._.,fl,._.t .,~.J f *'\\\' u •i-••-d ..._\' .-. .• - ... ·1 \\\'.- .. l•talt..., i \-H ........... ;<.-~.n ~•• M.f•\'!'l >a¥1-r:l • h ---~..-,.. \' ,... J, .. ~ :J .. 't.JII., I<• AI I .t ~ •h- J-. \••••

' •• 16 Science & Technology <l.t:o:ucorhit:nJJifl • February 24, 2000 • Page 17 Science & Technology The Internet's \Weaknesses bySteve Ayers Staff Writer For ·many .people, the associa- tiou between ntindless zom])ies and personal computer users is a stretch, H()wever, recentdenia,J.of service atta.cks have made this association a reality. Two weeks a.go, thousC~nds of computers e>wned by Ullsuspect- ing individuals across the country were used in Denial of Service Attacks against popular Web sites. The attacks began with Yahoo.com and even.tually continued to occur 011 Web sites inc lading Amazon;com, Ebay, ZDnet and. Etrade. In these attacks, thmtsands of indepencdent computer systems were used as \zombies'\ to run malicioas programs that crashed these Web sites. Perhaps the most distressing .part of this attack is the fact that this incident could be used to reveal the funda:J.Ilental faults within the internal structure of the Internet. The Internet can be thought of as a subway system for infortnatio11, where data packets are roated through different networks. The number of messages traveling . at. one time affects their spee.d of special software to search for crashed. transfer. Any message is allowed illsecure computers. They then A baffling aspect of this story is on the network and messages illstalled a pmgram that would that the identity and motives of the travel by the route that provides .g,enerate fake requests for malicious corn,puter users are still the fastest delivery at that time. illformation from a designated unknown to law enforcement Though this system agencies. Because all has many advao- of the software tages, it is also . necessary for these appanmt that the ·attacks is widely system contains available on the some inherent diffi- Internet, it might culties. not have been a It is difficult to skilled computer anticipate or contrd • backer. The outcome the use of tbe of this attack was Internet. At p.eak . limited to making times, increased popular Web sites Internet trafficleads inaccessible for the entire systerp or several b.ours out of pa:Tts of it to b~ aday. extremely slow, Since the eventual Anyone wno has consequences of VIWw.corbis.com attempted to su:rf these attack will the Web at noon-__,.-~-~---------.,----~----- probably be the has experiertcecl this problem. Web site when triggered. Finally, tightening of computer's security This problem is primarily the a short message was used by these systems on the Internet. It seems result of social behavior, making computers, generating thousands unlikely that a hacker would be it difficult to predict or of fake req1,1ests to Web sites, motivated to repeat an. attack with accommodate increased Internet making it :impossible to access upgraded security systems. traffic. them. Closely related to this aspect of The attacks of two weeks ago These computers we.re 1he Intemetisthefundamentallack relied on this. last fact to bring effe<:tively converted into in security of Internet traffic. down popular Web sites on the zombies, mindlessly requesting Sending data through. the fastest Internet. A groap of malicious m.eaningless data again and route possible does not mean that computer users. or user, used a. gain unti.I the server finally this will be a secure rot1te. Sending sensitive data over the Internet is silnilar to sending an old man with a suitcase full of money through the .subway system. Encryption provides a partial solution, much like dressing this hypothetical man up in camouflage, but the Internet can never become a truly secure communication medi11m. Presently, software is available which reduces the chances that data will fall into the wrong hands, or that a computer could be used in an attack like those of two weeks ago. Public key encryption meth- ods will make it extremely difficult for anyone but the recipient of a message to read it, and firewaB programs can limit individual vulnerability to Internet attack. An effective firewall program is now available for no charge from www.zonelabs.com. As we depend more heavily on computers, we are also document- ing more of the personal details of our lives. Computers make this in- formation easy to duplicate, deliver and search, allowing those who gain access to this data greater ability to use it. Use of a computer carries with it the responsibility to make that computer secure. It is inevitable that it also carries the increased threat to our privacy. ·Continuing Lawsuit Against Microsoft by Sl()an Miller Science and Technology Editor As heavily reported early last November, the United: States District Judge Thomas Penfield J ac;kson declared, in a statement of the findings of facts, that he supportedthe evidence presented to the C()Urt by the g<>vernment representative in almost all aspects oftheir two- yearShellll03:1 Antitrust lawsuit against the Micmsoft Corporation. The government's legal team is comprised Gf representatives from nineteen states and the United States Department of Justice. The govemment's lead attorney is David Boies. The lead attorney for the Micros<Jft Corporation is Joint Warden. On Tuesday of this 'Week final arguments were made by represen· tatives of both th.e _government's and Microsoft's legal teams. The purpose of these arguments was to make one last attempt to persuade Judge Jackson's Conclu- sion.ofLaw. Thls legal statement is the court's final decision on what actions to take against the Microsoft Corporation. This monopoly ruling. is expected to be made within the next month or two. According to The New York Times, in this week's hearing the team of Microsoft lawyers was attempting to limit their company's losses in this antitrust lawsuit. The Microsoft Corporation is also planning to file an appeal to the 7 Bed·room House 2000-2001 Large Bedrooms, 2 Bathrooms, Modem Kitchen, Appliances, Extra Closets, Large Deck and Yard, Security System and only half Block from Campus One Year Lease A 28 Year Union Student Tradition! Call370-5498 court's ruling in November. The Microsoft lawyers defended their company's actions by stating that in order to survive in this modern high-tech industrial world, the software giant needed to be fiercely competitive. In resp()nS-e to Microsoft's ar- gument, the government said that actions taken by the Microsoft <;orporation ~rossed the line from mere competition into outright bul- !._·' lying. The attorneys for the government claimed that in their business techniques, Microsoft used every tool at their disposal in attemp-t to maintain their monopoly over the computer industry. Ace ording to CNN, the Microsoft Corporation threat- ened and bribed Internet service providers and com- puter manufac- tures. The company supposedly wanted to limit the applications and uses ()f Netscape Navigator, Microsoft's fnternet Explorer's major competitor. In 1998, when the court case against Microsoft began the governments weakest argument was that Microsoft was guilty of illegally tying Microsoft Explorer to its widely used Windows pn>· gram. To be proven guilty of tying these two products together, Microsoft had to make consumers accept a second product as .a con- dition ofbuying its market-corner- ing product. In a statement, Judge Thomas Jackson went as far as comparing the Microsoft Corporation to John D. Rockefeller'sStandard Oil Com- pany, which was ruled a monopoly and divided up almost ninety years ago. In the Conclusions of Law, the state and federal prosecutors are anticipated to request a massive structural readjustment, or the com- plete breakup of the software com- pany. The Microsoft Corporation has made it clear that such a ruling would not be accepted and would be fought in future lawsuits or appeals. :·- .. Rl'l0F: AID -:: :· .... : :· .. :· •. ,. ' ,. ( '. : . .. : . ;·.· . ; . :,:c ·'' WELCOMES ·~ -~:' . ·.· - . , ....... > .,.,.GNC ~GEit\iE·RA~ NufRITION CENTER ·,·: .. :. · ··::.::.:Avlt.As.LE IN MARCH ' . ·;.GOLD. ciARbS AVILABLE . \·:~.~--~-~ :-: <>·:,·:-.-; '. ~-~- ·-· . •·' ~ ·} ; .W~\~ti~ .. co:citE:o .. oN:VAN VRANKEN AvENUE · ' J ;\' > ' · ; . , · ;:~J.'i.+< .. ~i~J$82.·3304 ., .... : - .. : ' '.· : !-._ . -,\:·

Pag~ 18 • February 17, 2000 • <!Jom.arlrleniiis Final Ex-am Schedule . - . . - Final Exam Schedule Winter 2000 BIO*i!.3!Q*01 CER*.D35*.01 CHM*18:2*01 CHN*12:l*Ol. CLS*D2'l*Ol EC0*041*01 EC0*134'k01 EER*04 0*·01 EER*:ll4 3*01 ESC•022*01 13', 2000- 9:30-11:30 AM' Molecular Bio of Cell w/Lab Intii:'O to Psychobiology Animal Physiology w/Lab Water Resources ~ Environment Protein Biochemistry w/Lah Intermediate Chinese· 2 History of Greece Microeconomic Analysis Financial Analysis Circuits & Systems w/La:b Electromagnetic Engineering 1 Mechanics II:Material Scienee ESC*02 2A*01 Mechani·cs IIa:Material Science GRK:•J.3 0·*01 Homer: The Odyssey HST*!ZliL.3*.Dl History of US to Civil War HST*I\'Jl.4*.0l Hi::~tory of us Since Civil War HST*()3.5*01 History of Europe 1 HST*03.tl*·01 History of Europe 2 HST*Ol-6*02 History of Europe 2 HST*::l'b8*0l The Law:Engli.sh Origins - 1776 MTH•-()2:a*01 Probal::!ility MTH*:l~O*Ol Linear Algebra PHY•<O:L6*01 Physics/Life Sciences 2 w/La:b PSC\0'6i7*01 Race.& Ainer Political System PSY'•038*01 Developmental Psychology PSY'•04.6*0l Intra to Psychobiology SOC•.l38*0l Africa:Social & Demographic Mond~y. March 13, 2000 - 1:30-3:30 PM AAH• 034*01 19th Century European Art CSC•l36*0l Advanced Programming Technique ECO• 090*01 Economic Internships ECO•l32*01 Labor Econonrl,cs ESC•Ol.l*Ol Intro to Programming I ESC* 013*02 Intra to Programming I ESC*01l*03 Intro to Programming I ESC• 0·1.3 *0 4 In tro to Programming I FRN• 120*01 :r:n·termediate French 1 GER>-121*01 ITL>-0::10*02 JPN•l26*0l MERI-030*01 MTH•OBB*Ol PHL\\174*01 PHL\\274*51 Intermediate German 2 Basic Italian 1 Business Japanese I Dynamics of Systems w/Lab Progralnmi.ng with Ma.thematica Biomedical Ethics Biomedical Ethics PWi'\OEio*Ol Relativity/Gravity/Cosmology SOC\'048*01 Popul.ation and Society Monday, March 13, 2000 - 4:30-6:30 PM cso-242*51 Analysis of Comp Algorithllls EER\\220*51 State Space Analysis MER\'2.60*5l Nuclear Engineering & Techp.lgy SPN\'0J..1*02 Basic Spanish 2 ·MonC:ay, March 13, 2000 - 7:00.-9:00 PM GMI\\2J..2*5l Fin Analysis & Decision Makng GMI\'225 .. 5l Mar:keting Management and Strat GMI*'3::16*5l Special Topics in Accounting HSS\'225•51 Mktg & Mgmt Heal.th Care Sys MER\'200*5l Elasticity Tuesday, March 14, 2000 - 9:30-11:30 AM AA1i\\012*0l Intro Art History - 2 AMU•O.:L2*0l Language of Music BIC•010•02 Heredity/Evol/Ecology w/Lah BIO•Ol2*02 Cells & Organisms w/Lab BI<J•l-47*01 Immunology w/Lab CER'\\l54*0l Geo-Environmntl Engg Des w/Lab CHM•lSO*Ol Physical Chemistry 1 w/Lab CHN•Ol1*01 Basic Chinese 2 csc•l18*0l EC0'\'0 12*01 ECO\'l.39*0l EER'*l.18*01 EGL'*~24*01 EGL'*0-56*01 EGL'*Il!76*01 ESC\*0.25*01 FRN\*l.2l*01 GEO.'*I]Il~*Ol GRR'*()11•01 HST\*'()54*0l IMP'*I)12*01 LAT*IHl* 01 ~ITH *IUO*Ol MTH'*IU3*01 MTH*i)31*01 PSY *1)10*02 PSY*()30*01 PSY *()33*01 RUS *.()11*01 Digital Computer Design w/Lab Introduction to Economics Public Finance Digital Design w/Lab Major American Authors 2 Shakespeare after 1600 Modern American Novel Electric Circuits w/Lab Intermediate French 2 Earth, Life Thru Time w/Lab Principles of Greek 2 Rus~i~ in the I~perial Age Int Math/Physics 2 w/Lab Principles of Latin 2 Calculus 1 AP Calculus Linear Algebra & Diff Equation Intro to Psychology Personality Psych of Memory & Thinking Basic Russian 2 SPN*CI11*02 Basic Spanish 2 Tuesday, March 14, 2000 1:30 3:30PM AA11*035*0l ACC*D~O*OJ. AMIT*Dl6*01 ANT *043*01 BI0*040*01 BI0*160*01 CER.*-080*01 CER.*129*01 CLS.•026*01 ECO•*Ol2*04 EC0<*042*01 EER:*133·•51 EGI.*044*01 GEOt*020*01 HS'L\*022*0l HS'L\*OBO*Ol PSC:*Ol3*01 PS<:•J.39*01 PS'l:'*010*03 PS'l'*035*01 PS'!'*050*01 WS'J:'*054*01 Venetian Painting in Itl Renai Survey of Accounting Music Theory l Anthropology of Religion Fundamentals of Biochemistry Histology & Organology w/Lah Construct·ion for Humanity Analysis & Design of Structure Classical Literature Introduction to Economics Macro Theory & Policy Communication Circuits w/Lab Enlightenment & Romanticism Mineralogy w/Lab Civil War & Reconstruction Construction for Humanity Intro to Political Thought Seminar:Political Theory Intro to Psychology Industrial/Organization Psych Educational Psychology Civil War & Reconstruction WS'J:'*J.29*01 Seminar: Political Theory Tuesday, March 14, 2000 - 4:30-6:30 PM CSC•07\1*51 Data Structures csc•J.46*51 CSC*:244*51 EE!il.*:228*51 ENS*J.00*01 ESC*069*52 Gl>!::t* 226*51 Glrl::L* 271 *51 Computer Graphics Artificial Intelligence Computer Based Control Sys Environmental Studies Topics Engineering Economics Marketing Research Techniques Legal/Tax Aspcts of Partnrsbip Horton, J, S. :.,eisse, C. Fle:i.shma:ri., L. Snow, P. Fox, K.. Fe-rry., M. M. Holl.m.ann, A. Ya~sawarng, s. Lewis, B. Spinell:i, J. Chang .. , Y. Milillo, F. Milillo, F· Mace, S. Miller, A.T. Feffer, A .• 'Hansen, E. Berk, s. Walker, M. Halliday, P. Bar:bane1, J. Taylor, A. DeBattista, N. Weiner, T. Stanhope, L. Weisse, ·c. BeiLefo, K.D. Ogawa, D·. W:illiams, G. Fried, H. Sener, M.F. AllllStead, L. Hannay, D. Hedrick, J.N. Di'l'ursi, D.J. Chilcoat, A. M. Hamm-Ehsani, K Federici, J. Kh!Ul, Y r Anderson, T. Fairchild, W. Baker, R. Baker, R. Marr, J.M .• ;Bene fo, lC. D. HeiDIIlendinger,D Fatic, V. Wicks, P'. Moyano, P. Ashman, '1'. D. Desarkar, c. Arnold, D. Manna, V. Pollack, L. Ogawa, D. McMullen, D, Pytel, B. Tobiessen, P. Lauzon, R. Laplante, c. Anderson, J. Feng, J.P. Traver, C. Tomljanovich, M. McCarty, T. Traver, c. Slade, L. Stevenson, R. Pavlic, E. Chang, Y'. Batson, C.R. Garver, J.I. Mace, S. Berk, s. Barba:ilel/Reich ScuLlion, J, S TayLor, A. Roy, R. JQhnson, B. Benack, s. Donaldson, G. Burns, D.J. Hashamova, Y. S. Moyano, P. Matthew, L. CaDavan, M. Talln, H. Gmel.ch, s. Cb.u-·LaGraff I Q r Sllli tb. I G\ Sargent/Ghaly Mafi, M. Toher, M. Motahar, E. Rafferty, M.C. Hassib, E. He:lnegg, P. Holl.ocher, K. Foroughi, A. R. Sargent/Ghaly Brown, C. Marso, L.J. Rllhoni s , A. Nydegger, R. Spaulding, D. Foroughi, A.R. Marso, L.J. Wi.J:liams, G. Spallholz, L. Chen/Mattheres Gajjar, J. Hellner, W. Griggs, F. DesarJtar, c. Valle, lt. OLIN 2(H, BAIL, l ().() BAJ;L. 3U BUTR. 3•()() STZH ll)6i HUMN 21.3i HliMN 01.:!1 SSCl lll\1 SSCJ: Qll OLIN 3()6 NWSE 11:6 BAIL 201 BAIL 2·01 OLill 305 liUMll l.l:S BAIL 20'1 COL<: AtlD SSCl 103 OLill 13;5 ARTS 2J:5 NWSE 210 BAIL 102 NWSE 114 HtJMll' ll2 BAIL 300 BAIL l(JO BUTR Hl9 ARTS 2:15 OLI!f 1CJo6 BAIL ~(}l ARTS 1(19 OL:t:tl' 3Cio6 OLIN' 3(17 NWSE ll4 OL:C!T HJ:2 HUM!T .014 sscr 01:2: HUMtr oc.& HUMif 010' NWSE:: 2~2 OL:Clt: 107 HUMtr 11.5 HUMif 116i NWSE:: 303 SSCI: 10 3. NWSll: 116 NWSii: 1.14 NWSE: 222 JiUM!Ii 0 0 & ~014 ssct ou OU!i' 115 HUMl'l' 0 lg NWSE: 222 AR'l'S Zii.S AR'l'S 31.3 BA:It. 2:07 BAJ:t. 2~1. SSCJ:: ():12 STZB l-()6 . OL:IN 1.1)6 SSCJ: l:llSE OL:l~· 3()6 SSCl: 01:.4 SSCl: Ll!.3 OLJ:N 306 HU!!N 117 li1Jml' 1.12 NW:SE 114. NW:SE 2UJ AR\l'S 210 OLJ.rl 307 HUllrl Olll SS<::l 104 NWSE 11:2 Huml Ol.l6 BAlL 1016 BAli. 10:2 OLUI 10'7 BAlL 31:2 BAli. 30() BU\l'l! 10'9 Hum! 01:2 Hum! 00~ ARTS 215 BAU, lCl~ AR'i':S 313 ST'Zll lCH SSC! CJ12 NifSl: :116 OI. Ill' :[() 6 BUTJt 1109 HUMlf lH HtJMlf <JH ssc·l ll(J 3 NW~E :2:22 HUMJf liS. Ot.bl' 33 2 SSC:I OU oLnr 10<& SS<:I HH SS~I 1()5 BAI:I. 3()() BAI:I. lU BAI:I. l ()() SSC:I O.U SSC:I U5i HOIIIIl 0 u Ot.I:If 3()1 S'r!:l£ l..OS NWSI!: U.S OIJX:Ii UJJ OLIN :1:32 OL:XN 307 H1lJolN 116 Tuesday, March 14, 2000 - 7:00-9:00 PM GMJ:*2:L0*51 · Financial Accounting Arnold, D. HSS*256\'51. Group P:t'~:~,c Ad,mn: SeJ:!:i « P:r~t.ctcm Kleinba.uer, ~. S'1,'A*202*51 Statistical Methods Wednesday, March 15, 2000- 9:30,11:30 AM AMU*02l*Ol Beethoven to Bernstein ANT*026*01 EC0*012*02 ·EGL*Ol9*0.J: Youth r. Popular Culture Introduction .to Economies Maj o:t English Au.tho:r;s 1 En~rgy :t. Mechanics I w/La:b Basic French 2 Surv~y:F:tenc;h Lit 2 Basic Ge~ 1 Popular Culture & Amer ,H::st. Inter:~~~ediate Japanese 2 Latin Epic Heat Transfer Analysi.·s \rhermod:ynam±cs 2 Game Theory Intro: Lqgic &: Set Theory Geometry Ideas of. Mode:r;n· Physics Princ.iplefll of Soim.d &: Mus:ic Int Mo.dern Physics w/L·ab East Eu;rope Poli t;!.cs r. Juf:!tice Sens.ation ~ Perception, Health Psychology Intermediate ~uasi~ 2 Basic Spa,n.isl:;l 1 Intermediate Spanish 2 Inter.mediate Spanish 2 ENS*033*01 ];:.SC* 021* 01 FRN*011*01 FRN*l32*0.1 GER.*OlO'I\'01 HST*113*01 Jl?~*l2l*Ol LAT*137*0l MER*OS 0*.01 MER*0·62*01 MTH*057·*01. MTH'I!'09-S*0'1 MTH*l24*01 PHY*042·*0l PWi*046*0l PHY*OSl*Ol PSC*04.8*0l PSY*032*01 PSY*047.*-0l RUS*l21*0l !?PN!\'01.0*01 SPN*12l!*Ol SPN*l2l*02 Wednesday., Ma-rch 15, 2000 - 1: 30-3,:3'0 PM AN'l'*Ol.O·*Ol ANT*010*02 EER*060'*01 :ITL*120*01 MER*035*01 MER*160*Ql MTH*Ol.l~*Ol M'i'H*Ol.lB*01 MTH*O.l.lB*02 MTH*0.12*01 MTH*Ol.2*02 MTH*015*0l MTH*015*02 Cultural Atithr.opology Culture~.l Antb,ropology Discrete Systems w/Lab Inter.mediate Italian J. Engineering Reliability Thermal/Fluid Sys Desi~~/Lab Calculus with·Precalc: l Calculus with Precalc 2 Calculus with Precale 2 Calculus 2 Caiculus 2 Caiculus 3 Calculus 3 MTH*017*01 Calculus· 4.:Integ;ral Vecte>r MTH*OSB*Ol. Appls -of Math to Eco 1. PSC*011*01 Intro to American Poli.t:ies Wednesday, March 15 .. 2000- 7:00-9:00 PM GMI*217*51 Financial Management GMI*221*Sl Managerial Economics GMI*25l*51 Managing PeopLe & Teams Ln Org HSS*280*51 Hlth Sys Adm, Planning & Pol STA*201*52 :tntro to Prob<lbility &: s~atist Thursday. March 16, 2000- 9:30~11:3D·.AM BI0*010*01 Heredity/Evol/Ecology w/t.a:b BI0*012 *01. Cells &: O.rganisms w/Lab BJ:0*150*0l. Evolutionary Biology BI0*154*01. Developmental Biology w/X:.ab CERir132*01 Reinforced Concrete Desg w/Lab CER*160*01 Transportation Engg w/Lab FRN*Ol:O*Ol. Basic French 1 GER*Ol.l.*Ol GER*{l11.*02 HEB*O'll.*01 HST*049*0i ITL*010*0·1 Basic Ger.man 2 Basic German 2 Basic Hebrew 2 Europe Between Two Wars Ba.:sic :Italian 1 JPN*Oll.*Ol. :Basic Japan&se 2 MER*.033*0i. Fluid Mechanics I w{I.ab· MTH-*127*01 Numerical Methods PSY*Ol'O*'Ol I1:1tro to Psychology PSY*025*01 Experimental Psych w/Lab SPN*Oll.*Ol Basic Spanish 2 Thursday, March 16, 2000- 1:30-3:30 PM CER*l43*01 · Foundations & Co:ilstr w/Lab CLS*OEiO*Ol Death in the West CSC*037*01 Structured Programming CSC*144*0l Functional. Programming. ECO*l4'2*01 Problems in Macroeconomics ECO*lS1*01 Monetary Economics EC0*251*51 Monetary Economic·s PHI.*048*01 Philosophy & Current Affairs PSC*07l*Ol Civil Rights & Civil I:.i:berties PSC*074*01 Political Campaign :i..n America PSY*020*0l Statistical Methods/Psychology PSY*03l.*Ol .l,.bnormal Psychology SOC*Ol0*02 Intro to Sociology STA*201.*51 Intro to Probability & Statist Thursday, March 16, 2000 - 4:30-6:30 PM CHM*O 32*01 Organic Chemil!try 2 w/r..ab CHM*032*02 Organic t:hemistry 2 vt/I.ab Thursday,. March 16. 2000 - 7:00-9:00 PM ANT*OS0*51 North American lndians GMI*24l*Si Systems AnaLysis & Simulation GMI*245*51 Management Information Systems GMI*250*5il Organizati.onal Theory HSS*201*51 Health Systems Management Friday, March 17. 2000- 9:30~11:30 AM CSC*OlO*Ol Computers & Computing CSC*D10*02 Computers & Computing CSC*Ol0*03 Computers & Computing PHY'*Dl7*0l. Matter in Motion w/Lab PHY*017*02 Matter in Motion w/Lab PHY*Ol7*03 Matter in Motion w/Lab PHY*Ol1*04 Matter in Motion w/IJab PHY*Ol7*05 Matter in Motion w/Lah SPN*l.20*01 Intermediate Spanish l SPN*l.20*02 Intermediate Spanish 1 Friday, March 17, 2000- 1:30-3:30 PM CHM*O.l0*01 Fund Chemistry 1 w/Lah CHM*Ol0*02 Fund Chemistry 1 w/Lab CHM*Ol0*03 Fund Chemistry 1 w/Lab CHM*01~*01 FUnd Chemistry 2 w/Lab CHM*Ol2*02 Fund Chemistry 2 w/LaJ;J Schmee, J, McMullen, D. Condry, I.R, Fried, H. Stevenson, R. Shanebrook, J. Keat; W.D. Chilcoat, A. M. Thomas, w. Kellenter, s. Sterngass,- J. :Khan, y, Hollmann, A, .• Som, A. Wic)ts, F. Zwicker,, W, J'ohilson, B. Roy, R. DeBattista, N. :Khosropour, 1\, McWhirter, J. Hislope. R. Sanj:;.ana, M. Rieg, T.S. Hasham,OVCI,, Y.S. Osuna, u·. Cama(lho-Platero, L. Martinez I v r Fox, J.W. Fox, J.W. Ga:j-j ar, J·. Federici, J, Blinn, M.P. Andersc>n, A.ll_- Reyno1ds, P, l!.. Z i111111e rma:t;1, It' • Zi111111erman, IC. Cervone, D.P. Cervone, D.P. Bick, T. Zwicker, w. Niefield, s. Fairchild, ;r, OxJ.ey, Z.M. Ashman, T.D. Lan1brinos, if, Nydegger, R.V. Manna, v. Schmee., J. Brown, G. Rice, S.K:. Boyer, J, :Boyer, B. Mafi, M. Wolfe,. F.A. ·Batson, c. R. Kellenter, s. Kellenter, s. Almog, M. Hans~, E. Federici, J~ Wojnovich, II!!. Shap.ebrook, J. Cervone, D.!?. Rieg, T.S. Burns, D. J. Martinez, V. Ghaly, A. Toher, M. Hannay, D. H~endinger, D. Motahar, E. Rafferty, M~C. Rafferty, M~C. :Brown, R.M. Underwood, J. Brown, c. Greenberg, S. R1Jbonis, A. Kaplan, I. :Bowman, R.A. Adrian~ J.C. Kahley-Wolf.,. M. Schaefer, J. G. Bo\Ot'11lan, R. A , Cossey, D. Strosberg, ~. ·Quinn, F. .Almstead, L. Glynn, M. Keller, D. Jones, C. KOO:J?IIllln, R. Koopman, R. Surman, R.A. Maleld, s. Mosquera, D. Mosquera, D. Martinez, L,J, Hag.erman, lit, Hagerman, tt, Anderson, ;r, Hayes, D. HUMN' 1.12 HUMN 014 OLIN 306 AR'l'S 215 ssc:r 012 ssc:r 104 HUMN 0.08 NWSE 1l6 NWSE 205 HUMN 014 HUMN 016 :inTMN 019 B]!.J:L 20'7 HUMN O·l.O HUMN 213 N:WSE 114 NWSJ!l 222 BAJ:L 106 BAl:L .U2 BAIL 104 OLiN 107 NWSE 112 NWSE 328 ~TS 109 :SA:t:L 201 BAIL 312 HUMN 012 Ot.J:N 106 STZH 106 ARTS 210 OLIN 115 OLIN 115 NWSJil 114 HUMN 116 OLIN 307 NWSE 205 BAIL 106 BAIL 207 BAIL 207 SSCI 104 SSCI 104. BAIL 102 BAIL 104 ~019 OLIN 107 SSCI 01.2 HUMN 014 HUMN 117 HUMN 116 HUMN 019 OLIN 307 BAIL 207 HUMN 019 OLIN 106 NWSE 116 BUTR 109 OLIN 102 SSCI 012 SSCI 014 SSCI 014 HUMN 016 SSCI 103 HUMN 117 liuMN 010 NWSE 222 HUMN 014 BAIL 3U BA::tL 300 HUMN 00.8 BUTR 300 HUMN 008 OLIN 106 NWSE 116 HUMN' 213 ssc:r 010 SSCI 010 HUMN 116 ssc:t no BAIL 106 BAIL 300 BAIL 312 SSCI 104 HUMN 014 OLIN' 11.5 OLIN' 115 SSCI 110 OLIN' 307 OLtN 306 H1JMN 019 HUMN 014 OLIN 306 OLIN 307 OLIN 106 NWSE 114 NWSE 116 NWSE 300 NWSE 210 S'l'ZH 106 BAIL 104 BAIL 104 OLIN 115 OLJ:N 115 OLJ:N 115 SSCI 104 ssc:r 104 http:/ /concordy. union.edu ('

Page 18 • February 17, 2000 • <1Io:u..cornhnsis Final Exam Schedule Final Exa1n Schedule Winter 2000 \londay Marc 8I0*025*01 810*046*01 8IO*l30*01 CER*035*01 CHr.l*l82*01 CHN*l21*01 CLS*021*01 EC0*041*01 EC0*134*01 EER*040*01 EER*l43*01 ESC*022*01 ESC*022A*Ol GRX*l30*01 HST*Ol3*01 HST*Ol4*01 HST*035*01 HST*036*01 HST*036*02 HST*l48*01 MTH*028*01 MTH*l40*01 PHY*Ol6*01 PSC*067*01 PSY*038*01 PSY*046*01 13, 2000 9:30 ll:30AM Molecular Bio of Cell w/Lab Intra to Psychobiology Animal Physiology w/Lab Water Resources & Environment Protein Biochemistry w/Lab Intermediate Chinese 2 History of Greece Microeconomic Analysis Financial Analysis Circuits & Systems w/Lab Electromagnetic Engineering 1 Mechanics II:Material Science Mechanics IIa:Material Science Homer: The Odyssey History of US to Civil War History of US Since Civil War History of Europe l History of Europe 2 History of Europe 2 The Law:Eng1ish Origins - 1776 Probability Linear Algebra Physics/Life Sciences 2 w/Lab Race & Amer Political System Developmental Psychology Intro to Psychobiology SOC*l38*01 Africa:Social & Demographic Monday, March 13, 2000 1:30 3:30PM AAH*034*01 19th Century European Art CSC*l36*01 Advanced Programming Technique EC0*090*01 ECO*l32*01 ESC*013*01 ESC*Ol3*02 ESC*Ol3*03 ESC*Ol3*04 FRN*120*01 GER*l2l*Ol ITL*Ol0*02 JPN*126*01 MER*030*01 MTH*088*01 PHL*l74*0l PHL*274*51 PHY*066*01 Economic Internships Labor Economics Intro to Programming I Intro to Programming I Intra to Programming I Intro to Programming I InteDnediate French 1 Inteunediate German 2 Basic I tali an 1 Business Japanese I Dynamics of Systems w/Lab Programming with Mathelllatica Biomedical Ethics Biomedical Ethics Relativity/Gravity/Cosmology SOC*048*01 Population and Society Monday, March 13, 2000 4:30 6:30PM CSC*242*51 Ana1ysis of Comp Algorithms EER*220*51 State Space Analysis MER*260*51 SPN*Ol1*02 Nuc1ear Engineering & Techn1gy Basic Spanish 2 Mc·rtd<ty, Mdt•·t; IJ, 200il 1;00 C>:OO PM GMI*212*51 Fin Analysis & Decision Makng GMI*225*51 GMI*316*51 HSS•225*51 MER*200*51 A.AH*Ol2*01 AMU*Ol2*01 BIO*Ol0*02 BIO*Ol2*02 BIO*l47*01 CER*l54*01 CHM*l50*01 CHN*Oll*Ol CSC*ll8*01 ECO*Ol2*01 ECO*l39*01 EER*ll8*01 EGL*024*0l EGL*056*0l EGL*076*0l ESC*025*0l FRN*l21*01 GEO*Oll*01 GRK*Oll*Ol HST*054*01 IMP*Ol2*01 LA.T*Oll*01 MTH*OlO*Ol MTH*Ol3*01 MTH*03l•Ol PSY\010*02 PSY\030*01 PSY\033*01 RUS*Oll*Ol SPN*Oll*02 I\AH*035*01 ACC*OlO*Ol AMU*Ol6*01 ANT*043*01 BI0*040*01 810*160*01 CER*080*01 CER*l29*01 CLS*026*01 EC0*012*04 EC0*042\'01 EER* 13 3 \'51 EGL*044*01 GE0*020*01 HST*022*01 HST*080*01 PSC*Ol3*01 PSC*l39*01 PSY*Ol0*03 PSY*035*01 PSY*OSO*Ol WST*054*01 Marketing Management and Strat Special Topics in Accounting Mktg & Mgmt Health Care Sys Elasticity 'J:Hl ll:lO AM Intra Art History - 2 Language of Music Heredity/Evol/Ecology w/Lah Cells & Organisms w/Lab Immunology w/Lab Geo-Environmntl Engg Des w/Lab Physical Chemistry 1 w/Lab Basic Chinese 2 Digital Computer Design w/Lab Introduction to Economics Public Finance Digital Design w/Lab Major American Authors 2 Shakespeare after 1600 Modern American Novel Electric Circuits w/Lab Intermediate French 2 Earth, Life Thru Time w/Lab Principles of Greek 2 Russia in the Imperial Age Int Math/Physics 2 w/Lab Principles of Latin 2 Calculus 1 AP Calculus Linear Algebra & Diff Equation Intra to Psychology Personality Psych of Memory & Thinking Basic Russian 2 Basic Spanish 2 ·!: : ·1 :c\'~- ~t' ~: ~o I'~ Venetian Painting in Itl Renai Survey of Accounting Music Th.eory 1 Anthropology of Religion Fundamentals of Biochemistry Histology & Organology w/Lab Construction for Hwmanity Analysi·s & Design of Structure Classical Literature Introduction to Economics Macro Theory & Policy Communication Circuits w/Lab Enlightenment & Romanticism Mineralogy w/Lab Civil War & Reconstruction Construction for Humanity Intro to Political Thought Seminar:Political Theory Intro to Psychology Industrial/Organization Psych Educational Psychology Civil War & Reconstruction WST*l29*01 Seminar: Political Theory '''esda?, March 14, 2000 4:30 6;30 PM CSC*077*51 Data Structures CSC*l46*51 Computer Graphics CSC*244*51 Artificial Intelligence EER*228*51 Computer Based Control Sys Horton., J. S. ;.:rei sse, C. Fleish.man, L. Snow, P. Fox:, JC, Ferry, ·M.M. Hollmann, A. Yaisawarng, s. Lewis, B. Spinelli, J. Chang., Y. Milillo, F. Milillo, F. Mace, S- Mil.ler, A.T. Feffer, A. Hansen, E. Berk, S- Wal.ker, M. Halliday, P. Barbanel., J. Taylor, A. DeBattista, N. Weiner, T. Stanhope, L. Weisse, C. Benefo, K.D- Ogawa, D. Williams, G. Fried. H. Seoer, M. F. Almstead, L- Hannay, D. Hedrick, J.N. DiTursi, D.J. Chilcoat, A- M. Hanmt-Ehsani, K Feder:ici, J. Khan, Y. Anderson, T. Faircbild, W. Baker, R. Baker, R. Marr, J.M. Benefo, K.D. He:mmendinger,D Fatic, v. Wicks, F. Moyano, P. Ashman, T. D. Desarkar, C. Arnold, D. Manna, V, Pollack., L. Ogawa, D. McMullen, D. Pytel, B. Tobiessen, P. Lauzon, R. Laplante, C. Anderson, J. Feng, J.P. Traver, C. Tomljanovich, M. McCarty, T. Traver, c. Sl.ade, L. Stevenson, R. Pavli.c, E. Chang, Y. Batson, C.R. Garver, J.I. Mace, S. Berk, S. Barbanel/Reich Scullion, J. S Taylor, A. Roy, R. Johnson, B. Benack, S. Donaldson, G. Burns, D.J. Hasha.mova, Y. S. Moyaoo, P. Matthew, L. Canavan, M. Tann, H. Gmelch, s. Chu-LaGraff, Q. Smith, G. Sargent/Ghaly Mafi, M. Toher, M. Motahar, E. Rafferty, M.C. Hassib, E. Heinegg, P. Holloc:her, K. Foroughi, A.R. Sargent/Ghaly Brown, c. Marso, L.J. Ruboni.s, A. Nydegger, R. Spaulding, D. Foroughi, A.R. Marso, L.J. Williams, G. Spa.llhol~:, L. Chen/Mattheyes Gajjar, J. ENS*lOO*Ol ESC*069*52 GMI*226*51 GMI*271*51 Environmental Studies ~epics Engineering Economics Marketing Research Techniques Legal/Tax Aspcts of Partnrship Helmer, w. Gr:i.!JgS, F. Dasa.rkar, C. Valle, K. OLIN 204 BAIL 100 BAIL 312 BU'I'R 3 0 0 ST:ZJI J.O 6 HUMN 213 HUMN 019 SSCI 104 SSCI 014 OLIN 306 NWSE 116 BAIL 201 BAIL 201 OLIN 305 Ht:l'MN' 115 BAIL 207 COLC ATJD ssc:r 103 OLIN 115 ARTS 215 NWSE 210 BA.IL 102 NWSE 114 HUMN U2 BAIL 300 BA.IL l:OO BtJTR 109 ARTS 215 OLIN 106 BA.IL 201 ARTS 109 OLIN 306 OLIN 307 NWSE 114 OLIN 102 HUMN 014 SSCI 012 HUMN 008 HUMN 010 NWSE 222 OLIN 107 HUMN 116 HUMN 116 NWSE 303 SSCI 103 NWSE 116 NWSE 114 NWSE 222 HUMN 008 HUMN 014 SSCI 012 OLIN 115 HUMN 019 NWSE 222 ARTS 215 ARTS 313 BAIL 207 BAIL 201 SSCI 012 S~ZH 106 OLIN 106 SSCI lOSE OLIN 306 SSCI 014 SSCI 103 OLIN 306 HUMN 117 HUMN 112 NWSE 114 NWSE 210 ARTS 210 OLIN 307 HlJMN 010 SSCI 104 NWSE 112 HlJMN 016 BAIL 106 BAIL 102 OLIN i07 BAIL 312 BAIL 300 BUTR 109 K1JMN 012 K1JMN 008 ARTS 215 BAIL 106 ARTS 313 STZ!l 106 sscr 012 NWSE 116 OLIN 106 BUTR 109 HUMN 116 HUMN 019 SSCI 103 NWSE 222 HUMN 115 OLIN 332 sscr 014 OLIN' 106 SSCI 104 SSCI 105 BAIL 300 BAlL 312 BAlL 100 SSCI 014 SSCI 105 HU'MN 019 OLIN 307 STZH 106 NWSE 116 OLIN 110 OLIN 332 OLIN 307 J!UMN 116 Tuesday, March 14, 2000 ~ 7:00-9:00 PM GMI*210*51 Financial Accounting HSS*256*51 .Group Prac Admn: Sem &. Practcm STA*202*51 Statistical Methods Wednesday. March 15, 2000- 9:30~11:30 AM AMU*021*01 Beethoven to Bernstein ANT*026*01 Youth &. Popular Culture ECO*Ol2\02 Introduction to Economics EGL*Ol9*01 Major English Authors 1 ENS*033\01 Energy I ESC*02l*01 Mechanics I w/Lab FRN*011*01 FRN*l32*01 GER*OlO*Ol HST*ll3*«!l1 JPN*l21*01 LAT*l37*01 MER*0'50*01 MER*062*01 MTH*057*01 MTH*099*01 :Basic French 2 Survey:French Lit 2 :B·a.sic German 1 Popular Culture & Amer Hst Intermediate Ll'apanese 2 Latin Epic Reat Transfer Analysis Thermodynamics 2 Game Theory Intro:Logic &. Set Theory MTH*l24*01 Geometry PHY*042*01 Ideas of Modern Physics PHY*046*01 Principles -of Sound &. Music PHY*051*01 Int Modern Physics w/Lab PSC*048*01 East Europe Politics & Justice PSY*032*01 Sensation &. Perception PSY*047*0l. Health Psychology RUS*l21*01 Intermediate Russian 2 SPN*Ol0*01 Basic Spanish 1 SPN*l21*01 Intermediate S~anish 2 SPN*l2l*02 Intermediate Spanish 2 Wednesday, March 15, 2DOO- 1:30-3:30 PM ANT*OlO*Ol Cultural Anthropology ANT*Ol0*02 Cultural Anthropology EER*060*01 Discrete SystaEB w/Lab ITL*l20*01 Intermediate Italian 1 MER*035*0l Engineering Reliability MER*l60*01 Thermal/Fluid Sys Design w/Lab MTH*011A*Ol Calculus with Precalc 1 MTH*OllB*Ol Calculus with Precalc 2 MTH*OllB*02 Calculus with Precalc 2 MTH*Ol2*01 Calculus 2 MTH*Ol2*02 Calculus 2 MTH*015*01 Calculus 3 MTH*Ol5*02 Calculus 3 MTH*017*01 Calculus 4:Integra1 Vector MTH*OSB*Ol Appls of Math to Eco 1 PSC*Oll*01 Intro to American Politics Wednesday, March 15, 2000 - 7:00-9:00 PM GMI*217*51 Financial Management GMI*221*51 Managerial Economics GMI*251*51 Managing People &. Teams in Org HSS*280*51 Hlth Sys Adm, Planning & Pol STA\201*52 Intro to Probability & Statist Thursday, March 16, 2000 - 9:30-11:30 AM BIO*OlO*Ol Heredity/Evol(Ecology w/Lab BI0*012*01 Ce1ls &. OrganLsms w/Lab BIO*l50*01 Evolutionary Biology BIO*l54*01 Developmental Biology w/Lab CER*l32*01 Reinforced Concrete Desg w/Lab CER*l60*01 Transportation Engg w/Lab FRN*010*01 Basic French 1 GER*Oll*Ol GER*011*02 HEB*011*01 HST*049*01 ITL*OlO*Ol JPN*Oll*Ol MER*033*01 MTH*l27*01 Basic German 2 Basic German 2 Basic Hebrew 2 Europe Between Two Wars Basic Italian 1 Basic Japanese 2 Fluid Mechanics I w/Lab Numerical Methods PSY*OlO*Ol Intro to Psychology PSY*025*01 Experimental Psych w/Lab SPN*Oll*Ol Basic Spanish 2 Thursday, March 16, 2000- 1:30~3:30 PM CER*l43*01 Foundations & Constr w/Lab CLS*060*01 Death in the West CSC*037*01 Structured Programming CSC*l44*01 Functional Programming EC0*142*01 Problams in Macroeconomics EC0*151*01 Monetary Economics EC0*251*51 Monetary Economics PHL*048*01 Philosophy &. Cnrrent Affairs PSC*071*01 Civil Rights & Civil Liberties PSC*074*0l Political Campaign in America PSY*020*01 Statistical Methods/Psychology PSY*03l*Ol • .bnormal Psychology SOC*Ol0*02 Intro to Sociology STA*201*51 Intro to Probability & Statist Thursday, March 16, 2000 - 4 :30·6:30 PM CHM*032*01 Organic Chemistry 2 w/Lab CHM*032*02 Organic Chemistry 2 w/Lab Thursday, March 16, 2000 7:00 9:00PM ANT*080*51 North Americ~ Indians GMI*241*51 Systems Analysis &. Simulation GMI*245*51 Management Information Systems GMI*250*5l Organizational Theory HSS*20l*51 Health Systems Management Friday, March 17 2000 9:30 11:30 AM CSC*OlO*Ol Computers & Computing CSC*Ol0*02 Computers & Computing CSC*Ol0*03 Computers & Computing PHY*017*0l Matter in Motion w/Lab PHY*017*02 Matter in Motion w/Lab PHY*Ol7*03 Matter in Motion w/Lab PHY*017*04 Matter in Motion w/Lab PHY*017*05 Matter in Motion w/Lab SPN*l20*01 Intermediate Spanish 1 SPN*l20*02 Intermediate Spanish 1 Fr1day, March 17, 2000 1:30 3:30 PM CHM*010*01 Fund Chemistry 1 w/Lab CHM*Ol0*02 Fund Chemistry 1 w/Lab CHM*010*03 Fund Chemistry 1 w/Lab CHM*Ol2*01 Fund Chemistry 2 w/Lab CHM*012*02 Fund Chemistry 2 w/Lab Arnold, D. Kleinbauer, R. Schmee, J. McMullen, D. Condry, I.R- Fried, H. Ste·venson, R. Shanebrook, J. Kea:t, W.D. Chilcoat, A. M. Thomas, W. Ke~lenter, S. Sterngass, J. Khan, Y. llo~lmann, A. Som, A. Wicks, F. Zwicker, w. Johnson, B. Roy, R. DeBattista, N. Khosropour, R. McWhirter, iJ. Hisl.ope, R. Santana, M. Rieg, T.S. Hashamova, Y. S. Osuna, M. C~acho-Platero, L. Martinez, V. Fo:x, J.W. Fo:x, J.W. Ga.jjar, J_ Federici, J. Blinn, M.P. Anderson, A.M. Reynolds, P.R. Zimmerman, X. Zimmerman, X- Cervone, D.P. Cervone, D-P- Bick, T. Zwicker, W. Niefie1d, S. Fairchild, W. Oxley, Z.M. Ashman, '1' .D. Lcunbrinos, J- Nydegger, R.V. Manna, V. Schmee, J. Brown, G. Rice, S.K. Boyer, J. Boyer, B. Mafi, M. Wolfe, F.A. Batson, C.R. 1Cellenter, s_ Kellenter, S. ALmog, M. Hansen, E. Federici, J. Wojnovich, M. Shanebrook, J. Cervone, D-P. Ri.eg, T.S. Burns, D. J. Martinez, V. Ghaly, A. 'Ioher, M. Hannay, D. l!emmendinger, D. Motahar, E- Rafferty, M.C. Rafferty, M.C. Brown, R.M. Underwood, J. Brown, C. Greenberg, S. Rubonis, A. Kaplan, I. Bowman, R.A. Adrian, J.C. Kahley-Wolf, M. Schaefer, J. G. Bowman, R.A. Cossey, D. Strosberg, M. Quinn, F. Almstead, L. Glynn, M. Keller, D. Jones, C. Koopman, R. Koopman, R. Surman, R.A. Mal.eki, S. Mosquera, D. Mosquera, D. Martinez, L.J. Hagerman, M. llagerman, M. Anderson, J_ Kayes, D. JIUMN 112 IIUMN 014 OLIN 306 ARTS 215 SSCI 012 sscr 104 HUMN 008 NWSE 116 NWSE 205 HilMN ()14 HUMN 016 HUMN' 019 BAIL 207 HUMN 010 HUMN 213 NWSE 114 NWSE 222 BAIL 106 BAIL 102 BAIL 104 OLIN 107 NWSE 112 NWSE 328 ARTS 109 BAIL 201 BAIL 312 HUMN 012 OLIN 106 STZH 106 ARTS 210 OLIN 115 OI.IN 115 NW'SE 114 HUMN 116 OLIN 307 NWSE 205 BAIL 106 BAIL 207 BAIL 207 SSCI 104 SSCI 104 BAIL 102 BAlL 104 HUMN 019 OLIN 1.07 SSCI 012 HIJMN 014 HIJMN 117 HlJMN 116 HlJMN 019 OLIN 307 BAIL 207 HUMN 019 OLIN 106 NWSE 116 BUTR 109 OLIN 102 SSCI 012 SSCI 014 SSCI 014 HUMN 016 SSCI 103 HUMN 117 HUMN 010 NWSE 222 HUMN 014 BAIL 312 BAIL 300 HUMN 008 BUTR 300 HUMN 008 OLIN 106 NWSE 116 HUMN 213 SSCI 010 SSCI 010 HUMN 116 SSCI 110 BAIL 106 BAIL 300 BAIL 312 SSCI 104 HUMN 014 OLIN 115 OLIN 115 SSCI 110 OLIN' 307 OLIN 306 HUMN 019 HUMN 014 OLIN 306 OLIN 307 OLIN 106 NWSE 114 NWSE 116 NWSE 300 NWSE 210 STZH 106 BAIL 104 BAIL 104 OLIN 115 OLIN 115 OLIN 115 SSCI 104 SSCl 104 http:/ I concordy. union.edu ' ! • il ! l I

le - - I ,, , \ I I I I I I I I I r ,. f I - f u •women's. Williams7 Union OJ RPI7Union3 . · .. ··-. ~ c.· RPI 61 Union 31/ .. : : .. '\ .. WilliamSmith 71 Union 58 Skating Dutchmen Drop Fifth Straight Unio.n. Clings to _One-Game Lead Over Brown in Playoff Race byD.J.Book Staff Writer After a tough weekend OJn the road, .the Skating Dutchmen a:re left with four more games to clincll a playoff position. As of now, Uni()n owns the fmal ECAC playoffbirth, and the lead over Brown University has dwindled to a single game .. It's fitting that Union's last game ofthe season will be played at Brown, and it may just come down to that game to determine who deserves th.e final playoff spot. Two of Union' .s fmal four regular Season games willl)e played at home. Last Friday night, Februa.JY 18, the Skating Dutchmen traveled to Cornell University to take on\Tlte Big Red.\ Cornell won thoe frrst meeting, which was played on No- vember 6, between these two teams in overtime by a score of 1-1 at Achilles Rink. Union found themselves down 1-0 only two minutes into tbe fust period, but they battled back as Sophomore Defenseman Charles Simard ~cored a power-play .goal to even the score for the Dutch- men. Simard's blast from the point found the back of the net, and the only assist was credited to senior forward Ryan Campbell. The goal was Simard's first-ever collegiate goal fo:r Union. The assist by Campbell increased his point-scor- ing streak to five straight games. C<>rnell scored three straight goals tOo go up 4-1 until Union fi- nally mounted the comeback. With just under four minutes to go in the third period, Sophomore For- ward Jeff Wilson scored his sixth goal of the season, his first power- play tally, to bring the Dutchmen to withi:n two. Assists were cred- ited to Jt.mior Forward Jason Ralph and S()phomore Forward Jeff Hutchins. About three minutes later, Union scored another power-play goal off the stick of Senior Defenseman Jeff Sproat, which was his second power-play tally on the year. It was Sproat's fifth goal of the season with Ralph and Hutchins, once again, recording File Photo Randy Dagenias dears the puck or..~t afthe Union zone. assists. With less than 30 seconds to play, however, Union could not rmd the back of the net a fourth time, and as a result,. fell by the fi- nal score of 4-3. Sophomore Goaltender Brandon Snee recorded 41 saves on 45 shots for the Dutchmen. Union mustered only 16 shots on net the entire game. The Dutchman power-play, which has been struggling as of late, capitalized on three of eight man-advantage opportunities, while Cornell converted two of eight. The game was witnessed by 3, 777 fans, which was quite a turn- out. On Saturday night, Union faced- off against Colgate University. The Skating Dutchmen surprised the Red Raiders back on Novem- ber 5, Union's first home game of the season, by winning, 8-6. This game, however, was a different story. Colgate built a5-0 leadmid- way through the second period and cruised to a 9-3 trouncing of the Dutchmen. Sproat scored his sixth goal of the season unassisted in the sec- ond period for Union. Sophomore Forward Drew Taylor scored his fourth of the season with assists to Wilson and Sproat early on in the third period. Union's fmal tally came off the stick of Wilson, his seventh ofthe year, with assists to Taylor and Hutchins. Snee turned away 32 of the 40 shots that he faced, and Freshman Goaltender Mark Wise saved three of four. Union was out-shot, 44-28, and the power-play failed to convert on four chances. Colgate scored three of their nine goals on the power- play. The Dutchmen were called for 34 minutes in penalties in the game, including Freshman Defenseman Randy Dagenais's fourteen min- utesand Simard'seight minutes in the \Sin Bin.\ Union clearly had defensive breakdowns in their own end in both games. The Dutchmen need to put both of these aspects of the game to- gether in order to win at the Divi- sion One level. Head Coach Kevin File Photo Jeff Sproat and the Dutchmen will face off against St. Lawrence next weekend. Sneddon agreed. He said, \We're struggling defensively, we lack confidence in our own end, and we're getting out-worked. We need to address these things im.- d . 1 \ me tate y. Sneddon also talked briefly about Brown University, who is one game behind Union for the fi- nal playoff spot. He stated,. \I don't really care what they do, we need to focus on our game and look ahead. We're looking at the teams ahead of us right now, and we want to move up (in the standings).\ When asked about which goaltender will start this coming weekend, Sneddon replied~ ••1 haven't made the fmal decision yet. Mark [Wise] hasplayedwelllately and has been a positive influence to the team. Brandon [Snee] rnay be a little bit fatigued, which makes it harder for him to play each game from start to ftnish. Right now I don't know.\ Best of luck to the team as they play St. Lawrence and Clarkson Universities this coming weekend, February 25-26, at home at Achilles Rink.

.e u Men's . A :Quick Look at, .. :. this Week's Scores.·.~.- ~()ckey · Cornell4 Union3f Colgate 9lJnion 3 Williams 711 nion 0/ RPI7Union3 Basketball Union 65RPI 64/ Union 82B.obart7~ RPI61 Union31/ William Smith 71 Union 58 Skating Dutchmen Drop Fifth Straight Union Clings to One-Game Lead Over Brown in Playoff Race byD.J. Book Staff Writer After a tough weekend on the road. the Skating Dutchmen are left with four more games to clinch a playoff position. As of now, Union o1.vns the final ECAC playoffbirth, and the lead over Brown University has dwindled to a single game. It's fittirtg that Union's last game of the season will be played at Brown, and it may just come down to that game to determine who deserves the final playoff spot. Two ofUnion's final four regular season games will be played at home. Last Friday night, February 18, tlle Skating Dutchmen traveled to Cornell University to take on \The Big Red.\ Cornell won the first meeting, which was played on No- vember 6, between these two teams in overtime by a score of 2-1 at Achilles Rink. Union found themselves down 1-0 only two minutes into the first period, but they battled back as Sophomore Defenseman Charles f Simard scored a power-play goal to even the score for the Dutch- men. Simard's blast from the point found the back of the net, and the only assist was credited to :senior forward Ryan Campbell. The goal was Simard's first-ever coil egiate goal for Union. The assist by Campbell increased his point-scor- ing streak to five straight games. Cornell scored three straight goals to go up 4-1 until Union fi- nally mounted the comeback. With just under four minutes to go in the third period, Sophomore For- ward Jeff Wilson scored his sixth goal of the season, his firstpower- play tally, to bring the Dutchmen to within two. Assists were cred- ited to Junior Forward Jason Ralph and Sophomore Forward Jeff Hutchins. About three minutes later, Union scored another power-play goal off tl1e stick of Senior Defenseman Jeff Sproat, which was his second power-play tally on the year. It was Sproat~s fifth goal of the season with Ral:ph and Hutchins, once again, rec<Ording Filt! Photo Randy Dagenias clears the puck out of the Union zo11e. assists. With less than 30 seconds to play, however, Union could not find th-e back of the net a fourth time, a11d as a result, fell by the fi- nal scOJre of 4-3. Sopl:J.om<Jfe Goaltender Brandon Snee recorded 41 saves on 45 shots for the Dutchmen. Union mustered only 16 shots on net the entire game. The Dutchman power-play, which has been struggling as of late, c<tpitalized on three of eight man-ad vantage opportunities, while Cornell converted two of eight. 'The game was witnessed by 3, 777 f411s, which was quite a tum- out. On S.aturday night, Union faced- off ag«~inst Colgate University. The Skating Dutchmen surprised the Red Raiders back on Novem- ber 5, Union's first home game of the sea.son, by winning, 8-6. This game, however, was a different story. Colgate built a 5-0 lead mid- way through the second period and cruised to a 9-3 trouncing of the Du.tchrnen. Sproat scored his sixth goal of the season unassisted in the sec- ond pe-riod for Union. Sophomore ForwaTd Drew Taylor scored his fourth of the season with assists to Wilson and Sproat early on in the thil'dperiod. Union's fmal tally came ()ff the stick of Wilson, his seventh of the year, with assists to Taylorrand Hutchins. Snee turned away 32 of the 40 shots that he faced, and Freshman Goaltender Mark Wise saved three of four. Union was out-shot, 44-28, and the powet·-play failed to convert on four cbances. Colgate scored three of thejr nine goals on the power- play. The Dutchmen were called for 34 minut=;s in penalties in the game, inclu~ing Freshman Defenseman Randy Dagenais's fourteen min·- utes and Simard's eight minutes in the \S.in Bin.\ Union clearly had defensive breakdowns in their own end in both games. The: Dutchmen need to put both of the:se aspects of the game to- gether in order to win at the Divi- sion One level. Head Coach Kevin File Photo Jeff Sproat am!tJ11? Dutchmen will face off against St. Lm1:rence next weekend. Sneddon agreed. He said, \We're struggling defensi'Vely, we lack confidence in our -{)Wn end, and we're getting out-worked. We need to address these things im- mediately.\ Sneddon also !«~Eked briefly about Brown University, who is one game behind U11ion for the fi- nal playoff spot. He stated, \I don't really care what they- do, we need to focus on our g:ame and look ahead. We're looking at the teams ahead of us right no'W, and we want to move up (in the standings).\ When asked <tb out which goaltender will sta..rt this coming weekend, Sneddon replied, \I haven't made the f!naJ decision yet. Mark [Wise] has played well lately and has been a positive influence to the team. Brancl~n [Snee] may be a little bit fatigue-d., which makes it harder for him to play each game from start to finish. Right now I don't know.\ Best of luck to tile team as they play St. Lawrence and Clarkson Universities this coming weekend, February 25-26, at home at Achilles Rink. Union's. \Three Jeffs\ each ecorded three-point weekends. JeffWilsQn(:!'goals, 1 assist),Jeff Sproat (Z,l ), and JeffHutchins (0,3) all recotded at least one point in oth games this past weeke~d ... Ryan Catnpbell 's five-game point scoring streak,' which included two goals: all,d. tP+e~ assists,, ended SaturdaY. agll:inst Colgate, but it as. the ·IoliSest · p oint\scoring streak: fQr (\ilY' Skatm.g Dutchmep. this season.,. After 27, games · layed, .. Jeff Sp~oat and Jason tph are tied f()t the team lead in oint~. with. twenty .... · Eight differen.t Dutchnlen·have at least elevenp()in.t$ •.• Braliaon Snee has lay-ed~!)ver~J,S30 ;tninutes this $easo~,' \v:hicl;t ·~• )nl)r~ • tlla.n · a~y <>tJi~r aQaltc;~4~.ilithe·eQAc. :. ~·: ' -- .. -_-->\',. 1.': ::: ·: ; .. ··-- .' . ·•... . ' . . . '

Women's Hockey Ends Season Dutchmen Advanc,e t:o Semis by:Dnid:C. Brooks Editor-i 11'-Chief went on a 12-2 run that pulled them within one, 56-55, and took the lead, 64--63, with 57 seconds left as they scored on a steal and lay-up. However, Union was too much for the Engineers. Woldeyesus led the team with 17 points, while Rodgers had 16 points as Galletta connected for 14 points. Copelalld and Galletta each grabbed a team,.;high five rebounds. on their I;)Wn little run before findjng the.gametied at 79 with 1:55 to go, Hobart scored on their next possession, and o:n Union's next drive, Rodgers had theballstolen. The Statesmen thea missed a shot, but gtabbed their own rebound with 40 seconds remaining. \We were waiting to foul the right rnan.\ Said Montana following the game, \With 13 seconds left,.C.J. fouled who we Wanted an;d luckily he missed both,\ With 13 seconds remaining, the Dutchmen pushed the ball upcourt. \We wanted: to hit Aaron on a ball screen on the weak side.\ said Montana. However, Jason Manning hit Galletta on the top onthekey. With three defenders in his face and three seconds !'eft, he put up a shot. \I though I had ~ good look and .time. was running out.\ The baH hit nothing but the bottom of the net. Union found themselves hdlding an 82-81lead. Hobart tried to get another shot off but was called for traveling as the fmal hom sounded. Th.e Dutchmen won, 82- 81. by Rathel Bukowski Sports Editor The Skating Dutchwomen of Union College ended their season on a positive note this past week- end, and have high hopes for the upcoming years. Th~ir record for the 1999-2000season is an inaccu- rate depiction of how much work the women have put into this chal- lenging sport and the immense im- provement of the squad over the duration of their existence. The Dutch women were at home in Achilles Rink over the weekend as they took on ECAC Division Three powerhouses Williams Col,.. lege and RPI. Williams and RPI are currently in a five-way tie for third place in the ECACwithConference records of 12-5-0 and 11-4-2 and overall recorcls of 15-7-0 and 12- 10-2, respectively. Union would have to battle hard and play com- petitively to stay in these two dif- ficult games. A rocky start in their game against Williams on Saturday hurt Union tremendously and they were unable to regroup after the end of the first period. Williams scored three goals in the first fifteen min- utes of the game with 17 shots on net. The second period did not get any better for Union as the defense let in three more Williams' goals, making the score 6-0 and putting the Dutchwomen in a compromis- ing position. The final goal of the second period, coming at 18:45, was a power play goal that just slipped into tlle net behind Senior Goalie Michelle Tardiff. Union was under pressure to score in the third period in order to prevent the Williams shutout. The Dutchwomen, however, failed to put one in the net and Williams scored once more with five minutes left in the game to make the final score 7-0. The next day Union took to the Last Tl.!esda:y evening, the ice against RPI in a rematch of a Shooting Dutchm1.e:n traveled to game held onJanuary3,.2000, that Williams College ia a non .. leag:ue ended in~m 8-1 RPI victory. The game. The Dutchmen found Dutchwomen were out for revenge themselves dovv11' 39-27 the half. and they carne out strong immedi- Union, who has P'IDved to beat their ately. Beth Gabriel scored an un- second half jin\ rallied in the final assisted goal at 1 :45 in the frrstpe- 20 minutes. They went on a 16-1 riodandfoarminuteslater,Cathie run and tied t:he game at 55. Larsen scored a power play goal However, withuader a minute in the which was assisted by C11ptain game, Williams.llita three-pointer Melissa Johnson and Ailsa that would prov~ to be the game Currirriing tomakethescote2..:0. winner. Theyweli1tfmtowin64-61. The Dut{)hwomenscoring streak Sophomore A:a:r()n Galletta led the would end there, however, as RPI scoring attack with 18 points while put six unanswered goals behind. classmate C.J. R.odgers had 16 Tardiff, four of which came in the points along wi tall boards. Junior second period. Minu:tes before the Ryan Marray had 15 points on the close of the second period, night. Cumming and Johnson paired up The Dutcl!rnen hosted again to make the score 5-3, with Rensselaer and H()bart last week- the goal being accredited to end. The games marked the end of Cumming. the regular seasDrr. Finding them- The third period consisted of a11 selves in sixth place in the UCAA, array of penalties which hurt the Union desperatdy needed the two Dutch women and the Engineers wins to have a c!hance of hosting a alike. RPI amassed 12 penalty min- frrstround game in th.e UCAA Tour- utes while the final tally for Union nament. was eight minutes in the box. The . The Dutchmen had lost to the Dutch women's Gabriel was in a bit Engineers in T!()y by four points in of a scuffle with Freshman early January. lhe home court Defenseman Cathy Hotchkiss from would prove to be an advantage. RPI midway through the thirdpe- With 38 seconds left in the game., riodandboth womenreceivedtwo- the Sho()ting Dutchmen found two minute penalties for roughing. themselves do\Wll 64-63. Rodgers Spectator Katrina Ten tor noted, hit a cutting Galletta for a backdoor \At one point, therewere two play- lay-up w :hichput the Dutchmen up ers from each team in the penalty 65-64. Senie~r captain Dave box. It was strange to see so few Copeland grabbed a rebound with players out on the ice.\ two sec~nds lefftt<J secure Union's During four on four hockey, win. Tne Engineers missed three Ailsa Cumming scored the fmal shots in the final ten seconds of the goal of the game and, in essence, game. the fmal goal of the Union Skating Union had a seven\point lead, 50- Dutch women Hockey Season, end- 43, with 12:48 left after a pair ef ing the game in a score of7 -3. threes by se nio.r captain Zen a The Dutch women finished their Woldeyesus. R()dgers then hit two season with an overall record of 4- lay-ups ~s the Dutchmen held an 19-0 and a Confere11ce record of 4- ll.,point lead, 5'143, with 11 :27left 13-0. Although they did not make in the game. T!J.e R..ed Hawks then The win was a step in the right direction for the Dutchmen, but they still needed a win Saturd~1.y against Hobart to hope for a home game in the tournament. · With 11:25 to go in the game; Union controlled a 68 to 51 lead over the Statesmen. Hol:>art then went on a rally and many thought Union would again falter in the second half. The teatn: thought :differently. Hobart pulled with two points, 81-79 with 14 seconds left in the game. After an amazing steal by Murray with four seconds left, the. Dutchmen would hit a free throw and walk off with an 82-79 win over the Statesmeil.. Galletta led the team with 25 points. Woldeyesus and Murray had 16 and 15 points respectively. Rodgets had nine boards and 10 points, The Shooting Dutchmen finished with a 5-7 record in the UCAA. The record tied them with Hobart for fourthplace. However, Union won the tie-breaker because Unionhad beaten Hobart in their two meetings. The fourth place finish meant Union would host a first round playoff game against Hobart Tuesd~y night. In the opening game of the UCAA playoff, Union played the Statesmen for .the third time this season. Down 45-42 at the half, the Dutchmen fought their way backtoa64-61leadwith 13:051eft in the game. Hobart then went on a tear, holding a 76-69 lead with 7:25 left in the game, Union went Rodgers led the team in scoring with 25 along with, 14 rebounds while Galletta had 20, including the three most important points this season. Freshman Adam Polansky stepped up and had 14 points. The Dutchmen will travel to Hamilton tomon:ow the play the first ranked Continentals in the Semi-Finals of the UCAA Tournament. Ask if they can beat Hamilton, Montana replied, \Absolutely AROUND THE RIM: Senior captain Zena Woldeyesus was namedUCAA \Guard ofthe Week.\ In,the three fmal games of the season Woldeyesus hit 14 for 20 field goals including an impres- sive 7 for 11 from three-point land. He had 38 points, nine rebounds, six assists and two steals in the three game stretch. the playoffs this year, their hopes 1---------------~---------------------- are high for next season and the future looks bright f()r this promis- ing young team. Women's Basketball The U11itm Co !lege Shooting Dutch women endedtheir season with two disappionti11g lossesto RPI and William Smith Collegeby score~ rifo I -31 and 71-58, respectively. Despite these defeats, there were a number of Dutchwomen who tumed in outsta11di11g p~1'[iJrmances. In the game against RPJ, Katie Smith l1ad 15 points and Erin MacNamara netted ten along with grahbilzg se-ven rebounds. . The DJttcfnvort~eiJ. 's game against William Smith began with both teams remaining relatively close in score, but then William Smith hrewthe game open just before the half and the Dutchwomen never had a chance to catch up. Heather Bennett contributed 15 points to the team effort, while Leah Oliveri had 13 points, Smith had 1 I and MacNamara had I 0 points arul se;Vell 1:elwunds. . Elizabeth Daiglc/CP Cally Woodard chases the puck down the ice. On Tr.tesday. t!le- Dutchwomen took on Clarkson University in the first round of the UCAA playoffs. The Dutchwomen emergerl victori{)lus!;,y a score of 7 4-47. Smith netted 17 points for Union wbile MacNamara contributed 15 to the final score. T'),e wom(!!ll will emerge to the second round of the playoffi where they will play Willianl Smith College at William Smith o1r Frfday 11igh:t.

ts 1re 55 ~xt ~xt ot, nd 7V:e n.\ ne, led he His ~ed to the 1!1.. hi:t 'ith lnd tot. md 1all the ?es ied vas om S2- ing a.ds the :his sky to the the <\.A 1eat ed, ~sus the sof for res- md. 1ds, the r/CP mith rned long then rther !dlO 1m en final 'liam Sports (ll:ltlttnrm.ensis • February 24-, 2000 • Page 21 In the Paint: The Latest in College Basketball by Ben Yaffee Staff Writer It's a No Brainer Last Tuesday, Minnesota Gophers~ center Joe Pryz;billa was named Big Ten player ofthe week after scoring 33poi,nts and helping the Gophers' upset # 10 lndiana. It was an extremely bright moment for a program that ha,s had little to celebrate lately. In the off-season, coachCl~mHaskins was forced to resign after it was learned that the basketball progtam was involved in severe academic scandals. 'The university brought in Don Monson :from Gonzaga, and he was given the impossible job of right- irtg the ship, Pryzbilla was a bright spot that could not have come at a better time. After an article in Sports Illus- trated and Pryzbilla' s career game against Indiana, Pryzbilla and the Gophers were again becoming a household name. Then, only a day after Pry:zbilla was named player of the week, .and the same day SI hailed him as the \Glittering Golden Boy,\ Pryzbilla was suspended for academic reasons. Pryzbilla had maiutained a GP A higher than 2.0 and was eligible to play under the NCAA ru:les, but his failure to attend class led to his suspension by coach Monson. Monson s<l,id that he had given his star player several warnings,. but Pryzbilla continued to regularly tniss class. Pryzbilla contested that it was a miscommunica.tion be- tween himself and Monson. Ap- parently, Monson did not state clear~y enough the im,portance of going to class. Pryzbilla went 'On to say that if ClemHasldns had still been coach- ing, he would n:ot have 'been sus- pended. He probably came short of adding, that ifHaskins was .still coaching, not_ ()nly wouLd he not have had to go to class, he would have had somebody else write his papers. ·Since the su~pension., Pryzbilla has stopped going todassand has declared himself eligible for the NBAdraft. While many question Monson's decision to suspend his best player, the decision was. a no brainer. Mons()n'sjob is to bring respectability back to a troubled program. If the players are not committed to both winning and restoring Minnesota's name, th.en they should not be playing for Minne- sota. Monson was not looking for a reason to suspend the team's leader in points, rebounds, and blocks. It was made un~tvoidable because Pryzbilb'Was still playing by the Clem Haskin:s' s roles. All season long,. Pryzbilla was quickto end talk tltathe would turn pro after the sea.so11. He had long expressed his des.cire to play four years of college basketball and help the Gophers' r~turn to the fi- nal four. He eve11praised college life. In the Sports Illustrated article, Pryzbilta was qu.oted as saying, \You're supposetltCJ have the best time ofyourlife i.n college.\ Ap- parently, he did rJ()t learn this in class. · Conference W:!ttch. WiththeNCA.A.Aournament get- ting c;lcser, it's time to take a look at what conferences will be most widely represented. This week, we '11 look at the Big East. While there is currenily O().team from the Big East in the f()p ten, expect to see six teams fmd their way into the tield of64. Srraeuse, UConn, andStoJohn's Sh()u)dmake it with- out question. Alii. three will have over 2~ wins a11:d already have re- cordedseveralkeynon-tonference wins. BaFring disaster, they are locks. Seioll. Hall also seems like a sure thing. They broke into the top 25 for tl!e first time since 1993, and they are tied for fust with the most conference wins. While their non- Save 50% to 75% everyday on the brands you wear I oorlfltl.all ttl~ll]r.ll!ll. flml'.!!!i 'ib2i ~61!o'®.'QtM~ ~ ld\1\~tr.ilU!lll I ~i!JFI.ir•et$ ~li~ !~ai:W!Cl!m 2{lJ(l)«Jl L - - ,._ ---- - Come c.heck out what a true outlet is all about. 30-32 Front ~tre.et, Ballston Spa Call 885-6634 or 884-9742 for simpie direetiGn.s conference schedule was weak, they should win 20+ games and make the post-season. The fifth team that should repre- sent the Big East will be Miami. While they struggled early on, they have had an impressive Sig East .conference season, going 9-3. They have had some bumps along the road, including losses to Loui- siana Lafayette and Illinois State, but they are :playing solid basket- ball in the second halfof the sea- son and the committee places more weight Ol) a team's recent perfor- mance. The final team to represent the Big East will be Notre Dame. Few thought Notre Dame would be more than a .500 team, but Sophomore Troy Mlirphy has carried the team to several key wins. Murphy has led them to victories over Ohio State and a season sweep of UConn. Something tells me Murphy will carry them into the NCAA tournament as the conference's sixth and final repre- sentative. Game of the Week St. John's at Duke, February, 26 A rematch of las,t season's thrHler at the Garden. A late non- conference season game that should have an NCAA tourna- ment-type feel. Duke; which .has been largely untested in the ACC this year, should find tough com- petition frorn the Red Storm. The Red Storm, Jedbypointguard Erik: Barcley, always plays up to their competition. The game should be a high-scoring affair. Look for the Red Storm to pull off the upset. Player of the, Week ForwardMarkKarcher, Temple Owls In helping Temple break Cincinnati's 16-game winning streak, Karcher scored 28 points, including two three-pointers that helped sealthe win in the final min- utes. Karcher also helped limit player of the year candidate, Kenyon Martin, to just 13 points, well belowlus season average. The win was Temple's eleventh in a row and third straight against Cincin\ nati. The Owls knocked the Bearcats outofthe NCAA tourna- ment in the second round last sea- son.

. Page 22 • February 24, 2000 • Ol.lflU:lirmensis Sports Women's Swimming Fourth in New York State Kinjvzett aind Wittes Swim National B-Cuts by Lauren Wander Staff Writer One vveek ago today, the Union Women's Swim Team s tartcd their last meet of the season. After com- peting at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute all day Thursday, Friday, and Saturday in the NYSWCAA Championship Meet, the women finished fourth out of six. teen teams. Hamilt()n was the obvious winner, with Itluca in second place and Hartwick in third. \It was a con~ stant battle between Hartwick, Lemoyne (lJld us for fourth place,\ said Ju,nior Sarah Rankowitz. \But I'd rather get fourth to Hartwick than to Lemoyne.\ Though tile Dutchwomen were in second place after the first day, they ha<l slipped to fourth by the end of the meet. To keep the fourth place standing, the last relay of the meet, the 400 fre-e relay, needed to place higher tbtll their fifth place seed that their llJ.()rning race had placed them. Before the race, capta.ill Kerty Librandi told the restofiher relay not to \hold anything ba.ckin the race because we haven()tth:ing af· ter it. We shouldn't be a:l:5l.eto get out ofthe pool.\ Withe=very girl swimming at least a half a second faster than in the trials of the morn- ing, the relay team of Jtmior Rachel Miller, Librandi, Freshman LaUien Wander, an!d Senior Erin Wittes, was able to t(}uch out Lemoyne for fourth place in the event, and fourth place overall. Touching Qu,tthe Lemoyne telay was not Wittes; s greatest moment of the meet. That evening she had placed third in the 200 butterfly, an incredible a.ccomplishment. This was only the icing on the c.-.ke after her two first places in the 200 and 400Individllal Medleys, whl,'!re she swam B-cuttimes for Nationals in both events_ \'I krtew I was dose in the 400, but I never thought I'd make it in thee 200 IM!\ said an elated Wittes. Fellow ~eniot, Captain Clewis Kinnett, als:o swam a B-cuttim.e in the 400 IM,ber best event, getting second pface, Kinnett placed · eighth in bel' 200 1M: and200 breast- stroke. Pla-cing seventh in the 200 . breaststroke with Kinnl,'!tt, and six.th • in the 100 breaststroke, Junior Vic Dreier swam Lifetime bests in both events, wllile Freshman Lissie · Grace, thollgh not going her best times, was happy with her tenth and · eleventh places in both breastroke events. Dreier w~s also a part ofthe third · place 400 Medleyrelay on the frrst · day. Rankowitz, Dreier, Wittes and Millei mov-e<i from their fifth place seed to be tbe only Union. relay team to place in tlle top three. That same team place<! fourth in the 200-med- ley relay o~ the second day. Aaron Sellger/CP The second day of competition Captains Kerry Librandi and Clewis Kinnett have ll laugh between events this pr!ls-t was Unioa's weakest, despite the weekend in which these two women ended ti!eir swimming careers. one-two frnish in the 400 IM, be- ....-------------~----.,..----..,.--..,.......,..,.,..,..,....,..,...,.,...,...,.,..,,..,.,.......,.,....,.,.,..,.,..,..,....,......,...,.....,.............,......,-~ cause there were no Union swim- by MichaelS~ McGuire .· Copy Editor OnThursday,February 17;When catlleto Unioninaclub hockey !ma.tchup, itbecame cfear thatthey incapable of winning atAchil- Rink this year. J,'he visitol's: outonthe iCe withapositive. jmlll!ISf~ and one of their pl~yers \\\''~a1u be overheard connrtenting, s try and do better. than the squad did here.\ ; . It was not to be, :howeve~, and_ Union Men's Club Hockey defeated· their RPI ·counter ... 9\-4 in a decisively orie-sided. · . Union's superiorpuckhan- !Uld passing proved to be the · lrliHf..,.P.·nr.P: as the,fuept, often'hap- RJ>I men frequently· seemed • OIL the-ice~ , . - ' ' I' Eaily in the game,.RPI's offense nl)where to be found, and they. 11 1.wLu.a~;.:Y\.loirly one shot on goal in thirteenminu1es~ The same: not true for Union, however, Captain Craig Gilmore started the lscolrnn~· 3!40 into the. ftrst period. Slitt e;xtended the lead to 2~0 12:09 toplay in the period. Union•$ .. Pave.~ Chapin p1,1t a Jbolle·c:rus::tml.g· hit ~~.one of his lflo,u.:ncl~riiilg ~pp:one1,1ts midway ·.:.- ' . ' '• thr0}1SQ 1;tl~v,v~-tV\jo\-:_j:lf.lll.l ... ~ •. ,., ...... mers in the: :toO butterfly. \We lost a lot of possible points not having anyone swim that event and only having thr<ee girls place in the top eight on tb.a.t day,\ commented W ittes. Regardless, Wander and Librandi iinished tenth and fif- teenth, respectively, in the 200-yard freestyle, tenths of a second from breaking tile two-minute mark. Misias~ek ·sco:ceP.tb,e:.teamoz~r;:~lr~'','~.j).~id;,;jltijJkit~W;L~att>l;i;t:~:.te~lQ;':I;);yr goal -w. ·~-~. Cteil~.»Wl1utei:to't>1a~rsJ.t~l'/ G~dnev:wJcq(,li~<inm:l~~4:~.e~t finally P.• ~,c_K,eq In addition to this, the 800 free . relayofUbrandi, Kinnett, Wander ···and Witte~ placed sixth. '\That is one of the hardest relays because it was the tllird two hundred of the ~~a day for Kerry and Lauren> and Clewis and ljus1 went B-cuts in the 400 IM. tvr:ice,\ said Wittes. \But ;~~~, ;~I we got ollr seed, and that was all that mattered.\ Most oftlte girls moved up seeds · in the evemts that they swam, even the freshmen, impressing the rest y~QMJ~~;A oftheirteallinlates. \The freshmen {~~1(•1t1ll~'~'ol handled tlte meet very well,\ ob- served Rittlkowitz. \When I was a freshman,. I was a nervous wreck, ?ioi!~lQ).~,.,;.Q~lf:,l but they ..vere calm and didn't let :t>.e:ti:CH.t.:~&<~P,tf; ~wl1W~Wlty~e,,r{qj:~~~ji~9,i~~a:Q,(E the pressure get to them.\ Freshnun Sara Hamilton per- fanned beautifully despite her ex- ~;·~t::W;P...~i;~:~~~~~~~~f:;'l treme nervousness. Tluough her ,tlllliQ!II?.~~,dlitib nerves, sbe was able to swim her best tim<es in the 50 and 200 freestyle!; and broke a minute for the first time in the 100 freestyle on the last day. Also swimming best W~re~~~f¢~~~b~i:~(\ipii1)~P'i'~m,:., :~· · times in tlle 100 free were Miller and C\tt_heiJe~iJ:l flv~_.ii ,;]~tj!¢{1~~V:me~:l(~~~J~m~M#,tf(J Wander, Q/bO went 55.78 and 55 .86, respectiv-ely, in the consolation round on Saturday night to get twelfth and thirteenth places. Additionally, on Saturday night Union had three swimmers return,. ing to finals in the 200 backstroke. Rank.owitz~ going her best time of 2:14.58, placed seventh. Sopho- mores Sara Dietrich and Courtney Audet, who had both missed mak- ing it back to fmals on the first day in the lOObackstroke, :placed in the top twenty'-fonr in the 200. Audet went her best time by six .seconds to move from eighteenth to seven- teenth that night. That last n~ght b~gan with the fastest heat of the 1650 freestyle. Librandi, even though she did not swim a best time, placed sixth overall and Freshman Anna Sluzar placed seventeenth irt the momi11:g drop- ping twenty-one seconds to swim a lifetime best time. The tllird mile swimmer for Union, Sophomore Cori Verrill, not 0nly swam her fast- est mile, but she split her fastest 500and lOOOfreestyletirnes. \She always swims her best times .in those events when she swims the 1650,\ said Librandi. \It's an amaz- ing way to swim such a long event.\ Though not placing in the top 24 in any :individual events, Sopho- more Rachel Bukowski, Juniors Jen Hornsby and Mami Loiacono all swam best times in their events. And neither Verrill nor Librandi would have done so well in their long event if it were not for Loiacono, for they both agree that she is the \best counter in the whole league.\ On Thursday and Saturday dur- ing finals, the divers competed in the final rounds of the one and three meter boards. Sophomore · Sarah Ellman, competing at the same level as nationally ranked divers, placed six.th on the 1-meter board and fifth on the 3-meter board. Sophomore Katie Meloney placed in the top twenty-four on the three meter and Freshman Brinley Mooney dove for sixth in the same event. Fellow Freshman, Beth Fuller, significantly improved. from the beginning of the season when she had few dives to work with, placed in the top twenty-four on both boards using five new dives. Next year, since Hamilton will be out ofthe conference, there will be 1400 morepointsto go around be- tween the teams, as Hamilton racked up a tremend()US 1400 points en route to their first place fmish. The Dutchwomen, happy with their performance, will only im- prove from here, and are ready to see how they can do with those extra points. \I'm proud of every girl on the team,\ said Coach Judy Wolfe. \I know tbat everyone swam their best and put there all into the team this weekend.\ The seniors, Librandi,. Kinnett, and Wittes, sad that this was their last Union meet, said that they are so proud of each and every one of the swimmers, and thank everyone for making their seni<>r year so memorable.

Page 22 • February 24, 2000 • O.Ionrormensis Sports Women's Swimming Fourth in New York State Kinj~ett and Wittes Swim National B-Cuts by Lauren Wander Staff IVriter One week ago today, the Union Women's Swim Teams tat1ed their last meet of the seasGn. After com- peting at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute all day Thursday, Friday, and Saturday in the NYSWCAA Championship Meet, the women fimshcd fourth out of sixteen teams. Hamilton was the obvious winller, with Ithaca in second place a.nd Hartwick in third. \It was a con- stant battle between Hartwick, Lemoyne and us for fourth place,\ said Jumor Sarah Rankowitz. \But I'd rather get fourth to Hartvlick than to Lemoyne.\ Though the Dutchwomen were in second place after the first day, they had slipped to fom1h by the end of the meet. To keep the fourth place standing, the last relay of the meet, the 400 free relay, needed to place higher than their fifth place seed that their morning race had placed them. Befme the race, captain Kerry Librandi told the rest of her relay not to \IH>ld anything back in the race becaLtse we have nothing af- ter it. We shouldn't be able to get out of the pool.\ With every girl swimming at least a half a second faster than in the trials of the morn- ing, the relay team of Junior Rachel Miller, Librandi, Fres.lnnan Lauren Wander, and Senior Erin Wittes, was able to touch out Lemoyne for fourth place in the event, and fourth place overall. Touching out the Lemoyne relay was not W ittes' s greatest moment of the meet. That evening she had placed third in the 200 butterfly, an incredible accomplishment. This was only ~he icing on the cake after her two first places in the 200 and 400 Individual Medleys, where she swam B-cut times for Nationals in both events. \I knew I was dose in the 400, but I never thought I'd make it in the 200 IM!\ said an elated Wittes. Fellow Senior, Captain Clewis Kinnett, also swam a B-cut time in the 400 IM, her best event, getting second place. Kinnett placed eighth in her 200 IM and 200breast- stroke. Placing seventh in the 200 breaststroke with Kinnett, and sixth in the 100 breaststroke, Junior Vic Dreier swam lifetime bests in both events, while Freshman Lissie Grace, though not going her best times, was happy with her tenth and eleventh places in both breastroke events. Dreier was also a pmi of the third place 400 Medley relay on the first day. Rankowitz, Dreier, Wittes and Miller moved from their fifth place seed to be the only Union relay team to place in the top three. That same team placed fourth in the 200-med- ley relay on the second day. Aaron Seliger/CP The second day of competition Captains Kerry Libmndi and Clewis Kinnett have a laugh between events this past was Union's weakest, despite the weekend in which these tv;o women ended their swimming careers. one-two finish in the 400 1M, be- :-----------------------------.::_------------, cause there were no Union swim- Union Men's Club Hockey ~~~::r~~s~~~:;::;~y~~:~::i~s~ anyone swim that event and only HandS RPI 9--4 De~.·e· .. a·t havingthreegirlsplaceinthetop ~l eight on that day,\ commented by MichaelS. McGuire Copy Editor On Thursday, February 17, wh.en i:RPI came to Union in a club hockey !match up, it became clear that they are incapable of winning at Achil- les Rink this year. The visitors came out on the ice with a positive mindset, and one of their players could be overheard commenting, \Let's try and do better than the :varsity squad. did here.\ It was not to be, however, and the Union Men '\'s Club Hockey team defeated their RPI counter- jl>arts, 9-4, in a decisively one-sided !affair. Union's superior puck han- dling and passing proved to be the !difference as the inept, often hap- less RPl men frequently seemed lost on the ice. Early in the game, RPI's offense f'Nas nowhere to be found, and tbey managed only one shot on goal in the first thirteen minutes. The same was not true for Union, however,. as Captain Craig Gilmore started the scoring 3:40 into the first peri()d. !Mike Slitt extended the lead to 2-0 with 12:09 to play in the period. Union's Dave Chapin pu.t a bone-crushing hit on one of his floundering opponents midway through the period, and R.icky tacular ~oa:l by Misiaszek, his sec- Wittes. Regardless, Wander and Misiaszek scored the team's third ond in a. row, o~f of a feed by Librandi finished tenth and fif- goal with ten minutes to play. RPl Gedneyvt~ch completed the hat teenth, respectively, in the 200-yard finally picked up the pace as the tric:k. · ·· · · -· · · ; · freestyle, tenths of a secon<l from period drew to a close but failed to .... Tr)J:e:f!O:a(go~i:\yould.J.?e:scored breaking the two-minute mark. score, and Union led, 3-0, at the end by JU?~ \Vit1tl~S9left t<t'play, and In addition to this, the 800 free of the first. th~ yj~it~t~::·: f;~ercise pi ··futility relay of Librandi, Kinnett, Wander Union came out of the fustint(}r-: wolli'<leti<t/tdi:UQnGoali~.j()eNudi . . and Wittes placed sixth. '\That is mission with the same intp~sity pl~y~;:.~:~~{~*~ell~nf,gat'ij~~-n~t; .· one of the hardest relays because that they displayed in'the first 'Pe~. · tnald~g-~y~at'spectacu;hu-s~ve~; it was the third two hundred of the riod, and made itclearthattlle:sec~ thfJiigliRPlwo:u~d. oftenledaig~ · day for Kerry and Lauren, and ond period would be more ()f the .. ·chunks ()f tirttepass without test.:. Clewis and I just went B-cuts in the same.Wifh9:34remaining,Gilmore.~· ing)un{:,~ /';; ·. i.: .· · · 400IM, twice,\ said Wittes. \But scored again, putting the home . :4f'te1·1li~:'game; Gedney sa.i~ . · we got our seed, and that was all team ahead, 4-0. RPI finally man- \Ol!r 1i1;1~9:t;W~inerjR.iclcyandtiJy.:.. · that mattered.\ aged to find the back of the netwit,h seliseeJtte<t'to.gel. ~lt1lough it w~ Most of the girls moved 11p seeds 6:51 to go, however Union. (}id not. oply tlie\{O;Sf:g~e'that.we'played . • in the events that they swam, even let up. Den Male extendedUllion's to~etJl~~J~:ih~~G~ori lillet c~pt· the freshmen, impressing the rest lead to 5-1 at 14:01 ofthe third, and po$e<l(Jf~~Jt9ster,:(tyanMartin ' of their teammates. \The freshmen that is how the period end~. _ .... an4 A~~ ,'I'yk5jnski, kcmtJhe handled the meet very well.\ ob- Union decided to eliminat~ any garneig()ip:g;~fu.:thekbigbitsand served Rankowitz. \When I was a chance for an RPI comeback early fieq;ven:t .;~ch.r{ng chances. 1 ' freshman, I was a nervous wreck, in the third period. Less than a C}lapi~.:a.;dc;led, :''RPI came out but they were calm and didn't let minute into the period,. Sc(}tt_ ~Qughl>JitV{evvorethemdownand the pressure get to them.\ Gedneyextendedhisteam'sleadt(\) · bytbv--~ndtheywerechasingour Freshman Sara Hamilton per- five, and Dave Weiner made the .shado,y;$.~' .. :, • ·. . formed beautifully despite her ex- lead six atl :06 of the period. Union · · Ail·k~Ii;·1tw~s .a great effort. by treme nervousness. Through her ' _, . r· - •, .... - -~ • I , • -' would score again before R?l man- U'Jli9Jt~~ .club· ~e~ who enibar- nerves, she was able to swim her aged their second goal with.6'::14 to r~~se(their rival~ to tb,e,poiyt best times in the 50 and 200 go, making the score 8-2. The final·.· wb~re- ane.v.isitmg via.yeH~sk_ed .. freestyles and broke a minute for three minutes included a fllll!Y of an. o:J?petnentifU~on's wa~a JV the first time in the I 00 freestyle on scoring, however no.thing .could tei:un:so that th,ey could say they the last day. Also swimming best save the visiting squad. Witb 2:28 were.d.<lfeat~dbyUnion•sNteam. : times in the 100freewereMillerand remaining, RPI cuttP.e lead to five_, .• lti fa.ct.theyaxe:nota.JVteam;~d, Wander, who went 55.78 and 55.86, but Union erased it with a spec:- _ 1tP~wa~ju~tov'em1atche~·. · ·.: respectively, in the consolation •' : '.··;· -. . . - .. ·. • • ' :. ·. ·!\~· • '. ' •·t· .. :· . rot~nd on Saturday night to get twelfth and thirteenth places. Additionally, on. Saturday night Union. had three swimmers return- ing to finals in the 200hackstroke. Rankowitz, going her best 1ime of 2: 14.5 8, placed seventh. S opho- mores Sara Dietrich and Courtney Audet, who had both missed mak- ing it back to fmals on the f':rrst day in the 100 backstroke, placed in the top twenty-four in the 200. Audet went her best time by six seconds to move from eighteenth to seven- teenth that night. That last night began with the fastest heat of the 1650 freestyle. Librandi, even though she did not swim a best time, placed sixth overall and Freshman Anna Sluzar placed seventeenth in the morning drop- ping twenty-one seconds to swim a lifetime best time. The third mile swimmer for Union, Sophomore Cori Verrill, not only swam her fast- est mile, but she split ller fastest 5Q:O and 1000 freestyle times. \She always swims her best times in those events when she swims the 1 &50,\ said Librandi. \It's an arnaz- ia_g way to swim sue h a long event.\ Though not placing in the top 24 in any individual eve11ts, Sopho- more Rachel Bukowski, Juniors J en Hornsby and Marni Loiacono all swam best times in their events. And neither Verrill nor Librandi would have done so well in their long event if it were not for Loiacono, for they both agree that she is the \best counter in the whole league.\ On Thursday and Saturday dur- ing finals, the divers competed in the final rounds of the one and three meter boards. Sophomore Sarah Ellman, competing at the same level as nationally ranked divers, placed sixth on the 1-meter board and fifth on the 3-meter board. Sophomore Katie Meloney placed in the top twenty-four on the three meter and Freshman Brinley Mooney dove for sixth in the same event. Fellow Freshman, Beth Fuller, significantly improved from the beginning of the season when she had few dives to work with, placed in the top twenty-four on both boards using; five new dives. Next year, since Hamilton will be ();Ut of the conference, there will be 1400 more points to go around be- tween the teams, as Hamilton racked up a tremendous 1400 points en route to their first place fmish. The Dutchwomen, happy with their performance, will only im- prove from here, and ftre ready to see how they can do with those extra points. ''I'm proud of every girl on the team,\ said Coach Judy Wolfe. \I know that everyone swam their best and put there all illt() the team this weekend.\ The seniors, Librandi. Kinnett, and Wittes, sad that this was their last Union meet, said that they are so proud of each and every one of the swimmers, and thank everyone for making their senior year so memorable.

ts . of .in the top Jen all fo.r the and the ked eter ney four be It on 400 yim- to the \I their their yare of so I _. · _ _ _ S~~~~res aRd Standings Through Tuesday ···.iMe&t~I:;SDe.ke~ Women's Rocke~ ·c··~ii~!ifl::·~r.f~js;:j~i~JS} . . . (4-16/4 .. 10 ECAC) . '.' 15 at RPI . Lost s::({··' - .·-L·· J )/. I 8 ~I~owdoin _j:'~s at Yale · Tied 2-2 '· . . \1k 1 4 · , ... \' ' · 15 at Colby . 2~· · at Princeton Won 3-1 •• ~ .. ·. · · · · 22 BATES Mar; ), 4 at Harvard atBrown . 23 29 30 Feb. 5 6 12 SOUtHERN MAINE . at Sacred Heart at Conn. College TRINITY WESLEYAN at V errno flit Lost 5-l Lost 10-0 Lost 10-2 Lost 8~0· Won 4-2 Lost 8-1 Lost 6-0 Won 3-2 Won 4-3 Lost 3-l Lost 4-l Men'sand 28 Feb. 1 4 at Russell Sage at Skidtn(}te at Clarkso-n · 5 at SL La.Wtence 12 SKIDMORS 1'4 at Vassar L8 RPI 19 WILLIAM SMITH 25&Z6 UCAA Tout:nament Won 6047 Wen~ 76-~65 Lost76-67 Won-60-46 Lost 78-63 Lost 61-31 Lost 71-58 1$ atRPI 22 at Middleblll)' 25 HARtwlCK 28 at Cazenovia Feb. t at Skidtmre 4 at Clarks<>n 5 at St. tmmnce 12 SKIOMJRE 15 atW:~ 18 RPI 19 HOBART 25 & 26 UCM Tournatl'lnt M ' dw . .. . en s, an, omen~s S . . · .. wunnnng Jan .. 8. at Williams 15 at Hartwick 19 at RPI 22 at Middlebury 29 Hattrilton Feb. 5 ST. LAWRENCE M. Lost 154-65/ W. Lost 136.:98 M. Lost 122-117/ W. Won 122-121 M. Lost 126-115/W. Won 145-96 M. Lost 191-89/ W, Los:t 190 .. 89 M. Lost 140-92/W. Lost 137-94 17·19 Wo111en's State Meet at R.PI 4th out of 1<1 24~26 Men's State Meet at Hamilton Lost 7o-61 Lost 7().:61 WonfJ&67 Lo;;t63-58 Lost67-63 Lost 69--63 Won8t;66 Won 81.18 (OD Lost 71../57 tost6S.6:3 Lost69-63 WonB%7 Lost64-61 Won6$64 Won82-79 Women's Track Jan. 16 at Hamilton W. Lost 22 at RPI 28 at Wesleyan INV'T Feb. 13 UCAA at Hamilton 19 at Hamilton 25-26 State Meet .. - - •

s et js ot m re m en all m nd ter on in be be be- t on im- to the . \I heir of so Scores and Standings Through Tues.day Men'sHockey Women's Hockey (7-19-1/5-11-1 ECAC) (4-16/4-10 ECAC) Ja;· atVermortt LostJ-2 1 r:~. (~ . .J,-'·'· Jan. :8 at Dartmouth Lost 5-l vJ 7 HAMILTON Lost 5-l 14 RPI Won 3-2 .4' ~ 2 l:. at RPI Lost 5-0 .L j'' /\/I \' at Yale Tied 2-2 \- . - ;;~· .C! . 29 at Princeton Won 3-1 ';::- ~ 8 RIT Lostl0-0 14 at Bowdoin Lost 10-2 15 at Colby Lost 8-0 22 BATES Won 4-2 Feb. 4 DAR. T MOUTH Lost 2-1 CANCELED 23 SOUTHERN MAINE Lost 8-1 5 VERMONT H PRINCETON 12 YALE 1 & at Cornell l~ at Colgate 25 ST. LAWRENCE 26 CLARKSON Mar. 3 at Harvard 4 at Brown Lost 6-1 Lost 4-2 Lost4-3 Lost 9-3 Women's Basketball (12-21 /S-6 UCAA) 29 at Sacred Heart Lost 6-0 30 at Conn. College Won 3-2 Feb. 5 TRINITY Won 4-3 6 WESLEYAN Lost 3-1 12 at Vermont Lost 4-1 Men's Men's and Basketball Women's (14-10/5-7 UCAA) Jan. Track 4 S. VERMONf Won 83-66 Won 92-72 Jan. 7 lJnion Invitational 7 SUNY Maritilre 8 SCRANTON Lost 70.61 i i 8 Union Invitational Won 75-38 (Vermont) 9 Union lnvitatiottal Won 50-49 {Mt. St. Mary's) II HAMILTON Won 75-58 14 ST. LAWRENCE Won 67-61 15 CLARKSON Lost 79-56 ll HAMILTON 14 ST. LAWRENCE 15 CLARKSON 18 atRPI Lost 70-61 Won68-67 Lost 63-58 Lost67-63 Jan. 16 at Hamilton M Lost 96-771 W. Lost 92-4~ 18 at RPI Lost 51-38 22 at Middlebury 25 HARTWICK 28 at Cazenovia Feb. 1 at Skidrrore 22 MIDDLEBURY Lost 63-52 25 ·HARTWICK Lost 57-54 28 at Russell Sage Won60-49 Feb. 1 at Skidmore Won 60-47 4 at Clarkson Won-76-65 4 at Oarkson 5 at St. Lawrence Lost 76-67 5 at St. l.aMence 12 SKIDMORE Won 60-46 12 SKIDMORE 14 at Vassar Lost 78-63 15 at Williams 18 HPJ Lost 61-31 18 RPI 19 WILLIAM SMITH Lost 71-58 19 HOBART 25&26 UC AA Tournament 25&26 UCM Tournarrwt Men's and Women's Jan. Swimming 8 at Williams 15 at Hartwick 19 a.t RPI 22 at Middlebury 29 Hamilton Feb. 5 ST. LAWRENCE 17-19 Women's State Meet at RPI 24-26 Men's State Meet at Hamilton M. Lost 154-65/ W. Lost 136-98 M. Lost 122-117/ W. Won 122-121 M. Lost 126-llSfW. Won 145-96 M. Lost 191-89/W. Lost 190-89 M. Lost 140-92/W. Lost 137-94 M. Lost 132-119/W. Won 119-85 4th out of 16 Lost 69-63 Won 81-66 Won 81-78 (OT) Lost 71-67 Lost 65-63 Lost 69-63 Won 89-67 Lost 64-61 Won 65-64 Won 82-79 22 28 Feb. 13 at RPI at Wesleyan INVT UCM at Hamilton 19 at Hamilton 25-26 State Meet I I I

. ' '···'_, -~.1 .. ·:.._,'/' ,, ' ·,·, ,·,.' j > , ~ .. ' ' I ' '• J ~ f 1 • • 'M ...

- F ,~1$\···'. 't , . ·.A!!~ .. ' ,. the hoop against William Smith, whom they will face this Friday. . Sloan Miller/CP Also This Week At Union... • Febuary. 24, 2000 Swimming Women's Dutchwomen Hockey _ End Season Drops Two

