Vol. CXX, No. 1 Convocation Sends A New Message By JAY FREELAND News Editor The 196th Opening Con- vocation for Union College marked not only the beginning of a new school year, but the beginning of a new era in the College's history as well. Addressing an audience of approximately 175 faculty members · and students, President Roger Hull urged those present to put their honor above their ambitions. Quoting everyone from · Greek philosophers to his grandfather, Hull stressed the importance of involvement in campus activities and urged students to make the most of their opportunities. In his campus address last spring, Hull noted the strength of the student voice at Beloit and offered similar opportunity at Union should he become president. Hull's address at this convocation came as a welcome surprise for m,ost of the students present and was considered a positive sign for the academic year. Most students were encouraged by Hull's attitude towards change and welcomed his vow to be a very visible. but friendly force on the campus. Wasting no time, Hull attended the football game Saturday afternoon, pacing the sidelines behind the Union team. Hull stated during his speech \ ... there have always been mistakes, and I have made many •.. I hope I make more, because the only way to be immune from error is not to take· any action at all. 11 Inaugural ceremonies for the seventeenth president of the College will be held on Sunday, October 19th at 11:00 a.m. in Memorial Chapel. 1877 York September 27, 1990 Roger H. Hull - 17th Pr~sident of Union College. Hull's Plan: Observation For Now, Then Action By ANDREW SEEWALD Editor-in-Chief Those who are awaiting Roger H. Hull's ftrst landmark decision at Union College will have to be patient, at least for a couple more weeks. That is when Union's new president expects to have fingered the pulse of the school long enough to have an idea of what needs to be done. \Most of our students are from New York. We're a 'best-kept secret,' but we shouldn't be a secret.\ -President Hull The successor to John S. Morris, who had served as president since 1979, Hull says that he brings \no preconceptions\ to his job. He was president of Beloit College for ten years before coming to Union. Hull's achievements at Beloit are well-documented, but he cannot and will not attempt to do everything at Union as he did at Beloit. \I'm not going to try to transpose what I did at Beloit on Union because that might not work,\ he explained. Since arriving on campus at the beginning of the month, Hull has been busy in meetings and in study in his · attempt to learn the ways and workings of Union College. His appointment calendar has been filled and his desk is piled high with literature and information about the school. \I haven't been able to open my mail until 10 o'clock at night,\ he said. Still, he emphasized repeatedly that he is here for the students and that they are encouraged to see him. \If someone comes up to my office and I hear that they want to see me and I am not busy at that moment, I'll be happy to sit down and talk to them right then and there. Someone who wants to see me should be able to see me. I'll be as visible as I can, 11 he said. Hull plans to attend various athletic events and to Continued on page 3 N ott Restoration To Be Completed Within Two Years By ELISE FOODY Editor-in-Chief After nearly four decades of deliberation and debate, significant measures are being taken for restoration of the Nott Memorial. Since the removal of the College's library from the building in 1961, members of the campus community have frequently questioned the future of the historical landmark. Now, at an estimated cost of $4-4.5 million, the College plans to have the building completely renovated within the next two years. Under the direction of President Morris, a subcommittee of the Planning and Priorities Committee was appointed last March. According to Jack Maranville, Vice President for Institutional Planning, the committee was to focus on \preparing a program for the rehabilitation of the exterior of the Nott Memorial.\ Members of the subcommittee include: Jack Maranville (Chair); John Hauser, Vice President for Finance and Administration; Robert Rasmussen, Vice President for College Resources; James Underwood, Dean of Faculty; Charles Continued on page 4 Steering Committee Examines- College's Educational Mission By JAMES UNDERWOOD Dean of Faculty The Steering Committee for the self-study that the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools requires of the College periodically is completing the process of putting together its report. The report must be mailed to members of the Middle States evaluation team before the end of October. Dr. Gary J. Sojka, President of Bucknelll University, is the Chair of the eight member team that will conduct the evaluation visit December 2 through 5. Termed \comprehensive with certain emphases,\ the bulk of the report consists of chapters produced by six subcommittees consisting of faculty, students and administrators. In addition, the report contains an overview of the College which briefly describes its organization and governance, resources and programs, facilities and equipment, faculty and student body, and budgeting/planning. Included below arc: The Statement of Mission prepared to help guide the study, a statement of the , \working philosophy of the Steering Committee\ regarding the task of subcommittees, and a list of the topics studied by subcommittees. The Academic Affairs Council discussed draft reports of three subcommittees last spring and is now meeting to discuss others. The Student Affairs Council is meeting to discuss the reports of the following subcommittees: Assessing Efforts to Challenge and Energize Students, Diversity in the Student Body, and the Freshman Year and Residence Life. These discussions are being held for Continued on page 3 In This Issue: Senior Picnic page 7 Movie Review: Postcards From The Edge page 15 Sports Question of the Week 19

. ' ~ ~ . '. Page CONCORDIENSIS, September 27, 1990 The Devil Of The with Western hostages-- an attempt to soften his villainous image. The prospect of a costly war, especially_ on the deserts of Iraq and Saudi Arabia, is obviously unattractive to the United States. The President knows full well that a nation unified by a common cause is omnipotent. Still, the resoluteness .of many fades once gunshots sound and casualities pile up. Desert points of strategic location: military bases, oil refineries, etc., in an effort to deter any thoughts of aggression by the multinational forces. By JIM POLITES Iraq's unforeseen toppling of Kuwait on August 2 in the Middle East has justifiably commanded global media and government attention both for its shock and defiance. Saddam Hussein has forsaken most allies (notably the Soviets) and challenged the world to curb his quest for superpower status. The United States, meanwhile, has stepped forward not only in condemning the attack, but by sending forces to Saudi Arabia that add up to the largest American deployment since Vietnam, and first highly publicized military activity since Libya in 1986. At home, President Bush acted decisevely at the outset, mandating Iraq's unconditional withdrawal from Kuwait and freedom of all Westerners trapped in the eruptive region. Knowing that public sentiment rested on his quick and firm public reaction, the chief executive spoke harshly of the volatile situation, at once rallying behind the American flag while gaining a strong following of worldwide leaders. Bush conveyed what the country wanted to hear, and his hard-line stance impressed many. The United Nations naval blockade, a near perfect success thus far, is a vivid symbol of the world vs. Saddam picture. A unanimous vote to administer the blockade was passed quickly, and save for SPAA Fights Campus Apathy By ALAN EISENBERG Students for Political Awareness and Action held its first meeting on Monday, September 24. S.P.A.A. is a group concerned with appealing to the diversity of students on this campus. We try to raise and promote awareness in the Union community of many issues which we feel affect us as students. We do this in a non-biased, non-partisan manner which allows us to better understand the issues. For two consecutive y~ars, S.P.A.A., along with other campus organizations and academic departments, has brought American Pictures to campus. This non-partisan show helped raise campus consciousness of the very real problems of racism and poverty which exist in American society. This accurate and disturbing portrayal of American society is a mandatory event during orientation at several colleges throughout the United States. TELECOMMUNICATIONS TIPS ************************************** ·~ FOR YOUR CONVENIENCE THE COLLEGE CENTER I ST FLOOR COURTESY PHONES WILL NOW ACCEPT YOUR LONG DISTANCE AUTHORIZATION CODES. REMEMBER, YOU MUST Dl AL 8 + AUTHORIZATION CODE + 1 + AREA CODE + NUMBER. humanitarian causes, the belts of those in Iraq and Kuwait will rapidly tighten. Unfortunately, that also means less food for the estranged foreigners detained there. When Iraqi supporters adhere to the idea of a \holy war\ against the sordid U.S., our claim. in the Middle East is clear and just. First, Kuwait has emerged as a bonafide ally in a region that historically showcases widespread defecation of Old Glory. Much more important are the thousands of Americans now held in Iraq and its annexed emirate. Hussein, with optimistic candor, dubs the hostages figures of peace. The Arab dictator has undoubtedly placed the human shields in As a follow up, and to further address this problem on our campus, S.P.A.A. sponsored a one-night workshop on racism. During the Winter, 1990, S.P.A.A. worked to evaluate Union's investment policies in South Africa, in response to the racist system of apartheid which exists in that country. S.P.A.A. devotes much of its efforts to environmental consciousness. Last year, S.P.A.A. organized Union's Earth Day activities. A tree planting ceremony was held, as well as a demonstration of the making of recycled paper. S.P.A.A. has worked for the last two years to initiate a recycling program at Union. Moreover, S.P.A.A. has worked to increase know ledge of the effects the Exxon oil spill, and the prospect of oil drilling in the Arctic National Wildliife Refuge. S.P.A.A. has also worked to further knowledge of Nonpoint Source Saddam has effectively utilized the advanages afforded While Iraqi supporters adhere to the idea of a \holy war\ against the U.S., our claim in the Middle East is clear and just ••• Kuwait has emerged as a bonafide ally in a region that historically showcases widespread defecation of Old Glory. I him: the Iraqi military is prepared to defend its newly conquered land and foreigners in the· region are forcing the United States to settle for a resolve-trying draw. Hussein has even appeared on television Water Pollution and the possible modifications to the New York Bottle Bill. S.P.A.A. held \Peace and Justice Week\ during the Fall, 1989, which focused attention on many issues. Working in conjunction with Amnesty Internatbnal, S.P.A.A. addressed the problem of political prison~rs. Moreover, S .P .A.A. increased the awareness of the problem of hunger in our community. We have done this by conducting food drives, and volunteering at the Schenectady Food Pantry, a food kitchen for the homeless. S .P .A.A. has promoted awareness of the Federal government's WIC program, which provides high protein foods to impoverished pregnant women, nursing mothers, infants, and young children. In conjunction with this, S.P.A.A. has performed community service at the The pieces to this intricate puzzle have been set on the proverbial table by Bush and Hussein. Their clash represents a battle -of competing ideologies and philosophies over distant lands. For Saddain, his chance to forever join the ranks of world domination has arisen. Holding off the most powerful and influential country on the globe means instant recognition as a giant killer. For Bush, who for so many years was bridesmaid to Ronald Reagan, the monumental test of his administration has surfaced. He responded unwaveringly to the crisis in its infant stages-- now thousands of lives rest in his hands. The telling challenge George Bush has so vehemently sought is here-- now it's his tum to act Schenectady Day Nursery, which is a' non-profit day care center for primarily underprivileged infants and young children. S.P.A.A. has co-sponsored an information table with the Victims of Flight 103 Political Action Committee, which provided insight of the events which preceded the crash of Pan Am Flight 103 and the subesequent investigation. In weekly Concordiensis articles, S.P.A.A. attempts to raise the campus community's awareness of the many environmental problems which our worl4-.faces. We also hold weekly informational sessions at our meetings regarding a variety of issues, such as animal rights, and other topics of interest to our members. S.P.A.A. holds its meetings Monday nights at 7:30p.m. in Carnegie (the College Center), Room 203. S.P.A.A. encourages everyone to attend. TIME IS RUNNING OUT ... DON'T LET NOVEMBER 6th TAKE YOU BY SURPRISE. Important deadlines for r~gistration and voting: • Ocloher 9 Last day to mail in. a registration form. • October 13 Last day to register in person. e Ocloher 30 Last day to mail in absentee ballot application or letter of applica- tion. • November 5 Last day to mail in absentee ballot or hand deliver absentee ballot ap- plication. - ......... -~ ... ..,., • Non•mber 6 EtECTION BA \': 6a.m. - 9p.m. Also last day to hand deliver ahscnlcc ballot. For Information Contact Your County Board of Elections or Call l -800-FOR- VOTE lllllll.f:.hl 111 you hy Gail Slw.fli•r, St•crt'ttll:l' of Slate and the J.eugue (~/ Women VoU.'IJ of N. Y.S. r ! ; ..

Page CONCORDIENSIS, September 27, 1990 The Devil Of The with Western hostages-- an attempt to soften his villainous image. The prospect of a costly war, especially on the deserts of Iraq and Saudi Arabia, is obviously unattractive to the United States. The President knows full well that a nation unified by a common cause is omnipotent. Still, the resoluteness of many fades once gunshots sound and casualities pile up. Desert points of strategic location: military bases, oil refineries, etc., in an effort to deter any thoughts of aggression by the multinational forces. By JIM POLITES Iraq's unforeseen toppling of Kuwait on August 2 in the Middle East has justifiably commanded global media and government attention both for its shock and defiance. Saddam Hussein has forsaken most allies (notably the Soviets) and challenged the world to curb his quest for superpower status. The United States, meanwhile, has stepped forward not only in condemning the attack, but by sending forces to Saudi Arabia that add up to the largest American deployment since Vietnam, and first highly publicized military activity since Libya in 1986. At home, President Bush acted decisevely at the outset, mandating Iraq's unconditional withdrawal from Kuwait and freedom of all Westerners trapped in the eruptive region. Knowing that public sentiment rested on his quick and firm public reaction, the chief executive spoke harshly of the volatile situation, at once rallying behind the American flag while gaining a strong following of worldwide leaders. Bush conveyed what the country wanted to hear, and his hard-line stance impressed many. The United Nations naval blockade, a near perfect success thus far, is a vivid symbol of the world vs. Saddam picture. A unanimous vote to administer the blockade was passed quickly, and save for SPAA Fights Campus Apathy By ALAN EISENBERG Students for Political Awareness and Action held its first meeting on Monday, September 24. S.P.A.A. is a group concerned with appealing to the diversity of students on this campus. We try to raise and promote awareness in the Union community of many issues which we feel affect us as students. We do this in a non-biased, non-partisan manner which allows us to better understand the issues. For two consecutive years, S .P.A.A., along with other campus organizations and academic departments, has brought American Pictures to campus. This non-partisan show helped raise campus consciousness of the very real problems of racism and poverty which exist in American society. This accurate and disturbing portrayal of American society is a mandatory event during orientation at several colleges throughout the United States. TELECOMMUNICATIONS TIPS ************************************** FG ~ Y ~:'~::; CO~J VE N I ENCE THE COLLEGE CU;Tt:P ! .:S T FLCOP COURTESY PHONES 'v¥::_~ ~-IO't.' ACCEPT Y0UP. LOr--JG r.:c.' \·'·'':- J.' ~~~Jor·l 7 'TION COOEc: L-·' J I r- j J ..... ._ ~ l...t I ' I 1\\ I L_ h ....I P~.·-1:::18E~. YOIJ f1UST DI.A.~ 8 + t.-'~~:')P.?_A;i':;t, CGO~ +I+ 1-PE.A r- , - \ ~ ~ r- r- • '-'-''-'L • , ~'--'1 ·iuLr, humanitarian causes, the belts of those h1 Iraq and Kuwait will rapidly tighten. Unfortunately, that also means less food for the estranged foreigners detained there. When Iraqi supporters adhere to the idea of a \holy war\ against the sordid U.S., our claim in the Middle East is clear and just. First, Kuwait has emerged as a bonafide ally in a region that historically showcases widespread defecation of Old Glory. Much more important are the thousands of Americans now held in Iraq and its annexed emirate. Hussein, with optimistic candor, dubs the hostages figures of peace. The Arab dictator has undoubtedly placed the human shields in As a follow up, and to further address this problem on our campus, S.P.A.A. sponsored a one-night workshop on racism. During the Winter, 1990, S.P.A.A. worked to evaluate Union's investment policies in South Africa, in response to the racist system of apartheid which exLts in that country. S.P.A.A. devotes much of its efforts to environmental consciousness. Last year, S.P.A.A. organized Union's Earth Day activities. A tree planting ceremony was held, as well as a demonstration of the making of recycled paper. S.P.A.A. has worked for the last two years to initiate a recycling program at Union. Moreover, S.P.A.A. has worked to increase knowledge of the effects the Exxon oil spill, and the prospect of oil drilling in the Arctic National Wildliife Refuge. S.P.A.A. has also worked to further knowledge of Nonpoint Source Saddam has effectively utilized the advanages afforded While Iraqi supporters adhere to the idea of a \holy war\ against the U.S., our claim in the Middle East is clear and just ... Kuwait has emerged as a bonafide ally in a region that historically showcases widespread defecation of Old Glory. I him: the Iraqi military is prepared to defend its newly conquered land and foreigners in the region are forcing the United States to settle for a resolve-trying draw. Hussein has even appeared on television Water Pollution and the possible modifications to the New York Bottle Bill. S.P.A.A. held \Peace and Justice Week\ during the Fall, 1989, which focused attention on many issues. Working in conjunction with Amnesty Internatbnal, S.P.A.A. addressed the problem of political prisoners. Moreover, S.P.A.A. increased the awareness of the problem of hunger in our community. We have done this by conducting food drives, and volunteering at the Schenectady Food Pantry, a food kitchen for the homeless. S.P.A.A. has promoted awareness of the Federal government's WIC program, which provides high protein foods to impoverished pregnant women, nursing mothers, infants, and young children. In conjunction with this, S.P.A.A. has performed community service at the The pieces to this intricate puzzle have been set on the proverbial table by Bush and Hussein. Their clash represents a battle of competing ideologies and philosophies over distant lands. For Saddam, his chance to forever join the ranks of world domination has arisen. Holding off the most powerful and influential country on the globe means instant recognition as a giant killer. For Bush, who for so many years was bridesmaid to Ronald Reagan, the monumental test of his administration has surfaced. He responded unwaveringly to the crisis in its infant stages-- now thousands of lives rest in his hands. The telling challenge George Bush has so vehemently sought is here-- now it's his tum to act. Schenectady Day Nursery, which is a non-profit day care center for primarily underprivileged infants and young children. S.P.A.A. has co-sponsored an information table with the Victims of Flight 103 Political Action Committee, which provided insight of the events which preceded the crash of Pan Am Flight 103 and the subesequent investigation. In weekly Concordiensis articles, S.P.A.A. attempts to raise the campus community's awareness of the many environmental problems which our world faces. We also hold weekly informational sessions at our meetings regarding a variety of issues, such as animal rights, and other topics of interest to our members. S.P.A.A. holds its meetings Monday nights at 7:30 p.m. in Carnegie (the College Center), Room 203. S.P.A.A. encourages everyone to attend. TIME IS RUNNING OUT ... DON'T LET NOVEMBER 6th TAKE YOU BY SURPRISE. Important deadlines for regi .. tration and voting: • Ocluher 9 Last day to mail in a registration form. • Odnber 13 Last day to register in person. • Odnher 30 Last day to mail in absentee ballot application or letter of applica- tion. • November 5 Last day to mail in absentee ballot or hand deliver absentee ballot ap- plication . ._,...,... • .,.,~ 1141 , • NoH\mber 6 El-ECTION BA \': 6a.m. - 9p.m. Abo last day to hand deliver ahsent ec ballot. For Information Contact Your County Board of Elections or Call 1-800-FOR- VOTE /lu,11~ht /(I ruu In (iatl Shu/It•', Sccrctu1 r 1~/ 'it ate 1/1/{/fltc I ('UI,!IIl' 0/ u (J/11('/1 l ()/('/.\ oj N. r.s.

r ! I· ! i' r I /.! (\ CONCORDIENSIS, September 27, 1990 Page 3 Student Forum Announces Committee Appointments; Review Budgets Students' Personal Developments. Under Examination Continued from page 1 By TOM ANDRUCHOW Associate News Editor that representatives go to these meetings and justify their requests. This will facilitate review of budgets and increase chances of receiving requested . funds. The following appointments to Committees, made last June, were announced: Peter Cowles and Karen Hurwitz to the Committee on Committees; Liz Dobbs, John the purpose of informing the community, discovering errors of fact in the reports and · stimulating discussion that might be helpful in considering · recommendations after the self- study process has been completed. \Working Philosophy\ for Subcommittee reports understood that any recommendations contained in the reports would be taken up through the normal channels of the College governance system or through whatever ad hoc means might be deemed appropriate given the interest generated by particular recommendations. Subcommittee topics • Assessing Efforts to Challenge and Energize Students • Status of the Curriculum ~ International Programs The Student Forum began, the 1990-91 academic year with its first meeting last Monday night of representatives and offices to discuss general objectives for the ensuing school year and a few belatedly submitted club budget requests. The Forum enters the 1990-91 school year with a balanced budget as all previous debts have been paid. The Union College Dance Team submitted an appeal for $1650 needed to purchase new uniforms for this rapidly ·. Jadhon, and Neil Kanterman to the Finance Committee; Evans LeGros and Jacqueline Smith the Academic Affairs Committee; Andy Salem, Brendan Clifford, and Beth Welch to the Student Affairs Council. The working philosophy of the Steering Committee regarding the task of the subcommittees was that each of the latter be given broad freedom within the language of • their charges to present their best thinking on the subject I assigned to them without having to concern themselves with \stepping on toes\ or the necessity of avoiding controversial questions. And while the Steering Committee met with each subcommittee to discuss and criticize first drafts, the Committee did not take a position on specific recommendtions or make substantive changes in reports in the process of editing that led to the end product, this report. It has always been • The Freshman Year and . ; Residential Life .' • Diversity in the Student Body ·developing group. Representatives were present to account for the expenditures proposed. A motion sent the request to the finance committee for review. Other club budget requests were discussed. These were tabled due to a lack of representation of these organizations which impeded debate about the budgets. The Forum suggests The Forum will hold an election for the Junior class 1 Representative with the elections for Freshman class Representative. Petitions for / nomination will be obtainable at the Student Activities. i Exposition being held from . 1 1:00 p.m. till 4:00 p.m. on I October 4, 1990. Hull Proceeds With Caution In First Steps As President Continued from page 1 from around the country and model itself after anyone else.\ occasionally show up in the even around the world. \Most On the process of making a dining halls for some casual of our students are from New decision: \I like making conversation. He is looking for York. We're a 'best-kept secret' decisions, after hearing different input from all areas as he but we shouldn't be a secret\ viewpoints from different formulates his plans for the On student involvement: constituencies. I try to involve College. _ \One of the things I'm. doing is diff~nt constitu?ncies ~ ~very While declining to make any trying to get students mvolved deciSion. If there s a declSlon to specific remarks about issues in off-campus activities. And be made about the Nott, there he will soon address, Hull did this environmental group will be students, faculty and make some general remarks in (formed last year, which has administrators so that we have a few areas. already met with him) is a a broad representation.\ On admissions and great way ofdoing this.\ So far, President Hull has recruitment of students: \We'll On Union in comparison to not made any big decisions. . do some things differently this similar schools: \There are But he has expressed that he is year. What they are, I'm not some things that w~ have that not afraid to make a. ~ecisio!l, ready to say yet.\ Later, he make Union umque. My and that the first dectstons wlll mentioned that Union should objective is to have Union be be coming soon. look to draw its student body the model rather than have to Reported Security Incidents 9/16/'30 DAVIDSON HOUSE REPORTED THEFT 9/17190 fOl HOUSE BROKEN IIINDOII 9/17/90 fOI HDUS~ SOUTH NON-STUDENTS IN BUILDJN6 9/17/90 fOX HOUSE BASEftENT NON-STUDENTS IN 8UILDIH6 9/17/90 NORTH COlLEGE SIGN IN BOOK STOlEN 9/17190 DAVIDSON HOUSE UNDESIRABLE DISCOVERED IN STUDENT'S ROOM 9/18/!10 NORTH COLLEGE UNDESIRABLE IN AREA,HAS A STUDENT '3/18/90 SOUTH COllEGE VEHICLE VANDALIS~ 9/18/90 NEST COLLEGE TRANSPORTED INJURED STUDENT TO ELLIS ER '3/18/90 DAVIDSON HOUSE REPORTED THEFT 9/18/90 IIEST COLlEGE TRANSPORTED INJURED STUDENT TO ELLIS ER 9/18/90 DAVIDSON HOUSE UNDESIRABLE AT THE LOADIN6 DOCK 9/18/90 R I CHKOND HOUSE ftiSSING TV 9/19/90 SOUTH COLLEGE UNDESIRABLE IN AREA 9/19/90 f\ISI ENTRANCE DOOR BROKEN 9119/90 CAftPUS REPORT Or DEPRESED STUDENT 9/20/90 ME lAB LOT WINDSHIELD BROKEN '3/20/90 NEST COLLEGE UNDESIRABLE IH AREA, ~AS A STUDENT 9/20/90 EDWARDS HOUSE VANDALIZED DOOR REPORTED 9/20/90 SOT NOISE COIIPLA!NT 9/21/90 ADMINSTRATION DOMESTIC DISPUTE 9/21/90 WEST COllE6E LOUD PARTY ON ~TH rlOOR 9/21/90 IIEST COLLE6E POOL TABLE DESTROYED 9/22190 BAilEY flASHER REPORTED ON 1ST fLOOR \ Graduate and Continuing Studies Statement of Mission Union believes that the fundamental obligation of a liberal arts college is to create in students a commitment to, and a joy in, learning as central to their development over the course of a lifetime. Recognizing that the college experience represents a continuation, not an end, of a person's education, Union seeks to ensure that its students incorporate the pursuit of knowledge into the fabric of their lives. Laboring under no illusion that an educated person will automatically be a morally superior person, the College nevertheless believes that commitment to pursuing knowledge and truth goes hand in hand with a resolve to defend the dignity of all people in the face of attack from the ignorant, the prejudiced, the , uncritical, and those who subordinate truth to the single- minded pursuit of power or wealth. I The College believes that knowledge of self is an important goal of liberal education. The College also believes that knowledge of self is properly conceived as pos~ible only in relation to one's cultural heritage and to the perspectives provided by other cultures. Thus while Union seeks to help each ' ' ~ .i • • • • • • • student discover and develop his or her individuality, it also seeks ways to prevent the sort of obsession with the self of which Tocqueville warned. Although not blind to the contributions of democracy, Tocqueville worried that the individualism fostered by democracy \makes every man forget his ancestors, ... hides his descendants and separates his contemporaries from him; it throws him back forever on himself alone, and threantens · in the end to confine him entirely within the solitude of : his own heart.\ By offering a curriculum and the sorts of , experiences that enable students to see the ways in which they .I are part of a larger whole, the 1 College hopes that students will develop a sense of purpose that will lead them to be contributing members of the larger communities of which they are a part. An important element in Union's particular heritage is the idea that reflection and experience are mutually reinforcing. The idea that \experience\ can spark reflection has been expressed in many ways in our history, from President Nott's instituting a course of study in that most \useful\ of disciplines, engineering (in 1845), to the creation of terms- abroad in a dozen countries since the spring of 1969, to the rapid expansion of opportunities for undergraduate research in the last few years. A second important element in Union's herita·ge is a close working relationship between faculty and students. Because faculty demonstrate on a daily basis their commitment to the idea that teaching and scholarship are also mutually reinforcing activities, they serve students as models for the idea of active learning. Nowhere is the ideal of active learning more successfully met than in the College's undergraduate research program, one which exploits close Continued on page 4

CONCORDIENSIS, September 27, 1990 Page 3 Student Forum Announces Committee Appointments; Review Budgets Students' Personal Developments Under Examination Continued from page 1 the purpose of informing the understood that any By TOM ANDRUCHOW Associate News Editor that representatives go to these meetings and justify their requests. This will facilitate review of budgets and increase chances of receiving requested funds. community, discovering errors recommendations contained in of fact in the reports and the reports would be taken up stimulating discussion that through the normal channels of The Student Forum began the 1990-91 academic year with its first meeting last Monday night of representatives and offices to discuss general objectives for the ensuing school year and a few belatedly submitted club budget requests. The Forum enters the 1990-91 school year with a balanced budget as all previous debts have been paid. might be helpful in considering the College governance system recommendations after the self- or through whatever ad hoc study process has been means might be deemed The following appointments to Committees, made last June, were announced: Peter Cowles and Karen Hurwitz to the Committee on Committees; Liz Dobbs, John Jadhon, and Neil Kanterrnan to the Finance Committee; Evans LeGros and Jacqueline Smith the Academic Affairs Committee; Andy Salem, Brendan Clifford, and Beth Welch to the Student Affairs Council. completed. appropriate given the interest \Working Philosophy\ generated by particular for Subcommittee reports recommendations. The working philosophy of Subcommittee topics the Steering Committee • Assrssing Efforts to regarding the task of the Challenge and Energize subcommittees was that each Students of the latter be given broad • Status of the Curriculum freedom within the language of • International Programs their charges to present their \ The Freshman Y car and The Union College Dance Team submitted an appeal for $1650 needed to purchase new uniforms for this rapidly developing group. Representatives were present to account for the expenditures proposed. A motion sent the request to the finance committee for review. Other club budget requests were discussed. These were tabled due to a lack of representation of these organizations which impeded debate about the budgets. The Forum suggests I best thinking on the subject Residential Life I assigned to them without ' The Forum will hold an election for the Junior class Representative with the elections for Freshman class Representative. Petitions for; nomination will be obtainable · at the Student Activities Exposition being held from 1:00 p.m. till 4:00 p.m. on October 4, 1990. 1 : having to concern themselves with \stepping on toes\ or the necessity of avoiding controversial questions. And while the Steering Committee met with each subcommittee to discuss and criticize first drafts, the Committee did not take a positiOn on specific recommendtions or make substantive changes in reports in the process of editing that ·, led to the end product, this report. It has always been Hull Proceeds With Caution In First Steps As President Continued from page l from around the country and model itself after anyone else.\ occasionally show up in the even around the world. \Most . On the process of making a dining halls for some casual of our students are from New ' decision: \I like making conversation. He is looking for York. We're a 'best-kept secret' decisions, after hearing different input from all areas as he but we shouldn't be a secret.\ viewpoints from different formulates his plans for the On student involvement: constituencies. I try to involve College. . \One of the things I'm doing is different constituencies in every While declining to make any trying to get students involved decision. If there's a decision to specific remarks about issues in off-campus activities. And be made about the Nott, there he will soon address, Hull did this environmental group will be students, faculty and make some general remarks in (formed last year, which has administrators so that we have a few areas. already met with him) is a a broad representation.\ On admissions and great way of doing this.\ So far, President Hull has recruitment of students: \We'll On Union in comparison to not made any big decisions. do some things differently this similar schools: \There are But he has expressed that he is year. What they are, I'm not some things that we have that not afraid to make a decision, ready to say yet.\ Later, he make Union unique. My and that the first decisions will mentioned that Union should objective is to have Union be be coming soon. look to draw its student body the model rather than have to Reported Security Incidents 9/16/90 DAVIDSON HOUSE REPORTED TltErT 91171'30 fOX HOUSE BROKEN NINDOII 91!71'10 fOI HOUSE SOUTH NON-STUDENTS IN BUILDING .. Diversity in the Student Body • Graduate and Continuing Studies Statement of Mission Union believes that the fundamental obligation of a liberal arts college is to create in students a commitment to, and a joy in, learning as central to their development over the course of a lifetime. Recognizing that the college experience represents a continuation, not an end, of a person's education, Union seeks to ensure that its students incorporate the pursuit of knowledge into the fabric of their lives. Laboring under no illusion that an educated person will automatically be a momlly superior person, the College ne verthelcss be I ieves that commitment to pursuing knowledge and truth goes hand in hand with a resolve to defend the dignity of all people in the face of attack from the ignorant, the prejudiced, the uncritical, and those who 1 subordinate truth to the single- minded pursuit of power or wealth. The College believes that , knowledge of self is an important goal of liberal education. The College also believes that knowledge of self is properly conceived as pos~ible only in relation to one's cultural heritage and to the perspectives provided by other cultures. Thus while Union seeks to help each student discover and d.:vdop his or h~.·r individuality, it alq1 s~.~ks ways to prevent the' ..;ort of obsession with the self of which Tocqucvilk warned. Although nor blind to the contributions or tknwcr:.K y' Tocquevilk worri~d that the individualism fostered by democracy \makes cvay man forget his anc~stors, ... hides his descendants and separates his contemporaries from him; it throws him back forev~r on himself alone, and thrcantens 1 in the end to confine hirn entirely within the solitutk uf ' his own heart.\ By offering a curriculum and the sorts of ' experiences that enable stmknL-.; to sec the ways in which thl'Y arc part of a larger whole. the ' College hopes that students will develop a sense of purposL\ that will lead them to I)(' contributing members of the larger communities of \\ hich they are a part. An important element in Union's particular heritage is the idea that reflection and experience arc mutually reinforcing. The idea that \experience\ can spark reflection has been expressed in many ways in our history, from President Nott's instituting a course of study in that most \useful\ of disciplines, engineering (in 1845), to the creation of terms- abroad in a dozen countries since the spring of 1969, to the rapid expansion of opportunities for undergraduate research in the last few years. A second important clement in Union's heritage is a close working relationship between faculty and students. Because faculty demonstrate on a daily basis their commitment to the idea that teaching and scholarship arc also mutually reinforcing activities, they serve students as models for the idea of active learning. Nowhere is the ideal of active learning more successfully met than in the College's undergraduate research program, one which exploits close Continued on page 4 formed '1117190 fOX HOUSE BASE~ENT 9117/90 NORTH COLLEGE '1117190 DAVIDSON HOUSE 9/IB/90 NOJHH COLLEGE 9118/90 SOUTH COlLEGE 9/18/90 WEST COLLEGE 9/18/90 DAVIDSON HOUSE NON-STUDENTS IN 8UILOIN6 SISN IN BOOK STOLEN UNDESIRABLE DISCOVERED IH STUDENT'S ROOn UNDESIRABLE IN AREA,WAS A STUDENT VEHICLE VANDALISM TRANSPORTED INJURED STUDENT TO ELLIS ER REPORTED THEFT TRANSPORTED INJURED STUDENT TO ELLIS ER ··~·· 'ld·b~cQUlmi\tt~e: Of the Faculty Review Board has been fort~te<l t\l ittv , · , ',a1e'm1d r~rt on the tenurability of Prof. Martin Streslberg of the Graduate Management Institute. 9118/90 IIEST COLLEGE 9/18/'30 DAVIDSON !lOUSE 9118/90 RICHMOND HOUSE 911'31'30 SOUTH WLLEGE 9/19/90 FIG! 9/1~/90 CAitPUS 9/20/90 liE LAB LOT 9/20190 NEST COLLEGE 9/20/90 EDIIAROS HOUSE 9/20/90 SDT 9/21/90 ADHINSTRATION 9/21/90 WEST COLLEGE 9121/90 IIEST COLLEGE 9122/90 BAILEY UNDESIRABLE AT THE LOADING DOCK MISSING TV UNDESIRABLE IN AREII ENTRANCE DOOR BROKEN REPORT Of DEPRESED STUDENT ~INDSHIELD BROKEN UNDESIRABLE IN AREA, \lAS A STUDENT VANDALIZED DOOR REPORTED NOISE COnPLAINT DOitESTIC DISPUTE LOUD PARTY ON 4TH fLOOR POOL TABLE DESTROYED FLASHER REPORTED ON 1ST FLOOR Any member .of the Union College community who wishes to provide infonnation relating to Prof. Strosberg' s teaching, scholarly activity, or college service for this · review may submit written ·testimony by Oct. 30, 1990, to any member of the ad hoc committee: Professors Cliff Brown, Political Science; Les Hull, Chemistry; Jim Lambrinos~ Graduate Management Institute; Linda Patrik, Philosophy. Interviews may be arranged by. contacting Prof. Hull, the committee chair at extension 6339.

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, .September 27, 1990 College To Spend $4 Million On Restoration of Nott Memorial Droge Appointed Hull's Assista~nt Continued from page 1 Tidmarch, Professor of Political Science, and Chair of the Faculty; George Williams, Professor of Electrical Engineering; Hugh Allen Wilson representing the Arts Department; and Elizabeth Welch '92. The subcommittee did in fact prepare a program for the rehabilitation of the Nott Memorial and presented it to President Morris and members of the Planning and Priorities Committee last year. The report included an historical overview of the Nott as well as conclusions from several studies conducted. Among these studies were a masonry and partial architectural report on the structure of the Memorial. The report also included photos and graphics of the landmark and a potential schedule and budget outline. Three of fourteen architectural firms distinctly familiar with. historical- preservation of landmarks were selected to come to campus with plans on restoring the · Nott. According te Maranville, \Notter Finegold and Alexander (a Boston--based. architectural finn who worked on the Ellis Island project) were chosen based on their past experience, credentials, outline approach and feelings on historical preservation.\ A work team from the flrm visited the carnpus for three days this week to begin prelimina~y inv-estigation of the Memorial's struct1:1re. The team met with President Hull Monday and reported the project to be both ex:citing and manageable. By January nex:t year it is hoped that an agreement will be reached 011 tile scope of work required for restoration. Maranville believes that the architectural firm will complete drawings of the building by next April, and the College expects to begin reviewing bids from construction companies by the end of the academic year .. Edward F. Droge Jr. of Greenwich, Washington In terms of funding for the ·County, N.Y., bas been !estoration, the College is appointed assistant to the running a special appeal for the president ofUnion College. Nott. Currently, the College Before C()ming to Union, has received $90,000 in Droge worked part time in the donations which will be admissions ()ffice at Skidmore matched by the Bailey Fund. College, Saratoga Springs, The Bailey Fund, established while. completing his by Frank Bailey, a former dissertation .for a docrorate in trustee. benefactor and alumnus administrtion, planning and of the College is intended to i social pol.icy at Harvard address special needs of the ·University. He expects to College. The Fund will match receive the doctorate during this all donations for the Nott up to , academic year. $200,000 per year. In addition Before working at Skidmore, to this money, the College has he was an instructor/teaching received $300.,000 from the fellow of expository writing at Historical Preservation Fund. Harvard and program developer The remaining $3-3.5 million · at the Harvard Graduate School estimated to be needed for I of Education., w,here he helped rec~:mstmction is to be raised j create and develop two teacher by fundraising ventures not education programs. At the defmed at this time. same time, lle did cowse work for a doctorate. as di:rectC>r of studies and coU¢ge guidance at Wooster Sehoul, Danbury Conn.; directol' of admissions at Cam~:ricge School of Weston, West()n, Mass.;. dean of studen~, at Harvard School, North Hollywood, Calif.; and English teacher at Polytechnic Preparatory Country Day School, Brooklyn. Dr()ge received a master's degree in education from Harvar<l in 1985 and a bachel()ti's degree in English, cum l:!tude, from Yale Unive1~ity in 1977. Bef()re enrolling in college, he wmked as a policeman in the New York City Police Department, both as a unifcrmed officer and a plainclothes detective. Out of Classroom Experience Under Inquiry Droge came to Harvard with 12 years experience in secondary-school teaching and administration. He had worked - He is: tb.e author of three books~-an.d his opinion pieces have ll:Jl)leared in several pubtication.s, including The Chronicle of Higher Education and the Los Angeles Times. The Rrooklyn native and his wife, Mary, have a daughter. Continued from page 3~ faculty-student interaction to inspire students in all fields of study as they experience both 1 the pleasure and pain of serious inquiry. A commitment to diversity in offerings and programs is a third element in Union's heritage. That diversity has been expressed in a variety of forms beginning with the I introduction of a \scientific 1 course\ as an alternative to the classical course of study in the 1820's. Among current expressions of diversity that make Union unusual among peer institutions is a limited : range of graduate programs ! which allow students the, opportunity to take an additonal step beyond the traditional four-year undergraduate curriculum. Given our affirmation that a liberal education is the best path towards personal fulfillment, including achievement in one's work life and contribution to the larger community, Union College offers an undergraduate curriculum that it believes enables students to acquire specific sorts of knowledge and skills as well as a lifelong commitment to learning. Students must commit themselves to a major as a means of developing mastery of a field. They must also complete general education requirements to ensure that they acquire knowledge of western culture as elements of that culture are reflected in history, literature and other areas of study. Tiley must learn to comprehead various approaches to iaquiry and understanding including the scientific method and the language of tnathematics. Finally, the general education program encourages students to develop an understanding of other cultures tluough a variety of approaches, including the study of foreign. languages and study abroad. Union's extensive progarm of terrns-abroad and exchanges gives special vitality to the College's effort in international education. The classroom, laboratory and studio are central to the intellectual and creative experiences offered to students. The College also provides opportunities, resources and a larger residential environment that allow students to develop and test their capacities for personal growth in a variety of domains. Am()ng a rich mixture of co-curricular activities are tbose which provide students opportunities for artistic expression, athletic achievement, service to the community, the exercise of leadership, and discussion of issues of significance beyond the campus. OIU system of residential life is evolving in the direction of greater variety in options available as a means of encouraging students to broaden their perspectives. Taken togetlter, Union's academic program and the constellation of oppo1tunities Tenure Committee Announcement A committee has been formed to review Professor Hugh Foley of the Psl/chology Department for tenurability. If you have any information that you would like the committee to consider regarding this review, please contact any of the following committee members: Tom Werner (committe!t chair, Chemi'\ · 1 Dept.), Bill Fairchild (Matl1 Dept.), Jim Mc.vord (English Dept.) and Ken DeBono (Psychology Dept.). available outside the narrowly academic provide a sound basis for the intellectual, moral and social growth of students. An unedited draft of the entire self-study (two copies) is being made available for public inspection at the Circulation Desk of the Library. Copies will also be provided to the Student Forum, the Faculty Executive Committee and Chairs of each of the College's four academic divisions. I.E.F. DEADLINE The deadline for proposals f~r the Internal Educati~n Foundation in two categories--student-initiated research projects and ••educationally innovative projects\ is Friday, October 5, 1990. Proposals for student-initiated research projects m:ust have the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to s~pervise the project. The proposals should be submitted to the Dean's office (8100, Science & Engineering Building) on forms available there. Similarly, members of the College community who have \educationally innovative\ proposals should submit them to the same office on forms available there. Forms for Faculty Research Pro.jects are also avaiLable in the Dean's Office (SlOO). Guidelines with respect to the I.E.F. are available in the Dean's Office. Inquiries about I.E.F., the guide1ines, or the ~rcposal deadline should be directed to Terry Weiner, Associate Dean of Fac:ulty. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $50. - $85. per day. Transportation costs shO>u~d also reflect the best rates available. Students who are planning to ~o interviews must indicate that arrangements have already been made. If your research includes work with human subjects, then the proposal must nave pre- liminary approval from the Human Subjects Research Collli'llittoee before it can be funded by the Subcouncil o~ Research and Grants. FACULTY RESEARCH DEADLINE The Subcouncil on Research and Grants. is now soliciting proposals for faculty research and scholarship activities. Applications and guide- lines are available in Dean Weiner• s Offi.ce ( S-100, S & E) . The deadline for submission of proposals is Oct.ober 5, 1990. Questions concerning the Faculty Research Fund shouLd be directed to Dean Weiner. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $50~ - $85. :per day. Transportation costs should also reflect the best rates available. If your research includes work with. lluman subjects, then the pro- posal must have preliminary apaprovaJ. from the Human Subjects Research Committee before it can be funded by the Subcouncil on Eesearch and Grants. ( I ! ~~ .,

Page 4 CONCORDlENSJS, September 27, 1990 College To Sp·end $4 Million On Restoration of N ott Memorial Droge Appointed Hull's Assistant Continued from page 1 Tidmarch, Professor of Political Science, and Chair of the Faculty; George Williams, Professor of Electrical Engineering; Hugh Allen Wilson representing the Arts Department; and Elizabeth Welch '92. The subcommittee did in fact prepare a program for the rehabilitation of the Nott Memorial and presented it to President Morris and members of the Planning and Priorities Committee last year. The report included an historical overview of the Nott as well as conclusions from several studies conducted. Among these studies were a masonry and partial architectural report on the structure of the Memorial. The report also included photos and graphics of the landmark and a potential schedule and budget outline. Three of fourteen architectural firms distinctly familiar with historical preservation of landmarks were selected to come to campus with plaNs on restoring the Nott. According to Maranville, \Notter~ Finegold and Alexander (a Boston-based . architectural firm who worked on the Ellis Island project) were chosen based on their past experience, credentials, outline approach and feelings on historical preservation.\ A work team from the firm visited tile campus for three days this week to begin prelirninao investigation of the Memorial's structure. The team met Vlith President Hull Monday and reported the project to be both exciting and manageable. By January next year it is hoped that an agreement will be reached on the scope of work required for restoration. Maranville believes that the architectural firm will complete drawings ()f the building by next April, and the College expects to begin reviewing bids from construction companies by tile end of the academic year. In terms of funding for the ~estoration, the College is nmning a special appeal for the Nott. Currently, the College has received $90.000 in donations which will be matched by the Bailey Fund. The Bailey Fund, established by Frank Bailey, a former trustee, benefactor and alllffinus of the College is intended to address special needs of the. 1 . College. The Fund will match all donations for the Nott up to $2(}(),000 per year. In addition to this money, the College has received $300,000 from the Hist()rical Preservation Fund. The remaining $3-3.5 million estimated to be needed for \ reconstruction is to be raised I by fundraising ventures not ' defined at this time. Edward F. Droge Jr. of Greenwich, Washington County, N.Y .• has been appointed assistant to the president of Union College. Before corning to Union, Droge worked :part time in the admissions office at Skidmore College, Saratoga Springs, while. completing his dissertation for a doctorate in administrtion, planning and social policy at Harvard University. He expects to receive the docoorate during this academic year. Before working at Skidmore, he was an instructor/teaching fellow of exp<Jsitory writing at Harvard and program developer at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. wn.ere he helped create and develop two teacher education programs. At the same time, he did course work for a doctorate. as director of studies and college guidance at Wooster School, Danbury Conn.; director of admissions at Cambridge School of Weston, Weston, Mass.; dean of students at Harvard School, North Hollywood, Calif.; and English teacher at Polytechnic Preparatory Country Day School, Brooklyn. Droge received a master's degree in education from Harvard in 1985 and a bachelor's degree in English, cum laude, from Yale University in 1977. Before enrolling in cotlege, he worked as a policeman in the New York City Police Department, both as a uniformed officer and a plainclothes detective. Out of Classroom Experience Under Inquiry Droge carne to Harvard with 12 years experience in secondary-school teaching and administration. He had worked He is the author of three books, and his opinion pieces have appeared in several publications, including The Chronicle of Higher Education and the Los Angeles Times. The Brooklyn native and his wife, Mary, have a daughter. Continued from page 3~ faculty-student interaction to inspire students in all fields of study as they experience both the pleasure and pain of serious inquiry. A commitment to diversity in offerings and programs is a third clement in Union's heritage. That diversity ha.;; he-e-n c-xprC'\\ed in a variety of forms beginning with the· introduction of a \scientific course\ as an alternative to the classical course of study in the 1820's. Among current expressions of diversity that make Union unusual among peer institutions is a limited range of graduate programs which allow students the opportunity to take an additonal step beyond the tradition a! four- year undergraduate curriculum. Given our affirmation that a liberal education is the best path towards personal fulfillment, including achievement in one's work life and contribution to the larger community, Union College offers an undergraduate curriculum that it believes enables students to acquire specific sort<> of knowledge and skills as well as a lifelong commitment to learning. Students must commit themselves to a major as a means of developing mastery of a field. They must also complete general education requirements to ensure that they acquire knowledge of western culture as clements of that culture are reflected in history, literature and other areas of study. They must learn to comprehend various approaches to inquiry and understanding including the scientific 1nethod and the language of mathematics. Finally, the general education program encourages students to develop an understanding of other cultures through a variety of approaches, including the study of foreign languages and study abroa.ct. Union's extensive progarm {)f terms-abroad and exchanges gives special vitality to the College's effort in international education. The classroom, laboratory and studio are central to the intellectual and creative experiences offered to students. The Coilege also provides opportunities, resources and a larger rcsiclential environment that allow students to develop and test their capacities for personal growth in a variety of domains. Among a rich mixture ()f co-curricular activi tics are those which provide stu.dcnts opportunities for artistic expression, athletic achievcm cnl, service to the communi tr, the exercise of leadership, and discussion of issues of significance beyond the campus. Our system of residential life is evolving in the direction of greater variety in options available as a means of encouraging students to broaden their perspectives. Taken together, Union's academic program and the constellation of oppmtunities Tenure Committee Announcement A committee has been form€d to review Professor Hugh Foley of the Psychology Department for tenurability. If you have any information that you would like the committee to consider regarding this review, please contact any o1 the following committee members: Tom Werner (committee chair, Chern; r Dept.), Bill Fairchild (Math Dept.), Jim Me '\'ord (English Dept.) and t<en DeBono (Psychology Dept.). available outside the narrowly academic provide a sound basis for th.e intellectual, moral and social gmwth of students. An unedited draft of the entire self-study (two copies) is being made available for public inspection at the Circulation Desk of the Library. Copies will also be provided to the Student Forum, the Faculty Executive Committee and Chairs of each of the College's four academic divisions. I.E.F. DEADLINE The deadline for proposals for the Internal Education Foundation in two categories--student-initiated research projects and \educationally innovative projects\ is Friday, October 5, 1990. Proposals for student-initiated research projects must have the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be submitted to the Dean's office (8100, Science & Engineering Building) on forms available there. Similarly, members of the College community who have \educationally innovative\ proposals should submit them to the same office on forms available there. Forms for Faculty Research Projects are also available in the Dean's Office (8100). Guidelines with respect to the l.E.F. are available in the Dean's Office. Inquiries about I.E.F., the guidelines, or the proposal deadline should be directed to Terry Weiner. Associate Dean of Faculty. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $50. - $85. per day. 7ransportation costs should also reflect the best rates available. Students who are planning to do interviews must indicate that arrangements have already been made. If your research includes work with human subjects, then the proposal must have pre- liminary approval from the Human Subjects Research Committee before it can be funded by the Subcouncil on Research and Grants. FACULTY RESEARCH DEADLINE The Subcouncil on Research and Grants is now soliciting proposals for faculty research and scholarship activities. ApplicaLions and guide- lines are available in Dean Weiner's Office (S-100, S & E). The deadline for submission of proposals is October 5, 1990. Questions concerning the Facu1ty Research Fund should be directed to Dean Weiner .. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $50, - $85. per day. Transportation costs should also reflect the best rates available. If your research includes work with human subjects, then the pro- posal must have preliminary apaproval from the Human Subjects Research Committee before it can be funded by the Subcouncil on Research and Grants. lc (• ' ' . ! '

f ! 1.' I' II ,. r . . . . . . j. L ·s:-···A. T o, G R E · • G · M A T· :.~ . . ~·~.: . . ' ,. ~ ' - . Take the Test Prep Course that Test c·ompanies FeaP· THE The Princeton Review's students increase their scores meteorically.\ That's why every major test company has announced overhau'ls in its tests in the past two years. It's also why we're the largest SAT course in the country. Andit's why we'll soon be the largest LSAT, GMAT, and GRE course. Our classes are small (8-'12 stu- dents) and are grouped closely by shared strengths and weakliiesses (the competition packs over 40 students of allabilitiesintoaroom). Our materials are kept up-to-date by OVE!r half a million dollars of research each year. Call The Princeton .Review today. And let the test cornpar:~ies worry about you. PRINCETON REVIEW Classes for winter exams are forming now. {518} 458-8552 ext.B • Our average improvem&nts exoeerf 8 points on the LSAT's 10-48 scllle, 80 paints on the GMA T's 20D-800 scale, ISO poln Is on the SAT's 400-1600 scale, anr! 210 points on the GRE's 600-2400 seal&. The Plincuton Review is not affiliated with the Educational Testing Service or Princeton University. Don't Take Kaplan. Announcing the First Meeting of the Women's Commission Thursday, October 4, 1990 College Center, Room 406 After the Minerva Lecture 12:30 - 1 :25 (brown-bag lunch) Who is invited: All members of the Campus Community. Who are we? Representatives of students, staff, faculty and administration of Union College. What do we do? • Serve as an advisory group to the President of Union College on iss11es of importance to women on campus. • Act as a support and advocacy group for students and employees. • Spons<>r a monthly bu:lletin, FOCUS, of activities of interest to women at Union. • Sponsor Prize Day Awards for scholarship, community service and athletics. Agenda and Meeting Tim.e: This first meeting of the academic year will focus on two issues: • Agenda for the Commission for the year. • Best time and place to meet. HOPE TO SEE YOU THERE. INDIAN SUMMER Artists Outdoor Show Round Lake Village Exit 11 off the Adirondack Northway (Rt. 87) OCTOBER 13, 1990 - 12-5 PM Rain Date: October 14, 1990 FORM INFORMATION PHONE 518-899-6138 RATHS ELLAR would like to welcome everyone! We want to take this opportunity to thank all our customers for making it the BEST Autumn Ever! 'W-\n5't\ef fa;, Q .·, We want to apologize for any inconvenience and hope to serve you better as we get into full gear. A very special thanks to the very loyal workers who have endured these past two weeks. Rathskellar Theresa & Phyllis

' 1·,-. , ' ' ! ' ! I. , (, I I ' - • -· ~ • . .. .. .. \ ' • ' : J • .. CO.\'CORDlE.\'SIS; September 27, 19 1 )()' Take the Test Prell Coarse thai Test Companies Fear THE The Princeton Review's students incr-ease their scores meteorically.* That's why every major test company has announced overhauls in its tests in the past two years. It's also why we're the largest SAT course in the country. And it's why we'll soon be the largest LSAT, GMAT, and GRE course. Our classes are small (8- t2 stu- dents) and a~e grouped closely by sharedstrengths and weaknesses (the competition packs over 40 studentsofallabilitiesinto a room). Our materials are kept up-to-date by over half a million dollars of research each year. Call The Princeton Review today. And let the test companies worry about you. PRINCETON REVIEW Classes for winter exams are forming now. (518) 458-8552 ext.8 • Our average improvements exceed 8 points on the LSAT's 1 0·48 scale, 80 points on the GMA T's 200·800 scale, 150 potnts on the SAT's 400·1600 scale. and 210 points on the GRE's 600·2400 scale. The Pnr1Cf~ton Review is not affiliated wtth the Educational Testing Service or Prmceton Universtly. Don't Take Kaplan. Announcing the First Meeting of the Women's Commission Thursday, October 4, 1990 College Center, Room 406 After the Minerva Lecture 12:30 - 1:25 (brown-bag lunch) Who is invited: All members of the Campus Community. Who are we? Representatives of students, staff, faculty and administration of Union College. What do we do? • Serve as an advisory group to the President of Union College on issues of importance to women on campus. • Act as a support and advocacy group for students and employees. • Sponsor a monthly bulletin, FOCUS, of activities of interest to women at Union. • Sponsor Prize Day Awards for scholarship, community serv1ce and athletics. Agenda and Meeting Time: This first meeting of the academic year will focus on two issues: • Agenda for the Commission for the year. • Best time and place to meet. HOPE TO SEE YOU THERE. INDIAN SUMMER Artists Outdoor Show Round Lake Village Exit 11 off the Adirondack Northway (Rt. 87) OCTOBER 13, 1990 .. 12-5 PM Rain Date: October 14~ 1990 FORM INFORMATION PHONE 518-899-6138 RA THSKELLAR would like to welcome everyone! We want to take this opportunity to thank all our customers for making it the BEST Autumn Ever! ~\D.sk..ef faJ-a Q We want to apologize for any inconvenience and hope to serve you better as we get into full gear. A very special thanks to the very loyal workers who have endured these past two weeks. Rathskellar Theresa & Phyllis

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, September 27, 1990 FEATURES The Other Side Of Research By SUZANNE SHAKER Features ,Editor Last spring tetrn Union was hard hit by the issue of whether or not its professors place too much emphasis on research,. on publishing their work and not enough on teaching and addressing students needs and concerns. Altl1C)ugh the uproar that developed has subsided the concern does still exist. In my opinion, the \research bashing\ that took place against professors was carried too far. Of course~ tbere are and probably always will be some professors wbose primary concern is n()t tlle students, but is to insure tha.t their work becomes published. On the other hand, there are also those professors who truly care about their students. They have chosen to be surrounded by students because they genuinely enjoy educating others, through the sharing and exchanging of knowledge and ideas. Research and teaching should not be an either-or decision. Although the two do often come into conflict they may actually coexist and enhance each other quite well. Research tends to stimulate both professors and students. Most professors are eager to share the results of their research with their students. Developments discovered by professors through research often become integrated into class lectures and become an imP.ortant part of the course curriculum. According to a letter printed. in the New York Times· by Joseph E. lllick, a Professor of history at San Francisco State University, \ ... there is really no conflict between teaching and research; these activities are mutually nurturing.\ It is the motive behind the research that can become the dangerous factor. When the desire to pursue interests and increase know ledge through research is carried out solely for the purpose of becoming published and not for the Looking for the Green Light By CA..RL R. FRIEDRICH, JR. Looking into the distance, the sun appeared half- swallowed by the tranquil sea, causing it to bleed across a beautiful sky. A warm breeze blew back our hair, and the water splasheci gently against the shoreline. Somewhere across the tranquil sea, soldiers were preparing to kill each other. A professor at school once said, \1 predict the next major war will be fought over natural res<>urces.\ Not too profound, a1aybe, but that thought loome-d heavily in my mind on that day. That arid scene was far away from us, :however,· and our lobsters were d.one. The twelve- pack of Lite slow! y approached a similar fate.lhe well-to-do at the table 11.e:xt to us were toasting to a good round of golf, at a hundred bucks a bottle. The sunlight gave a reddish tinge to their bubbly, and for that I was grateful. The restaurant was a great idea. Some old lobster fisherman decided to throw some ta.bles on his dock with a view, and boil some shellfish for the delight of the beautiful people. It was simple (you even had to BYO), quiet, and nice--one of the tamer areas of Long Island's esteemed East End. The summer had been long, but on this Labor Day, a strange feeling of finality loomed over the table. Especially because of a tinny radio, tuned into t11e weather station in the kitchen, reported good weather for at least a week more. Red sky at night, sailor's delight (For at least a week more. Then?). Out on that tranquil sea, I knew there were hospital ships, ready to write letters home to the once proud paTents, signed Semper Phi. Senior year was a week away, but the worries didn't have the ID to get on that pier that day. As long as we stayed there, it would be O.K. The gentle winds were pushing us back to the land, as I cracked open the last of the cans. \To us,\ I said, because it was all I could get out. My friends raised their beers, they were too sad to pout. Yes, the pressure was upon us to do all we could do, and the last of the summer vacations was drawing to a close, and we were as afraid of next June as we were of our draft cards. Two of our four said we'd go. But on this day we were safe, out here on the docks, our only foes being the sea gulls, looking for scraps of our Yuppie-wanna-be meal. Then again, you can't see beyond the horizon with the naked eye. Yes, life is getting serious. I proposed to walk to the end of the dock to say good-bye to this special place which is now but a memory. No one seemed to mind when I pushed them all in the water. Would You Like To Learn How To Meditate? Meditation reduces stress and improves concentration. MEDITATION STUDY GROUP EVERY THURSDAY AT 4 PM IN COLLEGE CENTER 410 Beginners are welcome any time during Instructions on how to meditate at the start of every meeting . term. . g1ven the are purpose of educating the students, ,it is at this point that the balance between teaching and resemch has been lost. Professors are not the only ones at Union who are actively involved in research. There is also great opportunity. for students to conduct research projects. Last winter and spring· terms I had the opportunity to do an independent study with a professor· in the psychology department and this past summer I continued my research from the previous terms. through a Dana fellowship. The experience of working closely with someone V'~::> i\' incredibly knowledgeable in a field of study that I am very interested in, but just beginning to really discover and more fully understand, was ·so much more informative and interesting than simply studying out of a teaxtbook. I feel as though through my research I was able to explore aspects of psychology that I never would have discovered otherwise. Although Union does expect its professors to engage in research it also encourages its students as well to become involved in research projects through independent study, theses and summer fellowships. ANTIOCH NEW ENGLAND TO HOST INFORMATION SESSION ON MONDAY, OCTOBER 15 IN MENANDS, NY ON MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS OFFERED AT BENNINGTON, VT SITE Antioch New England Graduate School will host an Information Session to discuss its programs in Management at the Graduate School's new downtown .Bennington, VT Site. The Information Session will be held at Days Inn· Albany/Menands, 575 Broadway, · Menands, NY on Monday, October 15 at 5:30PM. Antioch New England's management programs emphasize the development of leadership skills. Graduates of the Graduate School have a track record cf successfully implementing needed changes within public and private sector organizations. People working lull-time will find that the course worl< is structured so that they can complete a management degree within 15 or 20 months without .interrupting employment. In Bennington, classes are held one evening per week, with occasional weekend workshops at the Graduate Center in Keene, NH. For further information, call Bennington Site Director Nancy Howes, Ph.D., at (518) 692·9836 or the Antioch New England Admissions Office at (603) 357·3122. HOMECOMING '90 JOIN us TODAY to help plan HOMECOMING '90 Thursday, September 27 at 4:00 in CC409. AnnouncLng EDUCATIONAL STUDIES PROGRAM INFORMATION MEETINGS T11esday, October 9th Meetings at 10:00 AM 12:00 Noon and 3:30PM in College Center Room 205 )91@.~@ 8 ~·2'1. ~~@g'@ffi@@ 0 C) 0 Students who are considering careers in secondary school teaching for grades 7-12 in English, modern or c:assic · languages, mathematics, science (biology, chemistry, earth science, physics, or general science) or social s::adies should attend. Information will be given regardi~.g the undergraduate, graduate, and five-year combined cegree programs. I l

CONCORDIENSIS, September 27, 1990 Page 7 By KAREN BURNS How many times has one heard the familiar question: \What do you want to do after graduation?\ Is there .some reason why every parent, grandparent, brother, sister, aunt, uncle, coach, family friend or strang.er feels obligated to confuse the college student even more than they already are about their options (or lack ot) after college? The comical side of the issue is that they think they are asking obvious, easy to answer questions. The reality of the situation is that it only makes the student feel more pressured and clueless about their future. FEATURES • en1or It takes time for one to realize that the four years of college do not last forever. The real panic begins in the fall of senior year. The forewarnings came in the form of the questions which started sophomore year with \what are you majoriBg in?\ A good example of this scenario is the English major who is met with the same response every time: \Oh you want to teach?\ The question can no longer be avoided. If one does not want to teach then what are the other opportunities available? There are numerous options for one to explore but the problem is getting started and whether or not it is too late. The CDC notices announcing resume workshops, career festivals and on-campus recruiting are no longer shoved into the bottoms of knapsacks. They are treasured pieces of paper. It is not that having a resume can automatically get one a job. However, it is reassuring to know that an initial step on the career path has been made. lt is just as easy to escape the resume ordeal by planning to take a year off after graduation, or continuing one's education. These students have not \lucked out\ yet because they may have to take the LSATs, MCATs, or GREs. The student who plans to • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • HOMECOMING '90 Enter a FLOAT in the HOMECOMING PARADE will be awarded in four catagories Be a part of the fun! Call the Al,umn.i Office for Details . 370-6168 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •••••••••••••••••••• • an1c attend graduate school may assume that the more degrees they have increases the likelihood of them getting a job (sometime in the futtne). How is one supposed to know EXACTLY what t!lley want to do after graduation'? There are those students who have directed majors suc11 as engineers. However, they may easily change their career pla:ns. A student who expresses an interest in attend Law/ Meclical/ Graduate School is met with the question of \which one? .. It is as if the student is suppoose<l to be able to predict their test scores enough to decide where they will be accepted. The senior year panic may not be felt by all students. Although, every student feels a heightened sense of responsibility as the year begins. The immediate goals of a student may be their senior thesis or standardized tests or a resume. The point is that the four years are coming to an end and one must face the future. There are plenty of opportunities available. The problem is deciding which option is most appealing or realistic. In the meantime, it is easy to avoid the annoying questions by offering clever answers which really give the person something to think about. [F)fru@[M]@ua©OOC\LL OOJLA\W Wednesday, October 3 The Homecoming T-shirt will debut, as well as [fJ ® !}J @ ® [f [j[J @[j[J@J [}{/ @ [JiJjJ @ @ @ [M} u [JiJ ® @J(Jj] qq@[j[J @o \A A New President, New Decade, A New 'U'\ HOMECOMING '90, OCTOBER 12, 13, 14

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, September 27,. 1990 ----~-------------- ~~------------------~--------------~~---- INTERNATIONAL FEA'TURES \It's A Small World After All\ By JILL PHILLIPS Eighteen students from different countries around the world are here at Union, adding culture to our college. There are five students from England, two from Germany, and one from both Scotland and Japan, who will be spending the fall term here. There are also two students from the USSR, 4 from China, a student from France, and a student from Mexico, who will fortunately be with us for the entire year. When experiencing another culture for the first time, it is not always the big differences which strike one first. But it's the small things that the average person does or sees each day, and doesn't give a second thought to, which foreigners find most fascinatiLg. One of the most striking first impressions of the US was that the cars here are larger and there is a larger range of colors of cars on the road, and that the streets are broader. It is interesting to discover all the new brands in the \the faucets in the bathroom turn the wrong way.\ supermarkets, and choices of newspapers and magazines sold. Even the money is \an unusual size and color.\ Several students from England said that we \put the keys in the locks upsidedown,\ and \the faucets in the bathroom turn the wrong way.\ There are differences between the humor in the US and in England. One English student claims that \the American sense of humor is far HOMECOMING '90 Enter a FLOAT in the HOMECOMING PARADE $ $ $ PRIZES$$$ will be awarded in four catagories Be a part of the fun I Call the Alumni Office for details 370-6168. more obvious, whereas back home jokes are often subtle with hidden meaning.\ In England, insulting one another is a common form of humor. But most shocking of all to foreigners seems to be the wide variety of nationalities in the U.S. Although it was expected, it is found peculiar to actually see so many people of different origins living together. \there are a lot of cartoons in the Soviet Union.\ Many cultural differences discovered are at the university level. For instance, some of the new exchange students find it advantageous that the classes are relatively small. It is surprising that American ·students speak up and voice their opinion so much in class. This allows one to hear other students' points of view, which is not always common in the classroom in other countries. Also, that students can easily meet· with their professor to discuss class material. One reason for this, as both the students from Mexico and France explained,_ the university in their countries is considered a center of research. Professors thus spend a considerable amount of their working time doing research which leaves little time for personal interaction with their students. Another observation on the education system at Union is that there are fewer hours of classes per day than at their universities. Also, class work is examihed far more frequently with quizzes and homework assignments, whereas students are often graded by one exam at the end of the term in other countries. The emphasis on sports here was also unexpected. In France, students don't really have the time to be a full-time student and practice sports at the same time since classes take up most of the day. There is a lot to be discovered about other countries--many differences and similarities-~many false stereotypes we often hear about other nationalities to be unlearned.... Did you know that in Mexico .they don't drink tequila that much, beer is a lot more poputar? that a good beer in the USSR is \Moscovskoye Gigulevskoye\? there are a lot of cartoons in the Soviet Union? ••• So, take the time to learn about other~ cultures. There are lots of things out of the usual to talk about. Term Abroad in Germany This Spring ••• Consider it now The application deadline for Union's German Term Abroad in Freiburg is nearing -- October 29th. Where is Freiburg? It is bordered on the south by Switzerland and on the west by France. It is otherwise known as \the Pearl of the Black Forest\ since the city is in the Black Forest in the South of Germany. Some major attractions near the Black Forest are: Basel, Switzerland, Strasbourg, France, and the Alsace region. Students going to Freiburg Nill attend the Goeth-lnstitut, a renowned language institute which dates back to the 12th century. The courses the Freiburg students will take are \Civilization Arts, and Arcllitecture,\ taught by Prof. Warde along with language instructions with students from all over the world. As if all this doesn't sound like enough, there will also be several trips (included in the cost of the term) to major cultural centers: Munich, Heidelberg, Speyer, Prague, etc. Another attraction is that students participating in the Spring term may spend extra time in Europe during the summer without spending additional air fare. For further information, contact the Terms Abroads Office, Hu.211 APPLICATIONS DUE: Od. 29 ? Did You Know? ~ 1. Currency in Aruba is square. 2. At German wedding receptions, the groom's friends kidnap his bride and take her to a bar to drink until her groom finds her, and then must pick up the tabo 3. In France, it costs more to have a poodle's hair cut than a persons. 4. Dogs in the Soviet Union have to wear a muzzle in the streets because they are \angry\. 5. In England, a bridal shower is called a \hen party\. . . . u'. -.\ ..... ~ .D~r Afom, How are 1hi119> haclr hom~ ? p,., ela;n3 pretty jooel·· J)r:a r If/om, flow ar-.. ihitrJS back hom~~~ ''n doi~ pr~tfl \'fCJQC' /)ea,r /11om, \\===1!==::::1 How ar(\ tnmss btlc.l( home ? :Ptn doi'!J prcrlf; sood .. !Jet:~r J11o\J_ • . i. ~.' r

i. f r I' CONCORDIENSIS, September 27, 1990 Page 9 lNTERNATIONAL FEATURES International Trivia House of Perpetual Commotion (otherwise known as International House) of the Week 1. What country did walloons call home? 2.. Wbere's the Gum Department Store? 3. What nationality were the 123 people who died in the Black Hole? 4. What European country produces . Baccarat Crystal? 5. What two countries have citi,es caned Sault St. Marie? Answers: ·s·a aq:J puu upu11e3 (·s aau1u.i (\J;' qSJl!JU (\£ M.OJSOJ\1 (\l WD!~I3U (\J B-y LARAE TUMIDAJEWICZ A strange man is running around the floor yelling, \take a bit of my banana.\ The man is Andrey Fyodorov from the Soviet Union and the place is the International House. Located on the second floor of Webster House, the International House contains foreign exchange students living one-on-one with American hosts. This year's residents include students from England, Scotland, Germany, France, and the Soviet Union. A typical evening at the International House is an unforgettably bizarre experience. We usually sit around in the lounge discussing some unusual topic and eating. One night we were eating Stuffing stolen apples into our pockets • that's the American way. German \choo crossies\ and the German gumrnie bears in silence. Alan from York, England, broke into the silence. \Do you know that most unusual thing about Au Revoir Les Enfants {Goodbye, Children) A Film By Louis Malle The 1st October at 7:30 p.m. at the College Center 4th Floor * French with English subtitles * Free admission America? You call ~he toilet a bathroom. There is no bath in there, unless you are a dwarf and want to swim around in tire bowl.\ Laughter filled the lounge and this led to a long Do you know the most unusual thing about America? You call tbe toilet a bathroom. There is no batb in there, unl~ss you are a dwarf and want to swim in the bowl. discussion about the differences in the lavatory facilities around the world. Recently the students took their first field trip to Indian Ladder Farms to pick apples. Although we drove the security van around in circles trying to find the apple farm, it was definitely worth the trip. Several exchange students climbed the trees, disregarding warnings not to do so. Tllen they proceeded to throw apples at their American hosts because there were no free donuts and cider as promised. Before we left the orchard, we stuffed our bags and pockets with apples. Sneaking away with stolen apples taught them the American way of getting the most for their money. The International House has plans for many other activities. Trips to shows at Proctor's, night clubs, food fests, and a hay ride are on the agenda for the upcoming weeks. Any international student on campus is welcome to join us on these trips. The house members arc also planning visits to New York City, Lake Placid, and Boston. The International students can be seen all over the campus. Jorg from Germany and Alan from England arc working at the Dutch Hollow in the evenings. Vicki from the Soviet Union serves food at the upperclass dining hall. Sabine, Xavier, and Claudia arc teaching assistants for German, French, and Spanish respectively. Everyone is welcome to stop by the International House any time to absorb some different cultures, learn astounding new things that will never be written in the textbooks, and just to share a few laughs with our neighbors across the world. Write for International Features Call Jill 6833 Larae 6836 .,g,.··'.:·.·.·.e··.· . '::-: .· : : ·<:.-.-- rMe ··•. · · · .. :·Q.· ·. ·:,·····e',:. '.··h· ~·e· :· ··d···· · u···. · ·1· · e· · .. · o·· .. ···· . ~d,r ___ ,_ 3 ~ -,_;- ,_ r--~ ~;,.;~->--: ·---> .. '\- -. ~- -~ ·: - ~ -_ ~· 12:30-1:30 ... CIDNESE li:~fl'\'1.:·30... SPANISH : .---·. :-··· - -. JAPANESE .. ···•-.' ~D'D'*M. \N. :· m<·u·iDA-t!fl~----- -_: ':- ,,-- ' . .. _- ..

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, September 27, 1990 SCIENCE & TECHN,OLOGY Science Fiction Becomes Science Fact Marlne Studies Term Abroad S·pring Term By JOHN O'KEEFE Science fiction writers have long since been recognized for their uncanny ability to foresee and predict future technologies and societies. Men were walking on the moon in books long before Neil Armstrong put his foot down in the lunar dust. Now scientists have taken a major stride in the use of chemical hungry micro- organisms to battle Earth's deadly pollution and contamination problems. Microbiologists at Michigan State University have released details of experiments with a remarkable little spore making fungus called Phanerochate chrysospomum, better known as white rot fungus. Enzymes and bacteria have been used for some years to degrade certain toxic wastes but these cannot handle the really tough ones such as DDT, Dioxin and aromatic and chlorinated compound chemicals known to be non- biodegradable and extremely hazardous to health. The white rot organisms reduce them to harmless carbon dioxide in water or soil. Even more, they can create a kind of chain reaction system of free radicals that bum up toxic compounds on their own, spreading out from the initial white rot organisms. This development completely parallels an idea outlined by L. Ron Hubbard in his best-selling 10 volume science fiction series Mission Earth. The basic plot of the series is that aliens come to earth to save it from destruction by pollution. The solution is to use wind blown spores that eat up the trillion plus tons of pollutants and chemicals now in earth's atmosphere. The spores are self-reproducing and global winds spread the spores throughout the stratosphere. Book 9 (Villainy Victorious) released on August 6 along with it's companion volume 9 audio cassette, is part of an unprecedented science fiction tour-de-force by one of the genres great innovators. It captivates the reader and holds his attention through all ten adventure-packed volumes. Through the eyes of aliens, Hubbard explores with biting wit and satire such crucial social issues as drugs, sexual promiscuity, political corruption, erA and IRS Dirty Tricks, planetary pollution and· its headlong destruction of Earth's fragile web of life. This best-selling science fiction saga tells the story of a Royal Combat Engineer, Jettero Heller, sent from the planet Voltar on a mission to save Earth. The Voltarians intend to invade Earth in the future, but they are concerned Earth might blow itself up first or destroy its ecology with pollution before they ex.ecute their plan. The pollution eating spores are just one of the advanced pieces of Voltar technology Heller introduces to Earth to save it from destruction. But STUDY FOR ONE YEAR OR FOR ONE OR TWO TERMS IN OXFORD Several colleges of Oxford University have Invited the Wash· ington International Studies Council to recommend qualified students to study for one year or for one or two terms. Lower Junior status is required. and graduate study is available. Stu· dents are directly enrolled in their colleges and re<:elve transcripts from their Oxford college: this is NOT a program conducted by a U.S. College in Oxford. 3.2 minimum index in major required. An alternative program which is sponsored by a U.S. Univer· sity is available for students with minimum indexes of 2.7. Stu· dents will have social and athletic rights in an Odord college. and the fees are substantially less. Written evaluations are available from Oxford students who have previously studied most subjects at most leading U.S. col· leges. Telephone talks with students from your college (or in your field) can usually be arranged by WlSC. INTERN IN WASHINGTON, LONDON WISC offers summer internships with Congress, with the White House. with the media and with think tanks. Govern- ment and Journalism courses are taught by senior-level gov- ernment officials. who are also scholars. and by experienced journalists. Similar opportunities In public policy Internships are offered (with academic credit) ln London (Fall. Spring and Summer). The Washington International Studies CouncU 214 Massachusetts Ave .. N.E .. Suite 450 Washington. D.C. 20002 (202) 547-3275 not only does Heller have to fight villains from vested interests on planet Earth, he is targeted for elimination by the head of Voltar's secret police, who plans to destroy the rulers of Voltar and take over as Emperor. To help him do this he secretly exports Earth's drugs, sexual promiscuity, psychiairlc und public relations control methods to Voltar. Bermuda Cape Cod Gulf of Maine Schooner Expedition For more information Contact: Prof. Kaplan, Soc. Dept or Terms Abroad Office Villainy Victorious, like the 8 volumes preceding it, is a fast-paced adventure that takes place on two planets. This, the 9th volume, portrays what happens to the alien Voltarian culture when Earth's illegal drugs, psychiatrists and unscrupulous public relations man and the queen of Sexual Promiscuity on Earth are transported to Voltar to corrupt the rulers. When you read the Mission earth books you'll never again have the same viewpoint of the way we live on Earth. And it could be that - like Hubbard's ideas of using spores to solve pollution - his other ideas for dealing with our most pressing social problems are equally right on the button? One thing is for certain, you'll get as much enjoyment out of reading Mission earth as Hubbard had in writing it. HOWARD HUGHES MEDICAL I~STITUTE 1991 PREDOCTORAL FELLOWSHIPS IN BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES 66 FELLOWSHIPS \ill be awarded for full-timestudytoward a Ph.D. orSc.D. degree in biological sciences. Awards are for three years, with extensior1 possible for two additional years of full suprort. Stipends will be $13,500 annually. effec- tive June 1991, and an $11,700 annual cost·of-~ducation allowance will be provided to the fellowship institution on behalf of each fellow. • Eligible Fields of Study Include: biochemistry biophysics biostatistics cell biology developmental biology epidemiology genetics immunology mathematical biology microbiology molecular biology neuroscience phannacology physiology structural biology virology The fellowships are intended for students who have completed less than one year of graduate study toward M.S., Ph.D., orSc.D. degr~es in biological scier1ces. Stu- dents who hold or are pursuing medical or dental <legrees (~I.D., D.O., D.V.M., D.D.S.) may also be eligible to apply for fellowshipst~pport .for study toward the Ph.D. or Sc.D. There are no citizenship requirements, but foreign nationals must study in the United States. • The Application Deadline is November 9 1 1990. This international fellowship competition is administered by the 1\ational Research Council. For copies of the Progr·am Armotmcement or Applications: Telephone (202) 334-2872 Write Hughes Predoctor.al Fellowships The Fellowship Offiee J'iational Resear~h Coundl 2101 Constitution Avenue Washington, D.C. 2{)418 (nitcd States of Arnerica Tht> Institute Yielcom~s appll.,aiions rrom nil qualined persons and encourage~ women and members of minority groups to apply.

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, September 27, 1990 SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY Science Fiction Becomes Science Fact Marine Studies Term Abroad Spring Term By JOHN O'KEEFE Science fiction writers have long since been recognized for their uncanny ability to foresee and predict future technologies and societies. Men were walking on the moon in books long before Neil Armstrong put his foot down in the lunar dust. Now scientists have taken a major stride in the use of chemical hungry micro- organisms to battle Earth's deadly pollution and contamination problems. Microbiologists at Michigan State University have released details of experiments with a remarkable little spore making fungus called Phanerochatc chrysospomum, better known as white rot fungus. Enzymes and bacteria have been used for some years to degrade certain toxic wastes but these cannot handle the really tough ones such as DDT, Dioxin and aromatic and chlorinated compound chemicals known to be non- biodegradable and extremely hazardous to health. The white rot organisms reduce them to harmless carbon dioxide in water or soil. Even more, they can create a kind of chain reaction system of free radicals that bum up toxic compounds on their own, spreading out from the initial white rot organisms. This development completely parallels an idea outlined by L. Ron Hubbard in his best-selling 10 volume science fiction series Mission Earth. The basic plot of the series is that aliens come to earth to save it from destruction by pollution. The solution is to use wind blown spores that eat up the trillion plus tons of pollutants and chemicals now in earth's atmosphere. The spores are self-reproducing and global winds spread the spores throughout the stratosphere. Book 9 (Villainy Victorious) released on August 6 along with it's companion volume 9 audio cassette, is part of an unprecedented science fiction tour-de-force by one of the genres great innovators. It captivates the reader and holds his attention through all ten adventure-packed volumes. Through the eyes of aliens, Hubbard explores with biting wit and satire such crucial social issues as drugs, sexual promiscuity, political corruption, CIA and IRS Dirty Tricks, planetary pollution and its headlong destruction of Earth's fragile web of life. This best-selling science fiction saga tells the story of a Royal Combat Engineer, Jettero Heller, sent from the planet Voltar on a mission to save Earth. The Voltarians intend to invade Earth in the future. but they are concerned Earth might blow itself up first or destroy its ecology with pollution before they execute their plan. The pollution eating spores are just one of the advanced pieces of Voltar technology Heller introduces to Earth to save it from destruction. But STl'DY FOR ONE ~'EAR OR FOR ONE OR TWO TERMS IN OXFORD Several colleges of Oxford University have invited the Wash- ington International Studies Council to recommend qualified students to study for one year or for one or two terms. Lower Junior status 1s required. and graduate study is available. Stu- dents are directly enrolled in their colleges and receive transcripts from their Oxford college: this is NOT a program conducted by a U.S. College in Oxford. 3.2 minimum index in major required. An alternative program which is sponsored by a U.S. Univer- sit v is available for students with minimum indexes of 2.7. Stu- de~ts will have social and athletic rights in an Oxford college. and the fees an· substantially less. Written evaluations arc available from Oxford students who have previously studied most subjects at most leading U.S. col- leges. TelephonE~ talks with students from your college (or in your field) can usually be arranged by WISC. INTERN IN WASHINGTON, LONDON WJSC offers summer internships with Congress. with the White House. with the media and with think tanks. Govern· ment and Journalism courses are tau~ht by senior-level gov· ernment officials. who are also scholars. and by experienced journalists. Similar opportunities in public policy Internships are offered [with academic credit) in London {Fall. Spring and Summer). The Washington International Studies Council 214 Massachusetts Ave .. N .E .. Suite 450 Washington. D.C. 20002 (2021 547-3275 not only does Heller have to fight villains from vested interests on planet Earth, he is targeted for elimination by the head of Voltar's secret police, who plans to destroy the rulers of Voltar and take over as Emperor. To help him do this he secretly exports Earth's drugs, sexual promiscuity, psychiatric r.nd public relations control methods to Voltar. Villainy Victorious, like the 8 volumes preceding it, is a fast-paced adventure that takes place on two planets. This, th.e 9th volume, portrays what happens to the alien Voltarian culture when Earth's illegal drugs, psychiatrists and unscrupulous public rclatio11s man and the queen of Sexual Promiscuity on Earth arc transported to Voltar to com1pt the rulers. When you read the Miss ion earth books you 'II never again have the same viewpoint of the way we live on Earth. And it could be that - like Hubbard's ideas of using spores to sDlve pollution - his other ideas for dealing with our most pressing social problems are equally right on the button? One tlling is for certain, you'll get as much enjoyment out of reading Mission earth as Hubbard had in writing it. Bermuda Cape Cod Gulf of Maine Schooner Expedition For more information Contact: Prof. Kaplan, Soc. Dept or Terms Abroad Office Mafi An Ad Hoc ·Committee has been formed to consider the tenurability of Professor Mohammad Mafi of the Department of Civil Engineering. Any member of the college community with information that could be helpful to the ·Committee in compteting its task, is requested to contact one of its members-Professors Barbara Boyer., Biole>gy;· ·· ·f!lRra·m H'a:ssrb, · .!l'e,etrical . Engin$er;i·n·Q· .. and· ·co.mp.ut.Elr ..... Sci.ance; Thom'as····dewen · OivU· ·En~tflleering· • or· . . . . ' . . ~·. . . ' . . · Mant~e:d JepJ~S;,···1WistOt¥t(Cb·airr).~·, I.IOWARD HCCHES :\1EDICAL 1\STITCTE 1991 PREDOCTORAL FELLOWSHIPS IN BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES 66 FELLOWSHIPS \·ill bf' m1.ardt>rl for full-time \tudv to\' ani a Ph.D. or s,·.D. • l\i!fi''' in biOio¢cal sciences. Award\ ar<' for thn•p yt>ar~. \'ith P\tf'nsion pnssihlt> ror tv. II additional ypar;; of full support. Stip~>llll, will bl' $ 13.:)00 annuall~. pffl'f'- tilf• Jurw 1'1111. and an $11.700 annual cost-of-t>ducation allowatH't' will br prmidr·d to tlw ff'llov..ship institution on brhalf of l'ach ff'llo\\. • Eligible Fields of Study Include: hi()rhrnu\trv hi<>physiPs bin:.tat bt iPs crll biology drvelopmf'ntal hiolo~ Ppi dPmiolo~· ~rrwti•·, i rn 111 UIWiog~ math•·matical binlo~;. miPrnhiulogy molecular biology nPuroscienPt' phanmwology physiology struPtural biology virology The frllowsltips an· inwndPd for stud£>nts who haw Pnmplt>trd Irs- than one year of ~raduatP study toy, an! ~I.S .. Ph.D .. or Sr .D. df•grt>rs in biologiPal sril'tlf'l's. Stu- flerrts who hold or an• pursuing medical or dPntal dPgrt>es (\I.D .. D.O .. D.\' .\1.. fl. n.s.) !TillY also bP f'Jigifl[p tO apply for frllowship support for sturiy tOward tht' Plt.D. or Se.D. -nun• arP no citizen~hip n·quirl'mrrtts, but for<'ign nationab must study in tlw t'nited State~. • The Application Deadline is November 9, 1990. lhio illtl'f!JU(jonal fpJiowship rrlfllfH'lition is administPrf'd b\ the :\ational Research Counr·il. For mpirs of the Prowarn i\nnoum·PmPnt nr .\pplin1tions: l'dephonP (202) :!:!4·287:! llugh••s l'n·doctoral Frllnw~hip; The Fellow,hip ()rfj,.,. :\a tiona( Researr·h Council 2101 Constitution Avr·nuf' Wa>hington. D.C. 20418 l. nited States of A mPriPa 1'11(' Institute weh·omrs applir•fltion• from ull <jtmlified persons and en•·ouragt>s women and ntt\mbers of minority groups to apply.

. . CONCORDIENSIS, September 27, 1990 Page 11 SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY Union College Will Host International Astronomy Conferenc-e About 40 astronomers wiH participate in an international confere nee on precision photometry from Oct ·3 to 5 at Union College's College Center auditorium, sponsored by union's Physics Department and Van Vleck Observatory of -Wesleyan University, Middletown, Conn. The conference will focus on the use of charge-coupled devices to measure the brightness of stars. Scientists from the United States, Mexico, Canada, Holland, Spain, Switzerland and other nations will participate. For more .information, contact A.G. Davis Philip through the Union College Physics Department at 370-6254. SATELLITE CONFERENCE AT UNION COLLEGE! All students and faculty are invited to attend televised presentations sponsored by I.E.E.E. These conferences will be held from 12 p.m. - 3 p.m. (The place is to be announced). The dates and their topics are as follows: Oct. 3 Nov. 7 Dec. 5 Computer Graphics Simulation Applications of Optic Fiber Technology We are privileged to be holding the conference at. Union College therefore we hope many students will attend!! \I think you should be more explicit here in step two.\ Operation Desert Shield, Energy Policy and Car Tires Courtesy of Prof. Frank Wicks The world consumes about 50,000;000 barrels of oil per day. The United States daily cons,umption is about 16,000;000 barrels, with about a SO'o/1J dependency upon imports. Almost two thirds of United States oil consumption is used to power transportation, with the largest share used by 171.000 registered private cars and trucks. The August occupation of Kuwait by Iraq has resulted in a Unit~d States and United Natio.ns embargo, which is blocking 4,300,000 barrels of oil per day, that was the comb·ined export from these two countries. Armed forces have also been deployed, with code name Desert Shield, to prot~ct neighboring Saudi Arabia, which had been prodmcing 5.5 million barrels per day, and with the potential for taking counter military action against Iraq. The immediate domestic impact has been seen in higher oil and gasoline prices, and a United States Department of Energy short term strategy of encouraging conservation, by a combination of urging Americans to drive their more efficient vehicles, obey speed limits and assure that tires are inflated to recommended pres&UreS. Tile government is sup{J(>rting this strategy with a \I)() Your Part, Drive Smart\ televi!;ion ad campaign. One The Scholarshiu television ad shows a gigantic oil gusher that is not coming from a well, but bursting forth from the value of a tire, while the announcer tells viewers that by simply increasing the air pressure in their tires, they can save 50,.000 barrels of oil per day. Union College Mechanical Enginee.ring Professor Frank Wicks and student Wayne Sheets decided to investigate the basis and validity of the government's tire pressure claims. Their procedure has been to talk to personnel at the United States Department of Energy and at the tire manufacturing company research laboratories, along with performing independent tests to estimate tbe energy loss from under inflated tires. The Department of Energy informed the Union College Researchers that there was no single definitive study to support their claims, but their primary source was information from various states and tire manufacturers, and that they w<>uld be very interested in any results obtained at Union College. The tire company researcher noted that tire performance has been very much improved. The bias tires of 20 years ago had a rolling resistance of up to 25 pounds per 1,000 pounds of vehicle weight, while the best new radial tires have a resistance of about 6 pounds per 1,000 pounds of weight. It was also noted that rolling resistance varies inversely with tire pressme, which means that EligibilitY \ . ··--··-·- half recommended pressure in the tire wiU double the tire rolling resistance. Professor Wicks and Wayne Sheets performed the independent tests by means of coast down time tests on a vehicle with various tire pressures. By using Sir Isaac Newton's Laws of Motion, the total slowing down force was calculated, along with the tire pressure dependent component of the total force. From this force and velocity, along with estimates of the engine and drive train efficiency in converting gasoline to vehicle driving power, they were able to calclllate a mile per gallon penalty for soft tires that is consistent with the Department of Energy estimates. Additional planned research is to perform a statistical survey of how actual tire pressures compare with recommended pressures for a significant number of vehicles. Along with reporting these results to the Department of Energy~ the Union College researchers have two recommendations that they believe would help serve energy conservation cause. One recommendation is that new tires should be sold with a required energy efficiency rating similar t() appliances and new vehicles. The second recommendation is that all gas stations should be required to have tire air pumps available for customers, that are free of charge. The $1,000 scholarship is awarced on the basis of merit and c-haracter :::J an individual who is a full-tune, graduate student enrolled in a progr;n:;J. of stuC.y in the water supply field which leads to a Master's or higher degree J.t an accredited college or university :n the t: nited States. Preference is given to applicants whose courses of studv are considered :o be beneficial to water works pnctice in :-iew York State (e.g., engineering design, utility management or regulation, treatment plant operation). The award will be presented to the recipient at the annual Spring Meeting of the Section. An applic~t must be a graduate student enrolled as 1 fuil-ume marriculated student in a Master's or higher program at an accredited college or university m the United States. Acade!llic achievement is a rna jor factor in the selection process, however, there are no minimum requirements. Appropriate wei<>ht . . 0 IS given to a student's extracurricular activities such as participation in student chapters of professional societies and work experience in the water supply field. The applicant's course work in areas related to a career in the water supply field and interest in water supply related research will be considered. Awardee's Oblig:ation Acceptance of the :1ward does not obligate the awardee to enter the water works field as 1 a career, however. such acceptance does; obligate the awardee to diligently pursue his/her '-Vater w()rks related course of study through the award year. The awardee will be encouraged by the Student Activities Cornminee to prepare and present technical papers on water supply, treatment and distribution, and water utility management during the Section's technical programs. Financial need will be a factor in seiection only in cases where all other factors appear equal. In no case sh:ill the award in combination with other scholarships or fellow&hips exceed the cost of tuition, textbooks, and other scholasnc fees. Application Fonm The applicatiorl deadline is :-lovember 15, 1990. Application fonns are available from: De. Anthony G. Collins 202 Rowley LOO Clarkson Univemty Potsdam.. NY 13699 Mr. Charles V. Seal, Jr U.S. Pipe & Foundry Compmy P.O. !lox 307 Trurytawn. NY 10591 RUSSELL L. SUTPHEN SCHOLARSHIP FUND American Water Works Association New York State Section 1991

CONCORDJENSIS, September 27, 1990 P'age 11 SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY Union College Will Host International Astronomy Confe,rence About 40 astronomers wHI participate in an international conference on precision photometry from Oct. 3 to 5 at Union CoUege's College Center auditorium, sponsored by union's Physics Department and Van Vleck Observatory of Wesleyan University, Middletown, Conn. The conference will focus on the use of charge-coupled devices to measure the brightness of stars. Scientists from the United States, Mexico, Canada, Holland, Spain, Switzerland and other nations will participate. For more information, contact A.G. Davis Philip through the Union College Physics Departrn e nt at 370-6254. THE CHEMISTRY CRISIS CENTER When: Tuesdays and Thursdays, 7-9 p.m. *STARTING TUESDAY. SEPTEMBER 25TH , __ Whete: Qherrti~1~ ~iJ>!ary ... - ___ .- (9330, SCJ,ENCE. & ENGl'NEEFUNG t!LDG} ,. IF ·Vf>U; ·tfl!liiJ>- H&L.P WITH CNEMISTRY : '1D ·Oft SO; SfGP. BYII b •. , \\· . ,, '\' ., '''\'' _, ,, :.: . \ '\\ ,,,.,,.~~ , . , ,,,::: '\?}'/ ' : ' SATELLITE CONFERENCE AT UNION COLLEGE! All students and faculty are invited to attend televised presentations sponsored by I.E.E.E. These conferences will be held from 12 p.m.- 3 p.m. (The place is to be announced). The dates and their topics are as follows: Oct. 3 N O'V. 7 Dec. 5 Computer Graphics Simulation Applications of Optic Fiber Technology We are privileged to be holding the conference at. Union College therefore we hope many students wtll attend!! \[ think you should be more explicit here in step two.\ Operation Desert Shield, Energy Policy and Car Tires Courtesy of Prof. Frank Wicks The world consumes about 50,000,000 barrels of oil per day. The United States daily consumption is about 16,000,000 barrels, with about a 50% dependency upon imports. Almost two thirds of United States oil consumption is used to power transportation, with the largest share used by 171,000 registered private cars and trucks. The August occupation of Kuwait by Iraq has resulted in a United States and United Nations embargo, which is blocking 4,300,000 barrels of oil per day, that was the combined export from these two countries. Armed forces have also been deployed, wilh code name Desert Shield, to protect neighboring Saudi Arabia, which had been producing 5.5 million barrels per day, and with the potential for taking counter military action against lraq. The immediate domestic impact has been seen in higher oil and gasoline prices, and a United States Department of Energy short term strategy of encouraging conservation. by a combination of urging Americans to drive their more efficient vehicles, obey speed limits and assure that tires are inflated tG recommended pressures. The government is supporting this strategy with a \Do Your Part. Drive Smart\ television ad campaign. One The Scholarshin television ad shows a gigantic oil gusher that is not coming from a well, but bursting forth from the value of a Lire, while the announcer tells viewers that by simply increasing the air pressure in their tires, they can save 50,000 barrels of oil per day. Union College Mechanical Engineering Professor Frank Wicks and student Wayne Sheets decided to investigate the basis and validity of the government's tire pressure claims. Their procedure has been to talk to personnel at the United States Department of Energy and at the tire manufacturing company research laboratories, along with performing independent tests to estimate the energy loss from under inflated tires. The Department of Energy informed the Union College Researchers that there was no single definitive study to support their claims, but their primary source was information from various states and tire manufacturers, and that they would be very interested in any results obtained at Union College. The tire company researcher noted that tire performance has been very much improved. The bias tires of 20 years ago had a rolling resistance of up to 25 pounds per 1,000 pounds of vehicle weight, while the best new radial tires have a resistance of about 6 pounds per 1 ,000 pounds of weight. It was also noted that rolling resistance varies inversely with tire pressure, which means that Eli£~biiitv half recommended pressure in the tire will double the tire rolling resistance. Professor Wicks and Wayne Sheets performed the independent tests by means of coast down time tests on a vehicle with various tire pressures. By using Sir Isaac Newton's Laws of Motion, the total slowing down force was calculated, along with the tire pressure dependent C()mponen t of the tota I force. From this force and velocity, along with estimates of the eng inc and drive train efficiency in converting gasoline {() vch1ck driving power, the)' were ahk to calculate a mile per g:1llon penalty for soft tire~ that is con~istent with tht' [),·pannwnt of Energy estimates. Additional plannl'd fl'~cardl is to perform a statistical su rvcy of ho,., actual lire pressures compare with recommended pre-;stJrcs f(lr a significant numhcr of vchick'->. Along with reporting these results to the Department of Energy, the Union College researchers have two recommendations that they believe would help serve energy conservation cause. One recommendation is that new tires should be sold with a required energy efficiency rating similar to appliances and new vehicles. The second recommendation is that all gas stations should be required to have tire air pumps available for customers, that arc free of charge. The $1.000 schol:ll'Sh:o is awar::d on :he basts of me:1.t me! ~-~J.r.lc:er :) .J.J1 mdividual who 1s ;~ t'u:;.:;r;Je. g:::lc:.uate stud em enrolled :n :1 pro >r::1::1 of s :c.:: v m the water supply field ·~~.:~;, leads :o a :VIaster's or htgher degree ,;,; m dcc:-edited college or umversay .;, the l':11!ed States. Preference IS gtven w Jppi:;;ams whose courses of sn:dy are considered :o be beneficial to water works ;Jrlcoce c.'l :\ew York State (e.g., enrpnee:1.ng destgn. utility management or regul:m,on. rre:J.:::::nent plant operanon\. The :1ward wtll be presemed to the recip1e:1t :u the Jnnual Spring .\1eeting of the Sect:on. :\:1 lFf:il...:J.nt ~u .... t ~e .1 .;:-.: .. :\\~:~ ):~cera ;:~ro:~~d .. b 1 : ..... -· .. ;::~ :r:atm;u!J:e.i >tt:<.!e~t ::: J \!J,:~~-, r :~1:;her ~:-o:;;.].m Jt ..tn .h: ... -:-e\1::-:-.! -..:~).::.- ~·~ r Jntvers:r.- ~'1 :he l'n1:cu S:Jtes -\-:~..:~:-:~,.; .1~h1ev·e:-r~e::~ IS J. ;Jl.J~nr :.1L:cr .:t :.M::: ,electiOn ;::rocess. how ever. :l:ere .u-~ ~.' :-:ummum requirements, .\pp~q:nJte ·\ r: :~~: IS g1ven to J. student's n:rJ.ct:;;.::.L.U' J...:~1\1nes :,':..:~..~h Js pm!~l{:'Jt:L)n ::1 ,r-..:,:·::1: .:~..1pters oi professwnal so~;e::e..; ::.nt! 'HJrk ~xpenence :n the v.ater supp; :· r:e:J, T~e :1pplicJ.J1t's course work :n JreJs ~e!J:d ,,, J c:treer :n :he v..uer suppiv t!e:J .1~c: lnterC'st m water supply re . ..1:ed r~>'e.lr.·h v.tll he cons:dereJ. Awardee's Oblisration Acceptance of the .1 '' ard does not obligate the awardee to e~.ter the ... :Her works field as · :1 career. :-towever, such acceptmce does: obligate :o~e J.wardee to diligently pursue his/her ',vater v.orks related course of study through the award year. The awardee wtll be e!':.couraged by the Student Activines Cornrrur:ee to pre?are and present techmcal pape~s on \\ater supply, treatment and dist::bution. J.Jld water utility mmagement dunng the Section's technical programs. Fma.nc:al need wdl be .' :Jc·:·r 1~ odecnon only m .:J;es ''hen: .1!1 ,,:·,:: :·:1-::crs .1ppear equ.1L In ~.n -:J'e -~ ... ·t-,~ a\.\'lf j lrl O.:l1mbtnJt10n .. ~ :::--. -~:~ c:- ~~~oiJISh~P' l)r fdlV\\~tp:, ::'~~~-~ :!\\\.t' ,._--< :f tu~non. :ext~nok~ . .1nd ·'t~.er .. -~;:' .. :-r.~· :·ees. Application Fcmn5 The .1ppbot1on Jejdl:ne :s :--,<>,rtl':'<'r ~S. t990. Apphcauor: forrns .JJe J\.J;,,::':~ from: Dr, Anthony G, Colliru ~!r Charles V Sell. ir :02 Row!ev L..1b US Ptpe & Fou;HlrV C ,,\\\:. fln' C!arkson Cruvcrs1tv P 0 BoJ. JOi PolS dam. NY ; 3699 Tarrytown. :-<!' : ~S·ll RUSSELL L. SUTPHEN SCHOLARSHIP FUND American Water Works Association New York State Section 1991

P-age 12 CONCORDIENSIS, September 27, 1990 @JlltfllrbirnsisL _E_TT_ER_S ----- Founded at Union College 1877-.--- The Finger is Pointing the Wrong Way Concordiensis recently received a letter from the desk of the so-called \Union ImprovementCommittee.\ Where that desk is, though, nobody knows. Concordiensis has learned that UIC has made very serious charges against more than one campus organization. The UIC has in effect demanded that these organizations be first investigated, with what the UIC believes would be an inevitable abolishment to follow. The allegations were contained in letters sent to a number of Union administrators. The UIC has promised that it will not stop there. Its stated objective is to \rectify all those situations\ that have led to what it calls the \degeneration of Union's original high moral and academic standards.\ This dangerous, misguided, and cowardly group is not the group that should be restoring any types of standards, if indeed such standards need to be restored. If the UIC is looking for a moral deficiency, it need only look at itself. If the UIC is trying to improve Union College, it had first better realize that it will have no credibility until its members identify themselves. If its cause is as noble as i:t professes, certainly it would relish the li~elight of spearheading such a worthwhile campru.gn. Anonymous allegations are usually unfounded. That is one of the reasons why we all have a right to confront our accusers. Hundreds of years later, have we still not learned our lessson from the Salem Witch Trials? The Invisible Sugardaddy Contrary to popular belief at this college, money does not grow on trees. The recent spending spree the College engaged in over the summer is certain to take its toll on our financial well-being. Simply put, the College did not, need to spend money purchasing furniture for every room in Richmond House. At the present time, there are several rooms in the dorm which remain unoccupied. When one adds to this fact the problem of underenrollment in this year's freshman class, the financial results are disappointing to say the least. Coupled with these problems is the staggering fact that the College still needs to produce over three million dollars in funding for the renovation of the Nott Memorial. It is clearly evident that the College is at this point in time not in the best of financial states .. A simple walk around campus allows you to c1te several areas in which the college needs improvement. To begin, Schaffer Library is in dire need of money to update and increase its volumes and offer styudents and faculty additional services. Secondly, the amount of parking for the volume of cars on this campus is at best a lopsided ratio. On a more positive note, however, the College is updating its VAX co~puter sys1em. We are a.lso beginning reconstructiOn of the No~t Memon.al. But the simple fact is that these proJects requrre money, and a lot of it. Before signing <?ver a check that its students have provided fund1ng for, the College must prioritize its undertakings, or plan a record-breaking year for fundraising. . . . . - - . ' .. ~ ~ .... \' ... . . .. .. ... . .. - .. •· ' . . . \' . . .. ·- ·- . . ~ , ~ .. \ . . ~ ' . Keep Union in the Family __ _ I was distressed to read the article in Union College (P.4; Aug. 1990) describing Union's new policy on student/faculty diversity. I fear Union's new policy edges too close to what I call the \Wesleyan Plan for Self- Destruction\ which leads to murder and arson. Regrettably, Wesleyan's plan is being mimicked at several other institutions . (Smith and Darlmouth to name two) where there has been a feckless surrender by trustees, faculty and administrators to noisy pressure groups. In essence, Union's new policy appears to establish quotas in student admissions, faculty hires, tenure-track hires, staff hires ... and even in the structuring of the academic curriculum (which reminds me Letters to the Editor do not necessarily reflect the . . opmtons of the Editorial Board All Letters to the Editor must be typed, double spaced and submitted to the Concordiensis office by 4:00 p.m. on the Tuesday preceeding publication. Anonymous letters will not be accepted. Concordiensis resetves the right to edit letters for length. of the not so long ago when the teaching of science in the USSR had .to conform to Bolshevik dogma). Quotas are odious and should be anathema to any college or university that aspires to be a first -class educational institution. Union's policy should be b I in d to race, re'ligion, nationality and gender in student admissions, faculty hires and staff hires. Our goal should be to find tbe best possible to fill our faculty podiums, classroom seats and wear the Gamet on .the playing fields. If this means in a given year that we get too many faculty hires from Pakistan and too many student matriculations from Bora Bora and South Glens Falls . . . so be it., (Of course, one would hope some of the boys from Bora Bora and South Glens Falls would know what to do with a football and a lacFOsse stick.) As an aside, I do hope Union will continue its long standing policy of taking the extra step to accept sons and daughters of active alumni. To · which I would suggest one addition: that the Admissions Office give extra consideration to admissions candidates who show promise in becoming active, supportive alumni,. as opposed to the number of scholarship students who have become non-supportive graduates. These policies can contribute greatly to the survival of small, private institutions. Cordially, Fred V. Bronner '46 .... And dern tCJJik:l head Kuwaitis! Oos diriy,l H-He. ®*.f#qf!, and speakin' 2 &tt:WrJ.I, hOV{ bout dem t~&tM-~ vile IsraeJfs ! .... i I \j

P.CJge 12 CONCORDIENSJS, September 27, 1990 <llnnrorbtrnsts _LE_TT_· E_Rs _____ _ ----Founded at Union College 1877--- • IS The Finger Pointing the Wrong Way Concordiensis recently received a letter from the desk of the so-called \Union lmprovementCommi ttee.\ Where that desk is, though, nobody knows. Concordiensis has learned that UIC has made very serious charges against more than one campus organization. The UIC has in effect demanded that these organizations be first investigated, with what the UIC believes would be an inevitable abolishment to follow. The allegations were contained in letters sent to a number of Union administrators. The UIC has promised that it will not stop there. Its stated objective is to \rectify all those situations\ that have led to what it calls the \degeneration of Union's original high moral and academic standards.'' This dangerous, misguided, and cowardly group is not the group that should be restoring any types of standards, if indeed such standards need to be restored. If the UIC is looking for a moral deficiency, it need only look at itself. If the UIC is trying to improve Union College, it had first better realize that it will have no credibility until its members identify themselves. If its cause is as noble as it professes, certainly it would relish the limelight of spearheading such a worthwhile campaign. Anonymous allegations are usually unfounded. That is one of the reasons why we all have a right to confront our accusers. Hundreds of years later, have we still not learned our lessson from the Salem Witch Trials? The Invisible Sugardaddy Contrary to popular belief at this college, money does not grow on trees. The recent spending spree the College engaged in over the summer is certain to take its toll on our financial well-being. Simply put, the College did not need to spend money purchasing furniture for every room in Richmond House. At the present time, there are several rooms in the dorm which remain unoccupied. When one adds to this fact the problem of underenro11ment in this year's freshman class, the financial re_sults are disappointing to say the least. Coupled wtth these problems is the staggering fact that the College still needs to produce over three million dollars in funding for the renovation of the Nott Memorial. It is clearly evident that the College is at this point in time not in the best of financial states .. A simple walk around campus allows you to cite several areas in which the college needs improvement. To begin, Schaffer Library is in dire need of money to update and increase its volumes and offer styudents and faculty additional services. Secondly, the amount of parking for the volume of cars on this campus is at best a lopsided ratio. On a more positive note. however, the College is updating its VAX computer system. We are a.lso beginning reconstruction of the No~t Memon_al. But the simple fact is that these proJects requue money, and a lot of it. Be for~ signing ~vera check that its students have provided fundmg for, the College must prioritize its und~~akings, or plan a record-breaking year for fundrmsmg. Keep Union in the Family __ _ I was distressed to read the article in UniQn College (P.4; Aug. 1990) describing Union's new policy on student/faculty diversity. I fear Union's new policy edges tGo close to what I call the \Wesleyan Plan for Self- Destruction\ which leads to murder and arson. Regrettably, Wesl,eyan's plan is being mimicked at several other institutions (Smith and · Darunouth to name two) where there has been a feckless surrender by trustees, faculty and administrators to noisy pressure groups. In essence, Union's new policy appears to establish quotas in studcn t admissions, faculty llircs, tenure-track hires, staff hires ... and even in the structuring of the academic curriculum (which reminds me Letters to the Editor do not necessarily reflect the . . OplnlOllS of the Editorial Board A 11 Letters to the Editor must be typed, double spaced and submitted to the Con cord iensis office by 4:00 p.m. on the Tuesday preceeding publication. Anonymous letters will not be accepted. Con(ordiensis reserves the right to edit letters for length. of the not so long ago when the teaching of science in the USSR had to conform to Bolshevik dogma). Quotas are odious and should be anathe1na to any college or uHiversity that aspires to be a first-class educational institution. UnioH's policy should be b I in d to race, religion, nationality and gender in student admissions, faculty hires aHd staff hires. Our goal should be to find the best possible to fill our faculty podiums, classroom seats and wear the Garnet on the playing fields. If this means in a given year that we get too many faculty hires from Pakistalil and too many student matriculations from Bora Bora and South Glens Falls ... so be it., (Of course, one would hope some of the boys from Bora Bora and South Glens Falls would know what to do with a football and a lacrosse stick.) As an aside, I do hope Union will continue its long standing policy of taking the extra step to accept sons and daughters of active alumni. To which I would suggest one addition: that the Admissions Office give extra consideration to admissions candidates who show promise in becoming active, supportive alumni, as opposed to the number of scholarship students who have become non-supportive graduates. These policies can contribute greatly to the survival of small, private institutions. Cordially, Fred V. Bronner'46 .... And dem iol\~l he3J Kuwaitis! Des Jir'i':, 1 it-He 0*M~f!, and spcakin· d &t14<:!.'' how bout dem $-*~!H.! vile Israelis!..'\ Editors~:in..chief News Editor Associate News Editors Feature Editor .. lnternatiooal Features Editors . Science and Technology Editor Commentaries Page Editor Arts Editor Campus Page:Editors Andrew Soowald;:$1ise Foody ;' ,'~i>*J~land .: Tum AndruchQW, Matt Lanni · · Suzanne Shaker . ~T~wicz.· Jill ~bilipps ... ',{)a() Valerio : Jason Mestmiek · ~sWard • MiChele Mattint L$issa Lucas ·. Andy :Braver .·· Sports Bditor Photography :Editors General Manager Advertising Editors AUisonlioward, Mary Ellen Wing · Cheri Yanofsky Laurel Alessio, Lauren Bycoff ·· Jennifer Shulkin~ Rachel Tuck Suzanne Glass theresa Gigliotti Associate Advertising :Editors Business Manager Subscriptiolt Manager Honorary Faculty Advisor C. William Huntley STAFF: Greg Barrett, Charles Belden,. Amy Benusis; Ron Birnbaum. Karen Bums~ Allison C. Epsrein. Erica Frank~ len Friedman} Carl R. Friedrich, Jr .• Jon Henes~ Karen Hurwitz. Erik Kraft; Meg Parsons, Lisa Pinney~ Tom Sartini. Sybil Zanger. ADVERTISING STAFF: Susan Sklar. .. CONCORDlENSI$ iS published eigbt Thursdays a·term by the student body of Unif)ll CoUeg~~. Scltertectady, New York 1230Bi . l'ttb~cations, Olice: 8usqu0batlrta'P1tbUcations, inc .• Bo?t 388,. Sidney. N~w Yotk 138J8 {601) 563.;8339. Subscriptiun ra~: $30 per year\ delivered .here in the United States ... Mail ·· to CoJie. . sis office~ · College Center, Union Concord1ensis subscribes • to the ,:mterc<>l1egiate Press Offi<ie ·. (518) 3/0.. .· 6155t · ·Telephone·.· n l '-j ' 'j

CONCORDlENSIS, September 27, 1990 ' Page 13 . HOMECOMING '90 JOIN US help plan the Homecoming Parade Tuesday, October 2 at 4:00 in CC409. There's plenty of fun for everyone! MARTIAL ARTS STUDIO MARTIAL ARTS STUDIO l'he Art of Self Defense simple, practical, effective .. Private lessons adapted to the needs of men or women, self defense for any level of threat: •aggressive people •man handlers •rape f.>revention •street fighters •trained fighters •larger & stronger opponents •mo~e than one opponent •assault with weapons Mental & emotional devel- opment to eliminate the fears, an)(ieties, doubts, confusion & intimidation that accompanJes threatening situations. Creating con- fidence and pride with a sense of self reliance. Private lessons at your convenience Mon-Fri 9 to 9 Call now for a free private lesson 370-0408 839 Eastern Ave/Near Union College HOMECOMING '90 JOIN us TODAY to help plan HOMECOMING '90 Thursday, September 27 at 4:00 in CC409. Leadership V8cuums 1CJ29 mode1. JOHN C. ROBBINS SCHOLARSHIP FUND American Water Works Association New York State Section 1991 The Scholarship The $1,000 scholarship is awarded on the basis of merit and character to an individual who is a full-time, post-secondary school student enrolled in a program of study ·in the water supply field which leads to a Bachelor's degree at an accredited college or university in the United States. Preference is .given to applicants whose courses of study are considered to be beneficial to water works practice in New York State (e.g., engineering design, utility management or regulation, treatment plant operation). The award will he presented to the recipient at the annual Spring Meeting of the Section. Awardee~s Obligation Acceptance of the award does not obligate the awardee to enter the water works field as a career, however, such acceptance does obligate the awardee to diligently pursue his,lher water works related course of study through the award year. The awardee will be encouraged by the Student Activities Committee to prepare and present technical papers on water supply, treai:Illent and distribution, and water utility .management during the Section's technical progcims. Eligibility An applicant must be a post-secondary student enrolled as a full-time matriculated student iit a Bachelor's program at an accredited college or university in the United States. Applicants must have completed the sophomore year. Academic achievement is a major factor in the selection process, however, there are no minimum requirements. Appropriate weight is given to a student's extracunicular activities such as participation in srudent chapters of professional societies and summer work experience in the water supply field. The applicant's course work in areas related to a career in the water supply field will be considered. Financial need will be a factor in selection only in cases where all other factors appear equal. In no case shall the award in combination with other scholarships or fellowships exceed the cost of tuition, textbooks, and other scholastic fees. Application Forms The application deadline is November 15, 1990. Application forms are available from: Dr. Anthony G. Collins 202 Rowley Lab Clarkson University Porsdarri, NY 13699 Mr. Charles V. Seal, Jr U.S. Pipe & Foundry Company P.O.Box307 T anytawn, NY I 0591 An Ad Hoc committee has been formed to assess the tenurability of Mario Rivera, Associate Professor of mechanical engineering. Persons wishing to contribute oral or written testimony concerning Prof .. Rivera's teaching, scholarship, and/or college service should contact Prof. Kenney, Dept. of Economics, Social Sciences 211A (ext. 6081). Other members of the committee are Profs. Chang (Electrical Engineering and Computer Science), Olberg (Biology), and Shanebrook (Mechanical Engineering). l990mod~l STUDENT RESEARCH DEADLINE The deadline for proposals for the Internal education Foundation in two categories-student-initiated research projects and \educationally innovative projects\ is Friday, October 5, 1990. Proposals for student-initiated research projects must have the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be submitted to the Dean's office (SIOO, Science & Engineering Building) on fonns available there. , Similarly, members of the College community who have \educationally innovative\ proposals should submit them to the same office on fonns available there. Forms for Faculty research Projects are also available in the Dean's Office {SlOO). Concordiensis Guidelines with respect to the I.E.F. are available in the Dean's Office. Inquiries about I.E.F., the guidelines, or the proposal deadline should be directed to Terry Weiner, Associate Dean of Faculty. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $50.- $85. per day. Transportation costs should also reflect the best rates available. Students who are planning to do interview must indicate that arrangements have already been made. If your research includes work with human subjects, then the proposal must have preliminary approval from the Human Subjects Research Committee before it can be funded by the Subcouncil on Research and Grants. FACULTY RESEARCH DEADLINE is looking for writers, photographers, proofreaders, and more. No experience necessary. Stop at our table during the activities fair or stop by the office anytime. The Subcouncil on Research and Grants is now soliciting proposals for faculty research and scholarship activities. Applications and guidelines are available in Dean Weiner's Office (S-100, S & E). The deadline for submission of proposals is October 5, 1990. Questions concerning the Faculty Research Fund should be directed to Dean Weiner. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates re nonnally limited to $50. - $85. per day. Transportation costs should also reflect the best rates available. If your research includes work with human subjects, then the proposal must have preliminary approval from the Human Subjects Research Committee before it can be funded by the Subcouncil on Research and Grants. <

I . i I I I ' I ; I I i !.' 1 CONCORDJENSIS, September 27, 1990 Page 13 HOMECOMING '90 help plan the Homecoming Parade Tuesday, October 2 at 4:00 in CC409. There's plenty of fun for everyone! MARTIAL ARTS SIUDIO MARTIAL ARTS STUDIO The Art of Self Defense simple, practical, effective .. Private lessons adapted to the needs of men or women, self defense for any level of threat: •aggressive people •man handlers erape prevention •street fighters •trained fighters •larger & stronger opponents •more than one opponent •assau~ with weapons Mental & emotional devel- opment to eliminate the fears, anxieties, doubts, confusion & intimidation that accompanJes threatening situations. Creating con- fidence and pride with a sense of seH reliance. Private lessons at your convenience Mon-Fri 9 to 9 Call now for a free private lesson 370-0408 839 Eastern Ave/Near Union College HOMECOMING '90 JOIN us TODAY to help plan HOMECOMING '90 Thursday, September 27 at 4:00 in CC409. Leadership Y3cuums JOHN C. ROBBINS SCHOLARSHIP FUND American Water Works Association New York State Section 1991 The Scholarship The $1,000 scholarship is awarded on the basis of merit and character to an individual who is a full-time, post-secondary school student enrolled in a program of study in the water supply field which leads to a Bachelor's degree at an accredited college or university in the United States. Preference is given to applicants whose courses of study are considered to be beneficial to water works practice in New York State (e.g .• engineering design, utility management or regulation, treatment plant operation). The award will be presented to the recipient at the annual Spring Meeting of the Section. Awardee's Obligation Acceptance of the award does not obligate the awardee to enter the water works field as a career, however, such acceptance does obligate the awardee to diligently pursue his/her water works related course of study through the award year. The awardee will be encouraged by the Student Activities Committee to prepare and present technical papers on water supply, treannent and distribution, and water utility management during the Section's technical programs. Eligibility An applicaat must be a post-secondary student enrolled as a full-time matriculated student ih a Bachelor's program at an accredited college or university in the United States. Applicants must have completed the sophomore year. Acadell1ic achievement is a major factor in the selection process, however, there are no minimum requirements. Appropriate weight is given to a student's extracurricular activities such as participation in student chapters of professional societies and summer work experience in the water supply field. The applicant's course work in areas related to a career in the water supply field will be considered. Financial need will be a factor in selection only in cases where all other factors appear equal. In no case shall the award in combination with other scholarships or fellowships exceed the cost of tuition, textbooks. and other scholastic fees. Application Forms The application deadline is November 15, 1990. Application forms are available from: Dr. Anthony G. Collins 202 Rowley Lab Clarkson Universil]' Potsdam. NY !3699 Mr. Charles V_ Seal. Jr U.S_ P1pe & Foundry Company P.O. Box 307 T arrytQwn, NY I 0591 An Ad Hoc committee has been formed to assess the tenurability of Mario Rivera, Associate Professor of mechanical engineering. Persons wishing to contribute oral or written testimony concerning Prof. Rivera's teaching, scholarship, and/or college service should contact Prof. Kenney, Dept. of Economics, Social Sciences 211A (ext. 6081). Other members of the committee are Profs. Chang (Electrical Engineering and Computer Science), Olberg (Biology), and Shanebrook (Mechanical Engineering). 1990mode1. STUDENT RESEARCH DEADLINE The deadline for proposals for the Internal education Foundation in two categories-student-initiated research projects and \educationally innovative projects\ is Friday, October 5. 1990. Proposals for student-initiated research projects must have the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be submitted to the Dean's office (SlOO, Science & Engineering Building) on forms available there. , Similarly. members of the College community who have \educationally innovative\ proposals should submit them to the same office on forms available there. Forms for Faculty research Projects arc also available in the Dean's Office (SlOO). Concordiensis Guidelines with respect to the I.E.F. are available in the Dean's Office. Inquiries about I.E.F.. the guidelines, or the proposal deadline should be directed to Terry Weiner. Associate Dean of Faculty. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $50.- $85. per day. Transportation costs should also reflect the best rates available. Students wllo are planning to do interview must indicate that arrangements have already been made. If your research includes work with human subjects, then th.e proposal must have preliminary approval trom the Human Subjects Research Committee before it can be funded by the Subcouncil on Research and Grants. FACULTY RESEARCH DEADLINE is looking for writers, photographers, proofreaders, and more. No experience necessary. Stop at our table during the activities fair or stop by the office anytime. The S11bcouncil on Research and Grants is now soliciting proposals for faculty research and scholarship activities. Applications and guidelines are available in Dean Weiner's Office (S-100, S & E). The deadline for submission of proposals is October 5, 1990. Questions concerning the Faculty Research Fund should be directed to Dean Weiner. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates re nonnally limited to $50. - $85. per day. Transportation costs should also reflect the best rates available. If your research includes work with human subjects, then the proposal must have preliminary approval from the Human Subjects Research Committee before it can be funded by the Subcouncil on Research and Grants. ...

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, September 27, 1990 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Zeppelin Gets The Dread Out. By JAMIE WILLIAMS-NESS What happens when a neo- · psychedelic new music band teams up with a band headed by an Elvis impersonator that does Led Zeppelin covers \in a Reggae style\? You get a show that rocks the College Center Atrium for almost two and a half hours. Zot, the band's mascot, by Little Thare, who took a break from his roving keyboard. The Zots helped to set a bizarre Sunday concert with their brand of new music rock. However, as the crowd soon learned, the Zots' weirdness paled in comparison to what came next. and \Heartbreaker\. With raging guit:ar solos, acts bordering on the vulgar and quite a bit of schtick, Dread Zeppelin kept everyone off balance and entertained. While the crowd, now much larger, remained fairly sedate, they showed their pleasure with clapping, cheers, laughs anbd smiles. Dread Leppelin live in C.C. This past Sunday. at about 2 p.m.,. the Strawberry Zots, in support of their new album Cars, Flowers, Telephones on BMG Records, launched into a half hour of care-free, unpretentious rock and roll. The set included, among others, \Working Girl\ \Little Lupe Lu\ and \Get Me to the World on Time\. The music, while new in creation. was reminiscent of the late Sixties- style psychedelic music. A curious but reserved Union crowd gathered to watch five middle-aged men saunter around dressed like rejects from a second-hand store's bargain bin. Among the set's highlights was the introduction of Baby No one seemed to know what to expect of Dread Zeppelin. Certainly no one expected what actually appeared in support of Un-Led-Ed (on IRS Records). One short, dreadlocked, Reggae type, that would be Ed Zeppelin, on conga and percussion; one Speedo-clad \porn\ bassist, Putmon; two bizarrely and Seventyish styled guitar players, Jab P~ul Jo and Carl J ah; and Fresh Cheese on drums all strolled onto the stage and began to rock. Shortly thereafter, followed closely b} his valet, Charlie Haj, out strutted Tortelvis. What transpired for the next hour and a half was nothing short of strange. In a set that bordered on a comedy routine, Dread Zeppelin rocked, with more than a hint of Reggae and Elvis, through such classics as \Black Dog (you ain't nothin; but a ... )\ \Whole Lotta Love\ In post-show interviews, both bands commented on the quiet nature of the crowd. Mark Andrews, the singer for the Strawberry Zots, pinned the mellow state on the fact that it was Sunday afternoon, but he cheerfully noted that he saw tapping feet and a satisfying level of applause. Tortelvis actually welcomed the mellow mood. The night before in Boston, known for its hardcore style of music, Dread was subjected to stage divers who disrupted the show. Tortelvis said he and the boys welcomed the relaxing show. Better Than Bran - The WRUC Record Reviews :By RON EUGENIO Hard to believe we've only been back for two weeks; it feels like we should be wallowing in mid-terms already, which makes this quick summary of the alternative records that hit big over the summer feel twice as silly. However, the records mentioned here deserve the newsprint. So, if you don't already have these records (or CD's as the case may be), have some pocket change to spare (pocket bills, if you're buying CD's), and if you want your rommate to exclaim \What IS this!?!\ readon. The summer was a good one for college circuit veterans. After years of playing small cJubs and hearing mall rats whine, \But I've never heard Casey Kasem mention you,\ artist-s like Sonic Youth, Concrete Blonde, and Faith No More started popping up on MTV. Sonic Youth's album Goo (DGC Records), in particular, captures the band in full, noisy, rebellious stride-- Back in early June, a project from an all-female band, The Breeders called Pod (Beggar's Banquet) caused eyebrows to raise. Since the band boasts both a Pixie and a Throwing Muse, the reaction was hardly surprising-- l'he Breeders layered poppy sound contrasts with Bob Mould's B I a c k Sheets of Rain (Virgin). If the first single, \It's Too Late\ sounds too radio friendly, other songs like the title track and \The Hanging Tree\ hark back to his intense Husker Du days-- Going overseas, if you were in the mood to shimmy, the trippy Manchester England music scene was the place to be. The new Stone Roses' single \One Love\ (Silvertone) and the Charlatans U.K. song, \The Ony One I Know\ (RCA) still sounded majestic after that last dose of acid faded away-- Mixing samples from Big Black to Public Enemy, Jesus. Jones' Liquid izer (SBK) gives new meaning to the term \melting pot\. If you can imagine The Cult with a hip- hop D.J ., you won't know whether to pogo like Sid Viscous or gyrate like M.C. (I can't rap. I don't need to) Hammer-- Speaking of rap, if you haven't heard the new Boogie Down Productions album Edutainment (RCA), you're missing the best rap album ou~ since Fear of a Black PI anet (KRS). One, the leade1 of the band, raps about Egyptian philisophy, on being a steadfast vegetarian, and stresses awareness over mindless violence. And he's recording a single with R.E.M's Michael Stipe (on that band, their next album is targeted for early '91). Coming up later on in the fall, new releases from The lndigo Girls, The Replacements and Fishbone. Keep this column scanned and if you want to hear any of the above, call in. While certainly bizarre, but extremely entertaining, the Strawberry Zots/ Dread Zeppelin show was a great alternative to the usual Sunday afternoon activities. Look for more concerts in the Atrium and Cabaret rooms later in the fall. Seating is limitedl (only 75 seats left) New Age pianist ··MICHAEL JONES·· will be performing a free concert on Thursday, September 27 at 8:00PM in the Nott Memorial.. Sign up in CC408 or call x6896. Ask for Scott Himi as soon as possible. GARNET CONCORDIENSIS SKIING WRUC CONCERTS FILM STUDENT ACTIVITIES EXPOSITION 1990 Thursday, Oct. 4th The College Center Front Entrance 1 :00 - 4:00 pm (Rain: Fri., Oct. 5th) FREE FOOD

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, September 27, 1990 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Dread Leppelin live in C.C. By JAMIE WILLIAMS-NESS What happens when a nco- psychedelic new music band teams up with a band headed by an Elvis impersonator that does Led Zeppelin covers \in a Reggae style\? You get a show that rocks the College Center Atrium for almost two and a half hours. This past Sunday, at about 2 p.m., the Strawberry Zots, in support of their new album Cars, Flowers, Telephones on BMG Records, launched into a half hour of care-free, unpretentious rock and roll. The set included, among others, \Working Girl\ \Little Lupe Lu\ and \Get Me to the World on Time\. The music, while new in creation, was reminiscent of the late Sixties- style psychedelic music. A curious but reserved Union crowd gathered to watch five middle-aged men saunter around dressed like rejects from a second-hand store's bargain bin. Among the set's highlights was the introduction of Baby Better Than Bran - The WRUC Record Reviews By RON EUGENIO Hard to believe we've only been back for two weeks; it feels like we should be wallowing in mid-terms already, which makes this quick summary of the alternative records that hit big over the summer feel twice as silly. However, the records mentioned here deserve the newsprint. So, if you don't already have these records (or CO's as the case may be), have some pocket change to spare (pocket bills, if you're buying CO's), and if you want your rommate to exclaim \What IS this!?!\ read on. The summer was a good one for college circuit veterans. After years of playing small clubs and hearing mall rats whine, \But I've never heard Casey Kasem mention you,\ artists like Sonic Youth, Concrete Blonde, and Faith No More started popping up on MTV. Sonic Youth's album Goo (DGC Records), in particular, captures the band in full, noisy, rebellious stride-- Back in early June, a project from an all-female band, The Breeders called Pod (Beggar's Banquet) caused eyebrows to raise. Since the band boasts both a Pixie and a Throwing Muse, the reaction was hardly surprising-- The Breeders layered poppy sound contrasts with Bob Mould's B I a c k Sheets of Rain (Virgin). If the first single, \It's Too Late\ sounds too radio friendly, other songs like the title track and \The Hanging Tree\ hark back to his intense Husker Du days-- Going overseas, if you were in the mood to shimmy, the trippy Manchester England music scene was the place to be. The new Stone Roses' single \One Love\ (Silvertone) and the Charlatans U.K. song, \The Ony One I Know\ (RCA) still sounded majestic after that last dose of acid faded away-- Mixing samples from Big Black to Public Enemy, Jesus Jones' L iquidizer (SBK) gives new meaning to the term \melting pot\. If you can imagine The Cult with a hip- hop D.J ., you won't know whether to pogo like Sid Viscous or gyrate like M.C. (I can't rap. I don't need to) Hammer-- Speaking of rap, if you haven't heard the new Boogie Down Productions album Edutaimnent (RCA), you're missing the best rap album ou< since Fear of a Black PI anet (KRS). One, the leader of the band, raps about Egyptian philisophy, on being a steadfast vegetarian, and stresses awareness over mindless violence. And he's recording a single with R.E.M's Michael Stipe (on that band, their next album is targeted for early '91). Coming up later on in the fall, new releases from The Indigo Girls, The Replacements and Fishbone. Keep this column scanned and if you want to hear any of the above, call in. Watch for the Opening •I t'IJ!e Zot, the band's mascot, by Little Thare, who took a break from his roving keyboard. The Zots helped to set a bizarre Sunday concert with their brand of new music ro\.!k. However, as the crowd soon learned, the Zots' weirdness paled in comparison to what came next. No one seemed to know what ~o expect of Dread Zeppelin. Certainly no one expected what actually appeared in support of Un-Led-Ed (on IRS Records). One short, dreadlocked, Reggae type, that would be Ed Zeppelin, on conga and percussion; one Speedo-clad \porn\ bassist, Putmon; two bizarrely and Seventyish styled guitar players, Jah P;tul Jo and Carl J ah; and Fresh Cheese on drums all strolled onto the stage ancl began to rock. Shortly tltereafter, followed closely b} his valet, Charlie Haj, out strutted Tortelvis. What transpired for the next hour and a half was nothing short of strange. In a set that bordered on a comedy routine, Dread Zeppelin rocked, with more than a hint of Reggae and Elvis, through such classics as \Black Dog (you ain't nothin; but a ... )\ \Whole Lotta Love\ and \Heartbreaker\. With raging guitar solos, acts bordering on the vulgar and quite a bit of schtick, Dread ZeppeliR kept everyone off balance and entertained. While the crowd, now much larger, remained fairly sedate, they showed their pleasure with clapping, cheers, laughs anbd smiles. In post-show iat.:-rviews, both bands commented on the quiet nature of the cFowd. Mark Andrews, the singer for the Strawberry Zots, pinned the mellow state on the fact that it was Sunday afternoon, but he cheerfully noted that he saw tapping feet and a satisfying level of applause. Tortelvis actually welcomed the mellow mood. The night before in Boston, known for its hardcorc style of music, Dread was subjected to stage divers who disrupted the show. Tortclvis said he and the boys welcomed the relaxing show. While certainly bizarre, but exuemely enLertaining, the Strawberry Zols/ Dread Zeppelin show was a great alternative to the usual Sunday afternoon activities. Look for more concerts in the Atrium and Cabaret rooms later in the fall. Seating is limited! ' '· ~~ifil\k'. ;~ (only 75 seats left) New Age pianist ··MICHAEL JONES·· will be performing a free concert on Thursday, September 27 at 8:00PM in the Nott Memorial. Sign up in CC408 or call x6896. Ask for Scott Hirni as soon as possible. GARNET CONCORDIENSIS SKIING WRUC CONCERTS FILM STUDENT ACTIVITIES EXPOSITION 1990 Thursday, Oct. 4th The College Center Front Entrance 1 :00 - 4:00 pm (Rain: Fri., Oct. 5th) FREE FOOD ' - ~, ' ' ., l ! l ··.'1 ,{'

CONCORDIENSJS, September 27, 1990 Page 15 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT The Movie Review By TOM ROTKO and JASON LAWIT After a less than stellar cinematic summer season, the fall campaign is off to a promising start. Mike Nichols' latest film, adapted from the Carrie Fischer novel, hit the big screen this past weekend. Postcards from the Edge is able to relate to the viewer the less than charming lives of Hollywood families. Although the film deals with the serious problem of substance abuse, it manages to rise above the sludge it portrays. The film is lighthearted and even laugh- out-loud funny at times. Mike Nichols expertly directs, utilizing unique camera angles when needed, but never in an egotistical manner. Not known for her comedic brilliance, Meryl Streep gives a surprisingly amusing performance in Postcards from the Edge. Portraying an on the rebound actress with a drug problem, Suzanne Vale, Streep develops her character fully. She covers the pendulum of emotions convincingly, able T R u A CROSSGATES 12 CROSSGATES MALL - 456-5678 ' PRESUMED INNOCENT 12:35-3:30-6:55-9-35 TAKING CARE OF BUSINESS 100-3:35-7:0Q-9-45 PUMP UP THE VOLUME 12:35-3:00-7:2Q-9:55 POSTCARDS FROM THE EDGE 1:05·3:45·7:1Q-9:50 DEATH WARRANT 1:1Q-3:40..7: 15- ]()-05 HARDWARE , 115-3:50-7:25· ·,o 10 DARKMAN 12:55· 3 :30-7:05·9-35 FLATLINERS ·12:50- 3:20-6:45- 9:40 YOUNGGUNS2 12:35- 3:25-6:JQ-9-.30 GHOST 12:4o-3: 15-6:35·9:20 MEN AT WORK 12:45-3: IQ-6:50-9: 15 MY BLUE HEAVEN 12:3o- 3·0S-6·4Q-9:25 to make the transition from grief to gaiety with ease. Her performance is neither eye- catching nor spectacular, yet she is able to make her character genuine. Perhaps the most convincing scenes are the ones involving the continuing slruggle between S'tteep and her esttanged, eccentric mother Shirley MacLaine. ' Maclaine provides an excellent foil for Streep's wry brand of humor. She is the prototypical nagging mother, , fueled by a steady diet of Slimfast and Srolichnaya. Her character evokes pity, sympathy, loathing and love. Throughout this, she remains wickedly funny. Much of the credit should go towards the tr~mendous screenplay. Dialogue sparkles with wit and one liners, yet at the same time is emotionally fulfilling. This is by no means a one sided comedy. The script enhances the characters and makes their job that much easier. Dennis Quaid, recovering from Great Bans of Fire, plays Streep's love interest. L S F U R A l Y R E DARKMAN 5:30-7:30-9:30 \· _iRl PRESUMED INNOCElff 4:40:7:10-9:40 (Rl LEMON SISTERS 5-7-9 (PG13) FLATLINEIIS 4:50-7-9:25 (R} DEATH WARRAHl 6-8·10 !Rl YOUNG GUNS II 5:30-7:45-10 (l't13l l!fliBt~r:JII 370-1920 AL A . SCHENECTAOY POSTCARDS FROM THE EDGC 5:Hj:.7:20::9:30 (R) GHOST 4:45-7:10-9:40 !PG13! IEII AT WORK 5:20-7:30-9:50 (!613) HARDWARE 6-8-1.0 (R) JUNGLE BOOK 5:30 (G) MY BLUE HEAVEN 7:25-9:45 (!1!13! PRESUMED INNOCENT 4:40-7-9:35 (R) WITCHES 4:50-6:5(}.8:50 (IQ) . CIFi TICKE~S AT BO~ OFFICE U1UA~1E1 The annual SQUASH FALL CLASSIC TOURNAMENT is set to start October 15. The sign up sheet is in the gym opposite the equipment cage. The ball is the white dot hard ball. The first 3 games out of 5 games wins. From this tournament we will set up a squash ladder. The ladder will be used to form a team to compete in the tri-city league that plays as many as six other teams. If there are any questions, call Sandy Vohr at 377-2910. His womanizing character is peripheral to the main story line, but integral to the · development of Streep's character. Quaid's performance is spectacularly moderate, , benefiting tremendously from a . plush screenplay. The film is ' enriched with cameos by Gene • Hackman, Richard Dreyfuss, Rob Reiner and Conrad .Bain. Although not a blockbuster, Postcards from the Edge is a first rate film with top notch acting and superlative screenwriting. Depending on the remainder of the year, MacLaine and Fischer could gamer nominations from the Academy. So, if you are sitting : in your room watching dust · accumulate, consider :this film a worthwhile investment of your time and money. Postcard from the Edge Director: Mike Nichols Producers: Mike Nichols and Michael Calley Screenplay: Carrie Fischer Starri~g: Meryl Streep, Shirley MacLaine and Dennis Quaid Rating: **** (out of five) !iocial Al'ternat:ives On Campus: 1) TONIGHT! Michael Jones New Age Pianist will perform in the Nott at 8:00 PM. 2) Campus Movie The Hunt For Red October M/W /F 8:00 PM & 10:30 PM Off Campus: l 0 Capital Jazz Fest Saturday, September 29. Info., call 473- 1845 2) Union Football at SUNY Albany. 7:00PM 3) Celtic- American Band Saturday, Sept. 29,8:00 PM Info., call 434- 1703 Campus Movie \The Hunt For Red October\ Sept. 28-30 8:00 p.m .. and 10:30 o.m. Union College - Schenectady Museum to Host 21st International Festival of Chamber Music By STAFF Union College in conjunction with the Schenectady Museum will host a series of classical concerts in the Memorial Chapel. The series will start with the Hung~rian Takacs String Quartet The Quartet will begin the festival with the complete Ludwig V anBeethoven string quartets, starting October 9 and 10. The Takacs String Quartet will play the remainder of the Beethoven series December 4 and 5, and end March 12 and 13. The series continues with The New England Bach Festival on Thursday. October '25; the Slovak Chamber Ore he stra on Sunday, November 18; The Boston Came,rata on Monday, December 17; The Marlboro- inspired trio of WuHan, Pamala Frank, and Y eesum Kim on Saturday, January 5; the Emerson String Quartet on Saturday, February 2; and Mitsuko Shirai, mezzo soprano, and Hartmut Holl, piano, on Saturday, April6. Union College students are offered a discount on ticket prices, $5.50 (regularly $11) and since the concerts are right on campus, it would be a great way to spend some free time. For ticket information, call 382-7890 (days) or 372-3651 (evenings) for more information. Slovak Chamber Orchestra HOROSCOPES BY MADAME \L\ LIBRA: Happy Birthday! You're off to a great start! Enjoy the years. they go by fast Fortune and fun are ahead! SCORPIO: Your days are coming but don't rush it. Enjoy what you have now love, great friends, and a g_reat place to live. SAGITTARIUS: Stop! Think! Are you sure?! This decision could change your life! Call your Mom, she'll know. CAPRICORN: Why worry? Finals are far, far away! Get out of the library! There's a Libra who needs a study partner. AQUARIUS: Find a Pisces to swim in your ocean. PISCES: Swim fast, stir up some whirlpool. There's an ocean waiting for you, but it's somewhere near France. ARIES: You are a Ram~ Not a kitten. Don't hide behind your notebook. That person you stare at is starting to look your way. After class, attack! GEMINI: Who says only opposites attract. You two may have alot in common, but you're twins. You're supposed to be exactly alike. CANCER: Crab vs. Scorpion. Go for it! It'll be a life long love. LEO: Roar at the top of your lungs. You're King of the Jungle and at the Saturday Night Party, capture and devour. VIRGO: Still? TAURUS: Bull. .,. .

'• '·- ~ ' ; ., l i - ,,1 'j .-i CONCORDfENSIS, September 27, 1990 Page 15 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT The Movie Review By TOM ROTKO and JASON LA WIT After a less than stellar cinematic summer season, the fall campaign is off to a promising start. Mike Nichols' latest film, adapted from the Carrie Fischer novel, hit the big screen this past weekend. Postcards from the Edge is able to relate to the viewer the less than charming lives of Hollywood families. Although the film deals with the serious problem of substance abuse, it manages to rise above the sludge it portrays. The film is lighthearted and even laugh- out-loud funny at times. Mike Nichols expertly directs, utilizing unique camera angles when needed, but never in an egotistical manner. Not known for her comedic brilliance, Meryl Streep gives a surprisingly amusing performance in Postcards from the Edge. Portraying an on the rebound actress with a drug problem, Suzanne Vale, Streep develops her character fully. She covers the pendulum of emotions convincingly, able B 0 A R I N AM A L E , . CROSSGATES · 12' . ·.cROSSGATES MAiJL .. ·. . . . ~ ... 456-5678 . . PRESUMED INNOCENT 12 JS-330-6.55·.9-JS TAKING CARE OF BUSINESS 1 00-3 35-7 00-NS PUMP UP THE VOLUME 12 J5-3il0·71D-9 s; POSTCARDS FROM THE EDGE 1·05-3 45-7 1Q-9-50 DEATH WARRANT 110·3 4Q-715-1oo;, HARDWARE 111·3 so-1 i> ·0 •o DARKMAN 1155·3 30·7-()5-9-35 FLATLINERS 12.50-3 2ll·6 45-9-.W YOUNGGUNS2 12.35- 315-6.3D-9-.30 GHOST \2 46-3 15-635·920 MEN AT WORK 11 41· 3 lt}-6 50~- 9~15~­ MY BLUE HEAVEN \2 Jo- 3 05·6 40·9 25 to make the transition from grief to gaiety with ease. Her performance is neither eye- catching nor spectacular, yet she is able to make her character genuine. Perhaps the most convincing scenes are the ones involving the continuing struggle between Streep and her estra:nged, eccentric mother Shirley MacLaine. ' Maclaine provides an excellent foil for Streep's wry brand of humor. She is the prototypical nagging mother, fueled by a steady diet of Slimfast and Stolichnaya. Her character evokes pity, sympathy, loathing and love. Throughout this, she remains wickedly funny. Much of the credit should go towards the tr~mendous screenplay. Dtalogue sparkles with wit ood one liners, yet at the same time ~s emotionally fulfilling. This ts by no means a one sided comedy. The script enhances the characters and makes their job that much easier. Dennis Quaid, recovering from Great Balls of Fire, plays Streep's love interest. R A l Y R E DARKMAN 5:30-730-9:30. (RJ PRESUMED INNOCENT 4 40-7 10-9:40 (II) LEMON SISTERS 5-7-9 (PG13) FLAniNERS 4 50-7-9:25 (R) DEATH WARRANT 6-8-10 (Rl YOUNG GUNS II 530-7.45-10 !PG13l l~le'JtQ~~ijMO 370-1920 AL A .SCHENECTADY POSTCARDS FROM THE EDGE 5 ld:- 7 20-9 30 {R! GHOST 4 45-710-9 40 !PG13! liEN AT WORK 5:20-7 30-9:50 (PG13) HARDWARE 6-8-10 !A) JUNGLE BOOK 5 30 (G) MY BLUE HEAVEN 7 25-9:45 (I'G13) PRESUMED INNOCENT 4:40-7-9 35 !11! WITCHES 4:50-6:50-8:50 !1'61 . · ·ri1.n TICKETS AT; BOX ~FFICE . - a@ 1JJ A§ IBl The annual SQUASH FALL CLASSIC TOURNAMENT is set to start October 15. The sign up sheet is in the gym opposite the equipment cage. The ball is the white dot hard ball. The first 3 games out of 5 games wins. From this tournament we will set up a squash ladder. The ladder will be used to form a team to compete in the tri-city league that plays as many as six other teams. If there are any questions, call Sandy Vohr at 377-2910. His womaHizing character is peripheral to the main story line, but integral to the development of Streep's · character. Quaid's performance is spectacularly moderate, . benefiting tremendously from a plush screenplay. The film is enriched with cameos by Gene Hackman, Richard Dreyfuss, . Rob Reiner and Conrad Bain. Although not a blockbuster, Post4:a,rds from the Edge is a first rate film with top notch acting and superlative screenwriting. Depending on the remainder of the year, MacLaine and Fischer could garner nominations from the Academy. So, if you are sitting in your room watching dust accumulate, consider this film a wortllwhile investment of your time and money. Postcard from the Edge Director: Mike Nichols Producers: Mike Nichols and Michael Calley Screenplay: Carrie Fischer Starring: Meryl Strcep, Shirley MacLaine and Dennis Quaid Rating: **** (out of five) !iocial Alternat:i\es On Campus: 1) TONIGHT! Michael Jones New Age Pianist will perform in the Nott at 8:00 PM. 2) Campus Movie The Hunt For Red October M/W /F 8:00 PM & 10:30 PM Off Campus: 10 Capital Jazz Fest Saturday, September 29. Info., call 4 73- 1845 2) Union Football at SUNY Albany. 7:00PM 3) Celtic- American Band Saturday, Sept. 29,8:00 PM Info., call 434- 1703 Campus Movie \The Hunt For Red October\ Sept. 28-30 8:DO p.m .. and 10:30 p.m. Union College - Schenectady Museum to Host 21st International Festival of Chamber Music By STAFF Union College in conjunction with the Schenectady Museum will host a series of classical concerts in the Memorial Chapel. The series will start with the Hungarian Takacs String Quartet. The Quartet will begin the festival with the complete Ludwig VanBeethoven string quartets, starting October 9 and 10. The Takacs String Quartet will play the remainder of the Beethoven series December 4 and 5, and end March 12 and 13. The series continues with The New England Bach Festival on Thursday, October · 25; the Slovak Chamber Orchestra on Sunday, November 18; The Boston Camerata on Monday, December 17; The Marlboro- inspired trio of WuHan, Pamala Frank, and Yeesum Kim on Saturday, January 5; the Emerson String Quartet on Saturday, February 2; and Mitsuko Shirai, mezzo soprano, and Hartmut Hall, piano, on Saturday, April 6. Union College students arc offered a discount on ticket prices, $5.50 (regularly $11) and since the concerts are right on campus, it would be a great way to spend some free time. For ticket information, call 382-7890 (days) or 372-3651 (evenings) for more information. Slovak Chamber Orchestra HOROSCOPES BY MADAME \L\ LIBRA: Happy Birthday! You're off to a great start! Enjoy the years, they go by fast. Fortune and fun are ahead! SCORPIO: Your days are coming but don't rush it. Enjoy what you have now love, great friends, and a great place to live. SAGITTARIUS: Stop! Think! Are you sure?! This decision could change your life! Call your Mom, she'll know. CAPRICORN: Why worry? Finals are far, far away! Get out of the library! There's a Libra who needs a study partner. AQUARIUS: Find a Pisces to swim in your ocean. PISCES: Swim fast, stir up some whirlpool. There's an ocean waiting for you. but it's somewhere near France. ARIES: You are a Raml Not a kitten. Don't hide behind your notebook. That person you stare at is starting to look your way. After class, attack! GEMINI: Who says only opposites attract. You two may have alot in common, but you're twins. You're supposed to be exactly alike. CANCER: Crab vs. Scorpion. Go for it! It'll be a life long love. LEO: Roar at the top of your lungs. You're King of the Jungle and at the Saturday Night Party, capture and devour. VIRGO: Still? TAURUS: Bull. .....

. .. .. Pa~e 16 STUDENT OFF CAMPUS JOBS Stock Broker • Insurance Co. 146-146-A Clifton Park, part-time clerical worker, filing, Xeroxing, telephone sales. Hrs. flexibie. Please contact Tom Donovan at 371- 1112. Need student to sit Part- time flexible hours. Location Old Niskayuna, approx. 5 min. from Campus. Please contact Holly Hess at 377-6869. Graduate Student to live in with elderly woman. Location near Ellis Hospital. Please contact Don Wexler 372-9990 or 785-1777. Student to work in doctor's office on Uppr. Union St. General office duties, light accounting and bookkeeping. Requires 10 hrs. per week between 8 a.rn.-4 p.m. $5.00/hr. Contact Wendy Atwell at 370-0623. Neea--;o-meone-io--belp elderly person do cleaning, garden work, miscellaneous. Location Uppr. Eastern Parkway. Please contact 374- 5384. Part-time or full time employment. M. Solomon. Colonie Center, Wolf Road, Albany. Please contact 459- 9070 Meghan. Need sitter for 3 boys 14, 7, 11 also teacher's aide. Location: Swaggertown Road, 15 min. from College. For further info please contact 399- 9544. CLASSIFIEDS Motorcycle for Sale. Honda 500 Ascot. hl~rk :mrl silver, exceptional condition. Call 346-0136. VW Rabbit 1980 Diesel $550 or b/o. 382-1837. Ask for Sam. Addressers Wanted Immediately! No experience necessary, excellent pay! Work at home. Call Toll Free 1-800- 395-3283. Energetic Person to be a representative for Coppertonc Spring break !.rips to Cancun, Daytona, Nassau, Jamaica. Best programs available Anywhere. Great incentives and free trips possible. Call for more information. 1-800-222- 4432 and ask for Brenna or Bruce. For Rent: 3 bedroom apartment, 1513 Van Vranken Ave. (near Nott St.) off street parking. Year lease, security . Call 372-6772, Scott MacPherson. Is your fraternity, sorority or club interested in earning $500 to $1 ,000 one-week, on- campus marketing project? You must be well-organized and hard working. Call Elizabeth U. at (800) 592- 2121. CONCORDIENSIS, September 17~ 1990 CAMPUS NEW.S Send a PERSO·NAL! ONLY 50¢ Go to the Information Booth in the College Center Weekly Crossword \BACK TO \THE BOOKS\ ACROSS 1 Word with setter or writer 5 He the Boston Marathon 10 Building extensions 14 Virginia dance 15 School in Paris 16 Horned ruminant mammal 17 Armbone 18 College subject 20 Tree type 21 Swerve 22 Wharves 23 A.K.A. 25 Resort in New Mexico 27 Direct descent 29 Math lesson 33 Mr. Adams: Landscape ~-'---1--+---1-- photographer 34 Fisherman's basket 35 Kanga's baby 36 Exclamations of annoyance 37 Checks 38 Sicilian Volcano 39 Off. of Naval Intelligence 40 Languishes 41 \My Name is __ Lev\ - 42 Attended fourth wrade for the second year 44 Steps 45 Prevaricates 46 Mr. : North Pole resident 47 Anwar __ 50 Tiny opening 51 Gob 54 Elementary school subject 57 Ctndled soybean milk 58 Appellation 59 Dirt 60 Type of exam 61 Pub drinks 62 Female horses By Gerry Frey 63 Funeral fire DOWN 1 and false test 2 Cheerleaders expr.ession 3 Grammar school Sllbject 4 Guido d'Arezzo's highest note. 5 AnnLJI by legislathre action 6 Pains companion . COLLEGE CENTBR. Thursday. Sept 27: 7 Black in Marsailles 8 Under the weather 9 .New 10 Selfishness 11 Bounding.gait 12 Bert _. _· : Dorothy's lion friend 13 P.ig pens: Variation 19 Ruin 21 Chemistry class container 24 Robert E. and family 25 High school students 26 Gets an \A\ from the Prof. 27 Day 28 Silly 29 Dehydrated 30 College subject: 2 wds. 31 Solitary person 32 Glides 34 Pulls out 37 Grade the paper 38 Jacob's twin brother 40 Word with hope and charily 41 Rat- - 43 Makes happy 44 Carves the roast 46 Pre11ailing weatlu~r conditions 47 Capital of Yemen 48 Sea in Russia 49 One-tenth of a dollar 50 Child's direction 52 From a distance 53 \Dear Old Golden Days\ 55 Hollywood initials 56 Period of time 57 Valedictorian's class position 3pm Big Brothers/Sisters Mtg. 203 410 Aud. Monday~ Oct. 1: 7:30pm Modern Language Films 406 4\09 -r 3 A · DOlt A, Mti . I' : \;ln,rn . . . · ·· of\~.·. ; · 'ir•. - ~- - .. . . Spm Meditation Study 8pm Shakespeare Series Ganarat,,Rresea:ts:+ild'~'\\'';l(i ' Mich~~fJon~s at tne N. t I i

l.'age lb STUDENT OFF CAMPUS JOBS Stock Broker - Insurance Co. 146-146-A Clifton Park, part-time clerical worker, filing, Xeroxing, telephone sales. Hrs. flexibie. Please contact Tom Donovan at 371- 1112. Need student to sit Part- time flexible hours. Location Old Niskayuna, approx. 5 min. from Campus. Please contact Holly Hess at 377-6869. Graduate Student to live in with elderly woman. Location near Ellis Hospital. Please contact Don Wexler 372-9990 or 785-1777. Student to work in doctor's office on Uppr. Union St. General office duties, light accounting and bookkeeping. Requires 10 hrs. per week between 8 a.rn.-4 p.m. $5.00/hr. Contact Wendy Atwell at 370-0623. Neea--so-meone-to-he1p elderly person do cleaning, garden work, miscellaneous. Location Uppr. Eastern Parkway. Please contact 374- 5384. Part-time or full time employment. M. Solomon. Colonic Center, Wolf Road, Albany. Please contact 459- 9070 Mcghan. Need sitter for 3 boys 14, 7, 11 also teacher's aide. Location: Swaggcrtown Road, 15 min. from College. For further info please contact 399- 9544. CLASSIFIEDS Motorcycle for Sale. Honda 500 Ascot. hhwk ~nri silver, exceptional condition. Call 346-0136. -- - - -------- \'W Rabbit 19XO Diesel $550 or h/o. 3X2-1837. Ask for Sam. Addressers Wanted Immediately! No experience neces~ry, excellent pay! Work at home. Call Toll Free 1-800- 395-3283. Energetic Person to be a representative for Coppertone Spring break trips to Cancun, Daytona, Nassau, Jamaica. Best programs available Anywhere. Great incentives and free trips possible. Call for more information. 1-800-222- 4432 and ask for Brenna or Bruce. For Rent: 3 bedroom apartment, 1513 VanVranken Ave. (near Nott St.) off street parking. Year lease, security. Call 372-6772, Scott MacPherson. Is your fraternity, sorority or club interested in earning ~500 to S 1.000 one-week, on- campus marketing project'? You must be well-organized and hard working. Call El izahcth U. at (800) 592- ~1.21. CONCORDIENSJS, September 27, 1990 CAMPUS NEWS Send a PERSONAL! ONLY 50¢ Go to the Information Booth in the College Center Weekly Crossword \BACK TO THE BOOKS\ By Gerry Frey 7 Black in Marsailles 8 Under the weather 9 New 10 Selfishness 11 Bounding gait ACROSS 12 Bert_: Dorothy's lion 1 Word with setter or writer 5 He the Boston Marathon 10 Building extensions 14 Virginia dance 15 School in Paris 16 Horned ruminant mammal 17 Arm bone 18 College subject 20 Tree type 21 Swerve 22 Wharves 23 A.K.A. 25 Resort in New Mexico 27 Direct descent 29 Math lesson 33 Mr. Adams: Landscape 1---+----+-+--1----1 photographer 34 Fisherman ·s basket 35 Kanga ·s baby 36 Exclamations of annoyance 37 Checks 38 Sicilian Volcano 39 Off. of Naval Intelligence 40 Languishes 41 \My Name is ___ Lev\ 42 Attended fourth grade for the second year 44 Steps 45 Prevaricates 46 Mr. : North Pole resident 47 Anwar __ 50 Tiny opening 51 Gob 54 Elementary school subject 57 Curdled soybean milk 58 Appellation 59 Dirt 60 Type of exam 61 Pub drinks 62 Female horses 63 Funeral fire DOWN 1 and false test 2 Cheerleaders expression 3 Grammar school subject 4 Guido d' Arezzo's highest note 5 Annul by legislative action 5 Pains companion friend 13 Pig pens: Variation 19 Ruin 21 Chemistry class container 24 Robert E. and family 25 High school students 26 Gets an \A\ from the Prof. 27 Day 28 Silly 29 Dehydrated 30 College subject: 2 wds 31 Solitary person 32 Glides 34 Pulls out 37 Grade the J)aper 38 Jacob's twin brother 40 Word with hope and charity 41 Rat- - 43 Makes happy 44 Carves the roast 46 Pre'lailing weather conditions 47 Capital of Yemen 48 Sea in Russia 49 One-tenth of a dollar 50 Child's direction 52 From a distance 53 \Dear Old Golden Days\ 55 Hollywood initials 56 Period of time 57 Valedictorian's class position THIS WEEK AT THE COLLEGE CENTER Thursday, Sept. 27: 3pm .Big Brothers/Sisters Mtg. 5pm Meditation Study 8pm Shakespeare Series 8pm Cabaret PreseAts: New Age Music; Michaet Jones at the Nott Memorial Fridayt Sept. 28: 11 ~ 15am Shakespeare Series 12 :30pm We Care About ''U' 1 a~prn & 1 0:30pm The Hunt for Red October 203 410 Aud. Aud. 410 Aud. Saturday, Sept. 29: 8:pm & 10:30pm The Hunt for Red October Aud. Monday, Oct. 1 : 7:30pm Modern language Films 7:30pm SPAAMtg. Tuesday, Oct 2: 5pm Newman Club Supper 7:30pm Eating Disorders Mtg. Wednesday., Oet.. 3: 1:30pm MASS Society Mtg. 7:30 & 9:30pm Young Frankenstein Thursday, Oct 4: 203 406 409 409 & 410 203 Aud. Sunday, Sept 30: 8:pm & 10:30pm The Hunt .for Red October Auct 1 ~ 4 pm t990 Studetlt Activities Exposition Outside The College Canter College Center notes: There is a new change machine located in the games area at the rear of the Dutch Hollow Restaurant. Additional pay and courtesy phones have been added in the front lobby ot the building. The new pool table has been installed to provide more room to play and to make the game available to students more regularly. With a coin operated machine~ you do not need to wait for someone to be working at the info booth. The cost of a game will be 25¢. AU monies collected are used for Student Activities events and programs. .. I i .. · ~ • j 1 ., J I ,. l ,. 4 . '. ' .·,

' ·i I l ·' CONCORDIENSIS, September 27, 1990 CAMPUS NEWS PERSONALS 213. stop by if you are ---------- · interested. We promise to keep it short. I heard big sweaters are \in\ this year.! -\E. the III\ . Psychology Club Meeting tonight 4:30 p.m. Psych Rm. Hey Nosal, WE ARE PLEASED TO OFFER UNION COLLEGE Andrey, TELECOMMUNICATIONS GI:FT CERTIFICATES WHAT EVER THE OCCASION TELEPHONE GIFT CERTIFICATES ARE THE PERFECT WAYiOSAY ... \HAPPY BIRTHDAY\ (]]@l~tr W~ll.JL ®©©~(]] \'I'M SORRY# \WELCOME BACK\ UNION COLLEGE TELEPHONE GIFT \GOOD LUCK\ 111 ©~~~ !Hl©IMI~w CERTIFICATES ARE AVAILABLE FOR PURCHASE AT THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS · OFFICE, COLLEGE CENTER/1 03. FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 37Q-6411. By Leigh Rubin ... AND i=<EI'18\1BER T{:bdJS,I WANT US lO IE\VE lHIS CANIP- GPoJND AS FiLTHY AS WE RJUNO IT. Rat Scouts Amnesiacs reminisciRg \Brace yourself. Their meeting is almost over.\ \For the last time. a new microwave is out of the question' What do you think. I'm made out of dough?\ The Minerva Hour Y:ou want to do WHAT with that banana? Synova and Johanna, Bones and Marge Love You. Des, The true love of my life. I Want You. Love, your Secret Admirer. To My .Bubba's: You guys are the Hairy, Sweaty--~ ---! Love You Both, Susie. To My Guys: Sigma Phi Bros. past and present, I wish for you guys a lot of times. I want to see you and talk to you. I wonder what you might be doing and if everything is okay. When I start feeling sad because I miss all of you, I remind myself how lucky I am to have all of you to miss. Love, \Doc\ Cindy and Susie, Welcome back to your last year at Union .. .let's not stress too much! Love- Your apartment-mate. Splash, Yo Baby, Whass Up?! Random channel or Frozen Yoqua (chocolate) Yep, Yep, Yep, Yep! Love, Unfriendly AL RC Cola- I'm .so glad we're living together again. This year is going to be the best yet! Hey Shirley, W or Riboflavin? By the Way, Melissa Gilbea Says Hello. Love Ya, Dievid Attention! ! ! Any students interested in starting a College Democrat's Club, please contact Molly at Box 1433 or at 346-4 722, freshmen welcome!! The Minerva Committee of Union College presents The Fall1990 Schedule Page 17 Curtis - woman, Here's to random nights in the future. Can I come over and watch Jeopardy? More popcorn. Jump on the Gravy Train! Clue-less J.B. I will never yell again!! I promise!! XX:XOOOXXX-5 WRUC!!! Lady C. Three months apart means L- 0- T -S of making up for lost time. Shall I bring a bottle of wine or skip right to the chase? WRUC!!! Listen Always to WRUC Schenectady 89.7 FM! ! ! WRUC - The frrst station in the nation 70 years ago! Happy Birthday WRUC ! ! ! ! WRUC 70 Years!! !! Come help celebrate WRUC's 70th Anniversary Oct. 13 9-12 p.m. L-3 Jahren haben wir zusammen durchgemacht, und ich bin immer noch in Dich , verliebt. (tief) Prost auf viele mehr!'! -F Trace - Wenn Du mich bravchst, bin ich immer da. las wiedesbin Ieben ist zwar schwierig, aber nicht unmoeglich. wir werden es schaffer!! -F. WRUC- 70 years of Alternative Music! Hi MichiL We are back Yeah! Love Ya. Oct. 4 Was the work of early sociologists \gender blind\? Some scholars think so, espe- cially in the light of the fetninist movement. Guenther Roth, professor of sociology at Columbia University, has devoted much of his career to teaching and research on the founders of modern sociology. He will speak on 11 Emile Durkheirn and the Principles of 1789: The Issue of Gender Equality/'

I i .. · ~ • j 1 ., J I ,. l 1 . '. ' .·', . .I . ' '1 , I . f ' l I CONCORDIENSIS, September 27, 1990 Page 17 CAMPUS NEWS PERSONALS 213. Stop by if you are interested. We promise to keep it short. I heard big sweaters are \in\ thi ' s year .. -\E. the III\ Psychology Club Meeting tonight 4:30 p.m. Psych Rm. Hey Nosal, WE ARE PLEASED TO OFFER UNION COLLEGE Andrey, TELECOMMUNICATIONS GIFT CERTIFICATES ·~ WHAT EVER THE OCCASION TELEPHONE GIFT CERIIFICATES ARE THE PERFECT WAY TO SAY. .. 1 'HAPPY BIRTHDAY\ 111 ®~lr ~~OJL ~©©lm 111 \I'M SORRYn \WELCOME BACK\ UNION COLLEGE TELEPHONE GIFT \GOOD LUCK\ w©~ll [K]@~!Ew CERTIFICATES ARE AVAILABLE FOR PURCHASE AT THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS OFFICE, COLLEGE CENTER/103. FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 37Q-6411. By Leigh Rubin ... AND REJV\EMBER. T~~IWANTU5 10 LEAVE lRIS CANIP- GROJND AS FiiTI-IY i6 WEfb~O IT. Rat Scouts Amnesiacs reminiscing \Brace yourself. Their meeting is almost over.\ ··For the last time. a new microwave is out ol the question' What do you think, I'm made out of dough?\ The Minerva Hour You want to do WHAT with that banana? Synova and Johanna, Bones and Marge Love You. Des, The true love of my life. I Want You. Love, your Secret Admirer. To My Bubba's: You guys are the Hairy, Sweaty--- ---! Love You Both, Susie. To My Guys: Sigma Phi Bros. past and present, I wish for you guys a lot of times. I want to see you and talk to you. I wonder what you might be doing and if everything is okay. When I start feeling sad because I miss all of you, I remind myself hvw lucky I am to have all of you to miss. Love, \Doc\ Cindy and Susie, Welcome back to your last year at Union .. .Iet's not stress too much! Love - Your apartment-mate. Splash, Yo Baby, Whass Up?! Random channel or Frozen Yoqua (chocolate) Yep, Yep, Yep, Yep! Love, Unfriendly AL RC Cola- I'm so glad we're living together again. This year is going to be the best yet! Hey Shirley, W or Riboflavin? By the Way, Melissa Gilbea Says Hello. Love Ya, Dievid Attention!!! Any students interested in starting a College Democrat's Club, please contact Molly at Box 1433 or at 346-4722, freshmen welcome!! Curtis - woman, Here's to random nights in the future. Can I come over and watch Jeopardy? More popcorn. Jump on the Gravy Train! Clue-less J.B. I wiU never yell again!! I promise!! XXXOOOXXX-5 WRUC!!! Lady C . Three months apart means L- 0- T-S of making up for lost time. Shall I bring a bottle of wine or skip right to the chase? WRUC!!! Listen Always to WRUC Schenectady 89.7 FM ! ! ! WRUC- The first station in the nation 70 years ago! Happy Birthday WRUC! ! !! WRUC 70 Years!!!! Corne help celebrate WRUC's 70th Anniversary Oct. 13 9- I 2 p.m. L-3 Jahren habcn wir zusammen durchgemacht, und ich bin immer noch in Dich verliebt. (tief) Prost auf viele rnehr!! -F Trace - Wenn Du mich bravchst, bin ich immer da. las wiedesbin Ieben ist zwar schwierig, aber nicht umnoeglich. wir werden es schaffer!! -F. WRUC- 70 years of Alternative Music! Hi Michi L We are back Yeah! Love Ya. LJL ECONOMICS CLUB 1ST MEETING OF THE YEAR MONDAY, OCTOBER 1st 3:30 p.m. SS103 The Minerva Committee of Union College presents The Fall1990 Schedule Oct. 4 Was the work of early sociologists \gender blind\? Some scholars think so, espe- cially in the light of the fetninist movement. Guenther Roth, professor of sociology at Columbia University, has devoted rnuch of his career to teaching and research on the founders of modern sociology. He will speak on \Emile Durkhehn and the Principles of 1789: The Issue of Gender Equality.\

). Page 18 CONCORDIENSIS, September 27, 1990 Cirnnrnrbtrnsis SPORTS Men's Cross Country Puts Best Foot Forward By GREG BARRETT September 15th brought the Union College Men's Cross- Country team to a damp, muddy course at ·SUNY Oneonta. This was the first meet of the year and served as the proving grounds for the squad. They had just completed a gruelling two-week pre- season training which included a date with a two and a half mile hill. The weather held fast and the Dutchmen were off and running. Senior Mike Martinez led the team through the 4.7 mile course capturing second place with a time of 28:54. Greg Barrett was second for Union finishing in fifth place in 30:06. Adam Reisman followed close behind in_ 30:27 in sixth place. Rich Zembek was the next to cross the line a mere 12 seconds behind in seventh place. Sophomore Bill Taylor rounded out the team in ninth place with a time of 32:32. This gave the Dutchmen 29 points which came just short of Oneonta's 26. Last Saturday, the men traveled to Williams College for the annual Williams Invitational. The field was composed of seventeen schools that included S()rne of the area's top runners. Mike Martinez and Greg Barrett led ,the Dutchmen to a thirtee11th place finish. Martinez finis.hed the 8,000m course in 30: 16 which captured him a seventy-first place finish out of over 130 runners. Barrett was close behind in 30:32 with a seventy-fomilh place finish. Adam Reisman was next for Union in ninety-third place with a time of 32:18. Ed Rothenberg vtas ninety-eigbth and fourth for Union crossing in 32:52 wit:ll Rich Zembek right behind him in ninety- ninth place. The men are off to a good start with the bulk of the season's big meets coming up in two weeks. This weekend they travel to Hamilton College to compete in their second dual meet. The Union Cross-Country teams are b()sting both the State Meet and the NCAA Regional Qualifier this year on their home c<>urse at Saratoga State Park. These meets attract some of the finest runners from over 25 sch()e]s all over New York State ~nd from as far away as Maille. Be sure to set aside November third and November tenth to watch the action. Women's X-Country Opens Season at Williams By MEG PARSONS Last Saturday morning the Union College Women's Cross Country team was at it again. After a week of preseason and one preseason race, the ladies were ready to test themselves on the hilly 5 kilometer (3.1 mile) course at Williams College. Predictably the weather was cool and damp, but as any good Union sports fan knows, what would a meet be without rain? The first finisher for Union was junior co-captain Sandy \Kick butt\ A.nselment in 23 minutes ami 11 seconds. Anselment, who had a great season last year. is looking forward to going even faster this year. s~cond place for Union was sophomore newcomer 1'asha \Spaz\ LaBarre, finishing in 23 minutes ami 50 seconds. LaBarre is a transfer from Russell Sage College and will be a strong ,addition to the team. Back for their second years with Union Cross Country are seniors Lauren \Hurry up\ Backed by solid goal-tending, Sabra Hall and the rest of the womeA's soccer team are in control and looking ahead. Men's Soccer ... continued from page 20 Tim Walsh, but saw the Continentals tie it up two minutes before the final whistle. The effect of the goal carried into the extra time, and Hamilton used the momentum and the cheers of their notoriousl; loyal fans to put in two £Oals. Strong performances were put in again by Viviano in goal, Reaman, D.J. Hodson, and Danny \Slender\ Wilmont. The Dutchmen are now in the midst of .an extended homestand, and following yesterday's game with Middlebury, host tough Cortland State. Notes: The Dutchmen will be without the services of Senior play-maker Davey Haas for four games (damaged hamstring) ... The team posted a 4-1-1 record in Germany ... Jed Nosal is \the best 12- minute player I've seen in years,\ a longtime follower of the Dutchmen was quoted at Skidmore. Maybe if they playep him more the team would win occasionally ... Soph Joel Volterra reports that he's feeling fine, and is \absolutely not injured\ ... Rob Kaulbach, isn't injured either, and reports that off campus living is fun, \but the commute is a hassle.\ Despite this evidence to the contrary, it was Hobart, not Union, that fell on its face Saturday. Karp and Clare \Mrs.\ Megathlin, and sophomore Kristen \Unifonn?\ Welch. Karp finished third for Union with a time of 24 minutes 11 seconds, while Welch finished closely in fourth in 24:20. Megathlin closed out fifth in a time of 27.21. The team is small but strong and work continues every afternoon to get stronger. This Saturday the team will travel to Hamilton College with hopes of better weather and faster times. Sept. 8 15 22 17 19 15 18 21 22 24 15 17 19 22 24 15 19 22 17 18 22 24 15 22 SCOREBOARD UNION28 UNION20 UNION 59 UNION1 UNION1 UNION2 UNIONO UNION1 UNIONS UNION3 UNIONO UNION3 UNION1 UNION4 UNION3 Football St. Lawrence 7 Rochester 27 Hobart 10 Men's Soccer Skidmore 2 Hamilton 3 20T Field Hockey Oswego 0 Hamilton 2 Rochester 3 Wells 1 Skidmore 2 20T Women's Soccer Binghamton 3 New Paltz 1 Siena 2 Mt. Holyoke 1 Russell Sage 0 Volleyball North Country Tourney Finished 6th of 8 UNION 1.5-12 15-13 over Vassar UNION 15-8 15-6 over Skidmore UNION INVITATIONAL Finished 2nd of 4 Women's Tennis (1-0) (1-1) (2-1) (0-1) (0-,2) (1-0) (1-1) (1-2) (2-2) (3-2) (0-1) (1-1) (1-2) (2-2) (3-2) UNION Siena Cancelled UNION3 Hamilton 6 (0-1) UNION North Adams UNIONS Russell Sage 1 (1-1) Cross Country UNION29 Oneonta 26 (0-1) Williams lnvy I Men - Finished 13 of 16 435 Women Finished 15 of 16 532 l I l I .l I I I \ \ i ., ./ ., I ~

Page 18 CONCORDIENSIS, September 27, 1990 <!loltfllrbirnzts SPORTS Men's Cross Country Puts Best Foot Forward By GREG BARRETT September 15th brought the Union College Men's Cross- CvunLry team to a damp, muddy course at SUNY Oneonta. This was the first meet of the year and served as the proving grounds for the squad. They had just completed a gruelling two-week pre- season training which included a date with a two and a half mile hill. The weatJ1er held fast and the Dutchmen were off and running. Senior Mike Martinez led the team through the 4.7 mile course capturing second place with a time of 28:54. Greg Barrett was second for Union finishing in fifth place in 30:06. Adatn Reisman followed close behind in 30:27 in sixth place. Rich Zembek was the next t(} cross the line a mere 12 sec[)nds behind in seventh place. Sophomore Bill Taylor rounded out the team in ninth place with a time of 32:32. This gave the Dutchmen 29 points which came just short of Oneonta's 26. Last Saturday, the men traveled to Williams College for the anntial Williams Invitational. The field was composed of seventeen schools that included some of the area's top runners. Mike Martinez and Greg Barrett led the Dutchmen to a thirteenth place finish. Martinez finished the 8,000m course in 30:16 which captured him a seventy- first place finish out of over 130 runners. Barrett was close behi11d in 30:32 with a sevcnty-fowth place finish. Adam Reisman was next for Union in ninety-third place with a time of 32:18. Ed Rothenberg was ninety-eig1ah and fourth for Union crossing in 32:52 witll Rich Zembek right behind him in ninety- ninth place. The men are off to a good start with the bulk of the season's big meets coming up in two weeks. This weekend they travel to Hamilton College to cDmpete in their second dual meet. The Union Cross-Country teams are hosting both the State Meet and the NCAA Regional Qualifier this year on their home C{)Urse at Saratoga State Park. These meets attract some of the finest runners from over 25 schools all over New York State and from as far away as Maine. Be sure to set aside November third and November tenth to watch the action. Women's X-Country Opens Season at Williams By MEG FARSONS Last Saturday morning the Union College Women's Cross Country team was at it again. After a week of preseason and one preseason race, the ladies were ready tO> test themselves on the hilly 5 kilometer (3.1 mile) course at Williams College. Predictably tile weather was cool and damp, bllt as any good Union sports fan knows, what would a meet be without rain? The first finisher for Union was junior C<l-captain Sandy \Kick butt\ Anselment in 23 minutes and 11 seconds. Anselment, who had a great season last year, is looking forward to going even faster this year. Second place for Union was sophomore newcomer 'Tasha \Spaz\ LaBarre, finishing in 23 minutes an<l 50 seconds. LaBarre is a transfer from Russell Sage College and will be a strong addition to the team. Back for their second years with Union Cross Country are seniors Lat~ren \Hurry up\ Backed by solid goal-tending, Sabra Hall and the rest of the women's soccer team are in control and looking ahead. Men's Soccer ... Continued from page 20 Tim Walsh, but saw the Continentals tie it up two minutes before the final whistle. The effect of the goal carried into the extra time, and Hamilton used tlle momentum and the cheers of their notorious!; loyal fans to put in two goals. Strong performances were put in again by Viviano in goal, Reaman, D.J. Hodson, and Danny \Slender\ Wilmont. ~ ~ 0 :::c z ~ , .. ...J . ...J . <( . ·· .. fn § 0.. The Dutchmen are now in the midst of an extended homestand, and following yesterday's game with Middlebury, h<lst tough Cortland State. Notes: The Dutchmen will be without the services of Senior play-maker Davey Haas for four games (damaged hamstring) ... The team posted a 4-1-1 record in Germany ... Jed Nosal is \tile best 12- minute player I've seen in years,\ a longtime follower of the Dutchmen was quoted at Skidmore. Maybe if they played him more the team would win occasionally ... Soph Joel Volterra reports that he's feeling fine, and is \absolutely not injured\ ... Rob Kaulbach, isn't injured either, and reports that off campus living is fun, \but the commute is a ha~sle.\ Despite this evidence to the contrary, it was Hobart, not Union, that fell on its face Saturday. Karp and Clare \Mrs.\ Megathlin. and sophomore Kristen \Uniform?\ Welch. Karp finished third for Union with a time of 24 minutes 11 seconds, while Welch finished closely in fourth in 24:20. Megathlin closed out fifth in a time of 27.21. The team is small but strong and work continues every afternoon to get stronger. This Saturday the team will travel to Hamilton College with hopes of better weather and faster times. I ltr- Sept. 8 15 22 17 19 15 18 21 22 24 15 17 19 22 24 15 19 22 17 18 22 24 15 22 SCOREBOARD UNION28 UNION20 UNION 59 UNION1 UNION1 UNION2 UNIONO UNION1 UNION3 UNION3 UNIONO UNION3 UNION1 UNION4 UNION3 Football St. Lawrence 7 Rochester 27 Hobart 10 Men's Soccer Skidmore 2 Hamilton 3 20T Field Hockey Oswego 0 Hamilton 2 Rochester 3 Wells 1 Skidmore 2 20T Women's Soccer Binghamton 3 New Paltz 1 Siena 2 Mt. Holyoke 1 Russell Sage 0 Volleyball North Country Tourney Finished 6th of 8 UNION15-12 15-13overVassar UNION 15-8 15-6 over Skidmore UNION INVITATIONAL Finished 2nd of 4 Women's Tennis (1-0) (1-1) (2-1) (0-1) (0-2) (1-0) (1-1) (1-2) (2-2) (3-2) (0·1) (1-1) (1-2) (2-2) (3-2) UNION Siena Cancelled UNION3 Hamilton 6 (0-1) UNION North Adams UNIONS Russell Sage 1 (1-1 ) Cross Country UNION29 Oneonta 26 (0-1) Williams lnvy Men Finished 13 of 16 435 Women Finished 15 of 16 532

CONCORDIENSIS, September 27, 1990 Page 19 C1Jnnmrbirnsis SPORTS Kat'h:y Lawliss Leads Soccer to ·B,est Start I By ANDY BRAVER Spor,ts Editor Senior goalkeeper Kathy Lawliss made 45 saves in the first fi.ve .games for the women's soccer team, and has led the Lady Dutchmen to their best start In history at 3-2. For her effor.ts, Lawliss is this year's first recipient of the Cooc4>rclieDsis Sports Athlete eHhe Week .award. The tw<Hime letter winner and former haUback offered to play goalie tbis fall when no one emerged as a stalwart stopper. Th<>ugh she might not have the e:xperience of most senior g<lalies, Lawliss certainly bts the confidence of her second-year coach, Suzanne Zaloom, who feels that she Coming soon co~ld be the best backstop Umon has ever had. So far this season, Lawliss has done nothng but prove her Kathy Lawliss coach a prophet. In her first ever start between the pipes, a 3-0 loss to Binghamton, Lawliss made 10 saves. She • • • 10 • 10 • 90 Wome·n's in History made 18 saves the next time out against New Paltz, helping Union record its first win of the season, 3-1, and another 16 saves in a 2-1 loss to Siena. Lawliss also recorded her first career shutout against Russell Sage this past Monday, which was also her second straight victory. Lawliss is no stranger at winning awards. She was Union•s outstanding freshman student-athlete. and she won a similar award last year as a junior. As a three-time letter winner and starting shortstop of the softball team, Lawliss also hit over .300 last season. Congratulations and continued success to Kathy Lawliss, this week's Athlete of the Week. The winning combination for students, employers, and educators ! Career Festival '90 12 noon- 4PM Field House For more information, call CDC at 370-6176. CONCORDIEINISIS SPORTS QlVJrES1fU(O)lMJ (O)fF 1flHliE WlElEl For what Major League teams did Babe Ruth play? [HI NT: It was more than 2 teams!) Th& VY'inner receives a LARGE DOMINO·s PIZZA! On& weekly Winner shall be randomly chosen from _____ all correct entries. Submit entries to BOX 2 12 no later than 5:00 on the Monday after e-ach issue .of t\:t?JJt'>..'>f~ Mouthing Off Places, Right and Wrong By ANDY BRAVER Sports Editor Boy, it's good to be back. After three months, I finally feel like I am back where I belong-- here, at Union. This is the RIGHT place, at least for me. [Well, maybe not. but let's just make believe it is for the duration of this article.] For cores of athletes, though, the RIGHT place is not something they can determine that they are in. Sometimes it just hits them in the face. On other occasions though, it doesn't just hit them; they get knocked over, and when they hit the ground, they realize that the right place is anything BUT RIGHT. Take Scott Stevens of the Washington Capitals for example. He took a big blow on the chin from being caught in the middle of a great sitqation, a blow worth $5.1 million over four seasons which nicely broke his fall. Stevens ended up in the right place at the right time by accident. He wasn't even the best defenseman on his own team last year, but because he was a restricted free agent with corripensation, any team that wanted to sign him had to make an offer that the Capitals would not match. The St. Louis Blues did just that. They i.gnored the NHL salary structure and signed Stevens to a grossly inflated offer sheet. Now if Ray Borque or even Kevin Hatcher, the best defenseman on the Capitals, had been in Stevens' enviable position, they probably would have garnered even more from a prospective and needy team. Unfortunately, they weren't in the RIGHT place when the money was being handed out by the Blues. [I know Barque just signed a new contract, but Stevens is still making more. And imagine if Borque was the free agent. How much money would a team have paid him, $2 million a year?] The same thing happened to John 'Hot Rod' Williams of the Cleveland Cavaliers (not for long?). He is pretty good, but considering the NBA's current salary structure, the only living human who could possibly accept $5 million dollars for this upcoming season is Michael Jordan. 'Hot Rod' got knocked over by being in the RIGHT place, but he had over 26 million friends breaking his fall. Patrick Ewing of the Knicks is also in the RIGHT place. Because of his contract structure, he will become a restricted free agent after the upcoming season because more than three players are making over $3 million this year. Who in their right mind could have believed that salaries could exceed such exorbitant numbers? I don't think Ewing did when he signed the contract, but now he is sitting smack in the middle of the RIGHT place. Imagine what kind of offers he could get-- $6 million, $7 million, A YEAR! Wow! · That's exactly what 24-year- old tennis phenom Jennifer Capriati is making. She burst onto the scene as a 14-year-old, and has taken women's tennis be storm. It's not that big of a storm, but she is only 14 years old and she's not bad for a 14- year-old. Did I mention that she is only 14 years old? Enough cynicism and sarcasm. [To be honest, I wouldn't mind being in her shoes right now, but I don't know how I would get them on my feet] It seems that the athletes that I have mentioned have all found themselves in the RIGHT place only when the money was being handed out. However, that's not always the case. Pete Samprass [who is not 14 years old, but he once was] found himself RIGHT in the middle of one of the most dominating service performances in tennis history at the U.S.Open. Samprass disposed of Ivan Lendl, John McEnroe,and Andrea Agassi [all of whom found themselves in the WRONG place] on the way to his first Grand Slam title. Countless others have found themselves exactly where they wanted to be, but I feel it's time to mention some of those who didn't want to be anywhere near where they were. Dave Winfield had to deal with New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner for almost 10 years and he didn't deserve a second of it. Actually, Steinbrenner has been in the WRONG place since he bought the team 18 years ago. Steve Young, the multi- . talented back-up quarterback for the San Francisco 49ers, is also in the WRONG place. His team is winning and he is making great money, but he is not playing, and that is what he wants to do. But if he stays in the place he is now, he rarely will play. Finally, it's time to mention three groups of people who have found themselves in the wrong place for decades on end, but they can't find any place that's beter. Chicago Cubs , fans, Boston Red Sox fans, and New York Ranger fans have been in the WRONG place season after season. Unfortunately, I doubt that any of them will ever find themselves in the RIGHT place. It's too hard .to find. • --- _.,.... .. ,-.

CONCORDIENSIS, September 27, 1990 Page 19 <ii.onrorbirnsiz SPORTS Kathy Law:liss Leads Best Start Soccer to By ANDY BRAVER Sports Editor Senior goalkeeper Kathy Lawliss made 45 saves in the first five games for the women's soccer team, and has led the Lady Dutchmen to their best start in history at 3-2. For her efforts, Lawliss is this year's first recipient of the C o n co r d i e n s is Sports Athlete of the Week award. The two-time letter winner and former halfback offered to play goalie this fall when no one emerged as a stalwart stopper. Though she might not have the experience of most senior goalies, Lawliss certainly has the confidence of her second-year coach, Suzanne Zaloom, who feels that she Coming soon could be the best backstop Union has ever had. So far this season, Lawliss has done nothng but prove her Kathy Lawliss coach a prophet. In her first ever start between the pipes, a 3-0 loss to Binghamton, Lawliss made 10 saves. She .. . . 10 • 10 • 90 Women's in History made 18 saves the next time out against New Paltz, helping Union record its first win of the season, 3-1, and another 16 saves in a 2-1 loss to Siena. Lawliss also recorded her first career shutout against Russell Sage this past Monday, which was also her second straight victory. Lawliss is no stranger at winning awards. She was Union's outstanding freshman student-athlete, and she won a similar award last year as a junior. As a three-time letter winner and starting shortstop of the softball team, Lawliss also hit over .300 last season. Congratulations and continued success to Kathy Lawliss, this week's Athlete of the Week. The winning combination for students, employers, and educators ! Career Festival '90 12 noon- 4PM Field House For more information, call CDC at 370-6176. Listen to the Dutchmen Network Sports 8 .,,, ... ,. . :·· ..• · .···.:. O ·n··.··.·.\. ' • ~';- ~:~ c FMWKUC. --~--~_ .... _ ..... ~---·-;- .. CONCORDIENS~S SPORTS CQ1lUllE$1rU(O)~ (O)[F i~lE WlElE~ For what Major League teams did Babe Ruth play? [HINT: It was more than 2 teams!] The Viinner receiv&s a LARGE DOMINo·s PIZZA! One weekly ~nner shall be randomly chosen from ..-- ..... all correct entri<ts. Submit entries to BOX 2 12 no later than 5:00 on the Monday after each issu& of t':i?JJt').?rti.I{9JJs:is. Mouthing Off Places, Right and Wrong By ANDY BRAVER Sports Editor Boy, it's good to be back. After three months, I finally feel like I am back where I belong-- here, at Union. This is the RIGHT place, at least for me. [Well, maybe not, but let's just make believe it is for the duration of this article.] For ~cores of athletes, though, the RIGHT place is not something they can determine that they arc in. Sometimes it just hits them in the face. On other occasions though, it doesn't just hit them; they get knocked over, and when they hit the ground, they realize that the right place is anything BUT RIGHT. Take Scott Stevens of the Washington Capitals for example. He took a big blow on the chin from being caught in the middle of a great situation, a blow worth $5.1 million over four seasons which nicely broke his fall. Stevens ended up in the right place at the right time by accident. He wasn't even the best defenseman on his own team last year, but because he was a restricted free agent with compensation, any team that wanted to sign him had to make an offer that the Capitals would not match. The St. Louis Blues did just that. They ignored the NHL salary structure and signed Stevens ID a grossly inflated offer sheet. Now if Ray Borque or even Kevin Hatcher, the best defenseman on the Capitals, had been in Stevens' enviable position, they probably would have garnered even more from a prospective and needy team. Unfortunately, they weren't in the RIGHT place when the money was being handed out by the Blues. [I know Barque just signed a new contract, but Stevens is still making more. And imagine if Borque was the free agent. How much money would a team have paid him, $2 million a year?] The same thing happened to John 'Hot Rod' Williams of the Cleveland Cavaliers (ndt for long?). He is pretty good, but considering the NBA's current salary structure, the only living human who could possibly accept $5 million dollars for this upcoming season is Michael Jordan. 'Hot Rod' got knocked over by being in the RIGHT place, but he had over 26 million friends breaking his fall. Patrick Ewing of the Knicks is also in the RIGHT place. Because of his contract structure, he will become a restricted free agent after the upcoming season because more than three players arc making over $3 million this year. Who in their right mind could have believed that salaries could exceed sue h exorbitant numbers? I don't think Ewing did when he signed the contract, but now he is sitting smack in the middle of the RIGHT place. Imagine what kind of offers he could get-- S6 million, $7 million, A YEAR! Wow! · That's exactly what 24-year- old tennis phenom Jennifer Capriati is making. She hurst onto the scene as a I 4-ycar-old, and has taken women's tennis be storm. It's not that big of a storm, but she is only 14 years old and she's not bad for a 14- year-old. Did I mention that she is only 14 years old? Enough cynicism and sarcasm. [To be honest, I wouldn't mind being in her shoes right now, but I don't know how I would get them on my feet.] It seems that the athletes that I have mentioned have all found themselves in the RIGHT place only when the money was being handed out. However, that's not always the case. Pete Samprass (who is not 14 years old, but he once was! found himself RIGHT in the middle of one of the most dominating service performances in tennis history at the U.S.Open. Samprass disposed of Ivan Lend!, John McEnroe,and Andrea Agassi [all of whom found themselves in the WRONG place) on the way to his first Grand Slam title. Countless others have found themselves exactly where they wanted to be, but I feel it's time to mention some of those who didn't want ID be anywhere ncar where they were. Dave Winfield had to deal with New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner for almost 10 years and he didn't deserve a second of it. Actually, Steinbrenner has been in the WRONG place since he bought the team 18 years ago. Steve Young, the multi- talented back-up quarterback for the San Francisco 49crs, is also in the WRONG place. His team is winning and he is making great money, but he is not playing, and that is what he wants to do. But if he stays in the place he is now, he rarely will play. Finally, it's time to mention three groups of people who have found themselves in the wrong place for decades on end, but they can't find any place that's beter. Chicago Cubs fans, Boston Red Sox fans, and New York Ranger fans have been in the WRONG place season after season. Unfortunately. I doubt that any of them will ever ftnJ themselves in thC' RHI HT place. It's too hard t1) rin,1 • _..,.... ...

-~' \\\\' ?i\\>3~'lt ~$; i~~~' ~~ Wl f! The Rugby Team, sporting new black uniforms, Is looking for It's fl.rst win of the season after starting out 0·2. The Field Hockey Team Is 3m2 after a thrilling come-fromm behind double overtime 3·2 win against Skidmore on Monday. Men's Soccer Looking Ahead By FRIEDS The 1990 edition of the men's soccer team dropped their first two games of the season after experiencing considerable success on their pre-season trip to Germany. The opening game, played at Skidmore, saw the Dutchmen felled by a 2-1 margin. The much improved Skiddies held Union scoreless for the first half, while putting in a flukisb goal past junior Paul Viviano, who played a stellar game in net. Skidmore and Union exchanged offensive bursts in the half, but aside from the fluke goal during a Union breakdown, the teams were held in check. In the second half, a much more fired up Union team gave their travelling groupies more to cheer about. They dominated the early play-hard work which resulted in the equalizer about 20 minutes into the half. Junior Jem \Skipster\ Solinger hit a beautiful free kick into the Skidmore penalty area, wh~re classmate Adam Epstein looped a header over the gealkeeper. The hard work was apparently not good enough, however, as Union failed to click again. Missed chances by the strikers led to mental breakdowns all over the place. The most crucial error was perhaps the changing of Captain Eric Reaman from his marking of the Skidmore striker after drawing a yellow card. Re2-man had kept his opponent frustrated all day, and minutes following the switch, the highly regarded Skidmore player put in the game winner, after which it became apparent the move was indeed questionable. The team traveled to hated Hamilton next, where they suffered a difficult 3-1 loss in overtime. Union held a 1-0 lead thanks to a goal by frosh Continued on page 18 SPORTSWEEK Thursday, September 27 Women's Soccer at Hamilton 4:00 Friday, September 28 Volleyball at Plattsburgh Tourney Saturday, September 29 Football at Albany St. Men's Soccer vs. Cortland Field Hockey vs William Smith Volleyball at Plattsburgh Tourney Cross Country at Hamilton Sunday, September 30 Field Hockey vs. Vassar Women's Soccer vs. Vassar Monday, October 1 Men's Soccer vs. Albany St. Tuesday, October 2 Field Hockey at Harkwick Women's Soccer vs. Skidmore Volleyball at St. Rose Women's Tennis at Hartwick Wednesday, October 3 Men's Soccer vs. Vassar 6:00 7:00 2:00 2:00 9:00 1:00 1:00 1:00 3:30 3:30 3:30 7:00 3:30 3:30 September 27, 1990 Fighting Dutchmen Humble Hobart Rival Albany Looms Ahead By ANDREW SEEWALD Editor-in-Chief It seemed that even when they were not trying to score, the Union football team would find themselves in the end zone. And so a game whose out.come was effectively decided in the second quarter turned into a 59-10 thrashing of the visiting Hobart Statesmen. \It was one of those nice games when you get a chance to play a lot of kids,\ said the head coach of the Dutchmen, AI Bagnoli. \It keeps everyone's interest and we're high on some of our young kids.\ Most of the kids did not see time until the second half, when a 35-3 first half had . Union flying high and left the · Statesmen listening for a standing eight count. Instead, what the Statesmen heard were repeated choruses of the Union Alma Mater by a crowd of 3,700 that was barely given time to catch its breath between Dutchmen touchdowns. As the game began, the Union faithful perhaps ·had reason to croon a more somber tune. The Dutchmen were coming off a 27-20 loss at the University of Rochester, their frrst regular season defeat since 1988 Bryan Savage and Bob Riglietti, the two starting linebackers, were out with injuries. Aaron Root, a starting wideout, was also out. Throw in an overcast sky with a threat of rain on an already damp field, and Gamet fans had good reason to be concerned. Then, on the first series of the game, Hobart drove down the field and booted a 27-yard field goal to take the early lel}d. Less than three minutes later, thout;h, quarterback Brett Russ tossed a 15-yard touchdown pass to fullback Tom Lombardoni. That score began a string of 52 unanswered Dutchmen points as the Dutchmen piled up impressive numbers. Russ flicked three touchdown passes for the fourth time in a game for his career. Tailback Alex Felipe went over 100 yards in the first half and wound up with 141. As a team, the Dutchmen ground game amassed 399 yards, and six players carried for at least 20 yards. The passing game accounted for 174 ·yards, even with Russ enjoying the fmal quarter and a half from the bench. Russ' replacement, Brian Harris, a freshman who transferred from Hofstra, looked impressive in completing both of his passes for 21 yards. Bagnoli described Harris as an exceptional athlete, and a quarterback \like none we've had here in a while.\ With Harris at the helm and a big lead on the scoreboard, the Dutchmen played a conservative running game for most of the second half. Even so, they cut through the porous Hobart defense and could not help but roll up the score. Chris Dc~ker blocked a punt and returned it for a touchdown for Union's final score. It was Decker's second blocked punt of the season. As for the kids who were pressed in to duty at the outset, Shaun Cutting and Mark Michalisim did a more than adequate job filling in for the injured Savage and RigHetti. ·· -- A Homer Series The Dutchmen travel to Albany State Saturday, for an evening game with a 7:00 starting time. The home team has won each of the frrst five games in the series. Last season, the Dutchmen posted a 36-22 come-from-behind victory at Frank Bailey Field · The Great Danes were trounced by Springfield. 51-24, last week and stand at 1-2. Union, which opened the season with a 28-7 home victory over St. Lawrence, is 2-1. Union Climbs in Poll Mter dropping from first to fourth after the loss to Rochester, the Dutchmen climbed back to third place in the Champion Upstate New York Poll thanks to the Yellowjackets' 7-6 loss to Washington (MO) University. Ithaca, a 27-14 winner .over Alfred, tops the poll, while Cortland State remained in second place after beating Buffalo, 21-12. Rochester is fourth and RPI is fifth. Savage, who was out with a broken thumb, will return to the lineup against Albany. Riglietti, out with a neck injury, will likely be out a while longer. If you are interested in writing for SPORTS, contact Andy at 381-4651 or Box 212. No experience necessary, just enthusiasm ·

\' -;~~ ?S I}~ w ··.:·. The Rugby Team, sporting new black uniforms, Is looking for It's first win of the season after starting out 0·2. The Field Hockey Team Is 3·2 after a thrilling come-from- behind double overtime 3-2 win against S;kidmore on Monday. Men's Soccer Looking Ahead By FRIEDS The 1990 edition of the men's soccer team dropped their first tw() games of the season after experiencing considerable success on their pre-season trip toGennany. The opening game, played at Skidmore, saw the Dutchmen felled by a 2-1 margin. The much improved Skiddies held Union scoreless for the first half, while putting in a flukish goal past junior Paul Viviano, who played a stellar game in net. S kidrnore and Union exchanged offensive bursts in the half, but aside from the fluke goal during a Union breakdown, the teams were held in check. In the second half, a much rnore fired up Union team gave their travelling groupies more to cheer about. They dominated the early play-hard work which resulted in the equalizer about 20 minutes into the half. Junior Jcm \Skipster\ Solinger hit a beautiful free kick into the Skidmore penalty area, where classmate Adam Epstein looped a header over the goalkeeper. The hard work was apparently not good enough, however, as Union failed to click again. Missed chances by the strikers led to mental breakdowns all over the place. The most crucial error was perhaps the changing of Captain Eric Reaman from his marking of the Skidmore striker after drawing a yellow card. Ree-rnan had kept his opponent frustrated all day, and minutes following the switch, the highly regarded Skidmore player put in the game winner, after which it became apparent the move was indeed questionable. The team traveled to hated Hamilton next, where they suffered a difficult 3-1 loss in overtime. Union held a 1-0 Jead thanks to a goal by frosh Continued on page 18 SPORTSWEEK Thursday, September 27 Women·s Soccer at Hamilton 4:00 Friday, September 28 Volleyball at Plattsburgh Tourney 6:00 Saturday, September 29 Football at Albany St. 7:00 Men's Soccer vs. Cortland 2:00 Field Hockey vs William Smith 2:00 Volleyball at Plattsburgh Tourney 9:00 Cross Country at Hamilton 1 :00 Sunday, September 30 Field t-lockey vs. Vassar Women's Soccer vs. Vassar Monday, October 1 Men's Soccer vs. Albany St. Tuesday, October 2 Field Hockey at Harkwick Women's Soccer vs. Skidmore Volleyball at St. Rose Women's Tennis at Hartwick Wednesday, October 3 Men's Soccer vs. Vassar 1:00 1:00 3:30 3:30 3:30 7:00 3:30 3:30 September 27, 1990 Fighting Dutchmen Humble Hobart Rival Albany Looms Ahead By ANDREW SEEWALD Editor-in-Chief It seemed that even when they were not trying to score, the Union football team would find themselves in the end zone. And so a game whose outcome was effectively decided in the second quarter turned into a 59-10 thrashing of the visiting Hobart Statesmen. \It was one of those nice games when you get a chance to play a lot of kids,\ said the head coach of the Dutchmen, Al Bagnoli. \It keeps everyone's interest and we're high on some of our young kids.\ Most of the kids did not see time until the second half, when a 35-3 first half had Union flying high and left the Statesmen listening for a standing eight count. Instead, what the Statesmen heard were repeated choruses of the Union Alma Mater by a crowd of 3,700 that was barely given time to catch its breath between Dutchmen touchdowns. As the game began, the Union faithful perhaps had reason to croon a more somber tune. The Dutchmen were corning off a 27-20 loss at the University of Rochester, their ftrst regular season defeat since 1988 Bryan Savage and Bob Riglietti, the two starting linebackers, were out with injuries. Aaron Root, a starting wideout. was also out. Throw in an overcast sky with a threat of rain on an already damp field, and Garnet fans had good reason to be concerned. Then, on the first series of the game, Hobart drove down the field and booted a 27-yard field goal to take the early lead. Less than three minutes later, thou!,h, quarterback Brett Russ tossed a 15-yard touchdown pass to fullback Torn Lornbardoni. That score began a string of 52 unanswered Dutchmen points as the Dutchmen piled up impressive numbers. Russ flicked three touchdown passes for the fourth time in a game for his career. Tailback Alex Felipe went over 100 yards in the first half and wound up with 141. As a team, the Dutchmen ground game amassed 399 yards, and six players carried for at least 20 yards. The passing game accounted for 174 yards, even with Russ enjoying the final quarter and a half from the bench. Russ' replacement, Brian Harris, a freshman who transferred from Hofstra, looked impressive in completing both of his passes for 21 yards. Bagnoli described Harris as an exceptional athlete, and a quarterback \like none we've had here in a while.\ With Harris at the helm and a big lead on the scoreboard, the Dutchmen played a conservative running game for most of the second half. Even so, they cut through the porous Hobart defense and could not help but roll up the score. Chris Dt~ker blocked a punt and returned it for a touchdown for Union's final score. It was Decker's second blocked punt of the season. As for the kids who were pressed in to duty at the outset, Shaun Cutting and Mark Michalisim did a more than adequate job filling in for the injured Savage and RigHetti. A Homer Series The Dutchmen travel to Albany State Saturday, for an evening game with a 7:00 starting time. The horne team has won each of the first five games in the series. Last season, the Dutchmen posted a 36-22 come-from-behind victory at Frank Bailey Field. The Great Danes were trounced by Springfield, 51-24, last week and stand at 1-2. Union, which opened the season with a 28-7 home victory over St. Lawrence, is 2-1. Union Climbs in Poll After dropping from first to fourth after the loss to Rochester, the Dutchmen climbed back to third place in the Champion Upstate New York Poll thanks to the Yellowjackets' 7-6 loss to Washington (MO) University. Ithaca, a 27-14 winner over Alfred, tops the poll. while Cortland State remained in second place after beating Buffalo, 21-12. Rochester is fourth and RPI is fifth. Savage, who was out with a broken thumb, will return to the lineup against Albany. Riglietti, out with a neck injury, will likely be out a while longer. If you are interested in writing for SPORTS, contact Andy at 381-4651 or Box 212. No experience necessary, just enthusiasm

