Vol. CXX, No .. 16 Founded a 4.· f'!Jn:m:ll1 ·College 1877 Schenectady, New York March 7, 1991 Fewer Freshmen On Academic Warning Than In Past Years By STEPHANIE FRAY Additionally, there were only 53 students in the Class of 1993 in this situation last fall. The figures also disclosed that while there were 127 students and 109 students on Special Academic Warning and · Academic W aming after the spring terms of 1988 and 1989 Photo of the Week: Spring term is,just around the corner. Three years after the Union College Admissions Office decided to drop the SAT score requirement for applicants and with the General Education program operating in its second year, preliminary studies purport that Union College students are studying more and working harder. · respectively, there were significantly fewer students on SAW and A W after the spring of 1990, with numbers totaling a mere 56. Teachers Recognized At Statistics compiled subsequent to the fall term of the 1990-91 academic year revealed that the Class of 1994 is presently performing much better academically than prior freshman classes. There were only 30 students in the current freshman class who found themselves on Special Academic Warning and Academic Warning, as opposed. to the 65 students in the Classes of 1991 and 1992 who were in similar predicaments with grade point averages below 2.0 after the fall terms of their freshman years. Joseph Mammola. Dean of . Students, speculated that the drop in the number of students placed on A W and SAW at the 196th Founder's Day By JAY FREELAND News Editor The traditional ceremony of Founder's Day at Union College was celebrated last . Thursday, but with more overtones of change for the future than lradition. Held in Memorial Chapel at 11:30 a~m., a crowd of approximately 75 :Professors and faculty, and 35 students witnessed the event commemorating Union's 196th year. Following the robed faculty procession into the Chapel, greetings were offered by President Hull and other members of the platform party including Chairman of the Trustees Norton Reamer, Dean Underwood, Professor Tidmarch, and Jay Freeland, Student Forum president. The keynote speaker for the ceremony was I ohn H. Ostrom, a Union alumnus and a Professor of Geology. Professor Ostrom was also honored by receiving an Honorary Doctorate of Science presented by Reamer and Hull. Also receiving recognition were the three secondary school teachers nominated for their dedication by three Union seniors and former st11dents of theirs. The conferral of the Gideon Hawle Teacher Recognition Awards were also · presented by Hull and Reamer. Arthur Resnick, a graduate of Long Island University was nominated by Tara Tolan, a senior East Asian Studies major. Mr. Resnick coaches soccer, basketball, and baseball at Heathcotte High School and also teaches physical education. · Sister Justina was nominated by senior English major Larissa Lucas. Sister Justina is a Latin teacher at Notre Dame Academy in Worcester, MA. Finally, Sheila Spatter was nominated by Edgar Letriz, a senior French major. Ms. Spalter teaches French and Russian at Abraham Lincoln High in Brooklyn, NY. Professors and Students Hash Out the 60's By JON KELLER On Monday evening, Professors from several departments gathered with about 20 students to discuss various aspects of the 1960s. The quetion addressed by the speakers was \The 1960s: Age of Idealism or Destructive Era\. History professor Andrew Peffer spoke first. raising several objections to the theme chosen for the evening's discussion. He said that the 1960s era should not be characterized in either of these ways. He argued that the period was both realistic and constructive. Though there ·were several facets to his argument, perhaps his most convincing had to do with the The youths were the intellectuals of the era. staying power of the women's movement. Though the ideas which gave rise to the women's movement can be traced back even before Mary Wollstonecraft's time, in the 1960s the women's movement was brought to the forefront of · 1 the American political scene, 1 and has remained an important ·. I issue. · Speaking next, Professor Meade described her college days in the 1960s as a different era from the one we live in today. Back then, . she explained, it was the squares who joined fraternities and · attended football games. There was a sense that political activism was hip, it was Continued on page 3 Mammola asserted that ther.e is strong evidence illustrating that students a.l'e in fact working hal\der. end ()f the 1989-90 spring term could be attributed to the abolition of Camp Union or perhaps to the measles epidemic. He claimed that these two events may have triggered students to increase the amount of time they chose to devote to their studies. Aside from these specific parameters which may be acco11ntable for the decisive analysis of the statistics at lland, he asserted that there is strollg evidence illustrating that students are in fact working harder and he cited higher overall GPAs as a reflection of the college community demonstration of this. However, one must note that the number of students who com]Jrise the student body is signjficantly less than it was when the Class of 1991 matriculated to the institution. Fwtberrnore, it would appear that it is simply too soon to tell exactly what the figures altima.tely mean. In This Issue: International Coverage of the War in The Gulf -page 9 The Debut of the 'Lifestyle' Section ;.page 15 Women's Track Turn.s in Record .. Breaking Performances -page 24

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, March 7, 1991 CHnttntrbtrnsis NEWS ANALYSIS As The Dust Clears. • • By JIM POLITES With the Persian Gulf War approaching a definitive and anti-climactic finale in favor of the Allied Forces, this seems an opportune moment in time to assess the true winners and losers among the major players in this sordid and intricate game dubbed the Middle East conflict. In the spirit of Newsweek magazine's Conventional Wisdom Watch, this final news analysis article of the term will grant accolades to those figures who have emerged from the battle ~against Iraq's aggression with enhanced public image, while doling out appropriate words of degradation to those people and parties most deserving of harsh criticism during this trying time of global upheaval. First of all, we have George Bush. There is no more monumental victor than the President himself - for while he can take hollow verbal responsibility for the United States' tremendous success overseas, it must be remembered that his hard line mandate of Hussein's unconditional withdrawal from Kuwait remained embedded throughout By pointing an accusing finger at Iraq with one hand and patriotically waving the American flag with the other, Bush succeeded in rallying a nation around his just cause - no small feat considering our population's low threshold for war and subsequent loss of lives. The President dealt with Saddam Hussein in a manner that epitomized the type of direct, forceful figure that has the distinct ability to capture the imagination of an entire country. At the same time, he effectively reinforced a public perception that once wavered under uncertainty of Bush's conviction as U.S. chief commander. His actions were straightforward and unforgiving, though appropriately tinged with genuine remorse for those lives that were sacrificed. Looking down the road, it was assumed that the President could orchestrate his own script of the 1992 national election depending on the outcome of the Middle East Crisis. Bush can ride the wave .()f patriotism he has created to and through any challenge he may face next year. The Republican party will in all likelihcod not even select an opposition for reasons of wasted time, money, and ·effort. Maybe the Democrats should begin to think along the same lines. Next, there is General Colin Powell, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. With his sound military expertise and affable public demeanor, Powell, like the President himself, was able to blend a strong sense of nationalism with words and ideas that lent legitimacy to ·the war effort. Powell exuded all the qualities of the consummate There is no more monumental victor than the president llimself • • statesman. always presenting a calm, effective, and consistently positive image of an otherwise brutal affair. In many ways, the Chairman was more impressive than Bush himself, for he was able to bestow his extensive military know ledge on an American population who for so long before the Persian Gulf War associated his name only with th~'- of a black general. ~cgardless, Powell is also a distinguished winner in the grand scheme of things, as his future prospects with the government seem bright indeed. If I were Dan Quayle, I'd be constantly peering over my shoulder to see how close Mr. Powell is bec()ming with the nation's brass. A vice- presidential nomination is certainly not out of the question. The final U.S. victor of the Iraq conflict is none other than General H. Norman Schwarzkopf - a man who has come to symbolize American dominance and triumph overseas. Throughout the six-week battle,. Stormin' Norman persisted in his rally cries against the evi:l forces of Saddam, at once enervating his military personnel while giving us here in the States a great sense that our involvement was clear .and just, no matter what outside dissenters could say. Schwarzkopf exhibited the admirable qualities of a supreme General who was assigned the burden of protecting the lives of thousands of U.S. soldiers. He carried out his assignment extremely well, always allowing the courageous efforts of our troops to do the loudest talking. It is no wonder why he has become an endeared figure to the American masses. On the opposite end of the spectrum lies a battered and beaten Saddam Hussein- at the outset a valid threat to global sanctity but now a defeated Third World commander with a diminishing image among his people. Saddarn's rise was precipitated by the conclusion of war with Iran and enhanced by a post-battle fervor that overthrew the ex1stmg government of Kuwait The premise of Saddarn's power was rooted in a false sense of regional superiority, one that som~how carried the belief that a comparably incapable army such as Iraq's could stand up to American troops. Recent reports have Saddam's public stranglehold diminishing - don't be surprised if he and his immediate empire crumble in the near future. Finally, there is the plight of Kuwait - a tiny Middle East emirate who never asked to be Takes a Lickirr, Keeps on Tic Kin: caught in the center of a brutal war. The nation was toppled by a greedy dictator who invaded Kuwaiti lives with a chaos that will not soon be for,gotten. Saddam violated the rights of an entire people, blatantly disregarding the fact that his The nation was toppled by a greedy dictator who invaded Kllwaiti lives with a chaos that will not soon be forgotten. own exploits caused widespread disruption in communities he had no place to involve himself. As we all witness Iraqi troops withdraw from inside the borders of Kuwait, it is much too little too 'late. An indelible mark of blind destruction will live on forever regardless, though, with the oppressive shadow of an over- aggressive neighbor serving as a dark reminder. . Thou:gh it is relatively stmple to assign distinct labels to prominent figures involved in such a mGnumental world event, let us remember that these are only the. public beneficiaries (and losers) of war - a word that lends itself to the good of no ·One. When speaking of war, the fact that images were enhanced or political ambitions were bolstered is of no real conseq11ence. If one would like to examine those who truly lost over the last months, address the families whose loved ones .perished battling for American values. These are the people who must live on, questioning forever the true ideals of a dangerous game called war. WANT A GREAT JOB NEXT YEAR? APPLY FOR A POSITION AS A CAREl!l ASSKSTANT Become part of the Career Development Staff We are looking for students interested in becoming Career Assistants to: Present Workshops on various topics Critique resumes Assume responsibility for special projects Learn the job search process first-hand Applications will be available Monday, March 18, and due back on Friday, April12. If you are planning a Spring term abroad contact our office now. Uni?~l College rr I r ~:.oprncnt ;.._ .. ~~~~· Center IF YOU'RE LOOKING FOR: * GREAT EXPERIENCE * A RESUME BUILDER *A PROFESSIONAL WORK ENVIRONMENT * SOME EXTRA$ WE'RE LOOKING FOR YOU! THE ANNUAL FUND OFFICE IS NOW HIRING DEVELOPMENT INTERNS We need students who are knowledgeable about UNION, have good oral communications skills a positive attitude and a desire to help their school. ' Applications are available at Lamont: House, 3rd floor, The Career Development Center, the Personnel Office or the Information Booth In the College Center. QUESTION$? CALL SUE MALIN ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR OF THE ANNUAL FUtJD Ext6142 ALL APPLICATIONS ARE DUE IN LAMONT HOUSE BY MARCH 22.1991

CONCORDIENSIS, March- 7, 1991 Panel Discusses 1960's Continued from page 1 importantly, it spoke of his looked upon as a good thing. feelings about the period. Professor Sharlet, of the Finally, Professor Benack of Political Science Department, the Psychology Department spoke next. Discussing both, spOke of the allomaly that the the Persian Gulf and Vietnam legacy of the 1960s has proven Wars, he compared .their itself to be, in terms of the military and political aspects. way it is perceived as \the best He explained that, in its .early of all possible worlds\ for :the stages, Vietnam was. a. very adolescent. :She began by popolar war. Furtller, he saying that she is a bit puzzled poi11ted out that the Gulf war , by the responses she gets from only lasted six weeks. Had it . her students when she asks lasted for a long time, he them. to tell her when they argued, the President would believe the best time to be an have witnessed the et:osion of · adolescent was. They seem to national support for thee war say the 1960s more often than effort. Finally, Professor · one might expect. Further, she Shariet concluded witll what finds it interesting that, in the was perhaps the most 1960s, the y<>uth of America persuasive argument of the · began to be seen as the evening. He warned that, intellectuds, the most because the militat:y v,ictory . informed people in American was so easy' America has : society. Not unlike other overcome the Vietnam generations, the young people syndrome. He warned against . around at that time rebelled the coming of a dangerous era against adults which govemed of militarism in American· their society. However. in this foreign policy. particular case, things were Tile focus of the disc:ussion shifted as Professor Hatllaway, professor of English, be..gan to speak. ·In what proved b ·be an extraordinarily mcving presentation, he read an article he wrote for a periodi<:al. It spoke of his. friends going off to die in Vietnam and of getting ·accosted for speaking out against the war, b11t most different. The young really came to be .perceived as the truly knowledgeable. Thus, the term \generation gap\ took on a unique dimension in the 1960s. SPAA would like to thank all of the professors who participated in the discussion with their informative, relevant, and thought provoking presentations. Special Cabaret Night Old Chapel 9:00 PM, Thursday Featuring: Student Forum Spotlight At this week's meeting, the Student Forum tackled several important issues, most of which were financiaL The first order of business was the consideration of several requests by dubs for monetary loans. The Dutch Pipers were awarded a $500 loan to finance the productions of some musical recordings. The Coffee House Club was granted a $765 loan to pay for performers and food for their events. The National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE) was awarded a $1,618 loan which would enable them to pay off their pressing debts. All three of the loans are to be paid back by the end of the year or the money will be subtracted from the clubs' budgets for next year. Finally, the Forum voted to give the Water Polo team $600 for clocks to be used in competition. These monetary bequests are all conditional upon the filing of sixth week reports by the various clubs. The Forum next discussed the fact that there were numerous clubs (over sixty) who had failed to file sixth week reports. These reports are necessary so that the Forum can keep track of the <CI ubs' plans and financial status. Those clubs who had not filed were placed on conditional status by the Finance Committee and were told that their budgets would be frozen if they still hadn't filed a report by Monday. March 4. Also discussed were the various awards that the Forum is responsible for giving out on Awards Day. These awards include the .eight Delphic Honor Awards, the Wendy Bernstein Award and the Calvin Schmidt A ward. Next week, the Forum will be bringing up the nominations for these awards. The nominees' qualifications will then be discussed and the winners will be finalized soon after. The meeting last week was held in the Davidson Lounge in the hopes that non- Forum members would sit in and express their views on certain issues and bring up other topics which they deemed important. Unfortunately, the attendance at the meeting was less than impressive. Everyone is urged to attend future meetings so that they may have influence on the issues discussed by the Student Forum. This is the best way for the Forum to fulfill its role as the main representative body for the students. STUDENT ALERT!!! ANNOUNCING THE STEINMETZ SYMPOSIUM ON STUDENT CREATIVE, SCHOLARLY, AND RESEARCH ACHIEVEMENTS April 12, 1991 from 1:30- 5:30, followed by banquet for faculty and student participants. Dutch Pipers Garnet Minstrals Concert Band Gospel Choir L-------------------------------------------------- I I Symposium will begin at 1:30 with a buffet in the college center followed by an address and plenary session in the College Center Auditorium. Group will then break up into concurrent sessions for talks, papers, readings, posters, performances. All speakers. moderators and interested faculty sponsors will be invited to a banquet at 6:30 following the talks. 1125111 2/25, 91 l/25/91 212Si91 2125/91 212519I 2126/91 2/26191 2/26/91 2126/91 2121191 2/28/91 21281!1 2128/91 3/0l/91 3/01/31 3101191 3101/91 JIW91 3101:91 3/02/91 l/0~191 3/~li9l Mlln 3102191 3102/1[ Reported Security Incidents Students from all classes who have creative, scholarly, or research. projects to present are enthusiastically encouraged to participate. 12:41 A! fDI/DRVIDSDN \EA io:oo All CQllE6E CEK!Ei I2:35 PK ARTS JIUILDIN6 2132 PH IUTTWIELI HALL 7:~6 PH !CIIILIES R!I!J( 8:20 PH FDI mSE S:~O AH ALL lliHl STUDY 9:10 AM cmLr'E amR 12:26 PH FDIIAIUSE 2:45 PH BIOUMI DEPARTIIENT 2:2S PH CIJLLE6E CEHTIR 11:45 IK DAYIIJS!IIf HOUSE 3:43 PH FOX f DAYIDSIN LOT 8:~0 fM liES! ClllESE • LAUIIDRl ROIJII 10:00 AM A.D, PHI LOT 12:00 '\ FOI ~USC 3:12 PI! FOI YOUSE 6:50 Pn IWRT!i ClltLEGE 9:33 PI! liCRTH COlLEGE 11:~6 PH COLLE6E tiNTER • WRUC 4:02 All RAlnEJHD HOUSE 0:06 PH WEST COLLEGE 10:30 PH DAY!IlSON HIJIISE II:ZO PM DAVIIISO[f HOUSE II:~ PK ALUHiill 6YH - ALEIAIITIEJ! FIELD 11:10 Pft llfSI COLLEGE TRESPASSER REPORTEll IN AREA THEFT or DIHI~6 IERVICE SIGNS • RECOVERED THErT OF CAKE!~ !!lEtT or VCR YAHIALISll • CCII(II' 5 OffiCE. SUSPICIOUS PERS11K • &OA FURNITURE VAKIMIZED THEFI Or KA6A11MES !HUT or FROIEN TURKEYS TH£Fl OF PERSONll COJlP1JIER THEFT OF COPY lllCHIHE IIETER IHiFT Or VcR FROK iESIDEHCC OffiCE THEFT OF RADIO I to/IPDIIENTS FROK STUDENTS CAR TRESPASSER ADYISED•OFF CAIIJIUS STUOEitT'SCAR VII'IDALIIED • MINDliN BROKEN STUDEMI HARASSfiiMT REPORTED EON GOINS PROBLEftl SIIOIIE DEIECTOR VANDALIZED STUDENT DISPIIIE IE: PERSONAL PROPERTY HIIN·STUDEHT LE!ll EONDUCT /TReSPASS ARRESTED VAIIliAliSH/Tif!FT 11f COftPACT DISCS, YIHJOY BRDXER-J\tCIIENTAL TRESPASSEIS TllROIIIKiiS THINGS AT BUILDING • JUVEHIW lli'PREHEHDED, NON·RES !DENT HAO A ROOH KEV NOH·SIUOEiT H~D ~nan KEY VEHICLE HOVEl CNIO FJELD • PRA~K SIREAKINS REPORTED We must have the name of the presenter, topic and title of presentation before students leave for Marcil break. The title of a presentation may be submitted by April 2. Please tear off and return to Margaret Schadler, Dean's Office.S-100 -~----------------------------------------------------------- Please fill out if interested in participating in the Steimetz Symposium. I plan to present at the Symposium. Name ---------- Type of Presentation (performance, talk, poster, etc.) __ _ Topic-general (research in Biology, English paper, etc.) Title (if known) ________________ _ Be friendly to your environment. When you're through reading it, recycle this copy of Concordiensis in the Red Bin nearest you. Page 3 Students To Star At Steinmetz Symposium By DANlEL J. KENlRY On F1iday, April 12, Union College will be holding the first Steinmetz Symposium on Student Creative, Scholarly, and Research Achievements for all Uaion students. This event will be conducted like a research symposium and will provide students with an oppor1llnity to present their individual research findings in an academic setting. Students are encouraged to submit individual projects and presertt them at the Sym}>osium. Senior theses, engineering projects, literary readings, science research, seminar papers, or original artwork are all excellent ideas for submissions. Any student of any class year is welcome to participate. To participate in the event, students should ask a faculty member to sponsor them~ and submit their name, the type of project, and the general topic to Dean Margaret Schadler's office, Science and Engi11ecring, S-100. Faculty members are also encouraged to submit students for the S ymp()sium. The deadline to participate in the Steinmetz Symposium is the last day of finals week for winter term, March 22. Stude11ts must then submit the title of their presentation or exhibit to Dean Schadler's office before April 2. Students should approach a faculty member to sponsor them before the end of this term to discuss their presentations and prepare materials. The purpose of the Steinmetz Symposium is to give ex. posure and credit to the academic work that students at Union engage in. Students will be given a unique chance to present creative work before their peers and faculty members. It will also give students experience in public speaking. Because this event is for Union students, classes will be cancelled so that students can partici))ate in the sessions and others can attend them. This is an eJCcellent opportunity for the college community to come together and demonstrate our commitment to learning. President Hull will open the Steinmetz Symposium at 1:30 pm on April 12. The Sym]Josium will then break up for individual talks, readings or performances. Poster displays will be placed in the perfcrming arts studio. Each sessi()n will be grouped by discipline and will have a fac11lty member acting as modeYator. Students will be allotted 20 minutes for each presentation, 15 minutes to speak and 5 minutes for questions. A banquet will be held after the S ymposi urn in Old Chapel. with a speaker to be a11nounced. for students and ·their faculty sponsors. All Union students are enthusiastically encouraged to participate in this event.

. Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, March 7, 1991 ~~ what Ifn up ag1znst ?. .. Please Note: Residence Requirement 1991 Residence Requirement and Lottery Guidelines At it's Fall meeting the Board of Trustees of Union College affirmed. the policy requlrin~ all students to reside In campus housing, provided such housing Is available. For the 1991-92 academic year, all Union Students who have not completed their junior year by the end of the Spring 1'991 academic term (27 credits) will be required to liVe on campus. On campus is defined as Alpha Delta Phi, Chi Psi, Davidson Rouse, Delta Phi, Edwards House, Fox Hollse, Hickok Ho1.1se, Kappa Sigma, McKean House, North College, Phi Delta 'Theta, Potter Soulh, Psi Upsilon; Raymond North,. Richmond House, Sigma Phi, Smith House, South College, Webstar·Housa, West College. The procedures for Implementing thl,; poro::y are deslcnlltl to address 1hEO following: 1 • An equhable system lor distributing housing to retumlng sophomore and juniors and lncomino students. 2. A reasonable number ol opportunities for senior.; to live on campus who wish to do so. 3·. Opportunities .for special Interest housing groups• to Include senior member.; in their houses. 4. Full utilization of all College housing facilities. lmplementatbn pg!lcles and Sc!Jedule 1 _ All special Interest groups must submit their housing rosters (wilh signed conu·acts) to the Office of Residence Ufe by April12, 1991. Ttley- / may Include sophomores, junior.; and/or seniors, and they must meet the minimum occupancy requirements. 2 _ Ali remaining seniors not aligned with a special interest ~roup, who 3- would like 10 live on campus should submit a written request to lhe Office of Residence Ufe by AprU 12, 1991·. The Office of Residence Ufe will conduct a bttery to allocate a limited block of reserved ·rooms ·among these applicants. Based on the number of seniors who will live on campus and estimates of the number.; of Incoming and returning students, The Office of Residence Ute will determine the number of junior.; who can be grented off-campus privileges. All juniors who would Uke to live off-campus should submil a written reque!;t to The OffiCe ol Residence .Ufe by April 15. Off-campus privil~es will be determined by lottery. AT THIS POINT. YOUR ALMA MATER DDESii'T MATTER. 4. l<ey Dates: April 12: All special interest housing groups (including Greeks) must submit residence rosters to The Office of Residence Life. There's one exam even the best of colleges can't prepare you for. Last year alone. America's CoRPORATE DRUG TESTING businesses lost more than $60 billion to drugs. So this year, most of the Fortune 500 will be adminis- tering drug tests. Failing Ute test means you won't be considered for employment. And that's a matter of fact. April 12: April 15: April 24: All seniors requesting on,campus housing (other than special interest group housing) should submit a wriUen request to The Office of Residence Ufe. All juniors requesting off-campus privileges should submit a written request to The Office of Residence Life. Senior housing lottery April 26: Junior off-campus lists published April 30: Sophomore lottery May 1: Junior Lottery 'L1SI or special interest groups: Alpha Della Phi, Cnl Ps1, Cultural Un1ty Cenler, Della Della Della. Delta Gamma, Delta Pn1, Gamma Phi Bela, lolernatlonal House, Kappa Alpha. Kappa Sigma, Ludlow House. Ph1 Della Thela. Pnl Gamma Della, Pill Sigma Kappa, Psi Upsilon, Sigma Chi, Sigma Delia Tau, Sigma Phi, Smllh House, Thela Delta Chi, Zela Beta Tau. IF YOU'RE LOOKING FOR: * GREAT EXPERIENCE • A RESUME BUILDER • A PROFESSIONAL WORK ENVIRONMENT • SOME EXTRA $ WFRE LOOKING FOR YOU! THE ANNUAL FUND OFFICE IS NOW HIRING DEVELOPMENT INTERNS We need students who are knowledgeable about UNION, have good oral communications skills, a positive attitude and a desire to help their school. Applications are available at Lamont House, 3rd floor, The Career Development Center, the Personnel Office or the Information Booth In 1he Collage Center. QUESTIONS? CAUSUEMAUN ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR OF THE ANNUAL FUND Ext.6142 WE'RE PUTnlll DRUGS OUT OF BUSINESS. ALL APPLICATIONS ARE DUE IN LAMONT HOUSE BY MARCH 22, 1991 Partners/rip for a Drug. Fru Am mea Women for Peace actions on International Women's Day ffi!il® rr© rru ® This day commemorates the women's march in New York City for Suffrage and against child labor in 1908. Siena College Albany, State and Eagle Troy- RPI, Rensselaer and Union 12:45- 1:00 12:00- 1:00 12:00- 12:30 Throughout the Capital District, WOMEN will gather to VIGIL for PEACE Please join us at one of the following locations: Schenectady Veteran's Park 12:00- 1:00 Union College, Library Plaza 12:45 - 1:00 AS A WOMAN I HAVE NO COUNTRY. AS A WOMAN MY COUNTRY IS THE WORLD. - Virginia Wolfe For further inf()rmation, call: Schenectat.iy Citizens for Peace Fellowship of Reconciliation in Troy 374-2114 945-1942

CONCORDIENSIS, March 7, 1991 Page S FEATURES L . . I. IVIDg D The By SUZANNE SHAKER Features Editor \You look fabulous.\ \Oh stop, please, no, stop.\ \No honestly you l'ook unbelievable, magnificent, superb, irresistible, better than ever.\ three pound bag of high- cholesterol, 46% more fat barbecue potato chips and a tray of Betty Crocker brownies),. the last hour I spend in bed napping in order to recover from my strenuous afternoon. I try never to stand up straight and always concentrate on slouching when I remember to do so. During the summer I usually spend seven to eight hoW's in the sun and although [ absdlutely never use sunscreen, I do lather my entire body with baby oil. During the winter months I spend two to three hours every other day at Tam's Tanning and Laundry_ Although I haven't been to the beauty parlor for quite some time now I do split my split ends and pick at my dead ends for 45 minutes every night until I fall asleep. from 8:15 to 10:00 p.m. This leaves me about 35 minutes in between classes to run to Ben and Jerry's for a q.uick brownie sundae. My absolute favorite class, Holding Onto the Past and Never Letting Go, meets on Thursdays from 10:30 a.m. to 2:15 p.m. I'm always late, though, because I refuse to ever rise before noon. Professor Obsessed With The Past has taught us how to cling to our past experiences and become so preoccupied with the past that we will be unable to experience life in the present or to look to the future. This cowse has given new meaning to my life. Through The Road to An Unsuccessful Relation- ship I have learned how to destroy a flourishing relationship and how to develop a destructive one. And, finally, I have already become an expert at spending money I don't even have. My Save Less, Spend More class has Nineties taugll t me the tricks of spending money without earni11g a cent. In three weeks I have spent well over eight thousand dollars. Today, I feel so good about myself and am so proud O<f the changes that I have made. I look: forward to the new direction my life is .taking. All I em say is that it is simply a shame I didn't take the initiative earlier. Now I'd just like to take a few minutes to explain what inspired me to write this article. It all started about two weeks ago when I was waiting to meet a late friend in the College Center. My eye caught a bright red pamphlet entitled, \Knowledge Network: Lessons for Living in the '90s.\ A free catalogue of course descriptions offered by Knowledge Network, \a lifelong learning center for people of all ages\ so I oogan flipping through it. Most of the course descriptions struck me as so utterly absurd, simply too ridiculous to be taken seriously that I realized it must be a joke, a spoof on life in the nineties. Well, unfortunately, Knowledge Network is no joke and neither are the hundreds of thousands of other self/life/everything improve- ment courses that have been developed by other \learning centers\ throughout the nation. Today's society has become so caught up in creating the perfect look and lifestyle and has become so dependent on nutritional, financial, exercise, beauty, relationship, etc. experts to guide us through life and lead us through our daily endeavors that we no longer trust ourselves to function as independent individuals without professional advice. Therefore I've decided to share with you some of what Knowledge Network has to offer. Maybe you too can get a new handle on your old life. BEG IN TODAY! \Thank you.\ Well as a matter of fact I have gained 45 lbs. in less than two months on Dr. Obese's \Eat Until You Explode and Roll Yourself Away From the Table Diet\. I've never felt better or more alive than I do today. I've stopped using my 13 zil/pimple/ acne/blemish/aging creams and ointments. I no longer brush. floss and mouthwash seven times a day. I now just brush and go every other week. I've cut down on fresh vegetables, skim milk, low fat and low cholesterol foods and I've increased my chocolate, caffeine~ animal fat (lard) and sugar intake. I now purchase products made only from purely artificial ingredients. I've thrown all my professional.salon, \delicate on the hair\ gels, mousses, shampoos, conditioners, deep conditioners, super dee:p conditioners and hairsprays away. but I must admit that, occasionally, I do dab a little Ivory soap through my hair. I have become moisturizer free, and the dry flakes of dead skin now just fall from my face and body whenever they are good and ready. I've also enrolled in a dozen new courses in order to reorganize and improve my lifestyle. My S tart Smoking With Hypnosis class, \Offers the cpportunity to learn how to destroy your lungs and develop a lifelong destructive habit.\ My time wasting class. Uow to Waste Away Your Life and Enjoy It, which begins next week, sounds absolutely fascinating. The instructor has promised to help us develop the most unproductive, dull, boring life possible. I am also learning how to increase my stress and anxiety level through the power of the mind. This course, Ten Quick and Easy Steps to a More Stressful Life, meets every Wednesday from 6:00 to 7:00 p.m. The Key to Passivity, \understanding the skills and techniques needed to act passive ... to be taken for granted, taken advantage of, to be walked all over, to sacrifice your pride and self respect ... \ also meets on Wednesdays, Courses For a Better You I've eliminated all exercise from my daily routine. My three and one-half hour aerobic workout has been replaced by two solid hours of back to back daytime television viewing, \Days of Our Lives\ and \General Hospital\ followed by a half hour of intensive junkfood consumption (generally one pint of Heath bar Crunch, Rain-forest Crunch and Superfudge Brownie, a A Night Out At The Grocery Store Come join this class as we tour the aisles of a neighborhood grocery store! Learn to understand those complicated food labels and abbreviations so that you can choose your groceries wisely with good tlealth and proper nutrition .in mind. Whether you shop for yourself, your family or friends, be an informed shopper. Buy only what you need and what is good for you. Did you ever think you could have so much fun in a supermarket? Course fee: $25 Sec. A: Tues, Mar. 12, 6-9 p.m. Sec. 8: Tues, Apr. 16, 6·9 p.m. Sec. C: Tues. May 14, 6-9 p.m. How to Manage Conflict, Criticism & Anger Albany_ We all know at least one intolerable boss, back slabber, complainer, delayer, hostile aggressor, know-it-all, relentless advice giver. And sometimes it seems they're everywhere. Difficult people sure know how to ruin your day .... or your business deal ... or your game. Coping with difficult people is possible but it takes some special skills. Instructor Dr. Jules Harris is a , betlavorlal therapist who specializes In ' the psychology of the workplace. In this course he'll cover: maintaining your own self-esteem while dealing with even the toughest difficult person; guarding the other person's ego as well as your own; coping with another's anger without getting angry yourself; spotting the troublemaker before he starts making trouble: knowing when, how, and what to say to the difficult person; learning how to avoid wasting time with those who are irresponsible, insubordinate., or obstinate: when to confront and when to back down. This course Is for anyone wha needs to manage conflict at home or in the workplace. Jules Harris, MSW, EdD, is a developmentallst with a special interest in Gestaltherapy. He has taught at City College and Touro College in New York City, the New Jersey College of Medicine and Dentistry. Siena College, Williams College. Course fee: $85 Sec. V: Sat., May 11 & 18, 9:30· 12:30 p.m. Styling Long Hair Guilderland _ One Night Course. If you've been adoring the sophisticated, chic look of braids .• french braids and •up-dos\ then this class is for you. Learn to achieve \the look\ you want by and say goodbye to expensive appointments at the beauty salon. Master the tricks needed to braid, twist, and securely fasten your long hair plus how to use sprays, gels and mousse to keep it all in place. Do \kiss- curls~ with aluminum foil to get a \p&rmed\look for one evening. Bring a comtJ, brush. coated rubber bands, bobby pins, and your favorite hair ornaments to class. Your hair mt:Jst be shoulder length to attend class. lina Despart and Lisa Barker are full-time NYS-Iicensed comsotologists at Runi Ltd., an image center for hair. skin & body. CoLJrse fee: $25 Sec.Z: Mon, Mar. 11, 6-8:30 p.m. Sec. AA: Mon, Apr. 8, 6-8:30 p.m. Sec. BB: Mon, May 13, 6-8:30 p.m. Sec. CC: Mon, Jun. 17, 6-8:30 p.m. Last classes \til September Live On Less And Save More Albany _ Personal Bud!Jeting in tha '90s. Hae yo11 ever wondered where the money goes? Does it seem you're always broke on payday? Now you can leam all the basic skills you'll need to transform your financial picture. Save more, spend less and be happier with this positive, self-help approach to money management. Once you consciously commit to changin-g how you deal with money, with your instructor's help you'll work out a perS<Jnal budget, learn about cash flow, the difference between disposable and discretionary income and management of credit cards and their influence on cash•How. There will be plenty of time to ask questions. Remember, \A penny saved is a penny earned.\ Betty Bergan, trained as a financial services person, is a registered representative with Waddell & Reed, Inc .• Financial Services Corp. A teacher for \1Z years, she's given a number of workshops on money management for the ·90s. .Ca.ursa fee: $25 Sec. A: Tues, Apr. 9, 7-9 p.m. Sec. B: Tues, May 7, 7-9 p.m. Se<:. C: Tues, Jun. 4, 7-9p.m. An Adventure In Cooking On A Budg11t Vlith everyone on a budge-t today, stretching your food dollar is a priority. You can learn to prepare nutritious, low- cost meals oy substituting foods for high- priced cuts of meat or learn to stretch meals and freeze large batches. Immerse yourself in a su;rprising discovery of new main dishes, soups, desserts- and save money! Course tee: $22 Sec. A: Tues. Mar. 26, 6:30·8:30 p.m. Sec. B: Tues, Apr. 23, 6:30·8:30 p.m. Sec. C: Tues. May 28, 6:30·8:30 p.m. Sit On It & Feel Good! Albany - Today at least 50 million Am&ricans sit as they work, are you one ol them? And do you .feel aches and p11ins because of this? Now you can learn how to ~improve your reLationship with your seat\ whether yo11're £tuck at a desk or In a car. Learn stretches, r&laxatlon techniques and eKercises that can all be done while you are at work, without losing your professional composure. Your individual problems will be addressed and furniture changes as well as postures will be suggested. The instructor will have a related text available for optional purchase costing $6.51. Dr. Ken Flablnoff-Goldman has been in private practice as a chiropractor for over 10 years. He is president of the NYS Chiropractic Association and has numerous other professional affiliations. Course fee: $27 Sec. A: Tues. Mar. 5, 7·9 p.m. Sec. B: Tues. Apr. 2, 7-9 p.m. Sec. C: Tues. May 7, 7'9 p.m. Letting Go And Moving On Schenectady _ One night course. The rocky road of life often consists of a series of endings and beginings. Endings, difficult to leave behind, beginnings, scary to start. A personal crisis, or the cleath of a loved one can move you into a state of emotional stagnation-- making it tough for you to let go and move on. This one night dass offers guidelines for dealing with the past and putting it behind you-· so you can move on to the rest ot your life. Join this supportive group of others just like you to liberate yourself and find the multitude of happiness and excitement your future holds! Stev!' Abrahamsen, MS, see bio course #500. Course fee: $27 Sec. 0: Sat., May 4, 9 a.m.-noon Spring Clutter Cleaning Guilderland - Now is a great time to deal with the material possessions ws don't need, want or use. If you hear yourself saying, \I don't have enough time or energy• or \I don't know where to begin\ start your cleaning out by throwing away your excuses and digging in. Not only will we focus on the thoughts, emotions and excuses that keep us stuck in our clutter, but we'll learn to live more simply. You'll receive practical tips on getting started, continuing and finishing clutter cleaning projects so that you can improve the environment. You'll even learn how to have a garage sale, Aoundance begins by having what you really value in your life. A self-assessment will be administered. Helen Volk, Esq. has taught kindergarten to graduate students with a specialty in management and organizational skills. She's taught clutter workshops for five years 1n the Capital District and Massachusetts. Courso teo: $27 Sec. A: Thurs. May 21. 6:30-9:30 p.m. Sec. 8: Thurs, Apr. 11, 6:30-9:3() p.m. Sec. C: Thurs. May 2; 6:30-9:30 p.m.

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, March '1, 1~91 FEATURES Inspire Rationale By CARL R. FRIEDRICH, Jr. We've come upon that \special\ time in the term. The time when you are innocently riding the death-cycle in the nautilus room, and the girl who hasn't acknowledged your existence for over three years comes over to your heaving yet sweaty body and says, \Hi what's up?\ You smile because if you speak you're afraid she'll find out that you forgot to brush your teeth this morning. \So start studying for the test yet?\ she says. You shake your head no, \Can I borrow your notes?\ You know that if it weren't for the fact that she sat a few rows behind you when she took it upon herself to come to class, she would be making fun of you to her impatient friend waiting in the doorway. But you let her have the notes anyway. We've come to the time of the term when you listen in the library (where you seem to walk around like a lost sheep) for a more heinous story than your own. You do this so you can say to yourself, \Well if Igor has all of that to do, and I only have this much, I can put off studying for at least another day. The door doesn't hit you on the way out. This is the time when students' allegiance to each other is at its highest and lowest. \You can do it. brother\ comes out of one mouth whose mind is thinking, \Ha ha, he's a deadman.\ We hope our friends' academic crash-and-bums make our own look more like a crash-landing. \Gee Peter, how'd you do?\ \A C-plus,\ he says, making your own B-minus look startlingly like a B. \Gee Steve, that's not too bad.\ {Sucker!) What makes the end-of-term stress even more, shall we say, TAKE .DRUBS AND LOSE ALL YOUR FRIENDS. If you think drugs cost a lot now, wait until after college. They could cost you a career. Last year alone, America's businesses lost more than $60 billion to drugs. So this year, most of the Fortune 500 will be administering drug tests. Failing the test means you won't be considered for employment. And that's one hell of a price to pay. WE'RE PUTTIIIG DRUGS OUT OF BUSIIIESS. Partnership for a Drug- Free America · English Dept. Writing Prizes The Department of English welcomes submissions for their annual .writing ~ntests. Prizes for the four contests range from $100 to $1,000, and will be announced at Pnze Day 1n May. . Two of the contests are intended for creative writers, an<1' a~e open to all ~tudent~: t~e Yud1s Prize, for the best work of fiction, and the Academy .of Amenca~ Poets Pnze, wh1ch mcludes recognition by the nationally known Academy of Amencan Poets, for the best poem or group of poems. 11 • t· r ·r The Van The remaining two contests are intended to reward exce ence 1n non- JC 1on wn mg. · .. Orden Prize is for \the freshman student who excels in English composition.\ The Allen Essay Pnze is awarded to the senior who submits the best essay. The pieces considered for these contests may be wri.tten as part of ~ stude~t·~ cOlu;:;e work, or they may be the produce of .independent efforts. Pnzes are sometimes d1v1ded, m order to recognize several works of quality. . b The deadline for the submission of entries will be Wednesday, March 13. All entnes m~st e submitted to the department office with a pseudonym, accompanied by a sealed envelope w.1th the pseudonym on the outside and the writer's real name inside, and must be clearly labelled. w1th the name of the appropriate contest. For more information, plese contact professor Jordan Sm1th. stressf11l, is the foreknowledge of your limitations. You stare at your Chern book, and every equation you perform comes out to be a postively charged ion of Carbon (C+ ). And when you :proof-read that one-draft- wonder of a paper, the letter grade drops half a tick with every page you read. Somewhere on your desk, tltough is the beacon. Whether it be a plane ticket to St. Somewhere, or a bus ticket home, it provides the magical element which up until eighth week only alcohol could provide. More effective than a black .coffee laced with No- Doz. that little friend is what will get that paper under Professor Hack-Saw's door by the deadline. The burden which is lifted at that golden moment still seems light years away, but knowing it's there keeps us typing away. Affirmative Action Committee Ruth Stevenson of the English Department has been elected chair of the Mfirmative Action Committee. The Affirmative Action Committee was appointed by the President in accordance with the \Policy and Plan for Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action\ concerning employment at Union College which was drafted last year and approved by the President, the Dean of the Faculty, and the Board of Trustees. Duties of the Committee include assisting the Affirmative Action Officer by providing advice and reaching out to the college community to help explain the College's goals. The Committee also advises and reports to the President. Other members of the committee are Roger Carter of A.O.P., Judy George of Arts, Tom Heisinger of Physical Plant, Chris Laursen of Political Science, Seyfollah Maleki of Physics, and Kathy Quinn of Lamont House. Ex officio members are Terry Weinger, Associate Dean of the Faculty; George Richards, Director of Perrsonnel; and Diane Winkler, Affirmative Action Officer. Members of the college community with any questions about the College's affirmative action plan are encouraged to contact any member of the committee. · Copies of the \Policy and Plan\ are available at department offices, the library, the personnel office, and from the Mfurnative Action Officer. Regional Directors - Ambassador Program The Admissions Office wishes to congratulate the following students who have been selected as new National and Regional Directors of the Ambassador Program. New National Directors: Robin Bidsttup '92 Rika Poor '92 ·New Regional Directors: New England Prep Schools - Shields Day '93 Massachusetts - Joe Pecora '93 Connecticut/Rhode Island - Rebecca Stein '93 Northern New England - Ramsey Baker '93 Midwest- Peter Lee '93 & Laura Thatacher '93 Long Island- ()reg Barrett '92 Western and Northern New York- Aaron Hoffman '94 Small Schools Visitation - Deanna Lang '92 ·:-~

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, March 7, 1991 FEATURES Inspire - Rationale By CARL R. FRIEDRICH, Jr. We've come upon that \special\ time in the term. The time when you arc innocently riding the death-cycle in the nautilus room, and the girl who hasn't acknowledged your existence for over three years C()mcs over to your heaving yet sweaty body and says, \Hi what's up?\ You smile because if you speak you're afraid she'll find Olll that you forgot to brush y<>ur teeth this morning. \So start studying for the test yet?\ she says. You shake your head n<>, \Can I borrow your notes?\ You know that if it wet:en't for the fact that she sat a few rows behind you when she took it upon herself to come to class, she would be making fun of you to her impatient friend waiting in the doorway. But you let her have the notes anyway. We've come to the tirne of the term when you listen in the library (where you seem to walk around like a lost sheep) for a more heinous story than your own. You do this so you can say to yourself, \Well if Igor has all of that to do, and I only have this much, I can put off studying for at least another day. The door doesn't hit you on the way out This is the time when students' allegiance to each other is at its highest and lowest. \You can do it, brother\ comes out of one mouth whose mind is thinking, \Ha ha, he's a deadman.\ We hope our friends' academic crash-and-bums make our own look more like a crash-landing. \Gee Peter, how'd you do?\ \A C-plus,\ he says, making your own B-minus look startlingly like a B. \Gee Steve, that's not too bad.\ (Sucker!) What makes the end-of-term stress even more, shall we say, TAKE DRUGS AND LOSE ALL YOUR FRIENDS. If you think drugs cost a lot now, wait until after college. They could cost you a career. Last year alone, America's businesses lost more than $60 billion to drugs. So this year, most of the Fortune 500 will be administering drug tests. Failing the test means you won't be considered for employment. And that's one hell of a price to pay. WE'RE PUTTIIIG DRUGS OUT OF BUSINESS. Parlnership for a Drug· Free America English Deptm Writing Prizes The Department of English welcomes submissions for their annual.writing c::ontests. Prizes for the four contests range from $100 to $1,000, and will be announced at Pnze Day m May· . Two of the contests are intended for creative writers, and are open to all ?tudent~: t~e Yud1s Prize for the best work of fiction, and the Academy of American Poets Pnze, wh1ch rncludes recognition by the nationally known Academy of American Poets, for the best poem or group of poems. 11 · f' f ·r The Van The remaining two contests are intended to reward exce ence 1n non- 1c 1on wn mg. . Orden Prize is for \the freshman student who excels in English composition.\ The Allen Essay Pnze is awarded to the senior who submits the best essay. The pieces considered for these contests may be wri~ten as part of~ stude~t·~ cou~se work, or they may be the produce of independent efforts. Pnzes are somet1mes d1v1ded, m order to recognize several works of quality. . . . The deadl 1 ne for the submission of entnes will be Wednesday, March 13. All entnes m~st be submitted to the department office with a pseudonym, accompamed by a sealed envelope With the pseudonym on the outs 1 de and the writer's real name 1ns1de, and must be clearly labelled w1th the r: a me of the appropnate contest. For more information, plese contact professor Jordan Sm1th. _____ a._.,_, - '- at J'!.'[TctV?2 UU -¥ h , >II!QW WiiWQ- stressful, is the foreknowledge of yow limitations. You stare at your Chern book, and every equation you perform comes out to be a postively charged ion of Carbon (C+ ). And when you proof·read that one-draft- wonder of a paper, the letter grade drops half a tick with every page you read. Somewhere on your desk, tftough is the beacon. Whether it be a plane ticket to St. Somewhere, or a bus ticket home, it provides the magical elem.ent which up until eighth week only alcohol could provide. More effective than a black coffee laced with No- Doz, that little friend is what will get that paper under Professor Hack-Saw's door by the deadline. The burden which is lifted at that golden moment still seems light years away, but knowing it's there keeps us typing away. Affirmative Action Committee Ruth Stevenson of the English Department has been elected chair of the Mfinnative Action Committee. The Affirmative Action Committee was appointed by the President in accordance with the \Policy and Plan fCtr Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action\ concerning employment at Union College which was drafted last year and approved by the President, the Dean of the Faculty, and the Board of Trustees. Duties of the Committee include assisting the Affirmative Action Officer by providing advice and reaching out to the college community to help explain the College's goals. The Committee also advises and reports to the President. Other members of the committee are Roger Carter of A.O.P., Judy George of Arts, Tom Heisinger of Physical Plant, Chris Laursen of Political Science, Seyfollah Maleki of Physics, and Kathy Quinn of Lamont House. Ex officio members are Terry Weinger, Associate Dean of the Faculty; George Richards, Director of Perrsonnel; and Diane Winkler, Affirmative Action Officer. Members of the college community with any questions about the College's affirmative action plan are encouraged to contact any member of the committee. Copies of the \Policy and Plan\ are available at department offices, the library, the personnel office, and from the Affirmative Action Officer. Regional Director.'\ - Ambassador Program The Admissions Office wishes to congratulate the following students who have been selected as new National and Regional Directors of the Ambassador Program. New National Directors: Robin Bidstrup '92 Ri.ka Poor '92 New Regional Directors: New England Prep Schools - Shields Day '93 Massachusetts- Joe Pecora '93 Connecticut/Rhode Island- Rebecca Stein '93 Northern New England - Ramsey Baker '93 Midwest - Peter Lee '93 & Laura Thatacher '93 Long Island - Greg Banett '92 Western and Northern New York- Aaron Hoffman '94 Small Schools Visitation- Deanna Lang '92 I·

lilfMMEB JOBS AND INTERNSHIPS The PO)Yerbouse Theater·at Yasm- Thls.award-winning program offers exceptional oppommitics to 'bolh Pl9fesstonal&and studcols. Positions Include actors, directors, designers, administrators, and·.playwn'ghts. ~bTl. Co11~&e of Oce_anograp~y--O;egim State Unjyersitt-:This 9-week program involves bands CJD l'CSCal'l:b in phys1cal, cltemical, II!' biological oceanography, ~e geology or geophysics. It provides students with the opponunity to assess their aptitude for an inrerest iu:!lsearch. l:!!:ru!liM~h 13. CONCQRDIENSIS, March 7, 1991 You are Invited to Join tb.e ~®~lln A.liiiliiillW!f!Il\~~ll\y <CtellteliDirmt ~ll®IID ®fr <C <ID<.e<dlll!l <!'!~ ~il mllm an~ 1U rmii ® lDl April26 and 27 Page 7 New York Ho:;pital=£omeJ!Medjca! Center Westcbester Pivi:;ion-This .. 8·wee!> program is open to college students interested in careers in social WCJr)C. psychiatry, medicine, recreational therapy, nill'Sing and psycltCJ!ogy. The practicum, now in its 20th year •. gives stlldeots an opportunity to explore the many disciplines of a univerSity-based psychiatric hospi!al. Friday evening 4-6pm Reception for Senior Honors Thesis Exhibit of paintings and photography by Marie GuarinieUo'91 and S!JMMER JOBS A~pn Juniors in Ec!lnorojcs--lnt=sled in a summer job in Rochestei? Allstate is looking for a EiDllw:iill ~in their Con!mller's office. Send your resume and cover Jener as soon as p(,ssible to : Frank J .. Lucas Human Rcsoun:es SeoiOr RCjl!Csentativc Allstatt; Insurance Company 300 Willowbrook Office Park Fairport, NY 14450 paripn Lake. Park-Darien Lake is a ihcme park and camping rcson located in Darien Center, New Yorli.(near. Rochester and Buffalo). The park is offering full-time, pan-time, or weekend jobs which include food service, tom:ism, and customer service. Dafien Lake Park offers a Student Loan Benefit to those \'!orkers who complete one season of work lhcxe. Sfildent HosteJjng Prn~:Xam-The Stu<jent Hosteling J'mgram In Conway MA is a tolllism company offering cycling expeditions to teenagers. They an looking far Assistant Lc2dcrs who are willing to travel and'take responsibility for. groups of teenagers. Cycling sldlls are encouraged but not tequin:d. REBar Ran2b · The HF Bar Ranch is the second oldest dude ranch still in operation today; It is located in the beautiful Bighoch National Forest in Saddlcsaing, Wyoming. The jobs available vazy from groundskcepers to waitresses. Applicants must be· able to work until September 1. SPBTNG TERM INTERNSHIPS The following internships m available at the Technology Resources for Education (TRE) Center atl979 Central Avenue Albany, for students willing to work between 5-10 hours a week: Putiljc Relations- To. assist with coordinating and implementing of selected public relations activitieS for radio, television, print, and/or telecommunications media. jAmpnter ~cience-For those with particular int~ ~ ~!mica! suppon m sales poSitions. To assist with unplemcnnng. selected comJ;mter technology aetmtles ·of the Center in the areas of 11ser support programming, telecommunications, tmining, and rlatabase management ' •For more infonnation, see the Internship Ustings and Summer Job Listings in t11e CDC library. Pray for·tlie safe return of a{{ tfiose- in tlie Persian (julf You asl(ed for 6~8pm 8:00pm 9:30pm Saturday !0:30am !1:00am i2noon 1:30pm 2:00pm 3:00pm 3:30pm 7:00pm 9:00pm a computer that~ real college material. We heard you. Amy Benusis '91. Arts Atrium. Opening Reception for paintings by Sally Eckhoff '77. College Center Atrium and Strauss Gallery. Welcome by President Roger Hull and Chairman of the Board of Trustees Norton Reamer. Introduction by Barbara Burek '75, Trustee and President of the Alumni Council. Coeducation at Formerly Single Sex Institutions: The Impact and the Challenge. Keynote address by Paula Brownlee, former Dean of the Faculty at Union, now President of the Association of American Colleges. College Center Auditorium. Coffee House featuring Marcy Shapiro '73, jazz pianist. CGllege Center 302. Continental Breakfast Coeducation at Unic>n: Where Are We Now and Where Are We Going? A brief introouctien by Kathy Mullaney '74, Trustee, followed by student panelists reporting on current issues in: •Housing at Union- Do Women and Men Have Equal OpportUnities? •Women and Men on the Playing Field ·Social Life at Union •The Coeducational Classroom Climate: Chilly or Challenging? •Inclusion and Diversity: Women of Color at Union Lunch will include recognition of our ear.liest alumnae and the contributions of alumnae to the College. Music by the Garnet Minstrelles and Dutch Pipers. Celebrating Union Women in the Workplace. Kate White '72, alumna and Editor-in-Chief of Working Woman magazine, will speak on \Women in the Workplace.\ College Center Auditorium. Alumnae Panels will be held in various tooms of the College Center. Alumnae will be discussirig life after Union in their field of endeavor. Open to all students, faculty and staff. •Women in Science and Medicine •Women in Business •Women in Arts & Communication •Women in Engineering •Women in Law & Government •Women in Education •Balancing Our Lives: Can Women Have It All? •Returning to School: Challenges and Possibilities Open House at the Women's Center. Nonh College. Outdoor Concert Ododo, a play celebrating women of color, directed by Marina Bernard '92. CC Auditorium. Cabaret presents Helena Binder Bress '76. College Center 302. For your enjoyment all day: •College Center Exhibit of Alumnae: \The W:>y We Are\ •Exhibition of Paintings by Sally Eckhoff '77, Strauss Gallery, CC305 •Self Portraits by Union Women, 2nd Floor Photography Gallery, Arts Building •Painting and Photography by Amy Benusis '91 and Maria Guarinello '91, Arts Atrium Jll?(!:lfJ<llllll(!: llmwa~<il. UNION COLLEGE BOOKSTORE COLLEGE CENTER HOURS MONDAY-FRIDAY 8:45 · 4:30 SATURDAYS 11:00-3:00 TELEPHONE 518 370-6188 FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMA T10N CONTACT MR. CHARLES BOSWORTH The ideal computer for college needs certain things. Like a mouse, to make it easy to use. Preloaded software, that'lllet you create impressive papers with graphics and spreadsheets. And great· tools, like a notepad, calendar and cardfile.lt should also be expandable, so it can grow with your needs. a special student price and affordable loan pay- ments. And on a different note, }'OU can get a great low price on the Roland\ Desktop Music System that transforms your IBM PS/2\ with Micro Channel\' into an exciting, oomprehensive music maker. The IBM Personal System/2\ has all this at The PS/2 is perfect for college because you told us just 'What you :ileed.ed. And no one knows what it takes to be real college material better than you. ==-=,:. = =-= =-= = :-:. =-== ---·- ---·- 'Thos offer is awolable only to qu~hfied college students, faculty and st;1ft that purt;hase 16M Selected AcademiC Sclutions t!vough par11Copatong campus outlets. IBM 1 800 222·7257 or IBMAuthon;recl PC Dealers certofoed to remarket lBMSflleded AcademiC Sclutions. Orders are subject to availablUtv. Pnces am subJect to change and IBM may wothdraw the otter at any tome Without wntten notiCe. ISM. Personal System/2. PS/2 and Mao Channel are rwg~Siemd trademarkS of lillemaliclnal BusineSs Mnchones Corporation. ®ROland os a regostered trademark of Roland CorporatiOn, US. «> liM CorporaliOn 1991

SJ!MMEB JOBS AND INTERNSHIPS INTERNSHIPS The Ppwerbouse Theater at Yasur-This award-winning program offers exceptional opponunities to both professionals and students. Positions include actors, directors, designers, adnJinistrators, and playwrights. J:lwllilm-Maicb 1:1. Colle&e of Oceanography--Oregon State University-This 9-week program invclves hands on research in physical, chemical, or biological oceanography, marine geology or geophysics. It provides students with the opponunity to assess their aptitude for an intereSt in research. ~-March 13. CONCORDIENSlS, March 7, 1991 You are llnvited to ]'oin 0.-e ~®~Iln AIIIlllllllW<eiT'~$lll\f CCtefi~!hJII'IDUDl!lll ®J cc <ID te cdlllil (t$1 ~ n {[]) !Til g[l ~ 1lJ !Dln {[])liD April 2 6 and 27 Page 7 New York Ho:;pita!-Comell Medical Center Westcbester Divisjgn- This 8-week program is open to college students interesttd in careers in social work, psychiaay, medicine, recreaticnal therapy, nursing and psychology. The practicum, now in its 20th year, gives students an opportunity to explore the many disciplines of a university-based psychiatiic hospital. Friday evening 4-6pm Reception for Senior Honors Thesis Exhibit of paintings and ph()tography by Marie Guariniello'91 md SliMMER JQBS Attention Juniro in El:onomics-Interested in a summer job in Rochester? Allstate is looking for a .Einlr.IJ!;ial Anilh.stin their Controller's office. Send your resume and.cover letter as SOOf1 as possible to' FrankJ.Lucas Hwnan Resowces Senior Representative Allstate Insurance Company 300 Willowbrook Office Park Fairport, NY 14450 Darien Lake Park-Darien Lake is a theme park and camping reson located in Darien Center, New Yorlr.(near Rochester and Buffalo). The parlr. is offering full-time, pan-ti!lle, or weekend jobs which include food service, tourism, and customer service. Darien Lake Park offers a Student Loan Benefit to those workers who complete one season of wcrk there. Student Hgstelin~; Pmgram The Student Hosteling Program in Conway, MA is a tourism company offering cycling ~>:~lions to teenagers. They are l?Okin!l for Assistant Leaders who an: willing to ttavel and take responSibility for groups of teenagers. Cycling skills are encouraged but not required. HE Bar Rauch 1'he HF Bar Ranch is the second oldest dude ranch Still in operation today. It is located in the beautiful Bighoch National Forest in Saddlestring, Wyoming. The jobs available vary from groundskeepers to waitresses. Applicants must be able to work until September 1. SPRING TERM IN!'ERNSH!PS The following internships are available at the Technology Resources for Education (l'RE) Center at 1979 Central Avenue Albany, for students willing to work between 5-10 hours a week: Pub1ic Relations To .assist with coordinating and implementing of selected public relations activities for radio, television, print, and/or telecommunications media Computer Science-For those with particular interest in technical support or sales positions. To dssi~ with implementing selected computer ·technology activities of the Center in the areas of user support programming, telecommunications, training, and database management ' •For more information, see the Internship Ustings and Summer Job Listings in the CDC library. Pray for tlie safe return of a[[ tliose in tlie Persian (iulf You asl(ed for 6-8pm 8:00pm 9:30pm Saturday 10:30am ll:OOam 12noon 1:30pm 2:00pm 3:00pm 3:30pm 7:00pm 9:00pm a computer that's real college material. We heard you. Amy Benusis '91. Arts Atrium. Opening Reception for paintings by Sally Eckhoff '77. College Center Atrium and Strauss Gallery Welcome by President Roger Hull and Chairman of the Board O>f!rustees Norton Reamer. Introduction by Barbara Burek '75, Trustee and President of the Alumni Council. Coeducat-ion at Formerly Single Sex Institutions: The Irnpad and the Challenge. Keynote address by Paula Brownlee, former Dean of the Faculty at Union, now President of the Association of American Colleges. College Center Auditorium. Coffee House featuring Marcy Shapiro '73, jazz pianist. College Center 302. Continental Breakfast Coeducation at Union: Wltere Are We Now and Where Are We Going? A brief introduction by Katlty Mullaney '74, Trustee, followed by student panelists reporting on current issues in: •Housing at Union. Do Women and Men Have Equal OpportUrlities\ •Women and Men on the Playing Field •Social Life at Union •The Coeducational Oassroom Oimate: Chilly or Challengul!g:\ •Inclusion and Diversity: Women of Color at Union Lunch will include recognition .of our earliest altJmnae and the contributions of alumn:Je to the College. Music by the Garnet Minstrelles and Dutch Pipers. Celebrating Union Women in the Workplace. Kate White '72, alumna and Editor-in-Chief of Working Wo11Uln magazine, will speak on \Women in the Workplace.\ College Center Auditorium. Alumnae Panels will be held in various rooms of the College Cc::nter. Alumnae will be d1scussm,; i:fe after Union in their field of endeavor. Open to all students, faculty and staff. ·Women in Science and Medicine •Women in Business •Women in Arts & Communication •Women in Engineering •Women in Law & Government •Women in Education •Balancing Our Lives: Can Women Have It All? •Returning to School: Challenges and Possibilities Open House at the Women's Center. North College. Outdoor Concert Ododo, a play celebrating women of color, directed by \tuinJ BemJ.l'd '92. C'C A udi:,,:::.:::-: Cabaret presents Helena Binder Bress '76. College Center 30~- For your enjoyment all day: •College Center Exhibit of Alumnae: \Thew y We Are\ ·Exhibition of Paintings by Sally Eckhoff '77, Strauss G:tllery, CCJ05 ·Self Portraits by Union Women, Znd Floor Photography Gallery, Arts Building •Painting and Photography by Amy Benusis '91 and \laria Guminello '91, Arts \trium IE'J~I!'J<nllll~ Il::I!11'~11H1 UNION COLLEGE BOOKSTORE COLLEGE CENTER HOURS MONDAY-FRIDAY 8:45-4:30 SATURDAYS 11:00- 3:00 TELEPHONE 51 R 370-6188 FOR ADDIT\IO~AL INFOR~1A TIO:--.: CONTACT MR. CHARLES BOSWORTH The ideal computer for college needs certain things. Like a mouse, to make it easy to use. Preloaded software, that'll let you create impressive papers with graphics and spreadsheets. And great tools, like a notepad, calendar and cardfile. It should also he expandable, so it can grow with. your needs. a special student price and afiordable loan pay- ments. And on a different note, you can get a great low price on the Roland\' Desktop Music System that transforms your IBM PS/2., with Micro Channel\' into an exciting, comprehensive music maker. The IBM Personal SystemJ2• has all this at The PS/2 is perfect for college because you told us just what you needed. And no one knows what it takes to be real college material better than you. 'Th1s offer 15 available only to quahf1ed college students. faculty and staH that purcllase IBM Selecte<l Acaoem>c Sol~t•ons through partiCipating campus outlets.. IBM 1 800 222 72 57 or IBM Aulhon:rod PC Dealers cer11hsd to remarket IBM Selected AcaoemiC Sotut>Ons Oltlers are sull]fd 10 ava~ab1bty PriCeS are subject to change and IBM may Withdraw the ot1er at any t1me Without wr&ttan notiCe IBM. Persooal System/2, PS/2 and Micro Channel are l'llg!Sterod tradBmatlls ollntMnalloolll BusineSs Machlrles Corporation ®Rola.11d IS a rag1steted trademark o1 R<lland Corporalton. US ~ 18M Corpora!100 1991

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS,. March 7, 1991 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES EYE ON THE WORL·D By ED MENKE Will Minnie Mouse Be Abroad? Picture this: Super Bowl XXVIII, between the Giants (the dynasty franchise of the nineties) and the Steelers, is held in some sunny Southern state. At the end of the 45-6 trouncing by the Giants, the field floods with reporters and cameramen and fans, most of whom are crowded around Giant quarterback Jeff Hostetler, who has just been named MVP for the third Super Bowl in a row, an unprecedented feat Someone in the crowd yells out, \Hey Jeff, you've just been named Super Bowl MVP for the third year in a row. Now, what are you going to do?\ Hostetler looks directly into the closest video camera and proclaims, \I'M GOING TO EURO DISNEY!!\ For this plug, he receives probably several tens of thousands of dollars, and of course, free admission for the 1943-hectare wonderland just 32 kilometers outside of Paris. All of Euro Disney will cover an area approximately one fifth the size of Paris, with 6 hotels (5200 rooms in all), a \championship\ 18-hole golf course, .the Davy Crockett Campground, and, of course, the Magic Kingdom Theme Park, with five \themed lands.\ MAIN STREET -USA represents a tum-of-the-century American town. FRONTIERLAND shows what the Old West was like. ADVENTURELAND features scenes from \Treasure Island\ and \Peter Pan.\ FANTASYLAND is based on \Pinocchio\ and \Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs.\ DISCOVERYLAND shows mankind's achievements-past, present, and future. Before you put down this Concordiensis to call your travel agent, let me finish. You see, there is a big problem with the whole idea of a Euro Disney. First, just think of how many people are within a close enough vicinity to visit Euro Disney regularly, or even semi-regularly. A lot. In fact, people over at Disney are estimating that 330 million (yes, million) Europeans will be pouring in during the first year after its doors open in the spring of 1992. That means a lot of money changing hands, in admission fees, novelty sales, hote1 expenses, etc. So much money is expected to be coming in that the French government gave Disney a huge, much-needed loan in order for them to continue construction on the immense project. Why would the socialist French put so much money into such a private-sector endeavor? Just think of the potential for a tremendous return on their money. 1943 hectares calls for a lot of employees, who, according to a Euro Disney advertisement in The New York Times, \ ... must speak English and French fluently and have the necessary documents authorizing employment in France.\ This means that many more jobs will appear in the French job market, keeping unemployment low. In addition, all the commotion will help the entire area immediately South of Paris flourish for quite some time. The commotion is, actually, the center of the controversy which slliTounds the Euro Disney project. You see, when you have people living ncar where this theme park is about to emerge, they get angry when their needs and wants Oiving in a nice, qtlict, rural area of the middle of France) arc being overlooked. In fact, last fa11, when the Euro Disney executives had some official ceremony for the resort, local French men and women threw tomatoes and eggs and the like at the American swine entrepreneurs who were pillaging their region without asking. A pretty valid argument, although the benefits· for the country as a whole far exceed the problems that Euro Disney causes for several. Will the Giants really become the dynasty of the nineties? If their offensive line stays healthy, then maybe. What I know for sure is, when the gates open in 1992, everyone at Disney (and anyone with Disney stock, for that matter) will be crossing their fingers, hoping that Euro Disney will be puffmg \I think I can, I think I can/' all the way to the bank. · Author's note: For those of you who would like to try your luck in Disney's job market, send your resume to Walt Disney World Co., Professional Staffing, Dept. KAK101, P.O. Box 10090, Lake Buena Vista, FL, 32830. OR, quoting reference E.T./Ol{NYT to Professional Staffing, Euro Disneyland S.C.A., B.P. 110, 94350 Villiers-Sur-Mame, FRANCE. For additional information, contact the author through Box #1843. Removing the Politically Correct Blinders By LYNNE V. CHENEY So much of what has happened in the world during the past few years has demonstrated the long-term wisdom of being what is called \politically incorrect.\ One of the tenets of that position, I think most people would agree, is an affirmation of the importance of Western civilization. Now, of course, the history of the West is not a narrative of unbroken progress. We have monumental failures to our credit; and indeed, bringing those failures to light, holding them up and looking at them this way and that, is one of our finest traditions. The West is not perfect, but we do have on our record some glorious accomplishments. In 1989, before Tiananarnen Square, Fang Lizhi, scientist and dissident, spoke of the aims of China's democracy movement. \What we are calling for is extremely basic,\ he said, \namely freedom of speech, press, assembly and travel. Concepts of human rights and democracy,\ he went on, \although the founding principles of the U.S. government, should not be viewed as something exclusiv.ely, Western. Actually, they are a legacy to the world.\ Our grandchildren will ask us about the Soviet Union, and who can say how the story we tell them will end? I was in the \Our grandchildren will ask us about the Soviet Union, and who can say how the story we tell them will end?\ Soviet Union three months ago, and it was a place amazingly changed from the last time I had been there, seven years before. St. Basil's, the onion-domed cathedral on Red Square, has been consecrated. Danilov Monastery. in ruins when I visited before, has been restored. Masses were being held there every Sunday-- and Saturdays as well. Perhaps the most reticent scholarly group with which I met, at least initially, were historians at the Military History Institute in Moscow. You have to understand that I bring a little baggage with me to a meeting like that. No one is unaware of my spouse's occupation. So there was some. reticence. And when the subject of depoliticizing the study of history came up, the first statement was very cautious. \We can never completely remove politics from the study of history,\ one colonel said, \because we cannot remove ourselves from politics.\ \True enough,\ I agreed, \but shouldn't we try to minimize the effect of politics on our scholarship?\ There were careful nods around the table. \If we don't work to minimjze it,\ I asked. \don't we become horses wearing blinders?'' ' This was not a particularly imaginative metaphor, but it had astonishing cross-cultural resonance. It changed the oone of the meeting. Hardly was it translated when it elicited the most positive response, not just careful nods, but enthusiastic stories a·bout projects it was now possible to work on that it hadn't been possible to pursue before. One colonel-- one scholar, I should say-- was working on the question of how many people were killed in the Bolshevik Revolution-- hardly a politically correct problem to pursue. Another scholar, the head of the Institute, is writing a biography of Trotsky and using Trotksy's papers to do so-- a project that would have been unheard of a few years ago. There is no neat conclusion to this story, no nice happy ending. In fact, one has to wonder~ to worry about the course of events in the Soviet Union. How long can the effort to deideologize scholarship continue when President Gorbachev is seeking to limit freedom of the press? Still, what I observed in the Soviet Union does prompt some important questions. Shouldn't the go::)). of scholars everywhere be to make art and inquiry as free as possible of political bias and influence? Of course ' ' we are political creatures, but understanding that, shouldn't we try to raise ourselves up and acquire a broader perspective? If we insist that all literature, all art, be run through any single political prism, whether it be Marxist or capitalist or feminist or European or Third World, aren't we creatures of diminished vision? Indeed, if we insist, as has become fashionable in some quarters, that culture and all its creations are everywhere .congruent with political struggle, isn't that the most diminished and diminishing perspective of all? There was an inescapable irony about being in the Soviet Politics' effect on scholarship becomes horses' blinders~ Union and hearing again and again about the importance of depoliticizing and deideologizing the study of culture when so often in the United States I read or hear about the importance of using the arts and the humanities as instruments of politics. I understand that the people advocating this view believe fervently that the political agendas they want to advance are good ones; but, however well-intentioned, using the arts and the humanities in this way limits vision. It is putting on blinders, and what a tragedy for us to do that as intellectuals in other parts of the world are struggling to take them off. I.F. Editor's Note: Mrs; Cheney, wife of U.S. Secretary of Defense Richard Chen~Jy, is the Chairman of the National Endowment for the /lu.manities. This article is.based on a speech she recently made at a conference sponsored by the Madison Center for Educational Affairs. Distributed by the Collegiate Network.

CONCORDIENSIS, March 7, 1991 P'age 9 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Newspaper Coverage of the Gulf War: A Cross- Cultural_ Comparison By STEPHANIE DAVIS and KIMBERLEE BRODY For the past 100 days. you could not open a newspaper without being .bombarded by reports of SCUD attacks, Patriot interceptions, chemical warfare and \The Butcher of Baghdad.\ News coverage around the world is definitely not the same. We have had the opportunity of viewing several British newspapers. Although we speak the same language, the same message is not always conveyed. England's print media is separated into two categories: Qualities and Tabloids. Qualities are respectable newspapers, such as The London - Times, The Telegraph, The Guardian, The Independent, and Financial Times. The tabloids, like ours in the United States, are of lesser quality and more concerned with style than substance. Tabloids include The Daily Mail, The Sun, Today, and The Mirror. With respect to both types of newspapers, their political leanings are more .apparent than their American counterparts. For instance, The Telegraph is known as \The Torygraph.\ It is widely known that T h e London Times is more conservative than T h e Guardian or T h e Independent. Political candidates are more likely to be endorsed in England ilian in the United States. England has national papers, which do not exist in the U.S. The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal, although widely read, are not national papers. The U.S. proved to be more consumed by the war than Britain. The United States has proved to be more consumed by the war than Britain. The United States dedicates more print space to the war coverage than their British counterparts. For example, on February 9, 1991, The New York Times dedicated five pages to the Gulf conflict, whereas T h e London Times dedicated only three pages. Visuals and neatly compacted ·The Modern Language Department is proposing to help interested students form a Modern Language theme ho 1 lSe. WHAT WOULD THIS HOUSE OFFER? ' . • a resource and friend in the foreign language 'assistants, who would also Jive in the house • the OPPORTUNITY (not the requirement) to speak the language of your choice with friends who share your interests • activities planned by you related to the culture whose language you are studying (for example, coffee hours, French crepe parties, German Fasching (= Mardi Gras), Latin American festivals .•. ) • regular showings of foreign films on video NO NEED TO BE FLUENT! You just need to be enrolled in. a forei?n language or literature course OR have some previous expenence with the language. Please leave your name and box numbeT with some member of the :ML Dept. or stop by the office (Hum. 213) for more' information. Modem Language Festival March 7 el 7 de marzo le 7 mars 7. marz 7~ rvtapTa -Fjt8 7:00-8:00 P.M. Milano Lounge Whether you're a polyglot or not, come see skits, dialogs, and hear songs. all performed by Union students in mosl of the languages offered at Umon. There will be free food, legal beverages and entertainment at the Modem Language Festival. LANGUAGE TABLE SCHEDULE, WINTER 1991 Dutch Hollow Dining Room Every day, 12:30-1:30 Mondays-- French, Hebrew Tuesdays--Chinese Wednesdays--Spanish Thursdays--German Fridays--Russian, Japanese summaries are seen more readily in American papers than in British. This may reflect the cultural differences between the two countries. Where the English are more likely to sit down and read a paper cover to cover, the Americans, who are perpetually on the fast track, are willing only to scan and need their news neatly summarized. Whereas in the United States, the press is viewed as an \enemy to the government,\ in England, government officials were more honest in their intentions in Iraq earlier than the Bush administration. As early as January 28, in the Financial Times, England's defense mipister, Tom King, while speaking about the removal of Saddam Hussein stated that, \It has to be right after all the effort and all the costs and all the pain that we have been involved in, we cannot leave the job half finished with a continuing menace continuing to threaten other states in the area.\ Germany's lack of involvement was more marked in the English papers. On February 5, 1991, in The Independent, it was written that the \German ban on low flying 'to blame for RAF losses'.\ This sterns from the English suspicion of Germany. In the United Stales, there is a more concerted effort to appear unbiased than in England. We dowaplayed our triumphs to an extent and avoided speculations of the outcome. However, in England, our triumphs were widely touted. This trend can be attributed to America's \Vietnam Syndrome.\ U.S. anti-war demonstrations were talked about more in the British press, which led many Brits to believe that popular support for the war was lacking. Although the U.S. demonstrations received sufficient press coverage, it was clear from George Bush's 91% approval rating, that the American people were behind his policies toward Lhe Gulf. In the British tabloids. the war was reported differently than in the qualities. Hyperbole and exaggeration were the norm. Statements like \littered with bodies of dead Iraqis,\ \Blast Iraqi command() out of the water,\ \Agony of first woman P .0. W ., \ and \American B52s will rain death on Iraq from British Eases,\ could be seen in Today. The only mention of the conflict in Tabloids spoke of fields \littered with bodies of dead Iraqis.\ the Gulf in American tabloids referred to Saddam's libido. It is apparent in both American and British tabloids that style triumphs over substance. Now that the war is {)VCr, the difference in English and American journalism will become even more apparent. Fleet Street will go back to reporting on Question Time at the House of Commons and the follies of the Royal family whereas the American papers will cover the budget deficit, the 1992 presidential elections, and Madonna. What to Do With a Major in Modern Languages By AIME SIMON On Wednesday, February 27, the Career Development Center (CDC) and the Modern Languages Departple.nt co- sponsored a program entitled \What To Do With a Major in Modern Languages.\ Prof. Sigrid Kellenter, the depanrnnentchairwoman,began by discussing the results of an alumni questionnaire sent to 120 former language majors; 75% of the respondents acknowledged continued use of their language skills in their careers or for pleasure. Seventy-five percent agreed that all students should study a foreign language, and in retrospect wish that they had studied languages in further depth at Union. These alumni described the advantages of their major as (1) increasing cultural awareness (2) ameliorating communication skills and (3) conferring professional possibilities. In addition, they expressed Come and practice your Spanish in a f!U!!O! wa,v Ui Spanish Coffee Hour Thursdays at the Dutch Hollow (near piano) From 4:00 to 5:00 PM Coffee and cookies provided by the Spanish Club See you there!! ADIOS ! I positive sentiments about the Term Abroad experience. Subsequently, a panel of 4 alumni was introduced to explain their current use of a modern language background. The speakers were (1) Anton Warde ('64-Union), a professor in Union's German Department; (2) Melissa Beal ('89), a graduate of the Union 5-year Masers Teaching program and an instructor of German at Shenendahowa Middle School; (3) Jeanne Daley ('90), who is in her second year at Albany Law and is anticipating a career in international law; (4) Barbara Burek ('75), Vice-President of Marketing for Pepsi in the midwestern states, President of Alumni Council and a Trustee of Union. All of the panel members cited their language background as an important aspect of their education, opening career doors due to the diversity of their experiences. For example, recruiters are often impressed by a term or year abmad on a resume, as it demonstrates the candidate's adaptability-, ability to communicate, discipline, as well as an interest in international affairs_ Barbara Burck, who majored in Latin American studies, spent several years working as a translator for an international engineering firm. In this position, she was given the opportunity to work with professionals from Uruguay and Costa Rica. Finally, the alumni stressed keeping an open mind toward career options and allowing one's interests to devei<Jp over time. Following the formal presentation was a 20-rninute question/ answer session, with closing remarks by Janet Harrington Mattis, CDC Assistant Director. Janet recommended the use ()f CDC resources to explore international job options in terms of summer employment, internships, and permanent positions.

· Page 10 NO TIME TO TYPE ??? LET ME TYPE YOUR REPORTS, RESUMES. TERM PAPERS, ETC. LETTER QUALITY TYPING $2.00 PER PAGE (qty.) CALL DIANE AT 355-7892 FOR ALL YOUR TYPING NEEDS Y ··o ..... ·· .• . .. ' ' ~ r'o . ......... :.... • ..... v,r:.~ • CONCORDIENSlS, March 7, 1991 . . . U N I 0 N C o· L L E G E DEPARTMENT O:F BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT and BIOLOGY CLUB Present \THE FITNESS CONSEQUENCES of FORAGING BEHAVIOR in the ZEBRA FINCH'' . ,, l G E r·,· T,, .. r 'I • ~ ....... . •. : ...... '! .• :. Professor of Biology Indiana Univers.ity Thursday, March 7, 1991 4:40 SOCIAL SCIENCES Room 104 REFRESHMENTS 4:30 AN , ... D, P· ... L: A Y :. .. . '\ ··- . ..: . ·- ... R () --· A· n~- r··· ·>· ~ DJ·p· 7 - • ;'>:. ) _,.:... \ l .. : : l :,.{,_' f ::....~~ •••. ••• • •• ~··':$~' ••• ..:, ..... , 0 0:• .... , , •. •• ••••• eo•• WIN A 1991 FORD PROBE LX A FREE GAME CARD FOR EACH BOOK YOU SELL (MARCH 18TH- 22ND, 1991 ) UNION COLLEGE BOOKSTORE COLLEGE CENTER HOURS MON - FRI. 8:45 - 4:30 TELEPHONE 518 370-6188 I '

· Page 10 NO TIME TO TYPE ??? LET ME TYPE YOUR REPORTS, RESUMES, TER!-A PAPERS. ETC. LEITER QUAUTY TYPL'\G $2.00 PER PAGE (qty.l CALL DIAJ'\E AT 355-7892 FOR ALL YOUR TYPING NEEDS RE Y . . . ............. CONCORDIENSIS, March 7, 1991 UNION COLLEGE DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT and BIOLOGY CLUB Present \THE FITNESS CONSEQUENCES of FORAGING BEHAVIOR in the ZEBRA FINCH\ OE .... T.,., . . f\(' ~~ ........ ·.,• ..... Professor of Biology Indiana University Thursday, March 7, 1991 4:40 SOCIAL SCIENCES Room 104 REFRESHMENTS 4:30 E : ' ..,.&~:::::::~-...'-*.~::::::~?· WIN A 1991 FORD PROBE LX A FREE GAME CARD FOR EACH BOOK YOU SELL (MARCH 18TH- 22ND, 1991) UNION COLLEGE BOOKSTORE COLLEGE CENTER HOL:Rs MON- FRI. R:45- 4:30 TELEPHONE 518 37()-6188

CONCORDlENSIS, Much 7, 1991 Page 11 Woti.h Saving~ ENDANGERED SPECIES On Koalas, .Spotted Owls, And You By FRANZ T. LI'TZ, ·Enviro·nmental Editor The destruction of natural habitats by human beings raises questions about the survival of all animal and marine life as we know it. It threatens the existence of the Koala bear in Australia, the spotted-owl in our own northwest, as well as over 500 other wildlife species currently on the endangered species list in the United States. Hundreds of other species are faced with situations that put them near endangennent. Perhaps more importantly-to human beings that is-is the fact that the continual neglect of the world's natural environment is destroying even our own habitat. Yet, the important distinction that separates us from our friends the Koala bears, as Founders Day speaker and alumnus John H. Ostrom emphasized in his talk, is that as humans we have tile power to change thls course of self-destruction. Over the last naif-century, the population of Koala bears, one of the world's most beloved creatwes, _has dwindled from more than several million to a current 400 thousand. The num~r continues to decline. The elimination of thousands of Eucalyptll.S trees to make way for farmland, tourist developmen1s, and new homes has left many Koalas without homes, and without food. The Koala bear survive!; almost exclusive!)' ()ff the leaves of the Eucalyptus, and, aside from those scattered in zoos across the globe, is found only in Australia. The malnutrition has led to tile .spread of .cliseases. The New York Timt!s reported that 40% of the SIJI'Viving Koalas are now suffering from Chlamydia, a venereal disease that leads to infertility in the females. The spotted owl has faced similar destruction of its natural habitat. The majestic old forest that once stretched from Northern Washington into Northern California has been virtually wiped out by continuous logging, leaving only ten· percent of the trees still standing. With forestry pmviding a large number of jobs in the region, politicians have been hesitant t<l act to preserve a part of the forest, action that would in tum preserve a living space for· the spotted owl. Environmentalists fought a hard battle to fmally designate the spotted owl an endangered species, which under the law prohibits the further destruction of its habitat. One battle won: many hundreds yet to he fought And time is running out. An investigative report on 'endangered species by the General Accounting Office of Congress. issued in January of 1989, stated: \The earth is nearing a stage of extinction of species unequaled since that of the age of dinosaurs.\ And it didn't take long for the Bush administration to show where it stood on the issue. The New York Times quoted Secretary of the Interior Manuel Lujan, Jr. as saying, '\Do we have to save every subspecies? The Red Squirrel is the best example. Nobody's told me the difference between a red squirrel. a black one, or a brown one.\ This from the man, aPJlointed by our \environmentalist\ president, leading the effort against the destruction of wildlife habitats. Ostrom pointed out that the earth is incredibly resilient to change, aiid has been over the millenniums. Strippimg her of trees, changing her weather patterns, and depleting her of resources~ he notes, will not destroy her. Species, too, have come, and gone. And it is likely that more will die out as a direct result of our incessant drive to make \better\ lives for ourselves, and for our exploding world populations. A mere hundred or so years after the Industrial Revolution, we must remember that the destruction of the Koala bear's home is indicative of a more terrifying reality: tile gradual destruction of ow own human home. But we, unlike the helpless Koala bear, can act. For we possess a power unlike that of any other species in history: the power to sustain or destroy our habitat. Tile only question: how much longer can we afford to maintain this reckless cowse? ENVIRONMENTAL l I . ·~· I \ . . :.' ! ' ~ \ i Attention Union Community The First Minerva Lecture Spring Term Will Be Given By Frederic Krupp Executive Director of The Environmental Defense Fund Mr. Krupp is a lawyer with extensive experience in environmental law. He is currently on the Boards of Green Seal, Inc., The Keystone Center, Resources for the Future, and the Connecticut Fund for the Environment. He chairs the Recycling Advisory Council, serves on the Advisory Boards of both Earth. Communications Office (ECO) and Environmental Media Association (EMA) in Los Angeles, as well as Governor Mario Cuomo's Environmental Advisory Board. He will gi~e his talk on Thursday, April 4, at 11 a.m. in the College Center Auditorium. I' I • jj

CONCORDIENSIS, March 7, 1991 Page 11 Wo11h Saving. ENDANGERED SPECIES On Koalas, Spotted Owls, And You By FRANZ T. LITZ, Environmental Editor The destruction of natural habitats by human beings raises questions about the survival of all animal and marine life as we know it. It threatens the existence of the Koala bear in Australia, the spotted-owl in our own northwest, as weU as over 500 other wildlife species currently on the endangered species list in the United States. Hundreds of other species are faced with situations that put them near endangerment. Perhaps more importantly-to human beings that is-is the fact that the continual neglect of the world's natural environment is destroying even our own habitat. Yet, the important distinction that separates us from our friends the Koala bears, as Founders Day speaker and alumnus John H. Ostrom emphasized in his talk, is that as humans we have the power to change this course of self-destruction. Over the last half-century, the population of Koala bears, one of the world's most beloved creatures, has dwindled from more than several million to a current 400 thousand. The number continues to decline. The elimination of thousands of Eucalyptus trees to make way for farmland, tourist developments, and new homes has left many Koalas without homes, and without food. The Koala bear survives almost exclusively off the leaves of the Eucalyptus, and, aside from those scattered in zoos across the globe, is found only in Australia. The malnutrition has led to the spread of diseases. The New York. Times reported that 40% of the surviving Koalas are now suffering from Chlamydia, a venereal disease that leads to infertility in the females. The spotted owl has faced similar destruction of its natural habitat. The majestic old forest that once stretched from Northern Washington into Northern California has been virtually wiped out by continuous logging, leaving only ten percent of the trees still standing. With forestry providing a large number of jobs in the region, politicians have been hesitant to act to preserve a part of the forest, action that would in tum preserve a living space for the spotted owl. Environmentalists fought a hard battle to finally designate the spotted owl an endangered species, which under the law prohibits the further destruction of its habitat. One battle won: many hundreds yet to be fought And time is running out. An investigative report on endangered species by the General AccrJunting Office of Congress, issued in January of 1989, stated: \The earth is nearing a stage of extirlction of species unequaled since that of the age of dinosaurs.\ And it didn't take long for the Bush administration to show where it stood on the issue. The New York Times quoted Secretary of the Interior Manuel Lujan, Jr. as saying, \Do we have to save every subspecies? The Red Squirrel is the best example. Nobody's told me the difference between a red squirrel, a black one, or a brown one.\ This from the man, appointed by our \environmentalist\ president. leading the effort against the destruction of wildlife habitats. Ostrom pointed out that the earth is incredibly resilient to change, and has been over the millenniums. Stripping her of trees, changing her weather patterns, and depleting her of resources, he notes, will not destroy her. Species, too, have come, and gone. And it is likely that more will die out as a direct result of our incessant drive to make \better\ lives for ourselves, and for our exploding world populations. A mere hundred or so years after the Industrial Revolution, we must remember that the destruction of the Koala bear's home is indicative of a more terrifying reality: the gradual destruction of our own human home. But we, unlike the helpless Koala bear, can act. For we possess a power unlike that of any other species in history: the power to sustain or destroy our habitat. The only question: how mnch longer can we afford to maintain this reckless course? ENVIRONMENTAL / . .- ,//// /. / , .. -.' ' . - .' ''Enough o-f iN. doorv'\.SaJjev- rhe...-fov-;c.. ~. The. maLn tfi\ng LSa itla:t I hrure.. 0. ~ob - rL.sh:t r II Attention Union Community The First Minerva Lecture Spring Term Will Be Given By Frederic Krupp Executive Director of The Environmental Defense Fund Mr. Krupp is a lawyer with extensive experience in environmental law. He is currently on the Boards of Green Seal, Inc., The Keystone Center, Resources for the Future, and the Connecticut Fund for the Environment. He chairs the Recycling Advisory Council, serves on the Advisory Boards of both Earth Communications Office (ECO) and Environmental Media Association (EMA) in Los Angeles, as well as Governor Mario Cuomo's Environmental Advisory Board. He will give his talk on Thursday, April 4, at 11 a.m. m the College Center Auditorium. • Come Hear The Dutch Pipers, Garnet Gospel Ensemble Minstrelles and Concert Band in the MUSICAL SHOWCASE CABARET , • I • Tonight 9:00 P.M. Old Chapel

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, March 7, 1991 C!rnnrnrbtrnsts LETTERs ----------------------------------------------------- -----Founded at Union College 1877--- Early to Rise Not So Wise Another pre-registration period was another term of wasted time and needless frustration. Last Wednesday, herds of students in hats and hairclips somnambulated their way to the upstairs offices of academic buildings all over campus. Of course, even the earliest risers meet the inevitable fate of finding that a long line of people who could buy concert tickets for a living is already there. These people. must have ~d in th~ restrooms overnight or paid off the Jam tors for admtttance m the wee hours of the morning. . And e~en those who meet all of the requirements of the Ill-concetved system and forego a night's sleep to get into the class they want, or, worse yet, the class they need to graduate, often are inexplicably shut out by the whim of a professor who is unaware of the hardship brought by this procedure. How is it that a senior who has one last term to get an F credit, and signs up at the top of the list like she/he shouldn't really have to, can be denied that class? Professors do not like the system, students hate the system, the department secretaries are turned into victims of Who concerts, and then the registrar complains when the professor who has a heart lets in a few more desetVing students than the original limit was set for. Who can do something about this? In the last four years. the only real change in the system has been to call pre-registration \pre- scheduling,\ perhaps as a reminder that by registering for our courses we have not yet avoided the fme of $35.00 that goes to whomever in case we forget to drop our cards into the boxes on time. There are a few departments that are able to bring method to this madness. The political science, psychology, and economic departments derive their class lists by matching people up with their most preferred courses offered by the department, with lots of attention paid to previous courses in the field and class year, and no favoritism based on who has the more powerful alarm clock. Either other departments should take a lesson from these model departments, or the whole system should be redeveloped from scratch. ··----- Back to the Basics Over the past four years, numerous issues have arisen as sources of debate. Among the long list of disputes have been the issues of administration policy on renovation of the Nott Memor:ial, greek organizations, social policy in ~eneral, housmg, and more recently, the school motto. This hst demonstrates the emphasis on non-educational issues whi~h exist~ at Union. Controversy over changing cumcular pohcy has been the lone exception. This situation has occurred as a result .of administration and student behavior. The administration continually fails to realize that by implementing changes in policy, such as housing, by encouraging change instead of forcing it, unneeded turmoil could be avoided. Better conditions in on- campus housing at competitive prices would attract students back to on-campus housing, and bypass the student outrage which has occurred. · The superfluous distraction which abrupt and insensitive administrative decisions cause, not only divert student attention unnecessarily from pursuing academic work, but also from student actions for educational improvement. Student-administration relations are mistakenly perceived as paramount, when in fact it is student-faculty rapport which should be the focus in an educational institution of higher learning. Students ail too often take the approach that their education, their reason for being at Union, is beyond their control. This is far from true. In fact, only through student participation, and student-faculty cooperation can academics at Union, and the quality of the school improve significantly. This process begins with constructive participation through evaluating professors on a triennial ba.;;is. These evaluations help to detennine the quality of our education, but action should not stop here. The impact that can be had in influencing social policy can just as easily be wielded in the area of education. It is simply a decision of purpose. What are these four years for? Partial Meal Plan Disproportionate To the Editor: Now that Union is requesting that everyone through their junior year live on campus, another issue should be addressed-· the meal plan. Since few dorms are equipped with adequate kitchen facilities, many upperclassmen may need to be on the meal plan. In the past few years effort has been made (i.e. being able to use meal cards at the Dutch Hollcw) to make the meal plan a more appeaHng altemativec •. However, I feel that many up)lerdassmen choose to discontin11e the meal plan not due to tile. Ciuality of the food, but rathe1 tile cost. Though the full m~al plan {$815 for nineteen ~meals pet week) is reasonable~ five meals per week cost $38:5 (or $7.70 per meal). Why pay that much money when for ~ltalf the amount you could pay ~cash in the Dutch Hollow or RathskeHar? If Union C()Uld either make the cost of the partial meal plans propOrtional to the cost of the full meal plan or devise a system in which students had ·some amount of credit, not only would more students' needs be accommodated, but I feel it would cut down on the tremendous waste in the dining halls. Obviously the partial meal plans are most convenient for many students, so why not make them .a more affordable option? Sincerely, Hallie A. Karotkin '92 !RD\Y JEJB. VI U lEW [f)) A JI CIJ.lB.!E. C !E Nit IE lR Is looking for students interested in early childhood development to help in . the infants, to:ddler and pre- school room. For more info call: Mary Rainey at 783-1864, ext. 4246 Letters to the Editor do not necessarily reflect the . . opmtons of the Editorial Board All Letters to the Editor must be typed, double spaced and submitted to the Concordiensis office by 4:00p.m. on the Tuesday preceeding publication. Anonymous letters will not be accepted. Concordiensis reserves the right to edit letters for length.

ALAS Grateful To the Editor: Black History Month, a month in which African Americans across the nation celebrate their accomplishments, a time they have set aside to encourage and empower their own. As the month qf February, symbolically known as black history, rolled by, members of ALAS worked hard to put a celebration together for the entire Union College campus to enjoy. Now that February has ended, there's no doubt about the success of these events. At this time ALAS and all its members would like to take the time out to say THANK YOU to all who h~lped and participated in these events. A special thanks to: the political science department, the dean of students office, AOP, speakers' forum, Mountebanks, student activities office, concert committee, the library and a very special thanks to all the students, faculty and community members who took the time out to attend these very special events. Angela Rudolph '93 CJ 0 HOW ABOUT ALL YOU CAN EAT SPAGHETTI II AT THE KOSHER KITCHEN ON THURSDAY THE 7TH FOR SPAGHETTI DINNER II FOR THE ULTIMATE DINING EXPERIENCE 6:00 Gone, But Not Forgotten. The passenger pigeon. The heath hen The Labrador duck. The Carolina p:uakeet. The list of extinct animals grows. But it doesn't ha\'l: to. The National Wlldlife Federntion is working to 53\'l: endangered species. Join us 'tl.ilile there's still time .. The National Wildlife Fedmuon, 1-i 12161hStreet,Nw,Washingt011. DC 20036-2266. Working for the Nature of Tomorrow., NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION P.M. CONCORDIENSIS, March 7, 1991 Page 13 LETTERS Eliminate Sexist Semantics To the Editor: We would like to voice our strong opposition to your 2/28 editorial entitled \Is Nothing Sacred?\ Ideals and policies define just about any institution, especially one .of higher learning. Recorded history and tradition ha~e sentimental value, but when a tradition promotes an offensive attitude, this tradition should rightfully be changed, especial- ly when the tradition is in direct conflict with the ideals of the institution. This being. the case then, the idea of changing the hallowed school motto to accommodate the admission of women to the college seems entirely appropriate. One who would dispute this on the grounds that it is a break with tradition must logically conclude that Union College should never have admitted women, since this too was a break ·with tradition. An extension of this logic would have led to the perpetuation of slavery in the twentieth century and permanently deprived women of the right to vote. While the motto does not explicitly mention the existence of women at the college, the semantics do not even REMOTELY imply that such is the case. The term \men as used in historical documents such as. the Constitution and the Declara- tion of Independence, is regarded a being gender neutral, but these documents make no reference to the term \brother which is not so regarded. If the author had given serious consideration to the implications of changing the motto, she or he would have known that neither the Alma Mater nor the college's charter Interested in developing your include gender specific il~u1guage. In fact, the author ceuld not have possibly read th~ college charter, since we, as w<>rk-study students in the Dffice ofthe Vice President for F'i11ance and Administration, .recently compiled the original cllarter and aU subsequent arne11dments. and copies are only available through this office. A.s serious consideration is give11 to changing the motto, no doubt the domino effect will came into play and every facet cf college lif~ will be re- examined to eliminate sexist la.n:g11age, and subsequently, practices. We welcome this. Until you remove sexist language, you are a sexist in.stitution, and .t.hi£ is at' the heart of the matter. Tracey Pryluck '91 Karen Neddenneyer '92 Franz Litz '91 LEADERSHIP SK1LLS in HUMAN RELATIONS? Become a PEER FACILITATOR • Get leadership training. • Learn more about communication in relationships, sexuality-, sex-role stereotypes, acquaintance rape, etc. • Put on workshops to facilitate discussion on these topics a.mong students. Qualifications: Peer Facilitators must - • Be full-time juniors ,or seniors at Union during their year of participation. • Have a GPA of 2.3 or better. • Be willing to make a commitment to the p()sition for one year. • Be able to devote a minimum of five hours per week to the positi()n. • Possess effective interpersonal conununication skills. Have the ability to speak to large. groups, and the ability to listen effectively and relate to the concerns and perspecuves of others. • Have the desire to raise awareness among the student body concerning communication and sexuality in relationships. Information sessions and the application process will take place Spring Term. If you want to apply and will not be on campus this Spring;: Contact Joanne Tobiessen, Assistant Dean and Director of the CDC, at x6176 YOLUNTEER DID YOU KROW, NEARLY 60% OF OUR NATION'S HISPANIC YOUTH DROP OUT OF HIGH SCHOOL? Because of this astoundi11g figure, the Hispanic Outreach S~rvices of Schenectady is looking for volunteers to work with Schenectady youth at Linton and Mont Pleasant High Schools. If you have a desire to make a difference in a young J)erson's life, a knowledge of Spanish, ~nd some extra time to volunteer duri11g Spring term, consider volunteering for Hispanic Outreach Services. Additional informati()n is available at the Career Developme11t Center, third floor, Old Cllapel.

. ,Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, March 7, 1991 Congratulations! the Editors-in-Cbief Starting Spring Term Wednesday Movie: THE PERFECT GIFT! For your roommate, friends, sorority and fraternity sisters and brothers, student grant, eic. \Telecommunications Gift Certificates\ available for purchase at Telecommunications Office, College Center/103. For more information 370- 6411. The Jungle Book Give a liHie Learn a lot Volunteer today!!! JusrBE YouSKI L DoESN'TM You'LL 1tJRN INTO Contact Lenses For Less Fast, Convenient, Direct-to-You savings of up to 50%. All Brands ·and Prescriptions in stock, in- cluding Tints & Disposables. Overnight shipments available. Lenses 100% Guaranteed in fac- tory-sealed vials. Call for information and FREE CATALOG. 800-726-7802 24 Hours . 70ays POOR UDENT $10 ISCOUNt Stratton has a lower price for anyone pursuing a higher education. $22 midweek. $28 on weekends and holidays. So you can save $10 any day and every day with a current college I .D. And you get 92 exciting trails, f:l).i a 12-passenger gondola, plus all the extracurricular ' fun you can handle. Now, how's that for financial aid? ® VERMONT eau 1-800-843..-6867 or 1·802·297-2200. \

CONCORDIENSIS, March 7, 1991 Page 15 LIFESTYLE!i The Quest for Good Chinese · Food By JULIE SCHLAN G Lifestyles Editor I am on a mission to find a good Chinese restaurant in Schenectady. This has been one of the harder tasks of my Union College career. My latest effort was a place called Hunan Wok right on Union Street. My hopes were high. A friend recommended it to me so I was excited. Well, to say the least, I no longer trust this friend. I walked into the restaurant and I have to say it Kosher Kitchen 1 IMatlf'©lh ~ 991 ® : «))«)) IP' M All You Can E.at Spaghetti and Meatballs Garlic Bread Beverage Bring Your Meal Cards All Are Welcome was very cute. There were modern-looking black tables with flowers and maroon accents. I had no problem noticing the decor considering my eating companion and I were the only ones in the restaurant. The restaurant was so cute that for a moment it didn't feel like I was on Union Street. Well, reality hit me in the face when my soda arrived .• .in its can. I wasn't going to give up hope yet - hey the food might be good. We ordered soup and a chicken dish. While we waited for it to come, I happened to notice the very interesting placemats. They told all about the Chinese zodiac. There were pictures of rats, cats, pigs and various other animals. I know this sounds terrible, but these pictures set my mind wandering and wondering what exactly was cooking behind those pretty oriental cwtains. Anyway, the food started to arrive. The soup was typical wonton material. It was pretty good • . . if you like MSG. UNION COLLEGE DINING SERVICES PRESENTS AMERICAN WHOLE FOODS CUISINE . . ~ VEGETARIAN EXTRAVAGANZA UPPERCLASS DINING HALL, COLLEGE CENTER SATURDAY, MARCH 9, 1991 6:00PM Hors d' Oeuvres Olive and Pimento Oleese Spread Eggplant Caponata & Whole Grain Crackers Quick Pickles Marinated Zucchini Sticks Pickled Mushrooms White Bean Pate & Whole Grain CrackeiS Soup White Gazpacho Entree - Paella Vegetable Oiange Glazed Carrots Stir Fried Green Beans with Garlic No Charge to Union College Students on the Meal Plan $9.95 to Union College Community $12.95 for General Public Admissions Sign up 48 hours in advance at Dutch Hollow Restaurant. 2;00-4:00 pm and 7:00-9:00 pm Upperclass or West Dilling Hall- Lunch or Oinnc.rT\unes Dining Services Office - 8:30 l!!ll • S:OO pm Telephone • 370-6050 Monday, CINEMA March 11: PARADISO 9:00PM cc 302 Uni?{io College ll r Career I J Development ~~:~:,,p~.: Center Spring or Summer Internship in Financial Planning at IDS, an American Express Company, in Albany. Contact Thomas F. Wayne, Division Manager, IDS Financial Services, Executive Woods, 4 Atrium Drive, Suite 100, Albany, NY ·12205. Come to the CDC for more Information. The real killer was the chicken dish though. Now, the dish was called \chicken with assorted vegetables.\ How can you go w:rong with such a basic dish. Well, after eating this, obviously you can. I wish I could say it tasted really bad or even really good, but the bottom line is, it just tasted like nothing. I mean it had no taste whatsoever! For a moment, I thought there was something wrong with my taste buds. There was one last ray of hope though. I figured if I got a good fortune, this meal would be somewhat worth my while. Well, the fortune was: \Your luck will change today.\ I could have predicted that one! Obviously my luck changed. I used to like eating Chinese food. The real icing on the cake was that in the car ride home I heard a new song called \Rice Rice Baby\ {a take off of Vanilla Ice) about Chinese takeout. It made me realize the one positive thing about Hunan Wok. The rice was good. The quest continues ... with The Tina Ward Duo fll'~d~lf~ M~ll'©~ ~ !5J~!fni ~~ !5:~<0) ~m in 1~~ C©~~~@~ C~Uil~~!r A~n-onJJm C'mon, put the books down & take a last break before finals Solution to \Compound Interest .--G-.--A-.---8 ..-p- S H A R P r-:-8--r---::-0-r-l..,.-D._, Ul OM REA E A S A R E E AN <DEDI PVS Union College Theatre Presents Oedipus ~ased on the play by Sophocles Through March 9, 1991 Nott Memorial Theater Celebrating Thirty Years 1967-7997

Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS, March 7, 1991 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Indian Classical Music By NILESH SHUKLA On Friday, February 22, Shakti, the newest multicultural organization on campus, sponsored an Indian classical music concert in the dance studio of the Arts Building. The performing artists were V eena Chandra, a well-known classical musician and teacher in the Albany area, on the sitar, and Anup Bhattacharjya, a graduate student at R.P.I. on the tabla. They were accompanied by talented members of the Chandra family. The evening began with traditional Indian vocal pieces in which Mrs. Chandra sang the lead and a chorus repeated. Mrs. Chandra played the harmonium, a small, air- pumped keyboard, during this part of the program. An enchanting sitar performance followed. V cena Chandra played various ragas, including an elaborate exposition of raga Baageshri, and several folk tunes. Mr. Bhattacharjya maintained the rhythm in talas Teen, Kerava, and Khema. A tabla solo and short sitar pieces brought the concert to a close. Guests enjoyed Indian snacks and tea after the program. Veena Chandra is the director of the School of Indian Music in Latham, NY. She holds a Masters degree in Indian Music. She is willing to teach sitar, tabla, dance, vocal and other instruments at Union College to interested students starting Spring term, '91. If anyone is interested, please contact Shakti or the Arts Department Look out for more events sponsored by Shakti in the near future. Better Than Bran: WRUC Record Reviews By RON EUGENIO The Feelies- Time For A Witness (A&M) The Feelies, next to Sonic Youth, is probably the most under-rated band to come out of the last decade, and certainly the best band to come out of New Jersey. 1988's 0 n l:y L i f e is a car stereo masterpiece; no matter how loud or how soft you play it, the band's inescapable enthusiasm always comes through, and songs like \Away\ and \Higher Ground\ tend to make you forget the miles you have to reach home. How do you top an album that's so thoroughly satisfying! You don't. Time For A Witness is the sound of a band- that's always up~and· coming but never quite arrives. This is reflected in their song titles: \Sooner Or Later\ is layered in the same jangle used since '83. \Waiting\ is a brooding track with a guitar solo that borders on angry .. and \Find A Way\ contains Velvet Underground-ish bongos and high guitar twangs. This is an album that's determined to prove itself, which is good and fine, but as a band The Feelies have proven themselves at least five years ago. While it doesn't solve any problems, or even raise any questions, Time For A Witness still holds as another light-weight champion for alternative stations and car- radios everywhere. Feelies' fans won't be disappointed. Dinosaur Jr.- Green Mind (Warner Bros.) Dinosaur Jr. on a major label. It's incredibly hard seeing one of the fuzziest garage bands with a clean sterile corporation whose musical stable includes Madonna and Damn Yankees. What's the net profit on guitar angst anyway? Well, after releasing the exalting Bug a few years back, it seemed success was inevitable. Green Mind has a lot in common with that last album; the ftrst song \Wagon\ echoes the cement stomp of \Freak:scene\, and even tlaough they now have LASS ______ TION \Class Action\ a drama starring Gene Hackman and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio as a father and daughter battling in a highly charged class action lawsuit, opens March 15, with a sneak preview this Friday, March8. Gene Hackman and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio star in \Class Action\ directed by Michael Apted (\Coal Miner's Daughter\. \Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid\ \Tequila Sunrise\) is the director of photography and Todd Hallowell (\Parenthood\) ~~c~gned the production. Ted Field, Scott Kroopf and Robert W. Cort are producing \Class Action\ for Interscope Communications. Gene Hackman stars as Jedediah Ward, a lion in winter with the fires still burning brightly. From his first Academy Award-winning performance in \Bonnie and Clyde\ to his most recent Oscar-nominated role in \Mississippi Burning,\ Hackman has earned his reputation as one of America's consummate actors. His diverse list of credits includes his Academy Award-winning portrayal of Eddie \Popeye\ OIIIIRIT MUSICAL SHOWCASE COME HEAR A MEDLEY OF UNION'S BEST MUSICAL TALENT!! THE DUTCH PIPERS GOSPEL ENSEMBLE GARNET MINSTELLES AND Doyle in \The French Connection\ and his Oscar- nominated role as Melvyn Douglas' tortured son in \I Never Sang For My Father\. Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio stars as Maggie Ward, the quintessential young professional-- at the top of her game and eager for her career to catch up with her abHity. Mastrantonio's debut as AI Pacino's ill-fated sister in Brian De Palma's \Scarface\ earned her critical acclaim, and her performance opposite Paul Newman and Tom Cruise in \The Color of Money\ earned her an Academy A ward nomination in the supporting actress category. Joining Hackman and Mastrantonio are Joanna - Merlin (\Mystic Pizza\ \The Killing Fields\) Colin Friels \Darkman \) Jonathan Silverman (\Weekend at Bernie's\ \Brighton Beach King Ralph The Doors -. White Fang Scenes From A Mall. He Said, She Silence of the Lambs Memoirs\) Donald Moffat (\The Right Stuff\ \The Unbearable Lightness of Being\) Larry Fishburne (\School Daze\) and Jan Rubes (\Witness\). British director Michael Apted is noted for shooting his films on location. \Coal Miner's Daughter\ was filmed in the Appalachian Mountains and the deep South; \Gorky Park\ in Helsinki, Finland; \Continental Divide\; in Chicago and the Rocky Mountains; \Gorillas in the Mist: The Adventure of Dian Fossey\ in Rwanda and Kenya. \Class Action\ was filmed on location in San Francisco and the Bay area and utilizes many unusual locations, including the Supervisors' Chambers of San Francisco's City Hall, never before seen in a film , which became the courtroom setting for the climactic class action lawsuit. Twentieth Century Fox is primarily engaged in the financing, development, production, distribution and marketing of motion pictures throughout the world and is a unit of Fox Inc. Shipwrecked Sleeping With the Enemy Never Ending Story Part II Nothing But Trouble Dances With Wolves L.A. Story My Heroes Have Always Been Cowboys CONCERT BAND DATE: THURSDAY, MARCH 7 PLACE: OLD CHAPEL TIME: 9:00PM Call Theaters for Show Times. SPRING BREAK '91 Montego Bay & Negri!, Cancun & Acapulco, Panama City Beach JAMAICA MEXICO FLORIDA For information and reservations, contact: ADAM PERLOW @ 386-4133 ~cccs~ to better recording studios, the heavy haze that nonnally surrounds them hasn't changed. If anything, Dinosaur Jr. have taken steps to stay as messy as possible. After all, pigs wallow in mud because it keeps 'em cool. \Water\, with its stop-and-go rhythm and the incredibly hoarse, shy vocals of J. Masics, has the potential to hit top 40, if only they threw in a drum track and preached about the homeless. \Flying Cloud\ is a purifying ballad that swims in acoustic guitars with vocals so botched it keeps it down to earth. The title track closes the album smartly, even from $459 from $429 from $119 STS STUDENT TRAVEL SERVICES getting away with an arena rock guitar solo. Green Mind proves that industry cannot change vision, that fuzz, when used correctly, gives a guitar a kick that doesn't fade after repeated listenings, and that too much smoking does raggedly neat things to a vocalist.

Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS, March 7, 1991 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT LASS CTION \Class Action\ a drama staning Gene Hackman and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio as a father and daughter battling in a highly charged class action lawsuit, opens March 15, with a sneak preview this Friday, March 8. Doyle in ''The French Connection\ and his Oscar- nominated role as Melvyn Douglas' tortured son in \I Never Sang For My Father\. Indian Classical Music Gene Hackman and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio star in \Class Action\ directed by Michael Apted (\Coal Miner's Daughter\ \Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid\ \Tequila Sunrise\) is the director of photography and Todd Hallowell (\Parenthood\) c~:-i~ned the production. Ted Field, Scott Kroopf and Robert W. Curt are producing \Class Action\ for Interscopc Communications. Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio stars as Maggie Ward, the quintessential young professional-- at the top of her game and eager for her career 1.0 catch up with her ability. Mastrantonio's debut as Al Pacino's ill-fated sister in Brian De Palma's \Scarface\ earned her critical acclaim, and her performance opposite Paul Newman and Tom Cruise in \The Color of Money\ earned her an Academy Award nomination in the supporting actress category. Joining Hackman and Mastrantonio are Joanna Merlin (\Mystic Pizza\ \The Killing Fields\) Colin Friels \Darkman\), Jonathan Silverman (\Weekend at Bernie's\ \Brighton Beach Ry NILESH SHl_iKLA On Friday, February 22, Shakti, the newest multicultural organization on campus. sponsored an Indian classical music concert in the dance studio of the Arts Building. The performing artists were Veena Chandra, a well-known classical musician and teacher in the Albany area, on the sitar, and Anup Bhattacharjya, a graduate student at R.P .I. on the tabla. They were accompanied by talented members of the Chandra family. The evening began with traditional Indian vocal pieces in which Mrs. Chandra sang the lead and a chorus repeated. Mrs. Chandra played the harmonium, a small, air- pumped keyboard, during this part of the program. An enchanting sitar performance followed. Vccna Chandra played various ragas. including an elaborate exposition of raga Baageshri, and several folk tunes. Mr. Bhauacharjya maintained the rhythm in talas Teen. Kerava, and Khema. A tabla solo and short sitar pieces brought the concert to a close. Guests enjoyed Indian snacks and tea after the program. V eena Chandra is the director of the School of Indian Music in Latham, NY. She holds a Masters degree in Indian Music. She is willing to teach sitar, tabla, dance, vocal and other instruments at Union College to interested students starting Spring term, '91. If anyone is interested, please contact Shakti or the Arts Department. Look out for more events sponsored by Shakti in the ncar future. Gene Hackman stars as Jcdediah Ward, a lion in winter with the fires still burning brightly. From his first Academy Award-winning performance in \Bonnie and Clyde\ to his most recent Oscar-nom ina ted role in \Mississippi Burning,\ Hackman has earned his reputation as one of America's consummate actors. His diverse list of credits includes his Academy Award-winning portray.1l of Eddie \Popeye\ CABARET MUSICAL SHOWCASE COME HEAR A MEDLEY OF UNIO'II'S BEST MUSICAL TALENTII DUTCH PIPERS GOSPEL ENSEMBLE GARNET MINSTELLES King Ralph The Doors White Fang Scenes From A Mall. He Said, She Silence of the Lambs Memoirs\) Donald Moffat (\The Right Stuff\ \The Unbearable Lightness of Being\) Larry Fishburne (\School Daze\) and Jan Rubes (\Witness\). British director Michael Apted is noted for shooting his films on location. \Coal Miner's Daughter\ was filmed in the Appalachian Mountains and the deep South; \Gorky Park\ in Helsinki, Finland; \Con tin ental Div id c\; in Chicago and the Rocky Momiltains; \Gorillas in the Mist: The Adventure of Dian Fossey\ in Rwanda and Kenya. \Class Action\ was filmed on location in San Francisco and the Bay area and utilizes many unusual locations, including the Supervisors' Chambers of San Francisco's City Hall, never before seen in a film , which became the courtroom setting for the climactic class action lawsuit. Twentieth Century Fox is primarily engaged in the financing, development, production, distribution and marketing of motion pictures throughout the world and is a unit of Fox Inc. Shipwrecked Sleeping With the Enemy Never Ending Story Part II Nothing But Trouble Dances With Wolves L.A. Story My Heroes Have Always Been Cowboys Better Than Bran: CONCERT BAND DATE THURSDAY,MARCH7 PLACE: OLD CHAPEL TIME: 9·00PM Call Theaters for Show Times. WRUC Record Reviews By RON EUGENIO The Feelics- Time For A Witness (A&M) The Feelies, next to Sonic Youth, is probably the most under-rated band to come out of the last decade. and certainly the best band to come out of New Jersey. 1988's Only Life is a car stereo masterpiece; no matter how loud or how soft you play it, the band's inescapable enthusiasm always comes through, and songs like \Away\ and \Higher Ground\ tend to make you forget the miles you have to reach home. How do you top an album that's so thoroughly satisfying? You don't. Time For A Witness is the sound of a band that's always up-and- coming but never quite arrives. This is reflected in their song titles: \Sooner Or Later\ is layered in the same jangle used since '83. \Waiting\ is a brooding track with a guitar solo that borders on angry, and \Find A Way\ contains Velvet Underground-ish bongos and high guitar twangs. This is an album that's determined to prove itself, which is good and fine, but as a band The Feelies have proven themselves at least five years ago. While it doesn't solve any problems, or even raise any questions, Time For A Witness still holds as another light-weight champion for alternative stations and car- radios everywhere. Feelies' fans won't be disappointed. Dinosaur Jr.- Green Mind (Warner Bros.) Dinosaur Jr. on a major label. Ifs incredibly hard seeing one of the fuzziest garage bands with a clean sterile corporation whose musical stable includes Madonna and Damn Yankees. What's the net profit on guitar angst anyway? Well, after releasing the exalting Bug a few years back, it seemed success was inevitable. Green Mind has a lot in common with that last album; the first song \Wagon\ echoes the cement stomp of \Freakscene\, and even though they now have SPRING BREAK '91 Montego Bay & Negril, Cancun & Acapulco, Panama City Beach JAMAICA MEXICO FLORIDA For information and reseNations, contact: ADAM PERLOW @ 386-4133 ~cccs& to better recording studios, the heavy haze that normally surrounds them hasn't changed. If anything, Dinosaur Jr. have taken steps to stay as messy as possible. After all, pigs wallow in mud because it keeps 'em cool. \Water\. with its stop-and-go rhythm and the incredibly hoarse, shy vocals of J. Masics, has the potential to hit top 40, if only they threw in a drum track and preached about the homeless. \Flying Cloud\ is a purifying ballad that swims in acoustic guitars with vocals so botched it keeps it down to earth. The title track closes the album smartly, even from $459 from $429 from $119 STS STUDENT TRAVEL SERVICES getting away with an arena rock guitar solo. Green Mind proves that industry cannot change vision, that fuzz, when used correctly, gives a guitar a kick that doesn't fade after repeated listenings, and that too much smoking does raggedly neat things to a vocalist. 1 1 I I I I ' .l

CONCORDIENSIS, March 7, 1991 Page 17 .. ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Things To Consider In Entertainment By JULIE MEDOW Arts Editor Since this is the last article I will be writing this term, I thought I'd talk about a lot of different things, and just see what happens. I'm warning you now. My brain is slightly fried from all of the work I've had, and I'm having trouble expressing myself in complete sentences. Please bear with me there), I would stick to the mindless and inane for serious spring break relaxation. The movie The Doors comes to mind, with King Ralph as a close second. The two to,p thrillers this week seem to be Sleeping With The Enemy and Silence Df The Lambs, so take someone you want to grab for two hours, and have a ball. But seriously, on Monday, March 11 in CC 302 (a.k.a. the Cabaret room), one of my favorite movies OF ALL TIMES is being shown at 9:00. ft's entitled Cinema Paradiso, and it won the Academy Award for best foreign film of 1989. It's in Italian with English subtitles, but don't get lazy on me. The movie is totally worth reading. You may want to bring some -- tissues. Owen Meany, and it blew my mind away. Irving is a bit twisted, which you may know from either seeing or reading The World According to Garp. but that's what makes his fiction so cool. By the way; he'H he coming to Albany next week - look at the article below for details. Another good author to attack is John Updike, and his Rabbit series. Rabbit at Rest the most recent and final work in the bunch, is available as a single novel, or as a pan of the entire series. If you are looking for pseudo- trash, you may be interested in Carrie Fisher's pseudo- biographical novels, Postcards From The Edge, and £urrender The Pink. Personally, after reading Postcards .... I couldn't help thinking that Carrie First off, if you are planning on visiting New York City over spring break, try to see a Broadway/ off-Broadway show, because there are a lot of great ones around. My top three choices are Buddy, a musical about the short-spirited success of Buddy Holly; Six Degrees of Separation, a drama exploring the different connections made with others in contemporary society; and Once On This Island, a bright Carribbean musical/ fairy tale which takes place on a cold and rainy night. Pick up a copy of The New Yorker for more details and other suggestions, or stop by TKTS at Broadway and 45th St. for discounted and last-minute seating. Also, look into exhibits at the Museum of Modern Art and the Metropolitan Museum. (I know that there is a Matisse exhibit currently showing at the Met.) Also on Monday the 11th, the CRS will be airing the People's Choice Awards. I have a little problem with the name of this award. I know that I am a person. I'm pretty sure that most people on this campus are people. Did anyone call me and ask me to vote? Do you know any \People's\ who actually participate in the voting? I thought not. Another Hollywood sham. See Cinema Paradiso instead. Fisher should just stick to acting. But I have a few friends who think she's the beans in this capacity, so it's really up to you. It's fast and fluffy reading, if nothing else. If you like Jean M. Auel's trilogy which begins with The Clan of The Cave Bear, you may want to pick up the fourth one which is still in hardback. I'd like to tell you it's name, but I honestly can't remember it. My mom read it, though, and really liked it. Maybe you can borrow her copy. Weekend Movie In terms of movies (although I'm sure you know what's out I know this may sound totally out of the question, but you might consider a bit of beach reading. For example. someone like John Irving. I recently read A Prayer for Novelist John Irving To Hold Seminar, Read March 19 John Irving. author of the critically acclaimed best selling Novel The World According to Garp (197&), will read from his work on Tuesday, March 19, 1991 at 8:00 pm in Page Hall, 135 Western Avenue on the University at Albany's downtown campus. Earlier that afternoon. at 4 pm in Humanities 354 on the University's uptown campus, Mr. Irving will hold an informal seminar for students, writers and the general public. Both Mr. Irving's seminar and reading, which are free and open to the public, are sponsored by the New York State Writers Institute. Please call the Institute at 442-5620 if planning to attend the seminar. A leading contemporary American novelist, Irving's work is characterized by humor combined with violent and often tragic themes and a sometimes bizarre sense of fantasy. His novels include Setting Free the Bears (1969), The Water-Method Man (1972), The 158-Pound Marriage (1974), The World According to Garp (1978), The Hotel New Hampshire (1981), The Cider House Rules (1985), and his most recent novel, A Prayer for Owen Meany (1989). In addition to his novels, Irving also has contributed short stories to magazine such as Esquire, Playboy and others. The World According to Garp, generally regarded as his finest work, was adapted for film in 19&2. The film starred Robin Williams as Garp, and Mary Beth Hurt, Glenn Close, and John Lithgow. The Hotel New Hampshire was also adapted for film. Irving received his M.F.A. degree from the University of Iowa Writer's Workshop, where he worked under such novelists as Vance Bourjaily and Kurt Vonnegut, Jr. He taught (as assistant professor of English) at Mount Holyoke College from 1967-72, and again from 1975-78, and served as a writer- in-residence at the University of Iowa Writer's Workshop for 1972-75. Three minutes a day is all we ask ... UNITED WAY Well, I'd love to stay and chat, but I've got to read some more Shakespeare, and book my flight to Boca. See you when I'm tan. The Department of the Arts and The Cabaret present starring Marlo Amendola Emily Baer Neil Kantennan Alison Kates Nat Keller Ruth Lerman Dave Lopiano Jonathan May Elanna Pollack Todd VanVoris Thursday, March 14th, at 8:00PM in CC302 (The New Cabaret/Coffeehouse) Free Admission Refreshments will be served ~==· =•==:~ Sibling Rivalry 7, 9, & 11 pm CC March ·Campus Paper~ack.Bestsellers 1. Dances with Wolves, by Mtehael Blake. !Fawcett. $4.95.) CMI War veteran joins 1he SIOUx way of IHe. 2. The Bon6re of the Vanities, by Tom Wolle.jBantam. $4 95.) Lust, greed and the Amencan Y/ay ollrre m the '80s __ _ 3. All 1 Need to Know I Learned From my Cat, by Suzy Becker jWor1<mM. $5.95.) Advlce from a descem1ng_ cat-------- 4. The Russia House, by John le Carre !Bamam. $5.951 The dangerC>Us world of spoes and counterspies. --~ __ 5. The Authoritative Calvin & Hobbes, by Bill Watterson. !Andrews & McMeel, $12.95.) More Calvm & Hobbes cartoons. s: From Beirut to Jerusalem, by Thomas LF;.~;-,;;,.; .. !Anchor. $12.$5.) Account~ the Arab-Israeli stnfe. ____ • __ 7. Misel'f, by S1ephen King (Slgne~ $8.95.) Crazed fan holds author captive. --.:::::::::::::.=.:.=:..::.::=-=-=~-:-::::-:::-:--- ------- - e. Mystery, by Peter Straub (Signet. $5 95 I Compelilr:g mystery set oo a bny Canbbean Island 9. Alii Really~ to Know I Learned In Kindergarten, by Robert Fulghum !Ivy, $5 95) Uncommon though1s on comm~ th1~ 10. Foucault's Pendulum, by Umberto Eco.jBallanbne, $8 95) Esoteric data fed 1rtto an computer produce strange resulls. · .J'Iew·G Recommended · Collected Stories of Waltoee Stegner, by Wallace Stegner. !Penguin. $1 0 95) Stegner has created a remarkahle record of the h1slory and c:ulture of 201h century America and the stones embody some of the best virtues and values to be found tn today s fiction. Mal'f Reilly, by Valerie MartJn !Pocket. $7.95.) The classic Je~I/Hyda melodrama interpreted from a fresh po1n1 of view - that w a young maid fM1g in the Jekyll househOld. Bum Marks, by Sara Parelsky. !Dell, $4.50.) High-energy tale of sleuthing featuring Chicago's own V.I. Warshawski. ASSOQA110Jt OF Al4ERICil.H PU!t..IStERS'tiAT10NA4. ASSOCIAllOO Of COCJ..EG£ S'I'ORS ~· - r

1 1 I I I .l CONCORDIENSIS, March 7, 1991 Page 17 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Things To Consider In Entertainment ItO tfOSCO PES By ZOLA VIRGO: Your tn<>tto is \study bar~ play !lard.\ and you've been doing too much of the second. Buckle down and do some world Lucky day: Sunday. By JULIE MEDOW Arts Editor S incc this is the last article I will be writing this term, I thought I'd talk about a lot of different things, and just see what happens. I'm warning you now. My brain is slightly fried from all of the work I've had, and l'In having trouble expressing myself in complete sentences. Please bear with me first off, if you arc planning on visiting New York City over spring break, try to see a Broadway/ off-Broadway show, because there are a lot of great ones around. My top three choices are Buddy, a musical ahout the short-spititcd success of Buddy Holly; Six: Degrees of Separation, a drama exploring the different connections made with others in contemporary society; and Once On This Island, a bright Carribbean musical/ fairy tale which takes place on a cold and rainy night. Pick up a copy of The New Yorker for more details and other suggestions, or stop by TKTS at Broadway and 45th St. for discounted and last-minute seating. Also, look into exhibits at the Museum of Modern Art and the Metropolitan Museum. (I know that there is a Matisse exhibit currently showing at the Met.) In terms of movies (although I'm sure you know what's out there), I would stick to the mindless and inane for serious spring; break relax.ation. The ffi()vie The Do()rs comes to mind, with King Ra,Jph as a cl()se second. The two top thriUers this week seem to be S leep:ing W itb The Eae my and Sile-nce of The La ml»s. so take someone you want to grab for two hours, and have a ball. But seriously, on Mo!l(!ay, March I 1 in CC 302 (a.k.a. the Cabaret room), one of rny favorite movies OF ALL TIMES is being shown at 9:00. It's entitled Cinema Puadiso, and it won the Academy Award for best foreign film of 1989. It's in Italiaa with English subtitles, but don't get lazy on me. The m()vic is totally worth reading. You may want t<> bring some tissues. Also on Monday the 1 Ith, the CBS will be airing the People's Choice A'Wards. I have a little problem with the name of this award. I know that I am a per~on. I'm pretty sure that m()st people on this campus are people. Did anyone call me and ask. rne to vote? Do you know any \People's\ who actually participate in the voting? I thought not. Another H()llywood sham. See Cinema Paradis.() instead. I lmow this may sound totally <>ut of the question, but you might consider a bit of beach reading. For example. someone like John Irving. I recently read A Prayer for Novelist John Irving To Hold Seminar, Read March 19 John Irving, author of the critically acclaimed best selling Novel The World According to Garp (1978), will read from his work on Tuesday, March 19, 1991 at 8:00 pm in Page Hall, 135 Western A venue on the University at Albany's downtown campus. Earlier that afternoon, at 4 pm in Humanities 354 on the University's uptown campus, Mr. Irving will hold an informal seminar for students, writers and the general public. Both Mr. Irving's seminar and reading, which are free and open to the public, arc sponsored by the New York State Writers Institute. Please call the Institute at 442-5620 if planning to attend the seminar. A leading contemporary American novelist, Irving's work is characterized by humor combined with violent and often tragic themes and a sometimes bizarre sense of fantasy. His novels include Setting Free the Bears (1969), The W,;;ter··Method Man (1972), The 158-Pound M.arriage (1974), The World According to Carp (1978), The Hotel New llampshire (1981), Tke Cider House Rules (1985), and llis most recent novel, A Prayer for Owen Meany (1989). In addition to his n()vels, Irving also has contributed short stories to magazine such as Esquire, Playb<Jy and others. The World According to Garp, generally regarded as his fillcst work, was adapted for filrn in 1982. The film starred R{)bin Williams as Garp, and Mary Beth Hurt, Glenn Close, and Jolm Lithgow. The Hotel New Hampshire was also adapted for film. [rviug received his M.F.A. degree from the University of Iowa Writer's Workshop, where he worked under such novelists as Vance Bourjaily and Kurt V()nnegut, Jr. He taught (as assistant professor of English) at Mount Holyoke College from 1967-72, and again from 1975-7&,and served as a writer- in-residence at tile University of Iowa Writer's Workshop for 1972-75. Three minutes a day is all we ask ... UNITED WAY Owen Meany, and it blew my mind away. Irving is a bit twisted, which you may know from either seeing or reading The World According to Garp. but that's what makes his fiction so cool. By the way; he'll be coming to Albany next week - look at t11c article below for details. Another good author to attack is John Updike, and his Rahbit series. Rabbit at Rest. the most recent and final work in the bunc.;h, is available as a single novel, or as a part of the emirc series. If you are looking for pseudo- trash, you may be interested in Carrie Fisher's pseudo- biographical novels, Postcards From The Ed~c. and S urrcndcr The Pink. Personally, after reading Postcards .... I couldn't help thmking that Carrie Fisher should just stick to acting. But I have a few friends who think she's the beans in this capacity, so it's really up to you. It's fast and fluffy reading, if nothing else. If you like Jean M. Auel's trilogy which begins with The Clan of The Cave Bear, you may want to pick up the fourth one which is still in hardback. I'd like to tell you it's name, but I honestly can't remember it. My mom read it, though, and really liked it. Maybe you can borrow her copy. Well, I'd love to stay and chat, but I've got to read some more Shakespeare, and book my flight to Boca. See you when I'm tan. PISCES: It's time to start planning your futllre. As long as you do something y&u like. happiness will follow. Lucky day: Monday. ARIES: The week ahead will be very interesting f<>r you in terms of social Oll.IJ()rtunities. Try f5> look good when going to the library. Lucky day: Thursday. · TAURUS: Although you have recently had a l(lss. the sorrow will wear off and life will pick up. Look to a oow friend for a change of pace. Lucky day: Friday. LEO: This week has been very turbulent emotionally. Try to relax and enjoy the precious free time you have and put the past behind you. Lu(:ky day: Tuesday. GEMINI: Looking forward to Spring Break and Spring Tenn? I don't blame you-it will prove to be an exciting time. Lucky day: Saturday. CANCER.: You will finally receive word from someone you have been waiting to hear from. The message will be a positi-ve one. Lucky day: Friday. AQUAR.IUS:Seek refuge from people who have been bothering you for the last few weeks. D<>n't worry-. soon you'll get your much-needed vacation. Lucky day: Monday. CAPRICORN: A new business/work proposal will soon come your way. Weigh the scales before deciding. Lucky day: Sunday. SCORPIO: You will receive recognitioo for a j()b well done. Take time to catch your breath, don 1 t stress out. Lucky day: Thursday. SAGGIT ARlUS: You bave almost finished with a grueling . term. Party hard tllb weekend, and pat yourself on the back. Yon deserve it. Lueky day: Friday. . LIBRA: Enjoy yow Spring Break-next term will hand you a great deal of responsibility. With a good outlook you'll be , fine. Lucky day; Wednesday. ~:b::.:,. •:, ' .. ,.:· .. . \'·· Weekend Movie Sibling Rivalry 7, 9, & 11 pm CC •==:~ March The Department of the Arts and The Cabaret present starring Mario Amendola Emily Baer Neil Kanterman Alison Kates Nat Keller Ruth Lerman Dave Lopiano Jonathan May Elanna Pollack Todd VanVoris Thursday, March 14th, at 8:00PM in CC302 (The New Cabaret/Coffeehouse) Free Admission Refreshments will be served 1 Dances with Wolves. by Mochael Bla<e rFawcelt. $4 95 CMI War veteran J(Jtns me So;x lhay of lie 2 The Bonfire of the Vanities. by TOf1' Wolle ,Bantam $4 9~. LuSI. greed and the Amencar way of ole n lhe eo,; 3 All I Need to Know I Learned From my Cat. ro, SCL....., Flf.ckP! (Wooxman $5 90:, 1 Aavoc.> :cyr. a Ql>S(er•Hn.; cat 4 The Russra House. by JOhn oe C.arre (Barta on $.'> q<c The aangerous woMd at sP>eS and counters;:>•€$ 5 The Authontalive Calvin & Hobbes. by Boll Waners..1n !Andrews & McMeel $'2.9? More C<liw> & HDI:Jbe; rartc<>P<. 6 From Beirut to Jerusalem. Oy Thoma. L F n!'d01an :to.nct101. $12 95 J 1\ccount d 1t>e Ara.b-lsrae'• stnfe 7 Mosery, bv Stephen ~\() S>qneL $8 ~ o Crazed far hOlds autnor Coa~JUVe 8 Mystery. 0., Pete• Straut :s.qnet. >.~'l'J .. Corr.oelltng mystery set oo d tlny Cartobear ts.df'f1 9 Alii Really Need to Know I Learned on Kindergarten. Dy Rot>ert I' uognurn llvy. $5 9:0 • Lirt<X\<\mon ltxlug'tts oe commc~ !'1n(!5 10 Foucaulfs Pendulum.I:JI, Umt>eno Ecc ·BallantJne $1' 9o Esotenc aata le<Jonto ar COMputer procluce strange resu:ts · New·& Recommended Collected Stones of Walt~ StEgner. 01 Wa.<ace Sleqne• Pengu1n S 10 95 Slegner haS created a rema~al:>le •ec .)rn ot t\le n:story and cu:n..rE' ol 201n c.er:\'u..JIJ' A..rnenca ard tne stone~ Prnt>Jdy some ol tile t>eSI vortues ar>d ..aJues to be lc\·ld '\ today ' '•cllor> Mary Reilly, Oy Valene Mar11r. tPocket, $7 951 The classiC Jekyll Hyde melodrama onteop<eted !rom a IT r<r ;x.nt ot voew - !hat ol a young maid itwlg on ttoe Jekyll nousehOtd Bum Marks. by Sara Paretsl<)o •Dell.$450! Hogn-energy talt' o1 sleutnmg fpatunng Chocago s own V I WarshawskJ AS.SoC\ATlON CW: .&..lolERICA.N P\J~'ttATlQtuw. r..sscx:tL T'IO'ol OF C'OUlGl SlORfS 0

Page 18 CONCORDIENSJS, March 7, 1991 CAMPUS·- NEWS CLASSIFlEDS CUSTOM PRINTED T- SHIRTS, sweats, jackets, caps for organizations, fraternities, sororities efficien- cy, colll'tesy and low, low price. Call toll free,. Rainbow Industries 1-800-637-7011. TYPING • Norma Segarra, 529 Congress Street, Schenectady, NY 12303. Evenings/weekends only, call any time. 381-6243. Term papers, rnanucripts; theses, lab reports, and resumes. Fees $1.50 double spaced pages. Rush jobs $2.@() double spaced. Resumes $10.00, Cover letter $2.00. Pick-up and delivery. WAKE-N-BAKE! Spring Break '91 in Jamaica/Cancun from $459! A week offun and sun at this year's hotest destinations. Don't be left in the cold.. SUN SPLASH TOURS. 1-800-426-7710. HELP WANTED • Cool, calm, and collected mother's helper; part-time, flex. hrs., cxc. salary and benefits. Large (4 kids) family w/animals looking for a caring person to help out starting ASAP. Please call 399-6993. STUDENTS: Art pertfolios photographed in to 35 rnm slides. For graduate school applications, professional interviews, and personal records. Outstanding quality at reasonable prices. Call Alvin CLUB NEWS RCIA • Sunday, March lOth Alex Chiu '94 a Catechumen will continue the enlighten- ment stage of the Rite for the Christian lnitiation of Adults. The Second Scrutiny will be celebrated at the 7:30 PM Mass. LENTEN PROGRAM Wednesday at 12:30 PM in CC404 Sister Jean will facilitate a Lenten program \Parables and Prayers for Lent.\ These six original stories by Father Edward Hays, director of a contemplative center in Easton, Kansas will touch and challenge you and make the Lenten message come alive in a powerful way. Bring a brown bag lunch. Hot water will be available. All are welcome. Wednesday, March 13th - The Painter. PROMISED LAND Tickets for this musical rendering of the Story of Moses are available for March 14th and March 15th at the reduced rate of $2.50 .through Sister Joan, CC404. CONFIRMATION Classes for Union students are meeting on Fridays in CC404 with Sister Joan from 2:30 to 3:30 PM in preparation for April 18th. March 1991 FOLK GROUP - Singers and musicians interested in being .part of the music ministry at the 7:30 PM Sunday Mass, please meet at 6:30PM in St. John's Church to rehearse. TUTORING Union students who are interested in tutoring please contact Barbara Cash, Box 279, Tel: 386:4181. PERSONALS P- Please leave the kitchen light en so 1 don't have any ttouble fmding the sink! What will happen next as unexpected week continues? Will it be spiffy who comes for dinner? Even Rhonda can't help you now! Liebe Vogelscheuche, Wer computer programme stiehlt oder nachmacht oder gestohlene <Jder nachgemachte in umlauf bringt wird mit telefonvecbot bis zu 48 stunden bestraft Dien Butterdog Skippy- It's great that furlough is over! But when's the next one??? -Mishka Kate, Kate My Favorite Roommate!! Get off that bar you drunken fool! Wait till this weekend - RAGE!! -Love, Eye THIS MONTH AT UNION Sun Mon Tue Wed 3 4 •• 1 Thu Fri Sat , .. CCAud Film: Tho Fr«hman CCAud Aim: Tho Fri!$1man 4:00 Plol CCATRIUM TGIF Current as of \Stran9e Artangemont' 2 2 S 7-JYJ Plol CC406 Spani•h / Club Film: .Skyline 8:00 PM Noll • \Oedipus• 7 :30 PM Arts Dept. 10:00 PM Old Chapel: \Mulliplo Woodwinds\ PARTY·STEPSHOW 8 .. CCAud Film· Tho Freshman 12:30 p~ CC302 5:00 Plol CC205 Newman CCAud Film: Dead Calm I 1 ~AM UCOH CCAud Film: Sibling Rivalry CCAud Aim: Sibling Rivolrr a:OO PM SSOlS WQmen's Speaker Lunch Supper 8;00 PM Nott. 'Oedpus\' Mul11cultural Table 12:45 PM Library Plaza: 6:00PM UCDH Culinary Auditions: • 1 o L•ttle 7:30PM CC406 French 7:30 PM Crosstalk: 7:00PM CC406 Modern Women's Peace 'Vigil Expose: Whole Focds Indians\ Club Film \Deeepticn & Aesoarch\- Language- Festival 4:00 PM Hum 213 8:00PM Nott • \OeOpus• 7:30PM CCATRIUM Opor 8:00PM Hott • 'Oodpu•' 8:00PM CC:l02 Cabaro Philosbphy Colloquia O•scusslon en War a.-oo PU Nott • \Oedpus• 7:30 PM CC302 8:00PM 55016 10 ,, 12 13 14 CCAud Film: Sitf~g Riv~ry 3:45 PM CC302 Prog. Sd 5:00 Plol CC205 Newman CCAud Film: Tho Jungle ·11 :30 AM UCDH 7 :JO PM CC4Q& Geurr.an Supper Bocit. Mulllcu!tural Table Club Film 9;00 PM CC::l02 F\\' Film Sorias 1 7 1 a cCA•d Film: Pacillc Final Exams Helghl• 1 8 Final Exams 9-JYJ PM CC302 Songwrlllng Final Conce-rt 20 Final Exams 24 25 26 27 3:00PM CCARIUM: Talk whh Presldont Hull 8:00 PM CC302 Cabarot-Nlght of - 21 Final Exams Coffeehouse , 5 1 6 CCAud F~m; Pacific CCAud Film: Pac!llc Heighls Heights Classes End 5-JYJ I'M CCATRIUM Concert: Tina Ward !'RaOFOOOI 22 Final Exams 23 Spring Break 30 Spring Break Spring Break Spring Break Spring Break Spring Break Spring Break Spring Break 3 1 March 8:00 Pt.l NoH • 'Ot<lpuo' 9:00 PM Mom. Ch. Night ol E>~r ... lon 4 9:00 PM CC:l02 Free Fam Series 8 8:00 PM Nott • 'Ot<lpuo' PRESENTED BY THE COLLEGE CENTER/STUDENT ACTIVITIES PROGRAMMING BOARD. X6118 Rubes® By Leigh Rubin 'l·Y 3·5 -· --- -· Why .the highly venomous rat·tailed snake became extinct. -- Unfortunately, Edgar, interpreted the law too liter~lly. ~1991 \I'm comin' In after ya, Jed ..• so don't try anything funny.\

CONCORDIENSIS, March 7, 1991 Page 19 CAMPu·s NEWS ==========:: ~ laugh about beer goggling and luck on thesis! PER S 0 N A LS apathy at all levels? Thanks for -Karen D: Pete Cowles - Who is going to make you all of the advice, friendship. and support. I will miss you next term and next :year. Good Climbing up goal posts ... chicken fights .•. people falling ACROSS 1 Huff andpuH 5 Keen 10 Daring 14 Comes belore • MA liE\: Extreme 15 Marge Simpson's husband 16 Territory 17 Lanky 18 __ Lauder 19 Rip 20 BOOSTER + SASH = AUTOPART? 22 LIMB + TRUMPET = CHICKEN? 24 Sandy's word 25 French Parliament 26 It could be your umbrella? 29 Unhappy 30 Erected 34 Larry Bird, eg 35 Chop 36 MR. REINER + MR. ROGERS = COCKTAIL 37 Small:brook: Varlallon 38 EXTINCT+ BASIN \' EXPRESSIONLESS 40 Part ol an hr. 41 SINGLE +PATH= STREET SIGN 43 Employ 44 Kitchen chore 45 Earn 46 Supplemental Sec. Inc. 47 Gets up 48 Adjusllha VCR 50 Err 51 ABODE+ SPRINT= BASEBALL TERM 54 PERIOD +ABSENT= ATHLETIC BREAK 58 Give off 59 Arctic bear 61 Fatigue 62 Ms. Moreno 63 Rub out 64 Away lrom the wind 65 Ambulate 66 Antlers 67 Baseball's Nolan . Weekly Crosswor,d \COMPOUND INTEREST\ By Gerry Frey DOWN 1 Persian __ 2 Ancie11t Arcadian city 3 Basalnll's Musial 4 FASTENER + FORMAL DIUICE =ARCADE GAME 5 Library fixture 6 Party giver 7 Oty. 8 Brougllt In the llsh 9 Smooth feathers 10 SPA+ VESSEL= HOUtE· HOLD FIXTURE 11 Black and white cookie 12 TV's Morman 13 Mend the sock 21 Poet's word 23 African Republic 25 NOTED + DIRT= WOOD RESIDUE 26 Senator Thurman 27 Down East 28 Sicker? 29 Red or Black 31 Ms. La Douce' and others 32 French River 33 British fork parts 35 \ Jude\ 35 Norma or Charlotte 311 Office stamp? 3!1 Greek latter 4Z TELEGRAM + FAUCET = BUG .U YEARN + STICKY LIQUID = BASEBALL TERM 45 Mrs.l11 Maxlco 4T Ledge 4t Word with bowl or man 51J: Fathers 51 Towel word 52 Leave out 53 Pest 54 Chore 55 Greasy 56 Wasia 57 Conslant phone user? 60 Resinous substance 7 - 13 Mar 1991 THIS WEEK AT UNION 8:00 PM Nott - \Oedipus\ ' . Mar 7 - Thursday 11 :30 AM UCDH Multicultural Table 7:00 PM CC406 Modern Language Fes1ival 9:0() PM Old Chapel: Musical Showcase Cabaret Mar a - Friday 12:45 PM Library Plaza: Women's Peace Vigil 4:00 PM Hum 213 Philosophy Colloquia 7:30 PM CC302 Coffeehouse 8:00 PM Nott - \Oedipus\ CCAud Film: Sibli11g Rivalry Mar 9 _ Saturday s:oo PM Nott. \Oedipus\ CCAud Film: Sibli11g R-ivalry 6:00 PM UCDH Culinary Expose: Whole Foods Mar 10 - Sunday CCAud Film: Sibling Rivalry Mar 11 - Monday 3:45PM CC302 Prog. Bd. 7:30 PM CC406 German Club Film Mar 12 - Tuesday 5:00PM CC205 Newman Supper 9:00 PM CC302 Free Film Series 8:00 PM Mem. Ci'l. Takacs String Quartet Mar 13 .. Wednesdays:oo PM Mem. Ch. Takacs string .:.:.::.=.::.._-=-.::::....---::..:...;=;::..:_::..;;:;;..~;;;;.;;..;;:......,_ Quartet 8:00 PM CC302 Songwriting Final Con oert CCAud Film: Th~ Jungle Book PRESENTED BY THE COLLEGE CENTER/STUDENT ACTIVITIES PROGRAMMING BOARD. :X6118 out our wind0w ... water buffalo ... hanging out the window ... broccoli . . . mud football at 1 AM ... three hour snowball fights oaooetc. Jen, Elissa, Ab & Jay- I will miss you guys so much next term! Thanks for all of the fun times and floor bonding. Jay - are you ever going to get us back? I love you guys. -Karen P.S. I still Love BLJffalo!!! Happy Birthday to the new program director at WRUC: Matt \I'm not gonna tell\ Fuller!! Aren't you embarrassed? Love, Guess Who!! Happy 20th Birthday MA'trHEW FULLER 3-'8-91 Love the Wild Things! About last night, what happened? See me, feel me, touch me, meet me at 6:00 -J.M. Dearest Ronald - When are you finally getting SORRY • • • that car??? If you need help just dial 1-900-M022 -STICKS - and ZA are God. Love, Mishk P: Alpha's: Thank you for the song and the flowers. -ITB, the Seniors Congratulations Sig Phi Pledges, keep up the good work. -Sig Love (Yeah Right) Dg Pi Alpha's: Thanks for the bunch. It was awesome. Love, ITB the Sisters D- Congratulations on graduation. We all love you! Love, your Sisters and Pledges \Ty Janney: Y cah, Yeah, Y eab, Whatever - Duh, what I was thinking was that somehow, somewhere, sometime soon I will see you in the Basement\ - The Mighty Scottish Diamond. P.S. CHUG!! Mazow, Miller, Chief, and Smurf: We still fantasize about you. -Delta Chi This is the last Concordiensis Spring. Have a Break ... until the great Spring Campus News Editors . ' '' ' . - . . SUMMER STUDY IN WASHINGTON, DC OVER 600 COURSES! INCLUDING ••• a span of courses that ranges from freshman requirement~ to graduate research. The George Washington University offers a large aiT\.ty of summer courses to give students a chance to initiate, supplement, or accelerate their studies. LOCATION Located near th~ World Bank, International Monetary Fund, State Department, White House, Corcoran Gallery of Art, Kennedy Center, and a multitude of foundations, public agencies, intematiomil Organizations, financial institutions, news bureaus, restaurants, and shops. Nearby Metro stations provide quick access to all areas of the city, including museums, Capitol Hill, tbe Library of Congre>s, and Embassy Row. DATES Five-week Slimmer Session classes begin May 13 and June IS. Time spans for specific courses and special progr.tms may differ. HOUSING Housing is available on and off campus. TO APPLY Write for our Summer Sessions Announcement, containing course listings and procedures for admission and registration. Call (202)994-6360 or mail this coupon to the address below: NAME----------------------------------- ADDR~S----~---------------------------- CITY--------- Mail CCU}xnl to: Office ofStmm~e~· Sessions 1be George Washi71gtotl University 2121 1 Strel!l. MY' Sliile 503 \Vasbingto11, IX 20052 STArE~--- GW ·~ an equal opportun1ty ms.htution ZIP.'---~- .. ......

Page 20 CONCORDIENSIS, March 7, 1991 GOOD NEWS! Library Hours Foreign language news programs will be shown in the Language Lab (HU 010). I am pleased to announce that Schaffer Library's extended study hours for 01e lOth and Final Exam weeks will run from Sunday, March 10, through Thursday,. March 21. All are welcome to attend. Hou.rs; Schedule: MONDAYS, \VED:\ESDAYS & FRIDAYS: Sunday, Mar.lO: Full services, I lam - 11:30 pm Study only, I 1:30pm- 1 am FRENCH 1:30 PM GERMAN 3:00 PM SPAt\l\ISH 4:00PM TT.;ESDAYS & THURSDAYS: HEBREW 1:30 PM CHI~ESE 2:00 PM JA.PA...''IESE 3:00 PM RUSSL-\ .. \1\ 4:00 PM Come o.rzd watch the news! Monday, Mar. 11 through Thursday, Mar.l4: Friday, Mar. 15: Saturday, Mar. 16: Full services, 8 am- 11:30 pm Study only, 11:30pm - 1 am. Full setvices, 8 am - 10 pm Study only, 10 pm- 1 am News programs are also transmitred from many other countries and will be recorded upon request. Faculty are welcome to bon·ow tapes. Ordinarily, rhey are kept in the lab for two weeks. Sunday, Mar. 17: Full services, 9 am - 11 pm Study only, 11 pm- 1 am Full services, 9 am - 11:30pm Study only, 11:30 pm- 1 am For more information, call Carol Snyde1; Language Lab Technician, X6216. Monday, Mar. 18 through Thursday, Mar. 21: LANGUAGE LAB HOURS: Full services, 8 am - 11:30 pm Study only, 11:30 pm- 1 am MONDAY-FRIDAY 8:30AM-4:30PM SUNDAY-THURSDAY 7:00PM-9:00PM rlease note: During the extended study hours (untill am), circulating or reserve materials may not be charged out; nor can reference desk services be offered. Please help us to keep food and drink restricted to the All-Night Study area. Thank you. You are ][mrvitted to JT oin the ~([D fdlu A liD TID. n w <e 11\~&111\ y c ~ n <e llD rr 00 ftii <rD rm ({])if C crD<ecdl nn ~~ ttfi ®Im ml ft '((] rm fi mnm April26 and 27 Friday evening 4-6pm Reception for Senior Honors Thesis Exhibit of paintings and photography by Marie Guariniel1o'91 and 6-8pm 8:00pm 9:30pm Saturday !0:30am ll:OOam 12noon 1:30pm 2:00pm 3:00pm 3:30pm 7:00pm 9:00pm Amy Benusis '91. Arts Atrium. Opening Reception for paintings by Sally Eckhoff '77. College Center Atrium and Strauss Gallery. Welcome by President Roger Hull and Chairman of the Board of Trustees Norton Reamer. Introduction by Barbara Burek '75. Coeducation at Formerly Single Sex: Institutions: The Impact and the Challenge. Keynote address by Paula Brownlee~ former Dean of the Faculty at Union, now President of the Association of American Colleges. College Center Auditorium. Coffee House featuring Marcy Shapiro '73, jazz pianist. College Center 302. Continental Breakfast Coeducation at Union: Where Are We Now and Where Are We Going? A brief introduction by Kathy MuTianey '74, Alamna Trustee, followed by student panelists reporting on current issues in: •Housing at Union- Do Women and Men Have Equal Opportunities? • Women and Men on the Playing Field •Social Life at Union •The Coeducational Oassroorn Oimate: Chilly or Challenging? cinclusion and Diversity: Women of Color at Union Lunch will include recognition of our earliest alumnae and the contributions of alumnae to tlle College. Music by the Garnet Minstrelles and Dutch Pipers. Celebrating Union Women in the Workplace. Kate White '72, alumna and Editor-in-Chief of Working Woman magazine, will speak on \Women in the W or.kplace.\ College Center Auditorium. Alumnae Panels will be held in various rooms of the College Center. Alumnae will be discussing life after Union in their field of endeavor. Open to all students, faculty and staff. •Women in Science and Medicine •Women in Law & Government •Women in Business •Women in Education •Women in Arts & Communication •Balancing Our Lives: Can Women Have It All? •Women in Engineering oRetuming to School: Challenges and Possipilities Open House at the Women's Center. North College. Ou.tdoor Concert African Women, play directed by Marina Bernard '92. College Center Auditorium. Cabaret presents Helena Binder Bress '76. College Center 302. For your enjoyment all day: ·College Center Exhibit of Alumnae: \The Way We Are\ •Exhibition of Paintings by Sally Eckhoff '77, Strauss Gallery, CC30S •Self Portraits by Union Women, 2nd Floor Photography Gallery, Arts Bui1ding •Painting and Photography by Amy Benusis '91 and Maria Guarinello '91, Arts Atrium Jlw~~:r;,<mml! lloo~fifl~<dl Be friendly to your environment. When you're through reading it, recycle this copy of <!Ionlllrhirnsis in the Red Bin nearest you.

1\ I ! ' L CONCOR.DlENSIS, March 7, 1991 Page 21 SPORTS Big Time College Basketball: An Inside Look By ANDY BRAND Marclt Madness is here. No other words can rightfully describe the craziness that tb.e college basketball season becomes once March is upon us. Post-season conference tou:rnaments are the start of this madness. They are a showcase of excitement, thrills, and unpredictability. Upsets become the rule instead of the eKception. Tb.e co11ference tournament winners get the ultimate prize of an invitation to the NCAA tou:rnament. By winning tile conference tournament a team could turn a disappointing season into a memorable one. This is the time where the big name Division I schools take a back seat to the lesser known schools. The conference tournaments that have already started are the Colonial, American Southern, and Missouri Valley tourna- ments, to name a few. While these conferences may not have the name of their more prestigious counterparts, such as the Big East or ACC, they certain! y 11ave as much excitement and great fmisllesin their games. It seemed like every gam~ this past wee.lce11d had a last second shot t() ·eitlJer win it or send the game into overtime. It was last year's NCAA tournament all over again. So, here is a recap ·Of some of the action tbat toC>k place this past weekend. ·in the conference tournaments. The Sun Belt confereace was typical of how the .confere11ce tournaments have been. going in general. In the first roand, the seventh seeded team, Old Dominion, knocked off the second seed, Alabama- Birmingham, in an overtime game. Old Dominion led 1Jy 6- 11 Chris Gatling, an un]m()wn player to most exce:pt NEA scouts, went all the way to tile finals. There they were Leadi!lg top seed South Alabama uDtil the final minutes of the garne. The bu::zer sounded ending tile game and Old Domiaioa's NCAA tournament chances. The Colonial conference :had the most exciting toumrunent so far. The lowest seed, Navy, proved to be more than just a doormat welcoming tC>p seed James Madison into the tournament. The Midsbiprnen took James Madisom into overtime where they ultimately won. The next night the Midshipmen tried to make George Mason their second upset victim. However, Navy lost their magic in the overtiriie period as George Mason. pulled away with the victory. The finals of the townarnent saw the Richmond Spiders defeat George Mason as they !tit a last second game- winnillg shot. The Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference was a tournament of upsets. This conference played their tournament at the Knickerbocker Arena in Albany. The top two seeds, LaSalle and hometown favorite Siena, both lost in the semi- finals in dramatic fashion. St. Peter's Anthony Allen hit a three-point shot with three minutes left in the game to give them a one point lead over LaSalle. They held on to this lead and defeated the top seeded team. Siena sent their game with Iona into overtime after Siena's Tom Huerter hit a 30- footer to tie the game at the end of regulation. Iona's Scan Green. who finished the night with 43 points, proved to be too much for Siena as Iona won in overtime. This set up an Iona-St Peter's showdown for the finals in which St. Peter's was the victor. Six conferences do not receive an automatic bid to the NCAA tournament for their conference winners. These conferences have to play each other in a play-in game for the automatic bid. This allows the NCAA to give out thirty-four at-large bids. Thls means that the top conferences will get four to .six teams into the NCAA tournament. While the top confe:rences do deserve multiple bids to the NCAA tournament~ they do not deserve to sead a team that barely has ab-ove a .500 winning percentage. George- town is a team that many .think might be in the tournament, yet they are only 12-11 against Division I opponents. The NCAA has always prided itself in allowing the lesser known schools to have an equal share with the more renowned schools. But by not allowing some conferences the automaLic bid they are hurting the recruiting and thus, the level of play at those schools. Since this past weekend, everything in college basket- ball IS geared towards the NCAA tournament. Almost half of the automatic berths have all'e.ady been won. By the time the NCAA announces the 64-team field this Sunday. thirty te~s will have already nailed d.o-w11 berths for the tournarnellt. March Madness has only j11st begun. SENIOR PRINTING DAY c:IrUC ROOM, liUM.A.M1'IES BASEMENT ET:ER! 51\TURllAY 1 :12 :O 0-5: I) 0 l?l! Frt=11l'nlntlng on :Ra!nbowl: l\n<:: lmuagewrUt't' eopfes ~PECIAL M TI?.S Cln MfB<:: Lnser Printer for ~tU()i\S ()D Sa tu..-day lO( m pag• $5.:il0 mnxlmum !\\• dmJ Bringing New Freedom of Expression to the College Faculty The IBM Advanced Academic System can free you to do what you do best: impart knowledge to your students. You can mmpose and design yoar own lectures and course materials-even add animation to stimulate interest and understa11ding. You can create imaginative literature fur class or administrative needs with the system's graphics and desktop publishing capabilities .. You can create aJJ interactive environment With the systems Classroom Presentation Option. By means of student response keypads, your class can react to questions or diS()ussion points projected on a screen. From research to classroom ledures, from grading papers to ad- ministrative and nersonaJ tasks, the system can help you be more pro- ductive and creative. II Built-in tutorials and faculty-writtel:l exam- ples free you fum a long learning process. Easily rerogn:izable icons eliminate the need to type comrr.ands. ~ou simply point your mouse to sele-ct and move through. programs. The Adv.uxed Academic System is avail- able with three m()dels of the IBM Personal Sys~m/2®: Mode170 (121), Model 55 SX (()61) and the portable Mollel P7(). (121). Each model comes preloaded with many software programs including Miccrosoft~ Windows TN 3.0 arul Asymetrix Tool- ~~,!,\~ .... .._ ....... Book.T\ Each PSf2® model featur<es a mouse, high-speed processing. large memory and high-capacity sro~. We have listened to the needs of college faculty and the result is a personal computer solution that is footJ.sed on the tasks of higher education. It means new freedom to express your ideas !IJ.ore clearly, more forcefully and . . . . eff~tively. fur infonnation, visit }'OW caDlpUs location or call 1 l!()O 525-4738 for a bi'ClChlll'e. UNION COLLEGE BOOKSTORE college center HOURS MON. - FRI. 8:45 - 4:30SAT. 11:00 • 3:00 TELEPHONE 518 370-6188 FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ~ONTACT CHARLES BOSWORTH Personal System/2 and PS/2 are regtstered trademarks of lnternattonal Busrness Machtnes Corporattoo M•c-osolt •S a 'e.;J•Stere~ traoe-a'' ~· Mtcrosoft CorporatiOn ~windows tS a trademark at Microsoft Corpotat!On TooiBook ts a trademark of As\fl11et\' <:orporatton Thts offer ts avatlaole only to quah fred tnsbtuttons and their faculty. staff and students who purchase IBM PS/2 s tt>tough parl•ctpaung carnous locanons Orders are subJect to avatlabtbty IBM may wtthdraw th•s offer at any ttme wtthout nottce. ®IBM Corporatron 1990 . - ,; ' ,_.t-

Page 22 CONCORDIENSJS, Maorch 7, 1991 <HJlmtrbirnsis SPORTS Indoor Season Ends For Men's Tracksters By GREG BARRETT Last Saturday, the Men's Track Team travelled to Colgate University for the N.Y.S.T. & F.A.C. or, more simply, the state champion- ships. Colgate, although they are Division I, holds lhis meet every year due to their fast track. Eighteen teams competed for the title of State Champions and Albany came out ahead. Union had an impressive day with all of its • 0 athletes peaking and turning out their top performances. In the individual competi- tion, Bob Lindyberg set a new seasonal best and almost racked up a new Indoor PR in the 800m. His 2:01.63 proved a big finish for his indoor career. Will Allen also posted a mark on par with his usual excellent. His 53.42 was a mere 0.04 seconds off of his seasonal best. Jon Rosenfeld had an impressive day completing the 5000m in 16:52.3. Sophomore sensation Bill Taylor made his way to the semi's in the 55m dasb exploding through in a seasonal best of 6.72 (despite being kicked in the head at the start). The big events for the Dutchmen were the relays. The 4 x 800 was the first to go off. The team consisted of Rich Zem bek, Pete Protzel, Mike Emmi and Greg Barrett. Their ·combined time was .~tn 8:46 which was good enough for a tenth place finish. N~xt cut of tlle blocks was the iistance medley relay consistin~ of an 800m, a 400m, a 12Q()tn. and a l600m. Union's team ()f Bac Nguyen, Will Allell, Bob Lindyberg and Jon R()senfeld competed in the resJective legs. Rosenfeld was tlle last to cross the line ending tile relay . with a time of 10:57.~ which sheared over ten seconds off their previous best. The last 1elay was the 4 x 4()0m which is always the most ·thrilling and ends the meet 011 a high note. Bill Taylor, Nguyen, . Lindyberg and Allen sped to an eighth place finish vritb a time <>f 3:32.7. This knock:~dalmost . 4 seconds off of their previous best this season. So the indoor seas()n comes to a close with their ha1d work and commitment paying off when it counts. Thce Dutch- men's banner proved 11lat \Pain is Temporary, but Pride is Forever!\ The Spring ~eason is :right around the corner and the Dutchmen have ()Dl::Y three weeks to prepare for their first <>utdoor meet witll Hamilton. Spring Break will pr(}ve crucial to their training if they plan to meet their goal of delll'()lishing RPr on April 15th. Women's Track 0 • • Continued from page 24 Goldschmidt threw 38'6-1/2\ and placed fourth overall, the highest place for Union at this competitive meet. Senior Meg Parsons placed sixth in the 800 meters in a tough field. Unfortunately, sh.e did not better her 2:22 time from the state meet; hopefully the outdoor season will find her breaking this plateau. The final record setting event was the mile relay. This race was a mixture of euphoria and sadness for the women. The sadness came for the two seniors, Parsons ami Clare Megathlin, who realized their final goals of their i11door track careers. The euphoria was twofold; the team s~t a new school record of 4:11.75 and KILLED Binghamton's weakling little girly-.girl relay team. The team would like to thank Jen Lee, the Ultimate Warrior, the Megatblin's for a great dinner and the guys' team for the banner, oh, tllat's right, that was us. See yo11 in the Spring-- first hollJe meet, Sunday, April 7. TELECOMMUNICATIONS TlPS FOR STUDENTS WHO CALL MEXICO: Beginning Feb. l, 1991, callers dialing area codes 706 and 905 to reath Mexico wilt hea.r a message from AT&T saying that they'll have to use international dialing to comple:te their calls. (See pg. 10 \Dialing Instructions .. in your Intro to IBX, Union College Stude.r.t Telecommunications Service Policy and Procedures Manual. Season Ending Tailspin Leaves Dutchwomen Cagers At 9-15 Courtesy of Sports Information What started out as a very promising season turned out to be a disappointment for the Union College women's basketball team. After 10 games the Dutchwomen boasted a 7-3 record and were riding the crest of a five-game win streak. However. Union won just two of its final 14 games to finish the campaign at 9-15. A 68-59 win over Smith CoUege in Memorial Field House on January l3 gave Union that 7-3 mark and put them in position to post their first winning season since the 10-7 mark of 1984. But. the five-game streak came to an end the following game against Williams, 71-59. and after a 55-51 victory over Skidmore, the Dutchwomen started an eight-game slide at Bingham- ton, 51-55. The only victory in Union's final 12 games would be a 61-31 decision at home against Plattsburgh on February 12. Despite the disappointment of the season, first-year head coach Joanne Little has a lot to look forward to next season. First of all, she does not lose anyone to graduation. Second- ly, the new system she has been teaching all year long will have had a year to settle with her players. Thirdly, she is in the middle of what looks to be a good recruiting year. \Naturally I'm disappointed in the way things turned out,\ said Little who had been at Binghamton prior to joining Union's staff over the .summer. \But I am optimistic in what I saw this year. The women worked hard all season long and didn't let the slump get them down indiv,idually. We put in a lot of new ideas that will be used in the future. This was a learning .p:mcess for both the players and myself. Despite the record, a lot of good things happened that will benefit the team down the road.\ Junior forward Robin Romer heads the list of returners for next season. Romer will go into her final campaign as Union's all-time leading scorer (1,268 points) and rebounder (660). This year she ranked in the top 15 in the country at the Division III level in scoring With her 21.3 scoring average. She also puUed down 9.4 rebounds. Freshman forward Kirsten Dibble gave Union a solid one- two punch up front as she completed a very successful rookie campaign with a 12.3 scoring average and an average of nine rebounds a game. Together Romer and Dibble accounted for 807 points and 443 rebounds. Freshman center Michelle Kleinhans had a solid campaign, averaging three points and five rebounds while juniors Sue Mautner and Wendy Getty provided the Dutchwomen with talented depth up front Next year Union will be looking to get more production out of its guards. Junior swingman Jean Lopata tallied just three p(lints a game, although she did pull down almost five rebounds, while guards, junior J en Hill and freshman Andrea Light averaged seven and five points respectively. Men's Basketball • • • Continued from page 24 three-point shooter. He tallied 206 for his career, meshed 84 dllfing the 1989-90 campaign, and had 10 against Middlebury on January 30, 1990. including eight in a row. Rhodes overcame a career of injuries to put up his best numbers this season. A two- year letter winner, Rhodes began his freshman campaign on the jayvee before moving up to the varsity. A knee injury ended his season after just 11 games. As a sophomore, the 6'4\ 220- pounder tallied 380 points and pulled in 199 rebounds in 25 games. However. he reinjured his knee six games into his junior campaign. This season Rhodes led the squad with 209 boards. was second to Brescia with 321 points, topped the team with. 39 steals and was second with his 77 assists. For his career, Rhodes tallied 753 points (an ll.l average) with 435 rebounds (6.4) in just 68 games. Nestor, a three-year varsity letter winner and two-year starter, played in 76 games during his career. He tallied 684 points (9.0) and 387 rebounds (5.1). A member of the jayvee team as a freshman, Nestor improved his numbers each year. As a sophomore he tallied 199 points with 101 rebunds before scoring 211 points with 131 boards last year. This season he had 274 points and 135 rebounds. Guard Steve Nicolas will also graduate from this year's team. A three-year letter winner, Nicolas provided the Dutchmen with off-court leadership and depth at either backcourt position. He leaves having scored 138 points with 135 assists and 64 rebounds in 60 games. Of the returning members of the team, Steve Evans placed fourth on the scoring chart with 236 points (9.1), was first with 99 assists (3.8), and second to Brescia in three-point shooting (20 of 63). Kenny Evans thrilled the Memorial Field House crowds with some slam dunks that haven't been witnessed in years. Aside from his aerial performances. Evans tallied 207 points (8.6). pulled in 118 rebounds (4.9), and led the squad with a dozen blocks. Chudy finished with 133 points (5.1) and 73 rebounds (2.8) while Winfield netted 120 points (4.6), with 63 assists (2.4). Union opened the year with a six-game win streak that included just the second Capital District Tournament Title in Scanlon's 18-year career. Among the ten losses, two came at the hands of undefeated Hamilton, and one at the hands of Division II LeMoyne. Union, which was the fifth seed in the ECAC Upstate New York Tournament, lost at Ithaca, 92-80, in the opening round Pre-Law Society presents N.Y. State Assemblyman Arnold Proskin Tonite 7:30 CC410

CONCORDIENSIS, March 7, 1991 Page 23 <!rnnntrbitttsts SPORTS Jerry Brescia Becomes 9th Player To Join 1 ,000 Point Club Uy ANDY BRAVER Sports Editor Jerry Brescia, a three-year member of the Union College varsity basketball team, became the ninth member of ,the Dutchmen's 1,000 point club on February 23 in the Dutchmen's 96-71 win over Clarkson. For his great play this past season and throughout ll.is stellar career, Brescia has been selected as the Concordiensis S.ports Athlete of the Week. Brescia, who did not play at all during his freshman year and was a member of the junior varsity as a sophomore, connected on a three-point jumper with 5:28 left in the first half to go over the 1,000 matk. The 6'1\ 190-pound guard from New Hartford, New York ended his outstanding three-year career with 1,050 points in 76 games, an average of 13.8 Jerry Brescia points per game. Brescia also leaves his name in Union's record books as the Dutchmen's all time leading three-point scorer. He holds the mark for most career three- pointers (206), most in a single season (84 set in 1989- 90), most in a game (10 set on January 30, 1990 against Middlebury), and most consecutive (8 set on January 30, 1990). Brescia, who was a football, basketball, and baseball standout for New Hartford High School, is a biology major here at Union. The Dutchmen finished the 1990-91 campaign with a 16- 10 record and qualified for the ECAC Upstate New York Tournament Congratulations on a great career to Jerry Brescia, this week's recipient of the Concordiensis Sports Athlete of the Week Award. Baseball Can Wait By JOHN SCHACHNOVSKY I opened the USA Today to the sports section the other 1norning, as I do every day. I gave the other three sections to a passerby who does not . understand the true meaning of anfolding a USA Today Sports section like it is one of the holy scrolls of daily life. I began reading: the Celtics won again; the Rangers are on another winning streak, and the Sacramento KINGS haven't won a road game since Jimmy Carter was President. I finally get to page four ... this is where the problem arises. II SPRING TRAINING UPDATE.\ Are you kidding me? It's March 3rd, the NHL is coming down the home stretch to the playoffs. Hockey fans are all waiting for that time of tile year when they go through the nightly cardiac arrest. NBA fans are also reaching the pinnacle of their season, when their sport gets the recognition of being on the front page of every sports section across the country. It is the NBA fan's turn to have their sport be the major highlight. Anybody who knows what a basketball is has the words MARCH MADNESS imprinted on their brains, not cactus league baseball. Add to this the college hockey playoffs and the last few Giants fans still celebrating the Super Bowl. What does this equation add up to? It adds up to a time of the sports year when the last thing a sports fan wants to hear is the score of the split- squad Seattle Mariners versus the California Angels' rookie team. Wasn't it just last night that the city of Cincinnati was having a ticker tape parade for their World Series champs? This week's S p or t s Illustrated cover adds fuel to the flre. The cover was not a pre-NHL/NBA playoff talk. It was the L.A. Dodgers. WHO CARES!?!? Don't get me wrong, I love baseball. At this point in the year, however, I want to hear the big contract talks or trades. Not that the Reds need to keep a good pitching staff to keep their repeat hopes alive. The NCAA has not even announced the 64 teams that are lucky enough to be invited to the big dance, and I have to see the USA Today cover story about the Oakland A's. Baseball is supposed to be the cure for hot summer days. It is becoming a runny nose the entire country can't get rid of. Former Schenectady High Sports Standout, And -Union Graduate, Nelson W. Nitchman, Succumbs At Age 82 Nelson \Nels\ W. Nitchman, Union College class of 1930, died Monday evening, March 4, at the Bayview Health Care Center in Waterford, CT. He was 82. . Born December 21, 1908 in Schenectady, Nitchman was a .three-sport standout (football, basketball, and baseball) for ~chenectady High School as well as for Union College. The 1930 graduate was captain of tbe Dutchmen's basketball team While playing guard, was captain as well as a triple threat performer for the Union football squad, and had a career batting average of over .300 while displaying prowess in the outfield for the Garnet's baseball team. He was appointed a physical education instructor at Union in 1931, and he successfully guided the Dutchmen's fortunes in basketball, football, and baseball for the next 10 years as both the freshman and varsity head coach. In 1939 he led the football team to a 7-0- 1 record and had a seven-year record of 21-15-3 at Union. Nitchman left Union College in 1941 to become head football coach at Colby College in Waterville, Maine. In his one season there he gave Colby its first state football championship in 27 years. Nitchman is survived by his widow, the former Jane Ellsworth of Schenectady. On July 19, 1990, they observed their 52nd wedding anniversary. He also has a surviving brother, Dr. Donald E. Nitchman of Scotia. A memorial service will be held for Coach Nitchman at the United States Coast Guard Academy Chapel in New London, Conn., at 4:00 p.m. on Thursday, March 7. There will be no calling hours. Expressions of sympathy. in lieu of flowers, may be made to the Coast Guard Alumni Association for the Nitchman Endowment Fund. Mouthing Off.· BY ANDY BRAVER Sports Editor Farewell ln what may very well be my last installment ·Of Mouthing Off, I feel impelled to write a few words that may fall under the eyes of my faithful readers when I am no more. It is so difficult to perceive life without this column - my life that is. No longer wiH I have to be creative. More importantly though is the fact that the time it took to compose each weekly installment, time that could have been spent doing so many other productive things, will go to waste another way. In short, my Tuesday afternoons will no longer be filled with the trauma and trepidation so regularly felt over the past two and a half years. So in saying my farewell, I think that I should mention two things that really bother me, things about the world of sports that, as of April (well, it's really June, but I'm lazy), I won't have an opportunity to share with such a large audience. The most pressing 'thing' comes from the ice. Why is it that in every single National Hockey League Game, penalties are not called according to th.e infraction committed, but are called according to the time remaining on the clock, or the last penalty that the referee called. Games are won and lost because a ref will not call a penalty in the waning minutes of a game or in overtime because he doesn't want a team or the fans to get mad at him. He lets play get way out of hand, which in effect takes away from the game. If during. say. the first period of a game. the Rangers had two penalties called against them, regardless of whether or not Lhe plays deserved to be called penalties, it would be a safe bet, a very safe bet, to say that the next time an Islander player even thought about tripping a Ranger player, a penalty would he called. My explanation here is very verbose and confusing, but what I am trying to say is this - if a penalty should be called, regardless of the time remaining or the situation of the game, call it. Why have the rules if they are not going to be enforced, or worse yet, enforced according to the referees whim. Last week, I read another thing that really bothered me in Sports Illustrated. Many people, year in and year out, write letters to the editor complaining about the magazine's annual swimsuit issue and how pornographic and obscene it is. In anger, I wrote a letter of my own complaining about the complainers, but I doubt it will he published where I want it published. So I want to print it here, and I'd love any kind of a response. --- To the Editor: I have been an S I subscriber for 14 of my 21 years, and to be honest, I could very well get through the winter months without the swimsuit issue. But in reading some of the 'Letters' in your March 4, 1991 issue, I feel impelled to speak out. Your annual issue has become an institution to many people around the country. All of the cheap swimsuit imitations which have spawned in the past decade bear witness to this fact. Each year, SI readers are presented with tasteful, artistic photographs of beautiful women who are proud of their bodies and content with themselves. If they didn't believe what they were doing was within the realm of good taste, they wouldn't go anywhere near Sports Illustrated or senior editor Jule Campbell. The small minority of readers who each year complain and threaten to cancel their subscriptions must themselves be filled with self-doubt because it is obvious that they cannot accept the fact that some people do not suffer from the same self-pity which ·afflicts them. Personally, I hope the swimsuit issue keeps on coming every year. But in order to appease those few unfortunate readers who would love nothing more than to censure everything with which they disagree, why not tum the swimsuit issue into a magazine of its own. Take the sports articles out, because they inevitably get lost among the plethora of breathtaking photographs anyway. This way, everybody is happy - both the sports fans, and the swimsuit fans. --- I think that this letter says it all. Everything, that is, except thank you. I believe that those people who have read my words of wisdom while I have 'Mouthed Ofr in some 60 installments of this column deserve some kind of congratulations, because even I realize that my humor, wit and cynicism get tiring. Very quickly. But seriously, I hope that this column has brought its readers as much happiness, infonnation, and pleasure as it has brought me for what seemed to be a very long two and a ·half years. I'll miss it. Not today, or even tomorrow. But in a few years, or decades. Good luck, and Let's Go Rangers! .. -. ....

0 ~ :r: c.. w _J u:: !he Men's Lax team wiH try to knock down all opponents in ItS path. The gym will be empty next term as the action heads on back outs·lde. Record Breaking Performances By Women's Track By WOMEN'S TRACK The women's track team finished up a great season with school and personal record breaking performances at the ECAC meet at Bowdoin College last weekend. On Saturday.. night the two mile relay team of Meg Parsons, Rika Poor, Sandy Anselment, and 1'asba LaBarre ran a phenomenal ten seconds faster than at the state meet where they walked away State Champs. In the competitive ECAC field though, the women placed eighth as the new school rec<>rd was set at 9 minutes, 54 seconds. Also on Saturday night, sophomore Lori Simkins threw a personal best in the weight improving her mark by three feet! Junior Alix Goldschmidt also threw well, tossing 38' 5· 1/2\. Another personal record was established by junior Denise Saunders who ran the 55 meters in 7.65 seconds in her heat of the semi-finals. With that time Saunders, who was seeded 13th coming into the event, went on to the finals and placed fifth overall. On Sunday the 500 meters was, as at the CTC meet two weeks ago, the double record breaking event. In the third heat of the race, sophomore Tasha LaBarre broke the new school record time running 1:30.07. In the following heat junior Ri.ka Poor lowered the record time to 1:19.82. On Sunday, shotput goddess Continued on page 22 Dutchmen Cagers Finish At 16-10 Courtesy Of SPORTS INFORMATION The men's basketball team at Union College finished a solid year with an overall record of 16-10. The Dutchmen also received a bid to the ECAC Upstate New York Tournament, the ninth time in head coach Bill Scanlon's 18- year career that Union has been invited to postseason. While Union will be graduating three senior starters, guard Jerry Brescia, forward Elgin Rhodes and captain, forward Alex. Nestor, the Dutchmen l>uilt a solid foundation with. a group of young players who saw considerable playing time. Freshman point guard Steve Evans and classmate, forward Kenny Evans were both starters. Freshman guard Luther Winfield and. sophomore forward Brendan Chudy were the first players off of the bench at their position. Freshman swingman Greg Quirolo saw quality playing time off of the bench and proved he can hit from three- point range (16 of 40) while sophomore forward Eric Whitelely, who is 6'7\ showed a great deal of improvement after playing on the jayvee team a year ago. Meanwhile, 6'5\ forward Greg Dolan, who missed the entire campaign because of surgery during the off season, is expected to be back next year. As a freshmam, Dolan was the team's second-leading scorer (232 )JOints) and leading rebounder (162) and was voted Union's \Outstanding Male Freshman Athlete\ by the athletic department. While the future looks bright for Dutchman basketball, Union is certainly going to miss the services <>f its graduating class. Brescia, who did not play at all as a freshman and was a member of the jayvee team as a sophomore, tallied 1,050 points in his three-year career,, which covered 76 games. He leaves as Union's all-time Contin11ed on page 22 March 7, 1991 Offens·ive Attack Key To Union Lax Season; Dutchmen Look To Retain Capital Cup Courtesy of SPORTS INFORMATION Senior attackman J<>hn Keller, Union's three-time leading scorer and two-time honorable mention All- American, leads an attack that has the Dutchmen aiming towards their sixth consecutive Capital C11p championship and their third-straight ECAC invitation. Keller, who was selected as an honorable mention All- Americall each of the last two years, sc()red 29 goals and 37 points as a freshman, 42 goals and 22 assists as a sophomore, and 37 goals and 68 points last year. He paces an attack that fourth-year head coach Chuck Priore feels is as good as any in Division III. \We :IJ.ave four qnality attackmen,\ said Priore. \The talents of Nate, Alan, and Tim will make John that much more effective. Our opponents aren't going to be able to double team any one of our attackme11.\ Nate Fitch tallied 33 goals and 52 points as a rookie last year while Alan Fleischer, a three-year letter winner, had 12 goals last season despite missing the final five games with a shoulder injury. As a sophom()re, he scored 13 goals. Tim Fish.er lettered last year as a freshman after scoring 21 points 011 11 goals and 10 assists. 'Ten of Fisher's goals came in tile last five games of the season when he took over as a starter for Fletcher. \There is no question that our strength lies in our ability to score, •• said Priore. 'This is the best scoring combination that we've had since I've been here.\ Aside from Union's ability to produce points, Priore points to the Dutchmen's excellent team speed. \We've got team speed from top to b<>ttom,\ he said. \We have athletic ability throughout the line11p, and we've g()t solid depth at most positions. Union's midfield is an seniors Dennis Baldwin and Scott Daniels as well as juniors Gene Ray and Scott Whitney. The unit will be further bolstered by the presence of junior John Bang, a transfer from Hofstra. Bang played two seasons for the Flying Dutchmen. Baldwin and Daniels each scored six goals last year while Ray, who came on strong near the end of the campaign, tallied four. Whitney had a goal and an assist and was a key to the transition game. \This is probably the most consistent group on the team,\ explained Priore. \I'm looking for big things from our midfield\ While Priore feels that his defensive players are among the most athletically talented on the squad, they are also the most inexperienced. Junior Will Winship is the only returning starter from last year's 8-5 team. Sophomore Jon Lucy saw considerable action last season, especially late in the year. Sophomore Greg Plamer also saw a good amount of playing time, although n<>t enough to earn a varsity letter. Sophomore Brian Harris, a transfer from Hofstra, is expected to see plenty of playing time as will freshman Eric Skulte. \We've got six scrimmages set for preseason and we'll spend a good deal of that time preparing the defense for the season. I think these guys have a lot of potential, they just need some playing time together.\ While the defensive backfield is green, the defensive midfield is loaded with experience. Senior captain Pat Lawson is a three-year starter and one of the quickest players on the squad. Junior Mike Richardson is a two-year starter and classmate Dennis Foley played a good deal last season. \These guys will bring experience and leadership to the defense,\ said Priore. \Athletically we are outstanding defensively.\ In goal, Priore will split time between senior Brian Lucey and sophomore Will VanOrder. Last season VanOrder posted a 6-S record with 114 goals allowed and 150 saves while Lucey posted a 2-0 record with 39 saves and 26 goals allowed. \Both will play,\ said Priore. \We really don't have a starter and a backup. They each picked up a great deal of experience last season and both of them have the talent to be quality goalies.\ . Ask Priore about his and th.e team's goals and he'll explain, \I'd like us to improve tile quality of lacrosse within tile team. I'd like to see us close the gap between Union and the better teams on our schedule, and I'd like to see us play better defensively. if The Dutchmen would also like to retain the Capital Cup, the symbol of the best team in the area. Union has won 'The Cup every year since its inception in 1986. The Cup, which includes play between Union , RPI, Albany, and Siena, will also include Skidmore for the first time. Union's other goal is to qualify for the Upstate New York ECAC Tournament, something the Dutchmen have accomplished each of the last two years. In 1989, the Dutchmen lost in the first round to eventual champion Clarkson, 8-6. Last year they dropped a first-round decision to Nazareth. Prior to 19&9, Union had not qualified for the \ECACevent since 1974. Included on this year's very competitive schedule are ECAC playoff team Potsdam, Division I Colgate, and perennial powers Williams, Springfield, and St. Lawrence. Support Union Sports

