Founded Vol. CXX, No. 12 Schenectady, New York New Housing Re,commen,dations Union Among National Review's Top Fifty Made By S.A.C. Dy STEPHANIE FRAY Amidst the ongoing confusion surr<>unding the interpretation of the 1991 Residence Requirement and Lottery Guidelines, a recommendation is being made on behalf of the Student Affairs Council to grant the Gamma Phi Beta Sorority housing in the 1991-92 school year. The proposal to give Gamma Phi Beta a house, initiated by Dean of Students Joseph L. Mammola last spring, passed under secret ballot, by an overwhelming majority of 6-2 with one abstention, at a meeting of the SAC last Thursday, January 31. Prior to the vote, over one hour and fifteen minutes of _ unresolved debate took place regarding the future of the Union College residence guidelines. The issue has been unsettled since last fall when the Board of Trustees affirmed the college policy that all students must live on campus providing space is available. At present, it is clear that all freshmen, sophomores, and juniors will be required to live in campus housing· during the upcoming school year. However, it remains uncertain as to whether the college will follow a rigid interpretation of this policy whereby seniors will be forced to reside off campus or if a more liberal policy will be pursued in which some type of exchange system will be set up between juniors and seniors. Although the goal of the Residence Life Office is presumably to fill the spaces that are noticeably apparent in college housing this year, it would appear that the institution's plan to adopt new residence criteria could ultimately acid to the list of inequities at Union College as set forth by tbe Middle States Reports last fall. During a hypothetical discussion amongst committee members, Dean Mammola proposed that all sophomores and juniors who are bonafide members of Greek organizations be expected to live in their respective college owned Greek. houses. Furthermore, he stated that as the primary obligation of each Greek organization is to fill its house. if sophomore and junior Greek residents cannot meet their respective house quotas, seniors will have to fill the additional spaces. Marcy Wein, a member of the Student Affairs Council, pointed out that adopting that type of policy would · discriminate against independent seniors because Greek seniors would have a privilege that the others would Continued on page 3 By ANDREW SEEWALD Editor-in-Chief A recent ranking of America's top schools placed Union in a class higher than such traditional ,elites as Harvard, Yale, and Stanford. The National Review's 1991 college guide cites Union's \sound curriculum and top-notch teaching\ as the primary reasons for its excellence. The high regard by the magazine might be greeted with mixed reactions when given a further look, though. The National Review is a notoriously conservative publication and much of the praise it heaped on Union appears to emanate from the college's congruity with its subjective criteria. As the Review sorted out The War: An Inside View By DORON ABRAHAMI Since the onset of the current affairs in the Middle East started in the summer of 1990 many friends and acquaintances h~ve asked me my opinion of the situation as it stands, at whatever stage, and they have inquired as to how I feel it might develop. Because I lived in Israel and served in the recon division of the Givati Brigade, Israel's elite marine brigade, trained to fight in exactly the conditions of the current war, and actually saw a good deal of \action\ in Southern Lebanon, many of my peers thillk I am some sort of demi-expert on the subject of politics in the Middle East. Simply put, they are wrong. I don't know quite as much as the so- called experts that appear on CNN, and I don't know nearly as much as real experts. To understand ~e affairs in th~ M~ddle East one must study the history of the reg1on and the h1stones of the multitudes of peoples that inhabit the said region. For every historical development one must read a book by an Israeli, a book by a Palestinian, a book by an Arab from the region and a book by a westerner, preferably one that claims involvement in the Foreign Mfairs Office of any major Western power. In sho:t4to predict or even understand the occurrences in the Middle East, take Professor Stephen Berk's classes and pay attention. Continued on page 8 the nation's top schools, it used me following criteria: the quality and availability of the faculty; the quality of the curriculum, especially with attention to a core of required courses; and the quality of the intellectual environment. Technical schools, such as M.l.1'., Cal Tech, and West Point were excluded from consideration because to the Review. \ ... it seems clear we educ2te too many technicians and too few citizens.\ The Ivy Leag11e schools, traditionally at or near the top of most such rankiags. were deemed by the magazine to have too many teaching assistants and too few requjred courses in traditional western civilization to merit spots among the top 50. Also conspicuously absent from the list were such schools as Amb.erst, which topped the list of small liberal arts colleges in U.S~ News & World Rep~rt's ranking last fall, and othe1· highly selective schools sucb. as Haverford, Williams, and Middlebury. The Review's criteria and the programs offered by Union were a near-perfect fit. In the description of an ideal core curricula, the magazine may as well have used the Gen Ed sequences, now in their second year of implementation, as the standard by which all liberal arts cores should be judged. The ancient history, European history, and American history sequences are described as the sort of grounding that the Review believes many schools have gotten away from. Before Gen Ed. Union had a \liberal learning\ requirement, which is still in effect for the Classes of 1991 and 1992. Tile Review described Union's faculty as \quite accessible\ and its classes \small.\ It also lauded the fact that full professors are often Continued on page 3 February 7, 1991 Nourse To Retire This Spring By KAREN HURWITZ Union's present Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid, Kenneth Nourse, will complete his last year here at Union this spring. Nourse has been the dean of admissions since 1 cnq. Nourse, a college administrator for more than 30 years, served as the assistant director of admissions at Clarkson College from 1953- 1957, and then spent a year as the admissions director at the Rochester Institute of Technology. In 1958, he Dean Nourse returned to Clarkson as dire{:tor of admissi()ns. From 1965- 1974, Noarse worked at Worcester Pol ytec hn ic Institute, again serving in the position of dean of admissions. Nourse came to Union from 1 Middlebury College (from which he graduat('d in 195 2), where he served as director of alumni relations. At Union, Dean Nourse has played an integral role in shaping tl!c present student body while maintaining Coatinued on page 4 In This Issue: Williamstown -Page 8 WRUC Record Reviews -Page 16 Ments & Women's Swim Teams Excel -Page 24

i ,• 1877 V ot CXX, No. 12 Schenectady, New York New Housing Re·commendations Made Union Among National Review's Top Fifty By S.A.C. By STEPHANIE FRAY Amidst the ongoing confusion surrounding the interpretation of the 1991 Residence Requirement and Lottery Guidelines, a recommendation is being made on behalf of the Student Affairs Council to grant the Gamma Phi Beta Sorority housing in the 1991-92 school year. The proposal to give Gamma Phi Beta a house, initiated by Dean of Students Joseph L. Mammola last spring, passed under secret ballot, by an overwhelming majority of 6-2 with one abstention, at a meeting of the SAC last Thursday, January 31. Prior to the vote, over one hour and fifteen minutes of . unresolved debate took place regarding the future of the Union College residence guidelines. The issue has been unsettled since last fall when the Board of Trustees affirmed the college policy that all students must live on campus providing space is available. At present, it is clear that all freshmen, sophomores, and juniors will be required to live in campus housing during the upcoming school year. However, it remains uncertain as to whether the college will follow a rigid interpretation of this policy whereby seniors will be forced to reside off campus or if a more liberal policy will be pursued in which some type of ex.change system will be set up between juniors and seniors. Although the goal of the Residence Life Office is presumably to fill tne spaces that are noticeably apparent in college housing this year, it would appear that the institution's plan to adopt new residence criteria could ultimately add to the list of inequities at Union College as set forth by the Middle States Reports last fall. During a hypothetical discussion amongst committee members, Dean Mammola proposed that all sophomores and juniors who are bonafide members of Greek organizations be expected to live in their respective college owned Greek houses. Furthermore, he stated that as the primary obligation of each Greek organization is to fill its house~ if sophomore and junior Greek residents cannot meet their respective house quotas, seniors will have to fill the additional spaces. Marcy Wein, a member of the Student Affairs Council, pointed out that adopting that type of policy would discriminate against independent seniors because Greek seniors would have a privilege that the others would Continued on page 3 The War: By ANDREW SEEWALD Editor-in-Chief A recent ranking of America's top schools placed Union in a class higher than such traditional elites as Harvard, Yale, and Stanford. The National Review's 1991 college guide cites Union's \sound curriculum and top-notch teaching\ as the primary reasons for its excellence. The high regard by the magazine might be greeted with mixed reactions when given a further look, though. The National Review is a notoriously conservative publication and much of the praise it heaped on Union appears to emanate from the college's congruity with its subjective criteria. As the Review sorted out An Inside View By DORON ABRAHAM! Since the onset of the current affairs in the Middle East started in the summer of 1990 many friends and acquaintances have asked me my opinion of the situation as it stands, at whatever stage, and they have inquired as to how I feel it might develop. Because I lived in Israel and served in the recon division of the Givati Brigade, Israel's elite marine brigade, trained to fight in exactly the conditions of the current war, and actually saw a good deal of \action\ in Southern Lebanon, many of my peers think I am some sort of demi-expert on the subject of politics in the Middle East. Simply put, they are wrong. I don't know quite as much as the so- called experts that appear on CNN, and I don't know nearly as much as real experts. To understand ~e affairs in th~ Mi.ddle East one must study the history of the regiOn and the histones of the multitudes of peoples that inhabit the said region. For every historical development one must read a book by an Israeli, a book by a Palestinian, a book by an Arab from the region and a book by a westerner, preferably one that claims involvement in the Foreign Affairs Office of any major Western power. In short. to predict or even understand the occWTences in the Middle East, take Professor Stephen Berk's classes and pay attention. Continued on page 8 the nation's top schools, it used the following criteria: the quality and availability of the faculty; the quality of the curriculum, especially with attention to a core of required courses; and the quality of the intellectual environment. Technical schools, such as M.I.T., Cal Tech, and West Point were excluded from consideration because to the Review. \ ... it seems clear we educate too many technicians and too few citizens.\ The Ivy League schools, traditionally at or near the top of most such rankings, were deemed by the magazine to have too many teaching assistants and too few required courses in traditional western civilization to merit spots among the top 50. Also conspicuously absent from the list were such schools as Amherst, which topped the list of small liberal arts colleges in U.S. News & World Report's ranking last fall, and other highly selective schools such as Haverford, Williams, and Middlebury. The Review's criteria and the programs offered by Union were a near-perfect fit. In the description of an ideal core curricula, the magazine may as well have used the Gen Ed sequences, now in their second year of implementation, as the standard by which all liberal arts cores should be judged. The ancient history, European history, and American history sequences are described as the sort of grounding that the Review believes many schools have gotten away from. Before Gen Ed. Union had a \liberal learning\ requirement, which is still in effect for the Classes of 1991 and 1992. The Review described Union's faculty as \quite accessible\ and its classes \small.\ It also lauded the fact that full professors are often Continued on page 3 February 7, 1991 Nourse To Retire This Spring By KAREN HURWITZ Union's present Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid, Kenneth Nourse, will complete his last year here at Union this . spring. Nourse has been the dean of admissions since 1979. Nourse, a college administrator for more than 30 years, served as the assistant director of admissions at Clarkson College from 1953- 1957, and then spent a year as the admissions director at the Rochester Institute of Technology. In 1958, he Dean Nourse returned to Clarkson as director of admissions. From 1965- 1974, Nourse worked at Worcester Polytechnic Institute, again serving in the position of dean of admissions. Nourse came to Union from 1 Middlebury College (from which he graduatf'd in 1952), where he served as director of alumni relations. At Union, Dean Nourse has played an integral role in shaping the present student body while maintammg Continued on page 4 In This Issue: Williamstown -Page 8 WRUC Record Reviews -Page 16 Men's & Women's Swim Teams Excel -Page 24 I '' '

Page 2 CONCORDJENSIS, February 7, 1991 OJnnrorhtrttsis NEWS ANALYSIS A Burning uestion By JIM POLITES Political and philosophical controversy, in the form of Congressional bickering and lobbying, has abounded over the past seven years concerning desecration of the American flag, and the historic effect this issue could exert on our Constitution. This heated dispute has resulted in a bipartisan split of Americans, some of whom appear as ultra-patriots and others who fear a revision of our sacred First Amendment. The interesting point to note here is that flag burning has bridged an otherwise insep- arable gap between United States far right wingers and liberals, though each's passion is very distinctly rooted. Staunch conservatives take a tniditional stance that lends enormous emphasis to our country's forefathers and history-they see no reason to tamper with the Bill of Rights, and will battle endlessly to keep the status quo. Left wing sympathizers feel that desecration of Old Glory is a natural extension of guaranteed rights of free speech and expression-the backbone of our democratic system. Stringent debate on this subject surfaced following the arrest of Gregory Lee Johnson, who on August 22, 1984 set fire to the American flag during the Republican National Convention in Dallas. By damaging a sacred object with the knowledge that his actions would offend someone else-. the interpretation of an obscure Texas statute entitled 'Desecration of Venerated Object'-Johnson was penalized $2,000 and given a one year prison term. From here, an ideological storm has emerged, highlighted by a fiery, passionate struggle that lends itself to moral judgement by the masses of this nation. It must be remembered that the United States' creed is predicated on the fact that we allow citizens in this country the utmost liberty to voice a distinct opinion. Such is the make-up of a democratic society, unique and distinct in promoting radical views that may stray from conventional thought. · To appease the patriotic individuals who seek Constitutional ratification as the ultimate goal in their q1:1est, though, would be wrong and unjust. Infringing on the principles that llave been instrumental in the evolution of our nation's system would run in direct opposition to the rights, persoqal autonomy, and liberties that the American flag represents. In this situation, there must be a distinction made between Become An Activist By JON KELLER For those of you who are interested in politics, for all intents and purposes there is only one political awareness group on the Union College campus. Students For Political Awareness and Action, commonly known as SPAA, is a non-partisan organization which offers its members the opportunity to involve them- selves in events which are taking place at the local, national and international levels. Students holding any and all political views are welcome, as our main goal is to bring objective information concerning the major issues of our day 1o the attention of the Union College community, in a balanced and non-partisan manner. Although SPAA's members undertake many projects as a group, such as the poll concerning the Gulf w~. the organization is currently subdivided into three committees, foreign policy, homelessness and the environment. Upon joining SPAA, members choose one of these areas on which to focus the majority of their attention. So, if you have an ideas concerning the sponsoring of events from which the campus would benefit, or if you know of any issues which should be brought to the attention of our community, or if you just want to get involved, then there is definitely a place for you in the organization. 011e of the events we plan to spor1sor in March will be 1960's week. Its purpose will be to take a serious and non- biased look at that era in American history. We are plan11ing a forum discussion, wbich will include professors who will speak about the good and bad aspects of the protest movements, the literature of the period, and several other topics, including the Vietnam War. SPAA's committee on homelessness will be working on several projects as well. Working in conjunction with the YWCA, they will be the ideologies that people cultivate a.n<l the personal feelings that invariably run amiss when such a sacred object is debated with high passion. Many of tJS may see the act of flag desecration as abhorrent and disgusting~ we perceive it as offensive and a personal shot at our belief in this country. By the same token, if we are to live up to tile true meaning of the American flag, it is our duty to recog11ize these people as individuals who deserve the same freedom to act as aHyone else, regardless of personal qualms. Of course, this type of domestic phi:!()sophical bicker- ing must take a back seat to the cruel re11Jities and global horrors we are 11ow enduring. While it may seem inappropriate at this time to digress from the peril and conflict of war in the Persian Gulf, let us remember that the helping t1> repaint rooms on the third fl<>or of the YWCA building, in order to prepare them so that people can eventually live in them. They will also be <>ffering people opportunities to serve food to the homeless at the Schenectady City ·Mission. · SPAA ca.n give you an opportunit)' to accomplish a Jot if yon JlUt a lot into it. Further, members stand to learn a lot fr()m each other, as American men and women fighting overseas are there because they believe ,in all the vital essence and freedom our flag gloriously represents. These are the people who deserve our attention and admiration, ,especially now. For we owe them .so much more than simply hollow declarations of praise and detached feelings of sympathy. They battle under the banner of the United States of America-represented by thirteen red and wh~te stripes and fifty stars backdropped by a blue field. · It is our country's ultimate symbol-so immense in spirit that no match, flame, nor individual could ever hope to physically degrade. In all respects, Old Glory is larger than life itself-waving triumphantly above any tainted efforts to ground its ernbracive spirit. the forum discussions and debates are highly informative and very often controversial. So, why not try it out? Find out if SPAA has anything to offer you. Meetings are held on Mondays at 7 o'clock, in room 205 of the College Center. Also, if you have any questions at all, don't hesitate to call either of the committee's co-chairmen, Jon Keller, at 382-9147, or Jen Holmes, at 377-3588 SAVE THE WILDLIFE WORLD WILDLIFE FEDERATION ; \

CONCORDIENSIS, February 7, 1991 Page 3 ,Gene Ed. Stands Union In Good Stead Gender Bias In Sports Under Fire Republican Leader Speaks At Union politics. His views on education, culture and politics have appeared in newspapers By STEPHANIE FRAY As. the twentieth anniversary Continued from page 1 of coeducation at Union found in freshman classes. The , College approaches, it is one reservation that it had increasingly apparent that about the faculty is that they women athletes are still not sometimes emphasize research ' satisfied with their place in the too heavily, and the author · college's athletic program. cautions Union to be aware A fairly large group of that its strength does not lie in . Union College females aired its research. gripes ranging from funding to Beyond Gcn Ed and the · publicity in front of a panel accessibility of the Union · comprised of Mary Hayes, faculty, the Review cited the · Class of 1992; Craig Ferrero, positive intellectual Class of 1992; Associate atmosphere. Professor of Sociology Martha The magazine admitted . Huggins; and Director of political bias in its rankings. Athletics Richard Sakala at a \We're confident we have not • • session· of Crosstalk entitled included any schools that do \Gender and Sports\ on January not belong on a conservative's 30. recommended list,\ it wrote. Mary Hayes, representing all The schools that made the list women athletes at Union, are ones that \have not addressed a slough of problems subverted justice in pursuit of · on behalf of her peers. It was equality - whatever that · clear that the general consensus means.\ among the women athletes was The implication of the and continues to be that they statement on equality is that .are not given enough priority some of the reasons why on this campus. Union made the list might be Another panelist, Craig the same sorts of things that Ferrero, a hockey and basebal'l President Hull is trying to player at Union, agreed that change about the college. hockey and football, two of the The Review frowned upon men's athletic programs at colleges that emphasized . Union, are both - given studies with a non-Eurocentric preferential treatment over perspective. The magazine also other sports. However, he . wrote that such innovations as argued · that \hockey and \feminist studies, black studies football [which he considers to and affirmative action, and gay be priority sports in terms of rights and 'sensitivity' rules,\ their funding and coaches] are political developments over could not be as successful as the last 20 years that have : they have been if they were not contributed to the deterioration treated like top notch of intellectual life at many of programs.\ America's colleges and Acgordingly, Ferrero deemed universities. President Hull's decision to go 1/26,'~1 1128191 - 1/29/91 1129/91 1/2~/91 l/30/91 1/30/91 1/30191 1/31/51 2;0!1'11 2/01191 2102/91 2/02/91 2i02ni 2/03/91 2/03/'ll 2/03/91 21~3131 2103191 Reported Security Incidents 1: >6 AH l'l011 HEMO~ if.L 1:41 A~ ~i!YHuND HOUSE 12:24 Pll NORTH COLLEGE 1:20 Pll EDWARDS HOUSE 8:0(1 p~ ALUHNI 6Yft 5:26 AM RkYHONu HOUSE I :49 PH Hl t.KO~ PARKING LOT 8:2S PH OFF CA~PUS 2:17 iiH liESi COLLEGE 11:30 AM WESi COLLEGE ll:Ov F'\ COLLEuE CEhTER i :4: A~ U NITE STUui a: 34 p•· .. h(•HH f0LLE6E 11:39 fH BUTTEIIFIELD !~:% AH B•ON~EP HCU:E 3:3e A~ pQriEP PA~~I~G LOT a: c(· A~ NE>: EN!Ri 6A1E 1~:25 PH ALU\~I 6YK 3:~~ pe, MV luSiJN ~OU3o Pray for tlie safe return of a{{ tlios e in tlie Persian {julf YAIIJHISK TO HOL•SEKEEPIN6 LOCKER ftALIC!OUS FIRE ALARM STOP.K WINDOW S~uKEN FIRE EXTINGUISHER DISCHARGED COAT RE?D~TED KISSING WINDO~ VANDALIZED THEFl OF VEH!tLE P~RTS PROPERTY DA~AGE ACCIDE~T ASSAULT ON STUDENT REPD>TED SIUDE~T ASS~U~TEO BY ANOTHEf S!UOENi Hi~5IH6 AV EQUIPMENT Jk~KET REPOPTEv STOLEN HA>M5S:Nu FNO~E CALLS REPO>iE& LIGHT POLE VA~~~~LI ZED ROO\K::TE DISPUTE VEHICLE NINDOWSH!ELD Vf%NMLIZED !NiOIJCATED DU.ER PEPOn~ ON CAH;iJS UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY TO EGUIPME~T CAGE TRESPASSEP.S ADVISED orr CAHFliS Division I Hockey a good one in that Union will now be placed in the same division as .the Ivy League schools. He felt that the decision would not have been made if it would not help both the team and the school in the long run. Hayes complained that no woman head coach has a full- time assistant and that four women head coaches are in charge of two sports each. In response to this assertion, Ferrero stated that his head baseball coach also serves as the assistant football coach. Hayes pointed to publicity as a problem area as well. Women in the audience agreed that WRUC has neglected to broadcast women's athletic events and that C oncordiensis tends to focus on men's sports for its articles. Professor Huggins added that there are inequities within the booklet comprised of advertisements and photos of both men's and women's sport teams. She claimed that the women were allocated 10 pages Continued on page 4 By SREEDHAR SAMUDRALA Dr. Herb London, who ran for New York State governor on the Conservative ticket this past November, spoke to Union College students at last Dr. Herb London Thursday's Minerva Hour. His speech was entitled, \The Future of the New York State Republican Party\. London, who is a history professor at New York University, is a well-known social critic and a strong supporter of right-wing such as the New York T i m e s and The W a II Street Journal. London is also the author of 13 books including the book, Why Are They Lying to Our Cb.ildren?. He is the creator of the 47-part CBS series entitled, \The American Character\. London is Director of National Security Education at the National Struegy Information Center, and the chairman of the National Association of Scholars. In his speech, London detailed New York's finuncial prdblc1n. In the last eight years under Mario Cuomo's administration, expenditures increased 100% while ioDation totaled 40%. London said that if one considered the state's $53 biHion accumulated debt, \the New York State budget should be in Chapter 11.\ He blames the state's large and inefficient bureaucratic system on the past Democratic administrations. he claims many state jobs are superfluous and can be Continued on page 4 Hou'sing Policy Reviewed Continued from page 1 not. In resp.onse to this scenario, Mammola stated, \I don't know if the whole policy should be held hostage because it favors Greek seniors over independent ones.\ Mammola then illustrated a scenario in which no seniors would be able to live on campus at all. In this case, opposition was raised by Brendan Clifford who pointed out that many officers of Greek organizations are seniors and that the actual by-laws of the fraternity or sorority require that their members holding certain positions must live in the house. Barbara Boyer, Associate Professor of Biology present at the Student Affairs Council, expressed concerns dealing with the wording of the present draft of the 1991 Residence Requirement Lottery Guidelines. In its present form, the policy calls for an exchange system in which \any senior wishing to reside on campus may replace a junior in the lottery or in a fraternity or sorority from filling the house.\ She pointed out that not only would the institution of this policy \systematically \\'~'mi+<~\'l'f to reside in .a fraternity or sorority. All other f'''t:\riliiihe,ctNi~!t<s6~1ho:mttrt·rs·· · al'ltl 'fUI'I1or~· wm bet\issa~ tottery ,.,!'l,\'\<~ duflng the up~oomtfig spring .lottery to live in independent housing. Any senior wishing to reside on campus may replace a junior in the lottery or in a fraternity or sorority, unless the exchange prevents the fraternity or sorority from filling the house.. Beth students must sign a Residence Hall Contract at the Office of Residence Life {CC 405} in R~cson .and. at~~ ~ prior to the lottery. The senior must agree to reslde on campus for the entire and .will b~ given the jutlior's eliminate seniors. the so-called leaders of the coJlege community, from the campus entirely\ but it could also give rise to new inequities between males and females at Union College. For example, if we allow only Greek seniors the option of living on campus, more male seniors will be able to reside on campus than will females because there is more fraternity housing than there is sorority housing. Oth.er points were raised including a previous college policy that guaranteed housing to females up until the time of their graduation, inequities within an actual exchange system between sophomores and juniors, as well as whether or not Resident Advisors would be allowed to take part in such an exchange system. As it became increasingly obvious that the 1991-92 Residence Requirements are still not truly understood by the members of the SAC the stipulations in their present fonn would in the same way be extremely ambiguous to the college community. Thus, the discussion was tabled once again. Before the discussion was put to rest, however, Mammola strcs:-;cd that the policy is one which needs to he communicate.d a.-; a -;crillllS one. For now, the committe .. · will continue its l' xanu nat inn 11 f rcsid:~ncc guidelines by pulllll!! s~.·niors to asrcrt:tl!l n xtl~ how many wtll rc alh't'tcd l'y th..: lit'\\ pu!i(~ and I\ h(~'.,·r lht'ft' 1:-> ,Ill t'l[llll,li 1 :,· '-' ;,, [,, llllJHl~l· .Ill 1.'\~li.lll~: .. · ~~ ~t-Ii. II a c.kcision is 111 L1ct rmttk to banish scnillr\ fn,mthc;• college campus.

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, February 7, 1991 Minerva Hour Speaker Bashes Cuomo Continued from page 3 eliminated. London points out that it costs the state three times more to provide for a person on welfare than it costs to provide for a similar recipient in California. The Republican platform calls for privitizing many government services. \Privitization is the theme of the '90s,\ says London. Through pri vitization, assets can be sold or contracts for current government services can be given. IfNew York sold La Guardia and K~ennedy airports, the state could generate approximately $25 billion dollars. New York also owns three ski resorts as well as many other assets which can easily be sold. In addition to privitization, London wants to elimninate the standard tuition rates for the state's public universities. The real cost for the state's public schools is approximately $15,000 and the state provides for about $14,000 of that cost. London proposes a means test for the public school system with staggered tuition rates so that any family earning over $200,000 a year would have to pay the full tuition. He also wants to tighten the school system's cost.. controls. Although the SUNY enrollments have been decreasing over the past few years, the schools have been hiring more staff. 'Rent controls' in New York City is another hot topic for London. The rent controls were intended to be a temporary measure to control inflated rental rates after World War II. However, these \frozen rates\ still exist. London says if rent , control with its state subsidies were elimianted, the state would save over $400 milton a . year. Because of rent controls, there is little incentive for new construction. Although they were designed for the lower and middle classes, many priviliged residents have nice apartments at below market prices which they never give up. London calls for the elimination of these unecessary and costly rent contr.ols. Currently, one in seven people live in rent- controlled apartments and there are strong lobbies supporting their existence. London concedes that there are many political hurdles which must be overcome in solving this problem. Finally, London says that Republican platform dictates the need to lower the tax bur:den of the state's taxpayer. In the last ten years, New York State had a low growth rate of only two percent. This figure indicates that families have been leaving the state in search of better opportunities elsewhere. London blames the state's worsening tax situation for this exodus. To open a business in New York City, one must pay a wide array of corporate taxes, which accumulate to over 30% of one's income. This is in direct contrast to New Hampshire, which ,doosn't have a corporate tax. London points out that any business which has the means of leaving the city will leave, in order to maximize their profits elsewhere. London says that by reducing these stiff taxes, corporations can grow and expand and the state will benefit with a larger tax base. He believes that same concept applies to the individual taxpayers. London claims that the highest taxed New York residents work five months of the year just to pay their state, local and federal taxes. In last November's New York State Gubernatorial election, London ran as third party candidate in the Conservative party. He received a record 827,000 votes which is the most votes since the Civil War as a third party candidate. He ran against the incumbent. Mario Cuomo, and the Republican party candidate, Pierre Rinfret. Some members · of the press have accused London of dividing the Republican party's vote. London says that he wanted \to kiss the Sleeping Beauty and awaken the Republican Party.\ When asked about the next gubernatorial race, London says, \If the Republican party and the Conservative party can unite, I would be happy to run for governor four years from now.\ Dean of Admissions To Retire Continued from page 1 competitive standards for admitting a highly talented and motivated student body. He has ~njoyed most the opportunity to meet many interesting people during the interview process, and the friendships he has developed with his colleagues on the admissions staff and members of the Union community. One of the most frustrating things about working at Union, said Nourse, is the inability of the College to break away from the statement that Union is New York State's \best kept secret.\ Nourse believes that the President's decision to accept the Division I Hockey bid will be helpful in giving Union more visibility. Similarly, he is pleased with the accomplishments of the Ambassador program, which he I believes is also successful in getting Union's name known. Dean Nourse plans to move back to Vermont where he is hoping to spend much of his time on the golf course. Likewise, he and his wife are looking forward to spending time together traveling. At the same time over ninety applicants have applied for the position of Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid. Vice President Maranville, · chairman of the Search Committee. which will be responsible in reviewing the applications for the position, said he was very pleased with the applicant pool. The Search Committee plans to continue to reduce the applicant pool and make their final recom·mendation to the President by early March. Womeri Athletes Claim They Are Treated Unfairly Continued .from page 3 athletic program in general, in this brochure while the men was not as concerned with the were allmted 38 pages. She Title IX requirements as Sakala was also upset that the top becasue she quickly .pointed out ahtletic administrators and the that budgets hide things. college president were featured ; Rather, she focused on on the men's pages while perceptions. She claims that advertising was primarily in degradiQg comments made the women's section. towards women, inadequate Most of the discussion publicity, and obvious focused on ·the accusation that favoritism will have women are required to pay for . detrimental implications for the their limited equipment such as women's playing quality. field hockey sticks and lacrosse In the end, symbolic gestures sticks while men's teams are appear to have injured the provided with theirs. Sakala women the most. In one claimed mat these are \personal situation, Sakata accepted an items that last for an entire alumni donation of a car to be season.\ When a member of used exclusively by the the audience asked whether football program for recruiting. hockey or lacrosse sticks were Many women claimed that as more personal than sneakers for . someone committed to equity, which the college does in part · Sakala should have turned reimburse its athletes, Sakata down the gift. did not respond. Futhermore, women athletics Ferrero once refuted the are upset because not one women's accusations by women's sports team played at declaring that hockey players home during Homecoming must purchase their own skates Weekend. Other arguments which tend to average focused on scheduling for the approximately $250 per pair. fields, and weight rooms Still, a member of the audience practices whereby the women seemed very angry when she claim that the football team responded. \In general, the receives top priority. As well, guys are given what they need a women's volleyball player and the girls are not given what pointed out that she and her they need.\ teammates have had a hard time Sakala, who took the brunt locating a trainer after of the attack, asserted that the sustaining injuries during same guidelines are used for practices in the past. every sport when it comes to The weight room was also determini11:g the annual budget an issue._ A member of the \In most cases, the.budgets are audience . described the approved as submitted,\ stated equipment as oversized for the Sakala. He continued by average woman. She also pointing out that everyone complained that there are not receives the same amount of freeweights of less than 25 money for pre-game meals and pounds available to weight per diem allowances. room users. She continued by Futhermore, Sakala stressed· ·stating that \it says to me that that if the sum of the this is not a place where I am submitted budgets goes over, necessarily welcome.\ She what is allocated by the asked Sakala to take these administration and the points under consideration so president, funding is cut across that the gymnasium can be the board for all the athletic expanded to meet the needs of programs. Statistically, Sakala the general community. clearly illustrated that the present budget is very much in line with both Title IX requirements and the male- female ratio in Union College athletics. Hayes was also upset about the lack of professionalism exhibited by some of the male coaches. She pointed out that \her pride is tarnished\ seeing male coaches at a fraternity party on campus acting \less than professional\. She is concerned that male coaches sometimes use coaching techniQues which involve the Huggins contended that this structure of inequities is I perpetuated by sexism forcing the women to be as \careful and accurate as possible\ when dealing with the inequities. To resolve the situation we must \get rid of the structure of privilege and tradition .that systematically discriminates . against women in sports.\ She • closed the discussion by ' encouraging women to speak · out and to continue to work for more equitable treatment at Union. use of \extreme profanity.\ She Sakala acknowleged the need claimed that this type of for further investigation of the behavior is never displayed by i issues raised during the women. discussion, and he stressed the H u g gin s , a I t h o ugh importance he places on being admittedly not very \dedicated to seeing the knowledgeable about the women's programs grow.\ The Economics Club is proud to present: Mr. Marvin Phaup, an economist at the Congressional Budget Office Thursday, February 7 at 3:45 in SS104 Refreshments will be served, and all are welcome to attend.

CONCORDIENSIS, February 7, 1991 Page 5 CROSSTALK Do Your Part! Please Help the RED CROSS Support Troops in the Gulf. WINTER 1991 DATES CABARET ROO.M - COLLEGE CENTER Give Blood Wednesday, Feb. 20th. TUES, FEB. 12 \Written on the Union Wall: What Do our Grafittl Say about Us?\ .Sign .. ups in the College Center. Tues., Feb. 26 \Alcohol and Other Drugs: Are Union Students Real·ly Immune?·'' Feb. 12th -19th. WHERE WILL YOU BE FOR SPRING BREAK? WIN A TRAVEL PACKAGE AND CASH PRIZES OF $100 AND MORE AT THE STUDENT P·H.QNATHON! FEBRUARY 17, 18 & 19 5:30 TO 9:30 HALE HOUSE DINING ROOM CALL STACI DUPRE, ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF THE ANNUAL FUND, AT X6142 FOR MORE INFORMATION. • So you want to be considered for Financial aid? Well then APPLY! APPLY ON Tl ME! APPLY EACH ACADEMIC YEAR! Upperclass aid applications are available through the Financial Aid Office in Becker Hall. To be considered for all financial aid programs, FAFs are due to CSS by March 1, 1991. All other application materials are due to the Financial Aid Office by April 15, 1991. ;cOtifACTS' I Get the A1&T Calling Card and your first call is free. I 1---- . ~ LsEN$ siAi There's no better time to speflk your mind. Because now when you get your free AT&T Calling Card, you'll get your first 15-minute call free'!' • . . With your AT&T Calling Card, · aT · · . :: · you can call from almost anfwhere . . ~ to anywhere. And you can keep , ·.· 1 your card, even if you move and .. !:::;.:~\: .. ~\'; get a new phone number. Our calling Card is part of the AT&T Student Saver Plus program, a whole package of products and services designed to make a students budget go farthet: So look for lfl'&T Calling Gard applications on campus. Or call us at 1 800 525·7955, Ext. 655. And let freedom ring . 1~. Helping make college life a little easier. ATI.T Contact Lenses For Less Fast. Convenient. Direct-to-You savings of up to 50%. All Brands and Prescriptions in stock. in· eluding Tints & Disposables . Overnight shipments available. Lenses 100% Guaranteed .jn fac· tory-sealed vials. Call for infonnation and FREE CATALOG. BD0-726-7802 *A $3.00 value fora coast-to-coast Calling Card call. Applies to customer-dialed calls made during the Al&T Night/Weekend calling period, llpm to 8am, Sunday through Thursday and llpm Friday through Spm Sunday. You may receive more or less calling time depending on where and when you call. Applications must be received by June 30, 1991. The right choice. 24 Hours 7 Days 1------------------------------------~i t.!_109_f!-~~ !!_ollywood.R~..J

Page 6 CONCORDIENSJS, February 7, 1991 FEATURES Tenderfoot: Slipping Through Time By CARL R.. JlRIEDRICH, JR. As I looked down at my feet, it was hard to put together a thought which would have saved them. But even as I began to accept the inevitable, that my slippers hacj to go, I couldn't help but to pause and remember many of the good times we shared over the eleven, yes eleven, years which I have owned them. I remember when I, my parcms that is, bought them for me. It was the first time I had ever been to L.L. Bean, near Bates College, where my sister was going to school. It wasn't the giant boot or the various outdoor curiosities that caught my eyes that day, but the genuine, Indian-style, moose-skin slippers with the furry insides. The vision of them on the discount rack set my young but upwardly mobile materialistic mind working. \Them I said, pointing. My surprised parents gladly obliged me, as up to the moment of my en(;e.unter with fate they were slUe: I wanted a hunting crossb()w to wreak havoc with instea:d. No, not this time. It wa:s slippers, beautiful slippers,. on the discount rack, to b()~t. Those slippers ha. ve seen a lot in their day. Rlrst off, they didn't fit me for C~bout three years, but that did11't bother me. Even when Iilley scm me tumbling around the Blouse, and my mother into a s ubscqucnt frenzy, looking for shattered dclicates. Like a cherished teddy bear, these slipJlers were a symbol, a monu!l1ellt which gave me identity . .Kids are so weird about thi11gs like that, aren't they? By the time they- fit, I could appreciate their qLJality. They were indestructil>le: - good for hanging around ()rJ a Sunday afternoon, running cmt to get the mail, and even, on occasion, for making a late night run to Baskin-Robbins (impuls.i ve Mint Chocolate Chip Shake cravings came with my license - ah youth). It's my belief that each of us have a few silly items which help us to maintain karma, and one of those thiags for me are these now over-the-hill slippers from the discount rack at L.L. Bean. So now a little bit of karma has to be replaced. Like that cherished teddy bear with no eyes and tom ears (I ;buried him in the backyard, it was very traumatic), I have to let them go. The ductile tape covering the holes in them has finally worn out, and they are too gross to clean. Still, my feet find a little (perhaps nostalgic) comfort in them, though the once furry lining has run its course, too. I think back to when I first got them, and look at them now. It's pretty sad, 20 Years Later, Women on Formerly All-Male Campuses Fight to Change Their Institutions \Old Boy Images\ By MICHELE N-K COLLISON Courtesy of The Chronicle of Higher Education As many formerly all-male colleges and universities mark their 20th year of coeducation, many female students and professors say little has been done to eradicate age-old traditions that alienate women. Just as women began pushing the institutions in the late 1960s to open their doors, female students and faculty members are now fighting to change the universities' very culture. At the same time, anniversary celebrations on many of the campuses are prompting administrators to ponder how they can change their institutions' \old boy\ images. Clinging to Societies and Fraternities The women say men still cling fast to such all-male bastions as secret societies and fraternities. Although women make up n~arly 50% of the student population, they are still struggling to develop a feeling of belon~ing, academically and socially, at institutions in, which somber portraits of male founders stare down from the walls and all the buildings are named after men. \The masculine tradition is steeped in mortar and stone,\ saus Cynthia E. Russett, professor of history at Yale University. \It poses a barrier to a sense of female tradition, a female sense of history. Just because we opened doors to women is not a call for complacency. We are not yet at any nirvana.\ Most of the Ivy League universities and some other highly-selective lilleral arts colleges are in tlle group of institutions that first admitted women in the years from 1969 to 1971. The list includes Trinity and Frall.ltlin and Marshall Colleges, and Brown, Colgate. Princet()n, Yale and Wesleyan Universities. Other institutions that admitted women a few years later-· among them Amherst· :::.nd Dartmouth Colleges-- are struggling with Jna.lly of the same issues. Female students ~tt fonnerly all-male institutio11s have a long list of comiJla:ints. They say that curricula don't reflect the contributions ()f women; that faculty members don't always treat wome11 equally; that the health and :Safety needs of women are igll<>:red; and that the institutions llon't hire enough female faculty members and adnlini.:Strators. Only a Single G.nteration Women attending institutions that lla-ve always been coed have similar complaints. But women at traditionally male 1111iversities say their problems run deeper. \There's a histm~ of shared culture, of tradition, symbols that were created when only men were here;'\ sa.ys Noreen Channels, professor of sociology at Trinity College. \The culture has ,to be quite intentionally chlU\ged to make these institutions: less male dominated.\ In addition, while women at coeducational institutions can look to alumnae f()r support and direction, only one generation of ~ornen has passed through tile formerly all-male institutions. \Alumni still come up to me and say, 'Yale's biggest mistake was admitting women,\' says Sara Romeyn, a senior at the university. College and unviersity officials say they are striving to improve education for women on their campuses. Indeed, on many campuses the 20th anniversary of coeducation has brought more attention to women's issues than female faculty members and administratots say they have seen in a decade. 'Mentor~llip' Program at Yale Maya Lin, a 1981 Yale graduate who was architect of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial in Washington, has been commissioned to design a statue honoring women at Yale. And the university now allows women to participate in a \mentorship\ progam designed for minority students in the sciences. Princeton has created a committee to recommend ways of improving the status of women on its campus. Harvard opened a women's center this year, Colgate and Wesleyan are revamping their fraternity systems so that the organizations have less influence on social life. Dartmouth has found it more difficult to recruit women than have some of the other formerly male institutions, so it has developed special programs to attract female students. Trinity surveyed all of its female graduates last year and plans to use .the results to improve conditions for them. Says Donna L. Shavlik, director of the Office of Women in Higher Education at the American Council on Education: \Before it was women doing the changing, the adapting. Now women are Continued on page 9 but at least from an \adult's\ perspective I can say they were a good buy. But I know within myself they weren't bougltt for any such practical purposes. You see, in their decay I realize that they were always there, through the thick and thin. Like teddy, 1hey didn't care what you did or said, but just provided you with comfort. I don't think I can bury this old friend in the backyard. That was too hard the first time. And I certainly can't flush them down the toilet, as I did with Gomer the Goldfish. Perhaps I should bronze them. Nah, my slippers wouldn't like that, it wasn't part of our covenant. I'll just have to let them go, into the sunset. But let me teH you, the next time I'm at the discount rack at L.L. Bean, I don't know if I'll be able to look. BLOOD MOBILE COMING FEBRURHY 1 BTH AND 2011:1 MORE INFORMATION TO CO·ME! American Red Cross + PI ease give blood. Gone, But Not Forgotten. The passenger pigeon. The heath hen. The Utbrador duck. The Carolina parakeet The list of extinct animals grows. But it doesn't have to. The National 'Vildlife Federation is working to s:I\'e endangered species. join us while there's still time. . The National Wildlife Federauon. 1412 16th Street, N\V'; Washington, DC 20036-2266. Working for the Nature of Tomorrow,. WILDLIFE F TION

CONCORDIENSIS, February 7, 1991 Page 7 FEATURES Fifty Miles East By SUZANNE SHAKER Features Editor I needed a vacation, I needed a change of scene. Where does one who wants, desires, yearns, craves the romantic gondolas of Venice, ancient ruins ofRom.e, stunning Renaissance cathedrals of Florence, mouthwatering cuisine of Paris, the scrumptious chocolate of Belgium go? To Williamstown, Massachusetts, of course! Although this excursion lacks the excitement of the European attractions it does make for an incredibly peaceful and relaxing voyage. All one needs to fully enjoy Williamstown is one afternoon, a half tank of gas and a few dollars. Our journey begins with an absolutely breathtaking hour and fifteen minutes drive east, just beyond the border of New York and Massachusetts. There is no denying that New York has more to offer than simply smog and traffic congestion. l'he blanket of unadulterated, white snow that painted the landscape and the clear, cool, crisp icicles that hung from the bare branches reminded me that winter is more than runny noses, frozen fingertips and theses. As I climbed the spiraling stretch of mountain road I began to wonder why it has taken till senior year to discover what has been right at my fingertips? Fifty miles later I pulled into Williamstown. After driving through the quaint, New England town I decided to explore the college (Williams College, that is). Although I honestly feel that Union is and always will be the most beautiful college, I must admit that Williams comes awfully close. The College and town seemed to subtly merge with one another, becoming one and the same. Unlike at Union there are no gates and no perimeters indicating what is and what is not official college property. The main street runs straight through Williams as campus buildings fill the nooks and crannies of the town. Nestled between the campus and a gorgeous New England church, right off the main street was downtown And now, Union's top ten reasons to apply for an RA position ... 1 . Spacious single allows you to comfortably house a family of four. 2. Learn \Oool\ RA Secret Handshake. 3. Job title easy to spell on resumes. 4. During firedrills, others freeze outside while you work up a sweat running around the building. 5. Free \Yugos\ tor 1irst 300 applicants. 6. Naked Nott runs are even more exciting when you could lose your job because of them. 7. Virtually impossible to fine yourself. s. Duty nights can be arranged so that you're always home for really good \Cheers\ reruns. 9. No joke - •• you receive a single room, $300 per year off your meal plan, free refrigerator rental, and free local phone service. 1 o. And, why not??? To enjoy these job perks and many more, take the RA challenge. Applications are available through the Residel')ce Life Office now. Application deadline: Friday, February 15, 1991 at 4:30. Williamstown; three blocks of cozy cafes, a few candy and stationery stores, a bakery, several antique shops and even a few boutiques. I bought a tuna sandwich at M<Jnique's Cafe and ate it as I continued to wander through the student center, dormitories and various academic buildings. I finished my sandwich, hopped into my needs-a-very- good-washing Subaru and drove around the comer and down the block to the Sterling and Francine Clark Art Institute. The museum's collection is housed in a magnificent, classical, white marble building designed in the early 1950's by Daniel Perry. Upon entering the museum I ,resisted the temptation of the museum shop, saving the best for last and proceeded wit\h the traditional route. According to the museum's brochure, \The major strengths of the Clark Art Institute lie in its holdings of French 19th Century paintings, of English silver, and of prints and drawings.\ Being a novice fan of impressionism, I was immediately drawn to the works by Renoir, Monet, Degas, Pissaro and Sisley. There were also a number of paintings by American artists such as Homer, Sargent, Remington and Cassatt (one of the few women artists represented in the museum) as well. Another of the museum's highlights, which I was particularly interested i11, after spending last fall in Florence was \The Italian Old Master's Gallery.\ On display was a 14th century altarpiece by Ugolino da Siena, works by Boticelli, Piero della Francesca and Ghirlbendaio. In addition to its impressive collection of paintings, also featured were 19th century bronze sculptures by Rodin, Renoir andDegas, including his most famous work, \The Ballet Dancer Dressed\; prints and drawings from the IStb to early 20th centuries and decorative arts, such a s silver serving pieces, porcelain from the early 18th and 19th centuries, early American blown glass and French and American furniture. The entire museum, including the small gift shop whicb sells videos, books, posters, cards and children's games, books and toys can be seen in well under two hours. For those interested in art history, the institute houses one of the major art historical research libraries in the country and serves as the home for an art history graduate program offered in conjunction with \Villiams College. After browsing through the gift shop and purchasing a few postcards I decided to drive through the town once more before heading back to SENIORP Schenectady. I stopped in Monique's again to buy a few oat bran muffins and homemade chocolate chip cookies for my roommates and a delicious cup of coffee for myself. As I sat in the cafe I imagined what it would be like if Schenectady had a Moniquc's or a Clark Art Institute. Very Different. DIRECTIONS TO WILLIAMSTOWN: Left onto Union Street to Route 7 East, follow signs to Route 2 which will take you right into Williamstown. The museum is 1/4 of a mile south from the intersection of Routes 7 & 2 in the middle of Williamstown. The Museum's hours are Tuesday- Sunday 10-5. GDAY CHUC ROOM, HUMANITIES BASEMENT EVERY SATURDAY, 12:00-6:00 PM Free Printing on Rainbows Free Imagewriter copies SPECIAL RATES On Mac Laser Printer for Seniors on Saturday 10¢ a page $5.00 maximum per day

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, February 7, __ 1991 FEATURES Intoxicating Findings By LESLIE MORGAN Seventeen Magazine, Courtesy of SADD In El Salvador, your first drunk driving offense could be your last: the reported penalty there for boozing and crusiing is execution by firing squad. Things aren't quite so harsh in the U.S. yet, but laws are getting tougher-- especially for teenagers. Below, more reasons (Besides the obvious cnes) to avoid driving drunk: • Teenagers in Maine caught behind the wheel with a blood alcohol level of .02%-- one or tw~ beers-- lose their license f()I' a :year. * Orange County, California teena.,ge drunk drivers can be re<J.tiired to tour the morgue and view autopsies of people who diro' alcohol- and drug- related deaw. \' J11dges in 16 states can no\' require convicted drunk drivels to install an electronic <levice hooked to a Breathalyzer iil 'tlleir cars that prevents them fr<>m driving if they've been drinkillg. \' I:n New York, starting this mo11th,. if you're under 21 and· ca11ght even possessing alc<11lol (with intent to consume), you can be fined $50. And get this, in some Illinois suburbs, police now take down license plate numbers of cars parked outside parties where there's underage drinlting going on, then send a letter to the car's owner-- usually a parent-- saying \your vehlcie was parked outside a known underage drinkng party.\ Fair? We'll let you decide, but we will say that drunk driving deaths among 15- to 19-year-olds have decreased since 1981. And that's a lot of lives. The War: An Inside View Continued from page 1 As an aside let me note the following in order to acquaint the reader with the author. i know Americans stationed in the Gulf, my uncle and great uncle both lost their houses during the first SCUD attack against Israel, I currently have many friends and a large family that permanently reside in Israel many of whom serve in the Israeli Defense Forces, I trained to fight against the Iraqis and Syrians specifically, I don't care much about Kuwait or Saudi Arabia politically, though I have friends with family in Saudi, for many reasons too numerons and involved to list here, I'm still not sure whether America should foot so large a part of the bill that this war will generate (as opposed to the Ellf'()peall community that has m11<:b more at stake), I greatly dislike Saddm Hussein (though I fmd comparisons of him with Hitler a.bsurd) and would have n<> problem killing him myself, if the money were ri~ht given the risk or if scrneone asked me to, I d o o.ot enjoy war and wish it was a-voidable (which I think it })rol>ably was as far as the Umited States is concerned), and I thi:nk the United Nations is a jCJke; a completely us~!ess ()rgan_ization that should be do11e away with so all that mo11ey can actually fix some prCJblems. What I know, llowever, is how to fight in the cle~ert, how to fight in cities an<i villages and what it means to be an infantryman in today's world, and I would like to share some of my experiential knowledge with you, the conege community. First, allow me to begin by expressing my joy at. and emphasizing the importance of, the current trend of supporting and remembring the soldiers, men and women, that are currently fighting in the war. The life of a soldier is stressful, lonely and incredibly dangerous. The support we extend to our soldiers, aside from being merely a truly righteous th~~t will also come back around to.., us, the supporters. Remember, regardless of your politics, that like you and me. these soldiers are human beings that will be returning to our society, and how much better our society will be if our returning veterans find a place to be and contribute and how much Drink For The Designated -Driver ORANGE JULIUS 7 cups orange Juice 3-ounce box regular instant vanilla pudding 1 tablespoon lemon Juice 1 teaspoon vanilla 1 egg white 1 envelope of cream WhiP powder Mix 31/.z cups orange juice with box of .pudding, vanilla, lemon juice and egg white. Blend on high speed 1 minute. Pour this into a 2-.Quart Pitcher. Mix another 3Yz cups orange juice in blender, with 1 envelope ~a.f Dream WhiP powder. Blend this 1 minute, then add It to the first mixture. cover Pitcher and refrigerate. 14 SERVINOS stop serving alcohol about two hours tJefore the partv Is over. Thfs will give your guests time fOr their .bodies to absorb one or two of the alcohol drinks consumed. stronger our safety if being a soldier is as honorable as it should be cannot be imagined. Fm those that don't support this war, there may come a tim_e when the safety of yourself and your lqved ones may come under jeopardy, it will be soldiers that protect you should this time arise. For your Sake and the sake of those that fight please continue your support. Second, anyone who has not actually been in a military (no. military schools don't count) cannot imagine what it is like to be impris011ed yet to be free, to follow and to lead, to aid and to hinder,-to build an~ destroy, to protect and to kill. Those who return will have horrible memories, and you will not understand. I urge everyone to remember that these are human beings, and so are the enemy soldiers,. and try to understand that most soldiers recognize the humanity of those they kill and injure. It is very hard to live with. Third, aside from those that served in _Vietnam, the politicians that made the decisions to go to war have no idea what it is like in the 1990's. Weapons have come a long way since the Vietnam era, let alone World War II. Never before has each individual soldier been capable of the amount of destruction that today's soldier can inflict. I personally carried an RPG, a missile launching system that could tum a truck, small house or group of people into fragments. Every infantryman has destructive capability of this magnitude. Furthermore, the desert is not the jungle of Vietnam n()r the plains and forests of Western Europe. The desert is barren, unforgiving. It is without landmarks, with nothing but the incredible heat of the sun and silence of the night; no place to run to, no place to hide. The desert demllllds a commitment and effort when ·one is just visiting, the nature of warfare here is hellacious. By no means am I attempting to belittle the accomplishments of those that survived previous WlU'S, I am merely stating: that a certain level· of expertise is needed that is not the norm for American soldiers that train primarily (or jungles,. forests and plains. Also, a great deal of village and city fighting will- be necessary. Warfare of this nature puts the soldier under intense pressure and danger as small groups go from building to building, from room to room to contact the enemy as sniper fire rains down from the roofs, civilian run, h:ide, and clamor for help and there are so many corners around which who knows what what lurks. Many times the 'nature of this type of fighting resembles the underground tunnels of Vietnam. Still further, as in Vietnam, times will arise when our soldiers will not be able to differentiate between civilians and enemy fighters. It takes only one ten year old with a rocket launcher to destroy all ability to differentiate. trust me. Indeed, war is hell, but as our imaginations grow and technologies multiply, so this hell approaches the Inferno that Dante illustrates. Remembering my exper- iences in order to share them with my friends does not get easier, forgetting them is impossible. Regardless of your politics I beseech everyone to continue in supporting our brothers and sisters across the sea that fight in the TV war that seems so far away. They will return, and the war will come with them. Only through supporting them now and when they return will we be able to prevail, not against Suddam Hussein, but against the war itself.

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, February 7 1 '\1991 FEATURES Intoxicating Findings By LESLIE MORGAN Seventeen Magazine, Courtesy of SADD In El Salvador, your ftrst drunk driving offense could. be your last: the reported penalty there for boozi11g and crusiing is execution by firing squad. Things aren't quite so harsh in the U.S. yet. but laws are getting tougher~- especially for teenagers. Below, more reasons (Besides the obvious ones) to avoid driving drunk: * Teenagers in Maine caught behind the wlleel with a blood alcohol level of .02%-- one or two beers-- lose their license for a year. * Orange County, California teenage drunk drivers can be required to tour the morgue and view autopsies of people who died alcohol- and drug- related deaths. * I udges in 16 states can now require convicted drunk drivers to install an electronic device hooked to a Breathatyzer in their cars that preventS them from driving if they've been drinking. * In New York, starting this month, if you're under 21 and- caught even possessing alcohol (with intent to consume), you can be fined $50. And get this, in some Illinois suburbs, police now take down license plate numbers of cars parked outside parties where there's underage drinking going on, then send a letter to the car's owner-- usually a parent-a saying \your vehicle was parked outside a known underage drinkng party.\ Fair? We'll let you decide, but we will say that drunk driving deaths among 15- to 19-year-olds have decreased since 1981. And that's a lot of lives. The War: An Inside View Continued fr()m page 1 As an aside let me note the following in order to acquaint the reader with. the author. i know Americans stationed in the Gulf, my uncle and great uncle both lost their houses during the first SCUD attack against Israel, I currently have many friends and a large family that permanently reside in Israel many of whom serve in the Israeli Defense Forces, I trained to fight against the Iraqis and Syrians specifically, I don't care much about Kuwait or Saudi Arabia politically. though I have friends with family in Saudi, for many reasons too numerous and involved to list here, I'm still not sure whether America should foot so large a part of the bill that this war will generate (as opposed to the European community that has much more at stake), I greatly dislike Saddm Hussein (thougll I find comparisons of him with Hitler absurd) and would have no problem killing him myself, if the money were right given the risk or if someone asked me to, I do not enjoy war and wish it was avoidable (which I think it probably was as far as the United States is concerned), and I think the United Nations is a joke; a completely usdess organization that should be done away with so all that money can actually fix some problems. What I know, however, is how to fight in the desert, how to fight in cities and villages and what it means to be an infanttyman in today' s world, and I would like to share some of my experiential knowledge with you, the college community. First, allow me to begin by expressing my joy at, and emphasizing the importance of, the current trend of supporting and remembring the soldiers, men and women, that are currently fighting in the war. The life of a soldier is stressful, lonely and incredibly dangerous. The support we extend to our soldiers, aside from being merely a truly righteous thin&t will also come back around to., us, the supporters. Remember, regardless of your politics, that · like you and me, these soldiers are human beings that will be returning to our society, and how much better our society will be if our returning veterans find a place to be and contribute and how much Drink For The Designated -Driver 0RA.NCE JU:LlUS 7 cups orange juice J-ounce box regular instant vanilla pudding 1 tablespoon 'lemon Juice 1 teaspoon vanilla 1 egg white 1 envelope of Dream WhiP .powder 'Mix 3Yz cups orange Juice with box of pudding, vanilla, lemon Juice and egg white. Blend on high speed 1 minute .. .Pour this Into a 2-quart pitcher. Mix another 31f:z cups orange juice in blender, with 1 erlVelope of Dream WhleJ powder. Blend this 1 minute, then acid It to the first mixture. cover Pitcher and refrigerate. 14 SERVINGS Stop serving alcohol about two hours before the .party Is over. Ttlls will give your guests time for their bodies to absorb one or two of the alcohol drinks consumed. &tronger our safety if being a soldier is as honorable as it showd be cannot be imagined. F01 those that .don't support tliis war, there may come a time when the safety of yourself and your loved ones may come under jeopardy, it wili be soldiers that protect you should this time arise. For your Sake and the sake of those that fight please continue your SUj>port. ~econd, anyone who has not actually been in a military (no, military schools don't count) ca~~not imagine what it is like to be imprisoned yet to be free, to fonow and to lead, to aid and to hinder, ·to build ang destroy, to protect and to kilL Those who return will have horrible memories, and you will not understand. I urge everyone to remember that these are human beings, and so are the enemy soldiers, and try to understand tllat most soldiers recognize the :humanity of those they kill and i11jure. It is very hard to live with. Third, aside from those that served in _Vietnam, the ]JOliticians that made the decisions to go to war have no idea what it is like in the 1990's. Weapons have come a long way since the Vietnam era. let alone World War II. Never before has each individual soldier been capable <>f the amount of destruction that today's soldier can inflict. I Jlersonally carried an RPG, a missile launching system that could tum a truck, small house <>r group of people into fragments. Every infantryman bas destructive capability of this magnitude. Furthermore, the desert is not the jungle of Vietnam nor the plains and forests of Western Europe. The desert is barren, 11nforgiving. H is without landmarks, with nothing but the incredible heat of the sun and silence of the nigllt; no place to run to, no place to hide. The desert demands a commitment and effort when -one is just visiting, the nature of warfare here is hellacious. By no means am I attempting to belittle the accomplishments of those that survived previous wars, I am mefely stating· that a certain level· of expertise is needed that is not the norm for American soldiers that train primarily (or jungles, forests and plains. Also. a great deal of village and city fighting will be necessary. Warfare of this nature puts the soldier under intense pressure and danger as small groups go from building to building, from room to room to contact the enemy as sniper fire rains down from the roofs, civilian run, hide, and clamor for help and there are so many corners around which who knows what what lurks. Many times the 'nature of this type of fighting resembles the underground tunnels of Vietnam. Still further, as in Vietnam, times will arise when our soldiers will not be able to differentiate between civilians and enemy fighters. It takes only one ten year old with a rocket launcher to destroy all ability to differentiate, trust me. Indeed, war is hell, but as our imaginations grow and technologies multiply, so this hell approaches the Inferno that Dante illustrates. Remembering my exper- iences in order to share them with my friends does not get easier, forgetting them is impossible. Regardless of your politics I beseech everyone to continue in supporting our brothers and sisters across the sea that fight in the TV war that seems so far away. They will return, and the war will come with them. Only through supporting them now and when they return will we be able to prevail, not against Suddiim Hussein, but against the war itself.

CONCORDJENSIS, February 7, 1991 Page 9 FEATURES Women Fight Institutions' \Old Boy Images'' Continued from page 6 demanding that it's time for institutions to do the adapting.\ College and university officials say institutions have made much progress in the past 20 years and are continuing to do so. \It isn't perfect, but it's a lot better than it was.\ says Patricia Pierce, associate dean of the college at Yale. \It takes time for things to cbange completely at institutions as large as Yale.\ Scarce in Physics and Engineering On most traditionally male campuses, the proportion of women has · been rising steadily. At Yale, women made up only 13% of the freshman class in 1969-- the year they · were frrst admitted-- while they account for 46% of this year's entering class. At Harvard University; women now make up about 40% of the freshman class, while at Wesleyan they makeup 50%. - But women-still are scarce in' fields, like physics and engineering. Suzy J. Loper is the only female physics major in Yale's senior class this year. \At times I was really frustrated because I wasn't really· being listened to,\. Ms. Loper says. \My views were constantly dismissed in discussions. So I started doing problem sets four days early so they had no reason to question my ability.\ Ms. Loper was inspired, she says, by a group of female scientists who spoke last year during Yale's celebration of coeducation. Female students at many formerly male institutions say their problems in the classroom are exacerbated by the small proportions of female faculty members. After a Yale committee issued a 1985 report criticizing the lack of tenured female faculty members, the university pledged to double their numbers. Now, 33 of the tenured faculty members, or 9%, are women. By comparison, 49 of the tenured faculty members at Dartmouth. or 22%, are women. At Harvard, 33 faculty members, also 9%, are women. \If you sell yourself as a diverse institution, you should not only have diversity in your student body. but also in your faculty,\ says Patti JoCasey, a senior at Yale. \It's disturbing to walk into class after class and see nothing but male professors.\ Mixed Reaction Anna M. Martinez, associate dean of admissions·at Amherst, recalls a female graduate student who explained how disconcerted she was that her mathematics professor-- a man- - called numbers \shes\. \Finally he looks at her and says, 'Maybe I shouldn't be calling them shes.' A male students says, 'Yes, but they are irrational numbers.' Things like this chip away at armor.\ Mrs. Martinez organized a press conference about the concerns of women on traditionally male campures.' · . Reactions to women's efforts to make changes at traditionally male campuses has been mixed. Women who advocate the changes are labeled extremists and \hard-core feminist warriors,\ says Abigail P. Crozier, a senior at Yale. \There is hostility,\ says her classmate, Ms. Romeyn. \They want to know why you're making such a fuss.\ Ms. Romeyn has been lampooned several times in the Yale Daily News for speaking out on women's issues. \People will say, 'I can't believe you're bitching about that again.' says Yate•s Ms. Casey. \Women have added controversy. People don't always like to hear that everyone is not satisfied. But Yale win be the 'better for it.\ Although women at traditionally male institutions complain about academic matters. they reserve some of their harshest criticism for their institutions' social practices. Male dubs and fraternities at many of the institutions perpetuate stereotypes about women and wield far too much power over social lives on campus, _the women say. \The fraternities foster a social system where women are treated as sexual objects;\ says Maureen Flannery, a senior at Dartmoth. Central Locations for Men Others say. women who don't enjoy fratetnity.- parties have few other social alternatives if they want to dance. Says Annie Blais, president of the Radcliffe Union of Students at Harvard University: \Women don't have any place to go and dance that they control. You can sit at home and be politically correct or you can go·and dance and be hwniliatcll.\ · · · · · · Women also object to fraternities because they allow men to live in large houses n central locations, while women must often walk to off-campus apartments. On some of the traditionally male campuses, sororities have been founded in the last few years, but many women say that the groups only enhance the control that the Greek system has over campus activities. At Wesleyan, some fraternities now have women members. Some colleges have been trying to put the brakes on fraternities. Dartmouth now prohibits students from joining fraternities and sororities until the winter quarter of their sophomore year. The college also charges a :student-activities fee to pay for student organizations. Recognizing Women's Sports Some women say the predominance of the fraternity system has prevented the development of organizations that could add diversity to campus life. While women's sports teams exist at most formerly male institutions, female students say the colleges don't give as much attention to them as they do to other campus groups. \You hardly ever see a story about women's sports in the student newspaper,\ says Sara E. Smith, a senior at Yale. \At the Varsity Night dinner, the president was talking about ·men's team·s .. He didn't even mention that the women's cross-country team won a championship. It's time for women's sports to be recognized. Despite such lingering traditions, women have been able to capture leadership positions at some formerly all-male institutions. Last year a woman was elected president of Yale's student- governmemt association and a woman was named editor of the Y a I e Daily News. But problems remain. \It's not always easy,\ says Lenore Homic, editor of the Colgate News. \Men will not always accept authority from women.\ New Organizations Formed To combat a sense of isolation, women on some campuses are forming their Food Drive. Update To the Union College Community: Thanks to you, Delta Psi Delta's first annual food drive was a huge success! Your support allowed us to amass almost 1,300 pounds of food formula, and of couse, SP AM! Special thanks to the Student Activities Office for its invaluable assistance. PIAFH. The brothers and sisters of Delta Psi Delta for the Schenectady Inner City Thanks to all of our Ministry. The drive · was contributors: conducted from Monday to (Due to limited space Friday last week in the College Concordiensis was unable Center, and the response was to print each individual name enthusiastic on all sides. which Delta-Psi-Delta People not only contributed submitted. We apologize) their own food, but also Special thanks to the Union donated money towards the College Bookstore, the sisters purchasing of items such as of Delta Delta .Delta, and all macaroni & cheese, canned those who contributed fruit, vegetables, soup, baby anonymously. Health Service will sponsor a BLOOD PRESSURE CLINIC Tues.. Feb. 12 From 11 a.m. - 2 p.m. In the College . Center Everyone Welcome! 4 . ~ Delta-Psi-Delta Food Drive Unio'YJ.n College ,rt r Career 6 J Development \L··~~·\L·' Center SENIORS!!! Are :you having a tough time identifying potential employers, discovering the hidden job market, and keeping motivated during your job search? Do you wish you had some new ideas about career <lptions, job oppormnities, and how to get hired\ RELAX! TheCDCisofferingaJOB SEEKERS? CLUB for students who find themselves in this situation. Join us for this four-session program designed to assist seniors in the tasks at hand (namely, those mentioned above!). The Job Seek- ers' Club will meet on the following Thursday afternoons at 3:00pm: February 14, 21,, 28 and March 7 in the CDC. Please sign up in the CDC. own organizations. such as Amherst's Women in Science. Dartmouth College has created the Women in Science program to consider science careers. African-American, Hispanic, and Asian women have joined to form a Women of Color organization at Yale. And many women point to women's studies courses and women's centers as evidence that they are having an impact on the institutions. Women say traditionally male campuses have also given short shrift to the special health and safety needs of women. Although many of the colleges that are marking 20 years of coeducation have sexuaJ-assault awareness programs and employ sexual assault counselors, female students say the universities are behind most other coeduational institutions. Last month women at Brown University, frustrated by the institutions's policy on sexual assaults, listed on the walls of women's bathrooms the names of men they accused of raping women. Brown's president, V artan Gregorian, denounced the students' actions, but he also proposed changes in university policies for dealing with sexual assaults on the campus. At Amherst, female students persuaded administrators to hire a health educator to help treat eating disorders such as anorexia and bulemia. The college also hired a sexual- harrassment counselor. At Amherst and other fonnerly all-male institutions, says Ms. Martinex. the college's associate dean of admissions, \Women's impatience is growing.\ She adds: \We're finally getting things that other institutions have had in place for a while.\ Multicultural Table Tomorrow Feb. 8th ToQic: Terms Abroad and the Persian Gulf - Allies Views of Americans Speaker: Prof. William Thomas and two students. •Table open from 1:30-1:30• .. Talk 12:30-1:00 • • Rm 302CC • ~Next \Table\ is on Thursday in Upper Dining Room!

CONCORDIENSIS, FebrutJry 'T, 1991 Page 9 FEATURES Women Fight Institutions' \Old Boy Images\ Continued from 'Page 6 demanding that it's time for institutions to do the adapting.\ College and university officials say institu~ons have made much progress in the past 20 years and are continuing to do so. \It isn't perfect, but it's a lot better than it was,\ says Patricia Pierce. associate dean of the college at Yale. \It takes time for things to change completely at imstitutions as large as Yale.'' Scarce in Physics and Engi11eering On most traditionally male campuses, the ]UJoportion of women has b~en rising steadily. At Yale, women made up only 13% of the freshman class in 1969-- the year they were first admitted-- while they account for 46% of this year's entering class. At Harvard University, women now make up about 40% 1>f the freshman class, while at Wesleyan they makeup 50%. - But women-still are scarce in. fields, like physics and engineering. S11zy J. Loper is the only female ph.ysics major in Yale's senior class this year. \At times I was really frustrated because I wasn't really; being listened to,\ . Ms; Loper says. \My views were constantly dismissed in discussions. So I started doing problem sets four days early so they had no reason to question my ability.\ Ms. Loper was inspired, she says, by a group of female scientists who spoke last year during Yale's celebration of coeducation. Female students at many formerly male institutions say their problems in the classroom are exacerbated by the small proportions of female faculty members. After a Yale committee iss11ed a 1985 report criticizing the lack of tenured female faculty members, the university pledged to double the:ir numbers. Now, 33 of the tenured faculty members, or 9%, are women. By comparison, 49 of the tenured faculty members at Dartmouth, or 22%, are women. At Harvard, 33 faculty members, also 9%, are women. \'If you sell yourself as a diverse institution, you should n~>t only have diversity in yQur student body, b11t also in your facl!lty,\ says Patti Jo Casey, a senior at Yale. \It's disturbing to walk into class after class and see noth.ing but male professors.\ Mixed lleadion Anna M. Mattinez, associate dean of admissions ·at Amherst, recalls a female graduate student who explained bow disconcerted she was that her mathematics professor-- a man- . called numbers \shes\. \Finally he looks at her and says, 'Maybe I shouldn't be calling thern shes.' A male students says. 'Yes, but they are irrational numbers.' Things like this chip away at armor.\ Mrs. Martinez organized a press conference about the comcerns O'f women on traditionally male campuSes .. · ·Reactions to women's efforts to make changes at traditionally male campuses bas been mixed. Women who advocate the changes are labeled extremists and \hard-core feminist warriors,\ says Abigail P. Crozier, a senior at Yale. \There is h<>stility,\ says her classmate, Ms. Romeyn. 'They want to know why you're making such a fuss.\ Ms. Romeyn has been lampooned several times in the Yale Daily News for speaking out on women's issues. \People will say, 'I can \t believe you're bitching abo11t that again.' says Yale's Ms. Casey. \Women have added controversy. People don't always like to bear :that everyone is not satisfied. But Yale will be the better for it.\ Although women .at traditionally male institutions complain about academic matters, they reserve some of their harshest criticism for their institutions' social practices. Male clubs and fraternities at many of the institutions perpetuate stereotypes about women and wield far too rnHch power over social lives on campus, the women say. \Tile· fraternities foster a sccial system where women are treated as sexual objects;'\ says Mauteen Flannery, a senit>l' at Dartmoth. Central Locations f~J' Men Others say_ women who dcn't enjoy fratetnity ... partieS 'llave few other social alternatives if they wantto dance. Says Annie Blais, president of the Radcliffe Union of Students at Harvard University: \Women don't have any place to go and dance tb.at they control. You can sit at home and be politically oorrect or you can g<rand dance and be humiliated.\ · , · Women also object to fraternities because they allow men to live in large hcuses n central locations, while women must often walk to off-campus apartments. On some of the traditionally male carnp11ses, sororities have been founded in the last few years, but tnany women say that the gro11ps only enhance the control that the Greek system ha~ over campus activities. At Wesleyan, some fraternities now have women members. Some colleges have been trying to put the brakes on fraternities. Dartmouth now prohibits students from joining fraternities and sororities until the winter quarter of their sophomore year. The college also charges a student-activities fee to pay for student organizations. Recognizing Women's Sports Some women say the predominance of the fraternity system has prevented the development of organizations that could add diversity to campus life. While women's sports teams exist at most formerly male institutions. female students say the colleges don't give as much attention to them as they do to other campus groups. \You hardly ever see a story about women's sports in the student newspaper,\ says Sara E. Smith, a senior at Yale. \At the Varsity Night dinner, the president vyas talking about ·men's teams. He didn't even mention that the women's cross-country team won a championship. It's time for women's sports to be recognized. Despite such lingering traditions, women have been able to capture leadership positions at some formerly all-male institutions. Last year a woman was elected president of Yale's student- governmemt association and a woman was named editor of the Y a I e Daily News. But problems remain. \It's not always easy,\ says Lenore Homic, editor of the Colgate News. \Men will not always accept authority from women.\ New Organizations Formed To combat a sense of isolation, women on some campuses are forming their Food Drive. Update To the Union College Community: Thanks to you, Delta Psi Delta's first annual food drive was a huge success! Your support allowed us to amass almost 1,300 pounds of food formula. and of cause, SPAM! Special thanks to the Student Activities Office for its invaluable assistance. PIAFH. The brothers and sisters of Delta Psi Delta for the Schenectady Inner City Thanks to all of our Ministry. The drive ·was contributors: conducted from Monday to (Due to limited space Friday last week in the College Concordiensis was unable Center, and the response was to print each individual name enthusiastic on all sides. which Delta-Psi-Delta People not only contributed s11bmitted. We apologize) their own f()Od, but also Special thanks to the Union donated money towards the College Bookstore, the sisters purchasing of items such as <>f Delta Delta .Delta, and all macaroni & cheese, canned tllose who contributed fruit, vegetables, soup, baby anonymously. Health Service will sponsor a BLOOD PRESSUR-E CLINIC Tues. Feb. 12 From 11 a.m. - 2 p.m. In the College Center Everyone Welcome! 4 -~ Delta-Psi-De~a Food Drive UnioYJ. College ~ r Career 1 j Development ~;·~-;.-~.· Center SENIORS!!! Are you having a tough time identifying potential employers, discovering the hidden job market, and keeping motivated during your job search? Do you wish you had some new ideas about career options, job opportunities, and how to get hired? RELAX! TheCDCisofferingaJOB SEEKERS: CLUB for students who flnd themselves in this situation. Join us for this four-session program designed to assist seniors in the tasks at hand (namely, those mentioned above!). The Job Seek- ers' Club will meet on the following Thursday afternoons at 3:00pm: February 14, 2~, 28 and March 7 in the CDC. Please sign up in the CDC. own organizations, such as Amherst's Women in Science. Dartmouth College has created the Women in Science program to consider science careers. African-American, Hispanic, and Asian women have joined to form a Women of Color organization at Yale. And many women point to women's studies courses and women's centers as evidence that they are h.aving an impact on the institutions. Women say traditionally male campuses have also given short shrift to the special heaHh and safety needs of women. Although many of the colleges that are marking 20 years of coeducaHon have sexual-assault awareness programs and employ sexual assault counselors, female students say the universities are behind most other coeduational institutions. Last month women at Brown University, frustrated by the institutions's policy on sexual assaults, listed on the walls of women's bathrooms the names of men they accused of raping women. Brown's president, V artan Gregorian, denounced the students' actions, but he also proposed ch.anges in university policies for dealing with sexual assaults on the campus. At Amherst, female students persuaded administrators to hire a health educator to help treat eating disorders such as anorexia and bulemia. The college also hired a sexual- harrassment counselor. At Amherst and other formerly all-male institutions, says Ms. Martinex, the college's associate dean of adrn issions, \Women's impatience is growing.\ She adds: \We're finally getting things that other institutions have had in place for a while.\ Multicultural Table Tomorrow Feb. 8tb. Topic: Terms Abroad and the Persian Gulf- Allies Views of Americans Speaker: Prof. William Thomas and two students. •Table open from 1:30-1 :30• o Talk 12:30-1 :00 o • Rm 302CC • ~Next \Table\ is on Thursday in Upper Dining Room!

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, February 7, 1991 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES. EYE ON THE WO,RL~o By ED MENKE ROAD TRIP TO CHERNOBYL? Back when the nuclear facility in Chemobyl suffered its horrific meltdown in April of 1986, rumors of glowing wildlife ad contaminated water were about as ,prevalent as manure at a zoo, and, according to Russia's Department of Tourism, just as foul. In fact, the Russian Government is now trying to lure tourists back to the once-unsafe city whose surroundings the government once shut down, devastating entire villages, towns, and communities. Chemobx~. iust,50 _m~le~_ a'Y~¥ fto~ _ Ki~Y:e~~<l n~ tb.e border between {Jkraine and ByelomsSta~ was the-., ce.nter of a contaminatiOn zone which reached twenty miles in diameter. Government officials who have had the tas~. pf.P.Q.licing the area admit thadnany peotile w.ho.u$td to live in an<L atoun<f:'C~emobyl are now relurriing tb what is now cosidered a safe environment. Due to this new safe image of Cbernobyl and the area directly northeast of the Kiev Reservoir, there bas been a new entrepreneurial hope of enticing ;people to visit the site of the disaster and to see how it is all back to normal today. No radioactive Absolut. no Beluga caviar with legs, just people living happily where disaster once struck. The first wave of tourists have teen mostly Russian, curious to sec what they might not have bee11 told all about. However, most excursions are trying to look outside Russia's borders, aiming at people who can afford to pump some foreign cwrency into Russia's failing economy. Included in the excursions, apparently. is a stop at Slavutich, a town near Chcmobyl of radiation workers, where the slogan is, \Life is good, but too short.\ As for me, I think that this idea of visiting a man-made disaster could be good if people use it to learn from past mistakes with the hopes of avoiding future ones. 'The official death toll from the Chcrnobyl explosion is listed at thirty-one, a number which represents the extreme perils which today's technologies offer us. To see Chernobyl and to learn from Chernobyl is one thing, but let's not start confusing \The City of Lights\ with what could be called \The City Which Naturally Glows.\ GOOD NEWS! Foreign language news programs will be shown in the Language Lab (HU 010). All are welcome to attend. Schedule: MONDAYS, WEDNESDAYS & FRIDAYS: FRE~CH 1:30PM GER.._,~~ 3:00 PM SPANISH 4:00 PM TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS: HEBREW 1:30 PM CHISESE 2:00 Pl\1 JAPA..\iESE 3:00 P:\.1 Come and watch the news! RUSSIA.'i 4:00 PM News programs are also transmitted from many other countries and will be recorded upon request. Faculty em: welcome to borrow tapes. Ordinarily, they are kept in the lab for two weeks. For more information, call Carol Snyder, Language Lab Technician, X6216. LAN'JUAGE LAB HOURS: MONDAY-FRIDAY 8.·30A.'vf-4:30PM SUNDAY-THURSDAY 7:00PM•9:00P:vt SociaJi 2ed Me.dic ine A nation's medical system reflects its personality RppJicqfions: There will 1>43 plenty of peopiEdn line for toda)\s Nanjing meeting. Attention: Adv~nturous Stuqents ' . . .. ' - 1 For those· who are adventtirous and would iike to participate in the experience. of a l_if~time, Union College has announced that it will be sending a group of students to Nanji!)g, China in the fall of1991: China, the ·\cradle ofcivilization,\ offers the curious student ruf abundance of.ex~iting and mind\\expanding opportunities.- Nanjing, once the home .of the Ming· Dynasty, and the· pre- revolutionary capital, is C()nsidered to be an important link between ancient and mooern Chinese culture. Thus, if you are interested in becoming a part of this term abroad, please come to an informational meeting on Thursday, Feb. 7, to Rm. 103 S.S.;, at 4:00: Refreshments, music and beautiful slides of China will be provided. COLLEGE SEMESTER ABROAD with the School for International Training INFORMATION MEETING FEBRUARY 12, 1:30PM HU Faculty Lounge Study Abroad with Beaver College 1991-1992 INFORMATION MEETING February 13, 1991 HU Faculty Lounge 9:30AM SUPPORT OF THE TROOPS IS NOT PROW AR. •• aii:a =I DEADLINE for UNION TERMS ABROAD APPLICA.TlONS . - ..... . lS Monday FEBRUARY 11 for Summer and all Fall Programs When you give blood you give another birth~ another anniversary, another laugh, another hug, another chance I.JU ~II - oue Feb II .\ ,. '

Page I() CONCORDIENSJS, February 7, 1991 - INTERNATIONAL FEATURES ' _____ _j EYE ON THE WORLD By ED MENKE ROAD TRIP TO CHERNOBYL? Back when the nuclear facility in Chemobyl suffered its horrific meltdown in April of 1986, rumors of glowing wildlife ad contaminated water were about as prevalent as manure at a zoo, and, according to Russia's Department of Tourism, just as foul. In fact. the Russian Government is now trying to lure tourists back to the once-unsafe city whose surroundings the government once shut down, devastating entire villages, towns, and communities. Chcrnobyl, just 50 miles away from Kiev ,and near tbe border between Ukraine and Byelorussia, was the center of a contamination zone which reached twenty miles in diameter. Government officials who have had the task of policing the area admit that many people who used to live in and around Chemobyl arc now returning to what is now cosidered a safe environment. Du~ to this new safe image of Chemobyl and the area directly non hcast of the Kiev Reservoir, there has been a new entrepreneurial hope of enticing people to visit the site of the disaster and to see how it is all back to normal today. No radioactive Ahsolut, no Beluga caviar with legs, just people living bappily v. here disa.,tcr once struck. The first wave of tourisl'i have been mostly Russian, curious to \c'c' what they might not have hccn told all about. However, most ,·,cursions arc tning to look outside Rusqa's borders, aiming at p~·(l(lk who can ailn;d to pump some foreign currency into Russia's !atlin~ economy. lnclULkd in the excursions, apparently, is a stop at Slavutich. a t<m:n near Chcmohyl or radiation workers, where tlh: ,Jogan i-.. \J.ifc is good. hut too o.;hon.\ :\~ for me. I think that this idea of visiting a m;.m-rnadc disaster nHI hi he good 1f people usc it to kam from pa;;t mistakes with the ll•lJk\ or a\oiding futur~.· Olh''· The official death toll from the ChLTIIOh) l explosion 1...; 1:.-,t..'d at thirty-one. a number which rc·procnb the cxtr.:mc p\.·rils which today's technologies offer us. To sec Chcrnobyl and to learn from Chcrnobyl is one thing, but kt's not start confusing \The City of Lights\ with what could be call~:J 'The City Which :\aturally Glows.\ GOOD NEWS! f, .... e.'~fr: L':.~·: .. (;_:_?t' r~t'!-\\~ rr·.~·rl;'n~ \\::: t-e s'ltH•; tn rJ:c~ Lu:;:•il/< L:h (11 C 0101 Sc!J,·dul~ \JO:o.;DAYS. WEO'-.'F.SD\YS & FRIDAYS: FRE~CH 1:30 P:\1 GLR:O.lA:'\ 3:00 P:'l-1 SPA:'\ISH 4:00 P:\1 lLESD:\'S & Tlll'RSD.\YS: HEBREW I :30 P:\1 CHI\\ESE 2:00 P:\1 JAPA-'ESE 3:00 P\1 Come and watch the news! Rl\SSL-\~ 4:00 P:\1 1\\Pv.S prugr.1ms are als,, transmuted from muny orhcr ruunrnes ao;d will be recorded upon request Faculty are welcome to rorro'> t<.~pes. OrJmaril_;. they are kept in the lab for tv.o weeks For more infonnatcon, call Carol Snyder, Language Lab hrhn!C!G'l. X62!6 L4 \\r:l ·.4r;F_ lAB J!OCRS ,\fO,\'JJ.-1 y. f Pi!JA }:' !l 30A.\1-4 .?nP.\f SCSDA Y 111/.'RSTJAY 7·00PM-9.00P,'v! 3ociali 2ed Medicine SuMMER 1fRM ASRCJ\0 A nation's medical system reflects its personality Applicqtions: 'f\ '!· _·,·,~ ' -I;, There will be plenty of people in line for today's Nanjing meeting. Attention: Adventurous Students J, For those who are adventurous and would like to participate in the experience of a lifetime, Union College has announced that it will be sending a group of students to Nanjing, China in the fall of 1991. China, the \cradle of civilization,\ offers the curious student an abundaHce of exciting and mind-expanding opportunities. Nanjing, once tile home of the Ming Dynasty, and the pre- revolutionary capital, is considered to be an important link between ancient and modem Chinese culture. Thus, if you are interested in becoming a part of this term abroad, please come to an informational meeting on Thursday, Feb. 7, to Rm. 103 S.S., at 4:00. Refreshments, music and beautiful slides of China will be provided. DEADLINE for COLLEGE SEMESTER ABROAD UNION w:L'l the School TERMS ABROAD for International APPLICATIONS 0 Training lS INFORMATION MEETING FEBRUARY 12 1:30PM Monday FEBRUARY 11 HU Faculty Lounge for Summer and all Fall Programs Study Abroad with Beaver College 1991-1992 INFORMATION MEETING February 13, 1991 HU Faculty Lounge 9:30AM SUPPORT OF THE TROOPS IS Naf PROW AR. When you give blood you give another birth~ another anniversary, another laugh, another hug, another chance. + Freneh Club 'Dates: Tod~y.(and every Tbwsday) from 4 p.m .. to 5 p .. m. Coffee Hour, CC in the back left comer (near the piano). Monday, February 18th: Manon of the Spring (a movie, with subtitles) <~.' JJU ~~ J - oue Fe.b II , at 7 n.m. CC 4th r Lounge~ .· .. ,· ·~~>.::::::{j;i-i=~'~ibi·: ·~;i';,;:i'· };::.~_:i::::::i:::~>; - -_- . - - •. - -- - .-_- ·~·- . '.- . -c- i~=::~::~!.(·.t;~:~:;~~~~::::::;:~=~n·.::=::::-KM:?::~ :-:-:-:-.:t~t:~::::~:~=:~~- ·:;:;::;N

CONCORDIENSIS, February 7, 1991 Page 11 Can you bowl? Be a part of Big Brothers and Big Sisters Bowf-a-thon on February 1 0. F,orm a team, get some sponsors ,and come bowling with usa Or s:ponsor who is ,bowlln,g .. Call the Agency at 37 4- 4523, or contact. Kelly McGowan 346-4722 or Julie Davis at 374-7504. LAST DAY TO WITHDRAW FROM COURSES FRIDAY 2/1'5 From January 21 to February 11 we will be interviewing five candidates for the open position in the Philosophy Department Try to meet them at the soup- kitchen and teaching demonstration or their lectures. Mrs. Snowden wiU have evaluation forms for you to record your opinions. Please give them to one of your four official student representatives: Amanda Arnonoff, Brian Desmarais, Sean Hornbeck, Meg Parsons. The Philosophy Department will be interviewing Prof. Neil Thomason, Vassar College, candidate for the philosophy position on Monday, February 4, 1991. There will be an informallWI.ch and classroom presentation entitled: ''Is Morality Just a Matter of Opinion?\ at 12:00 noon, Hale House Lower Lounge. There will be a public lecture entitled: \Baysean Subjectivism, Duhem's Problem, and the Sometimes Unavailability cf Subjective Probability\ in Humanities 110 at 4:00 P.M. Attention Students on Meal Plan: Students wishing to sign up, change or drop the Meal Plan for spring term should so so in the Dining Services Office, CC202, no later than February 15, 1991. In honor of Black History Month, the CDC sponsors: NE'JWORX, 'lNB Af''J:ER COLLEGE Monday, February 11 7:00PM Cabaret Room, College Center Representatives from three area Black Greek Alumni/ae chapters will address the importance of networking and social interaction after college. For more information, contact us at 370-6176 ~; $ ~~ The Department of the Arts and The Cabaret present !A [M~~[fu~ @~ ~©®~~§) starring Marlo Amendola Emily Baer Neil Kanterman Alison Kates Nat Keller Ruth Lerman Dave Lopiano Jonathan May Elanna Pollack Todd VanVoris Thursday, February 7th at 8:00PM in CC302 (The New Cabaret/Coffeehouse) Free Admission Refreshments will be served

CONCORDIENSIS, February 7, 1991 Page 11 Can you bowl? Be a part of Big Brothers and Big Sisters Bowl-a-than on :February 10. Form a team, get some sponsors and come bowling with us. Or sponsor who is bowling. Call the Agency at 374- 4523, or contact Kelly McGowan 346-4722 or Julie Davis at 374-7504. LAST DAY TO WITHDRAW FROM COURSES FRIDAY 2/15 From January 21 to February 11 we will be interviewing five candidates for the open position in the Philosophy Department. Try to meet them at the soup- kitchen and teaching demonstration or their lectures. Mrs. SnowdeR will have evaluation forms for you to record your opinions. Please give them to one of your four official student representatives: Amanda Amoru>ff, Brian Desmarais, Sean Hornbeck, Meg Parsons. The Philosophy Department will be interviewing Prof. Neil Thomason, Vassar College, candidate for the philosophy position on Monday, February 4, 1991. There will be an informal lunch and classroom presentation entitled: \Is Morality Just a Matter of O?inion?\ at 12:00 noon, Hale House Lower Lounge. There will be a public lecture entitled: \Baysean Subjectivism, Duhem's Problem, and the Sometimes Unavailability of Subjective Probability\ in Humanities 110 at 4:00 P.M. ·--~· ,;_· :--:-- .;..···:. .. ···•···· '·j;EEtl~MS ·· •,;tb MAlOttS . ·· '<JI, .. MTI:QS, CS RELATED ·' ·.·· .... · ALL MlUOKS .. ALL MAJORS CS, .·ALL MAJORS ·· ALL MAJOBS ££,'ME A~L MAJORS . ClBi J\¥. STUDIES .. •· >;.·,. U,ME ·· ··· ··· I£:11NCI: •·· • ., ....... ·.·.PATENT & tiillllfai:K· ., · .... · 'IE,·.ME -::=.-. ..- .. , ~ 2/27/91 3./26/91 2/22/91 2/14/91 2/25/91 :1/18/91 3/5/91 2/28/91 2/21/91 2/l()/91 3/6/91 3/6191 3/1/91 3/7/91 Attention Students on Meal Plan: Students wishing to sign up, change or drop the Meal Plan for spring term should so so in the Dining Services Office, CC202, no later than February 15, 1991. In honor of Black History Month, the CDC sponsors: N:E'JWOR:JG'LN6 A~T:ER CO.LL:Ea:E Monday, February 11 7:00PM Cabaret Room, College Center Representatives from three area Black Greek Alumni/ae chapters win address the importance of networking and social interaction after college. For more information, contact us at 370-6176 The Department of the Arts and The Cabaret present !A ~~~TJ~ @~j ~©~rftl®© starring Marlo Amendola Emily Baer Neil Kanterman Alison Kates Nat Keller Ruth Lerman Dave Lopiano Jonathan May Elanna Pollack Todd VanVoris Thursday, February 7th at 8:00PM in CC302 (The New Cabaret!Coffeehouse) Free Admission Refreshments will be served

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, February 7, 1991 Q[~rbirnsis LETTERS ----------------------------------------------------- -----Founded at Union College 1877--- Head East Young Man . The i~pact. of the Gulf Crisis has penneated nearly every . mdustry lffiagmable. Not only have airline industries eaten ten to thirty percent losses, but the tourism industry in the United Kingdom is suffering losses of more than twenty percent compared with last year's figures. Governments are now· counting on citizens' renewed sense of patriotism to boost sales in the tourism business. This disappointing scenario has spread to Union and is at this particular time, most visible in the terms abroad department. On an additionally disappointing note, at a time when the College is striving to increase the number of participants in tbese programs from forty to one hundred percent, the feasibility of actually doing so is becoming much. bleaker. Information meetings for the twelve terms abroad offered by the College were h~ld last week. Understandably, student turnout was not as strong as in the past. Specifically, student tum~ut for the se~e~ter in China was marked by only one candtdate. Does this 1mply fear of travelling due to current events, or lack of interest in studying a foreign culture? Hopefully, the answer rests with the former suggestion. The experiences gained from a tenn abroad, which are vocalized by scores of articles eacb term in the Concordiensis. as well as abundant student support are \~>nee in, a lifetime\ experiences. If I had a nickel for every picture I ve seen of a faraway castle or every tropical postcard I've received, cbances are, I could probably buy some of these places. The point is that there are obviously numerous advantages gained from studying abroad. Union offers wme excellent opportunities to learn about a culture other than our own. The rewards of actually doing this should be more apparent today than ever before. Many \experts\ on the Gulf Crisis pave stated that if Western nations had a true understanding of the Arab and Islam cultures, the current situation might not be nearly as severe as what it has become. Perhaps this is a word to the wise which came a little too late. The war is already here, and few are advocating taking time out to begin an in-depth study of the cultures we apparently know so little about. It's not however too late to express interest in a term aboard which you may be considering. Doing so may sound like a small factor in the big picture. But it would be ridiculous to let this serve as an excuse the next time we are faced with a similar sc! cf circumstances. A More Enlightened Rush With fraternity bids having gone out this week and sorority rush almost over, this seemed like a good time to reflect upon the changes that were made for this year's rush. In past years, rush had been during fall tenn~ when freshmen were unfamiliar with Greek life and oftentimes were unprepared to make a wise decision in that area. Last year, rush was moved back a few weeks and bids could not be accepted until winter tenn. This was a step in the right direction. This year, rush did not begin until winter tenn, a move that was overdue and very welcome. Upon arrival at a campus with a prominent Greek system, freshmen have an understanding of fraternities and sororities based largely on the myths and exaggerations found in the movies. Word of mouth and some firsthand exposure to the houses quickly modifies those preconceptions, but a real idea of what Greek life is all about cannot be attained in a few short weeks, especially at a ti'lle when many other adjustments are also being made. Most freshmen have adapted to the academic and social changes to collegiate life by the middle or end of fall tenn. All the while, they have been meeting and gaining real impressions of fraternity and sorority members in a relaxed and natural context. When winter tenn and fonnal rush have arrived, it is therefore easier for the freshmen to have confidence in their opinions about the houses they rush. For the Greeks, they know that once bids are accepted, it will be much easier for ; the prospective members to balance academics and other· extracurricular activities with new responsibilities to the fraternity or sorority. 1 This year's rush calendar meets all sensibilities: it makes for an enlightened rush while still affording those who opt for. Greek life the benefits of almost four years in a fraternity or sorority. In light of all the decisions by the Administration concerning Greek life that have come under fire, this is one . change that deserves accolades. 'ACC Inaccuracies Corrected To the Editor: I was pleased to see your coverage of the issue of the GMI extension programs (Concordiensis Jan. 31). I believe strongly in bringing curricular issues into the public arena for debate. Unfortunately, the article included some important inaccuracies, which I'd like to correct 1) By stating that President Hull \announced plans to shut down\ these programs, you badly misstate the nature of the 'l~oli.cymaking process. President Hull presented a ,proposal to AAC, which commented on and modified it Far from being \finalized before President Hull addressed the AAC,\ this decision is not yet final, and will not be until the President makes it. 2) The article tells your readers that this was a very controversial issue: \... three distinct groups formed amongst AAC members ... \; \ ... The topic caused so much friction amongst the members ... that the committee's regdarly scheduled meeting time was changed so that a certain member would no longer be able to attend meetings.\ This is complete and utter hogwash. AAC was in virtually unanimous; our vote was 9 to 1. The \certain member,\ Ellen Matloff, would have been happy to tell you that scheduling conflicts, not infighting, shifted our meeting time, and that AAC's final action accorded completely with her own position. 3) If I were President Hull, I'd feel personally insulted by the notion, advanced at the end of the article, that he would place the interests of Marist or some other school ahead of his commitment to Union and our students. The idea is absurd on its face. I understand that journalists thrive on controversy, but this article finds friction where none exists. This was never a very contentious issue. In the end, AAC and Administration achieved a high degree of consensus over it. It would be negligent of me as AAC chair not to correct the record on this matter. Sincerely, Bruce L. Reynolds Chair,.AAC Order of the Engineer To the Editor: National Engineers Week will be celebrated during the Week of February 18, and Professor Rudy Eggert has again agreed to be the Union College Program Chairman. One event will be the initiation of new members of the Order of the Engineer, which is an organization founded to foster the spirit of pride and responsibility in the profession. This year's initiation will be led by mechanical Engineering Chainnan Frank Milillo in the Hale House at 7:45 PM on Letters to the Editor do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the Editorial Board AIL LETTERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED AND SUBWTT.ED TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00 P.M. ON THE TUESDAY PRECEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LETIERSAND 1HOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED. Wednesday, February 20, and will be followed by a reception. Local Sections of the Order are called Links. The Union Link was formed in 1989 under the leadership of Engineering Student Eric Dykstra and Dean of Engineering Larry Hollander. who is the keeper of the membership records and rings. Each new member pledges to uphold the ethical standards of engineering with \integrity fair dealings, tolerance and respect,\ and receives the symbolic stainless steel band to be worn on the little finger of the working hand. Membership, which is voluntary and for life, should be considered by all Engineering Seniors and faculty members. A one time fee of $10 pays for membership, certificate and ring. No advance signup is required, but additional information can be obtained by contacting Civil Engineering Professor Greg Gifford or Dean of Engineering Larry Hollander. Respectfully submitted, Frank. Wicks Mechanical Engineering

CONCORDIENSlS, February 7, 1991 Page 13 LETTERS Personal Contact From a Fighting Dutchman To the College Community: I would like to thank those teachers and friends who have given me encouragement over the years I have been at Union. I ~tpologize to those people who I did not get to see or say goodbye to before I left. I wish I cculd: have seen everybody but .r did not have the time. I'm sorry. I will miss everyone. I would like to reiterate what I said at the Vigil on Tuesday ni~ht (14 Jan); that whether you are for or against the war do not forget the soldiers fighting over in the Middle East and when they come back do not treat :them the way people treated the Vietnam veterans. It Is good to remember that it is not the individual soldier who makes the decision to go to war but the Government we elected that sends our yo1.1ng men ad women into battle; Professor Burke, as a student in your WWII Era class, you can look at the seat which is now ,empty in your classrom and reflect on whether you still advocate this war. I remember your talk to tile class one Monday night, for an hour on the subject - perhaps that recognition that people around you may be affected, the number of young men and women who will have .already died, closer to your doorstep. W()lud you tell your son to volunteer? For those I h.ave been unable t(l write to individually I apolo8ize and will try to in the near future. F()r now I will say what ~ittle I can about my status. I .arn a tactical communicaticns section chief in A Co., 365th Combat {Heavy) Engineer Bn. I am currently at Ft. Indiantown Gap, PA, undergoing mobilization processing and training. Our departure date from the U.S. is unknown (but will be prior to\late\ February) as is our deployment location \within country\ (meaning Saudi Arabia or Kuwait depending on what occurs between now and then). Things are going very well and I am with one of the best Engineer Battalions in this ARCOM (Anny Command). The people I work for and the people who work for me are all very competent. This unit shall prove to be very successful with whatever mission it is given. Morale is good all around and people are ready to go, only to get it over with and come horne that much sooner. For those who wish to write my address is: SSG Hardy, William R.' 277-74-6050 A Co., 365th Eng. Bn., Hq. Plt Bldg 9-11 FIG Anneville, PA 17003 Any mail sent to this address will follow me overseas when I deploy. Any further information about my status can be found by asking a member of the Kappa Alpha Society. Take Care all, SSG Bill Hardy UnionCollege '91 Work Collectively For Peace Invaluable and Meaningless? T<> the Editor: OURSELVES FORGET. To the Editor: information is not valuable or meaningful.\ I am writing today to show my utmost appreciation to the many individuals and departments on our campus who have selflessly contributed time, money and support to the \I>eace Movement\ at Union. 'This movement has not been a p<>litical movement, but rather it has been restating the love that all of us have for our troops and for ultimate peace. One of the most important goals of this movement is to keep the campus community informed in this time of war, and to keep the war fresh in our minds -- WE CANNOT LET Some of the .projects that have already been undertaken are the candlelight vigil in library plaza. the peace flame suspended outside the College Center, the television next to the infonnation booth, and the yellow and black ribbon campaign, just to name a few. Yet our work is. far from over. We are in need of more manpower to llelp us achieve our goals. I am appealing to all the members of the College community who support om· troops and who love peace to please get involved. There is so much more to do, so many aspects that we need help with. We are hoping to organize weekly candlelight vigils, to kee.p the peace flame lit eternally, to get the entire campus wearing ribbons and to organize many other activities to help keep the members of our community aware. I wonder what parents would say if, when asked annually for $15,420, their son or daughter said, \I believe that If I were a parent, I don't thillk I'd give them the money. Karen J. Schaefer '91 If you would like to contribute time, energy, money or ideas to our cause it would be greatly appreciated. Please get in touch with me at Box 1170 or ring me at 370-6844. Multicultural Table To the Editor: Without yow help our cause might fail. With love and peace in my heart, Greg Mishkin '92 Continuing the theme for this term, the Multicultural Table and the Dean of the Faculty will be sponsoring another talk related to the issues of the Persian Gulf. Americans' reactions to the Middle East and travel\ will be discussed, Next week the Multicultural Table will be permanently changed to Thursdays and will be held in the upper dining room in the College Center. The presentation will be related to Black History Month. TEACH FOR AMERICA TEACH FOR AMERICA HAS OPENED A SECOND APPLICATION PERIOD FOR INTERESTED STUDENTS. On February 8th the issue will relate to terms abroad. Topics like \What factors must be considered when going abroad\ and \What do some Europeans think about Sincerely, John R. Sowa Prof. of Chemistry APPLICATION PACKAGES ARE AVAILABLE A1' THE CDC AND MUST BE POSTMARKED BY MARCH 1, 1991. EARLY SUBMISSION IS ENCOURAGED. TEACH FOR AMERICA IS PLACING PEOPLE IN NEW YORK CITY LOS ANGELES, NEW ORLEANS, BATON ROUGE, RURAL GEORGIA ANn RURAL NORTH CAROLINA. ADDffiONAL SITES INCLUDE: OAKLAND HOUSTON, MIAMI, Tiffi RIO GRANDE VALLEY OF TEXAS AND ' POSSIBLY WASHINGTON DC, PIDLADELPHIA, OR THE MISSISSIPPI DELTA REGION OF ARKANSAS. . .JAZZ CLEDPATRA 12.95 by Phyllis Rose This stunning biography of Josephine Baker captures the essence of the famous singer and the cultural and historical circumstances that shaped her life. An intimate portrait of a poor black g.i.rl who parlayed her charm and vivacity into stardom. l?CiERFUL DAYS: 'l'HE CIVIL RIGITS 1'HCmXiRAPHY OF CllM,LES ~RE 24.95 by Michael s. Durham FEBRUARY IS BLACK HISTORY MONTH~ A NATION-WIDE EFFORT TO INCREASE AWARENESS OF THE HISTORY AND CULTURE WORK A historic collection of civil rights photographs from the most influential photographer of that era. The images will fascinate those who lived through the 60s and help enlighten a younger generation eager to learn. Introduction by Andrew Young. OF AFRICAN-AMERICANS. WE BELEIVE THAT READING IS ONE OF THE BEST WAYS TO DO THIS. THESE AND OTHER FINE TITLES ARE NOW AVAILABLE AT THE COLLEGE BOOKSTORE AND WE INVITE YOU TO COME CELEBRATE THIS \HERITAGE IN PRINT\ WITH US. PARrJ:Ni 'lHE WATERS: AMERICA. IN 1HE .!01\G YEARS 14.95 by Taylor Branch A rich epic of the American civil rights movement and Dr. Martin Luther King, Jrg Here is a vivid tapestry of our nation, torn and finally transfonned by a revolutionary struggle unequaled since the Civii. War. m SFJ\RCH OF f«JJHER' S G1\RDm.l' 9.95 by Alice Walker Alice Walker's first collection of non-fiction \womanist\ essays explore black women's relationship with the world around them. EYES (])l THE PRIZE 10. 95 by Juan Williams A documentary in pictures and words of the great events of the Civil Rights Movement, from Birmingham to the Freedan Riders to the politicians in Washington, D.C. LET THE TRlMPET saJND: THE LIFE OF MARriN LU'1HER K.Il'G, JR. 4.95 by Stephen B. Gates The life of Martin Luther King, Jr. compiled by the celebrated biographer. The story of a great rran in the struggle toward freedan. BEIOIJED 5 • 95 by Toni Morrison An illustration of the legacy of slavery. Set in rural O~o after the C~vil War, Beloved is a p:>rtrait of a haunted runaway slave. Winner of the 1988 Pulitzer Prize for f~ctLon. THE A.UJ.'CEI(X;RAPHY OF MALCDIM X 5. 95 by l.t!alcoJm X An established classic , remains a powerful, brilliant, painful, angry book by perhaps the most dynamic leader of the black in .Mlerica. 'lHE ~ IS MY LIFE 12.95 by Nelson Mandela Writing and speeches plus actual accounts pulled together to provide a revealing story of this black hero's life. This new edition includes four speeches following Mandela's release from prison in February 1990 .

Page 14 COJYCORDIENSIS, Februt~ry 7, 1991 LETTERS \ALAS\ Alas To the Editor: 1 am deeply concerned about ALAS' decision to invite K wame Ture to participate in their celebration of Black History Month. My concern turned to anger when I discovered that the group was also seriously considering the Rev. Louis Farakhan. How does a Jew interpret these actions and deliberations. Both men are bright, rousing speakers who bring a message of \empowerment\ to Afro- American and Latino students. They may help to instill a sense of mission and .pride. Clearly, one can appreciate the desire of these students to be moved, and to gain a greater and deeper appreciation of their heritage. However, these are not the only people capable of conveying understanding or pride. Importantly, their past message of empowerment for Afro-Americans have been tainted by anti-semitic and \anti-zionist\ attacks which have fanned anti-Jewish feelings in the Afro-American community. Ironically, not more than a few weeks ago Afro-Americans and Jews (and others, of course) joined hands in Albany to protest the KIQC's bigoted call to abolish Martin Luther King Day in the state. Now ALAS bas chosen to invite one speaker and consider another whose agenda may be marked by another form of bigotry. And what timi11g! Ture may choose to present his anti- zionist line while Jewish n brothers and sisters\ are bombed in their homes, forced to carry gas masks to their markets and schools, and miss sleep at night waiting for the frequent calls to cover. Some claim that Ture's message is \only\ anti-Israel, not anti- Jewish. However, it is dear that he offends us and that his statements are often designed to drive a wall between Afro- American and Jewish students. Certainly, ALAS must be aware that Rev. Farakhan's remarks are clearly anti- semitic. Calling for the dismantling of Israel or referring to our religiom :as a \gutter\ religion strikes at our heart. Israel is the only reliable refuge where the persecuted Jew can be assured a home. Even the United States is Ullable to absorb the thousamcls of persecuted Soviet Jews or starving Ethiopian Jewish refugees that Israel willingly accepts. Questioning Israel's existence indeed challenges Jewish survival. While it may be incorrect to assume that only tho~ under The Philosophy Department will be interviewing Susan Dwyer, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, candidate for a Philosophy position on Monday, February 11, 1991. There will be an informal lunch and classroom presentation entitled: \The Problem of Personal Identity\ at 12:00 noon, Hale House Lower Lounge. There will be a public lecture entitled: \Knowledge and Knowing\: Two Arguments\ in Humanities 110 at 4:00 P.M. attack sense the attack, I have been told by Afro-American students that 1 cannot feel the oppression that surrounds them. Similarly, I cannot imagine that they cao place themselves in the position of a people whose population was devastated only 50 years .ago (six million killed), and whose population today numbers less than 15 million, and: whose sister country and refuge is smaller than the state of Connecticut. Indeed, we too, feel very vulnerable. We must acknowledge our differences, argue over them, and even get angry with one another. But, we must :00 so in arenas which expand our understanding of one another's perspective without sacrificing one another's dignity. I am afraid that the speaker chosen, and the one contemplated, contribute more to distrust than understanding. There are many common causes to which.both minodties can direct their energies. e.g:, the .plight of starving Ethiopians, or the hate campaign of the KKK. l:lowever, the effort to join in comme11 battles will surely be eroded' if we invite and applaud speakers who carry messages that u:ndermine the security of the otller group. Ultimately, the more we contribute to the erosiDn ()f the other group's legitimate and sincere interests, the m()re we benefit those who · seek 'Our mutual destruction. 'l'o change the tone. I thank those members of ALAS who did meet with me to discuss Jewislt concerns, and I do encolJl'llge all members of the community to take advantage of tb~ rest of the . very interesting offering marking Black History month. Repectfully, Seth Greenberg We Care About You To the College Community: The cups have arrived! The reusable plastic mugs that each student will find in their mailbox this week is a gift provided by the We Care About U group. These mugs are to be used on campus in place of the disposable cups that have been traditionally used. Fraternities are no longer allowed to supply cups to guests under the order of the Interfraternity Council. Use your cup. Use it at social events, use it in the College Center, and use it in the dining hall. These cups are being distributed in order to heighten environmental awareness on campus. Any reusable cup can be used on campus to help reduce waste. Please be aware of how much waste will be reduced with the implementation of these cups. Re)>lacement cups and extras win be available for a marginal fee from the We Care About U gro11p. Information regarding how to get these extra cups will be available at a later date. Cu:ps will be delivered to professors and administrators at their departments. We hope to distribute a cup to everyone on campus. This project will only succeed if the community want:s it to succeed. Please mak~ the initial effort to make this work. The effort is a small one, a11d the value of that effort will be a large one. Thank you, Pete Cowles We Care About U Plateful Responds To the Editor: \The Plateful of Questions\ Committee would like to address the responses evoked by the advertisements for the topic \Does Diversity Scare You?\ \Plateful of Questions\ is exploring the topic of diversity over a five-week period by addressing specific topics such race, gender, politics, class, religion and sexuality. The pupose of these 'non- polemical' discussions is not to debate, but rather to address eaclt issue by speaking directly from individual experiences. Tile hope in this is that we can teacil and learn from each other in a:n atmosphere created by mutual respect. Sincerely, '\The Plateful of Questions\ Committee Do you have a bad case of eyelid malfunction in the A.M.? Get ~iJ@x~srk®@J with some &SliOcs[k fi© 2f©MCF crO[OO chow. at the Dutch Hollow Restaurant Serving full breakfasts from: 8:30 - 10:30 we-ekdays 9:00 - 11 :30 weekends . !l I

l\ I CONCORDIENSIS, February 7, 1991 Page 15 \r\brtl1 Saving. Beware of Commercial Environmental Hypocrisy By J{URT EBNER Recently, mi)Ily companies have. changed the~ packaging in order to confol1ll to the popular voice, The pubhc has become incre~ingly aware of environmental problems and has ~gun to demand environi'I\en~ly safe. prod11cts. Many .compames have respondeq_~-~~def!.)ipld~Ho~ev~r~le~ u~11otbe fooled. They have ch~nged, but . there 1s .sttll plenty o~ room for improvement Compapies such as McDonalds, Price Choppe~, · and eveil .h\undry detergent companies have altered their business p,ractices Jo help the environment. Although they have bent to meei ppblic concerns, they have yet to fulfill their promise to _help the environment. . The fast food industry should be put under Immense pressure because of the nature of their business. They have been applal1ded by· many for their. recent efforts to crc.ate environmental awareness on their placemats, through pilot polystryene recycling programs in ~ew England. Yet, when you look at the entire fast food busme~s, t~ey seem to. have overlooked the fact that fast food-- w1th ~tsposable d_tshes, silverware, and superfluous paper advertisements-- IS the furthest thing from environmen~ly sound. Th~y have not ~y~~ ~~.1:1~ tl}~.joq 1 iq~eir ,goalt~.toreach.e~vtromnentally .. iespoiisibfe ·ground. McDonalds uses recyclable bags, but ~he bags themselves, we should remember, end up in the landfill. They have been convert~ng to p~perboard to replace the polystyrene environmentahsts despised, yet, that, too, all ends up in the garbage heap. Also, the paperboard would have to be coated with plastic, making it virtually unrecyclable: ano~er environmentalllightmare. The best bet for the fast f~. chams would be use washable dishes for the food eaten ~ns1de ~e restaurant, considering the fact that much of the~r food. IS consumed on the premises. Consumers should thm~ twice before eating at fast food establishments, remembermg that while they ehurn the food out quickly, and conveniently, they fill up our dumps equally as fast! . . Price Chopper may not be the first place ?ne mtght thmk of that would change its ways to help the envrronment, but they are an important factor when you look at what you can do to help. We all go to the grocery store every .now and then. It has become a given that they bag your grocenes and then yo~ pay for them. In many markets, they ask you, paper or plastic. At Price Chopper, they assume plastic because it.sa~s on the bag that you should recycle the bag in one of thetr bms. In truth, paper is not better for the environment, because they are also very tough to break down (especially in modern landfills tht are designed to keep out water!) Paper bags are not made from recycled :paper because they would not be strong enough to hold the groceries. The best bet would be not to use ~ bag at all. Bring a box. to the store if yo11know you are ge~ng a lot of groceries or just ask for no bag if you are gettmg a few things. Even at our own bookstore, you are alm~st frowned upon if you request no bag-- and they rarely ask If you want one or noL If you do not need a bag, make sure you say so. The commercial world has not fully become aware of the necessity for recycling and reduction of waste. Environmentally conscious demand has reached many companies but has no effect on others. Laundry detergents are now being sold in refillable cartons, so that you do. not ha~e to buy another plastic J. ug. At the same time, compames con~nue · · all ka (\single to come out witll new products tn sm er pac ges size- microwaveable!\) made of plastic and poly~tyrene. we can help by supporting those compames ~ho have adopted new packaging fonns for the ~e of the en~tron~ent. But Remember U! Don't be fooled with slogans hke, new. environmentally sound packaging!\ Use common ~ense. Companies will change-- but probably not until our consumption habits do. EARTH DAY • EVERY DAY NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION . 1400 16th Street NW, ~shington, DC 20036·2266 • ENVIRONMENTAL Recycle Plastics By AMY DILLENBACK Associate Environmental Editor On a per-capita basis, each of us added 115 pounds of plastic to the municipal stream in 1988. Plastic is considered such a necessity in our daily lives. We use plastic not only for store packaging but also for such things as car fenders, computer housings, telephones, dolls, agricultural films, furniture, and stick-on fingernails. Packaging accounted for 28% of our plastics use in 1988. \\:'here ~e we to dispose of all thts plastic once we are through with it? We think it's so much easier to just throw it out, rather than to recycle it. Contrary to popular belief, recycling plastic is easy once it has been separated by type. Different plastics have different chemical makeup and are most valuable when they are separated. Sorting the mo~e than 10 million tons of plastic that's discarded is often the task of the recycling center workers, who sort the vast amounts by band. To make things easi~r. legislation required a stamped- on code on plastic products indicating the type of plastic they consisted of. This · is usually in the shape of the \recyclng triangle\ with a number in the middle designating the type of plastic. However, some containers currently go uncodcd. Several manufacturers are interested in recycling, in part due to the improvements in the technology of processing waste plastics. Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co., Mobil Corp., and Eastman Kodak have all set up plastics-recycling research programs and pilot plants recently. DuPont Co. and Waste Management Inc., a large hazardous waste and refuse hauling company, established a joint venture to recycle two types of plastic-- polyethylene terephthalate (PET), the plastic found in soda and vegetable oil bottles and high density polyethylene (HDPE), the kind of plastic which is found in milk and detergent jugs. Many companies now have entered the world of recycling and ironically, the companies demand for used soda and milk bottles is exceeding the ability of local communities and recycling groups to provide them. Nationwide, some 570 companies now buy collected bottles and containers, and about 150 companies tum old plastic ;nto pellets or new products such as carpet, paint containers, tennis balls, combs, plastic lumber, and engine-oil bottles. Denni ~ Sabourin, vice-president of Wellman, Inc., a company that is the nation's largest user of recycled plastic, supports this gesture by claiming that \there are plenty of end uses for recycled plastic.\ Plastics make up a little over 7% of the solid waste that Americans throw away every year. While the rate of plastic recycling is currently small, new community \curbside\ programs ar starting almost daily. Newspaper articles are numerous with recycled plastic stories. Companies are more involved with the process of recycling plastics and using recycled plastics. The exposure of recycling plastic is increasing. Although plastic has become an essential material we use every day, whether it be in computers or contact lenses, we need to recycle this valuable resource. To ignore the ecological problems that could arise by not recycling plastic is the worst thing we could do for our environment.

Page 16 CONCORDJENSIS, February 7, 1991 ~-:...:::;;~·;~~-~-----A_R_T_S_&_E_N_T_E_R_T_A_IN_M_E_N_T_' -----:-~-·~,...,~,..;;:.... Better Than Bran:: The WRUC Record Reviews By RON EUGENIO Morrissey-Bona Drag (Sire) There's a popular joke going around northern England; \Knock Knock,\ \Who's There?\ \Morrissey.\ \Morrissey who?\ \Exactly.\ Five years ago; a small pop combo called The Smiths (heard of 'ern?) conquered the universe with such optimistic, life-affirming albums like The Queen Is Dead and Me at Is Murder. Their gloom ruled, and was at its apex when Morrissey proclaimed ''I'm the son and heir of nothing in particular,\ while his bandmate /genius Johnny Marr laid down the most unforgettable guitar riffs. Now with the Man- chester scene and its \Summer of Love\ attitude, and Marr doing fine with The Pretenders and the The, Morrissey's guise switched from the brilliant poet to the boring pixie ... To Be Smashed. Bona Drag, a collection cf Morrissey's solo singles from 1987 to present, supports both sides of the argument. It's a common fact that Morrissey doesn't write music -- he can't even read notes -- so while his lyrics remain encased in a mausoleum burning eternal black (in other words. he's a sad guy) it's the music that delivers the variable. If ycu want to get as close as possible to old Smiths, \Suedehead\ and \Every Day Is Like Sunday\ HOROSCOPES BY ZOLA CAPRICORN: The week ahead should be a profitable one for you, both fmancially and socially. So take advantage of situations in order to reap the rewards. Lucky day: Monday. AQUARIUS: You have been acting impulsive lately, which co11ld get you into trouble if you go too far. Set limitations for yourself so that you don't lose control. Lucky day: Wednesday. PISCES: Something has been bothering you on and off for quite some time now, and you just can't seem to shake it The best remedy for feeling aggravated or down is to occupy yourself with other things , and remember that tomorrow is another day. Lucky day: Friday. ARIES: You have been noticing a positive change in attitude in. yourself, and people around you are beginning to pick up on it as well. Keep it up ... good things are on their way for you. Lucky day: Sunday. _ TAURUS: Have you been in limbo for the past few weeks? Undecided about relationships and job opportunities, and not keeping up in classes? Suddenly things will become ordered again, so don't worry. Lucky day: Tuesday. LEO: It's time to admit you're feelings to someone who you've been holding back from. There is no reason to be afraid, because the response you will receive will be positive. Lucky day: Thursday. GEMINI: This week is a good one to rest and take it easy. Rent a movie and hang out with friends ... you need some quiet time after being asked to do too many things last week. Lucky day: Sunday. CANCER: After days of over analyzing a relationship, you will fmally see it's true colors come out this weekend. Be prepared for nothing ... and everything. Lucky day: Thursday. VIRGO: Your friends have been wondering what you are up to, and are feeling left out of a lot of what you have been doing. Take time this weekend to patch things up socially. Lucky day: Saturday. LIBRA: This week will prove very interesting in many re5pccls. To quote BaL.ooka. \What you think won't happen wilL\ Lucky day: Frid1y. SCORPIO: This weekend is the time to make your move. Go after that goal, and you will feel infinitely better about everything. Lucky day: Friday. SAG ITT ARll\S: As you start feeling better and less pressured all around, you will be able to concentrate on getting your social life back into tip-top shape. It's a weekend of non-stop celebrating for you. Lucky day: Saturday. H E L E L A I A R S R A T E E A S Wednesday: The Princess Bride CC Aud. 7:30 and 9:30 The Gladstones-Jeremy (Tall) i\ a:nd ''Top of the World\ are tr.ill.IIlphs of happiness over re])utation. However, after two cr three listens, the formulas and the patterns are easily hea.rcl. So why do something wlte11 it has been done before? Tiley get away with jt because offer incredible simulations. \Interesting Drug\ steals the quick shuffle beat popular in dance halls these days, and \Last of the Famous International Play boys\ is the perfect dedication to men who still wear polyester and like to do the hustle. Everything else here is a sad display of a sickingly stagnant lyricist trying desperately to bring back the masses who once adored him. \Ouija Board, Ouija Board\ says it best; \Ouija Board, will you help me? /Because I can't find my place in this world.\ Well, a new album, Uncle Kill, is due in a few weeks. We'll see if there's a place left. Spin magazine put it best; \lf you like R.E.M., you'll love this band.\ St~ped in that all too popular College circuit guitar jangle, The Gladstones give their audience the solidly American, Rickenbacker- inspired movement pioneered way back when with the Byrds, then picked up and moved to a mass audience in the form of R.E.M. 's Chronic Town. For those not familiar with the sound, Jeremy will serve as an unimposin:g, friendly collection of songs crafted in a kinder, gentler nation (so why was this made in America?) of tb.eir enthusiasm involved. They approach their craft in the .same way as the Feelies; tlle:y':re just so happy to be playing on a record, it isn't necessary to brood like a poet. jump on the beat box ' b:andwagon, or get lost in a clolld of dry ice. WORK • EXPERIENCE: JD) ((}) N o 1r ILJEAVJE CC(())JLILJECGrJE w JI 1r lEI ((J) llJ 1r II1r2 Visit the Career Development Center, and learn how summer jobs and internships can provide the experience you need when you begin your career search. Third Floor Old Chapel 370-6176 The songs are inevitably love songs, .and inevitably written in the same way. \mary Run , The Rescuers 1:-:\ The Drifters White Fang Green Card The G~dfather ·:-· iif; . Lionheart 111ley're so happy, it gets llllder your skin after a while. IBy othe time the second side is · ·P''laying, ·though, itching h·emmes fun.- Once Around .. AHe·e Popcorn - l. ~ . Home Alone Dances with Wolves A-wJt ~:ep,~n gs Kindergarten Cop CatriPns: , Mo .' B·'·e,··t·t- .e-.····r·-····B,·,·-\'1--· ··-·-e,··,s,·' .,. - ' •'·' ,. ·_ . •\. ·:. : . ·--· . . ' ,-, .· 7, 9, l,l•) .. A Call For Papers~ for the Union College Undergraduate Review of Humanities and Social Sciences The Union College Undergraduate Review, a forum for undergraduate writing in the Humanities and Social Sciences, would like to provide you with the opportunity to publish your papers and actively encourages your submissions. Any Humanities or Social Sciences paper written by an undergraduate (including foreign exchange students) will be considered. Submissions should be sent to: Box 259 Union College Schene ___ ctady, NY 12 :}()g The deadline is March 4, 1991. Take advantage of this opportunity to achieve recogniti()n for your work! \ '·

~ II l CONCORDIENSIS, February 7, 1991 Page 17 Multicultural Table Tomorrow.· Feb. 8th The Committee for ~upgrading Resid:ential Life at Union is looking for i:nlput from aU :m,em,b.ers of ·the Topic: Terms Abroad and th-e Persian Gu If. College C,ommunity. Send responses to Box 2224. SENIOR PRINTING DAY CHUC ROOM, HUMANITIES BASEMENT EVERY S~'.rtJRD:A'! 1 12: 00-6: 0·0 PM Free Println= on R.aln.bGws Free lma~tNI'iter copies _ JJ r ~ SPECfAL RA'l'ES On Mac Laser Printer for Seniors om Saturday '109a page $5.00 maximum per day Allies Views of Americans Speaker: Prof. William Thomas and two students. Table open from 11.30-1:30 0 • Talk: 12:30-1:00 Rm. 302CC. Note.· Next \Table\ is on Thursday in Upper Dining Room. Wnion CoUtgt jfacultp ~olloquium MARTHA D1 HUGGINS ROGER THAYER STONE PROFESSOR OF SOCIOLOGY & ANTHROPOLOGY AND ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF SOCIOLOGY \Political Policing: u.s. Training of Latin Amerjcan Police and the National SecuritY State\ Tuesday, February 26th at 4:30 P.M. College Center Auditorium Coffee and Tea at 4:00 P.M. ALL ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND . . ··················~························~·~~·········· SUMMER JOBS AND INTERNSHIPS INTERNSIUPS NYS ASSEMBLY SUMMER INTERN PROGRAM AT THE CAPITAL- ALBANY, NY- Assernbl~ Summer Interns complete full-time professional assignments with Assembly research staff units. In addition, they explore the dynamics of state government and the legislative process during weekly seminars. Available to juniors and seniors. Deadline: March 15. 1991. NATIONAL LEGAL AID & DEFENDER ASSOCIATION- In Washington D.C. NLADA is a private, n<>n-profit, national organization dedicated to developing and supporting lligll quality legal help for poor people in America. Interns will be assigned to assist NLADA's fundraising and public relations operation. Deadline: March 15.1991. LOBSENZ-STEVENS INC. PUBLIC RELATIONS- In New York, New York. The intern's responsibilities will include media contact and research projects with the possibility of 'Writing feature articles and press releases. Available to junior and seniors. WEDIKO CHILDREN'S SERVICES- In Boston, MA. Wediko conducts an intensive, short-term residential psycho-educational program for emotionally disturbed children every swnmer. The Summer clinical interns work with 4 or 5 other adults to form a treatment team and direct a small group of special needs population. SUMMER .lOllS YANKELOYICH, CLANCY, SHULMAN - In Westport, CT. A marketing position for college junior and seniors. Available to liberal arts majors. , JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY- Resident Advisors, Teaching Assistants, and Lab i Assistant p()sitions to help staff their summer programs are available to undergraduate students. \ '. '. \· r~ L NANNIE NETWORK, INC. - In Fairfield County, Connecticut and parts of New York. Summer job for a person interested in becoming a nannie. A nannie is an individual primarily respCJnsible for childcare with some selected household responsibilities. *For more in::f()rmation c<>me to the Career Development Center located on the Third Floor of Old Chapel.

Page 18 CONCORDIENSIS, February 7, 1991 CAMPUS NEWS --·----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- =======~=! LENTEN PROGRAM - CLUB NEWS NEWMAN CLUB ACTIVITIES CONFIRMATION- Thurs- day, April 18th Bishop Hubbard will be at St. John's to confer the Sacrament of Confirmatiol!. Any Union student who wishes to be Confirmed must contact Sr. Joan as soon as possible. There will be 7 meetings scheduled during the weeks of February 11, I 8, 25, March 4, and 11 and breaking for exams, etc. until April 1 and 8. NEWMAN--SUPPE'ifs--: Tuesday, February 12th at 5 p.m. we will gather for supper and conversation with President · Roger H. Hull. All are welcome. Go through upper dining and bring tray to CC203. ASH WEDNESDAY February 13th at 4:30 p.m. there will be an ecumenical prayer service with the distribution of Ashes in Memorial Chapel. Gloria Korsman. Assistant Protestant Chaplain and Sr. Joan Catholic Chaplain will lead the service. Six Wednesdays of Lent from 12:15 to 1 p.m. in CC404 Sister Joan will facilitate a Lenten program \Parables and Prayers for Lent.\ These six original stories by Father Edward Hays, director of a contemplative center in Easton, Kansas will touch and challenge you and make the Lenten message come alive in a powerful way. Bring a brown bag lunch. Hot water will be available. All are welcome. FOLK GROUP - Singers and musicians interested in being part of the music ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Sunday Mass please meet at 6:30 p.m. in St. John's church to rehearse. TUTORING Union students who are interested in tutoring please contact Barbara Cash, Box 279, Tel: 386-4181. CLASSIFIEDS WAKE-N-BAKE! ! Spring Break '91 in Jamaica/Cancun from $459.0()!. l A week of fun and sun at this year's hottest destinations. Don't be left in the cold - Sun Splash Tours - 1-800-426-7710. THIS VAL.ENTINE' DAY surprise your roommate, friends, sorority sisters and fraternity brothers with a \Union College Telephone Gift Certificate\ available for purchase at telecommunica- tions Office, .College Center, 103. For more info call 370- 6411. VOLUNTEER HELP NEEDED at the Schenectady Inner City Ministry (SICM) emergency food pantry. Please contact Pat Obrecht 346-4445. BE ON TV! Join the Festival Telethon at WMHT- TV Feb. 25-Mar. 17. Food too! Help your public TV station. call 356-1700. TUTORING Union students who are interested in tutoring please contact Barbara Cash. Box 279, Tel: 386-4181. Personals 50¢ College Center Information Booth PERSONALS oer~~---------------­ oreat Job - Get Psyched ! ! Anyone interested in joining the Procrastinator's Club should call Barry at x4311. At last week's meeting we sat around and didn't do anything for about 3 hours. Coffeehouse celebrates Black History Month with Mick Fambro \Latinized Jazz-Rock'' 9:00p.m. CC302 Friday Feb. 8, 1991 THIS WEEK AT UNION 10 Feb - 16 Feb 1991 Feb 10 - Sunday CCAud Film: Mo' Better Blues Feb 11 - Monday 3:45 PM CC302 Prmg. Bd. 7:00 PM CCAud BHM Film 9:00 PM CC302 Free Film Series Feb 12 • Tuesday ~:oo PM Women's. B-Ban .· .• 12:00 PM CC302 Plateful of Questions :OO PM CCAUD Black Art In Motl~n 5 PM CCZOS N. S 7:30 PM CC302 Crosstalk: Graffiti :DO · ewman upper 8:00 PM Men's B·Ball The Departmen1 of 1he Arts and The Cabaret present Feb 13 - Wednesday 4:30PM MC Ecumenical Ash Wed. Service CCAud Film: The Princess Bride ~ lNJo@~~ ©~ ~©®~®~ Marlo Amendola Emily Baer Neil Kanterman Alison Kates starring Nat Keller Ruth Lerman Dave Lopiano J0:1athan May Elanna Pollack Todd VanVoris Thursday, February 7th at 8:00PM in CC302 (The New Cabaret'Coffeehouse) Free Admission Refreshments will be served Weekly Crossword \QUICK WORDS\ By Gerry Frey ACROSS 1 Former monarch in Iran 5 Slow moving mammal 10 Mr. Domino and Mr. Waller 14 Phone or vision preceder 15 Copy cats words 16 \There oughta be_ !\ 17 (QUICK ?) STATEMENT 19 Island in the Netherland Feb 14 ~ Thursday 8:00 PM CC302 Valentine's Day Cabaret 11 :30 AM CCAUD Minerva: \Educational ... Equality• Feb 15 • Friday SS016 Pretty Woman 11:30 AM CC3.02 Multicult(!ral Table 3:45 PM Hu213 Philosophy Colloquia 4:00PM CCATRIUMTGIF 7:00 PM 406 Spanish Film 7:00 PM CCAud BHM S~aker: Dr. Ron Wallers 7:00 PM Women's B-Baff 8:00 PM CC302 Mini Concert: Dean Stevens Feb 16 - Saturday Winterfest 1 :00 PM CCAUD College Bowl 7:30 PM Hockey CCATRI\JM Post Game Food Fest CCAud Film. Pretty Woman Th ls calendar Is presented by the College Center/Student Activities Programming Board. X:Si 18. 42 cell: Cancer 4 Large sandwiches 38 Adjust the clock research cell 5 Synchronous 41 Broadway hit 43 Good night girls of song Meteorological Satellite 44 Time zones 45 (QUICK ?) LINGO 6 Mlserables 46 Worthless rubbish 47 Carnival people 7 The up and down man 48 Borealis: 48 Subsequent to 8 \Your wit's ___ , it Northern lights 49 Raven's author speeds too fast. .. \: 51 Private teacher 50 Aleutian Island Shakespeare 53 (QUICK?) RUNNER 52 Child's direction 9 Wedding vow word 54 Enjoyment 54 Enjoyment 10 (QUICK?) GERMAN PRE- 55 Italian monies 58 City of lights LENTEN TREAT 56 Facilitate 62 Prevaricator 11 Wing shaped 57 Time periods 63 (QUICK ?) DRIVERS' 12 Forbidden 59 Unusual DESIRE: 3 YIDS 13 Ugly duckling 60 Kuwait's conqueror 66 Approxlmatmg words 18 nous: Between us 61 (QUICK?) AIRPLANES Antilles 20 Bricklayer 67 Emulate Patrick Henry 22 Ms. Hayworth 64 Ademosine triphosphate: -+--+-t-1 , 68 He was: Latin 24 Red wines Abbrev. 21 (QUICK ?) TIME PERIOD 23 Oil :additive: Plural 26 \Either out ___ .. 27 \Either\ in Naples 30 Perch 32 RPM instruments 36 (QUICK?~ FUGITIVE'S · M.D.: 3 WDS 38 JacGb's wife 39 Asllta , Ohio 40 Cease·fire · 69 High schooler 25 Whiskey 65 Follaws \FRAN\: Girls ..,.-+--+--i 70 Coarse tiles 27 Edna Ferber title name 71 Formal applications: 28 Accustom Abbrev. 29 Clement :former -+--+-+-t--1 DOWN 1 Plant part 2 A combining form meaning six 3 European mountains Prime Minister of G·.B. 31 Put out a candle 33 Gheesy 34 Greeting word 35 Quench 37 Home run Icing \ l

'j I I I PERSONALS \I'd rather have a man beat me up than lie to me. At least that way you have a cbance at defending yowsel.f.l\ Rosie- Next week's rnen11: Duck Fricassee, Pekiqg Duck, Duck Soup ... CONCORDIENSIS, February 7, 1991 CAMPUS NEWS HeyMl\ii- There's an Economics Club meeting today at 3:45. Don't miss it. LL Hi Terry- Don't worry you'll be at UCLA. They're fools if they don't take you. LJL J.- \My heart don't pump no cherry Kool-Aid for nobody ~ Baby!\ Looking forward to California? Miss you! Kathy, Dip and B (you know who), anyone? -L -Pam Meg- Dip, anyone? -Pam Roses are Red, Violets are Blue, Your duck is dead, And so are you. Tater- I'm going through withdrawal for garlic toast! The Bears! Someone who's never been in my kitchen! Velveeta! I'm jealous of your ever so sexy legs! -Loser Page 1~ Delta Gamma Sisters, You are doing a great job! Looking good! Keep up the great work! RATIONAL! lTB, Your Sisters Hi Michi! I'll miss you this weekend. Don't party too much w/o me. -L- Rubes® By Leigh Rubin The Economics Club Presents D·r. Mar·vin Phaup speaking on \What Economists Do at the Congressional Budget Of.fice\ Thursday, (today) F~bruary 7 3:45 in SS1 04 Refreshments will be served Also, the ECONOMICS CLUB will donate two books to Sc:haffer Library in honor of the late Prof. Dwight Phaup ALL ARE WELCOME Sun Man Tue Wed THREE MINUTES A DAY IS ALL WE ASK Thu UNITED WAY F ri 1 CCAud Film: Whrte PalactJ Sat 2 CCAud Film: Whhe Palace February 1991 February is Black current as of History Month 1 /3 1 1 1 :30 AM CC302 Mul11cul1ural Table 1:00 PM M!Ws Trad<. 7:30PM Hoci<ey THIS MONTH AT UNION 7'f10 PM CC406 Spanis~ Club Film: Carmen 7:30 PM CC302 Coffeehouse presents Peg Eyres 3 CCAud Film: WM<l Palace Sorority Rush Week-> 1 0 CCAud Film: ~o· BeHar Blues 4 5 6 7 8 9 12:30 PM 00302 12:00 PM 00302 CCAud Film: Animation 11 :30 AM CCAUD CCAud Film: Mo' Better SS016 Film: Mo' Better Women's Speal\&r Lunch Plaloful of Questions Festival 3:45 PM CC302 Prog. Bd. 5'f10 PM CC205 Newman UXJ PM CC302 7:00 PM CCAud AA Supper Dramatic Reading Interest !lt4eetins 9:00 PM CC302 Free Film Series 1 1 7:00PM CCAud BHM Speaker: f1&v. Van Woods 12 \Tributes' 7:00PM M/Ws Swimming 8:00PM Men's B·Bail 13 3:45 PM CC302 Prog. Bd. 12:00 PM CC302 CCAud Film: The 7:00 PM CCAud BHM Plateful Clf Questions f>rlncess Bride Film 5:00PM CC205 Newman 4:30PM MC Ecumenical 9:00 PM CC302 Free Supper Ash Wad. ServiCe Film Series 6:()(} PM Women's 8-Bal 7:00 PM CCAUD •Bled Art In Motion\ 1::Y::, PM CC302 Crosstalk: Graffiti 8:(]0 PM Men's B·Ball Minerva: Catskills 8:00 PM CC302 Cabaret-·Scenes Blues E!lues 11:30 AM CC302 7:00PM CCAUD BHM Multicultural Tabla Adelphia Rap. 700 PIVI MC BHM 8:00 PM Men's B·Ball Speaker: Kwama Tur& 900 PM CC302 Coffeehouse: 'Micha Fambro• 1 4 15 1 6 11:30 AM CCAUD SS016 Pretty Woman Minerva: 11 :30 AM CC302 \EducationaLEquallty\ Multicultural Table 8:00 PM CC302 3:45 PM Hu2l3 CCAud Film: Pretty Woman Wi·nterfest 1 :00 PM CCAUO College · Valentine's Day Cabaret Philosophy Colloquia Bowl 4'f10 PM CCATRIUM TGIF 7:30PM Hockey 7:00 PM 406 Spanish Film 7:00 PIA CCAud BHM Sp&akEH Or. Ron Walters 7:00PM Women's 8-Bal 8:00 PM CC302 Mini ~~-----------~~----------~~------------i7~----------~~-----------f~Co~~~rt~:~Da~a~n~S~teve~n~s~------------~ 17 18 18 20 21 22 23 CCAud Film: Frally 12:30 PM CC302 1200 PM CC302 CCAud Film: Kiss of lh< Men's Swim. (Union lnv., Men's Swim. (Union lnv., CCAud Film: Narrow Woman Nat'l Engineers Week-> \Alinterfest 7:30PM PAS Concert: Scott Hirnl Piano 24 Alpha Phi A.lpha Ce.lebration Week-> CCAud Film; l'llarrow Margin Women's Speaker Lunch Plateful of Questions 3:45 PM CC302 Prog. Bd 5:00 PM CC205 Newman 7:00PMCCAudBHM Supper Film 7:00 Pr.1 OC BHM 9:00 PM 00302 Free Speaker: 'Prof. COiia Film Series Clark• 25 7:30 PM CC302 CDC Nal'l Eng. l/tlk. Evant 9:00 PM Men's B-Ball 26 3:45PM CC302 Prog. Bd 12:00 PM CC302 Splderwoman 11:30 AM CCAUD SS016 Rim: Narrow Margin Margin 27 CCAud F1lm: The Color Minerva: A. Darryl Banks 11:30 AM cc30 2 Men's Swim. (Union In v., 7:00PM OCBHM Multicultural Table 2:00PM Men's B·BaH Speake-r: \Legacy of 3:45PM Hu213 3:00PM Mem. Ch. Gaspe Malcolm X\ Philosophy Colloquia 7:00PM CCAud BHM Speaker: John Amos 7:30 PM CC302 Coffeehouse 8:00 PM Men's B-Ball Festival 6:00 PM Men's B·Ba/1 6:00 PM UCDH BHM Culinary Expose· 7:30 PM CCAud APA Speaker Multi·Aaclal Politics Plateful of Questions Purple FOUNDERS DAY 8:00 PM CC302 Angels of Alpha Phi Alpha 9:00 PM CC302 Free Film StHies 5:00PM CC205 Newman 7:00PM CC302 Supper 7:3Q.PM 00302 Crosstalk: Alcohol & Drugs 8:3o PM SS016 APA Film & Disc. \School Days• Drarna11c Reading Series 8'f10 PMCCAud On Teaching Shakespeare 8:00PM CC410 APA Panel \Minortlias Under S:OO PM Nott • \'edpus' Siege• 11 :30 PM MC Minerva: Founde~s Day This calendar is presented by the College Center/ Student Activities Programming Board. X6116. Evidence located at the scene of the blaze led investigators to conclude that the fire had been deliberately set. SAVE THE WilDLIFE WWF

Page 20 CONCORDIENSIS, February 7, 1991 Pro-Choice Meetings Every Monday at 6:00 Social Sciences Rm. 105 BARNARD COLlEGE..COLCiAT!UNI'\IERSITY-CORNEI.l UNIVERSITY HAMILTON COUEGE..MANHATTAN COLUGIE..ST, LAWRENCE UNIVERSITY-UNION CDUECE 1f IXl I:E fPIE~ !P:R<O)CGl fRAM h:~ llJ !r:liiDil:E<G~AD\UA \!'] §CCQIE~<Ci.E ~:I:~HlDi!:A 'UO<O)\r:l Summer 1991 Student Research Opportunities A unique opportunity to gain r-esearch experience with a faculty mentor and work with students from other colleges and uniYersities at one of the following institutions: • Barnard College • Hamilton College • Colgate University • Manhattan College • Cornell University • Saint Lawrence University • l..'nion College 10 Wf.EKSl!\1'-lER PROGRAM $2,000.00 STIPE~D PLlS $501LOO TRA VEUHOL'S[';G EXPE.'OSES FOR AN APPLICATION OR FOR FL'RTHF.R DIITAILS. CO\T ACT YOt;R I:>.STITLT!O!IiAL Representatiave: Dean Weiner S-1 00 x6233 Or call COR~\ELL t::-<IVERSITY 607-255-2710 BARNARD COLLEGE..COLGATI UNIVERSITY.COI<NELl UNIVERSITY HAMIL TO~ COUEGE..MANHATT\N COlllG£ .. 51, LAWRENCl UNIVEllSI\lY .. UNION COLLEGE THINK GLOBALLY ACT LOCALLY EVERY DAY Students for Political Awareness arid Action S.P.A.A. presents a week of looking back. The '60s: What We've Learned, What We've Forgotten. Abstract March 4 - March 8 Be Looking For Details! Union College Telephone Gift Certificates available at the Telecommunications Office CC103. Phone 370-6411 for more information. UNION COLLEGE DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT and BIOLOGY CLUB Present INTRONS, RmOZYMES and EVOLUTION JD)JIRo .UTIIL IL ~AIL W ((}) Department of Human Genetics New York State Department of Health Thursday, February 14, 1991 4:40 SOCIAL SCIENCES Room 104 REFRESHMENTS 4:30 Computer Science Colloquium Representation of Physical n-Space and Digital Analog Simulation of Uniform Motion with Lattice-Work MIMD Computer Architectures John Case Department of Computer and Infonnation Sciences University of Delaware 2:00 Friday, February 8 106 Bailey Hall Dr. Dayanand Rajan, Mr. Anil M. Shende, and I have designed new, massively parallel MIMD computer architectures (and integrally associated algorithms) el'quisitely fitted to the (digital) analog simulation of the motion of objects in space: our machines are designed to \fly\ algorithms and data around in a locally connected, n-dimensionallattice-worlc of processors quite analogously to the way the particles of real objects fi:y about in real space when those real objects move from place to place. In this talk I'll report on this project indicating the use we've made of lattice theory, how our algorithms get around the problem that a lattice-worlc representation of a region of n-space has holes and anisotropies, and the potential applications to (non--standard) scientific computing. Refreslunents will be served before the talk. l

CONCORDIENSIS, February 7, 1991 Page 21 <lrnnrorbirnsts ·-~ SPORTS Men and Women Swimmers A Stroke Ahead Continued from .page 24 undefeated championship season, the Dutchwomen are looking to defend their title in the state tournament and to make an impressive showing with its contingent heading for the nationals later in the year. The Dutchwomen were faced with some early adversity this season as they dropped meets to Williams, 163-78, on January 8, and to Hartwick College, 122-121, on the 19th. Bassett attributes the losses to all around better .swimming at the Division Three level. The team this year, according to Bassett, is as strong or stronger than last year's and that the \athletes are doing better than last year.\ But every team tries to unseat .a defending champion, especially an undefeated one, so Union was everybody's goal this season. The loss to Williams, though it was a difficult one, was not an altogether unexpected one. Williams is \consistently top in Division Three,\ aml was just added to the Dutchwomen's schedule this year, so it was difficult to know what to expect. Bassett looks to the Hartwick loss as a motivating Selections of: point in the women's season. Losing by one point is quite possibly the most upsetting of losses but it also shows that at any time during the meet, had one person swam a little harder, the outcome. could have been entirely different. All that was needed was one fJfth place finish rather than a sixth, and the loss could have been a victory. Bassett said that loss showed the team that they could not let last year's successes carry them through this season. The team would have to swim hard through every meet and every race before conceding a loss or congratulating a victory. Hopefully, the loss will be a motivating factor in the women's final meet against Albany before the state tournament in the middle of February at RPI. Even though their record has been tarnished the Dutchwomen are still a powerful and successful team. Their record so far this season is seven and two, including a 66-voint blowout against William Smith (144-78) and a 60-point victory four days later against the Engineers of RPI (131-71). The women's attack has been a more well-rounded one with seven of twenty-one swimmers contributing greatly to the women's success so far. Again, though Bassett stresses \individual improvement\ rather than a few outstanding swimll\ers, these seven have helped to carry th~ team: freshman Kelly Bevan in the butterfly, freestyle and breast stroke; 1 eanie Cutrone, a junior, in the butterfly and freestyle; Amy O'Neill, also a junior, in the sprint freestyle events; Anne Glicksman, another junior, in the IM, backstroke, and freestyle; Julie Benker, a sophomore, in the backstroke and freestyle; and the two divers, freshman Tasha Zabka and sophomore Kristen Holbrook. All buoy the team and contribute greatly in victory and in defeat Zabka, in fact, is a surprise for Bassett and a great asset to the team. \She [Zabka] has been a really consistent performer all season,\ Bassett said of her freshman diver. Zabka's performances over the year have aided the team greatly and her skill is growing constantly. Zabka provides a consistency that few freshmen possess and, coupled with the talents of Holbrook, tile team can often count on a .strong performance in divillg at almost every meet. But rdiving is not the only event that the team can depend upon. Bassett says the Dutchwomen have a \pretty balanced team,\ one that can be strong throughout a meet. One area in which the team does excel are the freestyle sprint events especially with the strong O'Neill leading the way. Cutrone also strengthens the already strong freestyle events and shores up the butterfly events. The women's team now also looks to the post-season for further challenges in the pool. The Dutchwomen have to defend their victory in last year's State Championships against stronger divisional competition. The team does not have to worry about the strong Williams, however, so Hartwick may be Union's only strong contender, though every team would like to unseat the champions. \We would like to win it again,\ Bassett said. According to Bassett the Come and Enjoy a Relaxing Meal in Honor of St. Valentine at the Dutch Hollow Restaurant Thurs. Feb. 14 at 5:30 p.m. Reservations accepted at the Prime Rib Chicken Chasseur Shrimp Etouffee Restaurant Center winner could be \one of any four teams: Ithaca College, Hartwick, Hamilton, or Union.\ The team is also sending a small contingent of swimmers to the nationals later in the season. Individually, Cutrone and Bevan qualified and the Dutchwomen are also sending a 200 medley relay consisting of Cutrone, O'Neill, Bevan, and sophomore Julie Benker. A strong performance in the nationals would cap off a stellar season for the entire team. The future for Union swimming is bright as both teams are retaining almost all of their best swirnmers and are losing very few to graduation. The women wit.! graduate three swimmers. co-captain Pam Fiedler, Sue Torpie, and Jennifer Torrant. The men will lose only two of their number, co-captain Mau Boon and Christopher Walsh. With a good recruiting year and an active off-season, both teams can continue their success and perhaps improve on already excellent seasons. If the winning continues, it will not be the swim teams that are overshadowed any longer. A $12 value still only a meal card punch!

' ' Page 22 CONCORDIENSIS, Febru~ry 7, 1991 <!tnttrllrbirnzis SPORTS Women's Basketball Suffers 5th Straight Loss By RON BIRNBAUM This past week has been a struggle for the Union women's basketball tearn as they suffered two. losses against .Jtica Tech (49-43) and Middlebury (73-58), to drop their record to 8-9, the first losing record for the squad since early December. This amounts to 5 straight losses, very different results from the 8-4 record of just a little over 2 weeks ago. In the home game against Utica last Tuesday, Union started out well. They led 27- 19 at the end of the 1st half, but in the 2nd half shot a cold 25% from the field in this low- scoring game. In addition, as most players had difficulty putting shots in, Union only had 5 scorers, with freshman forward Kirsten Dibble and junior forward co-captain Robin Romer taking the lead in scoring, with 17 points & 12 rebounds and 15 points & 9 rebounds respectively. Another performance worth noting was that of junior forward Sue Mautner who had 7 points and played good defense. Overall, this was a difficult game, and though def€nse was tight, Union was hurt on the boards as Utica was able to score a couple of 3-pointers at the end to pull ahead. While this was not one of the Lady Dutchmen's better games, they definitely had the potential for the win. Against Middlebury, the final point spread was not indicative of how the game was played. The Dutchwomen outmatched Middlebury, especially in the post areas. Nonetheless, Middlebury was a solid team which outrebounded Union 46-28 and crashed the boards well, putting up a press which the squad had a tough time breaking. Another problem was Middlebury's Catherine Leary, who scored 26 points and had 20 rebounds, and her average of 19 rebounds per game leads Division 3. At halftime, Middlebury was up 36-27, and in the 2nd half, when it began play, Leary was able to post up on the block underneath the basket and scored many quick 2-point layups. Because Leary had been able to go in for scoring off Union's standard man-to-man defense, Union decided to switch to a zone. However, Middlebury was able to play better off this, and the Dutchwomen revexted back to a man-to-man defense soon after. Had Union been able to get past the aggressor's press more frequently, the score would have been much more weighted in Union's favor, as when it did, players were able to score easy Iayups. Although Romer, with 22 points, and Dibble, with 17 ,points, lit up the scoreboard, Union only had 6 different scorers (including junior guard J en Hill, freshman guard Andrea Light, junior forward co-captain Jean Lopata, and junior forward Sue Mautner) as compared to Middlebury's 10. This was also a low rebounding game, though Dibble and freshman forward Michelle Kleinhans had 7 each. According to head coach Joanne Little, a better job in rebounding on both offense and defense and a cutdown in the amount of turnovers are the prime elements that need improvement. While Union played well against Middlebury, the Dutchwomen need to be more consistent throughout the game in order to better handle the pressure. Maintaining an aggressive defense, boxing out the opponent, and causing turnovers is also a must. The next few games are all on the road, the 1st at Hartwick followed by several games at the Connecticut College invitational Tournament this Saturday and Sunday. With 7 games left in the season, the chance for a winning season is still large. S lienanigans Hair Designs we enjoy our work ... 2 for 1 HAIRCUTS Reg. $12. Now $6.00 Each SO Will )IOU! with this coupon thru Feb. 15 appointment strongly recommended Tues-Fri. 9-8 Mon & Sat 9-5 \ l ~.' · .. ·~·/ I , \ j 372-0007 519 Union St. Scb'dy ·~ .. _/· R.a.que.t&att 'fouTna.ment ·ALL proceeds to benefit .•. •.. AMERICAN ARTHRITIS FOUNDATION • Registration Dates - Feb. 4-11 in College Center •Tournament Dates - Feb. 15·17 •Win Great Prizes Such As • Pr. Day Ski Passes 1o Gore Mtn. •$25 Gift Certificate to Luigi's o $20 Gift Certificate to Manhattan Exchange o $20 Gift Certificate to Gold stock's •1 ()Ut of 6 CUDS from College Bookstore • Gift Certificate to Pappa Cicco's •Gift Certificate to Fireside .. Pr. Tkts. to see Forbidden Broadway at Proctor's •Various Prizes donated \Two $10 Gift Certificates to Michelle's by friendly's •Haircut and Blowdry form Shenanigan's and Ben and Jerry's Hockey Team Settles For Tie Continued from page 24 enjoyed their biggest crowd of the season on Saturday night. The 2,367 fans stayed for every minute of this intense rivalry. There was a small contingency of Tigers fans who were on iiand to witness the comeback. The Union-RIT rivalry has always been an intense affair. The lifetime series stands in RIT's favor, but ever since Coach Bruce Delventhal came over to Union, the two teams have engaged in some extremely close battles. Unfortunately, this may have been the last meeting between Union and RIT, since Union is moving up to the ECAC Division I; the last meeting that is unless these powerhouses meet in post- season play. Hamilton Shoots Down Men Cagers By JASON GRAVES The Men's Basketball Team dropped to 12-4 on the season with a 94-72 · loss to powerhouse Hamilton College. After Monday's win against Hobart, Hamilton has a 17-0 record and is currently ranked first in the nation for Division III schools. They are also enjoying a 23-game winning steak which is an all-time high for Hamilton. Hamilton has averaged &7 .8 points a game this season compared to 64.1 for their opponents. They are led by two-time All-American Mike Nelson who is averaging over 20 points a game. Junior Mike Smith leads the nation with 15.7 rebounds per game. This is what the Dutchmen faced as they went into Hamilton on Saturday. Both teams started out slowly in the first half. Three minutes into the game the score was still tied, 4-4, with all of Hamilton's points coming on foul shots. The next few minutes were all Hamilton as they stretched out a 9-0 run to make the score 13-4. Union got a good frrst half from Alex Nestor who scored 8 points and from Steve Evans who had 6 points and 4 assists. Hamilton had two players in double figures and had stretched the lead to 19 at the half, 50-31. That wasn't comfortable yet for Hamilton head coach Tom Murphy. He said,. \Union is a good team. They're capable of scoring three at a time and Brescia really gained a lot of momentum with the ones he hit Twenty points used to be a lot. Against good teams it's not anymore. (The Hamilton players) have a tendency to squander leads, but they're getting better.\ That 19-point deficit, however, proved to be a hole that the Dutchmen couldn't get out of. Union cut the lead to 14 points twice early in the second half, both times on Jerry Brescia 3-pointers. Both times Hamilton regained momentum and control of the game. The second time they never gave it up. Hamilton had as much as a 25-point lead the rest of the way as the Dutchmen tried to get it closer. Union head coach Bill Scanlon said, \We had a couple of decent runs in the second half. We just couldn't keep the momentum. If we could have just played even after the first run and then had the other run it may have been different.\ The Dutchmen prepared for the game defensively with the hopes of trying to control the Hamilton offense. \I felt badly after the game,\ said Scanlon. \We could have controlled the game more offensively; used the offense to control the tempo of the game.\ Union's Alex Nestor played a great game leading the team with 16 points and 9 rebounds. Elgin Rhodes scored 12 points and Jerry Brescia scored 11, including three 3-pointers. Steve Evans finished with 6 assists. Hamilton was led by Mike Nelson who led 'all scorers wiht 18 points. Mike Smith recorded 14 rebounds. Smith also went over the 1,000 career point mark and the 1,000 career rebound mark on Saturday. Union will host LeMoyne on Saturday, February 9 and Plattsburgh on Tuesday, February 12. Both games start at 8:00p.m . SupporT UnioN SportS ' ,. ~ '

CONC()JtDJENSIS, February 7, 1991 Page 23 : <!tnmrbirttsis SPORTS Rick Clifford Lights Up The Scoreboard By ANDY BRAVER Sports Editor Left wing Rick Clifford was not one of the players whom Union's head hockey coach Bruce Delventhal was counting , on to provide the scoring punch at the start of the season. That job was left to the proven scorers like Terry Campbell and Craig Ferrero, and they have come through with over 40 points apiece. However, the man behind them on the scoring chart is none other than number 17, Rick Clifford. In last Saturday night's 5-5 tie with arch-rival RIT, Clifford scored a goal and added three assists, and for his effort has been selected as the Concordiensis Sports Athlete of the Week. His four point outburst against the Tigers was the third time this season Clifford has registered four or more points in a game. On the year, he has scored nine goals and added 22 Rick Clifford assists for 31 points, third on the team. Clifford is also the holder of an 11-game point scoring streak. The dramatic rise in Clifford's scoring totals has been one of the key ingredients t<J the Skating Dutchmen's succ:esses to this point. Last seas .on, he scored only four goals and 12 points, and missed the final six games of Ilie year with a separated should as well. As a freshman, Cllf{()rd played in 23 games !lllcJscored three goals and added 6 as.sists. J'lowever, there is much rnC!lre to the game of Rick CLifford than just putting the pt1cl in the net or setting up his center Ferrero. In typical lloc::key jargon, he is a banger anHL a grinder, constantly 'Werking in the corners and sta11ding in front of the net on thejpower play. Congratulations and con- tinlled success to Rick Clifford, this week's recipient of the C:::<Oilcordiensis Sports Ath1ete of the Week Award. .to Ski Trip Mount Snow on Sunday, Feb. 1Oth Make a reservation by Feb. 8th Call Beth at x4028 $27 - Lift Ticket $18- Rental $15 -Lesson Sponsored By the Je·wish Student Union CONCORD~ ENS~ 5 SPORTS @l!JJ lE$lf ~ (OJOO (O)[F 1 IHHE ~lElE ~ Name the 2 players chosen · before Michael Jordan in the 1984 NBA Drafta ~~~,..~. ~IE f.[liDlli!Um©c~ ~ll/m& one 'Winner shall be- chosen from all correct entries. Submit entries to BO >C 212 no later than ):00 on the Monday after each issue of Concordien:S:i:s. e Last Weeks's Ansvver: Vikings Br<>l).COS Cowbo-.:~ J J J \'} , Redskiru J DolJlltins J Bengals Last Weeks W1nner: Seth Rosenberg ·O'ff Dy ANDY B~A VER Sport Ed1tor Super Salutations I know that by now many of you have forgotten about the Super Bowl. Since that exciting Sunday evening, we hav~ had tes~ and exams, labs and papers. We have had parties and sporting evenK We have had, and still have, a war. But try now to look back almost two weeks in time, back behind the astronomy and philosophy exams, back to the time when the news reports of the war were not so commonplace, and back past the many long, drunken nights that have set the past few days apart from all of the rest, or, in some cases, made them seem like so many others. Super Bowl XXV, even with all of the contr()vcrsy and the events which surrounded the game and occupied the minds of most Americans, was the best ever. In a time of crisis, the country needed something to rally around, and they got it from the New · York Giants and the Buffalo Bills. Super Bowl XXV was a game for the ages. It lifted people everywhere from their worries and preoccupations illto a three-hour void of football and excitement, interrupted only by an overly long halftime news report, a plethora of new commcrdals, and Bud Bowl3. If the National Football league could have prod11ced a script of the kind of game they wanted on January 27, 1991, it would have been identical to the game that was played on the field of Tampa Stadium. Actually. the league might have written a different ending-Buffalo's Scott Norwood would have made the winning field goaL But who cares about details. Certainly not me or any of my fellow Giants fans. The football that was played on the field was as good as there has ever been. Both teams played a physical, fundamentally sound game that was marred, not by penalties and turnovers, but by new sod which was placed in the center of the field the night before the game. The Giants and the Bills executed on offense and defense, carrying out their assignments and making their plays. It was a pleasure to watch. Even ABC's telecast was picture perfect that Sunday evening. Clean, crisp, concise commentating a quick, professional directing led to perfect camera angles and replays that was as good as in any other television broadcast, ever. On Steven Baker's touchdown reception near the end of the first half, ABC quickly replayed three different camera shots, all of which conclusively sh()wed that Baker landed with both feet in bounds. Earlier in ilie !;CCOnd quarter, television fans were treated to an unbelievable replay of Giants quarterback Jeff Hostetler being sacked in his endzone for a safety. ABC quickly showed the replay of Hostetler cradlin~ the ball under his arm as Bills defensive end Bruce Smith tried to strip it and cause a fumble. Smith's hand missed by inches, but ABC didn't miss anything. They were there all game long. It's amazing how un-super the Super Bowls have been in the past few years. Actually, I can't remember too many super games, in the past few years, or ever. Even two years ago, when San Francisco beat Cincinnati in the final minute on tlte final drive, I wasn't too excited. The fmal minutes might have been great, but as a game of 60 minutes, it was kind of a let down. The last good Super Bowl I can remember was number XIV, Pittsburgh and the L.A. Rams. That. wasn't the closest game on the scoreboard, the Steelers won 31-19, but the momentum swung back and forth many times and the game was not decided until the final minutes. It was truly a Super Bowl. Turning our attention back to number XXV and the season which preceded it, there are some comments and observations I would like to make: • Instant replay needs a serious quick fix or it should get its walking papers. The concept is a great one. The practice is awful. • Ottis Anderson was asked earlier this year in an elevator in New York if he was related to the OJ. Anderson who nsed to play for the St Louis (now Phoenix) Cardinals. He said no. • Dallas Cowboys coach Jimmy Johnson can coach. I was wrong, I admit it. To turn the Cowboys around, even though they played a last place schedule, was an amazing feat. • Phoenix de..~rves Super Bowl XXVII. • Does anyone remember Lisa Olson. I don't. • Bills fans are the most forgiving people in the world. I almost cried when I saw the ovation they gave kicker Norwood at the rally in Buffalo after the game. It was incredible. I'll never forget it! • Giants defensive coordinator Bill Belichick is a great coach and will be a great head coach somewhere, possibly ill Cleveland. But why are there no young, black, phenom coaches being mentioned for head coaching jobs. Anyone who says there aren't any are crazy. People, except for AI Davis, just don't want to recClgnize it.

0 0 ::t: a.. UJ -I u::: The Skating Dutchmen tried to find some open ice against RIT on Saturday night. The game ended in a 5,.5 tie. Union's Swimmers keep finding themselves in front of the competition. For details see the article below. Skating Dutchmen _,low 4- Goal Lead; Tie RIT 5-5 By DAN STRUM In Achilles' rink on Saturday night a near capacity crowd was in a state of shock. The Union fans were shaking their heads in disbelief. What had just happened to their four- goal lead?! With a bunch of rushes in the third period, .. and the aid of some lopsided momentum, the Tigers from RIT had stormed back with five unanswered goals to take a 5-4 lead over the hosting Dutchmen. However, Union was not willing to surrender so easily. Coach Bruce Delventhal focused his players and sent them out for the remainder of the third period. Union's play was noticeably improved. Late in the period, Union kept the puck deep in the zone. It was worked out to the point by Jayson Aowers. Craig Ferrero received it and sent a cross ice pass to Greg Eccleston. The crowd had sensed the play building and they were about to be rewarded. Eccleston one- timed a slapshot and sent it just inside the right post to tie the score at 5-5. Play tightened up for the rest of the period as the game was sent into overtime. Each team had a. few good chances in the overtime . period, but neither team could capitalize. The game ended in a 5-5 tie as RIT capped a great · comeback while Union averte,d a potential disaster. Union opened up a 2-0 lead in the first period. It got two more in the second period while RIT added tluee to make it 4-3 going into the final period of play. Union's goals were scored by Terry Campbell, Bill McKenna, Rick Clifford, Byron Smith, and Eccleston. Flowers and Clifford each ootched three assists while Ferrero added an assist of his own. Union's play was inconsistent throughout tile game. They received good efforts from many players at one point, and then had mental lapses which allowed RIT to climb back into the game. The run Union had in the flfSt half of the game characterized some of their best play of the season. Union controlled the neutral zone. They contained the RIT forwards and kept the quality chances to a minimum. Union's special teams play performed relatively well. They recorded one power-play goal on the evening. In addition, they were perfect with the penalty killing t~nit, holding RIT scoreless in three chances. The Skating Dutchmen Continued ()11 page 22 February 7, 1991 Men and Women Swimmer'S Excelling In The Pool :By JARED SELTER With the recent success of the men's basketball team and the fervor surrounding the Skating Dutchmen moving up to Division One play, two teams seem to have been forgotten regardless of their performance. The men's swim team, after winning only five meets last year, are already six and two and are ready to continue that success through the end of the regular season and into the postseason tournaments. At the close of the 1989-90 season the women's swim team found itself undefeated and New York Division Tllree champions. This year, the women's team is in the position of defending champions, the team everyone is aiming to beat, but has still been able to maintain a seven win and two loss record despite stronger competition throughout Division Three swimming, and the addition of an extremely strong opponent to the regular schedule. According to head coach Susan Bassett, the Dutchmen have always been considered underdogs in the pool. Teams could historically count on a win at the expense of Union without too much thought. That underdog position has finally paid off for Bassett and the Dutchmen. So far this year the men have taken stunning wins from teams such as Hobart, 142-88, RPI, 130-108, and Hamilton, 155 to 86. The Union men have not beaten Hobart since the 1970 season, RPI since 1967, and Hamilton since 1966. The season, said Bassett, \has been an incredible turnaround,\ for the men. Last year was the first season in over 20 years that the men had maintained a .500 record. That five win and four loss record was a motivator for Bassett and her team but they wanted more. But this level of success has come as somewhat of a surprise. Some of the success can be attributed to the increased interest in the team over the last few seasons. When Bassett took up the reins of the swim program, only around 12 men actively competed on the team. With each swimmer limited to three races in any given meet, the lack of members severely hindered the possibilities for success. Even if the team took a large number of first and second places an opposing team that could fill its lanes could make up the points in the lower places. The Dutchmen do not face such a problem this season. The team has 22 swimmers, up from 16 last year, and now has the depth needed to defeat long time foes such as RPI or Hamilton. According to Bassett, it was that depth that earned the Dutchmen several wins this season. Although Bassett tries to dissuade the notion of one star carrying the team or a core of swimmers contributing more than their share of victories to the effort, there are legitimate stars on any excellent team. Bassett maintains that she is \trying to develop a team concept,\ but there are certain members of this team that are counted upon to deliver wins. Possibly the most successful member on tile team is David Robison, a sophomore diver. Bassett has termed Robison's performances on the board, \a guaranteed win.\ The team can \always count on David Robison in diving.\ Also greatly helping the team is junior Tony Tremaglio in the 200 and 100 yard breast stroke and the 200 yard individual medley (IM), sophomore Sven Zabka in both the backstroke and free style, sophomore Cliff Shaw with the distance free style, and freshman William Humphreys for the butterfly. Two freshmen have also come on as the surprises of the season. Ian Prout joins Shaw in the distance free, and has excelled weH past any of Bassett's pre- season expectations. Luke Payne, also a freshman, helps out in the backstroke and freestyle. These seven swimmers form a strong core on whom the Dutchmen can count for wins. Bassett still reminds that \everyone is a strong contributor,\ and that on any given day anyone can be the star. Armed with its arsenal of swimmers the Dutchmen were able to take its most impressive and emotional victory from RPI on January 16. Bassett marks that win as a turning point in the season and a motivator for the rest of the season. \RPI on paper, we shouldn't have beaten,\ Bassett said, describing the Engineers' supposed superiority in the water. It was Union's continual underdog position that allowed the Dutchmen to steal the victory. At any point during the meet, explained Bassett, someone on the Union team could have given in to precedent and allowed the history of RPI's dominance in the rivalry to dim their desire to win. This season, no one gave in, and that desire coupled with an RPI team that did not take Union seriously cost RPI the win. \We got psyched up and just outswam them,\ Bassett said. The men now look to the post-season for their next challenge after a crushing defeat at the hands of Williams College, a perennial swimming powerhouse in Division Three. Bassett said the Dutchmen are looking for a place in the top five or six teams out of nineteen in the New York State Championships. Union will host the state tournament and will enjoy a home pool advantage throughout the three days of competition spanning February 21st through the 23rd. Bassett is looking for a large fan turnout to enllance that advantage and hopes anyone who can will come up and encourage the Dutchmen. The Union women's swim team has also enjoyed great success during the course of the season. After last year's Continued on page 21

Vol. CXX, No. 13 Schenectady, New York February 14, 1991 Plastic Mugs Hit Campus By SUZANNE LIEBERMAN Last Thursday, all students received a reusable plastic mug in their mailbox. These mugs were distributed by the \We Care About U\ group to replace the disposable cups that were previously used. The goal of this new policy is to help pre serve the environment by reducing waste around the campus. In this way, the program will hopefully also increase the environmental awareness of the students. The Union College Dining service, Student Forum, the Interfraternity Council, and the Panhellenic Council all helped to support the plastic mug project. The fraternities will no longer provide plastic cups for any students by order of the IFC. The IFC believes tbat not only will this .plan prove beneficial for the environment, but it will also benefit the fraternities in several ways. If the project succeeds, it will save the fraternities money, help to keep non-Union students out of fraternity parties. and make the fraternity houses much easier to clean. \We Care About U\ is a program run entirely by Union College students. Pete Cowles, \The spirit of the policy is terrific and the intention is a g<>od one.\ one of the leaders of the program, said last week in his letter to the college community that \this project will only succeed if the community wants it to succeed.\ Any reusable mug, 11ot only the ones provided by \We Care About U\ may be used by . students to greatly reduce the amount of waste around campus. However, the project will only be useful if students · contribute to make tile idea work. Dean of Students Joseph L. . Mammola says he would love to see the idea work, because \the spirit of the policy is terrific and the intention is a good one.\ Mammola also stressed that \the best part is that it came from students-- it · wasn't imposed by the faculty.\ Here therefore agrees with Cowles, that it is the responsibility of the students to make the idea work. He stated that the faculty will not enforce this new policy. · College Community Volunteers For Schen.ectady By Jennifer A.rdinger \We Care About U- Schenectady\ is a group of volunteers made up by members of the Union College · community. This group is trying to reach out to the Schenectady community and to give something positive by reconstructing houses for low- income families. Professors, deans, and students compose the corps of thirty v0lunteering members, who are actively involved in \We Care About U-Schenectady.\ A number of students have been trying to form this group for some time. The generous efforts of Dean Alford, Dean Mammola, and President Hull have helped this organization get under way. \We Care About U-Schenectady\ has received recognition without funding from Student Forum. At the present, they are working off a grant given by President Hull for the purchase of basic tools. In order to help keep the costs of the organization to a minimum, the group is looking for donations and is in the process of making a \wish list\ for needed tools. Members of the Union College community volunteer to help better neighborhoods Incorporated at 10 am and 1 pm every Saturday. Better Neighborhoods Incorporated is a company based in Schenectady. This cornpany acquires homes from tile city of Schenectady, fills out all necessary contracts, and hires people to reconstruct the Continued on page 3 Kwame Ture delivers controversial lecture last Friday at Memorial Chapel. See article below and letters on page 12. Sociology Professor Expresses Opinion On Controversial Speaker By Instr. ANDREW MARCHANT-SHAPIRO I have recently had two unsettling experiences. The first of these involved reading an article by Marc Alexander Unger in the Union Sentinel a couple of weeks ago. The second involved listening to ~warne Ture's talk last Friday night. While Unger and Ture would disagree about a great deal, they share a comon perspective toward humanity: determinism. What is detenninism? We might best unders!aDd it by reversing the old adage: if it's a duck, determinism holds, It must walk like a duck and quack like a duck. Unger and Ture differ in their arguments-- and, in each argument, I found much with which I could agree. But when it came down to their underpinnings, there was a kind of core with which I felt very u~eas~. Un~er begins his attack on PC-speak by discussing biOlogical differences between blacks and whites. He argues that demonstrable biological differences between whites and blacks seem to him, \a good explanation of why negroes doh):inated sprints in the Olympics.\ Kwame Ture argues, in his empowering talk, that blacks should see themselves primarily as Africans, and that, as a group, they should withdraw from and struggle against the American capitalist system (largely constructed by whites with slave labor) that has constantly betrayed and belittled them. Both arguments begin with a reasonable premise: that there are differences between groups. Continued on page 14 Union Receives $5 Million Bequest Courtesy of Public Relations Union College's $150 million Bicentennial Campaign received a major boost yesterday with the announcement of a $5 million bequest from the estate of Margaret M. Dyson, who passed away Dec. 19, 1990. Under the terms of the bequest, the largest in the College's 196-year history, Union must first raise $15 million on a challenge basis. The notification of the bequest came three weeks after the announcement of the Bicentennial Campaign itself and brings the current total committed to more than $44 million, nearly 30 percent of the intended goal. The campaign is scheduled to conclude with the bicentennial celebration of the Co liege in 1995. \The bequest is one that I accept with obvious mixed emotions,\ said Roger H. Hull, president of Union College. Mrs. Dyson was the mother of President Hull's wife, Anne E. Dyson, M.D. \On the one hand, I feel a sense of deep personal loss; on the other, I recognize and appreciate the tremendous impact that a gift of this magnitude can have on the life of the institution.\ Although the ultimate use of the gift is left to the discretion of President Hull, he has indicated that after the three-to- one challenge has been met, the money will be put toward the renovation of the Nott Memorial and the renovation and expansion of Schaffer Library. \Despite the fact that Margaret was not personally enamored with the Nott,\ Hull said, \she heard me describe tentative plans fC>r the facility and saw the need to proceed. Now, whenever I look at or pass by the Nott, I think of Continued on page 3

Page 2 CONCORDJENSIS, February 14, 1991 C!tnnmrbirnsis NEWS ANALYSIS • ll IZin that confiding in no one meant less t:ro11ble than later worry over skeptical aLlies. A man of Hussein's lofty ambitions and standards finds llttle room for those who claim allegiance: he would much rather operate alone, appeasing himself and his Clllt following in the name of a holy war. withstand air raids and prepare his troops for a long, drawn out land battle. What few saw coming was the ecological disaster that Saddam perpetrated, dumping millions of barrels of oil into the Persian Gulf, causing · great damage to the wildlife that depends so heavily on clean water. By JIM POLITES A villain is often portrayed as an individual who on sight incurs our deepest feelings of hatred, regardless of the self- satisfying personal motives he or she may cite in defense of destructive actions. In the fictitious land of movies, Jack Nic!Iolson, clad in tasteless suits with face painted to hide grossly deformed features, offers an overly vivid example of the type of criminal we in society perceive as needing a heavy dose of justice. Now. rather than a cackling lunatic with green hair, we must pros,xute and deal with a real life threat to our v:alues as Americans. Saddam Hussein has stepped forward on the world scene to openly challenge George B us!J.'s world order, and his fearlessness (or better yet stubbornness) has lead to war, as he now finds himself entangled in confiict with the United States' finest military forces. Back on August 2, when Saddam led his Iraqi troops over the Kuwait border, toppling the tiny emirate's government and gaining contr.ol over an enormous supply of oil, who figured such aggression would escalate to warfare on SllCh a monstrous and horrifying scale? Once perpetrating this atrocity, Hussein must have known that an outbreak of outrage was imminent- for there were too many nations adversely affected here for govemments to simply turn the other cheek and ignore the bruta 1 hostility Iraq demonstrated. For the U.S. in particular, it was an opportune moment that offered a series of advantages designed to create a positive and unified avenue to subsequent conflict. With blind combativeness staring the American public square in the face, everything pointed toward us stepping forward and reinfe>rcing our claim as worldwide policeman. Back in the 1960's and early 1970's, when Vietnam was the primary vehicle of vehement social protest, people questioned our heavy involvement in such distant lands. Today, though, Hussein has made our belief and taste for conflict relatively easy to define. While we all are reluctant to push our military men and women into perilous desert battle, there is no doubt that a consensus of bringing Saddam to his knees is paramount in importance to a majority of Americans. Though comparisons to Adolf Hitler are misguided. there is not a figure since the German tyrant of World War II fame to come as close to inciting the degree of universal anger Saddam has attained. Virtually every country on the globe has sided with the Allied Forces in denouncing Iraq's conquest, thus establishing a clear line between those fighting for altruistic reasons- namely the liberation of Kuwait-and those Iraqis battling in hopes of maintaining their sordid stranglehold on a toppled nation. It must be assumed that Saddam 's intentions all along were to challenge the world by himself, obviously sensing Stress1 ng out over Midterms?! Need e peaceful place to work?! Come check out the CHUC ROOM Basement of Hurnanft1es . IntrdStructure In shambles. Vast numbers of C[Vilian hometess. n . . . l c~nters h nnatlCla da~~~ly Et\OU(i\\ ~pPUT 1\-\~ u.s.L. His tactics have been much less than honest and upstanding. First, there was Saddam's use of human shields-. namely American and other Allied citizens-placed in strategic locales that made the enemy think twice before striking. He tried to sell this tactic as a route to peaceful .solutiion, thliS threatening and thrusti11g innocent people to the forefront of the conflict NelC.t, in the eatly days of battle, his broadcast of prisoners of war, fed with prepared statements showcasing Though comparisons to Adolph Hitler are misguided, there is not a figure since the German tyrant of World War I[ fame to come as close to inciting the degree .of universal anger Saddam has attained. all that is honorable with Saddam, was a tasteless act of psychological treachery that did nothing more than fuel the Allied cause in the eyes of the world. Finally, Hussein was aware that he could not match the air strength of the Allies-th~ predominant theory at the outset was he would attempt to One must wonder exactly what Hussein is thinking. Granted, this is a sound defensiv:e maneuver, especially for someone who's forces are backed against a closing wall. But how could Saddam justify such blatant disregard for the environment when he desperately needs friends to help in his cause? There are certainly nations who would welcome the opportunity to repel the United States, such actions are no way to gain followers, though. Such tactics are not the workings of a brilliant military mind. Rather they are indicative of a man far over his head in battle, confused as to which direction and motives he would see fit to take. The press and war specialists grossly overestimate the talent, intelligence, and cunning of Saddam Hussein. The simple truth is that he is a second rate commander of a Third World armed force capable of little more than providing resistance on familiar terrain. Let us keep in perspective who we are dealing with. Giving this power hungry dictator more credit than he deserves is unnecessary and potentially dangerous. Hussein was bold enough to face the world alone. Now let him pay the consequences. lf!flf!l!fll!llf!!lflfl!llllfl!fl!lfl Enjoy the melodies of George Winston in a free hour long concert devoted to both classical and new age piano solo music when Union's very own Scott Hirni performs in the Performing Arts Studio located on the first floor of the Arts Building on Sunday, February 17, 1991 at 7:30 p.m. Seating will be available on a first come, first serve basis. - A reception will be held immediately after the concert. I!!!IJ,lf!!l!lll!!llllll!llllll!ll!ll ~I I, I

CONCORDIENSIS, February 14, 1991 Page 3 $5 ·Million Bequest· To Be Put Towards Bicentennial Continued from page 1 Margaret. \Few individuals have the · opportunity to transform an · institution,\ the president said. \In a day and age when people are increasingly thinking of · themselves rather than of others, even. those who have the ability rarely take advantage of it. Margaret Dyson made a decision to help transform this institution, and her bequest -- so generous, so thoughtful -- will make a tremendous difference in the life of this c o 11 e g e an d i t ·s students.\ Ms. Dyson came to the United States in 1938. She married Charles Dyson in 1941, had three sons in addition to her daughter, Anne, and was actively engaged in a variety of charitable activities. Union's Bicentennial Campaign includes a goal of $38 million for a number of renovation and modernization projects, including the Nott Memorial, Shaffer Library, a theater, and classrooms, laboratories, and dormitories. Other major goals of the campaign include: - increasing the College's endowment in four areas totaling $87 million - faculty support ($12 n1iJ:lion), student financial aid ($42 million), academic pro grams ($11 million), and library and laboratory su,pport ($22 million); increasing the immediately expendable sup- port of the operating budget through the Annual Fund ($25 million). Work has begun on the exterior rehabiHtation of the Nott Memorial, a National Historic Landmark. Notter Finegold and Alennder, Inc., a Boston architectural firm, is developing a program for the work, and the schedule calls for construction to start this summer. Schaffer Library was designed 30 years ago for a college with half of Union's current enrollment. The College plans to double the size of the library with a new addition and completely renovate the current facility. Attention Students on Meal Plan: Students wishing to sign up, change or drop the Meal Plan for spring term _should so so in the Dining Services Office, CC202, no later than February 15, 1991. Reported Security Incidents DAT£ LOCATION INC[DENT 2/04/91 COLLEGE CENTER THEFT Df A HAND HELD CALCUL~TOR 2/04/91 FOX HOUSE YANDALIS\ TO A NlNDO~ 2/05/91 BECKER CIRCLE PARKING PROBLEH 2/0G/'31 LIBRARY FIELD TRESPASSERS ~ARNED Off CAMPUS, CARDS FILED 210&1'31 NORTH COLLEGE ANNOYING PHONE CALLS REPORTED 2107191 COLLEGE CENTER THEfT Of VCR REPORTED 2107/91 NEST COLLE6E DlSTRAUGHT STUDENT 2/07/91 ALUHNI GVn THEFT or COAT REPORTED 2/08/91 HEHORIAL FIELDHOUSE ATTE\PTED BURGLARY 2108/91 SCHAFfER LIBRARY TllEfT OF CllllEGE PROPERTY REPORTED 2/08/91 NEll ENTRY SATE THEfT Of COLLESE SIGN REPORTED 2/09/91 DAVIDSON HOUSE VANDALISH TO LOUNGE AREA REPORTED 2/!0/91 DAVIDSON HOUSE IIINDOII VANDALIZED 2110/'31 NEST COLLESE WATER BACK UP PROBLEM 2/10191 RAYHOHD HOUSE WI~DOII VANDALIZED 2/10/91 HALE HOUSE DOOR BROKEN-ACCIDENTAL 2/10/91 WEST COlLEGE ROOM DOOR WOULD NOT SECURE 2110/91 MAXCY HOUSE POSSIBLE BRE~K IN RE?ORTED 2/10/91 OFf CAMPUS VEHICLE BREAK-IN - TtlEfT OF SKI EQUIPMENT 2/10/91 DF'f CANPUS THEFT OF POCKETBOOK REPORTED Students Increase Community Involvement Continued from page 1 homes. In return, low-income families are able to purchase these homes for the ;price of the labor and material that go into the house. The idea that these families are not getting a \hand-out\ is very beneficial. It is a form of afforda\ble housing, and it lives up to its motto, \helping people help themselves.\ At the present, the volunteers are working on one house. In the future, they would like to be able to expand, by assigni11g selective crews to work on a number of houses. In order to do this, they need volunteers. All are invited to attend he weekly meetings and volunteer on Saturdays. For more information, contact Jeff Gower at 386-4321 or Ted Geilen at 386-4205. So you want 10 be considered for Financial aid? Well then APPLY! APPLY ON TIME! APPLY EACH ACADEMIC YEAR! Upperclass aid applications are available through the Financial Aid Office in Becker Hall. To be considered for all financial aid programs, FAFs are due to CSS by March 1, 1991. All other application materials are due to the Financial Aid Office by April15, 1991. Three minutes a day is all we ask • • • UNITED WAY Union College Celebrates N,at·ional Engineers Week By ALI SA GASS Engineers are an accomplishing group of individuals. Modern technology is a result of an engineer's hard work. For example,. magnetic resonance imagery, a modem day X-ray, is a process of looking into the body without radioactive isotopes that may cause potential damage to the human body. Yet engineering has not always been so complicated. Engineering became \engineering\ around the time of the Civil War. The founding father of tile United States, George Washington, was an engineer, a surveyor. As a result, National Engineers' Week is held at the time of Washington·s birthday. After Union's successful Engineers' Week program in 1990, Dean of E11gineering Larry Hollander has once again recommended that Professor Eggert chair a committee that has carefully planned the schedule of events for next week. Eggert's committee consists of faculty members Gregory Gifford, Lance Spallholz, John Spinelli, and Frank Wicks. The .students, representing organizations from each discipline of the department, are Jessica Gray, Monica Ihlenburg, Danielle Mathews, William Rankin, and Mark Renault. Staff members include Joanne Tobiessen, Eric Retzlaff, Patricia Tuccilo, and Joan Lonley. All scheduled events will take place from Tuesday, February 19, through Thtusday, the 21st. On Tuesday, students and faculty have the rare opportunity to see technology in process at the General Electric Plant Tour. A Union alumnus organized a two-hour tour of building 273, the turbine generator manufacturing facility, a method of advanced manufacturing. Later that day, in the Career Development Center, Ms. Tobiessen has coordinated a panel discussion entitled \Jump Start Your Career: Try aR Internship or Coop.\ The panel will be comprised of student<;, and the f<i>cus of the discussion will he how to get a t~1ste of the workiRg world prior to graduation. On Wednesday, an Order of the Engineer Induction Ceremony will be held in Hale House Dining Room. Here engineers will pledge to do his/her best for humankind. Membership is voluntary and for life; one is eligible if he/she is an engineering senior 'here at Union. Also on Wednesday, a volleyball tournament will be held; each department will volley for a llopcful victory in the Alumni Gym. Dr. Maranville, along with lih.e Minerva Huur Committee, scheduled R. Darryl Banks, a Deputy Commissioner of the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation to spiak at Union. His topic will be \Environment and Technology: The Development of Environmental Policy to Foster Beneficial Technology Development.\ Thursday evening will conclude with the Hudson-Mohawk Valley Section Dinner hosted by the local section of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. All students and faculty arc encouraged to attend. Charles R. Guinn will speak on \New York State's Energy Plan.\ Guinn is a deputy commissioner of NYS energy office, active in conservation, which has been around since 1974. Guinn studies how energy resources are distributed. His office organizes and administrates New York State's energy. In speaking to both Professor Eggert and Professor Wicks, they expressed an open invitation to all students and faculty. engineering and non- engineering. tQ partake in the week's activities. We can all stand to be enlightened. Union College Telephone Gift Certificates available at the Telecommunications Office CC103. Phone 370-6411 for more information.

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, February 14, 1991 Union College Chapter of A.C.M. The Society for Computing and Information Processing Now available in: - CtGloo1l1llimf § De§lk: . ~,s\l,DlM 0 $l,Sb Steinmetz 102 For 11se with Mac, lliM, Steinmetz 227 and other comp11ters! Beat the bookstore! Steinmetz 231 D v THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT and BIOLOGY CLUB Present INTRONS, RIBOZYMES and EVOLUTION IDJRI.. JJ~ILI. §AIL V«» Department or Human Genetics New York State Department of Health Thursday, February 14, 1991 4:40 SOCIAL SCIENCES Room 104 REFRESHMENTS 4:30 To the Campus Community: Heartfelt thanks to the many employees who contributed food and clothing to our drive for the City Mission. The need was truly great and our generous donations helped numerous individuals and families. Special thanks also to employees Paul Adamo, Charlie Casey, Bob Montana, former employee Kathy Funk Tourtellot, and alumnus Tim Howell '84 for soliciting special gifts for the City Mission's successful $100,000 Capital Fund Drive. To all those who participated in either endeavor, thanks for helping those in need. Sincerely, Paul Rieschick '7 4 Director of Alumni Affairs You asl(ed for JUMP START YOUR CAREER ... Try an Internship, Summer Job, or Co-op L•cnn .. &out the &enef~ts nn.c£ who.t to expect from. po.netLsts: :IJ<>rren CfmUe!) l'tE '92 'J~rone Yostcr C.f; '92 JessLc<> Gro.y !1.1: '92 Fern\'•Hio l\ti.tcheU: EE \92 N<>nC!J R.oth.,n&er<J :BS/!1.8 Ln cs '91 ~otn us Jor n panlit .t\scusslon ~>n.t refnshnunts: Tues.t~>y., Fc&ru~>ry 19 l>t 7 :llOptn ln CC 302 Sponsored for Ntt.tlona.t En9t.neert.n9 Week. by tft.t<CA.reeT De\d.opment Center Parents' Weekend is scheduled .for May 10-12, 1991. As usual, we anticipate an eventful and e:xciting time and we hope for a healthy campus. However, this can only be realized with your cooperation. I am sure that you have given thought to your participation in this tradition. So, as the time draws near, it is time for you to sh2.re those ideas with the group of people who will help you make it happen. Please contact the Dean of Students Office right away, before you misplace this reminder, and let us know what you intend to do. It will be helpful if you state your requests in· terms of what you had planned to do last year. That is, whether you wish to do the same thing or if you wish to change just a bit or d r as t i c a II y . As time passes, someone will contact yoLr for the details. In addition, we will send you instructions as to how the time and space will be utilized and how the food should be ordered. Right now, we are interested in what you are planning to do. As you probably know, the initial brochure is mailed to parents during Spring Break. In order to make the brochure as complete as possible so that people can plan to attend several of the activities, we really want to include your event. Remember, please contact Mrs. Facenda in the Dean of Students Office, X6061, by Thursday, February 21, 1991. She needs to know, the day, the time, the event, the location, and the contact person for your department or organization. Thank you very much. We look forward to working with you and making this year's event~ as good as it would .b.m!.a.b.e..en.last year. UNION COLLEGE a computer thatS real college material. BOOKSTORE COLLEGE CENTER We heard you. The ideal computer for college needs certain things. Like a mouse, to make it easy to use. Preloaded software, that'll let you create impressive papers with graphics and spreadsheets. And great tools, like a notepad, calendar and cardfile. It should also he expandable, so it can grow with your needs. The IBM Personal System/2• has all this at a special student price and affordable loan pay- ments. And on a different note, you can get a great low price on the Roland., Desktop Music System that transforms your IBM PS/2 11 with Micro Channel® into an exci~ oomprehensive music maker. The PS/2 is perfect for college because yo11 tdd us just \dlat yoo needed. And no one knows what it takes to be real college material better than yo11. HOURS MONDAY-FRIDAY 8:45 - 4:30 SATURDAYS 11:00-3:00 TELEPHONE 518 370-6188 FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONTACT MR. CHARLES BOSWORTH ---~ =--=::== = :-::. ::: ---·- ---·- •Th1s offer iS available only to qualified college studl!f1ts. faculty and staff that purchase ISM Selected Academe Solutions through participating campus outlets, IBM 1 800 222·7257 or IBM Authonzed PC Dealers certof~ed to rerm~rket 18M Selected Academic Solutions. Olders 1111 subject to l'lliability. Pr~ea are subject to.change and IBM may Withdraw t~ offer at any 111ne wothout wntten notiCe. IBM, Persooat System/2. PS/2 and Micro Channel.,.l8glSieled tnroclenialtts cf lntlmlliOnll Susl'ltlSs Machnes CCllp0ta11on. ®RolanciiS a registered llademark ol Roland ~iOil. US. o IBM Corpcralon1991

CONCORDIENSIS, February 14, 1991 Page 5 Yugo's By CARL R. FRIEDRICH, Jr. Walking around campus just the other day, thinking, among other things, 'What was I doing to do when I graduate?', and 'Where the hell am I?', I saw the most amazing thing. I was ambling along North Lane (you know, the one which runs through campus via the Ice Rink, Astroturf, and Gyrn), and all of a sudden a bright orange YUGO came speeding down the wet road with all of its might. Now, you may say that's more of a nightmare than anything else, but let me tell you what happened next. The car, revving at about_ 7,000 r.p.m.'s, approached a seemingly harmless puddle (even for a YUGO). Thea, as the fuzzy little foreigner driving it hit the puddle, the whole car disappeared. Amazing! I then figured out that this poor little Yugoslavian bobsled of a car had become a victim of a killer pothole from hell. The last I saw was its roof, as it sunk into the murky waters. Then a big air bubble emitted, like a giant burp by the gods of Hade&. My first reaction was obviously disbelief. Then I ran over and tried to provide some kind of aid to the fuzzy little foreigner. No luck - he had been unable to free himself from his orange beast. I even tied m.y shoe laces to my belt and drooped it in the waters, hoping it would serve as a rescue rope, but it also was no use. I pulled it out when an oblivious passerby asked me if I had caught anything. I ran down on the curb and wondered what to do. I knew that the potholes were bad, but whole YUGO's? Man, what was next? As I pondered this and other wonders of science, I noticed someone running towards me. At first he was just a speck, then he had legs and arms, then a face. Suddenly rny .old friend, Igor (pronounced I-gor), was upon me. \Igor!\ said I. \Fro-drich!\ he began, out of breath. \You'll never believe what I just saw!\ \A YUGO?\ \No he said, not skipping-a beat, \A SYSCO truck just disappeared in front of the main gate!\ Here I was trying to levitate my spontaneously disappearing YUGO, and now it had become a SYSCO truck. \Was a fuzzy little foreigner driving it?\ \I dunno. The last thing I remember was that it was driving through a huge puddle, and then it was gone. All that's FEATURES left was some 'kind of rn cat floating on the top of it.\ I was now beginning to :put this all together. There was a big hole in front of the gate! Ah, a connection! After telling him my YUGO story, we decided to go looking for other potholes around campus, which arc traditionally more notorious than Pebble Beach bunkers. We didn't find any (I must add that the smell of the steam from the mysterious and rand~m manhole covers around cam:pus had as much appeal as an unpaid bill), but when we returned to my YUGO's gr~und zero, we were shocked to see Mr. Spack there - filming an episode of \In Search Of.\ Fighting for space with him was Geraldo, who was insisting that Al Capone's safe was in the pothole, too. As if that was not enough, UnicJn's new tour guide, Julie McCoy, was on hand with some Oddities perspectives. On your left,\ she pointed, \is the largest pothole in the Western Hemisphere, which like the Noll Memorial, has sixteen sides.\ Little comfortformy foreigner. Being the recluses we are, Igor (he rloesn't get out much) and I decided to stay away from what was already a media circus. We instead decided to walk through Jackson's Gardens. to sort things out. When we got there, we saw yet another strange sight. Sitting by The Brook That Bounds was my foreigner. With him was what turned out to be the SYSCO driver. They were laughing, smoking butts, and eating cheeseburgers. \Hey what happened to you guys?\ Igor said as we approached them. After several cheeseburgers with them, and even more butts, they both e:xplained that they were sucked in by none other than Chester Arthur, who, because he never had cars j,n his day, was amassing a showroom underneath the CoHege. He sucked cars into the recurring potholes (and says \sorry\ to Physical Plant). In exchange for the cars he took, he granted each of the ow{lers ON(! wish. And to fhink \'! along that, in a perkrsion or Chicken LitLlc, I tlwught the ground was falling. \What did you wish for?\ Igor asked the SYSCO man. \Weil I a<>kcd for a fortune,\ he said opening a suitcase filled with crisp Ben Franklin's. \And you?\ I asked our foreigner. ··ra aska for another Y -goic. I lika them lots.\ I decided if I ever had a run-in with Chet Arthur, I'd ask for a steady job, but for now, I was content to sit, laugh, and caL c hccscburgcrs unti 1 Lhc sun went down. That's why I didn't have my llomcwork lasL week. WHERE WILL YOU BE FOR SPIUNG BREAK? WIN A TRAVEL PACKAGE AND CASH PRIZES OF $100 AND MORE AT THE STUDENT PHONATHON! FEBRUARY 17, 18 & 19 5:30 TO 9:30 HALE HOUSE DINING ROOM CALL STACI DUPRE,.ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF THE ANNUAL FUND, AT X6142 FOR MORE INFORMATION. PIC!I(rtlP BEAT THE LINES, GRAB A BAG LUNCH AND GO STARTING MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1991 OLD CHAPEL LOBBY MONDAY - WEDNESDAY - FRIDAY 12:00- 1:00PM MEAL CARD HOLDERS ONLY . . . ~. . . . - . - . ' ' . . . . ' . .. : . . - . ~ ' . . :

Pag~ 6 CONCORDIENSlS, February 14, 1991 FEATURES Drunk-Driving Penalties: A State-by-State ReportD Over the last decade, drunk driving laws have become noticeably stricter across the country. Propane n ts of manaatory jail sentences, hefty fines, and loss of licenses say these stringent measures, coupled with raising the legal drinking age to 21 country- wide, discourage first offenders from becoming repeat offenders. While the apparent result of these efforts has been a rcl'atively steady decline in the number of alcohol-related crasttcs annually, alcohol is still a factor in nearly half of all fatal car crashes. So some states are taking additional steps. I CAUF()RHIA CO~ORAOO CONNECTICUT DElAWARE FLORIDA GEORGIA KAWAU IElAIIO IWNillS lltlllAIIA I()W~ IWISAS LOUISI.I.ItA I&ISS.\CIIusms IIICHIGA!I lltNNESOTA , NEBflASI(A , lfEV~OA RNE ' 1150-$1 000 ' $Z50-S5 , 000 I $2511 mm S15~Sl 000 10• CS ,1 unable 10 pay) ' $3911-S1 000 !3QO-S1 000 S5QO-S1 000 S2QO-S1 000 S25D-S500 i $300-$1.000 S15D-S1 000 1 $1 000 max 51 000 max S5 000 max 5500-$1 000 or CS200 hrs .,ax ~ S20G-S500 ! 12oo-ssoo $30[)..$1 000 .. ______ - 1 $1.000 max $1(){)-$1 000 $1(){)-$500 $700 rna.< $2SIH1.000 $300-$500 s~oo-ssoo s2~o-s~ ooo , NEW HAMPSHIRE S• DOO rna>< Coutesy of Good Housekeeping A few states have passed their fami.Iies who tell how laws making it illegal to drunk driving crashes affected operate a motor vehicle with a them. blood alcohol concentration But no matter how stringent (BAC) of .08. It used to be the laws on the books become, .1 0. More states are expected to the sanctions imposed on an do the same. In some places, offender - including mandatory police cars are equipped with penalties - are at a judge's video cameras to document a discretion, and many offenders drunk driving suspect's plea-bargain to receive a lesser behavior during his arrest. And penalty. a growing number of judges are The chart below lists each adding community service and state's penalties for non-injury rehabilitation programs to an related convictions of first offender's sentencing. In one offenders. (For key to symbols, successful program, run by see bottom of page.) Do you Mothers Against Drunk think your state is too lenient- Driving, offenders have to face or perhaps too strict? Let your victim impact Panels made up legislators know! of drunk driving victims and JAIL ' 1 yr max 72 hr5 mm .-1 yr + CS • 24hrs-1yr orCS :96hrs-1yr ' · 5 <1avr1 yr ... CS 48 hrs. -96 hrs . 48 nrs -6 mos orcs 100 nrs 60 aays-5 mos. ~ Smos 'tl;u ... CS 50hri 10 Clays-1 f' 48 nrs -,orCS 72 hrs +ale -drug educ 6 mos m.u 1 yr max 60 oavs-1 yr ' 1 yr rnax 48 hrs -6 mas or CS100 rus i 48 h~ ·30 days or CS 2 dayo-30 days I , 10 days-6 mos. or 2 da'f$ rom. tn CS 4 !lays mm 1 ... substance-\1buse and drrver-educ prcg ; 1 Y' mar: ------------------- 1 1 yr rna.. 2 yrs max .;- CS 30 hrs mrn ' 90 day-s max - CS 12 days max. , 90 011.ys max I 24 hrs m.n LICENSE S 90 d•ysmln R 30 daY' min. S 90 dlys min. S 90 days-1 20 days 56 mas.. Under age 1 8 A 1 yr or unt•l reach , 8 St yr orR Under aDe 21 R 1 yr S 1 YL R90 day,_~ yr R 180dajH yr ~ S 120 Oays mLrt S30daysmm S 180 days ma.x R, yr Ur~cterage21 R 1 yr S30 day5 mm R 180 days S 30 ~ays mrn. S 30 daysot R 6 mos ... alcohol- education lftatmenl program S60days Under aoa 1e ~ 1 yr or untrl reach 17 S 45 dayr1 yr SSmos-2yrs R 30 cays S 3D dayt-1 yr 1 15 da~43 mos S 30 days-90 days Under age 21 R t ~r 24 ois -60 cays - CS S 6 mos I )()days R 60 daY'-<l mos : 2 !!ays orCS 4B hrs [!f rehabJitlatron tat(;en. R 45 days-90 aays , 1jay-CSl4hrs I R 90 daya-2 vrs -S.N. KEY: All penalties appearing in red are mandatory. CS: Community service (assisting in a hospital, picking up park litter.) R: Revocation of license (offender must apply for a new one after revocation term is up). S: Suspension of license (temporary term; license is returned to offender). , NEW JERSEY 525o-S400 - $80 1 8e ... $100 surcl\large : 30 Oays max ; A 6 mos.~1 t' i NEW MEXICO , NEW YORK , NORTH CAROLINA : NORlH DAKOTA ' OHIO ' O!LAHOMA ' OREGON PENNSYLVANIA ' RHDOE ISLAND SOUlK CAROLINA SOUlK OAKOT~ TINNESSEE TEXAS UTAH VERMONT VIRGINIA WASHINGTON WEST VIRGINIA WISCONSIN 131]()- SSOO : )() oays-90 days ~ R 1 'fl Plll-$500 , 1 1' \\\ R 6 mas 'Jnder ao-e 21 R 1 yr ~ .. co- ~4 llrs -oo days R 1 yr $250-SSOO ' )() days ma.< 1 S 30 days-91 cays $15D-51 000 3 days-? rnos 1 S 60 oays-3 yrs 'Jnder age 18- S (until 1 reacn 18 or complete 1reatmaflt orooram) S'OQ-SJOO 1 o days-' ~' ... cs R 30 days-90 days 12 500 \'\' ~ 4.8 111'1.-1 yr orcs eo llt!i.-~50 hrs 1 S 1 yr lOt u(llll rrunor reaches aqe 17) $30[)..55 000 J8 hrs -2 rrs orCS S 12 '!lOS · , yr .,ax • S3mos-6mos $200 l8 hrs -JO 1ays orCS 48 hrs. m10 56 'fiOS 11 JOD ' ,, S251l-S' DOD .t8hrs-11rnos. 2911avs -CS S10Q-S2 000 ·2 hrs -2 {rs .. CS S 90oays-365 :tavs ~, JOO .... sso-5201J 10 lunctrreatmenl J.6 hrs -6 'nOS ~r CS 24 hn -50 nrs · S 90 days l ;1rogram ·----=-~-..,-.: . ·- - ,_ - --------- --,..,....,..-J ~;so max $1 JOO max '2mos s:!SI)..$1 000 24 hrs -1 '{r 1100-5500 f day~ TICS S, 50-5300 - or CS S:\5Q max + $5Jllor 'lllcUm's lunll 5 mos 'T1aJ S 90 days t SorR6rnos- 1 rr unaeraae18 R 1 yr or unlll rea en <tge l8 : S 30 days-90 ::iavs or :nora R 9tJda~s-6mos i S 15 daji-9 ifto! : S 90 days Prepared with the help of the Office of Alcohol and State Programs, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. Current as of January 1, 1990. Good House- keeping/July 1990 Today is Valentines Daylll Match-Mates/ Tri It! I I SENIOR PRINTING DAY CHUC ROOM, HUMANITIES 11ASEMENT EVERY S~TORD~Y, 12:00-6:DO PH MATCH-MATES for Seniors on Saturday ··ill{ o par.e $5.00 mulmum per 1!1>1 Drink for the Designated Driver VALENTINE SODAS Ginger ale or carbonated drink strawberry ice cream Whipped cream 1 teaspoon strawberry preserves Pour ginger ale or anv clear carbonated drink over strawberry ice cream In tall glass. Top glass with fluffy whipped cream and strawberry preserves. Do not stint on lee cream. serve with large soda straws and Ice teaspoon. 1 SERVING Have you ever wondered why you haven't been able to find someone who interests you? Are you sick of trying to meet someone in a drunken state? If so, then try this new innovative route. All you have to do is anonymously submit a description of yourself describing your sex, year, interest, what you look for in a mate, and your box number (no names please). Then, Match-Mates will match you with a compatible mate by giving you his or her box number. We ask that you take this seriously. If you chose to participate you are obligated to correspond by mail to your chosen mate at least once. You may meet the perfect man or woman ... so give it a try! You have nothing to lose. Send all letters to Box #2036. The Tulsa Ballet is con·li ng to Proctor·s Theetre Thank you, Match-Mates SLJnday~ February 24th st 7:00 P .ry1. Tickets are avei labl e in Student Activities (cc40B) for $9.25

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, February 14, 1991 FEATURES Drunk-Driving Penalties: A State-by-State Report. Over the last decade, drunk driving laws have become noticeably stricter across the country. Proponents of mandatory jail sentei)ces, hefty fines, and loss of licenses say these stringent measures, coupled with raising the legal drinking age to 21 country- wide, discourage first offenders from becoming repeat offenders. While the apparent result of these efforts has been a ·relatively steady decline in the number of alcohol-related crashes annually, alcohol is still a factor in nearly half of all fatal car crashes. So some states are taking additional steps. Coutesy of Good Housekeeping A few states have passed their families who tell how laws making it illegal to drunk driving crashes affected operate a motor vehicle with a them. blood alcohol concentration But no matter how stringent (BAC) of .08. It used to he the laws on the books become, .10. More states are expected to the sanctions imposed on an do the same. In some places, offender - including mandatory police cars are equipped with penalties - are at a judge's video cameras to document a discretion, and many offenders drunk driving suspect's plea-bargain to receive a lesser behavior during his .arrest. And penalty. a growing number of judges are The chart below lists ·each adding community service and state's penalties for non-injury rehabili~tion pto~ams to an rel~ted convictions of first offenders sentencmg. In one offenders. (For key to symbols, successful program, run by see bottom of page.) Do you Mothers Against Drunk think your state is too lenient- Driving, ·Offenders have to face or perhaps too strict? Let your victim impact Panels made up legislators know! of drunk driving victims and ' 1yr max 72 tm mu\.-lyr + CS 1 24hrs-tyr orCS i 96hiS-1yl 5 dayt-1 yr + CS 48 hrs -96 hrs • 48 hrs.-£ mos arcs 100 nrs. . 60 Clays-6 mos , 6 mos. max ... C~ 50 hrs : 10 !lays-1 tr 48 nrs -,orCS 72 hrs +ale -dru~ educ. 1 6mos. max ; 1 yr mal: ~ 60days-tyr : 1 yr max • AS nrs ~ mos .orcs 100.nrs i 48 hli -30 days or CS 2 days-30 days , a days--6 mas or 2 days mrn. or CS 4 days mm + substance-atmse and driver-educ prog 1 1.yr max - - - --- - - -- - - - -- - IJCEHSE S 90 d•ysmin R3D claws mm. s 90 aovs min. s 90 days-120 days 56 mos. Und~r aOe 18 R 1 yr _or tiRtll reach 18 51 yr orR Underage21 R1 yr s, yr. R90dayH yl. R 180 days-1 yr S 120 days mm S 30 days mm S 180 days max. ~1yr Underage21 R1yr S 30 Days mm R 180 days S 30 dajls min. S 30 days orR 6 mos +alcohol- education trsarm~tnt pronram S 60 days Under age 18 R 1 yr or unt1J reach 17 · S 90 days RG mos -· S.N. KEY: All penalties appearing in red are mandatory. CS: Community service (assisting in a hospital, picking up park litter.) R: Revocation of license (offender must apply for a new one after revocation term is up.). S: Suspension of license (temporary term; license is returned to offender). 2yrs max .... CS3Dhrs.mm S451fays-1yr_ ~~~----r=~~------------+'~~~··~~~m~=-+~CS~1~2d=ay~sm~~~---+~S~6m~o~s-~2~Y\~~------~~ r===.==----~~~------------~·~w~oa~ys~m~~-----------+~R~30~da~ys~----------~~ ~~~~--r=~~~----------+l~24~h~IS~mu~-----------4~S~30~d~ay~~~~yr~-~--~~~~~ 15 clays-6 mos S 30 days-90 days Under age 21 R 1 yr ~ , 24 hrs_-oo days .... cs S 6 mos g ~~~~~~~~====~~~~~~~ 30 days R 60 oays-5 mos ~ 2 ca~s orcs AS hrs (If rehablliti!.t1on tl.ken. R 45 days-90 nays 1 jay- CS 24 hJS.) t 30 days max 30 <liys-90 days ' 1 ~r maJ~: ;::4 hrs.-60 days ; 30 days max J 3 days-; rnos • 10 days-1 yr - CS I 48 hrs.-t yr orCS 80 hn.-250 tus. ~8 tus.-Z tiS orCS • , yr .,ax .t8 hrs -10 aays orcs 48 hrs mtn. . ,, 48hrs-t1mos 29davs-CS 48 hrs -13 mos 1r CS 24 hrs -50 hrs • yr .,aJ '2 mos 24 hrs.-1 yr t day-6 mos ' 5 mas 'Tl;u. R 90 ~31\-2 yrs R G mos.-, yr R 1 yr. R 6 mas Under age 21· R 1 yr. I R 1 yr I s JD dayo-91 days I S60oays-3y\ Underag•18· S(unhl 1 reacn 18 or complete ueatment pr()IJrnm) ' R 30 day>-90 days ! S 1 yr lor un111 m1nor reaches age 17) S 1Zmos t S3mos.-6mos S6 rnos : R or prohlbtt dnvmg 30 tlays-1 yr . R or orohLt:ut drtv1ng 1 yr s 90 days-365 oavs , S90days I ; S orR 6 mas -1 1r UtldCr a~e 18: j R 1 yr. or unttl reach a~e 18 I S :1a days-90 davs or :nore R go days-6 mos 1 S 15 aay>-9 moj 1 S 90 days J Prepared with the help of the Office of Alcohol and State Programs, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. Current as of January 1, 1990. Good House- keeping/July 1990 Today is Valentine~ Day/ I I Match-Mates/ Tri It/!/ SENIOR PRINTING DAY CBUC ROOM, HUMANITIES BASEMENT EVERY S~TURD~Y, l2:oo-G:oo PK MATCH-MATES !or Senion on Saturda:r .. io.la pace $5.00 DliWtDUID per 4111 Drink for the Designated Driver VALENTINE SODAS Ginger ale or carbonated c;Jrink strawberry ice cream Whipped cream 1' teaspoon strawberry preserves Pour ginger ale or anv clear carbonated drink over strawberry ice cream In tall glass. Top glass with fluffY whipped cream and strawberry preserves. Do not stint on ice cream. serve with large soda straws and Ice teaspoon. 1 SERVING Have you ever wondered why you haven't been able to find someone who interests you? Are you sick of trying to meet someone in a drunken state? If so, then try this new innovative route. All you have to do is anonymously submit a description of yourself describing your sex, year, interest, what you look for in a mate, and your box number (no names please). Then, Match-Mates will match you with a compatible mate by giving you his or her box number. We ask that you take this seriously. If you chose to participate you are obligated to correspond by mail to your chosen mate at least once. You may meet the perfect man or woman ... so give it a try! You have nothing to lose. Send all letters to Box #2036. The Tulsa Ballet is con·1i ng to Proctor·s Theatre Thank you, Match-Mates Sunday~ February 24th at 7:00 P .rvt Tickets are avai 1 able in Student Activities (cc408) for $9.25

THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT and BIOLOGY CLUB Present MEANDERING with the MARSUPIALS: a BIOLOGICAL ODYSSEY DOWN UNDER, (with commentary asides concerning evolution in isolation and the wisdom of New Zealand Trout) !ll>[R(o J!DJE1!'JE~ 'II'Oil\ll!JE§§JE:N Department of Biological Sciences UNION COLLEGE Thursday, February 21, 1991 4:40 SOCIAL SCIENCES Room 104 REFRESHMENTS 4:30 e CONCORDIENSIS, February 14, 1991 Page 7 NEW COURSE SPRING TERM INTRODUCTION TO BLACK POETRY Eng. 340 T & Th 9:30-11 :20 Prof. Leonard A. Slade Professor Leonard Slade, chairman of the Africana Studies Deparatment at SUNY Albany and a widely published poet himself, will be offering this survey of black poetry in America from its origins tq the present day. There are no prerequisites for the course, which will carry Am-L credit for General Education. For further information contact the English Department. 1990•91 SPRING TERM PRESCHEDULING PROCEDURES- Prescheduling materials will be available at the Registrar's Office beginning FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22nd. Students shotJid review the course listing, consult with their adviser. and select the courses they wish to take. It is advisal:)le for students to have additional choices in mind in the event one or more of their first three choices is unavailable. TO PRESCHEDULE, EVERY STUDENT IS REQUIRED TO HAVE THEIR ADVISER SIGN THEIR PRESCHEDULING FORM. IF THE ADVISER IS UNAVAILABLE, STUDENTS SHOULD CONSULT WITH THE CHAIRMAN OF THEIR MAJOR DEPARTMENT. Some COiiJrSes are available only with the permission of the department! These are referred to as list or \card\ courses, and are indicated on the course listing by an asterisk (*). Lists for these courses will be posted by the departments on WEDNESDAY FEBRUARY 27tb.. SttJdents should sign these its to indicate an interest and then retu~n to the department on FRIDAY, MARCH 1st to find out whether or not they have been admitted to the course. Those admitted to a list course must get a reservation card from the department. In order to pick up a card, you MUST have your prescheduling form validated by the department. you are permitted to pick up no more than three (3) cards. PLEASE NOTE: CARDS NOT PICKED UP BY NOON ON MONDAY MARCH 4th WILL BE GIVEN TO THE NEXT PERSOt--1 ON THE WAIT LIST. NO ONE WILL BE ALLOWED TO PRESCHEDULE FOR A 'LIST' COURSE WITHOUT A CARD. Only these courses require permission cards Students will be admitted to Whitaker House at the time printed on their prescheduling form. Once tnside. they should verify that the courses they have chosen are not closed. If one or more courses are closed, they should sslect new ones and correct their prescheduling form. They should see a staff member in the Registrar's Office who will preschedule them. The date and time for each student's appointment is printed on the label of the prescheduling form. Students may not preschedule earlier than their assigned time. However, they may come any time AFTER their appointment time if their schedule permits. PBESCHEDULING WILL CONCLUDE ON FRIDAY. MARCH 8th Additional course changes may next be made during the \drop/add\ period at Registration in Apnl Students who do not plan to return to Unjun for the SPRING TERM except for seniors who are completing their requirements early. should NOTIFY THE DEAN OF STUDENTS OFFICE IMMEDIATELY Students whn will be on a Union Collere term abroad for the SPRING term do not need to preschedule their courses SPRING term course prescheduling will take plac.e from MONDAY MARCH 4th thru THURSDAY~ MARC~ 7•h in the Registrar's Office to Whitaker House Otfice of the Reg 1 strar . February. 1991 • Available to college students, faculty and staff* Low interest rate Affordable payments Up to $8,000 per loan -s ee Quick approval Easy to apply No application fee To apply for an IBM PS/2® Loan for Learning. v1s1t your campus outlet or call the Nell1e Mae Loan Hotline at 1 (800) 634-9308. oan. UNION COLLEGE BOOKSTORE COLLEGE CENTER HOURS MONDAY-FRIDAY 8:45-4:30 SATURDAYS 11:00-3:00 TELEPHONE 518 370-6188 FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONTACT MR. CHARLES BOSWORTH --- .-.r1 ----- ----- --- - -- --- - .. - --.aJ ----- ------'- • The loan off~r os avaolable only to qualified students. faculty and staff who purchase IBM PS/2 s through p81\1ocopatong campus outlets Applicants must have a • combined mono mum annualoncome of $20,000 to be efigible. • IBM and PS/2 are regostered trademarks of International Business Mach ones Corporation €: IBM Corporation 1990,

i' THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT and BIOLOGY CLUB Present MEANDERING with the MARSUPIALS: a BIOLOGICAL ODYSSEY DOWN UNDER, (with commentary asides concerning evolution in isolation and the wisdom of New Zealand Trout) !Ill~. IP>IE'If!E~ '!I'((]Il!\ll!E§§!EN Department of Biological Sciences UNlON COLLEGE Thursday, February 21, 1991 4:40 SOCIAL SCIENCES Room 104 REFRESHMENTS 4:30 e CONCORDIENSIS, February 14, 1991 Page 7 NEW COURSE SPRlNG TERM INTRODUCTION TO BLACK POETRY Eng. 340 T & \\fh 9:30-11:20 Prof. Leonard A. Slade Professor Leonard Slade, chairman of the Africana Studies Oeparatment at SUNY Albany and a widely published poet himself, will be offering this survey of black poetry in America from its origins tq the present day. There are no prerequisites for the course, which will carry Am-L credit for General Education. For further information contact the English Department. 1990·91 SPRING TERM PRESCHEDULING PROCEDURES- ?rescheduling mate.rials will be available at the Registrar's Office beginning FRIDAY. FEBRUARY 22nd. StiJdents should review the course listing, consult with their adviser, and select the courses they VJish to take. It is advisable for students to have additional choices in mind in the event one or more of their first three choices is unavailable. \TO PRESCHEDULE, EVERY STUDENT IS REQUIRED TO HAVE THEIR ADVISER SIGN THEIR ?RESCHEDULING PORM. IF THE ADVISER IS UNAVAILABLE, STUDENTS SHOULD CONSLJL\T WITH THE CHAIRMAN OF THEIR MAJOR DEPARTMENT. Some courses are available only with the permission of the departmen.t! These ~re referred to as list or \card\ courses, and are indicated on the course listing by an a$terisk (\). Lists for these courses will be posted by the departments on WEDNESDAY E.EBRUABY 27th. Students should sign these its to indicate an interest and then return to the department on FRIDAY, MARCH 1st to find out whether or not they have been admitted to the course. Those admitted to a list course must get a reservation card from the department In order to pick up a card, you MUST have your prescheduling form validated by the department. you are permitted to pick up no more than three (3) cards. PLEASE NOTE: CARDS NOT PICKED UP BY NOON ON MONQAY MARCH 4th WILL BE GIVEN TO tHE NEXT PERSON ON THE WAIT LIST. NO ONE WILL BE ALLOWED TO PRESCHEDULE !=OR A 'LIST' COURSE WITHOUT A CARD. Only these courses require permission cards. Students will be admitted to Whitaker House at the time printed on their.prescheduling form. Once inside, they should verify that the courses they have chos.en are not closed. If one or more courses am closed, they should select new ones and correct their prescheduling form. They should see a staff member in the Registrar's Office who will preschedule them. The date and time for each student's appointment is printed on the labeJ.of the prescheduling form Students may not preschedule earlier than their assigned time. However, they may come any time AFTER their appointment time if their schedule permits. PBESCHEDULING WILL CONCLU PE ON FRIDAY MARCH 8th, Additional course changes may next be made during the \drop/add\ period at Registration in April Students who do not plan to return to Uojoo for the SPRING TERM except for seniors who are completing their requirements early, should NOTIFY THE DEAN OF STUDENTS OFFICE! MMEDIATELY Students who will be on a Union College term abroad for the SPRING term do not need to preschedule their courses. SPRING term course prescheduling will take place from MONDAY MARCH 4th thru THURSDAY MARCH 7th in the Registrar's Office in Whitaker House. Office of the Registrar . February. 1991 • Available to college students, faculty and staff* Low interest rate Affordable payments Up to $8,000 per !Qan -s ee Quick approval Easy to apply No application fee T? ~pply for an IBM PS/2® Loan for Learning, v1s1t your campus outtet or can the Nellie Mae ... _ ...... _ ... __ ... ___ ,._ · .. - ... oo:..-_-:..,._- ... - ......... -_ ... __ .,.,__. Loan Hotline at 1 (800) 634-9308. oan. UNION COLLEGE BOOKSTORE COLLEGE CENTER HOURS MONDAY-FRIDAY 8:45-4:30 ~ATURDAYS 11:00-3:00 TELEPHONE 518 370-6188 FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONTACT MR. CHARLES BOSWORTH ----- _, ------ ... ---- --- .. ~--- --- ---- ----- _ ___,-.- 'The loan off~r IS available.o~ly to qualified students. faculty anci'Staff wno pl.lrchase IBM PS/2's through partiCJpatmg campus outlets Applicants ITI~St have a • comb1ned m1mmum annual1nc:ome.of $20,()00 to be eligible. • IBM an!! PS/2 are reg1s1ered trademarks of International B~smess Mac11111es Corporation. e IBM Corporation 1990.

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, February 14, 1991 INTERN A TI,ONAL FEATURES EYE O'N THE WORLD By ED MENKE By ED MENKE It's not easy for someone of my generation to completely understand what it means to live under apartheid, to live in a completely racially segregated society. Drown vs. Board of Education in 1954 was years before my time. I was not alive during the life of Dr. Marlin Luther King Jr. I was not around when the signs on the doors of public rest rooms changed from \all black\ and \all white\ to \men's\ and \ladies\', \buoys\ and \gulls\ and the like. And, although I don't live in Cape Town, I know a little bit about what has been going on in South Africa as of late. I can't personally relate to all of it I'm not saying that I can. I'm just saying that there is plenty of work that still needs to be done. South African President F.W. de Klerk decided on February 1 to repeal the laws which were the building blocks upon which racial discrimination was based. However, the generations upon generations of blacks and whites who were born and mised with apartheid as a part of their lives will need more than just legal action in order to really start the uneasy process of integration. Simply put, President de Klerk has made some good strides. However, his critics claim that the government has solidified all possibilities, economic and social, for whites, while making it seem that the apartheid's barriers between blacks and whites are crumbling. While laws which were discriminatory against blacks are now gone, the opportunities are just not there, realistically, for blacks. Good examples of this involve the Group Area Act and the Land Acts. Tbese laws limited first where non-white South Mrican citizens are allowed to live and then what property they can own. Even though these laws have been lifted by President de Klerk, the fact still remains that most blacks can't afford to live in any other areas, nor can they afford to own great amounts of property. On Friday, in a press conference which included The New York Times, Nelson Mandela asked flatly, \What is the use of repealing the Group Areas Act and Land Acts when the government has given me no resources to take advantage of the situation.?\ So then, what must he done? Many critics have called upon the government to pay for the inequalities in education between the races. Currently, the government spends four times the amount of money on a white student's education than it does on a black student's. The government, however, claims that, in order to balance out the skewed distribution of money allotted, they would have to allocate 40% of their budget to education, something which they cannot afford to do. I'm no financial wizard. r can't solve the problems of an entire cguntry, just like the next guy. However, from what I do know, President de Klerk is going to have to do more than repeal laws and reverse some racial tensions. Big changes are a must if the government really wants to do something. Pray for tlie safe return of a{[ tfiose in the Persian (julf \How does this year's Spain term abroad compare with last year's? Stay tuned ... \ GOOD NEWS! Foreign language news programs will be shown in the Language Lab (HU 010). All are welcome to attend. Schedule: MONDAYS, WEDNESDAYS & FRIDAYS: FRENCH 1:30PM .GERMAN 3:00PM SPAl\l'ISH 4:06 PM TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS: HEBREW 1:30 PM CHINESE 2:00PM JAPANESE 3:00 PM RUSSIAN 4:~0 PM ·Come and watch the news! News programs are also transmitted from many other countries and will be recorded upon request. Faculty are welcome to borrow tapes. Ordinarily) they are kept in the lab for two weeks. For more information) call Carol Snyder, Language Lab Technician] X6216. LANGUAGE LAB HOURS: lv!ONDAY-FRJDAY 8:30Al'r1-4:30Plvf SUNDAY-THURSDAY 7:00Pl'Yf-9:00PM Multicultural Ta,ble Feb. 14th Topic: Kwame Ture: A Discussion of His Presentation Table open trom i 1:30-1:30 Talk: After Minerva Lecture Upper Class Dinning Rm CC Japanese Girl's Day Celebration and Doll Display The public is cordially invited to join· members of the Japanese Cultural Association of the Capital District in a celebration of a un;lquely Japanese custom-Girl's Day, Sunday, March 3rd at 2 p.m. at the McKownville United Methodist Church on Route 20 just west of the Northway exit. Associated with this custom is the habit o1 displaying special. dolls. Th'ere will be' an exhibition of Japanese dolls belonging to members o1 the Society. Japanese exchange students from the Cultural Homestay Institute will describe the customs associated with Girl's Day in their homes. refreshments will be served and admission is free. Movie: LANGUAGE TABLE SCHEDULE, WINTER, 1991 DUTCH HOLLOW DINING ROOM Everyday, 12:30-1:30 SUPPORT OF THE TROOPS IS NOT PRO WAR. \TIE ME UP, TIE ME DOWN\ Sponsored by the Spanish Club Friday night • 7:00 p .. m. 4th Floor Lounge in C.C. - Bring a Friend - Mondays FRENCH, HEBREW Tuesdays CHINESE Wednesdays SPANISH Thursdays GERMAN Fridays RUSSIAN; JAPANESE

CONCORDIENSIS, February 14, 1991 Page 9 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES To Fly Or Not To· Fly By STEPHANIE DAVIS and KIMBERLEE BRODY Due to the war in the Gulf, there has been much speculation about the safety of airline ·travel. Many remember Flight 103 Lockerbie and the Achillae Lauro incident. These and other terrorist actions have led many to remain on the ground. For example, 80% of American travel to London has declined. In response to this, Brit Air has decreased their price of a tickeL(rom New York to London by 3J%. In 1990, a flight in spring or fan ' was $778 and $938 in the summer, while in 1991 it costs $481 to fly in the spring or fall and $588 in the summer. TWA has decreased the price of their tickets by 50%. The decision not to fly does not only apply to international flights, hut domestic ones as well. Travel agents report a significant decrease in flights to such frequent stops as Florida and California. It has also been noted that many college students will not be travelling by ai~ for Spring Break. For those who have opted to 11y, airport security has been ATTENTION: French Club Dates: Today (and every Thursday) from 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. Coffee Hour, CC in the back left comer (near the piano). Monday, February 18th: Manon of the Spring (a movie, with subtitles) at 7 p.m. CC 4th Floor Lounge. Happy Valentine's Day From International Features I love you English Je t'aime French Tequiero Spanish Ich liebe Dich German Teamo Latin Tiarrio Italian Ji~JJO 1ittSe Russian Jag alskar dig Swedish Ja Cie kocham Polish Ja volin'te Serbo-croatian Moin Rin Mion Creole strengthened .significantly. Measures t'hat airports are taking on include extensive questioning on the traveler's baggage and destination. Special attention is placed on suspicious-looking Arabs. Airports are frisking everyone and there are random bag searches as well. Batteries must be taken out of luggage before going through inspection. No electric equipment is permitted on flights. Only one carry-on bag is permitted, which is searched before the traveler boards the plane. There is no longer curbside check-in. There are also bomb-detecting dogs These extra measures have not been exclusive to very large airports. Smaller airports, such as Westchester Airport, have taken the threats of terrorism quite seriously. Short-term parking has been eliminated to lessen the fear ofa bomb scare. Travelers are also required to arrive several hours in advance for all flights. What does this all mean to the country? The economy is suffering due to this fear of terrorism. Airlines, travel agents, hotels, restaurants and gift shops have been affected the greatest. Travelers have postponed trips until the end of the war, which has led to hotel and restaurant cancellations. Large attractions, which have always attractrd tourists, like Disneyworld, have also felt the stings of terrorism .1'hc White House and tht: Pentagon have been closed to the public. These areas have been cited as possible missile targets. There have been many airline layoffs, thus, having an ad'lerse effect upon the economy. When will this end? Unfortunately, experts predict that the fear of terrorism will not disappear when the war is resolved. Acts of tcrrGrisrn will continue by factions of people wishing to make a <>Latcmcnt. No matter who the victor is, incidents will con tinllc. .!111-ID-IIIIsCIIIIIIIIIIIIDiilllllliltiiiCIIIIIIIIIIIIatiiiiiiiHIICtiHIIIIIIIKHIIIIIftlllllallllllllllllati~IIIDIIII, ·I ~~®n© Come and meet &IJ3rg&f@ 1 - - - - - - a = - .. - - I Three Soviet Composers I a = z = I § 1 at an informal get-together on i - - ·1 Wednesday, February 20, 1991 1 I at 7:;30 p.m. in 1 E s & Campus Center - Room 302 i - - = a I Sergei Pavlenko • I a = i Composer from Moscow a = = - - - - a 1 - - - - = a i Tatiava Sergeeva• i = = i Composer from Moscow ~ = = - - - - = = a a - - I Alexander Knaifel• § - - = = · g Composer from Leningrad 1 - - = a = - ! Sponsored by I i the I = = D Russian Club of Union College I = JiiAJ \ © a i lllW@.gy\ ~·~ ®~ I = #~ = a ~- = ~IIIII.IIID·I-IImiiiiiiiiiDIIIIIIIIIIM.1111111111Ut1111111111DIIIIII.Ir11111111111111llllllllllllrJIIIII·--= Celebrate the CHINESE NEW YEAR with the Asian Student Unio.n. See the Dragon Dance, Asian Fashion Show,· and MORE ! ! ! In the C. C. Atrium at 6:30 P.m. , Monday, February 18

Page 10 CONCORDJENSIS, February 14, 1991. ENVIRONMENTAL Use and Reuse Changing the Way The Campus Drinks By FRANZ LITZ Environmental Editor It was an interesting scene this past weekend. Environmentalism-- and just plain common sense has changed the way Union students are drinking. The old 12-ounce plastic disposable cups are soon to become an endangered species on our campus. We Care About U issued their reusable plastic mugs one week ago today, with the help of the Interfraternity Council, Panhellenic Council, Dining Services, and Student Forum. All : things considered, the response at various different social events on campus was tremendously encouraging. Witll every beer, every glass of punch, and every soda at the dining hall, students are reminded that their actions have ramifications for the environments in which they live. They are able Lo experience a feeling of having done something responsible for that environment, a feeling which encourages more environmentally sound behavior. The sooner this sort of behavior becomes more common in our day to day life, the better the chances for a cleaner, safer world around us. Some fraternities, one may have noticed, continued to supply the disposables to those without their cups. Some cited the extremely short notice given by We Care About U concerning the start date of the plan. The cups were placed in students' boxes on Thursday, leaving very little time for fraternities to warn their guests of the change. One social chairman with whom I spoke planned to print a warning on all future invites: \&ring your own : cup-- no disposable cups :tvailable.\ Even with the disposables available, the majority of students brougilt along their new We care About U cups. Many seemed to ha~e 11sed the cup for personal graffiti in order to be able to distinguish their cups from others. The IFC voted to support the plan at the end of fall term, which involved a $75 contribution per house and the agreement to stop buying and handing out disposable cups. Some fraternity members were hesitant to change, despite the fact that they will be saving, on average, five times the contribution on the plastic cups tbey otherwise would be buying. Despite the hesitance, they have adopted the plan. The enthusiasm among students makes their future compliance all that much easier. The initial success of the reusable beer cups demonstrates just how easily, disposable, throw-away, items can be replaced by reusable ones. The con\renience offered by paper plates and plastic utensils, for example, could be sacrificed for the benefit of the environment. Disposable coffee cups could be our next step on campus. How many hundreds of paper coffee cups leave this campus every week in a garbage truck? Hundreds, easily. Maybe over a thousand. Travel mugs are handy, and can be purchased in many locations. They also keep coffee warm longer and usually hold more. Let us all follow the example provided by the We Care About U cups. The campus has taken another step towards environmental responsibility. Each successful step we take demollstrates the relative ease in making such changes in our lifestyles. It requires only a thought, and the will to hold down the garbage heap. V\brth Saving-. FACTS: Did You Know? -A faucet that drips once each second can waste more than 10 gallons of water per day. - Americans use on average 100 gallons of water per day. -Fossil fuels provide more than 80% of the world's energy. - Of the conventional means of producing electricity, nuclear energy is currently the most expensive. -In one year, traffic congestion alone wasted 3 billion gallons of gasoline in the U.S.- about 5% of the nation's annual gas consumption. (!/) !NI u@ !NI ©@!i!lJ~@~~ {Jj)~&

CONCORDIENSIS, Feb1·uary 14,.1991 Page 11 \Paleontological expeditions: In quest of the unknown\ EarlyCr<ta=os Deinonychu:r A special colloquium of the Union College Geology Department by A TTENTI()N Sl~l()~ ~ COMPANIES WITH OPENINGS S\'''LL REMAINING !:luniWII Mil hlt I«~:\ lad Bmu.itfne Ilatc AGS INFO. SERVICES ALL r.lA:J()RS 2/19t'JI CENTRAL HtlDSON EE,ME 2/28/91 GAS & ELECrRIC Dr. John Ostrom Yale University Professor, Department of Geology and Geophysics Curator, Peabody Museum of Natural History Wednesday, 27 February 1991 8:00PM Social Sciences Building, Room SOI6 A reception will follow Dr. Ostrom's lecture THIS W:EEK AT UNION CVSPHARMACY AU. MAJORS 2127/91 FAli'IOUS FOOTWEAR ALL MAJORS 2126/91 GEARY CORPORATION Feb - 23 Feb 1991 17 CS, MT/CS,·CS RELATED 2122/91 HODGKINS AGENCY ALL MAJORS 2125/91 INNOVATIVE INFOSYSTEMS CS, AU MAJORS 2/18/91 !'OBACKERCOMPA.'IY ALL MAJORS 3/SfJI NAVAL UNDERWATER EE.ME 2128/91 NORTHWESTERN MIITUAL ALL MAJORS 2l! li91 O'BRIEN & GERE CE. ENV. STIJDIES u:zom OTIS ELEVATOR ME 3/6/91 RALSTON PURINA/BEECHNUT EE.M:E. 3/6/91 ·UP JOHN SCIENCE 3/11'!1 US PATENT & TRADEMARK EE.M:E. 3n/91 SCHOOL FOR FIELD STUDIES INFO. SESSION· FEBRUARY 191h AT 1:00PM Feb 17 - Sunday CCAud Film: Pretty Woman Nal'l Engineers Week ·> Feb 18 - Monday 12~0 PM CC302 Women's Speal<or t..unch 3:45 PM CC302 Prog. lld. 4:110 PM Hu 117 Class>cs Oapl. Speaker Feb 19 - Tuesday 12:00 PM CC302 Plateful : \Class\ 5:00 PM CC205 Newman Supper Winteriest 7:30 PM PAS Concert: Scott Hirni Piano 7:00 PM CCA<Jd BHM Film 9:00 PM. CC302 Free Film Ser:es 7:00 PM OC BHM Speaker: 'Prof. Coila Clark\ 7:30 PM CC302 CDC Nal1 Eng 'N< Eveol 8:00 PM Men's B·Ba/1 A TTENTI()N JUNI(l~S & S()Jltl()M()~ES PAID SUMMER INFERNSHIP Feb 20 • Wednesday7:ooPMCC4osspanishCtubF.tm CCAud F1lm: Kiss of the . Carmen Allstate is offering a paid internship to Junim and SopOOtncm:s with upper level classes this sum- mer as Claim Representatives. \They will ba:vc a reprcsenta:tive,inmviewiitg on campus Friday. M!n:h I. To sign up stop by lhc CDC with )'our resume b)l \Vcdncsdlly, February 27. All majors arc welcome to apply. Slots will be available on a first-come. ;fust~served basis. Spi<lerwoman Apple introduces the Jlacintosh LC. · If you thought that finding a color Macintosh® system you could afford was just a dream, then the new, affordable Macintosh LC is a dream come true. The Macintosh LC is rich in color. Unlike many computers that can display only 16 colors at once, the Madntosh LC expands your paleue to 256 colors. It also comes 'With a microphone and new sound -input technology that lets you personalize your work by adding voice or other sounds. Like every Macintosh computer, the LC is easy to set up and easy to master. And it runs thousands of available applications that all work in the same, consistent way-so once you've learned one program, you're well on yow: way to learning them all. The Macintosh LC even lets you share infor- mation with someone who uses a different type of computer -thanks to the versatile Apple® SuperDrive~ which can read from and write to Macintosh, MS- DOS, OS/2, and Apple II floppy disks. Take a look at the Macintosh LC and see what it gives you.1hen pinch -yourself. It's better than a dream~ ifs a Macintosh.- ·· UNION COLLEGE BOOKSTORE COLLEGE CENTER ... HOURS MON. - FRI. 8:45 • 4:30 SAT. 11:00 • 3:00 TELEPHONE 518 370-6188 FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONTACT CHARLES BOSWORTH I. . Feb 21 - Thursday 7:00PM oc BHM Speake· ·~egacy of Malcolm X\ Men's Swim. (State Meet) ~1:30AM CCAUD Minerva: Fl. Darryl Banks 11 :30 AM CCUCDH Mullicultural Table Feb 22 - Friday Men's Swim. (Sta!e Meet) SSOI6 Film: Narrow Margin Feb 23 - Saturday CCAud Film: Narrow Margin Men's Swim. (State Meet) 3.45 PM Hu213 Philosophy Coiloqu•a 7:00 PM CCAud BHM Speaker Jc'·' Amos 7:30 PM CC302 Coffeehouse 8:00 PM Men's B-Ba/1 2:00 PM Men's B·Ball 3:30 PM Old Ch. Gospel Fes:.vat 6.00 PM UCDH BHM Cut1nary Expose· This calendar Is presented by 1he College Cen1ertStudent Activi11es Programming Board. X611B. f! v.pon ( S1mpbfy I tn.n1>:form QEramples 0 L([M y+ 4y 1 = Ll8l 2 0 -L;s- 1 + 2 !!(1-t.O)+s' J=l 0 -Y(l.O)-S!f(O.O)+s 2 Y tl® The powerto be your besC <01990 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple togo, and-Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Compulur, Inc. SupcrDrlve and \Tho power to btl yourt>est\ are ltademarksot Apple Computer. Inc MS·DOS Is a registered lrac:kmark ol Microsoft CorporaUon. OS/2 Is a regtalered trademark oltntomattonal Business Machines Corporation.

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, February 14, 1991 <Unnrorbirnsis LETTERS ------ FQzmded at Union College 1877--- ALAS Unknowingly Offensive To Zionists Ture Fallout Sparks Diversity Debate Undermining Multiculturalism To the Editor: I am writing this letter to ·Concordiensis because I am How serious .a commitment will Union make to troubled about what occurred 1 . 1 r \'! I h on Friday, February 8. ALAS mu ucu tura 1sm : t seems t. at the answer is being thrust felt the need to be \educated\ upon us faster than even President Hull could have and they felt the best way to do imagined. At his inauguration he spoke of a ... symbiotic, this was to bring in Kwame multicultural flow\ that will benefit the students who are Ture. I was not familiar with brought here from other cultures, as weH as the students what Kwame Ture stood for already here. In some ways, Union is moving toward until a few days before the Hull's vision. in other ways, Union is remaining set in engagement. The question that its Eurocentric ways. The message is unclear. I have is why did ALAS feel The backbone of today's Union College education is the need to bring in a speaker the carefully formulated General Education curriculum. It that could and did offend a large sets strict standards for a traditional Western European percentage of the school. The grounding. It requires students to devote a substantial Jewish population has never reacted well to the ideas and portion of their classes to selected courses in these fields. methods of Kwame Ture. This Its ulso places demands on professors who are unable to is evident in the protests that teach certain courses because they must instead teach were staged in Albany last courses that fall into the categories. spring. The requirements of Gen Ed are not burdens if the People from ALAS did College sincerely believes that this is the most effective attend the lecture last year and way of assuring the best education for all. When The must have been aware of the National Review rated Union among its top 50 liberal protest that was raised, but I arts schools in the country, it did so largely thanks to wasneverapproachedastheco- U nion's conservative image and also the conservative president of the JSU to find out nature of Gen Ed. The magazine frowned upon schools our feelings and objections. In fact, I was the one that had to with vocal left wing elements, and schools with' question ALAS. Besides the commitments to multiculturalism. obvious objections to Kwame When the public relations office got word of the Ture, there were a few incidents ranking, it tooted Union's horn by sending scores of that do not set well with me. releases to the media. For the PR office, at least, The First, I was notified by Dean National Review's high regard for Union was most Williams that the original welcome. If President Hull and the powers that be at plan for publication of Friday Union College have the same positive opinion of the night's speaker was to be ranking, then p nion's commitment to multiculturalism announced on Thursday. This must come into question. was to avoid conflict. ALAS h must have known what Kame T e next few years will indicate which direction Union stood for and the reaction that takes in the increasingly multicultural world. Will we he would receive. Next, I was brag about being less multicultural than our Ivy League informed that no one knew that counterparts, only one of which appeared in The National Kwame would be fo11nd to be Review standings? Or will we bring meaning to offensive. How could this be? President Hull's words by diversifying our students and our curricula? Can we do the latter while keeping Gen Ed in place, maintaining a strong engineering program, and at the same time throwing in an option for a minor? Speak Softly and Carry a Big Stick Promoting multiculturalism at campuses across the country, Union included, has proven to be (as perhaps was expected) an incredibly difficult task. Recent incidents occurring at colleges claiming to have overcome this plateau have unfortunately proved otherwise. Small private colleges which Union oftentimes tries to emulate through adoption of similar academic policies are battling both the causes and effects of racism and prejudice on their campuses; One need only to pick up the latest copy of the New Republic for a more detailed discussion of the problems plaguing many of these elitist schools. But these problems are by no means unique to a select group of schools. Last Friday evening, Kwame Ture (formerly Stokeley Carmichael) spoke in Memorial Chapel as part of ALAS's commemoration of Black History Month. Stating that his lecture was emotiona.l and conscience- raising would not be off base at all. And in fact stirring the consciences of those present on such a cold and dreary night also provided great opportunity for reflection on Ture's comments. Regardless of your political positi()n on philosophies such as capitalism and socialism, and your perspectives on religion, Ture sparked emotion on an otherwise somber campus. The oftentimes dramatic means by which Ture expressed himself during his lecture do not have to constitute the means by which this campus confronts issues of multiculturalism. In fact, as evidenced by occurrences at \politically active\ campuses, these means might just as well be put aside. Each of us is aware of the importance in dealing with the issues of multiculturalism. This month in particular we are urged to better understand these issues, and are given a wealth of opportunity to do just that. If you haven't already done so, organize your calendar (not a revolution) and make a point of attending some of these scheduled events sponsored by members of ALAS .. Letters to the Editor do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the Editorial Board AIL LEITERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED AND SUBMITIED TO THE CONCORDffiNSIS OFFICE BY 4:00 P.M. ON THE TUESDAY PRECEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDlENSIS. ANONYMOUS LETIERSAND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED. The student that introd11ced. him informed the aJJdience of Kwame's views on Zionism. The story that I heard all week was \I don't know what Zionism is.\ Then take the time to become educated. How do you bring. a speaker on campus who is avowed to be an anti-Zionist and not know what an anti-Zionist is. Kwame stated that no Jew co11ld be a Zionist, then what am I? Before this week I never would have classified myself as a \Zionist\ but rather a Jew that understands the need for Israel I realize that a majority of this article focuses on the Zionist issue presented by Kwame Ture. I would like to emphasize that K warne did not devote the entire portion of his engagement to advocating the anti-Zionist stance. I have advised anyone who was troubled to write to Concordiensis and voice their opinion as a member of the Union Community. What else can emerge? First, dialogue between ALAS and the student body. This has begun. Tonight for over two hours the leaders of ALAS and the JSU met and diSCllSSed the reasons for Kwame Tore's appearance on campus. I am satisfied to say that ALAS did not intend any malicious actions and it is an unfortunate side effect. I have e.?;tended an offer to ALAS to co-sponsor an event with the JSU that would provide an educational outlet for any fi'Ilstration that might have occurred .. I will be waiting for their response. As a responsible leader I can only ask that future groups . who bring speakers to Union will be more considerate to the feelings of tile community and make more of an effort to communicate before and after the event with the group in question. I woul<i also like to commend :the community for their mature response to what could have been an ugly situation. I would also like to point out that Professor Greenberg is attending a \Bagel Brunch\ at the Kosher kitchen located on tile ground floor of West on S11ll.day,. February 17 (look for flyers). His topic will be the term abroad to Israel, and I am sure we can convince him to tie ill the Zionist issue and explain Zionism to anyone who would be curious, so please attend .. Thank you, Seth Ellis '91 Co-president of JSU Three minutes a day is all we ask ... UNITED WAY

CONCORDIENSIS, February J..l, 1991 <Hnnrorbtrnsts -----Founded at Union College 1877--- Ture Fall out Sparks Diversity Debate Undermining Multiculturalism How serious a commitment will Union make to multicultural ism'? It seems that the answer is being thrust upon us faster than even President Hull could have imagined. At his inauguration he spoke of a \symbiotic multicultural flow\ that will benefit the students who are brought here from other cultures, as well as the students already here. In some ways, Union is moving toward !lull's vision. in other ways, Union is remaining set in its Eurocentric ways. The message is unclear. The backbone of today's Union College education is the carefully formulated General Education curriculum. It sets strict standards for a traditional Western European ~rounding. It requires students to devote a substantial fll)rtion of their classes to selected courses in these fields. Its also places demands on professors who are unable to teach certain courses because thcv must instead teach l't)Urses that fall into the categories.- The requirements of Gen Ed are not burdens if the College sincerely helieves that this is the most effective way of assuring the best education for all. When The :\ational Review rated Union among its top 50 liberal arts schools in the country, it did so largely thanks to l:nion's conservative image and also the conservative nature of Gen Ed. The magazine frowned upon schools with vocal ldt wing clements, and schools with' commitments to multiculturalism. When the public relations office got word of the ranking, it tooted Union's horn by sending scores of releases to the media. For the PR office, at least, The l\ational Review's high regard for Union was most wdcome. If President Hull and the powers that be at Cnion College have the same positive opinion of the ranking, then Union's commitment to multiculturalism must come into question. The next few years will indicate which direction Union takes in the increasingly multicultural world. Will we brag about being less multicultural than our Ivy League counterparts, only one of which appeared in The National Review standings? Or will we bring meaning to President Hull's words by diversifying our students and our curricula? Can we do the latter while keeping Gen Ed in place, maintaining a strong engineering program, and at the same time throwing in an option for a minor? Speak Softly and Carry a Big Stick Promoting multiculturalism at campuses across the country, Union included. has proven to be (as perhaps v.:as expected) an incredihly difficult task. Recent incidents occurring at colleges claiming to have overcome this plateau have unfortunately proved otherwise. Small private colleges which Union oftentimes tries to emulate through adoption of similar academic.: policies are battling both the causes and effects of racism and prejudice on their campuses. One need only to pick up the latest copy of the New Republic for a more detailed discussion of the problems plaguing many of these elitist schools. But these problems are by no means unique to a select group of schools. Last Friday evening, Kwame Ture (formerly Stokeley Carmichael) spoke in Memorial Chapel as part of ALAS's commemoration of Black History Month. Stating that his lecture was emotional and conscience- raising would not be off base at all. And in fact stirring the consciences of those present on such a cold and dreary night also provided great opportunity for reflection on Ture's comments. Regardless of your political position on philosophies such as capitalism and socialism, and your perspectives on religion, Ture sparked emotion on an otherwise somber campus. The oftentimes dramatic means by which Ture expressed himself during his lecture do not have to constitute the means by which this campus confronts issues of multiculturalism. In fact, as evidenced by occurrences at \politically active\ campuses, these means might just as well be put aside. Each of us is aware of the importance in dealing with the issues of multiculturalism. This month in particular we are urged to hcttcr understand these issues, and are given a wealth of opportunity to do just that. If you haven't already done -.o, organize your calendar (not a revolution) and make a point nf attending some of these scheduled events -.pon<..,mcd hy memhcrs of AL/\S .. LETTERS ALAS Unknowingly Offensive To Zionists To the Editor: I am writing this letter to Concordiensis because I am troubled about what occurred on Friday, February 8. ALAS felt the need to be \educated\ and they felt the best way to do this was to bring in K warne Ture. I was not familiar with what K wame Ture stood for until a few days before the engagement. The question that I have is why did ALAS feel the need to bring in a speaker that could and did offend a large percentage of the school. The Jewish population has never reacted well to the ideas and methods of K warne Ture. This is evident in the protests that were staged in Albany last spring. People from ALAS did attend the lecture last year and must have been aware of the protest that was raised, but I was never approached as the co- president of the JSU to find out our feelings and objections. In fact, I was the one that had to question ALAS. Besides the obvious objections to Kwame Ture, there were a few incidents that do not set well with me. First, I was notified by Dean Williams that the original plan for publication of Friday night's speaker was to be announced on Thursday. This was to avoid conflict. ALAS must have known what Kame stood for and the reaction that he would receive. Next, I was informed that no one knew that K warne would be found to be offensive. How could this be? Letters to the Editor do not necessarilv reflect the opinions of the Editorial Board .. AILLETTERSTO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED AND SUBMI'ITED TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00 P.M. ON THE TUESDAY PRECEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LETfERSAND 1HOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILLNOTBE ACCEPTED. Tile student that introdt~ced him informed the audience of Kwamc's views on Zionism. The story that I heard all week was \I don't know what Zioaism is.\ Then take the time to become edt~cated. How do you bring a speaker OR campus who is avowed to be an anti-Zionist and not know what an anti-Zionist is. Kwame stated that no Jew could be a Zionist, then what am 1? Before this week I never would have classified myself as a \Zionist\ but rather a Jew that tmderstands the need for Israel. I realize that a majority of this article focuses on the Zionist issue presented by K warne Ture. I would like to emphasize that Kwame did not devote the entire portion of his engagement to ad vacating the anti-Zionist stance. I have advised anyone who was troubled to wri tc to Concordiensis and voice their opinion as a member of the Union Community. What else can emerge? First, dialogue between ALAS and the student body. This has begun. Tonight for over two hours the leaders of ALAS and the JSU met and discussed the reasons for Kwame Ture's appearance on campus. I am satisfied to say that ALAS did not intend any malicious actions and it is an unfortunate side effect. I have extended an offer to ALAS to co-sponsor an event with the JSU that would provide an educational outlet for any frustration tllat might have occurred. I will be waiting for their response. As a responsible leader I can only ask that fHture groups who bring speakers to Union wHl be more considerate to the feelings of the community and make more of an effort to commtmicatc before and after the event with the group in question. I would also like to commend the community for their mature response to what could have been an ugly situation. I would also like to point out that Professor Greenberg is attending a \Bagel Brunch\ at the Kosher kitchen located on the ground floor of West on Sunday, February 17 (look for flyers). His topic will be the term abroad to Israel, and I am sure we can convince him to tie in the Zionist issue and explain Zionism to anyone who would be curious, so please attend. Thank you, Seth Ellis '91 Co-president of JSU Three minutes a day is all we ask ... UNITED WAY EQitorg,.in~Chi~f News E(litors Jay Freetwn<k Associate News Bditor. Feature Editor Associate Feature Editor International Features Editors BliseFOOtty \\\'\\\\''\\ .. '\' ¥atti,~ni . . j,.;~~v.;= ···BncCZech Latae Tw:nidajewicz Seth Rosenberg Environmental Editor Ftanz Litz Associate Environmental Editor Amy Dillenbaelc Commentaries Editors Charles Belden.Jason Meshnick, David Burg Art'S Editor crutm,·as· };lageiditGts \ \'\'\\\'· PIU'blicati:ons Office; s·1 tt§ttt1¢1'nlttlria Box ·. · ··. ·. Sidney, New .·. · .· .. ·•·.· ·. ·· ·• .· .· .. ·. · ·.· · ·.· Subscription rate: $30 per y~ar, delivered anywhere in the United States. Mail S'ubscriptiolls to Concordiensis office, College Center, Union College. ConcO:rdiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (t:P). Office Telephone (518} 370* 6155, Advertising Telephone (5 I 8) 37Q:6494.

. ' CONCORDIENSJS, February 14, 1991 Page 13 Zionist Know What You're Getting To the Editor: It is unfortunate when two groups that have so much in common feel the need to alienate each other. When ALAS invited Kwame Ture to speak for them in honor of Black History Month it offended us as Jewish students of this campus. We therefore feel the need to clarify exactly what we think was offensive about this particular speaker. Tore calls himself an anti- Zionist. To clarify this statement let me define in simplistic terms what. Zionism is. Zionism is a nationalist political movement whose ultimate goal is a Jewish state in Palestine (now Israel). Therefore an anti-Zionist is a person whose ultimate goal is the destruction of such a Jewish state. It is easy to see from this simple picture why it is so repugtlant for a Jew to listen to an .anti~ Zionist speak. What, however, was ultimately more repug!lant was the fact that the Afro-1\mericans in the audience appliUlded when Tllfe anDounced his anti~Zionist orientation. It is disturbing that a people who. has suffered similar adversities to our pe<>ple fin<l it so difficult to understand om plight We can only hope that ALAS th.i11ks twice about bringing anan:ti..;Zionist to this campus again. The impression we got was that Ture was brought to the campus in promotion ()f Black History M()nth. If that was his purpose then he surely fai1led his S{)onsors. Respectfully yorirs, Ira Gurland '91 David Kohl '91 Jason Lavett '92 What Does ALAS Stand For? To the Union College Community: We must have misunderstood ALAS. We were under the impression that this organization promoted muhiculturalism, yet they presented a speaker, Kwame Tore, who preached anything but multiculturalism. Ture instead called for ethnocentrism amongst blacks, and for their suppression and domination of other cultures. Furthermore, we were surprised that a group who feels oppressed would support a man and a cause, A- APR, that cries out for the oppression of others, namely white Americans, Zionists, Israelis. As Jewish Americans, we were offended on more than one level. Ture vehemently attacked democracy, capitalism, Israel and J udeo-Christian traditional beliefs. It was irresponsible for ALAS to bring Mr. Ture to Union. Had the organization considered how their fellow students would react to Mr. Ture's radical and bigoted views, ALAS surely could have found another black leader who would have addressed the important issues in a less offensive manner. To clarify this sentiment let us analogize. For example, would it not be insensitive for another student organization to invite a member of the Apartheid government to speak on a topic, such as the world market fol' gold. Although, in this case the speaker's expertise is in the world gold market, many people W()uld obviously be offended by bis political views. It would be in both the organi~ation's and the co-mmunity's best interests to find a speaker who is less offensive. Yet ALAS maintains that they would, had they the means, invite Ture back to Uni()n. .ALAS is heavily subsidized by the student activity fund. Is it right for monies provided by all students to fund speaker who was S() offensive. Finally, so that those of you who are n()t familial' with Turc, here are a few of his VYords. \The best Zionist is a dead Zionist. There is no such thing as the Jewish people.\ 3-86 \We supp()rt the PLO.\ 2-8- 91 \Bloodshed is necessary! II 2- 8-91 \Racism is an institution of {American) society.\ 2-8-91 \I am enga~ed in smashing tb.e Democratic and Republican parties.\ 2~91 II America is hell.\ 2-91 11 Africa llas been protecting freedom fighters for centuries, from Jesus Christ to the PLO.\ 2-'91 \For me tllere is no middle ground, n() gray areas, only !)lack and white. I am e:xtreme.\ 2-91 Scott Halpert '91 Jordan Lippner '92 1'HE DJEP AJRTMENT OlF ClLASSKCS UNHON COILJLJEGIE. Presents DAVID SIDER FORDHAM UNNERSI1Y 11 SETTING THE SCENE\ Performance in Homer & Greek. Trag-edy Monday, February 18, 1~1 4:00p.m. Humanitie 117 The lecture will be followed by a reception in the Humanities Lounge LETTERS To Kwame Tore Kwamelure Union Offends The Religious To the Editor: Union College has once again succeeded in offending myself and the entire Jewish community. I accepted the administration's apology for beginning classes this past fall on the eve of Rosh Hashannah, one of the holiest days of the Jewish year. I considered their carelessness in this regard to be roughly equivalent to scheduling the first day of spring ter.m last year for the Monday following Easter Sunday, thereby forcing many Christians to travel to campus on one of their holy days. Union had simply developed a policy of offending all religions equally. This boundary was overstepped this past Friday when Kwame Ture, formerly known as Stokely Carmichael, spoke in honor of Black History Month. ALAS claims that while they knew Mr. Ture was anti-Zionist, they were unaware of the meaning of this term. I will leave it to others who share my concern and outrage to provide a thorough definition of Zionism. Suffice it to say that an anti-Zionist is anti-Israel and does not believe in the concept of a Jewish state. Such a person necessarily offends virtually every Jew throughout the world. Supposing for a moment that I were to accept ALAS's claims of ignorance. I cannot .accept their failure to research the' term \Zionist\ prior to inviting Mr. Tore to speak. I also cannot accept the administration's failure to question ALAS regarding their reasons for inviting Mr. Ture or to inform ALAS of his political views. A speaker of Mr. Tore's stature can easily cost as much as $30,000. It is rather obvious that this figure either constitutes a large portion of or exceeds ALAS's annual budget. Who provided the additional funding? I can only conclude that either the Dean of Students Office or the President's office financially supported Mr. Ture since these are the only funding sources on campus of which I am aware that would not necessarily take credit for their financial contributions. While I believe that any campus organization should be free to invite speakers regardless of their moral or political beliefs, I cannot extend my openmindedness to the administration. I believe that the administration at a small liberal arts college such as Union has a responsibility to carefully consider how it will allocate its f11nding, and I condemn the administration for providing the financial support to allow a speaker whose political views are offensi Ye to a large percentage of the campus. In addition. it came to my attention last week that the Albany State University Black Alliance (ASUBA) had posted university-approved fliers announcing Mr. Tore's scheduled engagement at Union and listing ASUBA besides ALAS as a c<>-sponsor. Did ALAS receive funding from ASUBA to cover the expenses of Mr. Tore's speech? If so, why was tltis fact not publicized at Union? If not, how was this organization able to take credit for being a co- sponsor? I was unaware that Union College organizations habitually invited outside groups to co-sponsor speakers. Finally, I found the scheduling and publicity for this event to be poorly handled. By scheduling the speech at the same time as one of the biggest nights of sorority rush, a significant portion of the female population at Union was obviously unable to attend. The January 31 issue of Concordiensis included an article describing all of the speakers and events for Black History month with the notable exception of Mr. Ture. K warne Ture was listed in the printed schedule that was run alongside the article, but neither his former name nor the topic of his speech were ever publicized until several days before his speaking engagement. As a result of this failure it was Literally impossible for the Jewish community at Union to do anything but react to Mr. Tore's speaking engagement. The misinformation which had been distributed prior to February 8 could not be addressed soon enough in advance to result in any policy changes. I believe the administration, as well as ALAS, owes the Jewish community an apology for their shortsightedness and I would hope that such an offense is not repeated in the future. Sincerely, Tracey Pryluck '91 Issues Of Unrest To the Editor: 'This past Friday evening, Kwame Ture gave a presentation in the Memorial Chapel. He generated a lot of lively discussion and all are to be commended for their rational behavior during the question/ answer period which followed. There were many challenges to verify the history which he presented and we hope that at the Multicultural Table this afternoon there will be some who can present what they have found. In addition there were other topics which Kwame Ture presented which are ideal for rational and open presentation of feelings based on one's culture. The Multicultural Table was initiated with the hope that cultural sensitivities would be made known and that each of us would try to better understand the other's position. We hope that many of you will visit the table and try to understand these sensitivities. Because of the Minerva lecture bef()rehand, the discussions might not start until closer to 1 PM Next Thursday. Prof. Quaye will discuss his native land. Sincerely, John R .. Sowa Professor of Chemistry

CONCORDIENSIS, February J..l, 1991 LETTERS Zionist Response To Kwame Tore Kno\v What You're Getting To the Editor: It is unfortunate when two groups that have so much in common feel the need to alienate each other. When ALAS invited Kwame Tore to speak for them in honor of Black History Month it offended us as Jewish students of this campas. We therefore feel the need to clarify exactly what we think was offensive about this particular speaker. Tore calls himself an anti- Zionist. To clarify this statement let me define in simplistic terms what Zionism is. Zionism is a nationalist political movement whose ultimate goal is a Jewish state in Palestine (now Israel). Therefore an anti-Zionist is a person whose ultimate goal is the destruction of such a Jewish state. It is easy to see from this simple picture why it is so repugnant for a Jew to listen to an anti-Zionist speak. What, however, was ultimately more re:pugnant was the fact that the Afro-Americans in the audience applauded when Ture announced his anti-Zionist orientation. It is disturbing that a people who has suffered similar adversities to our people find it so difficult to understand our plight. We can only hope that ALAS thinks twice about bringing an anti-Zionist to this campus again. The impression we got was that Ture was brought to the campus in promotion of Black History Mon~h. If that was his purpose then he surely failed his sponsors. Respectfully yours, Ira Gurland '91 David Kohl'91 Jason Lavett '92 What Does ALAS Stand For? To the Union College Community: We must have misunderstood ALAS. We were under the impression that this organization promoted multiculturalism, yet they presented a speaker, Kwame Ture, who preached anything but multiculturalism. Ture instead called for ethnocentrism amongst blacks, and for their suppression and domination of other cultures. Furthermore, we were surprised that a group who feels oppressed would support a man and a cause, A- APR. that cries out for the oppression of others, namely white Americans, Zionists, Israelis. As Jewish Americans, we were offended on more than one level. Ture vehemently attacked democracy, capitalism, Israel and J udco-Christian traditional beliefs. It was irresponsible for ALAS to bring Mr. Turc to Union. Had the organization considered how their fellow students would react to Mr. Ture's radical and bigoted views, ALAS surely could have found another black leader who would have addressed the important issues in a less offensive manner. To clarify this sentiment let us analogize. For example, would it not be insensitive for another student organization to invite a member of the Apartheid government to speak on a topic, such as the world market for gold. Although, in this case the speaker's expenise is in the world gold market, many people would obviously be offended by his political views. It would be in both the organb:ation's and the community's best interests to find a speaker who is less offensive. Yet ALAS maintains that they would, had they the means, invite Ture back to Union. ALAS is heavily subsidized by the student activity fund. Is it right for monies provided by all students to fund speaker who was so offensive. Finally, so that those of you who arc not familiar with Ture, here arc a few of his words. \The best Zionist is a dead Zionist. There is no such thing as the Jewish people.\ 3-R6 \We support the PLO.\ :2-H- 91 \Bloodshed is ncrcssary!\ 2- 8-91 \Racism is an institution of (American) society.\ 2-R-91 \I am engaged in smashing the Democratic and Republican parties.\ 2-91 \America is hell.\ 2-91 \Africa has been protecting freedom fighters for centuries, from Jesus Christ to the PLO.\ 2-91 \For me there is no middle ground, no gray areas, only black and white. I am extreme.\ 2-91 Scott Halpert '91 Jordan Lippner '92 THE DlEP ARTMJEN1' OJFI CLA§§liC§ 1IJNIION CC(Q)ILTI..IE<GIE Presents DAVID SIDER FORDHAM UNIVERSITY ~~sETTING THE SCENE\ Performance in Homer & Greek Tragedy Monday, February 18, 1991 4:00p.m. Humanities 117 The lecture will be followed by a reception in the Humanities Lounge --------------------------~-------------------- Kwame Ture Union Offends The Religious To the Editor: Union College has once again succeeded in offending myself and the entire Jewish community. I accepted the administration's apology for beginning classes this past fall on the eve of Rosh Hashannah, one of the holiest days of the Jewish year. I considered their carelessness in this regard to be roughly equivalent to scheduling the first day of spring term last year for the Monday following Easter Sunday, thereby forcing many Christians to travel to campus on one of their holy days. Union had simply developed a policy of offending all religions equally. This boundary was overstepped this past Friday when Kwame Ture, formerly known as Stokely Carmichael, spoke in honor of Black History Month. ALAS claims that while they knew Mr. Ture was anti-Zionist, they were unaware of the meaning of this term. I will leave it to others who share my concern and outrage to provide a thorough definition of Zionism. Suffice it to say that an anti-Zionist is anti-Israel and does not believe in the concept of a Jewish state. Such a person necessarily offends virtually every Jew throughout the world. Supposing for a moment that I were to accept ALAS's claims of ignorance. I cannot accept their failure to research the· term \Zionist\ prior to inviting Mr. Ture to speak. I also cannot accept the administration's failure to question ALAS regarding their reasons for inviting Mr. Ture or to inform ALAS of his political views. A speaker of Mr. Ture's stature can easily cost as much as $30,000. It is rather obvious that this figure either constitutes a large portion of or exceeds ALAS's annual budget. Who provided the additional funding? I can only conclude that either the Dean of Students Office or the President's office financially supported Mr. Ture since these are the only funding sources on campus of which I am aware that would not necessarily take credit for their financial contributions. While I believe that any campus organization should be free to invite speakers regardless of their moral or political beliefs, I cannot extend my openmindedness to the administration. I believe that the administration at a small liberal arts college such as Union has a responsibility to carefully consider how it will allocate its funding, and I condemn the administration for providing the financial support to allow a speaker whose political views are offensive to a large percentage of the campus. In addition, it came to my attention last week that the Albany State University Black Alliance (ASUBA) had posted university-approved fliers announcing Mr. Ture's scheduled engagement at Union and listing ASUBA besides ALAS as a co-sponsor. Did ALAS receive funding from ASUBA to cover the expenses of Mr. Ture's speech? If so, why was this fact not publicized at Union? If not. how was this organization ante to take credit for being a co- sponsor? I was unaware that Union College organizations habitually invited outside groups to co-sponsor speakers. Finally, I found the scheduling and publicity for this event to be poorly handled. By scheduling the speech at the same time as one of the biggest nights of sorority rush, a significant portion of the female population at Union was obviously unable to attend. The January 31 issue of Concordiensis included an article describing all of the speakers and events for Black History month with the notable exception of Mr. Ture. Kwame Tore was listed in the printed schedule that was run alongside the article, but neither his former name nor the topic of his speech were ever publicized until several days before his speaking engagement. As a result of this failure it was literally impossible for the Jewish community at Union to do anything but react to Mr. Ture's speaking engagement. The misinformation which had been distributed prior to February 8 could not be addressed soon enough in advance to result in any policy changes. I believe the administration, as well as ALAS, owes the Jewish community an apology for their shortsightedness and I would hope that such an offense is not repeated in the future. Sincerely, Tracey Pry luck '91 Issues Of Unrest To the Editor: This past Friday evening, Kwame Turc gave a presentation in the Memorial Chapel. He generated a lot of lively discussion and all are to be commended for their rational behavior during the question/ answer period which followed. There were many challenges to verify the history which he presented and we hope that at the Multicultural Table this afternoon there will he some who can present what they have found. In addition there were other topics which Kwame Ture presented which arc ideal for rational and open presentation of feelings based on one's culture. The Multicultural Table was initiated with the hope that cultural sensitivities would be made known and that each of us would try to better understand the other's position. We hope that many of you will visit the table and try to understand these sensitivities. Because of the Minerva lecture beforehand, the discussions might not start until closer to 1 PM Next Thursday, Prof. Quaye will discuss his native land. Sincerely, John R .. Sowa Professor of Chemistry LAST DAY m WITI-IDRAW FROM COURSES FRIDAY 2/15

. Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, February 14, 1991 LETTERS Break Separatism: Encourage Unity Continued from page 1 Each then builds in a critical and unstated assumption: that the differences b e t ween groups are greater than the differences within each group. That blacks are fund a· menta II y different from whites; that men ar.e funda- mentally different from women, and so forth. The conclusion isn't far behind. Your actions/thoughts/abili- ties/whatever are determined by the group of which you happen to be a member. What's wrong with this argument? On the surface, not too much. In fact, as students in my methods course learn, determinism is a critical 'Race' isn't what it appears to be, and neither, to the consternation of many, is 'sex.' analytic tool in the social sciences-- especially in quantitative analysis. Using techniques like multivariate linear regression, social scientists predict attitudes and actions on the basis of variables like race, class, education, gender, occupational prestige, and so forth. But-- and this is an important caveat-- social scientists tend to treat race and sex as different kinds of categories from, say, income and education. This is because 'race' isn't what it appears to be, and neither, to the consternation of many, is 'sex'. For social science, each of these variables is a construct, a nexus of sociocultural, structural, traditional, and (incidentally) biological differences. In fact, for purposes of most social scientific analyses, biology translates not into attitudinal or behavioral differences, but into the symbolic precursors of differential structural opportunity. You have black skin? I'm sorry, this job isn't open to you. You have a penis? Sorry, you can't take home economics, welcome to meta:J sho.p. And so on. Biology, refracted through society, becomes destiny. That skin color and genital structure act as keys to opportunity has little to do with reality, and much to do with traditional understaiJdings rooted in xenophobia. Stephen Jay Gould of Harvard., the paleontologist responsible for the theory of punctuated equlibriurn, has argued against this k,ind of crude sociobio'logy. In T h e Mismeasure of Man, Gould debunks a long history of attempts to link intelligence to physical attributes like sex and skin C())or. He has repeated this argument in numerous articles, pointing out that while there may be biological differences between groups, the human brain is powerful enough, and humans are adaptable enough, to make those differences insignificant Which brings us back to the problem with determinism. Even social scientists, who use many criteria simultaneously, realize that their behavioral predictions are necessarily weak and probabilistic-- in fact, even with multivariate regression, it is rare for researchers to be able to pin down more than half of the variation they wish to explain. This weakness is the first problem with determinism: that it is inadequate to the task that is asked of it. But there is a second, and even more compelling, criticism of detenninism. People are individuals, not groups. I am white, born of parents from Canada. I am a parent. I am a social Religious Hatred Incites Dismay To the Editors: As Roman Catholics, we wish to express our dismay, along with the Jewish community, at the invitation of Kwame Ture to the Union campus. While we do not dispute anyone's right to speak at Union, and we encourage diverse speakers, the college community ought to consider certain standards in the choice of lecturers. This college should not solicit speakers who insult, without rational basis, deeply held religious beliefs. We experienced similar outrage with the selection of Helen Caldicott as a speaker for the National Conference of Undergradute Research (NCUR), which Union ignobly hosted in May 1990. Caldicott's assertion that the Catholic and Islamic faiths are the source of many of the world's problems was positively insu Iting. Catholicism was labelled \inappropriate\ and Moslems were compared to breeding rabbits. For her to receive a standing ovation from the participants in the conference and for three Union faculty members to come to her defense (one calling her \electrifying\) was equally frightening. It is a painful experience to observe one's rcligio!ls beliefs trodden upon in an offensive way and to watch others respond with great enthusiasm. It is unfortunate . that the Jewish members of Union's community were similarly insulted by Mr. Ture's invitation to lecture. The spirit of free inquiry and an intellectual exchange of ideas must be preserved at all cost. However, we do not see the imperative need for lecturers who stimulate nothing more than hatred and prejudice. Mindful of religious hatred in the past, we ought to work for a climate of tolerance for all faiths. Respectfully, Thomas Fallati '92 Christopher Kelly '92 Daniel J. Keniry '91 scientist and a computer enthusiast. I support certain causes, read certain journals. And I am none of these things, or rather. aH of them and more besides. What I am arguing is that I ha:ve (or think that I have) a fair modicum of free will. I can choose to do what my history pushes me toward, or I can refuse, fight that history and modify my trajectory, as an individual. I cannot change the conditions of my birth, but I can take responsibility for trying to change the world into something more like what I would like it to be. I can belong to many groups-- and at the same time, be a member of none of them. No single membership defines me, tells people exactly what to expect. Tore's talk bothered me because of his insistance that, in the final analysis, what matters most is the color of one's skin. Unger's article because it echoed (in a weak fashion, to be sure) the labeling of individuals according to one or two group memberships that has historically been used to justify segregation and its evils. I agree with Unger about the overly zealous use of PC- speak, and its effect on controversy. I disagree with his hidden assumption-- that group attributes are more important than individual attributes in our day-to-day dealings with others. Take Unger's opening argument. To show that black sprinters triumph through biology would require evidence that the winning blacks a s individuals have biological advantages over the losing whites (also as individuals). Moreover, to make the argument work, Unger should also be prepared to show that most or all sprint winners have superior sprinting biology when compared·to most or all sprint losers. But he cannot do this by claiming that all blacks have superior sprint biology on average. To do that is to .engage in deterministic reasoning. The same determinism poisons, for me, Ture.s righteous critique of American society. That the critique is in many respects accurate is beyond question; and in speaking for cultural pride, in speaking against racism, Ture empowers us, prepares us ·to struggle against injustice. In arguing tht blacks have been enslaved and exploited by white Americans, and then expected to carry much more than their share of the military burden, he Ture's talk bothered me because of his insistence that what matters most is the color of one's skin. makes a powerful allegation. But in suggesting that all black men and women must share a single trajectory, a single ideology, Ture does himself, and all of us, a disservice. He transforms national origin into individual destiny-- and empowers a nation at the cost of disempowering the individuals who make up that nation. Quoting Jesus of Nazareth, Ture reminds us that, without the shedding of blood, there is no remission of sins. But whose blood was shed, for example, in the civil rights movement? Civil rights workers were white as well as black, people who sometimes broke with their backgrounds and their cultures because they saw in segregation not a threat to an alien group but a threat to their very humanity. Whites shed their blood just as surely as blacks shed theirs. Some of them were buried in the .same hidden graves. These women and men acted against their own interests, and the interests of their classes and cultures. Sometimes they were motivated by friendship, sometimes by love, but most often, I think, by a sense of injustice. They saw, as we must see, that if there is injustice anywhere, it is a threat to each and every one of us. Injustice toward any group is injustice toward all individuals. And there is plenty of injustice to go around. Each of us has, I think, the obligation to fight injustice throughout our lives. Often that injustice is within us-- and we must seek to change ourselves. Often it is structural, historical in nature, and we must fight it with everything we have-- even, as Kwame Ture argues, with our own blood. But we must not fight out of a sense of guilt or even merely of rage; we must fight because we have a vision of the possible, an ideal to contrast against a sometimes ugly social reality. Martin Luther King, Jr. had such a vision. He did not, of course, live to see it fulfilled. None of us is likely to live to see it either, but if we do not fight for it every day of our lives, if we do not believe that our children or our friends' children will see the realization of that vision, then we shall surely fail. I can't speak for anyone else, but I live for the day when words like black, white, gay, disabled, will be only descriptive terms, rather than determinative statements about what we should expect from other human beings. Andrew Marchant-Shapiro is Instructor of Political Science and Sociology. The Entertainer Leading The Blind To the Editor: I don't recall ever feeling more disappointed in mankind as a whole as I did when halfbf the audience stood to proclaim their oppression by American government, by society - by me? The line couldn't have been more clear; there it stood, about four feet high an image that will remain in my head for some time to come. A row of ashen white faces, looking up at fading smiles at the dark statues who had risen above them, the latter bunch looking with buming eyes at some fool who had dared to question. I guess what shook me most, what made my heart burn hotter than it has ever burnt in my forty-five weeks at Union, was the man who stood before the audience laughing. Kwame Ture was laughing! (\Don't try to tell me you know my people better than I.\) He laughed. Forgive me, I don't see the joke. Is it funny that those who rose felt the way they did? Maybe that's not the real issue - maybe, it was more the laughter at the few who dared to stand in defense of their own opinions that caused iny despair. For in their laughter, aren't these people who laugh doing an injustice to those who would speak their mind; and in the context of Mr. Ture's monologues, shouldn't these people avenge these injustices through violence? Thus, although democracy may be a joke, the lack of democracy, much like capitalism, will also EARTH DAY • EVERY DAY NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION lead to war. And while many of those who read this may not agree with what I am saying, if they can in fact decipher what I am trying to say, I would bet that they would if I was standing in front of them talking with loud voice and two hundred words per minute, inserting occasionally a disdainful laugh or comment at some authority they felt they were being oppressed by. Don't blindly follow anything or anyone. You don't make circles by drawing straight lines. You don't create understanding between races by dividing them. And you don't see eye to eye when your heads are at different levels. Peace, not violence - there's enough already Jordan Dmitri Matsudaira '93 1400 16th Street NW, \/litlshi n, DC 20036·2266

CONCORDIENSIS~ February 14, 1991 Page 15 Oppress If You Must But Don't Insult To the Editor: I do not mind if the administration of this college runs roughshod over the wishes of the .student. This is not because being rampled underfoot is consistent with my principles. Rather, it is because such treatment is what I have come to recognize as an unfortunate reflection of the inherent nature and limitations of the people who are allowed to run this college-- witness last year's schedule change for just one of many examples. Where I have to draw the line, however, is when the guy driving the car over my chest pauses to add insult to injury by thoroughly insulting my intelligence. I am specifically referring to the ludicrously offensive Residence Life Survey which we have recently been asked to fill out. \Greeks enjoy more privileges than do independents-- agree or disagree.\ Does anyone detect just a bit of bias? \It doesn't matter to me if Greeks have more privileges than do independents-- agree or disagree?\ Seriously. why are they even bothering to ask us at all. The nature of these inane questions should clearly demonstrate that their narrow minds are already made up-- no need to confuse them with the facts. By the time I got to \In your opinion, what most needs to be done to improve campus housing\ I half expected to be able to read, \Kick the fraternities out of the dorms, make all housing coed.\ if I held a match under the paper or tilted it just right in the light. Students, I challenge you to please at least cough a little when they stick something this obnoxious down your throat, regardless of how you feel about fraternities or coed housing. This is not just about diversity. This is not even about the administration; I suppose that we should expect them to behave like this. This is about the right of students to some degree of genuine self- determination and respect and about the degree to which the administration is going to pathetically pander to the misguided whims of the Middle States Accreditation Committee. Most any reasonable person can agree that diversity is a worthy goal, but this dangerous concept of \enforcing\ diversity seems at best self-defeating (throwing the baby out with the bath water, perhaps?) At worst, this kind of mindless destruction of an existing system smacks of the errant stupidity of nihilism and represents a tyrannical encroachment upon the right of students to choose their living environment. To this, we must not willingly submit. I think that if the Administration wishes to ignore student preference and ram a coed housing policy down the throats of students, then it should at least do us the courtesy of respecting our intelligence and seeking to cull its yes-men from a significantly less intelligent, perceptive, and rational collection of individuals-- mjght I suggest the authors of the Middle States Report. Marc Kuritz '92 Uni?;lo College ,....... r Career I ~ Development ~-·~-:.--~-~ Center SENIORS!!! Are you having a tough time identifying potential employers, discovering the hidden job market, and keeping motivated during your job search? D9 you wish you had some new ideas about career options, job opportunities, and how to get hired? RELAX! The CDC is offeringaJOB SEEKERS' CLUB for students who find themselves in this situation. Join us for this four-session program ·designed to assist seniors in the tasks at hand (namely, those mentioned above!). The Job Seek- ers' Club will meet on the following Thursday afternoons at 3:30pm: February 14, 21,28 and March 7 in the CDC. Please sign up in the CDC. ~~ 0 u--;p 0 ***PLEASE NOTE TIME CHANGE*** STARTS T·ODAY!!! LETTERS Belief Draws Boundaries: \A.In I Your Enemy?\ To the Editor: Kwame Ture's talk on Fri<lay has raised a ht ()f issues and questions that I feel need to be addressed. I a{}preciated the opportunity to hear and experience what K warne Ture had to say. However, I was disappointed in the audience's reaction and what seemed to be A.L.A.S.'s uiJconditional support for his views. In coming to Union College, as students, we are here to be educated (not to state the obvious). Part of our education is to learn abo·ut the world around us and the issues facing our society leader~. Ia taking up this pursuit of higher eucation it is our cbligation to question what .,.;e are taught. To tak(( everything presented to us as fact, withfjut questioning, is to become a follower and not a leader. We are here to explore ourselves, our ideas, · our beliefs, and share them with one another. With the presentation of K warne Ture, as part of the Black History educational series, to Union College, it seemed to me tllat A.L.A.S. lost part of its (lerspective as students. As far as my understanding is., K warne Ture was and is a v~ry important Black Rights activist. Having never heard of him before I was looking forward to hearing about him, his past, and what his movement was about yesterday and what it's about today... a time tc learn. Those who went to Kwame Ture's talk know that little of this was discussed. I assume that A.L.A.S. understood the man they were bringing to Union College. I surmise that A.L.A.S. also agreed with Kwame Ture's views completely, sltown through lheir response to llis talk and in the way they introduced him. I feel this complete support of K wame Ture was and is irresponsible ()ll A.L.A.S.'s part. A.L.A.S. never seemed to question K wame Ture's beliefs and methods. K warne Tare, among the many posithe things be covered that night, like the need for social .awareness, for students to find out who they are, what our llistory is. for people to take t>art in the civil right movements (although I disagreed witlt the kind of methods he seemed to be preaching), and so forth, also he unfortunately advocated anti- zionism, support for the P.L.O. in their movement against Israel, anti-capitalism, anti-Americanism, and so on. I disagreed with the way he presented his beliefs. He abused and twisted historical facts to support his views, presenting them falsely. He used improper logic in many of his deductions. KwaiJle Ture, it seems to me, was taken at face value by some of the audience and by A.L.A.S., which I feel was a grave mistake on their part, forgetting that they have responsibilities as students. I was among those who tried to voice their opinion at the end of the talk. I had a hard time with some of the labels Kwamc Ture was advocating about zionism and Judaism. I approached him with two comments, the first of which was slightly irrelevant. In my second comment I asked Kwame Ture, \Am I your enemy?\ as he seemed to make out all zionists and capitalists as evil! His reply was, \If you're a Zionist, you are.\ I deferred that response and said I was a capitalist and believed in America. He promptly labeled me his enemy and started a shouting match with me, which I walked away from, seeing no point in continuing, as he was not letting me speak. I find his labeling of me as his enemy uncalled for and inappropriate 011 several grounds. One: I thought one of the ideas in the Black Movement and of Civil Rights movements in general was to stop the labeling of people as ways of discnninating against them, in making them enemies. Two: I thought freedom of belief and the respect of that freedom was respected by the Black Rights Movement. I did not ask him to agree with my views. just to respect my rights to those views. And lastly, three: He does not know who I am, what I am about, he has never spoken to me on the majority of my views, and neither does he know what stance I take 'vith capitalism. Ccntrary to K.wame Tore's belief that everything is black and white. it's not! To be someone's enemy is not the same as disagreeing in vie,vpoints. An enemy is someone \that feels · malice or hostility towards another.\ I do not hate or feel such malice, I disagree wtih Kwame Ture. I admit my question was a loaded one but I made my point. He made a snap judgment on me without the complete facts. He took one very small piece of informatoa I presented to him about myself and he twisted it to his purpose, to support his claim. like he did with so many other historical facts he presented that night as evidence. I feel that to rally behind Kwame Ture unconditionally was ludicr<Jus. Not to support K warne Ture as a leader is not the same as not supporting the beliefs or ideas he presents. Supporting his arguments with false logic and twisted facts made his credibility as a leader questionable. I do not believe that we in society should or do give our our support to people who cannot support their beliefs rationally and properly, so why should we look at Kwame Tw:e any diffcrcnuy? If a person cannot support their beliefs with Lruthful facts and propositions, how can they say they know or understand truly what they arc talking about. In reflecting upon what Kwamc Ture said, remember, as K warne Ture said, to paraphrase, check those facts you believe in and make sure they're being used properly. (K warne Turc was not even following his own advice!) All in all I felt it was a very enlightening experience. I hope everyone who agreed with all that K warne Ture said will take the time to research the facts, as K warne Ture said, \ ... look it up ... \ especially on the anti- zionist views he presented. It is not true, to quote K warne, \ ... that to be Black you had to be an anti-zionist...\ \that one could not be Jewish and a zionjst ... \ These are among some of the false statements presented by K warne Ture that have to lle explored by everyone. One last note. I thank K warne Tlue for coming. His speech inspired me to become active in my beliefs. I definitely !tad something to learn from him. As Kwame Tore said, \ •.• it's one thing to know the truth, it's another to live by it!\ Thank you, Kwame, I shall always remember that statement and try to live by it. Sincerely, Marc Jaffrey '91 A Call For Papers! for the Union College Undergradute Review of Humanities ·and Social Studies The Union College Undergraduate Review, a forum for undergraduate writing in the Humanities and Social Sciences, would like to provide you with the opportunity to publish y()ur papers and actively encourages yur submissions. Any Humanities or Social Sciences paper written by an undergraduate (including f(}r.eign exchange students) will be considered. Submissions should be sent to: Box259 .Union College Schenectady, NY 12308 The deadline is March 4, 1991. Take advantage of this opportunity to achieve recogniti()n for your work!

\Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS, February 14, 1991 LETTERS Union Philosophers Support Anarchist To the Editor: In this time of great turmoil, we, the chairs of the philosophy forum, feel a desire to gai,n all the knowledge availahlc to us on the workings of our world. The society in which we live is a complex struggle between people and government. Knowing this the Philosophy Forum has asked David Wieck to come and talk to our community. David Wieck is a philosopher who was previously head of the philosophy department at R.P.I. He comes from a background of staunch pacifist anarchy. Anarchy is a topic which very few of us seem to have a grasp on. At first glance people see anarchy as a state of total chaos. This docs not seem to be the perspective most anarchists hold true. People often prescribe to the view that government is a necessary truth. What are the implications of an anarchical society? Is the government man's misguided need for God? Do we need an omnipresent, omnipowcrful force to guide the ethical decisions man is perpetually confronted with? David Wieck will be coming to the College Center on February 18 to discuss his views on anarchy and pacifism. For more information contact Dan Milsky or Chuck Belden at 370-6884 and 346-5589 respecti vcly. Dan Milsky '92 Chuck Belden '91 Co-Presidents Philosophy Forum Old Glory To the Editor: Since January 16, 1991, the United States and the Allied Coalition forces have been at war with Iraq. Union College, however, has been in denial. Yes, denial or perhaps in a state of b-lindness. Symbolically speaking, this trend is displayed by our flag riding at full mast nearly every day since D-Day. At any other conscious town, city, or university the flag has been at half mast from the onslaught of the war to remind the nation that our troops are dying in the desert to protect the world from the forces of tyranny. At Union, however, this has not been the case. When one looks at the flag on campus it is entirely feasible that one would not think that we have been at war for almost one month. The inconsistency with the Stars and Stripes at Union is a serious problem. In a time of national turmoil, particularly warfare, it is customary that the flag be placed at half mast. The reason for this is simple: to remind United States citizens that men and women arc losing their lives to protect our country. Our flag is a powerful symbol of our commitments and to ignore the customary half-mast rule during warfare is a serious breach of etiquette. Many students and citizens must be confused by Union College's unwillingness to symbolically commit ourselves to supporting our men in the Gulf. For the first two weeks of the conflict Union College's United States flag rode at full mast, then was lowered for two days, then flew again at fuU mast, then correctly flew at half mat. Where is our commitment? As a school, and as a nation, we must support our troops regardless of our individual feelings regarding the war. The first step is to lower our flag to provide a visual reminder that our nation and other U.N. nations are being tested by the fires of war. Old Glory will ride against full mast, but now during our time of conflict it must be flown at half mast. James Rawstron '93 Concerned Awareness of Equity in Sports To the Editor: I would like to correct an inaccLUacy in Stephanie Fray's article, \Gender Bias in Sports Under Fire.\ Ms. Fray indicated, in her otherwise very thorough article, that I was not concerned about Title IX violations at Union. Such violations involve acts that discriminate against women in athletics. In fact, I stated that I am extremely interested in eliminating Title IX violations. Any student wishing to document discrimination against women in sports at Union is invited to come and talk with me, and should also take such information to the Director of Athletics. I look forward to increased awareness about the need for equity in men's and women's sports at Union. Sincerely, Martha Higgins, Chair, Dept. Sociology and Anthropology EARTH DAY • EVERY DAY NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION 1400 16th Street NW, washington, DC 20036·2266 • Greeks To Go Co-Ed To the Union College Community: Last semester t11e issue of residence life at Union was examined, specifically to tum a majority of the housing to coed living quarters. We feel that this recommendation breaks a Union College tradition, takes away student freedom of choice, and has the potential of causing social related problems. It has been brought to our attention that two dorms will remain single-sex housing, one male and one female. What is left now is the question of what will be done with the remaining college owned housing. Currently there is a survey circulating pertaining to residence life, put out by a committee formed on residence life. The \We Care About U\ Committee previously devised a survey and approached the residence life committee with it. At that point, we were given the impression that tjhe two groups would work together on this problem and construct a single ·questionnaire. The survey distributed to the college community completely disregarded the input requested from the \We Care About U\ Committee. In assessing the survey it is clear to us that the Residence Life Committee is trying to plot independents against Greeks, rather than impartially addressing the housing dilemma. It is a fact that enrollment at Union is currently decreasing. One attraction to prospective freshmen is the aspect that Union is a small school wllere the majority of social activities take place within the gates of the campus. In changing the Gr~ek housing to coed this feature will be gone. By moving the majority of Greek houses off campus the social life at Union will be moved outside the college perimeter, causing drinking and driving .to be a larger concern. A greater worry is the reality that Union students will be disturbing ·neighboring residents, as well as a higher risk to students walking outside the campus at night. We hope that we have raised your consciousness on this potential problem and encourage the college community to take a stand and to protect its interests! Wendy Abramson '91 Becky Barg '91 , Members of \We Care About U\./ Concordiensis Lacking Critical Discussion On War To the Editors: I am dismayed at the narrow range of views represented by your articles on the Gulf War last week (January 31, 1991). Does the absence from this paper of a truly critical perspective on the crisis represent the general outlook of Union students? I hope not. Even Adam Fischer's article, which attempts a balanced presentation of the three \factions\ (as he sees them), unfortunately misreiJresents the views of some of the war's most informed critics. Fischer's distinction betwooE an \anti- war\ faction, and a \pro-troop\ faction is simply nonsense. As an uncomprmising opponent to the war who has particpated in local and national anti-war activities and oganizing, I can assure you that virtually all of the anti-war activists support the troops. We want them back home, at their jobs and with their families. Nor are anti-war activists naive, as Fischer claims. certainly not as naive as many of the supposedly \patriotic\ Americans who are willing to send men and women to fight and die for poorly defmed geo- political objectives, Listen to the anti-war arguments. Bush began this war at a time when virtually the entire world diplomatic community (including some of the most conserv~t:ve alumni of our own State Department) counselled using boycotts and negotiation. And Fischer is s!mply wrong-- sanctions work. Ask the Nicaraguans or ihe South Africans. As of Jan. 15, Iraq had experienced a drop of 48% in their GNP as a result of the embargo! This was an unprecendented level of effectiveness, leading three former heads of the Joint Chiefs of Staff to advise the continuation of sanctions for at least a year and a half. Now that the war has started, peace is still a realistic option-- a cease-frre and negotiations are not only possible but may be the best choice available. Instead of sloganeering, your writers might consider asking the more difficult questions: What are the objectives in this war? Do you really think that Bush and his advisors care about democracy in the Middle East, where we are cun:ently trying to depose a dictator whom we earlier aided (Hussein), by forging alliances with other dictators whom we earlier condemned as \terrorists\ (Syria's Hafez El Assad): This makes no sense. You should be asking what does. And how do we define winning in this war? Every day that it continues is a victory for Hussein, whose influence grows in Egypt and Morocco in proportion to the length of his resistance to the invading \American devil\. What will the whooping and the cheering, the Super Bowl patriotism, sound like when the world has to pick up the political pieces after the deadly ballgame? If you think that Israel is better protected by a stabilization of the region, think again. What will happen to Israelif Arab moderates, such as Egypt's Hosni Mubarek are overthrown? The possjbility of a peaceful resolution of Middle Eastern rivalries may soon be lost forever. Ask what the costs of this war will be, in terms of lives lost, towns and villages destroyed, domestic social services neglected, etc. How much of America's and the world's human resources are you willing to spend for George Bush's poorly conceived strategic objectives? Ask that question when you , see the damage aerial bombardment and desert warfare can inflict on soldiers and civilians alike. Just remember that wars raise more difficult questions than the simple-minded \who supports us and who doesn't.\ We live in a democracy that not only allows free discussion and dissent, but also depends on it. Critical inquiry permits American citizens to make reasoned political judgments. We at Union should be. pursuing critical discussion, rather than sloganeering and cheerleading. Andrew Peffer Assistant Professor History Department Important Announcement! ! ! To the Union College Community: Wordiness, where is it appropriate? This week, any readers of these pages will undoubtedly notice the extreme length of some letters. While the message conveyed in these ,.compositions\ may be important, their length is inappropriate. Beginning next week. February 21, any letters over 500 words will be burned, or at least shortened by the letter's author. The reason for this is not the editor's laziness but that a letter too long tends to lose the reader's interest. This helps nobody. Please continue ·to write. Your letters have been the forum for change at union and they are all appreciated. Thank you. Jason Meshnick '91 Charles Belden '91 David Burg '92 Commentaries Editors

CONCORDJENSIS, February 14, 1991 Page 17 ARTS &. ENTERTAINMENT Better Than Bran ... The WRUC Record Reviews By RON EUGENIO E.P.M.D.-Bosiness As Usual (Def Jam) There has to be a whole new type of toughness to accommodate E.P.M.D. Even though it includes factors that confine a cutting · edge rap album in the '90s, the rhymes .set by Erick Sermon and Parrish Smith bob and weave and drop words like manslaughter, sucka M.C.'s. and rampage from a jungle largely ignored by a jaded nation. Tough. Swaggering Tough. E.P.M.D. never quite escape the rap stereotype. though. There's rampant homophobia (\Jane 3\ \Hardcore\), a diatribe detailing one's superiority over otller worthy contenders (\Rap Is Out of Ce>ntrol\) and a cover displaying attitude (drawn with the mind-blown cool of comic's Bi:ll Sienkiewitz), but I'd give my eye/teeth to see these boys perform \Give The People\ a relentless attack on today's top ten, with a few nods to Public Enemy. With such an impassioned snub, integrity over a Taco Bell commercial, who the hell needs airplay? They know if they put out the album, those in the know will know. B usiuess As Usual (E.P.M.D.'s last two albums were called S t r i c t 1 y Business and \Un.fi:n\sbed Business isn't from Men at Work, and this kind of smart HOROSCOPES By ZOLA and CUPID CAPRICORN: Don't fret if your Valentine's Day is less than wonderful. Cupid may be a little off schedule this year. but he'll find his way to you before tOO long. Lucky Day: Thursday. AQUARIUS: This past week has been almost too much for you in tenns of work load. Take a rest this weekend, and spend some time doing yoar own thing. Lucky Day: Thursday. PISCES: You have set something straight at last, and you are feeling relieved. But don't .stop there ... this is still much more than can be done to improve the situations around you. Lucky Day: Thursday. ARIES: This Valentine's Day may seem a bit ironic to you, for you are thinking about ending a relationship which has proved disappointing. Don't feel bad ... it's o.k. to fall out oflove this week, too. Lucky Day: Thursday. TAURUS: Don't get down about an old relationship. Instead try to look ahead for new romantic opportunities. Lucky Day: Thursday. LEO: Evetytlring has been a disappointment to you lately, but it doesn't have to be. You have the power within yourself to change things ... don't always look to others for encouragement. Lucky day: Thursday. GE:MINI: This week will prove to be one of great social possibilities. Take advantage of this by letting yourself .go out more than you regularly do. Venture to new places, and see what happens. Lucky day: Thursday. CANCER: You have decided that the best tiling to do is not to do anything, and it's getting you nowhere. Change that attitude ... be aggressive to a certain degree, and maybe you're luck will change. Lucky Day: Thursday. VIRGO: Love is in the stars for you this week. Cupid has his arrow pointed right at you. What more can I say. Lucky Day: Thursday. LIBRA: Altllough you want to go out and have a good time this week, something is ltolding you back. Don't fight it ... it is for the besL Wait a while before you do something that will hurt you in the long run. Lucky Day: Thursday. SCORPIO: Having social problems? Juggling people and places? You deserve a little attention, so follow what makes you happiest. Lucky Day: Thursday. SAGITIARIUS: Last week dealt you a few too many blows, but you've come out alive. So now it's time to put it all behind you, and look for romance this Valentine's Day. Lucky day: Thursday. Green Card White Fang The Godfather m Kindergarten Cop Run L.A. Stories Never Ending Story Home Alone Hamlet Sleeping with the Enemy Awakenings Dances with Wolves Rescurers Down Under Pop Corn Once Around Call Theaters for Show Times. density doesn't hit as hard in the Great Barrier reef. It places E.P.M.D. below the upper echelon of rap's current players (De la Soul, the various Compton crews, Ice- T, Digital Underground, and Public Enemy) but within striking distance of shaking theiTl up. And making t:hem tougher_ Jesus Jones-Doubt (SBK) SBK is either the most schizophrenic record company im the world, or a gm11p of devil-may-care experimenters who deserve a damn good cup of coffee. Or a Grammy. Anyway, SBK made oodles of money by signing formulated Girl Scout Cookie acts like Van ill a Ice and Wilson Phillips. Then they delved into house (Technotronic}, soundtracks (trashing Shocker, dancey Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtl<es), and now attack the college charts with the second album from London's Jesus Jones. Their identity is no identity. The album Doubt reflects the label. Jesus Jones try all sorts of beats and paces, making the album diverse, but thin-skinned at times. \Stripped\ is a heavy industrial mess, \Who? Where? Why?\ starts off wilh sitars and a studio-doctored crowd of people chanting, then switches to B.A. D. influenced hip-hop, and \Nothing to Hold Me\ leans on a moody guitar that would be at home on some \Young Guns\ inspired Bon Jovi music. \Ritht Here, Right Now\ currently on the buzz bin of MTV, sounds like mush in the context of the album, but as a single it's sincere mush that shoots arrows and tickles fancies. They sound best when they tread familiar ground and deliver the house/rock sound of last summer's Liquidizer. \International Bright Young Thing\ screeches gleefully, and \Aie You Satisfied?\ includes sirens that were used frequently last album. As a whole, Doubt sounds ambitious, but is worth it for the single (\Right Here, Right Now\) and their best Cu:lt imitation (\International Bright Young Thing\). It's confusing. Maybe. The Tulsa Ballet Theatre Comes To Proctors Proctor's doubles the pleasure for area dance lovers Sunday, Feb. 24, at 7 p.m., when it presents the prestigious TULSA BALLET THEATRE in the dual performance of \Mozart Violirr Concerto\ choreographed by George Balanchine, and Franz Lebar's \The Merry Widow\ choreographed by Ruth Page. Balanchine originally created \Mozart Violin Concert<>\ in 1942 when he was guest choreographer for TeatroColon in Buenos Aires. Although enthusistically received and prominently included in Colon's repertoire through the '60s, it suddenly disappeared after 1968. It was rediscovered by the Tulsa Ballet Theatre in 1987 when it was again performed to critical acclaim and heralded as \a lost gem\ by the N e w York Post which went on to say \(it is)... all the more valuable because Balanchine, the Mozart of choreographers, rarely choreographed to Mozart.\ Other critics termed its return to the stage as somewhat akin to \ ... finding a Rembrandt in the attic,\ while others described it as \A balletic miracle\ and as Balanchine's black pearl.\ Lebar's \The Merry Widow\ has also garnered plaudits wherever the Tulsa Ballet has danced it. The tale is set in Paris shortly after the turn of this century, in the bankrupt kingdom of Marsovia, where the Baron Popoff lll'ges Prince Danilo to woo the rich widow, Sonia, so that the kingdom's coffers could be relpenished. Since \The Merry Widow\ premiered in 1953.rnany ofthe great names in ballet have starred, including Maria Tallchief, Mia Slaveska and Melissa Hayden. Rudolf Nureyev appeared as the prince in 1962 in his first role outside the classical repertory. More recently, Peter Martins and Patricia McBride danced the leads in a maj()f television production of tbe ballet. Weekend Movie ... lP zr re ([ (J 1 111® lll1 (fllll 7, 9, 11 CC And. Concert Band Rehearsal Tonight 4:30p.m. -5:45p.m. Memorial Chapel Achieve the Maximwn Score on the GRE + GMAT + LSAT CLASSES FORMING NOW! Securtng the highest possible score takes special preparation, which can only be provided by trained instructors. ln our courses. qualified instructors will lead you through an intensive review of key subject areas. n'le fad Is, you can't afford anything but the highest level of preparation. Call for registration and further h:Uormatlon. UNION Office of Graduate & Continuing Studies Schenectady, New York (518) 370-6672 FOR 1HE CONTINUING E'tTRSUITOF EXCELLENCE AA/EO - Co.bo.ret - Fedt\\ring: Stott Hil\l\i - ?ict.no 1'\~it Green~- 6u.it.1r t'il'\t l'iorin - ?\<l.nc> A Ni~h-1- to Reme.~k..­ T~v.r, F .. ~ lt+k '?J:oo f,l'\, u.3oa ' \ ..

· Page 18 CLUB NEWS NEWMAN CLUB ACTIVITIES - NEWMAN SUPPERS-· Tuesday, February 19th at 5 p.m. we will gather for supper and conversation with Sister Joan \Dreaming an<:! Imaging for the Future.\ All are welcome. Go through upper dining and bring tray to CC203 or bring your own. LENTEN PROGRAM- Six Wednesdays of Lent from 12:15 to 1 PM in CC404 Sister Joan will facilitate a Lenten program \Parables and Prayers for Lent.\ These six original stories by Father Edward Hays, director of a contemplative center in Easton, Kansas will touch and challenge you and make the Lenten message come alive in a powerful way. Bring a brown bag lunch. Hot water will be available. All are welcome. Tuesday, February 20th - The Board Meeting. R CIA-Congratulations to Alex Chiu '94 who participated in the Rite of Election at the Cathedral on February 17th and is now a Catechumen. CONFIRMATION- Classcs for Union--students arc meeting on Fridays in CC404 wirh Si~tcr Joan from 2:30 to ·L~O P\1 in prcpar~tttmt for April lgth. CONCORDIENSIS, February 14, 1991 CAMPUS NEWS FOLK GROUP-Singers and musicians interested in being part of the music ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Sunday Mass please meet at 6:30p.m. in St. John's church to rehearse. CLASS IF IEDS TUTORING-Union stud- ents who are interested in tutoring please contact Barbara Cash, Box. 279, Tel: 386-4181. THIS V ALENTINE'D DAY Surprise your roommate, friends, sorority sisters and fraternity bro- thers with a \Union College Telephone Gift Certificate\ available for purchase at Telecommunica- tions Office, College Center 103. For more info call 370- 6411. BLUES: Lead guitarist wanted for blues band. Stones, Dylan, Muddy Waters, Allmans and originals. Call Doug 372-8509. PERSONALS ----- --·---- ELL- 049 is looking for some U-235 for .... rcsearch. 1045 University & Friends- The party countdown is on .... 33 hours. Lisa, How's your back? -W Reem, I hope your day is fresh and you shoot Smith with a gun? Huh? Well, yc'..l get it, winkle. Love Dot Happy Birthday Brad! Love 1000 Union St. Jen, May this Valeatine's Day be the best you ever had. Tomorrow night will be incredible. I can't wait. Love Jordan Becky Stein, Happy,Happy,Happy Valentine's Day! You are sweeter than a Homentashen. Love Your Secret Admirer! Delta Pledges - Congratulations! LoveT Personals 50¢ College Center Information Booth ''RED, WHITE .~ND SLUE'' ACROSS •• BLUE - SLINDI\'t ~-t--1--+----{ i>ROHiElrT:OMS 5 i:l L U F r AI RY • f--,--1---+--+---t TP.lE fiAD GUY 10 Cravats 1-l Patn's partner 15 Drstrrb!J!e 16 Songstress Fitzgerald 17 Proper's t(lmpanion 18 RED OR WHITE Corpuscles 20 Tennis term 21 __ Cong 22 RED __ : BLUE LADY GIFT 23 Islamic chieftain 25 Paul Prudhomme, eg 27 Alternatives 29 NORTH AMERICAN PLANT OflHE GENUS IRIS 33 Inhabitant of Croatia 34 Landless laborers in Spanish America 35 _ aine: King Arthur's Mom 36 High class: Variation 37 Beer ! 38 Taj Mahal City 39 Precedes \QUE\: Dangerovs.ly close to Impropriety 40 Taunt 41 Remai11s: 42 WHITE __ : UN· WANTEJ) POSSESSION 44 Babbles 45 Crafls C()mpanion 46 BLUE __ : SPECIALLY PRICED MEAL 47 Opted 50 Decree 51 San Fran:isco hill 54 COLORF1JL FISH DR MISLEADtllG CLUE 57 Trig term 58 Terriloty 59 African people 60 Follows depend or confer 61 Head ho11c:ho 62 Horse or common companion 63 Eras DOWN 1 Circuils around the track 2 4840 square yards 3 EXECUTIVE MANSION 4 Theological sch. 5 Infants 6 \Ella\ In Boston? 7 Thanks ___ I 8 Kanga's baby 9 Prescription Initials: \Give such doses\ 1 o Start the golf game 11 Troubles 12 \She\ In Nice 13 Back talk 19 North American Indians 21 Vertical: Abbreviation 24 Hearl of the matter 25 Neck and neck 26 Pursue 27 Red or yellow pigment 28 Follow 29 Beauty's companion 30 Relieving 31 Ac:qulesca 32 BLUE __ : COUNTRY MUSIC 34 Blueprints 37 Trounce 38 Nonexistence: Hinduism 40 Number needed to make a crowd 41 \I smell ___ \ 43 Turkish titles 44 WHITE __ TUBERCULOSIS 46 Half quarts 47 Shellfish 48 Big sandwich 49 Keats' poems 50 Huck __ 52 Story slartar sa Words with spelling and quilling 55 Rythm and blues: Record abbreviation 56 Norma or Charlolte 57 RED OR WHITE __ : BODY OF WATER 2/91 ©1991 GFR Associates All Rights Reserved P.O. Box 9104, Schenectady, N.Y. 12309 Rubes® By Leigh Rubin Creators Syndicate, Inc. ® 1991 Leigh Rubin! \Really Herb, I'd wish you'd call il you're going to be late ... you know how I \Worry.\ Cannibal potlucks. That night there was little doubt that Father O'Leary would be working overtime.

' ' '· · Pag~ 18 CLUB NEWS NEWMAN CLUB ACTIVITIES NEWMAN SUPPERS-- Tuesday, February 19th at 5 p.m. we will gather for supper a:nd conversation with Sister Joan \Dreaming an<J Imaging for the Future.\ All are welcome. Go through upper dining and bring tray to CC203 or bring your own. LENTEN PROGRAM-· Six Wednesdays of Lent from 12:15 to 1 PM in CC404 Sister Joan will facilitate a Lenten program \Parables and Prayers for Lent.\ These six original stories by Father Edward Hays, director of a contemplative center in Easton, Kansas will touch and challenge you and make the Lenten message come alive in a powerful way. Bring a brown bag lunch. Hot water will be available. All are welcome. Tuesday, February 20th - The Board Meeting. R CIA-Congratulations to Alex Chiu '94 who participated in the Rite of Election at the Cathedral on February 17th and is now a Catechumen. CONFIRMATION- Classes for Union--students arc meeting on Fridays in CC404 with Sister Joan from 2:30 to 3:_'~0 P\1 in preparation for April 18th. CONCORDIENSIS, February 14,. 1991 CAMPUS NEWS FOLK GROUP-Singers and musicians interested in being part of the music ministry at the 7:30 p.m .. Sunday Mass please meet at , 6:30 p.m. in St. John's chmch to rehearse. CLASSIFIEDS TUTORING-Union stud- ents who are interested in tutoring please contact Barbara Cash, Box 279, Tel: 3S6-4181. THIS VALENTINE'D. DAY Surp·rise your · roommate, friends, sorority sisters and fraternl ty bro- tbers with a \Union College Telephone Gift Certificate\ available for purchase at Telecommunica- tions Office, College Center 103. For more info call 370- · 6411. BLUES: Lead guitarist wanted for blues · band. Stones. Dylan, Muddy Waters, Allmans and originals. Call Doug 372-8509. PERSONALS ELL - 049 is looking for some U-235 for .... research. 1045 University & Friends - The party countdown is on .... 33 hours. Lisa, How's your back? -W Reem, I hope your day is fresh and you shoot Smith with a gun? Huh? Well,. ycu get it, winkle. Love Dot Happy Birthday Brad! Love 1000 Union St. Jen, May this Valentine's Day be the best you ever had. Tomorrow night will be incredible. I can't wait. Love Jordan Becky Stein, Happy, Happy. Happy Valentine's Day! You are sweeter than a H()rnentashen. Love Your Secret Admirer! Delta Pledges - Congratulations! LoveT Personals 50¢ College Center Information Booth \RED WHITE AND BLUE\ By Gerry Frey ACROSS ' I ~ BLUE • SU NO A Y !7-:--+--+-+---1. PAOfiiBITIONS 5 BlUE __ .fAIRY· TALE BAD GUY 10 Cravats 14 Pain·s partner 15 Distribute 16 Songstress Fitzgerald 17 Proper's companion 18 RED OR WHITE __ . Corpuscles t-:.-:-+--+-t--1 20 Tennis term 21 Cong 22 RED __ : BLUE LADY GIFT 23 Islamic chieftain 25 Paul Prudhomme, eg 27 Alternatives 29 NORTH AMERICAN PLANT OF THE GENUS IRIS 33 Inhabitant of Croatia 34 Landless laborerS in Spanish America 35 _ aine: King Arthur's Mom 36 High class: Variation 37 Beer I 38 Taj Mahal City 39 Precedes \QUE\: Dangerously close to impropriety 40 Taunt 41 Remailis 42 WHITE __ : UN· WANTED POSSESSION 44 Babbles 45 Crafts companion 46 BLUE __ : SPECIALLY PRICED MEAL 47 Opted 50 Decree 51 San Fran:lsco hill 54 COLORFUL FISH OR MISLEADING CLUE 57 Trig term 58 Territory 59 Alrican people 60 Follows depend or confer 51 Head honcho 62 Horse or common companion · 53 Eras DOWN 1 Circuits around the track 2 4840 square yards 3 EXECUTIVE MANSIOII 4 Theological sch. 5 lnlailts 6 \Ella\ In Boston? 7 Thanks ___ ! 8 Kanga's baby 9 Prescr!pliBn Initials: \Give such doses\ 10 Slarllhe golf game 11 Troubles 12 \She\ In lllce 13 Backtalk 19 North American Indians 21 Vertical: Abbreviation 24 Heart of the matter 25 Neck and neck 26 Punue 27 Red or yallow pigment 28 Follow 29 Beauty's companion 30 Relieving 31 Acquiesce 32 BLUE __ : COUNTRY MUSIC 34 Blueprints 37 Toounce 38 N~anexislence: Hinduism 40 Number needed lo make a crowd 41 \I smell ___ \ 43 Turkish litles 44 WlllTE_~ TUBERCULOSIS 46 Jlall quarts 47 Sllellilsll 48 Bli sandwich 49 Keats' poems 50 Huck __ 52 Stt~ry starter 53 Words wHh spelling and q11illing 55 Rvthm and blues: Racord abbreviation 56 Norma or CharloHe 57 RED OR WHITE_: BflDY OF WATER 2/91 ©199'1 GFR Associates All Rights Reserved P.O. Box 9104, Schenectady, N.Y. 12309 Leigh Rubin Creators Syndicate, Inc. ®1991 Leigh Aubin! \Really Herb, I'd wish you'd call if you're going to be late ... you know hoW I worry.\ ~'\. ~,....--'\ _____ - -- l·.\~\ ~~ ~ \' (PREPARING ANYTHING .. · AL-: . \ I l!M 'ELLit-JG £VERt/oNE Crealors Syndicate, Inc. ©1S91 .Leigh Rubin! \ TO JUST BRING lf-IEMSELV£5 Cannibal potlucks. That night there was little doubt that Father O'Leary would be working overtime.

CONCORDIENSIS, February 14, 1991 Pa~e 19 CAMPUS NEWS -· PERSONALS Michi L- Congr:ats on getting into B.U. Law! We're so proud! M&L Michi- SMILB! SMILE! D()n't worry .... Valentine's Day and your B-Day don't carne until June 16. -UL Teresita- Have a great weekend! Give a big hug and kiss to Licky for me. -UL Delta Gamma Pledges, Learn the words to your songs and don't forget your pins! Delta Gamma Pledges, Get psyched for a great pledge 'odf pen . DearEnou, Have a Happy Valentine's Day on the HoHywood sign! Love, Me Wendy, Jane, Dave, Julie ... Happy Valentine's Day! Love, Becky Dan &Pete, · I didn't think you used such small cups. -CRF LOST: My brain last Friday, desperately needed for finals. If found. Call Jed. No questions asked. Congratulations to the sisters and new pledges ofGamma Phi, Tri-Delta, and SDT. Love the sisters and pledges of Delta Gamma! What is an Actuary? Come to the next Actuarial Club meeting and find out. CC Room 203. Wednesday &:00 PM. New comers always . welcome. Congratulations to the match- bids of Sigma Delta Tau! You · · guys are great! Love the sisters of SDT c1 ent tn e 's - - Cabo.l\et 5 Goit Hirn\ - Pid.no M~* Gne~e- Gu\tv.tr Make Mor\n - Pt~no A Ni~ht- To RemeM her - Th~r. Fe.'b l4+k ~:oo r,M. '\ 30~ When you give blood • you g1ve another hug. BLOOD MOBILE COMING FEBRUARY 1 BTH RNU 20TH MORE INFORMATION TO COME! American Red Cross + Please give blood. Congrats to the match-bids of Tri-Delt, DGI and Gamma Phi. Best of Luck. Love the sisters of SOT Dear Honey Bunny, I'm sorry for being such a jerk ·. lately. I hope you can forgive · me. I love you! Poopie Head Dear Sue, J e t'aime beaucoup. I hope we'll be together forever. Happy Valentine's Day Honey. · Love Always, Joe . . Dearest Butterdog, ' Would you be my Valentine? · Love. Pierre, xoxoxoxoxox Hi Laura-Doo, Thanks for coming. It's great to see you. Enjoy the skating. Love, your endearing brother- · Greg· PK, I don't need a special day to say how much you mean to me. Happy Valentine's Day. Love, Sue DearF, Happy Valentine's Day! Love, Your One and Only, L. Pudge- \Bom and raised in a briar patch ... \ No, I'll be a baby ! Trapper Keeper. \There was one lonely duck swirnmin' in the sea ... \ I'm puckered. Typographical error. You're looking great! Hang in there, Kid! Love always, Lisa JAK- Pan Am Flight#89 and possibly a Dead Show when we get back? I can't wait! LFA Roomer, Thanks so much for dealing with me as a basket case. Get totally psyched.and Happy Valentine's Day! LLL Holly- See, I'm doing something nice for you! Have a very Happy Valentine's Day! Lov·e, Lisa 20-Pt Turn, Gracias for all your awe>ome help last week. Get psyched for operation green cards! Beware, warn everyone that I am going to be their P-from Hell! Rocks Lise & Suz- We heard the bombings we \good terrorism.\ They C>nly bomb empty buildings! We hope you're staying safe 81ld having fun! Love, LFA, JAK, HJM, JLC, MCA, KLC, and JLV. S.F. - Are you a brother? Spe11d enough time at the hoase? Pong anyone? Finally saw \The Godfather\ - in good company? Course! Law tonight. -Your Partner ill Crime My Favorite Nibs, Congrats for hanging i11 there. I'm proud of your loyally and devotion. What time ancl all is well? A-Plus run? J.S. · Those push-ups were well deserving. -The Girl Next Door MM: Find your wavelength? -LL Tiffany- Congratulations - I'm se> psyched for all the fun we'll have (in and out of improv!) Delta Love · Nicole Dear Roomies, Have a Happy Valentine's Day! I Love You Guys! Clue OJ)erator MI- Happy Valentine's Day! Remember - A different species! I miss you! -WT Jewish Student Union @) fi1@]@ 0 @) !l [!j) !lf1@ IJiJ Professor Greenberg will speak on Zionism & Israel Come Jorn Us! All are Welcome! Please bring your meal cards. This SUNDAY! !

CONCORDIENSIS, February 14, 1991 Page 19 CAMPUS . NEWS PERSONALS MichiL- Congrats on getting into B.U. Law! We're so proud! M&L Michi- SMILE! SMILE! Don't worcy .... Valentine's Day and your B-Day don't come until June 16. -LJL Teresita- Have .a great weekend! Give a big hug and kiss to Licky for me. -UL Delta Gamma Pledges, Learn the words to your songs and don't forg~t your pins! Delta Gamma Pledges, Get psyched for a great pledge periodt DearEnou, Have a Happy Valentine's Day on the Hollywood sign! Love, Me Wendy, Jan~. Dave, Julie ... Happy Valentine's Day! Love, Becky Dan & Pete, I didn't think you used such small cups. -CRF LOST: My brain last Friday, desperately needed for fmals. If found. Call Jed. No questions ·. asked. Congratulations to the sisters and new pledges of Gamma Phi, Tri-Delta, and SDT. Love the sisters and pledges of Delta Gamma! What is an Actuary? Come to the next Actuarial Club meeting and find out CC Room 203. Wednesday 8:00 PM. New comers always welcome. Congratulations to the match- bids of Sigma Delta Tau! You guys are great! Love the sisters of SDT cty -Cabaret- - ' Scott Hirn\ - Vi~no M~-tt 6-reene- 6u\'td.~ Mike Mor\n - Pic.n o A Ni~h+ To Rt.meM ber - Th~r. Fe.k l4+l ~:oo r.M. ''- 3oa When you give blood • you g1ve another hug. BLOOD MOBILE COMING FEBRUARY 18TH RND 20TH MORE INFORMATION TO COME!· American Red Cross + Please give blood. Congrats to the match-bids of Tri-Delt, DGI and Gamma Phi. Best of Luck. Love the sisters of SDT . Dear Honey Bunny, I'm sorry for being such a jerk lately. I hope you can forgive me. I love you! Poopie Head Dear Sue, Je t'aime beaucoup. I hope · we'll be together forever. Happy Valentine's Day Honey. Love Always, Joe .. Dearest Butterdog, Would you be my Valentine? Love, Pierre, xoxoxoxoxox Hi Laura-Doo, Thanks for coming. It's great to see you. Enjoy the skating. Love, your endearing brother- Greg PK, I don't need a special day to say · how much you mean to me. Happy Valentine's Day. · Love, Sue DearF, Happy Valentine's Day! Love, Your One and Only, L. Pudge- \Bom and raised in a briar patch ... \ No, I'll be a baby ! Trapper Keeper. \There was one lonely duck swimmin' in the sea ... \ I'm puckered. Typographical error. You're looking great! Hang in there, Kid! Love always, Lisa JAK- Pan Am Flight #89 and possibly a Dead Show when we get back? I can't wait! LFA Roomer, Thanks so much for dealing with me as a basket case. Get totally psyched and Happy Valentine's Day! LLL Holly- See, I'm doing something nice for you! Have a very Happy Valentine's Day! Love, Lisa 20-PtTum, Gracias for all your awesome help last week. Get psyched for operation green cards! Beware, warn everyone that I am going to be their P-from Hell! Rocks Lise & Suz- We heard the bombings are \good terrorism.\ They only bomb empty buildings! We hope you're staying safe and having fun! Love, LFA, JAK, HJM, JLC, MCA, KLC, and JL V. S.F. - Are you a brother? Spend enough time at the house? Pong anyone? Finally saw \The Godfather\ - in good company? Course! Law tonight. -Your Partner in Crime My Favorite Nibs, Congrats for hanging in there. I'm proud of your loyalty and devotion. What time and all is well? A-Plus run? J.S.- Those push-ups were well deserving. -The Girl Next Door MM: Find your wavelength? -LL Tiffany- Congratulations- I'm so psyched for all the fun we'll have (in and out of improv!) Delta Love - Nicole Dear Roomies, Have a Happy Valentine's Day! I Love You Guys! Clue Operator MI- Happy Valentine's Day! Remember- A different species! I miss you! -WT Jewish Student Union Professor Greenberg will speak on Zionism & Israel Come Joi'n Us! . All are Welcome! Please bring your meal cards. This SUNDAY! !

/ Page 20 UNION COLLEGE BOOKSTO.RE'S PRESID.ENT'S ,DAY SALE CONCORDJENSIS, February 14, 1991 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 19:91 8:45AM- 4:30PM ALL REDUCfiONS TAKEN AT REGISTERS THIS IS A ONE DAY ONLY S.l\LE Get the~ Calling Card a·nd your first call is free. • There's no better time to speak your mind. Because Our calling Card is part of the AT&T Student Saver now when you get your free AT&T Carling Card, you'll Plus program, a whole package of products and services get your first 15- minute call fre&. designed to make a students budget go farther al . . .. . . With yoar AT&T Calling Card, So look for AT&T Calling Card applications on - ATr.~,,,,·:o::\t·:·:f.}·t··:::~:'-1 you can call from almost anywhere campus. Or call us at 1 800 525!7955, Ext. 655. 1 w 1 1 . , ,.@~~0·::=·~,,:-,:· '\•: to anywhere. And you can keep And let freedom ring. ~H. S$·'l:.':l!t.a:··l:lt1 : d if d ~'l&l~: c~~ ·· : your Cali , even you move an ~~--~-~ •. ::~.~ .~~~ ~m ~ ..... ._... . get a new phoae number. AIM. Helping make college life a little easier. *A $3.00 value for a coast-to-coast Calling Card call. AtJpllesto customer-dialed call.:; made during the AT&T Night/Weekend caUing period, llpm to B:am, Sunday through Thursday ancj llpm Friday through Spm Sunday. You may receive more or less.calling time depending on where and when you call. Applicatio-ns must be received by june 30, 1991 A taT The right choice. ~w~~~~~ ~~.~~ g~~ WINTERFEST WEEKEND Saturdety, February 16th 1:00 PM Sunday, February 17th 3:00PM College Center Auditorium All ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND!! r--:::::; ~ - '-··- - - - -, I CONTACTS I I · I I I I I -l 1 Student Services I i I.ENS LAB : Contact Lenses For Less 1 Fast, Convenient, Direct-to-You 1 savings of up to 50%. All Brands and Prescriptions in stock, in- I eluding Tints & Disposables. 1 Overnight shipments available. · Lenses 100% Guaranteed in fac- I tory-sealed vials. I Call for information and FREE CATALOG. I 800-726-7802 1 I ·~ t 24 Hours 1 • 7Days , , 1109 N. Hit Ava HollywoOd, Fl. ~ L-------------------------------------------------------------------------~~~~~-·--~

CONCORDIENSIS, February 14, 1991 Page 21 '@Jlnrorbirttsis SPORTS Swimmers Move Inside Edge: c~~d!m~.g~ 2 ost-Season • Alpine Ski Team Update possible. The women's team would also like to send a strong contingent to the nationals. Jeanne Cutrone, Kelly Bevan, and the 200 medley relay consisting of Julie Benker, Bevan, Cutrone, and Amy O'Neill have already qualified for the tournament. Anne Glicksman and Benker are also close to qualifying in the individual backstroke events as well. The :women are hoping to better their fourteenth place finish in last year's national tournament and perhaps even break: the top ten. Both the men's and women's swim teams have finished out a season of successes and victories with crushing wins over Albany. The teams must now muster their numbers and their strengths while going into the state and nathmal tournament. All individual stars must perform up to their capabilities and the teams must gel if they are to be successful and have their goals realized. To Red Grange And Those Who Created Hin1 By CARL FRIEDRICH, Jr. The flowing Red Locks still burn in the hearts of the thousands of loyal fans, clinging to their racoon coats and flasks, bearing against a bright fall afternoon, a little colder than the sunshine and merriment would indicate. Red Grange has finally been interred into the ground which he conquered with ease, leaving an image on the gridiron and an era like no one had done before. He stood above .the four horsemen and the Knute, and dashed his opponents whose gallant but Gorgon-like arms were slithered through Saturday after Saturday after Saturday. As the records broke beneath his feet, and in the stands of the War Memorial Stadium where he did his battling, his image became etched against the b::Jckdrop of an era, a Galloping Ghost, a ghost-like time. As he gallops now onto greener gridirons, it is impossible to think of a heartbeat which did not accelerate with each step he took. He out-gipped the Gipper, and out-broncoed Bronco. A fall leaf rolling over a now-faded billboard is now the remnants of what this Grecian gave us, but with that image is a reminder of a simpler, Golden Moment, which can never be forgotten. Like David, Grange is the chiseled memory of a more enlightened day. SPORTSWEEK Thursday February 14 Women's Swimming at Friday February 15 Women's Basketball vs Women's Swimming at Saturday February 16 Hockey vs Women's Basketball at Men's Basketball at Women's Swimming at Track at Tu.esday February 19 Hockey at Women's Basketball at Men's Basketball vs State Meet at RPI Vassar State Meet at RPI St Anselm's Williams Williams State Meet at RPI CfCMeet Middlebury RPI RPI Be an Athletic Suppporter SUPPORT UNION SPORTS 7:00 7:30 6:00 8:00 9:00 7:30 8:00 8:00 By JEREMY SOLLINGER The Swain Mountain race, hosted by Alfred and RIT, may go down in the record hooks as the weekend .of the year for the men and women's Alpine Ski teams. The penultimate race of the season, strong results were mandatory, as both squads continued their quest for a berth in the Eastern Ski Championships in late February. Preceding the weekend events, the women stood at fifth place in the 1 league, while the men were in sixth place. Of the 15 teams in the league, five advance to the Eastern Championsilips. The women hoped to maintain their solid fifth place position, while the men were anticipating a fast weekend, capable of pushing them into the top five in the league. On Sunday all goals had been achieved. The women, forced to ski with only three racers all weekend, overcame adversity and skied to a consistent fifth place. In addition, the men, finally living up to pre-season expectations, captured a third place trophy for the weekend and returned to Schenectady with the Dutchmen's first hardware of the season. Saturday's Giant Slalom was ilighlighted by consistent skiing, sunny skies, and the Radiators. Sophomore sensation Sean Livingst(!)n led the way for the Boardmen by finishing first for Union and seventh overall. He was followed by junior J em Sellinger who finished 12th overall, his best giant slalom result of the season. Senior Peter Cowles finished third for Union and 22nd on the course. Junior Patrick Rowe and sophomore Michael Singer. making his varsity giant slalom debut, rounded out the top five for the Dutchmen. For the Dutchwomen, Ali Pallotta and Beth Foley led the way by finishing first and sec<>nd for the team, and 12th and 14th overall. Betsy Mitcllell completed the top three for the Boardwomen with a 27th :place result. The slalom on Sunday proved to be pivotal in . determining the outcome of the weekend events. The tnen's team, infamously known for inconsistent, crash- filled slalom skiing. was finally able to stand up. Livingston led tile barrage witil a sixth place finish. The junior tandem of Sollinger and Rowe, iloth finishing the same slalorn of the year for the first time, finished 25th and 30th, respectively. For the women, bo~h Foley and Pallotta skied aggressively, confidently. and fast. Finishing seventh and ninth, it was ~he first time all season that the Dutchwomen placed two skiers in the top ten in the same race. Hometown hero Mitchell was third for the women and 25th overall. The weekend results enabled the men to catapult into fifth place in the league. The women, who skied incredibly, considering they only had three racers due to sorority rush commitments, maintained their fifth place position. With one race remaining at Labrador next weekend, both teams are more than in the hunt to qualify for the Easterns at Waterville Valley in New Hampshire. For the men, bringing home the hardware was a \sweet\ feeling, and hopefully they have set a precedent that will continue for both teams for the remainder of the season. SNOW DRIFTS: Hanz Needabar, promoted to head gatekeeper for tile weekend, ran two well-organized races. Minkey the Monkey was M.I.A. Steven Rowe, Julie Jamieson, Nicole Zaman sky, and Christina Wright are all expected to return to the slopes next weekend. Saturday Febe 16th POST HOCKEY GAME FOOD FEST sponsored by Social Committee FREE Hot chocolate & Pizza Bites & mini hot dogs in puffed pastry at CC Atrium following the game! - Part of Winter Fest - Delta Psi Delta presents Funny For( & 7:00 Saturday Feb. 16 at 553 N ott Street All Welcome.

Page 22 CONCORDIENSIS, February 14, 1991 cttvnrorbtrttsis SPORTS Regular Season Ends For Men and Women Swimmers FEBRUARY SCOREBOARD HOCKEY (1.6-4-3) By JARED SEL TER Both the men's and women's swim teams closed out their respective seasons with rousting wins against Albany at Union on February 6. The meet was the final regular season contest that the Dutchmen and Dutchwomen will face before the New York State and National Tuurnaments. The men served up their biggest win of the s~'ason by demolishing a small Albany team by over 70 points, 142-70. The women had equal success and the effects were nearly as disastrous for Albany. The Dutchwomen swam for 137 points while limiting their Albany counterparts to only 79. Both the men's and women's wins were one of the biggest for their respective teams. According to men's co- captain Mau Boon, the win was an important one for the men's team because it caps off their best season in over 20 years and sends them into postseason competition on a winning note. Boon credits the Union win to two factors. Boon says that the Union team \has never been this strong.\ The strength of the men's team lies in its depth and the performance of several individual talents such as David Robison, Bill Humphries, Tony Tramaglio, Andrew Wagshul, and Sven Zabka. These talents, coupled with a team that was not as good as other teams that Albany has put forward in the past, led directly to the Union rout. The Dutchmen captain called the Albany victory a \relatively easy one.\ He down played its significance to the regular season but did emphasize its importance to the postseason. Boon said that the Albany meet was \absolutely a preview\ of future events. The win allowed the men to go into the State Meet on the 21st of February at Union with a winning streak and a winning record. The Albany victory can now be a motivator and a point of momeatum for the upcoming challenges facing the team. The meet, though important in its own right, does not, according to Boon, measure up the the thrills of the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institt1te (RPI) or Hamilton victories for those were long term foes and defeaters of the Dutchmen. The men now look toward the state tournament and the challenges therein for their motivation. After last year's eleventh place finish the Dutchmen are looking to break into the top ten for the first time in years and send several swimmers to the Nationals later this year. Boon, along with other swimmers, feel that this is a conservative ex.pectation and hope to do even better. Head coach Susan Bassett would like to see the team place in the top five or six teams in the state. Boon would like to leave the states :having placed at least one swimmer \in the top eight in every evenl.\ The captain feels that with a strong showing in the postseason tournament the Union men's swim team will be \a team to be reckoned with,\ and that this season is merely \a show of things to come.\ For the women's swim team, however, the Albany win was not such a factor. The Dutchwomcn came off an 8- win and no-loss season only to see that streak ended by a strong Williams team in January. The meet against Albany, though it was not insignificant, became almost a given win because of the sheer strength of the women's program and the fact that, according to the women's team co-captain Kerstin Dorse, Albany is a team that has gone downhill over the last couple of years. According to the captain the most difficult part of the season was keeping the swimmers motivated and finding new goals to accomplish. After an undefeated season in which the state title The PEP BAND will be playing at the last home hockey game this Saturday. Meet at the Rink at 7 PM. New members are welcome! was captured, it seems as though there is nothing left to accomplish. Tough losses against Williams College and Hartwick C0llege changed that attitude because the team realized that wins are not given and that each meet will pose a new challenge. The addition of Williams to the Dutchwomen schedule was \better for us\ Dorse said. Williams has traditionally been a powerhouse in Division III swimming so the new and more difficult competition was healthy for a Union team that had been facing much inferior opponents. The meet against Hamilton was another motivator for the Dutchwomen because even halfway into the met it was not apparent who would win. The determination gained in the Hamilton meet will serve the team in good stead as it enters its postseason competition. The Dutchwomen will now · look to repeat as New Y:ork State champions as the 8 UNIONS at 9 UNION4 at 12 UNIONS at Bowdoin 4 Colby 1 Oswego 3 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL (9-12) 6 UNION 48 at 9 UNION 46 at 10 UNION 31 at 12 UNION 61 vs Hartwick 80 Connecticut 78 Middlebury 63 Plattsburgh 31 MEN'S BASKETBALL (13-6) 6 UNION89 vs 9 UNION52 vs 12 UNION 65 VS tournament on the 14th of February, at RPI, draws near. According to Dorse the meet is \going to be tough\ and repeating will be even more difficult. All teams, particularly Hartwick and Hamilton, will be gunning for the Dutchmen and their title. Ithaca, 'however, will pose the Skidmore 81 LeMoyne 77 Plattsburgh 7 4 greatest challenge. The Dutchwomen did not swim against Ithaca so it will be difficult to judge their talent and depth. The goals of the Dutchwomen is to get as many individuals into the top eight in their respective events and to win as many relays as Continued on page 21 Men's Track Puts Up Impressive Numbers By GREG BARRETT The past two weekends have seen many personal record performances by the Men's Track team. On .February 2, at the Capital District Championships and this past weekend at the Colgate Invitational, the Dutchmen rounded up some pretty impressive figures. At the Capital Districts, there were five personal records and a seasonal best. Rich Pulver was first, heaving the shot 44'1-1/4\ while Shawn Mowry rounded out the field of Union's weight men as he threw the 35-lb. weight 39'7- 3/4\ for a third place finish. Next came the running events and Mike Emmi turned in an impressive day. He started off 'Jhtn{ Annua[, ·Win Great Prizes with a PR in the 400m with a fifth place time of ss·.o~ Emmi later came back and posted a seasonal best of 2:20.3 in the· 800m. Chris Ryan just nipped Emmi at the 800m finish With · aPR of 2:18.3. Rich Zembek picked up a second place and a PR in the 500m with a time of 1:11.6. The last PRof the day goes to Ted Corrigan with an 8.0 in the 55m high hurdles. Last Saturday was just another day for the Dutchmen to show off. Keith \Beef' Reynolds kicked the day off in the shot with a put of 11.67m and a seasonal best. Glen \Crash\ Meixell followed his lead by vaulting his way to a fourth place finish. The running events also proved to be a strong point for the Dutchmen. Co-captain Bob Lindyberg sped his way to a seasonal best of 1:02.4 in the 800m. Lindy berg along with Bac Nguyen. co-captain Will Aliena nd Rich Zembek also picked up a seasonal best in the 4X400m relay with a time of 3:36. Jon Rosenfeld destroyed his previous seasonal best by knocking out a very impresssive 15:59 in the 5000m. The Dutchmen will travel to Southern Connecticut for the Collegiate Track Championships this weekend. If you want to learn about tne orange flag award, or if you want free cookies, practice f9r Spring Track starts on February 18 at 3:40 p.m. in the fieldhouse. Come out and run with the best. Rise above the status of a \campus looper\ and strut your stuff! Join the Union Track Team! :R.a.qu.et&a.tt 'Iou.rna.ment , •ALL proceeds to benefit •.. . •. AMERICAN ARTHRITIS FOUNDATION •Registration Dates • Feb. 4-11 in College Center •Tournament Dales - Feb. 15-17 Such As - • Pr. Day Ski Passes to Gore Mtn. •$25 Gifl Certlf.lcate to Luigi's •1 out of 6 cuos from College BoOkstore •Gift Certificate to •$20 Gift Certificate to Manhattan Exchange • $20 Gift Certificate to Goldstock's Pappa Cicco's • Gift Certificate 1o .Fireside •Pr. Tkts. to see Forbidden Broadway at Proctor's •Various Prizes donated •Two $1 o Gift Certificates to Michelle's by Friendly's •Haircut and Biowdry f.rom Shenanigan's and Ben and Jerry's

CONCORDIENSIS, February 14, 1991 Page 23 <!Ivttntrbirttsis SPORTS Terry Campbell Moves One Step Closer To Career Scoring Record By ANDY BRAVER Senior forward Terry Campbell had seven assists in three games last week for the Skating Dutchmen as they raised their record to 15-4-3. For his outstanding performances on the ice, Campbell has been selected as the Concordiensis Spotts Athlete of the Week. At the start of the season~ the 5'8\ center was the sixth leading scorer in Union's history with 115 points. and was one of.-an elite group of ten players on the Dutchmen's Century Club. Through the first 22 games of the season, Campbell has scored 14 goals and added 32 assists for 46 points, good enough to rank him in second place on the all- time list, six points behind Tod Fobare's record of 167. He is also the school's career assist leader with 112. Terry Campbell Campbell has scored at least one point in 19 of the 22 games to date, and has scored three or more in a game nine times. He is fourth on the squad in shots on goal, and of the 396 faceoffs he has taken this season,. he has won 148, a mark of 62.6%. As a freshman, Campbell tied for the Skating Dutchmen's scoring lead with 33 points. He led the team as a sophomore and junior, with 48 and 34 points, respectively. Campbell is also trying to become the first Union players since 1985 to score 50 points in a season. He needs four in the three remaining regular season games, as well as any playoff games, to hit the half- century plateau, and seven to become Union's career scoring leader. In the three road victories last week, Campbell had two a1sists in an 8-3 defeat of Hamilton, 4 assists at Bowdoin (5-4 win), and one assist at Colby (4-1). He has at least one point in 12 of the Dutchmen's last 13 games. Congratulations and continued success to Terry Campbell, this week's Concordiensis Sports Athlete of the Week. Women's B-Ball Struggling With 4 G•es To Go By RON BIRNBAUM Another misfortunate week has gone by for the Dutchwomen. basketball players. Having won their last game over four weeks ago at home versus Skidmore·. they have since had trouble seeing the light of victory. Hitting the road for Hartwick last Wednesday, the squad lost this mid-week battle by a score of 80-48. Travelling to Connecticut College this past weekend for the Subway Classic Tournament, it struggled against hard-hitting Connecticut and then against Mid~lebury, walking away with 78-46 and 63-31 respective losses. Their record now holds at 8-12, an upsetting tufllaround from the earlier winning 8-4 season. Against Hartwick, the biggest problems were seen to be rebounding and shooting, and after the shooting percentage in the first half at only 29%, Hartwick was able tojump out to a .38-13lead by halftime. Hartwick was able to put on a strong full-court press for the whole game, which led to 30 Union turnovers in total. While the cagers were able to hit a solid 55% in the second half, -this did not hinder Hartwick, which. as a solid shooting team, was able to end the game with a 53% .shooting record overall, with four players in double digits and minimal turnovers in comparison. Union had two players in double digits, junior forw~d co-captain Robin Romer with 20 points, and freshman forward Kirsten Dibble with 14. The team then moved to Connecticut College for the Subway Classic, which included Connecticut College, Middlebury, and Emmanuel (which the Dutchwomen did not play). Opening up against Connecticut, the team was looking forward to a good chance at winning. considering that though Connecticut had been undefeated for most of its season, it had lost its first two during the past week. Union had a relatively good first half, down only by 8, although it went flat in the second with only 18 points. Connecticut also went to a full court press in the second half. and Union had difficulty breaking it. Rebounding was about even for both teams, with Romer contributing a large 14 of her own. The second game on Sunday SUPPORT UNION SPORTS was a consolation round against Middlebury. The players again had trouble scoring as many shots hit the rim but did not go in, and though rebounding totals were acceptable, turnovers were again . heavy. Romer was elected to the All-Classic team at the end of the tournament, which consisted of the best five players from the four teams entered. According to head coach Joanne Little, rebounding is okay, but turnovers must be cut. Passing must increase to allow more people to shoot and score, considering that many shots have simply been unlucky in not finding the net though they were quality shots. This will most likely be seen as a transition season. Yet, despite the 8-game string of losses and the fact that Dibble and freshman guard Andrea Light have been out recently due to injury and illness, Union is still playing hard and together with a positive attitude. With four games still left to be played, the team is still hungry to win. The players know what to do but just must go out and demonstrate it on the court. If Union can have two solid halves in a row, it will win more games. The two final ho~e games are this week, agamst Plattsburgh and then Vassar (this Friday at 7 p.m.). The team is away on Saturday at Williams, and the fmal game of the '91 season is at RPI next Tuesday. We wish them luck. Mwlhing OH Wil B. e Back Next Week Inside College Basketball By ANDY BRAND With Superbowl XXV over, the time now belongs to the college basketball junkie. This is the final month of the regular season, a time where conference races heat up and teams· jockey for conference tournament positions. Teams hope to get hot now so that they might just be able to maintain their momentum into · the NCAA college basketball toumament or more commonly referred to as March Madness. So, with the season winding down, here are just a few reflections on some teams and players that have made this, already, another memorable season. For pure excitement you must begin with the Syracuse Orangemen. After this season they might consider changing their name to the Cardiac Kids so that the faint of heart would be duly warned. Syracuse has won their share of games this year in dramatic fashion. Against the University of Connecticut at home, Syracuse's LeRon Ellis slamdunked a missed shot at the buzzer to send the game into overtime where they ultimately won. The following week they played in D.C. There, Georgetown missed three shots in the final seven seconds as Syracuse walked away with the narrow one- point victory. This past weekend it looked like the Orangemen would have to play at Notre Dame with only six players. Apparently, the other seven players on the team bad ; committed NCAA infractions. But the NCAA reinstated them just two hours after they were suspended. In South Bend the luck of the Irish ran out as the Orangemen's Billy Owens hit the game winner with six seconds left. Another team that bears mentioning is the Running Rebels of UNL V. They are a team of men playing against boys. They have won seven games this year by more than 40 points, and they defeated Duke in the championship game last year by 30 points. Their perfect 20-0 record, including last weekend's victory at then No. 2 Arkansas, declares them the king of the mountain. This is a team that looks unstoppable on their way to another championship season. This is a team that can certainly go undefeated. Do not bet against them. Michigan St. lost a chance to make it to the final four last year when Georgia Tech's frshman sensation Kenny Anderson drilled the game- winning shot clearly after the buzzer. This year, Michigan St. got a reprieve when all- everything guard Steve Smith knocked home the winning shot against Cincinnati that television instant replay showed was definitely after the buzzer. Michigan St. also deserves note as being the most disappointing team so far this season. Expected to be among the top 10 all season, they have lost eight games already and have dropped from the rankings. There have been some incredible individual achievements this season. U.S. International's Kevin Bradshaw set the NCAA single game scoring mark when he scored 73 points against Loyola Marymount. The effort was in vain, though, when his team lost the game. This happened less than two weeks after Oklahoma's Brent Price scored 56 points against, of course, Loyola Marymount en route to a 172-118 win. Providence's Eric Murdock has emerged as one of the premier players in the game. He set the NCAA career steal record with over half a season to go. The top two players in the country, UNLV's Larry Johnson and LSU's Shaquille O'Neal, will battle it out during the remainder of the season for Player of the Year honors. Both players are putting up outstanding numbers, but look for the 18-year-old O'Neal to claim the title as college basketball's best. This has been a season where teams such as East Tennessee St., Utah, and Oklahoma St. have burst on to the national scene. Other teams such as Michigan St., University of Connecticut, and Alabama have proven to be disappointments. But with only a month away from March Madness anything can happen. No Sports Question This Week - Nobody is answering them!! <.-- ,,

0 iS g ~ Cl 55 0 § a. The Track Team will bear down at the CTC Meet on Saturday rn o r11ing. Union College donning their hardware for an in depth report. Turn to p. 21. S1rong Finish At~ Colgate For Women's Track By SANJ)RA ANSELMENT !his past Saturday the women's track team competed in th·e Colgate Invitational. The I ady tracksters had been lo<lki ng forward to this OJ>j}()rtuaity to show off their hud \W<lrk and this is exactly what they did. The team placed 4th in a large field of 13 competing teams. Junior Denise Saunders had the btisie.st day of the women, racing in the 55m, 200m, and the 4::x400m relay. She placed St:h ill the 55m with a quick 7.t. Later, her strong efforts handecl her a 28.8 in the 200m dasll. Fellow sprinter Candy Mills ~lso contributed a strong time (Jf 8.0 in the 55m. Movin,g up in distance, the 40DITI Vl:as a popular event for the Oaion ladies. Junior Rika Poor led the event placing 2nd overall with a time of 1:01.3. Clare \Mrs.\ Megathlin, just corni11g back off a foot injury, ran :an outstanding 1 :06.1. A 1·1 is on Garcia, the squad's newest runner from Albany Fturrn:acy, placed first in her heat ()fthe 400m with a strong time ()f 1:04.7. Rounding out tlte 4{)0rn runners was Mills in a time of 1:05. Sophomore stando.ut Tasha LaBare ran a t~rrific race in the 500m to place 3rd overall, also qualifying her for States. P:arsorns will be a top contender for tlhe State Championship in tllis event. Co-Captain Sandra An:'lelrnent ran the 100m in a time ()f 3: 19.8. Rounding out the racing, the 4x400m relay tcain <lf Poor, Parsons, Saur~ders, and LaBare finished with a11 outstanding time of 4: 16. This rc lay will also be a force to contend with in the State Meet. The women also had a terrific day in the field events. The team has three strong throwers who can always be depended upon to bring in the points. Junior Alix Goldschmidt continues to demonstrate her prowess in both the weight throw and the shot put. Ali:x placed 1st in the weight with a throw of 11.23m and 1st in the shot put with a toss of 11.77m. This distance in the weight is a new meet record. Following this strong lead, Sophomore Lori Simkins threw the weight 10.3m, qualifying her for the ECAC Meet. Lori also demonstrated her skills in the shot put with a throw of9.53m. Kerry Evers showed her stuff in the weight throw with a powerful throw of 7.67m. This is a mark which Kerry has been striving for since it qualifies her for the prestigious CTC Meet. In the shot put Kerry had a strong throw of 24'. Contributing to the success in the field events, Jeanne Forrest, the newest long jumper on the team from Albany Pharmacy, had a terrific leap of 15' 1 \. Next weekend the women's track team travels to Southern Connecticut to compete in the CTC Meet. This will be the last meet of the regular season for the ladies. Good Luck to the ladies in the Post-Season! For anyone interested in joining this winning team for the outdoor season, practice begins Monday Feb. 18th at 3:40 in the ficldhouse. All are welcome. See the trainer about getting a physical. ~upport 'minion ~ports February 14, 1991 Skating Dutchmen Win 3 On The Road; Move Into 4th In ECAC West By DAN STRUM Tlle Skating Dutchmen faced off against the Hamilton Continentals last Tuesday night, in the second meeting in two weeks between these two arch-rivals. Union capitalized on most of their offensive opportunities while holding firm on defense. The Dutchmen adapted their game plan to deal with the extremely small ice surface. In what may have been the last meeting between these two orange~hurling foes, Union prevailed with a decisive 8-3 victory. Hamilton opened up the scoring only q seconds into the game. They won the opening faceoff, turned up the ice, and caught Union flat- footed. The Oranges Came Once More. However, this was a blessing in disguise for the Union squad. The orange tradition was completed early and they were able to focus their efforts for the rest of the game without any further delay. Go,alie Jim Helkie looked shaip in net right from the beginning. He came up witll some big saves early, with one spectacular glove save on a one-time snap shot from right in front. At the midway point of the first period, Union tied the score with a shorthanded goal. Terry Campbell stole the puck at center ice and sent Rick Clifford in on a breakaway. Clifford put the puck top shelf to tic the score at 1-1. Later in the period,Wally Bzdell provided Union with some solid forechecking. Bzdell stole a pass and circled around the net. He passed it out front to a cutting Bill Railton who fired the puck nome to make it 2-1 Union. Less than two minutes later. Railton added his second of the game as the Dutchmen exploited the overmatched Hamilton defense with some sharp passing. This closed out , the period with Union ahead 3- 1. The second period was characterized by some sloppy play and some harder hitting. Unic>n killed off two different 5 on 3 disadvantages. It was a scoreless period as both teams were looking to settle the <Jutcome in period three. Hamilton's hopes were dashed early in the third as Union pulled away. Scott Whitney scored a power-play l!Oal on assists from Dalton Menhall and Campbell. :R.ailton gathered a hat-trick as lie deftly banked the puck off the goalie. Jeff Jiampetti. scored two goals in five minutes to make it 7-3. Kevin Sullivan closed out the scoring at 18:57 with the first goal of his Union College career. It was a solid, ~U-around performance for the Dutchmen. They kept their :assignments and executed their game plan. Once they had Hamilton on the ropes, they 11ever let them climb back in. Union had two other games this past weekend as they traveled up to Maine. On Friday night, the Skating Dutchmen played Bowdoin in front of a vocal crowd. The Union-Bowdoin matchup has always been a well anticipated and hard fought game. As not to break tradition, it turned out to be the most intense game of the season for the Dutchmen thus far. In a game with many lead changes and shifts in momentum, Union held on to win 5-4. TerryCampbellled the team with four assists. Dalton Menhall added two goals and an assist. Clifford, Bzdell, and Brian Geraghty each had goals while Whitney, Rick Burchill, and J iampetti each had an assist. Clifford's goal was his third shorthanded goal, which leads the team. On Saturday afternoon, Union faced a much weaker team in the Colby White Mules. The Dutchmen showed some slight signs of wear, but they put together yet another solid performance with a 4-1 win. With this win Union raised their record to 15-4-3. Burchill had two goals while Jiampetti added a goal and two assists to power the Dutchmen. .. Between the Bluelines .. Union is 9-1~2 in their last 13 games. They have their last regular season home game this Saturday night against St. Anselm's. In tribute to the ending of an era, I will close with an original work. An Ode to an Orange All good things must end, in life they all do, some people relieved, while others are blue ... after a goal, he yearned to fly, but Mr. Orange is gone, to Mr. Orange goodbye. Come Out and Cheer for The Skating Dutchmen as they play their Final Regular Season Home Game This Saturday at 7:30p.m. vs. St. Anselm's

Vol. CXX, No. 14 Gamtna Phi Beta, SDT To Receive Up Cam.pus Housing By STEPHANIE FRAY As a result of several administrative decisions made over the past week, as of the 1991-92 a~ademic year, the Sigma Delta Tau sorority will no longer be housed in South College and the college community may finally witness Gamma Phi Beta sorority members residing under one roof on the college campus. Presently, it would appear that Sigma Delta Tau has chosen Potter South as its new home while Gamma Phi Beta will be given Hickok House. Gamma Phi Beta will be given its respective residence as is, albeit that Hickok does not have kitchen facilities. It is still unclear as to whether or not improvements will be made to Potter South before Sigma Delta Tau moves in. The Sigma Delta Tau sorority was informed that it would have to change the location of its house by the Dean of Students Office after an assessment of the current housing situation was made by the administration. Although Dean of Students Joseph Mammola refused to comment on the issue early Tuesday morning, later in the day he cited concerns regarding the Hickok program's capacity to fill its beds alongside inadequacies of Sigma Delta Tau's kitchen in terms of its size and its stove as the primary reasons behind the surprising de<;ision to move Sigma Delta Tau. According to Dean of Residence Life David Wood, tentative plans are currently being made for the future usage of South College, while Dean Wood stated that discussions are going on regarding what should be done with Sigma Delta Tau's old residence and that the forum is open for numerous options. Dean Mammola proposed that South College would be a viable alternative for the 1991-92 location of the Hickok Living and Learning program. Mammo1a asserted that the Sigma Delta Tau house \has not been adequate to meet the needs of the college and the people living there.\ He claimed that not only would more of the sorority's members be able to live on campus together, but also that in moving the Hickok program to South College, freshmen residing there would be closer to other freshmen as well as the West dining facilities, two factors which have been the focus for criticism of the current program. Due to the decision, members of the college community have raised concerns focusing primarily on the seemingly unlimited power of the administration. In short, students have expressed fears that Dean Mammola's statement, \If we didn't have to deal with the Greeks, things would be a lot easier.\ at a meeting of the SAC on January 31 regarding the 1991-92 residence guidelines, may have been more than just words regarding the housing issue. Accordingly, students claim that if the administration has power to move the location of a Greek organization at the snap of a fmger. it could perhaps use its authority in a more dramatic way. Mammola asserted that Gamma Phi Beta feels confident that the sorority will have no problem filling the 50 spaces that has been allotted to them in Hickok House. Additionally, members of Sigma Delta Tau appear to be enthusiastic about the administration's decision regarding their replacement for next year as it will in turn increase their housing capacity by almost one hundred percent Schenectady, New York Union: NCUR \!l1 Studant Participants Nama Dept. Teresita camacho Sociology Julie Davis Political Science Amy Dillenback Sociology Jennifer Holmes Political Science Jane I. Huang Sociology Barbara Jensen Mathematics Leslie Kahn Geology Karen Lottick Economics Larissa J. Lucas Sociology Susan E. Lyons Psychology Marijo Madonia Biology Sheila McCabe History Natalie Rudko Electical Engr. Cynthia Siverio Economics Megar:t Stamper Psychology Hyla C. Sweet Biology Tara E. Tolan History Cheryl Yanofsky Economics Mark W. Becker Psychology Michael Dufault Psychology David Frank-Molnia Physics Eric Fullar Physics Matthew C. Greiner Electrical Engr. Ira A. Gurland Chemistry Karl Hartmann Electrical Engr. Edward C. Hood ·Geology Walter Keller Physics Edgar letrlz Modem Lang. Franz T. Litz Political Science Michael Migliozz1 Physics Shawn F. MoWIY Physics Adam Robucci Mathematics Todd Smick Geology George Steffian Psychology Marc Unger Chemistry Chris Willey Chemistry Union to Send 36 Students to NCUR By STEVEN CARR Associate News Editor Thirty-six Union College students have been chosen to participate in the 1991 National Conference of Undergraduate Research (NCUR) which will be held from March 21-23 at the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena, California. The 36 students are from diverse areas, and will be representing 15 different disciplines at the conference which Union hosted last year. Four faculty members will be accompanying the students at the conference: Roset Khosropour, David Peak. Cherrice Traver, and Tom Werner. According to Professor David Peak, Union's attendance at the event is very high. ln fact, it is the highest next t<> the University of Minnes<Jta, which is entering over 40 participants from an enrollment of approximately 60,()0() students. The conference will last three days and consist of between 1,300 and 1,400 student :presentations. Approximately 850 of the presentations will be oral versions of research papers, the remainder ranging from artistic performances to :photograph exhibitions. In support of the conference, Union will be paying for the expenses of the students, including air fares, hotel accommodations and registration fees. Later this year, Union College will be having its first annual Research Presentation Day. Scheduled for April 12, the day will allow students to present their research to the Union College community. This will consist of the 36 students attending NCUR and also any others who wish to present projects. President Hull, who came up with the idea for the Research Presentation Day, hopes it will be a big success and will become an annual event. February 21, 1991 Groups Lobbying To Change School Motto By LARA CHAMBERLAIN As Union experiences its 20th year as a coeducational institution, many attempts arc being made to make the status of women level with that of the men. One idea that a concerned group has offered is to change Union's motto. The motto, which appears on all college letterheads as well as htmdreds of various other objects that embrace the Union name, translates from the Frenc.h to read \Under the laws of Minerva we all become brothers.\ A number of professors at this school point out what they feel to be a slightillg of Union women in the term \brothers.\ Instead, they would like to have the motto read \Under the laws of Minerva we all become one.\ Professor George of the Biology Department, along with 15 to 20 other professors, started a letter-writing campaign to President Hull immediate' J following his inauguration. Professors Karen Williams, Ruth Patrick, Steve Lab<Jnne and Ruth Stevenson were among the many concerned educators anticipating a change. The letters were in response to the strong remarks made about the motto in the new President's speech. Professor George stated that although the motto was continued on page 3 Photo-ofmthe-Week: Student pt1one-a-thon off this week.

<i.tllttnlrbirnsfs NEWS ANALYSIS Re-Prioritize The Press By JIM POLITES Domestic news coverage concerning the United States' monumental role in the Persian Gulf War has narrowly focused on our escalation and subseque:nt involvement in battle, resulting in analysis and government-influenced prop~ aganda that offers the American public few an.swers to our most potent questions. The simple idea of journalism is to objectively report newsworthy events, regardless of the people, groups, or organizations that might be offended. By the same token, what we read in the New York Times and Time magazine should not be federally documented information that blindly regales aU actions we as a country perpetrate, especially when the stakes involve enormous loss of human lives. Reporting should first and foremost present facts, thus allowing the reader to form his or her own opinion based on the al:tions, attitudes, and philosophies of the parties up for debate. This means that the exertion of outside force, in the form of heavy handed government scrutiny, is somehow magically repelled, or at least muted. Of course, the attractive image painted here is an aberration, a utopian society that even in the freest of nations, like America, is a far cry from reality. The truth remains: news in this country is preoccupied with the hollow task of dealing with the hype and cheerleading of warfare, rather than attacking the nuances, motivation, and reasons for battle. The American public is more than ready to accept our steamrolling Saddam Hussein - people see this as a good versus bad situation that must involve casuahies if we are going to solidify our claim of global superiority. The harsh result is we transform the horrors of this distressing conflict into some type of deranged contest of will. Feelings are not based on well-informed conviction but an agnostic (having faith in something, with a philosophy of not knowing) belief that runs no deeper than the widespread propaganda fed to us by the government ranks. To resolve this serious obstacle of groundless philosophy, we in this nation must re-evaluate the facts that have been afforded us, and distinguish them in their most primitive, unprejudiced form. At this poi11t, it is paramount in importance to ask the difficult q11estions even the highest o:t:rice in the White House is not prepared to answer. Reporting sho11ld first and foremost present facts, thus allowing the reader to f()rm his or her own opinion, based on the actions, attitudes and philosopb.ies ()f the parties QP for debate. For the .stringent debate that abounds in this country, we must ask D(:)l of the importance of air saperiority over Iraq, but rather ax-e we risld.ng the Jives of our military men and women for reasons other than (and hopefully better then) blocking Saddam's quest for an oil cartel. President Bush will undoubtedly persist in advocating the notion ·that the reinstatement of the original Kuwaiti government is simply Will We Support A Ground War? By SREEDHAR SAMUDRALA In a recent Time Magazine poll, 58% of all Americans consider the war in Iraq to be \worth the toll it takes in American lives and in other costs.\ With few American casualties, support for this war has been high. Americans seem confident that war will not be prolonged. Although the continuous U.S. 'surgical' bombing strikes have eliminated much of the backbone of Iraq's military machine~ the U.S. still needs to deal with the mainstay of the Iraq's military ~ its army of over 500,000 men. The U.S. must not only force Iraq to withdraw from Kuwait, it needs to insure the world that Saddam Hussein will never have the means 'to wreak havoc' in the Middle East again. months now, and officials at the Pentagon declared our ground units to be ready for the ground offensive. One official said, \The ground units are cocked and ready and we're waiting for George Bush to pull the trigger.\ If Baghdad cannot unconditionally withdraw from Kuwait, the U.S. has no choice but to initiate a ground war. Recent bombing raids have resulted in casualties to Iraqi civilians and destruction to their homes. These 'accidental miscalculations' oppose all U.S. war policies, and they reduce out international support for the continuous bombing campaign. More importantly, how many Iraqi civilian deaths can the Arab world witness before reversing its support to the goals of Saddam Hussein? So far Hussein bas had great success in publicizing its civilian casualty rate. This publicity has the potential of forming deep rifts in the anti- Baghdad coalition. on cut salaries, and many have . reached financial obstacles forcing the.m into debt. Although the ground campaign may inswe a quicker victory, it guarantees bigher casualties. Last Friday, a New York Times :POll estimated that 11% of Americans feel the need te start the gro11nd campaign. So far casualties have been so low that Americans never really had to measwe ~tile war in terms of costs in lives. This will change a positive derivative of ousting Iraq. The bottom line, though,. is that the economic implications of this conflict are instrume11tal in explaining why we have deployed such. extreme military masses overseas. The· United States govern- ment, from the Chief Executive to his ·Cabinet right down to Congressional representatives, woutd never admits to the fact that something as trivial as oil (comparable to American lives) could be at the heart of wartime reasoning. Figures like James Baker and, Colin Powell are much tO() .sage to reveal the ground roots of the path to battle - they simply continue to drum up popular emotional support that carries a tidal wave of patriotism toward our involvement. Furthermore, we should ask if ·our place in this conflict is defined by a preoccupation with building the prestige of U.S. military forces by clashing with a visibly inferior opponent or are we repre- senting the oppressed and defeated Kuwaiti population (and subsequently people of Israel)? These are the multifaceted controversies that must be ~lS v id;ns of a ground war head home in body bags. However, many Americans still have failh in the Pentagon's military strategists in knowing how to win this war with the lowest cost in American lives. Timing is crucial for starting the ground campaign. Some U.S. leaders are supporting the further delay of the ground war, while Hussein is awaiting for his strongest ally, the khamsin season. The kbamsin season, which begins at the end of February, lasts almost two months. It is a period when the desert is !lit by heavy winds of 35-45 miles per hour forming immense sand storms. The sand storms are followed by the \haboob\ which is a :period of murky tlmnderstorms which dump tons of muddy water often reducing visibility to zero from the. ground up to 20,000 The continuous air strikes against Iraqi installments proves that even erroneous bombing raids cannot \bring a country to its knees.\ In World War II, we dropped more than ten million tons of bombs on Nazi Gennany, yet Hitler's war production was five times higher at the end of the war than at the beginning. Our troops have been stationed in Saudi· Arabia for over six The longer the war lasts, the less support the U.S. will be able to draw from Americans. Our nation is in a recession, and a prolonged war will further worsen economic conditions. Families of reservists and troops across the nation are being forced to live ~~ SISK.t.L ~ EBERT addressed, not moot points of winning, and in the process killi~g off as many Iraqis .as posstble. While we as citizens endlessly debate the roots of war on safe American terrain, it cannot be forgotten that battle rages on in the Middle East, every day claiming the precious lives of more fighting men and women. There will never be a dear answer as to why such world events like the territorial aggression of Iraq must mean death to so many. By reevaluating the true issues and motives, .though, we can shed light on a still mysterious arid horrifying phenomenon. More importantly, it could assist in the ultimate resolution of such conflict: the avoidance of war altogether. Maybe then things will finally be perfectly clear. Pray for tlie safe return of a{{ tliose in tlie feet in the sky. These khamsin storms blanket areas of 60 to 100 miles in diameter and last 36 to 48 hours. It is no surprise that Hussein is doing his best to draw us into ground war. U.S. troops are not trained for these conditions and our sensitive military equipment may not be able to hold through these rigorous conditions. Baghdad radio recently announced, \The number of Americans killed will exceed tens of thousands if a ground battle occurs with Iraqi forces which are trained in defensive combat to an extent that no other force in the world has reached.\ This may only be boastful propaganda, but if the ground war occurs or not, our final goal remains the same, to win the war and bring our troops home alive. l !,

! !, ' ' I ··' CONCORDJBNSlS;· Felirilary.:21', 1991· Housing Policy Finalized By S:£EPHANIE FRAY The confusion and uncertainty surrounding next • year's housing policy which has ensu¢ for almost one yeat has fmally been dissipated. The 1991 Residence Requirement and Lottery Guidelines were approved in their final form by the Student Affairs Council at . meeting last Thursday, February 14, Although the Board of Trustees affirmed the policy requiring ali students to live in campus housing, provided such housing is available, last fall, it has remained unclear as to how the policy would actually be implemented. Campus. housing has been defined by the policy as Alpha Delta Phi, Chi rsi, Davidson, House, Delta Phi, Edwards House, Fox House, Hickock House, Kappa Sigma, McKean House, North College, Phi Delta Theta, Potter House, Psi Upsilon, Raymond House, Richmond House, Sigma Phi, Smith House, South College, Webster House, and West College. The final plan purports· to keep in mind the needs of returning sophomores and juniors as well as the incoming freshmen, who will all be required to live on campus. Add~tionally, unl,i.ke the original draft, the new policy makes a limited number of rooms available to seniors ~r.d it allows for various opportunities in which seniors may reside in special interest housing. According to the schedule set forth by the guidelines, special interest groups, including the on-campus GI'eek organ- izations, will be required to submit housing rosters and contracts to the Residence Life Office by April 12, 1991. All other seniors who are not aligned with either a special interest group or a Greek organization who would like to · live on campus in 1991..;92 will also have to submit a request by this date. \Based upon the number of seniors granted on-campus housing privileges and estimates of the numbers of incoming and returning students,\ thepolicy states that \the Office of Residence Life will detennine the number of juniors who can be granted off- campus privileges.\ Juniors should submit written requests to live off-campus by April15, 1991. The juniors receiving these privileges will be determined by lottery. According to Dean of Residence Life David Wood, the policy in its final form is much better than its draft as it takes into account all of the concerns aired by the SAC. He noted that the proposal \sailed through the Student Affairs Council clearly and quickly.\ Reported Security Incidents 2/ 11/91 CAMPUS OPERATIONS MOTOR VEHfCLE ACCIDENT 2/111'31 SCIENCE & ENGEERING MEN 1 S ROOM VAND~liZED 2/11191 GREEN HOUSE BREAK-iN DISCOVERED 2/11/91 RAYflONO HOUSE WINDOWS VANDALIZED 2/11191 WELLS HOUSE TRESPASSER ADVISED OFF CAMPUS 2/11/'31 SCHAFFER LIBRARY ANNOYING PHONE GALLS RECEIVED · 2/12/91 DAVIDSON PARKING LOT SUSPICIOUS VEHICLE SPOTiED ON CAMPUS 2/ 13/'31 FOX HOUSE STUDENT HEARD NOISES AT ROOM DOOR 2/14/91 EDWARDS t-IOUSE SPRINKLER SYSTEM VANDALIZED 2/14191 CAMPUS MOTOR V.EHlCLE ACCiDENT 2/14/91 HE LAB MOTDR VEHICLE ACCIDENT 2/i 4i91 BP.OWELL GATE HOWR VEHiCLE AC:CIDEtH 2115/91 FOX HOUSE HARASSING PHONE CALLS REPORTED 2/16/91 COLLEGE CENTER ~LARM CONTACT. VANDAll ZED 2/16/91 ~EST COLLEGE ATTEMPTED BREAK-IN REPORTED 2/17/91 ViWIDSON HOUSE OBSCENE TELEPHONE CALLS 2/17/91 FOX HOUSE ROOI'I DOOR VANDALIZED 2/17/'H RAYtiOND HOUSE WINDOW VANDALIZE!}. 2/17/91 ASTRO TURf AREA VANDALISM TO TWO LI6HT POLES. _., Student Forum Spotlight The Student Forum spent the past week discussing details on a variety of subjects. The first and foremost was the Student Affairs Council (SAC) proposal that Gamma Phi Beta be given housing for the 1991- 92 academic year. The vote was passed by a margin of 6-1 with one abstention. This yielded a positive sign to one of .the student members of the SAC. According to that member, the vote indicated that at least one member of the Union faculty was in favor of the proposal. The Forum expressed continued · concern over the fmal proposal to be brought forward with regards to next year's housing lottery. The second concern of the Forum was the fact t:hat very few of the committees recetvmg funding or recognition from the Forum had submitted 6th week reports. These reports are due for any club recognized by the Student Forum that does or does not receive funding. Any club that does not submit a report may either lose fundir.g for next year. or not get it at alt Also within the realm of business was the need for a new secretary which was fil:led by Steve Carr, current Associate News Editor and soon to be Editor-in-Chief of Concordiensis. It was also announced that Matt Tucker of Phi Gamma Delta will be the IFC representative to the Forum for the remainder of the academic year. Finally, the Forum expressed the concern that it was not involved with any activities directly involving the· entire campus community. As a result, the Forum has decided to begin work on either 421 Paige Street or a similar housing project within Schenectady. Lastly, many Forum members expressed concern over the recent Residence Life survey and its particular biased sentiment. The Forum will discuss this issue, as well as others at their next meeting tonight at 8:30 PM. Anyone interested is welcome to attend. WRUC General Meeting for ELECTIONS has been changed to: Monday, March 4 at 8:00 p.m. ALL MEMBERS ARE REQUIRED TO ATTEND Club Status Reports are still bein.g accepted by the Committee on Committees in Student Actjvities Office. Get them in A.S.A.P. P.age 3·, Motto Change Requested Continued from page 1 mentioned in this speech, Hull \didn't address the problem.\ The change would require a replacement of the word \freres\ with \unis.\ Seen by many as a minor modification to help improve women's status, it is also viewed in a light of skepticism by others. Many feel that a 200-year tradition should not be broken and believe that \brothers\ is taken in a symbolic sense as it currently stands. Additionally, Professor Bill Thomas voiced his concern about losing the poetic rhyme of the current Union motto. President Hull said he will be dealing with the problem but that he did not want to move too fast. He is faced with tradition and a questionable alumni response to be weighed against a growing consideration for women's identity. SENIOR PRINTING DAY CHUCROOM, HUMANITIES BASEMENT EVl;RY SJ~;TURDAY, 12:00-6:00 PM Free Prlntlnc on Rainbows Free lma~:ewntcr copies SPECIAL RATES On Mac Laser Prbit.er for Seuiors on Saturday lo{. a pa~:.e· $5.00 mnxlraum per dny The Next Actuarial Club Meeti~g will be on Wed., 2127 at 8:00p.m. in cc 203. Newcomers always welcomel

UNION COLLEGE DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT and BIOLOGY CLUB Present \Archaeonteryx and the Origin of Birds\ Peabody Museum YALE UNIVERSITY Thursday, February 28, 1991 4: 4 0 SOCIAL SCIENCES Room 104 REFRESIIi'viE.VTS 4:30 •t•••••~•••••*•~-•-••••*••,~•~••••*~•t•••~•~~***#aao•••••$•~•t•••• • • UNION COLLEGE ~OSHER KITCHEN presents: SI?AGEHETTl AIIO HEATBll.LS DINNER Thutsday, February 21 * • * ALL are welcome~!! Erlng your ·meal card!!! ~oc~~e~ on the south s1de of West College ~J.JSCe: Q.AR;t:WNS. :B:u.cscb. Gardens; .a family . theme \p ~··:l;:a;I?awJiitw~\ia.A4titw& .. summer jobs in their ente~nt department. The summer jobs include; musicians, . perfonners, technicians, seamstresses, and dressers. . ,, I ( c J ( o l fl I \ I , _I HEY OUDE! ALL YOU CI\N E.l\'1\! I ·····:::··-·· I \ I For more information on these summer jobs and internships. come to the Career I \ ______________ / Development Center located on the Third Floor of Old Chapel. , .. .,, . Bringing New Freedom of Expression to the College Faculty The IBM Advanced Academic System can free you to do what you do best: impart knowledge to your students. I I ~ You can compose and design your own lectures I and course materials-even add animation to . stimulate interest and understanding. You TI.Jc IB:\1 :\(Iva need .\Padt'mic SvstPIH . . ' . can create imaginative literature for class or I i ! administrative needs with the systeml5 graphics and desktop publishing capabilities. You can I create an interactive environment with the system's Classroom Presentation Oj)tion. By means of student response keypads. your class can react to questions or discussion points projected on a screen. From research to classroom lectures, from grading papers to ad- ministrative an(:l pi;rs<lhal, tasks, the system can help you be more pro- ductive and creative. Built-in tutorials and faculty-written exam- ples free you from a long learning process. Easily recognizable icons eliminate the need to type commands. You simply point your mouse to select and move through programs. The Advanced Academic System is avail- able with three models of the IBM Personal System/2®: Model70 (l2l); Model 55 SX (061) and the portable Model P70 (121 ). Each model comes preloaded with many software programs including Microsoft® Windows\' 3.0 and Asymetrix Tool· ~;>'! .. . .~ Book.\ Each PS/2® model features a mouse, high-speed processing, large memory and high-capacity storage. We have listened to the needs of college faculty and the result is a personal computer solution that is focused on the tasks of higher education. It means new freedom to express your ideas more clearly, more forcefully and more effectively. For infonnation, visit your campus location or call I 800 525-4738 for a brochw-e. ::;;:::;:::::-:=® ==~=':'= UNION COLLEGE BOOKSTORE college center HOURS MON. - FRI. 8:45 - 4:30SAT. 11:00 • 3:00 TELEPHONE 518 370-6188 FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONTACT CHARLES BOSWORTH =,-----'®IBM, Personal System/~ and PS/2 are registered trademarkS of International Business Machines Corporation. M•crosollrs a regiStered trade'rlark of Microsoft Corporation '\'Windows rs a lrademark of Microsoft CorporatiOn. Tool Book is a lrademark of Asyn1etr~• Corporation Th1s offer IS ava1lableortlylo qualifiedinstltuuonsandtheir faculty, staH and students who purchase IBM PS/2 sthrough partic•pahng campus locallOns Jrders are subject to avatlabilily.I8M may withdraw this offer· at any lime wdhout nollce. ~18M Corporation 1990 f \. ,. I.

UNION COLLEGE DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGICAL SGIENCES • • • • • • THE BIOLOGY DEPARTM-ENT and BIOLOGY CLUB Present \Archaeoptervx and the Origin of Birds\ •~-•~ ;r!11)T\:'. 'C\ ffi't<::l1ffUl~\\1l :;.;., -'~\ <1i! \-11.:1 .! '\ \\o 'I.;J'i:)) lN. \IJII'7ll Peabody Museum YALE UNIVERSITY Thursday, February 28, 1991 4:40 SOCIAL SCIENCES Room 1()4 REFRESHMENTS 4:30 U~ION COLLEGE KOSHER KITCHEN presents: SHCEHETT I AND MEATBALLS DINNER Thu~sday, Februazy 21 ALL art> welcome!-!! Bring your medl card~!! LccJ~ej on the south side of West College I _I \ HEY DUDE! ALL YOU Cl'.tl EAT! \ _________________ __/ \ I I .. • .. • • * • \ t ~ i- ,-. -~· ..... ,_:.·-.-,-.-,. : • • • ---: ·::· ·;?'/:::~:. .:':·:. -~, :· A~-::>~~~:::,_ ..... \:t\M:~~;~:~:~ .. ;,:;:p..,:i.:~:;:::~~:~-::::::-:;;-:::;~::·::':·. . . For more information on .these summer Jobs .and internships, oome~,t{) .. c.;theA::Meer- . Develqp.me,pt Center located on tl!~,l'hircJ,fJ,oor,of Old, .. C~pel, ._._ •• _-- .. _ ....•..•.... - ..• ,. .... .. . ·--.•- I t 11 1: fl: 1'. ;l J1: 1: i ~ 1: II J1: :l J1 l J: J1: A 1: I t I; fl: :1. a~ it J1: a 1: lt t 1:. It • 11: * 1: Jl: Jl: 1; 1: :l *I :l:.t :1: t 11 fr· ft :I: t.:R t t t t t t: !' :l Bringing New Freedom of Expression to the College Faculty The IBM Advanced Academic System can free you to do what you do best: impart knowledge to your students. You can compose and design your own lectures and course materials-even add animation to stimulate interest and understanding. You can create imaginative literature for class or : __ : ... ·,-· - 1- . ~~ ·;. : administrative needs with the systems graphics · and desktop publishing capabilities. You can • create an interactive erwironrnent with the systems Classroom Presentation Option. By means of student response keypads, your class can react to questions or discussion points projected oil a screen. From research to classroom lectures, from grading papero to ad- ministrative and nPY'Ct>Yl<l tasks, the system can help you he more pro- ductive and creative. . · I )psi grwd for c'ast• of iN • .Built- in tutorials and faculty-written exam- ples free you from a long learning process. Easily recognizable icons eliminate the need to type commands. You simply point your· mouse to select and move through programs. The Advanced Academic System is avail- able with three models of the IBM PeiS<lnal System/2®: Model 70 (121)~ Model 55 SX (061} and--the portable Model P70 .Q21). Each model comes preloaded with many S()ftware programs including Microsoft® Windows YM 3.0 and Asymetrix Tool- Book.\' Each PS/2® model features a mouse, high-speed processing, large memory and · high-capacity storage. We have listened oo· the needs of college faculty and the result is a personal computer solution that is focused on the tasks of higher education. It means new freedom oo express your ideas more clearly, more forcefully- and - effectively. For information, visit your campus location or call, 1 800 525-4738 for a brochure. UNION COLLEGE BOOKSTORE ' \ college ·center HOURS MON. • FRI. 8:\5 · 4:30SAT. 11:00 - 3:00 TELEPHONE 51& 370-6188 FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONTACT CHARLES BOSWORTH ::::....-----'®11>\-' Personal Syslem/2 and PS/2 are regis!ernd trademarks ofln!ernatlonal Business Machines Corporation. !YI~rosoflls a reg1s!ered lrade'11ark of Microsoft Corporation. 'Windows 1s a trademark of Microsoft Corporatio1>. TooiBO<Jk IS a lrademark of Asymetn > C<irporatlon. This offer 1s ava1table only to quail lied 1nstl!ut1ons and I heir facul!y, staff andstuclents.who purchase IBM PS/2 s throughpallicipating earn pus tocattons Orders are.subjec! !o availability. IBM may Withdraw this offer a! any time·.without ~ollca. <l>IBM Corporation 1990 I ' ' l

,. I 1_ ~ f • .' ~ :Page' ·s FEATURES· J Oo-La-La Domestic Viol:ence By CARL R. FRIEDRICH, Jr. Tuesday morning. The alann clock says eight-fifty nine, one minute before ground zero. I'm thinking of whether or not I should get up now or let it go off. Not enough time, and the buzzing begins. Time to, get up. But this is not to be the typical Tuesday. Today I get a haircut. Yes it works as a great excuse for avoiding everything you're supposed to be doing. So I pulled on a sweatshirt and some chinos, and began the trek to meet the gorgeous blonde who would sculpt my hair. Yes, even soaking my sockless feet in cold puddles. along the way could not daunt my sense of mission. Finally, against the odds, 1 arrived at the very neon salon. I had entered the wqrld of beauty and sheik. But the moment I sat down and fiddled with the latest issue of GQ, I noticed a strange scene. In the parlor, which was in front of the waiting area, were two people sitting·across from each other. one laughing, the other crying. The one · laughing was expressing the glee of a successful haircut. She had her hair bobbed to the max, or to use the vernacular, a \power bob\. Being a fan of the Twenties, I could not help but to appreciate the way she looked. I began to wonder if boxers were the way to go. The other woman was crying due to the results of an unsuccessful visit. She was being conso~ed by her \hairdresser\ Ranee, wbo was dressed like a man, but sounded like a woman. The crying woman's hair brought back memories of New York City's ·punk scene. It was sort of spiked, sort of reddish~ sort of greenish. Ranee was trying to explain to her that all of the other woman at the club would be wearing the same thing this season. She wasn't buying it. Just then, my name was called, \You'll be with Ranee, Mr. Friedrich.\ \It?\ I replied, pointing at Mr. Edward Scissorhands with dye, \No with me! \I'm Ranee, too!\ As she assured me of this, I couldn't help but to notice her bod, blonde flowing Jocks, and big-eyes. It was obvi()us that whatever she did with me would be just fine. She started with the hairwash. There are few printable pleasures in this world which are satisfying as a beautiful woman mn11ing her hands through your sc·alp. Boxers indeed were not the call. After this, she rubbed my globe with a towel and we were ready to snip. I only 11eeded a little trim, and she was glad to oblige. She was a pleasant conversationalist, and like so many other hairdressers, hoped someday to open her own salon. I was only in the chair for about fifteen minutes, but in that time we cove:red more MATCH-MATES Have you ever wondered why you haven't been able to find someone who interests you? Are you sick of trying to meet someone in a drunken state? If so, then try this new innovative route. All you have to do is anonymously submit a description of yourself describing your sex, year, interest, what you look for in a mate, and your box number (no names please). Then, Match-Mates will match you with a compatible mate by giving you his or her box number. We ask that you take this seriously. If you chose to participate you are obligated to correspond by mail to your chosen mate at least once. You may meet the perfect man or woman ... so give it a try! You have nothing to lose. Send all letters to Box #2036. ·Thank you, Match-Mates ECONOMICS CLUB LUNCHEON Thursday, February 21 CC RM 302 11 :45 Pizza with Economics Faculty ground than CNN in an hour. She had her \support our troops\ button on, and hoped that the conflict would end in a hurry. She also was impressing me with her happy hour exploits at Gravel Gerties. She said that she could take two bottles of brew in her mouth at the same time. I didn't know people could do that, but I began to wonder things. She offered to show me, but at the moment, was more concerned with my hair, which was falling to the floor in greater lengths than her tales. As she was getting to the part of her story of what she did when she was really drunk, my trim session came to a finale. \Do you want some mousse or gel?\ she offered, holding bottles of each of them in her hands. \What's the difference?\ \Well the mousse makes you look, GQ, the gel make you look like Eddie IROC.\ The choice was obvious, but better than the mousse was the feel of her hands on my bead for a second .time. She assured me that this was the way to go, and I couldn't agree more. As I closed the door of the salon behind me. I wondered what had become of the crying woman. Certainly the male Ranee didn't make her feel like the female version did for me. Sure, a salon haircut costs a little more, but the perks are unreal. Don't knock it till you try it. By MEG ROSENBE,RG and CHRISTA KELLEHER Did you know that every 15 seconds in America a woman is physically abused by a boyfriend, husband or oth.er relative? And did you lrn()w that the latest statistics 1ake11 by the Coalition on the • . Homeless indicates that tbe:re are at least 206 homeless persons in Schenectady alone? v.r·.:~ didn't but after contacting the YWCA we found that we could offer our services in helping these homeless and battered women. SPAA's subcommittee on the homeless has developed a volunteer core group to work in conjunction with the YWCA in providing support for these women. Anyone who is interested in getting more involved with the Schenectady community is welcome to attend the next SPAA meeting at 7:00 on Monday in Room 205 of the College Center. SO, YOU WANT TO DO SOMETHING ABOUT THE WAR, BUT YOU DON'T KNOW WHAT TO DO? WHERE TO GO? WHO TO CALL? For a confidential conversation Counselling Center 370-6161 Sr. Joan Vlaun 370-6087 What you can Cllo to hslp US troops and ths innocent vic\iims Donate Blood, American Red Cross 381-47:33 United Nations Refugee Relief Fund (202) 387-8546 Save the Children (800) 243-5075 !For Draft counssllin@ Social Justice Center 434-4037 lo prot~st the war in ths Middls lEast The American Friends Service Committee (Quakers) (800) 257-4900 Center for Change 370-3007 Committee to end US Intervention in the Mid East 434-4037 To Enlist and which branch to go into Army 382-1741 Air Forcet 377-0282 Marines 372-4030 Navy 393-1670 To !Fils for Conscientious Objector National lnterreligous Service Board for Conscientious Objectors (NISBCO) (202) 483-4510 To address environmsniml concerns to both governmsnis Greenpeace (800} 333-7717 To rsach !President !Bush The White House (202) 456-1111 To reach your Congrsssperson Sen. Alfonse D'Amato 472-4343 Rep. Michael McNulty 465-0700 Rep. Samuel Stratton 271-0822 Rep. Gerald Solomon 587-9800 To IGatve a msssags for any US Congrasspsrson Congressional Switchboard (202} 224·3121 To reach any other governmental department Federal Information Center 463-4421 To report that the peace flame has gone out Security 370-6911 So, you still donot know who to call Dean Joseph Mammola 370-6116 Dean Trish Williams. 370-6061 Dean Fred Alford 370-6061 Grea Mishkin 370-6844

,. ·' FEATURES, Oo-La-La Domestic Violence By CARL R. FRIEDRICH, Jr. Tuesday morning. The alarm clock says eight-fifty nine, one minute before ground zero. I'm thinking of whether or not I should get up now or let it go off, Not enough time, and the buzzing begins. Time to get up. But this is not to be the t:ypical Tuesday. Today I get a haircut. Yes it works as a great excuse for avoiding everything you're supposed to be doing. So I pulled on a sweatshirt and some chinos, and began the trek to meet the gorgeous blonde who would sculpt my hair. Yes, even soaking my sockJess feet in cold puddles along the way could not daunt iny sense of mission. Finally, against the odds, I arrived at the very neon salon. I had entered the W<?rld of beauty and sheik. But the moment I sat down and fiddled with the latest issue of GQ, I noticed a strange scene. In the parlor, which was in front of the Waiting area, were two people sitting·across from each other, one laughing, the other crying. The one · laughing was expressing the glee of a successful haircut. She had her hair bobbed to the max, or to use the vernacular, a \power bob\. Being a fan of the Twenties, I could not help but to appreciate the way she looked. I began to wonder if boxers were the way to go. The other woman was crying dt:Ie ta the results of an unsuccessful visit. She was being consoled by her ''hairdresser'' Ranee, who was dressed like a man, but sounded like a woman. The crying woman's hair brought back memories of New York City's ·punk scene. It was sort of spiked, sort of reddish, sort of greenish. Ranee was trying to explain to her that all of the other woman at the club would be wearing the same thing this season. She wasn't buying it. Just then, my name was called, \You'll be with Ranee, Mr. Friedrich,\ \It?\ I replied, pointing at Mr. Edward Scissorhands with dye, \No with me! \I'm Ranee, too!\ As she assured me of this, I couldn't help but to notice her bod, blonde flowing locks; and big-eyes. It was obvious tbat whatever she did with me would be just fine. She started with the hairwash. There are few printable pleasures in this world which are satisfying as a beautiful woman running her hands through your sc'alp. Boxers indeed were not the call. After this, she rubbed my globe with a towel and we were ready to snip. I only needed a little trim, and she was glad to oblige. She was a pleasant conversationalist, and like so many other hairdressers, hoped someday to open her own salon. I was only in the chair for about fifteen minutes, but in that time we covered more MATCH-MATES Have you ever wondered why you haven't been able to find someone who interests you? Are you sick of trying to meet someone in a drunken state? .If so, then try this new innovative route. All you have to do is anonymously submit a description- of yourself describing your sex, year, interest, what you look for in a mate, and your box number (no names please). Then, Match-Mates will match you with a compatible mate by giving you h.is or her box number. We ask that you take this seriously. If you chose to participate you are obligated to correspond by mail to your chosen mate at least once. You may meet the perfect man or woman ... so giv.e it a try! You have nothing to lose. Send all letters to Box #2036. ·Thank you, Match-Mates ECONOMICS CLUB LUNCHEON Thursday, February 21 CC RM 302 11:45 Pizz11 with Economics F,cu/ty ground than CNN in an hour, She had her \support our troops\ button on, .and hoped that the conflict would end in a hurry. She also was impressing me with her happy hour exploits at Gravel Gerties. She said that she could take two bottles of brew in her mouth at the same time. I didn't know people could do that, but I began to wonder things. She offered to show me, but at the moment~ was more concerned with my hair, which was falling to the floor in greater lengths than her tales. As she was geuing to rhe part of her story of what she did when she was really drunk, my trim session came to a finale. \Do you want some mousse or gel?\ she offered, holding bottles of each of them in her hands. \What's the difference?\ \Well the mousse makes you look, GQ, the gel make you look like Eddie IROC.\ The choice was obvious, but better than the mousse was the feel of her hands on my head for a second time. She assured me that this was the way to go, and I couldn't agree more. As I closed the door of the salon behind me, I wondered what had become of the crying woman. Certainly the male Ranee didn't make her feel like the female version did for me. Sure, a salon haircut costs a little more, but the perks are unreal. Don't knock it till you try it. By MEG ROSENBERG and CHRISTA KELLEHER Did you know that every 15 seconds in America a woman is physically abused by a boyfriend, husband or other relative? And did you know that the latest statistics taken · · by the Coa:fition on the Homeless indicates that there are at least 206 homeless persons in Schenectady alone? V:\~ didn't but after contacting the YWCA we found that we could offer our services in helping these homeless and battered women. SPAA's subcommittee on the homeless has developed a volunteer core group to work in conjunction with the YWCA in providing support for these women. Anyone who is interested in getting more involved with the Schenectady community is welcome to attend the next SPAA meeting at 7:00 on Monday in Room 205 of the College Center. SO, YOU WANT TO DO SOMETHING ABOUT THE WAR, BUT YOU DON'T KNOW WHAT TO DO? WHERE TO GO? WHO TO CALL? -!For a confidential convsrsation Counselling Center 370-6161 Sr. Joan Vlaun 370-6087 What you can do to help US troops and th~ innocent vic1ims Donate Blood, American Red Cross 381-4733 United Nations Refugee Relief Fund (202) 387-8546 Save the Children (800) 243~5075 For Draft counssllin~ Social Justice Center 434-4037 To protssi the war. in the Middle IEa.st The American Friends Service Committee (Quakers) (800) 257-4900 Center for Change 370-3007 Committee to end US Intervention In the Mid East 434-4037 To !Enlist and which branch to go into Army 382-1741 Air Force 377-0282 Marines 372-4030 Navy 393-1670 To fils for Conscientious Objector National lnterreligous Service Board for Conscientious Objectors (NISBCO) (202) 483-451 0 To addrsss environmentail concerns to both govsrnmsnts Greenpeace (800) 333-7717 To reach President Bush The White House (202) 45S-1111 lf'o reach your Congressperson Sen. Alfonse O'Amato 472·4343 Rep. Michael McNulty 465-()700 Rep. Samuel Stratton 271-0822 Rep. Gerald Solomon 587-98()0 lo leave a message for any US Congrsssperson Congressional Switchboard (202) 224-3121 lo reach any other governmental department Federal Information Center 463·4421 To rsport that ths peace flame has gone out Security 370·6911 So, you still don't know who to call Dean Joseph Marnmola 370-6116 Dean Trlsh Williams. 370-6061 Dean Fred Alford 370-6061 Grea Mishkin 370-6844

Scarlet Bumper \It's like having rriy client pilloried in the courtyard every Tuesday from noon to 5~\ protests Defense Attomey Phillip Prosch. Not quite, but his client and a dozen othl\!r offenders in Sarasota County, Fla., do indeed face a modern version of public humiliation: red stickers on their cars' re~ bumpers that rea(! CONVICTED DUI. The initials announce that the miscreants have been drivin~ under the influence. County judges Frederick De Furia and Becky Titus began pasting drunk drivers with the stickers two weeks ago. During the six- month period of the sentence, offenders are permitted to drive only for work purposes. Most ordered to display scarlet bumpers have done so. But several have appealed, arguing that the judges have exceeded their sentencing authority. \We've lost our sense of shame in th-is country,\ responds Judge Titus, \and humiliation as punishment is valid.\ The Puritans would have ~pplauded. FEATURES WCIDWAMI What ,Can I Do with a Major in Modern Languages Courtesy of the Career Development Center The acronym WCIDW AMJ (pronounced \Wicked Whammy\) represents the newest addition to the career search programs at the Career Development Center. The letters stand for \What Can I Do With A Major in ..... ,\ and the program is designed to assist Union College students in identifying their career options and goals. Each term~ the CDC will work with a particular academic department to create a presentation whicb. is interesting and informative for liberal arts students. Last term's WCIDWAMI Philosophy was a great success. on Wednesday, February 27, the Career Development Center and the Modern Languages Department will co-host the second of the WCIDW AMI presentations: \What Can I Do With A Major in Modern Languages?\ An alumni panel of four Union Modern Languages majors will address such topics as: why they chose modern languages as their major; how they made career choice decisions; how they conducted the job search; and how they made decisions about graduate school. The panel will also discuss present and past career posi~ions, strategies, mistakes, regrets, future career possibilities, and advice to students. The presentation is not for modern languages majors only. Undecided students, modern languages majors, and i-nquiring minds are February 27 at 7:30 pm in the Career Development Center. If possible, sign up at the CDC in advance. WfHJ~ tr~~ COMijrNJG TO ~lUJ~ fO~ ~liJJ~ TGIF- DAVE BINDER - HUNGER WALK - MARCIE SHAPIRO - 20TH ANNIVERSARY OF COED AT UNION -COFFEE TIME- DUTCH PIPERS -GARNET MINSTRELLES AND 2 OTHER GROUPS FROM DIFFERENT COLLEGE'S. DO~'T STOP READING, WE HAVE MORE. PLAY\ TEN LITTLE INDIANS'.-BAB_aiKUSHNER- PARENTS~ WEEKEND- F112HUGH lUDLOW ~DEL fA GAMMA OLYMPICS~. \ ·. GF.lEEK WEEK- SYMPHONY- FILM SERIES PRESENTED BY SORORITIES- WOMEN'S COMMISSION AND WOMEN'S UNION. IF YOU HAVE AN EVENT THAT YOU ARE PLANNING, PLEASE STOP IN ROOM 408 OF THE COLLEGE CENTER AND LET US HELP 'IOU ADVERTISE IT. WCIDWAMI (pronounced \Wicked Wammy\) WHAT CAN I DO WITH A MAJOR IN ••. MODERN LANGUAGES? APanel Presentation Designed to Explore CAREER OPTIONS FOR • Undecided Students • Modern Language M'liors • Inquiring Minds • WEDNESDAY February 27, at 7:30 PM CAREER DEVELOPMENT CENTER Co·Sponsored By: Modem Languages Department Union College 370-62ll Career Development Cen1er Union College 370-6176 WE ARE PLEASED TO OFFER UNION COLLEGE TELECOMMUNICATIONS GIFT CERTIFICATES WHAT EVER THE OCCASION TELEPHONE GIFT CERTIFICATES ARE THE PERFECT WAY TO SAY ... *HAPPY BIRTHDAY* m®!Etr \WJfE!lJL ~©©lttl 01 1 1'M SORRY' •wELCOME BACK\ *GOOD LUCK• 01 ©~[L[L [}{](Q)lMJ[EQ} UNION COLLEGE TELEPHONE GIFT CERTIFICATES ARE AVAILABLE FOR PURCHASE AT THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS OFFICE, COLLEGE CENTER/103. FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 370..6411.

! ' CONCO.RDIENSfS, Febrr~ory .U., 1991 Page. 7 .-. New Course Announcement Instrumental Measurements and Chemical Models (Chern 20) $ A~f ~()U INIE~ISTEDIN A VAl[) Did you know that the science departl}lents at Union have added millions o.f dol,lars to their instrumentation inventory over the past half d~cade? This course, which is a new Gen Ed chemistry course to be offered in the spring term, will give non-science majors a chance to benefit kom these equipment acquisitions. These students will gain hands-on experience obtaining data from sophisticated lab instruments. They will learn how to interpret their data using simple molecular models to Hlustrate important chemical concepts. The course, which will meet o:nce a week for four hours, will be ta,ught by Professors HuN and Werner. Enrollment is limited to 15 students and will be restricted to students who have not had Chern 30. SUMME~ I~TE~N SHIP1 $ $ ~flflSSUAUff 0~ S)OJ[l~~ctll (S.[}(f)Qll[p '~::.:,. ' ·R·-··u··c· ,, ,., ~·' •. · .• '\-\' .... WILL B;>f INTI~VIEWI~G ALL .MA.JU~ S f()~ -~' -~ ',·~, •-~ ~:·'·:; ,,,·:·,,: .':'·,=·\ ;;,~::•·' :;·, ,•,•: ',:,,,: >:•Yo );•;::•; ,; ,:• . ' ·,_ '-,·~:- :' '.-~, ,·, .. , ' ' : ', ' : : ' • :. . -:f: ._· ~; ; ·:· i :' . ' ~-::.::,o,;;:,:~::. .;~- -,- : . \ '- :l: . • : . • .·, . : : . • . • CLAIM. ~~J>~ESENIAII\'II~JE~NS ... 0;::w·;j';Wtt>E'\~.~-·'···•M.M;···\.'\91J·:· w •• -- ..... ,,\,T;•NE':'···'·.·:.:·.·· .. ··,, ·:···u.: . .y: .• ···.: .... :: ... ,, \\''T··· .. ··.······· ·~·1 .. . .... .:: 0'·' .·· .· \ N' .. ·· s·· . :-··. .- . ~: -~- .,_ : - ::: - ' -~· }.~:--·~--:. ~-·- ·- -~- : -:.::· •:· ::.. . . .•:' ~: : ' .- . . . ··---. . . ... . -· AT ltlf CA~EE~ [lfVEL()I)MI:NI CENTEP UN .~::nrtay~·March 4th f~IDA'Y, MA~CH 1 SU3N Ull WITt! A ~ESUME IN TilE CI)C f:J\Y WE()NESI)A 'Y, FEEI<UA~'Y 27 at .. 8:00· p.m. · -·>€< · · ~~ef AUditorium Member§!· tt.~e· ,~eqruir~tJ to vote No Time for Lines, Hop on the nights, get some good eats without the wait. Check out the nightly specials Only a Meal Card Punch and you are outta there

Page 8 ,CONCORDIENSIS, l!ebruary 21, 1991 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES EYE ON THE W:ORLD By ED MENKE Iraq and CBS Pull Out of the Gulf War Last Friday, February 15, the day after Valentine's Day, was a day which will not live in infamy. It started out on a good note; among other things, Iraq issued a .statement which led on that the Iraqi forces would withdraw from Kuwait and that Saddarn Hussein's country would comply with United Nations Security Council Resolution #66. This resolution basically returns the Middle East to status quo, not terribly stable, but bearable. Since I was, for various reasons, awake pretty early, I tuned in Cable News Network on my cable television, willing to listen to whatever Sharyl Atkisson was willing to tell me. 8:30 a.m. I was wondering what the other networks (ABC, NBC, CBS) were saying in terms of the events in the Middle East. While CNN was starting to learn more about the twelve quadrillion conditions which the Iraqis connected to their withdrawal, ABC was just getting Peter Jennings out of bed, preparing him to go on the air ASAP and NBC was running the Today Show. No news there. Channel6, the CBS affiliate, was still asleep, showing soap operas which couldn't have even made it in the seventies, the decade of cheese. 9:00A.M. CNN didn't have Sharyl on the air, and Bobbie Batista was nowhere to be found, so I decided to check the other networks a,gain. ABC was up and running with Peter Jennings, who's good. He seems to let me know what I need to know, without being as condescending as Tom Brokaw or as dumpy as Dan Rather. NBC was hinting to Gumbel to at least mention the war, and CBS was still waiting for their national news team to wake up, but continuing with their junk-TV-a-thon all the while. 9:30 A.M. CNN had the upper hand, getting interviews from everyone and their brothers. ABC and NBC started what CNN had been doing since they washed the crust out of their eyes - going to correspondents. ABC had Ann Compton on from the White House for a good fifteen minutes, which was ten minutes longer than Jennings had questions for. NBC turned Gumbel into an anchorman pro team, with Katherine \Katie\ Couric at the Pentagon as their ace-in-the-hole. CBS must still have been stuck in traffic on the way to work, because they were working with Guiding Light. 10:00 A.M. President Bush, speaking at a Washington convention, was on all four networks, saving CBS from deciding between \Charles in Charge\ and \.Mr. Belvedere\ reruns. After President Bush called the Iraqi offer a \cruel hoax,\ ABC stayed with Jennings, NBC stayed with Gumbel, and CBS got their act together (as much as they could) by bringing in Bob Schafer, Rather's understudy. However, as the saying goes, it was \too little, too late.\ The damage had already been done. While the other three networks were concentrating on what Bush's refusal of the Iraqi offer meant, CBS was going over the events from the beginning, as much for themselves as for their viewers. 10:30 A.M. Brigadier General Richard Neal, from the United States Central Command, was on all four networks, giving CBS another chance to catch its journalistic breath. Since Neal spoke for ahnost a half hour, I had to go to class before I could see how \the story within the story\ ended. However, if you think about it, the war was won even before the fighting had started. CNN, with its Peter Arnett exclusives and top-notch reporting, is the place for those who can afford cable television. After that, ABC and NBC get the job done. ABC with Jennings and NBC usually with Brokaw. Both are smooth and have enough savvy to keep their cool in front of the camera. Even Gumbel does okay enough to be used in case of emergency without sacrificing rating points. CBS, which has not been the Nielson family's favorite as of late, proved that, in terms of their Gulf War coverage, their-letters stand for Clearly the Bottom of the Sewer. In fact, CBS ceuld come out of this war looking as bad as Saddam Hussein unless they do something soon. Actually, better make that very. soon. ••• j Three minutes a day is all we ask ... UNITED WAY - .Prague: The Paris of Eastern Europ~ By STEPHANIE DAVIS and KIMBERLEE BRODY In the fall of 1989, the world witnessed the end of the Cold War and the raising of the Iron Curtain. To eager travellers, these events signaled the opening of new lands for exploration. Krakow, Budapest and Dresden, once distant places, have all opened their gates to Western tourists. The star of The East is the Father capital of Czechoslovakia, Prague. Prague, once called the \Paris of Eastern Europe,\ is a fascinating place, rich in culture and history. Westerners who enter Prague expecting to see a grey, hopeless city filled with peasants crying into their mugs will be surprised by Prague's beauty and spirit. Forty years of Communist oppression have not affected this capital city. Prague consists of two cities: the Castle District and the Old Town. The two are separated by the Charles Bridge, a fantastic stone structure lined with statues of Czechoslovakian saints. The Castle District, located above the Old Town, is comprised of cobblestone streets, small shops and dimly lit beer callers. Overlooking all this is the impressive Castle, which remains from the days of the Austro-Hungarian Empire. Across the Charles Bridge to the left, is the Old Town and Wenceslus Square. Wenceslus Square is a quaint area, untouched by Western commer- cialism. Unlike Prague's neighbor Budapest, you will not find a McDonalds here. Instead, the square is lined with cathedrals, stone archways and crystal shops. At Christmas time, the square is crowded with street vendors selling handicrafts, food and spiced wine, musicians and busy shoppers. After a day of shopping, you can settle down in a coffee house and listen to authentic Gypsy music. Accommodations. pose a problem in Prague. The city is not yet equipped to handle ·the influx of tourists. It is impor- tant to make reservations far ahead of time to be sure to have western currency on hand to grease a few palms with. The hotels in Prague are not as modern as their Western counterparts, but what they lack in convenience they make up for in charm. Prague is a budget travellers mecca. Double .occupancy in a hotel costs twenty dollars, a three course meal including wine and tip, three dollars and a subway ticket, three cents. Unfortunately, price controls were lifted January 1, 1991 .and fifty percent inflation is expected by years end. So now is. the time to go and enjoy Prague before McDonald's and capitalism move in. WHAT CAN I DO WITH A MAJOR IN ... MODERN LAL~GUAGES? A Panel Presentation Designed to Explore CAREER OPTIONS FOR *Undecided Students* Modern Language Majors* Inquiring Minds* WED:N\\ESDAY February 27, at 7:30PM CAREER DEVELOPMENT CENTER Co-Sponsored By: Tv.Iodern Languages Department Union College 370-6211 Career Development Center Union College 310-6176 SUPPORT OF THE TROOPS IS NOT PROW AR. ... ~; :~~.._:. :<f I ' •·e'· ,. INTERNATIONAL COFFEE HOUR Thursdays from 4-5 p.m. - Piano Corner of the Dutch Hollow Sponsored by the French, German and Spanish Clubs All interested should attend. Refreshments will be provided by the Clubs

I I ,, ,i i · .. ~ INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Jiyeon Yi - A Cultural Perspective \ .~ . ~ By LARAE TUMlDAJEWlCZ Often we see something and ·think to ourselves,. \How strange that is.\ But perhaps this thing appears. odd only because of our narrow- mind.edness. This is not necessarily a bad thing for us to make such judgments; since we base our opinions on what we know is acceptable in our own closed society. It is only by keeping an open mind while exploring and exiJeriencing a different culture, that one may become more receptive and understanding, and much less critical about the things that are new to them. Jiyeon Yi, a sophomore political science major is fortunate to have a full taste of two cultures. She was born and raised in Seoul, South Korea and came to America four years ago. In those four years, her perceptions and attitudes have changed, not only about the American culture, but also about . her own trallitional Kore~ lifestyle. There are many things that Americans take for granted that are shocking to Koreans and vice versa. When Jiyeon went back to Korea in the summer of 1990., she was able to notice many of these differences. In America if you bump into someone on the sidewalk, you immediately say \excuse me.\ People in Korea do not normally do it, becau~ 'please' and 'thank you' are more or less understood. Also, th.e Koreans did not like her apparel. Shorts got a lot of attention because the traditional garments are long and unrevealing. Ripped jeans an~ sneakers without socks did not go oyer well either. Koreans do not look at it as a fashion statement; they think, \ . . . she is not in fashion - that is wh~t she has to wear.\ Students in Korea are very well dressed. Even our most conservative clothes might not be quite appropriate; they wear classy clothes, matching accessories, jewelry, etc. On her return trip, Jiyeon says, \They treated me like a bum, asking what had happened tome in America.\ Elders are held in very high esteem in Korean culture. Even college students must show respect to their upperclass peers by greeting them first when they meet. Another cultural difference is that kissing in public is acceptable in the United States, whereas in Kerea it weuld be outrageously unbelievable. In Korea people walk together as couples: girls wallc ann in ann or hold hands and the guys usually hold shoulders. \When I first came to the U.S., it was habit for me to hold my friend's hand. If I did this to a new American \American guys & girls aren't afraid to show their emotions.\ friend, they shied away saying, 'Jiyeon, people will think we are lesbians.' What are lesbians? I replied. I was shocked at what they told me.\ For a while after that Jiyeon concentrated on keeping her hands in her pockets; she felt uncomfortable walking around with her hands free. Going back to Korea, J iyeon felt uncomfortable wh~n her friends grabbed her. Korean people are very good at hiding their true feelings. In . Korea when a guy smiles at a girl, that is great, but ~he girl will not smile back. It is important to give an impression of shyness. A girl could be near a guy she likes so much, and yet the gi.ly would not even be .sure that she knew he existed. In Korea it takes months to \make the moves.\ How ever, the relationship will.be better since they both took their time - it is not just a one-night stand. Romance in Korea incorporates some very special traditions. One of the most romantic days in Korea is the first snow. When you like someone, you pray that you will be with them on this day. Then when the first snow falls you meet at a certain place and exchange a small gift with that special someone. On I:\ebruary 14th, Valentine's Day, girls give chocolate to the: guys. Then on March 14th, White Day, the gentlemen reciprocate the gift of chocolate to the ladies. Another way of showing their affection is to make 1,000 origami birds and give them to their lover. American college life was cpnfusing at first for Jiyeon. In Korean colleges and GOOD NEWS! Foreign language news programs will be shown in the Language Lab {HU QJO). All are welcome to attend. Schedule: MONDAYS, WEDNESDAYS & FRIDAYS: FRENCH 1:30PM GERMAN 3:00 PM SPANISH 4:00 PM Come and watclz tlze news! TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS: HEBREW 1:30 PM CHINESE 2:00 PM JAPANESE 3:00 PM RUSSIAN 4:00 PM News programs are also transmitted from many other countries and wi1l be recorded upon request. Faculty are welcome to bon·ow tapes. Ordinarily, they are kept in the lab for two weeks. For more injo1mation, call Carol Snyder; Language Lab Technician, X6216. LANGUAGE LAB HOURS: MONDAY-FRIDAY 8:30AM-4:30PM SUNDAY- THURSDAY 7:00PM-9:00PM universities, there are no dormitories, since most students commute. She did not know anything about fratem1ties and sororities. Looking back at her frrst days at Union she exclaims, \it was all Greek to me.\ One similarity in both American and Korean colleges is that drinking beer is a very important part of me social lives in both cultures. Too often Americans stereotype Asians as being extt:emely \smart.\ It would be more accurate to say that they come from a more demanding educational background before entering college. Korean students take their studies very seriously, taking thirteen various courses per year for all of the three high school years. But as all college students, the Koreans want to have a good time. \Screw your roommate'! is an American collegiate game whose sole purpose is for a bunch of girls and guys to get to .know each other on a one- . to-one basis. In Korea, college \Why do Americans consider it lesbian, just because two girls hold hands?\ students have something called \meetings.\ This is an organized way for girls to meet guys. The most general form of \·meeting\ involves about six to eight girls who contact a group of guys to meet at a particular place. Before the boys arrive, the girls each place one of their personal items on a table, such as a handkerchief, ring, watch, barrette, etc. Then they go off to the side. When the guys finally get there, they look over the stuff and pick out an item, and asking for the girl to whom it belongs. The couple will go off to talk and get to know each other better. Even if the guy really likes the girl, it is a rule of the meeting that he cannot ask her out on a date. The girl must say, 'see you again?' or hand him her phone number. And if they do actually go out, the man will always pay for the first date. Another form of social \meeting\ is called \007'' after the James Bond movies because the girls are in essence \spying\ on the gentlemen. The girls gather up a bunch of guys' telephone numbers. Each girl chooses one and calls him up. She tells him to be at a certain place dressed in a specific way, such as a suit, black hat, and wearing a red rose. When the guy arrives, the girl inconspicuously checks him out. If she does not like what she sees, she will just take off and stand him up. If she likes him, she will introduce herself to him. Then they will decide to go for pizza, McDonalds, to a mall, or to a disco. \Meetings\ are a very important way for guys to meet girls in Korea; a guy could not just walk up to a girl on the street and introduce himself because Korean girls would think he was crazy. Those of you who have gone to a term abroad have probably seen or experienced things that would be totally absurd in American society. Whereas for the people involved in the event, it has become a cultural aspect of their way of life. Only when one keeps an open mind and looks upon these events from the proper cultural perspective, can one fully appreciate the importance of such traditions. Der rote Strumpf(The Red Stocking - In German (1981, 92 min., color) Directed by Wolfgang Tumler with Inge Meysel, Julie Tum1er, Ulrike Bliefert. Mari is a good nine-year-old girl; she is pretty bright, a little nosy and comes from a rather intact young family. Mrs. Panacek, seventy years old, is a little confused in her mind, but nevertheless, her senses are alert and sometimes she is even cheeky. She lives in an old-age horne where she was put by her son-in-law. Mari noticed Mrs. Panacek because of her wearing two different ki.·.~ds o;: stockings, among which was a red one. The two are going to spend a \<leek together during which Mrs. Panace,- run:· away from the home. Initially, Mari hides her at her parents' home; both are then strolling through the city, looking with eyes which only old people and children may have. After initi.al fears, Mari's parents recognize that the encounter is equally important for Mari and Mrs, Panacek and this is why they help in seeing to it that Mrs. Panacek is reintegrated into the society. Monday cc 406 Feb. 25 7:30 p.m. Yes! l'U help save endangered wildlife wherever it is threatened, whenever it is threatened. 1 have enclosed a check to World Wildlife Fund for$ -----· Mr./Mrs. -------------- MissiMs. Address--~---------- City _______ _ State _____ Zip----- Pl.- omdooe your Cill-dedUtlible dmk olon1 with lhil Corm a!l<l return to' Wodd Wildlife Fund 1250 Twenty-Fourth Street, NW Washington, DC 20037

•. Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, February 21, 1991 ENVIRONMENTAL \t\btth Smiing. National Energy Policy: A Golden Opportunity Missed? By ALAN F. EISENBERG With our attention focused on the Persian Gulf, lawmakers in Washington are not clearly seeing an opportunity to permanently alter the United States' dependence on foreign oil and fossil fuels in general. This possibility the implementation of a national energy policy -- is not a new idea, as there have been calls for one ever since the 70s oil crisis. Advocates argue a Dational strategy is needed to speH out how the US will power it-s in~ustries, homes. transportation, and everything far and between. problem manifested itself to the majority of Americans frrst with the Arab Oil Embargo. In the Persian Gulf, we are seeing it again: fighting a war to protect a national interest; i.e., the energy source for nearly all our transportation. (increasing energy efficiency, securing future energy supplies, improving energy producing technology, and respect for the environment) are to be implemented using free market mechanisms which emphasize production., rather than stress the need for conservation and the mandating of specific achievable goals. What's worse, the President has chosen a path guided by ''The Administration must see this policy as an ideal ..• to be chased after over the long term.\ not ~:tddress these flaws. First, conservation is better than production. Energy is saved by limiting demand or increasing efficiency. A simple increase in automobile fuel economy is one method to reduce consumption. A recently introduced Senate bill proposes to raise the average fuel economy by 40% in the year 2()01. This would save 2.8 million barrels of oil per day, approximately four times the total amount imported from Iraq and Kuwait prior to the invasion of Kuwait .and eight -times the amount expected to be produced by drilling in the ANWR. The Administration opposes this bill and does not . .include. llDY fuel economy Why do we need an energy policy? Why do we need to mandate which fuels -are Long before the average American had heard-of Saddam Hussein, the US was pursuing this goal. In April 1989, Secretary of Energy James Watkins announced t~e Department of Energy would develop a national energy strategy to be used as a guide for future policy. The fruits of the\ Department's labor are currently being peddled around Washington, as the draft version of this strategy is being edited by the ·President and his cabinet (as wen as other Federal ag~ncies such as the Office of Management and Budget). It is expected that ----------- : ptovis-ions . in .. its .national · appropriate ·for the US? The reasons are clear. It is necessary to utilize. available' energy 1 sources to provide an effiCient : energy b'ase 'which is -both\ ~ econo.Jlli_~ally and ~ environmentally sustainable. ~ The United Slates ·is not in this· ·. position, currently. Energy ; dependence has long been a_ ,· thorn in our side .. mhis' is '-dUe : to the problems of price hikes (usually through ·oPEC) or supply interruptions. This · PJ!esident Bush will submit the final version to Congress before the end of the month. These drafts show some significant flaws in the Administration's view of a national energy P9licy. The propoSed policy currently calls for a four-pronged policy, whose goals are vague at best. In addition, these four aims reactionary think-ing, as he asserts the need for further oil exploration in the Arctic National Wil~life Refuge and . expanded production and licensing for new nuclear facilities. The implementation of a national energy policy is an ideal opportunity to rethink some of our nation's shortcomings with respect to its use of fossil fuels and its pollution of the environment. Bush's initial proposal does Apple introduces the ~laclntnsh LC. If you thought that finding a color Macintosh® system you could afford was just a dream, then the new, affordable Macintosh LC is a dream come true. 1he Macintosh LC is rich in color. Unlike many computers that can display only 16 colors at once, the Macintosh LC expands your palette to 256 colors. It also comes with a microphone and new sound-input technology that lets you personalize your work by adding voice or other sounds. like every Madntosh computer, the LC is easy to set up and easy to master. And it runs thousands of available applications that all work in the same, consistent way-so once you've learned one ptogram, you're well on yom; way to learning them all. The Macintosh LC even lets you share infor- mation with someone who uses a different type of computer -thanks to the versatile AppleG SuperDrive~ which can read from and write to Macintosh, MS-DOS, OS/2, and Apple II floppy disks. · Take a look at the Macintosh LC and see what it gives you. Then pinch yourself. It's better than a dream- it's a Macintosh. UNION COLLEGE BOOKSTORE COLLEGE CENTER HOURS MON. - FRI. 8:45 • 4:30 SAT. 11:00 • 3:00 TELEPHONE 518 370-6188 FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONTACT CHARLES BOSWORTH energy policy. Clearly a mandated increase in fuel economy is neces~ary. A second issue clouded over by the Bush :proposal is the use of renewable fuel sources versus increasing both oil and nuclear energy production. Renewable energy sources (su.ch as solar-and wind power) presently only supply about 8% of national energy demand. Rather than increase nuclear production which faces public u.ncertainty and drawn out debates over plant siting, the US should invest in renewable tec-hnology. Renewable technology is an excellent energy source, with virtually no pollution or. other environmental damage (with hydroelectric being an exception). Over the last decade, the US has cut its spending on research and development in this field from $709 million to $115 million. Perhaps more ominous is the increasing dominance of foreign countries in this field. Less than fou.r years ago, the US led all countries in this growing market; today US systems account for less then one-third of the total market share. It is time to re-invest. ·The simple implementation of a national energy strategy is not en&u gh. The Administration must see this i>olicy as an ideal, something to be chased after over the long term. This implies a need foi futuristic thinking, and the realization that the choices one makes today will affect action~ taken many years down the road. If President Bush does' not choose a progressive nationai energy policy' he will miss a golden opportunity to reform our country. a upcm I Simpu:y I tzans!orm GExamples or([;,J y+4y) =L(Bl o- ±s·J+ 2 YQ-l,o)+s 2 · j= 1 0 -Y(l,o)-SY(o,o)+s 2 Y ,_ tl® The power to be your best~ .01990 Apple Computer, Inc Apple, tho Apptotogo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks ol Apple Computer, Inc. SuperDrlve and \Tho power to be your best\ are.trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. MS·DOS Is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation. OS/21s a registered trademark of lnlernaUonal Bllslness Machines Corporallorl.

CONCORIJJENSIS, February 21, 1991 Page 11 V\brth Saving. Why All T'he Campus Junk-Mail? By FRANZ T. LITZ, Environmental Editor Junk Mail. We all get it, by the truckloads every year. We don't usually ask for it, we don't usually want it, and we usually just throw it away. What's worse: most of it comes with return envelopes, and is printed on paper not able to be recycled through our campus program. Union College students, faculty and family all have the same problem. What do we db with all this junk? How do we stop it from pouring endlessly into our mailslots, and ultimately into our landfills? The ftrSt step ought to be taken on campus,· since the majority · of unwanted mail floating around the mail room is campus mail. The next step is attempting to deal with the pesty junkmailers: off campus, which probably requires more effort, but can be done. What junk mail does one find floating in the mailrooin? Campus mass mailings come in every form. Some are tiny slips of paper packed with information, others are full sheets with relatively little information on them. Some are folded and stapled to maintain confidentiality, others come with bulky envelopes. Some are designed to minimize waste, others are sent with little or no regard for the solid waste problems facing us. At a high ranking liberal arts college like Union, one might expect a more responsible atmosphere. After surveying the junk mail coming through the mail slots for the last two weeks, it became apparent to me who some of the problem junk mailers are on campus. Student groups, it seems, are more likely to conserve paper, for whatever reason. (One big reason is probably a financial one). College offices, like the Career Development Center, Dining Services, or the Admissions Office, tend to send the most bulky mailings. Memorandums circulating among ihe faculty were also found to be sometimes short on words, yet long on paper. Some effort needs to be maae to control this paper mill, and to reduce the amount of paper used. The recycling program should not be viewed as the single answer to our campus paper glut. Students need to pressure administrative offices to join the paper conservation effort. Offices should reassess their mass mailings. Judging by the number of CDC updates on the maih:~m -floor, for example, it might be safe- to say that many~students don't read or want them. Why aren't students who a):~ interested required to sign up in the CDC to receive mailings? Although this may not be possible in all cases, reduciilg the amount of unsolicited mail on campus must be our goal. What of the unwanted mail c(i)n:mg from sources outside the campUs? The buying and selling of mailing lists at specific segm~hts of the population. Every student at Union is bound to be 'ibn several of those lists, enabling her/him to receive mailings on spring break tips, pre-approved credit cards, computers, and like everyone else - sweepstakes. This unsolicited garbage cannot always be called off, but much of it can be. If you want ·to receive fewer unsolicited letters, postcards (and telephone calls) write to the Direct Marketing Association at 11 West 42nd Street, P.O. Box 3861, New York, NY 10163 and ask to have your name rem·oved from company mailing (and phone lists). If you tend to receive a great deal of junk-mail from any given company, you may want to write directly to that company. Aside from stopp_ing the annoying flow of advertisements, you'll help stop the flow of waste-paper. In its transformation to a more environmentally aware and responsible campus, Union needs a greater .effort on the part of administrative and faculty offices to reduce paper flow. The problem of junk-mail is just one example. Reducing the number of class handouts, in addition to a more efficient layout on those that are handed out, would also help. Junk- . · mail from off campus can be reduced by students and faculty alike. We've always known that unsolicited mail is junk. It's time we started remembering that it also becomes OJll' garbage. ENVIRONMENTAL The Mine:rva Hour presents Founders Day · and Presentation of the Gideon Hawley Teaching Awards featu1ing John H. Ostrom '51 Professor of Geology and Curator of Paleontology, Yale University \Planet Earth -- Endangered Species or Paradise Lost?\ Ostrom's theories and the studies on which they are based have spurred a wealth o:f discussion, research and publication in the field of paleontology. He has been a leading proponent, for example, of the theory that birds are the most logical descendants of the dinosaurs. He was featured recently on a NOVA program on PBS devoted to that top.ic. His honors include the Humboldt Medal from West Germany, an honorary degree from Yale, and the Hayden Award from the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences. He is to receive an honorary Doctor of Science degree from the College at the ceremony. Thursday, Feb. 28, 11:30 a.m. Memorial Cha:pel Siena College is sponsoring its Second Annual Philosophy Conference for Undergraduates The topic this year is Philosophy and the Environment The Union Philosophy Forum is providing a van for those interested in going The Van will be leaving from the Philosophy Department at 9:00 a.m. on Sat., 2/23 Amanda Aronoff, a student at Union is ··-presenting a paper and the Key Speaker, Dr. William Vitek, is a Union Alumnus· All interested in coming Please contact: Charles Belden or Dan Milsky 370-6884 Multicultural Table Feb. 21th Topic: GHANA in a Changing World Economy Speaker: Professor Randolph Quaye .Table open from. 11 :30-1 :30 Talk: 12:30 in Upper Class Dining Rm CC

~---······················································································· I I I . I I I I i UNION COLLEGE i i . FINAL EXAM SCHEDULE ! ! 1990-91 WINTER TERM i I I I I I I IMPORT ANT: This exam schedule is primarily for regular, \day\ undergraduate courses. Wednesday, March 20 • 9:00 ·11 :00 AM I I A separate schedule for Graduate and Continuing Studies courses will be announced, and BI0-018-01- Introductio;n to Biology II- K. Willit'u:ns/M. Frohlich- SSCI 016 I I students in \Section 51 or 52\ courses should be alert for the announcement of the exam BI0-150-01- Evolutionary Biology- J. Boyer- BAll.. 207 I time for those courses. CER-022-01- Civil Engineering Materials- G. Gifford- BUTR 109 1 I . . . . . . . . CHM-040-01- Quantitative Chemistry- R. Schaefer· SSCI 014 1 I ConfliCtS m ex:am.mations should be reported to Mrs. Peck m the Office of the RegiStrar CHN-Ql)l2·01 • Basic Chin. · .. ese II. M. Ctien a HUMN 213 . I not Inter thM. Frtdny, F@bruary 22nd. H:HR-04g-Ol - Semiconductor Devices & Circuits -B. Hassib - BAIL 102 I Examinations will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code of the EER- 144 - 01 -Coll!munica~on Systems I· M. Rudko- SSCI -012 II I buildings to be used. EGL-019-01- Major English Authors I- B. Mciver- HUMN 110 1 . . . ELL-049-01 - Nuc~ear Technology-~- Sh~ebrook -NWSE 222 I ARTS- A:ts Bwlding NWSE- North Wing, S!E Center FRN-010-01- Bas1c French I- J. Wemstem ... HUMN 116 I BAIL -Bailey Hall PYCH - Psychology Building FRN-011-01 - Basic French II - E. Kirk - HUMN 112 I I BUTR- Butterfie~~ Hall . . SSCI. Social Science Building GE0-010-01 -Physical Geology ... R. Gildner- BUTR 201 I I HUMN- Humantties Building STZH- Steinmetz Hall GER-010-01- Basic German I- D. Lund- HUMN 117 1 I GRK-011-01- Principles of Greek II- C. Sorum. HUMN 119 1 I Monday, March 18 - 9:00-11:00 AM · HST-049-01 -Europe Between Two Wars- -E. Hansen- SSCI 103 1 I ARS-040-01 -Introduction to Music, Part I -H. Wilson- ARTS 215 JPN-121-01 -Intermediate Japanese IT- R.A. Starts- HUMN 014 1 I BI0-016-01 -Introduction to Biology I- R. Olberg/W. Roth- SSCI 016 MER-062-01 - Thennal Energy Conversion -F. Wicks NWSE 210 I I BI0-170-01- GeneralEndoctrinology- G. Butterstein -BAIL207 MTH-010-01- Calculus I- T.Bick- BAIL 100 1 .. I CER-131-01 -Structural Steel- P. Weiss- BUTR 201 MTH-028-01- Probability- K. Rosenthal- BAll.. 104 1 CHM-150-01- Physical Chemistry I- D. Hayes- NWSE 201 PHY-011-01- Introduction to Physics I- K. Schick- NWSE 112 I 1 CHN-011·01 ·Basic Chinese II .. M. Chen. PYCH 201 PHY-011-03- Introduction to Physics I- D. Camarrere- NWSE 112 I I . csc~Oll-01 -Programming For Soc. Sciences- J. Casdeberry- STZH 106 PHY-013-01 .; IntrodUCtion to Physics n- A. Anderson- NWSE 114 I EER-133-01- Communication Circuts- E. Hassib -NWSE 222 PHY-052-01 .. Classical Mechanics- G. Reich- SSCI 105 I I ELL-012-01- Homes, Bldgs. & Egr. Principles -li.G. Harlow- BU'IR 204 PHY-132-01- Electromagnetism II- J. Newman- NWSE 303 1 I FRN-120-01-Intermediate French I- L. Day- HUMN 019 PSY-031-01 -Abnormal Psychology- K. Olsen- PYCH 102 1 I GE0-011...()1 -The Earth & Life Through Time- J. Garver- BUTR 109 RUS-011-01 -Basic Russian n- M. Rudko- HUMN 115 . I 1 GE0-042-01 • Tec!Dnics. J. Garver- BUTR .106 SOC-010-01 - Introduc?on to S~iology - R. Quaye - SSCI 104 I 1 GER-011-01- Baste German IT- D. Lund- SSCI 213 SPN-120-01- Intennediate Spanish I- C. Qualtere- HUMN 114 1 HST-047-01- England to 1688- S. Sargent SSCI 012 I I HST-057-01 -Modem Jewish History- S. Berk- SSCI 1103 . I LAT-011-01- Principles of Latin II -1. Marincela -IRJMN 119 Wednesday, Marc~ 20 - 1:00m3:~0 PM . 1 I MER-022-01- Materials Science & Engineering- F. Milillo- BAll..104 ARS-071-0 1 - Medieval Art_& Architecture -''P. Phelan- ARTS 215 1 I MER-041-01 -Engineering Design n- H. Lyons NWSE.210 BI0-066-01 - Sex & S~xuality - F. Lambert- SSCl 016. ... . I I MTH-018-01 - Intro to Logic & Set Theory~ s. Niefeld ... BAIL 106 CER-151-01 • Hydmultcs - T. Jewell- ~U'IR 300 & BUTR 106 I MTH-030-01- Ordin Differential Equations- J. Muckenfuss- BAIL 201 CLS-030-01- Greek & ~om~ Drarna.I? Trans.- J. Scullion- HUMN 117 I I PHL-Ollb-01 - Philosophical Classics II- R. Baker/'S. Kaminsky • HUMN 114 EC0-034-01 - lnU:O to Fm~ctal AnalysiS- G. Grover- BAll. 201 I 1 PHL-020-01 -Classical Logic- B. Petrie- HUMN 112 EGL-022-01 -MaJor ~encan Authors- N. Shour- HUMN 116 I PHY -010b-01 - Intro to Mechanics n - s. Maleki - NWSE 112 GER-120-01 - Intermediate German I - K. Hamm-Ehsani- HUMN 119 I I PHY-013-02- Introduction to Physics n- ~·Schl,ck- ' NWSE 114 HST-07 1 -01- ~odem History ofMiddle.East- s. Berk_- SSCI 104 I I PHY-044-01- Introduction to Astronomy- T. Mead- NWSE 116 HST-129-01- Nme:teenf:b Cent. I~tell. History w A. Ettling- SSCI 103 1 I PSC-030-01- Modem.Political Thought- J.C. Laursen- SSCI 104 :MER-Oll-01- Engmeenng GraphicS I- H. Lyons- NWSE 210 1 I PSC-084-01- Political Sociologsr- A. Marchant~Shapiro- SSCI 112 MER-026-01- Thettr.odynamics- C:S. Redd~- NWSE ~10 . 1 I PSY-010-03- A First Course in Psychology- L. Stanhope- PYCH 113 MER-164-01- Solar Energy Analysts & Destgn- R. Wtlk- NWSE 116 1 1 I PSY 020-01 ·Statistical Methods in Psychology- H. Foiey- PYCH 213 MTH-148-01- Differen~al Geome~- A. Seiken- ~AIL 205 1 RUS-121-01 - lntermedite Russian IT- N. Jemakoff- HUMN 113 PHY-011-02- lntroduc~on to PhySics I-N. Kalyamwalla- NWSE 112 I 1 SOC-124-01- Political Sociology. A Marchant-Shapiro- SSCI 112 PHY-013-03- Introduction to Physics II- R. Khosropour- NWSE 114 I I SPN-010~01 - Ba:si.c SpMislll- c. <llnllteN .. :iil'Zll Ul~ PHY-042-01 -Great Ide_as of Modem ~hysics- R. Ma~ahiz- SlZH 106 1 • . SPN-011-01. Basic Spanish IT. T. Toseano .. BAIL 31i PSY-046-01- Introd~ction to Psychob10logy- C. Wetsse- PYCH 113 I SPN-141-01- Voices of Hispanic Womlen- P. Moyhano -OLDC PSY-050-01- Ed~auonal Psychology 1~ L: Stanhope- PYCH 213 I I SOC-138-01- Africa: Pol. Econ. & Soc. Ltfe- R. Quaye- S.SCI 012 I 1 . SPN-121-01- Intermediate Spanish II- P. Moyano- HUMN 114 - Mnn.-la ... u ...... l. 1Q- 1oftft,.._\l.ftft Dll..l\ SPN-136-01-IntrotoLatinArnericanTheater-TTnRr~nn-HITMNOU I It'd = (JQ ~ .... ~ < ~ g ~ b ~ ~ ~ t:'J .. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ II... ~ 1.1..1 ~ ......

KU::>-IL.l-Ul- N. JemaKorr- .t;LUMN 11.1 PHY-013-03- II.- I SOC-124-01 - Pohtical Soc10logy - A Marchant-Shaptro - SSCI 112 PHY -042-01 - Great Ideas of Modern Physics - R. Magahiz - S1ZH 106 I 1 SPN.;Ql0-01- Ba:s~c SPM!Slll- C. Qqf;l\lef<( • SJZ:P Ul~ PSY-046-01- Introd~ction to Psychobiology- C. Weisse- PYCH 113 I . SPN-011-01- Baste Sparush II- T. Toscano· BAIL ~1Z PSY-050-01- Educational Psychology 1- L. Stanhope- PYCH 213 I I SPN-141-01 -Voices of Hispanic Wom1en- P. Moyhano -OLDC SOC-138-01 -Africa: Pol. Econ. & Soc: Life-R. Quaye- SSCI 012 1 I SPN-121-01- Intennediat~ Spani~h II- P. Moyano- HUMN 114 . 1 I · Monday, March 18 _ 1:00o-J:OO PM SPN-136-01- Intro to Lattn AmencanTheater- T. Toscano- HUMN 014 I I ACC-010-01 -Financial Accounting I - W. Lewis - NWSE 116 I • ARS-070-01 -European Art: 1640 to 1850- S. Warren- ARTS 210 Thursday, March 21 - 9:00-11:00 AM I 1 1 · BI0-011-01 -Topics in Contemp. Biology- K. Williams- BAlL 207 MTH-012-01 -Calculus II- W. Stone- BAIL 207 I BI0-062-01 -World Agricul~e- C. George- NWSEJ 12 . . MTH-012-02- Calculus II- K. ~immennann- BAIL 102 I I BI0-162-01 - Intr<? to ~eurob1o~o~- R. Ol~g- NWSE 114 ¥TH-012-03 -Calculus II- S. Perera- HUMN 019 1 I CHM-014-01 - Sctentific Creativity - C. Scaife- SWSE 219 MTH-012-04 - Calculus II .. S. Perera- HUMN 019 1 I CSC-118-01- ~gical Desi~ ofDigi~ Comp._- C. Trav;er ~ NWSE 222 MTH-014-01- Calculus III- V. Ferlini- BAIL 106 I 1 EC0-031-01- Microeconollllc AnalySis- S. Ymsawams- HUMN 019 MTH-014·02- Calculus Ill- J. Barbanel- BAIL 104 1 EC0-036-'01 - Fin~cial ~ets- ~~-Lewis- SSCI 014 MTH-020-01 - Math Methods Soc~al Sc~ences I- J. Muckenfuss- BA1L 201 I I EER-118-01 - Logtcal Dest~ of Dtglfal Comp. -C. Traver- NWSE 222 MTH-020-02- Math Meth<Xls Soc~ Sc~ences I- K. ~osenthal- BAIL 205 I I EGL-076-01 - Modern Amencan Novel- F. Gado - HUMN 112 MTH-020-03 - Math Methods Soctal Sctences 1- A. Prindle - HUMN 115 I · ESC-013-01 - High Level Lang. Programming- N. Mazur- BUTR 204 MTH-020-04 -Math Methods Social Sciences I- A. Pnndle - HUMN 115 I I ESC-015~01 -Numerical Methods & FORTRAN ... L. Almstead- STZH 106 MfH-020-05- Math Methods Social Sciences I- W. Z.wic. ker. -BAIL 203 I LAT-141-01- Roman Historiography- J.R. Lenz- HUMN 119 MTH-040-01- Applied Linear Algebra-S. Niefield- BAIL 100 I :MLT -019-01 -Modern Japan in Novel & Filin - R. A. Starrs- HUMN 015 MTH-040-02- Applied Linear Algebra- W. Stone- BAIL 207 . I I PSC-013-01- Intro to Political Thought- C. Brown- SSCI 112 1 I PSY-162-01- Intro to Neurobiology- R. Olberg- NWSE 114 . 21 1 00 3 00 p·M 1 I Thursday, March - : • : ACC-010-01- Financial Accounting I- D. Arnold- BAIT. 312 I I Tuesdayt March 19 • 9:00-11:00 AM ARS-078-01 - American Art-S. Warren- ARTS 215 1 I BI0-023-01 -Cell Biology - L. Fleishman/F. Lamben- SSCI 016 CER-015-01 - Civil Eng. Computer Program - Y. Lee- BUTR.102 & S1ZH 110 1 I BI0-154-01- Developmental Biology- B. Boyer- NWSE 114 EC0-042-01- Macroeconomic Theory & Policy- E. Foster- HUMN 115 1 I CER-128-01 Structural Analysis- M. Mafi- BUTR 109 EC0-056-01- Economy of Japan- B. Reynolds- HUMN 110 1 I CER-165-01- ~ystems Analysis & Design- T. Jewell- NWSB 106 EC0-129-01- Modeling& Sim ofEco Pot.:cies- E. Motahar- SSCI 112 I I CLS-021-01- History of~reece- J.~. Le_nz- HUMN 019 EC0-137-01- Econ Perspectives on Pub Pol- T. McCarty- BAIL 106 1 CSC-012-01 - Programmmg for Natr 1 Sciences - L. Almstead- S'IZH 106 EGL-022-02 - Major American Authors - B. MacDonald- HUMN 117 I 1 EC0-140-01- LaborBc~nomics- ~·Prosper- BAIL 207 Pin...-144-01- Political Philosophy- R. Baker- HUMN 112 I 1 BC0-145-01- Managenal Ec.onom~cs- ~-Kenney- SSCI 010 PHY-120-01- Astsronomy & Astrophysics- R. Alpher- NWSB 112 I I EER-143-01- Electro~agnettc En!?fleenng I- Y. Chang- NWSE 116 PSY-010-01 .. A First Course in Psychology- S. Benack .. PSYCH 102 I ESC-010-01- Mech~cs I- P. WeiSs- ~UTR. 300 . PSY-038-01- Developmental Psychology- V.Dawson- PSYCH 113 I I ESC-030-01- Mechamcs of Deform Solids- R. Eggert- NWSE 210 PSY-048-01- Psychotherapy I-T. Dowling- PSYCH 213 1 I FRN-149-01- Special Topics In French Lit.- E. IGtk- HUMN 014 1 I GE0-031-01 -Mineralogy- G. Shaw- BUTR 201 I HST-013-01- History of U.S. to' Civil War-T. Meade- SSCI 103 Thursday, March 21 • 4:30-6:30 PM . I 1 HST -013-02 - History of U.S. to Civil War - A. Ettling - SSCI 104 CSC-014-01 - Information Processing - D. Cossey - STZH 106 I 1 HST-014-02- Hist. of U.S. Since Civil War- A. Peffer- SSCI 012 I I HST-035-01- History of Europe I- E. Hansen- HUMN 114 I HST-035-02- History of Europe I-S. Sargent- HUMN 112 Friday~ March 22. - 9:00-11:0~ A~ . 1 I HST-036-02- History of Europe II- S. Berk- SSCI 014 CER-152-01- Envrr~nmental Engmeenng I ... P. Snow- B~ 300 I I HST-048-01 -Britain 1688 to the Present- J. Finkelstein- BAIL 201 CSC-040-01 - ~hme & ~ssembly Language- F. Fredenghi- S'IZH 106 I I MTH-101-01 ·Advanced Calculus fot Engrs. - J. Barbanel- BAIL 102 EGL-022-03 -MaJor Amencan Authors- N. Shour .. HUMN 114 I MTH-140-01- Linear Algebra- K. Zimmermann- BAIL 203 EGL-027-01- Comedy- P. Heinegg- HUMN 115 I 1 PHY-134-01- Physical Optics- C. Jones- NWSE 303 GER-135-01- Wo~en in ~erman Litera~- S. Kellenter- HUMN 1~3 I 1 PSC-047-01- Law & Public Policy .:.J. Board- HUMN 115 GER~149-01- Special Topics In Gennan L1t.- S. Kellenter- HUMN 113 1 I PSY-030-01 -Personality- K. DeBono- PYCH 102 HEB-011-01 - B~ic Hebrew ll- D. Heckelman- HU.M:N' 213 1 I PSY-034-01- The Psychology of Language- T. D'Andrea- PYCH 113 JPN-011-01- Baste Japanese II- Y. Nakagawa- HUMN 117 1 JPN-011-02- Basic Japanese II- Y. Nakagawa- HUMN 117 . 1 I PHL-032b-01 - Modem Philo: Leibniz-Kani - S. Kaminsky -lillMN 112 I Tuesday, March 19 • 1:00-3:00. PM . . ... . . . PSC-064\'01- Consressional Politics- C. Tidmarch- SSCI 110 I 1 CHM·OI0-01 • Fundamental Che~rry I • R. Sil~ersllllth • BAa 207 PSY ·024·01 • social Psychology • K. DeBono .. PYCH 102 I I CHM-010-02- Fundamental Chem~stry 1- C. S~oufe- ~An. ~07 PSY-032-01- Sensation & Perception .. H. Foley- PYCH 113 I I CHM-010-03- Fundamental Chem~try I- R. Stlv~m1th- BAIL 207 RUS-131-01- Survey of Russian Literature I-N. Jernakoff- HUMN 119 I I CHM-012-01- Fundamental ChemiStry II- C. Wetck -SSCI 016 1 CHM-012-02- Fundamental Chemistry II- J. Anderson- SSCI 016 I I CHM-012-04- Fundamental Chemistry II- C. Weick- SSCI 016 THE FOLLOWING DAY COURSES WILL HAVE A COMMON EXAM I I CHM-032-01 -Organic Chemistry II- L. Hull- BUTR 204 WITH THE EVENING DIVISION SECTION: I CHM-032-02- Organic Chemistry II- K. DeJesus- BUTR 2()4 . I 1 EC0-012-01 - Introduc~on to Econom~cs- L. Cavalluzzo- HtTMN 114 Monday, March 18 - 4:30-6:30 PM . I I EC0-012-02- Introduction to Economics- L. Cnvalluzzo- HUMN 114 . CSC-135-01 & 51_ Operating Systems_ G. Williams_ BAIL 102 I I EER-031-01 -Electrical Circuits & Devices I - C. Traver- HUMN 019 1 I EER-031-02- Electri~ Circuits & Devices I- Y. Chang- HUMN 019 Tuesday, March 19 _ 4:30-6:30 PM I I FRN-121-01- Intennediate French II- C. Laparra- HUMN 014 CSC-140-01 & 51 -Theory of Computing- D. Hannay -NWSE 116 I FRN-131-01- Survey ofFrenchLiterature I- C. Laparra- HUMN 014 1 I I I . ·---···············-··---······················-···········································' ' ..... jP tJ; ~· ~a ~~ ~ ~ ~ :g . ~: r;.,:. ... ·..: ~ ~.;; e:-. -,;.. ~ '<.0 ~ \-\ .. ~.; \\\'\ 1¢. \C .... -o !1>- (JC) ro ~. CM

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, Febru,ary 21, 1991 <nnnrorbtrnsis -----Founded at Union College 1877------ A Step in the Right Direction The recent policy fonned by the Administration regarding the removal of the sisters of Sigma Delta Tau from their current house at South College, and the long-awaited allocation of a house for the sisters of Gamma Phi Beta is a positive response to an increasingly problematic housing situation. Upon actual implementation of the policy ne~t ye~, the sisters of SDT will be given a much larger house m wl:uch to live. When one considers the substantial number of pledges who rushed SDT a few weeks ago, the fact that a greater number of sisters will now be able to live together is a definite advantage. This point alone is something that Gamma Phi Beta has been trying to achieve for years. There does exist however some tension concerning the means by which the plan was formed. The move appears to be the work of members of the Administration only rather than the work and approval of the appropriate committees. For example, ~e decision did not pass through the channels of the Student Affatrs Council and the announcement came without warning to members of the affected sororities. And though the move appears at least in its early stages to be a good one, it is not possible, nor should it be expected to be possible, to view future proposals without a certain degree of apprehension. In this respect. the decision was definitely not a great poblic relations move f()r the Administration. With respect to the Administration's decision to give Gamma Phi Beta Hickok House,. the positive implications to tbis move are obvious and something that this newspaper has advocated from the beginning of the discUssion. The question then remains what to do with the portio~ of South College which will no longer house SDT. Suggestions have been made to make the section a part of the College's no so successful •Living and Learning program. It has been successfully argued that to house freshmen in Hickok Honse which is for the most part out of the mainstream of ·freshmen travels, is defeating the pUipOse of the program. It is . feas~le then to consider moving this particular theme housing mto South College. The location is perfect and the accommcdation would be excellent. An additional alternative to consider would be to move the newly proposed Modern Languages house int South College. Or one might also consider bringing back 2 t • s 0 1 Club and housing it there. Essentially, the possiblities for the area are endless. It is als important to remember that Maxcy Hou~e .at this .~me stil remains vacant. There are now then two bUildings wrutmg to be used in some fashion for next year. Take this opportunity t make suggestions for their use before that opportunit 0 l 0 y disappears. Problems Without Easy Solutions er Union is sexist. We need to change the school motto in ord to hope to reverse twenty years of discrim~a~on to ~o?len. re The administration is out to get fraternities, or 1s It? Whe would you find out the answer to this q_uestion? Something being done about residential and social life. Good or bad~ nobod knows. We got those surveys in our mailboxes but we don know who's behind them, and then who's behind those people. is y 't a The Nott is being fixed. It is being altered? Will it b~ theater? Who decides, anyway? Where is all of the money gom g to come from? ns If fraternities are thrown off campus, then alumni donatio will suffer. If fraternities are thrown off campus, then alum ni donations will increase. to ot Students need interest-group housing, and they will flock fill it with groups of all of their friends. Smith House was n exactly overwhelmed with applications l~t year. Upperd~ssm have to live on campus. Gamma Pht Beta cannot hve en on campus. . . , Students need more of a say m the dec!stons that the schoo 1 make.;;. Nohody listens to what the students say anyway~ ! :r11nn need\ to attract a d1ffercnt type of student. UniOn nee to drop the SAT reqUirement Umon must keep up with It<; riv Jn<,tltullOn'>. We need to he ourselves and malflt.am our ow ds al n cnur-.c., regardlcs-. of what our competitors are doing. cd All studcnls need to take a tcnn ahroad in order to he prcpar to meet the demands of a ~hrinking world. Engineers need to tak extra V>ur'.es to meet the demands of a technological world. e Lninn ts a recycling cnmmunity. lf your paper is not Ia pnnted, you might not he taken so seriously, La~r pnnt.cd pa scr per c.annot he recycled. 1; n ion <;,tiJ(knts need to he more politically active. They ne to he stimulated intellectually. There 1~ never any controversy campus, and when there i(! lt i~ only about things like where our beer deliveries going to come from now that beer tru aren't allowed on campus, Kwame Ture never should hav~ bee allowed tD speak at Union, because he was too controversut.l an he made people think about what their owt1 ideas and values ar ed on are cks n d . e, and we don't need that type of stimulation. LETTERS T o the Editor: v As this is the only forum to oice one's displeasure with arious aspects of the campus, e have had to resort to riting a letter to the editor. v( w w w h We realize that the changing eather in the Northeast plays avoc with road conditions. We Clean Up The Roads also realize that the constant use of salt and plows to clean roads greatly deteriorates their condition.. However, the condition of the roads on the Union College campus are far beyond deteriorated- they stink. Pot holes are one thing. Canyons are another. Please, for the sake of everybody's axles and sus- pensions, resurface the roads. Don't fill in the holes. Obviously, it has not helped. Concerned drivers, Ron Eugenio '91 Andy Braver '91 Jason Meshnick '91 Immaturity Out of Style! l To the Editor: f e I've been at Union for almost our years, and for the most part I love it. However, as with very place and everything, there are certain things which aren't so wonderfuL Right now I 'd like to address the issue of vandalism. Last week there was a Crosstalk on Union's graffiti; and how it is rather prevalent. This is indeed a serious pro- blem and should not be thrown i nto the wind like so many other issues have been in the last few years. Another act of vandalism, which is what 1 care to men- tion here, is the infantile destr11ction of ceiling tiles, particularly in West College. On my walk up three flights of stairs every day, l see at least five or six new tiles either punched out, cracked, or totally removed from the ceiling. COME ON GUYS!!! Union is supposed to be a place of education -- in all senses of the word. But I don't think President Hull felt that the decor of the dormitories had to resemble tenements cf the Soutll Bronx. for Multi- cultUJalism to grab hold. LET'S GROW UP. I don't think I need to explain myself any further -- for once I think most people will agree with me. I just find it absurd that things like this go on here at Union. It's quite disheartening; especially when we have to fork the bill for other's real cool acts of machismo. And we wonder why room and board are so high and there is. a housing problem on campus. Let's do something about it before Union turns into a hell hole. Sincerely, Peter Katz '91 Remembering to Say Hi to ''Annie'' To the Editor: As a retiree of Union College Food Service it was with great interest that I read the recent article in the Union College Magazine concerning the Food Service. However, I was surprised that no mention was made of Mrs. Ann Horan who has been the cashier at the Dutch Hollow Pub for over 12 years. She has seen the Pub go from a dark panelled \beer hall\ type of establishment, thru its modernization complete with stained glass windows, to its temporary home in Hale House where it bumped along on three wheels to its present site in Carnegie where it was Lett~rs to the Editor do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the Editorial Board ALL LETIERS TO TilE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED AND SUBMITfED TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFF1CE BY 4:00 P.M. ON THE TIJESDAY PRECEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LEITERS AND 'IHOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED. originally located in an old macbine shop in the basement She has literally seen thousands of students come and go, changes in faculty, Pres- idents, and Food Service Personnel, and I am sure many alumni will remember her pockletful of change, when the Pub was a strictly cash only venture, and she would chip in the odd quarter or so for studen.ts who fonnd themselves slightly short. . Her cheerful smile and her Irish wit can make paying for your breakfast or lunch almost a pleasure. So, the nex.t time you \cash out\ at the Pub just say \Hi Ann\ -- she'll appreciate being remembered. Sincerely Yours, L.V. Baldasare \Annie\ ·Allison C. Epstein, Ron Eugenio, Mich$e1 Br.ra. Stephanie Fray? Brica FrtUlk, Seth Friedman. Cad R. Friedrich. Jr •• Alisa Gass~ 1on H~es~ Karen Hurwitz, Jon Keller, Ed Menke, Meg Parsons; Lisa Pinney, Jim Poli~. Sreedhar Samudrala, Jared . Seiter, J¢remy Sollinger; SybilZar&ger. ADVERTIS:IWG S1'AFF: Melissa Kleitl; Andrea Rogers. CONCOBDIENSIS is published · Th~.tts<k\ys. a term by tbe of -~mon College; . New York ;J • ' .I

CONCORDIENSIS, February 21, 1991 Page IS ALAS Makes Excellent Choice, To The Editor: In last week's issue, the Concordiensis published many letters regarding the visit of Kwame Ture. A couple .of these letters questioned the choice of the African and Latino Alliance of Students (A.L.A..S.) inviting such a speaker to Union's campus. I would like to address this question, but before I do I also want to point out that I did not attend the lecture because of previous obligations. I would have loved to go for tb.e experience of hearing hirn speak I have read some of Stokely Carmichael's work from 1967, but was not aware of his cllanged view before he was introduced to our commun· ity. In the time sin'ce the lecture~ I have discussed Ttrre's visit with a diverse group ·Of people and have listened to many mixed feelings. I feel that there is no reason to question the choice of any organization's sponsoring any event. Kwame Ture was invited to Uni()h by A.L.A.S. as part of Black History Month (February). A.L.A.S. had no intenti<Jn of inciting riots or violence. Kwame Ture was invited to speak to Union's Community, not with malicioas intent, but instead in an eff<Jrt to expose students voluntarily to a wonderful intellectual experience. People who attended this event, attended willingly and should have been aware of Ture's views before going. If they did not agree with his assertions, they were given the chance to dispute issues with him. Kwame Ture is a well educated individual who holds views that everyone may not agree with, but this does not constitute a reason to keep people from being directly exposed to his views. A.L.A.S. invited Ture freely, students, faculty and others attended his lecture willingly and Ture vocalized facts as well as his own beliefs without re- straint. Nothing in this scenario was forced. The issue of whether or not A.L.A.S. made the right choice of speakers is not a significant factor in the stir that his visit has caused. A.L.A.S. made an excellent choice, in my opinion. I have been at Union for three and a half years and have not witnessed such passion in any disagreement among students until now. I applaud A.L.A.S. tor initiating such an intellectual stirring. I just want to remind everyone that diver- sity is not wrong, but forced conformity is. Sincerely, Ellen M. Nichols '91 Help Improve Housing To The Editor: The Union Committee for the Improvement of Residential Life has recently distributed a residential life survey to the student body. The committee consists of four faculty mem- bers, four students and two administrators and was appointed by President Hull to reveiw the recommendations of the Middle States Committee on the Freshman Year and Residential Life. The survey was drafted by the committee as a whole and will be one of many sources of information the committee will consider in making its recommendations. The results of the survey will be available for review at the library when the tabulation is completed. The committee is now inter- viewing members of the campus community who have responded to previous an- nouncements in Concordiensis. If you would like to be interviewed, please contact the committee by sending a note to box 2224. The Committee for the Improvement of Residential Life Promote Unity - Not Conflict To the Editor: I wculd like to express my deep regret in A.L.A.S.'s invitation of Kwame Tore to speak on campus this past Friday evening. His speech, though inspirational and moving, was offensive to certain student groups on campus. His statement that all Zionists arc his \enemies\ is an affront to all Jewish students who believe in tbe right for Jews to maintain a homeland in Israel. I believe in Zioni srn, but I do not consider African Americans my enemies. I sympathize with the desire ()f black students to educate Lhe Union community about h lack history and rae ial discrimination, but I felt that their choice of a speaker, wbo has been known to be anti- Zionist, was quite poor. In my opinion, A.L.A.S. could have found another leader whose political beliefs did not include insulting Jewish students. While I believe students ought to have the freedom to invite any speakers they choose to represent their beliefs, I think student groups ought to pay attention that the speakers they chose do not offend other religious, racial, and/or ethnic groups. Freedom of speech is protected by the Constitution, --but consideration for others is a matter of respect. We are living in a small community here at Union College - is it possible to promote unity rather than conflict? I hope that all student groups will take this into consideration when inviting speakers on campus in the future. Sincerely, Lisa R. Cherande '91 LETTERS Concordiensis: All Talk, No News To The Editor: I am very sorry that I missed Kwame Ture's talk here last week. I have long admired Stokely Carmichael as a brilliant leader of the Civil Rights movement in the late 1960's and, knowing that he is ' a dynamic and controversial speaker, I figured he would add a nice note of excitement to an otherwise fairly boring parade of speakers around here. Unfortunately, I had obli- gations at home and couldn't attend. However, I was interested in finding out what he said, and I thought that the college newspaper would cover the talk-- you know, things like how many people were there, what the speaker said, what happened in the question and answer period, how the · speaker defended his views, whether the crowd liked or disliked him --just the ordinary NEWS of the event. I was wrong. All I know is that he spoke (there's a picture of him) and that a number of people don't seem to like everything lle said. I got a short way through Andrew Marchant-Shapiro;s piece, which I mistook for the news on the talk, and gave up (what was that about anyway?) I didn't even begin most of the other letters -- they were simply too long. Moreover, why would I want to read literally 1000's of words about a talk I haven't got any news on?! (I'd bet that the majority of Union students looked at those letters and passed them right on by too.) So, I read the \Important Announcement!\ that called on readers to shorten their letters. AMEN! To print pages and pages of long, boring letters is bad enough, to print only letters and commentary and no news is not joumalism. This is a student newspaper where readers shoald be able to get news. So, why not make Concordiensis into a news- paper and not an opinion journal, and organize it the way most newspapers, college and others, are? Keep letters at 500 words, confined along with editorials and opinions to 1 or 2 \op ed\ pages. Then maybe there'd be room for real coverage <Jn the Gulf War (news not just opinions), information on what is happening at other campuses, or some reviews of local bands and the music scene, some- thing on movies, drama, art, cul~ure, ~ythi11g! Hey, there's some news out there, why not see fit to print some of it! Teresa Meade is Assistant Professor of ~story Union's Black Community Must.Rethink Agenda· To the Editor: When I left the gates last June, I was confident that the Union I was leaving was one more committed to the values of its founding than it was when I first arrived. As evidenced by recent events chronicled by this newspaper, I no longer have cause for as much optimism. One cause of my optimism had been the ability of Union's black community to engage the College in a constructive and meaningfal examination of racial problems and concerns. I fear, however, that ALAS may nave shot itself in the foot. Obviously, the group made a poor decision, both politically and intellectually, by sponsoring Stokely Carmichael. ALAS. has certainly done severe .damage to its prestige and credibility. As a Jew, I cannot be but outraged at Mr. Carmicllael's ignorance of and ambival.ence toward&. Jewish histpry. Hi.s thinly veiled attempts to use Jews as cannon fodder for his own designs on power have not gone unnoticed. Nor, might I add, are they at all original. He is a cynic of the worst kind because he exploits tile fear and ignorance of those very people for whom he claims to be a savior. · · . While 1 remain disa~poirued, I am also ho-peful.that Union's black comnitinity will retrench and rethink their; agenda: lt would be tragic to squander an atmosphere of' increasin.g tolerance by resorting to this kind · of anti-intellectual hooliganism_ Respectfully, Maurice J. Kauff '90 P.S. Pmf. Tobiessen should note that I did not stipulate that Mr. Carmichael should have been prevented from speaking. BIG BROTHERS-BIG· SISTERS of :!:;'::!0:!;.\\' 924 ALBANY STREET, SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK 12307 • PHONE (518) 374·4523 UNION STRIKES AGAIN! The Union College Big Brothers/Big Sisters Bowl For :Kids Sake bowlathon on Saturday, February lOth at Revere Lanes ·.,as the most successful Union bowlathon in the six year history of the event. One hundred. twelve students, staff and friends gathered to raise over $4500 ~n pledges. The fraternity/sorority challenge issued to all campus groups was won by the enth~s~a~tic . an.d outgoix:g team from the College Center/Student Act~v~t~es off1ce. The1r team consisting of three staff members and three students raised a grand total ()f $898, oo. Other, t?P groups included Sigma Phi ($615. 00), Chi Psi ($556. 29) and F1g1 ($389.45). Big Brothers/Big Sisters would like to thank these and all other groups tha~ participated this year. The energy and enthusiasm of all the UnLon representatives was contagious! The Union , Col~ege Bowlathon is. the kick-off eve~t for the Big Brothers/B~g S~sters Bowl For KLds Sake major fund raiser held in local ~owlLng houses in Ma~ch. All money contributed by sponsors stays ~n the local c~mmun1ty to ben~fit the local ag-ency. The m<;>ney .1s used to r7cru1.t, screen, tra1n and match Big B.rothers and B1g Sl.~ters to k1.ds on. our waiting list as well as provide professional staff to monl.tor matches. \·~ : . ': - <}. ~- . ·, _ • .,. ''-:- -,·: >:

,.... .J' '· •. fit Page 16 ~Of.\~ ~I\ •·~ •· ,. ~~· ., \ll1'l'.f _,,. rHl~. :\~l,Q..\'w CONCORDIE~vSIS, February .u, 19~IJ. VOLUNTEER Maple Ridg·e Day Treatment Program is looking for student voluntHers interested in offering the·iJ time for a variety of programs in the Human Service field. Including habilitation services, speech therapy services and nursing service. If interested, contact Eileen Zilberman at 355-0221 LANGUAGE TABLE SCHEDULE, WINTER 1991 Dutch Hollow Dining Room Everyday, 12:30-1:30 Mondays French, Hebrew Tuesdays Chinese Wednesdays Spanish Thursdays German Fridays Russian, Japanese You asl(ed for . . NEW COURSE LISTINGS - SOCIOLOGY DEPARTMENT Minority Relations in America Sociology 50 , . · · This course focuses on minority relations in America. We will survey the historical and sociological factors that relegate American minorities . to their present positions in society. Their lives and cultures are traced with special emphasis on how governmental policies, myths, patronizing attitudes and racism impact on their development. The course will also look at forgotten minorities - women, children and the elderly. We will also assess the future of American Minorities in light of attempted efforts at reform. Professor Quaye . MWF 8:45-9:50 The Soci()logy of Death and Dying Sociolology 145 Ours is a death and dying society: Death touches everyone's lives, therefore it is worthy of sociological study. This course will investigate death as a sociological subject. Topics include medical definitions, expression and a~titudes towards death through gumor, visual art, language and music. We will also examine medical and legal ethics as well as micro/macro levels of dying (suicide, death penalty, AIDS, abortion, muclear destruction). Professor Quaye MWF 11:15-12:20 Women's Studies 10: Gender and Society (Anthroo 12) An interdisciplinary introduction to the theories and findings of feminst scholarship on gender and women. The course focuses on social and cultural definitions of gender and the diversity of women's experiences across class, ethnic, and national lives. Topics include the relationship between gener and sex, language, economy, social stratification, and culture change. UNION COLLEGE a computer that's real college material. BOOKSTORE COLLEGE CENTER We heard you. The ideal computer for college needs certain things. Like a mouse, to make it easy to use. Preloaded software, that'll let you create impressive papers with graphics and spreadsheets. And great tools, like a notepad, calendar and cardfile. It should also be expandable, so it can grow with your needs. The IBM Personal System/2\ has all this at a special student price and affordable loan pay- ments. And on a difi'erent note, }'OU can get a great low price on the Roland• Desktop Music System tllat transforms your IBM PS/2• with Micro Channel\ into · an excitin& comprehensive music maker. The PS/2 is perfect for college because you told us just what you .needed. And no one knows what it takes to be real college material better than you. HOURS MONDAY-FRIDAY' 8:45-4:30 SATURDAYS 11:00 - 3:00 TELEPHONE 518 370-6188 FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONTACT MR. CHARLES BOSWORTH =;:-:-_:::. =- --- ----- -- -·--- ---·- -----·- ·ThiS offer is available only to qualified college students. faculty and staff that purcha~ 113MSelected AclDill'liC Solutions ttvoogh par1icipating.campus outlets, IBM~ eoo 222·7257 or IBM AulhOnzed PC Dealers Certified to remarket IBM Selected Academic SolulionS; Orders ire sub jed 11ill'lailabiHty. Pr1C8S am subject to change and IBM may Wllhdll!W the offer at any time Without wntten notiCe. IBM. Personal System/2. PS/2 and Mlcto Channel are reg&Siaftld ttadlrnaJIIl or lllltlllt\lltionll Bclsiness Machines CorpOialion. ®Rcland is a registered trademark ol Roland CorponitiOI'I, US. · ~ eM Corpot1110n 1991

CONCORDIENSIS, February 21, 1991 CA-MPUS NEWS CLUB NEWS NEW·MAN CLUB ACTIVITIES N'ifwiiA.\N-suP\iiiifs ... : Tuesday, February 26 at S p;m. we will gather for supper a.Jld conversation with Bishcp Howard J. Hubbard, Bish()p of Albany. All are welcome~ Go through upper dining and bring tray to CC203 or bring you.r own.· CONFIRMATION - Classes for Union students 2re meeting on Fridays in CC404 with Sister Joan from 2:3@ to 3:30 p.m. in preparation feu April 18. LENTEN PROGRAM -. Six Wednesdays of Lent from · 12:15 to 1 p.m. in CC404 Sister Joan will facilitate a Lenten program \Parables and J;>rayers for Lent.\ These six original stories by Father Edward Hays, director of a · .comtemplative center in · Easton, Kansas will touch and challenge ye1.1 and make the Lenten message come alive in a powerful way. Bring a brown bag lunch. Hot water will be · available. All are welcome. Wednesday, February 27 -The Medicine Man. SAV_ETHE WILDLIFE It WWF JESUIT SURVIVOR OF EL SALVADOR MASSACRE - Friday, March 1 Jon de Coitina, S .J. wi!ll be at the St. Joseph Provincial House, Latham. He · will celebrate Mass at 7 p.m. followed by a presentation on El Salvador. Any student needing transportation contact . Sr. Joan. ·FOLK GROUP - Singers and musicians interested in being part of the music ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Sunday Mass please meet at 6:30p.m. in St. John's church to rehearse. CLASSIFIEDS T U T 0 R IN G ~ Union students who are interested in tutoring please contact Barbara Cash. Box 279. Tel: 386-4181. PERSONALS Liz - Thanks for everything. You're the best! Love ITB - Munchkin Michele Happy birthday -Terry ML- Happy Birthday MM This Week At Union ....--Weekly Crossword----. 24 Feb - 2 Mar 1991 Feb 24 - Sunday Alpha Phi Alpha Celebration Week-> Feb 25 - Monday 3:45 PM CC302 Prog. Bd. Feb 26 - Tuesday 12:00 PM CC302 Plateful: Religion 5:00 PM CC205 Newman Supper CCAud Film: Narrow Margin 7:30 PM CCAud APA Speaker Multi-Racial Politics 9:00 PM CC302 Free Film Series 7:00PM CCAUD APA Film & Disc. \School Daze\ 7:30 PM CC302 Crosstalk: Alcohol & Drugs Feb 27 • Wednesday 7:0~ PM cc3o2 Dramatic Reading Senes CCAud Film: The Color Purple Feb 28 - Thursday FOUNDERS DAY 11 :30 AM MC Minerva: Founders Day 11 :30 AM UCDH Multicultural table ·Mar 1 - Friday CCAUD Moive: \The Freshman\ 7:00 PM CC406 Spanish Clul> Film: Skyline 7:30 PM Arts Dept. WMultiple Woodwinds· Mar 2 - Saturday CCAUD Moive: \The Freshman\ Current as of 2/19 8:00 PM Nett - \Oedipus· 7:30PM CC302 APA Panel \Amer. Disenfran.\ 8:00 PM CCAud On Teaching Shakespeare 8:00 PM Nott - ·oedipus· 8:30 PM CC302 Angels of Alpha Phi Alpha 8:00 PM Nott - 'Oedipus· 9:00 PM Mem. Ch. Night of Expressior 10:00 PM Old Chapel: PARTY-STEPSHOW This ca lenciar is presented by the C()IJege Center/S.tudent Activities Programming Board. X6118. \GAMESMENSHIP\ By Gerry Frey ACROSS 1 PUTTING QAME 5 Protective ground covering 10 Charles: Abbrev. 14 Hymn, eg 15 Mr. Zola 16 Hallowed 17 BOARD GAME 19 Enthusiasm 20 Pilot 21 WORil GAME 23 Columbia and Mlssls· sippi, og: Abbreviation 26 Young.onos 27 Ms. Magazine buyer 30 Greek cheeses 32 Residues 36 JUMPING GAME 38 Cling 39 Forearm bone 40 Overflowing wllh water 42 Biblical \you\ 43. RACKET GAME 58 Prosecute again 25 Pact 62 La Boheme's heroine 27 Galway's Instrument 63 PITCHING GAME 28 Lamprey catcher 66 Article 29 Exodus food 67 Regions 31 A marble 60 Laugh·ln's Johnson 33 Laugh !rack sounds 69 Lucid 34 Odds partner 70 Your brother-ln·laws' 35 Sown daughter 37 SILEHT GAME 71 Mall and hops drink 38 Dally wort DOWN 41 Lose hair 1 Chews the tat 44 College In New 2 Precodes \OR\: Public Rochelle, NY 46 Pushers' customers spuakar 48 A : Not based on 3 Parasitic Insects prior study 4 Bunko artist 51 Messrs. Frome or Allen 5 Master ol Englnoerlng Admin. 53 Make useable again 6 Hesitating word 54 Kingsley_: English 7 Bean or City novelist 8 Cuckoo and alarm 55 Ms. Moreno 9 French Hank 10 GAME PARAPtiEHNALIA: 2 wds 56 Warning for the future 45 M 11 Clly In Michigan 57 North American Indian 47 Muse of love poetry 12 Soviet mountain rango 59 Ripped , 48 Equals 13 Allogethar 60 Blood V11asel network 49 Selective Service Sys. 18 TV MeN's nickname 61 Rl~er to the North Sea 50 Unique penon 22 Harem member: Abbrov. 64 Strategic Air Comm. 52 Ruminant 24 Norm Patenon\s wile 65 Com~ass ~1.: Florida 54 Fragrant and others from Missouri MichiL~ Happy Birthday Page 17 -LL LOST: Man's gold ring with stone. Lost on Friday. Feb. 1, 1991 at Perrino's on Rosa Rd. Has sentimental value. Generous reward. Please phone 372-3291. Lisa A- Pass the mustard please. Pants on fire. Bruce Springsteen or Bon Jovi? Which is bigger - your liver or your small intestine? Please send me Poster #4. The Bears. Velveeta. ITB,Pam Dear Jon, It's so awesome to have you here again. This weekend will be one huge party - nonstop. You're a great friend (and more!). I love you. Let the parties begin! Love always, Hey Jen- BIG FUN!!! Greg Guess Who TATER - \Humma Hamma Xnay, smelly belly, cheese, Lardo sardo Guy Lambardo, Pass the mustard please!\ -Loser JLC- Thank you for everything on Saturday. We have a new friend at C--- Cat; and it was worth it! -LFA Hey Guys! The Hulk Hogan one is blonde, let's buy it! UnionTrack - You are all Ultimate Warriors! Congrats on 2 ~xcellent meets this weekend. Marc - When are you buying me my pet sea lion! I had a great weekend. Thanx -D Kwelch, Mattie, Dawn, Em. Deb & Marcy - Love and :3roccoli For All - ITB-D Dawn - We love you even though you look weird. Don't worry we'll pay some ransom to go to the formal with you. Love ITB, Munchkin & D P.S. You are a geology goddess! Rubes® By Leigh Rubin At the overeater's anonymous support group ball, they always danced cheek to cheek to cheek. Every mailman's worst nightmar-e. Night after night, he would lie awake, worrying fearfully about the hazardous consequences of smoking in bed.

Page 18 Unio?;l College Career n r Development -;._ ...... ~ ~~~-- Center A TTENTIVN SEN I()~ S COMPANIES WITH OPENINGS STILL REMAINING Com pam: Major Regujred Recruiting Date CENTRAL HUDSON EE, ME 2/28/91 GAS & ELECTRIC CVS PHARMACY FAMOUS FOOTWEAR HODGKINS AGENCY KOBACKER COMPANY ALL MAJORS ALL MAJORS ALL MAJORS ALL MAJORS NAVAL UNDERWATER EE, ME OTIS ELEVATOR ME RALSTON PURINAIEEECHNUT EE, ME UPJOHN SCIENCE ATTENTI()N 2/27/91 2/26/91 2/25/91 3/5/91 2/28/91 3/6/91 3/6/91 3/1/91 -JUNI()~S & SUJ>Ii()M()~ES $ PAJD SUMMER INTERNSHIP $ AU state is offering a paid internship to Juniors and Sophomores with upper level classes this summer as Claim Representatives. They will have a representative interviewing on campus FJiday, March I. To sign up stop by the CDC with your resume by Wednesday, February 27. All majoR! are welcome to apply. Slots will be available on a first-come, first· served basis. CONCORDIENSJS, February 21, 199.J :************~*******************************************: I * * I * * UNION COLLEGE KOSHER Kr'l'CHEN : : I I I I I I I * presents a: : 1--~-...-....; * : ~ .I~ LS.EtUNd. e ... nsf si'A.·ae·.·s. :t SPAGEHETTI AND MEATBALLS DINNER • t . * * * l * Thursday, February 21 : Contact Lenses For Less :t :It * * * * 'It * ! * ! :11: * :It * i * j * :11: * * * * 6:00 PM ALL are welcomelll Bring yottr meal card! I I Located on the south side of West College , ..... A.AA\\\·I I :I I 'I I (o)(o) @ 1,_1 I I I_\ I \ I _I \ HEY DUDE! ALL YOU CAN EAT! '----------~----------J \ I I * * * * * * * * * * * * * * Fast, Convenient,. Direct·to- You 1 savings of up to 50%. All Brands · and Prescriptions in stock. in· l eluding Tints & Disposables. 1 Overnight shipments available. · Lenses 100% Guaranteed in fac- I tory-sealed vials. 1 'Call for infonnation and · FREE CATALOG. I 800-726-7802: '.1•t 24 Hours 1 : 7Deys 'I &.!10!!- ~ ~ .!_ol~ ~ 33020_,,) * **~***************************************~*************** RUC ELECTIONS Monday, March 4th at 8:00p.m. College Center Auditorium All Members come to vote Union Colllege Bookstore ITEM Plastic Tumblers Mixing Bowls (3.5 and 6 qt.) RayOVac Flashlights Indian Tapestries Laundry Baskets Assorted Storage Baskets Assorted Hangers Clothes Hamper Storage Crates Dust Pans Dust Pan and Brush Sets Shoe Storage Boxes ~ $.29 $1.39-1.79 $8.25 $16.99 $3.99 $. 79-3.59 $.30-1.59 $8.89 $6.99-9.99 $.99 $4.49 $8.49 ITEM Housewares Sale 50% 0FF $.14 $.69-.89 $4.12 $8.49 $1.99 $.39-1.79 $.15-.79 $4.44 $3.49-4.99 :$.49 $2.24 .$4.24 liE.M Under the Bed Storage Boxes 4~Drawer Storage Chest Stacking Bins Waste Baskets (24 qt) Utility Cans (small and large) Shower Buckets and Crates Shower Sandals Shower Thongs Assorted Alarm Clocks Tables Pine Folding Bookshelf Clothing Special 't::!M. $2.49-3.95 $18.95 $2.25 $3.09 $3.99-6.99 $1.95-7.00 $1.39 $1.19-3.89 $6.99-18.99 $5.95-10.95 $53.99 50% 0FF $1.24-1.97 $9.47 $1.12 $1.54 $1.99-3.49 $.97-3.5 $ .69 $.59-1.94 $3.49-.9.49 $2.97-5.47 $26.99 Varsity Jackets Polar Fleece Jackets ~ $169.99 $64.99 1/3 OFF $113.33 $43.33 Bookstore Hours: Monday-Friday 8:45-4:30 Saturday 11 :00-3:00 Sale valid through March 15, 1991

Page 19 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT And The Nominees Are • • • By JULIE MEDOW Arts Editor Every year, members of the Academy and Writer's Guild get together in Hollywood and decide, probably over coffee, what movies are worthy of the highly acclaimed gilded statue known as the Academy Award. Well, last week, t'he nominations were announced nationwide, showing some surprises, hut mostly reinforcing what the public already knew. Dances with Wolves, for example, came out on top,· receiving twelve nominations including Best Picture, Director, Actor., Supporting Actor, and Supporting Actress. This movie explores the experiences facing one man (Kevin Costner) as he searches for a greater understanding of himself as both an individual and as an American fighting for the frontier. His entire view of the West and of his job in the army changes drasticaUy (when he is placed at an abmdoned post with no contacts other than his horse and a wolf), for he befriends a tribe of Native American Indians, and begins to see life through their eyes. He learns their language, enjoys their customs and rituals, hunts buffalo with them, and even falls in love with one of the women in their tribe. Dances with Wolves is perhaps the first movie of its kind, showing sympathy for the Native Americans who came under siege and near extermination from the white man seeking land and powl;r in the great plains. It is a beautifully portrayed story, containing both dynamic and tragic elements and incredible cinematography. Kevin Costner is not only nominated for Best Actor in this film, but also for Best Director. · The other four movies HOROSCOPES by Zol.a Capricorn: This week will be demanding of your time, so make sure you don't concentrate all your efforts in one area. Lucky day: Wednesday. Aquarius: Stop hiding from your friends! Go out and hilve a ball. Lucky day: Saturday. Aries: There is a fire in you that has been overactive lately, and it needs some smothering if you are to get your life back in order. Lucky day: Thursday. · Taurus: Someone thinks you are cute. Try to be perceptive - good things could come of it. Lucky day: Monday, Pisces: Don't be hurt by careless comments aimed your way. Keep your head up and ignore the bull. Lucky day: Tuesday. Scorpio: You are being torn in two directions and don't know what to do. Plan carefully. lucky day: Tuesday. Leo: The week ahead will be very lucky in terms of social oppo~unities. Look around and take advantage of qpen s1tuat1ons. Lucky day: Saturday. Cancer: After closing yourself up in your shell, you are ready to take a few steps forward. Don't be afraid - things can only get batter. Lucky day: Friday. Virgo: You need a bit of time to find yourself again. Go away this weekend or see a movie, and try to sort out exactly what it is you want. Sunday. Libra: You have been given an opportunity to do great tllings and people look to you with respect. Lucky day: Monday. Sagittarius: Your academic life, which has been put on hold for too long, will start to fall into order as you become more and more productive. Lucky day: Thursday. Gemini: You will hear word from someone who you haven't spoken to in a while. Luck da : Saturda . Silence of the Nothing But Trouble Lambs The Godfather Sleeping With the Enemy III The Rescuers L.A. Story Down Under King Ralph Awakenings Dances With The Never Ending Story Wolves Part ll Hamlet Goodfellas Once Around Call Theaters for Show Times. PROCTOR'S DOES IT AGAIN THE TULSA BALLET IS COMING TO PROCTOR'S THEATRE SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 24TH AT 7:00P.M. TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE IN STUDENT ACTIVITIES (CC408) FOR $9.25 receiving nominations for Best Picture were G()o d te.f las, The Godfather 'P'art III, Awakenings, and 'Ghost. The two mafia movies also did well in numerous categories, with The Godfatlter Part III collecting seven total nominations (includi!lg Francis Ford Coppola for Best Director and Andy Garcia for Best Supporting Aot~r),. and Goodfellas recefv,ing six (Best Director., S corsese; Supporting Actor, Joe Pesci; Supporting Actres~, Lorraine Bracco; Screenplay,. a11d Film Editing). Ghost received five in all, including Wlloopie Goldberg for Best S11p:porti11g Actress, while Awa:ten:ings English only received three, with Robert DeNiro nominated for Best Actor, and Robin Williams not receiving a nomination. On the more humble side of Hollywood, Home Alone, Hamlet, and Postcards from the Edge all received two nominations. You'll all be glad to know that Kathy Bates received a much deserved nomination for Best Actress for her slightly psycho role in Stephen King's and Rob Reiner's Misery, and that Edward Scizzorhands was nominated for Best Make-Up (ya think it'll win?) Reversal Of Fortune received a nomination for best actor, as Dept. Writing did the movie entitled The Field. Well, I tried my best to cover all the bases, but I may have left out a movie or two, and for that I apologize. But these ate the biggies above; the movies you may want to sec and keep your eye on until the Academy Award show sometime in late March. So, on one of these cold and dingy days, you might just want to grab a sweatshirt, and head to the movies for two hours of junk food and guaranteed entertainment, and vote for yourself. What dp these guys in Hollywood really know, anyway? Prizes The Department of English welcomes submissions for their annual writing contests. Prizes for the four contests range;from $1'00 to $1,000, and will be announced at Prize Day in May. Two of the contests are intended for creative writers, and are open to all students: the Yudis Prize, for the best work of fiction, and the Academy of American Poets Prize, which includes recognition by the nationally known Academy of American Poets, for the best poem or group of poems. The remaining tVJo contests are intended to reward excellence in non-fiction writing. The Van Orden Prize is for \thE freshman student who excels in English co111position.\ The Allen Essay Prize is awarded to the seniDr who submits the best essay. The pieces considEred for these contests may be written as part of a student's course work, or they may be the J)roduce of independent efforts. Prizes are sometimes divided, in order to recognize several 'Norlcs of quality. The deadline for tfle submission of entries will be Wednesday, March 13. All entries must be submitted to the detpartrnent office with a pseudonym, accompanied by a sealed envelope with the pseudonym on the autside and the writer's real name inside, and must be clearly labelled with the name of the appropriate contest. For more information, plese contact professor Jordan Smith. Weekend Movie: Narrow Margin CC Aud. 7, 9 and 1 1 Wednesday Movie: ' The Color Purple 7:30 and 9:30 CC Aud. .. Open Mic at AEPi Wednesday, February 27 9:30PM Admission: One canned item to be donated to Schenectady's homeless Refreshments will be served PRESE!ITS ITS WW1 SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 23RD, 19~1 1\!1 3:30P.M. Dli'.h OLD CHAPEL ..

Based on the play by Sophocles .. ruary 28- arc 9, 1991 Celebrating Thirty Years . 1961-.1991 ,· I I ' '

CONCO&DIENSIS, February 21, 1991 Page 21 <trnnmrbitftsis SPORTS Big Time Hoops: College An Look I Women's Track Team All Over The Map Inside By ANDY BRAND Only two of the top 96 college basketball teams will end up winning their final game of tbe year. Therefore, a great emphasis is placed on winning the conference title. This allows at least 33 teams to end their season knowing that they were the best their league had to offer. So, here is a rundown on how the races are shaping up among the top conferences. The Big Ten and Pacific 10 conferences are the only leagues that do not have a post- season tournament The winner of the conference is the true champion. The Big Ten's top two teams, Ohio State and Indiana, met in a showdown this past weekend in Columbus, Ohio. In what turned out to be the best game of the year~ Ohio State won in double overtime. This all but wraps up the Big Ten title for the Buckeyes. The Pac-10 championship banner will be hoisted by Arizona. Their overtime win at UCLA two weeks ago gave them a commanding two-game lead that they will not relinquish. The top conference championship race is in the ACC. North Carolina and Duke are tied for the lead with a one-game edge over North Carolina State. The conference title should be on the line when Dulce travels to North Carolina on March 3. Look for North C3!olina to be cutting the nets .after the game. In the Big East Syracuse has become the team to beat. They hold a two~game lead over both Georgetown and Pittsburgh. Both those teams play Syracuse but will have to deal with the unfriendly confines of the Carrier Dome. Unless the Orangemen start to falter under the ensuing NCAA investigation of their program, they will repeat as champions in the conference known as the Big Beast of College Basketball. The Big Eight conference race has Kansas holding a one- game lead over Nebraska and Oklahoma State. The Kansas J ayhawks have won their last eleven games. They have also moved up to number seven in the polls after being left out of the pre-season rankings. This is a team that is getting hot at just the right time. In the Southeastern conference Mississippi State, Louisiana State, and Alabama are chasing conference leader Kentucky. Alabama and Mississippi State each have a chance to knock off the wildcats but will have to do so in Lexington, Kentucky. Next year Kentucky will be eligible for the NCAA tournament, but this year they will have to settle for the Southeastern conference title. Only one team has clinched a conference championship. This happens to be the surprise team of the season, the Utah Utes. This team was picked by every major sports publication to finish in the second division of the Western Athletic Conference. This team has compiled a 24-2 record and is ranked 13th in the country. Their underrated and powerful inside tandem of 6-9 Josh Grant and 6-8 Walter Watts is the reason for the Utes' success. With the season down to the final two weeks most conference titles are up for grabs. This should allow for an exciting finish to another great season. By MEG PARSONS The Union Women's Track Team were spread all over the map this weekend competing both at R.P.I. on Friday night and at the University of Southern Connecticut on Sunday. Because of scheduling problems the running and field events were separated; the runners went to the CTC conference meet and the field events to R.P.I. On Friday the women excelled in the field events. Junior standout Alix Goldschmidt yet again broke her own school record in the shot put throwing 12.17 meters. Sophomore Lori Simkins threw 9.01 meters and freshman Kerry Evans threw a personal record of 7.96 meters. These powerful women were definitely missed at the CTC meet. Albany Pharmacy freshman Jean Forrest placed first in the long jump with a jump of 14'10\. On Sunday in Connecticut, the runners faced teams of Division I caliber such as New York Tech and Farleigh Dickinson University. Junior co-captain Sandra Anselment performed well in a long day which included: the 1000 meter run in 3.17 minutes which qualified her for the State meet and placed fifth, the 3000 meter run in 12.06 minutes, and the anchor leg in the 4x800 meter relay. Two school record times were run on Sunday, unfortunately in tile same event! Senior co-captain Meg Parsons tied the record time of 1.22 minutes while junior Rika Poor set the new record at 1.20.5 ininlltes. In the 400 meters sophomore Tasha LaBarre and senior Clare (Mrs.) Megathlin ran seasonal best times of 61.9 and 65.8 seconds respectively. Both women should be competitive at the State meet next weekend. The 200 meters saw a close race, with Parsons in 28.85 seconds, junior Denise Saunders in 28.89 seconds, and Megathli11 in 30.38 seconds. Saunders also performed well in the 55 meters with a time of 7. 77 seconds. In the 4x800 meter relay were some tired women! The team ran reasonably well considering, and placed fifth in a competitive field. Next week the women will travel to SUNY Fredonia for the State Meet where they plan to compete with the top runners for the championship. If these intriguing articles have piqLJed your interest in the program, spring track practices begin this week. Please contact coach Dave Herrington at x6547. Jump Start Your Heart Announcing Thick, hot Belgium Waffles with fruit or Syrup and whip cream I • Good enough to get you vertical in the Morning at the 8-10:30 M-Fri.; 9-11:30 Sat. & Sun. -·

'. I Page 22 CONCORDIENSIS, Fe-br.~tllry 21, 1991 <llllltfllrbtrnsts SPORTS Women's Swimmers Finish 3rd In State Championships By JARED SEL TER Last year they came out of the New York State Championship victors, winners coming off a spectacular. undefeated season. This year they come out of the meet close, very very close. Unfortunately for the Union Women's swim team, 1991 was not to be the year that they wonback-to-back state titles as they completed the three day, twenty-four event competition with a strong third place finish out of sixteen teams competing. With a score (){ 680, Union placed behind winner Ithaca College, 833, and second place Hamilton College, 695, while beating out Hartwick College, 603, which came in fourth. Though they did not win the entire competition, head coach Susan Bassett, who has always stressed individual achievement leading to a well balanced team attack, felt that this state meet was better and more impressive and satisfying that last year's victorious one. Ithaca College, according to Bassett, won the meet decisively, essentially putting too many points between them and their closest competitors to really make it very close at the end. In the lower positions, howc.ver, there was a dog fight until the bitter end. Some impressive performances by many of the Dutchwomen kept the meet close and only until the end was it apparent that Union was not destined for above a third place finish. The finish was a little tarnished, thoagh. \My only disappointment,\ said Bassett, \is that we could have come in secolld.\ The one blemish on the ()therwise excellent meet was the disqualification of Union's four-hundred medly relay~ which was accused of a false start and their finish worthless. The relay was worth thirty-four points and in the end the margin between Hamilton and the Dutchwomen was a paltry fifteen points. A few hundreths of a second cost the swimmers a second place finish. The loss may have been an upsetting one but Bassett is not at all disappointed with the performance of her swimmers. According to Bassett the quaJ.ity of the other teams in the New York State area have greatly improved and the competition has grown in stature. The women had no trouble getting motivated or finding goals to achieve. According to the coach, the team was almost prepared not to win the title simply because they had other goals to achieve and they knew that to repeat would take an extraordinary effort. \Our goals are always the same, to improve individually,\ said Bassett. For Bassett, the very fact that more of her swimmers swam faster than last year and that more of her team will be able to compete in the upcoming The Women's Swim Team in action. Nationals makes this meet much better than last year. Explaining her satisfaction with this year's Dutchwomen performance as compared with last year's, Bassett said, \Last year was a magic year, with a lot of things going our way.\ When asked if she felt that the team swam to its full potential throughout the meet Bassett looked to the length of the ordeal and the obvious motivational problems associated with it. The state championship is a twenty-four event that encompassed several days. At any one point a swimmer of an entire team can lose its motivation or become tired. In retrospect, its easy to say that a certain event could have changed the outcome of the meet but that is not really necessary if the team is satisfied with its performance. \We don't spend a lot of time worrying about that,\ said Bassett of their place in the states and the 'what-ifs' that accompanies it. \I'm very happy with what we did,\ said Bassett, who hopes that her team remains one of the more competitive ones in the state rather than accumulating several state titles ant then wallowing in medioc::rity for several years before another crop of good swimmers comes along,. The meet was 'highlighted by the outstanding perfOI'ITlilllce by several Union swiln mers. Junior Jeanie Cutr011e was perhaps the single most successful swimmer e-f the meet, breaking rec()rds and capturing several events. Cutrone won the fift)', 100~ and 200 yard butterfly e-vents, breaking a meet record in the one-hundred yard even.t -with a time of 2:11.9. Cutrone .. who had already qualified for Nationals, also placed tllird in both the 200 and. 1:00 yard freestyle events. Clltr()ne set another record in the 100 Fly with a time of :59.16. Freshman phenom :Kell:y Eevan also had a career meet at the states, winning outl'il!ht the 100 and 200 yard breaststroke events. Bevan set 11ew high- water marks in those races with times of 1:08.76, 2:29.33 respectively, ami also a record win in the 100 IM with a time of 1:02.68. Bevan also captured two second places in the fifty year breaststroke anti 100 butterfly. According to :Bassett other \gutsy\ perf()1mances were turned in by both divers, freshman Tasha Zabka and sophomore Kristin IIolbrook, who contributed points to the team in the swimrning and diving events. As a team, tile Union Dutchwomen are ex:.tremely pleased with their pelfcnnance at the zenith of their swimming season. 111 this, their final meet, the Dutchwomen qualified two relay teams for the Nationals. Both the 200 .and 4()0 yard freestyle relay teams riiade the times necessary to represent their school at the state meet. The team they see is a strong future for women's swimming at Union and numerous future chances to capture tha.1 elusive title. This year, howrever, it was just not meant tore. Men's Basketball Hits The Skids BY JASON GRAVES The Men's Basketball team dropped 3 out of 5 games in the last two weeks to lower their record to 14 wins and 7 losses. Their losses were to Le Moyne (77-52), Plattsburgh (74-65), and Williams (65-52). The wins came agamst Skidmore (89-81) and Nazareth (97-85). Currently Jerry Brescia leads .the team in scoring with 17.9 po,ints per game. He is foHowed by Elgin Rhodes at 12.4 and Steve Evans with 9.2 The rebounding leader on the team is Rhodes with 8.1 boards per game. Alex Nestor and Kenny Evans each have 5.1 rebounds per game. Last Thursday the Dutchmen traveled to play a 16-8 Nazareth team. Union got out to a very slow start in the first half. With just over ten minutes remaining in the first half the Golden FJyers had built up a 19-2 lead over the Dutchmen. At 10:31 Jerry Brescia hit a 2- pointjumper to start the Union scoring. Brescia finished with 10 first half points as the half ended with a slim one point margin for Nazareth 35-34. Freshman Greg Quirolo was a key in this run with 2 three- pointers. With the comeback the Dutchmen had still shot only 38% for the first half. Nazareth shot 54% in the flrst half. Union came out in the second half and put together a 24-6 run. Elgin Rhodes was the catalyst in this run as he scored 10 of his 17 second half points. Kenny Evans scored 8 of his 19 second half points in the run. Union went on to score 63 points in the second half. Although Nazareth shot 30q34 from the foul line and scored 50 second half points, they couldn't catch the Dutchmen. The shot percent- ages reversed in this half with Union shooting 66% and Nazareth shooting only 30%. Final score: Union 97, Nazareth 85. Jerry Brescia finished the game with 24 points including 6 three-pointers. Elgin Rhodes .scored a career high 24 points whHe Kenny Evans finished with 19 points, all of them corning in the second half. Evans and Rhodes led the team with 8 rebounds a piece. Steve Evans had 8 assists in the game . Saturday Union travelled to play Williams. Union once again got off to another slow .start as Williams built an 8-0 lead three minutes into the game. Ten minutes later Union tied the game at 17 with 7 minutes left on the clock. Williams then went on a 13-2 run to finish the half and take a 30-19 lead into the locker room. Once again Union displayed a poor shooting first half making only 6 of 23 shots. The second half was basically even. Union pulled to within only 9 points before Williams was able to keep control. It was the bad first half that came back to haunt the Dutchmen. The score of the second half was only 35-33 in William's favor. Williams was up 20 points with 3 minutes to go, but Union cut it to 13 by the end of the game. Final score: Williams 65, Union 52. The high scorer for the Dutchmen was Jerry Brescia who scored 15 points, all on 3- pointers. He was followed by Elgin Rhodes and Alex Nestor who had 8. Rhodes was the leading rebounder with 10. Nestor followed with 6. Union has just three games remaining. They will play St. Lawrence at home on Friday, February 22 at 8:00. On Saturday, February 23 they will play Clarkson at home at 2:00. Their final game of the regular season will be in Middlebury on February 26. Hockey ••• Continued from page 24 Rick Clifford was held scoreless on the evening. However, he had one of his most solid performances of the season. He played a tough game and back-checked with aggressiveness. Clifford also responded well offensively, but he was the cruel recipient of some unlucky bounces. He was stOned by the Oswego goalie on one chance from in close and he hit the post a number of times in the third period. Clifford's all around hustle and mental toughness were one of the .keys to Union's victory. Bill Sedergren played well as he contributeed a goal and two assists. Menhall added a goal and an assist himself. •.••. Between the' Bluelines ••••• It is likely that Union will finish fourth in the ECAC West Division. This will .assure them of the home ice advantage in at least the first round of the ECAC west playoffs. Union played their last regular season game Tuesday, February 19th at Middlebury. The crowd of 2,387 at Achilles Rink on Saturday night was the largest crowd of the season, just over 100 short of a capacity crowd.

~ (' \ . \ .: Page· 23 (llnltfllrbirttsis SPORTS Kelly Bevan Sets 3 State And 5 School Swimming Recor,ds BY DAN STRUM Freshman Swimmer Kelly Bevan set five Union CoLlege records as well as three New York State records this past week at the New York State meet. For her putstanding per- formances, Bevan has been selected as the Concordiensis Sports Athlete of the Week. Bevan., who hails from Dalton, Mass.,. was the captain of her high school swim team, as well as an All-Berkshire MVP for three straight years. This year she helped the defending State Champion Union College Women's Swim Team to a 7-2record. At the New York State meet this past week, Union finished third behind Ithaca. and HamHton. Bevan finished f\ust in the women's lOOm breast stroke setting a .state as well as a Union College record with a time of 1:08.76. She won the 200m breast stroke setting a State/Union record in 2;29.33. She also won tile lOOm individual medley setting a State/Union record in 1:&2.68. Bevan captured third in the lOOm backstroke setting a Un,ion College record in 102.06. She set one more Union College record as she finished second in the 50m breast stroke with a time of 31.77. On March 14-16, Bevan will be competing in the NCAA meet which is being held this year at Emory University in Atlanta, Georgia. She has qualified for the lOOm and 200m breast stroke as well as the lOOm butterfly. In addition, Bevan will be a part of four Union College relay teams. Congratulations and con- tinued success to Kelly Bevan, this week's Concordiensis Sports Athlete of the Week. Note: The Editors would also iike to congratulate :the per- formance of trackster Alix Goldschmidt. The junior shot putter broke her own school record with a throw of 12.17 meters at a meet last weekend. Lady Hoopsters Break Their Losing Streak BY RON BIRNBAUM The women's varsity basketball team broke its losing streak on February 12 with a blow-away 61-31 victory against Plattsburgh in the team's second to last home game. Yet, their record would be 9-14 before the week was out, after 2 close road losses to Vassar (63-61) at its final Memorial Fieldhouse game and another defeat at the hands of a solid Williams last Saturday (70-58). Aside from providing the squad their first win in four weeks, the Plattsburgh game was positive in many other aspects. Despite high turnover rates by both sides, Union was able to forge a 27-12 halftime lead by out-rebounding and out- anticipating Plattsburgh. Union pulled down 50 boards and ran up 19 steals on the day. The Lady Dutchmen also dominated the second half, t11ough they were held scoreless in the first five minutes. Changing the offense slightly provided a spark for players, and Union was able to score 8 unanswered points soon after to tum things around. This well played man-to-man game also allowed everyone on the bench some playing time, and several players made sizable contributions, including freshman guard Denise Alexander with 8 points, junior again troubled by turnovers and forward Wendy Getty with 7 shooting, taking 10 shots less points and 3 rebounds, and than average and putting in freshman center/forward only a shaky 63% of its free Michelle Kleinh.aus with 8 throws despite a decent 40% rebounds. Leading the squad from the field. Williams' were junior forward co-captain constant pressuring the ball Robin Romer with 17 points also hurt Union. In the first and 9 rebounds, and freshman half, the team playeci a zone, forward Kirsten Dibble with 16 which worked well and Union points and 7 rebounds. was able to break Williams' After such a needed win, the press with smart passing. close Vassar game on Friday However, it was unable to was quite disappointing. While finish its layups and missed Vassar had been expected to be easy shots, trailing by a score a good team, entering the game of 32-35 after the first half. with .a 14-5 record, Union Halfway thru the second half, matched up with it well, but the Dutchwomen went to a turnovers were again high, and man-to-man defense, and Union was unable to convert trailing by 19 at one point enough steals and make second thereafter, they were able to get shots off rebounds. Shooting the score back to only a 6- percentage in the first half was point deficit with 2 minutes to a solid 48%, and by halftime play. However, Union had Union was only down by 2, to foul the opponent toward the but in the second it was much end to get the ball hack, and lower, and the team put in l~ss Williams hit its foul shots. As than 50% of its free throws. for individual efforts, Romer Also a threat was the fact that again Jed the pack with scoring Vassar had three players who (19 pts.) and Dibble with scored in ·double digits, rebounds (10), placing second including Vassar guard Jamie in scoring (18 pts.). Kleinhans Pierson, who sunk tluee 3- came in second for rebounding pointers. Leading the list for (8) and also had 4 blocks, Union again were Romer and while junior guard Jen Hill Dibble, both hitting double placed 3rd for scoring (8 pts.). digits in scoring and The final game of the season rebounding, and Kleinhans, took place on Tuesday, Feb. 19 who had her best game of the at RPI. The Lady Dutchmen season with 14 points and 9 planned to make this last game rebounds, hitting just short of count, and head coach Joanne 60% from the field. Little said the team expected Traveling to Williams for its this to be a \physical\ game most recent game, Uni<>n was versus the well matched RPI. ~upport Wnion ~ports Mouthing. Off BY ANDY BRAVER Sports Editor The 'Broadway Blues Some friends and I had an interesting experience last week. I don't really think that interesting is the .correct word, but I'll leave it for lack <>fa better one. On Friday nigl!t after the New York Rangers defeated the Hartford Whale:ts 5-3 at the world's most famous arena, Madison Square Garden, we were treated with a trip down the infamous runway, :past the blue curtains, and into the Rangers locker room. Outside the room, a large throng of eager fans searched for th()se players and notables willing to sign autographs and talk about the 2 goal win. Other people clogged the hallwa:ys adding to the already claustrophobic aura of the sweat filled area. The locker room itself is small. Between periods, the uniformed players must squeeze together sitting on the benches in front of their locker's while listening to coach Roger Neilson coach. The floor was covered by a thick red, white and blue carpet wllich was, of course, monogrammed with even . familiar team logo and name. Because we had to wait about half an hour for the television broadcast to end before being escorted into the locker room by John Davidson, ex-Ranger goalie and presently the \color\ analyst on their broadcasts, some players were already dressed and ready to leave. Others, like cellter Kevin Miller, were being interviewed by reporters. While New York Post beat writer Mark Everson questioned Miller about his two-goal game, the feisty center stood freshly showered in front of his locker happily answering any and all questions the pesty reporter offered. What is important to note about this incident is that Miller's locker was directly in front of the locker room door, which was opened at the time of our visit. Outside the doorway, those unfortunate souls 'Who were not permitted to enter looked inside for a glimpse of their favorite stars. What the men, women, boys, and girls saw was Miller giving an interview in his birthday suit, stark naked and leaning on his stall, totally oblivious to the action going on around him and outside the hallowed doorway leading into the shrine where my friends and I stood. I have no problem with women reporters in men's locker rooms. Conversely, I have no problem with men reporters in women's locker ro<>ms. Problems of the type that occured in the New England Patriots locker room occur when players such as the Ranger's Miller stand around giving interviews and talking while they are stark naked. In the new Liberty Basketball Association (LBA), the women's professional league, the players Me issued bathrobes by the team and are required to answer reporters' questions, not in front of their lockers, but rather in an interview room adjacent to the locker room. If all other sports would follow this lead, the problems would disappear. But I digress. I am not writing lhis article to preach or to inform everyone tllat I went into the Rangers locker room and met a bunch of players. I really don't have an iatent for writing this article. It's just that after writing almost 60 of these columns in the past three years, my creative juices have stopped flowing. And so, without an infusion of creativity, I was stuck. But I digress again. - Inside the locker room, we met a bunch of people. One of the biggest surprises was that INXS (you know, the group) was in the locker fO()m at the same time we were. The band, who played the Garden the next night, was taking pictures with some players, and we were loving it. JD, as John Da-vidson is known, introduced us all to coach Roger Neilson. You practically have to kick the guy to get a peep out of him. John Vanbiesbrouck came over. He is a really nice guy, l:Jllt it's really weird. He looks exactly the same every time he is on TV, and, if this makes any sense, he was a carbon copy of himself when we spoke to him. Bruce Beck, one of JD's partners on Madison Square Garden Network's telecasts, was called over by JD to meet us. He seemed ready to go home, almost as if he is tired of the post- game routine. James Patrick, the Rangers highly underrated defenseman, found his way over to us. He wanted to know if I got to many games. When I said that I used to, he quickly replied that he wasn't surprised that I didn't anymore because of the ridiculous ticket prices and the horrifying increases which loom ahead next season. He seemed angry at management for the price increases, .almost mad as if they are driving their loyal fans away with prices that rival a Broadway show. To get to the point, I guess I did have an intent after all, we either met or saw every Ranger player. They didn't seem like athletes. They seemed like normal people who had to live with the fact t.hey were in some way 'famous.' These guys are just nice people who want to play hockey, have a good time, and win. After going into the locker room and seeing this, I don't see them as 'farno11s' people or 'athletes• anymore. Now they are just a bunch <>f normal guys trying to win something which has eluded 51 other groups of normal, everyday guys.

0 .1:: 0 \tt \5 ~ ~ 9 0 .1:: .c.. fo\'t~ The Union Tracksters look to get a jump start at the llpcoming state meets. The women compete at Bowdoin on Feb. 23, 1he men at Colgate on March 2. Union Goalie Jim Helkle makes a big glove save in the Skating Dutchmen's 7-2 victory ,over St. Anselms. First Place Finishes Are Around for Men's Track By GREG BARRETT This weekend saw the men's track team at. a variety of different places. Several members of the ,squad traveled to RPI for an impromptu open resulting from the disorganization of the CTC Meet at Southern Connecticut. This rampant disorganization on the part of the officials was very disru}?'ti ve to the Dutchmen. Despite all of these inconvenienc~s, they posted their usual outstanding performances. At the RPI Open, the Dutchmen racked up many first place finishes. Ted Comigan led them to a first place finish in the high jamp when he cleared 5'8\. Art Broga soon followed wi11ning both the long jump and tile triple jump. The weightmen's Shawn Mowry and Keith Reynolds took a first and a third respectively. Greg Barrett led his race for a first place finish in the 800m. The rest of tile squad traveled to Southern Connecticut where co-captain Will Allen posted his seasonal best in the 400m with a 53.42. Rich Zembek followed suit and knocked out an impressive 1: 13.4 in the 500m. Rounding out the sprints was Bill Taylor who cranked through the 55m dash in 6.94 seconds. The 800m was the next victory for the Dutchmen. After breaking the world record by over 40 seconds last weekend (1:02.23), co-captain Bob Lindyberg decided to lay off of the caffeine. Despite this handicap, he ran a 2:04.9 which is his second best of the season and the second fastest in his heat. Pete Protzel also had his second best 800m of the season with a time of2:13.4 The Dutchmen now have two weeks of R & R (running and repeats) before they travel to Colgate to compete in the State Meet. Here they hope to hit their peak and accomplish all of their goals that were laid out in pre-season. Their strength and devotion will pay off when they go up against the best Swimming Championships For the fi.rst time in the history of Urnion College, the N.Y. State Men's Swimming Championships will be h~ld here this weekend. Come see the best Union men's swimming team take to the pool in search of a top 5 finish out pf 16 tea.ms in one of the most competitive state meets in the country. It would be a great boost for all of us to see a good turnout each night to cheer us on. For those of you who don't krnow much about swimming, having people there to cheer gives the swimmer a great lift in confidence and adrenaline, just as it does in any other sport, and it makes us go faster. So, come up to the pool this weekend and check it out. It should be a pretty exciting time, not to mention that is will be wanner in there than outside. Trials for Thurs., Fri., and Sat. will be at 11:00 a.m. and finals on those 3 days will be at 7:00 p.m. SEE YOU TIIERE!I SUPPORT UNION SPORTS February 21, 1991 Largest Audience of the Seas·on Watch Dutchmen Trounce St. Anselm's By DAN STRUM The outcome of Saturday night's game was all decided in a span of just over a half a minute. The Union College Skating Dutchmen scored three goals in 35 seconds which powered them past the visiting St. Anselm's Hawks. Between 5:17 and 5:42 of the second period, the Dutchmen got goals from Rick Burchill, Jeff Jiampetti, and Jayson Flowers to help break open a game which was deadlocked at 2-2. Union added two more in the third to cruise to a 7-2 victory. With this win, Union raised their record to 17-4-3 overall and 16-3-3 in the ECAC. With three points on the evening, one goal and two assists, senior forward Terry Campbell tied Todd Fobare(1983) for first place on Union's All- Time Leading Scorer list. Currently, Campbell has 167 points. He already holds the Union All- Time Assist record with 117 assists. Campbell had a couple of good chances to break the record late in the game, but he came up empty. \A lot of guys were pulling for me,\ Campbell said, \but I tried not to think about it. You do better when you let the game come to you. When you try too hard, the puck bounces over your stick and gets caught in your skates.\ Campbell had another chance to break the record in Union's regular season finale on Tuesday night against Middlebury. St. Anselm's took a 2-0 lead after one period, but Union managed to fight back. At the 9:30 mark of the second period, Union got on the board with a goal by Craig Ferrero. Union tied the .game at 2-2 with 13 seconds left in period two on a goal by Campbell, with assists going to Dalton Menhall and Greg Eccleston. The Dutchmen got two late goals in the third period by Rick Clifford and Ferrero to ice the victory for Union. Goalie Jim Helkie had a relatively quiet night in the nets, but nonetheless he performed well responded with goals by thus raising his season record to 9-2-2. Union played one other game last week with the results being just as desirable. On Tuesday, February 12, Union travelled up to :Play the SUNY Oswego Golden Lakers. Union experienced some minor lapses which helped keep the chances alive for the Lakers. However, the Dutchmen controlled the play for the majority of the evening en route to a 5-3 victory. Union opened up the scoring about five minutes into the game. They controlled the puck in the offensive zone waiting for a good opportunity. The puck made its way back to the point. Rick Burchill collected the puck and fued a slapshot by the goalie for a 1-0 lead. Union got some more quality chances, but could not capitalize,. Campbell came in on a 2 on 1 and set up Dalton Menhall, who made a nifty move and tucked the pluck in the back of the net. On a controversial call, Union's apparent goal was called back with a late offsides ruling. Oswego tied the game at 1-1 early in the second period. However, the Dutchmen Menhall and Bill Railton to take a 3-1 lead. This lead lasted going into the third period. Oswego once again cut the lead to a one goal margin by striking first in the third period. In usual fashion, the Dutchmen countered with one of their own. Campbell controlled the puck on the powerplay. He moved it around the point looking for an opening. He spotted Bill Sedergren and sent him a cross- ice pass. Sedergren received it and sent a slapshot on goal. The puck deflected high in the air on the way in but still managed to find its way into the back of the net as it fluttered by the bewildered goaltender. Craig Fmrero added one more goal to make it a 5-2 margin. Oswego was rewarded with some token powerplays in the second half of the third period. They capitalized on one of them to pull within two goals to make it 5-3. However, the Golden Lakers were not to get any more quality chances the rest of the night. The Union defense tightened up while the offense put on some intense pressure in the offensive zone. continued on page 22 UNION HOCKEY SCORING Through 24 Games G A PTS Terry Campbell 15 37 52 Craig Ferrero 17 29 46 Dalton Menhall 17 25- 42 Rick Clifford 12 25 37 Jeff Jiampetti 12 13 25 Bill Railton 13 9 22 Jayson Flowers 7 15 22 Rick Burchill 11 10 21 Tim Cregan 8 7 15 Wally Bzdell 6 9 15 Bill Sedergren 4 11 15 Scott Whitney 4 8 12 Greg Eccleston 3 6 9 Steve Battiston 1 7 8 Byron Smith 2 5 7 Bill McKenna 2 4 6 Brian Lucey 1 3 4 Tim Smith 2 0 2 Kevin Sullivan 1 1 2 Greg Steele 0 2 2 Mike Flanagan 0 2 2 Brian Geraghty 1 0 1 Dalton Gustafson 0 1 1 Shayne White 0 1 1 Jim Helkie 0 1 1 Bob Hussar 0 0 0

Vol. CXX, No. 15 Applications To Union Up 41/2% By TOM ANDRUCHOW News Editor The number of high school seniors who have applied to the College has increased by over four percent in 1991. This has come about as a surprise in the face of a rumor afoot that the national pool of college applications has shown a slight trend to decrease. Union's growing attractiveness is not easily pinpointed; rather the newly generated interest is a result of general improvements in many areas. · The goal of admissions is to compile a freshman class of roughly 510 applicants for this September. A.s of 20 February 1991, 2,832 applications had been received as compared to 2 /f'Q received for the Class of 1994. As of now, the results have been promising as 127 Continued on page 3 Schenectady, New York February 28, 1991 Greek _Volleyball Tournament Slated For Spring Term By STEVEN CARR Associate News Editor The second annual Greek Volleyball Tournament is to be held this year towards the end of spring term. The tournament is now entering the planning stages and is slated to take place on the weekend of May 17-19. The tournament was · organized last year with the expressed goal of illustrating the amount of good the Greek system can do by working together. The tournament ~chieved its goal as last year's event raised $8,100 for Schenectady Big Brothers/Big Sisters. The fund raiser also earned the praises of both Dean Alford and Dean Mammola, who commented that it reflected well on not only the Greeks but also the entire student body. The event was well attended by spectators, as could be seen by the consumption of more than 2,000 hamburgers and hot dogs and approximately forty kegs of soda. The auendance was especially high for the Sunday afternoon championship matches and award ceremony. In the finals. Theta Delta . Chi beat Phi Gamma Delta to win the fraternity championship and Delta Gamma outplayed Delta Delta Delta for the sorority championship. Representatives of Big Brothers/Big Sisters attended the tournament and came to the awards ceremony to accept the donation and to express their gratitude to the participants. The money for the donation was raised through contributions from alumni, the parents of Greeks. and the fraternities and sororities themselves. This year, the tournament will be run with the same basic format as last year's. Every house participating will pay one dollar for each of its brothers or sisters and pledges. Continued on page 3 Students Favor Changing School Motto By LARA CHAMBERLAIN The results of an informal survey conducted on Union's campus shows that students arc in favor of changing· Union's motto to \Under the laws of Minerva we all become united.\ Twenty-five Union men and twenty-five Union women were polled through· a random method and asked Lhe following question: \A group of . professors have gotten together and written to President Hull to ask him to change Union's motto from 'Under the laws of Minerva we all become brothers' to 'under the laws of Minerva we all become united.' This follows twenty years of coeducation at Union College · and is being oone to promote equality. Do you support this · change?\ ..., Of the total sample, 62% say that they would like to change the motto whereas 28% do not favor the change and 10% have no opinion on the topic. The men on this campus more strongly support the proposed change as 68% responded positively, measured against a positive response from the women at 56%. One male respondent who favors the alteration feels that the change \was needed and coming for a while.\ \When the motto was created the school was all male and is no longer so it (the motto) no longer applies,\ asserted one woman. Several women and men feel that it was important to uphold tradition. As one woman pointed out, \It's silly, it's (against) tradition. Women should put their energies to more important matters than stupid things like this.\ One man said that he was against the change not because of tradition but because \the change is in attitudes and people, not in the motto. People must look within themselves because there still will be problems with a different name.\ Men's Swimming Has Best Season-Ever In This lssu.e: By ANDREW W AGSHUL · \There's work to be done ... \ is the little phrase our coach remarked to us all season. The \work\ was to mak.e the other teams in N.Y. recognize the new Union Men's Swim Team, and the fact that we have emerged as a team to be reckoned with. To finish in the top 5 at States was the ultimate goal, and at the end of this past weekend \the work was done\ and the goal attained; Last year, the Women's team made a name • for themselves as the team to · beat in N.Y. This year, while the men may not have won the meet, finishing fifth meant that Union would no longer be the doormat of the league. After finishing eleventh last year we knew we had to work hard to move up. The combination of our team getting much better and other teams losing people allowed us to move up 6 places, which was the biggest jump any team has made in a long while at that meet. Unlike in past years, this year was a total team effort when it came to scoring points, which is what made this year so much more special. The whole team deserves credit for a great job done in re-establishing Union Swimming as a force. Thursday started off well for the Dutchmen, as the 200 free relay of Ernst, Wagshul. Quarrier, and Youscy finished third, while setting a school record by 4 seconds. The B relay of Saltzbart, Boon, Walsh, and Pirich finished 191h or 3rd for the B's. In the next event, the 500 free, Cliff \the Ironman\ Shaw finished 11th breaking the school record by 8 seconds. Next up was the 200 individual medley, Tony Tremaglio won the consolation finals in 9th place breaking his Continued on page 18 Thoughts On the Warsaw Pact's Ending -Page 7 Union College Theatre Celebrates 30 Years Men's Basketball Closes Out Regular Season -page 20 In the Nott -page.l7 ' . . .

. Page 2 CONCORDIENSfS,· February 28, 1991 <!rnnrorbitttsis · NEws· ANALYSIS Anatomy Of A Ground War By JIM POLITES A ground war. Just the thought of our military men and women engaging in hand to hand combat strikes a horrifying sense of fear in the souls of our most resolute individuals here in the United States. With land combat scheduled to begin on Sunday, February 24, the public perception of the Middle East Crisis appropriately shifted from air superiority of the Allied Forces to the most traditional, casualty-filled, and even segment of this escalating conflict. In the overall scheme of things, if any Lime is the appropriate moment to thrust our ground troops into war, it certainly is now. Tactically, land battle makes good sense because our near decimation of Iraqi supply lines and artillery production sites has caused the enemy to enter conflict knowing they have only a fixed amount of supplies available. This harsh realization will weigh heavily on Iraq's National Guard, for psychological warfare can be just as effective as physical destruction. The reason why Saddam Hussein has gathered such a mass popular following is that his words and actions up until this point in time have · represented all that is good and virtuous in the toppling of Kuwait. Saddam has effectively carried over a strong sense of nationalism from his country's aggression and displaced that to legitimizing reasons to enter war. The desire to fight is not necessarily indicative of a person who sees battle as the ultimate answer to difficult questions. Rather, it's the words of a charismatic leader like Hussein {or Hitler back in World War II} who turns the scary idea of war into a widespread emotional movement. The bottom line is that patriotism and worship of a country's flag clouds the The bottom line is that patriotism and worship of a country's flag cloud~ the judgement of a majority of people, and the unfortunate result is excessive human Jives lost. judgment of a majority of people, and the unfortunate result is excessive human lives lost. All of this revolves around the simple fact of psychology and its profound influence on the outcome of battle. What we are trying to achieve by thrashing Iraq through the air continually before engaging in ground warfare is to eat away at the resolve Saddam has so deeply ingrained in the minds of his many people. Before land attacks begin, now, there is a semblance of doubt in the psyches of these soldiers who for months believed that they were indestructible by running roughshod over a tiny emirate. Suddenly, with missles and Allied strikes filling the air and death tolls rising exponentially, the Iraqi sense of invincibility is withering with each passing day Intimidation is a ~~'!Y factor in any type of confrontation. With war though, scaring the enemy, making the opposition think not only of losing but death, is paramount in achieving the upper hand. The Allied Force:, scare tactics have been timdy in that they come in a situation where an of the fighting intangibles had been given to the Iraqis. They were the ones who were going to frustrate our military by using elusive and frustrating desert maneuvers. After all, everyone from Saddam to members of Iraqi military reiterated that this is where their National Guard would excel. On an entirely different- front, this is the perfect opportunity for George Bush to launch a dangerous ground attack, for a variety of reasons. With his popularity soaring · at the moment·- a result of the small number of casualties suffered thus far-- the President can afford to stretch the limits of the public~s view. With assurances and concrete evidence that our mission will result in victory, the act of initiating land warfare is being met with cautious apprehen.sion through agreement. It must be remembered, if the entire conflict wasn't evolving into such a one-sided show of military might by the United States, it is likely that a ground war would be discussed, but not seriously considered for lack of majority belief and support. It would be perfect if we could endlessly born b Iraq into- oblivion, never having to put our soldiers on foot in the peril they face today. Unfortunately, our plan of attack involves overwhelming Iraq not only in the air but on the ground as well. A complete destruction of enemy forces is needed to assure complete dissectian of Saddam's maniacal movement, anything less would be an uncompleted task. As· increased arbitration continues in seeking an end to war, maybe Saddam will see the monumental error in his ways before a new barrage of casualties dims an already morbid picture. The scary reality of a ground war is now upon us-- let's remember that ,it is a progression, albeit a morally tested one, of our plan to topple someone who was instrumental in viol.:tting the rights of an entire people. TI1e sooner we show Saddam he is outmanned in very possible way, the soon~r our troops can return home. Ground war. Whoever thought · there could be such a perverse virtue to it. all? Pray for tlie safe return of a{{ tfiose in the Persian yulf Flashback: 1960's Week Hits Union By JON KELLER LSD... The Jefferson Airplane... The Kennedys ... Diem... Allen Ginsberg .. , Chicago Race Riots ... The Tet Offensive ... Cream ... Gimme Shelter... Timothy Leary ... Ken Kesey and the Merry Pranksters... The Haight Ashbury ... Kent State ... I 15th Dream ... . Well, what arc we looking at here? There arc those who argue that the 1960s was a dangerous, destructive era in American history. To them, perhaps many of the names of the people listed above are equated with anarchy, disorder, faulty premises and flamboyance. To others, however, these names, concepts, states of mind and events signify the awakening of the mind and events signify the awakening of the American spirit. In any case, it goes without saying that the 1960s was indeed a fascinating period in our history. IL was a period of \boiling over\ in which the post war consensus was smashed in its entirety, firing shards· of new ideas at breakneck speed into American society. There is no questioning the fact that, for better or for worse, these ideas have become deeply entrenched in our political culture. In both the way in which we live our lives and the values which our government cncorporates into its policy making, these ideas are still the object of the fiercest debate on Capital Hill. Though the philosophical foundations of the ideas championed by Dr. King, Eugene McCarthy, Lyndon Johnson and others were by no means conceived in the 1960s, the unique thing about the era bas more to do with the radical ways in which the ideas were expressed. Therefore, I am proud to announce \1960s Week: A Closer Look\. which will begin next Monday, March 4. It is our intention to delve into the issues surrounding the 1960s in an objective and non- partisan fashion. There will be a series of evening events during the week, as well as daily tables which will be distributing free information on various aspects of the 1960s, from the music, to the politics, to the civil rights movement, to the Vietnam war. Schedule Of Events Monday, March 4, 7 p.m.: Forum Discussion: \The 1960s: The destructive era or the idealistic age?\ This will be an open discussion, touching on many issues relevant to the 1960s. Professors from Political Science, English, Psychology, History and other fields will be discussing the issues from a variety of perspectives. Particular emphasis will be placed on trying to compare the ideas and events of the 1960s with those of the 1990s. Monday, March 4· Friday, March 8: Tables will be set up in the College Center, cffering free information on a different topic each day relating to the 1960s. Some examples include \The Civil Rights Movement: The Approaches of Dr. Kin~ ~nd Malcolm X\ \Great Mus1cmns of the 1960s\ \Vietnam: From Eisenhower to Nixon\ and a variety of other subjects. Check the lobby of the College Center for details. Friday, Ma·rch 8, 7:30 p.m.: in the college center cabaret room. 1960s music. We believe that the events will be highly infonnative and very interesting. There is still a lot we can learn about the era, and this is going to be a great opportunity to do so. Perhaps those who feel strongly one way or the other about the 1960s will learn more and begin to question their beliefs. Perhaps they, instead, will feel even more strongly about the ideals of the period than they do now. We cannot.accurately predict these things. However, we can assure all who participate in 1960s Week a lot of new insights and a wealth of new perspectives regarding this fascinating era in American History. WRUC General Meeting For: ELECTIONS Monday, March 4th at 8 PM College Center Auditorium All Members - Come to Vote!

r l' .. CONCORDIENSIS, February 28, 1991 Page 3 Second An.nual Greek VOlleyball T·ournanlent Continued from page 1 Similar to last year, a mailing requesting donations will go out to all of Union's Greek alu·mni as well as the parents .of all presently enrolted Greeks. Last year, Sigma Delta Tau and Phi Gamma Delta collated the mailing, which consisted of approximately 9,000 letters. The initial funding for this year's tournament will be coming from Dean Mamola's Discretionary Fund with possible additional funding from the Student Forum. Like last year, the actual tournament will be held at Phi Gamma Delta's sand volleyball court and food will be provided all weekend long. The matches will be two on two for the fraternities and six on six for the sororities. Games will run Friday afternoon and all day both Satu!day and Sunday with the awards ceremony after the finals on Sunday afternoon. Before the event, all students will receive a program booklet including a tournament bracket . with times of matches and other information. 28 Feb - 6 Mar 1991 THIS WEEK AT. U·N:ION Feb 28 - Thursday FOUNDERS DAY 11 :30 AM MC Minerva: Founder's Day 11 :30 AM UCDH Multicultural table 8:00 PM CCAud On Teaching Shakespeare 8:00 PM Noll • \Oedipus\ 8::30 PM CC302 Angels of Alpha Phi Alpha Mar 1 - Friday CCAud Film: The Freshman 4:30PM CCATRIUM TGIF \Strange Arrangement\ 7:00 PM CC406 Spanish Club Film: Skyline 7:30 PM Arts Dept. \Multiple Woodwinds\ S:OO PM Noll - \Oedipus\ 9:00 PM Mem. Ch. Night of Expression Mar 2 - Saturday CCAud Film:, JtW':~~~~tj}~p .. , Curr~.fl\ 1 ffit'P.!tl~q·.~ , ·~.,~:~c.,~·\< s:oo PM Nett-- \Oedipo~· .. : · · . · 1 O:OO PM 01<:1 Chapel: 'PARTY-Sl'EPSHOW Mar 3 - Su.nday CCAud Film: 'rhe Freshin~m- s:oo PM SS016 Auditions: \1 0 Little Indians• Mar 4:·-· M:onday :. : 12·30 PM CC3::l2 Women's Speaker Lunch 3:45 PM CC302 Prog. Bd. 7:30 PM CCA TRIUM Open Discussion on War 8:00 PM SS016 Auditions: \10 Little Indians\ 9:00 PM CC302 Free Film Series Mar 5 - Tuesday 5:00PM CC205 Newman Supper 7:30 PM Crosstalk: \Deception Research\ 6:00 PM Nett - \Oedipus\ Mar 6 - Wednesday CCAud Film: Dead Calm 8:00 PM Nett ··\Oedipus· THIS CALENDAR IS PRESENTED BY THE COLLEGE CENTER/STUDENT ACTIVITIES PROGAMMING BOARD. X6118 Reported Security Incidents . . 2/18/91 2:47 PH WEST COLLEGE THEFT OF PER~ONRL !TEnS REPORTED_ 2/1 ~/91 2:00 AH BRONNER HOUSE ROOKHATE DISPUTE l/1~/91 2:07 PH WEST CiJLLESE VANDALISn 4TH flOOR l/19/'31 2: 3£> PH ALUHNI SYH r THEFT REPORTED 211~/91 4:20 Pn ARTS THEfT ilr CAMERA REPORTED - RECOVERED 1119/11 7:00 PH CAMPUS liOTOR VEHICLE ACC !DENT 2/21/91 l2: 14 AH HEI!ORIA~ FlfLDHOUS£ ~OTOR VEHIClE ACC !DENT 2/21191 3:43 An WEST COllEGE RADIO REPORTED HISSING - RECOVERED 2/22/91 2:29 M FOX HOUSE TRESPASSER REPORTED - GOA 1/22/91 IO:OQ AH ARTS COLLEGE ITEHS REPORTED HISSING 2122/91 11133 AH DAVIDSON HOUSE WINDOII BROKEN - ACCIDENIAL 1122191 4:00 Pil VALE CEHETARY CEHETARY DESECRATION 1f 13/91 11:24 AH FOI HOUSE ROOH LOCK VAHDAt !!ED • STUDENT HARASSMENT. 21 13/~1 12:03 PM ACHillES RINK DU~PSTER FIRE • ACCIDENTAL NO DAMAGE 1123/91 5:16 PH RATHSKELLER PROBLEH NITH CUSTOi1ER 2124191 2:1!l PH NEST COLLEGE VANDALISH TO 3RD FLOOR CEILING TilES 2!24191 10:37 PH RICHMOND t:OLLEGE UNAUTHORIZED KEV USASE 2/21/91 II: OS PH COLLEGE CENTER VANDALISM TO COURTESY PHONE 2114/91 II: 02 PH liCKOK HOUSE IIINDDW VANDALIZED 2124/91 2:0 I PH fOX HOUSE HARASSING TELEPHONE CALl Admissions Progress Report Impressive Continued from page 1 Early Decision options have been exercised. The number of engineers applying to Union has jumped 14.7%, along with the number of women applying lo the Accelerated Medical PrQgram. Overall; 16 more women have applied; 107 more men have also applied. The Ambassadors Program was founded in 1988 to counter the nationwide decrease in the number of applicants to institutions of higher education. By using students to recruit potential applicants at the peer level, the program has proven to be very effective in helping Union in the now more competitive student search. The recent promotion of Union hockey to Division has given the College much publicity and will continue to generate nationwide recognition in the future which could also help to explain this rise in interest in Union. WI&.ll7f IE lF ({[JTr (C({J)PJ(C({J)J&.Jlj)Yf NJEW§ ! Student Forum Spotlight The Forum briefly discussed a variety of issues this week including sixth week reports, the recent move of SDT, grant of housing for Gamma Phi Beta, and the possibility of working with We Care About U Schenectady at 421 Paige . Street. The most important issue raised was the fact that only around 25-30 clubs had submitted sixth week reports to Nina Smilari, Vice President of Administration. The Forum was particularly concerned with . this because under the laws of . the constitution, the Forum is required to freeze funding from clubs not submitting a report. As a result, the Forum will be forced to take this action against any club not filing a report. The Forum was both happy and surprised by the recent housing changes that were instituted for Gamma Phi Beta and Sigma Delta Tau. The Forum expressed its pleasure with the fact tht Gamma Phi had been given a house after weeks of debate within the S.A.C. and its subsequent proposal to the Office of Residence Life that a house be made available. However, the Forum was surprised by the move of SDT to Potter. Other issues that were brought up included the upcoming research day that will be held on Accepted Candidates Day. In addition to having presentations made by students selected to attend NCUR (The National Conference for Undergraduate Research), students who arc interested in presenting papers can talk with Dean Schadler. Finally, a motion was made and passed to approach the We . Care About U Schenectady committee to begin helping their housing renovations at 421 Paige Street. After much debate, it was decided that pending the club's approval, the Forum would begin working with them this spring. The next Forum meeting will be held in Davidson Lounge tonight at 8:30 p.m. All students arc welcome and encouraged to attend this meeting. The Forum is extremely interested in hearing about the concerns, problems, and questions of students on any and all campus issues. Graduate and Continuing Studies On Tuesday, March 5, Union's Division of Graduate and Continuing Studies will be co-sponsoring an all-day workshop with the Capital Region Teacher Center. The topic will be \Celebrating the new teacher: Sharing the future.\ It focuses on the Mentor-Intern programs throughout the region and affirms the value of collaboration and shared experience among the key players. For more information, call 370-6648.

·Page 4 CONCORDJENSIS, February 28, 1991 ANNOUNCEMENT The Philosophy Department announces a competition for essay prizes traditionally awarded at Prize Day: The Celia Glaubach Prize - awarded to a student who has shown an interest in the cultural significance of the Bible from a secular point of view by submitting a work on one of the · following subjects: literary and textual criticism of Biblical subjects; development and production of a short story or play based on the Bible; Bi hlical archaeology; Biblical historicity, philosophy of the Bible. The Milton Hymes Sternfeld Prize • awarded for the be~t original essay in philosophy by a member of the senior class. Entries for prize competition should be submitted pseudonymously to Mrs. Marianne Snowden, Humanities 215, not later than 12:00 noon on March 15, 1991. The author's name and campus address should be enclosed in a separate envelope keyed to . the pseudonym. Student Forum ON THE ROAD * * * * Thursday, Feb. 28 8:30PM Davidson Lounge with FOOD * * * * All Students Invited You asl(ed for Tradition·s ·of Improvisation presents TOM GURALNICK Multi-Instrumentalist Comp·oser Inventor Friday, March I,. 1991 8 P.M. Performing Arts Studio Arts Building Union College Sponsored by the DEPARTMENT OF THE ARTS and with a grant from MEET THE COMPOSER UNION COLLEGE a computer that's real college material. BOOKSTORE COLLEGE CENTER We heard you. The ideal computer for college needs certain things. Like a mouse, to make it easy to use. Preloaded software, that'll let you create impressive papers with graphics and spreadsheets. And great tools, like a notepad, calendar and cardfile. It should also be expandable, so it can grow with your needs. The IBM Personal System/2• has all this at a special student price and affordable loan pay- ments. And on a dilferent note, you can get a great low price on the Roland\ Desktop Music System that transforms your IB~ PS/2e with Micro Channel\ into . an ex<;!iting, comprehensive music maker. The PS/2 is perfect for college because you told us just what you needed. And no one knows what it takes to be real oollege material better than you. HOURS MONDAY -FRIDAY 8:45 - 4:30 SATIJRDAYS 11:00-3:00 TELEPHONE 518 370-6188 FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONTACT MR. CHARLES BOSWORTI-I •ThiS offer IS available only to qualified college students. faculty and staff that purchase ISM Selected AcadeiTIIC Sdulions through partiCipating campus outlets, 1811.11 800.222-7257 or IBM Auuwnzed PC Dealers cert!fled to remarket IBM Selected Academic Solutions. Olders are subjCCito ava~ebility. PrteeS are subject to change and IBM nisy.,..ltl\tdlaw the offer at arty t1me v.1thout wrdten notiCe. IBM •. Personal Syslem/2. PS/2 and Mtclo Channel are regtstemd trademarks of lnternat10081 Bustness Mach1nes Corporation. ®Roland 1& a registered trademarl! of Roland Cor;:lorahon. US. \IBM CO!PoraiiOrl 1991 ' ! -~J l

I ! ~ ool < E' o . . CONCORDJENSIS, February 28, 1991 Page 5 FEATURES • ans GISOn By CARL R. FRlEDRICH, Jr. I've decided to take a little break from whatever the norm is this week to discuss a troubling issue which has existed at Union at least as long as I've been here. It's an issue which has confused me, and as far as I know, others as well. It has to do wi tb. the parking circle nexuo Carnegie. Allow me to paint a scenario. An asphalt traffic circle exists. But at the entrance way to this popular mid-campus spot are barricades, much like the ones used by police which say \Police Line Do Not Cross (this means you, punk!).\ Now, correct me if I'm wrong, but what's the deal here? Is it a traffic circle, or not? Why can't cars pass through th.ere? Well, some of the reasons may be obvious. True, car drivers often use the circle as a means for convenience. The privilege has been abused to the point where Union CoUege may possess one of the world's only drive-through mailrooms. Drivers also tend to speed in the area, .scaring to death more than one hung-over pedestrian, who is usually admiring the gorgeous Idol rather than the Honda with a \Save the Whales\ bumper-sticker on it, lining them up in its sights. Yes, abuses abound. However, I still cannot 11nderstand why the thing is there.· If the powers that be don't want cars there, why does the temptation to drive there exist in the first place? (By the way, is the fine the same if you're parked in the circle as it would be if you were parked on the Rugby field? Just wondering.).. Perhaps an equitable solution can be reached. I propose that the above mentioned parking circle be ripped up (and you can take the ldol with it). In fact, someone Forbidden Broadway \ This musical smash has been running in New York for 6 years. Poking fun at Broadway's biggest shows and brightest stars~ \It's Where Broadway's Past, Present and Future Merrily Collide.\ Tickets on Sale at the Student Activities Office, CC408 One Perf.ormance Only • LIMITED TICKETS • DATE: PLACE: .PRICE: March 7, 1991 (Thursday) Proctor's Theater Students $7.50 Faculty/Staff $13.25 should pass this idea along to the CE department for further discussion ala Senior Project. After ripping the beast up, I would enlarge the existing parking lot behind the berm, by extending it towards Scoial Sciences by, say, ten feet. Then with the leftover space, we could build a courtyard. This would serve as an esthetic extension to Carnegie where students and faculty alike could commune with natrne and each other. The parking area would be safely out of sight (and larger), and we would not have to require a security guard to sit l.:eside the barricades, enforcing Come and practice your Spanish in a ffM!ll wmz i! Spanish Coffee Hour Thursdays at the Dutch Hollow (near piano) From 4:00 to 5:00 PM Coffee and cookies provided by the Spanish Club See you there!! ADIOS ! ! the no parking rule which the students will break l.he moment his back is turned anyway. (I'm sure the guards really enjoy sitting there, too.) I don't know if this idea could work. but to me at least it sounds good on paper. Either give up, let people use the traffic circle, or get rid of it. Right now it exists Sans Raison. Maybe it's time to flash a big \U\ iq the sky and call Union's superfriends, \We Care About U\. I'm sure they would be glad to champion it-- if it's politically correct. Ah well, another week goes by. P.S., if the Idol ever disappears, I didn't do it. SENIOR PRINTING DAY CHUCROO~ HUMANITIES BASEM:ENT EVERY SATURDAY, 12:00-E:OO PH Free Pclntln11 an Rainbows Free Jma~:ewrlter- cop!~ Sl'ECfAL RATES On Mac Laser Printer ror Seniors on Satllrday 10/• pare SS.CO mf1XImLim pu dny • TELECOMMUNICATIONS TIPS FOR STUDENTS WHO CALL MEXICO: Beginning Feb. 1, 1991, callers dialing area codes 706 and 905 to reach Mexico will hear a message rrom AT&. T saying that they'll have to use international dialing to complete their catts. (See pg. 10 \Dialing Instructions\ in your Intro to IBX, Union College Student Telecommunications Service Policy and Procedures Manual. Yes! J'U help save endangered wildlife wherever it is threatened, whenever it is threatened. 1 Ju1.ve enclosed a check to World Wildlife Fund for$ ---- Mr./Mrs. Miss/Ms.------------ Address --------- __ _ City ______ _ State---- Zip---- Pleue enc:IDM your tax..deductiblt! check ft!ong Wlth th11 rorm end retun to World Wildlife Fund 1250 Twenty-Fourth Street. NW Washmgton, DC 20037

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, Februtlry 28, 1991 Special Lecture Gender and Power Mary Zepernick President MISSING Women's International League for Peace & Freedom Ma·rch 5, Tuesday,. s.s. 103 The Spanish Club presents the movie: \Skyline\ (with English subtitles) This Friday, March 1, 1991 at 7:00P.M. CC 4th Floor Lounge DON'T MISS IT! ! ADIOS!!! \ NIKQl F2 (seria1 #7U6279) with NIKKOR 5511111. MACRO LmSft-980973. 'JHIS CNmRA AND um ·WAS TAKFJil FlUf mE PHO'.OOGRAPHY JAB Tml' S ·OFFICE m THE ARl'S B01JD:nl';. PLFASE RB'IDRN 'liiE CAMERA TO SHCURI\l.Y or Cl\LL SECIJRI'I'Y and/or THE ARTS DEP.ARl'ttftll.' ( 6201) lfi'IE. ANY INFORMATICif. The serial nuabers are bei.nq circulated with all the proper autborities. We need the camera and .lens backo Any info.nmation or assistance will be greatly appreciated. Come talk with ... President Hull Thurs. Feb. 28 - TODAY 3-4 p.m.- College Center Atrium Tell him your: Suggestions Compliments Complaints ·. . . . No Time for Lines, Hop on the nights, get some good eats without the wait. Check out the nightly specials Only a Meal Card Punch and you are outta there

Page 6 CONCORDIENSJS, February 28, 1991 Special Lecture Gender and Power Mary Zepernick President MISSING Women's International League for Peace & Freedom March 5, Tuesday .. s.s. 103 The Spanish Club presents the movie: \Skyline'' (with English subtitles) This Friday, March 1,1991 at 7:00 P.M. CC 4th Floor Lounge DON'T MISS IT! ! ADIOS!!! NIKON F2 (serial. #7116279) with NIKKOR 55nm MACRO ~80973. 'IHIS Cl\HERA AND YNS WAS TAKFN FRCM '1'HE PII<1.['{X;RAPH lAB TEX:ll' S OFFlCE IN 'lHE ARTS BOJLI)n«;. PI..FASE RE\lURN 'I'BE CAMERA TO SECURITY or CALL sm:JRITY and/or '!HE ARTS DEPARLMml' (6201) WITH ANY INFORMATirn. The serial numbers are being circulated with a11 the proper authorities. We need the camera and I.ens back. lm.y information or assistance will be greatly appreciated. Come talk with ... President Hull Thurs. Feb .. 28 m TODAY 3-4 p.m .. College Center Atrium Tell him your: Suggestions Compliments Com plaints . . . . No Time for Lines, Hop on the nights, get some good eats without the wait. Check out the nightly specials Only a Meal Card Punch and you are outta there

CONCORDIENSIS, February 28,. 1991 Page 7 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES EYE ON THE WORLD By ED MENKE Thoughts on the Warsaw Pact's E:nding By ED MENKE On Monday, the 25th, theW arsaw Pact disbanded, bringing to a close a dark chapter in the history of international relations. This fraternity of Eastern-Bloc countries, while being politically inactive as a unit for the last couple of years, has still remained a . symbol of the \bad guys\ of the Cold War for the past 36 years. So why isn't all of Europe singing, \Ding dong, the witch is dead! Which old witch? The wicked witch! Ding, dong, the wicked witch is dead!\ Let's figure this out with a little history lesson. First, the basics. NATO was formed in 1949. As we all know, West Germany joined NATO, distancing itself from its Eastern neighbors. Six years ·tater, in 1955, the Soviet Union and Eastern-Bloc countries claimed that they, too, needed a sort of alliance among themselves to protect from foreign aggressors and to provide, as NATO does, a means for advice (and aid, in some cases) from other member-countries. Hence, they formed the Warsaw Pact in direct response to the forming of NATO six years earlier. But why six years later? Let's be honest. If the Soviet Union and the other countries in the Eastern Bloc really wanted the Warsaw Pact as a response to NATO and West Germany's joining of NATO, then they wouldn't have waited for six. years until they acted. So, then, why did they want to form such a group? Professor Charles Gati, in his book \The Bloc That Failed\ writes that many people view the forming of the Warsaw Pact as a way for the Soviet Union to keep its eye on the remaining European countries and to keep them in line. One important incident which occurred in 1955 was the neutralization of Austria All of the troops which were stationed in Austria (Soviet, British, French, and American) were pulled out, giving the Soviet Union one less country to keep a hold on. In forming the Warsaw Pact, the Soviet Union could place its troops anywhere in the member-countries that it wanted, thus ~~, eping tabs on the much smaller Eastern Bloc. This Soviet dominance of Eastern Europe was one major part (there were many others) of the Cold War which ensued and ended just recently. Okay, end of today's lesson (for more, read Professor Gati's book). When I saw on television that The Wall had come down, that was a big story. When I learned of Nicolae Ceausescu's fate in Romania, that was a big story, too. When I saw once- Communist countries being taken over by the will of the people, that was a big story, too. But when I heard that the Warsaw Pact has dissolved, it wasn't as big a story as it could have been. Because of the dramatic events which have taken place in Europe over the last year and a half, the Warsaw Pact was diminished to a mere figurehead, a small reminder of what once was. a powerless group of countries whose interests have grown in different directions. But a good reminder it can be to us. It can make us think about how ugly hatred can be, or how powerful political ideology can be. It can make us think about the incredible changes that this world has seen over the past year and a half. It can make us think of what the future has in store for us. and what we can do to make the future better than the past and the present. It can make some of us think of what the world was like when we were young. It can make others think of what the world was like before we were young. The important thing is that it makes us think. Save the Whales, the Dolphins & the Planet. GREENPEACE P.O. Box 37ZO, Washington, D. C. 20007 . New Course On Japan In The Spring Term! A new course called \Understanding the Japanese\ (East Asian Studies 010) will be taught this spring by Dr. Roy Starrs, Assistant Professor Japanese Language and Literature. Designed specificaHy for students planniQg to go to Japan but open also to anyone curio11s about \what makes the Japanese tick,\ this course wHI explore Japanese culture in all its aspects. from the language and literature to philosophy and the arts. Though not a . language course, certain key Japanese words and phrases necessary for understanding the culture will be introduced. Course readings will be supplemented by both documentary and feature films. Readings will include Takao Suzuki's Words in Contest; A Japanese Perspective on Language and Culture, Ian Buruma's Behind the Mask: On the Sexual Demons, Sacred Mothers, Transvestites, Gangsters, Drifters and Other Japanese Cultural Heroes, Howard Hibbett's Contemporary Japanese Literature: An Anthology of F,iction, Film and Other Writing Since 1945, Edwin Reischauer's The Japanese, D.T.Suzuki's Zen in Japanese Culture, Philip Kapleau's The Three Pillars of Zen, Ezra Vogel's Japan as No. 1: Lessons for America and Ivan Morris' The Nobility of Failure: Tragic Heroes in the History of Japan. ATTENTION French Club Dates: Today (and every Thursday): Coffee Hour 4-5 P.M. in the Piano COrner of the C.C. Monday, March 4th: \La Petite Voleuse,\ a movie (with subtitles) at 7 PM in the 4th floor lounge of the C.C GOOD NEWS! Foreign language news programs will be shown in the Language Lab (HU 010). All are welcome to attend. Schedule: MONDAYS, WED:\ESDAYS & FRIDAYS: FRENCH 1:30 PM GERMAN. 3:00 PM SPANISH 4:00PM TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS: HEBREW 1:30 PM CHINESE 2:00 PM JAPANESE 3:00PM RUSSIA..\' 4:00PM Come and watch the news! News programs are also transmitted from many other countries and will be recorded upon request. Faculty are welcome to bon-ow tapes. Ordinarily, they are kept in the lab for t1vo weeks. For more infonnation, call Carol Snyder, Language Lab Tech.\lician X6216. LANGUAGE LAB HOURS: MONDAY-FRIDAY 8:30AM-4:30PM SUNDAY-THURSDAY 7:00PM-9:00PM During the Spring trimester, the Modem Languages Department will be offering a new course:1viLT -16. The course, taught by Professor Jernakoff, will cover masterpieces of Russian literature in translation and will focus on the works of Pushkin, Lermontov, Gogo I, Turgenev, Dostoevsky and Tolstoy. ML T - 16 may count for Gen. Ed.: Eu- LS as well as being a category (A) and (D) course. LANGUAGE TABLE SCHEDULE, WINTER 1991 Dutch Hollow Dining RoQrn Everyday, 12:30-1 :30 Mondays French, Hebrew Tuesdays Chinese Wednesdays Spanish Thursdays German Fridays Russian, Japanese .. ~ . .. Monday March 11 CC406 7:30p.m. The Practice of Love - 1 n German With English Subtitles (90 min., color) Directed by Valie Export. A Dazzling cinematic tour-de force, combining a thriller narrative with experimental images to tell the story of Judith, a journalist whose investigation of a murder implicates her two male lovers. Judith discovers that in a world of male power struggles, love is complicit, marginal or impossible. The film makes a stunningly coherent indictment of male-dominated society.

I I i 1'. i CONCORDIEN.SJS, February 28, 1991 Page 7 INTERN A TIO,NAL FEATURES EYE ON THE WORLD By ED MENKE Thoughts Warsaw Pact's on the Ending By ED MENKE On Monday, the 25th, the Warsaw Pact disbanded, bringing to a close a dark chapter in the history of international relations. This fraternity of Eastern-Bloc countries, while being politically inactive as a unit for the last couple of years, has still remained a symbol of the \bad guys\ of the Cold War for the past 36 years. So why isn't all of Europe singing, \Ding dong, the witch is dead! Which old witcll? The wicked witch! Ding, dong, the wicked witch is dead!\ Let's figure this out with a little history lesson. First, the basics. NATO was formed in 1949. As we aJI know, West Germany joined NATO, distancing itself from its Eastern neighbors. Six years later, in 1955, the Soviet Union and Eastern-Bloc countries claimed that they, too, needed a sort of alliance among themselves kl protect from foreign aggressors and to provide, as NATO does, a means for advice (and aid, in some cases) from other member-countries. Hence, they formed the Warsaw Pact in direct response to the forming of NATO six years earlier. But why six years later? Let's be honest. If the Soviet Union and the other countries in the Eastern Bloc really wanted the Warsaw Pact as a response to NATO and West Germany's joining of NATO, then they wouldn't have waited for six years until they acted. So, then, why did they want to form such a group? Professor Charles Gati, in his book \The Bloc That Failed\ writes that many people view the forming of the Warsaw Pact as a way for the Soviet Union to keep its eye on the remaining European countries and to keep them in line. One important incident which occurred in 1955 was the neutralization of Austria. All of the troops which were stationed in Austria (Soviet, British, French, and American) were pulled out, giving the Soviet Union one less country to keep a hold on. In forming the Warsaw Pact, the Soviet Union could place its troops anywhere in the member-countries that it wanted, thus 1_, ~ping tabs on the much smaller Eastern Bloc. This Soviet dominance of Eastern Europe was one major part (there were many others) of the Cold War which ensued and ended just recently. Okay, end of today's lesson (for more, read Professor Gati's tlook). When 1 saw on television that The Wall had come down, that was a big story. When I learned of Nicolae Ceausescu's fate in Romania, that was a big story, too. When I saw once- Communist countries being taken over by the will of the people, that was a big story, too. But when I heard that the Warsaw Pact has dissolved, it wasn't as big a story as it could have been. Because of the dramatic events which have taken place in Europe over the last year and a half, the Warsaw Pact was diminished to a mere figurehead, a small reminder of what once was, a powerless group of countries whose interests have grown in different directions. But a good reminder it can be to us. It can make us think about how ugly hatred can be, or how powerful political ideology can be. It can make us think about the incredible changes that this world has seen over the past year and a half. It can make us think of what the future has in store for us, and what we can do to make the future better than the past and the present. It can make some of us think of what the world was like when we were young. It can make others think of what the world was like before we were young. The important thing is that it makes us think. Save the Whales, the Dolphins & the Planet. GREENPEACE P. 0. Box 3720, Washington. D. C. 20007 New Course On Japan In The Spring Term! A ne\lll course called \Understa11ding the Japanese\ (East Asian Studies 010) will be tal!lght this spring by Dr. Roy Starrs, Assistant Professor JapaRese Language and Literatu r~. Designed specificall~ for students p tanning to go to Japan but open also t<l anyone curious about \V~Ilat makes the Japanese tiel,\ this course will explore JaBJanese culture in all its aspects, from the language and literature to philosophy and the arts. Tllough not a language course, certain key Japanese words and phrases necessary for understanding the culture will be introduced. Course readings will be supplemented by both documentary and feature films. Readings will include Takao Suzuki's Words in Contest; A Japanese Perspective on Language and Culture, Ian Buruma's Behind tbe Mask: On the Sexual Demons, Sacred Mothers, Transvestites, Gangsters, Drifters and Other Japanese Cultural Heroes, Howard Hihhctt's Contemporary Japanese Literature: An Anthology of Fiction, Film and Other Writing Since 1945, Edwin Rcischaucr's The Japanese, D.T.Suzuki's Zen in Japanese Culture, Philip Kaplcau's The Three Pillars of Zen, Ezra Vogel's Japan as No. l: Lessons for America and Ivan Morris' The Nobility of Failure: Tragic Heroes in the History of .Japan. ATTENTION French Club Dates: Today (and every Thursday): Coffee Hour 4-5 P.M. in the Piano COrner of the C.C. Monday, March 4th: \La Petite Voleuse,\ a movie (with subtitles) at 7 PM in the 4th floor lounge of the C.C GOOD NEWS! Foreig;n ianguage news programs h·ill h, shu~n1 tn :·:<\ LangufJge Lab (HU 010!. Alla:re welcome to attend. Schedule: .\'10.-..;DAYS, WED.\'ESDAYS & FRIDAYS: .fRENCH 1:.30 P:\1 <:ER\.1A~ 3:00 P:\1 .5PA;'\;IS!I ..j;QO P.\1 TCESDAYS & THL'RSDA YS: !ll£BREW 1:30 P:Vl OII\ESE 2:00 PM J.~A .. '\ESE 3:00 P:¥1 ].i.:SSl.\.~ 4:00 PM Come and watch tlze news! .Ve11s programs are also uansmittcJ from m..;ny '•rJza (, >;,n:r:, ~ and WE.i/ be recorded upon request. F uculty ur,• a clc·vr>u· ;, ' bonoYv- tapes. Ordinarz~v, thC): are kept i1z :he Lb _r, •r '\'' weeks. For n<ore infomwtion, call Cam/ S1:ydcr. Ian::11<!gc ! .;!' Tec!z nician. X6216. LAlv'GUAGE L4B HOL 'RS: .\IO.VDAY-FRIDA Y 8: 30A.\f-4 .. ~UP.\1 SUNDAY- TlfL.RSDAY 7:00PM·9.()0f'.\1 During the Spring trimester, the Modem Languages Department will be offering a new course: ML T -16. The couise, taught by Professor J ernakoff, will cover masterpieces of Russian literature in translation and will focus on the works of Pushkin, Lermontov, Gogo I, Turgenev, Dostoevsky and Tol~toy. MLT'- 16 may count for Gen. Ed.: Eu- LS as well as being a category (A) and {D) course. COMING NEXT WEEK: ''Newspaper Coverage of the Gulf War; A Cross .. Cultural Comparison tt by , Kimherlee Brody t: LANGUAGE TABLE SCHEDULE, WINTER 1991 Dutch H()llow Dining Room Evezyday, 12:30-1 :30 Mondays Monday Marchi 1 CC406 7:30p.m. The Practice of Love - In German With English Subtitles (90 min., color) Directed by Valie Export. Fre ncb, Hebrew Tuesdays Chinese Wednesdays Spanish Thursdays German Fridays Ru~sian, Japanese A Dazzling cinematic tour-de force, combining a thriller narrative with experimental images to tell the story of Judith, a journalist whose investigation o1 a murder implicates her two male lovers. Judith discovers that in a world of male power struggles, love is complicit marginal or impossible. The film makes a stunningly coherent indictment of male-dominated society.

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, February 28, 1991 . ; ... ' ·, . . . . . , \ . ' ' . . . . .. . ' \ . . . ' ' ' ' Union College Concert Presents~ Committee Strange Arrangement Where: College Center Atrium When: Music covers by: Originals Friday, Time: March 4:30 1, 1991 p.m. to 7:30 Crosby, Stills, Nash, Rolling Stones Beatles and Young Led Zepplin The Who Pink Floyd Talking heads Doobie Brothers Grateful Dead and more . •... Free Food and Beverage ' • See You There ·. p.m. ' ' • • . . . . . . . . . . ' ' . . ' ' . . '' ' . ·. . Bringing New Freedom of Expression to the College Faculty The IBM Advanced Academic Svstem can free you to do v.hat you do best: imp~t knowledgt.> to your students. - The IIHI -\chan<'ed \cadt•mi<· Systt•in You can compose and design your own lectures and course materials-even add animation to stimulate interest and understanding. You can create imaginative literature for class or administrati\e needs with the systems graphics and desktop publishing capabilities. You can create an Interactive environment with the system's Classroom Presentation Option. By means of student response keypads, your class can react to questions or discussion points projected on a screen. From research to -~ ~·­ :• - ...... ~ ., ........ ,. ' .... classroornlectures,fron1 grading papers to ad- nlirtistrative and personal tasks, the system can help you be more pro- ductive and creative. Built-in tutorials and faculty-written exam- ples free you from a long learning process. Easily recognizable iL'Ons eliminate the need to type commands. You simply point your mouse to select and move through programs. The Advanced Academic System is avail- able with three models of the IBM Personal Svstem/2~: Model70 (121), Model 55 SX (061) and the portable Model P70 (121). Each model comes \ . preloaded with many \ software programs ' including Microsoft® Windows\ 3.0 and Asymetrix Tool- Book.'\ Each PS/2® UNION COLLEGE BOOKSTORE college center HOURS MON. - FRI. 8:45 - 4:30SAT. 11:00 - 3:00 TELEPHONE 518 370-6188 model features a mouse, .. ·- -- high-speed processing, large memory and ' high-capacity storage. We have listened to the needs.of colle~;e ' faculty and the result is a personal computer solution that is focused on the tasks of higher education. It means new freedom to express your ideas more clearly, more fo!'('efully and · more effectively. For information, visit your campus location or call 1 800 525-4738 for a brochure. I ___ 'ill -=-=~=-~I ::::: .:r~ , FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONTACT \ CHARLES BOSWORTH ~---~'\Ill 3M Personal System/2 and PS/2 are,registered lrademarks oflnlernat•onal Business Maclllnes Corporat1on M<crosoft 1s a reg1stered trade'narK or M1crosoft Corporat1on ~wmoows •s a trademark of Microsoft Corporatron TooiBook '\a trademark of Asymetwr Corporatoon Th1S offer IS avaolaoleonly to qualiliedlriStltl,ltlons and the~r laculty. staftano sludents who purchase IBM PS/2 s through part•c•patmg campus 1ocal1ons Orders are subjeCt to ava11ab1hly ISM may Withdraw thos offer at any time wdhout not•ce. ~IBM Corporat1on 1990

• CONCO.RDJENSIS, February 28, 1991 Page 9 , Vtbtth Saving. ENVIRONMENTAL National Security Is Natural Security By RONNIE D. LIPSCHUTZ September 12 is not a red letter date on anyone's calendar, yet it may someday come ·to be seen as a turning point in the Il).erging of environmental degradation and global politics. For on that date, in 1974, after 50 years .of rule, emperor Hallie SeJassie of EthiQpia was forced from his throne in a revolution triggered by drought and famine and in tum, by an overburdened ecosystem. that finally collapsed under the strain. Ultimately, the revolution brought with it even more deaths in a cycle that continl!es even today· in ongoing Somali and Sudanese civil wars throughout the Horn of Africa. After 20 years, we have become somewhat jaded by the images of African refugees driven from their homes by destitution and violence, seeking shelter and food. But now we are seeing new images. Growing streams of people crossing the U.S.-Mexican border, fleeing from the environmen~l degradation and its accompanying poverty and violence. The environmental t.lcgradation of Central America. And, in Eastern and Central Europe, horrendous levels of pollution and economic conditions are leading to predictions that millions may take the road, heading west. If predictions of global warming and sea level rises are borne out, we may s.ee, yet again, similar images emerging from the low-lying parts of Asia and Africa and the margi11al r uming areas of the world. The environmental refugees could well be the harbinger of a future in which environmental degradation, disastrous economic policies and, in some places, an almost constant state of war combine to create conditions that could threaten global peace and security. Though environmental destruction is not ordinarily thought of as an important factor in international politics, accumulating evidence suggests that this may be changing. To be sure, concerns ab()llt connections between natural resources and national security are nothing new; Thucydidies wrote about it more than 2,000 years ago in T II e Pelo.ponn.esian War. In 1941, Japan attacked Pear 1 Harbor hoping to cut the tightening American toumiqpet around their oil supplies. More recently,\ we have found ourselves involved in such a struggle in the Middle East, even though the war for oil is an anachronism; it is cheaper to pay for the stuff than to fight for it. And, in coming decades, it is likely that the environment will play an even more significant role in global security affairs. \No matter how technolog·ically \developed\ our societies may be, we still rely ou the environment for a variety of basic, essential goods and serv.ices, including soil, water and clean air.\ Writing in Fore i r n Affairs two years ago, Jessica Tuchman Mathews observed that \Global developments ... sugg.est the need for a broadening definition ()f national security to include resource, environmental and demographic issues.\ The fi11al report of an April 1990 meeting convened by the World Resources Institute and the American Assembly concluded that \no more basic threat to national security exists\ than those that face the global environment. And, more recently, Tim Wirth told his Senate colleagues that a host of global environmental problems could lead a planet \beset not by single, great difficulties like the balance of terror, but by a host of complex, interlocking conflicts at a more local scale - many of them involving deep SPAA T-SHIRTS seated cultural beliefs, traditions, and religious convic.ti()ns. To sustain .peace and order in such a world will be illordinantly more difficult than sol'Ving. the classic great powe~s' security problems.\ It is difficult to understand these pr()blems in traditional natio11al sec.urity terms. Could we imagine the United States, someh()w seeing threat to its secllrity~ sending troops into the 1hazilian Amazon to protect the rainforest or, overseeing overpopulation as the pr()blem, into China? Highly onlikely. Where, then, is the threat? The answer: is to be found in the m~ys that we are destroying the very environmental resotJrces on which we so depend. Our civilization is fundamentally rooted in the goods and services provided by the llat\lral environment. No matter bow technologically \de'Veloped\ our societies may be, we still rely on the envir()nment for a variety of basic, essential goods and services, including soil, water, and dean air. If, for S()me reason. the soil has become waterlogged with toxic subst2nc:es, or has washed away, or water is polluted by industlial pollutants or nitrates fromel'.cessive use of synthetic fertiliz;ers, or climate has changed because of defcnestation and desertification, the enviro11mental base may erode or vanisll. Without these vital environmental contributions. the prospects for any country, includi11g our own, are not good. Tbe likelihood of truly severe degradations arising within fhe United States - thereby threatening its political integrity and security - are remote, given its vast territory, technolqgical capabilities, and wealth. But the same cannot be said fm all countries. Many are smaller, poorer, and less able to adaiJL They are more diiectly depe11<lent on renewable resources:, the very ones that On sale next week Wednesday and Thursday • ID College Center Only $8.00 Half of the proceeds benefit: The homeless of Schenectady , ., ,, ~ .. .t .. it. il...t• ...... _... >J, ... ;., <II.._ <II\'\' $1\l ·~·'fil''\ol'lo' \ '~~\\·\\'V\t\'t.,.- ........ ,..~ ......... ~~ ........... ,.., ................ ~ .... 1oo (1. • .10 .... \' .do. 4lo ... ~..,.. ~ -'~O:S.~ ~~~to''' 7'-?,... ~ \'. .. ~ ......... . are most diooinished by wfdespread t!nvironmental degradation. And it is in these countries - primarily those in the developing world - that such extreme C(:)nditions are already emerging. We might well imagine what would happen under these circumstances:: as the environmental base of a country diminished, its economic an.d political viability would also be threatened. 111 sufficiently desperate sit11ations, civil disorder, violence and war would break omt. We might soon begin to- see flows of environmental refugees, crossing borders,. seeking safe refuge (Jodi Jacobsen of Worldwatch writes that the number of e11vironmental refugees today is estimated to be 10 million). We might also witness conflicts between ethnic groups, c.ompeting for increasingly scal'ce land and water resources.,1Lllat could t1llll into cross~border violence, as happened in 1989 between Mauritania and Senegal. \Cruise mis~;iles cannot restore erode~ soil; aircraft carriErs cannot clean polluted sources of water, nuclear weapons can hardly hal1 the destruction of forests .•. \ As these problems become more. and more common, there could be \spilllover\ from domestic quarrels. Once instability and violence begin to appear in the affected countries, other mations might decide to define. such conflicts as \threats\ to tbeir national interests. They might then intervene in thcs<l domestic and regional connicts (as did the United States fo.r ()ther reasons in Central Ame:rica, where environmental C()nditions have played no small part in the continuing deterioration of already weak a11d violence- ridden societiesj. The result could be a futile and debilitating effort to restore \stability and a growing cycle of violence that might, ultimately, come to threaten the stability of the intervening C()lintry as well. What, then, is to be done? We now need to recognize that security involves more than just the application of military p<>wer. Cruise missiles cannot restore eroded soil; aircraft carriers cannot clean polluted sotuces of water (or, for that matter, deal with water scarcity); nuclear weapons can hardly halt the destruction 'of forests and species around the world; and military power cannot address the political C<Jnsequences of endemic impoverishment. The very nature of security is changing, and this makes two things imperative. First, we must begin to acknowledge, as Mathews has said, that \resource environmental and demographic\ problems are security problems. Second, we must realize tbat we have much to learn about tbc changing nature of security if the world is t() become a more peaceful and secure place. As Michael Renner so lucidly stated in Nlltional Security, a 1989 Worldwatch Paper: \While m.ilitary security rests firmly on the competitive strength of individual cou11trics at the direct expense of other nations, environmental security cannot be achieved unilaterally: it both requires and nurtures more stable and cooperative relationships among nations.\ Ronnie D. Lipschutz is Assistant Profess()r of Politics at lhe University ()j California, Santa Cruz. He is the author of Wllen Nations Clash - Raw Materials, Ideology, and F()reign Policy (BalUnger/- Harper and Row, 1989). 1'his article was reprinted witll permission from E- The Environmental Magazine. (S 11bscriptions: $20/yr.) PO Box 6667, Syracuse, NY 13217, (800) 825-0061. @@@@@@®@@@ Breakfast • 1n Bed C.C .. Sign Ups This Week Only $2.00 = Bagel & 0.} . Delivered to Bed IJ~tween 112 hr. period Saturday March 2nd Sunday Mart:h 3rd In The Morning

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, February 28, 1991 ENVIRONMENTAL A GREEN EDUCATION Union Considers New EnvironmenttiM11jon By FRANZ T. LITZ Environmental Editor Are you equipped to develop solutions for the environmental problems facing us? Are you knowledgeable enough to cike part in a community debate on landfills or curbside recycling? D~pcnding on your answer, you may decide that you should take one or more of Union's courses which have an environmental focus, or you might - beginning perhaps as early as next year- decide to major or minor in environmental policy or environmental science. These are the two majors being currently discussed by Union's Environmental Studies Program Committee, which hopes to redefine the College's Commitment to environmental education. Union is not alone in developing or expanding environmental studies programs. E- The Environmental Magazine reports that new programs are popping up all over the country, as colleges and universities scramble to keep pace with student demand. They come at a time when Americans are realizing the ~omplexity of environmental problems, and the possibility of a new fast-growing job market for environmental scientists, engineers, and lawyers. A good number of these programs are interdisciplinary in nature, and for good reason. The complex nature of environmental problems necessitates a broader educational foundation. Physics, philosophy, economics, geology, engineering, biology, chemistry, sociology. and political ,L·iencc arc all fields that arc imporwnt to understanding the dynamics of today's environment. Any environmental studies program, then, needs some exposure in a number of these :trcas. It is precisely this fact that makes Union, a liberal arts college with engineering, an excellent candidate for environmental studies. The College currently offers a major in Environmental Studies, which involves taking six core courses in m:.~thcmatics, computer language, aHJ wall.:r resources, as well J.<.; eight courses from the student's concentration department. An additional ten courses must be lak.cn, including five from a department closely associated with the student field of concentration and five from fidds not associated with this lidd. There arc currently only a handful of Environmental Studies majors. The plan presently in committee would offer several new nptiom on two track<;· a major in cnvironmC\ntal policy, with it\ conc<>ntrat ion in the social sc icncrs, or a major in l'Tl\ ln>llllll'ntal sucnu.'. w1th 1h contcntratlon in the natural and engineering sciences. Studenb may aho have t.he option to mmor in one of these two fields. Th..:: minor offers the student l·<mcerncd with ennronmental prohkm:-. the opportunity to ,·.xplore the topil:~ without a total l:ornmitment to an otvironmental field. Given that cnvironm..::ntal problems relate I<J ~o many different fields, a minor may be an appealing 11ptiun for a good number of studcnL'i in the future. Thl· r~,· ar .. · a llllllll~o.: r < ,,. yuc:-.t io11:-. l < HKC rn ing the .new program tktt have yet to k answered. Which cour:-.es arc essential and tlladorc mu:-,t be a part of the core curriculum? Will new courses he taught in conjunction with the program, or arc the present ofkrings enough? These points and others will n .. ,,·d to he addrc-;scd hdorc the program is put up for approval by the AAC. One thing is certain, however: students arc concerned about the environment, and want to know more about it. They want to know how to deal with some of the most pressing problems cloucl1ng the future of our society and the future of their children in our society. They need to be able lO make sense of thc-.;e complex 1ssues. They need t.o know how to acl l 'nton has already taken a step in the right direction in , •I kring the current cnv iron mental ~tud ies major, but that I ILl jor i\ too broad and has not he en overly attractive to \ltl~knts. A new program like the one currently being c<Hl\idcrcd is needed, and is most welcome. If it is llilpkmcnted, Union would join some of the hcst colleges and univcr;itics in the country in offering a green education. Union .::.lwl~nL~ wuld then leave Union's gates more aware of the challenges that lie ahead, and better equipped to tackle them. Y\brth Saving. Did You Know? Americans receive al:most 2 million· tons of junk mail every year. - About 44°/o of the junk mail is never opened or read. Nonetheless, the average American spends 8 full months of his or her life just opening jun:k mail. Junk mail is made possible by U.S. Postal Service policies that enable bulk mailers to send presorted batches of mail for their minimum rate---1 0.1¢ per piece. -If only 100,000 people stopped their junk mail, we could save about 150,000 trees every year. if a milli-on people did, we could save some 1.5 million trees. Public Lecture * Lesson of Chernobyl\ \The Professor George Marx Chairman, Department of Atomic Physics ·Eotvos University, Budapest Visiting Dudley Professor of Astronomy at Union Abstract • The how and why of the accident • Human behavior during and after the crisis • Radioactive contamination in the USSR and Europe • Short and long term health effects-casualty expectations • Lessons for present and future nuclear power plants Date: Tuesday, March 5, 1991 Time: 4:30 p.m. (Refreshments at 4:00 p.m.) Union College Center Auditorium Place: *Sponsored jointly by th.e Department of Physics, Union College, and by the Dudley Observatory of Union University Please write the Environmental Defense Fund at: 257 Park Ave. South, NY, NY 10010 for a free brochure . ..__...,.,

I I I 1-------: fLENSsiAi 1 Contact Lenses For Less 1 Fas~. Convenient, Direct-to-You savmgs of up to 50%. All Brands I· and Prescriptions in stock, in- 1 .eluding Tints & Disposables. ·I Overnight shipments available. ; I Lenses 100% Guaranteed in fac- I 1 tory-sealed vials. I Call for infonnation and I FREE CATALOG. I 1 800-726-7802 'I I · I : •.(et ~=-rs : a.11~ :.!!'~ ..!!!'.~ '!.... ~J SPRING TERM Register now for MLT-16 \Major Russian Writers of the 19th and 20th Centuries\ Monday, Wednesday, Friday 1:10-2:15 CONCORDIENSIS, February 28, 1991 Union CoJle·ge Theatre Presents CDEDIPVS ' Based on the play by Sophocles February 28 - March 9, 1991 Nott Memorial Theater Celebrating Thirty rears 1967-7991 Page 11 . :- I . ·.• ·, ~·., ... I '.·· -~ ~: ~· ' •. .t \' - • :, . I ·~ .. • ·. ,; ·'> I~ • • \i .. • • '.... ~ \t>- ... -, .. ' . . -. ·. '\ . . . . . . . :.· · .. · ' : i: •. : ':·.,:1'. ':-~i~j~ • , ~ r • • •q • . . ·. ., \ .< J\'.!:C.••''· .• 1 •' :·~· ' ' >\ ',. ~ \ -· _.,.. • :~ . I' • . ·- •. 1! ... ·••· • . ~· t .·; 'e-'.:. 0 • • : • .. \ ••• • • • # • {{~-- . . ~ ... ~ . . . .. ..::-T·f\. ~ ' • • • ••. · :!. -~..... ~., • ,.., •. -':\' . . . . . ,{\ ..... · . ,. '/. :. ·-'·,¥\ ' . . . • . •• • ' ~~;;. ; .. :: .o .. '> • • • • • . •• • .' • . • 4 .. ~; ; .. . ... ·• • .. ••: I ' . . . . . . .... : li:'- . ...,.4:.-. •. • . .. . • • ; ...... o. 1 • '~ ..o , • It~':!'' c.o•,•,., 0\1JPf'' t-M t-OI•tt I'll~ lo\mQ.I' '~jdlt ' :!'1~(-, • ,~ , .· • • ' ir.-11!>t .. )•l111•1t't, \l '01\ t~ .c..-• 1 'fl$~ ..:-.nf • • ,• 'Ill '-Ut\' fol\.:i :J.ali lJ~oiJ .. J Ct~Jhl), WJol\bu: 'tnJ\1 J.!'..:;;,~;_,_~,-~.._· \\\. ,;., . ...!.. ·_. -· ·- • • • : . • •• •• 0:; ; .I W fil . h .. ··.· . . . . . . . ., .•..... a ................ , .. e·········s··· ... · ··wt·····t·· · :. . ).\ .. · .. ,• ' : .. 7 :· ; :·, .. ;: . · .... : .. :~ :-:.:;_ .. ,.:.,.·· . ·,· . ·. •\ . . :: ·. . : : . . . . . ,·. · ... ,·,·. ·. d. h ·· .... 4=:ru··';·····.;····I·*,-o; ___ -~- .. ~---····S····:¥;·:_,_.,ru.,·._:.-.·.·-··p··_· ·_ .•. :o:.:n:···._· · · W· · · -··. ·r·p. ...c,..e··_··am· · .. 1·-~ :··. . ·, 'V' ~·t .. ' '· ~-~~ .... :·· .. :. __ .... ..-- .~. -~ · .. ~·. ·a:J.I-. . . . I l .. . ·{.;., .. : .· ;:-: : . . : .. · '. . . . ·,·,-·:- .. -.;::· ~~t ··:;:·,'·: '• .. .-· . . . . . . . --~ ;:; ·-r . h ~)t·· t;.. ·e> · Q, .... .,.'·.·

Page 12 .CONCORDIENSIS, February 28, 1991 <!tottrJlrhftnsis. L_E_TT_ER_S ------------ -----Founded at Union Collegt; 1877------ Is Nothing Sacred? A Fecorded history and the traditions which initialize that · hist?ry are wh~t defin~ ju~t about any institution, especially one of higher leammg. This bemg the case then, the idea of changing the hallowed school motto to accomodate the admission of women to the college seems ludicrous. At present ~~ as has been the case ov~r the p~st 200 years, the motto r~~ds, Under the laws of Mmerva, we all become brothers. If a select group of poopte succeed in their efforts the motto will be changed to read \Under the laws of Minerva~ w~ all become one-.\ All ~ings considered, the change is not a big one, ~ut then agam that IS not the essential point of .the debate. What ts at th~ _heart ohhe matter is how much value should be placed on tradition. While the motto does not explicitly mention the existence of women at the college (or the future possibility of swh an occurrence), t!Je scr:nantics can imply as they have over the past 20 rears that such IS the case. Regarding the term \brothers\ as scx1st, especially when it is part of a college's motto is unfounded. The same language is used in historical documents such as the Constitution and the D<'.claration oflndependencc, and no one would give serious thought to changing the langu.age of these documents. In fact, doing so 110t only alters the conteYt of the documents, but also the history and tradition behind the documents. If serious cons~derat~on is given to changing the motto, chanc~s are consideratiOn would also need to be given to changmg tlle words of the Alma Mater and even the college's charter. No doubt the domino effect would come into play and every facet of college life which encompasses the action of male and .female students at Union would need to be reviewed to rcstnct the usage of so-called \sexist\ language. To some degr~·promoti~g. the change, if absolutely necessary, could be done With all pohctes and documents which are being created- at the present time. This undeniably would prevent the same problem from occurring, say, 20 years from now. But changmg the school motto, one of the most prized possessions of the college is a blatant act of disrespect for the values placed on tradition. Protesters: The Next G.eneration There was an anti-war demonstration in Albany last Thursday, before the ground war was officially underway. Early arrival to the designated site of the assembly showed a rather paltry turnout consisting mostly of 1960s hippie-beatnik-Vietnam types. A couple of college students were left to wonder whether there was a new generation of war protesters, or whether war protests have skipped. a generation. They have not. The small assembly turned into a capital district-sized crowd of better than 500 and by some estimates upwards of 1,000 as the group turned toward the State Capitol. Almost everyone displayed a sign with a slogan, some questioning the merits of any war, some singing the merits of peace, and others bearing personal attacks against the leadership of the nation. But perhaps the most powerful sign was one borne by a raggedy-clad, unshaven man, whose sign read \Comprimise (sic) Before Another Dies,\ and had a peace sign-- upside down-- in the bottom righ.t corner accmpanied by the words \Vets for (peace)\. The errors he made on his sign may be an example of some of the ill-effects of Vietnam that we are still trying to overcome. A couple of marchers were carrying a body bag. As the march proceeded through the .streets of downtown Albany, one group met up with another and then another, and soon the gathering was a fascinating hybrid between the 'Sixties generation and our own generation. At first it seemed that the older group was the real impetus behind the demonstration. They were the ones who were leading the chants and had organized the meeting places and times, and had drawn up signs for those who did not bring their own. But then the students from Vassar, and nard, and SUNY Albany, and some local high schools, met up wilh the modest contingent of Union students. One of the biggest banners read, \Student Action Against The War.\ The series of speakers at the steps of the Capitol consisted firstly of tile older types, but then a SUNY Albany student took the microphone, and he was followed by the most powerful speaker of all-- an Albany high school student who spoke with more fire and zeal than any of the others as he pointed out inconsistencies in the United . States' foreign policy, and injustices at home that he said should be given more attention. The older protesters then proclaimed that the future of our country no longer lies with them. but with the students-- and protesters-· oftoday. Fight for Pro~Choice!\ To the Editor: We, the members of the Pro- Choice group, would like the Union College community to know we exist. While most people ·think that the issue of Pro-Choice is only important during election years, the recent onslaught of anti-abortion legislation being· proposed in state senates across the country proves otherwise. Thus, it continues to be important to keep people aware of current issues such as parental consent. Voting is only one way of influencing state and national legislatures. Lobbying, as well, can be effective and we as a group plan on participating in the lobbying system in Albany this spring. In addition to lobbying, we are also involved in the escort service for planned parenthood. Most importantly, we tiy to educate ourselves and others on the Pro-Choice view and its influence on our society. We would like those people interested in joining our efforts to attend upcoming meetings. They are held Monday evenings at 6 pm in Social Sciences Room 105. Look for signs around campus. For more information write Box #1907 or #2,046. Sincerely, Co-Chairs of Pro-Choice, Eileen Schneider Tracey Sullivan and Pro-Choice members Philosophy Forum Presents: Holism To the Editor: The Philosophy Forum would like to thank Union for . its support. Union's community has once again shown that there are students who will extend themselves to participate in intellectual pursuits. Students have expressed interest in some of the \alternative\ based discussions the Forum has presented. Talks on anarchy as well as alternative education were well received. To finish out the term there will be one more talk on Monday, March 4, 1991 at 8:00 p.m. in room 410 College Center. The final discussion is on the subject of holism. This will entail discussion of holistic health, holistic approach to education and the political ramifications of understanding people holisticalJy. This p.romises to be quite a lively discussion for the holistic attitude challenges much of what we <:onsidered \established knowledge.\ The Philosophy Forum, again, extends an invitation to students, faculty and teachers. Charles Belden '91 Dan Milsky '93 Co-:Presidents Philosophy Forum SDT Moves to Potter To the Editor: We, the sisters of the Sigma Delta Tau women's fraternity, despite recent controversy on the issue, would like to express our positive feeling concerning the recent relocation of our bouse to Potter South. While our fourteen years of residency in South College have provided us with memories which we will eternally treasure, and have also enhanced our attachment to the house, we look forward to the move and welcome the opportunity for change. Despite our affection for our current house, we have suffered throughout the years with its inadequate kitchen, lack of sufficient 'living space, deficiency in legal campus parking, and our inability to make permanent alterations on it - as it is considered a Union College historical landmark. Additionally, while the house most certainly has provided a cozy and \homey\ environment, it has proven to be too cramped for our purposes. The following are among the numerous exciting changes the sisters state they are anxiously awaiting: a great increase in occupancy, a larger living room, a recreation room with a pool table, a laundry room, more -bathrooms, an industrialized kitchen for our adored culinary genius Bruce, a legal campus parking lot, and permission to modify this new Letters to the Editor do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the Editorial Board house to better suit our growing needs. Finally, we would like to thank the administration for this opportunity, and extend our congratulations to the sisters of Gamma Phi Beta on their new house. Jennifer Wallace • ... ~.!.··~ ''\ J,t (,: \'LJ \· -. ~·•·• ' ~ ~ • '# . .._ o.f- #. I ~ I rf ,fi II •• d . .f ~ <f. J/1, ..,_ l.: to .. ~ 'iP '61 • fjl ill' V Jill 'W 'II\ 'Jk .'5; $ I'll 'Ill' ~ .'¥ !<I' '¥ .\'W 1/ :e .Iff I# llo <r JIO V llf' 'I\ 'C' II .Jr.'¥. 9 ,.7' .. ~ • .- ~' ..I' ........ co.' .. \ . ..,. ,.. .... • ....... - .... II<- ~ ;\;. 4 4o. \' -lot .._ ..\. 0 ·,. .,.. ... r ~ .... '!' J> 1'\- \II' '1'1 \' T 'It ,. '1. 'Yt T ..... 1( 7 .,. 'C' ,\\1\ ... V\ 't. \'! ,. '(' \\t. 1t' V .... 'I '7 f 'Y. W • Ill 1oiJ. t ~ \r It * 1o t)< (1. 2> ';t_ f,}

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, February 28, 1991 C!rnnrorbitttsis ----- Fututdc:J ul l/ttiutl Cullege 18ii---- Is Nothing Sacred? . A recorded history and the traditions which initialize that lust?ry are wh~t defin~ ju~t about any institution, especially one of htgher leammg. This being the case then, the idea of changing the hallowed school motto to accomodate the admission of women to the college seems ludicrous. At present ~~ as has been the case over the past 200 years, the motto r~~ds, Under the laws of Minerva, we all become brothers: If a select group of people succeed in their efforts, the motto Will be changed to read \Under the laws of Minerva we all become one .. \ All ~ings considered, the change is not a big one, ?ut then agam that IS not the essential point of the debate. What ts at th~ .heart of the matter is how much value should be placed on tradition. While the motto does not explicitly mention the existence of women at the college (or the future possibility of SJJ ·h an occurrence), the semantics can imply as they have over tnc past 20 ~cars that such is the case. Regarding the term \b!iothers\ as scx1st, especially when it is part of a college's motto IS lwfoundcd. The same language is used in historical documents such as Lhe Cons_titutio~ and the D<'-elaration of Independence, and no one would give scnous thought to changing the Iangu~ge of these documents. In fact, doing so !lOt only alters the comevt of the documents, but also the history and tradition behind the Llt)Cuments. If serious consideration is given to changing the motto chanc~s arc consideration would also need to be given t~ changmg the words of the_ Alma Mata and even the college's charter. No doubt the dommo effect would come into play and every facet of college life which encompasses the action of male and .female students at Union would need to be reviewed to rcstnct the usage of so-called \sexist\ language. To some dcgrc~·promoti~g. Lhe change, if absolutely necessary, could be done wllh all policies and documents which are being created- at the present time. This undeniably would prevent the same problem from occurring, say, 20 years from now. But changmg the ~chool motto, one of the most prized possessions of the college IS a blatant act of disrespect for the values placed on tradition. Protesters: The Next Generation There was an anti-war demonstration in Albany last Thursday, bdorc the ground war was officially underway. Early arrival to the designated site of the assembly showed a rather paltry turnout consisting mostly of 1960s hippie-beatnik-Vietnam types. A couple of college students were left to wonder whether there was a new generation of war protesters, or whether war protests have skipped a generation. They have not. The small assembly turned into a capital district-sized crowd of better than 500 and by some estimates upwards of 1,000 as the group turned toward the State Capitol. Almost everyone Ji~playt:d a sign with a slogan, some questioning the merits of :my war, some singing the merits of peace, and others bearing 111..:r~onal attacks against the lcadcr~hip of the nation. But perhaps tile most powerful sign was one borne by a raggedy-clad, unshaven man, whose sign read \Comprimise (sic) Before Another Dies,\ and had a peace sign-- upside down-- in the buttom right corner accmpanied by the words \Vets for (peace}\. The errors he made on his sign may be an example of some of the J!l-cffects of Vietnam that we arc still trying to overcome. A couple of marchers were carrying a body hag. As the march proceeded through the streets of downtown Albany, one group met up with another and then another, and ~oon the gathering was a fascinating hybrid between the 'Sixties g~neration and our own generation. At first it seemed that the older group was the real impetus behind the demonstration. They were the ones who were leading the chants and had organized the meeting places and times, and had drawn up signs for those who did not bring their own. But then the students from Vassar, and nard, and SUNY Albany, and some local high schools, met up with the modest contingent of Union students. One of the biggest banners read, \Student Action Against The War.\ The series of speakers at the steps of the Capitol consisted firstly of the older types, but then a SUNY Albany student took th~ microphone, and he was followed by the most powerful \pcakcr of all-- an Albany high school student who spoke with more fire and zeal than any of the others as he pointed out inconsistencies in the United States' foreign policy, and injustices at home that he said should be given more attention. The older protesters then proclaimed that the future of our country no longer lies with them, but with the students-- and protesters-~ of today. LETTERS Fight for Pro-Choice! To the Editor: We, the members of the Pro- Choice group, would like tlle Union College community to know we exist. While most people think that the issue of Pro-Choice is only important during election years, the recent onslaught of anti-abortion legislation being proposed in state senates across the country proves otherwise. Thus, it continues to be important to keep people aware of current issues such as parental consent. Voting is only one way of influencing state and national legislatures. Lobbying, as well, can be effective and we as a group plan on participating in the lobbying system in AJbany this spring. In addition to lobbying, we are a.Jso involved in the escort service for planned parenthood. Most importantly, we try to educate ourselves and others on the Pro-Choice view and its irtfl. uence on our society. We would like those people interested in joining our efforts to attend upcoming meetings. They arc held Monday evenings at 6 pm in Social Sciences Room 105. Look for signs around campus. For more information write Box #1907 or #2046. Sincerely, Co-Chairs of Pro-Choice, Eileen Schneider Tracey Sullivan and Pro-Choice members Philosophy Forum Presents: Holism To the Editor: The Philosophy Forum would like to thank Union for its support. Union's community has once again shown that there are students who will extend themselves to participate in intellectual pursuits. Students have expressed interest in some of the \alternative\ based discussions the Forum has presented. Talks on anarchy as well as alternative education were well received. To finish out the tenn there will be one more talk on Monday, March 4, 1991 at 8:00 p.m. in room 410 CoJilege Center. The final discussion is on the subject of holism. This will entail discussion of holistic health, bolistic approach to education a11d the political ramifications ()[ understanding people holistically. This promises to be quite a lively discussion for the holistic attitude challenges much of what we considered \established knowledge.\ The Philosophy Forum, again, extends an invitation to students, faculty and teachers. Charles Belden '91 Dan Milsky '93 Co-Presidents Philosophy Forum SDT Moves to Potter To the Editor: We, the sisters of the Sigma Delta Tau women's fraternity, despite recent controversy on the issue, would like to express our positive feeling concerning the recent relocation of our house to Potter South. While our fourteen years of residency in South College have provided us with memories which we will eternally treasure, and have also enhanced our attachment to the house, we look forward to the move and welcome the opportunity for change. Despite our affection for our current house, we have suffered throughout the years with its inadequate kitchen, lack of sufficient living space, deficiency in legal campus parking, and our inability to make pennancnt alterations on it - as it is considered a Union College historical landmark. Additionally, while the house most certainly has provided a cozy and \homey\ environment, it has proven to be too cramped for our purposes. The following are among the numerous exciting changes th.e sisters state they are anxiously awaiting: a great increase in occupancy, a larger living room, a recreation room with a pool table, a laundry room, more bathrooms, an industrialized kitchen for our adored culinary genius Bruce, a legal campus parking lot, and permission to modify this new Letters to the Editor do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the Editorial Board house to better suit our growing needs. Finally~ we would like to thank the administration for this opportunity, and extend our congratulations to the sisters of Gamma Phi Beta on their new house. Jennifer Wallace r.: ,, l . i

CONCORDIENSTS, FeJJr~t.ary 28, 1991 Page 13 Provocative Disection To the Editor: On May 4, 1970, at Kent University in Ohio, four civilians were gunned down by National Guardsmen during an anti\ Vietnam War protest. Two of the dead were demonstrators, two were passexs-by. This is the only time .in U.S. history that Americans have fired on American students. Twenty years ago, college students felt they were at the center of what was happening in American society. They believed that they woul<.J. help shape the future, not be shaped by it. Now, twenty years later a different generation is in college. This generation tends to be more passive, materialistic and apathetic. Letters to the Next Generation is a movie that looks at Kent State twenty years later. It is a contrast between the 60's and 70's activism and the powerlessness that students tend to feel today. James Klein, director and producer of the documentary, interviews both student and faculty at Kent. He finds that students are shaped by the events around them. Getting ahead in a competitive world, financial success and material wealth are the major goals. Tom Lough is a sociology professor. lie is seen in the film teaching a class :<>ll utopian societies. Lough: the students I'm teaching today were two yeus old in 1970. They are mere comfortable than students in the 60's. Question: What kinds ·Of questions are they asking? Lough: Not many. A critic from the Boston Herald writes that a Letter to the Next Generatioo i~ more than nostalgia and· far more than a lament. It. is a clear headed, yet cunnin,gly provocative essay that suggests that the seeds of the ne\'t revolution have already been planted and are. in the hopeful words of Kent State Pa.:n African Professor Edward Crosby \going to come bac:k with a force that was never expected.\ How have stu den 1s' perceptions and valu.e s changed?? Students f~r Political Awareness and Action are sponsoring tlli s documentary, a Letter to tliE Next Generation, ne\-t week. Watch for details aboti.t time and place. Jennifer Holmes CDC Environmentally Sound To the Editor: In response to the article last week on campus junk mail, we would like to add our concern about the environment and mention the steps we have taken to reduce or eliminate unnecessary waste. This year, .ve have halted the excessive mailing to our office of outside magazines. eliminated the CDC recruiting updates, redesigned our newsletter to reduce mailings to sophomores and freshmen, and begun recycling our office paper. While we are concerned that students get the informati()n they need about our programs and services. we are taki11g under consideration tile suggestion that students sign up to receive the mailings fr<Jm the CDC. If there are other suggestions to address this important issue, please give us a call or stop in to the CDC.t<> let us know. Sincerely, Joanne Tobiessen Director of CDC Sixties Week March 4th - 8th Monday: 7:00 CC Atrium Forum of. Professors: Speaking of Aspects of the 60's Tuesday: Kent State Wednesday: 12:30 Outside College Center - Civil Rights March Thursday: Writers of the 60's Friday: \Political Leaders of Vietnam\ Coffeehouse: 7:30 Also· scheduled- ,documentary. ''Letters ·to the- ·Next Generation,_, LETTERS Student Body Selfless In s,upport Of Troops To the Union ColLege Community: Last term. many students, faculty. ernployees, and administrators ·Of tile college expressed tbeir .supiXJrt of our U.S. troops in the Gulf by purchasing T -.shit~£ in the College Center. We successfully raised $500 (profit) to 'purcbase non- perishable food items, personal . hygiene products and stationery needs. Many concern.~d people . helped in the effort and I'd like to take this opportllfiity to thank them all. It is a . comforting feeling to know that so many selfles5ly lent a hand to this project. I'd especially like to tbank Sister Joan Vlaun. the We Care About \U\ Committee, Theresa Bett, and all those who sacrificed co11ntless b.ours to make this project a su<:cess. Over the _past 8 weeks, I've received thank you letters from service men and wornen from all over the United States. I thought that the Union College Community would appreciate the following letter that I received from the Department of the Amiy and the Air Force. During a time when young adults are so often disregarded as self-centered, I'm proud to say that our student body proved to be selfless in devoting their time, donations and thoughts to those serving in Desert Storm. Thank you, Kim Olmsted 'To Members of Union College: First, let us say thank you very .. !J1U<;b. for the cards, letters, and packages. Just knowing that people back home are thinking about us and praying for us makes us feel good. Having the support of the American people is what makes our job so rewarding. And believe me it is a welcome change from that time long ago when the American public was not fully behind our soldiers in VietNam, we can't forget that time, though. I'm sure Congress and the military leadership are remembering those years too. Second, let us assure you that we're all safe here and doing well. Needless to say, almost all of us would have much preferred to have spent the holiday seaso11 with our loved ones and friends at home. The cards and letters from everyone back in the good ole U.S.A. help keep us goi:ng and make us proud to be over here, doing our part to help keep world peace. They mean more to u·s than you could every know. We'll keep you in our thoughts and hearts. Thank you again for your prayers, thoughts, and support. The Men and Women of the 34-th Combat Communicatbns Squadron 513 Milil.a.ry Intelligence Oct. A. P.S. A S pecia I Thanks to Kim Olmsted, who has supported me, SP4 Thomas Kreag. 201 MI and all other troops participating in the Gulf Crisis. Confused Values Of A Democratic Nation Dear Editor, If some value is Lmlv believed in, then that value should not be c<Jmpr<JillAII~;ti, reduced or altered in any way which takes away the importance and purpose of thG value. It is iro11ic that in this supposed war for \deomocracy\, \freed<>m\ and \justice\ and in a I1YJJOCritical sense \peace\, we are compromising these very same values: we V~ant the people of Kuwait to be freed ... but our way of accomplishing this goal is to kill. We have avoided all p()ssibilities of a peaceful resolution. A.s we save the blood of one country's citizens, we sacrifice many other countries• citizens. YES. This is justice tbe American way. Our value for lluman life is not upheld universally. It is restrictive and racist. With the e:xception <Jf some crazy people in our w<Jrld (and I do not refer here t() anti-war protestors), I feel it is safe to say that Americans desire peace among peo}lle and among nations. Tbis is a cberished value yet the United States finds it necessary to fool with this value. Since we understand that peace is not always attainable without killing, we accept the premise that war is inevitable. Why do we truly believe this? Probably because we understand that humans are innately aggressive and therefore tension and conflict result and the only resolution is the use of force. We are afraid of the past because we judge everything by our history instead of the future. We are unable to see beyond our history... we are afraid of change. But there are some people who do bother to quesion the history of the world and the history of the United States. These people are willing to be a little more creative and even daring to see a better future. These people are not crazy or irrational simply because they arc critical thinkers. These people may not be foreign policy scholars, diplomats. historians, CIA ag~nts, politicians, economists, executives ... I'm certainly not any of these. People can think and that's what matters because war comes down to n<>thing more than critical thinking. After much \critical thinking\ about war in general, particularly the one we are engaged in this year, I came up with no solutions except that we should have th<Jught a lot more about our objectives and our reasoning. The result of even a little critical thinking is nothing more than a whole lot of serious questions. What makes them serious is that fact that war deals witb much more than political games or military maneuvers. It deals with issues of life and death. No issue deserves more attention and thinking than these. Before we send yet another bomb or fire another shot, I challenge otir leaders and all those who support this war to answer all of the environmental, social, political and economic questions that must be addressed. There are too many questions to justify the killing. Christa Kelleher Class of 1993 386-4387 PAID JOB IN COMMUNITY ORGANIZATION March 1, 1990 12:20- 2:30 College Center 406 Come and learn about organizing for Social Justice Acorn is the largest and most successful low and. moderate income, community organization. We will talk about grassroots community organizing a~orn-style. How do we build voice and power for low-income people? H()W can we fight for and win affordable housing programs, better health care services aiJd improved education in urban areas? · Sponsored by the Department of Sociology and Anthropology

r.: ,, l 'i CONCORDIENSIS, February 28, 1991 Page 13 Provocative Disection To the Editor: On May 4, 1970, at Kent University ia Ohio, four civilians were gunned down by National Guardsmen during an anti-Vietnam War protest. Two of the dead were demonstrators, two were passers-by. This i<s the only time in U.S. history that Americans have fired on American students. Twenty years ago, college students felt they were at the center of what was happening in American society. They believed that they would help shape the future, not be shaped by it. Now, twenty years later a different generation is in college. This generation tends to be more passive, materialistic and apathetic. Letters to the Next Generation is a movie that looks at Kent State twenty years later. It is a contrast between the 60's and 70's activism and the powerlessness that students tend to feel today. James Klein, director and producer of the documentary, interviews both student and faculty at Kent. He finds that students are shaped by the events around them. Getting ahead in a competitive world, financial success and material wealth are the major goals. Tom Lough is a sociology professor. He is seen in the film teaching a class on utopian societies. Lough: the students I'm teaching today were two years old in 1970. They are more co~nfortable than students in the 60's. Question: What kinds of questions are they asking? Lough: Not many. A critic from the Boston. Herald writes that a Letter to the Next GeneraHon is more than nostalgia and far moi'e than a lament. It is a clear headed, yet cunningly provocative essay that suggests that the seeds of the next revolution have already been planted and are, in the hopeful words of Kent State Pan African Professor Edward Cmsby \goiRg to come back with a force that was never expected.\ How have students' perceptions and values changed?? Students for Political Awareness and Action are sponsoring this documentary, a Letter to the Next Generation, next week. Watch for details about time and place. Jennifer Holmes CDC Environmentally Sound To the Editor: In response to the article last week on campus junk mail, we would like to add our concern about the environment and mention the steps we have taken to reduce or eliminate unnecessary waste. This year, .• c have halted the excessive mailing to our office of outside magazines, elimin,tted the CDC recruiting updates, redesigned our rcwsletter to reduce mailings to sophomores and freshmen, and begun recycling our office paper. While we are concerned that students get the information they need about our programs and services, we arc Laking under consideration the suggestion that students sign up to receive the mailings from the CDC. If there are other suggestions to address this important issue, please give us a call or stop in to the CDC .to let us know. Sincerely, Joanne Tobiesscn Director of CDC Sixties Week March 4th - 8th Monday: 7:00 CC Atrium Forum of Professors: Speaking of Aspects of the 60's Tuesday: Kent State Wednesday: 12:30 Outside College Center - Civil Rights March Thursday: Writers of the 60's Friday: \Political Leaders of Vietnam\ Coffeehouse: 7:30 Also scheduled documentary \Letters to the Next Generation\ LETTERS Student Body S.elfless In Support Of Troops To the Union College Community: Last term, many students, faculty, employees, and administrators of the college expressed their support of our U.S. troops in the Gulf by purchasing T -shirts in the College Center. We successfully raised $500 (profit) to purchase non- perishable food items, personal hygiene products and stationery needs. Many concerned people helped in the effort and I'd Hke to take this opportunity to thank them all. It is a comforting feeling to know that so many selflessly lent a hand to this project. I'd especially like to thank Sister Joan Vlaun, the We Care About \U\ Committee, Theresa Bett, and all those who sacrificed countless hours to make this project a success. Over the past 8 weeks, I've received thank you letters from service men and women from all over the United States. I thought that the Union College Community would appreciate the following letter that I received from the Department of the Army and the Air Force. During a time when young adults are so often disregarded as self-centered, I'm proud to say that our student body proved to be selfless in devoting their time, donations and thoughts to those serving in Desert Storm. Thank you, Kim Olmsted To Members of Union College: First, let us say thank you very much for the cards, Ieuers, and packages. Just knowing that people back home are thinking about us and praying for us makes us feel good. Having the support of the American people is what makes our job so rewarding. And believe me it is a welcome change from that time long ago when the American public was not fully behind our soldiers in VietNam, we can't forget that time, though. I'm sure Congress and the military leadership arc remembering those years too. Second, let us assure you that we're all safe here and doing welL N ecdlcss to say, almost all of us would have much preferred to have spent the holiday season with our loved ones and friends at home, The cards and letters from everyone back in the good ole U.S.A. help keep us going and make us proLid to be over here, doing our part to help keep world peace. They mean morl: to us than you could every know. We'll keep you in our thoughts and hcarL'i, Thank you again for your prayers, thoughts, and support. The Men and Women of Lhc 34th Com hat Communications Squadron 513 Military lntclligcncr Dct. A. P.S, A Sr>e cia I Thanks to Kim 01Instcd, who has supported me, S P-i Thomas Krcag, 201 M I and all other troops partit:ipating in the Gulf Crisis. Confused Values Of A Democratic Nation Dear Editor, If some value is tr11lv believed in, then that value should not be comprout•~.:u, reduced or altered in any way which takes away the importance and purpose of th:: val uc. It is ironic that in th i:,. supposed war for \deomocracy\, \freedom\ and \justice\ and in a hypocritical sense \peace\, we are compromising these very same values: we want the people of Kuwait to be freed ... but our way of accomplishing this goal is to kill. We have avoided all possibilities of a peaceful resolution. As we save the blood of one country's citizens. we sacrifice many other countries' citizens. YES. This is justice the American way. Our value for human life is not upheld universally. It is restrictive and racist. With the exception of some crazy people in our world (and I do not refer here to anti-war protestors), I feel it is safe to say that Americans desire peace among people and among nations. This is a cherished value yet the United States finds it necessary to fool with this value. Since we understand that peace is not always attainable without killing, we accept the premise that war is inevitable. Why do we truly believe this? Probably because we understand that huma11s arc innately aggressive and therefore tension and conflict result and the only rcsolLition is the use of force. We arc afraid of the past because we judge everything by our history instead of the future. We arc unable to sec beyond our history... we arc afraid of change. But there arc some people who do bot.ber to quesion the history of the world and the history of the United States. These people are willing to be a little more creative and even daring to sec a better future. These people arc not crazy or irrational simply because they arc critical thinkers. These people may not be foreign policy scholars, diplomats, historians, CIA agc.;nts, politicians, economists, executives .. , I'm certainly not any of these. People can think and that's what matters because war comes down to nothing more than critical thinking. After much \critical thinking\ at-lout war in grneral, particularly the one we arc engaged in this year, I came up with no solutions c:xcrpt that we should have thought a lot more about our objectives and our reasoning. The result of even a little critical thinkmg is nothing more than a whole lot of srrious q ucs tions. What makes thrm serious is that fact that war deals with much morc than political games or military maneuvers. It deals with issues of lifr and death. No issue deserves more attention and thinking than these. Before we send yet another bomb or fire another shot. I challenge our lcadrrs and all those who support this war to answer all of the environmental. social, political and rcono1nic questions that must he addressed. There arc too many questions to justify the killing. Christa Kelleher Class of 199 3 3R6-43R7 PAID JOB IN COMMUNITY ORGANIZATION 1\-tarch 1, 1990 12:20 - 2:30 College Center 406 Come and learn about organizing for Social Justice Acorn is the largest and most successful low and modcratt: i n..:um~, community organi7ation. We will talk about grassronb ('tln1munit~ organizing acorn-style. How do we build voice and power for l ... lw-irh..'l1ll1C people? How can we fight for and win affordable housing program~. better health care services and improved education in urban ar~as·: Sponsored by the Department of Sociology and Anthropology

Page 14 The Next Actuarial Club Meeting win be on Wed, March 6 in the College Center, Room 203 · at 8:00 p.m. Newcomers are always welcome. CONCORDIENSIS) February 28, 1991 NEW COURSE FOR SPRING Classics 42: ARCHAEOLOGY OF GREECE AND ROME PROF. JOHN LENZ. MWF 1:10-2:15. Classics 42 approaches the ancient world through its major cities, menumen ts and sanctuaries. Topics include: Archaeological Methods and recent trends- The Greek Bronze Age: Minoans and Mycenaeans The Rise of Greek Cities and Temples Greek Sanctuaries: Delphi and Olympia Houses and Private Life Major Roman Cities: Rome, Pompeii One purpose of the course is to consider archaeology's usefulness for social history. We will consider different methods of \reading\ the archaeological record, such as surface survey, analysis ofgrave-offerings, and the structure of cities. At the same time, the course will offer an introduction to architectural forms and a view of the life of the ancient world (over time) that we don't otherwise see. Listed as\Special Topics in Classics.\ Gen Ed: An-CS NIKON F2 (serial #7116279)' with NIKKOR 55nm MACRO ~80973. 'IHIS CAMERA AND LENS WAS 'l'AKFN FR<M THE PHOTOGRAPHY JAB Tm-1 1 S OFFICE IN. THE ARTS mn.DJID. PI..FASE RETURN THE CAMERA TO SECURITY or CALL SIDJRITY and/or THE ARTS DEP.AR\lMm'l' ( 6201) WITH ANY INFORMATICW. · 'lb~ serial numbers are being circulated with all the proper au-thorities. We need the camera and lens llack. Any information or assistance -will be greatly appreciated. A eontest . ~ ., .. - ~ ... ~· . - .; . ·• ...... \' ~ . . .,, I

\ '· !·l . ' I , I CONCORDIENSIS, February 28, 1991 Page 15 CAMPus· NEWS CLASSIFIEDS Lent.\ These six original stories by Father Edward Hays, director of a contemplative center in Easton, Kansas will CUSTOM PRINT·EI> T u touch and challenge you and SHIRTS, sweats, ja<:kets,. make the Lenten message come caps for organizations, alive in a powerful way. 'Bring fraternities, sororities efficien- a brown bag lunch. Hot water cy, courtesy and low, low . . will be available. All are price. Call toll free, Rainbow welcome. Wednesday. March 6 Industries 1-800-637~7011. -The Judgment Day. TYPING • Norma Segarra, : 529 Congres.s Street, · S che.nectady, NY 12303. · Evenings/weekends C:lDly, call any time. 381-6243. Term .p2pers, manucripts, theses, lab · reports, and resumes. Fees $1.50 double spaced pages. Rush jobs $2;00 double spaced. Resumes ~}0.00. Cover letter $2.00. Pick-llp and delivery. WAKE-N-BAKE!! Spring Break '91 in Jamaica/Cancun firom $459.00!! A week of fun aJJd sun at this year's hotest destinations. Don't be lef-t in the cold. SUN SPLASH TOURS. 1-800-426-771(). CLUB NEWS RCIA-Sunday, March 3rd Mex Chiu '94 a Catechumen will begin the enlightenment stage of the Rite for the Christian Initiation of Adults. The First Scrutiny will be celebrated at the 7~3() PM M!iss. A reception f~r Alex w1II follow in the Rectory to welcome and congtatulate Alex. NEWMAN SUPPERS - · Tuesday, March 5th at 5 PM ·we will gather for supper and to write letters and Easte-1 cards to our troops in Saudi Arabia. .. '\.H materials suppli~d but I>Fing addresses of anyo11e you know who is serving in the Armed Forces. Go tllrough 11pper dining and bring tray to CC203 cr bring your ()Wn. LENTEN PROGR..\M - Wednesday at 12:30 PM in CC404 Sister Jou wili facilitate a Lenten J)rogram \Parables and Prayel's for Rubes® GONFIRMATION Classes for Union students are meeting on Fridays in CC404 with Sister Joan from 2:30 to 3:30 PM in preparation for April 18th. FOLK GROUP • S in:gers and musicians interested in · being part of the music ministry at the 7:30 PM Sunday Mass please meet at 6:30 PM in St. John's Church to rehearse. TUTORING Union students who are interested in tutoring please contact Barbara Cash, Box 279, Tel: 386-4181. BIBLE STUDY AND HOLY HOUR 0 n Tuesday, March 5th in the Chapel of Catholic and Family Community Services from 7:30 to 8:15 PM there will be a study of the Book of Exodus followed by a Holy Hour which will conclude with Benediction at 9:15 PM. All are welcome to come for the Bible Study and/or the Holy Hour which will include special prayers for peace as well as for all men and W()men serving in Saudi Arabia. . PERSONALS Reem, My tum to cook dinner. You'd better duck! I'm making pasta (does mac & cheese count?) Roberta, In this week of productivity, is it imperative for me to measure the size of any cassette selections? -Elaine To the Men's Basketball team - Thanks for helping us out By Leigh Rubin Saturday with the Schenectady Boy's Club. Good Luck at ECAC. Love, the sisters and pledges of Delta Gamma · To our little [lA's: .. We think you guys are awesome! ITB. the sisters TIA's ~ Keep practici11g your songs, and don't forget your pins! Phi Sig- We had an awe5ome time Saturday nightt! Let's do it again soon. Love, the sisters and pledges of Delta Gamma Re(e)mis, Lots of perso11als this week, eh? Hopefully this will make up for our domestic squabbles. Ali-cat and Herbert hated all that yelling .• - -E Thank God- Realism Week is over! To Shiva Shaka - I will miss bo11ding with you this weekend BUT make sure that there are NO BOYS in the apartment. -Love \ME!\ M.L. Muchas Gracias por su computer. Felicitaciones on you know what. OH! Love M.M. L. L. & M. L.- Thank you for dinner and friendship! I love you both. Love, Michele Emmie, ·\I know, ya understand!\ Wow, what a bond. Let's go dinni now. Love Clue-less J- Thanks for being such a great pal! I love you! -A I know you so well ... Long Haired People, Pull your hair off the cosmo way. Buy Squnchies. Call381- . 4097 for further info~ excited that you are part of our family. Love, The Sisters Dear Gamma Phi Beta Pedges, You all did a fabulous job on RUSH. Keep up the enthusiasm with our new pledges. Breakfast in bed will be a huge success! All Purpose Personal - Love, Lauren Split - Let's work on Spring Break:, Cheny - Do not Stress - Wendell - Be Happy - AI - How's Norina'? Glazer- Where's Billy'? Patty-cakes, Noah, Hi! Dear Gamma Phi Beta Pledges, Ciao - Beulah Congratulations! We are Weekly Crossword- \EAsY AS 1-2·3\ By Gerry Frey ACROSS 1 Evaluate 5 Deadly 10 Spring flower 14 Year11 15 Soul 16 Ms. Barrell 17 Actress Deborah 18 C\RPENTERS' MATERIALS 20 Vane Initials 21 Bamueader Kenton 22 Feeds the Kitty 23 Ac:id/3lcohol reaction 25 Needle case 27 Occ11r 29 FDilTY 33 A.M.A • 34 Produce the newspaper 35 Photo Image on film 36 Nothing in Paris 37 British guns 38 Equal 39 Pectoral: Abbreviation 40 Partorming 41 Scripture 42 UNBALANCED 44 Meal 45 Mr.Bush 46 Hamlet and others 47 Edna Ferber's novel 50 Simpson's creator __ Groening 51 Terminus 54 WORD WITH LANDING DR PLAY 57 To burn slightly 58 UNIQUE PERSON 59 Barricade 60 Ms. Gam 61 Prisoners of war 62 Statement of belief 63 Piece of news DOWN 1 Garden tool 2 Great serves 3 VESTED SUIT 4 Poet's ever 5 To enrich 6 Mr. Sadat 7 Suffix 8 Emerg. medical veh. 9 Secular 10 Cynical 11 ONE·SIDEDWIN 12 Memo abbrev. 13 Backtalk 19 Former Notre Dame coach 21 French Female Saints: Abbreviation 24 Bridge section 25 Knick's Patrick 26 Weight meas:ures 27 Silent Marx 28 Green card carrier 29 Craze 30 SINGLE 31 film rolls 32 Heron 34 Snoops 37 Augur 38 Corn cob, eg 40 Funeral march 41 Bowed 43 Undercover men, eg 44 Sqealad 46 Prom Creators Syndicate, Inc. Creators Syndicate, Inc. 01991 Leigh Aulllnl ...,. ----- -- ~ \We have a new 111ember joining us this evening, folks. I'd like 1'0U all to meet Edna, Phyllis, Harriet, Samar1tha, Joanne, Eve and Wanda.~· _ @1991 Leigh Rubin! As could be expected, the jury did not take long to reach a verdict. AMBIDEXlROUS SOOETY 0 ~ -- \2 ~:g I .B a: t'[..c . Cl)! §- j~ I ln \ ~ ...

.· Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS, February 18, 1991 ARITS & .ENTERTAINMENT He Said, She Said, I Said Horoscopes By JULIE MEDOW Arts Editor Once in a while, a movie comes along which is so utterly unimpressive that the only thing one can do is share the feeling with others. This is the motivating factor behind my article, for it seems unfair for me to have to carry the dull hurden alone. For six dollars and seventy-five cents I think I have the right to an original plot, interesting characters, and perhaps-- if I really push my luck-- I may even get to leave the theater with some new sense of the world. Not so with He said, She said, starring Elizabeth Perkins and Kevin Bacon. This movie is about a he (Dan) and a she (Laurie), both JOurnalists, who meet when they are competing for the same position as a columnist for a paper in Baltimore. Dan and Laurie are completely opposed in their Clpinions, and because of this, the paper . decides to run both columns as a sort of test to the public. Well, the fact that tl!ey disagree so perfectly is appe!lling to the public and to the newspaper as well. Dan and Laurie are hired to work together, and their combined colum11 becomes known as \He said, She said\. Eventually, they ,even have a joint commentary on a television show. But somewhere along the road to success, they fall in love, move in with one another, and three years later, everything is less than peachy £or them. Why? Because Dan will not marry Laurie. But dan 't panic ... it all works o.k. in the end. I can't really even tell you where the story Clf this movie begins ... yes, I can. It begins at the almost end, and then works its way backwards and forwards until, after an hour and a half, it ends 4t the real lmprov Concert Series Continues On Friday, March 1, Union College presents its second in a series of three concerts on \Traditions of Iwprovisation.\ This one is entitled Explorations in Sound and Textures of the Saxophone. Composer/Improvisor, Tom Guralnick plays a unique instrument comprised of tenor and soprano saxophones, vacuuphones, invented woodwinds and electronics. The components of the set-up are equipped with a changing array of mutes and sound-altering devices and are mounted on and within a 1 0-foot-sq uare sculptural structure allowing Guralnick to move quickly and freely from one personal sound to another. This movement within the instrument adds an exciting visual element to the work. By utilizing simple digital delay and sampling devices he is able to build dense, textural sonic constructions live in perfClrmance. Through the actual manipulation of the intruments as well as by his own extension of traditional saxophone tee hniques, Guralnick has developed a highly idiosynctatic, intuitive and emotional approach to the field of extended saxophone playing and composition. Since 1979, Gualnick has performed his music solo and in collaboration with others throughout the U.S., Canada, and Europe and bas been featured among oilier venues, at the Moers Music Festival (West Germany), tbe Stedelijk Museum (Amsterclam), the Palais des Beaux Arts (Brussels), Malastranska Beseda (Prague), R()ulette and Experimental In termedia (NYC). He Ius been commissioned to produce work for dance and has been featured on the New Mt1sic Radio program U.S. Ear. He has recorded with David Moss, Malcolm Goldstein, Baird Hersey, Sleepy LaBeef, Marion Brandis and others and his solo recordings are available on Cleo Records and UBIK tapes. This is the seco11d event in this year's series. The third, and final, event of the )'ear will be Friday, May 17. and will feature Artist/Composer Paul Dusenbury in a multimedia concert of hand painted slides and live music. The \Traditi<ms of Improvisation\ Series concerts are open and FREE to the public. They are sponsored by the Arts Departme11t, Union College. The Tom Guralnick concert is also sp()nsored in part by \Meet the C()mposer\. end (which is predictable from the start anyway). In -other words, He said, She said unravels itself through a series of flashbacks, half the time showing his side, the other half showing hers. This would be an acceptable way of structuring things were it not for the fact that in order to do this, the director seemed to feel it was necessary to re-play the same lines from each point of view. But for some reason, the lines that he and she say are the same each time, which both defeats the purpose of showing a scene more than once, and makes for a great deal of monotony. Also, the script of He said, She said lacks imagination. There are elements of When Harry Met Sally ... and About Last Night thrown in not-so subtly and not-so well, either. The bottom line is, no matter what He said or She said, I said see something else. By HARRINGTON PISCES: Happy Birthday! Celebrate one more year having slipped by you without really noticing what was going on. Lucky day: Friday. TAURUS: You are in :a slump. Your life will get better though. Be patient. Luckyda:y: None. GEMINI: Your indecisi-veness dealing with expressing your true feelings to one you know, may cause the other to lose interest. Don't be a wimp, say what's on your mind. Lucky day: Thursday. CANCER: Your Social' life is great. Your love life is gre..at. Your grades are great. Keep Fiding the high, but don't get too used to it. It could end soon. Lucky day: Monday. VIRGO: The flamboyance you have been so intent on creating will pay off this v:eekend. Lucky Day: Saturday. CAPRICORN: As the endof the tennapproaches and stress builds you must not get overwhelmed. Make sure you closely monitor your time for s<>eial activities and w0rk. Lucky day: Sunday. AQUARIUS: Your impulsive actions of last week have not caught up with you yet. Bat even though you have calmed down, things will come back to haunt you. Lucky day: Tuesday. ARIES: Set goals and follOw them. You have been getting lazy. Lucky day: Wednesday. LIBRA: Things will only get better for you. You seemed a bit depressed but that's all over, have a great weekend. Lucky days: Friday and Saturday. LEO: Find a Pisces and belp that persCln celebrate. This is his/her time to \glow\. Luc:ky day: Monday. SCORPIO: You feel that you have turned your life into a shambles. But don't wmry _ Soon you will find a way to rebuild. Lucky day: Sunday. SAGITTARIUS: Quit tll.illking about everything so much. Go-have a good weekend. Lucky day: Friday. Concerts Are Coming! Paul Simon will be a.t the Knickerbocker Arena on Monday, March 18th a.t 8:00P.M. Call 1-800-448- TIKS. Vanilla Ice (Ice, baby) will be at the Palace Theater on Wednesday, March 13th at 7:00 P.M. Call 465- 4663 or 800-922-2030 f<>r tickets. Social Alternatives • • • Ellen Wertheim: Of a Reflective Nature. Sllelnutt Gallery, Rensselear Union, Rm. 216, Rensselear Polytechnic Institate, 15th & Sage Avenue, Troy. Exhibit of watercolor and mixed media works. 3/4 through 3/28. Reception on 3n from 6-8. Free. 276-6505. Joseph Hagedorn, Guitarist and 1st Prize Winner in the 1990 Guitar Foundation of America's International Competi1io11, will perform at 8 p.m. on March 8th at SCCC's Begley Building, Rm. 1()0. For information, call 439-1031. ' Proctor's will be showing: \Swingin' Affair~' ()n Friday, March 8th at 8:00 p.m., and Forbidden Broadway on Thursday, March 7th at 8:00 p.m. Box office: 382-3884. And This Friday, March 1, Johnny Cash will appear at Proctor's at 8:00 p.m. A Call For Papers! for the Union College Undergradute Review of Humanities and Social Studies The Union College Undergraduate Review, a forurn for undergraduate writing in the Humanities and Sooial Sciences, would like to prQvi<le you with the opportunity to publish your papers and actively encourages yur submiJlsions. Any Humanities or Social Sciences paper written by an undergraduate (including foreign exchange students) will be considered. Submissions should be sent to: Box 259 . Union College Schenectady, NY 12308 The deadline is March 4, 1991. Take advantage of tllis opportunity to achieve recognition for your work!

CONCORDIENSJS;. February 28, 1991 Page 17 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Union College Theatre Celebrates 30 Years In The Nott By STACEY CERV:ELLINO Hopefully, most of you have noticed the display in the College Center, \Celebuting. Twenty Years of Theatre in the Nott.\ I'm sure it's quite a revelation for some people to realize that theatre at Union is thirty years strong. That's only lhirty years of theatre in the N ott. Before l963 our theatre was located in Washburn Hall, a beautiful old building which was r.eplaced by the Schaeffer Library. In 1963 tile theatre .and the Mountebanks were moved Lo the Nott Memorial. Previously the Mountebanks had been a strong. well known group on campus. as far back as 1935, when they used to participate in the Mohawk Drama Festival. The festival combined the best of Union College theatre with professional theatre groups from all over the country. The most exciting addition to the theatre came in 1971. The arrival of two men to C:nion's campus would change theatre here forever. A new director, Barry Smith. and our first scene designer, Charles Steckler, arrived on the scene with enthusiasm. determination, and innovative ways of approaching theatre. Slowly but surely new courses were added to the Arts Department, courses that have Forbidden Broadway at Proctor's The national tour of Forbidden Broadway will perform on Proctor's Stage Thursday, March 7 at 8:0() pm. This acclaimed musical satire pokes fun at Broadway's favorite musicals, performers and personalities. Forbidden Broadway opened at Palsson's Supper Club on New York City's Upper West Side in January of 1982~ What began as a simple cabaret act to give creator/ lyricist Gerard Allessandrini a showcase for his talents and the opportunity to \find an agent,\ turned into a modern day Cinderella story and New York's longest running musical comedy revue. Hailed by critics and audiences <like, Forbidden Broadway ~dptured the . hearts of the theatre industry itself, with some of its legendary victims including Mary Martin, Ethel Merman, Carol Chan~1ing, Ann Miller, Stephen Sondheim, Harold Prince, Peter Shaffer, Marvin Hamlisch and Sir Andrew Lloyd Webber among the many celebrities stopping by to applaud first-hand. Forbidden Broadway closed at Palsson's in August of 1987. An updated version of the show opened off Broadway at Theater East to high critical acclaim in September of 1988 and continues to play to SRO audiences. In the wacky world of Forbidden Broadway, Fiddler on Lhe Roofs Tevye tells why he became an actor in lhe song, \Ambition\; a long-in-the- tooth, not-so-Little Orphan Annie reflects, \I'm thirty years old, Tomorrow\; and Evita's concern is not for Argentina, but for all the actresses who want to portray her in the movie as she sings the heart- wrenching \Don't Cry for Me, Barbra Slreisand.\ Nothing is sacred and no one is spared as Forbidden Broadway takes on Phantom of the Opera, Les Miserables, Sting, and other famous personalities and Broadway Shows. Writer/ Composer/ Crater Gerard Alessandrini's genius is so abundant that his humor is accessible to everyone whether or not they're familiar with all the original plays. Behind the jokes and mischief is truly a sincere appreciation of musical theatre. Frank Rich of the N e w York Times calls Forbidden Broadway an \intersection where Broadway's past. present and future merrily collide.\ Howard Kissel of the New York Daily News says it's \devastatingly funny. Anyone who could keep a straight face during Forbidden Broadway can't have much of a sense of humor.\ All music! All fun! All Broadway! WRUC General Meeting ELECTIONS Monday, March 4th at 8 PM College Center Auditorium All Members - Come to Vote!! never been offered in recent years. The Arts Department and the Mountebanks worked side by side, building up our lheatre with people and resources and new ideas. At least ten student and faculty productions were performed every year, including \Hair \Arsenic and Old Lace,\ and \Hamlet.\ The amount of practical experience available in Lhe Arts was unlimited. It was feasible to come to Union and receive enough training to leave here planning to become an actor or actress. Problems arose when a rift developed between the Arts Department and the Mountebanks as well as the administration and the theatre It was time for the Arts to be taken m()re seriously by the administration, as it had been in the past. but things were at a standstill. One of the major issues concerning the tlleatre was and still is the Nott. The Nott was only supposed to be a temporary space for the theatre. Twenty-eight years later we are still using the Nott as our acting space. Although the theatre today is not as well known and definitely not as well sllp:ported by d1e college comm11nity as it was way back when, it is still alive and kicking. Mountebanks is seventy members strong and Barry Smith, Charles Steckler, and our Lighting Designer King Ralph Scenes From A Mall White Fang Don't Tell Her It's Me L.A. Story He Said, Silence of the Lambs John Miller arc still as devoted to the theatre as they were when they first arrived here. The Nott has become a second home to aU of us. Next year the Mountebanks and the Arts Department arc going to lose the Nott to reconstruction. The production of \Oedipus\ is going to be the last play that Barry Smith will direct in the Nott. The actors, the set designers, and the technical people have put in countless hours, transforming the Nott into a golden shrine in honor not only of \Oedipus but also of everyone here at Union who haYc devoted themselves to the theatre simply because they love it. Home Alone Nothing But Trouble Sleeping With The Enemy Never Ending Story Part II Awakenings Dances With ·wolves Hamlet Once Around Call Theaters for Show Times. Union College Theatre Presents Oedipus Based on the play by Sophocles February 28- March 9, 1991 Nott Memorial Theater Celebrating Thirty Years 7961-7991 i . ..;,

P~ge 18 CONCORDIENSJS, February 28, 1991 <Hnttrllrbitnsis SPORTS Men's Swimmers Place 4th At New York State Championships Continued from page 21 old school record by more than a second. In the most crowded event, the fast paced 50-yard freestyle, James \roto-rooter\ Ernst finished 8th, whi:Ie Quarrier finished 8th, Wagshul 22nd, and Yousey 23rd. Union's divers, Dave Robison and Mike Cassidy, were more than an integral part of our performance, for without them we would not have finished as high as we did all year. Robison, who already qualified for nationals, finished 3rd and Cassidy 5th in the 1 meter program. Finally, in the 400 medley relay, Union A, comprised of Zabka, Tremaglio, Humphries, and Wagshul finished 6th breaking the school record by 6 seconds. The Union B -- Yousey, Quarrier, Shaw and Pirich finished 3rd for the B 's. After the first day Union was in 4th place, the best start ever for the team. The second day came around, and we knew we would have to be tough to hold on to 4th, but as well as we swam the Alfred team proved too much and moved in to 4th by a small margin. To start the day off the A 200 medley relay of Zabka, Tremaglio, Humphries, and Ernst finished 4th just missing nationals. The B relay of Yousey, Quarrier, Shaw, and Walsh finished 4th in the B's. In the 100 butterfly Bill \Penn 8\ Humphries took a 4th place while setting a new school record. Drew Pirich fmished in 19th place with a great comeback swim. In the 2()0 free Wagshul finislled 13th and Zabka in 14th with a personal best time. In the 100 breaststroke Tremaglio finished in 12th place, Quarrier in 17dl, and Tim Judge in 25th. In the 100 backstroke Zabka won the consolation heat in 9th place, while Yousey finished in 14tll, and Luke Payne .in 22nd. In the final event of the day, tl!e brutal 800 free relay, Zabka, Walsh, Pirich, and Wags'hul struggled to a 7th place, and the B relay of Prout, Tremaglio, Shaw, and Humphries finished 6th for the B's. The last day came and everyone wanted to get the long weekend over with. The first two days of the meet people swam we 11 mainly because they were well rested and psyched to go fast, but 011 the last day, everyone was tired. To go fast meant that -we had to have the will to will, and the guts to finish up strong despite fatigue. In the most grueling race of all, the 1650 free (66 laps - 1 mile), \Iron Man\ Shaw finished up 8tll, while senior Gordon Buchin got 19th, and Ian Prout got 21st. Shaw came back right after that event to take 8th place in the 200 backstroke. In the 100 free Ernst finished tied for 13th, Wagshul tied for 15th, and Zabka got 19th. In the ever popular 20() butterfly, Humphries finished 18th and Pirich 21st. Tremaglio broke his own school record in the 200 breaststroke in finishing in 8th place, wilile Quarrier finished in 13th, and Judge in 22nd. In the 3-meter diving, our divers continued to excel as Robison broke both of his school records and finished 2nd and Cassidy got 8th. In the final event of the meet, the 400 free relay of Ernst, Yousey, Zabka, and Wagshul fmsihed in 6th while setting a school record, the B relay of Humphries, Pirich, Tremaglio, and Walsh finished in 4th for the B 's. T n the end Alfred proved tLo i..'e a little too much as they just beat us out for 4th place. However, we finished solidly in fifth 90 points ahead of RPI. It was a great weekend for us as a team. However, we received a lot of support from our coaches and friends, as well as the women's team. Thank you to all of you who helped us accomplish the best season in Union's Men's Swimming history. We would also like to thank Coach Bob Magee for all the great times we had with him and for helping to make us the team we are today. We'll miss you coach! Finally, thanks and good luck to the seniors ·- Boon and Buchin! Next year shall prove to be an even more successful season barring any unforeseen casualties. So we hope that people will start to take notice of the swimming program here as an excellent one and give it the respect it now deserves, as comparable ones receive at other schools. Women's Track Shines At State Meet Continued from page 2() Parsons also led off the 4x800m relay with a fast split, putting the team in good position to capture the win. Other members of this State Champion relay team were Rika Poor, Sandra Anselmcnt, and Tasha LaBarc. LaBarc contnbuted an especially strong leg to this relay with a fast split of 2:24. Junior Denise Saunders joined the medal winners by cupturing fifLh place in the 55m dash. Her time of 7:94 seconds was among her season's best. Saunders also ran the 200m dash, finishing in a swift 29:2 seconds. Besides the relay, Poor and LaBare also competed in tbe 400m dash earlier in the meet. Unfortunately, LaBare missed making finals by hundredths of a second, and Poor ran a fast 62:3 in the finals but missed placing by tcmhs of a second. Clare \Huxtable\ Megathlin also competed in the 400rn, running strong in preliminaries but failing to reach semis. Rounding out the Union squad, Jeanne Forrest of Albany Pharmacy competed in the long jump. Forrest is proving to be a valuable asset to the team. Sophomore Lori Simkins also threw the shot put and the 20 lb. weight. Simkins continues to improve and will be a major force on the team during the outdoor season. Overall, the Union team placed seventh out of 14 teams in the state. Congratulations to all the lady tracksters. This weekend the women travel to Bowdoin to compete in the esteemed ECAC meet. Good luck to the ladies in their final · meet of the indoor season. R-UC ELECTIONS Monday, March 4th at 8:00p.m. College Center Auditoriun1 All Members come to vote R.I. T. Brin9s Dutchmen Season o A Close Comtinued fr.om page 20 hat trick on a blast from right inside the blue line at 3:12. White got a piece of the puck, but it was not enough as it found its way into the Dutchmen net, giving RIT a 4 - llead. · RlT then put the game out of reach with its third goal of tile period, and third in under tllree minutes, as Josh Pagliaro beat White at 4:03. Union didn't give up and looked to get back .into the game on the power play and were rewarded with a goal by Ferrero, his 19th of the season. The puck was put in on a rebound off a shot by Eccleston. Freshman Jayson Flowers received the other assist on the Union goal which cut the RIT lead to S-2. Rick Burchill put Union ~ight back into the game as he put tile puck .past the glove of Hill at 7:45. Terry Campbell put the puck on Burchill's stick in front of the RIT goal and the junior wing one-timed it into the backofthe net for his 12th goal of the season. Campbell's assist increased his career total to 1 70 points, three ahead of the previous school record. That was as close as the Dutchmen would get. At 8:25 of the period, Union again went on a powerplay, looking to cut RITs lead back down to one. However, the} were unable to put a dent into the 'Tiger's lead. The Dutchmen received one last chance with 4:43 to go in the thitd pet,iod as they went on their .$ixth powerplay of the n~ght, uui again were unable to capitalize. RIT put the. game away on a goal with under 2:30 to go as Union was unable to get the puck out of their own zone. White fell on the puck and believed that he had frozen it, but an RlT player knocked it in, and with it all hopes of a Dutchmen comeback. Union did not lose two games in a row throughout the regular season. In their previous game, they lost a 4-3 decision at Middlebury, a game which saw Terry Campbell break Union's all-time scoring record. The senior center had a goal and an assist and raised his season totals to 16 goals, 38 assists and 54 .points. He finished his career as Union's all-time leading scorer with 51 goals, 118 assists, and 170 points. The loss t.o Middlebury snapped Union's five-game winning $treak and six-game unbeaten streak. The Skating Dutchmen also had a four gatrie winning streak near the start of the season, as well as a 7-game unbeaten .streak, 6-0:-1, after losing to Division I RPI. Last season, Union was upset at home in the first round of the ECAC West playoffs by Mercyhurst, 5-4. In 1988-89, the Skating Dutchr,,en defeated Hamilton 3-2 in overtime in the ECAC semi-finals, only to run into a hot RIT team who capitalized on their home ice advantage to score 3 third period ,goals and win ·th,e ECAC West Championship 5- 3. . New :. York State~ SwimmJng Championships Final Dlvlsi·on Ul Scoring

, .,.,. ,. -. . .... .... . - ~ ... ..- CONCORDIENSIS, February 28, 1991 Page 19 <itvmrbirnsis SPORTS Dave Ro.bison Qualifies . For Nationals ln 1 and 3 Meter Diving Cornpetiton By ANDY BRAVER Sports Editor To -top off the most successful season in the history of the men's swimming program at Union College, sophomore diver Dave Robison qualified for the national meet in both the one- and three- meter diving competitions. For his outstanding efforts throughout the season and his stellar performance at the New York State Men's Swimming Championships last week, Robisop has been selected as the Concordiensis Sports Athlete of the Week. Coach Susan Basset had nothing other than praise for Robison and his work in and above the pool all season long. \Dave has been our most consistent performer all ye~ long. We always relied on him for first place finishes at our dual meets. n At the state championships, Robison took second in the three-meter event with 497.55 points, a score which qualified him for the nationals. He will also be able to compete in the one-meter event, where he placed third with 403.65 points. In each event at the state championshps, Robison was the top Division III fmisher. \Dave made a commitment to do well this year and it paid off for him. He worked really hard during his vacations and he's done an excellent job.\ As a freshman last year at the New York State event. Robison placed 8th in the three-meter event with 351.85 points. He also set a Union College record,. which has since broken. in the one-meter event with a score of 372.55 points, a score good enough to earn him 7th place. Robison was also the only Union man to finish in the top eight in any event. Congratulations on a wonderful season, and good luck at Nationals in March, to Dave Robison, this week's Concordiensis Sports Athlete of the week. Men's B-Bal Move On To ECAC PlayoHs Continued from page 20 remaining both coaches were hit with technical fouls and thrown out of the game. The game was called with 1:46 remaining and the Dutchmen walked off with a 108-93 victory. Jerry Drescia scored 22 points and Kenny Evans and Alex Nestor each had 20. Elgin Rhodes recorded 13 rebounds to go with his 17 points. Steve Evans also handed out 9 assists, eight of them coming ;,: ~he first half. Clarkson came to visit on Saturday and Jerry Brescia w.ent into the game nee.ding 15 points to reach 1000 career points. l.lnion went on an 11-0 run at 15:53 and a 9-0 run at 10:49 and had buill up a 34-13 lead with 9:20 to go in the· half. With 5:28 remaining in the half Brescia hit a three PQinter to give Union a 45-23 lead and to go over the 1000 point mark. Brescia became just the ninth person to accomplish this feat at Union. He finished the half with 20 points and Union had a 56-36 lc.ad. Clarkson started the second half with a 10-4 run that made the score 60-46. Union simply shrugged it off with a 12-4 run of their own and led 72-50 with 12:25 ~o go. Clarkson never posed any sort of a threat after that and the Dutchmen carried off another win 96-71. Brescia finished with 22 points seeing only limited action in the second half. Nestor followed with21 andRhodes added 17. Union traveled to Middlebury on Monday with their ECAC bid in their pocket. Middle- bury, who didn't make the playoffs, was looking at their final game of the season. Middlebury simply dominated all aspects of the game. They got to all the loose balls and rebounds and shot 56% in the first half. At the half they were up by 18 with a 54-36 lead. The second half was more of the same as Union could not seem to make a dent in Middlebury's lead. Middlebury had runs of 13-2, 8-0, and 9-0 in the second half and finished the game with a 99-67 score. Brescia led the team with 15 points and Rhodes had 12 rebounds. Brescia finished the season leading the team with 18.0 points per game. He is followed by Rhodes with 12.6 points and Nestor with 10.0 points. Rhodes leads the team with 8.2 rebounds per game. Nestor is behind him with 5.2 and Kenny Evans with 5.0 per game. Steve Evans led the team with close to 4 assists per game. WRUC Elections Monday, March 4th at 8:00PM COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM Members Are Required To VOTE , • Big Time College Basketball: An Inside Look By ANDY BRAND Unstoppable ... Is there any other way to describe the Running Rebels of Nevada-Las Vegas. Each game they give another team a clinic on how to play basketball. Last Monday night they passed the last obstacle that they will face on their way to an undefeated regular season. They - defeated 11th ranked New Mexico State on the road. They also did so with relative ease as they led most of the game by a double digit margin and won by 12. UNLV is a team that has six future NBA players. They are so dominant on the boards, that it does not matter if they have an off shooting night, though, they are the number one field goal percentage team in the nation. They have no real visible weakness. Their forward combination of 6-7 Larry Johnson and 6-8 Stacey Augmon may be the best ever. UNL V may be the most powerful team in college basketball history. But college basketball has always been a game of upsets so we will just have to wait and see. will make predictions on everything from what teams will be top seeded lo who will make it to the final four in Indianapolis. This college basketball junkie is no different. So, here are some predications on what the tournament might hold. The top seeds in each region should belong to UNL V, Ohio State, Arkansas, and North Carolina. There are the four most dominating teams this year. Only North Crolina has more than two losses. Obviously, it would be easy to pick these four teams to reach the final four. So, here arc a few teams that will not be a one or two seed in their region yet have a good chance to be playing in Indianapolis. If Louisiana State can get consistent outside shooting from their guards they have enough dominance imide from 7-1 Player of the Year Shaquille O'Neal to be able to defeat any team. Kansas needs streak shooting Terry Brown to get hot so that All- American Mark Randall can be freed inside to lead on the Jayhawks. Georgia Tech's All-Universe point guard Kenny Anderson is having another sensational year. With seven-footer Matt Geiger and 6-l Malcolm Mackey up front for the Yellow Jackets they have the right ingredients for a return trip to the final four. UCLA has one of the most talented teams in the country, yet with only one senior they are an inexperienced squad. 6-10 junior Don MacLean has emerged as one of the top players in the country and is leading the PAC-I 0 conference in scoring. Only Jack of experience will hurt the Bruin's final four chances. Oklahoma State has one of the country's top teams now that Eddie Sutton has returned to coach his alma mater. Oklahoma State's physical inside game of 7-footer Johnny Pittman and 6- Besides UNL V there are some other teams making noise. The Ivy League has the first team to make it to the NCAA Tournament. The Princeton Tigers' victory last Friday over Columbia gave them this distinct honor by clinching the Ivy League title for them. Led by last year's Ivy Player of the Year. Kit Mueller, and one of the great coaches in the game, Pete Carril, they have compiled a 20-2 record and are currently ranked among the top 25 teams. Ohio State has a team that would be number one in almost any other year. They are 24-1 and ranked second in the country. Their sophomore swingman. Jimmy Jackson, is · the Big Ten's top player and may even earn first team All- American honors. 6-8 center Perry Carter has incredible strength and is one of the nation's top pivot men. Ohio State is a very physical team and may be the only team that can stop UNL V. On March 10, the NCAA committee will announce the 64-team tournament field from Kansas City. Until this time every college basketball junkie 8 Bryon Houston. who is h~ving an All-Ameridcan year, mtght just be enough to carry them to the big dance in Indianapolis. This has been a season where it's everyone against the Running Rebels. This may be a year where UNL V goes untouched as they repeat as national champions. But just getting to see one of the greatest teams ever play is worth the price of admission. SupporT Unio\N SportS

0 b J: a. w :=! u... Coach Bob Magee led ,the Men's Swimming team to Its best ever finish at the New York State Championships. There wasn't much for the Skating Dutchmen to celebrate in the 6·3 loss to RIT In round 1 of the ECAC West Playoffs. Men's Basketball (:loses Out Regular Season By JASON GRAVES The men's basketball team closed out the regular season by going 2-2 in their final week of play, finishing their season with..a 16-9 record. The Dutchmen will go on to postseason play when they will face Ithaca on .. Wednesday, February 27. Tiley are seeded 5th in the ECAC tournament. Union's final week was anything but dull. Last Tuesday the Dutchmen played a great game against RPI. Union had beaten RPI in the Capital District Tournament champion- ship game earlier this season. RPI came into this game with a 19-3 record hoping to avenge that loss. RPI jumped out to a 13-3 lead early on and that proved to be the difference in the first half. Both teams scored back and forth for the remainder of the half. Alex Nestor had a 10 point half and the Dutchmen were down 41- 33 at intennission. The second half was more of the same. RPI could not pull away and Union could not make much of a dent. Both teams kept running up and down the court making basket after basket. The closest Union got was 71-66 with 1:17 remaining. RPI then reeled off 6 straight points to end the game 77-66. Jerry Brescia and Alex Nestor led Union with 17 points. Kenny Evans finished with 7 rebounds while Luther Winfield dished out 7 assists. Friday night brought the St. Lawrence Saints into Memorial Field House. This game proved to be the most exciting game of Lhe year. It was a rough, extremely physical game that almost saw 3 fights. The first half was much like the RPI game as both teams simply traded baskets for the first 20 minutes. Union led 53-50 in the first half. The second half was when the action started. Three minutes into the half Union went on a 20-4 run including 8 points by Alex Nestor, a 3 pointer by Jerry Brescia, and a dunk by Kenny Evans. Union's lead was now 81-67 with 11:38 remaining. Many of the St. Lawrence players were highly distressed at the way the game was being called and Saint Mike Kelly was called for a technical foul. The two teams literally battled the rest of the way with Eric Whiteley, Kenny Evans, and Elgin Rhodes fouling out. The St. Lawrence team was still unhappy and with 1:46 Continued on page 19 Three State Champs On Women's Track team By SPORTS STAFF The women's uack team was HOT this weekend! The Lady Track<;tcrs travelled to Fredonia ~~ ~ .l L l . Ill I c..'f ' i l) l h i \ p; 1 ;,t weekend to compete in the Indoor State Meet. By the end of the weekend, the Union s4uad brought horne two individual State Champions and a charnJlion relay team. Junior thrower Alix Goldschmidt won Union its first gold medal of the meet by placing first in the shot put .. J:l. .I:, ({ \H)']l\ Thi~ throw not only gave Gold- schmidt the State Champion- ship, but also a new school record, eclipsing her old record by a full 5 inches. Goldschmidt will be a top contender in the shot put this coming weekend at the EC AC Meet. Shr also competed in the exhibition \outdoor\ weight throw placing 3rd with a throw of 37'5\. Senior Co-Captain Meg Parsons burned up the track Lhis weekend bringing home a gold medal in both the 800m run and the 4x800m relay. Parsons ran an extremely smart, strategic race in the ~nom finishin~ far ahead of the pa(.;k with a time of 2:22. Continued on page 18 February 28, 1991 Season Comes To An End For Skating Dutchmen With 6-3 Loss to RIT · By ANDY BRAVER Sports Editor The 1990-91 season came to an end for the Skating Dutchmen on Tuesday night as they lost to RIT 6-3 in the opening round of the ECAC West playoffs at Ritter Rink in Rochester, NY. Union finished its final season at the Division ill level with a record of 17-6-3 overall and 16-4-3 in league play as it prepares to move up to the Division I level next season. The Skating Dutchmen, . though they finished the regular season in fourth place in the ECAC West, were seeded fifth in the playoffs because RIT scored higher in the ratings which compared the strength of the team's schedules as well as their records against other ECAC opponents. Playing on the road, however, was not a factor to Union head coach Bruce Delventhal before the game. \I'm not too concerned about playing them on the road, and in fact, many of the players are glad we're on the road because of how well we've done away from home. One thing that I feel very good about is that one of my goals when I got here was to get rid of the image that Union had of playing well at home and not very well on the road. In the past three years we have been a very good road club.\ Tuesday night's game between the Dutchmen and Tigers was the lOth playoff game in the 16-game series between the two teams. Union's last v:nory against RIT was on March 9, ~985, when they defeated the Tigers 7-3 to capture their only ECAC West Championship. In the 12 games after that big road victory, Union went 0-10-2. In the meeting between the two teams earlier this season at Achilles Rink, the Skating Dutchmen jumped out to a 4-0 lead, only to fall behind 5-4 late in the third period. Greg Eccleston's powerplay goal with 8:05 to go in the third gave Union the tie. RIT outshot the Dutchmen 37-28. RIT went into the opening round of the playoffs against Union without three of their best players. The Tiger's leading scorer and best two-way center were suspended for fighting in their previous game against Elmira, and their best defenseman had his appendix removed last weekend. The loss of the two top forwards left a team that went primarily with three lines severely shorthanded. However, it was not much of a factor in the game as the Tigers more than held their own, though they began to show signs of fatigue late in the game. Early in the first period, Union goalie Shayne White made one big save after another to keep the Dutchmen in the game. White, a junior starting in his first playoff game, made two outstanding stops in the first 14 seconds. RIT could not capitalize on an early first period powerplay as White stoned them with many big glove saves. Union had great difficulty clearing the puck from their zone early in the game as the Tigers controlled the play and were fortunate to escape without giving up a goal. The Dutchmen could not get in synch and almost looked as if they were running around in their zone. However, Union gained their composure at the midway point of the period. Though they · were also held scoreless on their one full powerplay, the Dutchmen began to take the play to the Tigers. Union finished the period with 9 shots, 3 of them coming on a late flurry with a man advantage. RIT finished the first with 14 shots on White. The second period opened with Union on a 5 on 3 powerplay for 1:42. A tripping penalty on RIT at 19:42 of the first and a roughing call at 20:00 gave the Dutchmen a golden opportunity to go ahead. However, RIT goalie Mark Hill made 4 big saves and preserved the scoreless tie. RlT regained the momentum after killing off the 5 on 3 and quickly scored two goals in 1:34 t<> go ahead 2-0. Senior winger Todd Person scored the first of his three goals as he beat White at 3:43 after a nifty pass in front of the net from high-scoring defenseman Bill Gall. Person's second goal came at 5: 17 of tbe second as White was caught out of positioo and the puck was able to trickle past him into the net. Union reshuffled their folWlUd lines and was able to settle down after falling behind and regain their composure. Mter a few good chances, most notably a breakaway by junior Dalton Menhall, the Dutchmen were able to beat Hill and cut the Tiger lead to one. Senior defenseman/wTnger BiB Sedergren scored at 11:32 to get Union back into the game. Sedergren's fifth goal of the season was set up on a nifty pass play by Rick Clifford and Craig Ferrero. There wasn't much on the shot, but the puck trickled under Hill's pads and just crossed the goal line. In the last minute of the period, Union had another great chance to tie the game as junior defenseman Scott Whitney hit the goal post from in front of the RIT net. However, the puck bounced away and the teams skated off the ice with RIT leading 2-1. RIT quickly went on the powerplay early in the third period as Union defenseman Greg Steele was sent off on a questionable call for hooking at i :06. The penalty came hack to haunt the Dutchmen as RIT winger Scott Martin pounced on a rebound 18 seconds later to give the Tigers back their two-goal lead. Union defenseman Greg Eccleston got caught out in front and freshman Wally Bzdell had trouble clearing men out from in front of White . Todd Pcr\on complctrd hi\ Continued on page 18

