. ; ! I i l I 'i '.j .' '· .i ,; ~ : II ;· VOlUME CXXI. NUMBER 15 SCHENECIADV, NEW YORK MARCH 5, 1992 ACADEMIC AFFAIRS sua-couNCIL FOR UNOERGRADUA TE RESEARCH CREATED ·J.y Matt Karlyn Concordiensis Staff The Academic Affairs Sub- Council for Undergraduate Research (SUR) was formed to split the responsibilities of the Sub-Council on Research and Grants. SUR is currently the parent organization responsible for u.ndergraduate researc!l. Its specific responsibilities include various programs established to allow students to become involved with undergraduate research. The specific responsibilities of SUR include the Internal Education Fund (IEF) which deals with student proposals. Here SUR reviews and awards grants for Undergraduate research. Summer Undergraduate Research It is here that $50,000 is given out to students involved with research in all fields of study. Fell<>wships are also monitored by SUR. This is a program designed to allow students to conrlnct research with faculty members during the summer months. SUR works with Faculty members responsible for the coordination of the pr()gram. They also assume responsibility for working with the Director of Academic Services to establish a budget as recommended by the Faculty coordinator. SUR further administers the PEW program which manages undergraduate fellowships. Here, the Sub-Council works with the Associate Dean of Faculty to coordinate and award fell&wships. SUR also assists with the administration of the National Council for Undergraduate Research (NCUR) program, a national prClgram which aids undergraduate students with research. Its job here is to W(}r\k closely with the Faculty coordinator and to aid in tile reading of abstracts for selection. SUR ais o coordinates and administers tile Steinmetz Symposium with the special Steinmetz committee. The final specific respcnsibility of SUR is tile · Future Professors of America Program. This is set up for minority stq.dents who are co11sidering giaduate school md ha~e a strong desire tc enter int() a teaching career. 'Ibe student js paired with a faculty mentor to assist in teaching and find out what it is like to be a college professor. The students also, for three ho\lrs a week, each at the Oneida Middle School in Schenectady. The Sub-Cou.11cil works with the Associate De:an of Students with this prog1am and publicizes the program to faculty who might be wiUing to mentor students in the program. Dean Margaret Schadler, a member of SUR, believes that tb.e International Education Fund is one of the bigger j(:)bs that falls within the jusrisdiction of SUR. It is here the $50,000 is given out to students involved with research in all fields of -st11dy. Dean Schadler believes that the formation of SUR, \ ... rnace a lot of sense.\ She feels that · the job of the Sub-Council of Gmnts and research was simply getting too big. She sUited that one of the reasons the gr()up was formed was to \ .... . . take various aspects of undergraduate research and put them all into one place.\ The Sub-Council of Undergraduate Research consists of four faculty members. the Associate Dean for Undergraduate Programs, and two students. The Academic Affairs Committee chooses the faculty members. The students. who are members of the Academic Affairs Council, are chosen off of that committee to be a part of SUR, Dean Schadler, however, feels that there should be another system of choosing members for SUR. She would like to see a system put into · place that is similar to the system the Academic Affairs Council uses. She believes that this way more students that arc interested can get involved. Unlike some committees, councils, and programs at Union, SUR has not been affected by recent cuts in Union's budget. Dean Schadler reports that \Unless disaster strikes IEF will not be cut.\ ]ts Continued on page 3 Dr. Mark Snyder Speaks About AIDS Volunteers by Alii Wapner Concordiensis Staff Psychologist Mark Snyder of the University of Minnesot2 spoke to students last Wednesday as part of Union College•s Founder's Day celebration. Dr. Snyder specializes in the research of stereotypes in society and the psychology of self-monitoring. He has recently completed an extensive study of the psychology cf volunteerisrn and it is this topic, as seen in the con text of our current AIDS epidemic, about whicb he addressed students. · Snyller says that \society is judged by how well it responds in times of need.\ This is especially crucial as it relates to AIDS. It has been ten years since the first case of AIDS was diagnosed in the U.S .• and since then there have been over 200,000 cases reported. In New York State alone, 42,619 cases have been reported while in the Psychologist Mark Snyder Albany-Schenectady area there have been 417 cases. However, these are only the people who have been diagnosed for the disease. In the United States there are approximately 1,000,000 carriers and about 5,000,000 carriers world wide. Because we are all at risk for catching the virus, Snyde.r claims that it is especially crucial that new education be provided, warning those in the high risk areas that they are not immune to AIDS. Once a sufficient education system is established, Snyder says that society will be able to erase its prejudices against victims. Snyder adds that there has been an emergence of AIDS volunteers in the United States. Through these charitab,le acts the feeling of abandonment which patients often experie11ce can be eliminated. In This Issue • • • Voluntee.ring for AIDS patients comes in several forms. Many people choose to give emotional support by becoming a companion t() an AIDS patient. A recent Gallup poll says that about 25,000,000 AIDS volunteel's spend at least five hours a week with an AIDS patient. Because of the medical risk involved, President Hull's Ambitious Goal -page 4 Safe Sex -page 9 Find the Dutchmen -page?? other volunteers choose to help through direct services. Tl:lese people provide transport!ttion to hospitals, participate in public speeches in local schools, help in research, and administer AIDS tests. Through his study Dr. Snyder has attempted to reveal why people volunteer. 111 his Contiuoed on page 2

: . . -·~,·- . ,, : .. . . ·. . . ·.. . . . . . . . . . . . (: . .. . ' .. ' ' ·. . . . '. . . ·. - ' . . ' ' . . · ··laW · · · ·, · · · · ( ·, · · · · - · CONCORDIENSIS • l\IARCH 5, 1992 • PAGE 2 Teaching and Curriculum: Student Preparing Young Women For the 21st Century Forum by Christa Kellener Contributing Writer ]i) o young female women really differ from young males in their moral development? This past Wednesday, on Fehmary 26, Trudy Hamner attempted to answer questions like this at the Women's Commission and Women's Studies Program. Until recently, there was no info.rmation available about Trudy Hamner how boys and girls differed in their decision-making. Such que:stions concern Hamner, wl!o conducted a study of the rn~ral development of. adolescent girls. The study was suJlported by the Geraldine- Roclcefeller Dodge Foundation. It challenged the conventional psychological constructs by whictt the moral development of young females and males . explained in detai:l how the was examined. The first major · Held of psychology has research in this field was progressed in its assessment of pioneered by Carol Gilligan, moral development. She author of the widely acclaimed acknowledged that changes book, A Different Voice which have occurred through a re- was first published in 1982. examination of the moral Spotlight Trudy Hamner is c'urrently · development theories of such the Associate Principle of psychologists as Sigmund Emma Willard High School, a Freud and Lamence Kholberg. local all-women's high school. : She demonstrated the necessity She has been actively involved ·J of considering the differences in various capacities at Emma and implications of woman's Willard since 1981. She is a I decision-making. Ms. Hamner History teacher as well as a was brought to Union by The guidance counselor for the high Women's Commission and sch.ool women. She received Department of Women's by Brendan Clifford Student Forum President This past week the Student Forum met in Fox Lounge. Despite extensive advertising, only two guests attended this meeting. The Forum discussed the Cabaret, residence life issues, and prize day awards. As has been advertised, the Cabaret will be set up in the her B.A. from Welilesley 1 Studies. College and her Masters from· --..-------~-------------­ the University of Virginia. Hamner has written various books and articles including works on Uganda, Leningrad, the Saint Lawrence River, \rock and roll\ and a recent book, Making Con.necti()ns. Her latest book addresses the situation of young females in education and how being female affects one's moral and intellectual development, education, and career choices. In her book, Trudy Hamner stresses the significance of recognizing differences between girls' and boys' moral development. She affirms how one's psychology is, in many ways, constructed according to sex. Research related to this issue has challellged the historically prescribed male way of looking at psychology. During her talk, Ms. Hamner Psychologist Speaks About Volunteerism Continued from page 1 speech he pointed out several reasons for this \testimony of human kindness.\ People volunteer for a social function where they can be positive role models for others to follow. Second, volunteers participate for personal values. As humanitarians, they seek to act upon their inherent moral system which tells them to help those in need. In addition, others choose to volunteer to gain an understanding of what AIDS is and why it has spread so rapidly across the country and the globe. Others do it for self-protection, to come to grips with their own fears. Usually volunteers of this latter category have friends or relatives diagnosed with the· virus. In economic terms, Snyder says, AIDS volunteers provide over 170 billion dollars worth of services in the United States. Now that people who have AIDS are living longer with the disease, the need for AIDS volunteers has risen substantially. Snyd~r says that volLinteering \helps us Jearn about others and ourselves.\ The apparent increase over the past decade in the number of volunteers illustrates how strangers help others strangers in need. This is truly \altruism in action,\ Dr. Snyder says. Every state has volunteer programs where anyone can donate whatever amount of time they have to spare. Snyder says that we have the ability to continue and increase this \by- product of the AIDS epidemic.\ He states that all it takes is personal initiative. College c:enter pit and the two wings on a trial basis. A planning committee has been formed with Matt Tucker as its chair. He is, actively searching for students to be on this committee. Please contact him to canny any constructive ideas. 'IIhe opening of this Cabaret is planned for the second day of Spring term. Opposition t<> next years housing policy ~xpressed by Sophomores did !lot fall on deaf ears in :their class meeting_ Sophomore Class Represent- atives Blaine Langberg, Mia. Caetano a:nd Lee Popper have: been voicing this opposition to administr~tt()rs and the Student Affairs Council. 'fhey are trying to reach a compromise that would all()w Juniors to live off- campus. It is I ikely that a solution willl be reached before the end Qfthe term. Over the next two weeks, the Forum will choose the recipients of a variety of student awaJids. \The: Wendy Bernstein Award {Sophomcre) and the Calvin G. Schmidt Award (Junior) will be given to two students·who have contributed significantly to Union College. Equally important, sixteen juniors and seniors will be nominated t() the Delphic Honor Society. These awards will be presented on Prize Day in Spring term. Each of these issues will be on the agenda for further discussion in this week's meeting .. St11dent input would be greatly appreciated in finalizi11g decisions. Please attend tonights meeting in room 409 C.C. a:t 6:30. Union College Bowls ''For Kids Sake''' Approximately thirty teams of Union College students and faculty members gathered on March 1, 1992 at Boulevard Bowl to, once again, Bowl for Kids Sake. Togelher they raised over $6,200, malcing this the most successful Union College Bowl for Kids Sake. In accordance with past tradition, a trophy will be awarded to the fraternity or sorority raising the most money. This year's winner is Chi Psi, as they raised $1,502.30. Other top groups ind11de: Sigma Phi ($670.80) ami Beta Theta Pi ($621.65). This is the fll'st year that Beta Theta Pi worked with the Bo-wl for Kids Sake fund raiser. and we thank them for their· significant contribution Ibis year. All money contributed. by sponsors stays in the community to benefit the Big Brothers/Big Sisters. Tbe money is used to recruit, screen, train and match Big Brothers aod Big Sisters to children ()n <>ur waiting list as well as ])tQ!:vide professional staff to monitor tile matches. Big 'Brothers/Big Sisters wishes tc> thank all the bowlers and spons:ors that contributed so generous:ly t() our biggest fund ra.isel' of the year. Everyone's participation is greatly apj)re<:iated.

-~ ~ ____ j _j~j \_ __ CONCORDIENSIS • MARCH 5, 1992 • PAGE 2 Teaching and Curriculum: Student Preparing Young Women For the 21st Century Forum by Christa Kellener Co;Jtributing Writer Do )ol[)tmg female women really dliffer from young males in their moral development? This prust Wednesday, on Februan-y 26, Trudy Hamner attempted to answer questions like tllis at the Women's Commission and Women's Studies Program. Until recently, there was no information available about 1rudy Hamner how boys and girls differed in their dcdsion-making. Such qucsti()ns concern Hamner, . who con<luctcd a study of the . moral development of adolescent girls. The study was supportei(f by the Geraldine- Rockefclkr Dodge Foundation. It challenged the conventional psychoBCbgical constructs by which the moral development of young females and males was examined. The first major research in this field was pioneered by Carol Gilligan, author of the widely acclaimed book, A Different Voice which was first published in 19&2. Trudy Hamner is currently the Associate Principle of Emma Willard High School, a local all-women's high school. She has been actively involved in various capacities at Emma Willard since 1981. She is a History teacher as well as a guidance counselor for the high school women. She received her B.A. from Wellesley College and her Masters from the University of Virginia. Hamner has written various books and articles including works on Uganda, Leningrad, the Saint Lawrence River, \rock and roll\ and a recent book, Making Connecti(lns. Her latest book addresses the situation of young females in education and how being female affects one's moral and intellectual development, education, and career choices. In her book, Trudy Hamner stresses the significance of recognizing differences between girls' and boys' moral development. She affirms how one's psychology is, in many ways, constructed according to sex. Research related to this issue has challenged the historically prescribed male way of looking at psychology. During her talk, Ms. Hamner Editors..,. in-Chief Steven Carr. Stephanie Fray News Editors Jordan Lippner, Jim Polites, Lara Chamberlain Feature Editors Internaticmai Features Editors Commentaries Emtors Arts Rdit()fS Matt Tucker Sari Skolnik Kristin Lupoli. Lame Tumidajewicz David Burg.. Reeba Manimaletu · Julie Medow; Ned Walley . Julie Schlang · Diana Brodsky,. Nicole Goldin Dan Strum Lifestyhes Editor Camptts Page Editors S~Editor Associ~Ue Sports Editor Pltotogt~hy Editor General Manager .. Assisrmt<le'neral A1anager .. AdvertiS\!itlg •tc>rs Ll!~l Ales$lt>,]~,~~ijl Subscription ~,~:a~;· . , > .. ·•. · ... ~): ·;;·g; ; Am·Wapaer. ADVERTISING STAfll': Smith CONCORDIENSIS is published eight Thursdays a term by the student body of Union COllege, Schenectady, New Yotk 12308; ?tJ;blications Office; Susquehanna Publications, lnc., Box 38:8, Sid,ney, New Yo-tk 13838 (607) 563~8339. SubscriJHion rate: $40 per year, delivered anywhere in the · United St$tes. Mail Subscriptions to Concordiensis office.\ CoHege Center. Union Colleg¢. Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (TP). Office Telephone (518) 310- 6155. Atlvertising Telephone (518) 370~6494. ~~= ... ,. ,::. ( .... '- >' ~ :. · .. ; ·~- ' ~ .. d '.: < • \'. • • ' • • ~ • • ' •• , :·· • ' ' ', •• , explained in detail how the field of psychology has progressed in its assessment of moral developme11t. She acknowledged that changes have occurred through a re- examination of the moral development theories of such psychologists as Sigmund Freud and Lawrence Kholberg. She demonstrated the necessity 1 of considering the differences and implications of woman's , decision-making. Ms. Hamner i was brought to Unio11 by The · Women's Commis&ion and Department of Women's , Studies. Spotlight by Brendan Clifford Student Forum President This past week the Student Forum met in Fox Lounge. Despite extensive advertising, only two guests attended this meeting. The Forum discussed the Cabaret, residence life · issues, and prize day awards. As has been advertised, the· Cabaret will be set up in the College center pit and the two wings on a trial basis. A planning committee has been formed with Matt Tucker as its chair. He is actively searching for students to be on this committee. Please contact him to convey any constructive ideas. Tile opening of this Cabaret is planned for the second day of Spring term. Psychologist Speaks About Volunteerism Opposition to next years housing policy expressed by Sophommes did not fall on deaf ears in their class meeting. Sophomore Class Represent- atives Blaine Langberg, Mia Caetano and Lee Popper have been voicing this opposition to administrators aad the Student Affairs Council. They are trying to reach a compromise that would allow Juniors to live off- campus. It is likely that a solution will be reached before the end of the term. Continued from page 1 speech he pointed 0111 several reasons for this \testimony of human kindness.\ People volunteer for a social function where they can be po~itive role models for others to follow. Second, volunteers participate for personal values. As humanitarians, they seek to act upon their inherent moral system which tells them to help those in need. In addition, others choose to volunteer to gain an understandi n,g of what AIDS is and why it lias spread so rapidly across the country and the globe. Others do it for self-protection, to come to grips with their own fears. Usually volunteers of this latter category have friends or relatives diagnosed with the virus. In economic terms, Snyder Union ''For Approximately thiity teams of Union College stn<lents and faculty members gathered on March 1, 1992 at Boulevard Bowl to, once again, Bowl for Kids Sake. Together tl!ey raised over $6,200, making this the most successful Uni()n College Bowl for Kids Sake. In accordance with past tradition, a trophy will be awarded to the fraternity or sorority raising tbe most money. This year's winner is says, AIDS volunteers provide over 170 billion dollars worth of services in the United States. Now that people who have AIDS are living longer with the disease, the need for AIDS volunteers has risen substantially. Snyder says that volunteering \helps us Jearn about others and ourselves.\ The apparent increase over the past decade in the number of volunteers illustrates how strangers help others strangers in need. This is truly \altruism in action,\ Dr. Snyder says. Every state has volunteer programs where anyone can donate whatever amount of time they have to spare. Snyder says that we have the ability to continue and increase this \by- product of the AIDS epidemic.\ He states that all it takes is personal initiative. Over the next two weeks, the Forum will choose the recipients of a variety of student awards. The Wendy Bernstein Award (Sophomore) and the Calvin G. Schmidt Award (Junior) will be given to two students who have contributed significantly to Union College. Equally important, sixteen juniors and seniors will be nominated to the Delphic Honor Society. These awards will be presented on Prize Day in Spring term. Each of these issues will be on the agenda for further discussion in this week's meeting. Student input would be greatly appreciated in finalizing decisions. Please attend tonights meeting in room 409 C.C. at 6:30. College Bowls Kids Sake'' Chi Psi, as they raised $1,502.30. Other top groups include: Sigma Phi ($670.80) and Beta Theta Pi ($621.65). This is the first year that Beta Theta Pi worked with the Bowl for Kids Sake fund raiser, and we thank them for their significant contribution this year. All money contributed by sponsors stays in the community to benefit the Big Brothers/Big Sisters. The money is used to recruit, screen, train and match Big Brothers and Big Sisters to children on our waiting list as well as provide professional staff to monitor the matches. Big Brothers/Big Sisters wishes to thank all the bowlers and sponsors that contributed so generously to our biggest fund raiser of the year. Everyone's participation is greatly appreciated.

COt\ICOADIENSIS • MARCH 5, 1992 • PA~E 3 AcadeJDic Affairs Creates Sub-Council C()ntinued from page 1 research programs. She further otl1er programs are in no danger believes that because no of being cut, and still others p.roblems are being. encountered are funded by outside sources. a11d there are positive views on As far as things are cUFrently the horizon, an increase in the going, budgetary cuts do not bl!dget of the SUR is likely. :pose a threat to SUR. Dean The programs offered and Schadler hopes that in the administered by SUR are there fntave 1EF will increase its · for student involvement. Dean spending on student initiated _ Schadler encourages students to become involved in undergraduate research and to think about making proposals for research funding. Undergraduate research is a rewarding experience and the programs offered by SUR are there to help those students who are interested and would like to get involved in research. Bishop Ho\\l\'ard . . u . VISitS . DIOD by Sr. Marie O'Ryan, RSCJ At the invitation of the Newman Club of Union College and Catholic Campus Mi11istry, Bishop Howard J. llubbaxd, D.D., came to meet the Union Community on Sunday, February 23. The evening began with a dinmer in the Bishop's honor at St. John the Evangelist Rectory. Forty students, who serve as volunteer Tutors, Lectors, Eucharistic Ministers and active Newman Club members were in attendance. Rishcp of the Diocese of Albany, Bishop Hubbard was delighted at the opportunity to m~t with so many Union students individually, and as a Bishop Hubbard g:roup. The students were e<J.Ually enthusiastic. \It's a nice time for the Bishop and The News Staff would like to thank Steve Carr and Stephanie Fray for a job well done as Co--Editors--In--Chief students to meet on a personal level,\ said Kate Alquist. The celebration continued at the 7:30 pm Liturgy in the church. Bishop Hubbard concelebrated the well attended Mass with Father John Provost, Pastor of St. John's. The Bishop's Homily emphasized service to others, being countercultural and the importance of prayer in our individual lives. Tom Fallati, co-president of the Newman Club, thanked the Bishop for his presence. \Over the years the Bishop has shown interest in the Union Community, his coming here shows his commitment to our presence on campus,\ Fallati said. The evening concluded with a reception in the school gym. Viruses Attack Union by Dave Frank-MoJnia Concordiensis Staff In recent news articles, on Ted Koppel's Night Line aad .even NBC's Evening News with Tom Brokaw there has been a lot of talk about computer viruses. This topic has become a big issue in recent days,. due to Michelangelo's upcoming 517th birthday. One might wonder what Michelangelo had to do with computers, and there is no clear connection .. except for the fact that a virus named after the Italian artist will become active on March 6, which happens to be Michelangelo's birthday. While there's no rl';ason to panic, experts warn pecple not to take the scare lightly. This virus is known as .a \boot sector infector,\ which means it affects IBM-compatible computers by going to the area of a hard or floppy disk that is read when the computer is turned on. The target of this virus is to format the hard drive as soon ~s the computer is started, vtilich wiU irrevokably destroy all' information stored on the hard<lrive. Regar<lness of how remote the clrances may be, consideri111g the time, effort and research brvolved in activities such as tlle::ses, term papers or senior Jll:'Ojects, my ad vice would be quite simple, but neverthele-ss seri(llu:s, 1) Male sure ta have at least two bacl-tLps o£ files that arc important to yon. ~Make sure the bade-ups are on nco- infected ~i sks.) 2) Install some: kind of virus protectioo progra;m on your hard dri'Ve. The (JCS office is offering a free copy ofF-PORT which sho11ld be quite useful. All you noeed to d!O is bring a blank dislc to the Student Consulta.n t's Office in Steinmetz Hall, Room 102. One enc::ouraging aspect, the Michelaflgelo virus docs not affect MllcintosE1 computers, but then again there are so many other viruses, one should take the same prec~utions! Good Luck Finals! on Union celebrates it's annual Founder's Day Students Publish your papers in the Minerva Review Submit papers in the Humanities and Social Sciences to Box 98 5 by March 15 To All Seniors Who Will Be Graduating at the End of Winter Term!

CONCORDIENSIS • MARCH 5, 1992 • PAGE 3 Acade~nic Affairs Creates Sub-Council Continued from page 1 other programs are in no danger of being cut, and still others are funded by outside sources. As far as things are curFently going, budgetary cuts do not pose a threat to SUR. Dean Schadler hopes that in the future IEF will increase its spending om student initiated research programs. She further believes that because no problems are being encountered and there are positive views on the horizon, an increase in the budget of the SUR is likely. The programs offered and administered by SUR are there for student involvement. Dean Schadler encourages students to become involved in undergrad11ate research and to think about making proposals for research funding. Undergraduate research is a rewarding experience and the programs offered by SUR are there to help those students who are interested and would like to get involved in research. Bishop Ho'\Vard Visits Union by Sr. Marie O'R:yan, RSCJ At the invitation of the Newman Club of Union College and Catholic Campus Ministry, Bishop Howard J. Hubbard, D.D., came to meet the Union Community on Sunday, February 23. The evening began with a dinner in the Bishop's honor at St. John the Evangelist Rectory. Forty students, who serve as volunteer Tutors, Lectors, Eucharistic Ministers and active Newman Club members were in attendance. Bishop of the Diocese of Albany, Bishop Hubbard was delighted at the opportunity to meet with so many Union students individually, and as a Bishop Hubbard group. The students were equally enthusiastic. \It's a nice time for the Bishop and The News Staff would like to tha,nk Steve Carr and Stephanie Fray for a job well done as Co--Editors--In,Chief students to meet on a personal level,\ said Kate Alquist. The celebration continued at the 7:30 pm Liturgy in the church. Bishop Hubbard concelebrated the well attended Mass with Father John Provost, Pastor of St. John's. The Bishop's Homily emphasized service to others, being coun tercultural and the importance of prayer in our individual lives. Tom Fallati, co-president of the Newman Club, thanked the Bishop for llis presence. \Over the years the Bishop has shown interest in the Union Community, his coming here shows his commitment to our presence on campus,\ Fallati said. The evening concluded with a reception in the school gym. Viruses Attack Union by Dave Frail k -Molnia Concordiensis Staff In recent news articles, on Ted Koppel's Night Line and even NBC's Ev~ning News with Tom Brok~VI there has been a lot of talk about computer viruses. This topic has become a big issue in recent days, due to Michelangelo's upcoming 517th birthday. One might wonder what Michelangelo had to do with compute:rs, and there is no clear connection, except for the fact that a \Virus named after the Italia11 artist will become active ()n March 6, which happen:; to be Michelangelo's birthday. While there's n<J reason to panic, experts wam people not to take the scare Lightly. This virus is known as a \boot sector infector,\ which means it affects IBM- C()mpatible computers by goin!; to the area of a hard or floppy disk that is read when the computer is turned on. The ta.rget of this virus is to format rile hard drive as soon as the computer is started, which will irrcvokably destroy all information stored on the hard drive. Regardless of how remote the chances may he, considering the time, effort and research involved in activities such as theses, term papers or senior projects, my advice would be quite simple, but nevertheless serious. 1) Make sure to have at least two back-ups of files that arc important to you. (Make sure the back-ups arc on non- infected disks.) 2) Install some kind of virus protection program on your hard drive. The OCS office is offering a free copy ofF-PORT which should be quite useful. All you need to do is bring a blank disk to the Student Consultant's Office m Steinmetz Hall, Room 102. One encouraging aspect, the Michelangelo virus do~s not affect Macintosh computers, but then again there arc so many other viruses, one should take the same precautions! Good Luck Finals! on Union celebrates it's annual Founder's Day Students Publish your papers in the Minerva Review submit papers in the Humanities and Social Sciences to Box 985 by March 15 To All Seniors Who Will Be Graduating at the End of Winter Term!

CONCORDJENSIS • MARCH 5, 1992 • PAGE 4 President HuU's Ambitious Goal by Jim Polites News Editor Every once in a while, news emerges on Union's campus that is difficuJ:t to ignore- something that you simply can't tum your head on and brush off defiantly. So while the majority of analysis that appears in :this column surrounds curre11t domestic and international events, rm going to narrow the sc()pe in this, my fmal article of Winter Term. Last week in Concordiensis, Matt Karlyn reported on the state of Union acclaimed Term Abroad program. Though the story was told objectively,'[ interpreted it as a severe condemnation of the oppressive burea11cratic system fostered here-<Jne that quite often squeezes the student's best interest from consideration. The true roots of this dilemma date back to last year when President Roger Hull arrived at Union. We all remember the goals he defined upon entering office; they were aspirations that Hull himself set, ones that could serve as a barometer in appraising his success as the college's leader. Probably the most interesting was his pro- clamation to work towards 100% 1'erm Abroad participat- ion. A bit ambitious? Yes maybe,. but considering the emphasis .placed on studying overseas here, it was a timely statemellt. Now though, it seems as if much c:>f this has blown up right in President Hull's face. Today, not only have waiting lists become frustratingly long. but many of the student's alternative options-namely .to withdraw from Union for a term and apply to another institution-· have contracted thanks to tight restrictions. Sadly at the present time, only about one-third of those seeking a non-Union term abroad are being allowed passage-that simply isn't enough. The Term Abroad office and bureaucratic hierarchy will be hard pressed in convincing me that they are acting ill the most virtuous concerns of those 70% turned away; it's impossible. Sometlling that disturbed me was the talk of lost revenue- to the tune of $375,000 last year-and its influence on the tighter non-Union guidelines. Now if Hull and Company decide to make money an issue, they are really inviting recognition as the situation's villain. It's very simple: the students here come to Union and pay Many of the students'' alternative options have contracted thanks to tight restrictions. exorbitant tuition fees to receive an education high- lighted by personal touch, one that can only be provided in a small coUege .setting. The fact that this fundamental presump- tion seems to llave been lost in all the Fhetoric and controversy is truly unfortunate. Turning back to the programs at Union, r think the best illustration to give is from the frustrating experience of someone trying very hard to go away next year. This sophomore applied to both Italy and Bath, England for the fall of 1992, only to be wait- listed on both counts. FRIDAY NIGHT DINNER Great Food & Fun! Friday at 6 pm KOSHER KITCHEN ALL WELCOME To look at his credentials and talk to this s~udent, you can't help but to think that this is a perfect term abroad candidate, outgoing and capable of taking full advantage of an ove1:seas experience. Luckily, his enthusiasm brought him to take immediate action rather than sit back passively and wonder 'why me?' He didn't waste any time. called President Hull's office and attempted to set up an explanatory meeting. He was promptly told that President Hull didn't have time for such business. Perhaps the individual plight of a student is too much to expect on such short-and disturbing-notice. Really though, here we have a good, soliid kid who is being denied an experience abroad he richly deserves-that's unfair. Maybe all will work Ollt in the end, and he'll get a chance of participating on a Union term abroad of his choic~that will make all well. His treatment has been inexcusable though-and that in and of its.elf makes the situation wrong-regardless of the ultimate results. Finally, as a student who was able to take advantage of a term abroad this past Fall, I'd like to make my own feelings known. I have yet to come across an overseas alumnus who hasn~t said something to the effect of 'I· had the time of my life' or 'I wish I was back there now'. To deny those other people who hear about the great times but remain restricted by wait- lists and filled quotas is not only unfair, but cruel as well. The administration will always be able to claim that they don't have the resources and facilities to accommodate all students who would like their first choice of term abroad Let's be frank, though. There will always be a million excuses why things like this can't be done and progress can't be made. Maybe it's time work started on some solutions. Good Luck on Finals! Ifn cuititg bacK on )?Uf welfare be.ne\'its to he\p ~ break out at prr cyde cf d~pendenc>;, to force you to t>ecome: less of a bu.rden •. .and more self- sufficient. .. Write For NEWS Spring Term

I 4 - [) a i CONCORDIENSIS • MARCH 5, i992 • PAGE 5 SPRINIJ BREAK,92 ifiiifififii BAGEL BRUNCH (witb Lox) Sunda.y, March 8 ·Don't wai,t 'till U's too late For Info and Reservations STS reservations @ 1-800-648~4849 or see your :local Travel Agent Kosh·er Ki·1chen 12 noon Topic: Antisemitism in the Global Context ALL WELCOME 120 N. Aurora St., Hhaca. NY 14850 1 800•648-4849 P R I N C I· P. L 1:3 S o.f S 0 U\ N [) , R E T I R E Nl .E NT I 1\f V. 1:<:: S t .i N G: . ·. ' J • ' • I • ' ' ··.~', .. .;.-. .-.- THEIRS OURS HOTEl WHY YOU SHOULD START PLANNING FOR RETIREMENT WITH YOUR EYES CWSED. F or retirement to be the time of your life, you have to dream a little -about the things you've always want~d,to do: travel. explore, start a business. Just inagine ... can add up quickly. OASIS IUEACII RON! DLLUXLI AQUANUlltiNA IBlAOf·RONIJ BEST WESTER~ PLAZA IDOWNIOWNI HANDAiill. !DOWNTOWN) MARIA DEL LCURDES IIJOWNIOWNI MARGARI'TA IDOI\'NIOWN} VERANO BE.AT IBEAOfRONI} FROM: FROM: $889 $649 $709 $549 $499 $539 $539 [tnplel $499 [tnple) S499 $399 S579 $469 S669 $549 W1th a dream and apl!ln, you cart make it happen. Your pension and Social Security . should provide a good basic retirement income, but what about all those extras that make your dreams possible? You'll prdbably need some additional savings. What else makes SRAs so special? A broad range of allocation choices, from the safety ofTIAA to the investment accounts of CREF's variable annuity; SAVE BIG.,,. lhe5e quality frlp packages! All trips include round- trip oir fare, se-ven nights accommodations. and round-lrip airport transfers. no sales charges; a variety of ways to receive income, including annuities, payments over a fixed period, or cash. You may also be able to borrow against your SRA accumulation Above prices are per person. quad o<:cuponcy (lriple occupancy at Hondolll. plus lox and administratiort fee. before you retire.* BOOK 111 PHONE! 1617) 2e7-81 oo Or vrsrl any ol our 12 outlet All this, plus the top investment manage- ment that has helped make TIAA-CREF the largest retirement system in the country. locatrons THE DREAM IS YOUR OWN. WE CANHELPYOUWITHTHE PLAN. ~ J! TIAA-CREF Supplenental Retirement . ~ Annuities (SRAs ), tax-deferred annuities for J people like you in education and research, are ... a good way to save for retirement: and save So start dreaming and planning for the time of your life_ Because the sooner you start your SRA, the greater your savings and your retire- ment will be. ~ ak ~· on taxes now. SRAs areea.sy-you m e con- 1 ___________ _ ~ tributions through your i11stitution before your I \' taxes are calculated, so you pay less tax now. I ~ START PLANNING FOR THE -.::; Youpaynotax 01'1 1 TIME OF YOUR LIFE, TODAY. ] your SRA contributions 1 :~ and earnings until you For your free TIAA·CREF Supplemental Retirement Annuity Kit. send this coupon to: '-' • ..,,~ § receive them as income. I ~ TIAA-CREF. Dept. QC. 7:>0Third Avenue. \'- \\ And saving regularly I New York. NY 10017. Or call 1800 842-2733, Ext. 8016. ~ b .., meansyourcontri u- 1 N•w•~(Pieascprint) ~. tions and their earnings 1 ~ AJJr~$J t:: ~ I ~• iii& . & I Cti,v {!. Ensuring the future I ln.rtilutimt(Fuilname) ~· for those who shape it~ I 1iilt ~~ I @1: T!AA·CRl!F P.rrt,<·•/•nnl Stall' .... !\:::=:=:=:=:==============I 0 Ji.r 0 .Vt> c •o~:pending upon your institution's plan and the state _you live in. CREF annuities are distributed by TlAA·CRE.F I nCiv1dual & lnsnrunonal Ser\'lces. Inc For rnore complete information, including charges and exJM'm~. ~alll800 842-2733. Ext 5509 for a prospectus. Re4Ci the prc:apectus carefully belOre .''ou invest or send monl'y. THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT HOURS! Sun<:la~:f11Ur!day II m-1 am; Friday, Salll!rday U am-2 am EAT IN-TAKE OUT FREE J)ELIVERY $7 00 minimUlll, 49'¢ maximum rharg~ Jj.().39l8 a1zd 3&4BEDROOM BIOLOGY CLUB Pre s.e 11 t \AXONEMAL ASSEMELY IN VIVO: STUDIES IN CHLAMYDOMONAS\ Monday, l'viarch 9, 1992 4:40 p.m. REfreshments at 4:30 Social Sciences Room 104 **IDIR. /JrQ}llff;fiSrQJN d:; qj ICfJ.N!J)D:DA \J'!E J~l!' UJJR \'CJJLJ.. liJ UrtP!f..rQJ!GJ S'!r » !f'I{J)I'lfl\J' U({) N APTS Available for 92-93 • All appliances • Washer & dryer • P«»rches .. Yard ·Parking ·Carpet • Seml·i'11mished Call 370-5498 VACATION OUTLET FII.ENE' S I?ASEIVfNT

\Aus by Sreekumar Subramanian Contributing Writer How would you respond if you were riding a night train (alone) in Germany and a man entered your compartment and started talking to you about Nazis? How would you react if the English-speaking person sitting next to you was unable to communicate with the German-speaking conductor and you knew enough of both languages to be of service? Would you strike up a conversation in a foreign language while you were on a train even if you felt your vocabulary was very limited? How would you feel if you were in the main train station in Berlin and a stranger approached you, attempted to touch you, and invited you to his place for drinks? What would you say if a German conductor asked you for your bus ticket .and you had lost your monthly bus pass? And finally, what would you think if you ran into a friend from your high school in a church tower in Munich? Believe it or not, these were all real situations I faced about 8 months a.go. For those of you who don't know·me, allow me to introduce myself: My name is Kumar and I'm a junior, Biology- German interdepart- mental major, who had the good fortune of going on the Union term abroad to Freiburg, Germany. I am writing this article to share my experiences abroad (which, without my journal, I myself, at times might be inclined to disbelieve) and perhaps, a little wisdom. The first incident to which I've referred occurred while I was returning to Freiburg after a visit to the beautiful Insel Sylt (Sylt Island) in northern Germany. Since I had a \Tramper - Monats - Ticket\ which allowed me unlimited train mileage in Germany for a month, I could ride trains without reserving seats. On this particular night, I had to switch trains at about 6:00 A.M. so I was not planning to sleep. At about 2:00 A.M. a man entered my compartment, and started to voraciously devour this piece of meat. (He offered me some, but I politely refused), After he had finished, he engaged me in a conversation in German (one of those inevitable late night chats). The train was due to arrive at Luneburg, his hometown, at 4:00 A.M. so he was not planning to sleep · either. After we had exchanged our names, and begun talking, he surprised me by asking, \Kennen Sie die Nazis?\ (essentially: Do you know the Nazis?), to which I simply nodded. He continued, \Es gibt keine Nazis mehr. Wo sind die Nazis? Es gibt keine mehr.\ (There are no more Nazis. Where are the Nazis? There are no more.) Of course, I disagreed and cited some evidence to support the CONCORDIENSIS • MARCH5, 1992 • PAGE 6 - dem Leben Reisenden\ • 'eines (From the Life of a Traveller) contrary. I usually do not walk away from good arguments because I believe there is always something to learn from them, but common sense dictates that dangerous topics with strangers in unfamiliar surroundings should be avoided at late hours. Anyway, we discussed the existence/dis- appearance of the Nazis a while longer, after which I steered the conversation to a more innocuous topic, occupation. I told him I was studying in Freiburg and he told me he was a bricklayer in Luneburg and had been on a short vacation. He turned out to be a very friendly person and his discussion about the elimination of the Nazis may have been to convince me (a minority) that I had nothing to fear in Germany. In retrospect, the experience was fantastic and my German had to improve since I was forced to use it at odd hours in the morning, but the situation was potentially dangerous. In any case, adventure need not be sought after to be found, especially on a term abroad. At about 2:00 a.m. a man entered my compartment & began to devour a piece of meat. A less dangerous, but equally exciting, opportunity arose when I found myself sitting next to an English-speaking person who was unable to communicate with the German- speaking train conductor. The \English-speaker\, a Nigerian as I later learned, needed to :know some arrival times and city names. He could not speak a word of German and unfortunately for him, I had heard the conductor say, \Tut mir leid, ich kann Ieider kein Englisch\ (I'm sorry, I can't speak English). I felt I could be of assistance so I entered the conversation. I began by asking the Nigerian what he wanted to know afid translated the (relatively simple) questions into German for the conductor. The conductor gave me the necessary times/travel possibilities which I was (luckily) able to translate back into English for the Nigerian. I was very hesitant to offer my \abilities but since n_o one else seemed to help, I did my best. My German is certainly far from fluent, but in this case, I had the necessary vocabulary to be of service. After the conductor had left, the Nigerian thanked me profusely and we began talking. The story which he told me and which I later wrote in my journal is extraordinary. It turned out that his father was wanted by the Nigerian government for plotting to overthrow it; after his father had escaped from Nigeria, his mother told him that he had to leave the country because he was their oldest son. If he had been captured by the g()vemment, his father would In front of a Baroque church :(l-R) Christopher Eisler, Kumar Subramanian, Bill Rooney, Sven Zabka, Heidi Phelps, Sy Do,Elbug Koehn have come back to save him. In o:rder to prevent this,. he escaped to Germany and was currently under political asylum. He told me that he was given a small amount of money every month which was barely enough to survive; furthermore, he w~ unable to read. write or speak German which entirely shut him off from the various media. He asked me what I thought he should do and I suggested contacting variou~ language institutes and explaining his situation. He asked to see my passport and I showed it to him (without handing it over). He explained that his sisters were in America and were trying to get him into the country. I think it was at that moment that I fully recog-nized the power of the American passport and ()f being American. I do not talce either for granted any longer. When it was time for me t() go, he thanked me again anrl I wished him luck. As I left. I could not help wondering what it really means to have personal freedom. I fully recognize the power of the American passport I no longer take either for granted. On an earlier trip, I found myself sitting acros.s from a priest and was interested in starting a conversati()n to pass the time. I introduced myself and told him I was studying German at the Goetlle-Institut in Freiburg and wanted to improve my speaking ability. He replied in a thick accent that he was an Ita1ian priest working in Aachen. Gennany and he probably would be unable to help me improve my German. I contiuued the conversation by aski11g about his work and why he had decided to become a priest. He explained that he had grown up close to the church~ both literally and figuratively, and it seemed natural to him to serve God in this way. I asked what he thought of other religions and he expressed (to my delight) the idea that all religions are generally good because they prompt people to believe in God. He neither resented my questions nor refused to answer them, but rather took the time to explain his views, which impressed me greatly. When I had to switch trains, I thanked him for the conversation and he told me to visit Aachen if I could. This was actually my first train trip in Germany and I felt protected, in a strange way, by his presence. For those who choose to believe it, God does watch over those wh() believe in him. On yet another occasion, I was in the Berlin train station when a man tried to touch me and invited me to his place for drinks. Wilen I deferred until another time (never), he told me that he was from Spain and was only here for a little while. I wasn't sure what kind of a scene I might have to cause, but I kept refusing his requests. Finally, he gave up and I noticed that he went over to another male student to try his luck. This might\ have been avoided if I had been travelling in a group, but at any rate, one should always be prepared when travelling, wherever that travel may be. Needless to say, I then checked all my pockets to make sure that my wallet, passport and important papers were still with me. Not all of my experiences were train related, however. One particularly embarrassing incident occurred while I was on a bus in Freiburg. A week earlier, I had bought a monthly bus pass for about 30 Marks. (roughly $20), which I lost within two days. After that, I continued to ride the bus without buying a ticket and on 'me such occasion, a plain clothed inspector asked for my ticket/pass which I did not have. He made me get off at the next sto)J and wrot& me a fine for 60 Marks. I told him that I had lost my bus pass and he told me that if I found the pass, the fine was only 5 Marks. After the conductor left, I walked away (extremely embarrassed) from the group of people who had gathered around me when he was writing the ticket. I walked to the place where I had bought the pass; the man behind the counter told me that there were no records kept. He did, however, suggest that I try the \FundbiUO\ (Lost & Found) next door. To my surprise and delight, my bus pass was in the Lost & Found; the lady explained that she was unable to contact me since there was no phone number on the pass. Luckily, I got off with only a 5 Mark fine and incidental minor embarrass- ment. I was in the Berlin train station when a man tried to touch me and take me to his place for drinks. My last encounter involves a strange coincidence and occurred during the one week at the end ·Of the term in which our group from Union toured southern and eastern Germany. We were scheduled to stay in Munich on May 31st and June 1st, 1991. On the 1st, a friend and I were coming down from the t()p of the Church of St. Peter (in Munich) on a narrow spiral staircase when I suddenly heard someone exclaim my name. I was surprised to see a good friend of mine from high school, whom I had not seen since graduation, standing in front ·of me. Two years after our graduation (almost to the day), I suddenly ran into her on a narrow spiral staircase in a particular church tower in Munich, Germany. Th.e coincidence is made even more spectacular by the fact that she and ller friend were only visiting Munich on a day trip from Tubingen, where she was studying for a semester, and our group from Union was there for only two days. Moreover, this girl was in my French class in high school; I only began taking German at Union. We were both in shock, Continued on page 7 f I I ! l l I I I. !

I 6 - ... ' t 'i 'I l \ ' ! CONCORDIENSIS • MARCH5, 1992 • PAGE 7 The Travels • • • Continued f:rom page 6 but we did exchange addresses and I visited her in Tubingen for a day befme I returned to the States. Ironically, it was easier to visit her in Tubingen than it would be in America because she goes to the University .of Washington in Seattle. alone. As I look back on my experiences, I almost have to laugh at my previously naive state. Before, I never completely understood why people spoke of the \term abroad experience,\ but I realize now that the entire experience encompasses al'l of the senses; the new sights, sounds, tastes and smells associated with a foreign country. In a way, living in America has desensitized some of us to its vast beauty and greatness. In contrast, when I experienced Europe for the first time last spring, I appreciated it because I looked at it with the senses of the inquisitive and admiring child. And when I returned, I was able to look at America differently. For me, the term abroad experience was a celebration of youth and an almost magical rediscovery of what it means to be alive and free in America. 'I Acquiring the Grecian Taste In Athens At times like these, one feels that the world is such a small place; paradoxically, however, one .also feels {at times) completely alone in this large world. Interestingly enough, I st:Fongly experienced both feelings this term. These feelings are, of course, neither limited to Americans nor particularly unique; after speaking with .several students in my class, which consiste\1 of students from Romania, Poland, Korea, ltaly, Switzerland, France, Turkey, Japan, Sweden, Brazil, and Peru, I realized that these feelings are indeed universal, i.e. I was not alone in fP-~lin~ by Anthony Albanese Term Abroad Student in Greece Lalbachan Budhai, Heidi Phelps, Bill Rooney (in back), Pr~f. Anton Warde, Chris Eisler and Doug Koehn v1ew a castle 1n Ludwigsburg, Germany. It is 8: 30 Friday morning and as usual I have an hour before class. I have one class today and that was Art 8 Atchaeology. Friday is a special day for this class, because of this day we sat at an ancient site as opposed to in the classroom. Today we are meeting at the Acropolis and, :Since I have an hour to kill, I will proceed through my daily routine. I had to get up early and put the hot water heater on to \heat\ my shower and once I am showered and dressed I am usually quite excited to leave my cold stone apartment for the much warmer streets. I walk past the small gmcery market and .greet the woman \who owns it - Teta. She is quite a saleswoman as most of the Greeks are, and as usual she ~alks me into buying something I don't need. We converse until my vocabulary runs out which doesn't take long - on a good day about a minute or less and then I proceed to the bakery. At the bakery, where Teta's son works, baking a roll or some Greek concoction. After I (j_uickly consume my breakfast I walk by the barber shop where I get my haircut and exchange greetings with the \barber. He loves to greet me, ~md although he speaks not a word of English, he puts every effort into conversing with me, and so we both get a great deal ()f pleasure out of it as well. While getting my haircut with llim I think I talk much more than I do with my barber at borne. Although we often have to rely on facial expressions and sign language, we manage to communicate. After I pass him, I walk by the stationery story where I hear a woman yelling \KaUmera Anthony!\ ·. \Oute smart enotJghtoknow . the difference oetween . . . ·.· perestroika and glasnost. · And you're still smoking? ·(good morning). I stop to ask b.er how she is and tell her I will be in again soon. Mter we exchange our daily morning greetings, I walk past the 'WLindry place where I send my clothes off every week. The man who works the store s:peaks a little English and attempts humor quite often. Although his jokes are far from PEACE CORPS WORLD WISE PuZZLE For further information about Peace COI'fJS, write Box 896, Washington 1JC 20526 INSTRUCTIONS: The Peace Corps has volunteers serving in nearly ~0 nations around the world. By solving this puzzle, you w:illlearn about one of these count:r1es_ Solve the four numbered puzzle words and then unscr~mble the letters in the squares to produce the name of the country darkened on the map at the nght. .-.-----. t t . ~1:1, The second larges na 10n - ~. in South America ~ I I 1. European natio11 which discovered this country in 151&. 2. 'Name of famous; leader of this 8 natiodn whose wife was the topic of a roa way musical. 3, Spanish name foOr the Falkland Islands. 4. Capital of the nei~hboring country of Chile. humorous I appreciate his effort and his hospitality and I :laugh as much as possible. I finally reach my destination, which is the Acropolis in Lhis case and I feel good about myself because I feel a part of my little Greek neighborhood, From the mystery ,meat in dining halls to flashers in the parks. We aren't shocked by things anymore. Kolaki, and a part of Greece as well. After such a morning and other experiences as well, I often ask myself, \What constitutes home?\ I am thousands of miles from\my home,\ yet why do I feel at home here. Everything is foreign to me, from my shower to the food I eat. There is no Dutch Hollow or Skellar, no Goldstar's or J. Beck's to order from, no idol to point out, no fraternity or sorority parties to go to, and no Kelly's or Geppettos to hang out at as Get your well. However 1 manage to feel at home. Allllough we all complain about the lack of luxuries, the number of stairs, and everything else from the myslery meat we get in the dining room 011 Mondays, to the flashers in the park, we arc all becoming :part of it and aren't shocked any more by the things that we were that day we arrived in January. This is the experience, at least for many of a term abroad. It enables me to experience a culiture to the degree that they actually feel a part of it. Althougll we live in Greece and we only know a little Greek, we manage to communicate and \fit in.\ By now, most of the girls have the traditional Greek key in some form of jewelry and all of the guys know where the cheapest _ place is to buy Greece's potent Amstel beer. Therefore although home to many is considered the place where we originate from or live most ~f our lives, I have learned that It is where you personally \feel at home.\ Editor's Note: Due to unreadable Fax's, we regret that we were unable to print all lettersfrom Greece. hands on and get a Grasp on the Campus EVERY DAY

Bost:on Caftl:erat:a To Play The Boston Ca~r~erata, an internationally known chamber ensemble directed by Joel Cohen, will explore the origins of American folk music in a concert titled \New Britain: The Roots of American Folksong\ at 8 p.m. ()n Friday, March 6, in Union College 1 s Memorial Chapel for the 1991- 92 Schenectady Museum- Union College Concert Series. The program will be divided into five parts: Medieva:l Roots, Nueva Espana, Vielle France et Nouvelle France, Wandering Songs and Ballads, and Glad Tidings (folk hymns and spirituals). Most of the program will be drawn from the ensemble\s record New Britain: Roots of American Folksong (Erato) and will include three songs written in Troy, N.Y.: \The Christian race,\ \I shall be satisfied\ and \Roll call,\ all composed in 1868. A sing- along of the hymn .. Amazing Grace\ will be part of the concert. The Boston Carnerata, an ensemble:. of singers and instrumenralists, is dedicated to bringing alive the music of the Middle Ages, the Renaissance and the early Baroque period. Founded irn 1954, the .ensemble was associited for many years with the :Boston Museum of Fine Arts. Since 1975, when it became an independent corporation, it has toured regularly abroad with appe~rances throughout Europe ani! at several French music festivals, including Paris, Strasbourg and Vaison. The grouiJ has :performed on radio in F1ance, Switzerland, Holland, England, Spain a11d Sweden and on French television. The Camerata has recorded on the Erato, Harmonia Mundi, Nonesuch and Telefunken labels. Cohen, the director since 1968, is re:.cogni2ed as one of the worlcl's authorities on medieval and Renaissance musical ::verformance. He studied composition at Harvard Universit)\'. was awarded a Danforth .F-ellowship and spent two years in Paris as a student of Nadia Boulanger. He has taught and lectured at universities in the United States and abroad. As a lutenist, Cohen has appeared with many EurcQpean ensembles and is widely known to music fans as a guest host of the syndicated \Morning Pro Musica,\ heard locally on W AMC. He is the author of Reprise, published in 1985. Memorial Chapel, l()cated near the center of the Union College campus, is lmown throughout the area for its fine acoustics. Tickets, at $6 for non-Union College students and $12 for all others, are available from Schenectady Museum in advance and at the door an hour before the concert. Members of the Union community ·can obtain free tickets front the Student Activities Office on a first-come, first-served basis. For more information, call 382-7890 day& at the Schenectady Museum or 372- 3651 evenings and weekends. Broadway's Newest: Crazy for You by Ned Walley Arts Editor Chorus girls ill giant, shimmering headdresses adorn the stage in the opening and closing scenes of tile \new\ Gershwin Broadway musical Crazy for You. These floating daydreams are used in an attempt to carry the a11dience back to a bygone era of Broadway where glitz, sequins. and feathers once domillated the stage. Between the reiDiniscent moments of magic is divulged a storyline about two musical theaters, one on Broadway, and the other i.n the near ghost town of Deacl:rock, Nevada, that hopes to revitalize the town through the theater. In this attempt to reach a greater height of prosperity than the level elljoyed during the gold rus!h, a tale of love is woven be-tween a local farmhand a.lld a New York banker who -dreams of dancing and singing on stage. The show opened last week and was herclded more for its insinuations tllat Broadway's future lies in its past, than for UtiiOrt LAOHDROMAT 561 tlott St. Wash. Dry & Fold Service Mon., Wecl .• Fri. 4:00 pm•9:00 pm 55t LB its excellent clloreo,graph:y and much loved songs that give the audience a simple eveming of entertainment. It is a prime example for describing the nostalgia that Broadway is presently experiencing for musicals of yesterday, as there have been no other new American musicals this year. Even though this is n()t the best image for a show to provoke, it is undeniable that Crazy for You combined dancing, music, and leve to provide the audience witll true, simple entertainment. Attention Seniors! That Means Youl The Senior Week Committee will be meeting next Wednesday, the 11th of March, in the College Center Atrium at 5:30 to start plo1ting for the Disorientation of a lifetime. All seniors Interested are encouraged to a1tend. If you cannot make the meeting, but are still interested In working on the efite committee, p'lease call either David. Burg at 393-7010, or Rachel Rapaport at 377-6534. Everyone is welcome. If you do not wish to work with a committee, we would still love to have your suggestions for any Senior Week activities which would be of interest to you. We can do (alrnost) anything! Please tear out a piece of paper, and send your suggestions to Box 199, or Box 1281 by next Wednesday. CONCORDIENSIS • MARCH 5, 1992 • PAGE 8 · Natas:ha's Stars ARIES (Marclt 21-April 19) Go with ·the roller coaster ride this wee:k, · because the bumps could even be hllir- der if you fight it. By the weekend you see a clearing. You start acting lii!<e your effervescent self again. Othe-:ts adore you this way- and they let you know it. A lot. TAURUS (April20-May 20) Make the most of the cleat sailing this wee)(. because, as tlte 1\/eekend anives, yaJu may have a ·d<lwnh.ill swing. T()o much, too soon. too fast. Luxuriate in the positives a11d in the heightened colUlection between you and anothe:r. Recharge those batteries before Moo- day. GEMINI (May 21-June 20) Handle responsibilities early in the week. be- cal!Se suddenly something pops intD play as the wcelcend appears on tile scene. And play }'Oll will. Of course. with the stardust tltatfalls on you, cor.J· si!ler roping in tltilt special career op· portunity (if yo11 don't want to play. that is). CANCER (Jttne 21-July 22:) Progressive thinkinJ gets you what you want this week. Do your researclh before you make.)lour proposal .•. yo11 may have a hard time talking another into your way of thinking. Though yo-.u stan your weekend late, you make up for- lost time. Gel into a celebratio11 mode. LEO (July 23·August 22) Expect otbers to dominate this week, and yo11 W()n't be disappc:Jinted. Count on thad Leo charisma - you purr, they follow. You're into one-to-one relating, be iit busi11ess or perso!lal. Carry that theme into all the different parts of your life:. Follow through on a fantasy thi:s weekend. VJRGO (Allgus:t 23-September 22) Work on that Virgo perfectionism this week and lighten up. You discov~ how much yo11 can really enjoy life and still be efficient. The tom-toms call to you all week. It's time for some qualit)r' play and a powerful exchange of ener- gy. Close that business deal fitst. LffiRA (September 23-0ctober 22) Stop playing peekaboo with an impor- tant relationship that could impact your business as well as your personal life. Focus on hard core realities and take off your rose-colored glasses. Lis- ten to an associate, friend or relative. They're all saying the same thing. SCORPIO (October 23-November 21) Those creative urges do wonders this week. You can either plug into work, and open up what seemed to be a locked idea, or you can launch into an early case of Spring Fever. The odds are, you'll have chosen both options. Boy. are you hot stuff! SAGITTARIUS (November 22- December 21) Give up talking and retreat back into the think tank this week. Creativity and action combine as the weekend appears. Usc this in- tense combination to light up your romantic life. Make a work situation better; a present relationship more compatible. You want it all? Now get it. CAPRICORN (December 22- January 19) Vibrate with the moment. Be open to questions this w~k, even if you .find yourself painfully insecure. Go back to the drawing board and look at the holes in your thinlOng. Use the weekend to relax and choose your op- tions. Over the weekend, you appear - a force to be dealt with. AQUARIUS (January 20-February 18) You think you'vegot a tiger by its tail, but events during the week con- vince you that this may not be the case. Your reactions are so strong, it's clear you're the tiger, and no one's leading you by the tail. You go your own way ti:Us weekend. (P.S. You have a great time.) ·PISCES (February 19-March 20) You peak midweek and seem to have everything(?) under control. Another's flak goes right by you. By the weekend, in fact, you've forgotten it. Be careful, however, of that Pisces trait of overdoing. You could go wild now, very wild. And there may be damages. Tread with care. @1992 by King FeatiU'eS Synd HOURS: Sunday-Thursday 11 m-1 am; Friday, Saturday 11 am-2 am EAT IN -TAKE OUT FREE DELIVERY $7.00 minimum~ 49¢ maximum rharg~ ·370-3928

Or, What To Hav·e On Your Spring Break by Julie Medow Arts Editor This is not what you think. But, at the same time, it's much more than you thought it would be. It is a book review, a recommendation of some of the hottest, sexiest books on the market to date. Since I am going on a cruise, which could turn out to be The Love Boat but might be reminiscent of a geriatrics ward afloat, I'm going to Ft. Lauderdale prepared for either scenario. I suggest you do the same ... if you follow my advice and head to the nearest B. Dalton before hopping on your plane, yon too can make wild passion happen in a hammock, the pool, on the beach - aRywbere your heart desires. VOX, by Nicholson Baker is 165 pages of pure phone sex. Jim and Abby meet through the wires of an illicit 1-900 number; and choose to go off into their own private convo, leaving the rest of the party behind. For what seems to be a few hours one evening, the two share stories of erotic interludes and fantasies. Although at points I was slightly embarrassed to be reading Vox, I must say it was much more entertaining than the Herman Melville novel I was supposed to be attacking each evening. (Sorry, Gado.) My roommate is now half way through it, and the rest of my friends are on the waiting list. What's Eating Gilbert Grape, also new and in hardcover, lacks that Playboy Forumesque edge of Vox, but is enticing nonetheless. Written by a friend of mine named Peter Hedges, What's Eating Gilbert Grape explores one young man's stagnant life in Endora, Iowa and the changes he experiences when ·he flips out over a mature fifteen year old out-of-towner named Becky. This novel is full of wonderful one-liners and bizarre humor. For example, Gilbert's mother, once the prettiest girl in Endora, is now too large to fit in the bathroom. Her children fear that the house will eventually cave in by the t.v. where she sits most of the time, but don't have the courage to tell her she should move.) Gilbert Grape is the modem Midwestern Holden Caufield, the type of guy you love because he is so honest, perceptive, and slightly hopeless. I could read this book over and over again. In f!aperback, there are always: the classics in the sex genre:. Henry Miller's Tropic of Cane·er (although it is sitting 011 my shelf, I haven't read it), and Philip Roth's twisted Portnoy's Com J»h in t (particularly offensi\Ve and interesting if you are J.ew ish). I hate to recommend trash, but Jude Dever(:';llux's Eternity is not in CV S's collection nation~ide. It deals with a woman who convinces a man that sh.e is his perfect wife. Also DICW in paperback is a short no()vel called Damage, by Jos.ephine Hart. dealing with the ramifications of a fatal attraction-like obsession. Off of seJ{ .and into violence, I recently- read Mario Puzo's The Godfather, and must say that even if you've seen the movie, it is neC~Tly impossible to put the book down. Wel1, hope that list gets you started. Remember .•. even book se:x should be safe sex. Protect yourself in the sun with su11glasses and SPF 15. And if you are borrowing someonoe's novel, ask them first about their reading history. You never know what you coultl catch in this day and age. ATTENTION ]UNIOBS!!! COME DISCUSS THE ISSUES THAT COULD AFFECT YOUR UNION FUTURE! -THE PUB! -ON CAMPUS LIVING! -PARKING! -SECURITY! BE THERE TO DISCUSS THESE ISSUES IN COLLEGE CENTER ROOl\1 410 AT 8:00 TONIGHT! ANNOUNCEMENT The Philosophy Department announces a competition f~r essay prizes traditionally awarded at Prize Day: The Celia Glaubach Prize- awarded to a student 1'.1110 has shown an interest in the cultural significance of the Bible from\' secular point of view by submittteing a work on one of the followi11tg subjects; literary and textual criticism of Biblical subjects; devel~pment and production of a short story or play based on the Bible; Bibli..:al archaeology; Biblical historicity, philosophy of the Bible. The Millon Hymes Sternfeld Prize- awarded for t~e best original essay in philosophy by a member of the senior class;. Harold A. Larrabee Prize- awarded to the student ~h<J has done the best work in philosophy during the year. Entries for prize competition should be sumbitted pseu-donymously to Mrs. Marianne Snowden, Humanities 215, not later than 12.00 noon on March 30, 1992. The author's name and campus address should be enclosed in a separate envelojle keyed to the pseudonym. Now you can have two of tile most recognized and accepted credit cards In the world ... 'IJsa® and MasterCarde credit cards ... Min your name.\ EVEN IF' YOU ARE NEW IN CREDITor HAVE BEEN iVRf'IED DOWN BEFORE! VISA® and MasterCarcl~ the credit tards you deserve and need for- ID-BOOK5-DEPARTMENT STORES-Tt.JJTION-ENTERTAJNMENI'- EMERGENCY CASH- TICHETS-RESTAURANI'S- HQTELS-MOTELS-GAS-cAR RENrALS- REPAIR5-AND 1'0 BUilD \OUR CREDIT RA TINGI GUARANTEED! VISA/MASTERCARD GUAfiAN'ItED ISIUI 011 MC*EW .ACIC Appro\'D.J absolutely guaranteed so MAIL THIS NO RI~K C-OUPON TODAY Father .of the Bride by Ca.rrie Sherman Concordiensis Staff Father of the Bride, starring Steve Martin, Diane Keaton and Martin Short is a comedy about the ordeal a family faces while putting on a wedding. Martin plays the father who is shocked when his daugfuter arrives home from a term in Europe to announce that she is engaged. Short plays the eccentric weddiDg coordinator (yes, they do have a wedding coordinator). His overexaggerated accent, while amusing at first, gets old as the movie progresses. The movie gets more and more absurd as the wedding's financial obligations skyrocket. Short and his assistant spend most of the movie trying to create the ideal wedding for this family. Martin becomes m()re and more frustrated as his wife, daughter and the weddin,g coordinator, who arre C()Htinually ganging up on him. Eventually Martin gives up and allows his home a11d wallet to become completely overrun, to the point where all the furniture is removed from his house and his front lawn is fiUed with swans. While the movie does evok.e some laughter (perhaps inevitable with this cast). it :is slow and lacks plot. Tl1e intentional focus, to depict a father's reactions to his daughter growing up all!d leaving home, is lost in tile overplayed emphasis on tile homosexual wedding coordina- tor and the incidental details of I Lhe overblown wedding. VIDEO CONCERT Tonight at 9 pm in the CC Auditorium there will be a concert of work by students in Composition with Videotape, taught by Professor Ross. Computer animation, digitized sound and image and original music will be featured. Move over, MTVl Come and see video and music by Union students! -------~----------------- STUDENT $.ERVICES.PO BOX 25g6,HOllYWOOD,fl 33022: YES! lwantVISA®/MASTERCARD~Credft : Cams. Enclosed find $15 which Is 100% refundable If not appro\'00 Immediately. NAME ADDRESS CfiY STATE -ZIP--- I • I I I I • I PHONE ----- S.S.II ------ I I SIGNAnJRE I I NOT£: MaslaQanll!la n:glaten:d lndtmark d MascerCanllnltmallonal. Inc. I I Ylslll Is a regtateml tndenark ol VISA liSA.. Inc. and VISA lnllemallonal I I SetYia:l AslloclsUon. 100% GUARANTEED! I I I L---~-----------------------------------------~-- -----------------------

Time To Study? As final exams approach, many students find themselves bogged down beyond belief with papers and readings. Now it's true that most students have nobody to blame for the situation but themselves; however, the school doesn't make efforts to alleviate the burden on its students. In fact, school policy actually makes the situation harder for the students to end their terms successfully. notes to be memorized for each class necessitate more time. Last term, classes ended on a Friday and students were expected to be prepared for final exams the following evening. This situation proved to be ludicrous and it was quickly decided that it would not happen again. The Academic Affairs Council decided to make a mandatory break between classes, such as classes ending on Friday and exams beginning the next Monday. It is easy to say that a student should ·be caught up at all times and that they should not be given additional time to make up for procrastination. However, this reasoning is both idealistic and shortsighted. Most students simply do not have the time to keep up in all three (or four) classes and lead some kind of happy life .. Anyways, even. if a student could keep up, two days is not enough. time to review the material as much as would be beneficial. The implementation of a substantial reading period would neither be radical nor difficult. Most universities and colleges have long reading periods in order to allow ·students the time they need to reach their academic potential. Union could easily put this idea into effect by beginning each term a week earlier or by making them a week longer. The system would make the students happier and would also bode well for their academic performance when finals rolled around. While this decision clearly made the situation better than the previous policy had, it is still not enough. The two day reading period does little to give a student time to study ten weeks of material. The huge amounts of readings to be reviewed and class 10,000 To the Editor: I would like to clear up some obvious misconceptions about the 10,000 Maniacs concert. First and forernost this particular concert had to be held in the Memorial Chapel, since the lack of adequate facilities is a large problem on our campus. On this particular college tour, _the 10,000 Maniacs are only playing 500- 1 ,000 seat arenas. Since we have no such place except the chapel that will hold this amount of people. I see no other choice. H anyo11e has any suggestions or cornments please feel free to come into the student activities: office and present your suggestions. As far as the rules and regulations are concerned, they are the same ones that are set for any other large indoor arena, such as the Knickerbocker. The following rules woul!l apply in the Knick as well: no smoking, no food or drink allowed inside, and no standing Misconceptions on the seats, etc. We are just reiterating basic common courtesy rules similar to other establishments. If you were one of the bold to break these rules. you risked the possibility of being thrown out of the show. The same thing applies here. We all want this to be a fun concert, and I feel that it will be. Just don't be stupid. Treat the place with care so that we can have future concerts in general. No, the chapel is not the place for a rock band and it will never be. The 10,000 Maniacs is the highest caliber \rock\ band that would ever be placed in the chapel. As far as indoor concerts are concerned, don't place mv committee or anv other student group at fault for an administrative decision. My committee, along with the help of other student committees, are fighting for the possibility for an outdoor concert. If you were to read the articles as they state, not how you want them to read, you would clearly understand the entire situation. The concert committee is trying its best to make the spring the best it can be. People don't understand all the rules and regulations that we are up against. What is placed in the paper is the final result of weeks of bureaucratic hassles-just to be able to hold a concert on campus. It is not easy to get an arena in which to hold a concert event. It is a lot of work and run around for very little appreciation. People are v:ery quick to criticize and slow to show praise. Just bf thankful that the administratior. approved the chapel for this event. Otherwise Sunday, April 5 would just be another Sunday here. So let's enjoy the first concert of what will be a great \concert filled\ spring term-in the chapel, rink, pub, and behind the college center. Lee Metchick '92 Concert Committee Chair Panhel Changes To Come To the Editor: In response to last Thursday's cross talk regarding sorority rush policies 7 several members of Panhellenic started moving towards implementing changes in the existing rush system. This past weekend at the North East Regional Panhellenic Conference in Pittsburgh, we as the Union delegates were fortunate to be exposed to the policies of other school's councils, as well as giving us the opportunity to question some of our own practices. We attended seminars. 011 such things as le:adership, conflict management, self- esteem, the social liabilities of Greeks, 'women do haze', brothers and sisters against drunk driving (BAD D) and rush for small Greek systems. In the months ahead there will be many changes, discussions and voting to implement this policy for next year's rush. Some of the main ideas include having independ- ents work with the Greeks, allowing sororities to sponsor informal gatherings during fall term, and placing less emphasis on the superficial qualities of the formal week of rush. None of these ideas are set in stone and every issue will be discussed, but it was reassuring to know that there can be changes made if we, as a community, feel that they are necessary. Please feel free to submit any questions or comments to Box #61 or #949. It is through this conference that we were able to inquire and learn more about Panhellenic and our individual chapters. We would like to thank the council and Dean Mammola for supporting us in our effort to make changes that we are sure wiu be beneficial to the entire Union community. Donna Ashton '93 Dawn Harrington '93 ~oob 1Lurk ®n jfinals! I Helped Steal $375,000 From Union To the Editor: I was very disappointed to read last week's article regarding the restrictions being placed on our term abroad programs. I was one of the lucky 63 students who was granted a non-Union term abroad this past fall (which led to a $375,000 loss to Union) and can honestly say that this program was better for me than any term abroad Union could have offered. Although the process was long and laborious (rewriting my essay on why I wanted to go to Australia three times) I was finally awarded pennission to study where I wanted to study. Clearly one of the best components of a non-Union terrn abroad was the opportunity to meet with other Americans who were on the same program as myself. I met people from all over the United States from schools both similar and dissimilar to Union. It was a breath of fresh air to meet people from outside the 2,000 person Union community that most of us are restricted to during our four years here. On my term abroad I was able to not only appreciate the culture of a foreign country, but also learn a lot about my own culture by con versing with other American students that would never attend a school like Union. It is truly a shame to think that I am one of a dying breed here at Union. In years past the school was supportive of anyone expressing any interest to study abroad. It seems that our new administration is only interested in a students' desire to study abroad as long as the student is willing to go through Union so that the college can make a profit. Is this not a school of education where the student comes first? Or is the important issue that of dollars and cents? After all it is us, the students, that pay for our education and we should be the ones deciding how we wish to complete our education. A final note to all juniors and sophomores applying for a non-Union term abroad - do not give up! The experience you Will receive away from Union for a term will more than compensate for the endless forms, essays and interviews you must suffer through now. Sincerely, Shields Day '93 Beta's Generosity Noticed To the Editor: Beta Theta Pi's assistance in providing infant fonnula was a major service to those in need in our area. With increasing numbers of people seeking our services, increased costs, and threatened loss of state funding, we rely on the generosity of others. The formula will insure adequate nutrition for a number of our infants who never seem to have quite enough. The Have Spring time, effort and costs the fraternity incurred will result in improved health and contented smiles from our babies and will prevent some of our moms from resorting to theft, drugs or prostitution to feed their little ones. We would like to thank the brothers of Beta Theta Pi for their caring and sharing. Sincerely, Barbara Morgan Community Outreach Worker a Nice Break!!

'• Shape Up Or Ship Out As pre-registration for spring term began, many seniors have found themselves in the precarious situation of attempting to fulfill last minute graduation requirements. While there is no excuse for the irresponsibility displayed by these students in waiting until the last minute, the administration's failure to deal with tthem on a respectable level regarding their predicament is reprehensible. clearly stated that he/she did not have time: to deal witJJ the problem and that perhaps he/she should seek refuge in the library. Although the administration is undoubtedly extremely busy, seniors ultimately pay tuition for ten m<Jf1e weeks and are accordingly entitled to ten more weeks of acceptable customer service. While the administration is not at fault for the procrastination of these students, it must still be held account11ble for the type of treatment and respect these students receive. While it would appear that in most cases the situation remedied itself in that classes initially deemed closed were reopened to allow for increased enrollment, the events which transpired prior to this development cannot be overlooked. If administrative officials are not prepare~ to interact with students in their time of need, perhaps the payroll needs to be adjusted. Moreover, when job responsibilities are no longer being fulfilled, it is time lo reallocate duties. In other words, SHAPE UP OR SHIP OUT! In an effort to gain entrance into a particular liberal learning F credit class, numerous seniors were refused meeting times with several prominent administrative officials. Moreover~ one dean . ' . ~ . ' . ·. · • ·- · · · · · . · -··.. . 0 ·bEJiE·E·ali· :_ Let's Put Our Heads Together To the Editor: The incident of head injury in the United States is overwhelming, with over 2 million head injuries per year resulting from automobile crashes, sport~ and recreational activities, violent crimes, etc. Of the survivors, 70,000 to 90,000 will have some life- long disability. (Taken partially from the draft version of \Traumatic Brain Injury Act of 1992\ to amend Title 42 of the United States Code.) Persons of the college student age are among the population which incurs most head injuries and for a college student this can be devastating. Whenever I speak about head injuries to my classes, I commonly find 1 or 2 students with such an injury. Some of these students did not know they had one until they heard my description in class. They knew something had changed since they bumped their head but they thought they were imagining some of the symptoms. Let me mention some common symptoms and then ask for your help. You might have a brain injury if you notice any of the following: lessened ability to concentrate or study, increased irritability and impatience, difficulty reading material as before the bump, occasional bright spots passing through your vision or perhaps the appearance of flutter-like activity at the peripheral of your vision, some balance problems or perhaps lightheadedness, ringing in the ears, increased incidence of headaches, increased difficulty following lectures or conversations, and poorer performance on exams and a feeling of frustration while taking them or studying for them. These are many of the symptoms of the \learning disabled.\ If you fall into this category you too might want to help us gather information requested below. The Federal government recognizes that head injury is often a misdiagnosed and poorly treated injury affecting a sizable population, causing them to be less productive than they have been in the absence of such an injury. At least part of the misdiagnosis and mistreatment is because .of the lack of information about die brain. In part to adjust for this lack of understanding, the government has established four regional centers called TBI-NET (traumatic brain injury network) located througbout the United States. The Eastern TBI-NET includes New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, and Puerto Rico. One of the studies whicll the network is making deals with the college student who has reGeived a head injury. The severity of the injury is not important. It wants information on all students so it might better recommend and set up support systems for such students. Remember, if you have any increased difficulty performing academically, your input will be valuable. If you have any of the symptoms mentioned above but are performing well, your input will be useful too. All information as related to you will be s tric tl y confidential. Please contact either Pam Burns, 518-439- 0034 or me at 370-6340 (my Chemistry Department office) and we will follow up from there. There is a survey which we would like you to fill ()Ut. Any in depth interviews ~ill be done by Ms. Burns and not me. Specifically, the four goals of the TBI-NET in their needs assessment of TBI college students are: l. to identify the number and characteristics of people with TBI within several ... post-secondary education systems in the region, 2. to document the service and educational systems in the region, 3. to train disabled student service staff within several .. . post-secondary education systems for students with TBI, and 4. to train practicing state VR counselors to effectively help clients with TBI select, e11ter, negotiate and fmish post-secondary education programs. Thank you for your help or giving me names of others who are not at Union College but would like to be included in this survey. Professor John R. Sowa Old Chapel. • • New Idea To the Editor: This campus needs a central social scene where students and faculty can gather together. Right now, fraternities are the only on-campus alternative. A campus pub would cater to these needs. President Hull announced that he would allocate funds for such a PllfllOSe. The first I heard of this idea r was when it was proposed to be in the Cabaret room (302 CC). This idea was subsequently shot down by various faculty and administration. The reason was · that it was not a central enough · location. Instead, President Hull proposed that it be in the area where the Dutch Hollow Restaurant is located. The ' Concord i ens is article covering this breakthrough informed the student body that the pub would be located in the back of the Dutch Hollow. It would be made up of three sections. The bar would be put in place of the video games. The other side, where the piano stands, would be where the bands wo11ld play and the pit , would be for students to sit and socialize. This idea would be great if this back area were enclosed by walls. Presently, the school is unwiiling to put the necessary money fOiward for construction because they want to wait and see if it will be successful. The catch 22 will insure the pub's failure because, without walls, many problems will arise. People use that area to study. I can't see how the two can co- habitate. Without walls, the noise, irrespective of live music, will be unbearable to anyone tryillg to get work done. President Hull does not want a dualistic carnpus. By this, I mean to say that he doesn't want only twenty-one year olds to use the pub. The plan is to have the bar area restricted to those who are legal to drink alcohol and the rest of the pub open to under age students. But this means that if I want to get a drink, I can't sit and talk to my twenty-year-old friend Jon at the same time because he is not allowed into the bar area and I am not allowed out of it if I still have a drink in my hand. Therefore, I propose another idea Why don't we put the pub in Old Chapel? (Note: above tbe Skellar.) First it is as central a . place as any on campus. Secondly .. it is a warm and comfo:N~ble atmosphere f()r both sttEd.ents and faculty to come alld talk. Thirdly, tbcre are full facilities on tlle premises and a bar that alrea<ly exists that can be easily moved back and f()rth when necde<l. It is big ellollgh to satisfy any demanding- crowd and it has all the nec:essary fire safely features that the Rathskeller does not)JOssess. In addition, it has gooci acoustics and it i~ able to acc()rnrnodate bands.lrl addressing the problem of under age ccns11rnption, the school can make up special I.D.s tllat can be piclc.«l up and presen te.<l whenever ~drink is purchased. Lack of ffli.s I.D. will result i;n no service <lt the bar. The onlr drawback to tlli s idea, so fa:r, is that they use thee , Old Chapel for alumni and trustee evellts. I don't see tlli.s as a probl~m. The scheduling can be work:ed cut if the schrol and PresicleJJt Hull are willing to compFomise. I NEED YOUR HELJ>UNION! Makea fuss, talk to your professors~ stop Deam Mammola on his lunch bre.<~l< and make hi111 listen to yolil. Let's not mak~ !l pub that's de:.stined to fail. Cliff Birbrower All letters to the editor must be typed, double spaced, signed with a name, ID and telephone number and submitted to the Concordiensis Office by 4:00 p.m. on the Tuesday preceding weekly issuance of C oncordiensis. ANONYMOUS LETTERS AND THOSE OVER 500 WORDS Wll,L NOT BE PRINTED . ' ' . . ·~ '' ~- ' - : ' -. . ' ~ . - :. ~ .. . . MARCH 27-29, 1992: NORTH EAST LESBIAN GA\# BISEXUAL STUDENT ALLIANCE 9TH ANNUAL CONFER:ENCE. Held at the Universiiy of Delaware in Newark, the conference will feature more than 50 workshops and guest speakers. Contact: Lesbian Gay Bisexual Student Union, (302) 451-8066. - • • • • ' ' ' • • • • •• • • • ' ' ' • • • • • ! • • ' • ..· ~ •• ·, • '- • - '

············································~········ • • • • • • : SEXUAL POLITICS : • • : WEEKSCHEDULE i • • • • • • • • • • • • : Wednesday, Aprill Dr. Frances Conley M.D. : : 11:30 ain CC Aud Professor at Stanford Medical School : • \Ruminations of a Mavaric Academic\ • • • • • • • : Thursday, April 2 National Women's Political : : 7 pm Location TBA Caucus : • Workshop in assessing candidates stances on • • women's issues • • • • • • • • • : Friday, April 3 Takyiwaa Manuh : • Lawyer and Senior Fellow at the • : Institute of African Studies, : • University of Ghana • • \Politics and the Status of Women in Ghana\ • _ • • • • • • • • : Monday, April 6 The Empowerment 2:50 pm : : 7:50 pm CC Aud Project : • Self Defense Workshop • • • • • • • • • : Tuesday, April 7 Movie \The Accused\ : : 7 prn CC Aud Starring Jodie Foster and Kelly : • McGillis • : Group discussion to follow : • • • • : April 1 thru April 7th 01arks the first : • annual Sexual Politics Week at Union, • : sponsored by The Women's Union and .. ··.·. : • The Women's Commission. It will • : include speakers, discussions, movies, : • and presentations all designed to • • heighten the campus community's • : awareness of gender issues in politics. : • All events are free and open to the entire · : : campus community as well as the . • • surrounding area. We sincerely hope Dr. Frances Conley will be the key speaker for Sexual Politics • : that all interested parties will attend. week, Aprn 1 - 7 · : : . : •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

I • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •- • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • : • CONCORDIENSIS • MARCH 5, 1992 • PAGE i3 The CHUC Rooms (Hu 016 & 018) are open: Daily Mon.~Thurs. 8:30 am-10:30 pm Friday 8:30 am-8:30 pm Wee!{ ends: Sat. 12:00 .pm4:30 pm Sun. 12:30 pm-8:30 pm During these time, Macintosh & IBM computers are available for students use (laser copies are 15 cents per page) . GOOD NEWS! S<l.wluk: MONDAYS, WEDNESDAYS & 1'111DAYS: FRE:-lCH l:.lQ P:>J GERMA...'i 3:00 P!'>l SP.-h'IISH 4:00 PM 'IUl!sDAYS & THURSDAYS: HEBREW 1:30 PM CHINESE 2:00 ·PM JAPANESE 3100 PM RUSSIA.'! ~:oo· PM To be considered lor financial aid, Foreign language news programs will be shown in the Language Lab (HU 010). All are welcome to attend . News programs are also transmitted for many other countries and will be recorded upon request. Faculty are welcome to borrow tapes. Ordinarily, they are kept in the lab for two weeks. For more .lnfonnatlon, call Carol Snyder, Language I.ab Technician, X6212. Language l:ab Hours: Mon.·Fri. 8:30am-4:30pm Sun.-Thurs. 7 pm-10 pm Anyone interested in attending the April 5th Pro- Choice March in Washington, D.C. can caH N amita at 382-7918 for ride information. Selling Spring Term? Looking to buy: VCR, bookshelves, refrigerator, computer. Call Sr. Marie at #6087 Uppercfass aid applications are availabl13 .through .lha Fillancial Aid Office ·ifl Seeker Hall. To be .considered for all financial ·aid ,programs. FAFs must be forwarded to CSS by March 1. 1992. All olher application materials are to t11e Financial Aid Office :by April 15, 1992 • STUDY BREAKS! Watch for return of Sandy Breaks in CC 404-Coming finals week -dates and time to be announced! LANGUAGE LAB HOURS Sexual Politics Week April1·7 Sponsored by the Women's Union and the Worral'S Commisssion LENTEN PROGRAMS AT ST. JOHN THE EVANGELIST CHURCH • Daily: Monday-Friday 8:30-4:30 Evenings: Beginning Thursday, March 5 and continuing 'tbroughout Lent, there will be a Communion Service at 12:15 P·M through Friday in the Church. A Communion ServiiCe is a praJerful sharing of the Word, composed of the Scripture Readings of the day, a reflection and the distribution of ~ommunion. The Commumi_,D Services will alternately be presided over by Deacon Frank Schickel, Sr. Kevina Byrme and Sr. Marie O'Ryan. Monday-Thursday 7:00-10:00 Weekends: Saturday 3:00-5:00 Sunday 1:00-4:00 Sunday 7:00-10:00 GERMAN READING wt. »~= PLEASED TO OFFCR UNION COUl!U.E Each year the Department of Modem l.ang11ages sponsors a reading by an Austrian writer and member of the International PEN Club. This year's author, Karl Trautmannsdorff, will read from his works on Thursday, March 12, at 2:30p.m. The reading, in Humanities Room # 117, will be in German. All are welcome . \lELECDMMUNICATIONS 131FT CERTIFICATES OA APPLICATIONS Are still available. They must be picked up from Mrs. Facenda in the Dean of Students Office (Room CC306). They are due March 11. *Please note. if you are going away spring term, you must turn in you application immediately. WHA i EVER THE OCCASION TELEPHONE GIFT CERTIFICATES ARE THE PERFECT WAYTOSAY 'HAPPY BIRTHDAY' •z]'T~FfS:.:. ®~:Ql~ •rM SORRY' 'WELCOME BACK• 8 GOOD LUCK\ mr:;(J,C .. '}. L>:::o,c:E' UNION C()LLEClE TELEPHONE 131FT CERTIFICATES ARE AVAILA8LE FOR PURCH~E AT THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS OFFICE. CO!.LEGS CENTERI103. FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 370.6411. THE NAVY NUCLEAR TEAM Get your start in nuclear power where nuclear power got started. In the U.S. Navy. The Navy operates more than half of all the nuclear reactors in the United States. Being on the Navy Nuclear Team puts you in an elite group. If you qualify, you can start in the Navy Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate Program and earn up to $30,000 before you graduate. The Navy .v:ill pay you as much as $1,1 00 a rnon th plus bonuses, and you'll never have to attend a drill or even put a uniform on until after graduation . . ., To qualify you must meet these requirernen ts: • Have completed sophomore year, majoring in engineering, chemistry, science or math. • Have a minimum3.0 GPA. • Have completed a mathematics sequence through integral calculus. • Have completed one year of calculus-based physi(:s. • Meet the Navy's physical standards . • Be no more than 25 h years old at the time of commissioning - • Be a United States citizen. FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL OR VISIT: 1-800-444-7134 NAVY OFFICER You and the Navy. Full Speed Ahead. CROP WALK '92, Sunday, April5. Sign up for the 1992 Crop Walk-a lOK walk in the Schenectady area to help raise funds in the fight against hunger. C:lll the Religious Programs Office #6618 or#6087 for more info . THE BIOLOGY DEPAR1MENT AND BIOLOGY CLUB Present \ASSEMBLY OF 1HE INTESTINAL BRUSH BORDER CYIOSKELEIDN' Dr. Matthew Heintzelman, Ph.D . Yale University Department of Biology Thursday, March 5, 1992 at 4:40 pm Refreshments at 4:30 Social Sciences Room 104 **Dr. Heintzelman is a candidate for the \Cell Biologist\ position DO YOU REMEMBER ... Your picture in the Freshman Record? Do you want it? If so .... come to College Center Rm. 405 now until the end of the term you may come and get it! Interested in being a D.J.? Well, then come to WRUC's General Informational Meeting on March 5 at 7:30 in SS016 *Fill out show request forms! Every fourth year, the Mrs. Edwin L. Rich Prize is awarded to the student \who has built the best collection of books for use during college\. For 1992, the award will be about $350.00. The collection should be a comprehensive and humane one, promoting the development of both character and intellect. GUIDELINES: 1) The library must comprise at least thirty-five books owned by the student and marked with his/her name or bookplate. 2) Paperbacks may be included; college textbooks may not. 3) The contestant must\submit to Maribeth Krupczak, Schaffer Library, a list of his/her books, together with a single page essay describing the aim and purpose of the collection. 4) The contestant must indicate 12 other books he/she would like to own and why. 5) The deadline for the submission of the list and essay is March 30th. This is the first day of Spring term classes. 6) Judging will take place April1-3 at the students' residence . CONGRATULATIONS! to the newly elected representatives to the Alumni Council of the Class of 1992 . Stephanie Fray, Garret Lasewicz, &Jon Lennon

OONOOR DIENSIS o MARCH 5, 1992 • PAGE 14 WARNING: THIS ARTICLE MAY BE HAZARDOUS TO YOUR HEALTH IF YOU ARE CONTENT WnH THE SOCIAL SCENE HERE AT UNION. IF YOU WERE UPSET OR OFFENDED BY MY \IMPORTANCE OF A BREWSKY\ ARTICLE, YOU MAY WANT TO STOP READING NOW. The Nerve Of Helga by Betsy Rothstein Concordiensis Staff Once upon a time there was a girl named Helga. She was not typical for she lived in a cave with her parents and her twenty-five brothers and sisters. Her entire family festered on the edge Gf existence; they did not shower, and soap was nowhere to be found. Each member of the family had their own club (picture the one Barn Bam uses in the Flintstones) and used it frequently. They dined on bowls of rocks, and dried leaf sandwiches were a delicacy. Helga, a heavyset girl, with long, scraggly black plain Jane hair was slightly on the brutal side. She knocked her brothers around whenever they got on her nerves. Once she accidentally gave her brother Brawny a concussion and fractured one of his ribs during what she thought of as a friendly wrestling match. She felt horrible about it afterwards. One day she was bored and strayed from the family cave. She was feeling a little adventurous and hiked for abGut four days when ultimately she stumbled upon a sixteen sided building that was-falling apart. Helga was dumbfounded, yet part of her was amazed and suddenly filled with curiosity. She had come face to face with that thriving metropolis known as Y datcenehcs. Helga, being illiterate, could not understand the people very well for she was accustomed to her native Neanderthal language. She also could not understand why everyone was wearing so many articles of clothing. After a few days at this strange place Helga became extremely interested in the school. To make a long stGry short she winds up attending this bizarre institution of Dear Alice, Last weekend I was at a party at a place where I feel very comfortable and was extremely drunk. I then knew it was time for me to go home. Since it was a place I was very familiar with, I went to a bedroGm to call security. I was in the room alone when a guy I did not recognize popped his head into the room asking what I was doing. I did not pay too much attention to him since I was not in my right state of mind. Before I cGuld realize what was happening he was kissing me and tried to push me on the bed. I was shocked and repulsed and told him to get away from me. He said that he had always wanted tG meet me. A few guys walked by in the hall, winked at him, and said to me, \This guy is a great guy.\ I managed to get away from him \higher learning.\ Her parents were extremely hesitant about sending her away to this \foreign\ place. \Oh my big little girl!\ her mother cried the day Helga left for college. (Helga towered over her parents but she wGuld always be their \big little girl\). They truly thought she was insane to want to go to this college and thought she was doomed. Believing they were losing their oversized little girl for good, they feared that she would never return to the family cave. Nevertheless, in the Fall of the next year, Helga's parents literally dropped her off at orientation. She was so excited about her new environment, she could not see straight. She felt a little out of place but knew she had a great deal to learn. She believed she could just squash the little creatures known as her classmates if they gave her a hard time or got on her nerves. In the beginning she made good use of her club, beating people if they smirked at her or even glanced at her wrong. Even President Hulk was very afraid of her. He wanted to pull a Kit Hathaway and get rid of her but did not want to risk another violent student uprising. One morning, upon doing the walk of shame from a nameless building with odd- looking greek letters on it. the disheveled Helga beat up an undesirable trying to break into the college's architectural mascot. (By this point she felt a strong emotional bond to this sixteen sided building.) Older men in white cars that spoke into little black talking boxes praised her along with the Ydatcenehcs Police Department, only they viewed her as a Hell's Angel, vigilante type. Helga was making auite a name for herself in more ways ar.d make it home safely. The next day thinking about the situation I felt really stupid and wondered if I had done anything to lead this person on. I felt that I hadn't but I wasn't quite sure. I am curious if I should worry about going out at Union College, even to places I feel very comfortable at because Gf this one instance? -Shaken-Up Dear Shaken-Up, When you decide to get drunk this is your choice; no one has forced you to drink. Therefore, because your actiGns are impaired somewhat, you have to be that much mGre .caref1d and sure of what you are doing. You had no way of knowing that some guy was going to show up and hit on you. rf his friends were in any than one. She had some adjustment problems when she attempted to mix and match her new acid wash jeans with a J. Crew sweater. This was absolutely unheard of and forbidden! (A social fallx pas in many social circles.) Sne received looks that cou:Id kill and smirks from every angle. People did not get away with this for long though, since her club was in their mouths long before a snide commentcould be made. Soon. many students were walking around with bruises Gn their faces, black eyes, fat lips, etc... The community was seriously afraid of Helga. Poor Helga did not mean to hurt those around her; .she was not fully aware of her own strength and did not take criticism well. It was simply an instinct to smack whoever mocked her and to make use of her brute force when ally undesirable crossed her path. Helga did not distingu i·sh be tween the undesirables of Y datcenehcs and those of the College; they were one and the same. Helga was flabbergasted as she observed large packs of students who always traveled together to the college center, or anywhere for that matter. She could not fathom why these large groups of people always seemed to be aerodynamically attached to olle another. One day curiosity overcame her and she marched up to Olle of the biggest boys in the pack. Helga asked him if he was magnetically bonded to his friends and if he could be surgically removed frGm them. (Helga was making the most of her $20,000 education and was using ller chemistry lingo to try and impress this boy who barely carne up to Helga's chin.) Th.e guy was furious to way the last, and told Helga to f ... off and to get away from • way ellcGuraging him to try and take advantage of you, or trying to convince yGu that this guy had good intentions. then they are sick and wrong. You should not feel stupid, as you did nothing wrong. You did nothing to make this guy belie-ve that you wanted anything to do with him. Even though this was a place where you may in fact feel comfortable, in a drunken atmosphere such as this, you can never predict what can happen, even with people you think you know well. Therefore, you must take precautions·. It is not wise to go upstairs tG a room alone. Everyone must be responsible for their own actions, especially when intoxicated. Being drunk is a terrible excuse for any wrongdoing that occurs. Alice him. Helga was hUit and upset and instantly felt tears stingillg her eyes. Upon reflex site grabbed her club and clocked the boy over his head, knocking him down onto the pavement in Library Plaza. The other guys in the pack, being the incredibly ·sincere a11d trustworthy friends that they were, started to move towards Helga in attack formatiolil biit suddenly changed. their minds when they noticed the ferocious, m~yielding look :in Helga's eyes, not to mention the white, frothy substance driveling out of her moutb. Helga took pity on the boys and instead of knocking the:m all out cold she rushed to Death Services to find out why slle was foaming at the mouth. SIJ.e knew that was not normal! The nurses were extremely hospitable and sent Helga on her way with some Sudafed !llld a heating pad. ....... 1-0 ... - I feel hypocritical presenti11g this story .seeing that I, too, arn part of the system that I am mo·cking. It is easy to get caught up in it. I am not against the system and can appreciate the positive side to it. While there are many gooo things about it at such a small school like Union, there are many pathetic aspects to whkh I and many others have allowed ourselves to be accustomed. I think it is imp<>rtant though to question something that is so _intact and stagnant; At a first or even a second glance at Union College, the various stereotypes are obvious. It is only when you look deeper that you realize there is in fact a great deal of diversity and open- mindedness amongst the students. In the story, people did not like Helga because she was different, not to mention the fact that she damaged anyone who looked at her wrong. She shook up the community and people could IlOt handle it. In actuality a great deal of people on this campus might be willing to accept someone as dangerous as Helga. She did what she wanted and she had nerve (risky, yet admirable qualities). I realize I am stereoptyping the campus with this story. I know there are many misconceptions to every stereotype and this is exactly my point: Things are not always as they appear to be. However, you have to wonder why they appear to be this way at alL There are positions available for I. SAC 2. Honorary Degrees Committees (Juniors needed for spring term of this year and a] of next year) Applications will be available in the College Center, room 408 untn March 5 at 4:30 pm UNION 'FRESHMAN FULL TUITION, FEES, BOOKS, AND SUMMER TRAINING WITH PAY Earn a regular commission as an officer in the Navy or Marine Corps while completing your degree at Union. HERE'S HOW! 13eneflts Include: e Full tuition and fees for your remaining time at.Union e NROrc Uniforms and all books free e $100 a month • tax iree • 1 o months per year • Paid summer trainir.g for four to six weeks each summer e Commission as a regular officer in the Navy or Marine Corps immediately upon receiving your degree Minimum Nomination Qualiflc:atlons: • Physically qualified e One semester of college including Calculus e Grade of \C\ or better in all courses attempted e Recommendation o-i Professor of Naval Science This is your opportunity to receive a full scholarship that pays all expe~~es except room and board and giiJes you $100 a month besides. OpportunitieS are limited so call Lt. Rahn at NROTC RPI. (276-6251) NAVY ROTC

. . ' - . . \ . . . · · . ·- - , - ·. -· E·ErAJ:I~lB·E&-- .. COt-JOORDIENSIS • MARCH 5, 1992•PAGE 15 The Magnificent Mallo mar by Dass Seaman Concordiensis Staff Wilen I was but a lass of a Dass:., on many •occasions I would tag along with mom to the kingdom of cookies, cakes, sugar-coated cereals. and candy. Yes lord! The grocery store! But (){ course my mom was not ilie .type to indulge her childien in such luxuries. It was like watching Willy Wonlm's chocolate factory on TV. You can drool, but you don't get any satisfaction by licking the screen. As a resourceful kid I found my own means of attaining what my tummy most desired. Usually I helped my mom bag the groceries. I would stand at the end of that whatever you call it. The register-place-with- the-conveyor-belt-that- brings- the- groceries- to- where -the- brown-bags-are-t bing. That's right, the check-out counter. This one time, I discovered that at the end of the check-out counter the:re were shelves •••e••••••••••••••••••••••o••••••••••••••••••••••~•••••••• • • • • • • • • . •· • • . n[ . i nave a i • • • • • • : :J{appy ~ • • • • • • • • • and 1fea{tfiy i Spring r:Breaf(f ! • • • • • • - •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ATTENTION POETS Owings Mills, Maryland (USA)-The National Library of Poetry has announced that $12,000 in prizes will be awarded this year to over 250 poets in the North American Open P.oetry Contest. The deadline for the contest is March 31, 1992. The contest is open to everyone and entry is FREE. Any poet, whether previously published or not, can be a winner. Every poem entered also has a chance to be published in a deluxe, hardbound anthology. To entec send ONE original poem, any subject and any s1yle, to the National Library of Poetry, 11419 Cronridge Dr., P.O. Box 704-PP, Owings Mills, MD 21117. The poem should be no more than 20 lines, and the poet's name and address should appear on the top of the page. Entires must be postmarked by March 31, 1992. A new contest opens April 1 , 1992, undemeath. On tbese shelves were already opened bags of candy and cookies. Could this be true? Could I very easily Feach my hand under there while no one was looking and grab me some kid ambrosia? Nothing was going to get in my way. Anything is possible when you're a kid. Real nonchalantly I leaned forward against the end of the counter and began feeling around. The :Plastic cookie bag made its crunchy plastic noise. I coughed a little to cover up the crackle. My mom looked at me inquisitively. I just smiled ever so sweetly and innocently. She smiled back and began writing her check. Fooled her, yea! I went back to work. My hand grasped the hard chocolate lump. My heart was pumping. it was a Mallomar! My hand seized it and I snatChed it out of the bag. I desperate! y needed to hide my loot, but I didn't have any pockets-and I couldn't eat it right there for the risk of getting caught. So I shoved the Mallomar down my pants. After Is2fely left the grocery store (and those silly little dumb grocery store people), I got in the 11ack seat of the car. I began to search my pants for the hidden treasure. I couldn't find it, although I felt that Mallomar :! ump next to my body. Oo,ps! I stuck the chocolate covered treat in my underwear. It was all melted, but delicious! Definitely worth it. The nextday, after my mom did the laundry, she told me that if I had to go t · the bathroom tllat bad, I should tell her. Department of English to Sponsor Writing Prizes The Department of English will sponsor its four annual prizes for student writing. Students with an interest in creative writing shoul<l consider entering work for the Academy of American Poets :Prize, for the best poem by a Union undergraduate, and tile Yudis Prize, which will he awarded for a work of fiction. Freshmen may enter essays in the competition for the Van Orden Prize; these essays may be on any subject, and may be specially written for this award or revised from course assignments. Work from the Freshman Preceptorial classes is welcome. The Allen Essay Prize will be given for the best non-fiction essay from a senior in any depaitment. All entries should be submitted to the office of the Department by Monday, March 16. Please label your entry with a pseu{)onym and include a sealed envelope (also identified by- the pseudonym) with your real name, box number, ani! the title of your work inside. Pleace the entry and the sealed envelope in a large manila envelope, marked with the name of the prize for which it is submitted . If you have any questions, please contact Professor Smith in Humanities 121, x6573 . KELLY'S PUB Your Place for FOOD & DRINKS & FUN Students always welcome Check our Daily Food & Drink Specials 372-6794 SENIORS Thought about speaking at •'Why. thank you. ~ •• Thank v_ou very muchl,. Commencement? If you are interested in speaking, submit a 1-4 page (approx. 5 min.) draft to MRS. MARRA in CC 408 by April17. The topic is y(mrs to choose. Please include your ID number~ name, box and phone numbers. If you wish to sing the Ahna Mater and the National Anthem, please send your name, box and phone numbers to Mrs. Marra, CC408 before Apri117 and you will be notified about an audition.

PER!iDl\IAL!i at 3:30. I want to take you in the Gardens and love you all over. Important Message for L & L: It's not the size ei the WAVE, butthe motion ofthe ocean, and FF has the afuility to Rock the Boat! Great Food & Fun! Friday Nigllt Dinner at the Kosher Kitchen - 6 p.m. - BE THERE! Lipdog, The Best of Broadway on Sunday 10:00-11:30 a.m. on WRUC 89.7. Look for new time next semester right here. Excellent college career. Congramlations, and I ho:pe you stick around for the bashres in the spring. I miss you gttys - can't wait until spring! To Sa·mmy, Hetter, Cindy P. Hills, Shermie, S.tina and Cheryl, Jewish Soul Food to cure that hangover! Bagel Brunch witlt Lox! Sunday at 12 nooll in the Kosher Kitchen - ALL WELCOME! Topic is anti-semitism in the global context! To the Pledges of Tri-Delta, Greetings from Athens! Our term here is almost over amd we are so excited to meet you this spring. We hope that you are having a g.reat time pledging. Good luck on yOtur finals! See you soon! Good luck on finals and get .sludying out of your system because uext tem:1 is going to be awesome! Mis:s vou and can't wait to see you on March 30. Love, Liz Love, Jen and Liz Czech, To Mary Beth, Sozanne and Kate, Between Sega Hockey, Jeopardy, and alcohol, you're gonna be luggage in the Spring. To the Sisters of Tri-Delta, Hi Guys! We miss you and can't wait to sec you this spring! Get )JSyched for s.ome serious farnUy partying this spring! Love, Liz Miss Landers, Love, Your Greek Goddesses You, yes you! You know who you are. Meet me in the College Center Sto!) destroying ALL of your U·N·I·O·N·'S EEK FRIDAY, MARCH 6 12:15-1:30 p.m. College Center. Russian and Japanese conversation tables. 3:30-4:3lJ p.m. College Center 204. Chester Arthur meeting. 3:45p.m. Hum 213. Philosophy Colloquium: John Yolton, John Locke Professor of the History of Philosophy at Rutgers University, speaking on \Active Matter, Active Mind: Locke's Ontology of Power.\ 7-9 p.m. College Center 409. Bible study. 8 p.m. Memorial Chapel. The Museum/ College Concert Series presents The Boston ·Camerata. 8 & 10:30 p.m. College Center aud. Fihn: \Cape Fear.\ 8:08p.m. Nott Memorial. \Our Glass\: Sen- ior Theatre project. SATURDAY, MARCH 7 8 & 10:30 p.m. College Center aud. Fihn: \Cape Fear.\ SUNDAY, MARCH 8 7:30p.m. Old Chapel. Interdenominational Protestant Worship. 7:30p.m. St. Jolm the Evangelist Church. Catholic Campus Ministry mass. 8 & 10:30 p.m. College Center aud. Fihn: \Cape Fear.\ MONDAY, MARCH 9 12:15-1:30 p.m. College Center. French con- versation table. 6:30-7:30 p.m. College Center 204. Students for Political Action and Awareness meeting. 7-8:30 p.m. College Center 410. Speaking Hands club TUESDAY, MARCH 10 11:30 a.m.- I p.m. Hale House. Faculty soup and beverage club. 12:15-1 p.m. College Center. Chinese con- versation table. •.-q'•....,\ W-\'JN•.. 3-4 p.m. College Center 204. Big Brothers/ Big Sisters: 'drop-in' meeting. 7 p.m. College Center aad. Women'~; Studies film: \Abo•rtion: Stori~s From North ancl South.\ 8 p.m. College Center 302. Crosstallc, WEDNESDAY, MAFICH 11 11 a.m.-2 p.m. College Center atrium. Staff Association bake sale. Noon-1 p.m. College Center 203. Stlili' Association meeting. 12:15-1:3() p.m. College Center. Gennan and Spanish c01nversation tables. 8:30p.m. College Center 302. Film: \Henry and June.\ THURSDAY, MARCH 12 Noon-2 p.m. College Center. Chess t.able. 12:30-1:3() p.m. College Center 406~ Investment Club meeting. 2:30p.m. HUM 117. The Departmeat of Modern Languages S]Jonsors Austria:n writer Karl Trautmarmsdorff :reading from Ills works. The reading will be in Oermll!l. . 6-8 p.m. College Center 409. Student Forum meeting. FRIDAY, MARCH 13--CLASSES END 12:15-1:3() p.m. College Center. Ru~;sian and Japanese c10nversation t~tbles. 7-9 p.m. College Center 409. Bible s1Udy. 8 p.m. College Center 302. Coffeeh()use. SATURDAY, JIAARCH 14 8 p.m. Memorial Chapel. Empire St&te Youth Orchestra concert. SUNDAY; MARCI-115 8 p.m. Memorial Chapel. Albany Pro-Musica concert. CONCORD! ENS IS • MARCH 5, 1992 • PAGE 16 friendships, it's not worth it, or is it? HE·LP WANTED· I need two people· to help with spring cleaning (inside and outside) Wendy, Bold move in choosing door #2. Just remember, I CAN read your mind and I DO know wbat you are thinking. ! during the vacation period. I'll pay you and feed you. Call or leave message: Prof. Reynolds; 370-6217. Love, the know-it-all Tamster, Thank you so much for your support last week. ... so glad you're back. Good luck with your FF- I know that everything will work out for the best. , '89 DODGE DAYTONA i ES White, 5-speed, AC, loaded, i 35K miles. Must see. $6,100. i 346-6035. Love, J. C'LA§§IFI.ED§ EARN $200-$500 weekly mailing travel brochwes. For information send a stamped addressed envelope to: A TW Travel, P.O. Box 430780, South Miami, FL 33143. TYPING • My Rotterdam home $2.50/pg. 355-7892. collegiate crossword ©Edward Julius Collegiate CW8708 ACROSS 1 Ro 11 er-coas ter ride sound 7 Fundamentals 13 Fee·1 i ng of failure 15 Pickering or Hogan 15 Resort or car 17 Straighten again 18 Wrong 19 ---- in one's side 21 Lao-- 22 State ---- 23 Well-known club 2~ Public disturbance 25 Before 26 \Stompin' at the \ 27 Bartletts 28 Was ambitious 30 Gives out cards 31 Breakfast dish 32 Henry, John, or Glenn 33 Treeless plain 35 Revives (2 wds.) 38 Roger or Dudley 39 Openings 40 World War II agency 42 \It's-!\ 12 Rains froz:en 43 Stuck· in mud raindrops 44 Tease 14 Original i nhab- 45 P\art of NNP itants 46 Wrestling holds 15 Chum 47 Pertaining to birth 20 Juvenile ~elinquent 49 Hydrogen, for one 23 \Key -'\ 51 Testimonial 24 Studies 53 Vehement speeches 26 Actress - Hasso 54 Obtains 27 Fathers, in France 55 Proceed in a 29 Arctic explorer gliding manner 30 Like St. P'eter's 56 Hate 32 Wooded areas DOW~'! 1 Predicament or fight 2 Imaginary monster 3 Gorges 4 Sponsorship (var.) 5 Greek Mars 6 \Bei - Bist Du Schoen\ 7 Dutch Africans · 8 Astronaut Shepard 9 Spanish fo·r sun 10 First 11 Bleeps 33 Flowering plant 34 Pillagers 35 Irish city 36 Severe pain 37 Pain relievers 38 Valuable French paintings 39 Ancient Br-ltishers 41 Most competent 43 Bank inve~tory 46 Mother of Clytem- nestra 47 French res~rt 48 Touch on 50 --jongg 52 Buttons or Barber -:=!~!!!= 'T m greatly impressed by your ability to do the work of 10 lazy tncn.\ ''Yes, I know it's better to give than receive. But you won't be receiving the car keys.~; \I must tell you that my prayers during exam week were not answered.\ \I know 'Rap' isallrhyme.Ican think of one word it rhymes with!\

Attend the 2nd CA;PI!TAL DISTRICT COM~MUNIIYCONFEREN'CE ON CR~I:ME & :CRlMINAL JUSTICE SPONSORED BY iHE 'CENTER FOR LAW & JUS11CE, INC. SATURDAY, APR·t,L 11, 199:2 ~:30 AM • 5:00 PM EMPIRE STATE PLAZA CONVENTION CENTER • \SEPA.FiATE AND UNEQUAL- RACIAL 8/AS'f/1 POLJC/NG AND THE COURTS\ SPECIAL GUEST SPEAKERS: Mr. DON JACKSO~, forn-..rly Clflho Hawthomo.'CA.,Pollce Dept. \uclge NICHOLAS FIGUEROA, ',1/'lco Chal~, Franklin H. Wllflams JudlciBI'Commlsslon on 1\!lnorttloo COMM·UNlTY M.EETING -----~ LUNCH • I:NFORMATIONAL BOOTHS ENTE.RTAINMENT . . : .· T/li_,~~·j,,fc~11;·_~-- &.r!stiJ}JIHLW.tid/1): Alll;a._n>· (\llliiJ)''C\ilJliph:ik~ll\-\o_C~ri;11<: v~~'fjn~ A. ... ~i.~t.ltlA.'t Pr•l;or•ili•_Aih.),n)\ f'uu~ir ~~~~~IP INruir'ltk.<ni' •AIIt.:inJ• n ... lnl): '·_- ~· \rv:1~ C'\1 AI\~)-Ut~f!UI~ M~ll_i.lliron_ Pru~l11'~ ,AI!Imr.E7i-:nd~ !1.1.·~••n:;. A!h:;:ll!y ~~~-~·It)_ •• ~ Alh.lll)· OtapM' t\1\.AC-'.P.. Mhv _IIIII C!lhmtunil)\ r~ra•_ . ·Diik:l..~ In G11wrn.i~o:_p1• C'JjliiJilh_~riL1r .. lJ~IIitln 1\~in;!.:'\[\U'IIIl.·id&_ILwi~na·~· Capj1Jll)~~~m1 J_II:'\JUP:k(->ia:rr.:.ll.:h s,.,.liL-..·$ •n·nfm(\ 1 ,: 1 ~-u, All~n)·o~a·• ·· C'er11w f•rku_. Amsl.•rdJm: S)' ° C)ll1~·n~l\\11••n ~ Ctlf' tl!ntl)\ Jiun:u11 Ri~b~-'C\'ontpt.L~-~j •(',~wml 1 1( Alh.J~)- S'dtbhochu,;l ~~~i~li .. ~'i • _C\rimi'n.ll.J~i~): ' ' . fu.,.~rJI)l at na.: SJJ,:..-Ttlll.:~·':t ·_l~lllP.,Il, ,_,a· •• !_l~blla v~u.'}' Ct_IUIUIL!IIilr C\nllt:g.:: C\rimirrp.U!l.. .. lli,\. 0 D~l\'f111Jt.ml·.l~\\·.Onf.:r. _ocndJtblit.'l\ G_·_nki'•-' L>c;~i t\.lll: s,_ .. ll't~··· ~~_IJ,•f;J,II LiW)'tr~ Gu1IJ· C~~ul_ l)cin~1 n~a• K~\-··Y.t•L: Ci~·ill~~'li'i\Al:nJun- f\_(lil<ll D1.~nl1 CTI.lJlt~·~· ~cw\'lYio S1;u~ Pl.llilhlll Apm.'-1_ D···~·.qw 'Vi~llo!<~\l ~ ~li\' \~ .... k S1~1 .. • ~lX\IUii:.1:1it'll(l,tlijo('ror~~~~ll,\ .• X.:~;~.· ''ori.:Sra~o: ~>-:r~n.kr'•A~~~iaLio~·· t\~~· ~·~a.·st.:u.! Di_\i~ioo r~ ~\oulh.;.. · ·N~ .. ~- Yurk .ST.ll~ ~\'l.~J'Wl :uf 1 1 .:&n•<!' '!I' ~·e¥o' '{rd.:. Stllc.I~J~IIdtf Wnm~:il .Vur-:.r~ .··.~L'W Yurk !ih_r.:- f\il~~ • P..-~.utl Sm.i~o\:' C\lnuu:~u~ olrll~ i\l~n}' Fri.:~. !1.1L-.!ting·· rn~nn~~ ~Uj•_rilft X~Jl\\PJl tt..D.<.~f..ac.'tln_lt Pul!lj.¢ JJ.;fl.'n'll ... -r.~ nrt'i'c-~. Sd~rl.:Cio)<Jy 1\:A/\l'P• 5i.:JIA'(,\tllk~.:- ,Sfk:-hllt~y-O...p.mrlll.'til•~.l~ ... Ucl~L~y ~N-:w:Y~~ :ll.tUIWll'.·_~iwntor-;nnU~l1~:~c~lil~· • Sr--at~·l~f!J~· ... ~,iJoOt{ ~:~ \\trL_·M.Al!a.tnY~~~nk-. 111 nl Afli!-\•up. ;; 1 oo~..-~~ $J_a_t_~w~1\•_Y~h AU\·oa;.;s• _, . n~ Wllhil.'il..oi_~_UIIill_l].~.· T1i~~l rl)'l~in,rri?M· I~l.'. • t'~i,lll_G~u.~. ~~il;.:~·,ir St~'i·il~li.'Y-~~ 1\n~'I!'~'P\~ogy •-rtt~n Li:.:~~~ t'r.~~~-At~or AI~·_': •• I' on and get a Grasp on the Campus KARCH 1992 Concoridensis 1991-92 SPRING TERM REGISTRATION-CHECK IN PROCEDURES ~ wishes everyone at ~ Union ~ a wonderful Spring Tell!l classes will begin on Monday, March 30th. Students schedules will be distributed to student mailboxes located in the College Center prior to the beginning of classes. Duplicate copies of class schedules will be availabl:e in Old Chapel on the first day of classes. Formal regis· tration will take place in OLD CHAPEL on MONDAY, TUESDAY AND WEDNESDAY, MARCH 30th, 31st and APRIL lst. Students are reminded that ALTHOUGH YOUR SCHEDULE MAY BE ~OMPLETE (NO CI~NGES) YOU ARE STILL REQUIRED TO FILL OUT THE REGISTRATION PACKET. The Registration Check-In procedures consist of the following: 1.) Pick up registration packet, 2.) Fill out and make necessary corrections to the data. 3.) Drop cards in designated boxes. SPRING· BREAK!~ This process is ·required of EVERY STUDENT EACH TERM THEY ARE IN ATTENDANCE AT UNION COLLEGE regardless of ~hether or not they have finalized their schedule or have paid for the term. Failure to complete the registration packets may jeopardize financial aid awards and academic credit. Registra tion packets are cons,id'ered late after 4:30 p.m. on Wednesday, April lst. and those studen~s will receive a prescheduling appointment for Fall term on FRIDAY, MAY 29th. which is the last day of prescheduling. If students still have not checked in by 4:30 p.m. on Wednesday, April 8th an addition al penalty of A $35 fine will be imposed. If you anticipate returning to school late, please notify the Registrar's Office immediately, Provided there is a legitimate reason, we may be able to waive the late fee. It is however, the stude\nt's responsibility to notify their instructors if they , anticipate returning late for classes. The last day to declare a course \Pass-Fail\ is FRIDAY, APRIL 3rd. The last day to make schedule changes (add, drop, section changes) without special permission is FRIDAY, APRIL lOth. Any course dropped or switched after that date will result in a grade of \W\ on the student's transcript. Payment of term bills or to resolve any billing problems will be handled i the Business Office located in the AdminiStration Building. AFRICAN DANCE CLASS THAT WILL MAKE YOU MOVE, SHAKE AND SWEAT YOUR FULL BOOY AND SOUL to the GREAT BEATS AND RHYTHMS of LIVE AFRICAN DRUMS ? Starting: MONDAY MARCH 30TH 1992 OMOYE COOPER Classes are divided into 2 sessions The director of the Burundi African Dancers of the Capital District Mondays 7:00pm-8:30p\nL -March 30th.l99~ will start teaching Traditional West African Dance Saturdays 4:00pm-5:30pm -April 4th. 19LJ2 here at Union College The cost of the class for the tcnn has now been reduced to $85.00 For students with a Union College ID. (paid in advance) $12.50-single class $100.00 for non Union College Student> (paid in ad,arH·e) $15.00 -single class $150.00 for those who wish to take both classes: (paid in advance.) The classes are limited to 15-2() students per session. *****Sign up in the Arts Department office NOW!***** For Further information Please contact MiH Cooper at: Days- 518-473-9119 Evenings-5 18-370-4943 Student contact-Anwinette Aime at 386-41169 • • GOODLUCJ( ON FINALS From Your Friends at: • • • • • • • Concordiensis would like to thank its SENIORS for a job well done: • • • • • • HOURS: Sunday-Thursday 11 m-1 am; Friday, Saturday 11 am-2 am EAT IN -TAKE OUT FREE DELIVERY $7 00 minimum: 49¢ maximum rharg.f! 370-3928 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Laurel Alessio • • David Burg • • Steve Carr • • Stephanie Fray • Jordan Lippner • • Julie Medow • • Wendy Oremland • • Andrew Rosen • .Sari Skolnick • • Dan Strum • • • • • Go·od Luck, We'll • • Miss You!! • • • \\ \<

L ' 0 0 ' ' 0 : -~~·-· · a· ··'a··· ·a .. · :~:··· &. · · · · · · · · -- · · · · · · ·. · · · · · · · :; :·,: O : L 'O < ~ ' ' ' ' ' .0 0 ' '< ,·. 0 ', ' O 0 •' ' CONCORDIENSIS MARCH 5, 1992 • PAGE 18 Union Hockey's Season Comes Inaugural To a Close Continued from pag-e 20 own. Albert fed a streaking Flowers who cut around the outside of the defenseman. Flowers then made a nifty move to his left and banked a backhander off the post to tie Union is now part nf the higfuest level of college hockey in this country. It is definitely something to look forward to for years to come. I have been around for a few seasons, four to be exact. I've seen the Shayne White Captures Dukeharf Kinghoms, the Logans, and the Campbells pass through the Union hockey program. All great players. However, I've spent every season with the present senior class. I can safely say that the athletic effort that this group has put forth this season has matched any such effort here at Union over the years. Even in games that were seemingly out of reach, this team kept its poise and played with an incredible amount of pride. Union Hockey is one of the things that I will miss most about Union College. However, when I follow the team in seasons to come, I can look back and say that I was a par~ of history. Best of luck to the graduating seniors, and most of all best of luck to the Union Hockey tradition. · Award Senior goalie Shayne White was awarded the Thomas Van Arden Dukehart Award during a brief ceremony prior to the . Skating Dutchmen's ECAC Division I hockey game against Yale on Saturday, February 29. The award, which originated during thv 1977-78 season to preserve the memory of Thomas Van Arden Dukehart, is presented annually to the Union College hockey player the score at 3-3 going into the third period. The third period was characterized by tough checking and strong defensive posture. However, Union managed to break the stalemate. Freshman Matt Kelley made a spectacular rush up the ice as he carried the puck into the zone. Kelley then fired a centering pass on net with the goalie making the initial save. However, Flowers was there to collect his second goal of the game as he put Union ahead 4-3. Union retained this lead for the remainder of the period save nine seconds. However, this part is too painful to go into again. It was an exciting game and an exciting season for that matter. with the highest grade point average. This marks the second consecutive year that White has captured the prestigious trophy. White, a computer science major, played in 19 games for the Dutchmen during his career, compiling a 3.55 gpals against average, an 88.4 save percentage, and an 8-3-1 record. Shayne is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Stan ley White of Kennetcook, Nova Scotia. Greg Eccleston Wins Charles N. · Morrison Award Junior defenseman Greg Eccleston was awarded the Charles N. Morrison Scholarship Award prior to Union's season-ending ECAC Division I hockey game against Yale on Saturday, February 29. The award is an endowed scholarship that was created from the gifts of friends in the memory of Charles N. Morrison, Union's head hockey coach from 1978 to 1988. The award, established two years ago, is given annually to a student who participates in . extracurricular activities while demonstrating academic interest· and achievement. I Eccleston, who is a political 1 science major, enters the final. weekend of the regular season as one of Union's top defensemen. Last week Union upset homestanding Cornell, 6-4. Eccleston is among the 19 players who are expected to return next year. Women's B-Ball Continued from page 20 campaign, graduates after having played ia 57 games. She tallied 140 points with 164 rebounds. While Union wiU certainly lose a great deal via the graduation route, the Dutchwomen have a solid nucleus returning. Freshman guard Andrea P~gnozzi broke into the starting lineup midway through the year and finished second to Romer with her 279 points. She also contributed 103 rebounds (fourth on the team), and 75 assists (second). Sophomore guard Andrea Light returned to her starting point guard position after a preseason injury and contributed 83 points, 42 rebounds, and 41 assists. With two years under her belt, Light will be looking forward to what promises to 'be an outstanding junior season. Sophomore forward Michelle Kleinhans finished second to Romer in the rebounding department with 102 and improved her point total to 109. Meanwhile, freshman Deb Montano saw a good deal of · playing time toward the end of the year, contributing 64 points and 28 boards. \I think we've got some good talent and experience returning next year,\ stated Little. \The success that we achieved this season will help in my recruiting which in tum will make us a better team in the near future.\ Dutchmen Hockey Final Scoring Statistics Men's Swim Record Season PLAYER C r a i_5 Ferrero 8 i 1 l Rail ton Dalton Menha~l J a,, son Flowers Rick Clifford Scott Whitney Chris A l bert Tim Cregan Rick Burchill B i 1 1 McKenna Dean Goulet Cor 1 HolbrOUih Matt Kelly Jeff Jiamoetti Gre' Steele Kevin Sullivan Alex Maclellan Wally Bzdell Greg Eccleston Gary Edrnans Jon Quint Keith Darby Dave Tessitore Steve Battiston Dalton Gustafsn Bob Hussar G A 15 17 10 15 14 8 9 9 6 12 2 16 5 9 5 5 4 6 1 6 1 6 2 3 1 4 1 4 0 4 2 1 1 2 1 2 1 1 0 2 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 PTS 32 25 22 18 18 18 14 10 10 7 7 5 .5 5 4 3 3 3 2 2 1 0 0 0 0 0 Continued from page 20 Bowden set a school record in the 200 individual medley, in which he finished third, while finishing fourth in both the 100 and 200 freestyle events. Sven Zabka set three school records in the 50, 100, and 200 backstroke events, finishing in the top five in the latter two. Andy Wagshul finished sixth and eighth in the 100 and 200 freestyle respectively, while Cliff \the iron-man\ Shaw set a school record in the 500 freestyle and the 1650 (or mile) freestyle, in which he finished eighth, and then followed np with a seventh place in the 200 butterfly. James \rotorooter\ Ernst, finished in the top eight in the 50 freestyle. There were many other great individual performances in addition to these. This was also the most successful year for all the relays. To start off, the B- relays won 4 out of 5 of the B- heats. This means major points '' .. .·· .. '.. . . .· . ' ' . '•. . . ' ' ' . in this meet. In fact some of these relays actually broke some of the current school records. This is great because four years ago, we didn't have enough people to make some of these relays. The A-relays also swam out of their mind as they reset all the school records. The 200 freestyle relay of Ernst, Quarrier, Wagshul, and Yousey finished third, while the 400 medley of Zabka, Robbie Johnson, Humphreys, and Bowden finished sixth. Tile 200 medley relay of Zabka, Tremaglio, Humphreys, and Ernst finished first making them the first state champion relay in Union history, while the 800 freestyle relay of Zabka, Walsh, Wagshul, and Bowden finished fourth. Finally, the 400 freestyle relay of Zabka, Yousey, Wagshnl, and Bowden finished fourth to end the meet. All these relays swam incredibly and deserve lots of credit for fme pelfonnances. Men's Track Competes At CTC's by Greg Barrett Concordiensis Staff Last Saturday .and Sunday saw the Men's Track team at Southern Connecticut State University to compete in the CTC Championships. The track was slightly unusual in that it ran underneath the overhanging bleachers. The meet itself proved to be very challenging. Seton Hall, Cornell and New York Tech., the post powerful teams in the conference, were mysteriously absent, but the biggest challenge turned out to be the organization. It has been aptly nicknamed the Chaotic Track Circus by a member of the Stony Brook team. Despite the general disorganization, the Dutchmen performed extremely well. Junior Bill Taylor, after a shaky start, cleaned up running four different events. His debut in the 800m gave him a 2:·09 .02 and a greater respect for the level of competition in this event. Taylor then carne back to win his heat in the 200m with a time of 24.23. Adam Davidoff started his day off with a 55m time of 6.9 seconds and finished with a new seasonal besi in the 400m - 55.37! Senior Pete Protzel followed Adam's lead with a 55.58 and a new seasonal best. Ed Dorsey racked up a new seasonal best with a 4:36.17 in the 1500m. Freshman Josh Haines picked up a new PR in the lOOOm crossing in 2:49.41. Greg Barrett fought his way to a seasonal best of 2:08.25 in the 800m. The relays saw Haines, Dorsey, Scott Paulinski l:!,nd Mike Emmi combine for a 8:58.3 in the 4x.800m. Emmi came up big with a PR of 2:14.9. The 4x400m saw the unusual combination of Taylor, Protzel, Rich Zembek and Barrett knock out a 3:41.5. Barrett scored another seasonal best of 56.5 in his anchor leg. In the field events, Glen \Crash\ Meixell sailed over 13 '6\ in the pole vault to score Union's only points. His fourth place finish gave the Dutchmen four points. Keith \Beef\ Reynolds popped out a put of 35' 1 l/2\. Coach Dave Herrington was impressed with the team's overall performance. There were many of the highest marks of the season despite the fact that we had a hard week of :practice. This weekend the Dutchmen are headed for the State meet at Colgate on March 6 and 7. • • ' '. '. • • ' ·' .' '. • • • - • l • ' • • • • • .. ' •

· . ·. · . ·. · ·. ·.· ... · · ·.·· · · · •·· saoBiii · CONCORDIENSIS • MARCH 5, 1992 • PAGE 19 · Union Swimmers Make Nationals Courtesy of Sports Information The Union College women's swim team captured its second consecutive third place finish in the New York State Women's Collegiate Athletic Association's Swimming and Diving championship last weekend at Union College. The meet saw Union qualify five women for the NCAA meet. The men had two swimmers qualify. The 200 ·medley relay team of junior Julie Benker, sophomore Kelly Bevan, senior Jeanne Cutrone, and senior Amy O'Neill are four of the five qualifiers with senior Anne Glicksman qualifying in the 200 backstroke. Meanwhile, the men's swim team at Union College had its best showing ever at the New York State meet when it fmished third last weekend. Junior diver Dave Robison will be making his second consecutive trip to the NCAA meet the weekend of March 19 while sophomore Bill Humphreys qualified for the first time. For ~hese achievements they have all been named Concordiensis Sports Athletes of the Week. Benker also .qualified for the 100 and 200 backstroke with Bevan qualifying for the 200 breaststroke. The 200 free relay team of Benker, Glicksman, Bevan, and O'Neill qualified in a time trial race held prior to the state meet competition. It marks the third consecutive year that O'Neill and Cutrone have qualified for the nationals, the second straight year that Benker and Bevan have qualified, and the third time in four years that Glicksman has gone to the national meet. Robison surpassed the NCAA min·imum to qualify in the 11 dives, one meter event with a school record 457.90 points. Humphreys, meanwhile, finished fourth in the state meet with a 51.93 in the 100 butterfly. also a Union College standard. The Union College sports community should realize the magnitude of these achievements. We at the Concordiensis Sports are trying to help this become a reality. Once again congratulations to these swimmers on being named Concordiensis Sports Athletes of the Week. Lady Tracksters Propel Into Postseason by Tasha LaBare Concordiensis Staff Lat weekend, the Lady Dutchmen traveled to sunny Connecticut to run down a few Div. I schools. To start off the weekend, our amazing Alix threw with all her heart. In her first event, the shot put, Alix lofted a great throw of 37 1/2 ft. This amazing throw granted Alix a 2nd place finish. Next for Alix was the weight throw. She once again heaved the weight a great 36' 2 1/2\ for a third place finish overall. Moving on to the track, we see Nadine in the 55 HH. Nadine ran a quick time of 9.74. Next we see Denise. D. was amazing in her trial as she flew into the final heat. Once there, D. sprinted to a 6th place finish with an incredible time of 7.7. Tasha and Denise both took to the track in the 200m dash. Running alongside one another~ tne women were impressive as they crossed the line 1 (Denise) and 2 (Tash) with times of 28.0 and 28.9 respectively. Next for the Gabby Girls was Rika in the 800m dash. Rika ran a great 800 with a blistering time of 2:28, placing her 6th overall. Nadine once again bounced onto the track in the 500m dash. This time, Nadine ran an awesome time of 1:28, this was a PR for our little Nadine. Nice Job! To round out the weekend, Rika and Tasha breezed by their competitors in the 400m dash. Both women ran a strong race finishing with times of 62.34 (Tasha) and 62.65 (Rika). The girls used CTCs to get ready for the all important State meet. You guessed it folks, a run down of the State meet! This year, States were held at Hobart William Smith. Even though their numbers were small (4), the ladies still held their ground. Nadine led off the Lady Tracksters with a great 55 HH ~upport <llinion ~port~ semi, placing 3rd in her heat. Union went all out in the 55m dash. All three runners took to the blocks with Nadine running a 8.23, Tasha running 8.0, and Rika running 7.9. Go Girls! Alix once again dominated the field in both the shot and weight events. This time, Alix impressively threw the shot to a 2nd place finish overall. She then got her momentum going in the weight throw to toss it to a 4th place finish overall. Thank God for field events! Rika and Tasha both dared to tackle the 400m dash at States. They both fared well in their trial heat. Rika ran a 1:01 and Tasha a 1:02. Moving into the semi round, both women raced well. Rika came back with another 1:01 and Tashaanother 1:02 (at least we're consistent). Going on and placing 2nd in the State was Rika with another quick time of 1:01.21. Nice job girls, let's kick some butt at ECAC's this weekend! • • • • ' • ' -~ ' ' ' • • '· ~ ' • • ' • • • • • ' • ' • • •• '¥ ' chach alk by John Schachnovsky Associate Sports Editor This is the last issue of Concordiensis for this term. 11hat, unfortunately, means that it is also the last Schach Talk for the winter term. I , personally don't know what you as readers are going to do without my articles for the next few weeks, hut I'm sure you will survive. For the time being, I will leave you with some ideas and questions that might stir enough thought to last through the vacation . . . if d . . ' not ... rea 1t agam. -- Why do so many feminists pep up during the time of the swimsuit issues of the national sports magazines? If they have such a problem with them ... DON'T BUY THE MAGAZINE!! -- Does any one player deserve the contract Ryne Sandberg of the Chicago Cubs received ... I think not ($14,660.49 per hour for an average three-hour game for four years). -- By the time we get back from spring break, we will be in the heat of March Madness, so far Mississippi Valley State and Princeton are the two teams already in the tournament. What was that Andy Warhol quote again ... something about 15 minutes of fame or something . .. well ... enjoy it you guys. -· It is disgusting that the Quebec Nordiques have no wins on the road since last season ... howe-ver it is more disgusting that they are only seven wins out of a play-off spot. Way to go 1Milalers. -- The top 5 teams in the USA Today/CNN NCAA basketball poll have 18 losses between them. -- Have you enr wondered if UNL V's probleiils arc just one big public relati<>ns move by the city of Las Vegas to get some free publicity? -- The Clas~ IliA High School Girls Basketball Championship ill Arizona drew 10,588 fans. Tbe final hockey game of Unio11' s inaugural Division season was nowhcr:e near capacity fill-ed ... everyone was probably at the basketball . h? game, ng t. --What if Louis Gossett Jr., who was drafted @Ut of college, had decided to play basketball for the Knicks instead of entering in a career in acting. -- Final scme ef two high school basket])a]:J teams in New York: 4-2!! That's it! Have a good spring break, and don•t forget these important dates in sports over the next few weds: March 15 NCAA Tournament Cooomittce makes their selections March 19 NCAA Tournament struts -March 24-29 World Figure Skating Championships - April 6 MLB Opening Day

Men's Swimming Finishes Best Season In Union History by Andrew Wagshul Concordiensis Staff To paraphrase a line by Harry Doyle in the movie Major League, \In case anyone has noticed, and judging by the attend3nce you haven't, the Union Men's swimming team has quickly become one of the best in the state.\ In the four years that I have. been here, Union has gone from fifteenth in the state championships to third this year with just fifty points separating us from first. In this meet fifty points can be found in just a few events. However, judging from past experience this will probably go unnoticed by most of the college community. Since swimming isn't a high profile sport people here tend not to pay much attention to it. I'm not saying that the other teams here at Union don't deserve the attention they get, but when a team like this makes a turn around as we have in such a short time, it is time for people to take notice, for Union swimming has started a tradition of winning that will continue well on into the future. T:his weekend's meet began with the idea that the championship was up for grabs, but everyone knew Hartwick was the team to beat now that Division 1 Buffalo was gone. Surprisingly enough, the meet was much more competitive in each event, as well as, in total team scores. In fact, the top five teams changed positions almost daily. Hamilton surprised everyone by jumping out to an early lead on the frrst day, as Union was second and Hartwick third. At the end of the second day, Hartwick had moved into first as Union fell to fourth. Hamilton to second, and Alfred moved into thiri(L On the third and final da-y, Hartwick proved too strong ~s they controlled first, Hamilton remained in second just twenty- three points ahead of Unio11~ while Alfred finished in a distant fourth. Had a few thin~s gone our way, Union cou]d have reaiistically won this meet. However, hindsigilt makes things much easie:r. This finish, which is our b(';St ever, gives Union something to shoot for in the comiqg years. The entire team deserves credit for our great finish. We worked hard as a team, won and lost as a team, and kept each other up in tough times. Tllere were· m-any outstanding performances by a large number of the members, almost :teo many to mention. Some of them were Dave Robison's two second place finishes in 1 and 3 meter diving, both of which were strong enough to qualify him for nati()nals for the second straight year, while BDl Humphreys qualified for nationals in .the 100 butterfly as he finished in the top four in the 10() and 200 butterfly. Fres·hrnan ·sensation Sc<>tt Continued on page 18 <!rnnntrbirnsis MAHCH 5 1992 Skating Dutchmen Survive D-1 Bill Railton Collects 1 OOth Carrer Point by Dan Strum Sports Editor Union's inaugrural season in the ECAC Division I ranks has finall)l come to a close. For the past few months, the Skating Dutchmen have been trying to prove to the league, to the fans, and most importantly to themselves that they deserve the chance that they have been given. In this final weekend, Union managed to give their fans a taste of what is to come. In arguably one of the most exciting games ever to be played in Union history, the Skati11g Dutchmen took Yale to overtime for the second time this season. In heartbreaking fashion, Yale coldly tied the score with nine seconds left in regulation thus terminating Union's chances for a storyiJook ending in this, their first season. For fifteen seconds after the goal the arena was dead silent. People were staring blankly into space with a voice inside their head screaming \NO! This isn't happening!\. Play resumed after what had seemed to be an eternity and the game was sent into overtime. Yale built on their momentum and scored one minute into overtime to take a 5-4 victory right from the hearts of the Union Hockey community. Although the efforts of many individuals did not translate into the win column, many players have a lot to be proud about for their efforts not only in this game. but throughout the season as a whole. Saturday night was Senior Appreciation Night at Achilles rink. Before the game, eight seniors were recognized in honor of their fine careers here at Union. The seniors honored were Craig Ferrero, Bill Railton, Dalton Menhall, Rick Clifford, Scott Whitney, Tim Cregan, Rick Burchill, and Shayne White. This senior corps played a tremendous part in forging this new Union FINAL EC~C LEAGUE STANDINGS ~eam W-L-T P~S GF GA OVERALL Harvard 13-3-6 32 90 59 14-6-6 St.Lawrence* 15-6-1 31 104 66 19-9-2 Clarkson 15-6-l 31 101 63 21-8-1 ~ale 11-4-7 29 103 90 13-6-7 cornell# 10-8-4 24 70 59 12-10-4 Brown 10-8-4 24 93 86 10-15-4 Vermont 10-9-3 23 78 74 16-11-3 Colgate 11-11-0 22 105 lOB 14-15-1 Princeton 9-12-1 19 85 92 11-13-1 Rensselaer 6-12-4 16 70 89 12-14-4 Dartmouth 3-17-2 B 60 116 3-21-2 Union 2-19-1 5 61 118 3-2J:-l >~< St.Lawrence is seeckd #2 by virtue of a 2-0 record vs. Clarkson II Cornell is seeded 115 by virtue of a J..().J record vs. BrowtJ. hockey tradition. In addition to being leaders on the team with their experience, the senior class was responsible for the majority of the scoring punch this season. Seven out of the nine leading scorers were seniors, with the eighth senior being goaltender Shayne white. Jayson Flowers and Freshman Chris Albert were the only two non-seniors to break into the double digit scoring column. As for the game. Yale managed to jump out to an early 2-0 lead. White was making his first appearance in goal this season and he needed some time to shake his nerves. After these two quick goals, White settled in nicely and managed to keep Union in the game in many key situations. The whole crowd was rooting for him. Chants of \Shaaayne- 0, Shaaayne-0\ would periodically fill the arena. Union cut Yale's lead to 2-1 midway through the first period on a goal by Menhall. After the goal the crowd erupted; partially because Union got on the scoreboard, but more importantly that Bill Railton had just notched his lOOth career point with his beautiful assist to a well positioned Menhall. As fast as he jammed the puck into the back of the net, Menhall then scooped up the puck to preserve this piece of history. Midway through the second period Ferrero scored his team- leading 15th goal to tie the score t 2-2. After the Bulldogs pulled ahead for a second time, the Dutchmen were right there to counter with a goal of their Continued on page 18 Dutchwomen Cagers Finish With Best Record 'Since 1979 The Union College womcen~s basketball team finished the 1991-92 campaign with its best record since the season of 1978-79. This year's 12.-11 record marked the first tiime since the 1983-84 sea:son (when the team was 10~ 7) Tthat Union has had a winning rec()rd while the 12 wins are surpasS«! only by the 13-10 team of 1978-79. \We've come a long way,\ said second-year head cOta<:h Joanne Little, whose c:lub finished with a 9-15 mark a year ago. \There is still a bt of work to be done, but this year's team accomplished a lot. We had our best season in 13 years and we missed qualifying for the New York Slt!lte Tournament by just 1wo games. \I felt we closed the I!BP, both talent-wise and in the manner in which we play the game, against some of the stronger opponents on our schedule. We were competitive against a very good schellu1e and we had a winning recooo on the road. Ali-in-all, I'd say we have a lot to be proud of this season.\ The Dutchwomen 'Will graduate five seniors, inclutding two starters. Forward RruNn Romer ends an outstanding four-year career in which .she set college marks for grumes played (91), career p()ints {1,738-an average of 19.1), career rebounds (93 8-an average of 10.2), single-g-ame points (34-three tiillles including this year) a.nd rebounds (22-this year), 1111d single-season poi!lts {512-·. as a junior) and rebounds (271'!.- thi$ year). Romer, a two-year captain, also had 230 career steals. \Replacing Robin certainly will be difficult\ said Little. \She bas been a force on this club for tbe last four years. :But Robin won't be the only diffictJlt one to replace. Our senior class provided outstanding leadersh..ip, dedication, and direction to what I consider to be a v-ery young team. All of cur graduating players should be proud of what they accomplished, not only th.is year, but throughout their careers. Two-year captain Jean Lopata has been a steady perronmerthroughouthercrureer and finishes with a 5.3 sccring average while playing in 87 games. 011ly a knee injury which. kept her out of four games last season kept Lopata from equalling Rorner's standard for durability. Lopata, who is also a four-year letterv:inner for the field hockey team and will pursue her fourth letter in softball this spring, graduates with. 476 points and408 rebounds. Guard Jen Hiltparticipa.ted in 90 games during her career, scoring 254 points with 161 rebounds. Forward Kate Alquist returned from a term abroad in Greece last winter to conttibute leadership and bench strength to this year's squad. Alquist, a three-year letterwinner, scored 124 points with 99 rebounds and 41 assists in 59 ga.mes during her career. Forward Wendy Getty, who did not :play during Iter sophomore Continued on page 18 .i

