·' I 'f, , r : 1 ; } ' \ lj \i I' I ~ i ; l $'. ('~ . ~· <,~<fTAf:&i · ~· Founded at union College 1877 ' .. ' ' ~ . ~ ' . - . . . ' . . ' . ·_ - - . . . : . ' ·,- ' . . . . . . ' . ' VOLUME CXXL NUMBER 8 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK JANUARY 16, 1992 by Steven Carr Editor-/ n-C hief Early this week Dean Fred Alford, Assistant Dean of Students, confirmed the widespread rumors that WRUC's programming manager, Matt Fuller, had been brought before the Student Conduct Committee on charges. The programming manager had been charged with violating Student Conduct Code Section 5, which is \theft of personal or college property.\ Last term, after finding proof of considerable wrongdoings by the person in question, WRUC's executive board notified Dean Alford and the executive board of Student Forum. It was decided that conduct charges would be filed. The entire situation, which actually began last year, was unearthed towards the end of Fall term. While looking over the radio station's financial reports, WRUC's business manager, Matt Tucker, noticed that several pieces of equipment had been purchased over the summer by the programming manager. However, the whereabouts of the equipment, which included a tape deck, an amplifier. and a compact disk player, were unknown. When asked about the equipment, the programming manager produced the equipment and claimed that the new amplifier had been installed. After further investigation, another WRUC board member, Aaron Ambrosino, realized that the amplifier that had beer. installed \o\'as approximately $600 chcaiJcr than the actual one that had been bought. After being q11e.stioned, Fuller admitted th.at he had bought the cheaper amplifier with his own The Prl()egramming Manager had been charged with violatiDg Student Conduet Code Sectioii 5 ... money and installed it, and that he had kept the more expensive one for himself. Following this revelation, VVRUC's executive board decided that the programming manager would pay back the money and. would then resign. However, it was soon uncovered that the student had used similar tactics with other new equip111ent. Apparently, he had purcha:.sed and kept a new compact disk player and tape player whiLe giving VVRUC his own used e(juipment. However. after additional pressure, it was uncovered ll:llat over the course of last yea:r the programming manager h~d purchased other products for WRUC and kept them for his own use. These pieces of e(.Juipment included a digital audio tape machine, a laser disk player, and speakers. The last J)iece of the puzzle was uncovered when a purchase order for a fictitious piece of equipment was found. The programming manager had • ramm1n attained a check for a product which did not exist. He then proceeded to usc the check to plll'chase more equipment for himself, including more spea]cers and other instruments. After uncovering the enormi.ty of the crimes committed by the student, WRUC consulted with the deans ~nd decided to file conduct charges. According to Seth Ellis, chair of the 5tudent Conduct Committee, the former WRUC lloard member pleaded guilty t() the charges. The Conduct Committee then decide<l <>n the recommendation of punisnment it would present to Joseph Marnmola, Dean of Stude.nts. Mammola. who generally follows the recommendations of the I committee, decided that the studrnt would he scp:.uated from the school. WRUC was unwilling to discuss the actual amount of money that had been misused. However, a rough estimate would approach six thousand dollars. In addition to the student's expulsion from Union, he also agreed to repay the full amount and did so on Monday, January 13. \I feel terrible about the situation,\ says one board member of WRUC. \I don't think either WRUC or student activities is at fault for this occurrence. If we are guilty of anything, it is being too trustworthy.\ In a somewhat unrelated situation, Lee Bloomrosen, l Dircclor of S tudcnt Activ itics, r~port~J that Lhl· ~ompuh:riL.atiun of Lhc StuJl:lll Activities' finances is complete. The phasing in of computers, which has been going on over the past several years, will prevent similar situations from developing in the future. Now that the system is complete, Finance Representatives and anyone else interested can keep close tabs on the spending of each dub. The system will keep track of how much money has been approved to be spent, even if invoices have not yet been returned. In this way, the actual amount of money used by each club will be available, not only the amount already paid by Student Activities. On The News Front ••• Beta Loses Charter Beta Theta Pi is cmently in the pr1>cess of appealing a decision by their national organization which has recently revo.ked llle fraternity's charter. Apparently the members of Beta Theta Pi had misinformed their 11ational as to tile real reasons why they lost their carnplls hcusing privileges last year. Beta Theta Pi was evicted during the Spring term of 1991 followi11g a declaration by the Union C()llege Administration and Schenectady officials that Maxcy House was unfit for occupation. The building was bordered up for safety reasons after the fraternity inflicted further damage on the building. Having been evicted, the officers of the fraternity conveyed to their national, fallacies concerning their loss of housing. Beta Theta Pi's national has become aware of the cover up and has thus responded. Beta Theta Pi's president, Matt Schmitter, refused to comment on the situation. The Concord~ iensis news desk is currently investigating the story through further interviews with the Dean's of Students office, Beta Theta Pi, and the fraternity's national organization. The fraternity's future on the Inter- Fraternity Council is in question. In This Issue: Students Respond to Gmelch Report -page 3 \Just Stare\ -page 8 l.Jnion Hockey Ties Yale 5-5 -page 20 I I I I I I l j ,I

Bicentennial Union Students, Lecture Series F acuity To \Mentor\ In Schenectady School Classrooms Continues by William Zwicker Contributing Writer Courtesy of Union College Public Relations Dinesh D'Souza, author of flliberal education: The Politics of Race and Sex on Campus, will speak on \The Politics of Race and Sex on Campus\ at 8 p.m. on Tuesday, Jan. 28, in Memorial Chapel at Union College as the second lecture in the College's 1991-92 Bicentennial series. In his free public talk, D'Souza will explain why he feels free speech, free inquiry and academic quality are under assault on many campuses. \Instead of liberal education, what American students are getting is its diametrical opposite, an education in closed-mindedness and intoler- ance,\ he says in a Chronicle of Higher Education interview. One premise of D'Souza's 1991 best seller \and of his lectures is that preferential admission policies for minorities weaken educational standards and foster separatism and racial tensions on campus. He also says that in the name COUNTY CHAMBER OF COMMERCE ZOLLER ELEMEN'!\ ARY SCHOOL UNION COLLEGE COMPASS PROGRAM MENTOR APPLICATION FORM FOR UNION COLLEGE STUDENTS. of women, minont1es and mtdticulturalism, curriculum is fr• ~uently being twisted to advance ideological agendas and only so-called politically correct speech is being permitted. The New York Times Book Review, Washington Post, Wall Street Journal, Time, The Atlantic and The New Yorker, A Business Week reviewer called the work \an indis- pensable book for anyone interested in the future of U.S. higher education\ and termed it \meticulously evenhanded.\ A new program th·at will place Union College faculty and students into classrooms, grades 2-5, at Zoller Elemen- tary School, located a few blocks from campus has been instituted. Volunteers will spend about one hour per week (except for the week before finals) working one,on-one, in small groups, or with the entire class. Like Alan Bloom's 1987 book, The Closing of the Am-erican Mind, D'Souza's book has stirred debate in higher education circles. The bo<>k has been reviewed in major publications, including D'Souza is a research fellow at the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research, a conservative think- tank in Washington, D.C. The Union-Zoller effort is the latest expansion of the Compass Program, originally started by General Electric's Elfun Society. G.B. put scientists, mathematicians, and engineers into some of Schenectady's schools, in order to help teachers build interest in science by providing some real enthusiasts. Mentors serve, in part, as role models - examples that show kids that science and technology can be a source of excitement to adults, and can lead to careers that are stimulating and enjoyable. Activities range from enrichment work done with small groups of talented students, to one-on-one tutor- ing for students who are Dinesh D'Souza In 1987-88, D'Souza was senior domestic policy analyst at the White House. Before that, he was managing editor of Policy Review, a publication of the Heritage Foundation. His articles on culture and politics have appyared in such publications as Forbes, New Republic, The Atlantic, Harper's, The New York Times, and others. A native of Bombay, India, D'Souza graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Dartmouth College in 1983, where he was editor of The Dartmouth Review. NAME: __________________ CAMPUS PHONE:. _____ _ BOX N0:·----==-==\:='7':c=':'=\\'===------ HOMEPHONE: _____ _ (OR OFF-cAMPUS ADDRESS) REFERENCE: (A UNION PRO.\'\F=-.-=-=y,=o,...,.u-=-=K::-::NO=w~w-=E\\'LL:-:) MAJOR: _______ OTHER SUBJECTS YOU\D LIKE TO MENTOR IN:. ______ _ WHY DO YOU WISH TO BE A MENTOR?------------------- PLEASE NOTE ANY SPECIAL SKILLS, I;XPI;:RIENCE, OR El'JTHUSIASMS THAf MIGHT BE RELEVANT: _______________ _ ARE YOU INTERESTED IN BOTH ENRICHMENT AND I REMEDIAl. MENTORING, OR DO YOU HAVE I STRONG PREFERENCE FOR ONE OF THESE? I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I OOVOU HAVE ANY STRONG PREFERENCES FOR WORKING 1.0N·1., WITH SMALL GROUPS, ___ ....._...._~ ____ __, __ _.._....,.._--~ OR WJTH 11-iE WHolE CLASS ? · • ·· • . ' ANY STRONG PREFERENCE FOE! GRADE LEVEL? ---------------- {OAADES 2 ~ 5) WILL VOU BE ON CAMPUS FOR SPRING TERM 1 -----\\\\\':'. .,.........._.,.... OOYOUHAVEACCESSTOACAR? __ ~-----~------------------------- CAN YOU MAKE THE ORIENTATION ON WED., FEB 5, AT 4:15? .-,----------- Ar>DITIONAL COMMENTS:--------------------------- DO IT! BY VOLUNTEERING, YOU ARE AGREEING TO AmND A TRAINING SESSION, AND TO MENTOR FOR ONE HOUR PER WEEK, THROUGH THE NINlH WEEK OF WINTER AND SPRING lERMS (IF ON CAMPUS). WATCH A CHILD'S FACE LIGHT UP BECAUSE OF YOUR EFFORTS ... IT'S ADDICTIVE, AND LEGAL. DUE FRIDAY. JAN. 24 ·DROP OFF OR SEND TOW. ZWICKER, MATH DEPT., BAILEY HALL ~truggHng with an idea, to whole-class demonstrations, etc. :Part of the strength of the , program has been the freedom for classroom teachers and mentors to try some of their own ideas out. Others at G.E., hearing about how well the program was working, have been volunteering in growing numbers. In 1991, Compass was switched over to the Schenectady Cmmty Chamber of Commerce because the progmm was growing beyond G .E. At that time, the Lawrence Corporation, an international insurance com- pany with offices in Schenectady, \adopted\ Van Corlaer Elementary School, G.B.'s involvement grew to five schools, and discussions began with other organizations, including Union. A panel consisting of Karl De Jesus (Chemistry), Janet McDonald (Educational Studies), Kenneth Schick (Physics), George Shaw (Geology), Linda Stanhope (Psychology), Patricia Tappa (Assistant to President Hull), Peter Tobiessen (Biology), and William Zwicker (Mathe- matics) has been working with Margaret Lassiter, the vice president of the Chamber. \The Chamber is extremely pleased to welcome Union to the Compass program. As part of our expansion, you will add new resources and a different perspective,\ said Lassiter recently. \Our teachers are intrigued by the possibilities,\ added Robert Ceglersky, Principal of Zoller, \and every teacher has asked for a mentor. We very much l()Qlc forward to working with Union students and faculty.\ Suzanne Lenss, parent coordinator of the Union~Zoller program, was trained as a chemist and is the mother of two Z()ller students. She had been looking for ways to put more · science into the elementary school classroom, · and had already run ·some microscope demonstrations that g~~rated a l9t ~f enthll$iasm. \I think it~s,great· that Uniort is coming to Zoller,\ said Mrs. Lenss, :\'this is just the right age ... the kids ate ready to get excite<l~ According to ·Janet McD<>nald, Union's Director of Educational Studies, Mrs. · Lenss. is correct; educational ieseat'Cil suggests that most attitudes towards mathematics and science are set, positively or negatively, in late elementary school. Dr. McDonald suggested an additional advantage for Union students: \If you think that teaching is a possibility as a career, then the Compass program is a good way to test the waters. Actually, I'd guess Cc,ntinued on page 3 i l

I ) • I l 1. \ . 1 ~~ il 'I .1: . ORDIENSIS • JANUARY 16, 1992 • PAGE Student Foru111 Survey Produces Interesting Results Role Models Needed For Sch·enectady Schools Continued from page 2 that the experience will hook some Union students who had never considered teaching before.\ by Mary Levinsohn, Lee fC)pper, Blaine Langberg Contributing Writers Last term, the Student Forum administered the Residence Life Survey to gauge students' responses to the Gmelch Report for the improvement of residence life. This survey was an attempt not only to attain student input, but to make them aware of the various changes which may occur in Union's student housing in the future. The following are the results of the survey. In total. 421 students responded to the survey; this is approximately 20% of the campus. The respondents included: Seniors (27.7%), Juniors (26.2%), Sophomores (25.7%), Freshmen (19 .4%), Missing (2.0%), Males (44.8%), Females (55.2), Greek(43.5%), Independent (56.5% ). Living in Cl}·ed housing (41.1% ), Living in single sex housing (42.5%), Living off campus (15.2%), Missing (1.2%). There were some interesting findings when examining what specific groups of students felt There was a strong trend ior students as they increase.{!: in class year to be less in favor of co-ed housing. While alruaost half of the Freshmen advGc:ated co-ed housing (48.8%) ()nly 11.1% of the Seniors were in favor of this policy. A l!Uger percentage of Greeks were opposed to co-ed housiJJg (66.5%) than Independents (52.1%). All classes were strongly in favor of having kite hen facilities in the darns, particularly the Freshmen class (80.5%) and IndependciJ.ts (78.6%). People living in co-.00 dorms were the strong~s t advocates of having t!J.c se facilities (82.0%). The strongest proponents f()f social lounges were the Freshmen class (73.0%) with a steady decline in support ~,ltll an increase in class yea.r, Seniors (55~0%). Every livi11g arrangement, especially the <CO- A majority of students •.• thought that certain on .. campu:s housing was superior to others~ about certain issues. ed housing (71. 7%) fel1 In general, students rated strongly in need of a sociaJ t11emselves as being moderately lounge. Also, m o;re content in terms of their Independents (70.2%) tham present housing accommoda- Greeks (59.2%) wanted sucbaJI tions. Specifically, Seniors area. were the most content (72.6%) AU classes were strong]y· wbile the Sophom()res were the opposed to having a live-jilt least content (61.2%). There Director in the dorms. This: was no significant difference was equally contested by mell,. between males and females. women, Greeks an!l The Greeks rated themselves as Independents. being only marginally more Freshmen made up the content with their living largest percentage of studertt; accommodations (69.4%) than who thought that the same:: theindependents (68.8%). rules should apply to all Oil- When questioned if the campus housing (58.2~ } . college housing policy Regarding this issue, 44% of discri~inated against Indepen- ·Greeks versus 59.1% of dents, 60% of Independents felt Independents thought all on• little pr no discrimination campus housing should abi<le whill only l9% of by the same rules. · Independents felt strongly A majority of students, discriminated against regardless of class year, gende•,, In terms of WC)rnen, most housing accommodations aMI' , people in all classes felt that · Greek/Independent thought tbat women were not <liscrimipated · . certain on-campus housing wa:s against in terms of college ·superior to others. 'ho'using polic;y. Specifically:, · There was a strong trend fD't women felt more discrimina- ·students to be less in favor o-f tion (11.7%) than males felt · ·the Gmelch recommendation:s women were di:~criminated as they increased in class year; against (1.2%). Both Greeks Freshmen (59.7%), Sopho- and Independents equally felt mores { 44.3% ), Juniors that ·women were not (31.2%), and Seniors (29.1%}. discriminated against~ at Students living in co-ed (81.7%) (77.8%), respectively. housing were the most in favol' of the recommendations (51.0%) while only 32.0% of people living in single-sex housing were proponents. The Independents were 48.0% in favor of the recommendations while 29.0% of the Greeks were advocates. The evaluators took a second step and read the individual comments that each student made pertaining to the actuaL In general, all students were in favor of a college mission statement. recommendations. The follow- ing are the results of the written comments. In general, all students were in favor of a college mission statement. In terms of the actual dorms, people favorably advocated an upgrade of the dorms, increased cleanliness of the dorms, more common space, and a specific review system of the housing policy. Most students were strongly opposed to having a live-in director. Students were equally in favor of the school building Townhouses, especially the older students (Seniors 84.4%). All students equally felt that there should be at least some en 1- a: 0 D. w a= 1- . z w c - 0 z - DATE 1/04/92 1 /05/92 1/05/92 1/07/92 1/07/92 1/07/92 1(07/92 1/09/92 1/10/92 1111/92 1/11/92 1111/92 1112/92 1/1 2/92 1/1 2/92 1/12/92 1{1 2/92 1L) 2/92 1/1 2/92 opportunity on campus for single sex housing. However, the Freshmen class was the most in favor of co-ed housing (77.8%) while the Sophomore class was the least (41.7%). Males were only 40.9% in favor of co-ed housing while 64.0% of females felt this way. In general, there was strong opposition to having the same rules applied to all campus housing. The Greeks (72.1 %) and the males (71.4%) were the most outspoken on this issue. Most students were in favor of allowing Greeks to apply for and live in campus housing. A vast majority of all students were strongly opposed to making Greeks have non-Greek members live in and eat with their house. These survey results are currently under review by a group of students, faculty and administration in an effort to address the needs of the students as reflected in this survey. We would like to thank the student body for their participation and input. We would also like to thank Professor A. Merchant-Shapiro and Professor Sargeant for their help in the computer evaluation process. If students would like to know specific information regarding issues covered in the survey, please contact Mary Lcvinsohn, Box 1020. LOCATION INCIDENT The Union-ZoHer program will begin with a short mentor orientation program, tentative~ Iy set for Wednesday, February 5. Selected faulty and student volunteers will be formed into teams, each consisting of one professor and several students, with one team assigned to each Zoller teacher. If you are enthusiastic about science, mathematics, or engineering and would like to make a .real difference by passing that enthusi:.1sm on to someone else, you can either call Professor Zwicker (X6160) for more informurion, or fill out the form in this issue of Concordiensis. Either drop the form off at the Mathematics Department, or send it via campus mail to W. Zwicker, Mathematics, Bailey Hall, by Friday, January 24. Faculty should calL C oncordie nsis is currently taking applications for news staff positions. For more information call 370-6155 South College vandalism-room door kicked in Fox entrance Lock core mjssjog. West College Theft-stereo egujpment- from two students-taken oyer the winter break. Eraternjty Vandalism-water yalye. West and Fox Vandalism-light posts pushed down. Qayjdsoo Theft-telephone from room. Qayjdson VandalisOJ-smoke detector. Bailey Fjeld Vanga!jsm-!jght posts pushed down . Assault-Harassment of student by· former student. fox Lot Vandalism to student vehicle. Alumni Gym nespassC'peepjng tom\ women's locker room shower, Fraternity Harassment Qf student. SOT IQt. VandaljsrtJ-Student's car- rear window smashed, Qujet Road Vanda!jsm-YjsitQr's car- pajot scratched and tire QUt. Ql!tch Hollow Attempted theft of food items. Raymond lot vandalism-Student's c;ar- window sma§hed. Davidson Failure to evacuate for fire ala,rrn. Fox entranQe Ya.ndalism-brok~n wioQ.Q.W North. College Annoyance telephon~ calls,

1991: The Year War Broke Out by Jim Polites Associate News Editor 1991. It was a year of .scandal, · sadness, court hearings, war, . and unprecedented nationalism. ' The personalities that garnered : most attention are now household names and topics of · conversation as all · contributed in his/her own . unique way to the events of an , ever-changing America. 1991 pitted Supr;eme Court : Justice Clarence Thomas : versus Anita Hill, saw William Kennedy Smith on trial as an : accused rapist, and will forever • be remembered as the year · Magic Johnson learned he had tested HIV -positive, tragically ending a brilliant basketball career. Though all of these stories warrant an exhaustive look back, 1991 was without question a time of war pitting the United States against Iraq and Saddam Hussein. While the aforementioned court cases and public proclamations were worthy of headlines, it was the Persian Gulf conflict that evoked universal interest, .intrigue, and emotion. Doubtless, it was a situation that left no one trnaffected. The Iraqi invasion of Kuwait City on August 2, 1990 kicked off an incredible sequence of events. This day will live in infamy, for it was the blind aggression of a horrifying dictator that ushered in global alann and discord. At the halfway point of George Bush's Presidential tenn, his ra:lly cry of 'peace and prosperity' was crumbling-and all other foreign policy accomplishments were dwarfed by U.S. intervention in the crisis. Saddam was making his boisterous pitch to join the world's elite powers, and it would take a collective, concerted effort by the , opposition to quell his quest. Recalling that frantic period- from military build-up to battle· almost exactly one year ago- one thought comes to mind: what a difference a year makes. Today, Saddam is a battered, embittered leader whose foundation of supremacy is fragile at very best. He forged into Kuwaiti lands knowing full well that the world over would frown on his maniacal actions, yet he persisted in the crusade of iatri e by Aram Fuchs Staff Writer The bullet going through Kennedy's head. The brave democrat standing up to a tmk in Tienamen Square. MLK in front of the Lincoln Monu- ment. A hippie naif putting a flower in a national guardsman's rifle. In this day of instantaneous electroll_ic media, images have an amazing power to influence our political process. They help define issues of the day and at times whole eras. We now have another. George Bush, conqueror of e Panama, defender of freedom in the monarchy of Kuwait, the education and the environmental president, was caught vomiting underneath a dais as the Japanese Prime Minister cradled his sickened skull in his two strong hands. What a silly failure, Bush's trip to Japan has become. Could there have been anything less symbolic than that embarrassing photograph that was seen in a billion living rooms across the globe? There is a new joke going around, Did you hear what the next Japanese import is? People, they even make those better now. Underlying the humor in this joke is a sense of defeatism. We Americans have FRIDAY NIGHT DINNER KOSHER KITCHEN All WELCOME! 6:·00 pm attaining an oil monopoly that would bring him unprecedented bargaining leverage. We here in the United States realized that President Bush's early verbal threats of intolerance only foreshadowed events to come: U.N. sanctions, an overseas military build-up, and ultimately, warfare. With this progression of episodes, though, also loomed the nagging, restless fear of sending our troops to fight a · foreign battle. I, for one, found myself glued to news broadcasts and keenly aware of the front page headlines this crisis demanded. As the inevitable America vs. Iraq clash neared, there were marked and continued displays of respect, concern, and feeling shown here on the Union campus. I'll never forget the yellow and black pins that were distributed, while outdoor candlelight vigils, attended by both sympathizers and dissenters of our involvement, brought together a campus that is all too often polarized. On a wider scope, I'll always remember the most glorious spectacle in sports-the Super Bowl-being overcast by the rom been beaten at our own game: capitalism. But we Americans can not admit this. We have never been an introspective lot. The first thing we do is find a scapegoat. Drugs, it's all Panama's fault. In the economy it's aU the Japanese. It is un-American to think that we are actually being beaten. The usual myths the observer hears, ;'We are the best country in the world.\ \Freedom brings about prosperity.\ Not if you_ don't work. Democracy is a novelty no longer. We have no monopoly on free markets. We are not the sole supplier of products to an impoverished globe, as we were after World War II. We commencement ·of battle in the Gulf. When Whitney Houston finished singing a wonderful rendition of our national anthem, there wasn't divisive chants of \Go Giants\ or \Go-· Bills\ but rather a collective ringing of 'USA, USA'. I'll never forget the regal half time festivities of that contest. The flag of each branch of our · military was exhibited-a symbol of our country's solidarity and singular purpOse. Even more touching were the • young children who marched out - each with a yellow ribbon pinned on his/her chest, clutching a small replica of Old Glory. Every young member of the group represented a loved one fighting in the Persian Gulf from each state in the Union - a tremendous gesture of tribute. These kids were greeted with deafening cheers, appropriately louder than any in the game. They waved the flags and absorbed the adulation blindly. It was probably best that they didn't understand the full significance of their presence in Miami. Finally, I'll always remember the desparate chants of our society's alarmists: they claimed this was a war waged were able to exploit the lack of competition and now the competition has surpassed ur. The only way to beat it back is to work harder. The longer we do not realize this, the longer we will wallow in third place, behind Japan and Germany. At crisis times like these, we must look inside ourselves and see the flaw that is holding us back. Our country has never respected the value of education. In a· recent survey published in the wall Street J oumal it showed the average eighth grader watched television twice as much as he/she did homework. Two- thirds of the eighth graders reported that their parents never discussed their homework with them. Our country enjoys to be pacified, not challenged. Education is~ by definition, challenging. The television, the ultimate pacifier, has turned into the leading entertainer of children. It has become the devil cloaked in a cold, grey box. It inhibits the education of the youth. A13 we grow older our pacifiers. grow in variety. At Union College, it is viewed as strange to go out and drink beer less than three times a week. on unfamiliar soil - it will be another Vietnam. Yet the social response was overwhelmingly Sf.1pportive, at once uniting a nation by bridging the ia,herent gap associated with politcal ideologies. Our generation was treated to an effort that brought us all under the heading of Americans, an undertaking that was handled witll the utmost care and speed - one, I understand, much different from Vietnam. I'll be t)le first tG admit that my remembrance of the Middle East war is based on limited and hollow memories, facts and opinions that still today are guided by television propaganda and personal loyalty. If nothing else, though, this small period in the long history of the United States serves to prove tbat taking life itself for granted is a grave error. We should be thlankful, most of atl, tllat relative sanctity reigns once again. The years will always outlast the most turbulent events of our time. Appropriately, it'\s the memories and lessons learned that should ultimately linger. Americans are a social, gregarious bunch. That is our strength, but in excess it becomes a weakness. We are the future of this country. As we blow off our work, as we look for the easiest route out of our problems, we are destroying the very future we are here to realize. In the Technological Era education is not a pleasant option, it is an absolute necessity. The jobs of the Industrial Era have been replaced by macbines. The intellect is the most important human asset we bave left and we Americans are wasting it on an alcohol-induced, T.V.- pacified, haze of an existence. We are at a new era of history in which the American culture will not retain its dominance over the world. We fought the Cold War to spread freedom across tbe globe. In the fifties and sixties we were the fust ones to experience the good living of the industrial age, now countries have surpassed us. lt is time to rejoice, not cry. Democracy has won, now we Americans havt? to get to work Let this frightening image become an anomaly of our time and not symbolic of a crying, pathetic country. 'i

\ L 1i CONCORDIENSIS • JANUARY 16, 1992 • PAGE 5 .......___,._. I I l I I' I ' I ; I RUSII Thursday~ Jon. 16 6:30 pn PIZZA AND WINGS COLLEGE H'OOPS -Union vs Alfred Meet the Brothers of Si~ma Chi ONLY TWO HOURS TO SPRING BREAK. 1 $599. oo 1 Bermuda College Weeks • March 2-28 and April 6-18 • 7 nigh.ts, mrlland inclusive. Call (Jpper Union Travel at 518-346-7474. Or call Travel Turf at 1-800-222-4432. .... After you hit the books. it's time to hit the beach. Time jor a free boat party, a free mystery party, free beach parties, plus swimming, sports, mopeds and more. All less than two hours from the East Coast. Bermuda. So incredible, they named a triangle after it. Not to mention a style of shorts. B E R M u D A Packages available tllrOLI!lll tr\\\l agency_, listed above. ~s ba•ed on round-tnp purchase, midwea~ atr fares, for travel 11•17•91thrau!lh 3•8•92 Pnces are per perton. t>A!tl<l on quact ocwpanoy. Prrcas htgher tor wee•and travel and depar!Ures ~~~~ 3>8•92. Prices vary by wholesalor and may l>a IUbfed to Chlnge and avallabllfty. Tuu nat lrictuded BUY YOUR PARENTS A SUBSCRIPTION TO c 0 N c 0 R D I E N s I s ONLY $40 PER YEAR

Japanese Chemical Weapons In China At the end of the WWU, Japanese Imperial Army buried chemical weapons in China before they left. After almost fifty years, the containers had corroded and the chemicals leaked. killing and injuring severa I hundred peop l'e. Japanese media r~ported that the casualties were estimated to be around five hundred people. Most of the chemical weapons were buried nearby. Because the Japanese Emperor is to visit China this year, this incident embarrassed both Japan and CCP. It is said that because both Japan and CCP don't want to see things which might jeopardize tbe relationship between the two countries happen before the coming September, botb sides have agreed not to publicize this incident. Wu Jiende>ng, a Sino-Japan relation expert, said that Japan seemed to be quite afraid of this chemical weapons incident being the catalyst for China to ask Japan .to compensate China's loss dlliing WWII. Wu estimated that the Japan's invasion of China had caused China to lose about 600 billion U.S. dollar. Inside China, the pressure for asking for Japan to compensate is increasing. c/().World Journal 114!92 (lntemet) German University Exchange Every year Union can send at least one qualified student (not more than hNo next year) to spend his or her junior year at a German University .. as a substitute for the junior year at Union. REGARDLESS OF YOUR MAJOR, you may be eligible to be selected for this exchange, and spend next year at the university of Heidelberg, or Munich, or Berlin -or any of more than a dozen other locations. Now is the time to apply. For more information, see Professor Anton Warde, in the Terms Abroad Office, HU:~.ll, as soon as possible. Students who apply should have at least a beginning knowledge of German at this point. IENSIS • JANUARY 1 6 I 1992 • No Plans For Spring Break? How About Iran? Ten years after the revolution, Iran is slowly opening its doors to tourists. Mehdi Hashemi, President Rafsanjani's cousin and the v ic:,e-chairman of the Mostazafin foundation, told The Middle East: \President Rafsanjani wants to encourage tourists back to Iran. In the future, tourism could bring more foreign currency than oil.,, As chairman of Azadi International Tourism Organization (AlTO), Mehdi Hashemi controls most of Iran's luxury hotels which, like the former Hilton, now called the Azadi, were expropriated after the revolution and given to the Mostazafin foundation. He is currently in the process of contacting foreign travel agencies with the hope of attracting tourists and foreign currency. There are not many hard and fast regulations, adds the man who is in charge promoting tourism in Iran; the only real ones are that women must cover themselves, and the drinking of alcohol is forbidden. \But we have noticed tourists find it interesting to live a few days with us and to have a chance to familiarize themsel vcs with our civilization and our revolution.\ \Women must cover themselves. Drinking of alc91tol is forbidden.\ Ir:an offers many attractions to foreign tourists. Travel agencies are probably charging tourists for their room in US dollars, but since new exchange regulations were promulgated in January 1991,, it is now among the cheapest countries in the world for foreign visitors. At the official legal exchange rate, one doHar is worth about 1,400 rials - which means that dinner in an excellent Indian restaurant on the exclusive V ali Asr A venue, costs about tht:ee dollars per person and an airline ticket on internal routes can cost less than five dollars!. Excellent copies of Italian style shoes, mobile telepbones and caviar are real bargains. A tin of 200 grams of caviar costs less than $20, a fraction of its cost elsewhere in the world, - although exportation is forbidden. Usually tbe tours organized by travel ag(lncies include only a brief stop-over in Tehran. Tourists Sh()uld not lament. Besides its wonderful, and deserted museums and the bazaar, the capital does not warrant a long stay. It is still possible to e11joy a stroll along V ali Asr A venue, Mohseni Square and Roosevelt Street where most of Iran's fashionable shops are concentrated. In these chic passages, one could almost forget that this is Iran. Courtesy of Sasson Behzadi Locus C()mputing Corp, LA c/o Internet APPLICATION DEADLINE for UNION TERMS ABROAD • ts MONDAY FEBRUARYIO for all Summer and Fall Programs Information and applications in HU 211. YOUR GUIDE TO SPEAKING ENGLISH WHEN ABROAD AMERICAN AUSTRALIAN ENGLISll SCOTTISH WQRD PRQN!.IN~IATIQN PRON!lN~IATIQN PRQNJlN~IATIQN PRQNJlN~IA TIQN mandatory man-duh-TORY MAN-duh-tree man'-da-tory man-DA-tory inventory IN-vin-TORY fN-ven-tree in 'vent-ory in-VEN-tory duke DOOIC dyewk (u-umlaut sound) du'ke (as in nuke) DYOOK - new NOO nyew new (as in yew tree) NYOO due DOO dyew dew (as abo-ve) DYOO alumin(i)um uhloo-MINUM alu-MIN-ee-um al I • -umm-e\um alyoo-MIN-ium Leicestershire Ly-sester-shy-er lester-SHEER Less-ter-sh (Yup!) Les-ter-shy-er Gloucester ( .. just ~s bad .. ) GL08S-ter Gloss-ter Gloster positive P AAH-.za-tiv PO-zi-tiv POS..it-ive POZ-it-iv rotor ro(d)er ROW-tuh ro'-tor (also rota) rotor derogatory du-ROGGA- TORY duh-ROG-uh-tree de-rog'-a-tory de-ROG-a-tory

CQNCORDIENSIS • JANUARY 16, 1 ,Landslide Ethnic Conflict • Ill Russian Heartland by Lyudmila Leontyeva Courtesy of Moscow Ne.ws, #291 P.6, 7121-8!91 Today, no traces remain of the 29 June events in the town of Kashin, of the Tver Region. On that day a crowd of Russians rushed from Proletarskaya Square to lynch the \Blacks\, which is the local slang for the Caucasians. In the bloody fight that followed a young A var who was passing through Kashin was killed., and 13 people were wounded, mostly by firearms. The events .that jolted Kashin awake are over, but what were their causes? AU ens Aliens began arriving in the Tver Region about 20 years ago. Mostly, they came from areas lacking arable land in the Northern Caucasus - Daghestan and Chechen - Ingushetia - as seasonal workers on construction sites and cattle farms. Young people from Caucasian highlands came to be educated at local colleges. Many of them married local women or brought over families and settled here. In the last ten years, the Region's Caucasian population has . grown six-fold. According to the registry office, there are 2,000 immigrants from Checlien-Ingushetia, over 2,000 settlers from Daghestian, and over 5,000 from Transcaucasia. In reality, however, their number is believed to be .several times lat:ger, what with seasonal migration, tradesmen and numerous guests staying with their kinsmen. Caucasians are everywhere: at the marketplace, in hotels and restaurants; well-dressed, rolling in money, and setting exhorbitant prices for the vegetables and fruit they sell. Local people see them as speculators and millionaires. To the police, they represent the element responsible for the increase in crime in the Tver Region over the last three years. Indeed the events in Kashin were not isolated. The KGB officers in Tver showed me a dozen places on the Region's map where violent clashes between the local population and the Caucasians have occurred in recent months. Fortunately, there have been no deaths previously. The fights are generally provoked by the \aliens\ adding to their reputations as \speculators\ derogatory name for hooliganism. Back home the same young men are usually better-behaved, obedient to the tough laws of highland communities. According to the Union-wide criminal statistic's; Chechen- Ingushetia remains one of the safest places. Pretext On June 28, the only wine shop in the area was surrounded by a huge crowd from early Take A China Adventure Take a moment to consider changing your life. Why not take the term Abroad to China? All Terms Abroad, of course, change your scenery, and many will alter your sense of things, but the Term to China has been both an enlargement and transformation of the lives of a lot of the students who have taken it. It led James Sawyer, in following years, to post- graduate study in Taiwan and work with Chinese immigrants in Chicago; for Greg Angus, it led to a Watson Fellowship to study toys and child development in China. For many other students, their term to Nanjing became just the first of several later visits to China and the Orient, and emerging involvement in the economics, culture, and history of the Pacific rim. Besides the chance to find your Self by facing the completely Other, this is a rather unique last chance to be an historical witness upon a passing phase of human experience: China is among the last examples of the communist experiment. You can see for yourself classes emerging in what was to have been a classless society, the profit principle entering an economy that for some decades earlier was simply a system of distribution of goods, the yearning (Western) self being bom in the members of what was once called \Mao's army of blue ants.\ You can also move freely about China (the Chinese like Americans) and take .in the ruined glamour of one · of the greatest, most ancient of civilizations - 2,000 year old Buddhist mountain temples, the palaces of the Han, and the Wall meant to wall out the world and time. If you have questions about China or the Term Abroad, please see Professor Thomas in the Terms Abroad Office, or, perhaps better yet, talk to one of the students on campus who has taken this term - Noelle Marie Kinsch, Chris Miller, Julie Shanebrook, Anna Bess SOFin, and Katie Mulvaney. There will be an informational meeting about the Nanjing term Abroad on Wednesday, January 22 at 4:30 p.m. The deadline for applica- tions is February 10. morning. While people queued in scorching sun at the front door, salesmen served their regular customers out of tum at the back door. On that particular day there were especially many Caucasians among the privileged clientele. The queue lost patience and started fighting. The foLlowing day they came out for a pogrom ... The city authorities would much rather see the fight at the wine shop as :the cause. But the people of Kashin are quite used to queuing and to backdoor service. For six months now they have been living on bread coupons which guarantee nothing. They are told the town bakeries are short of flour. But municipal authorities have failed to appropriate the 100 tons of flour due to Kashin from the district granaries. Since January, the locai population has received no meat on meat coupons, which are being \serviced\ by candies. Vodka is easier to get than bread. It is available both for coupons and at market prices. There is a distillery in Kashin, but local people are only entitled to one bottle per month - instead of two like elsewhere in the Region. Therefore, bootleggers prosper in Kashin, and people drink like fish, alone or with their families. The heavy drinking had been tolerated until the tragedy of June 29. Following the pogrom, the local industrial workers announced their \economic ultimatum\ to the municipal authorities. \Our.Big Brothers have been pulling our legs,\ the appeal published in the local newspaper reads, \But we have had enough. Your indifference, incompetence and inefficiency in satisfying social needs of the people of Kashin are worse than crim,inal.\ The workers threatened to impeach the CPSU and municipal authorities. Scapegoats First Secretary of the Kashin city ,party committee Alexander Babichev has not taken the ultimatum seriously. He is convinced the 29 June events were caused by \the ,persons of Caucasian nationalities\ whose \provocative\ behavior made local people \take to the streets\. The party secretary is referring to the public rallies which demand \eviction of all Caucasians.\ Persona:lly, he is against eviction because if the Caucasians go, approximately a third of local cattle will have to be slaughtered, due to the severe shortage of cattle workers. 'But in crisis,-_considerations uf economy give. way .to considerations of power. When the crowd is out to make the architects of their meagre ex.istence accountable, it is easier to direct their anger against the \aliens\. Exodus The \speculators\ have been ousted. The farm market in Kashin is all but empty. Cattle breeders are leaving, too. The authorities are worried about the future of the local herds and do not know the exact number of departures. The most awesome effect of the threats and pogroms by dnmkeH \patriots\ is the flight of the local people related to the Caucasians. Lena Patichcva (nee Starostina), 17, an employee of the local Hous.e of Culture, is hurriedly packing to leave for Daghestan to live with her Avcarian mother-in- law. Her husband Osman, who has just finished a veterinary college in Kashin and is due to be drafted in the Army early in autumn, will ·not be able to protect her ~nd their eight- month daughter Dasha from local \patriots who have threatened \to smear her all over the walls\. So far the Patichevs' neighbors have been hiding the girl. Lena's two friends, beaten up by the local lads for having Caucasian fiances, are packing up, too. They are scared stiff, and expect no peace at home. Will there be peace for the Caucasu~? I can't forget what one Daghestani, who accompanied the body of his friend, who had been slaughtered in Kashin said: \We shall pay in kind in Makhachkala\. Revenge is more intoxicating than vodka. WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 29 COLLEGE CENTER ROOM 406-7:30 P.M. FABLE OF THE BEAUTIFUL PI,GEON-FANCIER Based in a fragment from his novel Love in the Time of Cholera. this film was conceived and co-written by Nobel Prize winner Gabriel Garcia Marques. This tells the story of Orestes, a wealthy factory owner who falls madly in love with a marrie'\l pigeon breeder. \An elegant Wellesian comedy of fate and manners\. Spanish dialog with English subtitles. SOCIALIZED MEDICINE A Nation's medical system reflects its personality TERM England Holland Hungary Applications: HU 211 - Due February 10 TUTORING AVAILABLE Caculus-alllevels Differential Equations Physics-all levels Call 370-6850 Dmitly 370-6820 Leonid

ust tare By Andrew R. Rosen Concordiensis Staff It happens in restaurants. H happens in hotel lobbies. On vacations. In casinos. At aU- you-can-eat salad bars and savory smorgasbords near yo11. Banks, beaches and bathrooms. Malls and yes, in the College Center. The looking art of people watching entices the individual to stare. Some relish in the art of strategic placement so as to observe perpetually the unknowi,ng passerby. Age makes no difference. The only distinction between my sister at the unexperienced age of three and a seasoned veteran like my father is the silence. My sister would have yelled sometlling to someone if she stared long enough whereas my father would remain silent We, as humans, love to stare. Even as I allowed my thoughts to embatk on that journey from cerebral cortex to Bic pen, my head lifted every three to four minutes to register any new additions to my tropical An Overnight Camp of domain. For even in complete relaxation on a beach, my internal \stare\ program continued to predominate. There ru:e those that deny it. Those that exploit it and those that casually loose themselves in a crowd, a floral arrangement or behind a fogged deli window - the experts. The people watchers. As my good friend Jason said, \Fat skinny, tall or short. It's cool.\ The gift of gaze is not simply nature over nurture. Granted, there are those born with the raw materials, the desire, the tenacity and perseverance. But there are those that also go beyond the \gifted\, continually acquiring new and more effective tools. I had a brief discussion with Mrs. Barbara Goldstein, housewife over 30, mother of three and respected as one of the top six people watchers in the Greater Buffalo area. I asked her where the best place--to watch is: \Hmmm. Malls are up there. The space, the crowds - but you've got to be hungry, you've got to want it. Hotel Summer the {ewish Community Center of Greater Boston JCC Camp Kingswood, a coed overnight camp in Bridgton, Maine is looking for talented, creative and enthusiastic staff. lobbies are orgasmic! The old, the young - they beg, they plead, 'stare at me, stare at me!' So I oblige.\ Each of us try to shade our actions, glaring earnestly without warning and without giving ourselves away. The target of our focal trounce must be worth the investing gaze. \I hate rotten teeth,\ says Mrs. Goldstein. \It detracts me from my purpose and I loose that edge, that real focus of attention. Yes, I definitely hate rotten teeth.\ We all have our favorites. Some look at the old, some the young and others the middle aged. An old man seems to detract me while my sister appears to have ·mastered the ability to look everywhere (a condition known as \omnigazing\). Who we stare at and where, however, remains to comprise a mere fraction of a grander scheme. Those that have aspired to reach a higher level of observation still admit to the necessity of various tools. obstructions and camouflaging agents. My father, for example, enjoys the comforting cushion of a hotel lobby's chair: \They (the chairs) are simply more comfortable,\ he states~ \They tend to be oriented towards various walkways, exits and the front desk -.all concentrated with watchees. ;, Many people forgo ·the strat~gic aspect of people watching for one of the greatest camouflaging tools in the business: sunglasses. Quite simply, your eyes see them, but they - the watchees - do not see y<mr eyes. \We are the invisible cats,\ says Mrs. Goldstein, \lurking over hoards of unsuspecting mice!\ Nuff said'. Of course, this isn't a one- way street. This tango takes two, my man. Reciprocity strikes everywhere, If we accept, for a moment, the fact that globally, everyone is watching everyone, then aren't we all be stared at? That's the risk you learn to accept· and respect. Some enjoy it; accepting it as a check, if you like, keeping them honest and on their toes. When it strikes the upper echelon of seekers, however, the real professionals, the acceptance of plausible vulnerability strikes a lethal blow to the confidence and a fierce defense mechanism engages. Mrs. Goldstein firmly establishes her position on reciprocity, stating.: \If someone is staring at me, I look right back at them and say, 'Mind your own business you sons of bitches!\' Diplomacy at it's best In this world of who's who and who's not, just being there is a warrant for ocular intrusion. To enter an elevator, riding twelve floors in silence, praying to G-d you don't fart, knowing everybody is offering that casual yet studious glance - this is the truth. Part of staring at others is knowing that you too will be stared at. As cruel and as honest as it sounds, Mrs. Goldstein truly makes the most salient point by saying: \I only look at the outside of a person. It's such a topical thing.\ On that note, I'H pass on the hair-loss LreaLment. Administrative positions available include Program Director, Head Counselors and Deportment Heads. Applications for the ORIENTATION Counselor positions with teaching skills in drama, boating, sailing, swimming, photography, computers, athletics, arts & crafts, tennis, archery, camping, music, and Israeli dance. Also available-kitchen, office, and grounds crew positions. COMMI1TEE Director will be on campus Wednesday, January 29. Come to CDC, 3rd floor Old. Chapel to sign up for an interview by January 27 Are due January 22nd They are notv available from Mrs. Facenda in the Dean of Students Office. · Do. You Want VISA & .. MasterCard Credit Cards? Now you can have two of the most recognized and accepted credit cards fn the world ... VJsa® and MasterCard® credit cards ... Min your name.\ EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN CREDIT or HAVE BEEN 'IURNED OOWN BEFORE! VISA® and MasterCard® the credit cards you deserve and need for- ID-BOOK5-DEPARTMENT STORES-TUJTION-l£NTERTAI~ENT­ EMERGENCY CASH-TICKETS-RESTAURANT$- HQTEI..S-MOTELS-GAS-CAR REN7ALS- REPAIR5-AND TO BUIW YOUR CREDIT RATING! GUAAANTEEDI VISA/MASTERCARD GU~RAMTIEED tSIUI 011 MOtfEY lACk Approval absolutely guaranteed so MAIL THIS NO.FIISK 'COUPON TODA 'V ------------------------- : STUDENT $_ERVICES. PO BOX 2596, HOLL WOOD, Fl 33022: 1 YES! I want VJSA®/MASJ'ERCARD® Credit : · Cards. Enclosed find $15 which Is 100% refundable if not I approved immediately. I NAME ADDRESS CtrY ----- STATE-ZJP __ _ PHONE ----- S.S.# ------ I I I I I I I SIGNATIJRE I I NOT£: MasteaCanlls a reglsteiUI trademark ~ Maste!Olrd lniemollonal. Inc. I I V2sa Is a reglsU!IUI bademark ~VISA USA. Inc. and VISA lntcmalloral I I Scrvtca Allaoctatton. tOO% GUARANTEED! I I . I L---~~----------------------------------------------~---------~---. ---------------------

OPEN HUSH FUNCTION Plm~WING~ SATURDAYJ JAN. 18 AT 7:~0 COME MEET THE BROTHERS OF ' . . ·DELTA UPSILON We Want Y{)U At Kelly's Pub *Great .Food *$3.00 P:i'tches AT -1050 PARK AVE. Ml NlfWflCOM[!!! (Meiste-r Brau) Thursday Night~Senior Night . . 2 for 1 Wings Locat1on: Corner of Foster and Hattie Streets •Photo ID Required TO ALL FRESHMEN: COME TO THE A(J) HAN GOVER HELPER ALL FRESHMEf\J ARE I NV I TED TO THE A q, DRY RUSH FUNCTION ON SATURDAY JAN . 1 8 AT 1 2 NOON } AT DELTA PH I . BRUNCH, HOT BEVERAGES AND GOOD COMPANY WATCH FOR READER SURVEYS OF CONCORDIENSIS COMING SOON --·- --- -------

4tnltfllrbitttsis ---Founded at l!nio11 College 187'7-· -- Union College Is Falling Down, Falling Down . . . . As the winter air cools the Union College campus and its inhal;>itants begin to spend more time indoors, the physical inadequacy of Union's buildings becomes more and more apparent. Usually, the only building at Union which is widely seen as crumbling to the ground is tile Nott Memorial. One could write books of editorials about the sadness of the unchecked deterioration of the historical, and once beautiful building. However, this topic has been exhausted and answered with little change and is now boring. There are now other buildings which can, and should, be put under widespread scrutiny. After all, the Nott isn't getting any better, so why not abandon the cause and pay attention to other buildings before they are beyond repair, also? Take Schaffer Library, for example. There are reports that the floors of the library are buckling. The school is allegedly being forced to take books out of the building so that massive repairs can be made. It makes one wonder why the school waited until the last minu1e to begin this repair project. The library has . become another Nott memorial, another example of the · school waiting until it was too late to fix a building. Instead of make preventative repairs along the way, the school will now have to accomplish an enormous amount of work to make the building safe. Other buildings which are in need of change are not falling apart; however, they are widely seen as inadequate. One example is the Psychology Building, whose narrow halls are off limits to tour groups without special permission. It would be a good guess that the school made this policy to hide the unattractive building from prospective students. Another area which is in need of change is the dormitory system. The dorms are so unattractive in comparison to off campus housing that most students attempt to leave the school grounds. The construction of new, more acceptable housing is the answer to the problem, not forcing people to live on campus, which is the present solution. There are many other areas in which Union's physical facilities should be improved. Several have been brought up in the past and ignored, including air conditioning and expansion of the gymnasi urn facilities. It is time for the school to stop procrastinating and to take a good look at itself. The changes which are now urgent should be made now, before they become emergencies. The More The Merrier As the largest and most powerful female organization on campus, the Panhellenic Council continues to disappoint independent female students. Over the past several years, the Council has repeatedly turned down national female Greek organizations interested in founding new chapters at Union College. These decisions are inexcusable. This refusal to expand the female Greek system not. only condones the existing inequalities between men and women on campus but also seeks to create other inequities between females themselves. As winter rush approaches, it is outrageous that men have nearly twenty choices while women have a mere four, in choosing to join a single-sexed organization. Moreover, many females are purged by the system ir such a way that they have no choice at all. While the Panhellenic Council claims to act in the best interest of females on campus, the governing body is clearly a self-serving organization ci.edicated tc exclusivity. The organization can no longer hide behind the excuse that one sorority does not yet have housing. The Panhellenic Council must begin to act upon its tacit responsibility to the female community. Adding a sorority would be a good start. Unnatural Quiet Equals Anti-Gay Sentiment To the Editor: This past November, a former Union College student was convicted for murder. This student was arrested.on campus last year, near the end of fall term. Surprisingly, there has been no coverage of student's arrest or conviction anywhere on campus. Granted, because he was convicted in November, the Concordiensis may well have had no time before this issue to cover the s.tory and infonn the campus, But this does not explain why the news:. of the arrest was not covered. Now, my main reason for alarm stems from the nature of this murder-it was a gay- bashing incident. The victim was ·kiJ:lea, frankly. solely because of his sexual orientation.. This element of the murder makes me suspicious at the absence of coverage at Union. It seems that the unnatural quiet about the murder, the vacuum in the news coverage, ana the apparent content with tllis silence together prove solidly that something must be done to contest the enormous. anti,. gay sentiment at Union College~ It's time. Sincerely. Nancy Rourke Class of '93 Student Safety Concerns Addressed To the Editor: Over the past three years the Student Forum has heard numerous complaints about Security's escort service. The main reason the escort service is frequently late is that it is abused as a taxi service by certain students. The purpose of the escort service is not to transport fourteen people from Fox dormitory to up campus parties; rather, it is to provide safe transportation for small groups of women or men. In an effort to solve this problem the Student Forum in conjunction with Union Security is qualifying the escort service. As implemented at the beginning of this term, security will transport no more than 3 females and/or 1 male to single destination. Note the last pluase of that qualification. Security will transport more than 3 females and 1 male if they have different destinations because it. is in the interest of safety. Also, exceptions will be made for those with debilitating injuries. Please respect these quelifir:ations because it will allow Union's Security Force to deal with larger safety issues. More important, there will be an attempt to implement a shuttle bus by Lee Metchick and Students Against Drunk Driving. It will operate on the weekends and will stop at major on and off-campus locations. The cost will be $5.00 per term. Sign up sheets for tickets will b,e supplied by R.A. 's, Greek Presidents and at the College Center Information Booth. Please sign up immediately because the plan will be abandoned in the absence of significant interest. Sincerely, Brendan Clifford President, Student J-7orurn Taking A Bite Out of the Crime Rate To the Editor: An article in the last issue of Concordiensis, \The Union College Bureaucracy: A Necessary Cost of an Education?\ by Jordon Lippner, New Editor, reported that \ .... Schenectady has the highest crime rate in the country for a city in its class.\ I was so surprised to read this that I decided to take a look at the crime rates for various cities in the F.B.I.'s 1990 Uniform Crime Reports in the library. Schenectady's crime rate (property and violent crime · taken together) is below the rate for cities in its population class (50,000-99,999). Schenectady's 1990 crime rate per 100,000 population is 5139.9, while the rate for the 314 U.S. cities of comparable population is 6657.1. All letters to the editor must be typed, double spaced, signed with a name, ID and telephone number and submitted to the Concordiensis office by 4:00pm on the Tuesday preceding weekly issuance of Concordiensis Schenectady's crime rate is also lower than the rate for New York state, 6363.8, and the rate for the Northeast, 5193.5. I would be interested in knowing the source of Mr. Lippner's infonnation, as well as his definition of Schenectady's \class\. Sincerely your.s, Therese A. McCarty Assistant Professor of Economics

<lt.onrorbfrnsis ---Founded at Union College 1877-- Union College Falling Down, Is Falling Down • • • As the winter air cools the Union College campus and its inhabitants begin to spend more time indoors, the physical inadequacy of Union's buildings becomes more and more apparent. Usually, the only building at Union which is widely seen as crumbling to the ground is the Nott Memorial. One could write books of editorials about the sadness of the unchecked deterioration of the historical, and once beautiful building. However, this topic has been exhausted and answered with little change and is now boring. There are now other buildings which can, and should, be put under widespread scrutiny. After all, the Nott isn't getting any better, so why not abandon the cause and pay attention to other buildings before they are beyond repair, also? Take Schaffer Library, for example. There are reports that the floors of the library are buckling. The school is allegedly being forced to take books out of the building so that massive repairs can be made. It makes one wonder why the school waited until the last minute to begin this repair project. The library has become another Nott memorial, another example of the school waiting until it was too late to fix a building. Instead of make preventative repairs along the way, the school will now have to accomplish an enormous amount of work to make the building safe. Other buildings which are in need of change are not falling apart; however, they are widely seen as inadequate. One example is the Psychology Building, whose narrow halls are off limits to tour groups without special permission. It would be a good guess that the school made this policy to hide the unattractive building from prospective students. Another area which is in need of change is the dormitory system. The dorms are so unattractive in compari~on to off campus housing that most students attempt to leave the school grounds. The construction of new, more acceptable housing is the answer to the problem, not forcing people to live on campus, which is the present sol uti on. There are many other areas in which Union's physical facilities should be improved. Several have been brought up in the past and ignored, including air conditioning and expansion of the gymnasium facilities. It is time for the school to stop procrastinating and to take a good look at itself. The changes which are now urgent should be made now, before they become emergencies. The More The Merrier As the largest and most powerful female organization on campus, the Panhellenic Council continues to disappoint independent female students. Over the past several years, the Council has repeatedly turned down national female Greek organizations interested in founding new chapters at Union College. These decisions are inexcusable. This refusal to expand the female Greek system not only condones the existing inequalities between men and women on campus but also seeks to create other inequities between females themselves. As winter rush approaches, it is outrageous that men have nearly twenty choices while women have a mere four, in choosing to join a single-sexed organization. Moreover, many females are purged by the system ir such a way that they have no choice at all. Whi Ie the Pan hellenic Council claims to act in the best interest of females on campus, the governing body is clearly a self-serving crganization C!edicated tc exclusivity. The organization can no longer hide behind the excuse that one sorority does not yet have housing. The Panhellenic Council must begin to act upon its tacit responsibility to the female community. Adding a sorority would be a good start. CONCORDIENSIS e JANUARY 16, 1992 • PAGE 10 Unnatural Quiet Equals Anti-Gay Sentiment To the Editor: This past November, a former Union College student was convicted for murder. This stadent was arrested on campus last year, near the end of fall term. Surprisingly, there has been no coverage of student's arrest or conviction anywhere on campus. Granted, because he was convicted in November, the Concordiensis may well have had no time before this issue to cover the story and inform the campus. But this does not explain why the news of the arrest was not covered. Now, my main reason for alarm stems from the nature of this murder-it was a gay- bashing incident. The victim was killed, frankly, solely because of his sexual orientation. This element of the murder makes me suspicious at the absence of coverage at Union. It seems that the tmnatural quiet about the murder, the vacuum in the news coverage, and the apparent content with this silence together prove solidly that something rn ust be done to contest the enormous anti- gay sentiment at Union College. It's time. Sincerely, Nancy Rourke Class of '93 Student Safety Concerns Addressed To the Editor: Over the past three years the Student Forum has heard numerous complaints about Security's escort service. The main reason the escort service is frequently late is that it is abused as a taxi service by certain students. The purpose of the escort service is not to transport fowteen people from Fox dormitory to up campus parties; rather, it is to provide safe transportation for small groups of women or men. In an effort to solve this problem the Student Forum in conjunction with Union Security is qualifying the escort service. As implemented at the beginning of this term, security will transport no more than 3 females and/or 1 male to single destination. Note the last phrase of that qualification. Security will transport more than 3 females and 1 male if they have diffel.ient destinations because it is in the interest of safety. Also, exceptions will be made for those with debilitating injuries. Please respect these qm~lifir.ations because it will allow Union's Security Force to deal with larger safety issues. More important, there will be an attempt to implement a shuttle bus by Lee Metchick and Students Against Drunk Driving. It will operate on th.e weekends and will stop at major on and ()ff-campus locations. The cost will be $5.00 per term. Sign up sheets for tickets will be supplied by R.A.'s, Greek Presidents and at tile College Center Information Booth. Please sign up immediately because the plaa will be abandoned in the absence of significant interest. Sincerely, Brendan Oifford President, Student Forum Taking A Bite Out of the Crime Rate 'To the Editor: An article in the last issue of Concordiensis, \The Union College Bureaucracy: A N eccssary Cost of an Education?\ by Jordon Lippner, New Editor, reported that \ .... Schenectady has the highest crime rate in the country for a city in its class.\ I was so surprised to read this that I decided to take a look at the crime rates for various cities in the F.B.I.'s 1990 Uniform Crime Reports in the library. Schenectady's crime rate (property and violent crime taken together) is below the rate for cities in its population class (50,()00-99,999). Schenectady's 1990 crime rate per 100,000 population is 5139.9, while the rate for the 314 U.S. cities of comparable population is 6657.1. All letters to the editor must be typed, double spaced, signed with a name, ID and telephone number and submitted to the Concordiensis office by 4:00pm on the Tuesday preceding weeki y issuance of Concordiensis Schenectady's crime rate is also lower than the rate for New York state, 6363.8, and the rate for the Northeast, 5193.5. I would be interested in knowing the source of Mr. Lippner's information, as well as his definition of Schenectady's \class\. Sincerely yours, Therese A. McCarty Assistant ?rofessor of Economics .-·· j~ll;~J;t;.~fin>~fiJl~if;ff{ ·i·'~~-ttt:~t B.~o?Y· .. J .. ·.. , Stephanie ;Jl:R.xist Adam Epst~n, Enca ri.~;;:.t;; .te-J!~;;ni!....,a\\l· .. · ··.··· .. nr··\''\'\' .. '· ··. :f .... n_n··. n_al.._:_insky ... Ean_ .. _nab_, rra.t'of\:, ;J u V\A!(')IV .1 ~ \\:'~~ ,;,~.'-' P. 'i ' :> . ..· .. · J. fiiltenJ 1t\ri t<elle. ··aur • 'Lbu1se0ster, K-en Perei. Betsy RothStein, Rebecca Smackey. J'etemy Sollinger. ADVERTISING STAFFt Jennifer Anderson, Nima Cleary, Lisa iUJ)elus, Sharon Srnith CONCOlUJmNSlS is published. eight thursdays. !l term by the S'tudettt body. of Union Coll~g.e, Schenectady. New York 12308;_:Publi~tlol.1s Office; Su&quenan~a Pttblication;s. Inc •• l}Q~ 3S~. Srdt~erf Ntw Y~rk l3i5l8 (60'7) 563~8339. Subsorlp.tion tate: . · · . deliyere<t anywll:ete in . the United S'tat4s. · ·.. to Cnue.ordi•tnlis, a!fice, · stt 'bes\ ($1 ${().. .

Pro-SAT Editorial Disparaging; Student Intelligence ,Criticized Proud Alum Discredits SAT Use To the Editor: I recently visited Union and was horribly ~urprised to see your desire for the tetum ofthe SATs. Union remains one of the most forward thinking teaching schools in the country and dropping the SAT requirement is just more evidence. Most educators know that the SATs are outdated and feel that they are meaningless indicators of college success. As a Union EE alumni, let me assure you that the college is in the top ranks now and has . been thtoughout the past 196 years. The word 'mediocre' can never be applied to Union, but may be attached to your negative thinking. It sounds like you wanted to get into the Ivys, but couldn't get in. As a Columbia MBA, my Union College degree has never collected any dust and shares equal footing with my graduate degree. This applies to all my Union fiends who are doctors, lawyers, engineers, professors and in the Peace Corp. Alumni are smart, successful and proud of Union. People know of Union's repotation even in Kansas where I live now. AdmisSions must always seek the best students, but they don't have to use the 'old fashioned SAT's.' Stop whining and enjoy Union! Sincerely, Timothy T. Hesler '85 Union: Not A Mediocre Institution · To the Editor: Your editorial \Bring Back the SAT's\ did a profound disservice to both the College and your fellow students. To claim that Union is \mediocre\ is .odd: there are over 3,200 colleges and universities in the U.S., Union is standardly listed as one of the top 50 national liberal arts colleges. In some areas, e.g. the number of biol-ogy students who attend medical, dental and veterinary schools, it is number one - Le. according to the Council on Undergraduate research, Union · sends more biology students (not proportionately, but in absolute numbers) to the~e professional schools than any other college or university in the country. Unfortunately there are no \objective\ ratings for students in my own department, but Union's philosophy students also seem to do remarkably well in geUing into major graduate and law schools. In fact, colloquium speakers and other visitors frequently compliment us on the quality of our students. techincal terms, if you score 1300 or better on the SAT's, than you are very bright (i.e. , brightness is a suffident condition for a high score). On the other hand, you can be very bright and still not score 1300 because, for any number of reasons, you do not perform well on standardized tests (which is to say that a low score does not necessadly indicate that y<>u are less bright). A mediocre institution might fear to gamble on its judgement and stick to the SATs as its primary measure for admitting students. A truly first-rate institution, like Union, will have the courage if its convictions and dare to be unconventional. Hard Data Behind The Change Which brings me to the point which prompted this letter - a logical confusion underlying your editorial. Union can and does have superlative studen.ts, even though many may not have performed superlatively on the SATSs, because high perfonnance on the SA Ts is, as we like to say in introductory logic courses, a sufficient, but not a necessary, indicator Sincerely, Robert Baker Professor and Chair To the Editor: Your editorial suggesting that the college bring back the SAT was misleading in many aspects. First, it is wrong to suggest that the higher \accepta11.ce rates\ this year was in many way related to the SAT decision. In the year after the SAT decision Union was more difficult to get into than the previous year. Most colleges and universities have had admissions problems in the last two years as a result of the smaller cohorts graduating high school and the fact that these smaller numbers are actually applying to more schools. This has made it very difficult for admissi()n officers to estimate the \yield\ or the percentage of those who are admitted or who will actll3lly enroll. The reason the college made the SAT optional was to make a strong statement in favour of achievement and demonstrated success by students in tbe classroom. The emphasis in admissions was to shift towards hlgh school rank and grade poillt average as selection criteria. We also placed more emphasis on the College Boards or\ Achievement tests\ as well. Tbe change in emphasis was not ideological, but supported by hard data. Many studies elsewhere had concluded that the SAT was a poor predictor of college achievement In fact, GPA and class rank were stronger predictors of grades in the first year of college than the SAT. After one year of college, students who did not submit their SAT score had virtually the same GPA as students wbo did submit their SAT. Class rank and high school GPA as well as the English achievement test continue to outperfonn the SAT. Indeed, the College Board has now revised the SAT to try to improve its ability to predict college success. It should also be pointed out that the SAT bad a consistent record of being used in ways that put women applicants at a disadvantage. In New York State, when the Regents scholarships were given on the basis of SAT scores, 60% of the scholarships went to males, even though female graduates had higher grade point averages and class rank. When the selection criteria was changed, the discrepancy disappeared. OA Applications Available To the editor: Applications for the Orientation Committee are now available in the Dean of Students Office. The applications are due January 22, at which time an inter must be scheduled. The Orientation Committee is completely student run, and is respo11sible for planning and executing Orientation. Some responsibilities include interviewing and selecting OA's, planning all events for Orientation, and attending weekly meetings throughout Winter and Spring terms. In order to have a successful Orientation, we need a diverse committee. Therefore, it is necessary for everyone interest to apply. Please note that these applications are for those interested in the Orientation Committee. For those interested in applying to be an Orientation Advisor, applications will be available at a later date. Sincerely, David Rosenblum '93 Roxanne Schneider '93 1992 Orientation Co-Chairs ANONYMOUS LETTERS AND THOSE OVER 500 WORDS WILL NT BE PRINTED 1 of intelligence. In non- Similarly, when colleges rely heavily on a test which attempts to gauge \potential\ rather then \achievement\ it places those students for whom these tests historically fail to measure successfully at a disadvantage. Statistics Against SAT Use One should remember that the Union decision was followed by similar decisions at Middlebury, Sarah Lawrence and other excellent institutions. Our recognition as one of the most outstanding liberal arts colleges in the nation remains intact. It is dismaying to have the college newspaper refer to Union as \mediocre\ and suggest that alumni who are justifiably proud of this college hide their diplomas. This is nonsense. There are over three thousand colleges and universities and it is universally accepted that Union is among the top 30 or 40 small colleges in the nation. Clearly we have areas where we can improve, and excellence most be an on-going commitment. Union cann\Ot rest on its past reputation or it will eventually suffer. Yet we can be proud of what we have acllieved and the courage the institution bas shown in leading the way towards a more responsible and humane way of selecting students for admission. Sincerely, Terry S. Weiner Associate Dean of Faculty . To the Editor: The November 14th editorial, \Bring Back the SAT's,\ was charming in its optimism, but somewhat unconvincing in its argument. You suggest that Union can become a more distinguished college by only letting in students with high SAT's. Do you imagine that the Dean of : Admissions has been turning away hundreds of high-scoring . applicants, that he bars the , door against those tbe ETS in Princeton says are smart? Such students are for the most part admitted already; some enroll . here, many enroll elsewhere. If we only enrolled students with math and Verbal SAT scores each over, let us· say, 620, we would have half-empty classes, varsity teams perhaps without the necessary eleven, or six, or five starters, an insupportable budget deficit, all young untenured faculty laid off, and perhaps very few people to read, or write, this newspaper. What is more to the point, dropping the SAT's has been a success. I am an interested party, because I was a member ·of the committee that recommended this change in admissions requirements, but I look at tbe evidence. The grades of students admitted without the SAT were often FIJI BASKETBALL MARATHON higher in high school, and are not lower in college, than those who submitted their scores. Furthermore, it is interesting to look at the performance of women students at the college in recent years. Women and minorities you may know, on average score lower on the SAT, which leads some scholars to conclude there is a bias in the test. So dropping the SAT has permitted, in part, more women to be admitted on the basis of good grades in high school. Well, women over recent years have made up no more than 43% of the student body, yet they constitute and 58% of those graduating with honors, and 73% of those admitted to Phi Beta Kappa. The average grade for women is from one to two and a half decimal points higher than that of men. This is only some of the evidence, but it is enough to show that the best students in recent years at Union,\ have been women, a group that scores lower on the SAT than men. This led one friend to remark: You know how to improve Union College? Make it a women's school. Sincerely Adrian Frazier English Department To Benefit the Multiple Sclerosis Foundation February 7th ,_ 8th To enter a team in the tournament contact Matt Grabowski or Josh Kaplan at 386-4153 or 386-4169 Prizes and Trophies for the Winners.

CONCORDIENSIS • JANUARY 16 1992 • PAGE 11 Pro-SAT Editorial Disparaging; Student Intelligence Criticized Proud Alum Discredits SAT Use To the Editor: I recently visited Union and was horribly ~urprised to see your desire for the return of the SA Ts. Union Femains one of the most forward thinking teaching schools in the country and dropp:illg the SAT requirement is just more evidence. Most educators know that the SATs are outdated and feel that they are meaningless indicators of college success. As a Union EE alumni, let me assure you that the college is in the top ranks now and has been throughout the past 196 years. The word 'mediocre' can never be applied to Union, but may be attached to your negative thinking. It sounds like you wanted to get into the Ivys, but couldn't get in. As a Columbia MBA, my Union College degree has never collected any dust and shares equal footing with my graduate degree. This applies to all my Union fiends who are doct<>rs, lawyers, engineers, professors and in the Peace Corp. Alumni are smart, successful and pmud of Union. People know of Union's reputation even in Kansas where I live now. Admissions must always seek the best students, but tftey don't have to use the '()ld fashioned SAT's.' Stop whining and enjoy Union! Sincerely, Timothy T. Hesler '85 Union: Not A Mediocre Institution To the Editor: Your editorial \Bring Back the SAT's\ did a profound disservice t1> both the College and your fellow students. To claim that Union is \mediocre\ is odd: there are over 3,200 colleges and universities in the U.S., Union is stamlardly listed as one of the top 50 national liberal arts colleges. In some areas, e .. g. the number of biology students who attend medical, dental and veterinary schools, it is number one - i.e. according to the Council on Undergraduate research, Union sends more biology students (not proportionately, but in absolute numbers) to these professional schools than any other coHege or university in the country. Unfor~unately there are no \objective\ ratings for students in my own department, but Union's philosophy students also seem to do remarkably well in getting into major graduate and law schools. In fact, colloquium speakers and other visitors frequently compliment us on the quality of our students. techincal terms, if you score 1300 or better on the SAT's, than you are very bright (i.e. , brightness is a sufficient condition for a high score). On the other hand, you can be very bright and still not score 1300 because, for any number of reasons, you do not perform well on standardized tests (which is to say that a low score does not necessarily indicate that you are less bright). A mediocre institution might fear to gamble on its judgement and stick to the SA Ts as its primary measure for admitting students. A truly first-rate institution, like Union, will have the courage if its convictions and dare to be unconventional. Hard Data Behind The Change Which brings me to the point which prompted this letter - a logical confusion underlying your editorial. Union can and does have superlative students, even though many may not have perfonned superlatively on the SATSs, because high performance on the SATs is, as we like to say in intmductory logic courses, a sufficient, but not a necessary, indicator Sincerely, Robert Baker Professor and Chair To the Editor: Your editorial suggesting that the college bring back the SAT was misleading in many aspects. First, it is wrong to suggest that the higher \acceptance rates\ this year was in many way related to the SAT decision. In the year after the SAT decision Union was more difficult to get into than the previous year. Most colleges and universities have had admissions problems in the last two years as a result of the smaller cohorts graduating high school and the fact that these smaller numbers are actually applying to more schools. This has made it very difficult for admission officers to estimate the \yield\ or the percentage of those who are admitted or who will actually enroll. The reason the college made the SAT optional was to make a strong statement in favour of achievement and demonstrated success by students in the classroom. The emphasis in admissions was to shift towards high school rank and grade point average as selection criteria. We also placed more emphasis on the College Boards or \Achievement tests\ as well. The change in emphasis was not ideological, but supported by hard data. Many studies elsewhere had concluded that the SAT was a poor predictor of college achievement In fact, GPA and class rank were stronger predictors of grades in the first year of college than the SAT. After one year of college, students who did not submit their SAT score had virtually the same GP A as students who did submit their SAT. Class rank and high school GPA as well as the English achievement test continue to outperform the SAT. Indeed, the College Board has now revised the SAT to try to improve its ability to predict college success. It should also be pointed out that the SAT had a consistent record of being used in ways that put women applicants at a disadvantage. In New York State, when the Regents scholarships were given on the basis of SAT scores, 60% of the scholarships went to males, even though female graduates had higher grade point averages and class rank. When the selection criteria was changed, the discrepancy disappeared. OA Applications Available To the editor: Applications for the Orientation Committee are now available in the Dean of Students Office. The applications are due January 22, at which time an inter must be scheduled. The Orientation Committee is completely student run, and is responsible for planning and executing Orientation. Some responsibilities include interviewing and selecting OA's, planning all events for Orientation, and attending weekly meetings throughout Winter and Spring tenns. In order to have a success£ul Orientation, we need a diverse committee. Therefore, it is necessary for everyone interest to apply. Please note that these applications are for those interested in the Orientation Committee. For those interested in applying to be an 0 r i e n tat i on A d v i sor , applications will be available at a later date. Sincerely, David Rosenblum •93 Roxanne Schneider •93 1992 Orientation Co-Chairs ANONYMOUS LETTERS AND THOSE OVER SOO WORDS WILL NT BE PRINTED r of intelligence. In non- Similarly, when colleges rely heavily on a test which attempts to gauge \potential\ rather then \achievement\ it places those students for whom these tests historically fail to measure successfully at a disadvantage. Statistics Against SAT Use One should remember that the Union decision was followed by similar decisions at Middlebury, Sarah Lawrence and other excellent institutions. Our recognition as one of the most outstanding liberal arts colleges in the nation remains intact. It is dismaying to have the college newspaper refer to Union as \mediocre\ and suggest that alumni who are justifiably proud of this college hide their diplomas. This is nonsense. There are over three thousand colleges and universities and it is universally accepted that Union is among the top 30 or 40 small colleges in the nation. Clearly we have areas where we can improve, and excellence must be an on-going commitment. Union cannot rest on its past reputation or it will eventually suffer. Yet we can be proud of what we have achieved and the courage the institution has shown in leading the way towards a more responsible and humane way of selecting students for admission. Sincerely, Terry S. Weiner Associate Dean of Facnlty To the Editor: The November 14th editorial, \Bring Back the SAT's,\ was charming in its optimism, but somewhat unconvincing in its argument. You suggest that Union can become a more distinguished college by only letting in students with high SA Ts. Do you ima_gine that the Dean of Admissions has been turning away hundreds of high-scoring applicants, that he bars the door against those the ETS in : Princeton says are smart? Such students are for the most part admitted already; some enroll . here, many enroll elsewhere. If we only enrolled students with math and Verbal SAT scores each over, let us say, 620, we would have half-empty classes, varsity teams perhaps without the necessary eleven, or six, or five starters, an insupportable budget deficit, all young untenured faculty laid off, and perhaps very few people to read, or write, this newspaper. What is more to the point, dropping the SAT's has been a success. I am an interested party, because I was a member of the committee that recommended this change in admissions requirements, but I look at the evidence. The grades of students admitted without the SAT were often FIJI BASKE'tBALL MARATHON higher in high school, and arc not lower in college, than those who submitted their scores. Furthermore, it i.s interesting to look at the performance of women studenL..; at the college in recent years. Women and minorities \'ou may know, on average s:ore lower on the SAT, which leads some scholars to conclude there is a bias in the test. So dropping the SAT has permitted, in part, more women to be admitted on the basis of good grades in high school. Well, women over recent years have made up no more than 43% of the student body, yet they constitute and 58% of those graduating with honors, and 73% of those admitted to Phi Beta Kappa. The average grade for women 1s from one to two and a half decimal points higher than that of men. This is only some of the evidence, but it is enough to show that the bcsl students in recent years at Union, have been women, a group that scores lower on the SAT than men. This led one friend to remark: You know how to improve Union College'? Make it a women's school. Sincerely Adrian Frazier English Department To Benefit the Multiple Sclerosis Foundation February 7th ~ 8th To enter a team in the tournament contact Matt Grabowski or Josh Kaplan at 386-4153 or 386-4169 Prizes and Trophies for the Winners.

I . ' . . . . \ , ' ' ' ·. ' ' :·· : . :. ' ' ' . ., ·. . . ' ' . ' . . . ' . . ' . . CONCORDIENSIS • JANUARY 16, 1992 • PAGE 12 Homelessness in America .... Whose Fault Is It? by Ken Perel A.J. has a summer home on Cape Cod Bay. He also has a private boat. His job allows him the benefit of a flexible schedule and minimal required hours, while still paying proportionally high in this depressed economy. Although he never matriculated past high school, he is fairly intelligent and brings a seldom encountered wit to his occupation. A.J. is a commercial fishing boat Jumper. He is solely responsible for transferring freshly caught fish from the deep sea dragger's holds to the docks above via bushel baskets. He has no other job requirements. A.J. receives a check from the boat for $0.006 dollars per pound of fish moved. He also receives upwards of thirty pounds of his choice of fish from the fishing vessel For all intents and purposes, A.J. has a steady income, a house, and if times ever become tough, and he cannot afford food, the fishing house will provide him with some fish to fillet. AJ. came to Cape Cod eight years ago from Rhode Island. He is l>oth an admitted alcoholic and a sometimes heroin addict Ifhe.can afford to buy heroin, he will gladly forfeit food or other daily necessities to do so. Many mornings, he arrives at work too drugged to hold even a cup of coffee. His house on the beach is a whole in the san.d covered by a rotten wooden dory. Each night, he drags out of concealment his blankets and burrows like a frightened animal into the sand to pass the night. As he explains, it really is nice in the summer, when the weather is warm, the sand is warm, and the living is easy. During the winter, however, the weather is bitter cold, the water temperature drops to near freezing, and still he lives under that same boat, in that same hole. If he gets lucky, a con1passionate local will donate their van or station wagon as a makeshift tent, which at least keeps A.J. safe from the elements. Until ruled illegal under current zoning board laws, a compassionate summer resident opened his bouse to the needy and homeless of Provincetown as a winter shelter. In a town that offers no formal shelter. and is not even equipped with a donated food distribution system, this single act was heaven sent. Ironically. not too many people cared · to occupy the house. A.J. cared to occupy the house. A.J. himself went only on the coldest of nights, but still favored the beach and cars. Why he refused to accept this generous offer is a question that only he can answer. General speculation believes tbat he is too proud to accept this type of \Hand Out\. How can a man who admits to being a wasted product of a society he voluntarily dropped out of, accept the help of others? In a town where Alcoholics Anonymous meets 12 times a day, and drug rehabilitation centers are free, why wHl he not seek help for his problems? This is .the lifestyle he feels most comfortable in. It is more important not to look at his history for answers to his future, but rather his own future plans and ambitions. As most homeless people will pcint out, just because they are homeless does not mean they have no pride. If a middle class person, in a nice home with a caring family, has enough pride not to accept charity, why should a homeless person not do the same._ They are not worse, less moral or mentally unstable, they are just homeless. The homeless .problem in America is severe. First, the homeless have pride. They want to be separated from Society as much as any other minority group. They just want to be accepted for what they are. As A.J. will attest to, the plight of the homeless is amplified by the unsupported accusations of homeless advocates who do not know homeless people. These people claim that Society is to blame, and if the Government builds more shelters, and funnels more research money into the plight of the homeless, the problem will go away. A.J. does not agree. When given the choice of a shelter or . ' :, ,_,...... . ' ' ·: ' . ' .. . BARNARD COlUClE..COLGATE UNIVERSITY -CORNELL tJNIVERSITY. · 'HAMIL TON COU.EClE..MANHATTAN COLLEGE..ST.LAWIIENCE UNIVWilY •• UNION COllEGE . . \, '1JI}Q fE !PrEW !PmOCG!f!AM ON (U) N fD) rEin~ IRA liD QJJA lr~ ~CC 0 (EM <C IE [E[O) lU <CA'iTO<O~ Summer 1992 Student Research Opportunities A unique opportunity to gain research experience with ~ fac~l!y mentor and work with students from other colleges and uniVersities at one of the following institutions: • Barnard College • Hamilton College • Colgate University • Manhattan College • Cornell University • Saint Lawrence University • Union College 10 WEEK SUMMER PROGRAM $2.()00.00 STIPEND PLUS $500.00 TRAVEL/HOUSING EXPENSES FOR AN A.PPLICATION OR FOR FURTHER DETAILS, CONTACT YOUR INS'TI'fi.JTIONAL REPRESENTATIVE: Dean Terry Weiner X~233 Or call CORNELL UNIVERSITY 607G2SS-2710 · .BARNARD C()LLEGE..COLGATE UNIVEIISITY .. CORNELL UNIVERSITY HAMilTONCOLlEGE..M\NHAlTAN COLLECiE .. ST. LAWRENCE UNIVERSITY .. UNION COLLEGE his pe:r.~onal freedom, - he chooses lllle freedom of the beach. He does not want charity,. n<lr does he want someone looking over his shoufdex. He does not need a mother, a Iturse, or a guardian. He needs. him autonomy and freedom' of choice. If he chooses to die on a cold winter's night, under a wooden dory blll\iecl in a sand pit, then where <loe.s an advocate of homele:Ss rights gain the authority t() blame Society. Alth<>u~b the commercial fishing illdustry is not a glamo:vousjob, it is a job. A.J. is not h<Jnieless due to lack of money. He is also not homeless <lue to the lack of a home. IUs friends have apartments and places that he could always move into. Most importa11tly, A.J. only blames himself br being homeless. Society is not the cause of the honuless problem in America. T<>o many advocates from the t-eft .strongly argue that if more shelters and soup kitchens vere built, then the homeless could gain more pride, anlUbus help themselves recover. If this were a logical and acceptible argument, why do shelters in larger cities constantlrbave vacancies? Altlloujh Society is not to blame fe>r this moral and ethical pmblem. it will be up to Society to find a solution that is roth satisfactory to the advocates and the taxpayers, while helping to maintain the autonomy of people like A.J. Unfortunately, a cure for the homeless problem will never be reached. The homeless are too numerous, and the public too unforgiving for a true solution to ever be worked through. There are small ways, however, that each individual, can make a world of difference for people like A.J. Whenever a homeless person asks for money to buy food, chances are they will take the money and buy either drugs or alcohol. Instead of giving money, buy a hamburger for them, or a cup of soup. After a large party, donate the left overs to a local food bank, or invite a homeless person over for dinner. On cold days, donate blankets or discarded clothing to a local thrift shop. So called giving at the office or making a cash donation will not alleviate the problem, as upwards of eighty percent of these donated funds goes toward administrative costs. A.J. does not need money; he needs understanding and human support for his plans. Most importantly, the homeless are people. Whether believed to or not, they have both an obligation to, and a protection by, the same laws as the general population. In most cases, they are not different, and they are all not criminals. They don't need charity, but rather the basic cordialities every citizen of America deserves; the human touch. Psi-U Rush Function &ni- :formal g)i,nner Thursday, January 16 6:00pm Sigma Phi Dry Rush Function Monday, January 20, 1992 6:30 Food and Soda All are welcome!

Union Shock By Betsy Rothstein Concordiensis Staff Union shock can be defined as a mad, deranged unexplainable state of mind one experiences after returning to Union, after being away on a term abroad. Many people who have been away experience readjustment problems such as mental breakdowns, anti-social behavior, hysterical outbursts of crying as well as extreme irritability. All of this is .only temporary of course until the student is taken away by two men in white lab coats and involuntarily place in a straight jacket. Okay, so maybe I am exaggerating a little but the idea of Union shock is very real and something many people that have been away are presently experiencing or have endured in the past I believe that returning to Union after a term away is shocking mainly because you realize that there is a life outside the black steel fence that winds around the college to supposedly shield us from RESERVE all of the \undesirables\ on the loose. You return to the exact same typical Union scene where ·nothing ever changes. People ask you questions like \How was it? Was it amazing? Wait, where is it you were again? You mean you weren't here ~last term?\ The fact of the matter is that it is impossible to recap your ex,periences in a few sentences. I mean, do you really think Joe or Joanna Random wants to sit down for twelve hours and hear about your term abroad? Even though he or she really does not even want to know what classes you are taking or if you had a good break he or she always asks. People returning from a term abroad are in shock due to the fact that while they were away they learned how to think for themselves, they gained their independence, and they learned how to walk places by themselves (a very new concept at Union College). Being back at Union many students return to the grou:p mentality that plagues the campus. Instead of OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS CASH IN ON GOODr 1 GBIDES. If you~re a freshman or sophomore with good grades, apply now forathree-yeax or two-year scholarship. From Army ROTC. Army ROTC scholarships pay tuition, most books and fees, plus $100 per school month. They also pay off with leadership experience and officer credentials impressive to future employers. · ARMY ROTC THESfttiRTESTCOLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAlE. Visage The· HaiR St:udio Union Students $5.00 Off with Melissa & Hope Appts: 374-0351 Walk ins welcome-557 No1t St. Uti lOti LfiOtiDitO·MAT Open 7 Days q Week 8 am-9 pm Coming Soon Wash. Dry & Fold Service 561 rtott St. applying what they have learned abroad (such as their ind~pendence) they choose to complain about what Union is or is not, what it does not have, or what it should have. Union is definitely what you make ·Of it. As boring, une hanging and typical as it may seem at times, coming bac:k from a term away you have two choices: You can fight it and have a miserable time or you can adapt to it, remembering what you have experienced away, go crazy and have a great time. Well, you don• t have to .go crazy - that is up t<J you. When I returned to Union after being away for two terms I was a walking nightmare for the first two weeks of school when I suffered a slight case of Union shock. After being in MeJCico where everyone is tan all the time, I recall going to a fratemity party my first night back: (hiding in a corner of course because I did not want to see anyone) and thinking that everyone looked pale, sickly and disgusting. I just could not deal! So, I watched as all of these scary~ pale people progressively got wasted, smashed, trashed, lit, liquored; loaded, out of their globes (this is typical Union terminology depending of co\rrse on which fraternity you are in) and it was then that I ~ ' ! ~ • ; • • ~ t_ \ ' ' • •• - - .•• '.!. ,..;. .. ' l. - .. ' Stratton has a lower price for anyone pursuing realized that nothing had changed. I felt as though I had never left. After viewing several present and past Union shock victims I have heard many interesting responses to peoples' reactions of being back at Union after their term away. Hefc are some of them: With a crazed look in their eyes one girl told me that she oreaoeo commg back to umon. She felt very claustrophobic, and has acquired a nervous twitch upon . realizing immediately that nothing had changed. \Besides the fact that everyone thought I was a Freshman, one night, in a fraternity basement I was trying to keep a good composure but a friend told me I looked very sad, depressed and unhappy. I lost it - I ran out of there crying!\ Another girl revealed that she was at a party and wanted to go home but none of her roommates would give her a key. \I was stuck in a fraternity in .the verge of tears. No one would give me a key to my house so I yelled at someone and scared a few people away.\ Another victim confided that she was \at a crowded party and suddenly I burst into tears and ran out of the party. I tried to run home but was stopped by the.sirens of the Schenectady a higher education. $22 mid- week. $29 on weekends and holi- days. So you can save $10 any day and every day with a current college I. D. And you get 92 exciting trails, a 12-passenger gondola, plus all the extracurricular fun you can handle. Now, how's that for financial aid? ICl Stratton Corporation, :1991 Police. They asked me who I was running from. I said no one, I just wanted to go home. So, the police looked at me a little strangely, and drove me home, safe and sound. Needless to say I felt like a criminal being driven home home in police car will! lights flashing and sirens blaring.\ \I came to lunch and saw so much food I started to cry.\ \I reaiiy did not want to be here.\ \I avoided the college center for two weeks.\ \I fee'! like I've matured negatively in one week's time. I could be called regressed and adolescent. I would love to wear a button saying MY TERM WAS GREAT, THANKS! but of course buttons are queer so I can't do that. I can't say anything past IT WAS GREAT because . people lose interest fast.\ After listening to so many people talk about their Union shock experiences I have concluded that most people who return from a term abroad experience Union shock at some point of their readjustment phase. This shock usually takes place in a crowded barroom where suddenly the realization of being back at Union sets in and you temporarily lose your mind. Don't worry, you are complete_lynormal! ' • l . I ., VERMONT - .

The Prince Of Novel Or Movie? By Ned Walley Arts Editor As is oft to happen when converting a-novel to the silver screen, Pat Conroy's best seller The Prince of Tides, being no exception, loses quite a bit of it's original intrigue to tbe director-producer-star Barbra Streisand's whimsical interpretation. She did br,ing Conroy in to co-author tbe screenplay with Becky Johnson, but somehow aH tlle character's initial roles were either down-sized or eliminated altogether, except, of course, her's (surprised?). Nick Nolte played the South Carolinan high schoel football coach and English teacher, Tom Wingo. In the novel, Tom's twin sister, Savannah (Melinda Dillon), the nationally acclaimed poet, whose most recent suicide attempt was the catalyst for the story's existence, had her part reduced to almost vir·tually walk-on status by Streisand. All of Savannah's hellish nightmares, the majority .of her attempt to acquire .her dead friend's identity, previous attempts she made on her life, and much of her past as remembered by Tom on Dr. Lowenstein's (Streisand) leather sofa, was alil eliminated. So was the majority of Wingo's twin older :brother, Luke, who was murdered by the government while trying to save the family's island home. The glorious tale of the rescue of their hometown Colleton 's mascot white dolphin by the three Wingo children, and also the physical movement of Colleton up-river so the government could use tb.e land to build an installation, also fell under Streisand's axe. If the novel were produced in it's entirety for a movie, it might take up to five hours to view, which is altogether too long for your average moviegoer to handle. A much more thorough. job would have been done if it had been produced for a T.V. mini- series, but then viewing of this fascinating story would have been very limited. I do understand the difficulties of Shortening a storyline so it will fit neatly into a two hour money-maker, but I also feel that ju\St as five randomly picked articles from our Constitution would not be the entire Constitution, so neither should this movie be called The Price of Tides, because it is not. This movie still remains entertaining, but I still remain critical. Jews In, America The Albany Institute of History & Art presents a specialle.cture series \Jews in America: The Living Tradition\. This four-part series. which compliments the Albany Institute's traveling exhibition City Neighbors, explores serval aspects of American Jewish life and how many Jewish cultural traditions continue to thrive today. The lecture series is co-sponsored by the Albany Jewish Community Center. The series began on Sunday, January 12, with a presentation on \What Makes a Home A Haym: Thoughts on American Jewish Domestic Culture,\ and will continue on Sunday, January 26, at 2:00p.m. when Rabbi M. Mitchell Serels of Yeshiva University, New York, NY, will present \Ladino Culture and Language\. This lecture will trace the history of Spanish Jews starting with their eviction from Spain by YJng Ferdinand in 1492 and including the continued importance of their language, Ladino, (a Spanish dialect written in Hebrew characters), in maintaining the unique cultural heritage of Sephardic Jews. The lecture includes a screening of \La Espana J udia\ a 22-minute English language video depicting)ewisJ:llife .in Spain in the past and today. \The Development of a Stereotype: The Jewish Image in American Vaudeville\ by Henry S apoznik, Music Archivist at the YIVO Institute, Brooklyn, NY, is third in tbis series on Sunday, February 2 at 2:00 p.m. Using archival recordings, Mr. Sapoznik will ex.amine the influence of artists such as Fanny Brice, Al Jolson, and Irving Berlin on the development of stereotypes about their fellow Jews and other minorities. The perpetuation of these images through radio, television, and film will also be explored. Conc1uding the series on Sunday, February 23 at 2:00 p.m. will be Norman L. Campus Paperback Bestsellers 1. Scientific Progress Goes '\Bolnk by Bill Wattersoo. {Andrews & McMeel, $7.95.1 Latest Calvin & Hobbes cartoons. 2. Unnatural Selection, by Gary Larson. {Andrews, & McMeel, $7.95.) Collection of Far Side cartoons. 3. You Just Don't Understall<l, by Deborah Tannen. {Ballantine, $10.00.) How men and women can understand each other better. 4. Possession, by AS, Byalt (Vintage, $12.00.) The relalionship betWeen twb Victorian poets as seen by two British academics. 5. Seve11 Habits of Highly Effective People, by SteveFl R. Covey. {Fireside, $9.95.) Guide 1o personalluffillmenl G. The Plains of Passage, by Jean M. Auel (Bantam, $6.99.) Trekking across Europe during the ice age. 7. Jurassic Park, by Michael Crtchton. (Ballantine, $5.99.) A theme park's cloned dioosaurs are creating a world crisis .. 8. The Education of Little Tree, by F6rrest Carter. {Univ. of New Mex1co, $1 0.95.I•GJO\\ing up with the Cherokee way of life. 9. Alii Really Need to Know I Learned In Kindergarten, by Robert Fulghum. (Ivy, $5.95.)Uncanmon thoughts on comfliOillhlngs. 10. Four Past Midnight, by Stephen King. (Signet, $6.99.) Late-night hours filled wi1h horror and terror. New G Recommended AIX>'IONif-ot5nao_, Pem!<rOe_,,........., Pak.PA North of the Rio Grande, by Edward Simmen, Ed. (Mentor,$5.991 Umque ~nthoiOgy tocustng on the nch, varied Mexican-American expenence. A Dangerous Woman, by Mary McGarry Morris. {Pengutn, $1 0.00.) Martha Horgan ts dev~statingly honest which makes her painf\JIIy vulnerable to lhe thoughtless and deceitful ways of the people in her world. Filled with tnslghts mtotho crue~ies of small town life, it is a portrait of a woman who teeters on the edge of madness. The Henfield Prize, by John Birmingham, Laura Gilpin, Joseph F. McCrindle,.Eds .. {Wamer. $9.99.1 Award-winning fiction from Amenca·s best writmg programs Kleebau, Curator of Collections of The Jewish Museum, New York, NY, when he presents \Painting a Place in America: Jewish Artists in New York, 1900- 1945.\ In his lecture Dr. Kleebatt will discuss the appearance of the Jewish ~sts on the art scene. The emergence of these Jewish artists in New York coincided with the cultural explosion that transformed the American art world from an insular community into a center of avant-garde activity. Dr. Kleebatt will examine the works of Jewish painters and sculptors who. while in and embraced by the mainstream, expressed their connection to Jewish culture. Support for this lecture series has been provided by The Travelers Companies Foundation. Fees for Albany Institute members and JCC members are $12.00 for the series or $6.00 for single tickets. Fees for Non-members are $24.00 for the series or $7.00 for single tickets and for seniors and students with ID are $22.00 for the series, $6.50 for single tickets. Registration is suggested and can be made by call the Albany: Institute at (518) 463-4478. CONCORDIENSIS • JANUARY 16, 1992 • PAGE 14 HOK05COPE5 ~y !-OLL-1 LIBRA: Your luck may run ot:Jt soon. Don't get carried away with all the attention. You might want to save some for a later date. ·SCORPIO: The stars have chosen you to shine upon this month. The one thing that you are lacking in your life will now become a·realtty. I think you've waited long enough. SAGITTARI'US: All your friends are psyched to be with you. Don't let any squabbles become big deals. Your friendly personality will always prevail. CAPRICORN: HAPPY BIRTHDAY, CAPRICORNS! As the moon leaves your sign over the nex:t week, you will experience wonderful surprises. Take advantage ol these fun-filled moments! . AQUARIUS: This is going to be a great month for you. The winter blues and gloom will not even phase you. The winter will fly by you faster than you know, . PISCES: Your depression will end soon. The best cure for your 'down in the dumps\ mood is a new interest. Keep your eyes open .for possibimies. ARIES: This term has begun with a bang for you~ You have been able to step right into the swing of things. Don't get too emotional about tiny disturbances. TAURUS: Maybe your past expectations are not what you tt.lought they would :urn out to be. Don~t forget that special someone waiting in the wings for you. GEMINI: Express yourself cle~rly. Don't beat around the bush when you want to get a point across. People will listen to you if you are direct. CANCER: Do you ever feel that your life is like a rollercoaster in tile dark; you never know when there is a drop or a hill or even a sharp cur Je. I am optimistic that someone you least expect will take you off that •carnival ride'. LEO: Stay interested in family affairs this week. It could be rewarding for you. Family could be really important to you now. VIRGO: Long-distance trave• could be beneficial to you now. Some new \interactic:ns' could occur~ Campus Critics Say .... a five star line up GRAND CANYON \It was deep\ 5 STARS \Be prepared to talk all 11ight long about it afterwards!\ BUGSY 5 STARS \Action packed\ \Saw a lot of movies over break ... and this was by far the best!\ FATHER OF THE BRIDE 5 STARS \Awesome!\ \I'd marry that cutie in a second!\ \I laughed. I cried, I'd see it again and again ... \ BEAUTVANDTHEBEAST SSTARS \Not a wimp movie-guys should see it-the cartoon \Belle\ is almost as hot as The Little Mermaid, Ariel.\ \Disney's animator should be shot for what the beast looked like as a man-1 liked him better as a hairy beast!\ POETRY SOUGHT FOR BOOK General poetry is being accepted for the Western Poetry Association•s 1992 summer poetry book entitled \The American Poetry Round-Up\. Poets are invited to send one or two original poems of 30 lines or less on any subject. Send submissions to: Western .Poetry Association, P.O. Box 49445, Colorado Springs, CO. 80949•9445e The Western Poetry Association is currently publishing a poetry book entitled ~~voices of America\.

• JANUARY 16, 1992 • PAGE 15 Movies Through May Compiled by Ned Walley Co-Arts Editor Hollywood's products might seem entertaining, now, but take a look at what's coming up. \Grand Canyon, II the new drama by Lawrence Kasdan, creator of \The Big Ohil'l,\ stars (in alphabetical order) Danny Glover, Kevin Kline, Steve Martin, Mary McDonnell, Mary-Louise Parker and Alfre Woodard as big city dwellers grappling with the harsh realities of contemporary urban life and learning to recognize the small miracles around them. Kevin Kline stars as Mack, a Los Angeles resident who is becoming increasingly obsessed with the fragility of life. Mary McDonnell is Claire, Mack's wife, who is confronted with a turning point in her life. Danny Glover plays Simon, who comes to Mack's reseue and ends up changing his life for the better. Steve Martin is Davis, Mack's dose friend, a producer of ultra- violent movies. \Shining Through\ It's 1940. While Hitler is taking Europe. secretary Linda Voss (Melanie Griffith) is taking dictation. A half-Jewish working girl from Queens, New York, Linda might seem an unlikely figure to change the course of world events. But Linda has dreams as grand as her situation is modest. She knows she wasn't meant to spend her life clutching a Number 2 pencil. Her boss is Edward Leland (Michael Douglas),. a lawyer who has a suspicious way of disappearing for long periods of time. and whose correspondence is filled with peculiar references to \turnips\ and \sea birds.\ What is he really up to'? Linda thinks she knows. When his actual identity is revealed, Linda is led into a romance with her courageous boss ... and into Germany as an OSS operative working undercover inside the home of a high-ranking Nazi official. Love Potion #9 It's the ultimate fantasy of every lonely-hearted man and woman: a love potion, an elixir so potent that it has the power to make members of the opposite sex fall suddenly and deeply in love with you. Imagine the social implications if such an aphrodisiac were truly to exist. Inspired by the popular Leiber and Stoller tune \Love Potion #9,\ versatile screen writer Dale Launer, the creator of the hit comedies \Ruthless People\ and \Dirty Rotten Scoundrels~\ has crafted a plausible tale based on that novel concept. This Is My Life \This is My Life\ is a movie about dreams - and what happens when they come true. Dottie Ingels (Julie Kavner) is pursuing her dream of becoming a Sland-up comic, and along the way her daughters - sixteen-year-old Erica (Samantha Mathis) and ten-year-old Opal (Gaby Hoffmann) - must cope with their single mother's rise in the comedy world. Dottie's career starts to soar just as Erica and Opal begin to experience the traditional anxiety and heartbreak of adolescence, and Dottie is faced with the not-so- funny challenge of balancing her personal aspirations with her responsibility to her daughters. Back in the U.S.S.R. \Back in the U.S.S.R.\ a romantic adventure that will give audiences their first look at Moscow's criminal underworld,. follows a young American student as he becomes involved with a beautiful but mysterious Muscovite who guides him through a complex web of danger and adventure. FOR COLLEG-E Every student Is eligible for some type of financial aid regardless of grades or .parental Income. Financial Aid ·Available Immediately! Spt:cial grants program Every student eligible No one turned down Simple application Send n~ addr. ess and$1 P&H fee (refundable) to: Student Services P. 0. Box 224026 Hollywood, FL 330Z2 White Men Can't Jump Sidney Deane (Wesley Snipes)( may not be the first :man who ever hustled a game of pick:-up basketball, but he's one of the best. Sidney's in your face from the moment he hits the playground - a trash talking, bali handling legend of the local courts, his game is equal parts flash and attitude. Billy Hoyle (Woody HarTelson) is less talk and more action - a newcomer who has just drifted into town with a basketball under his arm and a few tricks up the sleeve of his bet-up leather jacket. He's not nearly as easygoing as he wants you to think. OR opposing sides, they have 'little in common. Together, they're a road map to easy· rnoney. When Deane and Hoyle decide to collaborate, they are exploiting the basic rule of playground basketball: \In choosing teams, never pick the w.hite guy.\ Written and directed by Ron Shelton, \White Men Can't Jump\ is a comedy-drama about the playground as an arena for ego clashes and territorial skirmishes, and its heroes' awkward struggle to understand the women in their lives. Filmed entirely on location in Los Angeles, the film is produced by Don Miller and David Lester. with Michele Rappaport as the executive producer. My Cousin Vinny Bill Gambini (Ralph Macchio) and Stan Rothenstein ~Mitchell Whitfield) are a coaple of 21-year-old college guys taking a cross-country r<>ad trek to UCLA via the back roads of the deep South. They should be having the time of 11Ieir lives, except for one small mishap: They are -wrongfully arrested in Wahzoo City, Alabama, for murdering a convenience store clerk. At best, they face long-term jail ~entences; at worst •.. the electric chair. Their only hope is legal representation from Bill's cousin Vinny (Joe Pesci), a Brooklyn lawyer who took six years to pass the bar and only made it six weeks ago. This is not only his first murder trial - it's his first case. Refusing help from his fiery Brooklyn girlfriend, Lisa (Marisa Tomei), the novice lawyer must wrestle with legal procedure in an alien environment under the intimidating eye of Chamberlain Haller (Fred Gwynne). a tough country judge with an obsession for the letter of the law and a powerful dislike for Vinny. FernGully: The Last Rainforest\ Based on a modern myth, \Fern Gully ... The Last Rainforest\ is a feature-length animated musical film in which fantasy meets reality inside the exp~nsive wonder of the great rainforest. \FernGully\ is ultimately a timeless celebration of life which underscores the fact that all·of the kingdoms of nature - humans, animals, plants - are interconnected and sacred. Within \FernGully's\ world of fantasy, there is a very real core: that the danger to the planet's rainforests threatens the web of life. \FemGully\ is the product of a collaboration between Australian and American fllmmakers and animators from almost every major animation studio in Hollywood. A group of the film makers and animators visited the subtropical rainforest on the Pacific coast of Australia to experience the beauty and magic of the region firsthand. The film features (in alphabetical order) the voices of Tim Curry, Samantha Mathis, Christian Slater, J onatb.an Ward, Robin Williams and Grace Zabriskie. Man Troable Jack Nicholson stars as Harry Home Made Theater to Present Of Mice and Men Saratoga's HOME MADE iHEA TER, in residence at the Spa Little Theater, Saratoga Spa State Park will present Of Mit:e and Men. John Steinbeck's world-wide classic .drama promises theater that will captivate, involve and :reflect a time in American l!istory that is very similar to today. Roving farmhands, vr orking under brutal conditions, struggle to survive and keep their dreams of <Jwning \their own place ~omeday. it Tragic but full of .iC R ll P ll.S H ll A R• CHAPLET SCOLDED ·R A V I 0 L I W A L L A C E EME.rpl£1j'cf;tlf''E•MAN ·E 0 NJ •• CTA N S I\~~· \II L U T E S D I !liT S A R I S T I D ·E S IIR F U. E V E N E_lR S 14 A RJI S P R 0. S T_lO 0 L E L lJA B I E R S S_lO N y TIN.BANDIED.FAR I! B 0 NrJ.Ifj D IT ll D E C A D E S S I E N N A S BROPES PLAGS. humor, the audience joins the characters in the powerful experience of Steinbeck's vision of America. Of Mice and Men opens January 31st for a three weekend run. Tickets are $14 and $12, with an optiona.t Dinner/flieater package with The Hall of Springs Restaurant for an additional $14 plus tax and gratuity. For additional information or reservations call HMT at 587-4427. Bliss, the down-on-his-luck owner of \The House of Bliss, II an attack dog business, who unwittingly falls in love with Joan Spruance, played by Ellen Barkin, when she seeks out his security seiVices. Before I Wake \Before I Wake,\ a P~Cnta Pictures production in association with A&M Films, is the dramatic, heartfelt story of a concerned moth cr's struggle to solve the mystery of her daughter's mystcrilous withdrawal into her own silent world. Kathleen Turner stars as the recently widowed Ruth Matthews, who strives to understand her daughter Sally's dilemma while fighting local authorities who want to t.ake the child away from her. Folks Meet the Aldridges, just one big, happy family, in Ted Kotcheff's new comC!dy \F0lks a Penta Pictures production. Jon Aldridge has been livrrng the perfect yuppie life. He ilas a great job on the Chicago Stock Exchange, a beautiful wife, two adorable kids and a dog named Sara - until a l~te­ night phone call from a Florida hospital turns it all arou11d. Within 48 hours, he's been framed for insider rrading, .his bank account is frozen, the FBI wants to talk to him, and l!is senile father and doting mother move in. The next thing Jon knows, his wife and kids have moved out, his sexy, greedy sister and her obnoxious kids have moved in, and mom and dad have come up with a crazy idea for solving everyone's problems_ .. Tom Selleck stars as successful Chicago commodities broker Jon Aldridge, whose luck sudde11ly takes a turn for the worse as he's drawn into the whirlwimd of financial crises that beset him and his parents. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. UNITED TO MAKE THE DREAM A REALITY The MARCH: Assemble on Jay Street side of City Hall at 2pm The PROGRAM: At Refreshing Spring Church of God, 327 Summit Ave., following the March, approx. 2:30pm SUNDAY, JANUARY 19, 1992 2-4pm

IPER§OI\IA.L§ Missing - small rotilld geld- wire prescription eyeglasses from KA Friday nigf;)t, These wilL be impossible tc replace as owHer is from Engl~nd and :>he suffers migraine b(l;;adaches vithout them. l'f you accidentally took thes~ glasses or have found them,. please rettun to KA or Secllrily. 'fo Concordiensis Starf, Hi Guys! How's every1hing in the newsroom? Botlt Jim and Pam tell me that all :is running smo0thly. I'm glad t<J hear it. Cotlld you try to get th is in t!Ie last Concordiensis (I hope H has made it in time)?' T'hanks a lot. J'U see you in Ja11u::1ry. J uli~ J en, Tricia, Julie a.nd Jear1ne, -Lara Greetings from Londo11: and good luck on your fin::1ls! I'm hning a great time here but miss hanging out with you. Get ready to make up for a missed term! To Two Dollar and Boc.:ket Cha:nge- Qulck, write this dow:~~: You're worth a zillion bucks to me! L()V>e, $5.99 To All the \.Missing Deltas\ - Welcome Back! We missed you all. Hope you have a great two terms. -The S,isters of Delta, Delta, Delta Starky, Here it is, your own personal: Roses are red, Violets are blue, Sugar is sweet, And I love you. Dave Laura, I'm having petting withdrawals, I miss Max so much, I don't know what to do. -Dave Hooba, My bartape may be overplayed, but I didn't hear you complaining when it was playi:lg in my bedroom. Just kiddhg. Solly, Yom gut brings back memories of the NCAA's, and spring break sophomore year. Beautiful. -Harold Rare Form- Learning the hard way, I'm a big girl now, leaf raker (life has made her bitter), I wanna be like Lisa, See ya at \The Garden.\ -Your Leader Sometimes I fell.out of place as_ a kid because my porents weren't divorced. To J etrt our leotard friend, Hope your \dreams\ come true at Oxford! Don't forget to bring a friend. Love P, A, D & H. Loui::e, Happy Birthday! You made it! Make it a great one. To the Sisters of Delta Gamma: Nikki Good Luck this week on Rush! Hope all goes well. Enjoy yourselves and most importantly have fun! The Sisters of Gamma Phi Beta To the Sisters of Sigma Delta Tau: We wish you a great and exciting .week of Rush! Get psyched for an eventful and fun week! The Sisters of Gamma Phi Beta To the Sisters of Delta~ Delta, Delta: It's that time of year! Hope everything goes well for you. We wish you good luck! The Sisters of Gamma Phi Beta, To Gamma Phi Beta: Keep your voices in tune. Next week will be here soon. Collette you're doing great. For Rush we can't wait! From Gamma Phi Beta Shirley, Tony, Jill, Jen, Danielle- UNION is fun & exciting! Hurry up and come here. -SARI collegiate cam.ouflage H I p 0 M s A R 0 G A H T y E H E R 0 D 0 T u s I 0 0 L s E A s u R u c I p E s A D s R A R I s T 0 p H A N E s E A T T c I D 0 N R 0 M E E D c A H M H c I 0 E 0 0 L H I L H (l E R I G 0 s z T u R p I N .E A 0 A M T N 0 c A, 0 I T E 1' s X c H E T y D E L R u E () .A I ~E R s D N s N 0 u s 0 tl R N 0 I I I E E I E E D A E E 0 R D p T z s X u s N E s M A E s 0 p u E 0 E A I s u 0 s u L v H c s E A T I N () H p 0 N E X L A p T Can you fi:nd the hidden Ancient Greeks? AESCHYLUS AESOP ANAXAGORAS ARCHIMEDES ARISTOPHANES ARISTOTLE DEMOSTIIENES DIONYSIUS EPICURUS PLATO EURIPIDES PLUTARCH HERACLITUS PY1HAGORAS HERODOTUS 1'HEOCRITUS HESIOD THUCYDIDES HIPPOCRATES TIMON HOMER XENOPHON PINDAR ZENO p p L u T A R c H p L A s I z THE ADVENTURES OF FLASH GORDON Clv\ON, BA~Y.I COME ANDGET IT/ Get your. hands on and get a Grasp on the Campus

I:LAS!iiFIED!i STUDENT OFF CAMPUS JOBS Look;ng for 2 students -Easy, challenging and excellent rewards. Please contact Lester @ 382-0441 for further information. Student interested in babysitting 1 child,. evenings 6:30-llPM, location off State St. Please contact . Phyl!is at 377-1591. Need someone immediately. Word processing, term papers, misceUaneous; reliable & reasonable. Call Meg @ 370-5332. Tbe Schenectady Day Nursery on Lafayette St. has immediate openings for Subs:itute Teachers & Teacher Aides. - Salary negotiable - Background experience with 3 to 5 year dds needed. Please contact the :personnel Chairman or Di!·ector@ 374-6319. If you W()uld like to run an ad regarding employment oppo::otunities, .please send ad along with 50 cents per ad per week to Concordiensis, Box No. 2577. He a tWa ve Vacations, Inc.- The only student owned, stud~nt managed Spring Break operator is looking for campus representatives. Earn free vacL:tions and the biggest paychecks in the industry. Call (800)-395-WAVE. Wanted: Sun & Party Hungry People! .! Spring Break: Cancun, Bahamas from $259.00 collegiate crossword @Edward Julius Collegiate CW87()4 ACROSS 44 Coffin stands 12 Angry outbursts 46 Well-known elec- 13 Law. wet land 1 - paper tronics company 14 Stupid 6 Cut 47 - ear 19 Grouped closely 11 String of beads 48 Exchanged words 22 ~ospital con- 13 Berated 50 Wide's partner va.lescence rooms 15 Italian foCid 51 Bowling ball 24 S11pporting .under- 16 \60 Minutes\ host materia 1 .garments 17 Linguistics suffix 53 Scholarly 26 Jiangs ten 18 Cotton cloth 55 Periods of time 28 ~ays of conducting 20 Part of BM()C 56 Brownish pigments '«lneself 21 Time periods. 57 Know the - 30 God of the sky 23 Tennis term 58 Gives a signal 31 Ike's initials 24 Slang for fires 33 Piano keys 25 The Flintstones' DOWN 34 ~uality pet, et al. 35 South American 27 Statement term 1 Polishing cloth river 2B·Baseball hail-of- 2 Old Italian capital 37---- nail farner. ---- Irvin 3 Prefix for gram or 38 M~$iG~l pieGes 29 Military gestures graph 39 Distributed 31 Soils 4 Drop into water 40 Forest inventory 32 Greek statesman ~ Lamprey fisherman 42 Ancient harps 34 Greek island 6 Like a snake 44 College in Maine 36 Leveling devices 7 Prison section 45 Type style 39 Baseball MlfP of 8 Building wing 48 -one's time 1961 9 Unyielding 49 Formal fight 40 - forma 10 Takes back, as a 52 Siesta 41 Piano seat statement 54 Short for Deoxy- 43 Mr. Kazan 11 Belief ribonucleic acid By Leigh Rubin 0 /-IS BASKEfBALL o\lFNOUTS I Even in this enlightened day and age, many are still subjected to the ugly reality of helgllt discrlmihation. includes roundtrip air, 7 nights hotel, parties, free admission and more! Organize a smaJ:l group. Earn free trip. 1-(800) BEACH IT. information call Advance Travel toll free 800~ 755-7996. \We guaralltee a memory of a \Spring Break '92 - Cancun, Mexico - Prices Hetime\ · from $299\ featuring the Oasis Cancun Hotel! ! ! Other lower priced hotels available. Guaranteed lowest prices on campus! ! For more info call Advance Travel ?.t 800-755-7996. Reservation lmes open from 9:00 AM - iO:OO PM Daily. \Spring Break 92, Prices from $Z99\ Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica, Carnival Cruises. Guaranteed lowest prices 0111 campus! Save $25.00 if you book by December 20, 1991. For more Spring Break '92 Jamaica from $439 Cancun from $429 Florida from $119 Travel free! Organize a small group. For info and reservations caH STS 1-800- 648-4849. u ·N·l·O· N· 1 S EEK FRIDAY, JANUARY 17 10 a.m.-3 p.m. College Center atrium. Marine Corps recruiting. 7,9 p.m. College Center 409. Bible study. 7 & 9 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \Re- garding Henry.\ 7:30p.m. College Center 302. Coffeehouse. SATURDAY, JANUAR:Y 18 1 p.m. Memorial Field House. Men's and W()men 's indoor track. 7 p.m. Memorial Chapel. The Museum/ C()llege Concert series presents the WuHan Trio. 7 & 9 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \Re- garding Henry.\ SUNDAY, JANUARY 19 7, 9 & 11 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \Regarding Henry.\ MONDAY, JANUARY 20 12.-15-1:30 p.m. Cellege Center. French con- versation table. 7:30p.m. College Center aud. Alpha PhiAl- pha and the Film Committee present \Eyes on the Prize.\ TUESDAY, JANUARY 21 11:30-1 p.m. Hale House. Faculty soup and beverage club. Noon-] :15 p.m. Ha)e House. Wellness pro- gram: \Injury Care and Prevention.\ 12:15-1 p.m. College Center. Chinese con- versation table. 3-4 p.m. Coll~ge Center 204. lHg Brothers/ Big Sisters 'Drop-In' meeting. 6 p-m. College Center 302. Crosstalk/ dramatic readings. 7:30p.m. College Center Aud. Alpha Phi Al- pha and the Film Committee :present \Eyes on the Prize.\ 8 p.m. Memorial Field House. Men's basketball vs. Utica. 8 p_m, College Center 302. Crosstalk: \Union's Budget: Where do Our$$$ Go?\ An open discussion of the CoTiege's f'mances. WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 22 12:15~1 :30 p.m. College Center. Gennan and Spanish conve=rsation tables. 3 p.m. Upper Class dining hall. Culinary Ex- pose. 7 p.m. Alumni Gym. Men's and women's swimming vs. Vassar. , 7:30p.m. College Center aud. Alpha Phi AI· pha and the Film Committee present .. Eyes Either Edgar was a blatant liar or he had a very poor grasp of aruttomy. 1·/G on the Prize.\ 8:30p.m. College Center 302. Film: \Truth or Dare.\ THURSDAY, JANUARY 23 11:3 0 a.m.. Memorial Chapel. The Minerva Hour presents the St. Cecilia Chamber Or- chestra. Noon-2 p.m. College Center. Chess table. 12:30-1:30 p.m. College Center 406. Investment Club meeting. 4:40p.m. SS104. The Biology Department and Biology Club present, Dr. H. William De trice, Northeastern University, speaking on \Cold Adaptation of Microtubule Assembly in Antarctic Fishes.\ 4:45p.m.. Butterfield 202. Geology Collo- quium: Jeff Tepper, Lafayette College, speaking on \Water and the Origin of Granite: An Example from the North Cascades, Washington State.\ 7 p.m. Memorial Field House. Women's basketball vs. Hamilton. 7:30p.m. College Center aud. Alpha Phi Alpha and the Film Committee present: \Eyes on the Prize.\ FRIDAY, JANUARY 24 12:15-1:30 p.m. College Center. German and Spanish conversation tables. 2.25 p.m. College Center aud. English film: \La Dolce Vita.\ 7 & 9 p.m. SS106. Film: \Dead Again.\ 7:30p.m. Arts Studio. Winter Concert series \World Music for Frame Drums & Flute.\ 7:30p.m. College Center aud. Alpha Phi Alpha and the Film Committee present \Eyes on the Prize.\ SATURDAY, JANUARY 25 Noon. Memorial Field House. Jayvee men's basketball vs. Albany. 2 p.m. Memorial Field House. Men's basketball vs. Kings Point. 4 p.m. Memorial Field House. Women's basketball vs. Binghamton. 7 p.m. Achilles Rink. Hockey vs. RPI. 7 & 9 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \Dead Again,\ SUNDAY, JANUARY 26 9 a.m. Memorial Field House. Men's and women's track. Union Invitational. 6 p.m. College Center 302. Super Bowl party. 7, 9 & 11 p.m. College Center·aud. Film: \Dead Again.\ \There's nothing like barbecue sauce to really bring out the flavor of the Ola West.\

I ' CROSSTALK Tuesday, January 21 8:00pm Cabaret Room CC 302 \UNION'S BUDGET: WHERE DO OUR$$$ GO'? An open discussion of the College's finances. Everyone welcome. VOLUNTEERS NEEDE:D The Reach Out Genter (ROC) of Big Brothers/Big Sisters needs student volunteers. ROC is an evening recreation and counseling pr,ogram for kids ages 7-17. Volunteers work one night per week (Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday) from 6-8:30 pm. Volunteers help with tutoring, sports, arts and crafts, field trips, ping pong etc. Student internships can be arranged-L~t us know your needs and interests. Please. call ROC at 374-4523 for more informatior and directions to ROC. (Car pooling can be arranged}. REAPPOINTMENT REVIEW FOR To be considered for financial aid, you need to APPl Yl PAT HANFORD Schaffer Library is conducting a faculty reappointment review for Pat Hanford, Acquisitions and Periodicals Librarian. All mem3ers of the Union College community familiar with her professional performance, scholarship, or college service are encouraged to send written comments to Professor David Gerhan, Public Services, Schaffer Library. Upperclass aid applic::ations are available through the Financial Aid Office in Becker Hall. To be considered for all financial aid programs, FAFs must be forwarded to CSS by March 1 , 1992. All other application materials are due to the .Financial Aid Office by April 15, 1992. SE:-:IORS Watch for information about ~ Unio'Vln College .,1'1 . r Career ' J Developmeru ';,.. .·;,...-;:.~.· Comer ICF KAISER wtll be on campus Fnday. February 14, to tnterview .for engmeenng posnions. They wtll be lookmg for '92 graduates \'lilt a BS or !viS m \1E. CE. and EE If you are inr<reSied. list them on your preference card U:'-<1.!!\1 CORPORATION 1s pamcr~ating in the R\'ume RefeiT:ll Program. Deadline for turning m resumes and rra.nscnpts w 1 11 be Thursday. January 30. a~ 5:00 pm. ! RECRUITING ADDITIONS ALL STUDENTS JEWISH COMMUNITY CENTER (CAMP KINGSWOOD) wlll be c??duct:U!g interviews Wednesday. January 29. If you are mterJ:.Sted · m a posmon wnh a summer camp. sign up for an interview bv Fridav , January, 24. • • · Fall '92 Resident Assistant Selection. Selection will begin in Feb. a£ttinf alzTev · The Writing Center has re-opened for Winter Term. • free help with all kinds of writing problems Further Ul.formanon can be found in the blue noa:bool::s lcx:ated in dlc Career Center Library. • friendly, knowledgeable tutors l-----------r-----------...&.----------.....------------1 • noappointmentnecessary Hours~· LADIES NIGHT OUT A celebratic·n of Feminine Art Mountebanks Dramatic Reading Series presents: A FEMINIST READING SATURDAY, JANUARY 18 8:00 pm in the Cabaret Room SIGN INDONESIAN CULINARY EXPOSE Wednesday, January 22, ,1.992 UPPERCLASS DINING 5:00pm UP featuring Che[YonrJ Pumomo from Yono's Restourarzt,.Aibany, NY, Capital District Central NY Chapter of the American Cu/inruy Federation's ChefrJjthe Year NOW! No Oiarge to Union College Students on the Meal Plan ~12 95 to Union College Community Sl5.95 for General Public Admissions Sagn Up .J8 hours til ;~dvance .at Dulch Hollow RestalUanr · 2 · 4 PM and 7 · 9 PM Uppercla.~'S or West D1mng Hall ·Lunch or Dtnner Times Dimng Service:~ Oificc · 8· 30 am - 5 00 pm Telephone. 371H>050 ME~lJ HOltS D'{)£1/VRES L:unb Sate Crabc.ies Pzl~u- Sh1uke ~ushrooms. Bamboo SbootiU1dSI'Junp Wo~ton SOUP Soto Mab.sar {Beef Stock vnth Lemon Grass. Seroed Wllh. Ric:( NcodlcsJ SALAD Gado-Gado (Shredded Mixed Vegetables. Toru. fbnl Boaled·Eggs .211d Tomato Served Mth PcanutS.aua:J ENTREE Daging~. (Brmed Beef \vithC«c1n1t MilkanciGb'!&~) Ayam Dakar BumbJ RuJak (Otic:~ 8re;L'lt with Blc:Dd <JfSplCeS trd Cbr-grilled) IWII'<pc< (Baby Salmot1 Wlth Sd'oodS111ffin!. Wrapped& .llil;cd U1 Banana Leal) DESSERT KotakPi.ung tBananas Fosml UNION COLLEGE Department of Biology The Biology Department and The Biology Club Present THE POTENTIAL of MOLECULAR GENETIC ANALYSIS: I. HIGH PERFORMANCE PLASTICS MADE WITH FUNGAL ENZYMES II. AMPLIFICATION of DNA FROM SOUTH AMERICAN MUMMIES Joe Salvo, General Electric Research Development January 16, 1992, 4:40 Social Sciences 104 Refreshments 4:30 Announcing EDUCAT[ONAL STUDIES PROGRAM INFORMATION MEETINGS Tuesday, January 21st Meetings at 9: 3() am; 11:30 am; and 1:00 pm in College Center Room 203 DO WE LIVE IN A RAPE CULTURE? MAKE A Women's Union presents a film Mondays through Fridays, ~2:00 to 4:30p.m. Sundays through Thursdays 7:00 to 10:00 p.m. · Location: Whitaker House, 2nd floor WOMEN'S UNION MEETING THURSDAY, JANUARY 16 AT 12:30 IN WOMEN'S CENTER-NORTH COLLEGE Awarded annually to students stuclying medicine or dentistry For academic year 1991?:-93. Award amounts: Up to $10,000 per year For scholarship application and information, write to: STATE EDUCATION DIFFERENCE ..... beco·me a teacher! ''Rape Culture\' on Thursday, January 16 at 7:30 pm in the College Center Auditoriu.m DEPARTMENT . .- .. Bureau of Professional Career ; Opportunity Programs . Room5C64 : Students who are considering careers in secondary school teaching for grades 7 7.12 in English; moder{.l or classic. larig~ages, marJlematics, s~ien~e:. ~~olo$y. chemisJiy, ~_ru-th sci¢nce, physics, u general science) ·ar£6cial studie~; shouid attend. tnfonnatiori will be given regarding the undergrrduate, gt$duate,. and five-year ,combined degree programs. NO CHARGE!~:.... .. <Z,ultur'at EduQafiori Genter ·': Albany; NewYo~k i-2230 Telephone: (518) 474-6394 ; Students wisbing.to sign-up, change or drop the mealplan f()r spring term should do so in the Dining Services Office, College Center Room 202; NO LATER THAN January 22, 1992. .. STUDENTS ALREADY ON THE MEALPIAN ~1LL BE BILLED AUTOMA11CALLY SPRING TERM FOR THE SAME MEALPI.A.N THh\'Y ARE PRESENTLY ON. REPERCUSSIONS OF THE PEl{SIAN GULF WAR: ONE YEAR LATER \Infant Mortality in Iraq\ by Dr. Timothy Cote, NJH. \Environmental Effects of Persian Gulf War: Where do yve g~ fro~. ~ere?\ by P~~er Timmerman, .co~v:enor of Working Group Envuonmental Irnplicatwlls. \Iraq: A Military Physician's Perspective\ by Dr. Patrick Caufield, Albany Medical College Family Practice. uHorizontal Proliferatior of Nuclear Weapons\ by Richard Shanebrook, Ph.D, Union College. Lectures to be followed oy a panel discussion. Saturday, January 18, 1992 6:00-9:()() pm Albany Medical College Room M.E. 1000 Sponsored by Physicians for Social Responsibility Capital District and the Albany Friends Meeting. . . '· ' - ..... ~ TODAY 16 January 1992, 4:00 pm Union College . Geo.logy_ ·-J)epartmen~ Colloquium: ~ . ~ ' j \Thermal history and vertical tectonics of * the;:.: soutber~ Ai.askin co~ved~'etil_ .marginy Thn Byrne · Brown Oniversity Dr.' 'B·yme ·wm discu~s ·the tec(onic evolution of· tile convergent mnrgin of sou(hem Alaska. He has spell~ several )11lars doing fieldwork on· the Kodiak l!iands wbe10 ne bas studied the early deformation· ~f m~langcs in the Ghost Rock.'! Formation. The Ghost Rocks Formation represents ·raCkl tbat were a~creted ·to _the Alaskan margin in the L.o.te Cretaceous to the early Tertiary. His tnlk will detail the structural geology. thermocbronology, uphft history and accretion bistory of. this area. Today, Butterfield Hall, Rm 201 'I p ,, .f ! :,. •J

,, u Jean Lopata Scores Career--High 20 Points in 70-54 Win Over Grinell by Dan Strum Sports Editor The women's basketball team took on Grinell, a team from Iowa, this past Saturday. With a good all-around effort Union walked away wjth a 70- 59 victory. The play of senior Jean Lopata was instrumental in ensuring the lady Dutchmen's success. With this win the women's basketball team raised its record to 5-4. For her outstanding achieve- ments during the past week, Jean Lopata has been named Concordiensis Sports Athlete Of The Week. Lopata, who hails from West Lebanon, NH, is a senior tri- captain on the team this year. S'he is a four-year letter winner in basketball. In addition, she is a four-year letter winner in field hockey and will round out her third four-year letter winning performance this SJ)ring with softball. In the game against Grinell, Lopata sllot 10 for 17 from the field. Iler twenty point performance was good enough for a career high. She also added eight rebounds, five assists, and two steals. La~t season was an up and down season for Lopata as she was set back by a knee injury. This year she has rebounded back in grand style. She is showing a vast improvement <Jver last season, and it is directly related to her being in great shape. This year Lopata bas a different attitude in her game. She is playing with g-reat confidence and it is displayed in , her shooting perfonnance. Lopata is one of the leaders of the Union women's ba.sketball team. \She is one of the most solid all-around players both offensively and defensively\ notes coach Joanne Little. She is e~trernely aggressive on defense and her versatility on the floor has been a great asset for Union in recent games. \She motivates others with her style of play\ says Little, \she is a good role model who can lead the younger players both on and offthe court\. Jean Lopata has been one of the keys to Union~s success throughout the entire season. In December, she was named to the All-tournament team in the Women's Capital District Basketball Tournament. She is looking to lead the lady Dutchmen to success for the remainder of the 1992 season. Once again, congratulations and continued success to Jean Lopata, Concord i ens is Sports f\thlete Of The Week. Union Hockey Knots Yale Continued from page 20 play. However, the highly skilled Yale team fought back once again to regain a tie and send it into the record books. Although Union gave up several leads throughout the course of the game, they had a lot to be proud about. One may never have predicted that Union would have these leads in the first place. Once again, Union sent a message to the other teams in the league that they are taking this inaugural season ex.trernely seriously. Although Union's record is not to sporty in the standings, no team of any caliber is going to be handed two points without a fight from this Dutchmen squad. FIJI Dry Rush Event Wednesday, Jonuary22 7-8:.30 ·P~M. H·ORS D'OEUVRES Come and Meet the Brothers of Phi Gamma Delta Saturday night Union faced off against Princeton. This was a team that Union had hoped to knock off, but it was not to be. Princeton came away with a hard fought 4-3 victory in front of their home fans. The Skating Dutchmen got themselves into a hole as they let 11p three first period goals. With time running out in the first period, freshman Matt Kelley sent Tim Cregan in on a breakaway. Cregan capitalized on the opportunity as he scored Union's first goal. In the second period, Menhall scoted a five on three powerplay goal on assists from Ferrero and Bill Railton. Railton was playing in his frrst game back from his one-game suspension. Flowers scored Union's third and final goal on assists by Clifford and freshman Chris Albert. Betweeu The )Jiuelines The Skating Dutchmen have ·· beell competitive in every. game this ~n.except for the ·Colgate .all~ :fo~eU weeke!ld. Uilioo has lost two games by 1 goal and ·three games by 2 goals (with one being an empty net· goat in the 7-S loss a-gainst Harvard). Craig Fen'CJO · 11ow has 126 career points which puts him in sole · possession of fifth place on Union's All-Time Scoring list. He has scored in 9 of 13 games for tile Dutchmen thus far this seas()n. Rick Clifford leads the team in ECAC scoring with four goals and seven assists for 11 points. Union has scored at least one goal in its last 105 consecutive games. Union looks for its first victory at Dartmouth this Friday night. The Big Green are 1-7 while Union is 0-9-1. NHL Mid-Season Awards by John Schachnovsky Associate Sports Editor The National Hockey League has reached the halfway point in its 1991-92 season. With this time .of the season come many things. For one thing it is a time in the season when sports fans, young and old reflect on the first half of the season, and argue with even more fire power than before on why their favorite team will be the team to beat in the second half of the regular season, culminating in a play-off joyride that is second only to the NCAA basketball tourna- ment in excitement. 011 th'is note I will now give out some mid-season awards to specific teams and players as the NHL season makes the tum into the second half of the season. MVP award: Kevin Stevens. Although he is second to magnificent Mario Lemieux for total points leader, Stevens day in and day out shows why the Pittsburgh penguins are still the elite offensive power in the NHL. The who would l1ave thought award: Wayne Gretzky and Mario Lemieux. Despite the Great One's father being stricken early in the season with a life-threatening ailment, he bounced back: in the latter of the first 40 games to prove that the NHL is still truly Wayne's World. On the other side of the league Mario Lemieux quieted, if only for the time being, all chiropractic hopefuls by beating his bad back and the rest of the league and grabbing first place on the points standings at the h<klf way mark. Impact of the year: Tttc acquisition of Mark Messier has brought the New York Rangers back to where they belong, contending for tile Patrick Division crown. The \injuries my man, injuries\ award: Boston Bruins. If it weren't for the loss of perennial goal scorers Dave Poulin, and Andy Brickley, and the fact that at the halfway mark Cam Neely had played in 8 games, the Bruins woul.d easily be challenging Montreal for the Adams crown. The return to realitJ' award: Hartford Whalers. After starting the season a.s possible Adams contenders, thee Whalers have received the wake-up call and have sputtered back into fourth place mediocrity. The double take award: The Smythe Division. Taking a look at the Smythe one need only take a· glance and see that the life and times of the division spell parity. Aside from the San Jose Sharks one need only tum the sports page upside down and it would not surprise the average hockey farn to sec the teams in opposite order then they arc now. The NHL season is stiln young. Almost any team can achieve play-off status, and surprises are guaranteed. The coming weeks and months will culminate in the play-off run that is sure to be as exciting as ever. Good luck to all fans and enjoy the second half of the season. 1NDII~I!D 1 !i Track lioe& At: It: Again by Tasha LaBare Concordiensis.Stoff And they're off! To Canalla - oops I. mean to Dartmouth! Despite the small numbeB and the eight hour trip to Daramoutb, the lady tracksters fared well at the Div. 1 Dartmouth Relays. Competing frrst for the lady Dutchmen was Alix Goldschmidt. Ali\ a senior, returning from term abroad, proved she has wltat it takes to compete with Olympic hopefuls. In the weight competition Alix threw and impressive distance of 34'4\. later in the day, Alix- once again strutted her stuff by lofting a great 36' 3/4\ in the shot put. Freshman, and still a rookie, Nadine Filosi, burned the track up with an impressive time of 9.84 sec. in the 55m. hurdles. later that day. Nadine hooked up with Junior Co-Captain Tasha LaBar-e to kick some butt in th~ 400m .. The girls toOk on a field of over 24 other .competitors. while placing third in their respective heats. The entire track team would like to give our new Asst. Coach a very warm welcome! Thanks for the help Coach. (AKA Aldo) This Saturday Union students, faculty, and innocent bystanders have the. distinct pleasure of coming and cheering on the Union Tracksters! Come cheer us on as we go head to head with NYU and Williams! P.S. To all of our walking wounded - please get better fast! ..

SCORE:BOARD HOCKEY Cornell8 Union 1 Colgate 8 Union 3 Union 5 Yale 5 (OT) Princeto'l 4 Union 3 MEN'S BASKETBALL Union 70 Haverford 67 Williams 98 Union 47 UNION INVY Union 81 Weslyan 73 NYU 77 Union 64 MEN'S SWIMMING UNION INVY 1st of 5 Williams 168 Uraion 75 Union 137 1/2 Hobart 1'05 1/2 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL Union 64 RPI 58 RPI47 Union 40 Smith 50 Union 40 WOMEN'S SWIMMING UNION INVY 1st of 5 Wiliams 149 Union 87 Union 145 William Smith 89 SPORTSWEEK THURSDAY, JANUARY 16 Men's Basketball vs. Alfred Women's Basketball ct Skidmore !FRIDAY, JANUARY 17 Hockey at Dar;tmouth SATURDAY, JANUARY18 Men's Basketball at Elmira Women's Basketball . 1t North Adams Men's and Women's Bwimming at Hartwick Men's and Women's Indoor Track vs. Hamilton, WHiiarr.s, NYU TUESDAY, JANUARY 21 Men's Basketball vs. Utica WEDNESDAY, JANUARV 22 Men's and Wom.en's Swimming vs. Vassar B:OO(H) 7:00{A) 7:30(A) 7:00(A) 2:00(A) 2:00(A) 1 :OO(H) 8:00(H) 7:00(H) <Hllltntrbirnsis JANUARY 16, 1992 Skating Dutchmen Earn First ECAC Point Tie Yale On Friday; Fall Short In Princeton 4-3 On Saturday by Dan Strum Sports Editor The Skating Dutchmen traveled to New Haven this past Friday to take on Yale. Union certainly was not looking past Yale to Saturday night's matchup with Princeton, a team of a noticeably lesser caliber. However, the prospect of gaining any points from the Elis was bleak as Yale was one of the leaders atop of the ECAC standings. Yale came in with an extremely high- powered offense as Union was set for its first-ever meeting with this formidable ivy league foe. The Dutchmen game phn was to simply play Union hockey and the rest would take care of itself. Union had a considerable rooting section as nearly 30() Union supporters were on hand to witness one of the most exciting games in Union history. The first period belonged to Union as they took Yale right out of the game. The Dutchmen employed a bruising style of play which This Week In: HOCKEY frustrated the smaller Yale forwards. At the end of the first period, Yale, the benefactor of a questionable goal, held a 1-0 lead. Union continued their impressive style of play in the second period. Yale was startled as they had not expected such resistance from this feisty first year club. With some hard work and determination, Union erased a 2-0 Yale lead and turned it into a 3-2 Dutchmen advantage. Flowers netted the first one on what was perhaps the most beautiful goal of the season. Rick Burchill carried the puck into the offensive zone. He passed cross-ice to Captain Rick Clifford. Clifford challenged the defenseman and then quickly fed Jayson Flowers who tucked it in on the doorstep. Craig Ferrero scored Union's second goal as he one-timed a rocket off a Clifford feed, tieing the score at 2-2. Less than two minutes later, Clifford started the attack again as he sent Ferrero in on a breakaway. Ferrero utilized some pre-game scouting reports as he made a quick Friday January 17 at Dartmouth 7:30 p.m. deke, and beat the Yale goalie through the five-hole to give Union its first lead at 3-2. Unfortunately Yale added a late goal to tie the game at 3-3. However, that could not dampen Union's spirits during the intermission. Union was charged up and determined to come away from the game with a positive achievement. Dalton Menhall scored an unassisted goal at 9:37 off a scramble in front to give Union the lead once again. This lead stood up until just over five minutes left to play in the game. The resilient Yale team tied up the score with some hard work in the corners. It seemed that Yale had the momentum and that Union's hopes were about to be dashed. Then, with the blink of an eye, Jeff Jiampetti sent Menhall in on a breakaway for a quality scoring opporttmity. Menhall, with the help of a spectacular move which he has \perfected\ over the past few games, slid the puck in on the backhand side to give Union the lead with just under five minutes to Continued on page 19 An Inside Look At Men's Track and Field by Peter Protzel Contributing Editor This past Sunday in Hanover, New Hampshire the men's Track and Field team began their season. This team is composed of many individaals who have spent long winter days training in order to attain a personal level of satisfaction. Track and Field is a sport of speed strength and endurance that takes time to mature. This meet is a stepping stone in the road to a successful season of competition. Listing the results is not a useful tool at this point in the season. More races are to be completed and much work is still to be done before results are meaningful. Since no results are presented this week I will attempt to introduce the non-runner to the basics of track training. The season for a track runner is long and energy consuming. At the beginning of each season the runner must adjust his training to his particular event. The 200 meter runner is thinking: \speed\, the 1500 M runner is thinking: \lots of miles\ and the 400 m runner is thinking: \do not die!\ Looking at adapted methods, one will see the necessity for distance runs in order to build a strong hase to last the entire year. For those athletes born with the gift of speed, you must remember that endurance is the advantage that will advance your training to its highest level. For these reasons the Track and Field athlete must train for prolonged periods of time throughout the entire year. This endurance and speed will manifest itself in the 800 Meter event where the runner must endure a fat pace the entire race. The distance training will help in the 400M because the last hundred meters are usually the most grueling and pivotal part of the race. For all those readers interested in track and field but never had the opportunity to watch, Saturday is your chance. The Union College track and field team will challenge New York University, Williams College, and Hamilton College. This rivalry will prove its worth in the heat of battle. Come watch the physically fit perform the simplest and most graceful sport known to man. WRITE FOR SPORTS SUPPORT UNION SPORTS HAVE A CREAM SODA

Founded at College 1877 . . ' . . . . . . . '. . . : . . . \ . ' . . ' . . ' . \ . . ' . . - . VOLUME CXXI, NUMBER 9 SCHENEC1ADY. NEW YORK JANUARY 23, 1992 Former Union College Student Convicted of Manslaughter by Jordan Lippner News Editor Twenty-one-year-old Daniel Doyle, a former English major at Union College, has recently been convicted of manslaughter. In what could prove to be a landmark case, Doyle and two other men responsible for the death of Julio Rivera, a gay bartender, were all found guilty of his murder and sentenced to meaningful prison terms . .Two of the other men, Erik Brown, 21, and Esat Bici, 19, were convicted of murder in the second degree, which carries a minimum sentence of 25 years in prison, with a maximum to life. Doyle was the focus of the case. Having plea bargained with the New York City District Attorney's office. Doyle agreed to plead guilty to first degree manslaughter, a lesser charge than murder, in exchange for his testimony which would incriminate Mr. Brown and Mr. Bici. The night in question was July 2, 1990. That night, at around 2 a.m., Doyle, Brown, and Bici had been drinking at Doyle's home in the Jackson Heights section of Queens. The three men were part of a group known as DMS, which has been said to stand for either Doc Marten's Skinheads. or Drugs, Money and Sex. The three consumed inebriating amounts of alcohol, then left Dole's house for the purpose of \looking for a gay man to beat\. From the house. Doyle had taken a kitchen knife, Bici a hammer, and Brown a wrench. Doyle and his friends headed for a 10 block vicinity in Jackson Heights which constituted a gay community, known in slang terms as Vaseline Alley. It was here that they sought out a victim; Julio Rivera was the first person they spotted. According to Mr. Doyle's courtroom testimony, this is what transpired that night: Erik Brown made a play for Mr. Rivera and lured him int<> the · dark and abandoned school yard of P.S. 69. Doyle, Bici, and Brown then cornered Rivera, subsequently attacking him. Erik Brown swung his wrench at Rivera, bashing him in the face a number of times, while Mr. Bici hit Julio Rivera eight times in the head with the hammer. The blows from Bici and Brown eventually made Rivera buckle over, which is when Dan Doyle fatally stabbed Rivera to death. As for Doyle, he will be spending at least the next 8 1/3 years of his life in prison. Doyle had attended Union College for two years. transferring from New York University after his freshman year. According to his adviser. Peter Heinegg, Professor of English, \Daniel was a zealous student. constantly pursuing him for further discussion of the work which he w::t~ studying.\ For Professor Heinegg, the whole incident seemed to be a case of \Heckle andJyde.\ The general consensus for students who knew Doyle seems to have been one of the tremendous shock and disbelief. Roger Hull, President of Union College, called the incident \obviously a tragedy. It is something I feel very sad about.\ When asked why the school did not issue a statement about the murder, Hull responded that \it was a judgment calf\ which revolved around facts such as when and where the incident took place, and if it made an impact on the lives of the student body. As well, President Hull felt that the College could not be responsible for the actions of its students and alumni while they are more than 200 miles 1 from Schenectady. Hull stated that he hopes tbat \people will learn to be m()re sensitive\ to differences which exist in society. As far as the College's involvement in the ordeal, the administration cooperated fully with the police. The NYPD had contacted the school in · October of 1991, informing the scbool of the circumstances and the warrant for Doyle's arrest. According to Dean Mammola, the school arranged for the police to meet with Doyle on campus when~ he was then arrested. Consequently, Dean Mammola mailed to Mr. Doyle a notice of expulsion pending the outcome of the trial. The police i11vestigation was ri<idled with mistakes, according to Matt Foreman, executive director of the New York City Gay and Lesbian Anti-Violence Project. \The p<>lice went to the spot where .t ulio was found by friends, but then subsequently failed to follow his traiL of blood back to the schoolyard. Thus the murder weapons were not .-ecovcrcd by lhe police umil a school janitor found the in the morning \ In addition, the police waited four months before they would classify Rivera's murder as a bias crime. However Mr. Foreman added that \there is no avenue to take to complain that the police are not doing their job right.\ Th.; official sentencing of Daniel Doy Ie, Erik Brow. and Esat Bici took place this past January 10, putting to end two years of legal battles for the gay community. The guilty verdicts which the court pronounced were the first of their kind. Matt Foreman called the decisicn \a great victory which will hopefully send a message.\ However Foreman also added that he has already been warned to expect a future response from OMS and other anti-gay gmups in the area. Apparently not everyone heard the message delivered by the court's decision. SADD Launches Shuttle Bus by Lee Metchick Contributing Editor For the past several weeks members of SADD have been selling passes for a shuttle bus. This bus will run on weekend nights between the hours of 8:00 PM and 3:00 AM. The bus will make two complete routes in the hour, following a timed schedule. The times at each pickup/dropoff will be the 1 same each hour and half hour. Tllis service nms differently than the escort service. Any number of men and women are allowed to ride the bus. Remember that the bus is on a schedule, and if you are waiting for a friend to come, the bus will leave witfuout you both. Tile bus will begin its route at · exactly 8:00 P'M leaving the : Fox/Davidson area. The final I • lap of the route wtll leave the same point at 2:30 AM. Unfortunately, the school is not helping fund this project. It is for this reason that SADD has needed to sell passes for the bus. These passes are $5.00 and are good for the entire term. SADD hopes that by showing the need for the bus, in the future the administration will help with the costs. Those interested in using the bus may Continued on page 2 In This Issue: Shuttle Bus To Begin On Campus -page3 Superstitions Around the World -page 8 Schach Talk -page 19

Remembering Mal-tin Luther ing by Alii Wapner Contributing Writer ride the bus. In 1955, Rosa Parks was forced to sit in the , · rear, \colored section\ of the ----------- bus. King was outraged by this A leader, an inspiration, the Father of the Civil Rights Movement These phrases have been used to describe one of the most influential political figures of the twentieth century, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. At his death, at age 39, Dr. King had changed local concerns of a small, black community into the subject of a national Civil Rights movement. Martin Luther King was born in Atlanta, Georgia on January 15, 1929. His education included attainme11t of a B.A. from Morehouse College, a degree in Divinity from Crozer Theological Seminary, and a PhD from Boston University. During his college years, Dr. King became acquainted with the practices of Gandhi and the theory of non- violence. These practices would later become synonymous with King's famous \sit ins\ and boycotts. After his marriage to Caretta Scott, King moved to Montgomery, Alabama where he served as minister of a local church King was brought into the public eye when he heard of a nearby controversy between the Montgomery Public Transportation System and a black female citizen trying to injustice and immediately formed a boycott of the city's transportation system. The committee elected King as their , leader. The minister received national attention for his efforts, especially from soon- to-be Democrat candidate for President, John F. Kennedy. King won his struggle for desegregation in Montgomery, the first of many successful battles in his short, but victorious life. King organized the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC) where he lectured about the problems of African Americans in their fight for equal rights. Dr. King joined other civil rights leaders to stage a March on Washington. On August 28, 1963 over 200,000 Americans gathered in front of the Lincoln Memorial to hear Dr. King's famous \I Have a Dream\ speech. One year later Congress passed the Civil Rights Act of 1964-. This act enforced desegregation of all public accommodations and outlawed discrimination of black owned public facilities. Shortly after the act was passed, King received the Nobel Peace Prize in Oslo. King's fight for equality was not only limited to the South. Dr. King staged several \sit ins\ in Chicago, Los Angeles, and New York City to eliminate segregation in urban housing. His final trip to Washington was in 1968 with. the Poor People's March to Washington. King was sidetracked in his journey to Memphi~s. Tennessee where he aided the striking sanitation workers. On April 4 King was killed at his motel by James Earl Ray, who is still serving his 99 year prison sente11ce. Today, 24 yeaTs after his death, Americans remember the man who did so much for the civil rights movement of the 1950s. Although his life was brief, his political career was full of success. Political activists whose achievements are so great in so short a lifetime are few and far between. In 1986 Congress declared Dr. King, Jr's Birthday a national holiday. While marty Americans think of this day merely as a day off of work, it is important to remember tb.e accomplishments Dr. King made in the fight for racial equality. He brought the struggle for African Americans on a world wide scale and remains one of the most poignant men in history. Assemblyman Announces 1992Summer Scholars Program Assemblyman Paul D. Tonko (D-105) today announced the New York State Assembly Intern Committee will sponsor a Summer Program at the State Capitol beginning in June. The Session Intern Program offers junior and senior undergraduate students a practical learning ~xperience in state government and the legislative process. Most colleges grant Session Interns a full semester of credit, as recommended by the Regents' National Program on Noncollegiate Sponsored Instruction. Applicants must be New York State residents at out-of-state colleges or attend a New York State College. The Assembly Intern Committee awards a $3,000 stipend to each Session Intem in the Summer Session Program. Application packets must be postmarked by March 16, 1992. Students must apply through their college liaison officer. For more information on the Assembly Intern Program contact: Assembly Intern Program, Room 104 A, Legislative Office Building, Albany, New York 12248 (518) 455-4704. Wo,men's Un:ion Sponsors Film -on Rape by David Levine Staff Writtr On Thursday January 16. before a dismal crowd in the· College Center Au.ditorium, the Women's Union showed a film entilled Rape Culture. The film attempted to explain the various reasons why the heinous crime of rape is committed. The movie combined the views of males in the group Prisoners Against Rape with the views of women who have insight as to why rape is committed. The half- hour movie was followed by a brief discussion which focused on tbe apathetic nature of the students and faculty towards rape education. The outdated movie attempted to dismantle stereotypes about women and rape that had been created by the media. The consensus opinion of the Prisoners Against Rape was that rape occurred not as rn uch as a result of sexual desire but as a result of a power struggle. As one interviewee said \ ... A man wants to put a stamp on a women.\ Other common stereotypes were that rape occurred in isolated incidents and that most rape cases involved black men raping white women. The first stereotype was dismantled using the statistic that eighty- five percent of young males could be considered sex offenders. The movie attempted to tear down tiJe second stereotype by offering the fact tiJat fifty-eight percent of women knew ~heir rapists. In most rapes both parties are on th.c same socio-economic level. As a result, only four percent of all rapes involve a black man raping a white women. The movie used old movie clippings to accentuate the stereotypes perpetuated by the media. In many of the clippings the \sexually abused\ WQmen appeared to have approved of the man's aggression. Moreover, the media has introduced the possibility that sometimes \no\ means \yes\. In other words, a woman may verbally object to having sex, when indeed she really wants it. One of the female interviewees pointed out that nobody wants to be raped. Rape, by <lefinition, involves the lack of a decision on the part of the party being violated. The discussion that ensued brought out the following inadequacies of the movie. Some of the infonnation given by the movie about rape is somewhat antiquated. Noticeably missing is a section on date rape. Date rape C()nstitutes too high a percentage of overall rape to be left out of the discussion. The movie did not include the possibility that substance abuse can affect sexual conduct. Also discussed was the apparent lack of support of rape education on the campus. As one student put it. \If you want to see the administration applauding something, go to a hockey game.\ WRITE FOR NEWS!! Call Matt at X4153 or Lara at X4208 Watch for information about Fall '92 Resident Assistant Selection. Selection will llegin in Feb. .i •,: ~' j '. j

~' / . . . L Students To Be Charged ForCias:s Handouts by Alii Wapner Contributing Writer Several departments on campus, including Modern Languages and English, have just instituted a new policy which will require students to pay ;f()r photocopies handed out in class. According to President Hull, the policy is \not an ad minis trati ve decision.\ Professor Anton Warde, chair of tile Modern Languages Dep!lrtment, said the policy will be enforced \to cover costs\ -and is \not for profit.\ Students will be charged five cents for every page of a handcmt they receive in class. W arcle claimed that professors are going to be selective in choosing which handouts they require students to be charged. The handouts will consist only of poems and shorts stories which are not readily available through the bookstore. \It is legally dangerous to photocopy a book and sell the copies for a lower Write for Concordiensis News Apply Today For More. Information· Call Lara x4208 or Jim x4151 price than a retail store would.~\ Warde said. Because only small sections of texts will be handed out in class, eac:h student will be charged only about \three tc five dollars.\ When asked why professors do not simply put the required Feadings on reserve, Profess()r Warde stated that the decision was made in c<Jonsideration <Jf students' convenience. Th..e copies will be given t() students in class so they will not have to go to the Union College bookstore or an off- campus location. This wiU save students time and money. In addition, students are guaranteed to receive a copy M the required readjngs. This is tG avoid the frustration .of gain~ to the library only to find thatt other students have alread~ taken the reserved readings. Though the 11ew policy i~ controversial students will have the convenience of receiving copies handed out in class. Due to budget cutbacks, however, the convenience must come at a cost. Shuttle Bus Begins Continued from page· l purchase a pass from any SADD member or iiL the student activities office (CC 408). No one will be al!tcwed to ride the bus without a. pass . and a Union ID. The bus covers all o f the , areas both on and off c~rnpus~ stopping by the majority of the fraternities and sororitie.s~ Any damage or destruction of the bus will result in immediate conduct charges and loss of bus privileges. If the damage to the bus is severe, service will be terminated. In addition, no alcohol will be allowed on the bus. SADD hopes that the shuttle service will be widely used and will help prevent both security problems and people drinking and driving. SADD SADD SHUTTLE BUS SCHEDULE PICK-UP/DROP OFF ON THE HOUR FOX-DAVIDSON PSI U-CHI PSI-KA SMITH-AD-SIG-PIH FOX-DAVIDSON LDI' (stairs) WEST SEWARD . RICHMOND-NORTH CARRIE ST-HATIIE ST. VAN VRANKEN-HA\'TIE ST. 00-SDT GAMMAPIDBETA DPHI PIDDELT UNIVERSITY AVE_ PARK AVE. Gll. . .LESPI AVE. OOILEGECENIFR 8:00 PM 8:03 8:04 8:07 8:09 8: 10 8: 12 8:14 8: 16 8: 16 8: 17 8: 18 8:20 8:22 8:24 8:27 ON THE HALF HOUR 8:30 PM 8:3 3 8:34 8:3 7 8:3 9 8:40 8:42 8:44 8:46 8:46 8:4 7 8:48 8:50 8:52 8:54 8:57 thanks all of the clubs and org;.mizations for their donations. Without any of their help this project would not be possible. lf you have any questions regarding the shuttle blls please feel free to contact any of the members of SADD including the co-chainnen (AUison King and Lee Metchick). EDUCATION FOR lliE REAL WORlD Graduare degree programs (MA 1 Ph.D) m International Affaus witli an emphasis on ~ontemporary policy-relevant JSSUes. Area and Fo.nctlonal Fields: 0 Interamerican Studies (U.S.-Lalin A.me:ican Relations) 0 Soviet and East Europoe:m Studies 0 .~!iddle East Studies 0 International Relations 0 International Bush'1tss Management 0 International Security and Conflict 0 Comparative Development 0 [ntemational Economies Apply by February 1 for assistantships and other fmanci21 aid North• South Center DJl11.lJl1't or 11••• Students who are inlcrc:sted in lnterune::ritan issUes are pzfieularly encour.~ged to apply for NCJ!Ill.Sooth Cen!er Gr.~dllale Assistartships.. GRADUATE SCHOOL OF Il'11ERNATIONAL SllJDIES Admissions, Room 1 38Z Coral Gables. FL 33124-3010 (305) 2844173 GET INVOLVED TODAY!

by Jim Polites News Editor The observance · of Martin Luther King Jr.'s birthday this week does much to evolie sights, feelings, and memori.es of years past. The historic Supreme C.ourt ruling of Brown versus Boa:.rd of Education-Topeka {1954),.a landmark decision that pushed to desegregate schools thai!. for too long had been deemed as 'separate but equal'. The Montgomery b11s boycott (initiated by R.o sa Parks) of 1955, wl!icll highlighted not only tile undeniable courage of a single woman, but the resistant:e~ strength, and persistence 0f~11 oppressed people who strugglcl ferociously for equal rights. Then there were the o lller widespread displays of pas:Si-ve civil resistence in the South, where African-Americ:a11s would sit-in on exclusiv~ly white food counters until they were forced away and/l()r arrested. Finally, there's the ultim11.te symbol of the civil rights er-a: 250,000 people, Washing t~n ~ D.C., August 28, 1963 - Dr. King delivering his O()W famous \I Have A Dream\ speech to a mesmerized audience and nation. Of course. these events cannot progress beyond the realm of imagination, textbooks, and second-hand accounts for most of us on campus today- the tumultaous social upheaval of the late .50's and 60's will forever remain as a generation gone by. Without question, the civil rights movement accomplished great strides in the United States - as the passion of African-Americans successfully withered the foundation of I white racist supremacy in s11ch Deep South states as Alabama and Mississippi. While the plight, battle, and . subsequent social gains (like the 13th, 14th, and 15th . Amendments) of the African- American were surely a study in undying spirit and determination, the manner in which these goals were attained was truly remarkable. Anned with the teachings of Gandhi, Dr. King forged plans to create turmoil in Alabama (especially) through nonviolent means - a doctrine that was both hailed and criticized. Knowing his people wouldn't be served at all-white lunch counters, King recruited volunteers who would crowd available seats at strategically opportune times - like the Easter shopping season of 1963. Did the white owners rescind, realizing that economic hardship was a stiff price to pay for blatant racism? In almost all cases the answer is an emphatic - and sad - 'no'. The African-American masses who so givingly volunteered their time and effort were the unimpassioned backbone of this glorious social revolution. While King was the charismatic and visible head, his ideals would have been holl()w if not for this faithful following. The African-American was a testament to the stoicism and desire Dr. King continually preached. Demonstrators were consistently manhandled and abused by authorities whose chief concern was to maintain an oppressed, hierarchical status quo. To their credit, through all of the bogus local legislation and trumped up criminal charges, African-Americans allowed themselves to be escorted to jail without resistence. Now that was ingenious- for you can be sure those IS • JANUARY 23, 1992 • PAGE 4 policemen were looking for the slightest provocation to act physically (and in many cases did so anyway). Tragically, the glorious p-rogress that Dr. King spearheaded took a fatal tum when he fell to an assassin's bullet, that of James Earl Ray, in Memphis, Tennessee. Today, even with the fresh memories of civil rights, our banner here in America of ·, living amidst equality and • without discrimination is both hollowed and tainted. For instance, who can forget the brutal videotaped beating of a black civilian by Los Angeles police last year? Despite the calming remarks of city officials, it was an ineident . that will live in local and national infamy for years to come. In yet another episode - this one in November, the Louisiana gubernatorial race produced the now-reknown David Duke- a candidate whose platform revolved amund lightly veiled racist .sentiment. Perhaps most disturbingly, Mr. Duke tapped an electorate that seemed more than willing to respond to rhetoric that persecuted minorities for dominating welfare and other redistributive benefits. Lastly, I just recently read of an incident in Atlanta where a 12-year old black boy - while waiting for a school bus - was attacked by a band of white kids and covered .with white paint (one of a dozen race- influenced problems in the area in the last three weeks). To perpetrate such a scathing act, with so many racial overtones, .certainly belied the collective age of these hoodlums. It's something you hear about and shake your head - the fact that we are placing the future of America in corrupt hands such as these is an uncomfortable, even horrifying. prospect. I fear, above all, that these recent episodes of racism are harbingers of things to come. For while universal equality is within reach ~ there's a lingering foundation of discrimination tllat sadly remains entrenched in our society. The birth of Martin Luther King Jr. is no doubt reason to celebrate, reflect~ reminisce. and reevaluate. We've all heard our parents say they remember exactly where they were when Dr. King was shot and killed. Maybe it's time we all started to think of where we'd be if he hadn't. David Duke and Daniel Doyle: by Jordan Lippner News Editor Nazism. Fascism. Race supremacy. These are idle~s which supposedly could never blossom in this democr;atic nation of ours. However clo:se to 40% of the American pu olic polled during World Wu U believed that our governineillt should have instituted laV~Vs similar to the Nuremb urg Decrees. Five decades later, having experienced the Civil Rights movement and the Women's Rights moveme11.t, those sentiments have clearlly resurfaced, as demonstrated by Mr. Duke and Mr. Doyle. This past November 1,(5, 39% of those who voted in the state of Louisiana deemed David Duke fit to be tildr state's governor, casting their vote for the self-proclaim~d born-again Christian. While publications such as T h· e New York Times bran<le d Edwin Edwards victory o\'Ver Duke a landslide, the impact of his presence should not lJ;e brushed aside so quiclcly. Duke, the (ex)-nazi and (e:x)· Klu Klux Klan memlrer, · received nationwide support, practically 40% of the total vote, and a majority of tile Hatred In America white vote (55%). Four out of ten voters supported a man whose most significant influence on his life, and childhood idle, was Adolph Hitler. Duke is a person who studied the German language while at LSU, for the purpose of reading Hitler's Mein Kampf in its original edition; a man I who publicly stated that \Jews· probably deserve to go into the ash bin of history.\ Duke's glorious past includes his annual celebration of Hitler's 1 birthday, his appointment as Grand Wizard of the KKK, the founding of the National Association for the Advance- ment of White People, as well as his active participation in the (Rightist) Institute for Historical Review which exhausts energy trying to disprove the Holocaust David Duke preaches Hate Politics, a master in the art of · euphemistic language. He has 1 claimed that he is no longer a Nazi and that his involvement was a boyhood flirtation. Of course, one is then left to wonder why was he taking promotional pictures with the Vice-Chairman of the; American Nazi party in 1989? · Duke has fooled no one, and that is why his 39% showing is so alarming. Michael DeBeck sent Duke money, declaring tb.at \White people are not being given a fair shake these days.\ Gerard Nadeau .of Massachusetts contributed to Duke's campaign. He reasoned \the Republicans take care of the rich, tbe Democrats take care of the blacks, and David Duke takes care of the whites.\ Duke supporters know all too well that he is still a race supremacist. This blatant acknowledgement and acceptance of Duke's racist ideology_ is exactly what they find appealing about him, which in turn, is the very reason why Americans everywhere, should be concerned. A major component of the white supremacist plan is the purification ()f society which of course include the purging of all homosexuals. This brings me to the death of Julio Rivera, a gay bartender who was murdered by Daniel Doyle. the former Union student. Doyle had come to Union in his sophomore year, transferring from New York University. He was not that different from most of us, accept for possibly the eagerness which he displayed in his studies and his membership in a gang in Jackson Heights. Neither of these facts though make a person a murderer. Yet on July 2, 1990, Doyle, along with two friends went out in the words of Doyle \to beat some people up, stretch some people out.\ Doyle later stated that he had murdered Mr. Rivera \because he was gay.\ So what made Doyle take another person's life? Doyle · have provided little support for the gay community. Judges have treated gay-bashing cases as unimportant and unworthy of equal treatment. The police react in a similar manner as was seen in the Julio Rivera murder where they refused to investigate i.he incident for fo!.lr months. was described as \very smart, American s 0 c i e t y very sweet, very committed to perpetuates homophobia and his work,\ by his former .. the negative stereotyping of English adviser, Professor gays. American leaders have Peter Heinegg. Was he done nothing to combat this as homophobic? That Doyle's is evidenced by the 46 states anointed victim had to be a gay who provide no legal support man certainly demonstrates a for their respective gay tremendous intolerance for communities. As well, on a what is merely a personal smaller scale, all one needs to choice. do is look at that Union However Dan Doyle is no! College Administration, who the issue. Gay bashing is instead of condemning Daniel prevalent throughout American Doyle, did their best to keep society. Just this past Monday, the incident quiet. Henry Marquez, a United States Customs inspector was Daniel Doyle and David murdered because his assailant Duke. These two men, when believed him to be gay. Only taken together, add up to four states, Connecticut, significantly more titan just an Massachusetts, Wisconsin, and alliterative title. While Hawaii, have added sexual thankfully they are not orientation to their laws representative of American barring discrimination on the society as a whole, they basis of race, sex, or creed. A certainly illustrate inexplicably similar law, approved by the the enormous hate which is California state legislature, was permeating throughout this vetoed recently by its Oovemor country. Perhaps it is time we Pete Wilson. as a society, dealt with this Furthennore, past court cases hate.

a g e • CONCORDIENSIS • JANUARY23, 1992 • PAGE 5 hands on and get a Grasp 1il.e Campus WRITE FOR ., ' I Nati<>nal Center for Communication Studies IN CON)UNCITONWI\lli The G-raduate School of Political Management invites qualified college juniors and seniors to apply to the summer Institute in National Campaign Politics june 1 -july 24, 1992 • Exploret.he evolution of the presidential nomination process • Attend seminars with party leaders, political consultants, campaign managers and political journalists • Enrich internship experiences through academic study • Receive 6 college credits in Political Communication • Live on GW's campus with selected group of future campaign managers/leaders Application Deadline, February 15, 1992. For additional information and application u'Tite or call: The George Washington University Office of Summer Sessions 2121 Eye Street, N. W. Rice Hall Suite 503 Washington, DC 20052 (202)994-6360 COMEDY NIGHT BOSTON'S' OWN FUNNY MAN BILL CAMBELL CONCORDY Rl!SH Bi I I has opened for:Ooc Severson, Jones Taylor And has played at Nick's [onedy Stop in Boston Monday, Jon. 27, 8:00 pn nnd Dongerflelds in New York Food and Refreshments will be served at 8:00 I.E.F. DEADLINE \The deadline for proposals for the Internal Education Foundation in two categories 0 studentoinitiated research projects and \educationally innovative projects\ is February 14, 1992. Proposals for student-initiated research projects must have written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals. should be submitted to the Dean's Office (SlOO, Science & Engineering Building) on forms available here. Similarly, members of tht College community who have \educationally innovative\ proposals should ;ubmit then to the same office on forms available there. Forms for Faculty ResearcL Projects are also available in the Dean's Office (S 100). Guidelines with respect to the I.E. F. are available in the Dean's Office. Jnquities about I.E.F., the guidelines, or the proposal deadline should be directed to Margaret Dalton, Administrath·e Assistant to the Associate Dean. \When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $50-85 per day. Transportation costs should also reflect the best rates available. Students who are planning to do interviews must indicate that arrangements h:~ve already been made. If. your research includes work with human subjects, then the proposal must have preliminary approval from the Human Subjects Research Committee before it can be furded by the Subcouncil in Undergraduate Research. ~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~~*~·~·~~·~·~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~M*~*~* FACULTY RESEARCH DEADLINE The Faculty Development Committee is now so1iciting proposals tor faculty research and scholarship activities. Applications and guidelines are a.vailable in Dean Weiner's Office (S-100, S&E). The deadline for submission of pmposaJs is February 14, 1992. Questions concerning the f'<tculty Research Fund should be directed to Dean Weiner. When preparing bl•.dgets, please remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $50-85 per day. Transportation should also reflect the best rates available. If your research includes human subjects, then the proposals must have preliminary approval from the Human Subjects Research Committee before it can be funded by the Faculty Deve· opment Committee. .PATE 1/1 3/92 1/13/92 . l/14/92 1/1 5/92 l/1 6/92 1/1 6/92 1/1 7/92 1/1 7/92 1/1 7192 Campus Incident Report LOCATION INCIDENT t\1. Ierrace La. Verbal Harassment-non students toward students, Eo:x Lobby Theft of soda from vending machine. 4 Richmond Mjssjng Eguipment. Richmond Road Road Closed-Icing Condition. Arts Bldg, Chemical Odor, Archives Sus~jcjous Person. Steinmetz Lock core missing, South Co_llega Vandalism-Washers & Dryers, West CoL Lot Vandalism-Eggs thrown on students cars. 111 7/92 , ,.l;PJ:..l:ai!:..l.y.:.:i d=..:.s~o.u.n __ ...~F~a~ill.loiu:J.,;lre~to~pw.ro~d~u!£ce~p~ro~p~§~.~..r...!.l.:..!:o.DJ!.o.. _ 1/1 8/92 Pavjdson Lewd Conduct-student .111 8/92 Alexander Eld, Vandalism-Vehicle driven the field causing ruts, 1/1 8/92 Fox House Trespass-Solicitor. 1 /1 8/92 AlelCander Fld, Prank-Staff member's vehicle pushed onto field. 1/1 9/92 Richmond Vandalism-windows broken, j/19/92 West Basement Suspected illegal substance abUSE;),

DON'T WANT TO FACE THOSE SCHENECTADY WINTERS? DUTCH HOLLOW WILL NOW DEL][VJ&R HOT PIZZA TO YOUR DOOR!! CHECK OUT THIS PRICE 8-CUT 16\ CHEESE PIZZA ONLY $5.75 MONTHRU FRI- 4 PM -1 AM SAT AND SUN·- 5 PM- 1 AM B~ltN~~D· C~LtEGE .. COLCATE ~N-IV~~i~~\t~~~~t'ti~·~~~RsiTY . . HAMILTON COLLEGE.;MANHATTAN COLLEGE..ST. LAWRENCE UNIVERSI1Y •• UNION COLLEGE .. . ·- ... -/ . - · · . - -~- .... :.;·-~~- .. ~~i~h::\~-~~:~~t.r~;:;\J.i~·:.- TI lHllE lPlEW IPIR <O><G lAM UN lU ~ fD.>IEIRCG~A[)J)llJJA Trf ~CC:U lENttlE fEI]J)!U~A YO·© M Summer 1992 Student :Research Opportunities A unique opportunity to gain research e:x.perience with a faclllt)' mentor and work with students from other colleges .and universities at one of the following institutions: • Barnard College • Hamilton College • Colgate University • Manhattan College • Cornell University • Saint Lawrence University • Union College 10 WEEK SUMMER PROGRAM $2,000.00 STIPEND PLUS $500.()0 TRAVEL/HOUSING EXPENSES FOR AN APPLICATION OR FOR FURTHER DETAILS, CONTACT YOUR INSTITUTIONAL REPRESENTATIVE: Dean Terry Weiner X6233 Or call CORNELL UNIVERSITY 607-255-2710 BARNARD COUEGE •• COLGATE UNIVERSITY \CORNRL UNIVERSITY HAMil TON COLlEGE .. MANHATTAN COLLEGE •. ST. LAWRENCE UNIVERSITY •• UNION COLLEGE elcome Back Students From Your Friends At HOURS: Sunday-Thursday 11 m-1 am; Friday, Saturday 11 am-2 am EAT IN --TAKE OUT FREE DELIVERY $7 00 minimum, 49¢ maximum charg~ 370-3928 :s ------- ----- ------ Save I I $1.00 ~s 1..:-- ON YOUR NEXT PURCHASE ------- ------- -- - -. s. I I I s: --

Improve Yourself Take The Japanese Experience by Jordan D. Matsudaira Contributing Writer Do they have .si:lverware? Were they all shorter than you? Do they all have mistresses? Do they all walk around with cameras? Do they live in houses like the ones in Black Rain? Are they all rich? Are they all really smart? Do they all study all the time? Do they hate Americans who can't speak English? Did they fawn over you because you were American? Are they superhuman workers? Do they party? Do they have basketball there? Then do they have the rims shorter? Are they all conformists? Are they friendly? Since coming back from the Union term abroad in Japan, I have fielded the above questions, and many more about \them\, a.k.a. the individuals that populate Japan. And through such, I have become paip.fully aware of the endless scores of \our\ misconceptions about the Japanese peoples. It has been a painful awakening only in the sense that these misconcep- tions could be so easily erased if only more people could s:pend time in Japan, learning of the people and tbeir culture, as you have the opportunity to do in the Union term abroad, which has its base in the very cradle of Japanese civilization. However, I do not wish merely to stress this notion of a need for you to go to Japan, but would also suggest that you should want to go to Japan. For perhaps more than any other program, the term in Kansai Gaidai has the potential to become a truly beautiful experience for discovering and bettering your own self. 0. K., so you've read the last ten words and become a little queasy- you're stomach doesn•t agree with such blatant and sappy cliche. But be calmed, I'll give it to you straight first for all those of exceedingly weak constitution. The United States and Japan of today are the world's greatest and most dangerous opponents. Between the two of these unequalled equals is originated and dispersed more than three quarters of the world's technology. We, meaning both the United States and i11deed the entire world, simply cannot afford to let anytlling, for ex:ample Japan bashing related to the auto industry (a la Lee Iacoca), to hinder mutual cooperation between our two (!Ountries, lest we face the alternative of the collapse of the entire global economy. The only way to ensure that such does not happen 'is to promote and strive for greater understanding between Japan and our country. And such understanding is formed only through direct contact and liv.ing in Japanese society. So you don't care about the future of America or the world. Then the term abroad in Japan can still be for you. For you will never have a better chance to get to know who the person occupying your body really is than if you were to spend time in Japan. The culture is so seemingly akin to our own, and yet if you scratch beneath the surfce you will find it to differ to the point of incomprehension. And it is putting yourself into this kind of situation, with no net, and watching yourself react that will lead you to truly know yourself. There is also something quite indescribable in the Japanese mind set, which if you can tap onto, and embrace in your heart and International Sun Mon 1 9 20 2 6 27 2 3 ASIAN AWARENESS WEEK-ASU KOREA 9 1 0 RUSSO IWROPEAN WEEK·ISU 1 6 17 23 24 Calendar of Events Tue 2 1 6:00 PM lnteruatio1111 House Dinnqr 28 6:00 PM lntema~\\'l House Dinnct 4 ASIAN AWARENESS WEEK-ASU VIETNAM 6:00 PM lntema~Oilal House Dinnet 8:00 PM CROSS TALKS: Multiculturalilm 1 1 RUSSO BUROPEAN WEEK-ISU 6:00 PM lntcmoti011al Houso Di.Dner 1 8 6:00 PM lnt...,•tion•l House Di.nnet 25 6:00 PM Intemo~onal Housa Di.nnct\ Wed Thu 22 23 4:00 PM INT'L CONGRESS 29 30 Fable of the 4:00 PM INT'L Beautiful CONGRESS Pigeon Fancier SPANISH CLUB MOVIE 5 ASIAN AWARENESS WEEK-ASU CHINA 1 2 RUSSO BUROPEAN WEEK-JSU 1 9 2 6 6 ASIANAWARI!NBSS WEEK-ASU INDIA 4:00 PM INT'L CONGRESS 13 RUSSO EUROPEAI'l WEEK-IS II 4:00 PM INT'L CONGRESS 20 4:00 PM INT'L ·CONGRESS .21 4:00 PM INT'L CONGRESS Fri 2 4 4:00 PM -6:00 INT'L HOUSE ice-skating 3 1 7 ASIAN AWARENESS WEEK-ASU CHINESE NEW CELEBRATION Culinary Bxpo10 Fashion Show 1 4 R!JSSO EUROPEAN WEEK-JSU 2 1 2 8 Sat 25 1 8 IS 22 NYC-Chester Arthur House 29 mind, you will fintl yourself more at ease, and more at peace with your surroundings (for Japanese scholars, a hint: shikata ga nai). The Japan term abroad is an extraordinary one, well suited to every level of adventurer. The University itself is very helpful in aiding you with any problems you may encounter. as well as with things such as \Do they have basketball there? Are the rims shorter?\ travel plans, learning the language, and what to say to your homestay family in whatever situation you might get yourself into. You have ample free time for travel, and the immediate area is abundant in everytbing that is considered truly Japanese, from the Golden Pavilion in Kyoto to the high-tech showroom of SONY Tower in Osaka. Also at Kansai Gaidai are approximnately six thousand Japanese students, almost all of which would welcome you gladly into their circle of friends, provided that you come open-minded and open-armed. For further information on the Union term abroad, there will be an information meeting on Wednesday, January 29, at 4:30 in the Social Sciences building. And as for the questions posed above, the answers are - some. DIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIH 111111mnnnnnnnnnlllllnmtnn1111111111n 1111111111111111111 APPLICATION DEADLINE for UNION TERMS ABROAD MONDAY, FEBRU.ARY 10 for all Sununer and Fall Progrruns Information and applications in HU211. miiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIH

WORLDSCOPE THE DAILY GAZETTE Tuesday, Jan. 21, 1992 THE QUIZ IS PART OF THIS NEWSMPER'S NEWSPAPER IN EDUCATION PROGRAM (lO points torea:h question answered co.rrectly) 1) The chairmen of the \'Big Three\ auto makers, Harold Poling of Ford (L), •. l .. of .. ? •• (C), and Robert Stemple of General Motors accompanied the President on his recent Asia tour. The three complained that Japanese trade cor:1cessions did not go far enough. 2) On his trip to Japan, Mr. Bush's main topic was the huge annual U.S.-Japan trade deficit, which is now approximately .. ? .. billion dol- lars. a-$40 b-$60 c-$80 3) Interim leaders in Algeria have halted elections for parliament after (CHOOSE ONE: hard-line Marxists, Islamic fundamentalists) won most of the seats in the first round of voting. 4) The U.S. unemployment rate rose to .. ? .. percent in December, its highest level in more than five years. a-6.7 b-7.1 c-7.5 MATCHWORDS (2 points toe each conectmatch) 1-v itriol ic a-optional 2-stimulus b-pecuniary J-conducive c-incentive 4-discretionary d-leading to 5-fi seal e-bitter PEOPLE/SPORTS (5 points for each conect answer) 1) Although the first two shows of singer .. ? • .'s controversial South Afri- can tour went off without incident, crowds were smaller than expected. 2) Exactly 40 years ago this month, S)The Democratic field for the 1992 the \Today\ show premiered on presidential race was reduced to five NBC. The first host was (CHOOSE afewdaysagowhen .. ?..said hewas ONE: John Chancellor, Dave Gar- giving up the race to attend to the . roway). problems of his state. NEW'S NAME ( 15 points lor correct Gll'lSW'er or answe.rs) I recently mel with the President when he visited my country as the last stop on his re- cent Asia tour. Who ami and what count- ry do I lead? YOURSCORR: 91 to 100 points- TOP SCORE! /81 to 90 poinls- Excellent./ 71 to 80 points- Good./61 to 70 poinb- Fair. 3) As expected, the two best teams in pro football will face off in the Super Bowl. The Buffalo Bills are making their second trip to the Big Game, and the Washington Redskins are making their (CHOOSE ONE: fourth, fifth). 4) The Australian Open tennis tour- nament began recently, and .. ? .• - the number one women's player- is the heavy favorite to repeat as champion. 5) Kristi Yamaguchi won her first U.S. Figure Skating Championship last week and will represent the U.S. at the upcoming Olympic Games in (CHOOSE ONE: Albertville, Barce- lona). ~Knowledge Unlimited, Inc. 1-20.92 .. -· ANSWERS·TOTHEQUIZ -. aJI!\lJaqJV·S ~sa1as e:>!UOW-t ~ljij!J ·E !AeMOJJe~ aAea·z !UOW!S J02d·l :slMOdS ~ 3ld03d q-s !e\i>' !p·£ !:>·7: :a-L :smiOMHJ.lVW uede( 'eMezeA!W !'P!!)I :3WVNSM3N .JaPI!M·setSnoo 'l·S :q;. :5lS!JeluawepunJ ~!WeJSI·£ !q-z !.liiJStUif;) 'acao:»ej OO'J·' =3d0::>S01HOM Superstitions Around The World by Larae Tumidajewicz RUSSIA -If you forget something in your room, it is bad luck to go back. If you must go back, you must be sure to look in the mirror. -Dropping salt in the fl<X,r is bad luck. -Lf you see a rabbit, it is a bad sign. -Lf you drop a knife or fork, you will get mail. -Two flowers means death. -If you see a spider, don't kill it. lt will bring you good luck. -lf your ears or cheeks get red, someone is trying to remember you. -H you put too much salt in food that is cooking and other notice it, this means that you are in love with somebody. · -Men are not supposed to sit at the comer of a table because it means they will never get married. MEXICO -Wreaths of garlic are hung above doors and windows to keep away bad spirits. -If you wear a wedding gown before your wedding day, you will never be married. -Tails of rabbits are very good luck. -If you hit your ellx>w, something unusual will happen. -If you knock over a salt shaker, or your piece of cake falls down on the dish, your lover has found another. -If you stumble with you,. left foot it means good luck. With your right foot means bad luck. -A spider in the mornin~; means hld luck for the day. ~If chinaware falls and b::eaks, it's good luck. Glass breaking is very bad luck. -A little pig (Giiksshwae::t) with a four leaf clover in his mouth is a symbol of good '· ·\ luck. -If you see a chimney sweep, you will have good luck. JAPAN -The numbers 4 and 9 are very had luck The pronunciation of the number 4 is the same as the word for death \schee\, and the number 9 is pronounced \koo\ which means suffering. There are no rooms in Japanese hospitals with #4 or #9. -When a child loses a bahy tooth from the bottom of his mouth, he must throw it over the roof of the house. l.f it successfully goes over, then he will have beautiful teeth . Otherwise, his teeth wi!l be ct·ooked. If an upper tooth is lost, the child must simply throw it under the house. -If you clip your nails at night, you will not be able to see your parents dying. -One must not whistle at night .... it invites thieves to your home. INFORMATION MEETINGS for all UNION TERMS ABROAD Wednesday, January 29 4:30PM Fall Term Winter Term Slto Paulo, Brazil-- SS 014 Bath, England - - .. - HU 112 Florence, Italy-- ... HU 117 Osaka, Japan- ... - ... - SS 112 Rennes, France - - .. .., HU 116 Beersheva, Israel - .. SS 010 Athens, Greece - - .. - HU 019 Cuernavaca, Mexico - .. SS 104 Spring Tenn Freiburg, Germany- .. - SS 110 Marine Studies - - - SS 012 Summer Term Socialized Medicine .... HU 014 Thursday. January 30 Fall Term Nanjing, China- - - - HU 116 York, England .. - ~ HU 117

Have a Memorable Summer • • • Students are facing limited summer wo:rlc options due to the current tough economic times. However, thousands of students are discovering working abroad as a unique option to make the most of mundane summer job prospects. Working abroad offers students an experience much more enriching than a typical summer job by combining work with affordable international travel. The Work Abroad Program offered by the Council on International Educational Exchange (ClEE), a nonprofit student exchange CJrganization, provides students with an opportunity to get an insider's view of a foreign working environment, culture, society, and people by allowing students to work temporarily in Britain, Ireland, France, - Work And Travel Abroad . . . . importantly their novelty value lle enro'lled ~ull-~me in a U.S. G~rmany. New Zealand! Costa p~ctp'!\ts agree ~~tIt IS not _ simply being an Ameri.can - college or umve~say. The only Rica, Canada, and Jamruca and the JOb Itself that IS Impo~t means they are weU-eqmpped cost to students IS the program avoid th~ govern~ental ~-tape but the ability to ~o somethmg to give an added dimension to fee of $125 and airfare to t~eir usuaily mvolved m acqumng a new and educauonal, rather foreign businesses. destination. More information work ~isa. . than sitting hac~ waitin~ for Many students take on the Work Abroad Program ~hde many of the JObs tbeecon~my to ID?prove. The advantage of the resources can be obtained from CIEE, available abroad are of the opportumty I rec~1ved to work found at home to pre-arrange WA-R, 205 East 42nd Street, unskilledvariety,forex:ample, overseas was unmatched by both career and fun jobs in New York, NY 10017. working in bars, restau~ant~, anything I did here in the U.S. their adopted country. By Telephone: (212) 661-1414. stores, and hotels, It 1s I :learned the French 'way of capitalizing on their access to The Council on International possible to find career-related life' through 'hands on' American offices of multi- Educational Exchange, a oppo:rtunities. Nan~y Parne ?f experi~,nce; n?t from a text national companies, personal private, nonprofit_internat!onal Wake Forest Umversuy m book, satd .Kenneth contacts, their professors, and organization w1th offices, North Carolina spent last Kochanny, of Iowa State library research, nothing is left affiliations, and representation summer working as a research University, who worked as a to chance. But for those who around the world, has been a assistant at the Prince's Youth barman in the Hotel Castillon prefer a more casual approach pioneer in educational exchange Business Trust in London. inLaGrave, France. to working abroad, the job initiatives since its \Working and living abroad With a combination of g.ood hunt can begin on arrival. The establishment in 194 7. It proved to be a tremendously preparation and a flextble average job search lasts for one develops and administers study, rewarding experience. An attitude, ~5% of A~erica.n week and is aided by CIEE and work, and travel programs for opportunity such as this is not st11dents fmd work m thetr its cooperating organizations in American and international to be missed.\ chosen country. Not only are each country which provide students at the secondary, However, even casual they well-qualified, highly currentjoband accommodation undergraduate, graduate, and employment provides students motivated empl?yees, but their listings, as well as. a back-up professional levels. with an insider's view of a past work expenence, advanced support service. foreign country. Past office skills, and most The Work Abroad Program Fall Term • 10 Korea is open to U.S. students who are 18 years of age or older and From the Council on International Educational Exchange Shakti Speaker Discusses Origins of Mathematics How would you like to study for the fall term in Korea? Korea's economy is burgeoning, Seoul is a major world city of ten million people, and studying there would be stimulating and rewarding. Union College has established an ex.change ·program with Yonsei University in Seoul. From one to three qualified Union students will be selected each spring to study at Yonsei during the following fall semester. For every three Union students who study at Yonsei, one Korean student from Yonsei will study for a full year at Union. The 1992 fall semester at Yonsei runs from August 22 to December 14. Union students who participate i~ the program will be required to study· the Korean language while at Yonsei, to take a course taught in English titled, \Introduction to Korea, •• and to take two additional courses, also taught in English, from a list of about 20 courses on various aspects of Korea's history and society or East Asian culture. Students selected for the program will Ii ve in the international student dormitory at Yonsei. They will pay Union's tuition, room and board charges, and roundtrip airfare. If you are interested in finding out more information about the program, please see either Professor Thomas, Terms Abroad Office, Humanities (x6002) or Professor Thurston, Social , Sciences 213 (x6220). Q~d You Knew? \v_j p I I / 1 0 f by Sreedhar Samudrala Contributing Writer Shakti, Union College's South Asian-Middle Eastern organization is having a successful second year as an official club on campus. Last Wednesday, Shakti invited Dr. Mahendra Jani, Professor of Mathematics at William Paterson Colle&.J in New Jersey, to speak on \Vedic Mathematics and Computations.\ Dr. Jani researched the ancient Indian philosophical scriptures, the 'Vedas' (-2000 BC) and showed that today's mathematics find their roots thousands of years ago. Indian mathematicians were the first to develop the complete numeric system, which is now called the Arabic numeral system. It is believed that after studying with Vedic mathematicians in India, the Arabs brought the concepts to the West. In· the Vedas, one can find the derival!ion of 'Pi,' a constant used as the basis of many further calculations. The Vedic mathematicians most notable discoveries were the concepts of zero and infinity, which added a new dimension to mathematics. This can be found in the Sanskrit verse: Purna Madah Purna Midam, Puranath Purna Mudachyate Purnasya Purna Madaya, Purna Meva Vashisbyate \ ... the all-pervading God is infinity which is complete in itself. Infinity minus infinity leaves only infinity.\ Dr. Jani translated sections from the script and described various computations and permutations that were used to solve complicated arithmetic in an age when there were no calculators or computers. Dr. Jani showed how these computations found in tbe Vedas could be important for today's society. For example, these Vedic computations may be able to reduce the processing time for mainframe computers, which could greatly increase productivity. The lecture was well attended by Union students, guests from outside colleges as well as by Union's faculty. In the spring. Shak.ti will be sponsoring its biggest event of the year. Zakir Hussain, a world famous Tabla player, and Sultan Khan, a renowned Sarangi player will be in concert on Wednesday, Apri18, 1992 in the Memorial Chapel at 7:30 p.m. For more information, contact Shakti officers or the Student Activities Office.

Out in the Cold, But Not Left There Shuttle Bus Deserves System Praise . For ~umerous Union females, Saturday will mark a turning point m theu outlook of the college social scene. While some women will be elated at the prospect of receiving a bid at a favorite sorority, others will be psychologicaily scmed for life. This coming weekend, the Students Against Drunk Driving Shuttle Bus System will finally C()me to fruition. The shuttle will nm on weekend nights ; from eight p.m. until tllree a.m. The system will fill the void that was left by · · the new (and necessary) policies for the escort service. It will also serve as an :inexpensive luxury which will facilitate life at Union. Unfortunately, this is ultimately the largest flaw in the sorority rush system in· that it provides no support for the girls who slip through it. As friends soon become entranced into sorority life, those not fortunate enough to have instantaneously made fifty new friends, quickly have been made to feel left out and neglected. The escort system, was originally intended to be a seiVice for students who d:id not want to (or coUld not) walk across campus alone. Until now, Security ' attempted to cater. to ev.eryone who asked for a ride. However, this system soo~ became a ta:xt servxce for lazy students. Campus Security, who runs the serv1ce, b~came ?Verlo~ded with s~dents who did not feel like walking and . wanted a nde. 'Y•th ~ t~plell_lentatto~ of the new shuttle bus, Security will be i able ~o e!ld the1r seNI<:e m thts capacity and concentrate on more important . . secunty tssues. · Because of tough-budgetary restrictions, the shuttle bus will not be funded However, these women should not feel as though their standing ' by tlle administration. Some econom~c support has come from various clubs outside in cold for the past week was worthless. Rather, frostbite and Greek organizations. However, the bulk of funding will come from the was a mere step on their road to independence. s~dent body w~ch ~t will benefit. The bus system will only work and live up to Its full potential wtththe full support ofthe student body. These women need to be told that there is more to Union College For only five dollars, students can purchase a bus pass :for winter term. than pledging a sorority. In fact, independent life often brings the Students ~ill be ~ble to pick up the bus at ~Y. of sixteen stops around campus best of both worlds. and on netghbonng streets. Instead of wattmg,for the esc<lrt service and wast!ng ~ecurity's time, students ~ill be able to plClll on getting the bu; at a speclfi.c time and plare. The bus wtll be a more efficient way to run a shuttle seiVice for all concerned. Unlike at most schools, being independent at Union does not ! exclude one from intenningling with Greeks nor does it ban one from Greek activities. The members of SADD and everyone else involved in the foundation of the ~y~~e~ sho~d be applaud~~· It is about time that student organizations take · · tmttattve, mstead of wattmg around for support and money from the administration. This program should seiVe as proof that students, if they feel strongly enough, can overcome obstacles to move Union in the right direction. For all those awaiting their bids, remember, true friendship does not revolve around two or three Greek letters. Apathy Continued: Who's At Fault To the Editor: Last Thursday, I had the privilege of hosting a perspective Union student for the Class of 1996. The perspective was excited to have the opportunity to attend the Women's Union presentation on Rape Culture. The climax of the perspective's first view of the academic side of the institution was shockingly poor. As we walked into the College Center auditorium we sat down and awaited the crowd, but as the presentation got underway, no crowd came. There were only six Union students, one professor, and one perspective. Only two of the students were female. I hate to use the often used description of apathetic for our student body, but in this case it makes a great deal of sense. Not only does this hold for my fellow students, but also for the administration and the faculty. The Women's Union sent letters to every department and to the Deans in reference to the presentation. I suppose that the faculty and administration have enough time to attend sporting events, but not enough time to deal with a serious problem that is plaguing our culture. Faculty and administration constantly make the opinion known that Union students are neither involved nor unaware, yet they themselves often fit the same description. My suggestion is that instead of continuing this trend of hypocritic criticism the faculty and administration should set an example and get involved. Make your presence known outside of the classroom. The result will probably be a sense of added respect for the faculty, instead of the continued feeling of animosity. The pathetic showing at a presentation of such importance is a scar upon our entire community. Does the fact that only seven people showed up mean that only seven people are concerned? If each individual at Union takes on some sense of social responsibility, we will all be better off. Respectfully Concerned, Patrick Haskell Delta Psi Delta -=()()() ()[21~ Thurs. &: Fri.-Jan .. 23 & 24 CC Atrium Bring Cash or Cans Lack of Confidentiality Befuddles WRUC To the Editor: This letter is in response to the recent front page article regarding WRUC. As active board members of the radio station we were disheartened to read the article about our ex- program manager. WRUC had a very trying fall term. We maintained normal operating procedures while the entire situation unfolded. As a board we sought the advice of our faculty advisor Dean Alford, and the student forum, in which Steve Carr is a member. We were asked by both to maintain confidentiality as were they. The board was instructed not to respond to any inquiries by Concordiensis or anyone else. Conduct charges were pressed. When the hearing had ended we were asked by Seth Ellis, the chairman of the Student Conduct Committee, to keep quiet about the whole situation and told that what went on in the hearing was confidential. We were under the impression, because not told otherwise, that this applied not exclusively to fall term. It is apparent that the same people that insisted that confidentiality be kept never intended to keep it themselves. As board members we were unaware that such an article would ever be written after the fact, and were surprised to see it in last week's Concordiensis. We agree that the college community has the right to know about the situation. Although bow can one write an article mentioning Aaron Ambrosino, a key player in the unfolding of this situation, and not even speak to him about what truly happened? We are not upset that the article came out, f()r we have nothing to hide. We are upset that Conc()rdiensis did this behind our back not knowing all the facts only to glorify their newspaper. The using of our ex -program manager's name was wrong. He received his punishment through his expulsion, and repayment of the money. The punishment he received was more than sufficient. He does not deserve to be further persecuted, especially by the three sources that contributed to the article. Personally we feel that confidentiality was appropriate for this situation. We were under the impression that it was of a permanent nature, for we were not told otherwise. Now that the story has come out, all of its repercussions fall on the WRUC executive board and board of directors .. Considering that we were bound to confidentiality by those who do not have a direct association with WRUC on a regular basis, but said to be acting in our best interest, we cannot help but feel a great sense of disloyalty and distrust for those who claimed to be helping us and to whom we entrusted to do so. Sincerely, Sheryl Frishman '93 Genernl Manager Brian Unger '93 Sports Director Gamma Phi Beta and Phi Delta Theta are proud to sponor the AMERICAN RED CROSS BLOODMOBILE Date: Jan. 31 Time: 11:00 am-5:00 pm Place: Old Chapel . Look for registration table in the College Center when you give blood .•.• yon give another a ~hance HELP US MEET OUR GOAL!

Beta Denies Losing Chart~r To the Editor: - We were very shocked to pick np the Concordiensis last week and read about how our charter had supposedly been revoked. At first we thought it might be the N a:tional Inquirer and we checked for the story about the boy who was trapped inside tlle Fefrigerator and ate his own foot to survive. Then we looked at the top of the paper and realized it was just :about the same thing. This is not the first time that y()urpaper has included incorre~t information about our house or other fraternities. Even though there is little response to the wrongful accusatioNs you have reported in the past does not mean that your information is correct, nor does it mean that you can continlle to print rumors that you hear oR the street. If you ask a b-rother in a house and Panhel Editorial Shortsighted., To the Editor: I am writing this l~tter in response to last week's editorial entitled \The More the Merrier.\~ a member of the Panhellenic Council, I recognized several inaccuracies with this article. While I do agree that women's role on campus should meet t11at of men's, the author is unjustified in many of his/her claims. The reasons for the council's decision against expansion was not made with the intent that the council would be a \self- serving organization dedicated to exclusivity.\ In fact, it is quite the contrary. We did not vote for expansion this year for several reasons, none of which the author mentioned. Two of the fo11r sororities on campus have not met quota for the past two years. Second, the n11rnber of entering freshmen women has decreased and is predicted to continue doing · so in the corning years. In addition, the new housing rules on campus mandate that all sororities must fill their houses. One empty bed can result in eviction from the building. These three factors make it unfeasible to add ano1her national sorority to the present Greek system <On cam:pus. Tbe Panhellenic Council decided that it was most important f.:lr al:l four sororities to unite together before another house is added. Last term all four bou ses and fifteen fraternities participated in a Halloween party for children at the Schenectady Reach Out Center. This successful venture was the first of many joint sorority events. Although it was only the beginning, it represented the charitable, giving ideals upon which most, if n()t all, sororities are based. I think Concordiensis has a respollsibility to its readers to act m()re cautiously in its printing and exclude articles which are written without proper mformation. This article did not reflect badly on the Panhellenic Council. In fact, the only casualty that this article pr()duced was the journalistic integrity of its author. Respectfully, Alli Wapner '93 All letters to the editor must be typed, double spaced, signed with a name, ID and telephone number and submitted to the Concordiensis Office by 4:00 pm on the Tuesday preceding weekly issuance of Concordiensis. ANONYMOUS LETTERS AND THOSE OVER 500 WORDS WILL NOT BE PRINTED. he refuses to comment that does not confirm the accusations made. Presently we still have our ·charter, we are staying in touch with the national and we did not lie to the national about the way we lost our housing. We would appreciate a correction in this week's paper about your mistake. We hope you have the decency to put it on the front page so everyone can see that we still have our charter the same way you announced that it had been revoked. A small excerpt tucked back in the middle of the paper is not an appropriate way to fix the error you have committed. Note from the NewJ desk: Since this incident is over, we look forward to better relations in the future. Very truly yours, The Brothers of Beta Theta Pi Concordiensis spoke with Thomas Cassady, the General Secretary of Beta Theta Pi. in addition to the fraternity's National Administrative Secreta.ry, :Robert Cottrell. They informed Concordiensis that the .Beta Chapter at Union College had, for the time being, lost their charter. The charter has been suspended indefinitely, pending appeal. Panhel Serves \All Greek Women\ To the Editor: We would like to address a few of the issues written about in last week's editorial entitled \The More The . Merrier\ concerning the role of and decisions made by Union's Panhellenic Council. For one, \the Council,\ made up of five voting delegates (one representative from each sorority - Omega Phi Beta has recently become affiliated with Panhellenic) do not reach decisions alone. These five are merely representatives, and they base their vote on what · their chapter has decided. Therefore, we are now dealing · with an estimated 30% of Union's women as opposed to solely five voices. This number is hardly an \exclusive\ one. It is true that men has many more choices than women in choosing a Greek organization. ' However, at a closer look, fraternities tend to be much less diversified than sororities. Would we not all agree with the fact that most members: of individual sports teams tend to join the same fraternities? When a woman joins a sorority, she is not going where stereotypes and small cliques may lead her, for that option just isn't there. We must also consider tlte longevity of the male Greek system .. fraternities have been supported and cultivated on this campus for close to two hundred years. Women have a twenty-year history at Union .. it's going to take us quite some time to catch up. The most disturbing accusations in the editorial state that Panhellenic ••is clearly a self-serving organization dedicated to exclusivity\ and that the Council \continue to disappoint independent female students.\ In rough English translation, the term \Panhellenic\ means •• All Greek Women.\ And although The Panhellenic Creed states that \to the best of our abilit)l'' we will serve \our college community,\ nowhere does it say that we will directly serve college W(Jmcn who are not Greek. However, Panhcllenic does sponsor approximately two campus-wide diversity events for all women each tem1, and no pins or letters are worn. Had the Editor attended these events. or possibly a Council meeting (which are ()pen to everyone), maybe last week's Editorial could have been avoided, or at least written without misinformation. This is not the first Lime that an Editorial in Concordiensis has strayed from tile facts. Good journalism. opinionated or not, should first be cleared of all conjecture and supposition. Jumping to conclusions only weakens your argument and makes the paper look foolish. Signed, Julie Mcdow '92 Julie Schlang '93 Mary Beth Childs '92 Andrea Slade '92 Laurie Googe! '92 Jennifer Young '92 Phi Delta Theta Helping the Community To the Editor: Through an active community service program, fraternities have been playing a vital role in helping the local community. A program, chaired by Tom Pannhorst and Tony Grabow, directs the efforts of the brothers in the Schenectady area. The philanthropic activities of fraternities include ongoing donations to a local food pantry, volunteer work at a local Boys Club, and an upcoming Bloodmobile to be co-sponsored with Gamma Phi Beta.. The Schenectady Inner City Ministry Food Program provides Emergency groceries to underprivileged and needy persons in the Schenectady area. This non-profit organization relies on donations from individuals and local religious groups for money. food donations, volunteers and supplies. Last week the fraternity of :Phi Delta Theta donated over 130 dollars which was raised throt~gh an in-house recycling program. In addition to this cause, Pili Delta Theta made a donati()n to OXFAM, an international organization against world hunger. Phi Delt plans to continue these donations throughout the year. A group of brothers volunteer their time each week to participate at the Craig Street Boys Club, organizing games and activities. Due to local and state budget cuts, volunteer help is invaluable at this critical time. Under the guidance of Paul Wiet and the staff, the principles of \sportsmanship participation , dedication and respect\ a1e taught to the members who range from the ages of 6 to 16. The job is very rewarding and as the br()thers have found, takes a lot of patience. The brothers of Phi Delta Theta and tbe sisters of Gamma Phi Beta are sponsoring an American Red Cross Bloodmobile on Friday, January 31st from 11 am to 5 pm. They hope tn achieve their goal of 60 donors. Registration to donate blood will be held all week at the College Center Atrium until the goal is reached. Anyone wishing to donate funds or volunteer time to any of the above organizations can contact: Boys' Club (Paul Wiet) 374-4714; Schenectady fnner City Ministry (Pat Obrecht) 346-4445. Tom Pannhorst CllllliOlrb.frttsis is currently seeking photographers for all sections. Contact Steve at X4 154 .:;

The Escape by Sari Skolnik Features Editor Now that winter term is well on its way, many of us are getting caught up in our own respective lives. Many students are faced with perplexing dilemmas such as - what one is going to do next year once he/she is thrown out into the real world, or not begining your fall-winter thesis (why is it tbat the one journal volume that you need is always the only one missing?) or perhaps you are making the crucial dec is ion to join a Greek orga11ization or to choose a term abroad to escape Union next year. Whatever the prcblem one may be facing at thi 1 s time it is usuaHy magnified by the external conditions that Schenectady has to offer. There exists few forms of escape to the average person, besides the usual parties that become more of a hassle to travel to, due to outside elements (namely the sub degree weather). However there are still some options that offer some fun and excitment to the average person - well maybe not excitement but at least a wa¥ to escape school and waste time. My anecdote takes place on a random Saturday night (welt actually January 18, 1992) the participants are four women who are bored and want to procrastinate (sound familiar?) so they decide to see t:he latest movie. The first step in this procedure is to decide 1) what movie to see, 2) to pick a convenient time to see the movie you choose in step #1 and 3) to decide who will be the driver and what time to pick up the participants. These initial steps include many phone calls back and forth and encompass many arguments over what movie to see and wlly one should or should not see a particular movie. Unfortunately, just having returned from break we all had a llard time picking a movie we had not seen, despite this obstacle we all decided on seeing a sneak preview at the local theatre. To make a short story long, we arrived at the '\ theatre with ten minutes to spare, however since we are res~urceful individuals we were able to mobilize and form a plan. Two of us stood on the huge line while the (.)ther two headed to the neares~ CVS in order to budget sho::P for our nourishment. I could only speak for the group that went to get the food - but it was a hard decision to pick: from the array of junk food, however, my good friend Dana was able to convince me to p11t back the handful of sno-caps, peanut butter cups, and Nes1le crunch bars. Obviously, she knew how to pick out \movie food\ and was able to use her prior knowledge to suggest buying \one sweet option and one salted food.\ Having choosen two diet cokes and a bag of smartfood, a package of peanut M&M's we headed to the check-out counter. Tile register rang up a grande total of $5.63 which was a , sa~ings of approximately $4.0() from the movie prices, we prooeeded to hide the food in our 1espective pockets and headed arcund the Effective January 27, 1992 \DUTCH .HOLLOW -RESTAURANT NOW OPEN UNTIL 1:00AM DAILY! GET ALL YOUR FAVORITE FOon, . s~.Acks.-&: MUNcHIES ,. RIGHT UP UNTIL 1:00AM Something to Cheer About corner to the tbeatJe. One comrade was s·trate_gjcally placed outside the. d<l<rl' and handed us our 1iclcets.. We walked into the m()vie :tbeatre to find our otbc~ Jartner securing four seats in the crowded theatre. Wel.l, we sat through the previevts ~Lethal~ Weapon 3 is comjlig this .summer!) - sang the '\th.ank you for coming t() Laews theme,\ and sat ~r()ugll the movie, changing ou1 s-eating positions every few mL'nutes. · After the movie was. finished we.realized that l)w~co:uld go back to campus in time for the usual fun and e~ci ting gatherings or 2) sneak imto the 9:55 p.m. showing 10f\Grand . Canyon.\ We debated for a second and cho()se th.e latter option, next we casuaJl:y hid in the bathroom for abo;ut fifteen minutes and the11 caatiously walked into the next tlleatre. We still had some foo<lleft so we were set for at :least mother two hours. We sat th::rough different previews (Tt>rn Cruise and his new wife, Nic()le, are in some new Irish ·rnovie which is directed ·J)y Ron Howard), sang the \tllamk you for coming to Loe-w~·· tberne like pros and watelted the movie (however, tllis ti111e we were constantly chaag:i11g our seating position and _getting a little distracted by- ()UL cOtnstant movements). Well, to make this long story short, we loved both movies and f~lt a great sense of accomplishme11t for budgeting two lllO\Vie s for $6 .. 50. I suppose tlle r.ewelation that I have to offer yam from this recent experie11ce :i!; 1) as Steve Martin says \'All life riddles are answered in the movies.'' and witho11t being too subtle 2) sometimes the simple things in life are the . most enjoyable. Staff (lto\· . presents 8 1JellfrJil Proi. Tid march 00 W©llii\1fi©aill ©wrfff®©fuill~ ©riD ~)2)lQJ®oo Wed. Jan. 29 7:30 Sponsored by Delta Psi' Delta car··psJ Rush Fu,nctions · ·• - Th,ns Saturday & Sunda:y Both Days ·.2:00pm FREE PJZZA AND WINGS AU are .welcome 1o come and meet the Brothers of The Lodge

CONCORDIENSIS • JANUARY 23, 1992 • PAGE 12 The Escape . N .. · ·. '..:;.: r..~,..~A; .... ' ~-_J;¥\~·· l bav~ a Rl'()Qlijm ~nd;. dcyp~t tmo~ woo tO' tlfm' tol·t··was at a frate~it~ party StttQt.rlb\y·· night,' and ~s 'I re\turn~ ~l'Qm . by Sari Skolnik Features Editor Now that winter tem1 is well on its way, many of us are getting caught up in our own respective lives. Many students arc faced with perplexing dilemmas such as - what one is going to do next year once he/she is thrown out into the real world, or not bcgining your fall-winter thesis (why is it that the one journal volume that you need is always the only one missing?) or perhaps you are making the crucial decision to join a Greek organization or to choose a term abroad to escape Union next year. Whatever the problem one may be facing at this time it is usually magnified by the external conditions that Schenectady has to offer. There exists few forms of escape to the average person, besides the usual parties that become more of a hassle to travel to, due to outside elements (namely the sub degree weather). However there are still some options that offer some fun and excitment to the average person - well maybe not excitement but at least a wa)' to escape school and waste time. My anecdote Lakes place on a random Saturday night (well actually January 18, 1992) the participants arc four women who are bored and want to procrastinate (smmd familiar?) so they decide to see the latest movie. The first step in this procedure is to decide 1) what movie to sec, 2) to pick a convenient time to see the movie you choose in step #1 and 3) to decide who will be the driver and what time to pick up the participants. These initial steps include many phone calls back and forth and encompass many arguments over what movie to see and why one should or should not see a particular movie. Unfortunately, just having returned from break we all had a h,ard time picking a movie we had not seen, despite this obstacle we all decided on seeing a sneak preview at the Joe al theatre. To make a short story long, we arrived at the theatre with ten minutes to spare, however since we are resourceful individuals we were able to mobilize and form a plan. Two of us stood on the huge line while the other two headed to the nearest CVS in order to budget shop for our nourishment. I could only speak for the group that went to get the food ~ but it was a hard decision to pick from the array of junk food, however, my good friend Dana was able to convince me to put back the handful of sno-caps, peanut butter cups, and Nestle crunch bars. Obviously, she knew how to pick out \movie food\ and was able to use her prior knowledge to suggest buying \one sweet option and one salted food.\ Having choosen two diet cokes and a bag of smartfood, a package of peanut M&M's we headed to the check-out counter. The register rang up a grande total of $5.63 which was a. savings of approximately $4.00 from the movie prices, we proceeded to hide the food in our respective pockets and headed around the Effective January 27, 1992 rln DUTCH HOLLOW RESTAURANT NOW OPEN UNTIL 1:00 AM DAILY! GET ALL YOUR FAVORITE FOOD, SNACKS & MUNCH.IEs RIGHT UP UNTIL 1:00AM Something to Cheer About corner to the theatre. One comrade was strategically placed outside the door and handed us our tickets. We walked into the movie theatre to find our other partner securing four scats in the crowded theatre. Well, we sat through the previews (Lethal Weapon 3 is coming this summer!) - sang the \thank you for coming to Loews theme,\ and sat through the movie, changing our seating positions every few minutes. After the movie was finished we realized that 1) we could go back to campus in time for the usual fun and exciting gatherings or 2) sneak into the 9:55 p.m. showing of'Grand Canyon.\ We debated for a second and choose the latter option, next we casually hid in the bathroom for about fifteen minutes and then cautiously walked into the next theatre. We still had some food left so we were set for at least another two hours. We sat through different previews (Tom Cruise and his new wife, Nicole, are in some new Irish movie which is directed by Ron Howard), sang the \thank you for coming to Loews\ theme like pros and watched the- movie (however, this time we were constantly changing our seating position and getting a little distracted by our constant movements). Well, to make this long story short, we loved both movies and felt a great sense of accomplishment for budgeting two movies for $6.50. I suppose the revelation that I have to offer you from this recent experience is 1) as Steve Martin says \All life riddles are answered in the movies,\ and without being too subtle 2) sometimes the simple things in life are the most enjoyable. •· the ·oa~· I diSco\Vered mY.·· · boyfti~nd tcissitag an0tber gir-l · behlnd the bar. I don~t want to ·lose biro, bUt. r· re~ to share. Please help. Down and Outt ·Dear O()wn: · Unf<>rtunately, libidos and beers dcn't mix! As mucb as you want to hold on to tflis · relatiunship maybe you need to ' reevaluate your needs. You are ·not a doormat. so don•t Jet yotu boyfriend walk all over you. :Be Cool, and true to yourselft Good luck. Staff ~'<o\· presents 8 Peafc 8 Prof. Tidmarch OOIF®llii'ilil©®Jl CD:IDITIT®©'©ID~ @rQJ ~J]fl!J&Soo Wed. Jan. 29 7:30 Sponsored by Delta Psi Delta CHI PSI Rush Fu·nctions This Saturday & Sunday Both Days 2 :00 pm FREE PIZZA AND WINGS All are welcome to come and meet the Brothers of The Lodge

! ONLY TWO HOURS SPRING BREAK. l $599.00 l Bermuda College Weeks • March 2-28 and April 6-18 • 7 nights, mrlland inclusive. Call Lipper Union Travel at 518-346-7474. Or call Travel Turf at 1-800-222-4432. . - After you hit the books, it's time to hit the beach. Time joT a free boat party, a free mystery party, free beach parties, plus .swimming, sports, mopeds and more. All less than two hours from the East Coast. Bermuda. So incredible, they named a triangl.e after it. Not 'to mention a style ·of shorts. B E R M U D TO A Package& available through: travel agenc)'/wllo~ler·lh?ted abOve •. Pnces based on round-tnp,purchase. midweek a1r fares, for travel11•17•91 througl1 3•8•92 Prices are per person. based. on quad occupancy. Prices h~~~er for weeKend traval and departures af1er 3•8•92. Prtas. vary by Wholes.ler and may lle subject to ~fl!le MCHt.Y!ilabUity. Tue~ not ~~d DRY RUSH FRIDAYJANUARY24 6:00PM ALBANY PATROON GAME AT KNICKERBOCKER. ARENA ALL ARE WELCOME! Appli-cations for st~aff positions are currently being accepted. Ple·ase contact Steve Carr or Stephanie Fray at the Concordiensis office 370-6155 DRY RUSH SUPERBOWL SUNDAY PIZZA AND WINGS 5:30 PM ALL ARE WELCOME! \,VING ChiNG ax rhe OUCCh hOLLO\-V fli;?SCAUp.AND By popu.kr derncul, \-VINGS wilL become a. re'Ju.Lo..r tnenu. trern nicjhrs a.r me btl)l.. .. E-a.r me,., rtU. you '}row feaxhersl

ONLY TWO HOURS TO SPRING BREAK. 1 $599.00 1 Bermuda College Weeks • March 2-28 cr~d April 6-18 • 7 mghts, atrlland wcluszt>e Call [ 'pper Limon Travel at 518-346-7474. Or call Travel T urj at 1-800-222-4432. ... After you hit the books, it's time to hit the beach. Ttme for a free boat party, .a free mystery party, free beach parties, plus swimming, sports, mopeds and more. All less than two hours from the East Coast. Bermuda. So incredible, the:y named a triangle ufter tt. Not to mention a style of shorts. B E R M u D A Pac~o:.ages ava•lable through travel agencylwholesaler hsted above. Pnces based on round-tnp purchase. mrdweett a•r tares, for trave•11•17•91 tl'lrougr 3•8•92 Pr•ces are per person based on quact occupancy Pnces hlghert()r weeKend travel and departures ahe-r 3•8•92 Prices vary by wnoles.aler and may oe subJect to Chanfle an<:! aW'llllabillty Tp;es not 11'1Ciu0e!1 DRY RUSH FRIDAY JANUARY 24 6:00PM ALBANY PATROON GAME AT KNICKERBOCKER ARENA ALL ARE WELCOME! Applications for staff positions are currently being accepted. Please contact Steve Carr or Stephanie Fray at the Concordiensis office 370-6155 DRY RUSH SUPERBOWL SUNDAY PIZZA AND WINGS 5:30 PM ALL ARE WELCOME! bo n ~VING cnJNG \DUCCh hOLLO\-V p_eSCAUp.A.NO By popuk-r- derncul, WINGS will beco.ne a. -r-e'Juk-r- menu iretn nKjhrs ar -rhe bhR. e aX\ i:hetn rilL you 'J-r'OW fe~hers!

Outspoken Censorship Critic of to Lecture by Ned Walley Arts Editor Photographer Jock Sturges will lecture and show work on Monday, January 27 ·at 7:00 pm in the College Center Auditorimn. He is a fine art and commercial photographer residing in San Francisco, California. Since 1976, he has shown his work in 18 one-person exhibits internationally and his photographs have been included in numerous significant group exhibitions and publications. He works primarily in photographing the nude, and uses unusually large 8x 10 negatives. This gives much more clarity and detail to his portraits than are available in smaller film sizes. In April 1990, the San Francisco nome and studio space of Sturges was raided by the FBI and city police. The San Francisco police had been notified by a worker at a photo lab that some Sturges film they were processing might contain pornography. The San Francisco police then notified the FBI and together they conducted the search and seizure. Thousands of negatives and prints, business and personal papers, and photographic equipment and supplies were confiscated and trucked away. After an extensive investigation of Sturges and examination of the confiscated material a San Francisco grand jury found no evidence substantiating FBI accusations of pornography and no charges have been brought against the photographer. The San Francisco City Council has passed a resolution condemning the raid_ Sturges is purs~ing a lawsuit against the parties involved. The experience has transformed Sturges from a somewhat reclusive artist into a symbol and spokesperson concerning freedom of artistic expression. He has been profiled on ABC TV's \20/20\ news program, and he has been the subject of numerous other television, radio, newspaper, magazine and academic/intellectual journal coverages of his case and the related concerns of artists' and individ1:1al rights. He will lecture on freedom of expression and freedom from unlawful search and seizure and how his ordeal has transformed him from a recluse to a national figurehead in the fight against gavernrn ental censorship. Robert Moss To Speak At Albany Institute of History & Art In a le:cture at the Albany Institute of History and Art on Sunday, February 9. at 2:00 p.m., internationally known author Robert Moss will discuss \Sir William Johnson and the First American Frontier,\ the subject of his new novel, Fire Along the Sky (St. Martin's Press, February). A book-signing hosted by the Museum Shop will follow the lecture. Robert Moss is the author of six novels and three works of non-fiction and formerly a lecturer in history and a journalist specializng in international politics and intelligence. Living in upstate New York in the late 1980s, he brought his love of research to an exploration of colonial America. He discovered the colorful career and character of Sir William Johnson - King's superintendent of Indians in the mid-eighteenth century, adopted Mohawk chief - and the perfect subject for the novel of America's frrst frontier that was beginning to take shape in the author's mind. In his lecture, Mr. Moss will describe some of the discoveries and adventures that underpin his novel, which describes Johnson's critical role in the Rebellion of Pontiac. \This was perhaps the last decisive conflict between whites and Indians in North America that Native Americans could have won,\ Moss speculates. \Johnson was a unique phenomenon in American history,\ the author observes. n He presided over an extraordinary experiment in Earn $10.50 I hr. As a Part-Time Sales Representative multi-cui tural understanding, defending Native Americans against white men - including a British commander-in-chief - who were embarked on a policy of genocide.\ To write Fire Along the Sky Moss devoted several years to exploring the scenes of Johnson's youth in Ireland, researching the colonial archives in the United States, Canada, Britain and France, ana immersing himself in Indian life, learning the ctllture and mythology, language and oral traditions of the Mohawk people. The result is a novel that has been hailed by early reviewers as a \splendidly researched and wildly amusing historical adventure\ (Kirkus Reviews) and a \stylish... always engrossing tale ring[ing] with authenticity in both fact and spirit\ ( P u b I i s b. e r s Weekly). For more information about this program, please contact the Albany Institute At (518) 463-4478. Winter Concert Series Commences by Ned Walley Arts Editor The Winter Concert series is .kicking off this Friday, January - 24, featuring the Glen Velez Trio. A renowned and experienced group, Glen Velez . leads with his masterful interpretations on the frame drum. Dating back to Biblical · times, the frame drum is the forefather of the widely used tamborine in the United States. But it has also fostered other instruments throughout Ireland, Brazil, Egypt, North Africa, to · name a few. The frame drum consists of merely a frame of wood or metal,. a membrane, and possible some jingles or a stick. Velez talks of his instrument's ma11euverability, \The instrument has such a long tradition in so many places, it's small and maneuverable, and it lends itself to an endless variety of ways to be struck and bounced and tapped and mo~ed.\ On Friday, Velez will be leading the trio which consists of Randy Crafton, a second percnssionist and former student of Velez/s, and Steve Gorn, who plays the bansuri, an Indian wooden flute. Crafton left the Albany symphony to explore percussion instruments and musical variations from around the world. Gorn also has a11 interesting musical past, first studying European classical music and jazz, and then venturing off to Japan, Indonesia, and India to study their classical and folk music traditions. The Village Voice says, 11 Giea Velez and company are as close as anyone's come to the universal crossover group ... Their rhythms are classic, their melodies romantic, their technique astounding.\ With such high praise, and experience, this Friday's concert promises to be very entertaining. The concert is going to be held in the performing arts studi(} and will begin at 7:30 p.m. WINTER CONCERT SERIES FEATCRINQ FRAME DR<IMS Friday, January 24 WORLD MUSIC FOR FRAME DRUMS ANDFLOTE Glen Velez Trio Glen Velez, drums Steve Gom, flutes Randall Crafton, drums Friday, February 7 WORLD MUSIC AriD DANCE Interactive Dance Olivier Heuts, Susan Christensen Randall Crafton, drums Psi-U Rush Function Friday, February 21 WORLD MUSIC IN CHAMBER MUSIC New Renaissance Chamber Artists Amy Platt, clarinets Janet Axelrod, flutes Randall Crafton, drums Friday. February 28 WORLD MUSIC AND JAZZ Randall Crafton, drums Tom Ross, voice and guitar Jeff Fuller, bass Free Admission to Conceits /loll concerts 7:30p.m. Information: (518) 370-6201 * FlEXiblE Houns * PART ... TiME * No ExpERiENCE NEcESSARY * All MAjons AccEpTEd Superbowl & Wings 6:00 PM Sunday POSITIONS AVAilABLE IN THE SCHENECTADY AREA Call: (201) 408-5558 A'l'~ Rush Spaghetti Dinner Sat., Jan. 25 6:00 pm Richmond Lounge

Shining Through \Shining Though,\ a romantic adventure set in World War II and starring Michael Douglas and Melanie Griffith, opells Jan. 31st. A David Seltzer Film produced in association with Sandollar Productions, \Shining Through,\ starring Michael Douglas and Melanie Griffith, is written for the screen and directed by David Seltzer, and based on the best- selling novel by Susan Isaacs. The film, which also stars Liam Neeson, Joely Richardson and John Gielgud, is presented by Twentieth Century Fox. in association with Peter V. Miller Investment Corp. Howard Rosenman and Carol Baum are the producers, and Sandy Gallin and David Seltzer are the executive producers. Nigel Wooll is the co-producer. Melanie Griffith stars as Linda Voss, .a secretary from Queens, New York, who volunteers for a mission within Nazi Germany. A Golden Globe winner and Academy Award nominee for \Working Girl,\ Griffith has risen to acclaim since making her film debut opposite Gene Hackman in 1975's \Night Moves.\ Her recent credits include \Paradise \Something Wild\ and \Pacific Heights.\ Michael Douglas stars as Ed Leland, the OSS boss who sends Linda into Germany and then risks his life to rescue her. An Oscar winner for Best Actor in Oliver Stone's \Wall Street,\ Douglas has had great critical and commercial success as an actor in such films as \The China Syndrome,\ \Fatal Attraction,\ \Black Rain,\ \Romancing the Stone,\ \Jewel of the Nile\ and \The War of the Roses.\ He also won an Oscar for producing \One Flew.Over the Cuckoo's Nest\ in 1975. Joining Griffith and Douglas are Liam Neeson (\Darkman\) as the Nazi officer whose home is infiltrated by Linda, the legendary Sir John Gielgud (best known t() filmgoers for his Oscar-winning role in \Arthur\) as Linda's contact, \Sunflower and Joely Richardson (\King Ralph\) as a German woman who becomes Linda's friend. Writet/clirootor David Seltzer began his film career as a screenwriter (\The Omen,\ \The Othet Side of the Mountain\). His first credit as both writer and director came on the much-;l<>ved coming-of- age drama \Lucas starring Corey Haim, Charli~ S h~r:n and Winona R:yder, followed by the bitterswe~t \Punchline which starred :Sally Field and Tom Hanks in a story about the difficult 1Iiv·es of stand-up comics. Acclaimed cinematographer Jan De Bont ('\Flatliners \The Hunt For Re~l October\) is the director of photography, Anthony Pratt (\Hope and Glory\) designed the production, Marit Allen (\Mermaids\) created the costumes, and Craig McKay (\Silence of the Lambs\) is the editor. \Shining 'Jbrough\ was filmed on locations throughout Germany, with production beginning just two days before the country .celebrated its official reunification on October 3, 191)&. Skidmore National Festival Draws Young Comedians from Across the Naiion The National College Comedy Festival returns t() Saratoga Springs on Friday and Saturday, February 7 and S. Comedy and Improvisation troupes from some of the nation's leading schools will give public performances. The Festival will feature over 100 students from Brandeis, Brown, Cornell, Kenyon, Notre Dame, Skidmore, Trinity, Vassar, Williams, Yale, and . the Universities of Arizona, Maryland, Michigan, and Southern California. The material performed by the groups will be as eclectic in style and content as the groups themselves. On their own campuses:, student groups may parody university concerns such as Tuition Costs or Health Services, yet at the Festival students will appeal to a tougher audience one of peers and professionals. Sketches may satirize everything from the Presidential Candidates to U.S. Foreign Policy to National Economic Concerns. Some groups bave no written material and improvise sketches based entirely upon the audiences' suggestions. Along with the troupe performances, individuals from different colleges will improvise together - also known as \comedy sports,\ - competing for laughs. The nights' performances will be observed and critiqued by veteran comedy actor Norm Holley of The Second City one of the countries lealding comedy groups. MOVIES In the grand satirical tradition of The Second City, comedy groups are springing up acoss the country t() mirror, mock, and magnify our daily lives. For over thirty years, The Second City Ius been at the foreground of political and social satire. Alumni of The Second City include John Belushi, Dan Ackroyd, Alan Aida, Mike Mrers, and George Wendt Performances are Friday, February 7 at 8:00 p.m. and Saturday, Febrttary 8 at 7:00 and 9:30 p.m. at the Skidmore College, Ja11et Kinghorn Bernhard Theater, Saratoga Springs. Tickets are $5. Call 584-5000 \-2347 for reservations ()1 further infor- mation. Jan. 24-26-DEAD AGAIN Fri./Sat. 7 & 9 pm (Fri (ss016) Sun. 7, 9, & 11 pm Jan. 29-THE BELLY OF AN ARCHITECT Wed. 8:30 pm-CC 302 Do You Want VISA & MasterCard Credit Carets? Now you can have two of .the most recognized and accepted credit cards In the \mrld ... Vlsa®and MasterCard8 credl t cards ... \ln your name.\ EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN CREDIT or I-lAVE BEEN 1URNED DOWN BEFORE! VISA® and MasterCard~ tile credit cards you deserve and need for- 10-BOOK&-DEPARfMENT STORE&-TUrnON-ENJERTMNMENT- EMERGENCY CASH-- TICKETS-RESTAURANTS- HOTELS-MOTELS-GAS-cAR RENTALS- REPAIR5-AND TO BUilD YOUR CREDIT RATING! QUARANTEEDI VISA/MASTERCARD GUARANTEED 111\JE OR IIONI'Y lACK Approv.U absolutely gu11.ranteed so MAIL THIS NO RISK COIJ.P-ON tODAY . Natasha_'s~tars '·. · ... ARIES ~March 21-April 19) You heat up the day and the night as the week begins though by midweek, you need (you must have) precious R & R or else. You do manage to get some work done. The bad news or maybe the good news is you're up to no good AGAIN by the weekend. Have you considered taking an early vacation? TAURUS (April 20-May 20) Your creativity oozes from every pore this week, though Y\'u must look at a domestic issue as the week begins. For some unknown reason, we find you working hard, yes, very hard toward the weekend. Over the weekend, let a loved one take you away to the Casbah. GEMINJ (May 21-June 20) You definitely have your priorities in line this week. And you are one of the few signs that seems to be grounded. Check out a long-term investment though you may need to mull it over. Laughter surrolUlds you later in the week. Count on a long and glorious weekend. CANCER (June 21-July 22) You may feel like the switchboard of life this week, since everybody needs to talk to you, get your advice, needs a phone number, etc. You short circuit later in the week. Tills is a time to make your needs top priority. You recuperate over the weekend to finish the weekend with a wallop! LEO (July 23-August 22) You are the 'personality kid' as the week begins (you are generally anyhow) - however you need to take a look at the boring side of life midweek. You perk up again by the weekend and fizz (just like champagne) into the weekend. You don't have te> go far to find the action. It's all around you. VIRGO (August 23-September 22) You start the week on a down cycle but not for long. You become a veritable force to deal with by midweek. What's this? Your wish is another • s command. Make the most of it; it's short lived. Before splashing into the weekend, check out finances. You may decide to play it low keyed. Top 1·0 Singles 1. IIammer \2 Legit 2 Quit,\ (Capitol) Last Week: No. 2 2. Ce Ce Peniston \Finally (A&M)No.3 3. Hammer \Addams Groove,\ (Capitol) No. 8 4. George Michael/Elton John \Don't Let The Sun Go Down On Me,\ (Columbia) No. 7 5. Genesis \No Son Of Mine,\ (At- lantic) No. 5 6. Nirvana \Smells Like Teen Spirit,\ (DGC) No. 6 7. Shanice \I Love Your Smile,\ (Motown) No. 9 8. Prince And The N.P.G. \Diamonds And Pearls,\ (Paisley ParkJWamer) No.IO 9. U2 \Mysterious Ways,\ (ls- land/PLG) No. 13 10. Mariah Carey \Can't Let Go,\ (Columbia) No. 1 LIBRA (September 23 -October 22) Don't stand on ceremony as the week begins. However, stet> back and take another look. Some soul searching (as well as imagining how it feels to be another) takes you a long way. Toward tile weekend, you bearn into the social scene. Wherever you go, there ·s spe- cial magic, all weekend long. SCORPIO (October 23-November 2!). Make the most oh boss· focus on yoll. You could be nervous - or make tl\e most of it You have reason to celebrate midweek, and you'll do so until the weekend when reality hits. Seems as if you need to get a lot done and rather quickly at that_ SAGI'ITARIUS (N<>vember 22- December 21) Your creativity is high (and practicality lo'W) as the week begins. You can't get agrasp on what's going on until someo11e tells you point blank. Focus on work till' the weekend when you find you'reready to social- ize. )uch highs and lows!! CAPRICORN (December 22- January 19) You are ready, willing and able as the week begins. Let another know where you're coming from. You're off on adventUies through to the weekend when you must (alas) be responsible. Your more convivial side comes out. How you enjoy the lighter side of life, Capri com. AQUARIUS (Jamxary 20-February l&.)Letanother take the lead this week. (This is only temporary, since the sun is in your birth sign right now.) If you play follow the leader just right, by midweek you enjoy a re.al treat. Accept a rnore than appealing adventure (in- vitation) as the weel< ~nds. HAPPY BIRTHDAY, AQUA:RIUS. P[SCES (February ]\)-March 20) You may be a little oLJt of sorts this week. Plugintoworkandyoueven out. Let another seek you out midweek. Take their hand when they offer to take ye>u down a new path You close the weekhappyasaclam afteryoureceive the rewards of a special partnership. Hnumn, not bad. ~ 1992 by King Features Synd. Top 1.0 M~vies · . , 1. Hook starring Robin Williams 2. Bugsy Warren Be~tty 3. Beauty and the !least 4. Star Trek IV William Shatner 5. JFK Kevin Costner 0. The Addams Funily Anjelica Huston 7. Father orthe Bride Steve Mar- till 8. Fried Green Tonatoes Jessica Tandy 9. The Prince of 'Iides Barbra Streisand 10. Rush Jason Patrie ------------------------- :sTUDENT SERVICES.PO BOX 2596,HOLLYWQD~,fl 33022: I YES! I want VISA~/MASTERCARD~ Credit I I I I Cards. Endosed find $15 which is 1 00% refurad~le If not I I approved immediately. I I I I NAME I I ADDRESS I I I I CITY STATE-.ZIP I I PHONE S.S.# I I I I SIGNA lURE I I NOTE: MasterCard Is a reglslered ttademark of Ma!!lterCanllntr:mllitlonal Inc. I I Visa Is a registered lnidenark o( VI~ USA. Inc. IU1d VISA llltrma Ilona! I I &:rvla!S klsoclaUon. 1000/o GUARANTEED! I I I ------------------------- \\\ -

PER!iDI\JA.L§ Happy Birthday you weenie tot! You're the oldest looking I 21-year-old I know. Do I have i to share you with Linus? Only i 8 weeks til Rio. Will I get a : tan or frostbite from the middle • of the cornfield? I'll bring the : saran wrap! Love, Stupid Hey all you Ladies at Union ... ''I'm still wondering why you don't like to be degraded! !\ Love and insults, Mr. \Al:l women want me' Hey, you know who you are. Just go for it - ask her out you fool. I'm waiting. The saddest thing is to see a friend drift away from you. Let's try to stay close, buddy. Rem- Skiing was great! We'll have to do it again sometime. Hopefully, before the wedding. I miss ya! ! Wendy Eppy, Next week we'll be baking down hard. Ahhh! Gotta love senior year .... -Sano Allison in Greece, We miss you! Have fun in the sun. Love, 66 Union To Shirley & Tony ~ The fries are waiting! Come back soon. -Mike's Dog To My Partner in Crime- Cheer up things can only get better. Love, -The one who almost got.. ... To Helimor & Lisa, Enjoy Your Term- But I miss making your turkey sand- wiches. Love. Sari To Julie, Dana, & Angie, Thanks for helping me through the term. Love, The Coke Droppex To Dave, Thanks for your gift in the garbage. -UPSTAIRS U·N·I·O·N·'S WEEK FRIDAY, JANUARY 24 12:15-1:30 p.m. College Center. German and Spanish conversation tables. 2:25p.m. College Center aud. English Department sponsors the film: \La Dolce Vita.\ 7 & 9 p.m. SS106. Film: \Dead Again.\ 7:30p.m. Arts Studio. Winter Concert series \World Music for Frame Drums & Flute.\ 7:30p.m. College Center aud. Alpha Phi AI· pha and the Film Committee present \Eyes on the Prize.\ SATURDAY, JANUARY 25 Noon. Memorial Field House. Jayvee men's basketball vs. Albany. 2 p.m. Memorial Field House. Men's basketball vs. Kings Point. 4 p.m. Memorial Field House. Women's bas- ketball vs. Binghamton. 7 p.m. Achilles Rink. Hockey vs. RPI. 7 & 9 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \Dead Again.\ SUNDAY, JANUARY 26 9 a.m. Memorial Field House. Men's and women's track. Union Invitational. 6 p.m. College Center 302. Super Bowl party. 7, 9 & 11 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \Dead Again.\ 7:30p.m. Old Chapel. Protestant worship. 7:30p.m. St. John the Evangelist Church. Catholic Campus Ministry. MONDAY, JANUARY 27 8 a.rn.-5 p.m. College Center 410. Senior picrurcs. 8 a.rn.-9 p.m. College Center 305. Arts De- partment exhibition: cartoons by Warren Miller of The New Yorker through Feb. 2. 12:15-1:30 p.m. College Center. French con· versation table. 7 p.m. College Center aud. Lecture by pho- tographer Jock St:urges. TUESDAY, JANUARY 28 8 a.m.-5 p.m. College Center 410. Senior pict:ures. 11:30-1 p.m. Hale House. Faculty soup and beverage club. Noon. College Center 406. The Staff Asso- ciation sponsors a Diet Workshop Infonna- tion \Open House.\ 12:15-1 p.m. College Center. Chinese con- versation table. 2 p.m. College Center 404. Bible study. All welcome. 3-4 p.m. College Center 204. Big Brothers/ Big Sisters 'drop-in' meeting. 4 p.m. Memorial Field House. Jayvee men's basketball vs. Hartwick. 6 p.m. Memorial Field House. Women's bas- ketball vs. Hartwick. 6 p.m. College Center 302. Crosstalk/ dramatic readings. 6:30p.m. College Center aud. English film: \La Dolce Vita.\ 6:30-7:30 p.m. College Center 404. Newman Club meeting. 7:30-8:30 p.m. College Center 404. Video series: \Our Catholic Creed.\ 8 p.m. Memorial Field House. Men's basketball vs. Hartwick. 8 p.m. Memorial Chapel. The Minerva Hour/ Bicentennial Lecture with Dinesh D'Souza, speaking on \The Politics of Race and Sex on Campus.\ WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 29 8 a.m.-5 p.m. College Center410. Senior pictures. 9:30a.m.- I p.m. College Center atrium. The CDC sponsors a community service fair. 12:15-1:30 p.m. College Center. German and Spanish conversation tables. 12:30-1:30 p.m. College Center 409. Women's Commission & Women's Studies speaker, Carol Rivers, Lt. Commmder, Coast Guard Reserve, on \An Officer and a Gentlewoman.\ 7 p.m. College Center aud. The Arts Department sponsors a Jaffe Series lecture by Warren Miller, a cartoonist for The New Yorker. 8:30p.m. College Center 302. Film: \The Beliy of an Architect.\ THURSDAY, JANUARY 30 8 a.m.-5 p.m. College Center 410. Senior pictures. Noon-2 p.m. College Center. Chess table meeting. 12:30-1:30 p.m. College Center 406. Investment Club meeting. 7 p.m. Memorial Field House. Women's basketball vs. Albany. FRIDAY, JANUARY 31 9 a.m.-6 p.m. Old Chapel. Bloodmobile. 12:15-1:30 p.m. College Center. Russian and Japanese conversation tables. 3:45p.m. HUM 213. Philosophy Collo- quium: Stephen Stich, Rutgers University, speaking on \Co gnitivc Science and Moral Philosophy.\ 7-9 p.m. College Center409. Bible study. 7 & 9 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \101 Dahnations.\ 8 p.m. College Center 302. Coffeehouse. SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 1 WINTERFEST BEGINS 1 p.m. Alwnni Gym. Men's and women's swimming vs. Hamilton. 6 p.m. Memorial Field House. Jayvee men's basketball vs. Hamilton. 7 & 9 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \101 Dahnations.\ 8 p.m. Memorial Field House. Men's basketball vs. Hamilton. 8 p.m. College Center 302. Mountebanks present \Night of Scenes.'' SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 2 3 p.m. Memorial Chapel. The Museum/ College Concert series presents, Melvyn Tan, on fortepiano. 5 p.m. Old Chapel. Protestant worship. 7, 9 & 11 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \101 Dalmatians.\ I:LA!i!iiFIED!i VOLUNTEERS NEEDED The Reach Out Center (ROC) of Big Brothers/Big Sisters needs stadent volunteers. ROC is an evening recreation and 1 counseling program for kids I ages 7 · 1 7. Volunteers wo:r:k one night per week (Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday) from 6 -8:30p.m. Volunteers help with tutoring, sports, arts and crafts, field trips, ping pong' etc. Student internships can be arranged - Let us know your needs and interests. Please call ROC at 374-4523 for more information and directions to ROC. (Car pooling can be arranged.) VOLUNTEERS NEEDED! Anyone interested in tutoring at local Boys & Girls Club or teaching English as a second language at a local church, please contact Kathleen at 386- 4357 or Box 162. Approximately 1 hour a week, Tuesdays or Thursdays, a car is necessary. Crets$word 11 12 f3 f4 110 pl 6. Gorcey or Carrillo ACROSS 1. Haroor en· trance (Sp.) 5. Labororg. 8. Attack a fly 12. Love god 13. Garden plot 14. Com bread 112 ! 1.) f14 15 f17 .. 7. Appends 8. Pointed weapon 9. Honeysuckle 10. An English queen 11. Hardy girl 16. Twisted 20. Small horse 22. Level 15. Fireplace fuel 17. Eternities 18. Aaron 136 .;m38 23. Dogma 25. Education org. 26. House wing specialty 19. Suit of cards 21. No, in Moscow 24. Sphere ~~r---:t----39140 -r---t\f.:'r~ : ~-4~-r--r--r_, 147 !48 149 27. N.J .. resort 29. A preposition 31. Irish sea god 32. Word with club or fruit 25. Salamander 28. Bl<JOd vessel 30. Every (Scot.) 154 34. Bellow 38. Ballroom lOb -r 33. Samllel's mentor 34. Goodman or Hill 35. Bam 36. Entire amount 37. Pickler's plant 38. Same 39. Morning moisture 41. A weight, in India 157 43. His and Her items 46. Winged 50. Swan genus 51. Place for storing 15 Across 54. Word in Mark 15:34 55. Viper 56. Highest note of tile gamut RubeS By Leigh Rubin A hazardous sodium spill had the usually sluggish tr~~ic moving at a snail's pace. 57. Florida county 58. Affinnative 59. Check DOWN 1. German composer 2. Melville opus 3. Underground stem 4. Passionate 5. Kwa language I . -~ dances 40. Uncanny 42. Youth 43. Drove nail slantingly 44. Spicy stew 45. Vacillate 47.Egyptian season 48. Far: comb. form 49. Cheese town 52. Chemical suffix 53. WWITorg. --- (2-7 Critics panned the minimalist art exhibit, claiming it was nothing much to look at. \That was my favorite drum ... You can either pay to h~ve it fixed or I can take it out of your hide.\

LANGUAGE LAB. HOURS Daily: . Monday-Friday 8:30-4:30 Evenings: REHERSAL TONIGHTI Union College Pep Band 6:45 PM CC302 'Last Rehersal Before the RPI Gam·el GEOLOGY COLLOQUIUM Today, JANUARY 23, 4:00 PM Jeff Tepper - Lafayette College Water and the Origin of Granite: An example from the North Cascades, Washington State Dr. Tepper will discu•s the origin of the Chilliwack Batholith (earl}· Tertiary) which 5traddles the US/Canada border in the North Cascades of north central Washington Stale and southern British <l<>lumbia. His ·research is based on field studies in Ibis rugged and dramatic land•cape, and extcn!<ive lab work wbicb was aimed at characterizing the chemical and isotopic character of the inlrusive .rocks in this p111tOnic suite. His Sll!dics• give us an indication or the amount and type of crustal material that was involved when the intrusive rocks of tho Chilliwack batholith were formed as a result of subduction or the Juan de Fuca (or Farallon) plate. 4:00 PM, 201 Butter.!ield Hall Environmental Staff Writers NEEDED Please Contact: Susan Fenchel or Carolyn Payne at Concordiensis Office 3rd Floor College Center We Need Your Help! Monday-Thursday 7:00-10:00 3:00-5:00 com-muniTY SERVICE FAIR ,WED., JAn. 29 NEWS FROM THE STUDENT ACflVITIES OFFICE RE: PROCTORS THEATRE 1:00-4:00 7:00-10:00 9:30-l :00 CC A1'RIUffi Representatives from local community service organizations will be in the College Center Atrium to ~ with students about volunteer opportunities in the Schenectady area. QUESTIONS?? Call the Career Development Center at 370-6176. BIOLOGY MAJORSIINTERDEPARTMENT AL MAJORS ... All Biology majors and interdepartmental majors are invited to attend a department- sponsored meeting on MONDAY, JANUARY 27th at 4:30 p.m. in Butterfield 204 (the Alps). Students of all classes, freshmen through seniors, are requested to attend. The Biology Department 3.5\ DISKS FOR SALE $1.50 for use in IBM, Macintosh, and other computers Now Available in: Consulting Desk- Steinmetz 1 02 C.S. Crisis Cneter- Steinmetz 227 Prof. Mazur- Steinmetz 231 TICKErS LEFT FOR THE JERRY SElNFELDSHOW APR9 SPM The following shows can be purchased at discount in groups of 20 or more. Call Proctor's 382-3884 or check with. the Student Activities Office. rm 408 College Center. CINDEREllA GYPSY Bobby McFerrin (Don't worry be happy) Grand Hotel 'IRU and many more THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT and THE BIOLOGY CLUB Prese1t The Potential of Molecular Genetic Analysis: I. High performance Plastics Made with Fungal Enzymes II. Amplification of DNA from South American Mummies Joe Salvo, General Electric Research Development January 16, 1991 at 4:40. Social Sciences 104 Refreshme:1ts 4:30 Buffalo Bills vs. To be considered for financial aid, you need to APPLY! On Monday~ January 27, 1992 photographer Jock Sturges will lecture about his photographs at Union College 9 Schenectady, New York. The lecture and slide presentation will be at 7 pm in the College Center Auditorium. For more information~ please can 3 70-6201. Washington On the 8' Redskins Screen Upperclass aid applications are available through the Financial Aid Office in Becker Hall. To be considered for all financial aid programs, FAFs must be forwarded to CSS by March 1. 1992. All other application mate~ials are due to the Financial Aid Office by April 15, 1 992. FREEWlNGS, BEVERAGES & COOKIES Sunday, Jan. 26th Kickoff at 6:00 in CC302 HERE'S JOE COOL APPLY!N6 FOR Flt-IANC!At.: AID ... ARE YOU IN NEED OF THE SACRAMENT OF CONFIRMATION??? jUNIORS AND SENIORS FOR MORE INFO CALL: SR. MARIE #370 .. 6087' COLLEGE CENTER ROOM 404 Ifyou have taken Economics 12, 20, 31, and 42, and if you have at least a 3.0 GPA in economics and at least a 3.0 GPA overall, then you ma.y be eligible to join Omicron Delta Epsilon (ODE), the International Honor Society in Economics. If you are interested in joining, please leave an unofficial copy of your transcript with Mrs. Geraci in the Economics Department office by January 28. lfHm mmm'n WIINTia:JEUF~~vrr If>IRI&~IEN'lf§ WINTER SOLSTICE An Evening of New Age Piano with Scott Hirni '93 Sunday, February 2 at 7:30pm Performing Arts Studio, first Door Arts Buildin& Admission is Free Seatln1 Ill on a flrat come first sened buls A reeeplloa 'Iiiii follow the cBneert ltf!ltffflfllflf!fl The CHUC Rooms (Hu 016 & 018) are open: Daily Mon.-Thurs. 8:30 am-10:30 pm Friday 8:30 am-8:30 pm Weekends: Sat. 12:00 pm-4:30 pm Sun. 12:30 pm-8:30 pm During these time, Macintosh & IBM computers are available for students use (laser copies are 15 cents per page). Bibliography of Fac;ult)' Publication September 1, 1989-August 31, 1991. This is the last notice requesting Union faculty to submit copies of their publications and their activity sheets for the period of September 1, 1989- August 31, 1991 to the Faculty Bibliog-:-aphy Group at Schaffer Lil>rary. The next edition of the Bibliography will be published in the spring of 1992. If you have not already sent copies of your publications, please send them to Ingrida Dambergs at Schaffer Library. GOOD NEWS! Foreign language news pf()grams will be shown in the Language Lab (HU 010). All are welcome to attend. News programs are also transmitted for many other co11ntries and will be recorded 11pon request. Faculty are welcome to borrow tapes. Ordinarily, they are kept in the lab for two weeks. For more information, call Carol Snyder, language Lab Technician, X6212. Language Lab Hours: Mon.-Fri. 8:30am-4:30pm Sun.-Thurs. 7 pm-10 pni Come and watch the news! Schedule: MONDAYS, WEDNESDAYS & FRIDAYS: FRENCH 1:30 PM GERMAN 3:00 PM SPA.t'ilSH 4:00 PM TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS: HEBREW 1:30 PM CHINESE 2:00 PM JAPANESE 3:00 PM RUSSIAN 4:00 PM

Skating Dutchmen Faithful Have Much To learn by Jay K. Varma and Ted G. Rose Union College may be the new kid on the ECAC block, but don't tell that to its fans. On Friday night, 2,504 raucous Union fans packed a slightly antiquated Achilles Rink to support their only Division I athletic team. When the opening Harvard lineup was introduced, the student section pulled out newspapers in mock boredom. The Union fans began cheering midway through an appalling Star Spangled Banner. And throughout the game, the crowd yelped and screamed to pump their team up. Even though the Union fam seem well versed in hocke) etiquette. they still have a littk to learn about the ECAC. First off, where was the band? Seven students wearing Union sweatshirts hanging out in the balcony and waving assorted brass instruments is not a band. Some words of advice to the Union band: do some recruiting (your membership should be at least in double digits), learn some fight songs (the Hartford Whalers theme does not count) and work on some cheers (a good \sieve\ chant would be nice). A message to the Union fans: coordinate. You need cheers,. chants, rallying calls. No self-respecting ECAC crowd would dare to just yell \you ~uck\ at random intervals during the game. It may take time, Union fans, but soon enough you'll be making fools out of yourselves just like all wacky hockey spectators. Lessons from RPI Take heart, Union fans, you don't have to go far to see a real ECAC show. Just travel a couple miles down the New York Thruway to Troy and the home of the Engineers of Rensselaer. While downtown Troy may be equally as repulsive as its counterpart in Schenectady, RPI's hockey show far outclasses that of its new ECAC neighbor and can provide a few lessons. First Lesson: The rink. Forget about the 2,500 capacity, high school bleacher embarrassment. Get something like RPI's Houston Field House, which seats over 5,000 raucous fans. Second lesson: Banners. Check out RensseJaer's banners on top. Every ECAC team has one. The home team has about 50. Third lesson: A minor league team. Get a minor teague hockey team to play in the same rink as your team. Rensselaer has the Capital District New York Islanders skating at Houston Field House. It gives them that air of professionalism. Fourth lesson: Introductions. The Engineers skate ou:t in a dark rink with a spotHght on each player. The band plays scary music and a grimacing b~e skates around and hits things with a hockey stick. Fifth lesson: Cheers. Rensselaer fans shout \Oh shit!\ every time RPI gets a shot-on-goal but doesn't score, and \You suck!\ after each opposing player is introduced. Sixth lesson: The band. The Rensselaer band has about a thousand students playing dozens of different instruments. They start playing about an hour before the game and don't stop until about 30 minutes after the contest is over. Even the 6-0 shutout didn't Note to our Readers: This article was published in the November 20, 1991 issue of the Harvard Crimson Ne~spaper. We have a copy and are passing it on to you. stop them from being incredibly psyched abl~ut tlteir technical school. Follow these lessons f•orn RPI, Union fans, and you'll be well on your way to being ~n ECAC powerhouse. While Army may be !go11e from Division I, its memo:Fy remains strong in the ECA.C .. The Cadets played a illucl hitting, messy style of hockey that, though rarely successful, did manage to frustrate ~nd injure ECAC opponents. After this weekend, Unio11 seems ready to fill Arrny's shoes -- or, rather, combat --boots. Comp.lete Chaos. The Skating Dutchmen lrad no qualms roughing, boldin,g .. cross-checking and generalJy abusing Harvard on Friday night. The Crimson - as it has :ill: the past against Anny - 1took the cue and responded ·with. some bruising of its own. The two teams set the tone. early- six penalties in the f~t 1:32 - and kept up 11Ie lumbering pace throughout the- game. In fact, the sordid affa:ir ' ended the way it began: in complete chaos. With 2:42 left in the game, Union forwa:rd Rick Clifford. beat Chuckie Hughes on the left to bring the Dutchmen within ·One. Then all hell broke loose. Go, Fight, Win After the goal, several Union players began taunting the Harvard bench. What happened afterwards is a little muddled. The two teams scuffled in front of the Crimson bench - a few pushed each other, others just shouted. The referees broke up the melee, mysteriously naiHng only Crimson forward Michel Breistroff with a 10- minute misconduct. As the Union crowd erupted and the referees sorted out the mess with Harvard Captain Kevin Sneddon, Union forward Tim Cregan and Harvard forward Jim Coady began a shoving match at the Harvard blue line. The fans exploded, and the referees raced to separate the two. Both Cregan and Coady were ejected with 1 0-minute majors. Men's Basketb·all Suffers Overt:ime Loss by Jason Graves Sports Writer The men's basketball team is currently in a trend that may doom them to a .500 record for the season. Before the winter break the Dutchmen were enjoying a three-game win streak including a 70-67 championship game win over Haverford in the Connecticut College Tournament. They went away with a 3-2 record. Since the break the Dutchmen have gone 2-3. alternating wins and losses, and never getting more than one game over the .500 mark. Wesleyan and Alfred were the victims of the two wins, while two of the losses came at the hands of Williams and New York University, two talented teams with a combined 17-2 record at the time Union played them. The most recent loss came at the hands of Elmira College on · the road last Saturday. Elmira was 7-5 going into the game and looked slow at the start. Union quickly jumped out to a 11-4 lead in the first six minutes as both teams were selecting their shots very carefully. Elmira tied the game at 11 with a seven point run but the Dutchmen followed with their own big run to take a ten point lead with 3:40 to go in the first half. Both teams played even the rest of the half and Union went into the locker room with a 31-22 halftime lead. Union's first half lead was due in part to the 9 point, 9 rebound performance of junior Greg Dolan. Sophomore Greg Quirolo also tallied up 5 assists in the first half. Elmira came out on fire in the second half playing a great defense and holding Union scoreless for the first four minutes. Elmira was able to score 14 points in this time and took a 36-31 lead. The two teams literally traded baskets until the four minute mark when Union tied the score at 52-aJl. Elmira scored only 3 points the next two minutes but held the Dutchmen to nothing. With only two and a half minutes left the Eagles had a 55-52 lead. At 1:45 sophomore Jamie Donigan hit a three pointer to tie the game at 55-all. The last minute and a half of the game was all a defensive struggle. Following the three pointer freshman Mark Stodden came up with a big blocked shot. one of three on the night. The next trip down sophomore Ken Evans showed great hustle in coming up with a clutch steal. Elmira's final trip down the floor in regulation saw Union's defense smother the ballhandler and a backcourt violation turned the ball over to Union yet again. Union's offense, however, could not capitalize on any of these opportunities and the game went into overtime. The story in overtime was all about Elmira's defense, though, and paired with their clutch free-throw shooting they were able to hold the Dutchmen to only 5 points while they scored 11. Elmira went 6 for 6 fJl'om the line and finished with a 66-60 win. Jamie Donigan was Union's high scorer with 11 points which matched his season total. Ken Evans, Greg Dolan, and freshman Sam Poulis came in second with 9 points. Dolan finished with 12 rebounds while Greg Quirolo and sophomore Luther Winfield each had 5 assists. Union definitely missed sophomore point guard s,teve Evans who will probably be lost for the duration of the season. Evans, who was averaging 10.0 points, 4.4 assists, and playing 31.6 minutes a game in a starting role was injured in the team's previous win over Alfred University. Evans was taclded. from behind as he was driving the lane for a layup early in the first overtime of that game. It turned oat that his arm was broken above the wrist as he fell and left the game. His loss moves Greg Quirolo up to the starting position. The loss of Evans was the only bad part of last Thursday's game with Alfred. The team fought through an initial 10-0 deficit and a later 13-0 run by Alfred and was down by ten at the half 36-26. Union clawed its way back throughout the second half and took its first lead with only 3:46 left in the game 5&-57. Alfred scored its last six points on free throws. Union first tied the score at 63 on a three pointer by Greg Quirolo. With seven seconds left Alfred hit its last two free throws to take a two point lead. Steve Evans brought the ball down the court and to~ed it to Mark Stodden who tossed the ball up almost like a che:st pass. The ball went through as the time clicked off to zero seconds and the game went ill to overtime. The Dutchmen looked Uk:e they had the game wrapped U'P with a 7 point lead with two minutes remaining in or. Alfred was able to tie it 11p, however, with a tbree~point€:r and clutch free throws to 8enc the game to another overtime. The second overtime was all . Union, though as Alfred was outscored 16-4. One of the key players in overtime was juni()r Brendan Chudy who was ~ perfect 44 from the field and 4- 5 from the line scoring 12 oi his 18 points after regulation:. The leading scorer for Union was Ken Evans who shot 70% from the field and fmished with 30 points. Greg Dolan tied for second with Chudy with 18 points. Dolan led the team with 7 rebounds and Steve Evans finished with 9 assists. Greg Quirolo had 6 steals on the night and leads the team with 2 per game. Freshman shot blocker Mark Stodden had another 4 blocks in this game and currently leads the team with 2.5 blocks a game. The Dutchmen play at !Jbany tonight at 8:00. King's Point travels to play Union here at 2:00 on Saturday. Union plays Hartwick at home next Tuesday at 8:00. Please come and support your Union College men's basketball team. FIJI BASKE'I'BALL MARATHON .. ·-·· : .· ~ . .. . . : :, .. ·.. . . ... : :. :· .. . . . . . . To Benefit the Multiple Sclerosis Foundation Febl'uary 7th ,. ·sth To enter a team itt the tournament contact Matt Grabowski or Josh Kaplan at 386-4153 or 386-4169 ; Prizes and Trophies for the Winners.

Luigi Leads Villa's Union 4,5 Saves to Victory Earns ECAC Goalie of the Week Honors in 2-1 Victory Over Dartmouth by Dan Strum Sports Editor The Union Hockey team has embarked on a challenging season in the ranks of the ECAC Division I. The team recruited some solid players in the hopes that they may add to the Union Hockey tradition. One of the members of the freshman class who seems up to the task is goaltender Luigi Villa. His solid play in net has been one of the keys to Union's success thus far this season. For his outstanding achievements throughout the past week. Luigi Villa has been named Concordiensis Sports Athlete Of The Week. Villa, who hails from Mississauga, Ontario, played his junior hockey for the Wexford Raiders. He led his team to the Metro Junior League Championship as they posted a 28-0 team record. In addition, his Raiders won the Prep School Tournament which was held at Union last year. This year Villa has shared tile goaltending job with Freshman Mike Gallant. V ilia was the winning goaltender in Union's dramatic 2-1 overtime win .at Dartmouth this past. 5-5. This game may have been Friday. He managed to make an . his best performance of the amazing 45 saves on 46 shots. ~ season as it is being slightly There were a couple of saves <overshadowed by his first out of these 45 which deserve victory against Dartmouth. extra attention. These were the In addition to Villa's fine 'kind of extra efforts whicll play this season. Coach Bruce single.:handedly kept Union in Delventhal has been pleased Luigi Villa the game. Villa came up especially big at the end of the third period as he stood firm under· a number of flurries in front. These spectacular saves did not go unnoticed as Villa received ECAC Goalie of the Week honors. In addition to the Dartmouth game, Villa came up with an incredible showing in the Yale game as Union tied with Villa's work ethic and attitude. \We are fortunate to have two fine young goaltenders this season\ says Delventhal. \Whether or not I:uigi is playing, his head is _always in the game\. In a starting role, Villa directs the defense from the ice, whereas if he is on the bench, he can still be heard barking to the defense to pick up their checks. \He is a positive influence to all of his teammates\ remarks Delventhal. \Luigi's best days m-e still ahead of him\. The Skating Dutchmen have toyed with the idea of settling down with one hot goaltender. 'Villa's fine play has put him in a position to possibly earn this distinction. He is scheduled to start against RPI this upcoming Saturday night. Once again, congratulations and continued success to Luigi Villa, Conc&rdiensis Sports Athlete Of The Week. Capital District Islanders UPDATE by Jeff Googel Sports Staff A mere twenty minutes away from the Union College campus lies one of the best kept secrets in professional sports which remaim virtually untapped by Union students. The Capital District Islanders of the American Hockey League, who call RPI's Houston Field House horne, have been battling for the top spot in the league's Northern Division since the first game of the 1991-92 season. Led by fiery head coach B utc~h Goring of New York Islanders fame, the Capital District Islanders have proven that they have the right mix of experienced veterans and skilled younger players to win games consistently. Last year at this time, the ·.Islanders were buried in the standings. The teall' finished their inaugural season with a ·~paltry 28-43~9 record, good for 65 points, a mere four points ahead of the cellar-dwelling Newmarket Saints. T:1e Capital District Islanders took to the ice this year and quickly dismissed any notion that this year's team would resemble the team of old. Behind goaltending sensation Danny Lorenz and a well balanced scoring attack led by Greg Parks,. the Islanders opened up the season with a 10-game unbeaten string, compiling a 7-0-3 record. The team then played .500 hockey for the better par. of two months, carrying a 17-10-7 record into a grueling six-game in~seven-night Canadian roadtrip that saw the Islanders drop six straight taues, three of them one-goal >lecisions, thus bringing their record to 17-16-7. Apparently, all the Capital District Islanders needed to do to get back to their winning ways was to return horne to the friendly confines of the Houston Field Ho11se where tliey snapped their six game losing streak by shutting out tile Northern Division leading Springfield Indians 1-0 in front of 3,211 fans. Playing off that big victory, the Islanders are currently unbeaten in their last four games, going 3-0-1 during this stretch, boosting their record to an impressive 20-16- 8, and putting the Islanders only two points behind division leading Springfield. fslander Notes: Upcoming 1 llome games include encounters ~ith the Fredericton Express {Jan. 25), Adirondack Red Wings (Jan 29), and the Boston Bruins minor league affiliate, t11e Maine Mariners (Jan. 31) , •. Students can purchase tickets at a special $5 rate by showing a college I.D. at the Houston Field House box ()ffice ... The Capital District Islanders General Manager is ·11one other than Dave Hanson, ()lle of the three \Hanson\ ~~tothers featured in the smash ·111ovie hit \Slapshot.\ chach alk by John Schachnovsky Spo:-ts Editor Enough already! Coach Levy and Coach Gibbs, enough is e1mugh, get your teams on .the field and start playing. Tllese two weeks between the championship games and the upcoming Super Bowl ltave felt like an eternity. There have honestly been times th.is past week that I have forgotten what the Super Bowl is. It has been 14 days sinc;,.e the last snap of an NFL foot'l)all game. do :you realize what has occunecl in these past 14 days. There II.ave been two different NCAA basketball polls, The NHL has ended play for the first half of the season . . . had their All-Star Game ... and is now embroiled in the sec~md half of lhe season, for heaven's sake. The last time I saw a live NFL game (I say live because ESPN has shown the greatest Super Bowls about 1 million times the past 2 weeks), Bill Walsh was an NBC analyst. By the time the Super Bowl is played he will have finished spring practice at Slal1ford. The point is: I'm bored!!! Who in the. hell needs r11ese two weeks off in the first place. Well the NFL certainly doesn't Starting next year this two week S) stem is over. NcxL year is the start of the 18 week/2 byt~ system. Which includes onl:r a one week break between the NFC/AFC championships and the Super Bowl. But that's next year. This is 1991-92 and I'm BORED!! Well, toillty is Thursday and for those of you who might still have forgotten, the Super Bowl is tt.is Sunday. The Buffalo Bills are playing the Washington Redskins at the Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Washington is a 7 1/2 point favorite. As you all know, there is no way I can finish this article without giving my prediction for Super Bowl Sunday; so here Lhc:y arc: Super Bowl Washington 28 Buffalo 20 Bud Bowl Bud Light 28 Bud27 *Super Bowl Extra - .Don't worry Bills fans, at least Scott Norwood won't have a major impact on this year's loss. ** Bud Bowl Extra - I know I am not alone when I say that I hope and pray that the dork from the Bud 13 owl commercials does not win the million bucks. Union Ski Continued from page 2() overall Glahn placed third. for the Dutchmen and nineteenth on the course, while rookie Josh \Wilnott\ Kane, in llis varsity debut, placed fourth for the team and twentieth overall. Landa once again led the 'IOVay for the women and finislled second on the course, giving her a silver medal to complement her bronze. Suslli, again took second for the Boardwomen and seventh overall. While J amies<m, skiing in Zamansky's infamous banana suit, placed third fC>r the women and tenth on tile course. SUPPORT UNION The weekend was a dramatic success for the Dutchmen skiers. A strong returning upperclassmen contingent, combined with a sound rookie class, has given the men's and women's team the strong balance that has been lacking in previous years. While in the past, qualifying for the Eastern Championships seemed like a lofty goal, this year it appears as a very attainable conquest. This weekend the Dutchmen travel to Lake Placid for two races at Whiteface Mountain, eager and determined to bring home more hardware. p 0 R T

DUTCHMEN RECAP SPORTSWEEK HOCKEY Uniom 2 Dartmouth 1 (OT) MEN'S BASKETBALL Union 93 Alfre<l 81 (2 OT) Elmira 66 Union()Q (OT) MEN'S SWIMMING Union 155 RPI B8 Hartwick 130 Union 103 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL Union 51 Skidmore 50 Union 77 North A.dams 52 WOMEN'S SWIMMING Unbn139 RPI 76 Union 160 Hartwick 83 WOMEN'S ·BASKETBALL Jan. 23 vs. Hamilton Jan. 25 vs. Binghamton Jan. 28 vs. Hartwick MEN'S BASKETBALL Jan. 23: at Albany Jan. 25 vs. Kings Point Jan. 28 vs. Hartwick HOCKEY Jan. 25 vs. RPl MEN'S a WOMEN'S SWIMMING Jan. 25 at Rochester Sprints Jan. 29 at Middlebury MEN'S & WOMEN'S INDOOR TRACK Jan. 26· Union lnlfitational <Hsnrorbirnsis JANUARY 23, 1992 7:00 4:00 6:00 8:00 2:00 8:00 7:00 12:00 4;00 9:00 Skating Dutchmen Gain First ECAC League Victory Dramatic 2-1 Overtime Win Lifts .. Un;on Out of Last Place Union Skiers Rock In Opening Meet by Dan Strom Sports Editor Union travelled to Hanover, N.H. this past Friday tc face Da£trnouth in their first meeting of this new Division I season. The Dutchmen came in with a 0-9-1 league record while Dartmouth had a 1-8 reccrd. Union has a (1-3) lifetime record against the Big Green. One of the noticeably weaker teams in the ECAC, Dartmouth was targeted as a tearn which Union c<>uld face an<l possibly notch their first victory. The teams wer~ set to faceoff in front of !l sparse crGwd of 1017 at Thcmpson Arena in a game that would mal<e history. The Slating Dutchmen found themselves in an -up and down game full of many chances, opporttmities, anc[ heroic defensive efforts. This hard fought battte could not be settled in regulation as it was sent into overtime:. P.oth teams had a coaple of go()ltd chances in overtime, but this. was overshadowed by the goaltending. Late in the ov~rtime period, Dalton Me11hall took a coi11cidental roughing penalty whicll Ieft the teams skating four (}n four. With 20 seconds left in the game, Union had a faceoff deep This Week In: HOCKEY in the Dartmouth zone. Craig Ferrero made a spectacular move as he pushed the draw forward. He then beat another defenseman and went in alone. Ferrero got off a quick low shot, but he was denied. The puck slid behind the net and the scramble was on. Senior Scott Whitney pinched in and got the puck to Bill Railton. Railton controlled the puck and centered it back to Ferrero. Witllout hesitation, Ferrero jammed the puck home with 10 seconds left in the game to lift Union to a 2-1 overtime victory. It was their first win in ECAC Division I play. More importantly, this victory lifted Union out of the basement and into 11th place ahead of 12th place Dartmouth. Interestingly enough in ECAC play, the top 10 out of 12 teams make the playoffs. Union is in 11th place with 3 points behind lOth place Vermont (5 pts) and 9th place RPI (6 pts). No one is claiming championship contention, but one has to agree that it would be an extremely commendable achievement if the Dutchmen were to qualify for the playoffs in their first season rather than sitting back content on the pre- season predictions. SATURDAY January 25 vs RPI 7:30 p.m. The opening period was a defensive battle as each team was trying to feel out their opponent. A scoreless first period on the road in this tough ECAC league can be considered a fine accomplishment. At 3:53 of the second period, Union opened up the scoring. Freshman Dean Goulet scored his first goal of the season to give Union a 1-0 lead. It was a pretty goal as Goulet, on assists from Ferrero and Railton, sent a low, hard slapshot past the Dartmouth goaltender. Overtime Period Almost Not Necessary Unfortunately, Dartmouth came streaking in 14 seconds in to the third period to tie the game at 1-1. The play seemed to open up a bit in the third period, but neither team could capitalize. With 40 seconds left in the third period, many Union fans felt that they had been robbed. Rick Clifford carried the puck the length of the ice, circled around the net, and stuffed in the puck for an apparent goal. The red light went on and the Union supporters were in temporary jubilation. Then with a cold- hearted signal to the officials table, the goal was waved off, citing that there had been a man in the crease. Union has to be pleased with their victory. They are no longer in the cellar and their season seems to be going up from here. \After you work hard all season, it's goGd to finally break into the win column\ says Senior Dalton Menhall. Union starts the second half of the season as they face RPI on Saturday night for the second time. Luigi Villa will be in the pipes as faceoff is at 7:30. by J, D. Sollinger Sports Staff The weekend of January 18th proved to be an auspicious debut for the 1992 edition of the Union College Men's and Women's ski team. In what coach Jim Schaeffer tabbed as \the most successful weekend in Union Ski Team history,\ the Men took fil'st place honors overall for the weekend, while the women tie:d for the gold medal with the Scarlet Knights of Clarkson University. Competing in tile Adirondack division of the National Collegiate Ski Association, the Dutchmen race against such formidable opponents as RPI, Albany State, Paul Smith College, North Country College, The United States Military Academy, and Clarkson University. Team standings are: derived by combining the times of three of the top five racers on each team. Hunter Mountain, home of the FLID, was the host of newly formed Adirondack division's debut race. Saturday's slalom was higfulighted by the sparkling performance of rookies Jeremy Denise and Brooks Glahn. Denise grabbed top honors for the Boardmen and took horne a silver medal by placing second on the entire course, while Glahn placed second for Union and fifth on the course. Three year veteran Sean Livingston, with the aid of a bottle of pepto bismol, fmished third for the Dutchmen and sixth overall. Junior Josh Goldberg, in his slalom varsity debut, finished fourth for the team and twenty-second overall. On the women's side, rookie Liz Landa led the way for the Union women and finished third on the course, thus. capturing a bronze medal. Senior captain Beth Foley followed close behind by placing second for the Dutchwomen and sixth overall on the course. Junior's Betsy Mitchell and Julie Jamieson rounded out the top fom for the women by finishing third and fourth for Union and tenth and fifteenth overall, respectively. On Sunday, the giant slalom was held on Hunter's steep FIS pitch. For the men, Senior captain Jem Sollinger took home top honors for the Boardmen and placed sixth on the course overall. Sollinger was closely followed by Livingston, who finished second for Union and seventh Continued on . page 19 Write for ~ports .I ,; i

I ,; ' /, C'lt. . ~· Founded at t\tfnio~ College 1877 0 ' • 0 ' I; I 0 • 0 • • 1 • • ' < • r • '- - ' • 0 0 • ' • \ • ' VOLUME CXXI, NUMBER 10 SCHENECTADY I NEW YORK JANUARY 30, 1992 Administration Gives Go.-Abead For Campus Pub by Steven Carr Editor-in-Chief The Student Forum recently released a proposal to set up an on-campus pub in the College Center. The pub idea was rapidly approved by the administration and will hopefully become reality by spring term. However, the question of funding for the project remains an unanswered one. The pub's start up cost is estimated at somewhere • I by Alii Wapner Concordiensis Staff As almost every member of the Union College community knows, the Schaffer Library is in much need of renovation. In the past, students have complained of such problems as excessive heat, excessive delay for inter-library loan materials, and other problems of the like. Moreover, structural engineers recently discovered that the Schaffer Library is now in dire need of repair. The problem lies in the first and second floor stack areas in the 1974 addition to the library. The floor is constructed between $5,000 and $12,000. In addition, while a proposal has been put forth, the details of the plan are far from being workedout. . According to the initial proposal, the pub would be set up in the \pit\ area of the College Center Atrium. The largest area of change would be the construction of a soundproof glass wall at the front of the pub area. This would allow the .pub to have bands· perform without disturbing the entire College Center. Tile pub would also of ten incn thick concrete slab plates supported by columns. When the SO' x 168' addition to the library was first constructed, engineers measured the deflection of the concrete plates in the problem area. These engineers have continuoasly measured the deflection periodically. According to Jack Maranville, Vice President of Administration and the Director of the Library Advisory Committee, \deflection of the concrete slabs is occwring at a rate faster than what has been projected.\ Moran ville claims that this sagging of the floor is due to the immense load of books which are shelved in the ·. stacks. Julie Jamieson, a include the wings area which flank the pit on both sides. The right wing, which now contains arcade games, would be converted to a wet bar area. The initial plumbing for the bar already exists as part of the Dutch Hollow. The left wing will be converted into a lounge area including couches and a low maintenance gas fireplace. Furthermore, the patio area in the rear of the College Ce11ter will be available for additional seating during Spring Term. The Student Forum has proposed that the pub be open member of the committee, notes that the most heavily loaded areas are where the changes in floor deflection are the highest. Although the floor deflection cannot be impmved back to the original level until construction occurs, action has been taken to stop the floor from. sagging more than it already has. Over the winter break, books in the most densely loaded areas were moved to balance the weight that the stacks created. So far, Jamieson says, the deflection has been stabilized. Engineers have given the committee suggestions to remedy this problem. They suggest moving the stacks to on Tuesdays, Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays with varying opening hours but closing at two a.m. However, these hours would be changed I to suit the wishes of the 1 students and faculty. It has also been proposed that arcade games from the right wing be moved into the Cabaret Room on third floor of · the College Center. Also, food ~ and drink machines could be ~ put into the Cabaret room ' which could be converted into a game room. Under the proposal, the Cabaret and its other areas of the library and use all stack areas on the: first · and second floors for ether purposes. Moranville says that the committee is in the process of selecting an architect to create plans for renovatiort. The final planning should be concluded \within the co-ming year,\ Maranville says. The comp Jete renovation will be part of Union's bicentennial celebration plans. · Money to finance this · expenditure will come from the · Bicentennial Fundra:ising Campaign. Maranville predicts the cost of the project to be approximately \fourteen million dollars.\ Library director Barbara Continued on page 2 related activities will he staged in the new lounge area of the pub. The more central (and visible) location of the Cabaret will attract more students and faculty members who may stop to :;ee the snow. While the idea of a campus pub has been approved by the administration and a proposal has been submitted, the exact details remain to be decided. According to the initial proposal, the pub would be set in the \pit\ area of the College Center Atrium. To ·this end, Brendan Clifford (Student Forum President), Janet Gray (director of Food Services), Lee Bloomrosen (Director of the College Center), and Rita Stapf (Union's Head Bartender) will be visiting RPI to discuss their highly successful campus pub. In addition, input on the idea from the entire campus community is being eagerly accepted. Once the details are worked out, the project will be put into motion as soon as possible. The goals of such a move are numerous. Supporters of the pub believe that creating an environme11t in which students have the opportunity to drink with faculty and administrators will teach students how to drink responsibly. Also, proponents hope that such a move would transform the College Center into a better environment for the college community to interact. In This Issue: Safety At Union? -page 3 Sex or Football -page 7 Men's Hoop Loses OT Thriller -page 20

Flaws Found In Library Architecture Continued from page 1 Jones was unavailable for comment as to what the proposed plan for renovation is. Maranville says that many considerations need to be taken before any construction can begin. Architects need to decide how library space can be used most efficiently and where to move the stacks from the first and second floors. The committee says that \nothing will happen until the administration decides where the funds will originate and to where they will be distributed.\ Yes, the library is in architectural danger, but the current deflection should not stop students from using the Schaffer Library. Action has already been taken and the Library Advisory Committee is currently planning for a complete Fenovation to insure the architectural soundness of the library. The Dutch Hollow ·Restaurant • IS Now accepting Meal Cards at 6:30p.m. Weekdays CONCOHDIENSIS • JANUARY 30, 1992 • PAGE 2 International Education Bill Courtesy of Senator David - Boren's Public Relations Office The National Security Education Act of 1991, authored by Senator David L. Boren (D-OK), was signed into law by the President recently, creating the largest new bigher education program of its kind since the National Defense Education Act of 1958. The act dramatically increases federal funding of endergraduate study abroad programs and is expected to allow more non-affluent and minority students to study in foreign countries. Currently, only 42,000 American college students study abroad each year-- with 75% of tllem going to five West European countries -- while otller nations send 356,000 college students to study in the U.S. every year. 0nder ·Boren's program, college students selected as \International Exchange Scholars\ will receive scholarships to study abroad for one or two semesters. Priority will be given to students going to countries not emphasized in other U.S. study abroad programs like those in Africa, South America and Asia. \Our entire nation suffers as a result of our ignorance of international languages and cultures and it is my hope that this legislation will provide part of the means to create the international outlook we must have if we are to keep this country at peace and ·sa term by ;,New York ations. Inc., ,, 563~~339, '' llere in Ule nsis office, Becomes Law prosperous. It is certainly n() cure-all, but it is a positive step which I think will ultimately contribute far more to our nation's security than a new bomber or a new battleship. Funding for study abroad sc h. olarships under this program wm be set at $12 million in the first year ·- a ~ tenfold increase from current federal spending levels -- and at least $4 million thereafter. One of the most important benefits of the program will b~ the expansion of study abroad opportunities for non-affluent and minority students. Currently, most students who stud.y abroad must raise private funds to pay for their trips. The National Security Education Act will for the first time allow college students without ind~pendent fmancial means to participate in study abroad programs on a massive scale. Boren's program will also provide fellowships to graduate st11d ents to study foreign lahg11ages and area studies as well as gran\ts ·to universities to create or enhance foreign language and area studies programs. As in the undergraduate study abwad programs, $12 million will be provided in the ftrst year for both graduate fell<>wshi ps and university gnmr:s ad at least $4 million per year thereafter. Priority will be given to foreign languages and cultures under-represe-nted at American universities. Graduate students receiving fellowships under the program will be required to teach or work for a government agency for one to three years for every year the fellowship is provided. \For four dewues, the world came to us and spoke our language. That era is over,\ said Boren. \Now to compete economicaUy and to protect our diplomatic and national .security inte:r:ests, we need to think internationally. This means improving our skills in the areas of international and regional studies and developing more foreign language fluency. If we fail to do .so, we will be ignoring a critical threat to our national security and to our ability to remaiN a world leader.\ Boren noted that while America has de-emphasized international education and language skills since ~he passage of the National Defense Education Act in 1958, our economic competitors have been following the opposite path. Every graduating high school senior in Japan is required to have at least two years of English, and the European Community has announced that by the end of the decade, all high school students will have to be fluent in two foreign languages in order to graduate. In the U.S. the opposite trend is occurring. Fewer and fewer students study abroad or study foreign languages and cultures and schools have difficulty finding foreign language teachers. American college students can earn a bachelor's degree at 77% of U.S. colleges without any foreign language courses. Meanwhile, federal funding of international education has declined steadily from 1.5% of . our total education funding in 1958, to .13% today. This represents 6% of the amount spent by universities and private sources in these areas, resulting in the reduction of new international studies centers and programs being established, a decline in language studies and the absence of non-traditional language courses. . The National Secudty Education Act will attempt to correct these deficiencies by creating a permanent international education trust , fund of $150 million. A one- year appropriation of $35 million was provided to get the program started, and interest on - the trust fund will pay for the program costs in subsequent years. The act wm be administered :,y the Defense Intelligence College with guidelines and criteria for the distribution of funds set by Board of Trustees chaired by the Secretary of Defense that includes the Secretaries of State, Education and Commerce and the Directors of Central Intelligence and USIA or their designees. Senator Boren is Chairman of the Senate Intelligence committee and has served as United States Senator from Oklahoma since 1979. He served as Governor of Oklahoma from 1975-1978 and was the youngest governor in the nation when he took office at age 33. Senator Boren was a Rhodes Scholar, received his undergraduate degree from Yale and graduated f'Irst in his class at the University of Oklahoma Law School. In 1990, he was re-elected with 84% of the vote. Man, 24, Accused of Sex Abuse A Yonkers man visiting Uni()n College was arrested last Wednesday for a11egedly sexually abusing a 21-year-old student, police said. L11is Giancarlo Rodriques, 24, was charged with first- degree sexual abuse, a felony, for tlte alleged Jan. 6 attack in one of the college's dorms, police said. Rodriques is accused of grabbing the woman and touching her sexually. Police also allege he repeatedly kissed her m the neck and attempted to kiss her mouth, police said. He also is accused of pinning Write her arms to her side and her body ~o free-standing closet. Police said tile victim struggled to break free. butcouldn't. Rodriques is a Union College graduate who was staying on campus while exploring graduate studies, police said. He turned himself in Wednesday and was anaigned in City Court. He was released on $2,000 bail pendin!! . reappearance last Monday. Reprinted from the Schenectady Gazette CAMPUS INC I DENT REPORTS 1120 Tampering with smoke detector. Life Safety Fine. 1120 Property damage auto accident. 1120 Distraught student 1120 Assault of non-student by other non-students 1120 Property damage auto accidenthit and run 1121 Property damage auto accidenthit and run 1/21 Annoyance telephone calls 1/21 Unauthorized entry by non-students 1121 Harassment of female student by non-students ·Warned 1122 Theft of answering machine 1122 Minor Fire Conduct charges 1122 Accidental broken window 1123 Tresspass/atternpted theft by students- conduct charges 1123 Unauthorized entry by non-students· warned 1123 Theft of clothing from room 1123 Personal injury auto accident- student- minor injuries 1/24 Theft of textbooks 1/24 Property damage auto accident- hit and run 1/24 Tampering with smoke detectors. life Safety fine 1/24 Failure to produce I.D. at security desk. Conduct charges. 1125 Roads closed - icy conditions 1/25 Failure to produce I D. at security desk. Conduct charges. 1/25 Vandalism- Courtesy telephone 1/25 Cash shortage- possible theft 1125 Altercation among spectators - Union students throwing oranges onto ice 1/25 Harassment of staff members by student. Conduct charges 1/26 Vandalism to.light pole 1/26 VandaJism to entry door panel 1/26 Vandalism to kitchen area

It'll Be Clinton vs. Bush by Jim Polites News Editor In today's advanced age of mass media and extensive television coverage, America's political scene now more than ever thrives on the personality of legislators and candidates, and his/her public perception with the masses. To be considered indecisive, a 'soft-liner', lacking com- passion to the underprivileged, or showing tolerance for extended government power and/or secrecy is generally perceived as electoral suicide. Undoubtedly, there is a growing trend in this nation toward image; the power to convince people that-much separated from substantive issues-through speeches, benefits, and appearances one candidate is better suited than another for office. The impetus to all of this dates back to the Presidential election of 1963, when John F. Kennedy squared off against then Vice-President Richard Nixon. Given Nixon's experience under Dwight Eisenhower and the controversy surrounding Kennedy's practice of Catholicism, conventional wisdom would have dictated that the Presidency remain in Republican hands. As is common knowledge now, the Massachusetts Senator gained a slight victory- in the popular vote (two-thirds of one percent), while outgaining Nixon by &4 ballots in the electoral college. The key to victory? Many assert it was the way Mr. Nix.on performed in televised debates with John F. Kennedy. He came across as embittered, ·easily frustrated, ' and confrontational while Kennedy simply maintained a positive. charismatic tone- one that came to be his accepte<l public identity. I . As t:b.e first Democratic primary approaches (New Hampshke, Feb:ruary 18), candidates are gearing up for the opportunity to challenge George Bush for President. Eight months ago, in tlte wake of war victory, one would have been hard pressed to find more than a handful of optimistic party members. Now though, with national attention focusing back to domestic topics-· paramount of course is the economy-the Democrats seem to be galvanized, suddenly it's not so ridiculous to conceive of a new White House resident Once again, this is where personality comes to the forefront. Tb.e original group of Democrat contenders was labeled early on as one lacking character and visibility: they desperately needed someone to energize their popular surge. New York Governor Mario Cuomo was supposed to provide that spark-renown as As a Southern politician, Mr. Clinton could loosen the Republican stranglehold on the South's rich voting population. a fine orator, he was given the best chance to challenge Bush on a public .debate level. Months of indecision though cost Cuomo dearly. Over the extended period of deliberation, his stock fell appreciably as perception centered on ambivalence rather than virtuous qualities. In all honesty, Cuomo's choice reflects better on the other candidates and his party in general. As the most prominent prospective, he certainly would have gained the Democratic nomination. The problem is, Cuomo handed Republicans early leverage and lines of attack. They could highlight the fact that the Governor-in what would amount to his first verdict-was unable to make up his mind; this is not the type of character that bodes well for a national leader. With Cuomo gone from the potential Democratic ticket, three men have forged ahead as the favorite contenders Paul Tsongas of Massachusetts, Arkansas Governor Bill Clinton, and Senator Bob Kerrey from Nebraska. Of these, Mr. Clinton has ably demonstrated that he's ready to assume the reigns of leadership. Additionally, as a Southern politician he could loosen the Republican stranglehold on the South's rich voting population. On the other hand, Paul Tsongas is recognized first and foremost as a typical Northeast liberal in the mold of Michael Dukakis-he enjoys only regional recognition and will likely fare poorly once primaries move from the East Coast. Bob Kerrey. meanwhile, is attempting to inject his own personal touch imto the race-· running on a line that continually stresses his practice ! of 'conscience' ]JOLitics. i The trouble here though, as ' the New York Times points out this week, is Kerrey suffers from diffidence and a lack of conviction. If ever there's a time to arouse some passion, Mr. Kerrey, it's now. Of course, this only accounts for one-half of lfle Presidential contest that will culminate next November. With George Bush's popularity in a steady decline, the presence of Pat Buchanan and the notorious David Duke will make for some interesting activity with the Republicans as well. That though, is discussion for another day, I'll finish with a prediction: Go-vernor Clinton ,· will be representing the Democrats come national election time. George Bush is no longer a sure thing, and that means the Am~rican public will be treated to some ferocious campaigning and other rapid-fire political activity. Keep in mind that while it is George Bush's Presidency to lose, recent domestic events dictate that the j()b is now out there for the Democrats to win as welL It should make for an exciting ten months indeed. Is Safety At Union An Issue? by Ken Pere1 Contributing Writer \The Pro-Active approach is that, I think what happens is a lot of students who come here think and expect that the college owes them protection. And what I mean from that is that they can sit back and your [Union's Administration and Security services] g<>nna do this for me. Protection doesn't work that way ... Sometimes it becomes very frustrating.\ The security and safety issue at Union College is indeed frustrating. Although many students do not often consider the issues of personal safety, about every student has either heard about a safety issue, or has had an opinion about the Security department as a whole. Ranging from a parking ticket grievance, to a personal safety concern, at one time or another, all students would have commented upon the safety at Union. To a large extent. many of the so-called security issues are either hyper-exaggerations of an actual event, or are otherwise totally fictitious and unfounded. In several cases recently, even legitimate safety issues have been distorted due to personal grievances against either the Administration or Security. In opposition to a Student Forum member who Part One In A Series Of Three stated that a little miscon- ception regarding safety is good for the student body, this essay is an attempt to clarify the commonly believed miscon- ceptions involving safety issues, and dispel many myths involving safety at Union. Safety and Security is not, and should not, be construed as a student verses administrative issue. Safety is an independent concem that everyone at Union has a stake in, and as such, everyone at Union should have enough knowledge on the subject to 'separate the truth from the unj nstifiable accusations of a few disgruntled students. . . . The Security and Safety office we have today ,is the creation of Paul Mantica, who arrived at Union five years ago. Previously, he had served as a Rotterdam police officer from 1967 until 1987, eventually becoming Chief of Police in 1983. Besides his training and on ·the job experience he gained as a police officer, he attended numerous law enforcement schools, including The FBI Management Academy and the Narcotics Investigation School. To better prepare himself for the private security needs at Union, he became New York State Building and Fire Code Certified (as are all his fellow security officers at Union). By his own admissions, I1e was \pretty much in the learning stage on safety issues\ when he first arrived at Union, but he quickly assessed the schools needs, and imple- mented the Pro-Active approach to public safety. As he stated in his Campus Safety Department Report of April 6, 1990 to the Buildings and Grounds Committee: At Union College our primary assets are people! Our security and safety objective is to provide a reasonably secure setting for all members of the Union College Community ... Our goal is to reduce/minimize risk thereby reducing the potential for victimization. Victimization, unfortunately is a real fact ,of life ... Support of the concept of Pro-Active security/safety programming and acceptance of the theory of affirmative duty to protect is key to achieving the goal of reasonable security. For these reasons, Paul Mantica has prioritized safety at Union. First and foremost is people, whether individually or as a group, such as in a fire alarm situation. Second is the protection of buildings, and third, the parking situation. If at anytime an officer is responding to either the second or third priorities, and a call for the first priority is received, all available officers will respond to the personal safety call. To fulfill the above stated mission, the security department has instituted a complex and indepth system of checks. First, there is what could be termed control central. This room, occupied 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, is the center and backbone of Union security. Here, all incoming phone calls are processed, and forwarded to their appropriate recipients. In this room is the modern Honeywell fire safety computer that monitors all fire and safety alarms. Each in~.:uming phome call is recorded, and a complete list of every security assistance call is filed. Between January l and January 21, 102 individual calls were recorded. Ranging from accidenta.l falls, to sicknesses, to safety problems, all calls are recorded. Those calls that require either further investigation explanation arc or explained in a rn()re thorough report filed by the investigating officer. '.

I Wish They Made Mud Flaps For Them Boots! leHOI ·rootball Quotes from the 1992 Superbowl by Andrew R. Rosen Concordien8is Staff Wondering why men sutler from navel fuzz intrusion more than women, I allowed the bolus of post-mono nasal \stuff' to slither where it may, scratched my face, hit my lip and sauntered across a most crispy Library Field. What is it about winter term? AMY's or anti-mate viruses abound everywhere. Flu has jumped from person to person like a rumor and senior after senior is either too depressed because their intesti·nally-stabbing thesis is nowhere near done or hasn't been started yet. As that bald scholar Jeffrey Alan Googel stipulated, making a particular gesture one can only imagine, \This is what I think about thesis ... \. In any event, most people on this campus have acquired a general disdain for Winter Term. Even those that claim to have a fix on the beauty of winter fail to cherish many of the term's whimsical rejections. I, myself, am a proclaimed winter lover (Jules, I still hate the bitter cold) but have many times failed to find tllat amicable kindling for Winter Term. Be it Geraldo or title California Raisins. I feel if s time to elucidate some of those common \jabs\ that tum a fair day into a disaster. As 111 y good friend and true blond Kathleen said about winter te1m, \It sucks.\ Why? Winter Term becomes a battlefield for many personal struggles. For example, everyone must engage in tllat perpetual war against falling gutter droplets. Every entrance t() every building has apparently fallen under siege to these menacing gravitators. Picture the scene: you finally dry your hair, predict the outside temperature (to within 10°), coordinate your :pants/skirt/shirt/sweater/socks/ belt/hat (optional) and make it outside for your 9:45 stop at the College Center before moving on to your ten o'clock. Upon making it, unhurt if yon llaven't fallen walking over one ()f tile few unsalted ice-patches ()n this campus, you encounter a wall of falling drops. Looking up, you realize that only speed and protection can get you through safely. In most cases, however, if an mnbrella is not to be found, we count to three and try to beat the drops. Usually our quest fails while one or two drops make direct hits on our noses or lenses if we wear glasses. There are no reparations and no defense other than paying half your tuition for a Union College umbrella Do whatever you may in the College Center, the same battle will take place at Science and Engineering, Humanities, Psych and every other building on campus. It's on:ly the first of many flies to enter our daily ointment. Many people have a nice pair of khaki, white or beige pants (other colors may apply but these represent the best examples). I, myself, have thrown on a pair of khakis, the remainder of my matching wardrobe and my special waterproof, weatherproof, insu- ated Gore-tex boots. After a walk to class and back, I'll sit before my television to watch Geraldo interview a man on \the rising cost of golf carts and its effect on heavy metal 0 N -L Y T W 0 SPRING HOURS TO BREAK. 1 $599.00 1 Bermuda College \l/ eeks • March 2-28 and Aprt! 6-18 • i ntghts, atrf/Qnd 171clusl\'e. CQII L\pper Umon Travel at 518-346-7474. Or call Travel Turf a: I-Bon-222-4432. - After you hit the books, it's time to hit the beach. Time for .a fTee boat party, a free mystery party, free beach parties, plus swimming, sports, mopeds and more. All less than two hours from the East Coast. Bermuda. So incredible, they named a triangle after it. Not to mention a style of shorts. B E R M u D ~::: ~· A saltaholics-the d~ality of red meat\. As I bend over to remove my \winter\ boots, I notice the splatched rays of brown hell; we all suffer from mud splashes on the back of our pants no matter where we have walked. Across Library Field poses the greatest threat while even the sidewalk from the Skellar to the Nott yields. a 4 7% chance of earthly splashing. There is no way of preventing it other tllan walking only when the ground is frozen. I'm proud to have those boots. Wind sucks. I'm no sailor. I need not walk to class having felt the blast of sub-zero degree wind. Again, I'll take uncountable inches of snow, but wind that seems to gust just as we hit the half-way point between home and our destination leaves me numb. I believe that the amount of time spent on preparing oneself for class-getting dressed, doing the hair, etc ... -is directly proportional to the amount of wind one will have blown on themselves. How many times have you managed to get your hair just the way you want it, go outside and WHOOSH! Luckily, I'm losing my lrair and therefore suffer from no such disruption. To those poor driving souls up campus: how many times does your car need to fall into a water-filled crater before your shocks are shot? It's a rhetorical question, don't answer it. How many sorority sisters do we need to see half- dead from late night rush? How many fraternity brothers do we need to see with false smiles at those \dry\ rush functions? Both rhetorical questions. How many times can we trounce througll delightful Schenectady winter to the library only to 10. lhey're all over him 9. tt's miscom- munication or something '8. He's making the pass 7. Oneofthe outstanding tight ends 6. lhere's a huge hole out there 5. He's going to get in from behind 4. Deep penetration 3. The first pass is the hardest to make 2. Now that's what you call a hole!! 1. He has to go doop and go doop rtght navv find the inside temperature either 58°F or 84 op depending on how close you are to a window? In these times of dejection and depression, what better way to lighten up your day than a casual trip to the College Center. Hopefully you won't fall, freeze or find yourself covered in salt and/or dirt. As I stare at a George Wins ton cover I find it hard to hate winter. As I walk about campus, I find it easy to hate Winter Term. I don't know who or what to blame, but Kathleen was right, this term really does suck. Maybe we need a winter carnival of some sort. Maybe the entire campus should pack into buses and cars and take a road trip somewhere. Who knows. Cabin fever has no cure save Spring Term. It's a dog-eat-dog world out there, and for ten long weeks, we appear to be walking in yellow snow. Macys Goin8 Out of Business ~ale On Nowf Don't Miss Itt

/ E . . ngineering Dreams by Diane Sirois Courtesy of Connections \Sheetrocking is easy,\ Jeff Gower assures a couple of remodeling rookies, who look doubtful. In one fluid motion, he hoists a .big, gray slab of waltboard overhead, butts it into position with his shoulder and fires off a few rounds with a screw gun. anchoring the piece to the wall's e:lposed studs. Getting things off the ground is something that Gower, a 21- year-old senior at Union College (Schenectady, NY), knows how to do. It's a clear blue Saturday morning, and this engineering major is hard at work as part of the team renovating a 60-year-old. two- family home in the city's run- down Hamilton Hill neighborhood. His construction crew consists of 15 Union students, who are volunteering their time and skills. They're here because Gower conceived of an idea for a campus volunteer group called We Care About U-Schenectady (WCAU- S). . This day, like every other Saturday since the project began at 421 Paige Street four months earlier, Gower's crew tumbles out of various cars and a van from the Union student activities organization. Hauling power tools, extension cords and a slew of bag lunches prepared by the campus food service, they file through the newly framed front door and get to work. Gower came to Union in the fall of 1988. He spent his first two years at school doing typical extracurricular activit- ies: \some sports, some socializing, the usual.\ In his junior year, he decided to involve Union in improving the community that surrounds the campus. He sent offers of charter membership in WCAU- S to 30 of his fellow .. engineering students. Their response was exceptional: Fully 25 of the students accepted, and WCAU-S was suddenly an orgP..aization looking for a project. Gower praises his fellow WCAU-S founders as \people with unaffected personalities who got involved because the:y like trying new things.\ The studentS' enthusiasm was matched by support from Union's administration. The college's president, Roger H. Hull, okayed a $2,000 grant that allowed the group to buy tools. Further meetings with college officials :led to forums with several Schenectady housing concerns to select the group that would provide WCAU-S's frrst work site. The winner was Better Neighborhoods, Inc. (BNA), a local nonprofit housing rehabilitation corporation funded by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. Through a cooperative effort with the city of Schenectady, BNI buys vacant and deteriorated buildings, renovates them, then sells the properties to local low-income buyers. What this partnership means for dozens of area families is the opportunity for borne ownership and civic pride where there was none. What it meant for Gower's group was the chance to break out the hammers right away: BNI had 57 derelict houses waiting to be macle habitable. WCAU-S hopes to renovate one house a year. BNI covers the cost of WCAU-S 's building materials and on-site insurance and provides a paid project manager to oversee the group's work. Student volunteers · do everything from gutting the structure to installing siding- just about anything that doesn't require a professional license (as do, for example, electrical and plumbing work). \We bring a lot of made-up, sort-of- skills,\ Gower la11ghs. Gower's expertise \comes from Dad, who tries to fix whatever breaks down around the house.\ Gower has been volunteering his building skills to community groups since his high school days in Lexington, Massachusetts. Back then, he and his friends spent their spare time with a local chUFch youth group that participated in a different housing renovation project each school break. They workied for Habitat for Humanity (see How You Can Lend a Hand, page 18) and other nonprofit groups in cities Jike Baltimore, Mary land, and Portland, Maine, and the experience pointed Gower in a direction he's committed to maintain after he graduates. Gower readily admits ~hat between his schoolwork and volunteer commitments, his social life has become \a real short story. My friends say that I never stop moving, but that makes me happy. I've been in the groove for so long that I can't stop. I can't tell you the last time I sat around and watched TV.\ Civil engineering classes and lab sessions keep Gower busy every weekday from 8 a.m. until 4 p.m. Soccer got the ax when practice time for this sport stated cutting into his scho()l and volunteering schedule. He tries to squeeze in a few hours at 421 Paige Street in the afternoon before a night of studying that rarely ends before one o'clock the next morning. His Saturdays are spent working at the WCAU-S project site. The work required of Gower is not all muscle. The startup date for the current renovation was delayed as Gower scrambled to complete the avalanche of paperwork that is required by each of the governmental entities-from local to federal-involved in the project. Sometimes Gower says lte is frustrated by the relatively small size of WCAU-S's effort. \Building low-cost housing is not enough. 'Dhe real need is for helping people who don't have anything at all,\ he says, noting that a family has to have at least some income to qualify for this low-income shelter. Gower intends to continue his volunteer activities after he receives his degree in the spring of 1992. He is considering studying engineer- ing on the graduate level at Cornell or Columbia University. both of which, he says, \do great community renovation work. After that, I'd love to be involved in something that lets me practice civil engineering-designing bridges and buildings and public spaces-and help people.\ Meanwhile, the project continues at 421 Paige Street. Since tbe inception of WCAU- S, it has expanded from its small crew of engineering majors to include about 100 student members. Some of Lhe students have done construction work before, while others have never even hammered a nail. \Most engineering majors know how to do this,\ explains Tom Duckett, a junior majoring in engineering who has worked in the construction industry in past summers. \But we also have biology majors who don't really know what they're doing, so we try to teach them.\ Gower's second-in-command is Ted Geilen, a junior who is the group's vice president and another of the engineering majors. \You know, after working with books for so long, it feels good to get your hands dirty,\ Geilen says. Gower is telling two students where to start ripping shingles off the roof when he remembers that he hasn't hung the group's banner on the porch. As shingles rain down arollfld him, he climbs a ladder and secures WCAU-S's red-and- white statement of purpose: Union College Volunteers Building Affordable Housing. There will be another house to renovate when this one is completed. Information booths situated around campus and a weekly newsletter attract new volunteers, who will give WCAU-S a good membership base for the future as current members graduate. As with Gower, the members are busy people who manage to donate a few hours to hammer and nail on Saturdays. \I really enjoy doing this kind of work,\ says Tim Judge, a senior pre-med major who is active in the 421 Paige Street project. He pauses, holding an armful of power cords, then continues, \It helps the community, and I feel that I'm giving something back, so I have no trouble making time for it.\ During lunch break, which take place out on the rear deck the students built, several neighbors who've been watching the construction activity wander over to meet and congratulate the crew responsible for this little chunk of urban renewal. Gower gets pushed to the front of the group to handle public relations. He does it with a grin, a firm handshake and an annful of bag lunches to share with his guests. One of the visitors pumps Gower's hand, waves toward the house and nods his approval. \Man you have to do this more often.\ LANGUAGE LAB HOURS Daily: Monday-Friday 8:30-4:30 Evenings: Monday- Thursday 7:00-10:00 Weekends: Saturday 3:00-5:00 Sunday 1:00-4:00 Sunday 7:00-10:00



1 He.nny Penny Said \The Sky Is Falling Down\ Hay A great cloud of bay drifted over the town of Devizes in England at tea time on July 3, 1977. As soon as the cloud reached the center of town, it all fell to earth in handful-size lumps. The sky was otherwise clear and cloudless with a slight breeze. The temperature was 26°C. Golden Rain When yellow-colored globules fell over suburban Sydney, Australia, in late 1971, the minister for health, Mr. Jago, blamed it on the excreta of bees, consisting mostly of undigested pollen. However, there were no reports of vast hordes. of bees in the area and no explanation as to why they would choose to excrete en masse over Sydney. Black Eggs On May 5, 1786, after six months of drought, a strong east wind dropped a great quantity of black eggs on the city of Port-au-Prince, Haiti. Some of the eggs were preserved in water and hatched the next day. The beings inside shed several layers of skin and resembled tadpoles. A 3,902-Lb. Stone The largest meteorite fall in recorded history occurred on March 8, 1976, near the Chinese city of Kirin. Many of the 100 stones that were found weighed over 200 lbs.; the largest, which landed in the Haupi Commune, weighed over 3,902 lb. It is, by more than 1,000 lb., the large-st stony meteorite ever recovered. Money On October 8, 1976, a light plane buzzed the Piazza Venezia in Rome and dropped 500-lire, 1 ,000-lire, and 10,000-lire bank notes on the startled people below. The mad bomber was not found. Soot A fine blanket of soot landed on a Cranford park on ihe edge of London's Heathrow Airport in 1969, greatly annoying the local park keepers. The official report of the Greater London Council said the \soot\ was compose:d of spores of a black microfungus, Pithomyces chartarum, found only in New Zealand. Fire On the evening of May 30, 1869, the horrified citizens of Greiffenberg, Germany, and neighboring villages witnessed a fall of fire, which was followed by a tremendous peal of thunder. People who were outside reported that the fire was different in form and color from common lightning. They said they felt wrapped in frre and deprived of air for some seconds. - Mysterioos Documents The July 25, 1973, edition of the Albany, N.Y., Times Union reported the unusual case of Bob Hill. Hill, the owner of radio station WHRL of North Greenbush, N.Y., was taking out the station garbage at 4:15 p.m. when he noticed \twirling specks\ falling from a distan,ce higher than the station's 300-ft. transmitter. He followed two of the white objects until they landed in a hayfield. The objects turned out to be two sets of formulas and accompanying graphs, which apparently explained \normalized extinction\ and the \incomplete Davis-Greenstein orientation.\ No explanation has been made Pl!blic. Beans Rancher Salvador Targino of Joao Pessoa; Brazil, reported a rain of small beans on his :pr()perty in Paraiba State in early 1971. Local agricultural autborities speculated that a stcrm had swept up a pile of 1Jeans in West Africa and &&pped them in northeastern :Brazil. Targino boNed some of the beans, but said they were t<X> tough to eat. Silver Coins Several thousand rubles' v;orth of silver coins fell in the (]orki region of the U.S.S.R. on June 17, 1940. The official ex::p1anation was that a landslide hld uncovered a hidden treasure, which was picked up by a tornado, which dropped it on :Gorki. No explanation was given for the fact that the coins were not accompanied by any d~'b:ris. 1\-iushroom-Shaped Things - Traffic at Mexico City Ab;port was halted temporarily on the morning of July 30, 1963, when thousands of grayish, mushroom-shaped tbings floated to the ground out of a cloudless sky. Hundreds of witnesses described these objects variously as \giant cobwebs,\ \balls of cotton,\ !lnd \foam.\ They disintegrated rnpidly after landing. Human Body Mary C. Fuller was sitting in ller parked car with her 8- month-old .son on Monday morning, September 25, 1978, ill San Diego, Calif., when a ltuman body crashed through tbe windshield. The body has been thrown from a Pacific S()uthwest Airlines jetliner, wb.ich had exploded after being !tit by a small plane in one of the worst air disasters in U.S. !tis tory. Mother and son s:uffered minor lacerations. Toads Falls of frogs and toads, t:h():ugh not everyday COLLEGE SEMESTER ABROAD ;MR!CA '·,~::,._.,.· ··,:.: ·.· '·/·',':····' ·-.,. < · Meet a CSA Admission Counselor Wed., Feb. 5, - Noon - 1 :00 PM CoUege Center occurrences~ ru:e actually quite common, having been reported in almost every part of tbe world. One of the most famous toad falls happened in tile summer of 1794 in the village of Lalain, France. A very hot afternoon was broken suddenly by such an intense downpour of rain that t50 French soldiers (then fighting the Austrians) were fcrced to abandon the trench in which they were hiding to avoid being submerged. rn the middle of the storm, which lasted for 30 minutes, tiny toads, mostly in the tadpole stage, began to land on the grou11d and jump about in all directions. When the rain let up, the sddiers discovered toads in tllefolds of their three- cornered hats. Oak Leaves In late October of 1889, Mr. Wright of the parish of Penpont, Dlll11fries, Scotland, was startled by the appearance of what at filrst seemed to be a flock of birds, which began falling to th~ ground. Running toward them, he discovered the objects to be oak leaves, which eventually c~nvered an area 1 mi. wide ami 2 mi. long. The nearest clump of oak trees was 8 mi. away, and no other kind of leaf fell. Judas Tree Seeds Just before sunset in August, 1897, an imooense number of small, blood -colored clouds filled the s~y in Macerata, Italy. About an hour later, storm clouds burst and small seeds rained from the sky, covering the ,~ound to a depth of 1/2 in. Many of the seeds had already started to germinate, and all of the seeds were from the Judas tree, which is found pred()minantly in the Middle East and Asia. There was no accompanying debris- just the Judas tree seeds. Fish About 15(} perchlike silver fish dropped from the sky during a tropical storm near Killarney Statio11 in Australia's Northern Territory in February, 1974. Fishfalls are common enough that an \official\ explanation has been developed to cover most of them. It is theorized that whirlwinds create a waterspout effect, sucking up water and fish, carrying them for great distances, and then dropping them somewhere else. Ice Chunks In February of 1965, a 50-lb. mass of ice ,plunged through the roof of the Phillips Petroleum plant in Woods Cross, U. In his book Strangest of All, Frank Edwards reports the case of a carpenter working on a roof in Kempten-near Dusseldorf, Germany-who was struck and killed in 1951 by an icicle 6 ft. loPg and 6 in. around, which shot down from the'sky. Peaches On July 12, 1961, unripe peaches were scattered over a smaU portion of Shreveport, La., from a cloudy sky. Space Junk In Septeml>er, 1962, a metal object about 6 in. in diameter and weighing 21 Ibs., crashed into a street intersection in Manitowoc, Wis., and burrowed several inches into the ground. The object was later identified as part of Sputnik IV, which had been launched by the U.S.S.R. on May 15, 1960. Since 1959 more than 6,000 parts of spacecraft have fallen out of orbit, and many of them have reached the surface of the earth. On July 11, 1979, Skylab, the 77-ton U.S. space station, fell out of orbit over the South Indian Ocean and western Australia. The largest piece of debris to reach land was a one- ton tank. -D.W.

.:··•:.\:;·l· -::_ .. -.· ·_·. ,:· ._·_. · ·. _:_ ·.·_· --- .. · · ·· -· ,· ··.· · ·.:· · -. · · .... L·· ~.::E;,:II'~:·~~-~.L~.:::. .. · ·' ·. · :- · ·. · · .. ·· .-·~. · · · ~· · . ·. J ~ • CONCORDIENSIS • JANUARY 30, 1 992 • PAGE 8 by Ken Perel Contributing Writer It was late May, the weather was unusually warm, and there were only three weeks left until graduation. These students had spent their entire lives together, sharing kindergarten, puberty, experimentation, and ultimately graduate, building the bonds of friendship and family. In honor of their near futUFe success, a typi.cal beach party, thrown for themselves by themselves was in progress. The party was a typical high school gathering. There were the couples and the single people; there were the lower class friends, and some already graduated friends. There was plenty of music, fun, and alcohol. There was also driving. It was fairly routine for these students to drive each other to the parties, then drive each other home. As they drank all year, it was considered acceptable to drive after a few beers. The town was small, the police were all related, and the judge was a local boy. God forbidding, if the police did pull them over for driving under the influence, they were usually just escorted home with a wruning. Unfonunately for Diana (name change-d) this night changed her life. She was not even given the opportunity to drive drunk; some one stole it from her. At around 12:30, as the beach party was packing up, and the students staggered to their cars, a pickup truck, traveling about forty miles an hour, struck Diana in the parking lot. The crash's impact sent her over one hundred feet, where she laid motionless, taken for dead. Who \I'm serious, rm okay. l only had afew beers .. Really.! know my limit, and I am not at it. l always drink, .-so I have a higher tolerance then most people. Will you give me a break. Would you rather walk then trust your best friend?\ S11mmer always marks a time of depression .and end. Friends aU go off to their respective colleges, and everyone is left with just themselves and their memories. The party was a typical high school gathering ..• there was plenty of music, fun and alcohol. Tber,e was also driving. As the summer progresses, the fr~quency and caliber of the patty scene always increases. Parties are intended to last for ever in an attempt to make summer last. Summer loves will be gone, replaced by letters that are two weeks old, and expensive phone calls that cease by October. Fred knew this scenario well. He attended college in Boston while his summer love was in New York. Due to the demands of his and his girlfriend's summer job, he was only able to spend nights with his lover. These nights typically consisted of going out with the boys, while she went out with the girls. At some designated place and time, both the girls and the boys would get together, and claim their parli!ers. All the summer ritual always wellt, the group would then consume more alcohol, and probably make a contest out of Shall it. The one person, male or fernale who could bout and ralily the most times was c~msidered the nightly God or Goddess. Ah, but due the laws of physiology and biology, the merriment must end. Fred lived only three miles from his girlfriend. The location of that night's fesfi.vals was an intermediate poiat between them. At around tw~ a.m. they left the party in Fred's mother's new Mercedes · :-. rj headed for the bedroom. Tiley arrived safely, although due to the vigorous pursuits of the early evening, Fred was rendered impotent, and forced to return home. Fred's girlfriend was very wetried about Fred. She noticed an inclination for Fred to doze off, and was afraid for his jou.mey. He shrugged, and ag~nst her better judgements, dro\Ve away. Within five minutes, Fred was beating on the window of his girlfriend's house. As he remembers, all of a sudden he was upside down, then right side up on the opposite of the street, pointing in the opposite direction from which. he started. He could offer no other exJ>lanation, except that he was bt:i11ded by oncoming headlights. T'b.ere were no other cars on the road at that time. The official police investigation claimed Fred nodded off at the wheel for a brief moment, and upall sliding off the road into the sand was jolted awake. Due to alcohol induced reactions, he over jerked the wheel, causing the car to over steer at about fifty-five miles an hour, seneing the car into a roll. As the insurance company claimed, they had never before enc<>11ntered a Mercedes that und~r went a barrel roll, and an What: Exact:ly I& Weird? by Betsy Rothstein Staff Writer A dictionary definition of weird is that which is \unearthly uncanny, strange or bizarre.\ Various synonyms for the word weird are \eerie freakish, ghostly, grotesque, mysterious, odd, queer and unnatural.\ Many people talk about people being \weird\ and how many \weird\ people there are on this campus as well as in and around Schenectady. Supposedly there are the most insane people per capita in Schenectady, New York, but do not quote me on this. It may just be one of those vicious rumors floating around campus. Although \weird\ does have a concise dictionary definition, \weird\ is a concept that is extremely ambiguous and subjective to each individual. The truth is that everyone in their own way is weird. There really is no such thing as normal since everyone views himself/herself as essentially normal. Is this making any sense? What one person thinks is \weird\ is by no means what another individual may think is \weird\. Everyone perceives things differently. Eut, what exactly makes someolle \weird\ as opposed to \normal\? Is \weird\ the helpful man that stabs the garbage around campus? Is \weird\ a native resident of Schenectady who walks around A-Plus quacking like a duck? Can \weird\ be defined as the lady wllo works at Kern Laundry sporting a black sweatsuit ensemble, accompanied by a pink beret, white tube socks and black networking pumps? Or is someone \weird\ if they have a large. unexplainable j((\OWth on their face? A person with such a bizarre, unearthly, eerie physical deformity may actually be completely \normal\. We could all be missing out on a great life- long lasting friendship with an unkempt \undesirable\ limping acmss campus but because we are too close-minded we avoid this. \Wekd\ to many people revolves around a deformed physical appearance which is different from the \n~>rm\. Over an intellectual game of beer pong one night, a friend and I tried to figure out what makes someone \weird\. We concluded that \weird\ is not necessarily a negative charac- teri~tic since it most likely enc<Jmpasses a large number of people on this campus. We decided that \weird\ can actually be a positive trait depending on one's individual thoughts and perceptions. We all have our own preconceived notions of what we view to be \normal\. Anything that strays from our own personal sense of normality we will perceive to be \weird\, freakish or grotesque. When I think of \weird\, I immediately think of walking into my room and finding a suitemate of mine talking to the television. I gave her the benefit of the doubt and thotrght she was speaking to me. However, when I questioned her, she admitted that she was in fact talking to the television. I quickly packed up all my things, told her to have a nice life and ran out of the room. However, maybe talki11g to the television is not \wdrd\. Obviously my suitemate finds nothing wrong with it. This was only my pers()nal opinion- that her behuior was slightly unearth- like CJr eerie. Wilen I questioned students Drive? end over end mll simul- taneously without the driver dying. The car was totalled, b-ut Fred survived injury free. \It's really cold tonight. Maybe we should drive up campus.\ \Campus is really boring tonight. Let's go out in Albany. They have some great bars.\ Jessica was a parent's drearn. She was an honor role student, played three varsity sports fQr the locale high school, and was elected Prom Queen. She had her college acceptance, and a boyfriend who they liked and accepted. She had talked about her ambitions, about education and marriage numerous times with her parents, and was not known to be disliked by anyone. She also hardly ever drank. In 1991 ... there were 26,900 drunk driving arrests for the 18 through 24 year old age group. In the same age group there were 5,777 drunk driving fatalities. She was a finn believer that one did not have to get intoxicated to have a good time. She valued people for being people, and not for their drunken escapades. She was the perennial designated driver, and she enjoyed it immensely. She was also the unofficial historian for her friends. each Saturday and Sunday morning she infonned them about their previous night's activities. On this Saturday night, she lived up to her own expectations. She went to a about what they believe makes an individual \weird\ I received a wide variety ofresponses: \Weird is an outlook on life that differs from the nonn.\ \Weird does not have to be bad. It can just be a different way of approaching things.\ ,;Weird may be th-e grandmother on the Beverly Hillbillies who carries a shotgun and smokes a pipe.\ \Weird is the pervert on the street who tells you the size of his genitalia.\ \Weird is the man I saw in the library dressed in a white oxford, khaki shorts, black knee socks and high-heeled shoes.\ \Weird is the day I was sitting at a two person table in the College Center when a virtual stranger with one glass eye with his seeing eye dog appeared and asked if the empty seat at my table was taken. 1 was slightly shocked but replied that no, the seat was not taken. The man sat down, and proceeded to pop out his glass eye, clean it, and pop it back in. He did this a few more times and then left.\ \W cird is the transvestite I was sitting next to in the library. The scary thing is I did not f>:Ven notice him until someone told me that the man party at their friends house in the woods. but did not have a . single drink. Her boyfriend, on the other hand, did. Even today, it is h.ard to tell exactly how much he drank, but it is generally acceJ)ted that he was not into~icated, but rather happily buzzed. He was also riding the llatural high of receiving a new Jeep from his parents as an early graduation present. He and Jessica were truly the perfect high school couple. As it has a t-endency to do in the Spring, the weather changed quickly that night. What started ()ff dear and cool tw:ned into rnt1ggy and foggy. Although cleat' on the hills, the small valleys were settled with fog. Due to a mix of alcohol, loss of contro-1, and excessive speed, the Jeep, driven by Jessica's boyfriend, swerved around a corner, skidded, flipped sidew11y-s, and struck a concrete telep!J~ne wire marker on the side oftlle road. Jessica's hoiJes and dreams ended with her decapitation. Her boyfriend was crushed to 'tleath. \/ am rea/Jy hungry, let's drive to Brandywine for some food. It's the o11ly place open at 4:00 a.m. We 'li probably see other Union students there. It's a great place to go after a party.\ According to The Statistical Abstract of the United States, 1991., there we;re 26,900 drunk driving arrests for the 18 thru 24 year-old age group. In the same age gro:up, there were 5,777 drunk driving fatalities; 30% of the Nati()n 's total drUnk driving fatalitie:~. Driving under the influence of alcohol increased the 2:0 thru 24 year- old vehicular death rate from 9.5% of the l~tal vehicular deaths to 13.3o/\'. sitting at the de:sk next to mine was wearing a <lress.\ \Weird is wilien people are dirty and greasy.\ \Weird is pe:ople who wear high water pants or blue chiffon dresses with pillk: lace collars.\ The responses I received as to what exactly makes a person \weird\ have lead me to conclude that while some people base their opinions of others on ph~sical charac- teristics, othel's: make their opinions base<L on something intangible that they perceive only after speaking to another individual. Granted that some people may be dangerous-weird or psychotic-weird (definitely people you ma-y want to stay away from), t!Je-re are others who unfairly !et labeled as \weird\ due t() a physical characteristic of which they cannot help. s,o, maybe this means we are all dose-minded. Are the people we label \weird\ not really \weirct'• after all? Not necessarily. \Weird\ is unique to each individual. People's opinions vary from person to person and this is the way it should be. If everyone thought that everyone was \nonnal\, or if everyone thcmght that the same people were \weird\ life would be mo11otonous and boring. 1 I 'I l

Scream Of Consciousness by Paul Garnett Contributing Writer It is said that hard times magnify the differences between classes. According to the experts, this latest recession is causing irreparable damage to the purses and psyches of a large portion of America's population. But, as I sit on Union College's finely kept campus, I see very little of the supposed ill effects of our nation's recession. And, as banking houses, pharmaceutical firms, and insurance companies come up the Hudson to recruit Union's finest seniors, I further question whether our economy really has become stagnated. However, recently I have heen fortunate enough to become acquainted with a woman named Pauline, who works as an Account Executive at a reputable Savings and Loan. This firm has reported many years of profit and continues to be a successful financial institution. Yet, Pauline, who has been with the bank for eight years, has not reaped the benefits of her company's success. On the other hand, she can remember some of her (usually white male) co-workers moving on to upper management positions -- to receive generous pay raises and bonuses. In addition, the CEO of this Bank has recently given himself another raise for his fine work -- raising his annual salary to $2,000,000. Pauline is an African- American woman with an MBA. The .success that a few of her co-workers have Executives argue that since they make multi-million dollar decisions, they should be paid accordingly . • . sometimes paying themselves 100 times as much as the average employee. experienced is not reserved for Black Women (except of course for the token success story that is published in the bank's annual report each year). But it would be unfair to say that this is completely a racial issue. Ultimately, this issue comes down to economics. You see, even though Pauline is considered a white collar worker (and the statistics consider her a success story for her race), she makes barely enough to support her two children. Yet this is typical of our nation's dwindling middle class. Pauline is paid well below her company's standard pay scale. Yet she does net complain, as it has beet: ~ ebl\u.a.R.; ? and ~ 1'\emo~:,aL Cha.reL 'J:30p'\ 1ieKets: 4t3.00 Fo~ s~iaL 3~our, Ra.tes J Corda. c: 1: Sand~ - 3 81. -lf.Jtlflf A1'1 3 ie- 3ll.-41f5 MARiti A- .3U-lfolf-S'7 explained to her that this year,. as in years past, the Bank cannot afford to give her a significant raise. Meanwhile, the upper management of this Bank has given itself healthy pay raises for many years in a row. . Even though this story might be alarming, it is symptomatic of a damaging trend which is generally occurring in our society. These executives argue that since they make multi-million dollar decisions, they should be !'>aid accordingly. These individuals put a large price tag on their decision-making -- sometimes paying themselves 100 times as much as the average employee. For example, Lee Iaccoca is paid $4.5 million annually no matter how badly GM does. These individuals feel that they should be paid for utilizing talents that they already possess. But is it not only natural for someone with talent to utilize that talent? Are talented people so special that they should be revered for not being lazy? Why are they so special for utilizing talents that they already possess? Are we to believe that a person is worth so much simply because he/she tries? Do we not have a duty to utilize out talents for the freedoms that we supposedly hold so dear? But alas the reality of this arrangement is simply a reflection of an elitist attitude Dear Alice, I am having a major dilemma in one of my classes and the problem is my professor. It is obvious that this professor likes certain students better than others and since he or she makes this a well known fact and because I am not one of these \lucky\ people, I cannot get along with this professor. This professor does not care what the students have to say but rather would prefer to hear her own ideas regurgitated back to her. I feel as though I am wasting my time as well as my $20,000/year education money. Every time the professor calls on me he or she makes me feel like a complete and total m<;>ron. It is not a~. if I am unprepared for class. This Do You Want VISA & MasterCard Credit Cards? - ~ ' ' - Now )IOU can have two of the most rec:ognlzed and accepted credit cards In the world ... VIsa® and MasterCard® credit tards .. :'ln your name.\ EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN CREDIT or HAVE BEEN 1t.JRNED DOWN BEFORE! VISA® and MasterCard® the credit tards you deserve and need fol\- lD-BOOK&-DEPARTMENT STORES-TUITJON-ENTERTAJNMENT- EMERGENCY CASH-TICKETS-RESTAURANTS- HOTELS-MOTELS-GAS-CAR RENTALS- REPAIRS-AND TO BUILJ) YOUR CREDlT RATING! GUARANTEEDt VISA/MASTERCARD CUARANTUD ISIUI OR MONEY lACK ApprovaJ absoluiely guaranteed so that we have come to accept in our daily lives. The upper class in our society is paid so much for doing so little (and doing things that they should be doing anyway). On the other hand, the poor in America are expected to do their part and not be justly rewarded for it. (We wonder why American productivity is waning and apathy is flourishing.) Ultimately this structure puts a price tag on human lives. Union College students Union College students who are graduating expect to receive generous starting salaries ... we feel that we are worth som much, but are we? who are graduating expect to receive generous starting salaries. (It should not surprise us t:hat Pauline's current salary is what you and I expect to start at.) We feel that we are worth so much, but are we? The working class creates the infrastructure upon which our very existence relies. Is that not worth something? If not for the hard work and toil of masons, painters, landscape artists, plumbers, and electricians, Union College would not exist. We would be left to ponder life sitting out in lhe snow freezing our butts off. How could we go on to make such great decisions under such ••• professor makes the class unbearable for me, and since he or sbe is the head of his or her department I feel as though there is nothing I can do. Stuck in a class from Hell Dear Stuck in a class from Hell, You should in no way feel as though you are \stuck\ in this situation. You do have options. You could go to your advisor and see if he could speak with this unbearable professor. Or, if you are not comfortable with your advisor, you could approach the Dean of Students or perhaps another professor in the department with whom you get along wen. Another idea, if you have eno11gh nerve, may be to confront the professor and tell physically constraining conditions? 111 essence, this system is working to polariz:e the classes. Why are white collar executives paid so much? This arrangement is a reflection of selfishness and a feeling of self-importance in American business. These people feel they are better than other people because their monetary val uc is greater. But, after all, where does all this money come from? It comes from people like Pauline, wh are exploited so that you and I can graduate from Union and get paid $30,000 a year selling pharmaceutical products, insurance, stocks, etc., and move on to begin our pri\ileged lives. In turn, the prices for these products are over-inflated so that your surplus values can pay the CEO of Bank X and Pharmaceutical Company Y $2,000,000 a y~JJ for doing what - making decisions that they should naturally make. So, think twice my fellow graduates before you become pan of the problem and of the injustices of the economic and social hierarchy. You are all talented people. I am not proJlosing that you rid yourself of all your worldly possessions to follow the path of God, but at least utilize your talents for some other end than the further increased wealth of some Jazy fat cat executive. him or her how they make you feel in class and see if you and the pmfessor can come to a muttJal understanding. It may be a problem of miscommunication or it could just be a clash of personalities. 1 Either way you have a right to your opinions and you should not feel as though you are backed in a comer. Remember that at the end of the term there will be teacher evaluations and you will have a chance to formally speak your mind. Also, when and if this professor ever comes up for tenure you will have the opportunity to confidentially voice your opinions of this professor's capabilities. Alice lj you have any questions or problems that you would like tc be answered in a serious manTier ... send them to Concordiensis, Box 2577. ------------------------~ 1 STUIJEIT SERVICES.PO BOX Z596.,HOllYWOOD.Fl 33022 ~ I , • : YES! lwantVJSA®/MASfERCARD~Credtt ~ I Cards. Enclosed find $15 which Is 100% refundable If not I I approved Immediately. I I I I NAME I I I 1 ADDRESS I CIIY STATE-ZIP __ _ : PHONE ----- S.S.# ------- 1 SIGNAWRE ----------- 1 N<lTE: MasterCani Is a ~stem! trademaril d MastetC:ard Jnlemallonal. Inc. I VIsa Is a rcglstemJ lnlidemaril of VISA lL SA. Inc and VISA In lema tlonal I Servtces Association. 100GJct GUARANTEED! 1~01.i:ltJ:t•l;lt.j:l3•lii:J-·l:li•l•l·l1 1 1 L_ __ l_ ________ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--J----------- ~- ----------- ~

Term 1992 inter Final Exam Schedule This exam schedule is primarily for regular, \day\ undergraduate courses. A separate schedule for Graduate and Continuing Studies courses will be announced, and students in \Section 51 or 52\ courses should be alert for the announcement of the exam time for those courses. Conflicts in examinations should be reported to Mrs. Peck in the Office of the Registrar not later than Friday, February 28. Examinations will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code of the buildings to be used. ARTS- Arts Building HUMN- Humanities Building SSCI- Social Science Building BAll.. - Bailey Hall NWSE - North Wing, S/E Center S'IZH - Steinmetz Hall BUTR • Butterfield Hall PYCH - P:>ychology Building ALUM - Alumni Gym MONDAY, MARCH 16 • 9:00-11:00 AM BI0-011-01- Topics in Contemporary Biology- R. Willing d BAIL 207 BI0-154-01- Developmental Biology- B. Boyer- BAll.. 201 CER-129-01 - Comp Aided Struct Dsgn & Analys- M. Mafi- BUTR 109 CHM.:.134-01- Organic Chemistry- K. DeJesus -BAIL 203 CLS-021-01- History of Greece- J. Marincola- HUMN 019 CSC-012-01- Programming for Natrl Sciences- N. Mazur- S1ZH 106 EC0·044·01 - East Asian Development Model - B. Reynolds NWSE 112 EC0-140-01- Labor Economics- P. Prosper- SSCI 010 EER-048-01- Semiconductor Devices & Circuits- E. Hassib- NWSE 201 ESC-030-01 - Mechanics of Deformable Solids - R. Eggert- NWSE 210 FRN-132-01- Survey of French Literature II- E. Kirk- HUMN 116 FRN-147-01- Twentieth Century French Novel-L. Day- HUMN 014 HST-013-01 • History of U.S. to Civil Wa:t- T. Meade- SSCI 104 HST-014-01- History of U.S. Since Civil War- A. Feffer- SSCI 103 HST-022-01- Civil War and Reconstruction- F. Dudden- SCI 014 HST-035-01- History of Europe I- E. Hansen- HUl\1N 117 HST -035-02 - History of Europe I - S. Sargent - HUMN 114 HST-036-01- History of Europe II- S. Berk- HUMN 115 HST-046-01- History of Europe II- J. Finkelstein- SSCI 112 MTH-101-01- Advanced Calculus for Engrs.- J. Barbanel- BAIL 100 MTH-136-01- Real Variable Theory I- K. Rosenthal- BAIL 102 MTH-140-01- Linear Algebra- A. Taylor- BAIL 104 PHY-134-01- Physical Optics- S. Maleki- NWSE 303 PSC-047-01- Law & Public Policy- J. Board- HUMN 112 PSY-020-02- Statistical Methods in Psych- K. DeBono- PYCH 204 PSY-034-01 - The Pgychology of Language- T. D'Andrea- PVCH 102 PSY-046-01- Introduction to Psychobiology- C. Weisse- PYCH 113 SOC-051-01- Race, Class & Gender in Society- R. Quaye- NWSE 114 SPN-149b01 -Special Topic: Latin Amer Lit- V. Martinez- NWSE 116 MONDAY, MARCH 16 - 1:00-3:00 PM AAH-043-01 - American Art- D. Robbing- ARTS 215 AMV~036~0t ~Music of AfriGa- T. Ross .. ARTS 313 ANT-104-01- Contemporary Japanese Society- S. Gmelch- HUMN 116 CSC-040-Ql- Machine & Assembly Language- F. Federighi- STZH 106 EC0-129-01- Modeling & Sim ofEco Policies- E. Motahar- SSCI 103 EGL-075-01 - The Early American Novel- F. Gado - HUMN 112 ESC-013-01 -High Level Lang Programming - N. Mazur- NWSE 112 HST-084-01- Scientific Revolution to 1700- S. Sargent- HUMN 110 PHL-019-01- Freshman Seminar in Philosophy- B. Petrie- HUMN 213 PHL-132-01- Modem Phil: Descartes-Leibniz- J. Ludwig- HUMN 117 PSC-011-01 - Intro to American Politics- G. Reeher- HUMN 114 PSC-013-01 - Irttto to Political Thought- P. Meyers - SSCI 104 SOC-163-01 - Hist. of Sociological Thought- M. Huggins- SSCI 104 STA-110-01 - Intro to Statistical Methods I- J. Lambrinos- BAll.. 312 WST-130-01- Contemporary Japanese Society- S. Gmelch- HUMN 116 MTH-040-01 -Applied Linear Algebra- K. Rosenthal- BAIL 205 MTH-040-02 - Applied Linear Algebra- S. Niefield- BAIL 201 PSY-024-01- Social Psychology- K. DeBono- PYCH 113 PSY-024-02- Social Psychology- V. Dawson- PYCH 102 SOC-024-01- Social Psychology- K. DeBono- PYCH 113 SOC-024-02- Social Psychology- V. Dawson- PYCH 102 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18 • 1:00-3:00 PM AAH-03-01 -European Art: 1600 to 1850- L. Matthew- ARTS 215 BI0-062-01- World Agriculture- C. George- BAIL 104 BI0-075-01- The Biology ofHomosapiens- J. Boyer- BAIL 104 BI0-165-01- Neural Circuits & Behavior - R. Olberg .. BAIL 106 CHM-020-01 - Models and Molecules - L. Hull/f. Werner- NWSE 112 CHM-150-01- Physical Chemistry I- D. Hayes- BAIL 102 CLS-030-01- Greek & Roman Drama in Translatn- C. Sorum- HUMN 116 EC0-012-01 - Introduction to Economics- H. Fried- SSCI 112 · EC0-052-01 - Gender Issues in Economics - L. Cavalluzzo - SSCI 110 EGL-022-01 -Major American Authors- F. Gado- HUMN 112 EGL-034d01 - Studies in American Literature- L. Slade- IIDMN 110 ESC-015-01 - Numerical Methods and Fortran - L. Almstead - S1ZH 106 GEO-Q31-01- Mineralogy- K. Hollocher- BUTR 201 LAT-143-01-RomanDrama-M. Toher-HUMN213 MER-011-01- Engineering Graphics- H. Lyo;ns- NWSE 222 PSC-088-01 -Politics of the Middle East- S. Nairn- SSCI 103 PSY -010-02 - A First Course in Psychology - S. Greenberg - PYCH 102 PSY -175-01 - Neural Circuits &Behavior - R. Olberg - BAIL 106 WST-060-01- Gender Igsues in Bconomicg- SSCI 110 THURSDAY, MARCH 19 - 9:00-11:00 AM BI0-016-01- Introduction to Biology I- P. Tobiessen/W. Roth- SSCI 016 BI0-147-01- Immunology- T. Styles- NWSE 222 CER-128-01- Structural Analysis- M. Mafi- BUTR 109 CHM-010-01 • Fundamental Chemmtry I- RAIL 207 C:a:M~Oto~oz .. Fundamemat Chemistry I - BAIL Z07 CHM-040-01 - Quantitative Chemistry - R. Schaefer - BAIL 203 CHN-122-0 1 - Intermediate Chinese III - M. Chen - HUMN 113 CSC-014-01- Information Processing- L. Almstead- BAll.. 104 EC0-012-01 -Introduction to Economics- H. Fried- SSCI 103 EC0-036-01- Financial Markets- B. Lewis- SSCI 014 EER-144-01- Communication Systems i- E. Hassib- S1ZH 106 EGL-019-01 - Major English Authors I - R. Stevenson - ffiTh.1N 112 EGL-022-02 - Major American Authors - B. MacDonald- HUMN 110 FRN-010-01 -Basic French I_ C. Laparra- HUMN 014 FRN-011-01 -Basic French II- E. Kirk- HUMN 114 GE0-042-01 -Tectonics. J. Garver- BUTR 201 GER-010-01 -Basic Getman- A. Warde- HUMN 115 GER-011-01 -Basic German II- D. Lund- SSCI 110 GRK-011-01 - Prinr.in1E~r.1 nftirp_p,Jr TT. T M<>rinf'nl<>- l-iTThlfloJ11.:::

- ------ - -- ~- - ------------ _..,...,.,. .. _.,_ ,. •• .lilo •a\'&'-'Ll'V.t'&&J - .&.le ..1.. VU.I.\' - .I..I.V.lYAJ.., ~.I..J PHL-132-01- Modem Phil: Descartes-Leibniz- J. Ludwig- HUMN 117 PSC-011-01- Intro to American Politics- G. Reeher- HUMN 114 PSC-013-01 - Irttto to Political Thought- P. Meyers - SSCI 104 SOC-163-01 - Hist. of Sociological Thought - M. Huggins - SSCI 104 STA-110-01 - Intro to Statistical Methods I- J. Lambrinos- BAIL 312 WST-130-01- Contemporary Japanese Society- S. Gmelch- HUMN 116 TUESDAY, MARCH 17 • 9:00-11:00 AM AAH-011-01- Intra to Art History- Part I- L. Matthew- ARTS 215 BI0-018-01 - Intro to Biology II - K. Williams • SCI 016 BI0-023-01 - Cell Biology - G. Smith/J. Salvo - BAIL 201 BI0-170-0 1 - General Endrocrinology - G. Butterstein - BAIL 207 CHM-010b01- Fundamental Chemistry B- C. Guare- BAIL 203 CHM-012-01- Fundamental Chemistry II- J. Anderson- BUTR 204 CHM-012-02- Fundamental Chemistry II- D. Hayes- BUTR 204 CHM-Ql2-03 - Fundrunvntal Chemistry ll - R. Silversmith • BUTR 204 CHN-011-01 - Basic Chinese II - M. Chen - HUMN 213 CSC-011-01- Programming for Soc Sciences- J. Castleberry- STZH 106 EC0-012-03 - Introduction to Economics - S. Schmidt- SSCI 014 EC0-025-01- EfficientMgmtofTechnology- S. Yaisawarng- SSCI 112 EER-143-01- Electromagnetic Engineering- Y. Chang- NWSE 222 EGL-020-01-Major English Authors II- A. Frazier- HUMN 112 EGL-055-01- Shakespeare to 1600- R. Stevenson- HUMN 117 EGL-072-01 -Literature of the New Nation - N. Shour- HUMN 114 GE0-011-01 -The Earth & Life Through Time- J. Garver- BUIR 201 HST-054-01- Russia in the Imperial Age-S. Berk- SSCI 104 LAT-010-01- Principles of Latin I- J. Marincola- HUMN 116 LAT-011-01 -Principles of Latin II- I. Scullion- SSCI 213 MER-022-01- Materials Science & Engineering- R. Milillo- TBA MER-041-01- Engineering Design II- M. Rivera -NWSE 210 MTH-018-01 - Intra to Logic and Set Theory- V. Fedini - NWSE 201 MTH-030-01- Ordin Differential Equations- J. Muckenfuss- SSCI 103 MTH-057-01- The Nature of Mathematics.- A. Taylor- HUMN 019 MTH-130-01 - Complex Analysis - M. Frame - S1ZH 108 PHL-012-01 -History of Western Philosophy- R. Baker- HUMN 110 Plll..-134-01- Nineteenth Century Philosophy- P. Genest- HUMN 113 PHY-011-02- Introduction to Physics I- J. McWhirter- NWSE 112 PHY-013-02- Introduction to Physics II- D .. McKenna- NWSE 114 PHY-040-01- Order and Chaos: Art and Magic- D. Peak/R. Khosropour- NWSE 116 PSC-044-01- Japanese Political Behavior- D. Thurston- PYCH 102 PSY-020-01- Statistical Methods in Psych-S. Greenberg- PYCH 204 PSY -038-01 - Developmental Psychology - L. Stanhope - PYCH 213 RUS-121-01- Intennediate Russian II- N. Jemakoff- HUMN 119 SPN-120-01 ·Intermediate Spanish I· L. Martinez- SSCI 010 SPN-132b01 -Survey of Peninsular Lit II- P. Moyano- HUMN 014 TUESDAY, MARCH 17 - 1:00-3:00 PM AAH-023-01- Medieval Art & Architecture- L. Matthew- ARTS 215 CLS-033-01- Greek & Roman Comedy in Transla- J. Scullion- HUMN 116 EC0-031-01- Microeconomic Analysis- S. Yaisawarng- SSCI 104 EGL-073-01 - Realism & Naturalism in Am Lit- S. Duer- HUMN 112 HEB-011-01- Basic Hebrew II- D. Heckelman- HUMN 119 Plll..-144-01- Political Philosophy- R. Baker- HUMN 117 PSC-065-01 -Urban Politics- C. Tidmarch- SSCI 103 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18 • 9:00-11:00 AM EC0-042-01 -Macroeconomic Theory & Policy - D. Levy - SSCI 112 EC0-042-02 -Macroeconomic Theory & Policy - D. Levy - SSCI 112 MTH-012-01- Calculus II- J. Muckenfuss- BAIL 102 MTH-012-02- Calculus II- A. Prindle- BAIL 100 MTH-012-03 -Calculus II -E. Gillette- BAIL 207 MTH-012-04 -Calculus II -E. Gillette- BAIL 207 MTH-014-01- Calculus III- T. Bick- BAIL 106 MTH-014-02- Calculus III - S. Niefield- BAIL 201 MTH-014-03- Calculus III- W. Zwicker- BAIL 203 EGL-022-02 - Major American Authors - B. MacDonald - HUMN 110 FRN-010-01 - Basic French I_ C. Laparra- HUMN 014 FRN-011-01- Basic French II- E. Kirk- HUMN 114 GE0-042-01 -Tectonics, J. Garver- BUTR 201 GER-010-01 -Basic Getman- A. Warde- HUMN 115 GER-011-01- Basic German II- D. Lund- SSCI 110 GRK -011-01 - Principles of Greek II - J. Marincola - HUMN 116 HST-049-01- Europe Between Two Wars- E. Hansen- SSCI 112 JPN-011-01- Basic Japanese II- Y. Nakagawa- HUMN 213 :MER-033-01- Fluid Mechanics- J. Shanebtook- NWSE 210 MTH-010-01- Calculus I-V. Ferlilni- BAit 201 PHL-017-01- Sex & Society- P. Genest- HUMN 117 PHY -011-01 - Introductiont to Physics I - K. Schick- NWSE 112 PHY -013-01 - Introduction to Physics II,. C. Jones- NWSE 114 PHY -052-01 - Classical Mechanics - G. Reich - NWSE 116 PHY-132-01- Electromagnetism II~ D. Peak- NWSE 303, PSC-012-01 - Intro to International Pol.- S. Nairn- SSCI 104 PSY-010-01- A First Course in Psychology- V. Dawson- PYCH 113 PSY-031-01- Abnormal Psychology- K. Olsen- PYCH 102 PSY-033-01- Psych of Memory and Thinking- S. Greenberg- PYCH 213 RUS-011-01- Basic Russian II- M. Rudko- HUMN 119 SPN-011-01- Basic Spanish II- L. Martinez- HUMN 019 WST-015-01- Sex & Society- P. Genest- HUMN 117 THURSDAY, MARCH 19 - ~:00-3:00 PM AMU-020-01- Music History I- H. Wilson- ARTS 215 BI0-066-01- Sex & Sexuality- F. Lambert- BAIL 207 EGL-021-01- Major English Authors III- N. Shour- HUMN 112 EGL-023-01 - The American Short Story- S. Dyer- HUMN 110 FRN-120-01 - Intermedite French I - L. Day - HUMN 114 FRN-121-01- Intermediate French IT- C. Laparra- HUMN 014 GER-120-01 -Intermediate German I- D. Lund- SSCI 110 GER-121-01- Intermediate German II- K. Hamm-Eshani- SSCI 010 HST-019-01- Great Depresstion & WW II- M. Jonas- SSCI 112 HST -072-01 - The Early HiStory of the Jews - S. Berk - SSCI 104 JPN-011-02- Basic Japanese II- Y. Nakagawa- SSCI 012 MER-0 11-02 - Engineering Graphics I - M. Rivera .. NWSE 222 :MER-026-01 -Thermodynamics - R. Wille- NWSE 210 MTH-028-01- Probability- K. Zimmerman- BAIL 104 MTII-058-02- The Nature of Mathematics- A. Taylor- BAIL 102 MTH-070-01 -Fractals - M. Frame- BAIL 100 PHL-020-01- Intro to Logic & Crit Thinking- B. Petrie- HUMN 117 PHY-011-03- Introduction to Physics I- R. Ponting- NWSE 112 FRIDAY, MARCH 20 - 9:00-11:00 AM ACC-010-01 - Survey of Accounting- W. Lewis/D. Arnold- BAIL 207 ACC-010-02- Survey of Accounting- W. Lewis/D. Arnold -BAIL 207 CHM-032-01- Organic Chemistry II- J. Sowa- BU1R 204 CHM:-032-02- Organic Chemistry II- L. Hull- BUTR 204 EER-041-01- Electric Circuits- M. Rudko- NWSE 201 EER-041-02- Electric Circuits- Y. Chang- BUTR 300 JPN-121-01 -Intermediate Japanese II- Y. Nakagawa- HUMN 213 THE FOLLOWING DAY COURSES WILL HAVE A COMMON EXAM WITH THE EVENING DIVISION SECTION: MONDAY, MARCH 16 • 4:30-6:30 PM CSC-135-01- Operating Systems- G. Williams- BAIL 100 CSC-135-51- Operating Systems- G. Williams- BAIL 100 TUESDAY, MARCH 17 - 4:30-6:30 PM CSC-140-01 -Theory of Computing- D. Hannay- NWSE 116 CSC-140-51 -Theory of Computing- D. Hannay- NWSE 116

CONCORDIENSIS • JANUARY 30 Time To Grow Up By the time one enters college, it is often assumed that one has learned basic values and proper decorum for daily life in American society, Unfortunately, this does not seem to be the case with many Union College students. When one dines at Dutch I-Iollow during a given meal time it is not uncommon to witness a student neglecting to pay for his food. Although most of us would agree that $16,000 per year for tuition alone is a great deal of money, it does not entitle us to free reign of the institution. No matter how one looks at it, stealing is wrong albeit a fifty- cent bagel or a three-thousand-dollar piece of jewelry. The outbreak at Saturday's hockey game is yet another example of deplorable behavior. Throw·iag oranges onto the ice is immature and dangerous. As the saying goes, it's all fun and games until someone loses an eye. These scenarios would not be tolerated outside of Union's gates. At a college where degrees are held in such high esteem, it is intolerable that immature delinquents can boast a Union degree. In short, the· aforementioned instances are a poor reflection on Union and an embarrassment to those associated in any way with the individuals in question. Citrus Your Butt Down! To the Editor: The throwing of oranges by a large number of students at Saturday night's game against R.P.I. could have resulted in serious injury to players and spectators. It diminished the momentum of the Skating Dutchmen and was an embarrassment to the College. Surely we can do better than that! As members of the crowd cheering on our athletic teams all of us have to conduct ourselves in -a manner worthy of the athletes' best efforts on the playing field. In ()rder to insure that such behavior is never repeated in Achilles Rink, all members of the Union community should be aware of the following new policy: If in the future there is a ~ i m i I a r, c lear I y identified, con4:erted effort by members of the Union crowd to throw objects onto the ice. Coach Delventhal will be authol\ized to p11ll the team from the ice and Union will immediately forfeit the game. In addition, individuals who can be identified will be subject to criminal prosecution and disciplinary action. All of us have reason to be proud of the men and women who represent Union on our athletic teams. Let's give them the chance to win or lose by their actions on the playing field or on the ice-not by ours in the stands. Sincerely, Joseph L. Mammola Dean of Students Residence Life Decision Wracked To the Editor: As most people probably know by now, Kevin Dantzler. a Resident Advisor in Fox Donnitory, was asked to resign last week, after he failed to be \on duty\ Sunday night. This decision by the Office of Residence Life was un- necessary, unreasonable, and ill-advised. The Area Co- ordinator, Ann Marie Forester, fired Kevin on the spot, and then received full support for her decision by the Office of Residence Life. Does this irresponsible, ad-hoc, person- ally-biased, type of decision making sound familiar to anyone? It should sound familiar, because it seems as if this is how our administration (in their i11finite wisdom) works. And, I might add, they have been rather successful in the last eight or nine months. Last spring, we lost a very good professor because the Dean of Faculty didn't like the way he parted his hair; or pe1'haps it was his shoe size that he was unhappy with. N()w, a Resident Advisor gets fired because he forgot to show up to baby-sit his 20-year-old toddlers that live in Fox; or was this just an opportune moment for Ann Marie to avenge a personal conflict? To err as Kevin did was simply human. To react as the Office of Residence Life did was an absolutely brilliant display of incompetence and stupidity. Incompetence is contagious. And it seems to be running rampant among administrators here. It frightens me, as it should frighten everyone of this campus ... because YOU might be next! Sarah Dudzic '92 To be considered for financial aid, you need to APPL VI Upperclass aid applications are available through the Financial Aid Office in Becker Hall. To be considered for all financial aid programs, FAFs must be forwarded to CSS by March 1, 1992. All other application materials are due to the Financial Aid OHice by April 15, 19-92. PEANUTS HEi{E 1 S JOE COOL APPLYING FOR FINANCIAL: AID ... W~AT DO I NE:D?WELL, 1• M NOT SURE .•• J.IOW MUCH IS AN ORDER OF Fi'!.ENCH FRIES? ''American Pictures'' To the Editor: Two years ago, Students for Political Awareness and Action (S.P.A.A.), sponsored the multi-media production \American Pictures.\ This presentation explored the depth of the American underclass with jarring imagery and the stark look at reality. Jacob Holdt_, the presenter and creator, travelled over a period of five years. He covered over 118,000 miles throughout 48 states. He sold his blood plasma twice a week in order to buy film and finance his wanderings. He stayed in over 400 homes, ranging from a southern sharecropper's home and the Rockefeller's mansion. Holdt infiltrated secret Ku Klux Klan meetings, worked in prison <:amps and watched muggers: at work. The majority of the show focuses on the poor of America. The slides show a shocking look at our underclass-a mother feeding her child clay because she cannot afford food, a teenage prostitute picking up a client, and a family living in a shack withont electricity or running water. · This show has travelled throughout college campuses, from state schools to the ivy leagues. The response has been excelle11t, and many schools invite the show baclc each year. Union now has the opport11nity to see this side of America again. Thanks to some faculty departments, student organizations, Wo- men's Commission, Minerva, and President Hull. S.P.A.A. has been able to bring this production to you. \American Pictures\ will be shown Monday. February 3rd, at 7:00 p.m., in the College Center Auditorium. Admission is free. S .P .A.A. encourages all of you to attend and explore the \country you never lrnew.\ Roxanne Schneider Students for Political Awareness and Action Co-chair We Want You At Kelly's Pub *Great Food *$3.00 Pitchers Location: Corner of Foster and Hattie Streets •Photo ID Required

Campus Pub Approval Has Real Potential Now that the Campus pub idea has been approved by the Administration and a proposal has been forwarded, one can only hope that the pub will reach its full potential. When finalized, the pub will be a great asset to the Union College campus. alternative. It could become an informal environment where students, professors and administrators could meet and interact. In the setting of a pub, these people would be able to have more casual, friendly discussions on areas other than academia. Or even better, a student and a professor could continue a friendly discussion of an interesting lecture in a comfortable setting. It will be an asset, not only in that it should be a gold mine for the college. At the same time it will be a shot in the aim for the relatively unknown Cabaret/Coffeehouse, It will become a genuine social alternative for the campus. In this way, it will take much of the pressure to keep the entire campus happy, off of the Greek system. In addition, it could be a neutral place where Greeks from different houses could come together and feel mutually comfortable. It could become a place where the entire campus community would visit to relax and to hang out with their peers. In short, the pub could transfonn Carnegie Hall into what it was originally intended to be-- the College's center. However, if the pub reaches its full potential it could become something much more important than a social The Flaw Lies in the System To the Editor: This letter is in response to the editorial printed in last week's issue of Concordiensis titled \Out in the cold but not left there.\ As greek women and seniors, we were appalled. The premise of the article was accurate. Yes, it is true that Union offers more to its women than sorority membership. Furthermore, everyone agrees that rush itself is superficial and exhausting for all involved. However, the editorial blasts sororities with responsibility for the women who don't receive bids. Although not getting a bid can weaken a woman's self-esteem and feel excruciating, it is not \psychologically scarring for life.\ This year, although three sororities filled quota (and one exceeded it), only fifty-six percent of the- women who . rushed were matched bids. We hope that the other forty-four percent who didn't join a sorority are still secure in their mental health. Furthermore, emotional dependence is not a prerequisite . for sorority membership. In · fact, we have spent four years at Union living with independent women and women in diff~rent sororities. As sorority ·members, we are only working within the limits of the system. The knowledge that we are hurting people makes the process painful on the other side as well. We wish we knew a way to avoid it. Ultimately, the flaw lies not within Union's sororities, but in the nationally imposed sorority rush system. The editorial's flaw was that it missed this entirely. Erica Frank '92 Karen Neddermeyer '92 7 BEDROOM HOUSE Available for 92·93 ·Large bedrooms • 2 modern bathrooms ·Large kitchen ·All appliances ·Washer & dryer ·Large deck ·Alarm system ·700 South Avenue can 370-5498 leave message Editorial Diverges From Reality To the Editor: I would like to address your second round .of Greek Slashing, appearing in last week's issue of C o n c o r d i e n s i s • I am appalled that at an institute where higher education and personal development are primary goals, the editor of our newspaper is so fondly attached to gross and impertinent exaggerations of and digression from the truth. You are, of course, free to express your thoughts and opinions. Not, however, at the expense of those you wrongly accuse. I will defend myself as an individual and a proud member of sorority. Last week I had the pleasure of meeting a great many talented, interesting and intelligent women. Some will return to my house, some will not. But, this should in no way reflect a judgment of their overall character. You are correct in suggesting that many wonderful women slip through during rush. You are furthest from the truth in suggesting that we do not know, or worse, care. I look forward to socializing with the women I've met. This includes not only our new pledges, but those who did not receive bids. I personally give the women on this campus more credit than allowing themselves to become \psychologically scarred for life.\ Apparently it is you who judge them as lacking strength. I do not mean to belittle those who are feeling down. Rather, I wish to express my faith in them as people. In response to your idea of \the largest flaw in the sorority rush system,\ that is, a lack of support, I think you owe an apology to the 20 Rho Chis wlto rescinded their right to membership selection and who also braved the cold to guide the rushees. They face perhaps the roughest task of rush. They must deliver the news, good and bad. It is their job to congratulate and console without appreciation or recognition. Lastly, I would like to stress that before I am a member of a house, I am a buman being. 1 cannot believe you found it necessary to state that there is \more to Union College than pledging a sorority.\ I, and most women on this campus, are mature enough to realize this fact. My Greek letters enhance my vision rather than leave me blind. Sincerely Marlo C. Amendola '92 ANNOUNCING THE SECOND ANNUAL STEINMETZ SYMPOSIUM APRIL 1 0, 1992 FROM 1 :00 - 5:30 Students from all classes and in all disciplines who have creative, scholarly or research projects to .)ffer are invited to be presenters at the 1992 Steinmetz Symposium. Presentations can range from art to zoology. AU interested students should find a faculty sponsor and participate in the Symposium. Deadline for submission of topics to the Associate Dean's Office Is March 2nd.

ARE YOU IN NEED OF THE SACRAMENT OF CONFIRMATION??? Bibliography o,f Faculty Publication September 1, 198!-August 3'1, 1991. FOR MORE INFO CALL: SR. MARIE #370,6087, ... JLLEGE CENTER ROOM 404 This is the last notice requesting U11ion faculty to submit copies .of their publications and their activity sheets for the period of September l, 1989 - August 3L 1991 to the Faculty Bibliography Gr(}llp at Schaffer Library~ The next edition ()f the Bibliography will be published in the spring of 1992. If you have not al:ready sent copies of your publications, please send them to Ingrida Dam bergs at SchaffEr Library. The CHUC Rooms (Hu 016 & 018) are open: Daily Mon.-Thurs. 8:30 am-10:30 pm Friday 8:30 am-8:30 pm Weekends: Sat. 12:00 pm-4:30 pm Sun. 12:30 pm-8:30 pm During these time, Macintosh & IBM computers are avaHable for students use (laser copies are 15 cents per page). FEBRUARY ,I.,TH--VALENTINE'S OA Y This year give the perfect gir:t alternative UNION COLLEGE TELEPHONE GIFT CERTIFICATES Available for purchase and Valentine's day delivery from the \TELECOMMUNICAriONS OFFICE, College Center-103. FOR lfORE JIIFORIIATJON 011 UNION COLLEGE 7ELEPHONE Glfl CERTIFIC\. TES CALL 370-6411. Foreign language news programs will be shown in t:he languase lab (HU 010). A:J:l are welcome to attend. News programs are also transmitted for many other countries ~nd will be recorded upon req11est. Faculty are welcome to borrow tapes. Ordimtrily,. they are kept in the lab for two weeks. For more informatiom, call Carol Snyder, language Lab Technician, X6212. lang\Uage lab Hours: Mon.-Fri. 8:~0 am-4:30 pm Sun.-Thurs. 7 pm-10 pm Come and wtztch the news! Schedule: MONDAYS, WEDNESDAYS & ERI'DAYS: FRENCH 1:30 Pl'vl GERMAN 3:00 PM: SP Al'IISH 4:00 PNI 'TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS: HEBREW 1:30 .PM CHINESE 2:00 PM JAPANESE 3:00 PM RUSSIAN 4:00 PM c:::JCJCJCJCJCJCJCJLJCJCJ 'jf)l!w!k~@~~ IF @!fulrm SOMETHlNG NEW AT.WEST DINING FILL IT •.... FLIP IT ..... Presents ... \Socrates: Oligarch, Democrat, TIME IT ..... TOP IT ..... HAVE A BALLH lf or Pervert\ c_ome see professors MAKE YOUR OVVN BELGIAN WAFFLES WITH Scott Scullion and Paul Genest battle it out in a •no holds barred 1 debate to the death. AN .ASSORTMENT OF TOPPINGS WEDNESDAY MORNINGS AND WEEKEND BRUNCH. ------------------------------· ~hursday, Jan. 30. 5:30 pin McKean House (Kappa Alpha) Coffee and refreshments to be available .•..• lnJI!WHIH!UH wv~w:r~miFrgs~ nnrrn&~~w'ITs WINTER SOLSTICE An Evening of New Age Piano with Scott Hirni '93 Sunday, February 2 at 7:30pm Performing Arts Studio, first noor Arts Building Admission is Free Seatine is on • ,first come first served basis A reception will rollow tbe concert I!HIUI!Uif!lml FRIENDS OF LESBIANS AND GAYS~F.L.A,G. 1. As the semester wears on you begin to suspect that roommate is gay, how do you tlandla the situation? 2. Your mom calls to have her weekly catch-up session. Duri11g the conversation she oomes out to you, buts asks not to tell your brothers or sisters because she has not yet spoken to them. Where can you get information, go to talk or listen? 3. As you and a friend of the same sex beGome closer, you discover that you are sexually attracted to him}her. What do you do1 WHAT 00 YOU 00? HOW CAN YOU APPROACH LESBIANSOReAVS WITHOUT BEII'JG INSULTING? WHAT IS THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN BEING CLOSE AND BEING SILENT'/ WHAT DOES IT MEANT() COME OUT? Twenty-five members of the Union College community are founding a chapter of F.L.A.G.--Friends of Lesbians and Gays. The group is open to anyone interested in bridging the gap between homosexuals and heterosexuals in our community. The purpose of the group is to educate the community. Do you know what its like to bE doseted? To come out? To be living with Aids? To lose friends to Aids? FLAG will focus on prejudice and awareness. FLAG will be a place wnere anyone can question debate and learn. We do not expECt everyone to agree, sltni>IY listen. Everyone has the right to be heard. FLAG can supply information to hose coming out, to those who tlav~ been come out to, to those who are still closed, and to those who wish to increase their awareness. FLAG invites people to tell their stories and to listen to those of the people around them. We will invite people from outside our commllnity to come speak, further broadening our awareness,. Community service, especially in the form of education Will also be an integral part of tile group. FLAG is neither a straight organization nor is a gay organization, rather a :Place where all VQices can be heard, so the myths and misconceptions can be lost, and an increased awareness ard respect can be gained~ Please join us! All are welcome! Please contact Alix Goldschmidt. FLAG Convenor, Box #740. SIGH UP HOW! Asian Stuclent Union and Union College Dining Service Presents- CHINESE CULINARY EXPOSE <C!BIIIN!&§!E NEW XI&A..JE Friday, February 7, 1992 5:00PM Dragon Dance - College Center Atrium 5:30PM Dinller with Floor Show- Upperclass Dining Room MENU SOI.JP Shrimp and E~ Curd SALAD Lettuce a.nd lka.n Sprouts EN1'Rii:E Steamed l.()bster Cashew Chicken 011 a Cabbage Bed Hot Spicy Scallops (Served with Subgurn Fried Rice) DESSERT AlmondCo-Qkies· Sweet Almond Pttdding 7:00PM Fashion Show (immediate!)' following dilmer) ·College Center Atrium N'o Charge to Union College Students on !he Me~l Plan $12.95to Union Collcse Community $15.95 for General Public Admissions Sign Up 48 hours in advance at Dutch Hollow Res1aurant- 2 · 4 PM and 7 - 9 PM Upperclass or West Dining Hall- Lunch or Dinn~r Times Dining Services ()ffice • 8:30 nm - 5:00 pm Telephone · 370·6050

Portraits Based On Knowledge by Julie Medow. Arts Editor Jock Sturges, photographer and active spokesperson for freedom of artistic expression, lectured and showed sfides of his work in the College Center this past Tuesday night. Having not seen Sturges' photography previously and knowing· only limited background of the controversy that would dramatically cflange the scope of Sturges' work and life, I was both surprised and angered by what I witnessed in that auditorium. It was not Jock Sturges, nor anyone else present at the lecture, that upset me. Rather, I was moved by my own naive and unfounded expectations for the content of the work and for the type of man that I thought Sturges was going to be. For those of you who did not attend the talk on Tuesday night and did not read last week's article profiling Sturges' experiences, let me clarify myself. After picking up on a lead from a photography store where Sturges had been printing some negatives in April 1990, the FBI and San Francisco police raided the photographer's home, confiscating many of his valuable prints and negatives, along with photo supplies and equipment. The FBI said they had reason to believe Sturges' work was pornographic. Although nothing materialized against Sturges and the charge were dropped, Sturges' life has not been the same since. \Is my success based on merit, or was it altered by notoriety?\ Sturges commented in response to a question from his well-received audience. For although attention from the case was negative, the publicity has plac-ed him in the forefront of contemporary artistic photography. And since the ,phQtographer was on the brink: ()f success at the same time !ls the allegations from the FBI were made, the answer to that will never really be known. However, as I listened to him talk, I began to believe that Sturges realizes the value and uniqueness of his work. And as 1 saw his work before me for the frrst time, I began to believe in him too. Jock: Sturges is a portrait photographer, and his subjects are alrnost exclusively women and girls. Yes - most of these shots are of naked women and girls - but they are so bea11tiful, and honest, and unforgettable, that people who condemn them are, in Sturges own words, \several evolutionary sleps below banama slugs.\ Are they sexual? \Everything pervades · everything else ... you can't separate sex into its own place ... \ says Sturges, who feels tllat in America, \ \we instruct people in shame - shame is a social construct.\ The people Sturges chooses as b.is subjects find nothing wro11g with nudity. For example, he goes to France and spends time living among the phot()graphing \naturists peoJlle with completely different opinions about perso11al freedoms than our own. \Naturists don't slap hands. They let their kids be who they are.\ He never forces poses, and never shows pictures publicly without permission from the individuals whom he photographs. This policy is something Sturges feels very stro11gly about, and it comes out of a genuine care for the peopk he has grown to love as their lives mingle with film. In fact, cne of the most amazing Earn $10.50 I hr. As a Part- Time Sales Representative * flEXiblE HouRS * No ExpERiENcE NEcESSARY * PARr.-TiME * All MAjons AccEpTEd POSITIONS AVAILABLE IN THE SCHENECTADY AREA Call: {20 1 ) 408-5558 elements of Sturges' W<Jlik is the fact that he naturally sequences his subjects ... there are shots of a girl at 7 or 8 years old, 10 years old, and then again at 23, for exa111ple. \She's a stunt artist n<>w for the movies ... she can't ~ait to have children so that 1 can photograph them,\ St11rges proudly commented as we passed this woman's rnost recent picture. IJ Jock Sturges' photQgr:aphs mirror the joy he obvi<>usly finds in taking pictures, and his subjects' expressions and stances reflect tllat same positive energy, for \they are portraits based on knowledge.\ There is a certain .intimacy among camera and photographer and subject that makes for an experience beyond words. \It's all about int11ition, about feeling things,\ Sturges said, and \if you want to take somebody's picture once,. you should want to take it a_gain, and again, and again,\ Although \art\ is wilat has become of these plloto£Laphs taken by Jock Sturges, his primary intention w a:s to simply capture \~orne permanence, to keep ]JeOple from disappearing from Illy life ... photography was sening a function and filling a need,\ and it still is, regardless .of the fame attached. I alluded earlier to the fact that I was Surj)rised by what I saw on 'Tuesday night. I expected someon~ who took brutal and exploitative photographs, someone searching out the liJnelight under the false preterues of creating art. What I fou11d was an inspirational and funny man, with an incredible .talent and love for what he hu; done and for his whole life, who, like most of us, w isltes to \leave behind something memorable.\ . . T.op 1 0 Movie~ 1. Hook !tanill!1Robin Williams 2. Fathet Of The .Brille Steve Martin ' 3. The Prince Of Tides Barbra Streisand 4. JFK Kevin Costner 5. Bugsy Warren Beatty 6. The Last BoySco11tBroc:e Wil- lis 7. The Hand That Rock.s The Cradle Annabella Sciorra 8. Fried Green Tomatoe!i Jessica Tandy 9. The Addams Family .htjelica Huston 10. (Tie) Beauty And 'l'he Beast and Star Trek VI Answers to King Crossword ~~~ ~~~ Forte·pianist: Melvin Tan To· Perforn1 Fortepianist Melvin Tan will present a Mozart Bicentennial Program at 3 p.m. on Sunday, Feb. 2 at Union College's Memorial Chapel for the 1991-92 Schenectady Museum-Union College Concert series. He will perform Sonata in E- flat Major, Ten Variations on \Unser dummer Pobel meint,\ Sonata in C Major, Rondo in A Minor, and Sonata in D Major. In his third appearance with the concert series, Tan will play a replica of a Walter Fmtepiano, an instrument used by Mozart, that was made by Richard Hester of Altamont. This will be the last of three special Mozart programs for this season. A native of Singapore, Tan gave his first concert at the age of 5. At 11 he was heard by Yehudi Menuhin, who invited him to England to complete his education at the Menuhin School in Surrey. His teachers included Marcel Ciompi, a pupil of the composer Debussy, Vlado Perlemuter and Nadia Boulanger. In 1974 he won a scholarship to the Royal College of Music where he studied the piano with Angus Morrison, ~ pupil of Ravel. He won several prizes and also studied the harpsichord and deepened his knowledge of performance practices in rhe 17th, 18th and 19th cent~ies. Many leading groups have welcomed Tan as a soloist, notably Christopher Hagwood and The Academy of Ancient Music and Roger Norrington and the London Classical Players, with whom he has performed concerti by Mozart. Chopin, Schumann and Beethoven. He has recorded all the Beethoven piano concertos for Angel Records with Norrington and the Classical Players. Tan has performed in sucll places as New York's Carnegie Hall, San Francisco and Minneapolis and in Canada, France, Japan, Australia and Germany. · Tickets, at $5 for students and $10 for all others,. are available from Schenectady Museum in advance or at the door an hour before the concert. For more information, call the museum days at 382-7980 or evenings and weekends at 3 72- 3651. · · Natasha' s· $tars. · . . · ARIES (March21-Aprill9)Youdo much 1hinking this week about a new beginning. Don't make this heavier than it is, dear Ram. You put on your danciQg shoes just in time for the weekend. You, your personality (and your dancing shoes) are on display all we~kend long. Don't hesitate; go fo~ it. TAURUS (April 2<l-May 20) Wtsh fulfillment becomes a reality rather than a possibility this week But, just like a little kid, you want to gloat over your most recent acquisition, success, or .. . You are not to be found this weekend because you are so happy with .•. GEl\fiNI (May 21-June20) You ac- tually put into reality what you have been dreaming of. Reactions (yours and the world's) may be rather strong to all of this. Nevertheless, you are ready. willing, and rearing to go as the weekend begins. You willlmow what it means to wish upon a star, Gemini. CANCER (June 21-July 22) Much of this week is spent looking at other points of view, assessing possibilities and then making a decision. You travel unknown realms as the week comes to · a close, and because of your willing- ness to risk and pull in dose, you may get a close glimpse of never·never land. LEO (July 23-August 22) Go for the unknown and be more into another and what could happen. You may get an unbeiievable opportunity. Don't risk and tum this one down ... or do risk and walk through a new door. Romance, mystery and a deep~r corui.ection are all part of the scenano. VIRGO (August 23-September 22) Your efficiency is tested this week, Virgo. Take another. glimp~e at . a relationship or a potential relattonshtp on the horizon. It is your choice if this is a soaring or falling star. You will be much happier this weekend if you go with the scenario of a rising star. LI.BRA (September 23-0ctober 22) Don't take a loved one for granted who was gracious enough to forg1ve an<l forget. Know which side your bread is buttered and stay aware. Recogaiz.e you cannot keep all options opell all the time. Listen t.o this person and demonstrate your caring - if )l)lJ are to be a happy camper. SCORPIO (October 23-November 21) Clear out a family problem once and for all. You know what you can and cannot take. Once freed, even 'serious you' are able to soar like a butterfly and enjoy yourself. Let those creative juices flow as the weekend begins. Do what is good for you. SAGITTARIUS (November 22- December21) Fantasize, play and talk. but really think twice before turning this idea into reality. A loved one or a child gives you important and sig · nificant feedback. Know what is; know what is real. Nevertheless, count on this weekend spent in the clouds. CAPRICORN (December 22- January 19) Sensible and careful to a fault, you proceed very much in this manner this week You may simply be unwilling right now to take any more risks, to reveal any more, or to make yourself vulnerable. You pay the con- sequences of this stance this weekend. Reconsider while you still can. AQUARIUS (January 20-February • 18) You are moving mountains right now, Aquarius, and you feel very crea- tive. Do less crowing about who you are and how great you are. Be willing to be a little humble. If patient, you get your just desserts (and treats) this weekend. You just love what goes on. PISCES (February 19-March 2()) A flagrant attitude midweek may not help you. Make up your mind for now to stay mum. Also, be aware that all your opinions. could change at any given moment in the next few.wee~. You roll into the weekend a llltle m- secure but for now, all the better. D() some soul searching, Pisces. lt>l992 by King Features Synd. ••••••••••••••••••••• • • : MOVIES : • • • Jan. 31-Feb. 2-101 Dalmations • e Fri./Sat. 7 & 9 pm; Sun. 7, 9, & 11 pm • • • • Feb. 5-Akira Kurosawa's Dreams • e Wed. 8:30 pm-CC 302 8 • • c:====~~:::::::~ •••••••••••••••••••••

PER!iOI\IAL!i Come see ••. \FIJr Colored Girls Who Have Considered Suicide When the Raiiibow is Enuf!!! Feb. 7th & 9th, 7:30 p.m. Memorial Chapel To ·the sisters of Sigma Delta Tau- Congratulations to you and your new pledge class. We wish you our best. from the sisters of Delta Gamma To the new Tri Delta pledges - Congratulations! So far,. so good ... but just wait! We'll get you back ... soon! Love, the sisters Roses ar.e Tee!i, Violets are blue; To the sisters of Delta Gamma But neither's as sweet as A chorus of booze. (couldn't resist) To the sisters of Delta Delta Delta- Congratulations on your new pleclge class. We wish them our best from the sisters of Delta Gamma To the sisters of Gamma Phi Beta- All our best to you and your new pledge class. Co11gratulations. fTom the sisters of Delta Gamma Congratulations, we made it. Great job! We have all these terrific new pi alphas now. Get to know them. To the pledges of Delta Gamma- Congratulations and welcome aboard. We're glad to have you. Get psyched for an amazing time! I.T.B., the sisters of Delta Gamma A dog and a stark Make for bad company Do you know Kimball? Oh yeah .... great guy! Miss Landers, How about a repeat of last Thursday night- you bring yourself, baby, I'll supply the bedside paraphernalia. U·N· I·O·N· 'S EEK FRIDAY, JANUARY 31 9 a.m.-6 p.m. Old Chapel. Bloodmobile. 12:15-1:30 p.m. College Center. Russian and Japanese conversation tables. 3:45p.m. HUM 213. Philosophy Collo- quium: Stephen Stich, Rutgers University, speaking on \Cognitive Science and Moral Philosophy.\ 7-9 p.m. College Center 409. Bible study. 7 & 9 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \101 Da1mations.\ 8 p.m. College Center 302. Coffeehouse . • SATUROA Y, FEBRUARY 1 WINTER FEST BEGINS I p.m. Alunmi Gym. Men's and women's swimming vs. Hamilton. 6 p.m. Memorial Field House. Jayvee men's basketball vs. Hamilton. 7 & 9 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \101 Dalmatians.\ 8 p.m. Memorial Field House. Men's basketball vs. Hamilton. 8 p.m. College Center 302. Mountebanks present \Night of Scenes.\ SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 2 3 p.m. Memorial Chapel. The Musewn/ College Concert series presents, Melvyn Tan, on fortepiano. 5 p.m. Old Chapel. Protestant worship. 7, 9 & II p.m. College Center a.ud. Film: \101 Dalmatians.\ 7:30p.m. St. Jolm the Evangelist Church. Catholic Campus Ministry. 7:30p.m. Performing Arts Studio. Winter Solstice: New Age Piano with Scott Himi '0~ ,~. MONDAY, FEBRUARY 3 9 a.m. College Center atrium. African vendors sponsored by Student Activities. 12:15-1:30 p.m. College Center. French con- versation table. 7 p.m. College Center aud. Students for Po- litical Action and Awareness :present a lecture and slide show \American Pictures\ with narrator Jacob Holdt from Africa. TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 4 9 a.m. College Center atrium. African ven- dors. 11:30 a.m.-1 p.m. Hale House. Faculty soup and beverage club. Noon-] :15 p.m. Hale House lower lounge. Wellness Program: AIDS Awareness. 12:15-1 p.m. College Center. Chinese con- versation table. 3-4 p.m. College Center 204. Big Brothers/ Big Sisters 'drop-in' meeting. 7 p.m. College Center aud. Women's Studies film: \Cissy Houston: Sweet Inspiration.\ 7:30-8:30 p.m. College Center 404. Video series: \Our Catholic Creed.\ 8 p.m. College Center 302. Crosstalk on multiculturalism. WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 5 9 a.m. College Center atrium. African vendors. 11 a.m. College Center alrium. CDC sponsors Air Force recruiun:g. 12:15-1:30 p.m. College Center. German and Spanish conversation tables. 7 p.m. Memorial Field Hous:e. Women's basketball vs. Middlebury. 8 p.m. College Center 302 .. Asian Student Union film: \Akira Kurosaw a's Dreams.\ THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 6 9 a.m. College Center atriwn. African vendors. 11:30 a.m. College Center aud. The Minerva Hour presents Frank Gentile, CytoTherapeu- tics, Inc., speaking on \New Frontiers in Transplantation: Cell Based. Bioartificial Organs.\ Noon-2 p.m. College Center. Chess table. 12:30-1:30 p.m. College Center406. Investment Club meeting. 4:45p.m.. Butterfield 202. Geology collo- quium: Art Van Tyne, an in.dependent oil and gas consultant, speaking on \Employment Prospects in Geology.\ FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7 9 a.m. College Center atrium. African vendors. 12:15-1:30 p.m. College Center. Russian and Japanese conversation tables. 3 p.m. Upper Class dining hall. Culinary Expose: Chinese New Ye:ar. 3:45p.m. HUM 213. Phil.osophy colloquiwn: Susan Wolf, Johns Hopld:ns University, speaking on \Morality and Partiality.\ 4 p.m. College Center atrium. Chinese New Year celebration. 7-9 p.m. College Center409. Bible study. 7:30p.m. Memorial Chapel. African and Latin Alliance of Students presents the play \Colored Girls.\ 7:30p.m. Performing Arts Studio. The Arts Department presents \World Music and Dance.\ 7:30p.m. Achilles Rink. Ho0ckey vs. Vermont. 8 & 10:30 p.m. College Ct'rnter aud. Film: \Jungle Fever.\ SATURDA ~ FEBRUA.FrY 8 7 p.m. Achilles Rink. Hooekey vs. Dartmouth. 8 & 10:30 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \Jungle Fever.\ SUNDA ~ FEBRUARY 9 3 p.m. Memorial Chapel. New Century Ensemble concert. 7:30p.m. Memorial Cha:g1el. African and Latin Alliance of Studentts presents the play \Colored Girls.\ 7:30p.m. St. John the Evangelist Church. Catholic Campus Ministiy. 8 & I0:30 p.m. College Center and. Film: \Jungle Fever.\ 8 p.m. College Center 302. Mmmtebanks present \Night of Scenes. •• CONCORDIENSIS • JANUARY 30, Sorry Sano, Cordy, We'll make up for it on Spring Break. The kissing bandit.. .putting it . out likC;)a chiefl Go Cordy Go. L,A Rock- Reeba, Thanks for putting up with my procrastination, I owe you. Take comfort in your pure unadulterated insanity, it gives me inspiration in our late night competitions. L A Dave Rubes® By Leigh Rubin Teeter·totter before the fulcrum. '' ... and I finally admitted to having a problem when I realized that I couldn't go more than a couple of weeks without a drink.\ ------ \Of course I don't have anything against marriage ... I'm just not ready to make a long-term commitment.\ \ ... and even though the management has refused to provide us with better safety conditions, they did agree to slaughter us more humanely.\ '

To the sisters of DG, EDT, and · Delta Delta Delta, ----------. Congratulations- Hope you Burger - . have a great year with yo LIT PER §01\JAL!i Movie anyone? I'll choose, you \new additions\. narrate. Yoa are the reason Love, the sisters of Gamma VCRs were invented. Phi Beta L,A Welcome Pledges of SDT- Put on your ·~rash helmets girls ... You are in for the time· of your lives! Love & BTG, the sisters ofSDT ! DearEM: . Happy 21st, even though you · blew Olll' radio show, off. Love., J 0rdan Happy Birthday EMILY! Love, Jen To .the Cast Of: \For Colored Girls Who Ha.ve Considered Suicide When tile Rainbow Is Enuf: Good Work! Feb. 7th & 9th are comin~ .. can't wait! ! ! This Valentine's Day Surpri~e your roommate, friends, sorority sisters and fraternity brothers with a \Union College Telephone(.lift Certificate\ available for purcha.se at Telec(;)mmunications Office., College Center- 103. For Congratulati()ns to Delta, Gamma, Delta Delta Delta, and Gamma Phi Beta Cheer up Toots! . more ·info ca11370-6411. on yollf new pledge classes. Best ofluck. Love, SDT When certain friends let yon down, You can be sure ... I'll be there for you. (Hell, I only live · 8 1/2 inches outside your door anyway. It would be impossible to avoid you if I wanted to!) CLA!i!iiFIED!i LSATS, Thesis, rejection, Scott, Law School...no question you are busier than anybody else. Love, Resume Love and friendship a1 ways, RUNI P.S. You never had to churn, bum, or bleed for me .... Help Wanted. $6.00 pan hour part-time. Prudentillli SecuriLies. Call Skip Meismer at 346-{;10 1. · To the Stage Manager- \For Colored Girls Who have Considered Suicide When the Rainbow Is Enuf!: You're the Best! -From Marina Marcy- You've done ~great job w/panhel, et.c., etc., etc.!!! ITB,DeeDee To the Sistel's. of Gamma Phi Beta, Congratulati ens on a dynamic pledge class! Get psyched for fun and lots of bonding. Love, Us DON'T WANT TO {:;'ACE THOSE SCHENECTADY WINTERS? ~ ffiiE.JkAX ~ DUTCH HOLLOW WILL NOW DJELJ[VJER HOTPIZZATOYOURDOOR!! CHECK OUT THIS PRICE 8-CUT 16\ CHEESE PIZZA ONLY $5.75 MONTHRUFRI-4PM-l AM SAT AND SUN- 5 PM- 1 AM . . -. :. · · . ·King Crossword · · · · . · ... -·._ . ' ' ACROSS 1.- S:cott 5. Mor:sel 8. Quarrel 12. Network 13. Actress Mer:kel 1 12 15 18 2 3 4 14. Nhnbus 15. Egyp1ian deit:y ~22 I :oi 16. Curved-hom antelope 17. Emerald Isle 18. Girl's name 20. Covenant 22. Coavulsive gasp 23, \- a. boy!\ 24. Wings 27. Cot1tending with 32. Rentt 33. Unrefined metal 34. Also \ . 35. \Man -, God .. 24 25 32 • 35 42 43 49 53 ·56 38. Indecent 58. Droops 39. Cut grass DOWN 26 39 40. - the line 1. Cheerless 36 42. Clerk of 2. Italian resort: 5 6 7 13 16 19 20 27 28 29 33 37 m 40 44 45 50 51 54 57 9. Hanger-on 10. Dismounted m 8 9 10 11 ~ 00014 21 23 41 17 I ! ,. 30 31 34 38 46 47 48 52 55 58 3 1. Zeus, for one 36. Mighty 3 7. Be indebted 3 8. Victims of - ' ' scribe 45. Disclose San- 11. Theater award 19. Toward 21.- Grande Hansen's diseas:e 49. Destroy 50. Pro11oun 52. Ardor 53. Smooth 54. Soo-ner than 55. Neva.da city 56. Snug retreat 57. Arn]>ersand 3. Type of jacket 4. Girl's name 5. Imaginary hobgoblins 6. Traveler's haven 7. Tight 8. Bed-linen 24. High peak 25. Gaelic sea god 26. Destroys by bombing 28. Grand-; Nova Scotia 29.Annoyed 30. Women's lib. org. 41. Anoa, for one 42. Songbird 43. Talk wildly 44. Ostrich~s cousin 46. Genus of olives 4 7. Composed poetry 48. Son of Seth 51. Sea bird THE ADVENTURES OF POPEYE . GET'Gtl.E~ CA~S R..EAJ)'/J ;\f.R. SLU~~E-· ·, wr:,~s Go\.Y't:'R 'f(LM_ A C 0 AI\M.\E~~L TC:LL{ ~ FoLKS l EATS SVlf..lA...Ct-\.? A)oT O;A.T t3~~- A~oy? FoL~5__, Tt-HS lJHt R p./2 R! , W~lf<.Rl< ~~ l RE FUCSE '10 Coo PeP-ATE.

Women's Track Continued from page 20 fourth overall. Finally, Tasha crosses the line with a time of 46.4 sec. and a first place finish. Three finishers in the top six--AWESOME! Making her debut in the 1500 AND the 3000, Diana SpaneHo, coming off an injury, buzzed around the track with a sixth place finish in the 1500. Coming back in the 3000, Diana ran an impressive time of 11:48 to finish third overall. Here they go once again, Nadine, Joy Grillion, Tasha, and D. take to the track to kick but in the 4x4 relay. These girls were so awesome as they breezed across the finistl line in first place. Congratulations go out to both the mea's and women's teams for winning the track meet. What a.n amazing group of kids! Come cheer us on Friday as area colleges from the Capital District go stride for stride with ·the Union Tracksters. If anyone is interested in running ~pring Track please contact one of these people ASAP: Dave Herrington (head coach), 'Tasha LaBare, Rika Poor, Greg Barrett. Rich Zembek. §UIIIIIIIIIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll~ . - - - - - - ~ ~ , ~ ~ \ll:llllOU ! - - - - - - = == - - - - - - i ~ports I - - - - - - - - ~llflltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll Men's Hoops Contin11ed from page 20 Dolan also led the team with 9 rebounds. Stodden finished with 3 blocks and Greg Quirolo had 6 steals on the afternoon. Brian Stackpole scmed 14 for the Mruiners. For ilie seaso11 Greg Dolan leads the team in scoring and • rebounding with an average of 13.5 points per game and 8.0 rebounds per game. Ken Evans is second in scoring with ,1 0 points a contest and Mark Stodden is second in rebounding with 6.4 per game. Stodden also has 38 blocks on the year for an average of 2.9 per game. Union plays Hamilton at home on Satwday at 8:00. The team will travel to Hobart on Tuesday. CONCORDIENSIS o JANUARY 30 Union Skiers Take To Whitefac.e by Sean Livingston Concordiensis Staff The Dutchmen kicked off their second race of the season last weekend at Whiteface Mountain. The Union team was hoping for another stellar performance, following the dual men and women's victories at the previous race. Spurned by inspirational technical advice from Paul Fehrenbach and Ramsey Baker, the Dutchmen finished second in the Giant Slalom with Jeremy \Pinky: Denise taking top honors with his fourth place finish. Closely following Pinky was senior J em Sollinger, who finished fifth. While rounding out the Union top three was Sean Livingston who finished in twelfth, The Union women also finished second in the Giant Slalom with senior Beth Foley taking third and sophomore Nicole Zamansky finishing a ,• strong eighth place. Also contributing to the excellent women's performance was Julie Jamieson, who finished twelfth, and Christian Wright who came across the line in thirteenth. Due to the shortness of time, only one run of slalom was taken. This mn. however, proved extremei~ troublesome for the Union men. Sean Livingston finished twelfth and Brooks Glahn to0k thirteenth. Senior Jem Sollinger was the only other team member to finish but due to a crash on the course he failed to make it onto the scoreboard. The women's team on the other hand co11tinued their excellent day as freshman Liz Landa finished third and Beth Foley captured seventh. Junior Betsy \mumbles\ Mitchell finished third for Union and brought home an eleventh. Coach Schaefer was extremely excited about the women's second. place finish for the weekend, as they get even clos.er to an invitation to the eastern championships .. As for the men, who slipped to a disappointing fifth, Schaefer seemed undaunted. He was quick to admit that Union really felt the loss of Tom Solleinger's transfer, but felt that the team would rebound next weekend as they travel to west Mountain for their next race. A Tour Of The Me1norial Fieldhouse by Peter Protzel Concordiensis Staff For the second week in a row the Union College Track and Field team competed at home in a day long festival of athletic courage. The meet fondly known as the Dutchman Games was held in the Union College Memorial Fieldhouse. This meet is known as an \open\ competition. because it accepts the entry of track and field athletes of all shapes, sizes, speeds and especially ages. Let me make it known to those students and faculty who did not attend, they missed a spectacular display of human spirit. If the Union Track and Field team was not a big enough draw, •this meet contained a world record holder. Now that your eyes are glued to the paper you must relax because it was not Carl Lewis or Mike P'owell. It was a very elegant and graceful woman runner in the masters division that performed to a very high standard for her age group. It is reported that she holds the World record for her age group in the :200 meters. One of the other m!lin draws was our very own professor Alan Taylor of the Matllematics Department. His performance in the 500 meters proved both his stamina and speed. As far as Union runners were concerned they used the meet as a step in the training cycle, looking towards the meet at the fine Col.gate University facility in three weeks. One must understand that the track athlete will perform well only at specific times in their training cyde. The team is working towar<ls the post season and the big meets that take place in late Fellruary and early March. This year the team has the advan~ge of three home meets and th11s less travel. This also has it~ disadvantages, in that the team must compete on the difficult :fieldhouse track. Neatly tucked away in the comer ,of the Union College carnpu;S stands the Memorial Fieldh()use. When built this structUl\e was one of the frrst of its kin<! with an indoor 'track enclosed beneath its roof. The fieldhotLse ·as it is known to students, is a dominant fixture on the campus witll its high arc ceiling. This facility is also the home of the Union Track and Field team and has been their home from day one. In it securely fastened to the wall is a plaque that dedicates the fieldhouse to the men and women who lost tbeir lives in the second world war. This structure, built after the second world war, stands a.s a tribute to individuals who served this country in honorable duty in an effort to protect onr freedom. Further inside this building is the honor role of Union Track and Field. This plaque stands above the entrance with names of individuals who now are only memories in tlie mind of distant coaches that once reigned over great teams. Each week the men and women of the 1992 Indoor track and field team attempt to better those records found on the honor roll. When one looks at the track from a close perspective you will see the difficult turns that it mercilessly imposes upon athletes. This particular track stands at 160 meters long with four turns (one in each corner of the field.house). It is WRITE FOR SPORTS Contact Schach at Box 184 7 to Apply for a Position important to jog around this track, if but once, to feel the power of the turns. As one approaches the turn begin to accelerate and run through it at full speed. These turns present problems to track athletes when applied at racing speeds because the tum angle is much greater than most other tracks. Thus this extreme angle forces the runner to over compensate in his arm motion in order to stay in his lane. Unfortunately the team must bare with this inconvenience and wait for away meets and better facilities. This track is not as bad as this writer makes it out to be, it serves its function well in trainin.g. One must remember to look at the Memorial Fieldhouse in the correct perspective: it is primarily a recreational facility built as a war memorial. It is said that a world record was set on our track. This truly amazing feat shows that perseverance and speed can tum a difficult facility into a winning one. It has served its function well and continues to house many intercollegiate and intramural teams with well deserved respect. SUPPORT UNION SPORTS GO DUTCHMEN I l

' j ,, • l! i';l ~' ~· li !,{ n ·j lj H ;~ !! ;l i !l Note to our Readers: The Athlete of the Week will not appear in this issue. We apologize md will resume our coverage next W'eek. Union Hockey Update by Dan Strum Sports Editor Tile Union Hockey team found itself fighting back the effects of a lackluster first period. this past Friday night at Ac.hilles Rink. The Skating Dute=hmen faced RPI in what turned out to be a surprisingly meaningful game in terms of pla.yoff standing. Unfortunate- ly, Union did not _put forth their best effort as they lost 5-3 to !Ill obviously fired up Engi11eer club. D()wn 4-0 .At One Point U11ion did manage to put forth a good comeback effort, but iU~ timed penalties tended to negate any of the momentum they had been building ug. Unio11 squandered a couple oY5 on 3 advantages by taking penalties in the offensive zone. After being down 4-0, Union Ca.llle back with two goals to cat tile Engineers lead in half. HCJ~ever, RPI scored a sh()rthanded goal in the next seqt.e11ce which took Union out of dle game. ()-Jd- Tradition Returns Many fans believed that they ha.d seen the end of an era the last time Union squared off ag;ainst Hamilton. However, rna11y new fans found out that the Clranges fly just as well in Division I. It took until the sec()nd _period for the drama to unft>ld, but once Union lit the lamp the first time, the oranges cal1le cascading down on an unsliSfJecting RPI goaltender. Tile RPI players became un11erved as they were visibly up set by this form of celelntion. The fans, in the . cro\ltld, however, were dancing in a wave of jubilation. (h a more serious D()te. The orange fiesta is a fun tradition for the fans as they get to voice, or in this case throw, their feelings of celebration. However, fans musl remember that once the celebration is over, it should end 1flere. Fans must not lose .sig1Jt.of the fact that any excess a.cti01ns will directly injure the very team that they are trying ,to su:p_port! Unfortunately, U11i~n was assessed a 2-minute henclt penalty Friday night for the actions of a few ()Ver.t;ealous fans. Remember, use your heads out there. As m11ch as the team loves the supp()rt it gets from its loyal fans, they do not need to be put at an unnecessary disadvantage. .. ·-·-, _-. _- -. '. ~-- ~ . : . ~- ',_· ... '· _: . . ~, . \ ·. ·. ,:·~· ... - ·. THE COLLEGE HOCKEY COMPUTER RATING compiled by Keith Instone NOTE: TCHCR is *not* used i~ conjunction with the NGAA selection process. Includes games on 1/25/9?.. l.ast week's ranking includes games on 1/19/92. Last Division r Schectule Schedule Rank Week Team Record Rating Stre~t.g\th Rank 1 1 Minnesota 20 6 0 85.02 63.18 10 2 2 Lake Sup.erior 16 4 2 83.47 6:L 3() 15 3 3 Michigan 18 4 3 83.17 61. 37 14 4 4 Northern Michigan 15 8 3 76.11 6li. llt 8 5 6 Michigan State 13 5 5 74.84 62. 05 12 6 5 Maine 17 3 0 74.16 115. 49 29 7 7 Wisconsin 15 8 1 72.35 62.79 11 8 8 Western MichigaD 12 8 2 68.46 61. 7E5 13 9 10 Alaska-Anchora~e 17 5 1 66.18 ~6. 55 26 10 9 Boston Universii? 15 5 1 63.46 ~7. ol! 25 11 13 Minnesota-Dulutn 11 12 1 62.96 65. sa 4 12 12 Providence 16 7 1 62.74 ~8. 61 23 13 16 St Lawrence 13 4 1 61.97 ~1. 78 39 14 11 Miami 11 10 3 61.27 59. 8E5 17 15 14 Michigan Tech 11 14 1 60.24 66.07 2 16 15 North Dakota 13 12 1 59.86 58.88 18 17 18 Harvard 8 3 3 58.77 41.!. 26 33 18 22 St Cloud 811 l 57.48 63. 911 9 19 17 Clarkson 12 5 1 57.20 4J., 03 40 20 20 New Hampshire 14 8 0 56.91 46.00 27 21 19 Illinois-Chicag~ 7 12 3 56.46 66 27 1 22 23 Colorado Colleg~ 8 12 4 54.23 60.80 16 23 21 Yale 8 3 3 54.18 ~1. 87 38 24 25 Ferris State 5 12 6 53-97 66. ol! 3 25 24 Bowling Green 5 14 3 51.23 65.55 5 26 26 Cornell 9 5 2 ll9.27 37.78 44 27 28 Denver 7 18 1 48.54 65.11 6 28 30 UMass-Lowell 8 11 2 M. 43 54.~5 19 29 27 Ohio State 6 15 3 1J8.25 65.06 7 30 29 Boston Callege 911 3 1!6.98 51.19 21 31 32 Vermont 9 9 1 40.56 37.76 45 32 31 Alaska-Fairbanks 9 12 0 39.84 ~4. 4q 32 33 33 RPI 9 10 0 39.48 ~2. 02 37 34 35 Northeastern 8 13 0 39.24 ~9,t7 22 35 34 Merrimack 11 12 0 38.97 4o. 53 41 36 38 Colgate 7 10 1 35-70 ~0. 27 112 37 37 Alabama-Huntsv ilb 5 10 0 35.19 48.. 06 24 38 36 Brown 5 11 2 33.85 45.38 30 39 40 Kent 3 12 2 33.17 51.. 53 20 4o 39 Princeton 6 9 0 33.04 4o.o4 43 41 41 Notre Dame 5 10 0 26.86 42.45 35 42 42 Union 1 12 1 12.76 112.:2:2 36 43 '44 Air Force 1 15 0 10.92 43.:23 34 44 43 Dartmouth 1 15 0 9-74 44.:83 31 45 45 Army 0 12 Q 7-52 115. '96 28 chach alk by John Schacbnovsky Associate Sports Editor The Su_per Bowl is over. The NBA and tile NIL have entered the meat of their schedule and the life and times of the sports world have entered the ftrst real lull of 1992. With this break I have a few questions that need answering. -Are there really less than 25 days until pitchers and catchers are to report to their respective training camps? -How bad was Bud Bowl this year? -I know it has been said a million times, but why is the AFC so bad in the Super Bowl? -Are the Bulls that good this year? (Okay, I'll answer that... YES ! ! ! ) -Am I the only person who needs a USA Today Sports Section the same way I need Oxygen? -Are their high school luge teams? -How does Rudy Martzke, the USA Today TV sports reporter, watch every TV sporting event? -Sam Bowie over Michael Jordan? ! ? ! ? -Does Bruce Smith really think he is a better defensive playerthan Lawrence Taylor? -Why is Eric Lindros sucll a loser? -Look ·at the Bulls starting five and the Timberwolves starting five ... any questions? -Why was high school sports the top story 011 Schenectady's ]()cal newscasts the night of the Super Bowl'! (Okay, I forgot, Schenectady) -Does it help Mike Tyson wllen his trial is mentioned in the same news segment as Jeffery Dahmer's'? -What idiot chose the hometown of the NBA's Warriors to be Golden State? -Can anyone name two players on t.he \'First Place'\ Vancouver Canucks? If anyone can .answer any of these questions~ please don't admit it, and whatever you do, don't write a letter to Concordiensis, it. can only hurt you more. ' . ' ' , . . t • • • . Consider becorr,ting. a Doctor .. ~ , Consider. . . · · I ! PODIATRIC MEDICINE ! I' Podiatric phy8icians are lic:crued m pmiet~r, diagnose and nut diseases injuric, deformities or othc:r conditions affecting the foot and ankle. • lm:o\\' u mmparable tc od!er medial specialties. In aclditicn, the avenge podiatric physician spends apprmrim:lldy 37 houn a w...lr. in praclice. while the: a~gc: mcdic:al doctor spc:nds over 60 - allowing the podiatrist m enjoy a well· rounded famdy as well as pro(essionallife. Podi:attiaa uc: the: only he:olth pmfessional:s who w.., with Docam olMeclicine, Oat.cpadty ond Ocncinry the Iqal audu.rir:y m adnunUrer m:at• ment: by medlcal and sur-gical means. The demand for padiaaioa' servicc:s ~the SUPJ>Iy of practitione:s. There is approximacdy one podiaaist for everv lQ,OOO Americ:ms. AJ:. cmdin11to !he O::arpaaoo Oudooir Handbook, c:mpioymc:nt of podiatrilO is expe<:mi ID fiiOW much faster than the~ for aJ1 ocxupacoru :hmigh the '~=' 2000. • Embllshu:l in 1911, N'1'Cl'M is the nation'& oldesc • Clinical hands-on taitliag without cqw:l at the and largesr co~ o( podiatric medicine. Gradu- lu!!=t foot care center irl the world, wh\\' ap- ates accctmt for approximacely 25% of the aa:iYc: pttllCi!Mr:e!y 60,000 pa%i=llll vUia ue m:ordtd foot specialisu in the Ntion. eacb yar. The scope ai poodiatric .....nc.s !. ..UO unrutpUI!Cd. Meet with an NYCPM Admissions Representative on sunday February 2, 1~92 at the Hilton Hotel, Albany NY from 4 to 7 pm {800) 526 - 6966 - •••

DUTCHMEN RECAP SPORTSWEEK HOCKEY WOMEN'S BASKETBALL RPI5 Union '3 Jan.30 vs. Albany 7:00 Feb.5 vs.Middlebury 7:00 MEN'S BASKETBALL WQMEN'S BASKETBAL~ MEN'S BASKETBALL Untica 76 Union 69 (4 01) Union'7l North Adams 52 Feb. 1 vs. HamiHon 8:00 Albany 55 Union49 Hamilton 78 Union65 Feb.4 at Hobart 8:00 Unbn 72 Kings Point 44 Union 71 Binghamton 62 HOCKEY MEN'S SWIMMIN~ WQMEN'S SWIMM!IN~ Jan. 31 at Brown 7:30 Feb. 1 atHaiVard 3:00 Union 121 Vassar 76 Union 128 Vassar 60 MEN'S & WOMEN'S SWIMMING Rochester Sprints 2nd of5 Rochester Sprints 3rd of 5 Feb. 1 vs. Hamitton 1:00 MEN'S TBAQK WOMEN'S TRACK Feb.5 at Albany 7:00 MEN'S & WOMEN'S INDOOR TRACK HamiHon40 UnioA 1'7 Hamitton 21 Union 1:8 Union17 N.Y.tJ. 15 Union 18 N.Y.U. 5 Jan. 31 Capital District Meet at Albany 6:00 C!IJJltfllrbirnsis JANUARY 30, 1992 Men's Basketball Wins Orie But Drops Two by Jason Graves Concordiensis Staff The Dutchmen had a toug11 week this past week droppin,g two games and winning one against a weak opponent. Their record has dropped to 6-7 now, with a tough schedule upcoming. Last Tuesday, th.e Dutchmen dropped a heart· stopping 76-69 decision in four overtimes to the 10-2 Pioneers of Utica College. In the first three overtimes each tearn managed only 11, 2, and 5 points respectively. In the fi11al overtime Utica outscore<! Union 17-10 to win the game. The lligh scorer for Union was Jamie Donigan with 16. Tony Marcon finished second with 14-. Freshman Mark Stodden also recorded 7 blocks for the game. Sophomore Keith Wick had 25 points for Utica. The loss dropped Ullion below .500 to 5-6. On Thursday the Dutchmen made the short trip over to Albany to play the Great Danes. The first half was slow artd Albany had a 29-23 lead at the break. The second half was all Albany. Union shot only 3 3% in the second half against the outstanding 64% shooting of Albany. Albany also held a 17-Ll rebounding edge in the second half, mostly on the defensive boards. Albany ended up winning the game 65-43 as Union just seemed to give up part way through the half, as the game was slipping away. The game was relatively clean with both teams only charged for 10 fouls apiece for the game. Union's high scorer was Sam Poulis with 12 points. Albany's Alex McClearn and Garry Murray both finished with 11 points. Albany upped its record to 9-6 while Union dropped to 5-7. Saturday brought an end to Union's woes as it faced a King's Point team with a 1-14 record. The Dutchmen took advantage of 22 first half turnovers and an 8 rebound edge to forge a 31-18 halftime lead. Greg Dolan had a strong half with 8 p<>ints and 7 rebounds. The Mariners looked to try and make it a game early in the second half by starting out with a 8-2 run that pulled them to within 7 points of the Dutchmen. Then Union played the best 8 minutes of the week outscoring King's Point 25-8 and building up a 58-35 lead. Mark Stodden stole the show during this time by scoring all ten of his points, blocking two shots, and following a quick- handed steal with a powerful two-handed dunk that took the breath out of the crowd and the wind out of the Mariners' sails. Union outscored, outrebounded, and totally outplayed King's Point in the second half and walked away 72-44 victors. Dolan finished the game with 12 points to lead the Dutchmen. Stodden and Sam Poulis both finished with 10. Continued on page 18 Lady Tracksters Cruisin' in the Fast Lane by Tasha LaBare Concordiensis Staff Hold onto your seats sports fans, the women's winter Track team is on flre. Last Satll1day (1/18) Union went head tc head with Williams, NYU, and Hamilton. Although much of the team is still on the injured list, the women stood proud. Senior Alix Goldschmidt gave a thundering performance in both the weight and shot. Starting her day off with a second place finish and an awesome toss of 11.66 meters (which constitutes a PR for Alix). Alix only continued to better her status by placing first in the shot put with a heave of 11.71 meters. Although Union only fielded four women runners, they burned up the track like there was no tomorrow. Three of the four trampled down the field in the SOm dash to go onto the final heat. This led to a thundering performance by Junior Denise Saunders who had a photo finish till the end. D. ended up with a second place finish with a time of 6.88 seconds. Coming in fourth was Junior co-captain Tasha LaBare. Showing us she has what it takes was Freshman Nadine Filosi who ran a great time of 7.5 seconds. Nadine also flaunted her talents when she placed fourth in the 50m high hurdles. Freshman - you've got to love 'em! Nadine and Denise took to the track once again competing in the 300m dash. The women finished the race with 48.8 and 49.8 respectively. Tasha was next up to bat with a third place finish in the 1500m. Yes, girly girls, she didn't even put up a fight. To round out the day, the last hut not kast, Joy Grillion joine!l the other three ladies to make up a 4x400 relay team. (jive those girls a hand, they came in second place. To more recent news, Union College once again hosted the annual Dutchman Games. I wouldn't kid ya, the girls were awesome! Once !lgain, Alix dominated the throwing field with her spectacular throwing abilities. Alix stepped up to the circle and tossed the shot 12.04 to capture fil'st place in the shot put. One win isn't good enough fm Alix; she comes back and n<>'t cnly wins the weight event, but she crushes her ow11 PR by launching the ,weight an incredible 12.7lrn_ Give that girl a hand! Competitors were sorry to see the U11ion women coming this wee!<,. they were on fire. Once again, the Three Stooges (Denise, Tasha, and Nadine) dominated tile field in the 50m dash. B11t wait, this week Denise finishes with a first place fini~h and a blistering time of6.9 seconds. Tasha came across with a third place finish and Nacline a fifth place finish. Two 1r1inutes after the SOm, Tasha is \ready\ for her first 800m of the season. Just a little out of breath, she finished second overall. We move next to the 300m dash where, SURPRISE SURPRISE, Ct1rly, Moe, and Larry arc once again ready to take on the masses. This time, partner in crime Joy Grillion joins them. Uni();n made an impressive showimg here, Joy walked down the competition finishing the race with a time of 49.7 sec. Nadine (AKA Larry) crossed the line in 48.5 sec. and a fifth place finish. D. (AKA Curly) fini~hed with an identical time, bllt placing Continurd ()n page 18

