VOLUME 122, NUMBER 1 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK SEPTEMBER 24, 1992 Responsibility Stressed for '92-'93 Fraternities asked to be more responsible about distribution of by David Levine Concordiensis Staff The· Union College administration has asked students to become more responsible in their consumption of alcohol in the 1992-1993 :school year, according to Dean Marnmola and President Hull. The new concerns over alcohol abuse stemmed from a few incidents that occurred last spring on the Union campus, as well as from a finn belief by the administration and faculty that students are capable of better achievement in the classroom. As a result of fraternities being the major source of alcohol distribution on campus, it is important for fraternities to be in accordance with the administration's attempts to cm:b alcohol abuse, according to Dean Mammola. The letter that Dean Mammola sent to each of the fraternities prior to the beginning of the school year stated that the school would like to work together with the fraternities \so that together we can work to find a mutual solution to the problem\. Mammola stated that the drinking problem was of direct relevance to the fraternities because of the cost of social host liability insurance. AI stake to the school was curbing \the effects of alcohol abuse., especially on freshmen\ and aligning social life \with the institution's academic mission.\ The requirements for fraternities conducting private events in which alcohol is to be served are listed in the student handbook for the 1992- 1993 school year. Fraternities are not allowed to invite more than fifty guests to a party. When the fraternity anticipates inviting more than twenty guests, they are required to register the party with the college. Only students with invites may be allowed into the parties. Fraternities are not allowed to publicly advertise their events. Non-alcoholic beverages must be provided for minors under the age of 21. alcohol. Furthermore, the school emphatically emphasizes lhat it is il1egal for fraternities to serve alcohol to those individual who are minors. With the hopes of improving academics, the school will not pennit parties on weeknights or after the ninth week of the tenn. and events held on Friday and Saturday nights must end by 2 a.m. For insurance purposes. Union College will require any organization S]JQnsoring a party to to have at least one million dollars in social host liability insurance. If a problem arises wbereby a non-invited guest to a fraternity becomes intoxicated and is detained for disorderly conduct , then the organization can be held responsible, according to a Union College security officer. In addition, there is a policy which requires all people who attend parties to dispose of their alcohol before they leave the events. President Hull expressed his belief in the need for students to change their attitudes about alcohol during his Opening Convocation Speech on Wednesday, September 9. The President refen-ed to specific incidents that occurred last spring as the underscoring reasons why the school will attempt to somewhat control the distribution of alcohol and to place responsibilities on those who serve alcohol. \For instance, if an individual drinks too much and becomes abu~i ve, .should friends -- real friends -- do something to stop him? Or if an individual announces that she, in the middle of the night, wants to do something that is inherently dangerous, should friends try to restrain her from doing so? Or if a student decides that he or she wants to major in all night partying, destroying chances for success at Union and making other lives miserable, should friends intervene?\ President Hull, in an exclusive Concordiensis interview , discussed that a Union College student, last spring, attempted to physically assault a delivery man. The student, who was expelled from Union, was under the influence of alcohol at the time. Another student did bodily damage to himself, allegedly after having had his judgement impaired due to a1coho1. Also mentioned was the fraternity brawl that occurred last spring between two organizations. Alcohol is believed to be one of the causes of the incident. Tile alcohol policy of the school st~pulates that a fraternity can be held responsible for the actions of an intoxicated individual who commits a crime after leaving an event. According to our sources, one reason the school is ' emJ)batkally promoting the rule forbiding weekday parties is several faculty_ members complained that some students have come to class with hangovers, and some have not bothered to show up at all. According to Dean Mammola, some members of the faculty and the administration are frustrated with the fact that students aren\t fulfilling their potentials in the classroom. Tile school, according to President Hull, will \ ... ex-pect more of students outside of the classroom, too, and students should know that, although they will have the freedom to act as they wish, the freedom that they enjoy is offset by responsibilities and acco!lntability\. By assigning more work, the school hopes to cut down on alcohol abuse. President Hull also stated that the College would not attempt, through security, to stop violations of the policies that were not apparent or brought to the administration's attention. According to the Presi-dent, the College could not feasibly be resJlOnsible for stopping all foolish and dangerous activities, but the members of the College community have a responsibility to. According to Dean Mammola, the school never considered passing a resolution that would have made Union a \dry\ campus, but rather sought to find a middle ground Ex- VP Arrested jack L Maranville= f()rmer Vice President for Institution.al Plan.aing at Union, charged with embezzlement of more than $60,000 from Union. See Page 2. whereby the fraternities and tile administration could wclik: together to stop alcohol abuse. In recent years, many campuses in the northeast have gone \dry\ because of tile numerous alcohol related fatalities that have occurred on campuses throughout the country. Union, not havi11g been faced witb incidents of this magnitude, {tid not see H1e purpose of con!;idering sucll a policy. Both President H11ll, and Dean Mamm() la acknowledge that, for better o:r for worse, drinking bas becorne a part of the college experience:. Dean Marnmola prefers to look at the school's stance <lll the consumption of alcoholn()t totally as a response to ·I be events of last spring. He said that he would like to think th:tt the school wotJld have talen snell a stance regardless of wh:tt transpired last year. The Ne\IIV York State laws forbid minors from consumin:g alcohol, and according to the Dean, \college campuses shotJld not be a sanctuary from fhe law.\ lbe Dean believes that a coll<!ge education is tantamount to an investment, an<l that stude11ts who abuse alcohol are diminishing the future retw11s on their investments. The response~ to the policies by st11dents have varied. Sa111e fraternity brothers are tto-t altogether unhappy with tlle reg11lations th.at seeming:ly diminish their power as a social force on the camplls:. One high ranking fraternity officer said that the effects of the policies are basically to turn the fraternities into \clubs\. He said that he was not particularly upset with the invite limits to parties. Frequently, according to this greek, organization members pay substantial amounts of money to buy alcohol for people whom they don't know. The new rule will still allow them to invite their closest friends. On the negative side, some greeks believe that the invite limits could have the effect of decreasing the size of the fraternities. \Fewer freshmen will be allowed into the parties, so chances are fewer will be interested in joining,\rationalized one brother. Quite a few students who consider themselves to he responsible drinkers feel that the new policies will have a heavier impact upon them, then on those who abuse alcohol. According to one sophomore, \In general, those people who will get invites to parties are more apt to be heavy drinkers than those students who normally could have attended a party, but cannot anymore. Whether these regulations are successful remains to be seen.\ The school is further trying to deter alcohol abuse by providing more social opportunities for students. Continued on page 2

by David Levine Concordiensis Staff Jack L. Maranville~ former Vice President for Institutional·· Planning at Union College,' was charged on September 18th • with embezzling more than U'O,OOO from the college. Union College President Roger HuH had Asked for an investigation after \ ... the apparent loss of more than $60,000 over a seven-year period\. Maranville, 55, was arraigned on the afternoon of . September 18 on charges of second-degree grand larceny, and after he posted the $20,000 bail mandated by Schenectady City Court Judge Louise Hea Smith, he was released. A preliminary hearing was set for Wednesday, September 23. After having been informed that the charges would be pressed, President Hull said \If . the allegations are true, this• · situation is really tragic.\ The. only further statement that President Hull issued concerning the charges discussed how \The legal process must run its course to establish the validity of the allegations. Until that time, there is, the presumption of innocence.\ Maranville, who resigned from his position on July 31, is still living in a college- owned home. President Hull stated that the former Vice- · President would not be able to live in the house indefinately, but \I'm not going to put his wife and kids on the street, either.\ Maranville declined to comment on the recent events. Dr. Maranville, who had served Union College since 1975, was named Executive Associate to the President in 1981 under President Morris. While working at this position for si:x years, Morris was re~ponsible for gaining more aid fot· Union through the Bow of Regents. In 1987, he was named Vice- Pre~ident for Institutional Pla11ning. The office was created so that the College could better achieve long-range goals. Maranville was to plan in conjunction with trustees, faculty members, staff, alumni, and .students. President Morris named Maranville \to manage a pro gram of planning and research in order to imrove the Cdllege's ability to understand the context under which it is ' operating , the direction in wbich it is moving, and, wbere possible, the area of opportunity or programs which 1 lie ahead.\ Maranville subsequently served as Vice President of Administration until he resij,lned this July. CONCORDIENSIS SEPTEMBER 24, 1992 PAGE 2 by Veronica Rogers Concordiensis Stciff Going to school in New York is getting harder every year. . The increasing decline of · state aid in New York will take it's toll on Union budget. The numbers of faculty and · administrative staff at all New York's schools are dwiadling; · at a fast rate. This results in increased unemployment and: lack of strong educators. , York in 1991-1993 wiU be a total of 177 million dollars. Union's 1992-'93 school year will show some loss of it's budget in many of the non- student program areal%. Academic Affairs, Campus Operations, and Administration budgets have been cut in an attempt to uphold and increase the financial aid availability for students who need complete or partial financial aid. Union has to raise tuition. but not at an unexpected rate. By cutting other programs Union is trying to fight the attack on Union's ability t<> provide aid for students. The budget cutbacks will cause Union to constantly monitor and re-evaluate it's spending. In the opening week of the term we had four incidents of an uninvited male entering other students' rooms in the early morning hours. These dangero!lls intrusions startled the oac~oants and are cause for concern to all of us. Fortunately no one was hurt, but the incidents do underscore the importance of following basic safety principles: New York is cutting tuition grants and other necessary 1 financial aid. New York used to be high on the ranking of receiving state funding. Now regions across the state are losing money by the millions. The capital district's state funding has been cut by 12.39 million dollars. Bundy Aid funding which as recently as 1989-1990, had provided complete funding that was necessary, has now been cut down to about 25%. TAP (Tuition Assistance Program) funding for scholarships has been cut by the millions. The· Considering there are numerous indepelldent colleges and universities in New York it is becoming more of a problem. The loss is greater in some regions but not because they are being singled out, rather it is because they have more schools. New York City is losing the most at 61.94 million. Each region and school is feeling the crunch. 1 . Please keep your doors locked. It is better to inconvenience room1nates and suitemates by asking them to carry their keys than to leave yourself open to having a11yone come in your room at any time. 2. If yoLJ see a suspicious person in your residence hall or lurking about campus, alert yoLJr Residence Hall S!Mf :mrl/nr r.~mn11c: ~~f~>tv ~~ flQ1; 3. Do not walk or jog alone at night on or around the campus. 4. Do not prop open residence hall doors. Lock the door behind you. Editor-in-Chief Ex.ecutive Editor News Editors Associate News Editor Features Editors Arts Editors Lifestyles Editors Business Editor Cam pus Page Editor Sports Editor Associate Sports Editors Ned Walley Pam Leinson Lara Chamberlain, Jim Polites David Levine Doug Bartell, Dass Seaman Carrie Sherman, Cort Boulanger Cara Soifer, Stacy Cervellino H. Shields Day Jen Poldmet John Schachnovsky Hal Poret, Rich Morgan, total state-wide loss for New STUDENTS '&ALCOHOL Continued from page 1 According to President Hull, Chet's was created so that members of the college · community could drink legally· · and responsibly. The school has remodeled the old Beta . will serve non-alcoholic drinks and provide entertainment. Furthermore, according to Dean Mammola, the creation of Chet's has enabled more entertainment opportunities in the College Center. Dagan La Corte, Chuck Rodman Advertising Editors Jen Shulkin, Rachel Tuck, Lauren Bycoff Photography Editor David Cho Convocation. 1992 : house into Fero Coffeehouse; which will be a cabaret that Subscription Manager Matt Grabowski Layout Staff: Tad Lee, Talley Belsinger, Lisa Lemoi, News Staff: Veronica Rogers Faculty Advisor Scott Scullion STAFF: Greg Barrett, Ron Birnbaum, Dan Bull~~· Craig Greenburg, Lisa Hofbauer, Tasha La Bare, Sean Livmgston, Louise Oster Peter Pretzel, Sreedhar Samudrala, Alli Wapner. Advertising Staff: Jen Anderson, Sharon Smith CONCORDIENSIS is published eigllt Thursdays a term by the student body <>f Union College, Scttenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office; Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Box 388, Sidney, New York 13&38 (607) 563-~339. Subscription rate: $40 per year, delivered anywhere m _the United States. Mail Subscriptions to Concordiensis of~tce, College Center, Union College. Concordiensis subscnbes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP). Office Telephone (518) 370- 6155, Advertising Telephone (518) 370-6494. SECURITY REPORT lliill_l reported location 9/13/92 Davidson 9/13/92 Fox 9/13/92 West College 9/13/92 Fox 9/13/92 Fox 9/13/92 College Ctr 9/14/92 ZBT 9/15/92 Sigma Phi. 9/15/92 Raymond 9/15/92 OeltaGamrna 9115/92 West Parking lot 9/15/92 Lenox Road 9/16/92 Residence Halls 9/16/92 West Dining 9/16/92 South College 9/17/92 Humanities 9/17/92 West College 9/17/92 Social Sciences 9/1 8/92 West College/Fox 9/19/92 South Collage 9/19/92 Jackson Gardens Incident Unauthorized ac~;tJss-Guest of student Trespass/White male In females room Student not seen since 9112- located Trespass - Females room Obscene telephone calls Off campus complaint of loud noise Theft -kitchen supplies from commissary Theft- of students bike Vandalism to plumbing- flooding Fire Extinguisher found outside of building Suspicious person/white male,approx 35 yrs olcl,.6'5\ Off Campus Accident I non -student Reports of debris in hallways Theft of potted plant Fireworks being fired out of 4th lloor room Vandalism - wlnclQWS damaged by pellets Student reports rEceiving annoying phone calls Theft of staff members pocketbook and personal papers Vandalism to t:.itEJ Safety Equipment Vandalism to E~h signs and various other Items . Vandalism- graffiti spray painted on west end of culvert pipe

CONCORDIENSIS • SSPTEMBER 24, 1992 • PAGE 3 by Jim Polites News Analysis Editor The inspiration for this article comes from a piece I stumbled onto this s11mmer while reading the sports section of my hometown news_paper. The columnist began by lamenting about how little excitement there is in his field during the warm months of July and August. As evidence, he cited the predictable decline of our regional baseball teams (the Yankees, Red Sox and Mets) from division races and the lack of confidence local football teams were inspiring (like the Patriots and Giants). Just when you thought he was serious, though. a ,tongue- in-cheek attitude emerged which told you he meant just the opposite. Looking back on the last three months, it would be difficult to argue\\ in both sports and beyond- that there's little out there to talk about. The summer of 1992 will long be remembered as the time in which basketball reached the pinnacle of it's worldwide popularity and attraction as our finest professionals did what everyone expected in Barcelona: bring world hoop supremacy back to the United States. For the true basketball fan though, the euphoria was cut short by the untimely retirement of Larry about a month Just as I would be remiss in not acknowledging it here, so too would it be to mention the meteoric rise of the NBA in the 1980's without referem:e to Bird's profound impact. Speaking of the Olympics, you would do very well to find something that can grip the entire world and hold it captive for two weeks straight. There's littLe doubt in my mind that sue h a spectacle has the influence to transcend culture, reUgion, language baniers, and political differences. I can only express my joy in knowing that from now on we'll have to wait only two years instead of follY in between Games. The reference to politics brings me to the headline news of this summer here in the United States, where we have a once-popular President trying desperately to win reelection. George Bush's term in office has been characterized by a nagging recession and a leader's inability to convince both the Congress and people of this nation that he has the ideas to pull us out of the doldrums. The Republican National Convention in Houston was a great opportunity to prove that 1 he was ready to fight for ' ano-ther four years in the White House. Though he raised the pitch of his call-to-arms, Bush instead ch()se to focus on the election of a House and Senate that would be more .sympathetic to INSTITUTE FOR STUDY ABROAD BUTLER UNIVERSITY UNDERGRADUATE STUDIES IN GREAT BRITAIN AUSTRALIA IRELAND NEW ZEALAND Fully integrated study at British, Irish, New Zealand and Australian universities FALL OR SPRING SEMESTER • FULL YEAR INSTEP • SUMMER PROGRAM • INTERNSHIPS Study Abroad Information Session Representative: Caroly-n Watson Date: Wed., Sept. 30, 1992 11:30 - 12:30 Location: Humanities Lounge 2nd Floor Fnr furtl\er informatioA please .:c,nta.:t: Your Study Atroaj Office c1n catnpus or th~ Institute tor Study Abroad. Butler l' nlversity, +600 Sunset .'\l:enlle. Indianapolis. I~ 4o208. Tel· 317/:!83-4336 ur 1/800-368-6852 Ext 9}36 J©in ~'fh~ C©rnrt:@rrrd/o~!fl1~5$ s~~,, m er his domestic agenda. The President refers to our legislative body as 'gridlocked' ~ and better days lie ahead for those who believe that the Chief Executive and Congress should be from the same political party. George Bush may just get his wish, though not quite in the way he envisioned. For the 'Generation Ticket' of Bill Clinton and AI Gore seems to have stemmed: any momentum the Republicans may have gained in August. Thanks to a wonderfully crafted New York City Convention that united the party rather than expose it's cleavages, Clinton has enjoyed a percentage lead that topped off somewhere in the mid- twenties. Clinton was also the major benefactor of Ross Perot's disench:mted vote when : he dropped out of the race, as. people made it clear that change was necessary- anyone but Mr. Bush they seemed to say collectively._ Many say the race to Pennsylvania Avenue truly begins for the two candidates following Labor Day weekend. It marks the time that tireless schedules, campaign stops and appearances, fundraising dinners. and speeches dominate nearly everyone's attention until November. For those of you who might be unsure on a choice (as I am), I urge you to watch the televised debates of the season. It's a great opportunity to see face to face questions of merir and accountability answered immediately, without scripted memos or advisor's influence. And if you believe that Mr. Clinton's lead is safe at about 9-10 points and he'll coast to victory in a couple of months. let me just remind you of what happened last when an incumbent Republican President lost reelection. In the 1976 race, Gerald Ford was down by 17 in the polls to Jimmy Carter following the challenger's convention. Though Carter did win, his margin of victory was whittled to a slim two points in the final tally. Who knows what could happen this time around. P R i N\ C l P )3 E S. ,,.l· S'. ·o U 'N 0 ... R/ E. T (. R ~ M· E.\N ';[ ·; r'N \}r,,E\ S. .T I N·.·c· ~ ' ' . ' . \' : ., r~ . I. --- ·\ L »-\4ft. 4\-' \?. ~./ (') ; ·-:, ·:-·· IRONICALLY, THE TIME TO START SAVING FOR RETIREMENT IS WHEN IT LOOKS LIKE YOU CAN LEAST AFFORD IT. C an't afford to save for retirement? Even if you're not counting the years to The truth is, you can't afford not to. retirement, you can count on TIAA-C REF Not when you realize that your retirement to help you build the future you deserve- can last 20 to 30 years or more. You\ll want with fle.xi ble retirement and tax-deferred to live at least as comfortably then as you annuity plans, a diverse portfolio of invest- do now. And that takes planning. ment choices, and a record of personal By starting to save now, you can take service th.at spans 75 years. advantage of tax-deferral and give your Over a million people in education and money time to compound and grow. research put TIAA-CREF at the top of Consider this: set aside just $wo each their list for retirement pla:tning. Why not month beginning at age 30 and you can join them'? accumulate over $192,539* by the time Call today and learn how simple it is you reach age 65. But wait ten years and to bui.ld a secure tomorrow when you you'll have tobudget $:-!qeach month have time and TIAA-CREF working on to reach the same goal. your side. StR-rl pU.,.n.ino your future. C11U our Bnrfl\lltrU!'tJt Hotline I 800 842-2888. Ensuring the future for those who shape it.sM

CONCORDIENSIS • SEPTEMBER 24, 1992 • PAGE 4 BUSH VS. CLINTON CAN EITHER BALANCE THE B ETI by Shields Day Business ond Finance Editor Since this is the first issue of C oncordiensi s during an election year. it seems almost necessary t;() review the budgets that were presented tllis summer by the two most formidable candidates (Perot not included). Clearly one of tile biggest issues facing this election is the U.S. economy and what steps eacl1 candidate proposes to take in order to turn the eco0nomy around. High unemployment and low interest rates leave most Americans wondering which candidate offers the fastest road to recovery. billion dollars - with not much progress expected for 1993. The economic rrecovery pulls the deficit down a little bit, but funding for tile S&L bailout will most likdy offset any possible gains. Both President George Bush and Arkansas Governor Bill Clinton claim they will be able to balance the budget. Bush says that he c:am balance tbe entire $330 bi!Jion by 199&. Clinton maintai11s that he can half the budget by 1996. Not surprisingly b()th arguments can easily be cllallenged lly any first year economic student. program increase in beneficiaries. However, if the amount of funding government agencies are going to receive is greater than what they have received in past years, Congress will step in to reduce this to a lower level. If this does not work, Bush will be forced to make cuts across the board - except for Social Security. CLINTON: Clinton is much less aggressive in response to the deficit. He says he can save $295 billion by 1996 (roughly half of the budget predicted by 1996). However, Clinton ingeniously forgets to add on to his savings the price to government for all the programs he plans to create, which lowers his prediction by about 60%. recovery, but his figures are much less bountiful than Bush's. Earlier Clinton claimed he would eliminate the deficit in his first term, but he has been slacking in any recent claims to such extent. Clinton believes that growth wiU only come through government spending. The major areas he plans to bless with an increase in spending are infrastructure, education, and training. BUSH: Tbe crux of Bush's argument rev{)~ves around a cap on entitlement growth. The cap is actually a percentage equal to the inflation rate plus a program by Although dliscreative idea is intriguing, it is almost certainly too clever to work. This plan is very vague in regards to which programs will suffer the largest cuts. This plan works well for Bush because he can make claims about a balanced budget without revealing, which agencies will get cuts. Clinton is much more certain about where his cuts will take effect, although maybe not entirely accurately. For example. he generously believes he can save $45 billion by cracking down on U.S. foreign subsidiaries. He also fails to include his middle- class tax cut in his prediction for reducing the deficit. Despite the fact the economy is the primary focus of this election, both candidates do not want to cut the deficit. Also, both candidates are hoping a strong economic recovery will help pull the U.S. out of this recession. Hey guys, cutting spending and raising taxes are not going to get the economy moving! By the end of 1992, the U.S. budget deficit will be anywhere from $320 - $330 Bush also is relying on ~, strong economic recovery to help balance the budget. Clinton is also relying heavily on a strong economic .) . JJl l 82 JJ Attend the CAREER FESTIVAL DATE: Thursday, October 1 TIME: 12 - 4 pm PLACE: Field House Come as you are. Formal attire NOT required. Uni?~l College r 11 r r::~:>pnml ';..·''=:.-':-';..·' l~nter UNION COLLEGE CAREER F.ESTIVAL I II Th~ foUitCCilth annual Union College Ca1·eer Festival, to<llbt! held in the Field House on Thursday. O~.:tollcr I. 1992 from 12-4pm. will pmvide a unique and valuable opp0111mity ft>r ALL students to discuss career options with corporate recruiters, gradll:tte school representatives. and professionals fr!lm a variety of fields. The theme this year is: '(;eta Clue in '92;' with all of the rcpr~sentativcs .uvailahlc, this is a great time to find out more ab<~ut career areas that interest you, and begin to amwer those questions 'What will r do after Uni(Jn.?' and 'How can I get there?' The inhwmal atmosphere of the Festival [,wilitates diSCliS:sion between stlldento; and .. pmfcssionals topmvidi! specific company/gradu<&lc _,dmol inftJII'IIHl.lion or general career direction. You can make <Jllntac.:tl a11d conduct infonnational interviews ~Witill'epresentatives from Andersen Consulting, Chuhh & Son. Ccl()pers & Lybrand, Empire Blue Cmss/Biue Shield, General Elcctric,ICF Kaiser Engineers, Wyeth Ayerst Laboratories, Yanl:t!lovich Clancy Shulman, atnong over twenty liv{! mganizations attending. lntcrcstc:d in grad school? Y nu can meet rerrescntutives:lil}m law. medical, busincs.5 and enginccling schools. as well as general graduate programs. Amf»ng the twenty six .<:chools attending will he Alhany Law, American University School of ]n,tcmational Service. Boston College and Bolton University Schools of Law, Monterey lnstiiiiie of lntcrnatiollnl Studies, NY College of O.~tcnpathic Medicine, RPI. SUNY College of Opttl'm etry, Woodrow Wilson School of Puhlic and lntemati<Jnal Affairs. For thnse not sure of what they want. this is an excel! en tt i1ne to consider volunteer and summcrjoh opptHiunilles as a way to huild skills and explore interest<:. Representatives will he allending from anum her 11f different local community st:rvice a:gencics. To maketl1e most or your time at the Career Festival, sttldlcnL<; are encouraged to attend the wmkshop on \How to Get the Most Out of the Career F'esti val,\ held on Tuesday, 9/29 ;II 7pm 1>r Wl\dmsday_t>no at .1:.~0 pm attht: CDC. The CentCI'lllso has handout-~ for studcnL~ on ini<>Imation intc:rvicwing to help in asking insightful and relcvall\ questions during the Festival. Tlw; Is ir1i\ormal. sll you don't need to put on a :-;uit. Just c-orm: and take advantage of the <.:IJaiKt' 111 sp.:ak with the many rct:niilcrs on c.:amplls on October I. Attend the Career 1-'estival! I;oi m<>rc infnnnatJon. contact Lori Rodrigue. at the Car~er Dcv-cl opmt'lll Center, :170-6176. So ... what i,s the Career Festival? Career Festival \k -'ri( )r 'fes-t -v 1\ n. 1: a gathering ~of employers, graduate and professional schools, and career field representatives; 2: an occasion for all students to talk with professionals about volunteer and summer job options as well as career fields; 3: an opportunity· for seniors to explore positions open to them as they launch their careers; 4: a stress-free environment in which to gather information and explore careers. CAREER FESTIVAL PARTICIPANTS Companies Aetna Life & Casu:.ilty Company American Frozen Foods Andersen Consulting Blasland & Bouck Engineers. P.C. Central Hudson Gas & Electric Cmp. Cl1uhb Group of Insurance Companie~ Citizen Action Group Coopers & Lybrand Empire Blue Cross/Blue Shield Equitahlt: Gl:neral D yllllmics General Electric Company Gril'fin Agency F-lcurt Information Systems, Inc. Hewitt Associates ICP Kaiser Engineers, Inc. Mitre Corporation Naval Undersea Warfare CcnterDiv., Newport New York State Dept. of Labor Northwestern Mutu11l Life-Albany Northwestern Mutu11l Life-Pougl1keepsie NY State ElectJic & Gas Corporation NYS Department o!' Transportation Residential Opportunitit:s Tams Consultants. Inc. 1:rustc.:o Bank Wycth-Ayerst Laboratories Yunkelovich Clancy.S.hulman <.iraduate Programs Alhany Law School AI huny Medical CeJllcr-Medical Technl>l<l!!Y American Graduate School of lnt'l Management Am~1:ican University School of lnt'l Service !Jilstc'!. College Law Sch<1ol AllSton University Sc:lwolof Law CDllcgc of St. Rose Franklin Pierce Law Center Graduate Programs (cont'd) Monterey Institute of International Studies New York Chiropractic C<Jllege NYU- WagnJr School of Puhlic Service Northeastern University- MBA NY College of Osteu(>athic Medicine Pace University Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute Roger Williams University School of Law Sage Graduate School Suffolk University Law School SUNY College o1: Optometry Union College- Graduate & Continuing Studies Union College- MAT Program University of New England Vi!rmont Law School Western New England College School of Law Widener University School of Law Woodl'ow Wilson School of Public & Int'l Affairs Comn1unit~ Service Or~:anizations Community Health Plan Municipal Housing Autho1ity Schenectudy Association for Retarded Children Schenectady Office for the Aging Special Olympics \GET A C .... UE IN '92\ A~ rtiE CAREER FESTIVAL Sponsored hy the Career Development Center, Third Floor, Old Chapel. 370-6176

CONCORDIENSIS • .SEPTEMBER 24, 1992 • PAGE 5 The Last of the Mohic·ans Courtesy ofTwentieth Century Fox Rresentation of a Michael Mann Film, \The Last of ti1e MGbicans\ is directed by i ~cbael Mann, who produced if WLth Hunt Lowry. Tile \The Last of the Mohicans\ is an epic adventure and romance set against the backdrop of the war raging between England and France and each side''s Native American allies, across the frontier beyond Albany, New York. The frontiersman Hawkeye (Daniel Day-Lewis), adopted son of tile Mohican Chingacb.cook (Russell Means), and Cora Munro (Madeleine Stowe), the daughter of an English officer, become lovers, and the fates of their families become intertwined as the war and the Huron war captain, Magua (Wes Studi), threaten to destroy them. executive .prod11cer is James G. . ,. Rob-inson. The screenplay is . , .... c-.._ by Michael Mann and ' Cllristopher Crowe, based on tile novel by James Fenimore Cooper and the 1936 screenplay by Philip Dunne. A Twentieth Century Fox Daniel Day-Lewis won the Academy for Best Actor in 1~89 for his portrayal of writer Christy Brown in the acclaimed '\My Left Foot\. Seen recently in the hit thriller \Unlawflll E11try ,\ Madeline Stowe made her feature film debut opposite Ri(;hard Dreyfuss and Emilio Estevez in \Stakeout.\ \'Tile Last of the Mohicans\ i.s coming to theaters in the area. on September 25. Ha~:Vkeye (DANIEL DAY-LEWIS, right foreground) pleaals for the lives of (left to right) Cora Munro (MADELEINE STOWE), her sister Alice (JODHI MAY) and Major Dur~can ·Heyward (STEVEN WADDINGTON) when they are captured by hostile Huron Indians. in Michael Mann's SIJJIIC romantic adventure \THE LAST OF THE MOHICANS.r Copyright.:· 1992 rwen~loth Century rox All riqhts reserved. Carol Channing Entertainment in the It Rita Moreno Schenectady Area at· ProctorS Courtesy of Proctor's Theatre Carol Channing and Rita Moreno open the 1992-93 Season for Proctor's Theatre ao 8PM on Friday, October 2 with \Two Ladies of Broadway.\ The show brings to the stage an evening of music and comedy reflecting the stage and nightclub careei'S of the two performing artists. The evening also features the Rita Moreno Dancers and the Festival Concert Orchestra. A double Tony Award winner, Carol Channing made theatrical history twice, with 3,000performances as Dolly in \Hello Dolly\ and 2,000 performances as l...()relei Lee in \Gentlemen Prefer Blondes.\ Her unforgettable voice has earned her ten gold albums and top status as the number- one seller of children's records in America. Her wit. a balance between capering. clown and adorable gamin, has established her as a solo bariety attractio11 to the acclaim of audiences ill e\ery major club and concert hru1lhroughout the world. Rita Moreno, a singer, dancer and actress, ha:S dis.ti.nguished herself by . wi11ning all fom major . e11tertainment industy awards- ~he Oscar, the Tony, the Em my, and the Grammy, an l!on()r she shares with Barbra ~treisand alone. Like· Channing. Moreno is seasoned solo performer. Her appearance at Proctor's will draw material fr()Ill her acclaimed nightclub act ·~ ••• Moreno didn't just sillg. She literally breathed life into each selection.\ wrote one rev-iewer following her February 1992 encagement at Cle\Veland's Palace Theater. 'rickets for the October 2 8PM performance of \Two Ladies of Broadway\ are available through Proctor's Box Office (518) 346- 6204 and all Ticletmaster locations. FRIDAY SEPTEMBE.R 25 12:30-1:30 CC205 Philosophy Student Speaker-Larry Krashoff 8PM & JOPM CCAud \Basic Instinct\ SATURDAY SEPTEMBER 26 8:02PM Nott Theatre-Proctors Too Diamanda Galas 8:00-9:30 Memorial Chapel- Theological Speaker J.P. . Moreland 8PM &lOPM CC Aud \Basic Instinct\ ·9:00PM Chet's- Roy Atkenson SUNDAY SEPTEMBER 27 8PM& JOPM CCAud \Basic Instinct\ MONDAY SEPTEMBER 28 9:00-11 :OOPM CC305 Musica Femina- Flute and Guitar Duo WEDNESDAY SEPTEMBER 30 4:00-6:00 Milano Lounge- Sogetsu Exhibit Reception THURSDAY OCTOBER 1 8:OOPM University of Albany Uptown Campus- Speaker, Cherrie Moraga, Chicano feminist, playwrite and poet. 8:00 PM The Original lVorks Repitory Thearter comedy \0 'Shaughnessy's Dead\ 1 FRIDAY OCTOBER 2 8:00PM Proctors \Two Ladies of Broadway\ Carol Channing and Rita Morino ' 8:00&10:00PM CCAud \White Men Can't Jump\ 8:00PM The Original Works , Repitory Theater \O'Shaughnessy's Dead\ ! SATURDAY OCTOBER 3 8:00 & 10:00 PM CCAud \White Men Can't Jump\ 8:00PM The Original Works Repitory Theater · f10'Shaughnessy's Dead\ SUNDAY OCTOBER 4 8:00&10:00 PM CCAud Men Can't Jump\ \White MONDAY OCTOBER 5 1:30PM Hyde Collection Museum- Beverly Mastrianni Discussion of her work, Abstract Sculpting ?:D0-9:00PM Memorial Chapel Susan Kano- Speaker on eating disorders TUESDAY OCTOBER tJ l :00-5:00 Library Field \Bread and Puppet Theater\ '11lrite !For Yl.rts I I .

. CONCORDIENSIS • SEPTEMBER 24, 1992 • PAGE 6 CtASS LlF 1993 Jon B. Adler J enni.fer L. Aronson Scott S. Asher Marc M.C. Aylett Rebekah S. Bagnoli Sanjeeve Balasubramaniam Subash B. Bazaz · Janet V. Best Gilbert C. Bindewald Ronald A. Birnbaum Marcy L. Blitt james M. Bothwell Anna M. Bou Elizabeth J. Brack is AdamS. Breslawsky Jason D. Buchwald Celin E. Buonerba Br1.:.n E. Bvrne McKeough E. Carlin Gregory Cavanaugh Garrett L. Chase Joseph R. Clearfield Peter A. Cocozza Jennifer L. Cohen Rebecca L. Coit Michael L. Collins Darren D. Dahl Asha M. Daniel Marc J. Daniel Anne L. Dantz Liana M. Das Lowell I. Dashefsky David M. Davenport Scott A. Day Joseph Demcza·r Kathleenn M. DiCol.a Christian R. Diemand Krishna M. Divadeenam Daniel). Donoff Shane P. Dormady Kristine A. Drew Christopher S. Eisler Peter J. Elkan Andrew Fallis Joshua S.H. Fausty Alexander S. Finger Pamela A. Finger Sara E. Finnerty Adam Fischer Timothy J. Fisher Cara ). Fleischner Jared J. Galazin Paul B. Gansle Theodore H. Geilen Jason Habinsky Timothy J. Hadden Ian A. Hammel Eric D. Handelman David B. Higbie Christvn L Hills Lisa \1. Hofbauer Shen L. Hoggins Wendy E. Holender Karen B. Hurwitz Tobias M. Jackson Michelle D. Jarney Michael P. Johnson Stacie M. Jordan Lori ). Kaiden Christa tv1. Kelleher Michael A. Kimber Allison R. King Sten·n W. Kinne David B. Kitchen Alison L. Kocsis DEAN's LIST 1992-1993 Darren C. Koppel TQdd M. Kosterman Deborah Kroll Jared C. La Corte Gregg R Lavine Lisa A. Levinger Lea A. Lewis Suzanne G. Lieberman Andrew J. Lipman Sean Livingston Anna R. Love Jordan D. Matsudaira Emily E. Maute Rozlyn J. McCall Beth Ann McKay Carmen L. Me Laren Nadine McLaughlin Glen D. Meixell Daniel J. Milsky James T. C. Moore Richard A. Morgan Sherine J. N abih James P. Nau David J. Novak Amy R. Ouida Jessica L. Page Joseph C. Pallante Jennifer S. Parisi David Passaretti Rudolf A. Pawul Amy C. Pfaffenbach Christopher A. Phillips Beth Pincus HalL. Poret David M. Pugliese James S. Rawstron Carlos A. Rivera Maya ]. Rosenblum Ari M. Rosenfeld Katherine M. Ross Jeffrey r. Roth !\laney M. Rourke Arnon E. Rubin Christopher Ryan Benjamin Salzillo Peter M. Savard Joseph Savoie Michael P. Scaccia Julie L. Schlang David W. Schmidt Peter B. Schwab T. Jeffrey Scott Michele A. Scrime Jennifer H. Seaman Brvan A. Selkin '\ilesh Shukla Tunya Smith David C. Sodergren Robert B. Speidel Srl'l'.kumar Subramanian Lisd K. Tesarik Elisabeth E. Tripp Ti1vlor S. Troischt Matthevv C. Tucker Larae M. Tumidajewicz Jennifer L. Turri . Chester J. Urban Heather VanDewalker Hope D. Vanno Timothy D. Vaughan Suzanne L. Vialardi Stacy C. Vogel Edward H. Walley Shea Z. Wallon Allison L. Wapner Marc R. Weintraub Ann Welch Frank Wessels Erik L. Westby Andrew Wickline Carla J. Wilson Irene Ya:hia Ronnie Yung Sven P. Zabka Joseph E. Zimmerman CJ A~~ 0/ 1994 Charles R. Agar Melissa F. Ahrend Jess G. Alcid Christine A. Alexander Michael R Andelman Nayana Anne Steven G. Battiston Randall 5. Beach Timothy M. Beadnell Talley W. Belsinger Jay S. Berger Kristen E. Breit Diana G. Brodsky Christopher P. Brundage Daniel J. Bullen R. Taylor Burke Mia A. Caetano Starra Cahan Laura Carini Jesse L. Chang Alexander G. Chiu Nina D. Cleary Eileen M. Calkin Rachael E. Conaty Christine M. Cote Belinda H. Crago Claudia David John J. DeMarco Charles J. Doering James L. Donigan Ben Meyrat Robert E. Murray Bac X. Nguyen Gregory M. Oswitt Rebecca Parlakian Adam M. Perlow .Aaron M. Plotnik Philice E. Printz Gregory Quirolo Tara A. 'Rabinowitz Dana R Rausch Thomas C. Rizzo Cindy E. Rothschild Karen l. Rubin Mahra :!3. Rubinstein Sarah E_ Rudgers Sreedha.r Samudrala Paul D. Schultz Pamela J. Schutzer Paul J. Schweiger Jared G.Selter Andrew C. Siegel Leslie S. Silver Eric L. Slocum Danielle M. Smigiel Nathan K. Smith Todd L Solomon Walter}'. Soule ·Jennifer M. Sweeney Brian K. Tan Sarah Teasdale Donald Tsay Karl T. Velde Jennifer L. Voerman Carrie D. Watson Margaret L. Weber Maurisa L Winters Michael' L Wolf Victoria L. Wulfsohn Jod:y L. Yetzer Christopher D. Yousey Adam S. Zinkin Ct.ASS ()f I995 Christopher P. Albert Julie K Anderson Greta H. August Aimee J. Belden Eric T\. Bennett RobinS. Block Ericka J. Bloomfield Scott W. Bowden Brian R. Brett Liana N. Brower Eric J- Bulson Jason D. Cardone Sarah E. Carpenter Nat.han K Coffin Bethany]. Cooper John R. Cressman Soume B. Daulat DeAnne C. DeFuccio Tiffani A. Demarco Dean11e M. Dixon James E. Dlubac Jennifer L. Dominelli Tamara L. Du :Lauren B. Falcofsky Julie Fasano · Elizabeth J. Feldinger Paul E. Foshee Sheryl A. Fredberg !Ramakrishna V. Gaddipati Anita R. Gambhir Ceoffrey C. Gardner Fran L. Goldstein Dinesh K. Goyal Craig E. Greenberg :[)ayna L. Greenberg Joshua W. Haines Karen R. Hamilton 'Teresa Hanlon 'Stephanie T. Hartmann Robert H. Haslinger Elissa D. Hecker jennifer ,L. Horner Charles B. Howarth Jennifer Huang Walter G. Jamouneau Jennifer A. Johnson Nirupama Kakarla Joshua M. Kane 5uleena Kansal Sarah Kipnes Glenn T. Konopaske Naomi B. Krupa Nicole F. LaTour Kenneth Lee David F. Levine Esther A. Levy Pamela Y. Lin Stefano M. Loretto Melissa S. Maguire Kapil Moza Tricia L. Nelson Charles Y.l. Orlich Andrea T. Pagnozzi Shannon L. Patti Scott R. Paulinski Justin S. Pechar Brian D. Reh Brett H. Rubin Erica L. Saltz Breton M. Saunders LeeR. Schachter Jessica L. Shair Cara H. Soifer Sandra Soohoo Georgia J. Southworth Adam M. Strafaci Wei YuanSu Anne Marie Sullivan Danuta Trzebinska Catherine C. Umphrey Tsutornu P. VVakino Maris J. Weiner Andrea B. Wilson CONGRATULATIONS FROM EVERYONE AT CONCORDIENSIS

CONCORDIENSIS • SEPTEMBER 24, 1992 • PAGE 7 SEXISM IS ALIVE AND WELL AT - UNION COL-LEGE b·y Amy Cypres Contributing Writer In the midst of trying to deal with our individual theses and maintain.ing some semblance of coml!lunication, my friends and I h;w·e reached a collective observation: sexism is alive and well' at Union College. As each ()f us recounted some recent experiences out and about ()fl this vast campus, we realizedone thing - that as long as we keep silent and continue to \pl~ty the game\ nothing will reaJly change. Even lately. when I ventured out on CaJl1pus, I found myself in the nni.dst of a debate on the role of 'Women in society and art, and tile injustices that have and still occur (my thesis topic). 1 was quickly labelled a man-ha.ter and dismissed. (A brief personal note: I am fortunate to lrnow quite a few enlighteJted men to whom this does ll()t apply, who are overwhelmed by their less- informed peers. (This characterization does nothing, creates 110 real commentary, and forces the women on this campus to tum to insipid con- versati<>'II in the hope that they will be a(!cepted. It seems that intellectual discourse, regardless of topic, is not an attractive trait. This is inexcusable, and ifs n()t only the fault of the rnale gender. If we allow ourselves t() be treated as objects or accessories~ th:en we're h.elping these attitudes along. As one friend remarked, \The best thing you can be on this campus is a senior guy; being a senior girl is the worst. \ The fact that we believe this is an indication of how women even now view themselves almost solely in terms of Dla.lt; approval. We should be f!r<Jud of how far we've come as ·individuals, rC1lching a level of knowledge and awareness that we hadn't experienced before as males OR females. There's got to be sometlling to the cliche \Knowledge is power.\ Another friend keeps asldng: Where are the worne11's unions at Union? Their invisibility only furH1er illustrates the continuing se:xist attitude. We're capable of more than this passive acceptance and futile namecalling - women have to stop competing ·with each other and support <Jur individual choices. We as women should start to defi11e ourselves in terms of ourselves. Not that this excuses these men. Women are. ·generlilly MUSIC FEMINA, a flu1e and guitar duo, will be IJerfonning music by . women composers in the Strauss Lounge-College Center 305-on Mon., 9/28, at 9 PM. Playing a br()ad range of music that's both pleasurable and historical, \ ... Music Femina makes classical guitar and flute music accessible and enchanting to a wide audience\. Sponsored by Women's Studies, Arts Dept., College Center, and Women's Union. COME JOIN treated as pleasant diversions. Women are talked to rather thatl with, to quote one very enli~Shtened male friend. I sat in amazement as I spent one nigllt watching a female friend. try to have a conversation . about women, in the midst of a group .of men, who vainly attempted to switch the topic of conversation to something more essential: beer, and I thinlc something about the TV set. Ah, how silty she was! Is this really imp-ortant? The short answer, yes; the longer, we 11eed to realize that having fun, light conversation is fine, -and definitely needed, but men need to realize that women are capable of more taxing thoughts than hair and nail :polish. Women have to start demanding to be treated as equal beings. Men have to stop fearing strong, intelligent, independent women and encourage some real free thmaght. If I achieve !lnything in writimg this besides putting my own .anger to a constructive use, it's to make it dear that we need to open a dialogue to make it clear where opinions are expressed honestly. Becanse there is no time or place for this, it's all the time and everypla~e. It has to be. BREAD & PUPPET THEATER HElP (REATE A NEW WORI< FIRST MEEIING: MONDAY. OCTOBERS, 1992 AT 7:00PM AT THE NOTT MEMORIAL THEATER / STUDENT FORUM SPOTLIGHT by Alex Sklavos Student Forum President This week's meeting brought talk about making our meetings as accessible as possible to invite greater participation from the student body that we represent. Along those lines, let me remind everyone that all Student Forum meetings are open, and if . you have something on your mind you rna y come to our meeting, or tell. your class representative (list to follow). In two weeks we plan on having a \Town Meeting,\ designed just for listening to student ideas, problems, and suggestions. Please join us! Our next meeting, on 1 0/l at 7 P.M. in room 409 of the C.C., will bring discussion on steps we can take towards repaving the .up-campus parking lot, and possibly starting a petition to enhance the gym facilities for non -athletes. Class Representatives: Senior Class: Lara Chamberlain, Roxanne Schneider Junior Class: Peter Savage, Bill Nook, Damon Keller Sophomore Class: Jon Miller, Hallie Heller, Mike Quinn DON'T TELL ME THAT I'M HAPPY by Dug Bartell Features Editor - . \Warning: this beer causes eyesight and judgement to be blurred. Do not consume near potential mistakes.\ Did you know that I'm generally a very happy person? I hate happy people. I also hate grumpy people. What I really hate though is people who aren't sure wether they are grumpy or happy so just go along changing moods_ whenever they damn well feel like it. I hate that. Always avoid a beer that has any of the following warning labels; \Warning: contents may settle, shake before serving\ or \Warning: laboratory animals have dropped dead drinking this beer.\ or \Warning: Do not drink near open flame.\ Some beer may even be so bad as to qualify for \Warning: this beer is worse than Golden Anniversary.\ or \Warning: consumation of this beer may actually get you to give up drinking.\ What I hate worse is people who go around judging people and expressing their opinions about things which are really none of their business. What is it any of their business what mood people are in. I hate that. Of all the things that stir my ire though, one thing really gets me: I hate bad beer. Don't get me wrong, I'll drink it. But not without hesitations. For ·instance, I think some beer, to remain nameless, should come with warning labels. \Warning: this beer may cause serious gas in the morning, do not consume and expect to go to church.\ or Some beer is brutal enough that simple warning labels wouldn't cover it. Some beer should come with aspirin taped to the can in order to cure those \instant hangovers\ associated with your average budget brew. Still, regardless of it's flaws. I shall drink it. It serves its purpose. I really don't even think: I hate it. I'm probably just in a bad mood. Next week I'll bitch for a while about the upcoming election~ which I really hate.

CONCORDIENSIS • SEPlEMBER24, 1992 • PAGE 8 WHAT DOES THE FUTURE HOLD? Where has the work ethic that pulled our father's fathers through the depression gone? Certainly not to my generation. We are products of the \Me\ generation, or YUPPIES. As our predecessors expected something in return for nothing~ we expect everything. So where does this leave the future of our country? FOR SALE. rushed to fill the gap. This has proved to be much more than financially rewarding for them. In other words, America took the easy way out in re-routing workers to what seemed to be greener pastures. Now, this country is now paying heavily for tbis mistake. Franklin Delano Roosevelt said in his second Inaugural Address, \We have always known that heedless self-interest was bad morals; we kn:0w now that it is bad economics\. Our parents and their contemporaries are prime examples of this. Their collective economic prosperity skyrocketed daring the past decade, and only now is this country beginning to be affected by previous bank -busting policies. The drive and determination that made our country great has been lost to satisfying personal desires. This is a country filled with lawyers and bankers, not factory workers and hi-tech engineers. Another injury the United States' government has inflicted upon its own people is that of providing ·an educational system that doesn't work. Only Switzerland outspends the United States in education per student. Yet, the U.S has not foUDd itself among .any of the top ten lists for the past few years. Our schools simply do not produce the de1ermined, hard working, able bodied adults that are necessary to keep our country in a position of world leadership. Instead, the product has been a generally egocentric, narcissistic pool of youth, unwilling to do anything that is not demanded. If my generation does not drastically change its habits, then only grave danger can lie in wait. The citizens of the United States have been The present financial dominance of Japan is in actuality, a product of America. During the Vietnam War, our government began moving engineers from the high-risk fields of private research and development to the safer, more reliable pC>sitions offered by government military contractors. At this point, Japan saw a hole in the worldwide market and selling off bits and pieces of this country. Business has ·allowed markets to go abroad. This is evolution. But what is in store for the United States of the twenty- fit:st century? If the average citizen becomes solely concerned with filling, his or her pocket, then our country is doomed. Letter From Stamford Bridge, by Brad Perriello Contributing Writer Soccer, or football as it is known here. is the national pastime of Britain. Largely a working-class phenomenon until recent years., a representative from nearly every social station can be found at the typical match. David Mellor, the British Minister of Heritage, attended today' s game (N<Jrwich City vs. Chelsea); rumors abound about Mellor, known popularly as the \Minister of Fun\ who married a lass half his age. The rumors mostly concern his sexual exploits. One such rumor has it that he has sex in the uniform of bis favorite football club, Norwich City. At the game. he of course sat in the good seats, which go for £20, or roughly $40. The cheap seats aren't seats at all. Called \terraces\, they are basically concrete steps with risers of about 3-4 inches. Spectators in the terraces stand for the 90-minute game (two 45-minute halves). These seats cost a mere £7. or only $14. and you won't find any Ministers of Fun packed in with the crowd. I was a bit nervous about the match, remembering tile worldwide headlines a few years ago when 95 people died at a soccer game in Hillsborough. This apprehension was not at all Chelsea, London allayed by the fact that supporters of Chelsea, .~e !ocal team. were seated (or' terraced, really) in one area, with the away fans segregated at the other end of the arena. \To avoid riots,\ my English friend explained, after confiding that he had.n' t worn his Norwich jersey because he didn't want to ile beaten up by roving bands of Chelsea supporters. In fact, there is a sort of street gan~ called the Chelsea Headhunters who go around kicking the hell out of fans of their opponents, and leaving cards on their bleeding bodies which read \You have been selected and dealt with by the Chelsea Headhunters.\ Even less reassuring was the presence of. at least one policeman for every ten spectators. For a crowd of 16,0()0, this is a significant presence. Highly visible in their flourescent yellow slickers, the cops were a muted but omnipresent element during the game-, standing about ten yards apart around the pitch (as the soccer field is called bere), and periodically making a sojourn in groups of three()£ four up into the stands. In addition there was the normal complement of arena persC:)nnel. I stood with the away fans, as tile person I'm currently staying with is an ardent Norwich supporter. Currently leading the Premier League C the top league in Britain, which makes Norwich the best team in the U.K. for the moment), the team is enjoying an unprecedented success this year. We arrived early, at about 2:00. The game was scheduled to begin at 3:00, and the away terrace was soon fun. Imagine ':,000 or 2,500 people standing shoulder-to-shoulder in an area roughly the size of the Dutch Hollow, screaming and cheering as the match progressed. The chanting soon began, and unless the editorial policy of Concordiensis has changed consi~erably since last spring, the basic obscenity of most of these prohibits me from relating them verbatim. They mostly concerned Chelsea, its fans and their general importance, although a few were reserved for Norwich's arch-rival, Ipswich. One fairly innocuous cheer was the endless repetition of \We are top of the League\: it is amazing how much noise just a few young men can make (the crowd in the away stand was almost exclusively young, white and male, a nightmare for the P.C. crowd but quite nice if you happen to be a youthful caucasian lad). These guys made Chi Psis heckling at football games seem like a few Medicare retirees feebly crying \Bingo .. on a Sunday night at the Shenendahoah Senior Citizens' Center. Another cheer, similar to a Marine marching chant (as seen in \Stripes\) consisted of one guy leading the chant and the rest of the crowd repeating after each line: Everywhere we go People always ask us Whoweare And where we come from We always tell them We come from Norwich Mighty Mighty Norwich And if you can't hear us We shout a little louder This goes on until the vocal chords of the leader become so frayed and ragged that he is compelled to end with \And if you can't hear us/ You must be f-ing deaf!\ The songs went on throughout the game, which Norwich won 3-2. The match itself was as ,ex~iting as the possibility of violence. English football is much faster and rougher than is its American counterpart; the ball is in the air a lot, as opposed to the on-the-ground style of American play; At the end of the game, the away fans were held in their terrace, like Muslims in Yugosla\ia until the rest of the arena was cleared of every Chelse11 fan. The songs continuecl lustily as we left after a 15-minute delay, escorted by policemen, many of whom were on horseback outside tile arena. Afterall of the buildup I was expectili.g some fighting, but I saw nolle. The Underground (Londoa's efficient version of the subway} ~tation near the stadium was closed to the away fans mntil the Chelsea supporters had cleared, and there wtere too many police around for anyone to start anything;. Howe\'Ver during the game there was a Chelsea fan standing; right in front of me who wo11ld jump up and down whenever his team scored. He was then ejected into the aisle by the surrounding Norwich faits, and I'm pretty sure I saw a few sly rabbit punches landed on his kidneys as he was pushed around. Apparently he was \mates\ with some Norwicll. fans and went to the game vrith them. After the match llis friends burned his Chelsea scarf amidst cheers, applause and another rendition of \Shomt a Little Louder.\ Follo'.JVing the game we had some fish and chips with salt and vinegar, as is the custom here, and got on the train for our two..;llour journey home to Wisbecfu. where I slept off some more jetlag and swallow-ed the disappointment of not ·1011itnessing any fights. Maybe 11ext time.

CONCORDIENSIS • SEPTEMBER 24, 1992 • PAGE 9 Sun Worshippers Beware 'liy Bruno Bemzaquen Contributing Wrlter of appearance and the risk of skin cancer. miraculous sunscreens. These lotions which contain mainly lubricants and moisturizing agents, also contain the chemical PABA (para- aminobenzoic acid) tile active ingredient in these screens. The Perfect Poison In the past, aad up to the industrial revolution, dark skins and tans were looked down upon by the ruling elite. These dark and olive skinned peo)>'le represented the lower clas~ working the fields. A :pale color was a prized {X)S~ession in that period and it was <:ommon that the nobility wouLd even powder their faces. N~edless to say that in our modem cultul'e, where farmers hav~ turned into factory workers, it is the tanned skin that bas become a sign of affluence. Ta:nning is the body's own protective response to the aggtession of the burning rays of tlte sun. Whe11 the skin is expo~ed to solar radiation, a special group of cells in the dermis synthesize a dark p:igm ent, melanin. which is, in some ways, capable to block the 'high-energy ultraviolet radiation emitted from the sun. Dark skinned people tan faster than fair skinned people because they possess a larger number of those melanin prodl.lcing cells. In addition, freck::les are caused by the non-11nifonn distribution of those. cells. In recent years it has become more and more evident that the continuous and cumulative expo5ure to the sun over long peri01ds of time, becomes a great factor influencing the rate ~. . '\ It has become common knowledge that skin cancers have increased dramatically over the last thirty years or s0. But how many times have we heard these claims without really listening to them? It is an unfortunate reality that we have become totally unresponsive to the fact that even a skin cancer is a very serious iHness, and that it may lead to death. People should understand .that the risk is very real, and· that at the time when we're lying on tile beach (West beach that is) , our bodies are fighting a very real attack. The UV rays of the sun irreversibly damage the DNA (the genetic material) in our skin's cells. Fortunately, we do not develop cancers immediately. Our bodies possess a defense-repai·r mechanism capable, up to a certain extent, to undo the damage done by the sun. On the other hand this mechanism is not infallible, it may become overwhelmed at some point in time and in that case, well ........ IT'S :MELANOMA CITY! Although we are all somehow aware of all this, neither you or I will stop exposing ourselves to the sun in the very near future. Being realistic does not mean irrational. We should be sensible about our health and learn to protect it when we can. One way of doing this is by using the not so original or by Bruno Benzaquen Contributing Writer PABA acts like an air-bag in Natural poisons have a long an automobile, absorbing the history gong back about 5000 initial shock of the impact. We . years to the Sumerians who should also be aware of what I made use of opium derivatives. the numbering system on the . . T:he Greeks' p()ison of choice bottles really mean. A number · was derived from poison of six, for example, simply hemlock and its most famous means that we can safely stay · victim was Socrates who died a under the sun for a period of up slow, painful death described to six times longer than in detail by Plato in one of his without lotion. Of course this works. The Romans made period of time is particular to extensive use of lead acetate each individual. which they mixed with Artificial tanning agents are in fact dyes. These contain carotene derivatives wlJich are deposited in the fatty layers under the skin giving it a particular (and not so pleasing) carrot-like color. Another revelation from the great solar conspiracy is that tanning salons are the worst possible ways to damage your skin. You are basically subjecting yourself to unhealthy amounts of UV light in a short period of time. Finally, some advantageous points about tanning. If you notice that you feel sexier, slimmer and generally better looking when you are tanned, you probably are! Some recent research theories advance that the sun's rays may actually stimulate the formation of certain sex hormones. How about that for a change! beverages. usually wine, to mask its horrible taste. The famous Romeo himself committed suicide by consuming aconite. a powerful vegetable poison. With the advent of modern science and the development of the fields of toxicology and analytical chemistry, came the decline of the popularity of poisons. The advances in these fields made possible the appearance of conclusive proof of use and presence of poisons in murder cases, making it easier to bring convictions into the courts. Today probably fewer than 1% of all homicides are caused by poisons. Although rarely used today, arsenic was very popular in the past. With a lethal dose of about 3g , arsenic can be found from many different sources ra.nging from pesticides to medicinal tonics. RESERVE OF.FICERS' TRAINING CORPS This poison in the form of arsenic trioxide or as an arsenic salt (e.g .. sodium arsenite) is not advantageous for immediate poisoning. Rather. added in small quantities over a long period of time is more rational. The victim would in time develop neurological symptoms and eventually die. Arsenic chemkally binds to the sulfhydril groups found in ~ the body's enzymes and renders them inactive. Common antidotes would consist of compounds containing very active sulfhydril groups that would swamp the arsenic's effect on the body. Strychnine, is also one of the all time favorites poisons used to murder people in the 19th century. This substance is derived from tbe seeds of a tree, Strychnos nux vomica. With a lethal dose of o11ly lOOmg, Strychnine cau~es hyperstimulation of the cwt.ral nervous system creab11g spasms similar to those cr~ned by the tetanus toxin. Death occurs generally by asphyx.iation. Cyanide is probaoly the r1unst weB known poi son in history.The toxic action is caused by the cyanide ion, CN- , and it has a lethal dose in tlhe order of 60mg. The poiso1n is usually delivered as its salt form, potassium cyani(Je (KCN), and death occurs m()re or less rapidly depending o0n the amount of food preseaf in the stomach of the victim. At the end of World War II. Nazi chiefs committed s11icide by breaking a cyanide capsul~ in their mouth. In this case tibe poison was in the form of hydrogen cyanide, a gas, that is absorbed into the bloodstreill11 via the lungs in a few second:s. The lethality of cyanid~ is derived from its mode of action. It acts at the. cel1111ar level where it binds to the central iron atom of the heme group in the enzyme, Cytoctuom e o:xida s e, , deactivating it and :preventi11g it to carry on its normal function of A TP productio11 in the cell. The antidote for allis kind of poisoning is. soditlm thiosulfate, which is the malin chemical used in fixing solutio11s in photography. But as mentioned eaxlier none of these poisons woufd be a good choice for premeditated homicide simply because of the amount needed to be letl!al and because they are so easily detected. On the other hand, hope s:till remains for those with I homicidal tendencieS. S~me toxins and glycoproteins Sllch as diphtheria toxill and rici11 ( a chemical derived from the castor bean) have lethal d<Jses in the order of 70 micrograms ( a microgram is a millionth (}fa gram) and they would sarely pass unnoticed. In principle only a single molecule ()If a toxic glycoprotein is neces:sary to kill a person. Of C()urse tthe availability of sucll substances is rather limited, but thinl of what you could do with. a couple of grams of a pUire bacterial toxin. .A college education takes $$$. students majoring in engineering, Don.'t send out an SOS. U 2 can get science, business, nursing and a the$$$ you need with a merit· ~~- number·of other majors. B l of SCIENCE AND HEALTH IS A NEW based Army ROTC Scholar· them. Army ROTC scholar- ship. l,OOO's of scholarships ships are A+. They're as good are awarded every year to as Au. ARMY ROTC m SMA.RTESTCOWGE COURSEYOUCANTm. - Try an ROTC Elective this Semester and go for The Scholarship Opportunity! Contact: Captain Steve Smitll, 783-2536 ADDmON TO CONCORDJENSIS, AND IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO CONTRIBUTE, PLEASE CONTACT NED AT 4306 OR 61550

·.· CONCORDIENSIS • SEPTEMBEI< 24. l992 • PAG·E 10 Who's Afraid of The Big Bad Snuggler ? by Erin M. O'Neil Features Writer I'd like to start this article out by saying that I am by no means trying to offend anyone on campus by writing this. The crime of sexual assault is a very serio.us issue, but it is· not the crime that I am ·writing about , it is the perpetrator. The perpetrator of the crime has been deemed \the Snuggler\ and his crime is snuggling. The Snuggler? Come on. This1 is a guy who has been terrorizing my dorm; preying on innocent victims as they slumber. He enters their room via an unlocked door, or a master key (it has not yet been determined which), and just lies down in bed with her. He doesn't hurt them, or threaten them, he just... snuggles with them. This is not normal behavior. I mean, what is up with this guy? When my RA told our floor about this \Snuggler\, I burst out i n to u n co n t r o II able laughter. Am \i supposed to feel threatened by a :guy with. a :cute name like 'the Snuggler? If anything, his name makes me want to curl up in bed with him on a cold winter's night. If he had been called \the Squeezer\ or \the Mad Mattress Mutilator\ I might tremble with fear, but the Snuggler ... I don't think so. Actually, I think I had a teddy bear with that name once. I would like to take you through what I think would be a typical day in the life of the Snuggler: 9:30 A.M. - Wake up for Precep. (I have a suspicion he may be a Freshman, to be explained later). Get into the shower and chuckle, recalling the reaction of last night's victim. 1i: 15 A.M. - Go to the College Center. Check mail. Scope out potential future victims. Avoid prior victims for fear of recognition. !2:30 P.M. - Lunch at West. Sit .alone at a side table, pretending to enjoy a potato knish, while actually checking out the females and try to decide if they live in his dorm; or if he's already snuggled them. 3:00 P.M. - Return to room. Ignore roommate. Begin plotting for the evening. 10:30 P.M. - Go out to fraternity of choice. Get drunk. 2:00 A.M. - Return to room. Change into Snuggler outfit, i.e. black face mask, black turtleneck, black spandex and black Chuck Taylors (I have no documented evidence that he actually LONDON • PARIS • WASHINGTON INTERNAnotiAL PROGRAM • 0 0 l-( ~ 0 < ~ • ~ r.r.:l ~ < 1-( z • ~ 0 ~ >< 0 BOSTON UNIVERSITY LEARN HOW THE WORLD WORKS Global Internships and Language/liberal Arts Programs ~ 0 < > • • BEIJING • SYDNEY • MOSCOW: • Name:------------------ Address:~----------------- City/State/Zip: _______ ~-------- Phone:( ) ____ University: ---------1 Fall 0 Spring D Summer 0 19_ Internship Programs Language Programs Summer Programs Dlondon D Gren<Jble 0 lor~don OPoris D Oxford 0 Madrid D H if 0 Padova DMoscow a o D M drld 0 Paris DSydney a Dp d Osvctney Dwashington. DC a ova T 0 OMoscow DBei)Jng Oxford 0 Nl DBel)ing retum to· orney Boston Universlly, Division of International Programs Dwashlngton. DC 232 Bay Slate Road, Box Q, Boston, MA 02215 or call (617) 353-9888 ASK UNCLE EDNA dresses in this fashion, but wouldn't it be so much scarier if he did?). 2:10 A.M. Enter victim's room via unlocked door or master key. Climb into victim's bed and snuggle until she screams or delivers a kick to the gwin. Run out, yelling obscenities. Hide out in a dark corner for a while. 3 :00 A.M. - The coast is clear. Return to room, quietly so as not to wake roommate. Remove Snuggler disguise, and place it in secret hiding place. Go to bed. And so the vicious cycle continues. This Snuggler is making the lives of the residents in his dormitory miserable. Security is so tight now th a t i t' s a I m o s t impossible to get into the dorm without an J.D .. Roommates are constantly locking each other out of 1heir rooms for fear that the Snuggler will enter during their absence. We've been told to lock our door even when going down the hall to the l>athroom. This is ridiculous! I can't really say, because I'm not a guy, but would it really get you off to lie down in some random girl's bed for about thirty seconds tJntil she screams or inflicts bodily harm upon you? I am going to have to venture a guess and say no. Snuggler., I'm talking to you personally now; get. a life, or at least a girlfriend. You can't continue on this way, it's not healthy. Besides,. you're going to get .caught. My roommates and I made a plan to wait up .for you one night with the door open so we could catch you when you came in. Unfortunately, we fell asleep, but that's lucky for you, because if you had come in we would have kicked your snuggly little ass. I'm not .afraid of you. You're a wimp. Your nickname is the Snuggler. Isn't that kind of a harsh blow to your masculin.i1y? Do your friends call you Sn uggy for short? Do you have friends? I suggest that you stop what you're doing now and get on with your life. You're young (lthink), you can change. Nobody knows who you are. Just stop what you're doing and let the rest of us continue to live normal lives. One of my best friends fell victim to the Snuggler. The snuggling occurred the evening before the upperclassmen were to arrive.~. She came up sarly, and left the door unlocked because I was moving in early the next morning. She says the remembers waking up Dear Uncle Edna Uncle Edna is in ~:ehaiJilitation from a .summer run- in with JJiant- sqtlid. The jtJllo wing is a ~ompilatioll of some of last yearf highlights ---Dear Uncle Edna, Can day care centers be open at night? - Chuck Dear Chuck, I think you've taken a few too many philosophy courses. ---Dear Uncle Edna, What has been the biggest thrill of your life so far? -lk Dearlk, I was 16. My couch. Cheerleader. Clothes off. Deep breathing. Nuff said. ---Dear Uncle Edna, Last Friday I hooked up with a girl notorious for sleeping around. I know she llas a reputation, but I really like her. What should I do? - co BOX 83 Dear CO, For starters try penicillin. ---Dear Uncle Edna, I am a female and can't get along with any of the guys on my floor. Any suggestions? - P'S Dear PS, Midol ---Dear Uncle Edna, Recently, I've noticed myself being ignored by all others around me. This is very depressing. I need to know what I can do to be noticed. I feel my life isn't worth liv:ing when nobody knows I exist.- M.K. Dear M.K., What was that? Dear Uncle Edna, Every day after math class I leave with terrible headaches. I recently have gotten glasses but they don't seem to help. What do you suggest1- VO I DearVO, Stop going· to math class. and yelling \Get off me, ·get .off mel\ to a large m.flle figure laying on ·top of her. The Snuggler then looked at her, muttered \Oh shit!\ and ran ·from the room. She recalls hearing the alleg.ed Snuggler, relaying · the incidcent to a friend in front ·of the dorm. This is why I believe the Snuggler is a Freshman, because upperclassmen were not supposed to be in the dorms. I believe that the incident with my iriend was simply a case of mistaken identity which has snowballed into a s.eries of snuggling attacks. Maybe the Snuggler is doing this to impress his male Freshman buddies. Maybe he thinks it's cool that everyone is in such a panic because of him. Maybe he's a twisted, deranged, psychopath. Who knows? All I can say is girls, lock your doors, and Snuggler, look at yourself. Are you really proud of what you've become. What would your mother think? Stop Snuggler, if for no one else, do it for you.r mother. WRITE FOR FEATURES! CALL DOUG AT 4040. lit·i· \lffl@1;®jjt-1?;J 1. W4iyne's Worid starring Dann · Carvey (P:1ramount - Rated: PG- 13) New Entry 1. The Hand That Rocks The Cradle Annabella Sciarra (Hoi- . lywood Home Video - R) Last Week: No.1 3. The Prince Of Tides Barbr:;:~ Streisand (Columbia TriStar - R) No.2 4. Hook Robin Williams (Colum- bia TriStar - PG) No. 3 5. Rush Jason Patrie (MGNI/UA - R)No. 4 6. Juice Omar Epps (Paramount - R) No. 12 7. Grand ·Can-von Kevin Kline (Fox Video- R) No. 6 8. C:ape Fear Robert De Niro (MCA/Universal - R) No. 5 9. Bugsy Warren Be:my (Colum- bia TriStar - R) No. 7 10. Stop! Or :\-ly :Vlom Will Sh~t Sylvester Stallone (MCA./Universal - PG- 13) No. 8 11. Ruby Danny Aiello (Columbia TriStar - R) No. 14 1:2. Father Of -The Bride Steve Martin (Touchstone -PG) No. 10 13. The Addams F~mily Anjelica Huston (Paramount - PG-13) No. 11 14. Shining Through Michael Doug!~ (FoxVideo- R) No.9 15. Star Trek VI: The Undis- covered Country - PG) No. 13 16. Kuffs Christian Slater (MCA/Universal- PG-13) No. 17 17. Mv Girl Macaulav Culkin (Columbia TriStar - PG-13) No. 13. !\.fan In The Moon Sam W:nerston (Fox Video- PG-13) No. 21 19. The Great :\-louse Detective (Walt Disney Home: Video- G) No. 16 20. Love Crimes Patrick Bergin (HBO- NR) No. 19

' • • ' .'' t • ,· • • o • • I .' - • . - . - ' . . . . . . :=ll ' . CONCORDIENSIS • SEPTEMBER 24, 1992 • PAGE 11 . . etti.n Know A W~eekly Profile of the People at Union Q. So, you gen~rally oversee thin8s? A. Yes, iii a sense. e and A with Lee BltJtPmrosen, Director of th.r Colleg~ Center + St11.tlent Acti,vities and Ass~tstant prfJjessor of ThtJatre. Tn his fourth yetJr at Union,. Lee talks alu; ut the CoUege CtJ11ter, c;hanges, Chet's, and mfJre. Q. Then~ are lot's of things ,happening in the college center -these days. One new thing,for instance, is the game room. Tell me about that. Q. As the director of the coriege center and student activities, what does your job entail? A. Well, the game room opened up last Friday in room 302. the old cabaret room. It has video games as well as basketball, free ping. pong and pool, as well as food vending with microwave accessl!lbility. H is very imviting, especially the free pool and ping pc11g. A.. I believe that's probably tlte ·longest job title . on carnpus. As dir.ector of the college center and student activities, I am in charge of day today operations of the college cemter, direction of student activities. coordination, pla11ning, authorization of eJC)Jenditures and planning as wen as advising some inwvidual clubs at Union. Q. Sounds great. What about other improve.r11ents, such as these made ll'n the fourth floor'! l. Bobby Brown .. Humptn AJ'C)und,\ (MCA) Last We.ek: No. 1. 2. Shakespeare's Sister .. Stay,\ (London/PLG1 No. 2 3. HouseOrPain MJump Around,\' (T<>'mmy Boy) No. :3 4. Elton Jobn ~The One,\ {MC No.4 5. Bryan A<lams ~Do I Have Say The Words?\ {A&M) No.5 6. Toad The Wet Sprocket ··All I Want,\ (Columbia) No.6 A. Yes, we've renovated410 into a student acti-vities workroom including.offices for the Sentinel. the Garnet Yearbook, the Camp Hollywood video club. a Rube Creators Syndicate. Inc. ® 1 992 Leigh Rt.Jbifi!' 7. Genesis ·~Jesus He Knows Me, · (Atlantic) No\ 7 8_ Patty Smyth ~sometimes Love Jllst Ain't Enough,\ (MCA) No.9 9. K.W.S. \Please Don't Gn,'\ (Ne:u Plateau) No. 8 10. IIi-Five- '\She's Pla-·;ino Hard - ::. l'oGt!lt.\' (Jive/RCA) No. 10 : .. Top R&B/SaUI · ~ ·. I. Freddie Ja~kson ~~ Could Use A Little Love (Right Now)'\ (Ct~pitol) Last Week: No. 3 2. Bobby 'Brown \'Humpin · .Atound,\ (MCA) No.4 printer room, and a central conference Foom open all day. The student activities workroom also will have two Macintosli and one IBM computer for student use. Q. You mentioned earlier that the cabaret room had been changed into the new game room. What will happen to the Cabaret productions? A. The cabaret was a great idea but unfortunately there wasn't a budget applied for for this year. It is no longer an active club, however, any club designated as inactive can easily be reactivated by contooting the student activities office. Coffeehouse i:s another good example of an inactive club that was, when active, a very positive thing. Fero House (formerly Beta), is being renovated and will have a small room available for coffeehouse- type productions. Larger By Leigh Rubin 3. R. Kelly & Public An- ll'()llncement -slow Dance (Hey Mr. · OJ)'. (Jive) No. 5 \'Hough knight, dear?\ 4-. Hi-Five -she's Playing Hard To Ge1,\ (Jive) No.8 5. Rude Boys ~My Kinda Girl,\ (Atlantic) No.6 6. Chaka Knan ~You Can Make Th~ Story Rigb.t,\ (Warner) No.7 7. levin Campbell \'Alone With Y()u,\ (QwestjWarner) No. 10 ~. Jade \[ Wanna Love You,\ (Giant/Reprise) No. 11 \), Miles Davis ~The Doo-Bop Song;· (Warner) No. 13 l 0. After 7 \-Kickin' It,\ {Virgin) NQ~ 20 . Tap.C:&W S.fngfes: 1. Tracy Lawrence .. Runnin' Be- t..ind,\ (Atlantic Album Cut) Last W<tJek: No.2 2. Billy Ray Cyrus .. Could've Been Me,\ (Mercury) No.3 3. Alan Jackson .. Love's Got A Hold On You,\' (Arista) No. 8 4. Aaron Tippin .. I Wouldn't HaveitAnyOther Way,\ (RCA) No. 5 5. Doug Stone ~wamin·g Labels,\ (Epic) No.7 6. Cbris Ledoux .. Whatcha Gonna D() With A Cowboy,\ (Liberty Album Cut) No. 9 COUEGE STUDENTS MAJORING IN Allied Health Professions Discover a challenging, rewarding future that puts you i11 touch with your skills. Today's Air Force offers ongoing opportanities for professional development with great pay and benefits, normal working hours, complete medical and dental care, and 30 days vacation with pay per year. Le.arn how to qualify as an Air Force health professional. Call USAf HEALTH PROFESSIONS COllECT (315) 455-7060 .::.::::-; - :::::::::::::::::::~:.::-.:::_L:; :> ------- ......... ~-;r-~~=' events can be staged in other campus venues such as Old Chapel or Cbet's. Q. You mention Chet's, a topic that certainly has been the center of many discussions at Union. What are your thought about Chet's? A. Chet's holds great potential. I think slowly but surely we will continue to grow. The Fe are going to be many exciting things happening at Chet's in the near future, for example the broadway Cabaret on Oct. 3. Q. That reminds me, what do you know about the new theatre that is going to be built? A. Yes, actually I am aware that although it is stiH in the planning stages. it probably will be built by sometime next year. Q. Where exactly? UNION COLLEGE Philosophy Department Fall 1992 Colloquia A. In the area behind North college overlookin!l the gardens. Q. What else is in sum: for us at the co He ge center this yeor? A. Well, you've probably noticed the electronic ti.cker in the college center whioll runs news from a national service as well as our own Union <:ollege announcements. A11ybody interested in running news on the message board :Should contact the student activities office. Also, there is a new 18' screen in the auditoritJm and soon we will enlose the old information booth witll glass bulletin board to make a truly centralized information center. This is all part of a continuing process to make the college center as inviting as possible. The college center is g.rowing and continuing to imprn,ve. September 17 \The Story of Life: Hermeneutic rerspect1ns on the Relationship Between Narrative and_ Life·· Guy WiddersFtoveh Ri j ksuni versitei t, Li01 burg September 25 Octoberl6 October30 November6 November13 \Political Teleology, Political Speech: Kant, Habermas and Oakeshott\ Larry Krasn()ff Virginia Polytechnic In.stitute \A Defence of Realism\ William P.Alston Syracuse Cn jvesi tv \Pregnant Ad diets\ Bonnie Steinbock State University at AlbJny ''Problems oi Knowing Self-Bel1<:ilt'' Linda E. Pa trik Cmon C&t~gc• \The Doctnne ot Paronvmv in Aristotle's Categories & the Lite Learners of P.l.:J.to's Soohust' Wolfgang R..1iner ~!~nn ColumbiJ. Lmversttv HumJ.nltles Bldg. Rn: :1 3 FndJ VS, )·.jj P \I All .:~iluq:Jll ~ 1r~ c>r~r. ·, :ho= ?~8uc· ·fur turthe!* :ntnr-:i!.Jtll'r:. · .. \n.[JL: .~1~1 -;:--,~ . .,~- ... •••• P t T . ... I ••• ar • 1me ~a es ·: $ 11.25/ Hour • No Experience Necessary a All Majors • Flexible Hours Schenectady, NY Location National Services Inc. Please Call: (201) 305-5950 •

Tht.• Sl:'l\olarshtp Thic>$\ M ~hui.Jr~t,.r ~\> J•vardt\d 0r1 thl' bil.~l!l ul mcnt o~nd .. l1Jt.J,ter to .m u.,tnt..!uJI ••In' c. .:a lull·tllht'. gt.tdwt~ .;t ... J,n:&: cnrrllt'\J 11\ .J proll<JIIl ul· >lUll) 1[1 \'\' .. .:strr ~upplv flc\,j wht .. b lt.Jil~ tu o1 \tJ'>ohl 1 Jl lu~her .J .. ,;rt't' dl .J.ll Jt.cr.,!ttcd o.Al<ogl.\ \'' UIU\~~~IY II\ m~ Unn~ ':it.JU;!i> r'r<:ll'll~nu.• •d !,IVt:n tu 4p!JhOO:J~lS wh11~0: , o•u.J~I'S 1,)1 ~1uJy .lit' u.ln\t.:l.n<..,j '\\ Ill~ t·t·nct•C'ldl hJ w~tl.'f '\'Hks prJ-.lto~ li\ N.,.w I••<'). :iot~llt' It g t:Dl:;lllt.·ef1ng J~.:~•g,n lltLhtv nJJl\LJgl.'m~mt or r..-g•Jiollh•r• tn• .. ltml•nl p1.1nt o.Jr•<:IJI;..;n) flo.: ol\volrd WLIJ h• pr...:.t.'ntet.i !(> •t•r '\ Lptt.\Otoll ll>t.\ ,nnu.tl\>~mng ldn•ltn~ nl 'I'<' ~,,.._-ttur'l n..:~tpl.an~~ ur the .uv.trJ Ju!l':o nut •OhsJt~ the .n .. aiJee 111 ~n~d tn.: wJI~:r . .,,ff.J. UetJ oH d ~.Uio'~f t\0\\l'\l.'f >ll.h ., .. ..:rpt.dnce .:lo.:~ ubiJ~.lte Ill..- ~1-'.JTJel) t.., .. llll,ol~l-\1tlv pur~ue ho..•..thl!'r \vA!rr •\out~ r~I.Jt~~ • .Jur:.e Ill ;tuJ'1' througll the.4\'l'~r..i .... u Th~ Jwdr..it't' w1U bt: .:n.:out.:lg~\'l bv tl' . .:o ~IUJ~nt A~U\ HI!.':> 1 .. \.Jfi\U\Itll'~ tl• prep.u.- JJl,j p•~~nt t...._nm~JI p.lpL.'n vn .. ~.u ... r >LJPFI\' trt'dtll'<'nt anJ .iJ~tnbuttun Jn..l ••olh•l 'lUlll',- m<L!'\ol~~lll\'llt JL.!flll); lh~ .... , ... [Jtllil ~ !C'(h!J\.ll rrvgt.lrrl.> An dppltrant must be .- ~r.ldu.-.te stuJ~I't o:nr~ll~~ as ~·lull·tlm~ matl-tCUlJh'(.! !>bJ.J~ut m .:J ~Luter's or haghcr progran\ at an ..l((h:~dil.aj, <~:ollege\ ur ul'liV!.'P.>Jiy rn th~: UmtL\1 StJtc~ 1\c.adl!miC J~htl!'vem\!'nt 15 J mJ~r f.\\tm rn the ~e!L>t.II>Jn prO(I!!>S h~IV~I'~L tll.\!1~ arl! t•L>t m1nunurn l~'t1ULI1;'m~~t:, Apprvpnate lv,•LgtJ.I 1:0 l!jL'vt.\'ll roa ,ru..:ld'ltl~xtrn~11m,ul.u .t•h\ltl1es .u .. h .J~ pJrt11.1pd11011 UL :SIUJIJnt ,holph?ri c.)l prvh)~\>.~t•<a.l )0(LI:'ll~ .:~1'\.J l\oOt~ ..-lpcn~nco: n11he ..-.aLeru.spplr held Tho: <1pp1tlU'It'; ~uur1of .. .,.<Jrl:.·trl·olfo;'A& rel,nN \' .1 ,-Jr,..~r ·,n 111..- ''alc:r >upph ttdd .Jnd rntcr.:st m ».llrl \11pplo tl.'ld.Ltd l~'>lt'MCh v..1ll be <uru.Jllere.J fllldilCLoll ncn.f Will b~ ol f.l.l:IOr Ill •~h~'Ctto•n OJ1IV L[\' c.s~e:. wlwr~: olil <Jth'C!r tJ,t(.lr~ \PP~lr- ~\.f\.1~1 In '\-' .J:.e :>hJI1 ttlc i \\.lrd ol:l o.ombln.llu•n '\'th ,,tht't ~.fluiJ~h·p~ ·lf lt;'ltJwsl'llpS \'\\'''~'\! lht: ~·J•I ~1 t\ulhlil. t,)l.(bL.)oh:, JflJ utb.:r ~.h!liJ.~tr, 1<'\:':o Applicatll>n F(lrm~ r.h~ Jpphc.Uton J ... olJ l111e I~ -...uHitlt·~r tS~ I'J-J~ .\pplt~>~IJ.Jn h•rn\S .~;r~· \''.llt~l>l..-1 r.·rn lt -\''\\-'~''-' '~\' ~11 o.]'l.o\'\' \o•J It l'Jl R''\'\'\ Ub ~ ~ 1'\pe&. t .• wur, ~...;np.:o~t .~ ..... ., \'\\'~nl\')' rl\ !lo• lofJ ~•D-ill' 1'<\ lll'l9' lurv1~wn NT 1,;'11 RUSSELL C. SUTPHEN SCHOLARSHIP FUND .-\.m cncan \Vater \Yorks A::o::,lh.t.lthJn \i~.,·\.v Yur\... St.1te ~L'LlH..Hl l9cJ3 eiJ1i~A.M PROBLf:M:; 11t1eettng announcement) Numbers lrom 1 ID 6 may be placed along lhe soces of an equ<lateral trrangle, 6 n 5 3 4 so il1a1 the !urn along eacn edge •s the same (12m tn•s case. a.n 1 by the way, the so·lutton 1s not umque.) Can r-ou do the same for a regular 5·gon (pentagon) us11>g the numbers 1 ihrough 1 Q? Whal about a regular 7-gon using the numbers 1 - 14, or .n general any •egular n-gon wtth an odd number of Sides? Do you J,ke ta solve problems? Cons1der JOining the Putnam. pr10bl€rn so1vmg team Nhrch meets Weanesdays at 230 PM m BH106. C£XP'Itf£SS LCUCJ{CJ{ PICXCZlP BE..\{ T!IE L/.\E; (i/1.\8 I :1 tr, Ll \0/ l.\/J r;o OLD CHAPEl~ LOBBY :-,10~DAY ·WEDNESDAY· FRIDAY L l::JO · L: I j P!\1 \-TK\L C.-\RD_HOLDERS O\JLY_ A committee has been established to consider t~e tenwrability of Prof. Pilar Moyano (Modern Languages). Any member of the college communit:y urged to Kell ente:r who can contribute to the committee's deliberations is contact one of its members, Profs. Jonas (History), (Modern Languages), Rivera (Mechanical Engineering), or Wilson (~erforming Arts). lll!IH<' \''\'111hh• Vvd<tlllH'' l·llvn :-.in••P•·•Ii \ln.i llq .t >hot.! (let'lllU Ill time, damn ' hnrcog-r.lpht•J l•lle11 '>ill<Jpoli ·II.~> g.llht•reu .file <Tt'<lltloli lcwal daJII't' talent Into hv1 IICI\ ., lllllp.nl>. l'lit' l·llen ~ill!lll1Jil Dawe Company, whit h hat! -It~ ,,.,,~,,, .• ,.,1 < llll< pf'l, at Skidmore hi llt'loher.\ ·1 his t il<tllon Is taken I rom <a It'\ it•w in I ilL' TillleS •ilnltlll, llcreinher or J')'JI. Hlen was a\\ill'•til•tl tl.it• lit it• ol \Rookie <JI tile 'Year·\ lor her rhi.Jrt'\ogmphy in the 1 ··'l'il I lhiri< .1 .. 'lhil r;n.iL'.\\ .111d lllctll) oih<:rs ha1:e rec 11gllited hl'r 1\l'i'ltr.tlted' pie<<'~. I ht• 1\IL'trol.tnd 1.1\ugu~l l''l'J.l·) U\\:lrdt:d hL·r \\ilh thl' titlt:nl \lk~'>t ( ·IHw~·\grapheT\ to ernl•rgc In (he area. Not orrl) siHlUW l·ll~·n Ill' rroud • >I lwr .H • ompDi<IHnl!n t~ with l1ersell and her dmu L' ltlllll'\ll). iml also~\oe >IHJuld hL• J>routl (o htll't' ht•r as r horer\\''\''''\r' I or l'lw I> am~· I nsemb le: H,u1re l·m;eml,le 1 1s lhlio11's Jlerlorming ~10up. 'I lie IIISl'ittbll• perfr.>rms at least <Hue tllrcmghDul the srhool )ear. joining th<.! l·ns<emhle is a gretll 'va)' to keep up y<mr t.!an1 ing or to explore <Ill lnlt'le~tln pL·rlormhJg. ·I.e• hnllfUC rlasses ,trt: also olleretl in till' l'crl orm lni{ 1\rls ~IU~Iio. ~loucm l'l;tsses are oflered on Wednes<.l<J~ s, .J:.{Il I\. Ioden I ,\lid I •:1)1.) i'llode m II. Tor a I ee 111 $1>0 per term. •ll y>u 1'<1111 W join the Fns<emh!c. it i~.requlrcd Lo take one ol the IL't bllit[ue 'h1sse~. < lur rneetill~> .tr<C <111 ·1 ue>da)'S in the Performing 1\rts Studit> at 7:110 p.m. So. WL'Ii·ome: !·lien and wei! ome new memhers! Schaffer Library NEWS FROM AROUND THE WORLD Clwrnistry Department Seminar: Friday, OcL 2, !2:30pm, NW5E 222. Foreign language news programs will be shown in the Language Lab (HU 01 0). All are welcome to atteild. Book Sale 1992-93 Fl'.LL TERM \The Ongoing Revolution in Mass Spectrometry and Its Impact on StructuraJ ~iology\ Dr. Ste~en A. C~rr (U_nion Class, of 1976), .Associate Director, Physical Stnt<:tural Chem1stry, Sm1thKlme Beecham :Pharmaceuticals. Schedule: MONDAYS, WEIJNESDAYS, & FRIDAYS GERIVIAN 2:00pm FREf'JCH 3:00pm SPANISH 4:00pm September 22 October 20 Ch~mistry Department Seminar: Friday, Sep!l. 25, l2:30pm, NWSE 222. \Ph()totransposition Chemistry of Aromatic Compounds ... or How to Scramble a Ring\ Professor James Pavlik, Chemistry Department, Worcester Polytechnic Institute. TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS HEBF!EW 1:30pm CHit-lESE 2:00pm J/\PANESE 3:00pm RUSSIAN 4:00pm WINTER TEEM \An Ad Hoc Committee has been forl!led to <examine the iJity January 12 February 9 of Professor Thomas Ross of the Arts Department. Anyone who would like to contribute to this proc=ess should either write, or call, the chair of the committee, Pr~fessor Robert v. Wells, Department of History, Social Science Building, extension 6223.\ !'lo Sal~ ~ n Ma~ch 1--------------------------------~-----------l NeVIs programs are also transmitted from many other countries and will be recorded upon request. Faculty are welcome to borrow tapes. Ordinarily, tapes are kept in the lab for two weeks. For more information call Marion Bailey, Language Lab Technician, X6216. LANGUP,GE LAB HOURS: SPRING TERM Apyj 1 6 Me.y 11 r., romni tte<\ hr.~,o heo>n form€'r:i t<) evah;at-e the tPnurabll it y nf Th\'t\\>'<S' ljct;;;r·ty. 1\.SSJ'\'t\lnt ProfE\ssor of Eccmor11ics. r.ommirtPP mernhP• s R.YP: ·~·bristopher 10il\'S (Physic\) Bruc~ Re-ynolds (Ec-onomics). Don~ld Tl.urs':nn (Hi.,tnry/Pnlitn:al Science). and Harry l1::1rten (English\, <:hollr-.'rh-:>s\' 1-1ho w1sh to offer tbeit: views l:'egardi.ng Prnfe:::so1· \'c('artr's teFl.rhlng. research. or colleg\ -,e~'!l~\'e :u:e invi+·e~ 'r wJi'~ to any membE>rs of th>\ comm.ittef'> or to contR>:'t Harry Milt't\'!' lr,• ~052\ to arrange an jntervi•w. I.E.F. DF.ADU NF Monc';ty-F riday 8:30am-4:30pm Sunday 1:OOpm-4:00pm Stmda-y\ Thursday r :OOpm-1 O:OOpm The den<ltme for proposals for the Internal Edac.mio11 Founcl:nion in two categories · <>tuc.lent·irutiated resE>.urh projects and ''educationally innovcttive projerts\ is October 30, 1992. Come and watch the news with us! Proposals for stttdent~iniriated rrsearch projerrs 111usr h!lVt\ thl\ wrirren approval of a f;~rttll-y ad\·isor who has Jgrf'ed to supervise the project. Tlte proposals should be submittf'd to the Dean's Office (SIOO. Sctence & Engmef\ring Buildi.nz) on forms av;ulablf\ there. A tenurability review for Professor Teresa Meade of the. History Department is being conducted this term. Any()ne wishing to submit a statement concerning the tenurability of Professor Meade should coflltact one of the members of the ad hoc committee charged with corJducting this review no later than October 16, 1992. Cornmittee members are Professors Sharon Gmelch, Erik Hansen, Lind<· Patrik, and David Peak (chair). Simi!nrly, members of the College community wb>- havl.' \educalionally innovatht>. proposJls should submit them to rhe snme office on form.:s ilVllilnble there. Forms for raculty Research Projects are also available in the Dean's Office (5100). GuidC'!ine-s with respE\rt [0 the I.E. F. are ~vailnble i.n the pe'ln's Office. lmtuiries abuut I .E. F., I he guidelines, or the proposal deadline should bo clJrectecl to Margaret Dalton. Adminisrrarlve ·J\ssistant to the Associilte Dean of Facullra When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem mtes are normally limited to $50-&5 per day. Transportation costs should also reflect the best rales available. Students who are plnnning to do intemews musr: indicate that arran,ge:mrnrs hnvc already been made. lfy<Jur research includes work with huomn subjects. then the propos:1l must have prelimina:ry appraval fmm the Human Subje<-·ts Research Comminee before jt can be funded by lhe Subcouncil on Und~rgr~duate Research. JOHN C ROBBINS SCHOLARS! IlP FUND .\menC.ltl w.,ter \Vnrk~ Assotialion '\!ew ·, ork State Section 1993 rhe Scholarship TI-e Sl.IOO~hol:trdltp IS a~.1rd!!'d np •llP b.l<\5 of ml'nl artd ('h~tilltPr 10 c1n ondwtdl..\1.-.trnt!,~ f\tll lin·• r\\<l ~•-<:Ou.,JJr\1 ... hdol o;rudrnl enrolh:.•d lit 1 !'<'~13m IJI oudv 1r> •PI\ \•ltl\r .:;upph loekt whtth ltcldS. t·t , a.,~t11•1.'1r.., o.lE~reP .11 ~n accrE'dtlffi ,.,u~~\' c.r Ulll\t'I~IIV tn !h,~ lJr\lted Sti!IC'3 ,,,,rrf'Lldi' ,,. ~tu•n to -'Pph<atil'> will'\o;e ·'uro:;t\'' .... f <;ruth are !\ansid~>rOO to lw \\~\'''IICIJI to wat~r wnrko:; pnc:trce •n \~w l'e>H ';>!Jtl' •t·~, fn~t11~1Ut>!; dest>!;l' utdttv PaM~emPnt or r~guliJUan. trr.ltmf'l1t rl.lnl •p('13111\l'' floE! Jwafd ~Wtll bt> prr''if'[ltll\d to •f\1Ptl!\'':tJ.uP['LI at tbrannwl Sprtn~ l1ePttl'1gof 'hPS'-\CilOT\ A.cc~ptJnc{l of !I-.E\ o~\<ud do~?S \ot •l'llttaH• ,,,,. IW<trd£'E' IJ tmlpr tht> ~'~IE'r works ltE\td .u a ra1\~Pr. howeY€'!, ~11r1't ~c •. rptanre doe--; Dblig<~ll\ the ;hvatdt>t' to Jtlt~l\ni!V rur=ue ht.Sih('f \._';lleT \VI'Ltks ret.11Pd cour'.i£' of o;.tudy 11--.rrou~;h the .1\ard Of'ilt Ill£' .tiVilrd~e loJ'll! be E'llCOUraRpri '-I' rheStudenl ActiVIt 1M Comm.JIIE'e 10' prerar'\ Ulrl rr(\':rnl IE'Chl'I!Cal pa~I:'S on walet- ~up[Jlv. trralmenl and <I!Siribuliot-, ,11\d ,.,.,ll(>r utthlv nnrogemE\ilt dunn~ the ~t1on s tr<hnrcal programs .\n Jpphcant musl bl\ ol past· Sl.'{\<>nchiV ~tudrmt t>n.nlled .1 ... .a lut I lim\' mat11r-ulaed ~tud~nt 1n a R~rh!'ll)f\S pro~illll .at an accrf'dth•d cD\IItl'!t or unJW~tlv '\the l.'ntti'(l Statpoo \rrhranto; mwl hJt·e- c·,mplelt'd lhe ~Ciphomoll.\ _.,~ar Ac.adio:rmc .JcluE.,.e1r'it>nl t'> a rnar.-r faelo• 1:1 lhe- ~pl'\'(tton procl\SS. however, ti't!!'IP -1rE no ffiiTIII'J'!'\\1111 IS'<JUITPmf'ttl!\ t\pptt>prt.:tt(' 1~e-u~ht 1! ~111m tro .:1 ~tuchmt,. Exlraclln:-tC1!lar a''i~ll:iH such as foHIIC'tj»tiOrt •n \tudeont chapt~rs cl protes§Jon.1l socre-ttU· 1nd 1trrnl!'l<E'r work ~penrf'ln tn the <vHPr ~uprtv l11\Jd ThL' arrhcnnrs cour!;f \';ork trt ai£\3(~Piatt>d to\ career tn the woltll'r !WUfrlv litJd.wdl bt constdcred roi\\'O:!ItC'I<Jt nred wdl bl\ a fa<tor tn ~fi<E'('IIo~ •Jl'llv •n COstS wherl.' Jll olhl't IJC tors .1pr~ar pquJI In no \'\t \h.all Jl,e Jt ... ard rtt combtti~Uon w11h othl\r ~<holo~--nh•p~ or fella\v5hip~ et(t,od Lht' Cl'l<il of •urtt~n. ti!.xlboob, .md olher ~('h.uldo;.trc '\\ .A:pp llcallon Forms Th(' appllcaflon dudhnl' IS Novemh£'r 15. 1992 Apphcallofl lornu .• u~ avc:ulable frMn l)r A/ot~o'\ C foliHU 'lr O'•lt~ ~ ~II Jt .lel RIW' .. , U~ 1..'.'5.1'\port:. FOUII..lOYCompJ<1Y (l..-bn-l•·~~•u•~ ro BLUL lW Pg\\duro .. /.1'1' 1 't<W Tun'\\'\ t.L'f' fll\91- AIII)S:. Naltut toquJpred )OU wilh an Immune s~~lt>m w figfu o:n ir~fectinn and di'ica.;c. The MilS: v1rt1s dot'!in't·ju.;t altack yrmr IJ~~~. II dt'!ilnJ~~ dull immunt' JMIC'm 'u lh:n your hod~ h mof't' Jln:tnelo Un~elop dlseast•s lih• pfteumonifl ·tr canrer CHLAMYDIA: ChlmJdia (M inle<tionoflht urinar_. :act and/or vagina) is thC' mm1 rommnn ~TO fn t s Tltis I~;.IJfcauw illl35 fe\\' or no ~lnptll. ll\ ·\.'a n~'\ult. lr~ po!\SibJ/r I() b\·t tfte disea.\f·for some lime \ilholll knowing lt GEINITAL WARTS (HPVl: Mnre than (JOdifferrnl kintlo: or Grnitai'J.'art.~ an> a'>-~'lt'liltecf \1th lh~ llttm;Jfl Papillmna 'im\ I liP\-) Sinrelhc\ c.·an 111' pa .. sed on ea•il~. =tr~il in ~ml\ ca.qos h;~1·c- ht'l'O linkt•d Itt cnncc~ ofthr np,rod·tJL•!Jve \»\\tent vou ..;bmtld hml' !ll('m moarcd ao:. ~ron a. .. puo;:;lb~e femall.., -.huuJU httvl' )carl~ Vitp le-.;L' HERPES: tlt>rptos i~ a \lru~ '\htch inlt't't~ tlu o;urf~l't' o/ the -~kin 11Cld which can ht' a lhrr'Jt 111 babies bum frum lrtfi'Cit>d mothl.'\ro hllliough ~111111nm\ can hl• lrf.\\.atetl, future ou1hre:1~ can bP e~{P(<Iedat times of $trr~\ SYPHILIS: n,,, di'\'\''.,,arr,~t \'l p•rt•rr<Jnr bod~ mr 'l)ur unhom child l.<'fl untr<'~led. il bC'tllmes a l:;('fiol!s illstoao;-,.indet'C: h~IWt't'n 10 and Ji ~ear,; afll'r the Initial infrction, :.~'!f. r~<faJI !'ufferrrs can dr,·clop par.ll\-s:l~. heart disea.~o;. !iC\'W' lnaincrllJIIag<· .orC\·rnd'e GONORRHEA: l.dt untrt'<ltrd. (Jnnnrrh~J eM ramr '5!t'lill\' in men. pdlir Jnflan1nr~um.iliM\d.'it' In wotmon, and mtfnitls In hoth It can alsn wl~t· in thr lwart. brain, or ~pinal cord. TfiiCHOMONIASIS: TndnmloiiiOL'I'isa c.li~l\'J.-:t'\ \'-'hich ClU!\t\>fnflammatltiR of lilt\ ~'ilAJilfl <\JiboUgil Trirhom:cmJa~is ptimarih affet'L'> \V(lmfm. il c.:.tn also ht f\JrTit't1 antJ \'Jlw.ul h} mr11 = Sv.'OlJcn gland~ In neck, groin or am_!J)lt Night ~wcat~ Unexplained lirrdnl's.o;, anlVflr wlip,hl lm~. Persistent diarrhea GENERAL SYMPTOMS Unusual amount, odor, or color of discharge from penis, v.l@na or rectum. Bunling or pain when urinating. • Burning or itcl1ing aro~ml vagina, tip of p€nis, or rettum. Skin r.tSh or sores on or arouml d1e sex organs or mouih. Swollrr. ~ailr L>. • Pain in lower abdomm. lJROP IN/. W [D) C [LJ rNI ~ (6 MON.~THURS. 5: IS-7:00P.M. £.4 TJN6 0/SOR'JJER ~'lL!PPOR T c7ROLIP he ll't\Ated hutto tlatt> no rurr r•cls\; lor lh• .\IUS ~rlls !Lwll. Alt:\ pre!'cnl time. oncc.AJD.II: is eslabli~btd. itls IOO\\fal:ll Chlamvdia can be cured \~ith :ult.bLotlrs from ~·Our doc1or. .Even thouWl wan.'> can·h~ remm·ed bt cht>mlcal~. CI'}Olflcrar\ <frcer.ingl, <tr fas('r lt't'almt'nl, lhr virus can ~ta~ With 1uu for Ufr Prt·o;cription drugs can creal the blstC'rs, bul llrT')lt\i ranrwl tJe cured In il< l'llfly stag\ ~'yphiUs can be cured v:ilh anli!i•··•ir·· from ~-our doctor lf}ou· tl••·,t· mu are infected. gt•l a h!ood lt\'l inunedlald;· (thls ~X'ing th(' onlv accuralt' \.\it). to di:Jgnose ::lrphills) :'lmttllulic$ u!:uall~· cun· the dl~ea${' If dlagnll$t:d C\.trlv Tridtnmmlia.'\i!o '' c•Jm.l wnh fl .. ,._qrrlptinn drug .. ALCOHOLICS SUPPORT GROUP ]1)1):~ llU.:JJOCTORAL I'ELLOWSJIIPS IN lliOUJ(; IC\ L SCIENCES t.:J/J FEI.IJ)\\ ~JI1Jl\ \'\oil IM• 1\~ lHit•l l••r full 11111 1- •Tllth Ul\\.llll.1 1'111) ,or\'' Jo·~n·•- '\ 1,, •I•..:•< 11\'1. IIlli -~ \1\.lnh .t\•lnrlhl•'L' ••·tr>- \'lhl-\1• n-;.1.,11 1 1• r ._,.,. .tt.bhl'f••rL.ll ·' .,, ·of lull •111'1'1 •!1 tl'llo '\ ,!Jtr• ''' •rd~ !''\''''\'' .111 ~1•1'< ·n,l •>t •I l ''~' •ntl • \'i! -,u 1111111 II • '\'' ••1-t·•lu, :.111<\1 .tllo•l\ 111-11' t•lh o\ ·~uti I'I'L\ . .,.,,. l•l:nu-.11\ '\1> Jllo~'IL ._ ':o\\''lil~IH • ~!I !•1• ,1,,,~, Fo•otl••i'\l~IWII ht• >I••\' l\l•n•u•l••u• 11111Pti>IIOI1li!\ 1'1' lllfl.\''\'ll\ JOH'J C. ROBBINS SCHOLARSHIP FOND Amertc:an !.-Vater Wor! .. s As3oc1aUon :-Jew York State Secti~n 1993 The Sc;holarshrp The SIJ))()dlttl<mtilp E!l ai<To'lrda:lon 1he bi!OU ol ID<ertt- and tlll.r.!(h!r ro Jn mdlVIdUJ\ whct5 uull-ttml!', post·!>«endJry sthqt~l stud.o!nt ll:!nrolted u:1 a prclgram \r ~tudy.~r.al~e-·lll~l~~s:upply _rield \ht~ leads to a ~a(h~~r'i t!eyee .:t.l .rn arOOO··tLU coil~·~ ,,lf ufitlefi~:o/ •n·tbe Unuect.St::.tB. ::,~'!t l~~:'\.u~o ~~~~= tho~ bmetio.;;~l to wn:ff Vlorb .p~rite m ~ew 'fork $t;;JII!' tlS• ~~L?;llle.!IID~ dt\'t~ utilitv Ul.liNJit'711~1or o:T!tUIAitQtJ;.Ir~attoer\1 p!.mt O?Cnm:onl iht ..J.Wollld w1U be. pt~ntl\lflo tf1P rftlpltnt\Jt tl:unnUOll Spnrrg ~etltn~ of t~P 51-'Ct::On Mcc:t'ptance ol llt~ ~ward dots no1 1llth~ale- the .tw-...1tt1c:t to ~Iller tile w.a1er works .1itld .JJ ~ <.~oreer. how~wr :~ouch JCCeptance dcHs- obltg11e the- .&~Idee to J1lit;;trttlv pllmlt h15/her '-'>'ater wotk5 rtl:~.ll'd <OUt1~ olf lfYijy tt\toll~h ltte .\ward teu n.e aW\;Irdt~ w1U ~ etttcuraged bv :1\e ~tu~tl\1 JICGI.Iilt~ I.Ait1-tnlltti!IO prepH~ Jnc1 pr>eSenl ttc:llnJc:tl p:~pen .:.~n w.~1er ~llppiY. ,trtalmt\ttt ~I'Ld dLStMb~llOrl, ~1111 ,..,.tr ulllltY nu\\1.1r;ement dunrt~ tlte- Stctton::! lcdtncal pTO~I'i1m! An ;,.ppllont must be J 'ost· 1econdJrv student tnrcll'!d .\il a futa·ttmt matnotlated· student • In .1 3o~Chl41o~~ proS\'m Jt an Jc:crft:htecl coU~ .:Jt um~enll)' Ill the.t:rntl:'d S!~leS. r\ppL:CiiRtJ mu.11 hlVe rompltt~ the 5ophtori'lcrt vta! M~deri'ifc ~cltibement 1$ .~ iilalot-l~c:m n the sel:Kilo·n pi'OCeS~. ho'w~•er. there all! nG mmunJ.!m requtrem~nu. Approi!JMU wtigbtts gwl!n to a 51:~1dmt's ex_tn~Ur 1CtiVItiH SUCh JS p;IIHC'lp<itrOn Ill !rr:::.ldl!'%1! ch.lptrn ol proteulon;al SOCleltet ~nd lumrner work I!XPCfii!JICI!' in thf wnoer iupply fii!W. Tht applicants couf$.11! w~r); u lrl'~S r~latl!d to~ catter in tht w.o~il!t llll~piv f1odd wtll ~ roMtdned. Fin.JOCQJ netd Will ~ .! f~t:t:Cr 1n ui!lecttcn llnlv 1n Gt5H where .:~11 u(hGt!r facroo ~ppM equaL In no cas:e sholill'thr a-w.ud on t::ombmallon with Olhll!r seholanhipi or Mlow!lhip1 I!K~ thoe CO'!( '\ t111t11m. l~~~:.tbooks, .:~nd other ~hc:lll5cr: '\\ Application Forms The appllca.uar~ <leadlln\l! 1 'lovember 15. IWZ. Appltcauo .. l'tom::ua1't avatlab!e from: t:IY Allltoa!•G (~>II :cnR.,.,.. ...... ~ i:t>Juanl..llllff1\1L\' '<:Lbd.J .... \'Y\1- <!r t;Jlulroo v ':i .. 1 ,1 us \.. •o )4>o_-:- • ..,..,_,....,l'ltWI ASSOC. IN WOMEi~;:S MEDICAL HEALTH FEMALE UN iON C. RAPE SURVIVORS FREE/CONFIDENTIAL GROUP DISCUSSION ~OR PEOP!.F HlfTH Bt/t../111.4, ANf.7RF.)tfA. C01'1PUL ~'>~/ VE EA fiN6 !J/SOIWER 7:J() P./'1 1/RST TLIESOA r·· OF FVERV NONIH 600 FRANKLIN STREET 2ND TUESDAY OF EACH MONTH OF ACADEMIC YEAR PROVIDE GYN SERVICES AT Sl LLI MAN HALL TUESDAYS !for mort 1nfo (t1me, dafe,loc:aholll) CALL 6 1 2 1 YOU DON'T HAVE TO LEAVE \iOU :< N A.M E JU2-5045 RN 5'1.!8 CO! LEt.;£ CFIVlfR C R FA 0 ·1t.i5-955() I i 8:00 P.M. COLLEGE CENTER 409 1 1 : 3 0 - 1 : 00 PM by 11ppointment stop by Qr call 6121 to schedule I ( •

CONCORDIENSIS • SEPTEMBER 24.1992 • PAGE 13 Cl) UJ tr i2 ~ ·~ z 0 >- 1!3 ._: !2 0 Your Real Horosco:pe Aries: .(March 2l-Aprill9) You wiT! continue to be the scape- goat of yaurfrrends ·and fami-ly's problems. However, if you listen carefully, you will be able to ma- nipulate and exploit rhem for vast personal prot:i.t. Taurus: (April 20-May 20) \{our misshapen body offends others. Wear baggy clothing and social- ize ar night. Gemini: (M3y 21-June 21) Look for a more slowly p8ccd day. Your spmal chord will be cleaved :at the medulla. Cancer: (Ju.1 • .: 22-J uly 22) A lung term bum with fhrulcn(e will render Y''u social dis<Jblcd. Fo- cus on yard work. Leo: (July 23-Aug. 22) Any at- tempt you make to voice your opinion will be m.ct with public ridtcule and exco mmunicmion . Virgo: (Aug. ?3-Sept. 22) You wi\1 l-.-: damned straight to hell. Libra: (Sept. 23-0ct. 2J) Your romantic life continues on its typtc.llly d,ull p:!th. Expect to spend the rest of your ltfc com- pletely alan!!. Scorpio: (Oct. 24-Nov. ll) Mat· tersof refrigeration will be of the utmost im portancc. Send a loved one a box of dried apri.cots. Sagittarius: (Nov. 22-Dec. 21) While you slumber, crimmals will steal every itern in your home. inc\udmg your water heater. Capricorn: (Dec. 22-Jan. 19) Brighten J co-worker's dJy. Put on an trnprornptu r•Jppet :,hew in the employee lounge. Aquarius: (J~w. 28-F~b. 18) Saturn wtll comt: u;Jshmg to Earth, pulvcn::tng your huusc. Pisces: (Feb. 19-~L.Jrch 20) Concemrate on career matters. Focus on shelf-stacking, c3sh- registcr operating, and Slurpec· machine cleaning. On the surfoce, Ruby ~'yno2r-lo's column may seem w be rne-re whim- steal spr·culawm It ts, hou:ewr, meant t(; b.: ca.ken as fQJ.: t !-lAVING l'cTALL'{ G'ONE BROKE, Btl.l WA~ .S tNT\ fO {.lEBTDR':.S ·P~tSON. IT WAS A GRAVE MISFO!rTUNf fiiL~S SUHT~!NGS WER.E GREAT. INDE\ED 1-\E LED A MOST WRETCHED ANO Ulll- FoRRJNATE E)(.ISTENC£. ,1-HS IN t=A..CT, BILL WAS, WITH LITTLE DOUBT n.IE Mosr I>EVf\AVE1> AND PERSECUTEJ) OF MEN· Oh, my bo.~y she done left ·' .SUFFE=R.INGS WERE QU liE flOSS I BL\Y GP-.EA~ 11-1 A-N 114E SUM OF Ti-tOSI? OF 1l4E WI-IOL~ OF MANKIN D! Yes, m 1 b().by she done. . yfYfle... o.nd jdt rne.J Md j Lord, yclA knoW I CM'-t j f1 ' ' J;eer rom crym ! · .. l-IC\s anybody .seen \'~ b~l>y? lord j(noW5 r feel lit.e I'm a-dytn''

,. i ., Any senior expecting to be commissionmed this spring in the Alrny, Navy, Air Force, or Marines, call Sean Willman x:4020 Typing: Research papers of all types & sizes. Judy V ilgallen 864-5385. Rd. 1, Box 224 Patternsonville, NY 12137 We've made voting even easier for you. Recieve information on registering and obtaining absentee ballots on the first floor of the college center Wednesday, September 30 between 2:00pm and 8:00pm. To the sisters of SDT: Thanks for having the party with us this past Friday. All of us had a great time. Tile brothers of ZBT. Welcome class()[ 1996. 0r· Fmm Delta Gamma. ::...:.- -- Chantel-- You're almost there! Get Psychedl We love you!! Delta Delta Delta I:LA!iSIFIED!i SPRING BREAK '93- SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO FREE!! Stude11t Travel Services is now hiring campus representatives. Ski packages also available. can 1-800- 648-4849. *CAMPUS REPS WANTED* HEATWAVE VACATIONS SPRING BREAK 1993. THE BEST RATES & THE BIGGEST COMMISSIONS FOR MORE INFORMATION, CALL 800- 395-WAVE .JOB§ Come hear Sheila O'Donnell, class of '81 spea.k on international law. Tuesday, September 29, 8pm at the Career Development Center. Part Time: IBM in Albany seeking sophomore, jllnior, or senior to assist in branch sales (one year commitment) and telemarketing (two year commitment. For more info., see the CDC. ·, · ·· \_ .-Kang.crossword. · . ·. ~.:·. · ACROSS 1 Belgian reson town 4. Pack down tightly 8. Glided 1 c Fall hd11nd 1 .1 Alwav' 14. Flood or spnng l.5 Supped l o :-< oise 0f surf on ::.hnre 1 7. Depend on 18. Stan of a popular riddle ~I \- De·Lovely~ .!~- SalurJte ~). Sta!'!e remark ~6. Bookie's concen1 ~7. Ugly old woman 1-rr--t--+--t-~!85-+-t-r-- 30 ~lake a pte 31. Soft eanh 32. French now list 33. Affinnauve vote 3-l. Hudson or Mobile 35. Charlotte - 36. Beetle ]7- nting, in law 38. Ubiquitous WWII graffiti 45. Mental flash 46 . .Qwn 47. King Louis - 48. Furmture Vioocl 49. Former British colony 50 .. Decorate a crilce :51. Slave of old 52. Depression of Algeria abundantly 53. Half a score 19. Attraction 34. Razz DOWN at a fatr 35. Feel aggrieved. I. Shredded cabbage 20. Witticism 36. Male duck 2. Trodden track 23. Arabian 38. Predatory bird 3. American gannent 39. Certain play\'right 24. Declare Roman days 4. Cylindrical 25. White House 40. Thin 5. Confesses nickname 41. Walk through 26. Purchase water 6. Girl's name 27. Companion 42. Way out 1. Ironed of hers 43. Raised in 8. Sharpen a 28. Cotnmercials a paddy razor 29. Letter 44. Level 9. Reclines 3 I. ~- a little 10. Unemployed lamb\ 1 L Fonner governors 32. Issue . MagicMaze · . .. IN SEARCH OF DAXKEVSQNK FDAX VIQOCTNUHMJHFCA KYWUEAA.EERPNLJH FODBBZSGGGXVTRQ BROWSEA.N NA.OMKI H R F L E M R U A. T E R D B Z PYWVMTFOYRSVOTR T S E U Q 0 A R L 0 N E A F L K RHFDPC PCAVCZ :X w@ E E ~ V S 0 S X U S N S R Q 0 N M K 1 I H L K E F E Fi!ld the listed words in the diagram. They run in all directions-forward, backward, up, dowo and diaJlDIIIllly. Brc\Vlle E>cple>re Fora go Fnsk lnveBtig~o Looate Loi>~ Probe Pry Ou~st Ransaol< Rvmmage CONCORDIENSIS • SEPTEMBER 24. 1992. • PAGE 14 JlltJclisl nightmares. Rubes® By leigh Rubin ~ -L:!LJ. lover's leap for 1hose involved in st1allow relalionships . ·~ U·Ne 1·0~~ N· 'S EEK FRIDAY, Sf:.~T'EMBER 25 12:30 p.m. S&ENWSE 222. Chemistry De- partment Sem.im.r: James Pavlik. Worcester Polytechnic Ir:u;. titute, speaking on \Pho- totransposition Chemistry of Aromatic Compounds ... erllow to Scramble a Ring.\ 3:45p.m HU 1v1. 213. Philosophy Depart- ment colloqui Ulll: Larry Krasnoff, Virginia Polytechnic lm titute. speaking on ''Political Teleology. P01litical Speech: Kant. Habermas and Oakeshot t:' 7 p.m FrankEailey Field. Field hockey vs. Vassar. 8 & 10 p.m College Center aud. Film: \Ba- sic Instinct.\ SA TURDA 1(, ~EPTEMBER 26 Noon. Garis Field. Women's soccer vs. Vas- sar. 1:30 p.m Fru1kEailey Field. Football vs. Hobart. 3:30p.m. Garis Field. Men's soccer vs. Vas- sar. 8 & lO p.m College Center aud. Film: \Ba- sic Instinct.\ SUNDAY, SePTEMBER 27 1 p.m Tennis C()urts. Women's tennis vs. St. Lawrence. 2 p.m Frank Eailey Field. Field hockey vs. William Smith. 3:30p.m Fra~kEailey Field. Jayvee field hockey vs. William Smith. 7:30p.m St. Jt>hll the Evangelist Church. Catholic ma.~s;. 7:30-8:30 p.n (}ld Chapel. Protestant wor- ship service. 8 & 10 p.m. C\0:llege Center aud. Film: \Ba- sic Instinct.'' MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28 6-7 p.m Colleg-e Center 406. Politics and opinions meetiag . TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2B 11:30 a.m -1 fUlL Hale House. Faculty soup and beverage ~1 ub. Noon-1 p.m C()Jl!ege Center 205. Diet workshop. 8 p.m. Hale H<lus.e. Philomathean society. WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30 8 a.m.-4 p.m. Schaffer Library. Exhibit of the;: Sogetsu school of floral arrangement sponsored by the Capital District Sogetm Study Group. 10 a.m.-2 p.m College Center atrium. Marine Corps recruiting. 3:30p.m Garis Field. Men's soc.cer vs. Middlebury. 7 p.m Garis Field. Women's soccer vs. Skidmore. 7:30 p.rn. College Center 406. Spanish c luh. THURSOA Y, OC\FOBER 1 Noon-4 p.m Memorial Field House. Career festival. 9 p.m. Memorial Chapel. Jazz ensemble. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2 10 a.m. -2 p.m College Center atrium. Marine Corps recruiting. 12:30 p.m. S&E NWSE 222. Chemistry Department Seminar: Steven Carr '76. SmithKline Beecham PharmAceuticals. speaking on \The Ongoing Revolution in Mass Spectrometry and Its Impact on Structural Biology.\ 7 p.m. College Center409. Intervarsity meeting. 8 & 10 p.m. SS 016. Film: \White Men Can't Jump.'' SATURDAY, OCTOBER 3 2 p.m. Frank Bailey Field. Freid hockey Ys. Manhattanville. 8 & 10 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \White Men Can't Jump ... SUNDAY, OCTOBER 4 7:30p.m. St. John the Evangelist Churc[l, Catholic mass. 7:30-8:30 p.m Old Chapel. Protestant worship service. 8 & 10 p.m. College Center aud. Film: \White Men Can't Jump.'' I 0 - - \ f I r \ 1 t

CONCORDIENSIS • SEPTEMBER 24, 1992 • PAGE 15 Rugby Opener by Pete deBoer Staff Writer Last Saturday Hie ·Union Ruggers hosted the infamous ruggers of Albany State. The Rugby Gods were srniling in full force as they graced West Beach with weather· beyond expectations. Unforttmately, the storm set in wheil Albany arrived three hours before scheduled game time and heckled a bewildered Rob \Puppy\ Du Puy, while \The Hawk\ took to the air to further badger Captain Chet \Cheetah\ Urban in his cozy nest. Mter much effort the e:xbausted Union Ruggers who had practiced to all ho1.ll's of the morning, namely Mike \Smurf II\ Alter and Chris \Beers\ Sears, slowly filed @nto the field to face the opposition. A practical game time was set at 2:00 p.m. as Skip \'Chicken Legs\ Aycox substit11ted for the referee. Union looked stellar in their new jerseys as this young team of 14 players took to the pitch. Our fifteenth player, Dave \Brother of Kiki\ Davenport, decided to make a cas11ally late entrance as he strolled onto the field at 1:58 p.m. and relieved a trembling rookie from the starting position. It was now game time as the two teams stared each other down, waiting to open the season. The fans were plentiful, the teams were set and tile Rugby Gods saw that it was good. They smiled and the long- awaited clash began. Union hit hard and stunned Albany with a successful penalty kick midway through the 1st half. Andy .. Golden Boy\ Frisbee, when asked how he made this 40-meter kick, replied, \The molecular structure of the ball and a simple calculation of the JETS, GIANTS Continued from page 20 ot the 3rd quarter. Rodney Hampton, the Giants' bright point of the season, alld J errod Bunch ran roughshod through the once formidable Bears defense, and Simms (:ompleted pass after pass, I:Jitting 6 different receivers over the course of the game. With plenty of protection from his offensive line (a rarity this season) Simms effortlessly moved the team downfield, as the Giants picked up their first win of the season and their first in Chicago in 30 years. Alhough the Giants have started slowly, they have shown promise. The offense has had the ball ,inside their opponents' 20-yard line 11 times, and have scored every ·dens1ty m the air allowed me to ~stimate the relative proximity md force needed to reach the uprights. Thanks to my Union ~ducation and outstanding academic achievements I was able to contribute to the team.\ Unfortunately, Union could not convert any more p<)ints as the first half ended with a score of Albany 5 -Union 3. The second half proved to be just as hard-hitting and grueling as the first. The serum battled it out for another grueling 40 minutes as punches were thrown and heads were stepped on. Rookie Jon \Hungry Man\ Shapiro apparently missed breakfast, but managed to pick out a tasty snack in the serum from a Albany rugger's leg. At the final whistle the scoreboard registered Albany 17 - Union 3. Obviously a more experienced Albany had the upper hand against this young Union team, 7 of whose 15 players are rookies; but with their feet wet and a hard week's practice, Union held their heads high and prepared for a match of a different sort following the Killer B 's extraordinary debut. Union Rug'gers are currently preparing for this Sunday's home match vs. Colgate at 1:00 p.m. It seems some more late night practices are in order to help these rookies adjust to tbe game of Rugby. Anyone still interested in playing can come join practice at 4:00 p.m. by the flagpole. Rugby Schedule 9/27 Union vs. Colgate Home 10/3 Union vs. Syracuse Away 10/10 Union vs. Siena Away 10/17 Union vs. R.P.I. Home time (9 TDs, 2 FGS). Moreover, a 1-2 record is not that terrible, given the quality of their opponents, and considering that their next four games are against the Raiders, Phoenix, the Rams, and the . Seahawks,who are a combined 2-10, .the Giants have ample opportunity to improve. The Giants have a bye next week to reflect on their win and on what they must do to make the playoffs, since they play in the toughest division of the more talented NFC. Though a win over Chicago is not as impressive as it once was, the Giants seem to have transfonned themselves from a team that gave up the most points through two weeks to an aging but courageous team which still has some fight left in it. WRITE FOR SPORTS Young But Strong Courtesy of Sports ltifomUJtion The women\s field hockey team at Union College shows just one senior ()O this year's roster. Despite the youth of her team, head coach Charlyn Robert does n<>t consider 1992 a rebuilding season. In fact, she is very excited. about this year's club's .chances of breaking the barrier that has kept the Dutchwomen near the .500 mark for tile last three years. Since posting a 17-1 mark and winning the ECAC championship in 1988, the Dutchwomen fillished 6-7-2 in both '89 and '90 before ending with a 7-8-1 mark last year. Union has been to the New York State post-season tournament six. of the last seven seasons, missing a bid in 1990. £gphomore Jen Vernon will andt()r Union's defense from ge~L Last year she posted a 6- 7 ·I record with 103 saves, 28 goals allowed, and three shuoouts. According to Robert, Vemon is way ahead of where sll~ was at this point last season. Vernon will have the most exJJerienced part of the team right in front of her as three of the: four backfield defenders are retUining starters. Junior tri- caiJtain Mindy Kessler will swing between the back and mi<lfield positions. Junior tri- captain Wendy Miller returns to her starting spot while oopll()more Molly Pearsall saw time: as a starter late last season. Sophomore Wendy I>faffenbach moves into a starting role after playing juni<Jr varsity hockey as a freshman. Football Update by Dagan La Corte Staff Writer Coming off a big 41-14 win over St. Lamence in the opening game of the season, the Dutchmen traveled to Worcester, M!ssacilusetts to play the WPI Engineers on Saturday. The Engineers routed Worceste1 State 56-0 in their opener, so a tough game was anticipated. The game started off with a quick drive by the Engineers, wllich led to an unsuccessflll43-yard field goal attempt by WPI's Eric Harvey. On tile following possession, Union's captain,. fullback David Flynn, carried the ball 54 yards, and put Union in excellent scoring position. Two plays later~ Quarterback Brian Harris connected with wide receiver Gene Ray to p-utthe Dutchme11 ahead 6-0. WPI kept pres suring, and two possessions later they were able to break through Union's defense and talea 7-6lead. The first quarter was highlighted by explosive offenses by both the Dutchmen and the Engineers, but the following quarter saw a shift towards the defensive game. The Engineers threatened late in the second quarter, but their offense was tbwarted on a great hit by Union linebacker Craig Mosia. 1'he Engineers tried to kick ll 50-yard field goal, but it went wide. The Dutchmen went into the locker room down 7-6, but that didn\t last for long. With 9:14 left in the third quarter. Dutcbman tailback Chad La Bo111e ran back a pllnt for a 33-yard gain. and set tile stage for Brian Harris's t<Juchdown pass to wide receiver Dave Sodergren. On tbe next play Union tried for tlle two-point conversion. The play initially looked like it was going to be unsuccessful, but Quarterback Brian Harris was al>le to run the ball in himself a11d get the two points, for a 14-7 lead. Later in the quarter tile Engineers were threatening t<> score with first and goal on Ulli<>n's three yard line, but the Dutchmen put on a defensive stand. Defensive back Ross Eterbart put great pressure on WPI\s quarterback Ronald Saba.telli. Linebackers Craig M()sia and Marco Lainez put up a defensive wall, and WPI hacl to settle for a field goal. Union then got a lucky bie<tk, when a WPI touchdown was called back as a result of a clipping penalty. Union's luck didn't hold, and la.te in the third quarter WPI scored a to11chdown and took a 17-14 lea{!. The Dutchmen ended the quarter down, but started the foulth quarter off very quickly. Brian Harris made a !}eautiful 39-yard touchdown pass to Gene Ray, and Union toolc a 20-17 lead. From that point on the Dutchmen co.ntrolled the game. Harris co11nected with Ray once more, anrl ran a touchdown in on a Quarterback sneak. to make the fmal score 34-20. Harris threw f<>r 232 yards, and Gene Ray caught three touchdown p~ses. The Dutchmen's record for this season is now 2-0, and tlley've extended their regular seasoll winning steak to eighteen games. Senior tri-captain Cory Logan has been a starter the last two seasons as a midfielder, while sophomore Missy Lombardoni broke into the starting line-up as a rookie. Sophomore Tammy Wood was a letter-winner two years ago as a freshman. Union's attack will feature a brand new trio. Freshmen Lorene Kaminski and Michelle McCarte will 'be on the wings with sophomore Susan Halliday in the middle. Halliday played for the jayvee team last year. \This year's schedule isn't any easier than in the past,\ Robert says, \but it's more balanced. We don't have the most difficult part of the schedule in one big lump. Those games are spread throughout the year.\ N. Y. TEAMS REBUILD Continued fewer U.S. casualties in the Vietnam War than there were on the 1992 Metropolitans. What happened to the season they were supposed to have'! With names like Gooden, :Cone, Fernandez, Bonilla. . Coleman, and Randolph, the Mets seemed to be a team with :direction back in April. ;However, the only direction ;which they seemed to be :familiar with is south. Who , would have thought the 1992 Mets would be 20.5 games out of first place with only 12 games left in the season? Discussing the Met's woes would take up this entire paper, so instead let's discuss their bright spots. Ssssid; it's it and that's that. Sid Fernandez continues to pitch effectively. This past Sunday, he played the role of spoiler by all-but- eliminating the Expos' hopes for any post-season activity ·with a S-hit shutout. 1-0. : Now what? What else can be . said about the Mets? Can they ; even look forward to the ! immediate future for revitalization? They have some of the most overpaid players in baseball, and they do I not have nearly as much talent in their minor league affiliations as do the Yankees. • David Cone is now pitching in Toronto, Willie Randolph will most likely hang up his uniform at the end of the season, and the rest of the team : will need several months before they are able to walk again. For the Mets, it's going to be a long winter. Only time will tell for this struggLing baUclub. Right now, however. the best medicine for Mets fans and players alike is to turn on the television Sunday afternoons and Monday evenings, because. in the · immortal words of Hank Williams, Jr., \Are you ready for some football?!!\

<!rnnfllrbirttsis SEPTEMBER 24, 1992 Jets~ Start iants Hal Pe~ret Assoc. Sports Editor Maybe a 1-2 start is no surprise for 311 aging Giants team that opened the season against tlue-e superbowl contenders, San Francisco, Dallas and Chicago, but what about the 0-3 record of the up- and-coming yoang Jets? After gaining a wild-card berth in last year's pbyoffs with a gutsy win in Miaroi in the last week of the season, the Jets came into this season with very high hopes. After offeri11g quarterback Ken O'Brien ru1 insultingly low salary, thus forcing him to hold out from training camp, Jets management handed over the reigns to second-year QB Browning Nagle. Nagle, who led Louisville's football Cardinals to an impressive bowl win over Alabama in 1990, helped tile Jets to a 5-0 preseason record, and gave them great hope for a winning season. Behind Nagle, the Jets feature an impressive running attack of Freeman McNeil, Blair Thomas and Brad Baxter, as well as a highly talented receiving group of AI Toon, Rob Moore, Chris Burkett, Terance Matllis, and #l draft pick Johnny Mitchell at tight end. Along with a fired-up defense led by safety Erik McMillan and defensive end Jeff Lagemall. coach Bruce Coslett had tile right to a very bright outlook. Though tbe Jets opened their season by los.ing 20-17 to the Falcons ill Atlanta's new Georgia Dome, their toughest obstacle was neither the dome, nor the Falcons, but the officiating. N.a~le looked very impressive~ completing 21 of 37 passes for 366 yards and 2 touchdowns, but unfortunately the Jets fen behind early 17-0. Seven of these .voints came after the offidals incorrectly awarded the ball to Atlanta when Nagle fumbled the snap on the Jets' first play from scrimmage. L11ter in the game, down 20-17, the Jets recovered a fumble by Falcon kick- returner Erric Pegram on the Falcon 1-yard line, but the officials incorrectly ruled that Pegram was already down, thus depriving the Jets of an easy scoring opportunity which could have tied the game or given them the lead. Unfortunately, this game, which could be entitled \Exhibit #l in support of bringing back the instant replay rule,\ has been the highlight of the Jets season. In week 2, Pittsburgh's Barry Forster ran rampant through the Jet defense for an incredible 190 yards as the Steelers (en route to a surprising 3-0 start) humbled the Jets 20-10, while also injuring the index finger on Nagle's throwing hand. Finally, with O'Brien back at QB for week 3, Coach Bruce Coslett made a major mistake by guaranteeing a victory over the San Francisco 49ers. The Jets did manage to put up 14 points in the 4th quarter, but this was after they watched helplessly as the 'Niller defense sacked O'Brien four times, and as QB Steve Young passed and scrambled his way through their defense to build a 31-0 lead. Not that there is any shame in losing to the niners, who are strong Superbowl contenders, but Jet fans are certainly looking forward to Nagle's return this weekend. Fortunately, the Jets have yet to reap the benefits of their weak AFC East schedule, and play their next three games against the L.A. Rams. the Pats, and Colts, who are a combined l-7 through week 3. On the other hand, the Giants may have more to worry about than a 1-2 record. Though they were home for weeks 1 and 2, few people actually expected them to beat the 49ers or Cowboys, both serious NFC powers. An aging defense, a full- blown quarterback controversy, and a general dissatisfaction with Coach Ray Handley (at least from the media and fans) had the Giants mired in a lethargic rut. Former defensive stars Lawrence Taylor. Everson Walls, Leonard Marshall and Carl Banks average 32 years of age. Taylor, once the most feared defensive player in the game, can no longer dominate a game, and the rest of the Giant defense has exhibited shoddy tackling and a general lack of intensity (until the second half in Chicago). As a result, in week 1 alone, they gave up 5()0 total yards, including an appalling 172 on tile gromtd, ~ well as 31 points to the '\Niners. The 49er offensive line gave QBs Steve Young atld S:teve Bono all day to throw, and the 49ers made 27 first downs. punting only twice all game. A week later the Giaat defense was torn apart by tae Cowboys and running bac:k Emmit Smith, who danced his way through the blue jerseys, slipping out of tackle af~r tackle. Before they knew w1tat llit them they were down 34-0, and only when the Cowboy defense decided to sit on their lead were the Giants able to ma:ke a game out of it before succumbing 34-28. On the otller side of the ball there are also problems. First of all, Coach Ray Handley clearly lacks the motivational skills and tile decisiveness on the quarterback issue to provide tile Giants with the confide11ce .and identity they need to win. The Giants are clearly ·lacking the emotional intensity and ferociousness which Bill Parcells was able to instill ill tllem. And despite the constant cllants of \Ray must go!\ Owner George Young stubbornly insists that Handley's job is not on the line. This is not an atmosphere conducive to a successful season. Haadley has also been critici~ed about his inconsistency with the starting quarterbacks, but Handley has an unenvi11ble task on this point. Pltil Simms has always , been Mr. True Blue Giant leader, and has been a consistent passer over the years. but witll the streams of pass-ru~hers pouring through the Giant offensive line, you cannot b l11me Handley for wantinll the scrambling ability which Hosteteler gives them. Nevertheless, it has not been all dow11hill. Since being down 34-0 to Dallas, the Giant offense bas kicked it into high gear. The Giants scored touchdow11s on 4 straight possessions against Dallas, falling just short of the largest comeb~tck in NFL history. Then ()fi Monday night in Chicago, the Giants started slowly, but Simms and the rest of the offe11se exploded, giving the Giants their first lead of the season (21-14) on a 13-yard pass to Stephen Baker at 9::\4 Continued on page l9 New York Teams Looking to Rebuild by Rich Morgan Assoc. Sports Editor The date was sometime in mid-April. Baseball was just underway, and the Yankees began the season witll six wins in a row-their best start in ()Ver sixty years. They were in r1rst place, one game ahead of the Blue Jays atop the American League East. Mmmm . . • funny what a difference a few months can make, isn't it? Now, as the season comes to a quiet close due to the lack of any major threat to any of the first place teams (with the exception of Milwaukee, whose recent surge has put them back in the race, only 4 games behind Toronto - but Toronto has been winning~ as well), and with the Yankees andMets a combined 38 games out of first place, about the most exciting thing about New York baseball is those hot delicious pretzels during the late afternoon games ... Tb.ese days, I believe that finding a matching pair of socks in one of those large bins at K-Mart is more stimulating than flipping on the TV to WPIX or WOR (or MSG or Sportschanne1). Now, as the Yankees llave had to do for tile last 8 seasons in September, they must look toward next season. Witll the expanded rosters earlier this month, the Yankees are giving their younger talent a closer look in the big leagues. With their pitching staff being a mere heartbeat away from cardiac arrest, the move was made to bring up rookie Sam Militello, who was able tc breathe some life int<> the Yankees pitching staff (not to mention some excitement into the fans). This move was then followed by inserting t:ookie- Bob Wickman into the rotation, who has also helped revitalize the withering Yankee team. Both have had some difficulties adj11sting, but have continued to impress the com.vetition, as well as the Yankees front office. Wickman is now 4-l with 2.67 ERA, while Militello is 3-2 with a 3.52 ERA. Not bad for a couple of rookies. Pitching aside, the Yankees are also getting a closer look at two rising ]>mspects from AAA Columbus. Gerald Williams (net to be confused with Bernie Williams), whose speed and other talents are much needed to strengthen the 'Yankee defellse has been inserted int() right field. Offensively, he has been hot with the bat, hitting around .400 since being called up earlier this month. Finally, J.T. Snow, a class AA rookie who had beett tearing up the minor league, was just called up this past week. Thing are definitely looking up for the Yankees. Their rookie talents, along with the team's \regular\ players, tend to give the team something to look forward to next year. In addition to Mulido Perez and the rookie pitching, there is also the real possibility tllat. the ¥ ankees could acquire David Cone, the ex-Met who will become a free agent at the conclusion of the season. Yu.v. the future sure is looking bright for the Bronx Bombers in 1993. As for the team across the bay, one word can sum up their season - injwies, injuries, and injmies (Oh, did I happen to mention inj01ies?). The Mets, in short, started off the season on the wrong foot and have been hobbling ever since. I honestly believe there were Continued on pag,e 19 UJRITE FOR .SPORTS

