. I I , I , I 'I' , I• 1 I t l l ! i' • ' Founded :at Uniom, College 1877 Volume 122, Number 17 Schenecta~y, NY April 1, 1993 CONCORDIENSIS WINS NATIONAL AWARDS by Slee,p A 'lot Resident Masochist Despite much administration and student support, Concordiensis won some of the most prestigious awards given out to college newspapers at the 15th annual College Media Convention held in New York City from March 17 to March 20. While editors and staffers were busy taking their final exams, Concordiensis won a Gold Circle Award for being the best weekly newspaper for schools with enrollment of 3000 or less. . Although neither former editor-in-chief Edward Walley nor David Levine~ the current editor, were present at the awards ceremony on March 18, · they were both available for comments over the phone. \We certainly -were not expecting to win an award as prestigious as the Gold Circle Award, but we have worked so hard at improving the newspaper that receivipg this award has certainly made all the hard work pay off', said Mr. Walley. Mr. Levine .stated, \I think this is a tribute to the hard work and dedication of the Concordiensis staff, and I am so p,roud to work with a group of people that have been able to persevere despite the fact that the administration's lack of support has stunted the .Jtewspaper's growth.\ Levine added, \Maybe students will begin to take the newspaper seriously, and contribute to this award winning publication.\ The newspaper was cited for \outstanding copy editing. innovative layout. well written articles, excellent sports interviewing, and great according to Ron Johnson of CMA. David Levine's investigative an award for Outsta11ding Off- report entitled \Academic campus news article .. Honesty - At U11ion?\ was Dagan LaCorte was awarded judged to be the best the Dick Vitale award for investigative work for any excellent coverage offue Union college newspaper and Matt College Skating Dutchmen. Karlyn's insightful article LaCorte was cite<l.fo1 excellent abo 11 t recycling was given an interviews with Bruce award for excellent research. Delventhal and Union hockey Lara Chamberlain's article players. CMA members were about the effort made by Union especially impres:sed with how smdents to rebuild Homestead LaCorte was able to solicit in- after Hurricane Andrew received _ depth interviews with Goalies Luigi Villa and !Mike Gallant Uncle Bart Dngtell · Concordiel'tsis: Staff The Federal Communications Commition, assis.ted by the FBI, arrested former Concordiensis personality Do>t1glas \Uncle Edna\ Bartell on Saturday after Bartell reportedly ignored seven federal subpoen;JS. The arrest wa:; made in Ft. Lauderdale Fl()rida, where the sarcastic columnist was spending his spring break. His one million dollar bail was paid by close friend and former television playboy Phi Hip Michael Th<Omas, with wbcm 'Edna' wa~ staying when the arrest occurned. 'Edna' has since returned to, scilool, where he awaits arraign ment 'Edna' had ap•Jlarently been notified early i ~ his writing career that the FCC considered some of hfi.s material ·~extremely offe11sive\ and was advised to either alter his style or be subject to flne's and/or sus}lensions. 'Eana\ apparently ig!lored the war.ning and co11tinued to deliver his kinky an!l candid quips:, resulting in following two consecutive shut-out losses suffered by Union. Bruno Benzaquen was given the Albert Einstein award for scientific writing. According to the Surgeon General, who spoke at the convention, Mr. Benzaquen \produced extremely original articles that were read .seriously by members of the medical community.\ Layout Editors Lisa .Lemoi and Buffy Rubenstein were Photo by Inspector Scmff commended by the CMA ··ror laying out a newspaper with the minimum of non-straight columns , considering the lack of oomputer equipment\ In total, Concordiensis won 14 awards, taking 6 more than the Harvard Crimson, w!Iicb finished second with 8 awards. This is the first time since 1947 that Concordiensis has won a major national awar<l. Edna Arrested the first subpoena, which was issued Sept. 18, 1992. Arresting detective Ugot Tubekidden said, \He didn't put up much of a fight, really. He just pulled down his bloomers and mooned us as we stormed the house. He kept on asking why we were wasting our time on a college student with an innocent affection for his feminine side while religious zealots in an overarmed convent continue to hold children hostage. I told him I wasn't sure. but I'd go home and discuss it with my boss over a nice box of doughnuts.\ VVhen'Edna'finallysmfaced from the Ft. Lauderdale police station, he was mobbed by reporters who repeatedly asked him why he had continued to write his column under such obvious danger. The only answer that was deliver by 'Edna' epitomized his very charactor. \Union College needed a sense of humor, and until they found one I wanted to write my column.\ 'Edna' said, \It was my duty and my 7th amendment right- or was it my 3rd amendment right- maybe it was 2nd amendment right- anyhow, I know I had the right to write. Apparently. now I also have the right to remain silent.\ The FCC pressure has been rumored to be one of the reasons that Uncle Edna CJ.U it in the last winter issue of Concordiensis. The arrest also raised the question of who exactly knew about the FCC threats and why was nothing done. Former Concordiensis Editor Ned Walley was unavailable for comment as was Current Editor I>avid Levine. Features Editor Erin M. O'Neil was contacted but had little to say except, \Wow arrested. Can I have his salary?\ A senate subcommittee is being arranged to discuss the pros and cons of forming a committee to look into this \Ednagate\ scandal, a step which should probably get to the oouom of these unanswered questions.

April 1, 1993, page 2 NEWS ill.tllt.Cllf :Ui.Clt.S i.s ·I Nott Anymore! Silliman Surprises . All: Common Cold Cure Caroline Paine News Editor The class of 1993 will be the last class to graduate Union against the back dr<Jp of the Nott Memorial. The building is scheduled for demolition immediately following graduation this June. This project ·is sponsored by the Bicentenn.ial Steering Committee in order to create a more modem campus. The Nott Memorial was constructed in the late eighteen hundreds as a tribtJte to Union's former president, Eliphalet Nott. Since then, the Nott has served a& a museum, a library and presently as home to the Mountebanks theater group., In the land mark's place.· .an outdoor Olympic size<! swimming pool and refreshment stand are scheduled to be constructed to off set the West 'Beach' area. \We are trying to change the college's image,\ says Byran Nichols, head of 1he Bicentennial Steering Committee. \The Nott served its purpose as Union's symbol for a long time but now it is time for a change.\ Security Report DATE LOCATION Nichols claimed that the building was eut dated in style and architecture. This portraies a \drab and overly studious\ image for the college. \The pool would symbolize a more modern outlook to our college community, as well as demonstrating to the collegiate world that Union knows how to have fun as well as compete academically.\ Nichols Stated. Construction of the pool and refreshment stand is scheduled to begin in late July of 1993 and is to be completed by spring term of 1994. As a result new courses, such as 'Underwater Fire Fighting 110 and Advan~ed Water Ballet ~00, . .are to .b.e .. aoded .to the curriculum and taught by John Miller of the arts department and swim coacb Susan Bassett. \Through the compilatioD of the pool, West 'Beach' will finally be appropriate for its name and the Bicentennial class of 1995 will graduate from a really 'mod' school.\ Nichols stated proudly. INCIDENT By Alexis Leist Conconliensis Staff I always find it so comforting that Silliman Hall is there for all of Union's health needs. I remember when I had the flu and they gave me Suda.fed (you know, in those littl~ plastic bags) and generic Robitussin (you know, the kind that is dark red and tastes like, well. we all know what it tastes like). Neither of them helped. I was advised to take aspirin also, which: didn't work either. And h1:tndreds of other students are faced with the same problems every day. But, everyone take heart, because recemtly a mixture of Sudafed. generic Robitussin, and Tylenol has been found to CURE THE COMMON COLD! Yes, as unbelievable as it may seem, (and to me it seems pretty unbelievable) the The Huvard Medical Journal lias declared Silliman's Sudafed, cough medicine, and endless supply of Tylenol (ofcourse they had none left when I went) a sure way of beating the cold, one of the leading causes of death in our country. Bow was this accomplished one might ask (and aslt over--and' over again)? Well, a thousand porcupines, found in the Schenectady area, were injected with deadly cold viruses. After two years, the symptoms be~an to occur and the porcupi11es were given daily and weekly treatments of every kind of medication known to mao. Now, these researchers decided to experiment widely (and oh boy. did . they. experimen~). 3/22/93 West College Inedible food found on trays Incompatible freshman roommate brawl Oulrageous. meal-plan price discovered Dean Alford found doing n<>thing 3/22/93 Richmand 3/22/93 College Center 3/23/93 College Center 3/23/93 Davidson 3/23/93 C.C. bathroom 3/23/93 Fox 3/24/93 West 3/24/93 Richmond 3/24/93 Silliman 3/25/93 Fox 3/25/93 College Center 3/26/93 Davidson 3/26/93 West 3/27/93 Nott field 3/28/93 UppeJClass Crack house uncovered Officers found smoking COJlfiscated crack Toilet seat left up in girls bathroom. Ugly stranger found in bed after goggles · had cleared P.M.S. outbreak, reinforcements needed Quack doctors discovered Security gaurd fell asleep Dutch Hollow line grew }()ngcr than a Russian breads queu. 3rd floor cocktail party gets ugly Man found cheating on his girlfriend Naked Nott run halted. Oflendcrs sent to 'penil' court. \Hello. Thank You.\ man said \Hi. How are you.\- ~tudents fainted. Graduation Posponed Until September Information to of '93 F,ollow At last, they carne to the magic combination: three plastic bags of Sudafed, Five bottles of generic Robitussin and twenty Tylenol. All .together, tile medications in each combine to create some sort of internal guerilla warfare on the deadly cold viruses~ And the results the porcupines experienced were amazing·! After the first week of treatment the porcupines were a thousand times better. Most of their symptoms disappeared and they displayed an amazing amount of energy (Schenectady now has about three thousand more porcupines running around). It seems as if their sex drive had increased ten-fold. After the second week of treatment some of.their spikes started to disappea~ (unfortunately disadvantageous to them, but a bonus to us in case we ever run across any). Towards the end of treatment they started to make strange noises to one another and scientists now believe they are predicting the future and the end of the world. These rnumblings have been recorded and sent all over' the world to top . - -researea labs:· Nevertheless, tbe. ·porcupines se~m happy and healthy. and some are even seen around campus. and at parties drinking and dancing (it seems that some students have no trouble understanding or responding to the bizarre mumblings). Recently I had the cbance to interview one of these porcupines (with the help of a translator) and he declares that \I have never felt better, or more attractive, if this is what Silliman can do for the porcupine population, imagine what it can do for the world!. Another pmcupine declared \Silliman is the best thing to have happened to me since spiked hair came into style, I love the mbcture of Sudafed, cough medicine. and Tylenol, and who knows what other diseases it can cure! 11 The head of Medical Research at Harvard University said, in a press conference, that she is not surprised by Silliman's discovery because all the students at Union are always extremely healthy. She praised Silliman highly and plans to call the cure (aU three will be mixed into one pill) Sillinian (what else?). So, what else is in store for Silliman these days? Well, I've ch~cked in there several times, and it seems they're so bqsy looking for other cures for other diseases that they don't even have time to take care of students. Can you imagine that? One porcupine said to me \It's a good thing · it is spring II. I agree. They are aiming· to be the first to find a cure for AIDS. I don't know Silliman, maybe a Sudafed, Tylenol, condom pill? Just a thought. * * * * * * •. Is Schach Dead? See page 8! Dutch Pizza Pizazz Douglas W. Bartell Concordiensis Staff The Dutch Hollow Restaurant was the big winner in last week's Capital District pizza cook-off held a.t Latha::ill Circle Mall. First prize awards given to Dt1tch Holl~w included \Best 8-cut cheese\ . ,. \Best Combination\ and \Most unpredictable slice size and texture\. Dutcb took home second place in the ·\Best peperoni'' ·and \Best dougll twirling\ categories and earned honorable mention in the \Canned sauce that doesn't taste like it was from a can\ and \greasiest mozzerella\ competitions. Overall, Dutch recieved more awards th:an any other pizza establishment in the area, a feat not unnoticed by Dining Service Head Janet Grey. \Stupendous performancer\ Grey announced, ''I'm so proud of Dutch: I could almost cry.\ Richard Gorgen, Manager Gf the Hollow~ was a little less enthusiastic. \Great. Now I'n probably have to give my employees a raise.\ said Gorge11, \Thats all I need.\ The Hollow took home seven awards. Dominos placed next with four followed by Pizza Hut with three. The following is a synopsis of the categories that the, Dutch Hollow placed in. Best Cheese 8-cut Dutch Hollow PapaCiccos Pizza Hut Best peperoni Dominos Dutch Hollow Golds tar Most Unpredictable Dutch Hollow Gino's Pizza Baron Best Combination Dutch Hollow Dominos Oepetto's Best Twirling Pizzeria Uno Dutch Hollow Dominos I 1

I 1 ill.tilU:JJr:hittt.Sis NEWS ANALYSIS Aprill, 1993, page 3 Union Gets a Taste of Horror at its Best by Veroniea Rogers News Analysis Editor Union College will have the ~honor of hosting the welil known horror-fiction author Stephen King next fall as he will take a position as guest/visiting professor for the fall term. Union got in touch with King through his publisher, Viking Publishing. King's most recent books. including additions in the Dark Tower series, and the book Dolores Claiborne have capped off yet another spurt of successful novels. King's readers are growing more and more every year as his novels with their huge fright inducing capabilities continuously remain .popular. Mr. King will be spending tlie fall term here teaching two English courses. One called \Horror-Fiction: A Writers ·Guide to Macabre\ and \Hobby Writing\. or \How to write for no other purpose except for entertainment\ .. King's classes will not only be filled with readings of his own novels, but rather a collaboration of horror novels that have passed through generations of h.orror fans. .His classes will take a different approach to writing, King will not teach in standard lecture form or with the purpose of teaching \proper English\ but rather he will explore different environments in which to inspire the creativity that horror-fiction requires. Location sights for some class- lectures have been pre-designated to include the Ellis Hospital morgue, and the Gleason Funeral home on -Union St. (across from Davidson). How did Union acquire such a famous name? As President Hull stated in an exclusive interview, \if Union can fix up the Nott memorial, build a new library and theater, renovate Fero House, create a Validine system, and provide many social alternatives then we can do anything\. he also added that \we can use the excess money that we obtain from ch!ll'ging the students high amo11nts to attend this prestigious institution, and thell pour_ it into another one of our worthwhile endeavors, You know it is the 90;s and we are changing and growin.g-bringing old innovations into future actions. As our look will ,continue to change and impro-ve, so will our curriculum too, integratimg the traditions of our alma mater. with what lies ahead. Will it be hard to get into King's classes? Yes, it definitely will be. Prospective students will not only have to sign up as though it was a card course, but upon the receiving of a card each student desiring a space in the class must write a personal essay to Mr. King entitled \Why I want to be like Stephen King\ so Mr. King can himself pick tile proper candidates for his rnore than unusual classes. Don't miss the opportunity to engage in a once in a lifetime JlUrsuit of the morbid and surreal. BUSINESS Union Shoots for Total Cost of 50,000 by ··97 during the week and none on weekends, while at the same by Dylan J. Ratigan Busine-ss Editor In a recent press conference, the president of Union College. Mr. Roger H. Hull stated that he has created .. a. committee whose sole purpose will be to achieve the previously stated goal of bringing the total cost of a year spent at the school into the neighborhood of 50,000 dollars by the beginning pf the 1997 school year. - There have been varions proposals as to where the., money will come from. The most obvious will be a tuition hike to approximately $35,000 per year. Tuition increases will be implemented on an annual basis, with yearly increases of $7500 dollars adjusted for inflation. All full ~me students will be forced to live on campus, including seniors at a cost that will be approximately one and a half to two and a half times the current rates. The exception to this of course, will. be in the case of the very lucky few who obtain a room in the most luxurious of all the on campus dorms - those who are the envy of all those with whom they come into contact - the select few who receive accommodations fit only for a king. the bright, young, the proud ... those who live in Raymond. H~wever, all part time college students, of which there are approximately ten each year will be asked to pay a luxury surchar-ge ih the amount.of$~500. · Additjonal funds will be raised by serving only one meal a day in the dining halls time requiring all full time students to purchase an aanual meal plan at tlie flat rat~ of $6700; 'There 'iiis_ ~fin _s.o.iJli: jjjlt as ... welT' of'lmptefuentillg -s<>me sort of toll system on all college owned bathroom facilities. The students will be able to use their meal' card at the door of any given facility, and the charge wuul<l be around $.75 per trip. President Hull stated that he believed that this system while increasing revenues for the college, would also enco11rnge a more efficient use of our plane~ ~mited resources. Again Pr(fsident Hull stated that he would hope that these goals could be accomplished by the beginning of the '97 school year. Some of the benefits that he sighted if these levels are reached, were 1) It will enable trustees to double the amount of time they spend fund raising in the Bahamas each year, as well as provide acc.ommodations .for their families ·as necessary, t:hereby promoting \family values.\ 2) The additional funds will provide the President and his family with an added sense of financial security, so that he can give more of his undivided attention to other more important matters, i.e. golf, sailing, squash, his broker. 3) Finally and most importanily, the ne~ luxury surcharge on housing in Raymond will hopefully prevent any mor·e incidents like those seen in the past at room lotteries. At least two students are killed each year in riots that tend to break out as students vie for those precious rooms located on the northeast comer of this magnificent campus. I think I speak for the entire campus community when I say President Hull we are behind you 110%. If there is anything the student body can do to accelerate the implementation of these proposals, please just say the word. The sooner this plan can be accomplished, the sooner we can all put our minds at ease~ and tend to our more immediate academic worries. LOOK .. AFTER YOUR <if FRIENDS 1 ' DES!GtWl:-kDRIVER -----------------~------------------------ 5% Discount on Tuition for Next Fall Term! Present This Coupon Along With Student ID and Money Will Be Refunded At the beginning of Next Fall. [expires 9/29/93. Collect at the Presidents Office in the Administration Building] ----~-------------------------------------~----~-- IF YOU ARE INTERESTED IN WORKING FOR CONCORD!, FORGET IT! WE HAVE TOO MUCH HELP AT PRESENT. COME BACK NEXT YEARf! (P.S. Do we even need to say April Fool's?}

Fomtded at Union Colle~~ l877 AREN'T WE FUNNY? Every once in a while it is healthy to take a step back, look at oneself,. and laugh. Those people that can do this stand the greatest chance for improvement. This theory also applies to organizations. . This week's Concordiensis was intended to be humorous. Although we pok~ fun at other groups, such as those that run Silliman Hall,. the finance groups at Union, and the hockey team, amongst others, we also laugh at ourselves. It is truly a shame that Concordiensis cannot ·win the awards described, however, getting upset about this fact will not accomplish anything. Acknowledging . that the newspaper has certain faults will lead to the most rapid improvement. ·Editors Note : AU of the material presented in this • week's issue contains false information (not unlike our usual articles), and is not intended to be read seriously. Please do not get concerned that tuition will be $50,000 . · by 1997, although we are cert~nly ,tleaded upward. · Please do not cry for the loss of Bruce Delventb:al to the Union hockey program. For better or worse,· he will not he the olympic coach. HAPPY APRIL 1st!! Chief Idiots Executor News Owls Analysis Outsider News Featurettes Late Layout Arties Sports Copy machine Scientist Money Mavens ·Apathy Campus Picturesque Assesques . Seniorettes Sleep A~lot Neditor· Pizza PL~ase Big Mouth Mrs. Mouth Bl<>ndie · Big Mouth Buddy Aunt Edna · Studette Layout Lisa - The- Wkaeker:. · t> ~ + • • ' Tricky''Nild .. · Rally Talley Belinda Best. Diggin' Dagan Ms. Ttu:tle Callin' Caulkin Sun tan#l · Sun tan#2 Sun ·tan#3. Star Woman . . . 1· Sott·Aslt len Condom. Queen Inspector Blades Whdaet . ... _._ . Prof.. l:~ ::.m. ··· .. ::'}.··· Iq~ SUBMISSIONS : All submi~sidtist··: Co n c or die n sis are due the Tuesday before publication by 4 PM if they are . submitted on Macintosh Microsoft Word Disks. Otherwise all submissions are due Monday by 4 PM in the drop box outside of the Coneordiensis office on the third floor of the College Center. CONCORDIENSIS is published eight Thursdays a term (occasionally nine times) by the student body of Union • College, Schenectady~ New York 12308. Office telephone (518) 370-6155, Advertising . telephone (518) 370-6494. ,{' CONCORD! PHOTOGRAPHERS HARD AT' WORK There was a lot of snow this past winter . . . ,- .-.-. ' ··.-·:--·,,- .......... . - .:· .--~·.-· --<' •' ~ ·- ~ . -; - ~ • - .0-• .. . ~ .. .ri@f~~~g~· ··l.p~~ ''*'f Photo by Inspector Scruff ... and now its melting (what a mess!) Photo by Inspector Scruff The weather was so nasty at times this winter that some students used drying machines to keep themselves warm and dry. Photo by Condom Queen :

<!L11ncor 1lttttsis ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Grateful Dead to Play at West Beach By :Bertha Contributing writer Passing through The rest ·Of the band was just as pleased with the prospect of playing at Union because they \c~uldn't wait to do a naked Nott run and a campus crawl\ as well as hang out at \that gFOovy campus bar\ better known as Chet's. Tish has expressed her utmost excitement in catching up on the gossip with those \c111nchy cuties.\ Tish is even thinking of trading her hair gel for a tie- dye and some bells. Aprill, 1993, page 5 Schenectady on his way to the shows at Albany, Jerry G&rcia, lead singer of the Grateful Dead, fell in love with ~he quaint town we've all grown to love. Captivated by the Scarlet Begonias and Sugar Magnolias that adorn every lawn and windowsill in beautiful Schenectady, Garcia vowed to continue the tour on our own West Beach instead of at Nassau this weekend. Commenting on his decision,Garcia declared, Schenectady as \the sunshine daydream'~ of the world Furthennore, lle promises to include the song \Sweet Schenectady Sky'' in his song list in his upcoming album. Rumor has it that Garcia is thinking of taking up residency in Schenectady on Hamilton Hill. He even expressed interest in taking night courses at Union in the fall. In the meantime, get psyched for a great show on West Beach. Break out those Birkenstoc~ and tie-dyes. Umli (Q)JlJl JE3 cmnd WitJh JRCA \JT(QJ C1IDt JR~~corrd JR.eC(Q)JtdJing CeQ) Union College Film Commitee presents: Thursday Night Movies Yellat Seil Arts Editor display of talent and the crowd dispersed one listener remained. As the man approached the members of the band clad in a Wok The Dog, a band made trench coat and' sunglasses .the up of Union students~ has been players thought that it might discovered by RCA, one of the have been the F.B.I. coming to largest and most prestigious question them about there last recording companies of today. gig in Las Vegas (about which The band made it's debut in the there are rumors about naked College Center last tenn with a women and possible mob small concert at Chet's. While involvement) but that is a many students enjoyed the whole other story. The man concert little did they, or the asked the band some trivial band,· know that there was a questions about names, April 1- Debbie Does Dallas April 8- Debbie Does Dallas II April _.15- ~ep __ :T~:t()~~~- :~· · f'a1enl-·.~-:sc.qii[~~::::&.G_-A~)10meto:wn~ .etc. and then he ~-·.· -- ' --amongsrthem: ·· Mtet the band · - hit 'them with the big question April 22- John Holmes' greatest hits April 29- Marylin Chambers' Insatiable May 5- Swedish film festival!!! May 12- Home video night! May 19- Live entertainment! May 26- Hugh Heffner Appreciation Night All . shows are $1.00 All shows start at 2:00 a.m. Spring Swim. Suit Fashion Show featuring ... Katl1y Ireland April 3- All Day! · stopped their impressive \How'd ya like to be famous?\ RATZ by .BEN SMITH l C~T 6£LIEIIE SCM£ Of 11\f. 1\l\IIG:. ~EOI'Lf UO ii-\ESE 'OP.'(S. \i\W, If\ W>,l)OtlNk t>ID W\\l.T ~£ 'S DOltiG 1~ I.a.!/ t>AY. '51\t 't> Bt · lt<RR~ NolO F£1\lliEREt>, T1Et1 10 \' 'STh'l<£ I 1\l't;l 'fll,\lll'P€1> TD lfttTI\IN AN \tlC\1 Of' \G~LtFE! MONET EXHIBIT TO VISIT . . At first the band was puzzled and thought it some sort of cruel joke or that maybe they were on Totally Hidden Video. but when the gentleman announced his title, that of RCA Talent Scout, the group was mystified. After that the rest is history. Now they are being taken to New York to record their first album and from there their future is bound to be full of fame and fortune. Wok The Dog is proof that Union students DO succeed! UNION. COLLEGE SPRING 1993!!! ~ PAINTINGS_ BY THIS MASTER OF IMPRESSIONISM WILL BE AVAILABLE .. ' .. . ' FOR FREE VIEWING F'ROM APRIL 5th TBRO{JGH MAY lst.

Aprill, 1993, page 6 FEATURES A Message for Doug by Erin O'Neil Features Editor - It took me a long time to get up tile nerve to write this article. I'm about- to admit something I've been trying to hide for months. It's very personal, but I just can't get up the nerve to actually tell him to his face. I have all this space in the Concordiensis and never realized that the perfect way to tell him was right under my nose. I'm going to do it. I'm taking a deep breath. I'm just going to say it ... I LOVE YOU· DOUG BARTELL! {For those of you who don't know, Doug is the other· Features editor.) Doug, I know you must have caught me staring at you across the Concordy office. 'tell me you feel that surge of electricity when our eyes meet. God, it almost knocks me. over. I want to run my fingers through your silken hair. I want to hear you say those magic words, \Sleep with me Erin.\ Doug, enough of this harmless flirting. I want to make my dreams a reality. I want to sweep you off your feet and hop the first plane to Tahiti. Just you and me Doug. Picture it. Imagine what we could do to eacll other alone on the beach at nigbt. I'm getting hot. Oh Doug, please tell me you feel the same! I don~t want you for sex ... ex.clu~ively. I want you to be mine forever. I'm talking marriage. I want to get a nice little llouse in the suburbs (picket ;fence optional). I want to bear your children. I'll stay home tQ raise them, as well as cook and dean for you. Basically, I want to spend the rest of my life barefoot and pregnant. MY only .goal is to be the best Mrs. Douglas Bartell that I can possibly be. You will not wamt for anything honey. How can you resist me? you may think I'll be embarassed by le~ting the whole school read this, but I don't care. I want Union College to know that I want Doug Bartellt I want the country to know! Golly, I want the whole world to lro.ow! Doug, will you marry me? April fool (I love Ned)! Awareness Awareness Week April 4-10 Let's all be aware that we are aware!!! Join the Consciousn~~s L~6v~:r~- .. -Of :A:iiieri~:a ';:for· ·Awar,eness· Awareness Week ~ Swimming Lessons Available Rathskellar The For A Limited Time Only!!!! Sign Up Now. At Take advantage of this opportunity while you can, we don't flood everyday!!! Lessons -are available punc~ and a meal I.D. with one .picture card The David Korish Diet Center 123 Wacko street, Waco Texas. At the David Korish Diet Center, once you enter the confines of our complex, we· insist that you stay for at least a full month without seeing so much as the light of day. While inside you will work off pounds by doing exercises like grenade tossing and au.tomatic weapons firing. Our complex is surrounded by people who will !constantly be trying to lure you out and break down your will power,· but relax- we wou'ldn't allow such a thing! At the David K()risl1 Diet Center you wil'l lose weight, especially when our supplies run out. Join Us Now. The David Korish Diet Center- Where You'll Lose Weight. We Swear To God!l! . OltUU:llr hh~ltsLn Union Dining #2 in N·ation Michele Rosenbaum Contributing Writer ''\ While s0me were out Ullder the sun in the Bahamas and others were catching up era their sleep, during spnmg break, a great happening occurred in New York City. No, it wasn't any ordinary event. It was the Naticnal College Food Service Award Ceremony. Believe it or not, Union College dining service got sec.ond place! Union was one of twe11ty colleges and universi~tie:S across the country to be invited to the awatrd ceremony. This is the fhr;t year we were invited since 1964. That year, we won first place and as an award not only dfd we win a troplly, but we won free ice cream f()r a year. After all the complaining you hear around campu.s about the food, we really have nothing to complain about. There were seve1al categories. and Union ramked highly in all. Overall,. ...ve received second only to Tufts University in Boston. 'II'Iw.e only category points were deducted for was the salad bar. They clai~ed the lettwc:e was a bit watery. Beginning with the first and-most-impillttant -meal ()f the day, breakfast. S tewen Davis, the head of ltlle National Food Associatioon · said, \Union's eggs were s;o delicious, I would prefer to ·eat in West Dining Hall tfuMl any diner.\ He said this after stating that diners are the best places to have break:fas t. They were extremely impressed with the corned beef bash, and the :hot wheatina cereal. I'm sure half the student body has ne-ver attempted to try these fooos, yet they led our diJtin g ~ services to ·receive a ten· out of ten for breakfast So, stoOp eating those Bruger's bagels or that Ca]ltain Crunch, and try something' new! We did wonderfully in tthe lunch category. However, as I said before, they felt the salad bar was not up to par! They were enthused abowt having hamburgers e\ery day. The grilled cheese sandwiches . were rated number one; since the tasters felt they weren't the slight-est bit greasy. They loved Uhe split pea soup and the Vegetarian Sukiyaki. Mr. Davis made a (elllark that our lunches are. so tllied with choices, if he were a student he would find it difficult to choose. We received a nine in this category. . The dinner category, again, was excellent for Union. They ~loved the noodles with attich()kes and tbe cheese steak. HoweveF, .they claimed. that the . baked potatoes were a little over cooked, causing us to lose a few points along with the lettuce problem. As a result, we onLy r~eived an eight out of ten, We were higher than over half the s<;hools invited to the awards ceremony. Appearance, another category in the event, was another number one for Union. They thought West Dining Hall was a perfect atmosphere for the excellent food we receive. The Up:perclass dining hall was rated the best in the country. They !Called it an Upper class \Dining Room.\ They loved the decor and the view out the windows. The Rathskeller and Dutch Hollow also were considered to be great dining areas. They did feel that the Rathskeller was a bit to dark, but they enjoyed the music and the spirit. As a second place award, we will receive a trophy, which will be placed on the middle table in the College Center. We will receive four frozen yogurt machines. Two machines will go. in West and two will go· in Upperclass Dining. Each dining hall will have chocolate and vanilla yogurt. So no . more anticipation on what yogurt Dutch Hollow will have! You hear it all the time at lunch, people are already asking what kind of yogurt will be at Dutch. With the new yogurt machines, you can have the popular dessert twice in one day. You will be able to get it in the dinning hall and the specialty flavor at Dutch. Now that's. heaven! So, next' time you :speak to yow friends at Cornell, Penn State, or even the Culinary Institute, about food at school, remind them that you go to Union. They11 be dying to join you for dinner! They know our dining service beat theirs. Food is an important part of your college experience. Union definitely did their part! Give the cooks a hug, they know what their doing . ...,. •. . .- :Iii! • . • ,.... • *' • . .... • • . . . .. .. .... . ~.......... . . ~\~\'~~~~·•~~:¥~a~~~ KISS· MY I l I. I ! I____,~ Uni dis he disap] Skatin winte~ inc red for th see in~ skater Rink11 So1 top B Langt Some Resid Colle! don't :hehru a low goes Sidm:: the s~ team Sida1 talent the desce and famill Russi traim Arm) years hock, Tikh Sidar to pi:; the B avoid the · Plad ~yf folic Finla B old Olyn grea Desp foun<

~ .. ~ ,e.- ,. ;. ~ I Aprill, 1993., page 7 I @.tlltrDrbieusis SPORTS !·==~~======================== 1 Soviet Star Steps up for Skating Dutchmen ' ! --~----~---------- ByHaiPoret Co Sports Editor Union hockey fans may be disheartened by the disappointing record :the Skating Dutchmen posted this winter. but there is one new incredibly positive bright spot for the team. We will be seeing a new and ·exciting skater on the ice at Achilles Rink next season. Some of you know him ,as a top Economics and Japanese Language student at Union. Some of you know him as a Resident Advisor in West College. But if many of you don't know him, it is beca11se he has been forced to live quite a low key life until now. He goes by the name of Josh Sidman, but in the mid-19SO's ,the Soviet Red Army hockey team knew him as J osev Sidamonatov. the mo·st talented, rising hockey star in the Soviet Union. A descendant of the Narystlldn and Pugachevsky ruling families of early 20th Century Russia, Sidamonatov had :been trained to skate for the Red Army team since he was a 3- years old in Moscow. Soviet hockey expert and Coach Tikhonov feels that had Sidamonatov been old enough to play in the 1980 Olympics, the Russian team would nave avoided their disaster, losing to the United States in Lake Placid, and would have easily taken the Gold medal in the foiiowing round against Finland. But by the time Josev was old enough to play in the Olympics, he had experienced great trouble in Russia. Despite his great ability, he found :no freedom to practice his chosen religion of Zen Buddhism. After being selected in the 3rd round of the NHL draft by the Montreal Canadiens, Sidamonatov defected from Russia with childhood friend and inferior skating mate, Alexander Mogilny. While Mogilny risked the dangers of appearing in the .-.. ~ ·- $ > 0 ';j § ~· .... r'-l s o;l,l· c: ·~ _;::l ~ spotlight of the National Hockey League, Sidamonatov made his way to Union and forged a new, fake life as Josh Sidman, in t989. Deciding to avoid hookey for a wb.ile, · Sidman tllmed his efforts ioto a tempGraty: .academic .. cal:eer_, But when Sidman spent the 1991-92 rear in Japan, this all changed. Under the tutelage of Zen Buddhist Master and ex- Kansas City Royal pitcher Paul Splitorff, Sidman purified his mind and .was able to perfect his skating and puck .. handling ~rough meditation. After blasting a slapshot at the blistering speed of 135 miles per hour, he knew he had to return to· hockey. Sidman returned to the· United States and spent the summer of 1992 in Nepean,. Ontario playing pick-op hockey with NHL star Steve ~!..: ~ ' ' ~~---.~· Yzerman of the Detroit Rei Wings and with Jayson Flowers and Clrris Albert of Union . After repeatedly dominating Yzerman, Sidman felt he was ready for the NHL, but be needed to be redrafted because he had waited too lopg_ -for the· , Canadiens' pick to hold. SIB Josh returned to Union and observed the Union Hocke:y team this season, whihe keeping an eye on his old friend Mogilny who plays for- the Buffalo Sabres. Despite Union's record, Sidamonatcv (he now wislles to return to his real name) feels the team has great potential and even though ht? is a senior, Josev has decided to use his 4 remaining years of college hockey eligibility to play for Union. In doing so Sidamonatcv has turned down a full scholarship offer from Harvard business school, as well as multiple $100,000 a year jobs on Wall Street. Josev came to the Concordiensis to confess his situation. \Now that the Soviet Union no longer exists and there is no threat, l have decided to' play h:ockey for Union so that I can be redrafted. Since Alex [Mogilny of the Sabres] is leading the NHL with 73 goals and Pavel Bore, who I practically taught the game, is a 50 plus goal scorer for S llil ~JIJP 1l (()) lDl ~ s · U ni s <e}! s (It [ CQ) IDl 709 State Street 3 72-4'3 21 mon. -sat. 9 a.m. $ .p.m. Union Student Discounts - Vanccuver, I feel I have a good shot.to break Wayne Gretzky's record of 92 goals in a season. I am also pleased that Winnipeg Jet mokie Teemu Selanne has shattered Mike Bossy's rookie .scoring record, with Gver 70 goals, so I'll have sometlling challenging to shoot for in my first NID... season. But tirst I'd like to help out Union,. which has helped me hideout i:n safety,\ Sidamonatov said. Josev may sound a little over-confident, bnt after all, he did average 37 goals and 29 assists more tllan Mogilny when they traveled together for Tikhonov's Team Dynamo between 1985 and 1987. Sidamonatov will wear number 88 (symbolizing his escape from Russia in 1988) and will be do11ble-shifted, playing on one line with Ryan Alaspa and Brad K.ukko, and another with Chris Albert and Jayson Flowers. After watching a tape of Sidlun.onatov ,dominating the likes of Gretzky, Mario Lemieux and Mark Messier in the 1987 Canada Cup, Coach Bruce Delventhal anticipates a first place finish in the ECAC for Union next season. After watching Sidamonatov's slapshot, RPI goalie Neil Little has reportedly quit the RPI team and is attempting to transfer to Nortllem Michigan or Wisconsin which do not face Union 11ext season. Unfortunately, Josev is likely to be the first selection in the 1993 NHL draft~ so we'll have to see how long we can keep him at Union. Good luck with the Skating Dutchmen next year Josev. ,c orne to the place where ugly men and woman of all ages get bad ·haircuts. Famous people who have been serviced at AI Sharpton's Salon Tiny Tim HBRAHH~ _,.,. Elvira ~EEHEe Don King I'/:= Telly Savales You Too Can Hav.e. A Bad No II At All Haircut Even Ha1r I

Delventhal Named U._ Olympic Douglas W. Bartell Concordiensis Staff In a move that shocked the entire United States Hockey Foundation, Union College Head Coacb Bruce Delventhal was named coach of the 1994 U.S. Olympic Hockey team. United States Olympic Chairman Harry Johnson made the announcement at a press conference in New York City yesterday saying, \We made a long and arduous search but I sincerely believe that the right lllan was chosen.\ Coach In the 1992 Olympic Hockey games, tfie United Stales made their strongest showing in 12 years, making the medal round before finishing fourth. The success of the '92 team gives great promise to tile '94 squad. something which has not been lost on Delventhal. Delventhal is trying to convince goalie Mike Gallant to attain his citizenship and play for the team. question of wether or not he meant that statement. seriously. What should be taken seriously, how ever, is the United States' chances with Coach Delventhal at the helm. \The '92 team was a classy bunch of hard, working guys.\ Delventhal said, \This time, with a little more luck and the same level of goaltending and scoring, we should beat those pesky Russians and Canadians by six or seven goals.\ by Irwin 'li'ldcher ConcordiensisSraff This weeks Atlllete of the Week is Dagan La Corte, manager of Union~s Skating Dutchmen. La C()rte shares the job with fellow freshman Phil Boyce. The managerial vacancy arose after veteran manager Bob Hussar m(i)ved lo Israel to become a Rabbi. With Hussar gone, La Corte made some changes vvllich will forever effect the course of Union Hockey. Before the season, when Delventhal was unable to make a trip to Canada to find new players, he sent La Corte as his representative. La Corte recruited freshmen Ryan Alaspa, Brad Ku.klm, and defensive phenom Reid Simonton. In addition .to his scouting skills La Corte, · al()ng with swimmer Lee Scha~hter co- designed the new Rink/pool wbich will begin construction in 1.994. The new facility is llei11'g financed by Mr Urldethill. L<i' Corte's biggest success of the· season, came in the game v~Fsus: Vermont. After the se<:ond period, Union goalie Lujgi Villa quit the team when he heard that NBO agreed to pwohase his new line of men's su.its for the price of $1 mi:Uion. With Villa gone, Delventhallooked to La Corte to d0n the goalie pads. With hisidentity unknown, La Corte turned away all of Vermont's sh()ts, and led Union to victory. Coach Delventhal had this to &ay about his first year manager, \The performance of Deeg's has been excellent, I bo:pe he will accompany me whe11 I coach the Olympic teatll ne:xt year. I heard that the previoas Olympic managers hav~ been very Shakos.\ a Miller Runs World-Record Mile . by ;Mike Lupica Concordiensis Staff In a recent chmrpionship track meet, Union's Jonathan Miller smashed the world- record for the mile with a time of 3:28.69. Mter the ·race he was ecstatic, unable to fully control his emotions. As he broke down in tears, he told the Concordiensis sports staff: \I can't believe it! I owe it all to my training partners for inspiring me to always work harder- especially Joe Saltzbart. He was my main man in the corner, the one who motivated me the most.\ Joe was unavailable for comment, but Conc:ordiensis learned that Joe enj()yed the times they ran tc!gether as well. One source close to botb athletes informed us that Joe was, in fact, a little disap]JOinted because he did not eve11 qualify, but was proud of MiUer anyway. The source also told us that Joe was not swprised because of \Miller's natural speed and quickness and th.e size of his legs.\ C()Ilgratulations to Miller on his fine performance. Coach Delventhal has resigned his position at Union, a position scheduled to be filled some time next week. Possible candidates for the job are AI Arbor, the great coach of the New York Islanders, and Wayne Gretzky, who has expressed sincere interest in retiring from the Los Angeles Kings and coaching college hockey in Upstate New York. To help bolster the Olympic squad, Delventhal is trying to convince goaltender Mike Gallant to attain his U.S. citizenship and try out for team. Other suggestions that Delventhal has made to the U.S. Olympic committee include naming Scwazz the official U.S. Olympic mascot, and distributing Union College students free Olympic tickets if they present their student I.D. , .. •, ...... \:: ..... - ... h ·'h' ,c . . rae .•. ·' .. ·Scbach .... _.Is, .. . rJe.ad -!··'· When the announcement was made regarding his appointment as coach of the '94 team, Delventhal broke into tears and thanked his wife and family. \If I do anything else as Olympic Coach,\ Delventhal said, \I want to bring the Union atmosphere to our Olympic games. The great band. the enthusiastic fans, the goal scoring vigor and the winning tradition- those are the things that I have had the fortune of coaching under at Union and those are the things that I hope I will have in the Olympics.\ Delventhal recognizes that the task at hand is a difficult one and that achieving the level that was attained by Herb Brooks and the 1980 \Miracle on Ice\ team will be difficult. He thinks a gold metal is attainable however, and won't stop until he gets one. \I'd say our cllances of winning the Olympics are about as good as my chances were of being named head coach.\ Delventhal said. He refused to answer the ' i ! I. . i i '' I'

I I 'i , i ' ' I ' Founded at Union College 1 877 Volume 122, Number 18 · Schenectady, NY AprilS, 1993 Alford Named Dean of Students Watson Fellowships A warded Succeeded Mammola on April 1 Schenectady, NY (April, 1)- Frederick Alford has been prt)moted to the position of Dean .of students at Union College, it was announced by Union President Roger Hull. Alford has been a member of the student affairs staff at Union since 1987, first as an assistant Dean of Students, and m<Jst recently as an associate Dean of Students. supervision of the College's judicial system. I Alford said it's part of \a natural progression for associate deans to become deans\ and he's thrilled for the opportunity to stay at Union to reach this goal. by Heather Reyuolds Concordiensis Staff Every year, grants totaling approximately one million dollars are awarded to 65 graduating seniors from s~all liberal arts colleges and universities around the United States. These grants are given in the name of Thomas J. Watson, the founder of IBM, and were established by his wife. Mrs. Watson in honor of her husband. This year. two- Union students, .Katherine Ross and Elizabeth Tri]}:p. were amoung the 65 chosen to receive a $15,000 stipend to, \explore interests of deep concern, test their aspirations and abilities, and view their lives and American society with new perspectives\. said Mary Booner, executive director of the Thomas J. Watson Foundation. The Watson Fellowships \support independent travel and study outside the United States for each recipient for the year following graduation.\ Their projects may be in any area of interest, wbich range from the study of owls and their environment in Africa and Australia to passing heritage to children through drumming in Mali. This year, Elizabetll Tripp and :Katherine Ross were chosen from nearly 200 finalists. Tripp will be studying , the development of ancient engineering while Ross will be conducting a photo study of physically disabled people. Elizabeth Tripp, a Civil Engineering major with a minor in Classics, will he going to Italy, Greece, Israel, Egypt, and Turkey nex1 year. She says slle hopes to look at existing structures, such as aqued.ucts, draingage systems, and highways, but also to work on site with archeologists, to trace the engineering development in different societies around the world. Tripp will be doing a. photo study of these investig~tions, and as with all applicants, will write a paper of any :lelligth, to . be submitted to the Fellowship . committee, about her trip and experiences. Tripp said that she ha.s been aided a great deal in the development of her o1iginal idea and now more in depth work on establishing colltacts ~t these sites, by Professor of Classics, Scott Scullioa. She has seen from her classics \ studies how archeologists trace . contacts of ancient civilizations through art they have found. She hopes to do the same with engineering techniques and styles. Ross,a math major at Union, may seem to have a project that doesn't quite fit with her major, but she says she did not discover her love for the arts until she took a photography course last year. She hopes that this fellowship will be the culmination of her study of the arts here at Union. Ross's idea to study physically disab~ed children developed slowly. She knew she wanted to come up with a . cont. on page 2 · photo by Brianna Patnode A·resident of Schenectady, he is a graduate of Hawthorne College and received his Masters and Doctorate in education from Harvard University. \I am delighted for Fred and Union,\ Hull said. \Having worked closely and well with . Union students for nearly six years, Fred deserves the promotion.\ Steinmetz Symposium Scheduled for May Among his major by Veronica Rogers News Anaylsis Editor responsibilities at Union have been the orientation program for freshmen, advising international students and Greek organizations, the development of extra-curricular ed11cational programs, and Alford was named to the position following a national search, and assumed his new responsibilities April 1. He succeeds Joseph Mammola, who was recently promoted to Vice President for campus life. Union College's tbird annual Steinmetz Symposium will be held May 14th this year as it joins Prize day on May 15th as an event termed \Recognition Weekend\. In her third year as director of the Symposium •. IN THIS ISSUE NEWS : Depo-Provera, an in~ectable . form of birth control is now available to women in the United States. Depo- Provera, made by Upjohn company is ninety-nine percent effective and an injection lasts for three months. Seepage 3. A & E : There is a display of the works of Union students Amy Cypress and Chet Urban in the Arts Building tllr'()ugh April 10. · Cypress is mostly displaying paintings and Urban's scuptures are on exhibit. See page 6. BUSINESS : The market for kosher foods has been booming over the past few years, and many companies, including R.J. Coors have started to place a kosher emblem on their foods. Are there motives kosher? See page 10~ SPORTS : Julie Benker, a Union College senior, set a national record en route to winning the NCAA III championship in the 100 ·meter backstroke. There were many success stories from the national championships · and Susan Bassett was named coach of the year. See Page 16. · Dean Margaret Schadler stresses what a great opportunity the Sympo!;ium is for students of all yea.rs.The Symposium is a forum for students to present pr~jects, papers, thesis work or other ::reative accomplishments to the entire College Comoounity. The Symposium is a forum broken up into three sessions, with the first and third sessions designated as presentati()ns and speeches by students, and the second session giving people a chance to view visual and artistic presentations. During the first and third sessions the time slots are split up so that topics similar in discipli11e, but not specifically from the same department, are presented together in different classrooms on campus. In order for students. to be eligible to present during the Symposium. they must send in an application and designate a faculty sponsor for 'their presentation. The list of students already signed up for this years Symposium began when 33 seniors went to Salt Lake City, Utah for this years National Conference for Undergraduate Research [NCUR]. This conference is like the Steinmetz Symposium, but on a national level. NCUR will make its way to Union in the bicentennial year 1995. Some examples of student work that will be in · the Symposium are \The American Societal Response to Population Aging\ by senior Leemor Amado, and \Societal Response to Prostitution\ by Christina Wright, sponsored by Ilene Kaplan of the Sociology Department. A presentation by Eli Doane on a \Six-Legged Autonomous Walking Machine\ will discuss a senior project that he worked on for most of the past year. Mirriam Seddiq, a Philosophy major. cont. 011 page 5

\ AprilS, 1993, page 2 NEWS (!Jnltrnr hi.eu.atz CAUSE Follows National Trend Student Forum Spotlight By Caroline Paine News Editor Union not only gives its students the opportunity to get an advantage in life through higher education, it also strives ahead in financial aid opportunities. Union sophomore, Shelley Reed, recipient of the college's CAUSE (Chester Au.ther Undergraduate Support for Excellence) award, was recently Watson ... cont. froa page 1 project for the f-ellowship, but wasn't originally sure what to do. After her experiences in a photography class and a trip to Vienna the idea began to evolve. She feels her experience here, while on crutches, began the whole idea. She. discovered how difficult it was to get around campus and eventually did a photo study of the love/hate relationship between herself and her crutches. Last spring she went on a term abroad to Vienna and knew she had to find a way to get back. With help from her father and a photography professor at Union, she established the final project idea. She would love to exhibit her work at Union when she gets back, but is not sure because the project has not yet begun. A few photos will be sent to the Watson committee, but in general the work done is, as Ross said, \Just for me.\ The committee only asks for a paper verifying that you did in fact complete the projects as you had originally set out to, and a financial statement of how you spent the money. As long as the project was completed as the applicant originally presented it, the committee has no further involvement. All work on the project, in terrns of where to stay, how to get there, and where and how to study, are the fellow's decision. Both Fellowship winners saw this as an amazing opportunity. It was only a matter of coming up with a project and location. The projects will be challenging, but both feel they will be worth the time and effort. featured in the Aprill993 issue of MQney magazine. The article explained how Union, among some select colleges around the country, has alieady adopted a financial aid package similar to President Clinron's \new\ plan to forgive college loans. Clinton prop()ses to excuse loans students undertake through public service jobs upon gmduation. Union's CAUSE Award grants students total forgiveness of their loans after five years in an occupation as a public servant. Reed is one of the eleven CAUSE Award recipients presently enrolled at Union. In the article she admits th~t the CAUSE Award made her attendance at Union possible. This program has given her the chance to receive more than just an education but to become involved in the many other opportunities that Union presents to its students. Reed is very active on campus. She holds a position in her sorority, Delta Gamma, participated in the Big Brothers/Big Sisters program, plays lacrosse and is in her second year of Unions five year MAT program. Upon graduation, Reed intends to become a public school tnath teacher in order to pay back her loan. President Clinton intends to spend $7.4 billion on his \National Service Plan\ over the next four years. He wants to instate financial aid packages, such as Union already has, to colleges and universities around the COI!Dtry, by 1997. Once again, Union College is one step ahead in education and financial aid opportunities. by Alex Sklavos Starting ne:xt Fall there will be a unique opportunity for Freshmen at U11ion College. An ad-hoc committee from the Student Forum bas been formed to create a Mentor Program for Freshmen. DUling the Fall rneeti!lgs of the Forum, it came to our attention that tllere was something missing from the orientation of Freshmen. S])(lcificaliy, after the week of Orientation, who exactly can the Freshmen go to with questions about how Union works? Wel'l, after several suggestions to implement a program, and then researclting other school's programs, we have come up with a program of our own called the Mentor Program. This is very similar to s11ccessful programs at other s~;hools. The Mentor ;Pfogram is very simplistic in nature. Its goals consist of providing a contact for the incoming Freshmen with an upperclassmen ,t1Jat is experienced on campus. There are so many questions that ~ Freshman has. Many of these cannot be handled in group situations. Having an upperclass friend can provide an outl~t for this pe;rson's questions. How would .it work? We would need the names of a sufficient number of current Freshmen, Sophomores, and Juniors that are interested. Wevrould then \assign\ you to one or two incoming Freshmen. We would provide both of you with each other's name, address md telephone number. The Freshman could then contact you with any questions he or she might have. Upon arrival at Union, your continued relationship is really up to you. We feel this ,JJrogram has the potential for creating great relationships between people, and fostering a connection between classes that did 11ot exist before. We hope to schedule a few events through next year for the Mentors and their Freshman so we can all get together as a group and evaluate wfuat we did. If you are interested, there will be a table in the Collese Center through next week. Or contact the following peopl~: Peter Savage 386-4106 Alex Sklavos 386-4112 Jon Miller 386-4167 Mia Caetano 372-3534 ASSOCIATE DEAN OF FACW.TY FOUNDED .,, SCIENCE: AND ENGINEERING CENTER SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK 12J08-2311 (518) 370-6233 MEMORANDUM I.E.F. DEADLINE The deadline for proposals for the Internal Education Foundation in two categorie~ -- student- initiated research projects and ••ectucationally innovative projects .. is May 13, 1993. Proposals for student-initiated research projects must have the written approval of a faculty advisor who bas agreed to supervise the project. The proposals sho11ld be submitted to the Dean's Office {S 100, Science & Engineering Building) on forms available tl1ere. . Similarly, members of the College C()tnmunity who have \ed11cationally innovative\ proposals should submit them to the same office on forms available there. · Forms for Faculty Research Projects 4tre also available in th~ Dean's Office {SlOO). Guidelines with respect to the I.E.F. 4re available in the Deu\s Office. Inquiries about l.E.F., t.ie guidelines, or t.lte proposal deadline should be directe-d to Margaret Dalton. Administrative Assistant to the Associate Dean of Faculty. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $50-85 per day. Transportation costs should also reflect the best rates available. Students who are planning to do interviews must indicat~ that arrangements have already been made. If your research includes work with human subjects, then the proposal must have preliminary approval from the Human Subjects Research Committee: before it can be funded by the Subcouncil on Undergraduate Research. *************************************t.********** FACULTY RESEARCH DEADLINE The Faculty Development Committee is now soliciting propc~als for faculty research and scholarship activities. Applications and guidelines are available in Dean Weiner's Office (S-100, S.&E). The deadline for submission of proposals is May 13, 1993. Questions concerning the Faculty Research Fund should be (Jirected to Dean Weiner. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates are norma11y limited to $50-85 per day. Transportation should also reflect the best rates available. If your research includes work with human. subjects, then the proposals must have preliminary approval from the Human Subjects Research Committee before it em be funded by the Faculty Development Commi'tee.

@riurDr hi.eusis Contraception Introduced for Women (NEW YORK) America's fitst injectable form of birth control, Depo-Provera Contraceptive Injection (rnedroxyprogesterone acetate), is now available to U.S. women, The Upjohn Company announced in January. Depo-Pro vera: ,is a prescdption medication that provides contraceptive protection for three months and is more than 99% effective, making it one of the most reliable birth control methods available. Depo-Provera Contraceptive Injection was cleared for marketing in October 1992. \Depo-Provera is a novel contraceptive that for the first time offers American women a highly effective, long lasting and easily reversible birth control option,\ said Jack J. Jackson, Senior Vice President of Pharmaceutical Operations at The Upjohn Company. \Depo Provera fulfills and important need in birth control opti<;>ns available to American women, especially those who find it difficult to take a daily pill or use other methods,\ said Andrew M. Kaunitz, M.D., Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology and Director of Family Planning at the University of Florida Health Science Center in Jacksonville, who has extensive clinical t},xperience using Depo-Provera. \It is a mainstream contraceptive choice for a wide variety of appropd~tely counseled women, \ he said. To educate patients and physicians abou.t Depo-Provera and other contraceptive options, the association of Reproductive·· Health Professionals (ARHP), a national asso-ciation of physicians and educators, announced an educational campaign to reach women who see physicians and nurse practitioners for contraceptive needs and counseling. \The goal of this educational effort is to increase understanding and awareness of contraceptive options among women and their partners,\ said Dennis J. Barbour, president of the Association of Reproductive Health Professionals. \ARHP 'bas designed the 'program to ensure the materials will reach the majority of women who see health care providers for cGntraception~\ he said. \ARHP ·campaign, which begins this month, involves distribution of educational videos, brochures and newsletters to more than 55,000 gynecologists, family practice physicians, nurse· practitioners .and family planning clinics across the country. The educational program also will include distribution of up to 20,000 packets containing Spanish videos and brochures for clinics and physicians in Spanish-speaking areas. There also will be a special 16-page issue of ARHP's pub li c at i o n Clinical Proceedings, which is targeted to medical professionals. This special issue will cover differeitt contraceptive methods -- including Depo- Provera -- and other related topics. The AR:HP health professiemal videos, brochures and newslle:tters give physicians and 'IllurSes practical inforrnatLon on Depo-Pro vera Contrac<eptive Injection, including; 1) Key !~sues o discuss with patients r-egarding benefits and side effe:eas; efficacy, safety and medical management issues; 2) Counsding infonnation and patient selection criteria, including infonnation about lactating women and those who have: had problems with other co11:traceptives. The video and bmchure for patients discuss tile five principle reversible: categories of birth control, answer candid questions about contraception and provlide a supplement to medical counsel on birth control op1ions; 3) How to administer Depo- Provera i~jections. Patie11ts and clinician materials also detail benefits and side e:ffects. The most common ~ide effect reported by wome!lusing Depo-Provera is change:s in the· menstrual cycle, usmally irregular or unprediclla ble bleeding or spotting. Other side effects include potential weight gain and headtche. Depo-Provera Contrac ei)tive Injection is contrainclJ.::ated in women with undiagnos-ed vaginal bleeding, breast malignancy, thromboe:mbolic disorders, cerebral vascular disease or liver disfUilction. The association of Reprodtuct i ve Health ProfessLo-nals is an interdisciplinary. professional organizaa:ion devoted to ed ucati n__g health care profession.als and the public on matters l'elated to human reproductive lives and health: family IJLanning, urogenital infections, s:exually transmitted diseases including HIV, contraceJ>tion, abortion, menopaus€, cancer prevention and detection, sexual health and infertility. Depo-Pl'overa is available for contraception in more than 90 countries, including Germany, Norway, Sweden Belgium, France, the United Kingdoma11d New Zealand. It has been used by millions of women around the world since 1969. The Upjohn Company is a world wi-de, research-based provider oef human health care products,. animal health products, agronomic and v:egetable seeds _and specialty chemicals~ Headquartered in Kalamaz«>o. Mich.. the company ~lias been dedicated to improving bealth and nutrition for more tblln a century. courtesyf!J{National Student. 1Vrews Service \ NEWS AprilS, 1993, page 3 Baxter Black Comes to Union Courtesy of Public Relations He has been called \Will. Rogers' weird grandson,\ \the dean of cowboy bards,\ and \the Art , Buchwald of the Stetson-and-Levi's crowd.\ He is Baxter Black, cowboy poet and humorist, who gave up a thriving practice as a livestock veterinarian to pursue his main (and much cleaner) interest--telling jokes, singing songs, and writing poems about rural people and rural values. Black's brand of humor, often described as \down-home\ or \earthy appears in weekly columns, (\On the Edge of Common Sense\) in nearly 100 newspapers and magazines, as commentary on National Public Radio, and iD several of his books, which have sold more than 150,000 copies. He has been giving about 100 shows per year over the last 10 years. Much of Black's humor examines the difference between man and animal, and most of his audience has never ·been on a farm. \Mcst of these people are four generations removed from ·the land,\ he said in an interview with the Christian Science Monitor. \They don't even know anyone who owns a cow. Their idea of animals is a cat who eats lasagna.\ Although his subject matter is strongly agricultural, his brand of humor has a universal appeal. One of his most 'requested poems, \Tbe Vegetarians Nightmare,\ is loved by vegetarians and non- vegetarians alike. Its first stanza reads: \I had planted a garden last April/ And lovingly sang it a ballad/ But later in June, beneath a full moon/ I, forgive me, I wanted a salad!\ Black also has appeared several times on The Tonight Show with Johny Carson, who 'once said of his poetry: \It's just a tragedy Keats didn 't.live to hear this.\ Black will give a free performance on Wednesday, April 14, at 8 p.m. in Union's College Center Auditorium. The public is invited. For more information. call (518)370-6608. NAVY NURSE CORPS. WE WANT TO START YOU ON YOUR WAY. A good foundation is important for a successful career. That's where the Navy Nurse Gorps can help. The Navy provides financial assistance to meet tuition costs of bachelor and advanced nursing degrees. This sets you on your way to a successful career in the Navy and tomorrow's high-tech world. Navy nurses experience the finest in personal, professional and financial r:wards including comp;uablc pay, 30 days pmd \'ctcation earned each year, and worldwide tra,·el. If your choice is to move up and out in the world, we invite you to consider the Navy Nurse Corps. For more information o'n 'the Navy Nurse Corps, visit your Navy Nurse Cotps represen- tative or call: 1-800-846-4980 Check with your Placement Office for detalls. NAVY NURSE You and the Navy .. Full Speed Ahead. COLLEGE STUDENT SURVEY ON SEX. Nationwide, written, survey. Total confidentiality assured (no phone calls, no names). All u·nion students urged .to participate. -For questionnaire, write: Student Enterprises, Suite 760, 405 Tarrytown Road, White Plains, NY 10607.

April8, 1993, page 4 NEWS Campus Trends Green Corps Saves the Planet Billed as ~ \Field School for Evironment.al Organizing,\ the recently-f011aded Green Corps offers new ~ollege graduates a chance to work. on today's pressing en-vironmental issues while gaining valuable management e~perience. Founded on the principle that the furore ·C!f the environment movement lies in the hands of the young, the Green Corps relies on theo ever growing pool of gradual<$ committed to social chang.e. \We look for ~people who are committed ·oo an environmental career; S()meone who is energetic, fl.e~i.ble, and creative,\ said Laura Steffe:n, Administrative Coordinator for the group. In return for their one-year commitment, individuals accepted intrO the Green Corps receive trai11ing which might normally be unavailable to an inexperienced cCOilege graduate. The year starts with a month- long classro~m training in August and progresses through one-on-one supervision and field training, all of which are designed t0 prepare the new hires for their responsibilities as field orgmizers in one of 41 cities across the United States. Colin Yost was one of the 38 lucky graduates chosen from the pool of 1,200 Green Corps applicants th::is year. \This is the biggest challenge l'voe had so far in my life,\ said the 23-year-old Yost, who was assligned to direct the Green Corps' Philadelphia office. \We work on so many different is~ues, in so many different ways,\ Yost said. \Whether it's holding press conferences of meeting with public officials or managing sometimes hundreds of volunteers,. you're just constantly running around doing things. But it's very invigorating as well, when you see things work out.\ Througho,u1 the year of service, each Green Corps organizer is given charge of six campaigns which address critical environmental problems w bile providing a broad range of experiential learning optp-ortunities. The campaigns are conducted in conjunction ~Mith some of the nation's leadillg environmental organizations, many of whom function as members of the Corps' exte=nsive Board of Directors. Tfue board includes such lumin:aries as United Farm Workers President Cesar Chavez and Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., who directs the Environmental Litigation Clinic at Pace University. on your own, responsible for running the national campaigns in that city,\ said Yost. \I've had to learn all the skills necessary to become a grassroots organizer. It's helped me tremendously in developing leadership skills and in becoming more organized as an individual. I feel now as if I could do anything.\ Although Green Corps officials have finished their selection :process for the coming year, students interested in working on their upcoming .summer campaign in conjunction with the Rainforest Action Network are encouraged 1:<> call Kelly Wark at (215) 829-1760 to get more infonnation about local offices. Public Allies Help the Community When Vanessa Kirsch completed a survey of young people titled \Democracy's Next Generation\ in 1987, she discovered that many adolescents were not involved with community service and social change work due to lack of opportunities, not because of apathy. The results inspired Kirsch to quit her j6b, pull together her friends and create a program which would connect future leaders witb nonprofit and community service groups. Her vision was realized in 1992 with the formation of Public Allies. \We are a. program that works to develop young leaders through placing them in full- time positions in nonprofit, community-development corporations and government agencies for one-year positions,\ said Jason Scott, a founding volunteer and current deputy director of Public Allies. Participants-known as \Allies\· are grouped into teams of 15 individuals, and each team focuses on one broad issue such as economic development, housing or · education. Although each Ally is placed and works individually, they come together as a team regularly over the cou:rse of their year- long appre11 ticeships for training and development of a service project tailored to their specific communities. Scott also emphasized the team concept as a boost for morale. \When we were designing the program we found that young people really wanted to see that they were making an impact, and the meetings allow them to share their victories,\ he commented. coordinating the daily activities of service corps memh~rs as team leaders. In 1993, Public Allies will select two teams of AJlies to serve in Washington, 'D~C., and three teams for CIL:ic~go. Tbese individuals wUl be chosen on the basis of community service experience and leadership potential. The program is specifically tailored for people who· rraight normally face obstacles to working in a corn mu nity service field, such as stu(ient loan payments, child care considerations or the lure of higher paying jobs. The salaries of staff members. are split between the host organization and Public Allies~ The program's success has prompted President Clinton's staff to mention Public Allies as a model- for a forthco111ing · national service program, and it is precisely ·this combination of public service and adequate compensation that makes the program so attractive to young people. \Public Allies heips me to make a difference, not ju:st a living,\ commented Sloan Wiesen, a 1992 Ally. Those interested in lear11ing more about Public Allies should contact the WaShington, D.C. headquarters at (202) 638- 3300. Students Plan to Lobby .. lll Washington More than 400 students will converge on Washington D.C. to express their concerns 4tbout President Clinton's National Service proposal during an 11 All Student Town Meeting\ on Mar. 22. \This will be the ftrst time students will have an opportunity, on a large sc:ale. to address their concel1ls on President Clinton's nati~Jnal service plan directly to tllose who will be formulatin~ it,\ said Stacey Leyton, president ()f the United States St11dent Association. \Students will be participating in the program, therefore it is importa11t for their voices to be heard\ Guests scheduled to appelll' at the meeting include Secretary of Education Richard Riley ~d White House Direct6r of National Service Eli Seg~L In addition, Senators Harris Wofford, Tom Harkin and Barbara Boxer will attend and converse with student leade~. Student groups llave expressed concerns abo11t the proposal, including tile fact that at it's height the plan will only serve 100,000 stu<lents while more than four million <!lJJur.or hie u.s in the ·u.s.A. now receive financial aid. \Students today hav-e a renewed sense of activisoo,\ Leyton proclaimed. \We htve hope for the future, and the energy and courage to mllke that hope a reality. Presitlent Clinton~s national service J)ian could aid thousands of y()11ng people in fulfilling 1tlieir dreams-our concern is that students have a role ill the formulation ctnd implementation of :the program.\ Veggie Campaign Targets Me Donalds A coalition of students and others have launched ~n \Adopt-A-McDonald's\ . restaurant campaign to raise awareness abo~t environmental, animal rigrnts and health impacts assodat(!d with the consumption of betef. From April through lv!l~y, the Beyond ·Beef campcti!!:n plans to organize thousand~ {)f activists each weekend at local McDonald's restaur:a n ts nationwide. The group b()p>es to inform more consu:111e.rs about \how the beef cultu.re contributes to the destr11ction of our environment, hu111an hunger. animal suffering ~nd dise . \ ase. The centerpiece of the landmark vegetarian camptlign will be launched April 1'\'7 when teams of activists ...-viii provide McDonald's customers with Beyond Beef buttons, balloons and leaflets ex:plaining how the production and consumption of hamburgers TeSult in rain forest destruction, soil erosion, water pollution, global warming, wildlife d·ec imatio n and the development of heart disease, cancer and strokes in humans. \Consumers will be amazed to leam the real cost of eating 'cheap' fast-food hamburgers is much higher that they thought,\ said Howard Lyman, executive director of Beyond Beef. Campai'gn organizers say .they plan to educate consumers as well as bring about concrete changes not only in American diet habits. but in McDonald's company policy, as well. \Activists will lobby local McDonald's franchises to serve vegetarian meals and devote 25 percent of their advertising budget to promote meatless alternatives,\ said Beyond Beef President, Jeremy Rifkin. \McDonald's is in the business of making money; the company will serve what people ask for.\ Campaign organizers expect to reach more than one million consumers at more than 1 ,000 McDonald's outlets in April and May. The stated goals of the campaign are to reduce beef consumption by 50 percent by the year. 2000; to replace beef in the diet with organically raised grains, legumes, fruits and vegetables; and to reform destructive cattle a11d beef industry practices. Those interested in participating should contact Beyond Beef officials in Washington, D.C. at (202)775- 0074. ·~ you. ~t: c corcita!Ly i.nvct.cd\. in\tirfoit:h passover s~r on t><c.:s.U.~,, npnf 13th 6:ll0pm o[d. rF=pcL co·spoi'ISored fly: je:w-i.sfl. sttu£at~t. un.i.on Earn $500 - $1000 weekly stuffing envelopes. For 4etails - RUSH $1.00 with SASE to: GROUP FIVE 57 Greentree Drive, Suite 307 Dover, DE 19901 The reward:S of the Green Corps curriculum are numerous. Not only are organizers paid for their services. but they also gain invaluable sk:ills. \You are y101.1I\ own boss in a lot of ways. It's you in the city Now in tbeir first full year, Public Allies are recruiting volunteers to spend weekends building housing in low- income communities; working with local nonprofit and government organizations to develop service initiatives; helping to organize science fairs in ~ea high schools; and 66 Days 'til Graduation!

NEWS Capital District Events Yevgeny Yevtusbenko to Read his Poetry Albany, NY -- Yevgeny Yevtushenlo, Russia's most publicized contemporary poet, will read from his work ·in Russian and English (with translation by Albert Todd) on Wednesday,. April14, 1993, at 8:00 p.m. in West Han Auditorium on the campus of Rensselaer Poly-technic Institute, in conjunction with the McKinney writing Contest sponsored by RPI. The reading is ftee and open to the public. Born in Zima, Siberia, Yevtush.enko's poems incorporate both public and private themes. During the late 50s and 60s he emerged as a prominent spokesman for Russian youth and for the new regime's commitment to more liberal policies. Yevt~shenko became the youngest member of the Soviet Writers Union and successfully resurrected the oral tr\.tditiQn of Russian poetry, reading his verse on public squares and in sports arenas before thousands of people. Although Yevtushenko's work generally remained Within the limitations set by Soviet censors. He occasionally provoked criticism and censorship form the authorities. Babi Yar and The Heirs of Stalin are his best known political poems. Babi Y ar broke the silence in Russia by commenting on Soviet involvement in anti- semitism during World War II. The Heirs of Stalin attacked the former Russian ruler and his followers~ In addition to his poetry, Y evtushenko bas also written prose including two novels, Ardabiola (1984) and Wild Berries (1984), which was a finalist for the Ritz Paris Hemingway Prize, and a collection of essays, manifestos, and speeches, Fatal Half Measures: The Cultltre of Democracy in the SovietUnion (1991). For additional information contact the Writers Institute at 518-442-5620. Pete Hamill to Discuss boxing History AJbany,~ --Journalista,d novetist Pete Hamill wil:l discuss the history of boxing on Thursday, April 15, 1993, at 8:00 p.m. in Bush Memorial Theatre on the Russell Sage CoHege campus, ·rroy, in conjuaction with \Beyond the Ring: The Art and Cuiiure of Boxing,\· sponsored by RCCA: The Arts Center. Earlier that afternoon, at 3:00 p.m. in Humanities 354 on the · University at Albany's uptown campus. Hamill will hold and informal seminar for students, writers, and the general public. Both Hamill's reading and seminar, which are free and open to the public, are sponsored by the New York State Writers Institute. Call the Institute at 518-442-5620 if planning to attend the seminar. Hamill has been a professional writer since 1960 wh~n he joined the New York Post as a general assignment reporter. He stayed with he Post for 14 years, nine of which were spent writing a column. He also wrote a column for three years at the New York Daily News and short stories .. for the Daily News' Sunday Magazine. Hamill recently became the new editor in chief of The New York Post. Hamill aUso has published seven novels including Tifu Gift( 1973 ), Flesh a,2d Blood(l971'), a story on boxing, The Guns of Heaven(19~3) and Lo vi 11 g Women (1989~. Both Flesh and Blood find The Gift were adapted for !television. HamiU has written many movie alld TV scripts,. and has taught screenwritin:g at the school for Visual Arts in New York. For additional information contact the W11iters Institute at 518-442-562:0. Rosa Luxemburg to be S'hown on AprH 16th Albany, NY--'fhe German film ROSA LUXEMBOURG (1985, 122 m1ns.,color, 35 mm format, in German with English subtitles) will be shown ort Friday, Apri'l Hi, 1993 at 7:30 :p.m. in Page HalL, 135 Westerm A venue, on tile University at Albany's downtown c;ampus as part of the Spring .. 1993 Classic Film Series spons.ored by the New York State W titers Institute. The screenin:g is free and open to the public. Directed b:y Margarethe von Trotta, ROSA LUXEMBOURG is an ambitious portrait of this legendary lt'!ftist leader who was the herojne of early 20th- century Eurr;~an radicalism. :Barbara Sukowa magnificently portrays Rosa's political battles, lowe affairs and frequent imprisonments playeQ. out against a richly-detailed panorama of war and revolution. For additfonal information contact the Writers institute at 518-442-5620. Thirty Union Students Attend NCUR by Heather Manley Concorriiensis Writer • From Thursday, March 25 through Saturday, March 27, thirty Union students went to Salt Lake City, Utah to participate in the National Conference of Undergraduate Research (NCUR). The Council of Undergraduate . Research (CuR) is a national 'group which seeks to promote research at the undergraduate level. Union Professors Karl DeJesus of the Chemistry Department and Frank Wicks of Mechanical Engineering joined the students at the conference and served as research ad~sors. Students ftorn all disciplines presented :either an oral presentation or a visual poster at the conference. According to Professor DeJesus, the conference was similar to Union's Sternmetz Symposium, but on a much larger scale. Some Union students began research during the summer for a fellowship, while others used research from a senior thesis or project. Applications, an abstract presenting research ideas, were due in the beginning of Winter TenJt. Professor DeJesus explained that ()ften the abstract is . presented before all the original intentions change by the time of the conference . • Union, which had many applicants and one of the largest representations at the conference, chose those members of the Senior class who presented exceptional projects. Tim Griffin, a .Senior Mechanical Engineering Major, gave a 15 minute oral presentation on \Alternate Refrigeration Systems,\ based on research completed during the fall and winter for his senior project. Griffin felt that the co11ference was a great experience and noted that Union was not only well represented but also of comparable caliber with other attending schools. Another st11dent, Eli Doane, a Senior Mechanical Engineering Major gave his :presentation on a \Walking Robot,\ a grouiJ senjor project completed witb an Electrical Engineering Major and a Computer Science Major. Doane represen1ed the group in Salt Lake City; He describes NCUR as a \learning experience\ .and felt that all Union presentations went well. Doane, Griffin, and an students wllo participated should be congratulated for being chosen t~ represent Union and f(}r doing an ~cellent job. AprilS, 1993, page 5 '93 Symposium cont. from page 1 will present \Arrogance and Lovt: The Female Dialectic of Generations\ sponsored by Linda Patrik. April 15th is the deadline for applications to be involved with the Symposium. Friday May 14th, the Symposium will tegin at 1:30 with Dean Schadler welcoming all participants. The sessions will end at 5:30 and will be proceeded by a banquet dinner for all presenters, moderators, and faculty. This year an extended invitation goes out to parents who are welcome to join in the festivities. This is the climax of intellectual and creative achievement for Union college students and all are encouraged to attend the various presentations. Interfaith Seder at Union by Michelle EH1is Concordiensis Staff On Tuesday, April thirteenth, at 6pm, there will be an interfaith Passover seder at Old Chapel. The Jewish Student Union, The Newman Club, and The Protestant Ministry will be sponsoring the event. The seder is open to the entire campus community and it is hoped that many people ·will attend. Limited space is available and students should make reservations immediately with Josh Kaplan (x4169) from the Jewish Student Union. Reservations will be accepted until the tenth, however, this is absolutely the last day to reserve seats. This is an unprecedented event, as it is uncommon for religious affiliated organizations to come together during religious holidays.The JSU hopes that this event will encourage unity at Union. Although only three organizations are sponsoring the seder, all individuals and groups that are interested should consider attending. Here is an event that has the potential to be an incredible success. Fight apathy and become involved while sharing a fun evening with your friends. LOOK AFTER YOUR FRIENDS DRIVER t..'tt \G,.bt;;Z ••• l'T'f:. CP LOR\ 'Z.GP. \~ -m~~J/0 ~ fa~ Ct)..t;.f.lc.. 1\.\l::r.\\\G.\\ ~'fN\ 0 RG?

Aprils, t993, page 6 ART,S & ENTERTAINMENT a:LJJlt.rnr:Uicu.sis Student Arts Exhibition Courtesy Arts Department April 1 tlrrough April 10 the Department of Visual Arts presents tw:o exhibitions by Amy Cypres (Painting and Mixed Media) and Chet Urban (Sculpture). These works are on display in the Atrium, Arts Building, open seven days a week 9:00am- 5:00 pm. The worlcs presented represent independent courses of study undertaken 'by these students and include a series of paintings and mixed media works by Cypres and a series of free standing sculptures by Urban. Cypres' exhibition is a powerfully evocative group of works which uses representational and abstract means to examine issues of personal idie11ti.ty, religion and contemporary feminism. Utbans\ large scale floor pieces of wood, steel and plaster raise issues of scale and sculptwal: space. His small steel pieces function in the ti:adition of constructed sculpture represented by David Smith and Anthony Cam. Untitled Work by· Amy Cypres Untitled Sculpture by Chet Urban Photo t>y Leif Zurmuhlen Photo by Leif ZummhJen ------------~--~----~-------------- ---~--------~~~.~----------.--------~~~~~~~~wwww~------~------- OSCAR IN PLASTIC SPURS by Thor Benander Concordiensis Staff cont. fr()m page t;; I was worried that the victory of Unforgiven was an isolated upset, bllt after Kentucy's loss in this year's final four, it's obvious that this is a year of undesenring winners. For the over four hundred members of the Union community who watched Unforgiven on campus this past weekend, the reaction was positive but hesitant. \I liked it. but I'm not sure it should have been the year's best movie ... \ Other reactions were more humorous. ranging from an elderly couple, (having braved the violence), flashing me a pair of pained smiles on their way out of the theatre as if to say, \we were ex.pecting something like South Pacific\ to Rob Dupuy falling asleep ten minutes in. The fiasco was topped off by Lori Mickenberg and Carolyn Francis giving the film their own Bronx cheer and garnishing it with matching Ebertish \thumbs-downs\. When I asked Lori why, she had a veritable bevy of answers, most notably her distaste of the character names, especially, what brilliant mind came up with the name \English Bob\? Sbe also commented how the name \Little Bill\ (for Gene Hackman's character) didn't instill the desired amount of fear, as in \gee whitakers, here comes Little Bill.\ She thought \Big Bad Bill\ would have been more effective, setting up a Leroy Brown image, so that the townsfolk of Big Whiskey could be heard mumbling \watch out for Big Bad Bill, he's bigger than ole' King Kong, meaner than the junkyard dog.\ Well, sometimes the name fits the situation in the way that yon love nicknaming a portly friend \Slim\. I doubt that Robin Hood's right hand man would have been better named \Big Bad John\. (Is that PC? Maybe I should call him. Robin's ambidexterous man ... ) Now, that's not to say that Lori is wrong, the names <lid come off as slightly simplistic, but I think that was the mark that Eastwood was trying to hit. By many accounts. it seems that he placed that mark in an advantageous position. On the surface, this year\s Academy Awards celebratioll was a tribute to women in the movies. To me it seemed strained, that is to say more forced by burgeoning PC trends than a genuine honorarium. Barbara Streisand swnmed it up best, saying basically that she looks forward to the day whe11 tributes like this are 1,mnescessary, and everyone Call work in an environme11t free of gender based judgements. But what the Oscars were all about was minimalisrn. as evidenced by the underacting by Chris O'Donnell in Scent of a Woman, Demi Moore in A Few Good Men, Stephen Rea in The Crying Game, and Clint Eastwood in Unfor give 11. Basically the theory of \less is more\ was prominent. William Munny said \I guess\. in Unforgiven twenty seven. times. The Oscar race was' geared toward the darker si<le this year, with the two front runners glorifying seedy locations and would-be degenerates. What it translated into is that the lifetime achievement award . was already earmarked for Federico Fellini, and the: Academy knew that it wa~ probably Clint's last. stand. (Who, amo11g the Academy voters, hasn't Clint worked with?) The Fellini choice was an excellent one, and long overdue for a man who singlehandedly advanced the art of Film by colossal leaps and bounds. The dec is ion to pick Unforgiven as this year's big winner, conversely, was not such a good call. Let's face it, there were better films. Without trying to seem bitter, how about Lorenzo's Oil or The Player, or A River Runs Through It, which weren't even nominated? Everyone· is a critic, everyone who sees a film makes a value judgement, and typically this movie does not rank among the others which have ascended to that lofty echelon. Compare 'Citizen Kane, and The Godfather, a11d Dances with Wolves. You have to give Clint Eastwood credit, though, in having enough pull to get this picture made. The four other best picture nominees were all created by smaller, independent studios. For one man to push a project thro11gh the formula- oriented large studios and the Hollywood beauracy is quite an achievement, no matter how you look at it. And so was the plot. It's about time we rooted for the bad guy. Hell, everyone was a bad guy, so we had no choice. To some people, this manipulation of the audience might be construed as offensive, but I cont. on page 7 OUR OSCARS AND THE ACEDEMY'S Best Supporting Actress: Were nominated: . Marisa Tomei, My Cousin Vinny Mkanda Richardson. Damage Vanessa Redgrave, How.ards Fnd Joan Plowright, Enchanted April Judy Davis, Husbands and Wives Should have been nominated: Marisa Tomei, My Cousin Vinny Miranda Richardson, Damage Vanessa Redgrave, Howards End Joan Plowright, Enchanted April Madeline Stowe, The Last of the Mohicans Best Supporting Actor: Were Nominated: Gene Hackman, Unjorgiven AI Pacino, Glengarry Glen Ross David Paymer, Mr. Saturday Night lack Nicholson. A Few Good Men Jaye :Davidson, The Crying Game Should have been nominated: Gene Hackman, Unforgiven AI Pacino, Glengarry Glen Ross David Paymer, Mr. Saturday Night . Jack Nicholson, A Few Good Men Forest Whittaker, The Crying Game Best Actress: Were Nominated: Catherine Deneuve, Indochine Mary McDonnelJ, Passion Fish Michelle Pfeiffer, Love Field Susan Sarandon. Lorenzo's Oil Emma Thompson, Howards End Best Actor: Were Nominated: Stephen Rea, The Crying Game Clint Eastwood, Unforgiven Denzel Washington. Malcolm X AJ.Pacino, Scent of a Woman R<>bert Downey Jr., Chaplin ~I:Iouid have been nominated:· Stephen Rea, 1he Crying Gm1e Clint Eastwood, Unforgiven Denzel Washington, Malcolm X AI Pacino~ Scent of a Woman Tim Robbins, Bob Roberts Best Director Were nominated: Robert Altman, The Player James Ivory, Howards End Clint Eastwood, Unforgiven Martin Brest, Scent of a Woman Neil Jordan, The Crying Game Silould have been nominated: Robert Altman, The Player James Ivory, Howards End Robert Redford, A River Runs 11ll'ough It SJ)ike Lee, Malcolm X Roo Reiner, A Few Go<>d Men cont. on page 1 I \ I I l I .,

OlaurJJr nf.eusi.a ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT AprilS, 1993, page 7 ARTIST FRANCIS MCDONALD COMING TO EXPLAIN AND DEMONSTRATE ENCAUSTIC PAINT by Ned Walley Editor in Chief What's rich, luscious and. easy? Extensively used by ancient Greeks and Egyptians, .encaustic painting still offers many seductive possibilities to modem artists. Francis McDonald, a native of Lookout Mtn •. , Tennessee now .Jiving and working in New York, has been concentrating on encaustics ever since she was first introduced to the medium more than ten years ago~ Describing her introduction to encaustics, McDonald stated, \I was immediately seduced by the illusion of depth it added to any surface.\ She also stressed that its versatility was its primary virtue since colors, textures, and shapes can be manipulated endlessly, thus creating an infinite amount of outcomes. Encaustic was first used by ·the Greeks and Egyptians, followed by some 18th century muralists, and more recently by Jasper Johns. E·ven though encaustics are barely used today, they are probably the PLASTIC SPURS !found it refreshing. James Conrad would have loved it. Read Genesis- there was darkness before there was light, and Eastwood compounded William Munny's character with it. The most glaring errors in this year's proceedings: Although Marisa Tomei was excellent in My Cousin Vinny, the Oscar should have gone to Miranda Richardson in Oamage. The nomination of J aye Davidson for Best Supporting Actor for The Crying Game instead of Forest Whittaker was preposterous. In my opinion, the movie lost it's toueh when tlle venue moved to London. Fergus was 'outstal\ding, but Dill didn't have me fooled for a secon<I;. Jaye Davidson couldn't act his way out of a styrofoam cup. Hackman has been better in other movies~ (No Way Out, Mississippi Burning), and not been recognized. Nicholson, who was a lit fuse in A Few Good Men, helped propel the movie to the top of the heap this year, and should have received the Best Supporting Actor Oscar. The nominees · for Best Actress were all strong, but I think Susan Sarandon should ,have squeaked by Emma Thompson for the statue. Best Actor was also a strong category, but I wouldn't have given the Oscar. to Pacino. In my opinion, Tim Robbins should have been nominated over Robert Downey Jr. and Denzel Washington should have taken the Award. In the Best Director category, Marty Brest arid Neil Jordan had no business being nominated ahead of Rob Reiner most pennanent medium since they don't yellow, fade, crack, or peel. An example of their durability is the vibrancy still retained in the 2,000 year old encaustic paintings inside the Egyptian pyramids. The word encaustic \PEACHES\, Charcoal on Paper originated from the Greek word enkaiein, which means \to burn in.\ With painting it refers to the process of heating the surface of a beeswax painting to solder its particles together. Unlike oils, encaustic is never wet or dry but in a liquid state when molten. It solidifies as it cools, but can be reheated any ·number of times to modify and Spike Lee. Spike should get an award simply for being the first to get a film crew into the holy city of Mecca. Reiner is just plain tremendous, with an undefeated string of hits, (This is Spinal Tap, The Princess Bride, When Harry Met Sally, The Sure Thing and Misery. to name a few), he's obviously doing something right. Best picture was the most screwed up category, with three of five nominees which were only three star or \good\ movies. Missing from the list were The Player, Lorenzo's 0 i 1, .and A River Runs Through It, with Bob Roberts, Damage and The Lover not far behind. A Few Good Men should have come away with the title this year. with some huge competition from Howard's End. For those of us who look forward to the Oscars every year, this one proved to be a particularly fruitless one. The Academy is being swayed by a wave of political correctness, and a growing tendancy to take itself too seriously. I look forward to a year where the top seeds are as promising as this years Final Four, not as lame as last year's Presidential ~dates. THE OSCARS cont from page 6 Best Picture: · ·Were nominated: The Crying Game A Few Good Men HowardsEne Scent of a Woman Unjorgiven Should have been nominated: A Few Good Men A River R11ns Through It Howards End Lorenw's Oil The Player KEY: . Won an Oscar Should have won an ·oscar 3 Bedroom apartment $350/week +utilities Downtown Schenectady Call Sa yah at 434-3901 ATTENTION PHOTOGRAPHERS: Co n co r d i e n sis is. looking for photographers. You don't have to be a professional, we don't discriminate. If you like to take pictures we can teach you how to use the darkroom to develop and print your own pictures. If you are interested please contact Brianna Patnode at 386~ . 4181 (bolt 1594 ). by Tad Lee Concordiemes Sra.ff color or texture. Ms. McDonald will be coming to Union Wednesday April 14 to give a presentation on encaustics. She will also be bringing materials so those in attendance will have the opportunity to expmiment with wax for themselves. Her presentation will be held in room 210 of the Arts building at 2:30. It will be followed by a demonstration in the .print studio on the first floor. Please feel free to come at any time to find out more about encaustics. simply boring. Even the love story which I can only assume was the basis of the movie, was both predictable and dull I should have tru~ted my from the very beginning. original assumption that \Born Towards the end of the movie Yesterday\ would not be a good when I thpught it couldn't get movie. However even my any worse. Melanie Griffith's original assumption did not \I am a woman hear me roar\ prepare me for tile W()fst two . speech, was echoed by lrours of celluloid that I have Goodman's lawyer who said, \I seen in years. LOVE that woman.\ It felt as Perhaps the combouation of though National Lampoon was Don Johnson and ·Melanie in on this movie. Griffith screamed loud enough If you have seven and a half to make me apprehensive, but I dollars to waste and you want was drawn in by the reputation to see John Goodman, go rent of John Goodman, and.adesire \Raising Arizona\ and buy to laugh. I did not laugb once, some Raisinets or something. except at the end whe11 I joked . If you want to see Melanie with a friend about wilat we Griffith and don Johnson, buy could have done with the seven The Enquirer. At least the dollars we had wasted. stories in there aren't as The plot was a politically embarassing as their roles in based Pretty Womalk. The \Born Yesterday.\ movie was poorly written and Rough, but true. ·, · . Top·1o ·Mo\lles· _· · 1. Teenage Mutant Ninja T11rtles m starring Paige TUfCO 2. Point of No Retarn B-ridget Fonda 3. Married To It Cybill SIJe:pherd 4. The Opposite Sex Kevin Pollak S. Falling Down Michael Douglas 6. The Crying Game StepiJe:n Rea 7. CB4 The Movie 8. Groundhog Day Bill Murray 9. Mad Dog and Glory Bill Mur- ray 10. Fire in the Sky ==~=~Earn $«iiQll+/'1'1eek in camneri(:S or $4,000+/monlli on fisltillg · boats. Free Transportation I Room & Board! No experience n~e.ssary. Mate or Female. For employment prog, c:all: ( 206) 545·4155 ext. A5188· Tap·1:0 $ingles··.': · I. Whitney Houston 'Tm Every Woman,\ (Arista) Last Week: No. 1 2. Ugly Kid Joe MCat's In The Cradle,\ (Stardog/Mercury) No. 3 3. SWV ~rm So Into You, .. (RCA) No.5 4. V.'_.anessa Williams/Brian Mc- Knight .. Love Is,\ (Giant) No.6 S. Paperboy \Ditty (Next PlateaujPLG) No. 11 6. P.M. Dawn ... Looking Patient Eyes,\ (Gee Street/Is- land/PLG) No.7 7. Jon Secada .. Angel,\ (SBK/ERG) No. 11 S. IceCuhe\'It Was A Good Day, (Priority) No. 10 9. R.E.M. \Man On The Moon, (Warner) No. 12 10. Run-D.M.C. \Down With The King,\ (Profile) No. 18

Founded at Union College 1877 Srhcncclndy, Nt•V Yol'k April 8, 1993 Editors-in-Chief Executive Editor News Editors News Analysis Editor Features Editors Layout Editors Copy Editor Arts Editors Sports Editor Business & Finance Editor Science & Technology Editor World News Editor Advertising Editors Campus News Editor Photo Editor David Levine, Ned Walley! Deb Mclnemey Matt Karlyn, Caroline Paine · Veronica Rogers Doug Bartell, Erin O'Neil Lisa Lemoi, Buffy Rubenstein Heather Reynolds ' Bel·inda Crago, Niki Goldin, Talley Belsinger Dagan La Corte · · Dylan Ratigan Eileen Colkin Craig Greenberg Sbaron Smith, Fran Goldstein ' JOdie Adams Jenny Poldmets Brianna Patnode SOLUTIONS TO SECURITY PROBLEMS : IT'S IN THE STUDENTS' HANDS It is trul~ a shame that students at Union College cannot feel · ~e on_ thetr own campus. Students are mostly to blame for the ·•. msecunty that many of their peers feel at Union. This insecurity exten~s b.eyond fear of physical abuse to a fear of property . vandalization. ; On Saturday night, a lot of cars parked in Fox Lot and other . campus parking lots, were vandalized. Most of the;e cars had their tail-lights smashed. Campus security has hypothesized that the ~~ag.e was caused by drunken Union students. The admmistration, as reported by Concordiensis, has been faced with making restrictions on alcohol consumption on campus as a result of in~idents fr?m the past few years. Although SUNY- ALBANY IS seven times larger than Union College in student enrollment,_ they have fewer cases of vandalism and crime. Many people beheve that the high crime rate is due to the relative avail~bility _of alcohol.. For the ~e of providing a sense of se~unty for Its students, tile administration may be forced to make this a dry campus Union parents would not be upset about such a decision a~inistrators lives would be made easier, professors would not object, but you can rest a sure that Union students will be outraged. If students want the privilege of consuming alcohol on campus, then they should protect this privilege by not going . ()Verboard when they drink, and by making sure that fellow 1 students do not violate people or their property. If students · cannot handle this responsibility, then the administration in the vested interest of protecting students, should make thi~ a dry campus. Students have been given ample warning of the consequences of engaging in reckless behavior. An alternative to banning alcohol on campus as a means to stop crime is to increase the number of security guards available . to pr~tect students _and ~eir property. This may involve having a · sec~ty guard sta.f:ioned m some of the larger parking lots during . · the mght, or havmg more guards parole the entrances to this campus. Adding more employees would increase tuition, but most students would willingly accept such an increase if their were no additional restrictions on alcoh()l consumption. It is also possible that much of the vandalism that has occurred· has be.en perpetrated by non -students. This campus is readily accesstble to any individual, and thus it is hard to assess blame to students alone for the high crime rate. Schenectady has its sbare of crime, and its is possible that local residents are responsible for some of the vandalism. It see~s logical to incre~ the security force for the time being, to prov1de more protectiOn to students. This allows the administration to assume that some of the crimes were not committed by students under the influence of alcohol. In addition . if a student_ engages in criminal activity, there is a greater chance· that they will be apprehended. Students who are concerned about · safety on this campus, as well as having their privileges revoked should. support such a policy, because the next step is something that will make a lot of students regret not having suggested an increased security force. ..• Associate Photo Editors Associate Editor Opinions columnist Senior Editorial Advisors Senior Financial Advisor Senior Sports Advisors Subscription Manager Computer Manager Josh Haines, Scott Steele David Fischer BethLifson Ed Walley, Lara Chamberlain PamLeinson Hal Poret, Rich Morgar Matt Grabowski Brett Saunders Staff Writers : Michelle Ellis, Chris Ringwald, Mirriam Seddiq, ~y Cypress, Craig Pike, Dass Seaman, Alexis Leist Ale~ Kresller, Thor Benander, Cindy Hills, Lee Schachter, Greg Kaltsh, Bruno Benzaquen, Ron Birnbaum, Tasha Labare, Alissa, Gass, Alex Kreisler. Should tke ~$. send food and ~money to countries with starving populations while many Amencans are stanring as, well? Mail letters to Box 2577. Due 4/12 at 5p.m. -OPINIONS Multiculturalism and Union: Are We Left Behind? by Beth M. Lifson Opinions Columnist Last year, on the frrst day of my required freshman history class, my professor made a comment that left a great impression upon me. He told us that the pUI]lOse of a Liberal Arts education is to prepare students to be able to speak well at a cocktail party. I was appalled at this notion at first, defensive of my $23,000/ year education that, according to my professor, was going to amount to nothing more than a few witty comments about Plato's sexual orientation aimed to impress similarly educated (or should I say uneducated?) people. That idea highly conflicted with my academic goals upon entering Union. I came to Union to be challenged, to be enlightened, and to be pushed to my intellectual limit in order to prepare for the \real world\ I would enter in four short years. Well, I am now a sophomore, and by degrees I have become aware that my professor was not so far off base in his analysis ()f the curriculum here at Union. The focus on Western culture and civilization does not push students to grow and expand their horizons, but rather encloses them within the walls of Anglo- ethnocentricity and nearsightedness. The myopic conservatism that pervades all aspects of our community does not nurture students to reach the potential for which Western humanism strives. It stifles them to remain within the confines of wbat has been deemed suitable \general\ (meaning Western) educational material. Most of us are aware of the changes that have been taking place throughout our world in recent times, and we are in no way immune to those changes. With the fall of Communism in Eastern Europe, the struggle in the Balkans, the tragic bambing of the World Trade Center, and the NAFfA trade agreements it has become apparent that a wave of change is SW'eeping across our globe, and we can no longer be secure of &ur place in it. Latin American, African, Asian, and Middle Eastern countries have Shown us that they, too play an integral part in the shaping of our global community. The face of our own nation is .chllllging as well, and by the year 2,(X)() half our pc>pulation will oo people of of color. It is obvi()us that the concerns of the global community are drastically different from those of tw-enty or even ten years ago, :and with these changes our l'Ole as an institution is evolving. The new climate of the world is one of growing diversity. multiculturalism, and global interdependence. To meet these changes and to prepare ·us to adapt to our changing roles, Union C()llege must adapt as well. The \Maroon Bubble\ must 'be burst in order to meet the challenge of this new world'. This is necessary in order to prepare the students already matriculated at Union, as well as to attract the the contemporary student of future classer;. The student that has emer!!ed as a result of the global chang.es that have occmed bas ideas and interests far bey-Ond the borders of their own nation. Students must be nurtured to pursue these interests in an environment that meets the demands of the new global climate. This is the challenge that Union must take head on. We must a-dapt and evolve as a moder11 institution that deals with modern issues in academia. If this challenge is not met, Union will be left behind as the world takes off in a new direction. One ,way in which to adapt Union to meet the needs of the contemporary student is by changing the internal ~tructure of the institution. Proposals have been made to the Union administration urging for a change in the curriculum that would meet these demands. The Academic Affairs Council Subcouncil on Inclusiveness in the Curriculum has proposed for a series of long and short term changes that would aid students in reaching one of Union's overall goals as an institution-- of leading students \to be contributing members of the larger communities of which they are a part\ (as defined by the Report of the AAC Subcouncil on Inclusivesness in the Curriculum). As mentioned before, this \larger community\ has changed dramatically, and the proposals of the Subcouncil aim to meet those changes. The African and Latino Alliance of Students has also made a proposal to the administration. They have, amongst other demands, proposed the incorporation of a Non-Western History Track to the General Education Curriculum along with a Human Diversity Seminar. This could be accomplished within the existing structure of the institution and would give students a broader base of knowledge with which to understand and participate in the global community. There have been no decisions reached in the implementation of these proposals. It is of dire necessity that the administration is aware of the importance of this issue to all members of the Union College community. In ()rder for each of us to fully engage in the pursuit of knowledge and to depart from Union as educated people able to participate in the ·\real world\ these changes must be implemented. If these changes are not made, Union would fail to fulfill one of it's most important responsibilities to it's students.

- -· us on a tat he :il in ~d lrt id [)f m ts )[ Jf lS 1e n e d ~r d ts 0 0 e ' .. ' '• a ) l l 1 r f Changing Union For the Better To the editor. Over the past two te:rms much discussion has been raised over issues such as the honor code, the social policy, the lack of community and numerous other problems that plague the campus .. Now, in the third and final term of the year, I believe that i~ is time for students to take action and establish themselves as a vocal and active voice on campus. The entire student body needs to work together to make Union a strong academic institution with numerous social opportunities for everyone. It is our responsibilities, as the students of Union College, to take the initiative, to ban together not only with one another, but with the faculty as well, to elevate Union to meet its potential. It is true that Union has a lot to offer the student body, yet recently tllat can easily be forgotten. We need to raise the academic level of excellence. at Union, and diminish the high rate of cheating. Perhaps installing an honor code is a step in the right direction. I am aware that an honor code may not alleviate the cheating problem all together, however. I do believe that it will encourage the students to take their academics more seriously. We need to reinstate the academic aura into the college, to commend students for producing their own material and receiving good grades. We need to encourage students to go that extra step for the higher grade or take the harder course, and as a result the academic institution will greatly benefit. For Union to meet its potentiai it needs to reform other areas of the community other than the academic environment. We need to expand the social opportunities beyond the fraternity bar rooms. The students need to take advantage of the concerts, lectures, the pubs, and Feto Ho11se. They need to create mo-1e campus-wide activities, sueh as the all school formal, in which the entire social spectrum is not only repiesented, but enjoying one anotber's company in ~ non- thue!ltening environment. · Just as the :students need to feel corn fortable in their sur:roundings, they need the assl.lfance that their every move i~ n~t being monitored by the ad111iaistration. We need to elirni11ate the administration's tllecry that we rue all guilty until proven innocent. Rather, we .are students, not tuition checl.s, and we deserve the Chalice to be treated like adults. We-have all acknowledged that these problems exist, and novrv it is time for us to take acti()Il. r urge you, fellow stude11ts• to work together and help Union reach its potential. Amy B. Blumstein, '94 Defense of Chinese Curricllium · To the' editor: 1 an writing in response to Aimee Rodewald's letter to the edit<Jr, entitled \Course Ch&ices are Lacking\. I must say tllat :[ was very offended by some. of the things that she saill. Half of Aimee's article was s:pent on \making fun\ and \putting down\ the Chinese lang11age and culture. What does she mean tbat the only . clas·s available was \Advanced Chinese for Economics Maj~rs\ and that it was taught ·by her roommate who has never taken Chinese before? Fi:rs1 of all, Union has a very qualified Chinese professor. Second of all, Aimee can't even take Advanced Cllinese is she hasnlt taken Basic Chinese I, • so wily is she even considering it? As a Chinese-American, I was 'fery angry that Aimee had to belittle the Chinese Iangu2ge and culture in order to expre:ss her dissatisfaction with the <1ourse selections. I found her mcasm very distasteful, For the bicentenni-al: Bypass the~ Sentinel, Work for Concordi; The oldest, and still the best - newspaper on campus. Tuesdays at 4 p.m., cc 303 I ' Submissions : All submissions tc Concordiensis are due the 1 Tuesday before publication at 4PM if tlley are submitted on Macintosh Microsoft Work Disks. Otlle1W1se all submissions are due Monday by 4PM m ihe drop box Ollbside ofthe Coocordiensis ,.Office on the third floor.of the CollegeCe.nter. . Concordiensis is published nine Tllursdays a tenn by the- .· student body. of Union College, Schellectady, New York 12308; • ·Subscription mte: $40 per year~ delive~d anywhere in the United ·. Sta~s. Mail subscriptions t() Box #25/7. College Cellter, Union • College. Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press · (IP), Office Telephone (518) 370-61SS, Advertising Telephone . (518) 370~6494. . . . . LETTERS especially when she mentioned the stereotypical image of digging a bole to get to the Orient and how she has to go to China over spring break just to gain some background. She even concluded her letter on that thought, If she had a Chinese friend, would she stiU say some of these sarcastic and disrespectful comments? ~ I encourage Aimee to be more sensitive and careful in what she says in the future. I also Hope she'll be more open in learning about China's rich culture and language. Perhaps she'll find it more interesting than she thinks. Linda Lin, '94 Thank You Mountebanks To the editor: For the cast and crew of Mountebanks, It is not my custom to write \blanket\ thank you notes. I know that praise and thanks are most valued when issued separately, recognizing each contributor for their particular merit and excellence. In the case of project Tempest, I feel compelled to take this route. The loss of any one particular actor, technician, or stage band, would have diminished the strength and impact of the production. Together your 'performance, hard work, and expertise created a fabric woven as tight as the finest silk . I studied my program, identifying people I knew, making mental notes trying to seek out those wonderful thespians with whom I was not familiar and tried very hard Saturday night to thank each and every one of you I could find. The bottom line is, you wov~ ·a flawless illusion transporting your audience to your wonderful island. Your characterizations and your sophisticated technical contribution created a magnificent theatrical event. The intellectual challenges you presented to the audience were stimulating. As much .as I love the Nott, I can't wait to see what you will do when given a real theater. Thank you for a wonderful evening. Janet R. Gray Dining Services More Thought on the Honor Code To the editor: Cheating or dishonest academic behavior is not infrequent on campus. Last semester, the student forum sponsored a Town Meeting to discuss the possibility of creating an honor code for Union College. Of the more than sixty students present. none _could affirm that they had never cheated themselves, or knew someone who had not cheated at Union. Supporting the implementation of an honor code means more than a signature pledging oneself to academic honesty. It entails supporting a change in the overall academic environment at the college. An honor code, in any variation, would affirm a moral commitment to maintaining a rewarding academic experience. · People are caught up in the technicalities of what an honor code would mean. Some seemed more concerned with having to sign their name (arguing that it is an insult to their integrity) or the possibility of having to turn in their friends than with the underlying premise of what honor and honesty mean. People should not cheat. It is unacceptable. It is wrong. It is unfa'ir. We need to be intolerant of students who use 1 illegitimate methods of I completing. their assignments or taking their exams. We can not tolerate students who are hardly working while others are working hard. Individuals who cheat are hurting themselves, of course, but they are also diminishing the quality of AprilS, 1993, page 9 academic life at Unjon. A signature reinforces one's commitment to honesty and integrity. Turning in your friends should not be the issue. because your friends should not cheat. We need to change the academic atmosphere at Union. The central idea of an honor code is to establish a community of trust. It would be created by the student body and could also be administered by the members of the student body. An honor code should set fourth an uncompromising commitment to high academic standards, performance, and individual responsibility. I can't urge you enough to welcome the idea. Respectfully submitted, Karen Hurwitz '93 On behalf of the entire Concordien-sis staff, David Levine would like to thank all of the seniors who devoted their time and effort towards our relentless pursuit of keeping the students of ·:. · Union College informed. A special thanks to three individuals whose thorough devotion to Conc~rdiensis have led to vast improvements in the newspaper .. .Ned Walley PamLeinson Lara Chamberlain . We are indebted for all that you have. done and promised to do in _ the upcoming weeks. rGood luck in the future ..

AprilS, 1993 1 page 10 BUSINESS OJrutrorllittt.sis COORS JUST WENT KOSHER ' • by Dylan J. Ratigan and Christ~pher W. Richards Business Editor putpose of getting rich. The vehicle which is driving our established institutions is greed The kosher food ,industry, which was a 1.2.5 biUion industry in 1988, has exploded to nearly 2 1 billion dollars in 1992, with nearly hal.£ of the annual profits being Jlenerated during the week pr~ceding Passover. placing kosher 'labels on i!heir products. For llll ;those Jewi:;h drinkers, Coo-ts' ju&t w~ent · kosher! What was once a very select market now knows no limitations. Once catering to the religious individual, this ideal has now been transformed to appeal to the mainstream supennadcet shopper. Nietzsche was correct in saying that there will· be a complete disintegration of all morals and ethics in the twentieth cent11ry. -It's frightening to observe the precision with which he pegged our society. One tends to 'forget that we live in a capitalistic society in which the nature of the beast will always prevail. America's underlying concern is to make money. Pure and simple. Cozy advertising by marketing firms have only one •bing in mind. SelL..sell ... sell! We are being victimized and manipulated by our own religions. The f11ndamental l)rinciples of morality which our society rests on are being exploited for the primary \The fundamental principles whic:h our society rests upon are being exploited for ·the primary purpose of getting rich.\ Case in point. The 3,000 year old history of kosher foods, an integral as:pect of Judaism's religious framework, has been degraded to nothing more than a cheap marketing scheme. Targeting specialty food markets has been the most lucrative growth market of the past decade. When the chairman of the board hears specialty food markets, the first thing out of his mouth is kosher. One can be fairly !:ure that the number of Jewish converts in the past 'four year~ simply cannot account for this phenomenal increase in sales. One must look to advertisers to understand why this explosion has occured. Take a look in any · kosher food aisle (assuming that it all fits in one aisle) and you'll find allell of a lot m<lre than gefilte fish. We're talking \cheeseburgers\ that are actually fish patties topped with faux cheese, and imitati<ln crab and sllrimp. Is your child or friend a ~napple addict or a sucker for Pe7. candy? Well don't worry, helps on the way. Both manufacturers have started ''Judaism's re~igious · :framework has been degtaded in-to nothing more than a cheap 111rarketing scheme.\ That famiilia.r orange and' green packa;g.Lnjg has l)een junked in fa.vor of a more \modern\ loOtk~ The market has expanded to it:,clude kosher frozen g.OU1111(.lt oinners, ~UP\ soup etc... E\Jeu good -old Frank Perdue ~D.s under fiire. Empire · Ko:slie:r Poultry countered Franl:~scatchy s[qgan by retaliating YNith the remade tl1at \It takes an even touglher man to male a k0 sher chicken.\ Kristin Schrader-Frechette Distinguished Research Professor Department of Philosophy & Center for Urban Ecology University of South Florida Tuesday, April13, 1993 Preserving Rare Species & Threatened Habitats: The Florida Panther and Othe.r Cases. 8:00p.m. College Center Auditorium The lecture is free and open to the members of the campus community. This lecture is sponsored by the Environmental Studies Society and Philosophy Fo0:rum ***** Thursday, April IS, 1993 Have We Really Consented to Pollution and to Other Environmental Threats ? ·3:45p.m. Humanities Rm. 019 The l€<:ture is free and open to the members of the campus comn1unity. This lecture is being sponsored the Philosophy D-epartment Our supermarkets have become, religious warehouses. The recent bo.om in kosher foods cannot be credited to a return to religious morals~ b11t simply an exploitation by deviant marketeers. While some may derive pleasure in tb.e fact that . almost anything they buy may carry a kosher label, one must be sadd,ened by the fact that the ideals·that were the foundation of the kosher food market had to be abandoned in order to achieve the current state. Unfortunately, this abandonment of ideals was necessary in order to provide a catalyst for growth in an otherwise declining foods industry. CDC UPDATE Monday, Apri/5 •Career Observation Days Sign-ups - all week •I ohn Hancock Interviews Tuesday, April 6 •Merck Info Session 7 pm •Resume Crisis Center 7 pm Wednesday, Apri/7 •Merck: Interviews oResume Crisis Center •J unior Jumpstart 7 pm Thursday, Apri/8 ~Westinghouse Interviews IMPORTANT WORKSHOP Junior Jumpstart Don't be left out in the cold! Get the facts on senior year recruiting and job search techniques. Spend some time getting to know your CDC in a relaxed and informal atmosphere. Refreshments will be served. Ask the questions you want and get the answers you need to get a Jumpstart on your career search. Students taking tenns abroad will find extra value in getting information for Winter .programs with Fall term deadlines. WHAT'S NEWS Internship News Bank of New York New York City Tbe Environmental Planning ·Lobby Job News Korean Interculture Servius GREEKS & CLUB.S ' ' . ' . : $~,000 A~ -~·~~~Rr· · .Each member: of your frat. · sorority. team. club ... etc. · · pitches in just one hour and.your Qroup can.raise . S1 .. 0QO in 1ust a few days! · . Plus· a chance to earn $1,000 .for y~urselfl No- cost. No obligation. ·::· . 1·800·932~0528. exl •. 65 ' . . .

ill.aurDr!lieusia SCIENCE :& TE-CHNOLOGY AprilS, 1993, page 11 The Common Cold: -~~-·A~·· Second Opinion by Frank M. R:eff, RPh arowsiness. ln fact, it is found Contributing Writer in many sleep-aids. r am writing today in response to the ru-ticle \The Common Cold: A Definition and Remedies,\ by Bruno Benzaquen. I am glad to see that the Concot:diensis is publishing artictes on a common health problem, but I feel the section on the actual cold remedies gave some misleading information and neglected other inf(I)rmation. I would like to add some of that info:FI1lation. As the artide stated, the common cold is a viral infection. As witll other viral infections. there is no real cure. except time. The so caned 'cold remedies' merely alleviate some of the symptoms of the cold (such as the cough, sore throat, nasaJ congestion, and aches I pains.) These remedies contain one or more of the following groups of chemicals; Antitussives, Expectorants, Antihistamines, Decongestants, and Analgesics/Antipyretics. The Antitussives are more commonly known as cough suppressants. They are used to reduce the frequency of a cough, especially when it is dry or nonproductive. If a cough is productive (removing phlegm or other 'Secreti<ms from the respiratory tract), the use of an Antitussive may inhibit the body's own healing meehanisms. However, if a productive cough·is interfering with sleep, the .use of an Antitussive at bedtime would be appropriate. Codeine is the Gold Standard of Antitussives., but since you cannot get it without a prescription, we are left with two major choices; Dextromethorph an and Diphenhydramine. Dextromethorphan i~ generally found in products ending in 'DM' such as Robitussin-DM, Triaminic-DM, an<! Benylin- DM. Diphenllydramine (Benadryl) is also an excellent Antit.ussive although chemically it acts as an Antihistamine. Like other Antihistamines, ~ Diphenhydramine may cause . The next class of cltemicals are t)le Expectorants. It is believed. that the Expectorants break: down the mucus/phlegm and make it easier for01ebody to remove by coughing. This may or may not be the: case, but in reality, many cough Syrups contain these ingredients. Guaifen~sin is probably the n:.>st common agent used and is fo11nd in ·products like Robitu:;sin. Some other Expectora11ts are camphor, eucalyptus oil, ipecac syrup, menthol, pine w-, and turpentine oil. A metb.o<l that is far more .practical and cheaper is to drink plenty of fluids -at leru;t six to eig~t glasses of water a day. The next major class are the Antihis~ines. · The~ .agents block the effects of Histamine on the body. Histamines are generally released in reSJ)Onse to allergies or tissue damage (t·rauma or infection.) Histamines cause sm()oth muscles to relax, including bloOd vesseJs which allows for fluid to accumulate (edema and congestion) in areas that llave a great deal of blood flow such as the nose. These agent$ llave many side effects including drowsiness (be care fiJI when driving or Consuming alcohol), dry mouth and, constipation. These agents are comm()nly. combined with Deco11gestants which may minimize the amount of drowsiness. Some of the more c<>m.mon Antihistamines used ,include Diphenhydramine (Benadryl), Doxylamine (NYQtJIL), Chlorphenir~~irie (Chlor- Trimeton), and Brompheniramine (Dimetapp). It is interesting to note that Chlorpheniramine and Bt:ompheniramine are less Likely to cause drowsiness, but caution must still be used. Another group of agents used are the Decongestallts. These agents constrict blood vessels. Because of this, people with high blood pressure must use extreme care. By constricting tile Mood vessels, these agents redtu:e the blood flow to areas such as the 1993-1994 7 BEDROOiVI HOUSE Large bedrooms, 2 tv1odern nose .and teduce tile edema I congestion. This tends to imJ)r()ve drainage and relieve the n.asal stuffiness. These agents are u~ed botll topically and orally. Topical application tends to give relief very quick1y, and minim·izes the side effects. If ·these agents are used for more than three or four days at a time, a condition caHed Rebound Congestion (Rhinitis Medicamemtosa) will normally result. Generally, the longer acting agents such as Oxyrnetazoline (Afrin 12 Hour)! and Xylometazoline (Otrivin) are preferable. Other common agents. are Phenylephrine (Neo- Synep,hrine) and Naphazoline (Pri vine}. The oral Decomgestants tend to have more side effects mch as insomnia (especially Phenylpropanolamine), and the aggravati<>n of disease states such as hypertension and diabetes. The two most commonty used oral Dec();n gestants are Pseud-oephedrine (Sudafed) and Phenylpropanolamine (Triaminic and Contac.) • The last major ;group of chemicals used in cough and cold remedies are the Antipyretics (reduce fever) I Analgesics (pain relievers). The mllst<:ommon agents.here are Aspirin (Bayer). Acetaminophen (Tylenol), and Ibupmfea (Advil, Nuprin, Motrin.) We have all used these before, so I won't comme11t further on them. As I :have already mentioned, cold remedies only treat the sympt()ms. To find out which remed~ is right for you, consider what your symptoms are, and find a product that treats those specific symptoms. You can buy a combination product for added convenience, but ycm may be taking medications that you don't need. By reading the list of ingredients and understanding what tile ingredients do, you can find a product or .combine products to treat your cold symptoms. These agents won't cure y()llf cold, bu:t they can make it rnore bearable. bathrooms, I\tlodern Kitchen, All appliances Large deck, Closets galore!! included~ \A 21 year student tradition~' 1 370-5498 leave messaee ~ ( 3 +4 bedroom apartments also available) POSITIONS AVAILABLE SUMMER OR NOW $9G10/hr. or commission. Advertising sales. Sal~s.experie~ce helpful but not necessary. Tra1n1ng provlded. Work close to Union. Car recommended. Call Steve Gorman at (800)798-3000 for details & applic~tion. METRO MARKETING GROUP NFS Grant A warded New York State Museum Courtesy of State Ed. Dept. State University of New York ALBANY, N.Y.- The future of one of the most important research collections of botanical specimens in America is secure, thanks to a grant for $67,000 recently awarded by the National Science Foundation to the New York State Museum. The collection contains mere than 83,000 examples of American mushrooms, plant diseases and decay organisms. :Begun more than 100 years ago by 19th century botanist, Charles Peck, the collection is a major research tool. It contains more than 3500 critical, early 'type' ~pecimens, making it one of the most important collections of American fleshy fungi anywhere. A type specimen is the permanent standard for understanding a species. Charles Peck was America's first professional mycologist and a central figure in the study of American fungi during his tenure at the State Museum from 1868 to 1915. The NSF grant will allow researchers at the New York State Museum to create a computer catalog of information on the type specimens using Peck's letters and field notes from the coHection. The Museum will also replace old container!'~ and prcseJYe deteriorating specimen labels. These efforts will make the collection more accessible to researchers and preserve the specimens for future study. The collection is currently used by researchers worldwide. Specimens have been loaned to scientists in universities and research institutes in Germany. Australia, Mexico, Spoain. France, Estonia. Fin lnnrl and Czechoslovakia among other countries. Researchers at the U.S. Forest Service in Madison, Wisconsin are among those in this country who ilave relies upon the collectio11 for their research. USDA researchers in Peoria. Illinois have recently isolated DNA from the 114-year-old type specimen of the \black morel\ mushroom from the collection. These efforts may eventually lead to the development of this species as a commercially valuable gounnet food item. The two-year project is under the direction of Dr. John Haines, mycologist with the New York State Museum's Biological Survey. Dr. Partha Banerfee. a recent graduate of Southern Illinois Universjty, . will be working with Dr. Haines. .)\1\t<IIII!J:; WOK~ U? l!'l A CoL{) SwGAT 81-l~ ~M~M6ef(t:D 6,0it-lb, 1lJ A fMr'( -rl-l~ Ntt;,Hf f#Oet AN()

AprilS, 1993, page 12 Plenty Alexis Leist Features Writer of Pet the woman in fmnt of me lhas three very small, very annoying children and the guy behind ~e is at least seventy years old and keeps asking me what the signs say. By the way, what a way to organilze, once you get to the front of the line you bave to go to the back of another line. The clerks are usually crabby too. By the time I get out of there, half :the day is gone and I feel as if ['ve been through a battle. FEATURE.S Peeves one thing to say- Why? Obviously, these people only care about appearances. I just don~t understand,. when they're hanging with friends, they never smoke. The minute they get to a party, they light one up. Hel'lo! 'They even say \I need a butt.\ No, you don't need a butt, you just want to look cool. P.S. You don't. Boring Sunday · Miche1le Rosenbaum Featuref writer Sundays always seem to be tile longest dayr; of the week. N e matter how late you wake ; up they just never seem to end. You have piles of work ·to do, yet you're usuaU')' so tired it takes you an bour to do sounds interesting to do! . Everyone has pet peeves. I happen to be one of the few who has more then the average amount of pet peeves. I've written about some of them before. Not that I've counted them or anything, but last night before I went to sleep I thought about all of them, and believe me I had nightn)ares! But, since I don't want to bore you with a list of at least a thousand I will just give you my top ten. Here it goes. 2.Gas station attendants- f~rst of all, they never understand the amount I ask for. Then, I'll walk back tOo my car and they forget to tum on the g.as .. I'll walk back and ask them· politely and they look at me as if I'm crazy. Tbey insist tlhat. it's turned on. TIIey take th·eir. job very seriously, but I thLnlc all the gas fumes probably 4.Brenda on Beverly Hills 90210- She's obnoxious, bitchy, whiny, snobby and what's with all the black lately? Devil Worship? . · something that should take five All of us remember playing board games. So .jf it's disgusting weather outsidej11st get a bunch of friends and play .... \Monopoly.\ The garne could take all of two S un<lays to finish! However, if it is a beautiful, sunny spring day how about playing a huge game of \Twister outside. (This is not h igbty recommended for those wllo wake up with an awful headache!) What about a campus game of S.P.U.D.? Everyone knows this game if they've ever gone to camp! !.Department of Motor Vehicles- I don't know, this migt1t only happen. in New YorK., but waiting on those lines is unbearable. First of alt I have the good luck of having a summer birthday, which means I usually go to Motor Vehicles around then. Of course, I always seem to pick the hottest day of the year and there is no air- conditioning! So, I'm standing on line sweating to death while affect their brain somehow.· Not only tbat but I can never understand what they're saying through the little opening in the window. 3 .Social Smokers- I ha·ve 5 .Becky on Roseanne- A younger and poorer version of Brenda. But basically, the · same attitude. Thank God she's married and moved out with that loser Mark. I do like the episode where Darlene tells her off. 6.Answering Machines- never mind the fact that it took me almost a week to figure out how to hook mine up. I try not to leave messages on an cont. on page 13 . P.RI'NCIPLES oj.SOUND. R·ETIRE0~EN.T·[NVESTING UNFORTUNATED; THIS IS WHERE PEOPLE ARE PUTTING TOO MANY RETIREMENT DOLLARS. E very year, a lot of people make a money yolll d9n't send to Washington huge mistake on their taxes. They works eve-n harder for you. Down the don't take advantage of tax deferral and road, that can make a dramatic difference wind up sending Uncle Sam money they :in your quality of life. could be saving for retirement. What etse makes SRAs so special? Fortunately, that's a mistake you can A range of allocation choices-from the easily avoid with TIAA-CREF SRAs. guaranteed security ofTIAA to the SRAs not only ease your current tax- diversified: investment accounts of bite, they offer a remarkably easy way CREF's variable annuity-all backed to build retirement income-especially by the nation's number one retirement for the \extras\ that your regular pension system. and Social Security benefits may not Why write off the chance for a more cover. Because your contributions are rewarding retirement? Call today and made in before-tax dollars, you pay less !earn more about how TIAA-CREF taxes now. And since all earnings on SRAs can help you enjoy many your SRA are ta}C-deferred as well, the happy returns. Benefit IW'IP .frrJm tiUC deferml. Cllllnur SRA bt~'l:litu 1800~842-2733, e:tet. 8016. 75 years of enSuring the future for those who shape it!\' F \~' minutes! When you~re done with \not doing\ your work, w1Iat are you doing! What can yo11 do? One thin.g to do is go silo:pping. The:Fe's always S()tnething you need to buy. Even if it's simply .going to Price Chopper. 'Food is always a mecessity. It's a great excuse to 'leave the building! You can ' al~o walk to Jay Street, h()wever I don't thi:njc it's open om Sundays. So just window sh~p! If you're one of those crazy shoppers, take a trip to 1\>Wne. I heard. there are great o11tlet stores up.tllere. You can be adventurous and dye or highlight_ your hair. Aren't we all dying for a clt.ange in our lives? It'll take atx>ut an hour and you can ilave a great time with it. Li~hten it, darke11 it, or be ex1reme, dye it purple! It's. always an advantage to stand oui in the crowd. If it's a nice day the best tiling to do is walk. Walk to Brueggers. The walk itself co11ld take a good half hour. You get exercise and food at the same time. Wbat you eat, · yotJ work off on the way back. It's quality hang out time with yollf friends. What about learning a new instrument? Piano is great. I do11't know how t() play, and it's: a great thing to learn. Sunday's are the perfect days to learn toQ! Simply go into the arts building and imJrovise! It's probably a plus to go with someone who is familiar with the i11strument. It Rubes® For the \romantic\ types, Sunday's could be a good day to take a drive across tile beautiful country side. Just drive up the New York Thruway and get off at any exit in the boonies! Once tile leaves are green it's a beautiful· sight to see. However, there are the few who wouldn't last a car ride since they feel so sick. Here• & a little hint on how to spend your Sunday if you feel bad. Get a good II)a.gazine, maybe a few magazines,. pick a nice, comfortable spot in tbe bathroom and relax. That way you really don't have far to travel when your not feeli:ng \up to par!\ The most popular way to spend a long Sunday is sleeping. Everyone needs to catch up on sleep and the beginning of the week is tbe day to do it! It definitely makes the day go quicker. To give you some variety, on a nice day, sleep outside! Or why not sleep on the roof of a · building, or in a lounge in the College Center. It's always nice for a change in pacet YotJ can sleep in or •:out.\ These are simply a few ideas for a Sunday afternoon! Be crazy, it only comes once a week. Take advantage of ·a long Sunday and don't forget it's a great day to catch up on all that work! Leigh Rubin C!IEF a:rtijiCaJ~ are ilittrWideiJ 6y TIAA-CREF J,;}j..;)UP.i and !n.ttiiutionaiSttVUr:J, p,.. rMrwmpkte informalwn. inclu2ing cbarguanJ (3{1tiU~. GdU /80U-842-27JJ, e.x/. 801 The greatest inconvenience of the Midas touch. for a ptWpectUJ. RMJ tbe ptWptcl/U carofuil!! biforr: you in~ul «Jr Jettil lniJnty..

AprilS, 1993 .. page 12 Plenty Alexis Leist Features Writer Everyone has pet peeves. I happen to be one of the few who has more then the average amount of pet .peeves. I've written about some of them before. Not that I've counted them or anything. but last night before I wenl to sleep I thought about all of them, and believe me I had nightmares! But, since I don't want to bore you with a list of at least a thousand I will just give you my top ten. Here it goes. !.Department of Motor Vehicles- I don't know, this might only happen in New York, but waiting on those lines is unbearable. First of all. I have the good luck of having a summer birthday, which means 1 usually go to Motor Vehicles around then. Of course, I always seem to pick the hottest day of the year and there is no air- conditioning! So, I'm standing on line sweating to death while of Pet the woman in front of me has three very small, very annoying children and the guy behind me is at least seventy years old and keeps asking me what the signs say. By the way. what a way to organize. once you get to the front of the line you have to go to the back of another line. The clerks are usually crabby too. By the time I get out of there, half the day is gone and I feel as if I've been through a battle. 2.Gas station attendants- first of all. they never understand the amount I ask for. Then. I'll walk back to my car and they forget to tum on the gas. I'll walk back and ask them politely and they look at me as if I'm crazy. They insist that. it's turned on. They take their. job very seri<msly, but I think all the gas fumes probably affect their brain somehow. Not only that but I can never understand wbat they're saying through the little opening in the window. 3.Social Smokers- I have FEATURES Peeves one thing to say-Why? Obviously, lhese people only care about appearances. I just don't understand, when they're hanging with friends, they never smoke. The minute they get to a party. they light one up. Hello! They even say \I need a butt.\ No. you don't need a butt. you just want to look cooL P.S. You -don't. 4.Brenda on Beverly Hills 90210- She's obnoxious, bitchy, whiny, snobby and what's with all the black lately? Devil Worship? 5. Becky on Roseanne- A younger and poorer version of Brenda. But basically, the same attitude. Thank God she's married and movecl out with that loser Mark. I d~> like the episode where Darlene tells her off. 6.Answering Machines· never mind the fact that it tool< me almost a week to figme ou1 how to hook mine up. I ti) n()t to leave messages on an cont. on page 13 '.:. ·~it l.N.c.-.1 P. I{t:: .. s. :·)~:it-so tr;\r.n _)~ .E. .. ~r r-R E·.,,I·E.-.r,.i ·.r~>r 'N· v 6.s .:r·H'~· o. ::. ' \ ' . . ' ' . ·. \ ·. . . ' .-' .. . . ::~\ _ .... t ...... rt. ~. .. ;.;;;,, UNFO TillS IS WHERE PEOPLE ARE PUTTING TOO MANY RETIREMENT DOLLARS. E very year, a lot of people make a money you d<.m't send to Washington huge mistake on their taxes. They works even harder for you. Down the don't take advantage of tax deferral and road, that can make a dramatic difference wind up sending Uncle Sam money they inyour quality of life. could be saving for retirement. What else makes SRAs so special? Fort1:1nately, that's a mistake you can A range of allocation choices-from the easily avoid with TIAA-CREF SRAs. guaranteed security ofTIAA to the SRAs not only ease your current tax- diversified investment accounts of bite, they offer a remarkably easy way CREF's variable annuity-aU backed to build retirement income-especially by the nation's number one retirement for the \extras\ that your regular pension system. and Social Security benefits may not Why write off the chance for a more cover. Because your contributions are rewarding retirement? Call today and made in before-tax dollars, you pay less learn more about how TIAA-CREF taxes now. And since all earnings on SRAs can help you enjoy many your SRA are tax-deferred as well, the happy returns. Benefit now from tRx deferral. Call our SRA botline 1800-842-2733, ~. 8016. 75 years of ensuring the future for those who shape it!\\ A Boring Sunday Michelle Rosenbaum Features writer Sundays always seem to be the longest days of the week. No matter how late you wake up they just never seem to end. You have piles of work to do, yet you're usually so tired it takes you an hour to do something that should take five minutes! When you're done with \not doing\ your work, what are you doing? What can you do? One thing to do is go shopping. There's always something you need to buy. Even if it's simply going to Price Chopper. Food is always a necessity. It's a great excuse to leave the building! You can also walk to Jay Street, however I don't thinJc it's open on Sundays. So just window shop! If you're one of those crazy shoppers, take a trip to Maine. I heard there are great outlet stores up there. You can be adventurous and dye or highlight your hair. Aren't we all dying for a change in our lives? It'll take about an hour and you can have a great time with it. Lighten it, darken it, or be extreme, dye it purple! It's. always an advantage to stand out in the crowd. If it's a nice day the best thing to do is walk. Walk to Brueggers. The walk itself could take a good half hour. You get exercise and food at the same time. What you eat, you work off on the way back. It's quality hang out time with your friends. What about learning a new instrument? Piano is great. I don't know how to play, and it's a great thing to learn. Sunday's are the perfect days to learn too! Simply go into the arts building and improvise! It's probably a plus to go with someone who is familiar with the instrument. It Rubes® sounds interesting to do! All of us remember playing board games. So if it's disgusting weather outside just get a bunch of friends and play .... \Monopoly.\ The game could take aU of two Sundays to finish! However. if it is a beautiful, sunny spring day how about playing a huge game of \Twister outside. (This is not highly recommended for those who wake up with an awful headache!) What about a campus game of S.P.U.D.? Everyone knows this game if they've ever gone to camp! For the \romantic\ types, Sunday's could be a good day to take a drive across the beautiful country side. Just drive up the New York Thruway and get off at any exit in the boonies! Once the leaves are green it's a beautiful sight to see. However, there are the few who wouldn't last a car ride since they feel so sick. Here'& a little hint on how to spend your Sunday if you feel bad. Get a good ll)agazine, maybe a few magazines, pick a nice, comfortable spot in the bathroom and relax. That way you really don't have far to travel when your not feeling \up to par!\ The most popular way to spend a long Sunday is sleeping. Everyone needs to catch up on sleep and the beginning of the week is the day to do it! It definitely makes the day go quicker. To give you some variety, on a nice day, sleep outside! Or why not sleep on the roof of a building, or in a lounge in the College Center. It's always nice for a change in pace! You can sleep in or \oul.\ These are simply a few ideas for a Sunday afternoon! Be crazy, it oni y comes once a week. Take advantage ofa long Sunday and don't forget it's a great day to catch up on all that work! By Leigh Rubin r'RF.F arr.(ual<JaJ'( Jutrthu.uJIMJ TIAA-CREF fndtvUJWJI ani) ln.rtt.l~/UJIUII s,,..rr.., Form<Jrl!<omplttt in{ortrUJiwn, wlaJur, cb•rgt.r anJe.:rp,nm, rail 1800-84?l7JJ, at. 801 The greatest inconvenience of the Midas touch. /or a prrupurw. R,.a,} tlu pAASputw c•r</uUy bt/or< you\\\\\/ or unJ 11wnry.

g d e s a t I <llv1t.cnr bi.en.sis FEATURES AprilS, 1993, pag~ 13 WARNING: Fraternity ·Parties May Be Hazardous to Your Health New & Improved U 1IJl c ll e JB cdlJJJl ~ Erin M. O'Neil Features Editor I'm mad! Like other Union students, I tend to gravitate towards the same parties every weekend, and like other Union students, I know that it can get pretty boring. So last weekend I decided to do something about it. I resolved to broaden my social horizons and do something I hadn't done in well over a year. 1 went up campus. A bold move, I thought, seeing that it is so far away. Plus, I don't like to dance all that much. On the other hand, this could have been a perfect opportunity for me to ·meet some new people, maybe even fonn long-lasting friendships. Yes, i had high hopes as I trudged through the mud towards my destination. I couldn't wait for the adventure to begin. Things didn't go quite as I had hoped (we're getting to the part that made me really mad now). I arrived at said fraternity (I won•t say which one, but it wasn't TD Chi, or AE Pi), and there was a line to get inside. Now this is something I have never experienced down campus, and is perhaps, just one of the reasons I rarely leave that area. Anyway, so there was a line- and it wasn't moving. -~, However, every couple of minutes a fraternity brother who was working the door would open it, look outside, and sneer at those of us who were shivering in the cold. Then he would let out a wicked cackle, and slam the door. Mter this had happened a few times I began to get very annoyed. Not•being the most patient person in the world, and possibly not the most coUFteous, I decided that like it or not- I was going in. I'm small, I don't take up much room. I reasoned. For aH they knew, I had gone there with the sole purpose to hook up with one of them. Isn't that why they almost always let women into fraternities? Why couldn't they just ·let me in? I had not walked all this way to watch some brother slam a door in my face. \I'm going in there,\ I informed my companion. \They're not going to let you in,\ he cautioned. \Oh yeah?,\ I challenged. His skepticism only made my determination greater. With that, I cast a confident grin over my shoulder, and shoved my way to the front of the line. \You can't go in there!,\ the crowd yelled from behind. \Hal I scoffed defiantly, and pulled the door open, much to the· surprise of the two large men who stood behind it. \Hi! I greeted them cheerfully, and started down the hall to the party. Well, the next thing I know one of the two large \men\ had picked me up, and slung me over his Shoulder- ·as if I was a sack of potatoes or something. \Let me down, you brute! Let me down!,\ I shrieked as he pummeled my back with his gargantuan fists. \We told you you couldn't come in!,\ he bellowed as he roughly threw me onto the muddy parking .lot, giving the door one final slam behind him. \'I'll never come back to this *7%3@1? \;&@3$2! again!,\ I yelled after him, shaking my fist in the air. My friend picked .-ne up and brushed me off- then called for an ambulance. You see, the gorilla who tossed me around did some serious damage. I suffered a concussion and six cracked ribs as a result of his unnecessary violence. I'm thinking of suing. So, after my wounds had been tended to, my partner and I decided to try another up campus party. Another bold move on my part. Uncle Edna is a Union College student who had his retirement home built and ready to be occupied but was called back at the last minute to continue his column. Contract problems and FCC viqlations, the two reasons for Edna's retirement, have been cleared up. 'The only thing that has yet to dear up is Union College Touree Fred Savage's · (Wonde:r Years) face. This new and improved column will be multi-fascited for your reading pleasure. Disenfranched? Outcast? Winnie Cooper lover? Why ask Anne or Abby when y~u can ask your own loving Uncle Edna- Box 83. Edna's Mailbox Dear Uncle Edna, My roommate plans to be getting a Gerbil and wants to keep it in our room. I am really afraid of most creatures, especially Gerbils. What should.ldo? · -D.O. Rodentia Dear D.G., It seems to me that you have RichardGere-itis, or the fear of getting too intimate with gerbils. Gerbils can be your friend if you let them. I would Again, I won't mention any names (but it wasn't Sigma Death, or AE Pi). I was st11nned when! was greeted with open arms. Everywhere I turned, there were brothers there to assist me. They took my coat, got me drinks, pushed my wlleelchair. My wish was their command. . In fact, that wonderful groti-p of fellows have even offered to pay the medical . bills resulting from my unfortunate experience at that other fraternity. , suggest trying to get used to having the gerbil around and most importantly you need to spend some quality time with it. If you find that you still cannot befriend the cute little fellow, throw him in the blender and blend, blend, blend. It is because of that angelic group of human beings that I have not completely written off the up campus party scene. Next time I'll just ha~e to remember to wear my helmet. Dear Uncle Edna, African-American and Latino Alliance of Students What's up with the guy who walks around campus and picks up litter all day. I'd like him to know that he does a great job. PRESENTS In Honor Of Hispanic/Latino Heritage Month Dr. J. Jorge Klor de Alva SPE.AKING ON \Latinos and the Dilemma of Identity in the U.S.\ Thur. April 8, 1993 C.C. Aud. 3:30PM -Dr. Klor de Alva is currently a professor of Anthropology at Princeton University. He is a renowned scholar in the field of education, on ethnic and racial matters. He has · been recognized for his many articles and numerous publications concerning -Latino . Issues. -DP DearDP, Union executives who I contacted didn't know the gentleman's name. I too think he does a great job. Rumor has it, though, that he is up for retirement and that former V .P. Jack Maranville, who was fired after embezzling $60,000 from Union, bas applied for the job. cont. fFom page 12 because I sound like a two-year old. I don't understand why recordings have to make your voice at least ten times higher then it really is. It is fun to receive messages though, and make fun of the person's voice. 7. Buses- I hope I never have to take one again. The first and only time I've been on a bus was a nightmare. I had to stand up for the first half-hour. Thenf when I finally could sit down the only seat available was all the way in the back. You know, where there is a three~seater. And guess ·who had to-sit in the middle? For a three-hour ride I was stuck in between these two guys, who were talking about country music! 8. Toll- Booths- You' must Edna's Top Ten Disney decided to name tile seven dwarves Happy, Dopey, Doc, Sleepy, Grumpy, Bashful, and Sneezy. These weren't easy to get however. There were many names based on dominant charactor traits considered The following are a few of those. Top Ten rejected names for the seven dwarves: 10. Bloated 9. Dislectic 8. Horny 7. Anal Retentive 6. Inebriated 5. Schizophrenic 4. Satanic 3. Sadomasochistic 2. Drooly 1. Constipated Crack. Han .of Fame Every week I will induct someone into the Crack Hall of Fame. To achieve this honor, a person must do something very bizarre and unusual· thereby acting as if they were on Crack. Being on Crack isn't necessarily a bad thing, and inductees aren't necessarily bad people. they simply have to do weird things. Inductees should be honored. I hereby induct as the charter member of the Crack Hall of Fame: RANGER DANGER Yes folks, the man who saturates our telivision sets (Fox-23) with his moronic anticts and pratfalls has earned the first induction into my Crack Hall of Fame. For those of you who aren't familiar with Ranger Danger, tune in to Fox during he day and look for a masochistic fat guy dressed up like an Oedipal boy scout The moronic things that he does would make Mother Theresa want to throw a brick at the screen. Welcome to the Crack Hall of Fame- Ayahhh! Edna's Student of The Week: Tricia Cook, whom I kissed for a dollar. understand that to get anywhere south from my house requires going through a toll. I never seem to have change and I really think it's stupid to break a dollar for the roads of New York. Like my forty cents is really going to help. I usually just go through right behind the car in front of me, but for some reason I don't think this really works. There is one toll- booth where if you pretend that you're putting money in (just go through the hand-motions) the light turns green. I dread the day when my parents get a bill for a million dollars because of all the tolls I've avoided. 9. Parking Lots- This goes along with the whole transportation theme. There are some crazy people ill parking lots. Including me. I can barely park, let alone drive. •

g 's d a y e y f t I <llJJ11ror ltieusin FEATURES WARNING: Fraternity Parties May Be Hazardous to Your Health Erin M. O'Neil Features Editor I'm mad! Like other Union students, I tend to gravitate towards the same parties every weekend, and like other Union students, I know that it can get pretty boring. So last weekend I decided to do someth,ing about it. I resolved to broaden my social horizons and do something I hadn't done in well over a year. I went up campus. A ooid move, I thought, seeing that it is so far away. Plus. I don't like to dance all that much. On the other hand, this could have been a perfect opportunity for me to rneet some new people. maybe even fonn long-lasting friendships. Yes, I had high hopes as I trudged through the mud towards my destination. I couldn't wait for the adventure to begin. Thi11gs didn't go quite as l bad hoped (we're getti11g to the part that made me really mad now). I arrived at said fraternity (I won't say which one, but it wasn't TD Chi, or AE Pi), and there was a line to get inside. Now this is something I have never experienced down campus, and is perhaps, just one of the reasons I rarely leave that area. Anyway, so there was a line- and it wasn't moving. · ~' · However, every couple of minutes a fraternity brother who was working the door would open it. look outside, and sneer at those of us who were shivering in the cold. Then he would let out a wicked cackle, and slam the door. After this had happened a few times I began to get very annoyed. Not .. being the most patient person in the world, and possibly not the most colllieous, I decided that like it or not- I was going in. I'm smatl, I dm1't take up much room, I reasoned. For all they knew. I had gone there with the sole purpose to hook up with one of them. Isn't that why they almost always let women into fraternities? Why couldn't they just let me in? I had not walked all this way to watch some l)rother slam a door in my face. \I'm going in there,\ I informed my companion. \They're not going to let you in,\ he cautioned. \Oh yeah?,\ I challenged. His skepticism only made my determination greater. With that, I cast a confident grin over my shoulder, and shoved my way to the front of the line. \You can't go in there!,\ the crow<! yelled from behind. \Hal I scoffed defiantly, and pulled the door open, much to the surprise of the two large men who stood behind it. \Hi! I greeted them cheerf11lly, and started down the hall to the party. Well, the next thing I know one of the two large \men\ had picked me up, and slung me over llis shoulder- as if I was a sack of potatoes or something. \Let me down, you brute! Let me down!,\ I shrieked as he pummeled my back with his gargantuan fists. \We told you you couldn't come in!,\ he bellowed as he roughly threw me onto the muddy parking lot, giving the door one final slam behind him. \I'll never come back to this *7%3@ 1? \;&@ 3$2! again!,\ I yelled after him, shaking my fist in the air. My friend picked me up and brushed me off- then called for an ambulance. You see, the gorilla who tossed me around did some serious damage. I suffered a concussion and six cracked ribs as a result of his unnecessary violence. I'm thinking of suing. So, after my wounds had been teAded to, my partner and I decided to try another up campus party. Another bold move on my part. Again, I won't mention any names (but it wasn't Sigma Death, or AE Pi). I was stunned whenl was greeted with open arms. Everywhere I turned, there were brothers there to assist me. They took my coat, got me drinks, pushed my wheelchair. My wish was their command. In fact, that wonderful group of fellows have even offered to pay the medical bills resulting from my unfortunate experience at that other fraternity. It is because of that angelic group of human beings that I have not completely written off the up campus party scene. Next time I'll just have to remember to wear my helmet. African-Amer1can and Latino Alliance of Students PRESENTS In Honor Of Hispanic/Latino Heritage Month Dr. J. Jorge Klor de Alva SPEAKING ON \Latinos and the Dilemma of Identity in the U.S.\ Thur. April 8, 1993 C.C. Aud. 3:30PM -Dr. Klor de Alva is currently a professor of Anthropology at Princeton University. He is a renowned scholar in the field of education, on ethnic and racial matters. He has been recognized for his many articles and numerous publications concerning Latino Issues. j I ' April8, 1993, pag~ 13 New & Improved UllJlcHce JEdllJlcn Uncle Edna is a Union College student who had his retirement home built and ready to be occupied but was called back at the last minute to continue his column. Contract problems and FCC violations, the two reasons for Edna's retirement, have been cleared . up. The only thing that has ' yet to clear up is Union College Touree Fred Savage's (Wonder Years) face. This new and improved column will be multi-fascited for your reading pleasure. Disenfranched? Outcast? Winnie Cooper lover? Why ask Anne or Abby when you can ask your own loving Uncle Edna- Box 83. Edna's Mailbox Dear Uncle Edna, My roommate plans to be getting a Gerbil and wants to keep it in our room. I am really afraid of most creatures, especially Gerbils. What should I do? -D.O. Rodentia DearD.G., It seems to me that you have RichardGere-itis, or the fear of getting too intimate with gerbils. Gerbils can be your friend if you let them. I would suggest trying to get used to having the gerbil around and most importantly you need to spend some quality time with it. If you find that you still cannot befriend the cute little fellow, throw him in the blender and blend, blend, blend. Dear Uncle Edna, What's up with the guy who walks around campus and picks up litter all day. I'd like him to know that he does a great job. -DP DearDP, Union executives who I contacted didn't know the gentleman's name. I too think he does a great job. Rumor has it. though, that he is up for retirement and that former V .P. Jack Maranville, who was fired after embezzling $60,000 from Union, has applied for the job. cont. from page 12 because I sound like a two-year old. I don't understand why recordings have to make your voice at least ten times higher then it really is. It is fun to receive messages though. and make fun of the person's voice. 7. Buses- I hope I never have to take one again. The first and only time I've been on a bus was a nightmare. I had to stand up for the first half-hour. Then, when I finally could sit down the only scat available was all the way in the back. You know, where there is a· three-seater. And guess who had to sit in the middle? For a three-hour ride I was stuck in between these two guys. who were talking about country music! 8. Toll- Booths- You must Edna's Top Ten Disney decided to name the seven dwarves Happy. Dopey. Doc, Sleepy. Grumpy. Bashful, and Sneezy. These weren't easy to get however. There were many names based on dominant charactor traits considered. The following arc a few of those. Top Ten rejected names for the seven dwarves: 10. Bloated 9. Dislectic 8. Horny 7. Anal Retentive 6. Inebriated 5. Schizophrenic 4. Satanic 3. Sadomasochistic 2. Drooly 1. Constipated Crack Hall of Fame Every week I will induct someone into the Crack Hall of Fame. To achieve this honor, a person must do something very bizarre and unusual- thereby acting as if they were on Crack. Being on Crack isn't necessarily a bad thing. and inductees aren't necessarily bad people, they simply have to do weird things. Inductees should be honored. I hereby induct as the charter member of the Crack Hall of Fame: RANGER DANGER Yes folks, the man who saturates our telivision sets (Fox-23) with his moronic anticts and pratfalls has earned the first induction into my Crack Hall of Fame. For those of you who aren't familiar with Ranger Danger. tunc in to Fox during he day and look for a masochistic fat guy dressed up like an Oedipal boy scout. The moronic things that he does would make Mother Theresa want to throw a brick at the screen. Welcome to the Crack Hall of Fame- Ayahhh! Edna's Student of The Week: Tricia Cook, whom I kissed for a dollar. understand that to get anywhere south from my house requires going through a toll. I never seem to have change and I really think it's stupid to break a dollar for the roads of New York. Like my forty cents is really going to help. I usually just go through right behind the car in front of me. but for some reason I don't think this really works. There is one toll- booth where if you pretend that you're puttin~ money in (just go through the hand-motions) the light turns green. r dread the day when my parents get a hill for a miJJion dollars because of all the tolls I've avoided. 9. Parking Lots- This goes alono with the whole 0 transpmtation theme. There arc some crazy pcopk in parking lots. Including me. I can barely park, let alone drive.

AprilS, 1993, page 14 CAMPUS BULLETIN B·OARD <ll.tJltrvr:Uietuliz ANNOUNCING THE THIRD AN.f\IUAL STEINMETZ SYMPOSIUM SENIORS MAY 14, 1993 FROM 1:30 ~ 5:30 FRIDAY AFTERNOON BEFORE PRIZE DA'f Th.ought about ~speaking at Commencement?· I' If you are interested in speaking~ submit a 1\-4 page (approx·. 5 min.) draft to MRS. MARRA ir-a CC 408 by ·Friday, April' 23. Stl:ldents from all classes and in all dlscipEin es who have creative, scholarly or research p.ro j~;cts to offer are Invited to be p.~esenters at the 1 9913 Steinmetz Symposium. Presentations can ramge from art to zoology. NCUR students will give thel r talks The topiic is yours to choose. Please include your lD number, nam·e, box and phone numbers an your draft. If you wish to sing·the Alma Mater or the National! Anthe:m, please send your name, box and phone numbers to MRS .. MA;RRA,. C:C 408 before April 23. or posters. All other Interested students shoollld find a faculty sponsor and participate In\ the Syml!Jo-slum. Deadline for submlssl on of topics to the A.s~oc:lste Dean's Office, S·100, Is April 15. The Symposium will culminate In a banquoel in Old Chapel to honor present-ers and faculty partiCf·psnts Auditions will be held on M:on~ May 3. and Thurs. May 6, at 7:00 p.m. in Room SS0116.. Sign'up for an audition time when you submit your draft or name to Mrs. Marra's office. UNION COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM APRIL 14, 1993 8 PM Admission Free For moie information: (518) 370-6608 THE BIOLOGY GLUB AND DEPARTMENT ANNOUNCE WHALE WATCH ·93 PROVINCETOWN, CAPE COD APRIL ~..tt, 25 Leave campus Saturday mornJng, have the afternoon and evening free, 4 hour whale watch aboard the Dolphin Fleet on Sunday morning, 2 h•ours for lunch, and return to campus early S 1.1.n~ay evening. Price of $30 includes bus. nn..otel and whale watch. Make your reservations now at the Biology Dept. Office (S&E S-324). Payment by cas:.ht or check required at the time of reservation. join us for our 12th year of whale watching on the Capel Be pr~pared for a Fantasti-c Adventurel for the Biology Club, Prof. George Butterstein UNION COLLEGE DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT and THE BIOLOGY CLUB Present SEX and ~ELECTRICITY: LESSONS FROM A FISH Chet's Cornell' J.H[AROLD lRt. ~ON~ Ph. ]D)~ . llJ)~p.itir~:wn.®nt illlf ~illlillll®U Umi:v®raity of iJr~u &t .&uw-tli$. Thursday, April 8, 1993 . 4:40 p.m. Refreshments 4:30 p.m. · Social Sciences I 03 WELCOME BACK ... Get set for an exciting spring term with Chet's. We have lots in store ... especially for all you SPRING TERM SENIORS! First off, CHET'S has new hours. We are D()VI CJpen Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and, Fridays. For special events we will open CJf Saturdays, but it will no longer be a regular operation day. This week:, starting with tonight, Thursday April 8th, Chet's will be open Spm until lam. Tomorrownlg:ht, Friday April 9th, as usual faculty and students. are invited to enjoy CHETS happy medium from 4pm until 8pm. Free food will be available every week at happy medium, Following this week's happy medium will be a musical performance by Ashdown Selllfon. md Morrissy at 9:30pm. Monday April 12th will be lO cent wings (Monday's spoecial)and Wednesday Chet's will host a comedian STEVEN SOLIS, · ·- sponsored by the sisters of Phi lota Alpha. Come:enjGy the enter!aimnent at CHET'S ... ll.S the weal:her gets warmer the patio will be openi11g as j)art of CHET'S. Also look for our new huge screen TV as well as our new CD player .. bring your own discs if you want! Questions f comments come to meetings Thwsda.yat 4pm in cc409. Things to look for ... STUDS will be APRll. 16th (FRIDAY) sign up in the college center. Also, Hei!Vy B:reathing Jazz will follow STUDS as that evening's entertainment ALAS will host a palty that following Saturday (April 17th) so get ready!!! THE UNION COLLEGE COMMUNITY WELCOMES FUTURE MEMBERS OF 'THE CLASS OF 1997 l'nterested in becoming a Tour Guide? Apply to be a Union College GATEKEEPER Applications are available in the Admissions Office. Deadline for application is Friday April 16. SENIORS HELP PLAN YOUR D:J.SORIENTATION 5:00 MONDAY, CC305

OUT ,ON A LIMB by GARY KOPERVAS WleY®mz'.ll~\~ ~c:>S\ '1-l~~ ~v> · THE SPATS by JEFF ~ICKERING DoN'T Te.M-PT Mf! seCAuse t'M ARMeD ... ~ON£'6 THnNKS FoR TAKING OUT -------------------- THE TR~SH, ll10IAIIN6 THE lAWN, A~D CHRNIJING TH~ OtL IN TilE CRR ·' ToMY. .. .Yoii'Rf A frEIJL DOLL!! ( Vf'/' DATE INC!PENT: ~~ 1t-\$ f'R\'i/r; \N N\1\\<.\NG ouR C\Y::.TON\b~ f~EL f!>.LL l'V\lC: (ON\fOR\f. o'f \-¥)1\N;:. t;,o (-::f;\ ~~ '{oiJR L-~Z.''{ 'b\)i\ t:-..NO fG\C..\-\ '(o\JR. ONN \)~N\~ (-\)~ or (,C>frE-E .. • ,3f29,!:~:;~reye~~!',~gujsber from ·secur·I•ty R. e·port -3129,~M!ssin~ll yjd~ep ta-pes- , '. · . 312 9 F!oodlng~false alarms 3129 Ihef1-phou recejver ara Theft-text, calculator.cash hi I 41 3/93 Vanda!jsm-tawn and parking 3/2 9 Assj§l student\ wjth stuck 41119 3 VandaUsm-Btllden1 ye __ c_t vehicle , ~/1193 Vam<fal!sm~studen1 yehjeles ---....io 91 lliiiJ.Il\------- b I b 11/3/9 3 Vandalism-street !l~ht 3129 Eire alarm-byrnt fogd 4/1l9 3 possile lllp·qa su stance - - - 4/3£93 Damage to student yebicle 2 ,... f H d 4/3 I 9 3 Unleashed dog-aggressiV!Z ~3UI3~0WF~!o~o~dminQg~c~omnd~int!o~n~s~. ~vwar~iowual:4~/~~,9~3~·~~aue~t~Y-naaz~e~rL·------- - Th f k ____ bweuh~a~vulo~r------~--- bul!dlogs 4/2!93e t-room tY - /2'9 .. T d hi 1 kl A13/93 Fire alarm~L!fo Safety 3 1 3 0. Water Sl!!fl'!!Qe Into room 4 · i! JtWe ye c es-par ng :z: ;v 3.0 Eloqdlnq co god itloo --..oiR~t.ArUilo.!£bul !Zu.&m.._ ____ __.._ __ _,:vLL!wolaJ&twl PUJU1-.Lil 9 u 9 ~ue2.1od.._ ___ _ 3/30 Irespais~oon student 4£2f!t3 Vandp!lsm•p!)ol room 3£ a j Vandalism-student yehlc!e :t.4lu2<L.fJL9:JiUJ.H.!!.la CE:J!Di.li.881Umweunu..t -~s~;.ti.!LIW:d!Ee:..!!n.L.t __ 4t.JI~4-.L,I 9lt,i3L.lSilJIUIJI.SPRJI¥Jei.2JOYII.lls~peursiillowo..-sm11.u~e'-L!JmL~~U-pt to vandalize Stop sign · Sl k h d 4-13t 9? Hazll!rd-b. roken ,.lass a.4J.u4LL.IJ!.9 .i1.,3 -~AiwteiZ.IimiUiPwteud~....-~twhlii:Jef.t-~ch~.~.~~awir_s_ ~~1~3~l~~~\~~ol~e_m~poart~e~------ -----~------ ·----- ~---- - 4 {1 t 9 3 Elm alarm-oi() nd uct c haraes a.!J~4t.Ll.~t.9 3i!.-.L!YaunLS!daml.lll!lsJI!mi:5-s!.UtuU!d~e nw.t...-..%.:va~hwl c<..!..liile 3/31 Eire alarms-.EqLJ!pnjenf . __ x ___ --- ----- ------- ------- p rob 1 em flied spo notified . \\\1' 413( Q a F.allure to 1!\'Bcy•t!? durjnq !.141~4:.!../ ~93iiL....JEiiiOsu;;c.ii!JOrtiJ.....lYUZ'Wh!.lC.Icl'2-e ...:d~~~£1lwm~m;ag~~o:~e\\\d- 41j A rg u me nt-tna 1 affe m 8 1' 11 re alprrn-ccndus:;t shaJ:g§lt :t.4 t..::f 4LL./£9 .liLa _z.:Vau.n~.~~~d.lil.la lw;lswm&.;;;-Wwaull....__,p\\'r\\ea\-:\- :t.411..11L.--JPur.x~abiW!eif.llml.l.....l!wwltw.h ...:sflil!oc.xoJ..r _.,!~ocmk_ 4 f 3 r U M. y. ace! deDt•eplle ge ~41~4t.L./.!L9 3a~.-Vll..laUJn~ar:lo 111 1mlswm:.ll-sw.tuwd.2.1e n~Ut__,.,ye...,h....,f c...,te,.,.a 1! \ : ! ~] I 1 \ 21 \If men are physically superior to women, let's see you put this on without help.\ \I'm sorry about your dolly ... 1 did aU I could.\ HOURS: Sunday-Thursday 11 A.M.- 1 A.!\11. Friday & Saturday 11 A.M.- 2 A.M. EAT IN OR TAKE OUT FREE DELIVERY* *$7.00 MINIMUM 370-3928 1----------------~ I FREE LIT'ER OF SODA II : WITH PURCHASE OF 1 I $10.00 :OR MORE I : (WITH COUPON) 1 I EXPIRES APRIL 4, 1993 I ~----------------' 411 Found k!!tyo , property dama;ed 4/4/93 Vonda!lam-wlndow '--------------------

Union Crew Sends Wake-Up Call to Other Area Cr,ews by Steve Mooar Ct1ncordiensis Staff The Union College_ Crew Team returned from Spring Break, in Chestertown, Maryland; to filld the Mowhawk River still frozen from the brutal winter season. This did not dampen tile spirits of the team which was forced to move indoors to prepare for the Skidmore Invitational on Apri13rd. Mother Nature -put the competing crew teams in an interesting situation. First~ the race had to be moved to Albany because Saratoga lake was still frozen. Second. none of the crews had practiced on the water in at least a week wbich caused Vassar and R.P .I. to pull out. This left Albany, Middlebury, Skidmore, and Union to battle the w-inter weather on the Hudson River. The week off the water did not seem to affect the Union Team as the men's novice eight began the run for the overall points trophy. The novice eight beat the second place Middleb.ury boat by eight seconds. The women's novice eight would not be outdone by the novice men. They moved passed the competition with a 14 second victory and improved their record to 2-0 in this young season. The early victories by the novice eights heightened the enthusiasm of the varsity rowers. The varsity women came back from a disappointing second to Skidmore' in the fours race to win in the eights race with open water to spare. For the o-tt-PI ltl ~lllw oo~- ;}41 lll S! q:ilnea AWlllllS AJUQ ·~uoN ·g ~Au;}jjE:J:>:W: UOQ 'L ~I!:;>W -J~A 1{:>!Q \9 !L -sot-£SI Uaft\o aA~lS \S !SJI!lS :lJOWPIRaJtl!l{d[ape[!q<J 't ~!~AB(\Bf\1 .-\e-a '£ ~O-tt-Lt (Z:8-LL6I) ll::IUU;}g UtlW~~ ·z; !(z;) SAoq.h't.O:J Sti[(BQ pun Sll!l{d{OQ JWR!J-\1 'i varsity men's open eight it was • not as easy. They found · themselves in a dogfight with Skidin()re through the entire race. lt was not until the final 20 strokes of the race that they were ahle to pull away for a 2 second victory. After the race , Pete Schwab commented , \Its . not that we are that strong or rowing that well at this time, but we are rowing with intensity.\ The men's open· four was not able to repeat the performance of the open eight. However. they did finish third, a few seconds behind Middlehury and Skidmore. The most impressive perfollllance was put in by the men's varsity · lightweight fours. The 'A' boat sprinted to a 10 boat length victory, leaving the 'B' boat to deal with the rest of the competition. Middlebury's boat was able to move past Union '8' in the fmal meters to drop the 'B' boat to third place. Union h.as rowed a lightweight four for two seasons and the lineup of Matt Kirk (Gary Chase in 93), Kevin Poppe., Matt Green, Pete Schwab. and cox J J. Weiner have never lost a race. By winning 5 of 7 races the crew team convincingly captured the overall· points trophy. Despite Unions perfollllance at the Skidinore Invitational, first year Head Coach J irn Crick points out,\we must not lose sight of our goals. First , we have trained.all winter for two races, ~ad Vail Regatta ~nd The Champ ion International College Regatta. Second, we are building a basis for a successful crew team in coming years.\ SUP-PORT UNION SPORTS DUTCHWOMEN SWIMMERS ' . PLACE EIGHTH IN NCAA MEET; JULIE BENKER LEADS FIVE ·uNION ALL-AMERICANS Courtesy of Union Public Relations Senior Julie Benker (Rehoboth, MA/Dinghton- Rehoboth) won tlte Division lll National Championship in the 100 backstroke in a record· setting performance to lead Union College to an eight- place finish in the recently concluded NCAA swimming and diving competition at Emory College in Atlanta, Georgia Benker becomes the first Dutchwoman ever to win a national crown. · Four other Union swimmers also captured AU .. American honors by finishing in the top eight during the three-day meet. The efforts of the seven women who qualified for nationals helped Union accumulate 147 points to surpass last year's school-record 10th place finish in which the team scored 117· points. \It was an unbelievable performance.\ said head coach Susan Bassett, who was named \Coach of the Year\ by the College Swimming Coaches Association. \I couldn't be prouder of what they accomplished as a team and ru individuals.\ . Joining Benker in the ranks of All-American are juniors Kelly Bevan (Dalton, MA/Wahconah Regional) and Jen Baldwin (Great Falls, V A/Langley) as well as freshmen Jen Allaire (Big Flats, NY /Horseheads) and Jonatha Meade (Fairport, NY/Fairport). Freshman Eri Hayashi (Riverside, CT/Kent) picked up honorable mention All-American status while senior diver Kristen Holbrook (Bethany, CT/Hopkins Grammar) was also an NCAA qualifier. The top eight finishers in each event .are awarded All-American honors while nine through 16 are honorable mention. On the first day of Julie Benker. the new national champion in 1(}0 m. backstr.obe, has been praised as \unbelievable\ hy her coach Susan Ba~sett who was also honored with the \Coach of the Year\ award. competition, the 400 medley relay team of Benker, Bevan, Baldwin, and Allaire took fourth place in a Union College record 3:59.28. Later in the day, . the 200 freestyle relay team of Meade, Hayashi. Allaire, and Benker placed ninth with a 1:39.52. Allaire also swam the 200 individllal medley, capturing 11th place with a Union mark of 2: 11.62. Benker's national crown in the 100 backstroke highlighted the second day of competition for the Dutch women. Benker, who placed third in the event during last year's NCAA meet, established a national record with a 57.25 in the preliminaries to break the old ~tandard of 57.62 set in 1991. That night she won her title with a 57.68, almost a full second faster than the runnerup time of 58.311. Benker also established a meet record with a 26.63 split while swimming the first :leg of the 200 medley relay. Her efforts helped the quartet .of Bevan, Baldwin, and Mell!de finisb sixth with a 1:50:21. The 800 free;tyle relay tem of Meade, Be-van Hayashi, a:lld Allaire took: 15th with an 8:10.04 while Bevan pLac:ed lOth in the 100 breaststroke with a 1:08.~9. On day three, Be;nker captured eigh:th in the 200 back with a 2:08.43, Bevan was lOth in the 200 breaststroke with a 2:28.97. Allaire was 11th in the 200 backstroke with a 2: 10,().1, and the 400 freestyle relay team of Allaire, Hayashi, Me:ade, and Be-nker captured lOth with a 3:40.34. Sports Quiz -_ by Larry Duncan· . . . ' A SEASON OF DESPAIR FOR NEW YORK by Dave Fischer Concordiensis Staff For years now, New York fans have been let down by their two baseball franchises. One is a team of underachievers who could not regain the magic that catapulted them to a championship in 1986. The other is a team whose front office, up until this year, could not make a quality trade and chew gum at the same tirne. Relax. fellow citizens of the Big Apple, this year will be no different for the Mets and the Yankees. With the tremendolls disappointment ·of last season still fresh in the minds of Mets fans everywhere, the team begins tlte 1993 season with more p:roblems than Amy Fisher (no relation). Their starting staff, once the envy of baseball, can no longer get the job done. David Cone is no longer with the team (he was traded to Toronto last summer for two little leaguers and a has-been to be narne<llater), and long-time ace Doc Gooden, though still effective, does not have the zip on his fastball that won him the Cy Young Award in 1985. \El Sid\ Fernandez is one of baseball's all-time great underachievers whose greatest claim to fame is the speed at which he can scarf down a pepperoni pizza. Thirty-nine year old geezer Frank Tanana has not pitched effectively since the Carter Administration. Franky baby, you're done! Stick a fork in him. The Yankees, on the other hand, have made some great strides. The off-season acquisitions of Jimmy Key, and one-handed wonder Jim Abbott will solidify a starting staff that already showed promise with last summer's emergence of rookies Sam Millitello and Bob Wickman. Wade Boggs will add consistency to the line-up. and create stability at third base. Here's hoping that Wade scores as much in New Y ark as he did with the married women of Boston. The Yankees have improved, but· it won't be enough to come out on top of the American League Eastern Division. With the post post- George Steinbrenner era just underway, one can but wonder how long any Yankee success will last. NFL HEAD COACHES 1. What NFL franchise hilS 1he fewest lifetime head coaches? · 2. Who is the -winningest coadt in Atlanta Falcon history? 3. Who originally replaced Chuck Knox as head coach for the too An- geles Rams in 1978? 4. Of what USFL franchise was current Saints' h.ead coach Jim M()ra once head coacll? 5. Name the ()nJy New York<Hant head coach to ha. ve over 100 lifetime victories. 6. Name the ()nly head coa.cb to lead the Philadelphia Eagles toSnper Bowl play. 7. Who replaced Don Shula as !lead · · coach for the Ealtimore. C()lts in 1970? 8. How man:y New York Jet l•ead coaches have a .lifetime winningper- cental!e over .500? ! I !' ;.

l I ,, i I !. . JJuslnr~,. . .P«Jf · .R · \' .·V,.$~. · Btisines·~: Loya,.Jties. . . Faulty in the ·go·s fn This usue; Comics .. ~ ............... B6 · News . Analvsis, . Page . 5 · News Analysis ..... A5 Sports., ................... B 1 ·B·u· st'nes·s A6 A ·& E ..•. '!I' ................ B3 . .... .. ......... . Campus •.............. A 10 P~atures •. ~ .......... B6 America's. Confidence ·Shaken by Recent Terrorism The Student Newspaper of Union CoUege Since 1877 Vol. CXXH. No. 19 Sckenectady, NY Aprill5, 1993 ' \'{~ . . Residence Life Changes Lottery Rules By Alexandra Kreisler C oncordiensis Staff campus through thei1 junim year.\ The Greek houses lllllst have Campus housing has become one hundred percent a major issue over the last five occupancy, in additiott to the years. In the past, residence in de p e n d e n t b. t» llS in g , life worked with a simple and otherwise Union will lose more effective housing policy: all money. As mentioned earlier, students were to live on- Union is still suffering from its campus until their senior year, great economic loss fr()m a few no questions asked. A great years ago. Unfortunfltely for acceptance rate altered this the students, this econ~lllic loss .policy, however. On-campus has heightened the ro()rn fee housing was filled at one over the last few years .. hundred percent occupancy, Dean WWiams liste<l past which allowed juniors to be attempts to changing tile policy released off-campus. that forces students to live on- The small admission of the campus until their senior year. class of 1994 lowered the The spring lottery of 1'991 tried occupancy rate in a detrimental the \swop'' technique, where way. There were one hundred seniors could trade tlleir off- __ and fifty vacant spaces in on_.<---campus privilege with campus housing when Union underclassman for all on- open,ed that year. campus room. Sim::e this Unfortunately, Union lost a failed, Dean· Williams tried a significant amount of money, first come first serve Jist for which it is still suffering from juniors' off-campus ho11sing in today. the spring lottery of l\192. In According to Dean this case, the resideace life Williams, a number of students office tried to project how are upset about the policy that many .spaces would refilled by will be in effect for the 1993- the incoming freshme11 class. 1994 school year. Students Residence life learned tbat an entering their junior year will accurate projection c:aoaot be not be permitted to live off made as early as the :3pring, campus for the up coming due to the usual f!lllout of school year. While so many acceptances during the students are angry about this summer. The indej)endent change. Dean Williams points spaces were over one ll.u:ndred out that ••the housing policy percent occupancy when has not changed.\ She states, school opened thi:s year, \What we [Residence Life] are however, the campu:s-owned trying to do is enforce the Greek houses did not meet board of trostees' decision to occupancy at one lltmdred · reinstate tbe previous policy, percent. This caused U11ion to which is students live on- lose more money. b-ecause juniors were released too early last spring. These past attempts and faHures have brought De:an Williams and Residence Life to a new conclusion in this spring lottery of 1993. As ()f now, there are 530 acceptances expected to make-u;p the Freshman class in the Fall ()f 1993. Residence life has set out to hold 500 morning spaces for the class of 1997, and all other spaces will be thrown into the spring lottery. There are enough on-campus spaces to house the sophomores, the juniors. and the incoming freshmen. Therefore, Dean Williams has made it quite clear that absolutely. no_ one - . -· will be released to live off campus, except for the senior class. The housing policy for the spring lottery of 1993 will talce place on May 4th for the current sophomores and May 5th for current freshmen and juniors at 7:30 in Upper Class Dining. Because se11iors do not have an on-camp11s obligation, first choice housing will be opened to the current sophomores. There will be thirty singles spread out among the dorms which will be Trish Williams, Dean of Residence Life. advocates changes in room lottery for the 1993-94 school year. ~paces will be only single- sexed blocks. Another alternative is the substance-free lifestyle offered in Webster next year. There is long term discussion about renovating the dorms, building townhouses, and transforming Smith house into a research house, which would be ideal for senior theses. Yet for now, the main goal of residence life is to find the most simplified and. effective lottery system possible. Not to mention, the goal of salvaging the econemic damages of the past in order to better on- campus housing opportunities in the future. reserved for seniors. In M. · p addition, Smith House. with . · .. · entor .. fOg· ram renovations over the summer~ will be reserved as a senioQr B • N. t y· house only. Block housing is .... egtns ex . ear also available to all students. In order to encourage coed t--~·-b_y_M_i_a_·~C-a-eta_n __ o~__,_,.. living, suites (8 spaces) will be Contributing Writer only coed blocks and · six: Starting next fall there will The Tradition Continues be a unique opportunity for Freshmen at Union College. It Came to· our attention that there was something missing from the orientation of Freshmen. Specifically, after the week of Orientation, who exactly can the Freshmen go to with questions about 'how Union works? After several suggestions requesting a program. and then researching other school~s programs, we (an ad-hoc committee format e . Student forum) have come up with the Mentor Program. immediately after Orientation (others,. continuously throughout their college careers!) Wouldn't it have been great to l!ave had an upper~ glass friend who could pr<rved an outlet for all of your questions. This is what a Mentor will fulfill. The Mentor will function as a sort · of personal orientation advisor for the whole year; a big- brother/big-sister to an incoming Freshman. by Ned Walley Senior Editorial Advisor A recent mailing to all senior class members explained· this year's Senior Gift,. the1 completion of the wrought iron gate past Fero House. The mailing also asked for money from seniors. and expla!ned that if there was 1 00% participation by the class, then President Hull would match the total amount raised with his own money. Also, an interested alumnus has agreed to match whatever Hull gives. However, not mentioned in the letter was the process by which the Senior Class Gift Committee came up with this gift. After forming ,the committee in the fall, participants were un!lble to come up with a unanimously approved gift. A surv~y was sent out to the entire senior class to obtain ideas, however, there was li-ttle respo11se. A second survey was mailed with about 70 respondents - bllt still there emerged no pre-vailing gift idea. After multiple articles and advertisements in Concordiensis callillg Ollt to the senior class, there was still no gift idea Committee members spent a long time trying to fig11re out what the gift should be. For some time it looked ~ though this year's senior clas~ was going to donate m<lney to making library impro\Velnents. But, as with many bail<lings on campus. the library is scheduled to be renovated within the next few years. Therefore, the gift had a high potential of being removed or lost in the process. Finally, the idea came up concerning the completion of the fence around the school. A committee member brought up this idea as a result of personal disdain for the uncompleted structure, and the committee unanimously approved it. Since any constructio11 and/or remodeling that takes place on campus has to be cleared through the administration. Dean Mammola was contacted. The meeting that took place between committee members and Mammola was the only time the administration was Con•t on pgl The Mentor program is vecy simplistic in nature. Its goals consist ofprovi(ling a contact for the incoming Freshman with an - experienced upperclassman on campus. We all had questions about Union when we arrived on campus. Wetve all felt .·•clueless'' at some point How would it work? We would need the names of a sufficient number of current Freshmen, Sophomores. and Juniors who are interested. We would tllen randomly assign each Me11tor to one ore two incoming Fteshmen. We would provide both the Mentor and the Freshman with each · other's names, addresses and telepho~e numbers. The . Freshman could then con tact Con 't on pg2

April15, 1993, page A2 NEW:S mhr illintrDr b irnst.s Alumni News Update: Grads Enco~raged to Become More Involved Student F.,orum Spotlight Hopefully, your positive undergraduate experience at Union will translate to active alumni involvement. The Alumni Council of Union College provides a structure for the Society of Alumni. The Society includes every person who has received a degree from Unioa. College and all former full time students of Union whose class has graduated. The Council's purposes include ~ alumni representation, clearing house for communications and interchange of alumni ideas, representation of Alumni through its representatives on the Board of Trustees of the College, official Trustees of the College, official voice of Alumni to the College administration and community. For example, meeting on campus last November, the alumni approved a number of proposals aimed at strengthening the regional club structure in the next two to three years. The proposals were presented by Joseph Zolner '7 6 and Jerry Thurston '61, president and first vice president of the Alumni· Council, respectively. During the summer they had led an Executive committee review of ideas designed to more actively involved a greater nurnber of alumni. Zolner said the proposals were based on several Alumni council objectives: - To periodically inform alumni leaders about the current state of the College; - To oversee and assist with the management of important on-campus, alumni-related events, most notable, ReUnion and Homecoming: - To assess the nature and adequacy of the College's communications with the alumni body at large; - To undertake a limited number of high priority initiatives to support the College's overall objectives. Zolner said the goal is an Alumni Council that will work with the College's administration on a continuing basis. \We need to establish the infrastructure that will support College activities in such areas as admissions,, career development, and fundraising, and provide a variety of social activities.\ educational interaction among alumni,\ Thurston stated. \There are lots of things clubs can do to support those objectives, from projects to helping at high school admissions fairs and on Cafeer panels. Once we establish the best models, we want to move our efforts to other club areas that can be enhanced,\ he said. The council convened for its Spring meeting April 3, . 1993. Typical of the Council meetings, the agenda included remarks by Roger Hull. President of Unio11c· \ Senior Gift Determined con 't from pgl contacted concerning the gift. Mammola approved the students' idea, stating that the senior class could donate whatever it wished as it was their way to leave a mark on the school. As the senior class gift is the way the class of 1993 is going to be remembered at Union, it is important to note that this idea has come directly from the seniors. No administration or outside forces played a part in this decision making process, and most certainly, no one cornered the Gift Committee into coming to their final conclusion. The idea was decided upon by those members of the senior class who showed interest after the call went out to all interested members. The committee tried to come up with the best possible idea that would appeal to the majority of the senior class. It had to be feasible and committee members wanted it to be beneficial to the school. Not only will the fence improve the aesthetic ap~arance of the school, but over the next few years, as the college tries to complete the rest of the fence, it will add a great deal of security ·to those living on campus. However, since the members of the committee realize that unanimous approval among members of a large group - such as the nearly 500 members of the senior .class usually never exis~s. they desired to offer an option to those not wishing to donate to the fence. Because it is necessary to have every member of the class donate in order to achieve 100% participation and gain double the total amount in matching funds, there has been from the inception of the gift, a scholarship fund to which seniors can donate and still count towar.ds the full participation rate necessary. As seniors are contacted to donate to a gift, they have the to donate to. The:Y simply have to either mark on the check or include a note stating the destination of their donation. With only 59 days until graduation, the drive to reach full participation is increasing. With almost 20% of the class having already made a donation. and the grand total being well above $1,500, the senior class is off to a great start towards permanently leaving its mark on the college. Thurst<Jn told the. 125 council members present \it's important that we strengthen the local networks of ~lumni and gain the confidence of the administration so tl:tat we can be of real assistance.\ The council agreed to target three alumni clubs -·- Rochester, Hartfonl: and Philadelph.ia -- for s:pecial attention in 1992-93. _ The council wiU supply support, including financial, to strengthen tllese clubs. The co11ncil agreed to provide: - partial underwriting of young al11rnni receptit;>ns in Hartford, Bo~ton, Washington D. C., New: York City, and Kingston- PoughkeeJ)sie; - support for printing and mailing directories for those alumni clubs collecting dues; - suppolt for the production and publications of a club handbook; - additional travel ,expenses for an alumni volunteer and/or Alumni Offic~ staff member. \The cltlbs should provide two-way communitation between the C<Hlege activities, and provide a means of social and coliege; an update Qn the alumni cl11b initiative noted above, fi11ancial rep<:>rting, discussion of an orientation prQgraQl. review of t~e Annual Fund commitment, committee reports and appointments and awards. by Roxanne Schneider and Evalls Legros This week's Student Forum meeting dealt with a great number of issues. These issues included matters of finance, administrative details, academics, and the upcoming elections. ·On the financial forefront, we were approached by a couple of groups for additional funding. The Finance Committee also set the dates for budget .proposals deadline (Mar 7), meetings with Finance Reps. (May 8-14), and the passing cf the budgets (May 24th). On the administrative forefront, the Stude:nt Forum passed the constitution of the new Environmental Studies Society. The Committee on Committees was also able to report the results of the amendment to the Constitution (concerning students ,serving on more than one committee). With 1496 ballots cast, the amendment was passed by 81% (1209 votes). We did receive 15% against (231 votes), and 4% abstained (56 votes). Consequently, students applying for committee positions this spring will have the opporttmity to serve bn more than one committee. Also, Student Forum will be sitting at a table in the College Center this week and next to get signatures for yet another amendment concerning the Student Affairs Council. On the academic side, AAC is fmmin8 a sub-council on Academic Honesty in. order to evaluate the situation at hand.· This committee is being formed to encourage· discussion· ori the topic, and to research our needs further. · · The Election Board also met and decided that elections for Student Forum positions will be held in tw() parts. Fifth week elections will be held to elect the positions of Student Forum President, Vice-President of Finance, Vice-President of Administration, Vice-President of Academics, and Junior Trustee (current sophomores only). The elections for class represeri14tives will be held seventh week. S11ldents Interested in running for the positions of President, vice-presidents, and Trustee can pick up information and the petition in the Student Activities Office (4th floor CC) starting Friday. Petitions and statements will be due soon. Finally, announcements were made. Upcoming events include the Peer Facilitators' Diversity Series --sponsored in part by Student Forum. The Diversity Series will commence on Aprill9U..and run. through May 13th. Please look for dates and .times for events. The Student Fcrum ·felt tllis to be a worthy prQgram, l:Ul<;l encptmlges eaGh of you to atteild. · ' · Student Forum meetings are still held 011 Mondays, but are now held at 7:00 p.m. in CC 409. Please feel free to come listen and/or speak. This years graduating class, like classes before them, is keeping with tradition and planning on giving Union a gift upon their graduation. · Holocaust Remembered by Michelle EHis Contributing Writer The Jewisll Student Union is sponsori11g a Holocaust Memorial Day on Sunday, April 18th at 7:30p.m. in the College Center auditorium. Aton Segore. a Holocaust survivor, will speak in commemoration of Yom Hashoah. The JSU will conduct a brief ceremony during the evening and a short film is scheduled to play all day Monday in the College Center. It is hoped that students will come together to honor this important day so that together we can all remember the Holocaust. Wrrfia:~ JF®If Ncew~

.. ; NEWS Capital District Maureen Howard To Read From H~er, Work essays for Partisan Review, The Yale Review, The New York Times Book Review, The Washington Post Book World, and The Nation, among others. Currently. she is a visiting professor in the English Department at Yale University. For additional information contact the Writers Institute at 518-442-5620. - Directed by Theo .tblgelopoulos, long considered· one of European cinema's greatest visionary directors, LANDSCAPE IN THE MIST won the prestigious Felix award for the best European film of 1989. For additional information contact the New York State Writers Institute at 518-442- 5620. Albany, NY-- Award-winiag no:velis,t and memoirist Maureen Howard will read from her work on Thursday, April 22, 1993 at 8:00 p.m. in the Recital Hall. Performing Arts Center, on the University at Albany's uptown campus. Earlier that aftemoon at 4:00 p~m. in Humanities 354 on the uptown campus. Howard will hold an informal seminar for students, writers, and the general public. Both Howard's reading and seminar. which are free and open to the public, are sponsored by the New York State Writers Institute. Call tile Institute at 51& 442-5620 if planning to attend the seminar. Landscape Iri The Mist To Be Shown In Albany Spring Programs At Grafton State Park Howard is the author of six novels including Grace Abounding {1982) and Expensive Habits (1986), both of which received PEN/Faulkner A ward for Fiction nominations, and her most recent work Natural History(1992). Her au1obiography, Facts of Lije(1978) received the National Book Critics' Circle Award and the American Book Award. In addition. Howard has- reviewed .. fiction :and .written .. Albany, NY -- The Greek film LANDSCAPE IN THE MIST (1988, 126 mins., color, 35mm format, in Greek with English subtitles), originally scheduled to be shown on Friday, April 23, 1993, has been rescheduled for Friday, May 7, 1993 at 7:30 p.m. in Page Hall, 135 Western A venue, on the University at Albany's downtown campus as part of the Spring 1993 Classic Film Series sponsored by the New York State Writers Institute. The screening is free and open to the public. LANDSCAPE IN THE MIST is a heart-breaking allegory of the power of faith and the pitfalls of fantasy as two· children· .run away to .Gerrna.ny to fin<!_ their. father. Come to Qrafton Lakes State Park and shake off the \Winter Blues\ at a public Star Party cosponsored by the Albany Amateur Astronomers on Friday, April 24, 1993 at 9:00 pm. Viewing and interpretation of the sky will be aided by telescopes and binoculars. This program will be conducted at the beach on Long Pond and is free of charge. If the weather is cloudy or rainy the program will be held on Saturday, April 25, 1993. Please use the winter entrance on Long Pond Road for this evening program. Follow the signs past th.!j.Park office to the beach. ·On Saturday, Apri124, 1993 \Kite Day\ will be held from Report. PATE REPORTEP: TIME BEPORTEP: LOCATION: INCIDENT: 4/5193 1:04am Social Science va nda l!sm-wj ndow 415/93 2;20am Raymond House Lock prOblem 4/5/93 8;30a m Edwards House vandalism-sink 4/5/93 9;008 Q! .. West 'K!fchen Minor stove fire-no damage 4/5/93 11 :05am - ' fi!C circle MY accident-no Injuries 4/5/93 4;58pm 36 Union Ave parklna cgmplaint 4/5/93 5;02pm ZBI False fire alarm-burnt paper Life Safe!v violation issued 4/5/93 5:03pm Roadways Parking problem 4/6/93 12 ;38am West College Electrical problem §16193 2;42am Va rl ous Yanda !Ism-windows §/6/93 9:OOam CC circle Theft-traffic barricades 4/6/93 1 2:2 Ppm Potter Hoyse Vandalism -window 4/6/93 12:30pm_ 1128 Lenox · Rd 41619-3 1 ;3·0 pro Co !lege Center Unauthorized entrv-thefl 416/9.3 Z;OOpm South Terrace Contact between vehicles- No damage 4{6{93 l 1 ;Qapm Raymond House E!reworks .. 1hrown at pledges 4f6193 11:13pm Edwards House Life Safety Concern- Improper use of fire escape 4/7/93 2;15am Old Chapel 4£7/93 10:00am Adrnjn Lot 4/7/93 8 :53prn Vale Cemetery Trespass- Eratern ity 4/7/93 10;.17pm West College False tire alarm-Life Safetv VIolation Issued 4{8193 1:50am West College Vandalism-vending machine 4(8193 2 ;1 Opm Payldson House vandallsm-BoSJm Door 418193 2 ;45pm Computer Services vandalism-window 4/619 3 . 4 ;OOpm Chi Psi grounds Eou nd wa !let 418/93 4 ;40pm Potter House . Vandalism-window 418193 5 ;59pm President's Prlve parking problem 4{8193 . 11;10pm West beach Lost keys 4{9193 1:10am Potter House Harassment of Sororitv 419193 1:40am Phi Delta ThetJJ Unlawful eutry-theft 4/9/93 8:00pm Phi Delta Theta Safetv concern 419193 11:31pm New Entry Rd. Reckless driving 4/9/93 11 ;40pm Campus Operations Suspicious persons· sent on their way 4/10193 1P;15am Alexander Lane MY accident-no lnfurjes 4/jQ/93 5:28pm Whitaker Suspicious Motor Cycle 4111/93 1211 m Raymond House Vandalism-window 4111/93 Various Roadways Reckless Driving-Conduct Charges filed 4111193 2i17am Edwards House False fire alarm- Life Safety Violation Issued 4111/93 1;03!;Jm Alumni Gym Possible thoeft from ytsitf)r 4/11/93 7;30pm Hans Groot Kill pr,~ssible vandall~m-fenclng 4111/93 11:29pm West Lot Vandalism-vehicle Wl11dshield April 15, 1993, page A3 Even-ts 1:00 pm to 4:00 pm at the Deerfield Pavilion. Feel the wind in your face, the tug of the kite's string in your hand and join the fun of kite flying. Learn s0me things about weather and make a flying object of your own. Bring your favorite kite and a friend or two. Mosses. ferns and other cryptogams (not crytograms!) is a two day field course being cosponsOFed by Hudson Valley Community College Continuing Education Program on Saturday, May 15 and Saturday, May 22, 1993 from 10:00 am to 3:00 pm. This course about mosses, ferns, lichens and other small plants of the forest will give participants a chance to explore some fascinating areas at Grafton Lakes State Park with experienced botanist and teacher Michael Corey. Participants should bring a lunch, boots or old sneakers and insect repellent. The course wiU meet at the Shaver Pond Interpretive Center on Agan Road which is on the left just before the main park entrance on Route 2. Registration for the course is through H.V.C.C. Continuing Education (518) 270-7338. Attention Scuba Divers! Sunday, May 23, 1993 Taconic Valley Kiwanis Club is cosponsoring \Scuba Do\ a scuba diving event featuring divin,g competihons, demonstrations, safety information, displays and more. Proceeds from the event wiii benefit community projects and the Pediatric Trauma Unit for the Albany Medical Center. For fllrther informatioll of the register Mentors Con't from pgl the Mentor with any questions he or she might have. Upon arrival at Union, the continued relationship is really up to the students participatioll. We hope to schedule a few events throughout next year for Mentors and their freshman. The committee feels this program hru the potential for creating great relationsllips between students, who otherwise may not have met. Also it may foster a connection contact Taconic Valley Kiwanis (518) 658-3136. Celebrate Memorial Day weekend with a wildflower walk wilh the family al Grafton Lakes State Park on Saturday, May 29, 1993 at 10:00 am to 12:00 noon. This two hour walk will lead visitors on an exploration of one of the park's lovely wooded trails while seeking out Spring's beauty. More than 30 different wildflower species have been identified in previous years. Perhaps this year some new treasures will be discovered. Hand lenses and field guides are useful, comfortable walking shoes and bug spray are essential! Previous knowledge of wildflowers is not necessary. Participants should meet at Mill Pond behind the park office on North Long Pond Road. \i love Grafton Lakes State Park Community Service Days\ are being held on Saturday, June 5 and Sunday June 6, 1993. Volunteers are needed to help with a reseeding project on the Martin Dunham Reservoir Dam to prevent soil erosion. No special skills are needed but volunteers are asked to bring work gloves, sturdy shoes and a trowel or pointed stick for making the planting holes for crownvetch. For more information and to register to work please call the park office at (518) 279-1155. All park programs are free of charge and are family oriented. For more information about interpretive programs or to arrange for a program for a school or special group please contact the park interpreter at (518) 279-1155. Needed between classes that did not exist before. If we can help even one freshman. then it is worth the effort. WE NEED YOUR HELP! BECOME A MENTOR! If you are interested please sign up at the table in the College Center through out next week. Or contact the following people: Peter Savage 386-4106 Alex Sklavos 386-4112 Jon Miller 386-4167 Mia Caetano 312-3534 /JwFTER ~CLLE6E, ITS EITHER

l!rhr <llitttrnr b itltst.s Student Forum Spotlight by Roxamne Schneider and Evans Legros This week's Student Forum meeting dealt with a great number of issues. These issues included matters of finance, administrative details, academics, and the upcoming elections. On 'the financial forefront, we were approached by a couple of groups for additional funding. ~he Finance Committee also set the dates for budget proposals deadline (May 7), meetings with Finance Reps. (May 8-14 ), and the passing of the budgets (May 24th). On the administnttive forefront,. the Student Forum passed the constitution of the new Environmental Studies Society. The Committee on Committees was also able to report the results of the amendment to tile Constitution (concerning students serving on more than one committee). With 1496 ballots cast, the amendment was passed by 81% (;1209 votes). We did receive 15% against (231 votes), and 4% abstained (56 V()tes). Consequently. students applying .for committee position~ this spring will have tbe opportunity to serve bn more than one committee. Alro, Student Forum will be sitting at a table in the College Center this week and next to get signatures f()r yet another amendmentconcerning the Student Affairs Council. On the academic side, AAC is forming a sub-council on Academic Honesty in, Ofder to evaluate the situation at band. This committee is reing formed to encourage discussion on the topic. and to researclt our needs further. The Election Board also met and decided that elections for Student Forum IJOSitions will be held in two parts. Fifth week elections will be held to elect the positions of Student Forum President, Vice-President of Finance, Vice-President of Administration, Vice-President of Academics. and Junior Trustee (current sophom\res · only). The elections for class represenU!tives will be held seventh week. Students interested in running for the }JOsitions of President, vice-presidents, and Trustee can pick up information and the petition in the Stildent Activities Office (4th floor CC) starting Friday. Petition!; and statements will be due soon. Finally, a~noun.cements were made. Upcoming events include the Peer Facilitators' Diversity Series --sponsored in. part by Student Forum. The Diversity Series will comme11ce on April19~ .and run: tllrough May 13th. Please look for dates and times for events. 'Tile Student Forum felt this to be a worthy prQgram, and encow;:tges ~h of you to attend. · · · · · Student Forum meetings are still held. on Mondays,. bllt are now held at 7:00 p.m. in CC 409. Please feel free to come listen and/or~· :e cla:sses before them, is keeping with tradition and planning on giving Union a gift upon their graduation. · Remembered commemoration ()f Yom Hashoah. The JSU wiU conduct a brief ceremony during the evening and a sh<>rt film is scheduled to play all day Monday in the College Center. lt is hoped that stu.dents will come together t<> bonor this important day so that together we can all remember the Holocaust. WYrrillt~ lFCJDJf N~w~ <irhr <!Lnnrvr:b irttsi.s NEWS Capital District Maureen H,oward To Read From Her Work Albany, NY-- Award-wini.Qg novelist and memoirist Maureen Howard will read from her work on Thursday, April 22. 1993 at 8~00 p.m. in the Recital Hall, Performing Arts Center, ·on the University at Albany's uptown campus. Earlier that afternoon at 4:00 p.m. in Humanities 354 on the uptown campus, Howard will hold an informal seminar for students, writers, and the essays for Partisan Review, The Yale Review, The New York Times Book Review,. The Washington Post Book World, and The Nation, among others. Currently, .she is a visiting professor in the English Department at Yale University. For a«ditional info1mation contact tlle Writers Institute at 518-442-5620. Landscape lri The Mist To Be Shown In Albany general public. Both Albany. NY -- The Greek Howard•s reading and seminar, film LANDSCAPE IN THE Directed by 'fheo kngelovoulos, long considered· one of European cinema's greatest visionary directors, LANDSCAPE IN THE MIST won the prestigious Felix award for the best European film of 1989. For additional info1mation contact the New York State Writers Institute at 518-442- 5620. Spring Programs At Grafton State Park which are free and open to the MIST (1988, 126 mins., color, Come to Orafton Lakes State public, are sponsored by the 35mm format. in Greek with Park and shake off the \Winter New York State Writers English subtitles), originally Blues\ at a public Star Party Institute. Call the In~titute at scheduled to be shown on cosponsored by the Albany 518 442-5620 if planning to Friday, April 23, 1993, has Amateur Astronomers on attend the seminar. been rescheduled for Friday, April24, 1993 at 9:00 Howard is the author of six. Friday, May 7, 1993 at pm. Viewing and novels including Grace 7:30 p.m. in Page Hall, 135 interpretation of the sky will be Abo un ding (1982) and Western Avenue, on the aided by telescopes and Expensive Habits (1986), both University at Albany's binoculars. This program will of which received downtown campus as part of be conducted at the beach on PEN/Faulkner Award for the Spring 1993 Classic Film Long Pond and is free of Fiction nominations, and her Series sponsored by the New charge. If the weather is most recent work Natural York State Writers Institute. cloudy or rainy the program H i s t o r y ( 199 2). Her The screening is free and open will be held on Saturday, April autobiography, Facts of to the public. 25, 1993. Please use the Life(1978) received the LANDSCAPE IN THE winter entrance on Long Pond National Book Critics' Circle MIST is a heart-breaking Road for this evening pr<>gram. A ward and the American allegory of the power of faith Follow the signs past th~ark Book Award. and the pitfalls. of fantasy as office to the beach. In ad4i~pn, .H:owarq .. 11~~ .. two: children· .run away to ·On Saturday, Aprll24, 1993 reviewed fiction :and w.ritte.n_ .. Germ&!ly. to find their.f.ather. \Kite Day\ will be held frorn S'ecUrTtY · Report DATE BEPORTEP: TIME REPORTED: LOCATION: INCIDENT: 4/5/93 1:04am Social Scjence Vandalism-window 4/5/93 2:20am Raymond House Lock problem 415/93 8:30am Edwards House Yanda !Ism-sink 4/5/93 9:00am Minor stove fire-no damage 4/5/93 11 :osam gc circle MY accident-no Injuries 4/5/93 4;58pm 36 Union Aye parking complaint 4/5/93 5:02pm ZBT False fire alarm-burnt paper Life Safety Violation issued 4/5/93 s;03pm Roadways pa rk!na problem 4/6/93 12;3Bam West College Electrical problem 4/6/93 2;42am Various Va ndal!sm-windows 4/6/93 9; OOam CC circle Theft-traffic barricades 4/6/93 12 :2!Jpm Potter House Vandalism-window 4/6/93 12.;3!Jp m 1128 Lenpx · Ad Basement fl!uuied 4/6/93 1:30pm Co liege Center Unauthorized entry-thefl 4/6/93 Z:OOpm §!;outh Terrace Contact between vehicles· No damage 416193 11 ;02J2 rn Raymond House Fireworks. thrown at pledge-s 4/§/93 11 :1:1pm Edwards House life Safety Concern- lmprQper use of fire escalle 417/93 2:15am Old Chapel 417/93. 10;0!hm Admin Lot 4/7/93 8;53pom Vale Cemetery Trespa ss-Fratern jty 4/7/93 10<1Tpm West College False fire alarm-Life Safety Ylola!lon Issued 41.8/93 1:50am West Coltege vandal!sm-yendjog machine 4/8/93 2; 10pm pay!dson House vandalism-Room Poor 4/8/93 2;45pm Computer Services vandalism-window 4/8/93 4:00pm Chi psi grounds Found wallet 4/8/93 4:40pm Potter House Vandalism-window 4/8!93 5:59pm President's Prive Parking problem 4/8/93 11:1CJpm West beach Lost keys 4/9/93 1;10am Potter House Harassment of Sorority 4/9/93 1:40am Phi Pelts Theta Unlawful entry-theft 4/9/93 8:00pm Phi Delta Theta Safety concern 4/9/93 1 1 ;31 p m New Entry Rd. Reckless driving 4/9/93 11;40J;!OO Campus Operations Suspicious l}ersons- sent em their wpy 4/10/93 10:155lm Alexander Lane MY accident-no lnju ries 4/10/93 5:28pm Whitaker Suspicious Motor Cycle 4/11/93 12am Bpymond House Vpnda !Ism-window 4/11/93 Various Roadways Reckless Driving-Conduct Charges filed 4/11/93 2 ;1Ta m Edwards House False fire alarm· Life Safety VIolation Issued 4/11/93 1:03pm Alumni Gym Possible theft from ylsjtor 4/11{93 7;30pm Hans Groot Kill Possible vandalism-fencing 4/11/93 11:29pm West Lot Vanda!!sm-vehjcle windshield Eve 1:00 pm Deerfield wind in y< the kite's : and join th Learn so weather a <>bject of your favor or two. Mosses, cryptogam is a twoda cosponsore Commur Continuing on Saturd Saturday, l 10:00 am course ab lichens anc of the J participan explore sor at Grafton with expen teacher Participant lunch, boo and insect course will Pond Inte1 AganRoad just befor entrance Registratio through H.\ Education (. Attenti01 Sunday, Ma Valley K cosponsorir scuba divit di vin.g demonstr; informatio more. Procc will benf projects a1 Trauma U11 Medical Ce informatior Con't fron the Mentor 1 he or she mi: Upon arri· continued rei up to participatior schedule throughout Mentors and The comr program has creating gn between otherwise rn Also it may f

April 15, 1993, page A4 NEWS mhr (llDnr.orbirnsis Campus Trends Across the USA Rising Tuition Gives Rise to New Wave of Protest As tuition :bikes continue to outpace inflation, a new wave of caoopus protests have emergerl to fight the rising costs M college. 'Today's students are becoming more vocal than ever before about tuition imcreases which produce no ta11gible benefits for students_ Bob Rexrode, a University of Georgia student, predicts demon~trations regarding internati'onal issues may become stJbordinate to tllis new form ofeducational activism. \I thi~tk we're going to see a tremendous rise in student protests, but it's going to be aH arotJnd a particularly national issue: the cost of higher education, and what role society is going to play in funding it,\ Rexrode said. At Rutgers University this school :Year, students were upset over fee hikes and then denied money for their student lobbying group, so they disrupted a Board of Govemors meeting and two undergraduates were arrested by campus police for disorderly conduct. More than 60 Syracuse University students blocb1ded the entrance to a building where tile school's trustees were scheduled to vote on a proposed tuition increase. Detoured hy the sit-in, the trustees decided to reconvene the meeti11g at a nearby hotel. After b-eing notified of tile change, th.e Syracuse protestors followed the trustees to the hotel but ~ere denied entrance and the b()ard mandated a 6.5 percent tuition increase. Students Lhen marched back to the chancellor's office and stomped their feet, causing \a cloud of ·dust as plaster was shaken off of the walls,\ according to The Daily Orange campus newspaper. In addition to tuition hikes, educational issues such as racial diversity among professors, smaller classes, and greater class offerings have motivated students to join together and speak out this year. Minority students from William• Penn College threatened to leave the scl10ol at two carnpus forums. The ultimatums were levied because the students believed the school did not do enough in recognition of Black History Month. Tl1ey also cited a lack of minority faculty members at the schood. In response, administrators have set up committees to deal directly with the protestors. A 3.5 percent cut in state appropriations forced Lock Haven University to cut a number of classes this year. News of Lhe cuts led to a dcmonstrati()n by about 500 students outside the campus ad m i n is t rat ion b u i I din g. Students cnmplained bcca11sc many of the discontinued sections were required for graduation. University President Craig D. Willis agreed to meet with student leaders to work out an agreement. Abortion Controversy Sparks Student Activism Perhaps the most polarizing issue around which students organize today is the question of abortion rights. Pitting the pro-choice · assertion of a woman's right to self- governance against the moral and religious fervor of the pro- life movement, the controversy surrounding this issue has forced many young people to take an active stand. \Students really are staying involved, either way; not just necessarily on the liberal side. We have people from all facets getting out there and letting people know how they feel,\ said Catherine Carey, 21-year- old director of the University of Arizona's Students for Choice organization. Students throughout Arizona mobilized rece11tly to help defeat Proposition ~ 10, which would ·have greatly< limited access to abortion in·· the state of Arizona. Suzanne Poland, field organizer for the Illinois office of the National Abortion Rights Action League (NARAL), contends that the effectiveness of student groups is often overlooked. \When it comes to activism, some people write off student groups because they tend to move and change fairly regularly, but they're very worthwhile because they have a great deal of energy,\ Poland said. In some instances, students are using this energy to literally put their bodies where their beliefs are. Jennifer Morson, a freshman at Franciscan University, bas been arrested \about 45 times\ for hindering patie11ts' access to abortion clinics. \College students are the main part of any revolution. It's where a lot of strength lies in a movement,\ asserted Morson, a member of the anti- abortion group Youth for America National. \It's definitely a heated issue, especially since a lot of abortions are for people age 15 to 25.\ · Students on both sides of the issue were stunned by the recent shooting death of Dr. David Gunn outside a clinic in Pensacola, Florida. \I think it's atrocious,\ said Kate Hoch, an officer at the University of Illinois at Chicago's chapter of Students for Choice. \I don't see any reason why a man has to be shot over this. I think that's pretty extreme.\ \It's the hypocrisy of the whole movement,\ said Carey. \They destJ'G)y property and they destroy lives and they destroy a woman's experience. It's not lilce anyone wants to have an abortion, it's not like anyone enjoys having an abortion.\ Morson, while disagreeing with Hoell and Carey on the question of.choice, echoed their sentiments. \I'd bav.e to say that I don't agree at all with what that man did,\. Mori>on said. \I feel it was wrong to kill the abortionist.. It certainly wasn~t the right ()f someone else to take his life.\ Cooperatives Offer Housing Alternative Throughout North America. students are leaving traditional dorm life behind and moving into stmdent housing cooperatives. According to reports fmm the North American Students of Cooperatio11 ~NASCO), more than 165 co-ops in the U.S. and Canada serve approximately 10,000 students. A large plllt of the appeal of cooperative living is the stronger role tenants play in the daily afflairs of the building. \Cooperative living provides students with a chance to takie an active voice in the governance of their living space,\ said Robert Cox, executive director ofNASCO. Because cooperatives are corporationsdedicated. solely to service rather than profit, the benefits of shared responsibility are numerous. Officials &f the Campus Cooperative Development Corporation report that, on the average, co-o:p students pay 20 to 50 percent less for rent than other university-.area housing, including dormitories. \It's the ideal living situation,\ sai<i Shawn .Ranger, a member of The Chateau, one of the oldest cooperatives in the west. \I pay $400 per month for everything: a room, good food~ And we're completely democratized- I have a say in wbatever goes on around here.\ The work outlay required of each student m the complex is kept to a minimum, generally averaging four tc five hours per week .. However, by taking over cleaning and cooking chores which dormitories traditionally contract out, member create substantial savings. An increase in numbers also brings an increase in buying power, meaning that students not only save an average of $25 per month on their food bills, but also are able to afford amenities nom1ally out of their reach.. For example, a $200 VCR split among 20 tenants becomes a $10 VCR. Each member is thus guaranteed the rights of ownership without the biJrden of individual costs. Many argue that cooperatives are becoming the Greek system of teh 1990s. The two systems do sllare ·the same ideals .of community bonding: and group awareness.., Cooperatives, however, have never ·been accused of homogeneous standards. \It's and environment which allows us to be who we want,\ Ranger concluded. College Dorms -close as Economy Falters \A few years ago we had waiting lists and were reserving rooms in the Howard Johnson for our students,\ said David Stephan, associate director of residential life at Arizona: State·- University.· \Now we have several thousand fewer freshPJ,an and it has had a dramatic effect on our occupancy rates.\ Arizona State and other campuses like it have seen a significant decline in the number of out-of-state students, primarily due to large fee hikes. Arizona State officials e.xpect to save money by closing the residence halls because the university will be spared. the price of maintenance staff, utilities, resident assistants and huge costs. Concurrently, Arizona 'State plans to lure students to dorm life by offering quiet floors and study rooms for commuter students. Seniors will receive a 10 percent rebate. \We can't sit here idly,\ Stephan said, \We've got to market aggressively to graduate students and upperclassmen.\ Public and private schools alike are shutting down donnitories. The University of - - -- National Student News Service Maine closed four of its oldest residence halls and a dining ball this fall because fewer freshmen enrolled. The number of freshmen dropped by 15 percent in 1992 to around 1 ;700 students. A dormitory at the · University of Hartford closed following a dip in entollment and transfer students last fall- the numbers were down .about 29 percent from the .previous year. The Univer.sity of Massachusetts in Amherst closed a residence hall with 560 beds. In the boom years of the 1980s, both U. Mass and Hartford bad almost fully occupied residence halls. Oregon State University dosed two of its halls and· half of · another. Whitworth·College · closed two ·~m-campus housing facilities last year and allawed homeless people to live in one of them. Many .schools consider housing departments to be auxiliary operations and not part of fiscal budgets. Consequently, dormitories must depend on rent to survive. If too many rooms are vacant, universities are 'forced to cut staff members and close halls to balance the budget. · The result is that housing directors now try to make residence balls look more attractive to potential residents. Housing· directors. say that many students are used to having their own rooms with private telephones, cable TV and other amenities. Students do not want to live with a roommate, share the bathroom or eat in the cafeteria. Oklahoma State University now offers several incentives to persuade students into choosing dorm life. School officials now extend discounts on single rooms for upperclassmen. Microwave ovens are available in dorm lounges, and more flexible meal plans are offered. Think S . ' pr1ng. Artwork by Andy Singer ' ' . I I ! t I I ' l 1 f

NEWS ANALYSIS April 15, 1993, page AS A Growing Concern for Terrorism on American Soil by Veronica Rogers News Analysis Editor Should Americans he more fea-rful of terrorism on American soil? It seems that through 1he changing times our once protective feeling of se.curity has been progressively eaten :away. Fear for our welfare is not only bred in acts of terrorism in the United States, but it also can be manifested in our fear of :loss of nationalism throughout our country. Although terrorism, whether it is actually increasing in existence here or not, is a very scary reality, and is supplemented by our anxieties about the state of the nation. Americans have always dealt with large scale acts of violence or more simple acts of terrorism from . a distant perspective. On the m~ws · we hear ~bo~t bombings in London and Paris .in downtown cafes, and about an attack on a bus carrying orphans out of besieged Bosnia. We mourn, and sympathize, but we cannot truly understand. Imagine yourself sitting inside of Friendly's (I know it's not a great thought anyway), all of the sudden half the restaurant blows up right in front of your eyes and you see people who were previously . ~· ',' ,' ', . •: ,., ,IJy Ca:oaig. Greenberg-, · WorJdNews Editor MOSCOW -- A copy of a top secret document written by a senior North Vietnamese general to the Communist Party Politburo in 1972 was recently discovered by a Harvard researcher in the newly accessible archives of the Soviet Communist Party. The report has been , authenticated by experts and has been circulated among United States Government officials. 'A Harvard researcher now estimates that more than 700 American prisoners of war' remain.' The document states that North Vietnam was holding 1 ,205 American prisoners of war in the fall of 1972. This is a contradiction to the 368 prisoners of war which North Vietnam had claimed to be in possession of at that time. The author of the document, General Tran Van Quang, then Deputy Chief of Staff of the North Vietnamese Anny, stated in the memo that 1,205 American prisoners of war were located in prisons of North Vietnam, and that he was keeping the true number of prisoners secret, as requested by the Politburo. Under the peace agreement between North Vietnam and the United States, 591 prisoners of war were returned to the U.S. On April 1, 1973, Hanoi returned the last of the 59 I prisoners and said that they had no more American piisoners in sitting and e~ting, lying on the ground mangled from the explosion. Later upon listening to the news you hear that the bomb's credit was taken by the angry workers of a McDonalds on State St. {Silly example but I didn't want to offend a more political organization). Do you understand it any better now? Wouldn't you be angry at the senselessness of the killing, and the innocence of the victims? . Although this threat in the past has been more of a \fantasy\ for Americans, foreign countries deal with the anger and destruction that inflict their nations. often by neighboring countries or by specific groups within one country quite continuously. With the animosity many foreigners feel for the United States, shouldn't the. idea of terrorism acts in the U.S. be more of a possibility than a fantasy? The World Trade Center bombing in New York City is the most recent example of a terrorist act on U.S. soil. Five people who were near tile explosion died which is amazing considering the number of people who occupy the \city in the sky\ every day. Authorities trying to discover who bombed such a well known landmark got many captivity~ . · . A Harvard researcher now ~stimates that more than 700 American prisoners of war remained in North Vietnamese prison camps at the time of Operation Homecoming in 1973. WASHINGTON-- Secretary of Defense Les Aspin hinted last week that women will probably be allowed to serve in combat, on board ships. and to fly combat p1anes. Such a change in military policy is in conflict with a recent presidential commission's recommendations. However, this commission did vote to allow women the right to setve on combat ships. · Ai<l;es to the Secretary of Defense have said that it may be months before the Pentagon acts to allow women the right to fight. SARAJEVO, Bosnia and Herzegovina -- Muslims in Bosnia and Herzegovina are facing the new threat of starvation. The United Nations had promised to provide them with food aid, since it was unwilling to supply military intervention. United Nations officials responsible for gathering food from donor governments have expressed great concern for food supplies. There is virtually no food left in warehouses around Bosnia, and there is little additional food promised by donor nations such as Western Europe, Japan, Canada, and the United States. Airlifts have been delayed to make the limited, remaining supplies phone calls with false information about the origins. One phone call clairned that it was Serbian resisumce to any possible U.S. intervention as the motivating factor for the bombing. That possibility was eliminated when ffi()re real:istic suspects came to the attention of authorities. How li:ttle we really know about -wllat makes a terrorist is a scmy t:lling. One of the suspected acct>mplices was a 1991 graduateofRutgers University. Alth.o11gh his ethnic background is Palestinian, he had become a U.S. citizen a few years after he graduated. So ·much for palriotism huh? According to repoits, since 1950 there have been approximately 13 majCilr tbreats or acts of terrorism on U.S. soil. Th'e backgrolln<i of the acts have changed patterns based on ethnicity. From 1950- 1977 the major acts of terrorism were perfo111led by Puerto Ricans. fr()m the attempted assassimJion on Truman's life to the bombing of the FBI headquarters in New York City. After the 7Cl's there was a mix of Middle 'Eastern and Japanese and still some Puerto Rican acts. Who should we fe!ll' now? Iraqi terrorists? Serbians who don't want us to intervene? Or last'longer. · · ·' People managin~ food deliveries in Bosnia luve said that it may already be too late to prevent an additional di£aster from occurring. ISRAEL Alt:bough violence is not new to, Israel and the occupied tenitories, the magnitude and ferocity of the latest incidents ha:; been steadily increasing. Recent bloodshed has typically been caused by a random AmJ>. ~tttack followed by a quick Israeli response. Violence committed on both sides has been increasingly harsher than usual, claiming the lives of 13 IsraeliS' and 25 Palestinians in the last month alone. The escalating violence has cost lives, domestic sup)lOrt for Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin's peacemaking !J<)Iicies, and has threatened· the IJeace negotiations planned to resume in Washington on April 20. Last week, Rabin sealed &ff the occupied territories indefmi1ely in an effort to cool tensi()ns. Israeli papers have recently listed places to buy mace and brass knuckles for p~rs()nal defense. In marcl1, a Palestinian stabbed five high- school students and tlleir principal. ·Soon after this attack, Rabin recornm e11ded that teenagers carry dubs to school, and Police Chief Ya'acov Temer advised I.s~el's citizens to carry guns. lloth men later recanted their statements. · Reasons for the increqse in violence include the 'ri:sing number of free-lance Arab assailants and a presetlce of more sophisticated weapoiJll'. maybe Bosnians who are mad that we aren't intervening? Maybe even Americans themselves. After the World Trade Center bombing, authorities received over ninety other bomb threat notifications, all of which were false. I may be exaggerating a bit, or maybe I am just paranoid, but why does it seem that all politics are now are \catch 22's\? Can we ever do the best thing possible for the most people possible? Or is it that the United States has this irreversible label of the country that all other countries love to hate? Americans ideally want to promote peace and unity (doesn't that .seem naive and optimistic, yet still ideal?). We have people who hate us for seeming to be overly righteous for trying to create peace and unity, and then we get stuck in the no win situation again. Where do we go from there? Do we press on in our attempts to uphold our position as a world superpower, or do we discredit our nation for it's lack of unity arid give into the pressures of other crumbling governments I.E. the former Soviet Union, Czechoslovakia, and Serbia. Is that the way the world is turning? Are terrorist acts on U.S. soil llecome something more expected, than just as a possibility? How can we reverse the incoming tide of fear of loss for personal security from terrorist acts when we can't even figure out how to secure ourselves as a natioo? Wltat do President Clinton's responsibilities include? Should he work hard to protect the airports, spend money on protecting diplomats, and other citizens in trying to maintain a \sense\ of security? First President Clinton has to work on the psyche of the American population. Security doesn't just come from having anned men frisking travelers at an airport. It comes from within the people, there needs to be confidence with every individual that our country is a stab,le, even with imperfections, society. Although I am a democrat, Clinton singing \Don't stop thinking about tomorrow\ {the campaign theme song), by Fleetwood Mac isn't going to make me feel better about my future. I still wish I felt the security I once felt when I was a naive and ignorant elementary school kid. \90\.JST \l

Qihr @vnrnrbirnsis The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenectady, New York April 15, 1993 Editor-in-Chief Executive Editor News Editors News Analysis Editor Features Editors Layout Editors Copy Editor OP-ED Editor Arts Editors Sports Editor Business & Finance Editor Science & Health Editor World News Editor Advertising Editors Campus News Editor Photo Editor Decision Student David Levine Deb Mcinerney Matt Karlyn, Carolin~ Paine Veronica Rogers Doug Bartell, Erin O'Neil Lisa Lemoi, Buffy Rubenstein Heather Reynolds Beth Lifson Belinda Crago, Niki Goldin, Talley Belsinger · Dagan La Corte Dylan Ratigan Eileen Colkin Ciaig Greenberg Sharon Smith, Fran Goldstein, Jodie Adams Kate Cartland Brianna Patnode Making and Activities Extra-curricular activities are very important in promoting personal growth in college. They instill a good work ethic, provide social opportunities, and. involve students in learning how to make worthwhile decisions. One of the unique aspects of having student run organizations is that they have jurisdiction to make fiscal decisions with money that is channeled into a student activities fund through a yearly student activities fee. Organizations that bring in revenue through advertising campaigns should be able to spend this money to better themselves. In absence of allowing organization leaders to decide how to spend the money that has been made thrQugh hard work within the club, there are few incentives for individuals to become thoroughly involved in these activities. The job of being editor-in-chief of Concordiensis is · gruelling. The responsibilities associated with the position are large. In addition to overseeing all aspects · of the production process, the editor is responsible for. making sure that the newspaper is financially secure. It has been estimated that this job takes at least 35 hours a week. In the absence of being paid, or receiving course credit for the service that the editors provide to the college community, to not allow them to have a significant amount of decision power 0-n llow to spend the additional revenue that the newspaper brings in, is ridiculous. · The notion that club presidents are incapable of making decisions about how to spend money is offensive. Students should be more than just 1 advisors' when it comes to the spending of their student activities money. Associate Photo Editors Josh Haines. Scott Steele Associate Editor David Fischer Opinions columnists Mirriarn Seddiq, Amy Cypress Senior Editorial Advisors Ed Walley, Lara Chamberlain Senior Financial Advisor Pam Leinson Senior Sports Advisors Hal Poret, Rich Morgan Subscription Manager Matt Grabowski Computer Manap;er Brett Saunders Associate Sports Editors Lee Schachter, Greg Kalish Staff Writers : Thor Benander, Bruno Benzaquen, Michelle Ellis, Cindy Hills, Greg Kalish, Alex Kreisler,. Alexis Leist, Pam Lin, Craig Pike, Chris Ringwald, Lee Schachter, Dass Seaman. Submissions : All submissions to Concordiensis are due the Tuesday before publication at 4PM if they are submitted on Macintosh Microsoft Work Disks. Otherwise all submissions are due Monday by 4PM in the drop box outside of the Concordiensis office on the third floor of the College Center. Concordiensis is published nine Thursdays a term by the student body of Union College, Schenectady, New York 12308; Subscription rate: $40 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. Mail subscriptions to Box #2577 •. College Center, Union College. Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP). Office Telephone (518) 370-6155. Advertising Telephone (5 I 8) 370-6494. BliT 1t01< 10 ABORr THE LifE. ·CfA~! OPINIONS The Dialectic's Demise Beth M. Lifson Opinions Columnist All of us, upon entering Union, had drastically different interests. Some of us came to participate on athletic teams. some came to immerse themselves in academics. while others came just to party. Whatever our particular field . of interes.t rpight, .hav~ weq,. tllough .. y,re all shared the goal ·of intellectual growth and learning in common. The focus 1 on this goal. however. seems to become somewhat blurred as our time at U ni<>n passes. The process of intellectual growth can be examined as a dialectical process. Each of us has our own set of ideas and beliefs at the present moment. These ideas, of course, have their antitheses. Through the conflict and challenge these opposites present to each other and the struggle that ensues as this challenge is met, intellectllal growth is accomplished. It is only through this struggle that new ideas can be born. The challenge of the antithesis allows one to reflect upon and contemplate their own beliefs. This reflection and contemplation leads to a resolution of opposites and a new set ideas, either congruent with or · opposite to the previous beliefs, or a synthesis of the two sets, is realized. This is how growth and learning occurs-- it is through the discarding of the old with a new outlook more fully contemplated than the previous. The cycle continues as the new ideas are challenged by their antitheses, and so on. It is through the cyclical stevs of this process by which intellectual expansion is attained. Only when there is conflict~ cballl.enge, and struggle can o11e grow aild change, and thus le:arn. This process, although one of our foremo:St goals as students (and lluiiim beings), is not fully actualized here at Union. What perpetuates this growth . process is the expression of id~s and the conflict that follows such cc;mtroversial expression. This necessitates the public - exciD:mge of id~-- if ideas are- not presented, challenged and then resolved, tllis cycle and in turn growth, comes ·to an eventual standstilL The result of this stagJLation is ignorance, misinformation. and apathy. The lack of partioeipation in the public expression of ideas, which is integral to the dialectic of i11tellectual growth, inhibit:S all of us from reaching oar full potential. Not onJy is your process of growth! stifled by not presenting :yoUI ideas, but my growth is stagnated as well, as your i!leas might provide an antithesis to my own. Such public expression should be hel<l in utmost regard as it is wlutt carries out this coveted dialectic. The ignorance lllld apathy that is frequently discussed when referrin1l to Union's student body cannot always be equated witm narrow- mindedness and a blatant lack of concern. Ignormce is bred from a lack of infoomation. If opposing idea.s are not presented and c<Jnfi'onted, one will never qu.estion and contemplate , o11e's own beliefs. This is what perpetuates aiJatlly and ignorance. The e:xpression of ideas must be freely pursued in order to alleviate the homeostasis tl111t . breeds ignorance and aJJathv. One of the mest effective forums for public ,expression is the newspaper. The Concordiensis is just one of the outlets to be employed for such expression that is not used to its full capacity. We ,as students at Union; have this medium a~ our disposal, yet it is not taken full advantage of. Each week the Concordiensis receives roughly 25 student written articles for publication. but of 2.000 intelligent students su.p.}lose~lly cJe_cJicated to .the ·pmsu~t of intellectual grQWth, only 25 choose to participate in the- dialectic process through this most effective means. This lack of participation affects us all. It replaces the energetic atmosphere created by the dialectic with stagnation and stoicism. If our ideas and beliefs are not corrstantly questioned and challenged, we will leave Union being no more enlightened than when we arrived. We would &e abandoning one of our first and foremost goals in the pursuit of higher education. The atmoSphere our inactivity creates is in no way conducive to growth and expansion, but rather a stunting of our minds and our formulation of ideas. In order to stimulate and continue the process of illtellectual growth, each one of us must actively participate in the struggle between ideas using the various forums for expression available to us. Participation ill the publication of the ~oncordiensis is essential to tltis process. Unless we start taking this medium seriously. tltis process and our growth will stagnate and eventually cease. By not taking Concordy seriously, we are failing to take intellectual growth, one of our primary concerns as students, seriously. The Concordiensis Staff would lilce to extend an apulogy to those members of the Sentinel who were offended by a statement that appeared in last week's Concordiensis. We most certainly do not discourage people from writing for the Sentinel.

Qlhf dl.onrvr~ irttsts OPINIONS April15., 1993, page A7 CUSTER'S LAST ST_AND Mirriam and Amy's Last Words by Mirriam Seddiq and Amy Cyres Opinions Columnists As you can probably guess ·from the title of this piece;· these are realiy our last words (not to those of you fortunate enough to be graced by our everyday presence you understand). We simply feel that- we must explain why we are leaving; thank thOse who have kept .us going, and expand our horizons. We are taking our show on the road More Student Activism a.nd Oiverslty in Student Activities To the Editor: Later this term, the Student Forum will hold elections for tbe 1993-1994 school year. I am taking tJris opportunity to write and· enc6urag·e' .m'ore ~ students to become involved.. ' First Point: Almost half of the c11rrent members of the Stude11t Forum ran unopposed last Spring. Only two juniors ran for senior· class representative, so another election had to be held this fall to elect a third senior officer. Students have so much to say at Crosstalks. Town Meetings and other open forums throughout the year. Why don't more of you run for office and take on a leadership role? I have twice served on tile Forum in the capacity of class representative and I am currently the Vice President of Academics. Each year I have been disappointed by the lack of interest and involvement in Student Forum elections. It leads to a Jack of diversity on the Forum. This year I am one of three Independent members, (all of whom are graduating), on a Forum of twenty-one people.. Moreover this year, five. males were members of the same fraternity and four women were members of the same sorority. It would be nice to have the ideas and input of a more representative group. I am not trying to suggest that every member of a particular organibation automatically shares the same values and ideals. I am, however, pointing out the potential. Second Point: Few people seem to realize the importance of College committees. Eacll year the Vice President of Administration and the Committee on Committees (COC) reviews student applications and makes appointments._ to College committees including, the No, really .... It has recently come to our attention, as to all other readers ofthe Concordiensis, that we are no longer needed. We just mean that we never really achieved what we set out to do. Sure, we got some follcs riled up (you know who you are), received some· hairy eyeballs, a death threat or two, and some muttered commentary, but we feel as if we're preaching to the converted. We're not giving up on Union College, or 'even the world in general, but we're Student Affairs Committee (SAC), the Academic Affairs Committee (AAC), Conduct Committee, Traffic Appeals, Concert Committee, Social Committee, Film Committee, and Speakers Forum. A great deal of decision making, which affects our entire student body, comes out of the work of these committees. This year it took almost an entire term to fill all of the committee positions because of the lack of applications. In:~Qrt, !11~ ·points.lhat {run m~iri}t.:.~¢~·3- great' deal' of important de.cisions are made by a few members of our student body. There needs to be more involvement, and that can only happen when more people run for office this Spring and more people apply for committee positions next fall. I hope to see a greater sense of activism this year. Respectfully, Karen Hurwitz '93 More on Multiculturalism To tile Editor: I am writing in response to Beth Lifson's bold, articulate, and inspiring article, \Multiculturalism and Union: Are We Left Behind\ (Apr 8 issue). I hope that it will help influence Union students, faculty, and administration to think more critically about the role college curriculum plays in defining many of the political, social, and cultural aspects ofits community. Last spring, I graduated from Union as a.I1 English major. In September, I began working towards my MA in English Education at Teachers College, Columbia University. In my classes, I was presented with a rich and diverse reading list, filled with titles of books and names of authors I had never encountered before. It amazed my fellow graduate students not giving in to \safe'' opinions and we as a team feel that's what's wanted. We just won't doit. There's also the question of comfort and security. When we first started writing for this fine publication, ·we felt comfortable and secure in the knowledge that the Concordiensis staff apprec- iated our efforts -~ hey, it's not the most glamorous job going. And now, suffice it to say, things have changed. Maybe we're too old to deal with that particular kind of change. On LETTERS that I had not heard of Maya Angelou, and that I had not read Toni Morrison, Willa Cather, or even Alice Walker. My knowledge of literature, I soon discovered, was called \the cannon\ by those who were polite, and \The Dead White Men\ by those who were a bit more straightforward. My God, I wondered, had I ever read a novel in college written by someone still living? Or by a woman other tllan Virginia Woolf! Did it matter? Yes. - I now khow· .that it matters ·a great deal. At the time, it didn't occur to me to look outside of what was required (Shakespeare, 2-3 British surveys, 1 American), figure out what was missing, and why it was missing. I loved what was .given to me, and so I stayed with it. My senior year, Native American and African American Lit courses were introduced into the curriculum, but I didn't have the time. We must all make the time. The voices found in literature (as well as in historical accounts, philosophy ... ) written by African Americans, Native Americans, Latin Americans, Jewish, Irish, and Japanese Americans are the voices of all of us. By omitting their stories from our curriculum, and those written by other peoples, we have indeed omitted them from our lives. If we are te be well- ro~nded, open thinkers we must see the full range of history, listen to and become familiar with cultures and backgrounds different from our own. At Union, we do not take time to celebrate people's diverse experiences, but rather find ways to show that we are all alike. After spending time during Homecoming Weekend speaking with Edvige Giunta and other professors, I learned that introducing many new courses into the curriculum is not the most feasible way to broaden Union's cultural scope. Given the realities of Union-- we are not \University size\ and therefore cannot offer a hefty catalog of classes each to the happier portion of ,this article ... Thanks. It's a small word to encompass tbe encouragement we've received from a few special people. They've made it aU worthwhile. First, to the man, the myth and the legend •. former editor-in-chief. Nedweird Walley, you're the one who made us feel comfortable and secure. Peter Meyers, Louisa Matthew,. Robert Phelan, Hugh Jenkins,. for being people we coultl count on. Very special thanks term-- we must look for alternative strategies of \diversification.\ What we must do is loosert the boundaries of our existing curriculum and make room for great thinkers whom we have overlooked in the past. Our goal should not be to segregate African, Native, and Latin American · writers into tneir own neat courses of study, but rather to integrate their voices and stories into our pre· existing classes. Union College, as I understand it, was · founded on the belief that there could be a coming together, a \Union of all faiths.\ Let the college live up to its name. \Faith\, after all, is deeper than religion. It touches on the intricate beauties a11d diversities of the human spirit. Sincerely, Julie Meadow, '92 Concordiensis Unprofessionalism To the Editors: On behalf of the Editorial Board of The Union Sentbzel, I would like to express my extreme disappointment in the lack of professionalism that The Concordiensis displayed on page 9 of the April 8. 1993. issue. This is in reference to the advertisement which stated. \For the bicentennial: B ypa:ss the Sentinel, Work for Concordi.\ For no appare11t reason, you have attacked The Union Sentinel, which could have created pointless and unnecessary animosity betwee11 our two pape1·s. Mr. Levine and Mr. Walley. as co-Editors-in-Chief. it is your responsibility to ensure consistent professionalism ancl tact in both your staff and your paper. This repugnant ancl unwarranted attempt to try to sway the student body from contributing to The Unio1z _ Sentinel is not only obnoxious but an embarrassment. Our two papers are not i11 competition~ the papers are to Scott Scullion for being tlle Man. And most especially Edi Giunta for just being. To om loyal entourage, Bret, Bevan. Pete, and all our friends wh<J have to deal with us ( if we name you all we'll make other people feel jealous of how popular we are). As far as looking out on our new horizons ... catch us on Oprah, or perhaps in a literary journal near you. Who knows? You're not getting rid of us so easily. Ifs been surreal. Bye. wholly different: T h e Concorlfiensis for important college information and Th£ Union Sentinel to provide .a forum for the college community to discuss and analyze significant issues. I sincerely hope that in the future you will try to instill in your staff an attitude which embraces community rather than animosity, dignity rather than carelessness, and professionalism rather than repugnancy. · Sincerely, William I. Wolff '94 Editor-in-Chief The Union Sentinel Health trends in the U.S. A new survey shows worsening food habits, more stress offsetting preventive health gains since 1983. 1983~ 1991 1992 • Strenuous exercise three or more days a week ~: • Are not overweight 42'\/a 37 34 • Get seven or eight hours of sleep most nights I :·tsf • Either never drive after drinking or don't drink at all r~ 6 ryk SOURCE: A L()UIS Harris poll for Baxter International of 1 .251 adults Dec. 1992

April 15, 1993, page A8 LETTERS ~r· illonrvrbirnsis A.L .. A.S Asks for Cultural Equality at Union To the Union College \community\: Four years ago the African and Latino AHiance ·of Students, with hopes and intentions of building upon the educational experience of the entire community, put forth and di'Scussed a list of suggestions/demands with the President of the College and the Board of Trustees. Having experi-enced a very disheartenit~g response to these requests, we have been forced to re-submit these· and more demands. Following strict business protocol, on March . 19, 1993 formal letters were sent to the Board of Trustees. President Hull, the Deans of the College, and the Chairperson of the Academic Affairs Council awakening them to the reality of the issues they have been sleeping on for the past three years. It is of grave importance that the Union College community move as a cohesive. structured unit towards the implementation of these demands. Our demands do not reflect any wish for the further separation of the campus community, conversely, we live every w.~ing moment with the mission of defending the rights of our existence on a parallel level with the rest of humanity. The demands call for the immediate appreciation and recognition of all cultural perspectives as part of the American experience and our . Union experience. I implore you all, as students and educators, as we all have the ability to teach and learn, to question yollr place at Union c'ollege. Our mission. is not complete once we have received an acceptance letter or job placement at Union College. In order to validate our place at this institution of higher learning we must both receive and give back to Union. As it stands n~w. the college is doing a disservice to the entire community. Hundreds of graduates enter the \real world\ every year ill-prepared to compete with graduates of other institutions. The brick wall that lies. between them is the historical wall of multi- cultural ignorance and irresponsibility at Union. With this article the African and Latino Allian<:e of Students challenges and welcomes the community to join us in our efforts to propel Union from the Stone Ages ·into the Twenty-First century. By joining us you would be fighting for: the creation of a Multicultural Affairs Office; that would deal with any issues concerning multiculturalism, an expansion of the Latin American Studies Program to incorporate studies of the Caribbean, an expansion of the Modern Languages Dept. to include languages of growing populations in the U.S., the implementation of a term Supplemen:t their brief telephone calls by subscribing to The Concordiensis, the newsy weekly newspaper Follow his/her college life as well as the college careers of their fraternity brothers and fellow students as they are chronicles on the general news, the editorial and sports pages; in the news, features, editorial, enteitainment, scientific, scientific, and sports column of the student newspaper. Keep up with the doings of his/her faculty, and the administration of his college by reading the only Union student publication that is devoted solely to the news of Uni oD. and Union students 24 issues mailed the afternoon of publication direct from the press room cost $40~00. Or receive .three years subscription fot: $100.00. Merely fill out the inclosed card and drop it in a mail box. · Qthr <!Lvllfllrbirn.sis FOLLOWS THEM BY TYPE & PICTURE THROUGH UNION Send THE Co:\CORDIE~srs to: N .'\J\-! E STREET .A.KD 1\:c MBER CITY i\1\\D STATE Abroad to the contment of Africa, a Non-Western History Track in the General Education Curriculum, the implement- ation of a required Human Diversity Seminar to Gen. E<L, and the creation of an Africa11a Studies Program. This list is by no means absolute and represents only our deepest and most pertinent concerns at the moment. I must repeat that everyone at Union has a ves~d interest in our efforts to build this community. as they will only gain from them. We do not wish to dismantle the European contrib11tion to history, we only wish to exist on a parallel plane, .only then can we call ourselves sisters and brothers. 01Jf meetings are e.very Monday at 6:00 p.m. in Bronner House. Always true to the mission, Joe X. Kotright Gonzalez Jr. A.L.A.S. Co-Chair

April15, 1993, page A8 LETTERS OChr · <UDnrDrb frnsi£ AoL.A.S Asks for Cultural Equality at Union To the Union College \community\: Four years ago the African and Latino Alliance of Stullents. with h<Jpes and intentions of building upon the educational experience of the entire community, put forth and discussed a list of suggestions/demands with the President of the College and the Board of Trustees. Having experienced a very disheartening response to these requests, we have been forced to re-submit these and more demands. Following strict business protocol, on March 19, 1993 formal letters were sent to the Board of Trustees, President Hull, the Deans of the College, and the Chairperson of the Academic Affairs Council awakening them to the reality of the issues they have been sleeping on for the past three years. It is of grave importance that the Union College community move as a cohesive, structured unit towards the implementation of these demands. Our demands do not reflect any wish for the further separation of the campus community, conversely, we live every w;tking moment with the mission of defending the rights of our existence on a parallel level with the rest of humanity. The demands call for the immediate appreciation and recognition of all cultural perspectives as part of the American experience and our Union experience. I implore you all, as students and educators, as we all have the ability to teach and learn, to question your place at Union College. Our mission is not complete once we have received an acceptance letter or job placement at Union College. In order to validate our place at this institution of higher learning we must both receive and give back to Union. As it stands now, the college is doing a disservice to the entire community. Hundreds of graduates enter the \real world\ every year ill-prepared to compete with graduates of other institutions. The brick wall that lies between them is the historical wall of multi- cultural ignorance and irresponsibility at Union. With this article the African and Latino Alliance of Students challenges and welcomes the community to join us in our efforts to propel Union from the Stone Ages into the Twenty-First century. By joining us you would be fighting for: the creation of a Multicultural Affairs Office: that would deal with any issues conccrni ng multiculturalism, an expansion of the Latin American Studies Program to incorporate studies of the Carihhcan. an expansion of the Modern Languages Dept. to include languages of growing populatiom in the U.S., the implementation of a term NJEWS JFROJMI HOJMIIE Supplement their brief telephone calls by subscribing to The Concordiensis, the newsy weekly newspaper Follow his/her college life as well as the college careers of their fraternity brothers and fellow students as they are chronicles on the general news, the editorial and sports pages; in the news, features, editorial, entertainment, scientific, scientific, and sports column of the student newspaper. Keep up with the doings of his/her faculty, and the administration of his college by reading the only Union student publication that is devoted solely to the news of Union and Union students 24 issues mailed the afternoon of publication direct from the press room cost $40.00. Or receive three years subscription for $100.00. Merely fill out the inclosed card and drop it in a mail box. Wtr @nnrvrb irn.sis FOLLOWS THEM BY TYPE & PICTURE THROUGH UNION Send THE Co~CORDIE~srs to: :\':\i\ff STREET ;\~D ::\'L' .\!BER CITY A:'\'D ST:\TE Ahroad to the contmcnt of Africa. a Non-Western History Track in the General Education Curriculum, the implement- ation of a required Human Diversity Seminar to Gen. Ed .. and the creation of an Africana Studies Program. This list is by no means absolute and represents only our deepest and most pertinent concerns at the moment. I must repeat that everyone at Union has a vested interest in our efforts to build this community, as they will only gain from them. We do not wish to dismantle the European contribution to history, we only wish to exist on a parallel plane, only then can we call ourselves sisters and brothers. Our meetings arc every Monday at 6:00 p.m. in Bronner House. Always true to the mission. Joe X. Kotright Gonzalez Jr. A.L.A.S. Co-Chair

Qthr <llilttrDtb irn.sis BUSINESS April 15, 1993, page A9 Corporate Loyalty Gets the Axe The Nature of the Beast by Dylan J. Ratigan Business Editor Big Business, once thought to be the stalwart of job security in America's capitalist society has changed the game. Instability. once thought to be exclusive only to the small u:p and comers of the business world has now made itself a new home in some of America's biggest and most powerful conglomerates. For decades, there was an implicit agreement between the those of middle management and' the CEO's that if the mangers give their undying loyalty to the company i.e. ~idiculous hours·, sacrifice .of family etc. they will be rewarded with a guaranteed position in the firm, upward mobility, and a proportional piece of the pie. The concept of lifetime employment which was territory that many thought belonged to the Japanese alone, was an umbrella, albeit implicit, that those who held management positions in the U.S. also considered themselYes to be the beneficiaries of. Well, the axe has fallen, and not just on the assembly line. · Some of the big cuts since· 1990 include: Eastman Kodak 2,000, Siemens 13,000, Daimler-Benz 27,000, Philips 40,000, and ffiM with 65,000. The problem lies in the fact that when hard times hit, as they did in the early 90's companies look to cut costs The single largest cost for most of America's large firms is payroll. In the past payroll cuts were made at the bottom i.e. assembly line etc. This Post-Cold War defense cuts The slirinkin~ of the Pentagon budget will hit scme states hard. but these cuts are small compared with past post-war downsizing. Biggest'io1I-r05sstates- Projected defense job losses for 1991-97 as a percent of total 1991 private-sector jobs in state Conn. Va. Mass. Miss. CaiH. -, 2.8% 1o/o T2. T 1.9\-' 1,8o/o 1.7\k How defense spending was cut in the past; as percent of GOP: 0 Spending it After peak ,. cutback WorldWaAI !I 1944L 39.3% I 19~3.7% ~ Korea 1953c==J 14.5% 1956BI10 .. 2% Vietnam 1968CJ9.6\!o 19781'f14H/o Current 198606.5% 19971)3.6o/~ (projected) SOURCE: Defense ConveiSIOO ComiTUSSIOil doesn't do the job anymore, there simply isn't enough fat at the bottom to have any significant impact. Enter stage lejt, one management consultant and all of the lingo that goes with him, from \re-engineering to \downsizing\, or to my favorite \delayering!\ Call it what you will, with all of the mergers, LBO's, and corporate restructuring of the late 80's nobodies job. not even the CEO's . ,afe. The objective, of coW'se, is to turn America's oversized, awkward and oafish co1porations into lean, mean, entrepreneurial sharks that will be as nimble and flexible as their smaller counterparts. Unfortunately, this sort of coqJOrate restructuring requires massive cuts into the sanctuary of cushy middle management and supervisory jobs that have been around for years. While the benefits of these ripping cuts to the very heart of corporate America may have the potential to create newer and more efficient co~porate machines, any possible gains that could be made are being offset, by the deep psychological scarring that is occuring throughout the ranks of America's white collar work force. The short-term effects are obvious. the, morale of the 'temainin-g' . employee's'. at .. companies like Kodak, IBM · and Philips has been shattered, never mind the morale of those who actually lost their jobs. The inherent feeling of insecurity that employee's at these companies feel has inspired a mass exodus of some of the best and brightest talents that these companies have to offer. People who at one time would have rejected higher Smokeless tobacco_.tax Projected sales, tax revenue for smokeless tobacco if current :t 7-csnt per unit exeisa tax Ylere raised IG 24 cents or $1•: Sales In millions of pounds 2.7tc I j121.2 24e I 1120.1 $1.oo I 199.1 Federal tai revenue In millions 2.7e ~ $28.51 24e 0 $256.30 $1.oo I I $949.ss More athletes using smokeless tobacco Smokeless tobacco uso among college students is on the rise. A look at use in select sports: 01985 01989 Men 57% 45 0, .... , ~·S .. , .. ! -.- ; f:·, ~-,- ,1' ''>f,\ . . ~ ~.~ . ~~~ Baseball Women 8% 9% I I Softball 'Cicarettes are taxoo at24 cents Jl<ll unit, 40<'1. ~ l___Lj Football 2% 4\/o ~ Basketball SOURCE: An~sisof Federal Trade Commission, Ag_liCIJhure Department dala and 1991 U.S. Tobacco Co. annual repor1 by Or. Greg Connolly, Mass. Tobacco Control Program: Heahh and Human SeNiCes Department paying offers from other firms on the basis of corporate ioyalty are . 110w corporate free agents motivated by nothing more than the ·number of zero's a C()[npany is willing to throw at them. This change in behavior is based on what managers· perceive to be a violation of the corporate ethic which for years provided guaranteed long term job security and promotion in exchange for dogged loyalty. With the abandonment of this long tenn security. corporations are watching their most talented alld most doggedly loyal employee's walk right out the d()or. Many of these corporations have also suffered severe blows to their reputation whicll in most cases is the most valuable asset that any compally can possess. There is a good chance that the superficial damage that these companies have suffered will fade, but the long term impact, the evaporatiom of any sort of stable hierruchy that provides a map for a ckar and direct career progression for the young employees in a finn, may be quite dramatic. The most impo1tant loss will lie in the fact that big companies used to be able to invest in the education of their young employees under the safe assumption that the newly acquired skills that theii young employees ave gained would ., not be lost to a competitor. With the loss of a11y sort of guaranteed job security, companies are going to find that high cost investment in the education of their employees has become a lot more risky than it was in the past. And the impact tilat this is going to have on corporate America. simply can11ot be assessed at this point Big Business made these changes in order to become more entrepreneurial in nature, the trade off of coruse, .is that the employees are going to expect higher rewards for profitability, and they to are going to behave in a much more entrepreneurial fashion. In a certain sense this lack of security, and the abandonment of loyalty that accompanies it has ~iven managers a sense of \empowerment\, in that it gives th()se who still have their jobs the right to leave at any given moment without feeling as though they have violated any sort of unwritten ethic, while it has put corporations under tile gun to try and retain the employees they still have. What corporations didn't seem to realize was that they were in a reciprocal agreement, and when they abandoned their end of the deal, managers had no choice but to follow suit. The severity of the backlash and the impact it will llave is something only time will tell, but one thing is for certain, the game has changed and the new set of rules may end up costing corporations a lot more than they bargained for. , P R I· N C I P L E S t> f S 0 U ~ D 'R E. T I R E .:\it EN T · I .;\l: V E S T I ~f G . . . ' - UNFO THIS IS WHERE PEOPLE ARE PUTTING TOO .MANY RETIREMENT DOLLARS. E very year. a lot of people make a money you don't s~nd to Washington huge mistake on their taxes. They W<u-!ts even harder for .rc:4 Down the don't ta.ke advantage of tax deferral and road, that can make a dramatic differenc~ wind up sending Uncle Sam money they in y<lur quality of life. could be saving for retirement. Wha.t else makes SRAs so special? Fortunately. that's a mistake you can A range of allocation choices-from the easily avoid with TIAA-CREF SRAs. guaranteed security of Tlt\A to the SRAs not only ease your current tax- divPrsi.6ed investment accounts of hite, they offer a remarkably easy way ( f's variable annuity-all backed to build retirement income-especially e nation's number one retirement for the \extras\ that your regular pension :rn. and Social Security benefits may not Why write off the chanc;:e for a more cover. Because your contributions are rewarding retirement? Call today and made in before-tax dollars, you pay less learil moOre about how TIAA -CREF taxes now. And since all earnings on SRAs can help you enjoy many .:your SRA are tax-deferred as well, the ha.ppy r-eturns. Benefit now from taDc deferrrd. Cllll m~r SRJI hotUne 1 800~842·2'?33, ext. 8016. 75 years of ensuring the future for those who shape it~ CJIEF ~trt.jlcat,._,an Ji.ttrtbuttJ by Tltltl-CREF lnJivtiJUJJ.i .nJ ffLitllUJU>nai Smwt.J. For \\Jruo\'ff!eJtlll(i1'tn14iuJrt ut<l.uJift9 charguanJt.::r:~NGS, ati.f 1 S00-842 ..'.\rT. at ?l'/r /or a prwp.rlw. RtaJ tbt prwp.ectw <arc/u!ly i>~J•~ yo 11 ut\'-1/ \' mrJ \\'\ry.

Qllir <!lDttrvr.birttsis BUSINESS April15, 1993, page A9 Corporate Loyalty Gets the Axe The Nature of the Beast by Dylan J. Ratigan Business Editor Big Business, once thought to be the staLwart of job security in America's capitalist society has changed the game. Instability, once thought to be exclusive only to the small up and comers of the business world has now made itself a new home in some of America's biggest and most powerful conglomerates. For decades, there was an implicit agreement between the those of midd[e management and· the CEO's that if the mangers give their undying loyalty to the company i.e. ridiculous hours, sacrifice of family etc. they wilJ be rewarded with a guaranteed position in the firm, upward mobility, and a proportional piece of the pie. The concept of lifetime employment which was territory that many thought belonged to the Japanese alone, was an umbrella, albeit implicit, that those who held management positions in the U.S. also considered themselves to be tile beneficiaries of. Well, the axe llas fallen, and not just on the assembly line. Some of the big cuts since 1990 include: Eastman Kodak 2,000, Siemens 13,000, Daimler-Benz 27,000, Philips 40,000, and IBM with 65,000. The problem lies in the fact that when hard times hit, as they did in the early 90's companies look to cut costs The single largest cost for most of America's large firms is payroll. In the past payroll cuts were made at the bottom i.e. assembly line etc. This Post-Cold War defense cuts The shrin~in~ of the Pentagon budget wrll hlt some states haiti. but these cuts are smaJI compared with past post-war downsizing. LUHUtmmH4i!i(?J Projected defense job losses for 1991-97 as a percent of total 1991 private-sector jobs in state Conn. I 2.8~'.. Va. I 2.1~o Mass. r 1.9\/c. Nlss. f 1.8'\/a Calif. 11.7% How defense spending was cut in the past: as percent of GOP: 0 Spending fa After peak • cuiback WorldWar\ ' 1944[ 39.3%1 19~3.7% 1 Korea 1953c==J 14.5% 1956Rf10.2% Vietnam 1968c=J9.6% 1978 tlj4.8<>; .. Current 1986[\.J 6.5% 1997!1fi6% (proJected) SOURCE. OoleoSG ConvenlJOn ComrrliSS!on doesn't do the job anymore, there simply isn't enough fat at the bottom to have any significant impact. Enter stage left. one management consultant and all of the lingo that goes with him, from \re-engineering to \downsizing\, or to my favorite \delayering!\ Call it what you will, with all <lf the mergers. LBO's, and corporate restructuring of the late 80's nobodies job, not even the CEO's .. afe. The objective, of course, is to turn America's oversized, awkward and oafish corporations into lean, mean, entrepreneurial sharks that will be as nimble and flexible as their smaller counterparts. Unfortunately, this sort of corporate restructuring requires massive cuts into the sanctuary of cushy middle management and supervisory jobs that have been around for years. While the benefits of these ripping cuts to the very heart of corporate America may have the potential to create newer and more efficient corp<Jrate machines, any possible gains that could be made are being offset, by the deep psychologi<:al scarring that is occuring tluoughout the ranks of America's white collar work force. The short-term effects are obvious, the morale of the remammg employee's at companies like Kodak, lBM and Philips has been shattered, never mind the morale of those who actually lost their jobs. The inherent feeling of insecurity tbat employee's at these companies feel has inspired a mass exodus of some of the best and brightest talents that these companies have to offer. People who at one time would have rejected higher Smokeless tobacco_ tax Projected sales, tax revenue for smokeless tobacco if current 2. 7 -'Cant peru nit eKeise tax were raised to 24- cents or $1*: Sales In mllllona of pounds 2.7e I 1121.2 24e I !120.1 $1.oo I I 99.1 Federal tax revenue In millions 2.7e m $28.51 24¢ 0 $256.30 $t.oo I l$949.56 More atllietes using smokeless tobacco Smokeless tCJbacco use among college studoents is on the rise. A look at use in select sports: a 1985 01989 Men ~ ~- Baseball Women 8% 9\!. I Softball \Cu:arettes are tmed ar 24 caniS pet un11 40Cio []] Football SOURCE AnalySIS of FsdetaJ Trat:te Comm1SS1on. AgncuhLJre 0Epartmem daiJ dlld 1991 U S Tobacc-..o Co 1111nual ropon by Dr Gtag Con11o11v Mass Tob.lr.co Cottlrol l'r\')tam. Heallh and HtJman SONICl!S Oepartnmm L------------~ paying offers from other firms on the basis of corporate loyalty are now corporate free agents motivated by nothing more than the number of zero\s a company is willing to throw at them. This change in behavior is based on what managers perceive to be a violation of the corporate ethic which for years pFovided guaranteed. lo11g term job security and promotion in exchange for dogged loyalty. With the abandonment of this long term security, corporations are watching their most talented and most doggedly loyal employee's walk right out the door. Many of these corporations have also suffered severe blows to their reputation which in most cases is the most valuable asset that any company can possess. There is a good chance that the superficial damage that these companies have suffered will fade, but the long term impact, the evaporation of any sort of stable hierarchy that provtdes a map for a clear an<l direct career progression for the young employees in a finn, may be quite dramatic. The most important loss will lie in the fact that big companies used to be able to invest in the education of their young employees under the safe assumption that the newly acquired skills that their youn,g employees ave gained would , not be lost to a competitor. With the loss of aJily sort of guaranteed job security. companies are going to find that high cost investment in the education of their employees has become a lot more risky than it was in the past. And the impact that this is going to have on corporate America, simply cannot be assessed at this point Big Business made these changes in order to become more entrepreneurial in nature. the trade off of course, is that the employees are going to expect higher rewards for profitability, and they to arc going to behave in a much more entrepreneurial fashion. In a certain sense this lack of security, and the abandonment of loyalty that accompanies it has given managers a sense of \empowerment\, in that it gives those who still have their jobs the right to leave at any given moment without feeling as though they have violated any sort of unwritten ethic. while it has put corporations under the gun to try and retain the employees they still have. What corporations didn't seem to realize was that they were in a reciprocal agreemc11t. and when they abandoned their end of the deal, managers had no choice but to follow suit. The severity of the backlash and the impact it will have is something only time will tell, but one thing is for certain, the game has changed and the new set of rules may end up costing corporations a lot more than they bargained for. .. ·_.RR·I··~·c I'P. Lts ;.,.)! ·-s-o 0. N··d -·R el::--lli'E~l 14 N r ··iN.v::E's·t·fN:C·; ·. •.' • • ' •• • \ \ ' ,' ., ,,l •• •' ' UNFO TillS IS WHERE PEOPLE ARE PUTTING TOO MANY RETIREMENT DOLLARS. E very year, a. lot O\of people make a huge mistake OII their taxes. They don't take advantage of tax deferral and wind up sending Uncle Sa.m money they could be saving for retirement. Fortunately. that's a mistake you can easily avoid with TlAA-CREF SRAs. SRAs not only ease your current tax- bite, they offer a remarkably easy way to build retirement income-especially for the \extras\ that your regular pension a.nd Social Security benefits may not cover. Because your contributions are made in before-ta.x dollars, you pay less taxes now. And since all earnings on your SRA are ta.:'<-deferred as well. the money you don't send to Washington works even harder for y~\. Down the road, that can make a dramatic dilferenc!'! in your quality of life. What else makes SRAs so special? A range of allocation choices-from the guaranteed security of TlAA to the div .. r<.>i6ed investment accounts of C F's variable annuity-all backed e nation's number one retirement :m. Why write off the chance for a more rewarding retirement? Call today and learn more about how TIAA.-CREF SRAs can help you enjoy many happy returns. Benefi.t mnv .fr'rmJ U&x rkfr:rrrd. Cllll our SRA botliJU 1800-842-T33, r;r:t. SOlO. 75 years of ensuring the future for those who shape it-::\ ~==~~====~============================~=-=======--=-~=-=-=-=-~-=--=·==--~~---- CREF .-~rtdu.oJJU ..Vt\ JutrJmud b'!l Tl1.-l L~REF !n.(l,liJ~ <.~n.J fNtilUIWIWJ \(n•cuJ ~~ ,,.. .,...,,... \\\\' , 1 1 , 1 r,.•-·' ,.,. ,. , .. 4 , • • • • • • .• ._..., (\ • _,.. • ,,..I.IJ;'oTI.,' ~r'/(\.1 ,J!h r.f,'>.('1~t-- .J-'• 1 • .. _ .'(!(' J ,1f't'.l~_,(fUJ. fl(..l14~ 'hi .JI\tVN<lu.! ,,uyiu.l.!!j,\'i''t.'f'(' \\'\ Jh'fJ( .•r .(r'f,, -., .. utn,l

. ~- ~- 7---- April15, 1993.~ page AlO CAMPUS BULLETIN BOARD Qthr illonrvr:b irnsht ******AN No~u NCE.M EN r-~\K\K\K\K\IC ifhe Bloc·k U Award Di:nner will be held' Wednesd:ay May 19, 1··993 Ath_letes, MUST pick ;up your tickets .at the Alumni Gym by May 14, 1·993 No one will be admitted without a ticket EL.ECTIONS for STUDENT FORUM PRESIDENT V.P. OF ADMINISTRATION, V.P. OF FINANCE, V.P. OF ACADEMICS, and JR. TRUSTEE (CLASS OF 95) Will be held Fifth Week! AH those interested in running should pick up petitions . and information in the Student Activities Office (CC 408). Petitions are due Monday, April 24th. Statements for Concordiensis must be turned into their office by this date a well. THE UNION COLLEGE COMMUNITY WELC01\1ES FUTURE MEMBERS OF THE CLASS OF 1997 - WE LDA:t~T YOUR lUERS FIND IMPUT .•• ~[E~ ~ mlrn [!))U~®rm o rE~'lf001fO LID~ ~ lElE1TU ·~~ . Mondag, Rpril 19th 6:00p.m. [[ 205 HELP WANTED Student to assist with Student Activities publications: Student Survival Guide & Student Activities Newsletter. Must be Macintosh literate; knowledge of (or ability to learn) MS Word, Aldus Pagemaker, Calendar Creator a must. Pay involved. l11quire @ x6379 or CC408. · NEED EXTRA CASH?? ! ! *Elections will be held for Class Representatives Seventh Week! **The Election Board of Student Forum has separated the WE ARE LOOKIN.G FO~ STUDENTS WH? WANT TO EARN electionsfor positions SO· that those who WOUld like to fUri 'f6'r' tha''i'SOME FUN,·,;;_~S,Y; :J>1~N,~Y!. STUD~~TS WHO WO(;J·.~D LIKE ' . ' . . . . . • . . . ' ....... : .. ~ ,. ~ :··,, ·,. ·:J'O WORK ON. RElJNJON, WEEKEND 1 ~- :MAY.· Z·l:ST I 22ND I Presidency, V1ce Pres1denc1es, or Trustee pOSition have the :& 23RD. PLEASE STOP BY THE ALUMNI OFFICE OR opportunity to (if not elected to the first oHice) not be punished by CALL ALISON oR PEG AT x6168. not running for class representative positions. THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT and IJ)EPARTMENT of VISUAL ARTS Present Method and Meaning • ln !1_i~;logical Illustration (A Demonstrated Talk using Living Birds) • International Society of Animal krtists 'l (Vice- President) and The Guild of Natural Science Illustrators (Smithsonian Institute Washington, D.C.) 4:40 P.M. Thursday May 6th, 1993 College Center Auditorium Refreshments at 4:30 The IDOL is now accepting submissions for the Spring 1993 issue. Stories, Art, Photos, Poems, whatever! Send works to: Glenn Konopaske Box 1162 Jessica Page Box 1566 Kate Uhlmann Box 2059 DUE APRIL 21! THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT and THE BIOLOGY CLUB Present THE MOLECULAR GENETICS OF TRYPTOPHAN SYNTHETASE B • IN ARABIDOPSIS JK u JM JJj) 'l lP JJ?)!J l]Jf1f 5) lP lb ~Jl)) ~ Boyce Thompson Institute for Plant Research at Cornell University Ithaca, NY Thursday, April 22, 1993 Social Sciences - 103 4:40 p.m. Refreshments 4:30 p.m. Candidate for Position ..... the Department of Biology

Qthr (!Lonrnr:b irn.si.s CAMPUS NEWS April15, 1993, page All PER!iDI\lAL§ CleancutS~looking for SWF for serious conversations. Enjoys going to the library, hanging out with Jason Epstein, and living life on the edge. If interested, contact William \are you serious\ Goldman, Box #1337. To D. Alexander, N.Marshall, and M. Affronti: You win be happy to know that you have all been accepted for the position of \after · hours\ nurse. I will.be expecting you for some special training soon. Thank you, The Doctor of Love, Jared Seiter. To Pea, Did I ever tell you you're my favorite? I especially like peas with honey, chinese or · bubbles. Stay heart- smart. ILU! '84 Honda Accord Hatchback for sale. Automatic trans., recent tires, 86,000 miles, new air conditioner, good body, cl~an interior, cruise control. Looks and drives .great!! Reliable auto for short or long trips. Call for test drive& leave message; 377-2440~ Heading for EUROPE this summer? Only $169.!! Jet th.ere anytime for only $169 with AIRHITCH! (Reported in Let's Go:! and NY Times) Califomia-$129' each way. AIRHITCH 212-864-2000 CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT now .hiring students. $300/$900 wkly. Summer/Fall Time. Tour Guides, Gift Shop Sales, Deck Hands, Bartenders, Casino Dealers,Etc. Joe Saltzbart World Travel- (Bridgewater) The results of the Caribbean, Alaska, \survey\ are in: the Europe, Hawaii. No majority of those polled. . experience necessary. Call 1-800-602-680- said yes, but a few asked 0323 Ext. 23 . for references. Expectations have been COLLEGE STUDENT high, but tbose.who .SVRVEY ON SEX. @QW y,ou:say the results· -. Nationwide; written are a disappointment survey. Total Keep on tryin'! confidentiality assured Kerry and Andrea· (no phone calls, no Attention Professors and names) All Union Faculty: Does your lawn need .students urged to a spring pick me up? Two participate. For winter tenn graduates able to questionnaires, write: do yard work, general spring Student Enterprises, maintenance and light Suite 760 , 405 carpentcy. Call Chet or Matk at 346-6502. Please leave a Tarrytown Rd., White message. Plains, NY 10607. S'TUJDJEN.Jr SU~ VIIV AIL GUlrJD)JE Apr 15 -Thursday 7:00 PM 1 G:OO CC Aud Spanish Her. Fi:lm 9:00 PM Chet's Apr 16 - Fqday 4:00PM -6:00 Chet's: Heavy Breathing Jazz Apr 17- Saturday 1 :00 PM Baseball vs. Rensselaer 1:00 PM Softball vs. Hamilton 3:00 PM Men's Lax vs. Hamilton Apr 18 -Sunday 1 :00 PM Baseball vs. Hartwick Apr 19 .., Monday Accepted Student's Day 2:00 Mini-Expo CC Atrium Apr 20- Tuesday 3:00 PM Baseball vs. Colgate 8:00 PM Coffeehouse @ Fero: Earth Day Celeb. Apr 21- Wednesday 3:00PM Softball vs. New Paltz 4:30PM Union ll)vitational 8:00 PM & 10:00 CCAUD: Truth or Dare 8:00PM & 10:00 PM CCAUD: Film-Aladdin 8:00 PM IVCF Coffeehouse at Fero 7:00 PM Che1's: ALAS Party 8:00PM & 1:0:00 PM CCAUD: Film-Aladdin 3:00 I)U llO:FFElill()~SE AT FERO: G~ERILU ,UlT ' 8:00 PM & 1 0:00 PM CCAU 0: Fil:m-Aiadd in 8:00 PM & 1· 0:00 PM CCAUD: FUm-Aladdin 9:00 PM Che.t's 8:00 PM Mern. Chapel: Concert-Melvyn Tan 8:00PM, CCAUD: Maura C:ullen on Diversity 9:00PM Chat's Ap.r22-Thursday . . . 9:00PM Chet•s 8:00PM Old Chapel: Film Premiere \Within Reach\ Apr23-Friday 8:00PM & 10:00 PM CCAUD: 5:30PM UCDH: Hispanic Film-Body of Evidence Heritage Culinary Expose 9 :00 PM Chet's Apr 24 - Saturday 8:00 PM & 1 0:00 PM CCAUD: Film-Body of Evidence 8:00 PM Coffeehouse @ Fero: Nuclear Readings Rubes® By Leigh Rubin ---====-======'==1 \Let's see ... I'll have the Big Boy.\ ~I \\\t\~\<.~ ... BJJ\ \ ~\hT f::::f\'{ l\'f, N\C[ 10 s~t:. '{o~ LM~QG-0 ~'(oUR lf(;b\ 1 N\\\ . Q~~Lt: ... . / -- .~-~~-~-~--/--~~---~- CfJrcf/.8 1/Ji>bl\lNGo:loN 'itf::>l ~\'\,..o2b~?'V\l§ v BLOOM COUNTY oOo.-- .. \' SNAKE.? .--.---:-----, I ' • ALASKA • · SUMMER JOBS Studelltl Needed! Earn $600+/week ill caonerics or U,tOtt+/mon lh on f!SIJiol!! . boats. Free Transportation! Room &: Boatdl No experience necessary. Male or Female. For employment prog. call: (206) S4S-US5 ext. AS183 by Berke Breathed ,..._,..~~~~~'l'\!'ll ~ '\..~-~~' -~~!} ~ \ ' I II' Ff((}M !IN ''!ICT5 OF &C¥1\ fff(5fftr!Vf, 1!1111113 ,/(J$T HAveN'T Na/ Tiff 511/tll 5/NC£ liZ TI/YtO!? lfJ51-m:J5& ZOO POfJVP.5. /V? Y~!/<..:e;~~ I .__,~.,... if 1}1 Earn $ 500 - $1 ()()0 weekly stuffing envelopes. For details- RUSH $1.00 with SASE to: GROUP FIVE 57 Greentree Drive, Suite 307 Dover, DE 19901

SURVEY • • ·- • .. • • • ·• • • • • • .. • • • • • • • • ·• ~~~a - • .., • • • • • .. • '\\ • '::, • • • • • b y J C f f 0 r C ·C 11 ........ vVhcrc do seniors ex peeL to be nffcr g r ~~. d u at ion ( ccunc next S cptcn1bcr) '! employed 52% \Either grad. school or employed. I hope to get into grad. school but tlten. again I'm not sure I want to spend anot.her couple of ~ea.rs in school.· On fhe other hand, I'm definitely not ready :to face the working world. Maybe you should just put me dowR as undecided.\ graduate sdwol \I'm goi..n.g to be a teacher. I'U be employed.\ 36o/o undecided unemployed \With my grades I doubt I can get into grad. school but without grad. school I doubt I can get a job.\ \I'm going out to Colorado to ski and p_robably get S()me sort of job.\' \Where do I ~:xpect to be after graduation? Hung over at home. Oh, next·September I'll be in med. school.\ anonymous students on l}ow their future stands survey taken from a random sampling of 125 Union seniors . Have Fun Meet New People Get More Involved on Campus Know the Latest Campus News Before Everyone else ... JFOR CONCORDHIB:NSKS NJBWS Information Meeting & Pizza Party Monday April19 4:30PM Room303 CC Questions? Call Caroline x4366 Matt x4314 ' I '· I '; I

'· I Wtr <ll11nnirbirn.sis Sedion B Schenectady, NY The men's Rugby Team defeated the Rennselaer Engineers this weekend at the Nott Field. The 'Union A Team won 26-0 and . , the B Team won 15-6. Women's Rugby ~efeats Hamilton by Sue-lyn B. Contributing Writer This past Saturday, the women's rugby team travelled to Hamilton College in Clinton, New York for their season opener. Thruways can be dangerous places so Tiffany Hicks, always thinking of her teammates, enlisted the help of a friendly State Trooper to escort us. Thanks Hicks! Due to the holidays of Passover and Easter, Union's roster was missing many of its many regular. players. However. the rookies proved their inexperience to be a strength. The field was in great condition and the stage was set for one of the most spectacular displays of athletic ability in the bistory of the sport. Union won the mouth-g1;1ard toss and was the receiving team at kick- off. This proved to be an omen as Union dominated Hamilton the entire game. In. the first half, the perfect passes, blazing speed, and mesmerizing abiHty of Bl<>ndie, Rachel. Deena \the Bwldozer,\ Sue-l:yn, Volz, and Stacey \the shadow\ seemed to ha-ve hypnotized Hamilton into a state of helplessness. The serum, the backb(me of the team was a true powerhouse blen.ding Neanderthal strength witb unparalleled stamina. Zirinsky's bold leadership harnessed the spirit and talent of Angela. Beth, Beth Decker, Vanessa, Kate, Michele, and Cbester to completely destroy \.,. . •. any of Hamilton's hopes for victory. Chris Johnston was sorely missed, however. The second half brought a few player changes for Union bringing in the power of Bloomberh and Kelly. The new line-up left Hamilton begging for mercy. Kicking Hamilton when they were down, Decker had an amazing breakaway to the try zone off of a masterful diving pass from full back Volz. All in all, the better team won. This weekend, the team is off to a tournament at Colgate in Hamilton, NY. The team is excited to have all of its players back and looks forward to tremendous success in the toumamenL . : IN· THIS ·SECTION Sports: Saturday, M~y 8th, .. Singles. Tbey have recently the Interfraternity ()ouncil, released a new album, \Sweet Panhellenic System . artd -Big - OblivioQ.' 1 • Pond and Poster Brothers Big Sisters wlll host Children, two other bands ·the Kids Olympics. Tlte. days from Washington, will be the activities will include~ sports two ba11ds opening. See page 3 events, t-shirts and ·a cookout. See page 2. Features: Tensions, that have long been felt ·between A & E: Screaming Trees, a ·scl1enectady. residents and band from . Washingt()n, will Union students have been · be performing . a1 Achilles . explo:red by a Union Seriior. ; Rink. on May l st. T~e band. .· · · .. wa.s • first . heard . cCJ.(L. the f·e,sidents feel tbe .· \Silver · · · .>l'&Oa Kids\' are often aloof. ; s,oun.<Htack of . the· movie ·. p · · p · · 5 · . . 1ttt . age ·_ · · ... ' . . . . . . . . . ~ . . . . . . ... . .. . .· ,; . '•\. April 15, 1993 Union Track Shines Through Rain by Tasb.a LaBare Contributing Writer Whoever said that it was supposed to be warm and sunny during the sprin2 season? The Union track team is no stranger to running in torrential downpours, and this weekend was no exce.ptio11. Union travelled to Hamilton to fire off a fabulous sprin2 season. Fire is the key word here because our runners were blazing! We need not mention the fact that it was about fifty degrees with and average of six inches of rain falling per minute. The throwing field wa:s muddy, so much so that Ollr throwers came out looking like the women's rugby team (no offense ladies). To start, we would like to welcome bade Chuck Clerici. Chuck had a great first meet by winning the Javelin with a throw of 46.(i9 and placing third in the sh()t put with a toss of 7 .63. Matt, a newcomer to the team but not to throwing events, helped Union out by throwing a 30.61 in the discus to place second overall and also flying tbe javelin to second place with a throw of 41.98. In addition to the success of the throwing team, Ben Heisler placed fourtll in the javelin with a toss or 28.41. Moving on to the women, Lori had an awesome day placing first in all three of her events. In the hammer, Lori threw 28.48 to take top honors. She then moved to the shot put where she took charge by tossing the shot put 8.50. Finally Lori strutted her stuff by heaving the discuss 25.5() meters. Matt Stem, making his debut as a union trackster, ha(l a great day as well. Matt place<l second in the long jump with 11 leap of 5.75. Matt then movecl onto his favorite event, the high jump, where he dominate<l with a jump of 5'10\ to finislt first. The women's 4xl relay was the first act to take the stage. The HamHton women wished we were only playing around when Union swept by them the second after the gun sounded. The team of Nadine, Joy, Christilia, and Tasha ran a combined effort of 54.9 to smoke Hamilton. The fifteen-hundred meter was the next race. Union had a great Sllowing with five men competing in this race. John Metx (also known as Shaggy) placed third overaU and first for Union. Shaggy ran a great time of 4:26.7 to lead a rugged Union team. Also competing for Union was Seth running a 4:35.1, Mitchell Weisenburg finishin~ in 4:37.5, John E. blistering the track with a 4:59.5, and Brett running a 5:05.4. 'Tasha ran the 1500 for the women and placed second. Sarah Teasdale, a junior newcDmer to the women's team, placed first in the 800 with a ~reat time of 2:36.7. Mike Le<ding led Union men in the 80(), placing second overall. Mike ran an awesome time of 2:04.2. Also running the 80{) was Mark Sheridan who ra.11 a great time of 2:10.9 to place third. Nadine dominated once again in the 100 meter dash and Dean ran like a mad women winning that race with a 14.12. Christina also ran the 100 for Union finishing third overall with a super time of 15.45. Overall, the team ran a fantasti~ race. The Union tracksters were anxious to get their fir~t meet behind them, and are D()W looking forward to competimg at SUNY Albany this weekend. Lastly, congra.tulations to John Simon,. Josh Haines, Tasha LeBare, e1nd Nadine Filosi for being named the 1993 Outdoor Captains. Men's Crew Gears Season Up For by Steve Mooar Contibuting Writer Finally, the Union Crew Team was able to get a full week of practice 011 . the Mohawk River. With Mothel\ Nature cooperating for the first time this year Union packed up its fleet and headed south to visit West Point. The race featured Southern New York Colleges including West Point. Vassar, Merchant Marine. and Manhattan. However, Lehigh and Radcliffe each sent a boat and the regatta was given an international flavor with an entry in the men's open eight from tile British Royal Air Force. Both the men's and women's novice eights had victories last weekend and came back this weekend with strong races. The men's novice eight finished second a few seconds off the lead. The women's novice eight finished third, only 5~/l 00 of a second behind second ()lace Manhattan. First year assistant coach Joy continued on Bl

Aprill5, 1993, page B2 SPORTS Rangers Grave- Reach Their by Greg Kalish Associate Sports Editor With great sorrow, we are gathered here today to mourn the failure of th\e New York Rangers .to make the playoffs. They passed tragically on Monday night after a 1-0 loss to the Philadelphia Flyers. They leave behind one of the highest payrolls in the league, a city full of disgusted fans and the distinction of being the only team in history to win the President's Cup and miss the playoffs the following season. May their personnel be fired in peace. But then again, was this really much of a shock? After nearly a month and a half of absolutely porous hockey, the Rangers season, at least the part they care about, ended Monday night after Dominic Roussel and the Flyers shut out the Broadway Blues 1-0. Maybe they didn't care? They sure didn't play like they did. After defeating the Chicago Blackhawks in Chicago on March 12, the Rangers were planted in third place, not too far behind the --second place Washington Capitals. Of their next eight games, seven were to be played at home. Four of the teams they were to play were not in a playoff spot at the time. Brian Leetch had just returned from an injury sustained December 17, Mark Messier's back and rib cage were gradually improving, Mike Richter was Feacquiring his confidence, and the defense was steadily improving. The Rangers were in prime position Rest In Peace for a serious playoff mn. But for the snakebitten Rangers, it was not to be. As if just another reminder of the curse lingering over Madison Square Garden (that is, no Stanley cup for the last fifty- three years) Brian Leetch slipped on some ice getting out of a taxi in front of his New York apartment, brealcing his ankle, ending his season and perhaps the Ranger's season. From that point 011, the Rangers floundered miserably. They lost five of the next seven games, all at home. They blew two-goal third period leads to Edmonton, Philadelphia and Hartford and lost aJt overtime game to the New York Islanders, a game which probably sealed their fate. As a matter of fact, they have yet to win a home game since the Leetch injury. As a result of their ineptitude, they will miss the playoffs for the first time since Neil Smith took over as general manager in 1988. Furthermore, if not for the difference in jerseys, it has been nearly impossible as of late to tell who is the home team when the Rangers play at Madison Square Garden. In last Saturday night's 10-4 loss to the Penguins at the Garden, Ranger fans booed persistently, cheered Penguin goals and, towards the end of 1he game, chanted \Na Na Na Na, Hey Hey Hey, Goodbye!\ The future of the Rangers is bleak. Coach Ron Smith was hired on an interim basis and it is unlikely he will return after a collapse of such biblical proportions. Neil Smith has received the vote of confidence from the Ranger brass but there is no guarantee. As far as the players are concerned, the New York Ranger& have too many ex-Oiler over-the-hill superstars brought in to win the Cup last year. When that failed Smith brought in more agil)g veterans witlt championsb.ip experience to win t:his year. They have traded away so much youth for veterans such as Mark Messier, Esa Tikkanen, and Kevin Lowe. As emotionally. difficult. as it may be to trade a player like Messier, that ~ay be the only logical move durin-g the upcoming offseason, to get something for him while they still can. Tpe Rangers will also, most likely, be losing a goaltender. Neil Smith was able to trade neither Mike Richter . nor Joh.n Vanbiesbrouck before the trading deadline and thus. as a result of new expansion draft rules, the Rangers will be able to protect only one goaltender, leaving the other open for the taking by one of the two new teams for little to nothing in return. However, all is not lost. The Rangers still have young talents like Brian Leetch, Tony Amonte, Adam Graves, and Alexei Kovalev. Goaltender Cory Hirsch and leading American Hockey League scorer Don Biggs should find themselves at Madison Square Garden next yea and be able to contribute. Injuries, bad luck, and a lack ()f heart proved to be the downfall of the 1992- 1993 New York Rangers and now, they will ltave plenty of time to think about it ·on the golf course. Crew Ready to Row Cont. from Bl Zimmerman has been spending much of her time with the novice women and her work is paying off. The women's novice four made its debut this weekend and despite rowing with a broken seat for 3/4 of the race were able to finish fifth out of seven boats. The varsity women and the men's second lightweight four had to change their strategy this week. None of the other colleges entered a varsity women's eight so Union was forced to break down into fours. First to race was the lightweight four whose competition included two boats from Radcliffe, one of the premier women's crews. Union's lightweight four finished fourth. Latter the women also rowed in the open four competition and took second behind a strong Vassar Crew. Despite being out-sized by the other boats, they finished in second place, five seconds off the winning time by Manhattan. Union took part in three· varsity men's events. The first was the open four, which finished third. Next up was the lightweight four whose strongest competitor was Lehigh. Lehigh brought only the one boat for the sole purpose of racing Union's lightweight four. However, they turned out to be no factor as Union moved passed the competition for a 20 second victory. The final race of the day was the open eight race. Union moved into the lead at the beginning of the race and held off Army for a 5 second victory. Manhattan and The British RAF were both over 20 seconds out of the race. This race was the first major test of the season. Last week, at Saratoga SJ)rints, Union faced mostly local competitors which we have done well against in the past. However, this weeks competition included Anny which usually dominates Unio11 Crews. The rnen turned things around this year as all the men's crews beat there West Point counterparts. The Union women also found themselves rowing side by side with the Army wome11. This provides an interesting setting for this weeks race against Hobart, William and Smith. Hobart, last year,. had one of the strongest men's crews in New York State. This years race for the Presidents Cup w'in be held at The Aqueduct Rowing Club on VanVranken, three miles fr;om campus. Come down and see what all the excitement is ~~bout Racing begins at n&on on Sunday, April i&th .. WRITE FOR SPORTS CALL 41~ 38 Qllir (llonrnrb irn.sis Kid Olympics by Lee Schachter Associate Sports ·Editor In one of the bi8 sporti11g events of this spri11g. term, til~ members of Union College's Interfraternity Council and Pan• Hellenic System in conjunction with Big Brothers/Big Sisters are planning the Kids Olympics~ a day devoted to the kids, competitition~ a11d an all; around great time. The event is scheduled for Saturday. May 8th, at the end of the sixth week of the tenn, Representatives from all of Union's fraternities and sororities have gotten together to plan. the event, which is being sponsored by the College, the Interfraternity ·Council, and Big Brothers/Big Sisters. The event has the support. of President Hull and the Mayor's Office. Some of the main activities of the day will include sporting events, compt.(titions, T -shirts, a big cookout, and possibly even clowns. If everything works out, the event may ,even. be picked up by the local newspapers and television stations. The day promises to be a day chock full -of competition .and fun, so get involved and get ready for a great time! The event is open to the entire Union Community, if you would like to get involved contact Lee Popper at x4099 Men's Tennis Looks Good In Loss by Christoph Ringwald Concordiensis Staff The Mens Tennis Team (0-1) lost 54 against the Rensselear Engineers (3-5) in their season- opener on April 8. This year's squad is coached by Jim Wilcon. Union's four wins carne from Steve Klopfer, playing number-two singles, Seth Sealfon, playing number-four singles, Jim Polites, playing number-six singles~ and Seth Sealfon and Evan Hyman at number-two doubles. This year's team is a young one, consisting of seven freshmen, two sophomores, one junior, and two seniors. Four of the top six singles players are freshme~. Coach Wilcon is optimistic about his young team. \I feel that we are only going to get ·better as the season progresses.\ The team's next matches, all at home, are against St. Rose, Colgate, and Vassar on April 16, 19, and 21. 0 Better Golf with JACK NICKLAUS N IC:.\4- FL'YING HEADWIND ' '/OU'O NORMALLY GO WITH THE: UJEOGE:., MAKE' ern-tER A TIH~e: E -qUAHI E R SWING WITH A 9-IR.ON OR A HALF -SWING WIIH AN 8-IRON. FIJI BASKETBALL MARATHON Friday, April 16th-Sat., April Noon to noon at tile fieldhouse. Benefits the N. Y .S. Head · Inj~ry . ' Association . 17th

Q.thr ·:Olour.orb irttsis ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT April IS, 1993, page B3 GREA'l, '\I;HINGS 1,0 COME A'\f UNION ARTS DEPARTMENT by Eric Budke Co1.1rtesy of Concert Committee The Screaming Trees are coming! Well, this six foot and over band from Washington will be in Achilles Rink on May fir.st with opening bands Poster Children and Pond also hailing :frcm Washington. If you haven~l!eard the Trees yet, you havell~t been l~stening to ·WRUCor WEQX or the \Singles\ soundtrack. They first became known throughout the US because they had a song on the \.Singles\ soundtrack that contained songs by a few other bands from the state of Washingt()n. Since then they have been .~etting air play all over the ccuntry. Currently it is coming ()ff of their new album \Sweet Oblivion\. This is ~· slightly differe11t kind of ba11d. I remember the first thing I said when we were trying to decide on bands for the spring concert. \No Seattle Bands!\ Well this is kind of a compromise,. they aren't from Seattle, btLt fairly close to it. They do ha:ve some similarities to Seattle bands but size is not one ·Of them. They are probably taller than our l>asketball team, and bigger than most of our football players (and they get paid better, just kidding). They thankfully din't sound like a generjc Seattle band, and provide some feeling a.long with the music. The songs actually have S<lme meaning, unlike \Teen Spirit\ by Nirvana, and S() far thay have done no Neil Di~ond songs. They have a lot stronger blues influence than other Seattle bands as is evi~ent with one :listen to \Dollar Bill.\ On Wednesd.ay WEQX played a co11c ert of the Screaming Tree~ from last year in Seattle. it was quite impressive consi(fering how much they have grown in the past year, and tile success of their first album. The opening band Poster Children has a )laster that is supposed to b u~ you out because it uses O)lposite colors of the spectrum, :i11stead of the actual ones. So far this has not worked on me, bui I can't say I've spent many sleepless UNION AJR1fS CAJLIEJN1DAJR APRIL IS-THURSDAY 7:00 PM Spanish Club Presents, \Romero 1 ' 9:00 PM Chet's! APRIL 16-FRIDAY 4:00-6:00 J>M Chet's: Heavy Breathing Ja:zz 8:00 PM & 10:00 PM CC Aud. Film- Aladdin 8:00 PM IVCF Coffeehouse at Fero APRIL 17-SATURDAY 7:00 PM Chet's: ALAS Party 8:00 & 1():00 PM CC Aud. Film- Aladdin 8:00 PM Coffeehouse at Fero: Guerilla Art APRIL 18-S.UNDAY 8:00 & 1():00 PM CC Aud. Film-Aladdin 9;p0 PM Chet's! APRIL 19-MONDAY 8:00 & 1():00 PM CC Aud. Film-Aladdin 9:00 PM Chet's! APRIL 20-TUESDAY 8:00 PM Coffeehouse at Fero: Earth Day Celeb. 8:00 PM Humanities 2nd floor lounge: P(letry Reading by Michael Burkard 8:00 PM Memorial Chapel: Concert-Melvyn Tan APRIL 21_-WEDNESDAY 2:30 PM ARTS 215: Lecture by Samuel E-dgerton-Art Historia.n 8:00 & 10:()0 PM CC Aud: Film-Truth or D:are 8:00PM CC AUD: Maura Cullen on Diversity 9:00 PM Chet's! APRIL 22-THURSDA Y 8:00PM Ol<i Chapel : Film Premiere \Within Reach\ 9:00 PM Chet's! nights trying to figure it out. At the show you may want to pick up the poster and try it for yourself. As a side note, the production manager at WEQX, Jitn McGuinn, produced Poster Children's first album and highly recommends them. Starting out the night will be Pond, which at Hae meonet I know nothing about except that the girl who answers the phone at WEQX was really excited about them coming. I will hopefully have more information next week about the two opening bands. The Screaming Trees will be doing a lot in th_e community before the show. On either the day before or the day of the show they will be giving an acoustic concert at the Record Shack in Albany which will be airing on WEQX along with an on air interview. Tickets will be going on sale in the lobby of the College Center during lunch between April 19th and 24th for $5 a piece. After that they will be available only on the day of the concert for $10 a piece. Keep looking in this section for future information. DEPARTMENT OF PERFORMING ARTS AT UNION COLLEGE PRESENTS.& Robert Desrosiers, Artistic Director of Canada's Desrosiers Dance Theater will .be a guest lecturer on Tuesday, April .20, 1993 at 10:00 am, in Arts .215. Mr. Desrosiers will show a documentary film, \The Blue Snake\ based on his award winning ballet and conduct a discussion with the audience. Of his work, Desrosiers states: \My inspiration comes from my heart and my demons.\ \From the heart comes the humor in my work, the simple ways of dealing with the colorful side of life. The nightmarish qualities are the demons -- the fears that man has because of ignorance. When we die our life becomes a memory, and the soul remembers these lives as we remember dreams. This universal drama fascinates and amazes me, and this is what I express in dance.\ The lecture is free and open to the public. DEPARTMEi~T OF VISUAL ARTS AT UNION COLLEGE PRESENTS: Art historian Professor Edgerton will deliver a lecture on April 21, 1993 at 2:30pm in Arts 215, entitled \Leonardo vs. Montezuma\. Samuel Edgerton, an acknowledged Renaissance scholar and director of the Williams College Graduate Program in the History of Art, has recently devoted considerable energy to the study of Meso American representation in general, particularly Maya representation through a series of courses and publications. In addition, Edgerhm recently curated an exhibition celebrating the quillcentenary of the western arrival in the new world at the Williams College Museum of Art. In this lecture, Edgerton will compare the life and work of Leonardo Da Vinci and Montezuma who were contemporaries in the New and Old Worlds. Tlte lecture is free and open to the public. $1,000 AN HOUR: Each member or your rrat. sorority. team. cJub •. etc. pitches in just orie hour aod.four ~roup can raise $1.000 in Just a few days! Plus· a chance to earn $1,000 for yourselfl No rosl. No ob~gation. 1-800..932·0528. ut. 65 DEPARTMENT OF VISUAL ARTS AT UNION COLLEGE PRESENTS: The visual Arts Department is pleased to announce the Annual Juried Undergraduate Exhibition which will open on Thursday, April 22nd in the Arts Atrium. Tllis celebration for all stude11ts participating in Visual Arts classes this year. A great many entries will be excepted for the exhibition and displayed throughout the Arts Building coinciding with the Steinmetz Symposium. An opening reception will take place at which the student artists. the Union college community and the public is invited This exhibition is ope11 to all students who have taken or are currently taking a visual Arts class in tlli s academic year - Fall 1992, Winter 1993 or Spring I 993 terms. W ark in all media, in two or three dimensions, is eligible. Work submitted .I!!.l.lSt have been made for one of the Visual Art classes. Work done outside of a class framework is !!Qteligible. Please submit up to three works to be reviewed by aiJ outside juror. Up to twt:) works per artist may be accepted and exhibited. For further informatiofl, please contact Professor Chris Duncan, Visual Arts Department at ext. 6201. • • DGERTON A· R ·T H · I· S :T · 0 · R · I· A· N VISITING SCHOLAR LECTURE: \LEONARDO vs. MONTEZUMA\ ARTS 215 2:30PM • ADMISSION FREE • PUBLIC INVITED

April IS, 1993, page B4 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT llthr <llonrvrbtrn.sis Frank: Calabria Ruthors Book on Dance Marathon Fad · Nat·asha's Sta·rs ·'. · · ' . . ARIES (March 21-April 19) Count hard. But do remember- not to get too on putting out an extraordinary amount c~rried away as you may spend the of effort this work week. You may be ~hole weekend making up for lost jumping through a superior's hoops, hme. Courtesy Public Relations Office Schenectady, N.Y.- Dance Marathons. They began as a popular craze during the 20s when Americans were on an emotional spree, but over the next three decades they evolved into a money:malcing sham that reflected the dark side of American culture. They drew some 20,000 contestants and audiences. mostly women, in the millions. Known as \a poor man's nightclub,\ dance marathons were what author Frank Calabria calls \the dog- end of American show business. \ In his book, Dance of the Sleepwalkers (Popular Press, 1993), Calabria descnbes the fonn of American entertainment which borrowed heavily from vaudeville, burlesque, night club acts and sports. Though condemned by vocal critics who regarded them as unsavory and immoral, the dance marathons held a peculiar fascination for Americans since they projected traits and values pervasive in America then and now. They mirrored the sham side of American culture, its commercialism and Calabria finds today's fads- piofessional wresting, roller derbies, American Gladiators- are not very different from yesterday's dance marathons. \These fads and crazes feed the hunger for thrills, spills and chills to bring excitement to oru everyday Lives.•• Calabria, professor emeritus of psychology at Union College, is also a psychotherapist and longtime teacher and studentof social dancing. His book-more than 20 years in the making-was inspires by two basic questions: What motivated men and women to enter dance marathons? and, What appeal did this entertainment/sport have f()r audiences? \The notion that there was something not quite right abo11t this fonn of amusement was confinned when I learned that few. if any dance endurance contests were run Oil the up and up,\ Calabria said. Many contests were staged by show promoters and professional dancers who shared in the pro<:eeds form the gate as well as gambling. he said. There was often collusion to heighten the melodrama; a floor judge played the \bad guy\ eager to disqualify a couple, while the \good guy\ emcee offered support. Both were employed whether you like it or not. Celebrate SCORPIO (October 23-November by the show promote .. r. earlY because y_sm will be (we promise.) 21) Clear your desk and return all your exhausted this weekend. calls ql1icldy this week. It is time to · There were also a number of T AUR.US (April 20-May 20) This focus on familial matters. Really look side attractions designed to week, therealtrick is to discover which at your home life and dare to create biing out the crowds-real and of those \wild .. ideas are worthwhile. what it is you want. You add a magic Follow through on a brainstorm, and quality to your life this weekend. mock weddings, cabaret and you are pleasantly surprised. Count on . SAGITTARIUS (November 22- comedy acts, even an act in being noticed be everyone, even this ;December 21) Approach a problem which a \contestant\ was weekend. Enjoy being the star. with detachment and seek out ex,pert entombedin blocks of ice. GEMINI(May21-June20)Someof advice. Any inroads you make this P Y ou may. be sweating taxes right now, week could pay· off in multiples down ostcards of \The Ice Act\ but a partner pitches in and relieves the road. Be more in synch with those performed by favorite some of the burden. Once your spirits around you. The winged horse will be contestants were Sold for ten start soaring, you may have a hard time happiest if he or she parks at home this cents a piece. landing,andprobably won't until mid- weekend. weekend. CAPRICORN (December 22- Historians and social critics CANCER (June 21-Iuly 22) Others January 19). Though another rnay of American popular culture may dominate this week, but you know choose to defy your will (or whimsy) 1 have either dismissed the dance you can tum it around and say \no\ at you still have it your way in the long endurance contest as a any given moment. This weekend, run. Be careful withmoney. It can drift lamentable expression.· of plan on a wild frolic with a loved one out.of your wallet in the most amaiing as an esca~fromthe day-to-day grind. manner. Above all, remember who you American mania during the Use your imagination. are and what you have to offer. turbulent 1920s or damned it as LEO (July 23-August 22) You've AQUARIUS (January 20-February a dehumanizing spectacle been rather compulsive about getting 18) Others may think you're not your- your work in order lately, and this - self, hllt they discover otherwise mid- accompanying the hard times theme continues into this week. How- week. You were just busy thinking of the Depression, Calabria ever, please plan on making some time overyour optio~. You are empowered said. But dance marathon~ for your social life. . this week to make what you want hap- were much much more. VIRGO (August 23-September 22) pen. Use your magnetism and count on Ope b It has been said· that imagination is a wonderful week. rated . Y .paternalistic, more important than knowledge. You PISCES (February 19-Marcb 20) often authoritarian, show demonstrate this aU week long. Others Examine how much you rely on a promoters, the dance marathons notice a new quality in you and seek friendship. Be careful not to alienate became for many professional you out. Remember, you have choice tllis special person as you may need and amateur contestants an on y.our side, so please feel free to call· their support. When you feel dow~ the shots. know tltis too will pass. Indeed by the \innocent jail,\ Calabria LffiRA (September 23-0ctober 22) weekend. you forget all yourproblems writes. \Couples were Make sure your home is in order this and just reljsh the moment. virtually incarcerated for weeks week, as you will need tlus sanctuary. Cl993 by King Features Synd. • • or months at a time, segregated r-I_f_yo_u_w __ or_k_h_ar_d_, m_a_k_e_s_ure_y_ou __ PI_ay------~--~--. in living quarters, deprived of nonnal sleep. and required to compete daily in arduous walking or running contests. tWrite :For .9Lrts • • • We ilope that everyone is taking advantage of Chet's new hours of operation. The Chet's committee would like to thank the BROTHERS (SORRY that last week's misprint was my fault) of Phi Iota Alpha for bringing the comedian Steven Solis to Chet's last night. We hope that everyone took advantage of this enjoyable evening. TO.NIGHf (Thursday) Chet's will be open ftom 8prn until lpm and will be serving wings. TOMORROW (Friday) Chet's will have it's usual HAPPY MEDIUM at 4pm. This will be accompanied With Heavy Breathing Jazz. Students · and faculty please join us. This week Chet's will be open on SATURDAY night (a special night) for the ALAS party. All students are invited to this affair. The Alas party will be held at 7pm. Next Week Chet's will be open on it's regular days ..• Monday with wings, Wednesday. Thursday, and Friday. Hours will be 8pm untillpm daily. Keep an open eye for new happenings at Chet's ... and all are asked to join meetings Thursday at 4pm in CC409. Sue Coe: Jimmy Carrying Veal. 1991. Etching. Copyright 1991 Sue coe. Courtesy Galerie St. Etienne, New York, I SELECTED PRINTS BY ARRANGEMENT WITH THE GALERIE ST. ETIENNE, NEW YORK April 5- May 2, 1993 RECEPTION: FRIDAY, APRIL 9, 5-7 PM; ARTIST'S TALK: 7:30PM Russell Sage College Gallery SCHACHT FINE ARTS CENTER TROY, NEW YORK 12180 518/270-2248 ~ALLERY HOURS: WEEKDAYS 9-4:30; SATURDAYS & MAY 2, NOON-Ll 1993-1994 Full Year or By Term 7 BEDROOM HOUSE Large bedrooms, 2 Modern bathrooms, Modern Kitchen, AU appliances included, Large deck, Closets galore!! 11 A 21 year student tradition II 370-5498 leave message ( 3&4 bedroom apartments also available~

<!rht Cllnnr.orbir.tt.si.s FEATURES Tensions Questioned Between Schenectady Residents · and U nlon Students .by Jennifer Unterberg Contributing writer The summer prior to my freshman year, I received a newspaper from the Orientation Committee, welcoming me to Union. The newspaper was filled with infonnation regarding courses and activities. One section gave answers to questions a new student might ask. One asked \What's the best view of Schenectady?\ The answer given exclaimed, \From your rear view mirror!\ I laughed, at the time, grateful for the sense of bumor regarding Schenectady, New York ... the city I feared. College was S13,.839, whereas the annual income per capita of a Sc'henectady resident was $10,224. Nine months of the year, these 2,000 men and women who 'l::lttend Union (1992's expense Of $24;000), rummage through Schemectady, using its establishments for utilities, as well as entertainment. Al:though a, mere 2,000 students invade a total population ()f people of 65,000~ their existence is noticeable. Continuously interacting with one another, the students and the people of Schenectady 1\ave less than a hospitable relationship. Many Union students predicated SIICh aggression .. \They must '!late us. They probably think we are the biggest snobs,\ one student responded wben asked to I have now spent four years living in Schenectady. For three years, however, I have remained behind a fence. Constructing a barrier around my: school and around my life here; I have ventured beyond the. gates of Union, only when Union has not been able to fulfill all of my needs. With one tenn. left. I have come to realize ·that the continuous interactions between Union students and the town of Sc'henecta~y must be examined, for although. my time in Schenectady is ending, new generations of students will continue to migrate into this city. predict possible views held by employees of Schenectady towards Union students Beyond the gates of Union, exists a town wbere a large majority of employees possess extremely hostile feelings towards the students of Union with whom tbey interact nine months out of t1Ie year. Bi~o~.lhe-gates ~'t, ·- \ •··· . . '~ U:qion:exists ·a town . A survey was dis.tributed to 75 randomly chosen students, asking students to . list· the places in Scltenectady they frequented during the school year. The establishments -·consisted (.if tistaurruits·, 'bit{s; convenience stores. and where a large majority of employees possess extremely hostile feelings towards the students of Union with whom they interact nine months of the year Through interviews and observations of interactions between students and residents of Schenectady, my eyes have been opened to the hostility and tension which exists between the two groups. Therefore, it is crucial for the student body and the administration of Union College to acknowledge the feelings and attitudes shared by the Schenectady residents, and propose solutions to rectify this problem. Union College has existed in Schenectady, New York since 1795. Throughout the years,.both Union College and its surrounding towns have gone through changes. The 1970's marked a decade of change for both Union College and Schenectady. Union College became coeducational, while Schenectady went through a drastic economic change. In 1975, the relocation of G .E Headquarters to Fairfield, MA stifled the economy of Schenectady. supermarkets. . Extensive irAterviews were perfonned with the employees of these establishments. After learning of th<~ intention to educate Union students on the positive or negative effects of their behavior, the employees were eager to convey their feelings. Not only did I engage in interviews, but observed actual interactio11s between the employees and Union students, as well, as ol>serving the employees interactions with Schenectady residents. The employees were primarily between the ages of seventeen and twenty-two. Investigations began at a popular bagel restaurant. At 7:30am, customers, consisting of Schenectady residents, began arriving for breakfast. The atmosphere was pleasant with sounds of friendly conversations between workers and customers filling the air. \What's the flavor of the week?\ One customer inquired. \Harry my old friendf\ Exclaimed an employee. \Cream cheese today?\ The manager asked with a smile. \Is your birthday over,\ a customer asked the shift supervisor. \Have a good day, Diana,\ an employee shouted as the woman left the restaurant. At a break in the rush of customers, I asked the employees, \What do you think about Union College students?\ A male worker spit seventeen year old female employee :said, \They're just inconsideaate.\ Another employee elaborated. \In the beginning • my co- workers wuned me, 'wait until Union gets here'. Basically the students have the attitude, 'I don't live here, I have money, I can do what ever I want'. Some of them know they need to go fast in the line, but others don't taJk. Tbey're downright inconsiderate. They come in and take over the place.\ As the morning grew old, The silver spoon kids. Sore. All the guys have short hair, wear .baseball hats, jeans, and windbreakers or shirts from J .:Crew or Macy's. Union stmde11ts began coming in. The atnl<lsphere changed from a rewed environment to strict busime:ss. Efficiency replaced friendliness. A twenty-two year old emJlloyee res p o n de <I ~ i thou t hesitation ,when asked for a description of a typical Union student? \The silver spoon kids? As the average income of the residents of Schenectady declined, the expense of a Union College education increased. In 1985, the expense of attending Union on the ground, ·~that''s what I think about Union students; The four employees joined in raughing, \I'd say about 60% of them are snobs,\ a Sure. AU the guys have short hair, wear basepall hats jeans, windbreakers, and sweaters or shirts from J.Crew or Macy's. The girls wear baggy jeans and sweatshirts with Greek letters or their boyfriend's sweaters or these real baggy sweaters that are in this year.\ \Can you tell a Union student by how they act?\ \First of all, they all come in hoards and all they do is order a bagel and water. They don't talk to the waiters. the workers have to yell at them. Oh,. they all eat tomatoes and sprouts. The workers joke when the students,come in, they say, 'get out the tomatoes and the sprouts~.\ · \Oh yeah, they are sopiclw. 'I want cream cheese, but on the side. Tomatoes, but 011 the side, and three instead of two, and not in quarters.' Everytlling has to be on the side, im d they all order it that way,\ \The o11e thing I'll say is that they do not clean up after themselves. I mean do their parents let them act this way? We're talking, knocking over a chair and not picking it up.\ After such negative responses, an answer to a final question seemed predictable. \Do you favor the summer, when Union students are not here?\ Surprisingly, the answer ·was \no\. The manager explained, \In the summer, we have to Cllt down shifts. You take two Union students and they can spend $10.00 each, April 15, 1993, page B5 Average Schenectady Resident's Income was $10.224 in '85 Wealth of the Aveage U11.ion Suttlent recognized and questiotzed by All these kids bring in a lot of money.\ At a nearby fast food restaurant, two seventeen year old girls stood at the counter waiting to take orders. \Wh.at do you think about U11ion College students?\ I inqui.Ied. \I hate them,\ one announced, \they're stuck up, especiaUy the girls.\ Her co-workers reasoned~\ Well, you have to have mo11ey to go to Union and you have to be smart, the combination of the two makes you snotty_ I wouldn't go to Union becatJse they're all so snotty. You wa11t an example? 'I want a green salad with the vinaigrettes salad dressing. 'Like, oh my God!\' Union students drive expensive cars, dress in fine clothing, and attend a $24,000 a year institution. Assessed from their comments, Schenectady residents regard attending Union as dependen~ on financial resources. These resources have not been earned by the students, rather, they have been obtained by their parents. As quoted by a Schenectady police officer~ \The people of Schenectady are, if anything, jealous of tfle kids' parents who have the money to give their children.\' This article will be contimud in next weeks issue

April15, 1993, page B6 Poetry Ode To Exercise A Poem By Erin M. O'Neil My mom says I should exercise So to humor her I tried. Slapped' on a pair of running .shoes And headed on outside. A perimeter should be easy e11ough, \Justdo it!\ my will power did shout. I motored·up the first big hill, and at the top- passed out. \Maybe running's just not my thing.\ I rationalized in vain. \Aerobics- that's it! I'll give it a shot!\. I entered the gym (a.k.a. House of Pain). So I bounced for a while- to the left, and righ~ .. my arms flopped up and doW!l. The girl to my right got a little rambunctious Clocked me in the head- I passed out on the ground. Running, aerobics, hey how 'bout a swim I slipped into a suit so sleek. I entered the pool, guys were craning their necks In hopes of catching a peek. Gracefully slid I, into the water. My calling, it seemed, I had found. When I came to, I was receiving CPR, they said I had nearly drowned. Mom called today to see how I've been. \How• s the exercise going?,\ she pried. \Just great dear mother- triathalon's tomorrow!\ I humored her with a lie. The moial then to lose this weight, Is to exercise our delicate h~ts. Not by running or swimming or bouncing in tights But by bowling and beer pong and darts. FEATURES Q!hr Qlnnrnr:birn~is Can Guys and Girls Just Be Friends? The Never End_ing Question Attempted Again Alel::is Leist Features Writer No matter what, sometime in life a guy-friend or girl- friend comes along and is thought of as more than a friend. This goes back to the theorv uresented in the movie When Harry Met Sally.· Can· guys and girls be just fnends? Well, some may answer yes and some may answer no. .I will be vague and say it's a combination of the two. To come up with my answer I considered several different situations. Scenario 1: A guy and a girl are best friends. They share evervthin2:: know everything about each other. They ·have been close for a long time. Both have had relationships with other people but none Of them have ever worked out. They couldn't share with their boyfriend or girlfriend what they shared with their best-friend. One of them begins to think of the other as something more than a best friend. He tells her, o:r she tells him his or her feelings. And they decide to give it a try. Now, for some this can work, ·but for bthers it can't. Some people find it hard to have a relationship with someone who knows everything about y<>u. : Sometimes people find they don't want to tell their \boyfriend or girlfriend everything. This is perfectly understandable. If it works OIJt, good for you. It is great to have such an ()pen and trusting relationship. The person is both your pminer and your best friend, what more could anyone ask for? Scenario 2: A girl and a guy are together. It is a good relationship, they get along and every.thing seems ,to re fine. Although they were ·friends before they started seeing each other, they werenlt very Close. Their relationsllip lacks s()mething. They do11't know e11ough about each other. You see, in my opinion there is a p()int where one knows too much and a point wltere one kttows too little. In this case, it doesn't work out. So~. tbey decide to stay friends. Surprisingly, ,they lll'e better off as friends and become extremely close. This is a case where two people start out as more than friends but realize they are better off as friends. These things happen. And the friends made fr()m situations like this are usuany lifelong. Scenario 3: Ok~ a guy and girl are best-friends but one of them has a girlfriend or boyfriend .• or maybe both do. In either case, this is definitely a strange situation. No matter how in love two .(Jeople are if they have a best fiieq<l of the opposite sex, at one point in the relationship their mind will wander and they will begin to start thinking what if? Moreover, a boyfriend or girlfriend will often question why their partner Jieeds: a best friend of the opposite seJC.. 'fhey should be able to :tell each other everything, right'! ·well, ·sometimes it's hard. For example, if the couple is in a fight, one of the two migllt often want advic(f from .. ~n outside sotirce. And oft~il- '()~e of the two will be so ~ngry that .they need their best fiip.nd to compain .to (if you get what l mean) on the whole situatio11. Scenario 4~ A guy and ,~irl are friends. Strictly frjends. Both know that no matter what, they probably co11ld never be more than frie.I.ids. Definitely a rare situation~.but it can he found. This is perfect, because 'both are aware of where they stand and don't have to worry about hav;ing ,a boyfriend or a girlfriP.nti , So, can guys and girls just be friends? At times yes, and at times no. Sotnetim es friendship can grow out <lf something more. Sometimes friends can ·become somethil\g more. Some people are only meant to be more than friends. Some people are only meant to be friends. There are so many people out there, who knows what can happen? · ·Coupon Corner , by Diana Queenan Here are this week's offers: ROBITUSSIN/DIMETAP·P CMN REFUND OFFER, P.O. Box 110430, El Paso, Texas 88511-()430 (receive $1). Send in the UPC sym- bol from Robitussin or Dimetapp, any size except trial. Stpre fonn re- quired. Expires 5/31/93. No refilnds will be sent to P.O. Boxes. BUFFER1N/THERAPEU1'IC MINERAL ICE REFUND, P.O. One or· Those Days Box 14241, Baltimore, Md. 21268 (receive up to $6). For $3, send in your cash register receipt plus the UPC symbol from the purchase of any Bufferin product, 30-count or larger, or Therapeutic Mineral Ice. Michelle Rosenbaum Features writer For· $6, send the UPC from both favorite tapes. Ranging from you feel better about yourself W<>rld are having bacl days. products. Store form required. Ex- Doll Henly to B.eetboven, and exercis~ is an excellent There are also thousands who pires 5/31/93. No refunds will be Have you ever had one of those days? You wake up and it's pouring outside. You want to go back to sleep, but you can't miss your exam at 8:45 A.M.! You walk all the way to the bathroom and realize you forgot your towel so you have to walk all the way back. The shower is cold water only. Your hair sirnpl y curls up from the humidity. Realizing you're late, you run outside, forgetting an umprella and slipping on the pavement. It can't ge~ much ·worse can it? Yes it can! You take the test and really screw it up even though you studied for hours. You find out your best friend is mad at you, but you don't know why. The day can go on forever! Actually, there are ways to make you feel better when one of these days approaches you. · One of the best things to do is take a nap. When you awake it could feel like a new day. Lack of sleep could definitely be a cause of one of those awful days. A simple half hour 'power nap' could do the trick! Set your alarm dock though , because. too much sleep won't do you any good. You'll just he more tired. Don't sleep to silence. Put on one of your anything will get your mincl off way to do il When you finish are having great days. So try sent to P.O. Boxes. your troubles. you'll feel complete! to turn your thoughts to those FREE TUB ORGANIZER, P.O. It's also good to take a walk. You can always do the 'Play with good days. They found Box 7272,Monticello,Minn. 55563- Even if it is raining, wear a Fair' thing from Orientation. reasons to be happy, so can 7272 (receive a free bathtub or- ~.. , ganizer). Send in the entire ~ash jacket! It will give you a Jump on someone's shoulders yo11! If you can't, tuere s register receipt with the Dow chalice to think abou1life more and scream! I don't know if always tomorrow! Bathroom Cleaner purchase circled · clearly and it's quality time to that's something too proper to Right now I'm definitely along with the push-out tab from yourself. You'll feel refreshed do, but it's worth a try. It's a exJ>eriencing \one of those Dow's \Scrubbing Bubbles· .. afterwards and more 1ela:xed. good way to meet someone days.\ To sum it all 11p, just Bathroom Cleaner. Sticker on pack- Calling one of your friends new. It seems a little strange, put the past behind yo11 and age required. Expires 5/31/93. from home is a g<lDd way to but live on the edge! have a g<lod time. That•s what QUICKIE MANUFACT1lR- ING CORP., c/o $2 . .50 help. It will get your mind <lff Talking to your roommate <lr I'm doing tonight. I thinlc that's BULLDOZER CASH REBATE all tile problems at U11io11. Just anyone who's great at listening the best remedy! OFFER, P.O. Box 175, Cinnarnin- hearing a voice from home can is always good. Simply ask a ·}----.- · -=---~=----~--- ·· son, NJ. 08077 (receive $2.50). give you a sense of security friend for a hug. Some tender ,PARTY .Send in your cash register receipt . and~hapniness. We alf need loving care is always needed, along w~t!t the UPC symbol and that every once in awllile: especially when it's \one of ~ Quickie logo from the front of pack- , · • age from Quickie Bulldoz:er Ye>u could always call your those days!\ Remember, Pushbroom with Handle. Store form parents, sister, brother, or you're never alone. Every day required. Expires5/3l/93. Limit two anyone else who you can easily thousands of people in this ___ .:.:.===~======~---_Jr~efifumn!!!ds~pe~r.Qcus~tomm~e:tr. _____ , let your anger out on who · :von't get i~sulted. !t really Mars 1sn'ta good Idea to pr0Jec1 your anger on someone else, but sometimes it' has to be done. Be careful on who yo;u let your frustrations out on. If some one's having a great day,. don't snap at them. Just walk away if you feel annoyed. Don\t ruin Women and Needs Needs Writers! Features Interviews- Lifestyles- H· urn or someone else's good da:y just because yours isn't going too Features- well. the section to first. people turn Working out usually do.es the trick. Go to aerobics c:lass, go running. use the 11amtilus equij)ment, play racquetball, use tltc exercise bike, .etc. You Call Erin or Doug need to do something to make '----~--------------------------------~ x-4156 x-4040 - - I

Qthr airittrllrb irttsht The Spring Utra Greenberg and Stepllanie Fontana wi11ter months, leaving their Contribnting Wrtiters homes~ occasionally for classes., -~~------~~-' lmt the same ones who drive there~ Us here again. Spring has sprung, and with it another nauseating display of the exercise oaze. Some strange, mysterious chemical given off by the sun motivates even the laziest of Union worthies to leave their desks, apartments. dorms and bar rooms. They get out the spandex from the crypt of tile past spring and venture into the life · of the outdoors. It shows up in many forms, rangillg from tennis to skydiving .. A$ I walked ftom my room to the College Center, I saw people in their athletic ensembles walking, running, roller blading and biking. These are the people who not only hibernate during the The most common activity one can see the ,pseudo- exerciser doing is the peri.meter. Only the gifted few can do all extended perimeter. 'These :pseudo-exercizers do the wall:/run, running only when .approaching a fraternity or sorority. Another common f()flll of .spring motivation is seen in aerobics classes. This type is u:Sually short-lived due to tile slave driving tendencies of the instructors who whoop and yell at those- in the back row that start slacking. This weeds out many, but the determined die-hards find themselves another activity since- we cannot all be Jane Fbndas. Roller blading. the sport of FEATURES Craze the 90's, what's up with that? . Are they speed .skaters training in the off season? I doll't think so. To the untrained eye the :knee pads, elbow pads and gloves .are very impressive, but to the .more experienced it is evident that what loo:ks like a sport is little more than a social activity. Hint: Blading to class does not provide an effective cardiovascubr work out. The purpose of the day's e~ercises are defeated: 'by the mghtly indulgence of beer and cigarettes. But let's face it, we can't aU be perfect, because as we wea know, only ,the rare driven person can stick: to the exercise regiment. So enjoy it while it lasts! . . · . · Super Crossword · · ·. . .. - . . . . . ' ACROSS continues 91Chlnese 6 :Plant of the 41 Der:isive 69 Elegance of 1 '!Monopoly\ 55 Buddhist communist arum family grimace cl:lbes monk leader manner 7 Lift one's hat 42 Greel< 71 Repeatedly 5 Stork or 56 Worked in 94- Solo, of in greeting goddess of 73 Official &gret another's \Star Wars\ &Flightless the moon proclamation 10 Blade of place 95Self- bird down 44 Tuscany art 74 Nest of grass 57 Made public assurance under center pheasilnts 15 Carried away 58 Noisy, 96Barber's call 9 Abyssinian 45 Tapestry 75 Palmer pegs by 10119 confused 97 An~CieJlt city, prince wall ha11ging 77 Mountt~ln In 19 Skunl{'s fight once the 10Free from 47 Marked Thessaly defe11se 59 Cariobean porto! obstacles bravery 78 Days,iln 20Appa11to souvenirs? Roome 11 East Indian stimulator 60Malign or 48 Word with Spain 99 Fairy trees board or 79 Axliket-ool 21 French slander godmother's 12 India, at al. wheel 80 Draft CJrg _ painter 61 Those under stick 13Ump's 49 Actress 86 T.E. 22 Norse deity legal age 100 RC>manian cousin Charlotte, et LawrellCe's 23 Start of 62 Daughter of coi:ns 14DDE;s al. adopted lloliday Mohammed 101 Fr. holy domain 51 Last syllable name lege11d 65 Lead players we>man 15Graduate's of a word 87 Word after 27 Blueprint 66' It's off-limits 104 End of robe 52 Alpaca·s war or poke add-on to dieters leQend 16 Popular old cousin 88 ltalian,resort 28 F\irst Arabic ~7 Hand-plaited 110 Head, in saying 53 Japa11ese 89 Leased letter hat Toulouse 17\8ig- Don't silk 90 Theater sign 29 Long periods 68 Originates 111 Pickling Cry\ (1962 54 Rowsol 91 Maxim Df time 69 Railbird solution song) seats 92Verypale 30 Point of view 70The end 112 CtJti n two 18Where to find 58 Nanki·Poo's 93 Giant !Jrass 31 Hastened 71 Buckwheat 113 CDnstellation Aconcagua father 95 Vellletlfke 32\0ead- stem i11the Milky 24Baby SO Novelist fabric Society\ covering Way perches Danielle 96 Ingenuous [movie) 72 Neptune's 114 Unique thing 251acocca and 61 Noted tenor 98 Road to 34 Cui-de- - scepter 11510 test . Trevino Lanza Rome 36 Dan(Jerous 7~ Drama lead- de\leloper 26Anagram of 62Widely 99Wagon or. curve in 116 Brought to a acre known cart of yore 37 Stand firm 77 Legend close 31 Before now 63Anoint, 100 Frank and against continues • 117 Angel or 32 Chinese wax formerly blunt 40- rai:lbit 81 River in en~my lead- 33 Swan genus 64\The 101 Prophe-t (dish' Germany in 34 Word before Crescent 102 Magnesium 41 Early 82 Roadside DOWN days or Moon\ silicate temples sign 1 Ready for dressing author 103 Greenland 43 \- the Rooi'' 83 At liberty serving 35Dill weed 65 Sharpen a settlement (1963 song) 84 Caesar's 2 Pedestal 37 Dull, fixed razor 105 Recede 44 Misstle- fatal date occupant routine 66 Humorous 106 Derni.er- storage 85 City in the 3 Monk's hood 38 Epic poetry Danish 1 07 Article in structure R~hr valley 4History 39 Daytime TV pianist Newsw~ek? 45 Auk genus 87 Trail mark on chapter fare 67 Apple or pear 108 Pallid 46 At a11y time a tree 5 Pickpocket's 40\The -of 68 Beautiful, in 109 Eggs, to 50 Legend 89Niche go.al War\ Bonn Cicero April15, 1993, page B7 New and Umlcle Uncle Edna is a Union College student who answers realquestions from real people. The New and Improved editions of Uncle Edna wi:ll be more of a smorgesbourg of things prom.ising to get whites whiter and make brights brighter. Write new all-temperature, all- colo-r Uncle Edna at box 83 _ You'll be glad you did. Edna's Mailbox Dear Uncle Edna, This new validine system frightens me. Is it actually in our best interest, or is it merely another way of brainwashing our innocent minds? Please, fiU me in. -JA DearJA, From what I know this validine thing looks great. Wben you use your validhw card you actually get cash hack, just .like the Discovery card. You also get discounts at hotels and college cafeterias nation-wide. Furthermore, the Student Forum has informed me that the new validine system will be accepted at Uni()n Beverage, and maybe even Gepetto's. Isn't that exciting! Bon Appetite! Dear Readers: The institution of the vali- dine system brings a unique dilemna to our esteemed campus. What's going to hap)Jen to the men and women who punch our mealcards? What will they do? In tribute to those who have given so much of themselves to the punching of mealcards, I declare this Mealcard Puncher Appreciating Week. Today, as you enter your particular favorite dining facility, tell whomever punches your card that you will miss them. I wanted to name a mealcard puncher of the year, but after consulting with a few close friends, I couldn't decide who it wo11ld be. Is the best mealcard puncher Tish from West or UpJJerclass Steve? I will leave that up to you, the student body of Union. Improved JEdml~t Through<lllt the week, I will be in the C()llege Center taking your vote for the new Meal card · Puncher()fthe Year Awrud. Is it Tisb, or is it Steve? You make the call. Edna's Top Ten Top l 0 things Upperclass Steve says.: 10. \Hello!\ 9. \Thll.11k You!\ 8. \Would you like to sign UJJ for the Culinary Ex::JK')se this Friday?\ 7. n.a. 6. n.a. 5. n.a. 4. n.a. 3. n.a. 2. n.a. L n.a. I bet you Freshmen can't wait t<> go and sec for yourscl ves.. Crack Hall of Fame This weeks inductees into the Crack Hall of Fame arc: The Skipper, The Professor, MaryA11me, Ginger, The Howells .and Gilligan. The Skipper qualifies for keeping liJP his weight so well even th()u_gh all they ate was fruit for fifteen years. Ginger qualifies for having all those clothes and for being such a sluL Mary An11e is in for making all those pies with no ingredien:ts or equipment. The Howells are in for having th()se stupid cocktail umbrellas in their drinks. The Pr01fessor qualifies for being such a MacGyver. Gilligan, well, Gilligan ~anaged to mess up the escape m every show. Obvious Crack addiction. Student of the Week Suzanne Silverstein, for her efforts to save the schoolch il.drcn of Antarctica from the frostbite plague. We should all take a lesson from Suzanne. . \Act friendly, Carlos. But rernember If they try anything funny, blast 'em. We've g~t to teach these savages what it means to be civilized.\

D ~~ l-O'RV IN tlfA\'fN fORGI~E. . Me rott -rnts ~·1\..t Slt·J l AWl 4\Boi)T 10 CoM·~ tT. i.¥~\'!;~.f. Q\}~f:>\ \0 G€\ f.l.,. L\r£ (.ON\\ N\Jt=.b ... RATZ by BEN SMITH NOT ~utlt t.l.l/ Wlrt BOUcntT CAI-JD'I CRAWFOR\l~ 1-1-U..UI 130\W-~fl~t.(G \1\tlED. I'll€. ~ IJSihG TI-IAT' 10 i<!:E.I> HI l-1\\ti,;Y. \ OUT ON A LIMB by GARY KOPERVAS RE.MeMBe£.: :I V0N1\ lUAtrr 10 Ger IN\JOWfV. '1\~L:Lo ... \)~f:OL\jb\) N\'i~ ~~~u;~ ? ~ou c..A\'\ c~L-1.- D'?f \·~S t;:6P.,.Re.- ~. \ fO\jND \~S oi\At=.R \-DC\<. \ ~AWTS W\-\0 TAI<E- AVVA\J~G£ Of 1\-\oSE. \I'IPS SAT F~\ - WI IU\r~ AN\>.I LUlL.\.. AA\JE ~e PR.\' ~HEAT WAST AtJD WA~- .)VNI~, \-£RE, \liiW. AA'JE ~ DOOYIL.€- ~t:\:R oF . \'ME- \Su ~ AIV\? 1{)F.F.\ WOMOTIONS ... \I don't give a darn if you are a speed reader! I. will not turn the pager' ~ .... \1.~\<1/l'{ j;., ~~~'{ GPb.t;;, gy \N i~\t; CITY SEfoRE: t;9N\~~'< \~\..\..(.. N>E- l'\-\t\\ \ K~ow I ~\l\ FOR ~~ ~\'\=\; oF ~~ \ f?ON'T KNOW 't{I-\E.RE l CA~ f:.'T\ C.\-<. II .. , . ~ \'\-~~ .,., d.~ .. \J), .. . . \They're no big deal. They taste like everything else we've tried.\ \Happy anniversary! And tell your wife we all enjoyed the erotic letter she faxed you!\ ... ~ \'9 F•llur_•S s,o..1E..;,I._ \\ WOtld IIIJhbo (f,lllnd \It says, 'I've fallen and I can't get up!\' HARMAcY

' : Business. . Page 8! ln . Xhitlssue: 'Feat11res ............ pU i. Features. Paie 14: :Abortion c~n . no .longer be looked at :naively · News Analysis ........ p6 A&E, ..•.....•.....•. ,.pl7 · Business .·· . . · p8 Sports ............... p l9 'w· ... ·or\'d·· N··;w···s .. ·~······:·\ ~p·· 7 .Comic:s •.•.. :, ....... p18 . /' . ,1, \( ' ...... .,.......... . ' . . . 1 · S.cience .• : .......... ~ ••.•• u.p9. Letters .............. pl. Continuation of the Tensions in Schenectady ' ' ',' ' I; .. : The Student Newspaper of Un.ion College Since 1·377 Vot CXII. No.20 Parking Dilemmas by Alexandra Kreisler Contirbuting Writer Campus parking has plagued Union College for years and this dilemma continues to haunt the campus today. The ·routine procedure of campus parking is that all faculty and staff, in addition to all students, (commuting or resident) must register their cars. Upon registration, individuals are asked to pay a small fee of three dollars in exchange for the campus parking privilege. In addition, all individuals who register their car, receive a map of Union's campos, which specifically highlights the do•s and don't's of parking on campus. While tllis may seem like a very simple proce<lure. the· issue of parking regulations has turned into a war between the student body and campus operations. According to Director Gf Security/Safety. Paul Mantica, \there are a number of people on campus who abuse and/or misuse the parking priviledge, which make'S it an inconvenience for those who use it properly.\ It is for this reason that security has been and continues to be so strict about administering parking tickets. Parking illegally (according to the campus map), is not only inconvenient. but most recently it has become a safety hazard as well. Mantica explains that the College Center circle has never been a parking area. but people have abused the option of leaving tlleir car there for \two seconds\ to check their mail. Two seconds typically turns into a half hour of schmoozing through the College Center. Once one person violates the CC circle, then other people follow, thinking that it is legal to park there. As a result. the CC circle becomes completely blocked. causing a major safety violation, Mantica states that \two delivery trucks were recently blocked in at the CC circle. If we ever needed to get a fire engine or ambulance through, it would not be possible.\ This possibility has prompted the recent barricading of the College Center c:itt:le. Mantic;a also reports that there have been many accidents at the CC circle, as weU as plants and shrubs mindlessly run-over. Because people have responded to the gates on the CC circle by constructing a new way to park up the side of the CC circle, the gates will remain. Many arguments have been made that there are no signs on campus indicating where parking is and is not pennitted. Mantica says that signs have Schenectady, NY been put up, but due to vandalism they have been torn right down. Furthennore, Mantica states \the main concern of campus operations is the safety and welfare . .of the .students.\ A. severe ticketing regiment seems to be the only way to authorize any semblance of order on Union's parking campus. Last year campus safety attempted to opeo the CC circle to limited parking, with the premise that the College Center is a central place for faculty and students. However, Mantica explained that .. this soon turned in to the College Center circus, n()t the College Center circle,\ due to the number of cars parked all A.L.A.S. Angered with Administration by Angela Rudolph Contributing Writer In an effort to raise the consciousness of the Union College \community\ and keep the lines of communication open, the Action C<>mmittee of the African and Latino Alliance of Students presents the following as an updated list of the concerns addressed in the March 19th letter to the Board of Trustees, Administration and Faculty. This list represents the most pertinent and feasible issues. (1) The Minority Affairs Committee was superseded by the President's Commission of Diversity. (2) The President's Commission on Diversity has no clear view of its actions. The Commission was set up before Hull's presidency. The commission does not do a lot. It is not funded. The president's . name has been removed from the 'The President's Commission on Diversity'. This will allow the Commission to make decisions without consulting the president. In doing this, the Commission hopes to become more pro-active. (3) Dean Trish Williams had the title of the Multi- cultural Affairs Officer. Since she has been Dean of Residence Life, the position has yet to be filled. (4) fhe Multi-Cultural Affairs Office --Not convinced that a scllool of this size needs a Multi-Cultural Mfairs Office, according to Hull. he will make a decision on May 17th- - after he knows what the Freshmen Class will consist of and how much money will be allotted in Financial Aid. (5) A. Latina Counselor will be in the Counseling Center as of Fall '93, for six hours a week and not exclusively for Latino concerns. (6) Despite the administration's concern of AIDS in Africa, an Africa Tenns Abroad to Kenya will be in place. Professor Quaye will be going to Africa this summer to set up programming. (7) The possibility of Non-Western studies exists in Section IV. We suggest formation of a subcouncil to address moving Non-Western History to Section I. (8) Africana Studies Program --There are presently classes that would fall under the auspices of an Africaoa Studies Program. We ask that the Academic Affairs SubCouncil on Inclusion be reconvened with Professors Quaye and A.T. Miller as members. On April 17, 1993, tile Action Committee met with the entire B<>ard of Trustees to discuss the concerns that were presented in the March 19th letter to the Board of Trustees, the President of the Colle8e. and various members ()f the college administration. Tile Board of Trustees were· asked to discuss our requests, and if they concurred to write a letter of support to the Action Committee. They are also cont. 011 pg2 .. the way up to 1the entry gate. Needless to sa:y. :this privilege was suspended. Are .there a11y solutions to this chronic proJ)Iem? Mantica mentions that tllere has never ~n any talk a})Qut expanding parking spaces. but just the opposite. There lias, however, been conversation about making Unio11 a pedestrian campus. whicil would remove all parking problems since cars would only be J)ermitted on the outside of campus. Mantica feels that the campus lacks a April 22, 199:.1 sense of community, because several members of the faculty and staff, as wen as a number of students, have failed to adhere to the parking rules. Union's campus is small enough to walk to and from places, so Mantica advises students to leave their cars in the resident lots to avoid any ticketing confusion. In terms of driving to the library or anywhere else on campus at night. Mantica reminds students that escort is always running and they should take cont. on pg4 ; Sttideuts · Question .. · -··.· :-,·: :' :.~ .:·.,_.~- ---~ . .; ~ Clinton by Car~Jine Pame . Ne:ws.'/E4itQ.r · Pn M<>nday .. April 12~ two Uru()n ·seniors w~e given the .nniqJie ·opf10tt1lnity to voice their · vieWs tlJJ.' President .. Clin·ton's ne\Yf educational ·policies ·on pabJi~ television. Bill TaylQr a.Ild Chris Ryan were invited tu attend a private showing of tile President•s . televised .,Towil Meeting\ .that was held. in. ·w:ashhigtpn DC and btoadcast ·.to zoo other cities around tile :courtlY. Tbis . chance , to participate in Clinton's Town: M~eting was given to the.· .se11iors by their Phi Delta theta l>rother Janiie Williams .. Ne:ss,- who ~un:ently has an intemsmp at Channel6.· Taylot: and Ryoo were two Of a panel cf six who viewed Clinton's meeting' at Channel6. The panel c()nsisted of two . high scbool principals, a high school senior, ller mother and the two U'nioli setiiors. Their purpose wa~ t<> watch the Town Meetimg ..and discuss their views on Clinton's policy. They were al~() given. the oppnrtunit)' to phone Washington t.() speak to the President directly. Taylor placed such a <lall to v<>ice his opinion to Cli11ton. \1 actually got through:' Taylor recalls, \I held on for 40 minutes. I didn't , vote for the guy but I wanted to ; talk to hint ... Although Taylor never received his opportunity tG speak wit~ Clinton. he was :interviewed and appeared on · . the Channel6 news. Taylor . said that after watching Clinton's speech for a while the .gr<>up stopped listening to the President and . began discussing the new educational program among themselves. ''I did not like it [Clinton's plan] because it did not have much to do with the kids;\ Taylor stated. \Clinton's plan concentrates more on prep courses and sciences. It ma:kes subjects like history and modern languages extraneous because they are not immediately useful skills in the job market.\ -Taylor said this in response to Clinton's idea of getting students ready to work in .the job market immediately after high school. Taylor seemed nervous that this would make a college education obsolete alfd thus stunt the American ~earn of furthering oneself through education. . · \I think America is settling · for mediocrity in education. That might help the economy now, but will hurt us in the long run,\ reflected Taylor.

Apri122, 1993, page 2 Environment Update Union Acts to Stop Env,ironm,ental Decay by Eric Habib Contributing Writer Today, ~pril22. 199~ is &n:tb.Day. The first Earth Day W$ celebrated m 1970 and !t has s1nce been a tradition to celebrate ~ually with concerts, parti!s and demonstratio~s. This year it •s .~Y to see that our planet tS cbaDenged with an en~ironmental cnsts. - ~e are faced -~ith serious threats $UCh as global warming, troptc~ defore,statio~, o~one depletion, nuclear industry,· toxic dumpmg, spectes extinction~ and a population eJq>losion. People an o':er the world now lack clean air to b~atbe, food to eat, wate~ to ~nk. or access to adequate health care. The p.urpose of tM Earth Day celebration. is to educate people about such issues and· to t~ch us what we, as individuals and as a college community, can do to change the way we ~at our planet. . At our c:unpus ther~ is much we must do to promote awareness about env:u:on'!lental 1ssues. Two ex.arnpl,es of bow our ~ctioos. affect the envrronment illustrate this qpite clearly. Fir-st, . the ~verage sttJdent gen~te~ an estimated 640 pounds of soli4 waste. m a year, 5% of which 1s recycled. Also, each year Americans· toss <lut enong~ paper to builda 12 foot wall from LQs Angeles to New York C1ty. These-facts are hard ·1:.0 believe and difficult 1:(), accept as true. However, there iS reason to be optimistic. Union studen.ts have form~d an environmental society and a recycling com~ttee to. help Improve the quality of our environment. Our goal ~s to rru.se environmental awareness and to start a more effective campus-wide recycling program. The purpose of E~ Day 1993 at Union College is for us to leam about the envrronmental movement of the 1990's, and to tr~slat~ our knowledge into action. Taking your time out to read thts Mttcle shows. you are concerned about the severity of our environmental crisis. · · Ear;~·,~Y. \'~·\~ Gele'!>rated today, April 22, in the College Center . .and, at.oun(f ·campus. For more information call len PapaZian~. ih'e President of oln Environmental Society, at 386 .. 428~ .. J;Ielp convert apathy to a~tioil by SUPJX?rting ~ l?ay and our envtronment! · · A Bright Idea by Caroline Paine News Editor A.L.A.S. Fights Back~ cont. from pgl asked to work on our behalf by speaking with the U11ion Administration on how the March 19th requests are necessary for Union College to become a true ·community and a place where the concerns and Diversity March 19' 1993 Union College Board of Trustees, Administration, and Faculty Union College Schenectady, New York 12308 Dear Members of Union College: · We, the African and Latino Alliance of Students recognize the Ia~~ of community at Union College. Although w~ a~knowl~ge mm1mal steps taken by the college, those steps are disheartenmg .. They have not completely served the needs of all students. In lieu of that, we submit ,to you a Hst that represents our deepest concerns. This is not to be misconstrued as a complete list; however, these are the most :pertinent at the moment: needs of everyone are addressed : The Action Committee of 1. With hopes of improving the lines of communication! A.L.A.S would like to tllank w~ r~uest updated infonnationabout the following offices, whos¢ everyone for the .support and miSSion should be in .alignment with that of A.L.A.S. : the help received on the issue of President's Commission on Diversity, the Affirmative Action.· diversity at Union College. Office, the Minority Affairs Committee and the Minority We see ourselves as a Netwmk Coordinator. : -significant part of the struggle and realize that if Union is to · . . . 2. A ~~ti-\cu!t~ Affairs Office is needed to effectively· move forward everyone must . address t~e pohtical, soc1al, ·and spiritual demands of the entire realize their stake in this community. · · · · struggle and take an active role 1 in its implementation. The struggle is not over; in fact. it . has just begun. And because it is a never ending battle, we ask for every Union student, faculty, and administrator who believes in equity, equality, and fairness to speak to the administration and President Hull and voice your opinions on the issue of multiculturalism and Union College. The African and Latino Alliance of Students meets every Monday at . 5:00p:m; -in :Bronner· House'· (the Richmond side of North - College) in· the . .first·. flot>r · lounge. All . students are welcolme to attend. 3. Black and Latino Counselors are needed to ~cifi,c~y. address the cultural needs of students who are .of African and Latino descent, respectively. . . Thr~ug~ a cursory glance of the Union College curnculum. It IS profoundly obvious that it lacks cultural inc~usiveness. We deem the following as necessary steps to move' Uruon toward a more egalitarian curriculum: . a) An expansion of the Latin American Studies Program . to m~~rporate studies of the Caribbean {i.e. Puerto Rico. the ' Domm1can Republic, etc.). · I . b) An expansion of the Modem Languages offerings to m~lude languages of growing populations inside the U.S. (i.e; V1e~namese,. etc.) and/or that connect Union's languages· cumculum wtth new-·college-linked cultural areas (ie. Swahili, ete.)- • ~ ~ • .. ~ . .. . ~, .. ·, · ~ ~ · ·... . · . · · . ' 4 > I \ • ' ..._ ) '\ ~ \' ' ~ • • ' , I ~ ~ . . · · · · ··c) The·implementation·of a tetm ~brbaefto :tit6 cm:itineri of Africa (i.e. Kenya, Ghana, etc.) and to other Latin· American · countries (i.e. the Dominican Republic. Argentina, etc.). Every year during Earth Day people are made more aware of the environmental issues around them. They vow to conserve and help heal mother nature. Yet these good intentions often lose momentum after a short period of time. NO EXIT . @· ·Andy Singe'r d) An incorporation such that culture and literature are incorporated centrally into a Non-Western History Track in Section I of the General Education Curriculum. Union College has been aware of the many envir<lnmental concerns facing the world today and has set out to help the environment on a long term basis. For the past year, the college has been participating in the Environmental Protection Agency's \Green Light\ program. This program encourages the use of energy- efficient lighting technologies by organizations and schools. The purpose of this agenda is to diminish the amount of air pollution caused by the generation of electricity. The college is presently participating in a five year lighting survey and upgrade system of 90 percent of its lighted areas. By installing more efficient lights, less energy will have to be produced to light them. This will significantly reduce the amount of carbon dioxide, sulf11r dioxide and nitrogen oxides expelled into the environment. AJready lighting upgrades have occWTed in the College Center, Science and Engineering, Schaffer Library, the tennis courts, numerous dormitories and exterior lights. Howard Billings, the Energy Management Coordinator, told the Chronicle that last year alone the college saved the environment from 324,000 pounds of carbon dioxide, 2,262 pounds of sulfur dioxide, and 774 pounds of nitrogen oxides through this new lighting system. Also the college has: cut Its energy consumption by 270,00() kilowatts and thus avoided a cost of $23;000. Through participating in the \Green Light\ program Union hopes not only to save money '!fld the environment. It also hopes to remember Otat Earth Day should not be observed only once a year,.. but~ ew;ry day. . : ... e) The addition of a required Human Diversity Seminar to the General Education Curriculum. • t) The creation of an Africana Studies Program. If the points mentioned previously are implemented. then the problems surrounding student recruitment w()uld be alleviated. Union College cannot continue to recruit students of color with,out offering the proper support; otherwise, the students are being set up for total isolation. As we stated earlier. this list is by no means absolute. These are preliminary rneaswes toward a true Union College community. We look forward to hearing from you within the frrst week of Spring Term, to set a meeting time. Please contact Angela Rudolph at 386-4295. CC: Mr. Norton H. Reamer President Roger H. Hull Vice-President Joseph Mammola Dean Jam~s E. Underwood, Dean of Faculty Dean Dantel M. Lundquist, Dean of Admissions Professor Adrian Frazier, Chairman of the AAC A SfJECIALFY FOOD STORE A selection of foods from around the world •Freshly Prepared Entrees & Salads •Cheeses and Pates •European Style Pastries •Gourmet Cooks' Ingredients •Crusty French & Itali~ Breads ~~P,edalty Sandwiches < •• ~ • . ' . •Catering ·Orders .. Welcomed' . Mon.-Fri. 10 a.m. to: 7:00p.m. · Sat. ·g:oo a.m. to 6:oo P·rl,l· -· . : · t29:t Rugby.Rd.:·(at Parkwood.BivCf.).~ -. ··.· · ... ··.,~·..: · .. .- .cau.us at346~.asee/ . ' I I •., • ~., ~~ • ' ·~ - - e r: a 0 0 g c a c

April22, 1993, page 2 :::: Environment Update Union Acts to Stop Environmental Decay by Eric Habib Contributing Writer Today, ~pril 22, 199~ is E~th Day. The first Earth Day was celebrated m 1970 and It has smce been a tradition to celebrate ~nually with concerts, parti~s and demonstrati()ns. This year it 1s easy to see that our planet 1s challenged with an environmental crisis. - w_e are faced W:ith serious threats such as. global warming, troptc~ defon;statio~, o~one depletion, nuclear industry, toxic dumpmg, species extmction, and a population eJl})losion. People all over tbe world now lack clean air to breathe,. food to eat, water to drink, or access to adequate health care. Til~ .purpose of th~~ Earth Day celebration is to educate people about such issues and to teach us what we, as individuals and as a college community, can do to change the way we treat our planet. At our campus there is much we must do to pr.omote awareness about environmental issues. Two examples of how our actions affect the environment illustrate this quite clearly. First, the ~verage student generates an estimated 640 pou11ds of solid waste m a year, 5% of which is recycled. Also, eaoll year Americans toss out enoug~ paper to build a 12 foot wall from Los Angeles to New York Ctty. These facts are hard to believe and difficult to accept as true. However, there is reason to be optimistic. Union studen_ts have form~d an environmental society and a recycling committee to help tmprove the quality of our environment. Our goal is to raise environmental awareness and to start a more effective campus-wide recycling program. The purpose of Earth Day 1993 at Union CeUege is for us to learn about the environmental movement of tile 1990's, and to tr~slat~ our knowledge into action. Taking your time out to read this article shows you are concerned about the severity of our environmental crisis. Earth day will be celebrated today, April22, in the College Center and around campus. For more information call Jen Papazian, the President of our Environmental· Society, at 3\86 .. 4289. J:Ielp convert apathy to action by supporting Earth Day and our envrronment! A Bright Idea by Caroline Paine News Editor Every year during Earth Day people are made more aware of the environmental issues around them. They vow to conserve and help heal mother nature. Yet these good intentions often lose momentum after a short period of time. Union College has been aware of the many environmental concerns facing the world today and has set out to help the environment on a long term basis. For the past year, the college has been participating in the Environmental Protection Agency's \Green Light\ program. This program encourages the use of energy- efficient lighting technologies by organizations and schools. The purpose of this agenda is to diminish the amount of air poHution caused by the generation of electricity. The college is presently participating in a five year lighting survey and upgrade system of 90 percent of its lighted areas. By installing more efficient lights, less energy will have to be produced to light them. This will significantly reduce the amount of carbon dioxide, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides expelled into the environment. Already lighting upgrades have occurred in the College Center. Science and Engineering, Schaffer Library, the tennis courts, numerous dormitories and exterior lights. Howard Billings, the Energy Management Coordinator, told the Chronicl.e that last year alone the co·llege saved the environment from 324,000 pounds of carbon dioxide, 2,262 pounds .of sulfur dioxide, and 774 pounds of nitrogen oxides thro11gh this new lighting system. Also the college has cut its energy consumption: by 270,000 kilowatts and thus avoided a cost of $23,000. Through participating in the \Green Light\ program Union hopes not only to save money and the envimnment. It also hopes to remember that Earth Day should r~ot be observed only once a year, but every day. NEWS A Call A.LvA.S. Fights Back con t~ from pg 1 asked to work on our behalf by speaking with the Union Adminisuation on how the March 19th requests are necessary for Union College to become a true community and a place where the concerns and needs of everyone are addressed. The Action Committee of A.L.A.S would like to thank everyone for the support and help received on the issue of diversity at Union College. VVe see ourselves as a significant part of the struggle and realize that if Union is to · move forward everyone must realize their stake in this struggle and take an active role ' in its implementation. The struggle is not over; in fact, it has just begun. And because it is a never ending battle, we ask for every Union student, faculty, and administrator who believes ill equity, equality, and fairness to speak to the administration and President Hull and voice your opinions on the issue of multiculturalism and Union College. The African and Latino Alliance of Students meets every Monday at 5:00p.m; in Bronner House (the Richmond side of North College) in the first· floor lounge. All students are welcolme to attend. Qlhr flLJlnrvrbirtt.sis For Diversity March 19, 1993 Union College Board of Trustees, Admifl.istration and Faculty Union College ' Schenectady, New York 12308 Dear Members of Union College: We, the African and Latino Alliance of Students · recognize the lack of community at Union College. Although w~ • a~lmowledge minimal steps taken by tile co1lege, those steps are · disheartening. They have not completely served the needs of aH students. In lieu of ~hat. we submit to you a list that represents our deepest concerns. This is not to be misconstrued as a · complete list; however. these are the most pertinent at the moment: 1. With hopes of imp:mving tile lines of communication, w~ r~uest updated infonnation about the following offices, whose mtsswn should be in alignment with tbat of A.L.A.S. : the President's Commission on Diversity, the Affirmative Action Office, the Minority Affairs Committee and the Minority Network Coordinator. 2. A Multi-cultural Affairs Office is needed to effectively address the .political, Social, and spiritual demands of the entire community. 3. Black and Latino Counselors are needed to specifically . address the cultural needs of students who are of Mrican and Latino descent, respectively. . Thr~ug~ a cursory glance of the Union College curnculum, It IS profoundly obvious that it lacks cultural inc!usiveness. We deem the following as necessruy steps to move Uruon toward a more egalitarian curric11lum: a) An expansion of the Latin American Studies Program to incorporate studies of the Caribbean (i.e. Puerto Rico. the Dominican Republic, etc.). . b) An expansion of the MOdem Languages offerings to m~lude languages of growing populations inside the U.S. (i.e. Vtetnamese, etc.) and/or that coBnect Union's languages curriculum with new college-linked c11ltural areas (i.e. Swahili, etc.). c) The implementation of a term abrbad \to the continen of Africa (i.e. Kenya, Ghana, etc.) and to oilier Latin American countries (i.e. the Dominican Republic .. Argentina. etc.). d) An incorporation such that culture and literature are incorporated centrally into a Non-Western History Track in Section I of the General Education Curriculum. e) The addition of a required Human Diversity Seminar to the General Education Curriculum. f) The creation of an Africana Studies Program. If the points mentioned previousiy are implemented, then the problems surrounding student recr1.1i !merit would be alleviated. Union College cannot continue to rc.:ruit students of color without offering the proper support; other,, isc, the students are being set up for total isolation. As we stated earlier, this list is by no means absolute. These are preliminary measures toward a true Union College community. VVe look forward to hearing from you with.in the first week of Spring Term. to set a meeting time. Please contact Angela Rudolph at 386-4295. CC: Mr. Norton H. Reamer President Roger H. Hull Vice-President Joseph Mammola Dean James E. Underwood, Dean of Faculty Dean Daniel M. Lundquist, Dean of Admissions Professor Adrian Frazier, Chairman of the AAC A SI'ECIALJY FOOD STORE A selection of foods from around the world •Freshly Prepared Entrees & Salads •Cheeses and Pates •European Style Pastries •Gourmet Cooks' Ingredients •Crusty French & Italian Breads •Specialty Sandwiches Mon.-Fri. 10 a.m. to 7:00p.m. Sat. 9.:00 a.m. to 6:00p.m. •Catering Orders Welcomed 1291 Rugby Rd. (a1 Parkwood BlvtL} Cau· us at 346' .. 8568 ( (

I' 11 Q:tbr. Olv.nror)itnllill \ ~: . . . . . NEWS Admissions Report: Outfook on C!a~s of 1991 Courtesy of Dan Lundquist quanti•y of their JlOOls ( refme our publications; ma :we Dean ofAdmissions thereby forcing them to are trying to increase fa.<ulty 1 write these words witlh discou11t further), attit11des con~tact with student:s at eight hours remaining until we about tile value of high cost appropriate stages ofthe,cyde. ring down the regular .private e<lucation are $1taken, On campus and off, w~· ill2ve admi .SSl'on process ~::or ·.the Clas·\' · · 1 'd · • 1· intensified Our outreach e:lforts 1 ' \\ fmancua. · a1 IS 1n tumu t, of 1'997 and stage the mailing marketin 8 strategies are aimed at the s lli'P()Ft of our decision letters, set t<J becoming mOI~e hard-bitting constituencies named~ iil.lkwe: go in one week, timed f() and competitive, and a sense of we spend as much time: ~s we coincide with our peer or ill-ease amd uncertain:t;y on all can involving and nurturing overlap ( or com,petitor)· sides seerns to undetgird the those who can - and sh()uld! ..... colleges. landsca)le. aid. the Union recniitment Bucking the ~rend towarcl Guida:lioe couselors' reports, effort. erosion of applicant pools,. however,. give anecdotal Concerns about yield l.ll'e Union has had a banner year in· support to the successes Union paramount; we have to ~dlnit recruitment, so far. Parallelini is experiencing. Staff are five non-financial aid canliclates a national trend, we have hearingiJDsitive and reassuring to get one matriculant .. That increased scholarship budget to comments from high schools ratio rises closer to two·t(Hme support our recruitment and about the growing visibility of for the aided group. Pressu-es retention goals. the College. But we are to attempt to control fincnuial We celebrated-briefly hitting ~emerging. into a t()ugher aid liabilities dictate 211 the milestone of a record\high market. Our visibitity is increased number of \s~ft\ or ,fiumber of applications to increasing faster thm our low-yield offers of adtnis~i()ll Uni-on, nearly 3500. Thi:s desirabi'li:ty: our '\'market which, in turn, decreases yield surpassed the previous record &f image\ is very much a work in and quality. (And finartci.ali.lid just over 3400 which was se:t progress lind it is gratifying to staff worry that our aid y-ield four years ago when . the see the inroads we have made could drop as we compete \'itll C() ·t,le.ge made S-A·T- test\' · .... 1 . h d \sweeter deals\ and the '\want- .., agamst more estav 1s e · optional. It is worth notin~ competit&rs but ... we .must b~ based\ parental attitu(Je.) that Union's applicant pool appropriately aggressive, Imperatives to increase ![Uality has, according to a data sbarill~ c.onstalltly vigilant, and threaten yield too, for we must group we are a part of. evermore: creative in our admit ten of our very t()])-elld sustained the largest percentag-e recruitin!, planning, and students to get one. Bri~ht increase in our peer group, outreach efforts. This approach students and affluent .sttJd.~nts broadly defined, and surpassed has yielded us fine shcrt-term have a wide range of ()pti()llS most in terms of the raw results bu! we will sustain and, these days. Smart, ricll o11es number of apps. Further goood where and whenever possible, can just about write theiJ ()Wn news is that academic quality intensify ()UJ focussed efforts. ticket. To the extent tllat we indicators are up as well. We To date the splendid Becker want to increase selecti~iy\ we rate admits \A\ (high), \B of Hall staff have marshalled all need ,to admit higher-yield \C\ (low) and this year Ollr the resoi:Jl'Ces available 10 them. kids ... and they are our .fill;mcial admit 01\0UP is 60% A- and B- We have increased om direct aid group- as the :fi~11res rated :tudents as opposed. to mail outreach and co11tinuing indicate. . last year's 50%. contact; we have increased our This year, due to e]e(!ti()n- 1 am also pleased to report travel ancl are making more . year bottlenecking.at thef~enl tbat our admit rate dipped face-to-face contacts with level, financial aid proce~i:ng btlow the \all important\ SO% . students, parents, alumni, was delayed by several weeks. mark. We offered admissiorito guidance counselors, boards of This has affected all c<JUeo,ges in 1675 students, or 48% of t!Je educatiom, private .and non- Amerrca. The 0()1le1le ·3490 total. profit edusational acl'Visors, Scholarship S ervic<J has A number Of c.actors combine \\ ·· bas ffi · Is confounded our desi:l'e-- to 1• .. _. even 10reLgn em sy o 1c1a ; to cause us to be circumspe(t we have involved students on manage financial aid · .cCJntrol and cautious however; marny and off campus to a ~reater scholarsllip costs . witll· my of our competitors have l&st degree tban ever before; we are precision. These dela)'s ha:ve ground on the quality and continuillg to develop and forced us to make a decig:j\n to --==---~-----------~::___-~--'\----mail our admission ll(ltters MIL 4/12/93 4£12/93 4Cf3/93 4{13/93 Securi(¥ Report TIME REPOBT.:EP: LOCATION; lt!CIPENI: 9:00am Ftu Lot rowed yeh!ele·lblgcklng fumpater ft•30pm Sceulb Long pjntmal prablem-locse dog 12:52am D11yidagn False lire alam·Life Safe!\! 'lloJat!on Issue!) 5:54pm .McKean UJinqr gmgaa 11rt .. ·no Gamage before we know how mudt aid we have offered. (If we delared the admission notifica-tiort we would have ll>si a valuable/vital recruitmellt,e:dge: we have to be \in the swim •• with our competitors.) iiiiOOrill1 reports from FinanciaJ Aid April22, 1993, page 3 Paniccia b) Speak on · Gays in the: Military by Heather Manley Concordi~nsis- Staff ·in bis 4ischarge from the Air F<Jrce, According to Paniccia, the hearing was held to decide On Wednesday? April 28, at if he said he was gay on 8 p.m. in the College Center television. B'-e believes he was Auditorium, Tom Paniccia will dir;missed because .he was gay. · spe.ak about his own He: bas fil~d a federal lawsuit'· experience as a homosexual tn protest his dismissal as a banned from the military. The violation of his right to · u s Ai F d · · d imlivid11al protection under the 1 · • . • . r • orce . tsmtsse fifth amendment. Paniccia I Paniccia after be a~~noliJlced on mational television tbat he was believes he was \punished for · a homosexual. Pan1cda will beLng honest.\ discuss his dismissal and it-s Paniccia came forth with the ·.-epercussions, as welt as the tr11th about his sexual future of gays in the military. prefere11ce because \living the Paniccia, a native. of lie ra11 counter to everything Ticonder-oga, NY, llad 11 years (he) ha~ been taught in the · of active duty •. He received .militaxy about honor and so·eh . recog:tli>t'i-<Hl ,, . as in~egrity . .'' Paniccia is ::;\ pr~s.ently one of Pl'es~dent Jh¢ Year'' . aDd . 1 ''Ttaining Cllntorfs test cases concerning 'Srsrems Manager ~f111e Year'' the liftin~ of the ban ,on gays ·iQ; ·. ·~t· tlte _l~:«)yat··; Air Fo~;c-e's the military. · Welford ·· and ·· ·frreenb-am l?ani()cia is. one of several :.conitnonBa$es~ R~~~$o~a .· wae> :wti~l enlighten the . \::-yeteran··of Oper~ti()tl!~ :Desert . diwenity. awareness of the · ·BtolJ»;· for• wbwh_ he: won a U1l1on College c,a.mpns. · He is medal of:c mmoodation a sl>{laker from the '.'Many <.'-:Paliiccii~ ad~itte(J • •. · his · ~aces~: One. tlnien\ series . • ·~om0·$~:xuality · O,n ·· Good ~p~rtscred b.y t-he Peer ~#[.prntng , Amtri.ca · ·• and F$ildtat<Jrs, •the Student Forum . ~gbs~uentlyfaqed·a 10 ·wetk ~el.tbePresident•s.Qffice. !·~pg. · .Tlt~ b~g teSJll~d ~· </(· ~~''_: :<-- ·\' ·: -~ ;\; <' '. indicate that recent trends are continuing: more students are applying for aid, those who are eligible are receivi111:1 a little more on average, and an imcreasing number jt~st plain want more. regardless of their need. . Throughout the selection process, we have tried to balance quality and yield and S<:holarship expense. Our goal is to increase academic quality a.nd selectivity while targeting a slightly larger class. Ack:nowled'ging the frustrating reality that there are many factors beyond our control, we believe we have maximized our ()pportunities, resources and good will, while trying to minimize down-side risk. We will continue to figbt up to Freshman Orientation to put ()UI best efforts - and tlten some · into this process. Special Thanks to Security Officer lWii<tlhlil~ll IHI n n a (!) IDl From the C oncordiensis Staff ~lHlU FRIDAY, APRIL 23, 1993 A 1:10pm 4f'ftl/93 ~H:IS!!lil :IZ;SS!m !Ill§! u :ll:U•m !Ill§ l!!;! !I:URIII !!lUlU l!!:l!!l!m !1115/93 j1•42pm !lUlU a·uam !I lUlU II' U IIIII !!LUlU l!!:li!!lm HHHIU U'HDm ~LH!!U j ;!lll51111 ~ljt61!U Z:lhlll 4/Hi/93 n·1spm §l:l1lU Z'IUIIII !1:111U ~ ::~:~: !1:111U !l:lllU l!!'!!Uam 51:1!11:1 z:zggm !11:1l£U 1'11111111 !lHlU §•!§IIIII HHlU l :!lii!ID Hji£U U:3Zam !lUlU 1 :ZZIIII 4tjllU Z;otam UU£U a·uam WllU arallm ~UilU !:llilm UJILU Iaii-I m !lUlU Hl:lillll !lUlU J :311am &tUtU 2il'll811 &l.Ullii a:inlll B•lle~ El~l!! Elte !!Xll!lg!!l!lb!! diJ2b!!ta~!! liiil~l[!h !l!ID!I•Ih! m-Ild!!!! Sill! Yl!llli QQII!!ll!l W:!C!I!IIIIID•DIIm lltg!.J!I [252m l!!lli!i!t Llll bll.~. !!<!< ls!!lo!-o~; lmhnl!lll Ja;cls1en'• Garden· Pls!urbaoce ~·fl Bllllll!!lDsl ·Eit!l! !IIBt!ll·IID kll l::ll!:B ~I 111m ~gil~~· ~lOll[ ~ID!IIII!Im-WID!!I gl'f ~IIIIS!Itl C!!DIIE E!t!!II!IDY !IIIDII!il!l ·~gld!llll B1lbJ ll!!lllt Elt!l !llltm·!ESI!211:hu Yi!lll ~SIII!!D!I! ~e,E:Islog lUll Ill i IJ! Blllb! kiii!C EI!!Sidlog !.l!lDl! Ill go Dll!!cb Hgllgw Tb9ft•m QDI y Bll!!mQDd ~ ::',~·:n ~=:::': Yi!lll CPIIllll E!llilllllll IID!III!b!!ldZB!I I:Db:Y Es:hiiEIII Ell!l! I!!EIIIm Rtlll::lltm IIIII til ~111115111 ~lilllllll:m·llllnll~t:lll• f.lCI g:illlliiLII l!il.~. lllll!ldiDI-IIIIIdiDill IIIII!:RIXI!HL11Uil1111 EiiRSitll$1 ,.fi!/11!/;!J 1:511!!!1: 8tllkl!ll dEl dog Ill IIIII !I Sill L1SII ·:i•ad•ilam·ar:S~U·Di~ l!llbl Si~l Slilllll!lll iball PI III.UIIlll Ubl~ll ••'••v \'\ 'II• ada \• m·!lllnci !tl'fR E!illtll 01111111 ii!DIIIIbRtlillll iloltld x:~ad•ll•m lAIII II fil!llilllll llil:atslldl GIIIIIIIIIRI ··~ll•t lEU !:ldiiDII IIID Yll!llllllld At !Iiiii I Ill !loll•ll•m-li•IJisl• · Ut,Ub IO!illtall· tblll·lu4 IIIDIJ UIQI Jltll e:iiDI llllltllllll 2:!1. 11£1il!JIIlfl ~&Mia Lid .te badallllll·li•IJIIIIB IlLII I I! Ill l:lallli·QII'I ... iiHDIK IN THE COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM DOUG McADAM WILL SPEAK ON FREEDOM SEMINAR AND THE SHADOW OF THE BOOMERS: PROSPECTS FOR ACTIVISM SPONSORED BY: POLITICAL SCIENCE SOCIOLOGY HISTORY MINERVA DOUG McA.:IJAM OF POLITICAL PROCESS AND THE RISE OF BLACK. INSURGENCY AND FREEDOM SUMMER

NEWS Admissions Report: Outlook on Cla~s of 1997 Courtesy of Dan Lundquist quantity of their pools ( refme our publications; and we Dean o(Admissions thereby forcing them to are trying to increase faculty I write these word.s with discount further), attitudes contact with students at eight hours remaining until we about the value of high cost appropriate stages of tile cycle. ring down the regular · d •.. hak On campus and off, we have pnvate e · ucaclon are s · en, intensified our outreach efforts admission process for the Class financial aid is in tumult, of 1997 and stage the mailing marketin 2 strategies are aimed at the support of our decision letters, set to becoming more hard-hitting constituencies name() above: go in one week, timed to and competitive, and a sense of we spend as much time as we coincide with our peer or ill-ease alld uncertainty on all can involving and nurturing overlap ( or competitor) sides seems to undergird the those who can - and should! - colleges. landscape. aid the Union recruitment Bucking the trend toward Guidance couselors' reports, effort. erosion of applicant pools, however, give anecdotal Concerns about yield are Union has had a banner year in support to tbe successes Union paramount; we have to admit recruitment, so far. Paralleling is experiencing. Staff are five non-financial aid candidates a national trend, we have hearing positive and reassuring to get one matricularat. That increased scholarship budget to comments from high schools ratio rises closer to two-to-one support our recruitment and about the ,growing visibility of for the aided group. Pressures retention goals. the College. But we are to attempt to control financial We celebrated-briefly hitting emerging into a tougher aid liabilities dictate an the milestone of a record-high market. Our visibility is increased number of ~·soft\ or number of applications to increasing faster than our low-yield offers of 2dmission Union, nearly 3500. This desirab iHty: our \market which, in turn, decreases yield surpassed the previous record of image\ is 'Very much a work in and quality. (And finallcial aid J ·ust over 3400 which was set d · · tif · 1 staff worry that our Bid yield progress an · tt IS gra ymg 0 could drop as we compete with four years ago wllen the see the inroads we have made College made SAT tests · bl' h d \sweeter deals\ and th~ \want- agamst tnore esta IS e optional. It is wortll noting competitors but. .. we must be based\ parental attitude.) that Union's applicant pool appropriately aggressive, Imperatives to increase quality has, according to a data sharing constantly vigilant, and threaten yield too, for we must group we are a part of, evermore creative in our admit ten of our very top-end sustained the largest percentage recruiting, planning, and students to get one. Bright increase in our peer group, outreach efforts. This approach students and affluent students broadly defined, and surpassed has yielded us fme short-term have a wide range of options most in terms of the raw results but we will sustain and, these days. Smart, rich ones number of apps. Further good where and whenever possible, can just about write tileir own news is that academic quality · 'fy £ sed ffi rts ticket. To the extent tbat we mtenst our ocus e 0 · want to increase selectivity, we indicators are up as well. We To date •!I.e splendid Becker l.u need to admit higlter-yield rate admits \A\ (high), \B of Hall staff !lave marshalled all \C\ (low) and this year our the resources available to them. kids ... and they are ow financial admit group is 60% A- and B- We have increased our direct aid group- as the figures rated students as opposed to mail outrellch and continuing indicate. last year's 50%. contact; we have increased our This year, due t() election- I am also pleased to report travel and are making more year bottlenecking at tlte federal that our admit rate dipped face-to-face contacts with level, financial aid IJrocessing below the \all important\ 50% students, parents, alumni, was delayed by several weeks. mark. We offered admission to guidance counselors, boards of This has affected all colleges in 1675 students, or 48% of the education, private and non- America. The <:ollege 3490 total. profit ed1Jcational advisors, Scholarship Service has f ~ b' confounded our desire to A number o 1actors com me even forei$n embassy officials; to cause us to be circumspect we have involved students on manage financial aid - control and cautious however; many and off campus to a greater scholarship costs - with any of our competitors have lost degree than ever before; we are precision. These delays have oround on the quality and t' · t d 1 d forced us to make a decision to --=o:__ ___________ c_o_n_I_n_u_m-\g'--_o __ ev_e_o,._p_a_n_ mail our admissioll letters llAIL 4/1 2193 4112/93 4113193 4/13/93 Security Report TIME BEPOfUEQ: LOCATION: 9:00am Egx Lot 4·30pm Sguth Lpno 1 2:52am David son 5:54om McKean lf!ClPENT· rowed veblc!e-blgcklna t! yrnpster Animal problem-loose doa En!;J& fire olarm-Life Safety Y'l~t let !on lnued Pt1!11or grene !Ire-no damage before we know how much aid we have offered. (If we delayed the admission notification we would have I ost a valuable/vital recruitm(!nt edge: we have to be \in tile swim\ with our competitors.) Interim reports from Fina11cial Aid April22, 1993, page 3 Paniccia to Speak on Gays in the Military I by Heather Manley Concordiensis Staff On Wednesday, April 28, at 8 p.m. in the College Center Auditorium, Tom Paniccia will speak about his own ex:·perience as a homosexual ban:ned from the military. The U.S. Air Force dismissed I Paniccia after he announced on national television that he was a homosexual. Paniccia will discuss his dismissal and its reiJercussions, as well as tbe future of gays in the military. Paniccia, a native of Ticonderoga, NY, had ll years · of active duty. He received such recognition as · \Nollcommissioned Officer of the Year\ and \Training · Systems Manager of the Year\ at the Royal Air Force's Welford and Greenham Common Bases. He is also a · veteran of Operation Desert St<>Jm, for which be won a medal of commendation. P~niccia admitted his homcsexuality on Good MtJrning America and subsequently faced a 10 week hearing. The hearing resulted indicate that recent trends are continuing: more students are applying for aid, those who are eligible are receiving a little more on average, and an increasing number just plain want more, regardless of their need. Throughout the selection process, we have tried to balance quality and yield and scl:aolarship expense. Our goal is to increase academic quality and selectivity while targeting a slightly larger class. AckDowled'ging the frustrating reality that there are many factors beyond our control, we believe we have maximized our opportunities, resources and good will, while trying to minimize down-side risk. We will continue to fight up to Freshman Orientation to put our rest efforts - and tben some - into this process. ·in his discharge from the Air Force. According to Paniccia, the hearing was held to decide if he said he was gay on television. He believes 11e was dismissed because he was gay. He has filed a federal lawsuit to protest his dismissal as a violation of his right to individual protection under the fifth amendment. Paniccia believes he was \punished for being honest.\ Paniccia came forth wilh the truth about his sexual preference because \living the lie ran counter to everythiAg [he] had been taught in the military about honor and integrity.\ Paniccia is presently one of President Clinton's test cases coBceming the lifting of the ban on gays in the military. Paniccia is one of several who will enlighten the diversity awareness of the Union College campus. He is a speaker from the \Many Faces, One Union\ series sponsored by the . Peer Facilitators, the Student Forum and the President's Office. Special Thanks to Security Officer Mfi<ellil~~ll IHiun~<n>m From the Concordiensis Staff FRIDAY, APRIL 23, 1993 A l:lOp1n ~11519;1 l2·Sliam !:!alley: Eleld ~/l512i.l ll;2!!am lhttu [!!!I ~11§12i.l !I;ZI!Rm ~~!II Qgll!!gt! ~1lW!:l l!l'HII!III E!i!lillt l.g! 411519:1 11•42pm Jackspn's Ggrdeo :1:1lW!3 :t·33um Blllt:m 20!1 !:1Ul~:l l!;:1!1am Qgii!ISI!I \~ Dl!i:[ !1HlU l!!;li!!am C!O!II!I!UI \aulae i1H£U U;Hpm B!!lb!!ls!III!U !1H£1U l:!l!!l!m ~!Ill {l!!ll!lga !!:11§1!!3 Z;Upm B!lbtk!!!I!H §JHlU 10::15pm Qutch Hgllow !llZ£!!:1 Z;!lliam BUIIIPD!i L21 !illll!U ~ ::i:;: =~~~~~~~ !1:1l!U !1lWU l!l·!l!lam ~1111 C!!lleg~t !l:tll!U z·uam Esh!U[Ih !llZliU li'lilRm !isudb C!lllasaa !llWU li'!tli 11m Qfl ~amaua !11ll!U Z;!Hgm ~!!lUll! I [5182!! !1:ll!llU 12;2ZIID !11512111 !li!!II!D!!I !ll!llU l'2Z!!m Qfl j<lllll!!.lll 4£1119 3 :z;o&om Baller Hall HUlia 3;Uam I!RIIIl l:ha1111 ~lUlU a:uam IIRUib ~!!IIUI ~lllllll:i !I;IUlam l•alstE 1[11 !tllllU li!ll!lm AdJDID I !II ~ll &LU U;l!flam fillllb l:liiiiSII ~ ll Dl U J:UIIIID ID§:!L ., .. :IUIIlU a·Uiam 6droiD LAI II HlllU 2'UIIID U•ll• !bl Elte §l!111lgUIJb!![ dl!!cbo[g!:d yg []tl al h m-~ I D2S!!!! II!Ml, •s:~I!!!:D!·D!! lol!!tla~ Disturbance call Elt!! III!Um·!,ID ko 2WD !:i1Uit2 l!.l mhll!lm·wlm:l !!lft et!:I!Dittllt 1!aml!!l!l a~:;lsi!:DI Elt!! th!tlll-~g21slog eu:klog llt!!blam Eluding ~~~odlti!!D Tbeft-mauy e:~::~~· eu1all!l!l UDIUlb!UIZ!Id !IDltl! Elt!ll •xalam IU!!biiiiii lln oshllam-wlosi!!WI ,.,.~. IRGI!h!Ol·IIUsiiDil lll!!:!IIX1!5HDhi[I!UI [lliUI[iiU~ Bl!i!l!.lnt slt!VID!l lliii!IIIIIIIII-11 C!!l! a !I IIDbl Ib!!lt gf llll!.h!DI nbl!11t Vi nsjq!lam-wlndows U uaulb!UI&a!l llDIUll mdall11m a:la~nsltrlx C!!D 1111111 f!I[IIIDII IIIlO UIUIUilld ~ !Ddlillm•XIblllll Illllll-1115151 llama 1!.111111 lllllllltld liD lftiiiiJ!IIllll ll:1odallam-xablllll Ill•IH~D'I aod mao•:w: IN THE COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM DOUG McADAM WILL SPEAK ON FREEDOM SEMINAR AND THE SHADOW OF THE BOOMERS: PROSPECTS FOR ACTIVISM SPONSORED BY: POLITICAL SCIENCE SOCIOLOGY HISTORY MINERVA DOUG M«=ADAM OF POLITICAL PROCESS AND THE RISE OF BLACK INSURGENCY AND FREEDOM SUMMER

April22, 1993,page4 NEWS Professor of the Week: Byron Nichols By Heather Manley Concordie11sis Staff Twenty-five years ~go ByPl. Nichols was granted his fir:-.i. professorship of his career at Union College. Now, after a quarter of a ,deca.de, be retains his position as ;professor with the added pFestige of Political Science Department chairman. Nichols plays an active role as a facult)' member. He is currently fu1fillin.g a three year tenn as department chairman, which began im September 1992. This position calls for more paperwork and administrative details than a regular facu1ty j)<)Sition. This added resp-onsil>ility releases him from te:acbing two classes out of the six classes required of Union professors. Although llappy to be taking his share of responsibility within the Political Science department~ Nichols says his \heart is in th.e classroom.\ In addition, Nichols also co- chairs the Bicentennial Steering Committee in preparation for Union's 200th anniversary in 1995. The position of Executive Secretary to the Steering Committee adds to Nichol's many administrative responsibilities. The obligations of this position also count as a class release. Therefore, Nichols is currently teaching three courses this year. Nichols grew up in a small town in Oregon, where his decision to study Spanish in high school sparked an interest in Latin American. Studies tllat continues today. He spent his senior year of high school in Norway which focused his interest towards international relations. He completed his undergraduate work at Occidental College in Los Angeles, California, and obtained a Ph.D in International Affairs at Johns Hopkins University. In 1966, Nichols married his college sweetheart. They now have a 14 year old son. At the age of twenty-five he began working at Union. Nichols is the Director of Latin American Studies and he established the Term Abroad program in Mexico. He would f11rther like to see Union have a Term Abroad program in Ecuador or PtJerto Rico that would study environmental problems. Nichols has accompanied Union students to Latin American four times and to China once. He mentioned that the revolutions in these Third World nations may serve as future researcb topics. Although Nichols places a greater emphasis on teaching, he is finishing his first book, The Roman CathOlic Churcl! and Political Stability in Lati11 America. He 11otes that within his department there is a balance of research and teaching. This allows professors, suc.h as himself, to concentrate on the classroom, while others are able to broaden their horizons through research. Despite Nichols' administrative commitments, he dedicates much time to his students. Advisees, students from class and prospective students constantly float in and out of his office. Professor Nichols personifies the effective, yet hectic life of a dedicated college professor. Security Cracks Down on Parking cont. from pgl advantage of this service. Mantica and crnnpus security ask that both siLJdents, faculty and staff contribute to the community in the hopes of relieving Union of this parking problem. Stndents who receive bills in their mailboxes for parking violati()ns have two options. Any parking ticket can be appealed within seven days of its issue and then it must be appealed before the student traffic committee. The other alternative is to discuss your parking tickets with Mantica himself, whereby you may discuss to mitigate your circumstances. Mantica says that there is a requirement for the student to pay at least part of the money assessed with t11e premise that he/she will adhere to future parking regulations. However, if the student receives more than three additional tickets, then he/slle must pay tile rest of the original bill. TOTO: WE'RE NOT IN KANSAS ANYMORE: A dynamic, multi-media presentation on how the Wizard of Oz, magic, ,cars, puppets and Tracy Chapman help us to understand diversity. Maura Cullen Wednesday, April 21 CC Auditorium 8pm Starting with a lively presentation on difference, Maura then l;lses an enga_ging approach to address eight contemporary 'isms,' including the issues of race, gender, sexual orientation, religion, class, age, size, and disabilities. The final segment demonstrates how to develop the skHls to gain a voice, become an aUy, and confront these 'isms' as we move towards appreciating diversity. (This is a return visit for Maura, who has given her dynamic presentations frequently at cam- puses and conferences.) Many Faces, One Union: A Series on Diversity Sponsored by The Feer Facilitators, Student Forum, The Offici! of the President, and the Career Development Center Utht ~<llonrDtbiru.si.s Byron Nichols has been a dedicate{[ Union faculty member for 25 years. If the bills are ignored all together, then they are tacked onto students' tuitions. Parking tickets are dealt with only at campus operations. The dean of students does not become involved, unless a matter of student conduct is at hand. While Mantica claims that parking is not the number one foc11s of campus security/safety, it is the most adversarial and pressing issue at this time. If sttJdents and faculty could learn to honor the parking codes on campus, then not only will parking be easier, but the war between campus security and the rest of the college will end. Benstocks to Speak Courtesy of the English Department Shari Benstock and Bernard Benstock will be at Union from April 28th through May 5th thanks to tile Lamont Professorship that every year brings to campus visiting scholars and writers. During their visit, the Benstocks will teach classes in the English Department (Shari Benstock will team-teach Brenda Wineapple's class, \Realism and Naturalism in American Literature,\ while Bernard Benstock will team-teach Edi Giunta's class on James Joyce). Bernard Benstock will give a lecture, \Middle Class Values in .IDysses--and the Value of the Middle Class,\ on Thursday, April 29, at 8:00 p.m. in the Humanities Lounge. Shari Benstock's lecture, \Edith Wharton and the Uses of Literary Biography,\ will take place in the Hale House Lounge, on May 4, at 8:00 p.m. A reception will follow each lecture. Both lectures are open to the campus and local community. The Benstocks will also take part in the Finnegans Wake Reading Group at Fero House on Wednesday, April 28, at 7:00p.m. Internationally recognized scholars, the Benstocks are Professors of English at the University of Miami in Coral Gables, Florida, where Shari Benstock also directs the Women's Studies Program and Bernard Benstock is editor of the James Joyce Literary S ugplement. Shari Benstock is the author and editor of many books and articles on feminist theory (Textualizing the Feminine: Essays on the Limits of Genre, Women of. the Left Bank: Paris 1900- 1940. The Private Self: Theory and Practice in Women's Autobiographical Writings, Feminist Issues in Literary Scholarship) and James Joyce and Modernism (Whq's He When He's At Home, co-authored with Bernard Benstock). She is currently working on a biography of the American writer, Edith Wharton. Bernard Benstock is among ·the top Joycean scholars in · the world. He has written and edited several books and articles on James Joyce (Narrative Con/Texts in Dubliners, Narrative Conffexts in Ulysses, James Joyce, Joyce-again's Wake: An Analysis of Finnegans Wake, The Seventh. of Jgyce, Critical Essays on Joyce's Ulysses, James Joyce: The Augmented Ninth), Sean O'Casey. and detective fiction. For information about the Benstocks' visit, contact Edi Giunta, English Department (370-6041). so N1 Stl an fo en e11 lil th ef e\ e1 S] Cl t< II tl n E c 1

Wtr (llourvr) itttsis ~NEWS April 22, 1993, page 5 Campus Trends Across the USA Even greater testimony to the \'Environmental justice' is toward sustainable, safe, non- nature and the opinions that Students Ta:k.ing Action to- Save Environment For Bess Ising, then a sophmore at the University of North Carolina, the publicity surrounding Earth Day's 20th • anniversary was the inspiration for her first attempt at environmental organizing. The energy of Ising and students like her made Earth Day 1990 the greatest student organizing effort in the history of the event. Now, three years later, the experience gained by ~hese students is apparent in the sophistication and pervasiveness of Earth Day events, and of the student environmental movement in general. \Today students environmentalism is not just sporadic events across the country; now we are working together in a synchronized manner,\ said Ising, currently the national office representative of the Students Environmental Action Coalition (SEAC). SEAC is comprised of over 2,000 separate groups from high schools and colleges across the country. Almost all of these groups- from the University of New Hampshire's EarthFest to James Madison University's Earth Week-have celebrations and awareness campaigns scheduled on and around April 22. The influx of student participation over the last three years combined with the momentum of the new administration in the White House has piqued the optimism of many of the student organizers. \Now we have a Vice President who wrote a book about his concern (for the environment), and it was actually intelligent,\ said Brian Hart, EarthFest coordinator at the University of New Hampshire. For many students, Earth Day is more than a brief display of concern .for the environment; the occasion represents the culmination of a full year of environmental activism. \We're trying to create a new phase where people get involved over the long run and we want to encourage them along the way,\ said Michael Cohen a SEAC member at Stanford. Student-organized events now often extend beyond a single campus, possessing a national or regional focus. A demonstration in March against the Champion Paper Mill's polluting of the Pigeon River in North Carolina drew over 450 students representing 10 different states. SEAC is also sponsoring a national speaker's tour. The naming of SEAC as one of the 14 most effective environmental groups in the country· in a recent article in Self Magazine attests to the effectiveness of student environmental organizers. dedication of these students is more than an expression, it P o 11 uti n ~ form s o f had popularly prevailed for may the fact that SEAC has really is a movement and a trnnsportati~n. . centuries about how society approximately 1/lOOth the lot .of people who have been The. ~tcket A~enca should treat it,\ Gilbei1 wrote budget :of other big names on involved {in the on:going c~mpatgn ~~ .un<ler~ay m 2~ recently. the list such as the Sierra Club fight] have had an d1fferent ctues durmg Apnl. Hayes began his career as an and the National Wildlife opportunity to experience Student activists will dis~bute environmentalist with little Federation. that,\ said Larry Haggard, a 50,000 postcards to President more than the basic energy and For more information about member of the Noxubee Clinton, urging the legislature idealism of youth. Earth Day events at particular County Committee, an to ~a.ise the average auto fuel \(I wanted) to become schools contact the SEAC Indian a U n i v e r sit y efficiency standard from 27 to engaged in the system and try headquarters in North Carolina organization formed to 45 miles-per-gallon. Other to change society for the better. at (919) 967-4600. · monitor the IUF's handling of resembling parking tickets will I wanted to make a mark,\ he Incinerator Opposed by Indiana Students \Environmental justice\ will be the focus of Indiana University's Earth Day celebration, and the theme is particularly relevant to student environmental activists who are embroiled in a battle with Indiana University Foundation( IUF). The controversy involves the fate of a 6,000-acre plot of land owned by the IUF in Noxubee County, Mississippi. IUF officials intend to sell the land to the highest bidder, Federated Technologies, Inc. (FTI}. Student activists are concerned because FTI has announced its intention to use the land to construct a hazardous waste incinerator. Adding to the dispute, IUF officials have made a series of unexplained and contradictory maneuvers which students claim to be a subterfuge. In February 1993, the ruF- under intense student pressure-decided not to renew Fils option to purchase the land past March 31. On AJlril 12, the IUF issued a statement announcing their intention to pursue alternative bayers. The next day student activists learned they were misled by IUF officials, who had in fact entered into a contract with Thomas Merrill, a farmer from Salinas, California, on March 17. Shortly thereafter, according to the Mississippi DeprummentofEnvironmenun Quality, Merrill extended a buyer's option to FTI. On April 6, under continued pressure, the IUF agreed to meet with student leaders. During the meeting, IUF representatives promised that a chronology listing all dealings regarding the sale of tile land would be made public _ by April 9. When April 9 arrived, however, the IUF announced they had decided to conduct an in-house investigation and would not make the results public until May 3. Students call it no coincidence that May 3 is the first day of finals week. tllerefore hampering their ability to react. While the Students continue to Jlress the IUF for answers, some of their energy is being redirected toward Earth Day activities which will address the inherent hazards of incineration and the problem of environmental racism in general. theland. be left on the windshields of said during the 1990 Noxubee County, the gas guzzl~rs nation~ide. celebration. , proposed sight for the Camprugn ~rgamzers hope to The mark make by Hayes incinerator is 70% African change attitudes toward and other students has reached American; its unemployment transportation by ed~cating the far beyond April 22, 1970. In rate is 14%, and 42% of the pubhc about th~ envrronmental founding the grassroots citizens have less than a ninth and economic costs of lobbying group Environmental grade education. National tr.ansp?~tation, and by Action Hayes ~ade studies by the General stigmatizmg gas guz~lers. environmental protectiOn a Accounting Office and the Earth Day orgamzers can I' . 1 . A d . · k f · 1 po 1t1ca Issue. n smce United Church of Christ receive pac ets o matena s to 1970 E h D h b d . t ·b t d d · h · art ay as grown reveal an overwhelmingly e . IS n u e · unng t e r 1 · 1 h' h 1 b . . . rom na 1ona event w IC disproportionate number of ce e ratiOn, Includmg · 1 d 20 ·11· 1 . . . mvo ve . mt ton peop e to hazardous waste facilities brochures, ci.tations, fact a l.d .d da f d . d 1 d wor WI e y o e . ucatlon located in poverty-stricken sheets, ~stcar s, P e ge cards which in 1990 reached an communities of color and articles. For more e t. t 100 '11. I . . . . . s 1ma e m1 Ion peop e m \When you look at mformauon, call 1(800)635- 134 countries. environmental issues, you 0708. need to look at the people who are being affected, and it's usually people of color, people of lower income and the working class,\ said IU student leader Sarah Hodgdon. \Lower income communities don't have the resources to fight these big-time companies, and this is something most environmentalists don't reflect on when they address environmental policy.\ Speakers at the Earth Day event will include a representative for Native Americans who will address the disproportionate amount of nuclear waste dumped on and around Native American land, and an official from the Midwest Center for Labor Research who will discuss the exploitation of workers forced to handle hazardous chemicals in the workplace. Campaign to Ticket Gas Guzzlers Underway In conjunction with Earth Day, the Greenhouse Crisis Foundation is laanching a student-based campaign calling for higher automobile fuel efficiency standards and a national shift in priorities Earth Day Founded by Harvard Student Students questioning their ability to make a difference on an individual basis need look no further than the example set by Denis Hayes 23 years ago. Then a 25-year-old law student at Harvard University, Hayes heard about Wisconsin Senator Gaylord Nelson's idea for a day of workshops focusing on the environment. Over the course of four months, Hayes turned that idea into the reality of the first Earth Day --a day of lectures, workshop$ and rallies which most people now .point to as the defining moment of the modern etlvironrnental movement. Also, the Environmental Protection Agency is considered by many to have been created as a result of the first Earth Day celebration. The efforts of Hayes and others have resulted in what veteran e11vironmental journalist B il Gilbert has called a \psychic change\ in public opinion regarding the environment. \In a few decades they have radically altered the image of .. What•s In Our Trash? 6.5% food 8% plastics- ·a Multicultural Dinner Culinary Expose at Union On Tuesday May 4, 1993 at the Old Chapel. the Career Development Center, in conjunction with the Series on Diversity, will be sponsoring a Multicultural Dinner. Our guest speaker for the evening will be Robert Holland '62. He will address the audience about his experiences at Union and his career which followed. Mr. Holland is a Management Consultant/Entrepreneur. Complementing his address, Dining Services will provide a menu of traditional Caribbean foods. Reservations to this event are required. Students on the meal plan must get their cards punched at the check-in stations. (West, Upper-Class, or Dutch Hollow) All other members of the Union community should contact the Career Development Center to make reservations no later than April30. Recycle!! Recycle!! 37.5% paper __/ 8.5% metals--' 17.9°/o yard waste Source: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency National student News Service

Apiil22, 1993, page 6 NEWS ANALYSIS mltr illJlntJlr b irnais Land of the Free, Home of the Br~ve by Veronica Rogers were scared of him. so their think that they came to that descriptions? With the compound, there were also News Analysis Editor actions were in self defense. decision just to prevent further powerful influence he had over ones who became distra11ght Mistake number two. riots. If they were found not his followers he wasn't only with the prospect of kiUing The words \land of the free, horne of the brave\ together create the climatic ending of our National Anthem. The ending of ,the anthem is where fans at sporting events scream for both the love of sports and an undying patriotism inspired by the words of the \Star Spangled Banner.\ Recent news events have been proving how hard it is to interpret the words \land of the free, home of the brave\ by showing how warped and misguided people's conceptions of justice, courage, and freedom can be. Example one: To create an equilibrium within a large population is a hard task. The government, like everyone else, makes mistakes, and then pays for them. As the theory goes, every experience is supposed to be a learning experience. It took the justice system two years to stabilize the mess it made out of the Rodney King beating. With the acquittal of the four officers a year ago this month the nation faced the outpouring of anger Lhat ravaged L.A. and killed over 50 people. With dear evidence of the beating the officers were still acquitted by the state justice system of California. Mistake number one. The oTficers said it wasn't racial. They thought King was on drugs and they The beating was on video guilty, there would most likely selfish, he was cruel. themselves. but Koresh tape and the court seemed to be have been more destruction, For those of you who don't wouldn't let them out. Koresh playing dumb as if there was but possibly on a greater scale. know David Koresh was., he was not valiant, but cowardly. lack of substantial evidence. By There needed to be a safe was the cult leader who with All of the 25 children who died doing this they opened the door justified solution. Two officers over 80 of his followers in the fire did not deserve to for strong opposition, which were convicted of inflicting the perished on Monday 4/19 in have their life cut off by a man came in the form of protests most beatings, and it was what FBI officials are callin.g a who wanted to end their lives and riots in South Central L.A. determined that Rodney King's mass suicide. The fire that because he swore he was the Innocent victims were paying civil rights were violated. The engulfed their compound in son of god~ and that he thought for mistake number one. I don't two other officers were Waco Texas ended the 51 day the end of the world was condone the violence that was acquitted because of their lesser siege that had FBI agents coming. inflicted upon all the victims involvemenL struggling for ways to force the For many people thinking last April, but people certainly Today people in L.A. are armed members out of the about Koresh's actions can't be surprised. celebrating, not only because compound. infuriates them. His . If .the officers were beatin? ~there was some justice done for Koresh had religious beliefs impenetrable insanity leaves us ham m self defense why wer~n t Rodney King, but because now that exceeded acceptability, he wondering and questioning the the 15 or so officers in the they are breathing a sigh of was a fanatic who was human psyche. Koresh was background (not in the video) relief. The dark haze that has convinced he was a Messiah. determined to fulfill his role as helping them out? For them to covered L.A. (besides the He believed the end of the instigatoroftheapocalypseand say they were scared of him, smog) since last April's riots world was coming, or the no careful reasoning was g()ing when there was at least four on apocalypse as described by the to convince him otherwise. It one (not counting officers has been broken. Now it's up book of Revelation from the is frustrating to hear how Sllch observing), and that it wasn't to the government and the Bible. He convinced all of his a warped sense of reality led to racial is almost funny. Maybe people/officers involved to followers that they were going the loss of so many people. it wasn't purely racial, bllt their remember this \learning to die as it had been So my sympathy goes out to p~tr~nizin~ explanations are experience\ and hope that it prophesied. A few weeks back the brainwashed victims of the sull msultmg. will guide them so an incident Koresh had told FBI officials fire. Were they brave because After the riots in L.A .. the similar to the violation of that they would carry out a they stuck together while tlley government got caught m a King's freedom will never mass suicide because Koresh burned? Is that what defines self imposed \catch 22\ (my happen again, besides aren't believed thathisdeath or more courage? The words \home of f 't h f us we, as the song states, the ' b , d od avon e P rase or · · \land of the free\? so their deaths would cause the rave oes not pr nee, at politics). With a subs~quent \J~dgement Day\ described least in my mind, images of ~~p~al a~d re_cent hearmgs to Example two: To be Brave within the Revelation (check mass groups of people killing fix their mistake, a federal (as defined by American out the movie \The Seventh themselves because someone jury got stuck in the position Heritage Dictionary): convinced them it was what \P · d' pi · Sign\ for quick insight int() of having to be obiective and ossessmg or IS aymg they had to do. Maybe there J 1· \ \Mak\ what the Revelation fair while knowing full well courage, va Iant ; mg a should be a little asterisk at the events leading up to this trial, fine display; splendid\· prophesies). end of the anthem that is S · t'- b Officials speculated that and of possible consequences ynonymous WI u rave; accompant'ed· by a 4\oo. \ fi 1 · 'd while Koresh did have the 1 ' ._., following their verdict. courageous, ear ess, mtrept • stating \all interpretations lfthejury found the officers bold, daring,etc.\. Does David support of many of his included\. Koresh f .t f th followers that occupied fue guilty many people would 1 any o ose · . Spring Actions of Hope BREAKI.NG FREE FROM COMMUNITY WORSHIP SERVICE Thursday, AprU 29 7:30 pm Memorial Chapel Union College Campus Keynote Address: Dr. James H. Evans, Jr., Ph.D. The Capital District joins with communities around the nation as we mark one year since the Rodney King verdict and the L.A. rebellion. We will gather in support of the National Summit of Gang Leaders occurring April 29- May 2 as they seek ways of becoming a positive force in their cities. Together we will Reflect, Respond, and Recommit ourselves to building a society free from racism. _ Sojourners, Kairos USA, Pax Christi USA, Bread for the World, The National Council of Churches, Clergy and Laity Concerned, Response: Pres. of Colgate Rochester Divinity School Chairperson of the Martin Luther King, Jr. Commission of Greater Rochester Author of several books on African American spirituality, theology. and literature. Joseph Allen President of Schenectady NAACP Fellowship of Reconciliation, Evangelicals for Social Action Baptist Peace Fellowship of North America, and Church Women United join together in - Local Sponsors: Committee to Improve Race Relations,. NAACP. Schenectady Inner City Ministry, Campus Protestant Ministry - Union College, Fellowship of Reconciliation, Capital District Youth for Christ ]993-1994 Full Year or By ·Term 7 BEDROOM HOUSE Large bedrooms, 2 Modern. bathrooms, Modern K~tchen, All appliances included, Large deck, Closets galore!! \A -21 . year -student tradition\ 370-5498 leave message ( 3&4 bedroom apartments also- available: · • ALASKA .• , SUMMER J.OBS < ,• ;··. ,· -.' .• ~=~N~~!&m m c:;umnie3 ar $4,0110-+:/month on fill1lng '! boats. Freo Transportation! Raam & i Board! No experieuce Decasaty• We or Female. For employment prof!. Qll: _ .~ 1200 545-41$5 ext. A5188 .- · Attention Seniors 51 Days until Graduation I Get your hands - -

Qrhr (!1nnrvrb irnst.s ~Y Craig Greeuberg World News Editor WACO, Texas -- Within hours of the FBI's move ·to pllnch holes !!!_ the walls of David K()resh's compound, the buildings were ablaze. Tear gas had been sprayed tllrough the holes in an effort to make the environment inside the compound uninhabitable. FBI officials said that the gas decision was .a tactic planned to increase the pressure on David Koresh after a S 1 day :standoff. The FBI claimed that the tear gas was not flammable, and that the fire was caused by cult members who poured fuel around the perimeter of the compound and lit matches. The inferno claimed the lives of more than 80 of David Koresh's followers, including at least 17 children. Bob Ricks, a senior FBI ~gent, said, \David Koresh, we believe, gave the order to commit suicide and they all willingly followed.\ Only nine people were rescued from the compound. One of these survivors was a woman who tried to reenter the blaze and was restrained by federal agents. Several bodies were found in a bus buried beneath the compound. These bodies are believed to be casualties of the initial confrontation on February 28. Only 2 or 3 other bodies have been found. The FB1 had hoped that the WORLD NEWS World News Update women would grab their children and flee the coniJlOund. \That did not occur anal they bunkered down the childiren an.d allowed them to go UJl' ill flames with them,\ Ricks said. Reports from some of tile survivors indicated th:at tile children may have been imjected with some kind of poi:so11 to ease their pain. Four of the nine Stirvivors were taken to hospitals. while the other five were take'n to a local jaiL UNITED NATIONS --The Security Council votte-d to impose stiff new ec01n ornic sanctions against Yugo~lavia on April 26 11nless the Serbs sign the international peace plan for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Only Rus:sia and China abstained, as the other . 13 members :voted in favor of significantly tightening the existing trade blockade. 1'he current blockade policy was implemented last Ma~ a.s a response to the \e:tluic cleansing'' of Bosn ia by Serbian nationalist forces. If the Serbs do not sig11 an internationally mediated peace plan for Bosnia by A}Dril 2-6, all ships will be bannetd fro rn entering Yugoslavia's territorial waters. In .aoclition, no other nations will be able to ship goods across Yugoslavia's territory, and all Ymg·oslav planes, ships trucks, anal cargo containers outside the country will be confiscated. Barges documents. He warned Hanoi will be restricted from traveling officials that the Russian along the Danube through translation of a 1972 Yugoslavia unless authorized Vietnamese document appeared and monitored by tl-je United to he authentic~ and had Nations. All Yugoslav foreign \created very serious questions\ bank accounts and other about the fate of missing financial assets of Yugoslav Americans. ,institutions will be frozen Le Mai, Vietnam's Deputy abroad Foreign Minister, said that the The trade boycott will Russian document was include Serbian-held sections of \fabricated completely, based Bosnia and Croatia. Bosnian on nothing.\ He suggested Serb leader, Radovan Karadzic, that the Russian document was reacted angrily to the United created to derail the process of Nations' vote, threatening to normalization of relations pun out of the peace between the United States and negotiations. Vietnam. The Clinton The proposed peace plan Administration said that it will calls for the creation of lO not lift the embargo until semiautonomous provinces questions are answered about populated by different ethnic the fate of more than 2,00() groups. Americans still listed as President Clinton and Prime missing from the Vietnam Minister John Major of Britain War. support the tougher trade The Vietnamese government sanctions on Yugoslavia and quoted a census report from have discussed their other 1972 which listed the number options in the effort to stop the of American prisoners at 386, fighting in Bosnia- the number claimed for years. Herzegovina. However. when asked why this HAN01, Vietnam Vietnamese officials provided United States investigators documents which they claim prove the fraudulence of a report found in Russian which suggested that hundreds of American prisoners of war were never released. President Clinton • s envoy to Vietnam, John W. Vessey Jr., said that it was too early to assess the Vietnamese census document had not been released sooner, tile response was, \ ... we just found it this week.\ by Monica Webster Contributing Writer MOSCOW -- April 25 decides the fate of the Russian government as we n()w know it Elections are being held f()r President in the independent state of Russia and the people Aprll22, 1993, page 7 are showing little enthusiasm. On April. lS Boris Yeltsin visited his home town of Yekaterinburg to find the people unsupportive and apathetic towards the elections. Only small group of 6 Yehsin volunteers distributed leaflets and spoke with a bauery-powered megaphone in an effort to gain vote.rs. After the batteries ran out the volunteers were gone. Nevertheless many still claim they support Yeltsin but lack the inspiration. Yeltsin supporters also believe the Communists have not let the apathy effect their strategy. Factory owners have refused to set up polling stations and the local politicians have kept silent. Critics of Yeltsin are contesting the hardship of the economic reorganizalion will be more than the people can bear. A quarter of the people in the province still work in the military induslry. Contracts in the military industry are significantly below former levels. Consequently many companies must resort to unpaid leave for a number of workers. Only recently have joint ventures and diversification been attempted to absorb the losses. There is also a growing concern for organized crime, one of the few industries still bringing in a -profit. World News Editorial World News Letters Craig Greenberg World News Editor I can think of no single embarrassment to the United States and its citizens more significant than America's current foreign policy decisions concerning the Bosnia conflict. After growing up hearing \we m11st never allow it to bappen again.\ I am extremely disappointed in my government. After watching the Bosnia conflict escalate for more than a year. the United States has done nothing but talk and impose economic sancticns on the government of :Serbia. S11ch economic 3anctions accomplish little, as the· rest of the world learned from the Persian Gulf conflict. Despite numerous reports of \ethnic cleansing,\ mass murders, and brutal rapes. the Clinton Administration has failed to take ally decisive action. I am greatly troubled by the thought that President Clinton is not willing to commit U.S. ground forces because he is concerned about his future popularity. Although some may feel that it is not our responsibility to be the policeman of the world, I believe that we are the only nation capable of discouraging acts of violence and thuggery. If we use this opportunity to set an example, that is. show the world what happems. to a nation which invadees its neighbor, we may not bave to worry about this kimd of situation in the near fulwe. I am merely suggesting that we be willing to contribute U.S. soldiers as part of a multi- national force. I realLze that one of Bill Clinton's main concerns is for the salety of American soldiers, but that is their job. I am not suggesting f!il.at we · · should get involved i11 ever;y territorial dispute_ aro11ILd ,the globe, but I believe tbat we have a moral obligation to end the killing in Be>sllia- Herzegovina. There is e\Jidence that the Serbian forces, lllave set up concentration camps for the purpose of killing B os11ian Muslims. In additiO<n to various atrocities witllill these camps, Serbian soldiers llave been reported to h.ave committed mass murders and rapes upon entering W11slim populated townships. There is still the chrunc.e that Serbia will agree to a poeaceftd resolution, but I doufbt that they will be willing to Jive up territories which the~ !lave already conquered. Theiref()Je, I contend that we mrust be willing to accept the }D()ssible loss of American lives :to ensure that another \luge- scale\ holocaust neve;r takes place. While the western world sheds tears over the dirty war raging in what used to be Yugoslavia, an enormous religious crisis in l11dia has gone largely unnoticed. Like Yugoslavia. India is a country tom by ancient tensions which have the potential to explode into a total, all out civil war. Today, India is a crowded and impoverished country composed of over 700 million Hindus and a bulging minority of more than 100 million Muslims. Before the British conquest of than three centuries ago, the Hindu majority in the Indian Subcontinent endured . over six hundred years of Islamic rule. Since achieving independence in 1947, India's secular government has struggled to eliminate the Hindu majority's general resentment of a strong Islamic presence in the country. Today. in the midst ()f economic chaos and widespread misery. the Indian government is losing the battle against Hindu extremists who are determined to liquidate the Islamic minority. It is odd that the United States seems to care so little for the fate of the world's largest democracy. While much of Latin America. Africa, and Asia has fallen under Communist or dictatorial influence since the end of World War II (China. Iraq, Uganda, and Cuba, just to name a few), India has somehow managed to maintain a democratically elected representative government for forty-five years. at now the government is in need of considerable help. Religious tensions reached a boiling point last December when Hindu nationalists in the north razed an Islamic mosque built in the 16th century. Since then, Hindu-Muslim riots throughout the country have killed over 1,000 people, and the government appears helpless. A civil war in I11dia does not seem so implausible anymore, and such a war would be catastrophic. An Indian civil war would involve one-sixth of the world's people, and the carnage would be unbelievable, perhaps exceeding the 55 million casualties of World War 11. The problems in India are so vast, and many wonder if any outside assistance would be helpful. My belief is that economic assistance by the western world on a large scale would be helpful in reducing the influence of the Hindu extremists in India. Extremism of any kind flourishes when the economy is bad and the people are looking for a radical solution to their problems. Three WRITE FOR WORLD NEWS centuries of British colonialism and ill-advised economic policies since 1947 have done a great deal of damage to India. but all is not lost. If the countries of the western world realize how important India, like Russia, is to the world's economy and stability, then an impending disaster could be averted. by Anand Rao

April22, 1993, page 8 The The Nature of the Beast by Dylan J. Ratigan and Chris W. Richards For the past thirty years , Americans have dealt with the abortion issue primarily in the political forum. But like any other major social issue that is facing America today. the topic of abortion has many facets. Abortions are not cheap, and when one considers that over 35% of all the abortions that are conducted are performed on people who really cannot afford the procedure. one needs to take the time to address the economic issues surrounding abortion. Once one understands the economic forces that are involved with the abortion issue, an understanding of the ground that each of the two: major factions stands upon is essential to arriving at a legitimate evaluation of the abortion issue. Each abortion costs 200 to 1000 dollars if its performed within the first twelve weeks of the term. This price escalates to over 2000 dollars if the abortion 18 performed beyond the first trimester. This is a factor which becomes crucial in the determining of whether a fetus is to live or die. Expecting parents are forced to deal with a moral question within the bounds of the political platform, while at Unfortunately the pro-choice platform has been distorted to represent a radical pro- abortion camp. the same time being faced with the economic pressures that accompany this situation. The rich (a.k.a, senators, bureaucratic elite) determine the moral legality through the lens of the political arena. Factions and legislators preach their ethics from the white American ground they stand on. Their platform is the ideal, and their beliefs stem from the dead religions of yesteryear. It is all too easy to preach standards from the elevated upper class, but when they filter :iown the social ladder to the middle classes and below, the morality coll8oses, and consciences weaken. Money affords people the right to create consciences, and these ideals stem from the physical surroundings that give them the time and money to care for a child. But if one can't afford to have their children pampered or meticulously cared for, then life becomes a question of money. But those creating the laws do not understand the mentality of the lower classes. They must raise quality, not quantity. Four mouths cannot be fed on a McDonald's paycheck. The fact is. that it costs some where in the neighborho()d of 200,000 dollars to raise a child to the age of eighteen. And when one considers that a large proportion of the people who have abortions can barely afford the 350 dollar procedure, it is ludicrous to attempt to force these people to come up with the 200,000 dol,lars necessary to raise these children. However, when the abortion issue is debated. little consideration is given to the economic factors that are involved. Even if a person considers themselves to be pro-choice, for a sixtem year old girl is They I pro-lifers ] are merely concerned with the morality of stopping the axe from falling, and divorcing themselves from the reality or fate of the unborn child their really a choice? In most cases the destiny of the fetus of the young woman is predetermined by our societal norms which indicate to her that the only viable option is to have the abortion. It is situations like these that serve as evidence of our society's deeply flawed belief system. The fact is, that if the pro- choicer's were really pro- choice, not only would they make it possible for the young woman to have the abortion, but some sort of system would be implemented that would make it possible for the young woman to have the child, and raise him/her in a safe and economically stable environment. The theoretical platform of the pro-choice movement is one that stems from the belief that people .should have the freedom to determine the fate of their most i11timate aspects of their lives ... the fate of their unborn childlen. Unfortunately the pro- choice platform has been distorted to represent a radical pro-abortion camp. The origins of this problem lie in the underlying economic forces. The pro-choice movement has focused the majority. of their attention upon the more economically viable of the two options. which of course is abortion. Although their efforts have been heroic. if they truly wished to stand upon the theoretical platfonn which they built twenty years ago, it is absolutely necessary for them to balance the scale of opportunity. It's mandatory that they acl!ieve the state of equilibrium ip which the sixteen year old who is I!> BUSINESS Q!hr @nnrvrbirnsi.s :pregnant is provided with the same opportunity, to raise the child in an economically stable environment. In many cases it is difficult enough for the young woman to afford the abortion procedure. let alone come up with the 20(),000 necessary to raise the child. The agenda 11eeds to be adjusted in such a way that it does not only make abortion legal, but it makes it a.n affordable option. While at tbe same time providing anyone who desires to have a child. This, is the essence of a truly pro-choice viewpoint. On the other hand, the pro- life movement is just as guilty of ignoring the economic factors involved with outlawing abortion. The prom lifers stand on their \moral\ pedestal and daim abortion is murder. refusing to acknowledge tbe fact that when they do this~ they are forcing people who can barely afford to feed themselves to have cbildren. Many of these people can barley afford an abortion procedure, let alone ·Cover the pilenomenal expense of raising a child in the '90's. These economic factors are never even considered by these people who sit in their emerald palaces claiming that their beliefs are so \right\ tbat not only are they .going to live by them, but they intend to make the rest of the \free\ inhabitants of our country live by the same rules. This is the intention of the pro-life movement, to suffocate those with their ideals. They must be willing to support life, and not merely preach glib~ offhand remarks which have no backbone. They are merely concerned with the morality of stopping the axe from falling. and divorcing ,themselves from the reality or fate of the mbom ·child. It is all to easy to preach standards from the elevated upper class, but when ·they filter down the social ladder to the middle classes and below, the morality collapses, and consciences weaken That translates into a 200,000 expense that pro-lifers are deciding should be paid by people who can barley afford life's basic necessities. It seems only fair that if you arbitrarily charge someone 200,000 against their will, that you reciprocate, an~ agree to help pay for the costs. It is yet another case of balancing the scale. Until both of th.ese factions can figure out a way to balance the scale, it is only those who have no say in the problem who will lose, and lose big. But the point is to get at absolute honesty. Let's strip away all the levels. of controversy and come to what is actually being decided. Life, or the kiUing of a fetus is the topic. Everyone who puts forth an argument is biased by their status. Women argue -from the standpoint that it is their body and they have the right to choose. Legislators propose economic revelations, and the social classes argue from a monetary stand point. On and on the list goes. But is that not twis\ting and shaping the argument? Consequently distorting the question being asked? Whether I am a man or a woman. rich or poor, religious or atheist, the question still looms. Is abortion legitimate? And regardless of whether it is or not, is our couptry ready to take on the economic responsibilities that are necessary when a true choice is provided and the American people are provided wHb the resources necessary to raise a child today. BECAU&)E. MINE~ A NECE~~y EVIL ( au~P) ..;_:rHAT'S WHY MY ~~ AHEN'T TAXED! Dollars & Sense · · · by B!'l'on Elson · ' ' ' Hidden .. floo.-s,,. .. ceilings, .... per· centage disallowances'\ and other ·lllechanisrns conceal the actual ef~ feet of tax rate increases recently J>r<lposed by President Clinton, ac- cording to the New York State Society of Certified Public Account- atlts (NYSSCP A). The Society ;pointed out these hid- den charges during its testimony llefore the House ofRepresentatives • Committee on Ways and Means at a ltearing on President 'Clinton ·s · ec:onomic plan and the proposals for . deficit reduction. The Society also expressed its con- <:em about the different effects the tax rates will !lave on people living in urban areas, where the cost of living is significantly higher than other parts of the nation. men I tax credit provisions with built- in su~ets, will be outweighed by the cost and inconvenience of ad- ministrative complexity,\ said Gor- don. \'Clearly a married couple filing a joint return at the proposed 36 per- cent threshold.of$140~000has a very different standard of living in New York City, Los Angeles or The NYSSCFA has long been an Washington, as compared to opponent of a complex tax code. In Syracuse or Topeka,\ stressed addition to advocating tax NYSSCPA President-Elect Atbur I. simplification in New York State, Gordon, CPA. the Society's Director of Tax Policy While the Society supports anum- Janice Johnson, CPA, currently ber of the Clinton proposals, in his chairs the American Institute of testimony, G<Jrdon stressed that any CPAs' (AICPA) Tax Simplification measure must be enacted as simpl:y Task Force, of wllich Gordon also is as possible within the framework of a member. The Society and the achieving !\the objectives of AICPA are developing recommen- economic stimulus aod tax equity. dations on how to simplify the tax .. We are esJlecially concerned that c~e to both support an economic the benefit of certain provisions in- sttmulus and better contain com~ tended to stimulate investment and pliance costs. , economic growth, r:~,c:h as the invest- Ol993 by Klng Features SytLd.

SCIENCE & HEALTH April22, 1993, page 9 Multiple Sclerosis Everyone's Disea·se RICE Treatment for Muscular Injuries by Bruno Benzaquen Contributing Writer by Eileen Colkin Science Editor Imagine yourself on West Beach. It's Multiple Sclerosis, commonly ,kn_own . spring term, and you're ellgaging in ano- as MS, is a complicated disease. Ontb.e • mercy game of ultimate Frisbee. In the surface, it seems that it is a disease o-f 11le . · throws of competition, however, you Myelin coating -of the nerves that coafe1 . manage to twist your ankle and by the in the nervous system a high electri<:al time yon get home it has swelled to the conductivity. Myelin, acholesterol based ·-size of a football. It happens all too fat, is manufactured in. the ce11traL · often an.d, as most of us know, it can be nervous system, CNS (spinal cord and very painful. So what can you do? brain), by the oligodendritic cells,, anti in Acc-ording :to the Reebok In.temational the peripheral nervous system~ :PNS · Company, there is a simple prog:ram (peripheral nerves and ganglions} by known as the RICE Principles for Schwann cells. As the Myelin , athletic injuries and their recovery degenerates in the body it is replaced by process. scar tissue. Hence the name \m11lti-ple For treating the injury~ Rest, Ice, sclerosis,\ multiple sews. Compression, and Elevation are the key MS appears also to be an autoimrn11ne points. disorder, where Myelin is recognized as a REST: Activity should be foreign ·substance of the body and discontinued as the pain or injury is systematically destroyed. In more simple noticed. Continued exercise may fmther terms, MS is a disease where your own aggravate the injury. The concept of \no body turns against you, destroying the pain, no gain\ is replaced with \train insulating substance in your electrical don't strain; if stressed, get rest.\ The system and therefore causing electrical rest should continue until symptoms of leaks and malfunctions. pain and injury subside. Symptoms: There are what are called ICE: An ice pack should be applied attacks or MS crises wherethe affected immediately to a new injury. Ice individual has initially blurred or double decreases swelling and blood flow and vision, or even blindness. It tllen reduces pain. Where there is swelling, manifests itself as progressive weakness application should be continued of the extremities imd difficulty with intermittently for 72 hours. Ice should coordination and balance. never be applied directly to the skin and Speech impediments, fatigue, tremors, the maximum time for each vack dizziness loss of bowel and bladder application is 20 minutes. Using ice at control are other common symptoms soon found in themajority of the patients. bedtime is: not necessary unless the pain interferes wtHh sleeping. COMPRESSION: Initially, a wet wrap can be applied to give compression. Start distal to the injury and wrap toward the heart. Later, an elastic bandage can be used~ It should be wrapped fnmly, but not ·tightly enough to cut off circulation around the injured area. During •the early stages when swelling is severe~ the wrap should be loosened every half hour, then reapplied. Compressh0n reduces swelling and blood ·poolfQg, Compression at bedtime is not necessat)' unless the pain interferes with sleeping. ELEVATION: Elevate the injured part so that it is higher than the heart at all times i:aitiaHy and whenever possible until sweRing has subsided. In this way, gravity pFevents pooling of blood and other fluids. After the initial treatment of the injury has been completed. the four steps for recoveJy are Range of Motion, Isometrics. Calisthenics, and Exercise at 50%. RANGE OF MOTION: Healing tissues tend to scar which in turn tends to shorten muscles malcing them more susceptible to subsequent injury. Regain range of motion through passive flexibility exercises which take the muscle to fullest extendibility with tightness but without pain. Hold 10 to 20 seconds. Consciously relax the muscle being stretched. NO Bouncing! ISOMETRICS: Healing often requires resting the injured part and protecting it from further activity until swelling is down and pain is .gone. Slight or significant detraining can occur according to how long you go without using the muscle. Strength can be gradually rebuilt starting with isometrics. Create muscle tension during the isometric contraction, but stop short of pain. Count slowly to eight and relax. Repeat for three sets. CALISTHENICS: The injured part should be put through the nonnal range of motion with light resistance created by your own body weight. This action will gradually ~gin to build strength again. Repeat the calisthenics movement for 8 to ·10 repetitions, but do not work through pain. As your strength improves~ you can start to use weights heavy enotlgh to provide resistance but light en()ugh to avoid pain. Elastic resistance is as good as using weights. EXERCISE AT 50%: Return to the exercise that caused the injury. Use about ~alf of the effort required before the injury. Concentrate on the motor skills necessary to produce the movements smoothly and efficiently. Use a longer than normal warm up period before your workout. Return to normal activity keeping in mind that healing usually continues even after the pain is gene. Don't return to previous levels too soon. Exercise at 100% only after following each of the previous steps, slowly building flexibility and strength lin the injure. A Chance to ConsideY Routes ••• A Weekend Away ••• A weekend for young men is being held in Syracuse, NY at Christ the King Retreat Houce from August 13 to 15. Any young man interested in considering his own future directions, and at the same time, learning something about Jesuit life, is invited to attend. The weekend will be directed by Jesuit priests and yaung men studyirlg to be Jesuit priests and brothers. It will include time for prayer and reflection, discussion and fun. Me& and living arrangements will be at the retl'eat house. Athletic It is important for us as a societ:y to understand the this di~ease affects people at the prime of their lives and tha~. although much research has been done, a cure, or even the cause of the rlisease still eludes us. In a time where AIDS has taken the spotlight in the media, we must make an effort to support researchin other areas of medicine. Remembe!; MS is like the NY lotto. Hey! You never know ... If you would like more information on this particular disorder or if you'd like to make a donation, please contact: _. facilities will be available nearby for your use, aJtd there is a swimming :....-::Tiiiil·~· pool at the retreat house itself. As part of the weekend you will be invited to attend the Vow Day ceremony and festivities of the young men pronouncing their First Vows as Jesuits. The Multiple Sclerosis Association of America White Horse Pike Oaklyn, NJ 08107 Health & Nutrition by Judith Sheldon EATING DISORDERS, PART 0: Last week Dr. Peter V ash, an internist specializing in endoorindl- ogy and eating disorders, VJho is also Assistant Clinical Professor of Medicine at the UCLA Medical Cen- ter in Los Angeles, discussed some of the signs a parent might l()()k for if she or he suspects a child is bulimic: weight fluctuation;. l>!eoc- cupation with weight; rigidity about the types of food she (Dr. V ash n<>tes the 10-1 ratio; for every 10 females who are bulimic, there tends to be one male) will or won· teat; and con- tinual concern about getting fat. \The bulimic,\ Dr .. Vasb., .. realizes she • s out of control. She's been ~ing~ ing and purging in secret, and :really wants and needs help. I feel if the parent has a sense that something is going wrong; if she shows the signs we discussed, and if there are a great many diet books around, and diet aids, then the parent should sit down with the girl and ask, • Are you having trouble with your weight? Are you trying to lose weight? Axe you on some diets?\ Then she can say, 'Do you think you have an eating problem?· .. The youngster might respond with, 'What do you mean?' The parent could then reply, 'Well, I've been reading a few things, and I know how difficult it is for some There is no cost for the weekend other thfAll your own transportation expenses. A van will leave from the New Y.Qrk City area for anyone who would like a ride to Syracuse. The weekend will begin with dinner on Friday evening and will end wilh lunch on Sunday afternoon. During the weekend we will spend time looking at what makes a person a healthy adult and what part our faith plays in our development as a person. Wf! will look at what Jesuits are all aoout and how the Jesuit vision is expressed today. If yo~ould like more information on the weekend just ask any Jesuit you know or write or call: ).. Fr. joseph Costantino, SJ 501 East Fordham Road aronx, NY 10458 (212) 584.0300 FT. Donald Maldari, S1- 420 Dcmong Drive Syracuse, NY 13214 (315) 446-0142 THE JESUITS girls to lose weight. Some girls feel so frustrated about their weight, they would binge, and then purge, and use laxatives and diuretics ... ' \What has happened here, is that the parent is not judging the girl. She is, h()wever, making it clear that she knows about -such behavior, and she's there to help. This makes it easy f.ar the girl to confess that she needs help.·· Dr. Vash emphasized these key poi11ts for parents: .. Be inqumng. Be friendly. Be open. And most of all, don •t be judgmental. Make it absolutely clear that you're there to help her, not judge ller.\ If you have questions for Dr. Peter Vash, send them to me cfo King Fea- tures Weekly Service, 235 East 45th Street~ New York, N.Y. 10017. Selected questions will be answered in this ;column.

t· The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenecta4y, New York April 22r 1993 Editor-in-Chief · Executive Editor News Editors News Analysis Editor · · Features Editvrs Layout Edirors Copy Editor OP-ED Edit()J.'. Arts Editors Sports Editor Business & Finance Editor Science & Health Editor W <>tld.News Editor Advertising Editors · CatllpusNews Editor PhmoEditor · · · David. Levin~ . Deb Mclnerner . Matt Karlyn, Caroline J>aine Veronica Roger~ . Doug :Bartell, Erin O'Ne:U Lisa Lemoi, Buffy Rubenst~in . Heathet Reynolds Beth Lifson Belinda Crago. Niki GoldUlt .. · Talley Bel$inger : . Dagan La eorte . Dylan Ratigan: . . .. . Eileen C<?lkin~ · Craig Greetiberg . Sharon Smith. Fran GoldStein~ .. : · J~A~e }\,.;t .. ,... ·· ! . . ~ ... ~os, . · · · · Kate. 'Caraand .·· · . : Brla~na P~1ll()(i~: , • \ --:;, •I ..,...;..;~-....,...;...........,.....,..,......_...;;.....,;.....;.;;.........,.,.:.. .. · ... rh~ ~ast.Cl,lld· llutti~;.~::pf The d~ndordiettsi~;,;, .·.··.· .. ·_.· ·. : .• • ;. · ·-'c}J:t_d.Bnto~G<?llege:_ ·'-.~- .. ·: · >·\.). ··. ·· · :U:m~ri-¢9U~ge·w.~.:on~·kn<>~~-.a$ 'oll~--~itiJe' be~t· :. · sa1~ .~QJ1egesin t~te c()~ntliYF .•. nete'was:~a. tnn~·~lieti , s~d~~t~ .'\','~ul~. a~tend·~i~~cplege~· t}ye~jf t~~y·w~te·': · •-a.c~~pf~ .. t~_~vf·Leagt1e ~lto()J~:· 9al1.:.Uw&n regaif.1,:tnt;·: teputatt<m> lt. ·had· years·. ago? . · · The ·answer t()' lh~t!,: ~questi_o~,ti~s·-l~· :the -~·!~~~¢ss,.~f Jf.~ij},l-•.s~4e~i$:t~;: .~epJ:esent JltC: .. ;college: lll t,ne ~st lltJ,~sib.l¢ :IiJght. t(f ·~- : fu~~tudent$Md.pare.nts~ . • .. <·· . ' .. •.·· .. •···.· .. ··. ~:,s:::· .>· · .... One::?f t~e:~y~- th;tt tki$ c~u be 4~e is -tbtcdttgtl ali'·: .11tlpr~¥e~~~\ tn.-~~-stu~t ·ne,-sp~p~t~ · Allp~9~t;;v~·:: studellt~,a~dp~ents who.vtsitJb.e sc]1;Qollook at:tlleo·' .!lewspaper,.m.4·.if.they.··f>eliQ:v¢· ~b-at.some of·:the:. . )na~equae~es ()f tlle:newspapet _ar-e ·reilttsentativ~:of ihe::; . StudentbOQ.y; then tb~Se, Stttde,atS<~t:fm,Qre Jit~ly t6_-··· · attend :at.totll~r sc~o()l :;with .a c~mpt;ltable ·ac~ideinJ~.~ ·....o.p·u*'\tion ·· · ... · .... · .. · ·· .. ·, ... ; ·· · ... ··· .. _<J.-\1 '--~- _· . .;,.··_ ...• ··.- ·,_ ,. .' . ··: · • . :_·;.: :: .. ··•··· ::· :· ·:; .· - .. _.:_f,; Last :week; in an. ~!fort t? restore ;some of the glory ·: that wa~ onc.e 'l$sog1~ted wtth the n~wspap~r~ the-~- ... :on the mastwi\S changed back to The Concotflien$i$.;c: the name t>f the newsna~:r wherf it was founded-~,.,;····· 1877, . l\\ :t\\\ . . . . ·. . ' · ... · ~L In 1961, Conc.ordien$ls .. (the ·11ame had already bee11 , changed} won the International Press Award .at th-e · Kennedy, Ro_ckefeller7 Harriman. 'Conference ·th-e'· highest award that could be . given to a coiiege, ·newspaper. At this confete:tlce,. Concordy was Jqc.fged · to ?e the be-st college weekly in the U.S. In 1961, · Umon College had an excellent academic. reputation .. Although there is 11b proof that the school*s trartk' · coincides with the success of The Callcordiensis, there · ~an. be, no doubt that an excellent newspaper is . mdicative of hard work and talented students. These.·· are two qualities that all students look for when deciding wbere to go to college. · · · ·. -. How much do you want your Union degree to be · wonh iJ:t thl' future? Get involved and help your school • restore Its old ,$'lory. . · • OPINIONS Student Evaluations Do Mean Something by· David Fischer Co11cordiensis Staff The evaluation process, by which Union students confiden1ially air their views on the quality of their profesS<lrs is one of the most effective ways of maintaining standards cf excellence at the school; yet. most student's believe ,tll~t these evaluations are nvt: taken seriously. especially for professors with tenure. Year in and year out, a select few professors befuddle and bewilder their students with cryptic in-class lectures. and outlandisil testing methods. provoking poor evaluations from the students. But these same pro-fessors go on teaching the same classes, frustrating the same ~tudents who pay top dollar for what they hoped would be a grade A education. The cunfidentiality of the evaluatia!ls process .prevents anybody from obtaining concrete evidence to prove that certain pr<>fessors constantly get ne~ative ratings. But students talk. Those taking the same classes generally agree on who in a particu1ar department is good and who is not. From these conversations, it is relatively easy to gaQge the general opinion of any professor. Lecturing is difficult. I always felt it takes a certain talent to stand up in frvnt of a room full of people for hours on end arid rattle off a crisp, coherent lecture that the audience will remember. Many people (myself included) simply can oot do it. Forgive my harshness, but those who can not lecture effectively simply should not be doing so in class! More than anything else, the student evaluations indicate who keeps the class interesting. and who bores the class to tears. Lecturing is the way college professors earn money to support themselves and their families, so I would never call on any professor to be fired because of inability to lecture. There are other roads to take. A LETTERS science professor who is a poor lecturer can teach lab ·sections, which though quite important, pale in comparison to the value of the lectures. A humanities professor who does not make the grade with the students taking upper class courses should be restricted to teaching introductory cvmses, where the material is usually more general, and tile students do not depend as much on the professor for understanding. Some may feel that the tone of this editorial is harsh. It is not meant to be so. It is meant to show the department chair people that the students take pride in their evaluations, and when called for, certain changes should be made. We pay for quality, and for he most part, we get it. But things could be even better. Some real duds are out there lecturing in the classrooms. The students know it. With the help of student evaluations, I hope the department chairmen will know it too, and do something about it. Union College Dinosaurs To the Editor: You can tell a lot about a culture t>y what it writes on its walls. For instance, we know about the prehistoric peoples by their cave drawings of extinct animals, ceremonies and deities. Men's rooms are no exception. As I occupy various stalls in 111en's rooms around campus, I can't help but read the wallL The culture at Union College «loos not come vff as well as tile Neanderthals. Amon~ the usual puerile commenU. about flaternities, 1 sororities, professors and departmctlts can be found the words nf~got\ and \nigger\. Ironicall)'i I was on my way to a wcrkshop on multicultllralism · in college education when I saw the last word. I was shocked, embarrassed and angry. I debated whether to erase the word or leave it there so that subsequent stall-occupiers could not escape the fact that racism is alive and well at Union. I chose to erase it because I didn't want to give support to other (water)closet racists. We like to think that those who write such words are the dinosaurs of the collegiate culture. that they,. like the creatures oa the cave walls, will soon bec;ome extinct. .But we must remember, however, that the real dinosaurs lived hundreds of millions of. years. They only became extillct after their environment changed and they failed to adapt. Our Union College dinosaurs will only become extinct if the social environment for them is so unfavorable on campus that they, too, will be forced to adapt. It is up to the rest of us. faculty administration and students, to emphatically and forcefully reject racism, sexism, homophobia and other fonns of intolerance and erase them from the walls and halls of our college. If we are not part of the solution, we are part of the problem. ·Peter Tobiessen Biology Department

Q!hr <llonrnr-b irnsts The Student Newspaper of Uni.orz College Since 1877 Schenectady, New York April 22, 1993 Editor-in-Chief Executive Editor News Editors ·News Analysis Editor Features Editors Layout Editors Copy Editor OP-ED Editor Arts Editors Sports Editor Business & Finance Editor Science & Health Editor World News Editor Advertising Editors Campus News Editor Photo Editor Davicl Levine Deb Mcinerney Matt Karlyn, Caroline Paine Veronica Rogers Doug Bartell, Erin O'Neil Lisa Lemoi, B uffy Rubenstein Heather Reynolds Beth Lifson . Eelinda Crago, Niki Goldin, Talley Belsinger Dagan La Corte . Dylan Ratigan Eileen Calkin . Craig Greenberg Sharon Smith. Frail Goldstein.: Jodie Adams Kate Cartland · Briailna Patnode · ·The Past and Future of The Concordiensis • · and Union College Union Ccllege was once known as one of the best small colleges in the country. There was a time when students would attend this college~ even if they were · accepted to Ivy League schools. Can Union regain the · reputation it had years ago? The answer to that question lies in the willingness of Union students t() . represent the college in the best passible light to ail . · future students and parents. . . One of the ~ays that this cam: be done is through an Improvement m the student newspaper. All prospective . students and parents who visit the school look at the . . newspaper, and if they beHeve that some of the · inadequacies of the newspaper are representative of the student body~ then these students are more likely to attend .another school with a comparable academic reputation. Last week, in an effort to restore some of the glory that was once associated with the newspaper~ the name on the mast was changed back to The Concordiensis, the name of the newspaper when it was founded in 1877. In 1961, Concordiensis (the name had already been changed) won the International Press Award at the Kennedy, Rockefeller, Harriman Conference the highest award that could be given to a cohege newspaper. At this conference, Concordy was judged to ~ the best college weekly in the U.S. In 1961, Umon College had an excellent academic reputation. Although there is no proof that the school's 'rank' coincides with the success of The Concordiensis, there can be no doubt that an excellent newspaper is indicative of hard work and talented students. These are two qualities that all students look for when deciding where to go to college. How much do you want your Union degree to be worth in the future? Get involved and help your school restore its old glory. Associate Photo Editors Josh Haines, Scott Steele Associate Editor David Fischer Opinions colurnnists Mi:rriam Seddiq, Amy Cypress . Senior Editorial Advisors Ed Walley, Lara Chamberlaitl. Senior Financial Advisor Pam Leinson ·. Senior Sports Advisors Hal Poret, Rich Morgan Subscription Manager Matt Grabowski ' Computer Manager Brett Saunders : Associate Sports Editors Lee Schachter, Greg Kalish • Staff Writers : Thor Benander, Bruno Benzaquen, Michelle: Ellis, Cindy Huts, Greg Kalish, Alex Kreisler~ Alexis Leist,. Pam Lin. Craig Pike, Chris Ringw.ald, Lee Schachter, Dass Seaman. · Submissions : All submissions to Concordiensis are due the. Tuesday before publication at 4PM if they are submitted on . Macintosh Microsoft Work Disks. Otherwise all submissions are due Monday by 4PM in the drop box .outside of tile Concordicnsi~. offroe on the tllird floor of the Conege Center. Cencorditnlsis is published hin..e Thursdays a term by the' student body ()f Union College, Schenectady, New York 12308~· Subscription rate: $40 per year, delivered anywhere in the Uni,ted · States. Mail subscriptions 1o Box :1#2577, College Ceater~ Union . CoUege. Ctmcardiensis subscribes to the InterCollegiate PresS.· (IP). Office Telephone (518) 37{}-6155, A~.vertising 'l:elephone (518) 370..6494. . OPINIONS Student Evaluations Do Mean Something by David Fischer Concordiensis Staff The evaluation process, by which Union studl()nts confidentially air their views on the quality of ttlleir professors is one of the most effective ways of maintailling standards of excellence at the school; yet, most student's believe that these evaluations are not taken seriomsly. especially for professors with tenure. Year in and year ()llt, a select few professors bef11ddle and bewilder their students with cryptic in-class lectures, and outlandish testing metll()ds, provoking poor evaluations from the students. But these same professors go on teac:hing the same classes, frustrating the same students who pa)' top dollar for what they hoped would be a grade A educaticn Tile confidentiality of the evaluations process prevrents anybody from obtailling concrete evidence to prove: that certain professors constantly get negative ratings. But students talk. Those taking the same classes generally agree on who in a particular department is good and who is not. From these conversations, it is relatively easy to gauge the general opinion of any professor . Lee turing is difficult. I always felt it takes a certain talent to stand up in front of a room full of people for hours on end and rattle off a crisp, coherent lecture that the audience will remember. Many people (myself included) simply can not do it. Forgive my harshness, but those who can n()t lecture effectively simply sllould not be doing so in class! More than anything else, tile student evaluations indicate who keeps the class interesting, and who bores the class to tears. Lecturing is the way college professors earn money to support themselves and their families, so I would never call on any professor to be fired because of inability to lecture. There are other roads to take. A LETTERS science professor who is a poor lecturer can teach lab sections, which though quite important, pale in comparison to the value of the lectures. A humanities professor who does not make the grade with the students taking upper class courses should be restricted to teaching introductory comses, where the material is usually more general. and the students do not depend as much on the professor for understanding. Some may feel that the tone of this editorial is harsh. It is not meant to be so. It is meant to show the department chair people that the students take pride in their evaluations, and when called for, certaill changes should be made. We pay for quality. and for he most part. we get it. But things could be even better. Some real duds are out there lecturing in the classrooms. The students know it. With the help of student evaluations, I hope the department chairmen will know it too. and do something about it. Union College Dinosaurs To the Editor: You can tell a lot abo11t a culture by what it writes on its walls. For instance, we kn.ow about the prehistoric peoples by their cave drawing:; of extinct animals, ceremonies and deities. Men's rooms are ilO exception. As I occupy various stalls in men's rooms arcnumd campus, I can't help but read the walls. The culture at Utlion College does not come Otff as well as the Neanderthals. Among the usual pll'erile comments about fraternities,· sororities. professors and departments can be fotllld the words \faggot\ and \nig:ger\. Ironically, I was on my way to a workshop on multicu-lturalism in college educatioll when I saw the last word. I was shocked, embarrassed and angry. I debated whether to erase the word or leave it there so that subsequent stall-occupiers could !lOt escape the fact that racism is alive and well at Union. I chose to erase it because I didn't want to give support to other (water)closet racists. We like to think that those who write such words are the dinosaurs of the collegiate culture, that they, like the creatures Oil the cave walls, will sroa become extinct. But we must remember, however, that the real dinosaurs lived hundreds of millions of years. They only became extinct after their environment changed and they failed to adapt Our Union College dinosaurs will only become extinct if the social environment for them is so unfavorable on campus that they, too, will be forced to adapt. It is up to the rest of us. faculty administration and students, to emphatically and forcefully reject racism. sexism. homophobia and other fonns of intolerance and erase them from the walls and halls of our college. If we are not part of the solution. we are part of the problem. Peter Tobiessen Biology Department

W.t (1!Dnrvrbirn.sis Join the Honorary :Degrees Committee 'Dear Editor, I am writing on behalf of the h.onorary degrees committee to inform the student body of the dire need for student involvement on this C<lmmittee. Each year the C<lmmittee is in charge of selecting a number of candidates for both the c<Jmmencement speaker and other honorary degrees. Due to the fact that a sufficient amount students did not apply 1ast year, this process was delayed until the fall. As a c<Jnsequence, the committee has had a rather difficult time finding a speaker because the candidates were not asked to come at an early enough date. The candidates for next year will be chosen this spring only if. the committee is filled. .A..pplicatio.ns ~Will. tie .av~able Monday at student activities for two sophomore positions and ()11e junior position. Please do not let there be a repeat of this year! We, as students, have a tremendous amouQ.t of impact ()D t11e candidate selection and it <:an not be done without us. So get involved, apply soon, and help make your graduation ceremonies outstanding. Sincerely, Michele Scrime 93' Honorary Degrees Comm. \ .. A Response to a Continuing Problem 1o the Editor: \Union students drive expensive cars, dress in fine d<>thing, and attend a $24,000 a year institution.\ That was . from Ms. Unterberg's article \Tensions Questioned Between Schenectady Residents and Union Students\ in the April 15 Concordy. Now those were ller own words~ I guess a blanket statement of some sort. Well ... how come I mdn't get an \expensive car?'' First of all, what struck me is tint it took Ms. U nterberg <>ver three years to finally realize that these \interactions\ lletween Union College students and Schenectady residents must be \examined.\ 1 think that after the first week llere I could tell there were some problems, and it's just tile typical Union student who talces three years to figure that cut. The second thing that caught my attention was the comments made by the various trnployees. I can definitely see that many of the students here are in their own little world, some might even call tl11ern arrogant or inconsiderate~ ()r maybe stuck-up and 1houghtless, or maybe ... never mind. But inconsiderate or not~ .we give these people, in some cases, a large. portion of their business. Is that any way to treat a client? You'd think 1hat by so blatantly bad mouthing the sluderits. that they might lose that business. Maybe they could give us a few pointers on how to clean up our act and maybe even a thanks for the business; but no, we are just the phlegm of that employee who spit on the ground (ref. to Ms.Unterberg's article). I d<>n't thin)( tllat what these employees said was the best way to improve the situation. So what's the point1 I don't know! Maybe it's possible that people, even some of ourselves, perceive Union College students as stuck-up, rich and pompous ... and I don't like that perception. Maybe it's ,that so many students :here are so caught up in themselves and their little Union life, that they don't care wl!at the residents think of them. Most ·Of the people that read the article will probably C()ntinue to interact with these people the same way .as before. Too few will be pissed off on having been. unjustly accused and·too few will do amything to rectify the situation by changin_g their behavior in the future. The problem comes from both sides: the students and the residents, and neither group is willing to do anything ab<Jut it. God forbid, we could never initiate anything to help out, oh no, not us .... Jeremy Govennan April 16, 1993 Special Thanks to Unio~· C~ll!ege ~ Students To the editor: On behalf of the B<>ard and staff of American Jewish World Service, and especially the recipients of our aid in the former Yugoslavia, I would like to thank the students of Union College for their donation to AJWS' relief efforts. I would like to especially thank Lisa Levinger for organizing this endeavor. · AJWS is currently sending air shipments of medical supplies to clinics in and around Zagreb, Croatia. The supplies are distribtJted to hospitals and other medical facilities that, due to tile civil war, are in great need of basic medicines and medical instruments. Thank you again for your hard work on behalf of the AJWS. Donations such as this one allow us to continue to work to improve the quality of life of people around the world. Sincerely, Andrew Griffel Jewish World Service Taking a Look at The Evolution of Diversity As several people in the campus may have noticed in the April 15 issue of T h e . Conrordiensis. there was. a article written by the co~chrur of the African and Latirio LETTERS_ Alliance of ~tudents, Joe Korthwrig.ht. The article was the conclusion and response of a selected group of students that attempted for sometime to provide useful recommendations and suggestions to the administrative body that controls the educational curriculum at Union. In the meeting that took place on Monday 12, 1993, the representative students agreed to hold a discussion to diS<:uss issues ranging from the implementation of more varied · course choices to fulfill the requirements for the General Education Curriculum, other than the current three .sequences in, Classical, European and American. Unfortunately. the meeting did not turned out to be as pmductive as it should have been. Statements were said and feeling were hurt either by a misunderstanding or by the real meaning of them. For example, according to a student who was at the meeting. one of the administrative leaders commented, \We made a conscious decision to not put non-western culture on the same level as western 'culture ... \. After that remark, knifes were drawn and feelings ran high. The students asked the administrator to explain. No concrete answer was given. At the end, six students and two administrators were at odds with each otherand the controversy still rages on. I. as a .student who was not present .in the meeting cannot say what really took place between both parties, but what I w<>uld like to state is what I feel about the whole issue. Does the mentioned quote mean that African-American history is limited to slavery? Does that mean that the persecution of the Jews throughout most of modern history and the final outcome, the Holocaust, just fifty years ago mean nothing? Does this mean that the history of our neighbors just a couple of thousand miles away (Mexico, Cuba, Nicaragua just to mention a few}, which affected America in the past and will deeply change that ethnical , philosophical and economic facade of America of tomorrow mean nothing? Does that mean that the history of the Asian countries, some of which already had an economic impact in America as in the rest of the world, (Japan, South Korea, Taiwan just to mention a few), as well militarily and demographically, (China with 1 +Billion people) in the world mean nothing? The United States is changing as many other countries in the world, for the better or maybe for the worse. In order for our counlry to hold on to the position that we have had for the past one bundled years as the leading military might, as well as economic might (certainly doubtful at this point). there has to be a prof<>und change in the way we look at the. world. A couple of years ago, people were interested and had the desire to learn American history, as well as English, in order to get ahead either in their country or . in America. I was one of them. The fact is that. America back then and right now is very different. We did not get any worse but other countries reached our level of economic prowess and moved up Oapan .and Germany economically, China demographically and lately militarily}, while we remained seated on our laurels. In order to progress, we have to realize that it is our turn to reach out and learn from the rest .of the world. Union, when it was founded, stood for innovative ideas. The founders felt that the traditional ways of education were not going to produce individuals ~equipped to deal with an unce:rtai11 and fastly changing world. Take a look at the school name, Union. The definition that was found in a dictionary says the following, \Union: act of joining two or more things into one; federation; marriage; harmony. The name stands for the harmony of several elements under one cause and purpose. We were one of the only colleges to offer a choice of French, as well as Latin as a foreign language. Look at our school seal, the one with the Minerva bust. The motto is not written in Latin but in French. Furthermore, Union was one of the first, if not the first schools in the United States to offer Chemistry and Engineering courses as early as the 1800's. As Union is nearing its two huildreth anniversary, I wonder if th~ ~gacy and its orig~nal mission is being fulfilled. Are we producing individuals who are capable of being the best in the United States? No, I don't believe so. Are we producing individuals who are capable of taking the best advantages nf a swiftly changing world and are prope1fy equipped to understand and respect other cultures' values and ways of thinking or dealing? No, I don't believe so. Some other institutions have learned the need and the importance of inclusive programs and are implementing programs to equip their students with the tools necessary to keep up and reap benefits in this ever changing world. It seems like we, at Union, are trailing behind. There are individuals who state things like, \Why should I learn someone else's history?\. Obviously, they should not be obliged to take such courses, after all this is a free country. Right? WT<>ng. When I came to Union, I realized the need to have a good history background in all kinds of history; however, Asian history, Latin American history and Africana history were not among the choices. I had to learn Western history, a decision which I do not regret, but still it would have helped me a lot more if I had the choice. I am not.asking for the actual expansion of some departments but what I am requestiqg now is .the open~ng of more choices for the whole student body. We have an East Asian Studies Department and a well qualified group of professors who teach courses . for the Latin Studies curriculum. Why not let the incoming first year students have more than three choices available for them? Certainly, there will always be a group . who will not be satisfied with what is offered, but if we can satisfy at least one, if not several for now. we are keeping up with the legacy of our fo11nding fathers. College e~perience means not only inteHectual upbringing but also social and behavioral learning. The fulfillment of intellectual curiosity for an individual's past are part of that social and intellectual growth acquired in C<>llege. Union should not only make outstanding Doctors, Engineers and other professionals but also Union should make sure that it is ed11cating the most sensible and humane individuals. Remember Darwin· s Theory? He stated that only those species that inherit traits (those which will give them an edge in the swvival competition, in an changing environment) will be most likely to survive. Please feel free to visit any museum with a natural history collection and see the rotund evidence of Darwin's law. Don'l let Union graduates become an bad example of Darwin's law. Joan Keurn. '94 ·thisW·eek . . On April 19, 1775, at Lexington, Mass., the Minutemen lost eight men coBfronting the British, who suffered 273 casualties •.. April 21, 1836, Sam Houston and the Texans defeated the Mexicans ... April 21, . 1855, the first railroad train to cross the Mississippi went over the river's first bridge between Rock Island, Ill.; and Davenport, Iowa ... April 19, 1861, President Lincoln set up Ji blockade of southern ports, cutting off vital exports and aid ... April22, 1889, the U.S. declared Oklahoma open to white settlement; within 24 hours, claims were staked by 50,000 settlers at a minimum of two acres each ... April 22, 1898, the U.S. blockaded Cuba in aid of inde- pendence forces ... April 24, 1898, the U.S. declared war on Spain ... April 22, 1930, the London Naval Reduction Treaty was signed by the U.S., Britain, Italy, France and Japan ... Apri\19, 1933, President Franklin Roosevelt announced that the gold standard would be dropped ... April 22, 11)54, Senator Joseph McCarthy began televised hearings into alleged Communist influence in the Army ... April 25, 1959, the St. Lawrence Seaway opened ... April 21, 1960, Congress approved a strong voting rights act ... April22, 1970, millions of Americans participated in anti- ' pollution demonstrations to mark the first Earth Day ... April 24, 1980, eight Americans were killed and five were wounded in an ill-fated attempt to rescue the hostages held by Iranian militants at the U.S. Embassy in Teheran ... April20, 1983, President Reagan signed a compromise, bipar- tisan bill designed to rescue the So- cial Security System from banknlptcy. IC 1993 by King Features Synd. IJllD·w-n u 'C~. ·:·lf·cmrr ©Tro cc ®wOOl

mkr OlnnrDr:b irn.si.s Join the Honorary Degrees Committee Dear Editor, I am writing on behalf of the honorary degrees committee to infom1 the student body of the dire need for student involvement on this committee. Each year the committee is in charge of selecting a number of candidates for both the commencement speaker and othet· honorary degrees. Due to the fact that a sufficient amollf.lt students did not apply last year, this process was delayed until the fall. As a consequence, the committee has had a rather difficult time finding a speaker because the candidates were not asked to come at an early enough date. The candidates for next year will be chosen this spring only if the committee is filled. Applications will be available Monday at student activities for two sophomore positions and one juaior position. Please do not let there be a repeat of this year! We, as students, have a tremendous amount of impact on the candidate selection and it can not be done without us. So get involved, apply soon, and help make your graduation ceremonies outstanding. Sincerely, Michele Scrime 93' Honorary Degrees Comm. A Response to a Continuing Problem To the Editor: \Union students drive expensive cars, dress in fine clothing, and attend a $24,000 a year institution.\ That was from Ms. Unterberg's article \Tensions Questioned Between Schenectady Residents and Union Students\ in the April 15 Concordy. Now those were her own words, I guess a blanket statement of some sort. Well ... how come I didn't get an \expensive car?\ First of all, what struck me is that it took Ms. Unterberg over three years to finally realize that these \interactions\ between Union College students and Schenectady residents must be \examined.\ I think that after the first week here I could tell there were some problems, and it's just the typical Union student who takes dlfee years to figure that out. The second thing that caught my attention was the comments made by the various employees. I can definitely see that many of the students here are in their own little world, some might even call them arrogant or inconsiderate, or maybe stuck-up and thoughtless, or maybe ... never mind. But inconsiderate or not, we give these people, in some cases, a large portion of their btlsiness. Is that any way to treat a client? You'd think that by so blatantly bad mouthing the students, that they might lose that business. Maybe they could give us a few pointers on how to clean up our act and maybe even a thanks for the b11siness; but no, we are just the phlegm of that employee who spit on the ground (ref. to Ms.Unterberg's article). I don't think that what these employees said was the best way to improve the situation. So what's the point? I don't know! Maybe it's possible that people, even some of ourselves, perceive Union College students as stuck-up, rich and pompous ... and I don't like that perception. Maybe it's that so many students here are so caught up in themselves and their little Union life, that they don't care what the residents think of them. Most of the people that read the article will probably continue to interact with these people the same way as before. Too few will be pissed off on having been unjustly accused and too few will do anything to rectify the situation by changing their behavior in the future. The problem comes from both sides: the students and the residents, and neither group is willing to do anything about it. God forbid, we could never initiate anything to help out, oh no, not us .... Jeremy Govennan April 16, 1993 Special Thanks to Union Co-llege Students To the editor: On behalf of the Board and staff of American Jewish World Service, and especially the recipients of Ollf aid in the former Yugoslavia, I would like to thank the students of Union College for their donation to AJws· relief efforts. I would like to especially thank Lisa Levinger for organizing this endeavor. AJWS is currently sending air shipments of medical supplies to clinics in and around Zagreb, Croatia. The supplies are distributed to hospitals and other medical facilities that, due to the civil war, are in great need of basic medicines and medical instruments. Thank you again for your hard work on behalf of the AJWS. Donations such as this one allow us to continue to work to improve the quality of life of people around the world. Sincerely~ Andrew Griffe! Jewish World Service Taking a Look at The Evolution of Diversity As several people in the campus may have noticed in the April 15 iss11e of The Concordiensis, there was a article written by the co-chair of the African and Latino LETTERS Alliance of Students, Joe Korthwright. The article was the conclusioa and response of a selected group of students that attempted for sometime to provide useful recommendations and suggestions to the administrative body that controls the educational curriculum at Union. In the meeting that took place on Monday 12, 1993, the representative students agreed to hold a discussion to discuss issues ranging from the implementation of more varied course choices to fulfill the requiFements for the General Education Curriculum, other than the current three sequences in, Classical, European and American. Unfortunately, the meeting did not turned out to be as productive as it should have been. Statements were said and feeling were hurt either by a misunderstanding or by the real meaning of them. For example, according to a student who was at the meeting, one of the administrative leaders commented, \We made a conscious decision to not put non-western culture on the same level as western culture ... \ After that remark, knifes were drawn and feelings ran high. The students asked the administrator to explain. No concrete answer was given. At the end, six students and two administrators were at odds with each otherand the controversy still rages on. I, as a student who was not present in .the meeting cannot say what really took place between both parties, but what I would like to state is what I feel about the whole issue. Does the mentioned quote mean that African-American history is limited to slavery? Does that mean that the persecution of the Jews throughout most of modern history and the final outcome, the Holocaust, just fifty years ago mean nothing? Does this mean that the history of our neighbors just a couple of thousand miles away (Mexico, Cuba, Nicaragua just to mention a few), which affected America in the past and will deeply change that ethnical . philosophical and economic facade of America of tomorrow mean nothing? Does that mean that the history of the Asian countries, some of which already had an economic impact in America as in the rest of the world, (Japan, South Korea, Taiwan just to mention a few}, as well militarily and demographically, (China with l+Billion people) in the world mean nothing? The United States is changing as many other countries in the world, for the better or maybe for the worse. In order for our country to hold on to the position that we have had for the past one hundred years as the leading military might, as well as economic might (certainly doubtful at this point), there has to be a profound change in the way we look at the world. A couple of years ago, people were interested and had the desire to learn American history, as well as English, in order to get ahead either in their country or in America. I was one of them. The fact is tliart, America back then and ri,ght now is very different. We did not get any worse but other countries reached our level of economic prowess and move:d up (Japan and Germany economically, Chin a demographically and late! y militarily), while we remained seated on our laurels. In or<ler to progress, we have to realiz:e that it is our turn to reach oot and learn from the rest of tiLe world. Union, when it was founded, stood for innovative ideas. The founders felt that the traditionatl ways of education were not going to produce individual s ·equipped to deal with am uncertain and fastly changin;g world. Take a look at lh•c school name, Union. Thoe definition that was found in .a dictionary says the followi11g, \Union: act of joining two Otr more things into one; federation; marriage; harmou:r. The name stands for thiC harmony of several eleme11t.s under one cause and purpose. We were one of the onl;y colleges to offer a choice of French, as well as Latin as ca foreign language. Look at our school seal, the one with thlf Minerva bust. The motto i:s not written in Latin but im French. Furthermore. Uniom was one of the first, if not thlf first schools in the United States to offer Chemistry and Engineering courses as early a~ the 1800's. As Union is nearing its two hundreth anniversary, I wondc;r if the ~gacy and its original mission is being fulfilled. Are we producing individuals wllo are capable of being the best im the United States? No, I do11'11 believe so. Are we produciug individuals who are capable olf taking the best advantages of a swiftly changing world and are properly equipped to understand and respect other cultures~ values and ways of thinking olf dealing? No, I don't believe so. Some other institutions have learned the need and the importance of inclusi-ve programs and are implcmcntiiD~ programs to equip their students with the tools. necessary to keep up and reap• benefits in this ever changing world. It seems like we, at Union, are trailing 'behind. There are individuals who state things like. \Why should I learn someone else's: history?\. Obviously, they- should not be obliged to take: such courses, after all this is ru free country. Right? Wrong. When I came to Union, [ realized the need to have a goodl history background in all kin~s; of history: however, Asia11 history, Latin America11 history and Africana history- were not among the choices. I had to learn Western history. a decision which I do not regret~ but still it would have helped me a lot more if I had the choice. I am not asking for the- actual expansion of some- departments but what I am requesting now is the opening of more choices for the whole- student body. We have an East Asian Studies Department and a well qualified group ()f professors who teach courses; for the Latin Studies. curriculum. Why not let the: incoming first year students; have more than three choices available for them? Certainly, there wHl always be a group who will not be satisfied with what is offered, but if we can satisfy at least one, if not several for now, we are keeping up with the legacy of our founding fathers. College experience means not only intellectual upbringing but also social and behavioral learning. The fulfillment of intellectual curiosity for an individual's past are part of that social and intellectual growth acquired in College. Union should not only make outstanding Doctors, Engineers and other professionals but also Union should make sure that it is educating the most sensible and humane individuals. Remember Darwin's Theory? He stated that only those species that inherit traits (those which will give them an edge in the survival competition, in an changing environment) will be most likely to survive. Please feel free to visit any museum with a natural history collection and see the rotund evidence of Darwin· s law. Don't let Union graduates become an bad example of Darwin's law. Joon Keum, '94 On April 19, 1775, at Lexington, Mass., the Minutemen lost eight men confronting the British, who suffered 273 casualties ... April 21, 1836, Sam Houston and the Texans defeated the Mexicans ... April 21, 1855, the first rai I road train to cross the Mississippi went over the river's first bridge between Rock Island, Ill.; \ and Davenport, Iowa ... April 19, 1861, President Lincoln set up a I blockade of southern ports, cutting . off vital exports and aid ... April22, I 1889, the U.S. declared Oklahoma ! open to white settlement; within 24 1 1 hours, claims were staked by 50,000 settlets at a minimum of two acres each ... April 22, 1898, the U.S. blockaded Cuba in aid of inde- pendence forces ... April 24, 1898, · the U.S. declared war on Spain .... April 22, 1930, the London Naval ; Reduction Treaty was signed by the , U.S., Britain, Italy, France and Japan ... April19, 1933. President Franklin Roosevelt announced that the gold standard would be dropped ... April , 22, 1954, Senator Joseph McCarthy i began televised hearings into alleged Communist influence in the Army ... April 25, 1959, the St. Lawrence Seaway opened .. April 21, 1960, Congress apprmed a strong voting .I rights act ... April22, 1970, millions i of Americans participated m anti- pollution demonstrations to mark the fitst Earth Day ... April 24, 1980, : eight Americans were killed and five I were wounded in an ill-fated attempt to rescue the hostages held by lranun militants at the U.S. Embassy in Teheran ... April20, 1983, President · Reagan signed a compromi5e, b1par- , tisan bill designed h.J rescue the So- cial Security System from bankruptcy. 01993 by Kmg FeatW'C£ S;'lld '--------------- ! I I I I ® IJiHC ® [f 001 ~

Apri122, 1993, page 12 FEATURES B uttafuocoism as NEW & IMPROVED The Religion of--:--T~h~e ---y-'·9_0~' s TO JD(C [ e IB(fjln (Q Erin M. O'Neil Features Editor with Guest Star Suzanne Q. Silverstein Joey Buttafuoco is God, and I practice Bottafuocoism .. That's right, Buttafuocoism. ! And I'm not just a Reformed : Buttafuocoist, I'm a full fledged ; Orthodox. Tlie Muslims flee to Mecca, I flee to Long Island. The Body Shop (his garage) is' my shrine. I am a devout reader of the Buttafuoco Bible. And every night before I go to bed, I kneel before my homemade shrine. light a candle, and pray for Mary Jo's (the Madonna's) full recovery. Who cares if he commits statutory rape and speaks in double negatives? Who cares if he's obnoxious and uneducated? So what?! That stuff doesn't matter! He's Joey Buttafuoco, and that's aH anyone needs to know! So maybe he had his own call number on Amy Fisher's \ho\ beeper? So what! It's only because that little bitch didn't know how to drive! Who cares if he made an ass of himself on Donohue? What would you do if you were in his shoes? Who wouldn't want to be in his shoes? He's Joey Buttafuocol Buttafuoco! Buttafuoco! Can you feel it? That all over warm fuzzy feeling which encompasses your soul? You've been Buttafuocoized- you are one of us! What I wouldn'~ give for a man like Joey Buttafuoco. That voice, that body hair, that... charisma! I declare a national holiday- Joey· ·:auttafuoco day. We'-ll~ hav~ parties, parades, mock shootings, and best of all- a back to back showing of his three count 'em three, made for· T.V. movies! Forget Jerry's kids, we'll have a Joey Buttafuoco telethon (proceeds go to the construction of the Joey Buttafuoco monument in Washington D.C.). At all baseball games, spectators will rise from their seats, remove their hats, and belt out the Buttafuoco anthem! \\\ • Joey Buttaf~.oco Joey Buttafuoco.- it sounds better than any Greek dessert. In fact, it should be a dessert. I'll have a large Joey Buttafuoco with sprinkles, and two straws, please. Don't 1 forget the extra napkins! · Move over Elvis, make way for Buttafuocol I spotted him in Burger King three times last week. Everyone should have a black velvet Buttafuoco over their mantle. Just picture it- snuggling with your loved one ill front of the fire, and gazing at the loving face of Joey - our savior. Families will no longer vacation at Graceland, but - to Buttafuocoworld. Visitors can take the monorail to its many attractions which include museums, gift shops, tours of the Buttafuoco home, and even a theme park- featuring rides such as, It's a Small Gun, Mary Jo's Wild Ride and Watch Out For That Ballet Mountain- the world's largest roller coaster. Of course. there's the · Hussy-Go-Round, f()r those of you who are faint at heart. Instead of horses, craftsmen have hand-carved replicas of Amy Fisher for passengers to ride. ; Maybe you still don't .understand all the hoopla about .my beloved Joey Buttafuoco. Allow. me to lleLp you finderstand: after you finish reading this article, put down dle paper. muster up your best tony Danza voice, and loudly chant- Joey Buttafuoco! Joey Buttafuco! Joey B11ttafuoco! You'll be hooked. After all, it's not just a pizza- it's a Buttafuocol Uncle Edna i's a Union College Student who answers · real questions from real people. New and Impmved Edna promises to get even the · toughest of stains o11t in one simple wash. Distraught? Inquisitive? Ask your own dear Uncle Edna -box 83. Edna's Mailbox Dear Uncle Edna, I have noticed in my two years at Union that most of the people in Schenectady walk with limps, Friends of mine agree that there is a much higher percentage of limpers in this area than in any other around. Can you help me understand why this is so. - BJ from Buffalo. DearBJ, Very good question. I myself have noticed this particular trend as well. The thought crossed my mind that maybe all the residents of Schenectady were injmed in a war or a cru· accident or a football game and thats why they all limp. Maybe it's the ground water, or maybe it was a curse placed on the town by an 18th century Indian tribe. Maybe, just maybe, they were all coincidentally born with one·leg a little shorter-than the other~ My best guess, however. is that these limpers are all desended from the same family of inbreaders. One Year Ago Dear Uncle Edna, My sister recently had a little baby boy that everyone says looks just like me. What do you think that means? cs DearCS, It means that he probably will have a hard time getting a date to the Senior Ball Survey Says Last week I asked you to tell me who your favorite meal card puncher was, Tish or Steve. Standing in the College Center I asked 17 5 students and am proud to say that you have desigllated Tisb as Tbe Meal Card 'Pullcher of the Yem. Tisll Steve 104 71 Collgntulations to both of you foo ~oing such fine work. ECina's Top Ten Last Friday the Union College· Board of Trustees met to disc11ss whatever it is that they (ji:souss. This was a supp()sed to be a very important meeting, but I happe11e:d to overhear SDme of what 'W~S said. Here a1e the Top T'e11 things overheard at last Fdlay's Trustee meeting: 10 . .,.,'li/e've raised tuition and forced ·them to live on campus- what eLse can we do to play with the:ir minds?\ 9. \Let's vote- peper.oni, sausage;. or plain?'' 8. \Hellot ... Tiuuik You! .• .Helloi ... Thank You!\ 7. \Hey who spiked the punch'?\ 6. \.J-Iease Mr. President, put y()lll' pants back on!\ 5. \Eeerrun!\ 4. ··what do you tllink of startinl! a Branch Davidian Sect right ·llere at Union? You know- oocial alternetives.\ · 3. '\Hey- dont forget · Secretaries Week, make sure you keep your little wench happy.\ 2. ••:s:oy- this Concorrliensis sure llas gone down bill.'• 1. \'No! Mr. Maranville, you can't IJorrow a dollar md No! you ca!k't have your job back.\ Crack Hall of Fame Non!l and Cliff. These two men h~ve together marle the average person feel good about themsel-ves every Thursday for the past 12 years. They are weird Men, and for that they shall be 3Cknowledged. Student of The Week Melissa Weiner win.s this week for wanting so desperntely to be in the Crack Hall ()f Fame that she glued feathets to her arms and attempted to fly off of tile top oftheNdt. Mars Needs. Women ~ . - ' ' . and Featur~s . . . . · .Needs .. an·.·.·.·· ', ,: ' ko (e<;h; Comp;W!d Tal'en 0~ bci -tht lt)(o.S funj«S Tht e.toJ Vol c.-e. .. 'Do.v 1c1 H~d ·•• : ••Illterview.er .·· .· · call · ·· 4040~ ~---·- --------- . i . I ·.~ ~;

l I .J ·' I Wlr dbtttOlr:b irn.si.s Singles: Stand Up and Be Counted Micb.elle Rosenbaum Features Writer Warning: This article i, by a single person for single people. If you have a boyfriend or girlfriend;. don't break up with him or her because of this. You'Fe very lucky to ha:ve someone. I just wanted to give some advice to those singles out there!: 1 am not bashing couples! We're constantly reading articles about boyfriends and girlfriends, long distant relationships, love, couples, etceteras. lt's time we begin to think of those of us who are single and happy! When you're in college there is so much pressure to want a true companioll. It's a greatthing to have. You no longer have to feel lonely. There~s s&meone there to laugh with, cry with and fight with! Especially in the spring, when \love is in the air,\ we all want a boyfriend or girlfriend to \enjoy life with.\ Believe -it or not, all you depressed ones out there, more than half of college st~dents are single and there are many advantages! First of all, think about when you are at a party. You can talk to anyone you want without IJaving to worry that someone is jealous! People of the opposite sex WC)n\t be intimidated to talk to you since they won't have a fear about being killed for it. You can smile at whoever you want and you can dance with whoever you want ... no worries! It may be dangerous when alcohol is involved, but just go with a trusting group of friends, and leave with those same friends. You've been warned about that many times already! Being single is also a feeling of independence. If you don't want to be around any()ne, it's okay. There isn't any pressure to see someone all the time. As a result you can be with all c ·- .0 :J 0:: .c 0) ·- CD ....J >-· OJ Creators Synclcate, :In:. 0 1993 Leigh Rublnf \ \ different people and never get sick of anyone. You don't have to wait for anyone to walk with to classes and you don't have to feel bad for seeing a movie with your friends. You can do everything on your own, but if you want to be with people you can. We all.have enough stress as it is with classes, sports, jobs, friends, and parents. Who needs an extra worry? Having a boyfriend or girlfriend may simply be an extra person to fight with. It's another one who you have to worry about hurting his or her feelings. It's another person to buy gifts for when you have no idea what to get. More holidays you have to celebrate, like Valentine's Day, and Anniversaries. Some couples have weelcly anniversaries. It's a great way to spend more money we don't have. No, I'm not saying it's bad to have a boyfriend or girlfriend in college. Believe me if I had someone to treat me great, to go to parks with, to watch the sunset with, to talk with and simply to be happy with I would definitely be a \happy camper.\ We all would. I just think that those single ones out there do have things to be happy about. You definitely do not need a boyfriend or girlfriend to have a good ti.Ine. The right person will come someday. I know we have all heard that way too many times, but it is true. There is someone there for everyone. It just might take longer for some of us to find him or her than others. While you are single, enjoy it- to an extent. Go out on dates, when asked, talk, smile at and dance with whoever you want. College years are the ones to enjoy. Don't lose that chance! Being single is definitely not as bad as it seems. Be happy with yoorself, people will see it, and maybe you won't be single anymore! Vl$itors often enjoyed the petrified prehistoric wonders of Dinosaur Dung National Park. FEATURES April 22, 1993, page 13 ROOMATE LOVE Alexis Leist Features Writer This article is dedicated to my roommate: I will never forget the frrst. time I spoke to my roommate. She called me over the summer and we spoke for about forty- five minutes. Just from talking to her I thought \Wow we are so different, I really h<lpe we get along!\. I was really nervous. I mean, she was from Massachusetts and I'm from New York (two states which I've realized are worlds apwt). She taalks like this and I tawk like this. We were worlds apart, or so it seemed. But hey, everyone kept telling me \that's OK, you are not supposed to be best-friends with your roommate, you only have to live with. her\ So I figured I could handle it. I tllougbt that I would have my own group· of friends and she would have hers. When I got here my tlloughts were confirmed. We were so di-fferent! But I was stupid, I was only looking at tile outside and not the inside. Our tastes in music were completely -different. The clC)thes we wore were completely different. The places we were from were completely different. I was scared .• because I thought we would never see eye to eye and living together would be hard. The first term everythi~g went well. We talked when we were in the room. Nothing de~p or meaningful, just your usual \How was your day?\ kind of thing. When we were outside of the room, I had my friends and she had hers. I don't know how it came about, but I guess just living with someone forces you to talk seriously. We started to get to ·]mow each other. Just from the pictures up around our room or other mementos, we would ask each other questions. Pretty soon she knew my whole Hfe story, and I basically knew lhers. Yet,. our friendship still remained in the confines ()four room. Olice outside, no one would have guessed we were friends. As time goes on, I found that I can turn to my roommate when I have problems. If I have problems with my friends I can talk to her about it, b-ecause she isn't involved. She gives me an objective p-oint of view. Likewise, when sl!e has problems she can come to me for the same. From our late night, philosophical discussions it has become apparent that we felt the same way about many things (like, we both need lots of sleep). I h.ave yet to find an issue where we disagree. She knows I'm stubborn when it comes to ctCrtain things and always helps me curb my ways (sometimes). It's amazing how two people who couldn't be more different on the outside tllflled out to be sc alike on the inside. I never thought it would happen, but it did. Even if we just sit around and watch TV, ()r we listen to music (about which we do still disagree) it's comfortable. She has gotten to :know some of my friends, and I have gotten to know hers. People still can't believe how close we have become! Now. I know to those people who have roommates from heU this may sound kind of stnnge, but it's not. You have to go deeper than outside a]Jpearances. I think there is ne better way to do that than living with someone. I'm !(){}Sitive I get on her nerves sornetime, and sometimes she gets on mine, but basically we have fun. It's just nice to know that she'll always be there to talk to, and when she goes away it gets really quiet! Sure, we have our ups and downs, but we never take it out on each other, because that would make living toge~her hard. If this sounds weird, it is, because from the beginning I just thought sfle would be a person that I \lived\ with and not a friend. I'm really glad she's both. . . ' King Crossword . _ . ACROSS I' 12 13 1. Word with sister or story ~I' . 4. King topper 7. Be thrifty 8. Unrefined 10. Took part in a drama 11. Like a gull 13. Seafood specialties 16. N.E. cape 17. Reason 18. Narrow inlet 19. Comic theatrical sketch 20. Like some cheeses 21.-Pie baker's pride 23. Martin and Astor ,, 25. Ark . i . passenger 26. ·~Two Years Before the -\ 27. River island 28. Invaders of Spain 30. Health resort 33. They complement 13 Across 36. Hams it up · 37. Rhythmic cheers 38. ••All-\ (Berlin ballad) !10 113 116 jl7 lh'YI m 1'9 122 25 127 m ~ 133 134 1111 B . 39. -Wiesel 40. Hesitant sounds 41. June b.pnoree DOWN 1. Rich fabric 2. Cook's need 3. Adorns 4. Spirited steeds 5 . .. The- of the Mummy's Tomb~· 6. Blue-pencil the copy 7. Scrutinize 8. Politi cal power 14 11 114 I 26 9. Potential forces 15 124 ~ 137 39 41 10. \I - Camera\ 12. Iroquois Indians· 14. Cafe au- 15. Woeful 19. Aggregate 20. Painting, sculpture, etc. 21. Reprove mildly 22. Jerusalem thorn 23. Trading center 16 9 ,1 .. 115 118 18888 20 ·~ [) 31 135 24. Made an attempt 25. Cebine monkey 32 26. Largest deer 28. Boat or bike lead-in 29. Unwra~ 30. Not hollow 31. Soccer great 32. Beast of burden 34. Ending for pigeon or button 35. Membrane

April22, 1993, page 14 FEATURES Troubles in the .Air • Ill Our Quaint Little Town Continued from last week by Jennifer Unterberg Concordiensis Writer Perceiving Union Students as receiving finances from their parents, residents may expect the students to regard everything as free and resort to stealing if money is unavailable. unwilling to earn an income through work. Comments made by Schenectady residents seemed to discredit the intellectual merit of Union Students. their attendance credited to their affluence. \Why is their such ·a negative generalization of Union students,\ I asked an employee at a hotel. ''It's human nature,\ she said,\ and 'what bites sticks.\' Exaggerated stereotypes and negative feelings held by the residents have been formed from various incidents \One time a girl came in and said 'Oh, that's just what I want to do, work at- (name of business)- my whole life!\ Not only do Union students promote negative stereotyping, but their parents, as well. An employee at a \local hotel describes, \One time a banquet was put on for a student by his parents. They obviously had spent a lot of money. everything was 'top shelf. The banquet coordinator asked the ·mother how it was. The mother turned to her and said, 'well, it's certainly not the Waldorf!'\ What she said was really biting, the coordinatm took a lot of pride in it. Who is to blame for such bitterness against the Union students. Can blame be placed on the Union students who are perceived as acting \cold\ and \aloof' by treating residents like \service\? Or can the blame be placed on the ~lchenectady residents for forming stereotypes based on an individual behavior, and relying on preconceptions. The manager at one business claimed, \A lot of the employees have preconceptions of the Union students. They think they're· all from Rock Island and they're snotty. etc. If you expect something you look for it. When I started working here they all told me 'wait until the Union students get here.' I think the main reason the employees don't like the Union students is because they have preconceptions. If you're told something, you'll often times think it.\ Targeting one group as the cause of this tension is difficult, for the existing hostility is due to an array of factors, formed by two variables, classism and urbanism. The majority of students attending Union College belong to the middle and upper class; where as the majority of Schenectady employees belong to the working class. Arriving at restaurants in large groups and treating the employees like service, Union students may exacerbate t!he situation. ·Finally, Union students may, indeed. \blame the victim\ and perceive the residents as failures and bums. Many Union students described the residents of Schenectady as \dirty\. \unintelligent\, and \lazy\. \They see us all in ·:Jur uniforms and they automatically assume that all we do is work here full time. They don't realize that we go to school at night or have other part time jobs.\ said another employee. A large number of the students come from metropolitan cities, such as New York City and Boston. Can blame be placed on the Union students, who are perceived as acting \cold\ and \aloof' by treating residents like service? Or can the blame be placed on Schenectady residents ... When these students were told of the employees complaints of the student's .aloofness, their response was \but that's how I treat waitresses at home, and that's how I was· treated when I waitressed.\ Conflicts arise due to the Schene.ctady residents having different expectations of interactions. One of the major complaints expressed by the residents is the tendency for Union students to treat them like service, and to only speak to them when placing an order. Schenectady residents engaged in more personal conversations. For instance, when placing an order, a woman asked, \is that too much trouble?\ When Union students order a complex dish, rarely do they concern themselves with the efforts of the employee. Further evidence of the Schenectady resident's expectation of (nteractions beyond their roles was found at a mall five minutes outside of Schenectady. The mall's food court attracts many people from various areas and various schools. When asking an employee of one of the restaurants whether he could point out a typical Union College student, he responded, \I can only point a Union students if he is wearing a Union jacket, or something that says Union on it. There are so many kids here.\ The employee at another restaurant, however. could describe a typical Union student and regarded their behavior as ••cold\ and \snotty\. Interestingly. this employee grew up in Schenectady. Although Schenectady appreciates Union Col'lege's reputation, as well as the student's contribution to the economy, the majority 0f the residents within the same age bracket as the Union students. who must work in establishments which U11ion students spend time in, feel hostile and negative towards their interactions. As qtLoted by a non-resident of Schenectady, \They {the business .establishments) need Union students, but they dread them.\ Union students must be made aware of the effects of their behavior on others and the sensitivity of Schenectady employees. The student body must cease the tendency to 'blame the victim' and acknowledge the reality of unequal distribution of resources in this country. Union students must put aside ethnocentrism, and respect the expectations of the reside~tts of Schenectady, engaging in more personal conversations with the employees. The administration at Union must take on a responsibility, as well. Speaking to Schenectady residents at a Union hockey game , positive feelings towards Union and the athletic teams prevailed. \''We love the games,\ one W()man exclaimed, \I hear this school is really good. It's great! We love coming here!\ An officer expressed, \Union's a very - good school and the sports are ranked nationally. The people are proud.\ A Union College al11mni explained such positiveness, \Everyone is positive because everyone loves sports, it's because everyone can do it and everyone can cheer on the same team. It doesn't matter if you make $10,000 or $500, you can still root for the same team.\ The men and women at the Union .hockey games voluntarily came in to contact with Union students. The perception of the interaction was positive, suggesting that an increase in Union College's Union students must be made aware of the effects of their behavior on others and 'the sensitivity of Schenectady employees activities open to the town of Schenectady, promoting an increase in voluntary contact with the students, ceuld alleviate hostile feelings and improve relations. Schenectady employees complained that U11ion students \come in hoards and take over the place.\ This perception could be a result of an unequal sharing of space. Union students spend time in Schenectady, yet many residents feel unwelcome at Union. The barrier between The student body must cease the tendency to 'blame the victim'' . and acknowledge the reality of unequal distribution of . resources in this country .. Union CoUege and Schenectady II:IUSt be broken. Looking back on the newspaper I rec.eived the summer before my Freshman year, I realize its bias. Schenectady residents were never asked what they ,thought t~e best view of a Union students was. If they had been, the answer might have been, \the student's back, as he leaves Schenectady\ Through improved relations and an understanding of one another, attitudes can change. Not only can the best view of Schenectady move to the front window of a Union student's car, but the best view of a Union student can move to the front; both groups looking forward to coming into Schenectady and interacting with one another. A special thank you to Professor George Gmelch and his Urban Anthrqpology course for allowing us to explore the many dimensions of urban life. ·Baxte.r Black at Union by Michelle R()Seobaum Concordiensis Staff Many of us (lnjoy poetry, whlle other enjoy Westerns. Imagine combinimg the two! Baxter Black is one of the many \Cowboy Poets\ who believes that he makes his living writing poetry. Dressed in \Cowboy\ attire with his silver and gold belt and his \western\ accent, Baxter tried to illustrate the differences between the East and the West. He explained these differences with poems, leaving the audience in hysterics. One distinction he emphasized was the rodeo. He used to ride bul~s in college, but he didn't enjoy it much. Imagine Bull ridi:ng at Union! Now, his favorite hobby is roping. Believe it or riot Black started out as a Veterinarian. (This gives us all hope that it is possible to cha11ge majors!) Born in New Mexico, he always had a lcve for ranch animalS, especially cattle. He was always the funny, talkative guy teUing stories on the ranch .. The cowboys he met at the ranch were his first inspiration. He writes a weekly column for \The Pelican Farm News,\ and other farmer magazines and journals. Tlie majority of his poems are h11morous, yet many are about controversial issues. He began his show by claiming \this will not be . educational,\ yet he proved himself wrong. His poem about Yellowstone National Park fire made the audience realize how important fire fighters are and how much destruction one frre can do. Why would a cowboy form Colorado come all the way to Schenectady, New York? His reply wasn't because of the great town of Schenectady, nor the beauty of Union's campus. He claimed that he met President Hull and his wife at a two dollar window at the Kentucky Derby and the President was broke, he asked Black if he could borrow .some money, and later invited him to Union for his generosity. The truth of the matter is that · President Hull invited him since Mrs. Hull knows Baxter Black. Union is one of the hundred trips he makes per year to perform. Out of these he also appeared on Johnny Carson. Writing with his left hand since, \he gave his right arm to be ambidextrous,\ he has written more than sixty poems. \Coyote Cowboy Poetry\ and \Croutons on a Cow Pie Volume II\ are two of his books. As U.S.A. Today. wrote, \He aims for the funny bone ... makes you forget your troubles.\ He did this at Union and hopefully he will return. Meet Jolin Se6astian ! SatutdayJ .9-Lprif 24 2:00 p!Jv[ The former leader of the Lovin' Spoonful will sign · copies of his new children's picture book, J.B.'s Harmonica. %e open -1Joor a. un.iqt&£. 1Jookstore 128·136 Ja.y St. ~owntown. Sdienec:tm!y 518·346-2719\ - -

<illir (l111nrvrb irn.sis CAMPUS BULLETIN BOARD April22, 1993, page 15 CULINARY EXPOSE IN HONOR OF HISPANIC/LATINO HERITAGE MONTH UPPER CLASS DINING HAIJL APRll.. 23, 1993 5:30PM ' THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT and llnton ctoll:eg~e jfacuttp Colloqu:Lu1u · MENU DEPARTMENT of VISUAL ARTS ROBERTSHARLET PROFESSOR OF POLffiCAL SCIENCE Russian ·Constitutiotial Crisis: . . Can Collapse· be Averteil? THURSDAY, MAY 13, 1993 AT 4:3@ P.M. COLLEGE CENTER A UDITORJUM COFFEE & 17EA AT 4:00 P.M. ALL ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND AP·P.ETIZER Fried Cheese \Palitos\ Patacones (Green Plantain Chips) SALAD Ensalalia de Aguacate ENTREES Pernil Paella ala Vaienciana Serviche de Camarones DESSERT Que:.illo de Pina llEVE'RAGES Pina Colada Coffee Soda No Charge to Union College Students on the Meal Plan $13.00 to Union College Community $16.00 for General Public Admissions Sign Op 48 hours in advance at Dutch Hollow Re;taurant- 2-4 PM and 7~9 PM Upperclass or West Dining Hall - Lunch or Dinner Times Dining Services ()ffice - 8:30 AM-5:00PM Telepohone- 370-6050 \BE WAR'NED: What de these pe()ple sl1are in common? It's not for the prudish or faint.;hearted. A sizzler.\ ·Susan Granger, WICC/AMERICANMOVIEC:LASSICS Q 1992 M[lii0-GQ!~·M .. \1R ll'ot .oJ[~o;.·(~ln'liRd di11••buud bv MCWlli\ Elie Wiesel Mother Teresa RlgobertaMenchu Nelson Mandella See next week's Concordiensis for the an::swer becl!llso an important e11ent is coming to Unlonlll!!!l! '.I;'HINK SCHENECTADY NEEDS IMPROVEMENT? Do you think it should be more responsi'l7e to the needs of Union College and our students? r· ' Present Method and Meaning • ~n Biological Illustration (A Demonstrated Talk using Living Birds) International Society of Animal Artists (Vice-President) and The Guild of Natural Science Illustrators (Smithsonian Institute Washington, D.C.) 4:40 P.M. Thursday May 6th, 1993 College Center Auditorium Refreshments at 4:30 Yaisawarng Review Professor Yaisawarng is undergoing .a reappointment review. Students, administrators, and faculty are invited to submit statements to Professor Schmidt, Economics Department, ·regarding Professor Yaisawarng's teaching, scholarship, and college service. .. KIRTANA A Concert of South lnd1an Classical Muslc May to, 1993 01d Chapel 8:00 Schenectady is currently keeping Union students from having a full impact on i local policies by denying you your right to register to vote in Schenectady .co- sponsored by Shaktl and the Department of PerformlntJ Arts county. We want to challenge this action in the courts, but we need your rormorelnformatlonpleasecontactRupa~386~088 help. Call Mary at 6607 if you would be willing to assist us in this fight. A ReappointmenPReview Committee has been set up for Professor Karl DeJesus from the Department of Chemistry. The committee consists of Professors Janet Anderson, Charles Scaife (Chair), and John Sowa, The college community is invited to provide evaluation of teaching, scholarship, and college service of Professor DeJesus by submitting a statement in writing to Professor Scaife. ******ANNOUNCEMENT****** The Block U Award Dinner will be held Wednesday May 19, 1993 Athletes, MUST p_ick up your tickets at the Alumni Gym by :May 14, 1993 No one will be admitted without a ticket 1993 SENIOR GIFT + UNION COLLEGE '93 SENIOR ClASS GIFf FUND RUN Thursday April 22nd Members of the Senior Gill Committee & Union Track will be teaming up f9[ this year's Fund Run: Committee members will be calling for pledges to the Senior Class Gift Drive. A runner from the Track team will be at your door ready to hand deliver your pledge!

April22, 1993, page 16 CAMPUS NEWS QTht aL.onrorbirnsi.s PER!iOI\IAL!i M:y dearest Jody. I cannot get yow ont of my cerebral cage. Wfuen l go to bed with my wife, I only moan \Jody JGdie~ Jodee\. Social barriers sepamte ns, but love bounds e-vell tbe highest walls. With Adoration, A.F. Pledges of Delta Phi: FeUow pledges., we wish y<>u the best in your passage to Brotherhood. Remember, you can always ccme to us for support. not n-ecessarily as pledge brothers, but as ~pals. We love you guys. TFA, The pledges of Psi Upsilon To the brothers orf 1beta Delta Chi: We had a \rockin\' good time at Southern Rock. Let's do it again sometime. The sisters of Delta Gamma Mr. Madras Jacket: What time do w.:e tee off? Pam: Thanks so much for everything. I'm ~oing to miss you next year! -Deb R.K. No matter what ~ think, you were screandng sex. on Sarurday night!!! - your se:cret admirer Eddie: Intoxication, Regurgitatiw.. Recooperat!Qn. . I:IA!i!iiFIED§ Medical Director Needed S1l.fllmer Day Camp· Mnst be licensed nurse or EMT. Flex hours. Call 374-9:800 Water Safety Instructor Needed Summer Day Camp- Must be 21+ years. FullTime. Call374- 9800. . . .¢RUISE-JCJBS - __ Students Needed! Earn $2,000+/mon1h working for Cruise Ships and Tour Companies. Holiday, Summer and Full-Time employment availab[e. For lnio. call: Cruise Emplo1f\'e\t Seroices (206) 634-0468 ext. CSI88 CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT now hiring students. $300/$900 wkly. Summer/Fall Time. T-ow- Guides, Gift Shop Sales, Deck Hands, Bartenders,. Casino Dealers, Etc. World Travel-Caribbean, Alaska, Europe, Hawaii. No experience necessary. Call 1- 800-602-6803 Ext. 23. SCHOLARSHIPS! H GRANTS!!! LOANS!!! All students qualify! ·Call or write today! COL-MON-DAT Data Research Center P.O. Box 2336 Red Bank, N.J. 077~ 1 (908) 219-6742 FOR SALE: Single Bed Excellent condition Low PFice call 3 72-0136 COLLEGE STUDENT SURVEY ON SEX. Nationwide, written survey. Total confidentiality assured (no phone calls, no names) All Union students urged to participate. For questionnaires, write: Student Enterprises, Suite 760, 405 Tarrytown Rd., Whlte Plains, NY 10607. Heading for EUROPE this summer? Only $169!! Jet there anytime for only $169 with AIRHITCH! (Rep()rted in Let's Go! and NY Times) Califoniia-$129 each way. AIRHITCH 212-864-2000 GREEKS&. CLUBS · . $1,000 AN HOUR! Each member of your frat sorority. team. club. etc .. pitches in just one holJr and your group can .r~ise $1.000 in just a few days! Plus a chance to earn $19000 for yourself! No rosl. No obligation. _ 1~800-932-0528. exl. 65 r ~ Earn :$500 · $1 000 weekly stuffing envel10pes. For details - RUSH $ 1 .00 with SASE to: GROUP FIVE 57 'Greentree Drive, Suite 307 Dover, DE 1990 1 ~ ~· NEED EXTRA CASH??!! WE ARE LOOKING FOR STUDENTS WHO WANT TO EARN SOME FUN, EASY MONEY! STUDENTS WHO WOULD LIKE ro woRK oN ReU.N:roN WEEKEND - MAv 21sT, 22ND, Et 23RD. Pl:.E.ASE STOP BY THE ALUMNI OFFICE OR CALL ALISON OR :PEG AT X6168. Apr 22- Th.ursday 8:00 'PM Old Chapel: Film Premiere \Within Reach\ Apr 23- Friday 5:30PM UGOH: Hispanic Heritage Culinary Expose Apr 24- Saturday 8:00 PM & 10:00 PM CCAUD: Film-Body of Evidence 9:00PM Chet's: 10¢ Wings· 8:00 PM & 10:00 PM CCAUD: Film-Body of Evidence 9:00 PM Chet's 8:00 PM Coffeehouse @ Fero: Nuclear Headings 10:00 PM OLD CHAPEL: SCREAM PRESENTS TECHNO RAVE Apr 25 - Sunday 8:00 PM & i 0:00PM CCAUD I :00 PM Men's Lax vs. 81 Lawrence Rim-Body ofEvidence Apr 26- Monday . Student Forum Election Petitions Due Apr 27 -Tuesday _ 3:00 PM Softball vs Binghamton Apr 28- Wednesday 3:30 PM Men's Lax vs. Albany 8:00 PM & 10:00 SS016: Oooma Paradiso Apr 29 - Thursday 3:00 PM Softball vs. Albany Apr 30 - Friday Student Forum Elections -VOTE!! 1 :00 PM Baseball vs. Hobart 8:00PM & 10:00 PM CCAUD:Distinguished Gentleman May 1 - Saturday 8:00 PM & 10:00 PM CCAUD:Disti111guished Gentleman 8:00 PM Coffeehouse @ Fero 8:00PM & 10:00 PM CCAUD. . ' Rim-Body of Evidence 9:00PM Olels 7:30 PM Fero: Crosstalk -Men & Women @ Union 9:00 f=?M Coffeehouse @ Fero 8:00PM CCAUD:Tom Panroa-Gays in the Military 9:00 PM O!et's 7:00PM CCAUD: Visual Arts -Andres Serrano 9:00 PM Olefs 8:00 PM Perf. Arts Studio: . A Night of Sce1 9:00 PM Olers 1 0:00 PM UCDH: Jam Party (Hispanic Heritage Mo.) 9:00PM Achilles Rink: ~~screaming Trees\ Concert To lnclu<Je your events, attend Programrnln!J, mee11ngs Mondays @ 4:30 In CC410. This calender Is current as of 4/20'~ ' Beco,me A Mentor Clip this form out and send it to Mia Caetano-Box #337 or call 372-3534 for more information. Name ------------------------- Box# ________________________ _ Tele# ________________________ _ Year ___ ~---------------------- A cornm~ttee is pLanning a reappointment review of R. Alan B~wman, AssJ.stan~.Professor. Statements from students, faculty and staff re9'ard~ng Pt:of. Bowman's teaching, scholarship or · college serv~ce may be s.ent to Prof. James Larnbrinos, chair, Graduate Management Institute. · - - ... b p p b k b a A g n \' fj t]

Q!hr QLntirDr:birnsis ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Apri122, 1993, page 17 A Decent by Tho~ Benander Movie Critic Okay-, how do I defend my position on Indecent Proposal? Basically, it's been getting bashed by every known critic in the universe, but wl!at good are critics anyway? Hell, Raising Arizona arid Stealing Home got flayed too. there are a number of excellent qualities which I, and I'm sure any random hallucinogenic rutabaga would pick up; But now I've forgotten them :aU because I was talking to Alex Kreisler and Eric Weinberger and in his words \It was the worst movie I've ever seen.\ How depressing. Why did I like this movie so much? I was raving about it: Damn. Serioas movie reviewer insecudty complex. How is it that I could like it and Eric hate it? We have a lot in common. I get along with Eric great. Hell- we're both tall, dark and handsome. Okay, okay. We're both dark. Wltat did it for me was the cinematography, shots of roulette balls bouncing around. slow rolls of pool balls, reflections in a tea kettle, and Redford flipping $10,000 chips. Aaaaaaah. I liked the writing as well, except. for a cliche, predictable cheez-wiz- abounding exchange about loving each other, \Did I ever tell you that I loved Proposal you?\ \No.\ \I love you.\ \Still?\ . \Always.'' Just a smidgeon too <~airy for me, Too nnany individually wrapped siqgles. Too much velveeta. But.:[ did like the. writing. Dir-ector Adrien Lyne did an excellent · job ·casting as well. I mean. can act. It's probably d11e to a lingering desire .of mi:ne to -·be an engaging, calcutating billionaire, but he was it. Okay, Okay - I got .it. It was a very \movie\ movie. That is to .say that it worked' within the bo!lnds: of Hollywood Happyland. Basically, it only happells in the movies - but it was okay. I was titillated, involved. l liked th.e characters, I liked the ridiculous plot. I liked Redford, I loved· the cinematography, and I liked the whoie movie and lets face it, in this day and age, who wouldn't have sex. with a beau~iful, powterful stranger for a million bocks? That's it - it had closure~ a splendidly wrapped pockage of ritz~bits and Harn().llfger Helper. I'm probably jwst so involved in wrapping liP my own soon to be previewed movie (plug) that I appreciate a weil deve:loped whole, a mix of Laconic and Lucollan, testifying t.o the creative majesty of Tinsletown. Out on a limb ...... A-. Everyday Heroes and Heroines Collrtesy Russel Sage College \Girl you don't know H&w lucky you are Y Du got food on your table Arld a cute foreign car You've got a roof over your head and a dry place to sleep You better wipe that sorry look up off your face Ca11se in the wink of an eye girl you could be me\ -From \Girl You Don't Know\ With these words from her newest album, Everyday Heroes and Heroines, Deidre McCalla delivers a wake up call to Americans. Her third and most political album, Her()ines beckons listeners to take up arms against the apathy that tends to permeate society. M11ch of today's music contains similar messages of social and political consdousness. But McCalla's lyrics offer her audience a new twist: optimism. Though her album often paints a powerful portrait of tears and tmnoil, it is also seasoned by her positi:ve outlook, which celebrates love and unity. McCalla's optimism . . separates her from man;:y of the \everyday heroines\ wllich adorn today's music scene. For McCalla is not an evel)'day heroine. In her music, she speaks ftom a self-procilaimed \African-American lesbian prospective.\ In the music industry, dominated br straight white men, this is not a perspective which is tY'}lically accepted or even acknowledged. Yet with the universal themes and uncompromising vision of her albums, McCalla bas managed tc break thro11gh.the glass ceiling of the industry, winning several awards and national praise. Deidre McCalla is n.-ow sharing her vision on ~· 20 city tour ofthe U.S. Tickets are available at the Upton Center and at Boulevard Bookstore and Lifestyle Books in Altany. Call 270·2306 for more infonnation \Words and I -are not good friends at all, except with some people. The painter using the word often seems to me like a child trying to walk, I think I'd rather let the painting work for itself than help it with the word.\ -Georgia O'K·eeffe .•. ~@llff&lllfJ@ • LIJ:I t•l: K!I•l.! !:ttl~ D·E·P·A·R·T·M·E·N·T • O·F v~~~A~ .. Ar.rs 1111 ORES ERRANO P·H·O·T·O· G· R· A· P· H·E· R VISITING ARTIST LECTURE COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM ?PM ADMISSION FREE • PUBLIC INVITED Courtesy of Visual Alts Photographer Andres Serrano, visiting artist comes to Union College. The lecture is free and open to the public. Photographer, Andres Serrano will present a lecture addressing issues in contem}X>rary photography on April29, 1993, College Center Auditorium, 7:00pm. Serrano, whose work has become associated with .issues of freedom of expression and censorship~ will discuss his large scale photography and the issues which he addresses through this medium. Serrano's most recent work focuses on imagery oftlle dead, as found in an urban morgue, documenting the macab1·e, violent and sometimes gruesome ways in which people die. Disturbing,. troubling , sometimes poignant and strangely beautiful, this work touches the viewer in unpredictable and powerful ways. Serrano's imagery raises questions about violence and visual imagery. It forces us to consider the effects and the nature of death in reality as opposed to the way in which death is presented in the media. Union Arts Departments Presents: Scroll of the Passeggi.ata Arche~logica Courtesy of Visual Arts Courtesy of Performing Arts A suite of twelve drawing made in careful facsimile of and antique book known as the Scroll of the Passeggiata Archeolica is on display in the Social Science Faculty Lounge. Professor Steckler of the Performing Arts Department uncovered the variegated sheets in 1986 while researching a dramatic text in translation. languages and illustrated with myriad diagrams, maps, and drawings, appears to be the story of a scholar's frustrated effcrts to understand and translate and arcane manuscript of frequently overlapping events. \Tlte coincidences are quite something,\ marvels Steckler. Tile scroll will remain on view through June 13. Tht exhibit is free and open to the public. The opening reception of the Annual Juried Undergraduate Visual Arts Exhibition will be held on Thursday, April22, l<.l93, 4:00-5:30 pm in the Arts Atrium. This celebration for all students participation in Visual Arts classes tilis year coincides with the Steienmetz Symposium. The exllibition includes work in all media; painting, drawing, sculpture, . photography, 3-D design, 2-D design and printmaking. The scroll, written in five CI-JET 1 S CoRNER Chet's would like to announce that from now on Thursdays and MoRdays will be 10 cent wing nights. And, of course, Happy Medium will continue every Friday starting at 4-pm. This week Chet's will be open for it's regular scheduled hours ... Thursday (tonight), Friday, Monday, and Wednesday. Please come share the fun. Remember ... you don't have to be 21 to enjoy the entertainment at Chet's! SENIORS ... bewMe .. check your maiL.now more than ever ... Chet's will be sending all seniors Chet's very own coupons for free Chet's prizes ... watch for details. Look forward to the weekend of May 7th and 8th. May 7th Wok The Dog will be performing from 2pm until 7pm outside Chet's while the residents of WEST COLLEGE ... as well as others ... enjoy free food. May 8th gospel and choir will be having a reception at Chet's from 3:30pm until 6:30pm. Please come to Chet's meetings Thursdays at 4pm with suggestions/comments. If seniors would like to host a party please contact Lee Popper for details. Have a HAPPY NIGHT. .and enjoy our happy medium tomorrow night ..• free food!

. lie.. ... c ... \This is just a scooper. Wait'll you see the dog!\ W14AT A CUTE \BABY PIC'TUR5 ot= R::>F'EVG .' PCPE'iE SAID F\S:R 7'A -ro WAIT/ BRINGING UP FATHER by FRANK JOHNSON l'M ~ L-ITfLE WHY DOt-!'1'{00 NEi<VoJJS ABOLJf L.e.~ /A. LITTl ... E f AGKIN6 1!4e 6?ee04 -60 YOlJ f eoGS FOR Wll.t.. !<NOW ii />. RAl6e! Wt-41>.1\ 1b 6/J..Y.' ~~~~------------------~----------; ''FOtJ~~ AND 5EVSN '/eARG 1'60.~'- • \?e!Jt'll6· -rn~~ ()i!I\IIOUS AGE.·O\~CE, DAVS . •. .~W\7 1-\\S ~ GI~END, \'f\PF~I( 'CO \-\1\~ ON~ . · \@lNG \N CO~N: . ~ U>'JE oF O'ILJ>..N 'TRI./IN' TA PIAPE'R A SQU IRMI~', CSPINACH- EATlN; SI')( ... MONTH-OL'D 9A9'7 WOULD SCARE A GORILLA! Vision Teaser · · Sf liog ·g 'ipellull\(.) 51 8W'IiN '5 'IUQIGII!P S! 1! !WCJO '?; 'I»CJJMJ If IV~ · ~ :saaui!JallicJ - -

SPORTS April22, 1993, page 19 Photos of the Week President's · Cup Regatta photo by Josh Haines . Nadine Filosi starts the 4Xl00 meter race ~--------------~---= by Steve Mooar Contribllting Writer The Third Annual Presi€enfs Cup Regatta was held at U11ion College on Sunday, April 18th, The race features Union Col~ege and Hobart, William & Smith in head-to-Jtead competition. Last year the races were split evenly between *e two colleges with Onion winning the novice men,. s and varsity women's events. This years competition began at high noon with the varsity men's open eigh~ race. Union had difficulty condng to the line, forcing the race ,t<> be delayed whHe the men spent some time on the muddy shore emptying water out (}f the boat. This did not lower the intensity of the rowers as the race lived up to its billing. The boats cruised down the 2000 meter course in under five minutes. Hobart was jus:t able to hold off a strong Union surge and win by two feel. Although the victory w11s by a small amount, it was e11ough for Hobart to carry mom~ntum through the next few races. Union's strong novice women's crew was unable to pull througiJ, the William & Smith women. The men's J.V. eight, men's novice eight, and women's varsity eight also fell to the Hobart and William & Smith Crews. It was the men's varsity lightweight four that ended the string ()( victories for Hobart. The men's four raised their record to 4-0 by sprinting out to a 32 second victory. This was t:be largest margin of victory of the season for the four and the largest for any Union shell. The lightweight men are steadily getting stron,ger and faster as they get warmed up for the New York State Championships and ·the Dad Vail Regatta. The Crew Team and Coacbi11g Staff would like to thank ali those that came down to suppcrt the team on Sunday. Union has placed one of its strongest teams in recent history on the water. This upward surge by the team was not ])Ossible without the support if Union's administration, staff, and student bOOy. Men's Tennis Falters Against Colgate by Christoph Ring'W.3ld Concordiensis Staff The men's tennis team (2- 2) had its two-game winning streak halted in an 8-1 loss t() Division-1 Colgate University (9-4) last Monday. Andy 8chwarz def<!ated Colgate's. Dave Fishberg 7-6 (7-4), 6-1 for Union's only win. In last week's action, Unioa recorded its first win (}[ the .season by blanking Utica 9-0. 1n their following contest, the team downed St. Rose 5-1 in a rain-sh()rtened match. \This team has come a long way siace the beginning of the season and I thiak that our young players are playing very well right now,\ Coach Jim Wilcon said. Uriion's next three matches, all away from home, are against Oneonta. Albany, and Hamilton on April 24, 26, and 28. ITH'S TENNIS CLASS BliCK II ANI) APPROACH When using !l backhand sli~e approach sh()t, try to stay side- ways to the ball as you prepare to hit. photo by Josh Haines ~~ I Play Better Golf with Jack Nicklaus VE OFTE:.N SOLVEO IEMPO PRoe.u:::Ms e't THINKING OF 5WINGING DOWN f\T IH~ SAME PACt= I - SWUNG f>FKK - Pf\RTICUL.ARL 'f AS I CHANGe: OIR\::CTION5. Oe::»VIOUSL'i..l IHI5 OOESN'I HNPPE~ - 1'Hi::: ()OWI'J SWING ALWA\YS t-JATURALL \7' HAPPENs f:ASIER lltAN IHE. e,AcKS.WlNG . eMr THINKING \SAME. PACG:\ ALL THE UJA't '' ._,ELPS 5MOO'TH . OUT Nl\-1 OVERALl TEMPo. SEE IF lT HELPS YOURS TOO. ' King F .. lules Synd.:ata. Inc: Wwld r9Na r•....-d.

Seth Rudin (leader) and Mitch Weisenberg in foortll Men'' s Trac·k Looks Strong in. Meet by Josh Haines Concordiensis Staff average 20 to 30 competitors in pouring rain, the distance each event, the results were runners made a good showing. good. Chuck C1ereci won the While the rain and lightening javelin tbrow with a toss of postponed many of the field 51.48 meters, and qualified for events until the next day, John States at the same time! Matt Metz bettered his previous Women's Track Tackles Albany l»y Tasha LaBare Contributing Writer She ran a 66 to win het heat. Liza was next on the track in the 1500~ Liza was a trooper running through the cold wind to finish in a time of 5:32. The union men's track team competed in the Albany invitational this past weekend. Traditionally this meet is one: of the more competitive meets of our regular season, and this year was no exception. Yet despite being a very young team, with fourteen freshmen, Union did rather well finishing ll'th out of 17 teams with 31 points. This is much better than last year's performance. All that training over the winter is finally paying off and we can expect to see stronger performances in the future. Johnson a rookie, finished 5000 meter time with a rooe of fortb in the same event, 17:17.9. On the track the next. thowing 49.04m, and day, after having his race This weekend, the women's track team travelled to SUNY Albany to tackle some pretty stiff cpmpetition and more rain. Lowie was the first Unionite to compere. Lori had a great day with the hammer, throwing 30.46 to PR and cornillg in 6th overall. She then moved into the discos circle to throw a 24.56 and placed 6th again. Carrie Gorfinkle was next on the track in the lOOm dash. Carrie had a great race. running a 14.7. Nadiae once again conquered the field in the lOOm hurdles. Nadiae broke her own school recor<l to place 5th overall with a 16.8. Nice job girly! Joy once again showed that she has what it takes to run the 400. The women then combined all of their winning efforts to run the 4x4 and 4xl. The 4xl was made uj) of Nadine, Tasha, Carrie,. and Joy. The women .came in Stll overall with a season's best of 54.8. Lastly, the 4x4 proved equally as fruitful for tile lady tracksters. This team consisted of Nadine, Tasha, Liz~ and Joy. We once again saw another seasons best, but this time a 4th place finish! You go girls!! Despite our small numbers and injured team mates\ the ladies fmished 12th out of 17 teams. Good luck to all the Girlies competing tltis Wednesday (at our very own Union College) and Friday at Hamilton. In the field, Union posted a good number of marks in the scoring range, which at this meet was the top eight places in each individual event. Considering there were on qualifying for states. Matt postponed, Adam Russell went Stern~ also a freshman, had a 25 laps around the track !() run very good meet jumping, lO,OOOm in 38:28. Later, RtJss plac:ing forth in the high jump Stram won his heat ()f the successfully clearing the bar at 800m with a time of 2:06.5, a six feet, four inches, also personal best. As far as relays qualifying for States. He also go, the Union A team of .the placed 6'th in the triple jump 4x800m, composed of Jon and 7'th in the long jump, Simon, Mike Leding, Russ jum-ping 41 feet and 20 feet 2 Stram, and Marc Sheridan inches respectively. In the placed 7'th with a seasonal best discus event Matt Johnson's time of 8:34.2! heave of 107 feet was good Overall this was a good meet enough for aPR. for a young team and A.s far as actual running, improvement can definitely be Union didn't fare as well, but expected in the futme. God there were some highlights. Bless you and thank y()n for On Friday night, despite your support! ---------------------------- BASEBALL 25 Utica {2) 30 HOBART (2) 1:00 ,.., 1:00 H HEAD COACH: GARY REYNOLDS HOMES GAMES ARE PLAYED AT SCHENECTADY'S CENTRAL PARK SOFTBALL 27 BINGHAMTON (2) 3:00 29 ALBANY (2) 3:00 MAY. 2 HARTWICK (2) 1:00 HEAD COACH: SUZANNE PEDONE WOMEN'S TRACK 30 CTC Meet @Trenton 5:00 MAY 1 CTC Meet @Trenton 9:00 H H H A A MEN'S TENNIS 26 Albany 28 Hamil1on 29 HARTWICK MAY 4 Williams 3:00 A 3:00 A 3:00 H 3:3.0 A 8 State Meet @ Albany 6:00 A HEAD COACH: JIM WILCON 9 State Meet@ Albany 9:00 A 14 UNION SPRING CLASSIC 5:00 H 15 ECAC Meet @ Tufts 3:00 A t6 ECAC Meet@ Tufts 10:00 A GOLF 26 DOMINICAN 1:00 H 30 Middle~ury 1:00 A HEAD COACH: DAVE HERRINGTON HEAD COACH: BILL SCANLON WOMEN'S LACROSSE 25 ONEONTA 27 Hartwick 4:00 H 3:30 A MAY 4 WILLIAMS 4:00 H HEAD COACH: CFIAR.L YN ROBERT MEN'S 'TRACK 30 CTC Meet@ Trenton 5:00 A MAY 1 CTC Meet @Trenton 9;00 A 8 State Meet @ Alllan-y 6:00 A 9 State meet@ Alban-y 9:00 A 14 UNION SPRING CLASSIC 5:00 H HEAD COACH: DAVE HERRINGTON . I

/------~ / \ '··-~-· 1 Seth Rudin Qeader) and Mitch Weisenberg in fourth Men's TraC'k Looks Strong • Meet lll· by Josh Haines Concordiensis Slcrff The union men's trade team C()lllpeted in the .A.lbany invitational this past \W-eekend. TI<~ditionally this meett is one. of the more competitiv e meets of our regular season, and this ye4L was no exception. Yet despite being a very young team, with fourteen freshmen, Uni()n did ra1her well fi11is.hing 11 'tb out of 17 teams with 31 p()ints. This is mu<h better tha11 last year's perf<Jrma:nce. All that training <lver the v;inter is finally paying off and v;e can expect to see stronger pe:rf<Jnnances in the futme. 111 the field. Unio11 posted a g()OO number of mark:s in the sc<>ring range, which at this meet was the top eigll t places in each individual event. Cormsidering there vrere on BASEEALL average 20 to 30 competitors in each event, the results were good. Chuck Clereci won the javelin throw with a toss of 51.48 meters, and qualified for States at the same time! Matt Johnson a rookie. finished forth in the same event, thowing 49.04m, and qualifying for states. Matt Stem, also a freshman, had a very good meet jumping. placing forth in the high jump successfully clearing the bar at six feet, four inches, also qualifying for States. He also placed 6'th in the triple jump and 7'th in the long jump, jumping 41 feet and 20 feet 2 inches respectively. In the discus event Matt Johnson's heave of 1 07 feet was good enough for a PR. As far as actual running, Union didn't fare as well, bul there were some highlights. On Friday night, despite SOFTBALL pouring rain, the distance runners made a good showing. While the rain and lightening postponed many of the field events until the next day, John Metz bettered his previous 5000 meter time with a race of 17:17.9. On the track the next day, after having his race Jl()Stponed, Adam Russell went 25 laps around the track to run lO,OOOm in 38:28. Later, Russ Stram won his heat of the 800m with a time of 2:06.5, a personal best. As far as relays go, the Union A team of the 4x800m, composed of Jon Simon. Mike Leding. Russ Stram, and Marc Sheridan :placed 7'th with a seasonal best time of 8:34.2! Overall this was a good meet for a young team and improvement can definitely be expected in the future. God Bless you and thank you for your support! Women's Tackles Track Albany by Tasha LaBare Contributing Writer This weekend, the women's track team travelled to SUNY Albany to tackle some pretty stiff competition and more rain. Lowie was the first Unionite to compete. Lori had a great day with the hammer, throwing 30.46 to PR and coming in 6th overall. She then moved into the discus circle to throw a 24.56 and placed 6th again. Carrie Garfinkle was next on the track in the lOOm dash. Carrie had a great race, running a 14.7. Nadine once again conquered the field in the lOOm hurdles. Nadine broke her own school record to place 5th overall with a 16.8. Nice job girly! Joy once again showed that she has what it tales to run the 400. She ran a 66 to win her he:.t. Liza was next on the track: in the 1500. Liza was a troo]Jer running through the cold wi11d to finish in a time of 5:32. The women then combi11ed all of their winning efforts to run the 4x4 and 4xl. The 4xo.l was made up of Nadine, Tash.a. Carrie, and Joy. The wolllen came in 8th overall with a season's best of 54.8. La~tl:y, the 4x4 proved equally as fruitful for the lady tracksters. This team consisted of Nadillie. Tasha, Liza.and Joy. We (}nr:::e again saw aiiother seasons b-est, but this time a 4th JJLace finish! You go girls!! DesJ)Lte our small numbers and injwed team mates. the ladies .finis bed 12th out of 17 teams. (}()od luck to all the Girlies competing this Wednesday (at our very own Union Colleg,e) and Friday at Hamilton. WOMEN'S LACROSSE 2 5 U\ic;J (2) 3-() HOBARt (2) 1:00 A 1:00 H HEAD COACH: GARV REYNOLDS 27 Slr-IGHAMTON (2) 29 A.LBANY (2) 3:00 H 3:00 H ~ 25 ONEONTA 27 Hartwick 4:00 1-1 3·30 A !I()MFA<> GAME,.<; 1\R 1·: PI..AYED AT SC!IEN!.:C'fADY'S CD~NTRAL I'AHK MAY 2 30 MAY 1 8 9 14 15 16 HARTWICK (2) 1:00 H HEAD COACH: SUZANNE PEDONE WOMEN'S TRACK CT C Meet (ilJ Trenton 500 A CTC Meet@ Trenton 900 A Stale Meet @ Albany 6:00 A State Meet @ Albany g_oo A UNION SPRING CLASSIC 5:00 H ECAC Meet @ Tufts 300 A ECAC Meet@ Tufts 1000 A HEAl> COACH: DAVE HERRINGTON MEN'S TENNIS 26 Albany 3:00 28 Hamilton 3:00 29 HARTWICK 3:00 MAY 4 Williams 3:30 HEAD COACH: JIM WlLCON GOLF 26 DOMINICAN 1:00 30 Middlebury 1:00 HEAD COACH: BILL SCANLON A A H A H A MAY 4 WILLIAMS 4:00 }t HEAD COACH: CHARLYN ROBERT MEN'S TRACK 30 CTC Meet @ Tremton MAY 1 CTC Meet @ Trent1>n 8 Stale Meet @ AI bally 9 State meet @ Albar1y 14 UNION SPRING CLASSIC 5:00 A g·(}{) ,A 600 .A 900 J\ 5 :()() ii HEAD COACH: DAVE HERRINGroN

I . ' . ' i ~ I ·Editorial, PQge 8: ·Inductees to Phi Beta ·Kappa Announced , in · r~i$riJs~; • • · ·· · A .~· ~ .. :.~.~:~ ..... : .. ~.1J1o: '· Worl<I·NeY.ts, ... ~:.~ •••• .-p4 Features ................. pl2,' ··stP<Jefit FoJ!Iirn•~~; .• :~.ps· Campus News •• ~ .. ~ .. p'l:;·: · Bditorl~l; ••. ~~ . .:~.: ..... ~ ... p8 :Bulletin ................. ~pt4:: Arts and Entertainm(nt. P«U 11:. Critique of Union student ·.<Leu¢rs~'\\'; ... ~.\''·~·\·~··~!P9' · S,ports .•.•• ~~·········~·····P~5. film, \Within Reach\\ · .. ' ' . . •. - . .·, . ' . :. . ·- . ,·_ .: The Student N~wspaper of Union College Since 1877 Vol •. cxn. No. 21 Huggins Speaks Out On Human Rights by Alexandra Kreisler Concordiensis Staff Schenectady, NY April 29, 1993 Martha Huggins, Professor of Sociology, has launched a new project at Union College concerning issues in human rights. The Internal Education Foundation of Union College has awarded Huggins $1,000 to support an evening in human rights and careers in human rights, which will take p1ace on Thursday, May 6, at 7 pm at the CDC. As a devoted w0rker to human rights issues~ Huggins wishes to educate students about alternative career options involving human rights. · .subject of violence.\ She adds that \we tend to focus our energy on other countries, like Bosnia.\ Basically. we are seduced into thinking that attacks on human rights are not occurring in the United States. Huggins reminds us that \rape happens in this country too.\ Not to mention domestic violence. homelessness, hate crimes and the other diseases that plague the U.S. Huggins states that \a job is a basic human right in a country where if you do not work, you cannot survive. It was estimated in 1982, that there were ten or more unemployed ... ,;'/:·;···-~-~- _.::·>t;;,-_,i:>-::· ': ' ' Martha Huggins, Professor of Sociology, has dedicated herself to the Human Rights Movement While Huggins came up with the idea and raised the funds; she reveals that this pr()ject could not have been successful without the help of Union student, Rachel Kest. Kest, a Junior. Sociology Major, was. hired by Huggins as a research assistant to prepare for the human rights evening. Huggins selected Kest for hef experience and knowledge. persons, for every vacant job.\ inter11ships and schools Huggins emphasizes the involving human rights, as detrimental problems in the res;earched by Kest. United States in order to One does not have to got to B()snia to become active in capture the attention of human rights. Huggins students. The idea of any human rights work is to, frrst. suggests some human rights educate people, and then to opportunities right here in raise their consciousness about Schenectady: Big Brothers/ Big Sisters of Schenectady, the the problem. Huggins advises Ra:pe Crisis Center, Battered people to discover a way to use their new consciousness and Women's Shelter, and energy to figure out a way to S.LC.M., a food pantry in use the infonnation to improve Schenectady. Huggins advises how to interview a torturer, Huggins laughs, \with great care.\ Huggins hosted a term abroad this past fall in Brazil, where some of her students researched different areas of human rights, including new Iy established police stations for battered women. In 1994~ Huggins plans to host another term abroad to Brazil with students interested in working with human rights agencies. Finally. Hug~ ins hopes to bring human rights issues to the classroom. In 1994-1995, she plans to offer Sociology of Human Rights: Law and Practice on the course curriculum. Sociology Professor, Ilene Kaplan, will offer an Internship Course, Sociology 61, in Winter 1994, where students will be placed in various human rights agencies in Schenectady. The course will include academic .work in conjunction with the agency. Kest started her research in January at the CDC. where she looked ·up a list of non-profit organizations. She wrote t() these organizations explaining her interest in educating Union students on human rights career opportunities. Quite a few positive responses led her to other informational outlets. Several phone calls and letters later, Kest discovered many different options for students beyond Union, on the su])ject of human rights careers. the problem. stlldents .. not to just study The human rights evening human rights in other countries will address such problems. because there is a surplus of it Union Choir Performs Worcester Huggins explains that \a human right involves the basic right to shelter, health, adequate nutrition, and the right to live without being the From 7-8 pm there will be a right here.\ panel of human rights workers Professor Huggins has done who will speak: about human an admirable amount of work rights problems in selected in the human rights field. She world r~gions. Panelists will has published two books titled, • zn by Dan Bullen Contributing Writer l ·nclude Ell\'n Law~on (Unt'on Vigilanticism and the State l'n \\ - ~ •• - ·· · The Union College Choir al na) n G t al . A Modern Latin America and urn o ua em . a, ·my this weekend took part in a Wilentz On Haiti . Paulo Sergt·o From Slavery to Vagrancy in • · · performance of epic Pinheiro on Brazil, and a Brazil .. She is in the process Jamaican activist on Peru. of writing a third book on U.S. proportions. In Worcester, F 8 9 th ak involvement with Latin .Massachussettes, with choirs rom - pm, ese spe ers ;from Worcester Polytechnic Wl 'll talk t'nformally on how American police. Also, she Institute, Holy Cross College .. they became involved in will be going on sabbatical land Wens College. in a united human rights. In addition, ne:K:t year to study men who choir of two hundred fifty there will be a great deal of tortured people in the 60's and singers, and accompanied by an materl .al on fellowsht.ps 70\s in Brazil. When asked • orchestra of seventy players~ · · ·:·,c Ni\\itil.US iatJtliptnerit 'lfiitlt)10S .. ·• Et:;~~~:· ;:::;;:, / .. : _- Miebell' tt8seubannt: ·.-· 'bteat .. 'l'h~ athletic office. is.·.· tef'~; < , . , · .. · . · ··.. - ·' the city's communities, which · CifncordienSiswtlttr · · .·. · aware· 8n,tJ is in the :Process of \J5pecially dut'Qlg -the w-inter packed the sold out concert ~..,..,..._ .......... ~ .......... ~.......,...~ .. ,.,.. ....... entijfi~t1d$ ptoblenL • .·• ··.· ·. ·. · ··tei;'tlt,, ~e bike.s·;at¢ u~edc1J1o1e halls for .the Saturday and __ 'fhe Ahunni Gym naulitus 1 · Uilian is. ~ot tho only s¢bool •lhan ot~er ttmes,~ stn.c-e the Sunday night performances. roolf1· is•01t ·th,e way to r¢pait;.. . with·.·. wort-out .. equipment .... weatnet: ls not. favorable. tor These concerts are part of a .,At thebeginni~g 0 f.tJte~hoo.t pr.cih~e.nts~ .·Actually :it is .'a Qlit~QO~. ~ports.· ~o matt~t cooperative tradition Union lyeat\ there w~re. ,t)u~e, excr<:ise · nati,on wi4e pt()blem:, It is very . - wtlat .. ktl\d of. ~ e~utpmen~ IS maintains with Wells and WPI; bikes~aFlex::StepMaohineiancJ: <lifftt.;U~tta keep'tbjngs in gOOd · ~ou.gltt, th~t~ Js· atways :th~: .each year the groups combine a crQSS c~ulltr)t sld UUtO~iQ.~;. contfti1ion ' at C.0Heges an(f . cmance of-it '·n.eeding repair .. : at least once or twice to After a coople,.of months ipto Universities. . Uni<>n used. <t& · · · UiD.'f6rtuJiately this means· :perform a large work, which the school year 1 :tb~h~ ·w.ere haveSchwinn.Air~jk~; Sve,n Ulliontnusttpendinotem 9 ne~ :for recent years has been :;:!~e:=:':=.:i; ·=:t~~i:= :::;~l':!~es« MY. ~~:;~·~~:~~j;:~ed~~:~ one is usabl~ since- the other r~gulal'ly. Their replacements · · · t'l syntpathil.e. with the been so large as for Verdi, as ope has has only one pedal. . · wei'~. the. three ~uturi .bikes : · st;(ldents~·· says ~b Montana,. Holy Cross also brought a rrh~ problem i$ not silnply the . wbicb are easfet tO .maintain . tlte director of lntramui'a_l large group, and WPI included '~fficiency of t:l)e eq,qjp~ent, .since ~hey· 4o not have tbe ·. Recre~tion-t i•and I am i~ the its alumni and Women's but also the .oenstanfuse tllat movmg Jiandles •. Yet, two ()f · pt()ljes$ of bu~g~t analysis-for Chorale in the concerts. ~~~sed h.e$f} m~~.l\f.ii•~, f(). ~etbreeate~tl(ly.in-ne~dof 1 :·(;!Onfon :~ · Despite its small size. Union singers found themselves well prepared by director Thomas Booth, an accomplished accompanist and director for the year. Unsurprisingly, the reviews of botll concerts glowed, 1 labelling the performances I \amazing.\ \powerful and i \moving\ in addition to a number of more technical acclaims aimed at the skill and . unity of the far-ranging choir. . After the success of this concert, at which Union played a small but necessary part in the sound of the whole ensemble. the Choir will be performing, with the Union College Orchestra. John Rutter'.s Requiem. a piece commissioned only four years ago. After that, and the performance of the \Ode to Union\ at commencement, the choir is turning its head to Europe in hopes of a tour there next year, but that still is in planning. As a small group, the Choir always welcomes new, devoted singers, regardless of experience, and holds its rehearsals at 6:30 religiously each Monday and Wednesday night in Arts 215. Be a part of it.

Editorial. Pare 8: ln This Issue: A & E ..... , ............. plO. Features ................. p12 Arts and Ent<rtt~inment. page 11: Inductees to Phi B,eta Kappa Announced ·World News ............. p4 . Student Forum ......•.. p5 Editorial.. ..... , .......•.. p8 Letters.\' ................. p9 Cmnpus News ........ p13 Bulletin ................. p14 Sports ................... p15 Critique of Union student film, \Wit'b' in Reach\. The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Vol. CXII. No. 21 Huggins Speaks Out On Human Rights by Alexandra Kreisler Concordiensis Staff Martha Huggins. Professor of Sociology, has launched a new project at Union College concerning issues in human rights. The Internal Education Foundation of Union College has awarded Huggins $1,000 to support an evening in human rights and careers in human rights, which will take place on Thursday. May 6, at 7 pm at the CDC. As a devoted worker to human rights issues, Huggins wishes to educate students about alternative career options involving human rights. While Huggins came up with the idea and raised the funds, she reveals that this project could not have been successful without the help of Union student, Rachel Kest. Kest, a Junior, Sociology Major. was hired by Huggins as a research assistant to prepare for the human rights evening. Huggins selected Kest for her experience and knowledge. Kest started her research in January at the CDC, where she looked up a list of non-profit organizations. She wrote to these organizations explaining her interest in ed11cating Union students on human rigbts career opportunities. Quite a few positive responses led her to other informational outlets. Several phone calls and letters later, Kest discovered many different options for students beyond Union, on the subject of human rights careers. Huggins explains that \a human right involves the basic right to shelter, health, adequate nutrition, and the right to live without being the subject of violence.\ She adds that ··we tend to focus our energy on other countries, like Bosnia.\ Basically, we are seduced into tbinking that attacks on human rights are not occurring in the United States. Huggins reminds us that ''rape happens in this country too.\ Not to mention domestic violence, homelessness, hate crimes and the other diseases that plague the U.S. Huggins states that \a job is a basic human right in a country where if you do not work, you cannot survive. It was estimated in 1982, that there were ten or more unemployed persons. for every vacant job. .. Huggins emphasizes the detrimental problems in the United States. in order to capture the attention of students. The idea of any human rights work is to, flrst, educate people, and then to raise their consciousness about the problem. Huggins advises people to discover a way to use their new consciousness and energy to figure out a way to use the information to improve the problem. The human rights evening will address such problems. From 7-8 pm there will be a panel of human rights workers who will spealc about human rights problems in selected world. regions. Panelists will include Ellen Lawton (Union alumna) on Guatemala, Amy Wilentz on Haiti, Paulo Sergio Pinheiro on Brazil, and a Jamaican activist on Peru. From 8-9 pm, these speakers will talk informally on how they became involved in human rights. In addition, there will be a great deal of material on fellowships, Schenectady, NY April 29, 1993 \-\~---· ~--.-·-··~-~--- . --~ ~ -~- --------~~ -~ Martha Huggins, Professor of Sociology, has dedicated herself to the Human Rights Movement. internships and schools involving human rights, as researched by Kest. One does not have to got to Bosnia to become active in human rights. Huggins suggests some human rights opportunities right here in Schenectady: Big Brothers/ Big Sisters of Schenectady, the Rape Crisis Center, Battered Women's Shelter. and S.I.C.M .. a food pantry in Schenectady. Huggins advises students .. not to just study human rigbts in other countries because there is a surplus of it right here.'' Professor Huggins has done an admirable amount of work in the human rights field. She has published two books titled, Vigilanticism and the State in Modern Latin America and From Slavery to Vagrancy in Brazil.. She is in the process of writing a third book on U.S. involvement with Latin American police. Also, she will be going on sabbatical next year to study men who tortured people in the 60's and 70's in Brazil. Wilen asked bow to interview a torturer, Huggins laughs. \with great care.\ Huggins hosted a term abroad this past fall in Brazi I, where some of her students researched different areas of human rights, including newly established police stations for battered women. In 1994, Huggins plans to host another term abroad to Brazil with students interested in working with human rights agencies. Finally, Huggins hopes to bring hLJman righls issu~·s to the classroom. In 1994-199:1. she plans to offer Sociology of llurnan Rights: Law anJ Practice on rhe course curriculum. Sociology Professor. Ilene Kaplan, will offer an Internship Course. Sa>ciology 61, in Winter 1994. where stud\!nts will be placed in various human rights agencies in Schenectady. The co ursc will include acadcm ic work in conjunction with the agency. Union Choir Performs I Worcester l • zn ----------- singers found themselves wen I by Dan Bullen Contributing Writer prepared by director Thomas 1 Booth, an accomplished : The Union College Choir ac(;ompanist and director for the ; this weekend took part in a ye.ar. ' performance of epic Unsurprisingly, the reviews I proportions. In Worcester, of both concerts glowed. Massachussettes, with choirs labelling the performances from Worcester Polytechnic ·~amazing,\ \powerful.\ and Institute, Holy Cross College, ''moving\ in addition to a l 'and Wells College, in a united m.amber of more technical ! choir of two hundred fifty acdaims aimed at the skill and \ singers, and accompanied by an u11ity of the far-ranging choir. I orchestra of seventy players, After the success of this Nautilus Equipment Troubles Union's singers. numbering ,c:;()ncert, at which Union played ony twelve, performed a small but necessary part in Guiseppe Verdi's Requiem for the sound of the whole Michelle Rosenbaum Concordiensis writer The Alumni Gym nautilus room is on the way to repair. At the beginning .of the school year there were· three exercise bikes, a Flex Step Machine and a cross country ski machine. After a couple of months into the school year, there were only two exercis~ bikes. Now there are two, however only one is usable since the other one has has only one pedal. The problem is not simply the efficiency of the equipment, but ~so the constant use that caused these machines to break. The athletic office is aware anc;l is in the process of ending this problem. Union is not the only school with work-out equipment problems. Actually it is a nation wide problem. It is very difficult to keep things in good condition at colleges and universities. Union used to have Schwinn Air Bikes. Even though they had an outstanding track record, they broke down regularly. Then· replacements were the three Tuturi bikes which are easier to maintain since they do not have the moving handles. Yet, two of the three are already in need of 1 repair. Especially during the winter term, the bikes are used more than other times, since the weather is not favorable for outdoor sports. No matter what kind of equipment is bought, there is always the chance of it needing repair. Unfortunately tbis means Union must spend more money to buy new machines or pay to repair ()ld ones. *'I sympath.ize with the students, ' 1 says Bob Montana,. the director of Intramural Recreation, \and I am in the· process of budget analysis for Cont en pg.~ the city's communities, which e11semble. the Choir will he packed the sold out concert performing. with the Union halls for the Saturday and C<>llege Orchestra. John Sunday night performances. Rllltter's Requiem, a piece These concerts are part of a commissioned only four years cooperative tradition Union ago. After that, and the maintains with Wells and WPI; performance of the \Ode to each year the groups combine lTnion\ at commencement. the at least once or twice t<> clloir is turning its head to • perform a large work, which Europe in hopes of a tour there \ for recent years has been next year, but that sti 11 is in , Mozart's Requiem. Never.. planning. As a small group. \ though, have the joined choirs the Choir always welcomes 1 been so large as for Verdi, as new. devoted singers, regardless I Holy Cross also brought :. of experience. and holds its large group. and WPl included rehearsals at 6:30 religiously its alumni and Women's each Monday and Wednesday . Chorale in the concerts. ~.i&ht i11 Arts 215. Be a part of j Despite its small size, Unio11 1t. ·-------------------·-· --·-----

April29, 1993, page 2 ' ' Student F'orum Spotlight By Alexander Sk:tavos · Elections are here. Elections for Student Forum President, Junior Trustee. VP of Finance, VP of Academics, and VP -of· Administration will be held tomorrow, The voting booth will be · in the College Center all day. Allfour classes ~l:l!l 'VOtefor these positions. Elections for class representatives Will ·0¢ -bel<! on Friday, May 14. PetitiQns are av11ilable today;, ~d th:ey 'will be· . • due (along with statementS) on Monday, ~Y ltl. .. ~students· . . interested may pick these up in the StudeJJt Activ!Jies offi~e .. Committee applications will be available on ~[)ittJ8y; M~Y 3td. All fl!ll time students may apply f()f cottllnittee }.l()$itiqn$ •• Students may now apply for twa e~mmittee posilit)ns~~o·~ l)'laj()r,_ and oile minor or two- miocJrs. _The major committeeSlU:e SriJ,(Ie;flt;. Mfairs Council. Academic Affaits Couucil, Finll.ll.t»-·:¢61Qmit~.:. · Committee on Committees, and Conduct Committee~ , 'l'b~: iQi~l commitfees are all otlier sUJ;nding committees of the Student' Forum.. \ · . . . · . . · :. ··• A very .interesting .issUe· came to.the·FQi:um tllis We¢k•' .'Tlja~·. issue was minoriti¢s ai Union. Recently A,L.A.:S~ has m~cte,.:;~,' · appeal. to: President Hulfantl tp tile ·Boan,t ot 't,rust®s·~:: !he)' .. would lite to ·see, a,s w9old' the Stli.d¢nt F()IJ®t, a.n i)l¢-r~~f·i.PF · courses :conceining · inin(;)}i;ities ·h) tbjs ·coUntry an~. tbeit'~-pecijv(f histories. At· thiS 1~oint t)teir ~ppeal .seems to bat~ ·~~ jgJ10f¢d~. · This points to a larger issue. Diversity ·b~ l)een- a -very btg·: · problem on c~pus .. People tend to clirig tc>,tll.eirown gr~Ql)~:· To try to find ane specific answer would be ~e1;t tQ, imp0sSible,;: but the~ is a lot tbi\t we can· :do:to· educate ·onrsel:ves;. • T;be ·Peer. · Facilitators are spOnsoring diversity m(}nth. There $'e· many events that we can attend as a. cam.pus tO try to ~iJcate (:)utselves'· and understand one another. One event in partit.ular $hould be • attended by evecyone,· the l)i'Jii!'rsity Works\o{f o~. ftf.O.Y ~3, at 7PM in Old Chapel. The · Studeo.t Fetlllll will be m · attendance and we hope you will be too. . .· . . On a completely. differellt note~ ·there b:Js b~¢n a lot of · complaints to .the. Forum concerning people sllloki~!l in the • entrances to the Gollege Center. For sotne rta~n, ~opJe qon,'t: seem to enjoy h~,tving their lungs. fl~t(il, 'b.f: ~~i?,Qgy~s a~.tl}~~; enter the College ·center •. Smoking~~- proh1btted m.the Coliege Center, this includes the entqulces. Plea~e respe<:t-tflis~ _ NEWS Qthr OlnnrDr~ irn.si.s Freeman Dyson Will Speak at Union Courtesy of Public Relations Schenectady, N.Y. (April 14) -- Freeman Dyson, the :provocative scientist whose interests range from number theory to disarmament, will speak on \The Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence\ on Thursday, May 13, 8 p.m. in the College Center auditorium at Union College. The talk is free to the public. Dyson, who has been professor of physics at Princeton's Institute for Advanced .Study since 1953, is the Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Lecturer at Union this spring. His public lecture will be a \discussion of the practical problems of looking in the sky for evidence of intelligent life, using our existing instruments and the limited quantities of money and time that astronomers have to spare for such aversions.\ Within the broad fields of mathematics, physics, and astronomy, Dyson has worked on number theory. elementary particles, ferromagnetism, nuclear reactors, spaceships, and telescopes. He also writes and lecture extensively abo11t carbon dioxide and climate, anns control and disarmament, and the human and social aspects of science and technology. His most recent book, From Eros to Gaia, consists of stories about big science and small science and big scientists and small ones. The purpose, he writes, is to allow big and .small to find their own niches in a productive ecology so that \mice are not squashed by elephants and elephants are not nibbled to death by mice.\ Dyson also is the author of Infinite in All Directions, which won the Phi Beta Kappa Award in Science, Origins of Life, Weapons and Hope, and Disturbing the Universe. Dyson is prominently portrayed in Genius by James Gleick, a book about the late physicist Richard Feynman, a colleague of Dyson's. Dyson's awards include the· Oersted Medal of the American Association of Physics Teachers. He was elected a member of the National Academy of Sciences, fellow of the Royal Society, and honorary fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge. and during 1975-76 was a Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar. He earned his B.A. degree from the University of Cambridge in 1945 and has received 12 honorary degrees in science and humane letters. During his stay at Union, Dyson also will visit scientists at GE's Research and De-velopment Center·, and attend a number of symposia with Uniqn college students and faculty . including the C<>llege's Steinmetz Symposium, a conference of research by undergraduates. For more information, call 370-6241. Clarence Page Affirmative Speaks on Action by Heather Manley Concordiensis Staff On Wednesday, May 5, Pulitzer Prize winning journalist, Clarence Page, will speak at 8 p.m. in the College Center Auditorium. His speech, \Affirmative Action in the Year 2000,\ is one of many ,(>ften unreported issues he un.dertakes. Page related his concerns about Affirmative Action in previous speeches where he called for equal opportunity in the news room. He stressed the need for events to be reported from a non- white, non-male point-of-view. Page also reports on such urban issues as politics, economics, prejudices, and education. Page, born in Dayton, Ohio i.n 1947, first entered journalism after high school as a photographer and freelance writer for the Middletown ! ou.rnat and the Cincinnati Enquirer. He then went on to Page's journalism career includes a position as talk- show host and later, editor for WRBM-TV of Chicago. In 1984. l1e joined the staff of the Chicago Tribune where he is now a syndicated columnist Page distinguished himself by winning such awards as the Edward Scott Beck Award for a 197{) series on the changing poli1ics of South Africa, and in 1980, the Illinois UPI Award for community service for his series, \The Black Tax.\ Page wo11 the 1989 Pulitzer Prize for Commentary. In 1990, he was awarded the Harold Washington Chair in Political Science at Roosevelt University in Chicago, where he taught for one semester. In addition to his work for the Tribune, Page also wrote for several newspapers and appeared on such shows as \The MacLaughlin Group,\ The MacNeil/Lehrer News Hour and hosted various Public Broa-dcasting System documentaries. .a receive a Bachelor of Science ···•I il Degree in Jounialism at Ohio . ;;~,Uoiversity in 1969. \:;:·'.o r--------------------------, ' <Q t .~f , , , . l· Write 5f ((j'f !J{j/WS Professor Ted Bick, of the Mathematics Department, is renewing .a 1· year-old ngbt that professors were gra~ted whe~ Union College w~s chartered m 1795. Professors ~ tffl ~.~If AJ1 A were allowed to graze their farm ammals on the Nott Field. ((_, Uh(J,~ 4:::ff &:fi \ a l ., p

April29, 1993, page 2 I Student Forum Spotlight By Alexander Sklavos Elections are here. Elections for Student Forum President, Junior Trustee, VP of Finance, VP of Academics. and VP of. Adrninislration will be held tomorrow. The voting booth will be in the College Center all day. All four classes can vote for these · positions. Elections for class representatives will be held on Friday, May 14. Petitions are available today, and they will be due (along with statements) on Monday, May IO. Students interested may pick these up in the Student Activities office. Committee applications will be available on Monday, May 3rd. , All fun time students may apply for committee .positions. • Students may now apply for two committee positions: one major.· and one minor or two minors. The major committees are Student Affairs Council, Academic Affairs Council, Finance Committee •. Committee on Committees, and Conduct Committee. The minor · committees are all other standing committees of the Student· Forum. A ver'!l interesting issue came to the Forum this week. That • issue wa.s minorities at Union. Recently A.L.A.S. has made an · appeal tiD President Hull and to the Board of Trustees. They . would lilke to see, as woul<l the Student Forum~ an increase in' courses concerning minorities in this country and their respective · histories. At this point their appeal seems to have been ignored. This poLnts to a larger issue. Diversity has been a very big problem on campus. Peop-le tend to cling to their own groups. To try t~ fi11d one specific answer would be next to impossible, but therec is a lot that we can d() to educate ourselves. The Peer Facilitators are sponsoring diversity month. There are m:any events tltat we can attend as a campus to try to educate ourselves • and understand one another. One event in particular should be attended by everyone, the Diversity Workshop on May 13. at 7PM in Old Chapel. The Student Forum will be in attendance and we hope you will be too. On a completely different note, there has been a lot ot complaints to the- Forum concerning people smoking in the entrances to the College Center. For some reason people don't· seem to enjoy having their lungs flooded by carcinogens as they enter the College Center. Smoking is prohibited in the College Center, this includes the entrances. Please respect this. I NEWS Qrhr QlonrDr~ irn.sis Freeman Dyson Will Speak at Union Courtesy of Public Relations Schenectady, N.Y. (April 14) -- Freeman Dyson, the provocative scientist whose interests range from number theory to disarmament, will speak on \The Search for Extraterrestriai Intelligence\ on Thursday. May 13, 8 p.m. in the College Center auditorium at Union College. The talk is free to the public. Dyson, who has been professor of physics at Princeton's Institute for Advan.ced Study since 1953, is the Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Lecturer at Union this spring. His public lecture will be a \disc11ssion of the practical problems of looking in the sky for evidence of intelligent life, using (Jill existing instruments and tile limited quantities of money and time that astronomers have to spare for such aversions.\ Within the broad fields of mathematics, physics, and astronomy, Dyson has worked on number theory, elementary particles, ferromagnetism, nuclear reactors, spaceships, and telescopes. He also writes and lecture extensively about carbon dioxide and climate, anns control and disarmament, and the human and social aspects of science and technology. His most recent book, From Eros to Gaia, consists of stories about big science and small science and big scientists and small ones. The purpose, he writes, is to allow big and small to find their own niches in a productive ecology so that \mice are not squashed by elephants and elephants are not nibbled to death by mice.\ Dyson also is the author of Infinite in All Directions, which won the Phi Beta Kappa Award in Science, Origins of Life, Weapons and Hope, and Disturbing the Universe. Dyson is prominently portrayed in Genius by James Gleick, a book about the late physicist Richard Feynman, a colleague of Dyson's. Dyson's awards include the Oersted Medal of the American Association of Physics Teachers. He was elected a member of the National Academy of Sciences, fellow of ~~ _;_~, ;# .iff· ,/Ji the Royal Society, and honorary fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge, and during 1975-76 was a Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar. He earned his B.A. degree from the University of Cambridge in 1945 and has received 12 honorary degrees in science and humane letters. During his stay at Union, Dyson also will visit scientists at GE's Research and Development Center, and attend a number of symposia with Union college students and faculty including the College's Steinmetz Symposium, a conference of research by undergraduates. For more information, call 370-6241. Clarence Page Affirmative Speaks on Action by Heather Manley Concordiensis Staff On Wednesday, May 5, Pulitzer Prize winning journalist, Clarence Page, will speak at 8 p.m. in the College Center Auditorium. His speech, \Affirmative Action in the Year 2000,\ is one of many often unreported issues he undertakes. Page related his concerns about Affirmative Action in previous speeches where he called for equal opportunity in the news room. He stressed the need for events to be reported from a non- white, non-male point-of-view. Page also reports on such urban issues as politics, economics, prejudices, and education. Page. born in Dayton, Ohio in 194 7. first entered journalism after high school as a photographer and freelance .S writer for the Middletown . . : ~Journal and the Cincinnati ;-·,,.\ ;·::\~ Jt Enquirer. He then went on to .5 receive a Bachelor of Science g) Degree in Journalism at Ohio :~.University in 1969. Page's journalism career includes a position as talk- show host and later, editor for WBBM- TV of Chicago. In 1984, he joined the staff of the Chicago Tribune where he is now a syndicated columnist. Page distinguished himself by winning such awards as the Edward Scott Beck A ward for a 1976 series on the changing politics of South Africa, and in 1980, the Illinois UPI Award for community service for his series, \The Black Tax.\ Page won the 1989 Pulitzer Prize for Commentary. In 1990, he was awarded the Harold Washington Chair in Political Science at Roosevelt University in Chicago. where he taught for one semester. In addition to his work for the Tribune, Page also wrote for several newspapers and appeared on such shows as \The MacLaughlin Group,\ The MacNeil/Lehrer News Hour and hosted various Public Broadcasting System documentaries. ~r-------------------------------------------1 .9 ·0 a Professor Ted Bick of the Mathematics Department, is renewing a 198 year-old nght that professors wer~ granted when Union College was chartered in 1795. Professors were allowed to graze their farm animals on the Nott Field. Wri:f!;e 9f @t ~ws Cta~lf 4J314 ,· l I. I I' I I I I i r m pr Stl Sl df pr N Sl ar s~ Sl Li A Sc th g• H cl Tl Sl \r ~ as u lo w m . j ( n tl b \ \1 a v h e c a l 1 v 1 -c 1 .H v tc v. 0

Q!br <!Loursrbirn.si.s NEWS Professor of the Week Nancy Shour by Caroline Paine News Editor Union prides itself on maintaining a staff of professors that will excite students as they learn. Nancy Shour, of the English department, is one such professor. Originally from Napa, California, Professor Shour lived with her parents and her younger brother until she completed her education. Shour majored in English and Liberal Studies and minored in Art History at the Hutchens Schoal at Senoma State. She then went on to receive her graduate degree at U. C. Berkley, where she taught classes as a teaching assistant. Three years ago Professor Shour left her native state to \move where the history was\ the East,. and be_gan ·reaching as a visiting professor at Union College. \Ever since I was little I loved to read,\ Shour recalled when asked why she chose to become a professor of English. \I loved to read, learn and experience things and places I could not do on my own. I wanted to try to equip or help o:ther people to enjoy what I have. I wanted to open ap other points of view to my students.\ When Professor Shour first began her education slle tlloug·ht she would be encouraging her future students to experience literature from a Victorian English point of view. Yet by the time she was :preparing for her graduate degree .she had switched her focus to American Literature. When asked why she suddenly switched her focus she replied with a sudden sly smile, \If you want to know the truth, T read The Last oftlte Mohicans by Cooper. I always loved American history and I fell in love with Cooper's landscapes. I figured out a way to combine the two into my schooling and completely defected to American Literature by m:y senior year.\ Shour explained that in one of her classes the students complained about the difficulty of the Cooper novel. She said that before she began class that day she commented that the book didn't seem to have tile same dramatic effect on their lives as it had on hers. \It [The Last of the Moihicans] literally turned my life in a different direction. I don't think. my class knew what I meant when I told ,them that.\ It is this reason that Shour takes such care in presenting the novel to her classes. She hopes to help other people make important discoveries about themselves and literature. Recently, Professor Shour was granted a position on the tenure track at Union. Over the summer she will be completing the manuscript to her first book on \Landscape and the National Identity\. In this book Shour will demonstrate how Irving, Whitman and of course Cooper portrayed the American Identity thrm.-.gh the landscapes described in their works. In chapter on the Civil War, Shour will be house sitting for a friend who lives on the edge of the Gettysburg battle field in Pennsylvania. Charlotte, her famed and spoiled cat, will April29, 1993, page 3 accompany her for the duration of her stay to keep her company as she \lives where the history was made\ and composes her book to spread her love of American Literature to others. Exercising Blues Steinmetz Symposium Approaches Coot from pgl new equipment.\ The reason they waited until spring is because they hoped with the warm weather more students would be doing outdoor aerobic activity. Since the nautilus room is very small, it is necessary to have less and smaller equipment to prevent over crowding. That is why there are not any Stairmasters Lifecycles, or Treadmills These exercise machines would take up too much room. These machines are also very -costly. An exact time the new and repaired equipment will be ill the Nautilus room is uncertai11~ The goal of the athletic department is to buy some new equipment and still have the old equipment which will be repaired. Money, efficiency and space are important issues that the intramural office is attempting to solve. \Unfortunately we have not been successful in the past with coming up with efficient equipment,\ Mr. Montana explains. He hopes to change this problem as soon as possible. by Michelle Ellis Concordiensis Staff The Steinmetz Symposium . on student creative, scholarly, and research achievement will be held on the weekend of May 14th. This program was organized three years ago by the administration in hopes of enlarging the student's forum so they can express themselves through the presentation of their work. The students' presentations are exciting and the topics are very diverse. The thirty odd students who participated in the National Conference of Holocaust Museum Opens photo by Buffy Rubenstein On Thursday, April 22, 1993, The United States Holocaust Museum in Washington D.C. was dedicated to the six million Jews who were consumed by the flames of Nazi Germany. Those present at the dedication service were Elie Wiesel, The Founding Chairman of the United States Holocaust council, Harvey Meyerhoff, the current Chairman of The United Staws Holocaust council, Ted Koppel Master of Ceremonies at the dedication, President Clinton, and Tom Foley, Speaker of the United States House of Representatives. The Holocaust Museum was chartered by a unanimous act of The United States Congress in 1980, and was built entirely by private funds. Undergraduate Research (NCUR)will be gtvmg presentations of their topics. Aproximately one hundred and seventy other students, have been invited to speak by their faculty sponsors. Dan Milsky. a participant in this year's NCUR program, will present his research titled: \A Critique of Anthropocentric Environmental Ethics. \Milsky sponsored by Professor Genest of the philosophy department, examines and supports the idea of eco-centric ethics. His argument evaluates the extension of rights to the ecosystem. When asked why he is participating in this program he replied, \I am interested in pursuing philosophy in graduate school. An academic must give academic papers excellent preperation in order to be prepared for careers in the academic world.\ Milsky also stated that the result of participating in a program like the Steinmetz Symposium is that the student's final project often enables _him to gain a far better understanding of the topic that he has researched than anyone at Union College. Lisa Tesarik, who did not participate in NCUR, is presenting a research project sJXJnsored by Professor Shour of the English department. Tesarik's project is titled: Edging Towards Equality: The Changing Role of American Women. When asked why she was participating in this program, Tesarik replied, '~Steinmetz is an opportunity to share how I integrated twenty plus weeks of research and mterpretation into a unique and comprehensive perspective.\ She also discussed her topic during the interview. ..My paper describes how literature reflects the progressive steps of transcendentalism, abolition, the women· s rights movement, and the Civil War; which removed women from the domestic realm into the public sphere.\ Students should take this opportunity to support their friends and fellow studcrits who have developed complex IJrojects after many weeks of laboring over their research. This arena for students to express their accomplishments will be very successful if students attend this event and participate in learning about the many various scholarly subjects that their friends have mastered. Don't Forget: Vote on Friday For Student Forum

' ,, I r illlu' illvttr.orbirn.shl NEWS Professor of the Week Nancy Shour by Caroline Paine News Editor Union prides itself on maintaining a staff of professors that will excite students as they learn. Nancy Sho.ur, of the English department, is one such professor. Originally from Napa, California. Professor Shour lived with her parents and her younger brother until she completed her education. Shour majored in English and Liberal Studies and minored in Art History at the Hutche11s School at Senoma State. She then went on to receive her graduate degree at U. C. Berkley. where she taught classes as a teaching assistant. Three years ago Professor Shour left her native state to \move where the history was\. the East, and began teaching as a visiting professor at Union College. \Ever since I was little I loved to read,\ Shour recalled when asked why she chose to become a professor of English. \I loved to read, learn and experience things and places I could not do on my own. I wanted to try to equip or help other people to enjoy what I have. 1 wanted to open up other points .of view to my students.\ When Pmfessor Shour first began her education she thought she would be encouraging her future students to experience literature from a Victorian English point of view. Yet by the time she was preparing for her graduate degree she had switched her focus to American Literature. When asked wily she suddenly switched her focus she replied with a sudden sly smile, \If you want to know the truth. I read The Last of the Mohicans by Cooper. I always loved American history and I fell in love with Cooper's landscapes. I figured out a way to combine the two into my schooling and completely defected to American Literature by my senior year.\ Shour explained that in one of her classes the students complained about the difficulty of the Cooper novel. She said that before she began class that day she commented that the book -didn't seefll to have the same dramatic effect on their lives as it had on hers. \It [The Last of the Moihicans] literally turned my life in a different dire<:tion. I don't think my class knew what I meant when I t<Jld them that.\ It is this reason that Shmn takes such care in presenting the novel to her classes. She hopes to help other people make important discoveries abo1:1t themselves and literature. Recently, Professor Shour was granted a position on the tenure track at Union. Over the summer she will be completing tl:te manuscript to her first book on \Landscape and the Nati()lla] Identity\. In this book S hour will demonstrate how Irving, Whitman and of course Cooper portrayed the American Identity through the landscapes described in their works. chapter on the Civil War, Shour will be house sitting for a friend wh<J 1i ves on the edge of the Gettysburg battle field in Pennsylvania. Charlotte, her famed and spoiled cat, will April29, 1993, page 3 accompany her or the dtLration of her stay to keep her company as she \lives where the history was made\ and composes her book to spread her love of American Literature to others. Exercising Blues Steinmetz Symposium Approaches Cont from pgl new equipment.\ The reason they waited until spring is because they hoped with the warm weather more students would be doing outdoor aerobic activity. Since the nautilus room is very small. it is necessary to have less and smaller equipment to prevent over crowding. That is why there are not any Stairmasters Lifecycles, or Treadmills These exercise ma-chines would take up too much room. These machines are also very -costly. An exact time the new and repaired equipment will be in the Nautilus room is uncertain. The goal of the athletic departmmt is to buy some new equipment and still have the old equipment which will be repaired. Money, efficiency and space are important issues that the intramural office is attempting to solve. \Unfortunately we have not been successful in the past witll coming up with efficient equipment,\ Mr. Montana explains. He hopes to change this problem as soon as possible. by Michelle Ellis Concordiensis Staff The Steinmetz Symposium on student creative, scholarly. and research ac:hievement will be held on the weekend of May 14th. This program was organized three years ago by the administration in hopes of enlarging the student's forum so they can express themselves through the presentation of their work. The students' presentations are exciting and the topics are very diverse. The thirty odd students who participated in the National Conference of Holocaust Museum Opens photo by Buffy Rubenstein On Thursday, April 22, 1993. The United States Holocaust Museum in Washington D.C. was dedicated to the six million Jews who were consumed by the flames of Nazi Gennany. Those present at the dedication service were Elie Wiesel, The Founding Chairman of the United States Holocaust council, Harvey Meyerhoff, the cuHent Chairman of The United States Holocaust council, Ted Koppel Master of Ceremonies at the dedication. President Clinton. and Tom Fdey, Speaker of the United States House of Representatives. The Holocaust Museum was: chartered by a unanimous act or The United States Congress in: 1980, and was built entirely by private funds. Undergraduate Research (NCUR)will be gtvmg presentations of their topics. A proximately <Jne llundred and seventy other students. have been invited to speak by their faculty sponsors. Dan Milsky. a participant in this year's NCUR program, will present llis research titled: \A Critique of Anthropocentric Environmental Ethics. \Milsky sponsored by Professor Genest of the philosophy department, examines and supports the idea of ceo-centric ethics. His argument evaluates the extension of rights to the ecosystem. When asked why he is participating in this program he replied, \I am interested in pursuing philosophy in graduate school. An academic must give academic papers excellent preperation in order to be prepared for careers in the academic world.\ Milsky also stated that the result of participating in a program like the Steinmetz Symposium is that the student's final project often enables him to gain a far better understanding of the topic that he has researched than anyone at Union College. Lisa Tesarik, who did not participate in NCUR, is presenting a research project sponsored by Professor Shour of the English department. Tesarik's project is titled: Ed.ging Towards Equality: The Cllanging Role of American Women. When asked why she was participating in this program, Tcsarik replied, \Steinmetz is an opportunity to share how I integrated twenty plus weeks of research and interpretation int<> a unique and corn prehcnsive perspective.\ She also discussed her topic during the interview. \My paper describes how literature reflects the progrcssi ve steps of transcendentalism. abolition. the women's rigllts movement. and the Civil War; which removed wome11 from the d<>mcstic realm into the puhlic sphere.\ Students should take this opportunity to suppnrt their friends and fcl low stw.knts who have devck1p:d l·ornpkx projects after many weeks of laboring over their research. This arena for students to cx..prcss their accornplishm~·nts will be very successful if students attend this event anll participate in learning ahout the many variuus scholarly stlbjccU; th;Jt thl'ir frit·nd' ha\ t' mastered. Don't Forget: Vote on Friday For Student Forum -~··> ... ''lilt. ·,. ·w. .. . ·· Ji.t: .. · .... :W.'···. T. T ... T .. :T··

April29, 1993, page 4 WORLD NEWS Q!hr dlnnrvrbirn.sis Update by Craig Greenberg World News Editor RUSSIA --In a new report, the Russian Federation has explained how the Soviet Union repeatedly broke international law by dumping highly radioactive wastes into tlle sea. The report details how vast amounts of mdioactive waste were dumped into the ocean by the Sovi~t Union totaling twice the combined .total of twelve other nuclear nations. The exact threat to marine life is still unclear, as the exact composition of the radioactive refuse and structural integrity of containment units are still unknown. WASHINGTON -- Since Bosnian Serbs refuse to accept a United Nations Peace Proposal, Pr-esident Clinton has said that it is clear that the United States and its allies needs a stronger policy in the Balkans and promised to decide on a new course of action within days. Both France and Britain have indicated that they would prefer oornbing to any other form of military action currently being reviewed. Lord Owen, the European Community's peace negotiator, has been quoted as saying, ... confrontation is now inevitable\ between • the Bosnian Serbs and Europe. He continued saying that the Serbs would be punished: \economically politically, and if they continue, in my view, militarily within the context of the U.N. Charter.\ Former Secretary of State, George Shultz has also stated that he supports a large air and sea- based strike against Serb military positions. WASHINGTON -- President Clinton bas agreed to sign a biodiversity treaty protecting plant and animal species. This decision counters President Bush's boycott of this treaty at last year's Earth Summit. In an effort to placate the U.S. biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, the Clinton administration will insist that signatory nations agree to protections of industrial patent rights. WACO -- The FBI has said that it now believes that all children remaining inside the Branch Davidian compound were killed by automatic gunfire only minutes before fire engulfed the structure. Agents reported hearing 20-30 seconds of automatic gunfire from inside the compound just prior to the inferno. Commentary Thought Police by A.L. Johnson ContribuJing Writer The United States was founded on Lockian principals of individual. inalienable rights. What we did or believed in was to be our business. Our only constraint was to insure that our actions did not interfere with those same rights of others. The vital point is that our actions alone were judged. This makes perfect sense if you consider that only our actions create harm to others. Our thoughts while leading up to all events, pose no threat whatsoever. In addition it is not yet possible to fully understand the inner workings of a mind while it considers any action. For this reason it is illogical to place judgment on thoughts. This past Wednesday, the U.S. Supreme Court heard opening arguments in a Wisconsin case which may well cbange all that. The case involves a white 14 year old who was savagely beaten by a group of blacks after the latter watched the movie Mississippi Burning. There is no doubt that APPLICATIONS FOR COMMITTEE POSITIONS ARE AVAILABLE IN THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OffiCE ROOM#408 POSITIONS AVAILABLE: NA.IOR COMMITTEES ACADEM1C AFFAffiS COUNCIL COMMniTEEONCOMMmnE~ CONDUCf COMMITIEE FINANCE COMMJITEE GENERAL EDUCATION BOARD HONORARY DEGREE PLANNING & PRIORITIES SIANDlNG ON S1UDENTS ST'UDENT AFFAIRS COUNCIL OTHER COMMITTEES ADMISSIONS LIAISON ATHLETIC LIAISON CHETS/PUB CONCERTCOMMITIEE FILM COMMITI'EE LIBRARY LIAISON SOCIAL COMMITI'EE SPEAKERS FORUM STIJDENT TRAFAC APPEALS * Students rnay serve on more than two committees providing that the student is appointed to one\major\ a11d one \minor\ committee, or two \minor\ committees. **ALL APPUCATIONS ARE DUE ON FRIDAY MAY 7, 1993 IN THE SnJDENT ACTIVITIES ROOM, CC 408@ 4:30 pm. Any questions please contact any of the members of the Committee on Committees: Evans Legros (Chair) 372-4854, Michael Quinn ~~ 179, Sandra Rojas x6958, Pete Savage x4106, or Roxanne Schneider x4236. World News Editorial This .Week In ·History. by Craig Gree11berg World News Editor One of the most controversial topics of discussion recently bas been the debate over. a woman's role in the military. Many citizens of ow country believe tltat women :should have a right to serve their country in battle in the same manner as men. However, others believe that women should play a secondaly role in combat because of their \physical inferiority\ and because of the risk of rape if captured by enemy forces. The i:ssue of rape is insignificant in my opinion because :any captured male soldier may endure a variety of . torture a~ well as p<lssible death. The Clinton administration ~as indicated that it will' allow women to serve in combat roles in the near future. I. personal,ly~ do not have a !Problem with women serving alongside men during combat situations. Admittedly, there are several lo~istical problems which would have to be worked out, but eventually, I am sure that the military would be able the crime was in fact racially motivated. The primary defendant specifically noted as he first sa:w tbe victim: \There goes a white boy; go get him.\ It was not only the defendant\s actions which were punished~ but his thoughts. The defendant was fou11d guilty of Aggravated battery. But because his attack was a \Hate- crime\ he received two extra years under state penaUaws. We have been out of the dark a:ges for centuries; the Spanish inquisition is long past. Yet tltere are people who insist that non-conformist ideas are punisltable. People like Hitler, Stalin and Ho Chi Minh. You may soon be able to add the United States to that list. While it is obviously a sickening erime, and one may wish that these sick tltoughts of bigotry IJad never entered the mind of the defendant or anyone else for that matter, we cannot attempt to judge those thoughts as being right or to implement a system where· men and women could serve side by side in trenches and tanks. However. one must question whether worn en· cunently serving in the military are physically qualified · to be soldiers. I am by no. means suggesting that women. are physically inferior, but the. fact is that different ph}lsical• standards exist for women. I recently viewed a television· report which cited results of physical test scores for entrance into the marines. A woman's score of an \A\ was equivaleflt to a man's score of a \D\. Thus. a man could be denied. acceptance into the U.S. Marine Corps while a woman with the same score is • welcomed with honors. This double standard is not only unfair to men, but it is unfair to our national security.· In essence, we will be placing · unqualified people on the front lines of battle. I suggest that the military create a single set of physical test standards. If a man or woman can pass such physical test standards, he/she should be admitted to the ranks of the military. In such a case, our country's national security would be best served. wrong, and them punish them accordingly. As Voltaire said. \ I do not agree with your opinions • but I will fight to the death to defend your right to say them.\ Once we institute a standard for ideas, it is then within the power of the legislature to determine what constitutes acceptable thought. A white thief could receive extra time in prison if he robbed the store of a black. If that same white criminal then robbed the store of a white owner, the penalties would be less severe, as it would not be considered a 'hateful' act. Is the former crime really a better one? The conditions necessary to constitute a Hate- Crime would be decided by those in power. Pro-choice activists could be penalized for illegal demonstration of abortion clinics. But since the law is subjective, it would then be conceivable that a pro-life demonstrator, using exactly the 1789, George Washington was inaugurated president at Federal Hall in New York City ... April 28-29, 1817, the Rush-Bagot Treaty was signed, limiting U.S. and British ar- maments on the Great Lakes ... May 1, 1841, the first emigrant wagon train headed for California ·left Inde- pendence, Mo., with 4 7 people aboard ... April 26, 1865? John Wilkes Booth was reported dead ... May 1, 1873, the first U.S. post card was issued ... April, 30, 1894, Jacob S. Coxey led 500 unemployed people from the Midwest into Washington, D.C.; he was sub- sequently arrested for trespassing on Capitol grounds ... May 1, 1898, the U.S. destroyed the Spanish fleet in the Philippines ... May 1, 1931, the Empire State Building opened in New York City .. . April 30, 1948, the Organization of American States was founded ... April29, l!J57, Con- gress approved the first ci:vil rights bill for blacks since Reconstruction to protect voting rights ... May 1, 1960, a U-2 reconnaissance plane from· the United States was shot down in the Soviet Union, leading to the cancellation of an inuninent Paris summit conference ... April 28, 1965, approximately 14;000 U.S. troops were sent to the Dominican Republic during its civil war ... May 1,1966, U.S. forces began firing into Cambodia ... April 30, l!J70, U.S. and South Vietnamese forces crossed Cambodian borders to get at enemy bases ... April30, 1973, top Nixon aides, H.R. Haldeman, John D. Ehrlichman, John W. Dean, and Attorney General Richard Klein- dienst resigned amid charges of White House efforts to obstruct jus- tice in the Watergate c~e same tactics would not be included under the law. The trouble with the Hate-Crime laws, which are now on the books in 46 states, is that there is no standardized equality. If true justice is to be achieved, there must be equality under the law. When two people commit identical crimes under identical circumstances, both should be charged with the same crime. The only measure of the crime should be, and can only be the act itseH. To promote the idea that crimes against certain groups is better than crimes against other groups, is a recipe for discrimination. For law makers who are trying to seem sympathetic to racially motivated crimes, the legislation is a valiant gesture. Who would not want to be associated with an effort to eradicate prejudice. But that same law in practice is both irrational and totalitarian in nature. Let's hope our nation's highest court :recognizes one of the basic tenets of American \ t! U1QN~R freedom and decid~s to void t1 f\l1-'lij these laws of repressiOn. ~lG GlaP ToWARl> ~ ~R!Pl-OGK!

STUDENT FORUM PRESIDENT MIA CAETANO :I, Mia Caetano, am running for .the Student Forum Presidency and would like your vote. With my past e~perience on the Forum and other campus committees and activities, I know how the system works. Students potentially have a great amount of power on campus. We must utilize that power to achei ve out goals. I know I can be an effective liason :between the students and the administration. While serving as a freshman and sophmore class representative. I worked with administrators to address the needs and desires of the students. For example, we worked on the issue of junior housing last year, and were able to release 50 juniors off campus. Unfortunately, this year they are again requiring juniors to live on campus. This is a classic example of why students must keep on top of these constantly changing policies. Though I was not eligible to be on the Forum this year, for I recently returned from a tenn abroad, I have continued my active role on campus involving myself with the new Mentor program. I feel this program will be greatly beneficial to the campus by integrating the incoming students into Union, creating a more unified community, one of my goals as a candidate for Student Forum President. The Mentor program will also ease the transition into college life once orientation is over. I am extremely excited to see this program work, and I am proud to have contributed to it along with the rest of the committee. and to be the Chair. As Student Forum President. I plan to maximize the number of goals tllat I feel I could acheive for my fellow classmates. I would try to create more social alternatives, such as Cltets or the recent Technorave, which would ap:peal to a wider variety of students. By doing this, I feel that much of the social burden would be taken off fraternal · organizations. I would also encourage more participation dealing with certain issues. Srudents ~ make a difference. For example, ALAS is currently working on a UN organization (called Spectrum) wllich will serve the interests of all special interests groups on camp:us. I encourage everyone to take the initiative, as they have done. to work to obtain their goals. I would also encourage students to approach their class reps. or the future President .and use these positions for the benefit for all. I would like to start a new generation of leadership~ 1 will maximize ,the Student Forum's potential by bringing a new, energetic and independent perspective to this .office based on my knowledge and leadership in the past. I would appreciate your vote on Friday. Thank you! BLAINE LANGBERG Finally, the snow is gone, the sun is shining, and it's Student Forum election time! I, Blaine Langberg, would like to take a moment of your time to tell you why you should vote for me to become Student Forum President. The firSt and most important reason that I should receive your vote is experience. I have served as Vice President of my Freshman class, as well as President of my Sophomore class. Serving in these positions has taught me how the student government operates. I will be able to use this past experience to efficiently implement the plans which student Forum agrees upon. In addition, I also participated in the Student Affairs Council. With this organization. I worked closely with key members of the administration and faculty, as well as members of the student body, in creating the Gmelch Report, which will dictate the policy ·Of Residence Life for years to come. Furthermore, I · will not hesitate to utilize the power which accompanies this position. Student Forum is a very influential organization which exists in order to address the needs and desires of the student body. In recent years Student Forum has demonstrated its ability to effect change, as in establishing Chet's as a social alternative. Under my administration, Student Forum will continue this tradition of activism by playing an increasing large role in making key policy decisions. Lastly, I deserve your vote because I will represent the interest of everyone in the student body. Mine will not be an administration where twenty individuals speak for two thousand students. I will be open and available to any ideas or concerns which you, as the student body express. After a year of absence, due to a Term Abroad, I am eager to return to the Student Forum and I hope that you will share my enthusiasm for tangible progress and efficient leadership in the year to come. If you want experience, motivation, and responsiveness in you Student Forum PI:esident. vote for Blaine! BILL NOOK My name is Bill Nook and I am presently Vice President of the Junior Class. I am running for Student Forum President because I feel that have the experience and the drive to represent the entire Unioa College student body. Having sat on the Forum for the past year, I have gained valual>1e hands-on experience througlt interacting with the administration and my fellow students. There are several pressing issues, such as off campus housing, an adequate training room for non-varsity athletes, and the new value-dine system, I believe need to be addressed next year. I will fight for you on behalf of theses issues and the many more that will arise next year. I hope for your support! ,. ' . ~ ~ :- J \. I!, .. .. j '~ -: \ . \ PETER C. SAVAGE JR. Student Forum President is not a popularity contest, you must hear what the candidates have to say~ look at their records for getting things done, and vote accordingly. My name is Peter Savage, and I am a candidate for President of Your Student Forum. The President is responsible for the well-being of the whole student body, Male/Female, Independent orOreek. Over the past year, there have been a number of tllings accomplished under Alex Sklavos. Among the most impressive is the Mentor Progwn. In the fall, there was a suggestion in a town meeting from one of you that there needed to be a follow-up to Orientation. Alex asked me, the Junior Class President, to look into it. Throughout winter term information was sought from many other schools about similar programs. Through my efforts, and that of the new committee, next fall, the implementation of the Mentor Program will be complete. Other changes brought al>out from your suggestions include the up-campus re-paving project where I was responsible for getting the pressure on the administration to get it done, alterations to the Chct's fonnat and an amendment to the Student Forum Constitution, just to name a few. Throughout my t.enllrc on the Student Affairs C()uncil and as Your Junior Class President, I have learned how the Administrative part of Union College works and how to work within it to get the things you want a<:complishcd. The fact of the l'llatter is you need someone wh() will listen to what Xilll. have to say and will make things happen. I assure you that I am the best person for the job and I ask JON MILLER The time has come again for you to elect yotu S tudcnt Forum President. Through two years of exJJericnce on Student Forum as vice- president of my freshmen and sophomore classes, I have proven myself as someone who is dependable. dedicated. and hardworking. r have also served on th~ Finance Committee, the Campus Safety Committee, and been involved in m<1ny campus activities. I will msure that I represent the interests of the student body. I lmow how this campus works and I know how to get things done. WNIOR TRUSTEE MICHAEL ROTHSTEIN I ask for your vote because I want to be your Student Trustee of Union College. Since my arrival at Union College I have tak.e11 advantase of the many availa\)le opportunities. The size of our college community permits intense involvement in activities and facilitates close interaction with people - probably to a greater extent than is possible at · a large school. I have found tltat students, administration, and faculty were and are willing to work with me and this gave me a chance to develop my abilities. As a result I am eager to give something back to the comm11nity. I want to make a difference. Every activity I join is important to me and I never participate halfheartedly. I started at the radio station as a disc jockey and within a couple of months became the News Director. Soon thereafter, while still ~ freshman, I became the Business Manager and a member of the Executive Board. I have continued as Business Manager as a sophomore because I feel I can still make a difference. During my participation on the board we have revamped the station by reactivating the news broadcastin,g room and initiated modernization of the station's facilities. I personally researched and adopted a new news service system, which is more efficie11t while costing 50% less than the system it reploced. This past fall I was selected to be a member of the Finance Committee of the Student Forum. As s.uch I personally advise and supervise the financial officers of thirteen student groups, a.nd with the other members of the Finance Committee I appl\()ve student activity budgets •md allocate funds for student ()organizations. While filling this ro1e I have become familiar witb a number of those organizations and worked with students whose interests differ from mine. By working with the radio station and tile Finance Committee I have honed my ability to analyze problems and communicate id~as. Both activities have required collaboration with my fellow students as we 11 as with members of the administration and faculty. In the course Clf reviewing organization bt1dgets and funding requests I realized that many of the student organizations lack controls. As a result, every year or two they seek funcls to replace items which have \disappeared.\ I prepared a proposal which is now being implemented by tile Office of

Student Affairs which, essentially, provides for central storage facilities and assigns responsibility to specific individuals. Funds will now be available to acquire new, rather than replacement, equipment for student use. I have been accepted as a resident assistant for my junior year. Because of my experience with campus activities and both donnitory and fraternity life, I expect to provide guidance and stability for the dormitory residents. I will help those residents and Union by encouraging their participation in college activities. My actions and accomplishments have proven that I am ready and able to handle a position of responsibility. I have earned the support of students and administrators who have learned that I attack problems head on and deliver what I promise as solutions. I have demonstrated that I am responsible and that I will be a capable Union College Student Trustee. ~ f<: I \ I MICHAEL QUINN Hello, my name is Michael Quinn and I am running for the position of Junior Trustee. This is an extremely important position in that the Junior Trustee acts as the voice of the student body at trustee meetings. It is in these meetings that major school policies and changes are discussed. Obviously the importance of having a representative who is eager to present the student's wishes is essential. As a class representative on Student Forum I have come to appreciate the wide variety of ideas and opinions that the students I represent have put forth. We are all part of a community and we must all ensure that it is a college with enough diversity so there is a place for everyone. The next few years will be critical ones for Union. Colleges throughout the Northeast are changing rapidly and many of the same difficult questions facing them will have to be addressed here at Union as well. The Trustees of Union will be an intricate part of this process and the students must know that they will be properly and accurately represented. I think most ·Of us would agree that Union is a place with a great deal to offer, yet we must not let ourselves be passively content. Things can always be improved, and together we can make Union a better place for all. JUNIOR TRUSTEE LISAND RA RAMOS Junior Trustee is a job that entails representing the vast concerns and issues facing the entire campus community to the Union College Board of Trustees. I lcnow that I have the ability to be a good liaison between the Union Community and the Trustees. I am not only co11cerned with ensuring that our concerns are heard by the Trmstees, but I will work hard to see that these concerns are met by the Administration. 1 have been very active on campus since my first ~ear at Union. Presently, I am the Co-Chair of the African and Latino Alliance of Students, member of Mountebanks, AIDS committee, General Assessment Committee, and the Orientation Committee. I have learned a lot from working on these committees and organizations. I feel that the experience I have gained will enable me N> relay the concerns of the entire Union College cornmuoity. With this in mind vote for Lisandra Ramos, your roncerns are ours. ' ' ';':~1<~ ' ' _I~ \&~~ii:~ '\,'~c)hj~l ' \~)· • NATE COFFIN Candidate .for Junior Representative to the Board of Trustees. As I approach tile end of my second year at Union. I reflect upon the countless enriching experiences that tllis institution has afforded me. Indeed, this school has tile JlOtential to offer its students a variety of invaluable resources and opportunities that can help to shape ()Ur futures, Nonetheless, the Union community f.aces many issues, concerns, and. problems as it nears its BicenteMial. From social policy tOo diversity, parking problems to finances. we the stude11t body encounter these issues every <lay. The position of Junior Representative to the Board of Trustees provides .a vital liaison between the decision makers and those of us who are affected by their decisions. The opinions and views of the student body are crucial in the establishment of a successful and united college. At the same time, i1 is essential that the students be aware of how the administration and Board of Trustees ue adc:lr:essing irnportmt issues. Thus far at Union, I have committ-ed myself to making a difference. In my personal, academic, and extracurricular endeav()J'S, I have sought to both chlalleng~ myself and benefit my peers. As a membe1• of the Peer Facilitator Program, I have been exposed to many- current social issues here at U11ion, and have sought to promote discussion and awarene;:;s of these issues on campus. In my capacity as budget representative for the Peers, f have also had the opportullity to address fmancial needs alld tramactions. These activitie:s :have provided me copious .eX:poerience in the fme art of listening, the lost art of responsi bHity, and the complexities of the administlmtiv.e prucess. Given tllis e'lperience, I am confident in.myability to serve you as Jmnior Representative to the Boal'd of Trustees. I look forward to the IJOssibility of representing you in tllis capacity,. With your support, I will strive f()r dialogue, change, and a better Union. THOR ALEXANDER BEN ANDER LONG, BUT NECESSARY I recently read an article about a young entrepreneur from Milwaukee who went to Vietnam with an innovative idea for brade. Knowing no one in Saigon., fue checked into a local hotel and began to search for the chamber of commerce. After three weary days of hand signals, he discove:red that Saigon dresn't 1lave a chamber of commerce. Dejected, he parked hlimself behind the bar of a beat up saloon and began to drink himself into a puddle. A tears and beers story, if you will. rile bmtender, who spoke some English, asked him what was wrong. and the man be,gllll to ex]!lain, \I spent all of the mone:y l had to buy a ticket her-e. I have 'l great idea, and I knmv it could work, if only I kiLew where to look .•. .'' By a str~Jke ·of luck, it seems, the bartender's brother-in-law worked for the Department of Trade, and be set up an appointment for the young man the next day. The rest is history; tile man sealed up a deal wftll the bartender's brother-in-law. and is now exportin~ over six hundred thousand units to .the Pacific Rim at 'large. When asked what the key was, he didn't llesi tate, \Communication. All it took was a guy who spoke a !little English, a connecti()n, and a couple of beers- altllough the beers are optional.\ Here a.t Unio11, there are serious gaps in communication, primarily where the Board of Trustees are involved. Put yourself in their situation. You're fifty five years old, perhaps an excellent businessperson. You have a spouse, the kids are all grown up and moved away. You might be a grandparent. You went to college in the late fifties. You have little contact with the school at ,large, save the fancy luncheons and warm greetings you get from President Hull and the rest of the Administration when you visit. You don't know any current students, although you enjoy saying hello to the better dressed ones while on your way to the Milano Lounge. How are you supposed to understand the students? How can you empathize with their situation? How can you relate to two thousand young adults when the only contact you have with them is conveyed by the Administration? How would you get along with your parents if you had to send all communication through the Dean, subject to his approval? The Board of Trustees are our parents while we go here. They, in that capacity, genuinely want what is optimal for us. Our communication, however, has been limited at best. The only instance I know of where students were involved with Trustees was in the situation of the new theater. To summarize: Trustee Morton H. Yulman had given up on the idea of funding a theater, when he was approached by six students. In the course of about an hour, they convinced him of the plan's merit, and he donated a hefty $3 million to the project. The Yulman theater begins construction this spring. President Hull was quoted as saying \It's the first time I've ever had to use students to get money.\ In my opinion, he should use us more. As far as my credentials go, I'm pretty annoyed to have to list them, but I realize that it's necessary. I founded, and now run the Video Store. I'm the President of Inner View, the Film and Video Society. I'm on the executive board of the Film Committee, am on the Crosstalk committee, was Director of the Student Programming Board, and was an officer in my fraternity. I do plays for Mountebanks and the Arts Department, write film and music reviews for Concordi and am in the Pre- Law Society. We are the students of the college. We are the recipients of the benefits. With so much negative sentiment about Union among it's students, it is time to make a change. Don't be satisfied .to get an Alumni mailing in ten years asking for a donation and to laugh and think, \yeah right, that place sucked.\ Take the time to make a difference for your Alma Mater. Increase the amount of communication between your fellow students and your (in loco parentis) Board of Trustees. ANTONIO VIVA My name is Antonio Viva and I am running for the office of Junior Represenatitive to the Board of Trustees. After becom.ing involved with various actii vties a11d organizations at Union, I am enthusiastic at the possibilty cof being a student representative to the Board. I feel that Illy involvement as a member ·CDf the Finance Committe, as well as House Steward a11d Corresponding Secretary for .the Sigma Phi Society~ have given me the responsibilty necessary to fullfil this position. My involvement in the Dutch Pipers, and other similar activites gives me the diversity needed to hold such an offic.e. I'm not here to rattle off why- I think I should be elected. I am giving you my promise that if elected, I will, to the best of my abilty perform the duties that such a position entails. I ask you to become involved in what happens here at Uni<Jil, and take this opportunity to elect those students you feel can do the best job. Thanks for your time. HALLIE HELLER For those of you who don•t know me, my name is Halli.e Heller and I am running for the position of Junior Trustee. For the past two years, I hav.e represented my class on th.e Student Forum as President. 1 have served on the Studellt Affairs Council and the Campus Safety Committee. Im addition, I have been very active as a Gatekeeper, :a member of SADD, and am committed to various othe.r activities. I have had a grellt deal of experience worki:nll with faculty as well as the student body on importarut issues that are relevant to eacll one of us. I believe that tl\e position of Junior Trustee requires this type of extensive involvement in the campu:s community. I know that I have the qualities necessary to fulfill the responsibilities a f this position. As always, I will work hard to ensure tha.t the goals of the student body are met. 1 l l i

I .I I V.P. ADMINISTRATION My name is Bill WoU:f and I am a junior running for Student Forum Vice-President for Administration. The Vice- President for Administration bas two main responsibilities: firstly, to direct the Committee on Committees, which makes sure that the various school committees and clubs are operating to their fullest potential, and secondly. to assume the responsibilities of President of Student Forum in the President's absence. As a result of being a Resident Assistant for the past two years, I have had the opportunity to learn and work with the administration and the rest of the campus in a forum that conduces learning and the enhancement of personal responsibility. In addition, being a member of the Union community for three years, I have had the opportunity to experience Union as its policies, attitudes, and issues have evolved. I believe that my experience as an RA, the fact that I have been extremely active in leadership roles in both the Union campus and the Schenectady community, and my three year involvement in campus activities, illustrates that I have the leadership that is needed for, and the ability to fulfill tile duties of, Student Forum Vice .. President for RACHEL SCHAFFER My mwe is Rachel SchaffeF and I am running for Vice- President of Administration. I want .(() be on the Student • Forum to ensure that the diverse groups of Union · students are all represented. I feel the Student Forum should work toward the continued improvement of both the academi~ and social life. For example~ I would like to restart a security system by having both Greeks and Independents volunteer to escort people. I will work hard to accomplish both of these goals by contributing my time and effort. I am actively involved in various clubs and sports. I have had leadership roles in Student Government. Through these positions I have learned to be an effective leader and communicator. I believe commullication is the true way to break down barriers and integrate the various groups; freshman alld senior. black and white, and Greek and Independent. Every student at Union College should have an enjoyal>le four years. By electing me, Rachel Schaffer, as your voice, you will be using your power wisely. V.P. ACADEMICS KARLYN Hi! My name is Matt Karlyn and I am ,running for the position of Vice President of Academics for the 1993- 1994 school year. If elected, my responsibilities would include actively taking part in meetings of the Academic Affairs Committee (AAC) and reporting the details of these meetings back to the Student Forum. Pertinent issues this year have included academic honesty and gieater diversity among courses offered at Union. Next year I hope to assist in developing a policy for dealing with academic honesty. In additi()n, I am very much in favor of J5inding a way to expand the amount of culturally diverse courses offered at Union. I hope that my involvement at Union can help me as Vice- President of Academics if I am elected. Currently, I serve as News Editor of the Concordiensis and as a Gatekeeper. I have also been inv.olved with student tutoring in Scllenectady and I have been on two terms away, one in Washington D.C. and the other in Japan. The Student Forum should be a body of students committed to representing the Union College community. If elected, I hope t!Jat I can aid in accomplishing tllis. A goal of mine is to help f()ster a close~ relationship between the Student Forum md the Student Body. This would enable students a better opportunity to voice their opinions and concerns about U11ion and have their voices heard by not only the Student Forum, but also by the Faculty and Administration. H elected, as your V.P. of Academics, I want to represent your beliefs so that we c~n aU work together for a better Union. This is my ideal goal and I would very m ud1 appreciate your vote on Friday. Thank You! BRIAN SCHOLL competitive class. Other students receive high grades because of relatively less competition or .from teachers who do not follow Administration policy. My main goal on this issue is the establishment of a fair and consistent policy that does not impede students from achieving their goals. 2. According to the 1992-93 Academic Register, only Ancient, European and American history and literature/civilization courses fufill Gen.ed requirements. This is a racist policy that must be changed to consider all cultures. 3. Simply, I feel that education should take priority over restoration of the Nott. 4. I am currently in the.. preliminary stages of designing a progran1 to educate students about current concerns and and issues facing the the American economy and political structur.e. I hope to fully develop and implement this program regardless of the outcome ofthis ellection. My ultimate goal is to use the power of office to ensure that each student recieves the education that she or he has been promised either as Vice- l President for Academics or as Sovhmore class treasurer. As a candidate for Vice- President for Academics I Pledge to W()rk towards improving the entire educational expirence at Union College. If el.lected I shall address the following issues: J-., 1. The Adrn inistration's : .. \acedemic crackdown\ has i.'-'. coaxed teachers into giving grades which 11nfairly reflect the performance and achievement of their students. Some students. receive low marks merely because they fall on a particular spot on a statistical curve or happen to be placed in a highly V.P. FINANCE ROB DUPUY Hi, I am Rob DuPuy and I am running for the position of Vice President of Academics. As an active member of the Union community I feel that I am aware of the needs of the students and am open to new ideas for change. As Vice President of Academics I know I would be able to accurately represent the student voice on the Academic Affairs Council and be an active participant on your student forum. I know I would bring new ideas to the position and help to improve Union from the students' perspective. On Friday, April 30th it is very important that everyone voices their opinion and votes. Please support Rob DuPuy as the new Vice President of Academics. PATRICK HASKELL My Fellow Students, I, Patrick Haskell, am calling upon you for your support in this Friday's election. By electing me to the Student Forum as the Vice- President of Finance, you will be electing an active member of the campus community that wants to make a difference in Union's Future. As treasurer of my Fraternity, I oversee a budget in excess of $150,000 per year. This experience of handling the day in and day out problems which arise when dealing with a large budget gives me an excellent idea of some of the problems that I might face if I were to be elected to the Student Forum. As an energetic. socially consci()US member of the college community, I will work to make my vote on the Student Forum matter. I am a member of the Greek community, but I am able to look at iss11es and consider the Pro's and Con's as they affect both Greeks and independents, women ami men, and people of varying ethnic backgrounds. The future of Union College needs t() include all groups in order to m!iX.imize our potential as a community. Thanlc you, and VOTE FOR PATRICK HASKELL 94' for VICE- PRESIDENT OF FINANCE! SETH BROWN My name is Seth Brown and I am currently President of the Class ()f 1996. Over a year ago I made a decision to come to Union. When I arrived in the fall, I found most things to my satisfaction. Of course, through the year. I discovered some things that I disliked. Fortunately, I believe Union to be a place where students can voice their ·opinions and be heard. I have seen many upperclassmen complain about Union, yet few put up reasonable efforts to fix what ills tllem. The constant excuses: we don't have any power, the administration will never listen, and who cares - I'm graduating soon, will not cut it. The point is that the administration has to listen. We are the ones who are paying to get an education - paying them. This is our school and possibly the best years ()f our life; our .goals and aspirations about college and college life have to be heard. I ran for Student Government in the fall because I want people to hear my opinions, and believe me, whell I see something that is not right, I have no qualms about trying to change it. I joined Chet's Committee because I feel that Union must have social alternatives to fratemity parties. . I joined Dini11g Services Committee because I want to be able to eat on campus instead of ordering pizza every nigllt. I helped organize an awareness week for the atrocities in Bosnia because I wan ted people to know what was going on outside of Union and I wanted to help those who are less fortunate. I jomed the Campus Action Committee because I feel that there are things at Union that are not right, and need to be changed. I am going to be an ItA. next year because I want to encourage Union students to think and voice their opi.Itions as I have. And I help admissions because I feel that every person deserves to hear what Union has to offer. Therefore, I would like to remain on the ~tudent Forum next year as Vi<:e-President ~,.~ .... - ......... --------- Finance. I am highly motivated, very enthusiastic, and although strongly opinionated I am always open to new ideas. I am not one to sit around complaining about how things sh()uld be, 1 make them the way 1 want them to be. If there is anything that I hope you learn from my speech, it is to get involved. If you donit like something, · change it. Be an individual, for everyone bas opinions and we all have riglits but by not voting, not becoming involved and not standing up for what you believe, you are destroying all of these things. I want to preserve them - please vote Seth Brown for V .P. of Finance on Friday, April 30th.

T~ Student Net,v$paper of Union College Since IB71 Schenectady~ N~w Yotic. · April· 29, 1993 Editor-in-Chief Executive Editor News Editors Features Editors Arts Editors Sports Editor Business & Finance Editor · Science& Health Editor News Analysis Editor World News Editor · Campus News Editor Layout Editors Copy Editor Photo Editur Advertising :Editors David J..ey,fue : : Deb Mcinerney Matt Karlyn, Caroline Paille · Doug Bartell, Erin O'Neil · Belinda Crago,. Talley Bel.sbtger • ·. Niki Goldin · Dagan La Corte Dylan Ratigan · Eileen Colkin . Veronica Rogers · · Craig Greenberg ·• Kate Cartland Lisa Lem~i. Buffy Rubenstein Heather Reynolds Brianna Patnode . Sharon Smith. ·Fran GoldStein.· . · JodieAd!mls. OP'EN THE •. L:INS·:s·op· .• · ·COMMUNICAT'IO·N··. One of the most glal'ing \\f'eal<tresses of life qn I ·the Union CoU~ge ca.mpHlS ...•. i:s the· . tack··.· of. diversity that . students.·,' enc:o:un.ter .. Unfortuneately, · like people ·ten(f,:to stay • ·together. Anyone who :eats in any of the dining· halls sees this phenomena every day. This certainly do.es not imply that there . are radat .• tensions between students at ·union; but apparently not enough is being done to foster interracial mingling. . . A.L.A.S., as pas been reported by The .. Concordiensis, \has been angered witl}: ,the lac~. .of A,dn1inistrational concer~ over· Qpe~ng: the\· 'lines of communication' . between :m.inority groups and the .rest ofth~ college: campus. -. . The apparent lack of concern; (,)r Jreshness in. ideas, $ymptotnatic· .. of the . g~·owing . racial-. · problem~ ln .the- United States, sh.ouid be ·of major concern to . the • AdmiriistratiQl\ .. ·President· Hull · ·should ·. outline his · own . initiatives :and en2oura..g,e a-nd fund gro~ps such . as Peer Facilitators.·. The·· fl!ndhig tor suclt ·groups · sbould . U()t cotti~ . solely · from · th~ ; SttJ.dent Attivitie$ Fee; b1:tt should benefit fr.om:J Administrational supp.o:rt,' ff~· ··1n · fact, ~ .tl'l~. adminis.tra:tion is truly _ ~onc·e.rn~d. witll rectifying · the problems. · · the· probl~ms hatv$ · . changed, and ·it seems as though every member of the Union .College· comml.lnitj',• except ;thit: Administration, is· aware, ol. the developtnetttS,.: .-: · In lieu of the fact that students Jl:ave :made.: many efforts ·to promote diversity, Pre.sident( Hull should heed their calls £6~ · change, a;nd now wouldnJt. be a bad time.,to start. · · Associate Photo Editors Associate Sports EditQrS Associate Editor Opinions columnist ~ager - Subscription Manager Computer Manager Senior Edit()fial Advisors Senior Financial Advisor Senior Sports Advisors Faculty Advisor .. . . , I . ·. . .. , . . .Josh Hai~Jes, scott Steele Lee Schachter, Greg KaliSh David Fischer.· ·Beth Ufron · · Rachel !<est·· Matt Grabowski · · Brett SaunderS\ Ed Walley, Lara Chamberlain · Pam Leinson Hal P()tet,. Rich Morgan Scott Scullion Staff Writers : Thor Benander, Bruno Benzaquen. Michelle Ellis, Alex Kreisler, Alexis Leist, Pam Lin, Heather Manley. Craig Pike, Christoph Ringwald, Michelle Rosenbaum. SUBMISSIONS : All submissions to The Com:ordiensis are . due the Tuesday before publication at 4 P.M •. if they are submitted on either Macintosh Microsoft Word disks or MS-Dos Microsoft Word disks. Otherwise all submissions are due ·Monday by 4 ,p~M. in the drop box outside of the Concordienis office on the third fl~r of the College Center. . I -·- PHI BET A KAPPA UNION COLLEGE SCHENEcrADY, N. Y. 12308 1817 AlPHA OF NEW YORK April27, 1993 The U,!lion College Chapter (Alpha of New York) of Phi Beta Kappa is pleased to announce the election on April 26, 1993 of the following new members: From the Class of 1994: Jess G. Aldd Tonia K. Kim Donald Tsay Jody L. Yetzer Adam S. Zinkin From the Class of 1993: Lesley Carmichael Michael L. Collins Jennifer Drazen Kurt 0. Ebner Joshua S.H. Fausty Ann Flynn Timothy J. Fisher Saundra L. Green Wendy E. Holende:r Michael P. Johnson Stacie M. Jordan Suzanne G. Ueberman Beth Pincus HalL. Poret Jeffrey T. Roth Arnon E. Rubin Jennifer M. Schimmel Julie Shanebrook Joshua, A. Sidman Mary E. Slusarz Sreekumar Subramanian TaylorS. Trosicht Marc A. Unger Stacy C. Vogel Shea Z. Walton Jrene. Y ahia. They join the follo•wing members of the Class of 1993 elected last yeaz: Shane Dormandy Paul Gansle Jordan Matsudaira Michael Scaccia Bi:yan Selkin The the Concordiensis new Phi Beta applauds Kappas Editorials, Letters &''Disclaimers Letters to the Editor should be addres$00. to the op.,ED Page and must be received by 5 P.M. the Tuesday before pubJica:tion. Advertisememts appearing in The Concordie'nsis do not necessarily reflect. the opinion of the Editmrial Bo~d. . . . .· . . . . . Letters to the Edihor must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an tssue. that concerns; the Union College community. Final Ilecisions (:)n whetbet a submission is printed and whether · certain parts 'Of the submission are edited bel~>ngs to the Editorial Board. All letters must he signed, although the author's name need not appear in the new,spaper, if the writer so specifies. The editorial which appears on the left side of th~ page reflects the opinion of the majority of the Editori'l} Board. Any opinion columns re:flect the opinions of the wtiters~ and not necessarily th<:'l Editorial Board · · · · . . , The Coneordiensi:s is published nine Thursdays a tenn by the students of Uniom College. lt is • fu.nded in part by the Student Activities Fee. The Concordiensis, c<>pyright 1993, allligh.ts reserved.; Box 2577 .• College C(mter, Union CoUe~e, Schenectady~ NY 123m~. Telephone (518) 370 .. 6155. The Concordiensis is published by Susquehanna P(Jblieations Jnc., Box 388~. SidJiey, New Yruk, 13$38 (607) 563-8339. The Concordie11sis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (lP), Natio~al Stu<fent NewsService,.King Syndicates. . · To I the to\ rea1 phe WOl l we1 the stu Co: mo mu spe \ \ sta1 Ca fee Ha \oJ COI are libc ger ~ wh em 00 Bn be I Sk ligl sul Iw fro Un To ~ C<J stu co av Stll on ;SO the thl A< C< thl ex th: Si! thl rel re: ab co ur OI OI a~ st cc th d~ cc A m e w th ar u aJ A Ol

Qrhr <llvnrvr b irn.st.s The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenectady, New York April 29, 1993 Editor-in-Chief Executive Editor News Editors Features Editors Arts Editors Sports Editor Business & Finance Editor Science & Health Editor News Analysis Editor World News Editor Campus News Editor Layout Editors Copy Editor Photo Editor Advertising Editors David Levine · Deb Mcinerney Matt Kadyn, Caroline Paine Doug Bartell, Erin ONeil Belinda Crago, Talley Belsinger Niki Goldin • Dagan La Corte . Dylan Ratigan Eileen Calkin , Veronica Rogers · Craig Greenberg • · Kate Cartland •' Lisa Lemoi, Buffy Rubenstein . Heather Reynolds . Brianna Patnode • Sharon Smith, Fran Goldstein Jodie Adams OPEN THE LINES OF COMMUNICATION One of the most glaring weaknesses of life on : • the Union College campus is the lack of diversity that students encounter. Unfortuneately, like people tend to stay together. Anyone who eats in any of the dining halls sees this phenomena every day. This certainly does not imply that there are racial tensions between students at Union, but· apparently not enough is being done to foster· interracial mingling. . A.L.A.S., as has been reported by The! Concordiensis, ·has been angered with the lack· of Administrational concern over opening the 'lines of communication' between minority groups and the rest of the college campus. The apparent lack of concern, or freshness in ideas, symptomatic of the growing racial problems in the United States, should be of · major concern to the Administration. J President Hull should outline his own initiatives and encourage and fund groups such i as Peer Facilitators. The funding for such groups should not come solely from the· Student Activities Fee, but should benefit from l Administrational support, if, in fact, the administration is truly concerned with rectifying the problems. The problems have changed, and it seems as though every member of the Union College community, except the Administration, is aware of the developments. In lieu of the fact that students have made ·many efforts to promote diversity, President Hull should heed their calls for change, and now wouldn't be a bad time to start. Associate Photo Editors Associate Sports Editors Associate Editor Opinions columnist Manager Subscription Manager Computer Manager Senior Editorial Advisors Senior Financial Advisor Senior Sports Advisors Faculty Advisor Josh Haines, Scott Steele Lee Schachter, Greg Kalish David Fischer Beth Lifson Rachel Kest Matt Grabowski Brett Saunders Ed Walley. Lara Chamberlain Pam Leinson Hal Poret, Rich Morgan Scott Scullion Staff Writers : Thor Benander, Bruno Benzaquen, Michelle Ell is, Alex Kreisler. Alexis Leist. Pam Lin, Heather Manley, Craig Pike, Christoph Ringwald, Michelle Rosenbaum. SUBMISSIONS : All submissions to The Concordiensis are due the Tuesday before publication at 4 P.M. if they are submitted on either Macintosh Microsoft Word disks or MS-Dos Microsoft Word disks. Otherwise all submissions are due Monday by 4 P.M. in the drop box outside of The Concordienis office on the third floor of the College Center. PHI BET A KAPPA UNION COLLEGE SCHENECTADY. N.Y. 12308 July 22 1817 ALPHA OF NEW YORK April 27, 1993 The U¢on College Chapter (Alpha -of New York) of Phi Beta Kappa is pleased to announce the election on April 26, 1993 vf the following new members: From the Class of 1994: Jess G. Alcid Tonia K. Kim Donald Tsay Jody L. Yetzer Adam S. Zinkin From the Class of 1993: Lesley Carmichael Michael L. Collins Jennifer Drazen Kurt 0. Ebner Joshua S.H. Fausty Ann Flynn Timothy J. Fisher Saundra L. Green Wendy E. Holender Michael P. Johnson Stacie M. Jordan Suzanne G. Lieberman Beth Pincus HalL. Poret Jeffrey T. Roth Arnon E. Rubin Jennifer M. Schimmel Julie Shanebrook Joshua A. Sidman Mary E. Slusarz Sreekumar Subramanian TaylorS. Trosicht Marc A. Unger Stacy C. Vogel Shea Z. Wall on Irene Yahia They join the following members of the Class of 1993 elected last year: Shane Dormandy Paul Gansle Jordan Matsudaira Michael Scaccia Bryan Selkin The the C oncordie nsis new Phi Beta applauds Kappas Editorials, Letters & Disclaimers Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP-ED Page and must be received by 5 P.M. the Tuesday before publication. Advertisements appearing in The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. Letters to the Editor must be less than 500 words and should pertain to a.n issue that concerns the Union College community. Final Decisions 011 whether a submission is printed and whether certain parts of the submission are edited belongs to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed, although the author's name need not appear i~ the newspaper, if the writer ~o. specifies. . . The editorial which appears on the left stde of tile page reflects the opmwn of the maJonty of the Editorial Board. Any opinion columns reflect the opinions of the writers, and not necessarily the Editorial Board . The Concordiensis is published nine Thursdays a term by the students of Union College. It is funded in part by the Student Activities Fee. The Concordiensis, copyright 1993, all tights reserved. ·Box 2577, College Center, Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308. Telephone (518) 370-~155. The Concordiensis is published by Susquehanna Publications Inc., Box 38S, Sidney, New York 13838 (607) 563-8339. The Concordiensis subs.cribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP), National Student News Service. King Syndicates. To I the tov rea ph€ wo l we the stu Co me mt SJX ' ' sta Ca fee Ha \ol COl are lib ge1 ' wt en1 00 Br, be l Sk lig sul Iv frc Ur Tc c( stt co av Stl on so thl th A1 0 th e~ th si: th re re al C( Ul OJ 0] a< st C< th dl Cl A rr: c w tt aJ l a: A 0

Qtht <ilJJUfDf:b i:flt.Stli The Perspective of an Alumnus To the editor: I found Jennifer Unterberg~s article on the feelings of Schenectady residents toward Union students to be interesting reading. For a' fuller understanding of the phenomenon several additional points are worth consideration: 1. Most Schenectady .residents who were interviewed wotlld probab1y agree they feel much more kinship with students at Sche11ectady County Community College : people who are more likely to live in the community for much of their lives, rather than just spending four years of their life here. 2. From personal experience, I can state that the citizens of New Haven and Cambridge have many of the same feelings about students at Yale and Harvard. The blunt fact ,is that most \older\ people are politically and socially conservative, while most Union students are (relatively) politically md socially liberal. This is much more a function of generations than anything else. 3.The reactions of tb()se local citizens who are the beneficiaries of students energies--.those whose dwellings have been renovated, those enriched by the Big Brother-Big Sister env()lvement--would be vastly different from those .cited In my current hometown, students at Skidmore are seen in much the same light by the service poople who were the subject of the article. Did I mention that I was born in Schenectady, and graduated from high school there prior to entering Union? Sincerely~ William T. Allen, '59 Get Involved: Show Some School Spirit To the Editor: On behalf of the Committee on Committees, I would like to encourage students to apply for the various student committee .positio11s that are now available. I truly feel t!Jat we, as students. can have a tremendous impact on college administrative, academic, and ,social issues. by becoming involved in these organizations. C001mittees such as the· Student Affai1s Council, the Academic Affairs Council, the Finance Committee, the Conduct Committee, and the Social Committee are but a few examples of the diversity of committees that would allow us to have such a significant impact on student life. In the past year or so, students have been reluctant to apply for positions, and as a result campus wide social activities' were almost non-existent. Becoming involved in these important committees will offer students a greater understanding of how Unicn College operates, and will alsc offer students the opportunity to work closely with college administrators, professors, and other students. Presently there are 18 committees that need to be filled-making that a total of 68 available positions. A detailed descriptio11 Qf all available committees can be found in the Student Activities Office. All appointments are made by the stude11t members E)f the Committee on Committees and we would like to see all j)OSitions filled by the end of Spring term 1993. . . Once again, show some school spmt, and make your remaining year(s) at Union College memooable. Applications are now available in the Student Activities Office in CC 408, and are due on Friday May 7 by 4:30 pm. Sincerely, Evans Legros '93 Comm. on Comm. Chair LETTERS Graduati()n Speaker: The Choice Should Be Yours To the editor: As June 13, 1993 rapidly approaches, many graduating students question who ! will be speaking at their senior graduation. The .subject is rarely talked about because .few actually know how candidates are being pursued. · What actually is hapJJening at Union College is a pathetic pursuit of a so- called \high proflle'' speaker who would be willing to speak at graduation for no monetary compensation .. The selection process is easily narrowed down simply by ac:lrnowiedging those who are willing to spea.lt for free and those wh~ are not. All graduates are asked to fiU out a questionnaire which highlights their choices for a graduation speaker. The categories include weH known, television and media personalities, ·C~medians, athletes, etc. Mter the q11estiomnaires are sorted by the speakers committee, it is known what type of professional personality the ~tudents wish to speak at their graduation.. Unfortunately. the speakers committee is pressured to chose a desirable speaker whiCh many seniors may have recommended; but they are only able to seriously consider those wbo do not require a fee. What this all comes down to is not a matter of who would best be suitable to speak at the 1993 graduation, but ratller who <;an be convinced to do so free of charge. When the student's opi11ions are actually evaluat-ed, it is made quite clear that graduates wish to have a speaker who will make a lasting impression on their lives. College graduation only happens once is a student's life, and it should be ~joyous and memorable event. Lack ()[ a pmper speaker will not only make graduate!; feel unimportant, but it will also make parents question why their c~ild's graduating class is being addressed by an individual whose qualifications are strii;tly based on monetary factors. After paying dose to ninety thousand dollars for an education, don't you think that Ullion students deserve a speaker who will not only hold the attention of parents and friends, but who will also be memorable to them? If a desirable speaker is charging a fee to speak at the 1993 graduation. wouldn't graduates and parents rather contribute monetarily to be able to get that remarkable speaker? If those wishing to attend graduation were required to purchase an admission ticket for a l()W fee, maybe then the funds could be raised to afford a desirable speaker. Unfortunately~ at this late time and date, it is probably too close to June 13th to find an appealing speaker who is able to come to Union's 1993 graduation. We, as students, must accept whomever has been chosen, but we do not have to like it. Maybe it would be a good idea now for the class of 1994 to begin soliciting parenis, graduates. and alumni in order to raise. the funds which would enable them to get the speaker they all desire and deserve. Sincerely, Pamela Leinson '93 Stop the Negative Campaigning Dear Editor: I am writing this letter to address the blue signs that were \illegally\ posted (they were not stamped by tbe Student Activities Office) in the College Center on Tuesday of this week that referred to Presidential Debate for Student Forum candidates that will be held tonight at 8pm in the College Center. Permission was not sought of the co-chairpersons for the displaying and defacing of the minutes. Alone these two incidents are wrong. However~ they are not tile issue of this letter. There is no nee.d whatsoever for negative campaigning. It is irrelevant who is sponsoring the debate (the Women's Union is co-~j)()nsoring it with the Philomathean Debating Society). The debate questions are made up by the panelists (2 male studen.ts,2 professors-- 1 mate, 1 female) and the debate will be conduct.ed in proper parliamentary procedure (eacli candid&lte will have two tninutes to reS<pond to the questions). The Outing ~Club conldl bave sponsored the 'debate for all intensive purposes. But even if one were to consider that the Women's Union is supporting a certain candidate -- So What?! Any gt:oup is permitted to su:pport a candidate if it so chooses. This kind of politics always has existed ~i.e. fraternities). Consider for a moment how the national Presidential debate is :rum. The Women's League of Voters sponsors that debate every year! ! There is nothing wrong with Union, our prelude to the \'real world,\ attempting to fo01low the .system we live under. In future years. th~ debate will be sponsored by the Student Forum, who was initially approached to sponsor the debate this year. :Either way, the Women's Union is not coming up with the questions or monit()ring the debate. so how can it be biased\? The panel is completely in charge: of the debate. Come 7:59pm tonight, the Women's Union has nothing more to do with the debate except to feel :pleased that it contributed to part olf the democratic process at Union. I feel that those who jumped to conclusions and/or felt that the debate would be unfair becamse the Women's Union was coatributin.g the money for the food and the videotaping, etc. should have found out how the debate was to be held before acting irresjJ<>nsibly. Even more importantny. I would like to express my dismayed over the negative campaigning. We should all concentrate on the candidates, theiir qualifications, and the issues. Nothimg more nothing less. Please come to the debate tonight and then vote on Friday! Sincerely, Jody Yetzer £94 co-chairperson of Women's U:nion A Point Well Taken Misdirection of Funds-: To The Editor: This letter is intendoo to point out the deplorable condition of the wei~ht lifting facilities available at th.e Alumm Gym. I am have been told ti::ill!e and time again that if the admini;tration acts in disaccord with the wishles of the students, this is because they were uninformed as to what the students wuted. Therefore, I intend to make the true condition of the facilities known in hopes that after such a disclosure and plea for help, the situation can be remedied. When I say that the administration may be acting in disaccord with the wishes of the students, my point is that it seems blatantly obvi<lus that the weight lifting facilities are at the bottom of the funding priority list. This is in disaccord because these facilitie!i seem to be at the top of the popularity li:st for the students. Anyone who disa~rees with this statement need only visit the weight room around 4:00P.M. any afternoon to witness this overcrowded and cramped environment. However, if the debate is over the condition of the equipment, which r believe to be >despicable, a visit any time of the d;ay will provide indisputable evidence. One will note the solitary, semi-function.al exercise bicycle where there once were three. If you happen to see the small bit of empty April29, 1993, page 9 space that exists in the middle of the nautilus room, be aware that was the location of the former stair machine that endured all·of one term. There seems to be a trend of buying low quality. inexpensive equipment which due to frequent use inevitably breaks and is of no use to anyone. As for the free weight room, the benches are torn, the pads are loose, the equipment is incomplete and the room is too small. While it would certainly be ideal if the school would agree to build a new, attractive facility that seems too much to ask. In the least. I would hope that the equipment which is damaged could be repaired or replaced. The mere fact that it has worn out attests to the frequent use that it receives from both students and faculty alike. Do the right thing. Start spending money on the things the students want rather than the things it is supposed they want. I would like to see some of the funds that come from the students directed to the things they use and in this case, this thing is quite clear. Chris Sears A New Coalition Called SPECfRUM Dear Editor: Continuing the momentum that the AL.A.S. (African and Latino Alliance of Students) has ignited, we are currently focusing on the creation of a coalition of Union College organizations, which would be called SPECTRUM. Its purpose would be to unite the various clubs who are working towards a more diverse and cohesive community. SPECTRUM would formulate open lines of communication among its members and promote more involvement in students' efforts to these ends. This is necessary simply for the fact that there ~eems to be an unawareness among each organizations' plan of action. We are calling on all organizations to band together under the umbrella of SPECTRUM, and join the ongoing struggle for diversity. If interested, please contact Angela Rudolph at x4295 or Carrie Watson at x6967. In conjunction with the Action Committee's efforts, a town meeting is tentatively scheduled for Tuesday. May 11th at 8:00pm in the College Center. We encourage everyone to come and raise their consciousness and that of the community. about what has happened in the recent months and what is still to come. Join us on the front lines of action by getting involved, speaking out, and fighting for a more inclusive environment. Rubes® Cru1ora S~rdc&1a. Inc 0 1993 Leigh Rubinl Scott Corley Carrie Watson '96 '94 By Leigh Rubin

Qrhr <l1vnrDrb i:rtt.sin The Perspective of an Alumnus To the editor: I founcl Jennifer Unterberg's article on the feelings of Schenectady residents toward Union students to be interesting reading. For a fuller understanding of the phenomenon several additional points are worth consideration: 1. Most Schenectady residents who were interviewed would probably agree they feel much more kinship with students at Schenectady County Community College : :people who are more likely to live in tbe community for much of their lives, rather than just spending four years of tlleir life here. 2. From personal elC.perience, I can state ~hat ~he citizens of New Haven and Cambridge have ma.ny of the same feelings about students at Yale and Harvard. The blunt fact is that most \older\ people are politically and socially conservative, while most Union students are (:Felatively) politically and socially liberal. This is much rn()re a function of generations than anythin..g else. 3.The reactions of those local citizens who are the beneficiaries of students energies--those whose dwellings have been renovated, those enriched by the Big B:Fother-Big Sister envolvement--would be vastly different from those cHed. In my current hometown, students at Skidmore are seen in much the same light by the service poople who were tile subject &f the article. Did I mention that I was born in Schenectady, and graduated from high school there :prior to entering Union? Sincerely, William T. Allen, '59 Get Involved: Show Some School Spirit To the Editor: On behalf of the Committee on Committees, I would like to encourage students to apply for the various student committee positions that are now available. I truly feel that we, as students~ can have a tremendous impact on college administrative, academic, and . social issues by becoming involved in these organizations. Committees such as the Student Affairs Council, the Academic Affairs C<>ullcil, the Finance Committee, the Conduct Committee, and the Social Committee are but a few examples of the diversity of committees that would allow us to have such a significant impact on stlldent life. In the past year or so, students have been reluctant to apply for JX>Sitions, and as a result c!llllpus wide social activities were almost non-existent. Becoming involved in these important committees will offer students a greater understanding of how Union College operates, and will als<l offer students the opportunity to work closely with college administrators, professors, and other students. Presently there are 18 committees that need to be filled-making that a total of 68 available positions. A detailed descriptio11 of all available committees can be fo11nd in the Student Activities Office. All appointments are made by the studernt members of the Committee on Committees and we would like to see all positions filled by the end of Spring term 1993. Once again, show some school spirit, and make your remaining year(s) at Union College memotable. Applications are now available in the Student Activities Office in CC 408, and are due on Friday May 7 by 4:30pm. Sincerely, Evans Legros '93 Comm. on Comm. Chair LETTERS Graduation Speaker: The Choice Should Be Yours To the editor: As June 13, 1993 rapidly approaches, many graduating students qt~estiolil who will be speaking at their senior graduation. The subject is nuely talked about because few actu!llly know how candidates are being purs!led. What actually is hap)Jelling at Union College is a pathetic pllrsl!it of a so- called \high profile\ speaker who would be wilHng to speak at graduation for no monetary compensatioll. Th.e selection process is easily narrowed c:lown simply by acknowledging those who are willing to speak for free and those wllo are not. AU graduates are asked to fill out a questionnaire which highlights their choices for a graduation speaker. The categories include well known television and media personalities, comedians, atllletes, etc. After the q11estionnaires are sorted by the speakers committee, it is known what type of professional personality the students wish to speak at their graduation. Unfortunately, the s~ers committee is pressured to chose a desirable speaker which many seniors may have recommended; but they are only able to seriously consider those who do not require a fee. What this al'l comes down to is not a matter of wh<J would best be suitable to speak at the ~~~3 graduation, but rather who can be comvinced to do so free of charge. When the student's oiJinions are actually evaluated, it is rna(Je quite clear that graduates wish to have a speaker who will make a lasting impression on their lives. College graduation only happens once is a studellt's life, and it should be a joyous and Dlemorable event. Lack of a proper speaker will not only make graduates feel unimportant, but it will also make parents qtiestion why their child's graduating; class is being addressed by an individual whose qualifications are strictly based on monetary factors. After paying close to ninety thousand dollars for an education,. don't you think that Union students deserve a speaker who will not only hold the attention of parents and friends, but who will also be memorable to them? If a desirable speaker is charging a fee to speak at the 1993 graduation, wouldrl't graduates and parents rather contribute monetarily to be able to get that remarka.ble speaker? If those wishing to attend ~raduation were required to purchase an admission ticket for a low fee, maybe then the funds could be raised to afford a desir!lble speaker. Unfortunately, at this late time and date, it is probably too c1lose to June 13th to find an appealing speaker who is able to come to Union's 19<)3 graduation. We, as students, must accept whomever has been chosen, but we c:lo not have to like it. Maybe it would be a good idea now for the class of 1994 to begin soliciting parents, graduates, and alumni in order to raise the funds which would enable them to get the speaker they all desire and deserve. Sincerely, Pamela Leinson '93 Stop the Negative Campaigning Dear Editor: I am writing this let~er to address the blue signs that were ... illegally\ posted (they were not stamped l>y the Student Activities Office) in thte College Center on Tuesday of this week. tltat referred to Presidential Debate for St!ldent Forum candidates that will t:,e held tonight at 8pm in the College Center. Pennission was not sought of.the cc-chairpersons for the displayjng and !(!efacing of the minutes. Alone these two incidents are wrong. However, they are not the issue of this letter. There is no need whatsoever for negative campaigning. It is irrelevant who is sponsoring the debate (the Women's Union is co-sponsoring it with the Philomathean Debating Society). The debate questions are made up by the panelists (2 male s~udents, 2 professors -- 1 male, 1 female) and the debate will be conducted in proper parliamentary procedure (each candidate will have two J,]linutes to respond to the questions). The Outing Club could have sponsored the debate for all intensive purposes. But even if one were to consider that the Women's Union is supporting a certain candidate -- So What?! Any group is permitted to support a candidate if it so chooses. This kind of politics always has existed (i.e. fraternities). Consider for a moment how the national Presidential debate is run. The Women· s League of Voters sponsors that debate every year!! There is nothing wrong with Union, our prelude to the .. real world,\ attempting to foHow the system we live under. In futtlfe years, the debate will be sponsored by the Student Forum. who was initially approached to sponsor the debate this year. Either way, the Women's Union is not coming up with the questions or monitoring the debate, so how can it be biased? The panel is completely in charge of the debate. Come 7:59pm tonight, the Women's Union has nothing more to do with the debate except to feel pleased that it contributed to part of the democratic process at Union. I feel that those who jumped to conclusions and/or felt that the debate would be unfair because the W<lmen's Union was contributing the money for the food and the videotaping, etc. should have found out how the debate was to be held before acting irresponsibly. Even more importantly, I would like to express my dismayed over the negative campaigning. We should all concentrate on the candidates, their qualifications, and the issues. Nothing more nothing less. Please come to the debate tonight and then vote on Friday! Sincerely, Jody Yetzer •94 co-chairperson of Women's Union A Point Well Taken Misdirection of Funds: To The Editor: This letter is intended to point out the deplorable condition of the weight lifting facilities available at the Alumni Gym. I am have been told time and time again that if the administration acts in disaccord with the wishes of the students, this is because they were uninfom1ed as to what the students wanted. Therefore, I intend to make the true condition of the facilities known in hopes that after such a disclosure and plea for help, the situation can be remedied. When I say that the administration may be acting in disaccord with the wishes of the students. my point is that it seems blatantly obvious that the weight lifting facilities are at the bottom of the funding priority list. This is in disaccord because these facilities seem to he at the top of the popularity list for the .student.s. Anyone who disagrees w1 th th ts statement need only visit the weight room around 4:00P.M. any afternoon to witness this overcrowded and cramped environment. However, if the debate is over the condition of the eqt~ipment, which I believe to be despicable, a visit any time of the day will rrovide indisputable evidence. One will note the solitary, semi-functional exercise bicycle where there once were three. If you happen to see the small bit of empty April29, 1993, page 9 space that exists in the middle of the nautilus room, be aware that was the location of the former stair machine that endured all of one term. There seems to be a trend of buying low quality, inexpensive equipment which due to freql!lent use inevitably breaks and is of no use to anyone. As for the free weight room, the benches are torn. the pads arc loose, the equipment is incomplete and the room is too small. While it would certainly be ideal if the school would agree to build a new, attractive facility that seems too much to ask. In the least. I would hope that ilie equipment which is damaged could be repaired or replaced. The mere fact that it has worn out attest-; to the frequent use that it receives from both students and faculty alike. Do the right thing. Start spending money on the things: the students want rather than the things it is supposed they wa:nt. I would like to sec some of the funds that come from the students directed to the things they usc and in this case, this thing is quite clear. Chris Scars A New Coalition Called SPECTRUM Dear Editor: Continuing the momentum that the A.L.A.S. (African and Latino Alliance of Students) has ignited, we are currently focusing on the creation of a coalition of Union College organizations. which would be called SPECTRUM. Its purpose would be to unite the various clubs who arc working towards a more diverse and cohesive community. SPECTRUM would formulate open lines of communication among its members and promote more involvement in students' efforts to these ends. This is necessary simply for the fact that there seems to be an unawareness among each organizations' plan of action. We are calling on all organizations to band together under the umbrella of SPECTRUM, and join the ongoing struggle for diversity. If interested, please contact Angela Rudolph at x4295 or Carrie Watson at x6967. In conjunction with the Action Committee's efforts, a town meeting is tentatively scheduled for Tuesday, May 11th at 8:00pm in the College Center. We encourage everyone to come and raise their consciousness and that of the community, about what has happened in the recent months and what is still to come. Join us on the front lines of action by getting involved, speaking out, and fighting for a more inclusive enviromnent. Rubes® Creot<>rs Syndlealo Inc \f _ 7 c 199~ L<igh Rubonl Scott Corley Carrie Watson '96 '94 By Leigh Rubin

April29, 1993, page 10 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Qlbr <UvnrDrb irttsis Photographers Serrano and Nixon: Destructionist vs. C.lassicist by Belinda Crago . Co . Editor of Arts Nicholas Nixon and Andres Serrano will visit Union to lecture on contemporary photography. Both will discuss their works in the College Center · Auditorium sponsored by the Department of Visual Arts; Serrano speaks on Thursday April 29 at 7:00 PM , Nixon will speak on May 4th. While Nixon is considered a black and white classicist, portraying umamed ordinary people, Serrano is known as a \deconstructionist\ color photographer who depicts bloody iconoclastic pictures including the \Piss Christ,\ a crucifix submerged in urine. Different as their work is, many critics insist both photographers \Oementine and Bebe\ by Nicholas Nixon , share a common bond that unites . · their art. Nixon and Serrano work . by instinct~ Although they are both. expert technicians, both are completely u:ninterested in technique or technology. Nixon asserts his pictures \are ways of understanding and respecting the world\ while his goal is to \photograph only what I like.\ Serrano states \I [stand] up for what I ,believe as an artist\ and · \I never intend my work to be read in only oRe way.\ Both artists prove to be more alike than different. By ,portraying realistic and shocking views of people, religion, and disease, Serrano's and Nixon's work are powerful, emotive and even contraversial. ''Leonardo . . , .Lecture _,,.,..,., ... , H ,..\..,.....,<l., .,.~,..,,... \\\'\?:••• ~t. . vs. Montezuma:'' by Sa01 Edgarton I ~ • o .. ... ,..\t'ff'l\\1 ..... ~rr-~-~l'f :w~ CHET's CoRNER Come exercise your right to vote ... hear the candidates for next year's student forum PRESIDENT ... at CHET'S tonight. The candidates will be debating TONIGHT (THURSDAY) at Spm. Ten cent wings will also be available. Tomorrow (Friday) come enjoy our happy medium with faculty and students. FREE food is available as usual. Next week CHET'S will open for its regular hours ... Monday, Wednesday, ·Thursday, and Friday. Ten cent wings will be available Monday and Thursday. Also ... Union's very own Dutch Pipers will },e performing Wednesday May 5th. Coming events ... WES'T party with Wok The Dog, Gospel and Choir reception, Economics dub Spring Fling, Battle of the Bands, and ... (t~e countdown to graduati()n continues) •. a SENIOR BASH. Keep your eyf!s posted for details. by Talley Belsinger Co-Editor of Arts ' Samuel Edgerton, a visiting Art Historian from Williams College and a scholar of Renaissance Art, delivered a lecture on Wed. April 24th titled \Leonardo vs. Montezuma\. Edgerton's discussion was focused on the direct relation between Cortez's defeat of the Aztec's and the mindset of Renaissance .society in Europe. Edgerton utilized Leonardo Da Vinci as his primary example of this newly found confidence_ which was spurring the Europeans to conquer lands and increase their reign. Looking at Leonardo's art career and all artists of the time one way to ensure one's popularity and success was to be skilled in a diversity of fields. The most sought after occupation in the art world was the art engineer. Da Vinci used his knowledge in the field of engineering and his artistic talent to design weaponry such as amphibious tanks, catapults, machine guns and tanks with revolving blades meant to kill anyone in it's path. He .also sketched plans of attack and armor . that was superior to most due to his astounding understanding of the human form. Leonardo's sketches and ideas were spread by the circulation of the printed book. This .too heightened the optimistic mentality of the Golden Age which was declared in 1507. Con'temporaries of Leonardo such as Bartolomeo and Michelangelo also contributed to the new scientific understanding of the world. Their grasp of geometrical concepts and linear pe1 specti ve diminjshed the sense of unsolvable mysteries of nature and even religion which was another major factor which lead to the invasion of Mexico by Cortez and the European Army. Edgerton's thesis was that since Cortez and Leonardo were peers in this time of discovery and enlightenment that even though both pursued different endeavors to obtain fame and success ~hey were directly . related. The leaps and bounds that Leonardo made in the field of artistic engineering strengthened the overall attitude of the Renaissance society therefore giving men like Cortez the confidence to issue an attack on the Aztecs. Edgerton addressed an interesting sub-topic, not only was he knowledgeable about the Renaissance, but he was equally informative about the Aztecs and their culture. While Cortez was a powerful military figure who was confident about his endeavors his timing of the attack was perfect. The Aztec people were ruled by the tyrant Montezuma who was the cause of much unrest within society. This was only one of three factors that caused the war to end in Cortez's' favor. The Aztec's strongly believed in the unavoidable coming of the end of the world. Therefore when Cortez and his army landed in Mexico and began their violent siege the Aztecs believed this to be the end which was anticipated and had to be..accepted. Finally the military tactics of the two armies were drastically different. The Aztecs goal was to capture, not kill, as many Europeans as possible for sacrifice. Cortez's army on the other hand desired only to kill as many natives as possible in as short. of a time period as was necessary for defeat. These three major issues crippled the Aztecs severely in their struggle to defeat Cortez, thus giving him the upper hand and finally victory. Edgerton proved that the clash of these two cultures including their world views 1 religious beliefs and mind-sets was so extreme that the downfall of the Mexicans and success of Renaissance Europe was inevitable. He stressed that Europe's power was a direct result of the mindset that artists like Leonardo Da Vinci helped promote. - - 1 Rt A, b< re ) PI sc p: e1 at w t}1 le ir b4 ' h Cl aJ Yo h b v cl e: a Sl t il p s· e l t] c a t t

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT April29, 1993, page 11 oowTITIHIJIN • JE1EA CCIHI 00 ~II'~IDrillle€li'C€ ~ was 1t really sextst? Music Review ------~~~~~~------ by Belinda Crago Co-Editor tJf Ads . The premiere of the film 'Within Reach \ .presen.ted in the College Auditorium last Thu~rsday received both plausible and controversial reviews from Union Srudents. At the Semi formal reception preceding the film, Thor Benander • • I scnptwnter, direct<Jr, head of production and co-caster enthusiastically introduced his ca;t and reasons for making the movie while deliberately withholding th~ the~e and plot of the movie. By leavmg the movie open to interpretation, \Within Reach\ caused a tremendous reaction from both sexes on Union Campus. While walking out of the hour and h~l~ film, students expressed cntiques concerning tlle production and casting of the f1lm. \The film worked well with what eqaipment he(Thor) had .according to the budget'' expressed Jay Flowers. Liz Wintrich was impressed with the cinematography- ''it wa:s excellent especially the punching bag seen~ and the scene in the Nott. The so.und. tr~ck was great too!\ Cindy ~ills ms~sted that \'~the acting was tmpress1ve and even seemed professional,\ while Pat McMullen showed interest in fhe unon-cliche ending'' that \reminded [him] of \the Last American Virgin.', After the initial positive reaction to the movie, somewhere in the crowd came the first criticism which lead to a general consensus, among women, that the movie was \sexist.\ \I thought the filming ilnd acting were great,\ stated Cory Logan, '\but I also thought it portrayed women in a bad light.\ Jen Shulkin, a cast member claimed that while ,,it was not ~ positive portrayal of women, it was an accurate one.\ \Love is blinding\ stated a:n a:nonymo11s woman '' and ·t:he fact that Ray went back to Sully in the end was realistic.\ Susan Fenchel admitted \'jit did make CB4 FAILS by Thor Benander Movie Critic Not good. Just plain not good. Not ven not-so-good. Just not good. It was so not good that [ don't even want to write about ,it. Bad story. Bad acting. Not fu111ly except for tw women look passive, but unfortunately that is part of the trained female condition.\ Other women pointed out that while Ray was portrayed as a victim, Zack was portrayed as one also. Benander reacted to the sexist cl!liin with surprise, insisting that ' 1 the weakest character were the males. Sully was a womanizing bastard and Zack was a weak pansy.\ Thor stated he'd been labelled as a chauvinist i:n the past ( in his class \FilmmakEr as an Artist\) and therefore he \didn't want to make the women weak :I I was very conscieace of this.\ When informed that Zack 's line \All women are masochistic\ indicates feminine weakness,Benander insisted that those were Zack' s words and what one particular person felt ab<>ut women in a state of depression. ''JAB people are masochistic\ Thor claims.- \By making Ray go back in the end I'm not saying all women are weak: but in this situation she was.\ Furthermore, Benand,er demonstrates, every character involved in the triangle was weak in one way or another. When asked if he ever though.t of reversing the roles so that the woman was the \power figure\ and the man the succumber, Benander gave a blunt \No!\ \I didn't want to burn myself in my first movie. I had to write. the script as I was filming it, and 1t would be more difficult to think in another sex.\ Benander chose the main character as a man \because I don't know women well enough.\ He admitted he could better relate to male characters because \everything in the movie has happened to me, or I've seen it happen. I've been the womanizer, I've been the dick, and, I've been the sympathetic one.\ He even admitted that he knew a friend who actually used the bed room lines \Who' s your Daddy?\ As for the story line, Benander chose a love triangle among Union students because, as he fervently a.t ashes of par humor. Chris Rock is funny guy, but he can't carry a . ovie. F. WRUC Top 8.97 1. Primus Pork S()da (Atlantic) 2. Screaming Trees Sweet Oblivion (Epic) 'I1ie open. 1)oor 11 wWfue 6ooltstorc . 1 :.: 8 - 136 Jay St. Schenectadv, N_.'Y ;18·346·2~19 . expressed, \I love triangles. I have this thing about the number three. It's everywherel 11 It was a simple and believable theme because \it definitely happens at Union, we all know pe()ple like these characters. They make up the Union Campus.\ The production of \Within Reach\ took six :months to complete while editor Ron Birnbuam was still frantically working to finish up odds and ends just minutes before the movie premiered. Needless to say, it involved countless hours to produce. Did Thor realize this responsibility? \Well rve directed plays, so I had some idea of the commitment/' but he explained movies are different. Directing a play is easier, \you prepare the actors I actresses and then set them free. But in a movie the main characters are always in your control\' which leaves more power, but much more responsibility to the director. However, Benander insists he doesn't make movies just to entertain, but to inform, educate and reawaken, like Spike Lee, a personal favorite director of Benander. Overall., Benander was pleased with his film., especially the Nott scene. \It carne out exactly how I pictured it. Some of the other scenes were only 98% of what I wanted, but the Nott was perfect.\ When asked what kept him going through the time consuming six months, Benander stated \I can't think of any moment more worth while than making movies. Being part of that creative process is the ultimate rush- even better than sex.\ Hmmm ... Benander expressed his concern for the lack of apathy in involvement on the campus. 11 People just don't know what's out there.'' The film dub \Inner View\ desperately needs more help, \but no one wants to do it, you have to twist peoples' arms to get them to do something that doesn't involve a grade.\ Benander believes this could become \the ~iggest . club on campus\ if people JUSt get mvolved. by Ned Walley Senior Editorial Adviser L.A. Style, a Rave music group, has recently produced an explosive new album. As band members call it \t·h • I I · . e ravm -est sounds around!\ Starting off the album is a tune · callEd James Brown is Dead. Quite . ; popular in Japan, this song acts as a very good example of what rave m11sic is (for those unfortunate souls wlto don't already know!). The band uses some of the most hig~-tec.h equipment for producing theu songs, and it really shows in th~ quality of their music. Track number three, Jesus on Chrmnel Four, highlights the bands' ability to use such oddities as ' samples to really make their music stand- out above other struggling rave ·artists'. Twilight Zone ftlll<tions in the same way, but adds anew tinge to the band's music. This album is definitely a must for , any serious rave music fan. Even if ·you aren't a huge fan, you will still enjoy. th~s album for those special che~sy mghts when there is nothing you d rather be doing than dancing your butt off! 1. The Pelican Brief, by JOhn Grisham_ (Dall, $6.99.) Law student finds hersett on 11'1e run fr<lm ~tars of tlllo Supreme Court justices. 2. The Finn, by John Grisham. (Island/Dell, $5_99.) Young lawyer confronts the hidden IV()ridngs of his firm. 3. Jurassic Pa~ by M~ Ctictltoo. (Ballantine, $5.99.) A theme palk s cloned dinosaurs are creating a wortd crisis, 4. Llhl's Uttle.tnstructlon 8ook. by H- Jackson Brown Jr. (Rutledge Hill, $5.95.) M/tee lor attaining a fuU life. S. All Around the T~, by Mary HigginsCtark. (Pocket, $6.50.) A college student IS =sed of killing,ller professor. 8. On the Pulse of Momlng, by Maya mgelou. (Random H<lUSe $5.00:) Poem recited at President Clintr>n's inauguration. • 7. A Tl~ to ~Ill, by John Grisllam. (Island/Dell, $5.99.) RaaaJ tens100 runs high dl!rj.ng a trial. 8. Jan, by Toni M<lnison. (Plums, S10.CO.) Passionate story of obsession and music: set in Hilffem in the 19205. 9. The Au~blography of Mal~m X, .will\ Alex Haley. (Ballantine, $5.99.) The blacl< leader's lite story . 10. B,acklash, by Susan Faludi. (Anctlor,$12.50.) Powertut and frightemng look at the undeclared war against Amencan WQmen. New&, Recommended 3. Dinosaur Jr. Wltere You Been (Sire/WB) 4. Porno .for Pyros Porno for Pyros (WB) ·Thor's Gra,des. A~WIIIiiiiCtQ'IciWaymr~ ~--~.OIIdON ..... VA Waiting to Exhale, by Teny McMillan. (Pocket Star, $5.99.) Story of four a~e. vibrant black women in their tllirties, all holding their breath waiting for the love 1tlat is so hard to find tor today's single women. 5. Lenny Kravitz Are You Gonna Go M Wa (Virgin) 6. Belly Star (4AD(Sire) 7. Ween Pure Gu.a-va (Elektra) 8. Living Color Stain (Epic) 8.97 Velocity Girl Copacetic (Sub op) \Falling Down\ B+ \Point of No Return't B \Fire in the Sky\ B- Shampoo,Pianet, by Douglas Coupland, (Pocket, $10.00.) Funny and sympathenc novel that chromctes ths relationships between tt1e cynrcal, technocuHured MTV generation and their splintered alienated divorced paren1S of 1hs '60s and matenalislrc grandparents of ihe '50s. \I\ !IJ for lnnocant, by Sue Grafton. (Fa\\ICett, $5.99.) Kinsey Mltlhone Is hired to settle a legal wrangle .. , but 1ihds herself tangled up 111 an unsolved murder 1hat won't go away. '~.

April29, 1993, page 12 FEATURES Uncle Edna is a Union mentally undresses himself. A R TJS T OR S' EX LJE N D College studemt who answers 8. Dresses up like a woman / J , l J real questions from real people. and does that little trick like Dysfunctional? Branch Buffalo Bill does in The Davidian? Wacko? Why ask Silence of the Lambs, you Anne or Abbey when you can know. tbe part ·in front of the ask your own Uncle Edna. camera in thebasement. Box 83. 7. Calls his own name out Edna's Mailbo]( Dear Uncle Edna, I'm a good looking guy. Really good looking. The trouble is that I am so good looking that most of the girls at Union are too intimidated by me. How do I get them to realize that there's more to me than crystal blue eyes and a terrific smile? -Paul from Hastings DearPaul, · Maybe girls don't notice you because of the cloud of ego that obviously surrounds your perfection. Tell you what- next time you'r.e in bed 'relieving your own tension' • ask yourself who has the problem- other girls, or you and your Narcissistic beliefs. One Year Ago Dear Uncle Edna, Why do men have nipples? -ER DearER, Good question. My best guess is for titty twisters, purple nurples and the like. It is however one of the truly unanswerable questions of modem philosophy. Edna's Top Ten Top ten things that Paul \the egomaniac\ from Hastings does. 10. Writes 'I love you Paul' all over his desk in class. 9. Whenever he sees his picture or reflection he during sex.. 6. Calls .his own name out when having sex alone. 5. Hits on every girl he .sees and calls them a bitch when he gets rejected~ 4. Fantasizes about an affair with Joey Buttafuoco. 3. Gives his vaseline pet names. 2. Has mirrors installed on the ceiling over his toilet. 1. Sings 'I touch Myself by the Divyitles. Crack Hall of Fame An easy selection this week: Union 'College's own Professor Biek. Apparently, somewhere in tile Union bylaws, it says that professors are allowed to graze their animals on Union's grounds. This Saturday. Prof. Bick exercised that right and grazed a sheep in Nott field. The picture is in the paper, somewhere, look for yourself. Professor Bick, thank you for making my week, and congratulations on your induction into my Hall of Fame. Studemts of the VVeek Aimee Rodewald for her pioneering work in microwave cryogenics (look it up). Joe S u IIi v a n and J u s t i n Carrigan for not being able to get their kite off the ground last week, thereby, proving that there is a little Charlie Brown in all of us. Congratulations to all three of you. Your parents would be proud. Billy West- Voice of '~Stimpy the Cat\ ~ Will Bring His Hillarious Performance to Y Union College on Friday, May 7 8:00PM 'M Me1norial Chapel Free Ad1nission! Alexis Leist Features Writer Madonna has been a cultural icon for more than ten years. She is known world-wide for her music and shocking way of life. Some adults are appalled by her while others embrace her and what she stands for. But what exactly does Madonna standfor1 Well, to tell you the truth I have no idea. We aren't really that close. I can only give you my opinion on this cult \hem\, if I can go so far as to say that. I like Madonna's music, I always have. I admire that her music changes with every album and they still sell by the millions. Although to tell y()u the truth. I like her earlier music better. I also think that she is an amazing dancer. So, chalk one up for Madonna. I'll give her a 9 for talent. But that is where my admiration stops. In the past few years I believe that Madonna has degenerated; she's gone downhill. I guess it all started with that Like A Prayer video, which sparked unbelievable controversy worldwide. Great song, but was tbat video really necessary? I'm not religious at all, but it even shocked me. And everything she has done thereafter continues to shock me. Let's consider her name- Madonna! To some highly religious people that's enough. I don't think she planned her careeF to be the exact opposite of whlat her name stands for, virginity, but it turned out that way. I think we all realize by now that Madonna is the farthest thing from a virgin; but I think it's degrading that she exploits HERSELF! Sure, some people say she has balls and Went, but I dmt't really think portraying oneself as a sex fiend requires balls or talent. Prostitutes do it all the time. Let's take her bool, &., The whole world knows that she's i11to bondage aild having sex with almost anyoit<: or for that matter, anything.. I've heard people say how gr~t it is that she can express berself like tllat. What's so great about it? If I did somethi11g like that I would be thrown out of my house, this school, and I would probably be an outcast of society. So. why c:~nMadonna get away wUil a and be considered a woma.n who is not· afraid to show her se:x:nality (which is a Jl:letty mild description)? MONEY. In the end, it all comes down to just that. She wants money. and. she knows what will sell. I nean think about it, sex -does sell. Madonna is prostituting herself only she mak~s millions more and has a good voice too! Wow, two for .the price of one! She's rich enough :and famous enough that she can get away with anything. 1 think it is pretty sad that Ame:rica falls for it. OK. granted, this country is just a tad a11al about the whole sex thing. b1.1t l don't think Madonna will help us open up. If .anything. she makes us clam up even more. Looking at her book and hearing her talk makes us uncomfortable. Admittedly. the uncomfortable feeling is a reflection of our attitude towards sex. but what would our country be like if we all went around acting liike Madonna. Wllo would be left to shock us? Madonna is so successful because she does sel'l what people want and ·because :she does shock us. I'll give her credit, the woman knows bow to make- money. I just don't think she has the right attitude towards sex. She has made it into a commodity and it shouldn't be. Now I know if Madonna wer.e a sweet girl and J.1Unning through green fields that wouldn't be realistic either. but does she have to go to such extremes? I really don't .care who she has slept with, how, or where. Yes. I do believe that we are still uptight about ~certain sexual situations. but I don't think her approach is the right one. Sbe~s shocking everyone back into silence. It's scary that slle has come to be considered a sex symbol and an independent woman who is not afraid to express herself. It's scary that people look up to her. What does that say about our society? A Rainy Day Erin M. O'Neil Features Editor Drip, drop, plop, slop, Excrement falls from the sky. I look to the heavens for a glimpse of the sun and a piece of it lands in my eye. Blinded, wet, I stumble and fall Land in a mud puddle, face down Pa~sers- by all stop to laugh I lie iliere~ and continue to drown Submerged in a murky liquid, I realize I've reached a new low This rain, what's it all for? Oh, Great! It's turning to snow Gurgle, bubble, cough, gasp I'm choking on Schenectady slime. To get up or down, I must make a choice I'm running out of time. Reasons to die: rain, exams, bounced checks, Homew()rk, morning classes and mold, Runny n<>ses, allergy .shots, dampness Bruise~, asparagus, my tenth cold. Reasons to live? B uttafuoco... spring- oh is it spring? Urn, gee• I don't know, help me out. I've only one breath left- can't think of a thing. So, I lie here, dead, in a mud puddle. An appropriate, pathetic, end. Poor me, oh woe, come to my funeral. Pretend you were my friend. Weep for the girl in the mud puddle. Let me be an example for you kids. When it rains, don't look up. Tale it from one who did. - 'iiiiii p DG .,. bla. shil T~ DeJ '( .. psy T~ 'f the a\Vc DeJ To Let Del He: bei sut An: Vic bat see Ba1 .( We SCI sin we. tha 3110 Cl E { ell ]

Wlr <!tnnrDrb trnsis · CAMPUS NEWS April29, 1993, page 13 P;ER!iDI\IA!Liii!iiii . . r===iil:iiiLAiiiiiii!iiii!iiiiiiliiiF;iiiEiii,Diii!iiiF===;;S:;:T;;:U:==ID>~JE:::NT::=. ~s~ .. U~JR~V~Ir;:V=:=A:;:: .. ~IL~<G::·=,:=U::IC::JD):=;:IB::=_ == OO's- 'Jhe Saturday retreat was a bla.:st! Keep your anchors shilling! T~ the New Sisters of Sigma Delta 'Lau' Congratulations!! We 1 re so P~rched you made it! 1! love and B.TG! The older sisters T~ :the Brothers of Chi Psi, 'fhanJcs for divirig deep with the: Deltas! We had an aV!~Csome time. The Sisters of Delta Delta Delta To rthe Brothers of Sigma Chi, \Jhanks for a great party. Let's d<> it again. The Sisters of Delta Delta Delta \I<Jis Rion\ Thanks for the talk on F:dalayt -Caroline He:y Mr. Wonderful- Did you ever think about being the host of or Sllbmi ~ting your work to Armerica's funniest Home Video's? You've got )>{)tential babe. At least we'd ALL get to see: your work then! A \true\ love Batll Tenn Abroad!! Cheers from the :Beehive! We've had an overabuncbmce of S c•umpy's and Moonshine since you've been gone. The we.ather has been better here thltlll Schenectady's Miss you a11dkheeriol -Rory and Stu CLA!i!iiFIED!i ,_ CRUISE JOBS Students Needed! Earn $2,000+/month working for Cruise Ships and Tour Companies. Holiday, Summer and Full-'I'ime eooployment available. For info. call: Cruise .Employment SertJ!ites (206)634-0468 ext. C51.!18 · Campaign For The Environment Spend the summer with the Environmental Planning Lobby to protect NY's wilderness & wildlife. EPL is looking for motivated students with good communications skills to work hours 2-lOpm. Paid training and advancement potential. can 462-5526. Birthright, Inc. Crisis Counseling. free and confidential pregnancy tests, referrals and a friend. Schenectady 370-1532 Albany 438-2978 BaHston 885-4117 CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT now hiring students. $300/$900 wkly. Summer/Fall Time. Tour Guides, Gift Shop Sales, Deck Hands, Bartenders, Casino Dealers,Etc. World Travel- Caribbean, Alask~ Europe, Hawaii. No experience necessa!y. Calll-800-602-68()- 0323 Ext23. Heading for EUROPE ·this summer? Only j$169!! Jet there anytime for only $169 with AIRHITCH! (Reported in Let's Go! and NY Times) California-$129 each way. AIRHITCH 212-864-2000 · GREE · S &. C.LU BS $1,000 AN HOUR! Each member of your 1rat. sorority. team. club. etc. pitches in just one hour and your group can .raise · $1.000 in just a few days! Plus a c:hance to earn $1,000 for yourself! No rost. No obligaiuln. 1~800-93Z·052B. ext. 65 Earn $500 - $1000 weekly stuffing envelopes. :For details - RUSH $ 1 .00 with SASE to: GROUP FIVE 57 Greentree Drive, Suite 307 Dover, DE 19901 \Okay go to your corners and at the sound of the bell come out acting.\ Apr 29 -Thursday 3 :00 PM Softbal:l vs. Albany 7:00PM CCAUD: Visual Arts -Andres Serrano A.pr 30 - Friday Student Fomm Elections -VOTE!! ~ :00 PM Basebc:~JI vs. Hobart 8;00 PM & 10:00 PM CCAUD:Distinguished Gentleman May 1 - Saturday 8:00 PM & 10:00 PM CCAUD:Distinguished Gentleman May 2- Sunday 1::00 PM Softball vs. Hartwick 8:00PM & 10:00 PM CCAUD:Distinguished Gentleman May 3- Monday 8:00 PM & 1 0:00 PM CCAUD:Distinguished Gentleman May 4 - Tuesday 6:00PM UCDH: Multicultural Culinary Expose' May 5 -Wednesday 8:00 PM & 10:00 SSOJ'6: Europa Europa May 6 - Thursday 4:30 PM CCAUD: Visual Arts -Wayne Trimm May 7 - Friday 4:00PM Chet's: West sponsors Wok the Dog 8:00 PM & 10:00 CCAUD: Film-A Few Good Men May 8- Saturday 10:00 AM 4:00 UC Sch'dy You1h Olvmpics-Foot.Fid 1:00 PM Mem. Chapel: Spring Gospel Extravaganza 8:00 ,PM Chet's: Student Gov. Presidential Debate 9:00 PM Chef's 8:00 PM Perf. Arts Studio: A Night of Sce11es 9:00 PM Chet's 10:00 PM UCDH: Jam Party (Hispanic Heritage Mo.} 8:00 PM Achilles Rir:=k: \Screaming Trees\ Concert 8:00 PM Coffeehouse @ .Fero 8:00PM SSOi6: Spanish Play \EI Delantel Blanco\ 9:00 PM Chett's 7:00PM CCAUD: Visual Aris -Nicholas Nixon 8:00 PM Coffeehouse@ Fero 8:00 PM Mem. Ch: Minerva, Clarence Page 9:30 PM Chet's: Dutch Pipers 9:00 PM Chefs 8:00 PM-Mem. Chapel: Billy West \Ren & Stimpy\ 9:00PM Chet's 3:30 PM -6:30 Chet's: Gospel & Choir Reception 8:00PM & 10:00 CCAUD: Film-A Few Good Men 8:00 PM Coffehouse @ Fero: \Voices\ To include your events, attend Programming meetings Mondays@ 4:30 In CC410. This calender is current as of 4127/93. Become A Mentor Clip this form out a11d set1cl • 1 ~- to Mia Caetano-Box #337 or cal: information. 372-3534 for more Name -~----- ...... ----------------- :Box#- -------------------·------- Tele# ------------------------- Year -------------------------- PUT IN A PERSONAL AT THE INFORMATION BOOTH-$.50!! l!!

April29, 1993, page 14 CAMPUS BULLETIN BOARD 1993-94 FAll TERM PR.FSCHEDUUNG PROCEDURES ?rescheduling mo.tenals will be available at the Registr~'s Office beginning FRIDAY ~lAY 1-Ith. Students should review the course listing,, consult wito their advtser, and. select the courses they wish to take. It is advisable for students to have additional choices In mind in the event one or more of their first three choices is unavallable. TO PRESCHEDULE, EVERY snJDENT IS REQUiRED J.O HAVE THEIR ADVISER SIGN THER PRESCHEDliUNG FORI\ol. IF THE ADVISER IS UNAVAiLABLE, STUDENTS SHOULD CONSULT WllHTHE CHAJRPERSON OF THEIR !Y!AJOR DEPARTMENT. Some courses are available only with the permission of the -department. These are referred to as \list\ courses, and are indicated on the c0urse listing by m asterisk (*). lJsts for the courses will be posted by the depa..I1t:ments on MONDAY MAY 17th. Students should sign these lists to indicate an •interest md then return to the department on FRIDAY Mav 1lst to find CJutwhetheror not they have been admitted to the course. Those admitted to a:. list course must obto.in a reservation card from the department. ln order to· pick. up a card, you MUST have your prescheduling fonn validated by the department. Students are permitted to pick up no more than three (3) cards. PLEASE NOTE: CARDS NOT PICKED UP BY 4:30P.M. ON MONDAY, MAY ?4th W!UBE GIVEN TO THE NfJ(T PERSON ON THE WAIT UST. NO ONE WILL BE ALLOWED TO PRESCHEDULEFORA \UST\ COURSE WITHOUT A CARD. Only these courses requue ·permission cards. Students will be allowed to preschedule courses at the time printed on their prescheduling form. They stwllld verify that the courses thoey have chosen are not closed. If one or more courses are closed, they sh<Ju:!d select new ones and correct their prescheduling form. Students must see a staJf member i11 the Registrar's Office to preschedu!e wurses. The date and time for.each student's appointment is printed <Jn the label of the prescheduling form. Students may NOT preschedule earlier than their assigned time. However, they can come any time AFTER their appoiBtment time. PRESCHEDUl!NG WI! I CONCI UDE ON FRIDAY MAY 28tll. Additional course changes may be made during the \drop/add\ period at Registration in ·September at the FIElDHOUSE Students wb11 do not plan to return to Unjon for the FALl Term except for seniors who are completing their requirements early, should NOTIFY THE DEAN OF STUDENTS OFFICE IMMEDIATELY. Potential Fall 1993 \graduates\ should al~o immediately notify the Registrar's Office of their plans to finish their studies at the end of the Fall Term. Students who will be on a Un jo3J College term abroad for the Fi.l!l term dq not need to prescbedule thejr coutses Fall term course presrheduling \ill take place from MONDAY 1\IAY ? 4(h rhm FRIDAY !>.lAY 0 8th lt the Regtstrar's Office in Whitaker House. Shakti and The Department of Performing Arts present KIRTANA A Concert of South Indian Classical Music featuring the Flute • Veena • Mrudangam Monday, May 10, 1993 8:00PM Old Chapel Free Admission Open to the Public For more mformatton, please contact Rupa Kakarla at 386-4088 For clirectwns, please cull 370-6000 NEED EXTRA CASH??!! In Spirit of Hispanic/Latina Heritage Month The Spanish Club A.L.A.S. and * tr Cl>IA * ;;! iC * tr Present {t -¢( * ... * :s:t * * t. * * * ,. u i( NOCHE LA TINA -~ ffOCHE f\11\\AA ~~ MERE:.'o/GUE and SALSA CONTESTS UNION COLLEGE College Center Second Roor Friday, April 30 Directions to Union : $ 2,00 WI COLLEGE I.D, $ 4. 00 W/0 COLLEGE I.D. ZOO PRODUCTIONS From Albany, take l·9D·t<Hxit 25,.Schenectady. Then, take·J-890 to e>it $,Broadway. At the end ·of the.exlt ramp, make a nght. Make another right at.the first lights, and go straigthl up the hill. all the way to Union St. Make a right. and enter through Payne Gate on Union Street. From Troy, take Route 7 to Schenectady. Exit on Uruon St. and· go straight to the Union College campus. Enter through Poyne Gate on Union Street. WE ARE LOOKING FOR STUDENTS WHO WANT TO EARN SOME FUN, EASY MONEY! STUDENTS WHO WOULD LI.KE TO WORK ON REUNION WEEKEND - MAY 21ST, 22ND, & 23RD. PLEASE STOP BY THE ALUMNI OFFICE O:R CALL ALISON OR PEG AT x6168. At ~:oo ~M, ~huxsca], May 6, the I~ish poet Eamon Grennan will give a :-eac:.::1g .:..n tr:e second-floor H'L!Illanities Lounge at Union College. Grennan, ·..:ho ,....,...,.,...,.:- f .... orr. \ 1 o,..+\'\'r\' I.,...,land ·· ·d n· · ' '-·\\·-\' - · ·~ ~ ...... ~ ·• ... - , now ·Cl'./1 es 1 1s tllr.e oetwee.n I ..... eland a . ..:~ .... -:-.~ rrr\; .... 0. .. c.a. t 'h h . • - n, ... • -·:w . .~ .. ~._~c .... ~..a es., w .. e:-e J.e ::.s a Professo~ of English at Vassar Coll ,. ~·- ~o h b bl' h d ·a e=e. ::::.t' e:ns 3.Ve een PU ::.s e w::. ely ~n both countries; in the last few t·-ors. he has become one of the favorlte poets of the NE\w yootn;'\O o-\ • P~-=- .::~~.,. .... A; · , 1· · •'-l'\.LJ., mac..,.ZJ.ne. ··~\' -~~~._ 11er1..:an p~.o ::.catJ.or. was 'WHA':' 11GHT THERE IS (North Point~ 1989) and h1.s rr.ost recent lS AS IF IT MATTERS ( Gr.~}\Wolf 1992). Some of his poems touch on t~e \T:!:'oubles\ in_Nor~~ern !:-eland; more frequently, hc~Tever, he wr~tes beautiful med1tat::.ons upon nature and the domestic li.:e. In A?:-il, his reading with Seamus Heaney at the YMCA in New York City sold out with an audience of 600; we do not expect so many at Union, but all are welcome and admission is free. All of these people have dedicated a lifetime struggling for human rights: Mother Teresa: slums of India Nelson Mandella: freedom & civil rights in South Africa Elie Wiesel: making sure that the world never forgets the Holocaust Rigoberta Menchu: struggling for the rights of indigenous people in Guatemala How would you like to work in Human Rights? To learn more about human rights problems, jobs, internships and fellowships, come to the Career Development Center on May 6th at 7:00 pm. For more informatioll see article by Alex Kreisler. \A LANDSLIDE OF IAUGBSr -Joel Siegel GOOD MORNING AMERICA EDDtE MURPHY ____ The ___ _ Distinguished Gentleman ATTENTION ALL CLUBS: BUDGETREQUESTPACKETSAREDUE IN THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE BY 4PM ON FRIDAY, MAY 7TH. Spring Actions of Hope BREAKING FREE FROM RACISM The Capital District joins with communities around the nation as we mark one rear since the Rodney King verdict and the L.A. rebellion. We will gath~r in support of the National Summit of Gang Leaders occurring April 29- May 2 as they seek ways of becoming a positive force in their cities. Together we will Reflect, Respond, and Recommit ourselves to building ·a society free from racism. COMMUNITY WORSHIP SERVICE Thursday, April 29 7:30pm Memorial Chapel Union College Campus Keynote Address: Dr. James H. Evans, Jr., Ph.D. Pres. of Colgate Rochester Divinity School Chairperson of the Martin Luther King, Jr. Commission of Greater Rochester Author of several bo.oks on A fricmn American spirituality, theology, and literature. Response: Joseph Allen President of Schenectady NAACP Natio11al Sponsors: Sojourners, Kairos USA. Pax Christi USA, Bread f(Jr the World, The !National Council of Churches, Clergy and Laity Concerned, Fellowship of Rec:onciliiltion 1 Evangelicals for Social Action, Baptist Peace .Fellowship of North America, and Church Women United Local Sponsors: Committee to Improve Race Relations, NAACP, Schenectady Inner City Ministry, Union CollegeCanif)US Protestant Ministry, Fellowship of Recor~ciliatian

Uthr Olonrvr.b irttsis SPORTS April29r 1993, page 15 Union Crew Competes Invitational Women's Rugby Impressive In Lowell by Steve Mooar ConctJrdiensis .Staff The U nio11 College Crew Team ven ttJred to Lowell. Mas.sachusetts this past weekend f<lr the Lowell Invitational Regatta. The Regatta bas always been considered a tune-up for the New England Championships. However, this year Union decided to j()in The University of Rhode 'Island, B'oston College, Lowell. Amherst, and University ofV:ermont in order to prepare f<Jr 11he Empire State Regatta. States will be held this year <>n Cazenovia Lake, (outside of Syracuse) Satur<l;ay May 1st, and Sunday May 2nd. Union's fust novice women~s eight tested :the competition for the women's crew team. They found the 'CQmpetition to be fast and en<led: up finishing fourth. The varsity women's eight did not find the ition any easier. UVM, who is defending Dad Vail Champion, moved past the rest of the field for a first place finish. Union could not do better than fifth. The final women's race of the day was the second novice women's eight raee. Union duplicated its fourth place finish from the earlier novice race. The novice men's boat . coming off a lose to Hobart the pervious week rowed a gutsy race. Finding themselves in last ,place at the half way mark, they were able to row by three crews to take third place. This puts the men's novices on the right track heading into States. The men's varsity four was unable to duplicate the novice men's second half and ended up finishing fourth out of six boats. The best races of the day for Union came in the men's varsity eights races. First, the lightweight eight anchored by a bew four including Mike Brown, Rob Haslinger, Josh Kaplan, and Mike Klugger, stunned URI and BC as they pulled away for an eight second victory. This leaves the varsity lightweight men undefeated in .regular season competition in both fours and eights for the second year in a row. Second, was the undersized heavyweight eight that includes six lightweights. They put in another great perfermance as they sprinted by URI in the last twenty strokes for a come from behind victory. This was the last race for Union's open eight so the men can concentrate on the varsity fours and the lightweight eight. This gives the open eight a final record of 10-1 with the only loss to Hobart by three feet. In Home Win by Sue-lyn. B. Contributing Writer On Saturday, the Union Women's Rugby ream defeated Potsdam 18-0 before a fired-up home crowd at Nott Field. Many players returned to action this week and the team was hungry for victory from the beginning. Within minutes of the opening gun, Mary Beth Crowes, a freshman, dashed in for the try off a brilliant band off from Flurb. Eager to get . tb~ir piece of the action, the speedy precisio11 of the line sent Gaela from \Galway\ zipping into the try zone for her first score of the day. Regaining possession of the ball, Chris Johnston masterfully ha:messed the strength of serum powerhouses Zirinsky-, Angela, Chester, Mary B~th, Kate, and Decker giving V olz the opportunity to shoot d~wn the field for the try. In the second half, Union continued to dominate Potsdam and exploited their weaknesses twice more with trys from Starshi:P' Gaela and Fullback Jenn. 1'o top off Union's superb <lay at running the ball, supersta.r freshman kicker Wendy Sllccessfully executed the two point conversion sending her teammates, and the fans, into a tizzy. The team is very proud of the prolJCess they have made so far this season, and looks to improve' on their winning ways against Albany this weekend. The teaoo is hoping for speedy recoveries for Zollo and Jill. Kids' Olympics Preview Play Better Golf with JACK NICKLAUS by Lee Schacter Associate Sports Editor May &th is approaching. Details for:tlle Kids' Olympics. run by tlte Interfraternity Council and Panhellenic System at Union College with support f10m Schenectady's Boys' Club, Girls' Club, Reach Out CeiL ter, and Big Brothers/:Big Sisters, have fallen intn place. It will be held from I lam to 4pm on the gth. There will be a big barbecue for which the fraternitiesand sororities have donated cooks and food. There will be an iiLformation table for all of the organizations involved. In preparation, there 'will also be a carwash held as a fundraiser on :May 2nd. Sp()rts Quiz by Larry Duncan ST. LOlJIS CARDINALS 1. Name the last Card to hit 20 or more triples ill. a single season. 2. Name the last Card to hit 30 or more home rtiJlS in a single season. 3. Name tli~ last Card to drive in 100 or more ~runs in a single season. 4. Name the last Card pitcher to win 20 or more games in a single season. 5. Name the last Card to have 200 or more hits in a single season. 6. Name the last Card to win Rookie of the Year honors. 7. Name tile only Cardinal pitcher to throw a sltt1tout in 1992. 8. Name til~ only Cardinal pitcher ever to throw two no-hitters in his career. Sports Quiz Answers 1. Stan Musial had 20 in 1946; 2. Jack Clark llad 3S ial987; 3. Pedro Guerrero lud 117 in 1989; 4. John Tudor and Joaquin Andujar each won 21 in 1'985; .5. Willie McGee had216in 19SS; 6. Todd Worrell in 1986; 7. Mark Clark; 8. Bob Forsch 0 199~ by King Features Syntt The event itself consists of six different events, such as an obstacle course, a water balloon toss, a potato sack race, a three-legged race, and more. Each of the fraternities and sororities has a group of kids to represent. The kids will receive prizes and T -shirts. Attending the event will be the mayor and deputy mayor of Schenectady, and some of the top administration at Union College, including President Hull and Dean Mammola. All of Union College's students, faculty, and administration are welcome, so come join in for a great time and a lot of fun. This is a great opportunity for Union College to show its support for the Schenectady community. If you would like to help in this effort or you have any questions, contact Lee Popper at x4099. \J£ USEO THE INTER- LOCKING G~IP SHOWN H THR.OUG MY CAR I e,!:LIEV~ IT OFFERS TWO IMPOR.TRNT e>ENEFIIS PR0'\.1.1 DED E':>Y 1\JO 01 HER &R..IP. . GRADUATION SALE! . Friday, May 7, 1 Oam to 9pm. Saturday, May 8, lOam to 5pm. You must register in advance to attend. Call: 518-356-9740 BitWise 386 sx Complete System with Printer! • Fast 386 sx • 3-1/2\ High-Density Floppy Drive • 2 MB RAM • MS DOS 6.0, Mouse, Windows 3.1 • Mono VGA Monitor • 1 OOo/o IBM Compatable $ • 40 MB Hard Disk • PFS Works Software (80 with DOS 6.0). • Dot Matrix Printer Sale price for payments by cash or check. Big Savings On AU Other Models, Tool Ot E s 1 G N s I 8 N c. ~fechnology Center, Rotterdan1 ~ndustrial Park, Schenectady~ NV 12306 . . . - . ' . TAKE NO PRISONERS!!

Wtr <lLllnrvrb irnsis photo by David Levine Men's Rugby Crushes by C.J Urban Contributing Writer The Men's rugby team went into Saturday's match against Potsdam State- College with high expectations. They w~re coming off two strong back-to- back performances. Two weeks ago they delivered local and long time foe, RPI, a foot- stomping defeat on the home pitch. While last week, the Union Men traveled to nearby Central Park to scrimmage the Schenectady Red's Rugby -Football Club, who recently moved their affiliation to the more competitive New England Rugby Union. In last weeks game the Gamet Rugby Cocks of Union held the more experienced local men's club scoreless in the first half. Union put their \B\ backfield in the second half in order for them to gain some valuable experience for the Upstate Tournament. Flanker, Keith \Travolta\ Correia, scored the first points of the game on an amazing \Statue of Liberty\ solo run, which put the Union Rugby Cocks up 4-0. The Reds immorally substituted members of their elite side against the \B\ line of Union where they late in the Game some how came up with two quick tries late in the second forty minutes. A tough defeat, but an educational scrimmage for the young players. This past week was one of turmoil for the Union \A\ side and the senior veterans. The team was preparing vigorously all week for the infamous New York Upstate Rugby Union Tournament which determines the best rugby teams in the state above NYC. On Wednesday the team heard the otlicial announcement that the Tourney was cancelled. The dexterous and mobile match secretary P. Morebeers. A.K.A. 1Pedar. announced that an unexpected home game against the ruthless Polecats from Potsdam State would replace the Upstates. The Union Rugby Cocks stormed the field Saturday following the Women Rugger's win with intensity. The Forwards dominated the scrumdowns and set play with considerable push and pursuit from Boo-Boo Sears in his last home game as a senior. As well there was a strong contribution from the over-all experience of prop, Pedar Morebeers, in the front row and lineouts. The Backs, led by Peter \deBuvwioa\ deBoer at Fly Half, held the fast running of Potsdam in the early play. With strong encouragement and a religious presence coach and spiritual advisor Skip and Budda Aycox, the serum capitalized on the mistakes of Potsdam. Rookie hooker Mike Vulva won the put in from serum half Andrew Frisbee on a mark well inside the oppositions own 22 meter line. Chester \Cheetah\ picked up the ball from the number 8 spot and ran toward the try zone taking on two Polecat mggers slipping the ball to Rob \Puppy\ Dupuy for the easy try. Followed was a valiant but unsuccessful attempt by the Handsome Lee Popper for the two point kick. Later in the half, Handsome Lee had another shot at three points from a penalty kick from 40 meters out and dlis time it was good. At the half, Union led 8 to nil. During the half-time break Coach/Budda Aycox lifted the team with his intellectual and platonic speech. The words were evidently taken to heart by the Union Cocks as Chester Cheetah covered the opening half kick from his fellow Co- captain, deBuvwioa. This was typical of the early second half play from Union. B.J. Potsdain \Thumbs\ Marcoullier scored a try of a quick ruck established by the forwards Puppy and Boo-Boo from a well placed grubby kick from the old school Dutchman himself, Peter \deBuvwioa\ deBoer. A solid display of second-faze and classic \fifteenman Rugby.\ Again though Handsome Lee's foot fell narrow. After ten scoreless minutes of play and quality defense from both sides Union was knocking once again. Rookie Mike V. stole a hook from Potsdam well inside the 22 meter line. Here,_ Chester Cheetah in his experienced wisdom picked up the. ball and ran ten meters unescorted and taking two Polecat ruggers into the tryzone for the score. This time Handsome Lee Popper kicked an easy two point conversion that sealed the game. But with time dwindling, Potsdam put in a try on the far wing without gaining the conversion. Again Potsdam was able to gain a try off a penalty run by their future American Eagle #8, and made the kick as well as a penalty kick shortly after. But it was all for naught as the Union defense turned offense and held Potsdam defeating them 20-12. In the \B\ game, the Killer B's played a fast paced sevens game versus a more mature Potsdam side. Speedy Rob on the line and Doid hooker Jason Katz stood out but unfortunately the side could not come up ·with the points they needed. This Saturday Union travels to the Hamilton College Tourname11t where they expect to see the return of their veteran hooker Mike '\Gladiator\ Alter. Best ofluck to the senior ruggers in their last game of the season at Hamiltoll md to the future of the Union Rugby tradition. Water Polo Sinks Syracuse by ·Lee .Schachter Associate Sports Editor This past weekend tlle Union College water polo team traveled to RPI for a four game toamament involving RPI, RPI Alumni, the Adirondack water polo dub, and the Syracuse water polo club. Union came out on top, winning all four games and staying undefeated for this spring season. It was an impressive showing for the team, and the weekend had many highlights. . The first game was against the Adirondack water polo club, and the squad had no problem thrashing Adirondack by a score of 14-8. Scott Bowden, Geoff Wolfe, S ven Zabka, ,Chris Y ousey, Cliff Shaw, and Dave Lunianski led the way as Union again showed that they were a force to be reckoned with. The second game was a credit to Union's goalie, Dmitri Konan, as Union pummeled the Syracuse team 12-2. There was great help added from .the bench by players like Tsuyoshi \Kobi\ Kobayashi, Chris Riley, Adam Horst, Erica Saltz, Anne Rozwadowski, Kdsty Holbrook, Jonatha Meade, Julie Ivanyi, and Lee Schachter. The third game was a close one against RP[, but again Union prevailed as they took it 6-4. Dave Robison was one of the leading role players in this game. Union again showed its dominance in the final game of the weekend against RPI alumni, showing poise and determination. Rozwadowski led the way with a ·kickout, and the team never looked back, winning it by a final .score of 13-6. The leading scorers of the tournament were Bowden, Zabka, Lunianski, Wolfe, and Yousey. It· was a great tournament, and a lot of fun too. So if you see a water polo player walking around campus, congratulate him or her on a job weUdone! Union Tennis Team practicing after losing twice last week. The Dutchmen lost to Oneanta, 7-2, and Albany, 7-2. Today, the team will host Hartwick at 3 p.m., and they will conclude their season on May 4 with a difficult match . at Williams. ~. ,\;.{•. ·\:: ::· )/;,.:..:'·i::{--···· .. )'-:·:_.::~.;-·:-: ~-.; . ;- i':···· :':'-: . '' ~- .--. ----· ~.- ·' . ,,.: :c··t.!!:S;:if·~:r:t·!'fl'·.:·'~;:e:t.;~;siitt~ii,:······ ,..,·>···~····A .•. :,;&;;,.,;:.,;R;.g~·., ,:_ t:.:D.DJ4:Y:· ·· :·~·:,:·. '::3!-~'~:!~2):, 1'' I ' . '

