i ; . ~ \· \ '. ! J I : I ; I .: ' . ~ i' ~' i I i 't i l t ~ '. i; i .! I• i i: I ! I ! ' ' ' ! : t Fo11nded at Union College 1877 Volume 122, Number 16 Schenectady, NY March 4J 1993, Section A Honor Code Discussed by David Levine Editor-in-chief The :Student Forum held a Town Meeting on Wednesday, February 24, to gauge student reactiorr to the possibility of implementing an honor code. The students who led the meeting were Karen Hurwitz, Julie Jamieson, Ned Walley. Roxanme Schneider, and JenniferrUnterberg. Jamieson began the meeting by posing the question, \Do we need an honor code?\. Althougll students and faculty have considered the prospects because students are assumed to be d()ing their own work\ Sch11eider explained. As a result of the assumption that students will not participate in academic dishonesty, students have more responsibilities and more freedom. Students do not have to worry about a faculty meiTll>er watching over them during an -exam, but they also have the responsibility to report any student engaging in academic dishonesty Mandelbrot Addresses College , of havi11g an honor code in the past, recent events have brougllt the topic to the forefrornt. In order for the students to underst:md how the honor code would be used. Jamieson described how the system works at William and Mary College. The purpose of the honor ood.e at the College of WilliaiJI and Mary is so that \stude11ts could be judged for their (academic) infractions\. At William and Mary there is an honor panel which hears the cases and makes the rulings. Jamieson ascertained that \It is an hon<>r to be on the honor pane.\ At Bryn Mawr College. a stud-ent who becomes aware that a classmate has cheated is supposed to ask that individual to turn llimself in. If that pers<Jn does not report himself, then it is the responsibility of the student to notify someone on the honesty committee. Ma11y schools that have hon()r codes stress the importance of abiding by the reg11lations of the honor code during freshman orientation. Some schools require a student to sign a pledge not to cheat, and to report any student who doe!;, before they are allowed to tak~ classes. Duke University req11ires that its students sign the Duke Student Honor Commitment. American University has its student's sign the Academic Integrity Code. Caroline Paine Associate News Editor Many people look at the world around them but do not see. This u11fortunate reality was the theme for Benoit Mandelbrot's address to Union College's Founder~ s Day attendants., on February 25. Mandelbrot is presently a physicist at the T.J. Watson Research Center of IBM, where he is. an IBM Fellow. He is also ·a professor of Mathematics at Yale Vniversity. For the Past forty years Mandelbrot has bee11 searching· for a measured order in physical, mathematical and social phenomena, that we define as •chaos'. In 1975 he termed \'Fractal Geometry\ which is tile discovery of shapes created by mathematical fonnlllas that are the same on every level of magnification. During his speech, \Fractals and the Return of the Eye i11 Science,\ Mandelbrot pointe<! out that in the early days ()( math and science, \Science used to use tbe eye to count pictures and analyze them. As time progressed science: separated tbougbt and visuals.'\ This fact disturbs Mandelbrot., who believes that visuals are an essential part ef both matll and science. He demonstratetl this importance through ·a parable he recalled from Plato. Plato tried to teach a mathematical formula to am 'intelligent' .person of tile upper class ami to an ordinar:;r slave boy. He used on!~ numbers and P'ure though 1 when teaching the aristocr~t but introduced pictures whe11 teaching the slave boy. He was amazed to discover that the slave boy :Picked up t:he mathematical comcept quickel' than the educated upper class man. Mandelbrot concluded .· ·-·~ ·.JN~~r-·s···.···_.I:·.·s····•··•.s·-r:fl:?; ., .• ~ 1 .··.· ' ; ·. ·.·, ·.··. ~-;:£;1 ·. : ..... ·. ' ':1(~. . 'l . NEWS ; 'Iihe Blackout on :Sunday put a cnmp .tn students : · ·· studyirig plans, and caused. havoc on computers. ·Nonetheless .. : · schooh~ontinued· 1IS ·qsu!ll .. although regiStration was-postpOned .. -by a week. (SeePage A2) . . . NEWS.~ There h~slieea a controver.:sy on Can1P,us: concerning . t11e selection ptO<less being u~d t<> select.a ne.w dean of arts and sciences. Most professors believe that th~e. .js; .n.ot (fnougb diversity.in- the applican.ts (or thejob, and SUJlP!)rt the use of a .. ·. national search·.~· find· .more qualified applic~t$1. (See Pa.ge . AZ)' .... · , .. .·. ·.·· ._.. . . ... .. . . .. .. ~NALYSIS ;. Adesgription of how Uttiou :s.tudents ~e. .. lero:Dillg: aboJ]t AIDS:.-: I One dormitory floor:..., as a g~oup., .. · watcheS a teleJ,~i$ion; .. $bow that del;lls .with. AWS sufferer~ .. , This ·fit()or ,fia$ tl~o ;b¢ell ab)e. to have ·Jl di~cus$1Qn: with :an . .. · AJDS ,pati~ll*~.. ~tiJdeJ_lts ·have been giVeir.i:llsigbt into the, . :di(ficulti~·of~~~-g w~th AlDS •. ($(?irPag~A9) ' . . .•......• • . . · ARTS ·& ENT~kf.lNMENT : This. seoti«)n feature~.· · J:e.ylew.s .:Qf ~e. Tem}>est~ ~eing .penorm~d on tal!lpiist and o1 , · · : Som,ner$'fly, a;._m()\li~ $tartjng Ric~m;d: <Jere. ·•fl\il~ditim•~ tlle~.i · )s-~ .. de$rl,ption:Q(tb~ M~nbf;otLcwet{!oocettth~t t{)()kplm;ie: .. Jhi$W~~ €$1!e fll:telll) · . · .. •· .·.· · .· > ·.··. · · ..• ; ' :. .·. . ·. · · · ... · FE~TJJttFJS :· .Uncle. $dtia, will U() longerb<l· .an~wering th~ ;>que.~tiOJ1S()f:Oni()n(:ollege s~u(J~rtts~· i\e $ute tor~ his.fmll1> :pi~t.aJ>pearu,.~f~xcl\J$lv~l~qn Ca,*otdisn$is. :r,Seepage:lJ3) .·; · :; ·$r()RTS : ·Tbe ~tating: Qutcbm~n eride~ an -.aby$mate1evel1 : · · g~e l()Sing· ·stteak ~hi!l wee.ten(l with: a $--~ -vi(!~ry over • (;()m~lli . ·The wiii·stve~ Union six po~nts jnJ1t«: ~CAC ttli$ • . .. year, '{)e$tl4gtast¥~. total. of five. CSe<O'\geiJ(j) ·. · · ·.· . ' ,.., - . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . .. ·. . ·. . . .,. . ; .. ' . . , ... that the slave boy was able to learn faster because he used his eyes as well as his intellect The scientist then complemented the college on its name saying. \The name of the college is very moving. The people who named it wanted it to be a 'union' of religion. . Mathematics and physics went on their own paths, but should have formed a 'union'. Mathematical shapes should be enjoyed for their own beauty and erase the bo,lindary between mathematics and science.\ then proceeded to show slides of the 'beautiful• mathematical shapes he had refereed to, including a shape he discovered, \The Mandelbrot Set.\ As Mandelbrot showed the slides he assured his audience, \If one treats mathematics shapes with enjoyment and pleasure the Cont. on page AS Mammola by Veronica Rogers Associate News Editor The position that was held by former Vice President of Union College, Jack Maranville, will be split into two divisions. This will accomodate the promotions of Joseph Mammola, Dean of Students to Vice President of Campus Life, and Diane Blake, Chief Financial Officer, to Vice President of Finance. The announcement came on Tuesday the 23rd of February, at the faculty· meeting. President Hull stated that it is i in the best interest of the prosperity of Union for two people to be recognized for their good work, rather than to hire an outside perS<>n as a new vice president. J)iane Blake and Dean Mammola have been showing excellent capabilities and have proven their abilities to handle their next positions, and new responsibilities. One of the more controversial parts of the code, according to Jamieson. is the · responsibility that students have t() report a classmate whom they believe is cheatin:g. A student who does not rep;ort the student who is allegedlly cheating is violating the hon()r code. Roxallne Schneider discussed how students responsibilities would be altered by the implementation of an honor code. \Exams are not proctored and Blake President Hull noted that although the search for a new Dean of Students is being conducted, there are no definite possibilities. Both Dean Alford and Dean Williams were two of A typical honor code, such as tile one employed by Hobart College, requires the student to ackf1(:)Wledge that they face suspension or expulsion for receiving any assistance on an exam, define the penalties for violating an agreement not to plag ·arize, and explains the reper~ussions of illegally acce:ssing a <:omputer. Ned Walley explained how the bonor <:ode worked at his Cont. on page A5 Promoted Pboto By Scott Steele the 11ames mentioned for the job ope11ing. President Hull's main interests are in rewarding the go<HI work done, and seeing community remain part of our school.

Founded at Union College 1877 Volume 122, Number 16 Schenectady, NY March 4, 1993, Section A Honor Code Discussed by David Levine Editor-in-chief The Student Forum held a Town Meeting on Wednesday, February 24, to gauge student reaction to the possibility of implementing an honor code. The students wh(} led the meeting were Karen Hurwitz, Julie Jamieson. Ned Walley. Roxanne Schneider. and Jennifer Unterberg. because students are assumed to be doing their own work\. Schneider explained. As a result of the assumption that students will not participate in academic dishonesty. studenls have more responsibilities and more freedom. Students dn not have to worry ahout a faculty member watching over thl'm during an exam. but they alsP have the responsibility to report any student engaging in academic dishonesty Mandelbrot Addresses College Jamieson began tb.e meeting by posing the question, \Do we need an honor code?\. Although students a11d faculty have considered tile prospects of having an honor code in the past. recent events have brought the topic to the forefront. In order for the stlldents to understand how the honor code would be used. Jamieson described how the system works at William and Mary College. The purpose of the honor code at the College of William and Mary is so that \students could be judged for their (academic) infractions\. At William and Mary there is an honor panel which hears the cases and makes tile rulings. Jamieson ascertained that \It is an honor to be on tile honor pane.\ At Bryn Mawr College. a student who becomes awarl' that a classmate has cheated is supposed to ask thai individual to turn himse If in. If that person does not report himself. then it is the responsibility of the student to notify someone on the honesty committee. Many schools that have honor codes stress the importance of abiding by the regulations of the honor code during freshman orientation. Some schools require a student to sign a pledge not to cheat. and to report any student who does, before they are allowed to take classes. Duke University requires that its students sign the Duke Student Honor Commitment. American University has its student's sign the Academic Integrity Code. Caroline Paine Associate News Editor Many people look at the world around them but do not see. This unfortunate reality was the theme for Benoit Mandelbrot's address to Union College's Founder's Day attendants. on February 25. Mandelbrot is presently a physicist at the T.J. Watson Research Center of IBM, wllere he is an IBM Fellow. He is also a professor of Mathematics at Yale U11iversity. For the Past forty years Mandelbrot has been searching f(}.r a measured order in p!Jysical. mathematical and social phenomena, that we define as ·chaos'. In 1975 he termed ••Fractal Geometry\ wllich is the discovery of sl1apes created by mathematical fonnulas that are the same on every level of magnification. During his speech, .. Fractals and the Return of the Eye in Scie-nce,\ Mandelbrot pointed out that in the early days of math and science, ··science use<l to use the eye to count pictures and analyze them. As time progressed science separated thought and visuals.\ This fact disturbs Mandelbrot, who believes that visuals are an essential part of both math and science. He demonstrated this importance through a parable he recalled from Plato. Plato tried to teach a rnatbematical formula to an ' intelligent' person of the upper class and to an ordinary slave boy. He used only numbers and pure thought when teaching the aristocrat but int!oduced pictures when teac:hing the slave boy. He was amazed to discover that the slave boy picked up the rnalhematical concept quicker than the educated upper class man. Mandelbrot concluded IN THIS ISSUE NEWS : The Blackout on Sunday put a crimp in students studying plans, and caused havoc on computers. Nonetheless. school continued as usual, although rcegistration was postponed by a week. (See Page A2) NEWS : There has been a controversy on campus concerning the selection process being used to select a new dean of arts and sciences. Most professors believe that there is not enough diversity in the applicants for the job, and support the use of a national search to find more qualified applicants. (See Page A2) . ANALYSIS : A description of l!.ow Union students are learning about AIDS. One dortllitory floor, as a group, watches a television show that d~s with AIDS sufferers. This floor has also been able to have a discussion with an AIDS patient. Students have been given insight into the · difficulties of living with AIDS. (See Page A9) ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT : This section features reviews of the Tempest, being perf10rmed on campus, and of ' Sommersby, a movie starring Richard Gere. In addition, there . . , is a description of the Moon boot Lo'Ver concert that took place · tbis week. (See Page BJ) . · FEATURES : Uncle Edna wm Do longer be answering the questions of Union College students. Be sure to read his final : piece, appearing exclusively in Concordiensis. (Seepage1J3) SPORTS : The Skating Dutchmen ended an abysmal eleven game losing streak this weekend with a 5-3 victory over Cornell. The win gives Union six: points in the ECAC this year, besting last years total of fi\ve. (See Page 88) that the slave boy was able to learn faster because lle used his eyes as well as his intellect. The scientist then complemented the college on its name saying, \The name of the college is very moving. The people who named it wanted it to be a 'union' of religion. Mathematics and physics went on their own paths, but should have fonned a 'union'. Mathematical shapes should be enjoyed for their own beauty and erase the boundary between mathematics and science.\ then proceeded to show slides of the ·beautiful' mathematical shapes he had refereed to, including a shape he discovered, \The Mandelbrot Set.\ As Mandelbrot showed the slides he assured his audience, \If one treats mathematics shapes with enjoyment and pleasure the Cont. on page A5 Mammola by Veronica Rogers Associate News Editor The position that was held by fonner Vice President of Union College. Jack Maranville, will be split into two divisions. This will accomodate the promotions of J osc ph Mammola, Dean of Students to Vice President of Campus Life, and Diane Blake, Chief Financial Officer, to Vice President of Finance. The announcement came on Tuesday the 23rd of February, at the faculty meeting. President Hull stated that it is One of tile more controversial parts of the code. according to Jamies<Jn. is the responsibility that students have to report a classmate whom they believe is cheating. A student who does not report the stude11t who is allegedly cheating is violating the honor code. Roxanne Schneider discussed how students responsibilities would be altered by the implementation of an honor code. \Exams are not proctored and Blake : in the best interest of the prosperity of Union for two ..• , people to be recognized for their good work. rather than to hire an outside person as a new vice president. Diane Blake and Dean Mammola have been showing excellent capabilities and have proven their abilities to handle their next positions. and new responsibilities. President Hull 11oted that although the search for a new Dean of Students is being conducted. there are 110 definite possibilities. Both Dean Alford and Dean Williams were two of A typical honor code. such as the one employed by Hobart College, requires the student to acknowledge that they face suspension or expulsion for receiving any assistance on an exam. define the penalties for violating an agreement not to plag·arize, and explains the reper~ussions of illegally accessing a computer. Ned Walley explained how the honor code worked at his Cont. on page A5 Promoted ,,;; # . il!ti Photo By Scott S tccle the names mentioned for the joh opening. President Hull's m;un interests arc in rewarding the good work done. and seeing community remain part uf our school.

March 4, 1993, page A2 NEWS Ol11ucorhfeusiz Blackout Cripples Fate of Fero Up to by David Levine Editor-in-chief Where were you dur,ing the great power outage of 1993 at Union College? Studenls who were using their computers, and didn't save what they were working on, will never forget. On Sunday, at approximately 10 p.m., Union lost its electricity. Power was not fully restored until after l a.m. The only lights in the C{)llege center and the d01mitories were provided by electric generaoors. Students who had exams the next day frantically seaoched for places where there was emough light to study, and people whose computers went down, were searching for the nearest copy of Norton Backup. Registration was postponed for one week as a result of the · power failure. The schBol's computers went down, .and VAX has not been restored to date. lly C'raig Greenberg A:s.s{)lciate News Editor Now tllat Fero House is operu, w:hat is it going to be used for? ~his is the question man11 students are asking on carnpms. According to Lee B lommrosen, Di,rector of St11deem't Activities, students have ,complete control over m~l<ling Fero House into whatever :they want it to be. It is .a newly created social establii·slunent which could deven~p into a central social altermative. Pia,Jis currently call for Fen> 1 :s ifil'st floor to be a social establisllment for students. The se:.cond floor will be used fm: tlhe Office of Residence Life, and the third floor wili provide space for various clubs to ltlle.et. • As soon as the Residlen~e Life Office moves in over :sp1ing break, Fero House will be open for student use dwin~ Vtorking hours. platform for students to choose what they want for themselves ... It's not the Administration's place to provide social alternatives for students ... students don't want to be told what they want as social alternatives.\ The future of Fero House depends entirely on student participation and interest. There is currently a Coffeehouse Committee which meets every Thursday at 3:30 in CC 41:0 to discuss future events and operation details of Coffeehouse. All students are welcome to attend and add their suggestions. The committee is lookin~ for students to define what Coffeehouse will be. If several students .are interested, Coffeehouse could eventually be open every night of the week. If interested, contact Julie Shanebrook at 372-4391, Karina Hojraj at 372-4375, Dennis Hirsch, Seth Friedman, or Brooks Glahn at extension 6995. Students entertainment for fellow students while enjoying themselves.\ A budget has been submitted to the Student Forum. Hopefully, this wiU help to make Coffeehouse a viable social alternative. Coffeehouse is currently open every Tuesday and Saturday night from 8-12pm. This past Tuesday night it hosted singers Sealfon and Ashdown. Every Saturday night will he game night, which will include all the board games we remember from childhood and gounnet coffees. Next Tuesday night, March 9th, Coffeehouse will host an open cabaret including music from various campus. bands and a variety of entertainment. . In addition, Coffeehouse w1ll be open every day of lOth week through finals (March 8-19); from llam until 4pm. Free coffee, tea, and hot chocolate will be av.ailable during this period. If interested in arranging the use of Fero House for your club or student groups, call Student Activities at extension 6118. B Im01mrosen would like to see students step forward with ideas,. as well as volunteer their time to tile running of the Coffee:IJ()use. He stated, \Stud~Cmt Activities provides a DEAN SELECTION PROCEDURE QUESTIONED According to Bloomrosen, \Students should want to volunteer to help with Coffeehouse ~ause they want to learn something, and 'Jeeause they want to provide Recycling is Strong at Union by Heather Reynollis Staff Writer On January 18th, the faculty received a· memt> informing them that reorganizations were occurring, and a new pGJsition of Dean of Arts and Sciences was being created. According to the memo from Dean of Faculty, James Underwood, this position is •· .. to put into ~ffect reorganization in Academic Affairs.\ The memo stated that applications for this p<>:sition were to be received by J<1!11uary 27th. The deadline was eventually extende<i to February 3rd, giving people two weeks to apply, due to concerns expressed by the faculty about the short time period. The Dean will have \ .. operational responsibility for all academic programs in the divisions of Humanities, Social Sciences and Natural Sciences, including undergraduate and graduate programs. A Ph.D and substantial experience as a faculty member are required.\ A meeting of female faculty members was organized when people became conce:rned about the constraints an internal search would p11t on the type of applicant who would be qualified to apply. They were concerned that equal opportunity guidelines should be followed with administrative positions just as they are for all faculty positions. There are currently 8 female professors who could qualify for the IJOsition based on experience. According to Hillary Tann, Professor of Preforming Arts, just becltuse none of these women were interested does not mean that women and minorities should . not be considered in the search. The female faculty members met several times and eventually produced a petitron, which was circulated to as many faculty member:s as possible in the short amount of time. The motion reads as follows: \We move that the search for ·· the position of Dean of Arts and Sciences be delayed 11ntil Fall, 1993. We request that, as elected representatives of the faculty, the Faculty Executive Committee be consulted a:s to procedures to be followed in the resumption of .tfue search. Further, we recommend that affirmati'le action guidelines for administrative appointments be &trengthened to parity with ·the f:aculty hiring guidelines and tl!at the Dean of Arts and Sciences search be con due ted a..ccording to these guidelines.~· The faculty repietidly stated that as this excerpt from the statement to the faculty reads, \This motion is in no way intended to reflect negatively om the quality of the current candidates for the major administrative appointment. But many of us feel strongzy tilat the process is flawed.\ Tile flaws of the process. were emphasized many times in memos and in interviews. No one was claiming that the applicants currently beif!g considered were unqualified or :people that the faculty did not want to work with. Some of the flaws cited were the rush of the hiring process, the lack of input from the factdty, the lack of a national search, and the fact that administrative wsitions were •• .• effectively exempt from the affirmative action g11idelines .•. \ Dea11 Underwood answered the fac:tllty' s concerns of the ru5b a11d stated that, \An inter11al search usually lasts three oif foiUf days, and it was extended as soon as concern was e:;cp.ressed by the faculty.\ Io regards to the reason for the sear.cll being internal versus natioruall, like the position of · the Deean of Engineering, he said., \IBringing two people from off campus in the same year w-o;uld be damaging to the sch.(}oll. Jf the searches had come a few years apart the deci£icm might have been differ~nt.\ Also, ··with admini1;tra~ive positions it makes s.ense to promote from witllin.. ln my judgment it ~ didn't malce sense to bring in tw() omt;i[Je people when there was rulready such a small numbel' 'Df administrators.\ Deam Underwood also stated that wllen be asked the Faculty Exec11tive Committee about by Matt Karlyn Associate News Editor giving imj)ut on the hiring he . Rumors regarding the was giw~n a negative response. recycling policies at Union The Clhairman believed that . College, including the belief becaus~ tlley did not support :that re~yclable material placed the proced:ure they did not feel in the recycling bins is it w.as ap])ropriate the faculty disposed of with all other to lleJp in the search. Union garbage, have recently Theref<Jre, a ,committee of four been denied by the Department faculty nnembers was formed · of Campus Operations. to evaluate the candidates' · Dick Mickus, director of the qualific:atit»ns. These members recycling effort, stated that th1s include ,Chemistry Professor, is an old rumor and is not true. Janet Aoderson, Modern He reports that the garbage that Languages Professor, Sigrid is placed in campus recycling KeUemt•er. Mechanical bins is disposed of properly Engilleeri11g Professor,Frank once a week at the Waste Milillo.. and Economics Management in Amstradam, Professor~PeierProsper. New York. Mickus stated that Tile fac:ulty voted in favor of Union is doing more recycling the mctio;n with a nearly two than most of the City of to o11e margin, yesterday· Schenectady .and \ ... our Dean Uruderwood said, \We. recycling is increasing will now take time to reflect dramatically.\ and and consider more The initial cosf of this comprellemsive reorganization. 11 project . was about $3,000 and ia t~t: past ,tw.~ y~ars l[ f}ip.n . Photo By Scott Steele has spent about $13,000 supporting the recycling effort. President Hull has also been an advocate of the recycling project. Mickus reports that at his residence on campus, the Hull family recycles all of their garbage properly. Mickus further reported that of all the garbage that we collect on campus, only about S percent goes to a landfill. He stated that, \95 percent of Union's garbage goes through some form of reoycling. 11 The adminislration at Union is very supiJortive of the recycling effort Funds for the project have not been a problem, and Mickus reports that, •ir am not fighting Uphill. We really get all the cooperation that we need\ If anyone in the Union community would like to assist in the reoycling effort, ~ committee is now beirig formed. If interested, please call Dick Mickus at extension 6181 .... ·' ' . . . . ...... 0

QJ JJllrllrhb.:ushl New ¥or-k-1nvestigators· al'e,oU~Tently s~cll,ing for the cause of the blasf in fh¢. World 1'ro<l~f·Center that killed at least 5 people last Friday. A1thougll inves:tiigators still do no~ know what kind of bomb caus.ed the blast, or WlhO Set it off, they are considering the idea th~t the event was cau&ed by foreign terrorists. - New York- Governor Mario Cuomo has ~'\Skeet President Clinton to declare New York an ~onomic disaster area in hopes of receivit)g government aid. 'It ha~ been determined that the Wod<. Trade Center will not be itli ·operation for at l~st OI)e week; The economic repercussions are alarming for the small firms restaurants, and shops looated.in·tbis. district Wasbhtgto.-- President Clitl~on appears to be reCeiving suppon from busineSos leaders nationwide for his . economic plan .. Corporate America is responding positively to his plan at the moment. However., perceptions .. may change when the details are examined, Wasbfngt-on- On: Sunday it was disclose<;~. by researchers that . there are at least tweilty·4hree t;ypes_ of mutations of pne gene that can lead to the developrn.emt of a type of Diabetes which mostly · effects children. Stu~Jies were conducted by international researchers who have family members that have been .effected by this disease. lt is believed tllaHhis finding 'llli~ll.t lead researchers t() discover early identifications of Diabetes and possible treatments for the disease ... · New Vurk.- On Monday~ ~too .c0upJes legally te,gistered as · ''(lomestic.partners~~~:.p,ceim\g. S61tle .Qf tlre)'igbts .of m.amed · . couples ~d tate aclmowledg~meatof their untt~lioiUlflives. Six · · weeks ~~. Mayor :Qav#t!j~.,DilltlnS: signed.$ ~xe¢tltive order which: wbulid allow ; ''(Jij1)11e$.'ttc vau~et\ registt~ti~n. for ·. bomosexua~ and ·hetetosex ' .rPeoPie~ the $b0llt Process ~qgites . tbe couple to fill outa fe .•.. · r:rn~. and- prese~t identification. in · · order to receive a eeltificate:'si~ilat 1Q thatoftl'marri~ge license. . ; , - ' _. • . ;- ~ .: \' -- .. I . ': . • • Richmond, VA;: Olivet Nptth, whoJeftthe tell:lnfof politics after the Iran-~oll!tta scandal~ is 'l@king at a possitble Sett~te ·seat in 1994. In Virginia, one ottlre most conserv~tive states in :the Un~on~ N<mb could easily· gtet the. RepulDlico nomination and mount a sut:CesSM Senate cE!n1paign~ . . · · .. ·. · ·- · , lntematioll.al ·News Week .. . . :-: ' -. Paris- A bacterial infectioa that laSt: year caut;ed the death of 63 people .ln France bas been'uaced back for many cases to the consumption of. frozen po;t.lf products. Sttrting January 1st · repol1$·liad e«tsed to. come.in:,·and' officials tho~Jght the outbreak of the infecti()n named Jistet1<ils~ was ovet. fl()wever citizens ~ wam~d • to . tate ·special pre¢~\ltions to prot~t. tbernselves. from .. contracting tM virus Which lJa$·f$rO.ved to be de~dly. · ·Saraj.evo- Tile United States. while. prep~itig to ~alee the .. proPQsed air· drops over besi~ged Muslim tc>wns 1 received word that the suff~ring thot1ght :;till to be bad, isri~t as bad as; it. was several months ago. Qffici~:l h.a<l recently been ·surve~ing the areas that we;re going to rec~i:ye the aid and were startled .to fmd that a lot .ofehange has ~ttr;red sinc.e the des1:!1Jction of the civil war months ~go. Outlying at¢as in the mountainous regions are said to still be bad, arid · relilef workers have been told not to venture out iilto the unexplored areas. Jerusalem- The notoriou~ly famous John Demjanjuk or .. Ivan the Terrible'• who was conw.cred in 1988 of being the sadisticly brutal Israeli Nazi death crump guard, has threatened to go on a hunger strike in an effort to ,appeal his conviction. He has been in · isolation f()r many, years in l$rae1 after extradition from the United States. Demjanjuk'S-lawyer said that he believes that Demjanjuk was going on strike to draw at~ntion. Since Monday, DemjanjUk had supposedly gone on· a water-<>nly diet to prove that he was serious. :in Ws threat. Officials believe this case to be very difficult because there has· been dottibts i11 t:be past to whether or not .the gove~ent has imprisoned ate: right person. NEWS Capital Leonard Hospital Offers :Defensive Driving Co·urse Troy. New York. Leonard Hospital's Community Education Programs Office has scheduled the National Safety Council's Defensive Driving Courses at the Old Roessleville High School located at 1237 Central A venue in Colonie on two consecutive Thursday evenings, Mwch 18th and 25th. Attendance on both Thursdays is required for course completion. The primary objective of the course is to red11ce the number of automobile accidents and fatalities through education. ._., Completion of the course entitles participants to a 10% rate reduction on their automobile collision and liability insurance each year for three years and will reduce the number of p()ints on their driving record by four. Class size is limited. To pre-register f()r any of the above programs, or for additional information, contact the Hospital's Community Education Pro~ram at 233- 0797. American Express Helps the Hungry American Express recently created the \Million Meals,. hunger relief program in response to students • concern about the gmwing hunger problem in the United States. American Express teamed up with Share Our Strength (SOS) to conduct a Million Meals hunger relief campaign for college students who want to help feed needy men, women. and children. From March 15 through April 30th, American Express will donate, thr()ugh SOS, the equivalent of one meal every time a student Cardmember makes a purchase with the American Express Card-- up to one million meals. Through the Million Meals program students will help fight hunger with every purc1lase, including books, clothes,. spring break travel and entertainment, or any other item. Jim Blann, senior vice president of student Card marketing at American Express Travel Related Services Co., Inc. stated that \college-aged adults are extremely concerned about the world outside their campus,\ and \a recent poll of students showed us that they very much wanted to help fight hunger in their communities, and across the nation. We developed Million Meals program so stlldents can easily contribute to a <:ause in which they strongly believe.\ A student Cardmember is an American Express Cardmember who is currently enrolled at a college or university, and applied through the Company~s special student Card program. SOS a non-profit hunger relief organiz[!tion, has long been noted f()r its innovative strategies of matching surplus March 4, 1993, page A3 District food with hungry individuals. For instance, the organization urges restaurants and other food establishments to deliver their daily leftovers to homeless shelters and soup kitchens. Cost-efficient methods such as these enable American Express' Million Meals campaign to feed one million needy people with a total donation by the Company of $90,000 to SOS. In addition to raising relief funds through Million Meals, American Express supports SOS by sponsoring Taste of the Nation, a series of food and wine tasting events across the U.S. that now constitutes one of the largest 11ationwide benefits for hunger relief. Albany Law School's Federalist Society Invites Herb London to Speak On Monday, March 1, 1993, at 7 pm., the Federalist Society will present Herb London. the John M. Olin University Professor of Humanities and Conservative Party Candidate for Governor in 1990, to speak on the state of education in New York. The speech will occur in Room 17 of Albany Law School, 80 New Scotland Avenue, Albany. The public is invited to attend. The Federalist Society is a group of Albany Law School Students dedicated to the open discussion and debate of important legal and political issues. The Federalist Society encompasses two ideologies: the conservative wing advocates of a laissez-faire governmental approach based on tradition and social stability, and the libertarians who believe in a broad definition of personal freedoms. The goal of the Federalist Society is to present both sides of an issue so that individuals Events may make \enlightened choices,\ according to Vice- President Andrew Weiss. Persons interested in more information on the Federalist Society. or the above event, are asked to contact Daniel M. Mitola at (518) 463-0051 Compeer Volunteers are Needed Compeer, part of the Volunteer Center of Albany located at 17 Howard St.. is a program where volunteers arc matched with adults in the community who are diagnosed with a mental ill11ess. Many times people receiving mental health services are very isolated. lonely, and they just need a friend. That is what Compeer is about- Sharing a friendship. Volunteers are needed to 1Jefriend someone who is lonely and having trouble coping with life. Volunteers spend about an hour a week with t!Jeir Compeer friends doing things that friends do: shopping, visiti11g, attending sporting events, movies, etc. Volunteer training and orientation are provided as well as support throughout the match. For more information, call Danny Patrick, Program Director at 432-9307 or visit them at their downtown location in Albany. Senior Class Meeting Thursday at Spm CC305 $35,000 BEFORE YOU GRADUATE The :--.:a\-y offers you, as a qualified college student. tlw chance to earn up to $35.000 during your junim and senior years. And you never have to put on a :\a .. ~· uniform until after graduation. i\io drills. no summer obligations. ~n the :-.iuclear Propulsion Offi~.:er Candid,ltt' Program you'll get your start in nuclt:ar pnwer .,,]wrt· nuclear power started. In the ~avy. After you graduate, you'll get six months of gradu;.1te level engineering education in Orlando, Florida, plus -;ix months of hands-on engineering training at a nuclear reactor trainer. .. and more. just meet these requirernenb: • Have completed sophomore year, majoring in engineering, math, science or chemistry. • Have a minimum 3.0 CPA. • Have completed a mathematics sequence through integral ca:lculus. • Have completed one year of calculus-based phvsics. • Be a United States citizen, no more than 2fi 1 ~ years old at time of commissioning. • Meet Navy's physical standards. Call or visit your Navy representatiYe on campus: 1 - 8 0 0 - 8 4 6 - 4 9 8 0 CHECK WITH PLAca1ENT OFFICE FORDETAlLS NAVY OmCER ~~ ~~~:S::~·.

' March 4, 1993, page A4 NEWS <U111t.c.or:Oteusi.s Campus Trends Across the Syracuse Students Wage Sit-in Some 60 students at Syracuse University s~ged an unruly sit-in last week to protest tuition and fee increases by the university's Board of Trustees. After students blockaded the trustees' entrance to an elevator on campus, the board reconvened the meeting at a near~y hotel where they unammously ratified a 6.5 percent tuition increase and a 4.75 percent room and board increase. \We're going to try and inconvenience the B()ard of Tmstees as much as po.ssible,\ announced Brian West, a member of the Student Government Association Assembly. \As the Board of Trustees comes, kindly tell them where the stairs are.\ Police dispersed the protestors from the School of Management building on campus where the meetillg was to have taken place. The student protestors then followed the board members to a nearby Sheraton Hotel where they tried to gain entrance through the hotel restaunmt. \We want to peaceably go into this establishment and get a cup of coffee,\ West told hotd officials. Hotel and Syracuse police officers denied the students access to tlte building, however, under the New York State innkeepers law which allows hotel officials to deny admittance to anyone so long as the refusal is not based on race or creed. After hearing of the unanimous fee increase, the students marched to tile .office of University Chancellor Kenneth Shaw, where clunting and foot-stamping caused \a · cloud of dust as pla,ster was shaken off the walls.\ New Software Curbs Cheating Cheating has always been an option in the pursuit of higher grades, but some new computer programs have been developed which could render the practice obsolete. \Every student and every instructor knows there is .some chicanery taking place, but demonstrating it is allother story,\ said David Harpp, a chemistry professor at McGill University. Providing s11ch a dernonstratio!l is the val11e of a new type of software developed by Harpp alld his colleague James Hogan. Harpp and Hogan were concerned about cheating on multiple choice exams, so they developed a series of C()rnputer programs which determine the probability that no two answer sheets were copied from each other. The programs compare every possible pair of answer sheets and flag those with a high correlation of correct and -· ..... _ ... ,. .... ~. ---- incorrect answers. These pairs are then matched with the class seating chart. Although the professors have confronted students who showed an undeniable correlation of answers, Harpp said that catching the individual cheaters was not d1e ultimate aim of .the program. Armed with a quantitative measure of many tests, Harpp and Hogan were able to demonstrate with scientific rigor that at least a five percent level of cheating exist in most multiple choice test situations. The positive portion of the study went on to show that if multiple versions of the same test are given, and seating is randomly scrambled on exam day, the percentage of cheaters essentially drops to zero. Harpp and Hogan plan to publish the results of their findings in an upcoming issue of The Journal of Chemical Education. Another prevalent form of academic dishonesty is plagiarism. Dr. Barbara Glatt, a former writing instructor at the University of Illinois who also has a Ph.D. in cognitive psychology, used her unique combination of skills to develop a software package which determines the originality of a student's composition or research paper. \Business is good. Many of the top universities in the country have purchased the (computer) disk,\ said Phyllis Custer, spokesperson for Glatt Plagiarism Services, a company started by Glatt in Chicago. Glatt's service relies on the interaction of students. The computer program extracts a passage from the essay and removes words periodically. The students are then asked to fill in the blank spaces with. the words that appeared in the original compositi()n. The program then analyzes the data. The premise is that students who produced that original work will be able to complete the test in a timely fashion. The precisioll of the program is supported by the fact that no one yet has been falsely accused of plagiarism. The cheating and plagiarism programs were designed with· academic equity and :Prevention in mind rather than a concern with space-age sllfVeillance. \It is the professor's task to make an exam that is fair and reasonable, and also to create a structure for the students which is also fair and reasonable,\ Harpp said. Glatt's plagiarism service includes tutorial program3 which instruct students n the documentation ·of secondary sources. · Student who have committed minor misappropriations can be instructed to consult these study aids rather than undergo punishment which is entirely negative. Harpp and Hogan have had similar positive results with tbeir research. · Their presentation convinced administrators at McGill to mandate scrambled multiple- version ex:ams and scrambled seating. But, unlik:e Glatt's service, Harpp has yet to go public. \I don't want to sell it and nobody has been mslling to buy it, partly because they're going to find stuff they don't want to find,\ Harpp said. ,College Entrance Exams Cal~led Biased by Critics The colltroversy over bias in college entrance ex.a.ms is growing as new ev.id.ence surfaces from various testing organizations. In e11trance exams s111ch as Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT). white male stlldents consistently score higber than females and students of color, according to officials at FairTest, a national ()enter devoted to fair and open testing. \Girls do . better in botll high school and college, yet tlley do significantly worse o.n the SAT. What's wrong? Is it the four years of school or is it the test? We suggest it is the test,\ said Cinthia Schuman, executive director of FairTest. \The same problem e~ists for minorities. These tests .to not always reflect someone's aptitude and ability to .attend college;\ FairTest officials C()n tend that both the content and format of entrance ex:.ams favor affluent with males. Schuman asserts that these exams are more indicative of a student's ·gender, culture and income level than ability. t t ' A central cause of bias is the way that questions are posed in standardized exams. For instance,. the names and examples in many questions have a psychological impact on student understanding of the questions, and more often than not, those names and exampks involve male figures. Immigrants who take the SAT experience tremendous problems because English is not their first language, and most :test companies do not accommodate such students. Other investigations have confirmed a degree of bias towards males in national test scores. A study by the Educational Testing Service revealed that male average 35 points higher on the SAT math section than females, although high school math grades by females are consistently higher than their male counterparts. Due to the growing perception of bias, many people are pushing for reforms to admission procedures. Most testing activities would like to see a greater emphasis placed on actual grades, extracurricular activities and other aspects of student life rather than strict reliance on a single test. Treatment Available for Ex~m Anxiety Most students experience anxiety about tests at one time or another, but for many, exams can be the ca11se of undue stress and in some cases, serious mental illness. \The term 'test anxiety' is used so often today that it really has no meaning of its own,\ said Robert Mittan, a counselor at the University of Arizona Learning Center. \During the past two years, I've had over 00 students come into my office saying that they suffer from test anxiety. We try to identify, r~latively speaking, whether its a general or particufar problem. Test anxiety bas a lot of ingredients.\ Those ingredients include a number of outside factors, accordi11g to Mittan. Typically~ a student will carry outside stress factors into the classroom,. which adds to the nonnal an~iety associated with testing. Today, many universities employ counselors who specialize in helping student to cope with :pressures both in and out of the classroom. \I specialize in teaching people relax.ation strategies and techniques for learning to realistically assess their psychology, so that they will understand,that when their heart is beating faster it doesn't necessarily mean that that they are having a heart attack,\ said Dr. Marian Binder, a clinical psychologist at the University of Arizona. \I teach students a variety of abdominal breathing techniques designed to help. control their physiology,\ Binder said. In many cases, specialized help is available for students who suffer from documented learning disabilities, and not mere anxieties about testing. Counselors at the Arizona Learning ·Center recently founded the Strategic Alternative Learning Techniques {SALT) program for learning-disabled students, who were allowed to take modified tests. \We are hear strictly to llelp people deal with their learning disabilities,\ said SALT Director Beverly Sandock. SECURITY REPORT DATE LOCATION: INC IDE;IIJT: 2/22/93 Alexander Lane M.V. acddent-no . InJUries \Reseruch has shown that there are a significant n11mber of questions on the (SAT) tes which favor males,\ Sch11man said. \There is a lar,ge gap between those questi()D:S tha favor males and those that . 2/22/93 Edwards House Life Safe1l£ Violation favor females.\ Schuman said a typical SAT questi()n that favors males involves computing 'Ninning percentages of a high ~chool basketball team, a task: that makes more boys feel comfortable than girls. \Givell that you are ali<>wed less than a minute to a11swer each q11estion, it is very import~nt that you feel comfortable immediatelr,'\ she said. \Research shows that girls tend to work a little slower md more carefully, and they d()n 't feel as comfottable with guessing. But guess:ing is a big trick to this test.' 1 Also, of the mme than 15,000 National Merit Semifinalists in 1991-92, about 59 percent were males and 39 percent were females. accordi11g to FairTest officials Analysts at FairTe~t cite various reasons for the differe11ce, but especially the fact that national e,;ams emphasize academic subjects and areas of study which are not available in many J)ublic schools that have limited resources and large eihnic populations. ' 2122193 2/23/93 iV23193 2124193 2/24193 2/24193 2/24/93 2124/93 2/24/93 2/24/93 2/25/93 2125/93 2/26/93 ~/26/93 2/27/93 2/27193 2/27/93 2/28/93 2/28/93 ~/28/93 ~128/93 2/28193 ~/28/93 .. North CoHege Vandalism-door latch Quiet Road Parkin~':~ croblem Davidson Vandalism-window Richmond Unauthor-ized v.endor notice Camous Theft-aas can to coller~e vehicle cc circle M.V. accident-no injuries Admin/Beeker lots llleaal oarkina-tow Ravmond/Potter Theft-lie ense nlate S&E basement E!;luigme nt malfunction- wat.er leak cc circle Safety Hazard-garking Lenox Road Tres12 ass•no n students David son Possessi<mluse of controlled substance Off Cam~us Student arr.est Raymond Unsanita rv condition Fox Intentional false fire alarm Delta Phi lot Va nda !ism/theft of hub cao:s from guesi vehicle Cam gus Ab11se of escort service Came us Safetv Arrest-non student .. variou~ charaes Admin lot AtternRted gas theft from garked vehicle College Center Safet~ Hazacd Bay/Potter lot Va!]dalism-sjde rear view mirror ~ Ra~m ond Vandalism -window Ca mJ2us '[~ower fai'lure . -

NEWS Mandelbrot Gives Founder's Day :Speech Cont. from page AI results are beautiful.\ Although Mandelbrot stressed the importance of the beauty of matbematical and physics he explained that there is more to fractals than \just a pretty picture,\ ill an interview prior to his speech. \Mathematics a11d physics help define the rea:! world,\ he assured. \The main .purpose of fractals is very practical.\ \Mandelbrot eK.plained how fractals are found everywhere in nature. One example he gave was coal soot. If a piece of shoot was magnified many times it would show sharp edges. Th~se barbed particles are what coal miners breath in. Because they are pointed they get latched onto the miner's lungs and cause diseases. Scientists, according to Mandelbrot, are \trying to make the soot into balls to prevent diseases. If this is accomplished a.nd a miner breatlts ill the particles he can sneeze- them back out of his lung·s.\ Mandelbrot ... encourages students to open Photo By Brianna Patnode \keep their options open.\ He stresses, \I do not want 11s to forget the units of 'feeling' and 'knowledge'. their eyes to science and to GOOD LUCK ON FINALS.!!! Think Spring * Think Spring! . P R l N t I. P L E S tJ f S 0 U N D R E T I R E M E N T l :'-l· V E S T J. N G ' , UNFORTUNATELY; TillS IS WHERE PEOPLE ARE PUTTING TOO MANY RETIREMENT DOLLARS. E very year, a lot of people. rn.a.kc a huge mistake on their tax:es. They don't take advantage of tax deferral .and wind up sending Uncle Sam tn()ney they could he saving for retirement. Fortunately, that's a mistakeyou can easily.avoid with TIAA-CREFSRAs. SRAs not only ease your current ta.x- bite, they offer a remarkably ea.sy way to build retirelt)ent income-especially for th c ·~extras\ that your regtalar pension and Social Security benefits ID~l;,V not · cover. Because your contrib~:~tions are made 10 before-tax dollars, you ,pay less taxes now. And since all earnings on your SRA are tax-deferred as IVell, the money you don't send to Washington works even harder for you. Down the road, that can make a dramatic .difference in your quality of life. What else makes SRAs so special? A range of allocation choices-from the guaranteed security of TIAA to the diversified investment accounts of CREF's variable annuity-all backed by the nation's number one retirement system. Why write off the chance for a more rewarding retirement? CaU today and learn more about how TIAA-CREF SRAs can help you enjoy many happy returns. Bmefit nuw from tna Jkferml. CtJll our SRA hotlim 1 800-842-2733; me. 8016. 75 years ofensl:lring the future for those who sll.ape it!,. 1fo. II~! March 4, 1993, page AS Forum Crosstalk Cont. from page Al high school. Students were required to sign a statement on every test and p~per which stated that they had not received prior information or assistance in their preparation. Every time a student was alleged to have cheated, the case went before the Dean of Students. If the Dean believed that a valid complaint existed. then the student accused of the infraction went before the Honor Council. A small offense of the honor code usually resulted in a two or three week suspension, and a larger offense could lead to expulsion. Jennifer Unterberg described how the presence of an honor code \gives students another reason not to cheat\. \It sets standards, and says that cheating is wrong, and that it is not fair to you or your classmates.\ Unterberg believes that Union students would feel more confident in themselves in the presence of an honor code, and that the code \would lift morality here\. Mter the in-depth description of honor codes, student and faculty in attendance were given the opportunity to voice their opinions on whether an honor code would be valuable at Union. Although a recent Concordiensis survey found that 89 percent of the students support an honor code, little more than half of the students in attendance Wednesday appeared to have those sentiments. The first student to voice an opinion was Andy Goldberg ('93). Goldberg believes that \ .. .there is no need for a code because students know what constitutes moral and normal behavior, and students should not be questioned on every assignment they turn in\. Unterberg, and any other students who support the honor code, believe that people sh()uld be proud to sign their names on every assignment, because it is a sign of integrity. A student in attendance who had been suspected of academic dishonesty stated that he/she would support the honor code at Union because under the current system (whereby a professor must allege a student}, \a student is guilty until proven innocent.\ If an honor code existed, the person stipulated \would be given the benefit of the doubt\. A debate emerged among the students over whether the benefits of having a unified system of dealing with academic dishonesty were greater than the responsibilities of 'turning your friends in\. Students in favor of the honor code believe that under the current system. students receive a different punishment for engaging in the same dishonest behavior. \the punishments range from the professpr talking to a student to a professor failing a student. for the same offense\. according to one student. Some students who oppose the honor code believe that not every case of dishonesty is black and white, and that certain cases should only involve a discussion between a professor and a student. Professor Allen seemed to echo the faculty sentiments that an honor code would be welcome at Union. \The school must send a message that it will not toletate academic dishonesty, otherwise it is in complicity with cheating. there are between 500 and 100 cases of academic dishonesty a year, and tile current system is unequipped to deal with it\. As a result of the controversy that this meeting spurred, it was agreed that the matter would be discussed again in the near future. DON'T DRINK AND DRIVE. A public service message from Con cordi. SEE YA!- PAM SEEYAl-NED Good Luck· Concordiensis! It's All Yours! With Love From The Former News Editor . . . ...

~ <lr.oltfllrbitttsts Founded at Union College 1877 Editor-in-Cbief Executive Editor News Editors Ned Walley Pam Leinson Lara Cllamberlain, David Levine, Veronica Rogers Commentaries Editor Lea Lewis Features Editors Doug Bartell, Erin M. O'Neil Layout Editors Lisa Lemoi, Buffy Rubenstein Arts Editors Belinda Crago, Nili Goldin, Talley Belsinger Sports Editors Rich Morgan, Hal Poret Science Editor _ Eileen Colkin Advertising Editors Lauren Bycoff, Rachel Tuck,Jen Shulkin Campus_Page Editors Kate Cartland,Scott Asher,Jen Poldmetz Survey Editor Jeff Green Photography Editors BrianiJa Patnode SPECIAL THANKS & A REALISTIC OUTLOOK It almost seems customary in an editorial to write about something that it upsetting. It is so easy to blame the administration for any perceived problem at the sc!Jool, or to criticize students for their alleged 'apathy'. Well, now is the time for all good people to come to the aid of their school by complementing those people who have made Union a better place. Thank you to the faculty who treat students as their equals, and are truly concerned with students' progress, inside and outside the classroom. For students to know that someone otber than their parents and friends have taken an interest in his/her development makes getting an education at Union that much more rewarding. Thanks to the administrators who have 'open doors' to the students and who are concerned about how the college can be changed to provide a better learning environment. It is through the recognition of students' needs and desires that ·these people have enhanced the college experience. Finally, thanks to all those students who devote themselves to improving Union academically, socially, and thro11gh extra- curricular activities. Without your motivation, Union wouid be a dull campus, like most other schools. For all of you who are searching the newspaper to see if this is the Distortiensis, you are naysayers. Union is not snch a bad I place when you look through the eyes of an optimist. Let us all . take on a positive attitude, and if we all work together, I'm sure that we can improve the atmosphere at Union even mOO'e. Realistically, there are many things that could be improved at Union, and it would be ridiculous to assume that all professors care, that all administrators make policies in the best interest of the student body, and that all students have enough school spirit 1o be truly concerned with improving Union. The fact is, the school has lost a lot of its prestige., and it is unlikely that Union will return to being as renowned as an Ivy League school. However, it will never improve unless a majority of students m2k:e a concerted effort to educate themselves broadly, and try to put Schenectady back on the map. On that last statement, April Fools! Faculty Advisor Manager Subscription Manager Associate News Editors Associate Sports Editors Associate Photography Editor Layout Staff Advertising Staff Scott Scullion Deb Mcinerney Matt Grabowski Caroline Paine, MaU Karlyn, Craig Greenberg Dagan La Corte Josh Haines. Scott Steele David Fischer Sharon Smith, Fran Goldstein, Christine Gagliano, Jodie Adams STAFF WRITERS: Thor Benander, Bruno Bellzaquen, Gary Chase, Amy Cypres, Michelle EDis, Cindy Hills, Greg Kalish. Alexis Leist, Craig Pike, Heather Reynolds, Christopher Ringwald, Dass Seaman, Mirriam Seddiq. SUBMISSIONS: All submissions to Concortlie11sis are due the Tuesday before publication by 4PM if they are submitted 011 Macintosh Microsoft WordTM Disks. Otherwise all submissions are due Monday by 4PM in the drop box outside of the Concordiensis office on the third floor of the College Center. CONCORDIENSIS is published eight Thursdays a term by the student body of Union College, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office; Susquehanna Publicatioms, Inc., Box 388, Sidney, New York 13838 (607) 563-8339. Subscription rate: $40 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. Mail Subscriptions to Concordiensis office, College Center, Union College. Concordiensis s11bscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP). Office Telephone (518) 370- 6155, Advertising Telephone (518) 37()..6494. M~NT OFF\CE &\1/b f'\;O'?l-~ , , ,1\\'1 INC8'l.ll\l~ . Td ~So~\ 'RIC!-\- \:~~ Tl:\£ PDOR ~~ 'N\-\E~ N\EL \)lf,G::>\JI2\<-b? t-, ti\\11\L fli>-.W \N ~\(. 11 \R.\C..\<Lr; \J?'' \~tOR'< ... OPINIONS SECURITY PROBLEMS: ''Do Students Feel Safe?\ by Mirriam Seddiq Opinions Columnist My topic tnis week was going to be completely non- confrontational. Notice the use of 'was going to be.' Well, I decided that there was an issue at hand that needed to be confronted, now. Have you ever thought about how safe you are? I have. And, in doing so I have realized that 1 AM NOT SAFE. I cannot take a shower in my apartment when no one else is home without locking myself in tbe bathroom and peering around the shower curtain every few minutes. Now, when I walk during the day. I am aware of every shadow and rustle around me. Never mind how I feel when I walk at night. As a woman, 1 am denied that privilege. I remember being 13 years old and reading about a woman who was raped at home. Her husband left for work that morning. followed by the children. So, after completing her motherly and wifely duties. she decided to take a long shower. Someone knew her schedule. Doesn't everyone know a homemaker's schedule? She is usually in the house alone all day. . . and she is NOT SAFE! Not in her own home. Women have been assaulted and abducted during the day, 'woman - 11apped' I suppQse could be the proper word for it. since I would hesitate to say that we are all kids. How frightening to know that my musculatme was designed in such a way that I cannot fight a brute who dec.:ides to deny me the ·-right to form a daily roptine. Daily routine seems to be the key phrase.- I suppose the most efficient way of avoiding an assault is to live your life in chaos. Oh, yo11 remember the woman -- Linda Yalem,- a SUNY/Buffalo student who was raped and killed while running last year. The murder was committed on a public bike path on a Saturday ~'ternoon.· DO YOU FEEL SAFE? So, if it's midnight and I'm feeling too stressed for words, I cannot escape my thesis hell with a walk througt::. this campus. It is not safe for me to walk alone; they have told me that. My friends walk with me. Sometimes • you know how it is - sometimes you are dying to be alone. But you can't. You just can't. Since the age of two we were told that no place is safe. So, if it's midnight and it's been snowing, and I have been studying all night in the library, then those same people who caution you about walking home alone at night will tell you that it's not 'their' problem how you get home. Do you not understand? Are you confused? Well, so am I. I was asked to write this piece by a friend of mine who related several disturbing incidents to me. So, in order to get to the bottom of this. let's start from the top. You all remember the incredible snows of these past weeks. Yeah. it was pretty ... whatever. My point is that it was obviously unsafe driving weather and security was not running its escort vehicles. This would be all fine and well if students were warned in advance that such a situation might occur. But, they weren't. To me this seems like a blatant disregard for the lives and well-being of the women on this campus. Several women told me that they had called security to ask for off- campus escorts. They .were refused. They then asked for a walking escort (if you've never heard of such a thing, it's because Union doesn't offer it.) Security denied them that. also. A friend of mine called Security and asked why there was no implementation of a walking escort system. They said that they had tried it. but it had been abused. ABUSED? How do you 'abuse' a walking escort - aside from beating him over the head? Do you -!10~. think . that the safety of many is worth the abuse by a few? If you tell me 1 am not safe, if you know that I am not safe, then how is it that you refuse me the bit of safety that I can get? You say to me \it's not .our problem how you get home.\ How do you do that and still say that your objective is the safety, the security of people on this campus. What if ... What if 1 was at a party on a Saturday night and it had started to sn:ow heavily during the first llour I was tllere7 I have confidence that I have as much a right to go to a party as my male peers do. But, I forget. I am a woman. I llave to worry about how I am going to get home. Will I have to walk alone? Never fear, security is here! Well. that's obviously not how it works ... Now. what if ail of my friends left me at this party and the only people left are the members of the 'social organization'? I can call security and they will pick me up, right? Wrong, Now, let us imagine that my only almost-safe option is to let a member of the organization walk me home. I am drunk, he is drunk. We walk home. I pass out. I wake up. There is something happening that 1 do not want to be happening, yet I am too afraid to stop it A continuation of this would lead us into discourse on date - rape. But; let's put it this way: everything starts somewhere. And. if security refuses to pick up a woman, refuses to drive her ot walk her (without giving . forewarning that the WILL NOT be running escort) then they lrave given license to such m occurrence. So, does this mean that Security doesn't give a damn about women at Union? It . seems plausible. I mean, what are we to the world anyway? If this is not the case, then I think those who are responsible for making these decisions come forth with ANSWERS. When my life is endangere~ excuses won~~ dq.

OPINIONS Bring Honor to Union by Jennifer Unterberg Concordiensis Staff This has to do with much more than the act of cheating. This has. to do with honor, maturity, and the realization that your actions affect others. This has to do with merit, as well as the confidence and determination to overcome your obstacles and prove to yourself that you can do it. This has to do with pride and respect for your classmates. your professors, and yourself. This has to do with honesty. integrity, and pride. This has to do with the Honor Code: a system in which you, the student, become an adult, responsible for your own actions, as well as others. A system in which you are graded on merit; where the professors respect you.and give you the benefit of the doubt. A system which instills values of morality as well as inner pride. The act of cheating does not merely entail plagiarism, looking on a classmates test, or using a \cheat sheet\. It entails the devaluation of the principle of \merit\. devaluating the value of \effort\, devaluating your confidence in your self, and devaluating the trust among the student body and the professors. In other words, the devaluation of 'honor'. Union College must implement an Honor Code, not to punish those who cheat, but enhance the persistence of the student body to overcome Academic Life at Union To the Editor: Cheating or dishonest academic behavior is not infrequent on campus. Last Wednesday evening, the Student Forum sponsored a Town Meeting to discuss the possibility of creating an Honor Code for Union College. Of the more than sixty students present none could affirm that they bad never cheated themselves, or knew someone who had cheated at Union. Supporting the implemen- tation of an Honor Code means more than a signature pledging oneself to academic honesty. It entails supporting a change in the overall academic environment at the College. An Honor Code, in any variation, would affll'Dl a moral commitment to maintaining a rewarding academic experience. People are caught up in the technicalities of what an Honor Code would mean. Some seemed more concerned with having to sign their name (arguing it is an insult to their integrity) or the possibility of obstacles. Not every homework assignment seems possible, not every course load seems manageable, and not every exam seems passable. The implementation of an Honor Code would create a community of students and faculty who would acknowledge such difficulties and commend all efforts. As true success is achieved by the overcoming of one's obstacles. cheating remains its antithesis. We, the student body of Union College have complained that our role at Union is not active enough. By implementing an Honor Code, the role of professors as 'policeman' would decrease and a :council embodied by fellow students would prevail. A person who has cheated would not be sent to administration, but would go in front of fellow classmates, maintaining the secrecy of every person and every process. It is the Honor Council which would represent and enforce the principle behind the Honor Code. Each violator would have his/her case heard and evaluated by his own colleagues. The council would . then form a recommendation to the dean. The punishment would fit the crime, as well as the specific situation. The purpose of the punishment would be to teach the student not to cheat; ·for the person who cheats must learn, not only of the detriment of his actions, but, must be given the having to tum in their friends, than with the underlying premise of what honor and what honesty is. People should not cheat. It is unacceptable. It is wrong. It is unfair. We need to be intolerant of students who use illegitimate methods of completing their · assignments or taking their exams. We cannot tolerate students who are hardly working, while other students are working hard. Individuals who cheat are hurting themselves, of course, but they are also diminishing the. quality of academic life at Union. A signature re-enforces one's commitment to honesty and integrity. Turning in your friends should not be the issue, because your friends should not cheat. We need to change the academic atmosphere at Union College. The central idea of an Honor Code is to establish a community of trust. It would be created by the student body and could also be administered by members of the student body. An Honor Code should set forth an uncompromising commitment to high academic standards, performance, and individual responsibility. I can't urge you enough to welcome the idea. Respectfully, · ·Karen Hurwitz !9-3 confidence to work towards his potentiaL Although, under this code, students must tum in fellow students for violating the Honor Code, the tragedy is not that you might have to tum a friend in, the tragedy is that your friend cheated and put you in this difficult situation. The responsibility is truly on the person who cheated, however, his cheating affects other; therefore, if he refuses to tum himself in, you must take on the responsibility.· Your name will remain confidential. This code places trust in yourself, your professors, and your classmates. When a professor hands out an assignment or distributes a test, your cheating is not only disrespectful to your professor and your class mates, but to yourself. You can do it, you don't have to cheat. Just give it a try. Give this honor code a try, it can only bring benefits. Look beyond technicality, look beyond detail. Look into yourself and ask yourself, does it bother you that people cheat? That your hard work is devaluated? Even more importantly, look into yourself and ask yourself. was the grade worth the cheating! Would you rather have truly succeeded by overcoming the obstacle? Union students, look into yourself and look at those around you. An Honor Code is needed. An Honor Code which symbolizes your values ... effort, merit, and integrity. LETTERS Debate Op~nly or Keep Silent To the Editor: As relative newcomers to Union College, we have been pleased to see, in tile pages of the Concordiensis, frequent open and lively debate about serious issues. Such debate has been a welcome variation from the trite sensationalism (or sensational triteness) of t,he professional media; many of us find more of real interest in our weekly ConcordieiiSis read than in a week of listening to Dan, Tom, Oprah, and Cokie. For this reason, we have been both delighted and disturbed by the recent series of articles and letters about women's voice(s) in the classroom. As none of us were in the class in which the incident prompting this debate occurred, and as the two sides present very different versions of this incident, we. cannot comment on the relative \truth\ of the two versions. We can, however, respond to the rhetoric employed in this exchange. Our purpose in doing so is not to cool down March 4, 1993, page A Founder's Day Frustration by Matt Karlyn Associate News Editor How important is the 198th birthday of a college? Not only does this birthday signify one hundred and ninety eight years of continuing education at our school, it demonstrates the commitment to education and higher learning at Union and colleges and 11niversilies around the nation. Yet, to Union College, February 25, 1993 was just another working day. Had I not known Benoit Mandlebrot was speaking on campus, 1 would !lave never even known it was our birthday. I attended t' • speech not because it was fvunders Day, but because I wanted to hear Mr. Mandlebrot speak. At the Founders Day convocation in Memorial Chapel, which was (not to my surprise) half empty, President Hull addressed those who were in attendance. However. I don't even think the President knew it was Founders Day. He gave a very short speech that would have been great two years from now, but -he simply did not address the importallce of what one hundred and ninety eight years mean or what the college is concentrating on now. It was a very good assessment of passions or cut off debate, but rather to encourage it. Nothing would please us more than a response telling us how wrong our views are. But such a letter would have to address our views, not us. The response to Amy Cypres's article fails to make this distinction: it sees Amy's attack on a way of speaking (or not speaking) as an attack on the \womanhood\ of the speaker. In doing so, it comes dangerously close to replicating what it accuses Amy of doing. Such an attack, as far as we can tell, was not Amy's intention (though at times the passion of her rhetoric could prompt such a misreading). Amy was instead attacking an unwritten code of behavior, a kind of censorship which, operating both externally and internally, can and does stifle women's voices in the classroom and beyond. This code, as Amy notes, and as Hillary Rodham Clinton will testify to, even prescribes the punishment for , those who break it: the reduction of the speaker to a stereotype, a \radical feminist bitch.\ This sort of personal reduction, which n()t only stifles speech but stifles it at its origin, represents a profound yet insidious danger to freedom of expression. As a student said at a recent what two hundred years will bring, but it refused to address what one hundred and ninety eight has already accomplished. President Hull spoke of great things that are going to take place in the next two years. He spoke of our brand new theater. restored N ott Memorial, and remodeled Schaffer Library. He has wonderful plans for the 200th, I only wish that I was going to be here to enjoy them, but I'm not. So. what about me and my peers in both the classes of 1993 and 1994? Are our years here just being passed over in preparation for that really important year, 1995? President Hull, are you telling us that the years we spend here are unimportant and should be overlooked because in 1995 really good things are going to happen? l certainly hope not. This year Founders Day just came and went. No celebration, no party. no enthusiasm. As I sat in Memorial Chapel wondering where all the students, faculty and administrators were I felt betrayed by my College. Our birthday was forgotten. · President Hull, I certainly hope that our 200th is everything you believe it is going to be. Crosstalk, we have to learn how to be passionate about ideas without being dismissive of persons. Still, we imagine (or hope) that Amy is pleased with the published response to her article. While it misidentifies the point of Amy's attack, it does make an eloquent plea for tolerance and free debate. The irony is, of course, that this plea makes the two writers allies. And therein lies the danger of confusing the message and the messenger: doing so prevents us from seeing our commonality of interests, the reasons we are all here. We wish we could end this letter witll such an upbeat message. But unfortunately the debate which we applaud in The Concordiensis has moved beyond the boundaries of the paper and civilized discourse, into the realm of anonymous notes and threats. This sort of intellectual terrorism should have no place at Union College, or anywhere else for that matter. Join the debate openly or keep silent, but do not try to silence others. You may find it hard to believe, but they do not want to silence you. --Louisa Mallhew, Hugh Jenkins, Victoria Martinez, Robert Phelan, Louis Martinez

March 4,1993, page A8 A Campus Wide Problem To the Editor: This is in response to Mirriam Seddiq's comments last week in the Concordiensis about greeks and the \lack of community\ at Union College. Once again, the greek system was the target of criticism. It was accused of being the source of disunity on campus. ll is true that many greeks are very close to other greeks, but this is also true of athletes, peopl'e of the same major, people in the same club, and even students who live on the same floor. Clearly, many other types of organizations and \cliques\ exist on campus. These are all formed unintentionally, because of a common interest among students, and is a very natural and acceptable process. Many \cliques\ fonn from clubs and sports. Even students who have common majors who take the same classes form cliques. Think about the residence halls such as West, North, and Smith House for example; \cliques\ develop depending on where and how you spend your time. It is unrealistic to expect students at Union to get to know the entire student population ... This is spreading oneself thin, and very unrealistic. Obviously, there are activities which may be appealing to some and other that do not. Many independents and greeks are friends-best friends. There are no set boundaries or rules that determine whom one may speak to or integrate with. There is not a designated \greek\ section in the College Center; there is no assigned \greek\ seating in classes or at football and hockey games; there is no \greek\ gym; nor is there a special bar room at fraternities for \greeks only.\ In fact, many of tile activities that greeks are involved in. independents are welcome too. For example, Delta Gamma had sponsored a campus-wide brunch on Sunday, February 21st. In addition, many greeks on campus are very involved . Greek life is only one facet_ of their lives. For example, many play sports, and are actively involved in SADD, We Care About U, Montebanks, Students Forum, the CDC, JSU and the Concordiensis. Greek organizations also do a lot for the community. For example, Delta -Delta Delta alone has raised over 10,000 for Children's Cancer. Not only do greek organizations offer benefits: for the community, but also for those who chose to become involved in them. l)eing in an organization of any sort teaches members to become tolerant and respectful of ()!hers who are both similar and different. A . sense of intimacy, loyalty and friendship is developed, and it is in an organization that we learn the importance of .a oe:twork of people. Members also learn leadership qualities, C()Operation, discipline, and sacrifice for one another and for llh~ good of the group as a 'NI1ole. It aU depends on how you clloosc to shape your college ex.periencc. No one should feel the pressure to be greek o.r intlependent. Moreover, no one shoul<l be ashamed to be either o11e of these. If you choose to oe greek, you should wear your Hetters with confidence. If you cll!oosc to be independent, you should be proud also. But dDn't become so preoccupied witth criticizing an organization that you are not a part of that it hillders your own college ex.perience. It is more worthwhile to find where you can develop your inte11ests. There are more than one or two organizations here at Union. Everyone has a place. On the contrary Mirriam, or _ganizations are essential, because this is the gmund wilere students of common interests may come together aad share ideas. If we lacked these organizations, we would lack unity. Without these organizations to become im-volved in, students would be Dost and apathetic. In society in general, it is important to adopt a mature a11d tolerant attitude. Let llS all ha. ve respect and tolerance for o11e another. Respect, not bitterness, is what will e11courage unity at Union College. Also, here at Union, as well as in society, if we acknowledge a problem, we cannot merely whine and point the finger to another group. We should have solutions to g() along with out complaints. OIDe system cannot be blamed for a campus-wide problem. We are a community here at U11ion, and we should take on the responsibility as a whole. Corinne Hsu '94 Interview for the Admissions Office! 'To the Editor: 'The Admissions Office offers rising seniors a unique O()portunity to have a direct impact on the future of Union Colle_ge, hone interpersonal skills and gain impressive work . \ exJlenence .. The admissions internship is extremely demanding, but w.ithout a doubt one of the mCJst rewarding positions av:ailable at Union. You will participate in a number of .tr~ning sessions, in addition to ob-serving admissions officers i11terview prospective students. When you are ready to interview on your own, you will be paired with a dean for •rnentoring. The position is paid, you are expected to work ~ix: to eight hours a week and one Saturday a month. We ur_ge all nsmg seniors ·interested in the admissions pr()cess and looking f<>r a pe1sonai challenge to apply. Admission to the prqgram is ll!ghly selecti_ve~ _ ~o~p_eti_t~ve LETTERS candidates will be risi11g seniors with strong listenirug and evaluation skills, who ha\e successfully met the acadern:ic challenges and fully explored the broad range of extra curriCular activities at Unimn College. Prior service to ~he Admissions Office is looked upon favorably, but is not a prerequisite. If you are interested, attend one of the mandatory meetin~s on Sunday March 7 or Mon<lay March 8, at 7:30 pm in the Admissions Office. You will meet current interns and Knis Gernert-Dott '86, Assistamt Dean of Admissions .and program coordinator. ·We will discuss the position and tile selection process in greater detail. Applications will <lbe available. Hope to see you there! Julie Jamieson '93 Roxanne Schneider '93 Course Choices are Lacking To the Editor: Due to the fact that it is virtually impossible to get a11y of the classes that I would lilke to take during Spring term. I am being forced to take classes that are less than appealing to me. I have never taken a Chine:se class before, but after looking at the course selection bookUet twenty-five million times, tihe only class available ·is \Advanced Chinese f10r Economics Majors\ taught by one of my roommates wllio, herself, has never taken a Chinese class before. Gremt, now my roommate and I rure going to have to travel to China. over Spring Break to gain sorne background on the culture. She said that there is a litlfle garden snake hole in her ba(;k yard, so we can use that as. a starting point for our tunnel to the Orient. Since I was never able to get a course ,in geography, we will proba!J.ly end up right back in the capitol district. On a more serious note,. I think it is very sad that we p;ay a huge sum of money to taike courses that have no meani11g to us. I am a freshman who lias not decided on her major yet. I do, however,. have cert&in interests which I would like to explore. For the past two terms:, 1 have been quite lucky in tlhe courses that have. b-een available to me. That is not tihe case ·for the coming terrm. When we start at Union we mre told that we have requirememts to fulfill. How can we fulfill these requirements when we cannot get into these requirted courses. As of now, I feel like I have two choices. I can either take three Precepts simultaneously, running back and forth from classroom to classroom or 1 can take my · advanced Chinese Class f()r Economics Majors. Oh, and if anyone has any relatives in China maybe my roommate and I can stay with them. . . . _ _ _ __ A.im~e ~o~ew al_d '9(5 -,The Se.a.r.ch for s,e)f To the Editor: The truth is Ms. Cypress, you are speaking to a vacuum. The vacuum is between the ears of the majority of the human race. It is not ignorance or apathy, Mr. Fausty, but rather an inability to think on a higher level than that of a barroom conversation. People are indoctrinated, Ms. Seddiq, because it is easier than thinking for oneself. Most live in a world in which conformity is chosen for its ease and comfort is sought for its passivity. A world in which the essence of humanity-freedom of choice, thought and action- is denied. They do not meet their lives, but rather walk around them, avoiding confrontation. They shield themselves from all possibilities that threaten to upset their perfect state of inactivity and inertia. They remove themselves from the difficulties of contemplation. of creating their own essence. Most do not .reflect upon their lives and their deaths. They do not ask \who am I\ but rather let society give them its definition. For them, being is not an issue, they live on the simplest level without considering life and deny their choices. They seek a life of ease and mediocrity. The limit they take life to is the limit society sets for them. They strive to be taken by the hand and led through this world with no effort or struggle. The search for a comfortable homeostasis where all life is determined by outside forces beyond their control. They let society create the ocean upon whose waves they ride. Are you not a bit envious? How easy it would be to live as the average person! How simple would existence be if society created my essence and chose my life! But I. like you, am cursed with a gift of unceasing thought. I cannot choose conformity. I do not want contentment. An inextinguishable fire burns within me. It is a painful urging·that calls me to search for an elevated state of self- consciousness. It pushes me towards self overcoming. I search to .answer the question \Who am I\ even though it may drive me mad. I cannot accept societies definitions. C!L1lllfllflti£1t.Si.S life's dock running down to its eventual stand still. The, omnipresent tick tack keeps me aware that I must sieze every moment and choice. I am the prime mover unmoved. I make my Waking destiny. But most do not hear the tick-tock. This is why my cries, similar to yours, fall on deaf ears. Call me an elitist, a fascist, a Nazi, what have you. I do not follow,· but I do not wish to ·lead. This is the way of the world. We are seekers and we are few. Especially at Union. Respectfully, Beth Lifson '95 A Great Winter Affair To the Editor: On Saturday February 20, 1993 Union experienced a remarkable event. For the first time in our schools history, four hundred Union students, from all areas of the soci~l spectrum. gathered together for a night of dancing, music, food and drinks at the all school formal, A Winter Affair. As two members of the formal committee, 'we would like to thank all those who attended the formal for making it a huge success. We. hope that this formal will become a tradition, which will help in establishing a sense of community here at Union. We were pleased to see a mixture of independents and Greeks enjoying an evening together in a non-Greek oriented activity. We hope that this is only the beginning of things to come. Finally, we would -like to extend an extra special thank you to all those on the formal committee for all their hard work. The formal could not have succeeded without you!! Looking forward to next · year .... Amy Blumstein '94 Allison Goldberg '95 The contemplation of my life and death cannot be ignored, but constantly nags at my todnented mind. I cannot tum off my thought and deceive myself. I cannot escape my own freedom of choice and the responsibility th.at goes therewith. I cannot deny this knowledge. I cannot live in self deception and bad faith. I strive to the point of anguish and cannot find contentment in .~~.- r, ·rl!-rqol?ifl. escapism. ~\\'~ ~ d 1 I cannot go through the ~t:'f ~€'! 1i,~. motions of life blindly,· ~· mechanically, ignoring my f'O~ MO~' \tlFO~I<\ATio.-.1 ll\LL choices. Each choice is a 1:~t?O-t61. --E£L1? significant definition of my f1l7 individuality and essence. 1 '!.ill...- ....... ··oY.>''\'\' .... \\\'~ ... I .J~~~.!.~c.·~~\~· ~·j;i·~·u·;;.;\';.;;\';.· __ ..... -- ain -constantly .aware ... of -Ill¥-. f l

<lloltrvrufeuzin NEWS ANALYSIS March 4, 1993, page A9 AIDS: A Personal View on a Universal Subject by Ve:r-onica Rogers DespHe my :petty t.v. Associate News Editor intexests, Union, or more ___ .:___:_:_.:.:....:....:.::..:.:....::..::==:.::..:..--precisely Davidson Ha:Ll, got a Union College has had its share of lectures on HIV and AIDS. In Vhe fall we had a week devoted to the promotion of AIDS awareness, and interspersed throughout the year we have had opportunities to learn about the disease through different mediums. One way that my floor, in particular, has involved ow.:selves is with the viewing of the program \Life Goes On\. Yeall, it's· a cheesy program, but for the past year or more they have had · an HIV positive story line on, and it has caught many people's attention. Most recenlly the character Jesse. played by Chad Lowe, has developed full blown AIDS, and ever since he got really sick, 3rd floor Davidson has had it's eyes glued to the television every Sunday night. Most television shows glorify or exaggerate different social issues that they so nobly try to represent. \Life Goes On\ through dramaHc scenes of Jesse collapsing from his illness, to the nightmares of being alone and dying, has given a more realistic glimpse and maybe even a taste of IIow scary it is to be a helpless victim of the AIDS disease. Maybe people are laughing at the fact that I am plugging a pretty mediocre television program (Matt Cecil), but in actuality this story line has been one of the few to ever make me feel the fear and loss that accompanies the death sentence of acquiring mv. very upclose and perS0nal view of the AIDS vin.Js when a discussion originaUy conceived by the RA's, and carried out by Sandy Mosher -of Health Services, took place last Mollday night in Davdison's loun~e. Tile discussion started out with an actor role playing group called SCIIT whidt is part of SCAM (Sch·~ne:ctady Community Against Ab11se and Neglect). These were young actors, mostly from high scho()l, who were aching out parts to depict differe11t social scenes where discus~ions about sex:u.al behavior ;~nd other precari.ous situations that people encounter were taking place. They- gave a positive message about being safe and inf()rmed. Mter the kids performance, a woman named Mary from Planned Parenthood, a woman named LaTanya from, t~e AIDS Coullcil of Schenectady, and a man named Ritchie:, wllo has AIDS, spoke to the crowd. I knew that Ritchie: was the person with HIV, out I was swprised to learn that he has had fnll l)lown AIDS since 1988. At first I felt symp;~thy~ and sorrow. It was sad tD tliink of this ~nan sitting in front .of me talkillg about his foreseeable death, He got AIDS from sll<>oting up drugs when he wa~ younger. His message w.as Ol\e · t11at . we can relate to. He SJI(lke about parental guidance and llow often parents, when children are young, give them sips <>f beer, and this, as casual and hann;Jess as it seems, aUows kids to think that it's acceptable to experiment because their parents let them experiment with their alcohol. Ritchie believes that permission of parents to try even a little bit. is almost like opening the door to years of confrontations and submissions because they once thought it was okay to experiment. College campuses alone thrive on the social life provided ~by the consumption of alcohol. Although people might say that they are not big drinkers, the ones who need to celebrate every time they do well in something, (which eventually could lead to the celebration of the completion of even one page of a paper, or the completion of one morning of classes), or the ones who think it's acceptable to throw-up every weekend because they've ha,d a tough· week, are the ones who are more susceptible to becoming a member of a high risk group. They are becoming more involved with the abuse of substances, and unknowingly they can make themselves vulnerable to getting involved in more activities that put them at risk. Ritchie was actually a bright spot in the sadness of AIDS, because he told us that he has learned to deal with the disease. Now his goal is to live as much as he can. It seems as though he has been one of the lucky ones. He has had full blown AIDS for five years, I know I have never heard of a patient lasting that long. He spoke of all the horrible times in the hospital Join the fight, against hunget: ~'< • f, Here's your weapon. Now each time you liSe the Card, you :help Our goal? lb help huy 1.000,000 meals• for Amerlca·s hungry: 1\nd you mn take part just by Ulhtg the American Express Card. buy a meal for so~ does. Tiley see to it that the font! is tlelil- ered to d1ose who need il. In fact. the) '>e a hungry perS()lJ' innhili2etl mnre tllan 5000 restaurants to I' 1111 \bu see. each time you charge a purchase I{) the Card lle~veen M;uch 15 and April 30, 1993. you help ruylorone meal. ·111e more }lUithases you make, no matter ho1v big or small, tl1e more 1neals you help provide. Its that siluple. Tb IEI:Lkc It all work, we·ve teameJ up with Share Our Strength, a n:ttionwide non-profit organi1at1on fightln\g to c1td hUII!\CI: I1Ley\re doing It iii some very resou1teful ways. For example. most restaurdilts bave extm f,loil at the end of lite n lf~lt, but they don\t always know what to do with it. tl1e fight u~ainsl hunger. here in the liS and around tho world. Sore mendler,now one of tl1emust valuable rea.;ons tn LISe tl1eCartl ;im'llimvhat ynu c;m G\t· but for what you gi1e. If yoe.fre II<JI currently a Cardmember. but would hke tu • :1pply, ple:ase c:tll us at H300- 365-AMEX. T11e American Express• Card. Whet•Y<m reach for it, you reach out to help others. •Amrrlcan l~pnss 'i>\lll d(m3.tc S (lll per trnnsa:ctlon. up to $90,000, a. ntaJCimurn of l.()[lt):HIIOt flleil$ ll(lnUioraJgnot dt'dutlihle for lnoonlt ta' purposes - when his mom couldn't even recognize him. Ritchie's speech made a crack in the shell that surrounds Uni()n College. For the few students who were watching Ritchie talk about his life and his inevitable death, the feeling of being young and immortal slowly slipped away. Ritchie said that he has had HIV since 1979 and that he didn't know he had it until 1987. For more then seven years he was walking around with it. According to everyone else, he looked healthy, and seemed healthy. Friends o{ his who were doing drugs as well starting getting sick, so Ritchie thought he sho11ld go get tested. Imagine yourself waiting for the results of an AIDS test. They usually come in about two weeks, two weeks of waiting to see if one night of pleasure is going to change and probably end your life. Once you get it, that's it. There is no turning back. Scary. Ritchie was not trying to give a sex safe lecture. He was trying to give a realistic view of what the risks are, and why those risks should be avoided. He is making the best of his situation tho11gh. He is engaged to be married to a woman he has been with for two years. R-itchie told us that he and his fiance practice extremely safe sex, and they do kiss. She goes in for testing every six months, but has always been healthy. Ritchie said that they plan to travel as much as they can so they can enjoy themselves, because as Ritchie impressed upon us, that's what life is for. Our generation, even though at a higher risk than once. believed, is now responsible to teach the next generation about the realities of AIDS. There are many little kids who are sick from tbeir parents, but there are so many more who are waiting to enter adolescence. By entering this part of their life they are opening themselves up to the risks that we already face. If we can prevent them from entering the teen years ignorant and naive, then maybe we can slow HIV and AlDS down. The statistics now are scary. 1 out of every 300 people have HIV. So according to these numbers. about seven people are carrying this virus at Union College. There are clinics around Schenectady that provide AIDS testing either anonymously or with confidentiality. If students feel that they have been involved in risky situations, then it's @etter to go get a test than to possibly put other people at risk. It is a scary subject. We all know tiJat life is short, and that some day we will die, but to speed 11p the process, to almost blindly thrust yourself into a world of sickness, is all too scary. Ritchie's message was more of hope than of despair, but it definitely wasn't a fairy tale. F()r Chad Lowe on \Life Goes On\ after filming he can go horne and forget about his character Jesse. Ritchie can't walk away from a set, or get out of character, for he must live with the disease the has infected his body. Have A Nice Break! J

Concordiensis 50 Years Ago SUB-FRESHMAN WEEK-END ISSUE FINAL EXAM SCHEDULE PAGE 5 PICTORIAL SECTION PAGE 4' The Student Newspaper of Union College Vol. LXVI. No. 23 Pl•ones: 3 F:dltm1nl 4·0133 ;j.Press l·liH SCHENECTADY, N. y;, FRIDAY, MARCH n. 1943 ~~======~~=-~,======================== Price 5c College Wekomes lfavy looks at Hale House 100 Sub-Freshmen In 3-Day Program Fraternity Sin9, Cinema, Intramural Bouts Feature Entert;nment ior Guests Nearly .10() prospective college students 'Are ·being welcomed to the co!iege campus tonight as Union's annua.i Sub- Freshman Week-end gel.s under way with din- ners at the various fraternities. Although the limitations em tra- vel and the probable reduction in civilian enrollment have cut the numbers of tile guests considerably, this Sub-Freshman Week-end offers <Jne of the most e:omplete pfograoos of entertainment ever arranged for the high school and preparatory school m~n. Mostly June Entrants In contrast\ to the usual situation at the spring week-end for sub· freshmen, virtually all of the guests are expected to enter some college In June, rather than Sep- tember. About half of the men were in- vited by the members of the vari- ous fraternities, while the rest have answered direc.t invitations !rom the college admissions office, Besides the out-of-town meu who· have to be invited. a general invi- tation has been e><tended to stu· dents In the Schenectady higb schools to attend the various func- tions during the week-end. Following the dinners at the fra- ternities tonight, most of the sub- freshmen are expected to attend the Interfraternity Sing, an inne>- Vation on the program for the week-end. There they will be wei· corned by President Fox and w1ll have an opportunity to witness \\hat Is expected to be the college's first Interfraternity Sing in which a : houses compete. Others of the Plctrned aho\e are members or ·tJte Navy Inspectlou Commission which visited ·tlle <l2mpus early ·t:ltls week as they looked over .the dining f~ilities in Hale House. Left to right are Dr. Charles T. Male, comptr<lller ad the eoUege, •Lieutenant-Commander Gamson President Fox,.Iiieutenant Trainer. ud IJeutenant-Conunander Wise. Also a member ·•f tile Inspecting gr<>up, but not in the picture, was Dr. Taylor, a ~avy ,physician. College I.s Inspected By Naval Board, ToAnnounee Findings Within Month Five representativ-es o! th.eS•>-------------- United States Navy Lnspected tne 1 col:ege facilities -tllis week to de-' c.d that it was quite <>bvlous that termine their JlDSsible usefulness· some of the nine fraternities visit- as a training sit-. for prospective ed had Profited by advance warn- navy engineers. for basic navy lng of the visit, and that it was training, and fm melt studying to equally obvious that some of them be navy doctors. Altltough the in- had not. spection group ~e>uld :make no an- T·he board saw \In Which We nouncement of their flndings, Pres- So:rve\ in Schenectady on Monday !dent Fox said Wednesday that he nlght. Two of ~lle men stayed with expected to hear frorn the Navy President Fox 'Rnd two stayed at within a month. Psi Upsilon. They accounted them- selves well-pleased with the food at Hale House. The group consisted <f lour high- ranking officers and cne yeoman, 1 Former Ambassador Grew Is Named . As Hono:rary Chancellor For 1943·-44 LeB lane To, ;Qffer Recital Next Week ·· Recent Envoy To Japan W:ill Succ:eed Willki.e As Speaker At Commencement Noted Ca!ladiam Violinist Appears in Third Concert Of Scholarship :Fund Series Arthur LeBlanc, \tbe Canadian national violinist\ will ·be the fea- tured performer next Friday eve- ning at the third conce~t in the current series for the benefit of the scholarship fund, Mrs. Anthony ·Hoadley, chairman of the ticket slrles for the series, said this week. Mrs. Hoadley said that student , . tickets, priced at 75 cents each, were available at the president's office in the Administrative B)lild- ing. The concert Is scbecluled to be- gin at 8:00 p. m. in tile Memorial Chapel. Mrs. Hoadley alro pointed ou' that students who are jnterested m becoming ushers for this concert should get in touch -with Sidney Smith, head usher at the college l!brary. Joseph C. Grew, former 1Inited Stakes Ambassad()r to Japall, 'Will be the Honorary Chancellor for Union College next year and the principal speaker at the eommencement exer- cises <ln April 26, President Fox announced this week. --------------1:• The former ambassador s11cceeds U Ch Wendell L. Willkie in th.is position. :nonClrary anceJior He will be awarded an honorary degree, the exact nature of which 'has not yet been disclosed. Mr _ Grew already holds an honorary qegree as Doctor of Laws from the George Washington !Jniverslt)7 awarded in 1926. He receiv-ed his ·Bachelor o! Arts degree from Har- vard In 191>2. Mr. Grew's talk will be the mai11 lj:~m.~on· ~e program for the 148tb ~i!hl!!il·l:kommencement exercise•, · wli.ich' will Bee the comparatively few remaining members of the class of 1943 graduated -from the college. Arthur LeBlanc earned his title as \the Canadian natiooal violinist\ after an extended ser-ies of per- formances of high q~~.<~iity in his native land. As the son of a violin-' ____ J_o_S_EP_H __ c_._G_R_E_W ___ _ When It became the lot of .Toseplt C. Grew to be the American repre- sentative in Japan when tllat coun- try declared war on us in· 1941, it was not the first time that he had been in su~h a situation. In 1917 lle was the counselor and charge d'affaire at the United States Em- bassy in Vienna when th.!s country broke off relations the.re as she entered the war against Germany. This time however it was the Evell ... s Scheduled Japanese that were doing the •• ,. 1 • T breaking. Ambassador Grew had Fo . r· Sub-Freshman to wait six long months ·befoxe he could reach home to tell the Amerl- maker, Mr. LeBlanc began his musical career early in life. He received much of his early train- ing in the United Stat.es, studying at the New England Conservatory of music In Boston. Later he con- tinued his studies in Paris. Mr. LeBlanc has cooopleted sev- eral tours of the United States and Canada and is now engaged in wee l·•end L•·sted can people o:f those last months be. 11. fore war and to give tl:tetn a pic· _ ture of the Japanese as they would 'The Concordiensis presents here- appear as a.n enemy. with the -.v-ents scheduled for this Begall Car<'<'r in 1904 Faculty Flays Fijis in Bridge Battle !ntellect Conquers in Uneven Test There are many available positions • In: :Members of the t:nion College!~·~---------------- 1 faculty. a faculty which often ~veeps I close shave during the course of , b1tter tears over the propensitY. of the evening. [ncidentally, the fac- tr:e student body for employmg ulty came -with 13 men, so \Zabby'' t1me Intended for study m the gentle played for the :Phi Gams. art of contr·act bno~e. proved rues- . day night without much difficulty All thiS\ endeavor apparently was that at least one par·t of the student played pwely for the hono 1' of the body is sadlr out of pracuce as they faculty bridge tea~. ar:d. a::pparent- took membet·s of thP Phi Gamma! ly, 18;rge~y :f()r their enJoymoent, too, Del:a fraternity team into camp I consldermg: the sco:e·. Howeve_r, by ar~· f 13 810 · t I one note of commercialism crept m a m ..,m 0 • pom 5 · when Eg·gy- Bacon. in the spirit of Fa('ult~· Pairs \\'in at Fiv<> Tables. old Canfield h•rnself, offered to bet The rathu prPposterou; score i cigars of undisclosed quaiRty that wa..~ piled up at ~·ix tables of rub- the faculty at any given table would bet bridge. and the professorial wilL by 10,000 points. Only tlle head touch was supreme in all but one. table woulcl take the bets. apparent- At that table. the Phi Gams won ly because only a few Ph.i Gams by 80 points. The total faculty smoke cigars. In this res]pect. at maq:-in of victory at the other five' least. the students came O·Ut em top, tables was 13,89() points. because tlley kept their margin of Bill \Who. is. this- guy_ Culbert- defeat doV/31 to 5.450 pointS!. ~<m \\ Ketz. who reported the de- Chi Psis To B>e Next Victims bade. admitted that this one table Next week the faculty talle their of 'tudents did \uccPed in causing degrees and tll.eir Blackwo-od con- difficulty, however. That team. ventions i.nt() the den of t)Ie Chip- cumpDsPd of Wally Macmillan '43, E\is who are- rl?pouted to have a pass- and Dick Lang '41l. built up th~ir I ing knowledge of the gentle art of !~ad. and then. according to Ketz. the Vande!'bilt openings. 'Che fac- pet·:cbted m playing- so slowly that! ulty team Vlill probably include at thPI e was no chanc<· :o work enough· that t1me. 11:s j( did on 'Cuesday, end plays and delayed squeezes and Dean Gads. Glls Fox, Hal Wittner, such to turn the tables the other Franklin C'hillrud, Ben Wltitaker, way. Sumner C~ tz1n. Charlie Erockner, V\'ally Macmillan. reporting for Dave Mors-E; Ernie Dale. ''Eggy\ Ph1 Gamma Delta. indicated last I Bacon. Al Giampa, \Zabby\, and. of night that the Phi Gams had given i course, Bllt Retz. Wed sar they the Dean Gal\is-Bill Ketz team a 1 were deci<iedly vulnerable. I as a re>'ult of Bob Lowe gettin~ . Si~ Phis Isolated I scar_let fev-er. Lowe_ is r_cported 1 \':::tl restmg co1nfortably 111 Ell1~ Hos- : By Scarlet Fever ·:~ita! :-v-hu~ the .'·est. of the fraternity. I 1 ; Is domg lllcew1se m the Slg Place.: C f B b L Their sola~e fmm the st1·ain of' ' ase 0 c owe, college affaii'S appears shorthved: however. fo1· the quarantine will i 12 Catch German Measles 1 be lifted at the end of this week; As College Administration ° 1 ' early next week. In th~ mean- • • time, rumoa·s- state that tl:ie Sigs Moves to Prevent Ep1dem1c · are dmwing- straws to see lliho will . , \ , . succumb to the disease next. · No. the S1gma Ph1s are not h1gn . Dr. G. Marcellus Clowe, colleg-e I I hatti_ng\ the rest of the col~ege com- physician. annD\unced that the 12 n;umty even though their recc:nt cases of Ge rma.n measles r-eported 1 Lli.'appeat ance ft·om campus _life' did not constitute an epidemic and m1ght lead to such a conclusiOn.· that all st..,ps which havE been 1ntl ne1ther are they attemptin:r to taken were ]Jurely protective meas- Jmltate the Siege of Leningrad by Ul'eb'. banica.dmg themselves in the Slg p \' h 1 .- Place: their strange antics are ?-tponmnent of t e ntl amural mel·ely the re~·ult of a scarlet fever boxm~ and 'Wrestling bouts waoJ the quamntine placed upon them by only result of the dozen ca~e~ . of the Schenectad Board of Health. measles. S~Fme gym class _ac:hvitles ' Y were curta1lecl as a protectxve me·as- . RPpor·ts from the Sig5 camp last ure but it .is hoped that everything-. ' nq~ht indicated that they we1e en- including thE intramural bp\Jits, will t .t , , .}9 r 111 ~ Y'!e .~ap~j~ll;, .t,4w.;~ ~.:'re,-fi:.i¥~.A:·}!Jlo • .JlNI~?~lh?l.l!lpo~ • .i~, <~:-f~w !lays._ .. *NEWS *FEATURES *LAYOUT *SCIENCE *PHOIDGRAPHY These positions to section editor. *COMMENTARIES *SPORTS *ARTS *ADVERTISING *BUSINESS range from staff writer THERE IS A POSITION FORU! Help resto.r·e Concordy with tradition Join a newspaper Gain valuable work experience Represent Have the student body a good time Stop by the office on Friday, from 3:00 March 5th - call or for David 5:00 p.m* at X4208 information

<UJJltrlir hi.eusia CAMPUS NEWS March 4, 1993, page All 'PER!iDI\IAL!ji Hola Mis Amigos y Amigas Greetings from Mex.ico. I cannot wait to see all of you. Good luck on exams - Bridget - get psyched for Spring Break! Love, Sue. Hola Delta Gamma Sisters and Pledges! I am ready for a fun filled spring term. Good luck on exams · See you soon! ITB from Me:.;tico, Sue Laing Psi U, Looks like you have some new pledge .pins. Miss You, Miss Piggy LOST - Gold chain with charm. If found please call X4169. To Chris. I love a man who can hang a good snowflake! Jewsih NYC Biornajor Want Some Ice Cream? Ned, What will you ever do with all this free time? Wendy, Have a· great time Friday night! Call me at home on Saturday with details. Seth brown, Love, Me Have a very happy Birhtday. Rachael, Meredith, Jen, and Shelley, We need full service! -Ouch I am so psyched to have an extra 30 hours per week of time to do absolutely nothing now that my thesis is due and I will already have failed by next term. Spaz and K welch. Thanks for the great birthday party. Next time lets wear dresses. -Pyle Deb, Good Luck with your new endeavor. I think you will need it. Love, Me To one special Delta Darling, \Ms. 1-can't-believe-1-didn't- get -the-4-points\. who did you really want to rent a room with at the Holiday Inn during the blackout? Love, the 2 Benedict Arnolds To some Delta Darlings, DU.D- alittle sucking goes • a long way. Ther's proof! Ms. · President- hjow did you get so : good at playing with fire • anyway, Love, the 2 Benedict Arnolds . Port, Happy three and a half! Looking forward to more! Love always, \B\ Panama City - 15 days sun. shotgun, and freedem. I can hardly wait - Ris ,. . ToCara. I want your body. ToCara, Get ready for the sweet smell of Florida .at dusk. ADDP 1'\101\1 Adoption-. Loving Mo~ (a school teacher)· professiOnal devoted Dad yearn to share our lives with· newborn. Family picnics, home baked cookies but most importantly a warm and loving family await your infant. Expenses paid. Call Joan and Bob collect so we can talk. (212) 772-9254 LOWEST PRICES ON CAMPUS -GUARANTEED! !Ylar 4 · Thursday 8:00 PM PAD Theatre Production: \The Tempest\ JYiar 5 - Friday 8:00 PM PAD Theatre Production: 4.00 PM -8:00 Chet's: Happy Medium <!:00 PM & 10:0~ CCAUD: Filrn-'DnACULA' \Th Tem,pest\ Y :00 PM Chct's: AshJowa anJ Sealfon Mar 6 · Saturday 9 ~ i{))((J) !Pl'ct1! lC:l.t,~ttQ c ~ MI.!illl' dlii S:OO PM & tO:OO CCAUO: Film-'DRi\CULA' 8:00 PM PAD Theatre \Tile Tempest\ Production: lGl u· ;m :§ JP> .ru. u· Q )' 9 :·00 PH Old Chapel: '!'he AulhoriLy l\'la1· 7 - Sun day 800 PM & 10:00 CCAUD: Filrn-'DRACULA' \Ved\10 3:00 PM Me1n. Chap.: Enterson String Quar-tet Mar 8 - Munday 8:00 P.M & 10:00 CCAUD: Filrn-\OHACULA' Mar 9 . Tuesday 8:00 PM Fero House: Coffeehouse ------------------------------------------------------------------------ !\Jar l 0 - W cdncsday 8:00 PM & 1 0 CC Aud: Film Caddyshack Mar 11 - ThursdaJ' !Ha1· 12 - Friday Classes End 5:00 IJNI -7:00 l)M CI-IE'f'S: 'fhesis Co111pletion Party To itlclude your evenl5, attend Programming mceti11gs Mo11da ys@ 4.30, CC4l0. ll1is calundar IS current as of 3t2,9J SURVIVAL GUIDE DETAILS: Fast Times at Ridgemont High Wed. movie:CCAud.8:00&10:00pm. Sean Penn, Phoelle Cates, Jennifer Jason Leigh. \Hey Man, what's your prol5Iem ?\ Dracula Weekend movie: CCAud. 8:00 & 10:00pm March 6-8. Francis Ford Coppo~a (The Godfather, · Apoc()lypse Now) does it again. Spooky! Union College Chamber Orchestra Sunday, Feb. 28, 3:00pm, Memorial ChapeL rerforming Arts Dept. presents a Winter Concert IIlith Guest Conductor Emory Waters. Coffeehouse at Fero T\lles. 2, 8:00pm -12:00midnight: Home-made coffee and acoustic entertainment at 10:00 with lJnion's own Jesse Ashdown and Seth Sealfon. The Tempest The Performing Arts Department presents The Tempel\t Based On Shakespeare's Drama of Magic And Revenge. February 27, Mar. 2- 6, 1993 8:00 r ' FERO HOUSE (formerly Beta-Maxcy House) First Floor Meeting Rooms are ne>w available for use by your student groups Please contact the Student Activities Office x6118, CCI08 to make arrangements and, for the rest of lliis tenn, WE'LL PROVIDE THE COFFEE! PLUS: Every Tuesday night: COFFEEHOUSE Every Saturday night: GAME NIGHT Also ... last week of class and thru finals we'll be open for quiet study and FIIEE .COFFEE, TEA, HOT CHOCOLATE from 11-4 Sl:JNDAY, MARCH 7, 3:00PM MEMORIAL CHAPEL: EMERSON STRING QUARTET CLUB MEETINGS ' PM Not! Memorial theater. We Are Such Stuff As Dreams Are Made On Momday, March I Yog;n Oass, 4:15-6:00pm Cc::ID8 CANCUN FLORIDA • ,.. •• Cltr . ...,... ...... • 11'.81 .._ Travel Freel ~~ Organize a ~.aYJCU_ group! 1-800-648-4849 Earn $500 - $1 000 weekly stuffing envelopes. For details - RUSH $1 .00 with SASE to: GROUP FIVE 57 Greentree Drive, Suite 30.7 . Dover, DE 1990 1 Chet's: -Ashdown & Sealfon Friday, March 5. 9:00pm at Chet's. Jessie and Seth . return to close out this exciting season at Chet's. Don'tforget 10¢wingsonMondays,and The Happy Medium every Friday from 4- 8pm. Mardi Gras in March! Saturday, March 6, 9:00pm-Midnight at Chet's! . TheAutharity . Saturday, March 6, 9:00pm. Memorial Ch~pel. 'Concert Committee presents the last of ~e Wmter Concert Series. SPEAKERS: Wednesday, March 3, lO:OOam, CCAUD. Fresh· man Preceptorial Speaker: Professor RalphAlpher, 111ajor contributor to the Big Bang Theory and rec:epient of the Henry Draper Medal of the Na- lional Academy ()( Sciences. T11esday, March 2, 6:30pm, CC406. ~ewman Ou,b presents Ft. Dick Leskovas, Chaplam, St. Clare.s Hbspitai on \Life Detennina tion and Other Med 1- ·callssues.\ Plzf<l will be served. ,< . . ' Student Activities Programming Board, 4:30pm CC410 ALAS, 6:00pm, Bronner House Student Forum Meeting, 6:30pm CC409 MoWJtebanks Meeting, 6:30pm, Nott Memorial Th\ater WRIUC Executive Commillee Meeting. 7:30-8:30pm CC205 Tul'9day. March 2 Nc~~o~rrum Gub, 6:00pm, COW6 BiJilce Stucly, 8:00pm CC203 Pf1Uc:Jll1athean Society, 8:00pm Hale House Lower Lom~ge Canwpus Action Lmtch Meeting. 11:30am CC203 WedlneSday. March3 Gemnan Oub, 12:15-t:lSprn CC203 NSB E, 8:30-IO:OOpm CC409 1hursdaycMarch4 Yoga Class, 8:00am-9:45am COOS hrve51ment Qub, 12:15-1:30plit CC203 Cof!Eeh<>tJSe Committee, 3:30pm CC41 0 Chet;s Committee, 4:00pm CGIO Planming Committee for KldsOlyrnplcs, 7:00pm CC409 Fr.iday, March 5 PnUomatlH!an Society, 6:15pm-12 midnile Hale House Lower Lounge lntcrvarsity Quistian Fellowsltlp, 7:00pm CC409 To List you.r chtb meetings here, contact the Student Activi· tics Office at 371J-6118.

.I ' yOU SHOlJLD HAVE \THOUGHT Of 1HAT BEfORE Wf. LEf~/ .BLOOM ·coUNTY· by Berke· Breathed Rubes® Creators Syndicate, Inc. \3· 2.5\ th 1993 Leigh Rubin! (/&fl./ 7i/RN!f5 / ... rve- eeeN RJKC~/7 1lJ li/IT ((1/?Nif'\ 1lJ 5fJRV/Ve- / ... By Leigh Rubtn 0 M~ ~OR\) IN HEA~ fO~I~& M~ fOR. -n-us 1/ JL-e Sr~ 1 AW\ A.&otJT 11l COM tJ', 1 T.

., 'WRITE FOR YOUR PAPElt. . MANY· POSITIONS AR:E • OPEN FOR SPRING TERM. : March 4, 1993 0J.llll.Cllf DiCltS i.z by Aaron MOONBOOT LOVER ROCKED by Eric Budke Arts Writer Thank you to all attending Moonboot Lover. There was a far greater tum out than OSQ but still not up to what we'd like. Come on people~ it was afreeshow! The band made quite an impression on me, for the ftrSt time seeing or hearing them. They did a couple covers, \Proud Mary\ and maybe \Missing You\ (I have yet to listen again) but always putting their own touches on them. it was a little stllrtling to see a flute/sax player in the band but he played the instruments amply well. I never really got all of the band member's names except for Peter Prince who was the lead guitarist so it's hard to get into specifics. I assume it was a special siJow for Peter as his mother was there. The band used to go by the name The Groove which they tried to drill into our heads was not the cunent name. They are ... 901ni11g out with a new album sooa from which tlley played a couple of songs. They were basiclllly a really good rock bmd and the sax adds a nice touch adding some hannony to wltat would have been a three man band. They grooved from be~i11ning to end,even though they were a little hesitant to go out. They seemed to have wanted MORE people to come in before they started, but hey this is Union College and they can~t ltave anything. If you can try to }lick up a ta:pe of these guys. I at some point will have a stereo mix of it if you hearts desire. This week, ·in the last of our wiEter shows, the Authority will be playing in the Old chapel ( a more intimate experience) they also come to us from NYC and the New School located there. For those of you who may have gone to Lallapal~oza this summer they were on the small stage. CtUTently they are on their way home from a national tour. As I write this they are somewhere in Colorado. this band will not disapl)<}int. They have a ton of musical influences to pull from and having just gotten a tape in of theirs from Rochester they smoke in concert. so come on out. There won't be much else to do on campus and it starts early enough where it won't take up your whole saturday night, only nine. I believe it's currently scheduled to start at 9pm and will cost 2 bucks. And don't worry about a blackout, we'll have generators there to p<>wer the whole show. Gere is Jacked in Sommers by by Thor Bernamder Arts Staff For those of us who enjoyed Gone with the wind. there is now Sommersby, the tale of Laurel Sommersby, a staunch woma11 of the South, and her struggle to love her husband, despite the hazards. of the reconstruction in the post Civil-war era. There are, however, some intricate twists to the plot, not the least of which is the actual identity of her returning husband. In the climactic scene, Laurel is asked before judge and jury to inform the court as to the true identity of the man with whom she shares her l)ed. The ensuing scene is a powerful tribute to the South, to the law, and to a strangely manipulatedt but end~aring love between the lea~g characters. S~mrnersby stars Richard G~rl' as Jack Sommersby, (or H()rllce Townsend· you make the call), and Jodie Foster as his pursed-lipped wife~ Laurel. Gere is dynamic, charming and yet very ominous as the returning Jack. . He is a chan;ged man after the war, and trudges home after serving time in a Onion prison in Utica. a~re plays him flawlessly' in fact,. I haven't been so impressed with his ability since An Officer and a Gent-leman. Gere deserves rnucll more credit than he receives. Versatile. powerful. handsome· yet frayed~ subtle and yet overwhelming, he is one of the most formidable screell actors of the last thirty years. Take his resume- An Officer and a Gentleman, American Giggolo,. Internal Affairs, even Pretty Woman, (despite the cheesy Julia Roberts), and you cannot disagree that he has talent. Sommersby is the next step in a brilliant career. Having been a fan of Jodie Foster's since Taxi Driver, I was pleased to see her pull this very difficult role off, and do it with grace. Her resume is no less impressive, including, Taxi Driver. Stealing Home. and The Silence of the Lambs. The combination of these two was monumental, a terrific casting job which led to a · terrific movie. It's a. tearjerker with a purpose, touching on the effects of racism, sexism, · class struggle and the law. Don't miss this one. A-. IN THIS SECTION: FEATURES- page B3 & B4 SPORTS -page 86, B7, .& BS Section B TEMPEST REVIEW by Nicole Goldin Co-Arts Editor This past Saturday night~ I was lucky enough to get a waiting-list ticket to the nearly sold out, opening nig.ht perfoJ;mance of The Tempest. Although there were parts that I didn't understand, (especially those lines uttered in a foreign langtJage), I enjoyed the production. My first piece of advice to anyone going to see the play is to read the brief plot summary in the program before it begins. I foolishly waited to intermission to read it and it would have given me much insight as to what was going on. The play, while based on the Shake&peaFean tale of revenge, has been updated to a post- modem era. The set, designed by Charles Steckler, and described as \A post-colonial island amid the debris of technology and popular culture,\ is complete with televisions, computer and a Volkswagen Bug. In Shakespeare's drama, Prospera (played here by Thor Benander), and his daughter Miraada (Stacey Cervellino) have come to inhabit an island and Prospero proceeds to cast magic spells over those already living there. The audience in The Nott sees this power as Prospero clicks the T.V. remote control, a staiJle of modern day culture. Fran DeAngelo, and Lisandra Ramos are very good as Caliban, the humble slave to Prospera and Ariel the sassy servant spirit. For those who like comedy, when Kristy Holbrook and Walter Soule came on sta~e playing the drunken servants to King Alonso (Bryan Savage), the audience could not help but laugh. The two play off each other very well and are humorous in mocking poor naive Caliban. The Tempest has something for the romantic as well. Charles Agar and Stacey Cervellino are noteworthy as Ferdinand and Miranda, innocent young lovers. All in all, I thoroughly enjoyed the production and I strongly encourage anyone who has not yet seen it, to get a ticket for one of the remaining performances. I don't think you will be let down. My congratulations to the cast and crew of The Tempest on a job very well done. One final note, altho~gh I didn't sample any myse1 f, r heard the chocolate chip cookies sold during intermission are rather yummy. UNION ARTS CALENDAR THURSDAY, MARCH 4 8:00pm The Tempest, Nott Memorial FRIDAY, MARCH 5 8:OOpm The Tempest, Nott Memorial · 8 & lOpm 1 'Dracula 11 ,. CC Aud. 9:00pm Ashdown and Sealfon, Chet's SATURDAY, MARCH 6 8:00pm The Tempest, Nott Memorial 8 & lOpm \Dracula\, CC Aud. 9:00 Mardis Gras Party, Chet's 9:00 The Authority, Memorial Chapel SUNDAY, MARCH 7 3:00pm Emerson String Quartet,MemoriaJ Chapel_ 8. & lOpm \:Pracul.a ••, C(; ·Aud. • .MONDAY, MARCH 8 . 8 & 10pm \Dracula\, CC Aud TU'ESDA Y, MARCH 9 8:00pm Coffeehouse with Ashdown & Sealfon, Fero House WEDNESDAY, MARCH 10 ·g & lOpm 11 Caddyshack\ CC Aud .. · FRIDAY, MARCH 11 •. s:-7pm Thesis Completion Party, C~et's ...

March 4, 1993, page B2 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Ol!lu.c.or:Uittrsis ARIES (March 21-April 19) Reach out for what it is you want - you're entitled to it. Refuse to let another walk all over :you. You may need to speJI it out for another this week. By respon- sible action and C'Omtnunication, you make it happen. TAURUS (April 20-May 20) Get in close this week wb..ile you still can. Events may ltave you tilting at windmills, or you could just split town. In any case,.the rule ~fthumb this week is make hay while you can. You will be a force to be dealt with this weekend. GEMINI (May21..-June 20}0thers carry the ball this week. Expect a close encounter which can be about money, power or love. Expect a partner to play into your plans in a most interesting • manner. Do claim your power and make the choices that you want to make. CANCER (June 21-July 22) Build on existing frameworks and ,know what it is youneed and want. Get as much work done as fast as you can. Distraction appears big time and you are still able to milke time for it, but only if you've bee11 staying up to date everywhere else. LEO (July 23-Au.gtlst 22) You enter the week far from ettthusiastic about work. Trust you to find some distrac- tion from the old \9 to 5.\ Work could prove interesting, if ,jt involves some socializing, and veryinteresting if you carry it into the weekend. VIRGO (August 23-September 22) Understanding is ltalf the game this week. Your m~ e playful, energetic, wild and woolJy side comes out, but be prepared to pay the piper. You need to understand more a bout what is ex- pected of you, especially at work. LIBRA (September 23-0ctober 22) Re'.'erse direction and be clear as to w,hat you feel is necessary. Initiate lon:g overdue conversati01ns at work, witll loved ones, and with those who pia,- into your day-to-day life. Settle in to s;tronger values and choices. Count on luxuriating and enjoying yourself this. weekend. SCORPIO (October 23-November 21) Get to the bottom of a problem and loo~ at what motivates you to be so pos.sessive. Your understanding is eno:rmous, and you are likely to reverse a situation by changing your atiitude. Cooomunicatiens are hot this week. SAGIITARIUS (November 22- Decelllber 21) Make the most of your glo'Wing, happy and wonderful per- son;ality. Your attitude cbanges con- siderably because of what is going on. G<l for what you really, really desire and need toward the weekend. n1en expect a .busy few days. CAPRICORN (December 22- January 19) Don't be bewildered by whilt is going on, and please try to tmderstand another's weird behavior. Yoll feel better by the weekend and reall¥ can hardly remember what went on earlier. Honor who you are, and stanod finnly next to an idea or desire. A~UARIUS (January 20-February 18) You are on a roll this week, and things really perk for you. Count on man:y a mood change, some moping arou.nd, and finally seeing a situation foriWihat it really is. Whatever you say or do works. P.I:SCE§ (February 19·-March 20) Handle an Kimportant\ person with kid glovoes. You may feel as if you have done and seen enough. Answer to another and gain a better under- standing of who they are. Be careful abowt a too-carefree attitude midweek. You may pay for it this wee~end. WJR[JfJE JFOJR AJRT§ ' • ' ''. ' ' ', • ~ t • I ' • ; .. ., WRUC'S TOP 89.7 l. Sting- If I Ever Lose My Faith In You (A&M) 2.Nine Inch Nails-Broken (Interscope Atlantic) 3.Stone Temple Pilots-Core (Atlantic) 4.King Missile-Happy Hour (Atlantic) 5.Dinosaur Jr.-Where You Been (Sire-Warner Bros.) 6.Jesus Jones-Perverse ( S B K) 7 .Jellyfish -Spilt Milk (Charisma) 8.Lemonheads-It's A Shame About Ray (Atlantic) 8.97.Da Da-Puzzle (I.R.S.) ~··=== LOCAL ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT CALENDAR THURSDAY MARICH 4TH 2:00 PM :Lecture on \Sargent 12:00 noon \Women in the Homer and the Modern Art of Arts\ Film series featured at Watercolor.\ The Hyde · the New York State Museum in Collections, Glen Falls. · Albany presents \Lyn Lifshin: Not Made of Glass\ SUNDAY MARCH 7TH 7:00 PM \Film Sense/Art Sense'~ 3:00 PM Guest Lecture by Film. wi 11 feature '\ Giorgio n e' s Historian Pearl Bowser. Recital Tempest: The first, Romantic Hail, University at Albany Picture\ \Trevi\ ' and \A uptown campus. Window to Heaven.\ The Hyde 8:00 PM \At the Edge\ at the CollectionS! Glens Falls. Egg. 8:00 PM \The Big Band Salute 3:00 PM Stephen Kostyniak- to Glen Miller\ at Proctor's French horn player features Th t . \Rodeo\ liConcerto for Horn\ ea ure. , . . and \Be Symphony FRIDAY MARCH 5TH No. 7\ The Schenectady 7:30 PM Film Screening: \To Symphony Orchestra. Sleep \Vith Anger.\ Page Hall, . . u ni versi ty at Albany TUESDAY MARCH 9TH downtown campus 8:00 PM 1 'Sbirley Valentine\ 5:30 PM \Century Broadsides\ Capital Repertory Company, an exhibit of broadsides, Albany. posters and advertising handbills. Albany Institute of 'WEDNESDAY MARCH History & Art. lOTH 4:00 PM Poets Martin Nakell SATURDAY MARCH 6TH and Dennis Phillips read from 3:00 & 7:30 PM African Women their works. Humanities 354 In Film Festival, Screenings:' on the University at Albany's Films by and about Women of uptown campus. Cotor. Recital Hall, University at Albany. THURSDAY MARCH 11TH 8:00PM \At the Edge of the,S:OO PM \Hollywood to World\ presented by the Ellen: Mayfair\ with the Pasadena Sin()poli Dance Company. The Roof Orchestra and Dancers of Egg. London. Proctor's Theatre. • • t:Z:@>m.~m~r • •e:::s===J CHET 1 S CoRNER SENIOR THESIS PARTY ... COMING TO CHE1'S. That's right, 93 and Beyond is sponsoring a SENIOR THESIS PARTY at CHET'S next Friday (March l2th) ... the last day of classes. Hand in your thesis and come join the fun! Free food will be served. That will be CHET'S only open night lOth week. For this week... Friday March 5th CHET'S will be hosting Ashdown and Sealfon. Prec.eding this ba,nd, STUDENTS AND FACULTY are invited to the final HAPPY MEDIUM of winter term. Of course, free food will be served. Also this weekend, CHETS is hosting a MARDJ GRAS PARTY. That will be this Saturday. March 6th. Mixed and special drinks will be availabJe. We hope that everyone is looking forward to a new and improved CHETS come spring term. Watch for many SENIOR event nights! CHETS .bought a 50\ TV that will be coming spring tenn as well as CHET'S curtain and new furniture. CHET'S meetings are held Thursdays in room CC 409 at 4pm .•. suggestions welcome! You can also contact Lee Popper or Jonathan Winch to book any kind of event at CHET'S.

FEATURES You Speak English? ---A- 1 -.-.--L-. -,--__._ to say about tnis word except the bstener sup)lOsed to know Can F .,us Tue.•s that in its true form it is whatitmeans? Another one of eatures rrnter . I all d I I was sitting in class the other day and my professor commented on how much the English language has changed. I've been thinking about this for a few days, and have come to: the realization· that the way America's Y()uth speaks is utterly ridiculous. Some of the sayings that are \in\ are just unbelievably bizarre. I've never really noticed how stupid we sound until I started listening. 1) Wicked - What exactly does this mean7 People are always saying, \oh yeah that is . wicked cool, o:r he's wicked nice, or this West food is wicked good .(Yeah, OK).\ But, to me that seems like a contradiction. How can someone be \·wicked\ and \nice\ at the §arne time? I understand that it means \he is very nice\ but when did very come to mean wicked? Who thought of this anyway? Now I understand why my parents look at me as if f!J1l crazy when I say stuff lik~ that. extremely derogatory. mypetpeeves. re y ont However it has taken on a new kno.,., what Yeah, whatever , . . variety of meanings and with. a sucasttc tone . 1s sometimes is even used as a supptOsed to mean l>ut I use lt a greeting (hey, you hol)• lot. 4) Scammer- I guess this can 7) NQw rm going to address be considered the male the most hated misuse of an counterpart of ho. \I often say Englis.h word .to have ever about certain guys \he is such existltd. A misuse that makes a scammer.\ I really never any .a.d11lt cringe when heard thought there was such a word two !Dr tlrree times in .the same as scam, but I looked it up in sente:nce. Here it is: like. the dictionary and most Asirnple fow letter word has appropriately one of the never been so .abu~ed ?efOTe. definitions .for it is: to kiss and In proper Engltsh like 1s used caress, to make out with. So to draw similarities between whoever thought this one up two ihin:gs. However, in the was pretty clever. However, evel)\'day language of America's another definition of scam is: a you til H is used to mean fraudulent scheme, a swindle. eve~thing. I'llk the first one Go figure. to admit it, I 11se it all the 5) Diss, Dissed- This word time. f don't blow why or (which I could not find in the whell I acquired •such an awful dictionary, and leads me to habit, but I did. It is really wonder where the hell it came friglltening. Seriously, from) is not as popular as it som~times I !lear myself used to be. Basically, it means sayin_g it more than once in a rejection of any kind. If sentence. People don't even someone does not hook up, say \11!e said\ mymore they say call, or even say hello it is \he .g:oes like .. •• What the he.n considered an automatic diss. does that mea.n'l That Is The only words that I think defin_itely not English: I'm diss could have come from are clueless as to 9Yhen this fad dissatisfy and disappoint. start~d. All I len ow, is that I 6) Whatever- or more sit i~ class and listen to my commonly. Yeah whatever profe SS()l'S speak and wonder with a sarcastic tone in the how ·they can ·tall so well, and voice. I shouldn't really be they 111ever say like at all. I'm saying anything about this begi.ttning to thillk: maybe it's a word because I say it all the habit that goes away with age time. Whatever means Gust .[joking!). 1t is so much a \anything that\ (what that part :rof our way of speaking means I really couldn't tell that 'llnless I listen for it, I you). In any case, whatever don't even really hear it. But I means anything you want it to. know :that adults do, and we all Frequently people use it when soun<ll:ike (used in t~e _Proper they are describing a story. sense} a bun~h of ,tdmts to They will say \and we went them, Somet11nes I 11 try not March 4, 1993, page B3 4. ' JD)e~r Unte[~ JBdml<~t Uncle Edna is a Union College student who answers real questions from real people. )rnery? Fed-up? Cabin- feverish? Why ask Anne or Abbey when you can ask your own dear Uncle Edna. The first question this week came to me in many forms from various people. The following is a good example. Dear Uncle Edna: Recently, during the long cold spell, I have noticed several people who wear shorts everywhere. Who are these idiots and why de they insist on wearing shorts during the coldest part of the year? -perplexed . Dear perplexed: Some things in life really have no explanation. Why various insect families devour their young, why Ginger had all those extra c.Iothes on a three hour tour. and why people actually vo-ted for Ross Perot are good examples. As I have explained in previous articles, crack is the only answer. People do crack and do weird things. You short wearers should seek therapy and seek it soon. Dear Uncle Edna: Recently, I have noticed that my love-partDer isn't performing up to standards. His performance gets weaker and weaker each night. What can I do to help this problem? - needing help Dear help: Change 'his' batteries. Dear Uncle Edna: What was up with the power outage last Sunday nigllt? -in tbe dark Dear dark: Many rumors have spread and I'm not sure of the real reason. A goocl guess, however, wou'ld be that President Hull forgot to pay the bill. DEAR READERS: This edition of Uncle Edna marks the one year anniversary of my column. In an attempt to generate a sense of humor at Union College, I have brought you perversion, sa tire and twisted reality. If I have offended, I am sorry. If I have raised anger, my apologies. It was all in the name of laughter, and certainly we can use a little of that. Thank you for youif support, most especially those of you who continually ask me questions, and to those of you wllo I overhear in the College Center reading aloud my jokes and making me smile. With that I · bid-you well and· say 1J()Odhye. I hereby retire Edna's skirt, making this my last issue. Adeou. 2) Random- Granted, people do use this word the way it should be used, but it can get extremely annoying. This is another word whose origin I wonder about. The first time I heard it I asked myself why anyone would ever say it. It just seems to me like a word I would use to sound intellectual, or an SAT word. But, now I have gotten used to hearing \that is so random\ or here's my favorite \You are so random!\ How on earth can I be random? W3$ I an accident? Did my parents say to themselves \let's make a random decision. let's have a kid!\ Just a littlle something to think about. here and we ate and then to use it., but it never works! 1----------------------- 3) Ho- Shortened version for ..,.whore. I really have nothing whatever.\ Hello, am I a mind This is really a dilemma! reader? And whatever what? Mayb-e I should take a speaking Whatever in that sense could course! All the other words I have meant a million different have mentioned are relatively things. It could have meant tolerllble, but o11ce I started \we went home, we hooked up, noticing Hke, I can't stop! we jumped off a cliff!\ How is Write And For Be Features Popular Do You Hear What I Hear? Mich.elle Rosenbaum Features Writer because I've been introduced to defini-tely helpful during finals ...so many different kinds, week! especially since I live on a co- Befor~ I callle to Union ed floor in west. whenever anyone ,put on RAP I Lets start with those who are wouldi ql!ickly turll it offl Now A.s I glanced around on my really back in the 60's. So after !hearing it mmost every first days at Uoion., I thought union isn't very earthy day. it's teally n()t so bad. I everyone was the same. Of crunchy. granola or whatever never ceuld und<lrstand what course not everyone, but for names you call it. Yet, if you they're saying, btJt it's not so the most part, the majority of want \crunch\ you can bad. I jlive a lot of credit to the students looked like they definitely fmd it! Walk around those who could sing all the came straight from a \J-Crew the halls, there are plenty of words 'lo it! That must be hard catalogue!\ This got me people who love the Grateful to do! It's great for those times nervous. I wanted a school full Dead. Along with the Dead when you're just hanging out of diversity, yet looking around usually comes Ph ish, and listening to lllusic. I didn't see it. After being here Widespread Panic, and Blues Ho11semusic, or dance music two terms, I realize that Union Traveler. All these groups are as some call it, allother lack in is diverse. Everyone has great when you want to my CD collecti()n is really different opinions, styles, mellow out with your friends. popular here. Es{)ecially at late goals, and desires. It may be If you've never been to a dead night iratemity !).arties. It's a hard to find this diverseness, show, I highly recommend it. great \Way to get yourself in a but it definitely is here. One Even if you don't listen to good mood before you go out. example of diverse is the them, it's an experience you It's m11sic to dan(e and party different kinds ()f music people won't want to miss! I went to! listen to. and had the greatest time! Them there are tliose who I came here li:stening only to Then there is the music to listen t() Jimmy :Buffett, Van classic rock. I didn't even mellow out in a different way. Morrisson. James Taylor and know what songs were on the 1 never knew so many people any other music ~veryone top 10 chart. Call me listened to Yanni, George knows. all the wor«<s to and just ignorant, but hey, I'm stuck in Winston, or even Beethoven! I sings lllong. If yo11 ever played the 60's mode. I always wish never thought I'd listen to BrowrtEy-ed Girl at a party and we could go back to the times classical music at college! It's turned: the music off, wherever of woodsto~k and see what .it great relaxation music .• You you. are. oo one :vould . even was really like. I love mustc . can sttJ4Y .t9Jtl r~aQ ,tp,lt, •. o~ . notice; the mustc not on, ·.·,·rol'El·na-w:·I·,tove~'it-··even·<mote- .... 'e'ven.~·la1r ~asleep 'td ~ur ·· ·rts' ·' 15e'c'a1J'se~ ~vetyon~ ·wo\ttti· 1>\e smgmg. The majority of Union seems to listen to this music. It's music for all types. Margaritaville and American Pie definitely hit the singing top 10 at Union. I was never really introduced to alternative music until I got here. The closest thing I heard to alternative was U-2, and it's not even considered alternative. Now I hear it all the time. Simply listening to WRUC introduced me to a change of pace.. Did you ever hear of the Dead Milkmen, King Missile or Buffalo Tom? People who like alternative usually enjoy mosliing in a pit. Wouldn't it be cool to walk into a fraternity party and watch a bunch of people thrashing in a pit? I don't really see this happening. but you never know the future. I'm not really familiar with this type of dancing, but it sounds like something new and interestin!! to try! Anywhere you go you can find people listening to the radio. It's a ~reat way to get a variety of music, if you're one of those who can't decide or what to listen to. Personally, I think they ruin songs. It's like over studying or over practicing. After a while you don't get anything out of it! Compare this to over played music. The more it's played, the less people will like it! You simply get sick of it. For example, the song \Two Princes,\ by the Spin I>octors. I used to love the Spin Doctors, especially that song, but enough already! These aren't even all the kinds of music here! There's too much to even write about! So, if you're ever thinking there's no diversity, or Union is too monogamous, walk around and open your ears! Listen to all the different kinds of music around! No matter what mood you're in, you never have to feel silent. There's music for anyone no matter what type of person you are.

March 4 .. 1993 1 page B4 Union's Little Instruction Book by Jea Ua~rberg Thank a teacher Leave a perufy in the cup at Dutch Hollow Shovel someone·s car out of a sn()w bank Spend some time at The Open l)oor Go to a student art e:xhibit See a play on campus Thank the mail man for putting mail in your box Offer to pick up your food at a delivery restal.lfant Clean up a ·table at the College Center · .. · Offer to drive security Read someone' s thesis Spend time with an old roommate Reminice with friends Pl'Ow the parking lot Cali. a friend from home Apologize for forgetting a birthday Skip around the perimeter of Union Walk through a drive through Write cliff ilotes for the menu at Fridays Bike down the Mohawk River path Have a picnic at Central Park Watech a friend play a sport · Fill youF ,friend's car up with gas_ Cb.eck under the hood Do the Anthropogical thing and walk. through a carwash to see how it feels for ycmr car · · Offer a ride Ride tile Carousel at Rotterdam Play Bingo Play the piano at the College Center Sing at Caberet Volunteer at the Union Day Care Go to Minerva Hour Thank the man who plows the snow Fix theNott Spen.d' a day at Crossgates Make up a \funniest home video\ Put all of yatU\ pictures in a photo album Make a friend a mixed tape Re!_lt a movie that you know every line to Smoosh your face on the copy machine and zerox it · Say \b:i!' to a toll-boeth peroon . Be a big or little brother . Union's Little Destruction Book Use all the pennies in the cup, everytime Ask for samples of yogurt with spriiilles on top Respond to someone • s thesis topic with, ~•yeah, an<l what else are you going to write abotJt.\ · Print out at least 100 pages on the Ia:zer printer Call for an escort during the day · Bring a highly contageous disease into Union Call friends long distance at times when you are sure they will not be there, so they must return your calls and pay for the bill Attempt to take ilUL less than a $10.00 increment out of the bank machine Check the box for \personal checker\ on your Gradllate School Exams Ask Casey Casin what the bottom 40 S9ngs are Hit snooze five times Order a plain hamburger at Mc.Donalds so your friend must pull over to the side Refuse to spell 'Schenectady' for someone Refer to Union as \the Harvard of the Tri-State area\ Answer on an exam with \I thought you knew\ Put ''Gainer•s fuel\ in someones \slim fast\ Tell location jokes to people who weren't there Don\t answer call waiting Take a half h.our shower in your dorm During an exam, continuously ask for additional blue books, (it'll cause pandemonium in your class, especially if done within the first five minutes) . Remind a professor about- a homework assignment Move your leg up and down nervously tltroughout your entire exam Next term, welcome people back from term abroad, especii!Ily if they weren't away · Ask Seniors wbat they're doing next year Act like a complete idiot infroJlt of a visiting professor. When a friend asks you to test them. test them· ofi infonnation that is -not on the ex-am~ ' · Ask a friend what they;re going to wear when the friend is standing tbere in a formal dress FEATURES <TI11u.cnrbieu.sia Ned .Walley- What a Guy! Erin M. O'Neil Features Editor As this is the last issue of the Concordiensis for the winter term, I'd like to take ,tbis opportunity to tell you all aoout someone who is near and dear to my heart. A man ulllike any other. A man who is rarely recognized for his enormous contribution to the Union College campus- Editor- alld-Chief of our illustrious Co-ncordiensis ... it's Ned Walley! I know girls, calm d()wn. There's more to this man than his tall, dark, and handsome physique, although it may be hard to believe. Ned is a man of intelligence, cltarm, and gosh- I really think he's neat. I recently had a cltance to get up close and personal with the man himself, alld decided to share a few ex.cerpts from this exclusive meeting. Ned Walley. Now, is that your real name, or were your parents just in an especially giddy mood at the time of your birth? Actual'ly, the name is derived from the Latin root, Nedlium- meaning sandwich meat. My parents really have a thing about salami. Hmmm ... I see. Tell me .salami, oh- l mean Ned, how · dl) you deal with the throngs of women surrounding you wherever you go? Does it bother you? Well, I recently hired a bodyguard, but this isn't because I don~t love my fans. There was just this one incident... (trails off) Please Ned, go on. ls it too painful fo.r you? No, no ... it's okay (blinking back tears). I can talk about it now. One night, a couple of weeks ago, I was gettin-g my mail at the College Center. there were women around, they're always around, but this one in particular, she ... she ... (begins sobping uncontrollably) Ned, it's okay. You don't have to finish, I can see how painful this is for you. No! . No! (pounds fist on table) I can do this! I have to prove to myself, and everyone else that I can do this. This one woman came up behind me when 1 was bending over my mailbox, and well she ... : goosed me. Her nails were really long, and I started bleeding everywhere. I was ' rushed to the hospital, where they performed emergency I reconstructive surgery but (chokes up) ... they say my left cheek will never be the same _ again. Oh Ned, im so .sorry. I didn't realize. On to a lighter .topic. What will Ned Walley be doing after retiring from the Concordiensis? Where will we see you next? Well, I had considered a career in adult films, but since the accident, well... obviously that's out of the question. I guess I'd just like to find a girl, settle down, and if we want, we can marry. I'm getting a little tired of life as a playboy. I need stability. Know any nice girls that are available? Well women, here's your chance. Submit your Name, address, telephone number, and photo to the \I W ANNA BE NED'S WOMAN\ sweepstakes Box #1558 Union College Schenectady, NY 12308 All entries must be received by March 31, 1993 to qualify. The winner will be selected by Ned himself. · The ·lucky woman gets to marry Ned, and bear his Nedlets. A dream come true. Get those pencils moving! R E S E R .. V E OFFIC:ERS' TRAINING C 0 R P S SUMMER SCHOOL FOR PEOPLE ON THEIR WAY TO THE TOP. If you didn't sign up for ROTC a~ a fresh· By the time you have graduated from man or sophomore. you can st~ll catch college, you'll have the credentials of up to your classmates by attendmg an Army officer. You'll also have Ar:ny ~OTC Camp Challenge,. a the self-confidence and discipline paid s1x-wee];: ~ummer course In 11 takes to succeed in college leadership trammg. and beyond. ARMY ROTc THE SMARTEST COLlEGE C01JRSEYOU W TAKE. (PMS: LOCALIZE HERE) FIND OUT MORE! Contact Captain Stephen Smith at the Siena College Department of Military Serfice,. QI 783-24 77

CAMPUS BULLETIN BOARD March 4, 1993, page BS SENIORS Thought about speaking at Commencement? If you are interested in speaking, submit a 1-4 page (approx. 5 min . .) draft to MRS. MARRA in CC 408 by Friday, ,April 23. The topic is yours to choose. Please include your ID number, name, box and phone numbers on your draft. If you wish to sing the Alma Mater or the National Anthem, please send your name, box and phone numbers to MRS. 'MARRA, CC 408 before April 23. \Why I honk you.:,. Th?nk Y.au vory rquchl\ Auditions will be held on Man,. May 3, and Thurs. May 6, at 7:00p.m. in Room SS016. Sign up for an audition time when you submit your draft or name to Mrs. Marra's office. BECOME A PEER FACILITATOR • GET .LEADERSHIP TRAINING. DEVELOP YOUR PRESENTATION SKILLS. • LEARN .MORE ABOUT: RELATIONSHIPS, SEXUALITY, SEXISM, ACQUAINTANCE RAPE, RACISM, HOMOPHOBIA, DIVERSITY, AIDS, ETC. • PUT ON WORKSHOPS ON THESE TOPlCS TO FACILITATE DISCUSSION AMONG STUDENTS •. QUALIFICA..TIONS: • POSSESS EF·FECTIVE INTERPERSONAL COMMUNICATION SKILLS. HAVE THE ABILITY TO SPEAK TO LARGE GROUPS, AND LISTEN EFFECTIVELY TO OTHER.S' PERSPECTIVES AND CONCERNS. • BE ABLE TO GIVE APPROXIMATELY 4-5 HRSIWK TO THE PROGRAM. • BE WILLING TO MAKE A COMMl'TMENT TO THIS POSITrON FOR THE SCHOOL YEAR '93-'94. APPLICA T£0NS: o AVt\.ILABLE AT THE CDC (OLD CHAPEL); SUBMIT BY WEDNESDAY 3/10. INTERCOLLEGIATE GOLF Anyone interested in playing for the Union College intercollegiate golf team duriflg the spring term must attend this important organizational meeting. Date: Time: Place: Monday, March 8 4:00PM STUDENT I PHOTOGRAPHY EXHIBITION FEBRUARY 16 THROUGH MARCH 7, 1993 TIMOTHY FISHER GREGG LAVINE KASHALEWIS BEVAN MEYERS PAMELA NOVELL CARLOS PEREZ UNION COLLEGE DEPARTMENT OF VISUAL ARTS 2ND FLOOR PHOTO GALLERY ARTS BUILDING V\E ARE PLEASED TO OFFcoR UNICN CCLLEGE TELECOMMUN !CATIONS GIFT CERTIFICATES \HAPPY BI.RTH DAY\ .77:§~'J t:~~TELL ~~u.:~v ''I'M SORRY\ ~'WELCOME BACK\ \GOOD LUCK\ r ,..-~ <,:\ UNION COLLEGE TE!..EPHCNE GIFT CERTIF !CATES ARE AVAILABLE FOR PURCH.ASE AT THE TE~ECOMMUNICATIOrJS OFFICE. COLLEGE CENTER/103. FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 370-6..\.11. FERO HOUSE ·First Floor Meeting Room is now available for use by your student groups Please contact the Student Activities Office :x6118,CC408 to make arrangements ••• a11d, for the rest of this term, WE'LL PROVIDE THE COFFEE! Also ••• Last week of class and thru finals we•n be open for quiet study a11d FREE COFFEE from 11 u4 Alumni Gym classroom, 5th floor Any questions, please call Coach Scanlon at 370-6286 Schaffer Li b:rary - Ex:. tended Hours To be considered for financial a;·~ you need to APPLY! Monday, March 8 - Thursclay, March 18, 1993 Upperclass aid applications are available thrtugh the Financial Aid Office in Becker Hall. To be considered for all financial aid programs, the FAFSA/F . .O.F booklet must be forwarded' to CSS by March 1, 1993. All other application In ad<lition to the regular library hours, Schaffer Library will have the following extended hours: 11:00 P.M. to 1:00 A.M . (These hours are for studying only) . materials are due to the Financial Aid Office by April 15, 1993. Call Maya Angelou Speaking at Sunday March Skidmore for Skidmore 3 7:00 Further Details ATTENTION ALL SENIORS: CLASS MEETING THURSDAY (TODAY) ATSPM 3RD FLOOR LOUNGE, CC * * * Al'<::-.iOUNCEME!\T ~he Phil<>;ophy Department announce5 a competition for essay prizes traditionally \\'ardc·d at Prize Day: The Celia Claubach Prize · awarded to a student who has shown an interest in the cultural significance of the Bible from a secular point of view by submittting a work on one of the following subjects: literary and textual criticism of Biblical subjects; development and production of a short story or play based on the Bible; Biblical archaeology: Biblical historicity, philosophy of the Bible. The \tilton Hymes Sternfeld Prize · awarded lor the best original ess<~y m philosophy by a member of the senior class. ·\Inc'\ f<•r prize competlt:on ~hould be sumbttted pseudonymously to Mrs. ,{,mJnn<' SnDI\.\dt>n Humanities 215. not later thnn 12:00 noon on April 2. ]C)C13 The tu!lwr's name and Clmpus address should be enclosed in a separate envelope J...en•d .,, the· P'<'Udon \·1r No circulating or reserve materials will be charged out. No reference desk services. Please help us to keeJl food and drink restricted to the All Night Study area. MARCH 19Cl3 JClQ~.03 SPRI:-;'G IER'.l REGISTR.\TI0\1 CHECK.r-. PROCEDt RES SpringTenn clo.sse~ will b~gin on Monday. M:mh 2<lth Student '.:ht:duk' will bt: distributed to mailboxes lo~ated in the College C~nter pnor to the beginning of classes. Dllp1icate copies of class schedules will be available in Old Chapel on the first day of classes. Formal registration will take place in OLD CHAPEL on MONDAY. TUESDAY AND WEDNESDAY. MARCH 29, 30 and 31st Smdents are reminded that ALTHOUGH YOUR SCHEDULE MAY BE COMPLETE (NO CHANGES) YOU ARE STILL REQUIRED TO FrLL OUT THE REGISTRATION PACKET. THE REGISTRATION check-in procedures consist of the following: 1.) Pick up registratioll packet 2.) Fill out and make necessary corrections. 3.) Drop cards ill designated boxes. This process is requtred of EVERY STUDENT EACH TERM THEY ARE IN ATTENDANCE AT UNION COLLEGE re~md!ess of whether or not thev have finalized their schedule or have paid for the term. Fatlure to complete the registration packets may jeopardize financial a~d awards Jlld academic credit Registratioll packets are considered late after 4.30 p.m. on Wednesday, March 31st and those students will recetve a pres.:heduhng appomtment for Fall term on FRIDAY, May 28th whtch ts the last day ot prescheduling. If students still have not checked m by 4 30 p m. on Wednesday. April 14th all <:~ddiuonal penalty of a S50 fine wtll he 1mposeJ If you anuc1pate reumung.to schoollnte, pleme notify the Regl'tr:rr' Offtc·e immediately Provided there is a leoinmnte reason. we mav be Jnle to v.,ll\ e the late fee It ts, however. the student'' re,pon<ibtlit~ to nntrf) thetr mstrucrors if lhey anticipate returning late for clas<e' The last day to declare a cour'e \Pass-F:ul\ ts FRIDAY. Arnl :nJ The IN day to make 'chedu!e .:hanges tadJ. drop. 't!\Uon .:hJng~\ without 'P~~r.li pernu's1on is FRIDAY. Apnl qth .\n~ .:our,edrorrd <If \'Jt.:hd Jltcr th..t date will re~ult 1n a gr:~d~ of 'W\ 0n th~ ,1uJent, tr.ln,.:npt P.,:- m..:nt .>t tenn bt!b ur to rt:,ul~e ..1n) btlling prohlem' \'II he hJnuleJ 111 the !1u,llo~-­ Otfi.:e locat~d 111 th~ Admltll,trauun BUJ!dtnl! §mr de Jn CColl r gtJtr Ports tin tho Ia~:> International P~blications is sponsonng a ~ational (ollegr t)ol'tf!' ~ontrs: ··Spnng Concours 1 993·· open to all c..olleg~ and umversl'ty students desmng to ha·,e the'r poe.try antt.ol og•zed. CASH PRIZES writ go to the top f'\e poems $100 $50 $?- -0 $20 ='\\\ : S20 :=flo I F11sl Place Second Place Th\d Plooe I AWARDS ol PU'blication for ALL accepted manuscnpts .n our popular, ttandsomely bound and copynghted anthology AM ERIC AN COLLEGIATE POETS. Deadline: March 31 CONTEST RIULES AND RESTRICTIONS; 1. Any StlJde!lt is eligible to submtl h1s or her verse. 2. All etJ:trties must be original and unpubtrshed. Poems previa usly printed in student publicattons are acceptable. 3 All entries must be typed, double-spaced. on one s1de ol :he page only. Each poem must be on a separate sheet and must bear, In the upper left· hand corner. the NAME and ADORE SS of the st11dent as well as the COLLEGE attended. Putnam\ and address on envelope also! (Aiumm Welcome') 4 There <Jre no restrictions on form or theme. Length ot poems up to f'Ourtee11 lines. Each poem must have a separate to tie (Avoid \Untitled\') Small black and wh1te Jliustrattons welcome 5 The judges' dec1s1on Will be float. No mfo by phone' 6. Entrants sliould keep a copy ot ali entnes as they cannot oe returnee[. Prize w1nners and all authors awarded publtcatrcn wrll rece-tve a gold·seal certJIIcate ten days aftet the oeJolme I. I\ will ret am one· time publ•catJon r~ghts for acceoteo Joem> Foreign language poems welcome. 1 There 15 an tn1t1a1 S3 reg•strat1on tee for the f1rst entr., .aru 1 ·e~· of one dollar for each addltronal poem. 8 All entn es must be postmarked not later !han t!1e .lb·\\ deadiJ ne and fees be pa1d. cash. check or .,one.,. ·''~L·' • · INTERNATIONAL PUBLICATIONS P 0. Box .t4044·L Los AngeiP~ CA 9004-t

March 4, 1993, page B6 Knicks and A Midseason By Hal Poret Co Sports Editor dominant player for the Nets. He currently leads the league in 3-point percentage, is lOth in the league in scoring with 23.1 points a game, and is lOth in With approximately 26 the league in free throw games left in the NBA season, percentage at 87%. Metropolitan New York Petrovic is not the only Net basketball has reached a new who has stepped up his high which we have not seen performance this season to lead in years. After the New Jersey the team. Power forward Nets' 102-76 trouncing of the Derrick Coleman is one of the New York ICnicks on Sunday league's best scorers and on national television, we rebounders, and back-up center officially have a great local Chris Dudley leads the league rivalry. At 31-24 and in 4th in rebounds per minutes place in tile Eastern Conference played. In addition, point (as of Tuesday), the Nets have guard Kenny Anderson has shown the NBA that they are really come into his own no longer the team to be scoring 16.9 points a game pushed awund by their bigger (3rd on the Nets) and leading Broadway ueighbors. Though the team in assists, dishing out the Knicks seem to be in 8.2 a game. control of the Atlantic But Kenny Anderson is now Division, 5 and 1/2 games in on the injured list because of a front of the Nets, the Knicks flagrant foui by the Knicks', must start to fear a potential John Starks i.n the Nets' matchup with New Jersey in victory over the Knicks the second round of the NBA Sunday. This has created some playoffs. bad blood between the local After the em harassing loss teams, which has increased the to the Nets, which was heat of their growing rivalry. preceded by a pathetic 108-80 With J·ust under 9 minutes to loss to tlle 23-30 Detroit go in the 3rd qaarter, and the Pistons, the Knicks have Nets ahead 58-46, Anderson relinquished the best record in drove to tlle basket and was the East to the defending hammered in the chest and face champion Chicago Bulls. And by Starks, causing him to after seven wins in a row, the crash to the floor, fracturing red hot Cleveland Cavaliers his left wrist. Anderson did were only 6 percentage points make the basket, and the behind the ICnicks. So what following free throw to put the does this mean for the playoff Nets up by 15, but he was picture in the East which will forced to leave the game and soon be coming into better will now miss several focus? If tile Knicks finish important upcoming games for wtth a worse record than the the Nets against the Bulls, Bulls, they will not only have Magic and Nuggets. The Nets to play the Cavs in the second have requested that Starks be round, but they will probably suspended for at least a game, have to play a series against and NBA vice president Rod the Bulls, without the home- Thorn has stated that the league court edge which is so will review the incident. This important te them. If god- is not the first time Starks has forbid, the Knicks finish been involved in a dirty play behind Cleveland and Chicago, and he probably deserves to be they would be slated to face suspended a game for what both these teams in the could amount t<> a serious loss playoffs without the homf\ for the Nets. However, later in cowt advautage, and tbe Knicks the game Nets forward Derrick would be hard-pressed to Coleman smashed Knick guard survive both series. Greg Anthony and was called But what if the Knicks can for a flagrant foul which manage to win the East? A appeared to be harsher than first place finish would match Starks' hit on Anderson. the Knicks up against the Nets Coleman will also probably be in the second round of the reviewed by the league for his playoffs, assuming New Jersey retaliation on Anthony. continues its impressive pace. Though both fouls were This has now become a very unfortunate, the Nets did defeat scary matchup for the Knicks. the division-leading Knicks, No team in the league, let and the game did a great deal to alone the Knicks, has figured promote the Knicks-Nets out how to stop Net scoring rivalry which could develop guard Drazen Petrovic. into one of the most exciting Petrovic can shoot the baH basketball matchups. NBA with deadly accuracy from a fans would be lucky to be tremendous range, and has also treated to a confrontation become a wizard of offensive moves driving to the basket. between New York and New Chuck Daly watched Drazen Jersey in the .playoffs, which Petrovic's incredible would have a good chanceto performances in the summer : ~o seven games. But for all Olympics, leading the Croatian the Nets have accomplished, team to a silver medal. Daly they cau only get better. They observed that in addition to are not dangerous as contenders shooting, P~tro could post-up this season for two reasons. other guards and could dribble, They do not have adequate .spin and fake his way to the scoring off the bench and they basket when guarded closely do not play defense 6n the level from the Olltside. Daly has of the Knicks and Bulls. These · b reasons are clps~! y . r~t.a.t~~ ,hel~e~ I~etn>YJC ~ecom.c ,a,... .. ......... , .. ~ · SPORTS Nets: Report because a series witll the Knicks and their tenacious, physical defense would be physically exhausting for the Nets. Ask the Bulls, who were . ex. tended to seven games by the Knicks last season. Without any ability to get points off the New Jersey bench, the Knicks would wear down the concentrated talent of the Nets with their physical defense. The flagrant foul on Starks is not surprising. The Knicks play tough, aggressive and sometimes violent defense. Starks, Charles Oakley, and Anthony Mason have been caUed for numerous similar fouls this season. The Knicks simply knock the strength out of teams with their defense. The Nets, on the other hand, are fairly weak on defense. When back-up center Chris Dudley is not in the game, they do not have a proven : defensive stopper. Petrovic can shoot the ball all game, but to be totally effective he must be able to stop his man at the other end of the court. Expect the Nets to trade for or draft some bench scoring and · defense. These are the remaining pieces missing for a championship contender in New Jersey. Whether you root for the Nets or Knicks, any basketball fan should be enjoying the budding rivalry between two local teams establishing themselves as real forces in the NBA. Though the Knicks are more of a contender this · season, the Nets probably have the better talent and more of a hope to win a championship in £he upcoming years. How do you spell stress? Some top causes of stress - and how to avoid them. L ocial isolation ~ Don't withdraw- find SCICial support. Be with people you enjoy, not just those you feel you \should\ be with. -rhinking . . · · unrealistically · Avoid unrealistic e)(pectations and demands on yourself. Make rational plans. Set priorities. gid body '\lM.t~· ·. Physical tension causes elevated heart rate and blood pressure. Relax your body. Breathe deeply, exercise, go limp for 30 seconds. Express your feelings. Don't pretend to be jolly if you're not. Be honest. Don't overdo. Take breaks. Get enough rest. Eat right. Spend time doing something you enjoy. <1.1JJu.corhieuzin Marge Schott Blasted from Baseball By Greg Kalish Concordiensls Staff Wow are you a lucky person Marge Schott! Lucky that I was not on that \committee\ whose job it was to reprimand you for your senseless racial comments. Lucky that you still own a major league baseball team. Lucky that you still own your dogt This past Monday, Marge Schott, owner of baseball's Cincinnati Reds, visited the Reds spring training site in Florida to bid her farewells to her players and staff. Last month, Schott was suspended from baseball for one year because of racial and ethnic slurs she made regarding her personnel. Nearly a dozen people testified to having heard these comments aimed at blacks, Jews, and Hispanics. Yet, Schott received little more than a slap on tbe wrist. As part of her suspension, she is no longer allowed to sit in the owners box behind the dugout. Now she must sit in the executive board's luxury lounge upstairs. Poor thing! She must hand over day-to-day operations of the team to her assistant Jirn Bowden. But don't you think for a minute that Schott won't have a say in what goes on. Was George Steinbrenner sitting home watching Wonder Years re- runs while the Yankees were signing five million dollar free agents. I think not! The \punishment if you wish to call it that, given to Marge Schott is undoubtedly and undeniably a joke, and it represents aU that is now bad about a game that was once so pure and good. Just this past weekend, Reverend Jesse Jackson, whose unanticipated appearance at baseball's Winter Meetings in Kentucky sent a shockwave down many owner's spines, issued an ultimatum to Major League Baseball. He stated that a minority-hiring plan must be in place by the time the 1993 season begins during the first week of April. What he will do if such a plan is not in place is unknown, however, there is no denying that this is a necessary step in ' making baseball a more \equally-opportunistic\ sport. There are no minority general managers and, when the seasons begins, only three teams will have minority managers. One of them,. ironically, is the Reds. While not taking anything away from the new Red's manager Tony Perez, who is more than deserving of this opportunity, it seems only natural that Schott would hire a minority manager in the midst .of the allegations against her. The other teams are the Kansas City Royals and the Toronto Blue Jays. This past October, Cito Gaston, the manager of the Blue Jays, became the first minority manager to win a World Series, a milestone for baseball minority activists. Still, baseball is not doing enough. The problem of minority hiring stems down to the minor league systems. Many non- minority present day managers received their training in the minor leagues and used them as a stepping ground for the majors. Any player or mauager will tell you that minor league experience is an essential ingredient for success. More minorities must be hired to manage, coach, or operate minor league franchises so they may acquire the needed resources and experience to not only make it to the major leagues, but also to be successful there, paving the way for future minorities in the process. Last week, a scout for the Baltimore Orioles continued in the fine tradition of Marge Schott by making racist remarks regarding Hispanics. While the Oriole organization has publicly apologized for the remarks, a Latin activist group based in California has called for the firing of this scout. How can Oriole management even think twice about whether or not to dismiss this employee? As far as I'm concerned, this guy would have been long gone from my team. Organization, such as the Orioles, must take advantage of the opportunity to make it abundantly clear to all who may not understand that racist and bigoted remarks will not be tolerated. It is up to committees, such as the one given rhe responsibility of investigating and punishing Marge Schott, to ban such a person from the game. This committee failed miserably! How do you throw two men like Pete Rose and George Steinbrenner (although the latter of the two was reinstated Monday) out of baseball for violations dealing with money but yet allow a bigot to remain as owner of a baseball team?! Baseball must adopt a policy for racists, one that is strict, demanding, and unwa¥ering. Marge Schott, laughingly questioned as to whether her dog, a St. Bernard known for running on the field had to serve a suspension as well. · Write For Sports Avoid too much of a good thing. Take some quiet time each day for yourself . • \ ........ OJ: .. .,c,...,. 'lr,.,.._,..,.,.,_.,~ .......... ~_ ................ _~ .,,L-----··-··-------·-·-···------------~

<llJJllCllf ui£1U1iS Swimming continued frompageB8 17th in the 200 free and was in an A relay also. Drew Pirich was 14th in the 100 fly and 17th in the 200 fly with a huge time drop. Dave Lunianski got 9th in the 200 back, 11th in r the 100 back, and 18th in the 200 individual medley. Martin Logan got lOth in the 50 free and 18th in the 100 free. Matt Woodrow took 13th in the 100 'Jreaststroke and 18th in the 200 breaststroke. John Fitzgerald placed 15th in the 1650 free and 17th .in the 400 individual medley. Adam Horst got 18th in the 1650 freestyle. Joe Saltzbart took 21st in the 100 fly and Geoff Wolfe got a career best in the 100 free and missed placing by only two tenths of a second. For the divers, Dave Robison has qualified for ' Nationals and took first in both the 3-meter and 1-meter diving events, and took diver of the meet honors. Matt Baumgartner did exceptionally well also, as he pulled in a third and fourth place in the SPORTS individual events (Bowden and Robison). It was a total team effort and it was awesome.\ Without a doubt, it was awesome. Congratlllations to the entire team, and good luck to all of the swimmers and divers who are preparing for the National Championships! March 4, 1993, page B7 Brianna Patnode Hockey Win continued frompageB8 time this season that the Dutchmen have scored five goals in a game (Union scored · five in the season opener against Anny). The Dutchmen hope to That is nothing short of. amazing. Cliff Shaw took 6th in the 1650 free for a school record in the 1650 and the 1000 free. He also placed lOth in the 200 fly and 21st in the 500 free. Sven Zabka got school records in both the 100 and 200 backstrake as he took 4th and 5th in those events and 9th in the 200 freestyle. James Ernst got a school record in the 50 free and: placed 5th in that and 8th in ·the 100 free.. Robbie Johnson got the school record in the first 50 yards of his 100 yard breaststroke and in the 100 breaststroke itself, as well as the 200 breaststroke, as he took 9th in the 100 and 17th in the 200. Bill Humphreys took second in the 100 fly, third in the 200 fly, and 24th in the 200 free, as well as being part of two of the record-breaking relays. Kobi took 9th in the 400 individual medley and was only one second off the school record in his first time ever swimming the event. He also took 14th in the 1650 free. Chip Quarrier placed 8th in the 50 free, 13th in the 200 breast. and 14th in the 100 breast. Chip was also in three of the A relays. Chris Riley took 7th in both the 100 free and 200 free and 12th iil the 500 free, and he was part of two of the A relays. Chris Yousey got 11th, 12th, and 13th, in tile 200 individual medley, the 100 back, and. the 200 back and was involved in one of the record- \\'~·..u·6. A relays. Seth Sealfon two events. Matt and Dave really came through with awesome perfonnances. ....---------------, . continue their good. play in the Union bad better luck against Princeton. In the game at Achilles Rink, the Dutchmen put on perhaps their best performance of the year, as they skated to victory by a score of 3-l. Union has more at stake than just points this time around. The swimming and diving were fantastic all the way across the lineup. It was a tremendous effort. Said Coach Bassett,\I'm extremely happy with the men's team's performance, and I feel that they truly deserved it. The determination got .stronger as the meet went on. It was Union's best finish ever, and the first time that we won WRITE FOR ·sPORTS final two games of the season, on the road against Princeton and Yale. At home against Yale, the Dutchmen played well, but came up short by the score of 4-2. The Bulldog's record is 11-6-3 in the E.C.A.C., and 14-10-3 overall. Their leading scorer is Mark Kaufman, who has 21- goals 1 and.34-assists. After their loss at Achilles Gavin Colquohoun a Princeton defensemen was quoted as saying, \''ll bet you 100 buck that we beat them (Union) by 10 goals when we play tltern at Princeton\. We'll Gavin I'm a little short on cash these days, so I'll take you up on that bet. l ' • i ' .• ...:,, . . , GOOD LUCK ON FINALS! HOURS: ,._ - - - - - - ·- - -- - - - - - - - -- THIS COUPON ENTITLES YOU TO $1.00 OFF YOUR NEXT PURCHASE OF A PIZZA OR SUB AT ,CAMPUS PIZZA ____ ftllDI __________________ __ Sun.-Thurs. 11 AM-lAM Fri. Sat. 11AM-2AM EAT IN OR TAKE OUT FREE DELIVER $7 Minimum 370-3928 370-3928 370-3928 370-3928

tS Men's Swimming & Diving Has Record- Setting Performance 1 by Lee Stbacbter Concordiensis Staff There oo-e many reasons that this year' s New Yorlc State Men's Swimming and Diving Champiollships were Union's best ever. First, Union broke 16- that' s right,16- school records over the course of the three-day meet. Next, it was Union's best finish at States ever. Third, the team swam better and better as the meet went on, with everyone getting personal IJest times. Finally. the story of Union's comeback on Day 3 of the meet could be made into a movie due to its suspense and intensity. To start with, Union came in second in the state out of 16 teams: behind Hartwick and barely ia front of Hamilton. These three teams were way in front of the rest of the field. Union's s.econd place finish at States is their best ever. In fact, for the last five years under Coach Susan Bassett, the team has gone from finishing 15th, to 11th, to 5th, to 3rd, ~nd new to second. Thaf s improvement at its fmest. Now to the story of Union's c:omeback on the third day. To start the day, Union was 67 points behind second place Hamilton and 135 points behind first place Hartwick. Looking at the upcoming events, Union decided that second pliace would not be out of range., even though some incredible swims were needed. Slowly l>ut surely, the Union men began to cut into that 67 point deficit. First, Cliff Shaw, Ts uyoshi .. Ko bi\ Kobayashi, John Fitzgerald, and Adam Horst took 6th, 14th, 15th, and 18th in the 1650 yard freestyle. Then Sven Z1tbka, Dave Lunianski, and Chris Yousey carne in 5th,. 9th, and 12th in the 200 yard backstrole. This was followed by Scott Bowden, Chris Riley. James Ernst, Seth Sealfon, and Martin Logan getting 1st, 7tb. 8th, 14th, and 18th in the 100 yard free. Bowden's victory in: this event set the men's team into motion with a tremendous amount of noise and activity on the bench for every race. Chip Quarrier, Robbie J ohnso11.. and Matt Woodrow then took 13th, 17th, and 18th in the 200 breaststroke. Bill Humphries, Cliff Shaw. and Drew Pirich got 3rd, lOth, and 17th in the 200 yard butterfly. In the events mentioned, school records were broken in all but tile 200 yard fly, where Humphreys was less than four tenths ()f a second off the record. Finally, it came to the last two events: the 3-weter diving and the 400 yard freestyle: relay. Union was now trailing Hamilton by a narrow 3 7 points. When Dave Robison aJd Matt Baumgartner ; took a phenomenal first and third in the event, Union was given the chance to overtake Hamilton in the last event. Union's second relay, their B relay. took first in its heat, as Hamilton's B relay .moved up from its fourth seed in the heat to come in second. So going into the final heat of :the meet, Union was trailing by just 13 points. That meant that in order to overtake HamHton, Union's best relay, the A relay, needed to come in first and Hamilton's A relay needed to get fifth or worse. Seeded three seconds behind Ithaca's A relay, Union needed four great Skating Dutchmen Defeat Cornell performances from Zabka, against Colgate, the Dutchmell Ernst, Riley, and Bowden. ))~; Daga11 La Corte focused on their last borne And they got it, as Union out- __ A_ss_o_cl_·a_te_S-=-p_o_rt_s _E_dl_.to_r_. game against Cornell the touched Ithaca for first. Then following night. Cornell all eyes turned w see who Last season the Dutchmen defeated the Dutchmen 5-2 at would get third. fourth, and C(}mpiled two division wins Lynah rink in Ithaca, so the fifth- they all fmislled within a duri11g the entire season. This Dutchmen were seeking second, and everyone waited for year8 club was hoping to better revenge. Cornell opened the the scoreboard to show the tl!at mark with a win this past scoring at 6:17 of the first order of fmishing. To Union's weekend against Colgate or period on a goal by Brad dismay, Hamilton ·came up C()mell. The Dutchmen were Chartrand. The Dutchme11 with the third place finish., aBo hoping to end a ten game fought back, and at 15:40 of The only thing that could ICJsing strealcp wllich has left the same period. Jayso~ propel Union ahead of tliem at the bottom of the Flowers scQred his third goal Hamilton now was.... E:C.A.C. Union was unable to of the season, with assists by \Lane 2, from Hamilton, is will Friday, as the Red Raiders Brad Kllkko and Jeff JiampettL disqualified.\ We all heard the ()f Colgate beat the Dutchmen The period ended with the announcement over the PA, 5-2. Colgate jumped to a 3-0 Dutchmen and Cornelll and ·within seconds the entire le!ld before the Dutchmen got deadlocked at t-1. Union men's swim team was ()ll tile score board. Jeff The Dutchmen came out of launching themselves into a Jimpet1i scored his fourth goal the locker room like a new big communal pile with all the ()f the season at 6:48 of the- team, as they dominated the intensity of a World Series seco11d.period. Colgate scored Big Red. They swarmed the victory in the bottom of the ()!lee more, before Chris Cornell goal like a team ninth inning of Game 7. Use H11ncock tallied his second possessed, and at 4:17 of the whatever expression you like: g<>al of the seaso11 at 15: 15 of second period fmally broke the freaked out, we11t nuts, got the second period. There was tie. Cory Holbrough netted extremely psyched- it all means JW scoring in the third period. . the same thing- Union came ' u11til Colgate scored an empty- his third goal of the season from behind in astonishing n(tter at 19:51 to make the with an assist by Keith Darb}l. style. As it turns out, if final score 5-2. The Dutchmen continued the 'eight minutes remaining Brad Kukko shot the puck past a stunned Cornell goal tender, to make the score 3-1. Jayson Flowers and Jeff Jiampetti assisted on the goal. The flurry 1>f goals continued' in the third :period. Eight minutes into the final ;period, leading scorer Chris Albert tallied his sixth goal of :the season, with assists going .to Matt Kelley and Ryan ,\.laspa. Less than four minutes later, Alex Vallee came in alone, and shot the ,p11ck by Cornell goalie Eddy Skazyk; Jon Mac Donald and Keith Darby assisted on Vallee's second goal of the season. Following the fifth Union goal Skazyk was replaced by Andy Bandmski. The goaltending change sparked Cornell\s offense for two late goals, but it wasn't .enough as tbe Dutchmen held on for a 5-3 victory.. This vic!Qry marked only the second continued on B6 Hamilton had not jumped early .After the poor· performance onslaught of shots, and with and disqualified, wlho knows if · -~-----------'-------------,:__ ___ _:__~~~ they would have taken third, fourth, or fifth- it was extremely close~ So instead, the Dutchmen nipped Hamilton for second place. Throughout the meet, Union had many awesome performances. Over the five relays, Union's A Relays took third twice, second twice. and carne in first for the last relay of the meet. Union's B Relays beat all other B Relays in four of the five events, and took second tbe other time. All five . of Union's school records for the relays were shattered this Union Crew Faces Tough Season weekend. The individual events were even more impressive. In all three of Bowden's events, he got a school record and qualified for the Division III National Championships .. B cut\. That means that his time is considered, but not automatic, for him to go to Nationals. His events were second place in the 200 yard individual medley. second in the 200 yard free, and first place in the 100 yard free. continued, on B6 by Steve Mooar Concordiensis Staff Spring Break is just a few sbort weeks away, and unfortunately exams are right around the comer. Over the 11ext few weeks the Union Crew Team will be putting in tl1ose last bard practices on the ergs. Then, train for a week in Cllestertown, Maryland to remove all the Winter rust. The season begins on March 27th at Washington College, the following vteek:end is the Skidmore 111 vitational. From here the schedule becomes very difficult. On April lOth the Crew Team travels to PotLghkeepsie to race Army a11d Vassar. The following vteekend ·is at borne against Hobart, then back on the road to race Boston College and UVM. This year, State Championships will be held in Lake Placid on May 1st. Tile Team finishes with tw·o College Championship Regattas. The first is The Dad Vails in Philadel(>'hia for all boats. The second is i:n Worcester on May 15th for only eight man boats. To prepare for one of tile toughest seasons in recent Union Crew history the team warmed up with two indoor erg competitions. The first was in nearby Saratoga Springs. Where best results were turned in by Peter Schwab and Drew Forsberg. Pete took first place in the lightweight mens' category, whHe Drew won the 11ovice mens' competition. A week later was Crash B's heDd in Boston. Many of the best athletes in the worl~ travel le :B{)ston to comp-ete against the erg and other competitors. This year Peter Schwab and Matt Green made the drive. They finished 40 and 70 respectively out of 190 competitors in the lightweight mens' category. Winter Term was not only filled with a tough training schedule, there was the Erg Challenge. The concept is to keep the erg going for 24-homs straight to raise money for the team as well as the Schenectady Summer Youth Pmgram. This years Erg Challenge was the most successful with .approximately five hundred dollars being raised for the Schenectady Summer Youth Program. The team thanks all those that helped out including the Union Community and the staff at Tb~ Rotterdam SqJ.Jate Mall. 'j l i ,, i ' ;. ! I I t

