. nnror t.ensts The Student Newspaper of Union College 5'ince 1877 Volume CXXIII, Number XVII Schenectady, New York April 7, 1994 Student Forum Approves SAC Housing Evaluation Proposal Theme Houses· and Fraternities in College-owned Housing Must Apply For Renewal by David Levine Editor-in-c/tie/ Last Thursday, the Student Fo ... rum approved the much-awaited Procedure of Evaluation \by which organized resid.ential groups occupying College-owned lto~Ising apply for renewal,\ and the plan could be implemented this tenn, barring an unexpected veto by President Roger Hull. TI10ugh the process of complet- ing the legislation took four years, the ilnpHc'aHons of1ll'e\proposal on theme houses and fraternities· in college.-owned housing will be imtnediate. About the Evaluation Tite evaluation is a three-step process developed by the Student Affairs Council. The process in .. volves a Self Study Evaluation, a Team Evaluation, and an SAC Evaluation. The Self Study Evaluation re- quires each organization applying for housing to sub1nit a report to the SAC. Each group must- ad- dress its purpose and organiza .. tion, how well it maintains the College's facility, the leaming en- vironment fostered in the house, the recruiting, selection, and edu- cating of new members to the or- ganization, the diversity ·of the · group, as well as its contributions to the College. According to Professor Barry Smith, Chair.ofthe SAC, the Self Study provides an opportunity \for each organization to deter- mine whether they are living up to their own criterion for exist- ence so that the group can move forward ... no one is out to get rid of any groups.\ Smith added that the Self Study should be \healthy beneficial, and con- structive for organizations.\ The public presentation of each Self Study evaluation to any interested individuals will provide organi- zations with the opportunity to \share with the community their good achievements.\ The Team Evaluation involves two students (who are nominated by the Student Forum and con- finned by the SAC), one faculty member (chosen by the Dean of Faculty), and one administrator (chosen by the vice-president of Campus Life). llte Team· will have one month to evaluate each organization and submit a report to the SAC. According to the guidelines, \The evaluation teatn will assess how well the residen- tial group is achieving its goals and purposes.\ . l11e Team will read the Self Study evaluation and then they will conduct a series of interviews, first with the officers and members of the organization applying for renewal, then with .. the Dean of Students, and finally they will interview a .random sample of students and faculty. After the interviews; the Team wil1 .solicit comments from other members of the College commu- nity. The last step of the Team Evaluation requires members of the committee to visit the house and participate in relevant activi- ties. The committee, based on the collected information, will make recommendations to the SAC on the renewal of housing privileges to each organization. \Houses who demonstrate excellence in one or more areas and who have no significant shortcomings,\ ·wm receive three year renewals. The committee can also recommend two year and one year renewals based upon the reports, and can suggest a non-renewal if they \deem [the group] unfit for group housing.\ The final step in the process is- the SAC Evaluation. The SAC will \m.eet with the Team after .reading the Self Study and. Team Evaluation, invite representatives of the residential group. to com- ment on areas needing clarifica- Lee iollnson witlt llis laboratory equipment (plloto_ by Micltele Rosematt/TC) Engineering Students Win Awards at Recent Student Conference by Elizabeth DeKoven Concordiensis Staff Union College Seniors, Lee R. Johnson and John J. DeMarco, won awards at the American Society qf Mechani- cal Engineers, Region Ill Stu- dent Conference in March. Johnson won first place for his project entitled \Wind Tun- nel Simulation of Blood Flow in Cardiovascular Bypass Grafts\ ii1 a speaking contest at the con- ference. His project dealt with the fluid dynamics, the study of fluid motion and how it creates forces on objects like boats. \I got the basic idea for my project from my advisor, Profes- . sor Shanebrook,\ said Johnson. \I began the project in the sum- mer and continued it as my seM nior project.\. Funding for Johnson's project came from Robert Avon Smith, Union Col- lege Class of 1952. Johnson presented a video to demonstrate the flow pattern of air and smoke. He simulated blood flow through a Plexiglas model of an arterial bypass of the human femoral artery. 1 'These flow patterns present strong evi- dence as to where and how blood clots fonn,\ said Johnson. Also in- cluded in Johnson's project was a possible solution to coronary clot- ting, which included a vortex gen- erator. This would eliminate any stagnate regions caused by the fluid dynamics of the flow. \Since June of 1993 I have been working on this project non-stop,\ said Johnson. \In the summer I was putting in 40 hour weeks and during the school year I was work- ing on the project for about 30 hours each week.\ DeMarco won fourth place in .the speaking contest for his project entitled \The Union Col- lege Vortex Pump.'' He presented his design of a mechanical drive system to stimulate psychological flow-time characteristics of the human heart. \We could n~t.t have completed our projects without Roland Pierson and James Howard, the schools technicians,\ said DeMarco. \They designed the parts of our projects to comple- tion and we both express our gratitude towards them.\ Johnson and DeMarco will give their presentations again this Spring at the Steinmetz Sym- posium, the Union College ex- position of undergraduate re- search. In the design contest at the· conference four other Union Col- lege Students also won awards. In a contest which judged the mechanism that could carry the largest number of pennies up three stairs in the shortest period of time Brad Julicher '95 won · third place, Aaron Rees '95 won fifth place and Brian Davenport '95 received 6th place. Other institutions that were judged at the conference in- cluded Princeton University, Clarkson University, Syracuse University, Temple University, The University of Maryland, Bucknell University, Alfred Uni- versity and Lafayette College. tion, and may request the Team to conduct further investigation if the report seems incomplete.\ The SAC will then make a final determination on the recommen- dation ofthe Team. If a group believes the SAC is at fault in their determination, they may petition the SAC for re- consideration, or appeal the de- cision to the President of the Col- lege. Evaluation is a Compromise According to Nate Coffin, a student member of the SAC, some members of the Gmelch committee still believe in enforc- ing the Middle States' suggestion that only coed housing be avail- able on the campus. Such regu- lations would eliminate on-cam- pus fraternities. On the opposite end of the spectrum, Coffin explains, some students who attended the public Colltinued on Page 3 Scaife Takes Science on the Road by Elissa Hecker Colltributing Writer Professor Charles Scaife, of the Chemistry Department, is on a half year sabbatical in order to promote science as an intriguing subject among elementary stu- dents. Scaife teaches a wide ar- ray of programs that involve ex- periences with many creative ex- periments. The object of his project is to encourage adminis- trators, teachers, and parents to work together in order to stimu- late student interest in scientific discoveries through creative measures. This goal will be achieved by both improving upon and expanding already ex- isting participatory experiments, which will give students hands- on opportunities to discover the many facets science has to offer. As a member of the American Chemical Society National Com- mittee for Pre-High School Sci- ence, Professor Scaife has made numerous comprehensive pre- sentations to schools both locally and regionally. In response to such presentations, parents and teachers approached him with interests in furthering science among their children. However, he found that such enthusiasm was often mixed with apprehen- sion caused, by self-doubt or a lack of scientific knowledge. Many people were frustrated with Co11tinued 011 Page 4

' ; , I . '' April 7, 1994, page 2 NEWS UNION COLLEGE CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY INCIDENT SUMMARY MONDAY, MARCH 28, l994.THROUGH SUNDAY. APRIL 3.1994 DATE/TIME LOCATION MONDAY. MARCH 28,1994: 12:45 AM Steinmetz 9:45 AM Arts Building 10:30 AM West Lot 11:20 AM 1:10PM 2:50PM 5:13PM ll:OOPM Fox/Davidson Lot Campus Area West College Raymond House Achilles Lot TUESDAY, MARCH 29. 1994: 1:57AM Fox South 7:00 AM . Alexander Lane 9:40AM Raymond Lot 11:15 AM Fox/Davidson Lot 2:00PM Fieldhouse 6:15PM Webster House WEDNESDAY. MARCH 30,1994: 4:00AM Hickok House with I 1:20AM A.D. Phi Lot 4:00PM Arts Building THURSDAY. MARCH 31. 1994: . 12:2S PM . . Chi Psi FRIDAY, APRIL 1. 1994: . 2:15AM 27 North TetTace 8:40 AM D~ttch Elollow 5: 18 PM Bronner House 1 0:52 PM College Center SATURDAY. APRIL 2, 1994: 12:18 AM North College 8:00 AM Hickok Honse Notice 11:20 AM 9:02PM College Center West College SUNDAY. APRIL 3, 1994: 9:55 AM Arts Building 1 :50 PM College Center Area 2:45PM Psi Upsilon INCIDENT VANDALISM: Wall clock damaged. TRESPASS: Una\tthorized forced entry into classroom. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized-Un- registered repeat violator-Freshman. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized-Un- registered repeat violator~Freshman. LOST PROPERTY: Student lost wallet-Recovered. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Tampering with room smoke detector. Violation Notice filed. RECKLESS ENDANGERMENT/CRIMINAL MIS- CHIE'F: Student shooting paint balls at passing cars- SPD involved~Conduct charges filed. SAFEtY HAZARD: Sink hole in parking lot-caused by steam leak. VANDALISM:· Lounge window broken. SAFETY HAZARD: Storm drain cover removed . PARKING VIOLAtiON: Vehicle towed. Unregis- tered repeat violator. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized. Un registered repeat violator. Freshman. SAFETY HAZARD: Laundry room dryer-belt guard problem, HARASSMENT: Juvenile visitors verbally harassing students-identified and wa111ed off calli pus. VANDALISM/SECURITY HAZARD: Tampering entrance door panic bar. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized. Un reg~stered repeat violator. THEFT: Advisory sign stolen from perfonning arts stu dio. THEFT: Stereo speaker stolen. VANDALISM: Broken windows. SAFETY HAZARD: Access to clean/change air filters. HARASSMENT: Obscene telephone calls. THEFT: Student's wallet stolen. FIRE ALARM: Caused by 'heat from dryers. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Fire extinqguisher dis- charged and removed from building. Violation filed. THEFT/SAFETY HAZARD: Fire extinguisher stolen. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Odor ofmarijuana reported- confirmed. TRESPASS: Unauthorized entry into building. THEFT/SAFETY HAZARD: Cover for manhole stolen. SAFETY HAZARD: Electrical wires exposed- work order filed. Accepted Students' Day This Monday In This Issue by Rawson Thurber Coucordiensis Staff This Monday, Aprill t th, there will be some new faces on the Union College campus. Who is it you ask? The Bee Gees making a surprise guest appearance in lovely Schenectady? Scott Norwood on his, \Hey Life Goes On\ World Tour? 1l1e Bay Watch babes complete with tight fight- ing swim wear? No, nope, and I wish. This Monday, the llth, ai1d the following Monday, the 18th, there will be accepted students touring Union College. l11ey'~e here to try and make the important deci- sion about their future. Will it be Southwest Arkansas State Bible College or the home ofthe mighty Dutchmen? Only they can decide. Since knowing is half the battle, make sure to tell any accepted stu- dent you see trodding the boards of our hallowed College Center that the weather is always great, the food is first rate, and Hamilton Hill is where everyone hangs out on Friday night. But seriously, these students are considering Union, which is one of the best schools in the ua- tion as their possible .future home away from home. So if you see any perspective students walking arounddon't hesitate to introduce ymtrself and tell them what you enjoy most about Union. After all our reputatiofbis on the line. News. . ................ , .............. 2 -4 ... Editorial ......................... 6 Letters ................... e·· ••••••• 7 Features ..................... 8-1 0 Arts ....................... , ... 1 1 ~ 12 · s.cience .......................... i 3 Personals ............. ., ....... 14 Sports ...................... 15-16 ,.,

April 7, 1994, page 2 The B~logy -Chi~ ~ni' ~. 2 ... ..,.,~ ... r\':meJu: WATCH '94 in Provinceta\W:. Sunday May I. Leave Siiti~trruht ,m(Jmblg;, noon and evening f'ree1 4 Fleet on Sunday morning~ . early Sut\day ilvening;· Price . wat~h. Make yotir ··n· :servanons Office (S&E $324).- Payment · time ofres~rvaiion. Join us for · on tlle Cape! Be prepared for a ra· ttitastit:i)tdvti;JJtfJite.- . . Union CoBeg., Oe~rt,Ut~nt of Bioto:gitat ogy Depamnent~d]libluiJy Clubp~ent termiltation of 'nlr~lif\)iri :f;iomple:xes,\ by . Department Uriiotl'C6tret~~'Tburs~y,, t\prll· · Sdenees Room ·1{}3~ · ·§ ·· ' · · Review Committee Formed: ducting a reappoi.nttitent reView····.· .... hers of the campus comniunity .. ing. researob or college servrce are'm1titei the committee in care pfProf. JayNewmtatt ·' ~· The Visual Arts DeP!frbrten~ · . · view of Prof. <:litis 00t1¢an. who bave knowledge uf ms tea invited to forward comments Martin Benjamin, department an~ ¢'! ·O:Tnllltfttiite The Visual Am Del)a.•·trat~J}t i:s ~,~~~f~~~ view of Prof. Louisa Mattllew. ·· nity wbo have krl<iklooc¢ of: · Union. OJllege tu host $tat~' ~omvetliWn) o:l f:.N;~ii~'tl#~ 6elttftl!l~,.. pby Bee on AprltSih. Uie~prJ:~·l·i-ltl. · :t.n ,·al .ry.·m\1. ltd$~\~!titlu ate·ctose~~v-1 begin at I :30PM. Fftiafsand;t·li H·~ 4w;atdl*eetemtti)n~v;,,~~,Hld\hatift:~Q1P~tf to the public, will~gin at:S PMktn'M~l'f!Oifiat:;Qft;at'¢1. Help support the figb.t against Can-cer!, Register today a1tdtP\' morrow for Tri~Pelta 1 s eighth annual Jail and-B'ait Arrest your professors, friends, and eoHeabrues for only $2.6{), PrlzeswUlbe awarded following the event. Arrests will take- place on1hurs~ay, · Aptill4 and Friday, April 15. NEWS UNION COLLEGE CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY INCIDE:NT SUMMARY MONDAY, MARCH 28, 1994 THROUGH SUNDAY, APRIL 3, 1994 DATEffiME LOCATION MONDAY. MARCH 28.1994: 12:45 AM Steinmetz 9:45 AM Arts BuiMing 10:30 AM West Lot 11:20 AM 1:10PM 2:50PM 5:13PM II :00 PM Fox/Davidson Lot Campus Area West College Raymond House AchiHes Lot TUESDAY, MARCH 29, 1994: I :57 AM Fox South 7:00 AM Alexander Lane 9:40 AM Raymond Lot II: 15 AM Fox/Davidson Lot 2:00PM Fieldhouse 6:15PM Webster House WEDNESDAY. MARCH 30, 1994: 4:00 AM Hickok House with II :20 AM A.D. Phi Lot 4:00PM Arts Building THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 1994: 12:25 PM Chi Psi FRIDAY. APRIL 1. 1994: 2:15 AM 27 North Terrace 8:40 AM Dutch Hollow 5: 18 PM Bronner House I 0:52 PM CoJlege Center SATURDAY. APRIL 2. 1994: 12:18 AM North College 8:00AM Hickok House Notice 11:20 AM 9:02PM College Center West College SUNDAY, APRIL 3, 1994: 9:55 AM Arts Building I :50 PM College Center Area 2:45PM Psi Upsilon INCIDENT VANDALISM: Wall clock damaged. TRESPASS: Unauthorized forced entry into classroom. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized-UH- registered repeat violator-Freshman. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobiJized-UB- registered repeat violator-Freshman. LOST PROPERTY: Student lost waHet-Recovered. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Tampering with room snwke detector. Violation Notice filed. RECKLESS ENDANGERMENT/CRIMINAL MIS- CHIEF: Student shooting paint baUs at passing cars- SPD involved-Conduct charges filed. SAFETY HAZARD: Sink hole in parking lot-caused by steam leak. VANDALISM: Lounge window broken. SAFETY HAZARD: Storm drain cover removed. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle towed. Unregis- tered repeat violator. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized. Un registered repeat violator. Freshman. SAFETY HAZARD: Laundry room dryer-belt guard problem. HARASSMENT: Juvenile visitors verbally harassing students-identified and wamed off campus. VANDALISM/SECURITY HAZARD: Tampering entrance door panic bar. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized. Un registered repeat violator. THEFT: Advisory sign stolen from perfonning arts stu dio. THEFT: Stereo speaker stolen. VANDALISM: Broken windows. SAFETY HAZARD: Access to clean/change air filters. HARASSMENT: Obscene telephone calls. THEFT: Student's wallet stolen. FIRE ALARM: Caused by heat from dryers. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Fire extinqgtlisher dis- charged and removed from building. Violation filed. THEFT/SAFETY HAZARD: Fire extinguisher stolen. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Odor of marijuana repolied- confinned. TRESPASS: Unauthorized entry into building. THEFT/SAFETY HAZARD: Cover for manhole stolen. SAFETY HAZARD: Electrical wires exposed- work order filed. Accepted Students' Day This Monday In This Issue by Rawson Thurber Concordiensis Staff This Monday, April 11th, there will be some new faces on the Union College campus. Who is it you ask? The Bee Gees making a surprise guest appearance in lovely Schenectady? Scott Norwood on his, \Hey Life Goes On\ World Tour? l11e Bay Watch babes complete with tight fight- ing swim wear? No, nope, and I wish. This Monday, the II th, and the following Monday, the 18th, there will be accepted students touring Union College. TI1ey're here to try and make the important deci- sion about their future. Will it be Southwest Arkansas State Bible College or the home of the mighty Dutchmen? Only they can decide. Since knowing is half the battle, make sure to tell any accepted stu- dent you see trodding the boards of our hallowed College Center that the weather is always great, the food is first rate, and Hamilton Hill is where everyone hangs out on Friday night. But seriously, these students are considering Union. which is one of the best schools in the na- tion as their possible future home away from home. So if you see any perspective students walking around don't hesitate to introduce yourself and tell them what you enjoy most about Union. After all our reputatiOll:is on the line. News ........................... 2-4 Editorial ......................... 6 Letters ............................ 7 Features ..................... 8-1 0 Arts .......................... 1 1-12 Science ......................... 13 Personals ...................... 14 Sports ...................... 15-16

,., 1\..Tv.w: .. , ·s· .. .1-~, .FJ.- ,' ' Ap.ril7, ··1994, page 3 Student Forum.Sp.otlight By S.eth Brow;n. Student Forum Secretary Homosexual Couple to Speak This Evening_ On Thursday, March 31, the Forum had their first meeting of spring tenn. TI1e main issue of this meeting was the SAC's proposal in.· evaluating special interes't housing~\ Barry Smith and'Jo·hn Marin cola ofthe committee were present to clear up any questions .• which the forun'i had. The· prO}losal'is to evaluate the special inter .. est housing in three steps: 1 )theself.evaluation step, in which each house will evaluate itself, 2)~he group evaluation step in which a . team of students, a faculty member, and an administrator will evaJu,. ate the house under review; and 3)the SA~ evaluation which win. tie these two together. At this tin1e the SAC will recommend to the President of the college either a one, two, or three year renewal, or a non-renewal. At this meeting, the representatives from the SAC reiterated that the self evaluation process is by far the most important and wil1 carry the most weight in the final decision. The Student Forum . agreed that the evaluation process is a good idea and passed the SAC evaluation procedure with the intention that bylaws will be written-to specify the original intent of the process. With Student Fort~m electrons approaching rapidly, the idea re-. surfaced of making a new position on the forum. TI1is new posi- tion would be in cllarge of campus planning and social life on campus. A proposal is in the work and will be voted on during our next meeting, In addition, petitions will be available starting on April 15 for the following fomm positions: President, V.P. of Academics, V.P. of Administration, V.P. of Finance, and Junior Class Representative to the Board of Trustees. l11is will be due on April22 and elections will take place on April29. Class represen- tative elections will follow shortly after. The fonim would like to reiterate that almost all of our meetings are open to the public. They are l;~ld Thursdays at 6:00 in the student forum room (4th floor of the College Center). Please see your class representatives if you have any questions. Furthennore. the social committee is looking for students to help in the planning ofSpringfest '94. These meetings are held on Wednesdays at 2:30 in room 204 of the colleg~ center. ASSOCIATE DEAN OF FACULTY I.E.F, DEADLINE by Caroline Paine News Editor Bob and Rod Jackson-Paris will be speaking on \Love Against the Odds\ at 7:30 Jim, this evening, in the CoHege Cen.., ter auditorium. Bob, a former Mr. America and Mr. Universe and Rod, top male model, will be spe~king on gay and human rights and the alternativ.e l.ife styles that are present in today' s society. Bob Paris and Rod Jackson went 'against all odds' when they fell in love and were maJTied in a gay Unitarian church ·service in 1989. Their step \out of the closet\ was a big risk, for they publicly announced their union and joi-ned their names. at the height of their careers. Presently they have become champions for Gay rights and appear frequently on TV, videos, and speak on col- lege and high school lecture tours. They have made appear- ances on ''Oprah Winfrey Show,\ \Donahue and the \Joan Riv- ers Show.\ They are also the au- thors of the 'coffee table' book, Duo, that shows the couple nude on a beach, and are the subject of the biography, 1J1e Stntggle for Gay and /,e.\·hian i~'qual Rif!,hls. SCIENCE.AND ENGINEERING CEI'ITER SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK 12308·2311 (518) 388·6233 The deadline for proposals for the Internal Education Foundation in two categories -- student- initiated research projects and \educationally innovative projects\ is May 12, 1994. Proposals for student-initiated research projects must have the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be submitted to the Dean's Office (SlOO, Science & Engineering B~ilding) on forms available there. Similarly, members of the College community who have \educationally innovative\ proposals should submit them to the same office on forms available there. Forms for Faculty Research Projects. are also available in tlie Dean's Office (SlOO). Guidelines with respect to the I.E.F. are available in the Dean's Office. Inquiries about I.E.F., the guidelines, or the proposal deadline should be directed to Margaret Dalton, Administrative Assistant to the Acting Dean of Arts & Sciences. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $50-85 per day. Transportation costs should also reflect the best rate& available. Students ~ho are planning to do interviews must indicate that arrangements have already been made. If your research includes work with human subjects, then the proposal must have preliminary approval from the Human Subjects Research Committee before it can be funded by the Subcouncil on Undergraduate Research. ************************************************ FACULTY RESEARCH DEADLINE The Faculty Development Committee is now soliciting proposals for faculty research and scholarship activities. Applications and guidelines are available in Dean Weiner's Office (S-100, S&E). The deadline for submission of proposals is May 12, 1994. Questions concerning the Faculty Research Fund should be directed to Dean Weiner. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $50-85 per day. Transportation should also reflect the best rates available. If your research includes work with human subjects, then the proposals must have preliminary approval from the Human Subjects Research Conunittee before it can be funded by the Faculty Development Committee. TI1e Jackson-Paris couple will relate the story of their union and explain their individual histories during their lecture this evening. In alternate sections, they will de- scribe their first meeting and dis- cuss some of the difficulties they were confronted with when they announced their love for each other, both in a professional and personnel sense. \Love Against the Odds\ is the first in the Diversity Lecture Se- ries for the spring tenn. . EV:alu~t~~ns. Ap·prove<l-continuedfrom page 1 meeti~g ori the Evalitation Plan are community in drafting the Evalu- opposed to the SACs prop~sal be- ation. cause they believe \the administra- Evolution of the Evaluation tion will exert too much influence In 1990, the Middle States, re- over the committee.\ sponsib]e for the accreditation of The Plan which received the Union College, suggested that all approval of the Student Forum in- campus housing be. made coed. volves a \reconciliation between President Roger Hull appointed these different views.\ according a subcommittee to evaluate \the to Coffin. . freshman year and the residen- During the process of passing tiallife system for all students at the proposal, some students were Union.\ concerned that the Team would In July of 1991, the President's have too large an influence on the Committee for the Improvement evaluation process. Smith points of Residential Life issued the out that two of the four members Gmelch Report. The Gmelch of the Team are students confirmed Report disagreed with the recom- by the SAC, which itself has a rna- men dation of the Middle States, jority of students. Additionally. and suggested eradicating some According to Smith, the SAC de- of the shortcomings of residen- signed the plan so that the Self tial life by implementing theme Study evaluation is considerably houses. According to Smith, the more important than the Team committee intended to provide \a evaluation. range of choices for students.\ Similarly, Coffin stipulates, On April6, 1992, the SAC, in members of the Gmelch commit- response to the Gmelch Report, tee can be satisfied that the passage adopted 14 policies for the im- ofthe legislation represents \a radi- provement of Residential Life. cal change because it forces the The Student Forum approved college and on-campus groups to these policies two days later. take a look at what they're doing.\ lluee weeks after the Fonnn 's According to Smith, \the fact approval, President Hull passed that the college began to value that 11 of the 14 policies for imple- Jeaming experiences are not exclu- mentation. sive to the classroom,\ was instm- 1l1e SAC still had to fonnu- mental to the passage of the pro- late a \Procedure for Review of cedure. Additionally, members of Organized Residential Groups.\ the college community realized The Committee worked on this that \students' perfonnance in the procedure during the winter and classroom are influenced by the spring terms of 1993. quality ofresidentiallife.\ On March 2, 1994, the SAC Coffin attributes the near-unani- unanimously approved the pro- mous approval of the Student Fo- cedure. One day later an open nnn as an indication that the SAC fomm meeting was called so that took into consideration the con- students could ask questions and ~ems of all members of the Union comment on the procedure.

NEWS April 7, 1994, page 3 Student Forum Spotlight By Seth Brown Student Forum Secretary Homosexual Couple to Speak This Evening On Thursday, March 31, the Forurn had their first meeting of spring tenn. The main issue of this meeting was the SAC's proposal in evaluating special interest housing: Barry Smith and John Marincola of the committee were present to clear up any questions which the forum had. The proposal is to evahmte the special inter- est housing in three steps: I )the self evaluation step, in which each house will evaluate itself, 2)the group evaluation step in which a team of stt1dents, a faculty member, and an administrator will evalu- ate the house under review, and 3)the SAC evaluation which will tie these two together. At this time the SAC will recommend to the President of the college either a one, two, or three year renewal, or a non-renewal. At this meeting, the representatives from the SAC reiterated that the self evaluation process is by far the most important and will carry the most weight in the final decision. The Student Forum agreed that the evaluation process is a good idea and passed the SAC evaluation procedure with the intention that bylaws will be written to specify the original intent of the process. With Student Forum elections approaching rapidly, the idea re- surfaced of making a new position on the forum. This new posi- tion would be in charge of campus planning and social life on campus. A proposal is in the work and will be voted on during our next meeting. In addition. petitions will be available starting on April 15 for the following forum positions: President. V.P. of Academics. V.P. of Administration. V.P. of Finance. and Junior Class Representative to the Board of Trustees. This will be due on April :2:2 and elections will t:-tke pl:-~ce on /\prii2<J. Class represen- 1 tative elections \viii follmv shortly after. i The fonun would I ike to reiterate that almost all of our meetings an.: open to the public. They are held Thursdays at 6:00 in the student forum room (4th floor of the College Center). Please see your class representatives if you have any questions. Futihennore. the social committee is looking for students to help in the planning ofSpringfest '94. These meetings are held on Wednesdays at 2:.30 in room 204 of the college center. by Caroline Paine News Editor Bob and Rod Jackson-Paris will be speaking on \Love Against the Odds\ at 7:30 pm, this evening, in the College Cen- ter auditoriurn. Bob, a former Mr. America aud Mr. Universe and Rod, top male model, will be speaking on gay and human rights and the alternative life styles that are present in today' s society. Bob Paris and Rod JacksoN went 'against all odds' when they fell in love and were married in a gay Unitarian church service in 1989. Their step \out of the closet\ was a big risk, for they publicly announced their union and joined their names at the height of their careers. Presently they have become champions for Gay rights and appear frequently on TV. \ ideos. and speak on col- lege and high school lecture tows. The: ha\ c.: made appear- ances on ··oprah Winfrey Show.\' \'Donahue.\ and the '\Joan Ri\- ers Show.\' They are also the au- thors of the ·coffee table' book. I )uo. that shows the couple nude on a beach. and are the subject of the biography. the Struggle for ( iay and f.eshian /:'qual Rights UNION e COLLEGE ASSOCIATE DEAN OF FACULTY I.E.F. DEADLINE SCIENCE A:\-ID ENGINEERING CENTER SCHENECTADY, :\-lEW YORK !2308-ZI!I 1'18) 388-6ZH The deadline for proposals for the Internal Education Foundation in two categories -- student- initiated research projects and \educationally innovative projects\ is May 12. 1994. Proposals for student-initiated research projects must have the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be submitted to the Dean's Office (S 100, Science & Engineering Building) on forms available there. Similarly, members of the College community who have \educationally innovative\ proposals should submit them to the same office on forms available there. Forms for Faculty Research Projects are also available in the Dean's Office (SlOO). Guidelines with respect to the I.E.F. are available in the Dean's Office. Inquiries about I.E.F., the guidelines, or the proposal deadline should be directed to Margaret Dalton, Administrative Assistant to the Acting Dean of Arts & Sciences. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $50-85 per day. Transportation costs should also reflect the best rates available. Students ~ho are planning to do interviews must indicate that arrangements have already been made. If your research includes work with human subjects, then the proposal must have preliminary approval from the Human Subjects Research Committee before it can be funded by the Subcouncil on Undergraduate Research. ************************************************ FACULTY RESEARCH DEADLINE The Faculty Development Committee is now soliciting proposals for faculty research and scholarship activities. Applications and guidelines are available in Dean Weiner's Office (S-100, S&E). The deadline for submission of proposals is May 12, 1994. Questions concerning the Faculty Research Fund should be directed to Dean Weiner. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $50-85 per day. Transportation should also reflect the best rates available. If your research includes work with human subjects, then the proposals must have preliminary approval from the Human Subjects Research Committee before it can be funded by the Faculty Development Committee. TI1e Jackson-Paris couple will relate the story of their union and explain their individual histories during their lecture this evening. In altemate sections. they will de- scribe their first meeting and dis- cuss some of the difficulties they \\ere confronted with\\ hen they announced their love for each other. both in a professional and personnel sense. \Love Against the Odds\' is the first in the Diversity Lecture Se- ries for the spring tenn. Evaluations Approved Contbwedfrom page 1 meeting on the Evaluation Plan are opposed to the SACs proposal be- cause they believe \the administra- tion will exert too much influence over the committee.\ The Plan which received the approval of the Student Forum in- volves a \reconciliation between these different views.\ according to Coffin. During the process of passing the proposal. some students were concerned that the Team \\.mild h;1\e too large an influence on the evaluation process. Smith points out that two of the four members of the ream are students con tinned by the SAC. which itself has a ma- jority of students. Additionally. According to Smith. the SAC de- signed the plan so that the Self Study evaluation is considerably more important than the Team evaluation. Similarly, Coffin stipulates, members of the Gmelch commit- tee can be satisfied that the passage of the legislation represents \a radi- cal change because it forces the college and on-campus groups to take a look at what they're doing.\ According to Smith. \the fact that the college began to value that Jeaming experiences are not exclu- sive to the classroom,\ was instm- mental to the passage of the pro- cedure. Additionally, members of the college community realized that \students' perfonnance in the classroom are influenced by the quality of residential life.\ Coffin attributes the near-tmani- mous approval of the Student Fo- rum as an indication that the SAC took into consideration the con- cems of all members of the Union community in drafting the Evalu- ation. Evolution of the Evaluation In !990, the Middle States. re- sponsible for the accreditation of Union College. suggested that all campus housing be made coed. President Roger Hull appointed a subcommittee to evaluate \the freshman year and the residen- tial life system for all students at Union.\' In July of I <)<JJ, the President\s Committee for the Impro\cmcnt of Residential Life issued the Gmelch Report. The Gmelch Repoti disa!,>reed \Vith the recom- mendation of the Middle States. and suggested eradicating some of the shortcomings of residen- tial life by implementing theme houses. According to Smith. the committee intended to provide \a range of choices for students.\ On April 6, 1992. the SAC. in response to the Gmelch Report. adopted 14 policies for the i m- provement of Residential Life. The Student Forum approved these policies two days later. TI1ree weeks after the Forum's approval, President Hull passed 11 of the 14 policies for imple- mentation. l11e SAC still had to fonnu- late a \Procedure for Review of Organized Residential Groups.\ TI1e Committee worked on this procedure during the winter and spring tenns of 1993. On March 2, 1994, the SAC unanimously approved the pro- cedure. One day later an open forum meeting was called so that students could ask questions and comment on the procedure.

' ' I ',t ) ' t I I I I I l I ~ April7, 1994, page.·4 photo by F. Jeremy SmithffC Yulman Construction Delayed by Larry Paska Cimcordiensis Staff The completion of the Yulman Theater will be delayed due to setbacks in con.~truction. According to Construction Project Manager ,Steve Lamp, the project fell behind for two rea- sons. \It was difficult to work during the hard winter we had, and there was a slight problem with the structural design, which was corrected. Also, the quality of the concrete blocks sent to the site fell below specifications.\ The test. batch of concrete blocks that was shipped for the construction proved to be of the proper quality. The second batch was not up to the specifications. The design was reviewed, and was determined to be satisfac- tory. Still, an additional rein- forcement of the walls is needed. While the delays have. cost the project three months, it is ex- pected that two month's worth of work will be made up over the summer. \We are hoping for the theater to be completed on October 1, 1994,\ Lamp said. NEWS Professor ofthe Week AU Abootalebi by MiChelle Ellis Concordiensis Staff Professor Ali Abootalebi is an outstanding political science pro- fessor. Abootalebi is a visiting professor who has excited stu- dents in the subject of political theory. He captivates his students by combining his energy and pas- sion fot political science in the classroom. He encourages student debates in order to give life to the often monotonous tenns, dates, and facts. Abootalebi, originally from Iran, focuses his research on the lesser developed countries and the Middle East. He came to the United States i.n 1977, and has .actively pursued a career in edu- cation. He received a Ph.D. and Masters from Arizona State Uni- versity .and a second Masters from the University of Washington, at Seattle. Abootalebi has been teaching for seven years. During the time he spent at Arizona, he was awarded two distinguishing honors. In 1991, he was acknowl- edged as the most outstanding graduate teaching assistant by the Faculty of Social and Behavioral Sciences. In addition, he received the FLAS Scholru:ship (Foreign Language and Area Studies Scholarship) in 1988-89. Abootalebi is very knowledge- able about the democratization of developing countries and he has a keen interest intthe politics of the Middle East. He is currently conducting research and offering classes in these two areas of thought. In accordance with his research, Abootalebi is an advo- cate of Internationalism and he maintains that people everywhere photo by F. Jeremy Smith/TC truly have more in common with one another than they might think. \Despite my cynical views of world politics, I personally be- lieve that Internationalism is the key to world peace, as National- ism has proven to be detrimental to inter-communal and inter-state affairs over and over again.\ Abootalebi admits that he has a cynical perception of world politics, however he counteracts his cynicism by advocating inter- nationalism and by supporting the global human rights organization Amnesty International. Professor Abootalebi truly en- joys teaching Union students. He cam€ to Union College confident in Union's reputable academic standing. He bas comfortably ad- justed to the political science de- partment and its friendly and pro- fessional environment. Should he be 'given the opportunity to stay at Union, he most definitely would choose to remain at this institution. Professor Charle~ Scaife is, \On the,RoadAgain\ . .::. ': • • '. • .... £- ' ,.. ! .. . Continued from page 1 the different state systems of sci- entific requirements or were ner- vous about teaching methods. In a memorandum to adminis- trators, teachers, and parents, Pro- fessor Scaife stated that, \I be- lieve that I can help, not by the most common approach of writ- ing and testing curricular materi- als or by running courses at Union College, but rather by on-site per- sonal example which can convey my enthusiasm along with some possible approaches for teachers and parents to try... I believe that the need for stimulating an inter- est in science for elementary stu- dents is so important nationally that I am prepared to spend half a year sabbatical leave from Union College on this effort.\ Professor Scaife also men- tioned in his memorandum that, \I plan on constructing starter kits of household chemicals and equipment that I can leave with each school as well as to serve as a resource person after my visit. In addition, I would like ... to in- volve a local high school science teacherin some of the workshops so that there is. also a nearby re- source person ... \ One of Professor Scaife's pri- mary goals is to '' ... provide ideas for and.build confidence in teach- ers and parents so that they can do more hands-on science activi- ties with and introduce more sci- ence content to their students and children.\ The methods used include demonstration workshops, to in- struct teachers how to organize and successfully conduct hands- on activities and conclude with follow-up meetings in which teachers make presentations to colleagues. Also individual meet- ings are provided, for those with additional questions. After initial training, both Professor Scaife and the home instructors present lessons in classroom situations, where students actively partici- pate in hands-on experiments. Evening workshops are also or- ganized. They focus on both the students and their parents to pro- mote experimentation in home. The workshops and class sessions cover such topics as chemistry, biology, geology and physics. Trish Curtis, Teaching Princi- pal of the Hebron Elementary School· in Hebron, Maine, has worked with Professor Scaife in organizing evening workshops for her district and is an active parent participating with her daughter. \It was exceptionally well done, extremely organized. He knew just what to do, to make things run smoothly for the fami- lies,\ said Curtis. \There was an extremely l~ge turnout, as we have a small school population of 65 students ... and over 80 parents and children were in attendance ... so many things went well, he walked around and helped when needed, but he had prepared worksheets that parents followed with their children .. .' 1 There was, however, some negative feedback concerning the program at Hebron Elementary. ••Many parents without strong science backgrounds could not explain why things happened. They performed the experiments, but when asked what made them work could respond only,. 'Well, I just don't know why .. .'\ This, Ms. Curtis explained, was a wide- spread complaint. \But we did have the families fill out evalua- tions and they wete extremely positive ... \ Professor Scaife has formu- lated numerous lessons which in- corporatethe ecology, electricity,· flight, gravity, light, magnets, .nutrition, pressure, simple ma- chines, sound, temperature, the weather, astronomy, changes .in matter, and color changes into workshops, lesson plans, and fun activities. Each topic has a number of workshops with attractive, curi- ous titles, such as \The Invincible Balloon,\ in which bamboo skewers are inserted into an in- flated balloon, or the \Soda Bottle SymphQny,\ which through the use of a vibrating meter stick and a slinky, helps illustrate both the audio and visual concepts of sound waves. An activity entitled \Canned Constellations,\ is pre- sented as \constellations from another point of view,\ in that \stars from the constellation Orion are suspended from a piece of cardboard to show that they are not in a .single plane as they ap- pear in the sky and would look very different from a different angle.\ An example of a parent- chitd experiment is the \Wonderwhirler where students create and observe the various flight patterns of a helicopter, composed ofpaper and a paper clip. :All activities are equipped with quirky names and easily fol- lowed directions. Thus far, Professor Scaife has visited and set up such prowams in New York, Maine, and Ver- mont among other states. With Union paying his salary and grant money assisting with the price of chemicals, he is providing hisser- vice to communities at no cost to the schools. Scaife plans to con- tinue this program until June 15th, when his sabbatical concludes. NEWS NEEDS WRITERS CALL. CAROLINE AT5851 FOR MO.RE INFORMADON.

\ AND NO #2 PEN:CI·LS REQUIRED. THIS DEFINITELY ISN'T Put your photo on the card, and replace mary important documents~ A TEST. In fact, it's just simple it's harder for anyone else to use SE-CURE YOUR PURCHASES, math. You get the it. Lost your too. With Citibank Price Protection Citibank Classic wallet? Well, you'll always pay the best price. carcj, arid then don't worry. And Buyers Security protects your YOU PAY NO Our Lost purchases from theft. accidental AN·NUAL FEE. Wallet 5 M Service damage, or fire? When you Zippo. Add that to a very is there to provide you with think of it, getting a Citibank competitive 15.4% variable annual EMERGEN·CY card could very well percentage rate• and you've got CASH, a new be the easiest a great deal. You don't have to be card usually addition you'll a calculus major to figure that out within 24 hours, do this year. And it's easy to see, you're secure. and even help you NO QUESTION. Our insomniacs are waiting for you with all the answers. WE'RE LOOKI·NG OUT FOR YOU:\

I· f ~ i f ., i ! • ' ' t f i \ I f ' April7, 1994, page 6 Go Team! Evaluation Will Help Community . The Student Affairs Council and the Student Forum deserve com- mendation for the passage of the Housing Evaluation Proposal last week. The Forum's ratification represents a historic moment . for Union College because the student body, the administration, • and the faculty have all come to realize that there is a strong rela- · tionship between residential life' and academics. The Evaluation is a means for all members of the college community to gain a · better understanding of the correlation between donn life or the social atmosph~re at Union and the learning which takes pl(lce · here. More importantly, however, .the passage of.the proposal is en- couraging because perhaps the Student Forum, the faculty, and the administration have found the right ingredients for taking a good idea, thoroughly researching the topic, and developing a .. policy which may be somewhat palatable to all of the parties .in- volved. The development of the Evaluation process indicates ideologi- • cal compromises on the fundamental purposes of Union College. During their four year stay at Union, students are expected to be challenged intellectually, athletically, and socially. There are mc:ny · debates on the importance of each ·of these components to stu- . dents' overall development. Colleges and Universities are defined as institutions at which higher learning takes place, specifically in relation to academics. The primary responsibility of the faculty · and administration should be to provide an environment in which students can expand their knowledge and improw their reasoning skills. Maybe the overwhelming acceptance of this evaluation process by student leaders is an indication that students are be- : coming more aware of the importance of receiving an academic college education. While student organizations will attempt to become more aware of whether they are fulfilling their own criterion for f;':xistence, fac- ulty members seem to have accepted that there are many social · benefits from student social organizations. In helping to create the evaluation, some members of the faculty aiJ.d admi\;stration have indicated that they will be more open-minded when looking at the achiev~ments of social organizations. Perhaps the administration has learned that implementing a new system requires more than a quick decision process in which many students and faculty are left in the dark. Perhaps there will be mor.e commun.ity. between .students, fac- ulty, and the administration in future years if this evaluation pro- cess forces everyone to learn more about other people. This is a good first step in any event. the Conc()rdiensis meets ~v~ :Mon~y an¢t1:tle$~l~y:Qft:b:~·::~e,~!( ~ demio year. It 1~ ,pl(blished by the stud~nts ()'1 ·; .. l .1·t ·.u. ·< ·1ft/()tiU~ge ~~~, in uo way reflects the opinions of··tfnit:ln Cl;)ll~ge. · . I CM'T iAU IT MYfi\lt£ ... 11'5 PJUVING ~· INSMf· ... ! 1!5 'RME 10 1AKE . ~TION·...! Letters to the Editor·: Response to a Misund_erstanding • About Introduction to Geology Course To the Editor: I would like to respond to Mr. Wintsch, Class of '95, concerning access to the Introductory Geol- ogy course. His description is cor- rect up to-the point where he dis- cusses the present term, and his third exclusion from the course. However, he apparently misun- derstood my explanation, which is understandable considering his state of distress. It is true that when Mr. Wintsch was closed out of the class last fall I tdfd him that he was likely to 'get into the class in the spring term. At the time I knew that Introduc- tory Geology would be offered as an evening class during the win- ter tenn, and I fully expected that many civil engineering students would take it at that time. Indeed, I took pains to inform the faculty in the Civil Engineering Depart- ment to advise their students of the course offering. In the past a num• ber of the 'CE students have availed themselves of the oppor- tunity to take the course as an evening class during the winter. It was my expectation that many would do likewise during the present term. Unfortunately, for reasons unknown to me,. only two students signed up for the course and it was canceled. The result was a large number of CE students (still needing the course) have signed up to take it during the spring term. Since this is a require- ment of the CE major, and a back- ground course of considerable importance for individuals con- templating careers involving de- sign of large-scale construction projects such as dams, bridges, and waste disposal facilities (to name a few):, \I have given prefet- \\ ence to tho.se students in signi~g . up for the course. As Mr. Wintsch related, there are other courses which may be· used for the Gen Ed science requirement, but which are not relevant forCE stu- dents. More than fifty students put their names on a sign-up sheet for a course which is limited to thirty, and perhaps an additional ten stu- dents did not sign up after talk- ing to me. I am delighted at the interest iil geology, and I would like to have all students with an interest be able to take geology courses, but our resources, in terms of facilities and faculty, impose rather severe· limits on what we can do. It took the col- lege four years to give approval to fire the fourth geology faculty member, who will join us in the fall. I had specifically requested this position when I was hired as department chair, because it was clear to me that Union College could not have a quality geology program and teach as many gen- eral education students as was desired by the administration. We have one teaching labora- tory in the geology department. The year I arrived I attempted to rearrange the space to accommo- date a larger lab section, and for one tenn we literally cram~ed students. into the space. I taught that course, and I can assure you that it was edncationally unsound to try to put as many students in that space as was done that tellll. The present course limii$ make sense in tenns of the education Union College students are pay- ing for. Ifwe had larger and bet- ter teaching facilities we could effectively teach larger sections, but without the facilities I choose not to compromise the education of.the students. _ Before I came to Union I was told that the college wanted a quality geo~ogy major, and gen- end education science courses. In the last 5 112 years the geology faculty have done everything in their power to accomplish those goals. The number of geology m~ors has gone from ·1 to 20. The equipment available for student research projects has increased by more than 500 thousa}.ld dollars. Our students have taken field trips~ and/or worked on fi~ld projects across the country. But there are some things over thing over which the faculty has little control. We all recognize. that our physical facilities are abysmal, our ·laboratory and instructional space in grossly inadequate, but we can do little to change that. Unfortunately, it is just those physical constraints that limit ac- cess to our introductory level gen- eral education courses. Perhaps in the future we will have adequate space, but I am afraid that we will all have to live with the present limitations for some time to come. I am sorry that Mr. Wintsch was not able to take the science course he desired. I know all too well that my apology many be considered inadequate, although heartfelt. I am committed to giv- ing as many students as possible the opportunity to study geology. After all, most of our geology major discover they can major in this fascinating field after they take one of the introductory courses. Finally, the \Geology Depart- ment\ does not consider that Mr. Wintsch does \not have a prob- lem\ because he can into another science course. I quite agree with him that an education at Union should include the possibility of exploring his interests, by taking courses of his choosing and by other means. But we are part if the. teal world of limited resources ( \and that is not likely to change) in which choices must be made. Sincerely yours, George H. Shaw Chair, Geology There will be a meeting for all 'interested in writing for the Arts & Entertainment ·section, Monday, April 7th in CC303 at 7 PM.

LETTERS April 7, 1994, Page 7 . ·.. . . . . \ . . Academic Honesty: How To Solve The Problem In an attempt to encourage dialogue regarding academic honesty among members ofthe college community, the Academic Affairs Subcouncil on Academic Honesty and Practice has arranged a series ofletters to be published in The Concordiensis. These letters will present differing perspec- tives on the issue of academic honesty. Included in this series will be two letters addressed to the faculty and two letters addressed to students, with views coming from both ''sides\. In addition, we hope to include a letter from the college's lawyer commenting on a recent case that was handled in court. It is our hope that these letters will offer a variety of viewpoints to which students and faculty can respond. Although these letters will appear in consecutive issues of The Concordiehsis, they were composed concurrently and are not meant to serve as responses to one another. We hope these responses wiH come from you. To my faculty colleagues: When Twas askedto participate in this forum on issues of aca- demic honesty, I made a Jist of things that I thought we, as fac- ulty, could do to lesson the de- gree of academic dishonesty that occurs at Union College. Some of the items on my list were as follows: we should not re-use exam questions (since some stu\' dents and student organizations are known to keep files); we should weigh in-class work (like exams and quizzes) much more than out of class work (like pa- pers and problem sets); we should be more vigilant in searching for evidence of plagiarism and ille- gal collaboration; etc. As my list got longer and longer, I got more and more un- comfortable. I soon realized that the source of my discomfort was that all of the items on my list fell into two categories. They were either attempts to lower the temptations for students to cheat (for example, by less heavily weighing out of class assign- ments), or they were attempts to make us better at catching viola- tors. While these motivations should not be dismissed, there is something very wrong if these become are main thrust in con- fronting academic dishonesty. Although we all must, to some extent, become academic policy, lowering i~centives for dishon- esty and toughening enforcement should not be our primary focus. That is not why we are here. That is not why we entered academia. We entered academia because we love learning. We entered academic because we delight in intdlectual struggle. Why don't we cheat in our academic/profes .. sionallives? It is not for lack of opportunity. For example,~ fre- quently discuss research ideas with my colleagues. We share ideas and try out arguments on each other. we· are often able to offer suggestions, and to catch mistakes. Many ideas get talked about, but never pursued. Why don't I just listen to some ofmy colleagues' ideas, wait a few months until they have forgotten whose ideas· they were, then pur- sue them on my own, ultimately taking credit and never acknowl- edging that the idea was not my own? Some ofmy colleagues do not exactly have world-class memories, and what I describe would be very easy. So, why doesn't this sort of thing happen? Is it because we are somehow morally better than some of our students who cheat? Absolutely! But that is not the only reason, and I think it does not really confront what I think is the centnil issue. We don't cheat because we see oursel~es as part of an intellec- tual community. This community consists of our departmental col- leagues, our colleagues through- out Union College, and our col- leagues who share our research interests at other institutions. l11e goal of this community is to in- crease knowledge, both in our- selves and in our students. This is why ·we are here. Stealing each Spring Special For Visage! 374-0351 other's ideas runs counter to this purpose and this, in addition to moral restraints, i1,1 why we don '.t cheat. So, what does all this tell us about the issue of student aca- demic honesty? It tells us that if students are made to feel part of this .great enterprise of increasing knowledge, if students begin to see this as the reason that they are in college, then they will under- standtimt cheating does not bring them closer to their goal. I know that many people read- ing this will think I am being na- ive. They will think that I do not properly understand the pre~sures and motivations that drive our stu- dents, and that I don't understand the moral deficiencies with which some ofour students enter Union College. Perhaps they are right. I:Iowever, I draw hope from a re- cent conversation with my son. He is not a student at Union, but attends another first-rate, small liberal arts school. I recently dis- cussed the issues of academic horiesty with him, and he told me that students at his school don't cheat. I as~ed him why h;e thought this is so, and he imme- diately replied that students would feel ashamed to cheat. Stu- dents at his school realize that to cheat is to tum from the great in- tellectual goals that are their rea- son for being in col1ege. Let me explore another aspect of this issue. My sense is that, among those students who do cheat, almost none would steal other people's physical property. ·Women's Haircuts ... : ......................... $13 Men's ·················-·······························$·9 Perms ....•........ ~ .................................... $40· Stains ............................................... $25 -with cuts ................................... $3 5 Highlights ....................................... $45 · Manicures ............................ ~ .......... $12 only with Penny, Angela, Melissa, and Beth Effective through April 30, 1994 I think that almost all would re- turn a lost wallet (with all of its contents) to j,ts owner. Why would these same people steal the ideas of others? I think that the answer has to do with a perceived difference in the harm caused in each of these situations. In the case of keeping a lost wallet, and certainly not in the case of steal- ing property, the harm ,caused to another person is ~ompletely dear. TI1e harm caused by aca- demic cheating is not as obvious. Those students who do cheat probably have never considered that cheating is also harmful. I have no doubt that virtually all of our students would never intentionally cause hann to oth- ers. What those who cheat do not realize is that they are causing hann. They are causing hann to the integrity and morale of this intellectual community of which they are part. They are causing hann to their teachers who must spend time and energy being aca- demic police, rather than being intellectuals. And they are cer- tainly causing hann to the honest students who l1ave made it very clear that they are angry and hurt by the behavior of those who cheat. We must make sure that students understand the hann that academic dishonesty causes. How can faculty help to foster an atmosphere in which students see themselves, and we see them, as part of an intellectual commu- nity, a community in which aca- demic dishonesty is seen by all to be harmful? How can we encour- age our students to see that their reason for being at Union is in- tellectual growth? I do not claim to have the answers to these ques- tions,. but I do have some sugges- tions. We should never pass up the opportunity to share with stu- dents the satisfactions of the in- tellectual life. We should try to tell students about our research. We should listen to their ideas. The more we get students in- volved in individual projects with us (such as research and indepen- dent studies), the better they will understand that cheating, besides being morally wrong, distracts us from our goal. Do we need to better academic police? Certainly! We need to think and act on issues such as student plagiarism. We need to watch carefully for cheating dur- ing exams. And, when a violator is caught, we need to take stem action. I don't want a cheater to be part of my intellectual commu- nity. However, if we focus solely on how to catch violators, and if we give up on successful teach- ing methods because we are afraid that student cheaters wi\\ exploit these methods, then we would be making a grave mis- take. Let's. think very seriously about how to create a sense of intellectual community among faculty and students in which aca- demic dishonesty would be shunned by all. Sincerely yours. Julius Barbanel Department of Mathematics -.1R.~47.2~14 Submit Your Letters to The Editor And Opinions To <(Ulye Qinntnrhi£nsis All Letters To The Editors Must Be Submitted By 5 PM The Tuesday Before Publication. All Letters Must Be On Either High Density MAC or IBM Disks. Any Letter Not Submit- . ted On Disk Will Not Be Published.

April 7, 1994, page 8 FEATURES - - ' Schenectady 2000 Needs StudentlnvolvementtoMeet Goals by David Levine Editor-in-chief The Schenectady 2000 project was initiatedalmost one year ago with its intent \to create by the 21st century an environment in Schenectady that will give all Schenectadians pride in the com ... munity, uniquely highlight its assets, attract new businesses and new residents.\ Union College President, Roger HuH, is one of ten local leaders on the Steering Committee. Also on the Steer- ing Committee, is Mirriam Seddiq, Union College Class of 1993. Seddiq is the Administra- tive Director of Schenectady 2000. Hull introduced the Schenectady 2000 Plan to much ofthe Union College community at this year's convocation. Hull believes that, \ ... Schenectady must bloom for Union to thrive.\ Additionally, Union's President indicated that the Schenectady 2000 plan would rely, to a cer- tain degree, on the willingness of Union students to participate in the labor-intensive beautification of Schenectady. Recognizing that rebuildi.ng Schenectady is a long-term project, the members of the Steer- ing Committee hope to create a series of small projects so that participants in the revitalization probrram can see immediate im- provements·: Though current Union students will not be en- rolled at the college by the time the Schenectady 2000 Plan will be completed, they can ·have a definite impact on some of the smaller sub projects which en- compass the larger plan. Many of the projects wh-ich Schenectady 2000 leaders hope to undertake are still in the plan- ning phases and, according to Seddiq, \Union students have the opportunity to become involved in nesses are partly to blame for stu- of the Founders of the Seddiq. Only Union students can the planning ... , Seddiq and Kim dents' attitudes towards Schenectady 2000 project, so I give insight into this question, and Perone, who will succeed Seddiq Schenectady. don't understand why the press 'by joining the planning commit- as the Administrative Director of \Schenectadyis one of the few would run an article titled Union tee for in;tercity transportation Schenectady 2000 in the begin- towns which hasn't catered to the Shuns Schenectady.\ they can help shed light on this ning of May, believe that student college community.\ For ex- Union students should be in- issue. involvement in the r------~-------------~---, volved in changing One area which is of particular projects is crucial for. the image of value to the college community two reasons. Schenectady, and a is Vale Park, a 350 acre park The economic prob-, series of projects are which is only one block away I ems of Schenectady currently in the plan- from the Union campus. Union have increased during · · ning process. Some college owns roughly 1/3 of the the past 20 years, and projects should be of land in the park, yet 'most Union many residents are . particular interest to students aren't aware the park \embarrassed to live in · Union· students, ac- even exists. According to Brian this city,\ according to . . cording to Seddiq. Macherone, co-ehainnan of the Perone. Not only have These projects in- Schenectady 2000 Vale Park 1m- many people moved . elude a plan to rede- provements Committee, Union out of Schenectady, sign the Nott Terrace students will benefit the most but many large compa- area, a proposal to from the improvement of the nies, such as General· develop intercity park Seddiq added that Electric, are having transportation (pQsSi- Schenectady 2000 could benefit problems attracting re- . bly a trolley system), from the involvement of engi- cent college graduates . the cleaning of Vale neering majors at Union in the to work at their Park, and a plan to construction planning for several Schenectady locations. ample, whennewUnionCollege enhance the arts community in ofthe projects. \Schenectady 2000 is a sort oflast- students arrived with their fami- downtown Schenectady utilizing Students can easily become in-. ditch effort to revitali;ze the cjty,\ lies on labor day, most businesses empty space. On April 30, the volved in the Sclienectady 2000 Seddiq explained, on Jay Street were closed for the Erie Boulevard Task Force will project. Interested students The second reason why student day, despite the potential for supervise the cleanup of both should call 347·2000 and ask for efforts are imperative to the sue- large profits. Additionally, ac- lower and upper Erie Boulevard, either Miniarn Seddiq or Kim cess of the Schenectady 2000 cording to Seddiq and Perone, and on May 7, ·the cle~J,nup of Perone. They will provide inter- project is that, \Union College local gove.rnment officials Vale Park will begin. estedpeopleWithalist ofprojects cannot thrive in a city that many haven't endeared themselves to The aforementioned proposals and ·committees.- According to current students consider to be a the Union community by pre,• and projects should be ofparticu- Seddiq, the per~onal benefits of ghost-town.\ Union's academic venting students them from vot- Jar interest to Union College stu- involvementin·Schenectady 2000 reputation has declined over the ing in Schenectady. The local dents. _!hein?olv~~~ntpf!Jni~n for ~~dents will bemani~old: In past forty years, and a part of that press exacerbated the relatian,. · students on tHe'planmng commit- addttron to campus orgamzatrons decline, according to Seddiq, can ship between Union College and tees for these projects is crucial. ' and individuals fulfUli~g their probably be attributed to the de- Schenectady when they incited a For example, members of the · philanthr~pici'esponsibilities, stu• cline in the economic vitality of debate between Roger Hull and Schenectady 2000 project are cu- dents will also have a ''great op- Schenectady. \Only current and Frank Duci last year, according rious as to ''why Union students portunity to network with execu- future.Union.students can change to Seddiq. \The President is one don't use the bus,\ according to rives in Schenectady.\ the image or-Schenectady, which ·· . the readers of college books are exposed to.\ One of the reasons why Union students think negatively about Schenectady is because they do not frequent some of Schenectady's more attractive ar- eas. According to Seddiq, local government officials and busi- UMED Union's Emergency Medical Service Sponsors: HATE American Red Cross Community CPR/ Standard First Aid Class by Billy Shakos Concordiensis St(lff The feeling of hate He makes 1t your fate To strike. you .all dpwn Would g1ve h1m h1s crown. And make the world hear Just everyman's fear His feelings of hate His plans lo domi- nate. Making head roll You must pay the toll Collected in pain The man is insane. He has no remorse For hate is the source His pleasure is pain When blood pour in ra1n. A run-away soul Too much to control A man and his hate Will be everyone's fate The feel of his wrath In endless Bloodbath With love in his ey~s He plans your dem1se You run from his sin He corners you in You say your last word Your p.· rayer's never heard Ending his task He taKes off his mask A shame to his creed I beg to be freed! Help! Saturday, April 30, 199·4 Open to the Campus Community Students, Faculty, and Staff Enrollment : $20.00 Pre- Register by 4/22 · Questions and Registration: Brian Roberts x6876

n d n s r y K v 1 1 c FEATURES Exercise Queen Visits Alumni Gym by Erin O'Neil Features Editor What is it about the first sunny day of spring that makes ev~ry­ one want to pul:I on a pair of spandex and run out to exercise? Suddenly everyone's a health nut. Groups of girls' ''speed walk\ around the perimeter of campus in formations curiously resem- bling a gaggle of geese. Beefy men strip off their shirts ~d strut proudly about, hoping to attract the attention of some lucky woman. But just because the sun is shining, it does not mean the tem- perature is a balmy seventy-five degrees. It's time to abandon these fant(lsies and realize it's still cold outside. This doesn't mean we should not exercise, of course. Just take it inside to Alumni Gym like I have. Twice. I'm a sucker for peer pressure. Each spring I see my friends. and colleagues outthere getting active and decide that may:be it's about time l change my sloth-like .hab- its and hit the gym. lb.is year I've chosen to take up nautilus. Of course, the first proble~ I en .. e9untered was finding ~e acn.tal room in which the nautilus-equip- mentis kept. So I'm not off to a good start. What a surprise. The nautilusrOQm can be a very scary place for a newcomer like myself. I am suddenly sur- rounded by dozens of muscle- ' . bound males .and females who obviously got the. idea to start working out long before spring te:rm. \She.:Ra Stairmaster\ has been bouncing up and down on the damn· thing at top speed for close to an hour now. All around me people are using the nautilus equipment chatting and laughing with one another with ease. \How bad can this be?\ I thought, \This looks fun, it can't be exer- cise!\ Nautilus is not my forte. The bikes are computerized, it took me a while ta figure those out, but these are still pretty basic. Mter peddling for about five minutes, the girl on the bike next to mine begins asking me a s¢ries ofques- tions. l am.unabletorespond; as I am unable to force any air into my lungs. So much .for the chat~ · ting and laughing .. The stair-masters are also computerized.: I stilFhaven',t fig:- ured those out. the co~puter a.sk$, .. you :questions.· too: f(ow m,uch do you .weigh.? Whaf s . your skill level? How many calo- ries do you wish to bum? With the exception of the weight, I could not answer these questions seeing as though I have no idea what I am doing here in the gym in the first place. So I guess I can't use that machine. Damn! And now for the other ma- chines. Please... I have stood in front of each one staring blankly at the instructions hanging beside it. Pictures are shown so that you may position yourself correctly. Unfortunately, these do not help me, and the thought of placing myself in the middle of heavy, moving pieces of steel is some- what frightening. So I guess one may ask if what I have been doing, namely sitting clueless Upon various pieces of exercise equipment, could be con- sidered \working out.\ I suppose that depends on who you are. To the fitness freak, I am little more than a useless object occupying their machines of life. But I'm sure that most of my fellow spring time athletes would agree that walking to the gym instead of tak- ing my car is a. complete workout . in-·itself. · An .Evening of Jazz , wifh Dave McKenna .and- Gary Sargent . l • . ' •. '·; •• ~lt .,·. ,)!!\ ·~ ~·. ·• ' 1 i.i .~.·: '{ ~~-· . · 1 • ~,_. • '' ~ Sponsored by Trustco Bank and Psi Upsilon to Benefit Bone Marrow Resource Foundation, Inc. Thursday, April21·, 1994 at 7:00PM Union College Memorial Chapel Tickets $15.00 ~all Ticketmaster (518)476-1000 or (914)454-3388 April 7, 1994 , Page 9 Uncle Edna Uncle Edna is a Union College student who answers real ques- tions for real people. Distraught? Lovesick? Perpetually Neu- rotic? Ask your own Uncle Edna at box 83. This week, loyal readers, is the second .anniversary of my column and of the existence of Uncle Edna. Two years is a long time to exist and I'd like to take this opportunity to thank all of the people who have been doing stupid things for the last 104 weeks and thereby giving me endless amounts of material from which to draw. To commemorate the 2nd anniversary, I would like to announce the 1994 inductees into the ... 2nd Annual Crack Hall of Fame I. Homer Simpson. \mmmm Crack ... ., 2. Erin M. O'Neil. Definitely a qualified addict. Like her or not, her writing is definitely induced by the magic rock. 3. President Hull. Has anyone noticed the war zone/trailer park that our campus has become? · 4. Professor Scullioncola. The two-headed monster of campus · mythology. 5. Jake DoUce. For having subjected himself to one ofthe biggest crack influenced haircuts of all time. These five individuals join last years inductees Prof. Bick, Mel- issa Weiner, Mother Nature and David Letterman, in the hall of fame which will be located in the basement of the soon to be con- structed YuJman theater, (itself a structure founded on crack) Top Ten Top Ten games I would loW! lo play at my second birthday party. lO~Pin.the tail on the registrar . 9. Spin the Jagenneister 8. Musical pillows 7. Hide the phallic symbol 6. Monopoly for non-eco majors 5. Whiskey pong 4. Politically correct cowboys and Indians 3. Bury the 'Bobbitt' 2. Kiokthe endangered species · ' · ., '', l . Dunk the Doyd Students (¢The Week Ivonne Nunez, Kim Cramer, Suzanne Silverstein, Greg Slow, Mark Olsen, and Jim Dlubac. As a team, these six students spent spring break successfully portraying the Cindy, Jan, Marsha, Peter, Bobby and Greg in a Proctors theater production .of \THE BRADY BUNCH LIVE!\ It was a wonderful show. Congratula- tions. Population Control or Genocide? by Alexis Leist Features Editor With the novel medical discov- eries.and advancements that doc- tors, researchers, and scientists are making every day, child.i.bear .. ing has become possible for those who never could. And while this is admirable in itself, the world is still faced with a huge baby boom that must be controJled somehow; most especially, such population outbursts are found in third .. world countries. Population control is probably one of the most sensi- tive topics because it brings into question and debate moral, reli- gious, ethical, federal, and indi- vidual rights and issues that people would rather leave·,un- touched. But the fact that the world population may reach 9.1 billion by the year 2025 forces all the nations of the world to con- front this issue and consequently implement control policies. Tiu~ obvious fact that women are the sex endowed with theca- - pability ·of bearing children, makes us the focal aspect of dis- cussion and argument over the meth-ods of population control. Not only does this place. us in an extreme1y vulnerable position, but for::some women, it almost represents a type of \ethnic cleansing.\ What I mean is not that certain races or cultures would be controlled more than others,. butjust that the whole no- tion ofthe control·of such a natu- ral process as that of a new life being brought into the world, rings of genocide. Granted, it is necessary thatmethods are found for population control for the simple .reason of making a better ·world. ·But like anything, the subtle (and at times not so subtle) influence of sexism and racism causes us to become victims once again. I saw the movie The GoodSon the other night, and at the end the mother had to make a choice be- tween either saving her son (who was evil, a bad seed so to speak), and her nephew (who represented g<;»Qd). She chooses the nephew and allows her son to fall to his death. In a sense, I almost can see this sort of distinction and decision-making between good and evil occurring with popula- tion control. The so called \good women\ will be chosen over the \evil\ women. That is, coercive and mandatory sterilization (which is a suggestion for a method of population control) will be en- forced on poor women of third- world countries (peasants, wid- ows, hookers, drug addicts and the like), rather than the middle or upper class women of such countries or of countries like the US. Not only is that both unfair and sexist (how about sterilizing men) but it will simply perpetu- ate a ruling class, if per se the only women who were allowed to bear children were of the middle to upper class. Sure, some may ar- gue that eventually the poor classes will die out as a result of this, but isn't that genocide if not a fonn of ethnic cleansing? And who is to say that poor women aren't as emotionally capable of having families as rich women? Here as usual, we seem to con- nect happiness with money and the luxuries it brings. Putting aside the fact that sucb a method of population control is in essence a fonn of genocide, it also infringes on a woman's in- dividual rights as a human being. The state should have no say in what we can and cannot do with our bodies, that is both our choice and our prerogative. Coercive and mandatory sterilization is the highest fonn of insult and tyr- anny, and it goes against the be- liefs which make up every reli- gion as well as the typical facets of democracy. And it degrades women, because with such poli- cies we would not be seen as hu- mans with minds, emotions, and feelings but simply as machines which tum out children. Such a policy would perpetuate our clas- sical stereotype: woman as the empty vessel. Rather, the nations of the world must search for alternate methods of population control; devices which do n.ot trespass an individual's rights nor transgress ethical or religious codes, nor, and most importantly, keep women subordinate. People need to be educated. It is stated in Business Week (April 11) that, \various studies show that for every year of schooling a woman gets her fertility drops ·because more-edu- cated women have options out- side the home, many later, prac- tice contraception, and thus have fewer, healthier children.\ Education is the key; rather than controlling the population physically, through sterilization, it must be controlled intellectually through education, family plan- ning, and better health services to all nations of the world. Not only would this control population but it would teach the world. .•. I i . I - . .,. r I

. ' ' .. ' ~ . ' ~ April 7, 1994, page 10 FEATURES Question and Answer with Student Forum President Mia Caetano The First in a Series of Interviews With Influential Union College .students On the Issues The following are a series of campaign promises made by Mia Caetano last spring. The Student Forum President was asked to describe how the Stu- dent Forum addressed these is~ sues. Quote: . \I want to concentrate on help- ing to create a more diverse campus with more social alter- natives.\ Caetano: We are in the process of creating an additional Student Forum position. This position will be vice-:president ofCampus Life. TI1is person will be the chair of the Social Committee. The position will entail organizing and overseeing planning of events, such as Spting Fest and Winter Fest. A clearer job definition will be passed by the Student Forum this week .. To this date, the Student Forum has been successful at addressing this issue. Spring Fest and Win- ter Fest have been very success- ful, largely because of Andi Wil- son, the chairperson of the social committee. Andi is a sort of un- official member of the Student Forum. We are planning a huge, festive celebration of communi- ties with a spring formal, game booths, outdoor vendors from cultures around the world, con- certs throughout the weekend (possibly an outdoor concert fest), maybe outdoor BBQs, amongst other things. TI1ings are still in the planning stages, but we are fo- cusing on the entire campus com- munity, including faculty, staff and their families. Chet's was renovated. Even though Chet's has a stigma at- tached to it, the bar has served a lot of purposes. It has created an area where events, such as crosstalks and debates, can be held and students can meet for entertainment - and alcohol can be served in a responsible man- ner. Quote: \Women minorities and inde- pendents have been excluded from prominent positions on campus ... fl hopei to set a trend, encouraging people other than white, greek males to run for these positions.\ Levine: Was the debate over the membership of the SAC an important issue towards pro- moting diversity on campus governing bodies? Caetano: The SAC debate con- sumed much of fall term. l felt resolvin.g the issue was crucial to 1) uphold the consti- tution as no other Fo- rum had in the past. 2) ensure that the mem- bership rep- resents an adequate cross-sec- tion of Greeks and Indepen- dents at Union. Levine Why was the SAC such a hot issue? Caetano : Greeks may have felt threatened by possibly losing some represen- tation on the SAC. Everyone knew this was an important year to be a member on the SAC, es- pecially because of the creation of the housing evaluations. Many Greeks realized the importance of having as many fraternity mem- bers on the SAC as possible. I never disputed that, however, it is just as crucial on other issues to have a true representation of the campus on the committee. Levine : Could a future Student Forum President run into the same difficulties you encoun- tered with the SAC me~ber­ ship debate? Caetano : Any future presidents should not run into problems be- cause we changed the constitu- tion. But they must follow the constitution because it is there for a purpose ... My advice would be, if it doesn't work, change it, . but don't disregard it. Quote: \I·want to bridge the communication gap between students and faculty.\ Caetano: We have held Town Meetings and encouraged crosstalks. Matt Karlyn held sev- eral successful crosstalks during the fall and winter terms. Of par• ticular value were the crosstalks on the honor code and student- faculty relations. Additionally, I . frequently meet .. with faculty in- dividually so that the Forum be- comes more aware of their ideas and suggestions. Quote : \We can't change the world, but by working with the system our goals can be accom- plished.\ Caetano : We can't change the world, but this year we have suc- cessfuUy worked with the Crew Team and the administration to enable Crew to receive varsity sta- tus in the 1997-1998 school year. The Forum was very persistent in dealing with this issue. In fact, getting the administration to agree to recognizing Crew as a varsity sport required three terms of meet- ings. To me, this was one of our greatest accomplishments. Over the next four years, there will a gradual decrease .of Student Ac- tivity funding of Crew, with a concurrent increase in the administration's funding to the point where they will have a var- men to run for .office. I hope the Student Forum continues this. Personal Experiences sitylevelbuclget. Nextyear,there Levine: You are otlly the,sec- will be ~ additional $20;000 of ond fema~le Student Forum newly allocated funds which the President. From your experiM athletic de- ences this year, how do you 'part men t think your job would have been will use to different if you were a man try- fund Crew· ing to achieve the same initia- This will tivE!s you set forth? Do you feel . ensure that that members of the adminis- the coach- tration or the Student Forum ing staff have given you different treat~ can be paid ment than they may typically and will give a male counterpart? Have Pre v en t you encountered an \all .. boys\ students network? from hav- Caetano : I think that I have ing to been treated differently, but s P e n d mostly because I am an indepen- $400·$500 dent.. I think the college is mak- of their ing a conceited effort to eliminate o w n the existence of an ''ollj. boys\ money on network. The other thing to con- traveling sideris that Union has only been expens.es · coedforless than 25 years. I also Crew will know that many members· of the fina1ly be · faculty and administration were V a r s i t Y ! very supportive and excited when They de- I was elected and throughout the serve it and year. the Student However, at most meetings I Activity am a minority. Sometimes it is funds can difficult to command respect be- be allocated to other clubs be- cause of your age, not just be~ cause Crew was getting too large cause of your sex or greek status. for the Student Activity budget. One thing which is important is On Students Levine : In general, what is the level of student feedback? · Caetano : It is better than in past years - the Town Meetings have been successful and we have had guests at our meetings on a regu- lar basis. I had never seen that when I was on the Fort_Im in pre~ vious years . ~ . but it can always improve. What was a huge suc- cess was our West Dinner with the freshman during fall term. The Student Forum was there throughout the dinner and each of us went from table to table to talk with freshmen .. We received a lot of suggestions during the dinner, but more importantly, the fresh- men were familiarized with us, who we were, and what we do. I think this influenced a I otof fresh- that I never back down, and no matter what the situation is, I will always let my opinion be known. I am quite opinionated. Levine : On a personal level, what experiences have you had on the Forum which you feel have changed your opinions on certain issues? Caetano : My opinion has changed on certain issues. I be- lieve that Validine can be a suc- cessful program with a lot ofpos-: sibilities. ·Students at other schools, for example, can pur- chase pizzas from outside busi- nesses on their Meal cards. It has potential, hut the way it was en- acted was wrong ... the students were not fully aware of aiJ.of its implications at first. This issue still needs to be addressed. Union College .. Peer Facilitators Present DIVERSITY SERIES · Levine : Do you feel your ex- perience on the Forum will help you in future positions of lead- ership? What have you learned about leadership and motiva- tion over the past year? Caetano : This experience has been invaluable to me. I have learned how to be an effective negotiator. I have also learned that it is extremely difficult to motivate others. Teamwork is very important, people need to be infonned of everything. Persis- tence is very important. LOVE AGAINST ALL ODDS ROD & BOB JACKSON-PARIS A superstar bodybuilder and a top male model, married to each other, have become role models for alternative life styles that work. Featured on \Oprah \Donahue and the \Joan Rivers Show,\ they are articulate proponents of gay and human rights; Thursday, April 7th 7:30pm .. CC Aud. Levine : What do you. plan to do after you. graduate from Union this June? Caetano : I will be attending Law School. I have already been ac- cepted at two schools and I am waiting to bear from two more.

... y II' e ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT April 7, 1994, Page llD ANNUAL JURIED UNDERGRADUATE ART EXHIBITION Courtesy of the Visual A,rts Department The Visual Arts Department announces the Second Annual Juried Undergraduate Art Exhi- bition, which will be installed in the Union College Arts Atrium from Monday April 18 through Thursday May 6. Th.e exhibition wiH coincide with the Steinmetz Symposium on Undergraduate Research, held at the college on May6. Last year's exhibition in the Atrium was s.elected by New Yorker cartoonist Warren Miller, andit looked.wonderful. Profes- sor Rob Phelan was also involved in the judging, and remembers it fondly as \more real than he wanted it to be\. TI1e annual show is an opportunity to show one's best work and, se~ the work of fellow artists and friends. It's an excellent item to have on the re- sume and there's free food at the opening! Any Union student who has taken a class in the Department of Visual Arts in the Spring 1993, FaU 1993 or Winter 1994 tenn.s - is eligible to enter work in the competition. The work does have to have been done in a Visual Arts class at Union or in the Arts Club. AH work will be judged by an outside juror, who will be a prac- ticing artist or curator invited by the Department. The requirements for the show are as follows: Participants may enter up to three works in each of the follow- ing areas: Drawing, Painting, Pho- tography, Printmaking, Sculpture, 2D and 3D Design, and Ceramics. All work submitted should be left . in one of the two gray alcoves in the Arts Atrium no lat~r than 12:00 noon on Tuesday, April 12. 2D work should be mounted ·and ready to hang, and 3D work ready to install. Selected work will be installed by the Visual Arts faculty. Each piece must also have an identification page attached with the following information: artist's name, campus address and phone#, title of work, me- dium, dimensions, and date of work. There will be an official open- ing for the show in the Arts Atrium on Tuesday, April 19 at 4:00 PM. In addition, each par- ticipant in the exhibition will be listed in the Steinmetz Sympo- sium program and will receive free admission to the Steinmetz banquet on May 6. Lastyear' s Annual Juried show was an exciting beginning. We look forwardto your participation this year to prove once again that the ARTS AT UNION ARE ALIVE AND KICKING. QUESTIONS? Contact a Vi- sual Arts faculty member. Alvin Ailey Dance Company To Footballg Feminism, and other Contemporary Contradictions T·eacb Master Classes Courtesy of tire . Performing Arts Department On Monday, April I1, 1994, members of the Alvin Aile:y American Dance Theater will teach two master classes in the Horton modem dance technique at Union College. Classes are open to the Union College com- munity and to the general public. The Beginner Level class will take place in the Performing Arts Studio on Monday, April 11 from 4:30-5:45pm. The h1tennediate Level will take place from 6:00- 7:30pm at the same location. There is a fee of $7.00 but no · charge for students enrolled in the Dance Practica during the spring semester. A sign-up sheet for the master classes is located in the Depart- ment of Perfonning Arts office, Arts Building 101 . Payment for the class is due AprilS, 1994. For more information, contact Dawn Parisi at 388-6201. For telephone ticket orders:(518)346-6204, for ticket info 382-5392. presented by Ja-ckson Katz \The Feminist Fullback\ .... Is it a contradiction to love foot hall and yet approach women as genuine equals? - What role do advertising, Hollywood, sexist comedy, pornography, and sports culture play in glorifying violent masculinity and contributing to violence againsfwomen? - What effect has growing up with the women's movement had on the first generation of men to do so? April 14th CC auditorium 8PM Sponsored by Women's Union Which M.B.A. Program Would You Choose? + You'll need to go to school full-time for two yean to finish thls degree. + Yoo can earn a Saint Rose M.B.A. in just one year, if you already have an undergrad .degree in business. + Intensive 240..hour Internship enables you to gain experience in your field of interest , + Mentoring Program pairs you with area business leaders. r ____ . ___ _ + 36-credit program saves you time and money. m like more information on + Challenging curriculum inspires you to exceed your best. The College of Saint Rose . 1-Year M.B.A. Program + Experienced faculty who love to teach. ·+ On-Campus. Housing, and Financial Aid Opportunities available. Want to learn more about earning your M.U in just one year or about the College's one-year M.S. in Accounting Programr Call (518) 454·5136 today. THE COLLEGE OF Graduate School ~~=\::===::;::;;:::::=.;:: 432 Western Ave. SAINT ROSE Albany, N.Y. 12203 · (5 I~) 454-5 136 ~AX: 454-20 12 Name --~-c--- Address _____ _ City/State ____ _ Zip _____ _ Phone # ____ _ - .. ' .

; ,, iaf'< i < ~ . ~pril 7,,~ 1994; Page 12 ARTS & .ENTERTAINM-ENT Sculptor Jonathan Kirk to Lecture at·Union Courtesy of tile Visual Arts Department Visiting Artist Jonathan Kirk will show slides and lecture ot1 his sculpture Wednesday, April 13 at 2: 15 pm. The slide presen- tation wiU take place in romn 2'15 in the Arts Building. Jonathan Kirk is an artist whose work typically combines a sharp sense ofthe formal quali- ties of constructed sculpture with an almost romantic engagement and industrial form. Many of his sculptures re.call the types of structures one associates with ships, waterways, and industrial artifacts ofthe past. Kirk encour- ages these associations with the titles he gives : \Stonoway''; \Wright's Cone\; \Nelson's Jig\. He works in many different ma- terials including steel, wood, and fiberglass. His sculptures are also known to be large. They're often given an industrial .finish, like galvanized steel or industrial btray paint, perhaps as a kind of hom- age to the world of function and work. In a New York Times re- terized Kirk's sculpture as \an eJn egant assemblage of forms re- sembling funnels, pipes <md tubes, which manages to be at the satn.e time suggestive and rigor- ously abstract\. Jonathan Kirk has been shown widely in New York, in diverse venues including the City Uni-. versity of New York, the C.W. Post campus of Long Island Uni- versity, Sailor's Snug Harbor, the Pyramid Arts Center in Roches- ter, and the Thousand Islands Shipyard Museum i·n Clayton, NY He has received awards from the Elizabeth Greenshields Foun- dation, the Ludwig Vogelstein Foundation, the Pollock-Krasher Foundation, and most recently from the New York Foundation for the Arts. He received ~his BFA from St. Martin's School of Art in London and his MFA from Syracuse University. Kirk cur• ·rently lives .in Utica, NY wh~re he is Studio Manager at Sculp- ture Space. ·· l11e lecture is sponsored by the· - Department of Visual Arts and the Walter C. Baker Lecture Se- view, Michael Brenson charac- ries Endowment Fund. Local Arts and Entertainment Calendar THURSD.A Y, APRIL 7 NATHANIEL MACKEY: Poet and fiction writer reads from his work. Assembly Hall, Campus Center, SUNY Albany uptown campus, ,g pm, 442-5620. MENDELSSOHN STRING QUARTET: Nick Eanet- violin. Nicholas Mann- vio- FLUTE CHOIR CONCERT: Orchestra featuring Kevin Huang, in the last move- ment ofMendelssolm's Violin Concerto in E Minor, and the premiere ofNig)ltscape by Ramakrishna Gaddipati, Choir featuring Dvorak's Te Deum. Memorial Chapel, Union College, 8:30pm. lin, Katherine Murdock- viola, Marcu Rosen- cello, Kiggins Hall at Emma Willard THURSDAY. APRIL 14 SchooL 285 Pawling Ave (Rt. 66), Troy, 8 pm, $13, $6/students, 273-8135. FRIDAY, APRIL 8 OKLAHOMA!: 50th Anniversary Celebration of Rodgers and Hammerstein' s m u- sical, Oklahoma. ·p~octor's l11eatre, 8 _pm, $22.50 - $32.50, 346-6204. CANADIAN BRASS: Internationally acclaimed for their \brilliant virtuosity and FRIDAY. APRIL 15 ensemble playing of remarkable unanimity.\ (New York Times) Proctor's l11eatre, 8 pm, $25.50- $20.50, 382-3884. THE BAND: Their first release on Pyramid Records.Jericho. Palace Theatre, Al- bany, 8 pm, $17.50,465-4663. COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: \The Joy Luck Club;' 7:30 & 10 p.m., $2. SATURDAY, APRJ.L 9 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: See Friday, April 8. SUNDAY, APRIL to ALVIN AILEY -AMERICAN DANCE THEATER: Embraces many dance techniques: modem, jazz, tap, ballet, Afro-Caribbean and more. Proctor's Theatre, 7 pm, $22.50 - $28.50, 346-6204. . BETWEEN THE LINES: Kristin Kunhardt and Joseph Brenna, Olffe Lena, 47 Phila St., Saratoga, 7 pm, $7, 583-0022. COLLEGE CENTER AVD. FILM: See Friday, April 8. FIGHT LIKE TIGERS: One woman show portraymg activist Mother Jones, starring Irish actress Eileen Pollock. Steamer No. 10 Theatre, Inc. 500 Westem Ave, Albany, 7 pm, $7/students. $9, 438-5503. MONDAV, APRIL 11 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: See Friday, April 8. TUESDAY. APRIL 12 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: .. True Love,\ 8 & lOpm, $1. WEDNESDAY. APRIL 13 ART TALK: \American Light: The Luminist Movement 1850-1875.\ Free lunch- ~ COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: \-Pelican Brief,\ 7:30 & 10 p.m., $2. ······· CONTINUOUS EXHIBITS: FEBRUARY 5- MAY 15 WORKING WITH TRADITION: The Academic Artist: Paintings, sculptures, lithographs and more by SUNY faculty artists. New York State Museum ii1 Albany. 4 7 4-120 I . ' JANUARY 21- MAY 29 THE GURLEY SMART COLLECTION: Historic Sur- veying Instmments featured. New York State Museum in Albany. 474-1201. JANUARY 22- JULY 8 SELLING THE ·GOODS: Products and advertising in Albany. Albany In- stitute ofHistory & Art, Albany. 464-4478. THROUGH JUNE 19 PONDER THESE THINGS: By Invema Lockp.ez, New York State Mu- seum, Albany, 474-5842. THROUGH JULY 24 FROM THE COLLECTIONS: 1994: _Selections fonn the holkings of the New York Museum. New York State Museum, Albany, 474-5842. time talk about the American Luminst movement. Albany Institute of History & Art, 125 Washington Ave, Albany, I 2:10pm, 463-4478. Compiled by Suzanne Robihson/Concordiensis Staff

. -~ 'lilt:\ ) ' '\ ·1 '· 11 April 7, 1994, Page 12 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Sculptor Jonathan Kirk to Lecture at Union Courtesy of the Visual Arts Department Visiting Artist Jonathan Kirk will show slides and lecture on his sculpture Wednesday, April 1 ~ at 2: 15 pm. The slide presen- tation will take place in room 215 in the Arts Building. Jonathan Kirk is an artist whose work typically combines a sharp sense of the formal quali- ties of constructed sculpture with an almost romantic engagement and industrial form. Many of his sculptures recall the types of structures one associates with ships, waterways, and industrial artifacts of the past. Kirk encour- ages these associations with the titles he gives : \Stanaway\; \Wright's Cone''; \Nelson's Jig\. He works in many different ma- terials including steel, wood, and fiberglass. His sculphtres are also known to be large. They're often given an industrial finish, like galvanized steel or industrial brray paint, perhaps as a kind of hom- age to the world of function and work. In a New York 1/mes re- terizedKirk's sculpture as \an el- egant assemblage of forms re- sentbling funnels, pipes and tubes, which manages to be at the same time suggestive and rigor- ously abstract\. Jonathan Kirk has been shown widely in New York, in diverse venues including the City Uni-, versity of New York, the C.W. Post campus of Long Island Uni- versi,ty,Sailor's Snug Harbor, the Pyramid Arts Ce1Her in Roches- ter, and the Thousand Islands Shipyard Museum in Clayton, NY. He has received awards from tl~e Elizabeth Greenshields Foun- dation, the Ludwig Vogelstein Foundation, the Pollock-Krasner Foundation, and most recently from the New York Foundation for the Arts. He received his BFA from St. Martin's School of Art in London and his MFA from Syracuse University. Kirk cur- rently lives in Utica, NY where he is Studio Manager at Sculp- ture Space. The lecture is sponsored by the· Department of Visual Arts and the Walter C. Baker Lecture Se- view, Michael Brenson charac- ries Endowme1~t Fund. Local Arts and Entertainment Calendar THURSDAY, APRIL 7 NATHANIEL MACKEY: Poet and fiction writer reads from his work. Assembly llall. Campus Center. SUNY Albany uptown campus. 8 prn. 442-5620. :\IE~DELSSOII;\4 STRI:\'G Ql 1 ARTET: Nick Eanet- violin. Nicholas Mann- vio- lin. Katherine Murdock- viola. Marcu Rosen- cello. Kiggins Hall at Emma Willard School. 285 Pawling Ave (Rt. 66). Troy. 8 pm, $13. $6/students, 273-8135. FRIDAY, APRIL 8 FLUTE CHOIR CONCERT: Orchestra featuring Kevin Huang, in the last move- ment of Mendelssohn's Violin Concerto in E Minor, and the premiere of Nightscape by Ramakrishna Gaddipati, Choir featuring Dvorak's Te Deum. Memorial Chapel, Union College. 8:30pm. THURSDAY, APRIL 14 0 KLAHO MA!: 50th Anniversary Celebration of Rodgers and Hammerstein' s m u- sical, Oklahoma. Proctor's l11eatre, 8 pm, $22.50- $32.50, 346-6204. CANADIAN BRASS: lntemationally acclaimed for their \brilliant virtuosity and FRIDAY. APRIL 15 ensemble playing of remarkable unanimity.\ (New York Times) Proctor's Theatre, 8 pm, $25.50- $20.50, 382-3884. THE BAND: Their first release on Pyramid Records .Jericho. Palace Theatre, Al- bany, 8 pm, $17.50,465-4663. COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: '\The Joy Luck Club,\ 7:30 & 10 p.m., $2. SATURDAY. APRIL 9 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: See Friday, April 8. SUNDAY, APRIL 10 ALVIN AILEY- AMERICAN DANCE THEATER: Embraces many dance techniques: modem. jazz, tap, ballet Afro-Caribbean and more. Proctor's Theatre, 7 pm, $22.50- $28.50, 346-6204. BETWEEN THE LINES: Kristin Kunhardt and Joseph Brenna, Caffe Lena, 4 7 Phil a St., Saratoga, 7 pm, $7,583-0022. COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: See Friday, April 8, FIGIIT LIKE TIGERS: One woman show portray111g activist Mother Jones, starring Insh actress Eileen Pollock. Steamer No. 10 TI1eatre, Inc. 500 Westem Ave, Albany, 7 pm, $7/students. $9, 438-5503. MONDAY, APRIL 11 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: See Friday, April 8, TUESDAY, APRIL 12 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: \True Love,\ 8 & 10 pm, $1. WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: \Pelican Brief,\ 7:30 & 10 p.m., $2. CONTINUOUS EXHIBITS: FEBRUARY 5- MAY 15 WORKING WITH TRADITION: The Academic Artist: Paintings, sculptures, lithographs and more by SUNY faculty artists. New York State Museum in Albany. 474-120l. JANUARY 21 -MAY 29 THE GURLEY SMART COLLECTION: Historic Sur- veying Instruments featured. New York State Museum in Albany. 474-1201. JANUARY 22- JULY 8 SELLING THE GOODS: Products and advertising in Albany. Albany In- stitute of History & Art, Albany. 464-4478. THROUGH JUNE 19 PONDER THESE THINGS: By Invema Lockpez, New York State Mu- seum, Albany, 474-5842. THROUGH JULY 24 FROM THE COLLECTIONS: 1994: Selections fonn the holkings ofthe New York Museum. New York State Museum, Albany, 474-5842. ART TALK: \American Light: The Luminist Movement 1850-1875.\ Free lunch- time talk about the American Luminst movement. Albany Institute of History & Art, 125 Washington Ave. Albany, 12: topm, 463-4478. Compiled by Suzanne Robinson!Concordiensis Staff

SCIENCE AND HEALTH April 7, 1994, page 13 New Research Provides Clues to the Causes of Endometriosis by Andy Sal=lma Science and Healtll co-Editor Endometriosis is an elusive .. enigmatic disease which afflicts approximately 1 0 percent of wom.en in their child bearing years. As of yet an effective cure lias not been developed. Recent research suggests that endometriosis may be due to itt:t- mune dysfunction as wen as ex- posure to Dioxin. cells, regardless of their location, respond to periodic honnonal sig:- nals, in particular menstrual cycle elevations in estrogen, and progesterone. Nonnally increases in estrogen cause the uterine lin- ing to build up, c endometriosis easier by allowing the observation of growths in the a:bdomen without invasiveness. Endometriosis has been associ~ ated with immune disorders such as lupus, cancer, the use of IUDs, denounced this claim based. on the fact that many patients exhibited symptoms before the age of 20. The EA also suggests that getting pregnant is neither a suitable nor ·effective form of prevention. The cause of endometriosis seems to be linked to an im- pairment of the endometriosis, as well as 7lper- cent exposed to 25ppt. A family of compounds related to dioxin, polychlorinated biphenyl.; (PCBs), has also been shown to be linked to endometriosis. Endometriosis profoundly ef- fects the renegade cells in the body. Cells, and eventua,lly tis,. sue, spread from the uterine lin- ing to other or:gan centers in the body, such as the bladder, hites- tine, or in rare cases, the lung. l11e exact mechanism of how this occurs remains unknown. and progester- one causes this lining to be shed, resulting in menstrua- tion. When displaced en- dometrial cells 2,3, 7 ,8--Tet:rachlorodibenzo-p-dioxill · immune sys- tem. Dioxins are pollutants created in cer- One argument suggests pollut- ants, such as dioxin, act similar to hormones, perhaps mimicking the activity of estrogen, and dis- rupting the immune functions. Other research suggests that di- oxin may effect macrophages, a type of immune system cell, by causing them to release factors which irritate or alter the endome- trial cells. One theory suggests that men- strual blood flows back into the fallopian tubes and .spreads from there, instead of being expelled from the body. Endometrial are exposed to the same signals, they build up, and slough off; causing internal bleeding, and great pain. Physicians have often misdiag- nosed endometriosis, accrediting its symptoms to menstruation. Subsequently, it is sometimes rec- ognized in its severe .stages which requires the removal ofthe uterus and ovaries. Laparoscopy has made the diagnosis of and infertihty. Interestingly, 30 to 40 percent of women treated for infertility ;have endometriosis, although it is not known if the relationship is causal. Research- ers suggest that the more periods a woman has, the more likely she is to get endometriosis, and de- laying childbirth seemed to pose a problem. !lowever, the Endometriosis Association (EA) · A-,other Defense Against Alzheimer's Disease by Kenny Lee Science & IJeq.ltlr co-Editor duction of the honnone. Men, on dementia. Presently, it is thought the other hand can convert their that estrogen makes neurons more n1ajor reproductive honnone, tes- sensitive to stimuli and helps in Over the past couple of years tosterone, to estrogen for use in the production of enzymes impor- the scientific and medical com- the brain. Since testosterone lev- taut in nerve response. In studies munities have been working to elsdonotdeclineuntilmuch later, done on female rats whose ova- find th~ mechanism of action men could be better protected ries have been removed, it has and drugs to treat Alzheimer's against the disease. been observed th\at synaptic inter- disease. Recently, drugs have Studies have been done to test connections (where messages are been found to combat the degen- whether estrogen is in fact vital relayed from neuron to neuron) erating disease, however intense in preventing Alzheimer's dis- are simplified by retraction of research has been going on to ease. Thus far, all of the studies both dendrites and axons. This find how the disease occurs in the have been done on women, in results in messages not being sent first place. particular premenopausal women in response to certain stimuli. In A relatively new hypothesis is who have had their ovaries re- further studies on enzymes it has that the loss of estrogen may moved. This is important because been shown that depleted levels cause individuals to be more vul... the ovaries are the main source of of estrogen reduce levels of cho- nerable to \It has been shown that women are line acetyl transferase, Alzheimer's disease. . . . . • . • which is needed to pro- When most people more hkely to suffer from Alzheimer's duce acetylcholine (aneu- hearestrogen theyim- disease due to the onset of menopause. rotransmitter). This is tnediately associate it This is becaus~ estrogen, which is . important because with- as a hormone present primarily produced by the ovaries, out acetylcholine, mes- only in females. This can no longer be produced.\ sages cannot be relay~d in fact is not the case. from neuron to neuron m Males as well as females produce 1his hormone., It is simply present in larger amounts in fe- males. Estrogen, besides being important in the reproductive cycle of women, is also very im- portant in neural development and is thus present in aU adult brains. It has been shown that women are more likely to suffer from Alzheimer's disease due to the onset of menopause. This is be- cause estrogen,. which is prima- rily produced by the ovaries can no longer be produced. This is why the medical community is now suggesting that post meno- pausal women take estrogen pills to supplement the reduced pro- estrogen In women. Studies done by Dr. Barbara B. Sherman at McGill University in Montreal, have shown that these women, when given estrogen pills, per- fonn better than thos~;J not given the pills in tests of verbal memory. However, the effects. are specific to certain are~s, such as verbal memory, but not to regular every- day activities in which all of the women studied performed equally well. So the question remains, what mechanism causes Alzheimer's and what roll does estrogen play in it's prevention? It has recently been shown that estrogen plays at least two roles in t1euronal decremation, restJ,lting in certain regions of the brain, in- cluding the hippocampus (part of the brain associated with memory}. Much more work needs to be done to find the exact mechanism of action of estrogen and whether it has a direct or indirect role in causing Alzheimer'sdisease. Pri- mary work has been done to cor- relate the depletion of acetylcho- line and the hippocampus by es- trogen and observations of people with dementia. Now scientists must work to find out whether es- trogen causes this orifthe lack of it causes a chain of reactions which lead to dementia. Source: New York Times Tuesday March 8, 1994. The Science and Health Section is looking for good writers who know something about physics, chemistry, genetics, astronomy or neurobiology. Contact Andy or Kenny at x6155 for more information about deadlines. - tain industrial processes, the most toxic is 2,3, 7 ,8-tetrechlorodibenzo-p- dioxin(TCDD) An abstract printed in F'undamental and Ap- plied Toxicology reported that 79 percent of a primate population exposed to dioxin developed endometriosis. l11e fifteen year study revealed that 43 percent of the primates who received five parts per trillion (5ppt) developed The complete mechanism of how endometriosis develops is still uncertain, however there seems to be a direct correlation between the immune system and exposure to dioxin. Source: Scientific American, April 1994. The Committee for Health Education would like your OPINION on some vital issues Are you aware of educational programs or events on Campus, that transmit information about: (check all that apply) 1) NUTRITION 2) EATING D~SORDERS 3) BODY IMAGE Are these programs beneficial, informative, pertinent? YES NO What programs would you like to see instituted in the future Please give y.our suggestions or comments WHEN COMPLETED PLEASE RETURN TO SECRETARY'S DESK- DINIING SERVICES -CC202 OR HEAf: TH SERVICES (SILLIMAN HALL) - -. ...

,'· ., II ! i 'i:.,:; . ~ SCIENCE AND HEALTH April 7, 1994, page 13 New Research Provides Clues to the Causes of Endometriosis by Andy Salama Science and Healtlr co-Editor Endometriosis is an elusive. eHigmatic disease which affl.icts approximately 1 0 percent of wonten in their child bearing years. As of yet an effective cure l1as not been developed. Recent research suggests that endometriosis may be dHe to im- Hmne dysfunction as well as ex- posure to Dioxin. cel:ls, regafdless of their location, respoad to periodic honnonal sig- nals, in particular menstrual cycle elevations in estroge11, and progesterone. Nonnally iitcreases in estrogen cause the uterine lin- ing to build up, c endometriosis easier by aUowing the observation of growths in the abdomen without invasiveness. Endometriosis has been associ- ated with immune disorders such as lupus, cancer, the use ofiUDs, denmmced this claim based on the fact tlijat many patients exhibited symptoms befme the age of 20. The EA also suggests that getting pregnant is neither a suitable nor effective fonn of prevention. 1l1e cattse of cr endometriosis, as well as 71 per- cent exposed to 25ppt. A family of compounds related to dioxin, polychlorinated biphenyl-5 (PCBs), has also been shown to be linked to endometriosis. Endometriosis profoundly ef- fects the renegade cells in the body. Cells, and eventually tis- Stie, spread from the uterine lin- ing to other organ centers in the body, such as the bladder, intes- tine, or in rare cases, the lung. l11e exact mechanism of how this occurs remains unknown. and progester- one causes this lining to be shed, resulting in menstrua- tion. When displaced en- dmnetrial cells 2,.3 .. 7,8- Tet:rachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin endometriosis seems to be linked to an im- painnent of the Immune sys- tem. Dioxins are pollutants created in cer- One argument suggests pollut- ants, such as dioxin, act similar to honnones, perhaps mimicking the activity of estrogen, and dis- rupting the immune functions. Other research suggests that di- oxin may effect macrophages. a type of immune system cell, hy causing them to release factors which irritate or alter the endome- trial cells. One tlieory suggests that men- stmal blood flows back into the fallopian tubes and spreads from there, instead of being expelled from the body. Endometrial are exposed to the same signals, they build up, and slough off, causing internal bleeding, and great pain. Physicians have often misdiag- nosed endometriosis, accrediting its symptoms to menstruation. Subsequently, it is sometimes rcc- OgJ~ized in its severe stages which requires the removal of the uterus and ovaries. Laparoscopy has made the diagnnsis of and infertility. Interestingly, 30 to 40 percent of women treated for infertility have endometriosis, although it is not known if the relationship is causal. Research- ers suggest that the more periods a woman has, the more likely she is to get endometriosis, and de- laying childbirth seemed to pose a problem. However, the Endometriosis Association (EA) Another Defense Against Alzheimer's Disease by Kenny Lee Science & Healtlt co-Editor duction of the honnone. Men, on dementia. Presently, it is thought the other hand can convert their that estrogen makes neurons more major reproductive hormone, tes- sensitive to stimuli and helps in Over the past couple of years tosterone, to estrogen for use in the production of eNzymes impor- the scientific and medical com- the brain. Since testosterone lev- tant in nerve response. In studies munities have been working to els do not decline until much later, done on female rats whose ova- find th~ mechanism of action men could be better protected ries have been removed, it has and drugs to treat Alzheimer's against the disease. been observed tl1at synaptic inter- disease. Recently, dmgs have Studies have been done to test connections (where messages are been found to combat the degen- whether estrogen is in fact vital relayed from neuron to neuron) erating disease, however intense in preventing Alzheimer's dis- are simplified by retraction of research has been going on to ease. Tims far, all of the studies both dendrites and axons. This find how the disease occurs in the have been done on women, in results in messages not being sent first place. particular premenopausal women in response to certain stimuli. In A relatively new hypothesis is who have had their ovaries re- further studies on enzymes it has that the loss of estrogen may moved. This is important because been shown that depleted levels cause individuals to be more vul- the ovaries are the main source of of estrogen reduce levels of cho- nerable to \It has been shown that women are line acetyltransferase, Alzheimer's disease. which is needed to pro- When most people more likely to suffer from Alzheimer's duce acetylcholine (a neu- hear estrogen they im- disease due to the onset of menopause. rotransm itter). This is mediately associate it This is because estrogen, which is important because with- as a honnone present primarily produced by the ovaries, out acetylcholine, mcs- only in females. This can no longer be produced.\ sages cannot be relayed in fact is not the case. from neuron to neuron in Males as well as females produce estrogen in women. Studies done certain regions of the brain, in- this hormone., It is simply by Dr. Barbara B. Sherman at eluding the hippocampus (part of present in larger amounts in fe- McGill University in Montreal, the brain associated with males. Estrogen, besides being have shown that these women, memory). important in the reproductive when given estrogen pills, per- Much more work needs to be cycle of women, is also very im- fonn better than those not given done to find the exact mechanism portant in neural development the pills in tests of verbal memory. of action of estrogen and whether and is thus present in all adult However, the effects are specific it has a direct or indirect role in brains. to certain areas, such as verbal causing Alzheimer's disease. Pri- It has been shown that women memory, but not to regular every- mary work has been done to cor- are more likely to suffer from day activities in which all of the relate the depletion of acetylcho- Alzheimer's disease due to the women studied performed line and the hippocampus byes- onset of menopause. This is be- equally well. trogen and observations ofpeople cause estrogen, which is prima- So the question remains, what with dementia. Now scientists rily produced by the ovaries can mechanism causes Alzheimer's must work to find out whether es- no longer be produced. l11is is and what roll does estrogen play trogen causes this or if the lack of why the medical community is in it's prevention? It has recently it causes a chain of reactions now suggesting that post meno- been shown that estrogen plays at which lead to dementia. pausal women take estrogen pills least two roles in neuronal Source: New York Times to supplement the reduced pro- decremation, resulting 111 Tuesday March 8, 1994. The Science and Health Section is looking for good writers who know something about physics, chemistry, genetics, astronomy or neurobiology. Contact Andy or Kenny at x6155 for more information about deadlines. tain industrial processes, the most toxic is 2,3, 7,8 -tetrechl orodibenzo-p- dioxin(TCDD) An abstract printed in Fundamental and Ap- plied Toxicology reported that 79 percent of a primate population .:xposcd to dioxin developed endometriosis. The fifteen year study revealed that 43 percent of the primates who received five pmis per trillion (5ppt) developed The complete mechanism of how endometriosis develops is still uncertain. however there seems to be a uirect conelation between the immune S) stem ,lllJ exposure to dioxin. Source: Scientific American. Apri I 1904. The Committee for Health Education would like your OPINION on some vital issues Are you aware of educational programs or events on Campus, that transmit information about: (check all that apply) I) NUTRITION 2) EATING DISORDERS 3) BODY IMAGE Are these programs beneficial, informative, pertinent? YES NO What programs would you like to see instituted in the future Please give y.our suggestions or comments WHEN COMPLETED PLEASE RETURN TO SECRETARY'S DESK- DINHNG SERVICES -C'C'202 OR HEALTH SERVICES (SILLIMAN HALL) -

,j ,, 'I 'I PERSONA\LS7CLASSIFIEDS Personals Heath - Don't forget to always keep that smile on your face -- things can't ever be that bad. Love -Your sis LPC - You are a freak of nature. Love always, ME To the girls of Cancun (AKMKHFN)- I had the best time ever! La Boom and Sex Man will always be with us!_ Love Always, Elissa To my ever favorite snow bunny - Don't to ANYTHING drastic. I'm glad you had a good time this weekend. As I have said before, too many men too little time. Love - Your favorite neighbor. VA and llovepolishfood- I'm glad that I had some hot babes to suf- fer through the trials and ofLeslie with. Love, H. Dave - You are them ost arrogant human being I have ever met. God knows how I will ever let you live through a whole year, strike that, through a whole week. love - guess who Marc - I better see you at next weeks meeting or you're really going to have that dual with me. Love - your favorite neighbor Sheryl - Happy Belated B'day! 21 ! ! ! ! Seems like only yesteF- day...... Hope you had a good day! Love, Heather Lisa- Don't panic. I swear it wiH all be ok. Hewill always be a little too pompous, but he loves you, and appreciates everything you do. Just a little tough for him to say. You know. Dear Bra- Smile kid, your sister loves you. Love - Carrie Tommy - Congratulations! One more and you owe me dinner! I love you. Caroline Sweetheart- I love you more than the sun the moon and the stars and more than I ever loved you before. Love- Me Classifieds ., Career Observation Days, April 26, 27, 28. Spend a half or full day with. an alumnus/a at his/her place of employment. Learn- firsthand about your career inter: ests. Student Sign Up -April 11, 12, l3 in the CDC. Sjgn ups are first come -first serve. Don'tmiss out! For more infonnation call the CDC, x 6176. The CDC is looking for a few good students to fill the impor- tant job of Career Assistants for the 1994-95 academic year. Join an outstanding group ofCA's and discover a fun and rewarding paid on-campus opportunity. For more infonnation or to pick up an application stop by the CDC, third floor Ol·d Chapel or call x6176. Applications are due Fri- day, April 22nd. A paid summer office position is available at the CDC. Good com- munication skills and orga- nizational skills a must. Com- ,_ p R I, N C I P ,·L E S of S 0 U N IY R E T I R E !\l E N T I N V E.S T I N G < •• ' • ' • ' • UNFORTUNATEIX; TinS IS WHERE PEOPLE ARE PUTTING TOO MANY RETIREMENT DOLLARS. E very year, a lot of people make a money you don't send to Washington huge mistake on their taxes. They works even harder for you. Down the don't take ad vantage of tax deferral and road, that can make a dramatic difference wind up sending Uncle Sam money they in your quality of life. could be saving for retirement. What else makes SRAs so special? Fortunately, that's a mistake you can A range of allocation choices-from the easily avoid with TIAA-CREF SRAs. guaranteed security of TIAA to the SRAs not only ease your current tax- diversified investment accounts of bite, they offer a remarkably easy way CREF's variable annuity-all backed to build retirement income-especially by the nation's number one retirement for the \extras\ that your regular pension system. and Social Security benefits may not Why write off the chance for a more cover. Because your contributions are rewarding retirement? Call today and b r d II I' learn more about how TIAA-CREF made in · erore-tax o ars, you pay ess taxes now. And since all earnings on SRAs can help you enjoy many your SRA are tax-deferred as well, the happy returns. Btmeftt now .from ttW def~wll. C11ll our SRA hotline 1800-842-2733, e:a. 8016. Ensuring the future for those who shape it!M puter comp~tency on the Macintosh. Demonstrated initia,. tive and maturity ate required. S~bmit a resume and names of two references by Friday, April 22nd. Shadow an alumnus/a at his/her plabe of employment during Ca- reer Observation Days, April 26, 27. 28. Student Sign up are April ,11, l2, 13 in the CDC. For more information call the CDC at x 6176. Career explol1ation has never been easier. Don't miss out! Summer Camp: The William Osborn Day Camp of the Children's Aid Society is recruit- ing applicants for the camping season. See the CDC for further details. Summer Job: U.S. Environmen- tal Protection Agency, NY and NJ, is offering .a variety of sum- mer positions. Deadline 4/15/94. See the CDC for further details. Summer Intern: The John Drew Theater of Guilg Hall, East Hampton, NY, offers int~mships for those inte'rested in the per- forming arts. See the CDC for further details. International study !H Learn Hun,. garian in Budapest this summer. · Designed mainly for people of Hungarian·origin, but open ta all. Stop by the CDC farmoredetails on costs and howto apply forth is unique experience .. . Are you interested · in finding out a bout other people's love lives? Do you gossip constantly? Well, join the Coucordy staff and help with the personals/ classifieds section. Gay Awareness Week (April tO- April16) - \Blue Jeans Day\ April 11th Wear Blue Jeans for Support of Gay & - Lesbian Community AIDS Dance-a-thon April 16th, 1 PM - 1 AM, CC 2nd floor. .. Gay Awareness Week Movies April 12th - 8 PM CC406 Parting Glances and April 14th .. 8 PM CC406 Longtime Companion Admission is FREE \

SPORTS Men Swimmers Place Sixth in Nation by Lee Schachter Concordiensis Staff in the top sixteen in the nation in all five. TI1ey were in the top eight .in four of the five, placing After $endingjust two team 4th in the 4~0 medley .relay, 5th members to Nationals )ast year., . in the 400 free relay, 6th in the the Union Men's' Swimming 800Jteerelay, 7thinthe200free Dutchmen ·sent seven men to the , relay, and 15th in the 200 med- National Ch~pionsb:ig meet at .. ley relay.· Makarowskitook part WiiUamsoverspringbreak, Tli~·,, •of four relays, Bill Humphreys, result: the teatri. had its best fin,. Mike Humphreys, and Bowden ish ever in tile tileet- sixth place.;.· we.re in three reilays each, and was the tqp finisher in New Quarrier and Riley in two each, York Statef It was truly a phe- and Stuiltz was in one relay. Ev .. nomenal perfottnance ·by tbpse ~ryohe was instrtimental in the seven men- Bill Humph;reys, outc01ne ofthe meet. Chip Quarrier, Scott Bowden, Oj1 all individual level, Chris Riley,' Mike Humphreys, Bowden, Ma'karowski, ·arid Kevil) Makarowski, a11d Than Mikey tluiriphreys each placed in Stunt2;. the top sixteen in more than Olie All seven men were AU• event, American: UN~ELIEVABLE! In the 200 yard individual ined- ln other wotds~ ali seven men ley,.Bowden .. took second and placed in the top etght in the. na-. Makarowski took third. Bowden tion! Union qualified for Nation- also placed ninth in the 200 yard · als in all five relays; and placed freestyle and thirteenth in the 100 yard freestyle. Makarowski took ninth in the 400 individual med- ley. Humphreys came in fourth in the 100 backstroke, eighth in the 200 .backstro~e. and 1Oth in the 50 freestyle. TI1ese were tre .. men4ous accompiishm.e•Jts for these three swimmers. After the best National Cham- pionship perfonnance in school hi·story by far,. the team is relax- ing and.now awaits next season. As Mike Humphreyssays, \It was a hard-fought meet, and now we're looking forward to next year.\ His brother, senior co-.cap.- tain Bill Humphreys, said, \ l'm just proud of th'e team and I'm glad I could be a part of it.\ It was a great ending to a great season, and the m·en deserve a lot of credit. So if you see a swim- mer around campus, be sure to ·congratulate him on a fantastic season! Womeri Swimmers Place ··Ninth ,at Nationals by Lee Schachter Concordlensis Staff The ~omen's ~wim team swrun fantastically at the National Championships at Williams just before spring break. They took ninth in the nation, and ·looked good doing it. It was the third straight year that\ the-'Wometi''s team placed in the top ten in the n'ation. The women who took part. at.>'the ru.eet were Kelly Bevan, Jenn l;laldwin, Jent} . Allaire, Jonatha Meade, Eri Hayashi, Mo O'Donnell, Jackie Crane, CeCe Buchanan, and Amy Ambrosini. The team took top sixteen in ·all five relays, taking eighth in the 400 medley relay, the 200 med- l~y relay, and the 800 free relay, placing 11th in the 400 freestyle ·relay; ru1d 16th ·rn tl1e 200freestyle relay. All nine women partici- pated in these relays, a11d with gre$\t results. · Four women did especially well by placing .in the top sixteen in the nation in their individual events. Senior and co-captain Kelly Bevan came ineighth in the I 00 yard breaststroke, ninth in the 200 yard breaststroke, and 12th in the I 00 fly. Jackie Crane took fifth in the 1650 freestyle and 15th in both the 500 freestyle and the 200 yard fly. Jenn Allaire placed 15th iri the 200 yard back- stroke, and CeCe Buchanan placed 16th in the 1650 yard freestyie. All of the women had great per- formances IS NYCE AND SIMPLE! to help the t e a ·m achieve ex- ce'l1ence at Nationals once agam. After a Here's Why ... Now you can use your NYC~ ATM card for more than with- drawing cash from an ATM. Now you can use your NYCE ATM card to pay for your purchase at Boston Chicken. brreat season in which the women's team. won the last seven meets of the sea- son and won the It's a great way to pay. Just hand your card to the cashier • and enter your PIN (the same secret code you'd use at the ATM). The amount of your purchase will be automatically deducted from your account and you will receive a receipt for your records. The transaction will be detailed on your monthly bank statement. Look for the red NYCE logo at grocery stores. gas stations. fast food chains, department stores and many more retailloea ... tions where you live, work, shop and travel. Pay the NYCE and simple way! · SAVE $1.00 ' S t a t e Champion- ships, th.e women continued their sue- cess. ltwas a great ac-.· complish .. tnent, and the women c a m e through again. So·. congratula- . tions to the whole team as they en- joy their off-season and get ready for the next one! April 7, 1994, page 15 TbeKKorner . by Greg Kalish Associate Sports Editor Just Anything How sad it is. How upsetting that a great dy11asty is about to see its final trays because the two catalysts behind the success of the fran- chise are too immature to put their glory-hounding desires behind them and work for the good of the team. And when two men in such impor- . tant positions come to such ends, it is always the coach, the more important of the two, to go. That's not to say that the Dallas Cowboys are about to lose their hold on the NFC East or the rest of the NFL for that matter. After all, I could lead them to a division title with the talent they currently have on that team. It is the dissension that new coach Bany Switzer will not be able to handle. Players who once never wanted to leave the Cow- boys, will seek more money elsewhere in their free agency year. No, this is not the end of the Cowboy dy11asty, but this is no doubt the beginning of a very rapid decline, one that will reach nothing less than rock bottom if the egotistical owner, Jeny Jones, does not mend his ways and rid himself and his team of his George Steinbrenner•esque philosophies. Although it is probably not documented in the annals of sp011s his- tmy, one would be hard..,pressed to find a team as active at the trading deadline as were the New York Rangers two weeks ago. Interestingly enough, this activity was coming from a team with the best record in the league. General manager, Neil Smith, made not one, not two, but five trades, adding size and a certain nastiness to the team. To the casual hockey observer, one might wonder why a team with such a good record would make so many deals. So far, Smith looks like a genius as the Rangers have gone 4-1-1 in the six games since the trade. They're talking Stanley Cup in 1994 on Broadway, but I'm not- not yet anyway. The grass is green, the sun is shining, the seats an: filled, and base- ball is in the air. After the brutal winter endured by just about the entire country and especially the Northeast, was there ever a more welcome sight than the first pitch of the 1994 baseball season? Ifbase- ball is back, that means the Mets must be back too, trying to improve on their 103 loss season of a year ago. And while it will probably take more than just limiting the number of maximum arrests per player this season, as David Lettennan suggested, the Mets should be much bet• ter this year than last After all, the teams that go from worst to first are usually those that make the small, subtle moves, shoring up the defense and adding to the character of the team. The Mets have done so with additions such as Pete Smith, David Segui~ and Jose Viscaino. If nothing else, they're going to play their hearts out for us (or so their slogan says). Before I conclude, I would like to personally salute the Union Col- lege Skating Dutchmen and their most unbelievable season. Tf anyone had told me that this team would make the pJayoffs on the heels of a 10-game unbeaten streak, I would have thought them to be crazy. Not only did they make the playoffs, they sent the series to a third and deciding game, winning Game 1 in one of the most exciting, emo- tional, and enjoyable hockey games I have ever seen. Nevermind the losses in Games 2 and 3, this team played their hearts out and proved a point. Achilles will no doubt be a great place to be in 94-95! Baseball Continued-- Colltilluedfrompage 16 remaining five games on the Spring Training Schedule. Tiuee of these four loses came in extra inning play. Frustrated, but not \broken the Union Baseball Dutchmen took their 2-6 record north to start their regular season play. This past Friday, the Dutchmen traveled to the unfriendly con- . fines of Houston field, home of the RPI Engineers 1 last year's NCAA Tourney Team from the Eastem Region. 111 front of a large home crowd, the Engineers swept the Dutchmen in two high scor- ing games. . Pitchers Brian O'Connor and Paul Drumm took the losses in a game where the RPI fans crune equipped with a couple of kegs, a barbecue, and plenty of Union College Rosters as the Dutchmen \heard it from the crowd.'; The next day, the Union Men went on the road again to take on Hartwick College · at Do~esque Park, home of the · Oneonta \A\ Yankees. Union . again dropped another two games to a tough Warrior team behind the starting pitching of Brett Rubin and Keith Lombardo. The Dutchmen hope to turn around their slow start this week- end as they play two double head- ers against Hamilton and Utica College. Originally these games were scheduled to be played at Central Park, the home of your Union College Dutchmen, but the heavy snows of the winter have left the field unplayable for the time being. So the baseball team will be on the road again this weekend. Why not take a road trip this weekend, catch a ballgame, and support your col- 1egiate team. Anyone who at- tends a Dutchmen Baseball Game this spring will receive an autographed team baseball and a photograph of your favorite player. First come, first serve. Other promotional days include hat day, glove day, bat day, year- book and calendar day, and oth- ers. Next week's article: a list- ing of the promotional items with their corresponding home games and directions to Central Park, so continue to follow the team as the season gets into full swing.

I \' April 7, I 994 PAGE16 Crew Team Begins First Season in Higher Division Rowers Have Mixed Succ~ss Against Colgate in Seas:on's Only· Home Meet. by Steve Mooar Contributing Writer The emergence of Union as a strong New York rowing college last season, combined with the jump up to the next division of college rowing, has resulted in a drastic change in scheduling. Last Spring the team raced in many large regattas involving more than five colleges. How- ever, this Spring .most racing will be dual or tri races meaning only two or three schools involved. Also, the trip to the small school 17owing championships in Phila- delphia will not be made this year. Instead the crew teams are plan- ing on making the trip to Virginia in rnid-May for the Champion In- v.itational College Rowing Cham- pionships. The first dual race and the first step toward Virginia was taken this past Saturday at home against Co I gate. In order to gain as much experience as possible from the first race of the season it was de- cided that the crews would race best out of three. With the stipu- lation that if a crew loses the first two races, they can call for a thirci race. The novice heavyweight men were the first race of the day and were able to defeat Colgate in the firs.t two races. However, the Colgate novices called for a third race and only fell two feet short frorn handing the novice men their first loss of their young ca- reers. l11e women's varsity eights were the next race down the cottrse, bttt were unable to dupli- cate the perfonnance of the nov- ice rnen. TI1ey dropped two races to the Colgate women, but would redeem themselves latter with a 1.2 second victory in the open fours event. The novice women's team split its races with Colgate's novice women. The .second novice women's crew put in a strong per- formance sprinting away to an eleven second victory in the first race. They were unable to hold off Colgate in the next two races, but because Colgate switched rowers between races, only the first race ·counted in the official rankings. The first novice women's eight was able to hold off Colgate by a few feet in their first race. However, they dropped the nex:t two races for their first loss ofthe year. Both the varsity and JV heavy- weight men's eights were victo- rious on Saturday. The JV's only ran onerace and finished2.4 sec• onds in front ofthe Colgate JV's. The victory would have been by a greater margin, but one of the Union rowers caught a .crc:unp and they finished the race with only seven people rowing. Union's varsity eight got off to a rough start (both figuratively and liter- ally) in their first race losing by a yard. However, they would come back in the next two races and gather victories with margins of 1. 7 seconds and 1 .2 seconds. This victory was a large boost for crew moral, considering Colgate's heavy men were second in the state last year. Overall the racing was very exciting with crews dodging large pieces of ice in the Mohawk and six races being settled by under two seconds. The entire team continues to build momentum to- ward States and Nationals this Sunday at Ithaca. Ithaca College is the defending State Champi- ons in the four major event, var- sity men's heavyweight eight, novice men's heavyweight eight, varsity women's open eight. and novice women's open eight. 111is will be a good test to see how much progress the team has made since last Spring. Women's Varsity competes against Colgate. (photo by Josll Haines for tlleConcordiensis) Baseb:all Looks to Reboun.d Aft(fr Slow Start by Joe Saltzb;i#t Lyncb includes Freshman ,Jason ·· AssociateSports i{41tor Greenstein, Sophomores Michael ·· --~--__,,-·\\·'.,.. ... :..::;;--'\... 1 • .;;;.· ... ,._.__ Bernardo and James Knight,Jun- : The snow has aJlA)Ut melted, iors Keith Lombardo, Robert Ne- the air is no longer cold; apd the gro~ Scott Newton, Brian · trees have begun to bud~ Aaahhh, O'Connor; and Brett Rubin,· and the signs that spring is finally Sen'iorCaptain Paul Dmmm. TI1e here. But for all yoU·coiiegiate Catchers are Freshman Bill .baseball fans, spring began weeks Mehleisen and Senior Captain Joe · · ago with the start of your own Saltzbart. The position players Union College Baseball are: at first base, Freshman Dave Dutchmen's 1994 Season in Fort Bemstein and Bernardo; at second Meyers, Florida. Senior Captains base, Junior Dave Dagostino and John Aurora, Paul Drumm, Joe Senior Captain Kevin Sullivan; at Saltzbart, and Kevin Suliivan shortstop, freshmen Eric · traveled to Sunny FLA over K.ttiawski and Chip Mulkins; at spring break with their young and th·ird base, Sophomore Jamie inexperienced team to the Lee Haver. l11e outfielders are freshu County Collegiate Invitational to in an Mike Bullen. Bernarde take on teams from across the Knight, Lombardo, Mehleisen, , nation. This was the fourth year and Senior Captain John Aurora. in a row that Head Coach Gary After dropping their first two Reynolds and Assistant Coach games to Division II Millersville Mike Jones have taken their and top-ranked Division Ill AI- . squad to compete in this highly leEheny in Florida, the Dutchmen . regarded tournament atthe site.of defeated Missouri Valley in extra the old Minnesota Twins spring innings. Unfortunately, the Union ·complex. This year's Baseball Men encountered a bit of bad Roster includes a balanced mix- luck, winning only one of their ture of veterans and rookies. The pitching staff coached by Mike Conti11ued 011 Page 15 '·

'~ ; : i } i' onror· The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Volume CXXIII, Number XVIII Schenectady, New York April 14, 1994 /Nott a Pretty Site! by i>avid Levine Editor-in-cltief On Friday aften10on, the near flawless construction ofthe Nott Memorial could have taken a deadly tum when a fully extended crane came crashing down over the barricade fences and on to Rugby Field. Nobody was hurt in the accident; but there were some close calls. One construc- tion worker. who was standing on the platfonn of the crane as he operated it. was able to jump sev- eral feet to safety. Some Union students who were practicing golf on Rugby Field stood roughly 20 ft:ct from where the crane landed. According to Paul Mantica. head of Campus Safety. the shoe attached to the outrigger on the stabilizer leg. broke at a joint, causing the equipment to tilt. Once the heavy piece of equip- ment began to tilt, there was noth- ing the workers could do to pre- vent it from falling. Fortunately, Truck tf?sting on itS sfrle afletit}lipped Friday afternoon, /}i'illgillg aful/y extended crane down wit/1 it. the construction workers were able to react quickly, and as the crane began to topple, nearby stu- dents. heard the workers ye11ing. Freshman Stone Newma11, who was preparing the field for a mgby match, said that the crane itself did not make an incredibly loud noise when it hit the soft ground. Newman recalls. \TI1ere was a commotion after the crane fell.\ According to Mantica, after the (plloto by J. Haitles/TC) ' truck fell on its side, there was a spillage of diesel oil The con- continued on page 4 Jackson-Paris Couple \Puts a Face on the Monster\ by Michelle Ellis Concordiensis Staff Hundreds of students heard guest speakers Rod and Bob Jack- son-Paris discuss the stigma as- sociated with homosexuality last Thursday in the Memorial Chapel. Sponsored by the Peer Facilitators. the lecture was the first of the Diversity Lecture Se- ries and happened to coincide with Gay Pride Awareness Week. It was apparent that many stu- dents were willing and eager to know more as the leclure had to be moved from the College Cen- ter Auditorium to Memorial Chapel to accommodate all of the students. The Peer Facilitators have estimated Rod and Bob's audience to have been around dent body's preconceived notions love. He spoke of his fear of so- eight hundred. The audience con- of homosexuality and Rod and cietal rejection if he came \out sisted not only of Union students, Bob both suggested that this con- of the closet;\ therefore, he con- but local RPI and SUNY Albany ~ributed to the large student turn- tinued to hide his true self from students as well. l11e lecture was out. People perceive them visu- his family and peers. Rod em- even televised locally, although ally as a !'nice couple\ and it is phasized the loneliness and dif- this is not new to Rod and Bob, largely because of the visual para- ficulty of growing up as a homo- who have been ~n Oprah and dox with their projected public sexual, \You know you're differ- Donahue, as well as other nation- image in conjunction with €11t. You have nothing in society ally televised programs. society's negative homosexual that mirrors who you are; there- This event challenged the stu- stereotypes. Ironically, it is this fore, you feel out of place.\ curiosity that brings people into Bob spoke of similar insecuri- the lecture hall. ties and pains while growing up Rod and Bob began their talk and entering adulthood as a ho- by revealing their life stories mosexual. He also believed that through the spectrum of their love he did not fit into society and he affair and marriage. TI1ey attached succumbed to substance abuse in \a human face\ to a very contra- high school to escape reality. versial issue. Topics ranged from boycotts, high-school football games, proms, college fratemity scenes, substance abuse, and first loves. Rod and Bob wanted to make their experience a human experience, not pegging it as ho- mosexual or heterosexual. The speakers both spoke of u their individual struggle$ with ~ their homosexuality. Rod traced ~ the step by step mutilation of his :t spirit and the difficulty he had ~ coming to tenns with his sexual :orientation. Looking from the out- ~ side. it looked like he h·ad every· ] thing-he was athletic, personable, 0. and successful. But deep inside. Rod was screaming for help and co11timted on page 4 Inside: News •••..••..•....•••...... 2-4 World News .............. 6 Arts •••••••••••••••••eo•••••• 7-8 · Science ....... ~~~ ............... 9 OPtED·····\··············· 10 F ea tu res ... .. . .. .. ..• 11-14 Personals ................. 15 I Calendar ........... In••••• 16 Com·ics ..................... 17 Sports ................. 18-20

April 14, 1994, page 2 NEWS ij!lye <!!nn.cnrbiensi~ · Union College Campus Safety Department Incident Report for 4/4 ... 4/10 DATE/TIME LOCATION MONDAY, APRIL 4, 1994: 11:20 AM N ott Seward Lot TUESDAY, APRIL 5, 1994: 10:30 PM South College 1:05PM Sigma Phi 2·40 PM Butterfield Area 4·05 PM Fox House WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 1994: 1 0:30 AM Fox/Davidson Lot 10.:30 AM West College Lot 2:35AM Fox/Davidson Lot 3:16PM Davidson 9:13 PM Davidson THURSDAY, APRIL 7, 1994: 1:24PM Fox House 4:28PM Silliman Hall Area 5:25PM Raymond/Potter Lot 9:38PM Fox House FRIDAY. APRIL 8, 1994: 2:25AM 9:30AM 2:25PM 3:23PM 4:49PM 6:38PM 8:57PM 10:06 PM West College Smith House Alumni Gym Lot Nott Memorial Union Avenue Social Science Bldg Webster House Fox House SATURDAY. A~RIL 9, t994: 12:05 AM McKean House 1:55AM West College 12:30 PM West College 10:50 PM McKean House SUNDAY. APRIL 10, 1994: 8:34AM · Alumni Gym 10:30 AM 4·15 PM I 7:5oi>M Psi Upsi.Jon Lot Fox House North College INCIDENT PAitKlNG VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized. Unregis tered repeat violator. . VANDALISM/LIFE. SAFETY VIOLA TlON: Damage to and tampering with 2 room smoke detectors. Life Safety Notice filed. SAFETY HAZARD: Electrical deficiencies·. Electricians notified. Report filed. THEFT: Faculty member's bike stolen. Lock chain was cut. HARASSMENT: Student harassed by another student. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized. Vnregis tered repeat violator-Freshman. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized. Unregis tered repeat violator-Freshman. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized. Unregis tered repeat violator. FIR·E ALARM/LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Caused by tampering with room smoke detector. Life Safety Notice filed. THEFT: Cash stolen from student's wallet. TRESPASS/ATTEMPTED THEFT: Visitor attempted to remove sever~! bags of empty cans. Chased off by fraternity cook. Suspect located off campus and identified. Warned off campus. SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Intoxicated visitor wandering camp.ils. Identified and escorted off campus. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized. Unre~is tered Repeat violator. TRESPASS: Two univited visitors .entered house and were bothering residents. Located, identified and arrested for trespass. SPD called to assist Campus Safety Officers LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Tampenng with room smoke detector. Life Safety Notice filed: VANDALISM: Exterior of house smeared with ketchup. THEFT: Truck bedliner stolen from student's vehicle. CONSTRUCTION ACCIDENT: Large crane toppled over. No personal injury. Minor fuel spill-contained. HARASSMENT: Female student followed by non-student. Description of person and vehicle given to Campus Safety Officers. VANDALISM: Door lock damaged. HARASSMENT: Students (non-residents of building) harassing residents inside of the building VANDALISM: Door mullion knocked down. unable to secure the door. Recurring problem Maintenance called in for repair FIRE ALARM: Caused by smoking. Fire Safety' Officer to check the detector for cleaning!replaoement. THEFT/HARASSMENT: Student took Security Assistant's eyeglasses. Conduct Charges filed. VANDALISM/LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Fire extinguisher from 3rd floor lounge discharged then thrown out of window SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Intoxicated visitor wandering campus Iaentified and escorted off campus EQUIPMENT FAILURE: Upon re-~ctivation of Spnnkler System a sprinkler head burst. Water flow contained. Repair scheduled VANDALISM: Window broken in visitor's vehicle VANDALISM/SAFETY .HAZARD.: Doorhandle remo~ed from student's room ·door. VANDALISM/SAFETY HAZARD: Student's room door jammed shut Locksmith called in for repair.

<(fiqe. ctrnurnrbiensis ' .. NEWS April14, 1994, page 3 Etienne, Wolff Awarded Watson Fellowships by Caroline Paine News Editor Seniors William Wolff an.d Jacques Etienne are this year~s recipi,ents of the Thomas J. Watson Fellowship. The fellow- ship was established in 1961 by Mrs. T110mas J. Watson Sr., as trust i1t honor of her late husband. Origmally the Foundation used its resources to support several chari- table programs. Seven years later, in 1968, the Foundation deemed that it would promote a fellow- ship program, to further education in the area of world affairs. The Watson fellowship allows students to study a subject of per- sonal interest for one year abroad. Students from fifty colleges na- tiOnwide are eligible to apply for the feUowship. There is no for- mal requirement of an oral pre- sentation or paper upon the completion of each study. After the participants' travels are com- Union Choir Performs at WPI by Larry Paska Concordiensis Staff The Union College Choir, un- der the direction of Music pro- fessor Hugh Allen Wilson, per- formed Carl Orff's Carmina /Jurana last weekend as part of a combined choir at Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPI). The combined choirs featured Umon, the Holy Cross College Choir, the WPI Glee Club, the Wells College Concert Choir. and the New England Chorale. pre- senting the 70-minute piece to an audience of over 400 at th~ school in Worcester. Massachu- setts. The Union College Choir has been perfom1 ing with WPI for many years. This year's piece was conducted by John Minasian of the. New England Chorale. The Carmma Hurana is a collec- tion of more than 200 poems probably written in the 12th and 13th century France and Ger~ many. the text being composed in Medieval Latin mixed with Gennan and French. The poems were hidden until the nineteenth century due to their disreputable nature. Orff combined the~e po- ems to create a work combining medieval themes in modem day terms. TI1e piece was written in the mid-1930's. Also featured in the concert at WPI was a performance of the Hrandmhurx ('once rio #5, with Wilson perfonning on the harp- sichord. and Liz Maranville '94 on the violin and Carin Gado '96 playing flute. Prior to the per- forlnance of the Carmina Hurmw. the combined choirs sang Aaron Copland's l11e !'rom- . ise t?fl,h>inx. under the diJ'ection of Bruce I. Miller. the conductor of the Holy Cross Choir. Miller also had several baritone solos in the < 'qrmma Jlurana. The Union College Choir will continue to rehearse this tenn, planning to perform Brahms's Requiem·.later this spting. ~ . . . William Wolff (left), and Jacques Etienne (right) are Union's two Watson Fellowsllip recipients. pleted, they are invited to share gland, France, Switzerland, and their findings at a Watson Fellow- Gennany. There he plans to see ship Conference. l11e program is the same sights Elliot experi- . designed to encourage the pursuit enced, write poetty and compare of knowledge for its own sake. his own to that ofEHiofs written Wolffwas awarded the fellow- in the same place. \I want to ship in order to do an in-depth know what he [Elliot] felt and the study on the travels and poetry of emotion he received from differ- T. S. Elliot. \I first read Elliot in ent places during varying times my freshman year,\ said Wolff. of year,\ Wolff explained. \ I \His style has a ~:,>reat effect on my want to see if these places will own.\ Wolff intends to leave the stimulate the same emotional re- United States for Europe in Au- gust of this year and travel to En- sponse in myself.\ Etienne, also a recipient of the Watson Fellowship, plans to study the influences of industry on tra- ditional open air markets with his fellowship. Originally from Haiti, Etienne is very familiar with the cultural significance of open air markets. \I went on a term abroad to Brazil,\reflected Etienne. \l11e markets there reminded me of the Haitian markets, except they had different levels of industry present.\ In August, Etienne will travel to Kenya, the Philippines and back to Brazil in order to com- (photos by Jen Allrens!TC) pare the presence of manufac- tured goods in the markets of these cmmtries. He hopes to dis- cover the effects of having manufactured goods in these tra- ditional cultural settings. Wolff and Etienne will receive $15,000 for their expenses dur- ing their Watson excursions. l11ey will study abroad for a one year period. Both feel very for- tunate to have won the fellow- ship and to have this great op- portunity. ANNOUNCING THE FOURTH ANNUAL STEINMETZ SYMPOSIUM May 6, 1994 From 12:50 - 9:30 Friday Before Prize Day Students from all classes and aU disciplines: Come see your peers present their creative, scholarly, or research projects at the Steinmetz Symposium. The Symposium will start with an opening session at 12:50 PM in the College Center. Oral sessions begin at 1:15, 4:00, and 5:25 PM with a poster sessions from 2:40 to 3:55PM. The Symposium culminates in a banquet in Old Chapel to honor presenters, faculty participants, and parents, followed by the Steinmetz Concert in Memorial Chapel with the Union College Orchestra and Choir. The concert will premier Nightscape, and original student composition.

I .. April14, 1994, page 4 NEWS Cool Named Dean of Faculty : To Assume Positi()n in July by Charlie Casey Public Relatiolls President Hull announc~d that Linda Evers Cool, associate aca- demic vice president at Marist College, has been named vice presidentforacademic affairs and dean offaculty at Union. Cool will be responsible for the College.'s academic program in- cluding the library, cmnputer cen- ter, support services and athletics. Cool is to begin July I. She succeedsJames Underwood, who has announced his plans to retum to teaching in the College's po- litical· science department. \Linda Cool joins Union as we enter our Bicentennial year,\ Hull said. \She will play a decisive role as we refine our distinctive blend ofliberal arts and engineer- ing, of undergraduate research and international experience for the 21st centmy and our third cen- tury of service.\ Cool earned her B.A. from Bryn Mawr College, aad her Ph.D. from Duke University, both in anthropology. As associate academic vice president at Marist, a post she has held since 1987, she was responsible for the aca- demic programs and evaluation, faculty evaluation, the library, academic computing, academic advising, the media and learning centers, career planning and placement, international educa .. tion and other special academic programs.. She· also taught courses in anthropology, Before joining Marist, Cool heJd .teaching posts at Santa Clara University and Vassar College. Her teaching and research in .. terests include cultural anthropol- ogy, psychological anthropolot,')', ethnicity, human development and aging, the history of family structure, sociolinguistics, Euro- pean immigration to the U.S., and Westem Europe and the Mediter- ranean culture areas. She has received research fel- lowships and awards from the National Science Foundation, Social Science Research Council and the National Endowment for the Humanities and Award for Teaching Excellence and Santa Clara University. She has published articles in a number of scholarly joumals in- cluding the Internal ional.Joumal of Aging and H11man Develop- ment, Anthropological Quarterly, and the JoumalqfSocial History, and has contributed a number of chapters to anthologies and text- books. In addition, she regularly .·:: .- -~ Linda Cool will assume tl1e position of Dean of Faculty after James U11derwoodsiepsdown · has presented papers at national; and international conferences. She is a fellow of the Ameri- can Anthropological Association and a member of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the American Asso- ciation for Higher Education, the Eastern association of College Deans, the Gerontological Soci- ety, the New York Academy of Sciences, and the Society for the Anthropology of Europe. She was co-founder and past president of the Association for Anthropol-· ogy and Gerontology and has served the National. Science Foundation both as a panelist and chak of evaluation panels in the annual NSF I:,e11owship competi- tion. A Near Disaster at the Nott Homosexual Couple Speaks to Large \Crowd Continuedf!om page 1 struction company contained the spill, and began to work on dis- membering the crane so that it could be removed from the site of the accident. According to Steve Lamp, in charge of coordinating construc- tion on the Union campus, the fences are set up to provide maxi- mum protection for passersby. However~ according to Lamp, \We cannot design the whole campus around three hours of crane use.\ TI1e cranes are not a major part of the construction process. Paul Pothier, the project super- intendent from Martini Construc- tion Company, says there are no precautions the school or the company could have taken to pre- vent the accident. Pothier claims the fence is constructed at the optimal distance from the Nott so as to provide the most safety, while keeping valuable land ac- cessible to students. The amount of land contained by the fencing is \usable but not excessive\ according to Pothier. The crane was defective, ac- cording to Pothier. \It is the responsibility of the equipment owner to make it safe so nothing happens.\ \We are very fortunate that nobody was hurt and there was no destruction to property.\ Mar- photo by F. Jeremy .. ,.. ....... , tini did have to spend some ad- ditional money to pay overtime to the workers who helped at cleaning up the slte. Continued from page 1 Finally, Bob realized that drugs were not the solution and instead channeled his efforts into weight training. After winning a series of titles for weight training Bob met Rod in a gym in Colorado, and thus began their courtship. The two related their history to- gether with humorous anecdotes and made it evident that their be- ginnings together were no differ- ent than any heterosexual couple, they were giddy and silly and yet had their share of difficult times. Both Rod and Bob stressed the importance -of separating sex from sexuality. They insisted that society has pre-conditioned people to think of homosexual sex before sexuality and that this response is inappropriate and negative. For some reason, soci- ety has trained people to auto- matically associate homosexuals with their behavior in the bed- room, while no one makes such associations with heterosexual sex. Rod blames society for con- tinuing to perpetuate false myths and ostracize homosextrals. So- ciety preaches that homosexual- ity is wrong and reinforces this by encouraging heterosexuals to condemn homosexuals. Rod and Bob challenge these stereotypes COMING NEXT WEEK: and call for diversity, which they believe is the key to making life rich and fulfilling. Both Rod and Bob confronted the controversial connection be- tween religious theory and homo- .sexual.ity. They stated that soci- eties use religious beliefs to jus- tify hatred of groups of peoples. Drawing on the rights established in the First Amendment, Rod said that we are all entitled to have our own beliefs, but \your beliefs must end where my Civil Rights begin.\ Rod and Bob encourage and champion heroic individualism. l11e couple believes tl1at they can dispel society's negative homo- sexual stereotypes ·and bias. In addition, they feel obligated to help the Gay and Lesbian youth in the nation come to tenns with their homosexuality, lesbianism, or bisexuality in a positive light. Both Rod and Boh's inner battles may appear to be subdued but their battles still violently rage through the voices of political and social activism. Until society accepts homo- sexuals and realizes that they con- tribute to our country's diversity, then couples like Rod and Bob will conti11tre to demand their right to live like everyone else. A Special Issue of The l;oncordiensis Keep informed fot details. \

• rs 1- IS :e d e i· l NEWS BRIEFS - \ International News: Rwanda: An estimated 20,000 people are dead as a result of the violence that began last week between the ethnic tribes, after the President of Rwanda was killed when his plane was shot down. The U.N. has not been success- ful in its attempts to negotiate a cease- wo ld N fire. The United States State Depart- r. · ews --------- ment announced that all of the approxi- mately 250 U.S. citizens that were trapped inside the country last week when the fighting began have all been evacuated. Bosnia: They are still fighting in the Balkans .. National Briefs: Massachusetts: The state legislature past a law mandating the constntction of two female. restroom to one male restroom in pub- 1 i c facilities. Washington, D.C. : Bill and Hillary Clinton paid $14,615 .in back • · taxes and interest on $6,498 in unreported capital gains Hillary · Rodham Clinton eamed from commodities trading in J 980. California: Less than three months after the Northridge earthquake caused two portions oflnterstate 10, the world's busiest freeway, to collapse, the interstate reopened. The construction on the inter- state was completed in amazing speed because there was a reward for the workers if the project was completed ahead of schedule. John's Hopkins University: Researchers at Johns Hopkins Uni- versity have tested a compound isolated from broccoli and found that it protects rats agamst breast cancer. Supreme Court: Rep. George Mitchell announced on Monday that he was not interested in replacing Justice Blackman on the court. Mitchell said that he was not interested because he was not certain how his nomination would affect the passage of Clinton's healthcare package. Social Security: New statistics predict that the Social Security fund will be depleted in 2036, because of the aging baby boom. Social Security's disability trust fund could be broke by 1995, while Medicare will be depleted in another seven years. WORLD NEWS April 14, 1994, page 5 . Farrakhan is a Hate Monger Reverend's support indicates a growth in anti-Semitism by David Levine Editor-in-cl1iej Did World War II teach Ameri· cans that permitting scapegoating can have disastrous implications? Some people say that the Holo· caust has received too much atten- tion in terms of retrospective cov· erage by the media and textbooks. Many Germans elucidate that they are growing tired ofhearing about the atrocities and bigotry associ- ated with Gennany and Nazism. Yet, anti-Semitism is on the rise in Germany once again. WORLD NEWS OP.INION Even more disturbing than these opinions, is the growing support for Louis Farrakhan in the United States. Farrakhan claims he instills a sense of pride in Afri can·Ameri- cans about their culture. What has become painfully obvious is that Farrakhan cannot deliver any of his aJJeged inspiring speeches without degrading Jewish people. 111is is especially insulting given that Jews and Blacks have tradi- tionally been the two groups which have received the brunt of racial and ethnic prejudice. Yet, Jewish leaders have never targeted blacks as scapegoats. Wake up America! Louis Farrakhan is a demagogue. and the growing support of this so- called Reverend, in conjunction with the popularity of other hate- mongers such as D~vid,puke, is sufficient evidence that anti- Semitism is a real problem in this country. The Anti-Defamation Leagi1e follows the speeches ofFarrakhan, and their recently released re· - search report titled F'arrakhan Unchanged: The Continuing Message of Hale monitors \the ongoing record of racism and anti-Semitism by Louis Farrakhan and the Nation of Is- lam.\ Many people argue that Farrakhan has downplayed the anti·Semitic sentiment which is usually a part of his speeches. The Reverend was invited by members of the student body of the University of Massachusetts at Amherst to speak on March 9. In the educational arena, Farrakhan was expected to focus mostly on \black pride,\ but he evidently could not resist degrad- ing Jewish people. . \Jews think your life is more sacred than the goyim, the gen· tile and the Arab.\ \The holocaust of the Jews is comparable to the holocaust of the black people. But you think you are better than us.\ In his speeches, Farrakhan fre· quently explains that the Jews are responsible for \the problems that have been haunting and plaguing the Afro-American community for the past 40 years.\ At his Match 4 speech in Palm Beach, the following publications were offered for sale. \The Hoax of the Twentieth Century,\ \The Case Against the Presumed Extennination of Eu- ropean Jewry.,\ \The Jews and tl1eir Lies,\ \The Jewish On· slaught,\\The Ugly Truth About the-ADL.\ Abraham Foxman, national di- rector of the ADL, questions the popularity of Farrakhan 's hate· mongering. \Why does the need to instill pride in the African·American community require scapegoating Jews? How does his [Farrakhan's] message of hate keep black youth off drugs and in school?\ Melvin Salberg, national chair- man oftheADL, is confident that Americans will refute Farrakhan's message. \We have consummate faith in the American people to under- stand and separate out truth from hateful demagoguery out of the mouth of Minister Farrakhan and his messengers. When one sepa· rates fact from malicious fiction you see the typical demagogue's appeal to the basest nature 1m- mankind is capable of. We be- lieve in Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s dream and invite all groups to work with us toward achiev- ing Dr. King's hope for the black community and for all Ameri· cans.\ Among religious t.rroups, Jews are typically one of the most phil· anthropic. Jews do not ask for praise for their \good-will ges· tures,\ and they most certainly do not deserve to be the target of hatred from the African-Ameri- can community. Until Farrakhan is condemned by the African- American community for the anti·Semitism which he spreads, these leaders are promoting hate and most definately refuting Mar- tin Luther King Jr.'s message of equality. The Repercussions of Action in Korea by Craig Greenberg World News Editor With tensions rising on the Ko- rean Peninsula, I thought it impor- tant to stop and examine the vari- ous options that the United States cmrently has in regards to its for- eign policy for the region. WORLD NEWS OPINION Since the end of the Korean · War, America has swom to pro- tect South Korea. There have been American soldiers on the Northem Border since that time, and the United States has included South Korea in its Pacific Defense scheines along with Japan. Some people think that this new nuclear threat from the North calls for swift Amencan action to save the region from a tenible threat. Oth- ers believe America has interfered too much in other nation's inter- ests already and would like to see our country stay out of other nat1on 's problems. But what d<:> the people ofSot!th Korea think? I spent one night last week watching South Korean students bum American flags on my teJe. vision. l11is startled me. I never stopped to think what the South Korean people thought about us determining the fate of their na· tion and way of life. You see, that is exactly what we are do· in g. We know the Clinton Admin- istration will not allow Nortl1 Ko· rea to sell nuclear weapons to terronsts. Therefore. we know the U.S. govemment is hoping for a war. Sure, they wish one wasn't necessary, but if North Korea refuses to stop production of nuclear materials, there is no other way. This result is that we would obviously win the war, but we would win at a terrible cost. South Korea would be overrun and destroyed before the U.S. could retake it and crush the North. The South Korean economy and infrastmcture would be shattered. People in South Ko· rea would have their living stan· dards fall throllgh the floor. TI1ey would lose all of their economic competition with Japan and other Pacific Nations, and they would be left to rebuild while Americans tumed their attention to the next \hot spot\ ofthe world. It is not my intention to oppose American involvement in this cur- rent crisis. I am simply trying to explain why you may see South Koreans buming our flag on tele- vision. We will be playing with their lives and futures. Actually, despite the repercus- sions, I believe we must interfere to protect the long-range future of South Korea, Pacific Nations, and the world from nuclear terrorist attacks which could occur without our \interference.\ -,~ '<' ., e ;··~ . . : ...;· . ·-!.,9.-t':,: -~~.f,_\ J:'(',. )h,~ .. \·· l -·

April14, 1994, page 6 ADS The Union College Philosophy Department is pleas~d to announce that Professor David Gauthier,. Distinguished Service professor of Philosophy at the University of Pittsburgh will be the 1994 Visiting Spencer-Leavitt Professor of Philosophy. Since the publication of \Morals by. Agreement\ in 1986, Professor Gauthier has been recognized as one.of the most influ- · ential philosophers working in moral theory today. The publication of \Moral Dealing\ ·in 1990 solidified his reputation. During his two weeks at Union, Professor Gauthier will be lecturing to students and faculty in open class sessions (that is, sessions which are open to visitors).and will be presenting two public lectures which are scheduled as follows. Aprill9 April20 April 21 May 2 May 3 May 4 May 4 T 1:30 \An Introduction to \Morals by Agreement, l\ Open Class Session, Bioethics, Prof. Baker, Hum II 0 w I 0:00 \The Prisoner's Dilemma\ Open Class Session, Logic and Critical Thinking, HU 11 0 3:45 Philosophy Colloquium \Rational Morality,\ Hum 110 Th I :30 \An Introduction to \Morals by Agreement, II\ Open Class Session, Bioethics, Prof. Baker, Hum 110 M 2:25 Open Class Session, Ethical Theory, Prof. Davis, Hum. 114 T 6:00 Dinner with the Kappa Alpha Society w w 9:00 \Reflections on Being A Philosopher,\ Phil Forum, at Kappa Alpha. 2:25 Open Class Session, Ethical Theory. Pro. Davis, Hum. 114 7:30 \The Making of Jean-Jacques Rousseau: Autobiography & Philosophy\ College Center Auditori urn MacinflJslr LC 575 81160, fnlemaJ JffJ/eClJTM J()()i Plus CD-ROM Drive, /ilPie\ [{eyboard D atzd mowe. Power8Qoll' 165 4/80. Power Macin/osh7M 7100166 81250, MacinJosll' Color Display, Af1Jie\ Extended [(eyboard If and mouse. Giving people more value for their money has made Macintosh\ the best-selling available within your budget. Meaning you get it all. Power. Quality. And afford- personal computer on campuses and across the coun- try for the past two years: And that~ a trend that Affordable computers from Apple. ability. It's .that simple. So, if that sounds Uke v.alue is likely to continue. Because there are Macintosh and PowerBook\ models . · to you, visit your Apple Campus App.t · .'- Reseller today. And leave your dictionary at home. [e . Con~tCharksBosworiliat Union Co ., ·. i'JBookstore-· ·.· .-. College Center, 2nd Floor • 388-6188 . ' . '~'' . .· . . .·_.·,;t· ,1'\0r-o·:t,.,- -:$,q\~' ... ~\ ,• 'lJa/aqtleJI, 1991. ©1994 tl{lll8 Compu!er, hzc. All rlghls resmJed Apple, ihe Apple logo, MaclnJosb, Madntosb f)tJadra and Power Book tm regislered lral.fetlttiTks of A/JI![e Computer, lnc.lljlpleCD, AppleColor andAlldiol'isllm are Jrademarlls of ti/JfJle Computer; Inc. '· ·I ,. '

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT April14, 1994, Page 7 Death of Kurt Cobain Shocks MTV Generation '. ·' by Leen~ Mank.ad Concordiensis Staff type rock and became popular with (heir breakthrough album, Nevermind, in 1987. Smells Like There was a tragic loss this past Teen Spirit, the hit single from week in. the rock~and•roll world that album, portrayed the raw and with th.e death of singer Kurt angry outlook of the world by Cobain. At the age of27, the lead Cobain. His deepfeelings ofpes- singer of the group Nirvana took simism toward the world fueled his own life by shooting .himself many unique songs such as this in the head last Friday. An elec- one. trician found him that morning in Cohain was an extremely his Seattle home along with a sui- troubled individual. Last month cide note discussing his lonliness . he was hospitalized for a near- and empti- ----~----~------ fatal over- ness. He \Cobain's death shows the dose of al- ended the note by saying, \It's better to burn out than fade away.' type of society we are living in and the weakness that pre,rails in the cohol and tranquiliz- ers, which authorities f d 91 are now re- warped world o to ay. P 0 r tin g - Lori Raphael was also a ---------='----~~~ suicide at~ Cobain was married to singer Courtney Love and had a daughter Prances Bean. Love, who was out of town at the time of the suicide, was dev- astated and shocked. Fans are also dismayed by the singer's death. Cobain and Nir- vana were known for their grunge tempt. The fragile rock star was .thought to have been involved in problems both with the band and his marriage. Cobain had an uneasy child- hood; his parents divorced when he was eight and this caused a good deal of instability in his early life. He also told Roiling Stone magazine in a recent inter- view, that he had been diagnosed with irritable bewel syndrome and for the past seven years the pain had become unbearable. Cobain said, \I wanted to kill my- self everyday. I came very close many times.\ His feelings of anguish were expressed in many song lyrics and inter- views. As reported on MTV late Friday afternoon , the rock and roll world is losing a very gentle and talented young man. His death, along with other young singers such as Jimi Hendrix and Jim Morrison, was needless and preventable. Shock Briup About Teens Own Thoughts 'Of Suicide For many teenagers the death of Kurt Cobain brought out their own thoughts of suicide., A.s :ar .result, MTV advertised ton . free numbers fo.r teens to call for ·someone ta talk t&. Many· teens fe.lt this shock was akin to the death of River Phoenix and John Lennon. The director of the national teen line said . that suicide calls increased from an average of 2 of 150 calls to 8 of 150, after tbe announcement of Cobai~ 's death. A botllne number to call for counseling (800) 448-3000. Local Arts and Entertainment Calendar THURSDA Y.APRIL 14 DEAR LIAR: The play adapted from the correspondence of George Bemard Shaw and Mrs. Patrick Campbell by Jerome Kilty. Steamer No. 10 Theatre, Inc., 500 Westem Ave. Albany. 8 pm, $7/students, $9/adults. 438-5503. OKLAHOMA!: 50th Anniversary Celebration of Rodgers and Hammerstein's · musical, Oklahoma. Proctor;s Theatre, 8 pm, $32.50 - $22.50 346-6204. FRIDAY. APRIL 15 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: \The Pelican Brief,\ 7:30 & I 0 p.m., $2. . DEAR LIAR: See 11ntrsday. April 14. SATURDAY. APRIL 16 COLLEGE CENTER AUO. ·FILM: See Friday, April 15. DEAR LIAR: See Thursday, April 14. PIANIST DUBRA VKA TOMSIC: Will perfonn by Beethoven, · ·Sonata Op. Nl inl~':flat, Sonala Op. 53 ill ( · nu{ior, by Chopin, Sonata Op. 35 ill H:flat minor, Andante Spianato and Gran Polonaise Brillallfe, Op. 22. Union College's Memorial Chapel. Schenectady, 8 pm, $12, $6/student. 382-7890. SUNDAV, APRIL 17 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: See Friday, April15. DEAR LIAR: 2 pm, See Thursday, April 14. MONDAY. APRIL 18 COLLEGE CENTER AlJD. FILM: See Friday, April 15. FINCKEL ENSEMBLE: Program includes a transcription of Schubert's ''Arpeggioni Sonata'' by Michael Fincke!. Helen Froehlich Auditorium, Hyde Collection, 161 Warren St, Glens Falls. 8 pm. $12/adults, $5/students. 793-4054. TUESDAY. APRIL 19 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: \The Blues Brothers,\ 8 & lO pm, $1. WEDNESDAY. APRIL 20 FICTION WRITER JANE SMILEY: Author of A Thousand Acres. The Greenlanders. Duplicate Kays, At Paradise Gate, Bam Blind, 1he Age l?(Grief Ordinary /,{J\\e & Good Will. 3303 Sage Building, Rensselaer Polyt~chnic Insti- tute, Troy, 8 pm. 442-5620. THURSDAY, APRIL 21 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM:. \Carlita's Way\ 7:30 & lO pm, $2. DEAR LIAR: See 11mrsday, Apri114. POET JORIE GRAHAM: Autl1or of poetry including, Erosion, The End of Beauty. Region l?{ l!nlikeness. The Best American Poetry. Recital Hall, Performing Arts Center, University at Albany's uptown campus, 8 pm. 442-5620 . FRIDAY, APRIL 22 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: \Mrs. Doubtfire,\ 8 & 10 p.m., $2. DEAR LIAR: See Thursday, April 14. A HATFUL OF RAIN: Michael V. Gazzo's drama about a family caught in the web of dmg addiction and deceit. Spa Little TI1eater, Saratoga Spa State Park. 8:15pm, $14-$12. 587-4427. \SWING SPRING\: Fonner Manhattan Transfer vocalist, Laurel Masse, featured. Troy Savings Bank Music Hall, 8 pm, $12. 273- 0038. CONTINUOUS EXHIBITS: FEBRUARY 5 • MAY 15 WORKING WITH TRADITION: The Academic Artist: Paintings, sculptures, lithographs and more by SUNY faculty artists. New York State Museum in Albany. 474-1201. JANUARY 21 - MAY 29 THE GURLEY SMART COLLECTION: Historic Surveying Instru- ments featured. New York State Museum in Albany. 4 7 4-120 I JANUARY 22 • JULY 8 . SELLING THE GOODS: Products and advertising in Albany. Albany . . .. ·, ,, . ...... . . ,. \· ~ ·:. of History & Art, Albany. 464-4478. ·· .· ~.:': . ·· .· Compiled by Suzanne Robinson/Concordiensis Staff II • •\ ~ ......... ··= \· \' .. . . ~ ' It ~

·April 14, 1994, Page 8 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT The Reel Picture: Major League II by Larry Paska Concordiensis Staff \MAJOR LEAGUE II.\ Staring Charlie Sheen, Tom Berenger, Corbin Bernsen, Omar Epps, Mar- garet Whitton,. Alison Doody, Michelle Burke, Bob Uecher. Directed by Oavid S. Ward. Mor .. gan Creek Production.s/ Warner Bros. Pictures,. RatedPG. RATING: ** {out of four) by Larry Paska There are many ways to make a predictable sequel to a predictable hit film. You can place the main charac- ters in a new situation and have them go through the same expe- riences again. You can keep the main characters in the same situ- ation . and have them go through slightly new experiences. Or, you can keep the main characters in the same situation and have them go through the same experiences again. All three possibilities guaran- tee a money-making film (assum- ing its predecessor was a big hit), but it takes true intelligence to fol- low the second e?'ample, the most original of all. But then, considering the cre- ative talent (or lack thereof) be- hind the productign of Mqjor League II, the follow-up to the 1989 baseball hit, a sequel dis- playing any sign of maturity and originality would be as impos- sible to find as the lost city of Atlantis. For those who have .seen the first, picture the latest O\lting ex- actly the same, right down to the glorified entrances made by the ballplayers in their limousines, motorcycles., and so on. Of course, there is a small bit of change: Sheen rides in a limo, not on a bike; Bemsen bought the · team; Berenger can miraculously play ball again, even with that bad knee. For those who missed it, the Cleveland Indians are in trouble ... again. l11ey can't afford to keep playing, since owner Bernsen paid too much for the team from ex-o'Wller Whitton. So, they being their losing streak again, and for no logical reason. If they played well before. what's their problem this time? So, it's up to good old determination, luck, and teamwork to save the day ... again. As in the first film, the climax is easily seen and called by the audiences within the first few min- utes. As Sheen steps out of limo accompanied by his high-class girlfriend, is it that surprising he will revert back to the stupid hair- cut and be called \Wild Thing\ like in the old days? Even the casting of Omar Epps as Willie Mays'-Hays, taking over Wesley Snipes's role, is unsurpris-ing. Snipes knew when to move on to films that can: improve ilfi image; he is not •. ·mJssed here, as Epps does an amazingly accu- rate. imitation of the fanner's ·mannerisms. Bob Uecher, ret~1rning as he sports commentator, delivers the only funny lines in the entire film. With such qialogue as \the Indi- ans are showing signs of life- they appear to be beating the crap out of each other,\ Uecher is far too good for this film, and that doesn't say much. Mqjor League II suffers from dull photography and equally dull characters, poorly misjudging the audien.ce's patience with such material. Sadly. it strikes out with- out ever reaching first base. March must be the movie month of Charlie Sheen: early in March, he starred in l11e ( 'hase, the worst excuse for a sex scene in a fast- moving vehicle .. Now this. Hey, Charlie, quit pitching fouls at us! It's getting embarrassing for you. Save the Grammy for Morrissey by Edward W. Abbott, III Contributing Writer With his latest effort, \Vauxhall & I.\ Morrissey re- turns to the form of his earlier works with the Smiths. and the difference is incredible. 1l1ere are no weak tracks on this disc and. all eleven tracks are original, not the usual holdovers from a previ- ous release. It also lacks the rockabilly guitar of \Your Arse= nal\ and \Bona Drag,\ but the melodic change from \grunge\ to the beauty and depth of the Smiths' work is a wonderful. Morrissey returns to the des- perate whining that has endeared him to so many fans and that pro- duces the strongest emotional re- sponse. Even though Boz Boorer is no Johnny Marr. his·skill eas- ily compliments Morrissey's lus- cious and luxurious voice. This is not a disc for the faint of heart. It is a heart-wrenching experience of self-doubt and the hurt of unfulfilled promises. One of the most powerful tracks, \Hold On To Your Friends,\ in- vokes the same feelings of \Please. Please, Please, Let Me Get What I Want,\ from his ear- lier work with the Smiths, ten years earlier. Morrissey cries on \Why Don't You Find Out For Yourself': \I've been stabbed in the back so many times I don't have any skitl but that's just the way it goes.\ While one could easily call this the best album of Morrissey's ca- reer, I am going to venture that this could possibly be one of the best Altema-Pop releases of the new year. The Union College Department of Visual Arts Cordially invites you to the Top Ten-Singles of TheWe.ek 1. MARIAH CAREY- \'Without You\ 2. ACE OF BASE. -''The Sign~' 3. RICHARD MARX- \Now & Forever'' · 4. ALL-4-0NE- ~'So Much in Love\ 5. MEAT LOAF-· \Rock 8?· Rol~ Drfl!ams Come True\ 6. BRUCE SPRiNGSTEEN-. ·\Streets of Phila- delphia\ 7. JANET JACKSON-. \Because of Love'~ .,:! w' ' j, I ,J -. •' ;. . • >) ,:_I' 8 COUNTING CROWS__:_ ''Mr.·Jories\. • . ,. ': :·'.!;·· •r 9. SALT .. n-PEPA FEATURING EN VOGUE-· .... ·· \Whatta Man\ ' , 10. CELINE DION -· ·.\The Power of Love\' . Olympic Speedskate.r Keynote Speaker at Benefit Jazz Concert by Gregg Alexander and Peter Sav~rd Contrib11ting Writers patients need to find unrelated dm1ors - people who are willing to donate their marrow to a spe- cific patient in need. The Bone Marrow Resource Foundation is a local recruitment group of the National Marrow Donor Program (NMDP). The NMDP maintains a computerized registry of volunteers who are willing to donate their bone mar- row to a fatally ill patient. Most On Thursday, April 21st, at 7 p.m., the Bone Marrow Resource Foundation and Psi Upsilon ct.n! holding a benefit jazz concert in Memorial Chapel featuring leg- endary Concord Jazz artists Dave McKennaandGray Sargent. Lo- cal Olympic speedskater Kristen Talbot, who donated lier \An estimated. 16\000 American children and adults of the generous volunteers who have joined the bone mar- row to her brother just a few weeks are stricken each year with registry. will some fatal blood disease.\ never be asked prior to participating in the 1994 Winter Olympics, will be the keynote speaker at this event. Proceeds from the concert help pay for the expensive blood tests used in detennining potential do- nors' tissue types. An estimated 16,000 Ameri- can children and adults are stricken each year with leukemia. aplastic anemia. or other fatal blood diseases. For many, the only hope for survival is a mar- row transplant. Nearly 70 per- cent cannot find a suitable match within their own families. These to donate.. For the few who are called, it is be- cause their tissue type precisely matches a patient in need. The only way to find those life-saving matches is to tissue type hundreds of thousands of volunteers around the world who are willing to offer the gift of life to a fatally ill pa- tient. Tickets are available through Ticketmaster at 4 76-1000, or can be purchased at the infonnation booth in the College Center. A donor drive wilf be. held in the week following the concert tore- cmit potential donors. AIT Computers Sales Services & Consulting 8l725th St Watervliet, NY 12189 Tel. (518)276-2838 Multi\Media Station $1895 486DX2-66MHZ. 256kB. dbl/ speed CD-ROM. 16bl Sicard. 2 spkr. 6 titles Opening Reception of the 486DX2-66MHZ. 256KB $1599 4860X-J3MHZ, 256KB $1409 486DL('-40MHZ 128 KB $1085 486DX-40MHZ, 128KB $998 2nd Annual Juried Undergraduate Art Exhibition Tuesday, April 19, 1994 4:00 - 6:00 pm Arts Atrium Exhibition: April18tlt- May 6tll All systmed include 4mb ram. 1/o card 255mb HD, SVGA card & 18 Monitor 12 &I 44 FD, 101 Keyboard, Mouse, 486-DX systems come with 3 slots VESA M/Board Pentium Upg, 32 bit VL- IDE, VL-SVGA. w:ni Accelerator For 340mb HD add $65 For 8mb ram add $160, ror 15\ Monitor add $99. Call for Pentium systems, Printers, Computer parts, etc ONE YEAR WARRANTY c tu w PI lil le S\ sl' ti• V4 s. • Je in w w ci b4 a1 w cl

SCIENCE AND HEALTH April14, 1994, Page 9 Catalytic Antibodies Provide New Methods of Chemical Synthesis by Andy Salama Science and Jlealth Editot spontaneously formed carbon rings. In 1950, they received the Nobel Prize for this research. De- spite the advantages of the Diels- Alder reaction, it has intrinsic duce two distinct stereoisemers of the product, which normally have different chemical properties. The Diels-Alder reaction favors the fonnation of endo products. H .c, OOCHJ ~ila(151) which is both inefficient and ustJ .. ally unsuccessful. As of yet catalytic antibodies have not been found to produce exo Diets-Alder prod1:1cts. Re- 1 0CH3 c • 0 impasse ofDiels-Alder exo reac- tions. There are several advan- . tages in using antibodies as cata- lysts. For one, they provide en- ergy for transition states in chemi- cal reactions, and they can con- trol several factors such as the ste- reochemistry all at the same time. Theoretically, biochemists could produce any antibody needed for a specific reaction, simply by injecting a mouse with molecules that resemble a particu- lar transition state. Recently, smne chemists have turned to biology to solve. other'\ wise extraordinary, and difficult problems in chemical synthesis. Immuno-proteins called antibod- ies which help inactivate. foreign substances in the body, have been shown to have catalytic proper-; ties, which, succeed where con- ventional methods have failed. Some of these catalytic anti bod~ ies have a propensity for prQ.duc- ing cyclic molecules (molecules which contain rings of carbon), which are often used in insecti- cides, plastics, and synthetic nib- hers. A typical Diels-Aider reaction iilustrates the likelihood for endo products. As of yet, chemists have been unable to produce catalytic anti- bodies in quantities necessary for industrial use. Current research is using this same concept of cata- lytic antibodies to produce steroid dmgs. ln 1928, two chemists, Diels and Alder, pioneered research which showed that two kinds of chemicals, dienes and dienophiles shortcomings. T11e reaction can produce endo or exo prod\ICts. Tl1e en do, and exo pathways pro- A New D·rug for Lou Genrig's Disease by Kenny Lee Science and Healtlr Editor Amyotrophic lateral sclero- sis, also known as Lou Gehrig's disease is a nerve disease in which patients lose control of their muscles, resulting m weakness and eventual death. Tl1e world first leamed about 1 A.L.S. and it's effects in 1940, ·when New York Yankee first baseman, Lou Gehrig., was di- patients which, when 'finished, should give scientists a clearer view of the situation with riluzole. Other opinions have been ex- pressed about riluzole and some of them have not been very positive. It has been shown that riluzole treated pa- tients have varied responses to the medicine depending upon where the disease originated. Patients in which A.L.S. origi- nated agnosed with the disease. People stiiJ re- member his story \Rece11tly scientists have been testing a new drug, riluzole, which in tests conducted in in the brain stem seemed to be helped to a greater ·and cour- Fran.ce and Belgium, has decreased deaths by 39 percent.\ age. How- ever, science has fottnd little I smce then, that can increase life · expectancy. Although the dis- ease is rare it has been in the news smce 1940, with the deaths of senator Jacob Javits and ac- tor David Niven. Recently, scientists have been testing a new drug, rihtzole. which in tests conducted in France an'd Belgitnn have shown deaths to decrease by 39 percent in the first year and 20 · percent in the second year. However, since the study was conducted on only 155 patiet1ts, there is fear that the results are not legitimate. Riluzole, how- ever, is not a cure. lit is simply a drug that thus far has been shown to slow the progression of the disease, by delaying the crippling symptoms a11d death. l11e manner in which the drug works is not known, therefore, the question ofwhetheT it works is still posed. Dr. Rothstein is now conducting a study on 959 degree by riluzole than those patients whose disease origi- nated in the spinal cord. This does not make sense since it is presently believed that the dis- ease is the same, independent of its origin. Also, since it is known that riluzole blocks a chemical (glutamate) which carries messages in the brain. it does not make sense that the drug only effects certain pa- tients because it is believed that ·A.L.S. results from a toxic build up of glutamate in the brain. Much more research will be done to test the effectiveness of this dmg and many debates will ensue. However, it is important that those afflicted with this dis- ease not depend on riluzole for treatment, because it may prove ineffective. With the results of Dr. Rothstein's study the debate over riluzole will be resolved, hopefully, with positive results. Source: New York Titlles, March 4, 1994. The formation ofan exo product requires that the reactants enter a higher energy transition state, searchers at UCLA and Scripps, have attained antibodies which can overcome the thermodynamic Source: SA, March 1994. Cranberries May Prevent Certain Bacterial Infections by Andy Salama Science and Healtll Editor For many years cranberry juice and cranberry derived beverages have been thought to have bacte- ricidal properties that kills bacte- ria in the bladder. However, there is still a great deal of controversy over whether this notion has any sci- entific merit. en Q) c. 30 E ~ Q) 20 .s ... ::> suggesting that cranberry juice inhibits bacteria from adhering to mucosal surfaces. Drs. Sobota, and Schmidt demonstrated that cranberry juice and urine pro- duced by cranberry juice, pre- vented the adherence of Escherichia coli (E. coli) to epi- · of bacteria to cells. These com- . pounds have also been found in blueberries, but not in orange, grapefruit, or pineapple juices. The action of these bacterial tox- ins may inhibit adhesins {mol- ecules that promote adhesion) on the surface of bacteria cells. Cranberry Group In 1914, Archives in Internal Medi- cine published an article which claimed cranberry juice contained sig- nificant levels of 0~----~--~---r---r---.--~ Despite recent findings, no ad- eqnately performed study has been done to conclusively say that cranberry juice prevents urinary tract infections. Ocean Spray Cran- berries Inc. recently Baseline 1 2 3 4 5 Time. mo . funded a clinical ex- periment to help il- benzoic acid, which '-------------~----------1 lustrate cranberries is converted to hippuric acid in thelia) cells in the urinary tract by bactericidal properties. l11e study the urine. Subsequent studies 80%. The adherence of E. coli to focused on elderly women, the throughthe1970'ssuggestedthat uroepithelialcellshasbeenattrib- most common victims of the acidification of urine due to uted to lectins, proteins that have bacteriuria (bacteria in the urine) benzoic acid was responsible for binding properties for specific and pyuria (puss in the urine). its bactericidal effect. However, sugars. Two compounds, fmc- The results strongly suggest that more recent studies propose a tose, and an unknown polymer, cranberries do indeed have some completely different mechanism. have been shown to dismpt the bactericidal effects. Laboratory urologists are now lectin that mediates the binding Source: JAMA, March 1994. Biology Majors Meeting on April 26 by Kenny Lee Science and Healtll Editor On Friday, April 8th, I had the opportunity to speak with Profes- sor Twitty Styles, chainnan of the Biology Department. about the upcoming events in the Biology Department and about plans for the future. On April 26, a meet- ing will be held at which all per- spective biology majors should attend. Among the topics that will be discussed, are new procedures for pre-registration, long range plans, research opportunities for the summer an~ the whale watch. For fall tenn. a new procedure will be implemented by the biol- ogy department which will allow students to know what they are getting themselves into before registering for a course. Packets of course outlines will be avail- able in the Ryan Room for stu- dents' lise. These outlines will de- scribe course syllabi, the broad purpose of the course, lab proce- dures and grading procedure. Tl1is process will allow professors as well as students, to understand expectations prior to enrollment. In the coming year the depart- mentplans on moving the animal quarters to the basement from the first floor of Science and Engi- neering and changing the fonner animal quarters to a new teach- ing laboratory. As was discussed at the last meeting, research op- portunities will be talked about. Input will be expected from the studen\ts about their interests so the faculty can help the students find research employment for the summer. TI1e Biology Club will also be discussing plans for this term which include the whale watch on the weekend of April 29th and an ice cream social scheduled for sometime next month. As was discussed in the last meeting ,this coming year should be very exciting for the depart- ment since only two professors will be on sabbatical. T11e depart- ment will be carrying almost a full selection of courses for the year. However, in order to get things accomplished we need all of the Biology maiors at this meeting so we can all work together to make the most out of the department and its opportunities.

April 14, 1994, page 10 Residence Life Needs To Review Policy Punishment is normally used to teach people a lesson. It is used as incentive to learn how to correct people's. wrong-doings. Residence Life is notteaching students • a lesson or giving them an incentive to behave in a dif~ ferent manner, when they punish students for something that they do not have direct control over. Innocent students are charged for the reckless few that do not take responsibility when they damage something. Students are charged at least $10 for each incident that Das. Most of the students that are charged for dam~ge in common areas are unaware that damage even oc- curred. The idea that if they charge everybody for a select . few's mis-doings, the innocent students will coerce the · guilty students into admitting their guilt. This principle • does not work when most people do not lmow who van- dalized the common area. 1 It is ridiculous for the school to extort money out of 1 :the students this way. One wou]d think with the amount : i that they charge for rooms, there would be some allow- ·· 1 ance for breakage included in that fee. The amount that : 1 Residence Life charges each student is also outrageous. : To fix a broken window in a common area does not , ! cost nearly the amount that Residence Life charges. By i 1 collecting $10 from each student in a dorm with over : t 200 students, results in Residence Life charging over \ · $2000 for a window that probably did not cost them a quarter of that amount to replace. When a window breaks in a college-owned fraternity housing, the fraterm nity is charged for the window. Residence Life does not charge each member of the fraternity $10 for the win- dow, so why should people living in the dorms be . charged this amount. It appears that it would be more reasonable for Resi- dence Life to charge each hall account an amount that accurately represents that cost of replacement, than to / charge the students directly for something that they are I not directly responsible for. UP-ED -II)'T- ...... s-- a-~ Cartoomsts & Wnters Syndtcate Letters to the Editor: Academic Honesty: Why It Is Necessary In an attempt to encourage dialogue regarding academic honesty among members of the college community, the Academic Affairs Subcouncil on Academic Honesty and Practice has arranged a series of letters to be published in The Concordiensis. These letters will present differing perspectives on the issue of academic honesty. Included in this series will be two letters addressed to the faculty and two letters addressed to stu- dents, with the views coming from both \sides.\ In addition, we hope to include a letter from the college's lawyer commenting on a recent case that was handled in court. It is our hope that these letters will offer a variety of viewpoints to which students and faculty can respond. Although these letters will appear in consecutive issues of The Con- cordiensis, they were composed concurrently and are not meant to serve as are- sponse to one another. We hope these responses will come from you. This is the second letter in the series. A letter to Union Students from a Faculty Member: Five memorable moments in my teaching career at Union: * returning a paper to a student with the grade of \F\ visible on the cover and hearing a distinct \fuck you\ come back at me; *remaining silent for more tllan twenty minutes in my class on \moral dilemmas\ while students argued vigorously among them- selves about the ethics of a politi- cal decision, ignoring my pres- ence; * spending hours in discussion with a student who had acciden- . tally gotten his girlfriend pregnant but desperately wanted ller to have the baby and then to raise the child, by himself if necessary, while slle wanted an abortion (which she then got without tell- ing him); * watching a student break into tears at the end of a rigorous Se- nior Thesis Oral Examination, when both of us knew she had excelled in a way that she never had before at Union College; • being. called late at night by the mother of a student whom I had known well, asking me to de- liver the eulogy at his funeral af- ter he had died of cancer that af- ternoon, a few years followi~g his graduation. What's going on here between students and faculty at Union, anyway? Why are students and faculty members so clo~ely bonded, intellectually and emo- tionally? Why do you read and think about what we assign? Why do we critique what you write so extensively? Why do students and faculty talk so often with each other- about ideas, about under- standing, about expectations, about emotions as well as knowl- edge? Why do faculty try to pose challenging assignments? Why do you work so llard to do well in our courses? Why do students and faculty want each other's respect? The answers lie in the very pur- pose of this College. Union College succeeds be- cause students and faculty share some fundamental goals: to pre- pare you for tile world, to have you achieve some mastery of a discipline, to develop your abil- ity to think, to have you·mature as a human being, and to ac- knowledge in eacll other the in-' tegrity of our actions and thoughts. The critical glue that holds us together in pursuit of all of these goals is honesty. I can- not help you to understand poli- tics, to succeed in law school, to become a more influential and .principled citizen, or to become a full human being unless I give you an honest assessment of what I perceive you are doing well al- ready and what you need to im- prove (and how to do that). You cannot argue well about politics, excel in your career, become a leader, and emerge as a thinking and· feeling adult unless you do your work honestly in my courses - and unless botll you and [ are honest with each other when we talk infonnally. You cannot achieve success without both trial and error, praise and criticism, nurturing and chal- lenge. Tllat takes honesty on both our parts. \Honesty\ is not some abstract virtue in a remote moral theory. It is a fundamental dynamic that makes both human relationships and personal accomplishment possible, at Union College and outside the gates. You and I open ourselves to each other about our knowledge, ideas, judgments, and feelings. Our mutual honesty builds a sense of trust, and from that trust comes intellectual growth, practical preparation, and human development. If we lose that honesty - if I give you a grade you don't deserve, if you submit papers or tests you did not author-. then we've both sub- verted the educational process on which your future rests. With respect, Byron A. Nichols Chair. Departmeut of Political Science All Interested Students Should Attend~ the Weekly Staff Meetings, on Thursdays, CC303, 7:30 PM. All are Welcome.\ te ra pc 5. pt Sf \\ tit A u pc 111 til ra ni Cl B ci 01 S1 c~ A L IS ll1 b1 ru cl a al m

FEATURES Aprill4, 1994, page 11 Class of'J 994 Will Build Seating at Flagpole by David Levine Editor•in-cllief The Senior Class Gift Commit- tee kicked off its campaign to raise.$5000 for seating at the flag- pole area with a meeting. on April 5. The meeting,. attended by ap .. proximately 30 people, included speeches by Vice-president Dan West, and Frank Messa '73, Na- tional Chair .of Union College's Annual Fund. West spoke 011 the history of Union's Annual Fund, and its im- portance to the college. Accord- ing to West, the class .of 1993 had the highest student participation rate in Union's history for the Se- nior Gift Drive, at fifty-six per- cent. Senior Class President, Blaine Langberg, hopes \our class can break that record.\ Additionally, Umon is one of only fifteen schools in the United States which has over fifty per- cent of its alumni. contribute to the Annual Fund. According to Langberg, \This [the senior gift] is an excellent way for graduat- ing students to begin their contri- bution to the annual fund ... I am extremely optimistic that our class can be the first class to have a 100 percent participation rate.\ ' I \ -·· ............. ·- _.. ---· - . - CLASS Of 1994 filiNIOR QJFr ~fil)·fifi~!f'IN~ A'fMA.~!\~ J ....... ! t •. 'i •• • ~~ ~-' T11e Senior Class gift is actu- ally considered a part of the an- nual fund. Another important aspect of the Senior Class Gift is that \companies and govemments rely on participation when giving grants to Union College,\ accord- ing to Langberg. ·Additionally, President Hull will match the donation of se- niors, if there is a one-lum<ired The recommended gift is $19.94 per person, and the con- struction of the benches will be- percent participation rate. Dance Marathon to B.enefit AIDS Awareness in Our Community!!!! Saturday, April 16th 1:00PM-1:00AM Upper Class Dining, College Center gin in May. Featuring DJs from WRUC!!r!!!!!!! minimum donatio.n of$20 admission* include·s : AIDS Awareness T -shirt free food . . ·L; excellent prizes including: gift-certificate for Mari's Japanese Cuisine, Gepetto's, Manhattan Exchange~ and many more!!!!!! *raised in money pledged by friends, family, etc. ANY ?????Call ext., 5584 ..........

FEATURES April14, 1994; page 12 The Dark Side of the Human Spirit: Hate May Always Exist by Rawson Thurber Concordiensis Staff Well, 1 went to the \Love Against the Odds\ presentation that was held in the Memorial Chapel this past Thursday, and being from the San Francisco area, a Gay speaker was nothing new to me). Seldom have I seen such a tum out for an event that wasn't based on alcohol. I sat there listening, with about eight hundred other Union Col- lege students, as Bob and Rod Jackson-Paris told us their stories of alienation, how they met, fell in love, got married and began their national tour. But the most interesting part of the \assembly\ to me was the comments that 1 overheard before and .after. Before Bob and Rod showed up at Memorial Chapel (the site of the presentation had to be switched due to the amount of people that showed up) the audi- ence seemed to be \on edge.\ I don't know if this is my own bi- ased view, or not because I was a little anxious to see these guys and hear what they had to say or not. I was sitting with some of my buddies who were there not by their own choice, and one con- versation with them went some- thing like this: \If they start talking about 'do- ing it' I'm outta here.~ Then I chimed in with, \You guys are pretty Homophobic, huh?\ Which was followed by this brilliant statement, \Naw I just don't like 'em.\ So after assuring my friend that we would go fix a car together later, we all settled in for the Bob and Rod show. For the most part I enjoyed the talk. 1 felt their.story was both ad- mirable and entertaining. But the part that struck me the most was that it seemed like a \production.\ Bob would pause and Rod would begin. They hit their cues with the flawless perfection of a classically trained actor. 1 guess there's noth- ing wrong with that. I mean after aJ:l they've probably given the same speech a bazillion times. so I guess you can't hold that against them. But I just seemed to view it more as a performance than a pre- sentation, complete with the au- dience clapping at the correct times which seemed to give the whole thing a \Talk Show-esque\ quality. I stayed until the end. and watched people filter out during the performance trying to be as politically correct as they could whilst leaving. And after a proper standing ovation the show was over. I went to the CoUege Cen- ter before attending the reception for Bob and Rod after their speech. While \hanging out\ in the fashionable Dutch Hollow com- plete with neon signs, I over heard a young lady saying, \I can't believe all those people showed up to see two gay men. It's absolutely ridiculous.\ That comment struck me funny. If you think about it for a second or longer, it is an odd no- tion that over eight hupdred people showed up to see two gay men. And the only reason that those two men were up on stage is because they're homosexual. It felt like a, \Come See Gay Men- they really do exist!\ night at Union College. I heard other comments during the night, and l'm sony to say that most of them were derogatory comments about Gay and Lesbian people. I don't know, this whole racial, sexual, and ethnic hatred thing confuses me. Don't get me vyrong, I'm not saying that Pm perfect, we've all got our own hang-ups and bigotries. But it seems to me that there are so many reasons to hate someone on an individual basis, that stereotyp- ing people seems a little redun- dant. At the reception I introduced myself to the famed Bob and Rod and thanked them for their pre- sentation. But when I thanked them and was about to leave Rod (the blonde one) extended his hand and I shook it. As I was leav- ing I realized that I hadn't ex- tended my hand, I kept my dis- tance. So maybe I'm not as lib- era! and accepting of everyone as I would like to think. I don't know what the point of all this is. Every other commer- cial you see on TV is, \:accept this group of people, love that group of people, don't hate this, don't be afraid of that.\ We're constantly being bombarded with this \Accept and Love Everyone\ message. But without question it has been my experience that Ho- mosexual \bashing\ is OK. Don't worry if you're Homophobic, that just means you're normal. And in my opinion that'~ absolute fecal matter. It shouldn'tbeOKtohate any- one, but it has been going on for~ ever and a day. (Does anyone re- m em her the Republican National Convention?.). It's never going to end. We can try, we can each make an effort to eliminate our iUconceived judgments of others, and MTV cart have as marty \Free Your Mind\ commercials as it can possibly think up. And maybe some individuals win begin to love before they begin to hate. But in the end people will hate other people because, that's the way it has always been. I hope I'm wrong, but in my nineteen years of life I have seen little change. Well that's my two cents• feel free to throw me your change: Rawson Thurber Bo.x #2(JJ 8 lmmediateCareer Opportunities Available ln: Marketing Financial Planning Sales We are looking for active, bright, highly self- rnotivated individuals. Positions available in the Metropolitan New York Area including: Westchester, Rockland, Dutchess, Orange and Ulster Counties Send Resume To: Mike Kipness 969 Park Avenue, Suite 12E New York, NY 10028 Student Forum Elections Positions: - Student Forum President - Vice-president Academics - Vice-president Finance - Vice-president Administration - Vice-president Campus Life .~& ) )Uil !.f.. «··:·; • .. . ' I I I I '. . -~,r - Petitions will be available April 15th at the Information Booth or in the Student Activities Office. - Petitions are due April22nd. -Elections will be Friday, April 29th. - Statements for The Concordiensis are due Monday, April 25th. All statements must be on a HD disk, which is labeled with the title of the statement and what program was used - Times- for Photos for The Concordiensis will be announced in next week's issue.

FEATURES April 14, 1994; page 12 The Dark Side of the Human Spirit: Hate May Always Exist by Rawson Thurber Concordiensis Staff Well, I went to the \Love Against the Odds\ presentation that was held in the Memorial Chapel this past Thursday, and being from the San Francisco area, a Gay speaker was nothing new to me). Seldom have I seen such a tum out for an event that wasn't based on alcohol. I sat there listening, with about eight hundred other Union Col- lege students, as Bob and Rod Jackson-Paris told us their stories of alienation, how they met, fell in love, got married and began their national tour. But the most interesting part of the \assembly\ to me was the comments that I overheard before and after. Before Bob and Rod showed up at Memorial Chapel (the site of the presentation had to be switched due to the amount of people that showed up) the audi- ence seemed to be \on edge.\ I don't know if this is my own bi- ased view, or not because I was a little anxious to see these guys and hear what they had to say or not. I was sitting with some of my buddies who were there not by their own choice, and one con- versation with them went some- thing like this: \If they start talking about 'do- ing it' I'm outta here.~' l11en I chimed in with, \You guys are pretty Homophobic, huh?\ Which was followed by this brilliant statement, \Naw I just don't like 'em.\ So after assuring my friend that we would go fix a car together later, we all settled in for the Bob and Rod show. For the most part I enjoyed the talk. I felt their story was both ad- mirable and entertaining. But the part that struck me the most was that it seemed like a \production.\ Bob would pause and Rod would begin. They hit their cues with the flawless perfection of a classically trained actor. I guess there's noth- ing wroHg with that. I mean after all they've probably given the same speech a bazillion times, so I guess you can't hold that against them. But I just seemed to view it more as a performance than a pre- sentation, complete with the au- dience clapping at the correct times which seemed to give the whole thing a \Talk Show-esque\ quality. I stayed until the end, and watched people filter out during the performance trying to be as politically correct as they could whilst leaving. And after a proper standing ovation the show was over. I went to the College Cen- ter before attending the reception for Bob and Rod after their speech. While \hanging out\ in the fashionable Dutch Hollow com- plete with neon signs, I over heard a young lady saying, \I can't believe all those people showed up to see two gay men. It's absolutely ridiculous.\ That comment struck me funny. lf you think about it for a second or longer, it is an odd no- tion that over eight hundred people showed up to see two gay men. And the only reason that those two men were up on stage is because they're homosexual. It felt J,ike a, \Come See Gay Men- they really do exist!\ night at Union College. I heard other comments during the night, and I'm sorry to say that most of them were derogatory comments about Gay and Lesbian people. I don't know, this whole racial, sexual, and ethnic hatred thing confuses me. Don't get me wrong, I'm not sayiBg that I'm perfect, we've all got our own hang-ups aHd bigotries. But it seems to me that there are so many reasons to hate someone on an individual basis, that stereotypN ing people seems a little reduH- dant. At the reception I introduced myself to the famed Bob and Rod and thanked them for their pre- sentation. But when I thanked them and was about to leave Rod (the blonde one) extended his hand and I shook it. As I was leav- ing I realized that I hadn't ex- tended my hand, I kept my dis- tance. So maybe I'm not as lib- eral and accepting of everyone as I would ltike to think. I don't know what the point of all this is. Every other commer- cial you see on TV is, \accept this group of people, love that group of people, don't hate this, dm~'t be afraid of that.\ We're constantly being bombarded with this \Accept and Love Everyone\ message. But without question it has been my experience that Ho- mosexual \bashing\ is OK. Don't worry ifyoH're Homophobic, that just means you're normal. And in my opinion that'~ absolute fecal matter. It shouldn't be OK to hate any- one, but it has been going on for- ever and a day. (Does anyone re- member the Republican National Convention?). Ifs never going to end. We can try, we can eacb make an effort to eliminate our iU conceived judgments of others, and MTV can have as many \Free Your Mind\ commercials as it can possibly think up. And maybe some individuals will begin to love before they begin to hate. But in the end people will hate other people because, that's the way it has always been. I hope I'm wrong, but in my nineteen years of life I have seen little cl1ange. Well that's my two cents- feel free to throw me your change: Raw.wm Thurber Box #20JH Immediate Career Opportunities Available In: Marketing Financial Planning Sales We are looking for active, bright, highly self- motivated individuals. Positions available in the Metropolitan New York Area including: Westchester, Rockland, Dutchess, Orange and Ulster Counties Send Resume To: Mike Kipness 969 Park A venue, Suite 12E New York, NY 10028 Student Forutn Elections Positions: - Student Forum President - Vice-president Academics - Vice-president Finance - Vice-president Administration -Vice-president Campus Life -Petitions will be available April 15th at the Information Booth or in the Student Activities Office. - Petitions are due April 22nd. - Elections will be Friday, April 29th. - Statements for The Concordiensis are due Monday, April 25th. All statements must be on a HD disk, which is labeled with the title of the statement and what program was used - Times for Photos for The Concordiensis will be announced in next week's issue.

FEATURES Kelly's: What a Ladies' Night by Erin O'Neil · Featur-es Editor Always in search of a social alternative to the Union College social scene, I decided; to head to the up scale Schenectady bar, Kelly's, for ladies' night. It was here that l hoped to escape the mundane cbit•chat which has be- come the notm at our fa.ir col'lege. . Upon arrival I am greeted by Sergeant. the \Laberman Pinserdor\ in charge c;>f Kelly's sf!curity. A.ftt::r feeding, him the '.. ' slab of raw beef I always keep handy i.n my .PC?Cket~ I proceeded to the bru: for my· first free beer, trying my best to i·gnore the ugly stares ·~f the regul<\rS who m~~e . it more than obvious I was not welcome. Well; free beer is free beer, and being the bold, free-thin,king woman that I am, I decided to stay- for better or for worse. From this point on I became an observer of what can only be tenned as a typical Ladies' Night at Kelly's. Uh-huh. \He was the best f~k I've ever bad. and he was orily fifteen!,\ was the first comment which turned my head this evening. This statement coming from a gloating, grotesque thirty-year old woman. My friend and I looked overatthismost fortunate woman with great interest. Our look of admiratiori was m~t with glares of An Evening of Jazz condensation. Gosh, we were only looking for a few pointers. Round two and it's time to visit the Ladies' room. After waiting a few minutes, the door opens and I am face to face with two large men. \Sorry to stink the place up;' was all they said. And could you believe.. the Ladies' room was fjlled with the stench of mari- juana. I was appalled. \You won't tell anyone,;' they im- plored. Out of fear I could only nod my head in agreement. I can't believe this! So l'm back in the barroom, surrounded by regulars wearing variou~ styles of Harley- Davidson apparel. I do feel a little out ofplace. Suddenly, an obese wom~n in turquoise spandex be- gins belting out Meatloafs \I Would Do Anything for Love (But I Won't Do That). We all link anns and sing the OTB theme song as if we have known each other our whole lives. It's like I have found my home at last. Come closing time my friends start becoming a bit uncomfort- able. A fonner bartender asked if we would mind ifhe passed out on our table. L of course, said no. He explained that he rarely drinks, but right now he was hav- ing a bit .of woman trouble. Who couldn't understand that? So he drew a bullseye on the piece of paper I was using for notes, an- nounced he was going to save the world, and planted his nose in the exact center of his target. I was impressed. However, he found my friend to be as cute as a but- ton. Damn. They left, ant;! it was just me and Sergeant the \Laberman Pinserdor.\ Hey, I think he's kinda cute ... WRITE FOR FEATURES CONTACT ALEXIS OF ERIN AT X6155. with Dave McKenna and Gray Sargent Sponsored by Trustco Bank and Psi Upsilon to Benefit Bone Marrow Resource Foundation, Inc. Thursday, April 21, 1994, at 7:00PM Union Collttge Memorial Chapel Tickets now on sale at College Center Change of Doctor Hours at Silliman Hall Starting April 4, 1994 M - W - F 8 am - 10 AM Tues -Thurs. 4:15- 6:15PM April14, 1994, page~ 13 . . -.-· ~- [S?j:fitJ:l:a:~~tl;l}iit~l'b1~$Vt!!lf~')l4• noton:fyb~S,tO put Up ~f$is;tt~ti1:Q,rsiill'?li~l~:,fle:ld butnt:Y~N Pres, Hull is tavirt'g'1rtO'Httv~:~S:'W(~ak:1er· at aiL· Ap~arently ~ , ..lM'lU:Y· :'!;{'\\:'·'\\\· a/~ecot~;ing of . --.· .c··· , ' . I I\\\' I I I I j I ' I i . ' I I I i

FEATURES Kelly's: What a Ladies' Night by Erin O'Neil Features Editor Always in search of a social al,temative to the Union College social scene, I decided to head to the up scale Schenectady bar, Kelly's, for ladies' night. It was here that I hoped to escape the mundane chit-chat which has be- come the norm at our fair college. Upon arrival I am greeted by Sergeant. the \Laberman Pinserdor\ in charge of Kelly's security. After feeding him the slab of raw beef I always keep handy in my pocket, I proceeded to the bar for my first free beer, trying my best to ignore the ugly stares of the regulars who m&de it more than obvious I was not welcome. Well, free beer is free beer, and being the bold, free-thinking woman that I am, I decided to stay- for better or for worse. From this point on I became an observer of what can only be tenned as a typical Ladies' Night at Kelly's. Uh-huh. \He was the best f-k I've ever had, and lle was only fifteen!,\ was the first comment which turned my head this evening. This statement coming from a gloating, grotesque thirty-year old woman. My friend and I looked over at this most fortunate woman with great interest. Our look of admiration was met with glares of An Evening of Jazz condensation. Gosh, we were only looking for a few pointers. Round two and it's tirne to visit the Ladies' room. After waiting a few minutes, the door opens ru1d I am face to face with two large men. \Sorry to stink the place up,\ was all they said. And could you believe- the Ladies' romn was filled with the stench of mari- juana. I was appalled. \You won't tell anyone,\ they im- plored. Out of fear I could only lilod my head in agreement. I can't believe this! So I'm back in the barroom, surrounded by regulars wearing various styles of Harley- Davidson apparel. I do feel a little out of place. Suddenly, an obese won:tan in turquoise spandex be- gins belting out Meattoafs \I Would Do Anything for Love (But I Won't Do That). We all link anns andsing the OTB theme song as if we have known each other our whole lives. It's like I have found my home at last. Come closing tnne my friends start becoming a bit uncomfOii- able. A fanner bartender asked ifwe would mind ifhe passed out on our table. I. of course. said no. He explained that he rarely drinks, bt!lt right now he was hav- ing a bit of woman trouble. Who couldn't understand that? So he drew a bullseye on the piece of paper I was using for notes. an- nounced he was going to save the world. and planted his nose in the exact center of his target. I \.vas impressed. However, he found my friend to be as cute as a but- ton. Damn They left. and it was just me and Sergeant the \Labennan Pinserdor.\ Hey. I think he's kinda cute ... WRITE FOR FEATURES CONTACT ALEXIS OF ERIN AT X6155. with Dave McKenna and Gray Sargent Sponsored by Trustco Bank and Psi Upsilon to Benefit Bone Marrow Resource Foundation, Inc. Thursday, April 21, 1994 at 7:00PM Union College Memorial Chapel Tickets now on sale at College Center Change of Doctor Hours at Silliman Hall Starting April 4, 1994 M - W - F 8 am - 10 AM Tues- Thurs. 4:15- 6:15PM April14, 1994, page 13 .· .. :uncle Edna · .. ,;G3'rrying the Torch for the Common Slouch ' /tang i.Srt Urti(ln Colleg{; Student who answers real .Jrom real people and inuch much more, E:x- Vim/ra~chi$~? S/Upifie,d? Writ(# Vnlce Edna ·•' ·. ' - ~-- ' . . .. • i'})~pUncte Edn~ · •Jii1j;t!a:~freshman girl who has been having problems ~~~i'i1g al<:ng with·the guys on my floor. Any sugges~ tJonS?: ~v · · Dear IV, Haveyou tried Midol? ~\' Dear Uncle Edna. U1ear you like to golf, what's your handicap? ~A Palmer Dear Arnie, My swing. TOP TEN Yes, loyal readers I am losing my ha1r. Joining others on this campus who, like Larry Norman and myself, are balding, I propose the top ten politically correct ways to refer to a balding man. 10. ''FoHically impaired\ 9. ~~clogged Drain Capable\ 8. uElmer-Fuddishft 7. 11 Forehead inclined'' 6. nEvolutionarily advanced\ 5. \TellySavalas admiring 11 4. \Monoxidyl demandant 11 3. ,;Barber*shop no11~dependent\ 2. ''ScaJp.affectionate\ l. \Cy Sperling 11 Graduation Update Rumor has it that the class of '94 not only has to put up with the sea of traitors in Nott fiel.d but now Pres Hull is thinking ofhavingno live speaker at all Apparently, plans are in progress to simply play back a recording of last year's soeaker. Ouch! Edna As'ks You :rrt2LtteS'c~)Qb'VsJnacl<<a~lso~. alluring and if they were l~Y.tJne .. ~ver market them.? .. · Y,Yhatyou tbin'k ... . . · .. · ·. ···~·~d,~,ffi~t:sh~wils tlre o~ who the~pe~nt~St-~\11~' numo¢r:ur£Friday night .·. and.:: ·. <·... · . . ·KrJI\'IT' For being~tn~s~tbJect of a:n Jntense psycho- , . ..,...,.,,...,.. book called \Oedipus and Melt Wow~ good stuff. Matt Cecil: For successfully scaling Mount KHamanjaro last week with nothing more than a pair of sai1dals and a common kit chen fork The stoty will be in Sports Illus~ trated next week. Lori Mickenberg: Her 11 Sonnets ofthe Burgomaster'' were printed in 12 national publications last month and are expected to be anthologized by Norton next year. Congratulations., Lori 011 a job well done. One for your Friends . ' A skeleton walks into a bar. He orders a beer and asks for a mop. : \\-· -

: . I April 14, 1994, Page 14 FEATURES The Perfect Body: The Perfect Dream by Alexis Leist Features Editor Last night 1 listened to a speaker inform a group of women on the dangers, possible causes and reasons behind eating disor- ders. One out of every four women on this campus has some kind of eating disorder, whether it be full-blown or only border- line. To me that sounds like a horrible statistic which both shocks and causes one to ask why eating disorders are so prevalent among women. on this campus. I was surprised when the speaker almost downplayed eating disor- ders and denied their epidemic potential. h1 today'ssociety, eat- ing disorders are an epidemic. If we take Union's campus as an example, then most certainly it is a problem of epidemic propor- tions. But why here? It was interesting to hear what people at this meeting had to say about possible causes and the like. But what I found especially inter- esting was that someone made a comment more or less such as this: \In high school I did not know anyone who had an eating disorder, here, I have never seen a school so hung up on appear- ances and so many women with problems.'' I completely agree, I had never seen or heard of people with eat- ing disorders until I came here. Looking back, I realize that at least one of my friends in high school was anorexic, but I didn't notice because I did not live with her. I saw her between the hours of seven until two and then we each went our separate ways. And I think that is a big factor in the understanding and realization ofthe existence of such diseases; women live with women, and all of their habits, pet peeves, etc. are exposed. It almost seems as ifthis would discourage eating disor- ders. Perhaps at an all girls col- lege it does. Unfortunately on a campus such as ours even the dan- ger and fear of a woman's disease being discovered is not enough to overcome the ideal which women on this campus are expected to uphold by the men on this cam- pus. Admittedly, this \ideal\ is not only expected of us from the men on this campus but from society Attention! Attention! All Union Students! Have guy or gal problems? The folks annoying you to death? Don't know what to do? Then write into Union's own Dear Abbey. The Concordiensis would like to introduce to you our new column, Dear Cathy. Dear Cathy is here for you. Please write in with any problems or concerns that you may have and want-ad- dressed. There will be a response to your letters within the nextweek'sissue of The Concordiensis. Since confi- dentiality is a must, it is asked of you to sign your letters with an alias. Happy writing! Please drop your. letter in campus mail addressed to: Dear Cathy, Box # 2577 Dear Cathy: Let me say that I'm happy with this idea of having a \Dear Abbey\ in The Concordiensis. Here's my problem: I've be- come really swept up with the life on campus. So much so tha:t my boyfriend does not really matter to me anymore. I guess I used to love him, and I still do, it's just that meeting all these \new\ guys at on-campus parties is really overwhelming. My friends have told me not to break up with him because most guys on-campus aren't looking for a real relationship, they just want to \hook up.\ What should I do???!! Signed, Confused Dear Cm~fused, Social life on campus can he cwerwhelming at times, e.\pe~ cially if it is new to you. \Hook- mg up\ is a one night fling wilhout any long tenn cmmml~ ment, unlike what you may hm'e with your boyfriend. Your friend\· can no/ dictate your · .... jp.r your, boyfriend, only ....... 1!. • ~ •• .,. ~ \ :· · ..,.:i.,;·.., lfmi:-}1 you ·truly love him ••••••• and do not want tc) risk ruining what you hat'e with your hoy- friend, then hooking up i.~· not the answer. Hooking up can satisfy an urge, but it won't re- place a long term relationship. Dear Cathy, I really don't know if you can help me or not, but I guess that it is worth a shot. I was brought up in a really strict household. My dad's a cop. Anyway, to cut to the chase, I'm a female vir- gin (and feel like I'm the only one on this campus). Doesn't anyone wait until they find someone that they really love anymore before they decide to go ahead and have sex? TI1is is really something that I can't speak to my parents about. What do you think? Signed, Puzzled Dear Puzzled, You are not the only virgin on campus. There i.'i a lot t?{ pressure on campus to have sex. {/you are /ookingfor true love, then it is o.k. to wart until you .find that per.wm. Getting to know someone is more impcJr- tant than just having sex with them. So go out and have fim hut do nol feel pres.vured to do anythmg you do not want to do. Just remember when y(JU do meet the right person practice sqfe ,o;ex . in general. People judge on ap- pearances. As horrible as it may sound, and as hard as people may try to deny it, it is true. Jobs are given and taken away on the ba- sis oflooks. At a party guys look for \hot\ girls. Everyone judges on appearance .... you do, I do, everybody does. And rightly we should, seeing as that since the moment we are born it seems we are bombarded with images of beautiful men and women, to- gether with misleading ads that tell us that \yes you to can look like this.\ Yeah right, in another life maybe. If we an had the ex- act same body type maybe. If we all were robots maybe. But we are not. That is our reality, one which the media would rather have us forget and in fact makes us forget. The men on this cam- pus would like us to forget also. Union is a male-centered cam- pus. AU social events usually fo- cus around fraternities. Men's sports always seem to get more attention than women's, and the like. Women must attend frater- nities. In order for men to even notice us, we must look good. Thus, a basis for a desire to be Football, Feminism, and other Contemporary Contradictions presented by Jackson Katz \The Feminist Fullback'' Sponsored by the Women's Union thin is established becausei~helps us socially. A sad fact, but none- theless I find it true:in most.cases; Next time you'te at. a party just listen to the men arou~d you, I hope you'll find it as appallingas I do. The nonnal retaliation to an ar- ticle such as this is that men have eating disorders to and that they are pressured to look good too. But once again, that isj~tst a way for men to escape from our accu- sations ~as obvious as they may be) and for women afflicted with eating d~sorders to· change the subject, to put the spotlight on someone else, so to speak. I found that at the meeting I at- tended we spent a full five min- utes. discussing men and their eat- ing disorders. I just wanted to scream, \We are not men and by avoiding discussion ourselves, we are only contributing to the prob- lem.\ It was almost as if we were trying to hide the problem, like we were all denying that it even existed by bringing it to a man's level, as they are the focal point of our society, it can then be jus- tified. Wrong. The image that men wish ustoupholdhasmadeus this way. This campus has made many women this way. l have never q~estimied anything I've put into my mouth untH I came here. It is not only the men who press.ure us, lmt our own friends. They may not realize it, a com• ment may slip out her<;: atufthere, but tryst me, the person to whom it was directlf')d has taken notice · of it. Whati wish boti1 men and women on this campus would take notice of is that we are not . all the same. Certainly, the men and women on this campus are noL But neither are the women. Nor can we conform to your silly ideals of the perfect woman, nor shoitid we have .to subject our bodies to such conformity. . Eating disorders can lead to _death. Is it worth that much just to have some jerky fraten)ity brother pay attention to you? We must draw the .line between real- ity and fantasy. l11e perfect bo~y is a fantasy. The body we have been given is a reality. Men, as wel1 as women inust understand this. It is dangerous for women to live in a dream world any longer. - Is it a contradiction to love football and yet approach women as genuine equals? ... What role do advertising, Hollywood, sexist comedy, pornography, and sports culture pl'ayin glorifying violent . .. masculinity and contributing to violen.ce against women? April 14th 8PM ij - J Tc 11< te: lu TI 8] e11 fo i ' be I to I a~ ra gr al y, a. 81 sc W• Ot Tl m lo M kr d~

PERSONALS/CLASSIFIEDS April14, 1994, Page 15 Personals To the Senior Gamma Phi's- We hope you et~oyed your encoun- ter with the porcelain god! We had a; great time. Love - The TI1eta's BB/BS would like to thank the entire Union College community for another successful year of bowling. Over $5000 was raised to benefit the agency. Once again, Chi Psi won the award for raising the most pledges. Con- gratulations! We hope to see you all again next year! Thank you - You've made a big difference in a little's life! Bri, Pam, and Jenrti - l11ank you so much. I don't know how I would have survived Union with- out the three ofyou by my side. Thanks for the mess in front of my door and everything else. I love you all so much. Love, H. Mom - I just wanted to let you know that you are the most won- derful mother a daughter could hope to have .. You have meant . the world to me, and I often don't think about what I would have been like without you. Always remember how wonderful we know you are. Love- Your Yel- low Rose of Texas Little Bro - Things are finally working out. I'm so proud of you. Keep up tlte goQd work. llove you -Sis Allie .. Just re~ember~ Mommy loves you! Tom - You owe me dinner Bill- You still suck .at HatTrick! Krishna - I look forward to shar- ing common space witl1 you. -Pam To Turns .. I'm happy for you! -Virginia Chris - Our champion of pessi- mism you bring us smiles when were in piss poor moods. We wish you all the luck in Chad. - Pam. Jenni. and Heather Cta·ssitieds .,. Career Observation Days, April 26, 27, 28. · Spend a half or full day with an alumnus/a at his/her place of employment. Learn firsthand about your career inter- ests. Student Sign Up- Aprilll, 12, 13 in the CDC. Sign ups are first come -first serve. Don~t miss out! For more infonnation call the CDC, x 6176. The CDC is looking for a few good students to fill the impor- tant job of Career Assistants for the 1994-95 academic year. Join an outstanding group ofCA's and discover a fun and rewarding paid on-campus opportunity. For more infonnation or to pick up an application, stop by the CDC, third floor Old Chapel or call x6176. Applications are due Fri- day, April 22nd. A paid summer office position is available at the CDC. Good com- munication skills and orga- nizational skills a must. Com- UNFOR.TUNATEIX; TillS IS WHERE PEOPLE ARE PUTTING TOO MANY RETIREMENT DOLLARS. E very year, a lot of people make a huge mistake on their taxes. They don't take advantage oftax deferral and wind up sending Uncle Sam money they could be saving for retirement. Fortunately, that's a mistake you can easily avoid with TIAA-CREF SRAs. SRAs not only ease your current tax- bite, they offer a remarkably easy way to build retirement income-especially for the \extras\ that your regular pension and Social Security benefits may not cover. Because your .contributions are made in before-tax dollars, you pay less taxes now. And since all earnings on your SRA are tax-deferred as well, the money you don't send to Washington works even harder for you. Down the road, that can make a dramatic difference in your quality of life. What else makes SRAs so special? A range of allocation choices-from the guaranteed security of TIAA to the diversified investment accounts of CREF's variable annuity-all backed by the nation's number one retirement system. Why write off the chance for a more rewarding retirement? Calltoday and learn more about how TIAA-CREF SRAs can help you enjoy many happy returns. Benefit now from t:RX ~ CllllfHI.f' SRA. hotllne 1800-842-2733, tWt. 8016 . ... -- ·- ~ oi~. f. ~ • ~·f ' CREF urtifu:atu art Ji.ttributeJ by TIAA-CREF /nJi~iJiuJJ tllld fn.rtiJuJU,Irtil&,..,ii!t.r. For mr1n tompktt in/orllllllioll, tilfluJiit,q tha~qu anJ t.•pm.ru, Mil /800-842-27JJ, e.rt. 80!6 fora pri11pi~/UJ. RelzJ tiN pr01pec/UJ c(Utfud/y 6efort you invt.rl or.rtnd monty. puter competency on the Macintosh. Demonstrated initia- tive and maturity are required. Submit a resume and names of two references by Friday, April 22nd. Shadow an alumnus/a at his/her place of employment during Ca- reer Observation Days, April 26, 27, 28. Student Sign up is April 11, 12, 13 in the CDC. For more information call the CDC at x 6176. Career exploration has never been easier. Don't miss out! For Sale: Olympic Track mo-ped with hel- met. Mo-ped is in great shape. $250. Call x680l formoreinfor- mation. Summer Job Opportunity : $9.10/hr. of commission. Adver- tising sales. Sales experience helpful but not necessary. Train- ing provided. Work close to Union. Car recommended. Call Steve Gorman at (800) 469-3510 for more information. Summer Intern: The John Drew Theater of Guilg Hall, East Hampton, NY, offers internships for those interested in the per- fanning arts. See the CDC for further details. International study!!! Learn Hun- garian in Budapest this summer. Designed mainly for people of Hungarian origin, but open to all. Stop by the CDC for more details on costs and how to apply for this unique experience. Are you interested in finding out about other people's love lives? Do you gossip constantly? Well, join tbe Concordy staff and help with the personals/ classifieds section. Union College Campus Safety Department Notice/ Advisory Alumni Gym Parking Lot Please be advised that the Alumni Gym Parking Lot will remain opened during the softball season. Scheduled Home dates are: April 13 April 15 April 19 April23 April30 PARKING IN THIS AREA DURING GAMES AND PRACTICE SESSIONS '.,<;~- WILL BE AT YOUR O·WN RISK! ,_' - _ .....

. _.·,. Planning Your Week at Union Tile Concordiensis, in conjunction with the Office of Student Activities, and the Office of Scheduling, will begin printlng a weekly list of all events which are scheduled with the Office of Scheduling. This listing is part of an on-going effort to keep the Union community well informed of all campus events. -eds Thursday, Aprill4 lO:OOa 4:00p JAIL & BAIL AM. CANCER SOCIETY B 4:00p 5:30p PI TSI SIGMA 5:30p II:OOp ORIENTATION COMM. MTG. 6:00p 7:30p SHPE MTG. 6:00p B:OOp STUDENT FORUM MEETING 6:00p B:OOp WOMEN'S UNION DINNER DINNER WITH SPEAKER 6:30p ll :OOp MOUNTEBANKS REHEARSALS FOR MUSICAL 7 30p 8:30p ASIAN STU. UNION MTG. TABLE 1 • CC ATRIUM TABLE 2 · CC ATRIUM HUMANITIES 114 COLLEGE CENTER 203 COLLEGE CENTER 204 COLLEGE CENTER 205 HUMANITIES 113 COLLEGE CENTER 409 COLLEGE CENTER 406 FERO 102 COLLEGE CENTER 305 7 30p 12:00a LATINO HERITAGE MONTH SOC. SCI 016 MOVIE ~ LIKE WATER FOR CHOCOLATE 8:00p 9:30p SPEAKER- JACKSON KATZ WOMEN'S UNION 8:00p 10:30p d.L.B.A. SHOW MOVIE 8:00p 12:00a CHET'S COMMITTEE 4:00p 9·00p CHET'S 5:30p IO:OOp MOUNTEBANKS REHEARSALS FOR MUSICAL 6:00p S·OOp LATINO HERITAGE MONTH COMM A.L.A.S. 6 JOp 9:30p INTERVARSITY CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP 7 OOp II :OOp PHILOMATHEAN SOCIETY 7·30p 12:00a MOVIE:\THE PELICAN BRIEF\ AT 7:30 & W:OO PM Friday, April 15 CJ OOp II .OOp DUTCH PIPERS PERFORMANCE Saturday, Apri116 9 OOa I OOp ACCEPTED STUDENTS PROGRAM MEETING -STUDENTS & PARENT 9 30a 4 OOp MOUNTEBANKS REHEARSALS FOR MUSICAL II OOa 12 OOa DANCE MARATHON 7 30p 12 OOa MOVIE 'THE PELICAN BRIEF\ AT 7 30 & I 0 00 PM 8 OOp 10 OOp DUBRA VKA TOMSIC, PIANO MUSEUM/COLLEGE CONCERT SE 9 OOp 12 OOa STUDENT ACTIVITIES Sunday, April17 9 30a 4 OOp MOUNTEBANKS REHEARSALS FOR MUSICAL 7 OOp 9·30p PHI lOT A ALPHA MEETINGS 7 30p 12 OOa MOVIE.''THE PELICAN BRIEF\ , AT7.30& IOOOPM Monday, April 18 5 30p II OOp ORIENTATION 6 30p II OOp MOUNTEBANKS REHEARSALS FOR MUSICAL 7 OOp R OOp WRUC BOARD MEETING 7 iOp 12 OOa MOVIE \THE PEUCAN BRIEF\ AT730&1000PM COLLEGE CENTER AUD. COLLEGE CENTER 406 CHET'S CHET'S SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 1 FERO I 02 - COFFEEHOUSE COLLEGE CENTER 409 COLLEGE CENTER 203 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. CHET'S FERO HOUSE I OO'S COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM CC UPPER CLASS DINlNG HALL COLLEGE CENTER AUD MEMORIAL CHAPEL COFFEE FERO I 02 FERO 102 COLLEGE CENTER 409 COLLEGE CENTER AUD COLLEGE CENTER 203 COLLEGE CENTER 205 COLLEGE CENTER 409 FERO 102 COLLEGE CENTER 204 COLLEGE CENTER AUD Tuesday, April 19 5:00p 7:30p DELTA PSI DELTA MEETING 5:30p ll:OOp ORIENTATION 6:00p 7:30p SHPE MEETING 6:00p 8:00p BIG BROTHERS/BIG SISTERS TRAINING 7:30p 9:30p SPEAKER: SAMUELBETANCES SPONSOR: STUDENT ACTIVITY 8:00p 12:00a MOVIE: THE BLUES BROTHERS AT 8:00 & 10:00 PM Wednesday, April 20 6:00p 8:00p LATINO HERITAGE MONTH COM A.L.A.S. 6:00p 8:00p MOUNTEBANKS MEETING 7:00p 8:00p OUTING CLUB 8:0Qp 10:00p LATINO HERITAGE MONTH 8:0Gp 12:00a CHET'S COMMITTEE 8:30p 9:00p DELTA PSI Df:LTA MEETING 8:30p I O:OOp G.L.B.A. CLUB MEETING COLLEGE CENTER 203 COLLEGE CENTER 204 - COLLEGE CENTER-409 HUMANITIES 113 'FERO 102 COLLEGE CENTER AUD SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 .FERO 102 SOCIAL SCIENCES 103 COLLEGE CENTER 409 SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 CHET'S COLLEGE CENTER 204 COLLEGE CENTER 203 COFFEEHOUSE PRESENTS OPENMIC NIGHT ANY SONG ANY VOICE ANY MUSIC FRIDAY NIGHT APRIL 15, 1994 9:00PM FREE COFFEE FERO HOUSE UNION COLLEGE FOR MORE INFORMA- TION CALL 388-6118 ' i

,. '··. ,· .. t. · . . ' By Leigh Rubin C. .. a!Ors Synclic.._, Inc• o 1994 LilQh Aubin~ The profe$sortook·great pride RUBES® By Leigh Rubin __,...... - In giving new stud~nts· an Immediate working knowledge-of the subject. Apparently, the subject was not entirely los~ on young Socrates. BY DoN_. TRA.CRTE - CLA55 ~-- THE SPATS by JEFF PICKERIIIIIiiiiiN_G ____________ _, . Hr,j T~EY~ ~ FOR A GUY ON . lt>W ~ '(ou ALWJff'S ~ -mAr AM(~ /N'IJT WANT£(;) WHO LDOI<$ f~O$ FUG-iTIVf.~ LOOK LJKE ONE OF ~~ ~ YoURCoVSIN CRARL.lE. _MY RELATIVE~? ( k AID CL~S

; . I · April 14, 1994, page 18 SPORTS Men's Lacrosse Nipped by Springfield by Bill Endo Colltributing Writer The men's lacrosse team has had a long road to where it is now. AU winter long, 6 am practices were exhausting and some early injuries to some of the players did not help either. Spring break was· a great relief for aU the players. In Florida, the team was able to practice and play on a full field. Also, sitting on the beach and dreaming of swimming to far away places was a great break from exams. While in Florida. the team played against Williams. Bowdoin. and Connecticut Col- lege. All the games were good, and everyone got a chance to play. l11e team left florida with a 1-:2 record and came home to start off our season with a loss Z~gainst Clarkson. Then. a very disappointing loss against Os- wego. llowever. the team came together and crushed Skidmore 10-1. The next game. they rallied goal for goal against Springfield. only to loose 10-12. The lacrosse team is a very young team. On the defense there me four returners and three rook- ies. Returner, Eric Williams, has proven his defense to be a threat on both sides ·of the field with his goal in the Springfield game. 11H~ other returners Eric Skulte, Scott Lent, and Owen McCarthy have shown their defensive unit to have a lot of potential. They have the ability to keep the .shot-s from the outside and to bring the ball back down to the offense. Rookies, Neil Horgan, Bill Endo, and Craig h;elis finish off the defensive squad. The defensive Mid fielders have been a potent threat this spring. Bill Nook has been an key part to this defense. He has been playing well at both ends of the field and his hard work has been a good example for the rest of the team. Dr. Todd Ray's speed and agility have proven to be a great asset during face-offs. Jimmy Troy's hitting and Rico Vargas' solid footwork have helped the Jdensl.! keep the opposing offense u1Hkr wntrol. The rookies, Mario Maltese. Jason Pinney, and Ken Blaszka ha\e been able to play \'>ell \\hen they arc used. The attack has three rctumers. Teddy Side!, Paul Wakino, and Dan Fabian. Ted has been play- ing very well, scoring several times in every game and forcing the other team to make mistakes on their clears. Rookie, Dave Parrott has given the word rookie a new meaning. In the past few games, he has had great statistics and wiH bean offensive threat for rest ofcollege career. The other rookies, Justin Perkins and Micah Sherman, have been receiving playing time also. While 011 the field they have used their natural skills to become a thteat to any defense. TI1e midfield has gained a lot of depth this year. Returners Leigh Schmitt, John Mendelson, Jeff Pattridge, Chris Irving, and Cory Holbrough have working well with the ro0kies. Th.e micl fielders have been a constant threat with hard outside shots and good .picking in close. l11e rook- ies Gary Edmands,. Eli Benson, Chris Delano, John Sicinski, AJam Riclm1an, and John Eldh haH~ all been constantly improv- ing ami sho'v'<ing plenty of talent. The starting Goali·e Steve Rotkicv,:icz has constantly per- formed well. llc has come up \\ ith the big saves at important times in the games and has kept the defense motivated when the team is down by a few goals. Rookie Justin Braff has been con- stantly improving and learning from Steve. With sixteen rookies, the team '· mqe <!tnncnr.~i~nst_s Leigll Scltmitt prepares to launcll a sllot against Springfield in Union's loss on Motzday; (plloto by Stone Newman/TC) is quite solid for the rest of this season and the next few also. The schedule begins to pick up now. With home games including Hartwick, Siena, and RPI, the next month should be exciting. .,·1: APRIL 25th ACHILLES RINK AT8PM Tickets Available Beginning April 14th in CC 408 Ticket sales begin 12:30 Today l.Sttident must present I.D. 2.Student may not purchase more than 5 tickets 3.Students must pay in full for ti,ckets 4.Students may pay in cash or check $12 for on-campus =Union students, faculty, staff, and administration $18 for off-campus = anyone . without an ID Tickets will also ~e sold by Ticketmaster for $18 + ( ' ~:

SPORTS April 14, 1994, page 19 Track and Field Runs Well Against Regional Fo·es Continued frompage 20 In the Hammer, Jon Gainor placed second with a throw ·Of 40.82m and Damon Bizzell seized fourth place with a throw of29.90m. In the Javelin, Chuck Clerici, Matt Johnson, anq AI Poremba snatched first, second, and third respectively, with throws of 54.86m, 52.51m, and 42.41 m. In the Triple Jump, Matt Stem placed second with a leap of 41.8m., while Chris Sanchak picked up fourth with a jump of 38m3 1/2 inches. Matt Stem also placed third in the Long Jump with a .leap of 18ft 11 l/2 inches. In the High Jump the trio of Marcello Tellez,. Nolan Farris, and Matt Ste~ placed first, sec- ond .• and third t:espectively, with jumps of 6 feet 4 in, 5ft 10 in, and 5ft lO·in. · In the Shot Put, the victor was one of our previous Union Col- . lege Athlete's ofthe Week. None otherthan big Rich Pulver placed Nadine Filsosi winning the lOO meter hurdles race. (ABOVE) (PHOTOS BY JOSH HAINEStrC) Marcello Tellez winning the high jump last weekend (BELOW) NOTICE: in this event with a toss of 14.8 m. Paul Telesco, with a throw of 12.34 m came in fourth place. In the running events, the day started off right with Nick Conway placing second in the steeplechase in a time of 11 :07 .2. Nick .persevered to fight the hur- ricane winds that marred most of the times. It is not fun to battle a 50 mph wind in your face com- ing down a back stretch, but Nick managed fine. Union then dusted Hamilton in the 4 X lOOm with the team of Manning, Morton, Simon and Riggi, running a time of 43.8 s. In the 1500m, the dis- tance men stepped it up after an embarrassing performance versus RPI on Wednesday to capture third and fourth. These deeds were perfonned by Seth Rudin and John Metz respectively, with times of 4:22,6 and 4:24.1. Rudin missed the whole Indoor season due to an injury but came back in fantastic fonn on Saturday. In the 11 0 high hurdles, Scott Corley bruised his way to second place in 18.8s ... these are some seri- ously high hurdles. In the 400m. the trio of Simon, Leding, and Gifford placed first, third, and fourth. Their times were 52.3, 53.5, and 54.3 respectively while the wind was kicking like Bruce Lee. Also running into the wind in the 1OOm were Dave Riggi, Sharon Morton, and Frank Attah. These runners placed first, third, and fourth in that order in times of 1 1.2, 11.8, and 12.0 respec- tively. Now, mind you, these athletes were running the whole race straight into the wind, and still managed to fight it off and score points for the team. In the 800m, Russ Stram upped his in- tensity level and put two impres- sive wins together in a row. On Wednesday against RPI, he ran 2:00.2, placing first. On Satur- day, he placed first in a highly competitive 800m, running· 2:01.5. In the 400 intermediate hurdles, Scott Corley fought back into the race to grab a tough third place in a time of 65.4s. In the 200m, those three 1OOm men finished once again in the same order, with Riggi grabbing first and Morton edging out Attah for third, while Att.ah had to settle for fourth be- ing ousted by 0 .. 1 s. l11eir times were 22. 7, 23.9, and 24.0s respec~ tively. In the 5000m Jon Comeau ran all day to place fourth in a time of17:28.1. l11en the 4X400 came up, and as mentioned before, Union's team beat Hamilton by 10 seconds. In the Women's competition, Union placed fourth scoring 22 points out of the 12 women on the team. Michele Woodward got fourth- in the Hammer with a toss of 17.l8m. In the Javelin, Miss Jack of all Trades, Nadine Filosi, placed first with a throw of 18.21 m. She destroyed the rest of the competition in this event that she just picked up. Dawn ·Landry placed third in the triple jump leaping 9.02m. Nadine and Dawnteamed up in the longjump to get second and third respec- tively, with jumps of 4.38m and 4.32m. Michelle Woodward also finished fourth in the Discus with a hurl of 17.60m. In the running events, the women started off in the 1500m with Atnelia Audette placing third in a time of 5:24.6. In the 100 high hurdles, Nadine Filosi dusted her so called competition to fin- ish first in a blazing 18.4s. Nadim: bounced back to grab third in the I OOm in a time of 14.7. In the 800m, Liza Morse and Sarah Teasdale teamed up to place third and fourth with times of 2:31.2 and 2:41.9. Nadine came back for yet another event in the 200m to plac~ third in 30.8. Then to wrap up the meet for the women they lost a heart breaker to Hamilton in the 4X400 (Audette, L. Morse. S. Morse. Teasdale) losing by two seconds to finish second in a time of 4:40.5. The women have the front line talent. but lack the depth at this point to be able to have a chance in every event because they do not have women in every event. So Union College women, stop running perimeters and don a jersey and compete for Union Track and Field. These were great perfonnances for both teams, bouncing back from losses to RPI, where there were also some outstanding per~ fonnances, but not enough juice to defeat them. Union Track and Field WO\tld like to thank Coach Nardiello and Coach Cottrell for running two very efficient meets back to back. :TtJack: se:astht A\f~r a''St~cmlo · 11i)6te f·~ili~~2\t~iJ,it1~®:~::4Wi dfidtbftd itlihe !JqilifMJ,r!i¥t'h~'';fiif.!ffi· ·. · ··· 'Now'itftat l111e,reaffi~1§~~tdtdrobls~ he isha'bk ··· trt'~Out~r Rugby Whips RPI C Ollfi11ued from page 20 hope to see you at future games. Both the men and women rugby teams will be playing at home this Saturday. We encour- age all, young and old (yes. that means you Skip), to stop by and enjoy a day of elegant violence. Keep an eye out for the continu~ ing saga of Union College rugby. The May 5th showing of the award winning movie MENTOR PROGRAM Sign-up to be a 'Ment~r to an incoming freshman the Piano has been moved to 9 & 11 PM due to an on Wed- Fri 4/13-4/15 10 am- 4 pm College Center campus speaker.

April 14, 1994 PAGE20 Union Track Ousts Hamilton, Siena, and lferkimer by Mike Leding C01rcordiensis Staff TI1is past Saturday, going into the mile relay, Hamilton was leading Union 84-82. Union's mile relay team ·Of Stram, Leding, Sullivan, and Simon then de- stroyed Hamilton by about 30 meters in a time of 3:29. The meet was tied 87-87 going into the final event- the discus. At this meet, the top four placed( points being 5,3,2, I) so Union could not afford to let Hamilton grab first in this event. Coach Larry Cottre11 made the discus throwers aware of this situation. In return, Rich Pulver destroyed Hamilton's top dog by almost 2 meters with a throw of 39.74m. Matt Johnson was edged out of second place in the discus by .02 meters, placing third to g1ve Union a 94-90 victory. The his- torians of the school have to dig through the archives to find out the last time that Union defeated Hamilton in Track. All in all, it was a tremendous effort. E\'eryonc' s points combirrcd to give this Track team its first total win in awhile. Placing in the men's competi- tion, were the following people in their individual events: Continued on Page 19 Fresflman Dave Riggi winning tlte 100 meter dash last weekendln an impressive 11.2 seconds (photo by Josll Haines!TC) Union Ruggers Demolish RPI by Charles King and Rob DuPuy Contributing Writers The Rugby Gods made their presence known with a vengeance on Saturday. Not only did they smile down on URFC, but they also deposited odorous feces on the RPI ruggers. l11e Union men played their role in the 39-9 shel- lacking, but credit must be given to our divine support. To describe each try in all their glory would take far too long, but suffice to say, It was a grand display of 15 man rugby. Veteran co-captain, Rob \'Puppy\ DuP1,1y, contributed two tries, one of which was a display of pure power, the other pure ac- cident. Once again, the serum went above and beyond the call of duty. Chris \I don't know when practice starts\ Bangs, Brian \Cooooop\ Davenport and Stone \Valvo's out, so I guess he'll do\ Newman, all added one to their portfolio. I for one must now swallow my pride and take back the harsh words I spol5e fall tenn. For the first time, in a long time, the line actually had some- thing to do with our victory. Now for the truth. The line was, as usual, the epitome of speed and grace. We ran the ball sixty to seventy meters at a time, only to hand it over unselfishly to the serum. The line did manage to post some points as well. George \damn I look good\ Bazos and Bill \I should be behind\ Bahrs, both added five to the final score. Lee \two for seven\ Popper, a! so managed to tack on four to the final tally. All in all, the game was an outstanding display of strong team mgby. The killer B's showed great promise during their opening game against RPI. The B 's only try was scored by Lothar (What's his real name anyway?) after a text book execution of second phase Rugby. With the wind at his back Seth \Horseshack\ Brown split the uprights to give the B's their well deserved vic- tory. Eric \Muffin\ Murray made his presence known with the unfortunate hospitalization of an RPI scmmmer, but we are sure the hit was legal. All joking aside, we would like to thank UMED for their help, and we Colltillued Oil Page 19 Union Rugby players battle for tire hall in tltis weeke11d 1 s llome win over RPl (plroto hy J. llaines!TC) Baseball Sweeps Hamilton; Home Season Begins Saturday by Joltin' Joe Saltzbart Sports Editor Cold, overcast, and muddy conditions prevailed this past weekend as your Union Base- ball Dutchmen traveled to the neutral sight of Albany to take on the Continentals of Hamilton College. Timely hitting and sound defense made the differ- ence, as the Dutchmen swept the Continentals in this heated se- ries. Pitchers Paul Drumm and Brett Rubin got the first two wins of regular season play for the Uniot'l Me11. The overall record for the Dutchmen is now 4-1 0 and they have a league record oftwo wins and four de- feats. The first game was high- lighted by the complete· game pitched by Paul Dnunm and the 2-3 bitting performance of Freshman David \Mumbles\ B~rnstein. Mumbles and: Johnny Aurora each had' a RBI and Sophomore Mike Bemardo had2 RBis to propel! theDtltch- men to a 4-2 victory. In the sec- ond game, the Union Men took a thrilling 5-4 victory when Dave Dagastino scored on a . seventh inning suicide squeeze laid down by Freshman Eric Kujawski. Dagastino went 2-4 with a RBI. Sophomore, Jimmy Knight came in relieffor Starter Jay Greenstein to pitch 4 good innings. Rubin was inserted to pitch in the 7th and put out the fire, as Union held on to win. Titis weekend, your Baseball Dutchmen take on the Univer- sity of Rochester and R.I.T in a four game homestand, on Satur- day and ·Sunday. TI1afs right! Tite home opener is this Satur- day, at Ipm and 4pm, at Central Park with President Htdl throw- ing out the first baH to Senior Catcl1er Joe Saltzbart. In addi- tion to this great entertainment, it's hat day at the ball park. Any stl1dent who was acttral!y around · when the Dutchmen last had a winning season wilt receive a ganiet and white Unim1 Game Hat along with a complimentary autographed team baseball. Fi- nally, as promised, directions to Central Patk, Home ofthe Union Baseball Dutchmen, are as fol- lows:_(Frotn the College) Ta:ke Union Ave east Inwards the Price Chopper fo. Maclellan Ave. . Take a right ollto Maclellai1 and . the11 a qltick left onto Eastem · Ave. Take the first right after ·the Price Chopper onto Central . Ave·, and follow it into the Park. The Stadium is in the back left of the park past the lake and the playground. TI1e weather is sup- posed to be good this weekend with hi·ghs in the 70's, so bring the whole family, fratcmity, so~ rority, floor, etc. Season Box Seats can be obtai11ed through Gary Reynolds, Dutchmen Head Bas.eball Coach and Assistant Football Coach.

. .. nncnr t.ensts The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 -- -- .. -- -· - -- . ' . .. Volume CXXITI, Number XIX Schenectady, New York April21, 1994 Students Return From National Research Convention by Caroline Paine News Editor Twenty..,six Union students at.., tended the 8th National Confer- ence on Undergraduate Research (NCUR) on April 14-16. The Union students and four accom- panying professors traveled. by bus, for twelve hours to Kalamazoo, Michigan. The con- ference was hosted there at West- em Michigan University. Pro- fessor Werner (Chemistry), Pro- fessor Peak (Physics), Professors Thabet and Ghaly (Civil Engi- neering) were the Union profes- sors in attendance. NCUR was established in 1987. The goal of the program is to promote undergraduate re- search, scholarship, and creativ- ity in partnership witl1 faculty members. Conference partici- pants came from co11eges and uni ver.siti es from across the United States and Canada. Approximately 16,000 people attended .the conference last weekend. Two days were allot- ted for oral presentations and for poster displays. Twenty-two Union students gave twenty minute presentations and four displayedposters to the academia present. Professor Walid Thabet, ofCivil Engineering, said, \The presentations were exce11ent overall. The standard of excel- lence was great, especially among the Union students.\ Posters weFe displayed for two hour sessions. There were ap- proximately 35 posters per ses- sion, which students and faculty could observe and ask questions. Thomas Pannhorst, a senior chemistry major, reflected, \Many people in other fields would come up and ask questions [about my project].\ There was a large number of viewers for the projects. \Union was exception- ally represented,\ Pannhorst said, \We sent a large group ofpeople, considering our size.\ Maria Bruno, a senior econom- ics major, gave an oral presenta- tion entitled, \TI1e Efficiency of the Public Foster Care System in New York State.\ She was im- pressed with the organization ani;\., the scheduling of events. A wide. Continued on page 4 .. Spring is It ere! Dafftidlls growing outside College Center. . (plroto by F.,JeremySmitltfor Th~.Concordiensis) Admissions Raises Standards by Liza De Koven Contributing Writer Letters of admission to Union College have been sent out for the class of 1998 and ·union is cur- rently waiting for accepted stu- dents to reserve their spots. The admissions office is aiming for a freshmen class of 510,which is twenty fewer than this year's class. \The academic indicators for Union are much better than they have been,\ said Dan Lundquist, Dean of Admissions and Finan- cial Aid. \The top end is fatter and the bottom end is thinner.\ The College admissions staff puts accepted applicants into one of three groups that are determined by scores and class rank only. A member of \group A\ must have a composite of qualities. They Union Lets Its Green Light Shine For Earth Day -- must have a 600 or over oii all of their tests and must be in the top I 0% of their class. A member of \group B 01 must have no less than a 500 on 'any of their tests, and they must be in the top 25% of their class. A member of \group C\ may have a high class rank and low test scores, or they may have a low class rank and high test scores. by Michelle Ellis Concordiensis Staff Striving to promote energy ef- ficiency at Union College, Tom Smythe has implemented an in- novative program: Green Lights. The program is spon- sored nationally by the Environ- mental Protection Agency. Green Lights is billed as \A Bright Investment in the Envi- romnent.\ Project Green Lights encourages state and local gov- ernments, as well as large scaled U.S., corporations and institu- tions to install energy efficient lighting. Project Green Lights is · a voluntary and non-regulatory program, in which participants introduce energy efficient light- ing wherever this process will Inside.: News •. u .................... 2-4 World, News ..•.......•... 5 Committees .....•......... 6 Science & Health ...... 7 OPIED ............... 0 ••••••• 8 Letters •a•eu•••••••••••e••••• 9 Arts •••••••••••••••••••e• 10-11 . Calendar .................. 12 Personals ................. 13 Spotts ................. 14-16 .be profitable. In addition, project Green Lights aims to improve the overall quality of lighting nation- ally . .-- ..... il\VGreen .n ··Lights P A R T N E R The national long term benefits of this project outweigh the short term costs. Green Lights ad- dresses imperative issues of en- er~:,ry efficiency, pollution preven- tion, and economic competitive- ness. The institutions, corpora- tions, and governments commit- ted to this project, will profit by substantially decreasing their electricity bills, improving their lighting capabilities, and raising worker productivity levels. The EPA stated that lighting accounts for 20 to 25 percent of annual electricity consumption in the U.S. The EPA predicts that if energy efficient lighting were implemented universally in prof- itable situations, the electricity necessary for lighting would be cut by 50 percent. 1n addition, the national electricity demand would be reduced by 10 percent. In tum, this reduction would reallocate 18.6 billion per year from rate payer bills. This capital could be invested in a variety of environ- mental programs. The program will also reduce yearly sulfur di- oxide emissions by 1.7 million tons. Lastly, other forms of na- tional pollution will be targeted such as boiler ash, scrubber waste, acid drainage, coal min- ing waste, radioactive waste, and natural gas I eakage. Union joined the Green Lights program .several years ago and has successfully completed the first three installation procedures outlined by the EPA. Campus Operations has been conducting a thorough survey of Union's facilities in order to evaluate where the lighting on campus should be upgraded. After this extensive survey is completed, an options analysis for favorable upgrades will be activated. Uni~n is currently undergoing Contillued o1z page 4 \Union's visibility is broaden .. ing,\ said Dean Lundquist. \This year there have been many more applicants from foreign coun- tries, California, the midwest. and the Southwest.\ Union College also accepted a few more women for the class of 1998 than they have in previous years. \We are finally close to a fifty-fifty ratio,.,, said Dean Lundquist. \For a school that was at one time all male, this is in- credible.\ \For the past three years, Union College has had an in- creasing number of applicants,\ Continued on Page 4 Underclassmen Must Participate in Lottery by David Levine Editor-in-chief Current sophomores and fresh- men who had expressed interest in living off-campus next year will have to attend the April 29 housing lottery, according to Trish Williams, head of Resi- dence Life. Approximately 50 students asked to be released from the requirement forcing sophomores and juniors to live on campus, but \we won't be able to release students before the lot- tery because we have just been informed that more people are going on a teim abroad this fall.\ Additional factors effecting this decision are estimations from the Admissions office on the number of freshmen who will enroll at Union in the fall, on the number of intemational students attending Union next year, and estimations ofthe net number of exchange stu- dents coming or leaving Union next year. In addition to the in- creased number of students study- ing abroad, the Admissions office is expecting that the class of 1998 will be smaller than classes from previous years. Compounding the problem, is the anticipated in- crease in the number of unoccu- pied beds in college-owned greek housing. This year alone there are 1 0 beds 'twhich could have been filled,\ in the Greek houses, ac- cording to Williams. Residence life cannot make commitments to students seeking off-campus housing because the college anticipates filling 100 per- cent of the available beds on cam- pus when configuring the annual budget. This fall, only 98 per- cent ofthe available beds on cam- pus were filled, Releasing students from their on-campus living obligations is tricky because Residence Life needs to ascertain an accurate prediction as to how many sc· niors will require onMcampus liv- ing arrangements. Traditionally, approximately 1 5 pcn.:ent of the senior class requests to live on the Contitmed otz page 4

· April 21, 1994, page 2 Maine~ This fuii:.Credit , · .·· · tember·2.;'17) on thls bealttlfitl part·· per~weeksessiotlS on Catnpu:S. ~·farifi~ p}]lfi~§fl dependent research ·are featured. If inter·· fessor Carl George, Biology RoOM S'3o:Z~:' · Center; ~88.-6330. · The Biology Club and Dep~~r:t~::;'~~;w~~§1~~P~rr~;;~~','l WATCH '94 in Provincetown,< · sunday, May 1. we leave caml1Jus sa.tiirlPcllvn,i,~;~Jf~l~·~r\xi~~~R~ 1 1f~n~~; 1 ri afternoon and evening :ftee; 4 't,A\i~iHiii!i{~~t!A~:~{i}';£ nl · Dolphin Fleet on ,..,,nnnv '1.1t(llrnil.1:2~ 2;h[otiJr§·11b\Ffunt:H; cafupus ~ly . . ' . ev .. ~ .ftting. and whale watcl1. Mak:e Depiittlhent otl:ice (S&E qujred at the tilrte Of Tf'!l'l~~TV:iiiHi whale wafillling tin the Cape1 tute. ;:- ·· ....... ~ ', .... ~ ·· · .. NE .: '~'S· . §·'~\ . . . CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT \ WEEKLY INCIDENT SUMMARY DATE/TIME LOCATION MONDAY; APRIL ll. 1994: 2:33 AM Humanities & CC 8:27 PM College Center 10:02 PM Engineering Lot TUESDAY, APRIL 12, 1994: 10:20 AM West College Lot 2:20PM Tennis Court Area 2:40PM Fieldhouse Lot 10:00 PM College Center WEDNESDAY. APRIL 13, 1994: 12:25 AM 11:00 AM 2:00PM 4:10PM 11:00 PM Hickok House Alumni Gym College Center Bailey Field Off Campus THURSDAY. APRIL 14.1994: 12:07 AM South College Area 8:55AM 2:22 :PM 6:00PM 7:45PM 9:35PM 10:24 PM West College Area West College Raymond/Potter Lot Nott Seward Lot Sigma Phi Area Library Field FRIDAY. APRIL 15, 1994: 1:30PM 2:01PM 6:30PM 5:40PM 6:28PM 8:52PM 10:23 PM Off Campu~ Incident West College Area West College Lot Alumni Gym Lot Achilles Lot Chester Arthur Hickok House Area SATURDAY, APRIL 16. 1994; 1:11 AM South College 4:14PM Raymond 6:23PM West College 9:00PM Richmond 9:40PM West College 10:00 PM College Center SUNDAY. APRIL 17,1994: 2:20 AM South College 3:17AM 1:34PM 3:23PM 4:15PM Raymond South Hickok Area Chest!'lr Arthur Campus Grounds INCIDENT THEFT: Paper supplies taken from rest rooms. SAFETY HAZARD: Minor grease spill-cooking grease recycle container overflowed. Contained and cleaned-up. FIRE: Minor fire in student's vehicle. SFD responded. Cause listed as accidental. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized. Unregis- tered repeat violator. Freshman. Conduct Charges filed. HARASSMENT: Student subjected to obscene remarks by sports visitor. Suspect identified and warned. , PARKING VIOLA1JON: Vehicle immobilized. Unregis- tered repeat violator-staff member. Misapplication of parking decal that was reported stolen. Investigation continuing. ASSAULT: Confrontation between students. Minor injuries. Matter reconciled between parties. SECURITY HAZARD: Entry door not closing/locking. SAFETY HAZARD: Sprinkler heads leaked. Repairs made. VANDALISM: Wall damage-holes made in basement walls. VANDALISM/MISCHIEF: Eggs thrown on turf field. ASSAULT: Alumnus reports being struck by student. Incident occurred off campus. Student's identity is known. SUSPICIOUS PERSONS: Three youthful visitors acting suspiciously. Area searched; unable to locate. PROPERTY DAMAGJ!;: Student's car stuck in lawn. FIRE ALARM: Caused by burnt toast in dining hall. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized. Unregis- tered repeat violator. PARKING VIOLATION: Misapplication oftemporary parking permit. TRESPASS: Visitors searching dumpsters for bottles- warned off campus. THEFT: Student's sports bag stolen. ASSAULT: Manager of A Plus Market assaulted. Suspects believed to be Union Students. SPD Investigating. THEFT: Staff member's unlocked bicycle .stolen. PARKING VIOLATION: Fradulent vehicle registration .. Uppercla~sman registered,vehicle for Fre~hman. Conduct Charg~s filed. . · .. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Staff Member's vehicle window broken. by !l .golf baiL PARKiNG :VIOLAl'ION: Vehicle immobilhe<J,. Unregijs tered repeat violator. . FIRE ALARM: 2nd floor hallway. Caused by steam from shower. Chei;king on detect 0 r an~ venting. SUSPICIOUS PE:RSONS: Students being followed. Checked· area-suspects gone. Descriptions provided. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Window in lounge area broken- accidental. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Student's room door broken- liability established. FIRE ALARM: Caused by burnt toast in dining hall. Request to relocate toaster. EQUIPMENT PROBLEM: Recurrent problem with electrical system-breakers trip. Electrical Department advised. SECURITY HAZARD: Door mullion removed. Structural Dept. called in to resecure. Cause mischief or accidental. HARASSMENT: Abusive telephone calls to radio station staff members. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Reported odor indicative of substance abuse reported-unconfirmed/unfounded. fiRE ALARM/LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Caused by intentional activation of pull box. Life Safety Notice filed. THEFT: LiCense plate stolen from student's vehicle. FIRE ALARM: 2nd floor hallway. Caused by steam frQm shower. Detector and venting being checked. RECOVERED fROPERTY: City street and stop sign found dumped on campus. City notified and claimed signs.

NEWS April 21, 1994, page 3 Betances.Delivers Speech During Latino Awareness Week by L. Scoop Paska Concordiensis Staff As part of Union College's Latino Heritage Month celebra- tion, the African and Latino Alli- ance of Stud~nts sponsored guest speaker Samuel Betances Tues- day night, in the College Center Auditorium. Betances' topic was \Forgoing Coalitions of Interest Instead of Coalitions of Color Through Multicultural Education.\ His speech combined personal expe- riences with attention to Ameri- can corruption by 'the media. Betances felt that diversity is a source ·of strength in American corporations, and he felt that our nation should not look to other countries, notably Japan, for in- spiration, since Japan is a homo- geneous atmosphere. Born in Harlem, Betances' par- ents divorced and he was raised in Pue~o Rico, but moved !o the South Bronx at age ten. His ex- periences in grammar school have made him believe in the. power of knowledge and language. \You cannot tell people it is better to know less than more ... it is impor- tant to show diversity,\ said Betances. Betances was talJght to know the importance of reading in the world, and subsequently, he read many biographies and learned middle-class English through the sertnons of Peter MarshalL Jus- tifying the importance of reading, Betances said, \Everything below the neck is minimum wage.\ Betances also felt every Ameri- can needs to learn two languages. \You are a fool ifyou don't know English in America, yet a fool if you don't know another lan- guage, as well.\ Hispanics, in his view, can serve as a role model of making the human colors blend, and cel- ebrating that blend. He noted how television shows have con- sistently portrayed white shows as the source of true values like \TI1e Brady Bunch.,\ and \Eight is Enough,\ while black shows like \Sanford and Son,\ and \The Jeffersons\ serve as outlets for us to laugh at the themes shown. Until the arrival of \The Cosby Show,\ Betances noted, \audi- ences laughed at the situations, not with them.\ He added that better scripts need to be written, which ultimately help bring about his values ofliving balanced lives and networking with other people. As a professor ofsociology at Northeastern Illinois Univer~ity, Betances also spoke about what the education system should he providing for people today. ·~stu­ dents should be taught what they . do not know and not be failed for not knowing it.\ To reach full awareness of na- tional diversity, Betances stated all people, \must do their fair share of the work. Those who do not engage in any activity should not discriminate and judge oth- ers.\ Betances advocated the struggle for women and minori- ties in :fightingJor their rights and their issues to be heard. An open panel discussion fol- ~ lowed the speech, in which stu- ] dents asked questions of~ Betances. ~· 0 Betances frequently lectures on ';:, topics ranging from diversity in ~ higher education, to the politics _g of bilingual education. In addi- tion to teaching, he serves as a consultant to a number of corpo- rations including McDonald's, AT&T, Xerox, and Merrill Lynch, addressing topics such as diversity in the work place. He has appeared with Phil Donahue, Opral1 Winfrey, and Peter Jennings. Betances brought the issues concerning multi-cultural educa- tion to the forefront. Students Participate in Mock Legislature at Capitol in Albany by Elissa Hecker Concordiensis Staff The New York State Intercol- legiate Model Legislature held its 1994 session at the, Capitol dur- ing the weekend of Apri114 -17. Senator Steve Saland of the New York State Senate led his legisla- tive staff to the organization of the conference. The purpose of the weekend was to encourage those students interested in the legisla- tive process to participate in a mock assembly. Union was rep- resentedby four members fnclud- ing Bill Ferguson,' Sandy Pembum, Rachel Schaffer, and Elissa Hecker. The Conference was organized to begin with a course in legisla- tion, after which the students acted as New York State Repre- sentatives while serving on one of four committees consisting of Ways and Means, Children and Families, Codes, and ECON. The students also debated and voted on the assembly floor concerning issues for these groups. Each committee was facilitated by an elected chainilan and appointed clerk, and the committee mem- bers discussed and debated bills, acts, and amendments from the actual NYS governing body, as well as those authorized by indi- vidual students. _ Midway through the weekend, two parties had already formed. The tally was so close that the majority party had only one more member than that of the minor- ity. Elections and appointments were then held within each party and on the assembly floor. The bills, acts, and amend- ments passed by each committee were submitted to the Rules Com- mittee. This body consisted ofthe majority and minority leaders, whips, committee chairs, and the Speaker of the Assembly. Those individuals discussed the pro- posed legislation until 1 :30 A.M. on Saturday, .selecting the most important and debatable issues to place on th'e Rules Report. This report was. to be the calendar used the following day. Once accustomed to parlia- mentary guidelines like Robert's Rules, the students' involvement increased, and they began to op- erate as a cohesive assembly. Is- sues ranged from the death pen- alty, child welfare laws, the bud- get, domestic violence, health care insurance packages, ·and constitutional issues. These, along with many others, were de- bated with fervor and voted upon the cm.lrse of the conference. Al- though the bills passed often rep- resented the official vote of the NYS government, there were - some differences, as the student members were not responsible to specific constituencies. Rather, they were there to learn about the official process, while debating and votjng unimpeded by any- thing other than personal views. During the process, caucuses were called sporadically when need~d. Filibustering and other more undesirable aspects of real politics occurred, granting the students a look into the frustrat- ing situations often experienced by real legislators. In addition, a surprise governor was appointed by the organizers, and she pro- ceeded to veto a student bill. The assembly responded to her veto with an almost unanimous over- ride, and an that rarely, if ever, takes place in the actual state government. The conference required an exhaustive amount of concentra- tion, work, and stamina. Each day began at9:00 A.M. and often ran beyond 11:00 P.M .. Yet, even though the committees recessed at 11 :00 P.M., political discus- sions., dealings, and strat.egies were discussed behind closed doors in the hotel until four or five in the morning. There were a number of com- mendations and awards distrib- uted at the close of the confer- ence. Of those, Union students took home four. Bill Ferguson won for Overall Best Debater on the Assembly Floor, and Ellisa Hecker took home plaques for Minority Leader, Best Debate, and Clerk for the Children and Families Committee. There was a great emphasis placed such awards throughout the d~ration of the con- ference. Tlle presence of awards was supposed to encou~~ge debate and participation. However, the consultant presence of judges and verbal reminders of final compe- tition prizes often intem1pted the process. Unfortunately, in some cases the desire to win outweighed the desire to participate in a party atmosphere and instead encour- aged individual motivations. How- ever, each student was requested to fill out an evaluation form at the end of the weekend and a committee was organized to look into future improvements. TI1e NYSML has existed for a number of years, involving many New York State universi- ties and colleges. The organizer of the 1994 program, in his con- cluding remarks, informed the Assembly that they were, by far, one of the best he had worked with in fifteen years. *****NOTICE***** All statements for Stude.nt Forum President and Vice-Presidential . ' . . . . Positions are due by Monday at noon on High Density Disks. PHOTOGRAPHS WILL BE TAKEN MONDAY FROM 7-8 P.M.

.. April 21, 1994, page 4 NEWS Students Return. From NC·UR T.G.I.F. Happy Hour·at Chet's Every Friday_afterno.on 4:30-6:30 Don't miss this opportunity ·for·· free food! ! ! All are welcome . Coming soon to a pub· near you ..... \Putting on the Hits\ Lip Sync Contest on April 28th First Prize $75 Tom Pannl10rst '94, Cl1emistry major, wit/1 l1is rese(Jrclt project presented at NCUR. (J.Raines/TC) Sign up in Student Activities , Continuedfrompage 1 range of topics were covered and no major difficulties were expe- rienced. \I expected it to be more technical,\ Bruno said. The con- ference had contributions from all disciplines including the humani- ties; political sCience and eco- nomics, as ·well a~ the sciences and engi!'eering: · . The NCUR trip was a success for Union. All presentations went well and the participants had a good time. \It was interesting to see what other stuclents around All Current Freshmen, Soph~_mores Requires .to Attend Lottery Continuedfrompage I Union grounds. Residence Life reserves a certain number of beds for seniors. However, the num- ber of seniors who will actually require housing from Residence Life fluctuates before and after the Housing Lottery. Some se- niors find out that their financial aid packages decrease when they move off-campus, so although moving off-campus is cheaper, according to Williams, \1l1e de- crease in financial aid may cost the student more.\ 1l1ese students may request housing even though they have not signed up for the lottery. Additionally, some se- In Next Week's Issue of The Concordiensis *Student Forum elections. *Interview with Pat Haskell, V.P. Finance *Feature article on Vail Park cleanup- to take place May 7 *Introduction of SCOPES. It'll knock your socks off. niors sigri. up for the lottery, but don't inform Residence Life that they have attained off-campus housing. The uncertaintieslead Williams and Powers to believe that after the lottery, \We will be lucky if we can release 1 0 future sopho- mores and juniors from their housing requirements.\· Campus Goes Green Co11tinued from page I the third pmcess of trial installa- tion in conjunction with the final step of a final upgrade of campus facilities. Currently, Campus Operations has recognized considerable elec- trical savings. Records indicate that between the years 1993 and 1994, electrical conservations measures resulted in a net Kwh reduction of 386, 025 and a net dollar savings of $33, 356. Students should become famil- iar with the EPA's national Green Lights Campaign in conjunction with this year's Earth Day's fes- tivities. T11e Administration's en- vironmental leadership and, in particular, the hard work of Tom Smythe should be suppmted by the student body. 1l1e following infonnation has been obtained by an EPA bulle- tin newsletter entitled: United Stale.\' Environmemal Protection Agency Green Lights: A Brighl Investment in the Environment. the country are working on, re- flected Brune. Hopefully, Union will be able to have more studen~ participation next year when Unien hosts the 9th annual conference in conjunc- tion with the 200th year anniver- sary. Continued from page 1 said Dean Lundquist. \l11is year, however, the final n'umber of ap- plicants has dropped a little more than one percent.\ Last year's applicant pool consisted of 3,500 applicants, where this years num- ber of applicants dropped to . 3,450. \I am not worried about . this,'; said Dean Lundquist. \In 198 years, last year brought in the best number ofapplicants.\ \We do not want to use the waiting list this year,\ said Dean \Studs\ May 4th Lundquist. ~~1l1is year we admit- ted a few more students up front rather than waiting until May.\ Appro~imately one fourth of the class of 1998 was accepted through the early decision pro- gram. \I am areal 'early decision' fail,\ said Dean Lundquist. \It just goes to show that we are appear- ing oil more student's ~A list'!' According to Dean Lundquist, prospective Union students and parents are delighted by what they see when they visit the school and are further drawn in by the spirit of the students. \There is an inef- fable quality about Union,\ said Dean Lundquist. \People care about it.\ Many trends can be found ·in the Union College admissions process. Among them are Onion's in·creasing visibility through the assi.stance of the alumni, help in recruitment from the faculty and further assistance from the students. \Students are helping seven days a week,\ said Dean Lundquist. \Students are constantly hosting prospectiye students, giving tours or making phone calls.\ COMING NEXT WEEK:- A Special Issue of The Concordiensis.

. NEWS BRIEFS World News International News: Yugoslavia: The Serbs shot down a British jet that was trying to stop the Serbs from advancing into the Bosnian city of Gorazde, a fonner Muslim safe haven. U.N. Chief BoutFOs•Ghalihas. asked NATO to authorize air strikes to protect all six U.N. designated safe havens. Pretoria,. South Africa: Zulu leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi dropped his demands that the first open elections in South Africa be delayed. President F. W. de Klerk and African National Con- gress leader Nelson Mandela, have been receptive towards allow- . ing Buthelezi's Inkatha Freedom Party into the April 28th elec- tion. South Korea: Patriot missiles have arrived from the United States to South Korea. The Patriot missiles were there as part of the on- going dispute ab,out whether North Karea is developing nuclear weapons. Israel: Pressure from the right on Israeli soldiers, urging them to refuse to remove settlers from the occupied territories, is causing new political and religious schisms. Rwanda: Ethnic massacres have spread throughout Rwanda, ~aus­ ing almost complete anarchy. Macedonia: In an open rift with the White House, State Depart- ment officials contend that administration is bowing to pressure · fromGreek~Americans in delaying a decision to establish full dip- . Jomatic relations with the fonner Yugoslav republic ofM~cedonia. .._~ Germany: U.S. Diplomat Douglas H. J-;)nes, who heads the Ameri- can diplomatic mission in Berlin, told an audience last week that many foreigners believe that Germany, \lacks the will to confront ·.its extremism problem pragmatically.\ This has caused a stir in~ Gennaity. . .,, Japan: Foreign Minister Tsutomu Hata, stood on the verge of beitig named Japan's sixth Prime Minister in five years today when his chief rival, former Foreign Minister Michio Watm1abe, wa- . veredafter it became clear that he did not l1ave the votes to win. China: China acknowledged for the first time on Sunday, that 24 tourists from Taiwan found bumed to death in the hull of pleasure boat on March 31 in a scenic lake area of southem China, had been slained. · National News: New York: Fonner President Richard Nixon, 81, had a stroke Monday night. He is listed in stable conditian; he is alert, but un- able to talk. New York: The Federal Reserve raised interest rates for the third time in three months, to 3. 75%, sending Wall Street plunging, yet again. The big banks increase cost of consumer credit. Washington, D.C.:n1e Supreme Court has stated that it will con- sider reviving a federal ban on gun possession within I ,000 feet of a school. Washington, D.C.: Six of the seven women in the Set1ate said that they would oppose rewarding the Navy's top admiral with a four-star retirement because of his role in the Tailhook scandal. Boston: Cosmas Ndeti of Kenya won the Boston Marathon in 2:07.15. · Maine: In northern Maine a town was overrun with clntnks of ice · and the frigid waters of the river when an ice jam broke, as a result of the spring thaw. Social Security: Representative Dan Rostenkowski proposed shor- ing up the finances of Social Secu.rity by increasing the retirement age, trimming benefits for new retirees and raising payroll taxes. Hartford, Conn.: The Hartford Public School System is consid- ering a radical step: turning over management of its schools to a private, for-profit company. Stmrce: New YtJrk Times WORLD NEWS April 21, 1994, page 5 May The Best Person Get Nominated by Sarah Evans Concordiensis Staff Since Justice Harry Blackman a11110unced his retirement from the Supreme Court at the end of this term, .there has been much specu- lation about who PresidentCiinton is going to choose to replace him. World News Opinion At first everyone assumed that President Clinton was going to nominate House Majority Leader George Mitchell, a Democrat from Maine, but since he withdrew his name it has been a .guessing game as to who is going to be nomi- nated. The problem with this guessing game is the questions that are be- ing asked. Reparters and Wash- ington insiders are not asking, \Will President Clinton choose someone who is pro-choice and against the death penalty?\ Instead people are asking \Will President Clinton choose a woman, a His- panfc, an African~American, or a white male?\ Why is our society so con- cerned with what ethnic back- ground a perspective Supreme Court justice is? It is about time we became less concerned about someone's color or gender and more concerned about his or her qualifications for the job. The people of the United States should be less concemed about race and gender and more wor- ried that a liberal gets appointed to the Supreme Court. The only thing close to resem- bling a liberal remaining on the court is Justice Jehn Paul Stevens. Whoever President Clinton nominates as Justice, he or she should act as· a counter- balance to Justice Scalia. Over the past 20 years, the Court has become increasingly conserva- tive. I personally do not care who President Clinton nominates, as long as the person is the best per- son for the job. Names have been floating around for a while. It is obvious President Clinton needs to select someone who will be confirmed by the Senate and win the ap- proval of the American people. The problem that Clinton faces is that he is trying to please to many people at the same time. He is trying to please the Hispanic vote by placing Jose Cabranes on his short list; he is trying to please the African-American vote by putting Drew Days on the short list; Judith Kayes is on tbe short list to appeal to women; Bruce Babbitt is on the short list to please the environmentalists. All of these people on the short list are qualified for the job, but they were all chosen because they would please a certain segment ofthe vote. I would be offended if I was chosen for a job merely because I was a women. I think Clinton should be less concerned about pleasing certain constituents and more about choosing someone who reflects his ideological opin- ions. The Meaning Of Life and Media Craig Greenberg World New$ Editor Last week, I sat in front of a tele- vision watching an evening news man report on the tens of thou- sands of deaths in Rwanda. Then, World News Opinion I saw an update on the fighting in Bosnia. The top story had been a report on the \tragic\ accident in the skies of Iraq. It occurred to me that while the loss of two dozen men in Iraq was given the spot- light of importance and sentiment, the-Rwanda situation was treated as a mere world event of which we are simply aware. Bosnia, on the other hand, is somewhere in the middle. Do we place different levels of value upon human life? I would like to think that I value all life equally, but our behavior andre- action to today's events seem to tell a different story. When a child was injured in Bosnia, in- ternational organizations cooper- ated to supply proper medical at- tention. This was a single human life. When those men died in Iraq, the news media treated each victim as a separate great loss. Without a doubt this was a cor- rect reaction to each of these situ- ations. So what happened when we learned that tens ofthousands of Rwandans were killed? Not much more than the quoting of the latest numerical figure of the loss of life. Is this disparity in reactions due to the fact that the Rwandan situ- ation is out of our interests and control as a nation, or is it due to our perception that the lives of a small African nation's people are not as important as those that are more similar to ours? WUITEWATfR BILL Be Global! Be International! Be Sophisticated! Be Worldly! Be A Writer Write for World News. Contact Craig at X6155

April 21, 1994,_ pag~ 6 .. _AD To the Editor: . On behalf of the Committee on Committees, I would like to encourage students to apply for the various student committee positions .. The applications are now available in Student Activities Office in CC 408, and are due Wednesday, May 4. All committee appointments are made by the members of Committee on Committees. As a participant on a committee, students. have the power to impact academic, administrative, and social decisions. Also I feel by being involved, students obtain a better understanding ofhow Union College functions. We would like to see all the positions filled by the end of Spring term 1994. This is chance to make a difference, .so become involved! Sincerely, Rachel Schaffer COCChair STUDENT COMMITTEES MAJOR COMM.ITTEES ACADEMIC AFFAIRS COUNCIL Composed of the Deans ofUndergraduate and Graduate Curriculums, seven faculty members and students, this council monitors the academic climate of the college in such areas as the calendar, course offerings, curriculum, and other academic policies. COMMITTEE ON COMMITTEES This committee works closely with the Student Forum in monitoring club constitutions, events and actions of aU college committees and ci ubs. It is responsible forth~ selection of all student committee membership. FINANCE COMMITTEE This committee is responsible for making budget recommendations for the final approval ofthe Student Forum and the distribution of all student funds to college clubs and committees. GENERAL EDUCATION BOARD This committee discusses and implements plans in relation to the Aca- demic Affairs Council. It also reviews the General Education require- ments. (One Freshman- 2 yrs. position) HONORARY DEGREE COMMITTEE This committee is responsible for soliciting recommendations for the Trustee Committee on Honors. It makes nominations, posts awards, and recommends an Honorary Chancellor. (2 sophomores to serve for two years). PLANNING AND PRIORITIES COMMITTEE This committee is responsible for the policies in budgetary areas, and it is asked to reflect upon any requests for significant changes in College bud- gets which have been approved previously. It also is responsible for the long-range planning of the college with regard to financial implications, institutional changes and all non-academic issues. ( 1 sophomore for 2 years) STANDING OF STUDENTS COMMITTEE This committee reviews the records of students earning less than a satis- factory term average. It deals with student petitions for readmission and for exceptions or modifications in graduation requirements. It may review those College policies affecting the academic standing of students at Union. In particul, they are in charge of re-examining at regular intervals, the criteria for Dean's List standing. (I Independent student.) STUDENT AFFAIRS COUNCIL This committee reviews and recommends of policies to Student Housing, Dining Services, College Center, Health Services, Career Counseling and Development, Student Conduct, Fraternities and Sororities and the Stu- dent Forum. STUDENT CONDUCT COMMITTEE Conducts hearings and recommends disciplinary action to the Dean of Stu- dents in cases of student misconduct. · MINOR COMMITTEES CAMPUS OPERATIONS COMMITTEE Committee consists of representatives of the student body, staff, faculty-, administration and the Director of Campus Operations. This body meets to discuss all issues relevant to the operation of the college campus. The two student representatives will be chosen from the Student Grounds Com- mittee. CHET'S COMMITTEE This committee plans and schedules events that take place atChet's. CONCERT COMMITTEE This committee is responsible for deciding .upon, contracting (with the as- sistance of the Student Activities Office), and organizing campus.:.wide musical events. FILM COMMITTEE This committee plans and implements college film programs throughout the academic school year. ' LIAISON·COMMITTEE FOR ADMISSIONS A member of this committee serves as student representativeto the Admis- sions Committee. This committee, which consists of faculty and adminis- trators, reviews admissions procedures and makes recommendations to the Dean of Admissions and to the President oftheCollege. LIAISON COMMITTEE FOR ATHLETICS Members advise the Director of Athletics on all matters pertaining to Ath- letics including intercolJegiate, recreational, and instructional programs, intramurals, and dub sports. This committee participates .in discussions of general priorities,· and in bringing the concerns of the student body to the Director of Athletics. LIASON FOR CAMPUS FACILITIES The Liaison Committee for Campus Facilities shall advise the Vice Presi- dent for Campus Life on all matters of physical state of the campus and on plans for improvements. LIAISON COMMITTEE FOR THE LIBRARY This committee monitors and offers suggestions for improvements in li- brary operations and the library itself. PARKING APPEALS COMMITTEE This committee allows students to contest traffic violations in front of their peers. (4 students to serve for one year.) RESEARCH AND GRANT SUB COUNCIL This committee is composed of one student, four faculty members, and the Vice President for Academic Affairs. It reviews the College policy on grant and research distribution to faculty members and advises the Vice President on the discretionary use of those funds that are provided for these programs. [t may, at its discretion, recommend changes in the present provisions of the Research and Grant Corporation. SOCIAL COMMITTEE This committee plans and implements a wide variety of activities for stu- dents which do not come under the control of other organizations. SPEAKERS FORUM This committee is responsible for selecting and contracting, with the assis- tance of the Student Activities Office, speakers of all types for campus entertainment and information. WRITING BOARD- THE SUB COUNCIL OF WRITING This committee is responsible for identifYing the ways and means by which writing at Union can be strengthened including monitoring writing courses, recruiting additional writing courses, and designing guidelines fot newwrit- mgcourses.

SCIENCE AND HEALTH April 21, 1994, page 7 Common Chemical Found in Distilled :Spirits May Pose. Health Threat by Pameh1 Lin Concordiensis Staff amounts of ureth:ane present. temational awareness by Health Some spirits also have other con- and Welfare Canada in I985 when tributbtg sources of urethane pro- · they established regulatory levels Council of the United States with alcohol when the urethane (DISCUS)andtheAmericanAs- levels are at a minimum. sociation ofVintners are all con- At present, the wine industry Americans are 'becoming. more concerned with the foods and beverages that they consume. This concern has been extended to urethane levels in alcoholic beverages. Urethane is a natu- ral byproduct of the ferrhentation process is a known carcinogen in animals. The Food and Drug Administration is currently studying the long tenn effects of urethane on humans. Without any conclusive results, the FDA has not listed urethane as a harm ... fu}; substance, but is working with the akoh~l industry, as well as the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco . and Fireanns (ATF) to reduce future exposure and risk. Urethane may be produced during yeast fermentation in fruit juices. Another pathway in- volves fruits with high levels of the amino acid arginine. Grapes, an arginine rich fruit, produces urea as a result of fermentation; this urea reacts with ethyl alco- hol and this forms urethane. Wine is not the only beverage with significant levels of ure- thane. Fruit brandies and li- queurs also have considerable duction. Heat increases urethane production, and since sherries are baked and bourbon is distilled at high temperatures, urethane pro- duction may increase. Benjamin J. Canas, from the FDA's food chemistry and technology divi- sion, indicates that urethane lev- els not only differ by alcdholic beverage, but by brand and even from bottle to bottle. Urethane levels and concern for their effects were brought to in- Heali~g Sick Cells by Farhana Khan·· Contributing Writer A new drug has been devel- oped to successfully treat sickle- cell anemia, the devastating dis- ease that affects mainly African Americans and Africans in the rest of the world. Tlie drug, called arginine butyrate, works like a spark plug for a dormant gene. fu sickle cell disease, blood cells tum a sickly, sickle shape and block up vessels, causing patients to experience painful, debilitating attacks. People who have a higher amount of fetal hemoglobin (the oxygen-carrying protein of red blood cells), however, seem to suffer less from the disease. In fact, one study found that some people have the blood defect without symptoms if their bod- ies makes fetal hemoglobin. That'~. why this drug rnt;ty wor~_: It kick-starts the so-called fetal gene that causes folks to produce more fetal hemoglobin. fu a recent study, six patients with either sickle cell. anemia or a similar form of anemia were treated with the ATS. The drug was administered for 2-3 weeks. The amount of fetal hemoglobin produced in these patients in- creased by amounts ranging from 6 to 45 percent. Arginine Butane, a naturally occurring food addi- tive, seemed to carry no side ef- fects. The focus of research now con- cerns preventing the pain and suf- ·fering of patients with this dis- ease. However, funds are very limited and doctors can treat only a few patients at a time. They must also purchase the raw mate- rials and manufacture the drug themselves. ATTENTION BIOLOGY STUDENTS A MEETING FOR ALL\BIO STUDENTS\ WILL TAKE PLACE ON APRIL 26,1994 COLLEGE CENTER 4:30 PM -5:30 PM Amino Acids -~ ... -urea Sugars --t•.,...EihyJ Alcohol tJrethttne EthyJ Atoohol for distilled spirits and wine. The FDA and the ATF began record- ing urethane levels in 1987. Fruit brandies had the highest level of urethane, 1.200 parts per billion, followed by sake, 300 ppb, and then bourbon, 150 ppb. Since 1987 many advances have been made by the alcohol in- dustry to lower urethane levels by altering the distillation and manu- facturing process. The Wine In- sti~ute and the Distilled Spirits . cerned with monitoring and changing the amount of urethane present in alcohol. Among the recommendations, grape growers have been .encouraged to mini- mize fertilizer usage, thus lower- ing the arginine levels in ~:,rrapes. Another attempt has been made to use a French brand of yeast for fennentation because it is known to produce wine with lower ure- thane levels. · Another strategy involves fortifying desert wines monitors the 20 major U.S. winbmits the report told the FDA. Using these results, urethane lev- els; the FDA has recommended that the wine industry continue monitoring their distilleries and processes for ways to reduce ure- thane levels. Bourbon distillers have an additional concern that urethane may continue to fonn as spirits are allowed to age. Both wine and distilled spirits produc- ers are monitoring their proce- dures, as well as bottled products, for improvements including the use of an enzyme that reduces urea levels . The FDA is presently encoure among the countries that indicate some progress in controlling their urethane .levels. A Swiss scien- tist at the Swiss Federal Research Institute has found that using fmit pits in the manufacture of fmit brandies can cause higher levels of urethane. With all this research and work by different organizations and in- dustries, the effects of urethane are still not v~rified. Reviving the tradition of the Dutchmen's Dinner Friday, April22, 1994, 5:30PM Enjoy a four course gourmet dinner served to you in the beautiful Everest Lounge. Choose from: Tortellini Prima Vera I Scallops Provencale or Chicken Normandy with all the delicious accompaniments All for only two meal punches or $14.95 Limited seating is by reservation only. Sign-up noW or call Dining Services at x6050 for more details. Reservation deadline. is Thursday, April 21, 1994, 5:00 PM.

April 21, 1994, page 8 In editorials : Who cares about the price of tea in China? One of the objectives ofthe student newspaper over the past year has been to improve our coverage of student activ- ism and achievement. While we have admittedly not cov- ered every campus event which involves students, we hope that the college community has learned more about what students really care about through the newspaper. We have tried to concentrate our news coverage, features coverage, and editorials on issues which are not only inter- esting to students, but also provide a narrative of the student body. From a historical standpoint, we believe that future generations of Union College students, administrators, fac- ulty, and staff will find reading the newspaper as interesting as opening a time capsule. During this past year we have received a lot of feedback on the content ·of the editorials appearing on this page. In previous years, the newspaper tended to not take strong stances on campus issues. In fact, many editorials focused on world or national events. We believethatstudentst opin- ions on international events should be presented in the news- paper, but not on the editorial page.' The World News page was created so that members of the college community can addressthese issues. Many people falsely believe that the purpose of the edito- rial is for editors to vent their anger at various campus lead- ers, administrators, or organizations. The editorial is intended to summarize the opinions of some students on important issues. The administration, professors, and students should read editorials seriously, because we present a coherent, unified, student opinion each we.ek. In addition, the edito- rial is also presented \for the record\ so that future readers know how Union students stand on a gamut of issues. Additionally, editorials should stimulate responses, be- cause the lines of communication on important issues should be open. Whether or not these opinions are agreed upon by everybody on tbis campus is irrelevant. Students don't care about 'The Price of Tea in China.' What they do care about are the policies of the Student Forum, and the administra- tion of Union College. OP-ED Letters to the Editor: Students: Profe:ssors Need To Do A Better Job At Policing In an attempt to encourage dialogue regarding academic honesty among members of the college community, the Academic Affairs Subcouncil on Academic Honesty .and Practice has arranged a series of letters to be published in The Concordiensis. These letters will present differing perspectives on the issue of academic honesty. Included in this series will be two letters addressed to the faculty and two letters addressed to stu- dents, with the views coming from both \sides.\ In addition, we hope to include a letter from the college's lawyer commenting on a recent case that was handled in court. It is our hope that these letters will offer a variety of vieWpoints to which students and faculty can respond. Although these letters will appear in consecutive issues of Tht! Con- cordiensis, they were composed concurrently and are not meant to serve as a re- sponse tG one another. We hope these resp<>nses will come from you. This is the third letter in the series. Dear Editor, On behalf of the student repre- sentatives on the Academic M- fairs Council and the Sub-Coun- cil on Academic Honesty and Practice we are writing to ask our Professors at Union to help us stop the cheating that is currently plaguing our College. Through surveys that we sent out to all Union faculty members, conver- sations we have had with other students, and experiences we have had in our own classes, we have come to realize how truly wide- spread the problem of dishonesty is on our campus. We also feel that while some faculty attempt to cur- tail dishonest behavior in their classes, other make no effort to curb dishonesty and in many cases run their classes in ways that ac- tually promote cheating. It is time for our Professors to start getting serious about aca- demic dishonesty. Currently only a handful of the more than 150 faculty members at Union report that they take serious measures in their classrooms to prevent cheat- ing and other fonns of dishonest academic behavior. Some Profes- sors take it so seriously that they collect student's journal articles with their papers and read them to check for proper citing and as- sure that students do not plagia- rize. Although this may be asking too much of the entire faculty as it is rather time consuming, it is efforts like these that will deter students from dishonest practices. It is time for our Faculty to start taking the problem more seri.- ously. Time after time we see cheating in our classes and no one seems to care. On occasion we have brought this to our Professor's attention and the atti- tude that prevails is, ''Well, what am I supposed to do?\ How about actively proctoring exams? Your presence in the classroom and obvious surveillance of students can help reduce instances of cheating. Too often we see fac- ulty sitting in the front of the classroom grading papers or do- ing other work while students are glancing at other students' exams. Another problem we see at Union is that a good number of faculty reuse exams year after year. This is unfair because not all students have equal access to past test and therefore do not score as well as tb.ose who have such access. By changing tests and test questions from year to year faculty would encourage stu- dents to study rather than search for the easy way out-finding an old copy of the exam and study- ing only what that student now knows will appear on the test. What we are asking is that our Professors take this problem as. seriously as we are. When cheat- ing occurs, the entire institution is ~ffected. Doing nothing to solve the problem only serves to nurture it. Cmrently we are for- mulating a new plan to deal with instances of dishonest academic behavior. However, because so few faculty currently bring cases forward, we fear this may be a wasted effort. If we receive the help of the entire Union commu- nity, including ourprofessors, we feel that we can, together, spread the word that Union College does not tolerate dishonest academic behavior. This means that our professors must play a bigger role in the process. If we a1I take an active struid against cheating we can, in the near future, rid our in- stitution of it completely. We would like to take this mo- ment to thank those professors who are addressing the issue of academic honesty in their classes. To those who are not, we are ask- ing that you take this issue more seriously. We are constantly hear- ing stories of professors who leave classrooms during exams, who five the same exam year af- ter year, and who do not take se- rious action when students report them to cheating that occurs dur- ing their exams and quizzes. If this trend continues, Union Col- lege will suffer dramatically. On behalf of all concerned stu- dents we are asking you to take a stand against cheating and aca- demic dishonesty. Infonn your classes that cheating is not toler- ated at Union and explain to them the college's policy on academiC dishonesty and the consequences of cheating. Observe your classes more closely during exams, stop reusing old exams, and take more serious measures to discourage dishonest academic behavior. Without active participation from our faculty we will not be able to accomplish our goal of fonning a more \honest\ Union. Respectfully submitted, Student Representatives of the Academic Affairs Council

April 21, 1994, page 8 In editorials : Who cares about the price of tea in China? One of the objectives of the student newspaper over the past year has been to improve our coverage of student activ- ism and achievement. While we have admittedly not cov- ered every campus event which involves students, we hope that the college community has learned more about what students really care about through the newspaper. I We have tried to concentrate our news coverage, features : I coverage, and editorials on issues which are not only inter- : esting to students, but also provide a narrative of the student : body. From a historical standpoint, we believe that future j generations of Union College students, administrators, fac- i 1 ulty, and staff will find reading the newspaper as interesting , as opening a time capsule. During this past year we have received a lot of feedback on the content of the editorials appearing on this page. In previous years, the newspaper tended to not take strong stances on campus issues. In fact, many editorials focused on world or national events. We believe that students' opin- ions on international events should be presented in the news- paper, but not on the editorial page. The World News page was created so that members of the college community can address these issues. Many people falsely believe that the purpose of the edito- rial is for editors to vent their anger at various campus lead- ers, administrators, or organizations. The editorial is intended to summarize the opinions of some students on important issues. The administration, professors, and students should read editorials seriously, because we present a coherent, unified, student opinion each week In addition, the edito- rial is also presented \for the record\ so that future readers know how Union students stand on a gamut of issues. Additionally, editorials should stimulate responses, be- cause the lines of communication on important issues should be open. Whether or not these opinions are agreed upon by everybody on tbis campus is irrelevant. Students don't care about 'The Price of Tea in China.' What they do care about are the policies of the Student Forum, and the administra- tion of Union College. OP-ED Letters to the Editor: Students: Professors Need To Do A Better Job At Policing In an attempt to encourage dialogue regarding academic honesty among members of the college community, the Academic Affairs Subcouncil on Academic Honesty and Practice has arranged a series of letters to be published in The Concordiensis. These letters will present differing perspectives on the issue of academic honesty. Included in this series will be two letters addressed to the faculty and two letters addressed to stu- dents, with the views coming from both \sides.\ In addition, we hope to include a letter from the college's lawyer commenting on a recent case that was handled in court. It is our hope that these letters will offer a variety of viewpoints to which students and faculty can respond. Although these letters will appear in consecutive issues of The Con- cordiensis, they were composed concurrently and are not meant to serve as a re- sponse to one another. We hope these responses will come from you. This is the third letter in the series. Dear Editor, On behalf of the student repre- sentatives on the Academic Af- fairs Council and the Sub-Coun- cil on Academic Honesty and Practice we are writing to ask our Professors at Union to help us stop the cheating that is currently plaguing our College. Through surveys that we sent out to all Union faculty members, conver- sations we have had with other students, and experiences we have had in our own classes, we have come to realize how truly wide- spread the problem of dishonesty is on our campus. We also feel that while some faculty attempt to cur- tail dishonest behavior in their classes, other make no effort to curb dishonesty and in many cases run their classes in ways that ac- tually promote cheating. It is time for our Professors to start getting serious about aca- demic dishonesty. Currently only a handful of the more than 150 faculty members at Union report that they take serious measures in their classrooms to prevent cheat- ing and other fonns of dishonest academic behavior. Some Profes- sors take it so seriously that they collect student's journal articles with their papers and read them to check for proper citing and as- sure that students do not plagia- rize. Although this may be asking too much of the entire faculty as it is rather time consuming, it is efforts like these that will deter students from dishonest practices. It is time for our Faculty to start taking the problem more seri- ously. Time after time we see cheating in our classes and no one seems to care. On occasion we have brought this to our Professor's attention and the atti- tude that prevails is, \Well what am I supposed to do?\ How about actively proctoring exams? Your presence in the classroom and obvious surveillance of students can help reduce instances of cheating. Too often we see fac- ulty sitting in the front of the classroom grading papers or do- ing other work while students are glancing at other students' exams. Another problem we see at Union is that a good number of faculty reuse exams year after year. This is unfair because not all students have equal access to past test and therefore do not score as well as those who have such access. By changing tests and test questions from year to year faculty would encourage stu- dents to study rather than search for the easy way out-finding an old copy of the exam and study- ing only what that student now knows will appear on the test. What we are asking is that our Professors take this problem as seriously as we are. When cheat- ing occurs, the entire institution is affected. Doing nothing to solve the problem only serves to nurture it. Currently we are for- mulating a new plan to deal with instances of dishonest academic behavior. However, because so few faculty currently bring cases forward, we fear this may be a wasted effort. If we receive the help ofthe entire Union commu- nity, including our professors, we feel that we can, together, spread the word that Union College does not tolerate dishonest academic behavior. This means that our professors must play a bigger role in the process. If we all take an active stand against cheating we can, in the near future, rid our in- stitution ofit completely. We would like to take this mo- ment to thank those professors who are addressing the issue of academic honesty in their classes. To those who are not, we are ask- ing that you take this issue more seriously. We are constantly hear- ing stories of professors who leave classrooms during exams. who five the same exam year af- ter year. and who do not take se- rious action when students report them to cheating that occurs dur- ing their exams and quizzes. lf this trend continues, Union Col- lege will suffer dramatically. On behalf of all concerned stu- dents we are asking you to take a stand against cheating and aca- demic dishonesty. Inform your classes that cheating is not toler- ated at Union and explain to them the college's policy on academic dishonesty and the consequences of cheating. Observe your classes more closely during exains, stop reusing old exams, and take more serious measures to discourage dishonest academic behavior. Without active participation from our faculty we will not be able to accomplish our goal of fanning a more \honest\ Union. Respectfully submitted, Student Representatives of the Academic Affairs Council

LETTERS April 21, 1994, page 9 Just Return The, Rental Videos To The Booth To the students of Union, When I start~d up the Union College Video Store last year, I had two basic ideas in mind: one. was to offer the students, faculty and staff a ql}ality selection of videos, and the second was to give it to them for free. Once instituted, with ;generous donations from the Dean's office, Residence life, and Student Ac- tivities, the store took off. By our third month we had one thousand members, and things seemed to be moving right along. By the end of last year, however, we were missing twenty six videos. It is nornial and acceptable for a young business to wade through the rough water in search of a· caltner pool, so, undaunted, we sallied forth, bought sixty more vjdeos, and figured. that it was bad luck. With such .a lousy computer system it was difficult to keep track of all of the trans- actions, and I thought that much of the problem was ours, any- way. Fine, no hard feelings. {Jpon returning this year,. we upgraded the computer system and purcha~ed over a hundred new movies. Now, moving into May, we are missing sixty two of them. Once again, I take much of the blame. I don't have the time to go through the system every day to see what's in and what's out. I like movies, but give me a break. I also haven't been tough at all about late fees. Many of you have bumped into me in bar rooms, apologized profusely, and asked ifyou could get your late fee waived. I haven't said no once, even for movies that have been months late. The whole idea behind this store was to save stu- dents the cash that they blow at Blockbuster. I wanted people to waltz in, peruse the list, grab a flick and take off. I didn't want to buy videos just to see them disappear forever into someone's room. For those of you out there who have kept movies, in a way I can't . blame you. It's not even a video \store\, it's more of a cheesy little video booth. Most of the movies stink, there's only the first ;half.of Sca,rface (which is such a buzzkill), and we don't get the new flicks as fast as Blockbuster~ Of course we don't. I buy all ofthemoviesused,. to stay within my limited budget. I realize that you don't take the store seriously, because it doesn't compare to a real store in many ways. I asked for a room to make a store• any room- and I got a booth. A low budget little booth. Well, now I put it to you. You can have a booth filled with trash movies, and eventually the clos- ing of the store for good, or you can stop stealing videos and I can buy mere good movies. But now, honestly, the gloves are off. I wanted this to be free out of re- spect for all of you, but if you don't have the respect to return movi~s when you're supposed to, then I']] have no problem charg- ing you for the movie. Student Activities has alerted the Dean's Office, and I have their commit- ment that stQlen videos will be treated like any other stolen col- lege property. It doesn't have to go any far- ther than this. I have no desire to penalize anyone, and I hope that this letter just adequately motivates people to return the movies that they still have. There is a slot on the side of the booth where you can drop the cassettes off. You return it now, and I'll cut the charge in half, otherwise, you will pay the full late fee. Videos must be returned no later then Tuesday the 25th of April. Just bring the damn things back so no one gets an ugly bill at the end of the year. No one wants that hassle, and God knows I have no desire to be the bad guy, hut this time I will if I have to. Sincerely yours, Thor Benarder ·women·'s Athletics Deserve The Same Coverage In The Newspaper }>eople: Think aefore You Speak Dear Editor, To the Editor: I am writing this letter because of an experience I had this past weekend that I feel cannot be ig- nored. I was outat a party drink- First, I would like to tell you what it felt like to hear him say this ... it hurt like hell. It was a com- plete slap in the face and it took all I had not to cry. I was com- pant prejudices of our society as much as possible. I had many different types of friends grow- ing up and never closed my mind to anyone. I also never experi- I don't think it is fair that ow school newspaper does not rec- ognize some of the women's sports teams. For example, I bet more thanhalfofUnion does not even knew that we have a women's softball team. There has not been one article about soft- ball. When there are articles on women's sports, they are almost always shorter than tlie articles about the men's sports. Female athletes work just as hard as male athletes do in prac- tice, games and tournaments. In- · tercollegiate sports are a big commitment, and both male and · female athletes make the same ing casually with ,_.,-,-~--f-s..,...h.-e-h_a_d_s_a ....... l·-d-s_h_e_w...,_..a·-.s-.. friends engaging in enced anyone clos- ing their mind to me. Perhaps I was lucky commitment. I find it vecy un- fair that the female athletes of Union do not get as much rec- ognition as the male athletes. conversation. Most of . the people I was con- versing with were considerably more in- toxicated than I was. In particular was one pers·on who was a Jew, I would have Sincerely, Female Athlete · said I hated her.\ - Union Student \ ' ' . .. IQ • All·Letters MuST be Submitted onHD Disk No Exceptions! . ·speaking directly to my friend and me. The conversation began by discussing my friend's heritage be- cause of her last name. When she asked jokingly how he would have responded if she was not what she was, he matter of factly answered that \if she had said she was a Jew I would have said I hated her.\ When I reacted to this blatantly anti-semitic statement he told me if I was Irish I would understand! What exactly that meant I am still unsure of, but I do know how much this statement hurt me. Ediloria&,Letten&D~cbimers Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP-ED Page and must be received by 5 p.m. the Tuesday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. Final Decisions · concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed, although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and no one member in particular. Any opinion columns reflect the opinions of the writers, and not necessarily the opinions ofthe Editorial Board. .. Advertisements appearing in The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. The Concordiensis is published Eight Thursdays a tenn by the students of Union College. It is funded in part by the Stud!,'!ntActivities Fee. The Concordiensis, copyright 1993; all rights reserved. Box 2577, College Center, Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308. Telephone (518) 388-6155. The Concordiensisis published by The Leader Herald, 8-10 East Fulton Street, Gloversville, New York 12078. The Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP), National Student News Service, King Syndicates. SUBMISSIONS : All submissions are due the Tuesday before publication at 4 p.m. if they are submitted on either Macintosh Microsoft Word disks, or MS-Dos Microsoft Word or Wordperfect disks. Otherwise all submissions are due Monday by 4 p.m. in the drop·box outside of The Conr;ordiensis office on the third floor of the College ·Center. pletely dumbfounded and prayed that I had heard him wrong. By the look on my friend's face I knew I had not. He attempted to apologize half heartedly after- wards, but it was futile. A state- ment like that is irretractable. Second, I want to explain why my reaction was what it was. I grew up in New York City my en- tire life. My parents raised me be- lieving· that it was wrong to hate someone for the color of their skin, their religious preference or sexual orientation, and to avoid the ram- pared . in that respect or maybe I just associ- ated with people who were as open minded as myself. Regard- less, I was not pre- I have talked about anti- . semitism, racism and all preju- dices with my friends and fam- ily all my life. I have studied them and discussed them in classes at Union. I guess that is why I was so hurt and amazed when one of my peers who is supposed to be highly educated could possibly say such an igno- rant and provincial statement, even if it was injest. Rachel Asche

LETTERS April 21, 1994, page 9 Just Return The Rental Videos To The Booth To the students of Union, When I started up the Union College Video Store last year, I had two basic ideas in mind: one was to offer the students, faculty and staff a quality selection of videos, and the second was to give it to them for free. Once instituted, with generous donations from the Dean's office, Residence life, and Student Ac- tivities, the store took off. By our third month we had one thousand members, and things seemed to be moving right along. By the end of last year, however, we were missing twenty six videos. It is normal and acceptable for a young business to wade through the rough water in search of a calmer pool, so, undaunted, we sallied forth, bought sixty more videos, and figured that it was bad luck. With such a lousy . computer system it was difficult to keep track of all of the trans- actions, and I thought that much of the problem was ours, any- way. Fine, no hard feelings. U:pon returning this year, we upgraded the computer system and purchased over a hundred new movies. Now, moving into May, we are missing sixty two of them. Once again, Itake much of the blame. I don't have the time to go through the system every day to see what's in and what's out. I like movies, but give me a break. I also haven't been tough at all about late fees. Many of you have bumped into me in bar rooms, apologized profusely, and asked if you could get your late fee waived. I haven't said no once, even for movies that have been months late. The whole idea behind this store was to save stu- dents the cash that they blow at Blockbuster. I Wanted people to waltz in, peruse the list, grab a flick and take off. I didn't want to blly videos just to see them disappear forever into someone's room. For those of you out there who have kept movies, in a way I can't blame you. It's not even a video \store\, it's more of a cheesy little video booth. Most of the movies stink, there's only the first half of Scarface (which is such a buzzkill), and we don't get the new flicks as fast as Blockbuster. Of course we don't. I buy all of the movies used, to stay within my limited budget. I realize that you don't take the store seriously, because it doesn't compare to a real store in many ways. I asked for a room to make a store- any room- and I got a booth. A low budget little booth. Well, now I put it to you. You can have a booth filled with trash movies, and eventually the clos- ing of the store for good, or you can stop stealing videos and I can buy more good movies. But now, honestly, the gloves are off. I wanted this to be free out of re- spect for all of you, but if you don't have the respect to return movies when you're supposed to, then I'll have no problem charg- ing you for the movie. Student Activities has alerted the Dean's Office, and I have their commit- ment that stolen videos will be treated like any other stolen col- lege property. It doesn't have to go any far- ther than this. I have no desire to penalize anyone, and I hope that this letter just adequately motivates people to return the movies that they still have. There is a slot on the side of the booth where you can drop the cassettes off. You return it now. and I'll cut the charge in haif. otherwise, you will pay the full late fee. Videos must be returned no later then Tuesday the 25t]; of April. Just bring the damn things back so no one gets an ugly bill at the end of the year. No one wants that hassle, and God knows I have no desire to be the bad guy, but this time I will if I have to. Sincerely yours, Thor Benarder Women's Athletics Deserve The Same Coverage In The Newspaper People: Think Before You Speak Dear Editor, To the Editor: I am writing this letter because of an experience I had this past weekend that I feel cannot be ig- nored. I was out at a party drink- First, I would like to tell you what it felt like to hear him say this .. .it hurt like hell. It was a com- plete slap in the face and it took all I had not to cry. I was com- pant prejudices of our society as much as possible. I had many different types of friends grow- ing up and never closed my mind to anyone. I also never experi- I don't think it is fair that our school newspaper does not rec- ognize some of the women's sports teams. For example, I bet more than half of Union does not even know that we have a women's softball team. There has not been one article about soft- ball. When there are articles on women's sports, they are almost always shorter than the articles about the men's sports. Female athletes work just as . hard as male athletes do in prac- tice, games and tournaments. In- tercollegiate sports are a big commitment, and both male and female athletes make the same commitment. I find it very un- fair that the female athletes of Union do not get as much rec- ognition as the male athletes. ing casually with ...--------------------. friends engaging in \If she had said she was enced anyone clos- ing their mind to me. Perhaps I was lucky Sincerely, Female Athlete conversation. Most of the people I was con- versing with were considerably more in- toxicated than I was. In particular was one person who was a Jew, I would have said I hated her.\ - Union Student ' All Letters MuST be Submitted on HD Disk No Exceptions! speaking directly to my friend and me. The conversation began by discussing my friend's heritage be- cause of her last name. When she asked jokingly how he would have responded if she was not what she was, he matter of factly answered that \if she had said she was a Jew I would have said I hated her.\ When I reacted to this blatantly anti-semitic statement he told me if I was Irish I would understand! What exactly that meant I am still unsure of, but I do know how much this statement hurt me. Editorials, Letters & Disclaimers Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP-ED Page and must be received by 5 p.m. the Tuesday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. Final Decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed. although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper. if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a mqjority ofthc Editorial Board, and no one member in particular. Any opinion columns reflect the opinions of the writers, and not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial Board. Advertisements appearing in The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. The Concordiensis is published Eight Thursdays a tenn by the students of Union College. It is funded in part by the Student Activities Fee. The Concordiensis, copyright I 993, all rights reserved. Box 2577, College Center, Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308. Telephone (518) 388-6155. The Concordiensis is published by The Leader Herald, 8-10 East Fulton Street, Gloversville, New York 12078. The Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP), National Student News Service. King Syndicates. SUBMISSIONS: All submissions arc due the Tuesday before publication at 4 p.m. if they are submitted on either Macintosh Microsoft Word disks, or MS-Dos Microsoft Word or Wordperfect disks. Otherwise all submissions are due Monday by 4 p.m. in the drop box outside of The Concordiensis office en the third floor of the College Center. pletely dumbfounded and prayed that I had heard him wrong. By the look on my friend's face I knew I had not. He attempted to apologize half heartedly after- wards, but it was futile. A state- ment like that is irretractable. Second, I want to explain why my reaction was what it was. I grew up in New York City my en- tire life. My parents raised me be- lieving that it was wrong to hate someone for the color of their skin, their religious preference or sexual orientation, and to avoid the ram- pared. in that respect or maybe I just associ- ated with people who were as open minded as myself. Regard- less, I was not pre- I have talked about anti- semitism, racism and ali preju- dices with my friends and fam- ily ail my life. I have studied them and discussed them in classes at Union. I guess that is why I was so hurt and amazed when one of my peers who is supposed to be highly educated could possibly say such an igno- rant and provincial statement, even if it was in jest. Rachel Asche

April 21, 1994, Page lO ARTS- & ENTERTAINMENT Saturday Night Live Make .. up Artist, John CagUone: Transformation of U ion College in a Blink · On a rainy Wednesday afternoon. the Perfonning Arts Studio became a room oftransfdnnation. In a magically non-violent way, a wand appeared on a young woman's face and Tony Viva, in the course of twenty minutes, aged her forty years. How is this all possible you ask? 11uough stage make-up of master, John Caglione. Mr. Caglione is the main make-up artist for Satur- day Night Live (the nose Mr. Viva is wearing in the pic- ture was used by Rob Schnieder in a skit). He has won an Oscar for his make-up work on the movie \Dick Tracy\ and has worked on other films including \Chaplin\ and \For the Boys,\ and on the TV show \Star Trek.\ Mr. Caglione grew up in Troy, New York and man-- aged to excel in the competitive entertainment business via his combination of enthusiasm and raw talent. He was an apprentice in a TV studio and worked with Bob Kelly, who was scheduled to come to Union last term. Top Ten Singles of the Week 1. MARIAH CAREY - \Without You\ 2. ACE OF BASE. -\The Sign\ 3. BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN -- \Streets of Philadelphia\ 4. ALL-4-0NE- \So Much in Love\ 5. COUNTING CROWS-- \Mr. Jones\ • 6. BIGMOUNTAIN-- \BabyiLove • Your Way\ . _., 7. RICHARD MARX-- '~Now & Forever\ 8. CRASH TEST DUMMIES - \Mmm Mmm .Mmm Mmm'\ 9. PRINCE- \The Most Beautiful Girl'; 10. MELISSA ETHERIDGE \Come to My Window\ Saturday, April23 At 2 -and 4:15 PM Cinema Paradiso, winner of the 1989 Golden Globe Award for.Best Foreign Film will be shown, in SS0·16. Admission is FREE! Chet' s Corner Wed. April 20 at 9:30PM \YOUR MAMA\ Support your local \Jugs-Band\ featur- . mg .... Sara Stoner Alii Hirschman & Tara Minardi Thurs.April 21 at 9:30 PM DRAMA TIC READINGS (with Lori Mlckenberg & Friends) Coming Soon to a pub near you .... \Putting on the Hits\ Union College's own Lip. Sync Contest First Prize $75 !! !! Ap·ril 28th at 10 PM Sign up in student activities \STUDS;' May4 Don't f()tget T.G.I.f. (Happy H~ur) is ev~ry Friday from 4:30-6:30 Free Food!

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT April21, 1994, Page 11 The Real Picture: Brains can by Larry Pa$ka Concotdiensis Staff consequences; that is, the crimes he commits in the game actually happen in rea] life. then~ must be someone out there who finds this man coming out of a television exciting. that are incomprehensible. Flynn is obviously trying to show the world what be thinks is talent; he scatters pointless montages throughout the film, most annoyingly at the begin- ning, where a shot ofa dog run- ning down a lane is mixed with done\ and \we've got to find the murderer.\ With dialogue like this, shouldn't the writers be up for an Oscar next March? \BRAINSCAN.\ Starring Ed- ward Furlong, Frank LangeHa. Directed by John Flynn. Rated R, Triumph Releasing. RATING: \' (out of four) Sixteen-year-old Edward Fur- long (who shot to stardom in ''Ter- minator 2\) is the star of this vir- tual disaster, which co-stars usu- ally-terrific Langella (\Dave\) as a boring police detective. Just in reading the last sen- tence, one might find this plot interesting. Actually, any decent filmmaker could create a poten- tially .minor hit film from .such a As the troubled youth discov- ers what he has done~ he also real- izes he cannot back out of the game until he eliminates all wit- nesses to the crime. There is no Complicating things for Fur- long is the next door love inter- est; she throws a party during his murder sprees. How romantic! The climactic showdown in the girl's bedroom must take the prize for lamest scene of the year. storyline. But leave it to an inde- pendent company to completely de- . stroy any hope of salvation, starting with the casting of the whiny, child- ish Furlong. Further mutilat- ing any cleverness to the film is the introduction of the a boy crawling from a car accident. This feeble attempt at art is an embarrassment to the director, as is the end credit sequence, when the viewer is teased by staring at a picture of the dog for nearly a minute with nothing happening. Does this sort of stupid- ity really amuse the Furlong is a boy who is practi- cally in control of the house, as his father is always away on trips. He lives in the attic, with enough electronic gadgets (including a widescreen TV) in his room to envy any teenager. His passion is for interactive video games, and a friend persuades him to order a new one, Brainscan, which com- bines realistic effects with mod- em technology to simulate com- mitting violent acts in the mind. However, he takes on the game's challenge without realizing the game's living entity, the Trick- ster. His character wants to be th~ next Pinhead, but you need to be in a cult film to earn cult status as an evil idol. The Trick- ster is a dumb and unrefreshing take on such characters as Freddy Kruger and Jason Vorhees .. But sense here: what witnesses? He committed murder in a vacant, house. filmmakers? Judging from viewer rt;?sponse, audiences won't be impressed. \Brainscan\ registers a solid zero, and don't expect it to be the next horror hit, either. It is as bad as the off-screen romance with his tutor that Furlong is being hyped about. Quoting The Trickster, when Furlong states that nothing makes sense: \it's notsupposed to make sense. It's about death, death, dea~h.\ It's as ifthis line was inserted to justify the film maker's reason for churning out this garbage. Sony, but no direc- tor can get away with nothing if it doesn't make sense. The concept of an \interactive film,\ in which the movie be- comes the game for the viewer, is unexciting, featuring sloppy cam- era work and fast-moving images Langella co-stars as the cop who's searching for the killer. His lines consist mainly of such classic statements as \go home now and get your homework Local Arts and Entertainment Calendar THURSDAY. APRIL 21 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: \Carlito's Way,\ 7:30 & 10 pm, $2. DEAR LIAR: l11e play adapted from the correspondence ofGeorge Bernard Shaw and Mrs. Patrick Campbell by Jerome Kilty. Steamer l'{p. 10 Theatre, !tic., 500 Westenr Ave, Alba'ny~ s·pm, $7/students, $9/adu1ts~438'-5503 .. POET JORIE GRAHAM: Author of poetry including, Erosion, The End of Beauty, Region of Unlikeness, The Best American Poetry. Recital Hall, Per- fanning Arts Center, University at Albany's uptown campus, 8 pm. 442-5620. FRIDAY, APRIL 22 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: \Mrs. Doubtfire,\ 8 & 10 p.m., $2. DEAR LIAR: See Thursday, April 21. A HATFUL OF RAIN: Michael V. Gazzo's drama about a family caught in the web of drug addiction and deceit. Spa Little Theater, Saratoga Spa State Parle 8:15pm, $14-$12. 587-4427. LORRIE MORGAN: Country singer performing at Proctor's Theatre, Schenectady, 8 pm. $23.50;382-1083. \SWING SPRING\: Fonner Manhattan Transfer vocalist, Laurel Masse, featured. Troy Savings Bank Music Hall, 8 pm, $12.273- 0038. SATURDAY, APRIL 23 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: See Friday, April22. DEAR LIAR: See Thursday, April 21. A HATFUL OF RAIN: See Friday, April 22. \THE LADIES LOCKER ROOM\: By playwright Sarah Blacher Cohen, directed by Frieda Scott Giles at Lewis A. Swyer Theatre, The Empire Center at the Egg, Albany, 8 pm, $15, $10/students. 473-1845. THE OCTAVO SlNGERS: Present Vivaldi's and Poulenc' s Glori as, also perfonning works by Savoy, Purcell, Handel & Humperdinck. Memorial Chapel, Union College, Schen~ctady. 8 pm, $9, $7/students. 381-9444. SUNDAY. APRIL 24 COLL~GE CENTER AUD. FILM: See Friday, April22. DEAR LIAR: 2 pm, See Thursday, April 21. \THE LADIES LOCKER ROOM\: 2:~0 pm, see Saturday, April 23. MONDAY, APRIL 25 COLLEGE. CENTER AUD. FILM: See Friday, April22. INDIGO GIRLS: With special guests, at Union College Achilles Hall, -Schenectady, 8 pm, $15. 388-6118:• TUESDAY, APRIL 26 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: \Airplane 8 & 10 pm, $1. WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27 THE REAL LIVE BRADY BUNCH: In their long-awaited national tour, at Proctor's Theatre, Schenectady, 8 pm, $22.50 -$28.50.346-6204. THURSDAY, APRIL 28 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILMt \Dazed and Confused,\ 8 & I 0 pm, $2. FRIDAY, APRIL 29 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: \Philadelphia 7:30 & 10 p, $2. A HATFUL OF RAIN: See Friday, April22. PIANIST LOUIS LORTIE: All-Beethoven program at the Troy Savings Bank Music Hall, Second and State Streets, Troy, 8 pm, $17 $20, students half price. 235-3000. CONTINUOUS EXHIBITS: FEBRUARY 5- MAY 15 WORKING WITH TRADITION: The Academic Artist: Paintings, sculptures, lithographs and more by SUNY faculty artists. New York State Museum in Albany. 474-1201. JANUARY 22 - JULY 8 . SELLING THE GOODS: Products and advertising in Albany. Albany Institute of History & Art, Albany. 464-4478. THROUGH JUNE f9 PONDER THESE THINGS: By Invema Lockpez, New York State Museum, Albany, 474-5842. · THROUGH JULY 24 FROM THE COLLECTIONS: 1994: Selections from the holdings of the New York Museum, New York State Museum, Albany. 474-5842. Compiled by Suzanne Rohinson/Concordiensis Staff

April 21, 1994, page 12 CALENDAR Calendar of Events at Union : 4121 - 4/27 Thursday, April21 6:00p 7:30p SHPE Humanities 113 - Seminar Room 6:00p 8:00p 6:30p 11 :OOp 7:00p lO:OOp 7:30p 12:00a 8:00p lO:OOp 8:00p 12:00a Friday, April22 4:00p 9:00p 5:30p 8:00p 5:30p IO:OOp 6:00p 8:00p 6:30p 9:30p 7:00p II :OOp 8:00p IO:OOp 8:00p 12:00a SF Meeting Mountebanks Rehearsal for Musical College Center 409 Fero 102 Bone Marrow Benefit- Concert Memorial Chapel Sponsored by Phi Epsilon Movie \Carlito's Way\ at 7:30 and lO PM Directing Class Chet's Committee Chet's Dutchmen Dinner Mountebanks Rehearsal for Musical Latino Heritage: Month Committee Intervarsity Christian Fellowship Philomathen Society Meeting Concert- Mic Fambro Sponsor; Campus Protestant Minestry Movie: 1 'Mrs. Coubtfire\ at 8 and 10 PM Social Sciences 016 College Center 302 Chet's Chet's Hale House Dining Room Social Sciences 016 Fero 102 College Center 409 Hale House Everest Lounge Old Chapel College Center Auditorium 9:00p 12:00a Student Activities Coffeehouse Fero 102 Saturday, April23 8:00a S:OOp 9:30a 4:00p 5:00p IO:OOp 5:30p 12:00a 8:00p 12:00a 9:00p 12:00a Sunday, April24 8:00a 5:00p 6:30p II :OOp 7:00p 9:30p 8:00p 12:00a Monday, Apri125 6:30p 11 :OOp 7:00p 8:00p 7:00p 8:30p 7:00p 9:00p 7:30p 9:00p Mountebanks Rehearsal Mountebanks Rehearsal for Musical Crew Team Funding Raising Kappa Alpha Dinner/Orientation Movie: \Mrs. Doubtfire\ at 8 and 10 PM Student Activities Mountebanks Rehearsals Mountebanks Rehersal for Musical Phi Iota Alpha Meeting College Center Auditorium Fero 102- Coffeehouse CC Upper Class Dining Hall Old Chapel College Center Auditorium Fero 102- Coffeehouse College Center Auditorium Fero I 02 - Coffeehouse College Center 409 Movie: \Mrs. Doubtfire\ College Center Auditorium at 8 and 10 PM Mountebanks Fero I 02- Coffeehouse~ Rehearsal for Musical WRUC Board Meeting College Center 204 Latino Heritage Month Chet's Discussion Group Latino Heritage Month College Center 203 Speaker: Vivianne Gordon Social Sciences 016 Sponsor: Phi Iota Alpha 8;00p 12:00a 8:00p 12:00a Movie: \Mr~. Doubtfir~\ at 8 and IOI~M College ~enter Auditorium Concert: ••Indigo Girls\ Achilles Rink Main Floor Spon&<>r: Concerty Committee Tuesday, April26 11 :OOa 1 :OOp 5:00p 7:30p 6:00p 7:30p 6:30p 11 :OOp 7:00p 9:00p 8:00p 12:00a Speaker: Mary Hays- College Center Auditorium Spons(Jr: Visual Arts Department Delta Psi Delta Meeting SHPE Meeting· Mountebanks Rehearsal for Musical Ray Porter- Speaker Visual Arts Department Movie : \Air(>lane\ at 8 and.IO PM College Center 203 Humanities 113 - Seminar Room Fero 102 - Coffeehouse College Center Auditorium Social Sciences 016 Wednesday, April27 6:00p 8:00p M oJ.mtebanks Social Sciences 103 M~;:eting 7:00p 8:00p Outing Club College Center 409 J:OOp 10:30p Alpha Phi AIJ>ha College Center Auditorium 8:00p lO:OOp Latino Heritage Month Social Science 016 8:00p 12:00a Chet's Committee Chet's 8:30p 9:00p Delta Psi Delta College Center 204 Meetiag 8:30p lO:OOp fJ.LRA College Center 203 Club Meeting MICHE FAMBRO f() speak at Where: OLD CHAPEL When: FRIDAY, APRIL 22 from 8 to 11 PM Suggested Donation: $5 Sp()nsored by: The Campus Protestant . . Mines try Then Groove on Over to Fero House 102 COFFEEHOUSE

PERSONALS/CLASSIFIEDS April21, 1994, page 13 Personals To the brothers .ofDPhi- The sisters of Sigma Delta Tau thank you for t~e use of your house .. The surprise party was a huge success and we were happy that you were a part of it. Hope- fully we'll be able to retum the favor. Thanks again • SDT To Lee- -The weather here is great! - N.W.A and the Possee To the arothers of Chi Psi - Thanks for the \Ia luge.\ It was really wet and slippery. Hope we can do it again! Thnaks- The sisters and pledges of Gamma Phi Beta \Union\ Hey everyone - I just wanted to say thanks for the surpise .party. It was great. You guys are so thoughtful. As I've said so many times before, you all are the rea- son I l1ave survived this place, and I thank you again. Love - Heather Bunny and Copycat- Thanks for at least attempting to get me drunk. I promise to try harder next time. Bunny, you are beau- tiful. Love- the other card car- rying member of the mutual ad- miration society. Hey turtle - Have 1 mentioned to you that I love you, and I don't know how I would survive with- out you. Well; just in case I haven't let me tell you again. Thanks for the weekend,. and lis- tening to me cry as usual. I love you so much. Love- Me WANTED : A 23 year old man who sleeps with stuffed animals, ea·ts buddy bars, snowboards, mountain bikes, watches M.A.S.H and Ren and Stimpy, and has re- ally sticky cimmon bums! Bi Jove you. Happy Birthday Em. (A few days late!!) Love, L Yuan- Congratulations! I can't believe you are graduating. Love - and old friend Little Bro- Love you lots, but you already knew that. Just wanted to put the standard personal in. Love - Big Sis Tom - Still waiting for dinner. Dear M6. (pledges)- . Although Saturday night started slow, it was a great time once we got you wet! Let's do. it again sometime when we could all shower after; perhaps Hamilton. Love- t1Y (@Mohawk) UMED ...,. Classitieds . --;;- Job Opportunity: The CDC is looking for a few good students to fill the impor- tant job of Career Assistant for the 1994-95 academic year. Join an outstanding group ofCA's and disqover a fun and rewarding paid on-campus opportunity. For more information or to pick up an application, stop by the CDC, third floor Old Chapel or call x6176. Applications. are due Fri- day, April 22nd. Job Opportunity: A paid summer office position is available at the CDC. Good com- munication skills and organiza- tional skills a must. Computer competency on the Macintosh. Demonstrated initiative and ma- turity are required. Submit a re- sume and mimes of two refer- ences by Friday, April22nd. Internship Opportunity: . TheCoporate Response Group,in Washington, DC is looking for full or part-time intems who seek business/investigative research experience. Interns will deal with recent and on-going crises and natural disasters such as Pepsi syringe scare and Hurricane An- drew. This position is unpaid. If you are interested contact the CDC for more information. Union \S · ·Em·ergency M~dica1 Service Sponsors: American· Red Cross Community CPR/Stand~rd First Aid Class Saturday, May 21, 1994 Open to the Campus Community Students, Faculty, and Staff Regjster by 5/13 Enrollment: $20.0·0 Questions and Registration: Brian Roberts x6876 Summer Internship Opportunity: The Bank of New York, New York City offers summer interships in one oftheir Manhat- tan branches. Interns will Feceive on the job training in customer service, and in banking products and services. More information in the CDC. Summer Internship: Merrill Lynch & Co., New York City is 'looking for a research intern in their Quantitative Analysis & Convertibles Research Depart- ment. Economics, Mathematics, or other majors with quantitatve skills invited to apply. Must have completed three years of college. Stipend available. More infonna- tion in the CDC. For Sale: Olympic Track mo-ped with helmet. Mo-ped is in great shape. $250. Call x6801 for more infonnation. Summer Job: Summer Camp at the NYS Museum, Albany, is looking for counselors to work with 1st-6th graders. Deadline 4/ 30/94. See the CDC for further details. Summer Program: Student Hos- teling Program has summer lead- ership positions available for teenage bicycling trips. Apply no. See the CDC for further details. Summer Job: Malta Summer Recreation, Malta, NY, is seek- ing interested applicants for staff positions in the Summer Recre- ation Program. See the CDC for further details. Summer Job: Ben & Jerry's on Union Street is looking for a store manager. If you are interested in this position contact CDC for a contact person and further de- tails on this job opportunity. Union College Campus Safety Department Notice/ Advisory Alumni Gym Parking Lot I Please be advised that the Alumni Gym Parking Lot will remain opened during the softball season. Scheduled Home dates are: April 13 April 15 April 19 April23 'April 30 PARKING IN THIS AREA DURING GAMES AND PRACTICE SESSIONS· WILL BE AT YOUR OWN RISK!

April 21, 1994, page 14 SPORTS Track and Field Sbin,es in the Rain at William,s by Mike Leding Concordiensis Sports This past Saturday the Union Track and Field Team traveled to Williams to run in the torrential downpour and came away with a number of personal records and State qualifiers, and a fifth place finish out of the sixteen teams. The day started off with the 10,000 meters in which Linda Seymour battled the rain to fin- ish third in a time of40:'17 quali- fying her for the State Meet in this event. Linda has also previously qualified for the State Meet in the 5,000 meters. While this was tak- ing place the men's weight team was scoring the bulk of the points off the track. Rich Pulver as usual placed first in the Shot Put with a throw of 49 feet 10 inches. In the Jav- el in the combination of Matt Johnson, Chuck Clerici, and AI Poremba had a combiried total of 4 77 feet to set the Williams Re- lay Meet record. Johnson gral;>bed first overall, while Clerici placed second both, quali- fying for the State Meet. Their throws were 177 feet two inches and 172 feet nine inches respec- tively. In the High jump Marcelo Tellez jumped 6 feet 6 inches to place second, qualify for states, and tie a personal record all at once. In the Long Jump Allison Gonyeau achieved~·her personal best by jumping 14 feet 8 3/4 inches, also jumping was Dawn Landry who finished up with a jump of 13 feet 6 3/4 inches. In the Hammer Jon Gainor set a pet• sonal best and qualified for states with a throw of 134 feet 4 inches. Participating for the women were Michele Woodward and Suzanne Johnson who had throws of 55 feet 10 inches and 43 feet 7 inches respectively. Back on the track the most im- pressive race of the day was run by Russ Stram. Russ eclipsed his personal record in the 800 meters by almost three seconds to run a 1:57.6 and .place third overall qualifying himself for states. Also running a personal. best in the 800 meters was Mike Leding with a time of 2:01.8. Winning her heat in the 800 meters was Liza Morse wJth a time of 2:34.06. In the 400 meters a sick Jon Simon qualified for states with a time of 51.43. In the Steeple Chase Nick Conway an~ nihilated his peFsonal record by 19 seconds on his way to nmning a 10:48.15. In the 100 meters Dave Riggi qualified for states and placed secend overall with a time of 11.02. Also in the 100 meters were Shumn Morton and Frank Attah both setting personal records with times of 11.3 and 11.6 respectively. In the 200 meters Dave Riggi placed fourth and qualified for states in a time of 22.39. Setting a personal record in the 200 was Frank Attah with a time of23 .65. In the 5000 meters Sarah Morse ran a sea- sonal best with a time of22:52.05, in this same event John Metz ran a personal best with a blazing time of 16:17.37 .. In the 3000 meters Sarah Teasdale ran a sea- sonal best of 11:31.1. Wonder women Nadine Filosi did three events running the 100 meters, 100 High Hurdles, and 400 Inter- mediate Hurdles, qualifying for States in the 1 00 High Hurdles. This weekend the team wiU be competing at the Albany Inwta- tional and then two weeks later at States. Good luck to the team and continue to train hard. The Mike Johnson. Report by Joe Saltzbart Sports Editor Mike Johnson, a 1993 graduate of Union College with a Math Major, is in extended Spring Training with the New York Mets in Pon St. Lucie, Florida. Mike played well in Spring Train- ing, solidifying a second base job with the Pittsfield, Massachusetts Class \A\ Mets. Their season starts in Mid-June and play close to a 60 ganie schedule with other affiliated minor league clubs in the New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, and Massachusetts area. Fan Mail can be sent to Johnson at this address: Power Macin/csh'IM 6100160 81!60,Appk\ Mike Johnson Care of Mets Minor League Club House 525 Northwest Peacock Blvd Port St. Lucie, Florida 34986 Color Plus 14\ Display, Apple Extended !Wyboard II and miJUSt!. Power MacinJosh™ 7100166 81250, Macinlosh\ Color Di.<pkzy, Appltf li:dentJwJ!<iJyboard U and mouse. · Speed. Power. And more speed. Thats what the new Power Macintosh\ is all about. Its a like statistical analysis, multimedia, 3-D modeling and much more. So, what are you Macintosh\ with PowerPC~ technology. Which makes it an incredibly fast personal computer. And the possibilities are The new Power Macintosh from Apple. waiting for? Visit your Apple Campus Reseller for more in- formation and see for yourself. Now l .~_ that Power Macintosh is here, college may never be the same. App1e . endless. Because now you'll have the power you need for high-performance applications Contact Charles Bosworth at Union College Bookstore College Center, 2nd Floor • 388-6188 . © 1994 Apple Computer, Inc. All rig/Ill reserverJ. Apple, t1Je Apple fogo and Macintosh are regisJered lrademaris of APPle Computer, Inc. AppleCD atzd Power Aflldnlrub aro lrrldemarks of Apple Camptllet; Inc. POUJerPC {sa lrademarli of International Business Machh1e11 Carporallon, used under 1it:eme lilerofo;m.

.SPORTS Women's Softball Sixth in State Deb Montano takes a cut against tl1e Lady Ellgineers of R.P.J. in Union·'s doubleheader split on Tuesday by FRob Malfetano & Joe Saltz bart Concordiensis Sports Despite a demanding schedule, the Union College Softball Squad . has managed to earn a 9-9 record, good enough fbr 6th in the state. Captains Deb Montano, Chrissy Nytransky, Andrea Pagnozzi, and Nicole Silvestri are enthusiastic about their progress thus far and a 6-1 romp, while Alison Draizin dueled her Capital District foe to no avail in an 8-7 loss. Anderson continued to shine at the plate stroking a two run triple in the first game. She leads the team in RBl's and is hovering around the .400 average mark, hot on the heels of shortstop Stephanie Howk for the team batting leader. Women's Lax Update How about a season recap! ln three doubleheaders, Union has swept Hartwick, split with Binghamton, and dropped a deuce to Oneonta. Head Coach Sue Pedone and Assistant Coach by Joe Saltzbart & Rob Malfetano Concordiensis Sports To date, the Union College Women's Lacrosse team has struggled to a 4-6 record and the chances of postseason play are slim. Despite their record, the team is showing signs of impro,vement and with a flurry of victories hope to finish above the .500 mark. . Captains Mindy Kessler , Molly Pearsall, and Wendy Miller, all of whom have played brilliantly and have led the team to victories against Wells College, Albany, Wittenberg, and most recently gave an o1d fashioned butt whoopin' to Siena, 18-5. George Cuttita are enjoying the Unfortunately, the Dutchwomen effort of this year's squad; Ladies have dropped games to and Gentlemen, your Union Connecticut College, College Dutchwomen! Pitchers Middlebury, Hamilton, Williams, Stacey Anderson and Allison Skidmore, and RPI. Rounding out Draizin, Deb Montano at first, the starting lineup are Missy Nicole Silvestri at second, Lombardoni at attack, Kristen Andrea Pagnozzi in the hot Pappas and Alison Williams and cornet, Stephanie Howk at 'first and second home', Lauren shortstop, Chrissy Nytransky, Ingis, Michelle :Srustolon, Jen Kim Fanning, and Chris Weske Manna, Nicole Solomas, and in the outfield and Jen Ricci !(,ate Durocher at defense and behind the plate. Margaret Day and Hillary Jospe There's an air of optimism in goal. about the dugout these days and Upcoming games include as Quad Captain Deb Montano Vass~onSaturday and Hartwick, notes, \Every game we're both at home at Frank Bailey improving and we are excited for Field. Come on out and catch the state tournament which is just them before the season is over.. around the comer\. Rugby Makes Big Splash - Cont From Page 16 wing, he was :served up a two on one. The first thug ran into him and proceeded to pass the ball Upending defenders were not enough and his in,. off to his trailing teammate. Taking down the first timidating defense. managed to carry through right brute nearly took him out of the play, but though after the whistle as he demonstrated to one Hamilton falling down, he reached out his arm, grabbed the · defender just how deep the puddles were. The nor- shirt of the second Middlebury rugger and brought mally parsimonious Union defense held RPI with- both down ending that scoring opportunity. Well out a try last week and followed by shutting down done George, you just made Joe Mammola's plays Hamilton .. The only problem is that Union didn't of the year. Unfortunately, it was not enough as score either. While twice Hamilton entered the Middlebury pulled through with a hard earned 10- Union try zone, twice they were rejected. Your 0 win. Union Rugby Team was unyielding and played out~ . The Killer B's on the other hand pulled off an standing defense. upset! Against a tough Middlebury team, they TI1e Middlebury squad on the other hand at first emerged on top 3-0. Though the line only got the appeared to· be an unorganized legion of derelicts ball three times, the entire game, due to a make when they first took the pitch. Bedecked in what shift serum, Union received a penalty kick late in . appeared to be hand-me~downs and archaic athletic the second half. Fighting off the vicious rains, Seth accoutrements, they didn't look quite the New En-. Brown kicked one through the uprightsfor the only gland rugggers they were. Yet, from the opening . score of the game. whistle, they proved their worth with a very physi.: The Rugby Gods have been appeased thanks to cal game. Under the direction of a skilled Austra- a spiritual pilgrimage by Mike Valvo and the cer- lian flyhalf (damn imported players!), they ran a emonious sacrifice of Lothar to the powers that · controlled offensive game, that however pretty, was be. With the current record a respectable 1-1-1, countered by a relentless Union attack. the team heads to the Williams tournament for an Contributing to the cause were the defensive 'be- 8 team tourney that figures to be quite a doozy as · roics of George \bows the knee look\ Bazos whq Union will square off against some of the finest clearly made the play of the game. Alone on the rugby teams in New England. • April21, .1994, page 15 riv~~til-lcndpverin tile air. finally coming to a stop in .. . .. . .... J can \tails straying from the conven~ ·· th~ coin always lands on \heads.\ I know that tlll!itt~!ClSlon· eou.ldinipactthe entire series. I know how crucial it is . · a'b tbe coit~ctciilL ldid not know enough. The coin lands tis:' !lose the home ice advantage. Oatries one through four are eventful but predictable. The home team~th~ is~ the tearn in red~ wins all the games. The contests them- . setv~s at~ ahliost repetitiv~.rwith the home team always scoring first · anlil '~arly, using: the speed and agility that makes it the advanta ... geo 1 ~steam. Usually. the teams would then scrap goal for goal until :finatfy,in~lastfew seconds of the game, the home team scores a goal·Or two, sealing the victory and assuring a continuance of the series. ~'nv·'u\'~~·· .g;~m~( 1 the pivotal game of any seven game series .. · · · coin toss loss sentenced me . I know the only way to combat the · , · · to :play solid defense., . S;trategy of straddling the llf:l!in;~ll:J¥;,, t9 overtime.>but not far . · · ex<traordm- k~C<l-~s ;{l~'W'll tbe -i~ Men's Lacrosse' Defeats Siena by Bill Endo Contributing Writer With the win over Siena, Union pulls to 3-4. The Siena game started slow and was tied 6-6 at the half. l11en Union got it to- gether and scored ten goals the second half and ended the game 16-8. The offensive drive was led by the whole team and the defense only let up two goals in the sec- ond half. TI1e Hamilton game started off much like the Siena game. Then every thing fell into place and Union won 1 0-7. The Williams game was the first game that Union has played on grass since Florida. The combination of the different surface and Williams' home field advantage led to a dis- appointing 12~8 loss . Now, Union has their eyes on the Capitol Cup. Union has only lost it once in the past eight years, and t11ere is no intention of loos- ing it this year. By beating Skidmore and Siena, the team is now 2-0 in the race for the cup. SPORTS ..• ..

·' April 21, 1994 PAGE16 Wet and Wild, Rugby Style : Dutchmen Valiant in Defeat by Rob Malfetano & Winston Churchill Associate Sports Editors Mud. Not much else can be saio of the Rugby field last Saturday as the pitch was reduced to a swampy mess. The rugby gods invei.ghed their wrath and frowned upon the nonnally stal- wart bunch that is the Union Rugby Team as they failed to come away with a victory this past weekend. Torrential rains of Biblical proportions greeted the Hamilton and Middlebury teams to Schenectady for a three game stint at the breath taking Union College campus. TI1e home squad failed to score a point in either game despite a Herculean effort and walked away, mud covered and soaked, with a loss and a tie. While there weren't too many highlights. this week, there was certainly plenty of action. Despite the strategical debacle the elements brought, the speed of the Union squad was sum- marily neutralized, especially the lightning quick duo of scrummers Mike \Wheels\Hanna and Peder \Chewb.acca\ Maarbjerg. Un- daunted, they squared off against Hamilton first with the try zone beneath half a foot of watt::r. This put fullback Lee \this ain't noth- Cllris Bangs a11d Rob Dupoyscramblefqr tl}p ball on a drenclled Rugby Field in Saturday's game. (pltoto by Jos-11 Haines/TC) ing like soccer\ Popper in quite a pickle as after every kick out of the Union zone, he confronted a . horde of menacing defenders who relished the poltroonery of a few late hits. Jay Fisllbein in full swing in Union's loss to StLawrence on Saturday (plloto by Jeremy Smitii/TC) Men's Tennis Loses to Oneonta by Ken Berman Contributing Writer This year's young Union Dutchmen Tennis Team began their season with high expecta- tions, with most of their top play- ers returning from last season. The team includes only a hand- ful of contributing juniors, to serve (no pun intended) as ex- amples for the youngsters to fol- low. Mysteriously enough, the team has played on without spiri- tual leader Chris Diemand, who was unable to join the team this year, for undisclosed reasons. Fortunately, Scott Rose has filled this void; becoming a father fig- ure for the younger players. In- cluded in this conglomeration of freshman players, are Brett Shapiro, Ian Lev, and Jeff Kasowitz. Returning players in- clude the super sophs Jason Fishbein, Steve Klopfer, Jon Pearlman, Kenton Chase, and Andy Schneider. Unfortunately, the team's goals have not yet been fulfilled, as they have struggled thus far to a 2-4 record, with wins over Utica and St. Rose. However, their record could easily be as good as 4-2, had it not been for two close losses to Oneonta and Capital Region rival RPI. The other matches did llot go as well as they had hoped, with decisive victo- ries going the way of Binghamton and ahh ... that other college with the good team, that we can't think of right now. With matches remainirig against such teams as Vassar, Albany, Oswego and Hartwick, the team has a good chance to close out the season with a few wins. Regardless of their final record, the tennis team has al- ready proved that they can hit with anyone. Union Tennis will be a force to be reckoned with in upcoming seasons. Mired in a muck worse than Sunday bar sludge. flyhalf Charlie King, the 'Swamp Fox' that he is, was not to be outdone. Continued on Page 15 Swing. and a Miss! Baseball-Swept Again by Joe Saltz bart· Sports Editor looked forward to playing the always tough University of Rochester on a crazy weather Your Union College Baseball Sunday, where rain and hai1 · . Dutchmen suffered three close mixed with sunny skies. The first · losses this weekend to Williams game featured the pitching of . and the l)niversity of Rochester at Paul Drumm (1-2). Rochester · the friendly confines of got to Drumm in the second · Schenectady's Central Park. l11e inning with three runs on three · Union men now hold an overall hits and then for another in the · record of 4-13 and continue to third inning to take a 4-0 lead. work hard for success in the second But your Dutchmen fought back· half ofthe season schedule. ill the fourth inning when catcher This past Friday, the Dutchmen Joe Saltzbart singled in shortstop took on the visiting Ephs of ChipMulkinstoputUniononthe Williams,jumping out to an early Scoreboard. The Union men • lead behind the pitching dominant scored another in the fifth inning ·pitching of Keith Lombardo (0-4). when left fielder Mike Bernardo ·Unfortunately, Lombardo scored on a Dagostino ground struggled in the fifth inning and outto make the score 4-2 in favor· Williams tied up the score 6-6. of Rochester. Rochester Lombardo battled Williams, knocked out Drumm in the sixth pitching until the seventh inning inning when they scored three with Williams on top, 8-6. Scott more runs. Jay Greenstein came Newton and Brett Rubin came on .on in relief to finish the game· in relief of Lombardo in the 8tb. with the final score 7-2. and 9th inning and shut down the In the second game, pitcher Ephs. Mike Bernardo (1-1) held Yet, Union failed to Rochester to on_ly one run manufacture the necessary runs through six innings. ·and lost another close game, 8-6. Unfortunately, the Dutchmen Shortstop Eric Kujawski and couldn't get on the scoreboard center fielder David Dagostino and lost the game 5-0. Again, both had multi-hit games in the. Greenstein came on in relief losing effort. First baseman David. allowing no runs and no hits. Bemstein had three RBis for the The team looks to rebound this Dutchmen, along with one apiece. weekend with games at Clarkson from third baseman Jamie Haver and St. Lawrence in a four game and designated hitter Johnny set. TI1e Dutchmen need to come Aurora. away with four victories to keep After being rained out on their hopes of post season play Saturday, the Union baseball team alive.

i ' ,. . nnrnr t.ensts The Student ~etvspaper of Union College Since 1877 Volume CXXIII, Number XX Schenectady,New York . . Union-owned house on G. E. Plot which is being considered/or renovation (J. Smith/TC) Schenectady Residents in Uproar Over Union's Renovation ·Plans by Larry Paska Investigative Reporter Plots efland, formerly owned by General Electric and later acquired by Union College, are the source of debate over whether college offices should be moved into the houses on those sites. According to Paul Rieschick, Director of Alumni Affairs, \The college wants to use the properties [along Lenox Road] for faculty and administrative offices.\ Moving offices such as the Graduate Management Institute (GMI), the Administra- tive Services and Personnel Of- fice, and Graduate and Continu- ing Studies to the Lenox Road properties enables more space on campus for dormitories. The college applied for an amendment to the city's zoning code to allowthe offices by a spe- cial use permit. The properties were acquired more than a decade ago, when the uses proposed by the college were permitted. A zoning ordinance amendment in 1984 eliminated mostspecial uses within the area, commonly re- ferred to as the GE Realty Plot. The college recently filed a draft environmental impact state- ment with the Schenectady City Council. The statement notes that the college will not change the exteriors of the buildings, save the construction of accessible lifts for the handicapped, which would be screened by landscaping. Interior renovations would be done so that they would be reversible and the buildings could be returned to single ... family use. The college is working with the staff of the City Council's Development and Planning Committee to de- velop a final draft of the state- ment. Three of the Lenox Road properties are occupied by fac- ulty, staff, or guests; two prop- erties contain vacant houses; three properties are vacant lots: No changes are planned for the vacant lots. Union has requested that only offices and guest houses should occupy the houses. The college claims that the buildings used for offices will keep with the character of the neighborhood, which already contains profes- sional offices, a church, and a school. Continued on page 4 April 28, 1994 Latino Heroes Celebrated for Heritage Month by Francisco Munoz Contributing Writer do not need to adjust to a differ- ent social system but need to understand that Iatinos are differ- The Latino Heritage MQnth ent and that difference is what committee of The African and makes them unique. This Latino Alliance of Students at uniqueness is their contribution Union College is very satisfied to this society yet they are denied with the turrtout at the events eel- of this privilege. ebrating the month. They can The Club also held Salsa and safely state that they have sue- Merengue dance lessons in Fero ceeded at providing intellectual, House evecy Friday from 6:00pm cultural and social l to 8:OOpm for activities geared to- I the Month of ward the promotion April. Fero of important Latino · ~~'-,..\--··- House was mov- i ssues. The greatest . i ng to the sastifaction is that 1 1 rhythm of the \we have brought 1 Caribbean beat I together many · as students people of diversed taught each cultural back- otherthesetradi- grounds with the tional dances. objective of shari11g The dance les- our unique cultures sons also served and serving as cata- the purpose of lysts for better rela- ~;a.._.....;:.._ __ ~--'-1 having a com- tions.\ Here is are- South America fortableenviron- cap of the activities ment in which to that took place during the month. On April 4th, A.L.A.S. spon- sored Dr. David T. Abalos for a speech addressing issues that are relevant to the contemporary Af- rican and Latinocommunity. Dr. Abalos spoke about some of the traditional problems and. stereo- types that affect members of a people of a color community. He indicated that it's time for this new generation to cleanse off the vi- ruses that have infected their soci- etY for many years. He also pro- posed his theory of Transforma- tion as a possible solution to di- lemmas,. such as racism, sexism, traditionalism, prejudice, and ig- norance. Dr. Abalos, concluded his lecture by explaining that we interact. On April 6th, the movie \American Me\was shown, which dealt with contemporary Latino issues in the U.S .. On April 14th, the movie \Like Water for Chocolate\ was also shown. This movie focused on how traditions are past from gen- eration to generation and how this pattern is broken. Both mov- ies captured the core of the Latino culture inside and outside the U.S .. On April 16th, a \Poetry Reading Night\ was put together in Fero House. During this event students read poems of their Continued on page 3 Professor (Jauthier Lectures on Moral and Political Philosophy by Elissa D. Hecker Concordiensis Staff The Philosophy Department of Union College invited Professor Gauthier of the University of Pittsburgh to visit as a guest lec- turer and presenter during the weeks of April 20th and May 2nd. A moral and political philosopher of both systemic and historical backgrounds, Professor Gauthier began teaching in 1958 at the University of Toronto. h1 1980 he joined the University of Pitts- burgh, where today he is a distin- guished service professor of phi- losophy. Professor Gauthier has and will facilitate class presentations, dis- cussions and lectures. Last week he spoke to Professor Baker's bio- medical ethics class ~d Profes- sor Womack's class of logic and critical thinking. In early May, he will be speaking to Professor Davis' ethical theory class in a critical discussion ofphilosophy, among others. On May 3, he will join the Kappa Alpha society for a dinner where he intends to share his reflections about what being a philosopher entails. The Pro- fessor bas already given one talk on the topic of rationality of mo- rality, and on May 4 he will give another lecture about the autobi· ography and philosophies of Rousseau. His presentations are of specific personal interest, in that the sub- ject of the rationality of morality \has been the unifying theme of most ofmy'[Gauthier] philosophi- cal activity. I tend to come back to it since I find myself rethink- ing aspects of my position there. My talk on Rousseau reflects.cur- rent works... I found ... that I am interested in how aspects of his autobiographical writings seemed to undermine his position on philosophy, politics, and edu- cation.\ When asked about his personal philosophy towards life, Profes- sor Gauthier responded that ''phi- losophers don't necessarily have .a philosophy oflife. As I said in rational morality ... I'm a partisan of reason ... and a believer in the importance of bringing reason into human affairs as far as pos- sible.\ \If I were to be remembered by a one liner, it would be just to support that reason by itself isn't going to solve all of our prob- lems, hut we won't be able to solve problems without reason.\ As a moral theorist and profes- sor of both undergraduate and graduate studies, Professor Gauthier has worked with count- less numbers of students over the years. When asked if he felt the caliber and quality of students has improved or worsened since he began teaching in 1.958, Gauthier responded that \there certainly have been changes in student atti- tudes and interests over that period of time ... I began teaching at a time when... social and political con- cetns were on the increase among students ... and of course the 1960's was a period of great political and social activity in the academic community, and students were on the forefront... then there was a period of quiescence when stu- dents were preparing for jobs and careers and were less concerned for the world around them ... Now social concerns are on the rise again, although of a rather differ- ent kind ... In the 60's ... there was almost a 'save the world' men- tality, somehow bringing right- ful political and social orders into being. It's not the same opti- mism in today's world. Students are more concerned with specific Continued on page 4 Inside News ............................. 2-4 Committees ....................... 5 Student Forum ............... 6-7 Editorial ............................ 8 Letters ......................... 9-11 Science and Health ......... 12 Features ..................... 13-15 A&E ....................... 16ml8 Schedule ......................... 19 Personals ......................... 20 Sports ......................... 21-24

' · April 28, 1994, page 2 CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT ' . ' ' .. . . ,• ' . ' . ' ~ . . . ' WEEKLY INCIDENT SUMMARY DATE/TIME MONDAY. APRIL 18, 1994: 9:30AM West College 3:03PM 8:45PM ' '\ South College Richmond TUESDAY, APRIL 19. 1994: 10:25 PM West College WEDNESDAY •. APRIL 20,_ 1994: 6:43 AM Raymond North. 4:45 PM Wer;t College Lot 6:04 PM Nott s·ew:atd Lot 6:13PM LamonlLot . 9:06PM Phi Delta Theta THURSDAY. APRIL 21, 1994: 12:35 AM Davidson South · • 12:4 7 AM South College 1:59AM Union Avenue . ,., .~' 3:29AM West College 4:10AM West College 4:40AM Campus Grounds 9:20AM Richmond Lot 3:15PM Hutn. & SS Bldgs 8:37PM Humanities 11:27 PM A. D. Phi FRIDAY, APRIL 22. 1994: 7:10PM Nott Seward Lot 9:34PM 10:52 PM Phi Delta Theta Chi Psi SATURDAY. APRIL 23, 1994: 12:53 AM Fox South 12:47 AM S&E North ' 7~55 AM Campuswide 9:50AM West College 10:00 AM Davidson 10:30 PM Raymond House 10:53 PM Fox House SUNDAY, APRIL 24. 1994: 2:45 AM Potter/Hickok area 3:00AM Alexander Lan 10:40 AM Eng. Lab Lot 3:00PM A.D. Phi 3:20PM Davidson So. Lawn 5:10PM Alexander Lane 8:46PM Nott Memorial 8:16PM McKean House 8:24PM Webster House 9:30PM Fox House 10:30 PM Fox House INCIDENT FIRE ALARM: Caused by burnt toast. Recurrent problem. Dining Service to correct the problem. THEFT: Student's clothing stolen from laundry room. ELECTRICAL PROBLEM: Recurrent problem with overloaded circuits. Electrical Section advised. TIJEFT: Money stolen from student's walfetQroom unlocked. (Incident occurred 4/17/94). PROPERTY DAMAGE: Broken window-accidental. PARKING VIOLATION: Mis~pplication qf.parking decal. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized. Unregis tered repeat violator. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized. Unregis tered repeat violator FIRE ALARM: Two incidents 9:06PM & 11:20 PM both caused 'by a ~pider in the detector. V ANDAL(SM: Broken windows. • SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Odor ·Of marijuana reported. Confirmed. Conduct Chargess filed. NOISE COMPLAINT: SPD investigating loud party off campus. Students involved. Requested Catnpus Safety . FIRE .ALARM/LIFE SAFETY VIOLAl'IONS: Caused by intentional activation of pull box. Life Safety Violation Not~ces filed for false alarm 2nd floor hall and to a resident for refusing to evacuate during a fire alarm. VANDALJSM: Window broken. MISCHIEF: Mailbox tipped over. ~ARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized. Unregis tered .repeat violator. THEFT: Cabling for A.V. equipment stolen. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Odor of marijuana reported. Confirmed. Suspects gone on arrival. FIRE ALARM: Cause undetermined. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized. Unregis . . I tered repeat violator. FIRE ALARM: Caused by dust from sander. SECURITY HAZARDN ANDALISM: Tampering with entry door lock. ' FIRE ALARM/MINOR FIRE: Trash can fire believed to have been caused by accidental means. No damage or injury. VANDALISM: Thermostat control damaged. POWER INTERRUPTION: Momentary electric power loss on campus. Restored. Cause undetermined. SAFETY HAZARD: Candle in room. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Tampering with room fire extinquisher. Life Safety Notice filed. l\IQE ALARM: Believed to have been caused by perfume spray. DISORDERLY/UNSANITARY CONDUCI': Report of students urinating out .of win~ows. RECKLESS DRIVINGN ANDALISM: Vehicle driven in a reckless manner across lawns. Conduct Charges filed. VANDALISM: Barrier chain lock broken. VANDALIS;M: Windshield wipers on rented vehicle damaged. FIRE ALARM: Two incidents 3:00PM & 4:00PM-both caused by a faulty detector. Electrical Department notified. HARASSMENT: Student r;unning was verbally harassed by passers-by. Suspects left campus. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Barrier chain broken-believed to have been accidental. TRESPASS/SAFETY HAZARD: Students climbing scaffolding. FIRE ALARM: Caused by burned food on stove. FIRE ALARM/MINOR FIRE: Minor electrical fire caused by student's portable fan motor. Applicance dam~ge only, no injury. SFO notified for venting. THEFT: Student's lacrosse jacket stolen from unlocked room. Occurred early AM hours. THEFT: Various items stolen from student's unlocked room. Occurred eatly AM hours.

A Not So Subtle Hint Did you rememb·er to vote? Candidates Student Forum President Nathan Coffin Vice-President Academics Isca Beswick David Levine Tony Sinanis Vice- President Administration Elissa D. Hecker Larry Lyons Vice-President Finance Jon-Miller Junior Trustee Seth Brown Geramie Camara Rich Fuerst Lisa Korber Elections Tomorrow! NEWS April 28, 1994, page 3 Michael Dukakis to Speak Next Thursday by Caroline J~ Paine New Editor Fonner Massachusetts Gover- nor and presidential candidate in 1988, Michael Dukakis, will speak in the Memorial Chapel on Thursday, May 5 at 7:30pm. During his political career, Dukakis focused on two goals: a national health insurance, and a voluntary \National Service Corps.\ His interest in these pro- grams was inspired thmugh his upbringing as the son of an im- migrant Greek doctor who was dedicated to the large numberS of people who can not afford proper health care. Dukakis grew up believing that everyone who needed care would be granted it, because Dr. Dukakis. treated ev- eryone who .came to him regard- less oftheir.ability to pay. When Dukakis saw that most people around the country did not re.- ceive health care he dedicated himself to their cause. After leaving politics in Janu .. ary 1989, Dukakis changed his approach of championing a na- tional health care plan. He isnow focusing his attenti.ons on America's youth on college cam- puses. He has had visiting pro- fessorships at the University of Hawaii, the John F. Kennedy School for Government at Harvard University and North- eastern University where he is, presently teaching. While at the University of Ha- waii, Dukakis lead a number of public forums on reforms of the nation's health care system. Ha- waii now has the first universal health insurance system in the country. This has generated a lot of public interest in lightofPresi- dent Clinton's health plan pro- posal. Dukakis will address the Union student body on \Ensuring American Health- Now.\ He will explain how students can be in- volved to further the passage of a working health care plan. The talk will be open to the public and no admission will be charged. Latino Awareness Month A Resounding Success to11tinued from page 1 choices which reflected some- thing about the Latino culture. Some poems were written by fa- mous poets while other poems were written by the students them- selves. On April 19th, A.L.A.S. spon- sored, thenationwideknown, Dr. Samuel Betances. Dr. Betances, a dynamic speaker,.spoke about his personal experiences as a child growing up in the Bronx and how he has achieved. the influential position that he enjoys today de- spite all the odds. He also com- mented on the issue of education Last Saturday, Alex Torres and tl1e Latin Kings excited a large crowd behi11d the College Center in the U.S .. He believes teachers should teach students what they do not know and not simply fail them for not knowing. Yet, Dr. Betances also reiterated that stu- dents should do their share of the work by actually studying, not cramming. The speech ended with a recount of his relationship with his wife and children. He emphasized on the importance of changing the roles of the tradi- tional husband and father. On April 23rd, the perfect weather settled in for Alex Torres and The Latin Kings, a salsa and merengue band. The band's ex- cellent perfonnance quickly en- ergized many of the spectators and dancing on the lawn started. It was an incredible afternoon in which history was made. It was the first time in the 200 years of Union College existence that a Latino band played in the College Center Patio. This event was at- tended by students, faculty, ad- ministrators, and visitors from nearby cities. On April 25th, A.L.A.S. held a roundtable discussion entitled \The Latino Identity\. This s proved to be an effective method II) li of getting to know about current r...: situation at Union of Latinos and >-African-American students. In ~ addition, it helped in providing 'B. the foundation for self-identifica- tion, meaning how they wish to be ethnically addressed, as a group. The discussion also in- cluded the definition and origin of the terms Latino, Latin Ameri- can and Hispanic. \Hispanic\ is of European descent and is re- jected by some because it does not accurately represent the people of African, Indian or Mestizo de- scent. \Latino\ refers to the in- clusion of all of the people from the Latin American countries. Latin American indicates not only those from the golden nations of Latin America but also those who reside outside their native lands. Among the twenty-seven partici- pants were faculty members and one administrator. On April 30th, A.L.A.S will host \Cocina Latina\ in Hale House from 5:30pm to 7:30pm for a limited amount of people. In this occasion a Latino dinner will be cooked and served by stu- dents. The menu will include rice with black beans, roasted pork, chicken stew, fried dumplings ( empanadas) and a mixed salad. There will also be a vegetarian plate that will includes eggplants. Since space and the budget are limited, we have a sign up sheet for those who are interested. A.L.A.S. thanks all those orga- nizations and committees which have assisted in sponsoring and coordinating these events. ..... . ~· '·

April 28, 1994, page 4 NEWS . Y ossi Olmert, Middle East Peace· Expert Will Speak May 12 Gauthier Gu·est Lectures . Courtesy of Public Relations ·.· ;,;,: Yossi Olmert, one of Israel's leading spokesmen and a partici- pant in a number of Middle East peace talks, will speak on the cur- rent peace process when he de- livers the Anwar Sadat Lecture on Thursday, May 12, at 8 p.m. · in Union College's Memorial · Chapel. The lecture will be free to the public. Olmert is an independent re- searcher and columnist for Israel's largest newspaper, , Yedioth Aharonot. He was direc- tor of the Israel Government . Press office, having been ap- . pointed to the post in 1989 by . Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir. In that capacity, he has become Israel's leading spokesman Continued from page 1 features of the social order, for example race and gender rela- tions, they see as impacting on them rather than an overall con- cern with social justice. It's more particular.\ He stated that he has not found that students have become either more or less serious a:bout their studies. He acknowledged the fact that there are some experts who feel that there have been marked changes, but in his field of expertise he had not encoun- tered ''what I would call major changes there.\ When asked how he would qualify philosophy students in general, Professor Gauthier said, \I think philosophy students have always been questioning in some ways perhaps students in the other disciplines might not. .. They have an unwillingness to accept argu- ments, just because somebody says so, which I think is a good thing.'' He dQes not enjoy teaching non-philosophy students as much as those within his own discipline, becaQse;.he think that his, \teach- ing talents are best directed to- wards philosophy students, not so much a matter of enjoyit1g, but my style·ofteachingis to take ar- guments. and analyze them ... and ask should we accept this, and I think philosophy students have a sense ofwhat's going,o;n ... I find I get more response ... non-phi- losophy students are perhaps more puzzled at times .. ;\ ProfessoJ,\ Gauthier enjoyed both the classes in which he has guest lectured, ~well as the ques- tions and ideas that students con- tributed. \There seems to be a spirit of lively inq11ity and thought that I think is a good one.\ He hopes and expects that it will continue during his next visit to Union. . abroad. He has participated in the Madrid peace talks and in some subsequent meetings between Is- rael and the Syrian delegation. Olmert also served as head of ' the Syria and Lebanon depart- ment at Tel Aviv University's Day Center for Middle East and Schenectady v. Union · African Studies, where he was a lecturer in Middle East Studies at the university's school for over- seas students. An expert on Middle East is- sues including terrorism, national minorities and the Palestinian problem, he has written a num- ber of books and articles, and he has attended a number of inter- national conferences. Olmert's talk is part of the Frederic Miller Lecture Series in Memory of Anwar Sadat pre- sented by the Union College De- partment of History. The series is supported by the family of the late Frederic Miller, a member the College's Class of 1960, who began the series on Middle East issues. Continued frompage 1 The change is sought by the college because every extra space previously available on campus has been exhausted, especially with the expansion ofthe College Center, Alumni Gym, and the new Geology Department. The only remaining space available for ad- ditional construction, near the Nott Street and Seward Place in .. tersection, must serve as parking Jay Newman (left), oftlte pltysics department, and Barbara Denowski (right), ofthe Biology Department (Michele Roseman/TC) Newman and Danowski Awarded Grants Totalling $140,000 Courtesy of Public Relations The National Science Founda- tion has awarded a $140,000, three year grant to Jay Newman of the Physics Department and Barbara Danowski of the Biology Department for their research en- titled, \Dynamics of Actin Inter- actions and Structure.\ The purpose of the research is awarded by the biophysics pro.. effects of actin of smaller inert to better understand the funda- gram ofthe NSF, and is the sec- molecules. mental relationships between the ond three -year renewal of a long Newman and Danowski to- structure and function of actin in term research program ·on the gether will study the effects of the cytoplasm ofcells. dynamics of the protein actin. molecular crowding on actin in The grant also provides fornine Using dynamic light scattering ''artificial cells\ using light scat- undergraduate students to partici- and rheology, Newman will study tering, rheology and fluorescence pate in summer research. The the direct interactions of actin microscopy. Thesestudieswillbe grant was only one of fifteen with other proteins and indirect correlated with similar studies by Danowski on actin in living cells. for the new buildings and for stu- dents, faculty, staff, and visitors. No adverse impact on property values is forseen as aresult of the proposed zoning amendment, ac- cordingto an analysis prepared by William J. MacAvoy, a New York State certified appraiser. The relocation of offices would allow75 to 80 students who now live off-campus to reside in on- campus housing. This would en- hance the residential nature of the campus. \The college feels that it is a good neighbor,\ said Rieschick, \since we do a lot for the com- munity. We have guaranteed we will not use the buildings for fra- ternities, parking spaces, resi- dence halls, and ·so on.\ Rieschick also believes that Union's high quality ·of students enrolled will help the cause and contribute to 'the strength of the area. \It will ~dd greatly to the college's attractiveness to poten- tial students, and contribute to the employment stabilitY of our col- leagues and neighbors,\ said Rieschick, noting Union's prom- ise that no employee will lose his or her job as a result of the cur- rent economic difficulties, a com- mitment unique among Schenectady's major employers. A Schenectady resident stated that in years prior to Roger Hull's administration, the college made attempts to level the properties, not securing the proper demoli .. tion ·pennits to do so; The col- lege claimed that the buildings would not be destroyed, yet the . college was stopped when bull- dozers appeared .on the sites. These events are stiU fresh in lo- cal memories, and the people of Schenectady do not know what Union wants, according to the resident. ************** Simply the Best The Concordy ·**************

AD April 28, 1994, page 5 l\o the Editor: On behalfofthe Committee on Committees, I would like to encourage students to apply for the various student committee positions. The applications are now available in $tudent Activit~es Office in CC 408, and are due Wednesday, May 4. All committee appointments are made by the members of Committe~ on Committees. · As a participant on a committee, students have the power to impact academic, administrative, and social decisions. Also I feel by being involved, students obtain a better understanding of how Unicm College functions. We would like to see all the positions filled by .the end of Spring term 1994. This is chance to make a difference, so become involved! Sincerely, Rachel Schaffer COCChair STUDENT COMMITTEES MAJOR COMMITTEES ACADEMIC AFFAIRS COUNCIL Composed ofthe Deans ofUndergraduate and Graduate Curriculums, seven faculty members and students~ this council monitors the academic climate of the college-in such areas as the calendar, course offerings, curriculum, and other academic policies. COMMITTEE ON COMMITTEES This committee works closely with the Student Forum in monitoring club constitutions,. events and actions of all college committees and clubs. It is responsible for the selection of all student committee membership. FINANCE COMMITTEE This committee is responsible for making budget recommendations for the final appro :val of the Student Forum and the distribution of all student funds to college clubs and committees. GENEMLEDUCATIONBOARD This committee discusses and implements plans in relation to the Aca- demic Affairs Council. It also reviews the General Education require- ments. (One Freshman- 2 yrs. position) HONORARY DEGREE COMMITTEE This committee is responsible ·for soliciting recommendations for the Trustee Committee on Honors. It makes nominations, posts awards, and recommend~ ·an Honorary Chancellor. (2 sophomores to serve for two years), PLANNING AND PRIORITIES COMMITTEE This committee is responsible for the policies in budgetary areas, and it is asked to reflect upon any requests for significant changes in College bud- gets which have been approved previously. It also is responsible for the long-range planning of the college with regard to financial implications, institutional changes and all n~n-academic issues. (1 sophomore for 2 years) STANDING OF STUDENTS COMMITTEE This committe~ reviews the records of students earning less than a satis- factory term average. It deals with student petitions for readmission and for exceptions or modifications in graduation requirements. It may review those College policies affecting the academic standing of students at Union. In particul, they are in charge of re-examining at regular intervals, the criteria for Dean's List standing. (1 Independent student.) STUDENT AFFAffiS COUNCIL This committee reviews and recommends of policies to Student Housing, Dining Services, College Center, Health Services, Career Counseling and Development, .Student Conduct, Fraternities and Sororities and the Stu- dent Forum. STUDENT CONDUCf CO~MITTEE -. Conducts hearings and recommends disciplinary action to the Dean of Stu- dents in cases of student misconduct. MINOR COMMITTEES CAMPUS OPERATIONS,COMMITTEE Committee consists of representatives of the student body, staff, faculty, administration and the Director of Campu~ Operations. This body meets to discuss all issues relevant to the operation of the college campus. The two student representatives will be chosen from the Student Grounds Com- mittee. CHET'S COMMITTEE This committee plans and schedules events that take place at Chet's. CONCERT COMMITTEE . This committee is responsible for deciding upon, contracting (with the as- sistance of the Student Activities Office), and organizing campus-wide musical events. FILM COMMITTEE This committee plans and implements college film programs throughout the academic school year. LIAISON COMMITTEE FOR ADMISSIONS A member of this committee serves as student representative to the Admis- sions Committee. This committee, which consists of faculty and adminis- trators, reviews admissions procedures and makes recommendations to the Dean of Admissions and to the President of the College. LIAISO~ COMMITTEE FOR ATHLETICS Members advise the Director of Athletics on all matters pertaining to Ath- letics including intercollegiate, recreational, and instructional programs, intramurals, and club sports. This committee participates in discussions of general priorities, and in bringing the concerns of the student body to the Director of Athletics. LIASON FOR CA:MPUS FACILITIES ·The Liaison Committee for Campus Facilities shall advise the Vice Presi- dent for Campus Life on all matters of physical state of the campus and on plans for improvements. LIAISON COMMITTEE FOR THE LIBRARY This committee monitors and offers suggestions for improvements in li- brary operations and the library itself. PARKING APPEALS COMMITTEE This committee allows students to contest traffic violations in front of their peers. (4 students to serve for one year.) RESEARCH AND GRANT SUB COUNCIL This committee is composed of one student, four faculty members, and the Vice President for Academic Affairs. It reviews the College policy on grant and research distribution to faculty members and advises the Vice President on the discretionary use of those funds that are provided for these programs. It may, at its discretion, recommend changes in the present provisions of the Research and Grant Corporation. SOCIAL COMMITTEE This committee plans and implements a wide variety of activities for stu- dents which do not come under the control of other organizations. SPEAKERS FORUM This committee is responsible for selecting and contracting, with the assis- tance of the Student Activities Office, speakers of all types for campus entertainment and information. WRITING BOARD- THE SUB COUNCIL OF WRITING This committee is responsible for identifying the ways and means by which writing at Union can be strengthened including monitoring writing courses, recruiting additional writing courses, and designing guidelines for new writ- ing courses.

April 28, 1994, page 6 STUDENT FORUM Candidates for Vice President of Acade.mics lsca Beswich, David Levine, Antony Sinanis I sea Beswich: Hi, I'm Isca and I''m running for the position ofVice-President of Academics. Before I flood your mind with my qualifications and goals, l'd like to know if you, the voting constituents, know what the responsibilities ofthe VP of Academics are. It's no surprise that as I was getting the 200 sig- natures on my petition, there was one basic question people asked, \What exactly does the VP of Academics do?\ I explained that it is the VP'sjob to act as aliasion between various subcouncils (Academic Affairs, Faculty Re- view Board) and the Student Fo- rum, the professors and the stu ... dents. Because of the time com- mitment and dedication de- manded of this position, the elected VP should be committed and dedicated and have basic leadership skills. These are some of the qualities that I possess, which have been improved be- cause of extensive leadership training. Although I haven't been elected to any office on campus yet, I've attended Student Forum meetings on a regular basis since winter Term. I had no voting privileges, but !observed the gov- ernment carefully to become fa- miliar with its policies, and to de- cide which office would interest me the most. I have held elected offices in each of my four years of high school; however, it's not the number ofoffices one has held that is important,. it is the amount of time and effort invested that makes the difference. With my enthusiasm, and your innovative suggestions, we can change the position of VP of Academics to mean more to each Union College student. Remember, tomorrow when you vote: if you want the VP of Academics to mean something to you - to represent your interests - then vote for the person who has the enthusiasm and leadership ability to do just that : ISCA. David Levine David Levine: During my three years at Union College ,I have come to learn the true meaning of a liberal arts edu~ cation. Union truly does encour- age students to broaden their aca- demic horizons. It is my belief that Union's uniqueness is de- rived from the many disciplines of study available to students. As vice~president of Acadenl'ics I will try to increase the number of academic alternatives available to students, and I will combine my voice as editor-in-chief of The Concordiensis to infonn students and to solidify student input on important academic policies .. During my current two-year stint as editor-in-chief of The Concordiensi.Y, I have used my power to not only transfonn the student newspaper into a nation- ally renowned publication, but under my leadership the newspa- per has become the unofficial voice of the students of Union College. As you have noticed, our coverage focuses a lot more on students, our accomplish- ments, our organizations, and our concerns. During my first year as editor-in-chief, I was criticized · by several administrators, faculty members, and members of the Candidates·- V .P. Administration Elissa Hecker, Larry Lyons Elissa D. Hecker: My name is Elissa D. Hecker, and I would like to represent you as Vice President of Adminis- tration. I feel that I am ex- Elissa D. Hecker tremely qualified for this posi- tion. I currently serve on the committee run by this year's V .P ., and by working closely with her, I have the understand- ing as to the amount of work and commitment that this job re- quires. I know that I will be able to serve in a responsible man- ner. Members ofthejuniorclass recently voted for me to repre- sent them as a member on Stu- dent Forum, and such a position contributes to my knowledge and experience ofthejob ofV.P. of Administration. During my three years at Union, I have been involved with many activities campus-wide, and among those I have held numerous leadership positions. I intend to devote my efforts into securing the most positive benefits for this campus as a whole, and would work to make sure that all decisions and actions would represent the best interests of the student popula- tion. Larry Lyons: Hello boys and girls. Let me introduce myself. My name is Larry Lyons and I'm currently a sophomore here at Union. I'm running for the position of Vice- president for Administration of the SGA and I'd really appreci- ate it if you voted for me. What exactly does the Vice- president for AdiJlinistration do? Well, to quote the Union College Student Handbook, \the princi- pal responsibility of the vice president for administration of the SGA shall be the general ad- ministration of student activities and organizations, including Stu- dent Forum committees.\ I feel that I could definitely perform any of the duties that define this position. When it comes to leg- islation and decision making, I feel that I am totally unbiased. I have no prejudices towards or against any aspect of campus life. Furthermore, since this position would be my sole responsibility next year, besides schoolwork of course, I could dedicate as much time as necessary. Therefore, I believe voting for me would be your best decision. But more importantly, just take out two minutes of your time and vote. I recently learned approxi- mately how many students ac- tually voted last year. The numbers aren't only low; they're pathetic. Its really not too difficult. So after your done checking your mail in the Col- lege Center. spend the next Larry Lyons couple of minutes checking off a few names on a sheet of pa- per. I wish the best of luck to my opponent. Thank you and have a good day. And once again, be sure to vote. Student Forum for addressing is- sues which they believed were too sensitive to be discussed on this c~pus. When Dining Services imple- mented the Validine system in a fashion which most students were . enraged over, The Concordiensis was the first student organization . to attack the new policies. We did not give up on the issue, and when Dining Services inexplicably cut their hours at the· beginning of winter tenn, we got to the bottom of the issue and reported to stu- dents in subsequent weeks what the administration was hiding from them. As vice-president of Academics, and as a member of the Student Forum, I can assure you the students will be infotmed .of everything that happens. We have greatly increased the multicultural awareness of the Union College community. We have promoted events included in African-American History Month, Latino Heritage Month, Asian Awareness Week, and Gay Awareness Week. Moreover, our coverage of campus events has in- creased because I am a very ac- cessible person who never avoids other students, faculty members, or administrators. The adminis- tration is much more open with the newspaper, and henceforth the student body. This is because we approach every news article in an unbiased fashion which lets stu- dents make their own decisions on the issues discussed. As vice-president of Academ- ics I will work with the students, the faculty, and the administra- tion. I have been one of the most involved campus leaders over the past two years in addition to be- ing a student who is extremely well-respected by members ofthe faculty and administration for my academic pursuits. Every Tues- day I do not sleep just to make sure that the students of this school are informed. If elected, I will continue to work diligently on behalf of the student body. For the bicentennial, we need strong campus leaders. Vote for a proven campus leader whose only agenda has been, and will continue to be, serving the students of Union College. Vote for David Levine for vice- president of Academics, because Academics are anything but aca- demic. Antony Sinanis My name is ANTONY SINANIS, ·and I am running for VICE PRESIDENT of ACA· DEMICS. A lot of people may be asking what the V .P. of Aca- demics does;. Well pretty much it is self-explanitory: he/she deals with any and all academic issues involving students and adminis- tration here at Union. Everytbing from the approval of new courses to the revision of old ones. If I am elected, I 'Yill attempt to get more courses offered, more time slots for courses, and: more sec- tions of the same courses. For example, I will try to get more courses offered during the 11:30 to 1 :20 time slot on Tuesdays and Thursdays. Many students can't take a I :30 on TITH because it conflicts with lab, while others won't take a 9:30 because it is to early. Thus, by offering more classes at 11 :30 there will be a comprimise that will create more opportunities for students. An~ other area on which I, as V.P. Academics, will focus is the en- forcement of a policy that will promote Academic Honesty. We need a policy to promote higher academic achievement without comprimising our standards. h1 addition to these goals, I have served on the Student Fo- rum for one year, as V.P. of the Sophomore class, which gives me experience with the system and how it works. I have also worked closely with the present V.P. of Academics giving me the oppor- tunity to grasp what is invovled in being Vice President of Aca- demics. Thus, if you vote for me, ANTONY SINANIS, I will work for you as VICE PRESIDENT of ACADEMICS. The Concordiensis would like to remind everyone that your vote counts. Vote on Friday, April 29th in the College Center Atrium, for the positions of President, and Vice President of Academics, Vice President Administration, Vice President of Finance, and Junior Trustee.

\ STUDENT FORUM April 28, 1994, page 7 Candidates for Junior Trustee Seth Brown: . My name is Seth Brown ~d I . aDi'numing for Student R;epresen .. t~tive to the Board of Trustees. In this <~apaci~ 1 will not only sit on the Board of Trustees, but I will have a vote. this makes this po~ sition extremely important. The Trustees make the final decision on everything oil campus, most importantly the budget. Further .. more, a Trustee has the ability to present'the sentiment of the Fo- rum and the student body to the administration. l feel that I am someone who can best represent the interests of students on this campus. I think that Union is a great school but not without its faults. Changes need to be made. For instance, did you know that only a portion of the money which you pay for food actually goes to din- ing services? Did you know that residence life fines do not go di- rectly back to residence life in or- der to fix up the donns? Did you know othat we are one of the last highly selective colleges to imple- ment an Africana Studies Pro- gram? These are just a few of the issues that I will be addressing if elected to this position. I am currently completing my second year on the Student Fo- rum. Last year I was class Presi- dent, and this year I am Student Forum Secretary. This has kept me very in touch with how the ad- ministration, in addition to the · Forum operates. In my positions I have had numerous meetings with the administration in the past · two years. I am also on two Stu- dent Forum Committees: The Speakers Forum, which chooses various speakers to come to cam~ pus and the. Standing on Students Committee. I am fmishing mY tenn as student chair on the Standing on Students Committee. On this committee I have worked with students, fac- ulty. and. administration to look into the academic records of stu- dents in order decide how to award or punish ·those students who have either excelled or done poorly. This has given mea bet- ter understanding. of academics at Union. Being in a fraternity, I am also sition. Do you want representa- tion? If the answers is yes, vote for Seth Brown on Friday. here at Union does not fix prob- lems with dining or social policy, that is the administration's job. Rather, the trustees set a direction in which they feel Union should be head- ing, and make recommenda· tions consistent with this direc- tion. aware of the issues which the Greeks face on this cam- pus. Furthermore, being a Resident Assistant I am also very in tune with the issues which the independents face, In addition to being a Resident Assis~ tant, I am also a Gatekeeper and a Student Ambassa- dor .. This has given me the opportunity Liza Korber Geremie Camara I feel that the student body at Union shoul-d have a say in the direction in which Union is moving, and that is why I am run- ning for Junior Trustee. Through my ex- perience with various clubs and committees, I am confident that I have the ability to repre- sent our student body to the Board of Trust- ees. I promise to be active and vo- cal in my ap- to see what attracts or turns students away from Union. I plan to take this knowledge and ap- ply it to the Trustee position. Being Head of a dining facility (the Kosher Kitchen) has also kept me in touch with the \din- ing services di- lemma\ and from thos~ of you who have read the paper Richard Fuerst Seth Brown or my petitions, I have not been passive. I am also an officer on the Rugby team. In this position I have become well aware of the importance of inter- collegiate athletics at Union. Another committee which I have been active on is the Campus Ac- tion Committee. This committee is a group of faculty and students who have taken it upon them- selves to try to change what we think is wrong with Union. One big issue for this committee has been eying to diversify the Union College curriculum. ' As you can see, through my various committees and organi- zations I can represent a large portion of the student body. In addition, I have gained the expe- rience necessary to tackle this po- Geremie Camara Contrary to popular belief, stu- dents at Union College have the ability to change the community in which we all live. There are too many instances in which stu- dents are unhappy with current policies, but do nothing about it. I am not naively .saying that the student body can change every- thing that it is not pleased with. Nor am I saying that \chang~\ is the best method towards a better Union. If we really want to have a say in the policies that effect our daily lives, we should get in- volved before they are made, not complain about them aftetward. It is for this reason that the posi- tion of student trustee is so im- portant. The Board of Trustees proach, and to be open to ideas from anyone. When you vote for Junior Trustee, keep in mind not only who you think is the best qualified candidate, but also who you think will best rep- resent Union. Vote Geremie Camara. Rich Fuerst: TO: All Union College under- graduates I am seeking your support this week to be named as student rep- resentative to the Board of Trust- ees. As Union College Sopho- more Class President my major priority is to reflect the interests and concerns of our students. And, my commitment to you is to serve as your representative and spokesperson with the Board of Trustees. One of my key priorities is to liaison with the Board and the stu- dent body to help improve all as- pects of campus life. For in- stance, although I think Union students do a commendable job with community service activi .. ties, I believe we need to gener- ate more involvement and com- mitment by students with pro- grams that support the needs of the larger community. We have an opportunity to improve the image of Union College as not only a school offering outstand- ing academic opportunity, but as a vital participant to the welfare of the greater Schenectady area. Our challenges and opportuni- ties should be and can be ad- dressedthrough a willing, knowl- edgeable, and committed repre- sentative who, as a life long resi- dent, knows this community. I ask for your support and vote to- morrow and am available to ad- dress questions or concerns you have. PLEASE VOTE 'RICH FUERST' as your representative to the Board of Truste~s! Liza Korber: My name is Liza Korber and I am actively seeking the position of Junior Trustee. Both my aca- demic and activity involvement demonstrate my devotion to Union College. The student voice is heard by the administration through the two stud.ents who serve on the Board of Trustees. It has become my primary ambi- tion to be one ofthose students. I am currently serving on the Committee on Student Standing and was recently elected to the of- fice of Vice President of Finance for my fraternity. Both of these responsibilities indicate my com- mitment and respect for Union. My strengths are in my ability to communicate efficiently to get objectives accomplished. Given the opportunity to serve on the Student Forum I will represent the student body energetically and effectively. Vote Korber for Jun- ior Trustee. Candidate for Student Forum President On July 21, 1969, the world watched expectantly as Neil Armstrong prepared to set foot on ~e moon's surface. In the span of a moment, the Astronaut stepped from the security of the Apollo module onto an uncharted planet, full of new questions, new . surprises; and new experiences. In retrospect, Annstrong had in .. deed. taken a small step for man and a mammoth leap for mankind. .Less than a century befor~, Chester Alan Arthur, a Union graduate, became the nation's 21st President. Arthur was serv- ing as Vice-President, when, in September; 1881, President Garfield died as a result of wounds received in an assassina- tion attempt sev~ral months ear- lier. Arthur assumed the Presi- dency and served for the remain- der of Garfield's term. During Arthur's tenure, he did much to Nathan Coffin promote both the country and no, doubt, Union's reputation. This is not intended to be a his- tory lesson. Rather, I cite these individuals because of the wis- dom that their stories impart. Both figures reached significant goals devoid of opposition. No one was waiting on the moon to prevent Neil Annstrong's first step. Likewise, Chester Arthur was obligated to assume the Presidency; no one opposed him. You, the student body of Union College, wili find only one name on tomorrow's ballot for the of- fice ofStudent Forum President: Nate Coffin. I run unopposed, but this does not detract from the significance of the goals that I wish to work with the Student Forum in achieving. Some of you may recall last years elections, during which you elected me to the office of Junior Class Representative. At the time, I touted the merit of 'leav- ing everything a little better than I found it.' It is not my intention to look back on my years at Union and fondly recall how I personally ac- complished this goal. Rather, I would hope that next year's stu• dent body and the elected Forum will strive to promote an environ- ment in which all members ofthis community, from the faculty and administration, to elected govern- ment and student organizations, make the improvement of Union a priority. Improvement means many things. Improvement means cultural diversity. Im- provement means academic stan- dards. Improvement means stu- dent activism. It means increased involvement in student govern- ment. It means social alternatives. It means addressing the needs of all members ofthe Union commu- nity equally and providing a ve- hicle for the voicing of those needs. Finally, improvement means fostering a spirit of coop- eration on both the student and administrative levels, something this campus desperately needs. If you wish to improve this place, it will help you to improve in return. You can bank on that. I respectfully request two favors from you, the student body. First, support Nate Coffin tomorrow by casting your vote. Second, sup- port Union in the future by get- ting involved, staying involved, and cooperating to make this col- lege a better place. Why should you vote? The Future of Union College lies in the hands of students. Cast Away.

April 28, 1994, page 8 Do You Care About Union? Put Up or ·shut Up U nion students have been accused by some Schenectady residents of not caring about the city and its future. · Although it is true that many students wiU not live in. Schenectady after they graduate, some students do have general concerns about the future well-being of Union College. The piece of paper seniors receive upon graduation, known to most . · as a degree, fluctuates in value with Union's reputation. President Hull is right when he says, \In order for Union to · thrive, Schenectady must bloom.\ When students say that their dedication to improving Union is evident by their extracurricular involvements, they are only partially correct. While students who are active members of the CoHege community through Union's extracurricular activities do enhance campus life, they are thinking parochially if they do not understand why Union students' involvement in . rebuilding Schenectady is imperative. While the Schenectady 2000 Plan will not make the city an ideal'college town' it will have an immediate impact on how · students themselves view Schenectady. Instead of telling interested students that Schenectady is an 'eye soar', a student body which is more active in the revitalization plan are more likely to tell high school students that Schenectady is an up- and-coming city. Furthermore, students who are excited about fulfilling their philanthropic responsibilities are more likely to focus on their involvement in Schenectady 2000 as a positive aspect of their Union education. If a strong relationship is built · between Schenectady and Union, future students are more likely to be involved. May 7 will be a telling day in this hypothesis concerning the importance of student involvement with Schenectady 2000. An abysmal turnout to the Vale Park cleanup wilJ probably indicate that the likelihood of future student involvement is slim. Simply put, this project needs interest from the start (See Page 13). To .students, faculty members, and administrators : How much do you care about Union and its future? If some of you care as much as you claim to care, make it your business to show up and lend a hand foiat least part of the day. Let$chenectady know that Union students want to help. W~~·u be wa~ching. David Levine Etlitor-in:.chief Extcutive Editor . News Editor Features Editors Arts Editor Sports Editors Copy Editor Photo Editor World News Editor Opinions Editor Science & Health Editors Business Editor Advertising Editors Associate Sports Editors Computer Manager P;hotographers ~··lf~~tfi~rR:e:fnoids ··Edi/(Jr~J'n.,Chicif. . ,., -._. -:-. ;_--:~. --·: {' ~:--'- ·-: • ';.. •• ·:. :--·-. -. c •• ·..,._ ---·· •• · · ttsa Lemei ·. Caroline Paine . Erin O'Neit; Alexi~·teist . Su?iQ!lne Robinson Joe Saltzbart Pagan La Corte Diana Sedita Josh Haines Craig Greenberg . ... Sarah Evans Andy Salama, Kenny Lee Alex Shapiro Fran Goldstein Sharon Smith Rob Malfetano Mike Leiiling; Matt Grabowski Brett Saunders Scott Druckemiller> Emily Scht'i(ir. Jeremy Smith, Michele Roseman, Jen ~erens, Laurel Ruma Staff: Elizabeth De Koven, A· Je1(:lU1<tfa:!~~~~!it;, John Huang, ~ Pam Lin~ ~ena Navani; Larry · R<>senbaum, Bilty: oJ 1~c,;~a~ t1~e Wheel~r ··· . ' ·::_·---:'?.:·;:. • . •.· -· .. '{ .. TJfe C(Jncordieh$ismei~t$~~vei OP-ED OPINIONS Honesty Comes From Within by Sarah R. Evans Opinions Editor Over the past few weeks, vari- ous members of the Union com- munity, both faculty and students, have written letters to the editor about how to solve the problem of academic dishonesty. Last week, the student representatives of the Academic Affairs Council presented one of their solutions toward solving the problem of themselves in the long run but they are also hurting the students who are honest and work hard for the grades that they earn. It is im- possible to rid the campus of all the chronic cheaters because they will never come to the realization that what they are doing is wrong. It is easier to address the prob- lem of the casual cheater, the stu- dent who cheats occasionally or who is not quite sure what activi- ties fall under the category of aca~ for future use by a younger gen- eration of students as ch.eating, some do not. Once the Academic Affairs Council defines what is considered cheating at Union, they can work on other methods to solve the problem of cheating. Many students might be inad- vertently cheating and not even know it. With a clear definition of what actions constitute cheat- ing, many students who did not realize that they were cheating academic dishon- esty on this cam- pus. Their solution was that the pro- fessors of this col- lege should do a better job at moni- toring the students during exams and Many students might b.e inadvertently .. cheati~g [without intending harm] might stop. Pro- fessors chang- ing their testing formats and not using the sante exam tenn after term would help, but the use other methods to limit the possibilities for cheating. This is not the right method to curb aca- demic dishonesty. The job of the professor is not to police students to do all of their work honestly. Rather, it is the job of the professor to teach the stu- dents and challenge them to their best ·for the love of learning. If a professor wanted to spend all of his or her time policing students and thinking up new and creative ways to eliminate the urge to cheat, they would have become academic police. Instead, as Pro- fessor Barbanel said in the first letter, professors enter academia because they love learning and want to share their love of learn- ing with others. For many reasons, honest stu- dents do all of their work. Most students do not cheat on an as- signments, exams or on a paper out of the fear of feeling guilty. One of the most important rea- sons why honest students do not cheat, is that they take pride in their work when it is good and they are ashamed when they do not present their best work. The desire to do one's own work has to come from within one's self. No matter how diffi- cult the faculty think that they are making it to cheat, the chronic cheaters will always create more elaborate schemes to cheat The chronic cheater does not realize that he or she is not only hurting demic dishonesty. In order to address the prob- lem of academic dishonesty, the campus and the Academic Af- fairs Council first has to address what constitutes cheating. Cheat- ing means som~thing differentto everybody.~oststudentsvvould agree that the most blatant forms of cheating occur when the stu- dent brings a cheaf sheet into an exam or the student uses another student's paper and hands it in ~s one's own work. Other forms of cheating are not as widely recog- nized. Some students consider that working in a group on prob- lem set that they are going to be graded is considered cheating, while others do not. Some con- sider filing old tests and papers II Letters Must Be Submitted o.n High l)ensity Disks. problem lies Il.Qt with. the professors, but :with the students. Students claim that an honor code would help. eliminate the problem of cheating, but Union students are not ready for this, yet. At this· point in time, it would not do the schol)l any good to implement an honor code, at this point in time, because most stu- dents would not take an honor code, seriously. Most students would sign an oath and then go home and continue practicing their methods of cheating. The Academic Affairs Council should focus on defining· what cheating is and raising the pride students take in their work so that cheating is not as widespread. NO EXCEPTIONS!! A To I der wa: 32: reu of priJ ere des me wit ch1 an I'll thi: abl j wa Dl!l Fri beJ lea ist1 anc vic de1 of as letl ro< qu tra thi t~ pl€ tes un ph Ut w thl fac It to ad as on \' in de co or thl 0\l da

April 28, 1994, page 9 LETTERS ''Still Just Plain Old Professor of English\ ety of excused absences. signed to the last day, only 18 ing adjustment). This would, of he advised me. And to my ex- Why was I \insubordinate\? phone calls, divided among 'four course, affect my earnings for ev- . planation ofthe reasons for hav- To the Editors: Lastweek'sletterfromthe stu- 1. As I state above; I have administrators, at 11:00 P.M. ery year I continued in Union's ing done what I did, he replied, dent representatives to the AAC never broken an iron rule on the Thursday night or on Friday mom- employ. \Why of the 18 faculty members was an ironic dart to the .heart.ln security of an exam. When stu- ing, would have provided an op- The pronouncement struck me with an exam that Friday, were 32 years of teaching, I have never dents have said, \But you do portunity to explain the problems as completely inappropriate (espe- you the only one who couldn't reused an exam, and the security trust me, don't you?\ I have told with the ukas~, and to arrive at a dally in light of his inaction in re- go along?'' (Ponder the implica- of an examination bas been a them that I do not want trust to solution. Moreover, the imposition sponse to a history of major pro- tions of THAT one, oh ye stu,. prime priority .1 don't deserve any be an issue. I never want to leave of an \honor code\ by Underwood cedural violations which had done dents in Freshman Preceptorial!) credit· for that, but neither do I room for the suspicion that there exceeded the bounds of his author- me injury). I immediately stated, So where do we stand now? deservetohavetheCollege \fine\ might have been a breach. In ad- ity. (Some of us, believing that calmly but firmly, that I would Nothing since I made my de- me thousands of dollars, or to clition, I had just learned that a honor is not switched on and off seek legal remedy if he persisted. cision on Examination Friday withdraw an offer of an endowed professor in another department with a written statement, object to Subsequently, I restated my in ten- has altered my view that I acted chair. Lend • . , . · · the concept. And tions in a letter, adding that his properly in the discharge of my an ear and Wetner s only reply was a need I remind you implicituseofanacademichonor duties.Irecognize,now,that the I'll rime you ·. b. \Y b d· . \ that the Annapolis to enforce docility on the part ofa course I followed may have this improb.. repeated C.· ·ant, a etta · 0 It. violations of the faculty member now constrained caused problems in two cases able tale. · . · · · · . · · · · honor code, much in me, in the interest ·of academic later before .the Committee on As most of you know, there had discovered six incidents of the news the same week, under- freedom, to accept the chair. Academic Standing. (And per- was a power failure on Thursday plagiarism .. Further, the deport- score the weakness of the scheme?) I heard from Underwood last haps I might have found a dif- night of examination week. On ment of this particular class had After administering the exam, I week. Not only was he withdraw- ferent solution if an administra- Friday, a bit more than an hour been rude ,rather like that of a informed the Registrar of my ac- ing the offer of the chair but he tor had been courteous enough before my 1:00 P.M. exam, I high school class and there had tion, not as an act of bravado, but had also conferred with the FRB to call me before the exam.) But learned that President Hull, Reg- been severalattempts to wheedle simply to clarify the reason for the about the salary reduction. (The in years past, instructors have istrar Wolf, and Deans Weiner illegitimate information about large number oflncompletes. FRB behaves as Union's version been known to neglect to tum in and Underwood had met the pre- the test from me. --------,;;.._-------......:.....---------- of the Judenrat. grades before the CAS met and vious night and decided that stu- This was not ex- I had just learned that a One might think no salary was withheld in pen- dents would be given the choice actly a situation in pro.e.eSSOr 10 • another dep.artment thatacammittee alty. Moreover, if the CAS was of taking the examination either. which my fears of II advertised as ex- in doubt about a particular as scheduled or on Saturday. A cheating would bad diSCOVered SiX incidentS of ercising peer re- student's performance in my letter, left on the desk in the exam evanesce like view as a guar- course, why did no one bother room, further instructed (notre- morning dew. plagiarism. antee against ad- to inquire? (In the only case in quested) me to read the adminis- 2. To have com- ministrative au- which I now know the student's trative order aloud to students: posed a different Well into the Spring term, tocracy would at least notify a identity, she was in no jeopardy this directed those who chose to test for Saturday was impracti- Underwood summoned me to his member of the faculty of its ac- at all.) take the test on Friday to sign a cal. It usually takes about three office. Our dean is not noted for tions or, radical thought, even al- Underwood claims that he is pledge agreeing notto discuss the hours to write an exam. Time moving with dispatch, and this low a faculty member to present only acting in the best interest of test with those who chose to wait constraints on submission of meetingfollowed the pattern. Hop- his side of the case. But such dan- the student as he sees it. But isn't until Saturday. I immediately grades, coupled with the time it ing to expedite business, I gerous ideas find no place in our that exactly what I was doing? phoned Underwood to protest. takes for me to read the more broached my sunnise as to the pur- increasingly oligarchical gover- Of course it would have been Underwood was not in, but than 30 tests, weighed heavily pose of the meet- --------------------- easier to \go Weiner later called. After saying against obeying th.e ing. We had a Then he magisterially, announced along,\ to not that I found the manner in which administration's directive. In ad- pleasant chat. make waves, faculty were infonned offensive, dition, there is an obviousprob- Then he magiste- that he was withdrawing his offer to choose the I triedto explain my objections lerninWritirtgmultipledifferent rially announced of the Washingt· on Irving Chair. easiest path to the arrangements made by the tests for the same course and I that he was with- .,_ andjustcollect administration without so much wasalreadycommittedtogiving drawing his offer a pay check. as a courtesy phone call. Weiner's three separate finals in that one of the Washington Irving Chair. nance.) But isn't that precisely what the only reply was a repeated ch~t, course. But, acknowledging that I had pre- Profoundly upset by the threat student representatives are call- \Ya betta. do it.~' ·Moments later, 3. The administration, I be- viously refused the \honor and and by the menace to professional ing upon faculty NOT to do? in response to the exigency of a lieve, acted with greatpresump- thus, apparently, recognizing that discretion, I sought President decision, I told the students they tuousness in intruding into this this punishment would not be suf- HuWs views on the imbroglio. Did could take the exam as scheduled traditional faculty preserve. IF ficiently severe, he added that he I expect a Rudyard Kipling-like or at the end of the first week of none of those instructors sched- would consult with the Faculty affinnation of principle? What I the new tenn, which I had previ- uled to give an exani on Friday Review Board about denying me heard (in the friendliest tenns, I ously designated as the make-up had made other arrangements my across-the-board annual fac- hasten to add) was more like Frank Gado Still just plain old Professor of English date for students who had a vari- upon learning they had been as- ulty raise (virtually a cost-of-liv- Bobby McFerrin. Try to be happy, Editorials, Letters & Disclaimers Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP-ED Page and must be received by 5 p.m. the Tuesday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College coinmunity. Final Decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed, although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion. of the editorial board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and no one member in particular. Any opinion columns reflect the opinions of the writers, and not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial Board. Advertisements appearing in The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. · The Concordiensis is published Eight Thursdays a term by the students of Union College. It is funded in part by the Student Activities Fee. The Concordiensis, copyright 1993, all rights reserved. Box 2577, College Center, Union College, Schenectady; NY 12308. Telephone (518) 388-6155. The Concordiensis is published by The Leader Herald, 8-10 East Fulton Street; Gloversville~ New York 12078. The Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP), National Student News Service, King Syndicates. SUBMISSIONS : All submissions are due the Tuesday before publication at 4 p.m. if they are submitted on either Macintosh Microsoft Word disks, or MS- · Dos Microsoft Word or Wordperfect disks. Otherwise all submissions are due Monday by 4 p.m. in the drop box outside of The Concordiensis office on the third floor of the College Center. STILL ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR FALL 1994! ton on lnternshi s • Politics and ~onal Relations • AdvertisingiMarlctingll'ublic Rl:lations • Management, Fhwlce, asul. Economics • The Media:JolliD2iism, :Broubsting. md Pilm • European Economy and Politics in t1ic 1990s • The Arts/Architeetule •Ptmw • Psychology and Social Policy Program includes sixteen semester-hour~ credits, nine-week full-time InternShip, apartment housing, and COUISework taught by British fiu:ulLy. Offered &11. spring, and summer semestcn. lntemational Pro5rams F« tcmpkteproltQ/11 Utfomtatl«t, CiJllor write: Boston Univer~ity, Division of Intem~al ProJfl'llls, 232 Bay Slate Road, Box NL, Boston. MA 02215 • 617/353-9888 .1o .,..,'fi\'W!ll __

LETTERS Apri128, 1994, p~ge 10 Write In Thor Benander For Student Forum President Tired oftlte System? Bored with Union? Exhausted by the Same Routine? Better Things are Within Your Reach! To the Editor, There are always times when there is a necessity for changes, but no one to begin them. Obvi- ously, there are ups and downs to every establishment, and Union is no different in this regard, but it is important to know what should be maintained and what should be altered. Luckily. the studetlt body has a favorable rapport with the ad- ministration. This fact can act as a conduit for positive change. The way I see it, any college ex- perience can be divided into three categories, Academic, Athletic, and Extra Curricular. In the Academic category, there are concerns over the amount of courses offered. How many times have you been shut out of a course that you needed or wanted to get into? There are lingering questions about expand- ing the curriculum, opening courses in a field like communi- cations, and offering credit for community projects like teaching grade school and various fonns of social work. I am a proponent ofall of these programs. On the Athletic level, .progress must continue to be made in up- grading the workout equipment in Alumni Gym, so students aren't forced to pay large amounts just to stay healthy. The intramural program should be maintained and commended for offering non- varsity athletes the ability to play enjoyable sports on a competitive level. Also the gym and field house shmdd introduce expanded hours for students with busier schedules. The Ex:tra Curricular category is the most important of the three because it dictates the mood of the college. It's common to overhear people complaining about the school. This is because of the lack of acceptance that seems inbred in our student body. Once a fresh- man arrives at Union, he or she is immediately routed into some type of group, whether it be a so- cial or an academic one. Some women dress a certain way. so Constructive Criticism? To the Editor, When I joined The Concordi- ensis this past winter, I knew that it would take up a large part of my time, but I was more than will- ing. Everyone on the staff is very dedicated to publishing a news- paper for the students of Union College and I wanted to be a part of it. So what exactly is the point of this editorial? I want the college community to realize how hard the Concordy staff works to prepare the news- paper for you. Every Monday and Tuesday, the editors of the paper stay up as late as four o'clock in the morning and, most ofthe time, all night. Remember also, that we are students just like you who have 8:45 ain classes and a lot of school work. It is very disheartening to hear that The Concordiensis \sucks that the staff writes bad articles, and that the editing of the paper is awful. People have actually ap- proached me to say how bad they think the newspaperis. When, as calmly as possible, I ask how they think the paper can improve, and what types of articles they would like to see, the standard response is, \I don't know. It just sucks.\ These people claim they are giv- ing the Concordy \constructive criticism,\ when in reality they are just criticizing. Mally people may not see the difference. The New Webster's Comprehensive Dictionary of the English Language defines criti- cism as the art of judging merit; a spoken or written judgment con- cerning some matter resting on opinion; censure, unfavorable comment. This is all well and good, however constructive criti- cism is when one actually tries to help . and aid in the improvement .. ,notjust expressing what is wrong. I guess it is a good thing these people do not work for the paper. For if they did, the writ- ing and editing would not be up to par, since they do not have a proper command of the English language. Contrary to belief, it is not only the students who offer criticism, but also members of the faculty. Have any of you ever worked in- credibly hard on a paper or project, are proud ofit and then it is \bashed\ by your peers? How did that make you feel? If my in- stincts are correct, you probably felt upset at first, and then very angry and frustrated. Well, this is a weekly pattern for those of us on the Concordy staff. What we need is more support from the college community ... both from the students and fac- ulty. For without this support the newspaper will not be able to fully uphold the integrity of the college. Please do not view this editorial as one of a martyr. This is simply a request for more re- spect and to recognize the hard work of 1he Concordiensis staff. The Concordiensis welcomes new writers and would be happy to hear your comments. Sincerely, Diana Sedita ('97) Copy Editor . ''' Help, Help, Help ... U pperclass Needs Help. 12 Hours a Week Evenings they are funnelled into a particu- lar sorority, and ,learn to integrate the personality of that group. Others find that they are in a raa cial minority, so they feel more comfortable hanging out with the members of a certain club, who can relate to their own experience. Still more find that their varsity sport is full of the type of people that they like, so they spend all their time with them, both on the field and off. All of this is natural, and won- derful. Much of what one remem- bers about their college experi- ence is their friends. The prob- lem lies in the lack of communi- cation between these groups. We need to learn to accept people for what they are, not how they're labeled. We need to change the system, and foster new ties be- tween whites and students of color, between the student body and the faculty, between women and men. Let's demand more from our school. Let's demand more from our professors. We don't need the administration to be our wet nurse, we need them to be our advisors- on a non-con~ descending level. Let's have more vendors, like the guys who sell posters outside the college center. Let's hire more speakers and more bands. Let's open up our minds and aim higher than we are. When people ask me where I go to school, I'm sick of them not having ever heard ofit. I want to graduate from a college that I'm proud of, not a place where I slinked by, only doing as much as I had to. I have had plenty ofexperience ·running organizations at Union, and what became apparent was that only in a position like this one, President of the Student Fo- rum, can. substantial changes be made. It is through this position that I could make the greatest con- tribution. I know the value of a broad college experience. I like to rage as much as the next per- son. I also like to do well aca- demica:lly and participate in ath- letics on both a Varsity and intra- mural level. Ioffermycandidacy not to round out my resume, but to actually .mak~;: a difference in the quality of life at this school. Because ofmy .position, I would be a stalwart bridge between the ~tudent body and the administra- tion. I can make them understand how we feel about aspects of the college, and try to .~xplain to you why they make their decisions. In the balance, we can achieve a higher level of mutual apprecia .. tion. We're lucky to have the flex- ibility to change our school for the better. Let's build some school spirit. Let's take some pride in what we have, and have some vi- sion as to what we can be. My name won't appear ori the ballot for President of the Student Fo- rum, but there will be a blank line where you can write it in. Do it, and start improving Union from the ground up, College is sup- posed to be one of the best times of your life. With your help, we can make it so. Sincerely, Thor Benander TESOL training· in PARIS ..• and the world is your classroom! At AUP you get the chance to acquire English-language teach- ing skills and classroom teaching experience in a real-life foreign- language environment: PARIS. AUP' s· TESOL Certificate Program features: + intensive daytime classes (12 weeks, Sept.-Dec. 1994) .. + techniques & practice teaching,· supervised by a master teacher + 6 undergraduate credits in linguistics & methodologies . + accommodations in central Paris, arranged through the University AUP,.s TESOL Certifica.te Program prepares you in 4 months to enter the field of English teaching abroad. AndwithaTESOL Certificc:lfe yo-u can teach Engl'ish- in universities, ·language schools artd in . the corporate sector - around the world. Year after year 1 our graduates enioyexcellent iob place· ment prospects. Our American•trairiedfaculty · are 'El T specialists with MA a·nd PhD· degrees in the field. IJ A 1 b c~ v 0 t] T ri 1 t \l\ d p: tl 1 ( 1 r ( ( ( (

April 28, 1994, page 11 LETTERS CCiJlye <ll.onrnrbiensis Students Need To Address The Problem Of Academic Dishonesty Amongst Themselves In an attempt to encourag~ dialogue regarding academic ho~esty among m.embe~ of the college community, the Academic Affai:rs Subcouncil on Academic Honesty and Practiceba.s arranged a series ofletters to be pu~lished in Concordiensis. . . . These letters will present differing perspectives on the iS~Jie of acad'emic boJlesty. Includ·ed in this series will be two letters addressed to students, with views coming from both ''sides\. I•• addition, we hope to include a letter from the college's lawyer commenting on a :recent case that was handled in court. It is our hope that these letters will offer a variety of viewpoints to which students and fa~ulty can respond. Althougbtbeseletters will appear in consecutive issues ofConcordiensis, they were composed concurrently and a.re ·not .meant to serve as responses to one another. We hope those responses will come from you. This is the fourth lett~r in this series. . . . To the Editor: .For the last three weeks, a se- ries ·of letters have appean;d in The Concordiensis to infol1il the UnionCollege commm1ity of the widespread problem of academic dishonesty. Although some of the previous letters have dealt with the behavior of faculty members and the role they play in promot- ing academic dishenesty, it is our responsibility for their own ac- tions and to stop cheating. There- fore, the student representatives on the Academic Affairs Council and the. Sub-Council on Aca- demic Honesty and Practice, are writing to ask our p.eers to help us put an end to aU instances of academic dishonesty at Union. As students, we ate tired. of watfhing our peers limit their potential, which is exactly what they do when they engage in dis- honest behavior. It is imperative to understand when a student cheats he or she does not .benefit. Instead, the student sends a strong signal to the faculty and his or her fellow peers. Cheating only re- flects our·perception ofourselves. Wh~m we use work other than our oWt:t, we are telling the other members of the college commu-· nity we think very littleofour-Qwti magic solution to solve the cheat- intelligence. Our actions en~our-. ing epidemic. at Union, but we do age them to believe we have no . have faith in the ability of our fel- faith in what we are capable of ac- · low peers to help· find a solution. complishing. AU we are asking is that those stu- We are sure right about how dents who do not cheat to exam- many ofour peers who cheat are inewhatmotivates their honest be- saying to themselves \So what? havior, so we can address the stu- Why should I care about what the dents who do cheat and convince faculty and other students here them cheating is by no means ben- think about my intellingence and eficial to them. Cheating will not capability,\ And that's the prob- only affect their performance here, I em. How can anyone make a stu- but will also affect how they act dent have more pride in their work as individuals for the duration of and in themselves, thereby con- their lives. If we cheat here, then vincing them not to cheat? We .do we will probably be tempted to in not know. We do not have any the future: in the workplace, in our marriages and with our children. Therefore, on behalf of con- cerned students, we are asking our peers to recognize that there is indeed a problem with aca- demic honesty at Union, and to begin to say to each other, \We do not tolerate cheating.\ Once these two things have been ac- complished, we can then begin to work together with faculty members to bring about a change and make Union a more \honest\ place. Respectfully submitted, Student Representatives of the Academic Affairs Council Springfest: Bribery and Beer Mohammad A. Omar Me·morial Tree Planting To the Editor On April 21 at 7:00 P.M. in the College Center~ there was a meet- ing for all club officials. lLw(\s run by a member ofthe Finance Committee and a member of the Social Affairs Committee (yes we dohav.eoneofthose). Well ... the club officials were told that in order to be considered for a bud- get next year, they must partici- pate in Winterfest or Springfest. We were told that participation meant either setting up a booth of some sort, or donating extra money from our budget that we might riot end ·up .spending (acdo- nation seemed to he the more im- portant of the two). I guess at a school like Union where every- one isn't always so eager to par- ticipate, this ''bribe-type\ idea isn't so bad .. Volunteer not be- cause you want to, but because The Concordiensis is looking for dedicated people to work as members of the Advertising Staff. The job is unique because students can create their own you have to? After I .got over the initial shock of the bribe, I didn't mind the ideaefpanicipating. The Fi- · nance Committee gave out a lot of money this year,. and they were asking for our help. The Chair . of the Social Affairs Committee explained that many of the events · would cost a lot of money and . proceeded to give us the run . down of the weekend ... concerts, comedians, a beertasting contest, · vendors, etc... Wait a minute! · A beer tasting contest? We were told that the beer would costal- most $500.00. So on this one weekend of social altematives Dear Editor, At long last, the Mohammad A. Omar Memorial Tree is scheduled . ., to arrive and be planted on Thurs- day, April 28, in back of the Idol and near Science and Engineer- ing. The tree, a Pinus Griffithii, is unique in that it is indigenous to the Middle East and Afghani- stan, Mohammad's home land. All are encourgaed to stop by to see another geat addition of tree species to the Campus. Also on Saturday, April 30, AOP and Alpha Phi Alpha Fra- ternity, Inc., will co-sponsor a 40- piece youth steel band. CASYM, from Brooklyn, New York. CASYM specializes in playing a wide variety of music - classical- jazz-modem-pop - using steel drums, which are made from 50- gallon oil cans. Members of the group range in age from six years to twenty-two years old. This program is being dedicated to the memory of Mohammad Omar, who was an Alpha Brother. CASYM will play in the College Center Courtyard, 2pm to 3:30pm. Sincerely, Ethel David, AOP and community spirit, we need to buy $500,00 worth of beer so some small percentage of the · campus conununity can drink. There is definitely a problem here. How ironic it is that the So- Union Students Are Good Neighbors cial Committee, who are specifi- . Dear Editor, cally looking for alternatives to As a resident of Gillespie Street, the usu~ night life here at Union, I resent the idea being circulated would spend money on beer. that we as a commt~nity resent stu- And do you know where thfs fes- dents living off campus. Nothing tival ofbeers will take place? At could be further from the truth than our very own campus that illusion. Last year and this pub ... CHETS!!! Boy am I glad. yearisbetterthanjthaseverbeen. the finance committee decidedto . Students and residents together · ~ve $15,000 in order to get that have worked very hard to make pus and there are still rental va- cancies if more were to so desire. Yes, there will always be prob- lems and they are down to a few. However, to label all students as a problem is not fair as most of them are good students and resi- dents. ·shiny new .bar. That place is re- this happen. ·. : ; ~ · . ·, ; ·~l)HgrpQybtg. now • ' . My comments are almost unahi- . . In alf seriousness, there is a mous for all residents on the street problem. I don't mind helping· when I say we get along as a fam- out during Springfest for the sake ily, have a mutual respect for one of the campus community' but it · another and help each other when I am sure there are many resi- dents of the other streets that feel as we do on ours. I feel it would b~ 6nly fair to thb students that you print my comments in your paper. They should know how a community feels about them. If you would be kind enough to print this letter I would be grate- ful. Give credit to Dean Alford also for his efforts. Thank you, hours, and the number they wish to work. If you are considering Grad school in business this is a plus for your resume. If you are interested contact Lisa at x6155 .. just bothers me to see money be- . we can. Andrew Komack ing wastefully tossed away into When Union College states it such useless ventures. Hey ... just needs a 96-bed dormitory, it's for to stay in the trend, maybe my reasons of its own. There are booth could be the tequila shot many students now living off cam- booth. ,.-- _____ ..._.. __ ....._ ____________ --. Jeremy Govetman Ceramics Club Submit all Letters to the Editor on HD disks!

AprU28,1994,Page12 SCIENCE AND HEALTH Women:· Find Your Men Now, Before It's Too Late by Pamela Lin Concordiensis Staff You see the little cliches every- where on cups and post-its, \l don't need a man, I have my cat,,. sometimes these make you laugh, but we all know the truth. Women need men, just like men need women. This is most obvi- ous biologically, both sexes are needed for human sexual repro- duction, but from recent studies, this old fact may become all too true. Due to recent animal stud- ies and reproductive studies of human males, there are indica- tions that the environment may be feminizing organisms due to chemicals pollutants that mimic hormones. Though genetically it would seem very simple to define a hu- man male, he has the genotype XY while a female .has XX, hor;. mones play a much more domi- nant role in the actual physical expression of gender. Women are associated with estrogen and progesterone, while men are as- sociated with testosterone. In re- ality, both sexes have estrogen and testosterone, but in varying amounts. Both estrogen and testosterone are produced by androgens. The role of hormones is most impor- tant during fetal development. Too much of either estrogen in males and testosterone in females can cause the opposite appear-, ance physical. Estroge.n, and its animal counterpart estradiol, are known as feminizing hormones for this reason. Studies have al- ready shown in the animal king- dom that many chemicals can modify br· hnitate th~se fefuiniz- ing hortn:()ne.s. Many ~pecies have shown · tr¢nds and declines in fertility already due to these chemical pollutants. There is not much known yet about the effects in humans, but reproductive studies seem to in- dicate that these pollutants are af- fecting human males as well. Males are determined by sig- nals in development that trigger the release of male hormones. If this signal is not sent, then the male hormones will not be re- leased, and female traits will re- sult from this lack Richard M. Sharpe, from the Medical Re- search Council's Center for Re- productive Biology, calls female development as ''the default path- way.\ The presence of estrogen or any chemical that inhibits the release of androgens can result in feminization. The male repro- ductive tract develops from the seventh to the fourteenth week of Reproductive Altering Drugs Listed by Pamela Lin Concordiensis Staff Last October, a list of 45 hor- monal and reproductive altering chemicals were listed in the En- vironmental Health Perspectives. The list included 17 insecticides, and several other herbicides, fun- gicides, nematocides and a mis- cellaneous category of industrial byproducts. Toxic pesticides such as DDT, heptachlor and kepone have been restricted, but they are still being released into the environment. These pollut- ants are shown to have wide ranges. The same organopesticide found in seals in Siberia was also found in fish in Portland, Maine and in penguin from Antarctica. Organochlorines are also on the list, and some of these are still commonly used in pesticides. Nonylphenols are linked as an estrogenic contaminant and are components in many plastics and may leak out. Ana Soto, an en- docrinologist at Tufts University School of Medicine, says that nonylphenols may be formed in the degradation of surfactants. She estimates that 360 million pounds of such surfactants are sold in the United States a year to be used in detergents, pesticides and even toiletries. Even though a person's dosage may not be high enough to be at risk to one particular compound, the accumulated exposure to sev- eral contaminants at one tenth the dosage puts one at risk. Contami- nants and estrogenic pollutants can only be detected by labora- tory testing and riglit now, that process is still slow and often times results are ignored. Soto's laboratory has detected three new compounds, and two have been banned in the United States. The third, endosulfan, is still the most widely used pestiQide in the United States. Regulations exist requiring in- vestigations of the possible car- cinogenic .effects of all new chemicals before they are placed on the market. However, no such demands are made to test their re- productive system altering ef- fects. Soto blames society for being unwilling to shoulder the economic burden. Cancer has risen to a level of prominence and social acceptance and therefore, is heavily funded. But Soto won- ders, \What is the economic cost of having a generation that can- not reproduce?\ Source: Science News Jan 22, 1994. pregnancy. Low doses of exter-. · nal homwnes that are added dur- ing this tim~ period do not cause complete g.ender change but rather subtle differences. Recent trends in several indus- trialized countries indicate that testicular cancer counts have risen. Denmark bas kept a na- tional cancerregistry since 1943, and testicular cancer counts have tripled in the past 50 years. Counts ate still rising in Den- mark~ <md data from. the United States, Scotland and other coun- tries in 'ScandinaViah~ve shoWn. similar jncreases. While testicular cancer num- bers have been increasing, sperm counts have been decreasing. In the last five decades the average sperm densityhas fallen from ll3 milll·on per milliliter to 66 million permtlliliter. These numbers are compiled from international stud- ies of 14, 947 men. The,volume of semen available at aity' given . time has been reduced by 19% in this. time period, indifating a greater seriousness than just the decrease in spenn density alone. Another indicatot of de- creased reproductive ability is a condition known nary tract where the groove along the penis of a fetus, does not fully fuse; the groove should fuse and form the urethra before birth. Males bQrn with this congenital · defect need to have corrective sur- gery. Records of births in Great Britain indicate that the number of cases ofhypospadias doubled frem 1964 to 1983. Researchers are working on the links between these reproductive problems in males. Finding such a connection might lead to an undet:- standing of how feminizing hor- mones actually affect the male re- productive system. It qas already been found that some men with testicular cancer, cryptorchidism, and hypospadias and poor quality semen, had mothers who received cryptorchidism. Cryptorchidism estmgen treatments while they is the failure of the testicles to were pregnant. This gives sup- migrate from the kidney where port for the hypothesis that estro- they develop to the scretum be- gen may emasculate males. Further fore birth. Though some males support has been discovered since never have migration ofthe tes- 1991 with the recognition of many ticles, many will within the frrst estrogenic pollutants. two years after birth. Males with Since· then, many estrogenic pol- this condition .·do not-.produce .·. lutants have been recognized and sperm, ·and:.trmf:ar6''iiif~~il~. s th~tr iise restricted. Hopefully, Even meJ.l ~ho'were crypt.Qteltia th!s~gro~ng concem will lead to maytemp0riHiysiifi\er.:ftoiri-fer- even stricter legislation and a so- tility problems in' later-~i'ife. cial awareness of the possible det .. Though international data is not . rim ental effects of such pollutants. available for comparison, two This; isn't the sort of thing thatis British studiesi'sl;l:Q\\'::«.1~! the_ fre~ to be laughcif;a(,~,, not at all. Im~g­ quency has increased frotD. L(?% ine the effe.cts ·if even 5% of th~ to 2.9% from the 1950s, to tne menintlfeworl<llostreproductive late 1970s. capability, within: 'a few genera- Hypo~padias are other male tions the gene pool would have r¢prodrictive problems that may dwindled considerably, and that b~ ano~~er~ result of fenrlnizing perfiaps is 'the biartty' of humans, hormones. A hypospadia is a in their diver§ity. Source: Science congen~tal disQrder of the uri- News Jan.2~~.l9?:4. r.-~-~ . :. - o:- Pre-Hea,Ith Society Meeting Man,.dato.ry!o!! . .. ~ . .-'·:Tuesday, May4, 1994 4:30-6:15 PM Bailey 102 Dr. Roth will address Junior Pre-meds about AMCAS. Dr. Roth will have an alternate meeting on Tuesday, May 3, 1994, 4:45·6:00PM l lc t 0 c l a ; ' ..

FEATURES April 28, 1994, page 13 . Unveiling Vale Park : U Can Make a Difference Union Students to Work Alongside City Residents in One of.the First Schenectady 2000 Projects by :Pavid L,.wine · , .· Editpr ... ill-cl#ef ' l • ' Vale Pari.<, a 5.0-aete lot ofland locatedjust' a few blocks from the Union campus, with its entrance on Nott Tetrace, will be the fo- cus ofattention on May 7,. when Union studentswill participate in a mass cleanup of the premises. Brian Macherone, co ... chair of the Schenectady 2000 Vale Park Improvement Com,m.ittee de- scribed the importance of the cleanup project to members of the College community in a cover letter encouraging student in- volvement. Acc·ording to Macherone, he has been notified by interested groups representing over 150 students for the cleanup. The cleanup is sponsored by Schenectady International and wooded areas. The park is \Vale Park is a tract of land at- most the siz;e of the campus with jog~nglbicycling trails, two large ponds and a rn,.ix of open fields ' within $ight of the Can:ipus, the entrance is on Nott Terrace across tiie .street from the Holiday Inn, Vale Park will be an early, vis- ible effort of the Schenectady 2000 campaign and needs a big sendoff to show the com~unity the spirit of Schenectady 2000. Our first project will be a cleanup ofthe park. I would like to see a large Union turnout for this im- portant community event. In ad• dition to the initial cleanup, long term participation projects are also possible for organizations that wish to have a longer in- volvement. Beyond its value as a community service opportunity, I think Union has a lot to gain from a park of this size and qual- ity so close to campus. It will provide an off-street green space that will be usable by students for walking, jogging 1 bicycling, pic-. nics, nature walks and other ac- tivities. Winter activities will in-' ' One ojtl1e assets of Vale Pll:_rk are tile two large ponds. (plwtograplts by F. Jeremy Smit/IITC) elude cross-country skHng and ice.,skating when the ponds have Vale Park /Jas been vandalized a lot over tl1e years. Union students will help to clean up the mess. been improved. President Hull is a founding visionary of the Schenectady 2000 project, let's all get behind him and show Schenectady what Union is made of.\ Macherone admits that though some ofthe goals of the cleanup may be short-term, in order for the park to undergo significant ch~nges \people must stay in- . volved for a longer period of time.\ In the long-run, Schenectady 2000 would like to \make Vale Park a city attractiqn.\ Part of beautifying the_park includes \re- moving and relocating the gate- way fence, landscaping and in- stalling picnic tables, and install- ing a user-friendly lighting sys- tem.\ Once these projects are com- pleted, members of Schenectady 2000 anticipate \investigating the feasibility of locating a botanical garden, arboretum, or other fea- ture of the park.\ Additionally, the drainage system of the ponds need to be improved. In some years, Vale Park may available to Schenectady resi- dents and Union students as a year-round recreational facility. Those interested in participat- ing in the cleanup should either contact Brian Macherone at 388- 6293 or show up at the entrance to Vale Park located on Nott Ter- race, between the Days Inn and Four Seasons Restaurant. Park- ing will be available all along the Nott Terrace corridor. Participants are encouraged to wear work gloves, long pants, and a long sleeve shirt. Students may bring their own lunches. Macherone warned students that \they should expect to get dirty.\ No pets, alcoholic beverages or power tools will be allowed in the park during the cleanup. The rain date is Saturday, May 14. Get involved.

April 28, 1994, Page 14 FEATURES Question and Answer with Pat Haskell, V.P. Finance The Second in a Series of Interviews With Student Leaders What have been yo11r main responsibilities as the vice- President of Finance? . . . I have talked extensively with Lee Bloomrosen to find a way to reorganize club budgets and the distribution of student activities money. There is a huge demand for the $341,000 which the stu: dent Forum allocates ,to clubs. We have restructured the meth- ods in which clubs. approach the Finance Committee for funds so that these funds are spent wisely and efficiently. Additionally, more clubs have been made aware that there is more money inStudentActivities. Someclubs have been able to utilize these · funds. to become sources ·of real studf;}nt power. cial Committee~ and· Chefs. There is a great deal of How has the Student Forum time spent in day-in, day- changed? . out responsibilities. I need I tll.ink one of our biggest ac.. to meet with people on ev- complishments has been the in.. ery club. Sometimes l crease of diversity. The people have to be the bad guy. in positions of power are no Students can't spend longer .part of the all-boys net... money if its not allocated. work. Therearemanymoreopin- What else have you ions presented at Forum meet- been involved with this ings. There has been more dis- year? sent en the Forum, and that is I serve on MA:G. We good because it leads to better have been able to evalu .. government.. ate and address problems What have been some of the with a lack of .major accomplishments of this multicultural education at Forum? Union. Wehaveevende- I think that getting Crew up- bated what graded to varsity status was a, multiculturalism is itsel'f. major accomplishment. nomen I think people are more ·and women who spent$400-$500 aware of multicultural --------~ .......... ---_.._......,....,..._,_..__..:...__.__......__.. .......... ..,_-. events. \I think one of our [the Student Forum] bas been the increase in diversity . . . There are many more opinions presented at the Forum meetings. There bas been more dissent on the Forum, and that is good because it leads to better government.\ How has tbe Finance Com- mittee ·changed? We have become a little more active than Finance Committees on prior Forums. We meet at least once a week because we believe that there needs to be a high level of communication between the committee and clubs. We have been able to allocate $40,000 of new funding to clubs such as the Ballroom Dancing Club, the So- a year out of their own pockets for travel and expenses will no longer have to do so. Getting this accomplished required persever- ance. Two years ago the students approached President Hull with this initiative, and in the absence of senior leadership this year the plan might still have been in limbo. How much time does this po- sition take? Has the sense of com- munity at Union in- creased? The general sense ·Of community has improved. This is for two reasons. The group of people on the Forum are more re- sponsible to the student body, Secondly, the people who were elected are pro-action. What are you doing ne~t year? I am working on the fixed in- come trading floor for First Bos• ton in New York City. What memories will you leave Onion with? My finest memories have been with my fraternity and the inter• actionsJ have enjoyed as a result of my organization. 1 enjoyed being a member of the football team and the golf teimL B.y be- ing a member of the football team it was a great opportunity to see many school$, and to compete. I really enjoyed my tetmabroad to Italy as well. -, · Next Week : Interview with Matt A. Karlyn, V.P. Academics in our continuing stude.nt'leader series. .. . Test of Your Movie Quotes Knowledge: Are you Gene Siskel or Do \You Need to Put Down Your Thoreau''? by Rawson Thurbe~ Concordiensis Staff One of my only claims to fame is that I seem to posses an ency- clopedic knowledge of movie. quotes. I know what you're think- ing, \Wow I wish I had the abil- ity to quote motion pictures. Then I would finally be able to receive my certificate of ultimate lame- ness.\ Well, I have mine framed, so let's just drop the sarcasm, shall we? The important thing about movie quotes is that they can be used in idle conversation to make you sound sm~. fu~ny ~ or ~ell versed in the cinematic arts. So the following is a test you can take in the privacy ofyour own room to find out whether you know enough about American culture. After taking this test you can practice these quotes in front of the mirror until you have the stu- pendous ability to work them into your every day conversation. What movies are these four- teen quotes from? 1) \Hey man, we ain't falling for no banana in the tail pipe.\ 2) \ ... We're mutants. There's something wrong with us. Some- thing very, very wrong with us. We're soldiers, but we're Ameri- can soldiers, we've been kickin' ass for tvvo~hundred years. We're ten and one!\ 3) \ ... So you go to your Church, 7) \Can I borrow your towel? My car just hit a Water Buffalo.\ 8) \They took the bar!! The whole F***ing bar!!\ 9) \It's 106 miles to Chicago, we've got a full tank of gas, half a packet of cigarettes, it's dark, Harvard mouth extend me some right start dropping quotes like fl'**ing courtesy.\ hot bricks. Ifyou want to get the 14) \Be ~e ball Danny.\ call up to the big league, you Answers, answers, answers: might want to start watching USA 1) Beverly Hills Cop. 2) \Up All Right. 11 Believe me, I Stripes. 3) Malice. 4) Top Gun. can't tell you how often a quote 5) Caddyshack. 6) The Breakfast . from \Cycle Vi~eus\· makes you and you pray, ~d with any luck you may win the annual raffle. But if you're looking for God, he was in operating room number three one, November 17th and he \Correct me if I'm wrong, but if I kill all the golfers on the course they're gonna lock me up and throw away the key.\ Club. 7) Fletch. 8) Ani- . the king of the conversation. mal House. 9) Blues· 12-14 Correct: You can hold Brothers. 1 0) The Break- your own with anyone. You need fast Club. 11) YQung nooutsidehelp. You'vegotyour Guns. 12) Caddyshack. movie trivia handled. You know 13) A Few Good Men when it's appropriate for a Bill 14) Caddyshack Murry line, or when a subtle What do my scores Chevy Chase zinger is the needed doesn't like being sec- ond guessed. You ask me ifi have a 'God Complex' and I tell you I am God!'' 4) \Ok the bet is twenty dol- lars. You have to have carnal knowledge, of a lady this time, on the premises.\ 5)''It's my own combination of Kentucky Blue Grass and North- ern California Sansemia. So when you're done playing eighteen, you can go home and get stoned to the bajeezas off it.\ 6)\ Andrew here is trying to tell me that in addition to the number of girls in the Niagara Falls area, you and he are presently riding the hobby horse.\ andwe're wearing sunglasses. Hit say about me? ingredient to keep the conversa~ it.\ \ O-S Correct: y Po need to put tion clicking. You might want to 1 0) ''Tw<> hits; mlliittihgJou,' ·&own your He~ DaVid Thoreau begin: ti>;;become familiar with you hitting the floor. Anytime and start watching some. Saturday Saturday.'· Ni'gh~ Live i sketches you're ready pal.\ afternoon movies. Don't hesitate (along with Tile Kids in the Hall) 11) \You got yourself three or to rent some of these classic mov- to give your conversation skills a four good pals, and you got your- ies and watch them over and over good rounding off. self a tribe, and there ain't noth• again. You might be able to catch Well, I hope this quiz gives you ing stronger than that. You leave · upwiththerestofyourpeerswith an ideaofwhereto go. Don't get us now, and our sacred hoop is a couple of months of intense discouraged if your score was on broken.\ \movie marathon\ training. I'm thelowside. That>swhywehave 12) ••correct me if I'm wrong, pulling for you. video stores. Justmarchon down but ifi kill all the golfers on the 6-U Correct: You can 'hold to your local store, become a course they're gonna lock me up your own when the conversation member, and let the fun begin! and throw away the key.\ turns to classic flicks. The best I am available for personal tu- 13) \ ... What I want is for you thing for you to do is learn the telage: Rawson Thurber, Box to stand there in your faggity dialogue from one movie by #2018 white uniform, and with your heart, then when the moment is 3l h: m re m irt c~ m th m Si se se th sc n< \\i to fe h2 e\ all nc pe Oil di: of ar, Ri4 set sh loc de the th~ ru: at ac1 ch en th€ gn IVI of ci~

FEATURES April 28, 1994, page 15 The Fear of Religion: On the Verge of Atheism by Alexis Leist Features Editor For some reason, still unknown aild abstract to me, I have always had an aversion to my religion. I am Catholic, although at this point in my life I am not a prac- ticing Catholic and am almost on the verge of atheism. My atti- tudes towards Catholicism have often offended my mother, yet when she questionedtne I had no formulaic response, I simply an .. swered. \because.\ I really had no idea why I don '·t like it, I just don't. And I fe1t guilty about it. I still do. I felt that I would burn in everlasting hell for question- tined to go to hell anyway, I be- gan to ignore the Catholic school antics and tum my back on Ca- tholicism .. Thank God, my par- ents took me out of that hell and for my ·last two years of elemen- tary school I attended public school. I think even they began to see the change that had ec- curred in me, I was becoming al- most a zombie, spewing out prayers but never understanding or finding solace in them. But it was not only Catholic gr~mar school that scared the living daylights out of me, but church itself. The crucified Jesus hanging from the apse of every C(:ltholic church has always, and doctrines and beliefs. I find that the Catholic religjon .is extremely sexist, indeed it may very well be the root of Western civilization sexism as we know it. Eve is a curse on Adam; likewise, men still hold women as a curse on them, wotnen are the ones who brought sin and sex to the world. Thus, we have been endowed with the pains that come with child birth, which according to Catholicism, is our only function in life. Be fruitful and multiply; doesn't it go something_Iike that? Women are not supposed to have sex before they are married. How pertinent is that rule in .our day and age? Women should not ing and doubting my religion. However, I have recently put my finger on part of the reason why I shun my religion. It scares me. \Be fruitful and multiply, doestn't it go something like that? Women should not practive birth control'? Women cannot get divorced? Like I said, crazy! practice birth control. What are they, crazy? Women cannot get di- vorced. Women can- not become priests (I'm only referring to Catholicism). Like I Ever since I can re- member, Catholicism to me rep- resented something \evil.\ This may sound quite heretical and ironic, but to me it was evil be- cause I feared it. Everything to me seemed punishable and dam- nable, thus I questioned every- thing I did. My Catholic gram- mar school enforced such a view. Sin. Bum in hell. Nowhere did I see the love and joy that so many seem to find and celebrate in .Ca- tholicism. The nuns would scream and berate if a student did not know his or her prayers. When I went to confession, and told the nuns l had nothing to· con- fess they insisted that I had to have done something wrong, thus everything became a sin to me and I doubted my own \good- ness.~' This constant attitude, that people are always \bad\ and no one can ever be inherently good, disillusioned me. Since I was des- still does, send chills down my spine. I can't look at him with- out turning away in fear. Some are so lifelike that they really do seem to be crying out. I feel sad when I see him, yet his presence is so scary that I'd rather not look. But besides him, I had trouble with the other statues also. The only one I liked was the Virgin Mary. The incense smell of a church has always reminded me of a cult and even some of the songs seem to me like horrible chanting. All in all, simply being in church frightens me. It makes me feel unimportant and power- less, it makes me doubt myself and the world, it makes me think about hell, about all the sins I've committed in my life, and the more I commit by rejecting my religion. Guilt plays a big part in Catholicism, believe me I know. Recently however, I now also disagree with certain Catholic said, crazy. For are- ligion that seems to reject sex through its doctrines, the Bible may be one of the most sexual books ever. In sum, I don '.t understand my religion. I fear it. It makes me feel inadequate, like less of a per- son. It is rooted in sexism. It seJVes to hold us back. Sin. Burn in hell. I have never seen any joy or love in it, only punishment. Its' artistic. depiction makes me cringe. It's doctrines are seriously out of date. I know I will be damned for thinking and writing such things, but it is only opin- ion. I apologize ifl have offended anyone, I realize this is a very touchy subject, often untalked about. I hope one day to find the love and joy which I know others see in Catholicism. Until that day, however, I will hold fast to my doubts. My Memories of the College Search: \Will We Ever Be t.ftat Big and that Cool?\ by Erin M. O'Neil Felllllres Editor Watching the anxious groups of perspeetive students being l~d around campus brings bac.k memories of my own,, college search. Who can't relate to the shy, little high school senior looking at the life of a college stu- dent with awe, wondering if they'll ever be as big and cool as they are? Who doesn't recall rushing home to .their mailboxes at lunchtime to see if they were accepted at the institution of their choice? Who could forget the cmshing blow of rejection, and the process of picking through the groupof\less desirable, but, hey, I was accepted schools.\ For most of us, the key to making this cru- cial decision was based on the in- famous \overnight visit.\ According to experts, the pur- pose of an overnight visit is to give the perspective student the opportunity to experience the life Of course it wouldn't be_ fair to tell. ~ir stories without first di· vulgingmy own. I came to Union in April of my senior year. I had the pri'1le~e ofspending the night experience. Senior Stacy Budnick recalls, \I don't remember where I was or what I did, but I think I had a good time.\ of a student at the col- ------------------- lege which he/she is \Who could, forget the crushing blow Sophomore Daryl Klein cites his rea- son for choosing Union: visiting. Accordit}g to of rejections, and the process ofp.ick- what I know as the ing through .~the group of 'less desir- nonn, the purpose of an ovemightvisitistoget able, but, hey I was accepted \When I came up as a perspective, someone told me I could do well with- as drunk as you can schools.'\ with the \big kids,\-------------------------- knowing your parents will never find out. After making a number of \overnight visits\ the college decision should be simple. Go to the school where you drank the most beer. On that note, I thought it might be interesting to talk to some Union students about their expe- riences as perspectives at Union. at a fraternity on campus. All I remember seeing of Union is the basement of this fraternity. The experience I had in that basement was enough to make me choose Union. You can not imagine the impact it had en my life. Come to find out, a lot of .people shared similar stories when asked of their virgin Union out doing any work. I believed them.\ Sophomore Jay Albanese cred- its the friendliness of the admin- istration with nudging him to- wards Union: \I stopped at Union while fol- lowing the Dead tour in '92. I had a killer interview with Dean Alford, that's why I came.\ A student who wished to re- main anonymous remembers: \I passed out in front of admis- sions.\ Perhaps the most astonishing story from all comes from sopho- more Eggy, \I fell into the stream at Jackson's Gardens and wasn't found for three weeks. After that I felt very much a part of Union's campos.\ Based on this information, I have a word of advice for the ad- missions office. You can have all the phone-a-thons and class ob- seJVation days you want, but if you really want to attract the stu- dents, host a perspective keg party. It's bound to be a winner.

April 28, 1994, Page 16 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Nona Hershey Shares Printmaking with Union Courtesy of the Visual Arts Department Nona Hershey, artist/ printmaker, will give a slide lec- ture on her own work, Thursday, May 5, 1994, at 11:00 a.m. in Room 215, Arts Building, U1,1ion Col- lege. This is free and open to the general public. Nona Hershey's work combines intaglio, woodcut, chine colle and collage in two and three dimen- sional fonnats. She has exhibited extensively and her work is in- cluded in the collections of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Librruy of Congress, the Skopje Museum of Contemporary art in Yugoslavia, and the Crakow Na- tional Museum in Poland, to name a few. Ms. Hershey, received her BFA from the Tyler School of Art in Philadelphia and her MFA from the Tyler School of Art in Rome. She has taught in Rome and Ja- pan and currently she is Associ- ate Professor of Printmaking, Massachusetts College of Art, MA. for Nona by Sarah Blake She can't stop the habits of her hands. When she pulls the copper plate towards ·her to etch the woods outside her window she traces the dark webbing she has memorized by now, the dim net of locked limbs and bent spines, and bums the slim lines and shadow into the polished surface. But she wants in, wants her fingers to slide behind the flat gate to the bones she sees · out there, old age spots on women's hands, and her hands argue: thick trunks, a bright back spot well-centered. Leaning into copper as though pulled towards a lit window . from the dark, she battles her fingers to pick the lock and enter what she can't make yet but knows. Eve, too, stood like this. Behind her, all the bright clarity of Eden. Without turning she knew the doves. called from the good tree, a cheetah padded through dry grasses. Tf she reached out her hand she could touch him, he as mysterious now as the patchwork before her, the place without paths. She cansidered the tret:s A vast sighitig rose at their center, branches moving in a way she couldn't name, so she stepped to them, the. sap ·of her unknowing tugging her through the dark pivot, so at its very tip, we cry, I'm coming, love, I'm coming! though we mean, going, we are going, our bodies the gates we step through, to enter . Local Arts and Entertainment Calendar THURSDAY. APRIL 28 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: \Dazed and Confused,\ 8 & 10 pm, $2. FRIDAY, APRIL 29 COLLEGE.CENTERAUD. FILM: \Philadelphia & 10 p.m., $2. A HA TFUL OF RAIN: Michael V. Gazzo's drama about a family caught in the web of drug addiction and deceit. Spa Little Theater, Saratoga Spa State Park. 8:15 prn, $14- $12. 587-4427. PIANIST LOUIS LORTIE: All-Beethoven program at the Troy Savings Bank Music Hall, Second and State Street, Troy, 8 pm, $17- $20, students half price. 235-3000 SATURDAY. APRIL 30 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: See Friday, April 29. A HATFUL OF RAIN: See Friday, April29. ODADAA: Music and dance in the Ghanaian tradition, 8 pm, Maureen Stapleton Theatre, Siek Campus Center, Hudson Valley Community College, $10, 270-7170. SUNDAY. MAY 1 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: See Friday, April29. A HATFUL OF RAIN: 2 pm, see Friday, Apri129. HOW TO SUCCEED IN BUSINESS WITHOUT REALLY TRYING: Frank Loesser & Abe Burrows' award-winning Broad- way musical, Schenectady Light Opera Co., Opera House, 826 State St., Schenectady; 8 pm, $14. 399-9359. ST. CECILIA ORCHESTRA: Kenneth Kiesler conducts Elgar: Introduction & Allegro, Walton: Sonata for Strings, Walker: Lyric for Strings, Diamond: Rounds, Sousa/Carragan: Marches, Union College Memorial Chapel, Schenectady; 7 pm, 433-9513. UNIVERSITY CHAMBER SINGERS: David Griggs-Janower, conductor, Perfonning Arts Center, SUNY A, 1400 Washington Ave, Albany; 3 pm, free, 442-3995. MONDAY.MAYl COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: See Friday, April29 UNIVERSITY -COMMUNITY SYMPHONIC WIND ENSEMBLE & UNIVERSITY PERCUSSION ENSEMBLE: Henry Carr & Richard Albagli, respective conductors, Recreation & Convocation Center, SUNY A, 1400 Wash- ington Ave., Albany; 8 pm, free, 442~3995. TUESDAY. MAY 3 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: \Heathers 8 & 10 pm, $1. WEDNESDAY. MAY 4 BALLET CHICAGO PERFORMS QANSEL & GRETEL: Chicago's Premiere Classical Ballet Company, recreates a timeless classic story in their world premiere production of \Hansel & Gretel,'' 8 pm-,. Proctors Theatre, $22.50- $18.50. 382- 3884. LECTURE/RECEPTION: Recogni~ing work against art censorship and the publication of \Art Censorship in America: A Guide for Young People\ with Harlow Robinson, guest speaker, NY Civil Liberties Union, Picotte Gallery, College of St. Rose, 324 State St., Albany; 6-8 pm, $10-100, 436-8594. THURSDAY. MAY 5 ALBANY SYMPHONY CONCERT PREVUE: David Alan Miller, conductor, leads a lively discussion of the upcoming concert, Albany Public Library, Washing- ton Avenue, Albany; noon, free, 465-4755. COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: ''The Piano,\ 8 & 10 pm, $2. FRIDAY. MAY 6 ALBANY SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA: World famous violinist Young Uck Kiin in.Btahm.'s Concerto, Nielson's Symphony No.5 and a world premiere (>fLam's Circle, Troy Savings Bank Music Hall, Second & State Streets, Troy; 8 pm, $12-32, 465-4755. · AMERICAN BALLROOM THEATRE: Experts in the foxtrot, mombo, rumba & waltz perform, Empire Center at the Egg, Albany; 8 pm, $18, $10. 473-1845. COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: \Reality Bites,\ 7:30 & 10 p.m., $2. CROSSING DELANCEY: Heart-wanning comedy about a mQdern Jewish woman who falls in love with a man who works in a traditional Jewish deli. Albany Public Theater, Albany Civic Theater, 235 Second Ave., Albany; 8 pril, $10,462-1297. A HATFUL OF RAIN: S.ee Friday, April 29. HOW TO SUCCEED IN BUSINESS WITHOUT REALLY TRYING: See Sunday, May 1. RUMORS: Schenectady Civic Players, Playhouse, 12 South Church St., Schenectady; 8 pm, $10, 382-:2081. UNION COLLEGE ORCHESTRA AND CHOIR CONCERT: Orchestra featur .. ing Kevin Huang, '96 in the last movement of Mendelssohn's Violin Concerto in E Minor and the premiere of Nightscape by Ramakrishna Gaddipati, '95 Choir featur- ing Dvorak's Te Deum. 8:30, Memorial Chapel. Compiled by Suzanne Robinson/Concordiensis Staff

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT April 28, 1994, Page 17 Indigo Girls Promote New Album at Union by Suzanne Robinson Arts Editor · Last Monday, Union College was .finally the host to a popular band 1 the Indigo Girls. There was .great excitement for those who were faithful fans, and even those who had just heard one or two of their songs. Most people were enthusiastic simply because of the fact that there would fi- nally be a concert at Union Col .. lege. I remember the first time I heard that the Indigo Girls were coming. I was in a room with a bunch of friends, when we heard on the radio that the Indigo Girls would play at Achilles Rink, on April 25. There was one great fan, and everyone else had at least heard of one of their songs. We got the specifics of when and where the tickets would be sold and other infonnation. For days For almost a week I forgot about people were humming with the the Indigo Girls, but on Monday · infonnation. everybody started talking about I, along with over tlfree hun- them again. The friends I had dred people, waited in line on been with when I had first heard . Thursday, April12, for over two about the event, decided they hours to buy tickets. People should leave at 6:45, to make sure around me worried about the they would get good seats. Again concert selling out ·before they ·they didn't have to worry. got a chance to buy a ticket- I went with another friend, who nothing to worry about, there had friends fi·om Woodstock up, ~ere plenty of tickets to go~ . to see the concert. We didn't ar- around. rive until 7:30, and still the rink wasn't that full. While I was waiting for the con- cert to begin I noticed several things. One was that the major- ity of the people attending were not Union College students. There was a surprising amount of older people, meaning noli stu- dents. Also, there were a lot of students from the area. The other thing I noticed, was the lack of guys. This was definitely a woman's concert. The first hour almost sent me home. The opening band was good, but not good enough. They were old, and.not wha,twe wanted. We came to listen to the Indigo Girls, not two old guys. But once the Indigo Girls came on, the crowd became much more in- volved and enthusiastic. I liked the fact that they played some of their unreleased songs from their new album, but I wish they played more of their old songs. When they did play their well-known songs, you could hear the overwhelming noise of the audience singing along. Now, the concert is over, and everything is back to normal. I've talked to some friends who said they alinost fell asleep, or who left after awhile, but hey, the Indigo Girls are supposed to be mellow. I don't know if I would wait in line for two hours again for the tickets, but I would go again. , .... ·· · .. fme.Of jhese high-speed, high-performance machines can be yours for low monthl payments. , Th~ other one is just here for ookS. I I I ) i \ Lamborgbini Diablo vr with leather interim; cool wheel1 and a really. really, ,·eallyfastengine. Polller Macintosh 6100160 8/160 u·itb an Apple' Color Plus J4\Disjifay. an ApJJ/e F.rtended Keyboard If a11d mouse. ' , ... . ~ Right now, ~hen you q~alify for the Apple Computer Loari, you could ;~y ~ llitle · analysis, simulations, video editing and much more. Without wasting time. If you'd as $33t a month for a Power Macintosh~ It's one of the fastest, most powerful personal computers ever. Which . like further information on Power Macintosh, visit your Apple Campus Reseller. You're Ap 1 ,;. sure to find a dream machine that's well within your budget. · . p1€ ,_, Power Macintosh for $33 a month. means you'll have the ability to run high-performance programs like statistical Contact Charles Bosworth at Union College Bookstore College Center, 2nd Floor • 388-6188 'Monthly payment is an estimate based on an .Apple Computer Loan of $2,122 for !be Power Macintosh 6100160 81160 shown above. Price and loan amounts are based 011 Apples est/male of higher education prices as of February 1994. Computer S)~tem prrces. mrmtblypayments a11d loan amormts m~· tlfl~r Jl!e your Apple CoiTI{liiS /lese/fer for cul'felll prices. A 55% loan original ion foe will be added 1o the reqtJesfed loan amoulll. The interest rate is variable, based on the commercial paper rale plus 5J5%. Far /he nwntb of February, 1994, the Interest rate was 854%. with an APR of 10.14%. 8-year loan term with 110 prepayment penalty. '!1Je lllOirlh/y payment sbowltllSSUIIWS no deforment of principal or /nleresl (deferment will clxinge your I1UIItthly paymenJJ). '/be Apple Computer loan Is subjerJ to credit appro11al, © 1994 Apple Computer, /lzc. All rights resert•ed Apple and the Apple logo arc registered trademarks qfApple Computer, !riC. Power Maciuto.>b is a Jrademnrk of Apple Computer, Inc.

., ,. l \ \ ,. April 28, 1994, Page 18 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT The Reel Picture:Cops and Robbersons by Larry Paska Concordiensis Staff Starring Chevy Chase, Jack Palance, Dianne Wiest, Jason James Richter, and Robert Davi. Directed by Michael Ritchie. Rated PG, Tri-Star Pictures. RATING: **(out offour) Chevy Chase's come~ack film (his last movie, \Memoirs of an Invisible Man,\ disappeared from theaters quickly two years ago) might have reestablished him as one of movie's best comedians had it not been for one slight problem: this story doesnotknow where it wants to go. Ignoring the immature title, the basic premise of the film has all the elements of a sleeper hit ready to go, but lacks the power (or ambition) to execute them, creat- ing a comedy that's light on laughs and devoid of characters we can relate to. Chase once again plays the dim-witted father of a dysfunc- tional family (one son acts like a vampire, another is a heavy smoker, and the daughter goes for cops) who again can 'tseem to get his family together for a nice fam- ily meal. This Clark Griswold· type role (from those National Lampoon's \Vacation\ films) is getting very tiring; he desperately needs a new image, in light of the fact he acts like a sullen, old man in \Cops rather than the lovable clown he once was. Chase is a family man who dreams of be- , ing a cop and living on the edge, watching re- runs of every cop show ever made. Obviously, he can't even open his own garage door correctly. Enter Jack Palance as Detective Stone. He is sent with a partner to stake out the Robberson's next door neighbor's house, where a coun- terfeiter (Davi, again typecast as a villain) is suspected of living. This premise opens up the real- ity of the police force and its workings to Robberson~ who has a field day pretending to help out the two cops on stakeout by snooping through the bad guy's home, crashing through windows, and arresting rude cooks in din- ers. Obviously, Palance gets an- noyed with both Robberson's an- tics and his ''host family's\ intrud- ing behavior. Obviously, Robberson learns what being a cop is truly all about. Obviously, the child learn to stop smoking, value their parents, and avoid bit- ing necks. Obviously, this film goes through these motions one Enjoy an hour of music after the ban- quet ... Dv.orak, Mendelssohn & Brahms ~n:mmt:n ~YltlPe~:rum eeRet:H.T Friday, May 6, 1994 8:30- 9:30pm Memorial Chapel Union College Choir Professor Hugh Allen W.ilson, Conductor Union College Orchestra Professor Hilary Tann, Conductor Violin soloist Kevin Huang, '96 Premiere ofNightscape By Ramakrishna Gaddipati, '95 step at a time, But it does so in a very odd manner. This film, again, sim- ply bas nedirection. It opens as a satire cf stJbwban life, with a street lined w.ith the same houses and even .similar mailboxes with matching name plates. When the lunch bell strikes in Robberson's effice~ all the workers get up simultaneously and walk out single-file through a corridor. Fif- teen minutes later, this weak satirical side to the .story is ditched in favor of Chase's equally weak \clueless father~' routine. Even these e~notional, touching family drama scenes commonplace in comedies from \Home Alone\ to \The Great Outdoors \ lose all ' humcrwithout amusic score and a quiet dialog11e. Why is every .. one whispering in this film? And how many times are we supposed to find toddlers telling their fa- thers, \I remember when I was younger ... '; Funny? Director\ Michael Ritchie, who made Chase shine in \Fletch\ and its sequel, has ptoven to be yet an- other entertainment figure who belongs back in the '80's, when this kind of humor somehow seemed funnier. When a film meant to be mindless, ends up tackling bits of action, satire, slap- stick, dtama artd romance all at once, you'd have to be Charlie Chaplin to make it work. The exploding car in the open- ing scene does not fit in this al- leged comedy, either; far PG-fare, it is too watered down to be taken as seriously as it is. And an the subject of things that don't fit, even in a comedy: Wiest's \Rambo Mom\ act at the end re- ally should go down as one of the cinema's \should have been ed- ited out\ moments. See \Cops and Robbersons,\ but do it in memory of the days when this sort of stuff made Chase a movie superstar. Then rent any one of the three \Vacation\ films and have a good time. Conjugal Bliss by Leeoa Mankad CiJncordensis staff If you. happen to find yourself enjoying the sunshine and spend- ing more time just lying out on the lawn in the afternoons, try bringing this book with you. Grab a blanket~ find a comfort- able sp()t and open to Conjugal Bliss, by John Nichols. This comedy involves two best friends, Roger and Zelda. Roger and Zelda were soulmates, the perfect match in body and spirit. Never before had a man and a woman shared such an awesome relationship. But then they crossed the line- they got married. Their story tells the reader what happens when they made their love legal. He says she's become a rag- ing lunatic to live with ... she says she's tired of making love to his ego and not his body. It's your classic tale of a man and a woman trying to struggle between the lines of friendship and romantic love. The war of the sexes rages on in this one. This book is for any- body who's ever raised a ques- tion about the actions of the op- posite sex. Top Ten Singles of The Week 1. MARiAH CAREY -. \Without You\ 2. ACE OF BASE -\The Sign'; 3. BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN - \Streets of Philadelphia\ 4. ALL-4-0NE - \So Much in Love\ 5. COUNTING CROWS - \Mr. Jones\ 6. BIG MOUNTAIN- \Baby I Love Your Way\ 7. RICHARD MARX-· \Now & For- ever;' 8. CRA.SH TEST DUMMIES - \Mmm Mnun Mmm Mmm\ 9. PRINCE- \The Most Beautiful Girl\ 10 .. MELISSA ETHERIDGE- \Come to Ny Window\ S1 Tt 7:·: 8: 10 Fr 7:~ Sa 7:: Su 7:: Til 8:( S1 T~ 4:: 6:( 6:( · Fr 4:( 4:: 6:( 6 .~ ,_ 7:( 9:( Sa 12 1:( 3:: 5 .~ .. 9:( 9:( Su 12 8:~ 5:: 7:( M 12 5:: 7:~ Tt 8:l 5:l 6:l 6:: w 1 :I 6:1 7:1 8:: 8::

CALENDAR April 28, 1994, page 19 -Calendar of Events at Union : 4/28 - 5/4 STUDENT ACTIVITIES CALENDAR Thursday 04/28/94 7:30p 9.:00p SPEAKER: JAPHETH DWANA 8:30p 12:00a ''DAZED AND CONFUSED\ lO:OOp 12:00a LIP SYNC CONTEST Friday 04/29/94 . 7:30p 12:00a MOVIE: ''PHILADELPHIA\ · Saturday 04/30/94 · 7:30p 12:00a MOVIE: ''PIDLADELPHIA\ Sunday 05/01/94 7:30p 12:00a MOVIE: \PHILADELPHIA\ Monday 05/02/94 7:30p 12:00a MOVIE: ''PHILADELPHIA'' Tuesday 05/03/94 8:00p 12:00a MOVIE: ''HEATHERS\ STUDENT ACTIVITIES MEETINGS Th u.rsday 04/28/94 4:30p ll:OOp MOUNTEBANKS 6:00p 7:30p SHPE 6:00p .8:00p STUDENT FORUM · Friday 04/29/94 4:00.p<9:00p CHET'S 4:30p lO:OOp MO~TEBANKS 6:00p 8:00p LATINO HERITAGE MONTH . COMMITTEE . . . . . 6:30p 9:30p INTERVARSITY CHR. FELL 7:00p ll:OOp PlllLOMATHEN SOCIETY 9:00p 12:00a STUDENT ACTIVITIES . Saturday 04/30/94 CCAUD. ss 016 CHET'S CCAUD. CCAUD. CCAUD. CCAUD. CCAUD. FERO 102 HUM. 113- CC409 CHET'S ss 016 FERO 102 cc HALE HOUSE EVEREST HALL FERO 102 12:00p 9:30p LATINO HERITAGE MONTH HALE HOUSE l:OOp 5:00p STEEL BAND- \CASYM\ CC PATIO 3:30p IO:OOp MOUNTEBANKS SS 016 5:30p 9:00p LATINO HERITAGE MONTH HALE HOUSE EVEREST LOUNGE 9:00p 12:00a STUDENT ACTIVITIES FERO 102 9:00p 12:00a ALPHA Pill ALPHA OLD CHAPEL Sunday 05/0l/94 t2:00a 2:00a ALPHA Pill ALPHA 8:00a S:OOp MOUNTEBANKS 5:30f)ll:00p MOUNTEBANKS 7:00p 9:30p PID IOTA ALPHA . Monday 05/02/94 12:30p 5 :OOp MOUNTEBANKS 5:30p lO:OOpMOUNTEBANKS 7:00p 8:00p WRUC Tuesday 05/03/94 OLD CHAPEL CCAUD. FERO 102 COLLEGE CENTER 409 COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FERO 102 COLLEGE CENTER 204 8:00a 5:00p MOUNTEBANKS COLLEGE CENTER AUD. 5:00p 7:30p DELTA PSI DELTA COLLEGE CENTER 203 6:00p 7:30p SHPE HU 113 -SEMINAR ROOM 6:30p ll:OOp MOUNTEBANKS OLD CHAPEL 7:00p 9:00p MULTI CULTURAL AFFAIRS GR CHET'S 9:00p 12:00a STUDENT ACTIVITIES- COFFEE FERO 102 Wednesday OS/04/94 1 :OOp 6:00p MOUNTEBANKS 6:00p 8:00p MOUNTEBANKS 7:00p 8:00p OUTING CLUB 8:30p 9:00p DELTA PSI DELTA 8:30p lO:OOp G.L.B.A. COLLEGE CENTERAUD. SOCIAL SCIENCES 103 COLLEGE CENTER 409 COLLEGE CENTER 204 COLLEGE CENTER 203 ~tlJclellt tl..ctivitie~/Cvll:l'e9fl3 (;elltt31r llliiglllllliigllll1ts ~~ ~ F~ H.D~ Et~~Mf T~, F~ ~S~N~ q P11tc 11~ _f~d/~ /J/1~: eooiH.a _t~; ~~~~ 5:30PM dlale dlow.te Performing Arts· presents A. Night of Scenes Friday, April 29 8:00PM CC302 Crop Walk Sunday, May J: xz:3o • City Han NOTICE: The Office of the Student Activities and the College Center, Concordiensis, and the Office of Events are now working together top resent this calendar,\ Plan~ ning Your Week at Union.\ In order to facilitate the centralization of scheduling, only events and meetin~s scheduled throu~h the Office of Events will be listed. Events are listed according to categories as designated by that office. Call x6098 or stop in to their office in Wells House to list your events. SPORTS CALENDAR Saturday 04/30/94 ll:OOa 1 :OOp WOMEN'S LACROSSE 12:00p 2:00p WOMEN'S SOFTBALL 2:00p 4:00p MEN'S LACROSSE Tuesday 05/03/94 3:00p 5:00p MEN'S TENNIS 3:30p 5:3.0p MEN~S LACROSSE ASTROTURF ALEXANDER FIELD ASTROTURF TENNIS COURTS ASTROTURF If you have any events you would like put on this page sub- mit them to Mrs. Marra at the Student Activities Office by Monday afternoon.

I' '• April 28, 1994, page 20 PERSONALS/CLASSIFIEDS Personals Bri - Never have I met anyone quite as amazing as you are. Wow, meet him on a cement bench, and then have the whole schooltalkingthenextday. Don't worry we will still love you even though you are bad. Love - Us Jenni - Hope you had a good time in Michigan this weekend. Sure, the first weekend I'm on ~ampus this tenn; and you decide to leave. \Come up and see me sometime.\ Let's have the elections soon. ·Love, H. Jason - Thanks for the hours you should have been sleeping. 1 guess that lecture during orienta- tion was only good to remember because I'm around. I love you, and I can't wait to see you this weekend. Think of all we can debate. Love, Me Number Cruncher seeking intel- ligent hockey player with great calves. Left-handed preferred. Call me. We'll go to Alaska. Tom - Still waiting!!!!!!!!! Little Paine - Next time, I get to pick out the bottle. Love - Big sis Shelly -Hang in there. Next year we'll be free. -the psycho women down the hall. Hey Sheryl- Where were you this weekend. Thought we were go- ing to hang out. Call me some- times. The newspaper is always a good guess. Love, H. Allie and Alice - Mommy/ Grandma loves you very much. Hang in there kids. Hey Cari: Crazy Cari, Scary Cari,. Funny Carl, Curry Chicken, Thanks Carl, Cari, Cari, oh Cari- FF Pamela- Don't worry~ even with- out the boxing glove, I'll still pay attention to you. Thanks for the book of an article. love, the loon Rachel G. - Thanks for remind- ing me how good ice cream can be. -Me Snugglesaurus, I think you are expecially cute today! To \Los Escuderos\: You are truly courageous. Keep on going. can't wish you luck because you already have detennination. Re- member SPSJ! Love you, Don Profeta Classijietls Internship Opportunity: The Coporate Response Group in Washington, DC is looking for full or part-time interns \'ho seek business/investigative research experience. Interns will dealwith recent and on-going crises and natural disasters s11ch as Pepsi syringe scare and Hurricane An- drew. This position is unpaid. If you are interested contact the CDC for more infonnation. Summer Internship Opportunity: The Bank o~ New York~ New York City offers summer interships in one of their Manhat- tan branches. Interns will receive on the job training in customer service, and in 'bankingproducts and setvices. More information in the CDC. Summer Internship.: .Merrill Lynch & Co., Ne-w York City is looking for a research intern in their Quantitative Analysis & Convertibles Research Depart- ment. Economics, Mathc::?matics, or other majors with quantitatve skills invited to apply. Must have completed three years of college. Stipend available. More infonna- tion in the CDC. Great Prizes: Buy a Raffle Ticket To Help The Battered Women's Shelter of Schenectady (May 19th at 8 PM at Chet's) Sample Prizes: Gift Certificates Glen Sanders Caffe Colee Open Door · Manhattan Exchange Fireside Pizza Loew' s Movie Ticekts Dutch Pipers UC Bookstore UC Food Services Chet's Phi Sigma Kappa (Walkman) Sigma Phi (Foos Ball) AND MORE Sponsored by: Delta Delta Delta Delta Gamma Gamma Phi Jleta Sigma Delta 7a u Womeo's Umion Sociology Dept. 1 bedroom apartment. 708 Windsor Terr., behin Sch'dy Mu- seum. .$425/mo. includes heat, HW, and appliaces, Renovated 12/93. Call 355-3093. Summer Job: Summer Camp at the NYS Museum, Albany, is looking for counselors to work with 1st-6th graders. Deadline 4/ 30/94. See the CDC for further details. Summer Program: Student Hos- teling Program has summer lead- ership positions available for teenage bicycling trips. Apply now. See the CDC for further details. Summer Job: Malta Summer Recreation, Malta, NY, is seek- ing interested applicants for staff positions in the Summer Recre- ation Program. See the CDC for further details. Summer Job: Ben & Jerry's on Union Street is looking for a store manager. If you are interested in this position contact CDC fo_r a contact person and further de- tails on this job opportunity. Internship: Prudential Securities, Albany has an. opportunity avail- able for undergraduates and graduates to gain experience working directly with a financial advisor. Students majoring in Economics, Applied Math, Lib- eral Arts and the MBA program are encouraged to apply. Intern- ship is unpaid but a possible sti- pend may be available after proven ability. See the CDC for more info. Summer ofFalllntership: FLY 92 , Albany Broadca$ting Com- pany, Albany offers a diverse con1munication media experience in a professional atmosphere. See the CDC for more info. For Senion; looking for petma- llent oppotunities the CDC Li- brary teceices jobannouncements on a regular basis. Stop by and see what is available. Library hours are SAM - SPM Monday - Friday·; 7 - 9PM Tuesday & Wednesday while school is in ses- sion. Marine Studies Term Abroad Applications Due Monday, May 2nd (This Monday) Terms A~road Office Humanities Building

SPORTS April 28, 1994, Page 21 Track Shows Improvement at Albany Invite by Mike Leding Contribnting Writer This past weekend at the Uni- versity at Alba-ny~ the Union Track and Field Team went up against a bevy of talented com- . petition; 24 teams to be .exact. The men placed ninth out of the twenty four and the women placed sixteenth out of the twenty four. Once again ,it was the strong .arms of the weight team leading Union to such a high place. If not for a mistake by the 4xl00 team and an injury to one of the men on the 4x400 team, Union would have placed a few spots higher. ]lich Pulver once again captured first pla~e with a personal best toss of 52 feet and 9 V2 inches, 'This throw also qualified Rich fo~ Nationals . Rich also placed fifth in the dis- cus with a throw of 131' and 9\ . In the Javelin, Matt Johnson came one $Ore step closer to qualifying for nationals with a throw of 18$ feet $ inches plac .. ing second. Also throwing the Subscribe to <Q!If:e @unr.nrhi.ensis The nation's second best college weekly tabloid for only $40/year. Enclosed please find a check for $40. Send one year's subsriptions to : COLLEGE LIFE WHAT AAE YOU LOOKING AT? javelin finishing exactly behind Johnson for the second week in a row, was Chuck Clerici placing third with a throw of 184 feet and four inches. Jon Gajnor grabbed fourth in the hammerwith a throw of 133 feet 5 inches. Heptathalon. Nadine finished up sixth overall. In the long jump, Dawn Landry placed sixth with a leap of 15 feet 6 inches. In the 400 meters Jon Simon ·placed sixth in a time of 51.99. In the 800 Russ Stram placed fifth in a time of 2:01.3. Dave Riggi blew out his hamstring in the 100 meters with two meters remain- ing, and finished a disheartening On the track Linda Seymour started the scoring off for the women on Friday night,. placing s~venth in the 10,000 meters. While Linda was offand running NadineFilosi was running,jump- ing, and throwing things all over the place competing in the . sixth in a time of 11.02. Since I am doing this all from memory, I do not quite remem- ber what place Matt Stem finished ACROSS 1 Coarse file 5 Kind of energy 10 Pile 14 Israeli airline 15 Penetra1ive check 16- Bombeck 17 Taj Mahal City 18 Beginning 19 Keyed up 20 Wet weather wear 22 Cancee 24 Bakery item 25 Location · 26 Fire re.aidue 29 Organic compouod 31 Patient's need: abbr. 34 Graphs 36 Wash 37 Old car 38 Footed vases 39 Cognlza,nt 41 L.lne throuan a circle: abbr. 42 Oanacn · 43 FOOd regirt\UI!tM 44 .JDCKO~ p•rt 46 McMahon and Ames 47 Cnurch official 49 Thing of value SO P•a.oea 1or sell enoree S, e.aec. units 53 Ma&k 58 (3)ftD 60 Action of unruly crowd 61 \Tempest\' sprite 63 Drive out 64 Fr. magazine 65 Breakfast food 66 MUSIC QUality 87 Ciiotor changer 68 Uses a sieve 69 Kind of cookie 4 Flower holder• 5 Anln1al trail 6 Very fancy 7 Misplaced B Actor Vlgc:;>d& 9 C3eta back \'D lhrc;:,.vv 1 1 Thft'rot'ore 1 2 Frenzied \'13 Se~ato emplOyee 21 Pe~ple in a play 23 Raison d'- 25 Heavenly object 26 Kind of angle 27 Tatter 28 Crew members 30 Rooting material 3\'1 AnernpEs 32 Depart in the triple jump, but I do know He jumped 42 feet 6 inches. Same goes with Marcelo Tellez in the high jump he jumped 6 feet 4 inches and did place, but l do not know what. States is in two weeks. It is now time for the team to recover from injuries and get geared up to run like the wind at states. The weight team will be throwing this week- end at Brown to try and qualify for Nationals before States. So good luck to them and to the rest of the team get healthy. DOWN 33 Sky traveler 35 Water craft 40 Marries 48 Most scarce 50 Liquid 55 Beauty mark 56 Singer Edith 57 Midday 1 Raise (as a family) 2 Seaweed 3 Hindu garment 41 Dinner courses 43 College VIP 45 Trips around the track measure 52 Thaws 53- Scott 54 Unctuous 58 Salad fish 59 Pace 62 Kina: Fr. By Chris Farrar WOP£~ U\E. ~P£ELS . HP \tW\NK\E Nldional Student News Service, 1SSM

.. April 28, 1994, page 22 SPORTS The Ups and Downs ofDutchmen Baseball by Joe Saltz bart Sports Editor After completing a seven game week, your Union College Baseball Dutchmen won three and dropped four to compile an overall record of 7 wins against 171osses. Union's nne opponents this week included Skidmore, Clarkson, St. Lawrence, and Utica College. Unfortunately for the majority of the Union community, your Baseball Dutchmen played their last home games of the 1994 season this past week. A thank you to the fans who attended these fantastic collegiate games and enjoyed the promotional items given away at all home contests. The Union men will conclude their season with doubleheaders against cross- town rival Albany (today) and the powerful Hobart Statesmen on Saturday. On a palmy Tuesday at Central Park, the Baseball Dutchmen .of Union College dropped a deuce to Skidmore College 8-5 and 9- 2. The first game featured the pitching combination of juniors Bob Negro and Bn;tt Rubin. After leading 5-2 through five innings on RBI singles from Saltzbart, Aurora (2), Bernardo, and Haver, the Union men got shut down and failed to execute the basic fundamentals .of the game; reminiscent of the 1993 New York Mets. Rubin and Negro received little help from the remaining eight fielders as Skidmore scored six runs in the final three innings. Union dropped the second game behind the pitching of Paul Drumm, Keith Lombardo, and Scott Newton. The Baseball Dutchmen failed to muster much offense against a short-wise, ass- puss throwing-lefty who threw beach balls from the mound to baffle the Union hitters. All kidding aside, the game remained close until the end, when the Dutchmen defense broke down and gave up enough runs to make a comeback nearly impossible. This past weekend, the Dutchmen travelled to the outer reaches of New York State to take on Clarkson and St. Lawrence in a four game set. Against Clarkson, Paul Drumm pitched a complete game to earn the win in the first game of the double header. The crafty senior pitcher scattered five hits and allowed only two runs in a 4-2 victory. Outfielder Mike Bullen had two hits and two RBis while outfielder Adam Meyers, had threehits on the day. Catcher Joe Saltzbart also added an RBI in the thrilling victory. The same success did not surface for the Union men in the second game. The Baseball Dutchmen could only manage one run on two hits in a losing effort. Pitcher Mike Bernardo held a 1-0 lead into the six inning for the Dutchmen, when Clarkson exploded for four runs off Bernardo and Reliever Jay Greenstein. The only bright spot in this game was the yipping of pitchers Rob Negro and Scott Newton. These Varsity Yippers sent a faithful Clarkson fan away broken, as he tried to challenge the wiley veterans from Yonkers and Medway. After a shaky meal at the Tic Toe Restaurant and a comfortable night's stay at the .Best Western Hotel of Canton, New York, the Dutchmen were ready to ·take on the Larry's of St. Lawrence the following day. After an erratic first inning in which the Saints pushed across four runs, Keith Lombardo settled down to pitch a complete game victory ·1 0-5. Mike Bernardo drove in four runs with a pair of singles and Dags added two hits as Union defeated St. Lawrence in the first game of the doubleheader. In the second game, Union dropped a heartbraker 12-1, as Joe Saltzbart had the honor and privelege of catching the pitching combination of Brett Rubin, Jimmy Knight, Scott Newton, and Robert Negro. This pitching battery scattered 12 runs on 11 hits in the losing effort. Oddly enough, Newton completed a whole inning to wi,n a case of his favorite beer from Saltzbart, who ·had bet the poised Union Football Quarterback that he would not do so by the season's completion. . Following the game, the team travelled home through the town of Lake Placid where players Lenny Barbaro and Johnny Aurora informed the team that they would soil their pants if they had to compete in the Ski Jump. In addition, Aurora and Head Coach Gary Reynolds, then proceeded to yip at each other for the remainder of the trip. Tough times for U'Coll! Earlier in the week, designated Hit·ter John Aurora, drove in winning run; Dave Dagastino, with a two-out double in the bottom of the eighth inning Wednesday as the Union Men rallied to beat Utica College 5-4 at Central Park. Third baseman Jamie Haver had two hits and a RBI for the Dutchmen and outfielder Adam Meyers went three-for-four in the victory. Men's Rugby Impresses New England Teams Again Courtesy of U.M.R. F. C For those of you that missed last week's article, we can sum it up by saying that our play was less than impeccable. Last week the rugby gods urinated on the Union ruggers, which explains the weather that Saturday. Last Saturday, however, would prove to be a dramatic improvement and not only because of the sunny skies. The Union ruggers traveled to Williams for the sixth annual John Donovan Tournament to benefit the mentally ill. Imagine that, ruggers helping themselves. The previous week's efforts against Hamilton (a 0-0 tie), left a sour taste and Union wanted to prove its supernatural talent when they faced them again at Will- iams. The first half was like mak- ing love with your clothes on; we were hot and out of breath, but we just didn't get anywhere. After an inspirational halftime speech by Skip \Chicken Legs\ Aycox the brave men of Union returned to the field determined to win one for Sylvia Nozny [Fa- cility Scheduling]. Lunch was served often and many a Hamilton rugger enjoyed a shoul- der in the ribs. Scoring began as Lee \battin' 500\ Popper finally got a penalty kick to go through the uprights. This was in fact not a freak accident because he did it twice in one game to give the Dutchmen six of their thirteen points. Hamilton was stunned like, small .squirrels in the head- lights of Mac Trucks. After this highway massacre, Seth \Horshack\ Brown with spots popped up a lovely kick which confused the Hamilton Ruggers to the point of insanity. Rob \Puppy\adolesant dog\ DuPuy, taking advantage of this space madness caught the kick and scored with 12 insane ruggers on his back. Popper put through the extra point and in the end revenge was sweet and so are small papa- yas. Due to poor pla1ming and ref- ereeing, the Union ruggers were unable to fair as well against the number three team in North America, the feared Williams A squad. It pleads our case to men- tion that Williams also recently retumed from a tour in England. The weather started getting rough, the tiny Stone was tossed, if not for the courage of the fear- less serum, the hooker would be lost. Once again, the first half ended in a stalemate. In the second half , Dennis \Number four on your scorecard, and number one in your heart\ Popeo sacrificed a limb leading to a Williams' pen- alty. Popper split the uprights and Union was on the board. But shortly there after, the undefeated Williams team struck back. A Union penalty who we will blame on Peder \I'm not in the room now\ Maarbjerg, gave Williams the opportunity they needed. Williams all-international inside center AgaA. Try-you-didn't sent • • Alex \Concave-chest\ Douville, into orbit enabling him to slide into the corner for a 5 point try (delt). The rest of our schedule is a bit sketchy but you can be sure to catch us against our past Ruggers on reunion weekend. We would like to thank the seniors, our coach Skip Aycox, and all the Yaks in Iceland. 1/ ... Join the Union Ultimate Frisbee Club!! -No prior experience necessary, just come to West Beach weekdays from 3:00 to 4:30, or call x5555 if you're interested! Come out and get horizontal!! 1 f

Women's Softball Slips Fanning slaps a ground ball down the third•base .line during lJn,ion 's doubleheader loss to Skidore. The women's team stands at 11·14 with recent vicototies.against Utica and St Rose. Crew lias Mixed Results at Skidmore Invy by S~eve Mooar Contributing Writer -Union Crew went up to Saratoga Springs this past week• end to take part in the Skidmore Invitational. Competitors in ... eluded Skidmore, Albany, and Geneseo. It would be a weekend that would see the varsity men's team bounce back from previous losses and the novice women's team would keep on rolling. Both the varsity and JV men's eights have had a rough going the last two weeks. Both crews were soundly handed losses by Ithaca and Hobart and were looking to gain a foothold in the rankings for States two weeks away. The JV men got this accomplished by sprinting away from the rest of the field in the last five hundred meters for an open water victory. The varsity men had the same results, only accomplished in a slightly different manner. They took control of the race in the first five hundred meters of the 2000 meter race and were never chal- lenged. For the novice wemen, the open water victories produced by the varsity and JV men's eights are becoming habit. After a tough _ lose to Ithaca two weeks ago by four tenths ofa second, they have come back to produce two im- pressive open water victories. - The first coming against William Smith and the second this past weekend against Albany and Skidmore. However, when the eights race was done, the novice women were not. The first nov- ice women's four took the nov- ice fours race by over lOO meters to complete the sweep of the nov- ice women's events. The second four finished fourth in the same race. The varsity women have fought off sickness and injury this sea- son, but were unable to fight off Skidmore as they fmished second in front of Albany and Geneseo. The novice men's eight and the varsity men's lightweight four ran into the same results as the nov- ice men finished second and the lightweight men finished third. Union Crew finishes the regu- lar season this Saturday at Roch- ester. This race is ve:ry impor- tantbecause it is the final chance for the crews to gain ,ground in the rankings for heats at States. The State Championships will be on Saturday, May 7th and Sun- day, May 8th at Cazenovia Lake. SPORTS April 28, 1994, page 23 'Tie\· \K\ by .Joe Saltzbart, · Rob Malfetano. Matt Grabowski OiilcQiflliensiS Bports aficionado and n.ct:~rd.ten.sis· was on a road in for him, : ~wltllY· regarding · it was' a IR!~~i»r~~~nby' Women's Lacrosse Plays Tough Continued from page 24 Unforced Errors: Tennis Struggles and traveled over the line before Jospe scoped it up. The ref was out of position to make a legiti .. mate call, the replay was incon- clusive; the Dutchwomen were robbed. Union kept fighting but were unable to change the score; they went back to the locker room with a respectable 13-11 loss. Captain Mindy Kessler noted that, \the team showed what they could do against one of the best teams in the state. We seemed to be a dif- ferent team today and the coach- ing staff was proud of the way we played against the poor sports- manship of the Hartwick squad.\ Union scoring was prolific, scoring on 11 of 16 shots. In ad- dition to the goals scored by Pearsall ( 4) and Manna (2), Kristen Pappas, Missy Lombardoni, Maria Zukowski, Mindy Kessler and Wendy Miller all scored one goal apiece. The Union effort was furthered by the fine defensive .play of Niclok Solomos who; through good tran- sition and upfield movement~ suc- .cessfully kept Hartwick;s key player in check. The goalies also · turned in a fine perfonnance fac- ing 22 shots, Jospe stopping 8 and Margaret Day stopping 5. Union hopes to finish the season with a .500 record facing Springfield at home on Saturday at 11 :00 and a road game against Oneonta on Monday. Men's Lax Continued from page 24 \all even\ situations. Without a doubt this was the best the team has played this year. Some of the young talent really came to life and showed every- · one that this team has a lot of tal- ent and depth. If the team can continue its three game winning . streak, then the playoffs are still a possibility and the Capitol Cup will be a reality. by Ken Berman Contributing Writer Tennis. Although at first glance it may seem like a tather silly game; this writer has slowly learned that it is more than just a couple of guys whacking a ball back and forth. The· members or this years team have given noth- ing but 110% for the good ofthe team, and this has never been more evident than after watching matches earlier this week. Al- though these attitudes may not have been conveyed in this space last week, this author has seen the light. the team has not been through the easiest of seasons, yet they have continued to play hard, as was shown in their most recent meets, against Vassar and Al- bany. The team .played at Vassar on Wednesday, continuing their search to find the fabled .500 mark. On this date, however, the win eluded your Dutchmen, as the Mighty Ducks of Vassar proved to be one notch too good. The SerVing Dutchmen, forced to end of a disappointing season. play without such top players as Sophomore captain Jay Fishbein, Steve Klopfer, Jon Pearlman, and commented on this saying, \We Scott Rose, simply could not keep are a team with much potential up the pace set by their foes, and were forced to look forward tore- bounding against Albany. Buoyed by factors such as the return of some top players, and also their return to the familiar court ofUnion, the team'shopes were high. Unfortunately, these very same hopes were rudely crunched by Albany, keeping Union on it's seemingly endless spiral oflosses. For those of you keeping score at home, these two losses left the young .team star- ing at a 2-6 record, nearing the and little dir~ction.\ Although nobody wants to make excuses, members have been quick to point out their problems, which include the lack of a medical kit, no rest at all (the team plays 6 nights a week, with as much as 43 games a day), and a rookie coach. Sophomore Andy Schneider, summed up the coaching problem by saying, \First year coach Scanlon is a great conditioner, motivator, and manager of the team, but the team has been severely handicapped by his lack of knowledge of ten- nis strategy.\ However, the team would like to put these problems behind them~ and finish up the season on an upswing, against Hartwick, Williams, and Oswego St. With quality freshman pushing upper- classmen, such as powerhouse Ken Chase, this goal is difficult, but not unattainable. .......

::< ~ ''. ~ ;t , .. i I ·- ~ ~ t I j! !f • s ~ ~· ~ ~ .. I . April28, 1994 PAGE24 Women's Lacrosse Impressive in 13-t·t L~s.s to _#2 Hartwick by Rob Malfetano & Matt Grabowski Concordiensis Sports This past Tuesday Hartwick College rolled into sun ripened Schenectady, boasting an impres- sive 8-4 record and the number two ranking .in the ·State. The Dutchwomen (5-7) looked to continue their recent success and keep the momentum gained over the weekend with a decisive 16- 4 victory over Vassar College. The Dutchwomen kept pace with a solid Hartwick team throughout the game, despite sus- pect officiating and poor sports- manship on the part of the visi- tors. Both teams capitalized on penalties, Maria Zukowski and Captains Mindy Kessler and Wendy Miller all scored off Hartwick infractions. The game was never out of reach for either team. Despite crisp passing, and heads up play, the Dutch women could only muster a 6-6 tie at the half. Union came out strong in the second half, with Jen Manna go- ing coast to coast, weaving her way through the aggressive Hartwick defense to chalk up her first of two such goals in the game. Minutes later, Molly Pearsall came from behind the Women's Lacrosse team in a game last week. (photograph by Jen Aherens exclusively Jot the Concordiensis) Hartwick net, in what appeared to be a routine play. With her back to the net, she fired the ball over her shoulder, faking the Hartwick goaltender out of her pads, giv- ing the Dutchwomen a 10-9 lead. Pearsall gave the Hartwick netminder plenty to think about on the long ride back to Oneonta, tallying four goals that after- noon .. The Dutchwomen were still Men's Lacrosse On a Roll by Bill Endo Contributing Writer The men's lacrosse team has pulled to a 4-4 record. The 14-7 win over the nationally ranked St. Lawrence Saints put a new life into the team. In the past fifteen years, Union has won only once before at St. Lawrence. The offense was on fire. Ted Side) started the offense off by scoring the first goal in the first few minutes. Then everything fell into place. The other starting attack men, Dave Parrott and Paul Wakino, made their contribution to the win. The offense took ad- vantage of all the opportunities that the Saints gave them; and aggressive riding kept the ball with the offense for the majority of the game. Midfielder Cory Holbrough, proved his outside shot to be as potent as usual, putting his shots right on target. Gary Edmands and Leigh Schmitt also racked up a few points. The defensive midfielders also played very well. They kept the cutters under con- trol and were very effective in clearing the ball. Defenseman Eric Williams was on fire. He flustered the Saints' attackmen and midfielders with his incredible checks, and he added to their goalie's severe case of shell shock. Eric Skulte, Scott Lent, and Owen McCarthy kept control of the crease and brought the ball back down to the offense. They also helped the goalie hold the Saints to seven goals. Goalie Steve Rotkiewicz had a great game. Communication was dif- ficult because of high winds but, he kept tlie defense in line and only allowed three goals during Continued on page 23 fighting hard in the final minutes of the gam~, and with 1:29 left in regulation; Union looked ready to take Hartwick into overtime down by a goal with the score 12- 11. At that moment, Hillary Jospe appeared to make a clutch save, yet in a questionable call, the of- ficial ruled a goaL Apparently, the ball bounced off the crossbar Continued on page 23 ·Women's Rugby Battles Colgate Courtesy of U. W.R. F. C . The Union College Women's Rugby Team made the infamous journey to Colgate this weekend, but this time they actually knew how to get there, and thus ar- rived unscathed. The ruggers had heard tales of the how the powerful Colgate team had been the guests of honor at the World Cup, but Union remained un- daunted. As inspirational serum captain Eileen Calkin reflected, \It's not whether you win or lose, it's not how you play the game-it's how fast you can get off the field!'' The action started off quickly, and the line-· anxious to put last week's performance behind them-actually ran with the ball, a novel concept indeed. The ball moved quickly and ef- ficiently up the field, but the powerful Cheetahs (or whatever Colgate's called) were too much for the Dutchwomen. Toby \The Mighty Wing\ of Colgate put the Emmet Smith moves on a confused Stacey Fellows at fullback, and left the entire Union team eating her dust as she flew into thetry zone. Hold- ing their heads high, Union ral- u t: lied and pushed back at Colgate, @ with carries by Kim Sanabia, ~ Wendy Stephenson, and Rachel z Conaty all coming close to a .u· score. At the half however, it .§. remained Colgate's game, 5-0. tll . ..., During the second half, Union ~ continued to show improve- - ] ment, especially with the a. serum's success· in winning lineouts, a job they were unable to do last weekend. Toby once again scored with a speedy breakaway, but was held off later with a crushing tackle from the duo of Stephenson and Amy Klaucke. Union's serum got down and di~ty, setting up a scoring opportunity, but the Dutchwomen were denied, and the second half ended with Colgate scoring once more. Colgate let out their alums for the B-game, and loaned Union a prop and hooker. One alum in particular seemed to take plea- sure in head-bashing, as Ally Wheeler and Tiffany Lussier found out the hard way. To let her know that Union would not let this go unnoticed, Line Cap- tain Barb McCuen made the NFL Tackle of the Week, and wrapping her arm around the alum's neck, threw her to the ground. Fortunately, it went unnoticed by the ref, who was busy breaking up a ruck because fly-half Lussier let out an ear- piercing scream for no apparent reason. the B-game emted in a 0-0 tie.~ The team would like to thank their two fans for making the long trek, the brothers ofPhi Tau for their hospitality and jello, and the State Trooper who pulled Eileen over on the way home, but dido 't give her a ticket. Come watch the team this Saturday as they meet their arch• rivals Albany State at h·igh noon. Do not forsake us. I ., I

. April 28, .1994 · . . ~.· Women's, Lacrosse Impressive in 13~t·t L9s~ to #2ll~r.twi.ck ,- ' • \ '~ ',, . ,'_ ' -· ' j' • • . . '' ' '-; ·.' • . • ' ':. : • : . - ; ·. . . . . . . . . - . . ' by Rob Malfetano & Matt <;,~abowski Conr;ordiensiS Sports . · This past Tuesday HartWick ·•· · College rolled' into sun ripened . ~chenectady, boasting. an impr€:s;:, sive 8\'4 record and the .number two ranking in th.e. •state, The · Dutchwomen (5·7} looked to continue their .recent success and keep the momenwm g~ned over the weekend with a decisive 16- ,4 victqry over v ~sar C~Ueg~ .... · The Dutcih.women kep.t pace ·• . · with a splid Hartwic.k team thtoughoutthe, game, despite sus- pect officiating and poor sportS· manship on the part of the visi- tors. Both teams capitalized on penalties, Maria Zukowski and Captains Mindy Kessler and Wendy Miller all scored off Hartwick infractions. The game was never out of reach for ·either team. Despi.te crisp passing, and heads up .play, the Dutchwomen co~ld only muster a 6-6 tie at the half. Union came out strong in the second half, with Jen Manna go- ing coast to coast, weaving her way through the aggressive. Hartwick defense to chalk up her first of two such goals in the game. Minutes later, Molly Pearsall came from behind the Hartwick net, in what appeared to be a routine play, With her back to the net, she fired the ball over her shoulder, faking theHartwick goaltender out of her pads, giv- ing the Dutch women a l0-9lead. Pearsall gave the Hartwick netminder plenty to think about on the long ride back to Oneonta, tallying four goals that after- noon .. The Dutchwomen were still Men's Lacro.sse On a Roll. by Bill Endo CQntributing Writer The men's lacrosse team has pulled to a 4-4 record. The 14-7 win over the nationally ranked St. Lawrence Saints put a new life into the team. In the past fifteen years, Union has won only once before at St. Lawrence. The offense was on fire. Ted Sidel started the offense off by scoring the first goal in the first few minutes. Then everything fell into place. The other starting attack men, Dave Parrott and Paul Wakino,. made their contribution to the win. The offense took ad- vantage of all the opportunities that the Saints gave them; and aggressive riding kept the ball with the offense for the majority ofthe game. Midfielder Cory Holbtough, proved his outside shot to be as potent as usualt putting his shots right on target. Gary Edmands and Leigh Schmitt also racked up a few points. The defensive. midfieldets also played very well. They kept the cutters under con ... trol .and were very effective in clearing the balL Defenseman Eric Williams was on fire. He flustered the Saints; attackmen and midtielders with his incredible checks, and he added to theirgoalie's severe case of shell shock.. Eric Skulte, Scott Lent, and Owen McCarthy kept control of the crease and brought the ball back down to the offense. They also helped the goalie hold the Saints to seven goals. Goalie Steve Rotkiewicz had a gr.eat game. Communication was dif- ficult because of high winds but, he kept tlie defense in line and only allowed three goals during Continued on page 23 fighting hard in the final minutes ofthegame, and with 1:29leftin regulation, Union lQOked ready to take Hartwick into overtime down by a goal with the sc()~;e12- ll. At that moment, Hillary Jospe appeared to make a clutch save~ yet in a questionable call, the of;. ficial ruled a goal. Apparently, the bait bounced off the crossbar Continued Qn page 23 Wo.men 's Rugby Battles Colgate Cot,irtesy of U. W.R. F.i: \ serum's success· in winning lineouts, a job they were unable The Union College Women's to do last weekend. Toby once Rugby Team made the infamous again scored with a speedy journey to Colgate this weekend, breakaway, but was held off but this time they actually knew later with a crushing tackle from . how to get there, and thus ar- the duo of Stephenson and Amy rived unscathed. The ruggers Klaucke. Union's serum got had heard tales of the how the down and dir.ty, setting up a powerful Colgate team had been scoring opportunity, but the the guests of honor at the World Dutchwomen were denied, and Cup, but Union remained un- the second half ended with daunted. As inspirational serum Colgate scoring once mpre. captain Eileen Colkin reflected, Colgate let out their alums for \It's not whether you win or the Begame, and loaned Union lose, it's not how you play the a prop and hooker~ One alum in game--it's how fast you can get particular seeme4 to take pleli~ off the field!\ sure in head-bashing, as Ally The action started off quickly, · Wheeler and Tiffany Lussier and the line--anxious to put last found out the hard way. To let week, s performance. behind her know that Uirl:on woul'd not them-actually ran with the let this go unnoticed, Line Cap- . ball,· a novel concept indeed. tain Barb McCuen made the The ball moved quickly and ef- NFL Tackle of the Week, .and ftciently up the field, but the wrapping her arm around the powerful Cheetahs (or whatever alum's neck, thtew her· to the Colgate'scalled)wel.'etoo.rnuch ground. Fortunately, it went fQr the Dutchwomen. Toby unnoticed by the· ref~ who was . \The Mighty Wing'' ()f Colgate . busy breaking up a ruckhecause • put th(;! Emmet St1lith moves·on fly .. half Lussier let out an ear~ a confused Stacey FeUows i,lt piercing scream for no apparent fullback, and left the entire reason .. · the J3 .. game enct_ed in a • Union team eating her dust as 0-0 tie. -. . sheflewintothetcyzone. Hold- Theteamwouldlike to thank· · ing their heads high~ Union rat- theit two fans. for making the · · li~d and pushe4back at Colgate, long trek, the brothers ofPhi Tau · · :With carries by Kim Sanabia, . for their hospitality. and Jello, Wendy Stephenson; and Rachel and the State Trooper· who . . Conaty aU coming clo~e to a . pulled Eileen over on the way score. ·At the half however, it . hom~. but didn't give 'her a . remained Colgate~s. game 1 5-0. ticket. Comewatchthetemnthis During. the second halt:.Union Saturday as they meet their arch• · continued to show im'Ptove.. rivals Albany State at high ment, especially with the noon. Do not forsake us. . ' ''-! J . I I

The Success of Union Sports HOCKEY CREW FOOTBALL SWIMMING WOMEN'S SOCCER WOMEN'S TENNIS FIELD HOCKEY WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY J\pril

' ' ' ,_' ; -~ ' ' I I I ' '~!' J 1 , I •• \: j ' l The Success of Union Sports HOCKEY CREW FOOTBALL SWIMMING WOMEN'S SOCCER WOMEN'S TENNIS FIELD HOCKEY WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY J\prH

i I . ; 1 l \ \ Page 2 A Product of ijJJre <llnncnrbiensis David Levine, Heather Reynolds Editors-in-chief Scopes Editor Photo Editor Copy Editor Bill Shakos Josh Haines Diana Sedita Cover design and layout by David Levine '95 Scopes Contributors Lucinda Day Julie Ivanyi Wiliam Rice Photo Contributors Scott Druckemiller '97 Jeremy Smith '97 Luarel Ruma '97 Michele Roseman '97 Josh Haines '95 George Cuttita, SID Front page photo by Josh Haines Photo of hockey bench was taken from the roof of RPI's Houston Fieldhouse during Union's playoff series against the Engineers The Concordiensis Box 2577, Union College Schenectady, New York 12308 (518) 388~6155 (518) 388-6494 FAX - (518) 388-6260 SCOPES APRIL As the Athletic Director of Union Col- lege since 1977, Dick Sakala has given more to the success of athletics than any man or woman in this position could be asked to. In his 1 5 years as athletic director, he has greatly contributed to the school's improve- ment of its athletic facilities. Improvements include those to the Memorial Field House, the addition of Frank Bailey Field, Garis Field and the new renovations to Alumni Gym, which may soon see the extension of a new, highly developed weight lifting fa- cility. For his outstanding contributions to the college, Mr. Sakala was presented with the Alumni Associations Faculty Meritori- ous Service Award in 1984 and was in- ducted into the Western Pennsylvania Al- legheny-Kiski Valley Sports Hall of Fame for his many contributions and achieve- ments to college athletics at Union and Co- lumbia in May of 1991. Aside from his achievements at Union, Sakata is also on the ECAC's championship football commit- tee, the football executive committee, and the ice hockey tournament committee. Sakala is anything but amazed by the suc- cess of Union athletics this season. He at- tributes this success to a core of excellent coaches and an extremely supportive stu- dent body. He knows that with the recent success of Union, coaches have to work vezy hard to achieve the high standard of excel- lence that is expected of them. As for the student body, Mr. Sakala believes that there is a special feeling one gets when one at- tends Union sporting events. The support at the football playoff game and the hockey playoff game at RPI are considered prime examples by Sakal a ofhow important sports are to the school. \I believe that the student body wants our teams to do well and it shows by their support.\ According to Sakala, the tum- . ing point for · Union athletics came in 1977 when ·the col- lege left the NESCAC con- ference and be- came indepen- dent. Some of the reasons for leaving the NESCAC con- ference are that any school in that league was (I) not allowed to recruit off campus players, (2) not allowed to have personal contact with prospects and (3) there were no NCAA post season appearances for any team. By join- ing the ECAC, Union athletics were free from these limitations. As a result of the The most surprising factor in all this is the fact that the Athletic Budget has stayed at a steady equilibrium. This points to the move, the re- cruiting pro- gram has picked up, al- lowing for a new genera- tion of higher \I believe that the student body wants our teams to do well and it shows by their support.\ conclusion that coaches and players are the ones who work hard to keep caliber athletes to come to Union to com- pete in the sports they love. the winning tradition at Union. l11is issue is devoted to their hard work and dedication. . re tf.l sent seVen swimmers . ·.$Wept to a national cham- representative ofthei·t ·n:·t· .)t)· 1t'fl. anbe'fjbtJ:et.. ··\'\\~ · · .. '.·. • ·. •. i sixdt .. ptae~ tlnisl\ i~~C:,~ . .~o .~e National Championships~> an~ had . pionsbip at thii' ~~·'Vail Regatta in Pennw ics to the students of:Uni<>fFCoft.i: . · ·. · · · · ·· · ·· ' · · · tneit best result ever - a sixth place finish. · sylvania. In tlu::~ tail, .Union began compet .. There bas been a lot O'f critieism of *'Fh'iwofti¢n 1 stennis team had tlteitbest Tfh\ly finished higher than any other team ing against teams from higher divisions. Unio.fi stUdents because some people be- seas.qtt'ift. scuool history, finishing tberegu- in New York State. including snme of the Ivy League's elite lieve that students are uuwiUing to truly lat seaS-on llt 7~2, including a five :match *The men's basketball team finished their boats at the Head of the Charles Regatta. dedicate tllemselves towards acc~pii~ winning ~irei:tk. the last three comtng on 9- most successful season in several seasons *The men's water polo team enjoyed na~ ing great things. One need only look at 0 shutouts of Oneonta; R.P .I., and Albany. with a J 6 .. 9 record. Included in the sixteen tional recogni.tion in the fall. Starting the the ac:hievements ofUmon's team'sporls Attl'l~'~St:aiemeet, the team finished' sixth. wins, are victories over then nationally regular season witha4-0 record, theDutch~ over~h~ Fatl at1d ~!!!t~t$PPtl$ ~dU$.tQ. , .~team. fin~ fourth .. r!ntked . William 80-78, and a dra· · · men were . high: $.eighth. in the . . ~· .. 1 · r.t: , n1 \':n.· w., .... u.,. ... 1 • \\'\' ~t: ..... ,..ml\\·'\\' .,.,..,..tt . .,.... . ~t, ..... ··r .. , .......... , ........ ,.,,.a··s,...·· 1 · \''t ··m#t~Y·· .: .. v~':til'M·f.,~!vUv!,.,··'\''\ ..... ~.·~ '\'\w V'''\\w\'7' \'·\'\'f ,,,,,,, .. ·~« 'hi.rfd•· . uie·· ~g-. ar .,:..,. · · ..n · \ tentl1~rankecl N.Y.U, a team wlticlueached 5~2-l after losing twice to third-ranked the Division lll National Championship. Cornell. Thetea.m was seeded second in The -Dutchmen· tec~v~a'·the';gl*:th S:~tr in:· \:flf(VNfid;J\.tr:anncmtonterence post-season the ECAC Upstate New York Toumament toumametlt. hef6te falling to Hamilton. . . this magazine is intendedto be a celebm- Also enjoying success have been the ~lub Hfin of the· past, j)resent. and future sue- sports~ wbich 1 despite not bein~ recognized oesses of athletics at Union College. Not as varsity sports by the athletic department, ·. · eveif team cart possibly be featured, but the l£a'\ire.e,;,mrlflelaHn1Jlf(l$$i'v-e.· records recently. · · u::mn~ · f(fbe highlighted represent Crew., which have ' . J } I! I ! /

' -; • ,, / APRIL SCOPES Page3 Women's Field Hockey Finishes 13tb Nationally by Billy Shakos '96 The success ofthe field hockey team has been anything but ordinary. Looking at her accomplishments, Coach Charlyn Robert is no stranger to success. She was named \Collegiate Female Coach of the Year\ by the Albany Chamber of Commerce in 1988. In that same season she led the field hockey team to a record setting 17 -I finish and an ECAC Champion- Charlyn Robert ducted on Astroturf, so the girls get a good feeling of the grounds, which are radically different from playing on grass. The big- gest secret (recruiting wise) that Coach Rob- ert has up her sleeve is that of a \network- like\ recruiting program, where alumni lend Record .37-24-S \1988 \College Female Coach of the Year\ \Coached 6 All- Americans, 3 academic all• Americans \Union invited to NYS Tournament in 6 of last lO years a hand in the search. In this so- called \network\, graduates of Union who played field hockey, pass the word about the success of the team, thus in- forming many of • the top high · school recruits of the tradition and L---------------------' success of the ship. In her first ten years at Union, the field hockey team has been invited to the New York State Women's Collegiate Ath- letic Association's post season tournament six times, placing as high as third in 1988. Overall she has recruited and coached six All-Americans, three of which were Aca- demic All-Americans. This fall the lady Dutchmen were ranked 8th in the country at the beginning of the season and later dropped to 13th, but still remained in the top 20. Recruiting! This is one of the main fac- tors in the success of the team. Coach Rob- ert explained that the key to her recruiting is the fact that her players must be versatile and skilled in more than one position\ \[The] players we look for have more than just varsity letters and a high school diploma.\ Coach Robert mentioned that many of her recruits have participated in out-of-school leagues such as Empire State and the United States \Future's\ and Development Pro- gram, where girls over and under the age of 15 go to enhance their skills on a Junior Olympic level. These camps are also con- sport at Union. The greater the success of the sport, the larger the network becomes. Coach Robert also believes that more stu- dent athletes are becoming coaches and are ·sending players to Union as well. So evi- dently, a strong recruiting program is the fundamental base for Coach Robert's sue- cess. Let us now put aside this hypothetical \jazz\ about networks and alumni recruit- ing and look at the real reasons for the team's success: What the athletes do when they get here! Coach Robert spoke highly of her two outstanding goalies in junior Jen Vernon and sophomore Elana Goldberg. \Jen has a lot of experience and is very consistent, while Elana is the spark that makes Jen work be- cause she is so competitive herself.\ Jen and Elana have played together since their fresh- man years and have worked hard together in order to become better. When commenting on her team as a whole, Coach Robert mentioned that the greatest things about her players is that they are their dedication and their friendships on and offthe field. This way, the players can fiJI those empty niches of success that they couldn't nonnally by just being teammates. \There also is a great chemistry amongst the players and staff on this team, as well as mutual respect for each other's abilities,\ says Robert, \and they are not afraid to push each other.\ Stars '93-'94 Wendy Miller Mindy Kessler Missy Lombardini Sue Halliday When asked who her stars were, Coach Roberts didn't hesitate to mention Wendy Miller, Mindy Kessler, Missy Lombardoni and Susan Halliday. Wendy Miller is a senior sweeper who has started since freshman year and has been captain for two years. Not only is she the controlling factor in the Dutch women's backfield, but she has a hit into the attack so strong that most teams could not find a way to stop her. Not only was Wendy a tre- mendous leader by example, but she was also an important transition player for the Dutchwomen from defense to offense. Fi- nally, when asked howto describe whatthe loss of Wendy Miller meant to the team, Coach Robert replied, \If we cannot find a anyone like her, then we will have to change our game plan.\ Yet another front-runner in the Union field hockey charge, is Mindy Kessler. Mindy is a senior, three year starter, two year captain and another tremendous leader by example. Mindy is the kind of player that is the first one to he on the field and last one to leave. She is a very versatile forward, midfielder and back (Yes. She's played all three with ease, but her main position is midfielder). Always the one to help others with their game, Mindy is a very personal- ized player who motivates others around her, and she'll always put in her 120%. \Mindy brings nothing to the field but her stick and her eagerness to play. She lets her stick do the talking,\describes Coach Rob- ert. Next we have Missy Lombardoni, a jun- ior midfielder, who was I st Team All-State and All-Regional. Missy is another leader by example, and is a tremendous transition player who takes the ball from the attack and goes in for the score. When asked to comment on Missy's playing, Coach Rob- ert replied, \Missy is where the ball is.\ Last, but most definitely not the least, is two year starter and top goal scorer this sea- son, Susan Halliday. With only two players graduating, almost the entire field hockey team is retuming to the field and their continued success seems otherwise inevitable. _Returning is a strong group of junior players fol1 owed by a steady class of sophomores, aJong with both goaltenders, Vernon and Goldberg. \Play- ing together for a few years as a young team gives our players a chance to learn how to read the game as well as read our opponents. TI1at is a big plusl\-Coach Charlyn Roberts Hockey Has Made Successful Transition to Division I by Billy Shakos '96 Judging by the past three season's records, you're probably wondering, \How did these guys get any ink?\ Prepare to be amazed! The 1994 ECAC \Coach of the Year,\ Bruce Delventhal, led the skating Dutchmen to their first Divi- sion I post-season this past winter. This is an amazing statistic consider- ing this past season was only the third season in Division I for the Dutchmen. But such an ac- Bruce Delventhal complishment only adds to coach Delventhal's already impressive career. After being an assistant coach at Princeton University for three years, coach Delventhal moved up to the head coach job at Rochester Institute of Technology in 1984. In that first season as head coach, he led the Tigers to the NCAA Division 111 National Championship, and to the ECAC Westem Division title the following year. At RIT, he led the Tigers to a four year mark of87-39-2, with four ECAC post-seasons, and two NCAA tournament appearances. This year, the Dutchmen skatP-d to a record of 15-11-4. Coach Delventhal attri b- uted most of this seasons success to this year's positive team attitude. \In a team sport like hockey there is no one thing or \1993 ECAC \Coach of the Year\ \'Division Ill record 52-22-8 \'Division I Records '91-'92 3-21-1 '92-'93 3-22-0 '93-94 15-ll-4\' \'Union reached ECAC Post-season one person that makes you great. It is everybody.\ This year was a good upgrading year for the team. There was better goaltending, bet- ter defense, better scoring and better all around play. Many of the play- ers that have been Quarterfinal Round on the team for the past two to three years, know what it is like to lose. This year they wanted to learn how to win to- gether!\ One important factor of this years suc- cess that many of us do not see, is the role that the school plays. \Our team's success is the school's success. We would not have been successful unless we had tremendous help from the Athletic Department, Rink Staff, Trainers, Admissions Office and most definitely the fans.\ Fans of Union Hockey not only came to the games and cheered their team on, but they also traveled with the team as weiJ. One prime example is the Union turnout at the post-season RPI game. Their support boosted the Dutchmen to a 4- 3 victory at RPI, putting them ahead I -0 in the series. It was this kind of support, be- lieves coach Delventhal, that made his play- ers pick-up their game. Stars '93-'94 When asked about the stars of the team, coach Delventhal was reluctant to mention any names because he believes that this year's success was a team success, and not attributable to a few great players. We all know freshman Chris Ford had 22 goals and 13 assists, as well as the great play of Troy Stevens, (6 goals and 28 assists) and Chris Albert. Reid Simonton was All-League Honorable Mention, and according to coach Delventhal, both Cory Holbrough and Scotty Boyd played superbly. Unforgetta- bly, without the playing of goaltender Mike Gallant, the team would not have done as well. His keen skill of knowing where the puck is at all times and quick reflexes con- tribute greatly to the team chemistry. Go- ing into the last week of the season he was in the top 10 in the country in save percent- age with .900. He had a season record of I 0-9-2. His teammate, Luigi Villa, also had a solid year with a .884 save percentage. And let's not forget Shane Holunga who de- serves a lot of credit for playing the whole Goalie Mike Gallant season in pain with a bad back. \These are the guys I would like to give credit to, be- cause if we do not have them all working hard and doing what they do then we are in trouble.\ -Coach Del venthal. While mouming the loss of Senior Cap- tain Jeff Jiampetti, the Dutchmen have ev- eryone else returning. So look for another dynamite year from this year's ECAC play- off participants.

Freshman standouts Troy Stevens and Chris Ford against Clarkson Chris Irving in Union's vict1 Women's Swimming off the blocks.16 Union swin Women's Soccer finished the season 8-6-1. I I -- ~- ,_. --::::::;;. \ r:._ b. -_~·~·.~~~~...::::~~~......:;;;;. ............. -~- l _ _::: ____________ ._~-~--- Women's Field Hockey this past fall Women's Cross Country at the start vs. Ha

in Union's victory over Dickinson. 16 Union swimmers went to Nationals this winter. start vs. Hamilton __ ..... ~··· ~:'?!Cr.,. Men's Novice crew winning their race in the Colgate meet. John Sicinski beats Neil Little with this wrap-around in Union's 4-3 playoff win . The offensive line of the Figl1ting Dutchmen vs. Albany

1 ( i ( Page 6 APRIL Swimming Establishes National Reputation Men by Billy Shakos '96 son the men broke eighty percent of the now fa11en school records. Still not satisfied? Also consider that the men won twelve out ,----~----.. 8 Year Union Coach oftwenty events in the state championships Susan Bassett \'1993 NYSWCAA and CSCA \Coach of the Year\ \'Women's six-year record (48-7) *Men's five-year record (28-16) *Women- Top 4 in NYS last five years \'3 Straight top-ten national finishes *Coached 23 state Stars 93-94 · and out of those twelve events, ten ofthem were new New York State records! This was defi- nitely a season that will not be forgotten m Scott Bowden (Top Left) Bill Humphreys (Bottom Left) Chip Quarrier (Top Right) Although the entire men's team deserves a round of applause and a pat on the back, there were a few swimmers who deserve a spot in the sun. Scott Bowden , a Junior went to the state championship and won three in- dividual events, which is the most you can win, making him the state champ. The coaches at the meet voted Scott the out- standing athlete of the state championships. Women's Cross Country Highs *Defeated Hamilton Twice - first time in Union History *Next Year's Coach- Charlie Casey He also qualified for the nationals, but did not score. Although being state champion would be enough to satisfy most of our ego's, it was not enough to satisfy Scott's. Coach Bassett explained with pride that within two weeks ofthe season's end Scott was back in weight room working for next season. Coach Bassett says he is very moti- vated, making all the optional morning prac- tices and is doing everything possible to re- turn to the states and nationals not only as an individual, but as a team-~ember. Other players who are worth more than just mentioning, are captains Bill Humphreys and Chip Quarrier, who also qualified for the nationals thisyear, and cap- tain Chris Yousey. These players, along with three outstanding freshmen, and the rest of the men's swim team are determined and focused on returning, and hopefully winning the state championships next season. Women Although the success of the men's team was a welcomed surprise, the women's con- tinued stardom is anything but a surprise. Along with a 8-1 record this season, which brought them a state championship over Ithaca's dynasty, the women have only lost eight dual meets in the past eight years. This comes out to a not so shabby average of one loss a season. Consistent you say? How about the fact that the women's swim team has finished in th~ top three in the state championships for the past five years , and in the top ten in the nationals for the past three years. Neither success or consistency are new to the women who swim for Union. Strategically, coach Bassett says that she tries to bring a ''team\ concept to swimming, which is such an individual sport. She at- tributes her success to a good nucleus of players and good recruiting. \The state championship was on our minds since the beginning,\ says the coach, \we've worked hard all season and it has been a tremen- do us team effort.\ One area of the team that coach Bassett thinks has improved is that of free-style swimming; with the addition of freshman Jackie Crane and CeCe Buchanan. Both swimmers did well in the state tournament, qualified for the nationals, and both broke school records this season. Jenn Allaire, Kelly Bevan, Jen Baldwin and Jackie Crane also won the state championship in the 400 meter medley relay with a time of 4:05.58. Four swimmers who not only contributed to the team's success, but improved on their own abilities, were Kelly Bevan, Jen Baldwin, Jenn Allaire, and Natasha.Zabka. Stars 93-94 Jen Baldwin Jenn Allaire TashaZabka Kelly Bevan, a senior two-year captain who is a tremendous leader by example, has quaJified for the nationals all of her four years as a Union swimmer and is a four time All-American. She won events in the 50, 100, and 200 meter breaststroke titles in the states and is a national qualifier witl1 her time in the 200 meter breaststroke. Coach Bassett cited that she has gotten better with the every new season. \She is the kind of player that makes you think,' how much faster can she get?,' as she continues to get faster with every race.\ The best example coach Bassett gave was her improvement of an amazing 1 .5 seconds on her breast- stroke. Other superstars include senior captain Jen Baldwin, who is a two-year national qualifier in the breaststroke and sprint- freestyle; sophomore Jen Allaire won state championships in the 200 and 400 meter individual medley, while finishing second in the I 00 meter individual medley. She also was state champion in her event two years in a row, was a national qualifier and an All- American. Last, but not least, we have Natasha Zabka who is a senior, and deu scribed by her coach as, \the best diver in New York State for the last three years. At the state championships she won the one and three meter diving titles, and was named the meet's \Outstanding Diver\ for the third consecutive year. Interest Meeting for Scopes Monday, May 2 Concordy Office CC303 7:00p.m.

APRIL SCOPES Page7 Crew Team Strokes Its Way to Division I hy Lucinda Day '96 TI1e Union crew team has been on the rise for the last three years. Although it only has club status right now, the de- siou and are now eligible to race against such teams as Duke and Harvard. This is not an NCAA sport, but its divisions are determined by each team's standing at the end of the racing season. Last year, the Union team went :1c1993 Division HI to the Dad Vail cision was made to National Champs Regatta in Penn- upgrade it to Var- :~c Union Crew will sylvania, but next sity status by 1997. be a Division I year they are hop- TheStudent Forum Varsity sport in ing to be invited to has given much 1997. the Champion In- support to this ternational College large club team Regatta (CIRC), consisting of 80 which is a much members (which more competitive makes it second in division of the size only to the sport. football team). Jim Crick Jim Crick indi- Student Activities L----------------....J cated that patt of and President Hull are currently deciding how to allocate the increased budget granted to this team. The coaches, with Jim Crick as head, will become formal members of the athletic department. Three years ago, crew was just another club sport at Union with only one part time coach. Now, the team is driven by three part-time coaches and one full-time coach. This past year they moved up by one divi- his strategy for the upcoming years is the superior training of the present novice row- ers who will eventually be the varsity row- ers. Such superior training cames .from three seasons of racing, weight lifting and mn- ning on the part of the rowers themselves and from the constant encouragement, en- thusiasm and advice of the novice coaches, Ava Kovach and Steve Mooar. Simulta- neously, the varsity women's coach Alex Emil, a graduate student at Union, is a su- perb influence on the present Varsity team. The team as a whole is acquiring a great reputation for Union, but more specifically, there are some team members who stand out in their ability and in their dedication . For the women, Kristina Frenyea '94, strives to help the team get faster. She displayed her dedication and skill this past year by train- this sport has not been raised to varsity level before now. These team members should be commended for their perseverance, dedi- cation and success in their rowing careers. Up until the time when this team receives its new budget, the team members have had to devote not only their time and energy for the love of this sport, but also their money. Their present budget does not cover travel- .ing herself to row on the op- posite side of the boat than she was used to. Appar- ently, this is an extremely ing ex- Although it [crew] only has a penses or I b • h b room and c u status rig t now' t e board on decision was made to u.pgrade the road. T h e s e it to varsity status by 1997. sometimes --------------------- costly ex- difficult feat. Also, Caroline Nemet, a fresh- man, deserves recognition for her national ranking in the women's novice 8 boat. On the men's side, Matt Kirk, a senior, is president of the team. Last year he won the men's lightWeight 4 and then bulked up his weight in order to qualify to row in the heavyweight 8. Also, Matt Forster, a jun- ior, is one of the top five strongest rowers in the country at this level and wishes to lead the Union team to the national cham- pionship level. With such talent, it is hard to believe that penses had to be paid for by the team mem- bers themselves. However, one of the top priorities of head coach Jim Crick is to de- fray these costs so the students don't have to pay as much, if anything, when traveling to races. Upon seeing the potential of the present team, the enthusiasm of the incoming mem- bers increased greatly, which also motivated the rest of the team. With this type of team encouragement and the increase of compe- tition from their national division, the Union crew team has high hopes for the future. Women's Tennis Has Most Successful Season Ever by Billy Shakos '96 The women's tennis team is another Union sport which has excelled this year. In only her first year as head coach, Joanne Little has started off with much success. (one of their goals), and a second place fin- ish at the Division ill New State Champi- onships for the third doubles team of Amy Kessinger and Rachel.Goldfine. As a team, the lady Dutchmen placed 6th at these NYS Championships, the highest ranking ever achieved by a women's tennis team in Union history! As a result of *First Year Coach: this miraculous -7-2 Record finish, the -Participant in NYS Tournament -Best Finish in NYS Tournament in Union History (6th) -Team Ranked 17th in the East Region women's tennis team finished 17th overall in the East. A lot of the light can be shined on play- ers such as jun- iors Julie Ander- Previously Joanne Little coached women's varsity basketball and women's volleyball. Now she recruits for these three sports and coaches basket- ball ful1- time too. The previous coach of the tennis team, Stan Majerowski, was only part-time. Joanne Little takes on the job full-time, Joanne Little son and Chantal ~--------------~~~~~===-~VonSahar, the making it possible for present and incom- ing players to have an administrator on the campus and someone they could talk to for any assistance they might need. Coach Little believes that a strategy in which goals are set for each practice and an extreme amount of motivational spirit will bring a stronger base for competition to the team. Such coaching techniques paid off as their record went from 7-4, last year, to 7-2 this year. Coach Little, as well as her players, had set many goals for the team this past year. (1) As a team, they hoped to win the RPI Invitational as revenge for their runner-up finish the year before; (2) She would like to improve the team's perfonnance in their dual matches; (3) Lastly, Joanne wishes to enter New York State Championships with a higher ranking then before. Looking at the amount of improvement from last year and the arrival of a full-time coach, these goals were not in any way unattainable. Under their new coach, the team enjoyed two big wins against Hamilton and Vassar, a first place finish at the RPI Invitational top two singles players on the team and the 3rd doubles team of Amy Kessinger and Rachel Goldfine, and senior captain Blaire Spritzer. Julie Anderson Blaire Spritzer Amy Kessinger Rathel Goldfine Although coach Little credits this year's success to a team oriented, group of fine fe- male tennis players, she mentioned four key play~rs that. kept the team focusectand de- tennined for victory. Blaire Spritzer, Julie Anderson, Amy Kessinger and Rachel Goldfine. Senior captain Blaire Spritzer, who played 3rd singles this year, held a record of 7-5 and kept the team motivated as a tremen- dous leader by example. \She is a great player, and the most unselfish person on the court. She'll practice hard during the sea- son and carry that intensity into the off sea- son when training begins.\ Junior Julie Anderson plays 1st singles for the team and according to coach Little has the toughest schedule of anyone on the team. Julie finished with record of I 0-2 and was ranked by the International Tennis As- sociation as 13th in the East Region, (Con- sisting of New England, New York, Penn- sylvania and New Jersey), and 43rd in the Nation. One main highlight of Julie's sea- son was when she defeated Becky Mallory of Williams. \So what?\ is what your prob- ably thinking. But consider the fact that with Julie's win, the Dutchwomen scored their first point against Williams in seven years, ending a long string of annual shut-out vic- tories against Union. Next, we have the 3rd doubles team of sophomore Amy Kessinger and junior Rachel Goldfine who finished with a record of8-1. Amy and Rachel also play as singles. Rachel played 4th singles with a record of Il-l and Amy played 5th doubles with a record of 8- I. Coach Little mentioned that she planned to split the women up at the beginning of the season and set them with different partners. Bl1l with the confidence that they had in each other, Rachel and Amy approached the first year coach and told her that they would like to play together and convinced her that they would be success- ful. As a result of their efforts, the women finished as runners-up in the NYS Cham pi- onships, a finish that would make any coach confident in of her players. \These were the two who broke a lot of dead-lock ties dur- ing the sea.son. When the match was on the line in the tie-breaking game of 3rd doubles, these girls pulled through and won it for us.\-Coach Little. Although the team will mourn the lose of senior captain Blaire Spritzer's leadership qualities, the future for women's tennis at Union looks very promising. Retuming will be junior Chantal VonSaharwho played 2nd singles with a record of 8-4 last year. Also returning will be both Rachel Goldfine and Amy Kessinger, the superb doubles and singles players and top-player Julie Ander- son. Unfortunately, not mentioned are the stellar underclassmen like sophomore Joanna Friedman and freshmen Emily Schreier and Allisen Moore, who are the next generation of great women tennis play- ers at Union, with their strong performances last year. It will be young players, like these, that Coach Little will rely on the achieve any goals that the team might set in the fu- ture. \In the long-run I want my players to put things into perspective and like what they are doing.\-Coach Joanne Little. Julie Anderson approaches the ball

----,--.,..·~-----\ ··-------· __. . .::,_·_· _·. _ __:. _____ _ PageS SCOPES APRIL Fighting Dutchmen: Perennial National Powerhouse by Billy Shakos '96 In his first returning season as head coach, Audino led the Dutchmen to a moderate 6- 3 record. ll1at was two years ago. then, he has began a stellar lifting and runmng program, which arc open to the entire campus, · <md has kept a bet- tcr tab on his players, both phys.ically and academically. I h: also keeps in lom:h with his players over the summer, and has Sin...:e *Led lin ion to 4 NCAA Division Ill Playoffs: 3 as assistant coach, and . 1 as Head coach *Undefeated, 9-0 this season *Dutchmen Defense ranked 4th in the Nation in total defense man a g c d t u .--~=:::====;-iE===iiir=iiiiiiiiiiiiiiii;--.iiiiiiiiiiiii==!.-..:...:........, change their attitudes\\\\\-- about team play. Coach Audino cashed in on all the extra time and ef- fort this sea- Marco Lainez Craig Mosia son, compiling a dominant 9-0 record and receiving a bid to the NCAA Division Ill playoffs (Something he has already done three times before as assistant coach). too small a word to describe the offense as it controlled the time of possession stats in all but one game last season. Offensively, Union averaged 32 points a game. They mshed for an average of 200 yards a game. Contributing to the running attack were senior Mike Rausco and sopho- more Frank Attah, both fullbacks. Union also outscored their opponetlls 287 to 87 this season. Although, having a good offense and a nationally ranked defense makes winning a lot easier, there arc still other factors that we, as outsider's, don't sec that greatly in- nuemc the success of the team. Coach Audino mentioned, ''we have a lot of emo- tions that people can't sec or feel on the field. We feel that we have to prove our- selves every game, and we do that with high levels of emotion and determination.\ Audino knows that his players might not be the most talented on the field at all times, but he also knows that they have taken it upon themselves to be the best they can pos- sibly be, and that is what makes them bet- ter than their opponents. lie described to me that he has not seen a more dctcnnincd and emotional team before than this one and continued to compare it with the I 0-0 Penn team that he coached in 1986. What makes recruiting hard for Union is that at the Division Ill level you are not al- lowed to give scholarships, so the only way to attract players is by having a reputation for excellence, which seems to be the case for Union. STARS '93-'94: Although Coach Audino mentioned al- most every player on the starting team, in- cluding Offensive linemen Greg Oswitt and Dan Plankans he focused his main com- ments on junior running back Chris Irving. Senior linebacker Marco La inez, and Senior Craig Mosia. Junior Running Back Chris Irving led the Dutchmen in rushing for the second straight year, with 862 yards. Irving is a very versa- tile player, who has good hands. lie has ex- cellent vision of the playing field and he hits the holeshard. On the other side of the coin. he bounces out to the side li ncs and make it a race for the end zone. Irving was selected as one of next years captains along with jun- ior free-safety Kevin Weedmark. Linebackers Marco Lainez and Craig Mosia arc both tremendous leaders by ex- ample .. 'They, as middle linebackers, shut down our opponents inside running game and forced them to run outside.\ Coach Audino mentioned that, like every other player on the team, they trained hard dur- ing the off-season and took it upon them- selves to do better as captains. Graduating this year is the entire defen- sive line and one ~econdary player. Offen- sively only two linemen, Greg Oswitt and Dan Plankans, and fullback Craig Rauseo are graduating. Retuming are all of the run- ning backs. including Chris Irving and Frank Allah. all ofthe tight-ends, all of the quarterbacks and three of.the five offensive linemen. Hopefully the Dutchmen are play- off bound once more. The success of the football team this sea- son only adds to the long list of Dutchmen ptgskm success. Since 1982, Union's over- all record has been an unbelievable 121-25- 1, with no losing seasons, seven NCAA playoff bids, 13 playoff appearances, an EC AC North Championship in 1990 (9-1 ), and two appearances in the Stagg Aowl (Division Ill National Championship game). in 1983 and 1989. Also. they have been undefeated in five of the last nine seasons. Union continues to be in the top five in the country and coach Audino plans to keep it that way. He comn.ents. \It's tough. People won't fall and play dead if you just show up. You need to work hard to stay competi- tive.'' Women's Soccer Reaches States ·n,e big improvements for the teattl this year came on defense. where they got quicker and stronger. with a better second- ary. and better success against the run. Coach Audino described the unit as a \A tough, nasty. blue-collar defense.\ TI1is can be attributed to an all senior defensive line, defensive ends, and middle linebackers, and one defensive back, (8 out of II were se- niors). Playing big for the Dutchmen all sea- son was this defensive line and the lineback- ers, who kept opponents under 100 total rushing yards a game. TI1e All-senior line of Greg Holmes (LE), David Mock (LT), Lewis Acquarulo (NG), Craig Bronder.(RT) and Mark Mulholland (RE) played remark- ably well against the run. Also contributing to the stellar defense of Union were Marco Lainez (LLB) and Craig Mosia (RLB). lllc secondary had two senior's, Matt Sclun ittcr (SS) and Paul Haydock (RCB), who also helped make the dutchmen nationally ranked in . Union was ranked 4th in the country in total defense, as they didn't al- low their opponents to gain over 200 yards of total offense a game. Also defensively, the Dutchmen did a !,l'feat job containing their opponents, and allowed them to score only 9.7 points per game. This year's offense was not as good, num- ber wise as other years, but it was timely, and successful when it needed to be, scor- By Julie lnanyi '96 Once again, the Women's soccer team impressed us an with their perfonnance this year. For the second year in a row, they made it to the New York State Tournament. Their outstanding roster is what makes this team stand out .above the rest. A team with such talent as this one is usually accom- panied by a coach with equally distin- guished credentials. Coach Suzanne Pedone came to Union in 1989, and since then has led women's soccer to its success. Coach Pedone attributes the team's achievements to successive good recruit- ing years, and changes in fonnations on the field. In the past few years coach Pedone has witnessed an increase in talent of her players. A couple of years ago, the talent was centralized to particular areas around the country, but now there is more ·talent to spread out amongst the competi- tion. Most of the good recruits have played in competitive soccer leagues since they were seven or eight years old. Although this broader spectrum allows for easier re- cruiting, it is now more competitive and . harder to attract the athletes to come to Union. The new fonnation on the field in re- . cent years has helped this team to perfonn as they have. The team now plays with three forwards, three midfields, and four backs. This suits the team's personnel, and allows for substitutes to come in whenever needed. Having one goalie, Jert Manna, has made the past three seasons tough , but challenging for her. There are two new goalies coming in to add to the -defensive Suzanne Pedone roster. This will enable enduring practices to take place more often. Jen 's great talent as a goalie contributed to the team's post season play. Other key changes have been more intense practice sessions and the knowledge of good incoming recruits. Two freshman that really stood out this year were Amy Powell and Danielle Spitz. Amy has a great desire to step in whenever she is needed. In her first game, Amy scored to win the game against Skidmore. Danielle came through for the team and really showed her talent on the field. l11e freshmen class this year is equally as talented, but unfortu- nately there are less openings to start. But, coach Pedone feels that the playing time they received was a great addition to their expe .. rience as college players. A tougher schedule has propelled the team to some of its improvements over the past few years. This rigorous schedule was created due to the improvements of both Union and the competition. A more \at- tacking\ type of game is what coach Pedone tries to instill in her players, \I would like to pursue a more attacking type of game and try to incorporate everyone on the field, both offensive and defensive players.\ When asked to name a few star players, Pedone responded by explaining that she prefers to think of her whole team as stars and not to single out any one individual. But by looking at the slats of the year, it is difficult not to point out some key play- ers. Heather Rock, Kim Fanning and Nicole Solomos were leading scorers. Fanning and Solomos each had six goals, and Rock had seven. Jen Manna had 252 shots against her, only permitting 30 goals to get through. Captains for next year's team are Heather Guantt, Jen Manna, and Danielle Shelov. They are promising another season filled with tri- umph. l11e future of women 'ssoccer is a bright one. TI1e departing seniors, although they will be missed, have talented. underclass- men to replace them. Pedone has noticed a continuing improvement over the past few years and hopes to maintain a .500 record each year. This will put them in a good position to be invited to the State Tournament each year. This is their im- mediate goal for the next two years. They hope to eam a good seed in the tournament, and once there, be able to prove themselves to the rest of the competition. ~. . ' ,!~:J·:;.

Page 8 SCOPES APRIL Fighting Dutchmen : Perennial National Powerhouse by Billy Shakos '96 ing 19 touchdowns. Another plus for Union is that quarterback Scott Newton is 12-1 as In his first returning season as head coach, a starter and was the top ranked quarter- Audino led the Dutchmen to a moderate 6- back in the Upstate regiotL Contributing to 3 record. That was two years ago. SitH.:e the team's success was junior nmning back then, he has began r;::;;=~;;;:::;;;;;;:=;-----------~ Chris lrvi·ng, who astcllarliftingand *Led Union to 4 led the team in nmBmg program. NCAA Division II I rushing for the sec- which are open to Playoffs: 3 as ond straight year the entire campus. assistant coach, and with 862 yards this ;md has kept a bet- I as Head coach season. Although ter tab on his *Undefeated, 9-() offensively there players, both this season were only four physically and *Dutchmen Defense senior's the plily of academically. I Ic ranked 4th in the Joe Ruggeri (SE). .dso keeps iu Nation in total Stephen CHsic tuuch with his defense (FL). catching players over the llasses and Greg .John Audino summ cr. and h_a_s -======.---mi:===:;;;;;:::;;,;;;;;;;;liiiiemmr::::!.....=O:...:s:...:· \~Vi t t ( R G) a 11 d managed to ..- D a 11 change their PI aka n attitudes\\\\\--- ( L T) about team open111g play. Coach up holes. A u d i n o helped the cashed in on Union of- all the extra fense do it time and ef- fort this sea- 1\la reo La inez Craig Mosia best this Chris Irving season. son, compiling a dominant 9-0 record and receiving a bid to the NCAA Division III playotTs (Something he has already done three times before as assistant coach). Coach Audino's offensive strategy is to control the clock and score points. But if you play a conservative game, like Union, then your play-calling is critical. \You've got to mix-up the calls, because you may score a lot of points by passing 50-60 times a game, but your defense is on the field a long time. and that doesn't give you a lot of wins.\ In fact, \conservauve\ might be too smaJ;I a word to describe the offense as i,t controlled the time of possession stats in aU but one game last season. Offensively, Union averaged 32 points a game. They rushed for an average of 200 yards a game. Contributing to the running attack were senior Mike Rauseo and sopho- tnore Frank Attah, both fullbacks. UnioH also outscored their opponerHs 287 to 87 this season. Although. having a good offense and a nationally ranked defense makes winning a lot easier, ti,Jcrc arc still other factors that \\l\ as outsiJcrs. don't sec that greatly in- fluence the success of the team. Coach Audino mentioned, \we have a lot of emo- tions that people can't sec or feel on the field We feel that we have to prove our- selves ever) game. and we do that with high kvels of emotion and detenniJ,Jation.\ Audino knows that his players might not be the most talented on the field at all times. hut he also knows that they have taken it upon themselves to be the best they can pos- sibly be, and that is what makes them bet- ter than their opponents.! Ic described to me that he has uot seen a more detennined and emotional team before than this one and continued to compare it with the 10-0 Penn team that he coached in 1986. What makes recmiting hard for Union is that at the Division III level you are not al- lowed to give scholarships, so the only way to attract players is by having a reputation for excellence. which seems to be the case for Union. STARS '93-'94: AJ,though Coach Al!ldino mentioned al- most every player on the start.ing team, in- cluding Offensive IinerneuGreg Oswin and Dan Plankans he focused his main com- ments on junior runni.ng back Chris Irving, Senior linebacker Marco La inez, and SeA,ior Craig Mosia. Junior RtllmiN:g Back Chris Irving led the Dutchmen in ntsh ing for the secoAd straight year, with 862 yards. Irving is a very versa- tile player, whohas good hands. He has ex- cellent visio11 of the playing field and he hits the holes hard. On the other side of the coin, he bounces out to ti\1e side lines and make it a race for the end zone. Irving was selected as one of next years capt a ins along with jun- ior free-safety Kevin Weedmark. Linebackers Marco Lainez and Craig Mosia arc both trcm endmts leaders hy ex- ample. \TI1ey as middle linebackers. shut down our opponents inside rum1ing game and forced them to run outside.\ Coach Audino mentioned that. like every ot.hcr player on the learn. tl~ey trained hard dur- ing the off-season and took it upon them- selves to do beHer as captains. Graduating this year is the entire defen- sive line and one secondary player. Offen- sively only two I inemen. Greg Oswitt and Dan Plankans, and fullback Craig Rauseo are graduating. Retun1ing are all of the nm- ning backs. including Chris Irving and Frank Attah. all of the tight-ends, all of the quarterbacks and three ofthe five offensive linemen. Hopefu1ly the Dutchmen are play- off bound once more. The success of the football team this sea- son only adds to the long list of Dutchmen ptgskin success. Since 1982, Union's over- all record has been an unbelievable 121-25- 1. with no losing seasons, seven NCAA playoff bids, 13 playoff appearances, an EC AC North Championship in 1990 (9-1 ), and two appearances in the Stagg Bowl (Division III National Championship game). in 1983 and 1989. Also, they have been undefeated in five of the last nine seasons. Union continues to be in the top five in the country and coach Audino plans to keep it that way. He comn.ents. \It's tough. People won't fall and play dead if you just show up. You need to work hard to stay competi- tive.\ Women's Soccer Reaches States The big improvements for the team this year came on defense. where they got quicker and stronger. with a better second- ary. and better success against the run. Coach Audino described the unit as a \A tough, nasty, blue-collar defense.\ This can be attributed to an all senior defensive line. defensive ends, and middle linebackers, and one defensive back. (8 out of 11 were se- niors). Playing big for the Dutchmen all sea- son was this defensive line and the lineback- ers, who kept opponents under I 00 total rushing yards a game. l11e All-senior line of Greg Holmes (LE), David Mock (L T), Lewis Acquarulo (NG), Craig Bronder(RT) and Mark Mulholland (RE) played remark- ably well against the run. Also contributing to the stellar defense of Union were Marco Lainez (LLB) and Craig Mosia (RLB ). TI1e secondary had two senior's, Matt Schmitter (SS) and Paul Haydock (RCB), who also helped make the dutchmen nationally ranked in . Union was ranked 4th in the country in total defense, as they didn't al- low their opponents to gain over 200 yards of total offense a game. Also defensively, the Dutchmen did a great job containing their opponents, and allowed them to score only 9. 7 points per game. This year's offense was not as good, num- ber wise as other years, but it was timely, and successful when it needed to be, scor- By Julie lnanyi '96 Once again, the Women's soccer team impressed us all with their perfonnance this year. For the second year in a row, they made it to the New York State Tournament. Their outstanding roster is what makes this team stand out above the rest. A team with such talent as this one is usually accom .. panied by a coach with equally distin- guished credentials. Coach Suzanne Pedone came to 'Union in 1989, and since . then has led women's soccer to its success. Coach Pedone attributes the team's achievements to successive good recruit* ing years, and changes in fonnations on • the field. In the past few years coach . Pedone has witnessed an increase in talent of her players. A coupl.e of years ago; the talent was centralized to particular areas ·around the country, but now there is more talent to spread out amongst the competi,. tion. Most of the good recruits have .played in competitive socc.er leagues since they were seven or eight years old. Although this broader Spectrum aUows for easier re- cruiting, it is now more competitive and harder to attract the athletes to come to ·union. The .new fonnation on the field in re* cent years has helped this tearn to perfonn as they have. The team now plays with three forwards, three midfields, and four backs. This suits the team's personnel, and allows for substitutes to come in whenever needed. Having one goalie, Jen Manna, has made the past three seasons tough , but challenging for her. There are two new goalies coming in to add to the defensive Suzanne Pedone roster. This will enable enduring practices to take place more often. Jen's great talent as a goalie contributed to the team's post season play. Other key changes have. been more intense practice sessions and the knowledge of good incoming recruits. Two freshman that really stood out this year were Amy Powell and Danielle Spitz. Amy has a great desire to step in whenever she is needed. In her first game, Amy scored to win the game against Skidmore. Danielle came through for the team and really showed her talent on the field. The freshmen class this yeat is equaHy as talented, but unfortu- nately there are less openings to start. But, coach Pedone feels that the playing time they received was a t,>reat addition to their expe- rience as college players. A tougher schedule has propelled the team to some of its improvements over the past few years. This rigorous schedule was created due to the ilnprovements of both Union and the competition. A more \at- tacking\ type of garne is what coach Pedone tries to instill in her players, ''1 would like to pttrsue am ore attacking type of gatne and try to incorporate everyone on the field, both offensive and defensive players.\ When asked to name a few star players, Pedone responded by explaining that she prefers to think ofh~r whole team as stars a11d not to single out any one individual. But by looking a1: the stats of the year, it is difficult not to point out some key play- ers. Heather Rock, Kirn Fanning and Nicole Solornos were leading scorers. Fanning and Solotn{)S each had six goals, and Rock had. seven. Jen Manna had • 252 .shots against her. only permitting 30. goals to get through. Captains for next year's team an Heather Guantt. Jen · Manna, and Danielle Shelov. They are promising another season filled with tri- umph. l11e future of women 'ssocceris a bright· one. l11e departing seniors. although they will be missed, lnve talerited underclass- men to replace thern. Pedone has noticed, a continuing i1nprovernent over the past few yeats and hopes to maintain a .500 record each year. 111is will put them in. a good position to be invited to the State Tournament each year. This is their im- · mediate goal for the next two years. They hope to earn a good seed in the tournament, and once there, beable to prove themselves to the rest of the c()mpetition.

