~: ' ' ::I .. ... on cor t.ensts The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Volume CXXIH; Number IX Schenectady, New York Senior'S lnfllriate·d with State of the Nott for Gradu.ation by Alex Kreisler Associate News Editor The restoration of the Nett has become a controversial issue for members of the senior class. Several seniors are outraged with Union's latest project. They fear the trucks and scaffolds will clash with their caps and gowns. While PresideHt HuH points out that the trucks can be removed during graduation. there is sorrte question as to what other materials may be visible on this day. This all de- p~nds on the stage of constructiop come June 12th. After raising the sufficient amount of money for the restora- tion ofthe Nott Memorial, Presi- dent Hull and his administration decided to go forward with the plan of completing construction on the Nott by Febmacy 26, 1995, the date oft he Bicentet}niaL The architects behind the grand project are Feingold and Alexander of Boston. Contrac- ·tors Paul and Peter Martini, of A.S.Martini from Malden, Mas- sachusetts, have been hired to complete the sixteen month job. The Martini brothers are both Union graduates and were also the contractors for Fanueil Hall in Boston. Many members of the senior class are upset when they walk by the A.S. Martini trucks, which surround the boundaries closing off the Nott. Senior Matt Karlyn expresses, \The only reason I'm upset is because this is another example of how President Hull and his administration have over- looked the class of 1994. I would certainly hope that by June 12th the Nott will be presentable for the 199th commencement of Union Colleg~. I sometimes wonder if President Hull realizes that in or- der to reach the 200th birthday of our school, the I 99th is of vital importance.\ Senior Class President, Mia Caetano shares an opposing view, she focuses on the long term ef- fects oftheproject. She states, \I feel that it was long overdue and an added bon us for the campus in the long run.\ Caetano adds, \I am one hundred percent in favor of the reconstruction because the Nott represents Union in so many ways.\ Senior Kerry Roberts takes a viewpoint somewhere in the middle of the opinions expressed by Karlyn and Caetano. She re- \~als, \I realize this project must be stat1ed and I value its long tem1 effect. However. 1 hope the con- struction does not take away from the beauty of Union's campus during graduation.\ continued 011 page 3 January 13, 1994 The renm•ation of the Noll Memorial, the only sixteen sided huilding in the West em hemisphere. is scheduled to he completed hy Fehn~ary c?f 1995.(Photo hy Michele Roseman/lt) Union Students Help Local School Children at Zoller TI1erapeutic systerns, tl1e Afri- cat1Dbtspora,: African folklore, fcaltlnn ls·'''tite'thYI!fo1f<eelue~~t16tt · ett, · , .. ·lhf:atfditiotl; :tttw<Jweek,study ·· n:tl:tt :fo~ U1liotPsti.ldent:s are in .. eluded. . This will involve filed · tripsto Mombasa 1 Massai- mara., · Bt'lthas-·of: Kenya~ safaris t$ ob .. ··sewe~'·intewiew·arrd'c6ndttdtte .. I''·· \···Tttiis tirot~ralrr' 'fs''desiJgn:eitt''tJ!f' '· seancb on~ ~tfr4¢aW ·l'tl:tdi'iitonraJ.J by Michelle Rosenbaum Co11cordiensis Staff \College is a very unreal time. Students may feel untied with the real world and kids break the arti- ficiality ofcollege students,\ says William Zwicker. the coordinator of the Zoller tutoring program at Union College. This is the third year of Union's involvement in the mentoring program and it re- mains successful. Zoller School and Union Col- lege have been a part of the Cor- porate Mentoring Program at Schenectady Schools (COM- PASS) since 1990. TI1e program was founded by the Elf~m Soci- ety of General Electric. Origi- nally, the main goals of the pro- gram were io help students in Schenectady Public Schools with science. math and technology. Since then the program has ex- panded. After its first successful year, · the Elfun Society handed the COMPASS program over to the Schenectady County Chamber of Commerce. After this change the program no longer featured men- tors exclusively from General Electric. Twelve 'other companies, finns. and organizations, includ- ing Union College, became in- volved. They began .sending men- tors with various academic inter- ests, rather than only those with mathematics and science fortes. Union became involved with COMPASS in late February 1991. Professor Zwicker became the mentor .;oordinator, as he worked with Susan Nadler, the Zoller School Coordinator. Together they worked to place the mentors accordingly. Jill Salvo of the Union Biology Department has also·helped Professor Zwicker with coordinating mentors. ln the first year. nine professors and twenty-five student volunteers were mentors. In the second year, seventy-five volunteers went to Zoller. Currently there are twenty-five students involved. At this time most of the volunteers are students rather than faculty. It has been observed that Union students work very well with the children. Elementary school chil- dren tend to enjoy having college students help them as it gives them some variety and excitement in their school day. \Union Stu- dents have created a positive tap- port with our students,\ said Zoller's principal, Robert Ceglerski. The tutors also enjoy teaching and helping the children. Men- tors have a choice of either working with students individu- ally, helping small grmips or ac- tually teaching whole classes. \ln the past, most of the volun- teers have preferred to deal with students on a 'one to one' basis,\ states Professor Zwicker. The mentors work with many differ- ent subjects including math- continued on page 3 Inside News ........................ l-3 \Vorld ~cws ............... A Features .................. 5-6 Busincss ............. o ...... u 7 Editorial ..................... 8 Opinions ..................... 9 Campus News .......... 10 A & E ·····t)················ ll Environmental. .•...•. 12 Science & Health ..... 13 Comics ..................... 14 Sports .................. 15-16

'· January 13, 1994, page 2 NEWS Cornel West Speaks Out for Tradition· by Elizabeth DeKoven ConcordiensiS Staff Dr. Cornel West, Princeton University's Director of the Af- rican-American Studies Program and the author of the book, Race Maners, spoke at Union College this Monday on racial tensions in America. In his speech, West expressed his goal for people to see the im- portance of economic and class issues within the black commu- nity and the larger society. The underlying theme behind West's speech was that without a strong sense of history, racial problems in America will not improve. He explained, \every- one is playing a small part of a rich tradition of struggles, a struggle for black freedom and a struggle for white supremacy.\ West stated that he believed we had reached the ~nost frightening moment in the history of this re- public, the United States. This is because' of the \undeniable cui- tural decay\ that is occurring. \Democracies are rare and usu- ally short lived,\ said West. \For most of human history there have been Kings and Queens ofwhich ordinary people have had to an- swer to.\ In his speech, West said that to talk about race is to talk about \poverty and paranoia.\ How- ever West expressed that since the first slaves came to the United States, \there has been too much self-loathing and too much self- hatred.\ West attributed the erosion of the nurturing system for children in the United States to racism. \Children today are unable to be a part of the effective bonds that cause support,\ said West. \They are unable to gain a cultural ar- inor through life.\ In the African-American com- munity, \rage is real because so many blacks have turned against other blacks,\ West observed. His solution to .the rage is to stop isolating racism. \We must hang Fraternity.Brawls: together,\ said West. \We have no where to run, we have no where to hide.\ Dr. West has had three major influences in his lifetime. As a young child he gained insight int0 African American's struggles by listening to the parishioners in his Bapti'st Church. He took to heart the stories they t0ld stories about blacks maintaining their teligious faith while enslaved. From his second great influence, the Black Panthers, West began to under- stand the importance of COpimtt- nity-based political action. But it was from reading a biography of Theodore Roosevelt that West was inspired to become an aca- demic. West identified with Roosevelt because they were both asthmatics. Since he shared ~ Roosevelt's medical history, ..::. West became motivated to share ~ his educational background as well. TI1erefore, he strove to at- t_end Roosevelt;s alma mater, Harvard. West began his first civil rights protest in his Sacramento Califor- nia elementary school by refus- ing to salute the American flag. l11is was in protest of the second class status that African Ameri- cans were given. Cornel West, a prominent African-American intellectual, signs his hook, Race Matlers, qfter delivering a rousing .~peech to a capacity crowd at the Memorial Chapel on Monday. West graduated Magna Cum Laude from Harvard University in 1973. He then went on to Princeton University to earn his MA and his Ph.D .. West plans on leaving Princeton University to join the faculty at Harvard Uni- versity in the fall of 1994. West dedicated his speech to Bobby Pratt, a Schenectady-born jazz musician who recently died in New York City at age 67. The Repercussions By College Press Service With only 24 hours before the party, the location was moved and the status was changed to a closed party, so a police officer was not needed. Fraternity members tried to get word out about the new sta- tus. Jobs? What Jobs? MIDDLETOWN. Conn. - After a fratemity party resulted in the arrest of three local resi- dents, an indefinite hold has been placed on campus parties open to the public at Wesleyan Univerity. Three Middletown residents were arrested and charged with assaulting a police officer be- cause they were denied access to the Alpha Phi Alpha party. which was supposed to be open to ev- etyone. TI1e fight began when the sta- hts of the party had to be changed from open to closed. The frater- nity, which planned to liave an open party in the main dining hall late last year, could not secure a police officer. The university's policy states that a police officer must be present at all parties on campus that are open to the pub- 1 ic. Problems began when resi- dents of Middletown arrived and were denied access to the party, officials said. Many of them were wearing the black and green, the colors of a local gang called 20 Love. \They were mostly high school-aged youth from Middletown,\ said university spokesman Bobby Clark. Clark said about two dozen of the youth started to brawl and 30 police had to be called to th.e scene to disperse the gang activ,. ' ity. Clark said no Wesleyan stu- dents were involved in the brawl. A university committee has been established to review the university's open party policy. By College Press Service For new college graduates now may be the time to update their resumes and interview clothes_ there are plenty of jobs out there for the taking. But then again, perhaps you should make plans to move.back home and leech off Mom and Dad until the job outlook im- proves. Are there jobs out there? It depends on whom you want to believe. The bright news: An increase in ~1iring is projected in t 994 for new college b'fadmites, according to the 23rd annual edition ofRe- cmiting Trends, a Michigan State University report. The bad news: The outlook is bleak and recent graduates are going to face stiff competition for jobs, according to the U.S. De- ***Chet's Grand Opening*** TONIGHT!! Mitch Frazier Plays Live 10:00 p.m. Sponsored by Senior Class! .. partment of Labor's Occu,pation Outlook Quarterly. The more re-assuring survey for graduates, which was re- searched by Michigan State, re- ported a l .1 percent increase in hiring over last year. This is the first increase projected in the past five years. In addition to an increase in jobs, starting salaries are expected to be 0.4 percent higher than last year, Recmiting Trends said. The highest anticipated increases are for majors in chemistry, computer science, industrial, civil and me- chanical engineering, mathemat- ics and accounting. According to the Research Trends survey, several fields are emerging with vast opportunities for employment. Among the ris- ing occupations reported by the surveyed companies are com- puter-related fields, business sys- tems analysts, environmental en- gineers and scientists, health care and medical specialists, and com- munications and multi-media spe- cialists. l11e highest starting salaries for graduates with bachelor's de~ grees are chemical engineering majors at $40,300. The results are based on the responses _of 4,600 . employers in industry and govern- ment agencies. When asked what advice the employers have for recent college graduates, the most frequent re- sponse was to have realistic ex~ pectations. \Get in touch with reality; reduce your 'h.at size,\' the Michigan State survey said. \New graduates cannot demon- strate that they are overqualified for a job until they try it on for size.\ Employers also said that if you get a new job and it's not what you expected, don't worry. Most companies reported that they don't expect to hire a college graduate and have that person be with the company for a lifetime. There is so much change happen .. htg in the workplace that most companies cannot guarantee life- time employment.. \The expectation for an indi- vidual to 'marry' an organization is no longer the norm,\ the sur- vey said. Employers recommend start- ing at an entry-level position. \Get started in an organization that offers a career ladder and -pro- duce outstanding results,'' . the survey said. \Promotions will come later.\ If you have ajob, that is. \Employment projectiqn for the 1990-2005 period indicate f4at the· average annual openings in jobs requiring a degree will num- ber fewer than during the 1984- 1990 period,'' wrote economist Kristina J. Shelley in the Occupa- tion Outlook Quarterly . Work experience will become as important, if not more impor~ tant than. education for some jobs, according to Shelley, because of the growing number ofbachelor;s degrees awarded each year that force graduates to compete for fewer jobs .

All Night Study Relocate·d by Larry Paska Concordiensis Staff The all-night study room has been removed from the library, due to internal renovations and security reasons. fall. \The entrance and exit were poorly lit, and very few students used it i~t the middle of the night. The fanner entrance. to all-night study is closed now,\ Jones stated. Temporarily, all-night study is v located in the social sciences ~ \' building, in bas.ement rooms 012 .~ and 015. Other options for the ~· all-night study are being consid- ~ ered, since students require a ~ quiet place to study twenty-four ~ hours a day. TI1e fanner location, '5 in the library, was used since the NEWS· January 13, 1994, page 3 According to Schaffer Library Director Barbara Jones, the room which housed the all-night study area was in I}eed of repair. ·'The furniture and carpeting had dete- riorated, and we felt it was time to renovate the room,\ Jones said. New carpeting, chairs, and study tables were among the improve- ments which were made, along with a repainting of the walls. Jones added that, while the room is open once again for study, it has not been fully finished, nor will it contain all-night study again. \We hope to have shelves put up within a few weeks, which will house periodicals,\ says Jones in regards to the future use of the room. building opened in 1974. Additional study space is planned for the Nott Memorial when it is completed; however, tl1at space will most likely not be used for all-night study. Adam Goodman (left), Erik Chu (center), and Karin Averill, study in the renovated All Night Study. Nott Restoration Stirs Controversy The all-night study was moved due to a concern over the secu- rity of the area. The evening en- trance of the library was seen as potentially dangerous after night Tl1e new library, which ex- pands the current library on its existing site, includes plans for additional study spaces. The ex- pansion, slated to begin in next January, will take about two year to complete. Study space will not be lost when construction begins. \The library will be open during its regular hours during construc- tion,\ Jones said. continued from page 1 In response to disappointed seniors, President Hull simply asks, \When can we do it (recon- struct the Nott) when we won't have a problern?\ He e:xoplains that restoring the Nott is a lengthy project, there is no way to avoid having the campus somewhat dis- rupted. However, he does not expect that the campus will be in shambies during graduation. UNiON COLLEGE C~MPVSSAFETY DEPARTMENT. WEF:KLY INCIDENT SUMMARY SUNDAY, JANUARY 2.1994 THROUGH SUNDAY, JANUARY 9, 1994 DATE/TIME .LOCATION. · SUNDAY, JANUARY 2, 1994: 1237 AM Potter House 11·30 AM Webster House 1:00PM Davidson 7:10PM Edwards House 10:40 PM Oavid&on 10:57 PM Fox TUESDAY, JANUARY 4, 1994: . l 1 :52 AM · Memorial Fieldllcu.se 2:55 PM South College '8:>2 PM West College WEDNES:l>A Y. JANUARY 5, l994! 2:20PM College Cent~r 8:12PM Potter House THURSDAY •. JANUARV.:6, 1994: 2:00 PM . Fox. Loading Dock ·9:22PM Delta Phi FRIDAY. JANUARY 7. 1994: 12:22 PM Achilles Rink l0:20.PM Richmond 10:52 PM Davidson SATUROAY,JANUARY 8,1994: 2:57 ·AM ' . South College · ' c;ollege Center . SUNDAY, .JANUARY. 9, 1994: 3:37AM Fieldhouse INCIDENT V ANDAUSM: Broken Windows THEFT: Student's CD equipment stolen during break-no forced entry. VANDALISM: Unauthorized entry into student's room\ glass table top broken. THEFT~ Student's answering machine stolen during break· in, no forced entry. UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY: Student's room entered during break-room searched-no theft or vandalism. FIRE ALARM: Caused \>y tampering with smoke detector- Lire S,afety Violation Filed TlfEFT: Wall Clock stolen. TIIEFT: Student's room key stolen. HARASSMENT: Annoyance telephone calls. SAF'ETY HAZARD: Falling ice/snow~Barricades placed. THEFT: Stuents VCR and CD player stolen during break- no forced entry .. PARKING VIOLATION: Unregistered vehicle immobi lized. Conduct Charges Filed, FIRE ALARM: Caused by sprinkler head freeze~up. UNAUTHORIZED ACCESS: Storage cabinet entered, sea.rched~no theft. ' SUllS'f ANCE ABUSE: Odor of marijuana reported• unconfirmed, LIFE SAFETY VfOLA TION~ Tampering with smoke detector violation notice filed FIRE ALARM/VANI>ALISM: Activated by pull box. Entrance door, Bulletin Board &. Fire Exit sign damaged . . ·SAFEtY HAZARO: .Stairwells blocked. , ,' . . I ~ • , ' , , \ ... ',. ' UNAUTHORlZEO ENTRY: Students located inside · Fieldhouse. _ Hull states,. \I want commence- ment to be a positive experience and I am thinking of different things to do so it won't be a prob- lem.\ The President also reveals that the campus was disrupted when the College Center and Alumni Gym were under going construc- tion in the mid 80's. During this time, the students expressed a less positive experience, yet we have the opportunity to enjoy these buildings today. \This is why,\ Hull explains, \we invested in fix- ing up a piece of the library now, so the students who are here now do not just have to hear about plans for the future, but they can enjoy some betterment of the · campus in the present.\ It is virtually impossible to re- construct buildings on campus without everyone being inconve- nienced at some point in the project. Yet, President Hull of- fers the flip-side of \seeing the constmction done for the future,\ which students will be able to en- joy as alumni. It is hoped that enough money will be raised, so that the College can go fOiward with the renova- tions of the library in time for the Bicentennial. In the meantime, plans are be- ing made to make graduation for the class of 1994 memorable and unique, regardless of the Nott's constriction state by that time. Union Students Tutor at Zoller contillued from page 1 ematics, English, speech, special education and art. Not only do the mentors help students excel in certain academic areas, but they also get to know the students on a personal level. They learn about the students' interests, ac- tivities and future plans. The mentors discover their own stren!,>1hs and weaknesses through their interactions with the students as they help them become inter- ested in the future and the work- ing world. Each mentor becomes a role model for the students. Mentors not only help teach el- ementary school students, but they also learn a lot about them- selves and the real world. ZBT Rush Schedule January 12- Skins, Wings and More 8:00pm January 15 - Hangover Helper 12:0() pm January 16- Pizza and NFL Playoffs 3:30pm January 17- The Dating Game 8:00pm January 23- NFL Playoffs and Food 3:30pm In Future Issues Why do Union students prefer single-sex housing? President Hull to announce '94 -'95 budget to college community.

January 13, 1994, page 4 ' , NEWS BRIEFS. Belgium-President Clinton is cur- rently in Brussels to reassure mem- bers ofNATO that the United States is committed to·the Alliance. There is talk at the NATO summit that the United States might agree to extend NATO's nuclear umbrella beyond Western Europe. Also, the Ukraine announced that it will dismantle its World News nuclear arsenaL Balkans-Water is now safe for thousands of Bosnians. An American aid agency has secretly built a system that will deliver the water. Over a year ago the Serbs cut off the water supply for most of the city. Since then people have risked their lives daily trying to get fresh water, as the Serbs attacked public water dis- tribution points. Abu Dhabi-One ofthe two top executives of the Bank of Credit and Commerce International is being extradited to the United States to stand trial on criminal fraud charges. National News New York- New York Telephone has begun installing rotary pay phones in the drug infested areas of the city. The rotary phones take longer to dial. It is also impossible to beep a drug runner from a rotary phone. Massachusetts- Former House Speaker Thomas P \Tip\ O'Neill was buried this week. He retired from Congress in 1988. Mourners at the funeral overflowed into the street outside the church. Arkansas-President Bill Clinton's mother, Virginia Kelly, passed away last week in her sleep. She had been struggling with breast cancer for a long time. The Presidential family attended funeral service in Hot Springs. Virginia- The trail of Lorena Bobbit began this week. She is on trial for cutting off her husband's penis. John Wayne Bobbit was cleared of charges of rape late last year. Mrs. Bobbit says that she could no longer stand being tormented by her husband. The trail could go to the jury this week. If she is found guilty she could face 20 years in jail and be deported back to her native Venezuela .. Welfare Reform • • by Sarah R. Evans World News Staff The American government is or is becoming in solvent because of a constant underclass in the United States. Welfare reform is needed across the United States on two fronts. One, we can no longer support a class of people who have become dependent upon welfare as their means of subsistence. Two, these people need to become a part of out economy in a positive way. By getting welfare recipients of the public support system; we will be creating a new class of tax pay- ers, to help pay the national debt. Welfare reform has become more of a societal problem than an eco- nomic one. The problem is with establishing paternity and then collecting child support. Recently two new federal laws went into effe..ct. They are aimed at getting more parents to pay child support. It is now a federal crime to live in another state than your children and not pay child support. The other new federal law requires employers to withhold child sup- port payments from their salary. make the welfare problem go away. Welfare reform also needs to address the growing problem of generations offamilies surviv- ing via welfare checks. AI~ though, when most people who say that they want welfare reform mean that they want to cut gov- ernment spending on entitle- ments. Just making absentee parents pay child support is not going to ____ ,..,. ....... tW\_'It~ By collecting child support from absentee parents, the gov- ernment has saved millions of dollars in AFDC payments. Since federal and state govern- ments have become stricter in collecting child support, about 11% of all A.FDC payments have been recovered. In order to address the prob- lem of families depending on welfare checks for survival for generations, the government is going to have to spend more money. There has to be an incentive to get people off the public dole. Let's face it you were tolfthat you could work forty hours a week at McDonald's and make $160 per week or sit at home and make $800 a month; what would you do? There also has to be a system that supports the work- ing poor as well as the welfare WORLD NEWS Hope Still Alive for Peace in the Middle East by Lara Greenberg World News Editor Let's talk Middle East Peace here and take a momentto reflect: Try and picture it, September 13, 1993 -the White House lawn - Is- raeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, President Bill Clinton and Palestinian Liberation Organiza- tion Chairman Vasser Arafat. Flash bulbs are popping, invited guests are eagerly awaiting what some may call the most monumen- tal leap toward world peace in 1993, and without any mishaps, the handshake between the two bitter enemies takes place. There were no freak chemical reactions, neither one of the two men backed out at the last minute, and no ter- rorists encounters took place, amazing as it may seem. The handshake was the sym- bolic gesture on the part of Arafat and Rabin, but what was behind this momentary brush offlesh was much more than that. The leaders of the ever-battling people agreed on Palestinian self-rule in the Gaza Strip and the town of Jericho in the West Bank where in both places the Intifada, the Palestinian upris- ing, has been in action for five years. When Rabin and Arafat signed the agreement, the plan was that Israeli troops would withdraw from both the West Bank and the Gaza Strip on December 13, I 993. Well, needless to say, December 13 has come and gone and Israeli troops are as real as ever in the occupied territories. The problem is, that between September l3 and December 13, a lot happened. Tile problems began with dis- agreements about the a,greement. TI1e details in question included border crossing rules, the exact square footage that the town of Jericho would encompass, and how the Jewish settlers were go- ing to be protected in the new self-ruled areas. These problems put an initial strain on the peace pact among the people who made the agreement. It also put the Is- raeli troop with- entire treaty in .question because it basically meant that at any time the whole thing could come to a dead halt. Jewish. settlers in the occupied territories added to the internal conflict that the Israeli govern- ment had to deal with. This group was difficult to quell due to the fact that the settlers were pioneers trying to make the territories their own, and overnight, their land was .handed drawal date in question. To increase the friction, the initial happiness wore off on both sides \Hope for peace in the Middle East has over to the en- emies. The fighting be- tween the set- tlers and the .Palestinians in becom·e a fantasy for most people.'' when problems ~-----.-------~ the territories had always been bad, but after the handshake, it soon turned worse. arose within the ranks. First, dis- sension within the Israeli ranks began. The leading party, the I,.abor did not recei:ve support from some of the other parties within Israel, weakening it as a political whole. The Likud party traditionally opposed making any kind of territorial concessions for peace. Not only does it oppose it, but it believes that it is trea- sonous, selling out the right the Jews have to their land. This was made public from the moment the treaty was made, and caused an uproar in Israel amongst its po- litical leaders and its citizens. In addition, Israeli President Netanyahu strongly objected to the peace agreement and did not hesitate to voice his discontent .in the most aggressive of acts. He stated that if the Labor party was voted out, and the Likud party voted in, the Likud did not have to, and would not honor the agreement. l11is action put the Internal problems within the Palestinian community were even worse than those oflsrael's. First, factional figl1ting among Palestin- ians has increased greatly. Hamas, the leading Islamic fun- damentalist group in the Gaza Strip and the West Bank believe in the nation of Islam and the de- struction of Israel because it stands in the way of this nation. Arafat and the rest of the PLO members have essentially given away their nation which, they; as do the Israelis, believe is their right, given to them by their G-d, Allah. As a result of these strong religious sentiments, a. war against the people who made the treaty and support it has been de- clared and has been the cause of many Arab deaths. The Best System? Many PLO supporters are mov- ing toward Hamas as a result of pressure and distrust of Arafat. Arafat is seen as living the high life in other, more comfortable places, while the real fight has been going on in the territories where people are getting shot at, live in poor conditions and are losing friends and family mem- bers as a result of this war. recipients. The new system needs to encourage people to work, even if that means we have to still sub- sidize their pay, with childcare vouchers and food stamps. By encouraging welfare recipi- ents to work, we will be increas- ing the self esteem of people on public support. Increasing the self esteem of welfare mothers, will help end the welfare cycle. If daughters see their mothers work- ing then they will have positive role models. To cut the cost of government entitlements over the long run, we have to address a variety if social ills, such as drug abuse and teen- age pregnancy. By reaching the roots of these problems we can cut welfare spending in the long run, even if it means spending more in the present. By educating people on the hann of abusing drugs and the risks of unprotected sex, we ca:n begin to cut down on welfare cost. Many politicians are joining the band wagon, including Mario Cuomo, by saying two years and your off. Two years is a realistic period of time for people get off the public dole. TI1e problem with statements like these is that they do not offer a support system to help people get off welfare and stay off of it. Job training and childcare need to be addressed, if reform is going to work. Tell- ing women that they are not go- ing to receive any more money if they have more children only punishes the children. Welfare reform is need desper- ately if the United States is going to stay economically competitive into the 21st century. Abolishing welfare is not going to stop the problem because at some point or another people fall on hard luck. Job training is the way to stop making welfare simply a free handout. Almost everyone ahrtees that people should not get some- thing for nothing. Contribute to World News Finally, escalated violence be- tween Israeli soldiers and Pales- tinians in the territories luis caused many deaths and pushed the date oflsraeli withdrawal for- ward, indefinitely. Hope for peace in the Middle East has become a fantasy for most people, who were disillu- sioned by the September 13th handshake The problems the peace treaty has faced even be- fore its onset are great. l11e cir- cumstances are great, but the situ- ation was predictable. Now, before you all give up on the idea of peace in the Middle East, let me say, I had negative feelings about this treaty from the start, but eveil I still have hope. Peace will happen, but it is going to take more than a handshake to make it successful. More impor- tantly, the process of reconciling the two groups is going to take a long time. We must have been dreaming if we expected the whole process to take two months without any problems. Puh- /ease! We weren't really that na- ive were we?

Features A Weak Return Erin M. O'Neil Features Editor Hello everyone. I'm back. Next week I will write a genuine article with a topic and substance and everything. Until then, all I can offer is an unoriginal, cheesy, cop-out sort of thing. Sorry, I tried. Why? Why are there four Dollar stores on State Street? Why is Upperclass dining a Ia carte? Why can't I drive on campus any- more? Why am I doing five hours of campus service? Why does everyone wear my clothes? Why doesn't Sheara l.ike my boots? Why don't I know anyone on campus? Why do I get a Golden House menu in my mailbox evey day? Why can ;t juniors live off cam- pus? Why is it called Burgo Master? Why is Monahan so sexy? Why is the Nott surrounded with crap? Why do I still live in Fox? Why is Fred Savage in the Col- lege Center? Why is the tundra so far and so cold? Why aren't there any Engl·ish muffins in England? Why is there a spider on the screen? Why do upperclassmen need R.A.'s? Why am l doing this to myself? Why can't you call information from a campus phone? Winter Special For Visage! 374-0351 Why would anyone take an 8:45? Why aren't there bagels in Israel? Why don't the bathrooms have soap? Why is plaque bad for you? Why am I studying fractals? Why don't any males go on tenn abroad? Why aren't there any extra large condoms in the bookstore? Why doesn't anything stick to the walls in the dorms? Why am I in the donns? Why can't I find the Library? Why can't I find a support group? Why do they try to make stick up air fresheners seem like attractive pieces of home furnishing? Why can I be so busy doing noth- ing? Why? Minardi. Intestines! Why don't I give it up? Women's Haircuts ............................ $13 Men's .................................................... $9 Perms .................................................. $40 Stains ............................................... $25 -with cuts .................................... $35 Highlights ....................................... $4 5 Manicure.s ................................... \' .... '$12 only with Penny, Angela, Melissa, and Beth Effective through March 31, 1994 January 13, 1994, page 5 Uncl-e Edna HeiSIJe is Back 1 1 993 i.v aver. In fitting tribute I present my Top Ten news stories · for the year that was. 10. Lorrai11a Bobbitmade big news by living on the cutting edge anci.dt'opping her husband into the soprano section. She has since signed a $10 million dollar deal to endorse Ginsu knives. Alumi- num cans, tomatoes and .... I for one wish she would go on the Love Connection For The Sexually Deviant and hook up with Joey Buttafuoco or maybe the Dating Game with Pee Wee Hertnan, Michael Jackson and Hob Packwood. · 9. David· Lettern:tan signed a huge contract with CBS and has . since taken over the late night airwaves. Imagine getting to be that pi!>puJar psing cheap tricks like top t~n lists. The horror. . 8; Les- A-stihl gave up the job as Secretary of Defense citing per- . sonal reasons as-his excuse. Insiders close to Mr. Aspin. however, · say '~e real rer;:son is hat he was tired of losing at RlSK to Colin J?..owelL. • t:jl ·Union College called in Martini Construction to ail its Nott · W~onal,woes. ·· M'artbli has sai~ that the Nfttt wiU be finished ()al;y;:wnen;th~y:.n_ave plac~ad f,1 ~ant olive:()n top, - :-~.·: ,Mnt.ma,~· 'fhea~e,is:ffll~UY: b.eill:g erect.~. lfonJy John Bobboit ·<tmtld ~e §o.luotcy., · · B·v lr-JieilJ1~4tn'l:·~f·•93.Joti)JptedUruon~$ daily'>peration. First the 'bln'~ttll'¢l'~tlc •adntin·i$~f·ion slowed it d0wn and ·then Mother Na- . ~i~~ ·fiJtt~~~d;.~w.~~f(. ; . ' ' . ; . .. . . . . . • . . .4.,,·Jut~:CRiftbef.ts~marrle~ 'fuyle.Lovett ·continuing the trend of vo- . ~pt\lQJiS;~~~o~~lS,fJ!~in'lttiGJ.tsoattJ;~cdve singers. Billy Joel · WJd:<Cilristi¢.~~i~kley, Rick Ocasit} f!ndl?aulina Poriskova ... J hear Meatloaf ju$t p¥opo$ed to Anna Nicole Smith. · 3. ~ill Clinton was inaugurated and gave many exciting balls. Gennifer Flowers was involved in tlte most controversial of them. 2. Rush Umba·ugb arid Ross Perot didn't make things easy on Mt. Clinton~ however. TI1ings got pretty intense for a while but the upcoming Wrestlemania should help settle the score. Perot and Limbaugh vs. Clinton and Gore in a steel cage. Order your .pay · pet'w¢W now, t~ 8urgom~ter heads my .li~t· of '93 stories, In fact the entire dining semces were a: story. 'Who will ever f<m,{~ Hello-Thank You Steve-or Upperelass D~rve or,tl'l&.mittots.olt:the ceiling in Dutch . and of course the infini:t:esimalty in.ane Burgomaster sign. Hats off to t11e rolks. at4Jning Se\Ni¢e. for k¢eping Us entertained. Ab-road. A special bello to Chris Irving and Jen Aquino in Spain. Also to Ami Kllnsky, Steph H.., Joe W 'i and Mike Lop. Mike, if you're reading this in Greece, they've reopened your favorite bar in Rome. I wanted to spend some time a broad ... the doctor, however, said I couldn't afford the operation. Students of the Week. .Julie Newton for dressing up like baby New Year and making our party extra special. Also for her helpful insight into this column. ·Erin M 0 'Neil for finishing third in the bull-riding trials for the Lilehrumner Olympics coming up next month; Congratulations. Ed Lippie. Over break Ed seized control of a runaway 747 and sltccessfuUy guided it to landing on the deck ofMaine Lob stet Boat. · Ed has since been seen dating Amy Fisher's younger sister. Good Job Ed. . Write Uncle Edna. Box 83. You Can Never Go Home Again: Or Can You? Rawson Thurber Features Writer Well, over this past holiday break I've realized a lot of things. Such as nothing compares to the joy of playing with your dog af- ter being away for twelve weeks; and there's also nothing that quite matches seeing all of one's high school friends after one's first tenn away at col1ege. Especially close friends. · My return home was .strange. Many things in my life had, changed. My mother had recently divorced my step father, and upon . my return I noticed that some fur- niture was \missing;' and pic- tures, which for the eight years of my mother's marriage, made up the back drop of my home were suddenly gone. My mother had warned me that, \Things are different\. But it was still a slightly eerie feeling. i could tell things were different, but it wasn't !lOticeable unless I concentrated on it. Christmas has always been a special event in my house as the holidays are in most homes across the nation. But this year it was different. Our family (myself, my mother, my sisters and step-sis- ter and brother) awoke and did the whole Christmas thing, but around noon all the \kids\ left and went to my step-father's house, about fifteen minutes away, for our \second\ Christmas. The part that bothered me the most wasn't the separation of my mom and step-dad, or the unusual \second\ Christmas. The thing that bothered my heart the most was that I felt that I was exclud- ing one of the parents. In the morning I felt that we were ex~ eluding Alan my step-father, and in the afternoon my mother. I know that this wasn 1 t the intent, but it still felt that way. I thought about this for quite some time, and came to the real- ization that the love in our family wasn't gone, it was still present but in a different fonn. The fam- ily had changed, but the love never left. A similar event ocurred that evening when my three closest friends called me up, and we went out. We ended up at this little out of the way campsite around ten o'clock that evening. We built a fire and cooked beans in a can. The famous Bay-Area fog began to flow softly over the hills, and we just sat there by the fire into the night. I don't remember any- thing of importance being said that night, in fact not much was said at all. We were just there to- gether. And that was enough. It was a very \Wonder Years\- esque moment. And I realized that although my life was changing rapidly, and my boyhood Christ- mas memories were never again to repeat, I'd make it through. My friends and I had gone our separate ways in terms of college, but when we were together, things hadn't changed that much. We each had new stories to tell, and new friends, but the core of our friendship was still there. Maybe that's the way things work in life. They change, they always change. But the friendship and love remain a constant. A great quote concerning this comes from the highly underrated western \Young Guns II\. \ ... when you got yourself three or four good pals, than you got yourself a tribe. And there ain't nothing stronger than that.\

' . January 13, 1994, page 6 Features Wqe Qinnrnr.hi£ttsis The American Dream: Are We Still the Land of Opportunity or is the Dream Gone? Alexis Leist Features Editor Is the American Dream dead? The opporttmities that were avail- able twenty, even thitty years ago are obsolete. America was at one time the legendary \land of Op- portunity, the home of the \American Dream\ in my opin- ion it is no longer. A major facet of the \American Dream\ is the desire to make money, and lots of it; to obtain both objects and freedoms which were unobtain- able in any other country, in any other part ofthe world. There was a time when this dream was fea- sible, and indeed it came true for many people. Immigrants left Europe in hordes ami made their way to a foreign country with no money, only a fierce longing for a fair chance. l11ey made some- thing out of themselves, they achieved their dreams. These people built dynasties of all sizes for their succeeding generations and tried to instill in them a sense of pride in what they had accom- plished, inspired them to build the same castles from dreams. Un- fortunately, they failed to foresee the hardships and competition that America's society w0uld face today. Don't kid yourself, those days were not perfect~ and not every- one who emigrated to the United States found satisfaction with their version ,of the American Dream, hut it was attainable wher~as today it isn't. But why? Why has the \land of freedom\ become a haven for competitive, money-hungry, ruthless busi- nesses, employees, and employ- ers? Why are only a select few privileged to the kingdom of fi- nancial stability? I don't know .. But I do have a few theories. Today, the key to a successful and stable life is thought to be an education. More and more this requires both a college and gradu- Alexis's Top Ten List ofthe Week 1 . Best Movie: Philadelphia: a moving story of a lawyer with HIV, when suspected of having the vims he is fired, but fights back and wins the case. Tom Hanks, Denzel Washington, Jason Robards. 2. Best Actor: Tom Hanks- his ability to portray anyone. from a twelve year old trapped inside a man's body to a lawyer dying of AIDS makes him one of the best actors of our generation. 3. Best Quote: \If the states ofFlorida, Texas, and California did not exist, talk shows would be out of business\ -Maury Pavich. l11e quote speaks for itself. 4. Best Statistic: Both an amazing and appalling one- a recent poll has indicated that over twenty percent of the adults in this country believe that the Holocaust never occurred. Take a look at the movie deemed best of the year \Schindler's List\ and then try to doubt that such a thing took place. 5. Best Talk Show: Oprah Winfrey, she still continues to deal with major issues of the day while providing us with just the right balance of humor and gravity. 6. Best TV Show: Seinfeld- it really is a show about nothing, but that is why people can relate, our lives tend to be just as mean- ingless and funny as the four characters on the show. 7. Best magazine: Life- check out its end of'93 issue, which recaps all the biggest events of the year and pays a heartfelt goodbye to such celebrities as Audrey Hepburn and Arthur Ashe. 8. Best Car: Honda Accord, it may not be the sleekest, but jt is both practical, affordable, and extremely reliable, slowly becoming a staple of middle-class life. 9. Best City: don't mean to make a plug for my state, but nothing can beat the Big Apple. 10. Best Cartoon: No doubt in my mind, the best cartoon ever is Scooby Doo. It treated both women and men with respect, as well as animals too. Sitting Around Doing Nothing? Have an opinion on life at Union or in the world? Well, write for Features. Contact Alexis at x5712 -. -- -.--.-----,~-- ate school degree. What is the primary thing needed for such an education? Money. That already eliminates the proportion of our population who can't afford schooling, those who are living way below the norm (there are exceptions of course). But the fi- nancial ability to afford an edu- cation does not guarantee any- thing, a person must still do well, and that can be very hard at times. So, a person has attended presti- gious schools and done fairly well, now what? Not much. The unemployment rate is extremely high (although it is decreasing) and job opportu- nities are both specific and lim- ited. BtJt besides that, employers are looking for a certain kind of person (as I discussed before, a person with a great education). Such people, usually, but not al- ways seem to come from a middle to upper class family. TI1ey are usually white, and usually male. This is the reality, as I see it any- way. Admittedly, America has moved forward in trying to breakdown the walls of preju-· dice and sexism, but just look anywhere, and it is apparent that we still have a long ways to go. So once a result of all the preju- dice and sexism embedded within our minds for years, an• other portion of the population is restricted from the keys to the kingdom, the kingdom of com- fortable living and the happiness that comes from financial stabil- ity. Not that money makes people entirely happy, but it is the driv,ing factor for our entire culture. Is the American Dream attain- able? Yes, with the proper tools it is. But evc;;n so it is not the tmeandpure form ofthe Ameri- can Dream, the story of an im- migrant longing for a new life, a free life, a rich life, and getting it. Not every inhabitant of the USA has these abilities. America may have once been the land of opportunity, and home of the \American Dream\ but to- day it resembles a piece of ma- chinery controlled by the top ten percent of the population and oiled by the millions who live in poverty. At one point in America's past, people were able to progress from rags to riches. Maybe not riches, but at least to comfort and freedom, a sense of worth and pride in pl,llling them- selves up from the peasant!\} to become the bourgeois of our na- tion. Today, it all depends on edu- cation and connections. TI1e right schools, the;; right people, the right race, the right religion, and vari- ous other \rights' which should never matter in the first place because people are people and everyone deserves a chance at the goodlife. Unfortunately, today's society is willing to let in only a select few. Citizens and Non-Citizens Unite Take a Trip to Wirklichkeit Craig Pike Features Writer Do you know what it is like to be powerless? I do. Let me tell you a story of the world of Wirklichkeit. It is tmly, for some, a wondrous place, full of sights and sounds that excite the mind. For others it can be a land of ter- ror and oppression. There are two types of people that share this world, the citizens and the non- citizens. The citizens are the tme denizens of this land, the rulers, the owners, the people who can enjoy and experience the incred- ible variety of life. Non-citizens have no rights except for what they receive from the citizens. During some time periods this has led to atrocities, at1d in others a peaceful coexistence. One might ask why these non- citizens stay in a place that allows them no rights. TI1e answer is found in their ability to become citizens themselves after a wait- ing period. You see, everyone on Wirklichkeit was at one time a non-citizen. To become a citizen one must live with a patron for about a year. After that year is up then that person has all the rights and abilities of a citizen. TI1ere are so many glories of citizenship. You are free, free to think, run, dream. Opportunities fly at you at all moments. Every day is a moment of incredible ex- istence. That is what I wanted- citizen- ship. So I sought out a patron, one who would not take advantage of my non-citizenship. I finally found one, and then I realized a horrible tmth. The dominant way of thinking had changed on the world of Wirklichkeit. The citi- zens of the land had decided that non-citizens were not even people. Even though I had the ability to become a citizen in less then a year. they had the choice of halting that progress at any time. The joy and ecsta~y that was being held out to me could be snatched away without notice. Oh the terror that I lived in dur- ing those months! But my pa- tron did not evoke her hideous \right\ to end my only chance at citizenship. At last, I made it. TI1e day had come- citizenship! As I drew in my first breath of citizenship, I cried with the relief and exquisite joy of being alive. I looked up into the eyes of my patron - Mom - and thanked the Lord above that she had been car- ing enough to see me for the po- tential of citizenship that I had, and had not taken away the most potent gift that was so rightfully given - Life. The Ballroom Dancing -Club is Back! Learn How the Beast won over Beauty! Lessons in the Arts Dance Floor: Monday (Beginner Class): From 6-7:00 pm (8 lessons starting Ill 0) Learn the Jitterbug, Rhumba, Cha-cha, Mambo, and Waltz Thursday (Intermediate Class): from 5~6:00pm{8lessons starting 1113) Lep,m Swing, Tango, Fox trot, Mambo, and Waltz Price for the term: ·come and Bring $·16 for returning members ' • 0 $20fornewmembers Your Friends!

e e e s a 11 e y d ! y y , Business Campus Renovations Continue Despite Budget Constraints by Alissa M. Mayo Business Writer The problem of maintaining the function, safety, and aesthet.- icsofUnion College's facilities is one which colleges an:d uni- versities nationwide also face. Union has chosen ·deferred maintenance, a system of priori- tizing the needs of the campus facilities and rotating the up- keep projects according to those needs, in order to stay within its budget constraints and provide the b~st services to students and faculty possible. John Skumerski, Director of Financial Analysis and Buqget ex:plains~ \The size of[Union 's] campus and the amount of money allocated makes this problem germane to every cam- pus.\ According to a study by the accounting firm of Coopers and Lybrand, 79 percent of liberal arts colleges like Union have master facilities plans, and about half ofthese also include deferred maintenance. . While the average age of most build- ings at liberal arts collegesis 52, Union's buildings are an ave'r- age of 84 years old. In addition, the average num- ber of buildings at liberal m1s colleges is 29. Union College owns and maintains 52 build- ings, including 17 residences, 16 academic buildings, 18 ad- ministrative and support build- ings, and 10 buildings along the perimeter of the campus (such as the President's home and gnest houses). Union College is among only 17 perc.ent of liberal arts col- leges which conducts annual audits of its classroom, resi- lege Resources Committee. dence halls, and other facilities Vice President for Campus as part' of its deferred mainte- Life; Joseph Mammola, indi- nance program. The average cated that the College hopes to college's renovation and new begin breaking ground by the construction projects, according beginning of Union's Bicenten- to the Coopers and Lybrand sur- nial year. vey, hovers around $4 million. Plans for the new library in- Union's budget allocates $6.1 elude expanding the library million, or roughly 10 percent, from 56,000 to nearly 90,000 of its 1993-1994 budget to its net square footage. About campus operations. This in- 20,000 square feet will be de- eludes maintenance of build- voted to student service areas, ings, grounds, .utilities and Ia- including small and large !,lfOUp bor costs. study rooms and a periodicals Union's campus operations reading room. budget does not include the In addition, the Library Plan- nearly $4.6 million dollars ning Committee hopes to relo- needed to con- ------------ cate the lan- struct Yulman Theater, or the $9.5 million need·ed to renovate the Nott Memo- rial. Fund raising and Vice President of Campus Life, Joseph Mammola, indicated that the college hopes to begin breaking ground by the beginning of Union's Bicentennial year. guage labs, the writing center, and computer workrooms in the li- brary. An area for in- private donations have financed these capital projects. In addi- tion, college officials hope to establ<ish endowments of $1 million for Yulman Theater and $1.5 milJion for the Nbtt, to be set aside for future renovations and the operation of these fa- · cilities. This goal has not yet been met. structional technology, such as discs, graphics, and other au- diovisual teaching aids, would also be set up in the renovated library. As part of the Administration's commitment to avoid deficit spending, the Trustees and administrators hope to identify funding for the renovation of Schaffer Library by the end ofthe 1994 academic year. The renovated library's costs, estimated at $14 million, are to be paid for by intense fund-raising efforts by the Col- 7 Bedroom House Available for 1994:.1995 These plans have not yet been finalized, however. The Library Planning Committee will submit its \wish list\ to Boston architecture firm Perry Dean Rogers, who will attempt to design a library that meets the practical and aestlietic needs of Union College. Further- more, the logistical problems of a library renovation pose many logistical problems to the archi- tects and the Library Planning Committee. \Our goal will to be to provide uninterrupted ser- vice to students and faculty. How we're going to do that is still a question,\ says Mammola. He adds, \It will be a totally different library.\ Some options for the interim between !,lfound-breaking and the completion of the library renovation include shifting books from part of the library to.another, as well as moving some of the books altogether to Hale House, Memorial Chapel, or even certain residence halls during the summer break. The architects, who are experienced in these types of renovations, may even construct a a tempo- rary, prefabricated building which would enable students to still take full advantage of the (10 or 12 month lease) *Large Bedrooms *Modern Kitchen *2 Modern Kitchens *Appliances *Washer/Dryer *Lots l\'lore Call 370-5498 The.Concordiensis Business Section Welcomes New Staff Alissa M. Mayo Alext~:.nder Shapiro library services. All Entries due Friday Jan. 21st. Submit to B.ox 2577-. January 13, 1994, page 7 Nynex Pushes the Pushers Buttons by Alexander Shapiro Co Business Editor The drug war has taken an- other brutal stab at it's most faithfitl participants, the friendly street comer dealer. TI1e phones on high dmg traffic streets in New York City, particularly the Clinton and Washington Heights neighborhoods in Man- hattan and parts of Astoria, Queens, have been crippled by making them rotary. Rotaryphones are effective in slowing down drug traffic on the streets for a variety of reasons. The coordination and pa- tience required to· turn the dial of the phone i-s often beyond the more frequently than not strung out pushers and runners. The drawback of the rotary system is that little children, as well as intoxicated adults trying to call . taxi cabs instead of driving themselves, often get frustrated and break the phone. The primary result of this change is that, without a special electronic device, rotary phones cannot access services such as beepers and voice mail. Of course this limitation is also a make me feel like I'm in a third world country. How am I sup- posed to beep my boys?\ Chris- topher Hamilton, Union '90, corporate warrior, \I love them! They remind me of the good old days when things we.re sim- pler.\ The installation of rotary phones is part of an ongoing crusade in New York City to clean up the streets. Brighter street lights, and an increased police force on the beat have been two other recently imple- mented tactics. People in the affected neigh- borhoods have reported at least a less visible flow of criminal activity on their corners. Need- less to say, the drug trade has not suffered a mortal blow from these changes, but by degrees it is becoming more difficult for dealers to conduct their dirty deed. Teclmolot:,'Y has already risen to meet the occasion. The hot tip of the week is to start buy- ing stock in cellular phone com- panies. Rumor actually has it that this strategy was thought up by an unnamed high level Motorola executive. This is a hindrance to those up- wardly mo- bile busin\ess .men on the go who need begin- ning of a new era in drug technol- \The installation of rotary phones is part of an ongoing crusade in New York City to clean up the streets.\ ogy_, As the old boxes of Nynex rotary phones are being dusted off, the search rumbles on for an effec- tive battle tool against the world's second oldest profes- such conveniences. Interviews have revealed that innocent users have mixed emo- tions on the return of the rotary phone. Christopher Guarino, Union student, common city dweller, \I despise them. They sion. Psi U Rush Function Semi-formal dinner Thurs. Jan 13, 6:00 p.m. Anyone welcome What's Hot in 1994? Amateur stockpickers - pick five of your favorite securities, and if your picks do the best $100 will be yours. Ten dollar entry fee, and your picks are due by Friday Jan. 21st. Submit all entries to the drop box outside the Concordiensis office. Entries limited to Nasdaq National Market Stocks. Contest ends April 1st.

.I ' '\' January 13, 1994, page 8 Validiae : It .$:ti.ltt·:,$,ti.llltl '. . optiot1s .... n·t·~.·r· .11•' ·~. :l~.t ·;· .t J .•• t .. n'e ;5!0:tl'cit,1t~:J1l1)t:lo\ students on .such a.n·i· .. lll. iP.o .. '~a. nt.1 'ss,.~c;.;.;;: '9.ott'~~ail:f;l)~lt1~t:~~J1.~~~r~ro~r'~l~~$ · and your ye~rs. As for tlle~l1~nges~.it\s t~r@fi}li1t:l~~tliflheit Wlye Qlonrnr!tiensis Tile Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 David Levine Hditor-in-( 'hie[ Executive Editor News Editors Features Editors Arts Editors Sports Editor i Layout Editors Copy Editor Photo Editor News Analysis Editor World News Editors Opinions Editor Science & Health Editors Business Editor Environmental Editor Advertising Editors Associate Photo Editor Associate Sports Editors Associate News Editor Associate Editor Computer Manager Faculty Adviser Manager Photographers Editorial Board ~ Levine Reynolds ' Lemoi Rubenstein Deb Mclnemey Caroline Paine, Matt Karlyn Erin O'Neil, Alexis Leist Belinda Crago, Niki Goldin Talley Belsinger Dagan La Corte Lisa Lemoi, Buffy Rubenstein Heather Reynolds Josh Haines Veronica Rogers I Lara Greenberg, Craig Greenberg Sarah Evans Andy Salama, Kenney Lee Dylan Ratigan 1 Eric Habib Sharon Smith, Fran Goldstein Scott Steele Joe Salzbart Lee Schachter, Greg Kalish Alex Kreisler David Fischer ' Brett Saunders 1 Scott Scullion Rachel Kest . Scott Druckemiller, Emily Schrier 1 Michele Roseman I I Staff : Bruno Benzaquen, TI10r Benander, Elizabeth De Koven Michelle Ellis, Sarah Evans, Alexandra Gualpa, Eric Habib, Mike Leding, Alissa Mayo, Alexis Leist, Pam Lin, Bharat Navani, j Mike Nelson, Larry Paska, Karen Pepiatt, Cr~ig Pike, William I Rice, Suzanne Robinson, Michelle Rosenbaum, Alex Shapiro, 1 Shveta Srivastava, Rawson Timrber, John Huang. j The ( :tmcordien.vi.v meets every Monday and Tuesday of the aca- demic year. Iti:~ubli:~~~ ~~:: ~~~~e~ts.o~-U~~o~-c~:~ge: __ j OP-ED ,, And the tniddJe class Con5Umer who WOlttbe 8ffected 1?yanew gastCJx. ,, (9 Letters to the Editor To the Editor: Being abroad in England last term, experiencing both British culture and the wonders of Eu- rope, I would never have imag- ined that I would miss little Union College so much. Though my tenn abroad experience was in- valuable, I feel I have gained a new appreciation of\home\. Not only did I long for smiles and laughter of my family and friends and the comforts of American so- ciety, I came to realize some en- riching and important revelations. The one revelation pertinent to this article is how fortunate we, the Union College student body, · a~e due to our opportunity to have a voice in our community. Hav- ing attended the Universities of Ripon and Yotk St. John's in York, England made me aware of not only the weight and the strength of the voice, but the many constructive ways in which we use it. St. John's is a university made up of eight hundred undergradu- ates. The student body could chose to joit1 several sports clubs, a vital and important aspect of a collegiate environment; however, the school lacked the necessity of special interest groups. It was simple for me to join the cricket club or the crew club, but it was difficult for me to find a forum for the discussion of topics such as AIDS, women's issues, race re- lations, etc. I now realize that our student body~ which is often tm- fairly dismissed as \apathetic\, is both active and responsible with respect to this social realm, as evidenced by the myriad of ex- tra-curricular opportunities avail- able at Union: our activity and formation suddenly came to be affinnedby comparison. I learned that Union students utilize and responsibly manage the freedom handed to them. A perfect ex- ample of the importance and the necessity of this freedom can be seen in the product the on cam- pus group,· the Peer Facilitators. This group concerns itself with relevant and popular issues con- cerning the student body. We are a group of 1'0 students who com- mit much time each week, to not only enricl1 ourselves and each other, but the campus as a whole. We create many valuable work- shops including date rape and di- versity workshops, both manda- tory events for incoming Fresh- men. We l10pe to communicate and connect with the student body on a down to earth and real level. We pride ourselves on the notion that we are \Peers'' a bunch of typical students calling attention to important issues in efforts to stimulate productive discussion. We aim to raise thought and edu- cate, achieve both within the con- fines of our meeting as well as through our workshops and spon- sored events and speakers. If you too realize the earlier addressed freedom and wish to participate and contribute to an active com- munity, we would love to receive your application to become a Peer Facilitator. Applications will be avaitable today at our booth in the college center from 11 :00-l:OO, and will also be available tomor- row. Monday and Tuesday - same place, same time. We all must recognize, and therefor ex- ercise, the importance and privi- lege of an effective voice within a student body that is truly appre- .ciated and respected. Becoming a Peer Facilitator is an ideal way of serving our campus as well as learning and growing as both a student and an individual. . Letters to the Editor must be turned in by noon on Tuesday and they must be on a disk. There are no exceptions. -Send to Box 2577 or put in the drop box at CC 303 Editorials, Letters & Disclaimers Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP-ED Page and must be received by 5 p.m. the Tuesday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. Final Decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed, although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial hoard. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and no one member in particular. Any opinion columns reflect the opinions of the writers, and not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial Board. Advertisements appearing in The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinion ofthe Editorial Board. The Concordiensis is published Eight Thursdays a tenn by the students of Union College. It is funded in part by the Stttdent Activities Fee. The Concordiensis, copyright 1993, all rights reserved. Box2577, College Center, Union ColJege, Schenectady, NY 12308. Telephone (518) 370-6155. The Concordieflsis is published by The Leader Herald, 8-10 East Fulton Street, Gloversville, New York 12078. The Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP), National Student News Service, King Syndicates. SUBMISSIONS : All submissions are due the Tuesday before publication at 4 p.m. if they are submitted on either Macintosh Microsoft Word disks; or MS·Dos Microsoft Word or Wordperfect disks .. Otherwise all submissions are due Monday by 4 p.m. in the drop box outside of The Ctmcordien.~is office on the third floor of the College Center.

Co-Chairs Sought for Orientation Committee To the editor: Orientation has·atways been a significant part of the Freshman's year at Union College. In order to make it this, a group of indi- viduals known as the Orientation Committee are gathered together to be the backbone of the whole orientation process. At the root of this committee are two indi- . viduals who serve as co-chairs of orientation. At this time it is with great enthusiasm that I, along with the help of Dean Schurick, will be choosing the final Co- Chair of Orientation. The job of Co-Chair is one that will take a great amount of patience, dedica- tion, and persistence. The Co- Chairs will choose the Orientation Committee, who will in turn choose the Orientation Advisors. The responsibilities are great and the reward of personal satisfac- tion is high. Applications are available to- day at the information booth and at Dean Schurick's office. Ap- plications are due into Dean Schurick's office by noon on Monday January, 17th. At that time it will be necessary that the applicant sign up for an interview time. Applications for Orienta- tion Committee will be made available next week. With your help Orientation 1994 can be a .great success. Sincerely, Chuck Rodman The ~First Station in the Nation Needs You! To the Editor, Regrettably, WRUC has been forced to trim promotions delay scheduled equipment purchases, and suspend some programming due to fading financial support. WRUC is funded entirely by the highly political Student Govern- ment and Finance Committee. Their support of Union's his- tory-making radio station, pre- viously excellent, has begun to disintegrate. Our yearly operat- illg budget has been chopped in half since 1991. Given the hard economic realities these past years, WRUC has been more than willing to voluntarily streamline our operations, In fact in 1992, we returned unspent funds directly back to the Student Activities account. However, un- fairly deep cuts forced upon us by administrative bodies who have never reviewed our yearly oper- ating requirements, nor toured our facility, require us to take this action. Voice your support of stu- dent-operated WRUC by contact- ing your class representatives and members of the Finance Commit- tee. Signed, Jason Lietz Program Manager Do You have an Opinion you would like.to express to the college community or something to say about W:!re <Uonco~oi.ensis? Well, write a letter to the editor. Send them to Box 2577. Letters January 13, 1994, Page 9 . RA Selection Begins. Would You Like to Own a·Microfridge? To All Interested Parties, Do you own a microfridge? I do. And do you know how I got it for free? I became a Union College RA. And now Residence Life is looking for enthusiastic students who are up for the chal- lenge of being an RA and own- ing their very own jet black microfridge. Resident's Life is looking for responsible students who enjoy working with, and caring about, others in a very close community environment. As an RA you will be responsible for your own floor in one of the residence halls on campus. You will be expected to enforce school policies as well as · contribute to educational and so- cial development of the students on your floor. While you are ex- pected to act as a representative ofthe administration at all times, this by no means, limits your per- sonal experience at Union Col- lege. In fact, the skills you learn by becoming an RA, and the ex- perience you receive from work- ing closely with others, will not only enhance your life at Union, but your future as well. Aside from the leadership skills you gain, you will also receive certain benefits which are not available to the regular student body. Along with your own single which includes luxurious Delta Phi furniture, Residence Life picks up 80% of the tab and gives you a steady pay-check. What more could you possibly ask for? If becoming an RA sounds great to you, come to either of two info. sessions at OLD CHAPEL on THURSDAY, JANUARY 20 at 4:00PM or SUNDAY, JANU- ARY 23 at 6:30PM. You will receive the application fonn and will be able to ask current RA' s any questions you may have. Remember, Residence Life seeks an eclectic blend ofenthu- siastic personalities who yearn to savor this most wholesome expe- rience; after all, \Variety is the Spice of Res. Life!\ Freshmen, you are invited to attend: The Original Hangover Helper Saturday, January 15th, llAM Political Correctness Has Invaded The 1990's, and is Ridding Society of Individuality To the Editor America learned many things during the 1980's. From the coin- age of the phrase, \Politically Correct\. to its infamous antith- esis, \Greed is good\ the coun- try found itself at a cross-roads where two separate trains of thought tugged at the hearts and minds of the masses to establish dominance. Now that we have entered the 1990's, it seems as if the \Politically Correct\ camp has won its bout. Forgive me, but I am about to do something that is rather politically incorrect, in that I am going to voice my own opin- ion. I think that the whole p.c movement is both a farce and a fad. l11e way I see it, and remem- ber this is only one person's opin- ion, is that the dogma of political correctness undenninesone ofthe basic tenets ofhuman nature. The culture of p.c. seems to place each individual into neatly regimented groups. As I sit here listening to Aaron Copeland's \Appalachian Suite\ .. I can't help but to recall all those early American History lessons about the wild west and how we as a country and a people grew. It is a time of so-called mg- ged individualism where people were free to explore their dreams and speak their minds. How does this relate to what I stated above, you may ask? Simply stated, be- ing politically correct stifles that individualism, that spirit which perpetuated our growth. Every- body is so afraid of offending somebody, which is evident in the amount of editorials this newspa,. per receives. Life is not cut and dry, black or white; If the found- ing fathers of our nation didn't speak their minds in Philadelphia, then perhaps we would be with- out a Constitution or Declaration of Independence. You can be sure that the decisions they made at the time were not reached by following the p.c. standards of the time. Another facet ofthis fad known as p.c. is equally bewildering. Does changing \history\ to \herstory\ really make a differ- ence in the longrun? And another thing, being a white individual, am I a White-American, or to be more precise, and Italian-Ger- man-American? Are all black people African American? What happens if they are aborigine sfrom Australian American. Yes, this is rather pointless, but this is the type of mentality that is be- hind this p.c. movement. Why must everybody be placed ill a certain rebrimented brroup? I mean I am white and Charles Manson is white, does that mean that we belong in the same group? After reading this, many may want to put me in the same category. But that is your opinion and you are entitled to it. Why just can:t I be who I am and you be whatever you are? Skin color should not even enter into the picture. I have always treated people fairly re- gardless oftheir race, intelligence, or height. Frankly, I couldn't care less if you are vertically chal- lenged. Or is it I who is the chal- lenged one because I am not the acceptable parameters or society? Why must I live by the standards that a few narrow minded indi- viduals deem is correct. It is po- litically correct, that black people can cheer to Louis Farrakhan's remarks about a black man kill- ing only whites and Asians on a commuter train? Surely. if the races had been reversed, the black community, led by the likes of Sharpton and Farrakhan, would have been up in anns! Call me conservative, reactionary, or whatever you wish and I .,., on 't care. but call me racist, harsh, or uncaring and I will, because those words don't describe who I truly am. I am an individual who is not afraid to speak ,my mind or con- vey my thoughts and feelings. You as an individual have the right to agree or disagree or do whatever you want. But please don'tjumpon thep.c. bandwagon and criticize instead, fonnulate your own opinion. my box num- ber is 20, and I welcome any re- sponse you may have. Signed, Edward Achtner

. ' .... January 13, 1994, Page 10 Campus News Personals. GOOD LUCK Draizin, Dara, Turtle- Gauntt, Shelby, Sue, Ann- I love you more today than the To the Phi Delt Brothers, Noelle and Rock! Keep in day we learned stoichiometry We all had a great time at touch. Can't wait to see you in \The Harvest\. Thanks so the spring! Snow Bunny- much! Love, I'm glad da Bear family is Love the Gamma Phis The Sisters of SDT happy again. Love you! Deck the halls with music To the sisters of Delta Gamma, to the Crazy BDC President - blasting, fa-la-la-la-la-la-la-la- Delta Delta Delta, and Gamma You can't appeal to people's Ia, People on the bars were Phi Beta, intellectual side and that is that. dancing, fa-la-la~la-la-la-la-Ia- GOOD LUCK during Rush I love getting the last word in Ia, Thank you boys·ofSigma and have fun! an argument with you. Love, Xi, fa-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la, We Love, The Stamp Woman The Sisters of SDT had fun, the Gamma Phis .. , .. fa- I a-la-la-la-la-Ia-la-la!! Mike, One down, two to go. To the brothers of Chi Psi, Wann help me meet my Welcome back SDT Juniors Thanks for the party last Friday graduation goals? am from tenn abroad!! We missed night. We had a great time!! you, (especially Laurie and Love; Senio Lab Rat seeking Female Christine). It hasn't been the The Sisters of SDT Rat to experiment with. same without you! Llij- To the Sisters of Delta Delta Love, Stop talking to Eric!!! Delta, Gamma Phi Beta, and The Sisters of SOT Love Asil Sigma Delta Tau, Best of luck during Rush! To the Brothers of ZBT, Winnie, -The Sisters ofDelta Gamma Black & White, Don't forget to tum the motor FIJI - We had a blast! Thanks!! We did it right- off before you lock the doors. -The Sisters .of DG You made us want to party AAA through the night!! Vrginia, Stewart, I like you. You're not From the sisters of like the other guys,here in the Delta Delta Delta. I love you!! -Wiggle trailer park. Robert A von Smith Surpmer Research Fellowship in Bio-Medical Engineering · . At Union College · This fellowship is sponsored by Robert Avon Smith Class of 1952. It is awarded to students in the sciences of engineering who participate in a summer research program in bio-medical engineering under the guidance of college faculty. An award of $2000 will be made available to a student se- lected on the basis of ability to conduct independent research in the field and committment to the summer research program. Awards shall ordinarilly be made to students for research in the summer between the junior and senior years; if income is sufficient, however, awards may be granted, upon recomendation of the faculty to stu- dents of high promist; for research conducted in the summer between the sophomore and junior year, which awards could then be renewed the following summer. Every effort shall be made to insure that once a project and its focus has been determined, it shall be funded on a yearly basis (even with different students) if the results warrant a continuance. Students interested i~ applying for the summer 1994 fellow- ship should contact Professor J. Richard Shanebrook, Department of Mechanical Engineering as soon as possible. Graduating Students: Clas.sijieds. BABYSITTER wanted for Tod- Case Aides Wanted: To work dler. Monday and Friday re- quired,. Avg. 10 hrs./wk. Car needed. Ask for Pamela. 371- 1424. Share my palais royal e .... 2 bedroom apartment, I and a half blocks from campus. Off st. parking, clean, safe. $155/ mo. + utilities and long distance. Security, lease. 347-2937. Hispanic Outreack Services seeks Union students in development of mentoring and tutoring program. Any amount of time would be helpful! For further info. feel free to contact Joe Kotright-Gonzalez at the CDC. x6l76. ** SPRINGBREAK94** Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica, Florida and Padre! 110% Lowest Price Guarantee!. Organize 15 friends and your trip is free! (800) 328-SAVE 10 hours per week on campus for local youth serving agency. Duties include phone supervi- . sion of volunteers/clients, basic assessment and problem solving. Human Services background prefen:ed. Call Big Brothers/ Big Sisters at 374- 45.23. FREE TRIPS AND MONEY!! Individuals and Student Organizations wanted to promote the Hottest Spring Break Destinations, call the nation's leader. Inter-Campus Programs. 1-800-327-6013. CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING- Earn up to $2,000+/ month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour companies. World -' travel. Summer & Full-Time employment available .. No experience necesSai)'. For more information call 1-206-636- 0468 ext.C5188 The Philosophy Department is Pleased to announce the winners for their crossword puzzl~ con- tests in Fall Term. The Ethics· ~ , r • , 1 J Crossword Puzzle winner is Tracy A. Bush '97 and the Metaphysics & Epistemology Puzzle Winner is Esther Levy '95. Congratulations! Winners should see Mrs. Snowden in the philosophy Department to claim their prize. The office of Educational Studies would like to remind student inters ted in entering the pro gram that the deadline for undergraduate application is January 15th. Please stop by our office at 27 North Col- lege for an application. If you have any questions or concerns we can be reached at 388-6361. Schaffer Library Book Sale: Resume Deadline for On-Campus Recruiting; Friday, January 21st by 5:00pm Wednesday, February 9th Sale will be held 12:00-4:00pm on the first floor Career Development Center, Third Floor, Old Chapel ·-

Arts & Entertainment January 13, 1994, Page 11 Alan Gussow to speak on \The Function of Art in The Post-Nuclear-Age\ Courtesy of tile Visual Arts Department Noted artist/curator Alan Gussow will deliver a talk titled \Tite Function of Art in the Post- Nuclear Age\ on Wednesday, Januruy 19th, in the College Cen- ter Auditorium at 7:30pm, as part of the Union College Minerva Lecture Series. 'Mr. Gussow's talk will include slide and video presentation. Gussow is currently serving as a visiting professor at Middlebury College [his alma mater] teach- ing 'Environment, Culture and Perception'. · There have been forty-one solo showings of his art, in addition to his active curato- rial work, the most recent ex- ample of which is 'The Artist as Native; Reinventing Regional- ism', organized in conjunction with Babcock Galleries of New York City. 'The Artist As Native' exhibition will travel extensively throughout 1994, including The Albany Institute of History and Art, January 15- March 6. This exhibition entails the work of 52 artists selected from throughout· the United States. There is a full- color catalog of the exhibition with comments by each partici- pating artist. Alan Gussow also curated the Mohawk-Hudson Art Exhibition hosted by the Albany Institute of History and Art last sptmg. In addition to his artwork and teaching, Alan Gussow has, since 1969, served as an expert witness on natural and scenic beauty is- sues, defending the landscape against major intrusions such as transmission lines andhighways. Gussow has been consulted by the Federal Office of Surface Mining on strip mine land restoration and in 1978 was an Associate Planner on theHudsonRiverValley Study commissioned by the New York State Department ofEnvironmen- tal Conservation. Author of A Sense of Place: The Artist and the American Land [1972], Alan Gussow has written widely on ecological issues. In 1990~ among other talks, he was a guest lecturer in Tokyo in an international pro- gram organized by the College Women's association in Japan [topic: 'The Earth as Home and Habitat']. He was also invited in 1990 to address the First Interna- tional Eco City Conference in Berkeley. Gussow, former President of America the Beautiful Fund, served for many years as Chair- man of the Board of Friends of the Earth in the U.S. Once de- scribed by the New York Times as 'artist in residence for Mother Earth', Alan Gussow served on the Editorial Board of Land'tcape Journal and was the founder of the Artist-in-Residence Program in the National Parks. Chet's Corner DO YOU HAVE THE WINTERTIME BLUES? Is the cold weather making you feel depressed? Is the snow forcing you to consider hibernat~on until the groundhog appeats this spring? H0pefully you '11 be saying no to depression and yes to CHET'S this winter! This Timrsday, January 13th is CHET'S GRAND REOPENING!!! TI1e Senior Class is spon- soring Mitch Frasier, beginning at 10 P.M .. Mitch Frazier plays all of your favorites on accoustic gui- tar. So after Seinfeld, bundle up and join your friends Since 1982, Gussow has also directly organized or assisted in the development of: Life Yard Prqjects [installations celebrating personal attachments to life threatened by either nuclear arms or environmental degradation] in Santa Cruz, San Francisco, Port- land, The Berkshires, Minneapo- lis, and the Lower Hudson River Valley; the Intemational Shadow Prqject in 1985 in which more than 15,000 people in 400 cities world-wide commemorated the 40th anniversary of the Hiroshima bombing by painting more than 125,000 shadow im- ages on streets and sidewalks; on the 45th anniversruy ofthat event, he organized The Mushroom Prqject in which shadow images of all endangered life -whales, dolphins, children, rain forest trees, insects and more were painted on streets, etc.; the visual elements [set, lighting design, costume decoration and poster] for Journey, a modern dance pre- miered in New York by the Avodah Dance Ensemble; and a one week workshop titled Of?jecls (~f Power-Building Outdoor .)'culplure at the Omega Institute. After graduating from Middlebury College, Gussow at- tended the Cooper Union Art School [NYC}, and won the cov- eted Prix de Rome in painting and later presented with an award in art from the American Academy photo by Martin Benjamin for this popular Union College tradition. For those of you that haven't yet ventured past the Dutch Hollow Validine Registers, check out the changes that have taken place at Chet's! We have replaced the old portable bar with a beautiful new one. We have also added a projection T.V., two T.V. monitors, a new sound. system, and new wooden chairs. After Timrsday night, Chefs is hosting a Happy Hour (T.G.I.F.) this Friday from 4-9. All students and faculty are welcome and encouraged to stop'by: Free food is a great way to start off this weekend. Remember you don't have to be 21 to enter Chet's, only to drink! CHET'S WINTER HOURS ARE AS FOLLOWS: WEDNTS. 8·1 photo by David Etnier and Institute of Arts and Letters in 1977. He served as Artist in · Residence at the American Acad- emy in Rome, December 1986 - January 1987, completing a suite of pastel pieces prompted by the Etmscans. All of Alan Gussow's work, art or otherwise, reflects his belief \ .. .in the ecological viewpoint, a vision beyond boundaries, in which the role of the artist is to provide meaning and fonn to ex- periences in order that those ex- periences might be shared.\ ARTIST RECEPTION THURSDAY, JANUARY 20, 4-6 PM • I ARTS BUILDING SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK Featuring Photographs by Martin Benjamin & Prints by Sandy Wimer

'· January 13, 1994, page 12 Environmental News Industry Capitalizes on Pollution Abatement by Eric Habib Environmental Editor go down to level Y. The Clean Air Act allows for a utility to de· crease its emissions further than the law requires. So if an electric company is required to go down to Y, and it puts on some pollu- tion abatement control device that reduces emissions to Y-5, that decrease will open up pollution allowances that it can save for the trees, or wherever. In fact, acid rain has been blamed for damag- ing lakes and forests in New York, especially in the Adirondack Park, because the state is downwind from Midwest utilities that bum high-sulfur coal. Environmentalists in New York complain that this national sys- tem under which pollution cred- The United States has had con- siderable difficulty dealing with air pollution. In fact, some of its successes in dealing with air qual- i,ty have created new problems. For example, the use of tall smokesta'cks to reduce local air pollution has helped to worsen regional problems Hke acid rain. Created by Congress under the Clean Air Act of 1990; the 'pol- lution allowance' system was de- signed to give utilities flexibility in achieving a nation-wide reduc- tion of sulfur dioxide emissions, a major cause of acid rain. 1l1e program begins in 1995 for about II 0 electric power plants. About 800 other sulfur dioxide emitters will be added to the list in the year 2000. European Cartoons on Acid Rain The cornerstone of this provi- sion to the 1990 law was to 'mar- ket' sulfur dioxide pollution cred- its. The EPA has assigned each utility an emissions target that it must meet beginning in 1995. Companies that beat their target can sell leftover allowances to utilities that are exceeding their emissions target. Each allowance corresponds to 1 ton of sulfur di- oxide pol1ution. Market forces detenn ine the price. This is the first time a market based ap- proach has beenjmplemented to fight air pollution. \Well or last-the government is taking action against acid rain! .. (!iaitzlng.r, tz-Munlch) Under the 1990 law, some com- panies will cut emissions less than . others. OveralL however, air pol- lution should decrease because the government will hand out fewer pollution credits every year. Gradually, utilities will be forced to reduce overall sulfur dioxide output. The goal is to reduce out- put of sulfur dioxide from 20 mil- lion tons today to 10 million tons in the year 2010. A large coal burning facility that emits X may be required to future or sell. 1l1e major incen- tive is that it will have additional allowances, like stocks or bonds, that it can sell on the market, and perhaps make a profit, while still doing justice for the environment and complying with the Clean Air Act. Sulfur dioxide pollution is a byproduct of fossil fuel combus- tion that floats into the atmo- sphere, mingles with water vapor and falls to earth as acid rain. Sul- fur dioxide particles can travel hundreds or thousands of miles before they are deposited on the ground, buildings, streams, lakes, : · King Crossword ACROSS I. One of Santa's ~~~---+-~-+--- team 6. Saws 12. Prodigal 13. In abundartce 14. Reluctant 15. Navy rank 16. Only 17. Top-rated 19. Negating word 20. Ooze t:;;;--t--t--P.!!l\'l-t--t--+---1~- __ t---t 22. Work unit 24. Omelet ingredient 27. Pend 29. Orchestra member 32. Escapeftom prison 35. Ronny Howard ~-+--+-1-\t---t-- role 36. Dk 37. Rep.'s foe 38. Society page word 40. Repast. 42. Slob 44. Out of the stonn 46 ... What's - for me?\ SO. Waken 2. Finished 3.Muds 4. Slalom maneuver S. Chicago griddets 6.Jronand Bronze 11. Remitted 33. Victory sign 12. On the - 34, Gteek letter (fleeing) 39. Careful 18. Embodiment mover 21. Lamb's 41. Tablecloth guardian material 23. \Kings -\ 42. Ashen 24. OD.e kind of 43. Strike while its are traded does little to pro- tect the Adirondack Park in north- em New York. Thomas Jorling, Commis- sioner of the NYS DEC, showed concern about which companies bought credits at a first-of-its kind auction by the U.S. EPA and the Chicago Board of Trade in March. At this auction pollution credits sold for unexpectedly low prices. Depending upon which compa- nies buy pollution permits and which companies convert to lower-sulfur fuels.or invest in pol- lution-fighting equipment, New York State's environment may be at risk. If utilities from Illinois, In- diana, and Ohio (massive pollut- ers) stock up on cheap pollution credits their emissions could pol- lute New York's environment, in particular the Adirondack region. New York State and The Adirondack Council are two liti- gants opposing the EPA New York State wants to have a 'say' in any pollution from outside state coming in. The legal community is looking into, and the courts will decide, whether that is allowable by the Clean Air Act. EPA offi- cials argue, however, tlmt the pur- pose of the Clean Air Act is to keep this market or trading mechanism unencumbered and free of any constraints on the lo- cal level. Utilities can comply with pol- lution restrictions in several ways: they can use pollution-control de- vices, burn cleaner fuels, or tl1ey can buy a certain tonnage of al- lowances on the open market. The Chicago Board of Trade holds an 52 ... Dennis the -\ 7. \Inferno .. writer 8.Cappand Pacino trip? it's bot 25. Rep.'s org. 45. Not as m~.~<:h *No group minimums for this perfect \semester break\ vacation! 54. Rotten ~uy11 55. Football team 56. Comes in 51. Baseball teams DOWN 1. Grotto ,--- 9. Turning ·rotten 10. Therefore 26. Becoming 47. Oluh:hpll!t extinguished , 48. Frosts 28 ... _and a Baby\ 49. Sawbuck 30. Cry for the · 51, Exploit toreador 53. Yale student 3 L Shade tree . - ~------·-- ____ .....,. ---\\\'---·-- auction in which utilities can buy or sell pollution credits. Most importantly, utilities can never . exceed what is already specified by state law. For that reason a company cannot continuously buy tons and tons and tons ofpol- lution credits and never get clean. Furthermore, as the· cost of EPA pollution allowances rise,. utilities may decide to work toward elimi- nating pollution instead .of buy- ing the permits. In 1995 the new air pollution regulations will take effect. When it comes to the end of that year utilities must have the proper amount of allowances or they will be in trouble. There will be crimi- nal and civil penalties, usually in the form offines. For example, if a utility is allowed to emit 100 tons in 1996 and it puts out 11 0 tons, in 1997 it will be allowed to emit a maximum of 90 tons. In addition, there would be a $20,000 fine, $2,000 per ton of sulfur dioxid~ over the limit. Environmental groups, such as the Natural Resources Defense Council, are trying to clean up the air by purchasing and retiring pollution credits. One not-for~ profit group is entering the new market of buying U.S Environ- mental Protection Agency pollu- tion allowances. This group~ s goal is to put l 0 percent of tbe available pennits in the hands of non-profit groups in order to keep them away from polluters. ' • VERMONT

SCIENCE & HEALTH January 13, 1994, Page 13 The Cellular Biology Behind Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome by Glenn T. Konopaske Contributing Writer History: l11e first recorded case was in Los Angeles about 1979. The term Acquired Immune Defi- ciency Syndrome (AiDS) was . coine~ in 19_81. A· group headed by Dr .. Luc Montagnier at the 'lnstitut Pasteur in Paris isolated the HIV in May 1983 mid called it lymphadenopathy associated virus (LA V). In 1984 Dr. Robert Gallo and his research team at the · National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Maryland isolated a similar virus and called it' T- lymphotropic vi·rus type-III (I-ITL V -IH). l11e two viruses. have been f<?und to be virtually identi- caL Biology t?f Human l11imunod~fi.:· ciency Viruses: HIV is a lentiretrovirus with a genetic complexity not seen pre- viously among any class of Retroviruses. Its insidious nature is severalfold: HIV is tropic and lytic for immunologically impor- tant CD4+ T-helper cells; it inte- grates into host cell DNA where it can remain dormant for ex- tended periods;. it latently infects cells of monocyte lineage thatcan migrate throughout the body it is neurotrophic; and its antigenic and biologic properties ate het- erogeneous. The virus has evolved au affin- ity for the human CD4 molecule and a replication cycle that is cy- topathic for ·host ceHs.: I-IIV-1 binds, penetrates,/eplicates in, and destroys CD4 T cells; The result is numerical and functional depletion of theses cells over ' _, \r : .,;l:·~\it .. . . ~:· Treating spinal cord injuries '· Central nervous sysfl'rn r----------. Types of injuries Most spinal cord injuries are the· resuft of direct damage to the spine, such as fractures or dislocatiOns or both. Addtlional damage to lhe spinal cord Is caused by swelling and inflammation that damages ceUs within the spinal COlumn. Treatment methods Diaphragm- \ Deltoids, Bqps-- Wrist extensors- · a Methylprednisolone (MP): In 1990, researchers found that thiS synthetic steroid prevented some paralysis when gMHI within eight hours of a severe spinal cord injury. MP reduces the Inflammation and swelling that can cause additional~ cord damage; scientists believe that its greatest value is reducing cell damage. New findings • Laboratory conditions have been created that allow central nervous system cells to regenerate. • Experiments wHh.lransplanted fetal cells show that loSt neurons can be replaced and fos~r nerve growth ~ repa~. • Promising research Is being done with non-fetal cells to be transplanted in the spinal cotd 10 help recovery. SOURCES: American P111~111~. Miami Project to Cure ParDj~ly of ..-.ml time. Decline of CD4+ T cells results in progressive paralysis of immune responses, rendering the infected person susceptible to opportunistic infections and ma- lignancies (i.e. Kaposi's Sarcoma, Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia and others). HIV can be detected using the enzyme linked immunoabsorbant assay (ELISA) test which is based on the principle that purified vi- ral proteins attached to a substrate (beads or the internal surface of the test tube or rnicrowell) bind specifically to anti-HIV antibody present in human serum. The bound antibody can, in tum, be- come bound to heterologous an- tibody, anti-human immunoglo- bulin (anti-human IgG). When the later is tagged with an enzyme capable of catalyzing a color gen- erating chemical reaction, the amount of color produc;,ed-after removal of excess anti-human IgG-· is qualitatively related to the amount of anti-IDV antibody present in the sample of serum. A positive ELISA test is verified by a more elaborate, more spe- cific test, usually the immuno- electrophoretic \Western Blot\ test that detects antibodies to vari- ous viral proteins. Strategies for therapy are in five categories. First, drugs pre- viously identified to have either broad spectrum antiviral activity (ribavirin, interferon) or specific antiretrov:iral activity (suramin, phosphonoformate) can be rap- idly tested against mv -1 infec- tion. Second, existing agents can be modified to create analogs with greater specific activity against HIV-1 (2-3- dideoxycytidine}. Third, new compounds specific for HIV-1 can be identified using in vitro screening techniques. Three such assays in current use monitor re- duction in HIV-1 mediated lysis of susceptible cel:ls, inhibition of virus-induced cytopathic effect, or release of reverse transcriptase into the supernatant. Fourth, spe- cific therapeutics previously de- veloped for similar immune defi- ciency syndromes (bone marrow transplantation, intravenous gamma globulin) can be used alone or in combination with spe- cific antiviral therapy. Fifth, new HIV-1 ·specific therapies can be devised as more is learned about the virus and its interactions with the host (recombinant soluble CD4). The Microscopic World of the Ham burger by Kenny Lee Co- Science Editor The problem with the cleanli- n~ss of the beef and the meat- packing industry dates back to the beginning of this century with Upton Sinclair's book, The Jungle, which chronicles the abuses in the industry. The prob- lem is as evident today as ever, due to the outbreak of Escherichia coli(E.coli) in a fast food restaurant in Washington D.C .. Two deaths have resulted from this and thus concem overf microorganisms in beef is grow- ing. E.coli, specifically E.coli Ol57:h7, is a variant ofhuman E. coli and is considered a human pathogen. The symptoms have wide range, from none to kidney failure and death. The bacteria tact. This bacteria along with oth- ers, including Listeria and Salmo- nella, are among a growing list of microorganisms which are the concern of the food safety and inspections service. The food service and inspec- tion service has a program called the Pathogen Reduction Progratn which was fonned on the premise to elirninate all microorganisms. The plan starts by re-training the inspectors to focus not in every carcass, but on microorganism testing and statistics to say what places are risky. Also involved is the risk analysis which works on targeting points where patho- gens may enter. This evaluation, although expensive, would lead to more sanitary measures taken on the farm, this might include the way the animals are raised and vaccinations against human dis- can be transmitted through con- eases. TI1e \hot spot\ of this work is working on finding a way to see if bacteria is present and to find a way to irradicate them. Scientists are trying to develop a test in which they can detect the pres- ence of25 different kinds of Bac- teria in meats, within minutes, but again this is very costly. Irradication is the consenting method of irradication, although it is still in it's test stage. TI1is situation is tricky in that the gains (killing microorganisms) must be balanced against the ·losses (pos- sibly losing vitamins and chemi- cals formed in the meat). Although there are opposing views on how to change the sys- tem, the common link is that a change must take place. At this time we have to continue to stick with the \good old american ham- burger\ and wait for reform. A Shrimp Allergen Has Finally Been Detected by Andy Salama Co-Science Editor Approximately one percent of adults have allergies to foods. The most common culprits of these reactions are nuts, dyes and shellfish. Allergies to shellfish account for 25% of all food aller- gies. Some of these allergies re- st!lt from the high amounts of io- dine found in shellfish. Despite the fact that iodine is need by the thyroid gland, high amounts de- rived from shellfish can cause al- lergic reactions. Recently, researchers in India have identified a protein which seem~ to be responsible for the allergic reactions to shrimp. TI1e antigen, or causative agent of the immune response is a common muscle protein called tropomyo- sin. Tropomyosin is found in al- most all animals, and its stntcture and function is highly conserved throughout the species especially in crustaceans. Because tro- pomyosin is so similar in cmsta- ceans, people who exhibit aller- gies to shrimp will most likely have similar symptoms with crabs and lobsters. Allergic reactions are a result of an immune response. TI1e im- mune system works by produc- ing proteins called immunoglobu- lins, which then circulate in the blood stream where they bind to foreign bodies(i.e. bacteria, for- eign proteins, and viruses). An- tibodies bind to antigens by rec- ognizing surface proteins or other distinguishing characteristics. Once binding occurs several types of cellular responses can occur. In one case the antigen can be blocked from entering any cells of the organism. In another case, where the antigen has al- ready entered cells, the antibody sends cellular signals for the or- ganism to destroy the infected cell. Allergic reactions are most often limited to itching sensa- tions, swelling, abdominal pain, and diarrhea. A much more se- vere reaction called anaphylactic shock, however, can be life threatening. Studies on shrimp tropomyosin revealed that there are two f>OS- sible binding sites for the anti- body called IgE. TI1ese binding sites are called epitopes. Intheory isolated epitopes could be used to treat the allergy. Because they consist of only part of the anti- gen, epitopes would not necessar- ily trigger a full immune response and eventually ove1time desensi- tize the immune system to the full antigen, tropomyosin. Source: NewY ork Times, De- cember 1993.

RUBES® By .Leigh Rubin \I Crealors Syndicate, hie. C 1 993 Leigh Rubin! ~ ·~·· It\ APRtL ~I t I I I . I l:_ Once a year, Pinocchlo slipped back into his old habit. By I z- 0 7 c:--KW\'11 ~elil't. ... Inc. o '199:S L Rublnt As the defendant approached the witness stand. he began to have grave doubts he was actually considered Innocent until proven guilty. RUBES® By Leigh Rubin Crealors Syndica1a,lnc. o 1993 Leigh Rubin! Much to her dismay, Gloria came home to find her husband In the arms of an udder woman. ,..._ _ __. __ ,..,--··-· -.-. -·~·------.....-----..~

SPORTS ATTENTION JUNIORS Student Forum Wants You! ! Run for Junior ~Class Representative Pick up petitions NOW in Student Activities . IMPQRTANTDATES: Petitions due in Stu.dent Activities Jan. 17 Statements and Pictures in Concordi Jan. 17 Taken at 7 p.m in CC 303 ·ELECTIONS Jan.23 January 13, 1994, page 15 ,.,. •, '. ·-~- - . ' ~inat\~e ~¢&lin¥. two goals and , disliiing;out..one assist in an g,.; · •i(}~$· '~ .• ·., · · · :the split on tl'l¢. . tdiiimlstba~v.e been pretty · · · • .· hb pert'o.r .. ·· ..• w1•t:n. F6rd~s great perfor .. :s3rnahee un tbe road he earned • . hiinself ECAC Rookie of the Week. Agreathonor, butnoth .. ing compared to our award. Ford now stands fifth in the ij'e$ltrfi:i\Jtllt'tlfnl .. Rochester, league in goals with only hav- We~York .· · goals ,in only ing played seven league games. fi:v~je~g;tl~ games. . · Every other team has played ten · . Last .Friday tl1e team went on teague _games. Look for Ford . +uro~d tnp with;~eSi:!.tJtftte.d stops to have another stunning perfor- ~~C()m~ll'®d>Oolgate. Friday rrtance against RPI as we hope- :J~stJwP.P¢1ledto h~ For.<r s birth~ fully thrash them. Well that's day;;tnd his wisll came true with aH for this week campers good Un~n~s first Division I hat trick luck to all yon-athletes that have .iu11\t~e;•:years. Hi$ perfonnance hQpes of so1ne day winning this t~ad.'\tlttJA1~!<ta 6;,2 vfctoty,: Tbe prestigkms award, and good . tteXcf\nignt '\tet$US Colgate, Ford luck to the hockey team in their Ini:&-'attotlier d1izzting perfor~ upcoming games. GET YOUR KICKS from the Union College Karate Club No Experience Necessary!! First class of the term on Friday, January 14 at 7:00p.m. in th·e multipurpose room in the gym. Ken Evans overpowers Swarthmore defender at Union Invy. (photo hy Josh Haines/TC) Attention! Attention! All Union Students! Have guy or gal problems? The folks annoying you to death? Don't know what to do? Then write into Union's own Dear Abbey. The .. Concordiensis wo.uld like to intro_duce to you our new col- umn, Dear Cathy. Dear Cathy is here for you. Please write in with any prob- lems or concerns that you may have and want addressed. There will he a response to your letters within neXt weeks · Concordiensis. Since confidentiality is a must, it is asked of you to sign your letters with an alias. Happy writing I Please drop your letter in campus mail addressed to: Dear Cathy, Box # 2577 .. ..-...-- To be considered for financial aid, you ·need to apply! Upperclass aid applications are available through the financial aid office in Becker Hall. To be considered for all financial aid programs, the FAF b-ooklet and F AFSA renewal appli-cation or booklet must be forwarded to CSS by March 1, 1994. All other application materials are due to the financial aid office by April15, ·1994 . -~- ... ...

~ • \'· 0 - ... ~ - ., -~ .-;- January 13, 1994 PAGE 16 Wly£ Qlonrorlki£nsis Men's Basketball Shocks Top-ranke(_/ Teams Steve Evans breaking the NYU press in overtime. He Scored 32 points and handed out 12 assists en route to being named MVP of Union lnvy. - Dutchmen Defeat Fourth-ranked Williams, 80-78, and Stun #1 0 NYU, 105aml01, in Double OT. by .Joe Saltzbart Associate Sports Editor After a mediocre start, the Var- sity Men's Basketball Team has come together to knock off na- tionally ranked teams and make a nm at post season play. Co-cap- tains Steve and Kenny Evans have combined tough defense and high scoring to lead the Dutch- men to a 6-3 record halfway through their difficult schedule. Head Coach Bill Scanlon and as- sistant Bob Montana, have to be happy with the play of their young team and hope to reach a post season toumament for the lirst time 111 many years. The team's three loses have all resulted in close fought battles, losing twice to Albany State 74- 66, 68-66 and to highly regarded Ithaca 69-65. Yet in between these tough loses, Union Basket- ball has handily defeated Skidmore, Vassar, and Wesleyan. The starting five, made up of se- nior Steve Evans (guard), sopho- more Jamie Haver (guard), se- niorKen Evans (forward), Junior Mark Stodden (forward), and sophomore Reinis Kanders (foward) demonstrated to the rest of the state that they are a domi- nated force in Division 11.1 Bas- ketball. Most recently, the Union men defeated nationally 4th ranked Williams and won the Union In- vitational by defeating Swarthmore and nationally I Oth ranked NYU. By playing good defense, the basketball squad erased a 65-\53 William lead late in the game to beat one of the Sports Illustrated's top ten teams. Junior Marcelo Tellez shot one high off the glass to give Union the lead with four seconds to play. Junior Dave Dagostino, the son of a sharecropper, came off the bench to give Union solid min- utes down the stretch and help Ken Evans scored his 1 OOOth career point with this three- pointer on Saturday. Evans scored 2 7 points. (PHOTOGRAPHS by Josh Haines/TC) squeak out the victory. In the Union Invy, Dagostino ·along with Junior Sam \Spike\ Poulis, Sophomore Bill Bahrs, Tellez, and Senior Bill Callahan came off the bench for Union to blow out Swarthmore. Then in an unbe- lievable game, consisting of two overtimes, Union defeated NYU to win the tourney. Steve Evans played an exceptional game hit- ting key free thmws in the over- time periods to have 32 points and was voted tournament MVP. Kenny Evans scored 27 points to put him over the 1 000 point mark for his four year collegiate career. Ken, aleng·with Mark Stodden, were votedto the All- Toumam~nt Team for theiroutstanding play. Adam (Schwazz) Schwartz, the Union basketball fine announcer reminds everyone that Union has two tough games this weekend against Colby and Bowdoin. Come out and hear his echoing voice in the field house on Satur- day and Sunday. Skating Dutchmen Defeat Cornell, Lose to Colgate on Road Trip Support Union Sports by Dagan La Corte Sports Editor The skating Dutchmen began the new year on the road against Cornell and Colgate. Entering the weekend the Dutchmen had a record of 4-4-1 , however in the league Union had yet to win a game posting a record of 0-4-1. The Dutchmen faced off against Comell at Lynah rink in Ithaca. Union took a 1-0 lead five minutes into the game, and they never looked back. Chris Ford compiled three goals, marking the first hat trick Union has scored since entering division I compe- tition. Jay Prentice scored his first career goal during the second pe- tiod, and Mike Gallant was ex- cellent in goal stopping 36 of 38 Cornell shots. The Dutchmen were 4 of 8 on the power play, and succeeded in killing off all five of their shorthanded situa..- tions. The win against Cornell marks the second time in three games that Union has won at Lynah rink. Unfortunately the Dutchmen were unable to keep their luck alive as they played the Red Raiders of Colgate the fol- lowing afternoon. Union came out flat in the first period allowing three goals on eleven Colgate shots. In addition the Dutchmen offense was inef- fective, tallying only four shots on the opposition. However the Dutchmen woke up in the second period. On the opening face-off of the period, Jeff Jiampetti skated the puck into the Colgate zone, passed it to Chris Albert who shot it passed Colgate goalie Jason Gates, making the score 3-1. The Dutchmen let up a shorthanded goal, before scoring two consecu- tive goals; narrowing Colgate's lead to 4-3 at the end of the sec- ond period. The Dutchmen were unable to continue their rally in the third period, and fell short by the score of 8-5. Chris Ford had two goals and an assist, giving him a total of five goals and six points in two games. Ford's outstanding effort, which fittingly fell on his birthday, earned him E.C.A.C. rookie of the week honors. This coming weekend is the most anticipated weekend of the season, as the Dutchmen play a home-and-home series against capital district rivals RPI. Union·Hockey on 89.7 WRUC

.. ~ one or tensts The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 . - . - - - Volume CXXIII, Number X . Schenectady, New York January 20, 1994 The Budget Crunch : Dining Services Cuts Back Fall Financial Losses May Lead to Privatization in the Near Future by William Rice Concordiensis Staff The Validinc system was impleniented at Union last year with the intent of giving. students more dining choices on campus, and to make more money to de- fray the rising tuition costs at the school. As a result of a campus- wide financial crisis and the fail- ure ofdining services to generate profits in the fall term, mode~t The first in a series of articles on the budget cuts in the hours of operation of dining facilities have been evi- denced in the winter. Addition- ally, 11iany of the planned changes in the accessibility of Dutch Hol- low and the Rathskellar to meal card patrons have not come to fmition because of the budget cri- SIS. Wllat is tile future of Dining Service workers ill tire event of privatization? Tiley llave taken cuts in hours to llelp UCDH to IOJf!er its costs and o11ce again tunr over a profit. (photo by J.H for TC) the amount 9f wages paid to em- ployees. The facilities are closed during time periods when very few students utilized them. Dutch Hollow was only used by an av- erage of 80 students from 11 p.m. to l a.m. making the economic feasibility of maintaining the late hours impossible. The cutting in costs, in conjunction with the steady base of income Dining Ser- vices receives from the mandatory $200 per student declining bal- ance charge, and the meal plan revenue, are expected to put Din- ing Services back in the black. In the event that food services is privatized, the corporation which would provide food to Union students would take more of an interest in turning in a profit because of the responsibilities to its sharchnldc.rs, according tl' Janet Gray. The implications in- clude lower wages and:for fewer benefits for the employees. a nH:Illl \\ hich in dudes the same food C\ cry two weeks. and the possibility of climinatii1g some of the current dining facilities to cut costs. Additionally. a private organization could raise the prices of food, giving the stu- dents fewer choices, possibly closing popular, but non-profit- able places such as The Rathskellar. and the school would have little control over the service bring provided. The biggest fear among stu- dents and workers inside the sys- tem is the loss of jobs and the fur- ther decline of the quality of food provided. A worker from within dining services stated, \lfan out- side vendor took over dining ser- vices, the quality of the food would drop even further.\ T11e worker indicated that most food vendors have a set menu estab- lished thai serves the same food every two weeks. Privatization is being consid- ered for other departments on the campus. T11e decision of Presi- dent Roger Hull, and the Board of Trustees is expected to set a precedent on whether the college will relinquish control over other departments. . Not only has the budget cnmch forced administrators to ask Din- ing Services to slash five percent. off its costs in order to make a net profit, but according to Janet Gray, Director of Dining Ser- vices, \The administration has brought in vendors (such as Marriott and Sodexho) to give us ideas on how to streamline opera- tions.\ In fact, Janet Gray met with representatives from Marriott and Sodexho this week, and they have been given the tour of the dining facilities on this campus. 1l1e outside vendors will make suggestions on how Dining Ser- vices can improve its economic efficiency, and it is likely that one or more ofthese vendors will pro- pose to privatize food services. Our sources indicate that Marriott is expected to make a ten-year proposal to take over Dining Ser- vices in the near future. Union College Dining Services could ostensibly prevent this situation from arising by making a yearly profit. Dining Services has cut their labor costs by not filling empty positions and by cutting back the amount of hours facili- ties are open, thereby decreasing Professor Sharlet Accepts ·, .: _, :~ .... _. ' ,,_ ... ::,:~:- .. ;~·;: .. :; ,.:·· -~: ... ''.; ~· ••. mutn\lf: .. ·:Stutte.ats ... ~lt:~fet7<• ........... ,.·.·,_ ··· ·\·{; · :,~~~,f~{;; . -~-. ·'. . . : ~-:_:'· . . . ·;. ·.· .· >~,\ ,'\ :,. ,~~~tt~#~~;~t:tPP.e.~i····: . >,;.···:.;· .. ~·:·<:_: ... _:~~(.'_;_,_~ .. -:.· .. : ,:·:,:·~-: :·.,..,~ .. _-,:'.' ·_, ~-<~:;; Position in Washington by Alexandra Gu.alpa Concordie11sis Staff Union College's own Robert Sharlet, professor of political sci- ence, has accepted a major posi- tion in Washington, D.C. as a co- coordinator of the Rule of Law Project ill ~he former republics of the Soviet Union. TI1e program is designed to assist twelve of the fanner republics in legal and po- litical development. While based in Washington, Sharlet will serve as Coordinator for Institution Building, which is · responsible for Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia. He is . . 0 also serving as a member of the Russian Federation Assessment Group at Washington. As coordinator of the Rule of Law Project, Sharlet is one of two people responsible for directing this entire effort. For the next two years, Sharlet will also be travel- ing throughout the former Soviet Union. He is responsible for hir- ing 150 political scientists and 150 lawyers who speak Rttssian and will help set up the new political procedures and law system. Sharlet will be designing projects for these experts and overseeing What they do in the field. • Professor Sharlet has worked with the political science depart- ment at Union College for 26 years, and specializes in Russian and post-Soviet law and politics. In the last 15 years he has shown an interest in Soviet law and the judicial system. He has testified before Congress and has pub- lished six books as well as over 100 articles. His most recent book, Soviet Constitutional Cri- sis~ was published in 1992. Sharlet was also one offour schol- ars asked to assess the draft for the US State Department before the December referendum on the Russian Constitution. Professor Sharlet will. no doubt, have many interesting sto- ries and comments to share with his students when he retums to Union College in two years. af- ter having been an important part of sllch a significant event in world history. Inside News ...... Cl ••••••••••••••••••• l-4 New Analysis ............... 5 Science ..................... 6-7 Op-aEd ........................... 8 Letters ........................... 9 Business ...................... 10 A & ~ .-. .................. 11-12 Features ..................... \ .. 1J Comics ....•................... 14 Sports .................... IS-16

..• - . ..... ~.: -., -- . ~ .... ~ ---. January 20, 1994, page 2 NEWS College Endorses Alert Mate Alarm System by Elissa Hecker Colltributillg Writer Jcn Manna was moving into her donn. While unloading some of her belongings, she did not heed her father's warnings about lock- ing the truck door. When return- ing to pick up a few items, Jen spied someone in the process of stealing her mother's purse. She began a chase and an ordeal soon ensued. Luckily, Jen. was not hurt, but no one was able to come to her assistance, as she had no alert system at the time. versities across the nation. The goal of the President's Advisory Committee on Campus Security is to enhance the safety and secu- rity of all students. According to Mantica, the de- vice that the Security team is now advocating is \designed to scare off that kind of a character,\ by drawing attention to the perpetra- tor who would, ideally, leave the different, in that they emit I 03 decibels. 'TI1e \deluxe model,\ or Paal II, comes equipped with a flashing light that is triggered when the alann is sounded. This has a blinding effect when used in a dark hallway. TI1e Quorum can also latch onto a door or win- dow, and is advertised as a \ ... lightweight, Personal Attack Alarm (which) blasts an ear- The purpose .of the Alert Mate is 'certainly not to have anyone feel that they could go anywhere, do anything, that would be a backlash to the entire program, students should follow all other common sense precautions.' scene for fear of unwanted atten- tion. piercing 103 dB. Just pull the pin, and out comes the biggest cry for help you've ever heard. And ac- cording to police, a loud noise is usually the best deterrent ;;~gainst crime.\ Once students familiarize themselves with the alarming sound that issue~ from the de- vices, Coach Ped011e hopes that they will identify the sound as one of danger. This way there will be an immediate assistance response. The devices are fully guaranteed, and should be tested once in a while to make sure the batteries are functioning properly. Neither Union CoHege nor Coach Pedone is making a profit by sell- ing the personal alarm devices. When asked, Mantica stated: \Absolutely not, they are being sold at cost factor, there is no profit at all.\ TI1is was one of the goals of the program, he said, to sell as many alanns to students at as low a price as possible. However, the low price has still not draW11 many students into pur- chasing the devices. \Unfortu- nately,.the response has been very sparse,\ said Mantica, \we have only had fourteen requests, much less than we had anticipated.\ Oneofthe reasons why so few have been sold is to whom the product has been addressed. l11e Committee had considered send- ing the letters and order fonns home to parents instead of di- rectly to the students, but their fi- nal analysis decided that the let- ters should be sent to the students alone. Jen Manna, one of the stu\ dents who bought a personal alann from Coach Pedone, feels that it is a good idea to send ii~­ fonnation to both the parents and UNION()QI;.t.EGE CAMPUSSAF,ETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLV lNCIJ)ENT SUMMARY the students. \Parents are more insistent, whereas students might say 'yes, maybe,' parents would say 'Yes l want you to have this' and stress the importance.\ When asked if she feels more comfortable owning a personal alann, Jen responded that it is a comfort, but she would still pre- fer to always walk with others. \It's really not a deterrent, not supposed to be used to protect, it just makes me feel more comfort- able, not necessarily safer, but more at ease.\ l11e cost of an Alarm-Mate is $14.50 with the tax included, and can be purchased from the Union College Safety Department. The Quorum models range in price from $30 to $39, and may be pur- chased from Suzanne Pedone. Jen Manna and other students recommend the devices with the condition that one is not to use an alarm as a safety blanket. \It doesn't mean that you'll be okay or that someone would help you immediately,\ said Manna. Malma and Mantica endorse the prod~1ct as a worthwhile invest- ment. Suzanne Pedone knows all too well the reality that the world is not safe everywhere. The coach ofUnion's Women's Softball and Soccer teams distributes infonna- tion about and sells personal alanns to those concemed about safety on campus. Pedone and Paul Mantica of the Union-Col- lege Campus Safety Department, worked in conjunction with the President's Advisory Committee on Campus Security to find the best possible personal safety al- temative. They wanted to dis- courage the use of illegal and dangerous items such as mace and pepper gas. The Committee had been researching the product Alert-Mate, a personal protector alann, for a year. This product has come to\Union via an evolv- ing process that can be traced back to the whistles all first year female students receive dming orient ati 011. The Alert-Mate functions as a personal alann system. It is in- tended to be used as measures for crime prevention. If a person is confronted with a circumstance when alone, this device may pre- vent a potentially difficult situa- tion. However, the stress placed on the consumer when purchas- ing one of these devises is that Alert-Mate and other such prod- ucts do not ensure the safety of the owner. Rather, they increase personal awareness, and they function to help the carrier feel less vulnerable to a potential at- tack. l11e purpose of the Alert- Mate is \ ... certainly not to have anyone feel that they could go anywhere. do anything, that would be a backlash to this entire program,\ , \students should foi- low all other common sense pre- cautions.\ stated Mantica. MONDAV,J,ANUARY .to,t994 TH·ROUGH SUNDAY, JANUARY l(>, l99.t The sound of the whistle was originally supposed to be used as a cry for help. However, students have since become accustomed to its sound. The whistle required the use of a victim's mouth which, in certain cases might not be ac- cessible. Also its siren is not loud enough to summon others who arc not in the immediate vicinity. These problems coupled with the fact that there have been incidents where female students were ap- proached by stranger, off-campus as well as on. ·n1e recent number of incidents and assaults on pe- rimeter joggers and others have raised qmstions about campus safety. TI1is prompted a new pro- gram modeled after one already undertaken by colleges and uni- The Alert-Mate is as small as a portable beeper, and operates in a grenade-like manner. When the rip-cord is pulled, the personal protector delivers a piercing II 0 decibel siren. It also can latch onto a door or window. and thereby act as an alann system for those living in ground-floor halls or apartments. Some of its at- tributes include its small size and weight, and when activated it at- tracts immediate attention. The Alert-Mate is charged with two AAA batteries. Coach Pedone distributes an- other brand of portable alann sys- tems made by the Quorum com- pany. These models are slightly .. Winter Olympics Rush Event Friday, Jan 21, 7 pm Pool, Fooz, Sega and Pong Prizes to be awarded to winners!! Door Prize: Sega Genesis System Open to all ' I.' DATEffiME LOCATION MONDAY. JANUARY ur, 199-J: l;Jo PM · · · · · D;l\'idson .J.:J7PM 5:02PM .. 5:02PM 10:41 PM 1()57PM Soth1l Sdcn:cc Bldg. Memorial Chapel McKean House Edwards Fox TUESDAY, JANUARY U, 1994.: I LO(> AM Nott Street 12:00.PM . .t.Ol PM McKean House Butterfield WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 12, 199:t: 12 ill AM . Old Chapel I Ofl AM WcstCollcgc 9:3RAM Becker Lot !2:00PM Adniinistrntion Lot li:Oi!PM . pmking. S&E Basement THURSDAY. JANUARY 13, 1994: 2:20AM ' · ·· Alb...:iindcrLanc :uopft1· pafking.Lot·ME Lab t l>fSAM .9:2(lPM 9:20PM . H:liPM S&EL:ll'l College Center AI cx;mdcr t.anc Sigilia Pili Lot FRU)AV, JANUARY 14, 199.t: 8:i&AM BcckcrLol Fm.: House u :,;-;· ~ .. 'A< ! \ .. ~(- ... .· ·: ·._,. 'Oo •. ' ~ t . . .· ·. _.- INCIDENT VAN DA USM/LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Rao1\i';n1~kc detector chimagcd. · · · VANDALISM: Floodingcatl$Cd'bY pluggcdplutnhing fi·xturc. · · · THE,FT: Picceofmuslcal instrument stolen. . FIRE: Minohircase t'ir~no h\iury ordmnilgc .. \ ' FlRE ALARM~··C;tuscdby·-aCtivation:.ofpuli,bbX,· !:.. FIREl ALARIYk. CiluS~d.!)y tampering with S!nokc dct~X:Inr·Lif c Safety Viol:i1ioil Filed.· MOTOR V£1UCLE ACCIDENT: Vehicle struck ;md damaged f<:ndng-no if\jury. · THE:FT: Kitc)lc)l;.fir.c·cxilnguishcr·stolcrl, UNAUTHORI~;~Q:}C:CESS: faculty office entered and computer used withoitl autholit.alion . ', :•' SAFETY HAZA.RO: Gas odor reponed-checked unconfinncd - VAN DALISMJLlFE SAFETYVIOLA THJN: Smoke detector ~illlll18Pd'Cllusingfirc ;1l;1nn. r ARKlNG VJOLATlON: PcrsistcntYiolmor-car IO\\Cd' toildl)ct Charges Pilei!. · · PARKING VIOLATIONS: Twovchiclcs towed for improper ·' FnU: ALARM:' C:mscd by riullfi•nclioning smokc'dclcdor• tcplaccd: · · 'VAND'ALISl\·t:;i3Jlrticr~baincyc:bOitbmkCI\. ···. . . P.RQPJJ;RTYl)A.M4,G~: C<lrJ;\<I!llilg!idl:lysmiw.fltllhlMtfo(. ···' mor:·· ..... •.• . . .•• , ..... . . ·'·, .. .. ' . •. , . .,, . . ' .. ··'·' '·'' , .. SAF~TV 8AZ'ARD6' vthiln!l'i>tbbiemsi'Ci\Otltif' .. ·· ····· · · ' ··· ·' SAFETY HAPA'Rnl Atr:iumcg)as~b~oksro,PM Jullin,gsl)oW .. ··· MOTOR V£lUCLEA.CCIDENJ: Hit andiunooearstruck Bm1ictchliin\natlaui;;gcilitieM(Je.;bl1ltirt'&t~Rbil: ·. · · · '• · •,•,c• PROPERTY,PAMAQE: 'J\\'et\'chiclcsdamr(gM•bvsMiV ·· · ·.· ·· ··, · .. · fallin~of(ofSigm:\,PI\i.rqQ[ ..... , • ;< , , , , .... , . \ .. PROi'ERT'V'PAMA:OE~ Vehictiid.'lmit!tetlby si)Otl'failiilgilff'' •. ufSoum Collcil~·Roof>r ·· .· . , : : .. · :, ' . \ : ,, · •. :·, '.'.\ Lll<'lt SAFETY\\IOLA Tl()Nt Tan'lpcrypg wl!h oootn slliok¢' dctcctor-dctccloi' dllilliigcd. · · · · SAFETY aA-~~pt,0111!1&esthrQ,\)'OW!Hl,i~dUiitig'h<!G!$1;1}.\·•.· .. •. ~n:ncrf;Q,9d.l.iC.f'~il~#~, · ·· · .:r,y, · · · , '<,:, .. :::: .. ··. . ..... ·~ -i . ~- :>:~~~\.::::: .':?·-- ;~ ,:_,;·:~,-~.;::,y~~;.-:::::i>\':i:~;f:~~/-~:::::::: ·,.. .. .

NEWS January 20, 1994, page 3 Chet's Remodeled by Lee Popper Contributing Writer are still many more in the de- signing stage. Chet's new nights will be Wednesday and Thursday from WRUC Offers Broadcasts to Long Distance Listeners The Chet's Committee spent much oflast term making plans for improvements for Chefs. Thanks to financial support from Student Forum and assis- tance from the administration, many of these changes were implemented over our break. The most important and vis- ible change is the construction of a new pennanent bar. The Chet's Committee has rolled away the old bar and replaced i.t with a beautiful wooden sta- tionary one. A lot of time and effort was spent designing these features and much praise is due to Campus Planning Commit- .· tee for their assistance. n stlp- port of the new changes, the Chet's Committee felt that the campus pub should finally have a sign which states its own name. A new 11S!On sign will replace the old Cabaret sign and 8 pm-1 am. Wings, pitchers, mixed drinks, beer, soda, and popcorn will be available. The pub will also provide Happy Hour (TGIF) on the second Fri- day of each month. The first of , these will be this Friday, Janu- ary 14th, from 4 p!'n-9 pm. TGIF provides free food and a great opportunity for professors and students to interact. 0 0 · a wooden sign will be placed at the entrance. A new projection TV, two TV monitors, new Many groups have sponsored events at Chefs over the past few tenns. The pub has an ex- citing schedule being set up. Guests appearing at Chefs will include the Dutch Pipers, Gar- net Minstrels, Comedians, Stu- dent and Off Campus Bands, Cross- Talks, TGIF, Town Meetings, and the return of \STUDS.\ If you woU'ld like to perform at Chet's or if your club, fraternity, sorority, or any individual would like to spon- sor an event at Chet's, please contact Deb Murray at 3 70- 0135 or Steve Lapinsky at 388- 5602. The Chet's Committee hopes that all students, profes- sors, and the administration will come and enjoy th.e new Chet' s. ~ WRUC sportscasters Craig Losben, Eric Wei11berger, and Sean Gill (from left to right). . speakers, and wooden chairs are planned as future additions. Despite the new elements that have already been added, there Q Caroline says, ''Write for News'' - call 5851 and WRUC is teaming up with TRZ Sports Company to provide the Union College family at large with a new service. The campus radio station is joining with the national telecommunications compm;~.-y ·in order to make the broadcasts of the College's spm1s ganies accessible to those outside ask for News Editor Union Breaks Co-ed Trend Continued From Page I rience in a single sex residence hall and preferred a coed hall unless they lived in Greek hous- ing. Contrary to the women's re- sponse, most men who either are or did live in single sex residence halls applied for coed housing. Sophomore Eric Seplowitz, a South v~teran, felt he did not get to know many members of his class through s.ingle sex dorm life. \There were a lot of sopho- mores on my floor and I thought a coed donn would be a more diversified experie11ce.'' Pres- ently liviti.g in South, Steve Kokinos originally wanted coed housing. After living on fourth floor South for awhiie, he enjoys the freedom of having a single sex residence hall where \we can be as loud as we want . \ Steve and a classmate Seth Paine both agree single sex donn life is not a bad experience but in the fu- ture they would probably prefer coed housing. As a whole Union seems to be beating the heat with a primarily positive outlook at single sex liv- ing. Why this is such a rare phe- nomena nationally, remains a mystery. As a survivor of both single sex and coed residence halls, I hope Union keeps its many options of coed and single sex living for both incoming freshman and upperclassman. SOUTH CO~GE · (Pizoto by Josltua W. Haines!TC) Jay Star, Dave Burstein, Cllad Tltompson (from left to rigllt) were pla~ed in single-sex llousing. ofthestation'ssignalrange. TRZ Joshua Leif, WRUC's Station Sports Company, based in Akron, Manager, said, \I would eventu- Ohio, will provide a phone num- ally like to see basketball, both ber for Alumni, parents of play- men's and women's be available. ers, students on tenn abroad or It would be great for parents in any Union fan, to connect them Colorado to be able to listen to to WRUC's broadcast. their daughter's basketball Those outside WRUC's signal .game.\ When this service is ex- range will be able to listen to the panded not only will people from sports broadcasts by dialing 800- across the country be able to lis- 846-4700. TI1e call will be for- ten to Dutchmen games, but also warded to Ohio, where the caller important speakers as well. For can select voice mail, score up- example, if the President of the dates or to hear the Union game United States came to speak at broadcasted live. Once the selec- graduation, people could call tion is made a Visa or Master TRZ and listen to WRUC's Card is needed to pay for the call. broadcast of commencement. To listen to a three hour game will WRUC will join 200 other col- cost 36 dollars. The charge be- lege radio stations from around gins at 50 cents a minute. Fortu- the country in providing this spe- nately, the longer a Union fan lis- cia! service. Among those who tens, the smaller the rate per already broadcast through this minute becomes. The rates can system include RPI, Cornell and get as low as 20 cents a minute. Harvard. TI1e president of TRZ The service will not only make Sports, Tom Zawistowski, is ex- it easier for Dutchmen fans to cited to work with Union. \We keep up with their favorite team, are extremely proud to be affili- but it will help WRUC keep its ated with Union and to provide program at the level of excellence our service to its fans for the first the college community has come time,\ says Zawinstowski. \Our to expect. l11e station will receive goal is to provide fans with an 20 percent of the profits made affordable means of hearing their from each phone call. l11is will favorite teams games live from help supplement the station's anywhere in the world. By using budget after the severe budget a speaker phone, fans in distant cuts that have been made cam- cities can get together and listen pus wide. to the game just like hearing it on At the present time only foot- local radio. Now f.1ns never have ball and hockey games will be to miss a minute of the action.\ available from this service. Sigma Phi Society Semi-formal Dinners Thursdays at 7 p.m.

January 20, 1994, page 4 NEWS Elections for Junior Class Representative to be Held Friday Elissa Hecker My name is Elissa D. Hecker, and I am running for the position of Junior Class Representative. Many of you met me during ex- tracurricular activities, during classes, and upon signing my pe- tition. I would like to represent the Juniors on the Student Forum, and feel that I am extremely quali- fied for this position. During my three years at Union, I have been involved with a number of activi- ties campus-wide, and among those I have held numerous lead- ership positions. I am a Po1itical Science major who has not only taken classes in the Social Sci- the Crosstalk committee. It all ences, but in the Humanities and the Natural Sciencesas well. Last spring, I was one of two sopho- moves selected to join the Union tenn iri Washington D.C. where I worked on Capitol Hill. In Wash- ington, I worked for the office of the House Foreign Affairs Com- mittee. As yourrepresentative, I intend to devote my efforts into securing the most positive ben- efits for our class, and would work to make sure that my vote represented the best interests of the Juniors. Thor Benander There is a time and a place for just about everything, and having run for office before, I knew that people want to know what a can- didate has accomplished in order to determine what he'll be ca- pable of. I have run the Film Committee, The Video Store, The Student Programming Board and Inner View. I have written for Concordiensis, acted for the Arts Department, directed for Moun- tebanks, and been a member of means very little in my opinion. What does mean something is that people don't care about this place. I've had my share of bad vibes towards Union, but the dif- ference is that rm· trying to do something about it. There have been so many times where I was annoyed at the school, and I didn't know where to go. So if this works out, you can go to me. I'm not going to be your typical, baby-kissing, hand-shaking poli- tician. I'm not going to make promises, because too many stu- dent representatives have made promises that they didn't have any intention of keeping. H:on- estly, this race isn't live or die for me. I have no desire to rub el- bows with people who can get me places. I have tio great need to sit through hours of Student Fo- rum meetings. But I da want to get a voice in a place that mat- ters, and I do want to act like a student, not like an administrator. Don't be satisfied with people who are only in it for·themselves. Satisfy yourself buy electing someone for you. \ Student Forum Spotlight By Rawson Thurber- Freshman Class President This past week the Student Forum discussed a vari- . ety of issues. The most pertinent was the cutting of. service hours by Dutch Hollow, Upper Class Dining, and West College. The members of the Student Forum-·. have been hearing numerous complaints from the stu- . dent body concerning these cuts. The Forum is actively looking into these problems, and hopes to have anal- ternate method for cutting expenses. The Student Forum also approved a Tenn Abroad to Kenya starting next Fait Sociology and Anthropology will be split into two separate departments in the future. In addition to this, · the freshman preceptorial program is under review. Nate Coffin is now a member of the Student Affairs Committee. The SAC is also discussing how they are · going to evaluate fraternities and special interest hou~~ . mg. There will be a CrossTalk event upcoming. The sub- ject for the debate is tentatively set as: \How student and faculty relationships have changed.'' . · The Student Forum invites the student body to at- tend a town meeting which will be held in Chei~s·dur­ . ing the fourth week qf the tenn. Students with ideas, questions, or complaints are welcome to come and air their grievances to their elected representatives. Campus Trends Across the United States -conegePressse~ice Stutlent$ ... Ct.J!4l~\B1:h:te:~h College. Applications·.· ... \ MIAMI._ Two Florida ·In .. temational Univetsity ·students combined their talertts f() ·create a speedi~r a4missions pr~c¢ss thr~ug1icomp~tef.;~f>!i~~(19~s. ~tM:,,\;~~ ·· ate a computer pr~~ to ~x .. · p~tt¢the~d.ll!~$sl~ · · · · · ~i:;~;::zk:ti~tt·~· to· other sch.otits:a<i'r<ls$ · tl()tl~· . . The coJ;riptiterized . • ... . ti.oti for adlliissi(}tt itie an the brochure~ the un1tversrtv saves almost $1 as\' ... intera<ctive present~~iiifr tltar ·: · · ===:~ '\-\''''\\\''' ~'It'% Uf(~·· ··::t• -v· vaiJt._t~rroltf!b, brochure i•\ ·u·, WJti>caJt¢1ffai!~ai~Ji · ' '· ~·· The fi··~ ~¢ .. tilinute ;'Pir~seJnta .. \ tlon, ·\v'Itic'h .·;nf~r1tl1gttt:tf ~<1!-t~P·\\··:· un·iv~$ity\~f . and sportS< ' . · signed to university's'tr'1 ~¢<lr teni:ll~it~lea•vy brochures. .· • .rnissions.uiice 1 ereat'¢d,~e pro,. • 'It real~X; is· a ma~ket~t,tg t \.·~.··al}lr·m·:m···. afte.·····n·.·. er.· .• ~.· .• A.• .. ~ ...... ·~.;.·.· ....... '.•• ... ••,·.•.·njs.·.· ... ·.s ..•. ut.:~.···\·'~. : ... •.·.·.~.~.e ..... ·.·~ ... ~ •. P .. ·.:.ar,;···· .. toot lt;s: a 'whole multimedia 'II,.? :Q>'\''\·~ U.h:n•UY,..>< Q' presentation, j~ Portocarrero. . $itnilatlWogramt{;J help:stu~n~.: said. .. . . . ... :> ; \ · ap,ply ~h~ngton 1he presentaft<m .is e4rt~ · · Urtiv. · o~l);(;, eluded. with an application for She asked Pottoi;arrerc to help admission thatstudents can fill: ,make th~ a4mis.sfon process out ())1 coritput~r .. •'then th~ ore~ :easiJ.tr .·.·.~. > ';t . . .· . turn the co:trrputer diskette by Porto¢aitetoand'Ftordid'u~t mail. charge the .university for the Disks are ch¢aper th}UJ bto,. prqgrllitl.; .'but they ate market>< chures. so the new process win' ing' ide llther schoals at an in .. save money for the university. troductory price of $5,000. So A disk costs about 30 cents, far. ab,ont .she sch9M's .liave while brochures itre $1.50. And~ ' snowu.aninter~stinpur¢l1asing because the disk is lighter than the ptogtarn; Portocarrero said. · Students Unclear About What's Dishonest · - • • • · -· ' '· - ' 'lo . , CAMBRIDGE, Mass. Stu- dents admit to cheating at the Massachusetts Institute of Tech- nology, but they say there's too many gray areas about what is considered academic dishonesty, . a survey said. Students said blatant dishon- esty such as cheating on an exam is wrong, but they hadJDixed opinions about collaborating and sharing homework assignment answers. In fact, 56 percent ofthe students surveyed said they were confused about what constitutes academic dishonesty. The survey, conducted bythe MIT Colloquium Committee; found that almost 45 percent said that copying homework that would not be graded was not con- sidered cheating. Another 45 per~ cent said it was trivial and 10 per- cent labeled it as serious cheat- ing. Students were divided about whether it was dishonest to get help from a campus computer consultant for writing the content of a computer program for class. Almost 80 percent of the stu- dcmt~ admitted. that they had cheated ·at some point in their college years by either collabo- rating on homework or copying someone eise's homework as- signment.· Almost 70 percent said they collaborated on homework at least once, 45 percent admitted that they misrepresented or fudged data in a laboratory report or research paper, and almost 60 percent admitted to copying an- other student's homework as- signment that was to be graded. According to Norma McGaver, a ,co-author of the study, the surprise was not that students cheat, but which students are cheating since there is a per- ception that some students get good grades through dishonest means. \Some people think it's the best and brightest students who cheat, but that's not the case. It's the students with academic diffi- culties who cheat,'' she said. The study also found that the students with lower grade point averages are less likely to ask for assistance and may fall into a pat• tern of che.ating as a way to get by. Mc~vern said sophemores, not first-year students, were more likely to cheat. \There seems to be more stress because that's the year they pick their major,\ she said. · The survey was commis- sioned after a cheating scandal occurred on the campus in 1990. The scandal occurred when 79 of 250 students taking ~trod}lction to Computers and Engineering Problem Solving were found to have cheated on a homework as- signment. Students defended themselves by saying that cheat- ing in one form or another was t:ainpant across the campus. Many of the students said they did not think they had done any- thing wro~g. ' · · · CLA.SSIFIEDS Babysitter wanted for Toddler. Monday and Friday required. A vg 10 hrs/wk. Car needed.· Ask for Pamela. 374-1424 . . * * Spring Bre.ak· * * Cancun, Bahamas. J am~ica, Florida and Padre! 110% Low~st Price Guarantee! . Organize 15 friends and youJ;.trjp is :free! (80Q),J28-SAVE _ Atttention Marketting and Business Students JOIN THE GIANT! 22nd Century Ptoducts, fantastic· aids, financially sound company. Ground Floor opportunity c·al1459-6115 Lost Gold Pin! With woman's face on it. If found please return to Student Activites Retail Auditor Position Part Time, 17 hours/wk, $7-$10/ hr. Audit in Albany Area. No Experience required, automobile r.equired. Call collect at (800) 563-2512

NEWS ANALYSIS January 20, 1994, page 5 A Last Glimpse of 19.93 : A Year· that Ended with a Bang by Veronica Rogers News Analysis Editor The beginning of the term wouldn't be complete without a compilation article of past events by me. 1993 ended With quite a variety ofhappenings in the news. The buzz phrase for the end of '93 became gun control, while an- other kind of control was being sought after, control ofRussia by Vladimir Zhirnovsky, a man compared to the likes of a Nazi. Celebrity Michael Jackson be- came entangled in a web of sations made by everyday citi- zens, while average people like the Babbitts became celebrities just by the use of some cutlery. Genetic engineering became the fascination and fear of millions of people as the idea of human clon- ing became more of a possibility than a science fiction plot. Never a dull moment as scientists search for ways to create life while the lives of thousands are being lost to crime. The gun issue seems to have become a fad of sorts. Gun homi .. cides have not increased cata- strophically over the past year, however, peQple started becom- ing fearful once gun violence migrated from urban areas to places wh,ere most people once fe'lt unthreatened,. for example, the subway. The Long Island train murders that happened in Decem- ber were a scary reminder ef today's outstanding message that no on:e is tJ1Uly protected. The helplessness the victims must havefelt While sitting on the mov- ing train, unable to run away from a man who was angry with his life, is so incomprehensible. This kind of random violence then began to explode, a Chuck e' Cheese worker shot his man- ager and co-workers one night after work because he was frus- trated with }lis life. A Wal-Mart employee shot people for practi- cally the same reason. This trend seemed unstoppable due to its unpredictableness. We've heard about Postal Workers or McDonald's patrons going on rampages in the past, but the be- fore mentioned incidents all seemed to happen within a short period of time, almost as if each perpetrator were following the example of the crime before him. Do these people's frustration jus- tify their killings?How can they? The unpredictableness of ran- dom murders took on another fonn, one that especially took its toll at the end of '93. The es- tranged boyfriend of a woman took out his frustration on the 0 Brave New World A Call for Debate on Reproductive Technology by Doug Bartell Concordiensis Staff \0 brave new world that has such people in it!\ exclaimed an enlightened Miranda upon her first encounter with a perfectly attractive male in Shakespeare's The Tempest. Had she been liv- ing in our time she might soon have no one else in her sight but perfect people as the brave new world of genetically engineered babies fonns. in the cold, isolated soil of modem science. The moral and ethical issues' that are · brought tti· th~ surfa~e by the ad- vances of in-vitro fertiliza:tion and artificial ln's~mination are diverse and need to be addressed before science fakes us too far into the I• 21st century. · I shall1iot claim any particu- lar expertise in the field of genet- ics but can claim only a deep in- tere.\linlhe topic. The things that are happening, andhappening so fast, are truly incredible, and to the laymen philosopher present some truly zmgra.\pable concepts. lf there is any motive behind this . .'>ynopsis, it is only to help initiate conversation and debate. If I of- fend any e;xperts with my naivete 1 atll troly apologetic. Fact. Traditional methods of re- production involve a man and a wife engaging in intercourse. If a spenn penetrates an egg, a zy- gote is formed and pr.egnancy begins. Fact. A 59-year-old English woman gave birth to twins using donated eggs which were placed in her uterus. Issue. Where does science over- step the limits of morality? The woman had reached menopause and wanted to have children. The donated eggs allowed her to do that. Is it moral to create a hu- man being with the help of sci- ence? Can 59 year old woman withstand childbirth and the rig- ors of parenting as well as a states there are no federal guide- younger person? lines limiting the nearly 300 as- Fact. Some woman simply can- sisted fertility clinics in the U.S. not have a baby on their own. Issue. Who gets to play God? Do Issue. What if the person in- scientists have the right to play valved is younger and she isn't God and influence the process of capable ofhaving her own child. fertilization? Do governments What if she and her husband de- have the right to play God by im- cide they want a family but can posing laws on how one can con- only do so by using donated eggs. ceive a baby? Does science stiU overstep its Fact. Scottish researchers .have bounds in allowing her to receive taken the ovaries from an aborted the eggs? ------------ fetal mouse Would adop- Fact: A 59-year-old English and placed tion be a viable Woman gave birth to twins them in the alternative? using donated eggs, which body of a liv- Fact. Some . ing mouse. couples decide ~w,...,,e_r_e_p..,.l_a_c_e_d_i .... n __ h_e_r~u_t __ e_ru_s_,.._ The living . to.use a ~urrogate mothei to have mouse was able to have children their baby. with the ovaries. lYsue. Whose baby is it? Several Issue. As Newsweek put it resent court cases have brought \There was talk that the process that issue to the forefront. might someday be duplicated in Fact. Some men are sterile. humans, raising the freakish pros- Fact. Sperm banks allow women pect of creating babies whose ge- to receive fertile sperm. netic mothers had never been L\·sue. The information included born.\ in deciding which spetm donor to Issue. Are we going to allow use has the donor identified by ourselves to become a Jurassic height, eye-color, ancestry and Park of Human Beings? even sometimes IQratings. Roll Aldous Huxly took a part of the dice and try your luck to de- Miranda's sentiment and titled his velop the most perfect baby pos- novel about the future \A Brave sible. A land of perfect babies, New World\. In this novel there enough to make even Darwin is a process called roll-over. Has anyone in science Bokanofistication. In this proc.ess heard of the Master Race? babies are mass produced in fac- Fact. In Italy, a black woman tories and family life does not whose husband is white, had a exist as everyone is raised in has- white woman's eggs placed in- pi tal like conditions. Huxly wrote side of her to ensure that she had this book in the fifties but the fu- a white baby because she and her ture that he is talking about is husband wanted to give the child perhaps not too far away. the best possible future. Where is the leading edge of Issue. Again, the idea of the per- reproductive technology taking feet baby and the perfect race of us? I do not know. I do know humanity. Why should science that a resolution or at least a de- provide us with a perfect society bate on its moral implications is when God himself has given us necessary. My money is on the flaws? fact that 80 percent ofthe people Fact. Governments around the at this school are as in the dark as world have begun to pass legisla- myself but would love to know tion on limiting certain reproduc- more. tive technologies. In the United whole family by sending mail- bombs to members ofher family. Many of her relatives were killed instantly as all the package bombs were opened within 90 minutes of each oth!!r. A few members were spared as the trend was no- ticed quickly and other members wer:e warned. How do people get so angry that they could live with the con- sequences ofkiUing a whole fam- ily, or even one person? There has to be something fundamentally wrong with a person who can find no other solution to their prob- lems but to shoot or blow-up an innocent person, or a co-worker. How do we heal from such trag- edies? Society's answer seems to be, stop the violence before it hap- pens. People always talk about stopping urban violence, hut now they are really taking notice. Now that violent crimes have touched a wider spectrum of people, ac- tion is finally being taken. This is. a bad reflection of our society's priorities. The Brady Bill was finally passed after years in legislation which now requires there to be a waiting period between the re- quest for a gun and the actual ac- quisition of the gun, so proper officials can look at the back- ground of the purchaser. The in- discriminate distribution of guns had been a big contributor to our gun problem, but the Brady Bill will not eliminate this placement of guns into the hands of the wrong people. Guns acquired iJ- legaliy will continue just as drugs are. What I find so frustrating about this issue is how stubborn the mentality of many citizens is and how dangerous the National Rifle Association's powerful voice is to the whole country. American's state that they lose their rights if they cannot carry firearms to pro- tect themselves. Our society has taught people to fear everyone and consequently the feeling of needing to protect themselves has grown so much that people are now saying that if they were in a restaurant and a random killer came in they would rather be armed than unarmed. It's almost as if guns were becoming like an American Express card ad, \don't leave home without it\. How did we get so twisted? Keeping with the idea of sense- lessness, all that needs to be said is Michael Jackson. Someone, who is probably just trying to steal all his money, accused the singer of molesting his 13 year old boy. Once these accusation hit the media, the singer's career was in shambles. His life was turned in- side out and it still isn't over. Ev- eryone has dissected evezy part of him, both physically, by conduct- ing a warranted search of his body, to picking apart his per- sonal life to find any signs of wrong doings. People at first were very skeptical of the accusations, because most figured that it was for money. Jackson had many supporters, and it seems like the public would extinguish the image portrayed by the accusers and the media. Then it got ugly as his estranged sister LaToya said that accusations were right, and the quirky things about Jackson's life that used to amuse people, such as the exist- ence ofNeverland Valley Ranch, began to tum against him. It seemed as though people were almost reaching for reasons to make these accusations true. The media and public opinion combined are so powerful. It is amazing how we can destroy such a prosperous_ career just because we like reading slanderous things · in People magazine, which pub- lishes such things because it need to make money. Our society is caught up. in the race for the larg- est savings account, and it often doesn't matter who we step on to get there. Is anyone satisfied with the simple life anymore? We are ali going to have ulcers by the age of30. How about enjoying a day on a river fishing, or a day in the mountains hiking up the highest peak? There, there are no guns, no money, and all you can see from the highest point is how vast our world is and how simple things can be. Psi U Wings and Football Rush Function January 23rd 3:30p.m. Everyone Welcome

January 20, 1994, page 6 SCIENCE & HEALTH Winter Health Care For Your Skin by Pamela Lin Concordiensis Staff Taking good care of your skin is important, not merely for aes- thetic reasons, but for health rea- sons as well. Winter weather is cruel to our skin because we con- stantly expose ~ur skin to a bat- tery ofharsh conditions. Dry skin is often the inevitable result of this battery, leading to irritation, rashes, and cracked skin. Dry skin, medically Asteatosis or Xerosis, is a skin condition which afflicts people of all ages. Loss of the skin's natural moisture is one of the major causes of dry skin. Because indoor heating in the winter has a tendency to be low in humidity, another common loss of skin moisture is from the dry heat. Another main source for loss of skin moisture is from ex- cessive bathing, harsh soap and detergents. Anti -bacterial soaps that are advertised for daily use are often too harsh for most people's daily needs. Milder soaps and soap substitutes serve the necessary purpose without resulting in a loss of moisture. Schenectady derma- tologist Dr. Bernard McEvoy sug- gests that unless intense physical activity requires otherwise, milder soaps .such as N eutrogena, Cetaphil and Oilatum should be used for daily washing. Highly advertised soaps such as Safe- guard and Dial may be dry out the skin and be unnecessary for daily use. These soaps should also have reduced contact with dry skin. ainong the most popular lotions on the market, but may not be the most effective. Urea containing lotions are better lotions for skin lubrication; one urea molecule traps three molecules of water. Urea tends to intimidate many people, but its therapeutic uses have been known since the an,. cient Egyptians used infant urine derivatives for skin care. Dr. McEvoy mentioned that though infants may have diaper rash, their contact with urine, and thus urea, may be responsible for their \baby butt\ soft skjn. Skin Products Recommended by local dermatologists (phote by Josh Haines/TC) The last option for retaining skin moisture is to improve the amount of moisture in the envi·· ronment around you. Aside from taking a trip to warm and SUJ)ny climes, humidifying the environ- ment is the best way to reduce the amount of skin moisture lost. Putting a pan of water on your radiator, or purchasing a humidi- fiermight be one ofthe best ways to prevent dry skin in the long run. Daily maintenance and care can prevent the need for specific dry skin treatment. Using a washcloth and diluting the soap by sudsing is recom- mended in any areas where you know your skin is dry. Excessive bathing is also a po- tential threat to skin. The fre- quency of showers and baths should be decided on a need ba- sis rather than the expectation of taking one daily. A person who does not exert himself may not need to shower everyday. In fact, unwarranted daily showering will only deplete the body of essen- tial skin moisture. If a person needs to shower fre- quently precautions can be taken to retain as much moisture as pos- sible. Lubrication with lotion and bath oils help to keep moisture in the skin. When using bath oil in the nib no soap is needed; soak- ing for 10-20 minutes in the oil- water will get you clean. A bath oil may also be applied directly to the skin after a shower. For best results, first towel off and then apply a small amount ofbath oil directly to the skin. The variety of lotions and lu- bricants available are often daunt- ing for the person who does not understand chemical jargon. Commonly used body lubricants are mineral oil, petroleum (Vaseline), and even several cookicg and vegetable oils. Hy- drogenated oils are effective and safe but may result in art unpleas- ant odor. Mineral oils and vaseline are preferred for this rea- son. Lubricants and body lotions should be applied while the skin is still moist in order to retain as much moisture as possible'. Lotions are used for more lo- calized use. It is hard to suggest one good lotion for everyone as each individual has special needs and preferences. Some people find certain lotions more greasy and heavy than others, while oth- ers may have to use hypo-aller- genic products. Dr. McEVoy warns that the most popular lo- Chapping and irritation are the most common symptoms of dcy skin and are easily remedied with lotions. Without proper care however., dry skin can lead to ec- zema and require a regimen of cortisone treatments. Special thanks to Dr.• Bernard McEvoy for the infonnation and skin care tips. For other questions regarding skin care, Dr. McEvoy is located at 650 Franklin Street tions are not always the best. AI- and his office number is 374- pha hydroxy acid lotions are 7222. GIVMY Syndrome Replaces NIMBY Syndrome by Eric Habib Environmental Editor There is a common assumption by the public that the not-in-my- backyard (NIMBY) syndrome is an ironclad law of political behav- ior when it comes to getting rid of solid waste. Very often, com- munities with decreasing landfill space seek to export their waste to other areas that have landfill space available. Most communi- ties, though, are unhappy to re- ceive garbage from outside their borders; NIMBYism. In fact, pro- spective receiving states often fight legal battles to prevent the extra waste from entering. Garbage on Long Island, how- ever, has become as valuable as gold. New York State, a few years ago, decided to close landfills on Long Island to protect the under- ground drinking water supply. Several towns on Long Island, as an alternative to landfilling, have invested hundreds of millions of dollars in building incineration facilities to bum their trash. In- cinerators are very expensive be- cause they need to be fed garbage constantly at specific capacities to operate efficiently; otherwise pol- lution from the burning process escapes. In addition, there are scrubbers required by law to keep almost all pollutants from escap- ing into the air outside. The cost of building these in- cinerators was passed on to haul- ers in the form of high incinera- tion fees, whereas in the past, many towns charged haulers al- most nothing to dump at open landfills. It is ironic that just at the same time when towns on Long Island have increased their gar- bage fees to help pay off multi- million-dollar incinerators, an abundance of out-of-state landfill space has lured haulers off Long Island where they can save mil- lions by dumping trash instead of having it burned. Thus town offi- cials are conceJI'ted that a strong I incentive exists for haulers to seek out these other, less expensive fa- cilities. Garbage haulers are business- men; they go to where they get the chea.Pest price. One town's incineration fee will, inevitably, be lower than that of another's. Basic economic principles affirm that haulers will therefore be in- clined to evade the more expen- sive facility in an effort to do busi- ness with the less expensive one; isn't that what America is all about? However, a town which has gone out on a financial limb to build a new incinerator may not attract haulers if its incineration fee reflects the multimillion dol- lar investment it has made. To that end some towns have instituted flow-control laws which channel trash to their own facilities. Towns hope that by applying this flow-control law they will recover their large investments and maybe profit. In fact, town officials have hired police officers to enforce these regulations. It is mindboggling when you think about it, that so-called \Garbage Cops\ actually investigate the trash of each hauler, learn who transports waste illegally, and crack down on them. Recently, several garbage haul- 1/~ ers filed suit claiming that laws requiring them to bring their gar- bage to a particular disposal site are a violation of the United States Constitution's commerce clause. They complain that flow-control laws can add up to 30 percent to the garbage bills they would pay if they disposed of it on the free market. A decision will require the court to balance the issue of laissez faire economics with a town ··s right to recover some of the costs it had anticipated for a particular facility. The town ofislip is the one that had the garbage barge float along the coast for 55 days a few years ago. Everyone told Islip that they did not w~t its trash at all and to take it out-of-state. It is surpris- ing that officials, who once pushed garbage from one town to another, ate now hiring \garbage cops\ to make sure trash is kept within town boundaries. Call it the GIVMY syndrome. Environmental Update by Juliet A. Clos Contributing Writer Each and every time one flushes the toilet, washes dishes, or takes a shower he/she is con- . tributing to one oftoday's most serious environmental prob- lems: the degradation of our pre- cious water resources. As most people already know, waste water travels from houses and offices to POTW' s (or sewage treatment plants) where it is treated and supposed to be detoxified. But recent studies have proven that this treatment is not sufficient. Currently, our waterways are suffering from a humanly in- duced condition called hypoxia, a state of extremely low dis- solved oxygen in water. Hy- poxia is caused by concentrated organic waste emissions. An. overload of nitrogen, which is carried in all organic human waste, acts like fertilizer that is put on gardens. Nitrogen ap- peals to plant life causing it to go out of control until, in its de- cay, it utilizes a large portion of the available dissolved oxygen. Without sufficient dissolved oxygen, marine life will suffo- cate or flee and, as a result, gen- erate areas of \dead\ water. Most of today's existing POTW s were constructed during the 1950s. These plants employ only two levels of detoxification, while a tertiary stage of treat- ment is necessary to remove Ni- . trogen from water. The addition of a tertiary stage of treatment is very expensive because it would require these existing plants to be twice their size to accommo- date both the unanticipated population g~owth in the past 40 years and the enhanced treat- ment facilities. Recent legisla- tion now ·addresses the problem of funding the necessary upgrad- ing project. This new legislation will most likely be introduced to the public when the Clean Wa- ter Act is revised.

January 20, 1994, page 6 SCIENCE & HEALTH 'mq.e 'C1lnnr.nr.bi.ensis Winter Health Care For Your Skin by Pamela Lin Concordiensis Staff Taking good care of your skin is important, not merely for aes- thetic reasons, but for health rea- soHs as well. Winter weather is cmel to our skin because we con- stantly expose our skin to a bat- tery of harsh conditions. Dry skin is often the inevitabl~ result of this battery, leading to irritation, rashes, and cracked skin. Dry skin, medically Asteatosis or Xerosis, is a skin condition which afflicts people of all ages. Loss of the skin's natural moisture is one of the major causes of dry skin. Because indoor heating in the winter has a tendency to be low in humidity, another common loss of skin moisture is from the dry heat. Another main source for loss of skin moisture is from ex- cessive bathing, harsh soap and detergents. Anti-bacterial soaps that are advertised for daily use are often too harsh for most people's daily needs. Milder soaps and soap substitutes serve the necessary purpose without resulting in a loss of moisture. Schenectady derma- tologist Dr. Bernard McEvoy sug- gests that unless intense physical activity requires otherwise, milder soaps such as Neutrogena, Cetaphil and Oilatum should be used for daily w.ashing. Highly advertised soaps such as Safe- guard and Dial may be dry out the skin and be unnecessary for daily use. These soaps should also have reduced contact with dry skin. among the most popular lotions on the market, but may not be the most effective. Urea containing lotions are better lotions for skin · lubrication; one urea molecule traps three molecules of water. Urea tends to intimidate many people, but its therapeutic uses have been known since the an- cient Egyptians used infant uriHe derivatives for skill care. Dr. McEvoy mentioned that though infants may have diaper rash, tl1eir contact with urine, aNd thus urea, may be responsible for their \baby butt\ soft skin. Products Recommended by local dermatologists (phote by Josh Haines/TC) The last option for retaining skin moisture is to improve the amount of moisture in the envi· ronment around you. Aside from taking a trip to warm and sunny climes, humidifying the environ- ment is the best way to reduce the amount of skin moisture lost. Putting a pan of water on your radiator, or purchasing a humidi- fiermight be one of the best ways to prevent dry skin in the long mn. Daily maintenance and care can prevent the need for specific dry skin treatment. Using a washcloth and diluting the soap by sudsing is recom- mended in any areas where you know your skin is dry. Excessive bathing is also a po- tential threat to skin. The fre- quency of showers and baths should be decided on a need ba- sis rather than the expectation of taking one daily. A person who does not exert himself may not need to shower everyday. In fact, unwarranted daily showering will only deplete the body of essen- tial skin moisture. If a person needs to shower fre- quently precautions can be taken to retain as much moisture as pos- sible. Lubrication with lotion and bath oils help to keep moisture in the skin. When using bath oil it~ the tub no soap is needed; soak- ing for 10-20 minutes in the oil- water will get you clean. A bath oil may also be applied directly to the skin after a shower. For best results, first towel off and then apply a small amount of bath oil directly to the skin. TI1e variety of lotions and lu- bricants available are often daunt- ing for the person who does not understand chemical jargon. Commonly used body lubricants are mineral oil, petroleum (Vaseline), and even several cookir.g and vegetabie oils. Hy- drogenated oils are effective and safe but may result in an unpleas- ant odor. Mineral oils and vaseline are preferred for this rea- son. Lubricants and body lotions should be applied while the skin is still moist in order to retain as much moisture as possible. Lotions are used for more lo- calized use. It is hard to suggest one good lotion for everyone as each individual has special needs and preferences. Some people find certain lotions more greasy and heavy than others, while oth- ers may have to use hypo-aller- genic products. Dr. McEvoy warns that the most popular lo- Chapping and irritation are the most common symptoms of dry skin and are easily remedied with lotions. Without proper care however, dry skin can lead to ec- zema and require a regimen of cortisone treatments. Special thanks to Dr., Bernard McEvoy for the information and skin care tips. For other questions regarding skin care, Dr. McEvoy is located at 650 Franklin Street tions are not always the best. AI- and his office number is 374- pha hydroxy acid lotions are 7222. GIVMY Syndrome Replaces NIMBY Syndrome by Eric Habib Environmental Editor There is a common assumption by the public that the not-in-my- backyard (NIMBY) syndrome is an ironclad law of political behav- ior when it comes to getting rid of solid waste. Very often, com- munities with decreasing landfill space seek to export their waste to other areas that have landfill space available. Most communi- ties, though, are unhappy to re- ceive garbage from outside their borders; NIMBYism. In fact, pro- spective receiving states often fight legal battles to prevent the extra waste from entering. Garbage on Long Island, how- ever, has become as valuable as gold. New York State, a few years ago, decided to close landfills on Long Island to protect the under- ground drinking water supply. Several towns on Long Island, as an altemative to landfilling, have invested hundreds of millions of dollars in building incineration facilities to bum their trash. In- cinerators are very expensive be- cause they need to be fed garbage constantly at specific capacities to operate efficiently; otherwise pol- lution from the burning process escapes. In addition, there are scrubbers required by law to keep almost all pollutants from escap- ing into the air outside. rl1e cost of building these in- cinerators was passed on to haul- ers in the form of high incinera- tion fees, whereas in the past, many towns charged haulers al- most nothing to dump at open landfills. It is ironic that just at the same time when towns on Long Island have increased their gar- bage fees to help pay off multi- million-dollar incinerators, an abundance of out-of-state landfill space has lured haulers off Long Island where they can save mil- lions by dumping trash instead of having it burned. Thus town offi- cials are concellfted that a strong incentive exists for haulers to seek out these other, less expensive fa- cilities. Garbage haulers are business- men; they go to where they get the cheapest price. One town's incineration fee will, inevitably, be lower than that of another's. Basic economic principles affirm that haulers will therefore be in- clined to evade the more expen- sive facility in an effort to do busi- ness with the less expensive one; isn't that what America is all about? However, a town which has gone out on a financial limb to build a new incinerator may not attract haulers if its incineration fee reflects the multimillion dol- lar investment it has made. To that end some towns have instituted flow-control laws which channel trash to their own facilities. Towns hope that by applying this flow-control law they will recover their large investments and maybe profit. In fact, town officials have hired police officers to enforce these regulations. It is mindboggling when you think about it, that so-called \Garbage Cops\ actually investigate the trash of each hauler, learn who transports waste illegally, and crack down on them. Recently, several garbage haul- ers filed suit claiming that laws requiring them to bring their gar- bage to a particular disposal site are a violation ofthe United States Constitution's commerce clause. They complain that flow-control laws can add up to 30 percent to the garbage bills they would pay if they disposed of it on the free market. A decision will require the court to balance the issue of laissez fairc economics with a town ··s right to recover some of the costs it had anticipated for a particular facility. The town oflslip is the one that had the garbage barge float along the coast for 55 days a few years ago. Everyone told Islip that they did not want its trash at all and to take it out-of-state. It is surpris- ing that officials, who once pushed garbage from one town to another, are now hiring \garbage cops\ to make sure trash is kept within town boundaries. Call it the GIVMY syndrome. Environmental Update by Juliet A. Clos Contributing Writer Each and every time one flushes the toilet, washes dishes, or takes a shower he/she is con- tributing to one oftoday's most serious environmental prob- lems: the degradation of our pre- cious water resources. As most people already know, waste water travels from houses and offices to POTW's (or sewage treatment plants) where it is treated and supposed to be detoxified. But recent studies have proven that this treatment is not sufficient. Currently, our waterways are suffering from a humanly in- duced condition called hypoxia, a state of extremely low dis- solved oxygen in water. Hy- poxia is caused by concentrated organic waste emissions. An overload of nitrogen, which is carried in all organic human waste, acts like fertilizer that is put on gardens. Nitrogen ap- peals to plant life causing it to go out of control until, in its de- cay, it utilizes a large portion of the available dissolved oxygen. Without sufficient dissolved oxygen, marine life will suffo- cate or flee and, as a result, gen- erate areas of \dead\ water. Most of today's existing POTWs were constructed during the 1950s. These plants employ only two levels of detoxification, while a tertiary stage of treat- ment is necessary to remove Ni- trogen from water. The addition of a tertiary stage of treatment is very expensive because it would require these existing plants to be twice their size to accommo- date both the unanticipated population growth in the past 40 years and the enhanced treat- ment facilities. Recent legisla- tion now addresses the problem of funding the necessary upgrad- ing project. This new legislation will most likely be introduced to the public when the Clean Wa- ter Act is revised. I I J

SCIENCE & HEALTH January 20, 1994, Page 7 Engineering Antibodies by Andy Salama Science and Health Editor ~ites and only hind to one specific antigen. In addition to variable components, antibodies also con- sist of a constant region, which varies from species to species. ity of a MAb to home in on a highly specific cellular target makes them an excellent indica- tor for cancers. Scientists link a radioactive amino acid to an an- tibody and then inject it into a suspected cancer patient. The specific MAb binds to proteins oiJ}y found on the surface of can- cers cells. This type of imaging helps doctors to ~ee cancer cells invisible to X-rays, MRI's, and CAT scans. Fab One of the bodies greatest de .. fense mechanisms is the immune system. Our bodies have the. abil- ity to recognize antigens which circulate in our system. There are two types of reactions ,in the im- mune system. The cell-mediated response, which utHizes cells to fight off bacteria and viruses, and the humoral system which is re- sponsible for the production of antibodies. In a nut shell, anti- bodies are complex proteins which have the ability to recog- nize and bind to antigens with extraordinary accuracy and selec- tivity. Once antibodies bind to their Specific antigen they can ei- ther attract other cells to engulf or eat the infected cell o:r cause antigens to form insoluble com- plexes in the body which ~ventu­ ally become engulfed. Monoclonal antibodies(MAbs) are the focus of antibody research. When our b_odies are exposed to an antigen, our immune system responds by producing ~mndreds of species of antibodies (polyclonai antibodyf In such a response most of the antibodies produced will not be used, only several antibodies are specific enough to bind to the antigen. Most of the responses are polyclonal, and are not nearly as effective as monoclonal re- sponses. Mouse monoclonal an- tibodies are relatively easy to pro- duce. They are made by fusing mouse b-lymphocytes, which produces antibodies, with a can- cerous or immortal cell. These cells perpetually produce antibod- ies. Human b-lymphocytes are not as cooperative to fuse with cancer cells. These MAbs can be linked to drugs and can be used to treat both specific and localized malignancies. The success of treating human diseases with mouse MAbs has been marginal. Many patients produce human anti-mouse antibodi,es(HAMA) when in- jected with mouse MAbs. The human immune system recog- nizes the foreign antibody protein and subsequently launches its own attack on the MAbs negat- ing the drugs effect. coo- coo· The structure of antibodies is rather simple. An antibody con- sists of four long chains of amino The new trend in MAbs is to replace the constant region ofthe mouse antibody with a human counterpart. By exchanging a human amino acid sequence for the mouse sequence, the antibody can in effect be humanized. Re- searchers have had some success with this procedure because the immune system does not always recognize the humanized anti- V H = Variable-region heavy chain CH = Constant-region heavy chain VL =Variable-region light chain CL = Constant-region light chain ·,'acids called polypeptide chains. There are two light chains and two heavy chains with respect to molecular weight. There are vari- able regions on the antibody which serve as specific binding Mouse antibodies have won them a niche in the medical diag- nostic field of cancer. The abil- body as foreign. A California lab, Protein Design labs(PDL ), has come up with a different ap- proach. POL technicians have determined the shape and se- quence of antibody binding sites. They synthesize the genes which code for the binding sites and in- ject them into ceJI cultures. So far PDL has succeeded in human- izing 12 antibodies with no HAMA responses. ' Advances in Research on the Cause of Alzheimer's Disease by Kenny Lee SCience a.nd Health.Edltor Not since the discovery of Alzheimer's disease in 1907, by Alois Alzheimer, has there been this much enthusiasm. about the disease and the prospects for it's cause and cure .. When Alois Alzheimer discovered plaques and tangles in the brains of his patients in 1907 and associa~ed it with a degenerative disease the work hit a wall. Now, over 80 years later, in research labs across the country, in particular at Duke University, there have been find- ings that link 80% of all Alzheimer cases to a variant in a gene that codes for apolipoprotein E(APOE-E4), a blood protein on chromosome 19. This finding expounds on a previous hypoth- esis that linked Alzheimer's to a mutation on another gene, that codes for another protein, which causes build up of plaques in the brain. This has lead to the belief that APOE-I:4 encourages plaque formation in the brain by either forming the plaques or by not re- moving the build up of the pro- tein that causes the plaques to form. . aoOstlnO dte~ry::~,. · •· ··· .. ·· ·. · ··•·· ·· .. · \' : :'·~f:.??f'F!~''~~,~~· Tacrine is ~he first drug approved for the treatm.ent.of ~lzheimer's· . : · · · . disea~e. It works by' preyenting an en~yme from. b.r~akitig .t1~wn the_· . . c11em1cal messages sent betwe13n br~an cells.· .. =. =· · ··.•.. . • ··: .... _:::·:···. :::.: __ ..... ;·:>_·: ·.·.· ' '·_:. .• · • • • • ' '. _. • • • • • • • • • • • • '•. •,• .·:' • • ·: • • • • .. • •• • 0 ·-· .• • .... .. , . . '.-::e,,...~ •. tlr-~,..•~····Altl~~~~er·a [)i~.e RQ~~~f'Ch.:Qt)lt11_..~-J'$JJY:~o.t::~~1 . . .... · .. ~:::·::\.- .. ~ a case study done at Duke it was found that .a family in which Alzheimer's was inherite~ also inherited this mutated portion of chromosome 19, including APOE-~4. From this study and through studies of autopsied pa- tients who had Alzheimer's it has been found that having one APOE-~4 gene increases your chance of getting Alzheimer's disease three times and having two almost guarantees that you will have the disease. With the strong evidence in hand research is now centered on drugs to treat the disease. To this point only one drug exists to com- bat Alzheimer's and it has the negative side effect of destroying the neurotransmitter, acetylcho- line, in the brain. This effect is very dangerous to Alzheimer's patients since acetylcholine is al- ready in short supply in the brain. If this hypothesis is true then an ethical problem arises, until a new drug is found people will want to know if they are predes- tined to have Alzheimer's disease or not. The only thing we can say now is that Alzheimer's disease is not caused by aluminum. Source: Scientific American November 1993 . . A MESSAGE CONCERNING YOUR TEETH· Satisfied with the way your teeth look? Revitalize your image! Dr. Lesser and his staff invite you to experience the warm, friendly atmosphere of our office, and receive and oral exam, x-ray, and dental cleaning for $75.00. Dr. Lesser treats children and adults and is now receiving new patients. Our modern, state-of-the-art office is conveniently located and evening appointments are available. UC Students will receive an additional 10% off NEW PATIENT EXAMINATION X-RAY & DENTAL CLEANING $75.00 (over $125.00 Value) Children & Adults Welcome CALL FOR AN APPOINTMENT TODAY Mention ad in order to receive new patient discount Expires 211/94 Healthier Teeth Dr. Judd Lesser, DDS 1541 Union Street Schenectady 374-0385 ·'

I l l I i l I 'IDJre Qlnn.cnr.biensis SCIENCE & HEALTH Engineering Antibodies by Andy Salama Science and Health Editor One of the bodies greatest de- fense mechanisms is the immune system. Our bodies have the abil- ity to recognize antigens which circulate in our system. There are two types of reactions .in the im- mune system. The cell-mediated response, which utilizes cells to fight off bacteria and viruses, and the humoral system which is re- sponsible for the production of antibodies. In a nut shell, anti- bodies are complex proteins which have the ability to recog- nize and bind to antigens with extraordinary accuracy and selec- tivity. Once antibodies bind to their specific antigen they can ei- ther attract other cells to engulf or eat the infected cell or cause antigens to form insoluble com- plexes in the body which eventu- ally become engulfed. The structure of antibodies is rather simple. An antibody con- sists of four long chains of amino sites and only bind to one specific antigen. In addition to variable components, antibodies also con- sist of a constant region, which varies from species to species. ity of a MAb to home in on a highly specific cellular target makes them an excellent indica- tor for cancers. Scientists link a radioactive amino acid to an an- tibody and then inject it into a suspected cancer patient. The specific MAb binds to proteins only found on the surface of can- cers cells. This type of imaging helps doctors to see cancer cells invisible to X-rays, MRI's, and CAT scans. TI1e success of treating human diseases with mouse MAbs has been marginal. Many patients produce human anti-mouse antibodies(HAMA) when in- jected with mouse MAbs. The human immune system recog- nizes the foreign antibody protein and subsequently launches its own attack on the MAbs negat- ing the drugs effect. January 20, 1994, Page 7 NH' 3 coo· coo· VH =Variable-region heavy chain CH =Constant-region heavy chain VL =Variable-region light chain CL =Constant-region light chain ·,'acids called polypeptide chains. There are two light chains and two heavy chains with respect to molecular weight. There are vari- able regions on the antibody which serve as specific binding Monoclonal antibodies(MAbs) are the focus of antibody research. When our bodies are exposed to an antigen, our immune system responds by producing hundreds of species of antibodies (polyclonal antibody)'. In such a response most of the antibodies produced will not be used, only several antibodies are specific enough to bind to the antigen. Most of the responses are polyclonal, and are not nearly as effective as monoclonal re- sponses. Mouse monoclonal an- tibodies are relatively easy to pro- duce. They are made by fusing mouse b-lymphocytes, which produces antibodies, with a can- cerous or immortal cell. These cells perpetually produce antibod- ies. Human b-lymphocytes are not as cooperative to fuse with cancer cells. These MAbs can be linked to drugs and can be used to treat both specific and localized malignancies. Mouse antibodies have won them a niche in the medical diag- nostic field of cancer. The abil- The new trend in MAbs is to replace the constant region ofthe mouse antibody with a human counterpart. By exchanging a human amino acid sequence for the mouse sequence, the antibody can in effect be humanized. Re- searchers have had some success with this procedure because the immune system does not always recognize the humanized anti- body as foreign. A California lab, Protein Design labs(PDL), has come up with a different ap- proach. POL technicians have determined the shape and se- quence of antibody binding sites. They synthesize the genes which code for the binding sites and in- ject them into cell cultures. So far POL has succeeded in human- izing 12 antibodies with no HAMA responses. Advances in Research on the Cause of Alzheimer's Disease by Kenny Lee Scie11ce and Healtlt Editor Boosting hlelnOif ~, . ,•,• Not since the discovery of Alzheimer's disease in 1907, by Alois Alzheimer, has there been this much enthusiasm about the disease and the prospects for it's cause and cure. When Alois Alzheimer discovered plaques and tangles in the brains of his patients in 1907 and associated it with a degenerative disease the work hit a wall. Now, over 80 years later, in research labs across the country, in particular at Duke University, there have been find- ings that link 80% of all Alzheimer cases to a variant in a gene that codes for apolipoprotein E(APOE-L4), a blood protein on chromosome 19. This finding expounds on a previous hypoth- esis that linked Alzheimer's to a mutation on another gene, that codes for another protein, which causes build up of plaques in the brain. This has lead to the belief that APOE-r4 encourages plaque formation in the brain by either forming the plaques or by notre- moving the build up of the pro- tein that causes the plaques to form. Tacrine is the first drug approved for the treatment. of Alzheimer's · disease. It works by preventing an enzyme from breaking down the . chemical messages sent between brain cells, In a case study done at Duke it was found that a family in which Alzheimer's was inherited also inherited this mutated portion of chromosome 19, including APOE-!:4. From this study and through studies of autopsied pa- tients who had Alzheimer's it has been found that having one APOE-!:4 gene increases your chance of getting Alzheimer's disease three times and having two almost guarantees that you will have the disease. · · ·Ac·etylcholirie, · a chemical that carries brain. ~ignals A. cJe.· • I .... // Ch · Enzyme breaks ·down· . · · ~c~tylcho~ine · · . y-. - .. ~ ! . .. . . ~· . -: .. .· .-.·.: With the strong evidence in hand research is now centered on drugs to treat the disease. To this point only one dmg exists to com- bat Alzheimer's and it has the negative side effect of destroying the neurotransmitter, acetylcho- line, in the brain. This effect is very dangerous to Alzheimer's patients since acetylcholine is al- ready in short supply in the brain. If this hypothesis is true then an ethical problem arises, until a new drug is found people will want to know if they are predes- tined to have Alzheimer's disease or not. The only thing we can say now is that Alzheimer's disease is not caused by aluminum. Source: Scientific American November 1993 A MESSAGE CONCERNING YOUR TEEr.fH · .. ' ' . . ·. . ' . . . ' . . . ' . . . ' ~ Satisfied with the way your teeth look? Revitalize your image! Dr. Lesser and his staff invite you to experience the warm, friendly atmosphere of our office, and receive and oral exam, x-ray, and dental cleaning for $75.00. Dr. Lesser treats children and adults and is now receiving new patients. Our modern, state-of-the-art office is conveniently located and evening appointments are available. UC Students will receive an additional I 0% off NEW PATIENT EXAMINATION X-RAY & DENTAL CLEANING $75.00 (over$125.00 Value) Children & Adults Welcome CALL FOR AN APPOINTMENT TODAY Mention ad in order to receive new patient discount Expires 2/1194 Healthier Teeth Dr. Judd Lesser, DDS 1541 Union Street Schenectady 374-0385

. •' January 20, 1994, page 8 Cuts. Ell:e:oUir.: .. . ·, M·o~e 4p.~f 1 .•• J ·' WRUChas again rn::ade lis·aware·():f.tlte:Ji · ,., •nat\;lt¢\~f)j{i\ij.y' · of the organizations t>n tllis campus~ how:. is:affectsthe way that money is distributed to stqdent club$,··. · ·.· . ... . .·. · ·'· · · .. · · . , ·· , ·;· Union 1 s radi·O station\'rs tile dl~es't:sl#lrS~'I~ lh~ ~a~b*; ~~ .. · therefore it is imp6rtat1t tir ·tttruntai'tt '·atif!t\ ih!Ptfiv~ tlil: ·····utdi~ ·Q.f'' broadcasting. The fact that tlie leveloffUP.tll · · · ·· · · : . · ~~:: been cutto levets c6ttl~arable toth,()$e'o£W~ .··.... , ay~ 'fl!~·.: . Finance Committee· does not·agtee.. €bnsid~g~~· th~ \lf*:(nni~~~· anniversary,. fundingsh6ul:d'be iricr¢a~ed<'u:f*!low ftitilboost·]ltit$·';, signal not to cut-it. WR:UCbas th¢t~gestme!ftoetsh115ot~)t cl\ttf • ~~m~:!:: ~nd benefiti~:OO.~~.:~~~~~~~.~:.c ·· ~eli.·'· •• Tiierc;rare other orgamia:ti(\)fi$:·~Jhi$.vo@lu~lt&t· ; small percentage o£'tfi:e strident:futiti~: ·y funding askedfo~~ Wou · tli¢S¢;,·) :<' 1 ; they do not s~rvtfoHn'tt . . 'lik;t!:nT!~~~~:::d?~~~~~k;:,::·\. repteseritthe ·opirliBns ·oftJntbft'stUd~fifiJi, . of students ar&'invi:11vediri·these~&,;,a.cn .• i · · do·~ot rec~ive.adequ\ta;fifudiitg; t'lie ~.~~~·b <1bviously notbei:fi' m·et < •.. ·· · ·.·· ., ' '· ....... '' .·.. . .... . g . . . .... . . .... · , ... · ....... ·, .. , .......... ,. :··'\·:.·· .. ,.,,,,, ,.· ' ,,, ·the coli~ge cdmmu~ity ·is in t,n~' tp~~~t~f' ~~c.t~ing·~~··~utl~~!\; · cuts, but the adniinist17ltion att \' . .· t<) )fi~~ ~eeist'ons···tll~t' Will =•·. · b~we negative etfetts: ori'the few~ ·. ·· i~~r~(lf:~~~pl~;;'l~itt~\t . notthe t:ase with ttiedisfrib\Uti~n drtmrds'trttoutlifid¢tit ·· ·· · · · Cltios 'that··· attfci¢fkfuuetifintef~st arid w61\k t<lardi:'tn~;bl} ~i~i51iti~~)~~~\' I enough ·awrn·around'ittthis··kpatily:i:sn · ···· ·· · · rii 1 ·•. ~.er.~fit~ge'·o.f·~e. P.~pu··.l~ti6.·.· .. :.?. l~~·.ru:.· ·.·~~~ .•. :.a. ·t;, · · · eneoutt\geu. and ·not 'nave to,:bte~ tl ·.··· ..... · .•.. ~~~V:~~iw:e~~~\~- 1 ehcouragecltr¥1' .• 6. use '*he' t~, . ... . ., ' II ~ape~, an~lot~er.if0upswnic~ni~.. ,: _ be ~ncourageti as w~ll. · . . , . . . . M. . 1 ...• ·• · ,; > · •• :; •• ; .....•.. · . : •• , .• :: · ... · · (:\· • •. : .·,: ·i·.;;<;:,~:i~l'2·.::;;L1~:{::JJ'zr.c:~::::·: r- -- j '<ir4-e Qlnnrnrnitnsis Tile Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 1 David Levine Editor-in-Chief Executive Editor News Editors Features Editors Arts Editors Sports Editor Layout Editors Copy Editor Photo Editor News Analysis Editor World News Editors Opinions Editor Science & Health Editors Business Editor Environmental Editor Advertising Editors Associate Photo Editor Associate Sports Editors Associate News Editor Associate Editor Computer Manager Faculty Adviser Photographers Editorial Board Levine Reynolds Lemoi Rubenstein Deb Mcinerney Caroline Paine, Matt Karlyn Erin O'Neil, Alexis Leist Belinda Crago, Niki Goldin Talley Heisinger Dagan La Corte Lisa Lemoi, Buffy Rubenstein Heather Reynolds Josh Haines Veronica Rogers Lara Greenberg, Craig Greenberg Sarah Evans Andy Salama, Kenney Lee Dylan Ratigan Eric Habib Sharon Smith, Fran Goldstein Scott Steele Joe Salzbart . Lee Schachter, Greg Kalish Alex Kreisler David Fischer Brett Saunders Scott Scullion Scott Druckemiller, Emily Schrier Michele Roseman Staff: Bruno Benzaquen, Thor Benander, Elizabeth De Koven Michelle Ellis, Sarah Evans, Alexandra Gualpa, Eric Habib, Mike Leding, Alissa Mayo, Alexis Leist, Pam Lin, Bharat Navani, Mike Nelson, Larry Paska, Karen Pepiatt, Craig Pike, William Rice, Suzanne Robinson, Michelle Rosenbaum, Alex Shapiro, Shveta Srivastava, Rawson Thurber, John Huang. The Concordiensis meets every Monday and Tuesday of the aca- demic year. It is published by the students of Union College. OP-ED Letters to the Editor: Compromises Necessary for Efficient Operations Dear Editors, I am writing in response to your criticism about shortened hours of service and loss of flexibility. The College, like all other businesses, must operate in an efficient and responsible fashion in order to maintain its fica! integrity. Union is facing the need to limit spend- ing in order to stave off a poten- tial shortfall in the current budget year. We, in Dining Services, are doing our part to help keep our College fiscally strong. We've studied the patterns and trends and found, that in spite our extending the hours at West College, Dutch Hollow and Upperclass Dining Hall,. our customers still take their meals at the \traditional\ times. We do not have the budgetary flexibility in the current economic climate to maintain expanded hours of operation without a cor- responding customer need (us- age). Similarly, a careful study of expenses indicates that, at present, the Equivalencies cannot be sup- ported. Careful stewardship of Union's resources requires us to act in a fashion which will result in our hours of business provid- ing the most varied choices pos- sible for the greatest number of people {attainment of the great- est good for the greatest number of people). While I comrilend you for a very well written editorial, I must take issue with your premise that we have curtailed services, choices flexibility. (A) Although the hours of West College and the Upperclass Dining Hall were rolled back from the experimen- tal continuous feeding (West 7:00 a.m. to 7:00p.m. and Upperclass 11:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.) the cur- rent hours (West 11:30 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.lunch, 4:30p.m. to 6:30 p.m. dinner, and Upperclass 11:00 to 2:00 p.m.lunch, and 4:30 to 7:30p.m. dinner) add three and one half hours daily. (B) Dutch Hollow which serves as many as eight hundred in an evening was doing an average offifty to eighty students from eleven to one a.m. (C) The first two weeks of Fall tenrt and the first week of Winter term we allowed anyone who wish to shift plans to reduce their meal plan and credit the differ- ence to their Vali-Dine account. (D) Please aslo recall, that en- hancements added this year in- elude the opening of a Conve- nience Store, streamlining the meal plan configuration and add- ing a two hundred dollar flexible spending (Vali-Dine) account to all meals plans, along with the inclusion of all our beverage and snack vending machines in the Vali-Dine network. Your constructive criticism is welcome. We wlll continue to survey your preferences at regu- lar intervals although we cannot always guarantee our freedom to respond to all your requests. We welcome maintaining an open dialogue to improve services. A complete listing of Dining Ser- vice COmmittee members and their subcommittees is available in the Dining Services Commit- tee members and their subcom- mittees is available in the Dining Services office in the College Center, Room 202. Our entire management team is available to discuss dining concerns at any time and' welcome your partici- pation. Signed- . Janet R. Gray Editorials, Letters & Disclaimers Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP-ED Page and must be received by 5 p.m. the Tuesday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. Final Decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed, although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and no one member in particular. Any opinion columns reflect the opinions of the writers, and not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial Board. Advertisements appearing in The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. The Concordiensis is published Eight thursdays a tenn by the students of Union College. It is funded in part by the Student Activities Fee. The Concordiensis, copyright 1993, all rights reserved. Box 2577, College Center, Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308. Telephone (518) 370\6155. The Concordiensis is published by The Leader Herald, 8-10 East Fulton Street, Gloversville, New York 12078. The Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP), National Student News Service, King Syndicates. SUBMISSIONS : All submissions are due the Tuesday before publication at 4 p.m. if they ate submitted on either Macintosh Microsoft Word disks, or MS-Dos Microsoft Word or Wordperfect disks. Otherwise all submissions are due Monday by 4 p.m. in the drop box outside of The Concordiensis office on the third floor of the College Center.

OPINIONS January 20, 1994, page 9 More Budget Cut.s Threaten Diversity of Education To the Editor: Last week President HuH infoi'Itled ,e that he had directed his Terms Abroad Director, WiUiam Thonias and Dean of Faculty, James Underwood, to eliminate one of the terms abroad scheduled for next year. Their decision was to cancel the term abroad scheduled to Braz·il because Union's current budget problems prohibit supporting the number of terms abroad now scheduled for 1994-95 -- particularly with the school's addition of a new term abroad to Kenya. Th·e administration's argUment is that since there are limited funds next year for terms abroad, and because students have waited a long time for Kenya, the tenn abroad to Brazil must be elimiQ.ated for, 1994-95. This will make budgetary space for the new Kenya program. Union administrators also argue for \cycling developing countiy programs\ such that '~no morethantwo\ oftheseprograms are held in the same year. If Brazil is postponed untill995-96, there will be \no more than two developing country programs\ in 1994-95, Mexico and Kenya -- but the administration seems to forget that China will also be held in 1994-95, making a third developing country program in that year. And having programs tin China, Brazil, and Barbados in 1995-96 will still give the college three developing country programs in that year as will. What could possibly be wrong with the rigorous examination of three or more developing countries in one year? The tenn abroad to Brazil has now been scheduled to cycle with Kenya, with each being held in the other's alternate year. According to Union's administrators, this will give students a different African diaspora choice evel.)' year, with no more than one choice in each year. Therefore, as one administrator explained to me, the Kenya and Mexico terms abroad 'will be held in 1994, and not Brazil also -- (over half of Brazil's population is af African Heritage). While, the terms abroad to Barbados and Brazil will ·be offered in 1995. Did I miss something: Aren't Brazil and Barbados also part of the African diaspora, yet both are being held in the same year? Cancellation of the Brazil tenn abroad for 1994-95 unfortunately may refle.ct Union's intellectual and political priorities, and the admi'nistration·' s misunderstanding of the Brazil term, whose focus is on \Women Technology, and Economic Development in Brazil.\ The Brazil term is not only Union's one term abroad to focus specifically on women's roles in developing countries, but also apparently the only academic study term in the U.S. to do so. It serves a population of Union students whose study abroad needs are not met by the college's other programs. Cancellation of the Brazil tenn makes clear the limits of Union's academic commitment to intellectual and cultural diversity\ The much under-represented socio-cultural and linguistic region, the largest country in South America and the largest population in the Western Hemisphere. Untouched are the large number of terms abroad to Europe already well represented within Union's Euro- and U.S. -centric General Education Program, and very well represented by terms abroad offerings. If the very rigorous term abroad to Brazil can be put on hold for one year, then it is equally possible to cancel for one year the term abroad to Italy or to greece. Postponing either of these terms abroad would not compromise at all Union ~s language programs, since neither Will Three Hours Last a Lifetime by Heather Reynolds Co11cordiensis Staff The statement, \Oh I can't do anything for the next few weeks, I have Rush: has been running rampant through the Union College community since the semester began, and I for one am getting a little worried about the things people can't do because of Rush. I know that one of the purposes of college is to be out on your own, and to take this time when you have no great responsibility to have a little fun, but one of the other reasons for college is to learn and to become a productive member of society, and I think that sororities at Union have forgotten this. I want to know how anyone can hope to find, and I quote from a rush function I attended, \forty- five instant friends\ from spending a maximum of three contrived hours of time standing in little circles talking about the parties you have gone to in the past few weeks. \Add hot water and stir\ is not a common set of directions that come with life- long friends. Monday night all the sisters of Delta Delta Delta, Delta Gamma, Gamma Phi Beta, and Sigma Delta Tau stayed up late into the night deciding who to invite back for the next night of rush. How did they come to these decisions? What could be more shallow than this? I am no exception to the rule that humans make quick judgements about others, but we were great instead of . thesejudgementsareknowntobe contributing my efforts to too hasty to be trusted. How do activities on campus that are you know who you will want as important to me. We don't wear you sister for the rest of your life the same color clothing and stand from a forty-five minute outside of dormitories disturbing conversation, and who would the sleep of all the people who want to become a member of an dared to remain independent. We organization that chooses you remain \sisters\ without giving after only forty-five minutes?. up what makes us unique. Many of the freshmen women The trend that scares me most I have talked to about rushing said is when rush ends and people they didn't really care about have their bids to their separate getting into a house or not, but sororities. People who had they wanted to have the become friends through the experience. How many of those natural course of life and went people will change their tune into rush together, suddenly find when they get the coveted bid that their original judgement in from their sorority of choice? I.,.. friends doesn't match, and is for know many who have. Why are some reason determined to be not they all so embarrassed to tell as good as their new sisters. others outright that the~ are Receiving bids at different rushing because they want to? Is sororities or worse when only one it that they too know there are friend gets a bid and the other quite a few imperfections with doesn't is sure tq end of a this system? friendship. In a matter of days, Independence is something they don't eat lunch together valued by others in the outside anymore, don't hang out in the world, but at Union people seem library together or stay up late to fear being classified as such. talking about life's ups and You have somehow failed to downs. Invisible boundaries have complete the Union Rite of Passage if you have not rushed. Greek life at Union takes precedence over everything: academics, other activities, friends, and most of all nonnal sensibilities. None of my friends would fine me monetarily for studying for a test on a night they had hoped to spend bonding. None of them would require me to stay home and practice songs and skits to convince others that been delineated and few are strong enough to cross them. What is so wrong with finding your own group of friends, what is so necessary about have three greek letters and a bunch of secret codes and pacts to bring you closer together? I hope that more than forty-five percent of the population of Union females comes to the conclusion that there's nothing wrong with independence! tenn -- like Brazil -- is tied to a foreign language major concentration. But, Professor Thomas has explained to me that Greece and Italy cannot be canceled: Their suspension would create housing problems on campus. Does this mean that unless some of Union's students are gotten off campus each year, the college will fac.e housing problems? In the end, is Union's academic program driven by the availability of beds? The administration's cancellation of the Fall 1994 term abroad to Brazil contradicts its stated commitment to diversifying Union's intellectual climate and curriculum (see 'mq\ <!Ioncormmsis, 1/13/94:1). Union's administration has chosen to eliminate a term abroad that examines and celebrates Latin and African heritages, while not eliminating -- even for one year -- one of the many terms abroad that focus on European customs and culture. Students who have been demanding more intellectual diversity at Union may see the administration's exclusion of Brazil as further evidence of the College's lack of commitment to ethnic diversity and to women's studies. Do not get me wrong. Europe is extremely important to an undergraduate education -- particularly if students learn about colonialism, the slave trade, indigenous cultures and their extinction, labor movements, and women's struggles. So all of Union's current terms abroad to Europe cover these subjects? In the Brazil terms these are carefully examined and we also explore Brazil's many cultural and political roots in Spain and Portugal. In other words, the Brazil term provides an important service even to Union's General Education European concentration . ~ Cornel West: by teaching about dependence and interdependence within the colonial Euro-centric world system. Having been offered only twice before, initially ( 1989) because I was able to obtain much funding from outside the College, and then only one other time (1992), canceling the term abroad to Brazil can hardly provide much saving for the college; in fact, the Brazil term is among the least costly, especially because its students have never received the air fare assistance that has been routinely granted to some other terms abroad. Further evidence of the College's lack of commitment to the Brazil term abroad. Apologies are due past participants of the Brazil term abroad -- I was never told that they could received air fare subsidies. You can write to President Hull, Dean Underwood, and . Tetms Abroad Director, William Thomas requesting that they reverse their decision not to hold the Fall 1994 term abroad to Brazil. Beside.s what this cancellation says about the college's commitment to curricular diversity and women· s studies, this will also be a loss for interested sophomores and juniors, who will otherwise not be able to study in Brazil. There is a contradiction between the college's \almost 100 percent\ study abroad goal and elimination of a term abroad that serves students who are not likely to select any of the other study terms. Among these are the students seeking to study women and economic development within an African and latin socio-cultural context. Sincerely, Martha Huggins Another Apathetic Audience To the Editor: Last night, as I listened to the question-and-answer period fol- lowing Professor Cornel West's talk in Memorial Chapel, I was struck by the absence of questions posed by students. A large num- ber of student organizations spon- sored the talk, several student rep- resentatives ofthese groups intro- duced the speaker and the talk, and were seated on the stage behind him. Student attendance at the lecture was high. It was obvious that students had considerable in- terest in the speaker and the sub- ject addressed, and yet no student asked a question. l11is is a trend that I have ob- served at many of the on-campus talks (Bicentennial lectures, and so forth) that I have attended during the past year. I find this trend trou- bling. Why do students allow members of the faculty and of the Schenectady-area community to dominate these discussions? There can be no doubt that stu- dents have questions to pose of the speakers, but they choose to pose these questions individually at the receptions following the talks. Do they think that their questions are not worth voicing publicly? That they do not have anything to contribute to public debate on major (and, indeed, on minor) issues? That the rest of the audience would not benefit by hearing their questions, their insights, their concerns? If so, they are mistaken. I challenge students who read this letter to participate more fully in future discussions. Mary Carroll Department of Chemistry end your letters to the. editor to ~e <llon:cor()-iensis - Box 2577

< ·' January 20, 1994, page 10 Business Indian Givers; What Risks Are You Willing To Take? by Alex Shapiro Associate News Editor \There'll be time enough for counting, when the dealing's done\ Most of us are aware of the existence of casinos on Indian reservations. Many have loved and lost in thes~ money hungry halls of degradation. We are all too aware of the lure of the al- mighty dollar, and the peril it embodies. The actual inhabitants of these sacred reservations, the tribes, are growing extremely· tense over the infiltration of greed that surrounds the casi- nos. This influx of business, nine-hundred million dollars annually, and the greed-heads that naturally follow such money, is ·creating a reckless disharmony amongst the tribes. An unnatural tension lingers heavy in the air as big name powerhouse cempanies such as Hanna's, Caesar's World, and Showboat Casino propose $75 million casino complexes to unprepared Indian officials. The previously undreamed of profits oveiWhelm tribes such as the Ak-'Chin who have barely managed to survive for years by growing cotton. Casinos are real, they are now, they are what's hot, and it's no secret to anyone. The gannent industry is selling it's goods through casino retail shops at alarming rates. Pay- ment up front and profits that are busting through the ceiling have had excited responses from all ends of the spectrum. The customers go in, fully ex- pecting to lose a couple bucks, and if they win they buy there- tail products to celebrate. A fellow student who uses the alias \Dog\ recently lost four hundred dollars and stili claims to have a good time. If this seems like a fairy tale too good to be tme, .it is. The business is doing irreparable harm to already fragile inter- tribal relations. Martin Antone Sr. is the Chairman of the Ak- Chin Indian of reservation in Maricopa, Arizona, he likens it to a some sort ofcontest, a race. He is quoted in The New York Times, Jan. l3 as saying \I could smell the money\. Hopefully for his sake he isn't just smelling the expensive co- logne of some slick industry hotspur suckering him out of his fair shake. 111e government has regulations that are sup- posed to protect the reserva- tions. Federal law allows sub- stantial investors to take up to 40 percent of the casino's profit for seven years. That seems fair, allowing everything will remain on the level for ever. The Benefits of Winter Sure Thing with Robitussen by Alex Shapiro Associate Business Editor l11e business at hand is win- ter, and how to beat it. Winter in New England is a genuine opportunity to bask in all the beauty that melancholy has to offer. The painful cold forces remembrances of warmer days. These memories fuse with the promise of a raging spring to create a little haven in the mind away from all the brutal com- plications of winter. True, triple A is so busy tow- ing cars out of lots that you would have liked to park in, that they have no time to tow your car to the repair shop. The clutch, having somehow given in to the icy cold reality of the three feet of snow that is col- lecting on top of it, decided yes- terday not to work. Your car and other physical distractions, such as drafty windows and faulty heating facilities, can actually be seen as your key to freedom instead of your cranky jailor. Through the constant tor- ment of another Schenectady winter, the path is being laid out for your personal journey to the electric world of Melancholy. Beyond the leading prescrip- tion cough medicine and the itchy wool sweaters lies a pal- ace of happy sadness that will set you free from the petty com- plaints of your peers. The time is at hand to expe- rience all that your mind has to offer. Sit in a chair with one foot bare and the other in a cold soaked through boot, and take some time to get really into whatever is on your mind. Why not, there isn't anything for you outside. l11ink about how cold they were in that movie \Alive\. Then think about how much fun evetyone in that movie \Cocktail\ must have had filming it. Build up your level of melancholy to a maddening level then run out- side and jam in the snow. Whip some snowballs at some passerbys and howl at the gloomy sky. After all, it's winter, not hell. l11en if you need some cold medicine go buy it. Hot tip of the week, buy stock in Robitussen. Interested in developing your LEADERSHIP SKILLS IN HUMAN RELATIONS .,.... BECOME A PEER FACILITATOR Learn more about communication skills, sexuality, acquaintance rape, racism, sexism, homophobia, and AIDS. Put on workshops to facilitate discu~sion on these topics among your peers. If you are interested ... Get more information and a brief application at the CDC Submit the application by Friday, 1121 -training and activities will extend from spring '94 - spring '95 -qualifications include the ability to speak and listen effectively William Thompson, public ad- ministration professor at the University of Nevada at Las Vegas was also quoted in the New York Times, Jan. 13 edi- tion as saying, \Gambling offers Indian nations the best promise for a good life since before Co- lumbus came. Yet it could eas- ily tum into just another for ex- ploitation by outsiders.\ Ac- cording to Murphy's Law, any- thing that can go wrong - will go wrong. Murphy is not usu- ally wrong when this kind of cash is on the table. What does the future hold in store for Indian Reservation Casino's? Mike Weed, a Con- necticut Reservation regular, \Casino! Casino! Casino!\ Steve Peck, Union College, \I would fight to the death for those casinos! They are my life blood, without them, I would have to resort to swindling my friends out ofth~ir money in fixed card games again!\ Support from loyal customers is as much as guaranteed. As long as the flowof cash is steady 'and fast, it seems the nay-sayers will continue to go unheard. And there are many citizens who shiver in horror at the mention of casinos. Paul Nash, a resident of the Mohawk region, \l11e casino is the worst kind of pornography ever to hit this area. Casinos bring out the worst in human nature. People sneak around stealing and sell- ing illegal drugsjust to ptill that slot machine lever straight to hell!\ This voice is not alone in it's opposition, but for now the money just smells too good. This is after all America, the home of the free, and the land of the proud. So step right up and try your luck, it's just like Vegas! Union College Department of Biological Sciences The Biology Department and The 'Biology Club Present \Microtubule Dynamics in Liv- ing Cells\ D. Partricia Wadswortjh Department of Zoology University of Massachusetts, Amherst Thursday, January 20th Social Sciences 103 4:40p.m. Refreshments 4:30 p.m.

mq.e o.t_nntnr.bi.ensis Arts & Entertainment January 20, 1994, Page 11 About a dollar a slice. Thin C1\USI pepperoni. Extra cheese. No anchovies. Introducing the new Apple Computer Loan. Rightnow, with this spe- cial financing program from Apple, you can buy select Macintosh® and PowerBook® computers for about $30* a month. Or about a dollar a day. (You could qualify with just a phone call.) And if you apply by Printmaking Professor to Exhibit Work in Arts Atrium Courtesy of tile Arts Department Sandy Wimer, Adjunct Assis- tant Professor of Printmaking at Union College, will show a group of prints that represent her most recent work in the Arts Building Atrium January 14- February 6, 1994. This exhibit is in conjunc- tion with the University at Albany's Sesquicentennial Cel- ebration highlighting visual arts · alumnae. The landscape theme of Wimer's work takes a new tum in her ongoing investigation of the interaction between land and sky. Caran D' Arche monotypes are the studies for the lithographs that depict the sometimes foggy/ fuzzy laHdscapes in warm and cool gray combinations. The subtle images, in dreamlike fash- ion, deal with a space that reads flat at first glance. Upon further observation a sense of deeper space begins to emerge. A reception for the artist will be held Thursday, January 20, 1994 from 4:00pm until 6:00pm in the Arts Building Atrium. The public is invited to attend. Sandy Wimer .. Prints·· January 14-February 6,1994 Artist Reception Thursday, January 20, 4-6 PM Department of Visual Arts Arts Building Schenectady, New York About a dollar a day. The Macintosh LC 475 4180, Apple Color Plus J4\Display Apple Keyboard II ai1dniouse. January 28, 1994, your first payment is deferred for 90 days. Its an incredible deal no matter how you slice it. So, why should you buy an Apple® computer? It does more. It costs less. It's that simple. '- •~ Introduclng The New Apple CompLltei Loan • Visit your Apple Campus Reseller for more information. Union College Bookstore College Center, 2no Floor • 388-6188 .. 'Monthlv pavmenl i.! an estimate basrd nn till Apple Computer f.otm of $t.446 for the .1/ttcmtosb LC 47'i .n:~le.ln .fiJOtt'll abo!'e. Prtce and loan mnnzmt m·e f!tlsrd 011 Apples e.,fllllllte ty'!Hgh,••· t'diiCtiltOIIJII1Ce., ''-' oJ IJdr~IJrr J 1 19'!3 .·Ill wm{mter I'J'I·tcm f'l'lu'.l loan amounts tmd mo11tblv pavment' nun· 11171'1' See your ilf!ple CrmzJms Re.!rl/nfm• czm·enl.<!:flem pt·ftes A 'i 5'% lntm oriMtllrllimlfi't' tmll he lidded tr1 tht· reque.!led lot ill amuunl lhe mlm>·.<t \'''' « nmct!J/,. hased ,,, the <'<~llllllclttal f•a{'a 111/c ('It•' i li ·•,, !·ur the Ji/011/b of October 1993 tbr mleres/ rale tms 1151%, 1/'i/IJ an APR o(980\'o. H')WII' loanlmnu:t1h •in />rl'/111!'11/ent penal(r Tbe mnnthll'fitlJ'III/Wt sboll'ntw·umes 110 deferll/1'111 of {'1'11/Cif'rtl or mtel't\,·t ldrjernwllltul! dwtgc \'Ut/1' lllt•lllbl! f'<illlt,·>I/,IJ !be 1{1{'/,· Computer /nan i.< mb;t•ct In rredllllf'Jlml!a/ @J /Q9_1 .4{1/1/e l.imtfnder Inc 111 •wht.< ''\·'\''ted AfJJI/e. !he Apple lo{!.o . .1/acmla>h and Pon·erRonl: tll'l' l'l',qtslered tmdemarks o/ .. lpfile C.(llltf!u/t•r Inc ---~

. ,, ·,. ,_I\ January 20, 1994, Page 12 Arts & Entertainment 'lfJly.e (tl.oninr!ti.ensis The Ellen Sinopoli Dance Company Concert to Showcase Union College Performing Arts Department Colleagues Courtesy of the Arts Department The Ellen Sinopoli Dance Company, Resident Modern Dance Company of the Empire Center at the Egg, will present a concert at Union College on Fri- day, January 28, 1994 at 8:00pm in the Perfonning Arts Studio. The concert will include two dances highlighting the talents of Sinopoli's colleagues from the Union College Department of Performing Arts - Hilary Tann, Charles Steckler, John Miller and Thomas Ross. *** A Staying Place, a quartet for women, is set to Hilary Tann 's \Winter sun, Summer rain\ with the scenic desit:,'ll of stark metal sculptures conceived by Charles Steckler. A Staying Place pre- miered at Skidmore College in November 1993. Tann 's \Winter sun, Summer rain\ was composed in response to a 1986 commission for the Vale ofGlamorgan Festival with funds provided by the Welsh Arts council. It has recently been is- sued on compact disc, perfonned by the Lontano Ensemble, con- ducted by Odaline de Ia Martinez (\British Women Composers, Volume 2\ Lorelt). Welsh com- poser, Hilaty Tann, has been a member of the fac~tlty at Union College since 1980 and chairs the Department of Perfonning Arts. Her compositions for both cham- ber ensemble and full orchestra have received performances and broadcasts in Europe and Austra- lia, as well as throughout the U.S.A. lntennedia artist and scenic de- signer, Charles Steckler, has been a Yaddo Fellow in Saratoga Springs, NY and an Associate Fellow at the Atlantic Center for the Arts in Florida. Steckler stud- ied theater design with Donald Oenslager and Ming Cho Lee. His prints, drawings and photo- graphs have been in numerous exhibitions. *** Flit, a solo work, to be pre- miered at Union College, will be set to the music of Thomas Ross. Ross has studied and performed Indian classical vocal music and was on a Fulbright for 2 years in Calcutta. Ross' \A Good Woman\ is a cross-cultural com- position combining his roots in jazz with his work with classical Indian vocal music. The Ellen Sinopoli Dance Com- pany press release (colllinued) The remaining pieces to be pre- sented are: Dreams. Solo, Exile, Symbiosis, plus a solo choreo- graphed and danced by Company member, Rob Kitsos. The lighting for the concert will be designed by John Miller. Miller was Technical Director for the SUNY Purchase Dance Divi- sion from 1979 - 1983 and toured with the Purchase Dance Corps as Stage Manager/Technical Direc- tor in 1981 and 1982. He has cre- ated lighting design for choreog- raphers, Garth Fagan, Tom Cahill, B.J. Sills and Thomas Martone. Admission is free. However seating is limited and reservations are required. Call Dawn Parisi, Department of Perfonning Arts, at 388-6201 for reservations. This program is made possible in part with public funds from the New York State Council on the Arts Decentralization Program. Dancers Elizabeth Reed and K. Meta Seintsema (photo by Gary Gold) In Rensselaer County, Decen- tralization is administered by ARTS Decentralization. In conjunction with its upcom- ing campus concert on January 28, 1994, The Ellen Sinopoli Dance Company, will hold an open rehearsal in the Perfonning Arts Studio of Union College on Wednesday, January 26th from 7:30-9:00 pm. Artistic Director Ellen Sinopoli will discuss the development of two works - F,lit (to be premiered on January 28th) and A Staying Place .' The fol- lowing artists will participate. in these discussions: Thomas Ross (composer), Hilary Tann (com- poser), Charles Steckler (scenic designer), John Miller (lighting design) and K. Meta Reintsema Bitter Sweet Philadelphia Albany's First African Americans: by John Huang Contributing Writers Braving the extreme chill of Schenectady winter, I went to the theater to see Philadelphia with the hope ofwanning not only my mortal coil but my spirits as well. T11e movie was like a cup ofwann coffee with sugar, bitter yet sweet. The movie, in which Tom Hanks portrayed a successful law- yer, Andrew Beckett, who was fired from a p(estigious law finn because he had AIDS, focused on Andy'sbattle against the disease, both in the courtroom and his hos- pital room. After being fired from the finn on the basis of a minor problem of misplaced file, Andy was convinced that he had became a victim of AIDS discrimination. Despite his health deteriorating, he decided to sue the firm and found on lawyer would represent him. Finally, he came upon Joe Miller, played by Denzel Wash- ington, a homophobe who was ignorant of the methods of HIV transmission. The movie fol- lowed Joe's worried eyes as he carefully followed Andy's move- mei1ts and where Andy placed his hands and hat as the two discussed whether Joe could help Andy. Reluctantly, Joe took the case, only after witnessing the blatant prejudices Andy encountered, ai1d they went to court. Running parallel to the film's focus on Andy's legal battle was the other theme of the movie, homophobia. Andy Beckett was gay and hid his sexual orientation from the people at the law finn. On the whole, the film was weak on the attention paid to Andy's life as a character. His lover, played by Antonio Banderas, was rarely seen and their relationship was bluntly missing. Also miss- ing from the movie was Andy's family and their relationship with the main character; especially his mother. His mother was por- trayed as a strong, caring mother who loved her dying son very much and was devastated from the impact of the disease on Andy. The film never touched on her role in Andy's life or her thoughts on AIDS, \homosexuality or Andy's past, present, or future. What the film did focus on was Joe's change as the movie pro- gressed. After taking the case, he began to see Andy as a person just like anyone else. This was espe- cially evident at a costume party hostedby Andy. Attheparty,Joe was given a chance to see Andy and his lover together. As Joe and his wife danced, Andy and his lover were also dancing together. There was absolutely no threat to Joe and he became aware of the common thread in all people -the need to love and be loved, whether gay or straight. Mter the party, Joe was alone with Andy who submerged himself in a piece of opera. It was here where Joe saw the emotional pain of AIDS as he became enthralled in the music. Philadelphia is Hollywood's first major work devoted to AIDS. The attention on the hard- ships of people suffering from AIDS is definitely a positive step on humanizing the horrible dis- ease. AIDS victims do not need pity, they need compassion. Go see this film if you can, it's worth every penny. Slide Lecture and Workshop Featured at the New York State Museum African Americans in 18th and 19th century Albany and the how to's of community history are the focus of a slide lecture and workshop at the New York Statem Museum. The lecture takes place on Thursday, February 10 at 7 p.m. The workshop is scheduled for Saturday, February 11from 9a.m to 12 noon. The lecture is free and open to the public. The fee for the workshop is $15 per person. Museum Members pay $12. Preregistration is required by january 28. For information on how to tegister call (518) 474-5801 weekdays. Both programs are presented by the director of the Museum's Colonial Albany Social History Project, Stefan Bielinshki His richly illustrated slide lecture considers the roots of the African American experience, the early days of community life, and how the city's African ancestry population estahli.vheditself. The workshop will include instruction on the techniques used to recover and interpret community history and a guided tour of early African American historic sites in Albany. ! '

FEATURES January 20, 1994, page 13 It's Sorority Rush Week Again and Union Women are Again Fighting for Their Time in Front of the Hall Mirror · they do notice, does that mean sometimes. Silly girls. warped. · 6. \Your past reputation by Erin ~· O'Niel Co ... Features Editor Well it's thattime of year again. The halls of the dormitories are once again filled with the sound of young women scurrying from room to room searching for hairdryers and tweezers. You see them standing in line for their turn in front of the hall mirror. Why the sudden concern about appear- ance? Why it's sorority rush week of course the most exciting week of the year. This is the week that you make fifty best friends in fifteen minutes, and if all goes well in just a few short months you will have a house full of new sisters your mother did not give birth to. This year the issue ofdress code has taken a drastic tum- rushees may dress in any manner they please, and now each is burdened with the troublesome question- dressy or casual? Dressy or ca- sual? Will they notice that my shirt doesn't match my shoes? If they won't like me? God! What can I wear?! I hate my clothes. They're all going to think I'm fat- and if they think I'm fat then they probably won't like me. What if I don't get asked back to a house? Then nobody will like-me! I have no friends. I have no life. I have no social skills. I have to rush. Ifl want to wear my heels should I wear my boots while I'm out- side and carry my heels in a bag for when I get to each house? Boots would look heinous with this outfit. If you take a peek out your window between about six and ten o'clock there's probably a pretty good chance you 'U catch of glimpse of the huddled packs of girls trudging through three feet of snow to reach their next destination. When I see them walk past my window I like to knock on it to get their attention, then snuggle up with my warm fuzzy blanket and mug of hot chocolate and beckon them to come inside. This angers them As I recall, entering a sorority house during ntsh is something like immersing yourself in a sea ofplastichappyfaces. You have suddenly become the most likable creature on earth. People want to take your coat, get you food and drinks, and meet all their friends. Wow! Rushees are spun and flung between the sisters, bombarded with questions and fondue and then treated to a song at the end. Sometimes they do cool hand-slapping rhythm things too. It's kind of weird. While you're visiting the hous.es they also put on a slide show accom~ panied by songs like \Y au 've Got a Friend\ and the theme from Cheers. It kind of just makes you feel all warm inside, some can't suppress the urge to reach over and hug the person sitting beside them. Who knows, someday she could be your \sister\? I've compiled a list often key phrases which maybe commonly overheard at one such party. For- give me if my memory is a bit Dating a lost Artform: It's gone the way of the dinosaur by Rawson Thurber Features Writer I was watching \Happy Days\ the other evening, as nothing else seemed to grab what little atten- tion I posses. In this episode Richie Cunningham had some date with a rather attractive girl in a poodle skirt and a tight sweater. Of course. Richie took her up to \look out point\ (or some reasonable facsimile there of) and they cuddled in his car overlooking some lights or some- thing. It was such a nostalgic scene, I almost wretched. Butthen I began to think, as I'm prone to do on the brief occasion, What ever happened to the \all- american\ date? Dating seems to have gone the way of the dinosaur. It only seems to occur in the lonely thirty year old age bracket. I think I've come up with a couple of ideas as to why dating seems ·to be a lost art form. Dating: Anyone? Bueller? Any- one? I think that part of the reason that dating doesn't occur that much anymore is because no one knows exactly how to do it. I mean we ( When I say \we\, I mean ''I\) just don't know how to do it. Hey, ifyou.want to go out with four other people, or to a movie, or both, we can swing that. There's little conversation. once the lights dim, and if we're in a big group we can speak with other members of our sex to see how we're doing. \Hey did I go to far?\ \No man, she loved it. She just called you that cuz she likes you\ ''Really? You don't think that that 'Women belong in the home' joke crossed the line?\. ''Naw. You're rolling man keep it up.\ But in general to most guys (ex- cept those who actually enjoy watching black and white mov- ies} dating is as foreign as Limburger cheese. Women .ba.\'ically too heaut(fu/: Let's face it. Women on the whole are much more beautiful than men. A nude woman (or so I've heard) is a beautiful sight. Were as frankly, a naked man looks silly. I've had the \fortunate\ expe- rience of dating a beautiful woman, once. After many hours of begging and pleading she fi- nany agreed to go on a pity-date. Sothat I'dhave something to brag ~ about when I went away to col- lege, This gir:l was \drop-jaw\ gorgeous, she looked like one of those beer commercial girls that buries you in the sand then takes your beer. I asked my mother were I should take such a girl em my first and final date. She sug~ gested a play. Bingo. A play. Per- feet. I made. the arrangements, and it was all set. . I picked.her up, and from that moment forth it was to be the most awkward moment of my life. For anyone who has never gone out with a stunning mem- ber of the opposite sex here's a little bit of advice, don't do it To make a short story long, I took her to the play and was ab- solutely uncomfortable. Other men kept staring at her and then lookingat me, trying to hold back their collective laughter. I couldn't speak, I kept stumbling over my words, and stepping on my tongue. I felt like that five foot grubby guy you see walking down the street with a leggy blonde. l11e kind of guy you just look at and say, \Yup. He's paying for it.\ At any rate, the date came to a merciful end, and I returned to hiding in my room reading comic books thankful that the experi- ence was over. Hope for the .future: Everything in history is cycli- cal. TI1is is shown clearly by fash- ion. Sixties stuff is making a come hack. Yes this includes the dreaded bell-bottom jeans. Look how 'bout this. Everyone who owns a p.airofthese fashion-blind denim pants, bring them to me in exchange for a 70's Disco fever compilation album (Hey, I hear Disco's making a come back. Umm, no it's not. You heard wrong. Go back to whatever poly- ester mill you just crawled out of.). But I digress. what I am at- tempting to say is, that the mys- tery of .the date will eventually unravel with time. So if we 90's guys can't figure it out, wait a couple decades. Questions. comments. or irale banter: Rawson Thurher Box#2018 t~~~~~~Mt~u~u~­ ~ ~ ~* i(//{J~ ~ ~- 'W1 W~.-N- ~~' Wdl, ~ ~~ ~· u- 6~ .C/'1- A~~ E~~ 2~7 1. \Our house is extremely di- verse. We have sisters that are sophomores, juniors and se- niors!\ 2. \It doesn't matter if you and your friend end up at different houses, it'll make you even closer. That happened with me and what's her name.\ 3. ''We have the highest G .P .A. on campus.\ 4. \Everyone in this house is an individual, and you can be to if you join.\ 5. \We don't look for a spe- cific type of girl. By the way, I like your boots, I have them in black.\ doesn't matter.\ 7. \What's your major? Bio?! Judy over there is a Bio major too, I'm sure you must have a lot in common.\ 8. \Pretty cold out there, huh?\ 9. \The whole house gets along really well.\ I 0. \Do you want some co- coa? It's sugar free.\ Of course the best advice is to dress warm and be yourself. Maybe if you're lucky you'll slip on a patch of ice, break your leg and have to drop out. Now that isn't nice, is it?. Uncle Edna He's .No Jo.hil Slotkdale Uncle Hdna is a Union College stude/11 whli) hC:gqn..al? this mm- .'>ense almost two years ago. Pt,qplexed? Di~'ttaught? ('olor- .· blind'! Wtileyour tmde.ft.Jr ad~ vice. UnCle Hdna~ box 83, Edna's mailbag Dear Uncle Edna What did I ever.do to get ca\tght in this frozen hell-hole for four years? l pon.'t ~hink l deserve it. Frigid and Bitter yer 7. Talking to Ross Perot 6. Going to the prom with Ami . Fisher 5. Owning Whitewater real es- tate 4. accidentally killing Free Willy in a boating accident 3. Being Vladimer Zhirinovski's PR guy 2. Eating a burgo 1. Havit19._ to wash and fold . Rush Limbaugh's underpants. H:AlKU of ttie week It is so cold out Polar bears ~re wearing scarves And penguins eannuffs ·Zen PhHoso~ phy Sfultems· of the W~k · · ..... ' ~~ ·£va1l Wilke$'. W.:tdle ilrEt .... , ..... ·.'.z.:.••.••.·.a., .•.. -l!c.~~eJs·.,_lsP.;.)l).~., ... a.'.:,lc.·.·~.·• .. -.r~ .. \l•.t.t.'L.'.·.·~ ····\.•hl!.·n········:··· .... ~Mr .. ~.·· ... ·r:h· ... ·.·.·.·.h .... · ....... ·.;;. .• •t . J¥<:,·,:;:_,: .. :~·, .,;• ,fl . Ll'an ~a 4 ... ~~.., :~'' '''\'T·· 't,.. fhtcl1. ·g e •tjlt? ., ... , ~,lg:;g9~~\~~-~1~tt~. ..II ... ~r. .. am . mg , ~it-:.a;44- . ·,,. . ... .• ... ' -i:ttaV.e .. . . . . ... ·.·. · 'u,; · ~r: sin,gftJtt>'tW.e · · ·~•ett~~\~J: ~~itlg~·.,·~ .~riti;~ .•... ·· )ta¢t .. 6f·i~lat~o~~£~t • ··.· ·· · ·.a:g~~44;.S. ·. 11t~~kett~r\vhile .. \\leaiitt~unl;y. Y'n~i. \ · · . spur§ and a'lel1\'bJia1t()i1 iuit. GdOd · '· .,,, ··''··· Job, ·· · ' ·· ' • 23 1 i<'~ts dfttnr~m1 eobbitt ::~~·-q~~.ti~·J~§~p~6lat RPl. APewT~fcll VourFriends 2 t.,• . t;q~lng ·three cousecttti ve · ~[tpe~~~~;s,;::·.'. . · A~. . alb , lfl1l1g . . A horse walked into a bar. The bartender says ·~so why the tong fa:ce.'~ ... :l~. w·f,\~Jm)tp at CJ;?1 for a . t~{)~J~~t ' ·. . .. · ra: &eating speared ~y a 17 fo_ot How do you tell a male chromo- ici¢1~ in'fta.m of the· Colleg<f some from a female chromo- • tellter · · · · · · s(nne? . {i; \1/heu·ypur Bduget$ freeze Pun ao\Vt1 its get1es. )·6. KitVht~Mi~haeiiack~orlac- · · ·· ··· 'Cilse;_v(>'uor:f)eiug~petveil \Vhf ·a<>t1't' ·diiinibals eat . 15, Havit1g ·tn<i>t~ bait 1n :ynur .. ctowns? .• .' Because they t~$te . ~atsandno~thanony-ourhead funny. • '14. Bei.ng·Tonya.Harding · 13. · Having to de-Uce Howard J?orecast ·.Stern · .12., Not being able to temem- •ber someone's name who uses yours repeatedly t 1 . Wearing wet socks ,, 10. Sitting on a cold toilet seat 9. Getting turned down by Bob Packwood 8. Being Joey Buttafuoco~s law- Cold next week with a chance of snow. Califomia will drop off the continent. Bubbles the · monkey will file sexual abuse claims against Michael Jackson. Lorena Bobbitt will he sen- tenced to hard labor. .....

RUBES® By Leigh Rubin How man would have evolved had remote control not been Invented. l<ll By Leigh Rubin -~--. Primitive anesthesiologists. OK ... ~~~' ~~ KEE? ~G R.I6Jr( \\)RN.. ~~ ON ~\..L ~\<. ~V \~tL~, \\lLt.. \66 ~'Ei L6fl~ .. OUT ON A LIMB by GARY KOPERVAS BUTCH AND DOUiE by ALEX HOWELL ANION I WHazt; At2.E '( OH,F\~rroN... YOU,ANTON. 1\N:fON!~~

SPORTS Athlete of the Week: Rich Pulver by Mike Leding Concordiensis Staff Yes sports fans another amaz- ing week of Athlete of the Week is back. This marks the first time in a long time that a track athlete has one this dubious award. If I recall correctly the last time this award was given to someone on the Track Team was 1860 when old Eliphalet Nott ran the 400 meters in the old field house. This time it has been won by mammoth shot puttet Rich Pulver. The last four years Rich Pulver has made great strides to become one of the best shot putters in all of Division three sports. This man works year round at this sport and it really shows up in his results. Whether it is lifting weights, doing agility's, or just plain runnjng thirty miies a day, one can find Rich doing it. Two weekends ago Rich drove himselfto Dartmouth to compete in a track meet consisting of Di~ vision I through ill athletes. It was Rich's first meet out of this young indoor season. Ricli threw the shot 15.79 meters(51 feet 9 and 3/4 inches for us non-engi- neers). He finished third out of the plethora of Division I athletes in attendance, and right off the bat qualified f0r the Division lli Na- tionals. The biggest indoor meet of the year fbr anyone who is any- body in Division III Indoor Track & Field. Following this great perfor- mance Rich placed first in the shot put last SaturGlay at Williams in a Division ill meet consisting of Williams, Hatnilton, N.Y.U., Saint Rose, and Union. Rich out ofF art Edward, N.Y. won easily with a thFow of 50 feet 8 inches. Look for Rich to improve greatly between now and the end of the spring season as will the rest of the Track Team. Rich takes his strong ann to Hamilton to weeks from now to hopefully land an- other first place. W eH that's all for this week look to next TI1ursday when you once again can be graced with another Athlete of the Week oh the sHspense is unbearable, but we will all just have to wait. Women's Track Underway Courtesy of Women's Track Indoor Track has begun!!! Yes, we run in the snow and the sleet and freezing rain. We love it. Last weekend seven women took on the Hamilton, Williams, N.Y.U., and St. Rose teams. In- dividually, all fared quite well in their events. First, Nadine Filosi ran the 55tn hurdles, the 55m run, and the 300m run. She placed second in the hurdles and the 300 while taking fourth in the 55m run. Amelia Audette and Louisa Busalachi ran the 1500m run in amazing speeds. It was an ex- tremely strong run for both women. Diana Spenello placed third in the lOOOm m~. Amelia, Louisa, Amy Sledziona and Diana ran the 4x800m relay where they took an amazing third place with a time of 11:12. While all this running was going on, Dawn Landry and Allison Gonyeau tackled the long and triple jumps. Unfortunately Allyson injured herself but Dawn competed well, walking home with two fifth place finishes. The women's next meet will be at Hamilton in two weeks. Swimming Teams- ·.~Defeat· Hockey Loses Twice to RPI Hartwic·k Conti11ued from page 16 ~ny goalie _in the ECAC ·~hen he stopped a 90 second, two-man Union advantage by making sev- eral spectacular saves. Gallant held the game scoreless by mak- ing 13 saves ofhis own. Continued from page 16 · In: the second period, RPI took individual swimming·events, and · to the offensive, firing 14 shots also won both diving event's: and · to the Dutchmen's 9, scoring both relays. Senior Kelly Bevan twice. RPI's Richardson scored ledthewaywiththreeindividual 8:41 into the period on a first places, followed by Jackie breakaway, and Brick scored his Crane with two, Natasha Zabka 13th goal of the season on a 3- with tWo.in the diving events, and on-1 with just over .four minutes Jenn Allaire with one~ Taking remaining. Des·pite Little's part in the two first piace relays goaltending, and a couple defen- were Anne Rezwadowski, Jenn sive lapses by the Dutchmen, Terrell,· Jenn Baldwin, Eri Gallantwasabletokeephisteam Hayashi, Jonatha Meade, CeCe within reach. Buchanan, Allaire·, and Crane. In the th·ird period, Union Also scoring points for the shocked most of the 4000 fans in women were Alyson McKee, the Fieldhouse, as the scored Amy Ambrosini, Jen Davidson, twice in the first 3:33 of the pe- and divers Nicole Rubin and riod to tie the score. The first Amy Lamphere. The women's Union goal was scored by Cory team was very impressive as they Holbrough on the power play, left Hartwick dazed. and Scott Boyd was the second Said Coach Susan Bassett, \It . · Dutchman to beat Little at the was fantastic. It's always great beginning of the period. to beat one of our biggest rivals Less than five minutes later like that. We had some great Xavier Majic beat Mike Gallant swims, and we're showing lots of to give the lead back to the Engi- improvement. Now we're look- neers. Fifty-three seconds later, ing forward to the remainder of Holbrough one again beat little on our regular season and the state the power play, squaring the score championships as well.\ Indeed, at three, on a pretty pass by Reid it was a great weekend for the Simonton. Swimming Dutchmen, and now RPis offense was too tough for they look forward to travelling to the Union defense, forcing six- Middlebury this Saturday. So if teen shots on goal in the period, J5 you see one of the swimmers, to Unions 7. The Engineers fi- e divers, coaches, or the manager nally beat Gallant at the 18:48 ~ around campus, be sure to con- mark on Craig Richardson's sec- ..., gratulate them on a job well done ond goal of the night, giving RPI and to wish them luck for the rest the 4-3 lead. An empty net goal of the season! gave the Engineers a 5-3 win, and a season sweep over the Dutch- men. Neil _Little stopped 30 of Union's 33 shots for ·RPI, and Gallant stopped 38 of the 42 shots he faced. Union remains in last place in the ECAC with a 1-7-1 record (5-7-2 overall), while RPI improved to 5-3-1 in the confer- ence ( 11-4-1 overall). Union will host the ECACs other cellar-dwellar, the Yale Bulldogs on Friday at 7:30p.m. January 20, 1994, page 15 THE 'K' Korner By Greg Kalish Associate Sports Editor Welcome to the first official week of'The K Korner,\ the Con- cordiensis' latest and greatest contribution to journalism and man- kind. In an attempt to keep the legacy of\Schach Talk\ alive, this column will employ controversy and occasional humor to delve into the deepest echelons of the sports world, a world that con- sumes so many of our lives. So sit back, relax, kick your feet up, and prepare to laugh, cry, and sing high praises for this inaugural edition of \The K Korner.\ Nowadays, when people think of funny, it is hard not to think about James Miller, right? Who?! James Miller, the man who interrupted a heavyweight championship fight in November by parachuting into the ring at Caesar's Palace. Two weekends ago, Miller attempted yet another parachute. This time, his target was the Los Angeles Coliseum during the Broncos-Raiders playoff game. Believe it or not, he missed. First of all, we here at \The K Korner\ have to wonder what is going on inside the head on one Jim Miller. You might recall that, after landing on the top rope at Caesar's, he was dragged into the crowd of spectators surrounding the ring, who then proceeded to beat the hell out of him. Keep in mind that the first hundred rows of a boxing match are nearly always occupied by wealthy, well- dressed, business men with little regard for fighting itselfbut merely interested only in whether or not the fight will produce a payday. FootbaJI fans, on the other hand, are just a bit more fanatical and tend to get a tad more excited. What would have happened if Miller had landed on them? Secondly, while I am not schooled on the exact dimensions of either a boxing ring or a multi-purpose Olympic stadium with the capacity to hold more than 80,000 people, I am quite sure that, if given the choice of parachuting into one of the two, I would prob- ably ascertain that the latter would be a jump of seriously less difficulty. Yet, Miller carne a hell of a great deal closer to the boxing ring, canopy and all, that he did to the open-aired stadium! Go figure. Before I close, I would just like to wish the Dallas Cowboys and all of their fans the absolute worst ofluck next Sunday as they play the San Francisco 49ers for the NFC Championship. No, I am not a bitter Giant fan, still mourning the thrashing the Big Blue received at Candlestick last week. They performed better than any- one expected or could have asked for in 1993. It's just so easy to hate the Cowgirls. The fancy Troy Aikman and his nifty fifty- million dollar contract will reach the end of line in Irving on Sun- day. (Sorry, Glazer) 49ers 34 Cowboys 24.

I I,' January 20, 1994 PAGE 16 Wlf.e C!Innenrb-i.ensis . . Engineers Derail Skating Dutchmen Rensselaer Shows Championship Form in 8-2, 5--3 Wins by David Levine Editor-in-chief The much anticipated home- and-home match up between the pre-season ECAC favorite Rensselaer Engineers and the much improved Union College Skating Dutchmen turned into a showcase for RPis .offensive jug- gernaut, as the Engineers swept the Dutchmen 8-2 at Achilles Rink, and 5-3 Saturday at Hous- ton Fieldhouse. Donavan and Albert. The goal prompted an onslaught oforan:ges thrown onto the ice.. Union did not receive the customary bench penalty because play was not stopped for a long period of time. Soon after, Rensselaer scored again, this time on a power play goal, to take a 5-1 lead into the 1 ocker room. RPI had only outshot Union, 12-8, but many of the shots taken on Gallant were from point-blank range, as the defensive intensity in the crease had evaporated. At the end of the u second period, Union blew a ~ golden opportunity after RPI's ~ Askew took a 5-minute major~ penalty. Union's long power play e opportunity, turned into a 3-4 ~ shorthanded situation after Union e committed two minors. Vl On Friday, Rensselaer goal ten- der Neil Little, a candidate for the Hoby Baker A ward, withstood an early flurry of Union shots, be- fore Rensselaer's steady offense broke the will of the Union De- fense, scoring four times over the course of eight minutes and forty- eight seconds with Eric Perardi, Craig Hamelin, Kelly Askew, and Clarke scoring between the 4: 11 mark and the 12:59 mark, the last coming on a power play. The capacity crowd of 2504 were qui- eted quickly Luigi Villa replaced Mike Gal- B lant in the second period, but he _g ~edno~~~ ~lla~~~d -~S-ha_n_e_R~o-~-n-~-a-a-~-e-n-.~.-a-i_n_•_R_P_f_p_l_~_e_r_i_~_R_r_M_a-,-~-8---1-fu-s-.~-a-t_A_c_h_U_k_~_R_i_n_k~~~~~~~ only three of the five shots he faced, and Little stopped all nine of Union's shots for the period, allowing the Engineers to built a 7-1 lead over the Dutchmen. Villa was pulled midway through Union's Jeff Jiampetti broke into. the scoring column for the Dutchmen with 4:15 remaining in the period, with assists from the period by Gallant. The crowd thinned out in the third period, as Rensselaer re- moved their star goal tender, Little, and the game was on ice. Jiampetti scored again for the Dutchmen, but freshman star Chris Ford separated his shoul- der, and he is questionable for this weekend's game. RPI rolled to an 8-2 win. Saturday's game proved to be much more entertaining, largely due to the spectacular goaltending of Union's Mike Gallant. The Dutchmen's inability to score in the first period against Little, and the Engineers, despite firing a siz- zling 17 shots may have cost them the game. Little showed why he has the highest save percentage of continued 011 page 15 Swimming Team Defeats Defending State Champs by Lee Schachter Associate Sports Editor This past weekend, the Union College Men's and Women's Swimming and Diving teams went on the road and defeated one of their biggest rivals, Hartwick. For the men's team, it was the first time in 13 years that they beat Hartwick- the two-time defend- ing state champions. It was a huge victory for both the men and women, and showed that Union will once again be a force to be reckoned with at the state cham- pionships. The men's team used both upfront strength and depth to come from behind in a thriller. After trailing Hartwick 62-49 at the half-way point, Union had a dominant second halfofthe meet to finish with a 128-114 victory. Overall, Union took first in eight out of nine \individual swimming .,>,,~y. rookies, Bill Fleming and The Union College Men's Sharon Morton. Bill finished . Track team opened up it's sea- fourth in the pole vault with a son this past Saturday in a meet jump of 11 ;0\. Sharon finished against Williams, Hamilton. fourth in the 55m dash with a , N.Y.U. and the College of St. time of 6.5. The meet com- Rose ~t Williams College. menced with an impresiiive ef~ Union was lead by Rich fort by the 4x400 meter relay Pulver who won the shot put ·team. The team of Brendan . . with a throw of 50'S.\. Rich had Sullivan, Mike Leding, Russ alteady qualified for Nationals. Stram and Jonathan Simon ~ith his impressive showing at placed se.cond in a close race the Dartmouth relays when he · with Wil1iams. AU in.all this was ·. . finished third amongst top Di- aproductive meet for the men'.s 'vision I talent. team. . . . .One of the more .impressive . ·individual efforts put forth. Sat .. urday· was l:>y John Metz .. John : placed fourth in the 1-5'00 by passing four opponents with 200 metel'Sleft in the r:acefmishin;g· ·with a personal best 4;22.16. . The ~eam.will be trave,ling ~o Hamilt0n Jan· .. 29•, £or the • Hffinllton Invitational. With first · meetji.~rs. out ofthe.w,ay-; this., meet looks to be a law1ching pad · for num¢tous 4U'!Ulfying times.: for the Sta~ meet. ' • • -r. ,.,·, \ •·-; \· ~' .,. • events- all of which were ac- counted for by junior Scott Bowden and freshmen phenoms Mike Humphreys and Kevin Makarowski, each overtaking a school record in their efforts. Bowden took first in the 100 yard freestyle , the 200 freestyle, and the 200 breaststroke. Makarowski won the 200 indi· vidual medley, the 200 fly, and the 500 freestyle- the 200 fly in school record time. Humphreys placed first in the 50 freestyle, the 200 backstroke with a school record time, and was part of the first place 400 yard freestyle re- lay which secured the victory in the end. Also part of that relay were junior Robbie Johnson, sophomore Chris Riley, and freshman Than Stuntz. The men's depth came through too: I lartwick did not take first and second in any swimming event- Union did it three times. Also ~ . scoring points for Union were E Chm Yousey, Chip Quarrier, Bill Vl llumphrcys, John Fitzgerald, and ~ Eric Menard. Rookie di vcrs ~ Chris Bryan and Vinnie ~ Obermeier have been showing ~ J;;; good improvement as welL Ail in all, it was an awesome meet for the men's team. On the women's side, a strong performance by allied to a whop- ping 148-92 defeat of Hartwick. · Union took 11rst in six out of nine Coptinued on page 15 l!nion was stopped on Saturday by Colby, 70-66 at tile Field/louse The Men's Basketball Team improved to an 8-4 Record with wins over Middleberry and Bowdoin .. ( ! ' .1 , , ,, rl ,'~

Volume CXXHI, Number XI Hull Meets With Faculty to Dis,cuss Budget Courtesy of Public Relatians TI1e College's budget was the topic at last week's faculty meet- ing, and the more than 100 fac- ulty members present were urged to assist in the \ongoing chal- lenge'' of maintaining a balanced budget. \What I want us to do is. have a process that isopenanddecisive, '·' President Roger Hull told the fac- ulty. \We will continue to share infonnation and have the process be as inclusive and open as pos- sible. \I think we should take com- fort in the fact that we are in sig- nificantly better shape than most institutions,\ the presidei1t said. \However this is not a one-year challenge but an ongoing one.\ Hull praised members of the Planning and Priorities Commit- tee, who l1e said have beenwor,k- ing intensively on the 1994-95 budget. Faculty members. are Alan Bowman, Alan Taylor, David Hannay, James I<enney, Hilary Tann and Andy Warde. The college recently educed its budget for the current year by2.5 percent because of slight declines in undergraduate enrollment and enrollment in Graduate ru1d Con- tinuing Studies, and an increase i11 the financial aid budget. The president said the College will finish the year with a balanced budget. Three members of tlte President's staff briefed faculty on the budget. Dean of Admissions Dan Lundquist reported that applica- tions for the freshmen class are down about 5 percent from this point last year but stil140 percent Continued on Page .2 . .. on cor t.ensts The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenectady, New York Pl1il Tavemier and Troy Palmer enjoy a laugll 011 tile air at WRUC (photo·· WRUC: PAST, PRESENT AND FUTURE , by Josh Leif Contributi11g Writer The student radio station at Union College, Wireless Radio Union College, or WRUC, will celebrate its 75th anniversary in 1995. Once again, WRUC will reassert its claim as the first li- censed station in America to schedule regular broadcasting. At 8:00 p.m., October 14, 1920, several Union sttidenls made history in a little shed on the sight the college center now stands. The station, then known as 2ADD, broadcast 30 minutes of probrramming that not only could be heard locally, but also as far away as Hartford, Conn .. Later in that same week, WRUC's broadcasts were re- portedly heard by ships on the At- lantic Ocean and Lake MichigaB. It was a group of ambitious stu- dents, led by Charles Steinmetz, professor of engineering, who gave birth to the station. The broadcast facilities included a wire antenna that was strung be- tween two trees, 5 U-tubes loaned by G.E. and records borrowed weekly from the H.S. Barney Company. On November 2, 1920, WRUC received some competition as KDKA of Pittsburgh signed on as the first commercial station in America. Both stations aired the results of the Harding-Cox presi- dential election. Yet Union had to out do the competition and on November 14thofthat same year, WRUC made history once again. The first station broadcasted the Hobart - Union football game. TJ1is made· WRUC the first sta .. tion to air a sports event for the general public. By January 1921 several other colleges, in- cluding the University of Wis- consin. founded radio stations. WRUC continued to make history on May 6, 1921. This time it was the spectacular \Baby Carriage Stunt.\ The stu- dents purchased a baby carriage and equipped it with a radio re- ceiver. A female pushed the car- riage and baby (who. inciden- tally, graduated from Union in 1944) through downtown Schenectady. This was the first instance of a portable radio re- C011tinued on Page 2 welcomes all donations. includ- ing the following items: any non- perisltable canned goods, cook· ies (regular and sugar free). soda, coffee~ tea~ crackers~ chips, creamer. pretz.els,juices~ micro· wav4f .pQMpnh ,~~pS,Jl~pkin~, ~~all p}~~. qB<J suga~ t J\ pi:tz!l ~r.tY will be rewm:qed fQ,the . wpi~ dqn~es tite •. ·, •,'· ... January 27, 1994 Seth Brown Leads Students in Protest over Dining Changes by Alex Gualpa Concordiensis Staff Many Union students are con- cerned about the changes that have been made in the 1993-94 meal plan. They feel that their opinions have been neglected by the administration. Seth Brown. a member of the Student Forum and a Resident Assistant, has heard many of the complaints from his fellow students. He de- cided to take the initiative to bringing about some changes. The most prominent complaint against the new meal program is the fact that Dutch Hollow closes at llpm. Brown admits, \many people are angry about that fact.\ He felt the need to address the administration about the con- cems of the students and about the promises made by the admin- istration which, most students feeL are not being met. Brown feels it is important to speak out because he fears that upperclass- men will just \get used to\ the new system; freshmen, after all, are unaware of how things were in the past and just accept the meal plan as is. In Brown's letter to the admin- istration, he argues the fact that Union students feel they now \have less options, and that the quality of the food has de- creased.\ He presents the stu- dents' request for the following changes: I. To see Dutch Hollow con- tinue to stay open until 1:00am. This is necessary on a college campus as multiple students study at all hours. 2. To be able to use meal punches at Dutch and Skeller. (Last tenn a survey was sent out asking if students would like to usc their meal plan at the Raths- keller or Dutch llollt1\\ Restau- rant m rctum llppcrclass !11 buf- Continued on Pa~:e 2 Inside l\e\ s ............................. 1-2 World :\e\\s ..................... J Business ............................ 4 :\ & E ............................ S-<• Campus News .................. 7 Science & Health ............. 8 Winterfest ........................ 9 OP-ED ............................ Ill Lettea·s ... ; ................... I t-12 Features .................... lJ-14 Sports ........................ 15-16

January 13, 1994, page 2 NEWS Union Bogged Down by Ice and Snow by Elizabeth DeKoven Concordiensis Staff The accumulation of ice and snow is jeopardizing the safety of the students, faculty and visitors around campus. Last week, one of the windows in the College Center's atrium broke due to the massive amounts snow and ice applying pressure to the window. \It was the outer layer of a double pane of glass that broke,\ said Paul Mantica, Director of Security at Union College. \Although I assume that the engineers and architects that designed the atrium specked out windows of sufficient capacities, there are problems with every- thing.\ TI1e fonnation of large icicles on campus buildings has also been causing a threat to people's safety. \The large icicles on the college center have become a t...> problem because of the height of ~ the building,\ said Mantica. \The .5 building is four stories high and ~ Campus Operations would have to have a special lift brought in to remove the icicles, That presents a problem in itself.\ Mantica also explained that heating cables are located near the entrances to the college center. Yet, with the amount of snow that Schenectady has received it would be impossible to think that the cables could melt the snow before it froze. The Campus Safety Depart- ment has decided to barricade the -front entrance to the College Cen- terto prevent people from getting Seth Brown Leads Student Crusade----- contilluedfrompage I fet style. It was mentioned that at least one of these ideas would be implemented in the winter.) 3. Reinstating express lunch with a meal plan punch. (Students have tight schedules and do not have the 30-45 minutes it takes to get food at Upperclass during lunch.) 4. Reopening West Dining until 7:00pm again. As a trade- off, dinner could begin at 5:00pm instead of 4:30. 5. In the future students would like to be infonned of changes in their eating arrangements before they are required to purchase the next meal plan. In addition, they would like dining services and the administration to hold open fo- rums to discuss any significant changes in the meal plan. If stu- dents are required to pay for it, they should have some say in any Hull Discusses Options for Budget ahead of the average for the pre- ceding two years. \In this environment, no one can feel unconcerned about en- rollment,\ Lundquist said, \but we are reasonably well in charge of our destiny on the recruitment front.\ Lundquist said that in recent years Union and peer colleges have raised their financial aid relative to their general budgets. About 17 percent ofthe College's educational and general opera- tions budget goes for financial aid; the range at other colleges cited by Lundquist went from 14 percent at Williams to 29 percent at St. Lawrence. He noted that 150 seniors receive financial aid averaging $11,000, compared to 280 freshmen receiving the same amount. \Our ability to recruit and re- tain students is very seriously tied to our ability to fund them,\ he said. 'The yardstick we are us- ing is need-and obviously merit. We can't overfund for financial reasons, nor underfund for stra- tegic reasons. l11at's the environ- ment we are in.\ Vice President for Finance Diane Blake reported that the College is more tuition-dependent than it was a decade ago. Last year, tuition and fees generated about 75 percent of revenue in educational and general opera- tions, compared to about 70 per- cent in 1980-8 I. She noted that the College's enrollment is about 1 ,875. The College has also become more dependent on gifts from alumni and friends, Blake said. In 1980-81, gifts accounted for 7.4 percent of the revenue, compared with last year when they were 9.6 percent. Comparing the same years, en- dowment income has dropped from 13 percent of total revenue in 1980-81 to 10 percent in 1992- 93. Blake added that the college will seek to reduce endowment spending to 5 percent by 1995. Endowment spending has aver- aged 6.2 percent since 1982, com- pared to the ilational average of 4.5 percent. And the college received less state aid in 1992-93-$311 ,000 modifications that might be made. Brown said, \Union students are beii1g victimized by being forced into these new meal plans. They are not getting what they have been promised.\ He feels that giving altematives is the best way to accomplish any change. Brown believes that the ideal situ- ation would be to \work with the administration to make changes, rather than on the opposing side.\ Co11tinued from page I or .6 percent ofthe budget-com- pared to 1980-81, when it re- ceived $700,000, or 3. 7 percent of the budget. Dean of Faculty James Underwood outlined a number of initiatives being taken to deal with the budget, including examina- tion of teaching loads and the stu- dent-faculty ratio, and urged a broadening of faculty participa- tion. He noted that department chairs have begun a series of meetings to discuss academic pro- grams and the budget. The number of employees at the College has declined by 32 since 1990, including 9 visiting faculty positions. Hull empha- sized that the College would con- tinue to have no layoffs for finan- cial reasons and would continue to meet the full financial need of its students. \We must try to do things bet- ter and more creatively,\ the . president said, \and I welcome · ideas from all segments of the campus community as tohow we might accomplish this goal. De- spite the pressures, I remain ex- tremely optimistic.\ injured by the falling icicles, But, according to Mantica, \people chose to ignore the bani cades and risk getting hurt.\ The barricades proved to be ineffective last week when a student reported that he was hit in the head by a piece of falling ice. The student reported that 11e did not receive any seri- ous injuries, just a small cut on the head. Batricades have also been set up in front of the East entrance to the arts building. \Because repairs are already needed on the roof of the arts building, the school is thinking about some kind of a design to alleviate the problem of falling icicles,\ said Mantic a. \TI1ere is talk about the construc- tion of smhe sort of an exterior protection,\ Tiie City ofSchenectady is also experiencing problems due to the ·cQld weather and snow fall. Last week there was a break in the water main just outside the main gates to the college. \It was early in the morning and the city shut off most ofU1;1ion's water, which included the boiler room,\ said Mantica. \But the college was fortunate that by 4 aJn., the city was able to isolate th~ college and tun1 the water back on before a maj[lr problem resulted.\ WRUC's Past and Future- Continued from page I ception in the nation.l11e carriage was equipped with an antenna, tuning device, vacuum tube ani- plifier and storage batteries. This stunt was repot1ed by the Associ- ated Press and photographs ap- peared in newspapers worldwide. When World War II began in 1940, WRUC was forced to sus- pend operations. But program- ming restuned in January, 1947. and has been continuous since that time. Although the broadcast• ing has been continuous, WRUC's location has varied. Since beginning in the shed, the station's facilities have been in an engineering classroom, the base- lnent of Union's Psi Upsilon fra- ternity, Old Gym Hall (now Becker Hall), Washburn Hall (which stood until 1965 where the library plaza is now), Old Chapel, and presently in the College Cen- ter. In 1940, the station officially changed its call letters to WRlJC. hi 1975, WRUC switched tq FM, operating at I 0 watts. which . was just enough to cover the Union campus. A 1983 Federal Communications Commission ruli11g on public radio stations forced WRUC to increase to I 00 watts, which covers .Albany, Schenectady and Troy. Cunently, WRUC, the Altema- tive Power, offers \alternative\ programming featuring primarily new music, along with Rock & Roll, Jazz, Dance, Rap, Blues, Folk, Metal and '80's music. WRUC also has sports talk, news shows and broadcasts of all Union football and hockey games live, both h:1me and away. WRUC contin ~s to be nm entirely by students, as it has been since 1920. Since the station's humble be- idnnitigs, WRUC has made many improvements. The station has joined TEAMLINE so that Union sports fans around the world can listen to WRUC's live broadcast of Union's sporting events. Also its programming hours have been expanded until 3 a.m. It is pos- sible that WRUC may expand to a 24-hour foi·mat of around the clock altemative music. WRUC continues to purchase and to up- date its broadcasting and trans- mitting equipment to better its sig- nal for its listeners throughout the Capital District and it continues to adjust its music fom1at to what its listeners want to hear. As- for the station's 75th anni- versary, p.lans are still in the works. WRUC hopes to team up with Bicentennial Committee to work on promotional events to benefit both the station's 75th anniversary and Union's 200th anniversary. WRUC's Alumni Association also plans to help in the festivities, as this is a very special time for Union and WRUC. Hopefully, WRUC will continue to grow and to serve Union College in the future. The members of WRUC aim to give our listeners the techttical thrill of commercial stations, the fresh som1d of obscure \undis .. covered'' talent and the subtle humor of student DJ's. Union College, as well as the Capital District, represent large groups of diversified people. WRUC hopes to accommodate each individual with their kaleidoscope of pro- gramming.

NEWS BRIEFS International: China: Improvements in human rights practices have not been suffi- cient enough for the country to keep • its preferred trade status, said Secre- tary of Stated Warren Christopher this · week. World News Israel: Despite the rocky start the Pal- estinian self-rule agreement has seen, Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres expressed high hopes that . the in1passe would be overcome and the agreement would soon take effect. Mexico: Charges of torture and illegal arrests of suspected rebels were brought up against the Mexican army this week. Algeria: The government of Algeria appears to be losing the two · year fight against the Islamic insurgency. The movement seems . to be gaining power while high security compounds have been provided for the govemment leaders. Bosnia: A request by France that Washington step up pressure on the Bosnian govemment to· accept a Ettropean plan to divide the land on ethnic lines has been denied and been the source of disagreement between the U.S. and France. National: California: An investigation intowhy the supposedly quake proof thruways collapsed is underway, while earthquake victims take refuge in churches and other building that are safe to enter. In addition, the combination of damages fro the brush fires, riots and the earthquake have caused severe damages to businesses and homes in Califomia. Residents are tallying the total. l-le~lth care: A charge against the Clinton Administration's health care czar has been brought up on account of creating a ''diffuse . and chaotic team.\ Atlanta:: Political scandal has stuck Atlanta where a fom1er city councilman and a powerful businessman were tried and convicted ofbribery, conspiracy and fraud charges. . Senator's Diaries: TI1is week a federal judge ruled that five years of Senator Packwood's personal diaries would be examined by the Senate ethics committee Football: The Dallas Cowboys and the Buffalo Bills will meet this weekend for the Super Bowl. This is the first time in the history of the Super Bowl that two teams have met in two con- secutive years. WORLD NEWS January 27, 1994, page 3 Lorrena Hobbit: A Role Model For All Women by Lara Greenberg World News Editor Its a gruesome thought, but the fact is, it has probably crossed a lot ·of our minds at one time or another. Lorrena Bobbitt actually went through with it. The Bobbitts separation was still fresh the night that John Wayne Bobbitt came home drunk from a navy reunion and forcibly raped his wife. TI1is sort of event apparently was quite frequent in the Bobbitt household. After John Wayne Bobbitt had fallen asleep, or passed out, Lorrena went into the bedroom with a large kitchen knife and cut off her husband's penis. She went running from the house, jumped into the car and sped off. She came upon a red light at an intersection and threw out the stump where it landed in a ditch. TI1e penis was later reattached and Lorrena Bobbitt was put on trial for mali- cious intent to maim her husband. Lorrena Bobbitt was acquitted on January 21 on grounds of in- sanity. 1l1e truth is, who could stay sane when each night there is a fear of unbelievable pain and torture. This idea may seem a bit antiquated, but the punishment definitely fits the crime. There was a time when a person got his/her hand cut off for stealing and a trah· tor got his/her tongue cut out for squeaJing. It is difficult to con- done a crime of such proportions, even if John Wayne deserved it, but there is no question in my mind that Lorrena just lost it one day and completely snapped. I can't help but think Lorrena Bobbitt is a kind of pioneer. She actually did what so many people have threatened to do. I can't even count how many times I've heard: \Ifhe did that I'd cut off his pe- nis\ or \I'm going to castrate him!\. A comment by an anony- mous senior girl was 'Tm just scared she is going to set a trend\. This is a legitimate fear due to the human herding instinct. All it takes is one, andthen the rest will follow suit. Hell, I'm even con- sidering it. One concerned grad11ate student said \At least it was a sharp knife\. Of course a person must ask, a woman. Maybe men will know the fear a woman feels. Maybe an abusive man will think before beating his spouse, and be scared to go to sleep at night. This might sound like the words of a bitter woman, but I am just rejoicing in the name of equality! John Wayne Bobbitt's penis was attached and is partially func- tional. It probably won't be that easy for him to get a date, but I have seen him on a number of talk \ One good thing has come out of the whole shows so he will have no fi- nancial diffi- culties. In ad- dition to the publicity he has received, Howard Stern, ordeal. A man can fi- nally feel the same kind of fear that a what gives someone the right to maim another hu- man being? To say that cutting off a man's penis is cruel and un- usual punish- woman does of rape.\ the famous ment is an understatement, but Lorrena Bobbitt was in a no win situation. Her husband was abu- sive to the point of rape, she is an immigrant, she has very little money and no family to help and support her. This is the position of a very desperate woman faced with little choice but to defend herself in the only way she knows how. Lorrena Bobbitt had no place to go and she recognized this and acted. If nothing else, one good thing has come out of this whole or- deal. A man can finally feel the . same kind of fear that a woman does of rape. A woman is in \con- stant fear of going places alone due to safety reasons. TI1e fear of rape is ever-present and has been instilled in the minds of young women everywhere. Maybe men will be able to relate to this fear on a personal level because of this incident. Maybe a man will not be as quick to rape shock jock raised 300,000 for him and to put towards his recovery. As far as I'm concerned, John Wayne can keep it all, because not all the money in the world is going to make his penis work the same again, and women are going to run from him for as long as he lives. As a little side note, John Wayne Bobbitt is currently in a paternity case in a Niagara Falls court where a women claims that he is the father of her ten year old son. John Wayne is in hot water, and there are not a lot of people who would want to be in his pants right now . Finally, it is difficult to express the huge step that Lorrena Bobbitt has made in the name of all women. I do not think that vio- lence is the answer to all prob- lems, but she got her point across loud and clear: Men, it is illegal to have sex with your wife if she is not consenting, and moreover, it is considered rape. A Nation Held Captive: 372 Days And Counting A Look Back And A Look Forward At The Clinton Administration by Sarah R. Evans Concordiensis Staff One year down, three years feft in the Clintons' co-presidency. The first year of the Clintons' presidency was full of accom- plishments. Some of his achieve- ments have benefited the country while others will only hurt the country in the long run. The Clintons economic policy during the last year has helped the American economy recover from the recession. The Clintons fought hard for a federal budget that brought lower interest rates, which makes it easier for every- one especi&lly the middle. class to finance or refinance a new home or car. The Clintons tax cut for full-time, low income workers helped the economy giving the working class a few extra dollars a week to spend; The economy has recovered under the Clintons. It is the other things that the Clintmis have done that cause alann. Health Care Reform, which was introduced at the end of Congress's 1993 session. What a farce! Hillary and Bill said dur- ing their campaign that they wanted to lower the deficit, so that future generations will not be forced to bear the brunt of past generations reckless spending. The cost to provide every Ameri- can with adequate healthcare is immense .. The Clintons say that they can accomplish this without a drastic spending increase. My butt! Health Insurance is expen- sive; that is why not everyone has it or does not have enough. The signing of NAFTA into law and rea~hing agreement on GATT were the highlight of the year. If America is going to mailltain its position as world leader then we must remain com- petitive economically. We all know that Bill Clinton has no foreign policy skills and that we will lose our position as a world mediator because Bill Clinton does not know anything and nei- ther does Warren Christopher. Some of Hillary and Bill Clinton's social reforms have been good, if you can just try to avoid healthcare refonn. TI1e Brady Bill was long over due; it is really un- necessary for anyone to own a hand gun in this country. The Brady Bill allows a five day cool- ing off period for the buyer and time for a background check of the purchaser by the police. TI1e Fam- . ily and Medical Leave Act finally shows Americans that the govem- ment supports the concept of \the family.\ Family leave allows people employed at companies with 50 or more employees to take unpaid vacation for family emer- gencies. Refonns such as the new crime bill are good and bad. It is great that congress is finally address- ing the problem of crime, but they are not addressing it in the right way. Building more prisons and toughening the laws will do noth- ing to prevent crime. People who commit crimes do so because they think that the punishment is light, if they get caught. People commit crimes, because they think that they can get away with it. In order to curb crime we must first address the roots of crime. Hiring 100,000 new police offic- ers might result in more people getting caught for their crimes, but how are we going finance these new officers, Mr. and Mrs. fiscal responsibility (a.k.a. the Clintons)? The outlook for this year is bright, if you are liberal. TI1c con- gressional session has already been billed as \the year of re- fonn.\ Health Care refonn is the number one priority for the Clintons during the upcoming session. Crime and welfare re- fonn are going to be addresses during this session of congress. All of these social refonns spell M-0-R-E- N-E-W- T-A-X-E-S to me. I keep hoping that people will wise up by November. Midtenn elections will hopefully bring more fiscal conservatives for the Clintons third year in office, so that we can once again have some sanity in Washington.

. January 27, 1994, page 4 Business 'O!lyt Olnn:Cnrbitnsis One Day, Son, You Could Be President Alex Shapiro Business Editor Have you ever had the feel- ing that nothing is as it seems and that the whole world is out to get you? Through centuries of perfecting their demonic thought control methods the members of the advertising and media community have finally succeeded in pulling the woel over our eyes and convinced us that it is silk? The other day l crossed Boston Commons. As I got closer to the woods and further away from the city lights I began oddly floating. I was gliding frictionless and sans ef- fort on a long ice puddle when I was launched into a .glowing, flowing, infinitude of timelessly rhythmic complacency. I had been thrown into the general by the particular. Through a crumpled up bag of Ultra Slim Fast Cheese Curls I transcended the physical world for just long enough to report back to you proof of our suspicion. l11e pro- paganda machine of the radical anti-fun greed\'heads is about to spring a crack. TI1e purpose of the experiment I performed is to expose that crack. TI1is experiment will investi- gate the accuracy of the claims of a well known \healthy\ cheese curl snack that they are in fact 50% lower in fat than an \indulgent\ cheese curl. Bachman Jax brand cheese curls (hereafter known as Jax) were our \indulgent\ brand, and Ultra Slim. Fast (hereafter known as USF) cheese curls were the self proclaimed took three samples of each cheese curl product and using a pellet press made them into pel- lets, each weighing approxi- mately 1.5 gm. TI1ese pellets were placed in a calorimeter crucible. We cut a short length \healthy\ snack. Di- eting con- sumers, or consumers who are ''If I swallow anything evil, stick your fingers down my throat.\ -The Who of fuse wire and con- nected it to the two elec- trodes so that it also worried --------------touched the about the health problems as• sociated with the high caloric content of fat, look to such brands as USF for a healthier snack and are being swindled. My crack team of specialists of cheese curl. Our study showed a mean presence of .27 gm of fat per gram of cheese curl. TI1is discrepancy could either be due to false advertis- ing, (lies) or error in the experi- ment. Error could be found in the relatively small number of samples that were tested. Also the experiment was timited to one bag of each )')roduct. .Per- haps if several different bags were used the cheese distribu- tion, or some other unknown variable, may have been differ- ent and the results would have shone more positively on USF. Lies! All around us lies! Enough Fries to Kill a Mule sample. The sample was then sealed into a stainless steel bomb, the bomb was filled with 25 atm oxygen, and was placed in a calorimeter. The electrodes were attached. We filled the calorimeter with exactly 2.0 li- ters of water and put on the top. The jacket temperature was set to match the temperature ofthe 2.0 liters added. Then we Who is to say the stock market isn't rigged? Things like this keep slipping by unchecked (lnd they have built up. It has got- ten to the point that it is safe to suspect that nothing anyone says, except ma,vhe c_lose friends and family, can be by Alissa Mayo Business Writer TWENTY FIVE GRAND will buy a loaded BMW 318i, a down paym~nt on a house, or 25,000 orders of French fries at Dutch Hollow .. $25,000 will also pay your tuition, room, board, and fees for one year at Union College. Union College officially cat- egorizes the costs as tuition/ fees: $17,877; room board: 5, 940; books/personal: $1,483. Many seniors have chosen to live off campus to cut costs and gain some freedom at the same time. It is the last category, however, that can most vary the cost of attending Union for a year. An independent poll ofUnion students has shown the average books and personal expenses to be anywhere from $ 200 to $2,000 more than the \official\ estimates. Although many Union College students come from higher income brackets than the national average, they are also members of the demo- graphic group with some of the greatest spending power, the so- called \Baby Busters\ or \Gen- eration X.\ Ironically, students do not spend most of their money on books. According to Bookstore Manager Eli Majlaton, each stu- dent spent an average of $120 per tenn on books. First-year students must pur- chase additional books for their preceptorial. Hence, most freshmen spend much more than the average student. The exception is with students whose majors require larger book purchases, in terms of both the number of books and their costs. In academic inter- ests such as political science, bi- ology, and engineering, stu- dents report spending closer to $300 per term on books. The largest portion of stu- dents' budgets are devoted to food, alcohol, and shopping. Students surveyed spend any- where from $1,600 to $3,500 per year on items other than books. Several students also listed road trips, telephone bills, and credit card payments as other factors of their monthly budgets. Take-out fast foods topped the list of items students are likely to purchase while at school. TI1e average students orders $23.80 of pizza, wings, subs, and other \fast foods\ per week. Freshmen who prefer delivered foods over West cite the lack of atmosphere and the taste of the standard din- ing services fare. Tyler \Tip\ Sawyer '96 says for him it'sjust a matter of diversity. \They serve the same basic thing all the time, so sometimes I like to just get something different. Some- times I'll take my girlfriend out, too.\ Sawyer, who estimates his weekly food expendihtres at $30 per week, eats everywhere from McDonald's to the Butcher Block. Upper-class shtdents are more likely to spend money on alco- hol than freshmen or sopho- mores. However, there is no difference in the amount of money spent by underage stu- dents who are able to obtain al- cohol via upper-class friends or fake i.d. 's. Only the frequency and the places of consumption vary for one age student to the next. Most students surveyed spend $30 per week on beer and other alcoholic beverages. The popularity of mail-order catalogs is also a testament of the spending power of the aver- age Union Student. Companies like J.Crew and L.L. Bean pro- vide quality products at prices low enough to tempt students to make regular purchases. Beth Lieb '97 reports placing at least one order per month to Land's End, L.L. Bean, or J.Crew. Ac- cording to Beth's estimates, she spends at least $100 per month on these orders. Men are not immune to the \shopping disease,\ however. Union students-especially men-are known to make trips to Colonie Center or Crossgates Mall in Albany to ease the hum-drum of winter in Schenectady. Compact discs, sports equipment and clothing top the lists of \non-essential\ purchases by men. Steven Marrero '94 admits that he has purchased baseball hats and clothing on a whim. He explains, \Sometimes if I find ~1e salesperson attractive I'll buy whatever anyway, 'cause I feel bad ifl waste their time.\ (Marrero even admits that the shirt he was wearing during the interview was purchased be- cause he thought the salesgirl was cute.) All told, students surveyed said they spent about $150 on clothing per purchase, but without definitive regular- ity. Telephone bills and credit card payments are also regular expenses which students incur. While the telecommunications office could not provide a solid estimate of the average student's monthly phone bill, students surveyed place any- where from $10 to $150 in long distance phone calls per month. Moderate smokers (four packs per week) should figure in another $300 per school year, and anyone inclined to make a road trip to New York or Boston can plan on at least $50 for tolls and gas. TI1e av- erage student's expenditures per term add up to $1,1 70 (that's $210 for the phone, $240 for food, $300 for clothes, $300 for alcohol, and $120 for books), or roughly $3,500 for the year. It's a far cry from $1,483. TI1en again, at a place where Snapple can be purchased with Validine fot $1.40 but costs $1 .06 when one pays in cash, is life ever normal, logical, or \average\? . . burned the sample and recorded the increase in temperature of the water. Boom! Using a plethora of proven scientific for- mulas and statistical analyses we determined whether the means of the fat content per gram in the two sets were sig- nificantly different. For caloric content, in stats' talk. t=.36, 4 d.f., P>.5. therefore there can- not be said to be a statistically significant difference in the ca- loric content of Jax and USF. For fat content per gram. t=.44, 4 d.f., P>.5, therefore there can- not be said that there is a statis- tically significant difference in the fat content of Jax and USF. The results have shown that there can be said to be a signifi· cant difference between neither the caloric content of Jax and USF nor the fat content per J:,'Tam of the two. This runs contrary to the USF claim on it's bag that it has 50% the fat of regular brands. Also, USF claims to have only .11 gm of fat per gram trusted. ' We can jump from the spe- cific to the general. Look through the concrete to experi• cnce the ethereal. Through this crack, this foothold, we witness the great river of lies in which we are but stones. Stones gen- tly being wom away and made smooth, shaped by the mind- numbing totTent of massc~nedia schlock until we break down to sand. TI1e moral of this article is that the world is a sick place andtrust is net a virtue that can be applied·to health food cheese curls. So, we do live in the waste- lands. Do whatever you want, whatever feels good, because who is to say that it isn't what's right. As long as the sun still shines and the GE sign still glows. tomorrow always comes. Who knows, maybe you 'II be President. 3 or 4 Bedroom Apartments Available 1994-95 - Modernized Throughout - One Year Lease Includes All Appliances - Off Street parking - w/w carpet -negotiable 370-5498 (leave message anytime) 347-2644 (evenings after 7:30p.m.) ( F A A v fl ) 11 11 .( E I c .( ( r I 1 '

Arts & Entertainment January 27, 1994, Page 5 The Art of Chinese Brush Painting Courtesy of The Asian Student Union The Asian Student Union pre- sents Leigh Li-Yun Wen, Chinese Painter on Thursday, January 27, 1994, 7:00pm in the College Cen- ter Auditorium. Ms. Wen will lecture and demonstrate the art of traditional Chinese bmsh painting which will include audience par- ticipation. TI1is event is in cel- ebration of Asian Awarenes·s Week. Ms. Wen holds a Diploma in Fine Arts from National Taiwan Academy of Arts; a B.A. in Fine Arts from Washington State Uni- versity and her M.A. in Fine Arts _from the State University of New York at Albany. She has won numerous painting awards, most 'notably, the selection as one of the Ten Outstanding Young Talents in Taiwan in 1979 and Outstanding Merit in Young Art in A:lia Now Competition in 1980. Ms. Wen has had extensive teaching expe- rience in both oil and Chinese painting. She has taught at the Taipei Medical College, National Taiwan University, PasadenaCity College, and locally at the Schenectady Museum, Albany Institute of History and Art, and Rensselaer County Council for the Arts. Her work has been exhib- ited locally and internationally. Chinese painting involves working with bamboo brush, ink, color, and water on rice paper or silk. A painter must intimately understand the relationship be- tween brush, paper, ink and wa- ter, and master the techniques to effectively en'lploy them in a Ms. Wen specializes in the con- temporary style of Chinese paint- ings which pays greater attention to the overall composition, per- spective, texture, color, and light- ing, than the traditional syle. Subjects of her paintings are drawn from the daily experience - people, vegetable, flower, still-lives, and landscape.scenery. But her work transcends the lit- eral images through her dramatic brush strokes, running contatir lines based on Chinese calligra- phy, large quantities of white space, sharp contnst of lighting, striking blend of color, and rich texture. Her work is a unique combination of oriental abstrac- tion and western precision. She has drawn from many local sights, especially in the Adirondacks, as subjects o(her work. Alan Gussow Speaks on Art in Post-Nuclear Age by Pam Novell Co11tributing Writer Sponsored by the Minerva Committee and the Walter G. Baker Endowment. on January 19, 1994 the Department of Vi- sual At1s presented Alan Gussow in a talk titled \The Function of Ati in the Post - Nuclear Age.\ Gussow is an art activist, environ- mentalist. and author. As a painter. he has had fm1y solo ex- hibitions and his work is included in thirteen museums and public collections including the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Wash- ington, D.C., the Portland (Maine) Museum of Art and the National Museum in Udine, Italy. Alan Gussow recently pub- lished a book titled 'l11e Arlist as Natil·e: Reill1'enting Regionallw11. This book includes paintings by fifty-three contemporary artists who honor a bond to the places which they live and work. In ad- dition to reproduc.tions of their paintings, the miists comment 011 their communities, their work and the process of becoming native to a regiot1. A member of Union's Visual Arts Department, Profes- sor Walter Hatke is one of the many artists represented in Gussow's book. The paintii1gs are part of a traveling exhibiton and can currently be viewed at the Albany Institute of History and Art through March 6, 1994. In his lecture at Union, Gussow discussed several of his projects, one of which included the \Inter- national Shadow Project.\ Taking place for the first time in 1985, the purpose of the project was to com- memorate the bombing of Hiroshima by creating shadows on the streets. The shadows ranged from children to birds - any- thing af- fected by the bombing. 15,000 people worldwide participated proving the \International Shadow Project\ to be a huge suc- cess. Encouraging involvement, Gussow;s projects allow people to leam and give of themselves as they create art which has a per- sonal and long tenn affect. Through his slide presentation and videos used during the talk, it was apparent that anyone who has had the opportunity to work with Alan Gussow will never for- get him or their ex- perience. He cre- ates a sense of hope, in- spiration and peace for those involved as well as those ob- serving. Described by the NY Times, as \Artist in R e s i - dence for Mother Earth,\ Gussow's ideas and views are very touching and ex- tremely creative. Alan Gussow is a man of true admiration as he constantly works to strengthen the bond between nature and man. Ellen Sinopoli Dance Company presents a concert at The Performing Arts Center January 28th 8:00PM. Gay, Lesbian, and Bisexual Alliance For More Information Contact Box 613 or Come to Our Meetings on Mondays 10 PM CC 203

January 27, 1994, Page 6 Arts & Entertainment ''Big Dyke'' Gets Big Laughs by Richard F. Baker Contributing Writer Lea DeLaria, the self pro- claimed \Big Dyke\ comedienne on tl1e lesbian community, graced the stage of Page Hall of SUNY- Albany on this past Saturday to give 'One of her high energy, no holds-barred comedy/jazz shows. I had never seen Lea in person before but I was definitely enter- tained and, at times, shocked by her bawdy joke and stage antics. Lea began her act by comment- ing on the great year she had as a lesbian performer, which included appearing in the Arseni.o Hall Show and Comic Strip Live. Be- yond her own personal success as a comedienne, she added that 1993 was a great year to be out because lesbians are gaining !:,tround in every field. In order to promote unity in the audience, Lea made all the men \honorary les- bians,\ and asked us to proclaim \I am a lesbian!\ Although her brand of humor is aimed at les- bian life, I found myself laugh- ing out loud with every joke and show and made everyone laugh at themselves, which I .feel is the mark of any great comedianor co- medienne. In addition to her com- edy routine, she wowed us with stage antic, she per- formed. Her jokes are neither polite nor clean, not something \The most hilarious moment- a demonstration of what to do with a particular lesbian sex toy.\ her skills as a jazz per- fanner. Her showwasin- ·te.rspersed with songs from her re- cent album, you would repeat at the dinner table with Mom and Dad. She touched on the trials of lesbian dating or lack thereof and gave, which I felt was the most hilari- ous moment, a demonstration of what to do with a particular Jes- biaB sex toy. Although some might cringe at her performance because of its honesty, she was a master at making the audience apart of the \Buldyke in a China Shop.\ I guess what I liked m0stabout Lea was her willingNess to f'J0kefun at every aspect oflesbian life and not care who she offended in the pro- cess. Before leaving us, she an- nounced that she had won a recur- ring role on the NBC comedy, \'l11e John Lauoqttette Show.\ as a lesbian bartender. Keep you eyes on Lea. She is definitely a star in the making. Local Arts and Entertainment Calendar FRIDA V, JANUARY 28 THE ARTIST AS NATIVE: Reinventing Regionalism: 12:15 p.m. Albany Insti- tute of History 7 Art, Albany, 463-4468. Free. COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: \Cool Runnings\ 8 & I 0 p.m., $2. ELLEN SINOPOLI DANCE CO.: 8 p.m .. Perfonning Arts Studio, Union Col- lege, Schenectady. 388-620 I. SATURDAY. JANUARY 29 CAPITAL CHAMBER ARTISTS: Celebrate Mozart's birthday. $12, $8/students. Doane Stuart School, Albany. 458-9231. , A CERTAIN LEVEL OF DENIAL: Karen Finley, makes her Capital Region debut with her latest work about male domination, indifference to AIDS, and other social injustices with a raw poetic power. $20. 8 p.m .. Empire Center, The Egg, Albany. 473-1845, COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: see Friday, January 28. LONDON WAINWRIGHT ILL: Will be perfonning tunes from his recent album History . . $5/students, $1 0/at door & general public. 8 p.m .. RPI McNeil Room, Troy. 276-6505. SUNDAY. JANUARY 30 THE BOUNDARIES OF OUR TIME: Caspar David Friedrich: A closer look at landscape painters. Albany Institute of History & Art. 2 p.m .. $1.50/students, $3 general. 125 Washington Ave., Al- bany. 463-4478. COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: see Friday, January 28. EMPIRE STATE REPERTORY ORCHESTRA: 3 p.m .. Uni011 College Memo- rial Chapel, Schenectady. 370-6000 MUSIC IN THE CATHEDRAL: Organ recital. 4:30p.m .. Cathedral of All Saints, Albany. 436-0543. Free MONDA V, JANUARY 3 t COLLEGE CENTER AUD. FILM: see Friday, January 28. FACUL TV RECITAL: Paul Evoskevich. Bonnie Griesmer, Dennis Hohnstpn, Tony Sano and Lee Shaw will display their talents. 8 p.m .. St. Joseph Hall Aud., College ofSt.Rose Albany. 454-5195. Free. W:EDNESDA Y. F.EBRUARY 2 SCHOLARS OF LONDON: Five hundred years of song with a vocal quartet from London. $13, $6/students. 8 p.m .. Emma Willard School, Troy. 273-8135. THURSDAY. FEBRUAR\'3 MADAME BUTTERFLY: The trag!c story of a young Japanese geisha who be- cOJnes trapped between two worlds. Sung i11 Italian with English subtitles. $35.50- $25.50 Proctor's Theatre, Schenectady. 382-3884. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 4 STEEL MAGNOLIAS: 8:15p.m .. $14~$12. Homemade Theater, Saratoga Springs. 587-4427. . CONTINUOUS EXHIBITS: JANUARY 21- MAY 29 THE GURLEY SMART COLLECTION: Historic survey-. ing Instruments featured. New York State Museum in Albany. 474-. 1201 FEBRUAR\' 5-MAY 15 WORKING WITH TRADITION: The A¢ademic Artist: SUNY artists. New York State Museum in Albany. 474-1201 JANUARY 20- FEBRUARY 6. PHOTOGRAPHS OF CHINA.: Four Chinese photogra- phers. Union CoHege, Arts Building, 2nd floor photo gallery. 388- 6201. .. , THROUGH FEBRUARY 6 LEGACY OF THOMAS COLE: Selections from the Permanent Collection:Aibany Institute of History and Art. Albany. 463-4478. THROUGH FEBRUARY 6 MARTIN BENJAMIN AND SANDY WIMER: Photographs and prints. Union College, Schenectday. 388-620 I . JANUARY 22 -JULY 8 SELLING THE GOODS: Products and advertising in Albany. Albany hl-, stitute of History & Art, Albany. 464-44 78. Compiled by Suzanne Robinson/Concordiensis Staff ~ . T1 D si al' -1 D T4 w fi: ar -1 T4 B1 G Y< gr lo T< w ge so se L< \( ha - l Tc }:;L ne -T w S\ l'\1 bu at an ta dn Tc Lc kn Li Lc reJ w SG su w w N< H~ w ag the Cl inJ n B~ m: SJ sk R~i w wl w to AI pa me

Personals To the Brothers of TDChi The Drinks were delicious, The Mu- sic was great, Let's so it again on another date. -The sisters and pledges of Delta Delta Delta To the Brothers ofDU off the luge we did shots, We all caught the fish -NOT!! And your brothers are hof! -The Sisters of Tri-Delt To the Sisters of Gamma Phi Beta, Sigma Delta Tau and Delta Gamma - Congratulations on your new match-bids! Have a great time. love, The Sisters of Tri-Delt To the me Tri-Delta Pledges, We are so psyched to have you get ready for lots of fun, you'll soon come to know, Tri-Delts second to none! Love, the sisters ofTri-Delt <1>1'18 \Oh what a night...\ Thanks! We had a blast - The sisters and pledges of 11r To the sisters of 1'11'11'1, f<l>B, a.vo ~t-.. T. Congratulations on your new pledges! -The Sisters of 11r WANTED: SWF for friendship, maybe more. I've got my tux. I'll spend the bucks. We'll have time to share at the Winter Affair! Send photo and resume to Box 2577. Address to the resident neurotic slave driver. To the residents of the Congo Lounge: I just want you all to know I wanted to be a basement Liaison. Am I not cool enough? Love, one of your political · refugees WANTED: Some tendemess from a summertime friend. Dear Elephant Juice - I hope we can dance to higher spirits for the rest of the tenn. WANTED: Wann ,guy to cuddle and hold. No special requirement! Have any friends in Boson? Want to Ballroom Dance against some of the members of the Harvard Ballroom Dancing Club? Call x6818 for more infonnation. Thanks to all those sexy Ballroom Dancers who made my evening. SJM seeking SJF who enjoys skinny skiing, TV and VCR Repair, Mud Wrestling, Wearing Latex. Photo and white blood count optional. Write to Box 2577, and address to MR. Vain. AEF in search of chemistry partner. To find out what letters mean contact the turtle lover. · Congratulations Il.A's. We love you all! -The sisters of t-..r Congratulations to all the 1994 matched bids of Delta Delta Delta, Delta Gamma, and Sigma Delta Tau. Love, the sisters of Gamma Phi Beta To the matched bids of gamma phi: Congratulations! You're the Best! Love, the Gamma Phi beta sis~ ters to the Brothers ofDelta Phi and the members of \Bogart\. Thanks for helping to celebrate ourmatchedbids. Wehadablast as usual! Love, the Gamma Phi's Happy 21st, Eric Bulson Love, Talley To my blind date, I really look- ing forward to our meeting Valentine's Day weekend. Hope everything goeswell before then. This is the extent of my influ- ence. Love, Union To Brandon -.Just a note to sa):' hello and hop.;:ym1have a happy day. Love, Nicole Sing Davey-Sing Sing a song, sing out loud. sing out strong. It doesn't matter if you're not good enough for ev- eryone else to hear .. just sing .. a song. -Linda Hey Jiii- Happ .. only 50~omething days left!!! .. and by the way, you're doing very well. these days. Concordi Office Seeks writers for Science and Health Section. No, Bio Major Required. Contact the Science and Health Editor at Box 2577. WANTED: Savant on clothing, who can tell me why none of my jeans fit. TOIBWASH. David- Cheer up, I care! - love, your partner in crime. WELOVE YOU!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! ISO short woman of darker shade to go to the winter fonnal with. - TOIBWRH To the Procrastinator - No Tension!!!!!!!!! A long, long time ago. Did you write the book of love?, Helter Skelter in a summer swelter, I went down to the sacred store. I'll sing it for you anytime, as long as there's no one around. Love, H. _Yirgirtia - I'm writing this to you because you forgot to give me your great personals, and because I love you. No more tension allowed. Love and Peace shall rain, states the basement political refugee. It's Valentine's day soon. Campus News Classifieds ., BABYSITTER wanted for Tod- dler. Monday and Friday required. Avg. 10 hrs./wk. Car needed. Ask for Pamela. 371-1424. Share my palais royale .... 2 bedroom apartment, 1 ~nd a half blocks from campus. Off st.. parking, clean, safe. $155/ mo.+ utilities and long distance .. Security, lease. 347-2937. Hispanic Outreack Services seeks Union students in develop- ment of mentoring and tutoring program. Any amount of time would be helpful! For further· info. feel free to contact Joe Kotrigbt-Gonzalez at the CDC. x6l76. January 27, 1994, Page 7 $700/wk. canneries; $4500/mo. deckhands. Alaska summer fisheries now hiring. Employ- ment Alaska 1-206-323-2672 .. Summer Job For Jcc Camp Kngswood On-Campus Interviews Febmary 22nd Sign up in Career Development Center First come, first serve basis. Union College Tour Guide Are you outgoing, upbeat,. and excited about Union? Would you like to learn more about your college? Do you enjoy meeting new people? Apply now to become a tour guide (aka the Gatekeeper Honorary Society) Applications are available in the Admissions Office. Deadline is Wednesday, Feb. 2nd. Do You Desire an Authentic Experience of Diversity? Do you Seek a Greater Appreciation of Various Spiri- tual, Sacred, and Religious Traditions, including you own? Become Part of an Effort to Create an innova- tive, Alternative Communi~y at Union College -an- INTERFAITH .RESIDENCE HALL for more itiformation, call or drop by the Campus Protestant Ministry Office Religious Programs- ,. Silliman Hall- (518) 388-6618 27 Jan - 2 Feb 1994 Jan 27 • Thursday 5:00 PM Arts: Ballroom Dancing 10:00 AM -3pm Registration for Snow Sculpture Intermediate \ @(I: 7:00 PM Women's B'Ball v. Albany 10:00 AM -3pm Winter Affair Tickets on sale @CC 8:00 PM & 10:00, SS016: Strictly Ballroom Jan 28 • Friday 6:00 PM CC Atrium: Asian Culinary Expose' 10:00 AM -3pm Registration for Snow Sculpture 8:00 PM &10:00, CCAud: Cool Runnings @(C 8:00PM PAS - Ellen Sinopoli Dance 10:00 AM -3pm Winter Affair Tickets on sale @CC Company Jan 29 - Saturday 2:00 PM CCAUD: Kids' Showing of \Cool Runnings\ . 2:00 PM Men's Swimming v. Hamilton Jan 30 • Sunday 5:30 PM Chets: Superbowl Party 8:00 PM &10:00, CCAud: Cool Runnings Jan 31 • Monday Alcohol Awareness Week 10:00 AM -3pm Registration for Snow Sculpture @X): Feb 1 • Tuesday 10:00 AM -3pm Registration for Snow Sculpture @(C 9:00 PM -12:00 AM Coffeehouse @ Fero Feb 2 - Wednesday 7:00 PM Women's B'Ball v. Middlebury 8:00PM -1:00 AM Chet's 9:00PM CHET'S 80's NIGHT 2:00 PM Women's Swimming v. Hamilton 8:00 PM &10:00, CCAud: Cool Runnings 9:00 PM -12:00 AM Coffeehouse @ Fero 6:00 PM Arts: Ballroom Dancing Beginners 8:00PM &10:00, CCAud: Cool Runnings 10:00 PM CHETS: BLACK HISTORY MONTH PARTY Current as of 1/21/93. Published by the Office of .Student Activities. Remember to schedule all events through the Office of Events, x6098.

January 27, 1994, page 8 Science and Health The End of Global Warming: Is It Near? by Kenni Lee Science & Healtll Editor l11e idea of global wanning has been circulating since 1958 when scientists first measured the ac- cumulation carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. In the mid to late 1980's this phenomena exploded into a world dilemma. The green- house effect became a household word and people were worried about future climate changes and the idea that the ice in Antarctica might melt and flood land masses. Scientists are now easing the scare associated with global wanning by reporting that the car- bon dioxide levels in the atmo- sphere at this time are decreasing and have been since the eruption ofMount Pinatubo in the Philip- pines in 1991. Scientists are now speculating about what caused this sudden decrease and whether or not it continue. Scientists are presently trying to find out what caused this decrease so in the process they are elimi- nating, as well as adding new ideas to their list everyday. A. known fact is that a decrease in the burning of fossil fuel did not cause this fall in carbon dioxide levels, because the trend has been just the opposite. Suggestions that have surfaced, which are now being studied include the eruption GLOBAL WARMING of Mount Pinatubo, the ratio of cer:bon 12 to carbon 13 and the emission of oxygen into the atrno- sphere. The eruption only holds ground because it occurredatthe same time as this downward trend began. The latter two ideas have been researched, but opp0S- ing results have been discovered which brings the scientists back tophase 1. A major factor thrown into this, is that the atJnosphere at the present time does not support a downward trend in global warm- ing, in fact one would expect the carbon dioxide 1 evels to increase, because the atmosphere is in the middle of an El Nino. An El Nino is a shift in the circulation of trade win.ds over the pacific ocean,. which in the past have cause.d carbon dioxide levels to increase faster than at any other time. This means that the cause of this decrease overpowers the effect of the El Nino. Research and debate continues on the cause of this shift in car- bon dioxide levels whether it be from the eruption of Mount Pinatubo or from global cooling nobody knows, but if temperature comes back to nonnal this year it is safe to say that carbon dioxide levels will again begin to rise. Source:· Scientific American February 1994. Curing Deafness ... What?? The End of • The Root Canal by Andy Salama Science and Healtlt Editor In the past few years a new genre of pollution has come into the spot light. Noise pollution, common in large metropolitan ar- eas often exceeds allowable lim- its. Construction equipment, trains, and music can generate so much sound that they do irrevers- ible damage to the ear, causing deafuess. The target organ of the body is the cochlea which is lo- cated in the inner ear. Sound is heard when sound waves travel through the ear canal to the ear drum. The vibrations which are passed on to the tympanic mem- brane are then passed to the fluid filled cochlea. These vibrations cause tiny structures called hair cells to vibrate which in turn stimulate the auditory nerve. Hair cells are rather fragile, any sound larger than 120 decibels can cause so much trauma that hair cells detach from their cellular foun- dation. Other causes of deafuess include the use of certain antibi- otics, chemotherapy drugs, and diseases such as meningitis. Up until now the only cure for partial deafness has been the use of externally or internally placed hearing aids which amplify sound. These devices however cannot restore normal hearing. More than ten years ago it was discovered that amphibians and cal derivative of vitamin A, new sharks regenerate hairs through- hair cells regenerated in less than out theirs lives. Birds are capable one week. Retinoic acid is re- of generating new hair cells, but .sponsible for differentiation of only after stress has been induced. many cells in embryonic devel- Humans, or mammals for that opment. One of the major im- by Andy Salama Scie11ce & Healtlt Editor fact,havenotbeen abletodothfs. .pas~~s ofthis research is getting The tenn alone elicits pain, Recent experiments suggest that · new, immature cells to grow to and anyone who has ever had a some rodents can regenerate hairs· the,·proper size and to attach to root canal knows how unpleas- cells. When guinea pigs were the nerve. The regeneration of ant .and e?cpensive they can be. exposed to high levels of the an.:.. hair celts depends on two events; When tooth decay or serious tibiotic, gentamycin hairs cells ·· 2 ·;the destruction old hair cells and ~ ·. trauma punches a hole through were subsequently killed in a por- the stimulus to encourage new the hard mineralized layers of tion of the inner ear. Approxi- !,rrowth. The problem is that rna- enamel and dentin ofa tooth, the mately 5 weeks later immature ture mammals may not be pulp becomes exposed. The hair cells began to grow. Similar adapted to receive the stimulus pulp is the vascular and nervous experiments were performed in necessary for new growth. system of t11e tooth. Exposed k. iC. u_ ,,, _. . ..., OH RETINOIC ACID culture with inner ear cells of a guinea pig and a 50 year-old 1m- man with almost identical results. It was hypothesized that when the hair cells were destroyed neigh- boring cells differentiated into immature hair cells. Another study using cells from rat pups yielded opposing results to the guinea pig experiment. However, when the cells were treated with retinoic acid, a chemi- l11ere are other options for cur- ing deafness on the drawing board. Researchers have been looking into gene therapy which could control growth in the inner ear. Another option may be to implant immature cells into the ear to in- duce new growth ofhaircells. For now the only options are hearing aids and cochlear implants which both operate in a similar manner. nerves can be overexcited, and swelling c~p, oecur due to easily obtained infections. If the de- cay or infection of the pulp of is too deep, the infected tooth must be pulled. However if the infec- tion has only effected the top portion of the pulp, the tooth can be saved by the modem day root canal. Typically the living pulp· of the tooth is suctioned out and replaced by gutta percha (they used to make golf balls out of this stuff) , a rubber like sub- stance, which kills the tooth but allows the skeleton of the tooth. to remain. The tooth is then capped with an amalgam 'filling or a ceramic composite. shown in laboratory m1imals to stimlllate bone growth when ap- plied to broken bones. An experiment was conducted in which artificial abscesses were drilled in to the teeth of labora- tory monkeys and then treated with collagen, and a mixture of collagen and the OP-1 protein. When the teeth were harvestedfor the results, the collagen treated teeth indicated marginal regrowth of dentin which covered the priorly exposed pulp. The den- tin which regrew was soft anddid not protect the pulp sufficiently. The collagen/OP-l composite promoted growth· of new layers of dentin thick enough to protect pulp from infection. The mechanism of the OP-1 protein is not known. Research- . ers have found that the new den- tin differs from natural dentin. Nonnal dentin is porous and rich with fluid fillt:d canals. OP-1 pro- moted dentin is \amorphous\ and is more solid. This may actually be to the advantage of the patient in that there is less chance for in- fection. Biology Majors Meeting Biomolecules. a researc.h company, has a less painful and less drastic altemative for cases where the pulp is only minimally damaged. The newly developed technique utilizes a human pro- tein, Human Osteogenic Protein(OP-1) which has been R. Bruce Rutherford at the Uni- versity of Michigan Dental School has recently applied for a National Institute ofHealth(NIH) to reveal how OP-1 works. The FDA has approved trial testing of the new product on 40 human pa- tients. With a price tag of under $1000, the new treatment may provide relief from pain and bankruptcy.' by Kenny Lee Science & H ealtlt Editor On Monday, January 24th the biology department held it's sec- ond meeting of the year for pro- spective biology majors. On the agenda were topics such as re- search, biology club functions and professional school. Chair- man Twitty Styles opened the meeting by introducing and wel- coming Professor Steve Horton, his wife Gail and Sue Knight as new members of the department. Professor Horton teaches Genet- ics and Molecular Biology, his wife is doing work with Profes- sor Leo Fleichmann, and Sue Knight is the new laboratory technician. Professor Styles then turned the meeting over to the ijiolot,ry club officers who talked about future plans which include a trip to the Schenectady Plan- etarium on Saturday February 5th and a trip to Provincetown, Mas- sachusetts for the annual whale watch at the end of April. To find out more about these trips just stop by the Biolot,ry office. Professor Tobiesson then spoke about Graduate schools and the process that you go about when applying in the fall tenn of your senior year. He emphasized that one should start thinking about professional school as early as your freshman and sophomore year. Matt Grabowski, a senior biology ma- jor, then spoke a little about medi- cal school and the fact that if you work hard enough it will show and you will get into medical school. Professor John Boyer then spoke on the curriculum for the spring term and for next year. He stressed that a big plus about next year was that no faculty was go- ing on a full year sabbatical, but said that budget cuts may lead to less than a full course listing. 111e meeting ended with Professor Jill Salvo talking about research op- portunities in not only Biology, but Chemistry and PhysiGs as ~ell. She stated that many opportuni- ties are available around the coun- try for summer research; but the deadlines are approaching and some have already passed. List- ings of research opportunities are available in the Biology office as well as in front .of the Chemistry office. ·\. ( ...... ·-·; . ;>:.1~ ..... •, \· '.;,_ ·- .•:\t:l~~:·~~:.. U-Med Union College First Aid Squad is offering CPR classes February 5th For more info. call Brian.;. 6876 Sethu 6963

Thursdav. Feb. 3 • 5 pm : Buffet Dinner @ Upperclass (use validine) 7 pm : Garnet Minstrels,, Dutch Pipers, Gospel En- semble @ Memor,ial Chapel 9:30 p~m : Mountebanks Cabaret I@ Chet's Fridav. Feb. 4 • U- 4 pm : TGIF @ Chet's; 5-6 Chuck Rodman '95, piano 5:30pm : JSU Semi-Formal Dinner. RSVP Adam Schwartz X5691 7:30 pm : Union v. Clarkson Hockey 10:30 pm : Comedians @ CC Atrium Saturdav. Feb. 5 . ..- ' . am : Outing Club - Ameri- can Cancer Associat.ion Cross-Country Ski--a-thon. Contact Jeff Nebolini 372- 5078 for info. 1 pm : Union v. St. Lawrenc·e Men's & Women's · Swimming Winterfest Weekend January 27, 1994, page 9 3-6 1-3 pm : Snow Sculpture Contest. Register and place bets Jan. 26-Feb 2 @ CC. 3 pm- 4 pm : Ben & Jerry's Ice Cream Social. Hot chocolate, etc @ CC. 4 pm : Union v. Nazareth Basketball 7 pm : Union v. St. Lawrence Hockey 10-2 pm : A Winter Affair @ Ramada. Buy tickets Jan. 24-28@ cc. Sundav. Feb. 6 • 4-7 -pm : WRUC live broad- cast of \The Sleepy Chicken Show\ (the tunes of the '80s) from the first floor CC. 7:30 pm : Jazz Ensemble Concert@ Chet's; Protestant Ministry Service @ Old Chapel Newman Club Service @St. John's 9 pm : Mountebanks Caba- ret II @ Chet's Alcohol-free Social Alternatives for Winteifest Weekend SUPERBOWL PARTY BUFFALO BILLS vs. DALLAS COWBOYS AT CHET'S SUNDAY, JAN. 30 5:30PM LARGE SCREEN TVS FREE SOFT DRINKS. & SNACKS 10¢ WINGS THE BAR WILL BE OPEN! SUPERBOWL SPECIAL DEAL# t 24-cut cheese pizza 50 wings 3 Liters of Coke $36.64 value for only $32.50 DEAL# 2 1 2-cu t cheese pizza 30 wings 2 Liters of Coke $22.46 value for $19.50 HOURS : Sunday-:- Thursday 11 AM - 1 AM Friday & Saturday 1 t AM- 2 AM 370-3928 FREE DELIVERY ..

January 27, 1994, page 10 Snow,Snow Go Away Winter is back in full swing again, and even Monday's jour-· ney into double-digit temperatures cannot take us away from the fact that there are still two more months to endure winter, that is not an excuse for the poor jobs done to maintain our roads and paths. When snow falls and temperatures drop, students' active . lives are interrupted as, with winter weather, we are forced to contend with our usual daily problems plus a loss of heat in buildings, the chance of catching colds, and so on. So when the big snowfaU. hits, it should only be expected that steps· will be taken to ensure that the daily operations of a busy . campus are not delayed by bad weather. Wrong! Last week, a huge snowfall was dumped on us. The next day, the sl:ln was shining, no clouds drifted in the sky, and the temperature climbed to a level somewhat tolerable. One would assume, upon stepping outside, as the weather had cleared and the forecast did not call for anymore snow in the immediate fu- ture, campus operations would make sure every path and lane was cleared for pedestrians and cars alike. It was not until late the following afternoon that the walk- way from Fox to Davidson was plowed, and even then, it· seemed that a truck merely \drove over\ the snow. While the major driveways were plowed by mid-morning, most ~tudent paths which are frequently used never saw the plow or shovel . until about an hour before the next snowfall hit; a11 in all when the plow trucks finally started their engines, they were · simply too late. Is it really hard to clean away the snow so that people's lives may be made a little more easy in this already annoying · weather? Cutbacks are a poor excuse for such a slow response time because workers can be seen holding shovels or driving cars around campus all day, but not doing any real clean-up .. Winter is not a time of joy for many, but it can be easier to I . bear with the help of an effective maintenance team. Just as basement dor~.s perfectly simulate conditi()nS in the Arctic I region, and it takes maintenance crews over two weeks to \claim they've done something about it, the paths on which we walk are a reminder that winter is.a bitter time for aiJ·of us. <(i[ly.e (!Innrnrni.ensis Tile Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 David Levine Editor-in-Chief Executive Editor News Editors Features Editors Arts Editors Sports Editor Layout Editor Copy Editor Photo Editor News Analysis Editor World News Editors Opinions Editor Science & Health Editors Business Editors Environmental Editor Advertising Editors Associate Photo Editor Associate Sports Editors Associate News Editor Associate Editor Computer Manager Faculty Adviser Photographers . Deb Mcinerney Caroline Paine, Matt Karlyn Erin O'Neil, Alexis Leist Belinda Crago, Niki Goldin Talley Belsinger Dagan La Corte LisaLemoi Heather Re:Ynolds Josh Haines Veronica Rogers Lara Greenberg, Craig Greenberg Sarah Evans Andy Salama, Kenny Lee Dylan Ratigan, Alex Shapiro Eric Habib Sharon Smith, Fran Goldstein Scott Steele Joe Saltzbart Lee Schachter, Greg Kalish Alex Kreisler David Fischer Brett Saunders Scott Scullion Scott Druckemiller, Emily Schrier Jeremy Smith, Michele Roseman Staff: Bruno Benzaquen, Thor Benander, Elizabeth De Koven Michelle Ellis, Alexandra Gualpa, Eric Habib, John Huang, Mike Leding, Alissa Mayo, Alexis Leist, Pam Lin, Bharat Navani, Mike Nelson, Larry Paska, Karen Pepiatt, Craig Pike, William Rice, Suzanne Robinson, Michelle Rosenbaum, Alex Shapiro, Shveta Srivastava, Rawson Thurber. The Concordiensis meets every Monday and Tuesday of the aca- demic year. It is published by the students of Union College. OP-ED a!q~ <nnncn:rbiensis Opinions-Letters~. ------ Chet's : Yet An~ther Misappropriation think that the five other people there enjoyed themselves too. $16;000 to renovate a bar that very few people use: During the · ·· ·uy-Matt ;\. ·K:a·rtyn News Editor debate on this issue I told the stu- dent forum that before going ahead and making these changes we should see how CHET'S does financially in both the Fall and Winter terms considering last year was financially devastating for the pub and Dining Services. \No no, no\ they said, \we should make changes now so that necessary spending (i.e.: CHET' S) when students can only use 25% cotton paper in the CHUC room because the laser printers are old and tired; when computers used by students around campus are outdated; when the library (although soon to be renovated) has fewer vol- umes, many of which are out- dated; than other' colleges of Union's size? Should we spend our money sponsoring speakers, buying new computers, purchas- ing new desks for classroom use (a professor was recently telling me that she was unable to get five additional desks for her class- room 'because there are simply not enough of them to go around), bringing new books and periodi- cals to the library, updating tech- nological equipment and invest- ing in our future? Or, should we spend it on CHET'S etc ... ??? On the other hand, as I am specifi- cally speaking of student activi- ties funds, Ie('s sponsor more clubs and social alternatives that Last Tuesday, I was leisurely sitting in the College Center read- ing the newspaper when I noticed a delivery- man bringing new bar stools jnto CHET'S pub-· yes, new bar stools to replace the prac- tically.new ones that were already there. Does anyone realize that this Colle~e is in the midst of bud• getary crisis???? Last term the student forum, of which I am a member, voted to spend in excess of$16,000 onCHET'S. I eagerly joined two other student forum members and voted against the moti?n .. Need~ess to say, the mo- tion passed and as a result we have . an aH new and much improved CHET'S. That's good news for the 1 0 or so people who go there on the two evenings a week that it is open, but it really does not add much to anyone • s educational experience. No, I'm not saying that the only purpose of us being here is to go to class, take exams, write a thesis and graduate. As many of you will agree, our so- cial lives are important and social alternatives are still very much needed. However, the College is financially ill and the President is being forced to remove millions of dollars from the budget, the results of which many of us have experienced or will soon experi- ence. For example, The Dutch Hollow now closes at 11 :OOpm, IEF funds are being frozen, the terni in Brazil has been canceled, arrival of new athletic equipment has been delayed and soon class sizes will increase as the size of our faculty is reduced. Yet, the students on the Forum (and all stu- dents for that matter, as they are your representatives) feel that we can easily justify spending $16,000+ on CHET'S! !!??? I was at CHET'S a few evenings ago to wat~h Seinfeld (quite possibly the \Hey if I get tired of looking to the· right I also have the option of looking behind me and guess what, another TV. Necessary Spending??? Whatever.\ more people will go there.'' Their reasoning has yet to be proven correct. This is not to say that the bar doesn't look nice. It does. I especially like the two T.V.'s above the bar. If I get tired of looking to the left I can simply tum my head to the right and keep on watching. Hey, If I get tired oflooking to the right I also haye the option of looking behind me and guess what, another T.V. Necessary spending??? What- ever. greatest sit-com ever to come to . I think it is time to start reevalu· television) with a couple of ating how we spend mon·ey at friends. I enjoyed myself. I also Union. How can we justify un· Correction: Last Week's editorial was remissed in indicating that Student Activities is responsible . . for the appropriation of funds to student clubs. . The Finance Committee and the Student Forum • are wholly responsible for club budgets. have worked in the past. For ex- ample, increase funds for the so- cial committee so that A Winter Affair will be as good, if not bet- ter than, last years, give bigger budgets to successful student pub- lications and clubs (ie: The Con- cordiensis, WRUC, Ballroom Dancing, Rugby, Wome·n's Union, etc; .. } Basically, increase funding for programs that need it and stop unnecessary spending. It's your choice, but let me remind you; the single most important reason you are here is to get an education. Yes, that means tak- ing classes, studying for exams. passing those exams, writing a thesis, doing an independent study., perfonning research, and graduating with a degree you can be proud of. It is time for you to infonn your representatives that you are taking a stand against unnecessary spending. In the me~ntime, enjoy the .new bar stools. ' I I I

OPINIONS January 27, 1994, page 11 Privatization ·: A Response to th·e Dining Services Debate Letter From the Editor -To the Editor: simple things that can be done . to make the students more recep- . five to vali-dine. For starters,· many of the simple joys of Dutch Hollow have been elimi.- · nated. What about bringing back breakfasts and toasted ba- gels to Dutch? What about opening Dutch up to meal cards for a couple of hours to allow for extra punches to used? How about opening up the Skellar for a couple e>f hours to meal cards for the same reason? A Discusslon in Free do in of the Press -This letter is regarding the cur- rent Dining services debate and is addressed to three leve'ls. To Admin'istration. Bringing in an outside source to run our dining services is worse than a- bad idea. In Mt. Rice's article in the Jan. 20 issue, ·he made the good point that the quality of · foodwouldgodown. Morethan that however, is that in a school that prides itself on community and self- maintenance, the intru .. sion of an outside vendor would not only create an immediate and sizable riff in the Union community but also jeopardize the jobs of some of the-people who fonn its core. Having been involved as an employee of Din- ing Services for thrt::e years I have seen the fine employees adopt both the college and the students therein. It would be tragic to see a cold, impersonal . company dislocate such fine in- . dividuals in an effort to make a buck. To Dining Services. I think many students feel as I do about . an outside company coming in. There are, however, a few To The Concordiensis. Lets try to work this out together. It. has come to my attention that a . few things were misquoted and . a few facts misrepresented in · recent articles. For example, your statement that the· Rath:;kellar was misguided as . the Skellar has consistently shown profit. Also the anony- mous statement a~out the qual- ity offood \getting even worse\ • certainly does not accurately represent the feel.ings of any· food service employee I have talked to, all of whom take pride . in producing quality food and offering friendly service. · -Douglas Bartell Dining Service Employee Upset with Concordiensis To the Editor: I have been a food service worker with Union College Dining Service for nine years. I am a salad maker for Dutch Hollow and Upperclass Dining Hall. I prepare almost all the salads for these units ·and I do it with the utmost of pride in what I do and respect for each individual who eats what I prepare. I am totally annoyed at the statement in the Concordiensis indicating that the food at Union is not up to quality standards. I put my heart into every salad prepared and I wouldn't serve a salad to a student or staff member if I wouldn't eat it myself. I won;t even receive products from venders if they are not up to standard - I send them back. Signed, Cathy Cooper Many. thanks to the _college community· from·- thcf ·Damia-n Cen~;er ·in Scheitec'ta~ly ;'for the Donation of Bears ·& food for people with AIDS. by David Levine Editor-in-cltief Through the course of time the media has always provided the public with a means to evaluate the performance of public servants. This is especially tme it1 dem9cratic countries, and not anymore true than it is in the United States. The first amendment of the constitution includes Freedom of the Press, meaning that no government entities or citizens can impede the printing and circulation of printed materials. In editorial content, newspapers usually, but not always, reflect the opinions of the publisher(s). The publishers incur alle>fthe costs of producing the newspaper, and though most journalists believe that their primary objective is to infmm the public in a non-biased fashion, the editorial content ofthe newspaper is opinionated by definition. Fortunately, the Concordiensis is not funded by Union College, which means that the administration cannot in any way, shape, or fonn censor the c,ontent, editorial or otherwise, of the newspaper. l11e Concordiensis is funded by the students of Union College through the Student Activities Fee. Though the budget of the Concordiensis is allocated by the Student Forum, the publisher of the Concordiensis is the entire student body of Union College. As the editor-in-chief of the Concordiensis I am responsible to every student on the Union campus, and r am particularly responsible to the men and women on the newspaper's staff who elected me to the position, with full knowledge that I intended to make the newspaper more of a campus voice. The editorials are intended to represent the majority opinion of the student body on a variety of issues. However, it is impossible to write an editorial presenting the consensus optmon of 2000 Editorials, Letters & Disclaimers Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP-ED Page and must be received by 5 p.m. the Tuesday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. Final Decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed, although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majbrity of the Editorial Board, and no one member in particular. Any opinion columns reflect· tl1e opinions of the writers, and not necessarily the opinions of the · Editorial Board. Advertisements appearing in The Concordiensi.v do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. The Concordiensis is published Eight Thursdays a tenn by the students of Union College. It is funded in part by the Student Activities Fee. The Concordiensis, copyright 1994, all rights reserved. Box 2577, College Center, Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308. Telephone(5l8) 370-6155. 1he Concordiensis is printed ·by TI1e Leader Herald, 8-10 East Fulton Street, Gloversville, New York 12078. The Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP), National Student News Service, College Press Service, King Syndicates. SUBMISSIONS : All submissions are due the Tuesday before publication at 4 p.m. if they are submitted on either High .. density Macintosh Microsoft Word disks, or MS-Dos Microsoft Word or Wordperfect disks. Otherwise all submissions are due Monday by 4 p.m. in the drop box outside of The Concordiensi.\' office on the third floor of the College Center. students. Thus, the editorials present the majority opinion .of those people who are present at editorial meetings, and those students who care enough to verbalize their concerns to tbe editors. When any member of the Union College community disagrees with an opinion presented in the paper, they are entitled (and encouraged) to respond to the editorial with a Letter to the Editor. The editorial content, and the overall quality of the newspaper have been criticized with regularity in the past. As an editor, I have accepted the criticism, and 'have done the best job I am capable of doing at making the newspaper accessible to more students. Some of these criticisms have come from members of the Student Forum. I have been told by some Student Forum members that I accepted the position with the full knowledge that I would be in the public eye, and that if I couldn't take the heat that I should get out of the line of fire. I was also told that l should develop a thicker skin, particularly after I expressed extreme dissatisfaction with the Student Forum for posting yellow signs all over the campus highlighting an error which appeared in the Concordiensis. I felt that the error could have been brought to the attention of students in a much more tasteful way. I have two questions for members of the Student Forum, and I believe that the publishers of the Concordiensis would like answers to them. I} Why do members of the Student Forum believe they are not subject to criticism from their electors? Last week's editorial which questioned the size of the budget appropriated to WRUC last year, and encouraged the Student Forum to look more favorably on the future appropriation of funds to the nation's oldest radio station, we believe presented the opinions of not only most Concordiensis editors, but also a majority of the student body. Instead of looking at the issue, which asks the Forum to increase the budgets of the hi story-making student organizations, such as WR UC and the Concordiensis, so that these clubs can take their rightful places as major contributors to the rich history of Union Col1ege during the College's Bicentennial, some members of the Forum responded by taking the opinion personally, and leveled criticism at the newspaper for daring to take such a stance. If the amateur politicians on the Student Fonun cannot accept suggestions and criticism from their electors, they are sending a message that they are not responsible to the student body. \If you can't take the heat, get out of the line of fire.\ Learn this lesson early in your political life, because most members of the media are considerably more viscous and are less responsive than any of the editors of the Concordiensis. TI1e second question is, Why do some members of the Student Forum threate11 to not maintain the budget of the Concordiensis if the newspaper does not print infonnation they want included, and remove infonnation which Forum members believe could bring into question some of the issues that the Forum has discussed? I have had some members of the Student Forum tell me, \If you scratch my back, I'll scratch yours.\ I think I've eamed the right to make some editorial decisions on what the students of Union College want to read about in the newspaper. That is my job. Actually, it has become my life. Until you become an editor of o11e of the most prest1gwus college newspapers in the United States, and until you spend upwards of 40 hours a week at doing your best job at infonning the students ~ftl~e college, don't you dare tell me how to run this newspaper. While you may control the future budget of the Concordiensis, you constitute less than one percent of the ownership of this newspaper, and your individual concems will be weighted on the same level as any other student. As for any threats on the size of the newspaper's budget, I hope you've leamed a lessoil on the power of the press. P.S. - I hold the utmost respect for Student Forum members, and I do recognize the difficulties of their jobs. I'm sure most students are grateful for your service. NOTE: ELECTIONS FOR EDITOR-IN-CHIEF OF THE CONCORDIENSIS FOR 1994-1995 WILL BE HELD IN THREE WEEKS. - For more contact box Mcinerney. information 2577 or Deb

. \ January 27, 1994, page 12 OPINIONS Women: Stop Judging Each Other Why are Women So Judgemental? by Jen Sweeney Contributing Writer ----·--~~--~-------- Last term while walking through the mall with my now ex- boyfriend, I noticed as his gaze wandered and settled momen- tarily upon a woman in front of us. He glanced at her for a minute but then pulled his eyes away from her guiltily and looked at me to see whether I had seen him star- ing. I had observed his glance and I understood why he felt guilty; she was \perfect.\ We could only see her from behind but she was about 5' 1 1\ with long, thin legs, no hips and small buttocks. She was wearing tight jeans anda thin shirt and both revealed the lack of superfluous body fat on her frame. My first reaction was to be angry at the sight of the \per- fect\ woman and my anger was heightened by the thought that I would never look like her. At 5 '8\ I have stopped growing and l do not foresee myselflosing fif- teen pounds in the near future. Despite my negative attitude to- ward the woman, I could not blame my boyfriend for looking at her because, I was looking too wasn't I? l was rating her just as my boyfriend was and admiring her body just as i-ntensely as he had. Then, the woman turned around and she was actually a man. I felt as though I had been transported into \The Crying Game.\ My boyfriend and I looked at each other and we laughed nervously, each realizing what the other had been thinking. Neither of us verbalized our con- fusion but I have not stopped thinking about the incident. What I find interesting is the control that this society has over women's bodies. Women are perpetually molding/crafting their bodies to attain the image of per- fection. We are barraged with magazines, television shows and advertisements that portray the beautiful woman as tall, thin and hipless with tight buttocks and ei- ther no 'breasts or a size \D\ im- planted chest. Popular culture fails to inform the \ordinary\ woman that the figures in the me- dia are either mutants, twelve years old or surgically and pho- tographically enhanced. Cur- rently, the fashion is to look like a \waif.\ In other words, women must ignore their natural inclina- tion to have more body fat on the lower portion of their bodies and be \sticks.\ In other words, · \waifism\ can only be achieved by thin men because their bodies naturally have less body fat and it is distributed equally through- out the body. TI1erefore, society Macinlosb Quadra® (/;J)Av 8/230, witb inlemal A/JpleCD\' 3fXJi CJ).ROM drive, AppleAudioVision\' 14\ Display. Apple Extended Keyboard II and mouse. On{y $2,838. Mac inlosb LC .f!5 4/11J, Apple Color Plus 14\ Display, .Apple Keyboard II and mouse. Only $1,325. }/Jpk PowerBook 145B 4i80. On{y $1,333. It does more. has established- standards for women that are impossible to achieve. Society has censored women. I think the inci·dent I experi- enced in the mall is important at this particular time of the year because of sorority rush. Women all over Union'scampus are feel-. ing insecure and vulnerable be- cause '\friendship'~ was not ex- tended to them by a group of strangers. Because there is not enough time during rush 'ror women to get to know each other, dejected \rushees\ have only sev- eral conclusions to draw- they did not dress appropriately, they are fat er they are ugly. Obviously, those conclusions cannot be true for every weman who did notre- ceive their \bid of choice.\ I will not continue discussing sororities and the rush process because this . article is not long enough for all of the negative things I have to say. I will comment, however, on the fact that women are sub- jected to enough pressure from the media and the culture we in- habit without inflicting more pressure upon each other. There is something definitely askew when women are not only being judged by men and the media but by women as well. When are we going to stop being our worst en- emy? Au ea.£)' appliwlion process. A11dyou could qualifyfot lou· moutb(l' pc(l'llumts 011 ct Macintosh or PowerBook. It costs less. Theonewhodidnotgetabid by Kate Durocher Contributing Writer Once again the rush process is over, and it's just in time. I actu- ally felt that some of the sisters were beginning to believe that the whole process was superficial, stupid, insensitive, and degrading. But, it's over and you don't seem to mind as you gracefully step over the fragmented pieces of broken hearts in the haste to con- gratulate those little lambs who were not slaughtered and to post the \coveted\ letters up on the doors of your new best friends; the door that is inches away from that woman- What's her name? Theonewhodidnotge.tabid. That's the one, you might remem- ber-her, you probably even spoke to her. Don't worry, she remem- hers ypu and thinks ofyou every time she opens her door anp stares, confused,. at the large greek letters in front of the door of the other wemen- What's her name? Theonewhogotabid. Sure, you aU say, \Rush sucks, but it's the only way.\ Well, there comes a point in time where one must sit down and ask oneself, \Is it worth it?\ Maybe the only way is net a way ale process other than to express it all my opinion. I appeal to those women in sororities to use a little discretion. Maybe pasting your letters up on the deor in front ofTheonewhodidnotgetabid isn't such a nice idea. I understand that you are happy and you want te let them know, but why not right a letter? At least let them sweep up the pieces before you step on them again. ' ' 7 Bedroom House Available 1994~95 *One Block From Campus *One Year Lease*Large Bedrooms *Modern Kitchen * 2 Bathrooms *Includes All Appliances *Excellent Porches *Security System 370-5498 (leave message anytime) 347-2644 (evenings after 7:30) I1itroducing The Great Apple C:ampus Deal Introducing The Great Apple Campus Deal. Right now, buy any select Macintosh® or PowerBook' computer, and you'll also get seven useful software programs. Its all included in one low price. (The software alone has a combined SRP of$ 596~) And, the new Apple Computer Loan offers low monthly payments that make the deal even better. Apply by January 28,1994, and your first payment is deferred for 90 days. All you have to do is qualify. So, what are you waiting for? An Apple® computer. It does more. It costs less. It's that simple. ItS that simple. Visit your Apple Campus Reseller for more information. Union College Bookstore College Center, 2na Floor • 388-6188 ©1993 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights resen·ed Apple, the Apple logo, tt~acinlosh, Macintosh Quadra ~nd PoU'~rBoo~ are reg;s_tered trq~emm'ks of Apple Co!~puter.Inc. AflpleCD and AudioVisi?n are (mdemarks of Apple Computer. h1c. . \Bawd oizt!Je combined Suggested Retail Pl'lces (SRP) oftbe products ill Tbe Campus Sojtu'tll'e Set for Macmlosh as of October I. 1993. !Jojltt'(lre ~~not mcluded m /be ongmlll product [Jack11gmg as shown m lb1s ad Bulyou ll'lll recel!'e these same soflu•are programs m a11 mtegrated fXickage from Apple.

Features January 27, 1994, page 13 A Quiz: How Cool Are You? 3) Your feelings on MTV's Real World\ by Rawson Thurber \Beavis and Butthead\ are: 5) When meeting your girlfriend! Features Writer A) \Beaver and Buttface\ or boyfriend's parents for the first whatever it's called., is the worst time, the family dog crams his wet I've met a lot of people in my thing to hit TV since the Amy nose into your crotch sniffing rap- life that suck, and more times than Fischer trilogies. With all the vio- idly, you: not they have no idea that they lence in the world we don't need A) Laugh politely and say, \He suck. So I've devised this little a showthat glorifies such actions, probably smells my dog.\ quiz so that anyone can take it and and attempts to make. them funny. B) Smack the hell out of him. find out if they suck. Fair enough? Something should be done to rec- C) Fall to the ground laughing Good. Let's begin. tify this situation. and squeai,\Take me naw I'tn l) You r:eceive aletterfrom your B) Huh-huh, you said \rec- yours!\ grandparents, you: tify\ huh-huh, that was cool. 6) The best movie ever made: A) Open the envelope, read the C) There's nothing wrong with A) The Vanilla Ice vehicle letter, then look for the check. a little mindless television and \Cool as Ice\ B) Open the envelope, look for bathroom humor every now and B) \Caddy Shack\ \Fletch\ the check, then read the letter. then. Just make sure you get your (basically, any Chevy Chase Hick C) Open the envelope, grab the work done. ever made) check, throw the rest away. 4) If you could club to death one C) \Sleepless in Seattle\ 2) The best show o~1 TV is: person it would be: D) \Ishtar\ A) MTV's \l11e Grind\ A) Bob Sagat- host of TV's 7) Your opinion on the Richard B) MTV's \The Grind- from \America's Funniest Home Vid- Gere \Gerbil Incident\ is: the beach house \ eos\ and star of \Full House\ A) Hey, if a man wants to stick C) Seinfeld B) Micheal Bolton gerbils up his rectum, so be it. D) Family Matters (with that C) Paul Schaffer That's what makes America the irresistible Erkle guy) D) Beth from MTV's \The 1:,rreatest nation in the world. We Meet Eggy, He's Really Neat by Erin M. O'Neil Features Editor I recently had the opportunity to spend some time with one of the most unique individuals on the Union College campus. Eggy, some close friends, and myself sequestered ourselves in the liv- ing room of his cozy home. It was an evening of lively chat and pleasant company, amidst which our discourse ensued. Eggy re- ceived my questions with his characteristic toothy grin, and honest gaze. What unraveled was truly fascinating. Why do they call you llggy? sighs wistfully My father's called me Eggy since I was born. One day the school bully heard him, and before I knew it the whole playground found out. Everybody called me Eggy, even my teachers. I dealt with it. I didn't cry until they called me chicken legs. How do you feel about the North American Free Trade Agree- ment'! laughs We can get our beans from some where else besides Mexico; I try not think about NAFTA. What 's your favorite line in a schoolbook? I know it by heart, 0 Pioneers!. by Willa Cather; rises to his feet \I get wet to tny knees when I go down to pick cherries .. \ Approximately how 11iuch time a week do you spend studying? laughs a lot Studying what? Beer pong? laughs again I study for classes a good two hours a week. I spend most of my time watching Batman. What girl do you dream about more than any girl on campus, and why? Dara Hennan. She can avoid me if she w:ants. I'd probably have a better chance ofmafl)'ing Cindy Crawford. Why? Person- ality ... Ya, I know her! Where were you raised? On the 'Giland- in Dix Hills. Dix Hills is known for two traits: its Dix and its Hills, and I'm one of them- the hill, but in the meta- physical sense of course. Do you nm with the \Strong Is- land Posse\'! As a rule, I hate everybody who lives on Long Island except my parents. When you have long hair on Long Island everyone looks at you like you're a derelict, but in that sense I am a derelict, so who gives a damn. How many torques does it take to screw in a lightbulb? Not as many torques as it takes to put out a fire on a house. I'd say fifty torques. Are you a virgin'! Squirms Na na. Aside from the many girls in the Niagara Falls region, I've had my share of Tasmanian women to boot. What do you hope to take away from this inten•iew? Hopefully a good head rush, and something interesting to read in the bathroom llmrsday. · Are you hoping to allract women as .the result (?f this article'! scratches head I would say that I hope to attract women with this article. Make sure to send a copy to Lorena Bobbitt. Do I know you? looks cml/il.\'ed Give me a lisi t?fyour top tenfa- mrite things to do at Union Col- lege? 1. Procrastinate 2. GRAFFIX Designs 3. Sleep 4. TV with the brothers 5. Beer Pong 6. Hangin' out with the Fox Posse 7. Tripping over my face 8.Nothin' 9. Mas- turbate 10. Kissing your ass. I then opened up questioning to our friends. They too had many queries for the intriguing Eggy. Eggy as always, was gracious, lit up his pipe with his \I get sex like my steak- rare\ lighter, and settled back in his seat, smoke rings en- circled his head, his face held a contented grin. What's going to he the name c?f your.firstmovie, Mr. Hggy? Frustration-because that's how I feel about tny sex life. Could you describe your first sexual encounter to us'! blushes It was in the back seat of a Cadillac Seville on my sev- enteenth birthday. Oh, what a night. grins What's yourfm•orite expression? look\ bqffled I don't say any- thing really. Who .. will he your.first wtfe? I guess I'd settle for the chick in the Aerosmith video, ifDara's not impressed. At last it was time for us to part. Before he left, the Egg man tumed to us and whispered, \The egg is the symbol of life.\ He covered his face with his cloak, and van- ished out of sight. Uncle Edna Is On Vacation This Week .. Stay Tuned For More Next Week! can do whatever we want to with A) l11e New Kids on the Block. rodents. And no one's gonna stop It a matter of simple numbers; us. five against two. You've got to B) He's married to Cindy play the odds. Plus Donnie Crawford. He can do whatever he Walberg is one tough hombre. wants. End of story. B) The Nelson Twins. Gunner C) I just feel sorry for all those Nelson looks like he was raised people who have gerbils as pets. on the streets. He's probably a I mean they have to explain ev- scrappy fighter. ery time someone comes over that C) Joey Lawrence (star of the Squirmy is only a pet, nothing hit television show \Blossom\). more. Even though he's not invited to 8) Your favorite TV commercials the \brawl\, he'd jump in just to are: show that he's not as much of a A) Those Energizer Bunny sissy as his video makes him out adds. l11ey just keep getting bet- to be. ter and better! D) Neither. It's to close to call. B) l11e Nike football Ads wit<l1 You'd probably bet the money on Dennis Hopper as the referee. a sure thing. Like the Dallas Cow- C) The Mentos Ads. They have boys beating the ever loving day- got to be the pinnacle of our de- lights out of the pathetic Buffalo velopment as a society. Bills. 9) If you had to put money on a I 0) Your opinion on this whole fight between The New Kids on \Lorena Bobbit\ thing is: the Block and l11e Nelson Twins continued on paxe 1 .f you'd go with: Come to BDC to Shed Those Steel Toed Shoes by Heather Reynolds Concordiensis Staff Have you ever watched your aunts and uncles at a wedding and wondered how they ever teamed to move so gracefully on the dance floor without stepping on each other's toes? Well, over fifty- Union students began to Jeam tl1e basics of !,'T'ace on the dance floor, last tenn. A Junior, Jennifer Huang, had . taken Ballroom Dancing for physical education in high school, decided that Union students were in need of this life skill, and started the ballroom dancing club. Over two hundred students si1,rned up for the club, at the student ac- tivities fair, but unfortunately. for the sake of dance pairs, most of these were females. So, Jennifer and two of her friends walked through south and north t1ying to recruit more men. and the club began. A teacher from Arthur Murray School of Dance comes to the Arts Dance Studio once a week to teach these brave students the Cha Cha, Mambo, Jitterbug, Samba. Tango, Fox Trot, and Waltz. There are now two classes. a beginner and intenne- diate. and about an equal number of men and women. The club has received funding from Student Activities, andmore members are always welcome. The club hopes to sponsor a dance, the movie Strictly Ballroom, and a trip to Harvard for a dance competition. The beginner class is Monday aftemoons from 6-7:00 p.m .. llte intennediate class is 11mrsdays from 5-6:00 p.m. Both classes are held in the Arts Dance Studio, and socks or change of shoes is re- quired. Come with your sense of humor and an open mind. No partner is required! photo by Michele Roseman/TC ....

'~ January 27, 1994, page 14 Features Women: Would You Really Want It Any Other Way? by Alexis Leist Features Editor How many times have you heard a woman say \Why does life have to he so hard, I wish I was a man.\ Probably many times, I have even said it a few times myself. And this statement rnay \'ery well hold true, in cer- tain cases, for exan1ple the pangs of childbirth. the etemal quest for a mndcl•perfect body, or PMS, when suddenly every woman mysteriously transfonns into Dr. Jekyll. Why do we say such dumh things? Because we are looking for an easy way out, like most people we want the most result for the least work. But af- ter serious consideration I realize that I would never want to be a man. I would rather take the hard path (at this point I really have no choice anyway). The typical assumption that people often make is that things naturally come easy to men. This is not an assumption, of course they do. Not every man, mind you but I believe the assumption holds true for most middle class white men. Yes, sexism is still disgustingly prevalent i.n this country (like most) and men still have the upper hand in every as- pect of the U.S ....... Some men still bdicvc that they arc superior to women, thus they are entitled to more than we are and there- fore we arc still kept forcibly be- hind the white-picket fence. But, in time, our condition will improve; if we take the proper steps and begin to understand that we arc entitled to the same posi- tions they arc. Yet, the achievc- meiH of equality with men will be a great victory for us, a spe- cial and proud moment in our lives, something men cat:J never experience because they have neverbeenheldback in the same way we have. Thus, during this age I would never want to be any- thing but a woman. Women have been repressed and made to feel inferior for ages. When a woman today makes it on her own, with her own talents, her own brains, he;· own money, it is that much more special because of the fact that she is a woman. Having hardly ever known any success in any. aspect of society, with the exception of raising children, a taste of success satisfies us more than it could ever a male. Since the beginning of time men have been in the fo1:efront of the forces which controlcommunities. Men are bom with an .advantage over us, from birth they have already got a head start in the rat race. On the flip side ohhe coin, be- cause the majority of people who do control our country are men, it is often they who get the blame for everything that goes wrong witl~ our country. If there is cor- ruption within o~tr national gov- emm~nt, men are blamed. But in my opinion such blame is justifi- able because met1 do hold the majority of jobs which form the working basis of America. True, we cannot blame white male su- premacy for all of our problems but certainly for some of them. At least, we can blame them for our repression. The advantages of bei11g a woman are two-fold: first, if a woman achieves her goals and is able to spar with men on an equal basis, it is truly something Sf>e- cial because she has finally caught up to hermale counterpart. Secondly, we don't have the risk of being blamed because in our society we are the objects of in- feriority, prejudice, sexism, and the like .. We are still very much the minority and the weaker sex. Yes, even in the 1990's the opportunities offered to us are limited and full of challenge and hardship. So then why am I so glad to be a woman? Because in order for me to make it outthere, I will have to face challenges, but once those challenges are super- seded, the high will last forever. It's not enough for me to come out of this s'\hool' with a great edu- cation, because 1 wiU stiH have to overcome the sexism which looms over our society. Men will never face the same challenges that women will, thus their high will never be as strong or satisfy., in g. And if men do screw L\p, they will. be blamed and crucified, whereas women can get away with almost anything because of our .sex. Isn't that using our sex to get ahead? Of.course it is, and why shouldn't we do it? Men have, for years. Are You Losing Your Mind? Rawson's Quiz Continued.· Who would you like to he marooned on a dessert island with? by Michelle Rosenbaum Features Writer Everyone has lost something in their lives. Personally,! have lost so many things, I am surprised I haven't lost my mind! I truly do not believe there·is a cure for los- iug things, but there must he some way to prevent it. \ decided to write about several things which I constantly lose. Hopefully, I am not a lone at los- ing them! The meal card is the number one item on my \lost items\ list. Last year either my roommate or I lost that little red packet every- day. If mine was not missing, then hers was. We would always find them eventually and they were usually in the same place. Mine usually ended up in the pocket of my coat or my jeans from the Jay before. Yt.:t, I al- \\ ays thought the card was gone and I \\ould gu cra.ty looking for 1t! Losmg the card this year is even worse since it isn't a little card with punches, it's the \vali- dine!\ Everyone always loses keys. It doesn't make a difference how many key chains )-'OU have. Keys ahvays seem to disappear! Most of us have those handy I itt I e key-bracelets from the bookstore. I lowever. if it isn't on your wrist, it finds a way to disappear or there is always the probability that someone else in the room has the same color bracelet! l11en there are big problems! Car keys are even worse to lose! If you can't find them you know they are either locked in the car or hidden somewhere, but the question is where? Life would be so much easier without keys. Imagine if all we had to do was touch the key hole and the door would open from our fingerprint. It may happen in the future. I am sure that many girls agree with me that losing one's brush is the worst. We just end up put- ting it down in the \wrong place.\ How it is possible, I really do not know, but it drives me crazy. Brushes tend to be camouflage and blend into the tahle or wher- ever they arc left. Yet,wealways seem to lose them right before we have to go out and our hair is dry- ing awkwardly' Then there is an extremely up- setting loss. When you lose something with a lot of meaning, you feel it will never be found and could never be replaced. Jewelry, pictures, a camera, compact discs, special pens, and cards, are all examples of upsetting losses. Everyone always says, \Don't worry, it will tum up when you aren't looking for it.\ Whenever anyone says that to me, I am ready to kill them. You know the feel- ing when you have looked every- where possible. you just know the special items are gone forever! No matter how pessimistic I am though, those optimists are al- ways right! When you aren't looking for things you thought you lost, they always seem to be \found.\ I don't understand it. It's as if a little man finds things for all of.us and when we forget we even lost them he decides to give them back! I know I haven't listed even half of the lost items. There's al- ways the planner, drivers license, notes for a paper due tommTow, phone numbers, and the list goes on. TI1ere really is no cure for losing things. You could write down every time you put some- . thing somewhere,. but I am sure the list will eventually be lost. You could also simply put things in places which you won't forget, hut s0me how our minds seetn to forget where those \secret\ places are. My plan is: don't put anything important down!. Wear your fa- vorite jewelry all the time. Tie your key to your wrist in a double knot! The only thing I could think of for that meal card is tape it to your body! Otherwise just ,live with the fact that humans lose many things, there just simply is no way to prevent it! conlitmed from page 13 A) If s about time women started dealing with the head that controls 95% of men's actions. B) Lock her up, and throw away the key. C) It doesn't matter just as long as Letterman gets another Top Ten list out of it. ll ) The one person you'd most want to be marooned with on a desert island: A) Anna-Nicole Smith/ Brad Pitt (depending on your gender) B) \The Professor\ from \Giligan's Island\ that way you could have all of life's little ne- cessities made out of cute bam- boo shafts and palm fronds. C) Billy Ray Cyrus. l11at way you'd have someone to bludgeon to death with a rock and use for fish bait. Plus you'd get his cool pair of white high-top sneakers out of the deal. How you Scored: 1) A) 5 B) 3 C) 0 2) A) 2 B) I C) 0 D) 25 3) A) 5 B) I C) 2 4)A)O B) 1 C)2 D)3 5) A) 5 B) 0 C) 4 6)A)8 B)O C)2 D)5 7)A)3 B) 2 C) I 8) A) 3 B) 2 C) 6 9)A)5 B)5 C)3 D)O I 0) A) 1 B) 0 C) 2 ll)A)O B)l C)2 SCORING: 0-10: You're probably the coolest thing around. You're the \Fortzi\ of the people you hang out with. You're so cool you could probably smash an Olym- pic ice-skater's leg and people would think you were the great- est thing since KY Jelly. 11-24: You're semi-cool. You have some odd feelings, that if! eft unchecked could lead to some serious counseling in later life. TI1e best thing for you to do is realize that the 70's are gone, and loose the bell-bottoms, watch MTV's \House of Style\ as much as possible, and make fun of people for being different. 25 and up: Basically you have no friends. There's little hope of ever escaping the amount of \suck-a-tude\ you've embraced. If I were you, I'd quite while I was way, way behind. Your only hope for salvation is to throw out your Jeremy Jordan CD, buy both Pearl Jam albums, know all the lyrics to \Black\, stop watching \Lip Service\ on MTV, start watching \Bay Watch';. and see if you can become a contestant on \Studs\. For my personal comments on your test score, send a copy of your answers with a retum box number to: Box 2018. Are you outgoing, upbeat and excited about Union? Would you like to learn more about your college? Do you enjoy meeting new people? Apply nowtobecome a Union College Tour Guide aka the Gatekeeper Honorary Society Applications are available in the Admissions Office. Application deadline is Wednesday 1 February 2nd.

SPORTS Men's Basketball Squad Eyes Tough Opponents, Playoffs Continued from Page J6 fought victory. Sam Poulis lead the Dutchmen down the stretch with24points while SteveEvans, Mark Stodden, Kenny \Dr. K\ Evans, and Marcello \Jellow\ Tellez combined assists with Ken Evans scoring against Ki11g's Poi11t (plloto by ScottDruckemiller for Tile Concordiensis. power points in the paint to seal the game. Tite seventh-ranked Dutchmen go on the road to take on Elmira and Hobart in the up- coming week. Last week, Union defeated Kingspoint 95-72 and lost a close game to a mediocre Utica 74-69. Against the Merc11ant Marines, Sammy Spike lead aU scorers with 21 points with the help of Stodden and Dr. K Who had 14 and I J poinst respective·ly. Kenny also added 6 assists and Stodden had six blocks to shut down the l\1arines. Sigma Dags came off the bench to play great defense and added 9 points to add insult to injury in the second half blow-out. But, a different story when Union played Utica. The Dutchmen let this game slip away having trouble scoring down the stretch. Dr. K had 19 points, Stodden had 10 points and five blocks. Reinis Kanders helped out with 12 points and Steve Evans had a solid game from the point with seven points and seven assists in a losing effort. The Union Dutchmen look to be a solid contender for an ECAC playoffbid, but continue to chase a NCAA bid, an honor which has eluded the Dutchmen for many years. Who knows, if the basket- ball team enters the NCAA Tour- nament, m~ybe more than twenty students oi1t of 2,000 will sfiow to support their team. Stranger things have happened! Women's Basketball Suffers Heartbreaker by Joe Saltzbart Associate Sports Editor \Hartwick up 77-76 with six seconds left on the clock. Union in-bounds, they get the ball to Pagnozzi, she shoooooots ... off the rim! Union loses a heart- breaker to their cross-state rivals.\ The words of famed announcer Adam \Schwazz\ Schwartz as this great game came to close. Unfortunate for the Lady Dutch- men, as this game co,uld have gone either way as both .teams played great basketball down the stretch. Pags scored a game high 27 points and had four assists in the losing effort. Melissa Maguire had 11 points, while Deb Mo11tano with her new kicks and Michelle Kleinhaus had 1 0 points a piece. Good efforts by senior point guard Andrea Light and freshman sensation Tanya Capparello kept Union in it as Hartwick took a six point lead late in the game. Earlier in the week, Union de- feated Binghamton and Russell Sage. Andrea Pagnozzi again lead all Dutchmen with 22 points followed by Tonya Capparello who had 13 points. Light and Montano each haa eight points to help earn the victory for the Lady Dutchmen. Against Russell Sage, Pags and Light were the top scor- ers with 21 and 13 points respec- tively. Kleinhans played tough in the paint adding ten points ofher own. The Lady Dutchmen have a record of7 wins and 8losses win- ning seven oftheir last ten games. Union must continue their win- ning ways as they fight for postseason play. Come out and see the scoring machine, Andrea Pagnozzi, the flying elbows of Center Michelle Kleinhaus, and Ms. Assist Andrea Light as they take on Albany in the Memorial Field House tonight at 7pm. An- nouncer Schwazz promises to give a free autographed hockey mask to every student who at- tends the game. So bring the kids! Athlete of the Week : Scott Boyd by Mike Leding Concordie11sis Staff For the third week in a row some athlete on our campus has actually one The Athlete c?f the Week. Only I know who this tre· mendous athletic force is, and I am now willing to share this in- fonnation with the rest of you. This week's winner is none other than Union Hockey's Scott Boyd. l11is valiant skat- ing defensemen from Calgary, Alberta was tremendous in Union's first win ever over Yale .. The skating Dutchmen defeated Yale 5-4 last Friday night. He skated his way to three points, his goal being the winning one. In this sophomore's last seven games he has registered nine points. Right now Boyd is play- ing the best hockey of his ca- reer, and received ECAC hon- orable mention after his perfor- mance against Yale. An even more exciting and self-fulfilling award than this. The hockey Team will be playing Dartmouth and Ver- mont on the road this coming weekend. They hope to pull away with two tremei1dous wins and keep their winning streak going. Good luck to the team and congratulations to Scott Boyd. Now the suspense is over, all you other athletes on this campus will just have to try real hard if you want to win the award. You score the points we 'II take care of the rest. Re- · member no matter how tough the team looks, cheap shot them and you can usually come away with a win or at least hurt some- one. January 27, 1994, page 15 ompetitkm are v!!!l:~l~~~~~~~~ih.i:R!~t;~t~l1tdWlt~~la:Nil:l.g i11· ~n~ ~t~rune, The NBA se- ''GMO~>~~ttl!fl~itu~:~u'\·l·~··t·1.~.t. tl\~~~,pbinHeat1), and then, from •. e~kli;:C'()Ilfetet}ce ~onsisting · pt~~;·~ll:th~\n~tuaJ An .. Star game .. · .-sn.Qutu,n·., 9J. 4othesrun¢: · .9~~~~ts.a)ltr. 1g for years that , I~!P!~lfSlQJ.l and tni!qia . · · £or ihe last ' •· ::, ·. NB(\ A Radio was stolen from a campus safety officer NOTE: THIS RADIO IS VALUED AT $500. ONCE THE BAT- TERY RUNS OUT IT WILL BE OF NO USE TO ANYONE. WE WOULD APPRECIATE THE RETURN OF THIS RADIO ... NO QUESTIONS A~KED. PLEASE DO NOT DESTROY OR DIS- POSE OF IT. RETURN IT AS LOST AND FOUND ... YOU WILL BE PROVIDING A SERVICE TO THE COMMUNITY AND AL- LEVIATING ONE OF YOUR PEERS OF THE RESPONSIBIL- ITY OF THIS LOSS- THANK YOU! Contact Paul Mantica -

- 1 January 27, 1994 PAGE 16 mq£ 0Ionror~i£nsis For the First Time in Division I History, Union is in Playoff Contention by Dagan La Corte Sports Editor On Friday night, the Skating Dutchmen played host to the Bull Dogs of Yale University. For Union, it was their only game of the weekend, a game which was a must win. A win over Yale would put the Dutchmen in a tie with Dartmouth for the final play- off spot in the E.C.A.C. Entering the game against Yale, Union '.s record stood at 5-7-1, with a l-7- 1 record in league competition. The Bulldogs had a record of 2- 8. and were looking to keep their post-season hopes alive. Realiz- int! the significance of this game. 1 Jnion was ur to the task. rally- ing in the third period for a 5-4 victory. Less than one minute into the first period, junior winger Chris Albert put the Dutchmen ahead 1-0. From that point on the play of the Dutchmen began to falter, and late in the first- period Yale tied the score. The period ended with the score tied, but that wou\dn 't last long. The Dutchmen took a 2-1 lead in the second period, on a power play goal by freshman Russell Monteith. with an assist to defenseman Scott Boyd. How- ever. as before. Union's play be- came sluggish. and Yale took ad- vantage scoring two consecutive goals, making the score 3-2 after two periods. While the crowd at Achilles believed the game was over. the Dutchmen thought oth- erwise. As Michael Corleone once said, '\Just when you thought they were out, they pull you back in\ that was the case as Union rallied in the third period. ' c•~ :$~;;'- ~<-r--· . ~ ~~:~i;:~ -\·. ·,~~ .-q . Ill;' - ' I· ;; ' - ~.~ ReidSimonton skates tflrougfl two Bulldog Defensemm in Union's 5-4 triumph over divisional foe. (plloto by Scott Druckemiller/TC) Pat O'Fiaherty scored early in the third period to tie the score at three. Soon after, the team's sole senior and captain Jeff Jiampetti, put the Dutchmen ahead, on an assist by Chris Hancock. The Dutchmen added to their lead, as Scott Boyd tallied his third point of the game and fourth goal ofthe season on the power play, with an assist going to Monteith. The goal which turned out to be the game winner, was the Dutchmen's fourth power play goal in two games illustrating how Union's special teams are greatly improved this season. The Dutchmen are on the road this weekend, facing off against division opponents Dartmouth and Vermont. Union and Dartmouth have five points, and are tied for the tenth spot in the division. As freshman Russ Monteith put it, \these upcoming three weeks are pivotal, we need to take four of our next six games.\ The Dutchmen acknowledge the fact that they are, for the first time a real contender in the E.C.A.C. Union's playoff situation is also acknowledged by sophomore forward Chris Hancock. As Hancock sees it, \With six weeks left in the season, this weekend is crucial, a sweep would give us a good position in the playoff pic- ture. The 1993-94 Dutchmen team, is one of the most improved teams in all of collegiate hockey, and don't be surprised if you see Union still in action come play- offtime. Union Swimming Dominates by Lee Schacter Associate Sports Editor Over the past week. the Union men's and women's swimming and diving teams dominated both of its opponents. RPI last Wednesday and Middlebury this past Saturday. It was a total team effort all around, as Union again proved that they will be a force to be reckoned with at the state ::hampionships this year. Against RPI, both the men and women had huge leads before ;;wimming the remainder of the neet in exhibition to avoid run- ling up the score. The women .verc up 119-45 before they fin- shed in exhibition to bring the ina! score to 119-72. The men 1eld a 122-46 lead before doing he same thing and ending up with 1 122-77 victory. Leading the Nay for the women were Kelly levan. Jonatha Meade, and 1ckie Crane with three first place finishes each. Jenn Baldwin. Jenn Allaire. and Eri Hayashi each with two, and Jenn Terrell and Alyson McKee each recording one personal victory. Otlier women who scored were Jen Davidson, Mo O'Donnell, Julie Ivanyi, Erica Saltz, Anne Rozwadowski, Jen Borey, CeCe Buchanan, Amy Ambrosini, and Lindsey Johnston. On the men's side, it was a similar story. Mike Humphreys led the team with three first place finishes, followed by Bill Humphreys, Kevin Makarowski, Robbie Johnson, and Scott Bowden with two, and John Fitzgerald, Chris Yousey, Geoff Wolfe, Than Stuntz, Chip Quarrier, and Chris Riley each chalking up one victory. Also contributing to Union's success were Drew Pirich, Tsuyoshi Kobayashi, Adam Horst, Steve Potenza, James Ernst, Eric Menard, Ken Hackett, Eric Smith, Rob Cohen, Matt Woodrow, Dave Saad, Luke Payne, Joe Saltzbart, and Mike Miller. It was quite a team effort as Union thrashed the Engineers of RPI. On Saturday, Union was im- pressive again as the women beat Middlebury 136-107 and the men won 133-104. Union overtook six pool records- four by the women and two by the men. TI1e women started off their meet with one of these records- Allaire, Bevan, Baldwin, and Hayashi in the 400 yard medley relay. Bevan went on to take pool records in the 200 yard fly and 200 yard breaststroke too, and Crane took the pool record in the 500 yard freestyle. Bevan, Crane, and Meade each came in first three times, Natasha Zabka and Hayashi twice, while Baldwin, · Allaire, Buchanan, and O'Donnell each took first once. The divers, Zabka, Nicole Rubin, and Amy Lamphere took first, second, and third, respectively in both diving events. The men started their meet with a pool record in the 400 yard medley relay as well: Mike Humphreys, Johnson, Bill Hutnphreys, and Bowden. In the next event, the 1 000 yard freestyle, Makarowski won the event in a Middlebury pool record and a Union school record tini.e. Makarowski and Bowden each had three victories during the meet, Mike Humphreys, Bill Humphreys, Johnson, and Riley each had two, and Wolfe had one as well. Divers Chris Bryan and Vinnie Obermeier placed well also. Overall, it was a stellar week for the Swimming Dutchmen . Tite biggest duel meet of the season is coming up this Satur- day at home against rival Hamilton- at 2:00. This meet will begin with Senior Recognition and is expected to be a 'very ex- citing meet as well. So come on out and support the team! ' '? \ - \ - 4 ~ w sl1 c tu A b) Sl et 2~ Cl Cll A: h) or 3( ra A UJ da fa sa M

January 27, 1994 PAUE 16 For the First Time in Division I History, Union is in Playoff Contention by Dagan La Corte Sports Editor On Friday night. the Skating Dutchmen played host to the Bull Dogs of Yale University. For Union, it v.·as their only game of the weekend, a game which was a must win. A win over Yale would put the Dutchmen in a tie with Dartmouth for the final play- offspnt in the E.C.A.C. Entering the game against Yale. Union's r~cord stood at 5-7-1, with a 1-7- 1 r~cord in leagu~ competition. The Bulldogs had a record of 2- X. and\\ ere looking to keep their (Hist-~easoil hopes ali\ e. Reali:r- ;n~· til\.' sJ~nificancc nfthi-; ~<tlllC. ! 'nu•n \\;Is up ((I the Llsk. ralh- 111g in the third period fpr a 5--l \icton l.ess than one minute into tht: first period. junior winger Chris Alhc11 put the Dutchmen ahead 1-0. From that point on the play of the Dutchmen began to falter. and late in the first. period Yale tied the score. The period ended with the score tied, but that \vouldn 't last long. The Dutchmen took a 2-1 lead in the second period, on a po\ver play goal by freshman Russell Monteith. with an assist to defenseman Scott Boyd. How- ever. as before. Union's play be- came sluggish. and Yale took ad- vantage scoring two consecutive goals. making the score 3-2 after l\\o periods. While the crowd at Achilks believed the game was o\ t:r, the Dutchmen thought oth- CJ'\\ 1se. As Michael Corlcone once said, ''Just\\ hen you thought they\\ ere out. they pull you back 111 ... that was the case as Union rallied in the third period. '- c . Reid Simolllon skates through two Bulldog Defensemen in Union's 5-4 triumph over divisional foe. (photo by Scott Druckemiller/TC) Pat O'Flaherty scored early in the third period to tie the score at three. Soon after. the team's sole senior and captain Jeff Jiampetti. put the Dutchmen ahead. on an assist by Chris Hancock. The Dutchmen added to their lead. as Scott Boyd tallied his third point of the game and fourth goal of the season on the power play. with an assist going to Monteith. The goal which tumed out to be the game winner. was the Dutchmen's fourth power play goal in two games illustrating hmv Union's special teams are greatly improved this season. The Dutchmen are on the road this \veekend, facing off against division opponents Dartmouth and Vermont. Union and Dartmouth have five points, and are tied for the tenth spot in the division. As freshman Russ Monteith put it. \these upcoming three weeks are pivotal. we need to take four of our next six games.\ The Dutchmen acknowledge the fact that they are, for the first time a real contender in the E.C.A.C. Union's playoff situation is also acknowledged by sophomore forward Chris Hancock. As Hancock sees it, \With six weeks left in the season, this weekend is crucial, a sweep would give us a good position in the playoff pic- ture. The 1993-94 Dutchmen team, is one of the most improved teams in all of collegiate hockey, and don't be surprised if you see Union still in action come play- off time. Union Swimming Dominates by Lee Schaefer Associate Sports Editor Over the past week, the Union men's and women's swimming and diving teams dominated both of its opponents. RPl last Wednesday and Middlebury this past Saturday. It was a total team d'fort all around. as Union again proved that they will be a force :o be reckoned with at the state :hampionships this year. Against RPL both the men and • vomcn had huge leads before m i mm ing the remainder of the neet 111 exhibition to avoid nm- lin).! up the score. The women sc1c 11p 119-45 before they fin- shed in exhibition to bring the ina! !->Core to 119-72. The men 1eld a 122-46 lead before doing he same thing and ending up with 1 122-77 victory. Leading the .vay for the women were Kelly 3evan, Jonatha Meade, and 1ckie Crane with three first place finishes each. Jenn Baldwin. Jenn Allaire. and Eri Hayashi each with two. and Jenn Terrell and Alyson McKee each recording one personal victory. Other women who scored were Jen Davidson, Mo O'Donnell, Julie Ivanyi, Erica Saltz, Anne Rozwadowski. Jen Borey, CeCe Buchanan, Amy Ambrosini, and Lindsey Johnston. On the men's side. it was a similar story. Mike Humphreys led the team with three first place finishes, followed by Bi II Humphreys, Kevin Makarowski, Robbie Johnson, and Scott Bowden with two. and John Fitzgerald, Chris Yousey, Geoff Wolfe, Than Stuntz, Chip Quarrier. and Chris Riley each chalking up one victory. Also contributing to Union's success were Drew Pirich, Tsuyoshi Kobayashi, Adam Horst, Steve Potenza, James Ernst, Eric Menard, Ken Hackett, Eric Smith, Rob Cohen, Matt Woodrow, Dave Saad, Luke Payne. Joe Saltzbart. and Mike Miller. It was quite a team effort as Union thrashed the Engineers of RPI. On Saturday, Union was im- pressive again as the women beat Middlebury 136-107 and the men won 133-104. Union overtook six pool records- four by the women and two by the men. The women started off their meet with one of these records- Allaire, Bevan, Baldwin. and Hayashi in the 400 yard medley relay . Bevan went on to take pool records in the 200 yard fly and 200 yard breaststroke too, and Crane took the pool record in the 500 yard freestyle. Bevan, Crane, and Meade each came in first three times, Natasha Zabka and Hayashi twice, while Baldwin, Allaire. Buchanan, and O'Donnell each took first once. The divers, Zabka, Nicole Rubin, and Amy Lamphere took first, second, and third, respectively in botlt diving events. The men started their meet with a pool record in the 400 yard medley relay as well: Mike Humphreys, Johnson, Bill Humphreys, and Bowden. In the next event, the I 000 yard freestyle, Makarowski won the event in a Middlebury pool record and a Union school record time. Makarowski and Bowden each had three victories during the meet, Mike Humphreys, Bill Humphreys, Johnson, and Riley each had two, and Wolfe had one as well. Divers Chris Bryan and Vinnie Obermeier placed well also. Overall, it was a stellar week for the Swimming Dutchmen. ne biggest duel meet of the season is coming up this Satur- day at home against rival Hamilton- at 2:00. ll1is meet will begin with Senior Recognition and is expected to be a very ex- citing meet as well. So come on out and support the team! ( - - wa she Co tur< Av by Sh: ebr 29. cui cui As by or! 30 rad As Up da) fas we sar Ma Cl tl 2 c u g Sl I: p

