Arts & Entertainment The Concordiensis • April27, 1995 •Page 13 · 1 • ' • • • • • ~, : • • • • , s· TJIE R'EEL J?J(]J?lJRE by L.arry Paska,COI~~Qrdiensis Film Critic . . · · .. :·· : ... -~ ' ' ' • '' ' - - ' ' • • • ' < ' '• • ~· • ' ' L • :•J Jefferson in Paris Deserves to Be Made History able historical documentary, lose themselves in foolishness. This is trash, and trash no one can un- derstand. \Jefferson in Paris. \ Starring Nick Nolte, Greta Scacchi, Michael Lonsdale. Directed by James Ivory. Rated PG-13. Touchstone Pictures. Rating: **(out of four) Quentin Tarantino lists Mer- chant/Ivory films among his few pet peeves. And after viewing the newest overkill from producer Ismail Merchant and director James Ivory, it becomes very easy to see the Pulp Fiction-creator's point. Jefferson in Paris is a stuffy, extravagant, supertl uous journey back in time. This time, instead of creating the perfect art-house fare, the Merchant/Ivory camp has de- cided to go all-out mainstream. With the casting of Nick Nolte, one of the most respected char- acters in American history. Sadly, the highbrowlanguage and lackofmomentum keeps the film neatly inaccessible to the very audience the filmmakers want to attract. But then. would those who patronize Tommy Boy even bother to approach this one? Nolte is an obvious casting choice; mainly because he just looks so much like the Jefferson seen in paintings. But this is the fatal mistake ofMerchantllvory: casting based on looks,. not abil- ity. Their choice for the lead role drowns the film right from the start in a sea of \this can't possi- bly be our American hero we're watching on screen!\ Just watch- ing Nolte's face on screen re- minds the viewer of his earlier works, like 48 Hrs., Cape Fear, and complete duds like Blue Chips. Ivory never makes the camera gaze at this historical tig- ure in awe; rather, he manages to further elaborate on the fact the story is not about Jefferson, but Nick Nolte playing Jefferson. His presence completely detracts from any credibility. And while it's admirable that he has landed such a serious role, his manner- isms have not matured. He still has the same drab, semi-cynical tone he displays in all his mov- ies. And honestly, did Thomas Jefferson speak with a different Southern accent to every person Feroza LaBonne to Present Two Free Concerts Courtesy of the Peiforming Arts Department F eroza LaBonne and two of her advanced prize-winning piano students Dawn Kim and Wei-Jen Yuan will present two free con- certs, one on Thursday April 27 at the Schenectady County Com- munity College at I I :30 am in the Bagley Building, Room 160. The other concert is on Sunday April 30 at Union College Arts Build- ing Room 215 at 3:00pm. The program will include the two-piano Concerto K. 365 by Mozart, the Sonata in E Flat, Op. 27, No 1 by Beethoven, Impromptus by Schubert and Reinhold and a Prelude by Rachmaninov. Feroza LaBonne' s preparation for these concerts was made pos- sible by winning a grant from the Piano Technicians Guild - Mu- sic Teachers National Associa-· tion. This national award goes to one nationally certified teacher each year, chosen from across the fifty states. LaBonne holds the Licentiate Piano Teaching Diplomas from the Royal College of Music, Lon- don and the Trinity College of Music, London. Her Master's Degree is from the Cleveland In- stitute of Music - Case Western Reserve University Joint Music program. In 1985 she won a fully funded Fellowship based on her work as Music Critic of the Times of India. Bombay. This Music Critics Association award enabled her to attend the Summer lnsti- Feroza LaBonne (Courtesy of Peiforming Arts Departmant) tute at the Eastman School of Music in Rochester. Both Dawn Kim and Wei-jen Yuan are first-place winners in the Sonatina School ofMusic Pi- ano Competitions in 1994 and 1995 respectively. Dawn is also the winner of the Capitol District's first Young Artist Showcase Program and gave solo recitals at General Electric, St. Anthony's and the Unitarian So- ciety. She was recently the fea- tured artist at the Schenectady Symphony New Member Coffee Morning. She is a sophomore at Niskayuna High School. Wei-Jen Yuan at age 11 is the youngest student to win the posi- tion of orchestral pianist with the Empire Stale Repertory Orches- tra and recently gave his first pub- lic recital at RPI Chapel Cultural Center. A sixth grade student at Troy's LaSalle Institute, Wei-Jen was the pre-concert pianist for Melodies of Christmas at Proctor's Theater. he knew? When he does not at- tempt a lame accent, he sounds likehe'sjust aching to get.in an- other fight with Eddie Murphy. The audience almost has both: this film seems like it goes on for 48 hours. The film supposedly depicts Jefferson as the ambassador to France during the early days of America. So early, Washington has not even been elected Presi- dent yet. What he is actually do- ing in Paris is unclear, with the he! p of dialogue so incomprehen- sible one can only assume it's unimportant business. Another fatal flaw is Ivory's decision to put the focus on Jefferson's sex life in Paris rather than a biogra- phy of the foundation of Ameri- can diplomacy in the I 8th cen- tury. Jefferson meets and falls in love with a married British woman (a completely unrecog- nizable Scacchi), but she returns to England, sending him letters and not adding much of interest to the story. Then Jefferson 1 usts for his adolescent female slave- servant, but this relationship never develops. The poorest se- duction scenes to come around in a while ensue. They are ineffec- tive largely because the scenes end before their passion is fully realized. Jefferson may love his servant, but the viewer is never allowed to appreciate it. Lonsdale (whose most famous role was as the James Bond vil- lain in Moonraker), looks de- pressed and depressing as the King of France. One would think the connection between the King and Jefferson would have been more pivotal to the story, but Lonsdale is discards it in many scenes, mostly used as back- ground more than anything else. All of this leads to one thing: what's the point of making this film? As a historical narrative, 1t only serves to show audiences that Jefferson was a womanizer who did not bother upholding his own standards (he promises never to marry again on his wife's deathbed). Does anyone really profit from learning about Jefferson's sexual encounters in France two hundred years ago? Surprisingly enough, Merchant and Ivory, the two respected film- makers, one would think they had all the power to pull off a remark- Not all is lost Merchant and Ivory's attention to period detail has not withered any, so movie- goers can savor in extremely lav- ish production designs and glori- ous costumes. The 18th century is recreated to perfection. In ad- dition, the editing and score add some life to a lifeless work. The music, if anything, only elabo- rates on the notion that all this flamboyancy leads to nOthing. The end result is a movie that examines anything that made Jefferson so important in Amen- can history, but bring down the American icon to a cheap ro- mance novel-level. It's as if Danielle Steel wrote the scnpt, and Merchant/Ivory changed all the conversation to include words you thought could only be found in those Klingon-English dictio- naries. A sorry attempt that de- serves to be lost in time. r Write for the Concordiensis!! Call X6155 VISUAL ARTS EXHIBIT UNION COLLEGE ARTS BUILDING ATRIUM APRIL 20-29, 1995 OPEN DAILY 9AM-6PM NO ADMISSION PUBLIC WELCOME

Page 14 • April27, 1995 • The Concordiensis Fashion Cafe by Leena Mankad A & E Co-Editor The super models are now try- ing their hand at the restaurant business with the opening of the new Fashion Cafe in New York City. Elle MacPherson, Naomi Campbell, and Claudia Schiffer are partners in the new enterprise which recently opened last week. The brainchild ofToinmaso Buti, this 280 seat eatery is the first in a soon to be global chain ofF ash- ion Cafes. According to some critics, it can be considered Hard Rock Cafe wanna-bes So what exactly is on the menu? Tofu? Miner:al water and celery sticks? \No No,\ accord- ing to MacPherson. There is nor- mal food on the menu for those that are not pencil thin. Burgers, quesadillas, and pork chops, are among the regular menu items. The Fashion Cafe's menus will re- semble those of its sister food chains Planet Hollywood and Motown Cafes. The food will be American in flavor and very trendy. Entertainment theme restau- rants are taking the country by storm. From coast to c0ast one can find a wide variety from The Hard Rock Cafe, Planet Holly- wood, Motown Cafe, Dive!, House of Blues, and Television City. Each chain features a host of celebrity partners which draw hungry tourists and fans hoping for a glimpse of a celebrity on a given night. These restaurants do extremely well, in tenns of prof- its because of celebrity endorse- ments. Also, each has a stylish decor with Hollywood memora- bilia. Hey, check one ofthese restau- rants out the next time you're in a major city. I was recently in the Planet Hollywood in New York City and bumped into Pauley Shore. Who knows, maybe when you go to one of these celebrity hangouts, you might meet someone who is re- ally famous. A Dark Journey Into New York's Underworld in Kiss of Death \Kiss of Death. \ Starring David Caruso. Samuel L. Jackson, Nicholas Cage. Stanley Tucci. Directed by Barbet Schroeder. Rated R, Twentieth Century Fox Pictures. Rating: ***(out of four) Last year, amidst all the con- troversy surrounding Caruso's departure from. the hit TV show, NYP D Blue, to pursue a film ca- reer, a figure emerged. This fig- ure stated that Caruso would have to film 80 episodes of the police crime drama to equal the pay- check he would collect from star- ring in a feature-length film. With an ego the size of California and an equally big desire for instant fame and cash (the perfect ingre- dients for any big-screen star), Caruso turned his back on his TV status and attempted to make a name for himself in the movies. Moves like these are not always failures: Tim Allen starred in last fall's huge hit, The Santa Clause, and John Goodman left TV's Roseanne frequently to star in such hits as The Flintstones and Arachnophobia. And Caruso's $1 million salary for Kiss cer- tainly was not a blunder on his part. The fact that he should not have left NYP D Blue is irrelevant the fact that Fox was willing to pay him big for doing so is. Caruso, however, does not look much like a silver screen star. He's short, rather skinny, and has that annoying orangish hair. He does not appear very threatening; in fact, even an old lady could knock him over effortlessly. But Caruso's mannerisms make him tough. His talk, his low-whisper threats ... he is imposing when he does not seem like he could be. For all intents and purposes, so was James Cagney. Yes, Caruso and Cagney are quite alike, both being tiny characters that hold their own by being relentlessly tough. In Kiss, Caruso plays ex-con Jimmy Kilmartin, who wants to go straight and raise his family with his wife (Helen Hunt, in an underused role). When his cousin Ronnie (Michael Rapaport) begs him to perform one last job, Kilmartin reluctantly agrees. Of course, Kilmartin gets caught, and is sentenced to jail for three years. Tucci, as an assistant D .A assigned to get the names of Kilmartin's other partners in crime, adds good power to the story, playing the part neither too obnoxiously nor too calmly. When Kilmartin agrees to release some names, he is also sent to spy on Little Junior (Cage), whose father (Big Junior) was a crime boss and owns the local strip bar. Kilmartin and Little Junior form an uneasy alliance, while Kilmartin reports back to a po- lice detective named Calvin (Jackson, once again terrific), who was shot while arresting Kilmartin years before. Set against the backdrop of New York's underworld, and sharply directed. by Schroeder, Kiss of Death is certainly sty I ish and fun to watch. Based on the 1947 suspense-thriller of the same title and adapted by Rich- ard Price, the film never captures that 1940's sense of film noir, or even attempts to update it very much. But the characters (par- ticularly Cage as Little Junior) are memorable· and certainly a de- light to watch on screen. Cage, The Visual Arts Department presents Guest Lecturer Arts & Entertainment ~udith Tolnick Curator, University of Rhode Island who will speak on \Where all exhibitions must be 'special': the academic gallery\ Thursday, April 27, 1995 1:30pm Arts Building 215 obscenely pumped up for the part, bench presses the dancers in his joint. Jackson, as the detective, sheds tears from his right eye con- stantly, the result of the shooting when he attempted to arrest Kilmartin. This trait adds a unique touch to the character. In a lot of ways, the style is reminiscent of Pulp Fiction, al- though far inferior. The charac- ters are richly drawn like Quentin Tarantino's, and they go through many of the same motions and dilemmas as their Pulp counter- parts. Unfortunately, Caruso has a lot of maturing to do on the big screen. He is too weak for the role, and does not deserve to push aside the emerging talents of Cage and Jackson so easily. Above all, the fatal flaw of the film is its pacing. Pulp Fiction turned two-and-a half-hours into ten minutes; Kiss makes its under- two hour-running time drag into tomorrow. The music score is uninspiring, and while the cam- era is in motion constantly, the pacing is so slow that you won- der if anything important is about to happen. Even if nothing hap- pens, there is plenty to see. The . colors, particularly in the club, bring out each scene's tone in de- lightful detail. Look for Caruso to appear in many films now that his career is established {and mainstream popularity is imminent). Perhaps he will improve, but he is really the true detriment to the film (next to the pacing). And with all the publicity surrounding his appear- ance in the film, perhaps more at- tention should have been focused on Cage and Jackson, who are the film's unsung heroes. Free and Open to the Public IEF Funded Lecture The Department of Visual Arts Presents om Butter Visiting Sculptor Tuesday, May 2,1995,11:30-12:20 pm Arts Building 215 Sculptor Tom Butter will present a slide talk on his work from 11:30 am to 12:20 pm on Tuesday, May 2 in Arts Building room 215. Mr. Butter shows with the Curt Marcus Gallery in New York City. He is represented in prominent collections including the Metropolitan Museum of Art and has taught at nu- merous art schools in the Northeast including Yale University, the Tyler School of Art., the Rhode Is- land School of Design, and the Parsons School of Art and Design.

-I i I I . Calendar The Concordiensis • April 27, 1995 • Page 15 CALENDAR 4/27/95-5/5/95 \ ' Thursday, 04/27/95 9:00a Dean of Stud~nts Staff Meeting, CC 302 9:30a U Call, CC 409 lO:OOa Going Greek Sale, CC ATRIUM lO:OOa Library Meeting, CC 204 11 :30a Baccalaureate Meeting, CC 203 11 :30a Campus Action NI:eeting, CC 205 12:00p Spanish Language Table, CC 3Q2 12:00p \Plate Full of Questions\ Peer Facilitators, CC 12:30p 12:30p 1:30p 5:00p 5:30p 6:00p 6:00p 6:45p 7:00p 7:00p 7:30p 8:00p 8:00p 8:00p STRAUSS (305) German Language Table, CC 203 Chemistry Seminar, HUMANITIES 019 Pep Band Meeting, CC 203 Affiliates Phone-a-thon, HH DINING ROOM Big Brothers/Big Sisters, CC 409 SHPE Meeting, CC 204 Ballet II, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (I 08) IFC ·Meeting, CC 302 Big Brothers/Big Sisters Meeting, CC 410 Senior Class Meeting, SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 The Calculus Center; BAILEY 203 Delta Psi Delta Meeting, CC 205 Here's to U Meeting, CC 302 Chet's Open, Senior Night, CHET'S Friday, 04/28/95 1 O:OOa Going Greek Sale, CC ATRIUM 12:00p Annual Scholarship Luncheon, HH OLD CHAPEL I :OOp Alumni Council Meeting, CC 203 2 :OOp COSA Meeting, CC 205 4:00p TGIF, Bar-B-Q & Band, Chet's 4:30p Meeting with Candidate, BUTTERFIELD 300 6:30p Intervarsity Christian Fellowship, CC MOBIL (406) 7 :OOp ASCE Concrete Canoe Races Dinner, HH OLD CHAPEL 7:00p Philomathean Hilomathean Society, HH MILANO LOUNGE 1 O:OOp All Night Study Room, HH DINING ROOM Saturday, 04/29/95 7:00a Alumni Council, SOCIAL SCIENCES 012 and 014 7:30a Alumni Council Meeting, NOTT MEMORIAL 9:00a Accepted Students Day, CC AUDITORIUM, HH DINING ROOM, HH MILANO LOUNGE, and HH OLD CHAPEL 1 O:OOa Going _Greek Sale, CC ATRIUM 12:00p Alumni Council Meeting, CC UPPER CLASS DINING I :OOp Alumni Council Meeting, CC 203, 204, 205, 302, 409 I :OOp Alumni Council Meeting, SOCIAL SCIENCES I en, I 04, 105 - SEMINAR, 110, and 112 7 :OOp ASCE: Concrete Canoe Dinner, CC UPPER CLASS DINING HALL Sunday, 04/30/95 12:30p Special Olympics Practice, ASTROTURF (BAILEY FIELD) 4 :OOp Adventurer's Guild, CC 409 6:00p Member/Guest Bridge Game, CC UPPER CLASS DINING HALL 6:3.0p Phi Iota Alpha, CC 409 7 :OOp Sunday Religious Service, HH OLD CHAPEL 7 :OOp · Schenectady Figure Skating Meeting, SS 110 lO:OOp All Night Study Room, HH DINING ROOM Monday, 05/01/95 4:00p Campus Ministry Study, CC STRAUSS (305) 4:30p Modern Dance-Section II, PERFORMING ARTS (108) 5 :OOp Affiliates Phone-a-thon, HH DINING ROOM 5: 15p Residence Life, CC 205 6:00p Combined Ballet, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (108) 6:00p Scuba Diving Class, BAILEY 205 6:30p Union College Choir Rehearsal, ARTS 215 6:30p U Call Symphony, CC AUDITORIUM 8:00p Delta Psi Delta, CC 302 9:00p Social Committee Meeting. CC 409 Tuesday, 05/02/95 8:00a NSF Grant Meeting, CC 302 8:30a 25 Years of Co-Ed at Union, CC 204 9:30a U CALL, CC 409 1 I :OOa Residence Life Meeting, CC 205 I I :OOa Voice Mail Training, CC 203 11 :30a Faculty Soup & Beverage, HH OLD CHAPEL 12:00p Japanese Table, CC 204 12:00p Values Group Meeting, HH MILANO LOUNGE 12:30p Flute Choir Rehearsal, ARTS 3 I 3 2:00p Managers' Meeting, Dining Services, CC 205 3 :45p Commencement Committee Meeting, CC 203 4:30p Pen Hellenic Meeting, CC 204 4:30p Panel of Visiting Russians, HUMANITIES 019 5:00p Affiliates Phone-a-thon, HH DINING ROOM 5:30p Ballet III, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (108) 6:00p U B Glad, CC 204 7:00p Ballet I, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (1 08) 7 :OOp Portuguese/Brazilian Club, CC MOBIL ( 406) 7.:00p Union College Orchestra Rehearsal, MEMORIAL CHAPEL 7:30p_ The Calculus Center, BAILEY 203 8:30p Intervarsity Christian Fellowship, CC STRAUSS (305) , Wednesday, 05/03/95 8:30a Human Relations Meeting, CC 203 9:30a U Call, CC 409 11 :OOa JFK High School Students, HH OLD CHAPEL 11 :OOa Admissions Office, HH DINING ROOM 12: 15p Portuguese Table, CC 204 3 :30p Bicentennial Steering Committee Meeting, CC 203 4:30p Introduction to Dance Movement, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (108) 5:00p Meditation Group, CC 302 5 :OOp Affiliates Phone-a-thon, HH DINING ROOM 5:30p East Asian Studies Program Picnic, CC PATIO 6:00p Modern Dance-Section I, PERFORMING ARTS (I 08) 6:00p Girl Scout Meeting, Residence Life, CC 409 6:00p A.O.P. Tutoring Session, SOCIAL SCIENCES 010 &014 6:00 Campus Operations Meeting, CC 205 6:3 Op Union College Choir Rehearsal, ARTS 215 7:00p Jazz Ensemble Rehearsal, ARTS 313 7:30p Dance Ensemble Meeting, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (108) 7:30p The Calculus Center, BAILEY 203 8:00p Chet's Open, CHET'S f Thursday, 05/04/95 9:30a U Call, CC 409 11 :30a Senior Class Gift Luncheon, HH DINING ROOM 12:0op· Spanish Language Table, CC 302 12:00p \Plate Full of Questions\ Peer Facilitators, CC STRAUSS (305) 12:00p Junior History Majors Meeting, HH OLD CHAPEL 12:30p German Language Table, CC 203 I :30p Physics Colloquium, SCIENCE & ENG. NW 114 3 :30p NSF Grant Meeting, CC 302 4 :OOp Voice Mail Training, CC 409 5 :OOp Affiliates Phone-a-thon, HH DINING ROOM 6 :OOp SHPE Meeting, CC 204 6:00p Ballet II, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (108) 7 :OOp Big Brothers/Big Sisters,. CC 410 7:30p The Calculus Center, BAILEY 203 8 :OOp Delta Psi Delta Meeting, CC 205 9 :OOp International Beer Fest, CHET'S 9 :OOp Israeli Independence Day Reception, CC MOBIL ( 406) Friday, 05/05/95 8:00a Edward Villella Dancers Rehearsal, MEM. CHAPEL 2:00p Voice Mail Training, CC 409 2:00p COSA Meeting, CC 205 3 :30p Faculty Research Seminar, Economics Dept, SS 110 4:00p American Assoc. of Teachers of French, CC AUD. 4:30p Term in Washington Meeting, SOCIAL SCIENCES 10-l 6:30p Intcrvarsity Christian Fellowship. 'cc MORIL (406) 7:00p Philomathean Society, HH MILANO LOUNGE l O:OOp All Night Study Room. HH DINING ROOM 'I I ! I !.

'' '' ·- h \• .. , ... ' ,, Page-16 • April27, 1995 • The Concordiensis Personai/Classifieds Personals Congratulations to the newly elected Shakti E-bomd co-chairs: (the ladies rule!) Amine, A vani, Nalini Treasurer: \Sweety-Pie\ Vinod Secretary: Chirag and Saunders (be nice!) Historian· Raza (camera-man) Good Luck to all of you for a very prosperous 95-96 SHAKTI. Love, Celica & Shveta Shakti would like to thank Dean Sorum for being a great advisor! Thank you from all of us! Can't wait 'till May IOth ... yummy -CM Shveta- It's already week 5! Aaaarghh! Physics anyone? *@ ... To the wonder twins (whoever you are)- Three are better than two! Love, the wonder triplets Looking for a good time? SWM, · 20,8 1/2\ looking for the \right\ woman. Could you be he.r? If you are , reply in the personals. Seth & Rob- Thanks for Thurs. night- but buy a new blender. -RA TocheesyB- Almost over! I can't wait. Love, cheesy D To U know who· A model Union, a bra here, some boxers there. Man what a kad! Gosh what a communion! From, those who know OW- Nice haircut. -Friendly Neighborhood Barber Dear Elvis- Thank God you mowed the fro Love, your brother Roomie- ! really think we need to find our islands. This weekend, it's you, me and Boones. I can't wait! Love,D To the Gang- Let's just relax and hang out his weekend. We don't do it enough anymore. Think .of some inter- esting stress relieving activities -Dirty To our favorite pledges- You're almost done! Good l~ck with your \slightly inconvenient week.\ Love,DS&DF To my favorite rowers- Good Luck on Saturday! -Sed Dear Bri- Thanks for the X-rays. I miss you now that I have no time. We'll hang out soon. Love,AR To my lay out editor- Thanks for putting up with me during the wee hours of the morning. I really appre.ciate aH . of your help. Expect a nice sur- prise at the end of the term. -:Sedwich I need some Iovin', give it to me honey, I need some Iovin' Hey, you. Don't tell me there's no hope at all, together we stand, divided we fall \Touch tne nicely\ To kid Marrero (Joker)- You are never around anymore. I miss you! \A snap shot in the family album.\ Don't work to hard -your little bro Classijieds · GRADS or spon to be! Looking for a change or something new? Na- tional Company looking for tal- ented individuals with positive attitude, teachable and motivated a must. Training provided. For more information call 452-9749 Europe $169 o/w Caribbean/Mexico $189 r/t California $12 9 If you can beat these prices start your own damn airline. Air- Tech Ltd. (212) 219-7000 iFJfo@ aerotech.com ATTENTION: EARN MONEY READING BOOKS! Up to $500 weekly. Choose subject matter. For more details call: (206) 362-4304 ext E041 Debate for President of Student Forum and Junior Trustee Let's make this year's election more than just a popularity contest! ! ! ! Come hear what the candidates have to say, so that you can vote for the best candidate. .. Thursday, April 27th, 7:00PM at Chet's Elections for President, Junior Trustee, VP Administration, VP Finance and VP Campus Life held April 28th in the College Center. The Peer Facilitators Present: .... . .. .... '' ·'' Dr. Bernita Berry Thursday, April27 8:00AM Colle·ge, Center Auditorium \Race & Ethnic Relations: Living in a Multicultural Community.\ Tuesday, ,May2· 8:00PM College Center Auditorium Letty Cottin Pogre·pin \Have W Qme~t,Changed Power or Has'Power Changed Women?\

Advertisement The Concordiensis • April27, 1995 ·Page 17 BE LESS PRODUCTIV.E -EOFFICE~ @I:e office has always been are some simple ways you can a place to get ahead. produce less waste at ::.~~tie:~'':!~~ Unfortunately, it's . work. When also a place where a you're at the copier, lot of natural resources start It takes 95% less energy to mam.ifacture products from recycled materials. only make the . coptes you to fall behind. Take a look around the next time you're at work. See how many lights are left on when people leave. See how Use both sides of the paper when writing a memo. much paper is being wasted. How much electricity is being used to nm computers that are left on. Look at how much water is being wasted in the restrooms. And how much solid waste is being thrown out in the trash car1s. We bet it's a lot. Now, here need. Use both sides of the paper when writing a memo~ Turn off your light when you leave. Use a lower watt bulb ·in your-lamps. Drink-your - coffee or tea out of mugs instead of throwaway rups. Set up a recycling bin for aluminmn cans and one for bottles. And when youre in the bathroom IT'S A CONNECTED WORLD. DO YOUR SHARE. brushing your teeth or washing your face, don't let the faucet run. Remember, if we use fewer resources today, we'll save more for -tomorrow. Which would Drink out if mugs truly be a job instead of throwaway cups. n d we one. FOR MORE INFORM.ATJON AND TIPS CAlL l-800-MY-SHARE. Every ton if paper not lan4filled saves3 cubic yards if space. ..;. , .. ,J:Earth Share

Page 18 • April27, 1995 • TheConcordiensis Men's Tennis Splits h~· Ken Berma m Sport.<; Editor The \kn ·s Tennis team contin- ued pia~ \\ 1th l\\o tight matches this past \\eek. one agamst Oneonta. and the other ~t A lhany They managed to ..:om~.: out with one \\in and one.loss.lea\ing the1r record at a tidy 3-3. \\,ith J duel meets left to rl:.l! at I !amilton. Williams. and the big. se:Json finale. I lomt:cnmi ng match against a resb Ilart\\ id squad Does ann me else think it\s a hit odd that all three nfrhesc tcarns have eight letters in their name') Regardless o ftlle signi fi- cancc ofthis. one thing is certam- this is not the t\pe ofrhing l should he \Hitmg ahout The tirst match of the '.\cek \\as a make-up alTair on Thursday against Oneonta For those ofyou that don't remember whv this match \\as canceled m the first place. too had Regardless. Union lost this one 5-4. the second straight luss hy that score Just I ike St La\HCnce last \veek. they played \\ell. hut not 4uitc well enough to \\ 111 The l\'vO teams spin the smgles. \\ith lln1on \s#2. #4. and #o rlavers '' tnn1ng This included Breu ( Be~atch-a) Sh;1p1ro. \\ ho contmued on the tornd race he has..heen on all sea- son lfis v·ictory (h-1. 7-6) was IllS filth singles \\in in a row. af- ter) matches (to figure out his record. you do the math) Other \\ll1ners included Jason Reckman ( 6-:2. 6-4) and Jordan Pinsker ( 6- 2. 7-n) The doubles matches started out well for Union, as the all-freshman tandem of Steve Chin and Jason Beckman won h~mdil) Unfortunately for the Dutchmen. neither the squad of Shapiro/ Jason Fishbein. nor the team of Steve Klopfer!Jeff Kas~Jwitz could \Vin. This loss left Union he low 500 for the first team. since they lost their first matl.:h of the season, with a tough match coming against Albany The score on Saturday was 5- 4 but on this dav. Union was able . - to \\.Jil that crucial 9th match. to C\cnuptheirrecord at 3-3 In a reverse of the last score. It was the doubles teams that bailed out the singles players Jason Beckman and :lordan Pinsker both won for the second time in a row. but they \\ere the only ones. Even Brett (En Fuego) Shapiro lost. cndmg his Gehrig(Ripk in)~ I ike streak He. along with his partner Fishbein, avenged this loss by winning their doubles match. 8- 3 Also winning in doubles was Klopfer/Kasowitz (9-R). who were able to shake oft\ their loss to 011eonta This was a solid VIC- tory. and credit should be given to the team for hemg able to shake off two tight losses in a rmv. and then win the third As Shap1ro rut it. \The team is definitely improv- ing as the season is progressing We just have to realize as a team \\hat it takes to \\ln. and get it done .. I lopefully. they \Viii be able to realize what that is and tin- ish the season ahove 500 Sports Men's Rugby Crushed By Trinity by Bill Ackerbauer Contributing Wrtier Union Colleges's illustrious Men's Rugby Football Club headed east this weekend for it's most challenging tournament to date The elemental spirits grinneda nasty little grin at the hoys in garnet as they entered a weekend of \great ruc.king rugby\. in Providence. Rhode Island Spirits were high. and serums were low. hut Union's ruggers sutTered the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune. losing to the Trinitv French ~ - Poodles. in a hazy. predawn match Chinks in the armor in Union-s otherwise stalwart de- tense were located and used to the advantage of their adversar- ies. leading to their !5-0 victory Union's ruggers woke up soon after this defeat Digging 1011 S\vine and watching the triumphs of clubs like Army and George Mason University, Union's daunt- less band stepped up to the pitch, fora remarkably grueling match versus Northeastern University. Will \Muldoon\ HatchJedthe A- Side into battle and into the try zone, but his Herculean efforts were futile. as lady luck wagged her naughty parts in Union's gen- eral direction Despite great play by Jaso11 \Midnight Rendezvous Peak\ Sanabia and Seth \Blah\ Brown_ NGrtheastem's men took the day with a spiffy try early in the first half Union's ruggers got mighty intense in the second half, hut were not able to capitalize on the plays created by Mike \Hangin with the boys\ GiH, and Chris \Whip me. beat me. l:nake me write bad checks\ Bangs. Union's masochists were startled and im- pressed by a high-tech but cer- tainly illegal tactic used by North- eastern: the beaming down of a hooker from a Klingon warship orbiting above the pitch in time to intercept a quick throw in pitched by Union's Bill \Rubber Neck\ Ackerbauer. In light of this dis- play, Union's Tom \Coach and a half' Milner has considered the . use of time travel apparatus in offensive play. Look for it at Union's next home match against Middlebury on Saturday, May 6th. This coming Saturday is the earth shaking climax of the URFC's spring season-the State Tournament. It will beheld atthe Windhover pitch, just across the river inCiiftonPark Undefeated in conference play_ your boys in crisp new jerseys will be sure to make a name for themselves Your support is always appreci- ated, so come on out to cheer us on and be rowdy. The lucky spec- tator who wins our annual raffle will win a no-expenses paid night of unbridled passion on the French Riviera, with Jim \Care to dance\\ Kochan Good luck! Bowl--A- Thon for, The Vito A. Masi Memorial Center for Non~ 1'iolence April30~ 9-12:tl0pm Revere Lanes ,. ' . ,. 1752 State St. For more information & sponsor forms, contact Maria 785-0327 ALL CAMPUS FREE BARBECUE Attention all FRIDAY, APRIL 28TH 4- 7:30PM AT CHET'S FREE FOOD THE BAR WILL BE OPEN PREMIUM BEER SPONSORED BY CHET'S, DINING SERVICES, AND THE COLLEGE CENTE·R students!! Applications for committee positions for 1995-6 are now available in the Student Activities Office, CC 408. Applications must be turned in to Student Activities by 4:30 PM on Friday, May 19th. Each committee application must be accompanied by a separate essay. You must apply for as many positions as you like. Please add whether you attend to go on a term abroad. ·If you have any questions, please contact Elissa D. Hecker at 346-9140.\

Page 18 • April27, 1995 • The Concordiensis Men's Tennis Splits h~ h:t·n Bermarn Sport.\' Editor ., ht· \kn·, ·r~..·nnt-.. team Ctlntm- ue,! ['l.t\ \\ ttll t\\ 11 nght m~ttche-.. t h 1' r'; 1 ~ t '' t'l' k P IlL' ~~ t,: a tn s t ( )J1t't11l[.l .111d tilL' nth~.:r ;tt :\lh;ttl\ l'h ... ·\ lll.lll.lt!t'd ltl t'PI1ll' out \\ tth ot1L' 11111 .md P!1l' lu\\· ka' tn~ rh ... ·1r re ... ·nrd .11 ;1 ttLh ~--; '' tth ~ d lll' I 111L'L'l~ k t't ttl r Ll\ at ll:tmtlt!ln \\'ilkun\ ;md thl' bt~. 'L';I'dlll t'lll,lft• fft11llL'L'llll1111t! lll.Jt,:h ;]~.1111\t .! f'l'\k \ l LHI\\ ilk ~. 7-hl TheJouhlesmatches startl.'d out well for Union. as the all-freshman tatH.:Iem of Ste\ e Chtn c~nd Jason Beckman \\011 h;mJih l :nfortunatch ti1r the Dutchmen. nctther the SLJU;td llf I Sh.tptrn .la-..on l·tshht•tn. nur the i team tlf Stl'\t' Klopfer .Jeff\ K<t-..m\ 1!1 could '' 111 l'ht-.. loss kti l '111o11 hl'lo\\ ~tl!l tin the first tt·:tm. -..111ee thc\ lo:--1 tht•tr t\irst m;ttdl Pftht• -..ea:--un. \\ tth a tough !ll;Jtch COilllll!\ ;tt!;llll\l :\I hall\ !'he '>L'tlrt' on SaturJa\ 11as _.:;. -1 but tlll thl\dd\ l 'nH1n \\a-...tbk ~~.nud l lPL'\ .Ill\ t11ll.' L+•t' thlllh. \t1 \\Ill th.lt L'rtll'lal 'lth lllatch. Ill 11 \a hit ,1JJ tlut ~dl three llflht•-,t• tc<~m-. h,t\ t' ~·tt,:ht IL'tter-. 111 th~.·tr n~trnt·' Rt·~.trdk-..-, ufthc ~lt!lllt'l­ \·;mc~.· tlllt' thmg 1-. l'LTtam- t hI\ I~ 11 \ 1t t h l' t \ !'t' II t' t h Ill g I -,!wuiJ he '' rtt 111g ahout I he tir-.t lll.Jtch t~ftht· \\Cd. \\a~ .1 m,J!,~.·-up .tff.ttr 1111 l hur-.J.t\ ;tgam ... t ( lnconta For thosl' oh ou that Jon't remL·mhcr \\ h1 thts lll,lll'h \\.1:-- ClllL'L'il'd 111 the t'trst pl.tcL·. ttl(l had Rq!:lrdks:--. [ 'n1o11 l1ht tilt-.. tlllt' '--l the '>L'l'tltll1 'tr.11c:ht fp-..... h1 tlut ~core .lu-.t i fi,e St I ,111 rt•nce l.t:-1 \\l'd. the\ pl.tlnl 1\l'il nut lllll t..jllitt' \\t'll L'lltlll:..!h tt1 \\Ill .I ilL' tl\ll IC,llllS 'l'llt til~.· \'n~k .... \\ 1thl nton .., :::2. ::~ .tlld t:h ri.J\ er ... \\ lllnlng l'ht-. ~n,·:liclt',l Hrt•lt 1 lh•;t;IIL'h-,1 J .'lur,ro '' 11o cnntmucd on the t11rr1J p~tcc he ha ..... hl'l'll n11 all Sl'a- 'ilil JIJ-., \ICillr\ (('-i. -:\.( \\;IS :11'> filth ',Jilgk-, \\Ill Ill .1 r11\\ :tf- lL'r \' nutcht·s t tP lll!Wl' out 111-. rt·c,lrd. \t1U dothc math\ ()tiler .,, l!lllt'f'i JtKiudcJ Ja-.on Beckman 1 \· ~ h--~ i .111d .lorcbn Jl;n-..1-.a (II- L'\ t'll up thctr rl'cord at 3-_; In a rner-.c tlt'the la-.t ~curl'. 11 \\as the douhk~ team ... that hailed uut the -..111glc-.. ria' crs Jason Bed man and .lorJan P1nsker hoth I\ on !'or the st•cond tunc Ill a ro\\. hut the\ '' l..'rt· the on h one::-. 1:' en Brett d ·n F uq;o J Sh~tptro lost. end 1 ng ht:-, C ielmg( Rrpktn )-ltkl' -.trl'ak lie. along \\ i!h hts rartner 1-,~hhl'lll. d\ engeJ thts lo-..s h' \\tnntng thetr Jouhil's match. X- -~ .\ bo '' llltllng 1n douhles \\as K I (1 r fc r 1\. .I ... (1 \\ I t / ( l)- X ) . \\ lw \\l'rt• ahlc to -..hake ulf the1r fuss tu ( lneunta lhts \\as a soltd \ lt:- ttlf\ ~md crcdtt should he ~\ L'l1 tu the tl'.lln ti1r remg .1bk to shakt• \1fft\\ot1ght lllo.;se-. 111 a r<J\\. and then'' rn thc tlmJ .\s Shar1rn rut I I. .. I he team I'-, Je fi nrtl'i\ lin rrm- Ill!! as the Sl'aSOil IS rrogrcssm~ j \\'e JLI'>I h:t\ L' to real IlL' a-, .1 team ''h~ll 11 ta~cs t11 \111 .md get 11 Jnnt· ·· I ltlrdull'. the1 \til ht· a hit' tn realt/e \\hat that 1s and tin- 1 :-.h the season ahm c :'I H l Sports Men's Rugby Crushed By Trinity by Bill Ackerbauer Cont1·ibuting Wrtier Umon Colleges's illustrious Men's Rugby Foothall Club headed east this weekend for it's most challenging tournament to date The elementa I spirits !!finned a nast\ I ittle grin at the hovs in garnet as the\ entered a \\eckend of \great ruck 111g rug h\ · . 1 n PrO\ tdencc. Rhode Island Spirits were high. and serums ''ere low. hut l 1 n inn· s ruggers suffered tht.? slings anJ ;.uro\\s of outrageous f(1ftune. lo-.lllg to the Trtntt\ French Pllodfe-; in ~~ ha;\. rreJa\\n match l'h111ks 111 the armor in l 'nwn · s ntht•n, '\L' <>tah1art de- fense '' erc lncatl'd ;md used to the ad\ anlage of thetr aJn~rsar­ ll'S. leadmg tn thetr I :'-0 'JCtof\ l 1 nton·s ruggers woke up sonn aticr thts defeat Digging mn s11 me and \\atchmg the triumphs ofcluhs l1ke .t\rm\ and Cie<1rge Mason University. Union's daunt- less hand stepped up to the pitch. for a remarkably grueling match versus Northeastern University Will ''Muldoon., Hatch led the A- Side into hattie and into the try zone. but his Herculean efforts \\ere futile. as lady luck wagged her naughtv parts inl!nton 's gen- eral direction Despite great play hv Jast11l \Midnight Rendezvous Peak·· Sanahta and Seth \Blah\ Brown. Northeastern's men took the Ja~· \\ tth a sp1ft\ trv earlv in the first half llnion's ruggcrs got In 1ghtv Intense In the second hal f. hut were not ahle to capitalize on the plavs created hv Mike \l!angin '' ith the hovs .. Ciill. and Chris \Wh1p me. heat me. make me write had checks\ Bangs Union's masochists were startled and Im- pressed hy a high-tech hut cer- tatnl~· illegal tactic used hy North- eastern the beaming down of a hooker from a Klingon \\arship Prhiting above the pitch in time to intercept a quick throw in pitched by Union's Bill \Rubber Neck\ Ackerbauer. In light of this dis- play, Union's Tom \Coach and a half' Milner has considered the use of time travel apparatus in offensive play Look for it at l fnion 's next home match against MiJdlt:hun on SaturJa)-. May 6th This coming Saturday IS the carth shaking climax of the l!RFCs spring season-the Stale Tournament It will he held at the Windhmcr pitch. JUst across the rivl.'r in Clifton Park Undefeated inconfcrence plav. your ho~·s in cnsp nc\\ _jerscvs \\Ill he sure !o make a name for themsl'lves Your support is alwavs appreci- ated. so comc on out to cheer us on and he nmdy The lucky spec- tator\\ ho wins our annual raffle ''ill \\in a no-ex.penses patd night of unhridled passion on the French Ri\ iera. with .lim \Care to dance\\ Kochan GooJ luck' Bowl-A- Thon for The Vito A. Masi Memorial Center for Non-Violence April30, 9-12:00pm Revere Lanes 1752 State St. For more information & sponsor forms, contact Maria 785-0327 ALL CAMPUS FREE BARBECUE ( Attention all \ FRIDAY, APRIL 28TH 4- 7:30PM AT CHET'S FREE FOOD THE BAR WILL BE OPEN PREMIUM BEER SPONSORED BY CHET'S, DINING SERVICES, AND THE COLLEGE CENTER students!! Applications for committee positions for 1995-6 are now available in the Student Activities Office, CC 408. Applications must be turned in to Student Activities by 4:30 PM on Friday, May 19th. Each committee application must be accompanied by a separate essay. You must apply for as many positions as you like. Please add whether you attend to go on a term abroad. If you have any questions, please contact Elissa D. Hecker at 346-9140. I

·- ... - Sports . The Concordiensis • April27, 1995 • Page 19 Slumping Baseball Hopes To Finish Strong by Jason Starr Sports Editor With only four games.l~ft and arecord.<>f6·20, Un.ionBaseball is not knocking on any doors. Tfuey now play for pride and the chance irnprovewithe~chgame, individually and as a team. Also, freshmen are getting playing time that they probably would not see under b~tter circumstances. A few have really made a differ- ence. Despite their disappointjng record the Dutchmen have kept their focus and have gotten at least one win in. every *ee~ of the season. 'Th:is week their lone win catneagainst Utica on a cold, cloudy, and windy Saturday af- ternoon. The win came right on the heals· of a 13-7 loss to the same Utica team: Earlier in the week,. the Dutch- men tookan Vassar, in their only non-doubleheader match-up. This· was 'also the only nine in- ning game played all yeat. It was a close game with good pitching from both sides. Union's Josh (notJeremy) Solodo pitched the complete game allowing only two unearned runs to cross the plate. Two is usually a score that the Dutchmen can top, but not this time. Union s.cored only one run and ended up losing the g;:~me 2- 1. The Utica games were split. After the first three innings of game one, Union. found them- selves facing an 11-0 deficit. Union taltied in the late innings but it was far too little. The final was 13-7. Senior Captain Dave Dagostino re'\injured his elbow in the second iilriing of this game and was relieved at second base by FrMhman Jeremy Pflaum. Pflaum made a name for himself this weekend with two clingers, both of which came on Sunday against Hamilton. the second Utica game was a much closer contest in which the Dutchmen squeaked out a two run victory. With the score tied inthe top ofthe seventh, Junior JafJlie Haver ripped a solo shot that put the Dutchmen ill position to win the game. Union added a buffer run in that same inning and went into the bottom of the last with a two run edge. This was more than Dave Kline needed as he pitched a one-two-three seventh to end 'the game. At this point, I really should sto,p. To say anything about Sunday's games would border on embarrassing. But I must speak the truth, as painful as it may be. Sunday's opponent was Hartwick. Maybe the boys were tired of being on the road or maybe the weather was getting to them. Whatever the case, the real Dutchmen were absent on SunM day. In two games, they lost by a combined score of29-8. The only bright spots were the two homers by unknown rookie Jeremy Pflaum. One came in the first game, the other in the second. B{:;th were the first Dutchman runs of their respective games. That's enough said about Sunday the 23rd. It's a day that most of us involved in Union Baseball would rather soon forget. So, that leaves two more op- ponents, four more games. It would be very impressive if this years team ended with double digits in the win colunm. Of cours~ that means they would have to win an four of their last games. It can be done though. It is never too late to tum a season around. Union Crew Enjoys Successful We,ekend by Jefferey Druzba Contributing Writer This past weekend was an ex- citing time for Union Crew. On Saturday evening in the Nott Me- morial, Mr. Brad Alan Lewis, a 1984 Olympic gold medalist in rowing, spoke of his experiences in the sport and the challenges he faced throughout his racing ca- reer. Mr. Lewis emphasized the importance of enduring through crossroads during competition with an acceptance of the conse- quences that one's decision at these crossroads might result in later. The presentation was fol- lowed by the team's annual fundraising dinner. The following day, Sunday, the team traveled to Saratoga for the Skidmore Invitational on the Fish Creek. Many Union crews posted impressive performances. The first victory of the day was had by the novice men as they won their race by two boat lengths over the next boat, Skidmore, followed by Albany and RPI even after a miserable start that placed them in last place at the beginning of the race. The novice men's squad included Rich Apostolou, John Cloutier, Bryan Serrell, Nick Papanickolas, Jason Monnell, Andrew Mallios, Andrew Siegel, Dana Wood, and Melissa lnfuma as coxswain. The novice women finished second to Skidmore while beating Albany in their race. The varsity crews also sampled victory as the varsity women's four defeated other crews by a boat length. Others in their race included Vassar, Geneseo, RPI, and Skidmore. The women's four included Kenley Smith, Sandy Druzba, CeCe Buchanan, and Caroline Nemet. The men's open eight looked impressive as they finished second to Skidmore while beating Albany and a sec- ond Skidmore eight. This Saturday, the team races at home on the Mohawk against the University of Rochester. Union Crew would love to see you there. Just three miles down VanVranken A venue. The races will prove to be as exciting as they were this past weekend in Saratoga. Write For Sports! Contact Ken or Jason @ X6155 Students interested . ''bY Greg Kalish StutfWn'ter PUBLIC DATA OUTLETS AVAILABLE AT NOTT in ushering for Commencement, June II, please see ·Mrs. Marra in 408 cc. Connect your portable computer to the Union College network at the Nott. Tenninal server ports are available for local access to the VAXcluster and unvax and Tardis. \How To\ sheets are available at the Nott.

Sports Slumping Baseball Hopes To Finish Strong by Jason Starr Sports Editor With only four games left and a record of6-20, Union Baseball is not knocking on any doors. They now play for pride and the chance improve with each game, individually and as a team. Also, freshmen are getting playing time that they probably would not see under better circumstances. A few have really made a differ- ence. Despite their disappointing record the Dutchmen have kept their focus and have gotten at least one win in every week of the season. This week their lone win came against Utica on a cold, cloudy, and windy Saturday af- ternoon. The win came right on the heals of a 13-7 loss to the same Utica team. Earlier in the week, the Dutch- men took on Vassar, in their only non-doubleheader match-up. This was also the only nine in- ning game played all year. It was a close game with good pitching from both sides. Union's Josh (not Jeremy) Solodo pitched the complete game allowing only two unearned nms to cross the pl,ate. Two is usually a score that the Dutchmen can top, but not this time. Union scored only one run and ended up losing the game 2- 1. The Utica games were split. After the first three innings of game one, Union found them- selves facing an 11-0 deficit. Union rallied in the late innings but it was far too little. The final was 13-7. Senior Captain Dave Dagostino re-injuredhis elbow in the second inning of this game and was relieved at second base by Freshman Jeremy Pflaum. Pflaum made a name for himself this weekend with two clingers, both of which came on Sunday against Hamilton. The second Utica game was a much closer contest in which the Dutchmen squeaked outa two run victory. With the score tied in the top of the seventh, Junior Jamie Haver ripped a solo shot that put the Dutchmen in position to win the game. Union added a buffer run in that same inning and went into the bottom of the last with a two run edge. This was more than Dave Kline needed as he pitched a one-two-three seventh to end the game. At this point, I really should stop. To say anything about Sunday's games would border on embarrassing. But I must speak the truth, as painful as it may be. Sunday's opponent was Hartwick. Maybe the boys were tired of being on the road or maybe the weather was getting to them. Whatever the case, the real Dutchmen were absent on Sun- day. In two games, they lost by a combined score of29-S. The only bright spots were the two hotners by unknown rookie Jeremy Pflaum. One came in the first game, the other in the second. Both were the first Dutchman runs of their respective games. That's enough said about Sunday the 23rd. It's a day that most of us involved in Union Baseball would rather soon forget. So, that leaves two more op- ponents, four more games. It would be very impressive if this years team ended with double digits in the win column. Of course that means they would have to win all four of their last games. It can be done though. It is never too late to turn a season around. Union Crew Enjoys Successful Weekend by Jefferey Druzba Contributing Writer This past weekend was an ex- citing time for Union Crew. On Saturday evening in the Nott Me- morial, Mr. Brad Alan Lewis, a 1984 Olympic gold medalist in rowing, spoke of his experiences in the sport and the challenges he faced throughout his racing ca- reer. Mr. Lewis emphasized the importance of enduring through crossroads during competition with an acceptance ofthe conse- quences that one's decision at these crossroads might result in later. The presentation was fol- lowed by the team's annual fund raising dinner. The following day, Sunday, the team traveled to Saratoga for the Skidmore Invitational on the Fish Creek. Many Union crews posted impressive performances. The first victory of the day was had by the novice men as they won their race by two boat lengths over the next boat, Skidmore, followed by Albany and RPI even after a miserable start that placed them in last place at the beginning of the race. The novice in en's squad included Rich Apostolou, John Cloutier, Bryan Serre!!, Nick Papanickolas, Jason Monnell, Andrew Mallios, Andrew Siegel, Dana Wood, and Melissa lnfurna as coxswain. The novice women finished second to Skidmore while beating Albany in their race. The varsity crews also sampled victory as the varsity women's four defeated other crews by a boat length. Others in their race included Vassar, Geneseo, RPI, and Skidmore. The women's four included Kenley Smith, Sandy Druzba, CeCe Buchanan, and Caroline Nemet. The men's open eight looked impressive as they finished second to Skidmore while beating Albany and a sec- ond Skidmore eight This Saturday, the team races at home on the Mohawk against the University of Rochester. Union Crew would love to sec you there. Just three miles down VanVranken Avenue. The races will prove to be as exciting as they were this past weekend in Saratoga. Write For Sports! Contact Ken or Jason@ X6155 Students interested The Concordiensis • April27, 1995 • Page 19 The \K\ Korner by Greg Kalish Staff Writer There are few professional athletes who will deny the need for having a thick skin in order to do their job in the spot- light of millions. Much oftheircareer is a lesson in dealing with cat-yaHs, name-calling, and often racism. Most handle it very well and some fly off the handle from time to time. But how can you expect a player just minutes out of college to be able to en-dure this type of abuse that has become almost second nature to the seasoned veterans. Such was the situation New York Jet linebacker Kyle Brady found himself in Saturdayaftemoon. With t~!~ · · i~lthe first round ofthe NFL draft, the Jets · ~O,d, . thp- fact that they have ' ·· who ffiCfOK1ey 011 the air. You will nothearabouthisdrinking or his lack ofkindness towards his colleagues. From what has been said by many ofhis colleagues, it is apparentthat one either loved Howard Cosell or hated him. Perhaps it is best that we did not know Howard Cosell ..... Week after week, this column devotes time to covering college and professional sports, a topic of great importance to many of us. Often we live and breath our favorite teams, exult~ ing in victory and agonizing in defeat. But just when we think that there is nothing more important than a power play goal, or who is picking who in the eleventh round ofthedrafl or whether or not the owners should share revenue, a tragic realization is struck in each one of us, a realization that transcends sports and puts our ideals andpriorities in perspective. Today, the people of Oklahoma City do not care who makes the NHL playoffs, who gets home-court advantage in the NBA playoffs, or that baseball's opening day is this week. They are mourning the loss of loved ones. This realization of which I speak has hit them where it hurts the most, in the home. At Union College and at our homes, we are all naturally inclined to feel safe ami impen~ etrable. We do not want to think that something of such a nature can possibly happen to us. The people of Oklahoma City used to feel the same way. Just one swift blast stripped away these feel- ings of security. And I would be remiss to neglect mentioning the tragedy of April l9 ... even in a sports column. PUBLIC DATA OUTLETS AVAILABLE AT NOTT in ushering for Commencement, June 11, please see Mrs. Marra in 408 cc. Connect your portable computer to the Union College network at the Nott. Tenninal server ports are available for local access to the VAXcluster and unvax and Tardis. \How To\ sheets are available at the Nott.

·. ,.• April 27, 1995 PAGE20 Olan.corOi.ensis Lax Loses Heart Breaker, Evens Record by Jason Starr Sports Editor Union Lacrosse played its tentfu game of the season on Sat- uFday and they are now as me- diocre as can be. Their present record is 5.,.5 and they have three games left on their schedule. In order to finish at a respectable 8- 5, they must beat Albany, Trin- ity, and RPI during this upcom- ing week. The St. Lawrence game was a close one. The Dutchmen were down by four at the half but came back to get within ol1e point Gary Edmonds at recent game against St Lawrence (Rick Lederer) Track Excels ~t Albany by Michael Leding Concordiensis Staff This past weekend, the Union Men and Women's Track and Field Teams competed quite well, at the Albany InvitationaL Nine- teen teams were present at this meet and the top six placed. The only Union women to place were Nadine Filosi and Li·nda Seymour. Nadine placed fourth in the women's heptathlon and Linda placed fifth in the 10,000 meters with a time of 41 :44.3, which qualified her four states. Other notables for the women were some personal best: Clarissa Buckner had a personal record in the I 00 meter with a 14. 8s. Amelia Audette also had a best in the 3000 meters with a time of 11:48.1. The men dominated placing fifth out of the 19 teams. The men were just 1.5 points out of third and .5 out of fourth. The scoring was started by Jon Gainor in the hammer throw. Jon threw his hammer 41.96 meters to place second. Matt Johnson also fin- ished second in the javelin with a distance of 55.42 meters; how- ever, the Tuesday prior to the meet Johnson qualified himself for Nationals by throwing the javelin over 58 meters. Rich Pulver landed first in the shot put once again with a throw of 15.48 meters. The 4x 100 relay team of Len Mortimer, Big George Tiggle, Jason Jennings, and Dave Riggi started the scoring placing fifth with a time of 45.74s. The 4x200 relay team placed third with a time of 1:34.8. The team consisted of Dave Riggi, Len Mortimer, Mike Leding, and Jason Jennings. Dave Riggi fil1ished his day by placing fifth in the I 00 meters with a time of ll.03s. Nick Conway placed third in the 800 meters with a time of2:0l.44. The scoring was rounded out by the 4x800 ·relay team consisting of Russ Stram, Mike Leding, Seth Rudin, and Nick Conway in a blazing time of 8:17.8 placing fourth. This was the team's most suc- cessful meet in a while and a great precursor for states which are only two weeks away in Rochester. At Dartmouth this weekend, a few runners and throwers are compet- ing, so good luck to them, and to those who are going to say in shape and get ready to represent Union at states. Senior Field Hockey Players and Women Lacrosse Players Graduate from college and continue to play competitive field hockey and lacrosse in New England nest fall. Call the Hotline 203-749-3815 with under a minute left in the game. With forty seconds left and the Dutchmen on the offen- sive, there was still a chance for a tie. Union's desperation shot produced a' long rebound and took the St. Lawrence goalie out of position. So Union's final shot was on a net tended only by a defenseman (with a small stick). Unfortunately, the shot hit the defensemen and St. Lawrence took the Fehound all the way to the back of the Dutchman net. The finaJ score was 13- 11. It was. definitely a heart- breaker. hopefully the Dutch- men hearts will mend fast enough for the team to put to- gether a three game win streak Lee Schmitt attacked from behind by St Lawrence (Rick Lederer) to end the seasol1. Colgate's Spring Party Weekend· by Kathy Walter Contributing Writer This weekend the lovely Union women ventured to Colgate University. Once again, it was an eventful, fun-filled and interestingtrip (as if anyplace the Union women go could possibly be anything less!)~ To start, our seniors and fearless leaders were brutally side-swiped by what we are sure were hit-men hired by the Colgate team. Jesse \the force\ Zirinsky and Gaela 11 giving the team the Heisman\ Sweizer were unable to participate and were sorely missed. Union may· have lost, but it was not due to a lack of ability or because of Colgate's strength ( and shame on anyone who thought that). In fact, it was quite the opposite! (With one exception--He-Woman. Although the Union women are brilliant, we could not quite figure out whether it was male or female.) Union inflicted pain and agony on the entire team, buf forgot to bring their earplugs. Colgate's women were whining so loudly about \good sportmanship\ \barging'r and \tackling\ that it distracted the Dutchwomen and Colgate was able to rack in the tries. Finally, at the end ofthe game, Kate 11 don't even think about ticking me off\ McCullen knocked a girl out and ran in for Union's only try. Jen \the responsible one\ Lelas said of the play, \we scored, we kicked and the game ended\. However, Union definitely did not go down without a fight. Wendy \the Bulldozer\ Stephenson and Stacey \she claims all of her bruises are from rugby games, but those are some awfully high tackles!?!?!'' Fellows both had fantastic games. If you were at all warried about the women ruggers, don't be. Our egos may be slightly off-kilter, but like all good sportswomen, we know many ways to bury our sorrows and get on with life. With Union almost two hours away, many stayed to revel in our loss and seek solace in the strong anns of \Colgate's finest\--beer coolio, and DU ... Next Saturday the Union women will be participation in a tournament in Clifton Park with about 8 other women's teams. Over two hours of women tackling each other and rolling in the mud, se you there!!! Sports At Glance.· This Week's Action Men's Lacrosse: St. Lawrence ll-13(L) Women'sLacrosse: Vassar 12-11 (W) Men's Tennis: Oneonta 4-5 (L) Albany 5-4 (W) Men's Varsity Crew: Skidmore 2ndout of 8 Men's Novice Crew: Skidmore 1st Women's- Varsity Crew: Skidmore 1st Men's Rugby: Trinity (L) Northeastern (L) Women's Rugby: Colgate (L) Baseball: Utica 7-13 (L) Utica 5-4 (W) Hamilton (L) 8-29 Men's Track: Albany Invitational 5th ofl9

. - ning of an Era- We've Just Begun!! . . ~nncorbicnsis Tlt:e Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Celebratin~ Our :Bicentennial rXVII · Schenectady, New York April6, 1995 . . ~morial Serves as Union's Centerpeice -· ·e~ ·t;~­ m. of :le b; ~n k- Je Je 't- ip st )9 1e ig s: re 1· t- r- :s 1· t't ::t r. ' :e i- t- IC 4 . . ' Newly renovated Nott Memorial serves as a major asset to the college.(photo by Rick Lederer/TC) Admissions Showcases the/Campus by Illisa Wood Concordiensis Staff The Bicentennial is not the only thing Union has to celebrate this year. Union received approxi- mately 3,555 applications for the classofl999, its largest applicant pool ever, and' the best qualified in recent history. Of these appli- cants, approximately 50 percent have been accepted. Now that the decisions have been made, the hard part still re- mains. How is Union going to get the best possible 520 students for the class of 1999 to attend? Ac- cording to Vice President of Ad- missions and Financial Aid, Dan Lundquist, we are in a strong po- sition, but the competition is tre- mendous. \We're in a competi- tive market, and as more and more students are applying we have to turn down more and more. Because of their qualifica- tionsthey have a lot of great op- tions,\ said Lundquist. \We have a marketing challenge in fnmt of us, a lot of kids don't know how good Union is until they come here.\ While not all prospective stu- dents may have a chance to visit the campus, measures are being taken to try and reach every one continued onpage4 ttration Makes Meal Plan Mandatory ? Revenues Tuition Goes Up, Meal Price Goes Down bottom line is we will be receiv- ing less and less money from the government,\ said Blake. \We do 6 not want to compromise the Fi- e nancial Aid situation at the col- e lege. Weknowweareexpensive a and by creating a balanced bud- get we would not be meeting the 1f needs-ofthe students.\ h In response to the President of l- the Inter-Fraternity Council, Steve Lapinsky's comment ques- f tioning the use of extra funds ·- ;t e e fro in the meal plan being used to \fill-sidewalks the school has decided to increase revenues by increasing tuition and decreasing the cost of meal. plans. \He has a valid point,\ said Blake. \People feel more inclined to fo.cus on tbod and not on tuition \ Blake j. also explained that although the meal plan creates a net profit of e $1 million, that profit .is a func- tion of food service related ex- penses only. When taking into account insurance, expansion, equipment, cleaning and mainte- nance for the current year, the school will \only really take in a net profit of $80,000,\ reported Blake. The \overall blend\ of the in- creases in cost per person will be detennined by which meal plan a student chooses. There will be 4.3% increase in costs for stu- dents on the 15 meal plan, a 4 .I% increase in costs for students on the 10 meal plan aud a 3.9% in- crease in costs for students on the 7 meal plan. Not including a stu- dent's $200 declining balance, students will be paying $746 to be on the 15 meal plan as a result of a 7% decrease in price, $661 to be on the 1 () m~al plan as are- sult of a 10% decrease in price and $600 to be on the 7 meal plan as a result of a 13% decrease in price. The privatization of Union College's dining services had nothing to do with the colleges decision to make it mandatory for all students to be on a meal plan. Marriott will not receive any ad- ditional money. However, Marriott food services will re- ceive additional work, stress and anxiety. Over spring break, a planner was contracted to reorganize the eating areas around campus to accommod~;tte the increase in the number of students on the meal plan. A variety of suggestions were made including the expan- sion of the Rathskellar, Dutch Hollow and Upper Class dining hall, the reorganization of West College and the use of Hale House as a student dining hall.

. ning o:f an Era ··~·· we•Ve ·3:ust Begtlll!! • • \ • ' ' • ' ' • ' •' : ' '• ' ' ' '• ' : • ' • I < ' • ' • ~ • onrnrbi.ensis The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Celebrating Our Bicentennial ·XVII · Schenectady, New York April6, 1 995 ~morial Serves as Union's Centerpeice :- :- 11- ,f e e ) t > - } ' Newly renovated Nott Memorial serves as a major asset to the college. (photo by Rick Lederer/TC) Admissions Showcases the Campus by lllisa Wood Concordiensis Staff The Bicentennial is not the only thing Union has to celebrate this year. Union received approxi- mately 3,555 applications for the class of 1999, its largest applicant pool ever, and the best qualified in recent history. Of these appli- cants, approximately 50 percent have been accepted. Now that the decisions have been made, the hard part still re- mains. How is Union going to get the best possible 520 students for the class of 1999 to attend? Ac- cording to Vice President of Ad- missions and Financial Aid, Dan Lundquist, we are in a strong po- sition, but the competition is tre- mendous. \We're in a competi- tive market, and as more and more students are applying we have to turn down more and more. Because of their qualifica- tions they have a lot of great op- tions,\ said Lundquist. ··we have a marketing challenge in front of us, a lot of kids don't know how good Union is until they come here.\ While not all prospective stu- dents may have a chance to visit the campus, measures are being taken to try and reach every one continued on page 4 ,tration Makes Meal Plan Mandatory , Revenues Tuition Goes Up, Meal Price Goes Down bottom line is we will be receiv- ing less and less money from the government,\ said Blake. \We do not want to compromise the Fi- nancial Aid situation at the col- lege. Weknowweareexpensive and by creating a balanced bud- get we would not be meeting the needs of the students.\ In response to the President of the Inter-Fraternity Council, Steve Lapinsky's comment ques- tioning the use of extra funds froin the meal plan being used to ••fill-sidewalks,\ the school has decided to increase revenues by increasing tuition and decreasing the cost of meal plans \He has a valid point,\ said Blake. •'People feel more inclined to focus on food and not on tuition.\ Blake also explained that although the meal plan creates a net profit of $1 mill ion, that profit is a func- tion of food service related ex- penses only. When taking into account insurance, expansion, equipment, cleaning and mainte- nance for the current year, the school will \only really take in a net profit of $80,000,\ reported Blake. The \averall blend\ of the in- creases in cost per person will be determined by which meal plan a student chooses. There will be 4.3% increase in costs for stu- dents on the I 5 meal plan, a4.1% increase in costs for students on the I 0 meal plan aQd a 3. 9% in- crease in costs for students on the 7 meal plan. Not including a stu- dent's $200 declining balance, students will be paying $746 to be on the 15 meal plan as a result of a 7% decrease in price, $661 to be on the 10 meal plan as are- sult of a 10% decrease in price and $600 to be on the 7 meal plan as a result of a I 3% decrease ln price. The privatization of Union College's dining services had nothing to do with the colleges decision to make it mandatory for all students to be on a meal plan. Marriott will not receive any ad- d itiona.l money. However, Marriott food services will re- ceive additional work, stress and anxiety. Over spring break, a planner was contracted to reorganize the eating areas around campus to accommodate the increase in the number of students on the meal plan. A variety of suggestions were made including the expan- sion of the Rathskellar, Dutch Hollow and Upper Class dining hall, the reorganization of West College and the use of Hale House as a student dining hall. 'i>%',:.:)'/~)·'iii;?:,: ' .. ;:'·::>'\-''<'·'>:;;' .. '.: :.::··· l:t';e~~s;11f.:ita'S'S~··:: :. ~:a: ,l3 ,· .. ~ i4 , ·rs~I6.

UNION COLLEGE C~USSAFETYDEPARTMENT DATE/TIME LQCATION SUNDAY. MARCH 26. 1995: 7: 10 AM Child Care Center 9:20AM S&E -2nd floor 4:05PM Alexander Lane 8:22PM Fox Davidson Lot 9: 15 PM S&E Ba5ement 9: 17 PM Fieldhouse ll:l7PM RaymondNorth MONDAY. MARCHZ7.1995: 12: 14 PM Achilles Rink area 3:10PM 6:32PM 11:23PM I 1:28PM Fox House Davidson South Psi Upsilon Fox South TUESDAY. MARCH Z8. 1995: 10: 13 AM Arts 2nd· floor 1:50PM Edwards House 7:54AM Peschel Center . 2:10PM Dudley Observatory 5:49PM Psychology Building 3:36PM Steimetz 101 9:35PM Riclunond WEDNESDAY. MARCH 29. 1995: I: 18 AM Schaffer Library 2:30AM 6:06PM ll:l5PM West College Campus Oper. Storage Fraternity THURSDAY. MARCH 30, 1995: · I :37 AM · South College 1:55AM Huntley Lane area 7:45AM North College 7:45AM 1128 Lenox Road 8:15AM -· Schaffer Library , l 5:30PM Campus Operations I 1:30PM Campus Grounds 11:32PM Fraternity FRIDAY. MARCH 31. 1995: 12:17 AM Richmond 1:55AM West College 5;21 PM North Terrrace 8:06PM Off Campus SATURDAY. APRIL 1.1995: 1:18AM FoxNorth 8:20AM Off Campus 1:00PM 1:57PM ·I 1:35PM Delta Phi Yulman Theater Fox House SUNDAY.APRILl. 1995: 12:00PM OldChapel I :20 PM Fox/Davidson Lot 3:56AM AD Phi 4:59AM Campus Grounds 5:54PM Rathskeller 5:55PM Schaffer Library 9:05PM West College SUNPAY.APRIL2. 1~5: I 0:31 PM Edwards I 0:50PM Raymond South 11:31PM Phi Delta Theta MONDAY. APRIL 3. 1995: II :5SAM Alumni Gym 4:52P~ S&E 9:18PM Alumni Gym West College INCIDENT LIFE SAI,l'ETY VIOLATION: Fire elrtinquisher discharged. VANDALISM: Window broken. . PARKING PROBLEM: Visitol'll for special event blocking roadway. VANDALISM: Window of student's car broken. FIRE: Minor fire. Overheated circulator pump. motor. Fire alann activated. No injury, damage to motor only. SAFETY HAZARD: Fire exit blocked. Staffadvi$ed. VANDALISM: Windows damaged by pellets. MOTO~ VEHICLE ACCIDENT: Faculty member's patted car struckby vendo('s tmck. Property damage, no ·injury. THEFT: Computer stolen from student's room during Spring break. No forced entry. THEFTS: Two student's bikes stolen from lounge area. Bikes were not secured. Occu~ during Spring break SAFETY HAZARD: Students on roof. Identified and advised. SUBStANCE ABUSE: Odor ofmmjuana reported.. Area checkCct report unconfirtned. • FIRE A.LARM: Caused by malfunctioning <!etector. Work order filed for' replacement. THEFT: Cable TV connectors stolen from student's room during Spring break, No forced entry. UNAUTHORIZED ACCESS: Suspected use of private room and computer equipment. SAFETY HAZARD: Campus S1.1curity Officer discovered leaking gas meter. NIMO notified and responded. SAFETY ,HAZARD: Light fixture dropped from ceiling hanging wires. Campus Operations advised. TRESPASS: Unauthorized visitor using computers. Identified and advised off campus . . SECURITY HAZARD: Entry lock not functioning properly, Locksmith notified for repair. FIRE ALARM: Fire trouble alert. Equipment malfunction. Electricians notified. HARASSMENT: Prank phone call for food delivery. A T'J:'EMPTED TIQ!:~T: Persons removing construction supplies without authoriz:l!tion. Identified as students. StJBSTANCE.ABUSE: Unauthorized social event. ConduCt charges filed. • • t •• ,J . -..,!:' FIRE ALARM: Fire trouble report 3rd and 4th floor areas Fire panel reset. Further investigation after recurrent alarms discovered dama,g~d fire detector. HARASSMENT~· Student harassed by group believed to be students. Area checked ... hamssers gone. FIRE: Minor.fire. Basement circulator pump motor burned out. Fire alamt activated. Damilge to pump o!lly, no inj:ury. VANDALISM: Garage windows broken. FIMA~A~:, F~.:¢· trovl:!le.l!lett.c®~l.ld lzy equipment mal:func tion~loose.coru1ection': Electricians notified. · · PROPERTY DAMAGE: Cant pus van damaged-cause undetennined. STUDENT RELATIONS: Complaint filed regarding student escort service driver. Investigated. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Violation of alcohol policy-unauthorized keg on tap. Conduct Charges filed. EQUIPMENT MALFUNCTION: Loss of electrical power to several rooms. Traced to electrical short caused by a haim dryer. Electricians notified to check system. UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY: Students violating entry procedures. Wotk order filed for equipment upgrade. PARKING VIOLATIONS: Dlegal parking along North Terrace and North Lanes. Request to re- establish barrier chain. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Student treated at hospital for effects of intoxication. VANDALISM: Glass in entry door broken. THEFT: Schenectady Police investigating theft fromlocal store. Suspect student involvement. SAFETY HAZARD: Exterior fire escapes need emergency repair. Campus structural department notified. · FIRE ALARM: Caused by contractor working in building. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Visitor became Ul due to effects of intoxication. VANI)ALISM; Window broken. PARKING VIOLATION: Freshman vehicle on campus. Conduct Charges filed. FIRE ALARM: Fire trouble alert caused by equipment rnalfunc tion. Room smoke detector replaced. EQUIPMENT MALFUNCTION: Power surge-momentary loss of power on two occasions. Caused by off campus incident. SECURITY HAZARD: Door needs repair. Campus structural department notified. FIRE ALARM: Fire trouble alert. Equipment malfunction. Electricians notified. Source located and corrected. EQUIPMENT MALI,l'UNCTION:. Main entry door lock not Working. Locksmiih notified for repair. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Student's room ctoor damaged. Cause undetennined. VANDALISM: Window broken in entry door. Security hazard. Campus structural department notified. FIRE ALARM: Fire trouble alert caused by tripped electrical breaker. Alann res~. EQUIPMENT MAJ.FtJNCTIONIINJURY: Student reported burns to shoulder as a result of hot water from showers. Campu5 Plumbers notified. Equipment checked and a<ljusted; Incident occurred 3/30/95. THEFT: Staff member's .pocketbook stolen from unlocked area on the 2nd floor. Incident occurred between I O:OOAM· 4:30 PM. Pocketbook recovered intl!ct by night cleaner in 3rd floor restroom.. Pocket change missing. SECURITY HAZARD: Tampering with entry door latch to make it inoperable. Latch corrected. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Jntoxicirted studenti:a.ttied into buUding. Pro r en i'Qeedure not followed. Conduct Ch e filed. j ( l f t c c j c c c h g p 1 s T ai b p 0 s sc c d: ac A li: I. S<

Campus News The Concordiensis · April6, 1995 · Page 3 Holocaust Survivor S}>eaks This Evening . . egy for staying alive during the by death, cold and darkness. His In order to tell the stones of the v1sor Sarah Hadley ai Kansas by Nalini Gupth . Holocaust resembles a deadly father died in a concentration romantic ruins and spiritual at- State University. \The success News Staff game. \It was like a terrible ad- camp and he wa~ separated from n1osphere of the Old City, of the program was beyond our As ·~m eleven year old boy, Zev Kedem was one of the 1,1 00 Jewish workers whose I ife was saved by the Schindler's List. Today, Holocaust survivor Ked em lives to tell the true .story ofhis childhood andtheproduc- Hve years that followed. Through an exclusive represen- tation by the Greater Talent Net- work, Ked em is sharing his re- markable experiences With stu- dents on college c mrtpuses across the country in a powerful lecture entitled \Schindler's List: venture where the winning posi- his mother for more than forty Kedem began document::uy film- wildest dreams. At 2: l5 pm we A Survivor Celebrates life\ .. As apart ofthe Bicentennial Series, on Thursday, April 6th, he will bring his presentation to Union. Booked at over 50 schools this fall alone, Kedem's presentation has drawn record crow-ds and re- making and produced Only in had 30 people waiting for Mr. Jerusalem and The Jerusalem Kedem 's 4:00pm lecture. In the Quartet which was translated end we had over 1050 people at- into four languages and distrib- tend and we had to turn away uted to 60 countries. Eventually, another 200,\ Hadley said. Kedem 's filmmaking brought Kedem 's presentation has had him to Los Angeles and then to an astounding positive impact on Sacremento. thouSaAds of people in his host- Kedem believes that the pro- ing institutions. Kedem says that duction of Schindler's List has through his life and work, he has forced him to remember a part of learned that one's time on earth his life which had remained dor- is precious and that none of it mant for many years. Amaz- should be wasted. He wishes to ingly, among memories of cru- help students of today under- elty and suffering, Kedem has stand this better through his lee- found a multitude of reasons to tures. celebrate life. For Kedem, who \Kedem 's lecture served an has six children and four grand- emphatic lesson to our students children, the game of life contin- about the respect we owe each ues. It is the joy with which he other as human beings, the val- lives and that has won him the ues that we ought to share, and overwhelming support of audi- the need to act courageously on ences all over the nation. tlnese values in every day of our ceived reviews describing it as one of the hottest pro grams on America's campuses. A 59 year old documentary fihmnaker who consulted on and appeared in Steven Spielberg's award win- ning Schindler's List, Kedem gives an extraordinary account of the horrors he endured in six Zev Kedem to speak today. (courtesy of Greater Talent Network) Kedem has spoken at almost I ives\ said director Joseph 70 universities and is scheduled Cirinc'ione at Rockhurst College. to lecture at several others by the In the spirit of Kedem 's pro- end of the year. He has been gram, a percentage of the bono- featured as part .of orientation raria will be donated to a charity programs, cultural diversity fo- for the Holocaust victims and rums and discussions on the survivors. Admission to the lee- roots of Jewish heritage. His ture is free and a reception will compelling account of the also be held following the pro- struggles he encountered have gram in Straus Lounge. Nazi concentration camps and of his miraculous liberation by Nazi industriali~t, Oskar Schindler. Kedem says his strat- tion was staying alive. It was ba- sically a concept of celebrating life at every moment and I have tried to do so ever since,\ Kedem said. Kedem remembers his child- hood years as being dominated Andrea Pagnozzi Wins Prestigious Award by Emily Lombardo NewsStVJ The Women's Basketball Coaches Associati<Jn (WBCA) has named Union College senior guard and team captain Andrea Pagnozzi as the association's J 995 recipient of the Charles' T. Stoner Law Scholarship Award. The scholarship is awarded annu- ally to a senior female collegiate basketball player who intends to pursue a career in law. Andrea Pagnozzi is planning on attending law school in the fall. She has already been admitted to several schools including Dickinson School ofLaw. An- drea has been awarded several academic and athletic accolades. As the school's second all-time leading women's scorer with 1 ,312 points, she led her team in· scoring in her sophotnore,junior, and senior seasons while being named most valuable player both sophomore and junior year. She is also a participant on the varsity softball team. As third baseman, she had 20 RBis her sophomore year and 21 in her junior year. Andrea's academic honors in- clude Phi Beta Kappa recoginition her freshman year, Gamma Phi Beta scholar honors, and being a candidate for the East coast Athletic Conference Robbins Scholar Athlete Award both her junior and senior years. She is a four-year Dean's List honoree and a member of Omi- cron Delta Theta. She is the eigth player to re- ceive the Stoner award. Andrea will be presented with her award in Minneapolis, Minn., at the 1995 WBCA National Conven- tion. Student Apartments Available 95-96 *Carpet *Appliances *Furnished *Lease *Off Street Parking *3,4,6 or 7 B,edrooms *Remodeled Throughout Call 370-5498 years. After being I iberated in 1945, Kedem was sent to En- gland to live in a British orphan- age. He received a degree in en- gineering from Oxford and moved to Jerusalem where he helped to rebuild the Old City. Kedem lingers on here with manv of us\ said Pro2ram Ad- Student Designs Low Income Housing by Martin Metz News Staff Last term, Union student .I en- nifer Dominelli, a senior politi- cal science major, was given the opportunity to perfonn a unique type of internship in which sh~ worked for the Schenectady Mu- nicipal Housing authority, and was responsible for designing a program that received great ac- claim and praise from the De- partment of Housing and Urban ·Development (HYD) in Wash- ington. In addition to the semes- ter in Washington and the intern- ship with the Albany Legislature, Professor Paula Consolini has developed a new type of intern- ship for the political science de- partment which allows the stu- dent to work with the teacher in creating his/her own experience in the community Professor Consolini, who is in charge of the program, says that the politi- cal science department tries to \tailor them to people's [both student and employer] individual needs.\ She also felt that the in- ternship forces students to priori- tize their interests and \personal curiosities\ and helps them to make more coherent plans for the future. Dominelli's internship was set up by Professor Consolini at the Schenectady Municipal Housing Authority (SM~IA) where she was working to design projects for low-income residents. The project that Dominelli's design takes a portion of the money that HUD gives the SMHA and uses it to build public housing but at the same time provide training and jobs tor low-income reside~s who are in need of a job and a steady source of income. The jobs and training that the program cre- ates are jobs such as maintenance, janitorial work and led removal that are needed to improve or maintain the pub! ic housing units. With these jobs, first priority is given to public housing residents. In effect, the residents are given the chance to improve their own environment while also receiving a steady source of income and job training. When representatives from HUD came to visit the SMHA and heard of the new pro- gr,am, they..wer.e.vety -it.\R.ptessed with it. Furthermo{e, when the)! found out that the program was designed by a college student, they were in a state of amaze- ment. Dominelli received great praise for her work with the SMHA and her efforts in help- ing out the community of Schenectady. In addition to be- ing recognized by the Concor- dicnsis. Dominelli's story is also going to be featured in the Schenectady Gazette. In regards to the internship, Dominelli felt that it was \An excellent opportunity for stu- dents because it gives them a great deal of responsibility and in dependance to be creative and apply their knowledge [ac- quired) at Union College.\ She also felt that the internship gives students a greater \insight into reality\. Dominelli's story is a demonstration of the potential goals that Union students can accomplish if gi,ven the right opportunity. \It really shows the talent and motivation that Union Students have,\ said Prof. Consolini. f:very 15 Seconds a woman is assaulted in her own home ... To'· do your part to end this atrocity, attend the National Organization of Women's rally in Washington, D.C., this weekend. Vans will he ~eaving on Saturday evening, and returning early Monday morning. The trip is free and you will be helping end violence against women. Sponsored by The Womyn 's Union and The Dean of , Students office. For further information, call Kate Durocher at 346-5142.

Page 4 • April6, 1995 • The Concordiensis Novas and Gorski Address Union Community by Emily Battis News Staff The first two weeks of April bring two dynamic speakers to Union. On Tuesday, April 4, Himilce Novas spoke to a large crowd,offaculty and students in theCollege Center Auditorium. Her speec:h entitled LLLatino Women Myths, Realities and Possibilities\ explored some of the myths about Latinos and the realities surrounding them. No- vas' speech, sponsored by the African and Latino Alliance of Students, was part of the College's celebration of Latino Heritage Month. Novas fled Castro's Cuba in 1960 with her parents and settled in New York City where she began a distin- guished career in journalism, public relat,ions, and talk radio. Her impressive career includes positions as magazine editor tor such prominent publications as The New York Times and The Christian Science Monitor. She is the author of several novels of the approximate I ,777 admit- ted students. faculty and students will take pan in recruiting during the phonathons held from April 2 through April 5, from 5:30 to I 0:30 p.m in Hale House Dining Room. Callers can choose which candidates to call by hometown, high schooL or major. Alumni will also participate in recruiting by phonmg students they inter- viewed. and others in their local are~. oh~ilngcongra:tulatlons'a!ld' adVICe In addition to the slew of phone calls accepted candidates will re- ceive, they will receive numerous letters from Union students and the administration. Students are encouraged to write to graduates of their high schools congratulat- ing them on their acceptance and urging them to visit the campus. Assistant Dean of Admissions, Nick Famulare, implemented this campaign where students can stop by a table in the college center from 11:00 to 3:00p.m on week- days and send postcards to pro- spective candidates from their high school. \This is a great yield- ing device, and a fun event for current students,\ said Famulare. Over 300 postcards have already been sent. A congratulatory let- ter from President Roger Hull will be sent to all accepted candidates and their parents. A letter from Joanne Tobiessen, Head of the Career Development Center, will be sent informing candidates about career placements of Union graduates. Letters from the de- partment in which the candidate is interested in wilL also, be sent offering more specific informa- tion. I C after all the phone calls and letters, accepted candidates still as well as two books concerning Latino history and the infll.f~nce of Latino's in North American history. Novas brought to the attention ofthe students and faculty in the hall that Latinos generate almost 4.3 billion dollars in tax revenue ner which fosten:d pride in and respect for the Latino culture. Also speaking at Union on Thursday,Aprill3, at 11:30 a.m. in the College Center Auditorium is a well-known researcher on the origins of sexuality, Roger Gorski. Gorski is a neurobiolo- while they only cost the US 970 gist who specializes in the sexual million dollars, therefore creating differentiation of the brain. He almost 2 million dollars in rev- enue. Much of the discussion surrounded California Governor Pete Wilson's Proposition 187. Novas stated that \ifProposition 187 pa~ses, we will see an under class of people emerge\. She also shared many other interesting sta- tistics with the audience such as. by the year 2000, Latinos will be the largest minority in the United States and will comprise one third of this country's population. Another statistic that was brought to the attention of everyone in the auditorium was that while 12 per- cent of all LLAnglos\ are on wel- fare, only 6 percent of all Latinos depend on welfare. Overall, No- vas presented Latinos in a man- has spent his career looking at the differences in behavior caused in rats by the male hormone test- osterone and the female hormone estrogen. Gorski and his col- leagues have tried to U1')derstand different male and female behav- iors such as ovulation, food in- take, aggressive behavior, and maternal instinct. Gorski's article entitled \Homosexuality and Bi- ology\ was recently published in The Atlantic Monthly. Gorski's sp~ech \Sexual Differentiation of the Brain and Origins of Sexual.- ity: The News and Reality\ is sponsored by the College's Minerva Hour lecture series and is free and open to the public. Admissions continuedfrom.page 1 are unsure, they are invited to visit toss,\ said Lundquist. \When you the campus on one of two Ac- have a student who is choosing cepted Students Days on April 10 between schools like Bowdoin, andApril17. ThesedayswiUhost Williams, and the Ivies, you're special events such as: a welcome going to do everything possible address from President Roger to make sure they choose Union.\ HulL panels on academic, resi- While academic issues used to dential, and student affairs, lun- be the detennining criteria for a cheon with faculty and current student to attend a particular students, a faculty reception, and · school, social life and financial a student activities fair. Candi- aid are now becoming more criti- dates are also invited to spend an cal issues. After all, students do ove~night 1rni'res1aence hall a:s . spend more time outside of the'\ ' - .. .. - .. ,,., . . the guest of a current student. classroom. ''I'm very motivated GXtra Gatekeepers will be avail- to do whatever we canto guaran- able tor tours and as greeters in tee a great class. There are some the admissions office. The ad m is- factors that are not under our con- sioi1s office will be open every trol, financial aid and merit Saturday and Sunday in April for awards for example, but for what tours and information sessions we can control, we just have to with current students. Visitors get out there and spread the who drop in on a Sunday to see word,\ explained Lundquist. \We the campus will be pleasantly sur- don't want to look back and re- prised to find tours available. A gret not having done something special version of the Bicenten- we could have.\ nial video will be available for For the past three years Union's viewing in the admissions office reputation has been on the rise, ru1d tor spring receptions both on resulting in increased applicant and off- campus. pools. This is not because Union Admissions staff, students, and is getting better and better, but faculty are hard at work promot~ because everyone is doing a bet- ing Union and getting the word ter.job of getting the word out. \ out about what a great place this Recognition of what has always is to be. But tor many members been good here is growing. We ofthe incoming class, they knew deserve to do well this year,\ said from the start of their college Lundquist. search that they wanted to attend There is no doubt that Union Union. LL A lot of students have will do a great job at getting the us as a top choice but are not best incoming class. \From a ready to make a decision in De- marketing point of view, now that cember of their senior year\ said we've identified them, our job as Lundquist. Still, 28 percent ofthe . a group is to LLmake the sale\ ex- incoming class were early deci- plain what Union has to offer,\ sion applicants. said Lundquist. Through the com- Union is up against many ofthe mitment of students, faculty, staff top schools in the country. LLin and alumni to keep up the good general when a student has been work, Union is guaranteed an ex- admitted to Union, Hamilton, or cellentaddition to its community Colgate it's pretty much a coin · with the incoming class of 1999. Write For The Concordiensis. General Staff Meeting Next Thursday at 7:30 in CC303 Campus News The N ott continuedfrompage 1· country. Last Week, fifty stu:.. dents and guidance councilors came from Los Angeles and were largely impressed with the structure. \The Nott is one of the very fey thin~s that has no nega- tives,\ Dan Lundquist, Vice President of Admissions and Financial Aid said. <•It loudly whispers tradition.,; ''Itreiterat~s the fact that we are in a higher caliber place of learning, and when we are in· the Nott it reminds us of this and inspires us to reach beyond our potential,\ said Brian Field, a Freshman. ' Open 12-10 Monday through Thursday and 12-5 Fri- day and Saturday, the third floor has quickly become a popular place for students to study. Many seem to feel that there is a high level ofrespect, so it is relatively quiet. How- ever, with the galley exhibit and the excitement of the monument, there many visitors and tours. Even President Hull was asked on two occasions to be quieter, according to Lundquist. \I think it is a good place to study because it is so open and it forces people to be quiet; the library is a playhouse,\ said Eileen Ba:rrett, a Senior. \I think it is a nice place to study, but they should move some tables downstairs so that their is more room to study,\ said Ann-Noelle McCowan, a Junior. \It's nice, quiet, pretty and a lot'better'thari the librarY · where you always fal1 asleep.\ \It's definitely more com- fortable and pleasant, a lot bet- ter than the library,\ said Dan O'Neill, an alumnus. Despite all the enthusiasm there are some who believe that the reconstruction of the Nott was a lavish project and that the money should have. been used elsewhere. However, donors !,\allied over the symbolism of the Nott in the Bicentennialyear and some gave selely to that project. \It is reaJ.ly beautifl)tl, hut I think that it was a waste to spend [$11]. million on a building that · • can only hold as many as a 100 . people at one time, especially because as Union's tuition goes . t:lp, it makes it more inaccessible · to perspective student,\ Barrett . said. \'The sound system here sounded' really good, but it is a waste that they aren't going to use it at all,\ said David . Ovedovit:z, a Senier. A positive response has come from the Alumni and many keep sending copies of the article fea- tured in the W (111 StreetJournal. Tours are going to be given over Alumni Weekend and an AI umni Council Meeting is go- ing to be held in the Nott on April29. Campus safety has also ad- jus ted to all the changes, Of- ficer Dan Gibson was hired to fill the position of security dur- ing the week, and on the week- ends Officer Michael Mazzuco is on duty. The reason for the safety is because ofthe value of the artifacts on display, such as the A1J.clqbon painting. A 24 hour alarm·.system was.installed to protect these rare artifacts. In the bathrooms ofthe basement, panic alarms were also installed as an extra precaution. Thank· You Big Brothers and Big Sisters would like to extend their appreciation and thanks to everyone who participated in the 1995 Union College Bowl For Kids Sake Approximately $5500 was rais~d by Union College participants. Thanks for making this a successful, fun filled event. ,. I' I

( ' ~~ (' I World News The Concordiensis • April6, 1995 • Page 5 - Guatemala: Murder, C.I.A. Covert Assistance, and the U.S. Government Review by Matt Sandler World News Editor Michael Devine, an American innkeeper in the northern forest village of Poptun in Guatemala, was killed in June 1990. He was kidnapped and nearly beheaded by members <lf the Guatemalan military and his body was left by the roadside dose to his inn. It has not been reported why Mr. Devine had been killed. Mr. Devine was discovere,d near a Guatemalan Army Special Forces training camp run by Colonel Alpirez. Colonel Alpirez, who was a pajd Central Intelligence Agency asset, has been accused by Representative Robert G. Torricelli, D-NJ on the House Intelligence Committee, of involvement in the murder, The Bush Administration pub- licly cutoffmilitary aid to Gua- temala in response to the killing of Mr. Devine, but secretly al- lowed the C.I.A. to continue to send millions of dollars to the militaryGovemmenttocompen... attheNational Security Agency, many failures but is also an im- sate for the lost aid. Over $5 mil- the Defense lntelligenceAgency, portant part of the United States lion dollars flowed annually from and the Army into this matter. security. This affair will be in- the C.I.A. through the agency's. The Federal Bureau oflnvestiga- vestigated and the chips will fall Guatemaht station to the military, tion has begun a separate Jeview where they may, but the Agency The money was sent on the basis · into a letter that Representative will weather the storm and fall- ofkeeping U.S. officials informed Torricelli received, saying. an out that might arise. Though the ofactivitiesintbe ..---~--~--'--.,.---------------~-----, Ag.ency was region. One \The Bush Administration publicly cut off not involved Bash Adminis- in the killing: tration offici~.! military aid to Guatem~la ... , but secretly the kil1ing was said, \Guatema- allowed the C.I.A. to send millions of dollars a major factor lanmilitaryoffic- to the military government.\ in the U.S./ erstold us: 'You ~__-~-~-----~--~------------' Guatemalan guysarecrazy. Youshutusdown Army Col'onel has recently de- relations. The fact that the in public, and then you give us strayed documents relating to the Agency continued to pay assets stuff through the back door and killing, The destroyed documents in the Guatemalan military after everyone in the military knows arereputedto include intercepted the killing, sanctioned by the it'\ Colonel Alp.irez, said, \Never never have I worked for a United States agency. I ,receive my sal- ary from the Guatemalan Army, not from any US. institution. Not for one momenthave I abandoned my country.\ President Clinton ordered a wide inquiry by Inspec- tor General at the Departments of State, Justice, and the C. LA_ The Pentagon is conducting reviews communications obtained by the Bush Administration~ testifies to Uniteo States agencies showing the fact that the Bush Adm inis- involvement by Guatemalan tration was acting to further the Anny intelligence officials in the U.S. larger strategic and national 1990 killing of Michael Devine interests in .the area, In the Per- and Mr. Valesquez, a guerri:lla sian Gulf, for years the United leader married to an American States embraced Saddam lawyer, Hussein, because by embracing American foreign policy is him, he served America's higher sometimes contradictory and is long term interests whatever the based on the U.S. interests that government determines them to fluctuate, The CJ.A. has had be, Florida swamp last month. Certainly, ifthe U.S. Govern- ment obtained detailed informa- tion I inking Guatemalan officials to the killings and withheld infor- mation or destroyed it, then the situation has changed. The crisis that will arise will not 'be about the murder, but of covering up thatmurderinpursuitofU.S, na- tional interests. The affair can be looked at from two perspectives, the realist or idealist .point of view. What one believes will de- termine the extent ofhow bad the \situation\ really is? Realists be- lieve that although murder is tragic, we must continue to pur- sue our national interests even with dictators. The idealists view is that America has no business dealing with dictators and must correct injustice even if it sets back our national goals. The C.I.A., for all its faults, is an in- telligence and operational arm of the government, it implements U.S. policy, and that is where the focus has to be aimed in Clinton's investigations, - The Pentagon picks Miami to be the new Southern Command Headquarters when the US with- draws from Panama under the Pana~a Canal Treaty in 1999·. ' - The Army says it will punish Nine Army Rangers for the training deaths of four recruits in A F ederal.Judge halted discharge proceedings against the six pia, iffs in his decision that overruled the Pentagon's new gay poli · significant weight on future decisions, ashington: America's Heroic Quest for Equality The Contract with America is almost at a its 100 day mark, as · egislative session steam ahead with bills and reviews of reg ·spending items. by Marc Foster The Concordiensis Staff The O.l Simpson trial em- bodies the rift between the races. Statistics show that more .than half of whites believe that Simpson is guilty, while less than one-fifth ofblacks believe that he is actually guilty. The Simpson trial is another manifestation of the raging debate over affirma- tive action which is divisive and racially -charged. The 1964 Civil Rights Act in- tended to rectify the practice of hiring whites while discriminat- ing against others on the basis of racial or ethnic background. With any piece oflegislation, the law is what the bureaucrats make it to be, The end results are poli- cies that are distorted and mangled, sometimes undermin- ing the goal that the legislation sought to achieve. In the case of the Civil Rights Act, the ideal of colorblind equal opportunity evolved into a system of quotas supplanting the bias toward black males with the bias of propor- tional representatiort The conse- quence of such a system is that the workplace is to reflect soci- ety at large via contrived quotas that disregard what is the core of national achievement. Steven Roberts writes, \Affirmative ac- tion poses a conflict between two cherished American principles: the belief that all Americans de- serve equal opportunities and the idea that hard work and merit, not race, religion, gender or birth- right, should determine who pros- pers and who does not.\ Despite, the gains made over the past three decades, blacks re- main at a disadvantage. Propo- nents of affirmative action cite that incomes of blacks as a pro- portion.ofwhite males; has actu- ally fallen since 1975 from 74.3% to 74.0% in 1993. African- Americans comprise a small frac- tion of America's professions- 4.2% ·Of doctors, 3.7% of engi- neers, and 3.3% of all lawyers. The objective of affirmative action enjoys widespread support across the country, but the method is now coming under fire for what many see as the inversion of ra- cial preferences to give African- Americans an unfai~ advantage over whites, especially white males. The juxtaposition of the notion that hard work and merit should determine who prospers. The patent need for affirmative action inevitably yields conflict. However, the movement to end affirmative action is growing, despite the apparent need for some fair playing field rules. It is fueled by conservatives and lib- erals alike. Hispanic columnist Roger Hernandez wrote: \I've never understood why Hispanic liberals, so sensitive to slights from the racist right, don't take offense at the patronizing racists ofthe left who say that being His- panic makes you an idiot.\ The solution that is evolving is that affirmative actions is akin to legislating morality; it antago- nizes white, underestimates the abilities of minorities, and ulti- mately undermines its goals of interracial harmony. The House defeats Term Limits, one of the GOP's ten mandates. The Senate approved in a 99-0 vote that the 13.5 billion in spe ng cuts for the current fiscal year be applied to reducing the Defici not to cutting taxes. Turkey seeks support for its continued offensive into Northern I deal with Kurdish separatists rebel bases that wage across the terrorism. Nigeria's new military dictator, General Abacha, used mass <>rr•\<::r<: issals of army officers, and other measures designed to maintai authority. Mexico's Rebels offer a Proposal for Peace Talks. A converted Russian nuclear missile with a $3,5 million Israeli sat lite crashed into a Sea of Okhotsk. A German rate cut by the Central Bank has propped the dollar 2 percent making the dollar relative to the German currency .4083 marks. The .t.B.l. learned Castro led his own inquiry into the Kenn , Castro said, \Oswald could not have 'done this jo one and could not have tired the rifle three times in succession it the target with that telescopic arrangement, but needed the help least two other men.\' - Researchers report that a baby born with H. I. V. ( +) successfu offthe infection by age' one. The boy's blood test is now H.I.V. and he is healthy at 5 and I /2 years of

Page 6 • April6, 1995 • The Concordiensis Seien~e & Medicine Birch Bark, National Parks and the Endangered Species Law Bone Substitute Heals Fractures Faster by Dennis Popeo Scie11ce & Medicine Editor from a common mold and taxol, ourselves in the foot. Destroy- a breast and ovarian cancer treat- ing acres of forest also destroys ment was derived from the Pacific countless species of plant and It seems that scientists have yewtree. In fact, many treatments animal, many never before seen, once again looked towards the fa- and cures have been isolated by or studied. These plants must be miliar to find the extraordinary. scientists that have looked to na- studied and used sensibly, not We are all familiar with Birch tore instead of synthesizing com- wasted. . trees. They are the white trees pounds from chemicals in bottles. If an area is to be utilized for with the bark that seems to be Perhaps this is the best reason development, then all the species perpetually peel- r-----~-~-=--------.-- ........ ---....._..-, of plant and ani- ing off. In fact, Birch trees ... could be a major mal in the area we can find some should be cata• around campus, breakthrough in the treatment logued, If some or perhaps in new species of . Jackson's Gar- of human melanoma, a fatal \ plant and animal dens. It seems is found~ in the that this rather skin cancer. area,orifthearea common plant '------~--------------------' is found to house could be a major breakthrough in the treatment of human mela- noma, a fatal skin cancer. Betulinic acid, a compound iso- lated from the bark of the birch tree works better than the most commonly prescribed medica- tions for melanoma. Researchers at the University of Illinois at Chicago are presently experi- menting on rats infected with hu- man melanoma tumors. and are observing that the tumors are shrinking and disappearing from the mice after the betulinic acid treatment. to protect our environment. an endangered species, develop- America and the world must ini- ment must be halted until thespe- tiate a rational plan to save spe.: cies can be transplanted to an area cies of plants and animals from protected from development. destruction for the simple reason The development of our wilder- that these plants or animals may ness areas need not mean the hold the key to curing diseases senseless destruction of the nu- such as AIDS. This is why envi- merous plant and animal species ronmental protection acts must be located on the land. In fact, de- passed. velopment should be as kind to Environmentalists are urging the local environment as possible. President Clinton to uphold the The resources that we use for Endangered Species Act. The medicinal purposes must also be Act will protect countless acres of carefully monitored. It is true that flora and fauna from being de- both the Pacific yew and the stroyed, and is another program Birch can treat cancer, but these under fire from the Republican treatments will not be effective if \Contract With America\. The the main ingredifi:nts, borrowed \Contract\ seeks to lift bans of from nature run out. It is coon- development and allow the use of terproductive to make Taxol to areas that house endangered spe- treat people if we kill all the yew cies. trees that produce the drug in the In other countries across the . first place. · by Dennis Pc,peo Scitnce & Medicine Editor There is a new treatment on the forefront of orthopedic medicine that will change the way bone fractures are dealt , with in the emergency room. Doctors are testing a bone sub- stitute in our nation's hospitals. The substitute can be used to mend broken bones; it can be injected into fractures, where it hardens and aids healing. The substitute can also be used to help elderly patients with osteoporosis by mending their eroded bones. The substitute is called The Skeletal Repair System, or SRS. The inventor, Brent Consta.nz, was inspired to create SRS by observing the growth of coral, and reading a line from Shakespeare's The Tempest which likens bone to coral. Coral grows and repairs itself through a pro.cess known as biomineralization. This process is responsible for the crystalli- zation ofminerals to form -skel- etal structures in the animal! These structures form without · guidance from genes, hormones or other biological or organic agents. Constanz's success was hard earned; he created over 1200 different mixtures before he came upon the final formula for SRS. SRS is a mixture of cal- cium phosphate and sodium phosphat~. minerals that make up the natural bpne in our bod- . ies, This compound mimics ·bone .so completely that it is . accepted by the body's inunlifie system and bone regrowth ap- paratus. SRS is being tested in 'hospi- tals sueh as Massachusetts Gen- eral on patients that have been diagnosed with broken wrists. This is one of the_ first steps needed to .gain· approval frorn the Food and Drug Admiidstra- tion for use in the U.S. SRS has already been approved for use in Holland and has undergone European clinical tri.als for use · in the treatmenCof fractures of the wrist, shin, knee, hip and spine. I~ appears that SRS will be approved by the FDA not only for the emergency treat- ment of fractures, but also· for · the treatment of osteoporosis, a degenerative weakening of the · bones that affects many older women; Aside from the clinical prom- ise of SRS, it also shows fiscal promise. If effective, SRS can · save an estimated $4 billion on the cost of hip fractures in the • U.S. alone. The projected sav- ings from SRS will help cut costs of medical emergency treatments, a must in order to be considered a viable option.in our changing health care sys- tem. Birch bark peels naturally from the tress, which grow in temper- ate regions of the Northern US and Canada, and is acquired eas- ily. The laboratory was able to prepare nearly 100 human doses of the melanoma treatment from fifty pounds of Birch bark that naturally dropped off trees in the area of the laboratory. The re- searchers are hopeful that human testing of the drug will begin within a year. Melanoma is ex- pected to appear in over 30,000 Americans, and kill approxi- mately 7,000. The researchers warn, however, that people suf- fering from melanoma should not try to make home remedies· with Birch bark, and should report any symptoms of the disease, includ- ing skin growths that change in size or color, to their doctor im- mediately. globe, acres of forested land, Nature, above all, can be both jungles and rain forests are being a friend and foe to the human ani- destroyed everyday. Although mals on Earth. We should try to progress is important, we as a glo- remain in harmony with nature, bal community must not shoot or suffer the fatal consequences. Write for Science & Medicine Finding cures for diseases in common plants is nothing new. It is well known that medicines such as penicillin were discovered JUNIORS! Appling to Health Profession Pro- grams? The Pre-Health Ad- visory Committee will be processing student's applications early in the spring erm. If you have no yet done so, please see Kathy Hopper in the Dean's Office (S-1 00) to pick up lication materials. Biology Department Seminars all seminars, unless otherwise specified, will be held in Social Sciences 103. Refreshments served, 4:30 April6 \Rabies; Trends in Hwnans and Animals Dr. Cathleen Hanlon; NYS Health Labs April12 in Bailey Hall, Room 201 \Cell Division and cell Geometry\ Dr. Raymond Rappaport; Mount Desert Island Biology Laboratory April13 Special Minerva Lecture 11:30 AM in CC Audi.torium \Sexual Differentiation of the Brain and the Origins of Sexuality: The News Media and Reality;' Dr. Roget: Gorski; UCLA April27 \A New Source of Evidence on the Origin of the Flowering Plants: Homeotic Gene Homologs\ Dr. Michael Frohlich; Union College Chemistry Department .Seminars all seminars, unless otherwise specified, will be held in Humanities019. Refreshments served, 12:30 April6 \Clyclodextrins as Enantioselective Modifiers for Chiral Capillary Electrophoresis: CE and NMR studies\ Dr. Karen Sentell; University ofVennont

OF/ED The Concordiensis · April6, 1995 · Page 7 . · EDITORIAL The Student Newspaper of Union CollegeSince 1877 Scllenectady's Oldest Newspaper Union Students' Apathy Diana. Sedita EDITOR Elizabeth DeKoven NEWS EDITOR Alexis Leist FEATURES EDITOR Suzanne Robinson Leena Mankad ARTS EDITORS Rick Lederer PI-!OTO EDITOR Stephanie Kuehn COPY EDITOR Ken Berman Jason Starr SPORTS EDITORS Mathew Sandler WORLD NEWS EDITOR Lisa. Lemoi EXECUTIVE EDITOR Dennis Popeo SCIENCE EDITORS Alex Shapiro LIVING EDITOR Brett Saunders COMPUTER MANAGER Jared Richman CARTOONIST Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR Tony LaVecchia OPINIONS EDITOR Alex Johnson BUSINESS EDITOR PHOTOGRAPHERS: Scott Druckemiller, Laurel Ruma, Deborah Proper, Laurie Kirschner. STAFF: Emily Battis, Vinod Dasa, Jeff ·Ellen, Sarah Ruth Evans, Marc Foster, Nalini Gupta, Mike Leding, Adrian MacLean, Martin Metz, Bharat Navani, Bhavani Meduri, Larry Paska, Billy Shakos, Shveta Srivastava, , Rawson Thurbet·, Carrie Wheeler, Illisa Wood. Time and time again, both professors and a hand full of students call the average Union College stu- dent very apathetic. Why? Is it because they just do not care what goes on around them? Are they unconcerned when it comes to administrative de- cisions that affect them? Do they feel I ike they will not or can not make a .difference? Or is it because not enough information is given to the student body? Perhaps it is a combination.ofall these factors. Union students are always ready to complain when something happens that they do not I ike. However, they never actually do anything to fix the problem. Many students who feel like they are \kept in the dark\ about the happenings on campus. This is not only the administration's fault- the students are also to blame. How often do stu- dents have big plans to voice their opinions and then the whole plan folds? This happens over and over again. a perfect example of this. occurred during the tenth week of winter tenn and the first week .of spring term. A large group of students were supposed to hold a picket and stage a sit in to voice their disapproval ofthe Meal Plan deci- sion. Did this happen? No. The administration should try to make every ef- fort to inform the campus community of possible proposals that will affect us. The key word here is proposals-not decisions. All too often the cam- p.us learns of decisions that were made without . --~ LETTERS · To the Editor: In my years here at Union College, I have· taken escort services back to my on campus as well as offcampus residence. Usually I would have to wait about fifteen to twenty minutes for the van to come and pick me up. This amount of waiting time is really not so bad. Hoever, I, as well as my friends,have had to wait up to fifty mint:1tes for the escort to come pick them up. Why should this happen? A friend of mine called the service one night during a snow storm and was told that all escort services had been suspended until after the storm subsided. That was the end of the discussion. The operator on the phone did not offer any alternatives such as having an security or someone else walk her horne. r have also noticed that once the crime spree that occured this past fall subsided, escort no longer drops students off in front of their dorms. The students have to walk all the way to their dorm from a back parking lot. Has our safety concerns decreased simply because crime has decreased? Will it take more muggings for increased security and escort measures? There are some solutions that will make the campus community safer. 1. Have the escort vans run like buses from the major points on campus (the College Center, Science and Engineering, Fox, Richmond, etc.) 2. Leave the chains that are strung across the pathways down during the evenings so the students can be dropped off directly infront of their dorms. 3. If escort is unable to drive a student to their residence, they should have someone walk the student to their door. These are just some suggestions to keep the campus community safer. I would also like to hear any more suggestion the escort service has. Sincerely, member of the class of'95 Please send your Letters to the Editor to the Concordiensis drop box in the College Center, room 303. Submit them on a high density disk with a hard copy by Monday at 5:00pm • their prior knowledge, in other words, we are \kept in the datk.\ Most ofthe time, members of Union College can not propose other alternatives or change the decisions. All of these decisions in some fonn or another affect every person on this campus. TillS can be done for example, through pnnting a copy of the minutes of the meetings. It is understood that some things must be kept confidential and that some of the ideas put forth at the meeting are unrealistic and could start rumor mills. However, the viable and realistic options should be presented to the stu- dent body. Many students would have great input and suggestions for the administration to consider. The student government is an elected democracy and should act as a bridge connecting the students to the administration. However this is not being done. All to often, students do not participate enough in the Student Government. This does not mean you have to run for election, it s.imply means that stu- dents need to go to the Student Council meetings and voice their opinions. Also the members in Stu- dent Government need to be the voice of the stu- dents and be a true student leader ... notjust a figure- head. Go to the administration or your student leaders. They are here to represent you. Remember also that you elect them and you the students have the power to change things. If you do decide to get off your butts and actually do something, do more than just complain to your friends .

Page 8 · April6, 1995 ·The Concordiensis \. I ('~ TR'f :IT!! YOU'll LII<E XTJf'\' \.\ - .... / ' \ ' I / \ , I ~ ---, i ----- ', ..... _..,J ~' I I ' l I I ' ~\\\ ,_ \ I , I I OPtED . . ·. . . .·. · OPINIONS . · . ' ' . ' . . . ' . ' ' The Meal Plan Decision: The Administration's Covert Operation by Tony LaVecdiia Opinions Editor I'm smc that by now almost everyone is aware that the admin- istration is trying to force all resi- dents of Greek houses to be on a seven-meal plan next year. I think that aside from the fact that this move will be inconvenient it should also raise a larger issue To what degree does the admin- istration really care what the stu- dents (read customers) actually think? The point here is not simply to whine because I am being forced to eat gruel at West and Upper Class for three more years, but to bring attention to the lack of any real student input into major de- Cisions which will directly affect every member of the student body. TillS move 1s more than Just a way to balance the budget, but rather it seems to me 1t is some- thing that will severely change the Greek system and the general way oflife at Union. With this in mind, I think that the students should have been more involved in the decision making process. I think this particular instance illustrates the lack of respect the administration feels for the stu- dent body. I personally feel really cheated about the way the whole thing was handled. First of all, the decision was made without first notifying the student body. I think the fact that we were intention- ally left in the dark severely lim- ited our ability to resist the change. I think the way we were left out of the decision is indica- tive of the lack of student involve- ment in decision making pro- cesses. The timing and ciFcumstances of the decision were also ques- tionable. It seems that the way the administration handled the decision made it hard for stu- dents to resist it. I think it was no coincidence that the decision was made after most Greek alumni had left from Founders Day celebrations. I also think it was not an accident that it was not until the last official issue of The Cbncordiensis was pub- lished that the decision was an- nounced. I also find it conve- nient that after we found out about the new policy, President Hull left campus until during fi- nals week. In many ways it seems as though our collective power as a student body was being intentionally limited by the admimstration 's actions. I have heard the accusation by cntics that Union students suf- fer from apathy. To that charge I respond that the administration is responsible for our lack of hope in our own power. I think that the student body would be much more vibrant if the admin- istration was a bit more respon- sive to our opinions. I am not expecting the school to be run by a bunch of 19 year olds, but I simply expect and will continue to demand a little more say. Af- ter all, we are the customers in this situation. It is the student body that shapes the fate ofthis institution, and financially, and spiritually allow it to exist I sug- gest that the administration starts taking us more seriously before people and perspective students start to take Union less seriously. Honestly, despite the impres- sion that one may get from read- ing my columns, I really love Union. The biggest problem I per- ceive, and the oHe I address in my columns in one form or another, week after week, is the lack of re- sponsiveness the administration often acts toward us with. It seems that in recent years the institution of mandatory 200 dollar Vali-Dine accounts and food service privatization have been forced on us. It is my hope that a year from now, I will not be referring to the move to force Greeks to be on the seven-meal plan as yet another stu- dent defeat, but rather as a victory to rally around. I think we have to look at this point as a turning point in student involvement at Union College. As we have proven over the past two weeks, we can and will rally around our interests. By standing up for our own interests, students will be im- proving the quality of this institu- tion for all those involved. Hale House All Night Study & Nott Memorial Hours of Operation Hale House All Night Studl.- Beginning at 10 pm 7 days pe:r week \Study under the watchful gaze of the white male luminaries of Union's past. \ Nott Memorial\\ 12:06 noon -10:00 p~ Sun.-Thur. 12:00 noon-5:00pm Fri.-Sat. \Browse amidst Union memorabilia, bask in the glory of the masterful restoration of th1s architectural monadnock or study in the toney upper reaches of the second balcony.\ Please note - Food and drink are .nott permitted in the Nott. . - .( , 1 vc se tb pl te hi C2 t\! ee ee dr re de it h~ ed tn nc pr he in tee pr' stt tn n ap re~ tic pn m1 vu frc mi iss ne. ria Ct. sw of SOl tio en pri res SW fre tac the cal apJ wh we ·We Hu rec der brG anc reh Foi the run rea to a in 1 rna w~ pri1 ha\ Rat als vid r.esc E Plo twe

.OP/ED The Concordiensis \April6 1995 • page 9 The Student Forum: Working for You? It's Time for Some Fo!rum Leaders to Start Taking Responsibility for Their Actions (Or Lack of) ' by David Levine Concordiensis Staff Is it too much to expect that elected student politicians seek the assistance of their constituents before rendering decisions on issues that will greatly alter campus life? Ev- ery person serving on the Student Forum promised to en- hance 1he lines of communication between the administra- With the consensus student opinion fresh in their minds, the four students attacked the privatization issue. However, they succumbed to the administration after each member of the committee was called into the President's Office. The students voted 4-0 to approve privatization and the President proclaimed overwhelming student approval for the system. tion and the student body. The facts about how :little some vided a detailed description of the events leading to the stand\ membersofthisyear 1 sForumbavedonetobridgethechasm off to the Student Forum. During the presentation\ I pre- are alarming. sented the contention that Union could stand to lose its repli- Late last year, after the Student Forum elections, a contro- tation in the community by threatening to choke versy broke concerning the possible privatization of dining Schenectady's tax base if local politicians rejected the services. Aside from early speculation,. which appeared on College's ·proposal for special use zoning permits. I was the ·pages of The Concordiensis in January 1994, the issue of lambasted by the two student trustees for even mentionmg privatization was kept secret by the administration until af- this side of the story during the presentation, even though ter the Board of Trustees charged the President to pursue this opinion did not necessarily reflect my personal beliefs bids from private corporations. The only students on the on the subject. Several members of the Forum even stipu- campus who were aware ofthe imminent shake-up were the lated that it was ludicrous to suggest that the administration two students who sat as representatives on the Board afTrust- could act in a fashion that might be detrimental to the school ees last year. These students told nobody about the Trust- in the long run. The administration, like Rush Limbaugh, ees' proposal. In fact, by the time the administration ad- might also have a monopoly on the truth. That assertion, l dressed the Student Forum last Spring, the school had al- am afraid, is highly dubious. For whatever it's worth, the ready reviewed the submitted contract proposals. The Stu- case is now pending in the courts. dent Forum was slow to gauge student sentiment, even though This latest incident, concerning the mandatory campus it was plainly obvious that the Trustees' brainstorm would meal plan, best typifies the elitist, egotistical nature of stu- have far reaching effects on every student. Only after the dent government at Union. During the middle part of winter editorial board of The Concordiensis criticized the adminis- term, the campus was buzzing with rumors concerning how tration for neglecting students and the Student Forum for the College would raise the funds to match the shortfall in not 1aking action to slow the process, was the issue finally its budget if the proposed federal and state budgets, full of presented before the student body. cuts in funding to educational institutions and students re- President Hull reacted quickly to the impending crisis, and qui ring financial assistance, passed through their r~spective he attempted to create a semblance of student involvement legislatures. During the early stages, the President consulted in the decision by self-appointing four students to a commit- the Student Trustees, who were instructed not to tell anyone tee that would review the private proposals, along with the about the mandatory meal plan proposal. Later. the Plan- proposal from Union College Dining Services. Those four ning and Priorities Committee. which contains several stu- students -last year's two Student Trustees. this year's junior dent representatives among many members, discussed the trustee, and this year's Student Forum President- sat at the issue. Those meetings are closed and the discussions are To-wn Meeting and listened to the student sentiment. The cortfidential. approximately 50 students who spoke at the event offered a Shortly after this meeting, The Student Forum became resounding and unified objection to the administration's an- aware that Hull canceled a meeting with fraternity presidents. tics and thoroughly rejected the proposal for immediate I called the President before The Concordiensis went to press privatization. President Hull, Diane Blake, and other ad'- · for its seventh issue bf the term and asked h1m whether he ministrators were present at the Town Meeting. Hull was · COl.lld verify the rurrwrs that Greeks would be forced onto visibly upset with the overwhelmingly negative response the school meal plan. He said that the rumors were Judi- from students, and despite their attempts at openness, ad- . crous and unsubstantiated. ministrators sidestepped several important While this may be true, his comments to the local press un- dermined the credibility of the protesters. Furthermore, while holding personal opinions that differ from the campus consensus is justifiable, it is inexcusable to ignore the pleas of those students who elected h1m last year I agree with Mr. Coffin that each student who lives on earn- pus, whether Greek or non-Greek, should be charged the same amount by the school, and that Greeks should not enjoy spe- cial privileges. But, that really isn't the issue at hand. On a much more serious front, the Student Forum should be addressing and whether the administration is seeking sufficient student in- put, whether the Forum is truly representing its constituency. Nam~ly, the Forum should be asking itself: Are the admin- istration and the Student Forum allowing for representative democracy at Union.? A close examination reveals that the administration has promoted elitism in the student government, and members of the Forum have furthered their cause, thereby driving a wedge between the mainstream students and the admimstra- tion. Some student leaders are enamored wtth the Pres1dent's policy of entrusting them, a select group of int1uentml stu- dents, with important information, and asking them to ren- der critical decisions that will impact the entire student body without seeking the opinions of their peers. These students feel important and have defended the system adamantly. Several students were invited to two Planning and Priori- ties Committee Meetings, one at the end of last term and one this term. At the first meeting, a concerned individual asked why students couldn't be made aware of the developments at the P&P meetings. Several students, including the Stu· dent Forum V.P. of Administration, quickly responded to this question by intimating that students couldn't possibly understand the complexity of the budget ~hey had reviewed for four months, .and shouldn't be bothered wtth the detmls. This is terribly msulting, but 1t is not surpnsing. While the leaders of the Forum all promtsed to mcrease the level of communication between students and the ad- ministration, what have they done during this issues that surfaced as a result of their hasti- ness to raise some extra cash. At the Town Meeting and in the edito- rial appearing in the May 19 issue of The Concordiensis, students demanded an- swers to their questions about the future of Greek kitchens. These concerns were somewhat assuaged when the administra- tion half-heartedly replied that the kitch- ens would not be threatened by privatization. Still, the four student rep- resentatives were asked to find the real an- swers to this and other pressing concerns. Either Roger Hull is using his hypnotic charm on them, or they are promoting their own self- interests by ingratiating the administration at th_e expense of their fellow students. I'd like to say otherwise, but some Forum members have to prove their mettle before these accusations can be dismissed. year to facilitate a new era of interaction? To this point in the year, they have held no town meetings, and there have been no group dis- cussions on pertinent issues. That is not to say that the Forum hasn't addressed pressing con- cerns, but it is an indication that through its inaction, the Forum has exacerbated student apathy by ignoring students' opinions. Once again, the Forum is indirectly approving of the elitist system perpetuated by the administration. They are also promoting an era of anti- intellectualism at Union by indicatmg.that op- posing opinions are not we.lcome at this Col- lege. Instead of congratulating Diana Sedita, Concordy's new editor, on the outstanding job With the consensus student opinion tresh in their minds, the four students at- tacked the privatization issue. However, they succumbed to the administration after each member of the committee was called into the President's Office. The students voted 4-0 to approve privatization and the President proclaimed over- whelming student approval for the system. During final exam week, the President held a meeting with Dining Services ·Workers to announce the final decision to privatize. Though Hull announced the decision before students left for summer recess, the impeccable timing of the announcement left stu- dents no time to voice their frustrations. This fall, Marriot brought their economies of scale savings to Schenectady, and the rest is history. This academic year promised to bring hope for improving relatioils between students and the administration. Student Forum leaders praised the composition of the Forum early in the year, calling the organization of students \The Best Fo- rum Ever,\ and proclaiming that \we have the experience to really get things done.\ Maybe this Forum had the potential to achieve these goals, but something has gone terribly wrong in the process. As a group, the forum has failed at its pri- mary tasks of informing and representing the student body. While prominent members of the Forum have enjoyed the privileges associated with student leadership positions, they have failed to provide any kind of consistent leadership. Rather, they have acquiesced to the administration's propos- als without gathering student sentiment, and they have pro- vided a roadblock to those students who truly believe in rep- resentative democracy. Early during the winter term, after the long-standing G.E. Plot Controversy started to rekindle the weak relations be- tween some Schenectady residents and the College, I pro- On Wednesday of that week, Hull addressed the Student Forum and announced that the administration was seriously considering implementing this mandatory plan and that forc- ing students onto the plan was one of the few ways the school could protect against radical tuition increases. Much to my dismay, the President, sitting alongside the student trustees, and Dean Alford, explained that he agreed to m.eet with the Forum after Nate Coffin assured him that the meeting would be closed, and all discussions would be confidential. At this meeting, most of the members discussed the impli- cations of the administration's proposals. After I reiterated my resentment that most of the student body would be left in the dark until after the administration rendered a decision, I was told by the administration that I \had a conflict of inter- est,\ because of my involvement with the newspaper and the Student Forum. Only one member of the Forum openly supported the contention that it was our responsibility as a Forum to inform the student body and seek their input. This is highly disturbing. After the administration's decision became public knowl- edge, the Intrafraternity Council supported a series of pro- tests, during which they flooded upperclass and West dining halls, with the intent of showing the effects of the manda- tory meal plan on overcrowding. Though the protests were not highly successful, largely because the Greeks mostly or- dered drinks instead of meals, the response of the Student Forum President to the protests demonstrated his undying support for the administration. He half-heartedly admitted that students were justified for protesting, but he proceeded to tell members of the local press that dining se'rvices showed that they have the capacity to deal with an influx of students. the newspaper staff did in preparing the special edition on the meal plan issue at the end of last term, the Forum Presi- dent responding to Sedita's questioning of the lack of stu- dent input by saying 'Tm glad you're carrying on the torch of pissing off the President.'' Is he arguing that the adminis- tration, and the Forum, do not welcome student involvement? Ifhe, and a handful of other Forum members are stifling and not equally representing opposing opinions, there are sev- eral explanations as to why they are doing so. Either Roger Hull is using his hypnotic charm on them, or they are pro- moting their own self-interests by ingratiating the adminis- tration at the expense of thw fellow students. I'd I ike to say otherwise, but some Forum members have to prove the1r mettle before these accusations can be dism1ssed. As tor whether there is a representative democracy at Union, I think it's insulting to the American democratic system to even put Union's system of representation in the same category. While many politicians follow their own agendas, at least the vot- ers can relieve them of their duties when they fail to fulfill their campaign promises ... and when budget concerns sur- face, the national press isn't censored from printing perti- nent information. The debates take place through the me- dia. and citizens have their views presented. Isn't that what representative democracy is all about? Thi.<; opinion is not in/ended to he a reflection on every member c~f the S'tudent Forum. The appearance l~{ the Forum~v lack c?f concern come.vfrom the top c!f the organi=a- tion. Additionally, this should in no way detract from the accomplishments c!f the various student committees, which have been very active this year. Members c!f the Forum have chaired and served on these commitlees admirably. I I I I

PagelO • April6, 1995 • The Concordiensis Arts and Entertainment There's Nothing Good in Store for Clerks back .on the shelf and left to ex- pire. by L. Scoop Paska Concordiensis Staff Rating: * 1/2 (out of four) Clerks, shown last weekend on campus, is writer/director Kevin Smith's tirst tilm. Shot mostly on location in the very same conve- nience store Smith and his bud- dies worked at, it won great praise at numerous film festivals last year, and some have already deemed ita \cult hit.\ ltcertainly wasn't a box-office hit. The film is shot in black-in white, as if seen through the .eyes of an in-store video camera. While Smith tries to pass this technique off as cre- ative, compared to the rest.ofthe film, it really is. The characters arc dull and narrow-minded. The plot, supposedly about the typi- cal .goings-on for one day at the store. is so wildly improbable it is hard even to take this one-note comedy lightly. The lead has only sex on his mind, his video store-worker pal has no work ethic, the lead's girlfriend reveals to the audience she really sucks, and the lead's old flame returns to have sex with a corpse. Char- acters like these belong on USA Up All Night, which is where this piece oftrash should end up. Is the audience any better for hav- ing met these characters? Are these characters memorable? Do Where the Girls Are: Growing Up Female with the Mass Media Courtesy of Times Books Publicity serious scholarly journals, Dou- glas takes us on a lively and thought-provoking tour begin- Baby boom culture IS every- ning in the 1940's rmd 50's with where today. from the prolifera- Snow White and Cmderella. tion of oldies stations to the end- Douglas reveals how seemingly less reruns of \Get Smart,\ and demure and passive cultural icons \!Dream of.leannie\ to the elec- also served as powerful examples tion of the iirst president to have of independent girls and women. a favorite Beatie. Most women Gidget may have been nauseat- cringe at the pop culture past they ingly perky. Douglas points out, once embraced - beehive hair, but she otten struck out on her bikini-clad watusi dancing, twig- own and did things her way.· thin models, go-go-boot-clad Shirley Owens's sweet song dancers in cages- hoping to for- \Will You Love Me Tomorrow?\ get their kitschy incarnations. Yet reflected the uncertainty of mil- there are good reasons why these I ions of girls who. in the grip of \unl iberated\ TV shows, popular sexual desire, were asking them- songs, advertisements and fash- selves \Should I or shouldn't I?\ ion trends held girls in thrall. And even the sex ism of Susan J. Douglas., in the wonder- ''Chari ie 's Angels\ was under- fully funny and provocative book, mined by the unprecedented ap- U1here tlieG.irt~~?fi·e~;?(Jreiv\ilig~'&jfo ,; pear;aiiGe· of dwee sav.vy, smal't, Female with the Afa;s Media, independent women on prime (Times Books. April 17, 1995: time television. $14.00). now available in paper- In Where the Girls Are, Dou- back. deciphers the decidedly glas never loses her sense ofhu- m ixed messages conveyed to girls moras she charts the course from over the last tour decades and genies, witches and flying nuns, shows how the American mass to the burgeoning feminist con- media has influenced and helped sciousness in the '70's. to the su- shape not only society's percep- perwoman ofthe '80's. She bril- tionofwomen.butwomen'sper- liantly captures women's love- ception of themselves. hate relationship with the mass In the hook that \vas prarsed by media as she discusses the pow- both pop culture magazines and erful intluence of beauty stan- dards in magazines, advertise- 1 ments on the female psyche, and · the irresistible appeal of TV shows such as '\Dynasty\ and \Dallas.\ While The Ronettes, Patty ·. Duke, and the Bionic Woman may seem unlikely feminist hero- . ines, Douglas validates them as cultural touchstones for today's women. \We must rewatch and relisten,\ she writes, \but with a new mission: to go where the girls are. It's time to reclaim a past. too frequently ignored, hooted at, and dismissed because it is in these images of women that we find the roots of who we are now.\ With wit, wisdom, and a keen eye for the absurd, Douglas supplies a crucial missing chap- ter in the cultural history of our time. · PO '\Douglas is a snappy, opinion- ated writer...brilliant... Where the . Girls Are deftly explores how the mass media has made us women what we are today - cultural schizophrenics who rebel against yet submit to the prevailing im- ages of what a desirable woman should be ... Douglas does a great job of excavating the origins of our ambivalence.\- Fresh Air, National Public Radio Apartment For Rent 4 Bedroom with Bathroom & Kitchen 1 Block away from school Quiet Neighborhood Washer & Dryer Free cable & Parking 1039 Park A venue Call Today before it is too late! (800) 806-67 55 Dimitrios Gatanas the characters evolve or change their perspeetives by the end of the film? The answers are no, no, NO!!! The only actors worth watching are the two bums out- side the convenience store, mak- ing profane signs and disturbing the peace. Of course, Smith is least interested in these guys, us- ing them to break up scenes. This film passes the time, but as twentysomething-breakthrough- films go, this one should be put This week's film: The Shawshank Redemption The Academy Award-nomi- nated story of two prisoners stars Tim Robbins and Morgan Free- man. Oscar nominations for Pic- tt~re, Supporting Actor (Free- man), Story, and based on the novella by Stephen King. Pow- erful, emotional storyteJiing; ri- diculous title. Friday-Monday in the College Center Auditorium. Department of Performing Arts presents A VIOLIN-PIANO RECITAL featuring Kevin Huang '96, Violin Profess.or Hugh Allen Wilson, Piano performing Franz Schubert: Sonatina # 1 in D Ludwig Van Beethoven: Sonata #4 in A Minor Bohuslav Martinu: Arabesques (Etudes Rythmiques) Sunday, April 9, 1995 3:00PM Room 215, Arts Building Reception immediately following performance Open to the public No admission charge t (

Arts and Entertainmemt Th~ Concordiensis • April6, 1995 • Page I 1 THE REEL PICTURE - Outbreak Spreads The Plot Too Lightly \Outbreak.'' Starring Dustin Hoffman, Rene Russo, Morgan Freeman. Directed by Wolfgang Petersen. Rated R, Warner Bros. Picture~. Rating; ** (outoffour) by Larry Paska ConcordiensisStaff Anyone who saw The Stand last Spring probably went into Outbreak expecting anoth.er world-comes-to-an-end produc- tion, only this time lavishly bloWn up with big-name stars, a respect- able director, and an intriguing (not to mention haunting) plot. The TV mini-series opened with a bang, and soon practically ev- eryone on earth was dead. It;'s always frightening to visualize life destroyed by man's greed and folly, and when such stories are made into movies, everyone wants to see the new interpreta- tion of mankind's ultimate anni- hilation from the planet. It's no wonder Outbreak is a major success in theaters. Who isn't at least curious about what the planet could be like when civi- lization is eradicated from it? And what of the timeless fable that too many advancements in technology and science will only destroy humans? Knowledge may be power, but too much poweds a bad thing. However, .expecting the world to end in Outbreak is like asking Jim Carrey to star in a Merchant/ :Ivory produc- special effects in the film are sim- ply incredible (as is the make-up, displaying .innocent civilians who painfully fight an unknown killer). Hoffman plays a scientist who is called to a sleepy California town when an outbreak of the vi- rus begins. This is the same vi- rus seen at the military base (30 As if a deadly virus no one can find the cure for isn't enough, Hoffinanand Russo are treated to another enemy-the army. Led by Donald Sutherland (in his typi- cal role), the military apparently wants to keep the spreading virus a secret. Freeman, as an anny of- ficer and Hoffman's friend, wants to centain both the virus and tion: it just do~sn 't happen. In place of a se- rious social theme or gruel- It's always frightening to visualize life destroyed by man's greed and folly, and when such stories are made into movies, everyone wants to see the new interpretation of mankind's ul- timate annihilation from the planet. ing portrayal of science gone astray, the film- . makers focus in- stead of the star power of leads Hoffman and Russo. Hoffman, who is supposedly getting involved too much in solving the case. Here is where the film begins to get more holes than Swiss cheese. Why does the anny always have That is not to say the film does not have its great moments, In fact, it ~as many pulse-pounding moments. Like the opening se- quence, where an entire military base is destroyed as theanny dis- covers its soldiers have contracted the incurable Motaba virus, ·which kills its victims within days. The years ago), so he suspects it was bro1,1ght to the U.S. by a host ani- ImiL Russo, his ex-wife and lab partner, team up to solve the mys- tery and their divorce. Their struggle to find a cure before the entire nation gets contaminated is further complicated when the vi- rus mutates, becoming airborne so all can catch it. to play the bad guy in action films'} With hundreds of geneticists. biologists. and whatever-it-is-Ists running around trying to stop the virus. how is it only Hoffman has the common sense to know where to start searching? How come when hundreds of civilians are dying. no one is frantic. but when Russo suddenly contracts the virus. Hoffman races to the finish line like there's no tomorrow? And lastly ... what is a ten-minute long helicopter chase doing in a film about the possible extinction of man? But that's just it. Instead of being made to feel! ike something serious is happening here, the au- dience (and the virus) 1s neatly contained within the small Cali- fornia town. Hoffman's first film since Hero is the welcomed re- turn of a seasoned actor, but he does not do well. in a role like this: his mannerisms are too static. Russo, as usual, is okay, but don't look for her at Oscar night any- time soon. OveralL Outbreak is a fascinat- ing idea that, unlike its virus, doesn't go very far. It's nice to see a mainstream film defy con- vention. but sadly this movie tnes to keep everythmg neat and or- derly at the expenseofsomethmg every moviegoer should know don't mess with nature and sci- ence. The special effects are out- standing: but then. what would you expect from a movie that cost $50 million to produce? What About Me The Department of Visual Arts presents Courtesy of Public Relations Passport Cinemas presents \'Off-hollywood\, now showing. What About Me, directed, pro- duced and written by Rachel Amodeo. What About Me tells the story of a young woman, Lisa Naploitano (Rachel Amodeo), who, through uncontrollable cir- cumstances, finds herselfhome- less in New York City. The film portrays her gradual deterioration as she exists on the streets, inter- mingling wifh outcasts of society. Along the way she encounters a shell-shocked Vietnam veteran, Nick (Richard Edson); a nihilis- tic East Villager, Tom (Nick Zedd); and a sympathetic good samaritan, Paul (Richard Hell). Lisa's odyssey begins when her aunt, with whom she's lived briefly, dies suddenly. The build- ing superintendent (Rockets Reglare) tells Lisa of her aunt's death. The \super\ then rapes the bereaved Lisa and evicts her from the Lower East Side apartment. Unemployed and robbed of her belongings on the street, Lisa quickly uses up the little money she has. Sinking into despair, she meets a homeless, shell~shocked Vietnam vet, Nick, and a relation- ship between the two develops as they spend their days and nights around Tompkins Square Park. Following a fight with a drunken Nick, Lisa is befriended by a nihilistic East Villager, Tom. who takes Lisa to his apartment. They cohabitate peacefully until Lisa learns from a TV new broad- cast that Tompkins Square Park has been cleared ofthe homeless. She hastily departs in search of · Nick. On the street, she is acci- dentally run down by two women on a motorcycle, and though bleeding from a head wound, she feebly goes to a party with them. There, ht host Paul, feels sony for her and offers help, which she later accepts. Seriously injured, Lisa becomes dazed, near de- lirium, she asks the kindly Paul to take her to the Statue of Lib- erty (where she had dreamed of going with Nick). In the mean- time, Nick has been searching for Lisa. Paul and Lisa make the feny trip to Liberal Island. Nick, through work on the street, dis- covers where she has gone and travels there, too. He rushes to Lisa's side, as she reaches her fi- nal destination. The film stars Rachel Amodeo who makes her feature film de- but in What About Me. She has co-produced eleven animated television commercials. As a mu- sician, she was the drummer for Vacuum Bag and Das Furlines, who appeared on \Entertainment Tonight,\ MTV's \Andy Warhol's 15 Minutes,\ and were featured in People Magazine. Also starring is Richard Edson (Stranger Than Paradise. Pla- toon, Eight Men Out. Ferris Buellf!r 's Day Off. Do The Right Thing. and Super Mario Broth- ers). The film co-stars actor and underground filmmaker Nick Zedd who was featured at a 1989 Museum of Modern Art Retm- spective, and poet/musician Rich- ard Hell, who has appeared in Smithereens and Desperately Seeking Susan. Also featured is beat poet Gregory Corso, who ap- peared in Godfather III. What About Me was filmed in black and white and shot on location in the Lower East Side and Tompkins Square Park. It also inc! udes footage of the homeless shantytown that existed in the park from 1989 through 1990. The film is eight-seven minutes long, and features music by Johnny Thunders. The admission price is $4, $3 for students. What About Me will be shown at Steamer 10, 500 Western A venue at Madison on April 6, 7, 8 at 6 & 8:30pm. On April 11, it will be shown at the College ofSt Rose, Campus Center, Upper Level, Room I at 8 pm. It will also be shown at Lulu Cafe-Gallery, 288 Lark Street on April 18 & 19, at 6;30 & 9 pm. The final showing will be April 20, at RPI Campus. Darrin Communication Center, Room 324 at 8 pm. For further information call (518)453-1000. ''SELF REFLECTIONS'·' An Exhibition of Student Work \Self-Portraits\ by Julia Lee '96 (Paintings, Drawings, and Photographs) Selected Sculpture Projects Fragmented Pictures and Self-Portraits by Photography Students ...... March 6 - April 14, 1995 k\rts Atrium and Second Floor Photography Gallery The Idol .... Union's Literary Magazine The Idol needs your poems stories and artwork for the spring issue! Please submit your literary work in the box marked THE IDOL near the mailroom. To submit artwork)drawings, sketches, graphics, photographs) please call-Ilona at 3 72-4274 Deadline Monday, April 17th

Page 12 • April6, 1995 • The Concordiensis Ellen Sinopoli Dance Company Features Two Company Premieres Courtesy of Public Relations The Empire Center at the Egg's resident modem dance company, The Ellen Sinopoli Dance Com- pany, is scheduled for two perfor- mances on their home stage in a program featuring two company premieres. Performances are slated for Friday, April?, and Sat- urday, April 8 at 8 pm. premier of\Clusters\, a new work tor six dancers choreographed by Artistic Director Ellen Sinopoli and company dancer Rob Kitsos. It is set to specially commissioned music by composer Joel Chadabe and will be perfonned I i ve by the composer and Benjamin Chadabe. Also premiering will be \AI~ most Irish\ choreographed by Ellen Sinepoli and set to the mu- sic ofCapercaillie, Patrick Street, Altan and DeDannan. A pre-concert discussion will take place at 7 prn each evening in the lobby of the theatre with Artistic Director Ellen Sinopoli and the company's collaborating artists. A~s and Entertainment The company was formed in 1991 and is comprised of seven dancers, Kim Engel, Rob Kitsos, Michelle Reagan, K. Meta Reintsema. Margaret Valyou and three new dancers- TammyEllis- Robinson, Angela Rauter and ap- prentice, Lauren Reznitsky. This concert will mark the company's third annual performance at the Egg. The New York State Coun- cil on the Arts awarded the com- pany a major grant for the real- . ization of these performances. The program will inc I ude the Tickets for each performance are $12 for adults and $8 tor stu- dents and children 12 & under. For further infonnation and res- ervations, contact the Egg Box OITice at (518) 473-1845. \Relay\ Dallcers are Elizabeth Reed and K Meta Reintsema (photograph by Gary Gold courtesy of Empire Cellter atthe Egg) ' '. STOP ALL VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN • STOP ANTI·ABORTION VIOLENCE STOP THE WAR ON POOR WOMEN • STOP THE CONTRACT ON AMERICA Be a .part of the historic RALLY FOR WOMEN'S LIVES! Attend the Young Feminist Summit on Violence. RALLY, APRIL 9 • Washington., D.C. ASSEMBLE: 11 a.m., The Mall RALLY: 12 noon (i) ...... . ·To Volunteer or For Information calliOI/331-0166 The Friends of the Union College Library present \Ford's Theatre Relics: Abraham Lincoln's Possessions and Guests\ a talk by Thomas Mallon Friday, Apri17, 1995 7:30p.m. College Center Auditorium · Union College Campus Thomas Mallon, author and essayist, will speak on a Civil· War topic with Union College connections. Mr. Mallon's most recent novel, Henry and Clara, is the story of Henry and Clara Rathbone, who were with the Lincolns in their box at Ford's Theatre on the infamous night of Apri114, 1865. Henry Rathbone was a graduate of Union in the class of 1857 and his father-in-law/stepfather was Ira Harris, an 1824 Union graduate. On Friday night Thomas Mallon will discuss the contents of Lincoln's pockets the night he was shot and he will also speak about Henry and Clara Rathbone. Copies of Henry and Clara will be· available for sale on the evening of April 7. A reception jn Strauss Lounge will follow the speaker's presentation. This program is open to the public. For further information please call the Library Office at (518) 388-6277.

Personai!Ciassifieds The Concordiensis • April6, 1995 • page 13 Personals· Ifyoucan'tplaybythegame Tam - congrats on med stressfultimes. llove you! Class~fl_eds then get the hell off my school! -D ·- Para 'los caballeros': court! ----------- \El cuerpo es siempre el mismo, y decae; La mente cam hia sin cesar, y se enriquece y perfecciona con los anos. La mente no podria concebir Io que no fuera capaz de realizar.\ -Jose Ma1ti 'SPSJ' y Hasta La Victoria Semper!!!!!!!! -Don Profeta '92 To Jason Marrero, Kim Sanabia and Sandra Perez- Impressive banner! Beautiful banner! Shocking banner! 'The legend shall live for- ·ever! -Francisco To Mike Benson & Jason Marrero- Nice SHPE banner! -Francisco All she does is scream and giggle. I never knew blond hair made such a difference .. Wake me up when it really gets warm outside. ~Does anyone even know if the Schenectady police de- partment has a phone num- ber they can be reached at. Tricia- Hey pen pal, you are falling behind. I'm one up on you. By the way, I am so proud of you. Keep up the progress! I love you! -Liza Interested in joining the Womyns Union? The first meeting of the term will be held on Wed. April 12 in the Womens Center (behind North College) Nicole- Only seventeen days until the party begins. Esther;. Don't think that just because you live in a spiffy apartment you can ditch our chess games. -Eileen To the gang- Thanks for all of your sup- port and confidence. I re- Babs & Amy- ally appreciate everything We are going to miss you so you have done. You are the much in the fall, but prom- best! -DS Quote of the week- Miller- Try to stay out of trouble this weekend! By the way,, do you have any of my COs? · -Diana To the House of David- Thanks for the great time Saturday night. I'm so glad our sexual history is a source of laughter for you. You guys do seem to have a cer- tain animal magnitism. Thanks for the laughs. -the duo Sproket- Thanks for the constant good times and laughs. I'm so glad you came to the con- cert. I loved seeing your shaved head surfing in the crowd. -Dirty Foursome anyone? Make great Christmas money in award winning re- tail shop in New Canaan, Conn. We are now accept- ing applications for Xmas sales help. $8 an hour, 40 hours per week. Please call Ray at .Penny Weights Jewlery Store: (203) 966- 7739. Secure your job to- day! SUMMER JOBS $1 0.25/hr. or commision. Advertising sales. sales ex- perience helpful but not nec- essary. Training provided. Work close to Union. Call Steve Gorman at (800) 865- 9200 for details & applica- tion. Metro Marketing Group · Europe $169 o/w Caribbean/Mexico $189 r/t California $129 To the brothers of Chi Psi- Thanks tor a great Saturday night! ise us you won't lose anyone - (we won't mention any names that could get embarassing). We love you! \Guys my elbows and knees Dave and Heather- if you can beat these prices start your own damn airline. -Liza & Tricia P.S.- The reason this per- sonal is immature is that a) we are looking for the per- fect trash & b) we expect i·nvitations to the Brazillian really hurt!\ I miss you guys so much! Air- Tech Ltd. (212) 219-7000 -the sisters ofTri Delta If you can't play by the rules, then you can't play the game. club dinners. Roomie- you are a constant help to me. You always get me through the chaotic and ~OCHESTERIANS, UNITE AT MCCI~--- (YOVR._ IVMME'R.. COVRSE' RHOVR.CE') l ~ H((\ SVMME.lt. SLSSIOWS llT YOU E.A~ ~~~ ~ 1\.~ W.,IT TMNSFEAAJLL TO YOCJR. <OLL~. ~ 1f·\J f~Jt .of All., H<Cr m.Ut . ··. trRM{~I'f to co\le,~f RM.t 'tH(~rfi't(~f IUI'O{{ titt \t.f.t\ ... ~ ftWUt. 6et ault for {\t...,.r. At MK MCC \IIMMI'l \1'\\ION\ \C'\\ION I \TAlT\ \\A'i 30 \1'\\ION a. \TA-lT\ }liLY IO fOl (OMfUTC' INfOlMA-TI~W., CAU. 1\\100 .... 72.+-\IIMMC'l (71,,) What am I going to do with- out you? I hope this first is- sue isrt't too bad. Thank you so much for all your price- less help. info @aerotech.com Uncensored Truth Open Mic ... now held downstairs jn the Iguana Room, t9.~ ~;-.\~~~'Margarita's 286 Lark St. Albany, NY. Starts 9:00pm For info: 427-0929 or 426- 9757. The Concordiensis is look- ing for staff writers, copy editors and lay out editors. If interested please call Diana at X615 5 or come to CC 303 on Thursday, April 13 at 7:30pm. ake a Free Test Drive If you took the test today, how would you score? Come find out. Take a 2V2~ or 3-hour test, proctored like the real thing . . Receive computer analysis of your test results. Get strategies from Kaplan teachers. LSAT&GRE PRACTICE TESTS Apr. 6 • 6-9PM Social Sci. Rm.014 LSAT STRATEGY SESSION Apr. 13 • 6·7:30PM Social Sci. Rm.014 GRE STRATEGY SESSION Apr. 13 • 7 :30·9PM Social Sci. Rm.014 Don't miss out on this cost-free, risk-free opportunity. Call 388-6176 or 489-0077 to reserve your seat or get class schedules. KAPLAN

Page 14 • April 6, 1995 • The Concordiensis Thursday, 04/06195 9:30a U CALL, CC 409 11 :30a Voice Mail Training, CC 205 11 :30a Baccalaureate Committee Meeting, CC 302 12:00p Spanish Language Table, CC 204 12:00p \Plate Full of Questions\ Peer Facilitators, CC STRAUSS {305) 12:00p Multi Cultural Dinner Sign up, Peer Facilitators Table, CC ATRIUM 12:30p Gennan Language Table, CC 203 3:30p GE Grant Meeting, CC 409 4:00p Bicentennial Steering Committee Meeting, CC 203 4:00p The Idol, CC 410 4:30p International Programs, HUMANITIES 112 4:45p Student Health Committee, CC 205 5:30p Kaplan LSAt/GRE Preparation, SOCIALSCIENCES 014 · 6:00p SHPE Meeting, CC 204 7:30p Latino Heritage Month Meeting, CC 409 7:30p The Calculus Center, BAILEY 203 8:00p Chet's Open, CHET'S lO:OOp All Night Study Room, HH DINING ROOM Friday, 04/07195 9:00a Voice Mail Training, CC 205 IO:OOa Marine Corps Information Table, CC Atrium 10:00a Greek Letters Clothing Sale, Delta. Gamma Table,CC ATRIUM 11 :45a Voice Mail Training, CC 205 12:00p Multi Cultural Dinner Sign up, Peer Facilitators, CC ATRIUM 2:00p Dean of Engineering Meeting, SCIENCE & ENG. NW 114 6:00p Wendy Rolf Dinner, Arts Department, CC 204 6:30p Intervarsity Christian Fellowsh.p, CC MOBH, ( 406) 7:00p Philomathean Society, lffl Mll.ANO LOUNGE 1 O:OOp All Night Study Room, HH DINING ROOM Saturday, 04/08195 Calendar .9:00a 'Accepted Students Day, CC AUDITORIUM, HII DINING ROOM, HH MILANO LOUNGE, AND Iffi OLD CHAPEL I O:OOa Alumni Chemistry Advisory Council Meeting, CC 409 12:30p Special Olyinpics Practice, MEMORIAL FIELDHOUSE 2:00p Arts Dept. Play, \Bare Faced Truths\ CC AUDITORIUM 1 O:OOp All Night Study Room, HH DINING ROOM Sunday, 04/09/95 4:00p Adventurer's Guild, CC 409 6 :30p Phi Iota Alpha, CC 409 7:00p Sunday Religious Service, HH OLD CHAPEL 7:00p Orientation Interviews, CC 203, 204, 205, 302, and CC STRAUSS (305) Monday, 04/10/95 •. ;~;O,Q~. :'~~<;ept,e_d Students Day, CCATRIUM andCCAUDITORIUM 8:00a Accepted Students Day, ARTS BUILDING ATRIUM, In1 DINING ROOM, HH MILANO LOUNGE, HH OLD CHAPEL, and MEMORIAL CHAPEL Accepted Students Day, HUMANITIES 019 11 :OOa 4_:00p 4:30p 4:30p 5:00p 7:00p 7:00p 9:00p College Relations Meeting, HUMANITIES 113 - SEMINAR ROOM International Programs, HUMANITIES 112 Safety Lecture, BUTIERFIELD 204 (ALPS) Affiliates Phone-a-thon, HH DINlNG ROOM Big Brothers/Big Sisters Meeting, CC 410 Orientation Interviews, CC 203, 204, 205, 302, and CC STRAUSS (305) Social Committee Meeting, CC 409 Tuesday, 04/1 U95 8:00a 9:30a 11:00a 11 :OOa 11:30a 12:00p 1:30p 2:00p 3:45p 4:00p 4:30p 4:30p 5:00p 5:30p 6:00p 7:00p 7:30p 8:00p Campus Operations, CC 302 U Call, CC 409 Residence Life Meeting, CC 205 Committee on Teaching, HH MILANO LOUNGE Faculty Soup & Beverage, HH DINING ROOM Japanese Table, CC 204 Voice Mail Training, CC 205 Managers' Meeting Dining Services, CC 204 Commencement Committee Meeting, CC 203 Writing Board Meeting, CC 302 Resume Crisis Center, CC 204 International Programs, HUMANITIES 112 Affiliates Phone-a-thon, HH DINING ROOM Delta Psi Delta Meeting, CC 203 Multi Cultural Dinner, lffi Old Chapel Portuguese/Brazilian Club, CC MOB D.. ( 406) The Calculus Center, BAILEY 203 Here's to U Meeting, CC 302 Wednesday, 04/12/95 8:00a Campus Operations, CC 302 9:30a U Call, CC 409 12:00p Senior Class Gift Program Meeting, CC MOBll.. (406) 12:00p Finance Office Meeting, CC 203 12:15p Portuguese Table, CC 204 3 :30p NCUR Staffing Committee, CC 205 4:30p International Programs, HUMANITIES 112 5 :OOp Meditation Group, CC 302 6:00p A.O.P. Tutoring Session, SOCIAL SCIENCES 010 and014 7 :OOp Safety Lecture, BUTTERFIELD 204 (ALPS) 7 :OOp Spanish Film Series, HUMANITIES 019 7:30p Theme Houses Information Sessim1, SOCIAL SCIENCES 104 7:30p The Calculus Center, B.All.,EY 203 8:00p Chet's Open, CHET'S 1 O:OOp All Night Study Room, HH DINING ROOM

Sports Baseball Pulls Out o·ne of Four by Jaso._ Starr Sports Editor Union baseball has nowhere to go but up. The Dutchmen are coming off a series oflosing sea- sons that has taken its toll on the spirit of Dutchmen baseball. The upperclassmen on this years squad have seen it all and at this point may be slightly jaded. Head coach Gary Reynolds has a_lso seen it all and he hopes that the youth and enthusiasm of his freshman can boost the attitude of the team as a whole. the past. That is one thing that the new class has brought. The team average is a more than re- spectable .334. However, their opponents are hitting .348. Therein lies the main problem with this team. There has been little to no improvement on the defensive side of the ball. Field- ing continues to be a problem and the pitching rotation has lost some of last years starters to in- juries. So it seems that this team can score enough to win, it'sjust a matter of keeping their opponent's scores on the correct side of about five. I. These runs were not the re- sult of errors, \They were just hitting us\ said Jeremy Pflaum, a freshman outfielder for the Dutchmen. Union had better I uck against Clarckson on Saturday. The two schools split the doubleheader, Clarckson took the first 8-4 and Union Won the second 10-1. The Dutchmen bats reaJ.Iy shone this day. There were fifteen team hits in the winning effort. Union Baseball now stands at 3-lO. Most of these gameswere played in Ft. Meyers Fla. over break where the team went 2-7. Coach Reynolds has no illusions about this team. He knows as do most of his players that this squad will be lucky to pull out a winning season. But if the bats stay hot and a couple ofpitchers step up and have good outings, they should be ableto beat some weak teams and scrape a few upsets. One thing this years squad has plenty ofis freshmen. In fact over half the team is in their first year of intercollegiate play. This pro- gram definitely needed new blood. Thesefirstyearkidscome to a team that has been down for awhile~ However, they have this opportunitytorejuvenate Union's baseball program. This years team is much better at the plate better than teams of Over the weekend, the Dutch- men let up an average of about seven runs per game including one fifteen run atrocity to a strong St. Lawrence team. Twelve of those fifteen runs were surren- dered in the first inning. This was one of three losses that oc- curred this weekend. The second came in the Jatter half of the St. Lawrence double header; score 5- Men's Rugby Team Has Winning Weekend by Mike Gifford Contributing Writer The Union College Rugby Club, adorning its impressive new uniforms with the dreaded \crest of death, on the 1 eft chest, circa 1896, got medieval on both Hamilton's and RPI's asses this weekend under the adult su- pervision of coachesTom Milner and \Skip\ Wilcox, as well as the impressive performances of some new as well as veteran players in a three game series. The first\ A\ game was beget under favorable skies and chilly conditions. All of the wind- burned faces watched on as Union's own Seth \I STILL don't have a nickname\ Brown barreled through the opposing I ine, evading the enemy from all sides, to score the first try. He followed it up later in the game with an unmatched display of pure lower-extremity power as he blasted a field goal through the uprights, showing his amaz- ing f6ot-to-eye coordination. The next rugger to grace the try zone was the wily Andrew Flyin' Frisbie, who's awe-pro- voking power and uncanny lack of fear managed to score him not one but two tries and a field goal to boot, adding to Union's domi- nation on Library Field. Jim \go ahead and tell me I look ~tuP.i~ .. in purple shorts\ Kochan, with his Dodge Truck qualities, also scored a try, as well as Chris \I should have been a stripper\ Bangs, both leaving carnage in their wake of leveling destruc- tion. The final score was 30-22, Union. Next was the Killer B game, in which they performed with great vengeance and furious an- ger, defeating their opponents 5- 0 in a romp sought with blood, sweat, and plenty of rookies. The newcomers, such as Myles \touch the hall down where?\ Kellam, Adam \Isn't he supposed to get up after I hit him?\ Spitzer, and Mark \I think his neck is broken\ Seife, perfonned extremely well in their first games. Both Rick \Natural Born Killer\ Scharf and Brian ''Stop calling me Malibu\ Field showed their brass as they were not afraid to hit the compe- tition head on, both with impres- sive pall-handling skills. How- ever, it was Kevin Puppe who came out of retirement to score the only goal of the game, in a collective effort from Alex \Screw the Corps, I'm growing my .hair ouCDouvilk · lnthe last game of the day, th~· \A-2\ game, after two tiring halves, Seth Brown once again pulled himself up by his boot- straps and managed to put it through the uprights once again to defeat Hamilton 3-0. with ex- cellent defensive maneuvers by George \I stand on guard for thee\ Bazos, and newcomer Will Riggs, who both had the unique ability to run through three or four opponents at a time, as well as fiB out their shorts fairly nicely. The Union College Men's Rugby Team is offto a rollicking start, and are beginning to be- come a cohesive unit, capable of laying a few mushroom clouds on the opposing teams throughout the season. Our next homegame is in a few weeks, so be sure to come out to watch it. It should be wanner, and hell, maybe you 'II even get an autographed ball. Lax Wins Again Women's Lacrosse rolled over Wells College this Saturday 14 ~4. They are now the only remaining undefeated team at Union · with a record of 3 - 0. Page 15 • April6, 1995. The Concordiensis We need writers! Please, write for Concordy Sports. Contact Jason or Ken atx 5665

.. ... April 6, 1995 PAGE16 Track Opens Outdoor Season with Loss to RPI by Mike Leding Contributing Writer This past weekend at Bailey Field the Union College Track and Field teams competed against RPI in a dual meet,and RPI won both the men's and women's. However, Union came away with many noteworthy accomplish- ments. This was the first meet of the outdoor season, and a chance for a few runners to sec where they were and for some to shed some of their rust The top three rlaceJ ai thts meet for rollltS The o.;cllring fr1r .the'' omen 11a;., :-,t;trtcd h1 l tmb SL'\ llHILII irt tilL· . . SOOO meters. where Linda ran a time of20 I 0 to place first Kelly .Jamieson and i\rny llitz placed s1xond and thtrd respect!\ el\ 111 the 1.\1)( I IT1L'tCfS 111 !i!1ll':-, uf) ~() and n n !leather Rock finished sec om! in the .Ia vdin \\ ith a tllfll\1 of ~A RO meters Nadine Filosi continued to tear up the track as she did in indoor hy placing first in the I 00 meter High Hurdles with a time of 16 7s She also fin- ished first in the 200 meters in a time of 29 Os. second in the I 00 meters in 13. 9s, and second in the long jump with a leap of 4 40 meters. In the 400 meters Tamara Saukin placed second running a time of 1·12, Tamara also won the long jump with a distance of 4.51 meters, and first in the triple jump with a leap of 9.56 meters. hi the shot put.Julie Firman placed third with a throw of 9.36 meters. Kelly Jamieson came back to grab second in the 400 lntennediate Hurdles in a time of I :23.9. Linda Seyrrn:mr added some more distance scor- ing with a second in the 3000 meters with a time of ll :47.2. Dawn Landry rounded out the scoring with a third in the triple jump with a distance of 9.12 meters. For the men the scoring was started by Seth Rudin, who placed second in the 1500 meters with a time of 4:20. In the long jump Mike Martin placed second with a leap of 4.69 meters. Nolan Farns placed fi.rst in the high )ump clearing the har at 6 feet Matt Johnson won the Javelin 11 ith.a t!mm of.'i4 .-.:u tJH.:tcrs. 1(>1- /u\\ cJ b\ 1\ tell Pulver \\ h(> fin- ished third with a distance of 48 22 meters. .Scott Corley placeJ third in !he II 0 mctcrhtgh hurdles in 17 4s and second 111 the 4 00 m ctcr i ntc:r 111 cd 1 ate hurJiestnatimcof631s Mtkc l.cding pi<Kcd second mthc 400 nH:tets in a time of 52 5s. Rtl:h Pul vcr won the shot put vvith a thro11 of 14 70 meters, Paul Telesco finished third in the shot with a throw of 11.32 meters. Nick Conway used his usual kick at the end to win the 800 meters in 2 02. 3. In the triple jump Mike Martin finished first with a leap of II 48 meters. In the hammer Jon Gainor placed third with a throw of 39.76 meters. In t:he 5000 meters Dave Kunselman placed third in a time of 17: I 0. 9. Rich Pulver ended the scoring by winning the discus with a throw of43.36 meters. Next week the teams travel to Hamilton to compete in their in- vitational, so good luck and keep up the hard work. A Union long-jumper awaits landing as two officials look on. Union lost to RPI on St1turday in their first meeJ_ofthe season. (Photo by Laurel Ruma, exclm.'ively for The Concordiensis) Dutchmen Sports This Week Opponent Score Record Baseball Softball St. Lawrence 15-3 5-1 Utica L 7- 1 L 12-6 3. 10 9. 3 w w Women's Lacrosse Wells 14-4 w 3·0 Men's Women's Men's Lacrosse Track Track .. Oswego Rennsselear Rennsselear 15- 12 w Loss Loss 2. 1 0. 1 . 0. 1 I ;I

.. ~ ~nnrnr t.ensts The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Celebrating Our Bicentennial Volume CXXV, Number XVIII Schenectady, New York April 13, 1995 Students Take A Stand Against Administrators Independents and Greeks band together to provi! to the administration that they are united in their cause infro.ntofLibrary Plaza, (photo byLaurel Rumajor TC) ·union Community Unites by Omar AI-Khalidi Contributing Writer Greek and independent stu- dents gathered outside of the Col- legeCenter.onMonday, AprillO to prote~t the Administration's executive decision of implement- ing a policy· that forces all stu- dents who live ()n campus to en- roll in a col1ege op~rated meal plan. Led by Steven Lapinski, President of the Inter-Fraternity Council, the students marched from the College Center, to the NottMemorial, to Old Chapel, to Schaffer Library, and then back to the College Center. While marching, flyers were distributed, signs were held high, and chants such as '\those who pay should have a say\ and \what the Hull is going on\ were reiterated; At every location, students were given the opportunity to deliver a speech or merely voice their opinions pertaining to the situa- tion. tion continues to make decisions without providing those who they affect with adequate time or op- portunity to deliver any feedback. This student even issued ames- sage to prospective students by explaining that Union wants strong, opinionated students who do not understand what apathy is. Another student feels that the ser- vices provided by Union College are leaving its customers\ the stu- dents, dissatisfied. ~en this stu- dent questioned how the Admin- istration would fare if it were to be graded by the students, mem- bers ofthe crowd shouted \F\. choosing Union. The point of this protest was to openly convey the concerns ofstudents to the entire campus community on a day in which a large number of students, faculty, and prospe-ctive students were walking around on campus. It was an effort to show that Union students have an active voice and are not passive.\ Lapinski explained that '\many students as well as members of the faculty and staff are concerned about the process by which deci- sion making occurs at Union. Policychangesoccurwithoutstu- dent consultation and despite their opposition.\ The proposal to implement a mandatory meal plan for all students residing on cam- pus was supposedly explained by the administration to a few, select group of students. These students were supposedly instructed not to inform the rest of the student body. It is clear that the Admin- istration purposely excluded the students who would be directly affected by the decision. Steve Lapinski, JFC President, leads protest, (phl)to by Laurel Ruma) Based on what students had to say, the objective of protesting the change in policy was to show that the students at Union are notapa,. thetic and that they have an ac- tive voice wheti it comesto issues affecting their experience of col- lege life. Specifically, one stu- dent expressed his fear ofthe fu- ture at Union if the Administta- Inside: Concerned about health, one student informed the crowd of how people with nutritional re- strictions are not adequately pro- vided for by the college dining services based on a personal ex- perience. A freshman expressed feelings of betrayal, saying that as a prospective student, she was told that students at Union have a voice and now she is afraid of being manipulated. Finally, the crowd was informed by a senior that President Hull, based on what he said at a recent student forurri. meeting, believes Union College students lack unity and schoo 1 spirit. In an interview with Lapinski after the protest, he said that \the point of this protest was not to deter prospective students from News ........... 2.-4 World News .•.. 5 OP/ED .....•.. 6-8 At the moment, the largest area of concern to students lies in the dining services. This is due to the fact that many changes, such as Validine and privatization, have occurred in a relatively short pe- riod of time without the consent of the student body. Also, solv- ing budgetary problems by revok- ing student privileges has been a recurring theme. Economically explaining the details of this policy change, Lapinski said that \when ~~ked why it would be advantageous to institute a man- datory meal plan, President Hull. stated that the'school would re- ceive an additional $250 net profit from every new studentenrolled in a meal plan. This is because Marriott Corporation can lower the actual cost to provide for each student while the College main- tains its exorbitant prices. Thus, this pressures Marriott to make profit for the college.\ This be- ing the case, it is feasible toques- tion whether or not quality will be sacrificed. This attempt to raise the revenue of the college will effectively close Greek kitch- ens because ten meal·s per week in a fraternity/sorority is approxi- mately $400-$500 whereas the College's minimum seven meals per week costs $650. Intentional or not, the loss of fraternity/sorority kitchens wi11 have a serious impact on the Business .......... 9 A&E ....... 14-16 NCUR ..... I 0-11 Personals .... 17 Features ..•.. , .... J 2 Greek system at Union that does not seem to concern the Admin- istration. The Greek system is comprised of nearly 400 students so it is fair to say that the Admin- istration is not concerned with the future experiences of these stu- dents. Lapinski feels that \with the pressures of completing school work, difficult schedules, and daily activities, most Greek organizations count on the time spent at meals to strengthen the bonds within their organizations and to get to know new mem- bers.\ Even after some of the Greek organizations passed a scrutinizing review by the Student Affairs Council and proved to the College that they deserved their privileges, there has been an apa- thetic re~ponse by Administration to the demise of Greek kitchens. The Greeks are losing another privilege while they are still ex- pected to uphold a high level of service and leadership. The pro- cess by which this decision was made, if repeated for future privi- Sports ..... 18-20

Union College Campus Safety Report 7:.15 AM 11:45 AM 9:55AM 1:00PM 4:38PM 8:58 PM 11:24 PM Alexander Lane Fox House Chi Psi West College Webster Davidson North Sigma Phi WEDNESDAY. APRIL 5, 1995: 12:14 AM Delta Phi 11 55 AM College Center Lot 2:56PM 4:36PM 810 PM 11 :OOPM North Lane Campus Oper, Hickok House Campus Grounds THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 1995: 12:20 AM Delta Phi 1:50AM 2:00PM 2:34AM 2:46AM 4:25AM Davidson area Kapp;1 Sigma Achilles Rink <;:ampus Oper, Lot Bailey Hall THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 1995: 5:30 AM South Lane area 9:45AM S&E 7:10PM Becker Circle 10'45 PM Chi Psi ERIDAY,·APRI·L 7. 1995: 3:16 AM North Terrace 4·20 AM 8:20AM Hygiene Davidson Quad S&E SATURDAY. APRIL 8, 1995: 12:09 AM AD Phi 1:00AM 1:14AM 5:20AM 6:53AM 12:4~ PM 9:34PM 11·40 PM Fox House Edwards House South College Smith House. Fox'P.avidson Lot Fox!Davidson Lot - \Hick area Smith House SUNDAY. APRIL 9, 1995: I :44 AM Raymond North 3:20AM 5:00AM Campus Oper. Lot North Entry Road SUNDAY, APRIL 9, 1995: 12:30 PM West College 6:00PM 6'45PM 8:35PM College Center South College Arts Building MONDAY, APRIL 10, 1'995: 1 :59 AM Raymond South 3:40PM 6·15 PM doors. 6:25PM 7·00 PM 8·32 PM .. .., . South College South College Richmond Lot Potter South Davidson South VANDALISM: Traffic advisory sign knocked down. VANDALISM: Fire dete.ctors d!!maged~b~ement area. FIRE ALARM: Cause4 by rain leaking through roof into smoke detector. Electricians notified. THEFT: Student reports llthletic shoes and .gym bag stolen. Theft occurred sever11l weeks l!.go when items were ·left in corridor. Su$pect ~bserved wearing similar shoes. Investigated. FIRE ALARM: C~used by electrici!lns working on fire panel. V ANDA,LISM: Glass in entry door shattered. VJ.RE ALARM: Fire troubl~:~ alert caused by tripped breaker. FIRE ALARM: Fire trouble alert. Cause undetermi{led-reset. MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT: Property damage accident. College vehicle struck parked car. Owner notified. MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT: Property damage accident Parked ColJege vehicle struck by vehicle backing up. TRESPASS: Visitor acting suspiciously. Identified and advised off campus. SAJ<'.ETY liAZARD: Access to electrical panel room blocked by storage. STUDENT RELATiONS: Escort service problem. Abuse of service for group escorts to ·Off campus social event causing delays in normal escort response. FIRE ALARM: F.ire trouble alert. Unable to detefllline cam;e. Recurrent problem-elect~idarrs advised. THEFT: Vendor alleged theft of food product.\ Unable to confinn report. Complainant unavailable for folfow-up. VANDALISMIIIARASSMENT: Group of suspects harassed members .of the house and broke two windows. Incident occurred' approximately 2:00AM 4/3/95. SPD notified and are investigating. Witness ~provided suspect artd vehicle descriptions. Suspects beiieved to be students. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Ceilipg tiles falling. Believed to be caused by melting of rink ice. MISCHiEVOUS BJi:.IlA VIOR: Bandicapped sjgn removed from mounting. · PROJjERTY :DAMAGE: Tile flooring discolored. Caus-e of discoloration speculative. . · ' ' MISCHIEVOUS BEHAVIOR: Shaving cream and toilet tissue strewn about the area. THEFT: Balance scale stolen from lab. Inddent occurred over the past several weeks, No forced entry. · · , MOTOR VEHIC~E ACCIJ)ENT: Student's car damaged while parked. Other. vehicle left. scene without reporting the incident. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Window broken. Cause undetermined. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Intoxicated student attempting to use the emergency phone. Assisted student back to residence. Conduct Charges filed. FIRE: Minor fire, no damage or injury. Students set rolls of toilet paper on fire. SAFETY HAZARD: Ques'tion regarding storage of chemical~. Chemical Officer advised. FIRE ALARM/LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: False fire alarrn. Pull box intentionally activated Life Safety Violation Notice filed. V A.NDALISM: Glass in entry door shattered. DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Large group of students milling around trying to gain entry to social event. Dean of Students notified and respond\ld to area. VANDALISM: Fire exit signs damaged. · FIRE ALARM/LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Student removed room smoke d~tector .. Life Safety Viol!ltion Notice filed . .V;A.NDALISM: ~itJ.dshield,~n s!ydent's car damaged by beer ~ottle. Pqcurred overnight. ' ' \ ' . VANDALISM: Report of jtlvenHe visitors jumping on cars.' Campus s;uecy · Officers ·appreh~nded fl'le juveniles. Damage to ·hood on student'-s car. SPD notified and .responded; To.ok one juvenile In custody~ .. Student notified. of damage. · -vA.NbA'tiSM:i ·shrubuprocited:· · SECURITY HAZARD: Entry door latch broken. Locksmith notified. VANDALISM/DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Participants at social event became disruptive. Scuffling ensued. Windows broken. One student was struck. SPD responded as a result of an off-campus complaint. Social event was terminated. Conduct Charges to be filed. VANDALISM: Antenna on staff member's car broken. OFF CAMPUS INCIDENT/ROBBERY: Campus Safety Officers observed two visitors loitering in area of North Entry Road. Advised them to leave. Shortly after one of these visitors approached Campus Safety and asked for assistance reporting that she had been robbed at gunpoint by the other. SPD responded to investigate. C1\mpus Safety Officers spotted the male suspect walking off campus and alerted SPD who apprehended the suspect. A handgun was confiscated. .FIRE: Minor appliance fire. No damage except to appliance, no injury. Electric advised for follow-up inspection. VANDALISM: Glass in South entry door shattered. THEFT: Residence Life cleaning supplies stolen from locked storage room. Question raised regarding lock security. Locksmith notified and will check lock mechahislils in the building. THEFT: Dining Service supplies and food taken from room 215, Some items recovered in Nort~ College-second floor area. FIRE ALARM/LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Fire alarrn caused 'by damage to fire detector. Damage occurred when decorations ·that were attached to the detector were being, removed. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. THEFT: Student's room key .stolen. Lock core ch:10ged. MISCHIEVOUS BEHAVIOR: Shaving cream sprayed in .lounge and on PARI<;ING VIOLATION: Unregistered vehicle. Possibly switched plates. Checking registration and ownership. ANIMAL: Violation of residence hall policy regarding housing of pets. ANIMAL: yiolation of residence hall policy regarding housing of pets. /

I f •. Campus News. The Concordiensis • Aprill3, 1995 • Page 3 Marriott Food Services Experiences Growing Pains by David Levine Editor-in-Chief Emeritus Changes in management al- most inevitably lead to periods of turbulence within organizations. During its first six months in the management role .of Union Col- legeDining Services, the Marriott Corporation has faced disgruntled workers, Union College's ever- changing financial demands, and a series of problems with New York State health inspections. In January, a New York State health inspector found a flat of refrigerated eggs that were lo- cated above other products. The State mandates that shell eggs must be located on the bottom shelf. This infraction was noted by the inspector. Aaditionally, Dutch Hollow was cited for hav- ing dented cal'ls. According to Steve Pearse, Di- rector of Dining Services, the Department of Health sent an in,. spector back to Dutch Hollow 30 days later. In addition to finding another dented can of tlma fish, the inspector noted that the tem- peratures of ce.rtain deli foods and salads were above the 48 dt!gree state imposed maximum. \We had mechanical problems with the deli machine and the salad bar, and we needed new fans to increase the circulation .in the machines,\ Pearse ex;plained. Whenever the temperature of high protein foods exceeds 48 degrees, there is the possibiHty of bacterialgrowth. This growth can lead to \potentiaUy hazardous foods~\ according to Pearse. The workers and managers have all been instructed to main- tain certain minimum health stan- dards, and Pearse insists that \some steps should have been taken in the interim to prevent Dutch's second violation.\ As a result of the infractions, the Col- lege was fined by the Department ofHealth an undisclosed amount of money. The repeated violations, in conjunction with repeated \per- formance problems\ led to the dismissal ofDutch Hollow's day- time manager. According to Pearse, \The Board of Health situation was only a contributing factor with regards to, releasing These problems a,re by no means the only difficulties Marriott has encountered during its brief stint at Union. In an attempt to cut costs •.. employees have been subjected to a series of schedule changes during the past several months, according to Pearse. the manager.\ Earlier in the year, a State in- spection revealed problems with a whole roasted turkey in Upperclass Dining hall. Pearse explains, \There was a concern on the part of the inspector, we addressed the concern, and no fine was levied.\ These problems are by no means the only difficulties Marriott has encmmtered during its brief stint at Union. In an at- tempt to cutcosts and better meet the needs ofUnion students, em- ployees have been subjected to a series ofschedule changes during the past several months, accord- ing to Pearse. Employees' sched- ules now revolve around 'focus meals,' with lunch, dinner, late night snack, and breakfast receiv- ing priority in that order. Unfor- tunately, Pearse explains, \Em- ployees' schedules didn't coin- cide with these priorities in the t , pas. Although employees' ·hours were not cut back, consistent with President Hull's promise, sched- ules have changed. Pearse ex- plains, \Employees' hours were changed as long as it didn't ere- ale personal hardships.\ Some employees are having a difficult time adjusting to the new hours and increased work load. Decreased morale, increased job accident rates, and erratic ,hours are among other problems reported by workers anony- mously to The Concordiensis. .Some Dining Services employees report feeling overworked. Some assert that they are expected to do jobs that once belonged to two workers. These workers also re- port being afraid to bring their grievances to the management. \'Some of the problems started with the miscommunication about last summer, and when school started this year,\ Pearse explains. The school year started much later this year, and some Dining Services workers gave up their summer jobs too early, lead- ing to some tension between man- agement and the employees. Union College's Human Rela- tions Committee is intended to address employees' grievances. The Dining Services workers are still under the employment of the College, so they can follow the same procedure for presenting their grievances that has existed for many years. \The current expectations for the managers are different than the expectations.ofthe past. The goal for Dining Services is to be organized, efficient, and consis- tent.\ The administration's plan to require all students living on cam- pus to be apart of the school meal plan will have additional impli- cations for dining services work- ers. Rock N' Roll In The Day Care Center A Celebrator of Life by Emily Battis Contributilzg Writer Since the beginning of fall term, Union College students who have their own bands, have been practicing in the old day care center. The day care cen- ter, originally used as faculty . housing, was turned in to a day care center for Union faculty and staffs children. The participa- tion of Union faculty and staff dwindled and the primary use of the services provided was by the Schenectady community~ there- fore., the college saw no benefit in continuing the services. At the beginning of fall term as many as five bands were prac- ticing in the old day care center; however, at this time only one or two bands practice there. The administration has enter- tained the ideaoftuming the oM dil~pidated building into a home for many of the student activi- ties on campus. However, the money necessary to bring the building up to date is not avail- able at this time. The current arrangement allows anyone who wishes to use the space to re- hearse, as. long as they follow a few extremely reasonable guide- lines. Campus Safety must be notified in order to gain access and to have the building secured upon leaving. The college is also not responsible for any equip- ment left iri the building, and consumption of alcohol and smoking is prohibited in the building as in all other campus buildings. The privilege to prac- tice in the day care center is a temporary situation. When the· funds to renovate the building are obtained, the band~ will have to seeK an alternate location. The Dean of Students Office says they . will do their best to help locate an alternate location when the time comes. by Martin Metz Concordiensis Staff Students may obtain permis- On Thursday April6, the Uni.on sion to use the building by going community was given the unique to the Dean of Students Office on opportunity to hear an account the third floor of the College Cen- . from Zev Ked em, a survivor of ter. Once gaining permission to the Holocaust. Kedem was use the building, it is up to the stu- among one of the 1,100 Jews dents involved to determine and saved by German industrialist dispute practice times among Oscar Schindler and more impor- themselves. When approached tantly, as ProfessorBerkstated in aboutthe current use of the facil- his introduction ofKedem to the ity Dean Alford said, \This is a Union community, \one of the great time in (students') lives to heroes of the 20th Century.\ In write and play music.\ Alford his introduction, Professor Berk himself wishes that more students stated that he was a hero because were using the space because he · he,. along with the many other feels that it is a great opportunity. . Holocaust survivors, endured Alford is not sure that this new what no other human beings opportunity for students will · should have to endure and has transform Schenectady inte the lived to tell about it. next Seattle, but maybe Union Between the ages of 7 and 1 J, can create a thriving music scene. Kedern survived six different concentration camps, including one of the most infamous and destructive of the Nazi death camps, Aushwitz. Kedem fo- cused on what he calls his \alter- nate education\ in the Nazi death camps, which included trying to survive and live for another day. In the camps, that meant learning to suppress or detach oneself from his/her emotions, avoiding the multiple random executions that took place each day, and obtain- ing something to eat for the day, mostly a piece of bread and a bowl of soup. Kedem worked as a brush maker in the camps and he would surround himself with piles of brushes so the Nazi's would see him as a productive worker and would be less I ikely to execute continuedftompage 1 leges, could be injurious to the privileges of the entire student body despite the fact that the Greeks nlonc arc affected now. The. protest, comprised of members from many different him. Kedem feels that the most destructive part of the camps was the dehumanization of prisoners, and the lack of hope that existed. Kedem's source of hope came from being able to \beat the sys- tem\ because he felt that if he could beat the system once, then he would be able to beat it again. In 1945, Kedem knew he had been liberated from the camps when, in his daily struggle for survival, he came into contact with a group of soldiers. One of them was a black soldier who threw him a bar of chocolate. He knew that the allies were liberat- ing the camps, because the Nazi's, due to their racist nature, did not have any black soldiers in their armies. Although liberation was a great relief, Kedem was not out of danger once the camps were liberated because there was no safe place to go, because many hostile German soldiers returning home, and the defeated members of the Third Reich were still an- gry. Luckily, Kedem was taken in by some allied soldiers and eventually sent to an orphanage in England. Kedem went on to study at Oxford, where he received a de- gree in civil engineering. Kedem also helped rebuild the old city of Jerusalem in an attempt to redis- cover his roots. Amazingly, with- out any prior experience, Kedem went on to become a documen- tary film maker. In addition to helping out with and playing a small part in Spielberg's Schindler's List, he has produced several films such as Only in continued on page 4 organizations as well as indepen- dents, was a display of unity and school spirit. This aggregation of students, who feel that the administration is being apathetic to their college cxpcrictKc, \\ ..ts definitely a umted group wtth an active voice.

Page 4 • Aprill3, 1995 • The Concordiensis Campus News .. ~~ In the Footsteps of L,ewis and Clark by Bhavani Meduri Contributing Writer Can you imagine all the adven- tures and experiences to be gained through a cross country boat tr-ip across the UnitedStates? dents were participants in a canoe trip, with President Roger Hull, from Schenectady to New York City last fall, in celebration of the college's bicentennial. This is not the author's first in- teraction with the Union College community. As a Minerva speaker last spring, he gave a speech in Memorial Chapel en- titled \American Journeys\ as a part of Union's \Portmy.ing America\ series. Eli Majlaton, Bookstore Manager, congratulates Senior Neil Furman for winning $200 worth of Bicentennial memorabilia, on February 25, 1995. The winnings were donated by the Union College Bookstore. (photo by Rick Lederer for TC) This is just what William Least Heat-Moon is anticipating as he journeys along the inland water- ways from New York to Oregon. Author of the widely a~claimed nonfiction books Prairie Earth (1992) and Blue .Highways (1983), Heat-Moon hopes to add to his collection of works that portray the various aspects of American Life and American landscape with a book about his experiences on the water. His trip, however, is not a soli- tary journey. Heat-Moon is also interested in learning about how such an experience affects· others. It is for this reason that he has in- vited a select number of Union College students to join him for a stretch ofthe jouf!!ey. These stu- A~ a well respected author, Heat-Moon has won several awards for his .work. In fact, in 1991, both the American Library Association and the Mountain and Plains Booksellers Associa- tion chose Prairie Earth as the best nonfiction book ofthe year. Heat-Moon is tentatively set to come down the Mowhawk River and stop at Lock 7 in Niskayuna on April 24. Union College stu- dents will then accompany him from here to Fultonville, NY. If Heat-Moon's goal is fulfilled, these students may soon discover their names in his latest book. NCUR Rapidly Approaches by Adrian MacLean Concordiensis Staff The ninth annual National Conference on Undergraduate Research (NCUR) will be held at Union the weekend of April 20-22. NCUR is a national academic organization that gathers under- graduate students from all over the country to share and report their research. Science and en- gineering, humanities, and so- cial science are the primary dis- ciplines ofthe researchers. The first NCUR meeting was held at the University of North Carolina at Asheville in 1987. The goal was to bring all stu- dents of higher education to- gether to an annual national con- ference. Overcoming a restric- tive budget and little publicity, the first NCUR drew u.p to 400 student presenters. The structure in the beginning of NCUR'S history was loose. The host was responsible for or- ganizing and appointing a gov- erning board to oversee at each sight. Problems arose because the responsibility rested solely on the shoulders of the host. Legal status changed in 1992 when NCUR was declared a not- for-profitorganization. Today's governing board is composed of 24 unpaid volunteers from continued from page 3 mostly college and university faculty members. The term for this position is three years. To be nominated for the board, a professor must be identified for their excellence and commit- ment to undergraduate research. Minority .participation, site re- cruitment and selection, faculty and administration networking, development, finance and mem- bership are the standing com- mittees of the board. Numbers have increased an- nually and last year's host, Kalamazoo College in Kalamazoo, Michigan, attracted 1800 participants. The con- ference has moved across the continental United States to Western Michigan University, Trinity University (Texas), Cali- fornia Institute of Technology; the University of Minnesota, and the University of Utah. In celebration of the Bicen- tennial year, Union was chosen to host NCUR for the second time in less than a decade. The days are mostly composed of oral sessions, poster sessions, ARTSFEST performances and Plenary Sessions. President Roger Hull will give the wel- coming address on Thursday. Dr. Baruch Blumberg, Mas- ter ofBalliol College at Oxford University and Nobel Prize Lau- reate, will return to Union for a second time this year to give the Holocaust Survivor Recaps Experiences Jerusalem and The' Jerusalem reunion with his Mother who he Quartet. saw another twenty years later Although Ked em has made while she was on her death bed, himself a tremendous success in his speaking about his horrify- the professional world, he has ing experiences as a European still has had a difficult time with Jewish child during the Halo- the healing process from such a caust is an important part of his traumatic event. He says that, healing process. Zev Kedem's along with his reunion with his story is a remarkable story of sister who he hadn't seen in survival and is truly a \Celebra- twenty years, and his emotional tion ofLife\. Concordy Meeting . Thursday @ 7:30 in CC303 opening Plenary Session. Blumberg spoke at the convoca- tion ceremony in February and was awarded the Eliphalet Nott Medal. He is renowned for his studies in Physiology and Medi- cme. Professor Donna Cox, of the School of Art and Design at the University ofiHinois at Urbana- Champaign will speak on Friday's Plenary Session to pre- cede the ARTS FEST dinner, per- formance and exhibits. The din- ner will serve International food located all around campus. Julian Bond, Distinguished AdjunctPro- fessorat American University and Civil Right leader, will give the final Plenary address on Satt.trday. · Presentations will be geared in a tutorial fashion primarily be- cause the audience will be com- posed of non-experts of the field. The object ofNCUR is to present ideas and learn from the research of other undergraduate peers. This is an opportunity to meet ac- claimed international scholars and develop relationships with other researchers in higher edu- cation. Closing ceremonies and a wel- come to NCUR 1996 will be given by a representative from University of North Carolina at Asheville. They will be the hosts of next years conference, the original location ofNCUR. NCURSEEKS STUDENT VOLUNT.EERS Volunteer to help prepare for and host· NCUR during the Week of April17-22. · Volunteer efforts include: Apri/17-19: stuffing .conference pack- ets & registration materials and hang- ing artwQrk for e~hibition. Apri/20-22: preparif:lg the Yulman· The- ater for the~ter and dance presenta- tions, ushering during ARTSFEAST presentations, registering participants, staffing information booths and selling NCUR T-sbirts. To volunteer for a few hours, contact the Office of Special Events. at 6681 by Friday, April 14. Studen.tElections For Academic Year 1995-96: President of Student Forum Junior Trustee VP Administration VP Finance VP Acade1nic VP Campus Life ; * April14: Petitions Available in Student Activities Office, 4th floor Colleg« Center * April21: Petitions due by 5:00pm to the Student Activities Office. * April21: Statements & Pictures due@ Concordy Office by·4:00pm. * Apri127: Debate for President of Student Forum & Junior Trustee. * April28: Elections Will be Held. ] f< a 1\1 F a s b tt tc If g a1 ti A Sl p: dl cc F Cl w th ar th s:: s:: ti~ oJ pl m oJ re 01 fe Q:l V€ a C< w m th to m ht b~ o1 m C( th se T: cl ~ hi tr: vi ar er R1 m m er n€ re se m se m te

World News . The Concordiensis • April13, 1995 • Page 5 Hillary's Excellent Adventure by Marc Foster Concordi~nsis St(l/f In the wake oflast year's health care re- form debacle, Hillary Clinton has adopted a new approach to her role as First Lady. Mrs. Clinton's view of the active role of First Lady has been jettisoned in favor of a more traditional approach. She embarked on a twelve day tour of Southeast Asia late last month that took her to someofthemost primitive parts of the globe. Throughout the trip, Mrs. Clin- ton emphasized the importance of improv- ing the opportunities given to women and girls around the world, often to Muslim audiences circumspect of the Western no- tion of the equality of men and women. At the same time, the First Lady was sen- sitive to Islamic tradition and took such pains to abide by the customs governing dress in which some observers called her cold and insensitive. Though slated as a good-will tour, the First Lady took every opportun,ity to dis- cuss her p~ilosophy about the role that women should play in society-especially the Hindu and Islamic societies of India and Pakistan. Although she acknowledged that she has changed the tone of her mes- sage, Mrs. Clinton asserted that the mes- sage remains intact; the denial of educa- tion and choices to women is a' violation ofhuman rights. While the activism of the past two years is absent, the First Lady re- mains committed to championing the cause ofwomen's rights. Whatever the reason for the about-face regarding her role, Mrs. Clinton objects outright to the unrestrained demands of feminism in the United States. She was quoted in the N_ew York Times:: \If you venture forth in the world, whether you are a man or a woman, you are going to en- counter difficulty. I mean, there is no easy way to live a life of action and commit- ment. And certainly when I think about the women who have been imprisoned, tortured, discouraged, barred from involve- ment in education or professional oppor- tunity-what any of us in America go through is minor., It is a change from what Americans have perceived to be too radical an ap- proach to feminist issues advocated by Mrs. Clinton. Cognizant of Americans' concerns, the First Lady apparently toned downher message so that the rea- sonable expectations of feminism can be achieved without causing undue anxi- ety. The shift in her approach demon- strates the po.wer ofperception in poli- tics. The First Lady will remain able to advance women's issues at home and abroad without offending the sensibili- ties of Americans. Unfortunately, it took the exposure to the fundamentalist so- cieties of Southern Asia before Mrs. Clinton came to this realization. · . · World N.ews. Briefs, . · s;mrce: nieNe11d'ork Times .' ~ ' ~ ' . ' . ' ~ Washington: -Speaker Gingrich rebukes Congress- man TorriceHi for disdosure of · sensitive information about Guatemala. - Speaker Gingrich will leave the Military Gay policy to the Courts. -Democrats fail to Block Republican Tax Bill that would provide $189 bill ion in tax cuts over five years. -The General Accounting Office says the White House is expanding Medicaid coverage. International: -The Terrorist group Hamas while preparing a bomb, mistakenly had it detonate which killed 8 people. A leader in Hamas, Kamal Kheil died. -British Prime Minister Major and President Clinton smooth over their disagreements over Northern Ireland and patch things up. -The Federal Reserve poured almost $1 billion into currency markets in an effort to bolster the dollar, but it had little effect on the markets. -Fierce·fighting reported in Bihac Area ofBosnia, leading to continued fighting and stalled peace efforts. -Iranian police killed 100 people protesting high utility prices. -The Parliament in the Ukraine votesto oust Cabinet in a vote of no confidence. President Leonid Kuchma challenged his country to pursue market reforms. -The United Nations is said to deny equal employment opportunities to ·women. -President Fujimori is set to win Peru's election that is being monitored by the O.A.S., against Perez de Cuellar. Sports News: -After 234 Days, the baseball strike has ended. -The O.J. Simpson trial is \still going and going and going\ with no convic- tion in sight. South East Asia's Black Gold and Islands From the world to the page, events that that occur affect people's lives. Headlines and the articles that support them are reported news that tell how these world events affect the political, economic, and social aspects of the country and the world. So if you have a particular intrest in the stories of today, write for world news for tommorrow. by Matt Sandler WotldNews Editor . Why are the Spratly Islands, a chain of hundreds of islands reefs, atolls, and sand- banks covering about 40,000 square miles of the South China sea, so important to so many countries? Because these islands contain a rich commodity, oil. To control the Spratly islands is to control important sea lanes access. China, the Philippines, Taiwan, Vietnam, Malaysia and Brunei claim different parts of the island chain. Wherever there is oil, warfare is close be- hind. The leaders of these countries are trying to avoid a military clash over the vital islands. The developing crisis started in Febru- ary when China stationed a military pre~­ ence on the contested island, Mischief Reef, also claimed by Philippines' govern- ment. The Filipinos responded by send- ing warships that destroyed Chinese mark- ers and metal structures built on four nearby shoals. China has demanded the release of62 Chinese fishennan from boats seized by the Filipino government last month. Investigators found 80 endangered sea turtles and hundreds of sticks of dyna- · mite aboard these ships. Increasing the tensions in the area is the report by Viet- nam that Taiwan fired on a Vietnamese ship. South East Asian leaders have wor- ried publicly that China would use the Spratlys as forward base to assert their hegemony over the entire South China Sea, \These islands contain a rich commodity, oil •.. wherever there is oil, warfare is close behind, To control the Spratly islands is to control important sea lanes access; thus, with the increasing tensions in the area ... it is a very important concern for the United States .... \ making it in the words of Asian diplomats a \Chinese Lake.\ With the withdrawal of the United States from Subic Bay Na- val Base and Clark Air Force Base in the Philippines, the containing pressure be- tween all these countries has been re- moved, and the security umbrella over the island chain has all but disappeared. This is very important development that concerns the United States of America. Although we no longer have a presence in the Philippines, we are still morally bound to assist in their security. We can not let the Chinese and the Filipinos enter into military conflict. The United States con- siders it in its interest to maintain free ac- cess to sea lane~ that is why we escorted the tankers in the Persian Gulfin 1987 and 1988, and ba~led Iranian mine boats with covert operation teams. Even though his- torical attachments are an impediment to future cooperation, thus leading to war, there must be an alternative approach brought forth. The best way for the United States to maintain peace on a divided and contested island chain, is to use diplomatic jawboning and carrots to direct affairs. Though diplomats have been arguing over the islands' sovereignty for years, the best way to maintain immediate peace is to dis- patch a U.N. observer and peacekeeping force between the potential combatants. The United States' only option is to use dip- lomatic instruments at its disposal; mili- tary force is no option in South East Asia for the United States. The United States should work with and within Japan's he- gemony in trade on the Pacific Rim to in- crease trade 1 inks between all affected countries; thereby making interdependence the necessity that is the dividing line be- tween war over the Spratly Islands.

Page 6 · April 13, 1995 · The Concordiensis '{Uq.e C!lnn.cnrniensis Tile Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Diana Sedita EDITOR Elizabeth DeKoven NEWS EDITOR Alexis Leist FEATURES EDITOR Suzanne Robinson. Leena Mankad ARTS EDITORS Rick Lederer PHOTO EDITOR Stephanie Kuehn COPY EDITOR Ken Berman Ja§on Starr SPORTS EDITORS Mathew Sandler WORLD NEWS EDITOR Lisa Lemoi EXECUTIVE EDITOR Dennis Popeo SCIENCE EDITOR Alex Shapiro LIVING EDITOR Brett Saunders COMPUTER MANAGER Jared Richman CARTOONIST Scott Scullion F ACUL TV ADVISOR Tony LaVecchia OPINIONS EDITOR Alex Johnson BUSINESS EDITOR PHOTOGRAPHERS: Scott Druckemiller, Laurel Ruma, Deborah Proper, Laurie Kirschner. STAFF: Emily Battis, Vinod Dasa, Jeff Ellen, Sarah Ruth Evans, Marc Foster, Nalini Gupta, Mike Leding, Adrian MacLean, Martin Metz, Bharat Navani, Bhavani Meduri, Larry Paska, Billy Shakos, Shveta Srivastava, , Rawson Thurber, Carrie Wheeler, lUisa Wood. OPIED EDITORI.AL . - - Uni-on Students Finally Get Involved Protes,t Proves Students Care Finally. Something was actually organized and followed through by the students of Union College. The protest on April I 0, Accepted Students' Day, was a hug~ success. It was a success because Union students were united and spoke their mind. This protest, organized by the IFC, lit a fire under the Student Forum. At the·\Student Forum meeting, held on April 15, many were eager to prove tharthey are in fact involved . Many students on the Forum readily made suggestions for more campus-wide involvem ment in a variety of areas ... social, as well as administrative. Also, they enthusiastically sorted through topics up for debate by mak- ing definite decisions ... the members did not shirk their duties. One topic that still needs to be addressed however, is h0w to get more information out to the Union College community. All mem- bers appeared to be willing to educate the stu- dents of the topics up for debate and impor- tant decisions that need to be made. The edi- tors of The Concordiensis would be more than happy to help get the information out to the public. All students need is initiative • As students, both ·independent and Greek alike, marched from the Library Plaza to the College Center~ a sense of unity was found. This unity is soll)ething both the administra- tion and students have been striving for. The protest proved that Union College students may not be as apathetic as they seemed. As long as this type ofinvolvement and de- termination continues, students will be able to make a difference. Students, as well as faculty and the Administration, should take advantage of the conununication resources available to them. The Concordiensis is a powerful tool in getting information .out to the campus community, however it is not the only one. Utilize Voice Mail as well as E- mail. Make posters and hang them in the College Center and Residence Halls. There are numerous possible avenues of communi- cation that each student has the abjl.ityto use. Do not just sit back and watch the world go by. Become involved. Get.educated. You must have been in high school, or else you would not be here. Prove to everyone that Union students are not lazy or apathetic. . · . LETTERS - . . . - . . Protest Was Inappropriate The 'Naivete' of Student Forum To the editor: I, along with a majority of the rest of the campus, agree that the means of decision-making con- cerning the new meal plan re- quirements was unprofessional, and did not allow the student body to feel I ike we were important parts of this college. We were failed by the president of Union College and we were failed by our own Student Forum, but appar- ently this is the end of the simi- larities that I have with another I large percentage of the student body. I believe that we all have the right to represent our opinions, and that is why I was furious that no town meetings or Crosstalks were held concerning the decision to .require all students on campus to be on the meal plan, but I think that the rally Monday showed that . a large number of Union students care little for the good of Union College and way too much for their own personal interests. A rally to show support of one's opinions is something that I think should occur more on this campus. Far too often, Union stu- dents are given the bad rap of being apathetic, and having little ability to organize themselves around an issue they feel strongly about. This has not been the case with the dining services issue, and I was thrilled to see the supplementary issue of The Con- cordiensis. and to hear about the Greeks organizing different methods of protests to voice their yet unheard and unasked for opinions concerning this issue, but the rally Monday did not make me feel the same way about my fellow students. The timing for Monday's rally was completely inappropriate, and showed just how little those students cared about the future of Union College or how littl.e thought they had given te exactly who the rally would effect. I agree that President Hull, the rest of the administration, the Board of Trustees, and many members of the student forum need to be told . that we will not accept decisions without representation, but hold- ing a protest on the day that 500 prospective students would be touring the campus and making final decisions about where they would be spending their next four years was not the day to do this. You were not hurting the Presi- dent; you were hurting yourselves and the future of Union College. If all of the prospectives saw such ad is play on a day they knew had been prepared for them, and de- cided not to attend Union as are- continued on page 8 FACULTY RESEARCH DEADLINE The Faculty Development Committee is now soliciting proposals for faculty research and scholarship activities. Applications and guidelines are available in Dean Sorum's Office (S-1 00, S&E). The deadline for submission of proposals is May 11, 1995. Questions concerning the Faculty Research Fund should be directed to Dean Sorum. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $50-85 per day. Transportation should also reflect the best rates available. If your research includes work with human subjects, then the proposals must have preliminary approval from the Human Subjects Research Committee before it can be funded by the Faculty Development Committee. Pres. Dear Editor, I am compelled to write in response to comments in the Special ~upplemental Issue ofthe Concordy, dated March 10. First, I am ~ppalled thattlie Union Administration would deliberately announce uch an outrageous propo,sal as the required meal plan at a time when there would not normally be a student newspaper issue to ~over and address the issue. As an alumnus ('67) and a parent, I applaud your decision to publish the special supplemental issue. However, I must take issue with the remarks of the Student Body President, Nate Coffin. Mr. Coffin is alarmingly naive if he be- ieves that the College Center can become the universal place of ~ommunion he envisions, if it is a mass dining hall for 2000 stu,. ients and the necessary number offactdty. The military tenninoi- Jgy of\mess hall\ is more apt. The very intimacy he seeks is more chievable in the small dining room of a greek house than it ever ~ill be in a \mess hall.\ I recall quite a few occasions during my wears as a Phi Delt at Union when we entertained faculty or college guests. The small group, sit-down dinner offers an opportunity to ruly meet someone. Standing in long lines to grab food and fight \'or table space will n~ver achieve that notable end sought by Mr. toffin. Mr Coffin is correct to be encouraged by the organized outrage paused by the meal plan proposal, but to then say \ok now go back o your boxes and try it, and don't be active any more,\ is contrary o the whole point. Indeed, Union could use some student involve- ment. Killing the greek system (and taking away the daily interac- ion of the meal time will probably do that) is not what he says he eeks. Please, Mr. Coffin, think carefully about what Union will eally be like in 2005 if everyone is homogenized into the dining ~ails ofWest and the College Center. Intimacy and friendship? I don't think so! Finally, MrCoffin says the alumni/ae can not be asked to make ~p operating shortfa1ls. He will find, when he graduates andre- ceives alumni solicitations that he is asked to do just that. Parents, oo, are solicited. If the related commentary by Mr. Lapinski is correct, there is already an alternative plan to make up the short- \all. Perhaps Mr. Coffin should suggest that Union «try it\ instead of the ridiculous plan currently implemented. I applaud Mr. Lapinski and Mr. LaVecchia for their more realistic assessment of his new mandate. I can not see required meal plan participation as a sound business decision for the College, in the long run. Philip W. Haines '67 Vassalboro, Maine . I t !

OP/ED The Concordiensis · April 13, 1995 · Page 7 OPINIONS NO .. LilC!' LikE ' , TitEr '\\~ LE'AGUE!TH£RE'.s No l'li\CF: ••• Protest Proves Unity at Union by Tony La.Vecchia Opinions Editor The move to put fraternities on the mandatory meal plan has caused much debate and contro- versy. Aside from the obvious blow to Greeks and the Greek system, the move raised a larger question for everyone in the stu- dent body. To what c.:Jegree. does the administration c~re about the requests and happiness of the stu- dent body? This issue, and the aqm inistration; s lack of concern for the student body's happiness has actually led to something positive. This Monday when sev- eral hundred Union students gath- ered outside the College Center for a rally/protest we displayed our unity and poweras a group. I find it to be ironic that one of the administration's reasons for implementing the mandatory meal plan is to build school spirit and unity. Indirectly they have caused us to demonstrate that we do in fact have a great deal of group unity and school spirit. Apparently, students are begin- ning to stand up for their rights as consumers,·an issue I have ad- A portion of a speech given at theprotest on Monday, April] 0 I stand h~re before you today as a .campus leader, a concerned student; and a future alumnus of Union College. With the most profound certainty 1 can say that myfouryearsatUnion have been the four best of my life. Union has provided me with one ofthe few eternal gifts, edu- cation. I would like to think I have been able to pay Union back for some of the most memorable experiences any institution has afforded me with my in involve- ment in the Union community as a Orientation Advisor and a Gatekeeper at admissions. I have donated my time and efforts to these organizations in hopes of preserving the Union experience for future generations. Unfortunately though, through- out my four years here I have wit- nessed the decline of a part of university life that is held close to heart to anyone that has had the college experience. I am of course referring to the voice of the students. Union has become a place for an administration that is so far out touch with the students dressed in numerous columns. Many critics, particularly members ofthe administration, will be quick to say that the re- cent outcry is really only an ex- ample'ofGreek unity and not of unity throughout the student body. This simply is not the case. Although proportionately there may have been more Greeks than independents at the rally, independents were also at the rally supporting not the only the rights ofGreeks to maintain their way of life, but also in or- der to preserve their rights and power as students. As students chanted \Those who pay should have a say,\ it was clear that many members of the student body have seized their own internal power. Stu- dents are clearly the mdst im- portant and valuable aspect of this fine institution of ours. ~Y depriving them a feeling of sat- isfaction and a sense of some control the administration is tak- ing the risk of weakening our most valuable resource. Stu- dents have clearly demonstrated that they are not satisfied with the Union College dining plan, or the move to place .Greeks on that it i.s supposed to be serving that st_udent apathy for admin- istrative decisions has become a bonafide major in this fine in- stitution of ours. It is not just the forced finan- cial pl~n ·imposed on alternative housing. It is not.just the man- datory Student Affairs Commit- tee review .of alternative .hous- ing. It is not just the mandatory state inspections of private kitchens on campus conceded to the school last year. It is not just the privatization ofthe food ser- vic.e that in the immortal words of most Union students \sucks.\ It is not just the mandatory meal plan. It is not just the endless array of fines; of red tape, of committees on committees, or even the scathing tuition. \It\ of course is a culmination of all of these complaints and conces- sions made to the school by its students. Our voice is not heard. Union is a place for the students. In the simplest terms we aFe a cus- tomer to which the school pro- vides a service, a service that has left a dissatisfied customer. It would be interesting if Union students were afforded the op- / / it. Today more than ever before, we have witnessed a transformation. It is one thing to whine and complain, an area in which I am actually quite proficient, but it's another thing to take control and do something. By successfully coming together with a common viewpoint and goal we have shown an unwillingness to back down and we have also shown character. After all it would have been a lot easier for a lot of stu- dents to eat lunch; or just hang out in there dorms during the protest, relying on others to get the job done. Fortunately however enough portunity to grade the administration's performance. What grade would they receive? I challenge you to rise above this bureaucratic oppression and use your rights as a student to express your dissatisfaction. Are you happy with the direction Union is taking? Take action, whether it be in the form of a protest, a letter, a meeting with the Dean of Students, a discussion with faculty members, or the signing of a petition. Wake up. to what is going on in this uni- versity, inform yourself and and make an educated decision! We have rights as students here, use them! The time has come for Union students to become involved in controlling theaffairsthat affect them so dearly. President Hull's words are not etched in stone. Do not be so narrow-minded to con- cede our future to a man and an administration that has failed in the most primary of goals, the satisfac- tion of Union students. I urge you to right this wrong for, if not now when? I thank you for your time. Sincerely, Barton W. Weisenfluh '95 Submit all Letters to the Editor on a high density disk to CC 303 by Monday 5:00 -=~--==~ 1';1~=~ ... lJ ---- ~ people had the ·initiative to do something about an issue which will directly affect them for years to come and affect a place they care about for many years after they are gone. I witnessed students making speeches about the importance of Union to them and there disgust at the present situation. I also saw that my peers had taken out of their own personal time and money to print up flyers and make signs about our situation. What really was unfolding before me was a group of people who not only care about themselves, but --~_) / / / the institution in general. Many students spoke of a time a few years ago when the word apa- thetic was often used to describe Union students. I think it is safe to say that those days have ended. No matter what happens with the food service issue. I think Union students have benefited from this event and are closer and stronger as a group because of it. I also think that if we continue to press the issue and don't give up, we will force the administration to change its policy or at least to compromise. THE SOCIOLOGY DEPARTMENT and THE CAREER DEVELOPMENT CENTER present Conversations with Alumni!ae, A Sociology Department· Series SAMANTHA LOBIS, 1993 Sociology I Anthropology will speak on \Life After Union In The Non-Profit Sector\ SAMANTHA WILL TALK ABOUT WORKING IN CULTURAL SURVIVAL AND GOING INTO THE PEACE CORPS Wednesday, Apri/19, 1995 12:00- 12:30 p.m. College Center Room 409 _ (Mobile Lounge) Come Learn about surviving the job market through paid internships in socially responsible work.

11· Page 8 · Apri16, 1995 ·The Concordiensis OPIED LETTERS. Student Forum President Responds to Criticism Consider the following phe- nomena: flying pigs, brief Acad- emy A ward speeches, and uncriticized government. AU share the distinctionofbeing ut- terly impossible. Mr. Levine, I am pleased to discover that not even Union's Student Govern- ment is beyond contempt. And honestly, ·I must admit that it is gratifying to know that some folks out there are trying to keep the Student Forum on its toes. Resting on laurels is a dangerous practice and for that reason, a gen- erous prod now and then, while certainly unsettling, is both nec- essary and functional. Thank you, Mr. Levine for just such a prod. In response to Mr. Levine's characterizations ofthe Forum, I am immediately moved to clarify the focus of his remarks. It is unfortunate that Mr. Levine ne- glects to reserve his criticisms for those immediately involved in the issues that he cites and makes the egregious error of generalizing that all members of student gov- ernment may be typified as ''elit• isf\ and \egotistical.\ As senior class Vice President, I wonder if Mr. Levine realizes that he in- cludes himself in this character~ ization. As the elected President of the Student Forum, I believe that it is my duty to take respon- sibility for any problems that Mr. Levine cites. Thus, in the future, Mr. Levine, I would appreciate it if your remarks are directed to- wards me and not towards those to whom they do not apply. The Forum is comprised of twenty two responsible students whose charge is one of great levity and importance. I will personally de- fend the individual integrity of all Forum members against sl).ch public attacks and will not stand for any slanderous characteriza- tions ofthem in the future. At this point, I will proceed from the personal to the profes- sional which I firmly believe is the appropriate forum for discuss- ing Mr. Levine's concerns. I am primarily concerned with a num- ber of startling inaccuracies and misrepresentations that are dis- cussed at length in Mr. Levine's article. Foremost is his charac- terizati,on of last year's privatizatioA issue. I am struck by Mr. Levine's account of the discussions between students and administration simply because I do not recall his presence at any of the ml!etings that he purports to be intimajely familiar with. And yet, his powers of recollec- tion are uncanny. Mr. Levine, had you been present at those meetings, you would be fully aware of the extent to which the student representatives related student opposition to the pro- posal. Further, you would have noted in your article how the stu- dent representatives fought dili- gently for four specific demands (quality maint~nance, student in- put, price monitoring, and em- I.E.F. DEADLINE ployee satisfaction assessment) and how those four demands were agreed to. However, I note that these details were clearly omitted from your account ofthe proceedings. In regards to the closed door discussions between the Forum and the President with respect to the Greek meal plan issue, I must again take exception to Mr. Levine's analysis. While Mr. Levine contends that the confi- dential nature of those discus- sions left the student body \in the dark until after the administration rendered a decision,'' I find it noteworthy .that the proverbial cat had been let out of the bag even as those discussions were taking place. Within several days of the meeting, most students were in- formed of the situation. I was well aware at the time that the Forum agreed to the closed door session that such an agreement would in no way restrict the even;. tual flow of information to the students. Keep in mind that stu- dents not on the forum had been consulted by the President, and that it was certain that word would get out. The general out- cry that came several days later confirmed my belief. The point here is that the Fo- rum did not hide information from the students. The students were already in command ofrel- evan.t information, so the ~ct of informing them would have been a mere formality. Further; in the The deadline for proposals for the Internal Education Foundation in two categories -- student- initiated research projects and \educationally innovative projects\ is May II, 1995. discussion that did transpire be- tween the President and the Fo- rum, both Greek and Independent members were extremely vocal in enumerating their reservations and concerns about the proposal. Mr. Levine, I beHeveyou were atthat meeting, and can attestto the fact that the Forum hardly \sl curnbed\ to the administration. Rather, the dissenting and assent- ing voices heard at that meeting justly represented the sentiments of the student body. This brings me to a fundamen,. tal Inconsistency in Mr. Levine's reasoning. I discover from read- ing Mr. Levine's article that in the a<;t of voicing my opinion regard- ing. the Greek meal plan issue, I am \expressing my undying sup- port for the administration.\ Re- ally, Mr. Levine. How unfortu- nate that a student cannot carefully and thoughtfully weigh the impli- cations of an issue, arrive at an infol11led opinion, and voice his or her opil}i9n without being ac- cused ofbeingin cahoots with the a~ministration, Does t,bis mean that all stqdents who happen to agree with 1fl.~ · p~opose;lJ. are ex- pressing this \ support?'' Could it possible be that they genuinely believe that the pro- posal is a good idea? Interest- ingly, Mr. Levine, you appear to hold precisely the same opinion that I do .regarding this issue and yet you fail. to.ac}qi).qwledge your . . ,.i_.,. ' •• own «undying support for the ad- ministration.\ . In respect to the issue of repre- sentation, I would be curious to inquire as to whether Mr. Levine believes that the administration would base its entire assessment of student sentiment on the opin- ion of the Student Forum Presi- dent. Such a contention strikes me as thoroughly naive. Yet Mr. Levine is prepared to declare me a poor representative because I have the audacity to express my own opinion. Well, once again Mr. Levine, having the advantage of knowing precisely what I have said. to various administrators, I will attempt to set the r.ecord . straight. Mr. Levine, when.l have been asked by the President and others how students feel about this issue, I have informed them that many stuaents are strongly and vocally opposed oo the Greek meal plan proposal for a variety of 'legitimate rea~ons. When l have been asked about my own opinion, I have .rendered it with the understanding that it is my opinion, and rnine alone. Finally, Mr. Levine, as I have previously mentioned, while I . may take issue with many of your remarks, I value your input and that of all students .. The fact that I disagreewith you .in no way im- plies that your concerns. should have remained unvoiced. To all students, continue to ·be vocal about those issues that concern you. In his article, Mr. Levine only credits me with \half heartedly\ li!Cknowledging that students have the right to protest. Mr. Levine, while I may disagree with you on many .points, in re- gards to this characteriZation, _you are dead wrong. I have, do, and will continue to encourage the student body to express their opinions. . The Student Forum is not per- fect. My response to Mr. Levine's article is not intended to convey any belief that we are faultless. Rather, weare a group cha~g~d ~lth' the. ta'sk: -~fr~p}e~· senting the student body, and try- ing our best to do so. If students have any concerns about student government, they should feel free to discuss them with me or any member of the Forum. Finally, in the future Mr. Levine, I would suggest that in addition to voic- ing your opinions to the entire campus, you might consider dis- cussing them with tlte Student Forum as well. Sincerely, Nate Coffin Student Forum President Proposals for student-initiated research projects must have the written approval of a faculty ProfeSf ----------------- advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be submitted to the Dean's Office (S I 00, Science & Engineering Building) on forms available there. continued from page 6 Similarly, members of the College community who have \educationally innovative\ proposals should submit them to the same office on forms available there. Forms for Faculty Research Projects are also available in the Dean's Office (S I 00). Guidelines with respect to the I.E.F. are available in the Dean's Office. Inquiries about I.E.F., the guidelines, or the proposal deadline should be directed to M::trgaret Dalton, Administrative Assistant to the Dean of Arts & Sciences. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates are normaily limited to $50-85 per day. Transportation costs should also reflect the best rates available. Students who are planning to do interviews must indicate that arrangements have already been made. If your research includes work with human subjects, then the proposal must have preliminary approval from the Human Subjects Research Committee before it can be funded by the Subcouncii on Undergraduate Research. J· suit of this, then we have lost some of the ways that Union College will move back to the academic place of respect it deserves. You are endangering the value of your degree Also, if a smaller than usual class decides to enroll there will be no hope for anything but the same loss of rights that we have seen in the past few years. The reason for the decision to put all on-campus students on the meal plan was financial. If the school loses more money what other privileges will go next. I know that I will be accused by some ofbeing anti-Greek, but this is not the case. I think that your issues are valid and the President and Student Forum need to listen to them, but I know that Monday's rally was not the way to do that. Write letters to the Board of Trustees telling them how you feel about the lack of representation you are getting with President Hull. Ifeverymember'OfaGreek organization angry ab<Jut losing their kitchens, and every student living on campus angry about lack of representation were to write a separate letter explaining why they were angry, questions would be asked. The Board of Trustees is interested in keeping the College running well, and that means keeping students here. If they feel there is any danger of that not happening, and that President Hull or other members of the administration are respon- sible for that happening, new de- cisions will be considered I hope this enthusiasm about issues that concern all of us con- tinues, but I hope students starts considering exactly wh<J their ac- tions will be affecting. Signed, Heather Reynolds '95

Business The Concordiensis •April13, 1995 • Page 9 $ $ $ How T-o Lose A Billion Dollars $ $ $ by Alex Jobnson Business Editor Derivatives have been in the news in the last few months more often than O.J. Okay, almost as much as O.J. You may have heard of the fail- ure of Barings Bank. All it took was a young Brit,. a lot.of cash, and the magic of derivatives. Within· a span of two months, a guy not much older than you or I, ·JostoverONEBILLION DOL- LARS!' Don't feel so bad next time you drop a C-note at Foxwoods. The list of casualties goes on and on: Procter & Gamble lost $157 million last year, Sears, Roebuck Ilk Company took a $237 million hit, and finaHy our friends in the government of Or- ange County, Californiaplunged into bankruptcy through the use of derivatives. It has gotten to the point where the U.S. General Accounting Of- fice has asked for the Federal Government to consider regulat\ ing die trading of derivatives. I have even heard some consumer advocate groups calling for the banning of some types of deriva- tives. From hearing about all the negative effects, it wmdd seem that the outright banning of such securities might not be such a bad idea. However, nothing could be further from the truth. There are horror stories like the ones above. But their misuse is not cause for their elimination: ·When you get rid of all of the anti-derivative rhetoric, financial derivatives can be seen as a tool which allows individuals, com- panies, and even governments to keep prices stable, safely plan far into the future, and absorb cur- rency fluctuations. Archimedes once said: «Give me a large enough lever, a ful- crum and a firm place to stand , and I can move the earth.\ This reasoning is behind the much misunderstood financial deriva- tive. But exactly what is a deriva- tive? Many derivatives are quite complicated, yet at their core is the same basic goal: the re.'-allot- ment of risk. For a relatively small investment, a company can transfer the risk of market fluc- tuations. A derivative is a secu- rity which, as it's name implies, obtains its measure ofvalue from the market price of a secondary' orunderlying source. The under- lying product can consist of any- thing from the price of a stock, to the cummt price in Lira of 1 00 Japanese Yen. One of the sim- plest derivatives is called a eall option. These are contracts give the buyer of the option the right, but not the obligation, to sell the underlying commodity at a set price (called the strike price), before a certain date. This allows the buyer of the option to \lock in\ his prices for the commodity well in advance. If the market turns for the worse, our fore- sighted company will have pro- tected, or hedged, themselves against loss. Koch Brewing· Co. (esteemed producer ofGolden Anniversary beer) uses tons ofatuminum each year fortheir cans.lftheprice of the metal rises substantially, then they would normally be forced to raise prices. For all you Econ- major wannabees, this means lower sales. This is bad for the consumer, i.e. beer costs more, as well as for the company since they now have lower revenue. But it doesn't haveto be that way. With aluminum call options, they have the right to buy the raw material at the lower price. They can exercise the option and keep prices right where'they were. What happens if aluminum prices decline? Then Kochs' lets the options expire without exer- cisingiliem. This means they lose the pric~ they paid for the options. (The 'ptemh,1m' as it is known usually ranges from 2-5% of the price ofthe underlying good). But since the market has declined, it costs less for them to buy alumi- UNION COLLEGE Career Developmmt Center CDC Updates ... • Veritas is accepting resumes for a corporate research position. Complete details of the position are available at the CDC. •Professional's Resource Enhancement, Inc. is seek- ing client development specialists. Resume deadline is April19. Information is available at the CDC. •The New England Center for Autism has cancelled their interview schedule for April. The representative will be contacting students directly. Resume Writing Workshop Thursday 4113 @3:30pm. Kaplan will on campus for a GRE & LSAT strategy ses- sion, 4/13~ SS014@ 6pm. Getting Into Graduate School video, Wed. 4/19 @ 7pm. Stategies for students applying to grad school. ·Paid positions at the Career Development Center for 1995196. Career Assistant Application deadline is Friday, April17!! num. They now have benefited from the lower price; The small loss on the options and the sav- ings from the aluminum purchase have com-bined to give Koch a nice profit. Of course, there is a third scenariQ in which the price of aluminum remains·stable. This merely means they absorb the smaH loss of the option price. In each case the negative effects of a1Ul1linum price fluctuations have been tempered, as was the origi- nal goal. gets clods like Nick Leeson in trouble is the profit motive. In- ·stead of using derivatives to man- age risk, they see profit opportu- nity in the speculation of such se- curities. Many of the recent cor- porate losses have been due to derivatives based ori the level of interest rates. When rates fell sharply last year, many compa- nies were taken aback, as they were counting on continued low rates. lidity of derivatives bas been proven. Used correctly, they can create long term stability, and thereby promote economic growth. In comparison, un- abashed speculation by compa- nies as a way to bolster revenue is not good practice. The compa- nies which have suffered have only themselves to blame. To be sure, the world of derivatives can be very risky. Yet each time a transaction is completed, the vi- tal function of risk management is assured. Different companies need dif- ferent strategies. Some therefore invest in currency derivatives, others in crude oil options. \Vhat According to a 1993 study by Swaps Monitor, an industry newsletter, two thirds of Fortune SOO companies use derivatives as a financial tool. Indeed, the va- . . The Dow Jones Averages . INDUSTRIALS INDUSTRIALS COMPOI\I(:NTS AT&T -1/R Allkd~ignal + 3/4 Alrr•a +3/H .c\!nt'rit•an t-:~-vre.~q + S/~ B•lhl<>h~m :>t('(>l - 7 1~ Boring _:11R C\uterpillar +3iR C\h• -2 1 /2 C\orn·C\oln +2''l,IH Di.<nrv + Jllz l>u P~nl + 17/g E11.<tman Kodak -15/s r:x:xon + 11-1 .. GtmrraJ !oilectrlr + iJH Grnrral Molm\'· -3/H Got'rl·\\\' + z~'s Ill~! +17/N lnt 0 rnational Paper .,:a;4 Md-lonald's + 7/8 Mfrrk + 1 /.J Minnesota Mining _lis J.P. M or.<r•n + I 7 /H f'hilip !\.lurri~ +2 Procit•r & Gambl\ +21/2 ~\\' RO<'hurk -1 1 /8 T'\\\' -1 5 ii1 l- nion Carbide _l/2 l~nlll'd Technologies Unch. N. D '1\;~(in~:hou.... + 1/n . ov ec Wooli\'Orth Unch. Jan. Feb Mar Apr 4200 4150 4100 4050 4000 3950 3900 3850 3800 3750 3700 3650 Business .. Wrap--Up In Brief ~Distiller Seagram Corp. sold on Friday their 24% stake in DuPont for a hefty $8.8 billion. Almost immediately, 39 year-old Seagram CEO Edgar Bnmfman Jr. used the cash to buy 80% of MCA. The market trashed the idea sending Seagram stock down 16.5%. ~Thinking of buying a Macintosh com- puter? Apple Computer has licensed the op- erating system to independent manufactur- ers arqund the world .. By fall, clones will be available for the Power PC platform at prices I 0-20% less than original Apple products. ~W.R. Grace ChiefExecutiveJ.P. Bolduc will depart the company after complaints of sexual harassment were levied against him by f01mer employees. The 55 year-old ex- ecutive is scheduled to receive a severance package giving him a $20 mill ion one-time payment and an annual $850,000 pension. ~New York City smokers are now forbid- den from lighting up in restaurants around the Big Apple. The law which went into ef- fect on Monday, is causing both smokers and eatery owners alike to become agitated. Res- taurants must construct a separate room for smokers or else outlaw the enjoyment of ciga- rettes. ~United States Post Offices are phasing in the use of credit cards as a payment method. It is hoped that the reduction of cash in Post Offices will deter armed robberies, such as the one in New Jersey last month in which three employees were killed. The Markets Stocks: ~This past week the U.S. stock markets were up significantly once again. In the week ended April 7th, there were 248 new highs on the New York Stock Exchange. In fact since the begin- ning of the year, the Dow Jones Industrial Av- erage is up a whopping 9.1 %. The economy it- selfis growing by leaps and bounds. The an- nual GDP was revised last Friday to show a 5.1% annual growth rate; the highest since 1984. There is a growing fear that this raging economy will end with a sharp decline. Says Larry Rice, Chief market strategist at Josepthal, Lyon & Ross,\ We've gotten very extended and we're very late in the cycle, so people are getting more nervous.\ What Larry failed to note was that the recent plunge of the Dollar is making U.S. securities much more affordable for foreign in- vestors. The trend will most likely continue as the dollar falls further. Bonds: ~ 30-Year Treasury Bond Yield: 7.39%. Down .04%. Currency: ~The U.S. Dollar has become the whipping post of the major currencies. It buys less Ger- man Deutschmarks, Swiss Francs, and Japa- nese Yen than at almost any time since World War Two. A dollar now buys only 83.6 Yen. Ayearagoitbought 105.4 Yen. Source: Wall Street Journal, Barron's

5 at . . ( DIOD Join NCUR and Celebrate Undergraduate Scholarly Activities- All classes!wil11 The National Conferences on Undergraduate Research (N CUR) wilJ bring students from across tbe· eountry to our campus to present their scholarly activities. The NCUR committees ARTSFEAST Friday evening the focus will be on student presentations in the visual and performing arts during ARTSFEAST. ARTSFEAST wil'l feature theater and dance troupes, compositions for brass quintet, vocal and instnunental pieces, visual arts exhibits and an international film festi- val. See the complete ARTSFEAST schedule in this issue of the Concordiensis. ARTSFEAST International Food Feast ARTSFEAST also offers an international food feast The rr Cajun cuisine. Students can register for the feast by contactit 6050. Admission to the food feast will be at a reduced rate attendees. You can use your Validine card or meal plan. All Shuttle Buses ,vm 11ick-up/drop·offin front.ofthe Memorial Fieldhouse. ,.b. I a.tio1 Confert 7:30am - 6:00pm 8:00 am - 10:00 prn 9:00am-4:00pm 9:00- 11:45 am 9:00- 11:30 am II :45 am - 1: 15 pm 12:15- 1:15pm 12:15-1:15pm 1:30 - 2:..J5 pm 3:00- 5:30pm 3:00-5:30 pm 3:00-5:30 pm 5:30 - 7:30pm Thursday, April2·0 Registration, Memorial Fieldhouse Exhibit of Undergraduate Scholarly Acti\'ity fvorn Prominent Individuals. Main Floor of Schaffer Library Faculty Lounge, Hale House Dining Room Oral Session 1, Arts Building, Humanities Building. Science & Engineering Complex North Wing, Social Sciences Building Undergraduate Research NehJ•ork (URN) Session 1, College Center Auditorium; Submitted papers describing undergraduate research issues by faculty and administrators Box Lunch, Memorial Fieldhouse Special URN Session, SS016 Ho·w to Apply to Graduate School ,,,,,,,,,,,;,::;:;:::;:::;:::::::::;:;:,.. panel of students and · · · ·' · ~;:;~menamg graduate school: tmM~¥.\m~Y·~so.ta and John Knecht, Lunches.for Faculty ·ho would like to meet box lunch to the ~Anities·- Col!lege •, Oral Session · Complex: Nerth · PosterSession 1. Social Sciences & Engineering & \'-'\l;, ........ ,~ Special URN ;)es:smn. Models of unlller:lfra.am organized by Phyllis Betts, Optional Dinner. College '\\'\\''\\\' Hall ~lrifllif!j!il~!:!:i!~[li~~~t:;}r''\r': URN Session 2, College Center \ri•·•rn· Submitted papers describing 8:00- 10:00 prn 10:00 pm- midnight 7:30am-6:00pm 8:00am - 10:00 pm 9:00 am - 4:00 pm 9:00- 11:45 am 9:00 - 11 :..J5 am 9:00-11:45 am 11:45 am-1:15pm 12:15- 1:15pm Page 10 • Aa1ril U, 1995 ~ The Concordiensis undergraduate research issues hy .~-·... and administrators Poster Session 2, Achilles Rink Ice Cream Social, Memorial Fieldhouse Friday, April21 Registration, Memorial Fieldhouse Exhibit of Undergraduate Scholarly Activity from Prominent Individuals. Main Floor of Schaffer Library Faculty Lounge, Hale House Dining Room Oral Session 3, Arts Building. Humanities Building, Science & Engineering Complex North Wing, Social Sciences Building Poster Session 3, Achilles. Rink URN Session 3, College Center Auditorium; Submitted papers describing ;tndergraduate research issues by faculty and administrators Box Lunch, Memorial Fieldhouse Special Topic Discussions . We invite you to take your box lunch to the any of the special topic discussions in the indicated locations: What is the Undergraduate Researeh Network? .. Humanities 019 Encouraging Teaching· of Hands-on Science Activities in Elementary · Schools - Old Chapel Professor Charles Scaifo, Union College ~---·- --··-- . ·. _i_.'_'·.'.'_;_~~-~·.•.i . ' .· ,·,· ·,· .... ·.- ... ,•; · .. : ;.: :~~ : ~-:·tt : . ~·· lor Undergra Reseal

e - ril lasses: will be cancelled on Thursday (April20) and Friday (April21) during NCUR. NCUR committees have tried to ma'<imizethe opportunities for TJnien- stilcl.ent participation in NCUR activities. All students are welcome to attend m:al, poster, and plenary sessions. feast. The men~ features Asian~ Jtalian and feast by contacting the Dining Services Office at at a reduced rate from that paid by conference meal plan. NCUR 95 T -Shirts Get your official NCUR 95 T -shirt through the Office of Special Events. The grey T -shirts with the NCUR 95 logo in red are being offered to students for $8.00 (sold during the conference for $10.00). arch 1:30- .J:OO pm 1:30- . .J.:QO pm I :30 - .J:OO pm .J:l5- 5:15pm 5: 30 - ~!=1::·:;: ·:' ::;:;;;,;:;:::.::;;:: 5:30-8:00 pm ,.,:.,, ,,,,,,,,,,,,,.,, 5:30- 8:00pm 5:30- 9:00pm 8:00 - 9:00pm 8:00 am - 12:00 9:00 am,,-, 11:00 9:00- 11:00 am 9:00- 1-Jtf>O,am 9:00 - 11:00 am :. I2:.J5 -2:oopm 1:15pm- Professor Scaife's work was profiled in a front pag~ article appearing in a May. 199~ issue of The WaU Street Joumal. This project has been partially funded by a grant from The Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation, Inc. Teacher-Scholar \'S. Scholar-Teacher - Social Sciences 016 A panel and participant discussion of the proper balance between the often- perceived dual roles ofthe academic. Led by Professor Jim J\fcWhirter, Union College. Is the Lecture Dead? -Bailey Hall 207 A panel and participant discussion of alternatives to the venerable lecture format in higher education. Led by Professor Alary Carroll, Union College. Oral Session 4, Arts Building, HumanitiesBuilding. Science & Engineering Complex North Wing. Social Sciences Building Poster Session 4,.Achilles Rink URN Session 4, CoUege Center Auditorium: Submitted papers describing undergraduate research issues by faculty and administrators Plenary Sessio·n 2. Memorial Chapel Speaker- Donna Cox, Ph.D., Professor, School ofArt & Design University of Illinois tit Urbana-Champaign Chapel ~l'li',ul:>il'lta4 Adjunct r':'aJ:'•rrrn,\!r NCUR 95 Welcome to NCUR ~o- Dr. J\Jerritt .\Joseley, XCUR 96 Site Chair Reception for Julian Bond, College Center Atrium Optional Actil·ities and Tours Meet your bus at the time/location listed below: The National Baseball Hall of Fame-1:15pm at the bus stop in front of the Memorial Fieldhouse Howe Caverns - I :30 pm at the bus stop in front of the Memorial Fieldhouse Arew York State ;\/useum- 1:45pm at the bus stop infront of the Memorial Fieldhouse Radio Davs at Proctor's Theater -buses will be running from the official NCUR 95 hotels: refer to your hotel shuttle schedule for exact time and location · Videotape Viewing of Plenary Session 1 (Dr. Baruch Blumberg) will be available on Friday from 9:00am to ..J:OO pm and on Saturday from 9:00am to 1 :00 pm in Social Sciences Building 016. Videotape Viewing of Plenary Session 2 (Professor Donna Cox) will be available on Saturday from 9:00 am to I :00 pm in Social Sciences Building 016. The Concordiensis • ApriltJ, 1995 • Page 11

'I Page 12 • April13, 1995 • The Concordiensis Spring Break Quiz By Rawson Thurber Concordiensis Staff Yippee! We're all back at school:! With that out of the way, it is time for all of you to test yourselves so that you can quan- tify the value .of your Spring Break! So below is a quick and dirty quiz you can administer .to the hazy memorie~ of your Break .. After you've taken the test com- pare your results to others, and make fun of those whose Spring Breaks were not as toe-curling great as yours. At any rate, here we go: 1) I spent my Spring Break: a) In the warmth of a Southern state/island; where all I did was spend money and sit in the sun b) In the warmth of a Southern state/island; where all I did was, ummm, well, I was really drunk and .... c) In the bitter cold of my home in the beleaguered Northeast. 2) The number of hours I spent lying on the floor red as a lobster mumbling deliriously, \Must stop burning, must stop burning ... \: a) 0-3 hours b) 4-12 hours c) 13 or more hours 3) My attempts at trying to pick up members of the opposite sex could be comp~~ed to: a) Trying to blowout a light bulb b) Repeatedly throwing myself down a flight of stairs c) I was like Michael Jordan, you can't stop me you can only hope to contain me. 4) Number of hours spent as a sttunbling drunk.: a)0-47 hours b)48-72 hours c) Cannot answer, still drunk. ... 5) I know I had a great Spring Break because: a) My mother told me so b) I have all these pic\' tures of me wearing clothing that I don't own ... c) Upon· return to school, I'm so exhausted I need another break immediately 6) The song that best describes my Spring Break is.: a) Naughty by Nature's \O.P .P,\ b) \Loser\ by Beck c) \Why Don't We get Drunk and Screw\ by Jimmy Buffet 7) When I ran out of money, I got more by: a) The nearest ATM b) Is this a beer ques tion? c) .Prostitution, prostitu tion, prostitution 8) On my trip, if someone sug- gested doing something other than getting tan, my reply was: a) OK. Wanna catch a movie, go to the mall, or do any- thing else we could just as easily do back at school? b) If you so much as even stand -in my sun, I'll loose my boot in your ass. c) Yeah, right. Bye-bye. 9) When it was time to leave, I felt: a) Drunk. Very, very drunk. b) Poor. Very, very poor. c) Happy, relaxed, and S'irt, fff 'JRAt tiutt {'i~r\f 1\en, \\t how A~t ,rt«.,., A ltttte \M4n tMt qf ttr At M«. ready to retum to academics Now score yourself: 1) a)2 b)3 c)l 6) a)2 b)l c)3 2) a)3 b)2 c)l 7) a)l b)3 c)2 3) a)2 b)2 c)3 8) a)2 b)l c)3 4) a)l b)2·c)3 9) a)3 b)1 c)2 5) a)l b)3 c)2 1~9: Well there's really no way to sugar coat it, your Spring break pretty much sucked. You might want to spend your next break doing something for the home- less. At least that way somebody ~ is getting sqmeth.ing out of the deal. Don't be too upset. Maybe someday when you are in your forties you can actually take a vacation with your spouse and nine children to someplace of ungodly expense. So here's to you! 10-19: Your break was admi- rable. You didn't enter a wet T- shirt, drinking, or bikini coatest, but were content to watch others destroy their brain cells and char their skin in the sun. You prob- -ably were the picture taker on the trip as well as the only member who remembered the previous evening's. occurrences. Just think of yourself as the benevolent sec- · retary of Sp,ring Break. But maybe next time, ente~: ..tha~ belch- ing cofl.test. .. 20-27: All hail the messiah of Spring Break! You had an unbe- lievable time. Whether you were passed out or burning yourself in the sun for hours on end, you were having F-U-N!!!. And that's what it's all about.- Upon your return to school you probably needed another break and that's the way it's supposed to be in college. So congratulations!'! Now if you could only stop peel- ing ..... Sreut ~r ~r jtMntt'j tkrtM'Jk colletJe. 6-rt A ft\t'l'l't(f(te 0\it Of tN WA\j. TAke A CO\il}t \fO'i~v~ 1w1 ~\'J· Or rt--t'Mt A ctMI)e thAt iook ~~. M(( <Jjfer{ \jtM two '\\'l\iftf \1/rttt. over }oo cOMI'ft{ to dloO{e jrOK1. All lilt tkt low co{t of fll fW oUft ko\tr. 1\4(( \lfi\41\4C\l \C\\\IDN~ \C\\~ION I \TA-lT\ ~\Y 30 \1'\~ION 2. \ThlT\ J\'-'1 (0 f1o{t m AVARAI7lt wkei1 '1o\ m-\MOnttH'J, AfnntooH, or tvuttti'J-{O \j0\4 '\\ Milt AW~ IMnt ~f {'i~er. fol (OI\4PLfT'C\ INfOll'\hTION_, (AU. r-loo-72-+-\llf4~fl (71,,) Features SPRINGFES~ I.S .N·E.AR ·· By Max Yutsis Concordiensis Staff The birds are singing, the flowers are blooming and· the students are festive. Springfest '95, the biggest party of the . year, is just around the comer. You have heard whispers, comM ments and groans, but this, will· be a screaming event! The Social Committee is now workfug with the Concert Com- . mittee, Mountebanks, the Film Committee, Chet\ s Committee, the Speaker's Forum, the Stu- dent Forum; and Dining SerM . vices to bring this campus the greatest varietY in fun and en- tertainment. \Administration faculty and tremendous student support is allowing Springfest to commence on Friday, May 26,\ declares committee mem- ber Jon Klein. This major student.:run event will be kicked-off with a camM · pus-wide _picnic/barbecue that sets the tone for a battle ofthe bands. Mountebanks will per- fonn a comedy skit to ease the strl;)ss of the academi~ world. -Thert:; ,Will be professional:.co ... · medians, singers and entertain- ers perfonning at Springfest. Saturday, May 28, is planned . to start at noon with a carnivaL . Greek houses and various crun- pus organizations :wHl-set-up festival style boethsas the back• . drop for a· campus musipal blowout. ~The cafhival will in- . dude professional booths and a· · · concert il!l going to featur~ the top of the line musical groups. All Union students are en- couraged to contribute to the · making of Springfest '95. All bands and musical groups are welcome to participate. IndiM vidual talents such as comedy, singing, or any well-groomed· students are welcome to per• fonn. Please submit.anyideas, contributions or facts oftheO.J. · case to box #2177. / I Union St.u·dents:· No Longer Mute Puppets By Alexis Leist Features Editor On Monday, AprillO close to one hundred students walked ·heM tween the College Center, the Nott, and Schaffer library in proM test of the recent decision made by the administration requiring ALL students who live on camM pus to participate in the sd1ool' s meal plan. On the surface, this decision was implimentedto raise additional funds for the school and to bring the differing social stratus of Union closer together. Providing more money for schol- arship funds is completely under- standable, but on a more social level, it seems as if this decision will only serve to crowd the dinM inghalls and embitter all shidents towards both the administration and the rest of campus. . The fact that Union College does not have the capacity to ad- equately feed all on campus stuM dents was made evident by the action undertaken winter term. Moreover, the quality ofthe food would be lessened. Keep in mind, our dining service has already failed the Board of Health inspec- tion. While Greeks who are usu- ally confined to their house meal plans will be dining with indepen- dents and Greeks who do not have kitchens, how would the new plan promote cultural diversity and social harmony? Let's face it, to start with the campus is already pretty stratified, wouldn't differ- ent social circles just sirnply sit with themselves and mingle with one another? I hardly see this as a chance for making new friends. Leave that to social functions. Most importantly, as all those who voiced their opinions at the protest today pointe~ out, this de- cision was made without the con- sentaf us, the student body. And who represents this campus' needs better than the students?:. Perhaps protest seems futile, after all the decision has alre~d>l been made, no questions asked. However, the protest was admi- rable considering that the last time Union staged such a protest, was in 1972 when students mad¢ a last effort to opposie the Viet- nam War. As all those who dem- onstrated agreed upon, the stuM dents have stayed apathetic and immobile for far too long. Yet, even with our concerted efforts: the actions taken winter tenn, the petitions, and Monday's protest, we are still ignored and unheard. The administration complains of our apathy, and then just as quickly dismisses our obvious attempts to change this stereo- type. Is this fair? Just when the shtdents are spurred to action, the administration tums a deaf ear, forgetting who makes this cam- pus. As someone said at the rally, this is not a Greek or non-Greek debate but a democratic one. For such' decisions to be made with- out our consent and prolonged discussion is preposterous and ty- rannical. What IS Next? As perspective freshmen toured the campus this past Mon- day with their families, they re- ceived a first hand view of the in- equality which exists on our cam- pus. But luckily, they arrived at a moment of resistance and saw the determination of a student population which refuses to act as mute puppets. The implemen- tation of the new meal plan may be inevitable, but it took someM thing like this to break an apa- thetic streak and. guarantee inM creased student involvement and debate on all issues which diM rectly affect tis in the future.

Arts and Entertainment The Concordiensis • Aprill3, 1995 • Page 13 Thursday April13- Monday April17 'EVERYTHING IS ON SALE IN: COLLEGIATE CLOTHING ' EMBLEMATIC GOODS GLASSWARE & CERAMICS SAVE 20% - 50·% .;,· . OFF OF OUR REGULAR PRICES ;_f < \ . ·' •• . •J J~~~J,., -.'. ·\'l f -·~ ' -~· l j- '\ • • • ' .1 . ., . • . \ ·n , GENERAL READING BOOKS 10% - 25% OFF REG. PRICES . ASSORTED STATIONERY ITEMS 25% - 50% OFF -REG. PRICES - COMPUTERS AND ACCESSORIES 5% -50% OFF REG. PRICES THE COLLEGE BOOKSTORE COLLEGE ·CENTER . HOURS MONDAY -FRIDAY 8:45-4:30 SATURDAYS 11:00-3:00 ·· TELEPHONE 388-6188 ,':'·

Page 14 • April13, 1995 • The Coucordiens..is Jazzman Willie Ruffto Give Lecture/Performance Courtesy oftlteArts Department Performer, author, and educa- tor Willie Ruffwill present alec- ture/performance at 7:00pm on Monday, April 17,.1995, in the College Center Auditorium at Union College in Schenectady, NY. Entitled \Reflections on Porgy and Bess,\ the lecture will focus on various aspects of George Gershwin's landmark opera. Willie Ruff's life in music spans five decades and five con- tinents. As one half of the Mitcheii-RuffDuo, he has spent the last forty years traveling the globe, introducing jazz to new audiences in South America, Af- rica, China, and the Soviet Union. On French hom and bass, he has performed and recorded with such jazz luminaries as Duke Ellington, Benny Goodman, Lionel Hampton, Dizzy Gillespie, Miles Davis, and Gil Evans. On a previous visit to the Union Col~ lege campus (June 1989), Ruff was honored with the \Doctor of Letters\ degree. Ruff has docu- mented his remarkable life in A CalltoAssembly: The Autobiog- raphy of a Musical Storyteller (Viking, 1991 ), which won the ASCAP Deems Taylor Prize for writing on music. Ruff is cur- rently on the faculty of the Yale School ofMusic, where he heads the Duke Ellington Fellowship Series, a program which brings jazz masters to the Yale campus and the greater New Haven com- munity. Arts &'Entertainment Poetry Contest Celestial Arts is sponsoring .a free poetry contest open to every- . one. There are 28 prizes in aU, including a $1,000 grand prize. \This is the first poetry contest we -have ever sponsored,\ says Ralph Kasper, the non-profit organization's noted Director. \Po- ' etry is the Cinderella of the Arts, and we think our contest will help . change that. New York has pro·duced many fine poets over the years, and we expect many in the Schenectady area will take ad- vantage of this :fine opportunity to participate.\ Poems tnay be written on any.subject, using any style. The dead'- line for entering is April25, 1995. Winners will be notified the last week in July, 1995. Those wishing a winner's list must enclose a self-addressed and stamped envelope. To enter, send one poem 21lines or less to: Celestial Arts, 11314 Ventura Blvd., Suite 112, Studio City, California 91604. Write for Arts & Entertainment Contact Suzanne ·or Leena at X6155 Avant-Garde Fiction Festival Comes to Albany CourtesyojNew YorkState Writers .Institute The New York State Writers Institute will sponsor a two-day festival entitled, \Women Multiculturalism and the Avant- Garde: Where the Action Is\ to be held Friday and Saturday, April 21 and eluding Esperanza Cintron, elude Double or Nothing(l971 ), Raymond Federman, Laura winner of the Frances Steloff Marello, David Matlin, Eugene Fiction Prize and The Panahe Mirabelli. Experimental Fiction Prize, Take On Saturday, April 22, from 1 ~ ·Jt o~Leave It (1 CJ7G);Smi;~s on to 2:30pm in the Campus Center WashingtonSquare(1985), win- Room 375, there will be a joint ner of The American Book reading, the participants will be Award, and To Whom it May announced. From 3 to 5 pm, in Concern ( 1990). He is the Melodia E. 22, I 995. in the Campus Center of the University at Albany's up- town campus. The festival will feature panel discus- sions and A vant-garde writers have always sent us word from the far reaches of inner spaceo In a quickly changing world, we look to- ward our avant-garde to stay ahead of the game and to keep us moving. Jones Chair of Literature at The State University of New York at Buffalo. Eu- gene K. Garber's Metaphysi- readings and is free and open to the public. Campus Center Room 375, there will be a panel discussion, \What Challenges aqd/or Gifts have Women and Multicultural Writ- ers for the A vant-garde?\ Finally at 8 pm in Campus Center Assem- bly Hall, there will be a joint read- ing, including Eugene Garber, Jaimy Gordon, Judith E. Johnson and Cris Mazza. 'al Tales won the Associated Writing Programs' 1981 award for short fiction. His novel The Historian, won the 199 I Will- iam Goyen Prize for Fiction sponsored by Tri Quarterly. He has been awarded fiction fellow- ships by the National Endow- ment for the Arts and the New York State tute of Radcliffe College, and a fiction award from American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters in 1991 for the body of their work. She now teaches at Western Michigan University. Judith E. Johnson has published numerous volumes of poetry and fiction including How the Dead Count (I 978), The Life of Riot (short fiction, 1970), Cities of Mathematics and Desire, which won the DiCastagnola Prize for Poetry from the Poetry Society of America, and The lee Lizard ( 1992 ). Johnson, a past president of the Poetry Society of America, has received numerous awards and fellowships for her work in- cluding a Playboy fiction award, the Yale Series ofYounger Poets Prize, and a National Endowment for the Arts Fellowship. Cris Mazza has published six books of fiction which include the novels Your Name Here: ,Exposed(l994), and How to Leave a Country (I 992). Her collections of short Lauri Award for Fiction from VIA, th~ Quarterly West novella contest, and an honorable men- tion in the Sonora Review fiction contest. David Matlin is the author of several published volumes of po- etry including China Beach ( 1989) and most recently, Dressed in Protective Fashion ( 1990). His first novel, How the Night is Divided, was published in 1993. Bruce McPherson has been in- volved in literary and arts publish- ing since his student days at Brown University where he man- aged and then directed Hellceal Press. Upon graduation he founded Treacle Press, and, in the late I 970 's, he established an art imprint, Documentext. In 1983, he refonn·ed his pub I ishing activi- ties as McPherson & Company and has released well over 1 00 publications and editions. Eugene Mirabelli is the author of four novels: The Burning Air (1959), The Way In (1968), No A vant-garde writers have al- ways sent us word from the far reaches of inner space. In a quickly changing world, we look to our avant-garde to stay ahead of the game and to keep us mov- ing. Recently, some of the most dynamic and magical writing has been coming to us through multicultural energy and feminist excess. The festival brings to- gether writers of divergent prac- tices and backgrounds to read from their works and to discuss their craft. Panels will focus on what feminist, multicultural, and avant-garde fictions have to of- fer each other and what chal- lenges each aesthetic proposes to the other. Esperanza Cintron is the author of Shades ( 1991 ), a collection of interwoven pieces of fiction about a group of Black women and the men they encounter. She also has published seve~al pieces of fiction and poetry including: \Lemons\ in The Little Magazine, \Mas Abuelos\ in The Dynamics of Violence, and \Home\ in Seeds: The Journal of Sisters of Color. Cintron is the recipient of the Michigan Council for the Arts Individual Artist's Grant for fic- tion and was an instructor of prose fiction at the University at Al- bany. Council on the r-------------------------_, Arts. Garber Resting Place (1972 ), and The World at Noon (1994). He is one ofthe co-founders of Alternative Lit- erary Programs in the . Schools (ALPS);New York State's premiere On Friday, April 21, from 3 to 5 pm in Campus Center Assem- bly Hall, there will be a panel dis- cussion on \What Challenges and/or Gifts has the A vant-garde for Women and Multicultural Writers?\ That evening at 8 pm, in Campus Center Assembly Hall, there will be a joint reading in· Raymond Federman, fiction writer, poet and critic, is an im- portant figure in American ex- perimental fiction. His novels in- received a Presidential Award for Ex- cellence in Graduate Teaching in 1982, and he was named a Distinguished Teaching Professor at the Uni- versity at Albany in 1989. Jaimy Gordon, novelist, is the author of Shamp of the City-Solo ( 1980), regarded by some as an underground classic, and She Drove Without Stopping (I 990). She has received awards from the National Endowment for the Arts, the Provincetown Fine Arts Work Center, the Bunting Insti- fiction include Revelation Count- down ( 1993 ), Js It Sexual Harass- ment Yet? (1991), and Animal Acts (1989). She teaches in the Pro- gram for Writers at the University of Illinois at Chicago and has be- gun editing a yearly anthology of alternative fiction by women. Laura Marello is the author of The Tenants of the Hotel Biron, Catch Me Go Looking and Claim- ing Kin. She won. the Aniello organization for sponsoring writ- ing workshops in elementary and secondary schools. For additional information con- tact the Writers Institute at (518)442-5620.

Arts & Entertainment THE REEL PICTURE Marlon Brando Learns Love Lessons From a Regular Don Juan ''DonJuan DeMarco. \ Starring Marlon Branda, Johnny Depp, Faye Dunaway; Directed by Jeremy Leven. Rated PG-1 3, NewLineCinema. Rating: ** 1/2 (out of four) .by Larry Paska Concordiensis Staff An interesting concept that will probably be passed over by marty moviegoers, Don Juan DeMarco brings film legend Marlon Brando back to the screen in his first role in years. It also proves how mature Johnny Depp has become as an actor. And it proves Faye, D1,1naway .is a completely useless addition to any movie (remem- ber her in The Temp?). The cast- ing is a bit strange: one would think this film should have re- ceived a higher profile since it marks the return of veteran actor Brando. One would also th·ink Brando could have been cast in a more exciting role. Brando, now large enough to play the universe in the next Star Trek movie, is cast as psycho- therapist Jack Mickler, who is treating a delusional young man who fancies himself as Don Juan, the world's greatest lover. Con- vincing ''Don.Juan,that1le, too, is great, Mickler wins DeMarco's trust and begins treating him. But DeMarco starts counseling Mickler, showing him how to re- ally live life and feelthe passion in love thattoo many people lose. Branda plays his role .straight~ in fact, too straight. His charac- ter seems rather emotionless, and the few witty remarks he makes do not hold anything compared to Depp's style. Depp is the movie. Playing an Italian boy with a Spanishaccent seems effortless to him, and his character truly cap- tivates the audience. This remains pretty good work, considering he is paired with the best in the busi- ness-Brando. Oris he? Brando looks downright embarrassing on screen: it's amazing what twenty years can do to one's weight. All the more reason he looks so mis- matched with his on-screen wife, Dunaway. She plays Mickler's wife, Marilyn, a woman who also forgot true romance and is now learning a few lessons on love from her husband. The film bor- ders on a gigantic send-up by this point. Johnny Depp teaching Marlon Brando how to be roman- tic? It's silly, but it's fun to watch. Dunaway, as mentioned, is not particularly exciting in her role, and in her scenes with Brando, she ends up making him look better than he actually is. While one never generates the true sense of romance described by DeMarco throughout the film, this slight comedy, scripted by Leven and co-produced by Francis Ford Coppola, remains pleasant to watch and the perfect example of Depp's versatility. Between this and Ed Wood, Depp is showing his strength, so it should not be long until Oscar night will see him receiving an Academy A ward. Also Recommended with Bran do: Guys and Dolls { 1955- * ** 1/2 ), The Godfather ( 1971- ****) Also Recommended with Depp: Edward Scissorhands (1990-***),Ed Wood(1994-***) Schenectady M.· useum Be . . . Union College Concert Series Last two concerts: Saturday, April 22 Thursday, April 27 Free for Campus Community! Pick up your tickets in the Student Activities Office, CC408m The Con~ordiensis • April13, 1995 • Page 15 In the Mouth of Madness Courlesy of New Line Cinema Public Relations Imagine a novel so over- whelmingly hypnotic, so tre- mendously horrifying that it paralyzes its audience with fear and turns its most sensible reader insane. New Line Cin- ema p'r((sents John Carpenter's psychological horror film, In . the Mouth of Madness. Sutter Cane (Jurgen Prochnow) is this century's most widely read author. His · horror novels have been trans- lated into 18 different lan- guages, and they make Stephen · King look likearankam~teur. When Cane vanishes justdays before he's expected to deliver his latest manuscript, his pub- lisher, played by Academy- Award winner, Charlton Heston, hires John Trent (Sam Neill) to investigate his myste- rious disappearance. With the writer's fans whipped into a public frenzy, Trent believes the case is noth- ing but an ill conceived public- ity stunt- until he and Cane's editor, Linda Styles (Julie Carmen), travel to New En- gland in search of clues. There, they wind up in a town called Hobbs Erid, a fictional village that exists only in Cane's nov- els. Has the investigation un- earthed a fantasy world or has . ~ ~·· &- reality blended with the macabre imagination ofSutter Cane? The 16th film to be directed by John Carpenter, who also directed Starman, Halloween, and Chris- tine, In the Mouth of Madness fea- tures special effects by the Acad- emy Award-winning team at In- dustrial Light+ Magic, and KNB EFX Group. Sandy King serves .., j * ;; as producer of the film written by Michael DeLuca. Artist Robinson is associate producer. Write for the C d. \ '\ oncor tensts ... Call Diana at X6155 THE REEL PICTURE Whatcha Gonna Do When the Bad Boys Come For You? \Bad Boys. \ Starring Martin Lawrence, Will Smith. Directed by Michael Bay. Rated R, Columbia Pictures. Rating: ** (outoffour) by Larry Paska Concordiensis Staff Those people laughing at the thought of comedian Lawrence and TV star/rapper Smith in a cop-buddy action movie take note: this picture passes as per- fectly acceptable weekend-es- capist fare. It contains every- thing action-lovers crave in a film like this-risk-taking cops performing totally unrealistic stunts, a drug-trafficking plot, really nasty bad guys, a rebel- lious girl who gets involved with the good guys, car crashes, and more exploding glass than in the past ten action films put together. Yes, all that is here, along with a simple plot disguised as complicated for the sole pur- pose of dragging out the film to include more explosions. Lawrence is family man Marcus Burnett, whose wife is mad he doesn't spend enough time with the family. Smith plays his millionaire partner Mike Lowrey, who inherited a whole bunch of money and only stays a cop because he likes the job. When the police drug depository is wiped clean of$100 million worth ofheroin, Burnett and Lowrey are called in to investigate. A prostitute (Tea Leoni) witnesses a murder com- mitted by the bad guys and calls Lowrey, who is the victim's friend. Lowrey couldn 'tcome to the phone, so Burnett disguises himself as his partner and puts her under police protection at Lowrey's apartment. Since the girl confuses Burnett for Lowrey, the two cops switch roles, leav- ing Burnett to pose as Lowrey and Lowrey to enjoy the hospitality of Burnett's wife. Confused yet? The obvious insinuations ensue, creating some hysterical scenes as Burnett tries to prove Lowrey is sleeping with his wife. The finale, which could have been reached a lot sooner, is an all-out war in an airplane hanger. The body count is high in the film, and all the while one never really can get into the two leads. Lawrence and Smith do a cred- ible job as action stars, but when they are not playfully bickering with each other, the audience never gets a sense of how much they truly trust each other, espe- cially when they \swap roles\ to protect the witness. But by ap- proaching their roles with more comedy than seriousness, Lawrence and Smith let the view- ers know the whole thing is to be taken lightly, and that they have no intention of being taken seri- ously in any future movies. (Too bad: Smith was good in Six De- greesofSeparation.) This detail is okay, because they want you to re- alize what you are watching is not Cops, but Hollywood Cops. Under the watchful supervision of first-time director Bay, whose turf is directing music videos, the film's editing is both fast-paced and too frantic. Bay's expertise in music videos shows too apparently, as the film is do.tted with scenes cut too soon for the viewer to make any sense of them. During the break-in of the police depository, the cam- era catches over a hundred differ- ·entshots ofthe criminals breaking in, yet what they are actually doing is incomprehensible. The pace gen- erates excitement while ereating confusion. Bay's techniques of quick shots dominate the film, mak- ing the action quick yet never en- grossing. An obvious rehash of cop-buddy pictures like Lethal Weapon, Bad Boys is living proof the action-com- edy genre is alive and well in Hol- lywood. And while Lethal Weapon is more memorable (and better scripted), no one will deny that Bad Boys contains all the key elements for making a standard action flick. Also Recommended: Lethal Weapon (1987-***), Lethal Weapon 2 ( 1989-***) Also Recommended with Smith: Six Degrees of Separation (1993- ***)

P .. ge 16 • April13, 1995 • The Concordiensis Arts & EQ:tertainment The Grind Goes to Video PETER FRAME TO TEACH BALLEr MASTER ClASS - Courtesy of MTV public relations Sony Music Video and MTV are gonna make you sweat this summer with the release of a new workout home video led by Eric Nies,. host of MTV's popular dance show \The Grind.\ \The Grind Workout Hip Hop Aerobics\ {$12. 98), which also features \The Grind\ clancers, will be in stores May 16. '\The Grind Workout Hip Hop Aerobics\ is the first all-original, direct-to-video programming from the MTV Home Video line. This low impact, aerobic work- out combines current workout trends, such as \Power Funk\ and \Hip Hop Funk,\ with a heart- thumping exercise routine. Set to the beat of a funky soundtrack, in- cluding \You Gatta Be\ by Des' ree, \Tum the Beat Around\ by Vicki Sue Robinson and \In- sane In the Brain\ by Cypress Hill, the video incorporates the freshest dance steps with a spe- cial abdominal workout routine led by Eric. ''The Grind Work- out Hip Hop Aerobics\ was de- veloped with certified Aerobics and Fitness Association of America(AFAA) fitness consult- ant Peg Jordan, RN, to assure tha exercises were done according t AF AA 's standards and guide- lines. This is a great aerobic vide to change your winter body int a new fit, summer body. OUT IN AMERICA: Multimedia Portrait of Gay and Lesbian Div in America\ presents a colorful orama that explores and celebrates gay diversity in America. Candid and slides by today\s leading photographers gays and lesbians from all segments of s -at work, at home, in sports, in the media, c, and in private. Photographs of farn1ers olice officers, musicians, retirees, activists , reporters, drag queens, , and many, many, others. Thursday, April13, 1995 College Center Auditorium 7 pm Courtesty of Performing Arts Department Former principal dancer of the New York City Ballet Company, Peter Frame will present an in· formal lecture followed by a master class on Friday, April14, 1995, in the Performing Arts Stu- dio in the Arts Building at Union College. The lecture will take place at 3:30 pm, with the mas- ter class. beginning at 4:.00 pm. Mr. Frame joined New York City Ballet in 1976 and was pro- moted to principal status in 1987. He p.resently guest teaches throughout the United· States as well as at The School of Ameri- can Ballet. He developed a course for young male dancers at the school to enrich their partnering skills. In addition, he is also called upon to \set\ Balanchine works on smaller C01Ilpanies around the country and is a personal trainer in New York City. · Mr. Peter Frame is the Artis- tic Advisor of Northeast Ballet Company, the resident company of Proctors Theaterr in - Schenectady. Reservations are requested,,_ registration is limited to 25 danc- ers with preference given to Union College student dancers. Danc_ers must be at least 13 years of age and \on pointe\ although the class will not be on pointe. The cost for the class is $ 7.00 per person, free to Union Col- lege students enrolled in the dance practica. There is no charge for the informal lecture. For reservations , contact the Performing Arts Department, 388~6785. Student Apartments Available '95 - '96 Carpet * Appliances * Furnished * Lease* Off Street Parking* 3, 4, 6, or 7 Bedrooms* Remodeled Throughout Call370 - 5498 CAMPUS FILM FILE--- Life and Hope in Shaw shank Prison by Larry Paska Concordiensis Staff Rating: ****{outoffour) A superbly crafted tale of hope and the triumph of the human spirit, The Shawshank Redemp- tion is a remarkable piece of film- making that was cheated on Os- car night but can be savored by all (it is released on home video this week). As a banker wrong- fully accused for the double-mur- der of his wife and her lover, Robbins further solidifies his sta- tus as a gifted actor. Sentenced to two life-terms at Shawshank Prison, he soon meets up with Red, perfectly-portrayed by Mor- gan Freeman (in an Oscar-.nomi- nated role). Robbins and Freeman form a bond in prison, and teach each other to \get busy livin' or get busy dyin. '\ A corrupt war- den, ruthless prison guards, and fellow inmates routinely test these .characters' limits of emotional and physical. endurance. The film is sprinkled with bits of humor, allowing these characters to find simple joy when they can. Based on the short story Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption by Stephen King, and adapted for the screen by director Frank Daramont, this is a tale of survival that never drags or remains un-. emotional. At nearly two-and-a- halfhours, the film is almost epic in length. But all throughout, one can only feel anger for a system that punishes the guilty, regret for a man done wrong, and concern for a society that winds up insti- tutionalizing its prisoners. James Whitmore turns in an emotional performance as Brooks, an inmate at the jail for over forty years who has adjusted to prison life. Daramont's direc- tion is first-rate, providing shots of the prison from every angle. And while the ending may not settle with everyone, the film competes with Schindler's List in how amazingly it depicts human hope. With all that GumpMania go- ing on, The Shawshank Redemp- tion was cheated on Oscar night. Earning seven Academy Award nominations, it failed to receive a single Oscar. At the very least, it deserved Best Adapted Screen- play. But the film suffers from a confusing title and the fact it was not widely-seen. While Oscars cannot be returned, maybe now this film will be seen as the mas- terpiece it really is. How can any- one honestly believe that Forrest Gump was more worthy of all the major awards than this brilliant portrayal ofhumansurvival? The Academy must be stupid~ but as their favorite child said, \stupid is as stupid does.\ For another outstanding portrayal of life in prison, check out Steve McQueen and Dustin Hoffman in Papillon (1973, available on Fox Video). Coming This Weekend: Leg- ends of tile Fall The tale of two Montana men in love with the same woman catapulted Brad Pitt to sexiest man alive-status, co-starred An- thony Hopkins and Julia Ormond, and received an Academy Award for Best Cinematography. Not well-received critically,this film became a box-office hit and proved simple love stories blown up into pretentious, expensive epics are still preferred by mov- iegoers. Friday-Monday in the College Center Auditorium. Tonight Only: Interview with the Vampire Tom Cruise in the controversy- creating role of the vampire Lestat, with Brad Pitt~ the sexi- est man dead, playing a vampire telling a story spaiming genera- tions. Intriguing and sometimes vein-popping, but it has an end- ing that really bites. Ends tonight in the College Center Auditorium. Top Ten Movies 1. Rob Roy, starring Liam Neeson 2. Tommy Boy, Chris Farley 3. Don Jean De Marco, Marlon Brando 4. Jefferson In Paris, Nick Nolte 5. Dolores Claiborne, Kathy Bates ~ 6. Outbreak, Donald Sutherland 7. Losing Isaiah, Jessica Lange 8 Bulletproof Heart, Mimi Rogers 9. Tall Tale~ Patrick Swayze I 0 Forrest Gump, Tom Hanks ~------~------------~

Calendar/Personals The Concordiensis • April13, 1995 • Page 17 Personals-- Heather- M.G.- I'm disappointed I let you into the playing. field, I thought you would have been better at the game. Back to boot camp for you! Oh yeah, rm keeping the handcuffs ·_ I shudder to think of them in the hands of such an amateur. -the first person of the foursome I hope you had a great Birthday! Love, Sed Roomie- Do you have a banana in your jacket? It does add a nice touch to the room. Keep my side of the room· company while I'm not around! . Apartment For Rent Happy 21st Birthday Carmen Sandi ego! Love, your secret admirer Please save. ~s. -Amy and Barb To my fellow wonder triplets and our beloved monkey - You're the greatest! Love,H To CheesyB- You're awesome! Love, Cheesy D To Jet and Cooper- Go team sideline! Love, Roadkill Giff- Wow! I got a belt just for watch- ing! - the fourth person of the four- some Love, the MIA M:G.- Thanks anyway, but I'd prefer to leave my left breast neglected. - the third person .of the foursome To Jared- Get a haircut. Your hair sucks! Love, your brother To SRE- ls it a light flow or heavy flow day? Love, Capt. Elephantitis Classifieds -· Europe $169 o/w Caribbean/Mexico $189 r/t · California $129 If you can beat these prices start your own damn airline. Air- Tech Ltd. (212) 219-7000 info @aerotech.com 4 Bedroom with Bathroom & Kitchen 1 Block away from school Quiet Neighborhood Washer & Dryer Free Cable & Parking 1039 Park Avenue Call Today before it is too late! (800) 806-6755 Dimitrios Gatanas Campus Calendar Thursday, 04/13/95 ~ .. \ .. . .. ~ 12:00p Spanish Language Table, CC 205 12:00p \Plate Full o.f Questions\ Peer Facilitators, CC STRAUSS (305) 12:00p Campus Action, CC CIRCLE 12:30p German Language Table, CC 203 4:00p The Idol Meeting, CC 410 4:30p International Programs, HUMANITIES 115 5:30p LSAT\GRE Testing, llli OLD CHAPEL 5:30p Kaplan LSAT\GRE Preparation, SOCIAL SCIENCES 014 6:00p SHPE Meeting, CC 204 6:00p Ballet II, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (108) 6:45p IFC Meeting, CC 409 7:00p Movie: \Latino\, Sponsored by ALAS,HUMANITIES 014 7:30p Tite Calculus Center, BAILEY 203 8:00p Chet's Open, CHET'S 8:30p Orientation Interviews, CC 203, 204, 205, 302, and CC STRAUSS (305) Friday, 04/14/95 9:00a 10:00a 11:45a 12:00p 2:00p 3:30p 6:30p 7:00p Sigma Delta Pau Easter Egg Passover Sale,CC ATRIUM Sale of Gamet Yearbook, CC ATRIUM Voice Mail Training, CC 409 Campus Action, CC CIRCLE COSA Meeting, CC 205 Ballet Master Class & Discussion, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (108) Intervarsity Christian Fellowship, CC MOBIL (406) Philomathean Society, HUMANITIES 114 Saturday, 04/15/95 1 O:.OOa Karate TolJmament, MEMORIAL FIELDHOUSE 8:00p Delta Psi Delta Meeting, CC 302 1 O:OOp All Night Study Room, HH DINING ROOM Sunday, 04/16/95 12:30p Special Olympics Practice, ASTROTURF (BAILEY FIELD) 4:00p Adventurer's Guild, CC 409 6:30p Phi Iota Alpha, CC 409 7:00p Sunday Religious Service, HH OLD CHAPEL 1 O:OOp All Night Study Room, HH DINING ROOM Monday, 04/17/95 8:00a Accepted Students Day, CC ATRIUM andCC AUDITORIUM 8:00a Accepted Students Day, ARTS BUILDING ATRIUM,lffiDINING ROOM, 11 :OOa 3:30p 4:30p 4:30p HH MILANO LOUNGE,HH OLD CHAPEL, and MEMORIAL CHAPEL Accepted Students Day, HUMANITIES 019 Voice Mail Training, CC 409 Biology Majors Meeting, CC AUDITORIUM Modem Dance-Section II, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (108) 5:00p -Affiliate~ Phoh~-a-then. HHDINING ROOM 6:00p Combined Ballet, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (108) 6:30p Union College Choir Rehearsal, ARTS 215 7:00p Orientation Interviews, CC 203,204, 205, 302, and CC STRAUSS (305) 9:00p Social Committee Meeting,. CC 409 Tuesday, 04/18/95 9:30a U Call, CC 409 11 :OOa Residence Life Meeting, CC 203 11 :OOa Committee on Teaching, HH MILANO LOUNGE 11 :30a Voice Mail Training, CC 205 11 :30a Faculty Soup & Beverage, HH DINING ROOM 12:00p Japanese Table, CC 204 12:30p Flute Choir Rehearsal, ARTS 313 2:00p Managers' Meeting, CC 205 2:30p b1tem Meeting, HUMANITIES 019 3:45p Commencement Committee Meeting, CC 203 4:00p Writing Board Meeting, CC 302 4:00p The Idol Meeting, CC 410 4:30p Biology Dept. Meeting for Students, CC AUDITORIUM 5 :OOp Affiliates Phone-a-thon, HH DINING ROOM 5:30p Ballet III, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (108) 7:00p Ballet I, PERFORMING ARTS STIJDIO (108) 7:00p Portuguese/Brazilian Club, CC MOBIL (406) 7 :OOp Union College Orchestra R.:ehearsal, MEMORIAL CHAPEL 8:30p InteiVarsity Christian Fellowship, CC STRAUSS (305) Wednesday, 04/19/95 9:30a U Call, CC 409 11 :OOa COSA Meeting, CC 205 12:00p Talk to Sociology Majors and Brazil Club Students, CC MOBIL ( 406) 12: 15p Portuguese Table, CC 204 2:00p Higl1 Tea, HH MILANO LOUNGE 3 :OOp Parents Council Meeting, CC 203 3:30p Bicentenniat Steering Committee Meeting, CC 204 3:30p NCUR Staffing Committee, CC 205 4:30p h1tro to Dance Movement, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (108) 4:30p Algebra Seminar, BAILEY 205 5:00p Meditation Group, CC 302. 6:00p Modern Dance-Section I, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (108) 6:00p A.O.P. Tutoring Session, SOCIAL SCIENCES 010 and 014 6:30p Union College Choir Rehearsal, ARTS 215 7:00p Jazz Ensemble Rehearsal, ARTS 313 7: OOp Spanish Film Series, HUMANITIES 019 7:30p Dance Ensemble Meeting, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (108) 8 :OOp Delta Psi Delta Meeting, CC 203 - -

., Page 18 • April 13, 1995 • The Concordiensis Sports Women Ruggers Split at Middlebury by Katlly Walter Contributing Writer Late in the second half, in a valiant attempt at a score, Kim Sinabia was brutally attacked by the bloodthirsty barbarians. (So uncivilized were they, that we had to take her to the hospital, which was just up the road!) Once she was off the field, the team continued their brave at- tempt at revenge. It was the rookie force lead by Beth 'Tm going to be hatinglifetomorrow\ Wheat, Andrea \Big Bird\ Schulman, Naomi \Chiquita-the eight man\ Hare I, and Sara \now you see her, now you don't\ Gower, that kept spirits up with some great break away runs and gorgeously painful high tackles! !I Despite an overall great effort by the women ruggers, Middlebury clenched the rally 7-0. Last Saturday, the fearless Umon women ruggers journeyed to chilly and bucolic Middlebury, VT (where the population of cows and sheep outnumber the pe0ple) to take on the Middlebury women's team. The game started on a positive note since the ref (who was also the Middlebury women's coach) claimed he was a Union alum. However, the bril- liant Union ruggers soon realized just how long ago 1976 {when he graduated) really was. The Middlebury wo1nen scored early in the tirst halfon a break-away run. Try as they might the Union women just coi'Jld not fight the power of a ref who wanted \his team\ to win. It must be said that there was quite an effort made by Jen \I may wear a brace, but don't let that fool you\ Lelas, Amy \just let me go\ K lauke. Kim \the original and (do we dare say) tougher Truck\ Sinabia, Chris- tine \Biondie\ Hoffman, and Stacey \the cheerleader\ Fellows in carrying the ball and by \The Pack\. who moved with the swift- ness of antelopes to support Then, the killer B's launched asecond offensive. So daring and debonair were they, that the en~ tire Middlebury A-team almost needed to come on the field and drag the wounded away! After the smoke cleared, it was the Union B's clenching a win 5-0 (Congratulationsare extended to Noelle \Sweet Pee\ Somers who watched and played her first rugby game, Emily \hypother. tn ia\ Batis who stayed warm Women's Rugby Team during a home match last week. (photo by Laurel Ruma/The Concordiensis) enough to play her first game, Melissa \the only junior rookie\ Chaikin, who showed that you are never too old to play your first game of rugby, and AI ice \I'm not quite sure what to do, N~kki Stone, Union's World Champion Freestyle Aerial Champion Transfers to Amherst By Jason Starr Sports Editor Sure she doesn't actually still go here but we can still praise and admire Nikki Stone's accomplishments. For those who don't know, Nikki Stone is a World Cup Freestyle aerialist and was . · until this year a part time Union col- lege student. However, for reasons that may very well be skiing related she has transferred to Amherst College. But in our eyes she will always be a Dutchwoman. This season was the realization of a dream for Nikki. After years of dedicated practice of her trade, she'has become the best in the world at what she does, that is double twisting triple back flips on skis. This is exactly as hard as it sow1ds and Stone has mas- tered the craft in a season long battle with aerialists from all over the globe. Nikki has prevailed and is now World Champion Nikki Stone has been competing in freestyle skiing since middle school. Her high school days were spent at Waterville Academy, a school that is geared for competitive skiers in which her mornings were spent in class and her aftemoons on skis. She knew that she wanted to pursue her skiing career after high school and she tried to mix some post-high school education in with her rigorous training schedule So she came to Union as a part titne student taking every winter off to compete. After a couple of years on the U.S. alternate aerial team, Nikki worked her way onto the \A\ team. This meant that she was competing in every World Cup competition. This season was her second year as a full fledged World Cup competitor and she took full advantage winning the whole thing. So she is the best. The tragedy in all of this is that she has ditched Union. I would really enjoy talking to her and finding out what its like to be a world champ. Then again maybe that is why she left. She probably doesn't want people like me asking for her autograph every day as she tries to walk to class. The reality is that this school is too small for her. Nikki Stone, World Aerial Champion, is to() big for Union College. so I' II just tackle you\ Gn;~.bowsk i who was rescued from crew and shown the light for her first rugby game.). The team would like to thank Bob for the ride of our lives and Advertisement all the residents of route 22a for the use of their fields!!! Next week the team plays at home against the Hamilton in the Eas- ter/Passover Weekend Extrava- ganza. Hope to see you there!!! SENIORS: Ifyou are interested in speaking at the Baccalaureate or Commencement, submit a 1-4 page draft (approx. 5 min.) to Judy Ludwig, Secretary to the Dean of the Faculty and a member of the Commencement Committee, by Friday, April21. The topic is yours to choose. Please include your ID number, name, box number and phone number on your draft. If you are interested in singing at the Baccalaureate or Com,mencement, please submit your name to J11dy Ludwig by Friday, April21. If you would Uke more information about this, contact Judy Ludwig at 6010 or at Dean of the Faculty's Office on the second floor of the Administration Building. Auditions for speakers and singers will b.e held by the student members of the Commencement Committee in late April or early May. Sign up for an audition time when you submit your draft or, n.ame to Mrs. Ludwig's office. Rugby Rolls On Continuedfl'om Page 20 during the NCUR weekend. Twenty three private fan shuttl.e buses will be leaving from Union on Thursday night. Call soon for reservations, 555-6969. Additional thanks to Tom \Suspenders\ Milner, for keep- ing the Union thirty out of jail, and providing an \impartial\ referee. Union's undefeated \A\ team season includes wins over RPI, 30-20 and Hamilton, 5-0, as its \B\ team also rolls out of control on a winning streak.

!. I '' Sports Basebali!Splits Two With RIT by Jason Starr co-Sports Editor Union baseball played only two of its scheduled eight games this past week. Mother Nature only allowed for Saturday's games against RIT, The Dutchmen won the first and dropped the second on a day that saw two freshmen pitchers get their first starting nods. Coach Reynolds gave the ball to Josh Solodo and Dave Kline in games one and two ·respec- tively. The veteran pitchers up to this point have just not been producing, so this was the. day to test the young arms. It was a chance to see what the future holds for this young team. ln the first game, Solodo, the six foot freshman, stepped up in a big way .. He had the best pitch- ing outing of any Dutchman this season. He pitched the complete seven innings, not allowing a run. This was the performance that coach Reynolds had been waitin;g for. Along with the great pitching, Union's play in the field was better than .it has been. This team can win games .ifthe defense is there. Their hitting is solid and with some clutch hits, their run production is decent. On this day, they were hitting all game, but stranding runners at every bag. It was not until the fourth thatthe dutch hits started to come. The Dutchmen scored all four oftheir runs in the fourth. These four tuns were more than SoJodo needed to finish off the game. The second game was not so kind to the Dutchmen, as they fell, 13-5. It was tied 3-3 after three, as Union's bats refused to cool off Freshman Dave Kline go this first start after doing some relief work ·earlier in the season. Kline pitched well relative to other Union starters, but was not pleased with his performance, citing control problems as the main source ofhis woes. He fin- ished five innings, giving Lip five runs and leaving what was still a close game. With the score 8-5, another Freshman named Mike Hamilton came on in rel.ief. Hamilton pitched only one inning, the sixth, and gave up five runs. Many of the thirteen RIT runs came on field'ing errors, the old nemesis of this years basebaH team. These errors are repeat- edly costing them games. From Kline's point of view, the only real difference between these wins and losses is \mental er- rors''. Mental errors result in fielding errors, which result in I ost games This team's potential is alive and wen. But potential can be a bad word for a sports team. It implies under achievement With the continued success of some Freshman pitchers and some defensive play similar to that of the first RIT game. these players can easily improve on theit4-11 record. A .500season is not out of their reach Tennis Opens Season by Ken Berman co-Sports Editor The Men's Tennis Team played their first match of the season this past Thursday with a tough 6-3lossto Capital District rival RPI. The surrounding cir- cumstances of the match, how- ever,- a~e- everi -more interesting than the score itself. Our story begins the previous Tuesday, when the team was scheduled to open against Skidmore. Due to unseasonably inclement weather, though, Skidmore had' to be called and told that the match was off. Anyone who saw the team after this could easily see how upset they were. Jeff Kasowitz, him of the dashing curly hair, was seen camping.out onthecourts,indenial ofthe fact that he wouldn't be able i:o play. Brett Shapiro and SteveKicipfer, after s~eing Jhe newest Andre_ Agassi/Pete Sampras commer- cial, tryed to clear out the tables at Dutch to make room for a game, but President Hull stopped Come softball this when he noted that this would take income away from Food Services. Regardless, the team got over this event, and on Thursday boarded the bus for RPl. On arrival at RPI, the team received another piece of bad news, when they learned that they wo'uld have to play indoors, on the basketball courts. They were apprehensive at first, but Ken Chase measured out the lines, and discover:ed that they had the same dimensions as his court b;;~ck in Longmeadow. One canceled match, one bus ride, and one change of venue later, the te;;un was set to begin play. Unfortunately, all these factors proved to much for Swinging -Dutchmen to overcome. The three winners yvere #2 singles Brett Shapiro, #3 Jason Fishbein, and #6 Jasim l3eckmen. Shapiro and fi,shbein both proved th,ey could win they had te, as they tri- . umphed convincing in their third sets (Shapiro 6-1, Fishbein 6 ... 0). It is this type ofplay that the team cheer can be most proud of. Even the players who lost put out admi- rable perfonnances. Shapiro and Fishbein lost their doubles match in a tiebreaker (8-7), Klopfer and Chase lost 8-6, and Steve Chin and Ian Lev put up one helluva fight before losing 8-3. Also los- ing in singles were Chin and Kasowitz. This Saturday, the team's troubles continued, as its match against Binghamton was can- celed. However, as of press-time, three matches were scheduled for this week: at Utica on Tuesday, and here against St. Rose today, and St. Lawrence on Saturday. As Shapiro said, \We have the potential to play much better, and we should get better as the sea- son continues. We look forward to an exciting year, and we'd love to see Union come out and sup- port us.\ The weather should be nice as the week goes on, which should be ideal to watch everybody's favorite tennis team in action. the team today ' against St. Rose at home. They play at RPI on Monday Tbe Coneordiensis • April13, 1995 • Page 19 ~.. . ~· .P?',&f'. 1 IntheNBA ... YouhavetofeeLbadlyforSeottie Pippen. Although /he admits to hating the spotlight, since Michael Jordan's return, ··the chiseled,.~me is getting· about the same attention as teammate Luc Longley; That~s Justnot fair. Gvanted, the Jcrdan-led Bulls are 7~3-as of Monday a.nil Michael .is the greatest player in the world. Yet, here is a guy in Pippen who was leading the team in points, rebounds, assists, steals, and blocked shots before the great one's return. Now his number hardly ever gets called. Three times now in the last ten games, the Buns have had opportunities to win a game with a last second shot. AU three times, Jordan got the caH. even>ih only: his third game in a year and a half Now . while it is•cliffieuittoa:r.gue·with head eoach Phil .lackson 1 s deci- . sian to· g() ·tt:rthe best player in the world in crunch time, espe- ciatly·.sinee,~n&'Buli&w0'n two-of thO'se three games, would it not \~bewiseto time, go·to tfueset:O'nd best player? If not fot'Pi'}lpent\theB:u:Us wouldl:Je,fighting to avoid the lottery. Give ../:~....,.. '\\\'\'\'\\t .• e, · ----_:Ui~- .a:~-=A:ID.>t\tl~~- Y~Y, ... ;t:lun . tak~ .. tbe .ft¢1:~ .· .. ' ... -. :~·.· , .. hiforth9~e ¥flnl\i~·f'an.s counting the -~·n· major league basehaU players. will .. · · .· ·. ,t_ime in.n~ly nine months, don't start · · · ·o; . .. if~ey could be. ,~ack on the . tfl~n'ks~~a·;New.Yotkjudge. l\;; · ~asicaUy. bril)gs us .right b~ . . cefttiiaty, .. thing~ are no. dtf:'fer- 1 ;;;;'\~m~9~~~;i1\11?-~6o~{~J~tJ?~~?¥·~r .. Thi~P:@.~W~k, th~ J3xpos CQffi.-: . . uuloadif!;gtbehigh salaries of ~sorn,JltnGt~~Htfl!WUlg Larry Walker Jt:Ulirkert f&\!Ul;I::~;!~C:!f1ti1nwe ro spend

April 13, 1995 PAGE20 Women's Lax Defeats RPI; Loses Heartbreaker to Hamilton by Ken Berman Sports IJditor The Union Women's Lacrosse team has quietly been putting together a successful season, with a record thus far of 4 wins against only 2 losses. This is the teams best start since the first Reagan Administration (1982), and op- timism is riding high as the team hopes to continue their strong play. Their two games this week are a good microcosm of the sea- son so far, as they have proved to their opponents that this is not the same Dutchmen team as in years past Last Thursday, Union defeated local rival RPI. 12-8 This is sig- nificant. for last vcar. RPI handed l Inion a hig Joss Think- ing that Union had only one \\Capon Mollv PiersalL RPI set out to take this one rhcnom out of the game They put up to 4 defensemen on her at once. leav- ing her teammates f';1en The Engineers thought that thev coulddeal withthisprohlem. hut they were wrong; dead wrong. The rest of the offense turned up their play a notch, most notably Lauren{I wouldn'tput it) Pastor. Lauren scored 4 goals, including thegame winner to putRPI away. Molly, despite the overwhelming coverage, managed to put in a couple ofgoals herself This win moved their record to 4-1, with their next game against power- houseHamilton. Hamilton was another team that beat Union last year, and in a big way. The score was 12-1, and Union was out to avenge this loss. Although they did not de- feat them, the effort they gave was greatly increased, m1d the score · reflected it They lost by only one goal ( 12-11 ), and in the process served notice that they are a team to be reckoned with. MoHy Pcirs:1ll was the star. as she hJs hccn all season. as she Jed the team ·with 5 goals A loss is never anvthing to hrag about. hut un- der these circtimstances. the team has nothing to be ashamed of. The women continue their sea- son today against Williams at 4·00 up on Achilles field, and T'm sure that the team wmild enjoy your support. The way they're playing, you won't be disap- pointed. Freshman lacrosse player, Lauren Pastor, helps Union against Hamilton {Joshua HainestrC) Track Splits Weekend third in the 1500 meter with a time of 4:20.1. In the 400 meters Mike Leding finished second with a personal best time of 51.98. The men swept the 100 meters with Dave Riggi finish- ing first in a time Of 11.3, Jason Jennings second 'in a time of 11.89, and Len Mortimer in third in 12.55. The men also swept the 200 meters with Dave Riggi placing first in 23.2, Jason Jennings second in a time of 24.0; and Mike Leding third in a time of24 .1·. In the 800 meters Nick Conway placed second in a time of 2:00.3. In the hammer Jon Gainor placed second with a throw of 41.60 meters. Rich Pulver placed first in the shot put with a distance of 15.62 m~ters setting a meet record and quali- fying for nationals. In the long jump Mike Martin placed second with a leap of 5.17 meters, and George 'Tiggle placed third with a distance of 5.11 meters. Mike Martin also won the triple jump with a leap of 11.80 meters. Nolan Farris soared to first place in the high jump easily clearing 6 feet 1 inch. Rich Pulver also placed first in the discus with a throw of 43.58 meters. Matt Johnson won the Javelin with a toss of52.64 meters. In the 5000 meters Dave Kunselman placed third in a time of 17:04.2. To end the c;iay the 4x400 meter re• lay team of Russ Stram, Mike Leding, Ray Tricozzi, and Nick Conway placed second in a time of3:32.88. by Mike Leding Concordiensis Staff This past weekend at Hamilton, the Union College Track and Field Team competed against Hamilton College, and Mohawk Community College. Both the men and women beat Mohawk, but lost by a small mar- gin to Hamilton. There were many impressive times and a plethora of first place finishes. In this meet as last week, the top three in every event placed. The scoring for the Dutchwomen was once again started by Linda Seymour in the 5000 meters. Linda placed third in a time of 20:20.1. Nadine Filosi tried to win the meet by herself by competing in the 100 meter high hurdles, I 00 meter dash, long jump, high jump, the Javelin, and the 200 meter dash. The javelin was the only event that Nadine was not top three in, she placed fourth. In the high hurdles Nadine placed first in a time of 18 .54, third in the I 00 meter dash with a 14.28, first in the long jump with a distance of 4.40 meters, first in the high jump, clearing 4 feet 10 inches, and third in the 200 with a time of29.66. In the 400 meter inter- mediate hurdles Kelly Jamieson ran it against her will and placed second in a time of 1 :21.99. Michele Woodward placed sec- ond in the hammer with a dis- tance of 18:94 meters, Michele also finished third in the shot with a throw of7.26 meters. Julie Firman won the shot put with a throw of9.23 meters. The long jump was swept by Union with Tamara Saukin and Dawn Landry finishing second and third respec- tively behind Nadine with jumps of 4.35 meters, and 4.26 meters. Tamara won the triple jump with a distance of 9.87 meters, and Dawn was second traveling 9.35. meters. In the women's javelin Heather Rock placed second with a throw of 22.44 meters. In the 3000 meters Amelia Audette placed third with a time of 11 :55.3, rounding out one of the women's most spectacular per- formances in a while. The 4x100 meter relay team of George Tiggle, Len Mortimore, Jason Jennings, and Dave Riggi placed first in a time of 46.09 to start off the scoring for the men. Seth Rudin placed This week the team travels to Williams to compete in their in- vitational. It's a fast track so the team is ready to qualifY a lot mor~ people for states. Good luck. Men's Rugby Downs Colgate by Mike Gifford Contributing Writer Fighting through the blinding snow of a class 4 blizzard, the Union Men's Rugby Team trounced the once pre-eminent Red Raiders of Colgate in a brew- ha ha which took the lives of two innocent bystanders. The game composed of three thirty-minute halves, in which Union thoroughly dominated the foreign pitch. In the first third, the Union serum led by senior rookie Matt \Eyeshadow\ Forster~ who was hit by six low flying aircraft during the match, consistently won the ball at each stoppage. However, thanks to Kirk \I love my Waterba:biesl\ Andrea's frequently errant kicks, the score was not recorded until midway through the half, when Irish veteran Port \0' Potty\ Davenport scored on an amaz- ing 10 foot standing long jump after feigning passes to each member of the Union team. Seth \I told you it was east on 90\ Brown successfulJy booted through the extra points, leav- ing the score 7-0, Union. However, this proved to be the only scoring of the \A\ game, in which Union's defense proved strong. The pounding started early with Rick \Take tv is pencil out of my ear\ Scharf laying out a bevy of opposing ruggers, who soon became fro- zen solid in knee-high mud. Mike \Joe Sup~;:rior' s Cut of the Year\ Gill and Jim \Big Ass Ham\ Kochan, a combined weight of 1 000+ pounds, also got in on the malicious acts of the day, including an impressive tackling of the entire opposing line at once. Jamie \I can fly!\ Leahy nearly scored on a beauti- ful handspring of off Union's own Will \I will' break you\ Hatch in a unique aerial display, but was ruled out ofbounds. Spe- cial thanks goes to George \I thought you meant stop by 9 AM '' Bazos for playing through his \pain.\ And now for the \B'; side third. Bill \This is a beard\ Ackerbauer, in his second game of the day, scored the only Union try in the \B\ third on a sweep right through the weak-side wing, scoring on instinct by div- ing into the tnud, sliding an esti- mated 24 feet past six opposing Raiders before scoring. ·Pike \ Sara just kicked my butt\ Mody, with his hard-hitting, often con- cussion-producing tackles, dis- played his. defensive talent, while the line celebrated the return of the fabled Angelo Bag-0'- Doughnuts. Matt \Damn it feels good to be a gangsta\ Lux also provided effective protection as the impending 15 attempted to penetrate the Union line. Due to an ill-timed water break, Colgate was able to sneak in a try, under the leadership of defecting Union rugger,, Mike \Come on Unio- I mean Colgate\ Gifford. The en- suing kick failed, and the score remajned tied at 5. Ui:iion improved its record to J.,.Q this weekend, and with a week off, should be in prime fonn for the tournament in Providence ConfinuedonpagelB

nntnr t£U5t5 The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Celebrating Our Bicentennial . - - - Volume CXXIV, Number XIX Schenectady, New York Famous Researchers Present Their Undergraduate Work by Adrian MacLean Omcordiensis Staff In celebration of the National Conference of Undergraduate Research (NCUR) a display has been created of Pulitzer and Nobel Prize winners' undergradu- ate research and cuiTent works. Students were primarily in charge of researching and con- tacting the selected peo,ple. · Roughly 240 letters were mailed . to request materials from the fa- mous researchers. Unfortunately the replies were not abundant, but there were approximately 30 re- sponses. Letter, pictures, books and scores were given for the dis- play. Seniors Marguerite Stimphil and Jill Bloomberg were respon- sible for choosing the letters and works for the display. The Pub- lic Relations office offered their technical assistance<under the di- rection ofPeter Blankman, Direc- tor ofPublic Relations. Ten months ago when Union was beginning their plans for NCUR. '95, these students and Blankman wanted to create something to make the confer- ence more than just presentations. That is when they began looking up famous researchers and prize winners in the library. \Undergraduate research can play a role in what you decide to do and, in many cases, it really has an impact on professional life,\ Blankman said. William Elden Balcom sent a copy of his first Violin Sonata, which he wrote in 1956 at the University of Washington. In 1984, Bolcom revised his under- graduate work, but he still sent the original for the display. Bolcom received the Pulitzer Prize in 1958 for his 12 New Etud({sjor Piano 1977-86. Cur- rently he is a Professor at the University ofMichigan School of Music. Forty-five years after his under- graduate research, John · Brademas had difficulty digging up his Harvard work. He wrote his honors thesis on \The Mexi- can Peasant Movement \which led to his doctoral dissertation at. Oxford University on the Anarchosyndicalist Movement in Spain from the Mid-1920's to the beginning of the Spanish Civil War in 1937. Brademas has won numerous awards, including the Ellis Island Medal of Honor and the Athenagoras Award for Hu- man Rights. He was also a Rhodes Scholar m 1954. Brademas's contribution to the display is his book entitled Wash- ington D.C._ to Washington Square. Dr. Edwin Krebs, Professor of Continued on page 4 April 20, 1995 Colleges Skew Statistics to Boost Ratings by Elizabeth DeKoven News Editor A recent article in The Wall Street Journal reported that colleges are altering their average SAT scores, acceptance rates and gradua- tion rates to College guidebooks in order to boost their ratings. The Journal discovered the fallacy by comparing the statistics re- ported to college's data-to-debt rating agencies and the statistics re- ported in guidebooks. Ahhough fudging statistics that are submitted to gull.kbouk~ is unethical, it is not illegal. Howt:ver. if a ...:nllege ~~ l:aught altering the statistics that an: submitted to a edit agt:nc 1e~. the college is VIOlating federal securities laws. Colby College in Waterville, Maim: jumped up five spacn 111 a guidebook repon as a result of what the: former Jireo..:tor of cummu nications, Edward Hershey, calls number \fudging\. In 1992, Colby jumped from 20th place in the rankings to 15th. The Wall Street Journal wmpared over 100 reporb to credit <~gcn­ cies and guiuebooks anJ founJ two Jozt:n ur more Jis..:rcpancic' In must cases, the credit agen~.:._y scores wen: lower than lhc guide- books. Several well respected colleges and universities were reported in the Journal as having been dishonest when submitting scores to the guidebooks. In order to increase their ratings, New York University excluded in their calculations the SAT scores of economically disadvantaged students who are participants in a state funded program that the Uni- versity offers. Manhattanville College, in Purchase, New York fol- lowed the same pattern as NYU. Boston University excluded the verbal SAT scores, but not the math SAT scores of over 350 international students in their reports to the guidebooks. The University justified their actions by stating that it is unfair to average in the verbal scores of international stu- dents for whom English is their second language. The New College of University of South Florida was rated as number one in the 1994 Money Magazine College Guide with an average SAT score of 1~96. However, it was discovered by the Journal that the college ·was boosting its ratings by cutting off the bottom six percent of their class in order to raise the SAT average by 40 points. Discrepancies in scores were also found in the reports submitted to guidebooks by Harvard University, Sarah Lawrence College and the Florida Institute of Technology. Several colleges also altered their acceptance rates in the reports submitted to guidebooks because institutions with low acceptance rates appea~ to be more selective and more impressive. Christian Brothers University in Memphis Tennessee reported to America's Best Colleges 1995 Guidebook that they accepted only Continued on page 3 Student Pl-otest Elicits Very Little Backlash by Martin Metz Concordiensis Staff Last Monday, at approximately I 2:30P.M., when most people sit down for lunch time, many Union students showed up to participate in the IFC-run protest. The stimu- lus for the event was the lack of communication l:)etween the ad- ministration and thestudents, and the new decision by the admin- istration requiring all students liv- ing on campus to participate in the school's meal plan. The idea of the protest generated a: great source of controversy because it was being held on an accepted students day. Basically, there were two schools of thought which surrounded the contro- versy. One feeling was that the protest should be held on a dif- ferent day because it would deter many accepted students from coming to Union and only serve to hurt the school. The other feel- ing was that it was a good way for the students to get the atten- tion ofthe administration, and that it would show accepted s~udents that Union students were enthu- siastic and cared about important issues surrounding the campus. Now that the protest has been carried out, what are people's feelings about it? In talking to Dean of Admissions Dan Lundquist and Dean Alford, the opinion of the administration con- cerning the protest seems to be positive. Dean Lundquist said that no visitor he came in contact with interpreted the protest as negative. In fact, one mother of an accepted student said that when she visited Hamilton, the students seemed to be apathetic, while the students at Union appeared to be more in- volved and enthusiastic. While both Dean Alford and Dean Lundquist wished that more Union students had shown up to protest the original budget cuts made by Pataki, Dean Lundquist said he was ''delighted that Union students have empowered them- selves to protest.\ More impor- tantly, the administration feltthat the protest was carried out in a positive manner that did not hurt the school but actually painted a more enthusiastic portrait of its students. They were nervous be- fore the protest took place be- cause they didn't know how it was going to be carried out. For example, several years ago many Union students carried out a pro- test by wearing T-shirts that had \Iwentto Union before it sucked\ printed on the front of them. However, while that was a nega- tive protest that probably did hurt the school, the IFC protest was a positive and responsible demon- stration. In This Issue ... News ·······~~·········• 2-4 Science ..•....•......•• 17 Op/Ed •••.•.•....... 5-10 Features ........... .u 18 NCUR .••••.••.•.• 11 ... 13 Arts ............... 0,. 19-20 Calendar ............. 14 Personals ............ 21 World News ........ 15 Campus Events ... 22 Business •..........•.. 16 Sports •.•.•...•... 23-24 ' '

. {Sltl)·::;· ·,.\.f4\'V~>·tar· Support. 9rqu;ps < dentiaJ and ·meet 6n·c following schedule: . . . . . . First Tuesday:· Etlis'.;l!nsp·ital Second Sund.3y·: :Q~Hevu.e.Hospitai~ Administration B1lildin.g:-t2?f(J Troy .. Sch'dy Rd., Schittecu\9'!1~ NY · .. · Second Wedne~~Y.:'RustieU Sage College, Sage .. H;!ll\rnlJJtg~~~}i~~l\ttu:JQr Womeq~ Troy~ :t-IY ... Tbird Tbnrstlttf\:.~~llfjan~ JiruihUc Library~· Ruorn\ .; . . ··• .· l&~;~~~-&tq1f~~v.;e., Albany.:N¥ •. Fourth Tht~:taa!:::)1(}ifrtWit1cls~ 8arataga~J'4Y• · - ~\. ,.·· :-;~;.,, .- '~-: ;·· ,';·'-·:_ .-:-., - = :_,.-_;Y:r'?=~:~~i~~~~\:~:- _tt~::~.:~::t~~'-:~-1:~:.. ~~- · ~>-:-- · ' . -:: ._: ~-: - __ ~ ·=-:: \-~t; :i}j:f:ii-:~--~-:-~ .. : .... ~-: ., The M~ch:anieal Engj~'\\eJriJI!g JJ1eplll~!ll1~~t,is,~c~nql~~lng;,a. Reappointment Review .. ofl~rofess.JJ~,A~n.}4 .. f\.~~~l.All niembersofr,the,:U:nion'0'0'}lege €omllltmit;y·lfa1llt44arwi1lh~her, . t-hing, scholarship or college set\:'ice ate encO,~tagedto :~:~;zt~~!t:~;~; . · .~p:~~~~~ 1 ,~~~,,~~f.~~;~~~~~enan<i~. • ;..,.;;,' ·~,; >. ... • ~ ' J . ' • • ·- , • < Campus News_ \ ·Union College· Campus Safety Report DATE/TIME LOCATION TUESDAY • .APRIL 11. 1995: 12:08 AM Edwards House 1:09AM Huntley Lane 5:47PM Fox Basement 11:30 PM Davidson WEDNESDA. Y. APRIL 12, 199S: lr2: 15 AM South College 3:28AM Edwards House 1:30PM Raymond area 1:55PM Raymond/Potter Lot THURSDAY. APRIL 13, '1995: 10:05 AM South College 2:00PM > Alexander Lane 5:52PM Catnptts Grounds Fraternity 8:03PM . ; Fr-aternity ll:IJ PM Library Field an:a FRIDAY. APRIL 14. 1995: 12:07 AM Yulman Theater SATURDAY. APRIL 15. 1995: 2:56 AM Fox Hall 3:10AM 9:40AM 11:00 AM 3:47PM 6:31PM 9:52PM FOx North College Center Davidson Memorial Chapel Davidson South College SUNDAY. APRIL 16,1995: 2:11AM Fox South 4:10AM Davidson 3:30PM Chi Psi Lot 10:45 PM Fox House MONDAY, APRIL 17, 1995: 1:32AM South Terrace Lat'le 3:18AM Administration Lot 2:30PM Administration Lot 3:10PM College Center 4:34PM South College 4:37PM Chester Arthur 4:56PM West College 7:43PM Psi Upsil<in ll:OOPM Quiet Road INCIDENT VANDALISM: Windows-broken. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Smdent lost control of vehicle and drove off the roadway. Damage to car and minor property damage. No personal injury . FIRE ALARM: Causeundete~mined. Alert and immediate reset. Electricians advised. HARASSMENT: Recurrent hang-tip calls. HARASSMENT: Stildent alleges hostile interaction with another student. FIRE ALARM: Smoke detector in basement activated. No Cause evidettt. Electricians advised; TRESPASS: Illegalttse of dumpster by visitor; Witness provided description, Invalid plate description. Unabl_e to detennine suspect from description provided. VANDALISM: Exterior side mirror broken off of student's car. VANDALISM: Hinge pins removed from door. Door left open creating a securityhazarcl for residents. . PARKING VIOLATION: Student using parking decal that 1md been reported lost .. Conduct Charges tiled. ANIMAL; Student's dog roaming campus !Jnleashed and unattetided. Conduct Charges filed. ·· HARASSMENT: Staffniember hai·assed by st~dent-s. Conduct Charges filed. STUDENT RELATIONS: Colrtplaiot regarding staff member's ·conduct and process while perf1:1.nning· campti~ fire drill. PARKING VIOLATION: Student's vehicl¢ parked on: grass near flagpole. Ve1licle immobilized. Turned out to be a pledging p'rank . FIRE ALARM: False fire alann. Staff member accidentally · activated a pull oox .. FIRE ALARM: Caused by bumed food. Odqr evident in 2nd and 3rd floor halls. Unable to locate source. LIFE S'A~ETY ViOLATION: Fire extinguisher found discharged. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. SECURITY HAZARD: Entry doors not secured. Building being accessed prior to opening hour. THEFT: RA's room key stolen. Lock cores changed. VANDALISM: Window broken. TRESPASS: Two visitors, previously advised off·campus, retumed. Campus Safety identified suspects, contacted SPD and arrested them for trespass. MINOR FIRE: Scorch marks on door. Appears tluit papers were set afire. No datnage or injury reported. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Window broken by accident. Cause detennined. VANDALISM/LI'FE SAFETY VIOLATION: Smoke detector on 2nd floor North damaged, also liulletin board damaged and debris strewn around hallway. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. THEFT: License plates stolen from five cars parked in lot. Plates located the following day by student One still missing. HARASSMENT: Student being harassed by persistent suitor. Unwanted recurrent phone calls. VANDALISM: Light pole pushed over and damaged. THEFTN ANDALISM: Student's car forcibly entered by breaking vent window. Stereo and numerous CD's stolen. SPD contacted. THEFT: License plate stolen from staffmember's car. Theft occtirred over weekend. TRESPASS: Visitor who had been advised off campus was observed in the College Center. No untoward behavior displayed. Visitor warned off campus and advised that future presence on campus would result in arrest. SAFETY HAZARD: Health/sanitary concems .. .3rd floor lounge. Tobacco spitting on walls and floors. SECURITY HAZARD: Exterior doors locks being neutralized and doors propped open. Secttrity hazard for residents. Life Safety Violation Notice .filed. MINOR FIRE: Notice posted on southside stairwell door set afire. No injury reported, scorch marks ort door. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Tilree broken window panes. Cause of damage undetermined. MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT: Student's parked vehicle struck and datnaged by a backing vehicle. Vehicle left scene without reporting the accident. Witness left identification of vehicle. Investigation to identify suspect under way.

Campus News Science Professor Designs Program for Local School Professor Bucinellofthe Meclmnical Engineering Department (photo by Deborah Proper/TC). by Bhavani Meduri Concordiensis Staff Professor Ronald Bucinell has done a wonderful service for both the children of Schenectady and the future of scientific research. Bucinell has begun a project which uses a hands-on ap- proach to teaching science at the local Elmer A venue El- ementary School in the hopes of showing young students that science is not just rote exercises in memorization but that it is also fun and interest- ing. The goal ofthe project is to show young children the positive aspects of science be- fore negative stereotypes are formed. According to studies done by the National Science Foun- dation, these stereotypes are typically formed before chil- dren reach junior high school. The implications that stem from these studies are very serious. Bucinell feels that a majority of the American people know \little about the benefits of science\ and that this continual ignorance and disinterest in one of the most diverse disciplines in the world may have a severe negative impact on the future of scientific exploration. These problems were pre- sented to Bucinell and his coJ.,. leagues at an educational re- treat in Huntsville, Alabama last summer. The retreat at- tracted various educators and scientists who came together to discuss education and its impact on the future of scien- tific research. It was here that Bucinell first heard of the pi- lot programs being instituted at various elementary schools throughout Alabama. The suc- cess rate of these programs was impressive. Although statis- tics from study to study vary, it was obvious that a greater ma- jority of students who were exposed to such science pro- grams at a young age were those who continued expressing an in- terest in the sciences throughout their years in high school. Upon his return to Schenectady, Bucinell set out to begin a project modeled after a pilot program in progres~ at the elementary school in Huntsville. He spoke of his idea to the .prin- cipal at Elmer Ave. and together they made plans to make the project a reality. In this battle, funding was the first hurdle that had to be over- come. Elmer Ave. was only al- lotted four thousand dollars by the school district to for the cre- ation of such pilot programs. This amount was barely enough to get the program up and run- ning. However, its success this year has convinced the federal government to allot a larger amount of money for the exten- sion of this program to other schools in Schenectady. Bucinell credits Union College's Profes- sor Allen forhelping to write the grant that resulted in this increase in funds for next year. Bucinell also wanted the sup- port of the teachers who would be involved in the project. He found this support in a group that he describes as \phenomenal.\ They accepted their assignment with great enthusiasm. Training became an issue that was solved with the help of parent volun- teerswho were in the technologi- . cal field. Their guidance was and still is instrumental in making the project a success. The program was designed to target first and third graders at Elmer Ave. Three of the four modules designed by the Na- tional Science Foundation were chosen for each grade. These were in the areas of the Life ' Physical, and Earth Sciences. The first graders experimented with Organisms, Balls and Ramps, and Weather time and the third graders learned about Plant Growth, Sound, and Chemicals. The main focus of the program was tot each students to make observations and under- stand the objective ofthe experi- ments they were performing in the classroom. For the most part, teachers were present only to su- pervise and guide. The students were allowed to work together and experiment themselves. As can be expected, such a hands on approach requires a great deal of adult supervision. It was beyond the capacity of teachers to alone provide this guidance. This is where Union College students came into the picture. Bucinell recruited stu- dents from the Mechanical En- gineering, Biology, and Chemis- try clubs to volunteer their time, a minimum of one hour per week, to show the kids how to perform simple experiments. Their involvement in this project was no small task. Because stu- dents tend to get attached to their mentors, these students had to commit their time and energy for an entire term. Bucinell has noth- ing but high praise for their in- volvement in the project. They went and extra mile than what was expected of them and Bucinell feels that their partici- pation will have \significant ef- fect on the future ofthis commu- nity.\ The Union College students who dedicated themselves this year to the success of this pro- gram are: Laura Buezez, Melissa Chaikin, Corinne Devoe, Carmen McMurtry, Carolyn Miller, Nick Neri, Jim Pearson, Doug Robertson, Brian Smith, Sue Weldon; and Kira Sobczak. Write For News Call Liz a .At X571 0 The Concordiensis • April 20, 1995 • Page 3 Accepted Students Day a Success This past Monday, accepted students toured the campus, including the newly renovated Nott Memorial on Prospective Student Day (photo hy Laurel Ruma/TC). Cruz Speaks in Celebration of Latino Heritage by Gary DiStefano Contributing Writer Miriam Cruz, a noted Puerto Rican Scholar, gave a lecture in the college center auditorium on Wednesday night. Her lecture was part of the month long cel- ebration of Latino heritage. The discussion was centered around Cruz's views on the future of Puerto Rico and the· importance of coalition among minorities. Cruz was born in Puerto Rico. She was educated, attended col- lege and became an English teacher there. She then moved from Puerto Rico to the US, where she lived in Chicago. There Cruz became an advocate for both Hispanic and women's issues. As time progressed, she became the Deputy Assistant for Hispanic Affairs under Jimmy Carter and was the founder of many equal rights organizations. Cruz has very deep sentiments about Puerto Rico: she has peti- tioned for it's independence, tes- tified before Congress, and has meet with many diplomats re- garding this subject. In 1976, then Presidential Candidate JimmyCarter, asked Cruz to dis- cuss with him her feelings on not only the issue concerning Puerto Rico, but the entire Hispanic and Latino population. She recom- mended three areas that could be improved upon: immigration, bi- lingual education, and Panama- nian independence. Cruz felt that the only way that progress could be made is through coalition. She advised anyone seeking reform to combine forces and work as one unit with a com- mon goal. Cruz felt that if groups separate and fight for individual rights that \crumbs\ oflegislation and refonn will come. If we all work together there will be great positive changes made not only for the Hispanics, but also for Latinos, women, Africans, Asians, or whatever group is seeking rights. Furthermore, ac- cording to Cruz, reform can only come about if these groups go collectively to the ballot box and vote . Puerto Rican independence is just one ofthe issues that Miriam Cruz supports. Cruz is a sup- porter of Affirmative Action, she feels that it puts everyone on the same level. Welfare reform is another issue~ she feels that changes should not just come to the unemployed and impover- ished. She feels that the govern- ment should cut it's payments to the farmers and other businesses that receive aid. Cruz feels that the health care \industry\ should be changed so that it is not cen- tered around profit, but rather aid- ing the sick.

Page 4 • April20, 19?5 • The Concordiensis Editors of Gay Magazine Spoke OUT by Gary DiStefano Contributing Writer Last Thursday, Sara Petit and Michael Goff, editors of OUT magazine, presented a colorful slide show that depicted the gay and lesbian community in every- day life. The slide show pre- sented candid and revealing slides taken by some oftoday's leading photographers .. The pre- sentation was an attempt to en- lighten both heterosexuals and homosexuals about the gay and lesbian community. Petit and Goff are both college graduates. Petit received her BA from Yale University. While there she was amemberofvari- ous gay and lesbian rights. orga- nizations. She attempted to change the typical \Yallie\ mindset, which was very conser:- vative and homophobic. Goff received his BA from Stanford University. After graduation he worked on the staff of OUT, a gay and lesbian news letter. The two speakers are the founding members of OUT. This publi- cation is now three years old, and the largest magazine of its kind in circulation. The two speakers were very vocal about their opinions on the issue of gays and lesbians. Michael Goff stated that the gay society can not be defined by just one characteristic, .. we are all not just hairdressers.\ He feels that the gay population can be de- fined by two categories: those who feel that their sexuality does not make them different from anyone else and those who feel as though gays are an individual g~;oup in society. Goff felt that both ofthese opinions could de- scribe the gay population be- cause, as with heterosexuals, no two people are the same. There- fore, as Goff put it, a gay person can be characterized as either a \drag-queen\ or a \rugby- player\. Petit added that there has been great progress among the gay and lesbian population. in recent years. She feels that it . has become more sociably ac- ceptable for a person to \come out of the closet\. As she stated, in the 1970's a person would re- fer to themselves as being bi- sexHal ifhe or she was \outed\. The two of tl1em felt that the more celebrities that come out about their sexuality, the more socially acceptable it will be- come. The slide show, which was the highlight ofthe presentation, de- picted gays demonstrating at Stone WaH, and gays and lesbi- ans in the New York Philhar- monic. The point of the slide show was to prove that homo- sexual people are not easily de- finable. Since the 1970's thou- sands of gays and lesbians have \come out ofthe closet.\ They all are similar in some ways and vastly different in others. This slide show not only showed how similar they are to the rest of so- ciety, but also how vastly differ- ent they are. One major point expressed in the slide show was that gays and lesbians want to have the same rights as hetero- sexuals. Their greatest hope is that one day they will be ac- cepted for themselves For as one elderly woman expressed on a sign, \the closet is a horrible place to die.\ Interested in developing your Leadership Skills in Human Relations? Become a PEER FACILITATOR ** Learn more about communication in relationships, sexuality sex-role stereotypes, acquaintance, etc. **Put on workshops to facilitate discussion on these topics among students. Qualifications for Peer Facilitators: **Be a full time student at Union College during the year of participation. **Have the ability to speak to large groups, to listen effectively, and relate to the concerns and perspectives of others. To Apply: Pick up an application at the College Center Info Booth or the Dean of Students Office. Turn it in to the Dean's Office by May 1, and sign up for an interview. Campus News Colleges Caught in Fraudulent Activity Cont ... 59% of the Freshmen that ap- plied; however, the College re- ported to their credit agency that they accepted 73% of their ap- plicants. Christian Brothers Uni- versity was not able to offer the Journal an explanation as to why the scores were different. Bard College also submitted false acceptance rates to the guidebooks. US News reported that the College accepted only 44% of their applicants,. but Bard reported to their credit agency that they accepted 62.6% of their applicants. Other colleges that were dis- covered as having lowered their acceptance rates for the benefit of increasing their ratings were Wesleyan University, Kent States University and DePaul Univer· sity. Daniel Lundquist, Union College's Dean of Admissions said that he was glad that the col- leges that altered their statistics to benefit their ratings were \smoked out\. \I am vexed to no end that [Union's] equals have spin. doc- tors working on public numbers to look better,\ said Lundquist. \Union's played it straight and Union is being vindicated.\ High ratings in guidebooks are important to all colleges and universities, and to their advan- tage,. the statistics that are re- ported totheguidebooks are self.:. reported by the educational insti- tQtions themselves. Guidebooks like US News,, ~arons, Money and Petersons reported that ar- though they try to check all facts before going to press, most of the magazines were unaware that col- leges have to report any data to the debt agencies. For the future, US News told The Wall Street Journal that they will compare the statistics that they are given with the ·statistics g,iven to the credit agencies. ANSWERS TO THE 10 MOST FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS ABOUT GRADUATION! 1. There is no limit to the number of guests you may invite and bring to Commencement (tickets not required). 2 Once your graduation fee is paid, pick-up caps and gowns at the bookstore May 15 - June 10, 1995 (the booksore closes at 4·30 p m on the 1Oth). 3 Commencement Exercises begin at 1 o·oo o'clock Sunday morning, June 11, 1995, in Library Plaza, rain or shine. 4 Graduates report to Alexander Field to form the procession at 8:30 the morning of Commencement. 5. Don't miss the Class of 1995 p1cmc, followed by a band concert and laser show on Fnday evening, June 9th. No charge. Look for details in your mail soon. 6. All seniors and your families are invited to be guests of the College at a dinner honoring you, the Class of 1995, followed by an outdoor (weather permitting) dance on Saturday evening, June 10th. No charge. Look for invitations in your mail soon. 7. Other Commencement Weekend activities include a Commencement Concert of\Music for a Celebration\ the President's Reception, and the Baccalaureate Commemoration on Saturday afternoon, June 1Oth. Look for details in your mail soon. 8. For further ififortnation contact Mrs. Judy Ludwig in the Dean of Faculty's Office, x6010. 9. Once your graduation fee is paid, pick-up caps and gowns at the bookstore May 15 - June 10, 1995 (the booksore closes at 4:30p.m. on the lOth). I 0. There is no limit to the number of guests you may invite and bring to Commencement (tickets not required). CUR Exhibit Continu.edfrompagel Biochemistry and Pharmacol- ogy at the University of Wash- ington in Seattle, submitted a copy of his undergraduate the- sis, \A Study ofthe Structures of the products from Cinnamalaniline and Methyl Acetyylenedicarboxylate.\ H.e received his A.B. degree from the University of lll inois in 1940 and later won the Nobel ogy in 1972. The Handbook of Chemistry and Physics 44th Student Edition was sent by Phillip Allen Sharp. In 1993, Sharp received the Nobel Prize in Physiology ofMedicine; the book was his text throughout his undergraduate years at Union in Kentucky. He said that the textbook was fascinating and still serves as one of his resources. Dartmouth Graduate, donated his senior thesis in Sociology entitled \The Fair Housing Committee of the Chathams: A Study of a Sodal Action Group.\ In 1986, Shipler re- ceived the Pulitzer Prize in gen- eral nonfiction for i:lis book . Arab and Jew. He is a writer for The New York Times, corre- spondent and author.

OP/ED Tlu Student Newspaper of U11ion College Since 18 77 Scllenectady 1 s Oldest Newspaper Diana Sedita EDITOR Elizabeth I>eKoven NEWS EDITOR Alexis Leist FEATURES EDITOR Suzanne Robinson Leena. Mankad ARTS EDITORS Rick Lederer PHOTO EDITOR Stephanie Kuehn COPY EDITOR Ken Berman Jason Starr SPORTS EDITORS Mathew Sandler WORLD NEWS EDITOR Adam Richman LAYOUT EDITOR Lisa Lemoi EXECUTIVE EDITOR Dennis Popeo SCIENCE EDITOR Alex Shapiro LIVING EDITOR Brett Saunders COMPUTER MANAGER Jared Richman CARTOONIST Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR Tony LaVecchia OPINIONS EDITOR Alex .Johnson BUSINESS EDITOR PHOTOGRAPHERS: Scott Druckemiller, Laurel Ruma, Deborah Proper, Laurie Kirschner. STAFF: Emily Battis, Vi nod Dasa, Jeff Ellen, Sarah Ruth Evans, Marc Foster, Nalini Gupta, Mike Leding, Adrian MacLean, Martin Metz, Bharat Navani, Bhavani Meduri, Larry Paska, Billy Shakos, Shveta Srivastava, , Rawson Thurber, Carrie Wheeler, lllisa Wood. The Concordiensis · April20, 1995 · Page 5 . . · EDITORIAL Marriott Was Here on a 'Trial Basis: Who Knew? In this issue of The Concordiensis, there are numerous Letters to the Editor regarding the Meal Plan. There might be one other piece of information the Union College community may not be aware of.. .Marriott was to be here at Union on a trial basis. When the four students were chosen to represent the other 2,000 or so students, they had only the interests of their fellow classmates in mind when they originally voted against the privatization proposaL This proposal was passed only under certain stipulations that were made abundantly clear to the administration. As Nate Coffin wrote in his Letter to the Editor in the April 13th issue of the Concordy, \the student representatives fought diligently for four specific demands, quality maintenance, student input, price monitoring, and employee satisfaction assessment.\ As the fiscal year of 1994- 1995 came to a close, these student representatives had the responsibility to complete the assessment of Marriott and, in effect, determine whether or not Marriott would continue to serve the Union College campus. Well, th.ere certainly was no shortage of student and employee input. So what was missing? Those student representatives' assessment and their responsibility to represent the campus community. Now that the budget for the fiscal year 1995-1996 is completed, it is a sure thing that Marriott will be here for another year, despite numerous protests by members of Union CoHege. It is the job of every student representative to communicate proposals or information that will greatly affect the Union College campus. It was those four students' responsibility to infonn the College community that Marriott was only here on a trial basis. They also should have completed their assessment they originally f()ught for. Please do not view this editorial as a personal attack. This is an editorial...an opinion. It is evident from the surplus of letters received this week that this issue is very important to students. The editorial board of The Concordiensis would welcome any further information or opinions on this ISSUe. The Mandatory Meal-Plan: A New Perspective By Tony LaVecchia Opinions Editor One may ask the question, how many columns on the mandatory meal plan can one person write? The answer of course, from a stubborn I ittle Italian columnist is as many as it takes. This week I will look at the issue from a slightly different perspective. It seems inevitable that in one way or another, Greeks will have to pay more to eat next year. This seems to be a mute point, and al- though I don't like anyone stick- ing their hand in my pocket, in this case I'm not entirely opposed to paying my fair share. It seems that the administration and members of the Greek com- munity both agree that Greeks should pay the same amount to the school through their meal plans as independents. Because of this I feel that there is then room for a compromise. I think at this point it is too late for students to look for a complete roll back of the administration's decision. It's been passed into the budget and is in effect going to take place in one fonn or another. What we must fight for as a student body then is some fonn of compromise. Ideally, we need to find a way to allow Greeks to pay more money into the system while at the same time allowing them to still eat their traditional family style meals together. I think that no matter what happens, we should not back down from this demand. Greeks should not be forced to change the nature of their I ives, and shoulCl not be forced to go on the school meal plans. I have heard many compromise plans being discussed. I have heard many ideas that would try to allow Greek houses to still eat together and have their kitchens opened while still contributing their fair share into the campus revenues. Some suggest that Greeks should be forced to buy their food through Marriot and then prepare it themselves. I find this plan to be unacceptable. This would do two things .. First, it would force us away from the family style high quality meals we now en- joy and secondly it would take money out of the hands of local business owners and transplant it into Marriofs corporate coffers. Another plan I've heard being discussed would allow Greeks to pick up food from the kitchens and have them eat together in their own houses. This plan too seems unacceptable. I don't think we should be forced to drag Marriofs industrial food back to our houses when we are more thim capable of conveniently pre- paring our own meals. That preparation and consequential cooperation is part of our tradi- tion and helps the unity of our organizations. The one plan I've heard dis- cussed that does seem acceptable would allow us to mait1tain our kitchens and prepare our meals while still contributing money to the schools operation. Under the plan I've heard discussed, Greeks would pay in between $700 and $750 to the school at the begin- ning of each term, and then they would be rebated between $500 and $550 toward their own meals and kitchen costs. Although this plan would single out Greeks fi- nancially, it would simply bring our contribution to the schools through the meal plan up to the current level that independents pay. To me this compromise is acceptable and I think that we will as a united student body be able to reach such a compromise with the administration. IF we do re- ceive this compromise, I feel that we can all be proud that our unity, perseverance, and collective ef- forts have won us a substantial victory. I suppose some will criticize me for giving in too easily. They may argue that I should have a firmer stand and renounce all compro- mises. Although that is an admi- rable position, it is not the most intelligent. By refusing to com- promise, we would in fact be seal- ing the Greeks fate to eat in West and upper class next year. By compromising we will at least be able to eat quality food with our closest friends. Under this com- promise, independents will also not have to deal with the added inconvenience of overcrowding in the dining halls. Independents will also be able to rest firm in the belief that as a student body~ we have become more united and powerful as a resultofthe whole debate. Others will argue that I am be- ing unfair. After all why should only members of Greek houses be allowed to opt out of meal plans and receive a rebate? To this I re- spond that their our certain ad- vantages and disadvantages to Greek life for everyone. One of the advantages is that we ar:e able to eat together and prepare our own food. One aspect that should be kept in mind, however, is that in order to receive this benefit, we as Greeks have the added respon- sibility of operating and maintain our kitchens. Believe me, clean- ing our kitchens and houses is no small job, and one we do not take lightly. My point is that just be- cause Greeks have an advantage in one aspect of life, that advan- tage is not inherently unfair to other students because Greek life holds disadvantages too. Because of this it is a personal decision for each student to decide whether or not Greek life is for them. Through our participation, we have turned around the nature of a decision many viewed to be written in stone. I encourage ev- eryone who has participated in protes~s in the past to remain united in the future. By remain- ing united and powerful as a stu- dent body, we will not only force the administration to compromise on this issue, we will also increase student participation in future de- cision making. Attention all students!! Applications for committee positions for 1995-6 are now available in the Student Activities Office, CC408. Applications must be turned in to Student Activities by 4:30 pm on Friday, May 19th. Each committee application must be accompanied by a separate essay. You may apply for as many positions as you like. Please add whether you intend to go on a term abroad. If you have any questions, please contact Elissa D. Hecker at 346-9.140.

Page 6 • Apri120, 1995• The Concordiensis OP/ED For the Record • • • In Response to Allegations of Slander by David Levine Concordiensis Staff A s a journalist and fonner editor- in-chief of The Concordiensis, I would like to think that articles appearing under my by-line uphold jour- nalistic ethics and standards. During my four years at Union, over 150 of my articles and opinions have appeared on the pages of the student newspaper. Not once have my articles been attacked for lack of accu- racy. I have never been forced to defend myself against charges of slander, and only on a couple ofoccasions have people com- pletely misinterpreted the gist of my opin- ions. It is therefore surprising that last week's response by the Student Forum President levied charges of slander. Whatever the case may be, these four students did not inform the student body about what was discussed at the.se meetings .. · I think even Mr. Coffin would agree that the committee erred in this regard .. Regardless, the four students did vote 4-0 in favor of privatization. Slander, according to Webster's Third New International Dictionary, is defined as the \utterance of false charges or m isrep- resentations which defame and damage reputation.\ When the venerable New York Times writes an editorial questioning the voting tendencies of politicians, is that considered slander? Since when is print- ing how public officials vote slanderous? Secondly, while the privatization vote might be embarrassing to those involved, the OI>inion did not willfully defame anyone's character. Implicitly, it is almost impossible for any op-ed piece to be slanderous. Opin- ions are, by definition, opinionated. They are not presented as straight news, or they would appear i\n another section of the ne-wspaper. There are at least two sides to each story (even if the facts are undis- pttted). I will say this. President Hull only took issue (from the standpoint of factual correctness) with two words in the opin- ion. He disputed whathemay(ormaynot) have said during a telephone conversation with me. Did he tell me that the rumors C()nceming the administration's plan (de- cision)aboutthe Greek meal plan were 'lu- constituents before rendering decisions on issues that will greatly alter campus life? Every person serving on the Student Fo- rum promised to enhance the lines of com- munication between the administration and the student body. The facts about how little some members of this year's Forum have done to bridge the chasm are alarm- ing.\ Clearing tile Record First, I never made the \egregious error of generalizing that all members of the stu- dent government may be typified as 'elit- ist' and 'egotistical.\' The title specifically implicated only some members ofthe Fo- rum in the discussion; those members who have not actively and publicly protested the administration's policy of entrusting them to make decisions on behalf of the students. Additionally, while I may be a part of a group that through several members pro- motes an elitist system, I am not an elitist because I have fought passionately against the system, a claim thateven Roger Hull could substantiate. I also take issue with Mr. Coffin's claim that all criticism concerning the voting ten- dencies of Forum members should be fil- tered through him. The two students who sit on the Board of Trustees, and two of the three members of the Planning and Pri- orities Committee were not appointed to their posts by the Student Forum President. Rather, they were elected to the Student .ings. I think even Mr. Coffin would agree that the committee erred in this regard. Regardless, the four students did vote 4-0' in favor ofpri·vatization. The covert vote only became public knowledge because President HuH proclaimed that his commit- tee unanimously approved privatization at a meeting that was held to present the de- cision to Dining Services workers. In last week'sletter, Mr. Coffin defends the four students, claiming that I should have noted in my article \how the student representatives fought diligently for four specific demands (quality maintenance, student input, price monitoring, and em- ployee satisfaction assessment) and how these four demands were agreed to.\ No- body on this year's Forum, except for the three remaining students from the commit- tee, had any idea that these reso 1 utions were proposed and agreed upon. In fact these individuals failed to infonn anyone on this campus about these provisions. Exactly who should have informed students last year? Atlastweek'sForum meeting, mem- bers of the Forum became aware for the first time that it was within our power to reqe~est Marriott's dismissal ifthe company failed to meet the four demands that these students worked so diligently for. The mere fact that these students did noteven make an eff0rt to share the enormous task of checking Marriott's power with other stu- dents is indicative of their elitist tenden- cies. The fact that they did not carry out The fact that my main contentions were so blatantly ignored further indicates the horrific nature of the current system. I am also rather distraught that the letter was addressed to me, and not the student body. I always though it was the responsibility of the Forum President. to discuss student concerns by addressing the student body. dicrous and unsubstantiated.' I para- pl'lrased the general tone of our conversa- tion, and that's why I didn't place quotes ar()und those words. Aside from this dis- tinction, he merely stipulated that he dis- agreed with my opinion. How could any literate person misinter- pretwhat was presented? In any well writ- ten article, the title(s) and introductory paragraph generally give the reader a fair indication of the author's contentions. If the article flows naturally, the opinions should be intertwined with substantiating evidence, and the main points of the piece Sl10uld be rehashed in the article's conclu- sion. Though the opinion I wrote for the April 6 issue of The Concordiensis is admittedly far from perfect, I meticulously wrote, ed- ited, and reviewed the article to ensure that my main contentions would be abundantly clear to any reader. From the subtitle, \It's Time for Some Student F arum Leaders to Start Taking Re- S!>onsibility for Their Actions (Or Lack of),\ through the first paragraph (printed below), through the examples cited in the body of the article, and once again in the conclu- sion, it would appear as though I com- mented on how I ittle some members of this year's Forum have done to forge an era of communication between the administration and the student body. Tire first paragraph \Is it too much to expect that elected stu- dent politicians seek the assistance oftheir F arum independently. Likewise, these members should not vote in a manner that is necessarily consistent with the Forum President's personal or political beliefs. This would defeat the whole purpose of having independent elections. The most appalling aspect oflast week's opinion is the accusation of slander and the contention that my article is filled \with a number of start! ing inaccuracies and mis- representations.\ First and foremost, I was present at the so-called Town Meeting, during which students vehemently voiced their opposition to the administration's privatization plan. You are right Mr. Cof- fin, my recollection is uncanny. I even re- call publicly voicing my opposition about the methods the administration used in bringing the issue to the table. I also had a rather in-depth discussion with President Hull after the meeting, during which I once again discussed the administration's im- peccable planning. The letter is absolutely correct in assert- ing that 1 was not present at the individual meetings between President Hull and the four students Dr. Hull appointed to the stu- dent decisioncommittee. It is truly unfor- tunate that roughly 1950 other students on campus were not invited to these meetings, and that these meetings took place (not surprisingly) after the student newspaper published its last issue for the academic year. Whatever the case may be, these four students did not inform the student body about what was discussed at these meet· the assessment in time to consider remov- ing Marriott next year is indicative that these students did not follow through on their responsibilities as elected officers. The facts are the facts. Oddly, they do not lie. Exactly what has the Student Forum done to promote the flow of information and opinions between the students and the administration? In last week's opinion, Coffin says that he was \well aware at the time that the Forum agreed to the closed door session that such an agreement would in no way restrict the eventual flow of in- formation to the students.\ Is not restrict- ing the eventual flow of information tanta- mount to promoting the flow of infonna- tion and opinions? Obviously not. It is the responsibility of student leaders to fight for the freedom to disperse infonna- tion. While the information did eventually \get out,\ as Mr. Coffin describes, this only occurred because The. Concordiensis de- cided to publish a 1Oth week issue, not because the Forum made any kind of con- certed .effort to inform the student body. The letter asserts that \the act of inform- ing them [the student body] would have been a mere formality.\ It's a fonnality that the Forum never pursued. Additionally, I never said that members ofthe Forum didn't vocally represent their opinions to the President concerning the issue. I was appalled that members didn't vocally present the opinion that they had a hardtime voicing consen~us student in- put without consulting their peers. By not telling the administration to wait for stu- dent input, someForum'leaders did, in es- sence, succumb to the administration. Furthennore, while the mere fact that a student agrees with an administrational decisiol'l doesnotprovethey are in cahoots with the administratiolil, the fact that they have done a~solutely nothing to gauge student sentiment, and therefore are reck- lessly giving the administration false in· formation concerning students' collective mettle with regards to these issues, proves that they are 'gift wrapping' stuclent ap- provaL When administrators have asked for my opinion, I have consistently pref- aced any remarks with \What I think [on the issue] really doesn'tmatter.\ President Hull told me that he felt it was ironic that I agreed that all students should pay the same amount, yeti am giving Greeks addi- tional incentives to protest the decision. I am no Greek lover, and what angers me isn't that the decision may hurt the Greeks, but rather that such a pertinent issue concern- ing student life was never adequately dis- cussed in public.· With respect to the issue of representa- tion, I agree that the administration did not ·base its entire decision on Mr. Coffin's opin- ion. However, by not encouraging mass student protests and by not calling a meet- ing where students could publicly voice their opinions to the President, some mem- bers of the Forum were placing an addi- tional premium on their personal opinions. I can say without reservation that I am not oneofthem. Mr. Coffin's letter stipulated that he has; does, and will continue to encourage the student body to express its opinions. In this regard, actions speak louder than words. The Student Forum has not called for a single Town Meeting this academic year. Last night's Cross Talk was called by President Hull in response to students' frustrations. To say that I have not presented my opin- ions concerning what we, as an organiza- tion, were doing to gauge student senti- ment publicly is ludicrous. I dare you to find a more outspoken critic ofthe current system. I am truly upset the opinion does not acknowledge that some members of the Fo- rum have erred in dealing with the issue of communication between the administration and the student body. The fact that my main contentions were so blatantly ignored further indicates the horrific nature of the current system. I am also rather distraught that the letter was addressed to me, and not the student body. I always though it was the responsibility of the Forum Presi- dent to discuss student concerns by ad- dressing the student body. Honestly, I am surprised and encouraged that my original article generated such a great response. I hope that it will help peop I e to ask provocative questions at the upcoming Student Forum debates. I also hope that this year's Forum will use this prod, as Mr. Coffin puts it, to motivate it- self into action. I urge students to consid- ers running for the many Forum positions. Stay active and involved. The administra- tion will continue to take students for granted until many students construc- tively, and passionately oppose their deci- sion-making tactics.

OP/ED LIGHTING. A FIRE UNDER THE STUDENT FORUM ' Jl \'-. '( l The Concordiensis · April 20, 1995 · Page 7 ''THANK 'b) ••• ~CR JUS\ S\lt\1\ A PROD.,., -NATE CO FFl N , --- ·-- .:· · -- • · . LETTERS -._ - -_ -- - • --- -- -_ - _-.- ._ - _- .. -. - __ 'I> • ! • ' ·~· • • > • ' )o • ' • • • • • • > • • ' ' • I ' .: < • • ' ' ' •, WHOM THE CAP FITS ••• \ ... some wilf.hate you Pretend they lave you, now. Then behind they try to eliminate . You. But who Jah bless. no one curse. Thank God. we 'repast the worse Hypocrites and parasites. Will come up and take a bite. And if your night should turn to Day. A lot ofpeop/e.would run away. Who the stock fit Let them wear it. Who the cap fit. let them wear it. \ Robert Nesta Marley from \Who the Cap Fit\@ 1976 This is in response to the article sent in by Nate Coffin last week. In his Declaration of Innocence, he eloquently stated his reasons for the styles and manner in which the school reached their decision in regards to the privatization is- sue. However, Nate was as close to Dave Levine's point as the nearest cosmos. Dave Levine specifically ex- pressed his concern that SOME Student Forum members are elit- ist and egotistical. They are a re- flection of the ideologies of the administration and students' con- cerns are rarely pondered by that same group. My question to Nate is, where did Dave go wrong? Is there anything that he said that was far from the truth? I congratulate Dave for an ad- mirable form of work (You too Jared. That cartoon was very hu- morous but the only thing miss- ing was a leash around the dog's neck). Dave reported the facts and since he did not succumb to administrative pressures like some spineless individuals, he's looked upon with a scornful eye by the same peopl~ who pr~cipi­ tated such a situation .I can iden- tify very strongly with Dave's points. In lieu ofNate delivering to the student body the exact de- tails of the matters at hand, he had the nerve to state tbat Dave's statements were unprofessional and needed clarification. \Nate to the rescue and with an'S' on his chest.\ My, My, My, it seems that Dave rocked the political boat a bit too much and to combat his statements, some individuals have created a de- ception that alters the reality of such a precarious situation. Nate doesn't realize that upon reacting the way that he did, he has just reinforced Dave's points. \Oh what a tangled web we weave.\ Now, since Nate is such a de- voted and loyal fan of the ad- ministration, let me refresh his memory by taking a mental journey with him. Out of nowhere last year, the school proposed the idea of privatization in its Dining Ser- vices. Prior to such a maneu- ver, rumors were circulating the school about the same issue. Hull was even asked by The Concordiensis whether such words were true but he clearly denied it (the infamous skills of a lawyer). A couple of weeks before finals that same year, Hull met with the staff of the Dining Services staff and pro- posed the idea of privatization. It was without a doubt that the idea was met with subtle rejec- tion (remember that these work- ers are afraid. oflosing their jobs. Besides, did you know that af- ter five years of service Union workers' children that have reached college age pay no tuition? With such giant benefits, would you con- test such a ridiculous prpopsaP). Within a short time, a Crosstalk was held to seek students' \input\. As the talk proceeded, students were clearly against the privatization issue but we arrived at school in the fall only to be greeted by \Big Bird Marriot.\ What happened? Where did all these drastic changes come from and why were the decisions rest- ing on the shoulders of an unknown number of professionals and FOUR students? These are the questions at hand right now. Nate doesn't do justice in answering the above questions. As a result, he dichotomizes the is- sue and responds with twenty dol- lar words with one cent meanings. Ahhhh, the eternal bliss of naivety. I'm not pointing fingers at aU the students who entered the dungeon of doom to add their \input\ to the decision (Although I'm taken aback as to how they all agreed unanimously to such an ambiguous proposal). My frustration is why they (the students) weren't aware of the mental mind game these business people were playing on them. Did they forget that these people would say exactly what they wanted to hear? How bad would it have been if at least one of them was clearly against the proposal? One could only imagine what oc- curred in that \chamber of manipu- lation.\ The above facts are what hap- pened and the ramifications are prevalent throughout the college groui)dS. The sharp odor of Big Business and class interest is every- where but some people still refuse to acknowledge such obvious facts. Dave wrote what he saw, how he saw it and then analyzed it from there. Those who may see it other- wise, should examine the pattern of all the changes that have occurred since the fall of '94. Besides, why haven't we (Stu- dent Forum) staged a protest? Is it only Steve Lapinski who can re- alize what's going on? Isn't re- acting to unfair student treatment one of the main criteria of a Stu- dent Forum'~ Yet, somemernbers sit in their aloof positions contem- plating whether to remove their thumbs from their anal apertures and mouths. Do .l need to men- tion their names? Of course not. It would be a total waste of the reader's time. Dave's comments need to be applauded because it's about time someone took the initiative to tell the student body that \the em- peror has no clothes.\ However, certain individuals are screaming foul play because their chances at winning the Bailey Cup or baby- sitting for the President are slowly evaporating. To those people I say, \Look in the mirror and see what great crimes you've done to yourself and all those who will come after you.\ The Student Forum is a politi- cal vehicle of the student body, whether we like such a fact or not. But, certain members in influen- tial positions ofthe forum become obstacles (puppetsofthe admin- istration) when it comes to repre- sentation. In other words, if there's a clash between students' and administrative interests, the latter is overwhelmingly wel- comed with open arms by a se- lected few individuals. Such be- haviors underlie the motives of some members and until the stu- dent body pick themselves up from their apathetic seats, we' II continue to be oblivious to the decisions that shape our present and future status here at Union College. THUS, RUN FOR THE STU- DENT FORUM BECAUSE A TIME HAS COME IN WHICH WE NEED TO DISTINGUISH THE \REVOLUTIONISTS\ (REALISTS) FROM THE DIS- ILLUSIONED AND CON- FUSED SERFS OF THE AD- MINISTRATION. N.B. The above words may be sar- donic and some may perceive it as a litttle from the left. No mat- ter how one looks at it, student activism on this c~mpus is as lively as situations are in the dol- drums. Hurried decisions that occur on this campus day in and day out must be properly ad- dressed (i.e. 14 million dollars on a building with very limited stu- dent use but we seem not to have enough funds for our \Romper Room library\). A curriculum that benefits one specific group of people but we claim that we're one big happy family. These may seem as too much for a student body but I truly be- lieve that since we're this college's biggest asset, we MUST DECLARE (NQT IM- PLY) a stronger voice in the poli- cies that shape the structural at- mosphere here at Union!! ! !\! I know I'm not by myself be- cause I have had several conver- sations with students and profes- sors who are also concerned about student activism on cam- pus. However, all these concerns are useless unless we voice comcemed issues, via running for Student Forum. Even if you are not the political type, you must understand that refusing to be political is actually being po- litical. I fthis continues, students at Union will all become '\pawns\ in one big chess game and no matter how substantiated our statements or proposals may be, it will fall on \deaf ears\ be- cause the argument here is that students at Union just don't care. Enough said. Kojo \The Nasty African\

Page 8 · April20, 1995 ·The Concordiensis \ OP/ED . ..._ ~ . ' ' , . ' . . . . . • ' • I ' Lunch Diversion: \What the Hull is Going On?·· I was on my way to eat lunch when I saw the masses gathered in front of the CoUege Center, preparing to march in protest. I joined them at the urging of a friend, and I'm glad I did. For those ofyou who missed it, the protest- complete with signs proclaiming the evilness of the administration (my favorite being \What the Hull's Go.ing On?!\)- was an interesting way for the student body to express their collective disgruntlement. The speeches given at three sepa- rate locations were thoughtful and honest, and for the most part the protesters were attentive and quiet. But I couldn't help but find the whole thing somewhat amus- ing. There we were; a.gaggle of rich kids protesting the unfairness of our high brow school. I found it both ironic and sad that some of the members of the throng of people were wearing clothing that would easily pay for half of the proposed increase in the meal plan. But the absolute clincher was when we walked from in front of the library toward the College Center chanting half- heartedl y, \Those who pay should have a say!\ for the ben- efitGfthe media. Once we arrived we tried it again, ••this time with feeling\. All during thi.~ portion, the news cameras were filming and photographing what might go down in the annals of Union's history as the, .. Protest of '95\. I'm sorry ifi sound cynical, but whether you know aboutthem or it's so hard to resist laughing at not. Ignorance and apathy don't our fledgling efforts to show our keep the bill from being placed disapproval. I remember one in- in your mailbox. So it behooves Marching and hollering work in a democratic society, which as stu- dents at Union, we are not part of. We need to, or rather we must, go over Hull's bead. stant during our march when I looked away from the crowd and saw Dean Alfred talking with someone and laughing. I'm not attempting to belittle our efforts, I think anytime you can gather three hundred some-odd number of Union students together with- out offering free beer, you've ac- complished something. As it was touched on many times, Union is a school of un- bridled apathy. Most students are more concerned with the new J- Crew catalogue, what happened on Melrose, or how many points Jordan scored the night before, than they are with the policies of our school. You may say that you don't care what happens, or that you're not really into politics. But the ironic truth is~ it doesn't mat- ter if you don't care about admin- istrative decisions, they \care\ about you. They effect you you to be knowledgeable and ac- tive. And that was the idealistic attempt behind this rally/protest thing we did But that means diddley. President HuH has been here for five years, and in those five years, Union traditions have been slowly swept clean. What most people don't realize about Presi- dent Hull is that he is here to raise money for the schooL period. He is a lawyer and a business man who specializes in the raising of funds. He showed his abilities re- markably in the newly renovated Nott Memorial. Yet aside from this beautiful feat, he is here for economic principles first. and student body interests second. How can he do this? It's very simple. Union College is not a stagnant constituency: we gradu- ate and new members arrive. In essence it is easy for him to dis- Senior Trustee Supports Student Forum I am writing in response to David Levine's article last week, \The Student Forum: Working for You?\ In short, Levine has made false judgments and accu- sations in his recent article that I would like to clarify. The first point that I would like to address is the fact that as a Stu- dent Trustee, I voice the opinions of the student body. I fight for what the majority of students want, not what the administration wants or what I personally want I have made a stand against the administration time and time again, showing that I do not «suc- cumb to the administration.\ For the past two years my position has required me to gather the student sentiment on issues and bring forth those opinions and ideas to the administration as well as to the Board of Trustees. Therefore, it is unfair of Levine to make such accusations as to what occurs at Trustee meetings and other meet- ings at which he is not present. Secondly, the issue about the GE plot raises concern when the article states, \that Dave was lam- basted by the two student trust- ees.\ To recall, I stated that the Forum cannot draw a consensus on this issue because there is ob- viously a difference of opinion. Students on the Forum did not all agree that President Hull was in the right, nor did they all consent that he was in the wrong on this issue. Therefore, I stated that since there was not a consensus, we could not as a Forum back this issue, but that we should infonn all students of the issue at hand. Furthermore, as a student as well as a Student Trustee, it is encouraging to see so many stu- dents voicing their opinions about issues that directly affect the cam- pus as a whole. I encourage op- posing views, since this will stimulate an active student body as well as an active, chal- lenged student government. As far as the current dining service issue goes, as soon as I was in- fanned, my immediate reaction was for the administration to inform the Student Forum as well as the student body at large. After being at the stu- dent forum meeting in which President Hull and Dean Alford were present, it was obvious that the members ofthe Forum were in agreement that the en- tire student body should be in- fanned as soon as possible. I hope that this clears up the accusations that were made last week. Respectfully, Hallie Heller Senior Trustee Listen to WROC 89.7 FM Just because, Stupid. P.§e Look for WRUC bumper stickers in your mailbox soon! regard student sentiment, because 25% ofus will be gone every year, and the incoming freshmen don't realize what they are missing. I've heard many a story about the way it used to be, and being a sopho- more, only very rarely can I re- late. And that's the problem. As years roll by, tradition atrophies, and little attempt is made to hold on. Make no mistake, our protest did (:}Othing but show our unity and bitterness to ourselves. Marching and hoi:Iering work in a democratic society, which as stu- dents at Union, we are not part of. We need to, or rather we must, go overHull'shead. Go to his bosses- the Trustees and Alumni. Talk to Hallie Heller and Liza Korber, they are your elected representa- tives to the Trustees. Be as subtle as a kick in the shines. Yell, scream, whine, or vomit. Any- thing to get the attention of the people who hold the purse strings to this school. Go to Lamont house and ask for the names and ad- dresses of donating Alumni, and write them letters telling them that Hull is not listening to the student body. What I'm saying is put the pressure where it counts- the pocket book. It doesn't matter how many times you say, \'Yeah that meal plan thing sucks.\ or how many times we march lock-armed in front of the news cameras. We need to take action on our own accord. Write the Alumni. Talk to Fr-anz Tl1omas Lli:z; · C1as~H!i,ft;t~~9-'1M/ your Trustee representatives. Be bold, be loud, be honest, and be active .. Action, by principle is es- sentially revolutionary. The protest was a start. A good start. But don't mistake it for a beginning and an end. If we want a change, if we want arevolution, we must be motivated not only during the commercial breaks on \Friends\, but continuously, loudly, and effectively. You have no idea how much power we pos- ses as a student body. If one hun- dred people went to Dean Alfred and said that they were seriously considering transferring if this meal plan fiasco goes through, it would be dropped like a bad habit. We count, wejustdon'tre'!. alize it. We're asleep atthe wheel, going through the motions until the weekend. We are almost ter- minally apathetic. But you won't hearth is from the administration. They're content to let a sleeping giant lie. To make a change, any change, we must first l:)wake form our collective slumber. So don't be at the next protest because you have a break between classes, or because it looks neat. Be there be- cause you want change, be there because you're pissed off, be there because you're awake. Sincerely, Rawson Thurber Sophomore Class President

- OPIED Greek Members Commended for Timely Actions Letter to the Editor: We are writing this letter to . commend the members of the Greek systetn for taking .imme- diate action. President Hull de- cided recently to make the meal plan mandatory for students liv- ing on campus and members of the Greek system decided they disagreed with this mandate. They fought back in an attempt to regain their private kitchens. However, what they are fighting for are the aftershocks when they should have tried to stop the earthquake. Tremors were first felt when Pataki was running for office, but how many Union stu- dents exercised our newly ac- quired right to vote in Schenectady? The earthquake actually hit when Pataki's pro- · posed budget cuts in educatian emerged. A rally was held in Al- bany in which people from all over the state came in an effort to protect their right for a quality education. How many Union stu- dents that are protesting now were accounted fbr at that rally? One reason the Greek house meal plans were sacrificed was be- cause Pataki cut financial aid pro- grams for students. How come the budget cuts were not a prior- ity to Union students before their food was taken away? The Greek system is forgetting the fact there are successful Greek organizations housed on campus who eat using the cam- pus meal plan. Maybe it would actually be beneficial for the stu- dent body to have more interac- tion. While Greek members are con- cerned with losing their kitchens, there are many students who will not be able to return next fall be- cause of loss of financial aid. The purpose of this letter is now to criticize the Greek system, our point is that there are more im- porumt problems present than the presence of a mandatory meal plan. Maybe it would be more beneficial for the Greeks to use their organizational skills, en- ergy, and power in numbers to rally against the greater issue at hand. A_s a whole, the Union stu- dent body must start looking at the bigger picture in life. This is simply one example of the self- centered attitude present on cam- pus. Signed, Michele Cohen, Susan Greenberg, Sarah Olson, Gaela Schweizer, and Jessie Zirinsky . ~ SauJwj-iJ 150/oOFF A $15M PURCHASE THIS WEEK ONLY IJ1ie open 1)oor \ unhju< 6ool<.swre 1Z8·136 Jay 5L Schenwady, ?>(y 5lB·34G-Z719 Page 9 • April, 20, 1995 · The Concordiensis Escort Service: A Driver's View To the Editor, Last week I picked up my is- sue of The Concordiensis and found yet another letter aboutthe Escort Service, this one signed by \MemberoftheClassof'95.\ As an escort driver I thought it might be nice to present our side of the issue. First, a response to the amount of time it takes the escort van to arrive at a location. Personally, I try to get to all of my calls in a reasonable amount oftime and I apologize to those who have had excessive waits on my shift. But let us now address the reasons which lead to such waits. The biggest contributing factor is in- considerate callers. Many times one person will call for an escort yet when we arrive there, there are ten people waiting to be picked up. This poses problem for us drivers because the mini-vans are not able to carry more than about five passengers. As a result, we have to make several extra trips . in order to complete one call and everybody else on our list has to wait even longer. It would be a great help if callers would tell us the number of people in their party if it is larger than three. Perhaps you could break your group up into separate calls with a smaller number of people. Another reason callers 'may have to wait a long time occurs when we get inundated with calls in a relatively brief time span. There is nothing we can do if twenty calls come in and yau are fifteenth on the list. We will get to you as quickly as we can. Please be patient. In regard to the incident spe- cifically mentioned by the writer of last week's letter, I cannot apologize for the operator's re- sponse. During winter term I drove in some really bad snow storms and it was not fun. If es- cort s~rvices were suspended in all likelihood it was because it was too dangerous to drive. I don't think any further eX:plana- tion is necessary. Consider this, if you wouldn't drive in it then why would we want to risk driv- ing in it. As for not offering any alternatives, aH I can say is that we are not Campus Safety. If you desire a walking escort, you need to contact them. Escort Service does not and cannot take calls for Campus Safety. Finally, I would like to address the proposed \solutions\ that were presented. the first \solu- tion\ was to run Escort Service like a bus with stops at the major points on campus. While this may seem I ike a brilliant idea, here are a few reasons why it is not. Num- ber one. By having the vans stop at only the major points on cam- pus there will no longerbebuild- ing to building service. You would get on at one stop, get off at another and be forced to walk to your destination from there. It would also eliminate service to students living off campus. Hon- estly, I don't perceive this to be what the students want. Besides, this type of service was offered at one point about three or four years ago. When the students were given the opportunity to call Escort Service or take the \bus\, nobody took the latter and it was disbanded. Number two. The vans wot~'t be able to accommodate large nMmbersofstudents waiting atthe stops. Hypothetically, what hap- pens if the van fills up at the col- lege center and the people want to go to the next to last stop. What about the students waiting at the stops in between? Do we skip the and proceed on? Do we arouse their anger by making them wait twice as long? Please do not sug- gest using the fifteen passenger vans. Campus Safety has one at its disposal to let us use and often times it is out on loan to various groups on campus. The rest be- long to Campus Operations and are not for Campus Safety to use. Number three. To accommo- date the waiting students, some type of structure would most likely need to be erected to serve as the bus stop. How would these be financed? Would you be will- ing to pay for it? It seems to me that a \bus stop\ system would be more trouble than it is worth. The second \solution\ pre- sented was to leave the chains blocking the roads down so that students can be dropped off in front of their residence halls. This was tried during the fall term but had to be suspended due to stu- dents driving recklessly on the roads. Keeping the chains down would also allow off campus ve- hicles greater access and thus re- duce the security already present. And lastly, the third proposed \solution.\ This one called for a walking escort when the student can't be driven to their residence. Does this mean that when we drop you offbehind Fox we have to leave the van and walk you to the door too? Consider that to do this it would require hiring two extra people per shift because it would now be necessary to have a driver (to drive and stay with the van) and the walking escort. However, as I already stated, you can ask Campus Safety for a walking es- cort. If they aren't busy the of- ficers will be glad to help. Be- yond this, I can see no need fro such a service. Union College has not slacked off on security measures due to the drop in crime since fall term. On the contrary, the do what they can. Escort Service is proof of this. Usually, there are two driver on every night until the early hours of the morning. Remem- ber, Escort Service was not cre- ated to be a taxi service between fraternity parties nor was it meant to cater to students who don't want to walk because it's cold or raining outside. No one can deny that in its present form, Escort Service is abused. Don't be mad when we are forced to follow Stu- dent Forum's rule that \no more than three females OR one male is allowed in the van at one time.\ It could be worse. Escort Service could be done away with all to- gether. Sincerely, Sara Amann Class of 1997 Concern For Lack of Men at Date Rape Speaker ''This is Not a Male Bashing Article\ On Tuesday April 18 I sat in the College Center auditorium and I istened to what I thought was one of the most dynamic and thought provoking speakers I had ever heard. Katie Koestner's talk on her experience with date rape, was truly one that should have been heard by all students of Union College, along with the faculty. In fact Ms, Koestner her- self suggested that her speech should be mandatory during freshmen orientation sessions. I thought the lecture was well spoken and those responsible for planning it should be commended for getting such a renowned speaker to come to Union. While I was pleased and I found that the others who attended found the lecture just as interesting, I no- ticed something about the audi- ence that throughly disturbed ,me. As I sat surrounded by what I as- sumed to be a room fifled with approximetly eighty percent women and twenty percent men, I wondered why the male popu- lation of our school was so poorly represented. No, I am not about to male bash for the rest of my article, so keep reading! As I sat and listened to this speech, what amazed me more than the outra- geous statistics of the number of date rapes that occur were the side comments I was hearing from fel- low Union students, male and fe- male. One female student anounced to a male student that she was \proud\ of him for showing up to the speech. I looked to see who she was speaking to and noticed thatthis student was sitting along with his pledge class. I admit it is a commendable feat making it mandatory for all of your pledges to show up to such a function. Yet I wondered to myself where the brothers ofthe numerous frater- nities on campus were? Date rape is obviously a touchy subject, one that many people are still afraid to admit happens. Ms. Koestner's approach to the subject was overly lighthearted and not at all threatening. Had more men showed up they might have even enjoyed themselves. This was not as many men as- sumed it to be a \male bashing session.\ I think most men on this campus need to stop feeling threatened by what they might encounter at these lectures or Womens Studies classes and try a new EXPERIENCE! More women on this campus will un- derstand more men, and men will understand women better if our lectures and classes are truly coed. Ask the few brave male souls who do come to these func- tions because they want to, and do sign up for these classes be- cause they find them interesting. I assure you they will tell you of numerous pleasurable and intel- lectual experit;mces. As I left the auditorium one male who had not been in the lec- ture passed by me. He questioned his companion as to whether or not \men were allowed in the Col- lege Center tonight?\ Yes, you are welcome, now the ball is in your court, make the move, please come join us. Sincerely, Nina Cohen

' ' Page 10 · April20, 1995 · The Concordiensis OPtED .. . ' ' . . ·.· ·· . . . ·. .LETTERS . . . . . . ' ' . . ' More Criticism for Student Fomm President To the Editor: While reading last week's let- ter to the editor from Student F o- rum President, Nate Coffin, I be- gan to wonder if he had indeed read Mr. Levine's article at all. Had he just become enamored with typing Mr. Levine, and ~e­ cidedto address a letter to him or did he indeed miss the point en- tirely. I am not as articulate as Mr. Levine, so I will simply quote pertinent sections ofthearticle in my discussion that I feel Mr. Cof- fin must have missed. First and foremost, the opening paragraph: \It is too much to expect that elected student politicians seek the assistance of their constituents before rendering decisions on is- sues that will greatly alter cam- pus life? Every person serving on the Student Forum promised to enhance the lines of commnication between the ad- ministration and the.student body. The facts about how little some members of this year's Forum have done to bridge this chasm are alarming .. '' As all of our Freshman Precept professors told us, an opening paragraph should give an accurate statement of the thesis of a paper, and Mr. Levine has done this quite nicely. He introduces the idea that some members of this year's Forum have done little to bridge this gap, and does not dis- cuss member's personal opinions on these issues, but leads us to consider the lack of representa- tion we, as students, have been getting with this Forum. Unfor- tunately, this opening paragraph was either misinterpreted., mis- read or missed entirely by our Student Forum President. The Forum President's next mistake was by intimating that he was in sole charge of the decisions of the Student Forum. By re- que$ting that Mr. Levine address all comments and concerns to him from this time forward, as if he were somehow personally re- sponsible for decisions made by individual membersofthe Forum, he has taken away all power of other Fonunpositions. lfl have misunderstood the Forum's con- stitution, and Mr. Coffin is indeed responsible for all•ofthe members of the Forum, I wiH certainly apologize, but I am hoping this is not the case. I would hope that aH members ofthe Forum would be willing to take responsibility for theti- own actions, and not expect or feel the need for the President's protec- tion. Members of Congress do notexpect Bill Clinton to be held personally responsible for al'l votes they cast and bills they pro- pose, and our system of govern- ment should not have any differ~ ent expectations. The thing that angered me most about the Student Forum President's letter was his disussion ofthe Student Forum's closed door meeting with Presi~ dent Hull and other administra- tors. To say that he agreed to a closed door meeting with the President because he knew that infon11ation would leak out to stu- IFC President Responds to Protest Comments I am writing in re~ponse to a I etter written by Heather Reynolds(April 13), and more generally to all those in the cam- pus community who are dis- pleased with the timing ofthe pro- test which occurred last Monday, April I 0 Ms. Reynolds. I appre- ciate your praise of the students and their ability to organize and take issue with problems that con- cern them. However, I find it necessary to wholeheartedly dis- pute your claim that the students participating in the protest on ac- cepted students day, \care little for the good of Union College and way too much for their own per~ sonal interests.\ It was expressed several times, both before and during the pro~ test. that the point was not to de- ter accepted students from choos- ing Union This day was chosen because it was a time when a maJority ofthe campus commu- nity. incl udmg students. adm in- istrators. faculty. and accepted students would be visible and ac- tive It is unfortunate that the stu~ dents are forced to resort to such measures to get the attention of the administration, but their re- fusal to even consider the gricv~ ances of the students makes this necessary For example. although the protests of winter term were successful m showmg the unity and power of the students. and there was much mtcrest through- out the campus. these efforts didn't even elicit a response from the adm1mstration As the leader of this protest. I am wi IIi ng to accept any critic ism for the way it was handled. How- ever, Ms. Reynolds, accusing me of caring only about my own per~ sonal interests is the furthest pos- sible thing from the truth. I am involved in a number of activi- ties on campus, including work- ing in admissions as a tourguide. l am just as concerned with the quality of our incoming class as any other student on this campus. Saying that I don't care about the future of Union College is abso~ lutely ludicrous, and rather insult~ ing. But I am one of just many students in the same situation. Although I can't speak for every- one, the reason why such a large numberofpeople participated in Monday's rally is precisely be- cause they care about the future of Union The difference is that these people are willing to do something to guarantee a positive future. There is no question that this particular situation began specifi- cally as a Greek issue. because we arc the one's who arc directly af- fected However. over the past few weeks. the issue has taken on a much broader signilicancc The dec1s1ons of the administration, over the past few years, have members of all parts of the cam- pus community outraged The protest Monday. did not only in- valve those Greeks with kitchens. but it was instead a culmination ofGreeks without kitchens, Inde- pendents. and even a few curious members of faculty and staff Our support for this issue ts increas- mg from all angles. and I am con- lident that If this continues, we ,.,J!l hcgin to make a difference If vou arc sti II worried about accepted students day, let me try to put you at ease First of all, there were just over one hundred accepted students visiting on this day, not 500. In addition, from talking to a number of these ac- cepted students, and their parents, they appeared to be turned on by this display of student unity and concern. It is those students who are interested in such issues that will make the best incoming Freshmen. Many members ofthe Union community, including some who are directly involved in admissions, see this as positive publicity for the college. The reason why this protest did not end up sabotaging accepted students day is because it was planned not to. The rally was done in a classy. peaceful way because the students did not want to harm the future of Union, not because the student body is afraid of President Hull. or any other member of the administration. However. it is irnportalit to under- stand that ifthings don't begin to change, the student body is go- ing to become increasingly hos- tile This is going to surface in the fonn of future alumni alien~ ating themselves from theschool, and present students losing their concern for the well-being of Union Although this scenario is disturbing, it is very realistic. It is true that the students have power on this campus. I ask that every concerned member of the Union community helps to con- tinue to channel this power in a positive way With everyone's support. things will change I hope we can all leave school with fond memories of a Union that cared as much about us. as we did about Union Sincerely. Steve Lapinski lFC President dents anyway is a,complete cop- out. He is not letting the adminis- trators know that we as students will not accept decisions without representation. Just because the information. got out does not mean tha~ the closed door meet- ing was an acceptable way for the administration to let the student body know about their decisions. Twenty-two people is not an ac- ceptable portion of the campus to be considered appropriate for making a decision on the basis of. The act of infonning the. stu- dent body should never he con- sidered \a mere fonnality.'' If this is indeed Mr. Coffin's view he shot:~ld have infonned the student body of this fact before the elec- tions, for that is 'one of the most important reasons for his position's existence. This com- ment seems in complete contra- diction to his value of all students' opinions. Mr. Coffin completely missed the point. All students should \carefully and and thoughtfull'ly weigh the implications of an is- sue,\ but they need to be told about what is happening in order to do this. I, like you and Mr. Levine agree that it does make sense for all students to be pay- ing the same amount of money to go to this school, but I do not agree with the way this decision was reached. At a school the .size of Union this type of decision making can- not be allowed. We are small enough so that we should all be able to give our input without de- creasing the speed of decsion making. President Hull and the administration needs to made aware of this, and it is the job of any student who comes in contact with thelTI in such a context to tell them this, which includes, most importantly, the Student Forum. Respectfully, Heather Reynolds Class of 1995 Please limit your Letters to the editor to 500 words. In the future, we will not be able to print letters that exceed this length. Letters must be turned in on a. high density disk by 4 pm Monday. Letters may be typed on MS Word for the Macintosh or MS Word for Windows. Please call 388-6155 with any questions. rm CDC UpiJateJ UNION COLLECE - Career Development Center Coming in May: •Preparing for Business School, Tuesday, May 2nd at 4 pm, CDC. Hank Malin. Director of Admissions at theTuck School of Business (Dartmouth) will discuss strategies for getting into a top MBA program. •Interviewing Skills Workshop, Wednesday, May 3rd, 7 pm, CDC. Reminders: •Garrett Lasewicz'92 of Northwest Mutual Life, Hanford, CT. is seeking financial a services planner. Resume deadline: Wed. April 26. •The CDC has listings for local part-time jobs. •The CDC also has new summer jobs and internship opportunities arriving daily. Check the surnmer job and internship hinders in the CDC library.

NCUR The Concordiensis • April20, 1995 • Page 11 Union College Presents: union w.elcomes NCUR Participants Welcome to NCUR 95! On behalf of the NCUR Governing Board and Union College, I want to extend a warm. .welcome to all those attending NCUR 95. We hope we can provide you with an ap- propriate mix ofintellectual stimulation, the chance to meet peers from a variety of aca- demic institutions, and just plain fun over the next two-and-one-half days. Perhaps we can also throw in occasional stretches of\spring-Hke\ weather, but, to be honest April in the northeast is often an adventure. Union first hosted NCUR in 1990. This year's conference, with nearly 1800 regis- trants, is 50% larger than NCUR 90. which is clear testimony tothe increasing impor- tance ofthe role of scholarly activity in the undergraduate curriculum. When NCUR first began, it was primarily a science con- ference. At NCUR 95, there are more pa- pers in English Literature than there were in all of the humanities at the first NCUR in 1986. In addition, the Friday night event at NCUR95-ARTSFEAST-·· featuresstu- dent work in the performing and visual arts, as well as a Foreign Film Festival and · an Intematienal-Food Feast. This NCUR is very special to us here at Union because 1995 is our Bicentennial Year. A highlight of this year has been the rededication of the NottMemorial, an odds-on choice for the most eccentric building on any college campus. Then again. how else would you honor a man (Eliphalet Nett) who was President of Union for 62 years, which is, and likely will always remain, an American college record') Take some time to tour this build- ing during your stay here. We trust that NCUR 95 has something of value for all attendees. Enjoy! Tom Werner NCUR 95 Site Co-Chair and member of the NCUR Board of Governors ... ; .. :-- ;:,· .... - ,, ,, \' Wcl.Come and Hd<}%:,(.:, ... ,. , ,,,p; ' Wda•,...,:;,.•:.\'!! iil!!''w,, .. ~ tS ' '· :· . -~ , , COngratttiations .to All -~· ·,·;·',.~•::::.:'·:;<·.;;~f:<:-~:.:,.:.-.:;·l;:_•,\-• ;:~ ( i\. ' •.;.- ;•,•''· •' • I • -,·,~• P·re·senters tln:d ,, Guests K C!. appa otgmas are welcome to the Chapter hoqse,.~t: . . 201 Sew-ard··· '>situated on '· - ..... ._.,... . .. ' .. Those Participating in NCUR and ARTSFEAST 1995. Special thanks to Professor Tom Werner and Helen Madden and all those who worked to make NCUR a success at Union College See inside for a complete schedule of events for NCUR, including Arts feast.

'. ,< NCUR 1995 at Union C . . . Join NCUR and Celebrate Undergraduate Scholarly Activities- All classes will be ca The National Conferences on Undergraduate Research (NCUR) will bring students from across the country to our campus to present their scholarly activities. The NCUR committees have tri ARTSFEAST Friday evening the foc11s will be on student presentations in the visual and performing arts during ARTSFEAST. ARTSFEAST will feature theater and dance troupes, compositions for brass quintet, vocal and instrumental pieces, visual arts exhibits and an international film festi~ val. See the complete ARTSFEAST schedule in this issue of the Concordiensis. ARTSFEAST International Food Feast ARTSFEAST also offers an international food feast. The menu fe Cajun cuisine. Students can register for the feast by contacting the I 6050. Admission to the food feast will be at a reduced rate from attendees. You can use your Validine card or meal plan. All Shuttle Buses will pick-up/droJ>-off in front oftbe Memorial Fieldhouse. Tbe ation; 7:30am - 6:00 prn 8:00am- lO:OOpm 9:00 am u -1-:00pm 9:00- 11:-1-5 arn 9:00- ll:30arn ll:-l-5am-l:l5pm 12:15- 1:15pm J2:l5- 1:15pm 1:30- 2:-l-5 pm 3:00- 5:30pm 3:00- 5:30pm 3:00- 5:30pm Thursday, April20 Regi§tration, Memorial Fieldhouse Exhibit of Undergraduate Scholarly Acti:rit~· from Prominent IndiYiduals. Main Floor of Schaffer Library Faculty Lounge, Hale House Dining Room Oral Session 1. Arts Building. Humanities Building, Science & Engineering Complex North Wing. Social Sciences Building U11dergraduate Research Network (URN) Session l. College Center Auditorium; Submitted papers describing undergraduate research issues by Conlerer faculty and administrators Bvx Lu11ch, Memorial Fieldhouse Special URN Session, SS016 H(lw to AJlply to Graduf.!la;ate~ 1 sQcS,h~~ogo~l~J!~~;flW:~~~e := =··:='/·~f\'''''''!:i:t:;:~'\'?'·'\ ,,,.,,,,,,,,,.,,,,·'''·'' panel of students and~.. guidance for those int~!res>ted ... :\ .. ;:J':,., ,= ,, , ,,: .. ,, :=:::=:::'.: ~:· .:. att~mding graduate school: Frank Barn'we/1, University.~!:)~itt1?/i)::/~l):i.\i:f::,:.::: =~·\ ·\=·: · .. · ... , :.· ta and John Knecht, ~ . ,::::::::::: ;;=,=ii'[,:,:l.!:!!f.:·t~.;:!' Lunches for Faculty inistrators · .··::.:·:·:-:::-·. -:·<· .. : :;.~·:.: j ': )t:::·:· ·ho would like to meet QtJ\:¢ts of common academic organized by Phyllis Betts, Opticnal Dinner, College Hall rograms. College CellteJ::;:$.~~11~'!; /em phis Class Dining Hall & West· · ·, ·:_ . .;-:: -·· :· .- - . :::::-: ~-;n=~-.fc·. ~-: ;·- ' .. :.:. ·.,,.,.,.,., ... ,., .... ,., .... ,.,. UBN Sessio11 2. College Center Submitted papers describing . ih\4t<@t;;0i'Ji@[;;.t' ¥)1~~1'' . 8:00 - 10:00 p:m 10:00 pm- midnight 7:30am- 6:0() pm 8:00 am - I 0:()0 pm 9:00am- -1-:0() pm 9:00 - II :.t-5 arn 9:00 D 11 :.J5<arn 9:00 - 11 :.J5 am ll:45 am-1:15pm 12:15- 1:15pm undergraduate research issues by tnlij'~'~\' and administrators Poster Session 2, Achilles Rink Ice Cream Social. Memorial Fieldhouse Friday, April21 Registration, Memorial Fieldhouse Exhibit of Undergraduate Scholarly Acth·ity from Prominent Individuals, Main Floor of Schaffer Library Faculty Lounge, Hale House Dining Room Oral Session J, Arts Building. Humanities Building, Science & Engineering Complex North Wing. Social Sciences Building Poster Session J, Achilles Rink U:RN Session J, College Center Auditorium; Submitted papers describing undergraduate research issues by faculty and administrators Box Lunch, Memorial Fieldhouse Special Toa)ic Discussions We. invite you to ~e your box lunch to the any of the special topic discussions in the indicated locations: What is the Undergraduate Research Network?- Humanities 019 Encouraging Teaching of Hands-on Science Acti\'ities in Elementary Schocls - Old Chapel Professor Charles Scaifo, Union College lor Dndergma~ Resear1 ~--------~------------~------------------------------------------~----------~-------------------~~--~-·-------------------~------------------~--~ Page 12 • Apri120, 1995 • The Concordiensis

.. - be cancelled on Thursday (Apri120) and Friday (April21) during NCUR. have tried to ma-ximize the opportunities for Union student participation in N CUR activities. All students are welcome to attend oral, poster, and plenary sessions. The menu features Asian, Italian and y contacting the Dining Services Office at rate from that paid by conference plan. a I NCUR 95 T -Shirts Get your offi.cial NCUR 95 T -shirt through the Office of Special Even.ts. The grey T -shirts with the NCUR 95 .logo in red are being offered to students for $8.00 (sold during the conference for $1 0.00). I :30 -4:00pm l :30-4:00 pm I :30 -4:00pm 4:15-5:15 pm 7:00- ll :00 pm '';:':'}!i ;·.;; :;' ·-·.·· '•' .···' 8:00 am -.J 2:00 pia:< 9:00am- 11:00 am::;::: 9·00 - 11·00 am :·::/{: . . :: l:; !·:·,:::::~ 9:00- 11:00 am ... : 9:00 - 11 :OO am <.< .. ::·:·:-:: .. : :\i;~:~t[~:f.;:::: .·y:·~=t·' 10:00 am- 7:9-itvw 1115 ~~f,~T~m 12:45 - 2:00pm 1:15pm- Professor Scaife's work was profiled in a front page article appearing in a May. 1994 issue of The Wall Street Journal. This project has been partially funded by a grant from The Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation, Inc. Teacher..:Scholar vs. Scholar- Teacher- Social Sciences 016 A panel and participant discussion ofthf! proper balance between the often- perceived dual roles of the academic. Led by Professor Jim.UcWhirter, Union College. Is the (..ecture Dead? -Bailey Hall 207 A panel and participant discussion ofalternatives to the venerable lecture format in higher education. Led .by Professor 1\lary Carroll, ['nion College. Oral Session 4, Arts Building, HumanitiesBuilding, Science & Engineering Complex North Wing, Social Sciences Building Poster Session 4, Achilles Rink URN Session 4. College Center Auditorium: Submitted papers describing undergraduate research issues by faculty and administrators Plenary Session 2, Memorial Chapel Speaker- Donna Cox, Ph.D., Professor, School ofA.rt & Design University of Illinois at Urbane-Champaign Chapel {Ut:!im:uAdjunct im.';;J.l{Etl'ner,, .VCf../R 95 Welcome to NCUR 96- Dr. Merritt 1\Jose/ey, .VCUR 96 Site Chair Reception for Julian Bond, College Center Atrium Optional Acti,·ities and Tours Meet your bus at the time/location listed below: .. The National Baseball Hall of Fame-1:15pm at the bus stop in front of the Memorial Fieldhouse Howe Caverns- 1:30pm at the bus stop in front of the Memorial Fieldhouse New l\ork State Aluseum-1:45 pm at the bus stop infront of the Memorial Fieldhouse Radio Days at Proctor's Theater- buses will be running from the official NCUR 95 hotels; refer to your hotel shuttle schedule for exact time and location Videotape Viewing of Plenary Session 1 (Dr. Baruch Blumberg) will be available on Friday from 9:00am to 4:00pm and on Saturday from 9:00am to 1:00pm in Social Sciences Building 016. Videota11e Viewing of Plenary Session 2 (Professor Donna Cox) \Vill be available on Saturday from 9:00 am to 1:00pm in Social Sciences Building 016. -----------· -~-·- ~. -· The Cmicordiensis • A11ri120, 1995 • Page 13 I ' . \ '·

_Pag_e I_4 ______ Calendar 4/20/9 5-4/3 0/95 ----- \ Thursday, 04/20/95 8:00a ARTSFEAST Rehearsals, MEMORIAL CHAPEL 12:00p \Plate Full of Questions\ Peer Facilitators, CC STRAUSS (305) 3:30p ARTSFEAST Rehearsals, MEMORIAL CHAPEL 6:00p SHPE Meeting, CC 204 7:30p The Calculus Center, BAILEY 203 Friday, 04/21/95 8:00a ARTSFEAST Rehearsals, MEMORIAL CHAPEL Saturday, 04/22/95 8:00a MCA T Exam, BAILEY 100 and 102 Sunday, 04/23/95 8:00a MCAT Exam, BAILEY 100 and 102 4:00p Adventurer's Guild, CC 409 4:00p Orientation Interviews, HH MILANO LOUNGE 5:00p Affiliates Phone-a-thon, HH DINING ROOM 6:30p Phi Iota Alpha, CC 409 7:00p Sunday Religious Service, HH OLD CHAPEL Monday, 04/24/95 7:00a Guidance Counselors Visit, HH DINING ROOM, HHOLDCHAPEL 9:00a Guidance Counselors Visit, NOTT MEMORIAL lO:OOa U Call Steering Committee Meeting, CC 203 Il :30a Student Panel, NOTT MEMORIAL .. 4:30p Modem Dance-Section II, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (1 08) 5:00p Affiliates Phone-a-thon, HH DINING ROOM 5:15p Residence Life, CC-205 6:00p Combined Ballet, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (1 08) 6:00p Scuba Diving Class, BAILEY 205 6:30p Union College Choir Rehearsal ARTS 215 7:00p Religious Programs, CC 409 7:00p Poster Exhibition of Latin Women in the Work Force, HHOLDCHAPEL 8:00p Delta Psi Delta, CC 302 9:00p Social Committee Meeting, CC 409 Tuesday, 04/25/95 8:00~ NSF Grant Meeting, CC 302 9:30a U CALL, CC 409 1 O:OOa Going Greek Sale, CC ATRIUM 11 :OOa Residence Life Meeting, CC 205 11:30a Faculty Soup &Beverage, HH DINING ROOM 12:00p Japanese Table, CC 204 I2:00p Values Group Meeting, Iffi MIL.ANO LOUNGE I2:30pFlute ChoirRyhearsal, ARTS 313 2:00p Managers' Meeting Dining Services, CC 205 3:45p Commencement Committee Meeting, CC 203 5:00p Affiliates Phone-a-thon, HH DINING ROOM 5:30p Ballet III, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (1 08) 6:00p U B Glad, CC 204 7:00p Career Development, HUMANITIES 114 7:00p Newman Club Meeting, CC STRAUSS (305) 7:00p Ballet!, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO(l08) 7:00p Portuguese/Brazilian Club, CC MOBIL (406) 7:00p Union College Orchestra Rehearsal, MEMORIAL CHAPEL 7:30p The Calculus Center, BAILEY 203 8:30p Intervarsity Christian Fellowship, CC STRAUSS (305) Wednesday, 04/26/95 9:30a U Call, CC 409 I O:OOa Going Greek Sale, CC ATRIUM I2:15p Portuguese Table, CC 204 2:00p High Tea, HH MILANO LOUNGE 3:30p Bicentennial Steering Committee Meeting, CC 203 4:00p CUP A Meeting, HH OLD CHAPEL 4:30p Pen Hellenic Meeting, CC 204 4:30p Intro to Dance Movemen~ PERFORMJNG ARTS STUDIO (1 08) 5:00p Meditation Group, CC 302 5:00p Affiliates Phone-a-thon, HH DINING ROOM 6:00p Modem Dance-Section I, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (1 08) 6:00p A.O.P. Tutoring Session, SOCIAL SCIENCES 010 and 014 6:30p Union College Choir Rehearsal, ARTS215 7:00p M H Abrahams, HUMANITIESO 19 7:00p Jazz Ensemble Rehearsal, ARTS 313 7:30p Dance Ensemble Meeting, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (1 08) 7:30p The Calculus Center, BAILEY203 8:00p Chet' s Open, CHET'S · Thttrsd~y, 04/27/95 8:30a 25 Years ofCo-EdatUnion, CC204 9:00a Dean of Students Sta~fMeeting, CC205 9:30a U Call, CC 409 lO:OOa Going Greek Sale, CC ATRIUM 11 :30a Baccalaureate Meeting, CC 203 12:00p Spanish Language Table, CC 302 12:00p\Plate Full of Questions\ Peer Facilitators, CC STRAUSS (305) 12:30p German Language Table, CC 203 I2:30p Chemistty Seminar, HUMANITIES 019 1 :30p Physics Colloquium, SCIENCE & ENG. NW 114 5:00p Affiliates Phone-a-thon; HH DINING ROOM, 5:3Qp Big Brothers/Big Sisters, CC 409 6:00p SHPE Meeting, CC 204 6:0op Ballet II, PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO (108) 7:00p Big Brothers/Big Sisters Meeting, CC 410 7:30p The Calculus Center, BAILEY 203 8:00p Here's to U Meeting, CC 302 8:00p Chet' s Open, CHET' S Friday, 04/28/95 lO:OOa Going Greek Sale, CC ATRIUM 12:00p Annual Scholarship Luncheon, HH OLD CHAPEL l:OOp Ahimni Council Meeting, CC 203 · 2:00p COSA Meeting, CC 205 4:30p Meeting with Candidate, BUTTERFIELD 300 6:30p Intetvarsity Christian Fellowship, CC MOBIL ( 406) 7:00p ASCE Concrete Canoe Races Dinner, HH OLD CHAPEL 7:00p Philomathean Society, HHMILANO LOUNGE lO:OOp AU Night Study Room, HH DINING ROOM Saturday, 04/29/95 7:00a Alumni Council Meeting, SOCIAL SCIENCES 010 and012 7:30a Alumni Council Meeting, NOTT MEMORIAL 9:00a Accepted Students Day, CC AUDITORIUM, HH DINING ROOM, HH MILANO LOUNGE, and HH OLD CHAPEL 1 O:OOa Going Greek Sale, CC A TRlUM 12:00p Alumni Council Meeting, CC UPPER CLASS DINJNGHALL 1 :OOp Alumni Council Meeting, CC 203, 204,205,302, and 409 1 :OOp Alumni Council Meeting, SOCIAL SCIENCES 103, 104, I 05 -Seminar, 110, and 112 5:30p Kappa Alpha Society, Alumni Gathering, HH DINING ROOM, HH OLD CHAPEL 7:00p ASCE- Concrete Canoe Dinner, CC UPPER CLASS DINING HALL Sunday, 04/30/95. 12:30p Special Olympics Practice, ASTROTURF (BAI!--EY FIELD) 4:00p Adventurer's Guild, CC 409 6:00p Member/Guest Bridge Game, CC UPPER CLASS DlNINGHALL 6:30p Phi Iota Alpha, CC 409 7:00p Sunday Religious Service, HH OLD CHAPEL 7:00p Schenectady Figure Skating Meeting, SOCIAL SCIENCES 110 . lO:OOp All Night Study Room, HH DINING ROOM

World News The Vietnam War's Secret History and Aftermath By Matt Sandler World News Editor tagon Papers, the Army's official history of the war, has no reference of the cap- tured commandos. John Mattes, the former · · investigative counsel for the Senate com- U.S. supported Vietnamese commandos mittee on prisoners of war, said, \While it captured and imprisoned in the 1960s, who is tragedy that we left.these POWs behind, were intentiona:lly forgotten, now want to it's a national scandal that we would seek come to the United States under refugee to deny their existence and to rewrite his- sta~s. The Immigration and Naturaliza- tory to eliminate them.,, Mr. Mattes \was tionService isdisputingtheirclaims. The referring to LN.S. actions and a long Vietnamese commandos, \were a mix of secret..declassifiedPel).tagonhistoryofthe South Vietnamese Army officers and ci- · · comml;lndos, the Macsog report, short for vilians; marty originally came from the Military Assistance Command/Studies and North and knew the terrain and the dia- Obser\lationsGroup.\ Iects.\ The money came from the United OPLAN 34-A was covert operations that StatesNavy'scovertoperations budget and led to North Vietnamese speedboats pur- was laundered by the C.I.A. through off suing the commandos, which came upon shore transactions. The commando opera- the U.S.S. Maddox and Turner Joy and the tions started under C.I.A. control in 1961. alleged attack. PtesideAt Johnson went to When the military landed full scale in 1964, Congress asking for powers to defend the transfer ofthe commando operation went United States forces in the area. The Gulf to the Pentagon, under the Operation Plan of Tonkin resolution passed and Johnson 34-A (OPLAN 34-A, the covert raids and used it to commence air bombing of the sabotage against the North). Ntlrth. Leading to a dividing war that The Vietnamese commandos operations' c;aused 3 million Vietnamese deaths, huge were to gather intelligence, conduct:mili- environmental destruction, and 57;000 tary raids and psychologi~al.operations, Americans Killed in Action {KIA) and and to assist in the U.S. pilot~ escape and marty more suffering from Agent Orange evasion tactics. The forces entered North and others in need of Veterans Adminis- Vietnam covertly, by \speedboats and tration support. The United States should sampans, were parachuted in by the South all9w these soldiers to enter the country Vietnamese Air Force, or were dropped by and give them living support, to do noth- the C.I.A. from Air America planes into ing less, would be to dishonor all who Laos to walk into the war zone., The Pen- served and died there. ington: »Dole sets his sights on the Presidency for the third \'--~--' time, with a key asset, of being the definite front runner. » Representative Nathan Deal switched from the Democrats to the Republicans. Making the GOP ma- jority 231, to the Democrats 203, and one independent. » The House's Haircut Shops are go- ing Private. Chainnan of the House Oversight Committee, Representative Bill Thomas Republican of Califor- nia, said this year's projected losses for the two shops, which serve mem- bers and their staffs, were nearly $100,000. brought to her, and she picked out the ones she liked. Those people were killed and their skin was made into lampshades for her. She also used mummified human thumbs as light switches in her house.\ »Attacks by Hamas and Islamic Holy War continue against IsraeL » Palestinians seize I 00 militants who oppose talks with Israel as two more bombing victims die from wounds sustained from the suicide attacks. »The Burmese military steps up at- tacks against drug lord Khun Sa. » The Red Cross reports massacre by the Russian in attacks over the week- 'end killing 200 people. ··>> President Fujimori wins Peru's election, and has a consolidated con- trol of country, with his party' sgain in Congress for 5 years. »GOP Governors want more flexibil- >> The C.I.A. asks for $19 million to ity in administering the Welfare .pro- undennine Iraq's ruler and rein in grams with less restrictions, by push- Iran,. in accordance with the Clinton ing the Senate to make the necessary Administration's policy of\dualcon- changes to the bill. , · tainment of rogue nations.\ International: »German ghosts of Nazi hate are re- visited fifty years later. Use Koch, wife ofthe Buchenwald commander typifies Nazi cruelty. '\She got the · idea that she would like Iampshades made of human skin. [Prisoners] were made to strip to the waist. The ones who had interesting tattoos were >> U.S. plans to impose several bil- lion dollars against Japan unless the Japanese make progress in opening their markets in the next three weeks to American autos and auto parts. » A Serb defector from the Serbian secret police has brought documented evidence of war crimes by Mr. Milosevic, Serbia's President. Write for World News Contact Matt @ X6155 Jose Marti: The Great Cuban Liberation Patriot Courtesy of Phi Iota Alpha Fraternidad, Inc. \Fatherland is something more than op- pression, something more than pieces of land without freedom or life, something more than the right to possession be force. Fatherland means a community of inter- ests, unity of traditions, unity of goals, the sweetest and most consolingfusion of/aves and hopes ... Cubans do not live as Span- iards live .. .They are nourished by a differ- ent system of trade, have links with differ- ent countries, and express their happiness through quite contrary customs. There are no common aspirations or identical goal liking the two peoples, or beloved memo- ries to unite them ... Peoples are only united by ties of fraternity and love\ Jose' Marti became a supporter of Cu- ban independence due to the influence of his school master Rafael Maria de Mendive. The patriot Mendive took the young Marti under his wing and also served as a surrogate father figure for him. At the age of six-teen, Jose' Marti was sen- tenced to six years of hard Jabot for accus- ing a friend of \apostasy\ (for being a member ofthe Spanish Volunteers which is a group of paramilitary concerned with the strictest defense of the status quo) in a letter that was c-onfiscated by a group of Spanish Volunteers. Marti served only·six months of the sentence and then was de- ported to Spain in January of 1871. This event scared Marti for life both physically and mentally. Physically the experience left him with a groin lesion due to the chains that he was forced to wear from his waist to his ankle. He was also beaten and whipped frequently during his six months imprisonment. Mentally the experience led him to sympathize with people suffering under any form of oppression, and not just suffering of a socio-economic or political nature. These earliest years ofhis life gave him an intense hatred of injustice in gen- eral and the motivation to do something about it. Jose' Marti had many other ideals and beliefs that he subscribed to throughout the course of his life. He drew the basic pre- mhes of his world view from the neo- Kantian movement known as Krausism. This beliefis a mix of moralistic idealism that is found in Christianity, blended with Kant and positivism. He believed in a kind ofhannonic rational ism that is a fusion of frugal and brotherly values of Christianity and other similar religions. Marti placed this rationalism into a positive mind set while fighting for his county's indepen- dence. This was the foundation for all of the other beliefs that Marti asserted throughout his short life. Jose' Marti held both anti-imperialist and non-socialist views. This is what leads many scholars who research Marti to de- rive different conclusions about who he was, what he tried to do, and what he be- lieved in. His position on socialism also changed during the course ofhis life. To- ward the end of his life, it seemed as if he was starting to support socialist ideas and how they might effect his Cuba. Marti also warned about dangers of ex- cessive accumulation of property by the minority, and the evils of excessive indus- trialization. His ideology about war was that of liberation and liberation alone. This concept stood above interests of classes, groups, colors, or regions. Throughout his life Marti never swerved from this belief about this concept of war. Throughout his life Marti has traveled to Spain, Mexico, Guatemala, France, New York City, Ven- ezuela, Haiti, and the Dominican Repub- lic, In 1871 upon being deported to Spain, Marti works on and publishes_Political lmvrisonment in Cuba. This essay was an attempt to move the Spanish public to do something about its government's brutali- ties in Cuba. Marti told stories about his fellow prison mates and gave descriptive detai Is as to their unjust punishments. The literary work also asserted reasons why Cuba should be granted its independence. He used the press as a means of express- ing his views. For example, he condoned the tactic used by the mambises of burn- ing cane fields as a legitimate economic weapon. He also reluctantly condoned the shooting of Spanish prisoners, because it was done in reprisal for similar and worse actions taken by the occupying ·army. Through the press he underlined his total opposition to slavery and pointed out the Spanish Republic's past refusal to abolish it. In 1880, Marti was made Interim Presi- dent of the New York Cuban Revolution Committee and starts publishing in En- g! ish-language journals to further the Cu- ban effort. In 1884, Marti was named Uruguayan Consul in New York. In this capacity, Marti dedicates himself to new anti-Spanish plans. . ( .. • I.

. ~ . P.age 16 • The Concordiensis ·April20, 1995 Business Back From the Dead: The Chrysler Takeover By Alex Johnson Business Editor. Quarterly net income, in billion~ $1 25 look at the leveraged buyout of RJR Nabisco to see the negative possibilities of a weak balance sheet. To make matters worse, unlike consumer products, the automotive industry is extremely cyclic. A buyout of this type could hurt Chrysler to the point where another recession might put the company back into the doghouse. tio was 4. This is so low as to make the stock price a bargain. It seems that the company may now getti~g the respe.ct its deserves. Iacoccahad a vision in his Auto- biography of Global motors, an international car company cen• tered around alliances with other companies. If the economy keeps haul in' ass Chrysler could parlay its success into a presence around the world If a rival bid comes through, the bid may be the jumpstart that Chrysler needs to become a major world player. Fifteen years ago, theChrysler Corporation was suffering. Thanks to the combination of high oil prices and the burgeon- ing of.Tapanese imports, the com- pany had a I imited chance of sur- vival. No bank would even think of lending them money: Things looked bleak. 'Includes $115 million chargeformhilvanrecall Sou1CO. 0Jsclosuro Inc. Lee Iacocca has said that he would never hurt .the company he helped to save. He may be more honest than we give him credit for. Iacocca knows where the weaknesses are in the company. He knows where the skeletons are buried -in fact he is the one who probably buried them. The story as you know had a happy ending: Lee lacocca per- suaded the U.S. Gov't to guaran- tee Chrysler's loan payments to lenders in case the company went bankrupt. They did not default and as a result, we have the Cara- van, Neon, and the amazing, V- I 0 Viper of today. In the past three years making automobiles has become one of the most profitable businesses' around. And Chrysler has re- cently surpassed Ford to become the U.S.'s low-cost producer of cars. This cost advantage has re- ally souped up the bottom line. In the first quarter of 1994, Chrysler made a record profitof$938 mil- lion. Last Thursday they reported first quarter 1995 earnings of $592 million. The decline due in part from a $115 million charge to cover the replacement of de- fective minivan hatch latches. All this cash adds up. Chrysler has a accumulated a $7.:3 Billion cash reserve which they'll use to ease their worries when the economy next heads south. This seemingly consevative financial position in fact makes them quite vulnerable to a takeover. Last Wednesday, Las Vegas mogul Kirk Kerkorian, with fel- low investor Lee lacocca, made an offer to buy the 90% of Chrysler he does not already own. (No, this is not the same person as the Dr. Death of suicide fame) The offer is unusual because he offered a price of $55 dollars a share to be paid in cash. Gener- ally a combination of stock and cash is used to entice investors to accept buy-out proposals. The interesting twist is that of the to- tal $22.8 billion proposal, a quar- ter would come directly from Chrysler's own cash reserve! One would expect that the stock price would immediately jump to around $55 a share in anticipation of quick profits and the possibil- ity of a counter-offer by another company. This was not the case however. The stock did jump by Student Forum Elections For Academic Year 1995-1996 President Junior Trustee VP Administration VP-Finance VP Academic Affairs VP Campus Life * * * * Petitions are available in the Student Activities Office, 4th fl. CC (rm 408) **** Starting April 14th (200 signatures are needed-you may get these signatures from all classes) April 21: Petitions due by 5:OOpm in the Student Activities Office & statements and pictures due @ Concordy Office by 4:00pm April 27: There will be a DEBATE held in Chets for Candidates who are running for President of Student Forum & for Jun- ior Trustee!!! ELECTIONS FOR ALL THESE PO- SITIONS WILL BE HELD ON FRI- DAY APRIL 28TH!!!!!!!!!!! about $9 a share to $51 but has since declined to around $48. The $7 price differential is the market's disbeliefthat the financ- ing of the deal is possible. The depletion of Chrysler's cash re- serves would no doubt weaken the company. One has only to The pre-bid Price/Earnings ra- The Economics Department is inviting students to apply for membership in Omicron Delta Epsilon the national economics honor society. In order to qualify for membership in O~E, you must have a 3.0 cumulative grade point average or better, and must also have an average of at least 3.0 in economics courses. You must have taken Econom- ics 12, 20, 31, and 42, but you do not have to be an economics major; non-majors are welcome to apply if they meet the above criteria. If you wish to join OilE, send a copy of your unofficial tran- script to Prof. Stephen Schmidt (not Prof. Shelton Schmidt!) in .. the Economics department. It will be reviewed to determine whether you meet the admissions criteria. If you do meet them, you will be given an application form. There will be a ceremony in spring for newly accepted members. Please reply by May 1.

Science & Medicine The Concordiensis • April20, 1995 • Page 17 Diagnosis of AIDS: Circa England 1959? by Dennis Popeo Science & Medicine Editor In 1959, David Carr, a soccer player and factory worker died of an illness that perplexed the doc,- tors in his home city of Manches- ter, England. The illness was something that they had never seen before so the doctors wrote up the case for medical joumals and saved samples of tissue and organs. The case of David Carr seemed to be just a strange occur- rence, a page in the annals of un- explained phenomena, until1990. h1 1990, two Manchester doc- tors, Dr. George Williams and Dr. Gerald Corbitt used a new tech- nology called PCR to diagnose David Carr, and put to rest any lingering questions about this medial mystery. PCR is used to amplify pieces of DNA many, many times over. Union College, in fact, has equipment to carry out a PCR machine. Using PCR, the researchers were finally able to make a diagnosis of David Carr, but their finding asked more ques- tions than it answered. David Carr had died of AIDS. TI1e AIDS virus, HIV, was first noticed in the US in 1981. Find- ing AIDS in Europe so much ear- lier gave life to theories, some ri- diculous, about the origin ofHIV ~ One theory was advanced that AIDS came about because oftest- ing of polio vaccines in Africa in the 1950's, other theories, pro- lnoted by the KGB, laid the blame for HIV and AIDS on the Ameri- can military's biological weapons laboratories. Aside frmnthis, the finding a:llowed scientists to com- pare the 1950 strain of AIDS to today's strains in order to gain infonnation about the mutation of the virus. Unfortunately, as other re- searchers became interested in this first appearat1ce of the disease that is the scourge of the twenti- eth century, the likelihood of David Carr actually having AIDS has decreased significantly. Dr. David Ho, a top AIDS researcher in New York City, was given ac- cess to the samples of David Carr's tissues and organs, but could only isolate AIDS from one san1ple. The isolated sample was very different than what Ho ex- I - pected to see,. so, as any good re- searcher would do, he perfonned more tests. The results of the tests were a startling disappointment to the scientific community: David Carr did not die of AIDS, there was no proof found in the comprehen- sive tests if Dr. Ho. Also, more disturbing than the wrong diag- nosis is the fact that the samples sent from Manchester contained tissue from two different people. University of Manchester offi- cials reject Ho's findings, which included a genet<ic map of the 19 59 strain which was very simi- lar to contemporary strains of HIV. Afraid ofGontamination on the part of either the Manchester scientists or the New York City testing facility, l-Io asked for samples of the original tissue to test. After receiving the tissue nearly one year after his request, Ho and his research team found indications that the tissues were not decayed, but he found no in- dication that the tissue contained AIDS or HN. Ho then compared the first and second tissue samples sent from Manchester IORS ' • Applying to Health Profession Programs? (i.e. Medical, Dental, Veterinary Scltools) The Pre-Health Advisory Committee will be processing student's applications early in the spring term. If you have not yet done so, please see Kathy Hopper in the Dean's Office (S-1 00) to pick up application materials. and found that the tissues did not match. In other words, the· samples were from two different people. Ho's findings raise serious doubt about the 1990 findings of the AIDS virus in the 1959 tissue. Perhaps there was some contami- nation that the British scientists were unaware of, or perhaps the tissues were inadvertently mixed up, but it seems that David Carr was not the first AIDS casualty. Other scientists have expressed interest in trying to solve the new mysteries of David Carr, but since the tissue samples in the posses~ sian of Dr. Ho are almost ex- hausted, and because David Carr was cremated and no new samples can be dug up, the testing has been stalled. There is one possibility, however, for further testing. It appears David Carr's lungs are being stored somewhere. If the lungs are indeed Carr's, they can be tested for HIV I AIDS and put an end to this thirty six year old mystery. The origins of AIDS have been theorized by several people, both scientists and novices. Many be- lieve that AIDS has been around for a long time, but was only transmitted to those who ate raw primate meat. Since these people were isolated from society at large, the transmission was halted. In 19 59, when society became mobile, the virus spread quickly. Other theories hold that HIV was a benign virus that mu- tated into a threat, or even that HIV was sent to destroy the \un- clean\ persons on Earth. Although some theories are more intelligent than others, it is a fact that scientists do not know the origins of the HIV vims, the virus that causes AIDS. Much more research must be done to find treatments and vaccines for the AIDS virus. No longer is any- one safe from the scourge of the twentieth century, but we do know how to protect ourselves, and we must protect ourselves. The best way not to die from AIDS is to never get it. Please talk to your RA for information on HIV and AIDS, or stop by Silliman Health Center for infor- mation on the virus and testing. Whale Watch '9 5 Provincetown, Cape Cod May 6 & 7 Come join us for another adventure on the high seas. Leave Union on Saturday at 8AM, arrive Marconi Beach at 2PM. Enjoy an evening os sightseeing, shopping and eating in the former whaling port of picturesque Provincetown. Board the Dolphin Fleet V on Sunday for 4 hours of whale watching. Return to port for lunch and then back to Union by 9 or 1 OPM. Cost of $35 includes bus, motel and whale watch. Make your reservations with the Bi- ology Department Secretary in room S&E 8324 (cash payment required at time of reservation. Thi\ adventure ls sponsored :Jnd supported b; the Biology Club. Questions may be. directed to Professor Butterstein at X6327

~-. Page 18 • April20, 1995 • The Concordiensis Features Students Attend N.O.W. Protest in Washington, DC By Pete•· Sorensen Contributing ·Writer A man walked into a bar, straight up to the bartender, and asked for a glass of water. The bartender pulled out a gun and pointed it at the guy. The guy said thank you, and walked out. Not exactly your everyday oc- currence, but hey-I was in a hurry; I came to D.C. to march on our nation's Capitol. not to waste my time with pugnacious bartenders. We took the Metro to the Washington monument, and as we exited there was a notice- able air of protest-plus, there were just way too many T-shirt vendors. Actually, it was the slogans on the shirts which would have tipped off a pass- erby; to name a few, \my will to survive caused me to submit to my rapist\ and \we're Newt gonna take this.\ If you haven't been keeping abreast of national affairs (like me up 'till the day before we left), you may not know that the Senate is consid- ering the Contract for America Bill. and part of it involves making abortion illegal. Some- how, the suits in D.C. decided to be try to regulate a very es- sential aspect of being a woman-and by essential, I mean only to clear up an obvi- ous point; men don't have ba- bies. and women only . .have their own. Anyone else who gets in- volved is overstepping their bounds. What is going on here? The march began at the Wash- ington Hlonument and began heading for the reflecting pool made famous by our now-national icon, Forrest Gump, near which a large podium was set up. I witnessed the procession from the side, and was mildly sur- prised to see among the masses delegations from both Bryn Mawr and Amherst Colleges, \singin' songs and a-carryin' signs,\ some of which, I must admit, were rather explicit. Write for Features More power to them. Speeches were made by several Women's Rights activists, and the whole protest was graced with perfor- mances by Toad the Wet Sprocket and Luscious Jackson. Those are just details. What actually happened at our nation's capitol speaks to a sig- nificant problem in our \free\ society-our government is try- ing to usurp the rights of indi- vidual people. The funny thing is, they think that what they are doing is not only O.K., but also that its right. Hmmm ... let's re- write the constitution a littlehit here ... The First Amendment: freedom of .speech, freedom of the press, freedom of Uncle Sam to regulate the freedom of his nieces.... Article 12, section f, line 23: \Thou shaH give birth to any child conceived in thy womb, regardless of circum- stance.\ Are we talking about rights here? I don't want to attack the philo- sophical question of whether or not an unborn baby has a right to be born, but since when does the decision to have a baby concern anyone but the potential parents? And ultimately, in a biological sense, the baby is the responsi- bility of just the mother. It seems reasonable that the right to have an abortion be kept in her hands, especially now, in the Age of the Rap.ists (previously thought to have come before the .A:ge of Rep- tiles). Fortunately, several thou- sand women and a significant number of men showed up on the green to remind Washington of the absurdity of what it proposes to do. Did they get the message? If they did, it was certainly due in large part to the fi.fteen Union stu- dents wh0 participated (really). And hey-it was fun, too; a day in the sun, more people standing up for their bel,iefs than Profes- sor Zwicker could count, and did I menthm? I almost got arrested ... but never mind that. Focus on the gravity of the issue at hand. and what you as an indi- vidual could do to help keep our government in line. There is another protest sched- uled for May 6th in New York City. Someone from Union will likely be going, if not a whole van or three. If info. is not posted. or you just don't see it, you can call Kate @ 346 - 5142. And if the idea of protesting for Women's Rights irks you, look at it this way: this is participatory democ- racy at its best (for around here, anyway), and really, you never know what they'll try to regulate next. It could be you. Philosophy Forum Attends Conference At Tufts by Adam Roe Co11tributing Writer The Philosophy Forum, the week- end of April seventh and eighth. took a trip to Tufts University to attend a conference. The New England Undergraduate Philoso- phy Conference featured speak- erslikeDaniel Dennettand Judith Jarvis Thomson. The conference was also an opportunity for un- dergraduates to submit and present papers they had written on various philosophical topics. The aim of the conference was to pro- mote serious philosophical dis- cussions by undergraduates. The conference was a perfect forum for students to present and be ac- knowledged for their hard work. Dennett turned out to be an electrifying speaker who talked about a project he is involved in. The project deals with artificial intelligence and is in collabora- tion with graduate students from M.I.T. They are working on a robot which has the capacity to learn and find interest in its· sur- roundings. The name of the ro.- bot is ''Cog.\ Cog has many modern features which are de- signed to make it as human as possible. For instance. on its hands are sensory strips. If Cog picks up a bottle and breaks it by squeezing too hard, it can learn from breaking the bottle so that next time it encounters some- thing similarly fragile, Cog would be able to hold it and not break it. The most amazing fact about Cog is that it learns via experience. This is a brea:k- through in artificial intelligence as we know it and who knows what the possibilities are with such a project. DEnnett, when asked if it is moral to shut Cog down, said he would have tore- spond in ten years, when the project has made more progress. If anyone is familiar with Dennett, this project is linked in with his Multiple Drafts Theory and the question whether or not Cog is a conscious being. Judith Jarvis Thomson spoke with poise and concern about anti-abortionists mor;il views. Thomson presented two good ar- guments. one for the anti-abortiOn position and one for the pro- choice position. Her presentation gave the full range ofpro-iife and pro-choice options. Thomson is known mostly for her work on ethical theory. During the day on Saturday, undergraduate philosophy stu- dents from various schools around the nation .and Canada presented their papers. Those who were not presenting, were welcome to listen to any of the presentations. After each presen- tation was given, the students conducted an open forum of philosophical discussion. Some- times the discussion remained on the topic being presented and other times the discussion strayed from the issue at hand and delved into other philosophical battles. The Philosophy Forum arrived back safely at Union and looks forward .to planning next year's trip. We anticipate a larger crowd next year to join us at Tufts. The next Philosophy Forum meeting is on Wednesday April26, time to be announced. ave You Been To A Good Restauran ately? If So Write About It For Features Call Alexis At ext. 5726

Page 18 • April20, 1995 • The Concordiensis Features Students Attend N.O.W. Protest in Washington, DC By Peter Sorensen Contributing Writer A man walked into a bar, straight up to the bartender. and asked for a glass of water. The bartender pulled out a gun and pointed it :11 tht> !-'liY The guy -:aid th:mk ynn :tnd \1\.':\lked nut \Jnt exactly ) 11lH l'\ t•ryd;t;. ,,c currence. hut hey-- I wa~ in a hurry: I came t0 D .C' to march on our nation·~ CapitoL not to waste my time with pugnacious bartenders. We took the Metro to the Washington monument. and as we exited there was a notice- able air of protest~ plus, there were just way too many T-shirt vendors. Actually. it was the slogans on the shirts which would have tipped off a pass- erby: to name a few. \my will to survive caused me to submit to my rapist\ and \we're Newt gonna take this.\ If you haven't been keeping abreast of national affairs (like me up 'till the day before we left). you may !lOt know that the Senate ;s consid- ering the Contract for America Bill. and part nf :t mvolves making abonion illegal. Some- how. the suits in DC. decided to be try to regulate a very es- sential aspect of being a woman-and by essential. I mean only to clear up an obvi- ous point: men don't have ba- bies. and women only.have their own. Anyone else who gets in- volved is overstepping their bounds. What is going on here? The march began at the Wash- ington monument and began heading for the reflecting pool made famous by our now-national :con. Forrest Gump. near which a large podium was set up. I witnessed the procession from the side. and was mildly sur- prised to see among the masses delegations from both Bryn Mawr and Amherst Colleges. \singin' songs and a-carryin' ~igns.\ some of which. I must admit. were rather explicit. Fireside- A.Silet\Of . - .• Schen~~t=ldY! by Sarah Ruth Evans & .· K~~netl\Hi\4t~~tt CfJ\tWtlJit~~htl. · 'Wtit~r:¢c · Write for Features More power to them. Speeches were made by several Women's Rights activists, and the whole protest was graced with perfor- mances by Toad the Wet Sprocket and Luscious Jackson. Those are just detai.Js. What actually happened at our nation· s capitol speaks to a sig- nificant problem in our \free\ society-our government is try- ing to usurp the rights of indi- vidual people. The funny thing is. they think that what they are doing is not only O.K.. but also tbat its right. Hmmm ... let's re- write the constitution a little bit here ... The First Amendment: freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom of Uncle Sam to regulate the freedom of his nieces.... Article 12, section f, line 23: \Thou shall give birth to any child conceived in thy womb. regardless of circum- stance.\ Are we talking about rights here'' I don't want to attack the philo- sophical question of whether or not an unborn baby has a right to be born, hut since when does the decision to have a baby concern anyone but the potential parents? And ultimately. in a biological sense, the baby is the responsi- bility of just the mother. It seems reasonable that the right to have an abortion be kept in her hands, especially now, in the Age of the Rapists (previously thmtght to have come before the Age ofRep- tiles). Fortunately. several thou- sand women and a significant number of men showed up on the green to remind Washington of the absurdity of what it proposes to do. Did they get the message? If they did, it was certainly due in large part to the fifteen Union stu- dents who participated (really). And hey-i,t was fun, too: a day in the sun, more people standing up for their beliefs than Profes- sor Zwicker could count, and did I mention? I almost got arrested ... but never mind that. Focus on the gravity of the issue at hand. and what you as an indi- vidual could do to help keep our government in line. There is another protest sched- uled for May 6th in New York City. Someone from Union will likely be going. if not a whole van or three. If info is not posted, or you just don't see it. you can call Kate@ 346-5142. And if the idea of protesting for Women's Rights irks you. look at it this way: this is participatory democ- racy at its best (for around here. anyway), and really, you never know what they'll try to regulate next. It could be you. Philosophy Forum Attends Conference At Tufts by Adam Roe Contributing Writer The Philosophy Forum. the vvet:k- end of April seventh and eighth. took a trip to Tufts University to attend a conference. The New England Undergraduate Philoso- phy Conference featured speak- ers like Daniel Dennett and Judith Jarvis Thomson. The conference was also an opportunity for un- dergraduates to submit and present papers they had written on various philosophical topics The aim ofthe conference was to pro- mote serious philosophical dis- cussions by undergraduates The conference was a perfect forum for students to present and be ac- knowledged for their hard work. Dennett turned out to be an electrifying speaker who talked about a proJect he is mvol ved m. The project deals with artifictal intelligence and is m collabora- tion with graduate students from M IT They are working on a robot \\<hich has the capacity tu learn and find interest in its· sur- roundings. The name of the ro- hot is ·Tog .. Cog has manv modern features which are de- ::,IgncJ to make 1t as human as possible for instance. on its hands are sensory strips If Cog picks up a bottle and breaks it by squeezing too hard. it can learn from breaking the bottle so that next time it encounters some- thing similarly fragile, Cog would be able to hold it and not break it. The most amazing fact about Cog is that it learns via experience. This is a break- through m artificial intelligence as we know it and who knows what the possibilities are With such a project. DEnnett, when asked if It IS moral to shut Cog down. said he would have to re- spond in ten years. when the project has made more progress. I f anyone i s fa m i I i a r w i t h Dennett. this project is linked in With his Multiple Drafts Theory and the question whether or not Cog is a conscious being. Judith Jarvis Thomson spoke with poise and concern about anti-abortionists moral views Thomson presented two good ar- guments. one tor the anti-abortion pos1t10n and one for the pro- choice position f ler presentation gave the full range of pro-life and pro-choice options. Thomson is known mostly for her work on ethical theory. During the day on Saturday, undergraduate philosophy stu- dents from various schools around the nation and Canada presented their papers. Those who were not presenting, were welcome to listen to any of the presentations. After each presen- tation was given. the students conducted an open forum of philosophical discussion Some- times the discussion remamed on the topic being presented and other times the discussion strayed from the issue at hand and delved into other philosophical battles. The Philosophy Forum arrived back safely at Union and looks forward to planning ne7<..t year's trip We anticipate a larger crowd next year to join us at Tufts. The next Philosophy Forum meeting is on Wednesday April 26, time to be announced. -----------------., ave You Been To A Good Restauran ately? If So Write About It For Features Call Alexis At ext. 5 726

Arts & Entertainment Bruce Davidson: A Life in Photography Courtesy of Performing Arts Department Bruce Davidson, photographer, will be giving a lecture with slides ofhis photogr!lphs titled A Life in Photography on Wednesday, April 26 at 7 pm at Union Col- lege. The lecture will be in the College Center Auditorium Davidson will trace his photog- raphy from boyhood to maturity including work since his early teens through twenties and on until present age, and back again This lecture is part of the Depart- ment of Visual Arts 1994-95 vi- sual artist lecture series titled Figurative Issues. Davidson is a renowned pho- tographer who lives in New York City and works with the illustri- ous Magnum photo agency. His work has appeared in Vogue. Vanity Fair, Life, Esquire, Mirabella and many other impor- tant publications around the world. His phot0graphs are in Important collections such as Museum of Modern Art (NYC), Metropolitan Museum of Art (NYC), Walker Art Center, Mu- seum de Tokyo (France), Smithson ian, and the I nterna- tional Center for Photography (NYC). Davidson has published important books ofhis work in- cluding East 1 OOth Street, Bruce Davidson: Photographs, and Sub- way. His most important work includes series of photographs about the civil rights movement: The Dwarf: The Teenage Gang photographs (Brooklyn): The Subway. NYC: life in Central Park, NYC: England: and other photographic essays. Bruce Davidson was the first photographer awarded a NEA photography fellowship. He was awarded a second NEA, a Guggenheim Fellowship, and an American Film Festival Award for film fiction. His photographs have been exhibited extensively all over the world and he has di- rected three movies. Davidson began photography in his early teens in Oak Park, Il- linots. Later, he attended the Rochester institute ofTechnology and Yale University. After mili- tary service in 1957, he worked ''Selma, Alabama\ 1963, by Bruce Davidson. for LIFE magazine for a year be- Paris. fore joining Magnum Photos, Inc. Davidson's film \Living Off He received a Guggenheim Fel- the Land\ was shown on CBS and Iowship in 1962 to photograph the received the Critics Award from Civil Rights Movement. In 1963 the American Film Festival. His the Museum ofModern Art gave last film, \Isaac Singer's Night- him a one-man exhibition that mare and Mrs. Pupko 's Beard'\ included his essays \The Dwarf'. won tirst prize in fiction at the «Brooklyn Gang\ and \En- American Film Festival. gland\. He received the first pho- His recent work is a collection tography grant from the National of color images made in the New Endowment for the Arts in 1966 York subways during one year. and spentthe next two years pho- In 1982 the International Center tographing one block in New of Photography exhibited this York City-East 1 OOth Street. This work as a dye transfer exhibition. project was published in 1970 AperturepublishedSubwayinthe under the same title by Harvard fall of 1986. The Smithsonian University Press and was a major Institution presented a large ex- exhibition at the Museum of hibition of his work in 1987 at the Modern Art. His most recent book, Bruce Dav;dson Photo- graphs published in 1979 is a col- lection of twenty years work with text that traces his artistic devel- opment from boyhood to matu- rity. The work was exhibited at the International Center of Pho- tography, The Walker Arts Cen- ter, and at Museum de Tokyo in Museum of American Art. Bruce Davidson is an important figure in 20th century photogra- phy and specifically in the docu- mentary mode. He has been an inspiration for many younger photographers pursuing thedocu-· mentary approach. This lecture is free and open to the public. \Drive-in: Tiny Nazors\ 1963, by Bruce Davidson. (Courtesy of tile Union College Arts Dept) The Concordiensis • April20, 1995 •Page 19 Voodoo Magic: A Novel of a Legendary Queen -----------.- vived suppression by blending by Suzanne Robinson A & E Co-Editor Recently out in paper is Jewell Parker Rhodes' extraordinary de- but novel, Voodoo Dreams. The novel is based on the life ofthe legendary New Orleans voodoo queen Marie Laveau, who was a black woman living among sla- very and oppression during the 19th century. Even though this her first novel, Rhodes has al- ready reached a level of storytelling only few have been to. AU who read her novel enjoy it immensely, from Whoopi Goldberg to the Los Angeles Times, who finds it \an over- whelmingjoumcy navigated with skill and imagination.\ Rhodes is an English professor at California State University, Northridge, and even though this is her first novel, .she has written many short stories, that led to her receiving the National Endow- ment for the Arts Award in Fie- tion. \I tell stories that I need to be- lieve in, stories that help me through life. Believing that my heroine can survive inspires me to survive. Believing that she can empower herself lends me her power,\ remarks Rhodes. «I wanted to write a book that ap- pealed to people's hearts and minds. I wanted to present Laveau as a mythic heroine - someone who embodied the won- der, vulnerability, and the power of being a woman. r wanted to show haw African rei igions sur- with Catholicism. And I think Voodoo Dreams appeals to any- one who loves a good story.\ \The book captures the essence of voodoo ceremonies, of spirits possessing, and guiding displaced souls. I want the reader to feel the magic and disorienting force ofLaveau'sdreams. But I want her fever, her dreams to carry the reader to a place beyond that, to the ecstatic moment of poetic lyri- cism when Laveau li..terally walks on water. I want the reader, through these dreams, to connect to a spiritual tradition and gain an understanding of voodoo beyond media stereotypes.\ Currently Rhodes is working on her second historical novel about a race riot in the 1920's. She also is planning a sequel to Voodoo Drams which will chronic the life of Marie Laveau' s daughter, also named Marie, who incarcerated her mother, assumed her identity and took her place as spiritual leader. The two lives of mother and daughter are so closely weaved that historians have trouble deciphering where one woman's reign ended and the other's started. This evolved into the belief of an immortal presence in New Orleans in that Marie Laveau never did die. As the author states, this book is for \anyone interested in spiri- tual quests, interested in histori- cal fiction. Lovers of New Or- leans culture. Anyone interested in a novel about passionate people living in as sensual, extraordinary world.\ Broadway Beckons to Spring Culture Lovers by Leena Mankad A&E Co-Editor Spring term is an excellent term for traveling, maybe, just getting away for the weekend. With sea- sonable weather, New York City becomes an easy drive and a great place to escape to when campus life gets on your nerves. Broadway is one of the many highlights of this city. Where else can you have your pick of high caliber shows all within minutes of each other? Broadway be- comes a magical place at night. With the bright lights and dressed up crowds, the city seems more awake in the night than even the daytime But from all the shows running, which one do you choose? Here's a compilation of the major shows on Broadway: There is of course the long-time running shows which include The Phantom Of The Opera, Miss Saigon, Les Miserable, and Cats. These shows, along with the tal- ent of composer Andrew Lloyd Webber seem to give Broadway it's definition. In the spotlight of these shows, other fine produc- tion sometimes get overlooked. Celebrities from the big screen have taken a bite out of Broad- way. Glenn Close is extraordi- nary in Sunset Boulevard. On a stage set splashed with brass and - gold, Close plays an intense role in an Andrew Lloyd Webber pro- duction. Jerry Lewis stars in Damn Yankees, a musical com- edy about baseball in the fifties. He plays a satanic figure to a char- acternamed Joe who sells his soul to Lewis to join the Big Leagues. Lewis' comic appeal makes au- diences roar. Even Ferris Bueller (Matthew Broderick to those of you that know him out side of that movie) is on Broadway in How To Succeed in Business Without really Trying .He does a wonder- ful job and his show is really a crowd pleasure. Other hits include Kiss Of the Spider Woman. Crazy For You, Show Boat, Call Me Madam, Jelly Roll, Blood Brothers, Grease with Brooke Shields, Gentleman Prefer Blondes, and last but not least, Beauty and The Beast at The [palace theatre. You don't have to pay an arm and a leg to go see these shows either. One can go to the half price ticket booth in Times Square and usually get decent seats for $20- $30 . This is an organiza- tion that buys tickets in bulk and then sells them for less- Yes, they're legal, and no they're not Mafia run either. Have fun Write for .A.EIE!!! CaULeeaaor

Arts & Entertainment Bruce Davidson: A Life in Photography Courtesy of Performing Arts Department Bruce Davidson, photographer, wiH be giving a lecture with slides ofhis photographs titled A Life in Photography on Wednesday, April 26 at 7 pm at Union Col- lege The lecture wiU he in the College Center Auditorium Davidson will trace his photog- raphy from boyhood to maturity including work since his early teens through twenties and on until present age, and back again This lecture is part of the Depart- ment of Visual Arts I CJQ4.Q) Yi- sual artist lecture series titled Figurative Issues Davidson is a renowned pho- tographer who lives in New York Citv and works with the illustri- ous Magnum photo agency His work has appeared in Vogue. Vanity Fair. Life. Esquire. Mirabella and many other impor- tant publications around the world His photographs are in Important collections such as Museum of Modern Art (NYC). Metropolitan Museum of Art (NYC). Walker Art Center. Mu- seum de Tokyo (France). Smithson ian. and the 1 nterna- tional Center for Photography (NYC) Davidson has published important books of his work in- cluding East JOOth Street. Bruce Davidson: Photographs, and Sub- way His most important work includes series of photographs about the civil rights movement The Dwarf: The Teenage Gang photographs (Brooklyn)~ The Subway. NYC. life in Central Park, NYC, England~ and other photographic essays_ Bruce Davidson was the first photographer awarded a NEA photography fellowship. He was awarded a second NEA. a Guggenheim Fellowship, and an American Film Festival Award for film fiction. His photographs have been exhibited extensively all over the world and he has di- rected three mov1es. Dav1dson began photography in his early teens in Oak Park, Il- linois. Later. he attended the Rochester institute ofTechnology and Yale University Afler mili- tary service in 1957, he worked \Selma Alabama\ 1963, by Bruce Dm,idson. for Ll FE magazine for a year be- fore joining Magnum Photos. Inc He received a Guggenheim F el- lowship in 1962 to photograph the Civil Rights Movement In 1963 the Museum ofModern Art gave him a one-man exhibition that included his essays \The Dwarf'. \Brooklyn Gang\. and \En- gland\ He received the first pho- tography grant from the National Endowment for the Arts in 1966 and spent the next two years pho- tographing one block in New York City-East 1 OOth Street This project was published in 1970 under the same title by Harvard University Press and was a major exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art. His most recent book. Bruce Dav;dson Photo- graphspublished m 1979 isacol- IectiOn of twenty years work \Vith text that traces his artistic devel- opment from boyhood to matu- rity The work was exhibited at the International Center of Pho- tography, The Walker Arts Cen- ter, and at Museum de Tokyo in Paris. Davidson's film \Living Off the Land\ was shown on CBS and received the Critics Award from the American Film Festival. His last film, \Isaac Singer's Night- mare and Mrs Pupko 's Beard'' won first prize in fiction at the American Film Festival His recent work 1s a collection of color images made in the New Y ark subways during one year. In 1982 the International Center of Photography exhibited this work as a dye transfer exhibition_ Aperture pub! ished Subway in the fall of 1986. The Smithsonian Institution presented a large ex- hibition ofhis work in 1987 at the Museum of American Art Bruce Davidson is an important figure in 20th century photogra- phy and specifically in the docu- mentary mode_ He has been an inspiration for many younger photographers pursuing the docu- mentary approach. This lecture is free and open to the public. \Drive-in: Tiny Nazors\ 1963, by Bruce Davidson. (Courtesy oftlle Union College Arts Dept) The Concordiensis • April 20, 1995 •Page I 9 Voodoo Magic: A Novel of a Legendary Queen \'ived suppression by blending with Catholicism. And I think Voodoo Dreams appeals to any- one who loves a good story.\ by Suzanne Robinson A & E Co-Editor Recently out in paper is Jewell Parker Rhodes' extraordinary de- but novel, Voodoo Dreams. The novel is based on the life of the legendary l'\c\\ Orleans 'uoJuu l)Uecn Marie L.!H..:au, \\ho \\JS a black \~oman li\ ing among sla- very and oppression during the 19th century Even though th i~ lu.:r fir~t no\el. Rhode:, ha::, al- ready reached a Inc! or :>torytdlmg onl) fe\\ h..t\e bccn to All \\hl) reaJ her nmcl elljL)_\ tt immense!;.. from \\'huup1 Goldberg to the Lo~ Angeles Times. who finds it \an over- \vhelmingJourne~ na\ igatcd \\ith skill and imagination ·· Rhode::, 1::. an Lngl1sh pwt\:s~ur at California State L:ntverslt~. Northndge, and cven though tim 1s her first novel, she has written many short stories, that Jed to her rcceivmg the National Endo\\- mcnt for the Arts Av\ard in Fie- tion. \I tell stories that I need to be- lieve in, stories that help me through life Believing that my heroine can survive inspires me to survive Believing that she can empower herself lends me her power,\ remarks Rhodes. \I wanted to write a book that ap- pealed to people's hearts and minds I wanted to present Laveau as a mythic heroine - someone who embodied the won- der, vulnerability, and the power of bemg a woman I wanted to show haw African religions sur- \'The book captures the essence of ·voodoo ceremonies, of spirits possessing, and guiding displaced ~oub I \\Jilt the reader to fed ~he llli.lgt..: anJ JJ::,onentmg fvrce vf La\ eau ·::. Jrcam::. 13ut I \\'-lilt lu.:r k\Ver her dreams to earn the , - reader to a place beyond that, to the ccstatic moment ofpoet11.: lyrt- ~t::.m \\hen Lneau lnerall) \htlk.:. on \\Lttt.:r I \\ant the reader. tlln.Jugh the::.e dn..:am::,. to connect 11• ct ~r mtualnaJitton anJ gattl an lllll_kr:::.lJlldmg or\ uuJuu bc;.unJ n11:dta stcrcoty pes · Current!\ Rhodes 1s \\orking on her second histoncal no-..el about a race not 111 the I 9~0 · s Sh~ a!::,u 1::. piannmg a seyud lu l\ovJuu Dram:, \dllch \\Iii chronu: tl1c I ill: of Mane Ln cau · ~ daughter, also named Marie. who incarcerated her mother, assumed her Idt::ntit) and took her place as spintuallcader The t\VO lives of mother and daughter arc so closely weaved that historians have trouble deciphering where one woman· s reign ended and the other's started_ This evolved into the belief of an immortal presence in New Orleans in that Marie Laveau never did die. As the author states, this book is for'\anyone interested in spiri- tual quests, interested in histori- cal fiction_ Lovers of New Or- leans culture. Anyone interested in a novel about passiOnate people living in as sensual, extraordinary world.\ Broadway Beckons to Spring Culture Lovers by Leena Mankad A&E Co-Editor Spring tennis an excellent term for traveling, maybe, just getting away for the weekend. With sea- sonable weather, New York City becomes an easy drive and a great place to escape to when campus life gets on your nerves. Broadway is one of the many highlights of this city. Where else can you have your pick of high caliber shows all within minutes of each other? Broadway be- comes a magical place at night. With the bright lights and dressed up crowds, the city seems more awake in the night than even the daytime. But from all the shows running. which one do you choose') Here's a compilation of the major shows on Broadway There is of course the long-time running shows which include The Phantom Of The Opera. Miss Saigon, les M isemble, and Cats These shows, along with the tal- ent of com poser Andrew Lloyd Webber seem to give Broadway it'sdcfinition In the spotlight of these shows, other fine produc- tion sometimes get overlooked. Celebrities from the big screen have taken a bite out of Broad- way. Glenn Close is extraordi- nary in Sunset Boulevard. On a stage set splashed with brass and gold, Close plays an intense role in an Andrew Lloyd Webber pro- duction Jerry Lewis stars in Damn Yankees, a musical com- edy about baseball in the fifties He plays a satanic figure to a char- acternamed Joe who sells his soul to Lewis to join the Big Leagues Lewis' comic appeal makes au- diences roar Even Ferris Bueller (Matthew Broderick to those of you tl1at know him out side of that movie) is on Broadway in How To Succeed in Business Without really Trying .He does a wonder- ful job and his show is really a crowd pleasure. Other hits include Kiss Ofthe Spider Woman. Crazy For You. Show Boat, Call Me Madam, Jelly Roll, Blood Brothers. Grease with Brooke Shields. Gentleman Prefer Blondes, and last hut not least. Beauty and The Beast at The [palace theatre Y0u don't have to pay an arm and a leg to go see these shows either One can go to the half price ticket booth in Times Square and usually get decent seats for $20- $30 This is an organiza- tinn that hu~ s tidets in hulk anJ then sells them for less- Yes. they're legal, and no they're not Ma!la run either Have fun Write lor ASE!!! Call Leena or

Page 20 • Apri120, 1995 • The Concordiensis Arts & Entertainment Friday: A Lighter Slice of South Central Life Psycho is Back Courtesy of New Line Cinema Friday, written by Ice Cube and D.J. Pooh, follows a day in the life of Craig Jones, a South Cen- tral homeboy who's doing his best to sidestep the pitfalls of growing up in .the 'hood. The movie is scheduled to be released April 28th. Rapper and actor Ice Cube (Boyz N the Hood) makes his motion picture comedy .debut in the New Line Cinema film Fri- day, featuring an all-star cast of actor-comedians including Chris Tucker (House Party 3), Bernie Mac (Who's the Man?), John Witherspoon (Boomerang), Street Fight•r Released On Home Video courtesyofMCA Universal MCA will release the live-ac- tion, martial arts fantasy, Street Fighter, starring Jean-Claude Van Damme and Raul Julia on video- cassette June 20 an laserdisc June 27. Inspired by the popular video game series that has earned nearly $2 billion wordwide, Street Fighter is written and directed by Steven E. de Souza(\48 Hours\ \Die Hard\) In Street Fighter, Jean-Claude Van Damme and the late Raul Julia wage a no-holds-barred battle of strength and skill for the face of humanity. Van Damme plays a Colonel Guil, an Allied Nations commando who leads an unlikely band of street fighters on a cove1i mission to rescue relief workers from the psychotic self- styled warlord General M. Bison. \From the star's point-of-view, Street Fighter is a tremendous oppurtunity to create an action film that the entire family can enjoy, \ says Jean-Claude Van Damme. ''I have been fortunate enough to develop a big follow- ing with children who primarily know mw from seeing my films on television. Since this film rated PG-13, this is an oppurtunity for those kids and their parents to share a motion picture ad venture together.\ Reynaldo Rey(White Men Can't Jump), Faizon Love (Meteor Man), and Angela Means (Blankman). The film also stars Regina King (Higher Learning, Poetic Justice), Nia Lm:tg(Made in America), Paula Jai Parker (FOX-TV's \Roc\), and Anna Horsford (NBC-TV'.s \Amen\). Not <mly did Friday begin with Craig losing his gig at the shoest()re, his insanely jealous girlfriend Joi (PaulaJai Parker) is sweatin' Craig's every move. This situation is making it diffi- cult for 'Craig to get a rap on with Debbie (Nia Long), a fitness in- structorwho' s also the most beau- tiful girl in South Central. And to make matters worse, Craig's best friends Smokey (Chris Tucker) and Big Worm (Faizon Love) are in the midst ofa shady deal that's gone sour. Before the sun sets in South Central, Craig has to get Smokey out of some serious financial trouble, land anew job before his parents ev·ict him, escape Joi long enough to win Debbie's heart, and survive a climatic confrohta· tion with Deebo (Tiny \Zeus\ Lister), the neighborhood men. ace! Says Ice Cube of his debut as a screenwriter and comedic actor: \I wanted to make a comedy about everyday people that you see in the neighborhood. This is a story of two guys just kickin' it and the things that happen to them in their lives on this one day. There's a lot of comedy that takes place on the street that people don't even lock in on because they're living it.\ Friday is directed by veteran music video director Gary Gray (director of videos for Ice Cube, Queen Latifah, Cypress Hill, and Mary J. Blige). The film is pro- duced by Ice Cube and Pat Charbonnet. W.E. Baker is co- producer and associate producers. are Andre Robinson, Jr. and D.J. Pooh. Friday is written by Ice Cube and D.J. Pooh. Accompanying the movie, there is a soundtrack, also entitled Friday, which is due in stores April ll, It will include Ice Cube, Dr. Dre, Cypress Hill, Scarface, ,Bootsy Collins & Bernie Worrell, Mack 10, E-A-Ski, Tha A lkaholiks, 2 Live Crew, Threat, The Isley Brothers, and Funkdoobiest aH gathered to- gether, The first single, \Keep Their Heads Ringin\' by Dr. Ore, will be commercially available March 6. The video for \Keep ... \ will be directed by Dr. Dre's former N.W.A cohort Ice Cube. Their reunion on the set will no doubt be a powerful preview to their Helter Skelter project dropping later this year. The b-side of \Keep ... \ is \Take A Hit\ by Ice Cube protege Mack I 0. Says Ice Cube of the album, 'The Friday record is da joint. It's the perfect soundtrack for everyday people and everyday life in the hood.\ Steve Stern and David Lynch to Perform courtesy of NY State Writers Institute in Page Hall, 135 Western A v- enue, on the University at Albany's downtown campus. The screening is sponsored by the New York State Writers Institute's Spring 1995 Classic Film Series and is free and open to the public. Directed by David Lynch and courtesyofMCA public relatioiiS Award-winning novelist and shortstmy writer Steve Stem will read from his work on Thursday, April27, 1995 at 8 pm in the As- sembly Hall ofthe Campus Cen- ter on the University at Albany's uptown campus. The reading, free and open to the public, is sponsored by the New York State Writers Institute. and Harry Kaplan's Adventures Underground (1991). Stern's second collection of stories, Lazar Malkin Enters Heaven (I 987), won the Edward Lewis Wallant A ward for Jewish-A-merican fic- tion. In addition, he authored two children's books and a collection of novellas, A Plague of Dream- ers, which was on the NY Times list of Notable Books of 1994. Stern has received grants from the Tennessee Arts Commission, the Tennessee Literary Arts As- sociation, as well as fellowships to the MacDowell Artists Colony. He is currently Associate Profes- sor of English at Skidmore Col- lege. starring Kyle MacLachlan, ,.op Tan Isabella Rossellini, and Dennis _ . __ . __ .. Hopper, Blue Velvet is a startling Stem's work primarily deals with Je\Wish culture and living in the American South. His first collection of short stories, Isaac and the Undertaker's Daughter ( 1983), won a Pushcart Writer's Choice Award, and the title story received the 0. Henry Prize. He is the author of two novels, The Moon and Ruben Shein (1984) mixture of naivete, eccentricity, M OVI·es and perversion. It depicts the . underside of! ife in a picture-per- 1-------------1 feet small town that is fraught 1------------1 The David Lynch film Blue Velvet (American, 1986, 120 min., color) will beshownonFri- day, April 28, 1995, at 7:30pm with drug addiction, sadism, and murder. Rossellini gives a tour- de-force perfonnance, and Blue Velvet is said to be an artistic tri- umph. For additional infonnation contact the Writers Institute at 518-442-5620. The Communicator- Newspaper Internship The Communicator, a new community-based non-profit newspaper serving the Hamilton Hill and Vale neighborhoods of Schenectady, NY is seeking interns to serve as journalists/associate editors. Responsibilities include research and writng for feature stories, volunteer coordination, and development ofnewspape_r format and subject areas, Course credit may be available. No stipend. Time period can bearranged with Editor. Schedule can be flexible. Contact: Rosemary Benedict Tlte Communicator 612 Union Street Schenectady, New York 12305 (518) 393-9003 I. Bad Boys, starring Will ~mith 2. A GoofY Movie 3. Tommy Boy, Chris Farley 4. Don Jean DeMarco Marlon Brando 5. Circle of Friends, Minnie Driver 6. Dolores Claiborne, Kathy Bates 7. Outbreak, Donald Sutherland 8 . . Rob Roy, starring Liam Neeson 9. Forrest Gump, Tom Hanks 10. Major Payne, Damon Wayans

Personai!Classifieds Personals To the brothers of~ Y: Thanks for the great party. We'd love to do it again sometime. Love, f«l>B · Scott- Although I am \not your girl- friend \ it does not mean we can ' not snuggle .. Let's rekindle that old flame, and pretend vousey is .asleep next to us. I need you now. -Julie McBrien- Are you ready for the four day haze? 1 know I am. I'm looking forward to your next voice mail message. - your drinking buddy SWF is searching for that special SWM to entertain her .in the darkroom. Must have own cam- era and equipment. I am wait- ing for your replies. AJ- Hotter than who on nickel beer night? Very cute. - your censor AR- 1 really am as pure as the driven snow! Really, I swear! Sedwich- You are the best Editor I ever had. In fact you are the only Editor I have ever had. -your cartoonist Roomie- We really should get a pad lock for our door. Either that or are- ally big 'DO NOT DISTURB' sign. It might alleviate the frus- tration that often occurs. -D SM, SF, DW, EB- Nice game all. Make sure you replace aH your divets. - Schmertl Dirty- We never play anymor.e. Where have you been? -The Gang To the administration in charge- Nice idea on planning a Crosstalk when no one is going to be here. Get a clue and try again. - Act of Apathy 10 1 OF- Sorry about the weekend and NH trip. We'll make up for it later. - LS To \Oh Great One\- To bad we had to put off the tub. Can't wait for the rain check. -Love, \B\ To the Gang- l am sorry I haven't been around much. I really miss hanging out. This weekend we definitely need to have some good old fashioned fun. Thanks for understanding. Love always, Dirty I need a beer! Make that five; To the Wonder Twins- Thanks for making my Monday and Tuesday nights so much fun. It is certainly and interesting time. Two are better than one! -Sed (wich) Dear Elvis- Your hair still sucks. I have one word for you: Flo-Bee. -your loving brother P.S. - Stop catching crabs! If you are interested in joining the Comcordy, please contact Diana at ext. 6155. Wearelookingfor writers, copy editors and lay out editors. The Concordiensis • April 20, 1995 • page 21 Classijieds GRADS or soon to be! Looking for a· change or something new? Na- tional Company looking for tal- ented individuals with positive attitude, teachable and motivated a must. Training provided. For more information call 452-9749 Europe $169 o/w Caribbean/Mexico $189 r/t California $129 If you can beat these prices start your own damn airline. Air- Tech Ltd. (212)219-7000 info @ aerotech.com ATTENTION: EARN MONEY READING BOOKS! Up to $500 weekly. Choose subject matter. For more details call: (206) 362-4304 ext E041 SENIORs· · If you are interested in speaking at the Baccalaureate or Commence- ment, submit a 1-4 page draft (approx. 5 min.) to Judy Ludwig, Sec- retary to the Dean of the Faculty and a member of the Commence- ment Committee, by Friday, April 21. The topic is yours to choose. Please include your ID number, name, box number and phone num- ber on your draft. If you are interested in singing at the Baccalaureate or Commence- ment, please submit your name to Judy Ludwig by Friday, April21. If you would like more information about this, contact Judy Ludwig at 6010 or at the Dean of the Faculty's Office on the second floor of the Administration Building. Auditions for speakers and singers will be held by the student mem- bers of the Commencement Committee in late April or early May. Sign up for an audition time when you submit your draft or name to Mrs. Ludwig's office. PHCE UNIVERSITY SUMMER SESSION LERHN. Don'tjust hit the beach, hit the books this summer and get a head start on your next semester. --~-;~-EH-SE-SEN~;~-~···;;; SUM-M-ER CL;;;--S CHEO-~~E-·-- ........ _l NAME:---------------- I SS#: I Enroll in one or both of Pace University's summer sessions. Courses are available in a wide variety of areas. From Business to Computer Science & Information Systems to Arts & Sciences, Nursing and Education. And six-week sessions allow for plenty of summertime living. LIVE. Summer session students enrolled in at least 6 credits may live on either the New York City or Pleasantville campus for only $56 a week. Amazing when you consider all you'll be close to ... the South Street Seaport, Greenwich Village, Little Italy, Chinatown and Central Park. Not the city type? Then consider our Pleasantville campus, where you'll find swimming, jogging and tennis facilities. REGISTER. Don't procrastinate! Spaces are filling up quickly, so register today. SUMMER SESSION 0 HEGINS JUNt S.l99S I SUMMER SESSION @ HEGINS JULY 17. 199S FOR MORE INFORMATION, CALL 1•800•874•7223, EXTENSION 1886 OR SEND IN THE COMPLETED COUPON. COLLEGE CURRENTLY ATIENDING: ---------- YEAR OF GRADUATION: ------------- COLLEGE ADDRESS: ____________ _ CITY/STATE/ZIP: _____________ _ 1-!0MEADDRESS: -------------- CIT\'/STATE/ZIP:. ______ ~------- COLLEGE PHONE: _____________ _ HOME PHONE: _____________ _ 0 I'M INTERESTED IN LIVING ON CAMPUS PLEASE SEND SCHEDULE TO: 0 COLLEGE ADDRESS D HOME ADDRESS MAIL TO: PACE UNIVERSITY ADMISSION INFORMATION CENTER PACE PLAZA, NEW YORK, NY 1 0038 rPACEI • UNIVERSITY i • '--\~- YOI~ _(!_TT ~EST(HURIJ AAIB86 I ,, ' L

Meetings Calendar Page 22 Union College April20-30,t995 CAMPUS EVENTS Thursday, 04/20/95 9:00a-12:00p NCUR 95, see Center Spread 12:00p-3:00p . Nott Memorial Open for Viewing, NOTTMEMORIAL Friday, 04/21/95 9:00a-l 0:45p NCUR 95, see Center Spread 9:00a-l :30p Nott Memorial Open for Viewing, NOTTMEMORIAL Saturday, 04/22/95 9:00a-2:00p NCUR 95, see Center Spread 9:00a-1 :OOp Nott Memorial Open for Viewing, NOTTMEMORIAL Sunday, 04/23/95 12:00p-l O:OOp Nott Open for Viewing, NOTTMEMORIAL Monday, 04/24/95 7:30p-9:30p Rosina Femhoff- Performance, \The Snow People\ by JSU, CC AUDITORIUM Tuesday, 04/25/95 12:00p-10:00p Nott Open for Viewing, NOTTMEMORIAL Wednesday, 04/26/95 12:00p Holocaust Memorial Day, JSU, CCATRIUM 12:00p-l O:OOp Nott Open for Viewing, NOTTMEMORIAL 7 :OOp Lecture: Bruce Davidson, Photographer, CCAUDITORIUM Thursday., 04/27/95 8:00a Holocausts Memorial Day, JSU, CCATRIUM 12:00p-l O:OOp Nott Open for Viewing, NOTTMEMORIAL 4:30p 7:00p Speaker: Dr. Michael Frohlic, \Homeotic Gene Homologs\ Biology Seminar, SS103 Reception, Latino Heritage Month, HH OLD CHAPEL 8:00p Speaker: Dr. Bernita Berry, \Race & Ethnic Relations: Living in a Multicultural Community\ CC AUDITORIUM 8:00p Talk By Writer Agnes Ross, HUMANITIES 115 Thursday, 04/27/95 8:00p Brentano String Quartet, College/Museum Series, MEMORIAL CHAPEL Friday, 04/28/95 12:00p-5 :OOp Nott for Viewing, NOTT MEMORIAL . 7:30p-10:00p Speaker: D. A. Carson, Intervarsity Chris tian Fellowship, MEMORIAL CHAPEL . Saturday, 04/29/95 12:00p-5:00p Nott Open for Viewing, NOTT MEMO RIAL 7:00p Dutch Pipers, Garnet Minstrels, Hamilton Special K, NOTT MEMORIAL . Sunday, 04/30/95 12:00p-1 O:OOp Nott for Viewing, N.OTTMEMORIAL 3 :00p-5:00p Feroza Labonne- Piano Recital Performing Arts, ARTS 215 MOVIES Show Times are 8:00 & 10:00 pm unless otherwise indicated. Sunday, 04/23 Monday, 04/24 Friday, 04/28 Saturday, 04/29 Sunday, 04/30 Admission $2.00 \Nell\ CC AUDITORIUM . ' \Nell\, SOCIAL SCIENCES 016 \Hoop Dreams\ CC AUDITORIUM \Hoop Dreams\ CC .AUDITORIUM \Hoop Dreams\ CC AUDITORIUM SPORTS Thursday, 04/20/95 3:00p Women's Softball vs. New Paltz, ALEXANDER FIELD Sunday, 04/23/95 2:00p Men's Lacrosse vs. St. Lawrence, ASTROTURF (BAILEY FIELD) Monday, 04/24/95 4:00p Men's Tennis vs. Vassar, ALUMNI GYM TENNIS COURTS Wednesday, 04/26/95 3 :30p Men's Lacrosse vs. Albany, ASTROTURF (BAILEY FIELD) Thursday, 04/27/95 3 :OOp Women's Softball vs. Albany, ALEXANDER FIELD Saturday, 04/29/95 1 :OOp Baseball vs. Hobart, Central Park 1 :OOp Women's Softball vs. Hamilton, ALEXANDER FIELD

Sports Track Takes Small Squad to Williams; Albany Up Next by Mi.ke Leding Sports Staff This past weekend at the Wil- liams Invitational the Union College Track and F·ield Team tooka decimated crew to Will- iarnsdueto the holidays and they represented Union quite well. The team left .early therefore they do not know what place they .finished out of about twenty t~ams, but they do have their personal stats. The top six placed and there were a plethora of personal records recorded. Linda Seymour started the day off for the women in the 5000 meters, and ran it in 20': 14.8. Nadine Filosi qualified for states in the 100 meter high hurdles with a time <;>f 16.6s. Clarissa Buckner recorded a personal best in the 100 meters with a 15.0s. The women ended the day with a personal best in the Distance Medley Relay, the team of Amelia Audette, Nadine Filosi, Kelly Jamieson,. and Linda Seymour ran a 14:22.6. For the men the 4x lOO started off the scoring placing third, the team consisted ofLen Mortimer, Shuron Morton, Jason Jennings, and Dave Riggi their time was a personal best ·of 44.25s. Rich Pulver won. the shot put with a throw of 54 feet. In the 400 meters Mike Leding placed sixth with a personal best time of 51. 96s. Dave Riggi finished third in the l 00 rrteters in a time of 10.9, he also placed sixth in the 200 meters. in a time of22.46 qualifying himselffor states. Ja- son Jennings recorded a personal best in the ZOO meters with a time of23.3s. In the 800 meters Nick Conway ran a 2:01.5 and Jay Goldberg had a personal best with a time of 2~08.2. Nick saved his best 800 for the Sprint Medley Relay in which theteam of Shuron Morton and Dave Riggi ran 200 meters a p-iece; Mike Ledingran a400, and Nick an 800 to finish third in a time of3:40.5. Mike Martin had per- sonal bests in the long jump and triple jump leaping distances of 19 112 feet and 40 feet 7 inches respectively. This coming weekend the team heads to Albany for an invita- tional as they fol,Jow their path towards states. \ Bowl-A~ Thon for The Vito A. Masi Memorial Center for Non.- Violence April30, 9-12:00pm Revere Lanes 1752 State St. For more information & sponsor forms, contact Maria 785-0327 Cory Yilmaz,freshman, pitches for Union (photo by L. Ruma/I'C) Baseball Hits the Skids continued from page 24 ·-- -- ~ ·- ... ----------- --- - - --·. post-seasot:J. play. Things do not stand to get much better as team captain Dave Dagostino suffered an elbow injury in the second RPI game this week. With Dagostino goes a high-powered offensive threat and a big por- tion of the team's leadership. Another senior, Keith Lombardo, has a nagging rota- tor cutfthat will keep him off the pitching·rotation for what could be the rest of the season. This means that more freshmen are getting the call and showing Coach Reynolds what's in store for future years. A few are re- ally starting to gel and have be- came integral members of the team. With these recent injuries to starting players, and because the team is not in a pennant race, mote freshmen should be getting a shot in future games. Hopefully a fewwill step up as Solodo and Kline have, and start producing some wins. The Concordiensis 41 April 20, 1995 • Page 23 ~llli~fl':t;re,al C~nadiens ;Jt '.l\l'oulti -betthe tlrst .. ,.. , ... .-....... miss the pust ... sea., )rl1i:nk Montreal fans can ·\'\*1~'i'~··~·\'\·'t·'C .. ·. w~y. ·Four years ago the tn.erir. !:l~tl.~en'l:l1;g round playoff series 1e~t ·ttr~''\ head coach Pat BurnsO house ··l'ftltle fanatical. donOt you thi1til<?~ .... tifeltfi'N~Ji;i\~~1;h~·Ra11ge:rs are trying to avo-id. becoming the~ifii:Stteftrn\JiiiitiCI~'tll,e'T97lZ•eanlldi1ens to win the Cup and miss . fue:plff;yofif$cth¢'f'()U~wingy¢ar. And although they have been · · · · bode wen for the Blueshirts lf't.rte li:tt;r1t'U'ti*'eo~lll'Utea.Jrs. e~m~mttes. Tl:le Rangers have had an ;:i\fti~\l~~ett~gJ~td;i\Qg post~ season play. They either 1991*92, 1993~94) or they do ~'tl£ .. !1 .,;·1·· 'lt('J)s,been five years since rn~'irr·wh.ich· they were not the wtrane\•. of catching Quebec, . ··.· J;t ¢0'ul~ be early tee time · •.... teams m~t fa~ored to · theSan Arttomo Spurs '>'H'l:ese teams have much in common, I!S(Ulrtnrg ttnm their eenter position;they ''A~!*f.N•ld¥\e}),n:rtJ}iorlShltp, and they both have iilaches· ·in. sports. I was shocked to hear :arru;trte.MagicOs Brian Hill are in the .· Year; Your commonplace Grant Trest cO.wd have won fifty games with either ofthese teams. That is · why· tile smart the Tnoney should be against the Spurs and the ·~Magie cdme playDfftime. It is during the playoffs where the coaching cream.nfthe crop emerges and it is those teams with those coaches that have the edge. The Hills are good, but they simply do not add up. Another year of disappointment lies ahead ..... Bobby Bonilla is offended that Met manager Dallas • Green wo·uld insi..n:uate thathis pl~yer:j did not take thf:;': ryecf?s~ sary precautions durin-g thestrike to ensure that when they re·- tum, they would do so.in good physical shape. Meanwhile, Bret Saberhagen has a sore cal( John Franco a sore shoulder, and Bonilla has suffered from back spasms after only one week .of spring· training. Come on guys! I mean, this is baseball spring training not boot. camp at Fort Knox. Bonilla, of course, refuses · t(ltaf<qrespo.nsibHit}t for his poor health. He blames his back ailment Oft a ttyoo.bQ.jjr ,~l)S rid;e he WaS forced to take t<l play a .···· · ·· ' · · · ·· ···· ' lifeforsure ..... Ku({os onl'v·st!.io~lftifstiNN:L games but making them fun . corny and perhaps the Home Games This Week Softball................ Thursday vs New Paltz Men's Tennis ..... Monday vs Vassar Men's Lacrosse •••••n Sunday vs St. Lawrence

April 20, 1995 PAGE24 arnnrnr bien sis Men's Tennis Takes Two Out of Three by Ken Berman Co-Sports Editor The Men'sTennis Team, com- ing off of a bizarre week in which they had two matches canceled, and played their first match on an elementary school-esque bas- ketball court, managed to keep their minds in a positive state for their bst three meets :\sa mat- ter of f:~ct, they lam hasted their first two opponcrlts of the week, and suffered only a dose setback in thci.r third, to cn:n up tiH;ir record at l\\n anJ I \\P r; i\CJl the ClrClliJ1'>t:tJ1Cl'S this W,l)Dll, tile) ;1rc ha \ ing .111 .1hP\ c .11 l·r.tg,· '>l\1- ·;<ln.Jc~r<ll' :hci; .t\,·r.~cL' rl·uqJ l.ast Tul·,,Lt, tilL' lllL'Illi.I\ L·il'J ·1[''-Llk to { 'tiL·a \hL'Il'('lllii1C, the ;Jr,SL' tu -,tart ,u~.:ki11b h.l\.:~ .t couple l'tic,t rluh J ight ·, the) :n-;k,Jd pPllll,kd .1 f'L-11 : tclpk~~' I ' . . l ' '- , tiL\1 tL'ililt''P ~l)l'r\ ,n.acl.,l'\- in town on Thursday with noth- ing but victory on their minds, and judging from their pre-match wann ups, that's exactly what they expected. Unfortunately, Coach Scanlon's boys had other ideas on their mind. The D~:~tchmen stonned right out of the gate (or the serving line, as it were), and won the first matches of the day. And the m iddlc ont:s And the last nncs \\1wn the dust had settled, Union had \\On once again, 9-0. This \ idory left Union's record at 2-l, and kft them \vith a streak 11f 1 ~ curlScL·uti\l: ''in~. gu.ing into S;ltur,Lt) ·\ Shabbat Shu\\U0\\11 '.\ ith St l ;t\\lL'fl(C cry p!J)cr ,1n L'niun '>\Uil, lu leave the score at 9-0, good guys. Ken Chase, noting the length of the match, said \We traveled for longer than we played.\ Interest- ing observation, Ken. This me- lee evened the Swinging Dutchmen's record at 1-1, with the third match to come two days later against St. Rose. f. '11!-, li turut, . .-1) :'Pr tile holllc :l· .111; 1 Ill· 'I I .t \He ncL· Sai.llts ['I• )\ l'c! 1\1 hL· j u:.l.t I ittk: tuu much :·,11 l ':n111l ThL· Dutchmen \\t:rC ,ti,,l '' ithuut (\\tl\lfthcirtup pia)- c' r' f .I ',\l[l n L'C~ Ill Jll ·l llU .h: rr K.hu\\it;,Juc tu .ttr•tgll Tt~ luc Duu>;h ii~U!J. Uniunlosl Lhc firsL three matches of the day, which proved to be too big of a whole to climb themselves out of They tried valiantly, but ended up los- ing by a score of 5-4. The #I doubles team of Brett Shapiro and Jason Fishbein lost 9-7, the #2 doubles team of Jordan Pinsker and Steve Chin lost 8-6, and the #3 tandem of Steve Klopfer and Ken Chase lost 9-7. Playing Real American hero Brett Shapiro returns a serve against St. Rose, (photo by Rick Lederer/TC) The St. Rose Rosies (I can't make up stuff this good) arrived singles, the team played better, but fell just short. Head honcho Steve Chin led by example, tak- ing his match 6-3, 6-4. #2 Shapiro followed suit, winning 6-1, 6-3. Jason Fishbein and Jordan Pinsker both lost their matches in close duels, but #5 Klopfer won 6-2, 6-4, and #6 Nat Smitibol won 7-5,6-1. AI- Baseball in a Slump Again by Jason Starr Co-Sports Editor Isn't it always the way. Your team can hit like crazy but can't keep the other team off the board. Then, when you finally start to get some solid efforts out of your pitching staff, the bats all of a sudden cool off. It's as ifthere is an inherent inverse relationship between offense and defense with this year's Union Baseball team. Judging from the final scores of this week's game, one would not say that the pitching staff is do- ing the team any favours. Over the last six games, the Dutchmen were outscored 33-7. But these numbers are misleading as far as the pitching performances are concerned. Senior Scott Newton threw a one-hitter against Albany on Tuesday in Union's only win of the week. Freshman Jeremy Solodo also pitched well, finish- ing all seven innings in a losing effort against RPI. Another emerging freshman force, Dave Kline, pitched a solid six innings, giving up just six hits to the same RPI team. After starting the week with a 3-0 win over Albany, the Dutch- men proceeded to initiate the five-game losing streak in which they presently find themselves. They were shut out in their next two outings, including the second Albany game. Then, three days later, the Dutchmen were still off the mark when they lost to RPI 7-0. However, let it be known that this RPI team is one of, if not the best teams Union will face all season. They are an NCAA post- season caliber team, which is not surprising considering the show put on by their starting pitcher. Our own Coach Reynolds consid- ers him to be \unhitable.\ He was just that in this game, as he did not allow a single hit. So while Sol ado pitched a good game, he was slightly overshadowed by this Engineer's no-hitter. The second RPI game was still a contest well into the fifth inning .. Starting pitcher Dave Kline could not quite compensate for the shaky hitting of his team. He held the Engineers to six hits through six innings before he was re- I ieved. It was then, in the seventh inning, that RPI exploded for five runs, making the final score 9-1. The next Union opponent was Hartwick, another consistently strong program. Scott Newton got the start again, but unfortu- nately could not match his one- hit performance recorded on Tuesday. Once again Union's bats were quiet. The Dutchmen failed to score a run for the third time in four days. There isn't a pitcher in the world who can offset a slump like that. Union ended up losing the game 4-0. The second game of the day saw a little life jump back into the Dutchmen bats. Union re- corded ten hits in this game, but they only managed to score three runs. Hitting is great for stats, but if they don't come at the right time they are meaning- less. Clutch hits have been a problem all year, and stranded runners have been the norm. A case in point of that pesky in- verse relationship: along With these ten hits came an atrocious first inning of pitching that saw six Hartwick runners cross the plate. So this orie was over be• fore the end of the first; the fi- nal was 9-3. The team now stands at 5-16, and there's little hope for any continued on page 21 theugh Klopfer was in no way singularly responsible for the loss, he took full responsibility for it. When asked why, here- plied, \Cause Messier would have done it, too\. Given this year's Ranger's season, Klopfer must have heard him do it a lot. The team continues with matches today at Albany, and at home against Vassar on Satur- day. As Klopfer (man, he just keeps coming up) said, 'These next two matches should deter- mine how the rest of our season goes. We've been playing well, but we just couldn't pull it out on Saturday.\ Well, Steve, here's to finishing the season strong. Let's Go U I Scott Porter moves in for one of his three goals. {R. Lederet!TC) Men's Lax Wins Fourth by Shaun-Paul Man ore Contributing Writer A balanced offensive attack and strong goal tending carried the Men's Lacrosse team to their fourth victory of the seasoQ past Saturday at Frank Bailey Field. The Dutchmen d·efeated Hamilton 14-5. Cory Hoi borough led the way with three goals and 3 assists while Scott Porter added three more goals. Not to be out done, Ely Benson and Justin Perkins netted 2 goals in the winning effort. Goalie Steve Rockiwicz was very impressive in the goal as he stoppc!<U ten shots, leading Union to their fourth win ofthe season. Union 1 s record now improves to four wins and three losses for the season as they make their bid for a play-off spot. Upcoming games are April 18 against a very tough Springfield team which is the top ranked Division Two men's lacr9sse team in the country. They also play St. Lawrence on April 23 and face 26. I I '· ' r,

i '· ' 'f '~ ~· .. nncorut.ensts The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877. Volume CXXIV, NumberXX Schenectady, New York . ~ Tuition Increases by 4.3% by Brandon D. Deelet Contributing Writer Recently, the Board of Trust- ees approved the tuition and fees for the upcoming year and the fig- ures are going to surprise ami shock most .students. For the 1995-96 academic year students · · will be askedto pay $26,206 dol· Iars, which is a 4.3% increase from last year's tuition Accord- ing to Diane Blake, the Vice President of Finance, it is simply a matter of economics. \There is a nationwide concern over the cost of higher educa- tion,\ said Blake Clearly the in- crease has been made after con- sidering that JliOSf students Otl campus would· see this·increase as harb-ing~r of evenworse things to come. Most people can not af- ford the price tag for one years worth of higher education .espe- cially when the price .tag for Union is more expensive than the nations average per capita in- come. It is for these reasons that cuts and changes were made in programs and dinning services, the school simply has to find ways to keep the budget balanced and keep tuition from soaring. This year, the administration found all it could cut from the budget. After intense debate and a review of the school's fin;ncial situation it was decided that it was necessary to increase tuition. According to the administration, we are lucky in that the increase was so low. Blake indicated that Union cannot continue to keep its budget balanced and provide for all its commitments to the stu- dents without raising tuition. The question still remains though, can the school continue to raise tuition without threatenjng the caliber and the ability of students to pay for it? The answer according to the administration is that tuition in- creases will always be a necessity but here at Union the price may be getting too high. Even a4.3% increase is too much and accord- ing to the VP ofFinance, the 4.3% increase is expected to be the minimum increase for the next couple of years barring any fur- ther cuts which seem to be loomft in_g in Albany and Washington. The school is planning for the future on a very short timetable, one that is governed by what hap- pens to the money it is getting Continued on page 3 Students Provide Counsel~ng Services by Elizabeth K. DeKoven News Editor Last year, one student made a formal report indicating that she had been date raped. This year, no formal complaints have been filed. According to Kate Schurick, Associate Dean of Stu- dents at Union College, these numbers are not \indicative\ of what really happens on campus. Hence, the decision was made by a group of students to form an or- ganization called Safe Space to provide support for men and women who have been involved in a sexual assault, rape or sexual misconduct, and to promote awareness. Lisa Schneider, Andi Wilson, Kate Durocher and Chuck Rod- man, a group of Seniors, and Mike Nelson, a sophomore, es- tablished the organization as the result of events that transpired within the Sexual Misconduct Committee, an organization de- signed to reevaluate the judiciary procedures dealing with sexual misconduct on campus. These students determined that it was necessary not to reorganize the judiciary process for sexual of- fenders, but to create a support group for victims of sexual as- saults that was removed from the administration and was run en- tirely by students. The founders of Safe Space feel that it is important for students on Union 's,campus to admit that date rape is an issue that directly af- fects them. Even though only one incident of date rape in the past two years has been formally re- ported, Schenectady's Rape and Crisis Hotline does receive nu- merous calls from students on Union's campus. Approximately twenty students have been selected through an application process to be trained to become Safe Space counse- lors, The students will be trained by one of the organization's founders, Andi Wilson, who is already a Schenectady County Rape Counselor, and other indi· viduals who are involved in rape counseling in the capital district Lists containing the names and numbers of all counselors will be distributed to students in their mailboxes, they will be posted on the doors of all Residence Assis- tants and will be listed in the stu- dent handbooks. Students who need counseling will then be able to select the name of a counselor that they know and trust or they will be able to select the name of a counselor that they do not know and will therefore be able to ob- tain anonymity. The founders oUhe organiza- tion are not expecting that Safe Space will be an immediate suc- cess. \I think that it will take a while,\ said Schneider. \What people don't understand, they mock, and we might receive a few pranks, but after a term of existence the real phone calls should start.\ Schneider and Wilson feel that date rape has been \buried\ and is \taboo\, but they feel it is im- perative that students realize that sexual assaults are a feature· of \reality\ at Union College. Celebrating Our Bicentennial April27, 1995 Union to Rebuild Engineering Curriculum by Emily Battis Concordiensis Staff During the Second World War, all ofthe technological advances such as radar and atomic energy were created by scientists not en- gineers .. After the war, engineer- ing became an increasingly more technological field than the em- pirical field that it had b<:cn In the next fifty y<:ars, the number of engineering schools increased drarnatically and as they grew the problem solving and design skills that w<:re so dominant\\ ith car- licrcngincers \\Crc 'irtu:.~ll) lo::,t There has bcen an attcm pt 111 thc .last ten years, an attempt to rclUin engineering to an empirical sci- ence without losing the strengths :ofihetedmological side. Almost a year ago, Union Col- lege was given $750,000 in a grant from General Electric to update the engineering curric~­ lum. Dean of Engineering, Rich- ard Kenyon, has spent over forty years ofhis career in engineering education. After this many years in the business, he feels it is time to bring Union to the forefront of the eNgineering education world. He wrote the proposal for the grant himself and has turned the actual planning of the changes over to Professor John Spine IIi of the Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Department and Professor Janet Anderson of the Chemistry Department. Out of approximately three hundred engineering schools in the country, currently between one quarter and one third of the institutions are rebuilding their Continued on page 3 Inside News .................. 2-3 World News .......... 4 Science & Medicine ......... 5 OP/ED ..••.••••.•.•• \ 6-8 Features ................ 9 Student Forum •..•. 10-12 A & E .•......•.... 13-14 Calendar .....•....... 15 Personals & Classifieds •... 16 Sports ............ 18-20 .'

Page ·.2 • Ap.ril 27, 1995• The Concordiensis Four Wiltds·Savatilga Springs·· · .•... -~' ·{iili).,~Sri#l<i~ilfi\iyi;\''<·; %:;·.; ... •.'r······· · Albany Medical€ellltW (Eat.lngDisord.ers,Glmi~),AJbany (51''8)44$::5299''''';~.,, .•. , .... ,,.,,..,. . • .. ,. Campus News UNION COLLEGE ~AMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY INCIDENT SUMMARY TUESDAY, APRIL 18. 1995 THROUGH MON()AY. APRIL 24. 1995 DATEffiME LOCATION TUESDAY, APRIL 18. 1995: 12:00 AM Fox North 1:20AM Social Sciences 1:40AM Potter House 11:21 AM Bailey Field 12:50 PM Nott Memorial 1:30PM Alexander Field 3:00PM Raymond North 7:04PM College Center 8:46·PM South College 9:19PM College Center.' INCIDENT PROPERTY DAMAGE: Window brok~n-cause undetermined. VANDALISM: Partition in rest room damaged. TRESPASS/HARASSMENT: Visitor attempting to enter residence hall and taunting residents. Campus Safety located and identified suspect. SPD contacted-suspect arrested for tr~spass and harassment. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Violation of alcohol policy regaFding o.p~ containers. Debris strewn about astto-turffield. VANDALISM: Handset for courtesy telephone removed. ANIMAL: Studellt bitten and injured by an unattended dog. Dog owner identified and advised regarding heath regulations. ASSAULT: Student struck by another student and visitor. Incident occurred 4/9/95. · THEFT: Student's ID anq Validine card stolen. Items left unattended. Items recovered through campus mail. VANiJALlSM: Student's room door kicked in. THEFT; Student's wallet and keys stolen. Items left unattended: · Occl,trre44/17J95 ii1 the evening. Lock cores c11anged. · 7-. -· WEDNESDAY,Al»R.iL 19. 1995: .. 12: lO AM' · · · West College · 9:30·:AM .. · · ·Achilles Lot . . . ll:lOAM . . :<:· ;Alltmhi Gyin 6:12 P:M'' ·· · ·· · · B'aileyHall ·, . . '· lO:Of'P:tvf ·· · · · :· ., ·Fox.Hoits:e : . . . . . ~ . ·.· \'·• SECURiTY HAZARD: .Problem' with North side entry core'. , Locksmithitbtifted' and repair inade. · · · ··THEFT{ Student itt possession bf tire extinquisher reported: lnissfri'g fromstitdent'·s·room. CottductCharges filed . : 'FIRE· ~LARM: ·c~its~d bY worker cuttiilg inetal. · : THEFT:·F~ctilt)r -inetllber;s wid let stolen. Waller recovered : \' minus c$11> Watlet tak~il froin ttiilocked space in office area.·· , , · · · · · · · FIR.l: AtitltM: Heat detector in :first floor lom1ge Sottth. side .... acddetitaiJy ;strtt¢k' callsing alann. < • . . '·\• .. THURSDAY; APR.iL. Ifr. t995: ~:. · · 1 • • .. , , . ~ ~:. :·· ~. .,., ·: . ,. ·' • '·, • ·, 1:40AM · Ciunpus Gtdl:inds :,SUSPICIO~lS PERSON: ·Persott-·following·stiiCfettts ar'Ound 1:50AM 10:08 AM 1_2;55M . Fraternity· . . \ ···I;:dWards Ho4se . '' ' . College Center .. - : THURSDAY: APRIL 20;.1'995: 5:15PM Davidson area 10:34 PM 11:02 PM . ' Arts Buildh1g North Lane FRIDAy I AP.RIL 21. 1995: 12:30 AM 1:30AM 2:15AM 3:15AM 10:30 AM 11:03 AM Campus Grounds Fraternity Davidson West College Hickok Lot Bailey Field Davidson/Social Science area. No contact or untoward .beha~ior~ . Ar¢a ·~\tecked · S\lsped tW~ I ocated. . . HAZJNC/: StQdent ihjured:;as~ result of alLeged hazing activity. Condo,ct Charges tiled against individuals and group. · V 1\.NDAUSM:: Window·bioken • THEFT: Staffmeniber's wallet stolen from unlocked space in office area.· Wallet reco\:ered initms cash and credit cards. SPD notified . HARASSMENTffRESPASS: Stttdents being harassed by · · visitor. Suspect located, identifed and arrested for trespass and harass tnent. SPD notified and assisted . THEFT: Visitor's backpack ·stolen. Item left unattended in open area. FIRE: Minor trash fire. No damage or injury. Intentional. THEFT: Several NCURdirectional signs stolen. HARASSMENT: Staff tnembers subjected to verbal abuse. . DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Aottles being tlu:own from roof. Noise complaint-loud tnusic. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Student became ill as a result of alcohol abuse. Conduct Charges filed. SAFETY HAZARD: Gasoline leaking frmh parked car. Owner notified. Leak neutralized. MISCHIEVOUS BEHAVIOR: Evidence of acting out, untoward behavior on astra turf field. 3:00PM South College area LIFE 'sAFETY VIOLATION: Rootn tire extinquisher fotmd discharged and discarded on grounds. Life Safety Violation Notice tiled. 5:09PM Campus Grounds SAFETY HAZARD: Campus vehicles driving on sidewalks. Operators advised. 5:30PM West College SAFETY HAZARD: Open flame-candles in use. Candles ~ extinquished by dining staff. . 5:40PM West College MISCHIEVOUS BEHAVIOR; Shavit'lg cream sprayed on walls 4th floor hallway. : 5;42 PM West College FIRE ALARM: Caused by steam frorn 4th floor shower. SATURDAY.APRIL 22 • .1995: 1 :02 AM Chi Psi Lot 10:12 AM S&E 8:45 PM Chi Psi SUNDAY, APRIL 23, 1995: 6:15AM Yulman Theater 3:40PM Webster 6:35PM notified. 9:47PM Chi Psi South College SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Student intoxicated/incoherent. Assisted. Conduct Charges filed. THEFT: Wallet stolen from student's unattended backpack. Incident occurred between Noon-4PM on 3rd floor Southside. SECURITY HAZARD: Entry door lock core tampered with- locking mechanisln disabled. Locksmith notified. LOST/FOUND: Raleigh bike found abandoned. THEFT: Electronic equipment stolen from student's rootn. Occurred over long weekend. No evidence of forced entry. VANDALISM: Entry door handle removed from door. Locksmith THEFf: Student's athletic equipment stolen from laUt1dry room. Items 1 left unattended for several days.

Page.2 • April27, 1995• The Concordiensis Campus lttfo------ Eating Disorders Are Serious! lfyou or someone you lmow has a problem ,there is help ... C.R.A.E.D. (Capital Region Association for Eating Disor- . ders) (518) 581-7698 Four Winds Saratoga Springs, NY (518) 584-3600 Albany Medical Center (Eating Disorders Clinic) Albany ( 518) 445~5299 Center for Psychotherapy and Eating Disorders Union St. Schenectady, NY (518) 374~0.511 Support Groups ·Sponsored by C.l\.~\\~ ·-- ... ~•· .. free coq~­ dential and meet once a month frQm7;.~ ,,.9;QOPM on tli.~ following schedule: · · · First Tu,~i;Jay: Ellis Hospi:t~ , Second Sunday: Bellevue Eta dministmtiian· · n ' 1 . ..1' 2211\ T· · .·.·. 0 ' 't.>l.::l. n..t • :ollll~Jlflli• . \1 -lt~Y'\'~' ¥J,f\~\'~~ Schenectady, N¥ ·· \~. ··· + . A Reappointment Review· fessors Hun, Scaife (chair) to investigate the teaching scll:Olany service ofProfessor Mary Carrors .• · · suhmit testimony to Professor Scaife in the Department of Chemis .. try. Third Year Review for Prafessor Brenda Johnson. Per· · sons wishing to submit written comments concerning Pro~ fessor Brenda Johnson's qualifications should do so by maif . to : Professor William Zwicker, Mathematics Department, Bailey Hall. . The Department of Classics is conducting a reappointment . review of Scott Scullion, Assistant Professor. Ali members · of the Union community are invited to submit written com- ments on his teaching, scholarship and service to the Col- lege. Please send comments to Professor Mark Toher, De- partment of Classics. Tbe Department of Eng.lish wiH be conducting a reap .. pointment revjew of Hugh Jenkins. AU members of the Union Community are invited to submit written comments on his teaching, scholarship, and college service. Please send com .. ments to Jordan Smith, Chair, Department of English. The Physics Depar.tment is conducting a reappointment review ofProf. James McWhirter. Members qfthe Campus Community are invited to provide comments to the commit· tee in care ofFrofess9r Jay Newman, department chair. Whale Watch '95 Provincetown,CapeCodMay6&7. Come join us for another adventure on the high seas. Leave Union on Saturday at &AM, arrive Marconi Bea~h at 2:PM. Enjoy an eveningofsight ... seeing, shoppingandeatingintbe f0nn~p whale port of picturesque P:rovincet()wn, Hoard the [)Qlphin Fleet v .on Sunday for 4 hours of whale watoni:ttg. Return to port for lunch and then back to Union by 9·,,)1,. li0 PM. Cost $35 includ~sbus, ·· · · whalewatdh; M. iaK.e\J&it~tH~iil\Qar .. vation with··. · · S324 DATEfflME UNION COLLEGE CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY INCIDENT SUMMARY TliESDAY, APRIL 18, 1995 THROUGH MONDAY, APRIL 24, 1995 LOCATION INCIDENT Campus News TliESDAY, APRIL 18.1995: I 2:00 AM Fox North I :20 AM I :40 AM 11:21 AM 12:50 PM 1:30PM 3:00PM 7:04PM 8:46PM 9:19PM Social Sciences Potter Hmtse Bailey Field Nott Memorial Alexander Field Raymond North College Center South College College Center PROPERTY DAMAGE: Window broken-cause undetennined. VANDALISM: Partit·ion in rest room damaged. TRESPASS/HARASSMENT: Visitor attempting to enter residence hall and taunting residents. Catnpus Safety located and identified suspect. SPD contacted-suspect anested for trespass aAd harassment. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Violation of alcohol policy regarding Op<fn containers. Debris strewn about astro-turffield. VANDALISM: Handset for courtesy telephone removed. ANIMAL: Student bitten and injured by an unattended dog. Dog owner identified and advised regarding heath regulations. ASSAULT: Student struck by another student and visitor. Incident occurred 4/9/95. THEFT: Student's ID and Validine card stolen. Items left unattended. Items recovered through campus mail. VANDALISM: Student's room door kicked in. THEFT: Student's -wallet and keys stolen. Items left unattended. Occurred 4/17/95 in the evening. Lock cores changed. WEDNESDAY. APRIL 19.1995: 12: 10 AM West College SECURITY HAZARD: Problem with North side entry core. 9:30AM 11:10 AM 6:12PM 10:01 PM Achilles Lot Alumni Gym Bailey Hall Fox: House Locksmith notified and repair made. THEFT: Student in possession of fire extinquisher reported missing from student's room. Conduct Charges filed. FIRE ALARM: Caused by worker cutting metal. THEFT: Faculty member's wallet stolen. Wallet recovered minus cash. Wallet taken from unlocked space in office area. FIRE ALARM: Heat detector in first floor lounge South side accidentally struck causing alann. THURSDAY. APRIL 20. 1995: 1 :40 AM Campus Grounds SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Person following sttJdents around 1:50AM 10:08 AM 12:55M Davidson/Social Science area. No contact or untoward behavior. Area checked suspect not located. Fraternity HAZING: Student injured as a result of alleged hazing activity. Conduct Clmrges filed against individuals and group. Edwards House VANDALISM: Window broken. College Center THEFT: Staff member's wallet stolen from unlocked space in office area. Wallet recovered minus cash and credit cards. SPD notified. THURSDAY: APRIL 20. 1995: 5:15 PM Davidson area 10:34 PM 11:02 PM Arts Building North Lane FRIDAY. APRIL 21. 1995: HARASSMENTffRESPASS: Students being harassed by visitor. Suspect located. identifed and arrested for trespass and harass ment. SPD notified and assisted. THEFT: Visitor's backpack stolen. Item left unattended inopen area. FIRE: Minor trash fire. No damage or injury. Intentional. 12:30 AM 1:30AM 2:15AM Campus Grounds THEFT: Several NCUR directional signs stolen. Fraternity HARASSMENT: Staff members subjected to verbal abuse. Davidson DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Bottles being thrown from roof. 3:15AM West College 10:30 AM Hickok Lot Noise complaint-loud music. SUBSTANCE ABl.ISE: Student became ill as a result of alcohol abuse. Conduct Charges filed . SAFETY HAZARD: Gasoline leaking from parked car. Owner notified. Leak neutralized. 11:03 AM Bailey Field MISCHIEVOUS BEHAVIOR: Evidence of acting out, untoward behavior on astra turf field. 3:00PM South College area LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Room fire extinquisher found discharged and discarded on grounds. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. 5:09PM Campus Grounds 5:30PM West College 5:40PM West College 5:42PM West College SATURDAY, APRIL 22. 1995: 1:02AM Chi Psi Lot 10:12 AM S&E 8:45 PM Chi Psi SUNDAY, APRIL 23, 1995: 6:15 AM Yulman Theater 3:40PM Webster 6:35PM notified. 9:47PM Chi Psi South College SAFETY HAZARD: Campus vehicles driving on sidewalks. Operators advised. SAFETY HAZARD: Open flame-candles in use. Candles extinquished by dining staff. MISCHIEVOUS BEHAVIOR: Shaving cream sprayed on walls 4th floor hallway. FIRE ALARM: Caused by steam from 4th floor shower. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Student intoxicated/incoherent. Assisted. Conduct Charges filed. THEFT: Wallet stolen from student's unattended backpack. Incident occurred between Noon-4PM on 3rd floor Southside. SECURITY HAZARD: Entry door lock core tampered with- locking mechanism disabled. Locksmith notified. LOST/FOUND: Raleigh bike found abandoned. THEFT: Electronic equipment stolen from student's room. Occurred over long weekend. No evidence of forced entry. VANDALISM: Entry door handle removed from door. Locksmith THEFT: Student's athletic equipment stolen from laundry room. Items I left unattended for several days.

Campus News The Concordiensis• April27, 1995 • Page 3 Crosstalk Ignites Decision-Making Controversy by Heather Reynolds Editor-in-Chief Emeritus Approximately one hundred students, faculty members, ad- ministrators, and staff attended last Wednesday's Crosstalk con- cerning what role students should play in determining campus poli- cies. The panehsts included Steve Lapinski, IFC President; Profes- sor Alan Taylor, a member of the Planning and Priorities commit- tee; President Roger HuH; Liza Korber, a student trustee; commit- tee, Dean of Students, Fred Alford; and Piana Sed1ta, The Concordiensis Editor-in-chief. The President of the lFC gave an emotional statement, question- ·ing why the administration hadn't considered other alternatives to their new rule of requiring all on- campus students to be on the meal plan. This new requirement would force Greeks to close their kitchens, and ac.cording to Lapinski remove an important part ofthe Greek experience. President Roger Hull defended the decision and the process by which it was made by explaining that it was a decision made at the eleventh hour, atter Pataki's an- nouncementofcuts in state fund- ing for financial aid. He said that this proposal had come up for the past three years, but he had sim- ply discarded it in the past be- cause they, the Planning and Pri- orities Committee, had found other ways to cut expenditures from the already \fat\ budget of Union College. This y~ar, they had created a balanced budget, again rejecting the requirement of all on-cam pus students being on the meal plan, but Patak i' s announcement left them in the lurch. According to Hull and faculty member Alan Taylor of the Planning and Pri- orities Committee, there was no- where left to cut. They had a very short time to decide how to cre- ate a new balanced budget with- out the state aid, and had to find an expedient manner to do this. They decided to go to the two student trustees and to have a closed-door meeting with the Stu- dent Forum \to get student input within the rather short time- frame. Reservations were voiced by both groups of studen~s, but the new meal-plan requirements were gone ahead with anyway. David Levine, Kojo Attah,. and Nate Coffi':J. all ~;embers of the Student F·orum, commented on this closed-door meeting, and if it truly allowed the students to be represented in this decision. Levine and Attah argued that without being allowed to go back Panelists listen intently at last Wednesday;s Crosstalk (Photo by Laurel Ruma /The Concordiensis) to the st4dents and gather input they could not act as true repre- sentatives of the student body. Professor Scott Scullion also spoke to this point, stating that without an informed constituency there can be no representative. Coffin felt that under the circum- stances it was the best decision that could be made, but had he to do it over again he might have made a different decision. Liza Korber, one of the stu- dents on the board of trustees, said she thought the reason stu- dents were feeling so helpless in policy-making, was that even though the President was request- ing student input, our desires. could not always be taken into account because of complicated fiscal reasons. Even though our input may be asked for, there will always be decisions that will have to be made that won't please all the people all the time. A member of one of Union's fraternities expressed to Roger Hull his disdain of recent deci- sion-making policies. He told Hull that when a letter came in the mail asking him to donate money to Union it would go to his fraternity first, the IFC second, and the College last. Other stu- dents, independents and Greeks, expressed similar sentiments to the President. The heated debate on the topic carried on until 10:30, when time was calted by moderator Lisa Schneider, a senior. NCUR Weekend: A Success East Asia Progr~m Spring Picnic by Martin Metz ConcordiimsiS Staff This past weekend, Union was the site of the National Confer- ence on Undergraduate Research. The feedback on campus from students. faculty, administrators, and the NCUR board of gover- nors has been extremely positive. This year marked NCUR's ninth meeting and was also one of its largest. There were close to 1, 700 visitors on campus and I, 100 aca- demic presentations. Some of the new additions to the Conference this year were the International FOODFEAST, and the ARTSFEAST. People were given a chance to sample differ- ent ethnic foods and then had the opportunity to experience a wide array of artistic talent including a visual. arts display i·n the arts building, a dance exhibition in the Yulman Theater, and a Brass Quintet in the Memorial Chapel which played student composi- tions. Both additions, initiated by Union organizers, were consid- ered a great success, and the NCUR board of governors is even recommending the ARTS FEAST event to the next host ofNCUR, University of North Carolina at Asheville. While academic presentations in the past have been mostly in the scienc_es, NCUR has been try- ing to incorporate more of the arts and humanities. In addition to the ARTSFEAST, there were 51 En- glish Literature presentations, and 50 History presentations. One of Everyone is invited to celebrate El Carnaval Directed by Lisandra Ratnos Com.e enjoy the exeiten.ent of one of the oldest Afro-Caribbean traditions: \'ftt.e Carnival\ When: April ~7, :!8, & 29 Where: Ynlman Theater Time: 8:00 PM Admission: $2.00 w/ Customs $3.00 w/o Custo:ms the chief organizers ofthe event, Chemistry professor Thomas Werner, feels that NCUR has helped bring Union to the fore- front in encouraging creative in- dividual scholarly efforts at the undergraduate level. Although there were a few mi- nor glitches, as with any large conference and some of the mod- erators were late or didn't show up for the presentations, the Con- ference as a whole ran smoothly. There were more than enough volunteers, and when moderators didn't show, people from the au- dience filled in. Professor Werner felt that \what is most gratifying about it is that its a total commu- nity effort ... like Founders Day ... where so many people pitched in and helped make it a success.\ Tuition Continuedfrompage 1 from other sources besides tu- ition. If the school is faced with more cuts, it will have no other choice than to continue raising tuition for the 45% of those students who pay full price. The tuition in- crease ofthis year may be a \low\ 4.3%, but when you are faced with a price tag this large, the dif- ference is minimal and for all those students who are worried about further increases you can expect the same or worse. This increase was so low because the administration had found other ways to raise money, but with the financial aid budget swelling, and cuts coming, students can expect this to be the last time they ever see a tuition increase this low. Wednesday, May 3 5:30 to 7:30 Behind the College Center Anyone interested in East Asia is welcome to join us for BBQ, drink and fun! Sponsored by East 1\sian Studies Program and Asian Students' Union Union Utilizes GE Grant Continuedfrompage 1 programs as Union rebuilds its own programs. Larger research institutions have not yet begun to rebuild, the changes are predom i- nantly being made by smaller in- stitutions like Union. The new curriculum currently being built will incorporate a ba- sic core curriculum for all engi- neering students. Union plans to take many ofthe science require- ments for engineers such as Phys- ics, Chemistry and Math, and combine them into one course that looks at problems and case studies involving all ofthedisci- plines. When asked how this can be accomplished in a ten week trimester term Dean Kenyon said that the course will most likely take the place of two courses and meet several times a week. By combining these different disci- plines, it enables the engineering student to see the relation between them. This move also allows the stu- dents to take their first real engi- neering courses in their first two years where as current engineer- ing students do not see their first class until their Junior and Senior years. The new curriculum will also incorporate more of the lib- eral arts into the curriculum, not necessarily a greater number of hours but a greater integration of the humanities and the social sci- ences. Dean Kenyon believes that \Engineering is less than the sum of its parts and I would like to make it greater than the sum of its parts. \ These new integrated classes will take a new look at problem solving. Problems and solutions will be looked at from a cultural, scientific, and ethical point of view. Classes will inte- grate more group work in order to simulate the way businesses work in the real world. Groups will be created for projects and then broken down and rebuilt for the next project. The opportunity for international study will be in- creased with the new curriculum. The new curriculum should be in place for the incoming fresh- men in 1996. I' ;

Campus News The Concordiensis • April27, 1995\' Page 3 Crosstalk Ignites Decision-Making Controversy by Heather Reynolds Editor-in-Chief Emeritus Approximately one hundred students. faculty mcm hers. ad- ministrators. and staff attended last Wednesday's Crosstalk con- cerning what role students should play in determining campus poli- Cies The panelists mcluded Steve Lapinski.IFC President. Profes- sor Alan Taylor. a member of the Planning and Priorities commit- tee~ President Roger I lulL Liza Korber. a student trustee: commit- tee. Dean of Students, Fred Alford, and D1ana Sedita. The ( 'vncordil!nsis Editor-in-chief The President of the IH' g,ave an enwttonal statcmcnt. LJUCStJOn- mg \\h)' thc adm111Istrat1on hadn · t considered other alternatives to their new rule of requiring all on- campus students to be on the meal plan. This new requirement would force Greeks to close their kitchens, and according to Lapinski remove an important part of the Greek experience President Roger Hull defended the decision and the process by \Vhich it was made by explaining that it was a decision made at the eleventh hour. after Pataki 's an- nouncement of cuts in state fund- ing for financial aid l Ic said that this proposal had come up for the past three years, but he had sim- ply discarded it in the past be- cause they. the Planning and Pri- orities Committee. had found other ways to cut expenditures from the alreadv \fa(' budget of Union College This year. they had created a balanced budget. again rejecting the requirement of all on-campus students being on the meal plan. hut Patak,· s announcement kft them in the lurch According to Hull and faculty member Alan Taylor of the Planning and Pri- orities Committee. there \\JS no- where lett to cut They had a verv short time to decide hmv to cre- ate a new balanced budget with- out the state aid. and had to find an expedient manner to do this !hey decitkd to go to the t\\u student trustees and to have a closed-door meeting with the Stu- dent Forum to get student input within the rather short time- frame Reservations were voiced by both groups of students. but the ne\v meal-plan requirements were gone ahead \Vith anyway David Levine, Kojo Attah, and Nate Coffin, all members of the Student Forum, commented on this closed-door meeting, and if it trul v allowed the students to be represented in this decision Levine and Attah argued that without hemg allo\\Cd to go back Panelists listen intently at last Wednesday's Crosstalk (Photo by Laurel Ruma I Tlte Concordiensis) to the students and gather input they could not act as true repre- sentatives of the student body Professor Scott Scullion also spoke to this point stating that \Vithout an informed constituencv there can be no representative Coffin felt that under the circum- stances it was the best decision that could be made. but had he to do it over again he might have made a different decision Liza Korber. one of the stu- dents on the board of trustees. said she thought the reason stu- dents \vere feeling so helpless in pol icy-making, was that even though the President was request- ing student input, our desires could not ahvays be taken into account because of complicated fiscal reasons Even though our input may be asked for, there will alwavs be decisions that will have to be made that \\on't please all the people all the time A member of one of Union's fraternities expressed to Roger Hull his disdain of recent deci- sion-making policies He told Hull that \vhen a letter came 1 n the mail askmg hnn to donate money to Union 1t \\Ould go to his rratemity first. the IFC second. and the College last Other stu- dents. independents and Greeks. expressed similar sentiments to the President The heated debate on the tl'pic carried on untillO 30. when time \Vas called by moderator Lisa Schneider. a senior NCUR Weekend: A Success East Asia Program Spring Picnic by \1artin l\letz Concordiensis Staff This past weekend. Union was the site of the National Confer- ence on Undergraduate Research The feedback on campus from students, facultv, administrators, and the NCUR board of gover- nors has heen extremely positive. Thts year marked NCUR ·s ninth meeting and was also one of its largest There were close to I, 700 visitors on campus and 1.100 aca- demic presentations Some of the nev.: additions to the Cnnference this year were the International FOODFEAST, and the ARTSFEAST. People were given a chance to sample differ- ent ethnic foods and then had the opportunity to experience a\\ ide array of artistic talent inc! uding a visual arts display in the arts building. a dance cxhibitton m the Yulman Theater, and a Brass Quintet in the Memorial Chapel which played student composi- tions. Both additions, initiated by Union organizers, were consid- ered a great success, and the NCUR board of governors isc\en recommending the ARTSFEAST event to the next host of NCUR, University of North Carolina at Asheville While academic presentations in the past have ocen mostly in the sciences, NCUR has been try- ing to incorporate more of the arts and humanities. In addition to the ARTSFEAST, there were 51 En- glish Literature presentations, and 50 History presentations. One of Everyone is invited to celebrate El Carnaval Directed by Lisandra Ratnos Come enjoy the exeite.nent of one of the oldest Afro-Ca.riLbean traditions: ''The Carnival'' When: Aprll 27, 28, & 29 Where: Tulmau. Theater Time: 8:00 PM Admission: $2.00 w/ Cu~tom.s $3.00 w/o Custom.s the chief orgamzers o fthe event Chemistry professor Thomas Werner. feels that NCUR has helped hnng Umon to the fore- front in encouraging creative in- dividual scholarlv efforts at the undergraduate level. Although there were a fe\v mi- nor glitches. as with any large conference and some of the mod- erators were late or didn't show up for the presentations, the Con- ference as a \\hole ran smoothlv There were more than enough volunteers. and when moderators didn't show. people from the au- dience tilled in Professor Werner felt that \what is most gratifying about it is that its a total comm u- nity effort ... like Founders Day where so many people pitched in and helped make it a success\ Tuition Continued from page 1 from other sources besides tu- ition. I fthe school is faced with more cuts, it will have no other choice than to continue raising tuition for the 45% of those students who pay full price. The tuition in- crease of this year may be a \low\ 4.3%, but when you are faced with a price tag this large, the dif- ference is minimal and for all those students who are worried about further increases you can expect the same or worse. This increase was so low because the administration had found other ways to raise money, but with the financial aid budget swelling, and cuts coming, students can expect this to be the last time they ever see a tuition increase this low. Wednesday, May 3 5:30 to 7:30 Behind the College Center Anyone interested in East Asia is welcome to join us for BBQ, drink and fun! Sponsored by East 1\.sian Studies Program and Asian Students' Union Union Utilizes GE Grant Continued from page 1 programs as Union rebuilds its own programs. Larger research institutions have not yet begun to rebuild, the changes are predom i- nantly being made by smaller in- stitutions like Union. The new curriculum currently being built will incorporate a ba- sic core curriculum for all engi- neering students. Union plans to take many of the science require- ments for engineers such as Phys- ics, Chemistry and Math, and combine them into one course that looks at problems and case studies involving all of the disci- plines. When asked how this can be accomplished in a ten week trimester term Dean Kenyon said that the course will most I ikely take the place of two courses and meet several times a week. By combining these different disci- plines, it enables the engineering student to see the relation between them. This move also allows the stu- dents to take their first real engi- ncering courses in their first two years where as current engmeer- ing students do not see their first class until their Junior and Senior years. The new curriculum will also incorporate more of the lib- eral arts into the curriculum, not necessarily a greater number of hours but a greater integration of the humanities and the social sci- ences. Dean Kenyon believes that \Engineering is less than the sum of its parts and I would like to make it greater than the sum of its parts. \These new integrated classes will take a new look at problem solving. Problems and solutions will be looked at from a cultural, scientific, and ethical point of view. Classes will inte- grate more group work in order to simulate the way businesses work in the real world Groups \Viii be created for projects and then broken down and rebuilt for the next project The opportunity for international study \Viii be in- creased with the new curriculum The new curriculum should be in place for the incoming fresh- men in 1996.

Page 4 • April27, 1995 • The Concordiensis World News Terrorist Car Bomb Blast Rips Through America's Heartland by Matt Sandler World News Editor Alfred P. Murrah building, a federal building in Oklahoma City, was the site of the worst terrorist attack on American soil. The buildings structure now looks like it belongs in Beirut, not in Oklahoma City where residents until now felt safe with- out having to lock their doors. The timing of the bomb, 9 a.m. Wednesday morning, was planned to maximize casualties. The children in the day care center on the sec- ond floor would have been eating break- fast, when a half-ton car bomb exploded under them. Horror was felt by all Ameri- cans after hearing about the car bomb blast, and Washington quickly mobilized for a response to this outrage. Rescue workers and F.B.I. and A.T.F. agents were dis- patched to the site to help in rescuing sur- vivors and collecting evidence. President Clinton said, \Make no mistake about it: This was an attack on the United States, our way oflife and everything we believe in. So whoever did it, we'll gettothebot- tom of it, and then we'll take the appropri- ate action.\ He also called the terrorists \evil cowards.\ The evidence trail is point- ing is to a domestic right wing group con- spiracy which was angry with the govern- ment and the Waco tragedy that happened two years ago to the day of the bombing. When asked if he thought the bombing was connected to the Middle East, Clinton replied, \This is not a question of anybody's country of origin, this is not a question of anybody' s religion. This was murder, this was evil, this was wrong. Human beings everywhere, all over the world, will condemn this out of their own religious convictions, and we should not stereotype anybody.\ Senator Bob Dole said, \The Senate stands ready to work closely with the Administration to pass the toughest and most effective anti-terrorist bill at the earliest possible time.\ The de- struction at the born b site is immense with engineers working to brace the building with supports so it does not collapse on missing people still trapped. Phil Yeager, a member of the Federal Emergency Man- agement Agency's urban search and res- cue team, said, \That whole building moves when the wind howls and there's literally thousand-:pound pieces of concrete hanging oil wires that shift.\ The death toH is at 81, with 150 people still unac- counted for. The likelihood of finding sur- vivors, with the bad weather that has im- peded rescue searches, decreases with each hour that passes. Rescuers, when they cmdd enter the building, had to climb over dead bodies to reach people in need of help, and parents and families are waiting fran- tically for any word of the status of miss- ing family members. The faces and bodies of the dead were burnt beyond recognition, and families had to identify loved ones.by their hair, and birthmarks. The F.B.I. is combing the place for clues and following the conspiracy trail: they already identified HEARTBREAK where the van came from, and have a sus- pect in custody. President Clinton has ordered all .federal buildings to fly the flag at half mast for thirty days to mourn the loss oflife. Ameri- cans are troubled by the ability of terror to reach home. Our country is no longer safe from domestic terrorism. President Clin- ton is handling this properly and decisively, condemning the bombers, and urging Americans not to stereotype anyone. Washington's action has been swift and will be severe once the \evil cowards\ are caught. The whole bombing is an atro- cious attack on the innocent; the worst part of this horror is the deaths of the children between the ages of 1 and 7. What type of . animal could wage terror bombing on in- nocent children? The F.B.I. has done ~ good job of suppressing domestic terror groups in the past, but the attack in Okla- homa City shows, as Speaker Gingrich said, \The F.B.I. should be given broad powers to infiltrate domestic organizations 'on the political fringe.\ America must act to preserve safety: law enforcement offi- cials should have greater authority to pro- tect the innocent public against any kind ofterrorist attacks. Attorney General Janet Reno, said the government would seek the death penalty, clearly, an appropriate pun- ishment. The U.S. has a sworn duty to avenge the deaths of the innocent, and as the President acknowledged,. justice will be served wherever the trail leads. Ameri- cans• hearts, minds, and prayers are all cen- tered in Oklahoma City, with this horrific act against humanity. The deaths will never be forgotten or go unanswered. Washington: I J Clinton signed the Washington Financial Rescue BiH to rescue the District ofColombia by imposing strict spending controls and striping power away from Mayor Barry and the City Council. 1 !Clinton overhauls by executive order the secrecy rules, with some execeptions, most highly classifed documents must be made public after 25 years. International: , :The United States failed to convince China to end its nuclear cooperation with Iran, or improve its human rights record. 1 I The P.L.O. and Hamas met to try and reach an accord to end anti-Israeli violence. Dole at Bat for the Presidency: Will His Third Attempt Make it Strike Three? by Marc Foster World News Staff After the 1988 election, he resigned himself to the fact that he would spend his final years of his political career as a mem- ber of the U.S. Senate. But after a series of flukes and blunders, fifty years after he was wounded in battle during WWII, Bob Dole announced on April 10 that he will seek the Republican Party's nomination for the presidency. It is sure to be his final race for the White House, in a run that un- officially began at the turn of the century. Dole was born in Russell, Kansas on July 22, 1923. In the 1930s, the Depres- sion struck, hitting his family hard. With no alternative, his parents were forced to move the family into the basement oftheir home so that the first floor could be rented out. In order to make ends meet, young Bob delivered papers and worked as a soda jerk in Dawson's Drug Store. He attended public schools where he excelled in ath- letics, as captain of the basketball team, end on the football team, and a track star- he almost broke the indoor record for the quarter mile. Then, only with a $300 per- sonal loan from a local banker, Dole en- rolled at the University of Kansas where he was a premed student, ran varsity track and played basketball. But as it did for thousands of other young men, WWII in- truded on Dole's college career. He en- listed in the Army and was commissioned second lieutenant with the I Oth Mountain Division, an elite corps of skiers and moun- tain climbers. Dole returned from the war with one kidney, a useless right ann, and almost no feeling in his left. He was wounded by a storm of hot metal after pulling a fallen comrade into a ravine while leading his pla- toon up Hill 913 in Italy's Apennine Mountains. Dole was awarded two Bronze Stars and two Purple Hearts. His record is something that Dole vig- orously defends. During the 1988 presi- dential campaign, Dole challenged rival Bush when he declared, \I have a record, not a resume.\ His political career began in 1950 when he won a seat in the Kansas State Legislature at the age of 26. From Dole must seize an issue and put forward a platform that can win widespread support across the Republican political spectrume However difficult, Dole overcame his physical disability and has ever since led a life of unadulterated politics-complete with the requisite presidential bids. Dole's record of presidential campaigning, though, has been a series of fatal errors with Dole featured as his own worst enemy. The hurdle will be the undetachable image as a hatchet-man that has plagued Dole ever since the 1976 vice-presidential debates in which his caustic remarks about Demo- cratic wars this century soured the public's regard for him: \I figured it up the other day. We added upthe killed and wounded. In Democratic wars this century, it should be about 1.6 million Americans, enough to fill the city of Detroit\ The math may have been correct, but it was a political mis- calculation for Dole; some analysts later claimed that Dole's performance during the debate cost Ford the election. Dole's penchant for the low blow reap- peared in the 1988 Republican primaries when, during an interview on NBC, he appeared with then vice-president George Bush. Given the opportunity to have the last word, Dole capitalized by remarking ..to Bush, \Stop lying about my record.\ there, he went on to the House of Repre- sentatives in 1960 and then to the Senate eight years later. Since then, Dole has served on the Agriculture & Forestry, Bud- get, Finance committees and the Select Committee on Nutrition and Human Needs. Beyond the themes of agrarian and ru- ral America that define liis native Kansas, Dole must seize an issue and put forward a platfotm that can win widespread sup- port across the Republican political spec-' trum. Dole has traditionally given the bud- get deficit first priority in his presidential campaigns, and there is I ittle reason to doubt that he'll do the same again. His stand on the issue has been unwavering. In 1984, Dole tenaciously fought the Reagan Administration in a public battle to reduce the deficit by $150 billion over three years; it was to the chagrin of the President who was running for reelection that year, but Dole persisted nonetheless. And the Senator will likely make affir- mative action a focus of his campaign. Whether he will argue fora complete over- haul of the program is unclear. More likely, Dole will make a case for tinkering with what befuddles affirmative action while eschewing the more divisive parts ofthe program. That plan of action would be typical of a man who has made com- promise the hallmark of his political ca- reer. However much compromising Dole relies upon to pass legislation, here mainssteadfast to his principles. He sup- ported the extension of 12 health programs against the wishes of President Nixon, de spite the fact that Nixon had appointed him GOP Chairman in 1971. During the Ford Administration, Dole criticized the President's attempt to cut Social Security and food stamps as \anti-people.\ Then, in 1982,while the tidal wave of Reaganomics flooded Washington, Dole quipped that .. a busof supply siders went over a cliff. Unfortunately, there were two seats empty.\ A Dole Administration would likely be staffed by veteran politicos experienced in the workings of Washington,but Dole would not rely heavily on hisadvisers nor delegate much responsibility to them. John Sears, a former Reagan adviser says, \Management is BobDole's biggest weak ness.\ If he can bury his hatchet-man persona and avoid serious mistakes, Dole should be able to hold on to his front-runner sta- tus until the end go of the primary season to face President Clinton in November, a man Dole is confident he can beat. When asked why he was running, the Senator re- sponded: \Well I've thought it over, and I think every country should have one.\ Write for World News!! Call Matt @ X6155

Science & Medicine . The Concordiensis • April 27, 1995 • Page 5 Sick? Try Designer Genes First, the scientists had to design the correct gene, which in the case of SCID was a simple task. Sci- entists knew about the cause of the disease and had isolated and sequenced both the normal and defective gene. The scientists were primarily concerned with finding a way to get the corrected gene into the eel Is. At first, both viruses and retroviruses were con- sidered for the task; it would be relatively easy to place a gene in- side a virus or retrovirus and the two are naturally adept at enter- ing cells and depositing genetic infonnation there. Unfortunately, Although this seems quite amazing, scientists are working on other methods of using gene therapy. In the case of patients with SCID, doctors at the NIH also transformed bone marrow cells with the functional gene. Bone marrow cells make the T- cells that are defective in the SCID patients body. Transfonn- ing bone cells means that active, correct T-cells will be produced, just as if the patient never had the disease. Unfortunately, this treat- ment did not work as well as the doctors at the NIH hoped. Scien- tists are still working on this prob- lem, and many others. by Dennis Popeo Science and Medicine Editor Hereditary disorders affect mil- lions of people every year. Many of the disorders end in the often untimely death of the patient. There is new hope, however,. for those that suffer from these dis- eases, gene therapy. Gene therapy is similar to an organ transplant, but instead of receiv- ing a functional. new kidney or liver, the recipients receiv.e a gene: a microscopic machine that is capable of storing information and be used to make proteins for the body. Genes are responsible for every aspect of life on the planet, and every human charac- teristic, from eye color to altru- ism. Genetic diseases are caused by damage to genes. The damage can be caused by environmental toxins, or natural cellular phe- nomena. They are often passed down through generations of families. Genes, as I have men- tioned before, make proteins, and when genes are damaged, they fail to produce the proper pro- teins. The gene that is damaged can, depending on the damage cause simple or massive prob-· lems. Hemophilia, for example, is a classical example of a genetic disorder and was passed to most ofthe European Royal Families in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Gene therapy then, can be corn- pared to an organ transplant. The defective gene is replaced by a new functional gene. The treat- ment usually consists of a harvest of abnormal cells from a patient that suffers from a genetic disor- der. These cells are then cultured and infected with a virus that has been engineered to be harmless and contain a copy of the func- tional gene. The virus,. as many viruses do, inject its DNA, which includes the functional gene, into the cells. The viral DNA then is incorporated into the cellu- lar DNA where it will be used asatemplateto make the pro- tein that is not made, or im- properly made . by the cell's defective DNA. The ce!.ls which be- ,come func- tional are re- turned to the patient's body, will settle and grow and di- vide. The first oc- currence ofhu- man gene ther~py took place on September 14, 1990 at the Na- tional Institutes of Health. The patient was a little girl with SCID -SevereCombined ImmunoDeficiency,the same dis- ease as the famous \boy in a bubble\. This disease is brought about by damage to the gene ATTENTION PREMEDICAL STUDENTS: Dr. Mark Josefski from New. York Medical College vvill soon visit the University at Albany campus to speak about medical.:careers in pri-· mary care care, an ev·e'ntpremedical students surely do not want to miss! If you will be able to attend, please call 442-3963 to add your name to the attendees list. Maps of the Uni- . versity at Albany campus were sent to your Premedical Adviser and may be photocopied, or verbal directions may be provided to you over the phone when you call. DATE: Monday, May 1, 1995 TIME: 7:00P.M. LOCATION: Lecture Center (LC) 19 which makes ADA -adenosine deaminase, an enzyme which ac- tivates immune response in the T- cells. Due to her lack of immu- nity, a simple bacterial infection, which normal people would not even be aware of, was a serious threat to her life. Some of the child's T-cells were harvested, changed and returned to her body. Later, a second little girl with the same disease was also similarly treated. Now both lead normal lives: they go to school with other children, participate in activities, and even get colds and typical childhood illnesses that are no longer life threatening. The process of gene therapy seems rather simple, but in real- ity it was a very complex treat- ment to design and carry out. vtruses .an d retroviruses have the n a s t y · habit of forcing the cell to produce more vi- rus par- ticles un- til the c e I I s bursts open. The re- searchers then de- signed a vector (a , re-bui It virus) that included the corrected gene, and the mechanism for en- tering the cell and depositing the genetic infonnation in the cell, and little else. The cells that do take up the new gene are returned into the system of the patient, where they grow and function nonnally. Doctors at the NIH are also looking towards gene therapy to cure AIDS, Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome. Research- ers are looking into transforming the T -cells that the HIV virus at- tacks into a resistant strain ofsu- per-ceHs that will not succumb to the virus. Other researchers are looking into a treatment derived from gene therapy called germline therapy. In this proce- dure, genes are inserted into the embryo during early develop- ment. The genes would cure ge- netic diseases before they ever harm the person, and since gene inserted into the embryo becomes part of the natural genetic endow- ment o.f the person, germline therapy would mean that the dis- ease would not be passed to fu- ture generations. There are about I 00,000 genes in the body that are medically important. Gene therapy would mean that if a patient needs a product of one of these genes, h~ or she can get the copy implanted, instead of relying upon medica- tion for the rest of their lives. Write for Science & Medicine Contact Dennis at X61SS WHALE WATCH '95 Provincetown~ Cape Cod May6 & 7 Come join us for another adventure on the high seas .. Leave Union on Saturday at 8 AM, arrive Marconi Beac4 at 2 PM. Enjoy an evening of sightseeing, shop- ping and eating in the former whaling port of picturesque Provincetown. Board the Dolphin Fleet V on Sunday for 4 hours of whale watching. Return to port for lunch and then back to Union by 9 or 1 0 PM. Cost of$35 includes bus, motel and whale watch. Make reservations with the Biology Department Secretary in room S&E S324 (cash payment required at time of reservation). This adventure is sponsored and supported by the Biology Club. Questions may be directed to Professor Butterstein at X6327.

. I Page 6 ·April 27, 1995 ·The Conccrdiensis Tile Student Newspaper of Union College Since I 877 Scllenectady's Oldest Newspaper Diana Sedita EDITOR Elizabeth DeKoven NEWS EDITOR Alexis Leist FEATURES EDITOR Suzanne Robinson Leena Mankad ARTS EDITORS Rick Lederer PHOTO EDITOR Stephanie Kuehn COPY EDITOR Ken Berman Jason Starr SPORTS EDITORS Mathew Sandler WORLD NEWS EDITOR Adam Richman LAYOUT EDITOR Lisa Lemoi EXECUTIVE EDITOR Dennis Popeo SCIENCE EDITOR Alex Shapiro LIVING EDITOR Brett Saunders COMPUTER MANAGER Jared Richman CARTOONIST Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR Tony LaVecchia OPINIONS EDITOR Alex Johnson BUSINESS EDITOR PHOTOGRAPHERS: Scott Druckemiller, Laurel Ruma, Deborah Proper, Laurie Kirschner. STAFF: Emily Battis, Vinod Dasa, Jeff Ellen, Sarah Ruth Evans, Marc Foster, Nalini Gupta, Mike Leding, Adrian MacLean, Martin Metz, Bharat Navani, Bhavani Mednri, Larry Paska, Billy Shakos, Rawson Thurber, Carrie Wheeler, Illisa Wood. _ OP/ED . . - ·· . EDlTORIAL . • ' • • > ' NCUR Co-Chairs and Participants Deserve Congratult~:tions This past weekend Union hosted NCUR '95 and it was a huge success. This success was made possible by Professor Tom Werner and Helen Madden. Their dedication and patience helped make the National Conference on Undergraduate Research the huge success it was with very few problems. With approximately 1, 700 visitors on campus and 1, I 00 presentations, Werner and Madden helped make NCUR one of the largest and best of past conferences. They, along with the Union students who offered their valuable input, changed NCUR from being a more science oriented conference to a more diverse one with the addition of FOODFEAST and ARTSFEAST. The numerous volunteers and students that helped organize NCUR deserve many thanks also. Their participation in the conference, whether it was academic, artistic or volunteering~ proved that Union C~llege students are interested in promoting events and aiding the Union College community. Because of their gregarious natures, the visiting presenters and faculty members felt very welcome and enjoyed their stay here at Union. As Werner stated,. NCUR was a \community effort.\ This campus unity is a perfect example of how students can make a difference and create a better Union. The success of this conference also asserts the idea that both students and faculty can and should work together to improve campus, as well as intercollegiate, relations. Once again The Concordiensis would like to congratulate Professor Tom Werner, Helen·Madden, all presenters and anyone who helped with making NCUR '95 the best any college campus has seen thus far. ' ' , LETTERS. . - - ' ' c . - ' ' . . Editorials, -Letters & Disclaimers Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP/ ED page and must be received by 5 p.m. the Monday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. Final decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed, although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and no one member in particular. Any opinion columns or cartoons reflect the opinions of the writers or artists, anq not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial Board. Advertisements appearing in The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. The Concordiensis is published eight Thursdays a term by the students of Union College. It is funded in part by the Student Activities Fee. The Concordiensis, copyright 1994, all rights reserved. Box 2577, College Center, Union College, Schenectady, New York 12308. Telephone (518) 388-6155. The Concordiensis is printed by The Leader Herald, 8-1 0 East Fulton Street, Gloversville, New York 12078. The Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press {IP), National Student News Service, King Syndicates. Submissions: All submissions are due the Monday before publication at 5 pm submitted on either Macintosh Microsoft Word disks, or MS-Dos Microsoft Word or WordPerfect disks and can be dropped off with the hard copy in the drop box outside The C'oncordiensis office on the th.ird floor of the College Center. NCUK Chairpersons Extend Thanks to Campus Community To the campus community: By all accounts, NCUR 95 was a considerable success_ The com- ments we have received from stu- dents, faculty, administrators and the NCUR Board of Governors have been overwhelmingly posi- tive, especially regarding the ARTSFEAST event Many visi- tors commented on how welcome they felt at NCUR 95. As are- sult, most left campus highly im- pressed by our campus commu- nity, as well as by our facilities. This is the second college event in two months in which a large segment of the Union community was actively involved. Just as with Founders' Day, the success ofNCUR 95 is directly the result of all of you at Union who gave freely oftime and talent. We find it especially gratifying to be part of such a community effort and extend our sincere thanks to all of you. Over the past decade, NCUR has catalyzed the move toward more independent scholarly ac- tivity in the undergraduate cur~ riculum. Union has now hosted this conference twice (both quite successfully) and regularly sends among the largest student contin- gents to all NCURs. It is indeed arguable that we can now lay claim to being the institution at the forefront of this important shift in undergraduate pedagogy. This has; and will continue to have, a significant positive impact on our external academic reputa- tion. We should all bejustifiably proud ofthisaccomplishment. In closing, we would also like to thank the staff of Concord ien- sis for their support and .coverage ofNCUR activities. Sincerely, Tom Werner Helen Madden NCUR 95 Site Co-Chairs (Retired) Attention all students!! Applications for committee positions for 1995-6 are now available in the Student Activities Office, CC408. Applications must be turned in to Student Activities by 4:30 pm on Friday, May 19th. Each committee application must be accompanied by a separate essay. You may apply for as many positions as you like .. Please add whether you intend to. go on a term abroad. If you have any questions, please contact Elissa D. Hecker at 346-9140e

D I t OP/ED The Concordiensis · April27, 1995 ·Page 7 . . ' LEr:Fr-rERS ·:.· - - - . ' ~ . ' ~ ' -. ·.. ,.._'_ ?, ' ~- ,·, .. - The Greek Systetn Should Be Made Co-ed Recently, the campus had a de- bate over the status of Greek kitchens and their future. Since we are current! y debating the pros and cons of Greek kitchens we should examine a larger question: the role Greeks play on this cam- pus and what their future should be. The Board of Trustees at Hamilton College recently voted to abo I ish the Greek system on its campus. Trinity College, in Hart- ford, is requiring all of its Greek houses to eventually become co- ed. The time has come for Union to evaluate the future of Greeks. The Administration ofthis fine college justifies requiring all stu- dents living on cainpus to be on the meal plan next year by argu- ing that the Greek system is elit- ist: not every woman who wants to be a Gamma Phi can be a Gamma Phi, nor can every man who wants to be a TDChi be a TDChi. These organizations seg- regate themselves from the rest of community and because there are so many on this campus the sense of community is diminished. If the Administration wants to fos- ter better a sense of community and school spirit they should abolish the Greek system. Why should the men on this campus have the. best housing options? Why should Psi U have one ofthe nicest living quarters on campus, just because it is Psi U? It does not own its house, yet year after year it remains there. Why are the sororities on this campus given the worse group housing? Shouldn't SDT be allowed to live in the Psi U house and Psi U try living up campus in the tiny rooms of Potter House? By abo I ishing the Greek system the campus would be rid of its sex- ist, old-boy-network ways. ·As a traditionalist I under- stand the importance of the Greek system to the identity of the school, but we should ask ~hether thi.s is the image we want. Do we want outsiders to thi~k of UAion as a school where men and women only in- teract while drunk, and only to hook-up? Themenonthiscam- pus need to learn to respect women. It is obvious from the attendance of men at Kate Koestner's talk about date rape that the men on this campus do not want to understand the women. It appeared that most o f the men who attend were forced to attended as a pledging activity and did not take it seri- ously. The traditionalist in me real- izes that the Greek system could never be abo I ished from this campus. Union's history is too deeply imbedded in this sexist tradition, as the \mother\ offrater- nities. Perhaps a more viable solu- tion that would create a sense of un- derstanding and respect between men and women at Union would be to follow in the footsteps ofKA alld D Psi D. Requiring all frater- nities and sororities to become co- ed is a step towards mutual under- standing and learning among the sexes. KA, the first society at Union and in the country, has kept up with the times by becoming coed. When men and women inter- act together as equals they treat each other as equals. As all the freshmen living in West know, when you I ive as a coed group you tend to view members ofthe oppo- site sex more as friends and less as sexual objects. . While incidents of date rape are not frequently reported on this cam- pus, they do happen; most women who are victims of date rape on this campus are afraid to come forward. If the campus had more coed liv- ing options, perchance the in- stances of date rape would lessen. When the group that gives the col- lege its accreditation last visited the campus one of their major recom- mendations was that all campus housing, Greek and non-Greek be coed. With the recent incidents of . hazing on campus be forcing all housing on campus to become coed :perhaps hazing would decrease and all students, men and women, fresh- man and seniors would be treated as equals. This is article is meant to open the channels of discussion. The members of Greek organizations are very defensive about their groups, but why should they have special status as elitist sexist clique9. Sincerely, \William D. McCann\ Local Alumnus Responds to Campus Problems To the Editor: Kudos to Rawson Thurber and Kojo TNA, whose comments in the April20 Concordiensis carry admirable fire and reason. Thanks also to Steve Lapinski and Franz Thomas Litz '91 for reminding the college community that there us an abiding inner wealth that comes from confronting greed, bullyism and venality. While it is inarguable that this Administration is about money ;:tnd buildings far more than about curricul urn and cui tural (or even collegiate) life, even these pecu- niary and erectile obsessions only subvert a more noisome purpose. That would be this President's · relentless attention to inflating his reputation, generally at the ex- pense ofthose around him. The cynical alliance with the super- marketking- culminating in this local Captain Crunch of Industry's ascension to Union's Board of Trustees - is apparent and disgraceful on its face. Schenectady 2000? I live in an adjacent historic neighborhood thaHhe President has targeted for defacement, and over which (hav- ing lost to us in both the political and public opinion arenas) he is suing the city to which he pro~ fesses to play savior. We are teachers, small-business owners, scientists, artists, doctors, retirees, young families, lawyer, engi- neers: we are ofthis city's fabric through deeds, service, a sense of love, of place, of heritage. We don't scream for photo op~ and TV cameras if we pick up a gar- bage bag on 1-890. In his malig- nant narcissism this President would have you believe we are not nice people for opposing him. Let me be blunt: we are his bet- ters, just as students and faculty who stand up for their rights are his betters, as a child running through Jackson's Garden's. or flying a kite on Library Field is his better. And I couldn't mean that in a less elitist sense. Yes, money has a lot of uses, and one of them is as a truncheon. So sue the city for whom you'd claim to be savior. Threaten an ethnic neighborhood with the loss of their biggest fund-raiser, then blame it on the \other\ neighborhood. Blame rising tu- itions and miserly treatment of faculty and staff on us, too. Tell the Wall Street Journal, disin- genuously, that it was a \sur- prise\ gift of $5 million from your mother in law that got the Nott done when we all knew five years ago that that's what got you this gig. Attention Greeks: to- day it's your food, but tomorrow it'll be your crib. And always, al- ways, it's your money. I applaud the students' awak- enifig. You do have power; at RPI it was the students who got rid of a bad president. I under- stand the sensitive position of many people on campus. But I'd urge you to hold stubbornly, if discreetly, to your principles. This guy is not going to be here forever, and when all is said and done, I don't think it will feel very good to have been his col- laborator. Davis Druschel Union '74 Stratford Road

Page 8 · April27, 1995 ·The Concordiensis OP/ED 0 • 7 ' ~ ' 0 ' o L ' < ' < ' < ' < j ' ' 0 0 < 0 ' ' : ·. ·. · · 'T VT·Tvn·s ·· · .... : .... ·. --- .. :- .:_ . . _' . ·uJ.J..ii . .I JlJ.ft - _.·, ·. ·. ·. ' ' ' - ,· ' . . ·. ' . ' ' ' . Faculty Member Responds to· Last Week's Crosstalk . . - - . . To the editor, This is addressed to those in at- tendance at the Crosstalk held on Wednesday, April 19. The topic was student participa- tion in decision-making at Union, although much of the conversa- tion turned on the recent meal plan decision, and whether or not that decision was anti-Greek. The hour was late and the line at the micro- phone was long, and so I did not have the opportunity to make my point. Five years ago I co-chaired a cGmmittee studying the status of women at Union, in honor of the twentieth anniversary of coeduca- tion at Union. Among many points in its report, that committee ex- pressed concern over inequities in housing for men and women, brought about largely by the his- torical accident ofthe Greek sys- tern. By virtue of going Greek, many men have had access to campus locations, social spaces, kitchens, and dining facilities not available to independents or most sorority members. It seemed to us that the Greek system protected a set of privileges for men which was not fair. While fraternities protest that without their efforts there would be no social life, we did not think it was fair (or for that matter, entirely safe) that Union's social life was centered in male student residences. Bud- get was not the issue in my committee's report, gender equity was. One argument made at the Crosstalk was that forcing Greeks to go on the meal plan would place a financial burden on them and limit their ability to sponsor the events ('\social alternatives\ in one speaker's words) that we come to ex.pect from fraternities. If the recent meal plan decision makes Greeks unwilling or un- able to spons.or as much of Union's social \alternatives\ as they do, and if students-both Greeks and independents -feel a social ,emptiness, then maybe we will finally see the growth in true alternatives. And this will not be an anti-Greek development. I have had many Greeks tell me that they would rather not be viewed as the only source of so- cial J.ife on campus, and I believe them. Greeks will feel less pres- sure and scrutiny when there is a more diverse social life on cam- pus, and if that diversity is the (perhaps unintended) resultofthe meal plan decision, I will lead the chorus of Hallelujahs. Douglas Klein The Union College Geology Department Presents Dr. Jane Gilotti, New York State Geological Survey Eclogites of North-East Greenland: Origins and Tectonic Implications Butterfield Hall, room 20 l 4:30 Thursday April 27. 1995 Dr. Gilotti has recently done extensive work in east Greenland, in cooperation with Danish geologists. Eclogites are visually striking rocks made of red garnet and green pyroxene. Eclogites have the same chemical composition as common gray or black basalt, but have been transformed by very high pressure metamorphism (600-900°C, pressures equivalent to at least 30 to 45 km depth). The host rocks to the eclogites are a ~ariety of granitic gneisses that include an ancient group -3000 million years old, and a younger group 1974 to 1764 million years old. The basalts (now eclogites) are in this age group. These rocks were metamorphosed, and then intruded by more granites -1739 million years old. The high-pressure metamorphism took place during collision of Europe with North America in the Paleozoic, about 435 million years ago. Come see these strange rocks and the astonishing landscape of north-east Greenland! D.epartment of Biological Sciences and the Biology Club present a seminar: ''A New Source of Evidence on the Origin of the Flowering Plants: HoRieotic Gene Homo logs'' Dr. Michael Frohlich Biological Sciences Union College Thursday, April 27, 1995 4:40PM Social Sciences 103 Refreshments 4:30PM Panel Discussion and Reception for all Women Students in Science and Engineering \Majoring in the Sciences and Engineering at Union: What is it Really L .k ?'' 1 e. Time: Tuesday, May 2, 4:30PM Place: Math Lounge Bailey Hall Second Floor Sponsored by WISE (Women in Science and Engineering

.I'·. ' . . . Features The Concordiensis • April27, 1995 • Page 9 Katie Koestner: .. Date Rape· Yes? No ... Kara Christia_. ConcordiensisStaff On Tuesday, Aptill8th, Katie KQestner. spoke in the College Center Auditorium on the issue ofdatt! rape. Koestner, a victim ·Of this vicious crime shared her story and. her. ideas on the issue. · Fqr the past year, Koestner, a recent Magna Cutn Laude gradu- ateofthe College ofWilliam and Mary, has traveled to varioushigh schools and colleges around the country telling her story, hoping to make students aware of date rape, its consequences, and its· damage. Her program is appro- priately titled \Yes? No.\ Koestner expl·ained that she never thought rape had anything to do with \boyfriends class- mates, or the guys down the street,\ until she became a date rape victim. She claimed that most people think of rapists as strangers. In fact, eighty-five per- cent of all·reported rape incidents are cases of date rape, in which the victim is well aquatinted with the rapist. Koestner's story began during her freshman orientation program at William and Mary when she caught hersel-f drooling over a certain guy in the freshman class. Soon after, Katie saw to it that she introduced herself. The two of them hit it off and over the next couple of weeks they spent their free time together. One weekend evening, Katie and her male friend returned from dinner at a fancy French restaurant and went back to her donn room. Katie explained that the mood was rather uncomfortable because her date, whowas well aware that she was a virgin, kept making sugges- tive comments and references to sex. At one point the two started kissing and when her date took it one step too far, Katie said \NO.\ They then began to argue. Her male friend told her to \stop thinking so much.\\ He feU asleep in her bed, but Katie couldn't sleep. When he awoke hours later; he told Katie he would rub her back. Once again he took ·it a step too far and once again Katie said \NO.\ Regardless, he pinned her to her bed, raped her, thanked her and left the ·room. All Katie can remember is the terror and the blood trickling out of her mouth from the hole .s.he had bit in her cheek. Katie's story got little.attention on the William and Mary campus. When Katie broug~t her case to the dean, he asked her to recon- sider her serious accusation be- fore she ruined the life of a Will- iam and Mary student. Eventu- ally, Katie's date was found guilty by the school, but his only pun- ishment was to stay out of her dorm. In his session with the dean, he admittedt.hat Katie had said \NO\ to hirn several times, but claimed he thought she changed her mind. When I<:atie' s story got no atten- tion at William and Mary, she saw to it that her case was known. She wanted to provide an awareness for other women and men. Her story was covered by a number of newspapers and magazines includ- ing The L.A. Times, The New York Times and Time. She even ap- peared on \Oprah'; and \Geraldo.\ Katie suffered. She was called a Jiar, a tease, a slut, and many other things. She lived in fear and felt there was nobody she could trust. She was all alone. When asked by a memberofthe audience if she hated men, she responded, \No women have hurt me too.\ Katie's speech, however, was not one of self-pity or anger. In,. stead, it was informative, thought- provoJ:cing, and optimistic. Her goal was to provide awareness to the Union College community. While society would like to ignore the harsh reality of rape, Katie be- lieves it cannot go ignored. She pointed out that one out of every fo1,1r women in the country is a rape victim. Only one out ofev- ery ten of these victims reports the crime. With so many victims, Katie wonders why she stands alone crying for help. Katie made it clear that no mat- ter what \NO\ means no. She says that responsibility, respect and self-esteem are important in the prevention of rape. Rape can happen to anyone, even Katie Koestner, the attrac- tive, well-rounded, A•student from William and Mary. Preven- tion and education are Katie's only hope. Here at Union, a Safe Space Group is available to women who need he! p because of a rape experience. April 28th, Schenectady is sponsoring a 'Take Back the Night Rally\ for rape victims. There is also a rally in Albany on the 30th. A Few Ideas to Help Make UniOn A· Better Place Top Ten Ways Koger Hull Could Avoid The Meal Plan Fiasco: By Rawson Thurber Concordiensis Staff by Jeffery Druzba Contributing Writer I came up with a few ideas that Union might consider to improve it's popularity with the majority of the students on campus. The administration has been facing biting criticism recently so I'm throwing these ideas out into the open. If.you see something you like, harass a student representa- tive or a school official and maybe, just maybe, it could hap- pen. (1) Union Phone Sex. Union sets up a new phone J.ine. Maybe they could work out something like that voicemail thing and get a number like *69 for easy access on campus. Of course, if you weren't on campus, you would have to dial a personal access code to use the service. It's totally free for Union students (Yes, and faculty too.) like voicemail. In- stead of recorded stuff, it could all be live. Right there we're talk- ing more work study for students. Keep the place staffe~ with 10 \operators\ 7 days a week/24 hours a day. Hey admissions, can you think of a better way to at- tract students to Union than free phone sex? I didn't think so. Imagine the brochures! It could be part of the prospective tour. Hey campus safety, no more vandalism or crime because ev- erybody stays inside on the phones at night. No hangover and no plastic cups all over the lawns after the weekend. Union needs this new s~rvice. Is there any way we could get a refund on the whole. voice mail thing and switch over? (2) How about the Nott as the hew site for Club U? The only sixteen sided and three-tiered techno club on this side of the Mississippi. With all the lights, lasers, and a big disco ball that hangs from the dome. Once again, plenty more work study jobs that people might like and I'm sure the girls in the cages would get great tips. How about a littre trust here, we won't tear the place up. What harm could a little dancing do? (3) The college changed cable companies in the fall for better reception and more channels. I've been thinking about some- thing. l\ve got my eye on that satell'ite dish sitting on top ofSci- ence and Engineering. Somebody's getting about 300 channels on this campus and it's 10: Tax all students wh.o refer to Frozen Yogurt as, \Fro Yo\. 9: Attempt to receive Federal Aid by declaring Union's food a \Natural Disaster\ 8: Increase parking ticket prices from a petty $25 charge- to a reasonable $150. 7: Instead of forcing Greeks on meal plan, encourage them to become \Hunter/Gatherers\. 6: Two words: Vali-Booze 5: Sellticketsto a Dining Service Employee Wet T-Shirt Contest 4: Hold speech entitled, \If we charge as much as Princeton, that means we're as good as Princeton~'. 3: Spend less money·on the automatic toilet flushers. 2: Tell prospective students, \They're not chanting 'Screw You' they're chanting, 'We Love You\'\ 1: Fill Nott with -whipped cream and sell tickets to the, \Only sixteen-sided National Monu ment in the Western Hemisphere with a creamy middle\. not me or anyone I know. I envision a Union ofhappy stq- dents. A Union where change is welcomed as good. A Union where anything I say is ern braced as good and right. Let's throw tra- dition to the wind and get some- thing done, I ask for signs, flyers, and demonstrations. We want 300 channels! We pay our money and we deserve the best in program- ming. We go here and we should be able to trash the Nott if we want to. We spend our money and we should have phone sex as an en- tertainment option toc.hoose from. Wearethestudents whomakethis school and we should be in con- trol. Get outthere and protest these injustices against us! I CDC Up'JateJ Student Apart~nents Available '95- '96 * Carpet * Appliances* *Furnished * Lease* *Off Street Parking* *3, 4, 6, or 7 Bedrooms* *Remodeled Throughout* Call 370 - 5498

'' Rawson Thurber What's a Junior Trustee? Well basically it's a liaison between the student body, and the Board ofT~tees who hold the purse strings to the school. The Board ofTrnstees is a group who control the way in which Union College spends its money. The Junior Trustee is an active member of that board, complete with all voting privileges~ in addition the Trustee is a voting member of the Student Forum. So what does this mean? It means that the person :you choose to represent you to the Board of Trustees must be in touch with the campus community. It is the job of the Junior Trustee to voice the concerns and complaints of the Union College student body to the collection of Trustees who make the decisions. So why pick me? Well I've been doing this student government thing for two years (both as the Freshman Class President and the Sophomore. Class President). and I've finally got the hang of it. I knmv which. clubs. do ~what.. what co.mmittees are involved in certain decisions. and I know the means by which. to accomplish a given action. In short I know how the system works. and how to go about getting things done. That's about as simple as it comes. Your elected Trustee should be somecme you know. someone you always s.ee around. and someone who will listen and act on ideas. complaints. and suggestions. I'm highly irtvoh·ed with campus activities. I'm usually in the College Center for eight hours a day. and I promise not to give the student body opinion without actually talking to members ofit. Basically what it comes down to is that r m around. I'tllisten. and l know ho\\' to get things done. V.P. Catnpus Life Ruthie Strosberg My name is Ruthie Strosberg and I \'·ant to be your Vice President of Campus Life. I am just finishing up my first year at Union and when people ask me hmv it's going, I tell them. 'it' sheen pretty good, so far.' That's not the kind of response lvewantfrom freshmen. Wewantto hear. 'Union is super fun! I can't get enough!' Right. heh?You know. there are so many amazing events that we coU:ld bring to Union and spice this carnpus· up! Let's do it! Let's bring in Chocolate Festival, and Jerry Seinfeld and the Dave Matthews Band! I am particularly interested in building a club- like atmosphere somewhere on campus and am working with the Chet's subcommittee to find that perfect spot. I am hard working and committed. I won't let you down. Vote Ruthie Strosberg for Vice-President of Campus Life. Lindsay Coppleson In the past years I have spent at Union, I have devoted the bulk of my extra-cunicular energies to theater, which became a particularly gratifYing experience. However, in the past couple months, I have found my involvement with the student government here very fulfilling. As Co- chairperson of the Springfest Committee, l have seen what it takes to be involved and motivate others commitment to this totally studentoonJO and student-funded event. Springfest is no small affair, and aspires to the biggest. funnest weekend of the year. The coordination and communication Page tO• April27. 1995 •The Concordiensis skills required to put together an e\·ent like Springfest, are two of the primary skills necessary for being an effective Vice President of C~mpus Life. I enjoy the work and I want to do it on a regular basis, so I am asking you to employ my dedication my electing me. Through my work organizing Springfest. I have worked closely with the Student ActiYities Office. the Dean of Students Office, Student Forum, Concert Committee, Film Committee, Speaker's Forum, Mountebanks, and of course the Social Committee. My ideas for Springfest on what to plan and when to offer it have become realities. I attend Student Forum meetings regularly, despite not having an official position. In addition, Jon Klein and myself hold meetings twice a week for Springfest Committee. As a young woman pursuing a career in acting. I understand well the importance of possessing the qualities of persistence and dedication. I believe the Vice-President of Campus Life, as head of the Social Committee needs to work as one who coordinates the efforts of student-run organizations so that we can maximize the availability of campus activities to the Union CollegeCommunity. In addition, V.P. ofCarnpus Life entails making sure there are forums open to as many students as possible to express themselves in whatever way they need to. If you agree with me, 1 would appreciate your vote. ·KEN CHASE The President of the Student Forum has many jobs. First and foremost it is important that this person represent the students in decision making. When doing this however. it is important to realize that one is only a representative, and not trust~ to decide for the students. In keeping with this idea. I want to make it easier for you to ha\'e your opinions .heard. You won't be required to sit through a student forum meeting when you don't haYe time. or go to a specific committee unless you feel motivated to do so. It may be as easy as picking up the phone. I intend to initiate a plan by which students Will be able to leave a \'Oicemail message in a box assigned for the forum. I will personally guarantee that any issue that you bring up, I will personally respond to within 5 days. I also plan to do this with e-mail and a campus box so that a simple note could go into a mailbox and V.P. Finance- Geremie Camara be responded to by your reJ numbers will be posted in th€ Petitio11 and sell be avail 4:00 p.r is.,also e The ·res _April2~

ded to by your representative. These ~:ill be posted in the College Center. In Randy Pellisb The future of Union College has become .a question in many students' minds. It is not the place which many of us remember. and it seems to be moving ina direction \thich many of us do not understand. Everyone is aware that Union has to make critical decisions like any other institution. but how are the decisions being made and what kind ofconsideration is being given to the students? The paths of decision-making have become a mystery to many of us. What Union needs is to imprm·e its•representative government. The student body isthefoundationartd heart of Union College. and nutst be properly represented to those people who sit at the top of the decision .. making stn:Jcture: · including our presid·ent. deans. and most importantly, the BoardofTIUStees. Representation has existed here, but it has. not been the premium it needs to be for all participants in all levels of the Union government When serving on the Board of Trustees, representation becomes even more essential. This group, to no fault oftheir0\\.11, is disconnected from the mainstream of campus life. They, more than any governing group, need ta be informed of what is going on in the minds of students. As Junior Trustee, it would be my job to see that the lines of communication between student sentiment and the opinions and ideas of the Trustees remain open; loud and dear. Union needs informative, representative voices capable ofworldng together with the Board of Trustees, communicating and e:\.-plaininghow the students feel and why. !know Union's future can be one which both students and administration will feel proud of, but it must happen in an open, cooperative environment; not one where the student body stands in the dark as to what is happening. I believe that I can serve the students in this capacity as Junior Trustee and help to restore representation as a premium at Union College. Thank you. Vice-Pr.esident of Administration - Page 12 addition to these easy ways to get in touch with me. I will provide office hours in the Student Forum workroom each week. and will schedule appointments with people who want to meet directly with me about issues. I have been on the forum this past year as a representative for the junior class I have enjoyed this position immenselJ I feel that I have the knowledge necessary to run the forum meetings and carry out the. duties of the President as l have observed the job closely throughout' the year. The main ingredient in being a good President is motivation. · t assure you that if given the chance. I will make next year memorable and involving for e\·eryone in the college community. Thank You. SETH·BROWN U N I 0 N : something that is made one : something formed by a combining or coalition of parts or members (Webster's Dictionary). I believe that a Student Forum President must work to bring the campus together. C 0 L L E G E : an organized body of persons engaged in a common pursuit or having common interests or duties (Webster's Dictionary). I believe that if we work together as a student body we can attain this goal. If elected as Student Forum President I intend to accurately represent the interests of the students. I ~viii stand up for the sentiment of the student body and fight whenever necessary. I believe that students should help make every decision which affects us. Therefore, .as Student Forum President, I intend to ask for your opinion in every situation. I would like to see a summary of every meeting in the Concordiensis. I \\-'Ould like to see the agenda of every Forum meeting publicized before each meeting. But most importantly, I would like to see the students of this college attend Forum meetings and offer their suggestions and input. As Student Forum President I will work for you, the students. On Friday make your votemake a difference- SEm BROWN FOR STUDENT FORUM PRESIDENT! :titions for Class.Representatives (sophomore, junior, d senior) and for Vice-President of Academics will available Friday, April 28th CC408 and are due by lO p.m. May 5. Anyone running for V.P. Academics ttlso eligible to. run for class representative. te results of the electio.n will be posted on Friday, ~ril28 at 5:00 p.m. in CC409. The Concordiensis • Aprill7, 1995 ·~Page 11 I I J . ... i I 1

I I . '' Page 12 • April27, 1995 • The Concordiensis Student Forum Vice..-P'resident of Adnlinistration Rachel Schaffer Brandon Declet Hi. My name is Rachel Schaffer and I am running for Vice President of Administration. Currently, I am in Washington, D.C. participating in the Congressional Internship program. However, I have not forgotten about Union College. student body. I care about the future ofUnion College and I'm concerned that the administration, at times, has run roughshod over the wishes of students. I am also interested in · preserving and strengthening the public i.mage of Union College. I want to bring a clear and pragmatic voice to the Student Forum and a strength ofpurpose to my duties as Vice President of Administration. By being involved, students havethepower to influence academic, administrative, and social · policies. However, I would like to see the students be more involved with the affairs that go on at Union College, as well as being given more influence on decision-making. Therefore, if elected Vice President of Administration, my number one goal is to make sure that the administration does not · implement policies without students' involvement. My name is Brandon D~ Declet and I am running for the office of VP of Administration. The future ofUnion and what happens to the relationship between the admin- istration and students hangs in the balance. I have never held: office on the Student Forum but after this year's fiasco involving the mandatory meal plan I have been motivated to stop complaining and run for office. I personally believe that the Student Forum needs new faces and people who can understand that it should not be a vehicle of the administration and not a bureaucratic behemoth that is just as apathetic as the rest of this campus. The Student Fo- rum has been rocked by accusa- tions ofinaction and secrecy and I think its high time that every single one of the officers is swept out so that things can get done. It is obvious that the students of this campus would like a voice and I believe that as VP of Administra- tion I can honestly represent the feelings and concerns of all ofus. ticipate in camp.us decisions but It is time to refocus on the real . t~ey can only do so if they have mission ofthe Student Forum and all the facts. The Concordiensis as an .eJected.officiafi would like is the perfect way to alertthecam- · to see a complete reevaluation of pus of impending decisions and libw it does business. Currently yet .it currently does not .publish fuere iS no vehicle by which in- the minutes ofthe Forum or any fonnation can be traAsferred from major committee on campus. As the meetings to the campus com- VP of Administration I win see , munity. lf the students don't have to itthat the Forum takes a a mor~ the necessary infOrmation then they can't be expected to act when a decision is not in their best in- terests. Students can actively par- active role in disseminating this information no matter how com- plicated the administration thinks an issue might be. I understand that this is a position that will most likely put me in opposition with the administration and other members ofthis campus, but in a representative democracy we need to question what goes on around us. lfwe don't then Union wi.ll always be the bastion of apa- thy that everyone is always com- plaining about. This Friday.April 28 get out and vote because this is the change you have been wait- ing for. Vote Brandon D. Declet for VP of Administration. As a sophomore I held the position of Vice President of Administration and therefore understand the responsibilities of the job. The major task is to oversee the activities of all clubs and committees on campus, and communicate any requests by the clubs and committees to the Student Forum. This will enable me to create new policies to benefit Union College and its OPEN STUDENT FORUM MEETING 2. 3. 4. . 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. 10. TUESDAY~ MAY 2 @ COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM OR CHETis. 8:30 P.M. COME AND VOICE YOUR OPINION Advertisements ANSWERS TO THE 10 MOST FREQU~NTLY ASKED QUESTIONS ABOUT GRADUATION! There is no limit to the number of guests you may invite and bring to Commencement (tickets not required). Once your graduation fee is paid, pick-up caps and gowns at the bookstore May 15 - June 10, 1995 (the booksore closes at 4:30p.m on the lOth). Commencement Exercises begin at 10:00 o'clock Sunday morning, June 11, 1995, in Library Plaza, rain or shine. Graduates report to Alexander Field to form the procession at 8:30 the morning of Commencement. Don't miss the Class of 1995 picnic, followed by a band concert and laser show on Friday evening, June 9th. No charge. Look for details in your mail soon. .:t All seniors and your families are invited to be guests of the College at a dinner honoring you, the Class of 1995, followed by an outdoor (weather permitting) dance on Saturday evening, June lOth. No charge. Look for invitations in your mail soon. Other Commencement Weekend activities include a Comrtlencement Concert of \Music for a Celebration\ the President's Reception, and the Baccalaureate Commemoration on Saturday afternoon, June lOth. Look for details in your mail soon. For further information contact Mrs. Judy Ludwig in the Dean of Faculty's Office, x60 10. Once your graduation fee is paid, pick-up caps and gowns at the bookstore May I 5 - June . 10, 1995 (the booksore closes at 4:30p.m. on the lOth). There is no limit to the number of guests you may invite and bring to Corrtmencement (tickets not required). GIVE TO THE SENIOR GIFT! LET'S MAKE· HULL PAY ''Escape from Fosdick'' an evening of humor and insight for men and women on the issues of identity, sex, food and love - a special focus on eating disorders. By Alicia Quintano - actress, director, & storyteller. Nationally known & highly .acclaimed, Alicia Quinta no performs an original story that will leave you thinking and laughing. She has performed for colleges and theaters, the United National Women's Guild, radio programs, storytelling festivals and .more. Thursday, May 4th at 7:30 pm in the College Center ·Auditorium. Free of Charge .. Spons'ored by the Student Health Committee.

