I I · · . . Smimniing Loses to Williams.;. page 19 . · ·. . . ' . ' ' . . : . ' ·~~ . on.cnrut.ettsts The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Celebrating Our Bicentennial Volume CXXIV, Number IX Revising Rush by Christoph 0. Ringwald Concordiensis Staff Starting this coming Sunday evening, mote than one hundred anxious Union CoUe_ge women will be taking part in rush, in an attempt to fil'ld out wl1ether or i1ot they want to go greek. As Tri DeltaPresident Monique Lions explains it, · one of the purposes of rush is te \see whether there is a mutual interest betwee11 the rushees and the sororities.\ This year, the n1sh process has been changed in several ways. For instance, unlike in the past, rushees were allowed to visit the houses during the faJ.I tenn. This gave them a good chance to get to know the sisters of each house. Another change is that rush has become more infonnal. Now, rushees are a11owed to wear jeans, except for one evening. In the past, one oft he chief complaints about rush, especially among greek women, is that it is too superficial. A lot of greek women believe that rush, which lasts four days, is not lo11g enough in order to get to know someone. \It is hard judging someone only after four nights,\ Tri Delta President Monique Lions stated. However, some greek women contend that rush has become less superficial. \It is not as superficial as it used to be, and all sororities are workfttg:yery- hard so that it is not as superficial_\ claj_~neclGamma::-· Phi Beta President Anne Rozwadowski. · · However, at least one president f~els tl~at the r1ts11~i ~ process is seriously flawed. Tri Delta President Monique Lions stated that \it is hard changing something that is innately imperfect.\ She points out there are national rules that every sorority has to comply with. \These are not Union rules. These are national rules that we all have to follow.\ . . Another change that has takel1 place concems the Schenectady, New York January 12, 1995 Palmer On the State of Higher Education by Heather Manley Associate News Editor Parker J. Palmer, a traveling . lecturer who speaks nationwide abo~1t issues _in higher educa- · tion, religion and social change, gave the first bicentennial lec- ture of winter term last Tlmrs- day. Palmer spoke to Union College administration, faculty, staff and students about \objec- tivism\ in higher education. The talk, entitled \The Vio- lence of Our Knowledge: Higher Education and Renewal of Community,\ began with a story about a 1 7 7 4 treaty be- tween the \Indians\ and the white settlers. The white Euro- pean men invited young Native American men to attend Will- iam and Mary College. The Native Americans declined the invitation .• saying that when · ~1err young men attended col- lege they returned not knowing any skHis which were impor- tant, such as hunting or living in the wildemess. They did not rush counselors, or so-called Rho Chis. For the first couti11ued on page 4 Parker Palmer delivers a Bicentenial speeclr in tile College Ceuter AIJ!dit,orilrlm \objectivism\ in lligller education (p!wto by Josh Hgines/Tite Cmwordiensis) . learn what was important for their culture, but what was im- portant for the culture of the cOiltinued mz page 4 Schaffer Library: $4M Closer by Atlrian MacLean Concordiensis Staff The Schaffer Foundation of Schenectady and the National Endowment for the Humanities have given roughly $1.5 million toward the expansion of Schaffer Library. The NEH grant of $575,000 was obtained under the condition that Union raises four times that amount in private funds. Union's grant was one of 30 different grants awarded to help generate research support and programs. Dotibling their donation from 1959-60, the Schaffer Foundation donated a million dollar grant to the library expansion. \The Schaffer Foundation has long supported the library at Union College, as the name of the building suggests,\ remarked President Hull. These contributions make up roughly half of the $2,959,189 that has been raised for this ex- pansion. The college needs to i·aise $17 million for the project to be completed. Two million of the total goes toward a mainte- nat!ce endowment to keep the li- brary functioning. \We're so close to 3 million I could taste it,\ Director ofDeyel- opment Bruce Downsbrough said. The functioning library is in need of these renovations, but ground breaking wilJ be heidoff until the 11ecessary funds have been raised. The reason for this precaution is that Union is still paying off debts from the reno- vation of the Alumni Gym and the College Center, explained Charles Casey of the Union Pub- lic Relations department. An issue that Union is forced Inside: News ············~~~••~!!••······· 2-5 Living ......•...• , ....•....... 13 Wo•·ld News ................ 6 A & E .................. 14-15 Features ................... 7-8 Personals .................. 16 Op/Ed, ....•. 0 .. , •••••••••••••• 10 Sports .................. 18-20 to deal with in the fundraising campaign is the difficulty of ob- taining a large donatiot1 for a pre- named building. At this point, according to Downsbrough, a name cannot be guaranteed to a donor. \I cannot point to an incident where it has stopped a donation, but it certainly changes the way we pitch the expansion,\ Downsbrough said. The goal of the expansion is to make the library the intellectual hubforthe campus. Plans call for a bibliographic instruction room, a climate controlled special collec- tions library, a periodic'als room and govemment documents cen- ter. When construction begins, the original library, that is accessed through the main entrance will re- main relatively the same. It is the I 974 expansion that will be tom down. The building had difficulty holding the weight of the books due to the building's over settling. As a precautiot1 50,000 volumes were moved off campus into stor- age. The library now holds roughly475,000 volumes on cam- COilfillued 011 page 4 Steve Lieblwjf, Jti!remy Liehlwfj, Dan Rosellfeld, a11d Fra11k Martucci display til-e fruits o/tllei1' tabor at Bttd and Mary's Marina ill tile Florida Keys. (plwto by Twill Pltoto)

January 12, l995,.page 2 NEWS Campus Safety Department Weekly Incident Summary SUNDAY. JANUARY 1, 1995 THROUGH MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 1995 DATE!fiME LOCATION SUNDAY, JANUARY 1, 1995: I :29 AM Si.gnta Chi MO.NDAY •. JANUARY 2. 1995: . . 1 : 1 0 PM West College 5:30PM Potter Lot 10:17 PM Richmond 11:45 PM S&E N-112 TUESDAY. JANUARY3,l995: INCIDENT SECURITY HAZARD: Entrance propped open numerous occasions throughout the day. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. SAFETY HAZARD: Ceramic tiles falling from ceiling. Campus Operations provided emergency repair, PROPERTY DAMAGE: Student's vehicle wiiidshield cracked cause unknown-possibly stress or weather related. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Possible odor of marijuana reported. Unconfirmed. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Window broken. Cause undeter . mined-possibly due to high winds. 3;31 AM . West College FIRE ALARM/LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: 3:50AM 2:00PM West College Psi Upsi'lon False Fire alann on 2nd floor hallway. Intentional1y activated. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. VANDALISM: Door to student's room damaged. THEFT; Oriental rug missing from entry foyer. Taken sometime during break period. 4:33PM Nott Seward Lot PARKING VIOLATION: Abandoned vehicle. Owner located vehicle removed. WEDNESDAY. JANUARY 4, 1995: 11:00 AM Delta Phi SAFETY HAZARD: Exits obstructed. Obstrnctions cleared. THURSDAY, JANUARY 5, 1995: 12:03 AM Psi Upsilon FIRE ALARM: Caused by accidental activation of pull box. 3:20AM South College UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY: Attempt to force star age room door open. Entry not gained. 6:07AM Davidson North qFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Fire extinquisher pulled from wall and discharged. Life Safety Notice filed. 9:44 AM Achilles Lot THEFTN ANDALISM: Window of student's vehicle broken. Vehicle entered and pocketbook stolen. Some items recovered by Campus Safety in area of Fieldhouse. 12:10 PM 10:55 PM West College THEFT: Cash stolen from student's book bag which was left unattended in lm1lway. Occurred approximately 1:30AM. Fox Ho1ise SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Odor of marijuana. Confinned. Conduct Charges filed. FRIDAY, JANUARY 6, 1995: 2:53 AM Potter/Raymond RECKLESS ENDANGERMENT: Student's vehicle driving across lawn. Driver identified and ticket issued. 8:35 PMLenox Road VANDALISM: Escort vehi<;:le struck by egg. No damage or 11:29 PM West College injury. ASSAULTN ANDALISM: Physical altercation between students. Windows broken. Conduct charges filed. SATURDAY. JANUARY 7, 1995: 4:30AM . Davidson LoungeTHEFT/FORGERY: Personal check stolen from student's 12:10 PM 2:50PM Psi Upsilon Sigma Phi SUNDAY. JANUARY 8, 1995: 5:35 AM Rlnk Area 7:30PM Alexander Lane MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 1995: room. Forged to pay for food delivery. VANDALISM: Window broken. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Door to student's room damaged over break. Report previously filed 12/12/94. Residents en tered room to check on activated fire detector in the room. PROPERTY .DAMAGE: Barrier chain eyebolt broken . . Cause undetennined-suspected vandalism. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Barrier chain eyebolt broken. Cause undetennined-suspected vandalism. 12:30 PM Bailey Field area LOST/FOUND: Student's property removed from unlocked vehicle trunk. Recovered in area of Bailey Field. 7:08PM Fratemity VIOLATION OFSOCIAL POLICY: Beer keg on tap. Any ca~pus events that members of the college community would like posted in The Concordiensis should be sent to Box 2577 and sent to David Levine or Heather Reynolds.

NEWS January 12, 1995, page 3 Bringing Politics Back into the Classroom hy .Jod~· !\-1ousseau · Concordie1zsis Staff With the city of Schenectady and President Hull fi!!hting a zon- ing war. it would be odd to see one of the dty's primary officials on campus being welcomed as an- other student. Frank Duci. theRe- publican mayor of Schenectady who is up for re-election this year. is currently enrolled in a poHtical science course. Electoral Politics. here at Union. As a 73 year old man and a poli- tician of 44 years. Duci has never been able to say that he has at- tended college. A neighbor of the college since six years of age, he used to walk through the campus on his way to school as a child. His academic career ended after high school. Although he repeat- edly said that he was going to take a college course. he never did. However. when the local media challenged him. it became some- thing that he had to do. When Proctor's Theatre was holding a silent auction and a Union College course was up for bidding, Duci jumped at the opportunity. The reason is twofold. TI1e first is sim- ply because he wanted to learn more about politics and govem- ment. The second was to be able to say that he had attended Union. ously expected. Dm:i hopes that the class ''ill be bcnclic1al for him and his colleagues. He likes the association \Vith the students. and thus far. it has been thl.! gre;1tcst ac.:adclllic.: c.:li,ilkngc 11..: has confronted. Like ever) stu- dent. he has <111\ictics about'' hat kind of grade he will receive. lie is enthusiastic. e\ en thLlllgh . .1~ h e a rt i c ul a I c I) s I a lc.: :-. • Ia: 1 ~ slightly over 21. Professor Byron Nichols. chair of the political science de- partment. believes that ha\ in):! Mayor Duci as' a student is a positive experience. First the more contact the students haw with real politics and politicians. the better. Second. cross-gen- erational communications adds more insight. Professor Nichols also noted that it will be very interesting to see hnw Mayor Duci puts to usc \\hat he has learned. Mayor Frank Dud prepares for Professor Theresa Marclzant.SIIapiro's Electoral Politics class (photo by Joshua W. Haines/ Tile Concordiensis) Electoral Politics has been more than a handful so far for the mayor. He has experienced a lot from the students and in the past week has leamed more than he had previ- Duci is up for re-election this year. and he has not officially declared to thc public that he \viii run again. When asked if he would. he said, .. God \\illing yes.\\ Admitting to have made some mistakes. coined as ··hu- man eJTors.\ Duci stated that he has apologized for them and that the mistakes made in the past did not detrimentally affect the city. He has taken more credit for the city ·s ·improvement than for its destruction. Duci was the mayor of Schenectady for 1\\ elve years beginning in 1972 and was elected again in 1991. Whitbeck Will Speak on Scientific Ethics by Nalini Gupta Concordiensis Staff In at1 attempt to give Union stu- dents a better understanding of the growing ethical aspects of re- search science, the Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar Program has invited Senior Lecturer and Research Scholar, Caroline Whitbeck, to speak on the con- troversial scientific questions pressing modern society. The lecture will be open to the public and will held in the College Cen- ter at 8 PM, on Timrsday, Janu- ary 12. Students will be able to discuss issues that pertain to the truth and validity of science and leam of the constraints that de- tennine the dependability of pre- sented research. Dr. Whitbeck is currently alec- turer at the School of Engineer- ing at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. She is the author of Understanding Ethical Problems in Engineering and in Scielll{[ic Concordiensis Meeting- Tonight 7.:00 p.m. CC303 New Members Welcome Research and is a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. She is also a member of the advisory board of Pn?fessiona/ Ethics. Dr. Whitbeck will be lecturing in for- mal discussion seminars during the course of a two day program. She will also be available for in- fot'lnal meetings with students and faculty on campus. The first of three seminars in the program involves a discussion on \Ethics as Design,\ i11 which the moral problems relating to sci- ence and technology will be ex- amined. TI1e focus will be to pin- point the need of considering moral issues and to view them as an integral part of justified scien- tific infonnation. Other events will feature joint seminar in the fields of Biology, Chemistry, Geology and Physics in the Old Chapel at 12:30PM. This discussion will isolate the concems of the truth and in spe- cific ideals of science and how they relate to the increasing need for efficient data. On Friday, January 13, Dr. Whitbeck will address the issues oftrust atld sci- entific responsibility in tenns of public access. The questions ad- dressed will include public atti- tudes towards professionals in top research positions and how well they trust both the scientific and liberal arts communities. Ad1·ertisement I.E.F. DEADLINE The deadline for proposals for the Internal Education Foundation in two categories -- student-initiated research projects and \educationally innovative projects\ is Ft!bruary 16. 1995. Proposals for student-initiated research projects must have the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be submitted to the Dean·s Office (S 100, Science & Engineering Building) on forms available there. Similarly, members of the College community who have \educationally innovative\ proposals should submit them to the same office on forms available there. Forms for Faculty Research Projects are also available in the Dean's Office (SIOO). Guidelines with respect to the I.E.F. are available in the Dean's Office. Inquiries about I.E.F., the guidelines, or the proposal deadline should be directed to Margaret Dalton. Administrative Assistant to the Dean of Arts & Sciences. When preparing budgets. please remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $50-85 per day. Transportation costs should also reflect the best rates available. Students who are planning to do interviews must indicate that arrangements have already been made. If your research includes work with human subjects. then the proposal must have preliminary approval from the Human Subjects Research Committee before it can be funded by the Subcouncil on Undergraduate Research. ************************************************ FACULTY RESEARCH DEADLINE The Faculty Development Committee is now soliciting proposals for faculty research and scholarship activities. Applications and guidelines are available in Dean Sorum's Office ( S- 1 00, S&E). The deadline for submission of proposals is February 16, 1995. Questions concerning the Faculty Research Fund should be directed to Dean Sorum. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $50-85 per day. Transportation shouid also reflect the best rates available. If your research includes work with human subjects, then the proposals must have preliminary approval from the Human Subjects Research Committee before it can be funded by the Faculty Development Committee.

January 12, 1995, page 4 NEWS Rush Rules are Changing C~lltinuedfrom page I time ever, Rho Chi candidates are now evaluated on \their personalities and answers to selected questions.\ In the past, Rho Chis were selected from within their own houses. In addition, Sigma Delta Tau PresideHt Christi·ne Gagliano reminds that ~=whether or not a woman gets a bid is not based 011 her looks, wealth, or intelligence, but rather on her ~ersonality. Moreover, she notes that everyone has a fair chance. \Everyone is viewed as equal. Everyone gets paid the same attention.\ And another Students signing upfor tllis week's Sorority Ruslr (plroto by Rick Lederer/The Concordiensis) greek woman commented: \I think that most houses have an open mind al;lout each woman.\ Nevertheless, a lot of greek women believe wholeheartedly that msh is ?positive e:xperien.ce _ and a great opportunitY to make friends. '1 think you can make your best friends through msh, even if you don't Join a particular· house,\ stated a Delta Gamma sister. Palmer Speaks Contim,ledfrQmpage) whit~ man. Palmer ttsedthis story to propose the question~ \Who will dominate our ways of know- ing, teaching and learning?\ \The stntggle is not a new one,\ said Palmer, \but one that must re- claim its importance.\ Palmer explained that the \In- dians\ created an intimate rela- tionship with the 1 Im ow ledge they 'otltain. Tbis differs from the way modern educators use objectiv- ism - .. U . ' Ad :·· . s·· ··__ ·1 1· . • DIOD S WISSIODS . teadt y mproving hi the learning process. Palmer's themy of objectivity istl~at people make objeets out.ofwhat they are learning by ke~ping it at ann's length. \One cannot know any- thing well until one is distanced from thahvhich isheinglearned,\ Palmer said. This is a risk to higher. education because too of- ten educated'. pe'Ople know a lot about the outside world and very by Michelle Ellis Co!lcordiellsis Staff T11e Union College Admis- si.ot'lS Office is predicting an enormously successful admis- sions y~ar for the graduating class of 1999. By February first, Admissions wil'l know if they have met their targeted goal of 3,500 applicants, of which they hope to obtain a class of between 510 and 520 students. Dean of Admissions, Daniel Lundquist, said he is not worried by the 1 . 7% dip in the number of Funding for Library , colltimtedfrom page 1 p1.1s. The new library will cen- . tr-:aliz:e all of this infonnation. With all the technological ad- v~ncements of the information highVv'ay CD ROM, intemet and other programs, the plans intend ID upgrade rooms with current in- formation and the latest equip- JnenL Computers and document delive1y service are some of the essential parts that make up the periodicals room. In the existing library, many of th:e advanced systems have al- ready been installed. They have a link internet and a gopher ser- vice; Union has also applied for tl1e Electronic Doorway in New y <>l'k. Ne-v~ training will be required fe>r ai 1 the library staff, but they at-e ex: cited about the changes and advancement in their field. All the systems are advanced and will need tl'ai11ing and assistance. \W eneed to convey our knowl- edge on how to use these re- se>urces to the people use them,\ said, Director of the Schaffer Li- brary,. Barbara Jones. . '-. ,, ' .,- applicants.-ll:}si y.ear. \TI1e. qual- ity of students that were accepted went up a little bit last year,\ said Lundquist. \Whether the number of applicants go up or down is all due to luck.\ Lundquist de- fended the decrease in the num- ber of applicants from last year by stating that the school sent mailings to a smaller number of students through the student search network because of the increase in academic quality of the students at Union. However, it appears that the 1995-1996 fig- ures will be right on the mark with previous years. Lundquist stressed that admis- sions has recently streng~hened its efforts in .tenns of personal outreach programs, recruiting staff, regional director:s, and ~tu­ dent volunteers. Lundquist. \Things have little ·about him or herself. \Ev- , ---~';JI' ~> changed so .draniatically it1 the · ··· ery .way ofkrto-wing 6ecomes a last couple of years.\ way of living,;' i\~:·~aJctl. ·Palmer Within the past six years ad- missions at Union and-at. otlwr small lib€ral arts colleges have been restructured. Due to chang- ing demographics, in which .. more students are in need of fi- . nancial aid, Union and other schools have responded to the change in the applicant pool. \In two words, we have had to be- come 'more competitive',\ said As the past three years admis- suggests that stud~l:its.:s}10u'ld not sions statistics . indicate,. ·just learn subjeets..·~~}:~llow the Lundquist claims that Union subjects of the outside workLto Admissions adapted to these ' challenge th~ inner self..· :'_·.· .- ~· changes successfully. \Last year;:_,. He explain~dthat three. features other than Comell atid Columbia, have been ripped from what he the two Ivy League schools in the calls their \paradoxical oppo- statr -of New York, Union Col- sites'':. the objective from the sub- lege and Colgate University, jective, the analytical from tl1e were the most selective colleges integrated and the experimental in the state,\ said Lundquist. \We from the appreciated. The prob- <!nly accepted 51% of our appli- !em with being analytical is that cant pool.\ a person leams how to take a lot Student Forum Election Vice-President for Academics *Petitions available; Friday, January 13 *Petitions and statements must be returned by Friday, January 20 to the Office of Student Activities (College Center 408) *Statements will appear in the January 26 issue of The Concordiensis. *Elections will be held Friday, January 27. *Any current Union College student may run. According to the constitution of the SGA, the following are the responsibilities of the Vice President for Academics: \The Vice President for Academics of the SGA shall be elected by all four classes. The term of office for the Vice President for Academics shall be one year. The principal responsibility of the Vice President for Academics shall be to serve concurrently as an active member on the Academi«! Affairs Council (AAC); report to the Student Forum on the activities of the AAC, and serve as an active liaison between the Forum and the AAC.\ of things apart, but never leam how to put the world back to- gether, or how to integrate it once again. Experimentation presents a problem as well. It is driven by the idea that once you dissect something you may rearrange it to make it more pleasing, instead of appreciating its original fonn. Palmer wamed of the danger in usiftg the whole earth as an ex- perimental lab. Palmer concluded with the good news that the principle be- hind \objectivism\ is being re- envisioned. Palmer said that to- day, African-American historians and ecologists are using what he called the voice of the older Na- tive Americans; they speak in a way that relates it to the self per- sohally. While at Union, Palmer also conducted several workshops for faculty and administrators. Palmer, the author of ten po- ems, more than five essays and five books, has a B.A. ii1 philoso- phy from Carleton College, where he was a Phi Beta Kappa and re- ceived a Danforth Graduate Fel- lowship. He also studied a year at Union TI1eological Seminary before earning a master's and a Ph.D. in sociology at the Univer- sity of California at B.erkeley. Palmer currently works as a con- sultant and a writer and has worked in various positions in education, religion and social change.

' @re probably saying to yourself, any four-year~old knows how to use the bath- room. But you may not know . . l . . ····~ • • • • • • that you use more water in the • • bathroom than anyplace else in • • your home. In fact, between the • you re shaving. And • toilet, the shower and the • just because your • sink you can use up to 55 gallons a day. You could end up Multiply that by the using 30 to 60% less water by number of homes using a ww1low shovverhead. in the world, and. thats a lot of natural resources ·going down the drain. Now, we're not saying you should stop taking showers or brushing your teeth. We're just suggesting some simple bathroom training. For instance, when you're brushing yottt teeth, turn off the water. Do the same -when • • shower soWlds ... • • like an opera • • hall, don't • • • fed the need • • to stng one . • • • make for shorter showers . • • • And for the biggest culprit of • : them all, the toilet, try putting forget to tum out the lights when you leave. You'll be helping to conserve electricity. IT'S A CONNECTED WORLD. DO YOUR SHARER l:tiJI A Public Service of ~~ This Publication !:>ave up to J5<yo more water l')' installing a weighted jug in your toi!tt tank . Andohyeah, if vou don't J think vou'll remember these things, take this newspaper with you the next time you go . Turningqff your water whi!t shaving or brushing~your teeth ran save 2gallonsoj water each time.

January 12, 1995, Page 6 NEWS BRIEFS ' ' . . . Internatioaal: Canada: Biologists captured . two more Canadian gray . wolves, bringing to nine the · number caught so far for relo- '· cation to central Idaho and · Yellowstone National Park in Wyoming. They are being fed roadkill elk while awaiting transfer .. In all, 30 of the preda- tors are to be reintroduced to the U.S. wilderness they roamed until ranchers wiped them out in the 1930's. National: Califomi·a: Jurors and alternates ·in the murder trial ofO.J. Simpson began sequestration Wednesday; family visits wiH be supervised. Washington: Transportation Secretary Federico Pena said that he would not settle for anything Jess than zero accidents. Washington: Immigration and Naturalization Service, led by Doris Meissner, will spend up to $236 million more on strengthening border control in battle against i.Jiegal immi- gration. Washington: House Speaker Newt Gingrich fired House historian after flap over her 1988 criticism of a Holocaust history program. South Carolina: South CarolinaGoven1or Carroll Campbell vetoed a state \motor voter\ law required by federal law and the U.S. Justice Dept. plans to file suit to force compliance. Campbell, a Republican, said Congress had no right to re- quire states to register voters at state offices that provide such services as motor vehicle registration and welfare. He said it's an invitation to fraud. \ North Carolina: One of the two men charged with murder in the death of James Jordan, father of NBA star Michael Jordan, told authorities that he didn't do it, but his fiiend and codefendant did. The statement, Larry Demery, 19, gave police after his arrest was read at a suppression hearing in Lumberton, N.C. In the statement, Demery said that he helped dispose of the body but Daniel Green, 20, pulled the trigger. Trial for both men is likely to begin in March. WORLD NEWS Action is Urgently Ordered by Mar~ Foster Concordiensis Staff At the stroke of midnight oH New Year's Eve, everyone was celebrating the new year, 1995, which instantly appeared. However, this is not the defin- ing moment in the progressing of a year of events. TI1e bridge between the past and new year was the November 8, 1994, election. Resulting from this election landslide., the 1 04th Congress swept into Washing- ton D.C. on January 4, 1995. The major change was the Re- publican take over of both houses of Congress from the Democrats, having gained the majority in the last election. They promised many great things, a return to the Ameri- can way with less governtl'lent, all enibodied in their Contract with America. After all, America is a nation founded on divided govern- ment, a fear of big goveming bodies, taxation, and a nation committed to individualism. l11e Grand Old Party did a lot of research and came up with ten legislative initiatives that their polling suggested people wanted. Maybe the people were fed up with the seeming inaction on the part of the Democrats, even though it was largely the Republicans that blocked the President's initia- tives. Whatever the reason was, with people voting the way they did, they elected a new era for the United States. Among the GOP ten points, the one that tops the listis a bal- anced budget amendment. This is critical for the United States with our over four trill,ion dol-. tar·National Debt. Another goal oftlre Republicans is to ease the tax btJrden, which with Presi- dent Clinton trying to regain lost political territory, is going to be implemented. Let me remind you of the consequences of a policy of cutting taxes without the matched spending cuts to pay for your programs. When Ronald Reagan took office the National Debt was under a tril- lion dollars, by the time George Bush was done with his Presi- dency the mounting deficits in- creased the National Debt to what it is today. Ronald Reagan wanted to bal- ance the federal budget and cut taxes, however, the Congress and the 1984 election would have a great impact on his presi- dency. He won in a landslide victory, but his labeling ofthe Democrats as the \Tax and spend Democrats\ made it po- litical suicide to raise taxes to pay for the programs at the saine · or increased leveL The people continued to vote their members of Congress back, and the offi- cials were all to happy to please the voters with pork and social programs, such as Entitlements. No one would raise taxes, and since the money was not there, the government was forced to borrow and borrow, and our deficits soared. Tod~ythe GOP Congress and President Clinton will try and balance the federal budget by 2002. l11ere have been deficit reduction plans in the fonn of the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act which have been in effect and have failed because politi- cal leaders allowed it to. The Congress is serious on this ques- tion but it must now match the loss in tax revenue with equal spending cuts or we will have an increased deficit, debt, and no chance of refc;mn. Speaker of the House, Newt Gingrich, has at first said Social Security is offlimits, and then amended his stand to say that it should be looked into but not now. l11e time he recommended it should be looked at is around the time when his telin of Speaker will be over. Social Security is going to be the death of the nation. The program cannot be allowed to continue on in the present fonn. To deny money to people who have worked for years and have an understanding with the Gov- ernment is wrong. One way is to scale the program down, and allow people age thirty five to get a small tax credit now for income taxes, ins·tead of receiv- ing the social security when they retire. As each year passes · towards their retirement the amount of the tax credit in- creases so when they retire they have money saved. As the Gov- ernment scales the prograin down or eliminates it, the people will not be robbed ofthe money that they expected when they were to retire. We borrow money from our- selves and foreigners, with the Japanese economy in a slump, and the Gennan economy still accommodating East Germany, they may not be able to continue to buy part of our debt. What if the United States has to declare bankntptcy? Our nation and its Paula Jones and Whitewater: Clinton's Year sovereignty will be restricted, look at the situation in Russia where they are dependent on world loans. With nothing backing up our money but our faith in the government, what happens when our leaders can not pay our debts? As an in- creased percentage of our money going to mandatory so- cial programs such as Social Se- curity, the money left over for defense and education will not be enough to cut money to pay for those mandatory programs. by Matt Sandler Concordiensis Staff President Clinton had a diffi- cult year, both personally and politically. In January, he suf- fered the loss of his mother, Virginia Kelly. Soon after, Whitewater surged and inun- dated his presidency as a pha- lanx of White House aides were summoned to a federal court~ house to respond to allegations of malfeasance on behalf of Treasury and White House of- ficials. l11en Paula Jones filed a lawsuit against the president claiming that he sexually ha- rassed her when he was gover- nor of Arkansas. By June, the United States was tangled in a full..:blown na- tional security imbroglio with North Korea. At the same time, Haiti was in a state.of upheaval as the military junta there, led by Lt. Gen. Raoul Cedras, pro- voked an exodus from the coun- try of thousands of Haitians laden by the opJ')ressive regime and economic hardship. Exacerbating President Clinton's foreign policy quag- mire, Fidel. C?.eytfo unleasJ1ed a Cuban population grown weary of the Revolution and its con- comitant economic woes. Meanwhile, Saddam Hussein reappeared as the on-again, off- again gadfly of U.S. foreign policy in the Middle East. By September, healthcare re- form was declared legally dead and unlikely to reincarnate dur- ing the next session of Con- gress. Within the Administration, Cabinet members Espy, Cisneros, and Elders all proved embarrassments for the presi- dent: Espy for accepting money from private interests for travel and other purposes; HUD Sec- retary Cisneros exposed for in- fidelity; Elders, who came un- der fire for highly controversial statements she made throughout her tenure as Surgeon General. And even the ,president's own house came under fire-from an incident involving a stolen Cessna piloted by Frank Corder, an·u~employed truck driver, to the shooting spree carried out · by a mat1 disgruntled by the ban on assault weapons. Finally, on November 8, Re- ~gub!;i¢~tlil'l:.~S·~ept ~}e country '':· ' winning majorities in the Sen- ate and House of Representa- tives for the first time in more than four decades-when Eisenhower was president. Clinton saw toppled the man that many call the martyr ofun- adulterated liberalism, New York Govemor Mario Cuomo. Also among the ousted were House Speaker Tom Foley, the first Speaker defeated for re- election since William Pennington in 1860; Dan Rostenkowski, the powerful Chicago Democrat forced from his position as Chainnan of the House Ways and Means Com- mittee in the fallout from the House Post Office scandal and other ethics violations, who lost to a virtual Republican un- known; Ann Richards, the well- liked Texas goveti1or who was unsuccessful in her bid for a second term, losing to chal- lenger George W. Bush. It seemed President Clinton was facing circumstances hell- bent on nlii1ing his presiden~y· .. · All or most of them were be- yond his control. Some came as a result of Clinton's own ac- tions; however, his indecisive- ness and chronic waffling largely to blame. When Leon Panetta was named Chief-of- Staff in the personnel shake-up last fall, it was expected that he would bring order back to a White House in disatTay. If, instead, President Clinton ex- erted the control over the reins of the presidency, many believe that a repeat of the events of 1994 could be avoided. In the world of politics, where percep- tion plays as great a role as re- ality, Clinton could remedy many of his problems simply by appearing more decisive, as a man with the wherewithal to be president. At one point in April last year, the president identified what has plagued him since he took office: \We simply must not be on record in favor of any policy we are not prepared to follow through on.\ A prudent resolution for 1995. To overlook cuts in Entitle- ments now is to side step the whole problem, which will ul- timately cost us our freedom, security, and prosperity. Re- member that it is not only us who suffers. If our government is forced to print money to pay off our debts, we will have hyper-inflation which will make our t'noney worthless. As the largest consumer on the planet, other nations will feel the ef- fects rippling through their countries as the largest market is closed off. The world has become interdependent, and so Wrfte fo:r World N.-ews' much so that 0ne missing piece . in the e,ntire global framework · ·. ~wHI :resu1f i11. the destruction of the whole global economy.

FEATURES January 12, 1995, page 7 New Found Independence or a Year of Hell? A Student Perspective on the Joys of Off-Campus Living by Erin M. OjNeil Features Editor The following is a waming to all of you who plan to rent an off- campus apartment in coming years. TI1is is not fiction, the story .is true. It happened, and contin- ues to happen, to me, an unsus- pecting Union student,justlike all of you, Being a person who had never rented an apartment in the past I blindly dove into what has become a recun-ing nightmare. Allow me to explain ... three naive I i>ttle girls merely shnagged it off and decided to just call him again. Spring tenn, Jtinior year, apm1- ment-hunting time. My room- mates and I were a little slow on the uptake, so needless to say. most ofthe (dare I say) '\choice\ apartments had already been sitatched up. Fortunately for us, one of Jhy roommates had a friend who infom1ed us that the apm1- ment above his would be avail- able for the upcoming year. We were elated to find that the apart- ment located on Gillespie Street, by far one of Schenectady's most exclusive areas, so we called the landlord to make an appointment for a '\showing.\ At last the big day an·ives. All parties are present. and we enter the apartment. It did strike me as somewhat odd that Mr. Brindell failed to ring the doorbell. or even knock before entering someone else's home, but another shmg allowed such a problem to pass. The door opens, and into my nos- trils wafts the most foul odor I have ever smelled. sort of a com- bination of body-odor, rotting food, ex·crement and garbage all wrapped up into one. Now the waming lights are flashing, as a neat freak, I refuse to live in a place with such an odor. But in we go. The apartment itself pretty much suited the smell. Trash ev- erywhere, dirty dishes, just dirt and filth and yuck. There was no way I was living in this place, so imagine my surprise when my roommates seemed unfazed, even pleased. Many Union students live in apartments liketluse on Gillespie Street and in otller surrounding lleigltboriiOods. (Tile Concordiellsis.file photo) Here is where the.story begins to get ugly. After leaving several unanswered messages on his ma- chine. the landlord- we'll call him John Brindell, finally calls. us to mTangf1 a lll(f~ting time. Thrilled to finally get the chance to see the interior of our white palace. my two roommates and I waited on the front st~psfor.Mr. Brindell to amve. Wf; wait and wait. He doesn't show. An educated con- . . sumer wciuld probably view this as ample reason to stm1 looking for anotluc;r apartment, but the \We'll take it!,\ they said, while I just nodded dunibly. \Of course the place will be cleaned before you move in,\ promised Mr. Brindell. \SwelL\ I thought. As for a lease, or anything offi- cial, subletters etc., Mr. Brindell wanted no part of that. \We 'II ,take care of it late.J:t he said. . \Great! replied the naive ~ol­ lege students. At last the big day arrived. \Move Into My First Apartment Day... I could hardly wait to see my freshly scrubbed, completely refurbished apatiment- all ready to move in. My heart sank when I opened the front door, only to be greeted by the same pungent aroma I had smelled 011ce before. Wl1ile I appreciate the fact that it must be difficult to clean an apart- ment which has been inhabited solely by males for the past twenty years, and was once a fra- temity annex, Mr. Brindell's ef- forts were, at best, pathetic. Inches of brrime coated everythi1'g you could touch: doorknobs, walls~ cabinets, bathroom- every- thing. Tile fonner tenants also left us a :;;anitary gift of used condoms beneath their soiled mattresses. Yummy. This story is getting extremely long, so I will make the rest of this Y{):ar as brief as possible. Af- Are you outgoing, upbeat and excited about Union? Would you like to learn more about your college? Do you enjoy meeting new people? Apply now to become a Union College Tour Guide aka the Gatekeeper Honorary Society Applications. are available in the Admissions Office. Application deadline is Tuesday, January 31st ter putting hundreds of dollars, and a good couple weeks of our own time and money into this money pit it finally meets the standards of civilized human liv- ing. Mr. Brindell promised to install great new kitchen cabinets and a bathroom vanity. Both sat in our dining room fgr two months and were finally install eo after calling in bomb threats to his home., Mr. Brindell· NEVER collects rent, leaving us in finai1cial ruin when we decide to send him a check for thousm1ds of dollars. If you're looking to live for free, this is your place. Mr. Brindell enters our home unannounced every Monday and Wednesday night, wanting to talk business, and consequently dis- turbing our viewing of Melrose and Bev Hills. Each time he en- ters, he bellows, \Brindell here!\ This story has no apparent end, and my rantings and ravings could go on for pages and pages. What it comes down to is that my iiTesponsible landlord has ruined my life, and has left ine hovering somewhere around the poverty level. I wish that the story had come out more humorously, but some things just aren't funny. Oh yeah, and the apartment is taken for next year, so don 'l ask. UMED Union's Emergency Medical Service Sponsors: American Red Cross CPR for the Professional Rescuer Saturday, January 21, 1995 Open to the Campus Com- munity Students, Faculty, and Staff Enrollment: $22.00 Pre-Register by 1/6 Questions and Registration: Meg. F~rman x5850

January 12, 1995, page 8 FEATURES Angle of the Hopeless Heart? by Rawson Thurber Concordie11sis Staff Well, well, well. We're back and it's cold. You'd think for $2 7,000 a year they could heat the oHtside as well, but alas 'tis a blind and foolish notion. My break was just that, a break. Al- though it was delightfully mun- dane, I did read an excellent book that was given to me by my high school English teacher. The in- scription occupying the inside flap like an enlightening bumper sticker read, \Go for it, Rawson.\ l11e book was Angle qf Repose by Wallace Stet,rner, and it was excellent. The novel is basically the story of a man confined to a wheel chair writing a biography of his grandparents and their ad- ventures growing up and living. But it was also much more than that. The book is and was health food for the soul. It was not only good, it was good for me (and only five calories per serving). At any rate it dealt with many things but love and relationships were the main revolving themes. Now I've always been of the opinion that there is someone out there for everyone, and it's only a matter of time before you meet that special someone and ride off into the sunset (or snow drift if you're in Scheneetady). I guess I'm what one would call a hope- less romantic but as a friend of mine once argued, a more fitting tenn would be a hopeful roman- tic. But this story was much less idealistic than I profess to be. Technically the \angle of re- pose\ is the greatest angle the emth can be cut before it cmmbles upon itself from the pull of grav- ity. Yet Wallace Stegner pre- sented a different definition of this highly technical tenn which as he put it, \is much too graceful for mete dirt.\ \ 'What do you mean Angle c?l Repose? she asked me .. .' and I said it was the angle at which a man or a woman finally lies down. I suppose it is; and yet it was not that I had hoped to find when I began to pry around in my Grandmother's life. I thought when I began, and still think, that there was another angle ... They were vertical people, they lived by pride, and it is only by the ocu- lar illusion of perspective that they can said to have met. But he had not been dead two months when she lay down to die too, and that may indicate that at that ab- solute vanishing point they did intersect. There must be some other pos- sibility than death or life long penance ... and some cowardly, geometer in my brain tells me it is the angle at which two lines prop each other up, the leaning- together from the vertical which produces the false arch. For lack of a keystone, the false arch may be as n:mch as one can expect .in this life. Only the very lucky dis- cover the keystone.\ Maybe for most people all there is is the false arch •. the leaning- together that gets us through life. Maybe true love happens to the very few (lucky?) and those in the movies. Perhaps not everyone in this life finds the keystone. Al- though the romantic in me screams this thought wholly un- true and spiteful, part of me be-' lieves the above passage to be closer to the truth than the Sleep- less in Seattle notion I want to envision. I don't know. Love and relationship are big issues- prob- ably the only issues of real im- portance in life- to big for me to try and unravel at nineteen. But it will do to think about it and not deny voice to either view. whether it be \keystone\ or \Hall- mark.\ Just thought you might want something to keep your brain and heart warm with thought during this chill Winter. If you want to borrow the book or drop a n9te on your own thoughts on matters .of the heart: Rawson Thurber Box # 2018, X5791 Are You Beginning to Feel Like June 11th Is Years Away? Courtesy of tire College Press Service Age. it seems. has its privi- leges, especially come graduation time. Mar Robinson, an English ma- jor at the University ofNebraska- Lincoln with a minor in history. was the first graduating senior to receive her diploma in the Arts and Sciences ceremony in late December. She was walked onto the graduation stage, received a standing ovation and dozen roses, and then was slowly escorted off back six generations to the Revo- lutionary War. However. she was still missing something - her college degree. In October 1992. she called Bob Mathiasen, the college adviser at the university's division of con- tinuing studies. Robinson had read an article in a local paper about an elderly man who has re- cently graduated from college, and was checking to see if her credits were still valid. \At first I thought this was something out of the ordinary. Most of the people I work with was something imp01tant enough to take this risk. I think this was something always in the back of her mind and she wanted to bring a closure to it.'' Mathiasen said Robinson had done all her course work for her major but needed 22 hours of electives to graduate. He inter- viewed Robinson at her retire- ment center and found out she has done a lot of varied work in her lifetime. Mathiasen and advising coordinator Ann Kopera began to investigate how Robinson's vol- unteer work and working on her the stage. It seems few students behind her didn't mind the wait; after all, Mary Robinson had waited 67 years to graduate, and at the age of 88, is the oldest University of ------------------- familyhistory. Itwason If you're beginning to feel like graduation day will never be here, just try to imagine waiting the next 67 years for your diploma. a master's thesis level. She has visited court- houses, cemeteries, in- terviewed families, and got certified through the Daughters of the Ameri- can Revolution as being Nebraska-Lincoln student to eam a degree from the university. \It was something I felt I had to do. I can't explain it. It's a dream I've had for a long time and now it has happened,\ said Robinson, who lives in a retire- ment complex in Lincoln. Robinson began studying at the university in 1923, and was 25 credit hour shy of graduation v.:hen she had to take a job in 1926 and leave the university. In 1929, she married and left Lincoln. re- turning in 1948. She worked, volunteered at the local Veterans Administration hospital and the Nehmska State Historic Society. ami researched her family history T - ' 11r'\'.-~.- ..... - - say they've been out of college I 5 or 20 years and want to go back, and I get a call from someone who ways that, \I've been out of col- lege 6 7 years,\' Mathiasen said. The first challenge was finding her records from 1923-26, but they still existed. She applied to the university and was accepted. So it was back to school for Mary Robinson. \I found it to be very inspira- tional,\ Mathiasen said. \Just the fact that I see a lot of people in their 30s and 40s and they're ap- prehensive about college. and thinking they're too old and that college is for younger kids. She showed me that she thought thi::. a direct descendant of the Revo- lutionary War.'' She took a few courses in the university's art department, and got sif:,•ned off by different depart- ments for her credits. \In no way was her degree a gift.\ Mathiasen said. \She eamed it.\ Robinson. who is a member of the Pi Beta Phi sorority at the uni- versity, said she \almost broke down\ when she received her di- ploma and a standing ovation. She now has plans to continue her education. at least fot now. \I waved. and then I wanted off the stage,\ she said. \It was a big day.\ Uncle Edna Your father's brother since 1992 (Inch! Hdna is a llnion ( 'ollexe senior who not on~v answers real questions.from real people hut also uses their letters to role his crack. Cm?filsed! Annoyed! Dnpty! ASK UNCTH HDNA-.hox 83. (issue 54/60) Edna's Mailbag Dear Uncle Edl1a. I've noticed several new trees around campus- specifically the four pines in front of the College Center. Why did they plant them at the beginning of winter? - audebon Dear Audebon, A reasonable question but I think that evergreens are relatively unaffected by cold weather. The trees were a gift of the campus dogs, who were tired ofhaving to stray far from the College Cen- ter to pee. CmTently. they are petitioning the College's decision to encase the trees in three feet of cement. An SAC resolution is expected soon. TOP TEN Times TWO I watched the Smurfs several times over vacation and realized that there must have many more, less Telegenic Smurfs in the village. I propose to you the twenty Smurfs that you nev~r saw on TV. 20. Infectious Smurf 19. Sweaty Smurf 18. Socialist Smurf I 7. Salty Smurf 16. Misogynist Smurf 15. Trash Talking Smurf 14. Uninhibited Smurf 13. Constipated Smurf 12. Lorena Smurf 11. Necrophilia Smurf Questions 10. Gassy Smurf 9. Strumpet Smurf 8. Beavis Smurf 7. Sleazy Sm urf 6. Bloodthirsty Smurf 5. Turrett's Syndrome Smurf 4. Exibitionistic Smurf 3. Eliphalet Sn1urf 2. Sadomasochistic Smurf 1. Smurfgingrich Did Adam and Eve have navels? Where is Admiral Stockdale these days? Did you know that both Gopher (from the !.ore Hom) and Sonny Bono are U.S. representatives? Does that mean Quincey will be appointed our next Surgeon General? Students of the Week Max Heinegg, Peter Gregory, John Woods and Dave Castellano. For reassuring me that personality does still exist in society. Also for occasionally wearing woman's undergar- ments. Liz Kessler. After 9 consecutive tenns abroad. Liz will gradu- ate with a BA in travel. A special welcome home to Juliet ('los, Melissa Weiner, Will Riggs, Jake Dolce, J.isandra Ramos and Tony Vil'a. Also Hello to J.auren T, who transferred from Lafayette. One For Your Friends What goes clip-clop-clip-clop BANG BANGftclip-clop-clip- clop? An Amish drive-hy shooting See you next week, same crack time, same crack channel Write for Features! If you are interested contact Erin at x6155 or come to our weekly meetings on Thursdays at 7:00pm in The Concordiensis office (CC303).

SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY January 12, 1995. page 9 Big Business and Public Health: A Relationship Necessary for Human Well-Being by Kenny Lee Co-Science and Health Editor DiSC\ISsions about how to get rid of certain diseases usually center around tryitrg to find a cure, but many people in the re.,. search world believe that vac- cines are a better idea than. a cure. The problem with vaccines is that the cost to produce them is high, and the idea of working with potentially hazardous mi- crootganisms in order to develop them is not appealing. However, one of these problems may be in the process of being solved. Jong Wong Lee, the head of the new Global Program for Vaccines and Immunization at WHO, has proposed to \open the door to industry,\ tn get them involved in the process of developing new and better vaccines. The plan in- volves convincing manufactur- ers to make innovative products by establishing priorities for re- search, organizing clinical trials and raising money. able vaccines administered orally. fear the government regula- Why are vaccines better than Since infectious diseases are still tions that come along with the cure? V~c.cines save lives and the lmmber one cause of death vaccines. It is not enough that · prevent disease more cost-effec- worldwide, especially in children, it can cost I 0 to 100 million tively than any form of medica- this program was designed to cut dollars to develop a product, tion. On the research front many down on the death toll. However, but the government puts a cap new ideas are surfacing for new, the program has accomplished on what it will pay for the vac- innovative vaccines for a variety little in its four years of existence. cine. This constraint is a rna- of illnesses at a pace that can not It has however created problems, jor sticking point for the busi- be matched through finding cures. because some companies in Eu- nesses, because yearly sales in At this time only --~----~-------~---- vaccines fluctu- twenty different types \Vaccines save lives and prevent disease ate, but the gov- ofvaccines are in use more cost-effectively than any form of ernment pays a worldwide, but 192 medication. On the research front many fixed price. Thus P otential candidates · f: . e . • only a fixed new 1deas are sur acmg .or new, Innovative for vaccines are ready amount of vac- for testing. This, vaccines for a variety ofillnesses .•. \ cine is produced along with the new eachyearforeach ideato incorporate business, may lead to an increase in disease con- trol. However, many are still skeptical,,about the collaboration between big business and public health bureaucracy. This was ttied in I 990 with the founding of the Children's Vac- cine Initiative (CVI) to push for the creation of heat stable, afford~ rope want the credit for what CVI has done, instead of just acknowl- edging that something has been done. Herein lies the problem: businesses want recognition for their work in order to increase rev- enue. Many fear that profits will get in the way of progr~ss. Their is still another view on this issue. The businesses involved disease. TI1is in tum raises an- other problem, that of the pos- sibility of a shortage in times \of epidemic. Barry Bloom, a researcherat Albert Einstein. College of Medicine propose that a vac- cine commission be created to assess supply and demand, in order to protect the population in times of epidemic as well as pro- tect the businesses in time of ex.- · cess supply. The prospect for vaccines is E,rreat, but the ability to use them to their fullest extent lies in the abil- ity of the prospective parties tone- gotiate and understand that public health is more important than in- dividual awards. Lee states that the present budget for the Global Pro- gram for Vaccine and Immuniza- tion is less than 30 million dollars, and he feels it needs to be about 70 million dollars. l11e ability to convince the government to sub- sidize this program and the ability of the program to create sound eco- nomic policy to keep the busi- nesses interested, will determine if the program and 'the use of VflC- cines will succeed in the near fu- ture. Source: Scientific American, Feb. 1994. How Developing Ne'urons Travel The Environmental Studies Program presents by Andy Salama Co-Science and Health Editor Over one hundred years ago, Santiago Ramon y Cajal discov- · ered what is known as the growth cone, the t:,rrowing segment of the axon. This nerve related behav- ior has been used to explain one of the most important events in developmental biology. It was then suggested that growth cones allow young developing neurons to make connections with other nerves and develop the adult or mattlre nervous system. How- ever the question remained, how do the cells know where to go? Cajal suggested that the mechanism of growth cone direc- tionality was based on certain substances released by the target cells. A research team from the Howard Hughs Medical Institute has discovered two s~1ch snb- stances, called chemotrophic pro- teins. The two proteins, netriti-1 and netrin-2 were derived from the ancient word \netr\ mean one who guides. Netrin-1 and netrin-2 have been shown to be responsible for the growth and orie1itation of particu- lar axons in certain lower verte- brates. Such axons branch off from the spinal chord and mi~:,rrate around to tissues in front of the spinal chOrd. This area is known as the floor plate. TI1e axons then self navigate themselves to the brain. Tissue culture experiments have exhibited similar results. When floor plate cells are grown in tl1e same culture dish as ex- planted spinal chord cells, they grow towards each other. Until now researchers have been unable to isolate a particular substm1ce that would induce such behavior due to the small size of the floor plate. l11e group at Howard Hughes Medical Institute purified netrin from 25,000 chick brains. T11ey were able to isolate an RNA tran- script (the blueprint for proteins) and were able to insert the RNA into a non-neuronal cell line. These new custom made cells ex- hibited the same behavior as the neurons had done in culture. An- other research group at the Univer- sity of California at Berkeley has found a similar protein called unc- 6, which elicits the same cell be- havior in nematodes. Although the two findings are distinct in that one system is an in- vertebrate and the other a verte- brate, neurobiologist, and cell bi- ologists are very optimistic. Marc Tessier-Lavigne hopes that l1is group at Howard Hugh and the UCB group will be able to share valuable trade secrets unlocking the clues to the development of the nervous system. ~ l.b '~lAYS -\o net-p SA'~e ~tlt\-\ l-~-'t89--98s-f. A Public Service of This PubliCation Earth SharesM Ken Silver A Question of Balance: Human Rights and Responsibilities in a World of Diminishing Resources January 17, 1995 5:00 PM, Humanities 0 19 Ken is a developer in New York State who is concerned with the natural, social, and economic environment in which we live. Among other things Ken is concerned with how our laws and economy favor development in areas that do not need it, while ignoring areas that do. Often the result of such poorly planned development is a net degradation of our natural environment, our soci- ety, and our economy. Ken is a very thoughtful person who asks questions about, and provides some answers for, matters that cut to the very heart of our society. SEXUAL SATISFACTION BY MARITAL STATUS AND VIEWS OF SEXUAL MORALITY 0% 25% 75% 100% MARRIED TRADITIONALIST MARRIED NON•TRADITIONALIST UNMARRIED TRADITIONALIST MARRIED TRAUITIONAUST N•277 IIJRRIID NON·TRA~IIONAUST Nzl57 UN ..... RI£0 iRAOinoHALIST N•ll3 UN~ARRIEO NoN·TRAOITiOtiAUSI N·93 VERY S/.tiSRED 72.3% 59.5% 50.2% 41.0% ' ' /6.2% 23.5% 17.3% 29.1% 2.6% 2.1% 2.3% 4.2% 111.7% 2.7% 6.2% 7,5% ' ' 2.6% 4.5% /2.11% /0.1% ' REFUSED 4.2% t;.Jf!J, 71% 6.2%

January 12, 1995, page 10 An Idea for Community Service at Union As we all know Union College's relationship with the city of Schenectady is not the best. Schenectady views the students as a bunch of the young adults who are just passing through, giving nothing back to the Schenectady community. President Hull is trying to forge a closer relationship with the community through Schenectady 2000. Although it is a great idea, it has not been as successful as it could be. Union students need an easier way to participate in community service. Greek organizations provide one means ofdonatingtime and money, but most ofthe charities they support are national and Schenectady does not see the benefits. One organization that many students volunteer their time to is Big Brothers/Big Sisters. Part of the reason for its success is the fact that there is an on campus coordinator and the school allows Big Brothers and Sisters the use of a vehicle to pick up their little brothers and sisters. The school could facilitate community service by implementing a program such as the community ser- vice program at Connecticut College. Connecticut College's student body is about the same size as Union's and it is located in a city that is economi- cally and socially similar to Schenectady. Connecti- cut College's program works like this. At the begin- ning of the year, they hold a fair similar to our activi- ties fair but with local community service organiza- tions. Students can walk around and see what type of community service work is available, whether it be working with a local Head Start Class or stuffing en- velopes for the American Red Cross. Once a student decides they want to perform community setVice and at which organization, the school provides the trans- portation. Work-study students drive studehts to and from the community service location free of charge. A community service program such as this one could easily be implemented by Union College and help amend our present relationship with the Schenectady community. · l<t1ebu~· · Mouss'eint~· E ··rlia:rat:NalvattfiEillirvat1iF~rav.~~i\i~D Rice~ Chti•stoph:Qi11gwald;.:$i'lily .Shakos~ : Shv¢t~ .Sti:V?.t~tav~; 'l<\i ··e ·t iln: • Steele, R.awsotlThurbet~ :Cartie Wh~el'l;)t.. . . . .• The Concordiensis meets> every Monday .and Ttu~sday of,.fhe ac~~ dernk year. lt is pt~blished by tile studeritlt oflLJt~lpirCollege nt~tl .·• in tto way reflects the ophti(ms oftlt~ co11¢ge, · · · ·· ··· OP-ED 'C!Iq~ <!In~rn:rbiensis ..,.., . .. .. OPINIONS News Flash! The Union College Bookstore Rips Students Off than the bookstore had just pur- by Tony Lavecchia chase<l them for. Concordiensis Staff An economist I'm not, but h1 Every week I find myself com- what other environment could a . plaining about something. So in business get away with this? The response to my critics who have bookstore is in an unbelievable pointed out that I am always nega- position. Theoretically speaking, tive, I have only one thing to .say. they could have bought a book The next time I go through a full from the publisher three years ago week without being incensed by for three dollars. Let's say the something that I view as being book originally sold new for five egregiously incorrect, I will not dollars. The book was then complain. Until that point in time, bottg\11 back at the end Qfthe tenn I will continue to. run my big. forotJ~dollar.Thentheitsedb0ok mouth. Since the last time I wrote was sold again next tenn for four . a column, I've had a profound and dollars. At the end of the tenn the rather shocking experience. No, I book was again bought back for was not visited by extraterrestri- a dollar and then sold again. This als, but rather I sold books back process can repeat itself until the to the book store. book becomes outdated. It seems I consider myself to be a fairly that the bookstore should use this reasonable guy. I'm not looking obvious economic advantage to for the school bookstore to be run extend a savir1gs to us the cus- out of charity. I do however ex- tomer. Instead it seems like they pect fair treatment. I brought a are participating in an unfair busi- psychology study guide fer eight ness practice. dollars and when I tried to sell it I'm not the only one who is back they offered me a dollar fifty. angered by the bookstore's prac- I couldn't do it. I would sooner tices. I walked over with several have bumed the book then sell it friends and they too left the book- back at that ridiculous discount. store in an angered state. I think What was even more agf:,'l'avat- something needs to be done. ing about the whole experience I think that with a little student was watching the bookstore organization we can all save each people simply restock the shelves other a lot money. We should start with the books that my peers had a .service that would by books just sold back. TI1ese books where back from students and then re- thenresoldatamuchhigherprice sell them at a more reasonable price. If this organization was profitable it could be taken even further. The organization could request a list of books teachers require for courses and start or- dering them from the textbook manufactures. TI1is organization would provide two services. It would allow students to spend less money on their books when the organization was founded. Second, it would force the book- store to lower its prices and end I ,. tl1:e bookstore's current n:i.o- nopoly. As the students on this campus have already proven with the food service, we are the consumers here. The food service has been forced to continually improve because of students mounting complaints. We should look at the bookstore situation in the same way. If we assert our positions as the consumer we will begin to receive treatment which is more fair. Now for those of you who don't know me I want to make a point. Despite all the complaints I have about Union, I still love it here. We have a great environ- ment both socially and academi- cally that can only be improved. My only goal in complaining about things is to try and make a great school an even better place to be. Edtioria~,Lerten&D~cbi~en Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP-ED Page and must be received by 4 p.m., the Monday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. Final Decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed, although the author's name need not appear in the newspapef, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of' the editorial board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and no one member in particular. Any opinion columns reflect the opinions of the writers, and not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial Board. Advertisements appearing in The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial .. Board. The Concordiensis is published eight Thursdays a tenn by the students of Union College. It is funded in part by the Student Activities Fee. The Concordiensis, copyright 1995, all rights reserved. Box 2577, College Center, Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308. Telephone (518) 388·6155. The Concordiensisis printed by l11e Leader Herald, 8-1 0 East Fulton Street, Gloversville, New York 12078. The C 'onc:ordien.1i.1 subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP), College Press Service, National Student News Service, King Syndicates. The ('oncordiensis is a lnetnber of the A.v.wwialed Collegiate Press. SUBMISSIONS :All submissions are due the Monday before publication, at 4 p.m. if they are submitted on either Macintosh Microsoft Word disks, or MS-Dos Microsoft Word or Wordperfect disks. Otherwise, all submissions are due Friday by 4 p.m. in the drop box outside of The Concordiensis office on the third floor ofthe College Center.

\ LETTERS January 12, 1995, Page 11 . RPI Fans Upset By Union Students•· B.ehavior Subjective Objectivism? To the Editor: I am writing you with regards to the RPI-Union hockey game on Saturday night, December 3rd. I have been to many hockey games at the Houston Field Hmise, but this one was probably the one I will remembe.r the most with re- gret and a sense of anger due to some Union students who were in attendance. I do not mind all the yelling back and forth between RPI and Union fans/students, but this time it was different. Before the game commenced, there was the usual playing of Canada's National Anthem and then the \Star- Spangled Banner.\ During the playing of the Star-Spangled Ban- ner,\ when they got to the verse \and the rockets red glare,\ the Union fans mostly students, shouted \you suck.\ Many oft he attendees at the game were ap- palled and disgusted with this behavior. I know that they were refening to the RPI hockey team, but still I feel, along with many others, that yelling \you suck\ in the middle of the \Star-Spangled Banner\ is not appropriate behav- ior. Somewhere along the way these students lost respect for our flag and our country. I un- derstand that it is common prac- tice to yell \U: in the first verse ofthis song,Oh say can you see\ at Union games, and tlu~t RPI does the same .thing at \the rock- ets red glare.\ I don't think that this is the cmTect thing to do ei- ther, though they are s(lying the right words. \You suck\ is defi- nitely not part of this song. I always thought that Union College was a prestigious uni- versity with a lot of class; but after this incident, I do not feel the same. I know how ex\Jber- ant students can he as I work at RPI in the School of Manage- ment in the Student Services Office. I feel something should be done regarding the above in- cident. 1 don't know what that could be. but no one should be allowed to disgrace the flag; our country or your university. Thank you for your time with regards to my complaints, and hopefully this type of behavior will never happen again. Sincerely, Linda and Frank Nastacie Jody Mousseau Concordiensis Staff Last Thursday evening, I cou- rageously and reluctantly sacri- ficed my opportunity to view the episode of Seinfeld in which Krammer's first name was re- vealed and I attended the lecture by Parker Palmer entitled \The Violence of our Knowledge.\ I mn not an ethical or philosophi- cal expe1t, simply a humble po- litical science major, but Palmer's theories simply did not satiate my philosophical needs. Palmer used the philosophy of Objectivism and society's objec- tivist obsession to support his · ideas of higher education. Objec- tivism is, according to Palmer, :'distancing the knower from the thing known.\ Ayn Rand used this theory as the base of her nov- els, including Atlas Shmgged. 1he Fountainhead, and Anthem\' The themy did not initially appeal to me anyway, but she definitely put it into much better perspective. Not utterly perplexed, simply slightly confused. I sat and lis- tened to him .speak. Parker is un- ~-~~~. ·.;::::-:-:::-:~~=:-::;.;:;:;.~:=:·:=:-~::::;:;:;::;;:::~;:::::::::::::;:;:;:;.;:;.;:::::::::::::::;:;:;::~::::.:::;:;:::;:;::~=::;::::.;-:-:~1:=·-:::: -::::::::::::::-:::::.::~-=~-:::::::::::-:::=:~:;:;:;:;:;.:·:-. :-~;:;:;.;:;:~:-: •·•·• ~: ~ :•: .-. ,-_• .: ;:,.;·:·.: - :-.-:-.-~::: ;:;-; ::;.;;.;::=:·:-:-:-~:=::;:;.;:.•:;:;:;:;.; .-:-:=:~:;.;:;·;.;.;:;:;::·:-:=:-:-::: :-:=:=:=:-:=:-; :::=:=:~~::-:-:=:t·-:-:=:~-:=:-·=:-·=·-;:;:;·: :; .• :. •• ~: ~::·. ,•.!· •• : : : • •• ::: : ••• -~:: 1frH [! IP fEW= ~fEW V©~~ IP ~©«DfltAM a~ (JJ ~UD!tfR.<GilAID)!!JA 'TilE ~ CCU rE~ClE [E ID)!!J(CA iJ~©N Summer 1995 Student Research Opportunities A unique opportunity to gain research experience with a faculty mentor and work with students front other colleges and universities at one of the following institutions: • Barnard College • Hamilton College • Colgate University • Manhattan College • Cornell University • Saint Lawrence University • Union College 8-10 WEEK SUMMER PROGRAM $2,000.00 STIPEND PLUS $500.00 TRAVEL/HOUSING EXPENSES FOR AN APPLICATION OR FOR FURTHER DETAILS, CONTACT YOUR INSTITUTIONAL REPRESENTATIVE: Dean CAris t, n. s-o rum J( .,233 Or call CORNELL UNIVERSITY 607-255-2710 .·: .. ·······~.:~:!•' 1 't'·''i}i;:•jwtn•:i;'dx~NA~o ~atite~::eb'tb.\rE uNt~e~$iW:;eoaNEtl UNIVERSITY ·.· < ······:. ':•fiM\ritON•OO:t\tEOE:lMANH~1TAI'il COttEGE,;ST.l~WR~NCE UNIVERSI1Y~.UNIONCOLLECE doubtedly a brilliant and gifted speaker, but many gray areas were not touched on. This weak- ened the support of his theory. One gray area was his \paradox of the objective and subjective.\ Perhaps paradox was not the cor- rect word. Conflict or even death would have made more sense. I agree that society is obsessed with textbook leaming and mak- ing everything technical and for- mal in order to analyze and un- derstand. However, we shouldn't have to label something that is concretelyobjective as su~jective. Parker did not give enough re- sponsibility tothe individual and left it almost completely with the institutions. We cannot make what is already objective subjec- tive. People have to ,Jeam to find the subjectivism for themselves and not have to have it spoon-fed to them. Experimenting and ana- lyzing is an intimate a thing as creating is, and this is the fact that Palmer took for granted. Creat- ing is one thing; analyzing i£ ma- nipulating in order to create some- thing else. He made it sound as if in simply reading a textbook for homework, it would be impos- sible to analyze without main- taining its objectivism. He stated that the \objective ana- lytic, and experimental\ aspects are \deeply distorted in our time.\ I believe that he was dis- tmting them more than anyone would have seen in a textbook world of papers and ~:,>rades, and perhaps even killed them in the process We have to .find our own in whatever we C011front. Palmer fom1d that the problem lies, much of the time, in the ways of teaching. 1 think it is more in society's perception of what MUST be objective or subjec- tive. By continuing to overem- phasize the difference and cru- cial importance of the existence of the difference, we are killing the reason for reading into or not reading into something. While the world transforms into a subjective mass of objectiv- ism, I'm simply going to relax and read what I want to read and see what I want to see. YMCA Must GO! To the Editor: For the most part I love seeing hoekey played live, especially seeing Union play. I had only one problem with Friday and Sat- urday night'sgames, simply put, the music selection is getting an- noying. Do not get me wrong, I enjoy hearing music to get the fans and players hyped up. The problem is that the selection of music is poor at best. At least half of the music played was annoying 70's disco stuff that almost put me to sleep, and none the less made me em- barrassed to be a Union College Hockey fan. Playing YMCA four times during the game brought my hat off to cover my face at least that many times. Some people might enjoy this music, however, I believe that much better selections could be made. Basically put, I want to see the soft rock and disco stuff cut out. Modem techno and heavy metal will do a mucl1 better job at get- ting the fans psyched up to see some kick-ass hockey. Also, the timingofthe music on Saturday's game was horrific. Playing the sports center theme tune after Colgate scored was inappropriate and caused several crowd mem- bers to scream: \Shut that s**t off!\ Also, at least two times during the weekend I heard more then one song being pi ayed at a time. This is just poor mixing and should not happen. Now that we have this greatly improved sound system in the rink. and the vic- tory hom, I think that we should at least do the fans justice by playing a much better mix of music. Don't throw out all ofthe mu- sic you have either, some of the stuff is good. The sports center theme is quite enjoyable (when played at the right time) and the 2-Unlimited theme tune \Twi- light Zone\ is also all right. The key is cut out the cheesy stuff and the repetition and mix it up a little. Doing so will make the games much more enjoyable for players and fans. Sincerely, Brett Saunders saunderb@tardis.union.edu AU letters to the Editor must be submitted on HD disk on Word 5.0 or lower along with a haa·d copy. Letters are due by 4PM on Mondays .. Letter·s can be sent to the Opinions Editor at Box 2577 or can be left at The Concordiensis office CC303. If no one is in the office, there is a box out front that will be checked before the deadline. Letters can be edited by the editors of The Concordiensis if the content is not appropriate for printing. ~u letter that is submitted aftea· the deadline o1· saved in the wa·ong fot·mat will be pa·inted in the newsp~1pcr. .· -

! ' •• , I • January 12, 1995, page 12 COMICS Thatch by JeffShesol t'\OST N'\eR,lC~f' S \;.ftt.Y ~l'\OC~C'f '~\ \A'T' \St''T WoF-\T\ T\e TRou~Le. ... RUBES® I-I(LLQ FtJLICE? The Concordien- sis would like to · have as many J:D LIKE 10 REPcRT A P£EPIN61JM. Thatch by JeffShesol FI~El). ANOTHEIZ. ThMP.JO& INIH6CAN. I creative Union students as pos- sible contribute with their own cartoons. They don't need to be editorial car- toons. Just draw something relating to your life at Union. I'M A '\TW~NT)'SOMent I Ne •• Cl..ICHe, THATl.+t { E.VE~y MI.S J L.-001'.- FO~ WO~i!: 1£ .. -·· \\'\'\\ SA'/.•we·~~ SOfZ~'I- you.• Nor Gr.tAl.IFIW FO~ AI .... llliii'\Wool J06 .. SLIT yo,;'fZ..E ...... _ ... ..,_ FO~A TEMP Joa·· ... ./ {-tHIS ... IS TME:U~ HOUFC!., ~6A,J,V~ ~~ \ME:L.~~\ . ()N AL.fZ.EA_py ~ ) .;-· ~~%, -~ ..... r \\;.. • ..

.. LIVING January 12~ 1995, page 13 Searching for the Simple Pleasures in Life: < - Beyond the Faded Candy Cinderellas and the Spent Prince Charmings by Alex Shapiro Living Editor Amidst the seemingly dismal pandemonium of the second week in a ten week tenn, in the veritable wilderness that be- comes our waking reality and penneates our sleep reaping dis- turbing havoc in our dreams; the prospect of sticking yotrr head through the translucent fog of head spinning re- sponsibility and spotting the harvest moon of solace seems specious at best. Be- yond the faded candy cinderellas and the spent prince channings, past the dog eared texts and the useless note- ~. books that speak only of bore- dom, past the certain impend- ing doom of the piper collects his due June 11; there are things so primally pure, so completely resilient to socialization or cor- ntption, so unstained by the guilty hands of the other, that they absolutely transcend ten- sion. These are the simple plea- sures. S im pie pi easures are as var- ied and abundant ·as your imagina- tion can stretch. Some are ··---._ perfectly mindless, like a thing· in itselfthey are no more or less than what they seem. Playing with a ball, breaking bottles where no-one cates, eating flesh (kidding), climbing trees, riding bikes, whacking golf balls in the woods, active motions devoid of purpose or competition but no less in connection with the mystery of what is fun. 111ese work on physical and urge based principles, they satisfy the need to escape thought and rea- son for a few precious moments and just float around in the vagueness of pleasure only tenously tethered to responsibil- ity by passing time. Especially now when our minds are taxed by all things at once, there is something magical about a ball. Other simple pleasures are entirely cerebral. Daydream- ing, reading on the fringe, writ- ing to someone who isn't ex- pecting a letter about the latest and most excrutiatingly unpo- etic of your foolish endeavors Diane and Dex Are Here to Stay Dear Diane and Dex, I have a serious problem and I don't even know where to begin. I have been seeing my boyfriend for over a year now and I love him dearly. but he has philandering hands. I should have known it from the beginning that he could never be a one woman man .. We had only been seeing each other for 2 weeks when he hooked up with one of my pledge sisters. He passed it off as, well we're not going steady, so we can still see other people. I thought that I could tame him and he would love me so much that he would not desire other girls. Little did I know that his fra- temity has a point system and depending on how far you go with each girl you would get points for each action or con- quest, and the brother with the most points at the end of the year wins. As a matter of pride and competitiveness, my boy- friend could not stand not to be in first place. So while he was seeing me for the last year he has also been hooking up with other girls, and I was oblivious to it all. I just folmd out that he hooked up with four of my sis- ters on weekends that I went home. I am the laughing stock of my sorority. No one respects me anymore and why should they? I have been standing by my man, not realizing what a scumbag he is and how badly he has been treating me. He does not respect me and nei- ther does anyone else. For the last year of my life he has been the only person I have cared about. I did every- thing for hi1n. He told me that our sex life would improve if I worked out and lost weight. I sacrificed not only my health but my studies for him. I would help him with his problem sets, even if it jeopardized how I would do on an exam the next day. I put his studies in front of my own. It was more important for him to do well than for me to do well. I know that he is not right for me but I keep telling myself that he will change and every- thing will be alright. I cannot imagine not being with him. I let all of my friends fall by the wayside so I could spend all my time with him. I don't even think I have friends anymore. Please help. Dicked Over. Diane: First things first, I want you to stand in front of your mirror and say outloud to your- self. \I'm smart, I'm beautiful and gosh darn it people like me.\ You don't have to be a dork about it like Ed Smalley, but do it because it really works. Then as soon as you talked yourself up, I want you to march over to his room and say \You suck, you are a slime ball and I don't need you any- more, I am my own person.\ Walk away and do not let him respond. It is obvious that he can manipulate you with words and you do not want him to do that to you again. If he tries to call you deny him for at least two weeks. You need time away from him so that you can see that you tmly are your own person. As for your friends, the p.eople who were friends with before you started seeing that putz will still probably be your friends. Sta11 with your room- mate, she was your friend last year or she would not be roomming with you. Do some- thing with her. Go out to din- ner or a movie. Then start to work on rebuilding your other friendships. You will gain your friends back with a little effort on your part. You are just having a bad period right now, soon as you dump that putz you will start to regain you dignity and self- esteem. Dex: Dicked Over, you cer- tainly got the rough end of the stick. The Spanish had a spec- tacular way of dealing with per- sonal injuty, hard core revenge. Your revenge can be as simple or as complicated as you can handle. One way of getting back at this ex is to completely blow his point spread. Go to his house and take out your sweet revenge, you can humili- ate him too with a little slan• der. To believe that your friends don't respect you any- more is absurd, they're just jealous that you had a boy- friend and they didn't. Broken hearts are best mended with ice-cream and brownies, as ev- eryone knows, but don't blow up now that no-one 's telling you to work out. You need to get a sensitive guy who will do your homework. A sap you can push around a little bit. Some freshman that will grovel at the feet of any woman who gives him play. He'll probably brag to his friends about you and then they 'II want you too. TI1is could snowball into something really positive that your friends will become jealous of. Do you smell that? It's the bumt rub- ber you're about to lay on your mission towards infamy- Good luck my sweet. and laughing at yourself, bend- ing spoons, discussing the fu- tility of a serendipitous life when faced with the over- whelming obstacles of illusion and tainted vision, crossword puzzles, thesearepleasures that spin the gears of the mind in fresh ways that inspire what Steely-Dan called \Babylon and Dean Moriarty called \it a withdrawal from \seems'~ to \is.\ Simple pleasures can't be confused with complex plea- sures. If a pleasurable acitivity has a purpose or consequence that lasts longer than a day af- ter it's over, it isn't simple. Simple pleasures are almost defined by what they are not. They exist independent of rea- son and are predicated in intu- ition. Tap in and take off; it's re- ally the freedom of being left to boil in the broth of your own nothingness that is so fun any- way, so why not? It doesn't have to take up much time, the work will be there when you get back. Ar-es (Marchll toAp,-n 19) Stay away fromLoothis week, it can be nothing but bad. Luck~ ily,. Gemini1s looking right for love. You may want to recon~ . sid.er a:.decisiou.made in haste, time waits for no man (or . woman). Taurlls (April2:0 to May 20) Eve.nit~g shades of temporruy madness may knock you for a loo,p, b\tt hang on becatt.se Jlte weekend soon comes to wash away all the confusion. Sollletimes tlte hardest part of the jour- ney is :in recognizing that it never ends. Gemint(Maylt ti>Jnne 2f}) The proof of the pudding is in the tasting- it's time to get crack- ing because though there will be no thne for counting 'till the dealers done, the dealer is done. Count 'em Up and be pre- pared to lay them down or eat humble pie. No one is going to can your bluff for a while. Ca,ncer (June 21 to .ftdy 22) You're all hot and bothered, the best advice is to restrain your evil thoughts fol' a while until some sanity breaks into your sunny day reaJ estate. ~; Leo (July 23 to Augast 22} Welcome news from far away friends brightens your week~ end. Put off today that wl'iich can be done tomntorow, Fi~ nances may be tight, look for opportunity in the unexpected. Virgo (Aqgust23 toSeptember22) . l'J1is w~k isca good.timje .~·~lax apd look around. Feeling · fds~y i1:ttdpl'aytltl; even d!)~tightltol'Jlestyle? Fret not, help m:Q,y,b¢\ your~n~se~ T~ke {ldvatttage of some time · 'O'ft\:t{) tlil1nk.: . • ... · .. :· · · ·· · , . · :tillt · · · · · ~~t·21)~ o~·t9,-,er 22) iv:~;>r~~~:Y !()ss Y'!tl.·~bo~lt this week. Tty to tjarrow .. t<:di.!~'~;Qnd·thing;~,,~.updon't discolmt the . ~.j·d··.: .•.. '.· .... o •. a.•.:.,.•~~.,.tna··.~.·.: ... ·.·.·.:.·.:.:.'.·.i·.··· . of~t~.~,h~$,tljlin,s. Qet.sleep when you can. ~.., •·v v .•• ;i~fto~~v~m~trZ1) ... ·. Sif.tin~ tbtQ.\l . . s •ttf h~~onsiste11c;y may be your biggest pf;obi~~·th!~··'Y~r .··ilnj{Jykthe ·~ompmty of.;peaple you can more or ·leaN..~iltt&f:>ii\lil:\t k<€~p an e-ye- out for fals¢ runhition. Start over wit'~\ tt1at$peei~l$bt.neoile, gettrmi'reaquainted could be even better t!\rut. tli~:~JJSt time. ·· Sagittavius (~'fJVttnber a2 toO December 21) TI1is w~k holds :pecutiatpossibi·lities for you andy ours. Love? Nay, probably not, Focus on tile facial expressions of your peers. . :t:iapr.ieorn. (J>e.~c~Enj:ber·2;2ttJ January. f9) An open and··it1\4Utt!;fattittide will get you far this week. Dis- regard the shortctnniftgs of others as their own ineptitudes and . ··.!thine on, yell will truly be a crazy :diamond thts week. · f\,qua:rius (la'ltuaty lO to Febtua ry 18) · · The small arnount of mainteMmce that a potential someone special may appear to reqtJire should not hinder or interfere in · any way with your feelings. Physical activities such as run- iling and the gym may serve you well if you get started this · week. · Pisces (February 19 fl> March 20) A love from a long time past finds the way ii1to your heart · figain. Don't be afhid, they won 'tlet you falL Play your cards right and Tife will hand ycu aces1

January 12, 1995, page 14 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT The year in Review - compiled hy Leena Mankad. Who did what this year and where were they? 1994 was a packed year for entertainers, the birth of many careers and the waHing of many as well. With the aid of Entertainment Week~v. here is a summary of who did what: Top 12 Entertainers oftbe Year 1. Tom Hanks 2. Tim Allen 3. Quentin Tarantino 4. Heather Locklear 5. Jim Carrey 6. Michael Crichton 7. Hugh Grant 8. Ricki Lake 9. Boys II Men Top Ten Films of1994 1. Ed Wood 2. Hoop Dreams 3. Pulp Fiction 4. Quiz Show 5. Four Weddings and A Funeral 6. Heavenly Creatures 7. The Lion King 8. Speed 9. To Live Things we could have forgot were: The OJ Sitnpson furor, which infuriated millions of Days t?{Our Uve.\· fans ... Roseanne TV movies .... Models Inc. which was just plain stupid ... and The Richard Bey Show .. . Richard who? And a round of applause to Heather Locklear for saving many an actor's ass andj.ob on Melrose Place ... Best Come-back award. I 0. Dennis Franz 1 0. The Wonderful, Horrible Life of Leni Riefenstahl Tnp Ten iu Music: 11. Brett Butler 12. Trent Reznor Commel1ts: \I would just have place Jim Carrey and Hugh Grant at the top of my list. With The Mask and Dumb and Dumber, Carrey just m11de me fall out of my chair laughing at his ridiculous stunts and one liners ... (he's kinda cute too when he's not making faces) ... and Hugh Grant- the accent, the face, what more is there to say?\ Top 10 TV 1. X Files 2.111e Sinipsons Bottom Ten Filmsof1994 I. Corinna, Corinna 2. The Flinstones 3. I Love Trouble 4. The Santa Clause 5. Star Trek Generations 6. Wyatt Earp 7. Tl1e Professional 8. Time Cop 9. Stargate 10. Ace Ventura: Pet Detective Comments: ., 1. Beck: Mellow Gold 2. Live: Through This Hole 3. Soundgarden: Superunkown 4. Above the Rim-The Soundtrack 5. Madonna: Bedtime Stories 6.Jeff Bnckley: Grace 7. W aterl ill i es: Tempted 8. Warren G: Regulate G Funk Era 9. Sebath: Bake sale 10. Lt!scious Jackson: Natural Ingredients A Few Bad Eggs- 3. NYPD Blue 4. Late Show with David Lettennan 5. The Larry Sanders Show 6. My So-Called Life Leena: I didn't like The Lion King at all, but besides that, The Mask~ Reality Bites, When A Man Loves A Woman were all cool flicks too. Dm:l.\' II by Frank Sinatra was pretty raunchy and l11e .ff I Were a ( 'arpenter was full of cheez whiz. Gloria Estefan played with our nerves as well, and l11e Artist-Fonnerly-Known-as-Prince had a cool song, \The Most Beautiful Girl In the World,\ but that changing his name stunt he pulled brought him zero points. We don't even have printers that can print his new name! Oh yeah- Me 'She! Ndege Ocello? What's that all about? 7. Roseanne 8. South Central 9. Frasier 10. ER A Few Silly Things- Leena Concordy Best Comments: -· Suzanne: I can't believe that Frasier made it in the top ten show. I mean one can only take so much of the guy. I have.a question, how many kids does Roseanne plan to have on the TV show. Can't she tell that they just keep getting worse and worse. l11is year I've learned to appreciate Reba Mcintyre and Randy Travis a bit more, thanks to my friend ., ' Connie who goes to school in good 'ol Ohio. I've also learned that the running theme of any good country song involves a man, a woman, a failed relationship, and a bottomless beer mug where these sorrows are usually drowned. At1eastJ stopped listening to Barry ManiJoYVr! ... - .. Sed's Bourbon Street crawl. Line's ten too many. Dave's thesis to Tahiti. Maine's, \So you're the famous ... \ and Laurel's all too close encounter with a mac truck and backing down the highway. ~s --{PIZZA SHOP) Pizza· Subs I Salads· Specialty Breads !lours: M-S01t. II· I I !'Ill ·Sun. 12·8Jllll 347~1559 1621 Union Street ( ou Keyes Ave.) Sdtenectady WE DELIVER FREE TO CAMPUS 8 Cut Cheese Pizza 8 Cut Cheese- Pizza $5.75 $5.75 - ~.IA'S. •Tc~iplntsaddlllnnal -~fA'S •Tnpplngsadciillnnal ~-~ ·Onrmupunpmllll ~ ·Ourrnuponprrvlllt ~dwllhn~nunly· ___ • t-v.1~1~u~n~ _ ...;_ _ 12 Cut 12Cut Cheese Pizza Cheese Pizza $6.95 $6.95 ~IA'S •Ti~'plni,l'cfdlllnnal ~IA'S •Tfllllllngsaddlllnml ~ •Onrronponjll'rvlsll ~ •Onr('OlJponprclislt ~.did wflh mupmJ only-· v.JII~ with mujmn only • · Sigma Phi Society Semi-Formal Rush Dinner January 19 + 26 at7PM Distractions]rom Re;ality by Suzanne Robinson Arts Editor After a relatively short winter break, you are back at Union, ready to put the nose to the grind- stone, supposedly. A few things that might distract you from your studies other then the usual, are the recent writings of Anne Rice, author of the famous Interview with the Vampire. She presents yet another intriguing and sus- penseful tale of a universe filled with death, life, corruption, and innocence, in her newest story 7'altos, Lives (~f the Mayfair Witches. The novel tells the his- tory of a civilization tl1at is part human, at odds with \mortality immortality, justice, and guilt\. Taltos is the third of a saga that began with The Witching Hour and Lasher, and is just as hyp- notic and mesmerizing as her other novels if not more so. If this doesn't particularly at- tract you attention; you might want to check out Tom Clancy's latest; Debt (!f Honor. The story follows the life of Jack Ryan, who is to serve. as the president's new- est security advisor. He reaJj.zes. that even though the country is at peace, the nation 1 s security is still as diffictdt and· complex as when at war. Jackhas to face new enemies that strike at America's economy and territory. 1l1isnovel is a roller coaster ride whose ad- venture mwer stops until the stmy is over. It has been said· that this is Tom Clancy's \mast gripping, most timely novel yet.'' One novel I found particularly i11teresting was Marlo Morgan's intriguing, Mutant Message Down Under. It is a story of a 50-year- old American health-care profes- sional who decides to take a va- cation in Australia. He partici- pates in a I ,400 mile \walkabout\ throngh the Australian Outback with a tribe of Aboriginals. On this trip he discovers 50,000-year- old spiritual tmths and current Ab- original philosophies conceming modern people, or \mutallts.\ This novel was once an under- bl'fotmd bestseller and has just been re-released for mainstream read- ers. It is \one of the most fasci- nating books· I have. ever read,\ comments Og Mandino. So if you feel Hkeprocrastinat- ing and escaping from Schenectady's harsh winters, pick up one of these intriguing novels and let yourself become fidly en- grassed in another life, if only for a couple of hours. •

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT January 12, 1995, Page 15 Weiner Comes to Dutch With Others Free Performance by Zulu Dance Theatre by Leena Mankad Arts Editor Dutch was graced with three comedic sensations this past Sat- urday night. Kevin Downey Jr. came to the stage first followed by Amy Foster and twelve year veteran, Rob Weinstein. The night was a success with a great tumout. Kevin Downey, Jr., dealt with a tough crowd at first, but h.is act proved to be funny nevetiheTess. With his frowzy hair and his comic style, Downey, Jr. enter- tained all. Foster mingled with the audi- ence and had originality in her presentation. She picked on a few audience metnbers up front in a friendly way, making a humorous routine ofit. Especially amusing was her posing for out own Lau- rel Ruml},. The ( 'oncordiensis photographer in the middle of her performance. Apparently the flash bulb was getting on her nerve. Rob Weinstein definitely stole the show with a hilarious routine that cracked jokes about everya thing from babies to sex. OR is that sex to babies? At any .rate, his stand-up skills of twelve years were definitely worth watching. Weiner has appeared on MTV, NBC, Lifetime and numerous comedy shows. His brand of comedy is extremely clever and his routine flowed smoothly. Weiner entertained for over an hour and kept the laughs going strong. The trio overall, did an outstandit1g jotl. by Suzanne Robinson Arts Editor The Zulu Dance Theatre of South Africa will give a free public perfonnance on Monday, January 30, in Union College's Memorial Chapel at 7 pm. The perfonnance at Union is to be the first stop on a national tour by the group. This company of dancers, singers and musicians presents a u11ique and exotic fonn of Af- rican theatre which is seldom seen outside of South Africa. Although their name implies an affinity with the historic Zulu · nation, their repertoire includes songs and dances of the Xhosa, Shagaan and Soto peoples. A Zulu perfonnance is a fusion of cultural traditions representative of several areas ofSouth Africa. l11e company has been care- ful to maintain the authenticity of their perfonnance; the style The repertoire of Zulu em- braces a series of statements, ex- pressions and themes which re- flect elements of life in South Africa. Their message, how- . ever, is universal; it is one of brotherhood, individual dignity and the survival of the human spirit. To pmtray this message, Zulu uses ethnic fonns coupled with traditional songs and mu- sic which weave a picture of the hopes, fears, frustrations and excitement which reflect life in their homeland. Members of Zulu have per- fanned in several foreign coun- tries including England, France, Nigeria, New Zealand, Canada and the United States. Zulu will be conducting pri- vate master classes for two lo- cal dance t:,rroups- the Burundi and Umoja African dance troupes. Left to rig/it comedians Rob Weiner, An{v Fos~er, a11d Kevi11 Dow11ey, Jr. (photo by Laurel Ruma/TC) . · and movements of each dance, for example, are identical to those being perfonned on cer- emonial occasions in South Af- rica. l11e songs, most ofwhich are sung in the original lan- guage, are unchanged. Some of the costume designs are centu- ries old and represent the attire wom by Zulu warriors over 400 years ago . Co~sponsors at Union are Academic Opportunity Pro- gram, African Studies, African and Latino Alliance of Students, the History Department, Per- fanning Atis Depatiment, and the Sci.ence Technology J::ntry Pro!:,rram. Also co-sponsoring are Schenectady County Com- munity College's Multicultural Affairs Office and Black and Latino Alliance of Students. Mondays and Wednesdays: 4:30 -5:45 pm 6:00 - 7:30pm 6:30 - 8:00 pm Tuesdays: 12:30- 1:20pm 5:30 - 7:00 pm 7:00 - 8:30 pm 7:00 - 9:00 pm Wednesdays: 4:30 - 5:45 pm 6:00- 7:30 pm 7:00 - 9:00 pm 7:30 - 9:00 pm · Thursdays: 6:00- 7:30pm PAS PAS AB215 PERFORMING ARTS PRACTICA Winter. 1995 Modern Dance-Section II January 9th 1st class Combined Ballet January 9th 1st class Union College Choir January 4th 1st rehearsal AB 313 Flute Choir January Jrd lst rehearsal PAS Balletlll PAS Ballet I January Jrd 1stclass January Jrd 1st class Memorial Chapel Union College Orchestra PAS PAS AB313 PAS PAS January lOth 1st rehearsal lntro. to Dance Movement January 4th 1st class Modern Dance-Section I January 4th !sf class Jazz Ensemble January 4th 1st rehearsal Dance Ensemble January 4th 1st meeting Ballet II January5th 1stclass Bien Sinopoli, Instructor Darlene Myers., Instructor Prot. H.A, Wilson Conductor Jill Panitch, Instructor Darlene Myers, Instructor Darlene Myers., Instructor Prot. H. Tann, Conductor Ellen Sinopoli, Instructor Ellen Sinopoli, Instructor Prof. T. Olsen, Director Prot. T. Smith, Instructor Dat!ene Myers, Instructor Vocal and instrumental instruction available on request. Course:crediJ:is·ovoilable lot J conseculive terms in the pracfica program. Visit the Performing Arts office tor de/ails . . :.·· \'' .. .. ~ . .'

January 12, 1995, Page 16 PERSONALS/CLASSIFIEDS Personals Jenni- I swear to you that I wasn't trying to keep anything from you. What kind of hope would I have of that anyway. Think of how many people told you about it. Thanks for the Christmas card I will never forget. Call me if you need anything, I'll always be here to attempt to cheer you up. Love, Hepsaba Little VA - So, when will I see you again? I expect you to come visit me soon. I miss you when you are so far away. I hope the new apartment is working out better. Love, Wiggle Bri - I'm so glad that you are back. I missed you so much while you were away. Can you Image that we only have 20 more weeks untiJ we nenver have to breathe Schenectady air again? What wil I do without you. l won't think about that yet, though Love - Heather \Reinis Reinis. he's our man - If he can't do it ... \ should we call Sam??? If you are bored with second- hand somke, and bar-mung on your shoes, and waking up next to that ugly someone, then you should give the OUTING CLUB a try. We'll be going hiking this weekend. Are you in? Contact Jeff at 6802. Mimi - I'm so verklemt! What color should I paint my kitchen??? Perhaps ... beige? Love, Boots SWF seeks SM fvor friendship, more? Must enjopy sex in semi- public places- (West) Beacg does not count. Reasonalby sane men should apply in person outside the Phi Beta Kappa room tonight. Amy Honnone- We found your keys. Paper ate them. He finally has some stuffing! Love, The Lunch Crew! Littles- Hope all is well in Kenya. Try not to \grow\ too much, be- cause if you do I won't be albe to call you \Littles.\ Can't wait to see you! Here's to Brazil in '95! Love, Hack-Person CorVET! So-uh, whatcha doin'? Good luck in all your work, you old person! I can't wiat to go sled- ding! -Your Iii' Vet, Blondie LJ, BK. and I: Hi Roomies! Rahjah hugs! I hope we get some heat in our Canadian room! Gone with the wind! Striker, Comy, Felix, n, and Rah - LDSC! Rah - I'm still working on getting e-mail! Hi, CL! Gnrr! Mandanga, I wihed for you: 11 : 11.11 on the 11th day of the II th month. - Master DU -Thanks for all the fun and games.- SDT Beta - It was aB amazing party. Thanks. - U1e Sisters ofSDT Ei- You always make me smile- Thanks, bob Pudge + Mel - I can't feel my teeth. Carson - I guess you've been wild all along and we just didn't know it! -Ali Karin- to the best, thanks for put- ting up with all my psycho quali,.. ties. - Ali Elmo - I htink I can! I know you can. Keep up the good work. Love, your moral support & con- science Pudge, Carson & Me.l -I can't feel my teeth. Bugs and Shmooz - Thanks for being there. It means so much and I love you ... - Squidgy Guid - Don't worry it's all just words. 'Heads.' Merry Christmas. - Ros. A - I know I'm not always the most thoughful person and I'm always forgetting, there is one thing l never forget and that is how much I love you. Have a nice day, honey. J. \The Retum ofRed Crow is Janu- ary 11. Look out RPI, you not good punks!\ Dave - I quit! It was nice know- ing you. I will leave my hooded sweatshi11 to your next partner in crime, so you never have to miss me too much. -the nut Vixen - It's your tum for the ce- ment mixer. Anytime.- The Boys. To \The Man\ -\Where have you been all my life?\ I'd sit next to you on the \Group W bench,\ anywhere for that matter. I guess I can handle being called cute for the umpteenth time, as long as it's with you! I guess the three years was wmth the wait. Love - \A Long, Long Time Ago ... \ Guild- \Whatever became of the moment when one first knew of 'death? There must have been one, a moment in ones childhood when it first occurred to you that you d,,n't go on living. It must have been shattereing, stomped into ones mind, and yet I can't remem- ber it. What do you make of that? We must be hom with a sense of mortality. Before we even know the word for, before we even know there are words, we come out blooodied and squalid with the knowledge that for all the com- passes in the world there is bue one and time is its only measure.\ - Ros B + S - I'd like to find a small white rabbit, and dress it in a bon- ilet, and tell it that it is an over- bearing controlloing rabbit that gets on our nerves. I'd also like to tell this rabbit and her playmate to stop being so, prolific and cud- dly. Do you agree? United we stand! - Sqidgy Rob- Rob, Rob, Rob. Your na,e rhymes with Mob. I like your spr.ees. They come iwhout Fees. And- I'm glad you take your vi- tamins. - Squidgy Sheryl Ann -Just think, only one more tenn to bask in the lovliness of the fact that 1'1n nenverhome. Then you'll have to get used to hanging around with me again. Hope yot) don't mind too much. - Love the Independent Rach - Thank you very much for always.being there! Love- Tony To Andy and Jeff and Josh -You guys are the best group of whackies I know. -Tony Mom - Thanks for all the pack- ages, and- tha11ks for: always thinking of me. Don't worry about me too much. Only one more tenn of the newspaper, and then back to sanity. I love you lots - Heather Fruit- I hope your knee gets bet- ter soon. Sorry you got hurt again, but at least it gave you some free time to do work. I was so happy to see you this week- end. Keep working hard, kiddo. Love, Sister Sethy Boy- Thanks for the b-day present. I love my new mousey! Please don't stress too much this tenn and remember big sis loves ya! hugs and kisses - sis Rich - They really aren't worth the agony. I'm so sorry that they have hurt you, but they are wrong, and nener question that. Good luck with the Irish women though. I was so impressed about Beth. Knock me over with a feather. Please, do come and visit me. I would love for you to meet everyone here. I'm sony all of these people have tumed out to be such a disappointment, but life will retum to happiness soon. I guarentee it. Love - Heather Mom, Dad & Shan- Thanks for a great Christmas. I love you! -Heather Jonathan - Thanks for the shots and hanging out with me. It was loads of fun. We will have to do it again. Love, Lydia To the sisters off'<PB, MD., L~T. Best wishes for a great rush. - the sisters of ~r DF- Thanks for listening and all your help with my cunent crisis, I hope you know who realizes how good he has it. I love you! - DS D - Thanks for your honesty and sincetity. I'm looking fmward to our next pool game. Love~D JT, LB, DF -We really should have another foursome. soon be- cause it was so much fun. It was certainly an interesting time. -DS LS & DW- I am C for Y! Love, the roommates from above Roomie- Like I said, the only way to win is to give give him a \coUar.\ Let him try and explain that one. .,the psychotic one To the brothers of Sigma Chi: Thanks for helping us deck the halls! We can't wait to do it next year! -The Sisters of ftl>B To all of those who shared the great times with us this fall~ Thanks for joining us, we can't wait to do it again. -The Sisters ofni>B . To the Brothers of Psi U: Titanks for asking us for cocktails. . We can't wait! -The Sisters of fc:flB To Wulfi1,1g: I have your grandmother's tooth- brush. If you want .it back, wait for details. Anyone ·Care for an apple pie. OHHH!! JH- I'm looking forward to WWlii. We ·definately need to \bond\ again. -DS SAS - Thanks so much for your handiwork. Give a man a twee- zer and he can work wonders. -watch less SWF is seeking a SM who will satify her every need. He must have working tractor, high body temperature and strong hands are a must! If you can handle it, meet me infront ofF ox tonight and dis- cover all of the possibilities. Woman seeks wrestling partner. Fast Ieamer! To the psychotic leaders of the Concordy - You know that we will all leave here in straightjack- ets instead of caps and gowns. Love, the newe~t member of the crazy club Hyper SWF seeks a man who will be able to tame her. He must have a great imagination. Please give me a call. D & H - I'm sony to have to tell you this, but I QUIT!'!! -Sed Are you ready for the tl1rill of a lifetime? Do you want to meet all smts of new and very interest- ing people? Well if so, come to CC 303 on Tuesday nights a11d join the fun Quote of the week c/o DL: \I don't know how, but she always seems to get me in a headlock.\ Concordy people- I am broken! Contact must be made thru Four Winds.- Sed Classifieds - -~. SPRING BREAK - Nassau/ Paradise Island, Cancun and Ja- maica from $299. Air, Hotel, Transfers, Parties and More! Or., ganize small group - eam FREE ttip plus commissions! Call 1- 800-822-0321 USE THE CLASSIFIEDS--- THEY REALLY WORK 'l11e ( 'oncordiensis is in need of advertising staff to help with the Bicentenllial issue as well as our weekly publication. Anyone who is interested should contact Dave. Heather or Lisaatx6155 for more infounation. We also have weekly staff meetings,- which are open to all :'members of the col- lege coinmmtity. Anyoi1e who is interested in writ- ing articl'es for the Bicentennial Isstfe should contact Dave or Heat.her as soon as possible at x6l55 .· .There are many topics that still need to be written about. Any help would be appreciated. Use the pei·s-onals. they really work. Many wonderful Union nilationships have begun with 17u! Concordiem·is personals. Re- cently two Unioi1 alumni manied after meeting through these very personal ads. So. send your ads in the Box 2577 or drop them off atCC303. As you can tell by the above list of personals and classifieds. we are in need of help with the per- sonals/classifieds page. If you have a lot of friends or you need a lot of friends this would be a good opportunity for you. Please. please, please, please, please, please help us. We've fallen and we can't get up. I'm bawlin' for this! Oh, My GOD! In search of someone with tissue. Kleenex preferably. Did you meet some great guy this week- end, but you 're a little afraid to call him and tell him you had a wonder- ful time? Did you spill beer on the woman ofyour dreams at a frater- nity party on Satur- day? Haveyou been meaning to thank your room-· mates for putting up with the pile of clothes you leave on the common room floor? Send them all personals. Send them to Box 2577 or bring them up to CC303.

u/ a- :I, r- :E 1- Jf 1e .If 10 e. :.e ·e ·e 1- t- ll lf lt :s t. y 11 :- d y s l it e ·- il :1 :1 Campus Calendar Jan. 12-18 Thursday, 01/12/95 8:00a- 4:30p Leaming Skills, CC 302 9:00a Dean Of StudentsStaffMeeting, CC 205 11:00a-2:00p Social Committee, CCATRfUMTABLE l2:00p Spanish Language Table, CC 204 l2:30p Germa11 Language Table, CC 203 12:30p- 1 :30p Phi Beta Kappa Seminar, HH OLD CHAPEL 12:30p History Department Meeting, CC 205 l:OOp So-ciology Department Meeting, CC 204 4:30p Tenns Abroad, HUMANITIES 116 4:30p Ballroom Dancing Club, HH OLD CHAPEL 7:00p Rush Infonnational Meeting for all 7:00p Protestant Worship, llli OLD CHAPEL 7:00p Delta Psi Delta Meeting, CC 302 Monday, 01/16/95 8:00a- 4:30p Leaming Skills, CC302 11:30a French Language Table, CC204 12:15p. PoliticalSciericeDepartment, CC205 2;00p AOPProgram, CCAUDITORIUM 3:00p Solicitor's Meetitig, CC 203 5:00p Meditation Group, CC 302 5:30p Rushees Meeting with Counsellor, HU 014,019, 115, and 116 9:00p Social Committee Meeting, CC 409 Tuesday, 01/17/95 8:00a- 4:30p ll:OOa 11:30a 12:00p l2:00p 12:00p. 4:30p 4:30p 5:30p 5:30p 7:00p 7:00p 7:00p 7:30p ' Leaming Skills, CC 302 Residence Life Meeting, CC 205 Founders Day Committee Meeting, CC 204 Community & Values Discussion Group, CC MOBIL ( 406) Residence LifeStaffMeeting, CC 205 Finance Office Meeting, CC 203 R,esunie Crisis Cet~ter, CC204 .Terms Abroad Meeting, HU 112,HU 114, and HU 116 DeltaPsi Delta Meeting, CC 203 RusheesMeetingwithCounsellor, HU 014, HU I 15, and HU 1 i6 Intervarsity Cluistian Fellowship Bible Study, CC 409 Union College Orchestra Rehearsal,Memorial Chapel Coq-unittee on Political and Social Theory, HH OLD CHAPEL 111~ Calculus Center, BAILEY 203 CAMPUS EVENTS • '' i ••• Thursday, 01/12/95 9:00a- 5: lOp Senior Pichtres, CC 4 I 0 11 :30a General Faculty Meeting, CC AUDITORIUM 12:00p Peer Facilitators \Plate Full of Questions\ CC 409 1 :30p Speaker: :'David Meisel\ Physics Coloquium, SCIENCE & ENG. NW 114 8:00p Speaker: Caroline Whitbeck, PhD, Phi Beta Kappa Lecture, CC AUDITORIUM Saturday, 01/14/95 7:00p Mortal Combat Video Grune, CC STRAUSS(305), CCMOBll.,(406) Sunday, 01!15/95 12:00p -7:00p NFL Playoffs, CHET'S Monday, 01/16/95 lO:OOa- 2:00p Personal Insurance Infonnation, CC 20~ Tuesday, Ol/17/95 12:00p Schaffer Library Book Sale, SCHAFFER LIBRARYISTFLOOR 5:00p Speaker: Ken Silver, Environmental Studies Program, HU 019 Wednesday, 01/18/95 · 3:00p 5:00p IntemetClass, STEINMETZ 108 Thursday, 01/19/95 12:00p \Plate Full of Questions\ Peer Facilitators, CC 409 1 :30p Physics Colloquium, SCIENCE & ENG. NW 114 Mark your Calendar for: 02/25/95 Founder's Day/Union's 200th For Further Information Regarding Campus Events, Contact the Office of Special Events at 388-6098. Wednesday, 01/18/95 8:00a- 4:30p Learning Skills, CC 302 l0:45a Career Development, CC 205 12:00p Admissions Office Meeting, HH MILANO LOUNGE 2:00p ST?P Tutoring, BAILEY 203 4:30p Tenns Abroad Meeting, HU 112, HU 114, HU 116, and HU 117 5:30p Rushees Meeting with Counsellor, HU 014,HU 0 I 9, HU 115 and HUll6 Girl Scout Meeting, CC 409 AO.P. Tutoring, SS I 03, SS I 04, and SS 110 Gennan Film Series, CC MOBIL( 406) 6:00p 6:00p 7:00p 7:30p 7:00p 7:00p 7:30p 7:30p 8:00p 9:15p 9:30p TI1e Calculus Center, BAILEY 203 Freshmen, BU204 (ALPS) National Society of Black Engineers, CC204 Big Brothers/Big Sisters,CC 409 Mountebanks Meeting, CC 302 TI1e Calculus Center, Bailey 203 Phi Beta Kappa Lecture, Caroline Whitbeck, Phd, CC Aud Phi Beta Kappa, UPPER CLASS DINING HALL Alpha Phi Alpha Meeting, CC 409 Friday, 01/13/95 I' 1 :OOa Social Committee, TABLE 7- CC A TRJUM 3 :OOp Math 007 Seminar, BAILEY 20 I 4:00p Phi Beta Kappa Speaker, Tea with Sh1dents,HH MILANO LOUNGE 5:00p The Idol Meeting, CC 41 0 7:00p Philomathean Society, HH MILANO LOUNGE 9:00p \Coffeehouse\, RA THSKELLAR Saturday, 01/14/95 2:00p \TI1eater Games\ Rehearsal, HH OLD CHAPEL 4:00p Delta Psi Delta, HHDINING ROOM Sunday, 01/15/95 . 5:30p :Jtushees Meeting with Counsellor, HU 014,019, 115, and 116 6:00p Ballroom Oancing Club, HH OLD CHAPEL 6:30p Phi Iota Alpha, CC 409 ·r, 11 SPORTS Friday, 01/13/95 7:30p Union Hockey vs. RPI, ACHILLES RINK ·Saturday, Ol/14/95 1 :OOp Men's & Women's Indoor Track vs. Hamilton, FIELDHOUSE 2:00p Men's & Women's Swimming, Union vs. Hartwick, GYM POOL Wednesday, 01/18/95 ·tr· ' . ' 4:00p Men's & Women's Swimming, Union vs. Rensselaer, GYM POOL UNION COLLEGE Career Development Center CDC Updates ... Congratulations and best wishes to Denise Godin, Career Counse- lor, who is leaving January 13 to accept a position as Assistant Director at Bryant College, RI. ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• Sophomore Summer Internship- Paid for two consecutive sum- mers. Open to all majors for Employee Compensation and Ben- efits positions. Attend IFEB Infonnation Meeting, 2/1195 @ 7pm. Application deadline to the CDC February 10. Graduating Students: Reminder ... Teach for America Application must be sent directly to Teach for America by January 15 to obtain an interview on campus, February 16. If you are interested in interviewing with the company represen- tatives winter tenn, Resume Deadline is January 20 by 5pm. Newhouse Graduate Fellowship/Internship in Newspaper Jour- nalism for minorities. This highly competitive 28-month program supported by the Newhouse Foundation provides two generous fellowships/apprenticeships each year to minority students who have majored in subjects other than journalism as undergradu- ates. More infonnation is available.

January 12, 1995, page 18 .T/, · ............. :.' ;;.··.,.· •··•·· .... . ... 11e .. by Greg Kalish Associate Sports Editor If there is one thing that has somewhat separated hockey fans from tl1ose fans of other major sports, it is the intensity with which hockey fans love their sport. A true, avid hockey follower will often speak of the sport as being the only sport, the greate$t sport. I am one of those fans. Despite always being viewed as the '\fourth sport\ in this countty, hockey has always been my number one sport, far and away. Now it appears that the powers-that~be in the world of hockey are going to min that specialness and the unique· ness hockey holds in the heru1s of so many of its fans. A labor dispute has put the season on hold, a season that was supposed to begin on October I , a season that, at last glance, does not look like it will take place at all. Perhaps what is more amazing then the fact that there wiH, in all likelihood, be no NHL hockey in 1994-95, is the timing with which this is all taking place. The labor dispute comes on the heels of one of the most successful seasons in the history of the league. A sea~, son that staged one of the most exciting playoffs in any sport in recent history, a season that resulted in expanded national televi- sion coverage, and a season that attracted the attention of fans and media personnel who. in years past, never batted an eye in the direction of the NHL. Unlike the on-going saga that is the baseball strike, it is hard not to side with the players in this dispute. TI1ey have made conces~ sions in free agency, arbitration, and rookie salary caps. They have given back to the owners benefits they fought for ten to fifteen years ago. They even offered to play the entire season underthe previous contract with no threat of a strike. It is obvious tl)y.t · ·. ·• want to play. Many foreign pla;yers haverettlmediQ th~irhq. lands to play with their national tea~n~jtist spti}'~tt!!~x·.:. > ,, :. the spo11 they love. The owneJ~s.have thusfarr~)~cj~9.a players' offers. They want a salary cap, or '311otheHdfiii (:}.r. , ... cap caned a payrofr taX. At1(f as givin~)iii9. ~e~~ple }.tl the ph1yefs have been. they have vowed that tfiti)/'wH4'\1e'Vet'taKe tl1e ~~.e as long as any sott of cap or payroll resh1ction i~ i11 ·. · · · So it appears that the ECAC is the only o·; n· · ioclkev be seeing anytime so01l:. And hoW .~·: ~·, · riti,JI).£(c~\tt ing the season with bptimisni ., · ·• · · ·. men have eante(f jhs\t · on~ ttN:;iUk~:;:;;\.Jiilk'f' :; have not won an l.;>....,.~}.., November II, a Divisioit UH-6-atn.·.··t Wr;;.,;\h'd mit1orleague affiliates from wlifcliiaedfltih:·mlt order to improve the teatn in eolleg:elio'Cl<ev · tive slde.ltowever, i'r'w~s ·. . men tun1erl their se~nroli a~QUtH:l.after on an streak that eamedth~ a olavbJFfs'bof·.HOrll~f:it:ll' · right for an about~fa¢e:' '' , .,,,,,.,.;,\\'·\''\''''t.'··j''\'z···\''\\·\\'','\i\:''#·:,,.,,, 4 ,A 1 ,SPORTS It's Rock Bottom For Skaters continued from page 20 portunities into goals. It appeared that Union had the game's first goal three minutes into the first period when a Union shot made a large clank on the post and ap- peared to have crossed the goal line on the way down. The goal judge signaled a goal, but the ref- eree overruled, and Union's scor- ing problems continued. After two periods the Dutch- men were outshooting the Red Raiders 28-18, but Colgate was the only team on the scoreboard, leading the Dutchmen 1-0. The third period did not bode well for the Dutchmen, as they fell behind 2-0, before Cory Holbrough scored Union's only goal of the evening. Holbrough 's last minute goal would not be enough for the Dutchmen, as the Red Raiders defense held on for a 2-1 victory. Union out shot Colgate 40-28, and Koenig made 26 saves, many from point blank range. The Dutchmen offense is not the only thing which has been missing of late. Senior goalie Mike Gallant has not seen any Senior Cory Holhrouglz .(plroto hy Bill Rice/The Concordiensis) action since Union's 4-3 loss to the Engineers of RPI on Decem- ber 3. In the five games since, the goaltending responsibilities have been split between senior Luigi Villa and freshman Trevor Koenig. This weekend the Dutch- men play host to the Engineers of RPI, a team Union has yet to beat during the regular season. Midway through the 1994- 1995 campaign, Union is only one defeat from equaling their loss total of9 from last season. If the season ended this week, Union would be one of only two teams in the ECAC to miss the conference playoffs. The Dutch- men were picked to finish in the top-half of the ECAC, and if they have any hopes of making a move in the conference, they will need a strong perfonnance this week- end against RPI before they be- gin a road trip. Chet's January 15 NFL Playoffs 12 pm -7 pm Free Wings & Pizza Bar Open January 29 Super Bowl 6 pm'- 9 pm Free Wings & Pizza Bar Open Interested in helping with the Founders Day issue of The Concordiensis? *We need writers * We need fundraisers * We need help with layout Please come to our weekly meeting at 7:00 pm TODAY in CC 303. Help your college celebrate its 200th The Concordiensis - Taking Our Place in History

SPORTS January 12, 1995, page 19 Williams Hands Swimming Teams First Losses of the Season by Julie Ivanyi ConcordienSis Staff \fhe Swim Team begail 1995 with a strong meet against Will- iams. a team who captllred a third place finish at the National Cham- pionships last winter. Williams has always been a tough competi- tor for Union. although this year the Otttchmen showed the oppo- sitionthe talent that has lead them totheir successful season tlms far. 11tis year. with a different outlook on the meet and the help of the determinati.on of both teams. Union did not let the meet go eas- ily. opponent trail'ing 4 seconds be- hind. Mo O'Donnell is on her way to qualifying for the National Championships. On Saturday, she pl<Jced a fast second to Will- iams in the 1 00 Fly. Sarah Spaulding continued her strong hold on the backstroke events, placing third in both the 100 and the 200·. Jonatha Meade and Eri Hayashi claimed both the 100 and 50 Free, c~pturing 2nd and 3rd in both events. l11e divers, Nicole RtJhin. Heather Kanser. and Amy · Lamp·here, brought .in many points for the Dutchwomen, plac- ing lst. 3rd, and4th .. respectively. in the three meter event. Al- thOitgh the women swam welL they were eutscored by the WiH~ iams teamwhosedepthhas made them such a solid nationally ranked team. The Womenbegan the meet off \VeiL with many swim:111ers com., peting in back to back events. One such s.wimn1er i·s teCe Buchanan. plac.ing in both the I 000 and 200 Freestyle events. Later on. she also placed .jn the 500 Free. Jenn TeneH. after suf- fering a severe back injury this summer. finished third in the 100 Breastroke. and also completed the 200 Brcastroke with a po\ver- ful finish. Melissa Pomel'leau. miother injured swimmer. won the 100 Breastroke .. her closest The Men swam a very strong and competitive meet. l11ey carrie the closest to beating Williams in all the years of competition be- tweet1 the .two teams. The meet began with the Union men being touched out by 4 hundredths of a second for a first place finish in the Medley Relay. This relay consisted of Mike Humphreys, Mark Anderson. Scon Bowden U11ion College diver competes duri11g Ullioll 's match witlr Williams (plloto by Joslt Haines!TC) and Pete Spaulding. l11e Dutch- men continued to pursue their op- position by powerful 1st and 4th Women's Basketball Season Begins by Lee Schachter Concorrliellsis Staff nior guard Marcie Heffeman fol- lowed with 12 points on 4 for 6 shooting from the three point line. The Union '\'omen's basketball Senior Melissa· Maguire had 7 team began their season right be- points, senior co-captain Deb fore wi~ter break and have ai- ., ·Montano had 6 points, sopho- ready played 11 games. It has more Tonya Capparello had 8 been a very eventful season so far. points, 4 steals. and 2 blocks, While they stm1ed 9ffwith just a sophomore Amy Hitz· had 6 2-7 record going into this past points, soph.omore Amy weekend. there are many bright Dougherty had2 points. freshman spots, and the rest of the season Lisa Schofield had 5, and fresh- looks promising. especially after man Sara Gower had 2 points. this past weekend. Freshmen Rachel Morgan and Jen The team was 2-5 in the divi- Lelas contiibttted as well. sion durittg this first pmt of the In the game on Sunday against season with one of those losses Smith, Union started off strong by coming in ovettime, when senior pulling ahead 7-2. However, and co-captain guard Andrea Pagnezzi scored her lOOOth point. Smith came back to tie up the game at halftime, and. the game was still tied up at the end of regu- lation. After two overtimes, Union was unable to ptdl offtheir second victory of the weekend, and lost by a final score of 72- 68. Marcie Heffernan led the way with 20 points on five three point- ers, and Pagnozzi and Hitz each had 14. Hitz also had 15 re- bounds. The Dutchwomen try to con- , tinue their upward march as they travel to Colby and Bates this weekend. So make a .road trip and come on out and support the team. A note from Achilles Rink finishes in the 1000 Free by Kevin Makarowski and Than Stuntz. This perseverance continued in the 200 Free with Mike Darbyshire and Cluis Riley claim- ing 2nd and 3rd. Mike Humphreys qualified for the B cuts for Nationals in the 1 00 Backstroke. Adding to this strong finish in the backstroke was Eric Menard and Jeff Fawcett, who brought in mor-e points for the Dutchmen. Mark Anderson, Matt Woodrow, and Scott Bowden swept the 1 00 Breast by finishing 2nd, 3rd and 4th. After the first round of diving the Union men were only 5 points behind Will- iams. Brian Field and Matt Baumgartner seq1red I stand 2nd places in both the 1 and 3 meter diving. The Dutchmen held on to this score by taking 2nd, 3rd and 4th finishes in the 100 Free. The I 00 Fly, swum by Eric Majeron, Mike Macamber, and Eric Smith also brought in points which lead to the final score. Steve Potenza and Geoff Wolfe brought in last minute points in the final event of the 400 Free Relay. John Fitzgera·ld, Matt Glogowski and Adam Horst all captured points in the distance events for Union which lead them to a final score of 138 to I 56, in favor of Williams. The Union Dutchmen continue their season this week, when they travel to Geneva, New York, to Hobart William Smith on Wednesday. With the strength that has been displayed by both the men's and the women's' teams, they are confident they will bring home victory. Satur- day, the Dutchmen meet one of their longtime rivals, Hartwick, at home at 2 pm. Continuing on their road to successful seasons, both teams will be in full force as they hope to capture both wins. becmningjust the seC(>Ild woman in Union women's basketball his- tory to do so. She also leads the team in both scoring and assists. Sophomore forward Amy Hitz leads the team in rebounds with 11.0 per game. Notice to the Campus Community This past weekend, the team went up against a powerful 4-1 PI attsburgh team on Saturday, and then against 4-5 Smith on Sunday. The game against Plattsburgh began with a cer- emony honoring Pagnozzi for scoring her I OOOth point. How- ever, the Dutchwomen statied out slowly by falling behind by early scores of7-2 and 9-4. Then they scored the next 9 points to go up by a score of 13-9. They never looked back. They continued to increase their lead until they com- piled a halftime edge of 46-27. Their biggest lead was by 26 points when they led 63-37 mid- way through the second half, and then they were finally content with a 70-62 victory. It was a to- tal team effort. Pagnozzi led the way with 22 points, including 8 for 1 0 free throw shooting. Se- We would like to remind you that everyone's enjoyment of the game depend~ on the environment in which safety and sportsmanship prevail. Please note the following rules: 1. No one may bring alcoholic beverages into the- rink. 2. No one may throw anything on to the ice surface at any time. Anyone observed violating these rules will be escorted from the rink and may be subject to charges with the Schenectady Police Department or Union College. The College reserves the right to look into packages and to visually inspect patrons' garments. -

January 12, 1995 PAGE20 eaten at t Men's Basketball Has Won 7 of 9 Despite a Heartbreaking Loss to Gettysburg . . - - ' ... ~ - . by Jiio'n Starr Sports Editor Union's men's basketball team is the biggest sports story of the tenn thus far. A team that usu- ally takes a back seat to the school's only division one sport, has finally pushed itself into the limelight. The skating Dutchmen have been a major disappoint- ment thus far this season, track has yet to begin its races, and swimming is well ... swimming. Meanwhile, men's hoop has put together an impressive early sea- son run that was tan1ished this p.tst \\ cckcnd in a heartbreaking loss to (icttysbur~. uzzer The Dull:iuncn play~.:d gracious hosts tu UtLab~.:thtu\\11, Middlebury. and Gettysburg as they tipped off the eleventh an- nual Uuiun lnvJtatwnal Ba~ket­ ball Toumament this past Satur- day. The Dutchmen got past Elizabethtown in first round ac- tion to advance to the rubber match. They then watched as Gettysburg did the same, dispos- ing of Middlebury in the first round. This set up a Union vs. Gettysburg final which tumed out to be one of the best finishes of the Union College sports season. Sam Pou/is setsa pick for Dave Dagostino during Union's invitational tournament. (photo by Scott Druckemiller!Tile Collcordiensis) After an evenly contested four quarters, the game came down to a last gasp for Gettysburg. With ac exactly one tick left on the clock, Gettysburg was faced with the seemingly impossibility of trav- eling the full length of the court dnd putting a prayer in the hole for the win. They managed move the ball the full length of the court while allowing no time to expire as they heaved an inbound pass that deflected out of bounds off a Union player. So Gettysburg had the ball under their own hoop, down by two, still with one sec- ond to go. The inbound went cleanly to a Gettysburg player behind the tree-point line who in the managed to get off an awkw.ard looking three-pointer. The prayer was answered as the ball fell through the back of the net break- ing the collective heart of every- one involved in Union Basketball. The Dutchmen will not be, bro- ken by a loss like this. They have been down before and come back. This is a team that reeled off six in a row after starting the season with two losses. Instead of watch- ing hockey lose on weekends, come watch Dutch~nen hoops continue their excitin'g season. ' asement! Listless Union loses two at home; winless str·eak at eight by Dagan La Corte Hockey Correspolldent As the new year begins, the Skating Dutchmen are in the midst of a plague-like losing streak. In their past eight games, the Dutchmen have posted a record of0-7-1, their only point coming in a 2-2 tie against the Tigers of Princeton. After drop- ping two games .to the Bulldogs of Minnesota Duluth over Christ- mas break, the Dutchmen were hoping to gain some t,>rOund in the E.C.A.C., facing off against Cornell and Colgate. Last season the Dutchmen swept Comell, and split against Colgate, the dramatic 7-6 victory coming in the final weekend of the season at Achilles Rink. If the Dutchmen intend to be any sort offeree in the E.C.A.C., these are the types of teams they have to consistently beat. However, that was not the case, as the Dutch- men dropped both games this weekend, scoring only two goals in the process. Union's offense has bee11 suf- fering recently, averaging only 2 goals in their past five games. On Friday night, Comell took a 1-0 lead into the second period, be- fore Andrew Will, assisted by Charlie Moxham and Chris Albert, tied the score. Things seemed to be going well for the Dutchmen until late in the period. The Big Red dealt a severe blow to the Dutchmen's moral, taking a 2-1 lead with only 35 seconds remaining in the second period. Comell added two more goals in the third period with the foutih being an empty-net score. Union failed to capitalize on early opportunities and trailed 2- I after two periods despite outshooting Cornelio 28-12. Union had many opportunities, but the Big Red defense. kept the pttck off the sticks ef Union's scorers. Senior Goalie Luigi Villa allowed just three goals in the loss. The loss was Union's first home loss ofthe season, and their first home defeat it1 n<;:arfy a year. . Coach. Bruce Delventhal and the rest of the Dutchmen were hoping that things would fare bet- ter on Saturday night. Delye11thal gave the call to fn~:shman goaltender Trevor Koenig, and the rookie may have tumed in his best Division I outing. Unfortunately fat· the Dutch- men , the Union offense remained dormant as the Red Raiders of Colgate completed a weekend sweep in their visit to the Capital District. TI1e Dutchmen came out skating well in the first period, but as has been the case recently, they were unable to convert any op- continued 011 page 18

i J: ' ' ' ·. SCOPES - Where does your m~ney go?·.·. . . . ' VolumeCXXIV,Number X ' s onror· trusts The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenectady, New York January 19, 1995 • OlD our Union President Roger Bull at Thursday's Press Conference. Hull announced Union's plans to sue Scllellectady, (Laurel Ruma/TC) Corporation Council, Tom Oliver, is flanked by reporters Carl Strock (left) and Mark Hammond (rigltt) during Wed11esda.v's meeting in City Hall Not/1i11g was resolved. (photo by Deborall Proper/TC) Union Sues Schenec~ady Over Use of G. E. Plot Properties by Heather Manley AssoCiate News Editor Board of Appeals. The College will argue in courtthatthis is both discriminatory and unconstitu- tional. · Hull said that after meeting with the City Council on seven different occasions since 1991, the College proposed a number of compromises. Among the compromises was an offer to maintain the exterior of the cur- rent homes with the exception of handicapped access that would be required by law. The College also offered to sell all other col- lege owned properties in the GE Plot except those'on Lenox Road and not to acquire any new prop- erties for a period of time to be detennined by mutual consent. Hull also wrote each member of the City Council in an effort to reach an agreement. According to Hull, the City Coupcil re- sponded that the only compromise was for the college to sell all of its property and get out of the neighborhood. \From our per- Continued on page 4 Oneoftlle Union-owned houses ill tile G. E. Realty Plot (File Plwtot) Last Thursday. Union College president Roger Hull announced that the College is suing the city of Schenectady. After a four year struggle with the City Council over the use ofthe GE Realty Plot, the College filed suit with the Schenectady County Supreme Court. Union is asking the court to declare unconstitutional a City Council zoning ordinance that prevents the College from using its own property for educational purposes, said Hull at the press conference that afternoon. Prior to 1984, explained Hull, Union had the right to use its properties for educational pur• poses. However, in 1984, Schenectady instituted a zoning ordinance that restricts buildings in the GE Realty Plot only to be used as single-family residences. As a result, Union is unable to use its Lenox Road Properties, cost- ing the college approximately $500,000 a year in lost revenue because it cannot house additional students on campus. Hull ex• plained that as a property-owner, Union College does not have the right to appear before the Zonin~ Final Effort to Resolve Controversy Falls Short by David Levine co-Editor-in-c/lief In a final attempt to resolve the conflict between residents of Schenectady and Union College concerning the use of college- owned houses in the G.E. Plot, Councilman James Conroy called an emergency meeting in City Hall last Wednesday night. Conroy called the meeting after being infonned that the College intended to file suit against Schenectady's zoning ordinance that is preventing Union from converting several of their Lenox Road homes into administrative offices. \I asked the Col1ege if they would alJow us to present tonight their positiot1 and the neighborhood's position so that we can get an idea from all parties about what they expect the City Council to do,\ said Conroy. Union's attorney, Charles J. Assini (class of'78), presented the college's perspective in reiterating that \the zoning laws are unconstitutional and unlawful.\ The City Council has refused to allow Union to .file for a special use permit for the G.E. Plot properties, which, under law. can only be used for single-family residence. \I am extremely doubtful that I will convince the audience that the ordinance is unconstitutional and this committee cannot detennine whether it is constitutional,\ Assini explained. \Seven months ago the President asked the Council to decide whether the College has the right to apply for a zoning penn it, a right that the College had prior to the amendment of the zo.ning laws in 1984. The College is not asking the Council to rewrite the Jaws. The College is not asking to be exempt from the laws, we are merely asking the Council to allow the Zoning Board of Appeals to make the decision. The City Council has no right to make the decision because it is not a legislative body.\ Assini claims that Union has been subjected to a different standard with regards to the use Contil;ued on page 4

January 19,1995, page 2 Any events that clubs or individuals who like advertised in the campus info box should be submitted to Box 2577, and marked as campus info. The service is free to all members of the college community. Submissions should be received no later than 4PM on the Monday before publication. NEWS· UNION COLLEGE CAMPUS·SAFETY DEPARTMENT DATE/TIME LOCATION INCI:DENT TUESDAY, JANUARY 10, 1995: 1:07AM 10:30 AM 12:40 PM 8:30PM 11:14 PM Davidson SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Odor of marijuana reported. Somce unconfirmed. Hickok House area TRESPASS: Visitor acting suspiciously. Identified and warned off campus. Potter House AGGRAVATED HARASSMENT: Sexually oriented phone calls Subject identified Conduct Charges filed. Raymond South VANDALISM: Entry door damaged/security hazard created. Edwards Lot THEFT: Two wallets stolen from student's locked vehicle. No evidence of forced entry. WEDNESDAY, JANUARY .11, 1995: 12:00 AM Schaffer Library FIRE ALARM: Believed caused by power surge. · THURSDAY. JANUARY12. 1995: 1:25AM 6:50AM 9:22PM Psi Upsilon DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Alleged phy,sical altercation between guests. No injury/damage reported. South College VANDALISM: Food smeared on walls and rug. Hole made in wall. Edwards House SECURITY HAZARD: Exteriors doors will not self-close. Urgent work order filed. FRIDAY, JANUARY 13, 1995: 7:20 AM Fraternity SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Keg on tap. Occurred 1/12/95. THEFT: Computer keyboard stolen from computer room. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized. Persistent unregistered violations. 10:28 AM 10:54 A.M 11:06 AM 6:00PM 7:55PM 8:15PM 9:10PM 10:17 PM Steinmetz Fieldhouse Lot College Center Hale House Achilles Rink Achilles Rink SAFETY HAZARD: Exit door dpes not fully open. Work order filed. Warning signs posted. FIRE ALARM: Caused by cooking. RECKLESS ENDANGERMENT: Objects thrown during hockey game. Suspects ejected from Rink. Conduct charges ' filed. HARASSMENT/DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Altercation· between visitors. No injury/damage. Memorial Chapel SECURITY HAZARD: Construction storage .not secured. ·No evident dama~e-resecured. Off Campus THEFT: Corner of Avon and Lenox .. Visitor's car forced entry. Items stolen. SPD notified. Victim's assisted. Area searched. SATURDAY. JANUARY 14. 1995: I: I 0 AM Hale House SAFETY HAZARD: Basement stairway blocked. FIRE ALARM: Fire trouble alert. Cause undetermined. I :10 AM 4:27AM 6:28AM 3:30PM Hale House Work order filed. South College area PROPERTY DAMAGE: Damaged vacuum and window screens found on sidewalk outside of South College. Memorial Chapel VANDALISM: Handicapped ramp handrail damaged. Alumni Gym Lot PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized. Persistent unregistered vehicle. SUNDAY, JANUARY 15, 1995: 1:21AM Fox/Davidson area TRESPASS: Visitor soliciting for cash donations. Identified 2:04AM 3:10AM 3:39AM 4:05AM 10:28 AM 1:18AM 4:00PM Sigma Phi Davidson Edwards House Raymond North and warned off campus. FIRE ALARM: Fire trouble alert. Cause undetermined. Possible power glitch. Work order filed. VANDALISM: Window broken. VANDALISM: Windows broken. VANDALISM: Windows broken. Yellow Bam area TRESPASS: Visitor acting suspiciously. Identified and warned off campus. West College VANDALISM: Ceiling tiles damaged 2nd floor south stairwell. Phi Delta Theta lot SAFETY HAZARD: Derelict car being smashed apart. MONDAY. JANUARY 16, 1995: 3:40PM Sigma Phi 10:00 AM Raymond/Potter 11:45 AM Psi Upsilon 11:46 AM Humanities 10:57 PM Fox House 10:57 PM Fox House II :00 PM Davidson 11:~0 PM Fox House HARASSMENT: Physical confrontation between students. Occurred 1/15/95. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Lawn damaged. Caused by vehicle driving across wet sod. VANDALISM: Student's room door damaged. LOST/FOUND: Bicycle found. Owner located. FrRE ALARM: Fire trouble alert. Caused by unauthorized tampering with room smoke detector. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Life Safety Violation Notice filed for tampering with room smoke detector. THEFT: Chair stolen from entry foyer. VANDALISM: Wall pack flood light damaged.

NEWS January 19, 1995, page 3 Two Gunned Down at Popular Bar Union College Employee Recovers From Four Gunshot Wounds; One Local Dies by Caroline J. Paine News Editor \If you're looking for sense out of this - stop,\ said District At- tomey and Union graduate, Rob- et1 M. Camey about last Friday's early morning shootings at Kelly's Pub located on Hattie Street in Schenectady. Camey, Assistant Schenectady Police ChiefPatriek T. Smith and several investigators held a press conference last Monday regard- ing the slaying of Sche11ectady local, Vito A. Masi and the wounding of Union employee, Jill Schoonmaker, of the Public Re- lations office. The shooting occulTed at 2: l 0 last Friday moming. Earlier that uwming four Schenectady locals had been drinking and playing pool Vv hen an argument broke out between the four and other bar patrons. The four Schenectady men left Kelly's vowing to retum and \'get\ the other bar patrons, police S<lld. They wa1ted outside the bar in a Chevrolet Chevette until 'last call.' According to po- lice, when Masi and Schoonmaker left Kelly's, one of the four stepped out from behind the car and fired about 18 shots from a MAC-90 assault rifle. Masi was hit in the back ·of the neck and died instantly. Schoonmaker was hit four times in the anns and legs. She was taken to Ellis Hospital soon after the tragic event. of Friday morning's shooting at Kelly's, a local pub. (photo by Josll W. Haines/Tile Co11cordiensis) The assailants are identified as 20-year-old Christopher Cashier, Andrew Yarter, 18 and John Kravetz 19. The fourth man's name was not disclosed by police. The three identified youths were anested early in the moming on Monday. Cashier has been iden- tified as the gunman, and is charged with murder and at- tempted murder. Yarter, Cashier's roommate, was the driver ofthe getaway vehicle. He is charged with first-degree hin- dering prosecution. Kravetz was on parole for a previous robbery, and he is charged with parole vio- lations. Masi was laid to rest on Tues- , day, the same day Schoonmaker was released from the hospital. Charles Casey, who works with Schoonmaker in Public Relations, Psychology Department Will Move to Bailey Hall by Adrian MacLean Concordie11sis Staff Union has received a $110,820 grant from the National Science Foundation's Academic Research ll)frastructure Program for the relocation of the Psychology de- partmetlt to the third floor of Bailey Hall next fall. Currently the department re- sides in the 177 year old build- ing, Nmih Colonnade. Although the psychology depat1ment has enjoyed the intimacy and casual environment of the building, it is not equipped for the advanced research needs of the department. Problems in the building in- clude: a crumbling roof and waiL uneven and cracked flooring that is beyond repair, an unreliable heating system that is either above 85 degrees or below 60, and an electrical system unable to house the high tech air conditioning sys- tem. Suzanne Benack, associate pro- fessor and chair of the psychol- ogy department, feels that the overheated classrooms, rain drops falling frmn the ceiling and bang- ing pipes make the building an inadequate teaching facility. The building has provided the psy- chology department with a unique atmosphere that has still gradu- ated roughly 65 majors a year. \What we have really loved about this building is the friendly and informal feeling,\ Benack said. In the 1940's, when the depart- ment was first housed in North would have to include handicap accessibility, the narrow hallways would have to be expanded and countless amounts of details would have to be changed to meet the regulations. Currently there are eight full Union's architect is beginning the plans for the move in the fall. There is no public information available conceming the relocation of the Graduate Studies Program that currently resides on the third floor of Bailey Hall. \Although the Psychology Department has enjoyed the casual environment of the building, it is not equipped for the advanced research needs of the department.\ Colonnade, the primary focus was on teaching and not research. Teaching is still a priority, but research has become an essential factor in the intellectual growth of the professors and students. Moving to Bailey Hall will open up an opportunity for intensive research and leaming. Currently there is little lab space for the faculty and students to research·. They mostly work out of classrooms that are unoc- cupied. Free space' is rare, so stu- dents generally work after classes, in the evening or during a lunch break. This causes one•term projects to become two or three- tenn projects. Renovating the building would be difficult because of the mod- em code regulations. The school time professors and four who work part time. The size of the department will not increase as a result of the change in facilities. Lab space is scarce in Colonnade, but the grant wiJI help renovate the space into five new laborato- ries; this is an upgrade from the one computer in a closet size area. The Academic Research pro- gram will not give funding to the expansion of research space. To solve this, the grant will go to- ward the renovations ofthe same amount of space in Bailey Hall, approximately 2,238 net square feet. Union is committed to match the grant and make up the difference in the renovating costs. \We will be able to get more research done faster,\ Benack said. \1l1e administration is working with them and other affected parts of the college for the best solu- tion,\ Benack said. Relocating near the math and other departments will eliminate complications with double major students. A Psychology/Biology major will now be able to work on animal research and other topics in conjunction with the Biology de- partment. An adequate child observation lab will be built so that studies can be done on campus in their own facilities. The lack of a waiting room and a single angle videotap- ing facility has significantly lim- ited the accuracy of obtained data. Bailey will provide the necessary rooms and multisided camera af- ter its renovations. · Concordiensis Meeting - Today 7pm .. CC 303 · ·· ·. says that, \Jill is doing well now; she is staying with relatives while she recovers. We are all glad she is doing so well.\ The rest of the campus shares his sentiment and sends their best wishes for her re- covery. . Sexism itt the weight room? The bookstore responds to last week's opinion. Editorial: Union and Schenectady Deserv·e ·Each Other. World News ............... 8 Sciejlce ........... H ............ 9· OPIED ................. 10-12. SCOPES··\-······ .. ~· 13 ... 16 F:eatnres ...... ~············ 17 A.rts ...................... ~-·· t . .g.;lij Livitt:g ......... _ .... ~ ............. *' ...... 21 Personals ..................... 22 Ca.l~ndat· .................... 23

January 19, 1995, page 4 NEWS Villella Endowment Expands Dance Program by Nalini Gupta Concordiensis Staff Thanks to a generous gift of $100,000 from Union alumnus, Charles Lothridge, Class of 1994, Union's dance program will be enhanced in an extraor- dinary collaboration with pro- fessional dance artist Edward Villella. The endowment will fund the Edward Villella Prize, a scholarship for a promising dance student and will also pro- vide strong, permanent support for the dance program. Dance students at Union will have the opportunity to com- pete for the prize which will be awarded by Villella through a juried competition. The cash award will enable the winning candidates to explore the study of dance in settings beyond campus and to participate in programs with companies like the Miami, Florida. City Ballet which was founded by Villella. As part of the endeavor, Villella and four accompanying danc- ers from the Miami City Ballet will visit Union on May 6, 1995 to give a pubiic lecture and per- fonnru1ce and to conduct a mas- ter class for interested students. The program will also feature appearances by dancers from the New York City Ballet and Tay- lor 2 Company. Lothridge's gift will boost Union's existing full-credit course which incorporates lec- tures and studio work along with modern and ballet technique classes conducted in the newly refurbished Performing Arts Stu- dio. \The Perfonning Arts Depart- ment is more than delighted with this welcome gift, which will en- able our students to strive for the best in dance. The generosity of Charles Lothridge will allow us to expand our master classes and guest artist programs,\ said Hilary Tann, chair of the department. Union's dance program will benefit from this joint venture with Villella by allowing students to work under a highly trained professional with considerable experience. Villella has per- fonnedforfom U.S. Presidents . and has danced at f,he Royal Danish Theater in Moscow. He won an Emmy award for his television production.of Harle- . quin and was producer/director of Dance in America, He also received an honorary doctor of human letters from Union in 1991. Under his direction; the Miami City Ballet has gained worldwide acclaim for perfor- mances at Bolshoio Theater in Moscow and Kirov Theater in St. Petersburg. Villella has also worked as soloist and principal dancer at the New York City Ballet where he performed in roles including Tarantella, Jew- els, Mid.,·ummer Night's Dream and Prodigal Son. \We are indeed honored to have our dance program con- nected with Edward Villella through the generosity of Charles Lotl1ridge,\ said Union President Roger HuH. \Both men share our vision to further strengthen the program.\ Union Takes Schenectady to Court Continued from page 1 spective that is not a compro- mise,\ said Hull ofthe city's re; action. On Wednesday of last week, the City Cauncil voted seven to zero in opposition to the College. Union announced the lawsuit the following day and, as a result, withdrew all previous offers .of compromise. \Only when it was clear that they (the City Council) were not going to do it (vote in favor of Union) did we rnove ahead,\ said Hnll. The new president o:f the Re- alty Plot Association, Cynthia Jupp, reponde~ to Hull's actions saying, \His reference to the meetings. is another smoke screen, in thy opinion, to the college's HI-conceived plan.\ ln similar cases involving .,.Cornell University and Sarah Lawrence Col'lege, New York State's Court of Appeals ruled that educational institutions are legally entitled to file for a spe- cial u:;;e permit in a residential neighborhoo~, as they irtherentl)' benefit the surrounding commu- nity, The College argues that these same rights apply to Union. Hull said that in moving ahead with the suit, he want to \preserve the fuh1re of this institution both financially and aesthetically.\ \I think it was inevitable,\ City Councihnan James J. Conroy Jr., chairman of the City Develop- ment and Planning Committee said of the lawsuit. \I thh1k what- ever we decided, the other party would have filed some kind .of suit: It's unforturiate, btit in today's world that's the way it goes.\ The properties in question are on Lenox Road opposite the col- lege campus. They include houses used by Union employees or guests mid vacant lots. (Some infonnation courtesy of the Schenectady Daily Gazelle). Petitions for Student Forum Vice-President for Academics are due ,tomorrow at CC408 Emergency Meeting Provides No Common Ground Continued from page I of plot homes. Several schools, including the Brown School and the Mount Pleasant School are situated in the G.E. Plot. In addition, Assini claims, \Union College will meet every_thing [all regulations] except the People With Disabilities Act.\ Ben Wiles, a representative of the plot, disagreed that Union would prevail in court. \The court will have to decide if we are looking at a zoning ordinance or a historic commission ordinance. Anything the legislature passes presumes constitutionality.\ Wiles disagreed with the administration's view that the · Council is taking too long to render a decision. \All has to unfold before the Council can address this issue.\ Wiles argued that the College should abide by the same rules that all homeowners in the pl.ot must abide by. \We maintain our houses with regards to the statute and we are asking the Council to ask tl1e College to live with the same headaches because there are some meaningful restrictions.\ Bill Oliver, from the Corporation Council's Office, states that \it is quite clear thatthis is a legislative issue ... this is not best left in the Court of Appeals.\ Oliver added that \The amendment of the ordinance is subject to tl1e Council.\ Oliver discussed the precedent set by the courts in the Cornell case. In a case similar to the one that Union was expected to bring against Schenectady, Oliver explained that the courts decided that \educational institutions have a unique stand in the community.\ \This does not mean that educational institutions have carte blancl1e ... the city shouldn't say 'do what you want to do.\' The Court of Appeals decision requires institutions to prove that they will not have a significant negative and irreparable impact on the community. Oliver added that \I have not found a case yet in which educational use [of property] damaged the neighborhood so as to exclude on that grounds alone.\ Nonetheless, \Legally there is a heavy burden on the College to overcome the ordinance.\ As far as the revised DEIS is concerned, Oliver added that Union's submission of the document \would aid the Council in determining whether there are problems with Union;s plans.\ In response to why Union has not resubmitted the DEIS, Assini argued that \We have made a good faith effort and asking the College to submit the DEIS goes beyond a reasonable inquiry. In the event that the College is allowed to submit its special-use pennit application, the College would submit the DEIS if requested.\ TI1ough Union claimed that it didn't need to submit the DEIS at this juncture m the proceedings, members of the community believe that the statement is inadequate, Councilman Notar suggested that Assini and the College should meet with Oliver to discuss their next move. Councilman Stratton stipulated thatamajority of the Council had already made a decision on· the issue. \I believe that a majority of the Council knows where they stand on the issue, barring some kind of compromise corning from the Col1ege.'' ·conroy disagreed that the Council had reached a decision. \We have the most knowledgeable n.eighborhood working with the best educational institution ... It is a shame that we can't find a common ground.\ The next day Union announced a lawsuit. Seniors: We're almost there I

r----------------------------------------, HOW TO KEEP PEOPLE'S HANDS OFF YOUR MONEY. i Carry only enough cash to last the day. Anyone· who tries to borrow your last five spot ish't a friend, anyway. i Label your spare-change jar \beetle farm!' Then, put your beetle farm in a jar labeled \spare change.\ i Mark up every space on checks. Don't leave room for someone to fill in their name and extra zeros. i Keep your wallet in your front pocket. It discourages pickpockets. So does wearing really tight pants. i Put your picture on your credit card. A Citibank Photocard is tough for anyone else to use, unless they look just.\like you. I

Janua·ry 19, 1995, page 6 NEWS Changing Rush Rules The Internet Explosion is available on the web. Tims, students have a new resource for researching paper topics. Cur- rently people can go web-shop- ping ordering CDs, pizza from Pizza Hut and in the near future, many more exciting things. by Christoph Ringwald Concordiensis Staff In an attempt to find out whether or not they want to go greek,. more than one hundred anxious Union College women will be taking part in msh this Sunday. One of the purposes of rush is to \see whether there is a mutual interest between the rushees and the sororities,\ said President of Delta Delta Delta, Monique Li- ons. This year, the rush process has been changed in several ways. Unlike in the past, rushees are al- lowed to visit the houses preced- ing rush. This gives women an additional chance to get to know the sisters of each house. Rush has become more infor- mal. Currently, rushees are en- couraged to wear jeans, except for the last evening of rush. In the past, one of the chief com- plaints about rush, especially among greek women, is that rush is too superficial. A number of greek women believe that rush, which lasts four days, is not a long enough time period to get to know a rushee. \It is hard judging some- one only after four nights,\ said Lions. \I feel that it is very unfair that sisters have to make a decision of your personality based on onl) four days,\ said a potential rushee. However, other greek women contend that rush has become Jess superficial. \It is not as superfi- cial as it used to be, and all so- rorities are working very hard so that it is not superficial,\ said President of Gamma Phi Beta, Anne Rozwadowski. Lions feels that the rush process is seriously flawed. \It is hard changing something that is in- nately imperfect,\ said Lions. She points out that there are national rules that every sorority has to comply with. \These are not Union rules. These are national rules that we all have to follow.\ \The rush process has become more fair.\ said the President of Delta Gamma, Sasha Mason. \TI1e process is not as selective or harsh as other people think it is.\ Another change that has taken place concems the rush counse- lors, or the Rho Chis .. For the first time ever, Rho Chis were selected by Caroline .J. Paine & from their own houses. Bretton Saunders \Whether or not a woman gets Union's Bicenteninal has been a bid is not based on her looks, a celebration of the past but is far wealth, or intelligence, but rather from ignoring the limitless pes- on her personality,\ said the sibilities for its future. Tamer- President of Sigma Delta Tau, row, Friday, January 20, Jessica Christine Gagliano. Moreover, · Adelson, Class of 1989 and Di- she notes that everyone has a fair . rector of 011-Iine Services for chance. \Everyone is viewed as NetGuide Magazine will speak equal. Everyone gets paid the on \The lntemet Explosion\ in same attention.\ Another greek the College Center Auditorium at woman commented: \I think that 12:30 PM. most houses have an open mind One .of the key topics to be dis- about each woman.'' cussed will be the advent of the A lot of greek women believe \World Wide Web\ (WWW). wholeheartedly that rush is aposi- TI1e WWW is a hypennedia sys- tive experience and a great oppor- tem spanning institutions across tunity to make friends. \I think . the world allowing people to re- you can make your best friends ceive documents consisting of through msh, even if you don't movies, graphics, text and other join a particular house,\ stated a media formats directly to their Delta Gamma sister. computers. Using a \Web- \I think this rush wiH go browser'' such as \Mosaic\ al- smoothly. I am looking forward lows a person to maneuver to it,\ stated a Rho Chi. throughoutthe web (and all ofthe intemet) in order to find infor- mation on schools, businesses Correction: Ill last week's paper, tlu~ draft version of tlris article appeared instead of tl1.e ji11al version. Tllis is tlte·edited version. and almost anything of interest. Because academic institutions have been the leaders in the ex- pansion of the intemet, a large variety of academic information Michael Srniles, Senior Devel- opment Officer for Union Col- lege, hopes to establish a club for students who are interested in leaming and developing infor- mation for the web. Eventually he intends to have the WWW ter- minals in the library for general student use. \Our first challenge is to build a library for the pub- lic,\ Smiles said. \The public's needs are changing. TI1e library wiH have to fill these changing needs.\ Smiles feels the main way to fulfill these is for easy WWW access for the student body. \The problem is that we do not have the resources get aH people on (the web) yet,\ Simi- les stated. In order to begin in- stating the WWW as a part of Union College it is necessary for students to show an interest in teaming more about it. Students are encouraged to attend Adelson's presentation and join Smile's proposed club. Summer Positions Available JCC Cam·p Kingswood, a co-ed overnight camp for children ages 8-16, located in Bridgeton, Maine (operated by the Jewish Community Centers of Greater Boston) Positions available for '95 summer session for counselors, office & kitchen staff. If you're looking for a fun summer working with children in a beautiful camp environment we may have the perfect job for you. ' The director will be on campus on Monday, January 30 and will be available at the CDC for interviews. Please drop of a resume at the CDC or schedule an interview by the 26th .. For more information, call Ed Pletman at the camp office at (617) 244-5124. ASTHMA RESEARCH Asthma is a chronic respiratory disorder characterized by coughing, wheezing and shortness of breath. We are dedicated to evaluating investigational drugs for the inflammation and obstruction found in the lungs of those with asthma. We need asthmatics, age 4-65 years, to help evaluate research medications. TI1ey must be nonsmokers in good health. Participants will receive a free asthma evaluation, related care and the opportunity to team more about their asthma. Those qualified will receive study medication and be paid. These studies are conducted under the supervision of a board certified allergist and clinincal immunologist in a private office setting. For more information call 434-0140 Monday- Friday 8 am- 5 pm. or 1-800-363-3464 (24 hours) Albany Medical College 62 Hackett Boulevard Albany, NY 12209-1718 Allergy Division Thomas B. Edwards, MD Principal Investigator Ex~eiience in Patient Care and Clinical Research Winter Special at Visage! Call us at 374-0351 Women's Haircuts ................... $13 Men's ····~·········••a••••••••••e•••••••••••••••••$9 Perms ......••..•.......••...•..•....•...•..•• $40 Stains ························•••••••e••••···· $25 -with cuts ................. -o••• $35 Highlights u················e·············· $45 -with cuts eaeeeeeaaa•eoaotaae•aCI $55 Manicures ····•·a••••••n••••············· $12 We also have a new hair straightener ($45) which works without frizzing, making hair healthier than before the treatment. For people with naturally curly hair or to remove perms. The $pecial rates only apply with Penny, Karin, Melissa and Beth = lay est en< tim ext Pr< tor 1 tht ser gel ha' me for sai the for rna (ki an< are the arr net sh< the pri dn ch< for va1

. Wire QJ~ncnrai.ensis NEWS January 19, 1995, page 7 Yulman Theater Finally Opens Doors to Students by Adrian MacLean COIICordiensis Staff Looking past the numerous de- lays, Union's Yulman TI1eater is estimated to be completed by the end ofthe month. \Despite all the setbacks and time problems it is going to be an extremely flexible theater space,\ Professor William Finlay, Direc- tor of the Y ulman Theater said. When designing a theater for the performing arts the actor serves as the primary pleasing tar- get. Titis theater is designed to have an intensive acting eiwiron- ment. \This is going to fonn a seed for an expanding theater,\ Finlay said. classical all the way to contem- porary,\ Finlay said. When you walk into the main door of the Yulman you walk immediately into the lobby area. The glass windows and doors in- vite guests to view Jackson'sGar- den. The box office is located in the lobby area to prevent the lines outside the theater. Equipped with a computerization and a charge card system, the box of- fice will be able make tickets more accessible. A few of the features include the main theater, an acting room for classes. a base1nent .filled with make-up rooms, a green room (kitchen area), costume rooms and set building and construction area. One of the unique features of the actual theater is the seating arrangement. There is no perma- nent seating! Depending on the show and the estimated audience, the seating is arranged differently prior to each show. In the ceiling of the theater, a state of the art lighting system has been installed, TI1e unique thing about this is the taut wire on which people may walk above the stage to acOust the lights. Al- though the wire is under the lights, it is close enot!gh that a shadow is not cast on the stage. This will advance the technologi- cal abilities of students and fac- ulty as well as make more intrigu- ing produ.ctions. The arts department has a Tech- nical Produ.ction Class now and with this new equipment they hope to attract more interest from actors and tech students. After many months of ltard work, the Yulman Til eater is jinal(v complete a}td ready for student use (plloto by Joslma Wills Haines exclusively for Tile Co11cordiensis) The stage also includes a trap door that can lower arid raise characters from the basement area - allowing for more flexibility for Union productions. \TI1is will provide an eclectic variety of plays ranging from \We want to attract committed theater students interested in leaming in <!liberal arts environ- ment,\ Finlay said. In order to get a feeling for the crowd and to link them with the tech crew, there is a window over looking the lobby from the tech area. This window does not ope11, and. itis sound pmof. Converse! y. there is a sliding window for the crew to·open so tJ1ey can commu- nicate with the actors. The Yulman 11leater has been fully equipped to handle disabled people. TI1ere are elevators and ramps to help make the theater accessible to everyone. Even in the tech room, an elevator was installed to t~ke a person up the Department of .Biological Sciences Meeting For Biology and Pre - Health Students Agenda -Guest: Dean Linda E. Cool -Pre - Health Program -Summer Research Opportunities -Biology Club Activities -Students' Concerns Monday, January 23rd !tl 4:30P.M. College Center Auditorium few stairs into the working area. This was to ensure that each Union student has an opportunity to participate in the production process. TI1e physical expansion of the At1s department luis and will re- sult in a larger department. Pro- fessor Finlay is new this year, making three full time theater profe~sors. The goal is to kee.p the department small enough that students can be provided with a big vision of the theater. Professional prodLtctions will be invited to perform in the Yulman Theater. This May the production hfahou Mines will come to Union. The goal of out- side perfonnances is to provide another outlet to experience the tlu;ater. 200th Birthday Preview~ by Jodi Mousseau Concordiensis Staff In the glowing presence in tra- dition and festivities, Union will celebrate something of a rarity this year. The Union College community will sing its alma mater and happy birthday to the college, something that few col- leges or universities in the United States have been able to do two hundred times. This will all cul- minate on Founders Day. the of- ficial celebration of the charter granted by the Regents of the State of New York for the estab- lishment of Union College on February 25, 1795. The bicen- tennial Founders Day will be dif- ferent than the Founders Days of the past. The fourteen mo11th bicenten- nial year has much to offer any individual who plays a part in the Union community. Ordinarily, the festivities last one day and consist of a late morning convo- cation that includes a guest lec- ture by a distinguished speaker and a musical perfonnance, fol- lowed by a lunch for faculty and student leaders. This year the occasion will last two days, Sat- urday and Sunday. Febmary 25 and 26. A two hour convocation on Saturday at 10 am will begin the historic event. During the convocation, a series of greetings will be given by several people, and a ten minute piece of music composed by NYU professor of music and Union alumnus. Brian Fennelly, will be perfonned. Sev- eral medals will be awarded to outstanding alumni during the convocation. TI1e rededication of the Nott Memorial will take place that aftemoon, by invitation only. followed by the evening perfor- mance of the Duke Ellington Or- chestra at the Social Gala from 7:30pm to 12:30 am. A colloquium on town-college relations will be the focus of the Stockade exhibitions at the First Presbyterian Church at l pm on Sunday, followed at 3pm by a presentation in Memmial Chapel. The reception for the reopening of the Nott will be the students' first chance to witness the result oft he year long constmction. The first exhibition will present in- sight on the Nott, its history and its construction. TI1is October, the bicentennial celebration will come to a close . with the Symposium entitled \Liberal Arts Colleges and Lead- ership in the 21st Century.\ TI1e basis will be what colleges have to do to produce leaders in the next century. In addition to the fireworks and ice sculptures of the Nott and huge birthday cakes from earlier this year, the bicentennial celebra- tion will be one of the most sig- nificant moments in the history of Union college for years to come.

January 19, 1995, Page 8 WORLD NEWS - . NEWS BRIEFS - ' . . . The World's Religious Dimension Internatinnal: Japan: An earthquake reg- istering 7.2 on the Richter scale rocked the port city of Kobe, Osaka, and the historic city of Kyoto. At leasthundreds dead L-~--~---------'~ and more than 13,000 injured. National:. New Y 0 rk: Jury selection starts in Long Island, NY. case of a man accused of killing six on train in December 1993: defendant to represent himself. Colorado: The Supreme Court will consider the case of Colorado m<m who lost a federal road-building contract be- cause he is white. California: Evangelical Luthernn church leaders ruled an Oakland. California congregation will be allowed to keep its gay minister. Parishioners of St. Paul Lutheran Church. who defied a previous order to fire Ross Merkel, leamed of the decision Sunday. Last February. a disciplinary body defrocked Merkel for being involved in a homosexual rela- tionship. The church allows homosexual clergy as long as they are not sexually active. \Visconsin: Police charged a Shawano. Wis. woman with child neglect after police say she left five children - ages 2 to I 2- in a filthy apartment for three days with only beer, pickle juice and mustard while she went drinking in Green Bay. Texas: TI1e Supreme Court refused to block the execution of Mario Marquez. 36. His lawyers say Marquez, whose IQ is 65. should be spared because he is retarded. Marquez was to die by lethal injection in Huntesville. Texas, just after 1 a.m. ET today for raping and strangling bis wife's 14-year- old niece. ABC's Ted Koppel was expected to witness the execution for a two-part Niglllline. Source: Jhe New• Y11n Time.'> 111-195 by Matt Sandler Co11cordiensis Staff The debate over school prayer has been forced onto the agenda with the Republican victory. This is a classic constitutional question where the actual case of the argument is irrelevant to the decision and future prece- dent. The question becomes .in this debate, not on the notion of school prayer but how far World News Opinion people will allow the principle of separation of church and state to be bent. Tlie United States of America is a nation founded on the ideaofreligious freedom. this is a sacred comer- stone of our national conscious- ness. If we change one of the principles that founded our na- tion, do we not only change those ideals. but ourselves? Religion has been the savior-· and the curse of mankind since the beginning of time. Recog- nizing the fact that most of hu- man pain and suffering inflicted on this earth can be attributed to impassioned and blind reli- gions fervor. History is replete with examples of religious cm- elty, bigotry; hatred, and death, of catastrophic proportions. A sense of -spiritual guidance that gives people inner peace and should unify peoples of this world, has more often than not, been the cause of our diversity and conflicts. Often times, what Boris Y eltsin and the Unrest in the Province of Chechnya by Marc Foster Concordiensis Staff As late as August last year. Boris Yeltsin was on record re- nouncing an invasion of the province of Chechnya. seated at World News Opinion first, an attempt to reinvigorate Censure from the West isim- Russians • waning confidence in minent. :as well, given the. ex- government. But as Chechen tent of the devastation in forces continued to successfully Chechnya: bridges and power resist the invading Army, it be- plants have been bombarded, came clear that Y eltsin 's plan residences leveled, and an or .. had been foiled by intense phanage in Grozny was de- Checben nationalism. Military stroyed one day after Yeltsin intervention in the region se- pledged an end to the bombing. cured little support of Army The military operation the base of the Russian repnb- commanders from the outset, rested on the shoulders of a lie near the --------------------~ \ •• with morale low and objections to inter- vention coming from within the central command, it is difficult to understand why Yeltsin would have pressed for the invasion. Russian Anny ill- prepared and un- fit. And with mo- rale low and ob- jections to- inter- vention coming from within the Caspian Sea. Yeltsin pro- claimed that such an offen- sive would \bring on such tumult and so much blood History alone sho.uld have deterred the sudden move to aggression ... \ central command, it is difficult to un- that they will never forgive us.\ But in the span offourmontbs. Yeltsin reversed his position and had, by December, decided to invade. The action came as neg~tiations were on-going and the Russian tactic of seeming disregard to the independence movement in Chechnya ap- peared to be working. The internal strife that Checlmya has caused Y eltsio is increasingly visible. It was. at and after the recurring scenes of violence and destruction flooded the airwaves. Yeltsin's base of support~pro-reform democrats led by former Prime Minister Y egor Gaidar-4ie- nounced the forceful interven- tion. Rumors abound that Yeltsin will cancel the 1996 presidential elections in an ef- fort to retain power should the Chechen situation deteriorate further. derstand why Yeltsin would have pressed for the invasion. History alone shouid have dt:- terred the sudden move to ag- gression; Russia fought a 4 7 year war to wrest the lands of Cbechnya and the Caucasus. A century later, the Russians' hold on Chechnya is on the verge of collapse, and with it, Boris Yeltsin's hold on power. happens is that a religion with different customs and norms. gets transferred onto people. Instead of seeing the person or nation, people see a religion dif- ferent from themselves and de- fine that person or nation by those differences. Look any- where throughout history and you will see wars, invasions. persecutions, prejudice, massa- cres, heresy, inquisitions, cor- ruption, and terrorism. Look around the world today, there are many examples of these in- herited traits that manifest them- bettennent of society's and their own economic well being. Some. have said that the Schoo) prayer would be a mo- ment ofsilence to \collect one's thoughts before school.\ In- stead of the five minutes that the school would require why not take twenty minutes before or after school. Witb other press- ing national pr~blems the de- bate over prayer in public schools is a distraction that does not help the United States. America is great because of its diversity that this nation has \The United States of America is a nation founded on the idea of religious freedom, this is a sa~ red cornerstone of our national conscious- ness. lfwe change one of the principles that founded our nation, do we not only change those ideals, but ourselves?\ selves in conflicts that are in- spired by the religion. The Arab-Israeli wars and conflicts, the situation in the fanner Yu-- goslavia, the Muslim insurrec- tion in Algeria, Saddam Hussein batting the Shite Muslims in Southem Iraq, and the situation in the Grozny, Chechnya. Knowing the spiritual ben- efits ofreligion,but also under- standing the inhumanity too, we must ask ourselves if we want an ever expanded role of reli- gion in the United States. School prayer will not give back America's morals. the only place for that is in the home. It is only at home you can and will learn the values that will define your life. Ad\lilts can leam a lot from children, children will play and have a good time with any- one until someone says, \you can't play with him he's differ- ent.\ It is up to families to teach their kids the values that our nation cherishes, and the way to do that is t~? get people to work: in a productive capacity to the Correction: been built on. What about the rights of atheists who attend public schools, Are their rights any less important than yours because they believe differ- ently? Should they be forced into a position of school prayer or a 'moment of silence.' As long as there is economic prosperity, prejudice and big- otry are dormant, however, whenever there is an 'economic downturn,~ the repressed anger is unleashed. To proceed with school prayer would not only question America's commit- ment to the ideals, which cre- ated our nation, but could fur- ther exacerbate tbe volatile eth- nic tensions. America has suc- ceeded when our diversities become our strengths and we work together as Americans, rather than as Americans sepa- rated by ethnicity. Ethnicity is a strong element in our national consciousness. however this along with religion can also be our greatest stumbling block. In last week's issue of The Concordiensis, there was a mistake made when attributing credit for articles in the World News section. The article entitled \Action is Urgently Ordered,'' was written by Matt Sandler, and the article entitled \Paula Jones and Whitewater: Clinton's Year\ was written by Marc Foster. Anyone who is interested in contrib- uting a different opinion on issues raised or who has knowledge of other areas of th.e world that they would like to share with the college commu- nity should submit their articles to Craig, Box 2577, by 4 PM on the Monday before pub6cation. Any writers can also attend the weekly staff meetings on Thursdays at 7:30 PMinCC303. 1 de tot fOl sa co an sa1 SIT th( ha m( It mt gtJ cit co tri, m( ne ter sy Sir m: sej of na me ml ta~ an ap us ea sc be ch ch us Ia: w1 cc te WI be be; m of pa b~ cc w re vi TI OI Fe Pi ec u sa d~ at al: pi ai OJ pi Sl d: ni

SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY January 19, 1995, page 9 The Chemical and Electrical Interpretations of Taste by Andy Salama Co-Science Editor Taste is perhaps the least un- derstood human se11se. It is as- tonishing that humans have only four types of taste: bitter, sweet, salty, and sour. These tastes combine in different quantities, and the end result is a taste sen- sation. Interestingly, the sense of smell is practically essential for the taste sensation. taste sweet, but are chemically distinct. Taste buds, also called taste re- ceptor cells, are localized on the tongue. They are composed of clusters of cells (50-150). The cells are long and spindle-shaped • t~1ree different types, each found on a distinct area of the tongHe. Taste infonnation is translated from a chemical signal into an elec- trical signal by neurons. Neurons penetrate taste buds and make con- nections to individual taste cells. unstimulated cell is negative, · with respect to the surround- ings. When a positive ion like sodium enters the cell, the elec- trical charge difference between the outside and inside is changed. The result is called a Second messenger pathways in- volve complicated series' of chemi- cal reactions that usually occur in a successive order. A group of chemicals called GTP-binding pro- teins, or G-pr:oteins, are essential regulators. For many years, scientists have been tryit1g to unlock the molecular mechanisms for taste. It appears that taste operates much like our other senses. A gtJstatory stimulus, or taste, ex- cites· a \taste -cell\ which then converts the stimulus to an elec- trical message. This electrical message is carried to the brain by neurons, where the taste is regis- tered. What makes this sensation system complicated is that a single taste cell can respond to many different tastes. It would seem ideal to have distinct classes of cells for each type of taste, but nature was not so kind. This means that a taste-receptor cell must be able to distinguish one tastant (chemical stimulant) from another. From recent research it appears that taste-receptor cells use distinct pathways to perceive each type of taste. Sweet taste transduction, a complex process involving cell-surface receptors ami messenger molecules G-proteins are composed of three protein sub-units (alpha, beta, and gamma) which are located close to the cell membrane. The alpha sub-unit has a GTP/GDP moiety attached to it. When a tastant binds to a protein receptor on the cell surface, it causes a con- fonnational change in the G-pro- tein. In the G-protein's inactive state,the alpha sub-unit binds GOP. However, in the active or dissoci- ated state, it binds a GTP molecule. TI1e \activated\ alpha sub-unit then stimulates an enzyme called adenylyl cyclase to conveti A TP to cAMP. This cylic nucleotide in tum causes a protein called protein kinase A to add a phosphate group to a potassium channel. This reac- tion called a phosphorylation opens a channel and causes a depolariza- tion. The depolarization in turn causes a release of a neurotransmit- ter, and an electrical signal which is perceived as a sweet taste. To even further complicate the scenario, the four taste types can be achieved through countless chemicals. For example sucrose, chloroform, and alanine may all with tiny protrusions called mi• crovilli. The clusters of taste- cells fonn a gourd shaped stmc- ture with a pore at the top. This pore is surrounded by the mi- crovilli. Tastants, chemicals that posses intrinsic taste, enter the taste pore and interact with the microvilli. The microvilli cell membranes are covered with pro- tein receptor molecules, and pro- tein channels. The perception of taste begins at this molecular level. The average life span of a taste bud is about 2 weeks. They are continually replaced with new taste buds. Mammalian taste buds are grouped''into structures called papillae. Humans. have Information about taste is initially passed by chemicals called neu- rotransmitters. Neurons detect these neurotransmitters and con- vert them into an electrical signal. Salt and .sour tastes are the sim- pler of the group. They rely on channels built into the cell mem- branes oftaste-receptor cells to rec- ognize taste. Electrically charged ions are able to pass into and out of cells by way of specialized chan- nels, called ion channels. The taste of salt is usually initiated by the positively charged sodium ion of sodium chloride, common table salt. Recent data suggest that the following mechanism explains the salt sensation. The interior of an A New View on Surgery by Scott Steele Concordiensis Staff aging {MRI), computed x-ray ages generated by different instru- tomography and digital subtrac- ments, and hopes to add ultrasound tion angiography. During sur- scanning to the existing device.' The average person has little gery, the computer is able to The technique would provide a use for night-vision goggles or monitor the positions of the sur- real-time image of the area that re- laser-targeting systems, which is gical instruments being used. fleets tissue movements, The dif- why it is often difficult to find a This is performed by measuring ficult part comes in that data from correlation between defense the time it takes ultrasonic pulses the ultrasonic scan would be used technology and the civilian to travel from tiny \beacons\ to \bend\ the image stored in the world. But one new project may mounted on the instruments to computer into an accurate picture be able to bridge the gap ---~------------- ofthe tissue. between high-technology \A navigational system is being The fixed-image equip- military imaging and that ment which is currently · d 1 · developed that could provide of phys1cians an t 1e1r being used consists of a patients. surgeons with a three-dimensional, television screen mounted A navigation system is real-time, transparent view of a next to_ the surgical site. being developed that surgical site. The device could Leonard has proposed the could provide surgeons save the lives ofpatients who idea of using helmet- with a three-dimensional, mounted displays similar I . undergo long difficult operations.\ rea -tune, transparent to those used by fighter pi- view of a surgical site. 1 lots. In this way a com- The equipment is being devel- 11earby microphones. The corn- puter generated image would be oped by the Cleveland Clinical putet recognizes tl1e shapes of the displayed inside the headgear. TI1is Foundation, with the aid of instruments, so it can superirn- would allow the surgeon to view Picker International, a medical pose moving images of the. tools the image while looking away from equipment manufacturer, and the onto the stored representation of the work site very minimally. U.S. Air Force. The device could the brain. Tile resulting image is After this is achieved, the next save the lives of patients who un- then displayed to the surgeons. step would be to equip the com- dergo long difficult operations. At the present time 1 the appa- puter with a voice activated system. , Gene Bamett, a neurosurgeon ratus is unable to be used on other This would allow a surgeon to use at the clinic, has already been parts of the body. Due to the fact the equipment without the assis- able to develop a fixed -image that breathing displaces tissues, tance of a computer operator. prototype ofthe apparatus which a fixed image obtained before Leonard believes that the project aids in brain surgery. Prior to the surgery doesn't remain accurate. will be complete in approximately operation, an i~ge of the James D. Leonard of Wright- 5 years. Keep your eyes out for it. patient's brafn is produced by a · l>~~erson Air Force Base is hop- super computer by compilJrlg ing· to ·a;id Barnett's cause. data from thre-e standard\tech- · I.:eonai'd fs an expert in \sensor ' niques- magnetic reso~~ce im- fusion,\ the art of combining irn- Source: Scientific American Nov. /994 depolarization, that gives rise to the release of a neurotransmit- ter, and eventually an electrical signal. It is interesting to note that this is only one mechanism, there may be dozens more. Sour taste is usually carried in acidic substances such as.hy- drochloric acid, or lactic acid. What characterizes an acid is its ability to release a free hydro- gen ion, which happens to be positively charged(usually). Research at Colorado State University suggests that when hydrogen ions are released from tastants, they block potassium channels, preventing their re- lease from a cell. This causes a difference in charge over the cell membrane and results in an electrical depolarization. Sweet and bitter sensations are molecularly more compli- cated than either salt or sour. They involve specialized recep- tor molecules on cell surfaces, and a resultant cascade of reac- tions that occnr in the cell. The internal chemical signals that result from extracellular stimu- lation are called second mes- sengers. They may include fatty acids, ions such as cal- cium, or cyclic nucleotides. Of key importance for the sensa- tion of sweet and bitter is a fam- ily of nucleotides called GTP' s. The molecular mechanism for bitter taste also involves second messetigers and G-proteins. When a bitter receptor encounters a bit- ter tastant, it causes a change in the shape of the cytoplasmic G-pro- tein. TI1e alpha sub-unit is released from the G-protein and stimulates a protein, phopholipase C. to con- vert a membrane bound lipid to a small chemical messenger IP3. This tiny lipid molecule causes a cytoplasmic release of calcium ions. The release of calcium ions results in the opening of a ootassium channel. Potassium ions flow out of the cell, and the steps leading to a nerve impulse and the perception of a bitter taste are trig- gered. The perception of taste has re- mained a mystery for humans since the Roman times. Now. as we be- gin to enter the twe11ty-first cen- tury, biologists have begun to un- lock nature's secret to one of our most appreciated senses. Source: American Scientist, No- vern her/Decem her 1994. The Biology Department and the Biology Club Present: Martha Kirouac \Regulation of Purine Metabolism in the Budding Yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae\ Refreshments will be served prior to the presentation at 4:30PM, Thursday (tonight) and the presentation will begin at 4:40PM.

January 19, 1995, page 10 Union and Schenectady Deserve Each Other Union was once regarded as one of the best colleges in the United States. A few decades ago Schenectady was a vibrant city with a population of 1 00,000. It is not surprising that Union's fall from the top and Schenectady's decline occurred almost simultaneously. · President Hull is correct when he says that Schenectady must bloom for Union to thrive. Local politicians are likewise correct when they explain that Schenectady's well-being is predicated on the prosperity of the Col- lege. Unfortunately, both Schenectady politicians and Union administrators don't practice what they preach. When both Union and Schenectady hit hard times, it would seem only logical for the Union Administration and the city government to pool their resources and to help one another. Hull helped to create Schenectady 2000, yet he has managed to alienate many Schenectadians, first, with the highway signs detouring visitors so that they avoid certain areas of Schenectady, and more currently through the College's actions in the G.E. Realty Plot situation. The timing of the situation has been impeccable. As the College prepares to celebrate its bicentennial, the Union Administration decides to sue the city. The City and the residents are equally to blame for this whole mess. There is absolutely no reason why the City Council has allowed this ordeal to dangle for four years. The impetus to solve the problem expeditiously came only when the threatoflawsuit seemed imminent. The community is partially at fault as well. Compro- mising entails making some concessions. While the · College made several compromises, the community re- jected them all~-telling the administration to move else- where. Maybe this case was destined for court. Union is ob- . sessed with money and building, and the City has a pro- .· pensity for forgetting the importance of Union to the economic well-being of Schenectady. With this era of separation between school and city, desperate times lay ahead for both Union and Schenectady. roo:q~ (!Lltucli.,llti~ · Tlte Studmt N¢wspaper of u,,;~~.'C~l~ge ~in~ ~ H,1i. . .... David Levine Edilor .. in-( ~hie.f Executive Editor News Editor Features Editors Arts Editors Spotts Editors Copy Editor Photo Editor World News Editor Opinions Editor Heath¢r Reynolds Jiditor.;in-( .'hie.f LisaLemoi Car6line Paine Erin O'Neil. Alexis Leist Sttzaune Robinson; Leet}a Mankad . K¢n1ly B~P.Pflri~ Jaspn Starr . · · · ·· · ,. ·• ··• ·. Dial1a St.tdita • ; .• > .··.·•·· .• ·••.. J(JsliJI~ines Cr&ig <J:ret'liiherg Sar~h Evans ; -··' ;•- .- ~- • -- < ~ •• -;. •••• Science & Technology Editors Living Editor · Computer Manager Photographers ••• 1 •• - •. :-·. Staff: Stephanie Berliitet; Vln .· Marc Foster, Nalin;i <3.~PAA1 •. $: .. Mike Leding; Adrian. .. ~L • Bhavani Navari; Larry ~a~ka.'Wi Billy Shakos, Shv~ta ,$Jivas~~Y8i;,,· Carrie Wheeler. · ·· · · ·'· \•'·' ·. . :·< ·' . The Concordiensb: meets evl;}cy M®dlt :: :J:\l~s9ay .oftl~e aca .. demic year. It is published bythe st ItJ:hion Cdllege and in . OP-ED OPINIONS Questioning of the Drinking Age by Tony Levecchia Concordiensis Stqff I turned 18 last Monday. Along with the ability to vote I also gained the rather exclusive privi- lege to register with the Selective Service. So at this point as an American citizen, I have the abil- ity to influence one of the f:,'Teat- est democracies of all time. I can also be chosen to die for my coun- try. At the same time, however, I do not have the right to walk down to one of Schenectady's fitter .drinking establishments and order myself a Golden Anniversary beer. If at age 18, one becomes re- sponsible enough to vote and old enough to die for one's country, I can't understand why they also should not be viewed as respon- sible enough to purchase and con- .sume alcoholic beverages. It seems to me that there is some sort of convenient double standard at work here. Those who disagree with me on this issue would be quick to point out that at age 18 people are not yet mature enough to make deci- sions about alcohol. Fine, but by following that line of logic you would also have to agree that one shouldn't vote until their 21 or be responsible to register with the Selective Service. Now I don't think I personally know of any one who is openly advocating changing the voting age or the age that one must register with the Selective Service. So if everyone agrees that 1 8 is the proper age to allow people to vote, and the cor- rect age to make people register with the Selective Service, then it seems to me that to any open minded reasonable person it should seem evident that the cur- rent drinking law is unfair. I am in no way encouraging underage drinking (under the cur- rent law), but the fact is it exists. In reality, despite the laws that exist, it is fairly easy for some- one under the age to buy and con- sume alcohol. If anything, the law that currently exists helps to en- courage teens to drink because it makes drinking taboo. It's against the rules to drink so at the same time it becomes more desirable. Psychological studies per- formed on children have shown that a toy that was previously rated as mediocre will become much more desirable to children once they are told that they are not allowed to play with it. In the same way, drinking becomes the forbidden fruit in a teen's mod- em Garden qfEden. h1 the same way that a compact disc with a parental warning on it becomes desirable, it becomes cool to drink because the government and other authority figures have prohibited it. It seems to me that the govern- ment would do people a much bigger service if they reallocated all the money spent on prevent- ing underage drinking; which in my opinion is a futile effort, and instead fund programs that edu- cate teens and people in general about the dangers of alcohol and the importance of responsible drinking. I also think the money could be used to further combat the problem of drunk driving. Well folks here I sit. I'm 18, I've sent in my fonns to the Se- lective Service. I'm registered to vote in the next election. I guess however that I'll have to wait three more years before I can make my own personal choice whether or not to drink. Editorials, Letters & Disclaimers Letters-to the Editor should be addressed to the OP-ED Page and must be received by 4 p.m., the Monday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community .. Final Decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed, although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, if the writer so speci.fies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Soard, and no one memb~r in particular. Any opinion columns reflect the opinions of the writers, and not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial Board. Advertisements appearing in The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the ()pinion of the Editorial Board. The Concordiensi.v is published eight Thursdays a term by the students of Union College. It is funded in part by the Student Activities Fee. The Concordiensis, copyright 1994, all rights reserved. Box 2577, College Center, Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308. Telephone (518) 388-6155. The Concordiensis is printed by The Leader Herald, 8-10 East Fulton Street, Gloversville, New York 12078. The Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP), College Pres.s Service, National Student News Service, King Syndicates. The Concordiensis is a member ofthe As.\'Ociated Collegiate Press. SUBMISSIONS: All submissions are due the Monday before publication, at 4 p.m. if they are submitted on either Macintosh Microsoft Word disks, or MS-Dos Microsoft Word or Wordperfect disks. Otherwise, all submissions are due Friday by 4 p.m. in the drop box outside of The Concordiensis office on the third floor of the College Center.

OPINIONS January 19, 1995, page 11 Gender Equ~lity Needed in Weight Room by Jenn Terrell Contributing Writer onUnion'sSwimmingandDiv- pleased when they were infonned ing team, and unfortunately, we their precious weight room would use the very weight room that I be closed to them for an entire hour lfyou have ever ventured into am speaking of. We have two, so the swim team {and yes, that in- the Alumni Gym between the one-hour slots where the weight eludes the women's swim team) hours of 2 and 5 p.m. on any room is reserved for our use. could use the facility. This year is given weekday here at Union After four years of having to hardly any differel1t from any other College, you are likely to be born.- deal with this weight room year. Although I'm sure they have barded by a familiar scene: Union dHema, I begin to think that I get noticed the schedule posted on the women packed on tlw bicycles, more of a workout trying to get door at some point during their stainnasters and treadmills with themanlymen offtheirprecious many trips to get pumped up, the their trusty --------~~------~--~~ menoftheweight walkmans, maga- \OccassionaHy you will see an ambitious room blatantly ig- z,ines and water individual of the. ~ale species riding a bike nored it and con- bottles sweating • th t · t t · tinued on their or usmg · · e s a1rmas er, or an ou -gomg away, and Union merry way past men in the weight female I!Jraving the harsh conditions of the 3 : 30 p.m. with rooms,. pumping weight room to get in a few reps, but this is, their weight rou- theirbrainsout,eyes mindyou,veryrare.\ tine. Even the bulging and face'5 weight room atten- red, with huge weight plates that toys for one or two reps- it's dant at the time was not too happy, are so big they look like they nearly impossible. to say the least, about instructing came straight out of the At the beginning of the year, the burly men as to the hours that Flintstones. No mixing, you will the weight room schedules were they were \allowed\ to come back. notice, between the male and fe- carefully posted on the doors of \Where is your coach?\ He asked male species in the \rnen 's terri- the rooms, indicating what times me with a caught-in-the~headlights tory\ and the \wQ!_n._en's terri- would be available for Union expression. Finally, our assistant tory\. Occasionally you will see students and the general public, coach, Julie Benker, a graduate an ambitious individual of the and which two measly, piddly herselffrom Union had to come in male species riding the bike or hours where the rooms would be and instruct the men to leave. using the stainnaster, or an out- \closed\ to general students so This, my friends is where the fun .going female braving the harsh teams could use the facilities. begins. As the women of the swim conditions of the weight rooms to Interestingly enough, the foot- team filtered into the room, com- get in a few reps, but this is, I ball players seem to have no ments could be heard such as \get mind. you, a very uncommon trouble coming into the weight the chicks out!\ that were oh so sight. Going into these men-laden room up to four times a week to pleasant to hear. Finally when the rooms and trying to us·e the equip- work out, kicking everyone out majority of men had left but five ment is always difficult. Other IN THEIR OFF SEASON. very determined football players in than being gawked at like some- Well, fortunately for the dedi- the comer on the incline bench, I one doing a naked Nott run in the cated lifters, the swim team only heard another interesting comment: middle of the afternoon, you takes part in this, ritual while we \Oh my God, this room is full of know ti1at you are invading what are IN SEASON. Unfortu- chicks!\ Althougl1 I have to admit, is apparently considered \the nately, even after years of this I am not sure whether this comment men's territory'' and the whole procedure, the same thing was out of disgust, like the fanner scene can become very uncom- happenes every year: the men of comment, or because he was im- fortable. the weight rooms freak out. The pressed. h1deed it must have been This is where I come in. I am pumped-up men are never very an impressive sight, or, at the very ;, Bookstore Manager Responds to Last W e~k' s Opinion To the Editor, It has been some time since we have seen a Bookstore-is-a- rip-off piece, mid we always . welcome the opportunity to edu- cate the College community about the textbook busines·s. TI1e problem we have with Tony Lavecchia6s editorial of Janu.:. ary 12th are the faulty premises about the Bookstore in general and the used-book business spe- cifically. First: for reasons of space, used books when bought back from our students are placed on our book department shelves immediately-not to be resold, but to he temporarily held until they can be sorted and processed. Half the text depart- ment is used to store books tl1at we btJy at half of the new price for resale the next tenn, and to be sold at 75% of the new price, and half of the department is used to store books purchased for the used book companies. TI1e psychology study guide example from which Tony gen- eralized his whole argument suggests-that we pay fractional prices for any bought-back book and use all titles the following tenu. False: we pay half-price for any books that will be used at Union the followingtenn, and for which we do not have suffi- cient quantities on hand. If we are not using a title the follow- ing term, or do not have a req- uisition for it in time, we pay the student the standard price listed in the used book price guide ( updated every tenn) used by all col1eges and universities. These prices range anywhere from 10% to 30% of the original price of the book. This is done as a service to students on all cam- puses that deal in the buying and selling of used books. Those campuses conduct their buys with the same premise as indi- cated above. When buying back textbooks to be used the following tenn, some colleges pay only one half of the used textbook price if the textbook is purchased used, whereas we pay half of the new price regardless of whether or not the textbook was purchased new or used. And by the way, we have no monopoly-there are l.iterally dozens of bookstores-. major chains, independents, and other college bookstores within a ten mile radius of Union. You will find our textb'ook prices are on par or less than other stores. The book business is compli- cated, labor-intensive, and very costly. It requires hundreds of hours to close out one tenn's un- sold and bought-back books while processing the upcoming . term's. We are very proud of our textbook staff: they ate experi- enced, professional and above all ethical; they know the ins and outs of the textbook businc;:ss and they always manage to have it all ready for the first day of every term. We hope that all students who feel that the buyback is a rip off will take these facts into con- sideration. Or, at least voice your questions and concerns to the management before jumping to conclusions. Elias S.. Majlaton Manager The College Bookstore least, unusual: 20 women in tile weight room, pumping their braii1s out. Although we were performing this weight-lifting ritual a bit differently, no lamaze- like breathing or gut-wrenching groans and shrieks (except on oc- casion), we were, nonetheless, do- ing it! Then came more comments from the football players: \If you were really dedi- cated, why don't you come at 6 :30 in tl1e moming like the rest ofus? Well, to that comment all I have to say is either the person was not really in the weight room at that time, or is just plain igno- rant. You see, the Union Swim Team WAS in fact in the gym at 7:00a.m. that very moming, only we were too busy swimming to invade the men at work! In fact, will hardly ever find a football player or hockey player coming to root on the Swim Team. Do not let me b~ misunder- stood: the point of this lettter is not to complain about the low at- tendance of hockey or football players at our meets. We get enough fan attendance from good friends and even professors that come to watch. Hell, even the President of this lovely institution comes once or twice a season to our most challenging meets to in- foml us ever so nicely that our tums suck! I mean, didn't you know President Hull was an All- American swimmer himself (NOT!) AND was the coach of a prestigious team 'J (NOT!) That must explain his VAST knowlege of swimming (What- \The point here really is merely to suggest that next time the Union Swim Team comes in to use the weight room, perhaps, instead of gawking and making comments, you might want to cheer us on! Show a little school spirit!\ we are there not only every day Monday through Saturday work- ing out, but we are there 2-3 mornings a week for double ses- sions, and yes, believe it or not, we work out in the weight room twice a week (oh no, not that!). This is not even including meets that are scheduled almost every wednesday and every saturday in January, btlt I KNOW the foot- ball players would not know that fact. You see, even though on any given game date you wil1 find swimmers at a football or hockey game cheering on the teams, you ever!). The point here really, is merely to suggest that next time the Union Swim Team comes in to use the weight room, perhaps instead of gawking and making comments, you might want to cheer us on! Show a little school spirit! After all, we are yotJr fel- low students and we deserve the room just as much as you! Hell, maybe even more, if you take a look at our records from the past few years! But then again, you probably don't even know what our record is now, do you? Support Swimming Dear Sports Editor, We in the swimming program take your comment \swimming is swimming\ is last week's basketball article to mean swimming is winning as usual. Both the men's and women's team stake their 5 and 1 dual meet records into a meet at home vs. Middlebury at 2 p.m. Join us for senior recognition day. Thank you for your support. Sincerely, Susan Bassett Head Men's and Women's Swimming and Diving Coach CROSSTALK! ij 1 Absolut Union: Is it Time to Tum Off the Taps? Wednesday, January 25 7 PM at Chet's

January 19, 1995, page 12 OPINIONS Kelly's A Horrible Tragedy- a student's perspective On Thursday, January 12th, I went with a couple a friends to Kelly's tavem, a frequent hang- out of many Union students. We have been going to Kelly's a couple of times a week for a year or so and our visits became pleas- antly tranquil. It is less. than a block from and we walked there with little consideration. What happened the night of Jan. 12th. however. W.:: lcli Kelly's at '12JO. At ~:IS. a 1nan anned with a semi- automatic rifle sprayed I Grounds in front of the tavem. Vito Masi. 23. (i.e. college aged) a regular at Kelly's and acquaintance of ours. was killed instantly. Jill Schoonmaker. a Union secretary. was fortunate to survive the four bullets that hit her. Both victims, it seems. were in the wrong place at the wrong time. The police suspect that some- thing happened inside of Kelly's earlier that night to provoke the shooting- and yet no one who was there remembers anything signifi- cant happening. A second police theory holds that it was simply a random act of violence. Know- ing Vito Masi, and knowing Kelly's, th.is second hypothesis seems to hold the most water. Either way. it is an frighteJ:ting situation. Those of Its who were at Kelly's that night and my neigh- bors in the surrounding block had a tremendous case of the what if' the next day. What if we had stayed longer and left when Vito Masi did? What if we were walk- ing home from campus at 2: 15? What if Jill Schoonmaker- the epitome of being in the wrong place- was killed in the cross-fire? and what if there were 5 or 6 Jill Schoonmaker simply going to their cars? What if it was simply a random act of violence? Would Dutch- You Do Like No Else Would Do It by Sarah Ruth Evans Opinions Editor Only four weeks into the new year :md I have already broken Ill\ Nc\\ Year's Resolution. I s~nrc to myself that this tenn I would lind a llC\\ target for my bitching. Last week, I assigned someone to bash the bookstore. After all I was rather upset when I noticed that the manufacture listed my Anthropology book at $11 .00. yet the bookstore was charging $11.95. In an effort not to slow the checkout line down I did not make a big hassel. I mean 95 cents is not really a big deal. but it is the entire principal be- hind it. Old habits die hard, and I can not let Dinning Services get away unnoticed. Dinning Services you missed the point, when I sug- gested you need competition. First things first, the new signs are cheesy. You are not competing with McDonalds, so don't waste our money trying. Instead of wasting all that money on new signs and fancy suggestion sta- tionary, why don't you charge us Jess for our meal plan. TI1e Value Meals are a nice touch, but why the expensive signs. TI1ey are not asthetically pleasing and they flllther destroy the atmosphere of Dutch. Next things next. Waming all students, the turkey in the Skellar is disgusting, do not eat it. Din- ning Services do not try to save money by ruining our health with bad meat. instead stop purchas- ing those cheesy signs and buy a higher quality meats. Again Ire- tum to the topic of atmosphere. Who implemented the no smok- ing policy in the Skellar, the haze of cigarette smoke was one of its channs? Was it the city and can sue them? I say, Union is a cam- pus of smokers and we should be able to smoke where ever we want, just like we should be able to use our property however we want. Since I am on a bitching ram- page, what's up with the lights illumitating the top of the Nott, just like G.E. brightens down- town Schenectady. Ifwe can af- ford to light the top of the Nott, we should be able to put a light on the American flag at night or take it down, as the law dictates. I hope that I have accomplished my goal of offending everyone. All Letters To The Editor Must Be Submitted by Monday SPM, The Week Of Publication On High Density Disk. No Exceptions! Gepetto's be safe? Rupsi's? My apartment? The possibility of such random violence might lead a person to several solutions. f,irst, you could assume a Carpe Diem .atti- tude and begin living in a bubble of immediate self-fulfillmeHt. This, however, is only a roman- tic escape, not a solution. A sec- ond response would be oBc of iso- lation. i.e.- \TI1at'sSchenectady's problem. I go to UnionCollege.\ Another fallacy, as no such clear distinction exists. Creating a Union vs. the world attitude is only another form of denial, cle~rly' miscm1ceived (as evident by the gun point robbery, the snuggler, and the aU too frequent campus thefts). TI1e only viable solution is to see ourselves as integral parts of our community- whether home .in White Plains or at school in Schenectady. As integral parts of our community, we have a respon- sibility to act, to help, to get in- volved. to change. If Vito Masi died as. the result of a random act ofhatred, then his murderer must have somewhere learned enough hate to pull a semi-automatic rifle and fire ten rounds into an unsus- pectillg and normally peaceful neighborhood~ our neighbor- hood. It is this hate that we must no longer ignore as somebody else's problem. We must begin in our own lives to find the hate that we hold and get rid of it. We must help those around us to get rid of theirs. We must teach our chil- dren and our neighbors that love is the .primary emotion. We must help. We must teach. We must reach out. We Must remember Vito Masi and those who held similar fates. We must. lt is the only way. Important Notice to Students From The Bicentennial Committee Planning Founders Weekend The Committee recently at- tempted to send to each full-time students a personal invitation to the Bicentennial Founders Day Convocation and the Bicentennial Gala, both occurring on Saturday, February 25, 1995. Owing to cir- cumstances beyond our control, it appears that a few students have not received an invitation . If you did not receive an invitation, please contact the Bicentennial Office at 388-6615 and one will be sent. No reply is necessary if you wish to attend the Convocation; seating will be first come, first served, with overflowed seating and a remote telecast in the Col- lege Center if necessary. How- ever, if you wish to attend the Bicentennial Gala you must re- quest tickets, either by using the reply card and envelope enclosed with the invitation or by sending a note to the Bicentennial Office in the Administration Building. The stated deadline for replies was January 16th; however, since many invitations were received later than we intended due to problems in the maiboom, we are extending the deadline to January 30th. Tickets will then be distrib- uted early in February to those who have requested them, with a maximum of two tickets per stu- dents. It is essential that you re- quest tickets if you plan to come to the Gala; the Committee can- not plan effectlively without knowing how many people to expect. The Bicentennial Gala i the Field House will feature dancing to The Duke Ellington Orchestra; there will also be music provided by disc jockeys. Food and non- alcoholic beverages will be served free of charge; there will be a cash bar for alcoholic drinks. The Gala begins at 7:30P.M. At 8:00 P.M. there will be a fifty minute television broadcast origi- nating live from Hale House and featuring taped highlights of the day's events. Although primarily intended as a simulcast to alumni clubs around the country, it will also be possible to watch it in the Field House duringthe Gala. The Committee hops that ev- eryone will come to both the Con- vocation and the Gala to celebrate Union's 200th birthday. Ll<l> Rush Hangover Helper Hot Food, Cold Beverages, and Good Company Saturday, Ja.nuary 21 Breakfast is Served at 11:30 AM All Are Welcome



As a starting note. this arlicle was not writ- ten to put down or belittle Union College and its prdctices The purpose of this article is to bring an a\\arcncss to the student body of · how money is collected and reim csted by the s(hooL Its sole purpose is inf;;mralll'c and judgments arc to be made b~ what the reader pcrcci\TS As a waming. many figures and numbers that .arc presented b~ this article may seem. at times. confusing or hard to uilder- stand. As a request. try not to pass judgment on something that is unclear. For the most part. the article as a whole is generally under- standable. so. use the charts and graphs as easy references to help you gather the infor- mation easier. All of the infonnation used in this study was obtained from Vice-President Blake. the vice-president of Finance. In speaking with her. I receiYed a strong sense that she wants Union College to be moving up. She made it dear that it is the goal of President Hull and all his staff. to have Union College in the Top 25 -Best Colleges in the nation. While currently in :the Top 3 5, she pointed out that Union. as small of a school as it is. has moved up dra- matically over the years and has gone \'ery far considering its resources and size. Blake said that the main reason for this is the endow- ment. She emphasizes thatthe endowment is a big measure of a college's strength because it measures the interest alumni take in the col- Intercollegiate Athletics 0.20% Other Sources 1.20% Private Gifts .State .Grants and Contracts 0.40% Federal Grants and Contracts 1.90% lege by alumni. The larger the endowment the larger the income and thus less pressure on the budget. In 1993 Union College had an Endowment of$132A26,000. This number put the school at a ranking of 122nd out of -l37. The top three Endowments were recorded by Han·ard at o\·er$5.5 billion and Princeton and Yale. both oYer $3 billion. Taking this into consideration. it is a great surprise to see Union in the Top 35 Best Colleges in the na- tion and close to those schools with consid- erably large resources. So why does Union cost so much? One reason. Vice-President Blake e:\-plaincd is that when prospectins come to Union College. they enjoy the beautiful buildings and scen- ery and as a whole like what they see. To maintain that lenl of quality the College needs money. A second reason for the high price tag is the issue m·cr financial aid. Basi- cally. Vice-President Blake explained to me that many students that apply to Union are exceptional and have tremendous ability to excel at an institute of higher learning like Union. Unfortunately many ofthese students don't ha,·e the fmancial clout to attend Union under full tuition. So basically tuition is higher because those who can afford to pay full tuo ition arc partly paying for those who can't. Ne,·ertheless. the purpose of this article is informatiYe. so please continue reading and trY to answer for ,·ourself where the moncv .. . . goes. Total Re\·enue In the bicentennial year of 1994. Union Col- lege collected a total sum re,;cnue of _$63.385.273. The largest contributor to this sum was, with no surprise. Tuition and Fees which brought in$37.966.542 (almost 60(X.}of total reyenue in 199-t Three other major con• tributors were: l) Auxiliary Enterprises. which brought in $11.312.615 (almost 18%.). 2) Pri- Yate Gifts. Grants and Bequests. which brought in $6A..J9.830 (more than 10%.). 3) and Endowment Income. which brought in $5,036.117 (almost 8%.). The remaining $2.620.169 (4.1(%) was col- lected from fi\'C other sources: l) Federal Grants and Contracts($1.218.001 or 1.9%.). 2) Other Sources ($735 .458 or 1.2(%)3) New York State Appropriation ($289,784 or 0.5(%) ..J.) State Grants and Contrncts ($280.960 orO A%•) 5) and Intercollegiate Sports.($95.966 or0.2 4 X.). Thus nine sources comprised the total re\'- Total Revenue $63,385,273 Tuition and Fees -<411~ 59.90% enue of Union College in 199-1-. One other obseiYation that bears mention is that of Union's Total ReYenue in I 994 to that of 198-J. As shown in the graph Union College reyenue has almost doubled from $33.2-1-8.90-J to $63.385.273. This means that in 190 years ofits history up untill98..J.. Union College had managed to reach the point of o\·er $30 million in revenues per year to fi- nance it· s expenses. That number almost doubled lO years later. One could make the argument that maybe Union· s expenses JiaYc gotten too high. Many may think that all the new reyenue came from a rise in tuition oyer the last I 0 years. That argument is partly true as the rcYCnue from Tuition and Fees rose 81.8%. from $19.756,775 to $35.910,980. Other simpler arguments such as the role of Macroeconomic factors. like inflation, are also ,·ery likely to ha\.·e caused such rises as well. There are many belierable solutior · ·• questions but they involYe highly research and time. Time that many i... uv• au .,A us don't have. One ,·ery simple analysis can be done on the rising a11d falling of all the sources ofrcv- enuesince 198~. Thiswaywe can seewhich sources of reYenuc ha\·e increased the most in the past 10 years. In Chart** we can sec that the largest increase in revenue over the last ten years came from State Grants and Contmcts (259.6%,). Other sources such as Private Gifts. Grants and Beq1,1ests ro~edra­ matically as well. (l63.l'Y..). Consider t,he fact that increasing your input ofre\:enue by over 160%. when dealing with millions of dollars is much more impressive than a 259.6% increase when dealing with thousands. With that h .•.._· . ,., /·\>~ ·... •, \---- · .. ··J·O::, .. I· · .. · ~ t'~ ~ ' ~- ; ~ ' : -~- .. : .. - i· ~./~~:~ ''< :, : '+:t.r;<io•:\,~~tfi$: •. '·· by Billy Sh1lkos · 'J6 S~-pes Editor mind. Tuition and Fees which makes up al- most 60%, of all total revenue increased by over 81.1 % •. This might not seem like a large number to some people. but consider the facts that were are only dealing with a lO year pe- riod out of 200 years. and that a jump in this category that is dealing with tens of millions of dollars is huge. So when studying these numbers don't just look at the percentage change over the years. Be sure to establish the range of money your dealing with in a certain category and then look at the percent- age chalige and make a judgment. be answered in ·the next section. C. Breakdown ofRclenue Although the information above and the latter gh· e us a vaguely better understanding of the flow of money at Union. many of you will still find yourselves eagerto learn more about these revenue sources and expendi- ture areas which. for the most part (60'Yc• of revenue= 111ition andfees) aU ocate and rein- vest our money into producing and improv- ing the institute of higher learning at which we attend. In fact these larger sources and ·group six s for exami ·groupnarr · grouptogc fitthatapp .. inno way live IDO\\e to make u material e. thebreakd enue follm• Three oft ·not be bru Total Expenditure In the year of 1994. Union College·s expenditures totaled $6l.l2.J.669. Thelargestarcaofex- penditure in 199+ was Instructional and Departmental Research which totaled $15.491 A06.1n addition to this. there were four other major areas of expenditure. Student Aid ($10.811.882 or 1'8%.). E:\.-penditures on Auxilial}· Enterpriscs($7. 949.008 or 13%). Employee Benefits ($7.517.945 or 12'X,). and Institu- tional Support ($6.000.0 17 or 10%). Other smaller areas of e:\-penditure ''\ere Operation and Maintenance of Plant ($3.875.606 or 6'%). Aca- demic Support{$3.071.330 or 5%). Student Sen·ices ($2.154.387 or -+%). Intercollegiate Athletics ( 1.388.426 or 3%). Mandatory Transfers for Principal and Interest ($1.929.700 orr+%). Principals and Interest of Auxiliary Enterprises ($507A26 or 1%.) and Sponsored Research and Programs ($427.500 or 1%). Thus Union College. in 199-1-. generally spent it's reycnue in 12 different areas. One other obsen·ation that bears mention. as in total re,·enue. is the total expenditure of Union College since 1984. In the Chart la- beled Union College Expenditure Past I 0 Years the Total Expenditure of the College from 1984 to 1994 has. not swprisingly, more than doubled from $30.941.326 to $61. 12.J.669. The Rev·enues and Expenditures of'Union. ~ :\Qt.:: Th.: ligur.:s b.:lo\\ dQ not T\!pr.:s.:nl •th.: r.:..:onJs of R~v.:nu.:s and th.: format of financial >~lat.!m.:n~ o\'.:r th.: y.:ars. only th.: ..:at.:g()n.:s that ro Revenue Tuition and Fees Endowment Income New York State Appropriation Federal Grants and Contracts State Grants and Contracts Private Gifts, Grants and Bequests Other Sources Intercollegiate Sports Auxiliary Enterprises Total Revenue Expenditure 1984 $19,759,775 $4,156,984 $850,200 $587,208 $78, 13) $2,450i818 $678,049 $34,012 $4,656,728 $33,24'8,904 1984 Expenditures and Mandatory Transfers: 1 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ ~ ... $ 1 Instructional and Departmental Research $9,325,138 $ Sponsored Research and Programs $648,833 $ Student Services $1,152,850 $ Opertation and Maitenance of Plant $2,440,\765 $ Employee Benefits $2,919,516 $ Institutional SupPort $3,18l,416 $ Student Aid $3,081,472 $ Intercollegiate and Intramural Athletics $781,223 $ Auxili.ary Enterprises: Expenditures Mandatory Transfers- Debt Total Expenditure $4,117,705 $352, l33 $30,941.326 $ $ Many reasons can be used to explain this rise: i.e. renoYations on campus. new build- ings, wanting to imprm·e the image of the College and other categories of expenditure that many of us could not just think of off the top of our heads. Many students may find e:\-penditures on such categories unnecessary and thus costly to their parents or their own wallets. Some of your questions about what these possible unnecessary categories will areas of reYenue and expenditure arc only gcnerali:t.cd categories that are used to group together certain sub-sources and areas. or ·'subcategories.\ that can be linked together by a common description. These .. subcatego- ries.'' as this article will refer to them. are the actual sources and destinations of money. while the large categories are for categorical purposes and convenience. For example. un- der re\'enue. the large group categorized as Auxiliary Enterprises is really only used to cause they· The three a tion- $289. -$280.960 $95.966.) Tuition am In 199-1-. i ,fees was$: :two subcat ifces from: •which mad< Union College Revenue - Past 1 0 Years $70,000;000 $60,000,000 $70,000,0 $60,000,0 $50,000,0 $40,000,000 +-~-----===---=--------------- 1984 ~ $33,248,904 $40,000,0 $30,000,0 1994 - $63,385,273 $30,000,000 $20,000,000 --~--~ ·------~ ---~~~ ---~--~---- Nearly Doubled jn 1 0 Years $10;000,000 ;10,000,01 $0 +-~···· I - t ~ j~· ~~t- -~··1··- --j-·--~-+--·-1 1 2 a 4 s a 1 a 9 to ,, 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1e!n 1992 1993 1994

. . fLU.' · .. '!· · group six smaller subcategories together. Also 'for example. under expenditure. the large ·group named Institutional Support is used to ate and Continuing Studies which made Up l 0'% ofthe whole. the · group together 28 different subcategories that Tit that apparent description. (NOTE)- This is .. in no way intended to be a devious ordecep- more :tivc mo\'e by the College. It is only intended Endowment Income to make understanding and recording such of material easier. With that cleared up here is rein- the breakdo\\n ofthe large categorizes ofrev- enue followed by expenditure in 199-1-. (N01E- Three of the nine sources of re,·enue Could ·not be broken-down into subcategories be- In 199-l. Total revenue from Endowment Income was $5.036.117. This Total was made is made up of 11 different categories. The sub- categories in this section are distributed money such that all the money donated to them is pooled together. then invested and the income is separated amongst the groups. They are. from largest to smallest: 1) Unre- stricted made up 29.-I:'Yc,ofthe whole. 2) Pro- of'Union College in the past 10 years of R~v.:nues and Expens..:s in Comp!.:t.: fonn. Du..: to th~ chang.: in the .:atl!gon.:s that r.:maih<!d .:onstant o\·.:r th.e pas( ten y.:ars \\ .:r.: 1984 $19,75€>,775 $4,156,984 $850,200 $587,208 $78, 1]) $2,450)818 $678,049 $34,012 $4,656,728 $33,248,904 1984 $9,325,138 $648,833 $1,152,850 $2,440,q65 $2,919,516 $3,181,416 $3,081,472 $781,223 $4,117,705 $352,133 $30,941,326 1994 $37,966,542 $5,036,117 $289,784 $1,218,001 $200,900 $6,449,83) $735,458 $95,966 $11,312,615 $63,385,273 1994 $15,491,406 $427,500 $2,154,387 $3,875,606 $7,517,945 $6,000,017 $10,811,882 $1,388,426 $7,949,008 $507,462 $61,124,669 %Change UP · 81.2% UP- 21.1% DOWN- 65.9% UP- 107.4% UP- 259.6% UP- 163.1% UP- 8.5% UP- 182.2% UP· 142.9% UP- 90.6% %Change UP· 66.1% DOWN- 34.1% UP- 86.9% UP· 58.2% UP -157.5% UP- 88.6% UP- 250.9% ·UP - 77.7% - UP- 93% UP- 44.1% UP- 97.5% fessorships which made up 29.1%, ofthewhole, 3)Student Aid made up 23 .+%, of the whole. -H Buildings and Grounds which made up 5%, of the whole. 5) Department which made up -1-%; of the whole. 6) Income From Irrevocable Fund., in Trust- Winters .. also -1-'X,, 7) Wold, a separate invest- ment fund were the income that inYestment is given to profes- sorships of Geology, was 2%, of the whole. 8) Library made 1.2%, of the whole (that's a lot of fees). 9) Income Fromlrre- vocah/e Funds in Trust -llu/1- Smith which made 0.7{X, ·ofthe whole. 1 O·) Other also made up . 7%. and 11) Lectureships made up 0.5% ofthewhole. Federal Grants and Contr.acts Revenue from this category made up 1.9% of Total re\'enue ($ l.218.00l)andcanbebroken do\\ n into fiye different subcat- egories. They are: l) The Pel/ Grants, (similar to go\·emment programs that giYe money for research and programs) equal- ing ~I%. 2) Educational Op- portunity Grants equaling 20%. 3) Sponsored Research and Programs equaling 16% . ~) Indirect Cost RecOl'ery equaling 13%. This means that only or the cause they were made up by only one source. The three are I) New York State Appropria- tion- $289.78-1- 2) State Grants and Contracts - $280.960 and 3) Intercollegiate Athletics- $95 .. 966.) Tuition and Fees the goYemment giYes money to professors to do research .. but the professors use the school's buildings .. heat, food .. lighting .. etc. so the government pays the school for those costs. Finally. 5) College Work Stuc(v equal- ing 10%. un- as to In 199-1- .. the total rC\ enue from Tuition and .fees was $37.966.5-1-2. This is broken up into . two subcategories of rennue. Tuition and ifces from: I) L'ndergraduate Day Sehoul ·which made up 90%, of the total and 2) Gradu- Pri,·ate Gifts, Grants and Beque~1s Total Revenue from this category in I 99-1- equaled $6..-1-~9.830 or 10.2%, of the whole Notice that this category since 198~ ($2A50.818) has risen by l63.I'Yc,. This is at- Union College Expenditure - Past 1 0 Years $70,000,000 ---~---~-- -~----------··-- $60,000,000 $50,000,000 $40,000,000 $30,000,000 ~20,000,000 •1 0,000,000 $0 1-. ~ _.._ ·- t .-. -·- t - - -t . ·-+. 1 2 3 4 5. ' . 6 7 8 9 1 0 11 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 o, . ... . . . . tributed to continuing strong support of the Union College Alumni. This category was broken-down into four subcategories: I) Un- restricted G~fts, Grants and Bequests, which are those donations given to the school in general and with no specified branch of do- nation .. made Up 77% .. 2) Sponsored Re- search and Programs making up 1-1-% . 3) Restricted Gifts, which are those that are given to a certain department or purpose, made up 6'X,, and ..J) Annual Restricted Scholarships and Prizes making up 3% of the whole. Other Sources This category does not give us a lot to cheer about and is rather trivial but will nev- ertheless be addressed. Other Sources brought in 1.2% of the whole. Other Sources. lm1ructional and De1•artrnentaJ Resean:h ln 199-t the total expenditure on this cat- egory was $15A91 A06. (25%of all expendi- tures in 199-t ). This can be broken down into two subcategories I) Undergraduate Da~' Schooiiitaking up 80'~;. and 2) Graduate and Continuing Studies recei\ cd 20% of the total giYen to lnstmctional and Departmental Re- search. One point to notice is that the ratio between the rc\ cnuc rccci\cd fom1 Under- grJduate ProgrJnlS and GrJduatc Programs is 8.6 to l ($3..J,027 .502 to $3. 939.0-l-0) while the expenditure on U ndergraduatc Progrdffis com- pared to Graduate programs is half as low at -I- to I ($12.432.1-1-~ to $3 .. 059 .. 262). Sponsored Research and Programs Total expenditure in this area equaled $~27,500 in 199-1-. This area can be broken down into three subcategories: 1) Private Sponsors received 56% of the money spent on Sponsored Research.and Programs, 2) Federal Government received 37% of the whole. and 3) New York State was gh\en 7% of the whole. Academic Support In 199-L $3:071.330 was deYoted to Aca- demic Support. This category can be broken down into six subcategories: 1) The most dominant area, monetarily, under Academic Support was the Library. In the past year it received 59% of all expenditure in this area. 2) Academic Computing, which is all the tech- Total Expenditure $61,124,669 Principal and Interest Instructional and Departmental Research Expenditures 1 1M Mandatory Transfers for 0 Principal and Interest 13 % 3% Intercollegiate Athletics 4% j/\25% Sponsored Research and Programs 1% _t:,caae!m ic Support 5% 18% and Maitenance of Plant 6% can be broken down into three subcatego- ries: I) Current Fund In\\estment made up 6l'X. of Other Sources, 2) Miscellaneous made up 3 7% ofthe whole (Take a \Vild guess, because I have no idea.) and 3) Rents which made up 2%,. Auxiliary Enterprises Next to Tuition and Fees. this category brought in the most revenue of any other. with a total of 17.8% of Total Re,·enue in 199-1-. It can be broken down into 5 subcat- egories of rennue: l) Dining Sen· ices brought in 38% of the total Auxiliary Enter- prises. 2) Residence Halls chipped in 35% of the whole. 3) Bookstore raked in 18%, of total Attxiliary Enterprises Revenue. -1-) Tele- communications brought inS% ofthewhole. This may come as a smprise to see Residence Halls bringing in more than thfee times as much as Telecommunications. Finally, 5) Achilles Rink brought in 1% of Total ReY- cnue. Breakdown of ExtM!nditures and MandatOQ' Tran~1ers In 199-1- there were twelve large categories of e:>..Jlenditure. In this breakdown of ex1Jen- diture .. three categories were made up by one area so there is no need to break them down. I) Opemtions and Maintenance of Physical Plant- $3.875,606 2) Intercollegiate Athletics - $1,388.-1-26 3) Mandaton· Transfers - $1.929.700. no logy in the computer center. receiYed 23% of the e~:penditure. 3) The Associate Dean· s Office received ll% of the whole, -1-) Instruc- tional Technology. all the equipment such as VCRs. televisions and slides used by profes- sors and students in class .. got 3%. 5) Fac- ulty Research and Development was given 2%. and 6) Faculty Travel was given 2%. Student Sen·ices This category includes the main offices of attention and sen·icc for students on cam- pus. Student Services received $2.15-1-, 387 of financial attention in 199-1-. This number can be broken down into nine subcategories: l) The Admission's Office was giyen most of the support with -1-7% in 199-1-, 2) The Resi- dence Life Office received 11'% . 3) The Regist:nrr's Office was given 10%. ~) The Fi- nancial Aid Office got 7'X, . 5) Health Ser- ,·ices was provided with 7% as well. 6) The Career DeYelopment Office received a sum of 6%, 7) Student Activities was given 5%, 8) The Counseling Office received -1-%, and 9) The Orientation Program received 3% of the whole in 199-1-. ln~1itutional SUJlJJOrt- Not shown as graJlh This category recei\·ed.$6.00.0 17 offinan- cial attention in 1994. and can be broken dm\ n into 28 different categories: 1) College Rela- tionsOffice-28.2%. 2)Finance0ffice-l2.5% Continued tm next pllge I ·I . ' .. .. ..• . \.

- t January 19, 1995, page 16 Where Is the Money Going? Continued from previous page , 3)CampusSecurity-10%, 4}Computer Services- 8.9% 5) President's Office- 7.50Jo , 6) Insurance- 5.76%, 7) Campus Life- 2 .6% , 8) Dean of Students Office- 2.6%, 9) Publications- 2.5%, lO}AcademicAf- fairs Office- 2.2%. 11) Recmiting, which is the recruiting of faculty and professors - I. 9%, 12) Gifts in Kind - 1.8% , l3) General Financial Expense- 1.6%, 14) Bicentennial Committee- 1.5%, 15) Dues and Official Functions- 1.5%, 16) Interest Expense- Short Tenn- 1.4%, 17) Campus Mai I Ser- vice- 1.2%, 18) Miscellaneous Expense- Bond Issue- I .I% , 19) President's Discre- tionary Fund- I%. 20) Legal Fees- 0.8%. 21) Commencement- 0. 7%, 22) Audit Ex- pense- 0. 7%. 23) President's Residence- 0.5° 1 o. 24) Trustees- 0.4%. 25) Lectures ;md Conce11s- 0.4%. 26) Miscellaneous- (U6%. 27) Union College Press- 0. 17%. 28) President's Commission on Status of Women- 0.04%. Student Aid The subcategories under Stu- dent Aid received $10,811,822 in 1994. One important note is that this category has increased by over 251% since 1984 when it was $3,081,472. This can be correlated with the argument that Union gives out large amoui1ts of Financial Aid to students every year, T11is can be broken down into nine different categories were the top two command almost 84% of the money: I) ( 'ol/ege Scholarships control almost three quatiers of the money as they get 70.9% of the expenditure on Student Aid. 2) En- dowed Scholarships command the se.c- ond most financially supported position with 13% of the expenditure. 3) Pel/ Granls received 4.5%, 4) College Work ,)'tw~v was given 3.9%, for those students on the program. 5) h'ducational Oppor- llmi~v ( iranls received 3%. 6) Higher Hdu- (·ation Opportunity Programs- 2 .l %, 7) Annual ,)'cholarship.,· were given I .8% . 8) Foreign Studems Assist am:<: was given 0.6% . and 9) 0.2%, was given out for Pri:es. Employee Benefits Similarly to Student Aid, Em- ployee Benefits has rises 157.5% since 1984. from $2,919,516 to $7,517,945. This category was dominated by three m·ajor areas of expenditure ahd can be broken down into 15 different categories. I} An- nuities and Pension commanded 30A% of the expendihire. 2) Health Insurance ran a close second when it received27.8%, of expenditure on Employee Benefits. 3)So- cial Securityreceived a large 23.7% of the financial attention. TI1e remaining areas of expenditure were minimal as they all re- ceived bdow 6%. 4) Faculty/Staff ('bildren 's S'cholarships- Union, received 5,6%, 5)N.Y..\'. WorkersCompensation- 5%, 6) Fac1tfty/Stq[f Children'.\. ,)'cholar- ships- Other- 5%, 7)Denlallnsurance- 2.4%($179449), .8) Group Disability- 1.4%, 9) N. Y. S. l lnemployment Insurance- I .2%, I 0) Benefit.\· Administration and ( 'onsulf- ing- 1.2%. I I) Group Disahili(v- 0.87%, I 2) N. Y.S. !Jisahi!ity Insurance - 0.63%. .13) College Picnic and J~'mployee Rec.:og• nitwn- 0.14%, 14) Deferred Vacatums is uaintance by Tracy Miller For the past few years. the ge.n- eral public has been bombarded with media conceming date and acquaintance rape. So. what's the big deal? Why all the hoopla over a subject that we are sick of .hearing about? T11e reason is this, date and ac- quaintance rapes have the lowest percent- age of repm1ing (out of the actual arnmmt of rapes committed) compared to any other crime. Many victims think that no one wi H believe them or they blame thelll.selves for what happened. Of all the emotions that a rape victim experiences. there is proi:Jably not one that wouldn't want to erase that horrible memory from their mind. For me and the millions of other women wlto are also victims of date or acquaintance rape, everyday is a reminder of our status of Rape Victim. In 1990, the National Victim Cen- ter conducted a survey of 4,000 raped women to find the nature of the relation• ships of the victim and her attacker. Sllock- ingly. victims knew their attackers in almost 80% of all the cases. TI1is observationre- jects the common idea that the majority of rapes are like those represented on televi- sion where the pretty young women walks down the dark alley after work late one 11ight and gets attacked by some large vagrant with a knife. This means that the majority of attackers are familiar to us such as boy- friends, husbands, co-workers, or the boys next door. Because most rapists are acquain- tances in some way, most rapes go unre- ported. TI1e stakes for a reporting acquain· tance rape victim are high. Often times they are too scared to report and when and if they do, the likelihood that a prosecutor will take the case is close to nil. Acquain~ tance rape also divides friendships \When people take sides. So, it is very easy for atl acquaintance rape victim to become disillu- sioned and not report it for her own emo- tional safety. Sociologists G. David Johnson, Gloria J. Palileo, and Nonna B. Gray also conducted a survey oftheir own in 1991 at the University of South Alabama. Titis study assessed the prevalence of rape atlC:i sexual assault on campus and the cir~um­ stances surrounding it. Each questio11aire was formatted to fit the sex of the person surveyed. Johnson, et al. also questioned female respondents for how many say no to sex when they really mean yes. The numbers were startling. Thirty-five per- cent said that they never say no when they mean yes aild 17% said that they seldom one didn't want to 'hook up' and did, most times there would be some congratula- toryremark later when the news has gone through the Union Grapevine. It would cause a lot of unrest and commotion if one were to find out that it was a forced Rape Victim's Relationship to Rapist 29% 30% 25% 20% 15%. 10% 5% 0% ..... Q) Ol c: co .... ..... en >'< w .._\0 0 c: co \'.o c: UJ co :J -bl:J: UJ :J ::r:: .... ..... Q) O..c: .... ..... Q) co ..c:U.. ..... 0. co Q) u.. ..... en do. This means that any time a man con- sents with a sober women to have sex and she says no, there is about a fifty-fifty chance that she really means yes. Now I ask of you, who would want to take the chance of having sex with another when it could be construed as rape? This just re- inforces the need for men and women to be clear about their desires and how far that they want each encounter to go. Now, the reason that I mentioned a sober consentual women is that accord- ing to New York State Law, it is illegal to have any type of sexual encounter with a\ woman under the influence of alcohol or drugs consenting or not. Unfortunately, this is vyhere the issue of acquaintance rape comes into play at Union College's cam- pus. Because our social life mainly centers itself around Greek events such as frater- nity/sorority parties that s~rve alcohol, it is very common for most \romantic\ en- counters to end up in regret of 'the morn- ing after.' This is where the issue of date rape crosses the fine line of a woman's re- gret and a woman's nightmare. Many times at Union, 'hooking up' 'is condoned and even encouraged by our peers. So even if I X !:1::'\0 \C c: c: ,!!;! cu.:= ·;:: > ..... 0 >m 0 ... r:o Cl) > ·p Cll Ci5 a: ... Cl) .£: ..... 0 Q) (.) c: .... co Q) ..... ..c: c: ..- co 0 :J c:r (.) <( encounter and not consentual at aU. From my experience of recover- ing and putting my life back together fol- lowing my rape, the worst part was the ut- ter solitude and despair that I felt. It has become very hard to come to tmst people again. Just when I needed support the most, it seemed as if the whole world had turned its back on me. My 'friends' were completely divided on the subject and~ seemed to avoid it when all I wanted to do was to talk about it. TI1en, there were also times when I just wanted to forget the whole thing ever happened and move on with mylife. Unfortunately, no matter how much I would like to and try to forget, I just can- not. Everyday since my attack has in- cluded a reaffinnation of tny status as Rape Victim. It is a brand that my heart and memorywill havetowearforever. lfonlyl could go back and change my actions that night (i.e. not drinking so much alcohol, not going home with this guy who l thought I knew enough, staying with my friends and sisters instead), my whole life woi.dd be completely different. lwOtlldnot have to live in constant fear and suspicion of every guy I meet. I would not have to the money paid to employees for those va- . cation days that were not used. An em- ployee of the college receives a; certain number of days offper year. If the. employee does not use (Ill of the vacation days, then her/she is compensated for not taking them. This category received - 0,06% 15) Wei/ness Program is as the name implies. It is a program set up by the college to help and educate employees about help. Pro- grams such as non-smoking, diet classes, etc. all fall under this category which re- ceived- 0.04%. Auxiliary Enterprises The final area of expenditure is Auxiliary Enterprises wltich received $7,949,008 in 1994. Auxiliary E:Npenditures can be broken dowH into six different cat- egori,es: I) Dining Services had 45% spent on them in 1994, 2) The Bookstore was also well funded as it received 24% of the whole expenditure. 3} Residence Life re- ceived 16%, 4) Telecommunications was supported with 10% of the expenditures. 5) Achilles Rink was second to last with 2.7%. degrade myself every time that I look in the mirror and I would not have to cry myself to sleep at night. Now I'm asking every man and woman who are reading this article to act responsibly. Women, I don'twant another person to have to experience this pain and Men, I wouldn't want the guilt on my shoul- ders that should (but seldom does) come along with date/acquaintance rape. If you have been raped please go get help. I am including a number that you can call where you can get help from a caring, open per- son (speaking from personal experience). If you ever are raped, go get help from the hospital immediately (call the number be- fore you go too, it's a 24 hour hotline) to make sure that your health is O.K. If you know someone who has been raped, be there for that person. The pain that she is dealing with is too much to handle all alone. Do not shut her out, give her an open ear and a shoulder to lean or cry on when things get too tough. If you know that you have raped somebody and are too frightened and embarrassed to do anything about it, please just remember it can and most likely will happen again if you don't get help for yourself. For Help 24 hours call Schenectady Rape Crisis Center (Part of Planned Parenthood) Hotline-346-2266 Office phone-3 7 4-53 53 Address: 414 Union Street Schenectady, NY 12305 SCOPES A Product of The Concotdiensis David Levine, Heather Reynolds Editors-in-c/lief Scopes Editor Contributors Photo Editor Copy Editor Bill Shakos Tracy Miller Carrie Wheeler Jodie Tesser Josh Haines Diana Sedita Front page photo by Josh Haines/TC Interested in Scopes? Call x5604

FEATURES The Erin M. O'Neil Show: When You Will Wish You Had Complimented Her Articles by Erin M. O'Neil Features Editor As my days here at The Con- cordien.~·is draw to a close, I of- ten ponder what my next move will be. How will I continue to tollch audiences across the nation without this award-winning college newspaper as my tool? This dilemma has been the cause of many a sleep- less night,. many hours of . therapy, and a whole bunch of soul-searching. But all this time the an- swer was right under my nose, written aU over my face. I guess I was just waiting for the right per- son to see it. Alex Shapiro (yeah, you know who he is- the Living editor) is the man who is going to (you have them in print) I AM What is Alex's part in all of GOING TO BE FAMOUS!!! this? He is my right-hand We're n0t talking WRUC TV (scratch that- I'tn a lefty), he is (if there was such a thing), we're my left hand man, my agent, my talking all the major networks: head writer, my publicist, every- ABC, NBC, CBS, FOX, MTV, thing except my executive pro- PBS ... you get the idea. Some- ducer (I already promised my fa- ..-------'-~ther that position). Alex. has the big network ties (his cousin works for Bar- bara Walters), and with his unique ability .to schmooze almost anyone .. ·I think we'll find a way in. Most importantly, if any- thing goes wrong (which of course it won't, but in . the rare event that it does) Alex will be the first per- I blame. Yep, I think we've much got it all fig- ured out. We're hoping to shoot a pilot sometime · s week and get it out to ,all the networks before L----------~----~-~someone else picks up on change my life. All right, it's not ex- actly how it sounds. We're not getting married or anything. Heck, we aren't even dating. We're going into business to- gether. We are going to have our own late-nigl1t talk show. Scoff if you will, even my own mother doesn't believe me (thanks again for the support Mom). Whoever said nothing good comes out of a drunken fra- ternity party was dead wrong. My future was one of the few things that came into focus at one of those parties. A dream was real- ized. A star was bom. Okay well not yet, but you mark my words one is bound to pick up on this novel idea. Picture me in Conan O'Brien's time-slot (my apolo- gies to all you big Conan fans). Me, the first \Geheration X\ fe- male to take on the male-domi- nated late-night television view- ing hours. Me- not just interview- ing celebrities, but also the tooth- less crackhead you met down on State street. Me- rich and famous, so all of you can say, \Yeah I rememberwhen she used to write those stupid articles for 1J1e (.\on- cordiensis. I always hated those. Do you think we can get tickets to her show?\ ourbreakthrough concept. Don't you be getting any ideas now- we thought of it first. My days .of worrying about my future are over, and as an attempt to ease the woes of any anxious seniors out there, Alex and I have agreed to hire any friends of ours who are interested in being a part of the show. Yes, this could be an opportunity for all of us. It's not too late to get to know me, I won't hold it against you. What's the show going to be called, you ask? Why, the Erin M. 0 'Nei I show- of course. Stay tuned ... Are you outgoing, upbeat and excited about Union? Would you like to learn more about your college? Do you enjoy meeting new people? Apply now to become a Union College Tour Guide aka the Gatekeeper Honorary Society Applications are available in the Admissions Office Application deadline is Tuesday, January 31st January 19, 1995, page 17 Flabbergasted? . ~'~~:-:li';~~J~: ', . .:-~ 7.,43 on·a large sub, spicy french fries and ·111ed1:um, dtet.;eo put.ch Hollow, l got a parking ticket for ~~S.~~~~J?@p~~~1~~ .· , ,;.':fl-1efoolish idea that I was allowed to park . )liy ie~~'$t¢~~~~~1Jicl~ on College grounds. They charged me ;@*·Q~,,~P ~f~~lds.~my own ·transcript, $.25 to cash a check, ,,;\J1i~lrora @#*! itQtel;)ook at the Bookstore. The education that ' ·· · .· ~~d-at,,$2~,000 a year probably costs me more like ,, 'A)nl'atone in my angst? ~broke and broken . '. ~:-.·<r.: .• ~- . -' . . . ' c. • ' • • 'Hd~Jfl. . . 1·t1i¢~fillliQ~S of~rows perched around campus I'd say ·g&li':toA!1eiifas. ·mat do you think?·- Opus .•... - ·:·· t -,, . -: ~- . ~ . . . Top Ten First 11ames more misfortunate than Eliphalel ·l ·9 ....... i 0. Sorry~ trick top ten. There are no names more misfotiunatc than Eliphalet. · Q. What costs $100,000, lasts four years, and gives you are- spected, well .. known education? A 2,431 Hooked on Phonics tapes Anyone who is interested in writing for The Concordiensis should come to our weekly meetings. The meetings are held every Thursday night at 7:30PM in The Concordiensis office (CC303). There are many different sections and aspects of the paper to get involved with, so come tlp and meet the staff.

- .· -.I(.}\ .. ' January 19, 1995, page 18 ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT Home Video Fever:·Leena's Picks Dave Matthews Band & Big Head Todd and the Monsters play in Albany by Leena Mankad Arts Editor If you're looking for stuff to rent because you're sick .of try- ing to figme out what to do on a Wednesday night like my friends and I arc, here are a couple of flicks that might spark you're in- terest. \TI1e River Wild,\ starring Meryl Streep and Kevin Bacon may be for you. This film made $44 million at th.e box office, so that should say something for its popularity. Streep plays a \physi- cally-gifted heroine\ and Bacon plays an \amiable but psychotic killer.\ Don't ask,just rent. Here is a brief synopsis: Gail (Meryl Streep) grew up on the river, navigating the rap- ids. She left all of it and moved to the city to marry and raise a family. Now, she and her archi- tect husband Tom (David Statharin) have reached an im- passe in their marriage and her son Roarke (Joeseph Mazzella) is estranged from both of them. Gail's attempt to rescue her fam- ily is focused on a river rafting trip which she hopes will draw them closer together. Unfortunately, it's not the only treachery of nature and family chasms the family has to face. It's also the intrusion of deadly jeop- ardy in the fonn of Wade (Kevin Bacon), and his naive but vola- tile partner in crim'e, Terry (John C. Reilly). When young Roarke chooses to put his faith in Wade imd his be- guiling gun rather than his staid father Tom, the balance fat sur- vival is tipped on the side of evil. Now, not only does Gail have her heart set on saving Tom and Roarke as a family but she has to use her physical and emotional strength to save their lives. Un- ©1993lheSoufuAfrironBrm~Uniled. Mlii;,hhi\\'ed. less they unite as a family, their battle against Wade and Terry is a lost cause. And unless Gail can out maneuver the majestic and deadly river rapids, their journey can only end in death for each of them. Have fun with this one and tell us how it ends. Here's another film that may be obscure, but promising nevertheless. From the directors of Driving Miss Daisy comes another witty comedy/ drama that is a must see. Here is Not My Cup of Tea A Review of Dink and Wig by Jody Mousseau Coucordiensis Staff Dink is a group that I had never heard of before until I was asked to write this. It may be because I'm naive, but the primary reason why I believe that the group was not known to me is because I con- sider myself a person of consid- erably decent taste. Perhaps many people enjoy the music of Dink, and rightfully so. It did nothing for me except give me a headache. The group is from Kent, Ohio and their self titled debut album was released in November. Dink describes themselves as \a total rock psycho-hop outfit.\ Psycho is certainly a suitable word to de- scribe them. What is their music about? I haven't a clue, and I didn't wish to find out because I would have had to make the ef- fmi to strain my ears to hear most of the words. Dink is an alterna- tive group, excuse me, a hard in- dustrial alternative group, that I probably wouldn't mind listening to if I was stranded on a desert island with a bottle of Tylenol and nothing better to do. Wig is another group that I had the honor of doing justice. What- ever. Their album \Deliverance\ was certainly not what I wished to hear after listening to Dink. But I did anyway. It wasn't quite as ear-paining. The style was similar, but a little easier to bare. In a clear state of mind, I prob- ably wouldn't listen to it by choice, or voluntarily play it dur- ing my radio show (which, inci- dentally, is Thursday morning from 1-3 am). However, ifyou're a huge fan of hard alternative music, then you'd most likely feel differently about both Dink and Wig. Anyone who is interested in writing for Arts should contact Leena or Suzanne at x6155. a description courtesy of MCA Universal Home Video: ... Loaded with sexual intrigue and political wheeling-and-deal- ing, the wickedly funny A Good Man In Africa, debuts from MCA!Universal Home Video on February 14. 1995. Sean Connery, Louis Gosset, Jr., Colin Friels, John Lithgow, Diana Ri,gg, and Joanne Whalley- Kilmer star in this satirical com- edy about sex, power, and collid- i·ng cultures directed by Bruce Beresford. ter attention from rock critics Courtesy of Dave Matthews nationwide. Band Publicity Big Head Todd and the Two of 1994's hottest tour- Monsters, who first burst onto ing commodities - The Dave Matthews Band and Big Head Todd and the Monsters - offer Al·bany music fans a double shot of great live music when they headline at The Palace TheaterofWednesday, Febm- ary 8th at 8 pm. Ugly Ameri- the record charts with their certified gold 1993 release \Sister Sweetly\ (Giant Records), managed to some- how find enough time during an exhausting stretch of four comprehensive U.S. tours to records a sophomore effort, cans will the newly- open the \The Dave Matthews Band r e 1 eased Wlien a British foreign diplo- mat (Friels) in West Africa is caught, quite literally, with his pants down with the sultry wife (Wlullley-Kilmer) of a powerful presidential candidate (Gosset. Jr.,), he is is coerced into making amends in a semingly mild and easy way: convince an influential physicaian (Connery) to change his vote against a project favored by the candidate. However, this physician proves to be steadfastedly incorruptible in spite of all types of bribes. In the meantime, the diplomat soon finds his own situation increas- ingly complicated by stuffy beaurocrats, lusty women, power hungry politicians and culture clashes as he leams there tmly is \A Good Man In Africa.\ evening. T h e D a v e Matthews B a n d quickly quickly became a major music success story last year as a grass-roots f~llowing sold out show after show with virtually no mainstream recognition.\ \Strate gem\ (Giant Records). Their ap- pearance as a headliner Have fun with these two films. Hopefully they will provide for some entertainment on those nights with nothing to do ... (if you're so lucky!) became a major music success story last year as a grass-roots following sold out show after show with virtually no main- stream recogniti·on whatso- eyer. Dave Matthew' first re- lease, \Remember Two Things\ sold over 100,000 copies of the band-created la- bel Bam a Rags Records before RCA Records signed the band and threw .the. force of a major record label behind them. \Under The Table and Cream- ing\ (RCA), the newest Dave Matthews Band release, has been receiving front-and cen- in the 1994 H.O.R.D.E. Festi- val ( which in previous years launched the careers of The Spin Doctors, Blues Traveler, and Phish) increased their al- ready burgeoning fan base as the tour wound its way across the United States last summer. Tickets for the February 8th Palace Theater concert have been on sale since Saturday, January 14th through Ticketmaster, Ticketmaster Phone Charge (518-476- 1 000) and the Palace Theater box of COLLEGE CENTER CLRSSIC FILM SERIES Euery Tuesday Night at 9 PM on the Bl G s·cnEENS at Chet's African Queen Directed by John Huston, with Humphrey Bogart and Katherine Hepburn ~ Rebel Without a Cause James Dean, Natalie Wood, Sal Mineo, Jim Backus, Dennis Hopper R Night at the Opera . The Marx Brothers: Groucho, Harpe, Ch1co and Zeppo A Streetcar Named Desire Tennessee Williams' play directed for the screen by Elia Kazan, with Marian Brande, Vivien Leigh, Karl Malden, Kim Hunter Rear Window Directed by Alfred Hitchcock, with James Stewart, Grace Kelly, Raymond Burr Sin·ain• in the Rain · The classic movie musical, with Gene Kelly, Debbie Reynolds, Donald O'Connor, Rita Moreno, Cyd Charissa Bonnie and Clude Faye Dunaway, W~rren 13eatty, Gene Hackman, Estelle Parsons, Michael J. Pollard · Dr. Stranaeloue Directed by Stamey Kubrick, with Peter Sellers, George C. Scott, Slim Pickens . January 17 January 24 January 31 February 7 .. February 21 February 28 March 7

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT January 19, 1995, Page 19 Out of the Ordinary: A Celebration of Contemporary Folk Art Courtesy of Albany Institute of History & Art An exhibition which celebrates the exuberance of contemporary folk art by considering the inter- action between artist, community and culture will debut at the AI~ bany Institute of History & Art on Friday, January 20, 1995. Out l?{ the Ordinary: Omnmmity Tastes and Values in ( .'oulemporary Folk Art brings together a significant cross section of active New York State folk attists and their works to take a fresh, innovative view offolk art in which the social fab- ric of contemporary American culture is revealed. tion of over ten years of work by professional folklorists and other cultural specialists. Our oft he Ordinary consists of four major sections, each explor- ing the connection between con- temporary folk artists and their communities. The exhibition uses impressive examples of folk art, photos, infonnation and video to show that contemporary folk m1ists are interactive with, com- ment upon, and sotnetiines con- sciously depart form everyday realities. For instance, visitors will see Fred Morgan's \Tuba . Mailbox,\ the \My Hootch\ di- orama by Vietnam Veteran Michael D. \Wheels\ Cousino, Sr.,. and Ahawenrathe Brad Bonaparte's \Ceremonial Head- dress or Kustowa.\ Despite the complexities of life in the 1990s, contemporary American folk artists pursue their calling as tradition-bearers. Within urban, rural and suburban contexts, folk artists perpetuate or reinterpret the traditional values and aesthetics of their diverse groups. \Rather than treat the art as precious and removed from modem realities, which is often the attitude of people outside the culture groups, this exhibit looks at objects from within diverse American community contexts,\ said exhibition curator Varick Chittenden, director of Tradi- tional Arts in Upstate New York. Out l?{lhe Ordinary is a culmina- Our t?f the Ordinary has broad st(!tewide appeal. \We hope to help increase public understand- ing and appreciation of the diver- sity and richness of traditional folk art,\ said Christine Miles, director of the Albany Institute. \The New York State folk artists represented in the exhibi.tion il- luminate the unique ethnic, occu- pational and regional identities that help shape this state,\ she added. Ajrica11 Americall Strip Quilt Makers, Stuyvesa11t Heigllts Se11ior Citizells Ce11ter, Brook{VIl Out.£?! the Ordinary will be on display at the Albany Institute through May 7, 1995. A number of special programs designed by the museum's edueation depart- ment have been planned in con- junction with exhibition, includ- ing a four-part \Meet the Folk Artists\ series. The Albany In- stitute will kick-off the exhibition with an opening reception on Timrsday, January 19 from 5:30 - 7:30pm (public is invited). Ouf(?fthe Ordinary, circulated by the Gallery Association of Ci~cl~ of Fire & E~cuse Me for Asking by Suzanne Robinson Arts Editor Swiss nanny case, acquitted puttogetherascollegeroommates. Olivia Riner of arson and murder and a strong and unlikely friend- charges and she is to this date free. ship emerges. Both women are The other day, as I was walk- The title of the story refers to the trying to uncover family secrets, ingtoclassandthewannweather circle of fire that surrounded that sometimes are better left brought back memories of spring Kristie. She was tied to her in- alone. andallofitsenjoyments. Come fantseatonthenurseryrugwhere Julia is tormented by the spring time I am always impelled she died. memory of a crime she thinks she to spend as much time outside as Joyce Egginton is able to build once witnessed. Robin is an or- 'bl ~ bl d phan, \raised by an aunt possJ. e, pre I era Y rea - Now, I know it isn't spring yet, but in g. Now I know it isn't who knew the Dewey spring yet, btit this is no this is no excuse for not reading. Decimal System better excuse for not reading. Two novels I strongly suggest are than she knew the TwQ novels 1 strongly CitcleojFire: Murder~ndBetrayal namesofanyofthecur- ( ,. I fF' rent television series,\ suggest are . . 1rc e l! · iwe: ih the \Swiss Nann\\ Case and ~-~ .1 d 1r~ 1 · J who is in search for an- willruer an :Jetraya m Excuse Mefior Asking.\ the \Swis.\· Nanny\ Case, swers to her endless by Joyce Egginton, and Excuse a case against Riner, and credits questions about her parents. Julia Mefor Asking, by Janis Arnold. Riner's freedom to the sloppiness is on the constant go, wanting to After reading Circle of Fire you of the police investigation, weak experience new things, some- will be awed that this story is not prosecution, and a sly defense. times bringing Robin along, as fiction. Joyce Egginton uses her She also discusses a possible mo- well as the reader. By the end, great ability of logically display- tive for Riner's brutal murder that Julia and Robin seem real and ing the case, covering the crime the prosecution failed to do. Janis Amold has developed them and trial systematically. TI1e story Other true-crime books by Joyce so nicely you can't but help care covers the history of the death of Egginton include From Cradle to what happens to them. Amold's Dristie Fischer, less then three GrawJ and Day c?f Fury. first novel, Daughter.H?[Memory 1rtonths old by her Swiss nanny. Excuse Me for Asking, is a is also very similar, yet !~:reuse Kristie was murdered on Decem- novel following the two very dif- Me for Asking is filled with a her 2, 1991 in her home in ferent lives of Julia Salwell, free- broader humor and filled with TI1omwood, NY, by her twenty spirited and beautiful and Robin deep insights. year old au pair, Olivia .Riner. Tilton, \cautious but curious.\ TI1is case, later to be known as the Their paths meet when they are The Emers~n String Quartet will be performing in Memorial Chapel on Sunday afternoon at 3PM. New York State, was sponsored by a major grant from the Lila Wallace-Readers Digest Fund, and by grants from the National Endowment for the Arts and the New York State Council on the Arts. Major funding for the pre- sentation of Outt?f the Ordinary and related education prOI,'Tams at the Albany Institute ofHistory.& Art has been provided by NYNEX. Additional support has been provided by Herold Chari- table Trust and the Women's Council of AIHA. TI1e Albany Institute is located at 125 Washington Avenue in downtown Albany. For more in- fonnation, call 518-463-44 78. Mountebanks: A Night of Theater Games by Leena Mankad Arts Editor This Saturday, January 21st. Mountebanks will present a Night of Theater Games, a per- formance to be held in Old Chapel at 7 pm. The perfor- mance is based on last Saturday's Theater sport's workshop. Fred Ulrich, and Mountebank's moderator pre- sented a fun- filled after- noon of silli- ness and im- provisational type drama. Special guest Christian Thom, Bryan Cuprill, Suzanne Hereth and Monty who have both talent and experience in this area, were invited to help teach the theater sports. There were numerous games played and each provoked it's own sense of entertainment. With all that attended, much cre- ativity and humor came of the aften1oon. It was evident that every individual's creativity aided in the craziness that en- stted. One game, called Talk- Show Host provided for tons of laughs. Four people left the room, aild the remaining group would decide upon a topic for · the talk show that the four people wouid have to guess later. Through questions that the talk-show \audience\ asked the four clueless guests, the topic was gradually revealed. What provided the humor was there- sponses given by the \guests especially since they were blindly answering the ques- tions. Another game called Freeze provided a playground for ac- to their placing actors into a ridiculous predicament and having them make up usually bizarre lines and actions. As one may notice, there is a lot of effort involved in attempting to explain these bizzarre games. But there is a way to understand all this chaos: come to the Night of Theater Games this Saturday. Many games will be played and there will be guaranteed laughs, and strange tales. A vety talented, and creative group of individuals will be perfonning and this is something you don't want to miss out on. So what if Saturday is a party night. You may as well be in a good mood before you decided to get abso- lutely plastered later on.

'· I. .. ,, January 19,1995, Page 20 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT O.J. Honored on Postage Stamp Courtesy of Scott Tilson llltemational Collectors Society Even as O.J. Simpson sits in jail, accused of murder, legal ten- der postage stamps cmnmemorat- ing the football superstar are be- ing used to post letters around the world. In circulation since 1993, the OJ. stamp is in full color and is about twice the size of a regular U.S. postage stamp. It is contained with it~ a sheet of 9 stamps honor- ing intemational sports stars such as Pele (soccer). Wilt Chamberlain (basketball), Nadia Comaneci (gymnas- tics) and Steve Ballesteros (golt). The O.J. stamp has a face value of $50 Guyana and is quite stunning with rather remarkable at1work ofO.J. both in a close-up pose and running down the foot- ball field wearing his famous number ··3r unifonn. \Only a few thousand sheets were originally isSlled in 1993, and many of them have already been used for postage,\ remarked Scott Tilson of The Intemational Collectors Society in Owings Mills, Maryland, who was able to obtain the entire remaining inven• tory, which is in pristine condi- tion, from the Guyana Postal Au- thorities. \I'm not sm:e they actually knew what they had.\ Tilson re- marked. \In fact. they called it the 'Pele Issue.' So I just played along. not mentioning that I was really after the 0 J. stamps.\ TI1e stamps are legal for post- Ballroom Dancing Club is Back. Lessons will be held in the Multipurpose Room in The Alumni Gym on Thursdays 4:30-5:30 and Sundays 5:00 to 6:00. All are welcome . No experience or partner is necessary . . Campus ·PaperbaCk _Be~tsellers· 1. Interview with the Vampire, by Anne Rice (Ballantine, $6 99) The novel that launched The Vamp1re Chronicles. 2. Disclosure, by M1chael Cnchton. (Ballant~ne. $6.99 ) Sexual harassment in a West Coast electronics firm. 3. Homicidal Psycho Jungle Cat, by Bill Watterson. (Andrews & McMeel, $12 95 J Latest Calv1n and Hobbes collection 4. The Vampire Lestat, by Anne R1ce. (Ballantine. $6.99.) Mesmenzing stol)' of a vampire now a rock star 5. llle Shipping News, by E. Anme Proulx. (Touchstone. $t2.0o.) Newspaperman returns lo his childhood home after death of his wife. 6. Forrest Gump. by Winston Groom (Pocket, $5.50.) Simple Alabama man JOUrneys through three decades of American History. 7. Embraced by the Light, by Betty J. Eadie w\h Curtis Taylor. (Bantam, $5.99.) A woman's near-death expenence. 8. Having our Say, by Sarah L Delany and A. Elizabeth Delany. (Dell, $5.99.) Two sisters reflect on their lives 9. Without Remorse, by Tom Clancy. (Berkley, $6 99.) The rescue of prisoners held in North V1etnam. 10. Care altha Soul, by Thomas Moore. (Harper Perennial, $12.00) Guide for spirituality •n everyday hfe. ; _·.New & Recommended Paddy Clarke Ha Ha Ha, by Roddy Doyle. (Penguin, $10.95.} Witty and po1gnant -this story charts the tnumphs. indignities, and oowilderment·ol a ten-year-old boy as he tries to make sense of his changing world. Growing up Asian Am&rlcan, by Maria Hong. Ed. (Avon, $12.50.) Stories of chilqhood. adolescence and coming of age in America.from the 1800s to lhe 1990$ by 32 Asian American writers. Little Women, by LoUisa May Alcott. (Pocket. $5.60.) Based on Alcon's own Yankee childhood- a story whose enduring values kept this extra· ordinary family closefo lhe heai1S of:generalions of delig~ted readers. age in Guyana, and are recog- nized by every postal authority throughout the world. \These stamps were rare to be- gin with,\ indicated Tilson, \but with so much news about O.J. and the trial now, we expect the re- maining sheets of stamps to dis- appear quickly. I wouldn't be surprised if virtually all of these stamps will be in the hands of collectors in a matter of weeks.\ The stamps were origi- nally issued in 199 3, as a Limited Edition of only a few thousand sets world- wide and are the only stamps ever issued in cmn- memoration ofO.J .. \When you compare that to U.S. Commemorative stamps such as Elvis Presley and Buddy Holly where hundreds of millions are printed, you can see the irresistible appeal that these stamps have for 0 .J. fans, collec- tors of the unusual. and stamp col- lectors,\ continued Tilson. Corrections: There was an error in the article concerning the comedians who performed at Chet's last week. The name of one of the comedians, Rob Weinstein was printed incorrectly. Theater in the Void Courtesy of tile Visual Arts Department There will be an exhibition of the work of architect Michael Cramer titled, Theater in the Void: A Downtown Intervention it1 .Schenectady, New York, which will be on display from Monday, January 23 to Friday, February 24, 1995, in the Arts Atrium at Union College. Michael Cramer is a young Boston based architect. His work . in the current exhibit in the .. Un.ion College Arts Atr.ium, titled Theater in the Void.' A neglected place.\ Cramer draws on the work of site-s_pecific sculptors Alice Aycock and Mary Miss to de- velop his concept for the site, creating, to quote Walter Ben- jamin \a curious dialectic (of present and past) that resolves itselfin a dream.\ Conceiving of architecture as process more than product, and the urban fab- ric as an organism with its own cycle of life and decay, Cramer's project attempts to engage a collective memory of place and retum to the site its \feelings symbols, memories, _____ ......._ _____ ___... ____ dreams, myths and all \' ... feelings, symbols, memories, dreams, myths, and all the subtle energies that go into the expressive dimension .. ethe most human region of urban life.'\ the subtle energies that go into the ex- pressive dimension ... the most human re- gion of urban life.\ A native of Downtown Intervention in Schenectady. New York , incor- . porates a once dense downtown site along Erie Boulevard· as a \groundzero';from which to.ex- plore the new reality of post-in- dustrial urban America and ev- eryday life in the modem world. Cramer incorporates text, his- torical photographs, and images frmn the popular press to evoke the \latent site ... saturated with history,\ a repository of memory and the changing pattems of hu- man activity. Combining these images and texts with his own models and dr~wings he at- tempts to \express what for some time has never been ex- pressed : the inner voice of a Niskayuna, Michael Cramer graduated from Union College in Schenectady in 1990, with a B.A. in Art His- tory. 111eater in the Void: A Downtown Intervention in Schenectm~v. NY was devel- oped as his Thesis Project for the Master in Architecture de- gree at Harvard Graduate School of Design. Cramer re- ceived his degree in 1994. There will be a reception for the artist Monday, Febuary 20, 1995 from 4 to 5:30 pm. It is fee admission and open to the public. For further information please call Dawn Parisi, Assis ... tant Program Director, or Chris Duncan, Visual Arts Depart- ment, at (518)388-6201.

LIVING January 19, 1995, page 21 And the Wind Screams, Mary: The Value of an Education in the Workplace by Alex Shapiro Living Editor A terribly confused vision of William Blake worked its way into Schaffer Library this wedc.. After knocking over several book shelves, it reportedly settled down next to a student and said, \0 pitiable young man! 0 horrible! 0 dread:fu1 state! Consider the hot burning dungeon thou art preparing for thyself to all etemity. to which thou art art going in such ca- reer.\ Tunisia Nights was worlcing at the Psychic Pals Network ,hotline when she received the call from the hysterical student; ten minutes later I was called in. Apparently, everyyear!here are several calls from students being graduated from college who describe similar experi- ences. These appearances of dead philosophers, theorists, big name personalities, and other such professionals have been attributed by some to the to the theories Frank J. Tippler ex- presses in his book, The Theory of Immortality; this reporter fol- lowed the problem home to the source. Th~ always helpful staff at the Career Development Cen- ter assured my feverish student body that it was just a dream.. not an awful prophecy ftom hell itself. Why then, am I having the same dream? In a few months, around seven-hundred of we Union Freshfaces will descend on the .. Real World\ like a gaggle of wild geese looking for nub in all the right places. We'll over- flow the job pool, creating new jobs with our unbounded en- ergy. We'll tuck memories of college wherever we deem ap- propriate ad begin the joumey of a thousand steps; leaving de- struction. in our wakes and cast- ing shadows of hopeful success on our highways. What will happen to all the ideas that have filled our class- room hours for the past four years? Even the more practical majors here are exposed to the more abstract pleasures of edu- cation every now and again. These concepts of immortality and moments of clarity, if not kept up on~ must snre1y fade; I 1hink summer break alone is tes- tament to that. Secretly, Wiconsciously, we are being tom. In the worka- day world, you don~t see some- one thinking the big thoughts. We've seen what goes on in Hem1m1 :~Head~ nothing realty. A head in the working world gets filled up with working thoughts. Expanding in a work- ingway,. growing in certain ar- eas while shrinking in others, continually becoming more fo- cused, tmtil evecything is seen through the \narrow chinks\ of 1he cell door a career becomes. Will the jobs we choose, and the careers w~ aspire towards, be fulfilling? Does it matter? Is life really what happens while we,re waiting for the train? When Julius Robert Oppenheimer,. the physicist credited for his work in the de- velopment of the atomic bomb, saw the first A-Bomb explode he said \I have become Deat11, theDestroyerofworlds.\ In the years since his own death, and subsequent ~val of worlds; his prophecy has lost the luster of physical annihilation and gained a room in tbe house of poetically career related dol- drums anxiety. Destruction and creation are ostensibly two sides of the same coin. Oppenheimer created his own brand of destruction~ one that destroyed creation. Like shedding skin. old habits and sensibilities must sometimes die in order for fresh life to grow. Me amigo E. P. Whitney Bolnes once lamented, .. 1 may not be a dead .dogs body. but I live in one;\' and so he did. No one should let themselves be defined by what they do. Bolnes was so studiously tangled in the wheels of dead worlds and opaque doors that he was rotting ftom the inside out. What Bolnes discovered was that worldS, like clothes. some- times need to be changed, or even abandoned. He'd been wearing the same clothes furfur too long. The du11 san~ tongues of his job bad lapped away at his senses mtil he could barely see a reason to live. It's said tbatin the Dark Ages if yon asked sooloone fiom the \working class\\ (or whatever we call people who worked back then) w~o they were. they'd have no answer but a job description. Most of them didn't even bother to have names, they had no identities apart from their work: Because they had never been exposed to different ideas. their minds \M:re as oocultivated as bairen land. ~ In tiJis age of post-industrial- ism and widespread literacy. ideas are available to everyone. A professor in the Hmnanities here at Union contends tbat in order to think, the mind must Diane and Dex: Out with the Old, In with the New Dear Diane and Dex, Should I pursue this other girl, portant phooe.nmubel'. lnves- J'mwalkingaronndthisweek posstoly my soul-mate, or re- tigation could be risky, that's feeling all upset and tom up in- main witbmyeverfaithful girl- whyyoohavea:tiienddoit_ As side because of an especially friend? longasyouarestraightforwml disturbing incident that tran- -Dead Weight withbo1hparties,i.e.onlyspeak spiredovertheweek- \M .. .. . f . . of what is asked, it's end. Mygirlfriendof . ygtr~endo ~breeyears and I grnvy. Thelessonyoo three years and I were were fighting, ag:Aiil, and I went to would probably be figbtiQg, again, and I a party our of town for the wcekg learning from · this went to a party out of end with some friends. Well, I met whole \onleal\ is that town for the weekend another girl •.. \ yoo should be appre- with some of my ciative of change as friends. Well, I met another Dear Dead Weight, much as comfort. For all you girl. This other girl reallydnnre Quel Horreur! Allow me to know, this party-girl you met me crazy; we danced and sang rephrase your situation in a may have a 'boyfriend who she into the wee hours of the mom- more positive light: You have was fighting with. Maybe the ing when we finally passed out a faithful .. if temperamental, whole group could get togethei' on a bed with six or sevenolhel' girlfriend with whom you've for a little two for one action? people. It seemed like we wen: shared three years of love and Then all your problems woold a match made in heaven. She hate. In additioo, you have an be solved. Youshouldbeginby gave me her phone numbel\ bot out of town love interest who getting as much information I lost it. Meanwhite 9 my gid- your gidfiiend li.eVer needs to - about dte situation as JIOSSI.Ple, friend and I are back togethet know about. Your only prob- and go fhRn thee. now. I don't know wbatm do. lail is that you lost the· all im- \\Aml11 fllllmmless void for his feet. Au intl!llse fires for his dwelli11g. \ - W. Blake already have the words to carry 1be thought. Thoughts are what m:ate all things. As knowledge prew~ls..even fanner Joe needs E-mail and a horticultural de- gree to pnt the butter on the table. . Edncation. in whatever fonn it may come. is supposed to be a spring-board to a higher con- sciousness. It seems Blake. and all the rest of the restless spirits of new and old, are aware of the war we as friends and neighbors are about to go through. As in- tegral parts of our student world, they are just making sure we keep tbe springs oiled and well used. Jimi Hendrix once asked, \Will the wind everremember all the names it has blown in the past?\ I guess it doesn't matter what jobs we get, just as long as we always keep the wind screaming. Happy New Year from the staff on the Living Page. Brenda's Stars For Tl10se With Birtl1days This Week Although the mere bulk of yOQI'responsibilities in life and love will not change signifi- cantly. expect wild variations in intensity. Look for oppor- tunities in academics that may oot have been previously avail- able. The nature of your rela- tions with family should im- prove if you are willing to concede to certain compro- mises. Januru:y is the month of new beginnings, you should shuck yourself. lfyou have any dilemmas you would like Diane and Dex to solve for you simply send them in on a HD disk on Microsoft Word to Box 2577, and address th.em to Diane and Dex. There is not problem too small. As many of your teachers over the years have probably told you, there is not dumb ques- tion, except for the ones left unasked. So, send your predicaments to The Concordiensis problem solvers, and don't panic, Diane will be baek from vacation next week.

'· f ' ·•. ), I ..;-I - \ ) Campus Calendar for the Week of Jan 19-25 Campus Meetings Thursday, 01/1'9/95 8:00a- 4:30p IO:OOa 12:00p 12:30p 3:30p 3:30p 4:00p 4:00p 4:30p 4:30p 4:30p 4:30p 5:30p 7:00p 7:30p 7:30p 9:30p Leaming Skills, CC 302 Phi Iota Alpha, TABLE 4 - CC ATRIUM Spanish Language Table, CC 204 Gennan LangHage Table, CC 203 Gamet Yearbook Meeting, CC STRAUSS {305) ~ GE Grant Advisory Committee Meeting,CC 409 Bicentennial Steering Committee Meeting, CC 203 Student Health Committee, CC 205 Tenns Abroad Meeting, HU 112, HU 114, and HU 117 Geology Department Meeting, BU 109 Biology Department Seminar, SS I 03 Ballroom Dancing Club, HH OLD CHAPEL Rushees Meeting with Counsellor, HU 014, HU 019, HU 1 15, and HU 116 Spanish Club, CC MOBIL (406) Mountebanks Meeting, CC 302 The Calculus Center, BAILEY 203 Alpha Phi Alpha Meeting, CC 409 Friday, Ol/20/95 8:00a- 4:30p Leaming Skills, CC 302 8:00a- 4:30p Director's Meeting, HH OLD CHAPEL 8:45a Affirmative Action Meeting, CC 205 I O:OOa Phi Iota Alpha Meeting, TABLE 4- CC ATRIUM I O:OOa Marriott Director's Meeting, HH DINING ROOM 3:00p Math 007 Seminar, BAILEY 201 5 :OOp Rush Meeting, CC 409 5:30p Rushees Meeting with Councellor, HU 014, HU 019, HU I 15, and HU 116 6:30p 7:00p 8:00p 9:00p Intervarsity Christian Fellowship, CC MOBIL (406) Philomathean Society, HH MILANO LOUNGE Rush Preference Night, CC 203, CC 204, and CC 205 \Coffeehouse'' RATHSKELLAR Saturday, 01121195 7:30a U-Med CPR Class, SS 103 8:00p Delta Psi Delta Meeting, HH OLD CHAPEL I ' SPORTS . Saturday, 01/21/95 2:00p MEN'S & WOMEN'S SWIMMING, UNION VS. UNION COLLEGE Career Development Center MIDDLEBURY, ALUMNI GYM POOL CDC Updates ... Jessica Adelson '89 English- Director of On-Line Services for Net Guide Magazine on the Internet. Join us for an informal discussion of how a liberal arts major is succeeding in a techni- cal field. Friday, January 20 @ 3 PM. Graduating Seniors: Friday, January 20 is the day to turn in your resumes for On-Campus Recruiting interviews, winter tenn. A list of the participating companies is available in the Career Library. Special Drop-In Hours: Thursday 9-12, 1-5, and Friday 9am- 3:30pm for a critique of your updated resume. Interviewing Workshop will be held Tuesday, January 24 @ 7pm. Learn how to prepare for and present yourself effectively in an interview. Resumes for summer jobs: Workshop on resumes and cover letters, TODAY, Thurs. January 19 @ 3:45 in the CDC. Juniors Juniors Juniors Andersen Consulting will be on campus to interview interested · students for .a paid summer internship. Details are available at. CDC library. Sunday, 01/22/95 9:00a Ellen Sinapoli Dance Class, PAS 4:30p R.A. Selection, HH OLD CHAPEL 6:00p Ballroom Dancing Club, HH OLD CHAPEL 6:30p Phi Iota Alpha, CC 409 7:00p Protestant Worship, HH OLD CHAPEL Monday, 01/23/95 8:00a- 4:30p 11 :30a Learning Skills, CC 302 Frenc;h. Language Table, CC 204 Political Science Department, CC 205 12: 15p 4:30p 5:00p 7:00p 8:00p 9:00p Biology Dept. Meeting for Students, CC AUDITORIUM Meditation Group, CC 302 Chet's Committee Meeting, CC 409 Delta Psi Delta Meeting, CC 302 Social Committee Meeting, CC 409 Tuesday,. 01/24/95 8:00a - 4:30p II :OOa Leaming Skills, CC 302 Residence Life Meeting, CC 205 II :30a ll :30a 11 :30a 12:00p l2:00p 12:00p 12:00p 3:30p 3:45p 4:30p 5:30p 7:00p 7:00p 7:00p 7:30p 7:30p Founder's Day Committee Meeting~ CC 204 Faculty Soup & Beverage, HH DINlNGROOM Economics Department Seminar, .SS 105 Community & Values Discussion Groitp, MILANO LOUNGE Residence Life.St&ffMeeting, CC 205 Japanese Table, CC 203 Fraternity/Sorority P{Qgr;un, CC 409 R.A. Selection, Residence Life, HH OLD¢liAPEL Commencement Meeting, CC 20~ Res:1:1me Crisis Center, CC 204 Delta Psi Delta Meeting, CC 203 Intervarsity Christian Fellowship Bible Study, CC 409 Union College Orchestra Rehearsal, MEMORIALCHAPEL Committee on Political and Social Theory, OLD CHAPEL Ambassador's Program, Admissions, CC AUDITORIUM The Calculus Center, BAILEY 203 . '. MOVIES Show times are 8:00 & 10:30 pm unless otherwise indicated~ Admission $2.00 Friday, 01/20 \Clear & Present Danger'', CC AUDITORIUM Saturday, Ol/21 \Clear & Present·Danger\ CC AUDITORIUM Sunday, 01/22 \Clear & Present Danger\ CC AUDITORIUM Monday, 01/23 \Clear & Present Danger\ CC AUDITORIUM Tuesday, 01/24 \Rebel Without a Cause\ CHET'$ CAMPUS EVENTS Thursday, 01/19/95 12:00p Peer Facilitators, \Plate Full of Questions\ CC 409 1 :30p Speaker: Gwo-Ching Wang, \Dynmatic Growth of Interfaces\ Physics Colloquium, NWSE 114 4:45p GMI Lecture: Mr. Harvey Yu ,\When (not if) China Goes Capitalist- What Can We Expect?\ BAILEY 312- GMI CONF.ROOM Friday, 01/20/95 12:30p Speaker: Jessica Adelson, \'Discussion of Internet\ CC AUDITORIUM 5:45p JSU Dinner, KOSHER KITCHEN Sunday, 01/22/95 3:00p Emerson String Quartet, College/Museum Series, MEMO RIAL CHAPEL Wednesday, 01/25/95 6:00p Israel Info. Pasta Dinner, KOSHER KITCHEN 7:00p Absolute Union: \Is it time to tum off the taps\ ... crosstalk, CHET'S

Personals Laura, I won't be back until May so you better get a few good strokes in on my head soon, P To the Big Br.o's and Sis's driver who parked in traffic at Rotterdam, what the hell are you thinking? Amy sorry about the mess. Oz· To the overrated RPl punks, hate you! To coachR Here i's some inoney for a brew.- You know who we are. I-ley Thompson, you are a HUNK!, - Fabio To Barbara the love of my life, Rememberthe fabulous night we had under the flagpole? Well I don't. To the next hockey opponents, Beware TI1e Bmce is Loose! To the perso11 who left a Rho Chi personal, the name of the per- son that lost your message will pay you back on Saturday, 9AM in front of the collge center. My name is Joel To Porto Utica Tom is a tool as well as Johnson. Paul Geppetto Sorry about the ruckus that we caused last Friday. Jimmy and Champ I hope that you break the family tradition of inbreeding. Amy Be careful with who you drag down the stairs with you. Don't worry I am okay.- the Z-man Hey Deano, Let the fans cheer as loud as they want. Let Union have some pride, damn it! Keep all sharp objects 1mt of the reach of everyone who got their LS AT scores on Tuesday. If you like pina coladas and chicken pot pies then we belong together under African skies. . The tree was incredible. The more I know the more I care. Scary thought, huh? Bret Try to take it easy with all those video games. Dave, Don't you think that you should take a nap. Anyone interested in starting a snorkeling club, meet at the pool at 3:30 on Friday. \Snukums\- I love you! What more can be said? How 'bout a Jot? Love - \Babe\ Hi Sethy Hoy! I hope you are feeling better. Remember that I love you a lot. I'll call you soon. URAQT!, Loveya! Sis To The Women of66 Union Ave: It's almost over, aud we will never have to do it again - Thank good- ness for senior year! Love The Crazy Woman Hi Family, Just a little note to say I love you all. Keep smiling! Love, Mom/G-mom Meredith, Thanks for going to the maH and helping me de-stress. Thank goodness for the m~ke-up lady! ITB, Your Partner In Crime To The Women of66 Union Ave: SoiTy about Sunday Moming. I feel really, really, really really, bad. I'll have to put that boy on a leash! Thanks for being so un- derstanding .. -TI1e Crazy Woman with a Crazy Boyfriend Hi Mom aJld Dad, Just a note to say I love you! Love, Carrie To my little Rho Chi - I'm glad that things. seem to be going well for you. Sorry that you've been so tired, but it will all be ·over soon. I can't wait for spring tenn, when we will actu- ally see eachother on Tuesday nights. Love - your roommate Jenni - I really wish you had come up to see me last night. I've missed you. Come up and see me soon. Please don't let med school swallow you. Love, Hebsaba To the Belated Birthday Girl - So, how does it feel to be the an- cient one? When are you going to make time in your busy sched- ule to come up and visit us? Are we just not cool enough anymore? Happy 22nd, dear! Love, wiggle Davey- I hope this trend ofkind- ness continues. Thanks for the invite to the game. l'in really glad we're going on another field trip. I don't blame you for EVERY- THING! - your friend and fel- low editor \I know that yml're in love with him 'cause I saw you dancin' in the\ darkroom. To my Rho Chi roomie, I've missed you this week. Some- day we will sleep again. You're the best. Love, Retard H- Remember, no sex on Tues- days., -J DFL- ·Was it ali exclusive for TC? -fellow staff member. Lost - One very large pole. Last seen Fox first floor. Generous PERSONALS reward will be offered. Mommy, cookie. LS - Make sure you don't hurt those fit1gers at practice. Loveya. DW - Do you think. it has any sexual connotations? D&D SAS - Thanks for all of your use- ful instructions. I really appreci- ate it. -your phone partner SWF seeking SM with good bone structure and manicured nails. Bad girl needs to become civi- lized. If you have any imagina- tive ideas, give me a call. Sven, I missed doing shots in your room on Friday 11ight. But most of all I missed you, sexy!! Hugs and Kisses, Lydia As the Stomach Churns: Who will Fifi take to her fonnal? Will it be the dashing, but bald Den;!k or the \high\ flying Toto? Or per- haps it will be Sven! Tune in next week for more of this never end- ing dilemna. To H. Rock- It was nice to have finally met you. I'll see you sometime soon. - LS SM searching for SF interested in big game snipe hunting. Camaflouge is a must Please send picture of your gun. To Mr. Happy- Why does it feel so good? -Seeking attention ToDW- Congratulations on breaking the record of seven and moving on to eight. -Spoon To the boys downstairs (aka: homdogs)- Is it possible to have a conversa- tion without it revolving around or insinuating that \favorite topic?\ I don't think I will ever be able to watch a Disney movie in the same way again. - your favorite rushee DF & LS- Do you guys need any ice? I know a place that could get us a good deal. Please, just try to stay off the floor the next time. Love always, DS DW,LS&DF- Oh, my gaw! Roomie- Thank you so much for being the best roommate and putting up· with me. Always remember that I will be here whenever you need me. Love, your partner in crime \You just call out my name, and you know wherever I am, I'll come nnming.\ Love always, DS \A friend is a single soul dwell- ing in two bodies.\ January 19, 1995, page 23 F. - I saw your driver's license, and I'm pretty sure it's Fredriek. Mark- Ummm .... you suck. Markus - Ummm .... Germany? What's that? Tiphaine - Ummm ... .like where is that wine stuff? Gibson {Assmunch)- enT ... 'nuff said :) Kazuha - Conichiwa. Nate - Umm ... errr.. .. You suck more than Mark. .. Bu'Bye. Andy - Is there a butt under all that J1air? Andi B. W.- Cute floor. Pipppper! I miss you! -Mish Mish Hey Walker! Thinking of you too! -Tiramazu To my ex-roomies: You'11 never guess who I saw today. I'll give you guys a hint. The only man we've ever agreed on. Do you all know who it is now? Well. if I write it, then everyone will know. so I'll just have to count on you guys. I miss living with you. Albany is such a long walk. and North is no short venture either. We have to have dinner soon. Love, the nuttiest one Hey Cutie- Just think of how bad we will be spring tenn, when we no longer have all of tl1ese great responsibilities. I feel my thesis coming along \smimmingly.\ I love you. - the tree dweller Davey, Caroline, and Heather Man - 6 more weeks, 42 more days, 1008 more hours. 60,480 more minutes 3,628,800 more seconds until we are out of CC303 forever! - the math major TO LAM - You are the greatest. Breakfast in bed was just the be- ginning. Who knows what's next? Ask Harry. Love, YHB To my little fmit ·You really have to come up to-visit me some weekend before my Union career comes to an end. I know it's tough to fit your dull sister into the schedule of a busy stud, but do your best. I love you. I hope your school work is still going well. and you are working hard. Love, Sister Neighbor Matt, Neighbor Eric. and Linda neighbor - Thanks for the letter. Eric; the post card. Matt; and the pictures from way long ago Matt. Hope you guys are doing well. I miss living with you. Life has not been so easy since I left Congo land. Come and visi.t me sometime in Albany (Heather has my num- ber). Miss you lots. Foundly, Pam Grub, Grub - Your fellow grub has missed you. I hear you're ha- rassing Heather. Leave her alone or I'll come kick your butt. Send me a note of affection in next week's personals. -fellow grub Tums - I'm sorty I've been so un- communicative lately. I am not myself these days. Please, keep calling. I will talk to you soon. Give Martha my best. Yours· Virginia Bri - I'm sorry I didn't call you back but my brain was taken over by crazy little beurons. We must get together. Love- Rubella Maiue- Get your honey and come to Albany to see me, you big. burly moose lover. You can tell me why I only have one electircal outlet per room. Dying for atten- tion. Love- VA Mytile - Do you know what my favorite tract is? The Rtlbro spi- nal. Anyway, I hope you are well. I hate neuro. but Sangh pmmises there is life after it. Please call me if you ever need to explode. Yours in hell- Rubella Angelo - I'm glad our vocal chords still work. See you soon. Love · Peaches To all Schmeds- Enjoy I i fe now! Love, suffering in Albany To the Brain - Thanks for your pafinece and your comfmi. We will make it to February 3rd and ifl don't eat we can go to the for- mal. You't·e a cutie, and I'm glad you're around. Yours - Pinky Wiggle- I love you dearly. -Rubella Everyone - The personals are free. So, send yours in to say hello to all the people you have feelings of any sort for. Sigma Phi Society Semi-Formal Rush Dinner January 19 + 26 at7PM ....

' I I ' January 19, 1995, page 24 SPORTS Swimming Stotnps Hartwick; Improves to 4-1 by Julie Ivanyi Concordiensis Staff The rivalry between Hartwick and Union began long ago. aud continued on Saturday whe1~ both l Jnion teams out swam their op- ponents. Hartwick has proven in the past couple of years to be both a competitive and revengeful team. They consistently pface in the top three in the Men's State Championships. competing closely with Union for 2nd place. The Women's team is equally strong. although the Dutchwomen are able to outscore them both in dual meets and the State Cham- pionships. Lead by their coach. Susan Bassett the Union Dutch- men went out for victory and achieved it. The meet for the Women was filled with victories, but an inun- dation of 'sweeps' was a more evident aspect of the meet. A sweep. in tenns of swimming. is when one team places 1st. 2nd. and 3rd. Since only the top 5 places score, this would bring in a total of 16 points for that team, as opposed to a mere 3 points for the opposing team. Union was able to claim two sweeps. in the 200 IM and the 200 Fly. Megan McCarthy. Mo O'Donnell, and Alyson McKee trounced their opponents. with Hartwick follow- ing three seconds later. ·soon af- ter this momentous event. McCarthy. 0' Donnell and Flo Chretien outdid Hartwick by a margin offive seconds. After the .-f-'\ seednd event of the meet, Union was losing to Hartwick by a small margin of two points. But with first and second place finishes in the 200 Free by Jackie Crane and Jenn Allaire. the Dutchwomen regained control of the meet with a lead of five points. l11eir lead continued with the above men- tioned sweeps. giving Union an edge on their opponents of twenty-tluee points. In the 200 Back, Sarah Spaulding, Jenn Allaire, Annie Rozwadowski, and Jen Davidson, brought in points from four finishes, creating a comfortable leeway which held for the rest of the meet. Megan McCarthy. Melissa Pomerleau, and Jenn TetTell took first. third. and fourth. respectively, in the 200 Breastroke. clutching an ad- ditional fourteen points from Hartwick. An injured Eri HayashL along with Jonatha Meade. Jenn Allaire. and Jackie Crane brought the meet to a close by winning the 400 Free Relay. Taking a third place finish in that same relay was Flo Chretien, Alyson McKee, Kelly Jamieson, and CeCe Buchanan. Nicole Rubin, Amy Lamphere, and Heather Kanser dove competi- tively and once again furnished twenty-two points to the final score 0f 150-93. giving the women their fourth win of the season. The Men's meet was a closer meet. although Union pulled out to win by a large margin of 150- 87. Hartv-:ick took first in the Medley Relay. leavin·g Union trailing by five points. But then Union College swimmer during tlreir meet agai11st Williams (file pltoto by Joslt Haines/Concordiensis) in the 200 Free, Scott Bowden and Chris Riley took first and sec- ond and thirteen points. By the next event, the 50 Free, Mike Humphrey, and Pete Spaulding captured first and third, tying the score at 3 7 a piece. After the 3 Meter diving. event, Brian Field and Matt Baumgartner were able to put Union ahead by 15 points. Later in the meet, Field qualified for the National Championships in the 1 Meter event. Like the women, the men had a sweeping event, the 100 Free. Chris Riley, Pete Spaulding and Scott Bowden walked away with 16 points, sur- passing Hartwick and leaving their opponents no opportunities for victory. Mike Humphreys, Jeff Fawcett, and Eric Menard continued the lead in the 200 Back. Following the Backstrokers, Kevin Mak- arowski, Than Stuntz, and John Fitzgerald took 10 points from Hartwick in the 500 Free. Mark Anderson, Matt Woodrow, and Mike Macomber followed in the 200 Breast with a subsequent 9 points. Union concluded the meet, beating Hartwick by 63 points, the largest margin of win by Union over Hartwick. The Swim Team continues its season this weekend against Middlebury, Saturday at 2pm. With the State Championships only a month away, both teams are beginning to envision victory. The teams are laden with talent and a competitive spirit, which placed them first and third at the Championships last year. With the support of the college com- munity, they hope to only add victories to their records. Reunited 'Bad Boys' Root Union to Win Over RPI After being kicked out of RPI in the spring for having too much pride. the Bad Boys of Union College Hockey vowed they would get their revenge. As stated by Konon. 'There is no ''a' rhat those no good punks will !:!<..'1 ·i:l' h..:~t pf mt.:' I \\ill rctum ,111d l WON'T BE DENIED!\ Tllll\. a sacred vow was made over the completion of a bottle of vodka. And the future only held the answer as to whether this vow would ever be tested. With the hockey team mired in a mid-season slump, the Bad Boys knew that they had to take it upon themselves to bring the crowd back to life and inspire the team to v1ctory. One game hung in the balance of the Dutchmen season. A victory over RPI was needed to revive the hopes of an- other playoff return. The Enginerds had recently defeated the Dutchmen in the final minute of a much anticipated rematch at the RPI campus. The pride of the hi~ller order took a major blow over this catastrophic event. The B;ul Boys seemed to be their only hol't:. On a recent episode of Lar 1 y King Live, Dimitri Konon announced: \It looks like the Union team could use a good dose of the Bad Boys. It looks like the team could use a good kick in the butt. and we're the ones who can give it to them.\ You know the sib'llS that say \Do not break glass except in case of emergency\? WelL let's just say the glass was broken! A plane touched down at Al- bany Airport late on Thursday night. This plane carried an origi- nal Rad Roy nf Union hockey. Paul \Red Crov/' Schweiger. The Red Crow had learned that the team was on a skid and returned to bring the pride back to the stands. TI1rough four canceled flights and a five hour bus trip, the Enginerds tried to deny Red Crow's return to his home and native land. But it just wasn't going to happen. Stepping off the plane, a small troop of the Bad Boys awaited the arrival of Red Crow to prevent any more sur- prise attacks. No chances would be taken to assemble the Bad Boys together again. But unusual things started to happen soon af- ter Red Crow announced to the troop: \I guarantee victory tomor- row night!\ Ed Farmer, a forty-eight year veteran at Niagara-Mohawk's Schenectady power grid, noticed an unusual surge of power at this time. \I've never seen anything like it in my entire sixty years at the plant.\ Little did he now, that the Bad Boys were all within one- hundred miles of Achilles Rink. Ed Fanner is a horse's ass. After disposing of the RPI band earlier in the day. the Bad Boys marched together into Achilles Rink. As one Union Co1lege pro-. fessor said to another: \Those guys look like they're about to induce a riot.\ But the Bad Boys kne\v that war was upon us be- cause this was Judgment Day. and only the strong would survive. The capital of Montana is Helena. The attitude of the Bad Boys ap- peared to have transferred into the hockey team because, \Players with pride are the last to surren- der!\ After going down by a goal to these circus freaks, the Bad Boys were not going to let RPI take the fans out of the game. With this, the fans got more into the game with every cheer, and the players seeined to respond by knocking every Engi11erd on the ice flat on his ass. No player was safe, including the RPI goalie who had a bounty on his head. Mo- ments later, Union scored by run- ning the picket fence, thus caus- ing a barrage of citms fmits to fall from the ceiling of the terror dome. \Tradition. TRADITION! TI1e mama, THE MAMA! ... \ The attack continued unabated even as the refs continued to make poor calls. Referee Cadman was told not to quit his job at Foot- Locker and, thus, he responded by giving the Bad Boys fifty per- cent off all Air Jordans in stock. He also noted that this rink, un- like the rival's facility, has respect for all who come to watch the game. This rink does not give its guest's cheesy seats where they can't even see it. The Bad Boys retum was a vic- torious one. Just like a good buzz. all good things must come to an end. Even though the Bad Boys reunion is over, it does not mean that the chaos at the hockey games should fade away. Always remember what home-ice advan- tage really means. Gary speaks the tmth. Need a Tuxedo for the Bicentennial Gala? Marlon's Tux Connection $35 rental if you mention Union College 1759 State Street Schenectady 374-2889 I ,\;j i I 1 1 • : I ! l ;,; ~· ~ ii ~ l ''j .,. l ,<· )

I , I ;; H .. , ... l I ; .. , . • SPORTS January 19, 1995, page 25 Track and Field Tries to Get in Shape at Meet by Mike Leding Concordiensis Staff This past weekend at Union, the Women and Men's Track and Field Teams competed against Wil'limns, Hamilton, N.Y.U., and St. Rose. This was the first meet of the indoor season used to gauge where the team stands now while they run their ways into shapefortheoutdoor season. The wmnen placed third out of the five teams with 30 points, and the men placed fourth out of the five with 35 points, nine points out of a tie for second which was held byHaniilton and St. Rose with 44 points. The top five in every event placed. Union's results were as follows. In the field events for the womeil,. freshmen Tamara Saukin placed first in the long jump with a leap of 4.65 meters and second in the triple jump go- i11g 9.61 meters, in to the pit. Alison Gonyeau placed fifth in the long jump with a bound of 4.07 meters. Julie Finnan placed third in the shot put with a throw of 30' 1 0\. Nadine Filosi tied for third in the high jump gliding threw the air over the bar at 4 '4\. Suzanne Johnson placed fourth in the 20 lb. weight throw with a throwofl8'11\. In the women's running events, Nadine Filosi lead the way as usual by placing in a plethora of eyents starting with the 50 meter dash, in which she placed third with a time of 7 .26s.. She, then, proceeded to get first in the 50 meter high hurdles with a time of 8.44s . .She followed these two by showing some stamina in the 300 meters, finishing third in 4 7 .2s, thus rounding otit the only scoring in the women's running evet~ts. In the men's field events, big inan Rich Pulver placed first in the s·hot put with a throw of 50'10\ qualifying him for Na• tionals along the way and de- stroying the closest throw by 4 '6\. In the triple jump, Mike Matt in finished third by jumping 11.96 meters, andArashfinished fourth with a leap of 11.31 meters. In the 35 lb. weight throw, Jon Gainor placed fourth . with a throw of 40' 1 0\. In the running events, Dave Riggi, coming off a season end- ing hamstring injury, started where he left off bursting to the finish line in the 50 meter to win with a time ·Of 5.87s, also plac- ing in the 50 meter were Kojo Attah with a time of 6. I 8s. to fin- ish th1,rd, finishing fifth was Shuron Morton in 6.21 s. These men are three-fourtl1s ofthe 400 meter relay team that placed last year in outdoor states, the other being Jon Simon who transferred to Com ell. If they find a replace- ment for Jon, they look to be on schedule for another fantastic year. In the 300 meter dash, Riggi placed third in a time of 39 .l6s. In the 1000 meter mil, Jay Goldberg placed fourth with a time of 2:49.59. Jay also an- chored the 4x8'00 meter relay team that edged N.Y.U. by 0.3s to finish fourth in a time of8:54.3. In the 1500 meter run, Nick Conway placed third .in a time of 4:16 followed by Seth Rudin in fourth in a time of 4:17. Seth had a difficult year last year it is nice to see him off and running once again. In all it was a good tune up for the team. A few people were missing due to illness and inju- ries, when everyone that intends to nm starts showing up, the teams should be back on the track of progress that they laid down last spring. Union Woman competes in the long jump (Joslr Haines!TC) Men's relay competes against Hamilton last weekend (photo by Josh Hailles/Tile Concordiensis) Men's Hoop Loses Three StraightDespite Poulis' Efforts: by Andre Cook Cmztributing Writer This past weekend, the Union Col- lege Men's Basketball team traveled 300 miles north to play Bates College and. Colby College. On Saturday night, after traveling on a bus for 6 hours, Union played a tough 6-2 Bates team. Despite the long trip, the team got off to a quick start. Led by their 23 point per game scorer and senior co-captain Sam Poulis and senior Marcelo Tellez, the Dutchmen got off to a 16-Slead. Bates fought back and led by nine at the half 47-38. Coming into the gmne the Dutchmen knew this would be a high scoring game because Bates was averaging over 90 points per gmne, so the high halftime score was no surprise. In the second half, the Dutchmen tightened their defense and immedi- ately got back into the gatne. Poulis and Tellez, who finished with 37 and 26 points respectively, continued to lead the way. As expected, the game came down to the final possessions. With Bates leading by one point with 20 seconds left, Union's offense was broken down, but Jamie Haver found himself wide open in the left corner behind the three point line and buried his only field goal of the game. This put the Dutchmen ahead by two with 11 seconds left. Bates then came down the court and looked to their star Brad Whipple. Sophomore Shola Richards, who played his best minutes of the year, blocked Whipple's shot, but the ball fell into a··Bate's players hands under the basket, and he tied the game with 1.5 seconds on the clock. Ut1ion could only get off a desperation shot The Men's Basketball Team in an earlier game against Williams (file photo) at the buzzer and was headed for overtime. In overtime, a fati!,'lted Union squad fought valiantly, but Whipple and clutch foul shooting by Bates hurt the Dutchmen, and they lost 95-90. This loss was the second straight heartbreaker for the Dutchmen. Last weekend, the men lost in the finals of their tour- nament to Gettysburg on a 35 foot desperation shot at the buzzer. After losing two games like this in a row, the Dutchmen traveled still further north to play an 8-3 Colby team. A Colby team that won 22 games last year and par- ticipated in the N .C .A.A. touma- ment. Union gave an uninspired effort and lost to Colby 81-61. Union was once again led by Poulis with 22 points and seven rebounds. Reinis Kanders added 17 points and five rebounds. The men's record now stands at 7-6 having lost their last three. The next game for the Dutchmen is on Saturday at Kings Point. HOOP NOTES On November 22, Dutchinen coach Bill Scanlon became only the 36th Division III coach to achieve 300 victories .... Also, Sam Poulis reached a milestone by scoring his l OOOth point against Ithaca on Dec. 3. Sam is only the 12th player in Union his- tory to achieve this .... This past week Poulis was honored for his outstanding play by being named E.C.A.C. player of the week.

January 19, 1995, page 26 Union College jerseys ·with numbers on the back ap .. peared on the ice at Achilles Rink on Friday night. They were dressed like the Union Hockey team, the numbers and names on the back of each jersey were similar and the guy standing behind the people on the bench looked like Coach Delventhal~ sans the sports jacket The mu- sic was the same, the public address guy was the same, even the two guys in the WRUC booth were the same. Everything seemed the same. Then~ these pegple be .. gan to play hockey. And then it was realized thn,t$ing~ were not the samet .. O~fiilitely·not tb,;y same. Th'i~)~r;,. tainly was .. not the Uni{)n~.H'<lckey team we bad.\~@~t~~ last two months. This tea.rn played with spirit~ ch~~a~ and fire. This was a tel:lt11 unlike any 'teartlWe had *~~n: previously, although they looked the sa1,11e. '·· · And when the lights went out at Achilles about three ·hours later with the echoesof~~eatlal·stran~s of\Happy Trails·~ still bouncing off'the ~p(;)'{}: ceiling~ the score book said that Union had defeated the RPI Engi- neers by a score of 5 .. 2. What? Come again? It indi- cated that Union had outshot RPI 4J .. 16fot the game, including a 15 .. 2 margin 'in the third peribd~ Uni~ndid that? It also revealed that Union did not allow RPI'tcv score a third period goat Couldrthr$'1\Je true? Aj1pa~ entl)t ~Q. ~Ti~J!IY~.i~fSAlJ.,1Q~:W¥~Jlf.;; this was going .to be. another .tlne .. 4),fdthose,·RBI~:Uttion games. Lots ofhype. lots: of omnges;·tittle·<ltope~ 13ttr~by the end of the first period, Union had countered, scorM ing as many goals as they did the entire preyious week~ end. And when RPI cut their J .. llead to 3 .. 2in.tl\~ooc .. ond period, the Dutchmen did not.relentt.as.tlrey·ofte.th' do. They made it 4-2, and then 5 .. 2, ····and then ... celebration. They overcame an eight game winless streak, a fan base that was losing its patience with the mounting losses, a horrific officiating crew, and a Union College coaching staff change of garb. But questions obviously remain WhichUrtionteam will show up this weekend? Can they SU$t~*tthis mo- ' mentum? Can they use this vi<;tqfiJo }!atavHlt'thern ,out ··· kn. ,. · · ··u? T ... of the ECAC cellar, a.pJace tht:Y· <-·9»' ~ltQQ we;, \·.~· there any reason for anyone ot1t~.r>th,an.l:.revorK0etlig · · to he in between the pipes untill99·9? And; p¢rhaps, most importantly, do : stay with th~ SWeaters, Or aQ .. ft .. ;~,f-1.·11···} .(',~~t}r~~r~t,·~ • with the sportqQ~ts? T , : .. is clear, tile rnake or breakpOtint•for tl$issaasculana. . possibly for the college careers of l:Jn:ion •iiO'okey~s fitt-\ est is now. Otherwise~ things willjustgo oh,.ti~iilS ~~e same. SPORTS Women's Basketball Suffers Tough Losses by Lee Schachter Associate Sports Editor lt was a tough \veek for the Union women's basketball team. It star1ed out last Wednesday with a loss against a solid Williams team. That loss was followed by two more this weekend at distant Colby and Bates in Maine. The week was not without its posi- tives, though. Last Wednesday, Union went up against a Williams team that averages almost five feet ten inches. a very big- and strong- team. Union averages just over five feet seven inches. WiHiams, also. has four six-footers, whereas Union has just one- Amy Dougherty. With that in mind, and even without that in mind, Union had a good showing against a perennial powerhouse. It was a rough start for the Dutchwomen, as they quickly fell behind by a score of 15-4. After that though, the team started con- centrating on their defense and were able to keep the pace for the rest of the first half. At halftime, Andrea Pagnozzi had scored ten and Tonya Capparello had scored six, and the score was 39-24, with Williams leading. Union opened the second half just as they had opened the first half-sluggishly. Williams started the half with a 25-13 run that put them up by a score of 64-37. But the Dutchwomen never gave up, and ended the game with a 14-7 spm1 of their own. Williams won the ga1ne. 78-58. Amy Hitz had ten second half points, Pagnozzi had 15 overaU, and Capparello 12. Dougherty had five points and 3 blocked shots,,.and Sara Gower had 2 points and 5 steals. Deb · Montano, Lisa Schofield, Rachel Morgan, Marcie Heffernan, Jen Lelas, and Melissa Maguire added streng perfonnances. This weekend, the team trav- eled over seven hours to get to Maine to play against Colby and Bates, On Saturday, against Bates, Union had a tough time getting over the long bus ride, losing by 19 points. Pagnozzi played an especially strong game, but Bates had a field goal shoot- ing percentage of over 50% in the first half to put Union behind to stay. Union rebounded with a Chet's strong perfonnance against Colby on Sunday, as they played good defense all garne long and were able to tie up the ball game with just 30 seconds remaining. How- ever, Colby pulled out the victory by scoring, getting a steal in the last few mo1hents of the galne, and then adding a couple of free throws to win by the score of 65- 59. Union had a very good all- aroundperformance in this game, especially sophomore Amy Hitz. Said senior Marcie Heffernan, \We were happy with the im- provement we made over Saturday's game, but we were still disappointed that we couldn't pull out the victoty.\ TI1ere are no home games this week, but Union will travel to Hamilton on Thursday (today) and to Binghamton on Saturday. It's sure to be a lot offtm. so come on out and support the team!!! January 29 Super Bowl 6 pm- 9 pm Free Wings & Pizza Bar Open Athletes of the Week: Swiminers McCarthy· and Makarowski f)y Mike Leding Concordiensis Staff This week we have co-athletes of the week and they just happen to be boyfriend and girlfriend. Once again this year the Union College women and men's swim- ming teams are barreling towards state thrashing opponents. The women and men teams are being lead respectively by freshmen sensation Megan Me Carthy and last year's All-American sopho- more Kevin Makarowski. These two athletes have taken different roads to their stardom. Megan, from Bethany, CT, has 1iot swam since her sophomore year in high school due to almost career threatening back injuries. She strained tendons along her vertebrae diving into the pool as a freshmen in high school. Megan showed enough potential from that freshmen year to stHI be one of the top recruits for the wo111en 's squad. This past week- end against Hartwick; a meet in which the women dominated 150- 90, Megan won all three of her events. She won the 200 Inter• mediate in a time of 2:17.4, the 200 Fly in 2:19.2, and the 200 Breast in 2:32.3. All these times have qualified her for the State Meet, and her time in the 200 Breast has qualified her for the B cut at Nationals. Kevin is from New Hartford, Megan McCarthy N.Y., as are many other past and present swimming All-Ameri- cans, such as the Humphrey brotherss, Hill and Mike. Unlike Bill and Mike, Kevin did not get his strength from shoveling pota- toes; he was not as lucky. Kevin had to spend many hours in the pool to develop the talents that made him a proven winner last year, and he is right on track to eclipse those feats this year. This past weekend, the men's team also ravaged Hartwick's team 150-80. Kevin, as did Megan, won all three ofhis events. TI1ese two are so alike, they even swim the same event He won the 200 Intennediate in 1 :58.5, the 200 Fly in 1:58.3, and the 500 Free in Kevin Makarowski 5:00 flat. He, too, has qualified for states in all three of these events. Kevin, also, holds school records in the 200 Fly, 500 Free, I 000 Free, 400 Intennediate, and four relays, Congratulations to the rest of the women and men's teams and good luck for the rest of the sea- son. Also congratulations to Cory Holbmugh on a terrific game against RPI, his tough play helped the Skating Dutchmen stop their skid.

Skating Dutchmen Get Back on Track With Win Over Engineers by D3gan LaCorte Hockey Correspondent What a difference a week makes! Seven days ago the Skat- ing Dutchmen were in the midst of a seemingly endless losing streak, gearing-up for a home game against the always danger- ous Engineers of RPl Union's last regular season win against the Engitieers came in a 4-3 vic~Ot?'­ on November 5, 1988, while the Dutchmen were still a divisio11 Ill team. Before a sold out crowd at Achilles Rink; the Skating Dutch- men snapped their losing streak by dominating the Engineers, 5- 2. hockey as oflate, putthe puck on the stick of defenseman Andrew Will, who sbot it towards the En- gineer net, Jay Prentice picked up the rebmmd and shot it by the RPI goaltender, for his fourth goal of the 'season. The Dutchmen took the lead seven minutes later, while killing ... off a penalty. Defensem an Reid Simonton picked up the puck deep itt the Dutchmen end and put it on the stick of captain Cory Holbrough. Holbrough btoke into the RPI zone alone, and put it by the En~ gineer goaltender, for his seventh goal of the season and a 2-1 Union lead. The Dutchmen extended their lead to 3-l, when a Troy Stevens shot deflected •off a defender'.s stick and into the RPI net, with Andrew Will assisting on the goal. Tlte Engineers cut the Dutchmen lead to 3-2, by the end of the second period. SPORTS January 19, 1995, page 27 l11e Engineers opened the scor- ing four minutes into the period, while on the power-play. RPI's lead wouldn't last long, as the Dutchmen special teams ac- counted for two first period goals. The first goal came eight minutes into the period, while the Dutch- men were on the power-play. Sophomore Ryan Donovan, who has been playing exce11ent In the past the Dutchmen have had trouble protecting leads in the third period, but this was not the case as the Union defense was excellent in tile final period. The Seabrook Satterlund completely fools RPI defender i11 Union's 5-2 wi11. (Scott Druckemiller/TC) RPI ·'I 1 e-2 Uftlon - 2 1 2 - s First Period -1, RPI, Clarke 10 (Roeho..-, H•m ... lin), 4:30 (pp). 2, Uni.on, Prentice 4 <Wtu, Dono- vanl. 7:59 <pp). 3, Union, Holbrough7 (Simonton), 15:02 ($h). Penalties- Ford, Unl, 3:3-II;Brlct~;, RPI, . .5:06; Pe.-ardi, RPI, 7:13; Tapper, RPI., 9:00.; Simon- · ton, Uni, 9:18~ Sattertund, Unl, 12:55; Goulet, Unl, 11(:52; Albert, Unl, 16:~0; R•gan, RPI, 18:29; Simon- ton, Unl, 18:29. second Period- 4, Union~ Stevens 3 (Will)# 3:27. 5, RPJ, O'Connor 2 (Perardl, Askew), 7:17. Penal~ fie$- ~egan, API, 2; 45; Boyd, Unl .. 2:~5; Slmonm ton. Unl. 7:33; Albert, unr, 11:59; Sln1onton, Unl, 10:32; Brick .. RPI, 11:55. Thtrd Period - 6 • . Union. Holbrouph a CMon• •ett:h, Sof'terlund),. 7:52 (pp). 7, U.nlon, Monteith • (Stevens), 19:09. Penattles -O'Connor.~ RPI, :31; Regan, RPI, 6:00; Albert, Unl, 9:13; Regan,,, RPI, 14:45; Monteith, Uril, 1.C:45; O'Connor, RPI 1 19:34; Holbrough, Uni, 19:3-c; Taa:tper, RPI, 19:51J Moody, Unl (double minor), 19:51. . . · Shot. on goal - RPJ H-2 -:- 16. Unlo& lt-.1.,.15 .- 41. . . POwer-playC)pporiunrtles- RPI1 of~O; Unlon2 of 6. Goalies - RPI, Masotta, 3-4-0 (41. $bots-36 saves>.Unfon, Koenig, 2-3-0 <16-14). · A- 2,504. Referees - J_ohn Melanson, Mike Noeth. Lines• man- Glenn Cadman·. '•,••: -:·· . ·<-., ::.;··· Dutchmen dominated the Engi- neers in the final period, out- shooting them 13-2, and increas- ing their lead to three goals. Cory Holbrough scored is second goal ofthe game, on assists by Russell Monteith and Seabrook Satterlund, The Dutchmen added an insurance goal, when Russell Monteith scored his eighth goal ofthe season, on an assist by Troy Stevens. Freshmen goalie Trevor Koenig recorded his third win of the season and has been the goalie of record in both of Union's league wins. Union's penalty killing was excellent versus tl:te Engineers killing off all ,but one of RPI's ten power-play oppor- tunities. Sophomore fotwards Craig Reckin, Pat O'FJal1~rty~ and seniors Cory Holbrough and Chris. Albert were all key in Cl1arlie Moxham (with tile puck) leads Bill Moody (S) and Pat O'Flauglrerty down the ice. Union's great penalty-killing. In addition the Dutchmen out-shot the Engineers by a wide margin of41-16. 1l1e victory over the Engineers upped the Dutchmen's league record to 2-5-2, a record which must be improved if the Dutch- men intend to make the playofTs. This weekend the Dutchmen travel to New Haven to face-off against the Bulldogs of Yale. Hockey Statistics Cory Hollwouth Troy$ttvtns Chris Albert Andrewwm Ruu Monteith Chris Ford Chlrl'- Molfhlm RVIft Donoven . Jty P\'ntlct John $1cfftsld · Dean Goulet Rtld. SfrnOnlorl .Stabrook StHtrtunct koHBoyct Crila Aeekln Jamie Antoine (';hrla Hancock LVIOIYIIII am·Moodv Shine Holungl Chad ThompSOn Greg IJuchlnan Pet O'F'-harty aoe Lallie Trevor Koenig Mlkt G•llant BENCH LUIGI VIlli Trtvor Koenig Mike G•llant lltetrd: Not ICAC, 5+2 wer•n scoatNG ., I APJIPIM 15 • lO 11 14 15 ~- 13 16 • 15 ., • 15 24 lS 5 10 15 • 15 I 61412 14 5 7 12 20 15 • • • • ,. 1' 714 l5 • 2 ' 2 12 I 3 6 2 15 0' .,. 1414 540 13 0 4 .ClO 12 0 .. .. • n 1 o 1 1 5 0 1 1 • 14 01111 5 0 0 0 2 110 0 010 6 0 0 0 2 4 0 0 0 ' 4 0 0 0 .. 10 0 0 0 12 6 0 0 0 0 7 0 0 0 0 5 0 0 0 0 15 2 GOAL TENDING GP MillS GA SO 5 305 15 0 7 317 16 0 5 217 21 0 '\ 3 0 0 2 3 1 1 1 2 1 0 I 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 w 2 3 0 SHG WG t/- 2 0 H 0 1 +10 3 ' +2 0 0 +I 0 0 +I 0 I +I 1 1 -2 0 0 -3 0 0 -3 0 1 -2 0 0 +12 0 0 -· 0 0 -· 0 0 +2 0 0 0 0 0 -1 0 0 -2 0 0 0 0 -2 0 0 -3 o a -1 0 0 0 0 0 _, 0 0 -2 0 0 0 0 L T OAA 2 ' :us 3 0 3.D2 3 ' ... 39 College Hockey USA Coaches Top 10 Poll TEAM PTS REC LAST I. Maine(9) 99 I9-l-5 I 2. Michigan (I) 82 15-4-0 4 3. Boston Univ. 78 14-4-3 3 4. Colorado Coli. 77 18-6-0 2 5. Bowling Green 58 14-6-1 6 6. Michigan State 52 13-5-2 5 ?.Brown 30 I0-4-0 9 8. Denver 24 14-7-1 7 9. Clarkson 17 11-5-2 10 10. Minnesota 12 12--8-2 8 Others Receiving Votes: Wisconsin, New Hampshire, HatVard

' -~ ~ ' {>( ' January I 9, 1995 PAGE 28 ' • Skaters End Slide With a Dominating 5-2 Win Over Route Seven Rival RPI photo by Scott Druckemiller/The Concordiensis

January 19, 1995 PAGE 28 ' • Skaters End Slide With a Dominating 5-2 Win Over Route Seven Rival RPI photo by Scott Druckemiller!fhe Concol'diensis

......... ' ........... ' ' ·. ·•··.· .: .· · .. · · Student ·Farlllll Ele~ti~~s ~ 1J'age ;5 · .•.. ··••· ·•·•··· .·· ...••.. ~ , , ' , '• _. \ , • \ , • , ,, , • • , , , , , 1 ' • • ', '• o , , , '\ •, , ' 1 • , ' ' • ', • •' , ' The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Celebmting Our Bicentennial Volume CXXIV, Number XI Nottto 0 . · .. 'Pen 1n One Month by Caroline Paine News Editor The NoH Memorial will be colllpleted on time. After many months of construction, the res- tor:-~tinn of the only si\le.:cn sided builchng in the northern hcmi- 'Phcre will he ready f<>r its r.:dcdi- . c Schenectady, New York January 26, I 995 The J\ J. Mmtirri Construction Cornp;my h:Js almost fnlfillcd tl1cir C(Jiltract pfr . .:-,lf1rill!! the his- tlllical building. ·nle Nott's stotH! C\terior st-ructure has been rein- forced and the marble interior wal.ls have been buffed and pol- ished. The iro11 work on both tl~e inside and outside of the build- ing has been restored and re- placed. The stain glass studded ceiling is repaired. The building is now handicap accessible, heated at1d lighted. Workers puttin!J tltefinisMng touches on tile inside of tile Nott Memorial .. (photo by Josh Haines for Tlie Concordiensis) \It will be about two weeks until everything is fine-tuned,\ said Project Superintendent Ed Whalen. All that r-emains to be completed is a thorough cleaning, a paint job and the floor tiling re- placements. \The tile for the· floorit1g was back. ordered,;, Whalen said. ''It shouldbecom- ing in today [last Tuesday]. We can then finish the floor. After that, a general cleaning is needed to make it look pretty.\ After the A.J. Martini Com- pany completes its 'fine-tuning', the Nott will be prepared for its penn anent campus function. \The . Nott is intended to be anembodi~ ment of what Union is, a place of stttdy, exhibition and meeting and association,\ said Exhibition Con- sultant David Hupert. Tables and chairs will be moved to the upper level to create a study area. TI1e building will be open late hours although it has not yet been deter- wita,re· cThey are · · th:e end of the Last the sorwiti·~s . of, . Jifltlt.'!·lSba:xtttr.C;K~ 'll~Ur> . wcmld fi they are not invited back OnioncOl:le~lleJrl their~nuat ·hopeftdly ctear. rtnl 'tb.rwtt of to a llouseorifthey do not get a Rush Weekto'l'ecruit wotnen of.·,.: · ... hjd, &usltees · are assured that the. .. .. ·· ' 't.1l~ir·soij$idife. will not end if t4!:t~~~\'·w~ll\l''lb·· remain ind~u~ ,. \'f'~ mined if the building will house an all night study. TI1e second floor wi11 house an exhibition space. Display cases will be installed to host exhibits of Union's history, art, science and borrowed exhibits form pri ... vate cotlections and museums. \Union•s First 200 Years\ will be the first to be displayed in this space. It will consist for objects and images pertaining to the Bi- continued on page 5 What is ·the Web? by Breton Saunders Concordiensis Staff By now most everyone has seen one of the AT&T commer- cials where a student is reading a book on a computer screen from a foreign library. AT&T is cor- rect in stating \It's coming,\ but in fact they do not melltion that a tremendous amount of infonna- tion is already available electroni- cally Recently, guest spe:1ker .Jessica Adelson. class of I 989. came to Union to speak on the \lntemct r-:,.plnsion.;, Adelson's discussion focused on a cnnHllll- nicatinns system that runs on the internet. This conm1unications syst~m is called the \World Wide Web\ or WWW for short I Jntil recently. the intcmct ''as 'cry limited due to a lack of cas;. usc and access. The web uses multi- format documents which may consist of text, sound-clips, graphics, and \MPEG\ nwvies. Although any format of infonna- tion could always be transmitted through the internet, the revolu- tionary improvement with the web is the method in which this infonnation can be accessed. In- stead of typing cryptic commands to hunt for infonnation on the intemet, the web allows users to point and click their way around from site to site and document to document. While previous sys- tems, such as Gopher, allowed users to easily navigate between sites. they were not multi-media systems (i.e. they did not allm\ graph1cs, sound etc. to be casil) accessed). The v•eb incorporates all of these things, making it much more appealing and usable by the general public. Unlike E-Mail. web docu- ments are not transmitted be- tween people. r:Jthcr they arc made publicly availabk on a '\\ebscncr\ People u:-c a '\\cb bnmser\ (such as l\1osa1c) tore- quest documents frum the ·\, cb scr\'er\ (commonly rcfc1Ted ttl a~ a site) The brPHs.:r 1~ soft\\ an: that nms on a personal cnlllputcr. and the intcmct acts as the link bet\\Cell the \\Cb Sei\CI and the contitwed 011 page .J ,----------·-·---·-- Index N·ews ···············~········ 1-5 ~ ~ 18: •••••••••••••••••••.••••• () Science ........................ 7 OP/ED ........................ 8 Letters ................... 9-10 Features .................. Q. II Living ....................... 12 Personals ......... a ... ou•• 13 ca.Jendar ••ueuoeu ....... 14 Sports .................. 15-16

• ! onrnrbi.ensis The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 C..'lebrating Om· Bicentennial Volume CXXIV, Number XI Nottto Open in One Month hy Caroline Paine .\'ews Editor I he ~ott l\lcnwrial \1 ill bc 1.<'111j1k·fl'd 1111 ti111c 1\tkr m;Jil\ I \.1 t l I l'' I·, ' '' \ ' 'r I' ! r r:rl'' I'' II,. 1 r It . .' : · ... :\'- ' ' f·· ,. ,' ,,, Schenectady, New York January 26. 1995 ,,,,. \ I \L:t1111 ( l>lh!IUL:!'h•~l ( ·. ':;•.;10\ 1 :.1' .i!lil<l'>l i·iltJikd : . :; ! \.I': ill d \.: ' 't :,;.!<'I Ill~· I II L' I'\- ~. ·n~. .d hlllldlll~' I ilc :--.;, 1!1., ''~'\.: c·\h.ll•>l <;lftll.(lill h.t~ hCI.'Il IL'IIl- f,•I'L't:d and the marble rnterior \all s have been buffed ami pol- l~heu. The iron work on both the inside and outs1de of the build- ing has been restored and re- placed. The stain glass studded ceiling is repaired. The building is now handicap accessible. heated and lighted. Workers putting the finishing touches 011 tile inside oftlze Nott Memorial. (photo by Josh Haines for The Concordiensis) \It will be about t\VO weeks until everything is fine-tuned.\ said Project Superintendent Ed Whalen. All that remains to be completed is a thorough cleaning, a paint job and the floor tiling re- tat{teit to· emfl¢i'ltt:t1fll71! placements. ''The tile for the tl ooring was back ordered,'' Whalen said. \It should be com- ing in today [last Tuesday]. We can then finish the floor. After that. a general cleaning is needed to make it look pretty.\ After the A.J. Martini Com- pany completes its 'fine-tuning'. the Nott will be prepared for its Collegi! tt!!lltt1f{tnity atJ(I.ttl process. TltfS article uses i1t-- . formatiml given to tts by tftt)S~ of going 'to parties where hors womeu· wl#.i rusfled. d'o'ettvres ancl refh~shments are Last week the sororities of served. Here is a qnick 1 .and Union College held their annual hopefully dear run down of Rush Week to recruit women of events. pennanent campus function. \111C Nott is intended to be an embodi- ment ofwhat Union is. a place of study, exhibition and meeting and association.\ said Exhibition Con- sultant David Hupert. Tables and chairs will be moved to the upper level to create a study area. Tl1e building will be open late hours although it has not yet been deter- .... :~tnt~clr<ftnt:~1li!til'fo/· .:rtmt:liing\ (the i i{ltomj,sjn;gci!i:f a>btde.hef~re they ~r~giv-eti out)• Rushee-s.are also told that tl~ere is nothing wrong with re- maining independent. TI1ey are told. that it is not the end of the world if they are not invited back to a house or if they do not get a bid. Rushees are assured that their social life will not end if they were to remain indepe11~ dent the freshmen and sophomore Before Rush week actuaUy be-- dassenvhowisbed to join a so~ , gin$, each rilsh:ee is .assigned a rority. Many of these young Rh;q Ct11, a ltnsb Cpims~lot ~ at a , no idea what to ex• ... ·. gen~ral Rt~sll~.· M·~(l.t;n:g;; . Til is . .· hMrd ~any ~~ho~ .· eQttft.$¢!'Ot;;i$,;~r~r~f:t#:fJffsWt:W·~y R~l$llW~ek went as follows: · Nl~his land 2: i11e rushees . viS\ttll'i~mW':~mrtl·n1·ty·. (IDelta · mined if the building will house an all night study. The second floor will house an exhibition space. Display cases will be installed to host exhibits of Union's history, art, science and borrowed exhibits fonn pri- vate collections and museums. \Union's First 200 Years\ 'vill be the first to be displayed in this space. It will consist for objects and images pertaining to the Bi- continued on page 5 What is the Web? by Breton Saunders Concordiensis Staff By now most everyone has seen one of the AT & T commer- cials where a student is reading a book on a computer screen from a foreign library. AT&T is cor- rect in stating \It's comin):!.'' but in fact they do not mention that a tremendous amount of in fonna- tion is already available electroni- cally. Recently. guest speaker .Jessica Adelson. class of 1989. came to llnion to speak on the \Internet Explosion\ Adelson's discussion focused on a comnHr- nicatinns sy~km that mns on the internet. This communications svstcm is called the \World Wide Web\ or WWW for short I In til recently. the intemct \\as \cry limited due to a lack of cas) usc and access. The \\eh uses multi- format documents which may consist of text. sound-clips. graphics. and \MPEG\ n1ovies. Although any fonnat of infonna- tion could always be transmitted through the internet. the revolu- tionary improvement with the web is the method in \\ hich this infonnation can be accessed. In- stead of typing cl)·ptic commands to hunt for information on the intcmct. the \veh allows users to point and click their way around from site to site and document to document. While previous sys- tems. such as Gopher, allm\ed users to easily navigate between sites. they were not multi-media systems (i e. they did not alhm graphics. sound etc. to be easil) accessed). The web incorporates all of these things. making it much more appealing and usable by the general public. U nl i kc F-M a i I. \\ c h doc u- ments arc not transmitted be- tween people. rather they arc made publici) availabk on a \\\ eh server \ People ti,L' a\\\ cb bnm ser\ (such as ;-.. fnsaH.:) !11 1 c- qucst documents from the \\\ eh scrn:r\ (comnHml;. rl'fcnc.l hl ;h a site) The hrP\.\ scr is -.oftv. arc that nms on a personal L<llllplltn. and the intemet ads as tltc link bet\\ ecn the \\ ch sen cr and the continued 011 page -1 Index I Ne\·s ........................ 1-5. I ,\ & f: ......................... () \ Science ......................... 7; OP/li:_D ........................ 8 ! Letters ................... 9-10 \ Features .................... 11 1 (Ji\'iD~ ••••••••o•••e•••••••••• 12 I Pet·sonals .................. 13 · Calendar .................. 14 Spor·ts .................. 15-16

' . ' . January 26, 1995, page2 Any events that clubs or individuals who like advertised in the campus info box should be submitted to Box 2577, and marked as campus info. The service is free to all members of the college community. Submissions should be received no later than 4PM on the Monday before publication. NEWS. ' '. Campus Safety Department Weekly Incident Summary TUESDAY, JANUARY 17. 1995: l:09 AM West College · · 11 : 15 AM West College 11 :00 AM 1128 Lenox Road 6:49. PM Achilles Lot SECURITY HAZARD: Improper use ofSouth side exit. · THEFT: 'fable and chair stolen from West Dining haH. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Lawn accidentalny damaged by vehicle that got stuck in the mud. TfiEFT: Visitor's vehi~le forcibly entered, Pocketbook and large amount of cash stolen. SPD notified. Area searched. WEDNESDAY. JANUARY 18, 1·995: 12:45 AM Chi Psi FIRE ALARM1Li'FE SAFETY VIOLATION: Pull box 5~oo AM 3;46 PM 8:39PM 9:34PM 9:45PM West College Dutch Hollow ' . Fraternity South College· . South College intentionally activated. Life Safety Violation Ndtice filed. SECURJTY liAZARD: Possible theft of food ·items through·. security ;ga~e enclosure.· THEfT: Items stol~n from ·student's backpack which was ieft un,a#ended in ope~ area .. S.EX OFFENSES: Alleged offensive exhibitionism. FUtE ALARM/LtFE SAFETY VIOLATiON: Pull box thtentionally activated on lst tioor. Life Safety Violation · Notice tiled.' SUBSXANCE ABUSE: Possession of rnariju~na and ·· paraphernalia. Conduct Char~es tiled. THURSDAY, .JANUARY 19, l995i 2: 10 AM Off CampJ.!S UlSORD~RL Y CONDUCT: SPD requested assistance. Alleged disorderly students-Van Vran:ken Avenue. Report filed. SECURITY HAZARD: Exterior doors continually propped open. Life Safety Notice filed. 4:00AM 4:46AM 10:58 PM Chi Psi Alumni Gym Fraternity FlRE ALARM: Fire trouble alert. Work order filed. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Keg on tap. FRIDAY, JANUARY. 20 •. l995: · . ',• ' ·,! t2;00 AM .Oavidspn, . ,J)ROP.E~TY, DAMAGE: Student's room door damageq~Ci!use ~ndet~ri-ni.ned, · ... Ii:.ll AM . 1'2:28 AM 2:40AM 8:25AM 5:20PM 9:17PM ,. • : ·~ : I Edwards House FtelClhouse South College Fieldhouse Lot Chi'HSi•Eot-· ..... Edwards Heuse VANDALISM: Fire exit ~rash bat damaged. . . PkOPERTY:' Abimdoned bicycle left chained in building. VANDAL.ISM: Wall damaged. Garbage strewn on floor. Odor of urine in halls. PARKING: Apparent abandoned vehicle. · Tf,l<EFTt Ski rack stolen• from stt:~denr's vehiCle. -·· ' · ·. · SECURITY HAZARD: Exterior fire door propped open Life Safety Violation Notice filed. 9:32 PM Richmond TRESPASS: Visitor soliciting donation from student. Cash given. Checked area. Subject apparently left campus. SATURDAY, JANUARY 21, 1995: 12:15 AM Fox House FIRE ALARM/LIFE-SAFETY VIOLATlON: Fire-trouble alert caused by tampering with room smoke detector. Life Safety Violation Notice tiled. 1:04AM 1:25AM 1:48AM 2:39AM 3:42AM 3:50AM 4:14AM 3:53PM 11:23 PM South College MISCHIEVOUS BEHAVIOR: Garbage strewn around 3rd floor lounge. Residents cleaned it up. Raymond Area VANDALISM: Vehicle intentionally ramming into garbage dumpster. Vehicle drove from scene. Vehicle identified. S&E area VANDALISM: Light poll! knocked over. College Center area VANDALISM: Shrubbery uprooted. South College FIRE ALARM/LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Pull box South College South College Potter House South College ntentionally activated. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Underage drinking reported as a result of follow-up investigation of false fire alarm. DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Aggressive and threatening behavior among a group of students. Conduct Charges filed. FIRE ALARM: Caused by smoke from-cooking. Work order filed to have kitchen exhaust hood repaired. FIRE ALARM: Fire trouble alert. Received again at 7:28 AM 1122/95. Possible electrical problem. Work order filed for electricians to inspect. SUNDAY. JANUARY 22, 1995: I :32 AM Fox House ASSAULT: Physical altercation aniong students. Minor injury. Conduct Charges filed. 6:28AM 8:25AM 7:55PM 9:45PM 10:21 PM Social Science Bldg. FIRE ALARMr~ Fire trouble alert. Cause undetermined. Possible electrical problem. Also received an alert at 4:00 AM 1/23/95. Work order filed. West College Lot VANDALISM: Dining t;;_ervice van window broken. West College FIRE ALARM/LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Fire trouble alert. Caused by damage to 3rd floor hail detector. Fox House THF:FT: Student's shirt stolen from laundry room. Davidso11 House SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Odor of marijuana reported in halls. Unable to determine source. MONDAY, JANUARY 23. 1995: 12:25 AM South College VANDALISM: Wall, previously reported damaged, has been further damaged. 12;47 AM I l :30 AM 4:30PM Fox/Davidson area WEAPONS: Report of sound like gunshot or firecracker. Area searched. SPD notified/responded. No other reports received. No one in the area. Report unconfirmed. Raymond/Potter LotPARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized. Persistent College Center unregistered violation. Freshman Vehicle. Improper parking decal displayed. Conduct Charges filed. HARASSMENT: Student verbally harassed by unknown person. Incident occurred 2:00pm. Suspect left area.

NEWS January 26, 1995, page 3 U.nion Mourns Loss of Great Scholar range,\ Professor Duncan said, and a great deal of background. Both Professors Benjamin and Duncan said that Professor Robbins had many facts at his disposal and that he saw things in an infonned way. One of Pro- fessor Robbins' students, Michael Kramer, has an exhibit up iif the Arts Atrium now. by Emilia Teasdale Colltributing Writer Professor Daniel Robbins died Saturday, February 14, of can .. cer. He came to Union in 1980. He was hired as the Chairperson of the A11s Department, a Mod- em A1t professor and the honor· ary May l.BakerChairofVisual Arts. Before coming to this school, Professor Robbins taught at Yale, Harvard, Dartmouth, Williams and Brown. He got his bachelor's degree at the age of nineteen, from the University of Chicago, received his master's degree from Yale University and his doctoral degree from the New York University Institute of Firle Arts. While working for all his degrees he pursued a career as a painter. He also rec~ived a Fulbright fellowship to the Insti- tute of At1 and ArchaeolOf:,'Y at the University of Paris. and became the director of the Museum of Art at Rhode Island School of Design. He was a trllstee on the boards of the Canadian Centr.e for Architec- ture in Montreal, the American Federation of Arts and the Mu- semn of Fine Arts in Boston, and the Foundation Albert Gleizer in Paris. He was honored with a National Endowment for the Hu- manities Se1iior Fellowship. a- Guggenheim Fellowship and an American Council of Learned Societies grant. When Professor Robbins came to Union College the Visual and Pe1fonning A11s department were · under one chair. He saw that the department needed to be strengthen and that both arts, per- fanning and visual, had there own importance. It was duri11g his time as chairtlrat the Arts Building was renovated. In that renovation the print studio was created, as well as attacking the sculpture studio to the Arts BuHding and design- ing t.he Arts Atrium, Also as chair, he made some visiting po- sitions into tenure positions, mak- ing the Vistml Arts program more stable. Professor Robbins brought otit- sidetalent to the school. like pho- tographer Aaron Siskind, photog- rapher and curator of the Scagrams Corporation Collec- tion, Richard Pare, architect Pe- ter Eiseuman and New York Times musj.c criHc John Rockwell. He also had an interest in the Nott, and got the building on t}Je National Historic Register, which was a stro11g factor in the argument to make the renova- tions. Not only did he bring in guest speakers, but he was on the search committees who hired both Professor Walter Hatke, painting, and Professor Chris Duncan, . sculptttre. As a professor here. his focus was Modem Art, and most of all Cubism. His signature class, though, was a class called. Intro. to Arts, and he taught the Class with a musician. 1l1ey idea 9ehind it was show the two kii1ds of'art together and to have a class with a scholar and a practitioiler. Pro- fessor Martiu Benjamin, wb.o ;is now the Cl\ait of the·Vi'Sitar A:rts Department and a professor of photograph, said \He was an Art Students Donate $50,00 of Validine to Homeless by Heather Manley & Martin Metz Co11cordiensis Staff . Last week. Union College stu- dents raised over $5000 to feed the homeless in Schenectady. Andrew Chapman, a Union alumnus from the Class of 1994. devised a plan last year for stu- dents to donate $5 from their validine 's declining balance to feed the homeless. Chapman. now a free-lance artist in the New York City. was finally able to get the fund-raiser off the ground this year. The program was a great success. Amy Kessinger, Kate Derosier. Greg Alexander, the Psi-Upsifot1 philanthropy chair. and several other Union College students amassed pages of donators' names after only three days. The $5000 raised by the Vali- Dine Committee to Feed the Hun· g1y will be used to buy food in bulk quantities. This food witl be distributed to local food pantries and charitable organizations. The Committee's philosophy was to approach the student body rather than to receive them. They choice this approach for the sitnple reaso11 that they would yield much greater results this way than simply setting up a Andrew Cllapman '94, organizer of Validine for Homeless drive boot.J1 in the CoHege Center (al- though they set up a booth as well). TI1e comn\ittee posted stu- dent. volunteers at West, Dutch Hollow, Upper-class Dining Hall, all student donnitories, the library, atld also soliciting the help offratemities and sororities. Steve Pearse, Director of Din- ing Services, said the loss of rev- enue to Dining Services is worth while for this cause. Pearse said that other schools frequently give the same type of donation, for- feiting one meal from a meal plan. He commended Chapman for his initiative, calling it a \very generous gesture.\ 1982 photo of Professor Daniel Robbi11s (photo by Martin Benjamill) Historian' \vho liked artists,\ and \he was a professor students coul~ l~am a great deal from.\ Professor Benjamin came to Union only four terms before Professor Robbins was hired and said Professor Robbins '~appreci­ ated photograph as it's own en- tity 'and'as part of the (Visual Arts) program.\ He went on to say that Professor Robbins was able to cut right to the heart ofvery abstract matters and realize the im- portance of the issue, but, most of all \he was not elitist about at1.\ Professor Duncan, who worked with Professor Robbins for about three years, said that Professor Robins had. fl passion for art; and was a great support of all t1w dif- ferent arts; sculpture, photograph, music and so 011. \He had a great Professor Tann, the Chair of the Perfooning Arts Department, said that a wonderful thing about Prof~3$0li Robbins was the way he looked at the campus. \I don't think people were looking at the carnpus as a work of art before Danny came here,\ she said, \he taught us to see the campus .and take pride. (in it.)\ Professor Tann also said th:at Professor Robbins loved words, art and music, he .came to every concert and was wonderful to just have lunch wi.th. •:Although some people where intimidated by Danny's intellect, to his friends he was a most generous and en- tertaining host, with a wide rang- ing enthusiasm for many differ- ent to topics ... as we!J as a sense of humor.\ The last time Professor Robbins taught here at Union was the Fall of 1992: He will be missed, not just by the Arts De- partments but be the Union cmn- munity. Survivors i~clude •his wife; Eugetlia Scandrett Robbins, and two daughters, Juliette and Miranda. There will be no funeral service, and me- morial contributions may be made to the Dartmouth ·Hitchcock Medical Ce11ter's He- matology.and0ncol9gy Section, Levanon, N.H. Rush Uncovered contimted from page 1 to any of the houses. Night 3: The mshees g~ back to the houses they were invited · to (one, two or three of them) for a party that lasts for one hour. After this night the sis- ters once again send certain rushees invitations back to the houses. There is still the possi- bility of a rushee not getting in- vited back. Those who are, have the chance to be invited back to three sororities. How- ever, now they must choose to retum to only two of the houses (or they will retum to one de- pending on the number of houses they were invited back to). Night -1: This is called Pref- erence. Night. TI1e rushee af- tends the parties, each one again lasting an hour. After this night the sisters make the final deci- sion about who they will give \bids\ to. A \bid\ is a fonnal invitation to pledge the soror- ity. The rushees also have to make some decisions. At the end of the evening, the rushee must fill out a card stating which sorority they would prefer to JOitl. On the fifth day, a Rho Chi will come to a rushee's door and extend them a bid to a sorority. It is then up to the rushee whether or not they wish to accept the bid. If they do decide to accept, the rushee will go to a Bid Dinner at the so- rority they received the bid from. Many of the women who rush are nervous about attending these parties because they have no idea what goes on. Basically, the rush- ees enter the sorority house and are greeted by a chorus. After the sis- ters sing, each rushee is ap- proached by a sister and the sister tries to get to know the rushee in the five to ten minutes they talk to her before she is approached by another sister. The most com- monly asked questions ate: 1. Are you excited about msh? 2. What is your major/Do you have a maJor yet? 3. Do you want to go abroad? 4. Where do you live/ Where are you from? 5. Would you like something to drink/eat? Most popular topic: How cold it was when they rushed. Over the course of the week, rushees speak with as many sisters as possible (for short periods of time) over refreshments and sna~ks. Each sorority greets the rushee group with welcome songs that you wind up humming all night long ... this is not to say they sounded bad by any stretch of the imagination. They were actually quite good. The effort that each house put into rush was clearly evident. At each house there was a slide show to represent the \family like\ atmosphere of the house and you could tell every- one really enjoyed themselves. The sisters also put together skits for the rushees. Each house would perfonn their own version of popular songs to create a com- edy.· One house c::vencreated their own talk show. These skits all revolve around the rush pro- cess. This was mainly done to make the rushees feel more com- fortable around the sisters and to \break the ice.\ One big change Rush Week went through concerned the \dress code.\ In past years, rush- ees and sorority. sisters were to dress in semiformal attire, but since last year dress is casual. Another change was that fresh- men were pennitted in the soror- ity houses during Fall tenn. Overall Rush is a week of meeting all sorts of different people and trying to have fun and leave the stress behind. Al- though sotne women are not happy by the time the week is over, most agree that the week is a lot of fun.

·' January 26, 1995, page 4 NEWS Union Witnesses Power ofWorld Wide Web contilluedjrom.page 1 browser. Web documents are typically \hypermedia?' docu- ments. Hypennedia is a combi- nation of \hypertext/' graphics, sounds, and other formats which can be selected a.nd viewed. be very helpful in searching for graduate schools to apply to, or finding jobs. One can traverse the WWW until finding schools and jobs of interest and proceed to find people to communicate with through E-Mail. Some schools even have there application forms '<> ' , I ' \ ' , ·, , > f i f}le Qptions Navigate AhiJiJttite Help 1 j oocumentntle: j Tardi~ Ho 111 e Pa~'e_ · -~~ - · ~V : DocumentURL: f1'1ttp·//tardis.union .edu ·\ ... '\ . . . . ~~ : .[' ........................................................................................................................................................................................ : , I '' I 'l .l ,, 'l ~ I Union College, Schenectady, NY •I ·· i Welcmneto the Union College CSLab .! •' ! l ~ ~' ! ~ : i Information Home Page , i i d '.' .,l Welcomue t 1 o the World Wide Web server ontardis unio11.edu. Tardill. aDecSystem 5000(200 . , running trilL is the main .file and compute server for the Coll\puter Sclen>e Lab at Union I l .; ! College In Schenectooy. NY. 'i ·d d ·' i N)lW: send e-mail'commenv about tlw CSLah ~'Vi 1o www@tardis.W!ion.edu. • i ~ i '· i ~ :.! This Hst of items Is currently available on the tfnlon Colleg~ Col!lputer Sc.len..\!!Home Page: 1 Please dick on any higlllighte<l text to open another document. \ i ~ I Admissions Request Service: i I H • Mmissions.ReqUEstForm. Fill out the form allli anAdmissions,pa:Jket will be·sent to ; \ ::= z you ~ ~ '\ :! H Alumni'lnforma1ion: ·! g I ; ~ § i • 6l!;_nJQ.\.tfJ1!-.!t j_~~tt-· i i ~ ! • Add your ntune and email a:lcll'ess to our Alumni l i=t.. i i ., I • look at theAlumni~emall list.. 'i ~.:..~~ Blcentenn!allrtformatlon: :·1 ~ :! ~' s· I S •··-' ·,; ~ i • .. t::.-emenn at· '?!.~ , ,, ... ' i r~ -~ ...,\'._ft .. ~,..... ~fnw.M'.h ... ~,.f-.i!!-fo : ~ ~ - . - ~ . ; ,~-~::LL!:.?.~~~.?.Lf:i.?.~~] .~~!~~~l.2.P.~!!:::I .2~~!: .. ~~::.L~!gL~;l.~~-~!~~.?.!d g!g.~~-~!~9.~.l . I .... ~ ..... ~.--:- .. ...._, ... ~.,.;.,)\-\~~=---..,':'lo~\»\._,:.,.,~~~~m:-:-n8~ ... :7~~~-..:.~:.:-,..-..\-m..\'=\\:-:-m:-.~m..,\*. .. :-m~~\\::.>.m:-.o.w-~m-..~~~\\\Y:l-.Wo':.\:~~.:r.::-r-.-n.., .. »~.::.'\\'o.:· to improve organization and pre- sentation of research material for CERN. Since its globalintroduc,. tion many groups and organiza- tions have found that presentation of their own material on the web has resulted in wide spread ex- posure of their information. In out wha.t is available on their topic. How can one get access to the web at Union? For students the answer is \not easily at the mo- ment.\ Web browsers require a true internet connection using \Ethemet.. 11 TI1e college dormi- Welcome· to the EE page at Union Coll~ge, Schenectady, N.Y.! i For the time belpg theEE page is availabe at Jtttp:lldragon:union.ejlu ( aMoc Ild)and l.· http:llphoenlx.eecs.unlon.ellu ( a 7100 PowerPC ): In the future proenlx will be the primary \ server. Dowrtlo&:! from pheonlx ts· faster. than from dragon. g X • ' ~ @ r , ' ~ ~ g ' I ~ I ............................................................................................................................................................................. ~'here Is Union College? Electrlcol Engineering lnformatiqn This Is a sensitive pictllr<). Cllckon'any Item for details. • EE Catiliog information - Requirements f1>r B.S. 8lld M.S. degrees am EE courseo. • EEtCS Faculty infonilatioiJ.,- Current faculty research interests. . • .. rr:7 ,.,._. •• , .... ,... · .... r ........ A:~- rr. ......... t.~ ..... --. . .w ~ ... 1 ......... J~ .. ....,. difficult because it requires the user to setuf) a web server and maintain it. Even more important are the ethical q~1estions of what infonnation can be placed on a college mn web server. These questions are t1nfortunately in de-. bate which will hopefully end up in a positive open initiative allow- ing students and faculty te present their research and infonnation on the world wide web. One group dedicated to bringing wide spread use of the web to Union College is a currently unnamed computer club lead by Michael Smil.es and Jason Terpple. This dub is in its startup phase at the moment, how- ever, the club will provide stu- dents with the opportu11ity to leam about WWW usage and hypennedia design and develop- ment. St11dents interested should c.ontact Michael, Jason or myself for further infonnatiqn. Until a web browseris installed for public,use at Union people can explore the intemet with the col- lege maintained·.Gopher server. By clicking .on th~. \gopher\ icon on gr_aphi.0.S··Iab :~omputers, or by . typrn.g·. go.phet ,from.. a VAX or Unvax, :pr01npt one. can explore -the gqphet sites. on. the inten1e.t. . Gopherunforttmat~ly~annot give users any. access ;tRthe .infonna- Union Colleg~ Computer Science and Eleetrical E11gineering Departments' /tome pagesjor tile World Wide Web, tion, graphics,. sounds, movies or any of the. e}l;citing interactive fea- tures of the web, however, it is a start. Additionally gopl'ler can provide users access to the Cam- pus. Wide_, Inf(j)nnation Service (CWIS), which co11tains. campus activities ainongst other infonna..: tion. Students and faculty are encouraged to fir~d o~tt what the intemet, through the use of the Hypertext is a type of document which contains bold faced items that are cross~r~fe~eilceci to other items, ~md~possiBfy oth~r docti- ments. Thus, rlavigatiE>n through the world wide .~~b is done through the use of thes~ links con- necting documents and sites to- gether~ For exan1pie~ 1fthis was a hypertext document,. by click- ing on the bold-faced \Hypertext\ above, a link would be used to take the viewer to another docu- ment describing \hypertext\. Anyone who has used the help facilities on tl1e Macintosh or MS- Windows is already familiar with hypertext, since most help sys- tems are implemented this way. What can the web do for you? The web-can provide infonnation on almost any subject ofinterest. The numberofweb sites grew at rates of !,>Teater then 11,000% in 1993 (shortly after widespread introduction), and in excess of I 000% in 1994. At this rate the amount of material available on the web is growing explosively. To give an example of wlmt is available through the web take a look at the picture of the Union College Electrical Engineering Department's home page. This picture shows X-Mosaic running on a Sun workstation displaying the general selections, '~Where is Union College\ \Catalog info\ \Faculty info\ \Student info\ \News & Mise\ etc. This infor- mation is available to people any• where on the internet using a web browser. Therefore, people from anywhere in the world with ac- cess to the web can look up and find out about Union College's EE depattment, The Computer Science department also main- tains a WWW home page show here. Use of the WWW has can available. as printable \postscript\ files making the application im- medi!ltely avai1able for u~e .. In- ' .~ i • ! I _: l , • ; f • ; • , • ; 1 '_! ~ j ; I •. • : i • formation on <Jcad~mtc mshtu- . ' ' . . ; ' ' ; ', . ' ' .. ~ ' ' tions is only one type of informa- tion available on the web. TI1ere is a lot of professional and re- search information available that · is not related to Computer Sci- ence or Electrical Engineering. TI1e vastness of the information on the web stems from its design which began at CERN, the Euro- pean Particle Physics Laboratory in Switzerland. It was designed fact, the ease of access that the web provides to people has re- sulted in a large commercial i11- . terest in: tl)e-liifeniet ;fifi\it~:e' tn . publishing. and. commetce: ·!'Be- cause of new high power search- ing tools available to web users, the web provides an unbeatable altemative to searching through limited CD-ROMs and libraries for primary source material. In fact, many-people doingresearch for paper writing or seitior projects have used the web as 'the first part of their research to find tory connect'ions have no way of supporting this at the moment, and upgra<fing the donnitqries ·~n1:}>e ·v~[y e~pensi~e.';'Ettieniet connections. are available iti the Steinmetz computer labs, how- ever, due to some technical prob- lems the most common freely available web browser, \Mosaic cannot be iised in the labs yet. The ~~ Office of Computer Services plans to have a *eb browser run- ni11g in. the Graphics Lab· by · spring tenn. Creation of home pages 011 the web is a bit more . WWW and gopher has to offer. For more infonnation on a.ny of the things discussed in this article please send E-l\;lail. to the author at saunderb@tardi:s.union.edu. ·Whitbeck Delivers Phi Beta Kappa Lecture by Michelle Ellis Associate News Editor Caroline Whitbeck, Senior Lecturer and Research Scholar, challenged Union student's no- tions of scientific She asked, \Why do some scientists lie about their scientific research and what are they lying about?\ Dr. Whitbeck addressed many different issues throughout her three part lecture series. Her sec- ond seminar on truth and trust in scientific research proved to be her most controversial seminar. Whitbeck began her lecture by defining what types of scientific misconduct exist. She considered fabrication, falsification, and pla- giarism to be the most common types of misconduct. Whitbeck spent a great deal of time discuss- ing specific cases of misconduct in order to demonstrate to her audience that \scientific research is very valuable and in fact, most of it is quite honest.\ Whitbeck dispelled the myth that large scaled scientific misconduct is taking place. She contended that . \when their has been dishonesty, it has been so poorly handled that massive attention is brought to the proceedings.\ In her effort to educate students about scientific misconduct, Whitbeck focused on the issue of changing standards in scientific research and how this impacts stu- dents. She felt that students were unaware of the impact that changes in research proceedings can have upon them. Whitbeck stated, \Be prepared to tell the truth about what you did; even if what you did is starting to look questionable.\ In a further attempt to enlighteil students about morality and eth- ics in scientific research, Whitbeck stressed how important it is for a student to understand the guidelines pertaining to their research. She encouraged all stu- dents to \find out exactly what is expected of them\ and to be per- ceptive to the \exploitation of stu- dents by advisor and 1 abs.;, Whitbeck also highlighted pro- ceedings for students to follow in case they witness misconduct. Dr. Whitbeck addres~ed of sen· sitive issues in scientific research. She spoke of \the public's ten- dency to misinterpret scientific findings.\ Whitbeck expressed that \the public has a hard time dealing with even the smallest risks.\ However, as a scientist she believes that \one just can not do scientific research.\ As a Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar, CaroJ.ine Whitbeck ~ad­ dressed many sensitive and con- troversial topics. Her seminars were well attended and the audi- ence actively participated in her discussions. 7 BEDROOM HOUSE Available 95-96 *Large-Bedrooms * 2 Full Bathrooms *Modern Kitchen *Extra Closets *Security System *Appliances *Great Porches *Large Yard Call 370-5498 A 21 Year Student Tradition 3 & 4 Bedroom Apartments Also

NEWS January 26, 1995, page 5 Candidate~s for Vice President of Academics Neema· G hazi Rather than·explain what I have accoinplished and what I intend to do, I think that a more telling evaluation of myself would be ap- propriate here. For the ·last year, I have been considering running for a position on the Student Fo- rnm panel. Initially, I doubted whether or not such an opportu- nity couldprovide any advantage to me or any collective body of. students for that matter. I ques- tioned the influence and the im- portance of such a role and I of- ten found mys·e>Jf,~oiwinced• that my voice hadlittle,'ifan~;·bear­ ing on the mat~y admit1istrative decisions at hand. My interactioil with schoo'}• .admh1istrat'ors this year, however. has truly trans- fanned my pessimism into a new, promising sentiment of optimism. I soon discovered the channels from which administrative influ- ence could stem. I found that a well-organized presentation, an . eloquent delivery, sensible nego- tiation and most importantly, an open mind could play an integral role in relaying student concerns and their immediate interests. I feel that my ability to relate on an levels is an essential element of what I consider necessary to hold a position of this magnitude .. A position on the Academic Af- fairs Council and the Student Fo.- vum would previde an outlet for this expression and would ulti- mately serve to help bridge the gap between the students, the fac- ulty and the college administra- ti.oll. I believe that my ability to recoghize potential problems and my unremitting desire to succe:ss- fuUyaddress these problems will assist me· most ~hen having to inake ed1,1cated decisions con- cerning the academic affairs of the students. I promise to serve as a dedicated representative and I can assure you that my consis- tent devotion to this position will be everpresent. Sincerely Yours, Neema Ghazi Leslie R. Douglas My name is Lesley R Douglas. I am a jm'lior majoring in Politi- cal Science. Time and time again Union Col1ege has demonstrated that its students reflect the high- est sfandards of the academic W(}rld. Currently, we sendmore students to. gra,d~tate/profe~sional schools,. and 85% of al:l graduates seeking employment are success- ftJL However, our task is still in- complete, Union College's cur- riculum could he enhanced and expanded to encompass a wider variety of subjects and topics. In the past, sttJdents have recognized this lack of st1bstance and variety in the curriculum. Our response as a stu.dent community has been an initiation of demand for change, In 1992, the student com- munity united in order to demand a curriculum reflective ·Of our multictlltuial community. Our demands were answered with the implementation of the Africana studies program. 1l1is will enable our graduates to compete more effectively in the new global job markets. Today n1ore than ever Union College graduates will need every advantage at their dis- posal to ensure futme success. It is my belief Union College academic standards are among the very best in the nation. In or- der for this tradition of excellence to continue, we will need proper guidance as well as, dedication. I a,m the person to provide it. Ryan Bloom ·I wotdd like to take this opportu- nity to pre,sent myself, Ryan Bloom, as a candidate for Vice- Presiaent of Ac.ademics. As a jmiior, I feel I have enough famil- faritY with academics and pmfes- sors to serve as an affective liai- son between the facttlty and stu- dents. Having participated in a vast array of acadeinic experi- Nott Nearly Rebuilt Continued from page I ce11tennial. The College's origi- nal charter will he among the items shoWil, along with some of Eliphalet Nott's personal affects, and a bong in the shape of the Nott Memorial that fonner senior classes used to smoke with the president in Jackson's Gardens upon graduation. Hupet's favor- ite display is a trunk that once belonged to Herman Vedder, class of 1795. \It is leather and studded like a <Hell's Angel's' biker jacket,\ Hupert said. The ground floor is presently intended to be a gathering space where occasional lectures will take place. \Eventually how it is used will evolve over time,\ said Hupert. No pennanent seating or podium will be installed so that when a person enters the Nott they can see the mosaic floor as it appeared when the building was first constructed. \TI1e building win have three symbolic, yet practical func-. tions,\ Hupert stated. \It will be a place. of gathering, studying, at1d exhibition.\ It will embody the three in,pprtant ~q\~alitie~ that Union, as a whole encompasses. Inside tlie renovated Nott Memoria/; · (Joslt Haines!TC) of another collegiate institution's ences, including such opporturii- and accurately assess what ties as the Term Abroad program Union's strengths are and what and the internships in Albany • 1 weaknesses need to be addressed believethatlhavehadampletime to improve academic Iife. My to pinpoint areas in the currici.J- prin'Iary objective as V.P. of Aca- lum that need improving. With demics ·would be to address the my broad range of experiences, I lack ofdiversity in class selection .,am confident that I could ae~u- and the lack .of sections in those rately represent the student vorce · classe~ for which there is a high on the Academic Affairs Com- . enrollment. Moreover, I believe mittee. that there should be soine degree While at Union, l have served of regularity as to which classes in various committees ranging are offered Fall, Winter, and from the Social Committee to the Finance Committee to Campus Operations, which has given me the experience to know what channels to take in order to achieve results, to know what are feasible objectives to set, and how to initiate legislation and compro- mise between faculty and stu- dents. As a student of good aca- demic standing and an active par- ticipant in the campus commu- nity, I have earned the respect of ·many faculty members. Having earned their respect, they will be open to my criticism and they will take it seriously. Although I might not have as much experience with Student Fomm as other candidates, I be- lieve that I more than make up for it with my enthusiasm and comrnittment. After all, you want someone with objectives and the initiative and dedication to achieve them, not someone who is simply a politician. Having entered Union as a transfer student I befieve that I can bring a new and refreshing per- spective to the position of Vice- President of Academics. Unlike the other candidates, I can com- pare Union's curriculum to that Spring. By making certain classes available each semester students will be better a.ble to plan their academic career at Union College. Another prominent is- sue is the emphasis Union profes- sors place on quotas for class size. There should be some degree of flexibility as to whether a student is admitted into a class even though the quota for that class may be met. If a student shows enough interest in a class, he should Iiot be denied entrance into · that class merely because he had drawn a low lottery number. If elected,. these are just a few of the platfonns I intend to implement. I believe that I have the quali- ties to fulfill the responsibilites of this office, as evidenced by my involvement in the campus com- munity. I hope that you will feel the same way 01.1 Friday and vote for Ryan BJoom. TI1ank You! A Statement for Brandon Declet was unable to be placed because it was submitted in the wrong format Give Its A Heartwarming Experience. Union College Blood Drive Wednesday, February 1, 1995 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Old Chapel To schedule an appointment please sign-up in the College Center or see Lorraine Marra in Student Activities Office.

January 26, 1995, page 6 ARTS&ENTERTAINMENT Theater in the Void ... An Intervention in Downtown Schenectady Courtesy of the Visual Arts Department There will be an exhibition of the work of architect Michael Cramer titled., Theater in the Void: A Downtowh intervention in Schenectady, New, fork; whiCh will'be on display from Monday, January 23 to Friday,' February • ' • t f •' 1 24, 1995, m the Arts AtrJutn at Union College. The exhibition is a downtown intervention in Schenectady, New York, including models, draw- ings and text. It is a design the- sis proposal for the Master in Architecture Degree at Harvard Graduate School of Design by Michael Cramer, graduate of Union College, class of 1990. Cramer incorporates text, His- torical photographs, and images from the popular press to evoke the \latent site ... saturated with history\ a repository of memory and the changing patterns of hu- man activity. Combining these images and texts with his own 1 ' models and drawings he attempts to \express what for some time 'has never been expressed : the_ inner voice of a neglected place.'.'. Michael Cramer is a young Boston based architect. His work in the current exhibit in the Union College Arts Atrium, titled The- ater in .the Void: A Dowtzlown Intervention in Schenectady, New York, incorporates a once dense downtown site along Erie Boule- vard as a \ground zero\ from which 'to explore the new reality of post-industrial urban America and everyday life in the modern world. Cramer draws on the work of site-specific sculptors Alice Aycock and Mary Miss to de- velop his concept for the site, creating, to quote Walter Ben- jamin \a curious dialectic {of present and past) that resolves it- self in a dream.\ Conceiving of architecture as process more than product, and the urban fabric as an organi,sm with its own cycle of life and decay, Cramer's project attempts to engage a col- lective memory of place and re- turn to the site its \feelings sym~ bols, memories, ·dreams, myths and all the subtle energies that go into the expressive dimension ... the most human region of urban life\. Proposal Model for \Tit eater in tile Void- An Intervention in Downtown Schenectady 1994'' Exhibition from January 23rd- February 24th. (photo by Michael Cramer) A native of Niskayuna, Michael Cramer graduated from Union College in Schenectady in 1990, with a B.A. in Art His- tory. Theater in the Void: A Downtown Intervention in Schenectady, NY was developed as his Thesis Project for the Mas- ter in Architecture degree at odern Dance Master Classes Courtesy oftlte Performing Arts Department TI1e perfonning Arts Depart- ment will be holding two mod- em dance master classes. TI1ese classes will be taught by mem- bers of Taylor 2 from the Paul Taylor Dance Company at Union College, Schenectady, NY. TI1e first modem dance class will take place on Wednesday, February 1, 1995, from 4:30 - 5:45 pm. This class will be a beginners level modem dance class. The second modern dance master class will be taught on Wednesday, February L 1995, as well. It will take place from 6:00- 7:30pm. This class will be an intermediate level modem dance class. Both classes will be tat1ght at Union College in the Perfonning Arts Studio, located in the Arts Building. The two modem dance mas- ter classes will be free to those enrolled in the Wednesday dance practica classes and free to Union College students en- rolled in any other dance practica. For all others inter- ested in the master class, the cost will be $7.00 for one class. Taylor 2 is a company of six young dancers which consist of, Andy Lebeau, Tim Acito, jill Echo, and Robin Brancl1. This company represents the next gene,rati on of dancers in the Taylor tradition. Taylor 2's repertory consists of several of Members of tile Paul Taylor Dance Company. From Left to Rigllt, Andy Lebeau, Tim Acito, .Jill Echo and Robin Brancfl. There will be two master classes to be offered at Union College, Wednesday, February I, 1995. (PIIoto credit, Micllael O'Neill) Paul Taylor's best loved pieces including Aureole, 3 Hpitaphs. Pn~files, Arden Court aild Com- pany IJ. Taylor 2 is in residency at Skidmore College during the week of January 30, 1995. The master classes offered at Union College, however, will be the only classes open to the Capital Region dance community. l11is will be the only chance to take any classes with the group, Taylor 2. These classes will be similar to other master classes presented by the perfonning arts department in various other arts fields, includ• ing flute master classes, piano master class.es, ballet master classes, as well as many others. This is an excellent opportunity to experience dancing with soln.e of the best perfonners in today's age. For further infonnation on the modem dance master classes, or to make reservations for the classes; call (518)3 88·620 1, the A~s Department .office. Write for Arts! Contact Suzanne or Leena at x6155 for more Information. Harvard Graduate School of De- sign. Cramer received his degree from Harvard in 1994. It is free admission and open to the public. The Arts Atrium located in the Arts Building, Union College, Schenectady, NY, is open Monday thru Friday from 9:00 am to 6:00 pm. For further inforrnation please call Dawn Parisi, Assistant Program Director, or Chris Duncan, Vi- sual Art's Department. at (518)388-6201 . Top 35 Played at WRUC Schenectady l. \'Whip Smart\- Liz Phair 2. ··second Coming\- Stone Roses 3. '\American Thighs'\- Veruca Salt 4. \Murmurs\- The Murmurs 5. '\Monster\- REM 6. Dumb and Dumber Soundtrack 7.L7 8. '\Weezer''- Weezet 9. ··1 Saw the Light\- The The I 0. Pret A Porter Soundtrack 11. \'Amorica\ - Black Crowes T2. '\My I Ron Lung\- Radiohead 13 \Death of Excellence\- Low Pop Suicide 14. \'Cracked Rear View Atlantic\- Hootie and Blowfish 15. '\Dookie\- Green Day 16. \Natural Ingred.\- Luscious Jackson 17. ''Everyones Got One Fauve .. - Echo belly 18. ''John Henry~·- They Might Be Giants 19. ''Definitely Maybe\- Oasis 20. \Loved\- Cranes . 2l. \''Gurus - Hoo Doo 22. \File Under\- Sugar 23. '\Loast in Fonner''- Fatima Mansiems 24. \Electric Rock Music\- Ass Ponys _ 25. \Sorry\- Catherine 26. \Watusi''- Wedding Present 27. \Chaos··- Dead Milkmen 28. \Flamejob\- Cramps 29. \Dink'~- Dink 30. \Wab Wah\ .. James 31 .. \\Crumb\- Fossil 32. '•stoned\ .. Jesus and Mary Chain 33. '\Without a Song\- Dinosaur Jr. 34. \'Bright Yellow Gun\- Throwing Muses 35. \Turbulint Indigo\- Joni Mitchel

SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY January 26, 1995, page 7 Legitimate Uses for Synthetic Testosterone by Kenny Lee Co-EditorS & T The visiorlofindividuals using synthetie testosterone evokes im- ages of body builders, weight Hfters. aniathletes. However, the original .use ofsyt1th.etic testoster- one was therapeutic. It was used to relieve sluggishness, increase sexual drive, and increase mental capacity in the elderly. The uses of testosterone were first discovered by a french physi- ologist, Charles Edouard Brown- Sequard, in 1889. He used te§- ticuhr extracts from dogs and guinea pigs in order to reverse his mental and physical decline as- sociated with his age. At the time the tenns, honnones and testoster- one, had not yet been coined and Brown-Sequard simply knew that the secretions of the testicles caused him to feel rejuvenated. This finding has .allowed the science world to give Brown- ever, the black market has picked steroids, because of their popurar- Sequard credit as one of the up where the legal marketleft off ity in the sport world and the con- founders of modem endocrinol- and is presently b'TOssing over 1 troversy that they have caused. ogy. The research world worked billi!:m dollars ~nnually. However, their are clinical appli- diligently over the Jiext forty The synthetic testosterone as a cations for this hormone that if years and finally in 1935 came up · therapy for aging males never used under the guidance of a phy- with a synthetic ver- ~~---------------~~--- sician can be benefi- sion of the honnone ·· cial. The first u'se of \The first use of synthetic testoster- testoste.rone. AI- thesteroidwastotreat though this finding one was to treat hypogonadism, a hypogonadism, a con- initiaNy caused a condition where the gonads do not diti011 where the go- positive outlook on nads do not develop the prospect of aging, develoP no rmaUy •\ normally. the synthetic hor- Other uses that ana- mane garner.ed an even bigger prospered and the use of the hor• bolic-androgenic steroids have market in the realm of the athlete. mane on women caused hirsutism been used for are to treat impo- Derivatives of the hormone, and a deepening of the voice. tence, to stimulate puberty and to anabo'lic-androgenic steroids, Today, the science and medical relieve anemia in patients, prior have been found to increase worlds are trying to bring back the to the advent of bone marrow muscle mass and training inten- ·legitimacy of synthetic testoster- transplants (because the steroids sity. The use of these steroids was one treatments, while defusing increase red blood cell count). a legal practice from 1940-1970 the prospects of the illegitimate More recently, a great deal of whe~1 its availability was greatly uses of the honnone. work has gone into investigating limited, because of the debilitat- What exactly are the clinical the use of the steroids with hu- ing effects that it had on some uses of the synthetic testosterone? man growth honnone and as a people, espec-ially women. How- Many people know the uses of treatment for the weakness and muscle wasting associated with HIVand AIDS. The idea of using testosterone for therapeut-ic reasons has come ftill circle. Presently m~Jch work is going on to use the steroids to treat aging in both males and fe- males anq thus far the results have been positive, even in postmeno- pausal patients. A big area of research today in- volves hormonal replacement therapy, and synthetic testoster- one may finally regain its integ- rity which it first started to lose in 1896 when a researcher named Oskar Zoth published a paper on the uses of testosterone which said, \TI1e training of athletes of- fers an opportunity for further research in this area and for a practical assessment of our ex- perimental results.\ ,\'mm:e: Scient{fic American Feb. 1995 New Methods for Alzheimer's Diagnosis Biology Department Holds Meeting by Andy Salama Co-EditorS & T Alzheimer's disease is a par- ticulady tricky disease to diag- nose. When patients confront their doctors with compliants of dim entia (confusion and disorien- tation). the fonnation of a diag- nosis is usually difficult. The immediate assumption would be Alzheimer's, however in one third of the cases, of dimentia is caused by something different. The clearest method of diagnos- ing Alzheimer's disease is per- sue variations, but have not proved successful in the diagno- sis of Alheimer's disease. The new technique, Burst MRL takes just a minutes, and can be perfonned with an ordinary MRI machine. It allo\VS the entire brain to be computer imaged in less than two seconds with astonosing resolution of interior tissues. Burst MRI illustrates where the changes in blood flow occur in an Alzheimer's patient compared with anonnal brain. Weinberger is optimistic be- cause most Alzheimer's patients concluded that Alzheimer's pa- tients are exrremely sensitive to tropicamide, and respond to minute amounts. Tropicamide works by blocking the action of the neurotransmitter acetylcho- line. The discovery was made by sttidying Do\vJi-Syndrome pa- ti.ents who display brain damage similar to Alzheimer's. It was re- vealed that Down Syndrome pa- tients respond very quickly to acetylcholine inhibitors. Acetyl- choline-producing nerve cells in the brain are among those de- stroyed by Alzheimer's. fanning a brain bi- ------------~------~-~- Another group opsy. which is 111 ost often per- formed post mortem. Deter- mining the actual cause of the dimentia is vital. as \The new technique, Burst MRI, takes just minutes, and can be performed with an ordi- nary MRI. It allows the entire brain to be computer imaged in less than two seconds with astonishing resolution of interior tissues.\ out of San Fran- cisco, Athena Neurosciences, has discovered dif- ferences in two protein levels ex- pressed in the spi- some ailments such as a brain tu- mor can cause identical or simi- lar symptoms. A research team at the National Institute of Mental Health, led by Dr. Daniel Weinberger, has de- veloped an imaging system that can detect neuritic plaques, and neurofibrillary tangles that are indicative of Alzheimer's disease. The technique utilizes a special- ized Magnetic Resonance imag- ing (MRI) system called fre- quency-shifted burst imaging. It allows the visualization of chang- ing brain tissue from the outside. Other techniques can achieve the same result, but they have been fom'ld to be too time con- suming, too expensive, . and re- quire the introduction of radioac- tive isotopes. Positron emission tomography or pet scans is one technique that is simply too com- plicated for rOJitine use. Standard MRI's can also detect brain tis- have conventional MRI's per- formed, and the shift to Burst MRl \Vould be rather simple. Dr. Potter of Harvard University notes that many imaging tech- niques can resolve tisS\Ie dainage, but only after significant damage has already occured. Burst MRI may help detect brain damage in its early stages. ' Another researcher at Harvard is in the process of developing a test that could help diagnose Alzheimer's even earlier. His technique involves the applica- tion of a few drops of dilute solu- tion of tropicamide (a synthetic form of atropine) into the eyes of a suspected Alzhein1er's p~tient. The response of the pupil is then monitored for ·one half an hour. Tropicamide is the same chemi- cal used for eye examinations but in 100 fold greater concentra- tiolls. A study published in .\'cience nal fluid of Alzheimer's patients. A protein called beta-amyloid is found in low levels in Alzheimer's patients, whereas a high level oftau protein is ex- pressed in patients. Dr. John Groom of Athena Neurosciences hopes to develop a test to predict the likelihood of a person getting Alzheimer's later in life. This expectation was bome from the observation that people with high levels of apolipoprotein E, type 4, who are more likely to get Alzheimer's than peoplewith low levels. Statistically, the number of Alzheimer's patients is expected to more than triple in the next decade, with over 3 million cases in the United States to~ay. Diag- nostic research coupled with dmg therapy research will hopefully meet the needs of the over I 0 million expected patients in just ten years. Write for Science & Technology by Kenny Lee Co-EditorS& T On Monday January 23rd. the Biology department held it's second meeting of the year for all biology majors and pre- meds. The meeting consisted of three parts. The first part dealt with the changing of the pre-health advisor at the end of this year, associated with the retirement of Professor Roth, the second issue was the recent activities in the department and the last issue was the activities of the Bi- o I o g y Club. De an s c· Linda Cool and Christina Sorum spoke on the up- coming changes in the area of pre-health advising. Dean Cool spoke of a three part plan. The first pm1 was the se- lection of a new Director ofPre- health Advising. This person must be a senior faculty mem- ber that is tenurable. She em- phasized that anyone on a ten- ure track can be nominated, and anyone can nominate a profes- sor until January 28th. Tile tenn of office for this person will be three years, with a possibility of renewal. The second aspect of the change involves creating a new position, that of a counse- lor for pre-health advising. In addition to the director, there will be a part-time counselor who will assist the director and help direct the students toward appropriate sources of infonna- tioil. Finally, Dean Sorum spoke about the Pre-Health Commit- tee. The committee will exist as it has in the past as an im· portant advisory staff for the director. Dean Sorum said that they also hope to add a couple more people to this committee in the coming years. l11e tenn of the new director will begin on July 1st however, the rec- ommendations for this coming year's app'iicants will be com- pleted by this year's commit- tee. The second mder of busi- ness included a discussion about graduate school and re- search opportunities. Profes- s o r Tobiesson spoke about a meeting for all !,rradu- ate school candidates on February 1st in the Genetics lab. Pro fe s s.or Salvo spoke about research opportunities and stressed that the deadlines are approaching. Infonnation is available in the Biology de- partment office. In addition, the faculty stressed the impor- tance for students thinking about writing a senior thesis, to find a faculty member soon, and not to wait until next fall. The last part of the meeting focused on the Biology Club. The main item ofbusiness was the upcoming science fair for two local fifth grade classes. Scott Steele and Martha Kirouc spoke about the need for both demonstrators and leaders for the science fair on February l 7th. In addition, they spoke of a trip planned for the fifth or sixth week to the Schenectady Planetarium and the upcorni11g whale watch, which has a tentative date set for April 2.9th.

• I 1 1 I ' ' · January 26, 1995, page 8 The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenectady's Oldest NeJI'.Ipaper David Levine, Heather Reynolds EDITORS Camline Paine NEWS EDITOR Erin O'Neil FEATURES EDITOR Suzanne Robinson Leena Mankad ARTS EDITORS Josh Haines PHOTO EDITOR Diana Sedita COPY EDITOR Ken Berman Jason Starr SPORTS EDITORS Ca·aig G1·eenberg WORLD NEWS EDITOR Sarah Evans OPINIONS EDITOR Kenny Lee Andy Salama SCIENCE EDITORS Alex Shapiro LIVING EDITOR Brett Saunders COMPUTER MANAGER Ja•·ed Richman CARTOONIST Elizabeth De Koven Heather Manley ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITORS Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR PHOTOGRAPHERS: Scott Druckemillez·, Lam·el Ruma, Rick Lederer, Deborah P•·oper·, Laurie Kirsdmer. STAFF: Stephanie Berliner, Vinod Dasa, Jeff Ellen, Michelle Ellis, Marc Foster·, Nalini Gupta, Stephanie Kuehn, Tony LaVecchia, Mike Leding, Adrian MacLean, Ma1·tin Metz, Bharat Navani, Bhavani Navari, Larry Paska, William Rice, ChRistoph Ringwald, Billy Shakos, Shveta SRivastava, Scott Steele, Rawson Thurber, Carrie Wheeler. ·_ .. _:: .- .... ····.· . >.·,.EDITORIAL . . . · .. · ·.·- .·. ' ' . ,' ' . ' . . ' ' . State of the Newspaper Address Just as the President ofthe United States delivers the State of the Union address, it is customary for the editors of The Concordiensis to deliver their annual State ofthe Newspaper editorial. Elections fbr 1995-1996 editor-in-chief of The Concordiensis will be held in three weeks, and editorial positions officially change over at the beginning of Spring Tenn. While the newspaper has steadily improved over the course of the past year and is poised to help Union enter its third century, there are many voids that need to be filled for The Concordiensis to move forward on the road of continual improvement. The biggest roadblock faced by any coiiege publication is the low staff turnover. This can largely be attributed to graduation. This year, the newspaper faces special problems. Over the course of the past two years, The C oncordiens is has changed in many ways, one of the most notable changes has been the improvement in technology. Unfortunately, many of the students who have become adept at using this. te.chnology to its fullest potential will qe graduating this June, and the new editors will be forced to adapt to this advanced Desktop Publishing system. We have no doubts that they will succeed, but we are nevertheless vigilant in recruiting new members to the staff who can ease the burden that will soon be passed on to the new editors. .Over 2/3 of the newspaper's editors are seniors, therefore, our already small staff figures to be depleted in a few short months. Ifthe newspaper is to continue to infonn and educate the College community, the dedicated students ofthe College must step forward now. It is often said that it is possible to tell a lot about a college on the basis of reading its student newspaper. Please help us to build upon Union's illustrious history and support one ofthe nation's best college newspapers. . ' - ' ' ~ . - . ' , ' - . . . ' ' ' . ·._ .· LETTERS TO THE EI)ITOR. · .. ' - Women's Swimming Team Belittled in Sports Article To the Sports Editor, This is in response to the article written in last week's issue con- ceming the success oftlte Men's Basketball team. Admittedly, we are not ones to write letters to the Editor. However, when we read this article, we felt we needed to reply. As members ofthe highly successful Women's Swim Team, we took offense to the author's need to slander other varsity sports in order to praise another. All teams deserve acknowledg- ment of their achievements, how- ever, there is no real need to make rude remarks about another. Swimming is a sport understood and loved by the people who par- ticipate in it, and those who at- tend the meets. The author's comments show his ignorance on the subject. The Swim Team is one of the only teams who has a consistent winning record. It is their dedication and hard work which brought about this success. We deserve the respect of our fel- low students, not their animosity. Sincerely, T11e Union College 93-94 Women's State Championship Team ASTHMA RESEARCH Asthma is a chronic respiratory disorder characterized by coughing, wheezing and shortness of breath. We are dedicated to evaluating investigational drugs for the inflammation and obstruction found in the lungs of those with asthma. We need asthmatics, age 4-65 years, to help evaluate research medications. They must be nonsmokers in good health. Participants will receive a free asthma evaluation, related care and the opportunity to learn more about their asthma. Those qualified will receive study medication and be paid. These studies are conducted under the superv'ision of a board certified allergist and clinical immunologist in private office setting. For more information call 434-0140 Monday- Friday 8 am- 5 pm or 1-800-363-3464 (24 hours) Albany Medical College 62 Hackett Blvd. Albany, NY 12209-1718 Allergy Division Thomas B. Edwards, MD Principal Investigator Excellence in Patient Care and Clinical Research So:rne Union Colle.ge Community Service Ideas · To the Editor Responding to your January 12 article regarding community ser.:. · vice at Union, let me first thank you for bringing this issue to the fore. You are right on target and I agree with you I 00%. Commu- nity Service programs benefit not only the community,.but partici- pating students as well; these stu- dents develop a sense of respon- sibility and pride that they cany home and nurture throughout their lifetime. If tl1ese characteristics are strengthened as a result of hav- ing attended Union College, what a nice feather in Union's cap. Recently, a crew of volunteers from the Home Fumishing Pro- gram delivered a couch and chair to a family in need. When they · entered the home, two little chil- dren were in the living room, sit- ting on boxes. Their eyes lit up as the couch was put into place and they ran over to test it. They gleefully hugged the delivery men and thanked them over and over and over. What a wonderful feel- ing to witness such a scene. I know because I was a member of that volunteer crew. And what a shame to deprive the young people who are students at Union College from experiencing this type of reward. T11e young adults who make up our fine stlident body ate nonnal kids who quickly get wrapped up in all that college life entails. Becoming involved in commu- nity affairs is not something that they are adverse to; few of them are aware of how they can help or when and where that help is needed. Union College's relationship with Schenectady does leave much to be desired, but it's not too late to start mending fences. Were Union college to imple- ment a program and establish a liaison between the college and the city, all this would change for the better. This \Coordinator\ would work closely with the lo- cal agencies to identify their needs, current and ·Jong-range, and schedule events to recruit volunteers to meet the anticipated demands. This would be the \easier way to participate\ that the students need and the imple- mentation of such a program would benefit all Teny A. Miltner Campus Operations Union College Senior Gift Ideas Needed To the Editor: As our senior year nears its half-way point, itis time.to start considering what we as a class would ·like to give to the College as the traditional Senior Class Gift. Before we can begin to discuss fundraising, we need your input as to what the class would like to give the Co1lege. The Class of 1994 donated seating around the flagpole.· We would like to give a gift of equal or greater importance to the future students of Union. Last year's senior class set records for class participation rate and total money raised. T11ere should be many incentives for us to break these records, especially becat1se the gift we select will cap our contributions to Union's bicentennial celebration. Please drop off your suggestions at Student Activities CC408 within the next two weeks. There will be a Senior Class meeting to discuss the gift ideas and to get as many students as possible involved in the fundraising efforts. The Senior Class Representatives Editorials, Letters & Disclaimers Letters to the Editor should be addressed to th~ Of>-ED Page and must be rcceh·cd by -1 p.m .. the Mondlly before publication. LcUcrs must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College communi!)'. Final Decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to tllc EditorialBoard. Ainettcrs must be signed. although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper. ifthe writer so specifics. Letters do notncecssarilyreflcct the opinion of the editorial board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a m~jority of the Editorial Board. a!Jd no one member in p:U1icular. Any opinion colunms reflect the opinions of the writers, and not nccessarilythc opinions of the Editoria!Board. Advertisements appearing in The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. The Concordiensis is published eight Timrsdays a terin by the students of Union College. It is funded in part by the Student AetiviticsFee. The Concordien.vis. copyright 1995. all rights reserved. Box 2577. College Center, Union College. Schenectady. NY 12308. Telephone (518) 388· 6155. TheConcordiensiN is printed by The Leader Hemld. 8-10 East Fulton Street. Gloversville, New York 12078. The ConcordiensiN subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP), College Press Service. National StUdent News Service. King Syndicates. The Concordien.1i.1' is a member of the Associated Collegiate Press. SUBMISSIONS : AfLsubmissions arc due the Monday before publication, at 4 p.m. if they are submitted on either Macintosh Micmsoft Word disks; or MS-Dos Microsoft Word or Wordperfect disks. Otherwise. all submissions nrc due Friday by .J p.m. in the drop box outside of The Concordiehsis offi cc on the third floor of the CoUegc Center,

---- ;-\~ OPINIONS January 26, 1995, page 9 [J 0. D . ~~BOYS, BDYS! DO I HA\IE TO SEPARATE YOU TWO ?P\ .·:. ·. · · :. · · · .·· · · ·nu 1 ··~T:r&~rs:· .-.: ·. ··.·:··· ·· ·.·.·.--·~ ... ·. ·'.·::- ... _.·_:.· __ .-: ..... - .. __ .. •.• .· . . •. ·. . . . . · ·. · .. · .. ·. \'-1£ H-l\-'1~ ·•·· •... ·· . . . ,< ·•· • • ••. • .• A List of Day-to-day Complaints at the College ·by Tony LaVecchia · Cmzcvrdielzsis Staff plan. I personally never come close to using aU. 15 meals in one week. I am also not the only one who is in this situation. Hardly a Thursday or Friday at West goes by without hearing several people complain about the sur- plus of meals left on their cards. meal plan for their own good. He said that because we are new on campus, having a full meal plan makes it easier for us. TI1is allows ·us not to wony about our meals in general. He seemed to be imply- ing that as a freshman one is inca- pable of making up their own mind about where they eat. Hey, is the there is still one problem I do have. Every morning I like to e;:.tt two pieces of white bread, hardly an unreasonable demand. I would guess that on three out of every five momings there is no white bread out when I arrive at break- fast. Perhaps it's just bad luck, but I would appreciate an improve- the atmosphere there is enjoyed by many students. Unfortunately, we sometimes hesitate to go their because you can only purchase stuff using your declining bal- ance. Well it looks as if my hour is coming to an end. I don't want the food service to think I pick Well kids, it's time for another hour of fun and excitement. Ac- tually if it takes you an hour to read this column, it's time to be- come \hooked on phonics.\ Hey it worked for me.Anyway, those of you who have read my col- timn before may be wondering. What is Tony going to complain about this week? Well to put it simply, everything. I will devote this column to some of the little things that get on my nerves from day to day. It seems to me that a choice needs to be made. Either fresh- man have to be allowed to de- cide for themselves what meal plan they will participate in af- ter first tenn, or there must be some sort of credit for unused meals. I am aware that at other colleges unused meals are either transferred to next week, or are credited onto a declining bal- ance that can be used in the same way we us our Vali-Dine. \I'm sick and tired of donating extra money to the school or food service for my unused meals. I am somewhat insulted by the food service explanation of their policy.\ Now I start out every week with 15 meals. As a freshman I am forced to do so. Of course, I also pay for these fifteen meals. I sup- pose it is besides the point that I hardly ever use all 15. The last time I checked, I was a fairly in- dependent human being capable of making my own de.cisions. Slowly I have even learned to dress myself, but I digress. Get- ting to the point, I think it is pre- posterous that all freshman are forced into paying for a full meal I'm sick and tired of donat- ing extra money to the school or food service for my unused meals. I also am somewhat in- sulted by the food services ex- planation of their policy. As I understood the manager from Marriott who fielded questions over the radio, freshman are re- quired to participate in the full next step in this plan to have din- 'ing Foom staff force us to eat our vegetables? I think we should be capable to make our own dining options after first tenn. While I'm on the issue of food service I would like to commend the recent improvements in food presentation, and the general atmo- sphere in West. The change was much needed and appreciated. Al- though the food quality and selec- tion can still be improved I can see a change in all areas. Incidentally Winter Special at Visage! Call us at 374-0351 Women's Haircuts ........ $13 Men's ............................... $9 Perms ··············••e•••········· $40 Sta.ins ••....•..•.. 1t •••••••••••• ,.ll ••• $2.5 - with cuts ........... $35 Highlights ....................... $45 .. with cuts ........... $55 Manicures ...................... $12 We also have a new hair straightener ($45) which works without frfzziug, making hair healthier than before the treatment. For people with naturally curly hair or to remove perms. 'I;'he special rates only apply with Penny, Karin, Melissa and Beth ment in this area. Although the five minutes it takes someone to get the bread out from the kitchen isn't a long time, it becomes a long time when you're tired and late for class. There is one more food service suggestion that if followed would make for one happy columnist. I might even take a week of from writing because I would almost be too happy to complain. I think we should be allowed to punch meals at tire Rathskeller. The food and on them. I suppose that any food service organization would be subject to criticism. I guess what I'm trying to say is that my col- umn is not intended to be inflammatory(at least not this week). What I am trying to do however is encourage students to stand up for our rights as consum- ers. I also hope that my sugges- tions for improving the food ser- vices policy can be implemented or at least considered. Wqe QJ:oncorhisnsis Wants your opinions. Please send all Letters to the Editor to Box 2577. Address 'OP-ED PAGE.' All letters must be ' sent on high density disi<S. Call 388-6155 with any questions.

I,' t '\ l ' January 26,1995, page 10 OPINIONS ' W:lre <lTnncnrDitusis ~-. - . . LETTERS TO THE EDITOR Sexism in the Gym? -Some Remarks to Last Week's Opinion Need to Rethink Who We Cast the Blame Upon The Weightroom Debate: To the Editor: Every once in a while in this institution, certain individuals take it upon themselves to criti- cize certain conditions that exist here at Union. While I don't mind such commentaries, I'm slightly disturbed when people begin to point their fingers at an entire group because a small por- tion of that group may have com- mitted certain acts that may have come across as offensive to cer- tain individuals. What am I talk- ing about'? The absolutely ridicu- lous claim in last week's Concor- diensis that the FOOTBALL team have supposedly monopolized and taken over the weight-room. Upon reading such unjust state- ments, my chuckles could be heard across the college grounds because I still don't believe that as soon as things go wrong in the gym and other areas in the school, the football team is the nrst group that dawns upon the mind. Let's get one thing straight here, the football team is composed of in- dividuals who have their own beliefs and independent styles of behavior that must be taken into account before we leap to hasty and confusing conclusions. Moreover, let it be known that we lifted as .a team last year (win- ter & spring 94) during the hours of 1:30, 4.:30, and 7:30p.m. and when the campus became very disturbed with such hours, cer- tain adjustments had to be made. With very little protest, we sin- cerely obliged and currently, we lift between the hours of7-9 a.m. and 7-9 p.m. four days a week. I believe we have compromised but it seems to me that no one else wants to compromise. Why are we (the Team) subjected to the double standard? Oh, ies the Football Team so I guess that's the rationale most students have taken. To reflect upon Terrell's article again, she mentioned that some of the Football Players made some rude comments to her. Although I don't contest her judgment, my difficulty is the generalization of equating certain behaviors ·Football Players. She must keep in mind that these in- dividuals being Football Players had nothing to do with what they said. Football doesn't cause one to make unreasonable comments because such comments are ex- pressed by individuals who must stand on his/her grounds for what s/he says. Thus, blame the indi- vidual for his/her actions rather than the group s/he associates with. to be blessed with the heavenly appearance of the Football Team at one of your swim meets, you must first learn to really know who we are as individuals before you jump to conclusions. Talk to us in a different setting out- side .of where you normally see us (Dutch, Library, functions, etc.). If you don't know us then you can't write such harsh words about us and expect us not to say something back. I don't mean to make this a personal attack because I believe that there are others who may share your opin- ion but I must remind them that there's another version of the story that's usually unheard of. A Few More Considerations ' - Ms. Jenn Terrell writes that \the football players seem to have no trouble coming into the weight room IN THEIR OFF SEA- SON.\ Well, well, well, it seems to me that she doesn't understand that as the illustrious and untouch- able Union College Football Team, we've earned a right to have exclusive rights to the weight room for four days per week. Mind you, what happens before and after our appearance in the weight room is none of our business. Our business during such times is weightlifting and people that may have difficulties with it should shed their croco- dile tears in Mr. Sakata's office. I'm annoyed at the thought that people always seem to point to the Football Team when prob- lems arise. WHAT HAVE DONE TO RECEIVE SUCH UNFAIR TREATMENTS? LEAVE US ALONE. We're stu- dent-athletes who provide sub- stantial revenues to this institu- tion and to constantly attach us to rude and unwelcome behav- iors/gestures not only creates a gap within the students but it sets a stage for hostility as well. By the way Ms. Terrell, if you want As for the people who claim that certain groups stare at them upon arrival in the weight room, must really decide what eyes are for. We all stare at each other because we're curious beings who are always \aware\ of our surroundings and whenever any- thing \interesting\ come into our surroundings, we channel our vision onto that object. Thus, it's not the stare that's so bad but the behavior and attitude that fol- lows it. For example, staring at people in the weight room is not necessarily bad until unwelcome comments are said or behaviors and attitudes indicate that the staring has gone too far (pardon the psychoanalysis but I believe that it's necessary so that people don't write accusatory remarks that seem to be stemming from their anal apertures). In other words, check your analysis and reasoning before you generalize a group and for future reference, get to know us as individuals be- fore you seek abstract conclu- sions to justify your points. Respectfully, Kojo Attah To the editor: Seldom have I heard such an uproar over an opinion article in theConcordiensis, than that which has accompanied· Ms. Jenn Terrell's in the last edition ofour weekly print. Her piece seemed to give a kick in the lethargic pants of many students here at Union College; and sometimes a kick in the pants is the best way to take a step forward. So for that I thank her. Yet this commendation doesn't include .the bulk of her article which, aside frotn being jaded and intentionally one-sided, was based on vast generalization. And as we all know, generalizations are in- herently inaccurate. So I will at- . tempt to write a not only a rebut- tal to her slanted spiteful article, but alse put forth a solution. It seems Jenn 's biggest problem . was that the men (especially foot- ball players) in the weight room were too busy fondling their \pre- cious toys\ to allow women to work out. Now I find this broad outlook to be unfair. I happen to be a refonned football player, and a regular user of these, \precious toys\ and I have absolutely no problem with women in the weight room. In fact I think ifs great that a few \brave souls\ ven- ture into what Ms. Terrell so elo- quently stated as, \men's terri- tory\. I have on many occasion spetted for women while they do their reps, and I nor my friends have exclaimed, !'get the chicks out!\ even once. As for the football team domi- nating the weight room, all I can offer is a hearty, \Oh please\. Not only do these players get up early enough to lift at seven in the morn- ing (a time when most students are either recovering from the previ- ous night's activities, or dreaming Summer Positions Available JCC Camp Kingswood, a co-ed overnight camp for children ages 8-16, located in Bridgeton, Maine (operated by the Jewish Community Centers of Greater Boston) Positions available for '95 summer session for counselors, office & kitchen staff. If you're looking for a fun summer working with ~hildren in a beautiful camp environment we may have the perfect job for you. The director will be on campus on Monday, January 30 and will be available at the CDC for interviews. Please drop off a resume at the CDC or schedule an interview by the 26th. For more information, call Ed Pletman at the camp office at (617) 244-5124. of lollipops and gum drops), but they do not kick the rest of the students out during the prime hours that the swimming and div- ing teams do. To rebuke. yet an- other, of Jenn 's ill thought out ar- guments, the football team lifts in the off season because their sport is almost wholly based on physical strength, where as the aquatic endeavors seem to focus more on fonn and tone. Jenn also seems upset that no one cares about the swimming and diving team, and I do not dis- agree. For most people, espe- cially here at Union, swimming and diving are about as exciting as a whittling contest. When most people at Union see bathing suits, the first thing that comes to mind is vacation. Bathing suits equal vacation, not sport. Now as. for me, I don'tfeel this way so much. I along with many of my football playing friends have attended quite a few swimming and div- ing competit.ions. ·1 mean come on, if you haven't seen Jake \Baywatch\ Fruchter in a Speedo, you haven't lived. So with this stated, I continue. The real problem here seems to be with the scheduling of weight room hours. It is the ex- clusivity that these sports invoke upon the iron that is at the root of this quagmire. It is not the fault of the swimming and diving team, nor that of the football team, but rather the short com- ing of the administration. Ifl may be so bold as to quote Mr. Henry David Thoreau, \Unjust laws exist: shall we be content to obey them, or shall we endeavor to amend them, and obey them until we have suc- ceeded, or shall we transgress them at once? ... Ifthe injustice is part of the necessary friction of the machine of government, let it go ... if it is of such a nature that it requires you to be an agent of injustice to another, then, I say break the law ... Action from prin- ciple- the perception and the per- formance of right,- changes things ai1d relations; it is essen- tially revolutionary ... \ The reason that these me11 didn't leave the weight room, as soon as you entered, is because the .\ystem is wrong, not the indi- vidual. Everyone in the weight room is there to become more physically fit, or what have you, no one attends the weight room wanting to disrupt others. The fault lies within the system, not with its constituency. So we must out of principle break the law. We must take matters into our own hands. In effect we must -gasp!- think for ourselves.' .... Any thoughts, half-thoughts, or half-wits: Raw.von 1hurher Box #2018 Respectfully, Rawson Thurber

FEATURES \I've Been Thinking Lately ... \: The Union Manifesto by Rawson Thu~ber Concordiensis Staff I've beep-thi1.1kinglately {fill in your own joke here) about these United States that we live in, and the Union College community in which we reside. And it seems to me that both need a lot ofn:con- struction- be it the physical changes on land, or the metamor- phosis of our collective ideals within. ·Due to the obvious fact that an attempt to reform the whole of America would most likely be a blithering attempt in futility, I've devised a two-part manifesto for the Union College family. And I thinkit's about gosh dam time. l)Reform of the AcademicSys~ tern: What I've noticed in my year and a half here at Union is that classes seem to be a source of constant concern. Why is this the case, I ask you? I think the moral and enjoyntent of the students would be increased exponentially if these bothersome \classes\ and \grades\ were abolished all to- gether. 'How would we compare one student's ability to another's?' you might ask. Well, I haven't over-looked the inherent draw- back of comparative thought that is an essential quality in all Americans. This ignorant notion aUows us·to \know~' who we are (I'm X number in my class. I've got Y GP A. All my clothes are J- Crew}. So, after hours and hours of thought about a wa~ in which to exclude many a11d include few, I've come up with a way. Two words: Sega Genesis. One's abil- ity to succeed at certain games would be the .sole determiniJ;J.g factor of one's future success. 'What about all the professors? We couldn't just throw them out on the street.' Of course not. I'd never dream of such a thing. The faculty's job would simply change venues. Instead of teach,.. i ng in classrooms, they'd give you infonnation in easy to digest, smmd~byte pieces, as they swipe our meal cards at Dutch, West, and Upperclass. Sample Convers~tion: \Pepperoni and a Coke? Fine. · Wannahere about Nietzsche? He was a radical genius who's best known for saying, 'God is dead'. Aso-\ \Yeah yeah, God is dead. Got it. See ya, I've got a Madden '95 game in fifteen minutes, later.\ 2) Changes at the Top: With any great revolution, once the huddled masses have risen up and conquered, a leader must be appointed. Now the question arises, who? Who do the students of today respect, admire, and look up to? Easy, celebrities. Thus the leaders become self-evident Tom Cruise as the President (even ter- minally heterosexual me11 find him attractive). The V.P. doesn't have to do much actual thinking, but has to . look good.' the obvious choice? Pamela Anderson of Baywatch fame. With her as member of the leadership, the College enroll- m~ would easily triple. This in tum would drive down the tuition here at this lovely sch0ol. And the Treasurer? Anyone? Anyone? Bueller? Anyone? Anna Nicole Smith. 'Wait!' you say. 'Foul'!' you cry, 'two bombshell women, and only one man is not just' .. But wait, if you think about it, she's the perfect choice. This is the same women who married an eighty-six year old wheel-chair invalid, multi-hillionaire Texan. Talk about a keen nose for the bottom line. · What if these celebrities don't measure.up to their glowing fame? Well that's no problem. These stars are the shooting kind. We as students change leaders based on the strength of their last movie, Playboy shoot, or public appearance. That way we as a College are always on the cutting edge, always \with it\ and never out of step with the masses. Well that's about all there is to it folks. We can do it. It's only a matter of not thinking for your- self, watching lots and lots oftele- vision, and being, above all, American. Thoughts, questions, or hate mail: Rawson Thurber Bo.t #2018 Are you outgoing, upbeat and excited about Union? Would you like to learn more about your college? Do you enjoy meeting new people? Apply now to become a Union College Tour Guide · aka the Gatekeeper Honorary Society Applications are available in the Admissions Office. Application deadline is Tuesday, January 31st. Write for Living. Alex is looking for people at Union who know what living is all about. I[ you think you are one ofthe Union elite, who would be able to write for the Living section, then con- tact Alex at x6155 or come to our weekly meetins on Thursdays at 7 PM in CC303. You need not be alive to write for Living. January 26, 1995, page 11 t·· jfl{q~~~~r~rtt ar:.whttlk~Jf•·'P ·· ··. -&iit~pe:P~,tlt!'ti'!* iwrit(J <tliudtl EdJm .. box 83 ·- .-' :-·-:';_}'1.~' <~ ~--, .. *·-.<: .::~: ~-~ .Jil¢ar;\1ttc.l~rBdna, , : · ·· : SQlll~titnes inotass when·l''m wearing'$weatpants, I daydream :abQilLtny girlfriend and get an ernbatTassing blood flow. What sllould I eo· if for so1ne reason f. have to· stand up dming·this sitnatiuJ]? ~tent man. Qear teut llian, H.qw should you deal with your 'little' blood flow problem? Try thinld.11g about 'baseball or funerals· or ·Rush Limbaugh in , heart;::decorated b0xers. Try·cnvering up with a coat or bag or, ifn\)thjtJg,works,jnst stay $-eated and let nature work things out. . Odod .luck. · , 'i'*Jt911i tb~ :uest of Edna 92-95.' . :.·. ,l)~p,:,;~{l. . ' . . ·· 'ij;Jl~Q·9£Jlt~.s~moe oltl,,RleptibHcan:versus,. .Democrat presidential .raoe? ... , --. . ·/·- Jr~\'Y ~OJ;J:t,a lle:W:!p.~nty2 lde.re' s ten selections for your perusal ... .. ·- .. ~_,:,~~--: .- ... ~ . ;y' · .. · ' ' ~. ·. l{};, ·Ent.!y Bl$~ada and,ElatJ Quayle '''El· .. r'W':o .... · · ·d·. n..·. B · \ ··· .... >Je'\\'···'\l\''''*.an ·.,~JP·· :arty. . 9 ... T.e4 K~1nedy andBohPackwood··· ~·:ttbe Cocktaill?arty\ . J~. :~arion· Betty and Heidi Fleiss .· ... ·~The New Year's E\Ae Pa1iy\ 7 .. Jesse tlelms (78 yrs old) and Strom Thurman (93 yrs old) · \The Retirement Party\ · /:6.· Pl1(YHis Diller and EJton John <<\*'t t1 PI ' p·. . . .' '' . ;nle .vv .t1g •• .any 5. Hugh Heffu~ and Bob Barker ·. ~~Tin:~· Tot;,ra 'Party'~ • 4. ~i~p~r,;Oore an('Ji:Bob·Welr {from the Cirateful Dead) · · ·· ~~)!)liePTi~perweit'P'~'' \(sony ) ·· · · . J;;::~~d~~ P~ro~'ari'd,.,Jilen.ny 'fe1reo (from Dance Fever) . . . ~f':Ch.~ Y/hi1te Atld ClH:'it}$e .Party\ · 2, ; J~1l:tjpiy Jo~!flsQt} an~ Bitf''I~arcell s ·~-tt~l.,.,..·s· lii··p\e.:·:n.o\\ .. ''Fiii>±tt\. · . . -~ -----~:-·.t•J ~ _- ~- ·: . :.t,: --·l:l; ... · ~y.y.-~;-_,,_f Y:•\::t.:) . 1,; .. 'BtJttn1s :Buttros*<illaUi attd Boris Y eltsin ' ~·111~c,A·tt~t~t~~· tb~Jw\ortd. ~?~tty'' · ~. . R ~~.·-· . ~ -· . TQ Ptesi(:)~l]f NufJ;.,.~sn~ t a li'>ng, expensive eourt battle the last · · a ctitn~ge pres.ideh't'sf'lould want to do with our money? Also; how can you justify expanding the gap between students at:ll!lcPlnl'ittlility afai 1 tltne·wt1e~t we shottld be building bridges? Setty {9lk:S~ 110 pun~h Hne b·ere, just idiocy ... and lots of it. . J.IV~,~~qlJ~.! ~. ra.J ;~· ···· w~'lSwtt,I\!f(Jf.Jiisey. For t11etr ·· ::starrirt.g as the ·Pointer Sisters in a .. '

·' ' January 26, 1995, page 12 LIVING/FEATURE.S ijJ~e C!!:oncnrbiensis Swing Low, Sweet Chariot: Manic Depression Is Eating My Soul by Alex Shapiro Living Editor A malcontent is a person, or a part of a person, that is never content. Dynamically creative people, with an unfortunate in- ability to settle for less than ideal forms, malcontents are responsible for much .of what established and organized cul- ture recognize .as \exalted.\ The \up-side\ ofthe malcon- tent is euphoric, like a cyclone attempt at god-head. The mind is facile and absorbent, able to create symphonies (Handel), chisel stone away from an enor- mous slabs of stone until it be- comes a statue (Michelangelo), write volumes of novels and stories (Balzac), or go on \fu- ries of painting\ (Van Gogh). Hemmingway, Theodore Roosevelt, and Winston Churchill are three others who labored und~r suoh frenetic conditions. Abraham Lincoln was said to have become so talkative, energetic, and hyper- confident at times that it seemed if he were losing his mind. These highs are sometimes ac- companied by hallucinations, or visions:· Infinity becomes definable and everything is within reach. All things can be done at once, with a seemingly immortal vigor. Jack Kerouac called the sensation \it;\ in sports it's called \the zone.\ These highs have their dangers. Reckless abandon,. lack 0f judg- ment, and poorly funneled en- ergy can lead to any number of threatening and damaging situ- ations. Delusions of grandeur lead to mertal ends. They are; also, almost always followed by a depression. The \down-side\ of the mal- content is a pit ofutter despair, like Satan's great seven day fall from heaven. Agonizing real- izations and black mood swings have led to the tragic demise of innumerable people, including such recently shining innovators as poet Sylvia Platl1 and musi- cian Curt Cobai·n. Numb to pleasure, bereft of enthusiasm, uncomfortably wallowing in nothingness, these times are as bad as the good times were good. John Milton may have been describing a similar emo- tional rut when he created the Hell of his epic poem Paradise Lost, \The dismal Situation waste and wild, ... No light,,,but rather darkness visible Serv'd only to discover sights of woe.\ Riding moodswinging chari~ ots of extremity through cycles ofelation and despair, the mal- content forms a system of awareness beyond the given. The impossibility of a standard life experience causes madness and intense estrangement in Tile Unmasking in tire Square, Pedro Meyer, 1981. Courtesy and copyright Pedro Meyer. From: World History of Pllotograplly more manic cases, but cuts a healthy division between the malcontent and his society in less severe cases. The mental anguish of the lows juxtaposed with the white lightning scorch of the highs inevitably leads to rust and breakdown. As psychophannacology ad- vances in its ambitious war against extreme emotional states that have been self-treated for centuries with lethal doses of fennented .spirits and fearful sums of cash money, the mal- content is not threatened with extinction. The same Milton who de- scribed \darkness visible\ said \Wine will bathe the drooping spirits in delight beyond the bliss of dreams.\ Self-treatment will continue; drugs and booze alternatively cushioning the ''blues,\ and prompth1g the highs. The life uf'ali:rialt!Clitfent is a life of coi~stat1t paiiifili tran- sition. Mild 1 ttltii~cititention, stt- per. Severe malcontention: «Receive this piece, wliichhope nor fear y~t daunteth; - He that knows most, knows· most how much he wanteth.\ (Marston. 1J1e Ma_fcollfent) Duck Hunting: A First Date to Be Remembered· by Erin M. O'Neil Features Editor The idea of hunting or just the word hunting has always re- pulsed me. Whenever I heard that hunting season had opened I imagined all of these guys who idolize Rambo running around the woods firing semi- automatic rifles at whatever moves. The thought of actually killing a defenseless animal made me sick. So you can imagine how I felt when someone asked me out on a hunting date. To say the least I was unimpressed. I felt like asking if this guy was seeking any counseling or possibly at- tending some kind of self-help group. I figured that some psy- chiatrist had suggested he make up for his insecurities and short- comings by shooting and stuff- ing some large animals. But I was proud of myself, I resisted the overwhelming compulsion to laugh in his face. \What would we go hunting for?'' I queried. \Ducks of course.\ he an- swered. \Oh of coarse.\ I muttered Duck hunting now that's a great first date. Every instinct in my body said to run away from this guy as fast as I could. However, for reasons that I can r\ot explain I began to thihk that it might be a good experience to go hunting. Maybe I realized sp.oiling our chance to later kill he would not either. He sug- that all my life I was guilty of the birds ourself. My date ex- gested we stay to watch the contempt prior to investigation. plained that I was right and ·birds and try calling some ducks Oritmayhavebeensomedriv- commented that everyone in. ing inner force tllat cried for the should use lead shot so there As we saw the first signs of return to a hunting and gather- would ·be more ducks to kill. the sun a peaceful feeling fell ing mentality. I surprised even We anivedatthehunting spot over me. For the first time in myself when I accepted his of- at five a.m. I carried the duck my life I could comprehend the fer. That was Wednesday, with decoys and my gun. My date word serenity. I had never ex- plans to meet on Sunday I be- carried his gun, our food, and perienced anything like it. gan to wish I had taken his the all important duck callers. There was a slight breeze blow- phone number so I r-------~------------, ing a dusting of snow could cancel this date above the water in with the devil's child. front of us. The mom- Sunday came and he . 1 ing sun le~ off a sym- showed up atfoura.m. phony of co lots that to pick me up. I was ' danced behind the worried that I had clouds. I understood picked out the wrong life and love. I was one camouflage for duck / with nature. Two mal- hunting, but my date lard ducks were flying comforted me and said that I it was right. We drove for about an hour to the hunting spot. During this time I was briefed on all the necessary hunting in- formation. He told me I would be using a Remmington 11 00 semi-automatic,, shotgun while he was using a Browning BPS pump shotgun. I also 'teamed we would be using number 3 shot. Which refers to the size of the pellets that we would be bombarding our prey with. He also infonned me that we Were environmentally conscious ·hunters because we used steel shot instead of lead shot. I guessed that the lead shot might later poison and kill other birds By 5:30 my date had taught me the art of setting up duck de- coys. He tmly is an artist and plastic ducks are his medium. By 5:45 I had teamed the ba- sics of duck calling. Now all we had to do was wait for the sunrise only after which is hunt- ing legal. Which meant I had plenty oftime to get acquainted with my gun and to leam how to load it and discharge it. I was thoroughly disgusted by 6 o'Clock and knew for damn sure I was not going to fire a gun and I demanded he bring me home. He calmly per- suaded me to stay. He reassured me that if l did not want to kill anything I did not have to and over us. I was brought out of my trance by the sound of my date blowing on the duck caller. He gently handed me my caller and asked me to try. I thought why not try after all we were not going to shoot at them. The birds circled overhead three times. I was intermittently switching from a loud \wail\ call to a quiet feeding call. Til is pattem certainly interested the birds but w.as not convinci11g enough. On a hunch I switched to only the feed call and the birds made their way down. I could not believe how ftin it was. I looked over to my friend and he smiled as if to say good job. Then I looked back up and SflW the two mallards buckled up cmning in for a landing. At that moment a voice inside my head seemed to speak. The words I heard reverberated through the core of my being. TI1e phrase I heard was \shoot the ducks.\ As the word \shoot\ echoed in my head I automati- cally grabbed my Remmington II 00 shotgun and fired all three shells at the birds. I dld not lead the birds enough with my first shot. But I would not make that mistake again. The second shot was a fatal.sllot and the hen mallard was dead before it hit the water. My third shot wounded the drake mallard and it landed in the water unable to fly. My date was stunned and did not react so I quickly re- loaded my instrument of death and finished off the drake mal- lat:d. 1 cannot accurately describe the feelings I had when I waded into the water to retrieve my kill. I knew that what I had done went against all my ideals and morals, but at the same time I knew that something I enjoyed so much could not be wrong. We hunted until noon with no further luck. That night my date prepared Duck ala Orange. We sat at the table and thanked the Great Spirit for knowing Him better and for supplying us with the wonderful meal. I i j

i J Personals To the brothers of Ali<!>- The party was out of control. Next time we'll bring a tape deck and Madonna's greatest hits. -the sisters- of f(f)B To the ftPB match bids; You are all amazing. We are so proud of you. Congratulations! - the sisters of fcl>B Bubba -I'm gladyou are at Union with me. You cheer up my days. -Me Sethy Boy- I miss hearing from you kid! (It's mostly my fault I know - I promise we will get to- gether soon!) I love you lots! Take care of yourself. Love ya '-Sis OA';f~ Congrat's! We love you all. - the sisters .of !if Congrats to the sisters and new. pledges of L'iliLl, r<DB a11d LL'i T on a great Rush! - the ~ister~ .~~14,pJe1fg.~~ of .1:r · '1t~ .• ~,· ,·i~-~;..rH~'; ·- · .. · DW - fo.r someone \'fPH has such a pristine l10me life you have. a mind like a tr~~k driver! ·· . •i Steve. You~.a BAD MAN!!. To My Special Boy - I will get you BACK!! . -Your .Special Girl t DS - Y <w're richt,l will n~ver see a Disney i{Jlo~e the sat.tJ~-::tl'la~lk~. to ow - -·Es SF. DF .. LS. DS. KP. DW - Brand.ywine. \von't ever be the same, uettil~g there is. definat~lv .... . .... ... halfthe fun .. - EB LS + DW - There is a difference between making love. cuddling, and sex. even if Webster's doesn't say so. Roomies, you know who you are. Thanks for being so much fun. We nmst make more human sand- wiches! TJ- We mttst find a cure for onr insomnia! You're the best. Keep up the good work. - Elby To my support: Don't worry. really won't attack F.F .. I prom- ise. We just need to work on a little S. for the H. one- um. that'd be me, AN. L.J. - You're lucky that I did11't \Mite the message of choice about a certain C.P. that you W. The key of love will be used soon, I can feel it. Love your P.R. sub. Lover LJ, KG. JD + LT: Thanks for putting up with Buzz. He loves you just as much as I do. Love, Smuffette. KA: I know it seems as though a tomado struck, but the great vacuum ti·om the sky will fix it soon! Whatever. - TI1e Homey o1te PERSONALS/CLASSIFIEDS January 26, 1995, page 13 M.W.- I know that life is stress- ful as usual, but please don't stress so much. T. + W. are definitely not worthy ofymtr worries.· Taepi says \The man of your dreams will find you soon\ - the other Ange.lman Lauren and Andy • On second thought, the answer is yes. LK - Thanks for everything! I can't tell you how much I appre- ciate it. I love you -KL He was Kung-Fu fighting, fast as. lightening, moves so Tightening ... DF, LS, SF, OW - I neverknew playing·c;:ards could be so much fun. Circle of Death is a BADgame ... we!ll have to play again. ~ DS spoon - \hugging and kissing.\ -Webster Roomie- I'm sorry you had a bad week. I'm sure all things went well. I know I'm biased. but English isn't really that bad. The weekend .is fast ap- . preaching and you will filially be able to relax. I love you! -D Quote of the week: \Life Sucks!\ To the crew- Correction - Emmy, cookie. (Sorry!) Single person lost penis in snipe hunting accident. Looking for significant other with one to spare. Photo a must- facial view optional. Single white Pat looking for car- ing, tnature other to share late dinners. fashion tips, snipe reci- pes and androgyt1.ous make-up tips. Unisex haircut a must. Send psychological profile. MISSING: Cutest little bunny in the world. Last seen in the vecinity of five snarling dogs. Looking for a partner for intimate breakfasts. Ten o'clock class a must. Confidentiality insured. To my psychotic friends - Thank you very much for the per- snna)s. I have to say I am very scared of all of you. I will have some interesting stories to tell my children. TI1anks! - your Concordy connection Treeshy- Who said that l was an awful pen pal? Well, cheer up and smile. TI1e bet is on and I have held up my end of the bargain, so you better hold up your end this weekend. Love. Liza Sed- Good luck next year, and good luck with, well. you know. To my sanity - \I've never been so happy before ... \ Thanks for always listening to me complain. r love you. -the tired one (sorry) Bri ,.. Only you could have such an interesting life. How you do it I will never know. I can't wait Lmtil all ofthis is over,. then maybe we will have some more time to- gether. I'm glad that you are back from England. I missed you. 1 - your radio companion Jenni -I wish med school wasn't so damn overwhelming, so I could see more of you, but I guess I should be glad that you're local so I at least get to talk to you. I miss having my ever huge room1nate around. I need someone around who sleeps more than l do, and has a harder time getting up. Good luck on your final. I love you, sweety. -Love Hepsaba Sheryl Anne- Enjoy the time you have without me now because once spring tenn gets here you will want to be getting rid of me soon enough. - your roommate Virginia - Sorry about the lack of a newspaper last week. I swear I will make it up to you somehow. I can't wait to get to see you. I hate neurology too, if it keeps you guys away so much. TeH Sangh I said hi, and that he better make sure that our little VA is staying well. See you in the personals again next week -wiggle \Life isn't easy,\ a wise womaA once said. \Got to throw a few back or you'll die young.\ Live a little. We only havea limited time here. We mine as well enjoy it. Life as a rock might not be as exciting. To all of the Senior Concordy editors - How many days do we have left, you ask? Well. let me, as the math major. let you in on these exciting fl)cts. We have 33 days, 792 more hours, 4i,520 more minutes, 2. 851 ,200 more seconds until we are out of here. I don't know about you guys, but I can't wait. We will come back to visit though ... A gold-link ch£!rm bracelet last seen in the vicinity of Bailey Field. This bracelet has deep sentimental value. A generous reward will be given to 'any- one who retutns it. Please call x5637 or VM#3609. I had a great time seeing The Lion King with y,g.u.~)t was ·~rijinly a ~ time t.o .fen1runber. We shouitd. -> defihately do it ·again. We~ really' ·:· don't see enough movies. Love, DS SF is. looking for a SM who will · buy her roses and walk through · Jacksmi's Garders with her. She's looking for someone to be her Valentine. If interested give her a call. LOST: one large snipe. Large reward is offered. IAMFUBAR. \Sometimes I'm tired, Sometimes l'tn shot, Sometimes I don't know how much more I got. Maybe I'm headed over the hill. Maybe I've set myself up for the kill ... \ LS & DW- I'm very sorry about waking you guys up. I seem to have a nack for that Sony- D Is the pole beginning to get loose? I think we are a little closer to finding it. OW- Now that you have your computer back, you have to show DFyour spe<;ial screen savers. They are hysterica_l. \Hmmmm.\ -DS Sallll am, looki11g for green eggs and ham. DFL - Life call only get better from this point on. - HLR · .. Coffee House p R E s E N T s Area Acoustic Artist RobSkane In the Rathskeller Friday, January 27 Show begins at 9:00 PM Bring your Validine for Coffee & Excellent Desserts (because we don't take Master Card, VISA or American Express)

; I t \ . ' I '· ',1 'i Campus Calendar for the Week of Jan 26.- Feb 1 Campus Meetings Thursday, 01/26/95 8:00a - 4:30p 9:00a IO:OOa II :30a 12:00p 12:30p 1 :OOp 4:00p 4:00p 7:00p 7:00p 7:00p 7:00p 7:00p 7:30p 7:30p 8:00p 9:00p Leaming Skills, CC 302 Dean Of Students Staff Meeting, CC 205 0 Ca11 Steering Committee Meeting, CC 203 Bicentennial Cmnmencement Committee Meeting, CC 205 Spanish Language Table, CC 204 Gennan Language Table, CC 203 SoCiolOgy Meeting, CC 204 . Biceiltehllilal Steerii1g c'ommittee Meetin,g, CC 203 Campus Ministry Study Group, CC STRAUSS (305) Review ClassCHM 032, HU019 CHM 032 Review Classes, BUT204 (ALPS) Political Science 011, SS 104 HST 035, HUMANITIES 115 Kappa Sigma Dinner, HH DTNING ROOM Mountt::bimks Meeting, CC 409 The Calculus Center, BAILEY 203 Here's to U Meeting, CC 302 SOC 010 Film Presentation, CC AUDITORIUM Friday, 01/27/95 8:00a - 4:30p 9:00a 12:30p 3:00p 4:30p 4:30p 6:30p 7:00p 8:00p 9:00p Leaming Skills, cc. 302 Affit1native Action Meeti11g, CC 205 English Department Candidate'sPresentation, HU 019 Math 007 Seminar, BAILEY 201 EER 142, Make Up Class, BAILEY 106 Show Film- PSC 139, HH OLD CHAPEL Intervarsity Christian Fellowship, CC MOBIL (406) Philomathean Society, HH MILANO LOuNGE Delta Psi Delta, .Iffi OLD CHAPEL \Coffeehouse\, RA THSKELLAR sa.h:.rday, 01/28/95 8:00a STEP Workshops, BAILEY 100, BAILEY 102, BAILEY 104, and BAILEY 1 06 8:30a -11 :OOa 11 :OOa 11 :30a l2:00p l2:00p Bronx Science High School Students Program,CC AUD and Memorial Chapel STEP Workshop, SOCIAL S~IENCES 016 STEP Luncheon, The Pit Football Team, CC AUDITORIUM Football Team, HH DINING ROOM Sunday,Ol/29/95 9:00a 11 :OOa 3:00p 3:00p 6:30p 7:00p UNION COLLEGE Career Development Center Ellen Sinapoli Dance Class, PAS (I ()8) Football Team, CC AUDITORIUM Show Film- PSC 139, HH OLD CHAPEL National Dance Troop Rehearsal, MEMORIAL CHAPEL Phi Iota Alpha, CC 409 Protestant Worship, HH OLD CHAPEL CDC Updates ••• •Law Panel January 31 -Cancelled Come to the CDC during drop- in hours to explore your interest in a law career. •Freshmen-Seniors interested in DC: attend information session on DC Career Program February 7 at 7pm, CDC •Sophomores- IFEB Internship information session, Wednesday, February 1 at 7pm. Resume deadline is February 10. • Juniors: Andersen Consulting has summer internships; informa- tion session February 13 at 7pm. Deadline for resumes and per- sonal information form is February 17. Interviews will be spring term, March 30. Juniors in Engineering/CS: •General Electric Company interviewing for summer/fall co-ops. Submit resume to CDC by Friday, January 27. •Norton Company interviewing for summer/fall co-ops. Submit resume by Friday, February 3. •JCC Camp Kingswood has summer jobs available; A representa- tive will be on campus Monday, January 30 to interview. Resume is required. Sign up for an interview time slot at the CDC. •Seniors: Emma Willard has one year teaching internships available. A representative will be at the CDC February 2() at 4pm to answer questions and to collect resumes. Monday,Ol/30195 8:00a 11 :OOa 12:15p 3:00p 3:30p 3:30p S:OO.p 6:00p 6:30p 7:00p 8:00p 9:00p Zulu Dance Theater, MEMORIAL CHAPEL STEP Fund Rajser, Sigma Phi, TABLE 7 - CC A TRlUM Political Science Department, CC 205 Solicitor's Meeting, CC 203 Recruiti11g Speec11for Spanish, HUllS Natiottal Dance Troop Reception,HH OLD CHAPEL Meditation Grotlp, CC 302 . EGL 024, HUOt:9, and HUll9- SEMINAR ROOM Math 007 Semiriat, BAILEY 203 . Chet's Committee Meeting, CC 409 Delta Psi Delta Meeting, CC 302 Social Committee Meeting, CC 409 ' Tuesday, 01/31195 · . 11 :OOa ' , ' · Residence Life Meethig, CC 205 . . . . ~ 11 :OOa. . . STEP Fund Raiser, Sigma Phi, TABLE 7 - CC ATRIUM 11 :30a Founder's Day Committee Meeting, CC 204 · · . · ', ·' 12:00p Community & Values Discussion, HH MILANO LOUNGE 12:00p Residence Life Sti:tffMeeting,.CC 205 · .!· ~ 12:00p . . Japanese Table, CC 203 t.' 12 :OOp ·. • Freshmei1 Preceptorij:ll Lti11cheon, CC 409 s:ddp' r;.,. .. . 'aig Brbtller5lB'ig. 1 Si'ste~s· M~eting, cc 41 o 5:30p Delta Psi Deita Meeting, CC 203 6:30p ESC 075, Civil Engineering, HU 110 6:30p ESC 076, Mechanical Engineering, HUl14 7:00p Intervarsity Christian Fellowship Bible Study, CC 409 7:00p Union College Orchestra Rehearsal, MEMORIAL Cl-IJXPEL 7:00p Committee on Pothical<Jn~ Social ThediY)lf:tdi:rh:HAPEL 7:00p civil War Movie, CC: MOBIL (406) 7:30p The Calculus Center, BAILEY 203 :'· .,,. c• ,,: ' . . . Wednesday, 02/01/95 \ 8:30a Human Relations Meeting, CC 203 .• i . . . - . . ' ' . ~, . 11 :OOa STEP Fund Raiser, Sigma Phi, TABLE 7 - CC A TRiiJf\1 2:00p 2:30p 4:00p 4:00p 4:30p 5:00p 6:00p 6:00p- 8:00p 6:00p 6:30p 6:30p 7:00p 7:30p STEP Tutoring, BAILEY 203, and BAILEY 205. Gate KeeperGroup Session, HH DINING ROOM AthleticsMeeti1,g, SSOI6 C.O.S.A. Meeting, CC 205 Taylor 2 Dance Company, Beginner Master Class, PAS (108) SAC Meeting, CC 204 Taylor 2 Dai1ce Company, Intennediate/Master Class, PAS Girl Scout Meeting, Residence Life, CC 409 A.O.P. Tutoring, SS103,SS104, and SSI10 Newman Club Meeting, HH MILANO LOUNGE EIT, Fundamentals of Engineering, HU114 Africano Studies, CC406 The Calculus Center, BAILEY 203 SPORTS Friday, 01/27/95 7:30p UNION HOCKEY, UNION VS. DARTMOUTH ACHILLES RINK Saturday, 01/28/95 2:00p MEN'S BASKETBALL, UNION VS. ELMIRA, FIELDHOUSE 7 :OOp UNION JiOCKEY, UNION VS. UVM, ACHILLES RINK Tuesday, 01/3l/95 8:00p MEN'S BASKETBALL, UNION VS. HOBART,FIELDHOUSE CAMPUS EVENTS !fhursdayj 01/26/95 12:00p \Plate Full of Questions\ Peer Facilitators, CC 409 · I :30p Speaker: Melvin Steinberg, Physics Colloquium NWSE 114 ~:OOp Intemet Class, STEINMETZ I 08 ~:30p Speaker: Steve LaBonne, BiolOb'Y Seminar SS 103 friday, 01/27/95 ~:OOp St. Cecilia Orchestra Concert, MEMORIAL CHAPEL Monday, 01/30/95 I O:OOa Personal Insurance Infonnation, CC 203 t:30p Lecture: Fred Minnear, Physiolobry & Cell Biology, SS I 04 7:00p Zulu Dance Theater of South Africa, MEMORIAL CHAPEL Wednesday, 02/0 l/95 I O:OOa Red Cross Bloodmobile, HH OLD CHAPEL Thursday, 02/02/95 12:00p \Plate Full of Questions\ Peer Facilitators, CC 409 1 :30p Physics Colloquium, SCIENCE & ENG. NW ll4 ~:45p GMI Seminar: Dr. Wm. Holstein; \Privatization in Fonner \ 312 -GMI CONF. ROOM

--------' ..... .SPORTS January 26, 1995, page 15 ·• Union Swimmers Defeat Rensselaer, Middlebury to lntprove to 6-1 by Julie Ivanyi Concordiensis Staff Both the men's and the women's Swim Teams exempli- fied .their abilities this past week as they competed agaiust schools that demanded excellence, RPI and Middlebury. Each school had one team that was signifi- cantly dominant over that of the opposite sex .. RPPs men's team has always been stronger than that oftheirwomen'steam. Simi- laFly, the Middlebury wmnen 's . team is larger and mote power.- fulthan their 1nen' steam. Union, characterizedbytwo solid teams, is a team that many oppoilents look <to beat. Lead by taleot and <letermil1ation, Union has only let one team, Williams, slide by their strong barrier., · Saturclay'smeet, being the last l1ome meet of the ·season; was Senior Recognition Day. Seniors Matt Baumgartner, Scott Bowden, Adam Hotst, Julie Ivanyi, Annie Rozwadowsld; Erica Saltz, Jenn Terrell, and GeotfWol~e~w~re tecogq~ze<;lfor their four years .df d~1ilication to ' t • • . • ~ t ' - ~ • ,1 ' • the team. · - ·As the -Mi-ddlebury meet ap- proached, coach StJsan B\assett wamed the women or th~ 'team they were about t.o f.ace. Middlebury has been building its team for the past few years, and. this year has beat some of the toughest teams in the area. Union was being put up against a team that was comparable to their own; they were swimming against a mirror .image of themselves. Confident with tlt'eir abilities ~nd depth, the women entered the meet with a fGrce that lead them to victory. The meet began well for Union, as they took 1st and 3rd in the MedleyRelay; Tile'A'reJaycon- sisted of Sarah Spaulding, Megan McCarthy,' Mo O'Donnell, and JonathaMeade. The 'B' relay that touched out Middlebury for 3rd place was swum by Julie Ivanyi, M~lissa Pomerleau, Flo Chretien, and Kelly Jamieson. TI1is gave them a lead of9 points gning into the lOQO,Freestyle. Middlebmy's dmnination appeared. during this race as they took I st, 211d, and 3rd. Although Unloil· was able to take 1st place in tile next tluee events, the 200 Free, 50 Free, and the 400 Individual Medley, Middlebmy's depth ~'Tanted them with a small lead of two or three points. Jackie Cr!ll1e snatched the win in the 200 .Free with a second lead over the second place finisher. In the 50 Free, Jonatha Meade-came jt.1st 6 tenths of a second away from making the B cut qualifying time for the National Champion- ships. Jenn Allaire dominated the 400 lM, het closest competitor 4 seconds behind. She also, qmlli- fied for the B cuts for Natim'lals. Middlebury took 2nd, 3rd,and4th in these events, therefore mait'l~ taining a lead of I point going into the diving. Nicole Rubin took first place, coming just 5 points away from breaking the college record. Amy Lamphere and HeatJ1er Kanser rounded up the event, 'takh1g ·2•i'(fru1d 4th~·givil1g Union a I 0 point lead over Middlebury. 11uo'ttgh the next few events, Middlebury regained their previ- · ouslead and before the 200 Back- stroke, they were ahead by 4 points. Coach Bassett expressed the importance of winning this event, in addition to attempting to capture 2nd and 4th places. Jenn Allaire, Sarah Spaulding, Annie Rozwadowski, and Jen Davidson, met these require- ments by placing lst, 2nd, 5th, and 6th, TI1is put Union back in the ine~t with a lead of 5 points. the 200 Breastroke became an- other tension-filled event, as the Dutchwomen needed a large number of points tQ maintain their lead. Megan McC~rthy, Melissa Pomerleau, and 1enn Terrell set out in the first half of . the race in 1 st, 2nd, and 3rd. The race .finished with. lst, 3rd, and 4th place finishes, in, addition to· a 5th place finish by Alyson McKee. The outcome of the meet now dependedon the .results ofthe400 Free Relay. Uuion simply needed a 2nd place_ finislt to win the meet, as diving had given them another 10 point lead. Middlebucy split up their 'A' and 'B' relays, cre- ating two strong relays, hoping to take 1 stand 2nd places to win the 1neet.. Unfortunately for them, the Union teain of Eri Hayashi, Kelly Jamieson, Mo O'Donnell, and Jenn Allaire had winning on their minds and held onto 2nd place to win the meet by 1 point, with a final score of 122 to 121. nle strong meet for the men this past week was against RPI. Although Union anticipaJed a stronger team than the one that appeared; there were still some strong races. But as Union has proven so far this season with the big win against Hartwick, they are unstoppable. This meet was exceptional in the aspect that the Union Dutch~: men were able to win every event, except the 1 000 Free with Tha11 Stuntz, John Fitzgeral·d, and Adam Horst taking 2nd, 3rd, and 4th. Brian Field will be attending the National Championships this March, as he dove an amazing meet last Wednesday. To qualify for the championships for diving, one must dive a certain score twke in a dual meet, but only once in a champion~hip meet. Field qualified with a score of 259.05 which alsQ gives him the school recotd, which has been standing si-fice 1991. Matt Baumgartner placed 2nd in both diving events . .Union placed 1st and 2t1d in th~ 100 Free, the 200 Free, aild the 200 IM. In the 1 00 Free, Mike Darbyshire.andChris Riley were able to outswim their competition. This follow~d .through into the 200 Free where Chris Riley took 1st and Mike Humphreys took 2nd with times of 15 L 16 and 151.22, respectively. TI1e 200 1M wa~ claimed by Scott Bowden and EricMajeron. Further in the meet, Majeron swam another great race as he took 3rd in the 500 Free, with a time of 5.03 .21. Kevin Makarowski won this event with a time of 4.57.86. Scott Bowden '--· c • swam the 1 00 Breastroke against the retuming State Champion in this event, who also happens to hold the pool record in this event. Exemplifying his talent, Bowden beat the RPI swimmer by a sec- ond. Swimming the last relay exhi- bition, so as to run the score too high, the final score between Union and RPI was 139-80. Union now has two male swim- mers and divers who will be at· tending the National Champion- ships. Along with Field, Mike Humphreys has qualified to swim the 100 Backstroke. TI1is num- ber will surely increase at the State Championships, where the team will be shaved and tapered and ready to swim record-break- ing events. Both teams have one more challenging meet this coming weekend, against Hamilton. The women have come home with victories the past few years .against this equally powerful team, although as they improve, so d~es the Hamilton team. TI1ey, along with Ithaca, will be the top contenders at the State Champi- onships held here in February. On the men's side, Hamilton is the defending State Champions, and has been only getting stron- ger. Both meets will probably be similar to the women's ITieet against Middlebury, although coach Susan Bassett hopes it doesn't come down to the out- come of the last relay. Union hopes to improve their record to 7-1 this weekend. .. r------------------~---------------------------, MACARONI·AU FROMAGE (EAT WITH GUSTO FOR ABOU'T 51-~ PER SERVING.) 2 • (pinwheels fun) 1 milk cups rnacaronl are cup 1 cup sharp cheddar (grated) 3 tbs flour 1/2 stick butter 1 tsp pepper 1 tsp Worcester shire (if you like) 1 tsp salt Cook macaroni in 5 cups salted, boiling water for 15 minutes or until al dente. Drain. In a separate pot, melt butter and mix in flour. over low heat. Then, stir ·in milk until smooth. Add cheese, salt, pepper and Worcestershire. Stir well. Smother macaroni. Serves ii. Note: For your nutritiopal convenience, Citibank Classic cards are accepted at over 12 million locations, including grocery stores. .. . ..... -+ -

January 26, 1995 PAGE16 W4.e Qloneorb-i.ensis Another One Bites the Dutch Union Loses to Yale Despite Severely Outplaying Bulldogs by David Levine Contributing Editor Coming off their most impressive victory in Division I, a strong 5-2 effort over rival RPI that snapped an eight game ~in less streak, the Union College Skating Dutchmen slipped ft1rther into the abyss of the ECAC this Satu1Ja) aft~:r Jrupping a 5-2 decision to the Yale Bulldogs at • Ingalls Rink i·n New Haven, Connecti.cut. The Dutchmen severeJ.y outplayed the Bulldogs for the tirst 50 minutes of the gallic, only to to s~e their defense and goaltcnJi.ng disintegrate diuing tile final c1ght minutes as Yak on:rcamc a 2-l Union lead by ~cu1 ing tom unanswered goals. rhc los~ m.m cs the Dutchmen (5- (>-2. 2-6-2) back mto the ECAC cellar. It also reaggra\ ates the ~oalic controvcrsv. Since coach ' . Bruce Delventhal took Mike Gallant out ofthe starting rotation nearly two months .. ago, senior goalie Luigi Villa has posted an 0-3-1 record, losing his past three starts. Union is 1-5-1 in that time period, most of these losses coming against some of the nation's weakest teams. The Dutchmen are 1-3 in 1995 despite outshooting their opponents by the margin of 159-96 over the four games. Union has mustered 40 shot efforts in each of the past Cllris Ford fools Yale defenders as lie prepares to shoot tile puck at Yale Goalie Todd Sullivan (photo by Josll Haines/The Conco~diensis) three games. Following their aggressive performance against the Rensselaer Engineers last weekend, the Union offense continued to get scoring opportunities during the first period on Satmday aftemoon. As has been the problem during the past ten games, however, Union was unable to put the puck in the net. During the first frame, Union outshot Yale 15-5, many of those shots from point blank range, but Yale goalie Todd Sullivan turned in an impressive display. TI1e Yale offense turned up the pressure during the second frame. Yale finally got a power play opportunity four minutes into the period, and after a sluggish start to the man advantage, the Bulldogs were able to tally a goal, as Sani Silvennoinen one-timed the puck past Villa on a nice pass coming from Cippola behind the net. The Dutchmen responded to the Yale goal at 8:40 of the period when Russ Monteith scored his ninth goal of the season, a powerplay goal, on passes from Chris Ford and Cory Holbrough. The second period ended with the score tied at one, The Dutchmen Union's Cltad Thompson tries to one-time tire puck past Todd Sullivan on a pass from Charlie Moxham. Sullivan made tllis save, and 37 more in Yale's win (photo by Rick Lederer/Tite Concordiensis) outshot the Bulldogs 13 to 9 in the period. During the opening part of the third period, the Dutchmen continued to move the puck well in the Yale zone. Just over one minute into the period, Union got another powerplay opportunity. After nearly scoring twice during the first minute of the man advantage, the Bulldogs committed another penalty, giving Union a two man advantage. After Yale's first penalty expired, the Dutchmen got a break. As he was skating into the zone, Prentice wristed the puck wide of the net. As Sullivan moved to r-etrieve the puck, it caromed off the boards, and bounced at defenseman Andrew Will, who was standing right in frontofthe Yale goal. Will easily slid the puck into the open net for Union's second powerplay goal of the afternoon, giving the Dutchmen a 2-1 lead. The goal came 4:22 into the third period, From then on, the checking picked up as Union's defense kept the Yale offense ot1t of sync for the next 7 minutes. Unfortunately for the Dutchmen, who played a relatively error free game, they would be haunted by another comeback aided by their penalties. With 8:19 remaining in the game, Dean Goulet headed for the penalty box and the Yale offense wasted no time in taking advantage of Union's miscue. Just twenty seconds into the powerplay, Yale tied the game after Luigi Villa allowed a long rebound, and Yale's Matt Cumming jammed a backhand past the Union goalie. Fifteen seconds later, the Bulldogs took the lead for good when Villa allowed another long rebound, and the Union defense faile.d to clear the zone. Yale's Dan Brierley beat Villa with a wrist shot to the pad side. Tile Bulldogs put the game away with 3:49 to go with their third unanswered goal, and padded the score with a late empty net goal. For the game, fhe Dutchmen outshot Yale 40-25. Todd Sullivan stopped 38 Union shots. Though Villa sto.pped 13 of Yale's first I 4 shots, the Bulldogs scored 4 goals in 11 shots during the final period. The extended slump is getting frustrating for Union, which has scored more than three goals only once during their ten game skid. According to defenseman Andrew Will, \We;re getting the chances, we're just not putting them all in. But you have to look at the positive; we're getting chances. We have to keep bearing down.\ The Dutchmen will once again try to climb out of last place this weekend as they face off against Vermont and Dartmouth at Achilles Rink. Though this weekend's goaltenders won't be announced until tomorrow, many people have speculated that Delventhal will try to spark the team by starting Gallant in goal for one of thi·s weekend's games. f. l j I ! t ' r i, ' ,·

