PAGE 16 Play Well; Dron.TWo Dutchmen, UNH was able tore- games represent a great step forwarFagainst all of their le.ague opponents, the !()ad thirteen minutes into for Union hockey. then Union hockey is bound to have third period. The Dutchmen put The fact that Maine and UNH were a very successful season. The Dutch- pressure on the Wildcats late willing to come ~o Union to play menfmishofftheirnon-Ieaguegames the third period but were unable grants gFeat legitimacy to Union as a this 'Yeekend as they travel to face the convert their efforts into the ty• division I hockey program. If Union Cadets of West Point on Saturday. score. Despite th(') losses, these is able to continue to play this well Shaun:..PaulManore to 7-1; playoffs as he caught a 6-yard TD from freshman QB Tom and returned a punt for a TD. This made score 30-7 late in the third and the game was all over. The defensive heroes on this were the same as they've all season. Charrod Riley eked off his third pass of the Freshman defensive Justin Campbell and senior Brad Duffy each had fumble recovery, while also had a pair of cks (he leads the team with 7). Union has to hope that they keep up this all around ef- rt for this weekend. Roches- lost three straight games, their record is 4-4. With a game, the Dutchmen be able to defeat this am. Realistically, Union be gunning for a rout, for are going to need an im- essive win in order to move in the NCAA poll. Even if remain at fifth, they should commended for an excellent ason, after that devastating day loss. The game is set for 1 :30 here at Frank Field, so come out and eer them on; a possible na- championship is on the Field Hockey Ends Season With Playoff Loss · Jonathan Gasthalter less. Goaltender Ehma Goldberg . Sports Writer and th~ defense shined as William The 1995 field hockey Dutch women's season ended Wednesday, October 25, as the team lost 3.,.1 to William Smith in the first round oftlie Upstate Collegiate Ath- letic Association playoffs. The \' Dutchwomen slid into the eighth spot of the playoffs and were des- tined to play Willian1 Smith whom they had lost to in a previoui'! meet- ing 6-0 in September. William Smith came out of the gate with a huge offensive outburst, scoring three goals against a sur- prised Union team, and carne out for the second half continuing its of- fensive onslaught. However, the Dutchwomen stepped up their de- fense and held Willi~ Smith score- Smith could not convert on any of its seventeen comers. Finally, with one minute left in the game, Union scored a goal and a moral victory as Kate Gross took a pass from Tanya Capparello and shot the ball past the William Smith goaltender. The goal not only broke the shut- out for the game, but the string of three shutouts against the Dutchwomen. The Dutchwomen were pleased with their game as they proved to themselves that they were able to compete with William Smith the second time around. Overall, the Dutchwomen, who finished 8-8 overall and 2-5 in the Upstate Col- legiate Athletic Association were happy with their season. Men's Soccer Team End·s Season in a Sco,ring :prought brtter 2-0 overttme loss to Umversity by Jon Fader & Eric Svenson of Rochester, an embarrassing 5-0 Two weeks later, still no goals. killing by Middlebury College, and The Union soccer team has now flil• the season finale produced a 3-0 de- ished its seasot1 with a six game feat by Springfield College. The streak. That is not a six game win- team's demise can be attributed to ning streak. It is not even a six game both their offense and defense. The losing streak. It is a six game score- offense obviously hasn't been a scar- less streak for our beloved Dutchmen. ing powerhouse over the past few TI1ese six games have encompassed weeks, unable to finagle a single goal. three weeks and a total of 600 con- The defense wasn't exactly a steel secutive minutes played in which the curtain either, allowing 18 goals to soccer teain has not managed one slip past them in six games. The measly goal. In laymen's tenns that Dutchmen finished their seaon 4-10- equals I 0 consecutive scoreless hours 1, just a slight regression from last of play. To add insult to injury they season's 4-9-2 record. They certainly have been outscored 18-0 by their will not take part in any post-season opponents during this historical play and we can only hope that they drought. tlse the off-season to improve for next TI1e final three games included a year. OUtJ Tire Student Newspaper of U Volume CXXV, Nurnber IX S.chcncctady, New York Union: l, Schenectady: Zoning Laws Found Unconstitution~ Appeal On the Way by Elizabeth DeKoven News Editor After more than four years of disagrecJuent, Union College re- cently won its' dispute with the city of Schenectady concerning the colleges' use of the five resi- deutial properties that it owns on Lenox Road. Although the New York State Supreme Court in Schenectady County gave the college the right to occupy these properties, the city of Schenectady has filed .an appeal, thus further postponing the date that Union College will be able to utilize the properties' facilities. For every year that these proper- ties remain unoccupied, the col- lege is incurring a $500,000 loss in revenue. The five propetties in question are located in the General Elec- tric Realty Plot. The plot is con- sidered an A-2 Historic Residen- tial District because of its asso- ciation with important General Electric Scientists that once lived there and the plot's early twenti- eth century architecture. Due to the properties' location, the col- lege was forced to adhere to an 1984 amendment to a land ordi- nance that only allowed buildings in A-2 areas to be used for single family dwellings and special grants for public utility facilities, substation and structures. Last January President Hull took the city of Schet to court in an attempt the 1984 amendment stitutional. The court since decided that the : ment is unconstitutior \that the interest of I preservation trumps an tional use in every ir such that a balancing interest against the would not be necessar historic preservatiOn i1 thy aim and benefits tl munity is a propositi hardly bears stating, bt is the purpose of an tiona! institution.\ continued on pa See Lenox Rd Con1 Greek Kitchens: Status Bleak? Brand~. Declet Concordiensis Staff Currently, Greek kitchens on campus have been experiencing what the administration is calling a \transitional period.\ h1 a sense, the move last year by the Student Action Committee or SAC has led to a complete change in policy regarding the ability of Greek kitchens to have cooks. Accord- ing to Dean Alford, the future of the Greek kitchens on campus is \a financial question.\ This fi- nancial question led to a complete reexamination of the budget for the entire school. h1 the end, the administration reco that those students living in Greek money tl1at they rece houses on campus were receiving then technically be use privileges that most students on a cook. This comprc campus did not have and accord- sisted of a model tha1 ing to Dean Alford, the decision low fraternities and s was made that Union College, figure out equivalen \could no longer afford to exempt upon the number of 1 fraternities and sororities from the member was receivin. meal plan.\ They came up with This year, the Student Action allowed a 15 meal pia: Committee (SAC) recommended get the amount of m that the school allow for a transi- to 7 meals. In essenc tional year because the decision in a fraternity can tra was made so late last year. This 15 meals and the fra1 year all fraternity and sorority receive in cash the an members must be on meal plans to 7 meals or as the but they are allowed to get cash tion likes to call them back based on an equivalency ctes. Those on a 1 C odel made uo ~S~A~C~i·J~T~h~e~~~~~~~~S~ ·,,,' i•',',•.,,· .. ,•··. ·,..: ·' ··~ ,, \ .. :

at all MONDAY, .JANUARY 8, 1996: 7:00AM Nmth Terrace Lane barrier gate. THEFT: Traffic control sign stolen from 2:40 PMA D Phi VANDALISM: Window in door broken. Possible unauthorized access. TUESDAY, JANUARY 9,1996: 1:45 AM Fox House LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Fire extinquisher discharged in ro01T1 activating smoke detector .. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. 5:38AM Raymond South unauthorized access. 5:39 AM Achilles Rink area knocked down and damaged. 9:45AM Raymond South door damaged. VANDALISM: Door damaged. Possible VANDALISM: Roofers scaffolding 4:24 AMCampus Grounds EQUIPMENT MALFUNCTION: Broken transmission line for Fire Alann System-southwest section of campus. Fire watch established until repairs were made. II :00 AM Butterfield C.E. office Monday, 4:30 PMReamer Center bookbag left unattended in women's room. THEFT: Laptop computer taken from l/8/96. THEFT: Calculator taken from student's 5:42 PMSi&'llla Phi SAFETY HAZARD: Recurring fire trouble caused by tripped breaker. Electrical malfunction. Urgent work order filed. 9:45 PM Fox/Davidson Lot PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized. Repeat unregistered. violations. THURSDAY, JANUARY 11,1996: 2:58PM Alumni Gym THEFT: Cash stolen from student's wallet. Wallet was in an unlocked locker. 5:58PM Davidson House SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Students using marijuana in entry corridor. Students identified, Conduct Charges filed. 5:00 PMS&E SAFETY HAZARD: Chemical odor infiltrating from labs to corridors and offices on South side of building. Possible negative air balance in exhaust system. FRIDAY, JANUARY 12, 1996: 9:47AM Reamer Center MINOR FIRE: Power strip in use for electric toaster melted due to power overload. No damage except to power strip. SATURDAY, JANUARY 13, 1996: 1 :30 AM North College VANDALISM: Window in door broken. Possible unauthorized entry. 8:00AM Raymond South VANDALISM: Approximately 12 panes of glass broken. Students involved were identified. Conduct Charges filed. 12:25 PM Becker Circle PROPERTY DAMAGE: Two cars damaged by ice and snowfalling off of the roof of South College. 12:43 PM Off Campus MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT: Campus van involved in a property damage accident offcampus. No injury. 3:22 PMDavidson SAFETY HAZARD: Electrical outlet shorted when floor lamp was plugged in. Lamp removed from room. Outlet covered until repairs can be made. 5:00 PMParking Lots · designation signs at Lamont PROPERTY MISSING: Parking Lot and Delta Phi are missing. Work order filed for replacement. 9:50 PMDavidson VANDALISM/SAFETY HAZARD: Light fixture tom out of ceiling. Exposed electrical wires covered until fixture is repaired. 1 I :30 PM Humanities advised out of building filed. UNAUTHORIZED ACCESS: StUdent retumed without access authorization. Conduct Charges PROPERTY RECOVERED: Student in possession ofseating designation sign that was taken from the rink. Psi Upsilon SAFETY HAZARD: Emergency exit crash bar fell off of door. Campus Operations called in for repair. 9:40 AM Becker Circle PROPERTY DAMAGE: Student's car damaged by snow and ice falling off of South College roof~ 9:00 AM West College VANDALISM: Window screen and damaged by chair thrown out of laundry room window. I :00 PM Fox North SAFETY HAZARD: Debris in corridor blocking fire exiting. Residents had been requested to remove items. Urgent work order filed to have items removed. ·4:50PM Alumni Gym Lot PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized. Repeat unregistered violations. 8:35 PM Library Lane VANDALISM!fHEFT: Visitor's car window broken Pocketbook and other valuables stolen from the car. SPD noti- fied. 9:44 PM North College THEFT: Two pair of student's shoes stolen from hallway outside of student's room on 2nd floor. 9:55 PMNorth College THEFT: Student's walkman stolen from area 2nd floor. I l i j; ! ! . l l I 'J I I I. Campus News Hey, Give Greeks A by William E. Simon A former U. S. Treasury Secretary who is president of the John M. Olin Fm ln case you hadn't heard, the forces of political correctness have focused on an adversary they think they can handle: the \Greek system,\ that bastion of ca- maraderie, good fellowship and fun that has formed .the social hub of America's colleges and universities for more than a century. Apparently, all manner of mayhem is be.ing hatched for the future of America by an institution that allows col- lege-age youth to live together in one place, hold social events and find this thought so sinister that they now wish to drive fraternities and sororities off the campus altogether build lifelong friend- ships (who knows what they may be plotting!). Politically correct school ad- ministrator. After all, the very idea of being a member of a fraternity or sorority con- fers distinction: I am a member, and you are not. This idea runs against the grain of the radical egalitarianism imposed by college faculty and administrators, who see themselves molding a future society in which everyone \Vill he the same, no one wil1 be different, and all will exist on a dumped-down, common level. \That this concept does not make sense even in the most elementary applications has proved no deterrent to its spread,\ as philosopher Richard Weaver pointed out in his book \Ideas Have Conse- quences.\ Many of our colleges are now con- trolled by egalitarian faculty and admin- istrators who came of age in the 1960s, and who rejected fraternities and sorori- ·------ : 82 .. I . ties as impediments to thei'r plans to change the world. Now that they are in charge, they want to impose their dis- torted image of tile Greek system on today's generation. The modes of attack arc many, some subtle, some very direct; no doubt you've heard of some already. Charges of \haz- ing,\ or unsupervised, underage drink- ing are common- as if these are anything new among college-age youth and can't be dealt with in the usual ways. Hamilton College in Clinton,. N.Y., recently announced that living in frater- nity houses would not be an option for the coming academic year. The col:lege is .now trying to buy its seven fraternity houses at bargain-basement prices. Al- legations of h~zing caused trustees at Denison University in Granville, Ohio to vote recently that its fraternity houses should become \non-rcs·idential.\ that is, that there should he no frat houses, but fraternity members should live in the dormitories. In addition to Hamilton, Amherst CoJiege, Mass.~ Colby College, WateJ:Ville. Maine; and Middlebury col- lege in Middlebury, Vt. have banned Greek systems out-right. Bowdin col- lege, Brunswick, Maine no longer allows \single-sex\ fraternities and sororities. At Amherst and Colby, networks of \snitches\ have reportedly been set up to inform on \underground frats\ that inevitably have sprung up. Students thus \caught\ can expect to be expelled, sus- pended or disqualified from scholarships and student jobs. Nevertl College in twice to ab ing they ar1 mandate b) this fall is I band and t' since their low them tc similar app schools, pia in a no-win losing colle and losing 1 tions. This tr Jenged in h Greek hous sentatives, tiona! right: rated by co the choice 1 ity houses. point, this : US Constit cans \freed danger narr ternities an close to po: constitutior Communist exist freely the law. Rep. Rol men ofthe mittee, has the bow of fraterni tie Middlebur: TO Fl ~~ 1041 IIIII ltPI 882-6778 ----r--&ii%-o~ I I :lfltltll . . . ICReceive $2.00 off Photovision ; when visiting Moto Photo. I Receive SO% off the re I price of processins and 1 I color print filmi Limit one. Not valid with other coupons or offers. Club members receive 10% off coupon price. I Limit thr~e r~lls. Standard size pr Not vahd wtth other coupons or 1 I promotions. Club members receiv I I I. I coupon pnce . . o..,.,. . . Oltlllllltllllll MOTOI'HOJrJI MOTOPI. .A ..... -----------------·-----1

To publicize an event, e-mail the concordy at Concordy@gar.union .edu, or call the Concordy office at extension 6155. We would be happy to include any and all campus events in this calander. I\10NDA \',.JANUARY 8, 1996: 7:00 AM Nmth Terrace Lane barrier gate. THEFT: Traffic control sign stolen from 2:40 PMA D Phi VANDALISM: Window in door broken. Possible unauthorized access. TUESDAY, JANUARY 9, 1996: I :45 AM Fox House LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Fire extinquisher discharged in room activating smoke detector. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. 5:38AM Raymond South unauthorized access. 5:39 AM Achilles Rink area knocked down m~d damaged. 9:45 AM Raymond South door damaged. WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 10, 1996: VANDALISM: Door damaged. Possible VANDALISM: Roofers scaffolding 4:24 AMCampus Grounds EQUIPMENT MALFUNCTION: Broken transmission line for Fire Alann System-southwest section of campus. Fire watch established until repairs were made. II :00 AM Butterfield C. E. office Monday, 4:30PM Reamer Center bookbag left unattended in women's room. THEFT: Laptop computer taken from 1/8/96. THEFT: Calculator taken from student's 5:42 PM Sigma Phi SAFETY HAZARD: Recurring fire trouble caused by tripped breaker. Electrical malfunction. Urgent work order filed. 9:45 PMFox/Davidson Lot PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized. Repeat unregistered violations. THURSDAY, .JANUARY 11, 1996: 2:58PM Alumni Gym THEFT: Cash stolen from student's wallet. Wallet was in an unlocked locker. 5:58PM Davidson House SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Students using marijuana in entry corridor. Students identified, Conduct Charges filed. 5:00 PMS&E SAFETY HAZARD: Chemical odor infiltrating from labs to corridors and offices on South side of building. Possible negative air balance in exhaust system. FRIDAY, JANUARY 12,1996: 9:4 7 AM Reamer Center MINOR FIRE: Power strip in use for electric toaster melted due to power overload. No damage except to power strip. SATURDAY, JANUARY 13,1996: I :30 AM Nm1h College \' ANDALISM: Window in door broken. Possible unauthorized entry. 8:00AM Raymond South VANDALISM: Approximately 12 panes of glass broken. Students involved were identified. Conduct Charges filed. 12:25 PM Becker Circle PROPERTY DAMAGE: Two cars damaged by ice and snowfalling off of the roof of South College. 12:43 PM Off Campus MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT: Campus van involved in a property damage accident off campus. No injury. 3:22 PMDavidson SAFETY HAZARD: Electrical outlet shorted when floor lamp was plugged in. until repairs can be made. Lamp removed from room. Outlet covered PROPERTY MISSING: Parking 5:00 PMParking Lots designation signs :11 Lamont for replacement. Lot and Delta Phi are missing. Work order filed 9:50 PMDavidson VANDALISM/SAFETY HAZARD: Light fixture tom out of ceiling. Exposed electrical wires covered until fixture is repaired. II :30 PM Humanities UNAUTHORIZED ACCESS: Student advised out of building retumed without access authorization. Conduct Charges filed. SUNDAY,JANUARY 14,1996: 12:49 AM Achilles Rink PROPERTY RECOVERED: Student in possession of seating designation sign that was taken from the rink. 3:00AM Psi Upsilon SAFETY HAZARD: Emergency exit crash bar fell off of door. Campus Operations called in for repair. 9:40 AM Becker Circle PROPERTY DAMAGE: Student's car damaged by snow and ice falling off of South College roof. West College VANDALISM: Window screen and damaged by chair thrown out of laundry room window. I :00 PM Fox North SAFETY HAZARD: Debris in corridor blocking fire exiting. Residents had been requested to remove items. Urgent work order filed to have items removed. 4:50 PMAlumni Gym Lot PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized. Repeat unregistered violations. 8:3 5 PM Library Lane V ANDALISMffHEFT: Visitor's car window broken Pocketbook and other valuables stolen from the car. SPD noti- fied. 9:44 PMNorth College THEFT: Two pair ofstudenCs shoes stolen from hallway outside of student's room on 2nd floor. 9:55 PMNorth College THEFT: Student's walkman stolen from stu area 2nd floor.

Cam.pus News The Conconlicnsis • January 18, 1996• Page 3 Hey, Give Greeks A Break Already by William E. Simon · A former U. S. Treasury Secretary who is president of the John M. Olin Foundation and a trustee of The 1 Icritage Foundation. In case you hadn't heard, the forces of political correctness have focused on an adversary they think they can handle: the \Greek system,\ that bastion of ca- maraderie, good fellowship and fun that has formed the social hub of America's colleges and universities for more than a century. Apparently, all manner of mayhem is being hatched for the future of America by an institution that allows col- lege-age youth to live together in one place, hold social events and find this thought so sinister that they now wish to drive fraternities and sororities off the campus altogether build lifelong friend- ships (who knows what they may be plotting!). Politically correct school ad- ministrator. After all, the very idea of being a member of a fraternity or sorority con- fers distinction: I am a member, and you are not. This idea runs against the grain of the radical egalitarianism imposed by college faculty and administrators, who see themselves molding a future society in which everyone will be the same, no one will be different, and all will exist on a dumped-down, common level. 'That this concept does not make sense even in the most elementary applications has proved no deterrent to its spread,\ as philosopher Richard Weaver pointed out in his book \Ideas Have Conse- quences.\ - Many of our colleges are now con- trolled by egalitarian faculty and admin- istrators who came of age in the 1960s, and who rejected fraternities and sorori- ties as impediments to their plans to change the world. Now that they are in charge, they want to impose their di·s- torted image of the Greek system on today' s generation. The modes of attack arc many, some subtle, some very direct: no doubt you've heard of some already. Charges of \haz- ing,\ or unsupervised, underage drink- ing are common- as if these are anything new among college-age youth and can't be dealt with in the usual ways. Hamilton College in Clinton, N.Y., recently announced that living in frater- nity houses would not be an option for the coming academic year. The college is .now trying to buy its seven fraternity houses at bargain-basement prices. Al- legations of hazing caused trustees at Denison University in Granville, Ohio to vote recently that its fraternity houses should become \non-residential.\ that is, that there should he no frat houses, but fraternity members should live in the dormitories. In addition to Hamilton. Amherst College, Mass.: Colby College, Waterville, Maine; and Middlebury col- lege in Middlebury, Vt. have banned Greek systems out-right. Bowdin col- lege, Brunswick, Maine no longer allows \single-sex\ fraternities and sororities. At Amherst and Colby, networks of \snitches\ have reportedly been set up to inform on \underground frats\ that inevitably have sprung up. Students thus \caught\ can expect to be expelled, sus- pended or disquali lied from scholarships and student jobs. Nevertheless, the faculty of Trinity College in Hartford, Conn., have voted twice to abolish all Greek groups, say- ing they are sexist, elitist and racist. A mandate by the trustees to go coed by this fall is forcing one fraternity to dis- band and two others to face extinction, since their national charters do not al- low them to accept women members. A similar approach, taken by a number of schools, places fraternities and sororities in a no-win situation: not going coed and losing college recognition, or going coed and losing their historic national affilia- tions. This tactic has already been chal- lenged in lawsuits filed by members of Greek houses and their national repre- sentatives, who say that the constitu- tional rights of students have been vio- lated by colleges that are denying them the choice to live in fraternity or soror- ity houses. From a strictly legal stand- point, this should he a nn-hraincr. The US Constitution guarantees all Ameri- cans \freedom of association,\ and no danger named by the opponents of fra- ternities and sororities comes remotely close to posing a legal challenge under constitutional standards that allow the Communist party and Ku Klux Klan to exist freely so long as they do not break the law. Rep. Robert Livingston, R-La. Chair- men ofthe House Appropriations Com- mittee, has fired a warning shot across the bow of four private colleges that ban fraternities- Bowdoin, Colby, Middlebury and Hamilton- reminding them by letter that as recipients of fed- eral funds they are expected to be espe- cially vigilant to protect First Amend- ment rights. And I am informed that Rep. Henry Hyde, R-Ill., and Sen. Larry Craig, R-Idaho, are working on statutes to restore First Amendment rights to all campuses. David Easlick, executive director of Delta Kappa Epsilon, speaks most clearly on just why the politically cor- rect are attacking the Greek system. In a recent article coauthored with Thomas Short, he notes: \Fraternities engage stu- dents' attention and absorb their ener- gies in ways that distract from the incul- cation of guilt and anger. More impor- tant, Fraternities provide a social set- ting ... in which their members can share their reactions to campus events and dis- cover that they are not alone in doubt- ing the doctrines so insistently promul- gated. This provides much needed psy- chological support for independent thought. Fraternities, in short, have be- come a sanction for campus heterodoxy, and that is why there are those who feel they must be stamped out.\ I believe it was the late Malcolm Muggeridge who coined the term \fear- ful symmetry,\ by which he referred to the tendency of things to work out in ways that reveal the truth behind real- ity. In the present case, I think it fitting that the humorless legions of political correctness- so fanatical about finding fault with the world- wind up trying to stamp out the good-natured spirit of fun and fellowship on our nation's cam- puses. 0 MOTO PHOTO FOR SUPER SAVINGSI Scblln8ctady 1 041 State Street 382-6718 • • ·-·--- : 82. ------i--------------------------· 1 liOo/0 OFF i 84.99 I I . •PHOTOVI •e ~ Receive $2.00 off Photovision I when visiting Moto Photo. Limit one. Not valid with other coupons or offers. Club members receive I 0% off coupon pnce. ! PR_8~ESSING ! 8 ~i~~3~~i I ~ecetve 50 YO ~ff the re~~ I From your 3Sm.m. color 1 I pnce ofprocess~ng and pnntmg I negative. I 1 . . color pnnt filma I c I I Ltmtt three rolls. Standard size prints only. ustom cropping may be available at I Not valid with other coupons or extra set I additional charge. Not valid wtth other I promotions. Club members receive 10% off I coupons 0 [oo~fer;i Club members recetve I I I I I . coupon price. o o coupon pnce. I 01116 HOUII I MOTOI'HO d I t:NI& 1101111 lt ot~•IIOUII ----------~------~giQ~!~'JtL----~9IQ!~~~

Tiie't\oncordicnsis • January 18~ t 996 • Page 4 A Faithful Fraternity by Stephanie Slobatkin Co11tributing Writer 1l1e brothers in l11eta Delta Chi have displayed their generosity by making a single child's life easier and happier. At the beginning of November, the brother:s of Theta Delta Chi received a letter from a particular young girl's teacher. TI1e con- tents of the letter explained that Erin Phelps, a fourteen year old eighth grader, who is afflicted with the genetic disease Cystic Fibrosis (CF) needed help. TI1e medical attention required, along with fre- quent hospital visits, are only a few of the many financial burdens placed upon Erin's family. Erin became ·deaf at the age of seven, from a dmg that had been adminis- tered to her to treat an infection she had developed. In order for Erin to be safe and enj.oy some oflife 's pleasures, her teacher asked the brothers if they would help out Erin and her family. In the effort to make a difference in Erin's life. the brothers of Theta Delta Chi willingly and happily responded to the let- ter. Just a few days after receiving the let- ter. the brothers sent $190 to help ease the financial burden. In a \Thank You\ note received soon thereafter, the brothers were informed that Erin now had a new Telecaption 4000 Closed Caption Decoder for her television. This now enables Erin to watch television with the words appear- ing at the bottom of the screen. Without the help of the brothers indirectly purchas- ing this devise, Erin would be unable to enjoy television. Prior to this generous donation, the brothers had also given another contribu- tion to Erin's family for her CF. About seven years ago, Titeta Delta Chi was in- formed of Erin's disease through their cook, Mrs. \C.\ For the purpose of help- ing someone in need from their commu- nity' the brothers gave a donation then too. Both donations were very much appre- ciated. The brothers have done something positive for the community as well as for themselves. A Junior, Jesse Shafer, and brother of Theta Delta Chi, said, \We were glad to be assisting the community ... by helping an individual who lives close in proximity. we were able to see the results.\ Another junior from the fratemity. Ben Fox. commented: \Givin~ once to Erin wns generous, hut knowing ·Ne could help her again. years later was gratifying.\ The fratemity brothers were faithful to (~rin and her family in their time of need. Thanks to the .efforts and donations from all of the \n1eta Delta Chi brothers, Erin has one more thing to be happy about. A Discussion of Dating Options by Henrik Haeckel Staff Writer The beginning of this Winter Trimester has been marked by a tlun)' of debate over the social scene at Union, in particular the issue dating. On Wednesday, January I Oth. there was a Crosstalk held at Chcts discussing the dating scene at Union. The panelist included Suzie Benack, from the Psychology Department, Noelle Pirnie. Class of 1997. Steven Levitt, from the An- thropolO!,.'Y Department. and John Shapiro. Class of 1996. l11e debate centered around the \hook up scene\ which was contrib- uted mainly to drunkenness. While there were complaints from the audience of the \hook up scene\ there was very little dis- cussion of solutions to the problem. l11e idea of a social alternative to the fra- ternity party was brought up by John Shapiro. Shapiro clearly articulated the need for a more intimate social option. The Crosstalk in fact served as a promotion for the up coming \A Night on the Town\ sponsored by a group of fratemities·. the Student Forum. and the Dean of Students Office. The original plan for \A Night on the Town\ was to have a dance floor in the Nott Memorial with music provided by the seven piece band, Grand Central Station. There was to be a second location perhaps in Old Chapel with food and Refreshments. llowcver, this plan was scraped due to the pour weather conditions. ··n1e final plan has \J\ Night on the Town\ taking place in Old Chapel and I I ale I louse, with Grand Central Station providing entertainment and a bar with food and refreshments. 1l1e thrust of this exercise is to provide an opportunity to take a date in semifor- mal attire. an altemative to Fraternity parties. \TI1e Idea was to create something that everybody could enjoy.\ (Jessie Shafer) TI1e cost of admission is five dol- lars per couple with an open invitation to the entire campus. If the eveilt is success- ful there may be plans in the future to make this an annual event taking place each tenn. · Campus News Women's Rush: In Trouble? by '\lartin Metz Staff Writer As the winter tcnn begins again this year, so does the process of both male and fe· male rush. The rush period fm males started last Wednesday, the tenth, and is a ninet_een-day-long period ending on the twenty-ninth, the first day fratemities. are permitted to give out bids. As you may have already seen at the booth set up in the College Center, females had three days to sign up for rush which begins Sunday, the twenty first, and ends on Friday tl1e twenty sixth. TI1e three-day period is new this year, as opposed to tbe five-day pe- riod that was in place up until last year. Panhellenic President Caroline Miller said that the three-day period was instituted because the five-day period wasn't needed, and most women know wheth.er or not they are going to rush by the beginning of win- ter tenn. Both the Inter-Fratemity Council and Panhellenic Co unci I had pre-rush meetings last Wednesday to discuss the process with potential rushees, and to an• swcr any questions about rush that they might have. However; while the meeting fonnale rush was well attended, ~d more pe0ple showed up than were expected, the number of females who showed up to the Panhelle11ic meeting was significantly lower when compared to past years. The low tumout has left some cause for con- ·cem whether it is an indication of a low turnout forwomen's rush this year. In an interview,. Dean Shurick said that if you look at the numbers, there is no real trend of women's rush decreasing-.....,.orin- creasing for that matter-as it has always been pretty consistent. Furthennore, she felt that the low turnout at the pre-rush meeting might be due to another factor, such as publicity. Publicity was one of the factors to wh.ich IFC president Steve Lapinsky attributed the larger-than-nonnal turnout at the men's rush convocation. Panhell's Miller also mentioned that they :have had trouble with advertising this year. While the lowtumout at the women's rush convocation might be some cause for con- cem, sororities will have to wait until rush period begins for the actual turnout to be ,cfctcnn in ed. Lenox Road Controversy Prior to bringing the city to court. the college attempted to compromise with the city on numerous occasions. The college offered to maintain the exterior of the homes with the exception of handicapped entrances and to sell all other col- lege owned properties in the realty plot. Additionally, to appease the city, the college originally planned on using the Lenox Road properties as an administra- tive space, in order to clear build- mgs on cam- pus for addi- tional hous- ing. The ad- ministration has since de- cided that they will use the proper- tics for cam- pus housing. J\ccord- 111£ Presi- dent Hull, the city of Schenectady has filed a notice of ap- peal. hut has not said any- thing else a bout their plahs for the future and have not of- fered to compro- mise. Union College is the second largest pri- vate em- ployer in the ·Oil .. city and Union's campus serves as the cities number one tourist attraction. Com- menting on Union College's recent victory, President Hull said, \We won and we will continue to win legally. The question is at what point will the city realize that they are wasting time and money.\ The city of Schenectady's attorneys at Corporat1on Council were unavailable for comment prior to the publication of this paper. tt is e~ tt ft i~ \1\ U1 dl b rc: a~ t< rr C' c~ h C1 g tl 0 i~ tl b n rr p \! ·' fi 'I g 11 ~ p p t l u ll ti I! ti i i \I 2 \ q ('' c tl ., l ,, II 'I 1: (\ t) i' ,) ~ 11 II i ~ !i n 1 n I! tl a If c 1 I ti I $ I' I \ a I ( c 1 F f f ( j: r r1 a I= c c \ t t ! I L ,, t I I

'. I' 1. The Nature of the Commitment Can and will America Balance its Budget, and who cares? by M~.ftt Sandier . World News Editor The debate over bringing the federal budget into balance is only the beginning. Although economists are not alarmed by the debt or deficit right now, in the post short term outlook, there is cause for worry. Further, when have economists ever been united on pol icy? The deficit and debt are national security issues because money is not a .flexible resource. The generation known as the Baby Boomers is going to be retiring soon. As more and more money is sucked into so- cial entitlement programs, the commitment to domestic and in- ternational agendas will hit crunch zones. As it is now, Con- gress, armed with the power of the purse, controls only a third of the budget. As more money is aUoted into different groups, the United States is anee the government by 2002, a process that has not occurre~ since 1969. The Republicans have made concessions to the President who has finally submitted abalanced budget, and the President has made concessions in return. Un- derlying these issues is an ideo- logical fight and election politics. Republicans want higher tax cuts than the president would like. hi this negotiating process. they have moved from their original figure of $245 bfl1ion over a seven year period, to $203 billion. President Clinton wants $87 billion in tax cuts which could rise to $147hillion ifthc economy performs as well as ex- pected. What has been labeled as a cut in the media is really controlling the rate of growth. There are two ways to look at this. First, an increase in spend- ing from $4,200 per person on President advocates a balanced budget that reflects his percep· tion of what the American people value, arguing that they would oppose the excessive cuts in Medicare, Medicaid. education, and the environment. During a Congressional Spe- cial Orders speech in December 1995, Repressentative Horn of California has compiled a de- tailed study of the financial government's assets and liabili- ties. His office tabulated the out- standing financial commitments: the entitlement programs, pen- sion funds, veterans affairs, de- fense, education, international obligations, crime prevention, . , drug enforcement, and law en- forcement. All these Treasury liabilities were valued at $28 trillion well into the next century. Assume that as of three o'clock today, on this cold Thursday afternoon, we have a balanced budget being forced to sac- rifice its commit- ment to all the people who do not fall into the entitled groups. Namely, the elderly, the poor. and the unem,. ployed. Baby Boomers are going to be retiring soon. As more and more money is sucked away toward social entitlement pro- grams, the comm-itment to domestic and international agendas wi11 hit crunch in place. A per- son born today, this minute, will repay $187,000 in debt over his lifetime and inter- est payments for past actions. The zones. Deficit reduction under the Clinton Administra· tion has decreased the Gross Na- tional Product from 5 percent to 2.2 percent. Additionally, when compared to other major indus· trialized nations, the GNP ofthe U.S. ranks as one of the lowest.. The fact remains, however, that the United States is a rich coun- try. Funding for major programs is based partly in· millions but more and more in the billions. The accumulation of these pay· rnents reaches into trillions. One trillion is a 1 with twelve zeros after it. (J ,000,000,000,000). Our National debt is almost five times that amount, corrected at $4.9 trillion, which will prob· ably be increased to meet finan- cial obligations due in February. Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin has borrowed $_60 billion from the Civil Service Pension fund to meet past obligations. Only Congress has the author· ity to raise this debt ceiling. The reason for this is that by law any money borrowed from that fund, and only that fund, will be re- paid. Where is that 60 billion dollars going to come from? With a~ artificial debt ceiling of $4.9 trillion, and an intrac- table budget deadlock, where is the United States headed? The Republicans have .done some· thing extra-ordinary-- they have produced a budget that will baJ. Medicare now to $7, lOO dollars in 2002 is an increase. Second, if this increase does not keep pace with inflation then the value of the dollar will not be worth the same as it would be if it did keep pace with inflation. With this in mind, the Medi- care program will hit bankruptcy by 2002. A restructuring of the progr.am is peed_ed _as well as higher premiums. President Clinton thinks the Republican plans are too excessive eventhough the Republicans scaled their plan down from al- most $33 billion to $168 billion. Mr. Clinton's plans tor Medicare are about $100 billion. In addi- tion, the Republicans want to . turn Medicaid over to the states as block grants, ending the fed- eral guarantee while President Clinton wants to keep the feder~ ally guaranteed entitlement. Bill Clinton's Medicaid savings are $54 billion. The Republicans have scaled down their spend- ing limit for Medicaid by $3 1 billion down to $85 billion. In total savings, Mr. Clinton has proposed $619 billion while the Republicans have a total of$651 billion. However, the savings ate neither in the same catego· ries nor do they follow the same policy. Republican ideology advocates smal Jer government and decentralization and the part of the budget that Congress can control will •. undcr this strain, di- minish exponentially. Represen· tative Horn said that \more young people today believe that they will see a UFO, than be· lieve in the fact that Social Se- curity will be there when they reti rc.\ Assume now that no balanced budget has been reached and bear in mind thatthe Baby Boomers arc going to re· tire soon. Also remember that it is not just Medicare that is in trouble. Social Security will hit bankruptcy sometime after 2010. As it stands now, there is $360 billion collected from working Americans to pay for Social Security. About $325 billion is alloted to recipients. The current excess is being bor- rowed for other purposes. Soon, that surplus will run out, and then bankruptcy will occur. No one wants his parents or grand- parents to lose benefits. bu asociety wide scale, our co mmitments arc unaffordahle. What can we do? As part of any budget deal there is going to be tax cuts. A political choice. The Republicans want power out ofWashington and money in the hands of the people who work for it. President Clinton wants modest tax rcliefthat does not undermine the commitments and investments made in educa· tion, welfare, various social pro- grams, and the environment. However, imagine this scenario: No tax cuts and a one percent· age point adjustment in the Con- sumer Price Index which econo· mists say overstates inflation by one percentage point. The Con- sumer Price Index is used to calculate pensions and Cost of Living Adjustments to Social Security. A change of that num- ber would produce, over a seven year period, $281 billion in saved money that the govern- ment is entitled to keep. In ad- dition, the Internal Revenue Ser- vice can institute, with Con- gress, a closure of tax loopholes which everyone knows exists . hut nothing is done. Further, a restructuring of Medicare and Medicaid by at least $150 bil- lion for Medicare and $100 bil- lion for Medicaid, over a seven year period, will add to these savings. In addition, savings from the discretionary program, by controlling the rate of growth, would still increase spending in defense. cducati on, the environment. In summary, savings of$150 billion in Medicare, $100 billion in Medicaid. $281 billion in the Consumer Price Index, eliminat· ing the tax cut (conservatively estimated at $\30 billion). and the savings in discretionary spending of $383 billion, all over seven years, will result in 1.044 trillion in savings. This is close to a $400 billion dollar surplus over seven years. This money can be used to keep the budget in balance after 2002, and with advanced planning, can begin to decrease the debt by retiring it. These savings do not factor into the closing oftax loopholes which cannot be esti· mated here. Regardless of the exact number, the overall sav- ings will increase by billions. Furthermore, there is no rea· son the Supreme Court cannot get involved in this issue. Rep- resentative Horn pointed out that the government has been moving away from a program oriented spending to group or entitled spending since the 1960's. It can be argued that burdening the babies born today with $187,000 in debt to finance the benefits of their parents and grandparents is unconstitutional because the same programs won't be available for them. And therefore, they are being denied their right to life. liberty, and the pursuit of happiness or a quality life. This is taxation without representation. This could well be the seeds of a revolution. Now the most crucial and probably the most difficult issue is the enhancement of National Savings. AfterWorldWarli,the United States hit a recession and then entered into a great eco· nomic boom. Why did this oc- cur? During the War, the American people had money but very little to spend it on, so they saved. After the war, people wanted to spend that money but there was nothing to buy. Once the wartime economy converted back to· civilian capacity, the economic boom took off mainly because people had money to spend and producers met that_ de- mand. The heart ofthe great and sound economy relies in a strong national sav:ngs. A balanced budget would lower interest rates and spur eco. nomic growth. If American's are properly encouraged, this eco· nomic growth could spur the savings that America needs. Encouraging increased savings may cost the government money. These savings can also be chan- neled into a coordinated effort combined with national pride and citizenship. The govern- ment can rally around this effort. America's capacity to rally for a cause should never be under- estimated. We saw this in World War 1 with Liberty bonds and in World War II in efforts to create a united America. This could very well become the rallying cry of the nineties. It is not a gross exaggeration to 5ee school children on T.V. putting money in the bank, proud to be doing so. Parents can work with their children in develop- ing goals and incentives for hard work. For work around the house, consistently good grades, hardworking effort, and the spirit of responsibility, parents can institute a matching fee in which money that the children contribute will be matched by a contribution from their parents and will be instituted into the child's savings. Our society is consumption based, but with a coordinated effort we can insti· tute real long term economic growth that benefits the country. Theoretically, this could be done with government mandates that all Americans must keep and add on a regular basis to their sav· ings however, the program will work better if it is done with no mandates, but with pride, team· work, and the American spirit of individualism. The real work in controlling deficits and debts is National savings, and consump- tion within measured means. A stronger national savings will accomplish just that. The idea has been planted and I challenge everyone to help it grow. 5

Plt~e 6 .Janif:n·y 18, 1996 The Concordiensis The Ring of Death by Matt Sandier World News Editor It was around 9 AM. January 5, when a hannless looking cellular phone rang. l11e short conversation was replaced by an explosion. Osama Hamad, who was a college roommate and member ofHamas, was sheltering the fugitive Yahya Ayyash and his family, in his house in Beit Lahiya, in th!! Gaza Strip. Mr. Ayyash was a deadly fugitive evading Israeli security for many months. Known as the \Engineer he was responsible for orchestrat- ing .the suicide bombings inside Is- rael in the wake of the lsraeli-P.L.O. peace accord. It is a fact that niore people died by terrorist acts after the peace accord was signed than when the state of war and tensions were extremely high. Osama Hamad's uncle Kamal Hamad, is known for being a con- tractor with immense wealth and has been linked to the Israeli mili- tary government that ran the occu- pied territory in Gaza. ()sama I Jamad began working for his uncle four months ago, and received a cell phone for business use. Kamal Hamad borrowed the phone numer- ous times. Osama Hamad said that his uncle called last Friday and in- stmcted him to turn the phone on with the anticipation of the call Mr. Ayyash 's father could not get through on the main line. That line was being obstructed. Mr. Ayyash's fatherhadthenumberto the cellular phone. ''tvlr. Hamad an- swered initially and gave i.t to the fugitive terrorist ·mastermind. When the voice was confinned as being his, the phone was detonated by remote control from a plane that was flying above. Residents said that a plane had been in the area recently. The phone was packed with 50 grams, close to two ounces. of high-grade explosives, and de- noted according to Israeli press re- ports by a radio signal from the plane. Half of Mr Ayyash 's head was blown off as well as his hand. Kamal Hamad has since disap- peared; with reports saying that he was paid a million dollars and is hiding .in the United States with a new identity. Yasir Arafat criticized Israel for the attack. Mr. Arafat, a fanner ter- rorist leader turned peace maker has carved out a delicate tmce with the militant group Hamas. Hamas agreed to the truce with Yasir Arafat, saying that Hamas would not take part in the elections or call for a boycott of them on the Janu- ary 20th election date, and further pledged not to take actions that might embarrass the Palestinian leadership. Analysts have inter- preted this as suspensionofterror- ist attacks against Israel. Tens of thousands of people in Gaza at- tended Mr. Ayyash 's limcral vow- ing vengeance. I lamas is most cer- tainly going to act against Israel. What effect this will have on the elections arc not known. Israeli officials have neither confirmed, nor denied responsibility for the as- sassination. No extra-effort has been lllade to emphatically deny the operation. Israel did this operation. As they would argue, Mr. Ayyash 's actions justified the responJc. Mr. Ayyash 's terrorism, broug~t the skill uflsraeli counter-terrorism to hear. The operation ha~ bee.r~ cred- ited to the Shin Bet Security S.er- vice, which is responsible for do- mestie law enforcement. However, it would not be surprising ifMielssad agents did not have a hand in the operatibn. World News Question of the Week Do you think that the NATO mission in Bosnia will succed? Can these wounds be healed? I fNATO leaves and fighting resumes is that a failure or as the international community given the people ofthe Former Yugoslavia, a chance for peace? Please send your comments to Box 1928. Responses no more than 250 words. by Michelle Nierer Staff Writer - Govemor George Pataki has pro- posed a bill which would order J IIV testing for perpetrators of crimes. Testing would only be mandated for crimes in which there was contact of bodily fluid between the assailant and the vic- tim ifthe victim so wishes. Cur- rently, the law allows judges to order HIV testing only for people convicted of sex crimes. governor Pataki feels this new bill would ensure that victims of violent crimes do not have to spend months in tunnoil waiting to see if they contracted the virus. Op- position to the proposed bill feels that it would cause a further stigma on HIV patients. ~ Mayor of New York City, Mr. Giuliani this week announced the creation of a new department to be responsible for the welfare of chil- dren. TI1e new agency, the Admin- istration for Children's Service!; will not he a part of the !Iuman Re- sources as traditional child welfare programs have been. It will instead be a separate departrrient headed by Nicholas Scoppetta. TI1e Ad- ministration for Children's Ser- vices will be responsible for fos- ter care and child protection in the city. - Dennis Vacca, the State Attor- ney General started an investiga- tion this week into payments alleg- edly made to the First Lady, Hillary Rodham Clinton. Vacca's inves- tigation coincides with the recent Whitewater scandal. Vacco is in- terested in large payments made py the National Center on Education and the Economy made to Mrs.Ciintonjust before and maybe during the President's campaign for office. ... - - - - - .,;. - - - -- - -· - - - - - ... - - - - - - - - -- - - - - . ~ - IHS1'R11CT1116 . \.Kneel Kiss Foot, World News - J, I ! I tl a v l \' \' \' [I p n n a v ti n e ~ '. n v s n l e n n h ( a J: ~ t l t r a F ), a c r ' f ( r s ( r I t a [ c ( ( s ( (; r r ( ( '

Pa~c 6 .January 18, 1996 The Concordicnsis The Ring of Death hy Matt Sandler World News Editor It was around C) AM. January 5. when a hannless looking cellular phone rang. 1l1e short conversation was replaced by an explosion. ()sama Hamad. who was a college roommate and member of Hamas. was sheltering the fugitive Yahya J\yyash and his family, in his house in Beit Lahiya. in the Gaza Strip 1\.lr Ayyash was a deadly fugitive C\ aJmg Israeli security for many months Known as the \Engineer.\ he was responsible for orchestrat- ing the suicide bombings inside Is- rael in the wake of the lsraeli-PLO peace accord. It is a fact that more people died by terrorist acts after the peace accord was signed than when the state of war and tensions were extremely high. Osama Hamad's uncle Kamal Hamad. is known for being a con- tractor with immense wealth and has been linked to the Israeli mili- tmy government that ran the occu- pied territory in Ciaza. Osarna J lam ad began working for his uncle four months ago. and received a cell phone for business use. Kamal Hamad borrowed the phone BUtner- otiS times. Osama llaiPml said that his uncle called last Friday and in- stmcted him to tum the phone on with the anticipatirtn oft he call \ lr ·\yyash's father could not ,;ct through on the main line. l11at line was being obstructed Mr Ayyash 's father had the number to the cellular phone. Mr. Hamad an- swered initially and gave i_i to the fugitive terrorist mastermind. When the voice was confinned as being his, the phone was detonated hy remote control from a plane that was flying abm·e. Residents said that a plane had been in the area recently. The phone was packed with 50 grams, close to two ounces. of high-grade cxrlosives. and de- noted accordiBg to Israeli press re- ports by a radio signal from the plane. Half of Mr Ayyash's head was blown off as weU as his hand. Kamal Hamad has since disap- peared: with reports saying that he was paid a million dollars and is hiding in the !Jnited States with a new identity Yasir J\rafat criticized Israel f(lr the attack Mr /\raf~1t. a fonner ter- rorist leader tumed peace maker has carved out a delicate truce with the militant group llamas. Hamas agreed to the tmce with Yasir Arafat. saying that llamas would not take part in the elections or call for a boycott of them on the Janu- ary 20th election date, and further pledged not to take actions that might embarrass the Palestinian leadership Analysts have inter- preted this as suspension oftetTor- ist attacks against Israel. Tens of thousands nf people in (1aza at- tended Mr !\yynsh 's funer<JI vow- in)!. vcr1geance I lamas is most cer- tainly going to act against Israel. What effect this will have on the elections are not known Israeli officials have neither confirmed, nor denied responsibility for the as- sassination No extra-effort has hccn maJc tn e1nphati(;ally Jcny the operation Israel did this operation. As they would argue, Mr Ayyash 's <Jctionsjustified the respomfc Mr J\yyash' s terrorism. hrougr1t the skill oflsJaeli t:uunter-temnism to hear. The operation ha~ hee.n cred- ited to the Shin Bet Security S.er- vice, which is responsible for do- mestic law enforcement. I lowever. it would not be smptising iff\.ftlssad agents did not have a hand in the operation. World News Question of the Week Do you think that the NATO mission in Bosnia will sucecd'J Can these wounds he healed? I fNATO leaves and fighting resumes is that a failure or as the international community given the people of the Former Yugoslavia, a chance for peace') Please send your comments to Box 1928. Responses no more than 250 words - . - - - - by Michelle Nierer Staff Writer - Ciovemor ( ieorpe P<Jtakr has pro- plJ<,cd a bill v,hidl would order Ill\' testin)!. for perpetrators of uimes Testing would only be mandated for crimes in which there v.as contact of bodily fluid between the assailant and the vic- tim ifthe victim so wishes Cm- rently, the law allows judges to order HIV testing only for people convicted of sex crimes ~ovemor rataki feels this new hill would ensure that \ ictims of violent crimes do not have to spend months in tunnoil waiting to see if they contracted the virus. Op- position to the proposed bill feels that it would cause a further stigma on I UV pntients · Mayor of New York City. Mr Giuliani this week announced the creation of a new department to he responsible fort he welfare of chil- dren. ·n1e new agency. the Admin- istration for Children's Services will not he a par1 nfthe !Iuman Rc- \' 1111 ccs as traditional child wei fare prof!rams have hcen It will instead he a separate department headed hy Nicholas Scoppctta. ·n1e Ad- ministration f(lr Children's Ser- vices will he responsible for fos- ter cnre nnd child protection in the city - Denn1s Vacco. the St<Jte Attor- ney (.iencral staned an investiga- tion this week into payments alleg- edly made to the First Lady, I Iillary Rodham Clinton. Vacco's inves- tigation coincides with the recent Whitewater scandal. Vacca is in- terested in large payments made py the National Center on Education and the Economy made to Mrs Clinton just before and maybe durinp: the President's campaip:n for office. I~ t. Knetl ,z. Kiss Foot World News ===::: -- ' l \ t r e f (

'· I, J ' I t Residence Li(e The Concordiensis • January 18, 1996 • Page 7 · Richmond Lo.ses a Gym and Gains a Study Room •• • .But They Shall Not Break Us In the beginning ofFall term, the hall government of Richmond asked the residents for some ad- vice on what the building needed. The top thing on almost every I ist a quiet place to study. With winter closing in and differences with roommates increasing to- wards the middle of the term, the residents of Richmond wanted a place that did not have their bed nearby calling to them every ten minwtes, that was not far to walk, and that was quiet enough to. get work done. An impossible dream not quite. After some ques- tioning, the Hall Government rep- resentatives found that an old ex- ercise room in the west end of Richmond was large enough to suit the building's purpose. How- ever, the problem was that there was a large universal gym in the center, about a dozen mattresses, three or four bags of los~ and found clothes, and some other junk' that needed to be gotten rid of before the idea could be re- motely feasible. What do you do with all that stuff? was the ques- tion that the representatives tack- led next None ofthe fraternities on campus were able to house the by. Kathy Wa~ter Resident Assistant Ricllmoml exerCise equipment, so the Hall Government was advised to do- nate it. It was decided that since Richmond is an all-female residence hall, the most logical place would be the YWCA. As a local women, s organization, the YWCA offers support to women in the areas of Domestic Violence Services, Family Support Services and Project I ndcpendence [\Services designed to help women who arc domestic violence victims on their road to economic self sufficiency and independence\]. The YWCA has been serving Schenectady since 1888 and have helped many women who have needed assistance. They m)w have a universal exercise gym and benches to be ttsc~ by their clients. Because the YWCA no longer takes clothes, the City Mission on Clinton Street gained three large garbage bags of clothes tor sale in their shop and usc by their male boarders. Campus Operations re- moved the mattresses and the strong, able, and studious resi- Constitution Defended bY Alicia A. Oathout Resident Assistant; West College 1996 has seen a wide range of news, spanning from the OJ inter- view to the President ofthe United States testifying for sexual harass- ment. But above all this snow, Union College'sresidenthall gov- ernment will be unveiling it's newly ratified constitution in the next few weeks. This could be history in the making for Union College resident life. Advisors and representatives alik~ are look- ing forward to setting precedents with their established organiza- tions. Resident halls have had active hall governments in the past, but not with a structured constitution, and set goals aild missions. The Resident Life professional staff: lead by Dean Williams, encour- aged and guided some eager Resi- dent Assistants to motivate their residents to become more in- volved with activities on their floors, in the resident halls, and on campus. One RA from each resident hall area formed the con- stitutional committee while an- other assistant worked with in the resident haJJ to form and estab- lish hall governments that would be eager to set a foundation for all hall governments in the future. During the course offall term, the constitutional committee slaved over th_e formation and structure ofthe Resident Hall Council Con- stitution, much like our fore fathers did for our national Constitution, except without the :wigs. The com- mittee even traveled as fat up north.as Vermont to examine the constitutions of other hall gov- ernments. They returned to their native campus enthusiastic and eagcrtohegin theirwintcrtcnn with a new constitution. Patiently, the hall representatives and other resident assistants waited for the committee to com- plete their task. But the wait is over and the constitution will be ratified. by the committee on Tuesday, January 16 at high noon, and then presented and ratified by each hall government within the next few weeks. RAs want their residents active in the programs while Resident Life professional stafTwant students to embrace a sense of community in their hotne away from home. It is expected that the hall government will become a place in which each student can voice his opinion to the administration. The goals and expectations ofthe hall council are expressed in the mission statement which is similar to the national Constitution's preamble. \The purpose of the Residence Hall Council (RHC) is to promote leadership with the residence hall community. The RHC will provide social and educational program- ming and will serve as a liaison be- tween the Residence Life staff and the residence hall students.\ Without the structure and format of a constitution, the formed gov- ernments have already played an active role in promoting leadership and community in their resident halls. Richmond's hall council has been very successful in getting a snack machine and obtaining an all night study room. West, Fox, and Richmond councils threwa Hallow- een party, and are working very dili- gently to keep soap and paper tow.:. cis in their rest toon\s. The suc- cess of these hall governments ;js certain. to leave big :footprints for future councils to follow in. dents ofthc first Ooor(who were diligently st!Jdying for classes when their crazy RA came to beg for their assistance) hauled the rcs·t of the 'junk' out to the dumpster. In fact, by the time fi- nals arrived, the lock on the door had been changed and there was an order in for new lighting, fumi- ture. and a courtesy phone (to ensure the safety ofstudents us- ing the room late at night). The Hall Government and Residence Life are continuing to look into fumiturc for the room which will hopefully be operational by Win- term idtcnns. Once all tliat is settled, there will he a pizza/wings party to cel- ebrate the grand opening. The II all Government Reps and Kathy Walter would like to thank the Office of Residence Life, Campus Operations, Telecommunications and Security for all.ofthcir help and wisdom in making this all- night study room a reality. Our only hope is that rooms like this can be developed in all of the resi- dence halls, so that students can study in the comfmi and security ofthcir own buildings·- any time oftheday. by Andrew Coccia HeadRA Fox •:xciting things are brewing in Fox College th~se days. This term holds an array of activities brought by both the Residence Life staff and the newly empowered Hall Government Every resi- dent assistant has plans for his or her particular floor, and, in addition, the RA 's are organizing so.me building wide programs. This term we will finally have our long awaited ping pong tourna- ment (postponed last term due to inassive flooding). Half ofthe proceeds ofthis will go to a local charity. We are also hoping to get building wide participation in an educational program as we bring in several community organizations such as Big Brothers -Big Sisters, The Boy's and Girl's Club, and others. With some luck, bribery and a minimal amount of coercion, these programs should be quite successful. The residents of Fox also care about health matters. Soon Fox will reach a new level of hygiene never before dreamt of as the Hall Government finishes its final preparations to provide us with soap and paper towel dispensers in all the bathrooms. We one day hope to get bathroom trash cans to throw the paper towels in, but let us not move too fast. Winter term is the longest term. Each day is 10 hours long and each night is at least 20. Seniors stress about their theses and Freshmen stress about rush. In Fox, we all live together under one big leaky roof. And every year we muddle through. Let this year be different. If you want to break out and cut loose in a new and cool way, tell your hall rep. or your RA. Together, we can probably make it happen. \Fo.'C may flood ill the fall and spring. And the roof may leak il1 the wi11ter. But they shall not break 11s. \ A11o11ymous Fox Resident circa1968. BE LESS PRODUCTIVE AT THE OFFICE. c§ihe office has always been I are some simple ways you can brushing your teeth or a place to get al1ead. produce less waste at washing your &e, dorit let the Unfortunately, it's work. When also a place where a lot of natural only make the It takes 95% 1m \\rgJ to mam!fiutu\' prod11cts from rteydeJ matmals. resources start copies you to £ill behind. Take a look need. Use- both sides of the .nutrnd ilie next time you're at work. See how many lights are lefi on '·.... . •. /·~. ·····~· • when people \~- leave. See how paper when writing a mcrno . Turn off your light when you leave. Use a lower watt bulb in your lamps. Drink your Ust both sitks of the paJ\\ ch whm writing a mtmo. rnu paper out of is being wasted. How much mugs electricity is being used to instead of run computers that are left throwaway on. Look at how much rups. Set up a water is being wasted in the recycling bin for restrooms. And how much altuninwn cans solid waste is being thrown and one for bottles, out in the trash cans. And when you're in We bet its a lot. Now, here the bathroom IT'S A CONNECTED WORLD. DO YOUR SHARE. 111!1 A PubliC Service of ~, This Pubtrpalloo fuucet run. Remember, if we tL<e WWtt resources tndav, wr 'U Drink out of '\'W' truly !,.. d jnh itullaJ of throwavmy rups. ~~~~ 11 d \\\ one. FOR MORE INFORMATION ANTl TIPS CAU 1-HOO-MY-5HARE ' '

Residence Life The Concordiensis • January 18, 1996 \ Page 7 Richmond Loses a Gym and Gains a Study Room • .But They Shall Not Break Us In the beginning of Fall term, the haH government of Richmond asked the residents for some ad- vice on what the building needed. The top thing on almost every list - a quiet place to study. With winter closing in and differences with roommates increasing to- wards the middle of the term, the residents of Richmond wanted a place that did not have their bed nearby calling to them every ten 1ninutes, that was not far to walk, and that was quiet enough to get work done. An impossible dream - not quite. After some ques- tioning, the Hall Governmentrep- resentatives found that an old ex- ercise roo111 in the west end of Richmond was large enough to suit the building's purpose. I low- ever, the problem was that there was a large universal gym itij the center, about a dozen mattresses, three or four bags of lost and found clothes, and some other 'junk' that needed to be gotten rid of before the idea could be re- motely feasible. What do you do with all that stuffJ was the ques- tion that the representatives tack- led next. None ofthe fraternities on campus were able to house the by Kathy Walter Resilient A.fsistlmt Ricllmontl exercise equipment so the Hall Government was advised to do- nate it. It was decided that since Richmond is an all-female residence hall, the most logical place would be the YWCA J\s a local women's organization, the YWCA offers support to women in the areas of Domestic Violence Services, Family Support Services and Project I ndcpendence [\Services designed to help women who are domestic violence victims on their road to economic self sufficiency and imdeper~dence\]. The YWCA has been serviAg Schenectady since 18R8 and have helped many women who have needed assistance. They now have a universal exercise gym and benches to he used by their cl icnts. Because the YWCJ\ no longer takes clothes, the City Mission on Clinton Street gained three large garbage hags of clothes for sale in their shop and usc by their male boarders. Campus Operations re- moved the mattresses and the strong, able, and studious resi- Constitution Defended by Alicia A. Oathout Resident Assistant, West College 1996 has seen a wide range of news, spanning from the OJ inter- viewtothe Presidentofthe United States testifying for sexual harass- ment. But above all this snow, Union College's resident hall gov- ernment will be unveiling it's newly ratified constitution in the next few weeks. This could be history in the making for l Inion College resident life. Advisors and representatives alike are look- ing forward to setting precedents with their established organiza- tions Resident halls have had active hall governments in the past, but not with a structured constitution, and set goals and missions. The Resident Life professional staff. lead by Dean Williams, encour- aged and guided some eager Resi- dent Assistants to motivate their residents to become more in- volved with activities on their floors, in the resident halls, and on campus. One RA from each resident hall area fonned the con- stitutional committee while an- other assistant worked within the resident hall to form and estab- lish hall governments that would be eager to set a foundation for all hall governments in the future. During the cou~se offal! tem1, the constitutional committee slaved over the formation and structure of the Resident Hall Council Con- stitution, much I ike our fore fathers did for our national Constitution. except without the wigs. The com- mittee even traveled as far up north as Vermont to exam inc the constitutions of other hall gov- ernments. They returned to their native campus enthusiastic and eager to hegin their winter tcnn with a new constitution Patiently, the hall representatives and other resident assistants waited for the committee to com- plete their task. 13ut the wait is over and the constitution will be ratified. by the committee on Tuesday, .January 16 at high noon, and then presented and ratified by each hall government with in the next few weeks RAs wnnt their residents active in the programs whi lc Resident L i fc professional staff want students to emhracc a sense of community in their home away from home It is expected that the hall government will become a place in which each student can voice his opinion to the administration. The goals and expectations ofthe hall council are ex pressed in the rn iss ion statement which is similar to the national Constitution's pream blc. \The purpose of the Residence Hall Council (RHC) is to promote leadership with !he residence hall community. The RHC will provide social and educational program- ming and will serve as a I iaison be- tween the Residence Life staff and the residence hall students.\ Without the structure and format of a constitution, the formed gov- ernments have at ready played an active role in promoting leadership and community in their resident halls. Richmond's hall council has been very successful in getting a snack machine and obtaining an all night study room. West, Fox, and Richmond councils threw a Hallow- een party, and arc working very dil i- gently to keep soap and paper tow- els in their rest rooms. The suc- cess of these hall governments is certain to leave big footprints for future councils f(} follow in dents ofthc first floor (who were diligently studying for classes whera their crazy RA came to beg l·or their assistance) hauled the rest of the 'junk' Ol'lt to the dumpster. In fact, by the time fi- nals arrived, the lock on the door had been changed and there was an order in for new I ighting, furni- ture, and a courtesy phone (to ensure the safety of students us- ing the room late at night). The llall Government and Residence Life arc continuing to look into fumiturc for the room which will hopefully be operational by Win- ter midtenns. Once all that is settled. there will he u pizza/wings party to cel- chrate the grnnd opening. The II all Government Reps and Kathy Walter would like to thank the Onicc of Residence Li fc, Campus Operations, Telecommunications and Security for all of their help and wisdom in making this nil- night study room a reality Our only hope is that rooms like this can he developed in all of the resi- dence halls, so that students c:m study in the comfort and security ofthcir own buildings- any time of the day by Andrew Coccia Head RA Fox. Exciting things are brewing in Fox College these days. This term holds an array of activities brough.t by both the Residence Life staff and the newly empowered Hall Government Every resi- dent assista,nt has plans for his or her particular floor, and, in addition, the RA 's are organizing so.me building wide programs. This term we will finally have our long awaited ping pong tourna- ment (postponed last term due to massive flooding). Halfofthe proceeds of this will go to a local charity. We are also hoping to get building wide participation in an educational program as we bring in several community organizations such as Big Brothers -Big Sisters, The Boy's and Girl's Club, and others. With some luck, bribery and a minimal amount of coercion, these programs should be quite successful. The residents ofF ox also can about health matters. Soon Fox will reach a new level of hygiene never before dreamt of as the Hall Government finishes its final preparations to provide us with soap and paper towel dispensers in all the bathrooms. We one day hope to get bathroom trash cans to throw the paper towels in, but let us not meve too fast. Winter term is the lonf!est term. Each day is 10 hours long and each night is at least 20. Seniors stress about their theses and Freshmen stress about rush. In Fox, we all live together under one big leaky roof. And every year we muddle through. Let this year be different. If you want to break out and cut loose in a new and cool way, Ml your hall rep. oryourRA. Together, we can probably make it happen. \Fox mayfloml in the fall and spring. And the roof may leak in tlte willter. But tlrey shall not break us. \ Ammvmous FcJx Resident circa 1968. ·---- ~---------~-- ---------------------, BE LESS PRODUCTIVE AT THE OFFICE. §ir nffilT h,j!) ah~.ray~ bt·rn I .uT ... onw ~1mplr V..'<lY~ ynu L'Jn hnL-;hu1t! ~ntn· ttYth or J place w get dheJd. \\Ot,fung \·our t:,,-c, don't kt the \mrk. \\'hen ll'5~ nmTs st.ut ll rak£, l)~v·n im tmr~v l(' mmmtrullm rrcJutt• {wm rt'YVlftJ rt!dlt'flllf.s unl1 m.tkt· the .m.JunJ the nat Ul1ll' ~uu\rr • .u l'Jl'fl wlwn V..1ltlllb .1mnnn work. Sec how tnJil\' 'liiiTl off wmr hght when 1nu when people m your bmps. Dnnk your ~leave. See how ( lse bctb Hdts of the paptr whm wnw~ a mtmo mud> paper out of ,. bemg wasted. !low much mug.. electrtoty is being used to instead of run comput<\I'S that .m' left throwaway on. Look at how much cups. Set up a water ts bemg wasted in the recycling bin for restrooms. And how mudt alwnmum Gll1S sohd waste ts bemg thrown and one f<>r bottles. nut m the tr:l.<h ems. And when you're in IT'S A CONNECTED WORLD. DO YOUR SHARE. bu:ct n m. Rtnlt:mht:r. tf \\l' l>rmk l'llf ·t •·n 4 •• tnJ) l'lt· ,~ 1~ ·l~ IIJStfi.lil~f thrt'ltvaw.n , ltp~ well done. ft'R \1t1Rfl\frlR\.fHJ•l\ 1\fl I ur< uu 1 \\' 'fl 'lilR;-

OP/ED The Student Newspaper o/U11ion College Since 1877 Schenectady '.'i 0/t/est Newspaper 1-:van L. Morris, Ant·ltony C. LaVerchia F.lizaheth De-Koven NEWS EDITOR Larry Paska ARTS EDITOR Adam Richman LAYOUT EDITOR Rirk l.t>dl•rn Laurel Ru rna J>IJO I() EDITOR S!t>phanie Kuehn COPY F[)JTOR Eric Svenson .Jonathon Fader SPORTS fOJTORS Mat!ht>w Sandlt>r WORLD NEWS EDITOR Alexis Leist FFATtlRES EDITOR EDITOR Lisa Lemoi EXECUTIVE EDITOR David F.der Chris ·Richards I.IVING EDITORS Hennis Popeo SCIFNCE EI>ITOR Tatiana f'oJtevina COMPUTER MANAGER . lllrt'd Richman CARTOONIST Sro II Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR Rnquel Millman OPINIONS EDI'fOR A lex .1 ohnson II[ IS! NESS EDITOR PIIOTOGRAPIIFRS Scott I>ruckemilll'r, Laurie KirHhnt>r, Shaun· Paul 1\tanore. STAFF Omar Al-Khalidi, Pa.\·an Atluri, Emily Battis, Vinod l>au, .Jeff Druzba, Jon Gasthaltrr, Nalini Gupta. Mike Ledin~. Adrian MacLran,. Conor McKenzie Martin Metz, Dhavani Meduri, Raquel Millman, Pe-te Sorenson, Aileen Qui~ly, Kathy \\'alters The Concordie_n~is ·November 2,1995 ·Page 8 · · · EDlTORIAL · . Like, Whatever Girls' Rush: Super-Superfic~al! .! Uke vou know ... this sorority rush thing is like soooo upsetting. It seems hke rushmg a sorority on this campus is something akin to searching for the Wizard of Oz. You have all ofthe sororities on campus slouching he hind the curtain waiting for potential rushers to come along. These mshcrs, who arc only allowed into the sororities in guided tours, which app¥ently cost five dollars, arc expected to make a decision about the next three years of their lives based on small talk and the cute skits which the sisters then put ou . Women atllnion have a to- tally diflcrent and, dare we say, more superl1cial, rushing ex- perience than men do. Why is it that from the lirst d·ay of school guys can walk into any fraternity they want to and start meeting the brothers? Women on the other hand don't have the opportunity to get to truly know the sisters of the house they arc rushing, and it seems like the sisters don \t have much knowledge about the people they are se- lecting for admission into their nrganizations. The end result ofthis odd rush- . ing procedure is that the whole basis of choice. tor both the rush- ers and the rushees. becomes based on appearance. If people have only met for a maximum of ten minutes, it seems ludicrous to expect then to decide i fthcy want to be \sisters lorl'i fe.\ The process which men take part in is open to criticism. but it certainly seems more meaningful than a few minutes spent in a mom full of strangers. Because guys arc able to hm1g out in fra- ternities all year, they arc able to get a much better ide.a of how well they like the brothers of each ditlerent house. The brothers in turn also have a more fair way of gauging how they I ike the rushers . The system which Union women currently have to en- dure. produces inherently su- perficial results. ft seems that during the few minutes a fe- male rusher talks to each sis- ter in a sorority, she is under a tremendous amount of pres- sure. One can't help but won- der if the impressions made after a five-minute conversa- tion are based on the content of the conversation, or the ap- pearance and superficial qual i- ties of the rushers. · ·. · .. o· n ED --- · -- ·- -------·----------~--- -----~---~--- - -- --- -- -- -- - -----., ~ __ .....:_ -- --- ----------- - -~ --- --------------- - ·r;.- ' . ' . t. \0.\ Gt~LS •.. \fou'U& 60\f 'L LeJ!.\Jtl~L'f t1DU't5 'TO M.A'ICE 100 to.JEI>l l>i.'-'T f'I!.II:Nl:>S. \ REA~ 'I'? .s£r ~ Go!1. (no f'\~~). .' Singled Out In Class by Fei-ha Qian Staff Writer The general classroom at- mosphere at Union College can be challenging and in fact overwhelming for many stu- dents. In particular. for mi- nority students, Union can be a difficult atmosphere to feel totally comfortable to learn. The classes that deal mainly with science and engineering arc pretty straight forward courses with straight forward syllabi. For the classes that arc more I iberal arts concen- trated. many minority stu- dents may have feelings ofdis- placcment or discomfort Being the only, or one of a few minority students in a class can lead to those unwanted feelings, but to he singled out in the class can cause more uneasiness. Some examples of classes in the liberal arts arc history, literature, and courses that involve discussions ofva- rieties of cultures such as Freshmen Preceptorial. For any student to he put on the spot in a class can he a nerve racking experience. Many students arc able to handle the pressure of speak- ing in a classroom. but who knows how many students arc the opposite? When the course's discussion is about an international culture and if there is only one Asian or one African American in the class, the minority .student has a greater chance of being called on during the discussion. This can he a positive experience for the minority student or it can be a negative one. When the student feels that he is be- ing singled out because the pro- fessor thinks that the minority student can bring personal in- sights on the culture into the dis- cussion, the student rnight feel that he is obligated to contrib- ute to the class discussion. The minority student might not take any offense toward the professor because that particu- lar Asian student might know much ahout Asian Clllturc and he wi II ing to teach others when- ever possible. I commend any person who is like the one just described because part of edu- cation is to learn from other peers. The part that is disturb- ing is that some professors in- sensitively assume that a minor- ity student must know more about their own culture than the general population of the class. When the professor assumes in cases such as this. the profes- sor can put a student in an awk- ward situation. If the student is unable to contribute to the discussion from a personal level, the student might feel embarrassed or shamed that he did not have a correct answer fi.H something supposedly so obvious to him. A specific example might be when the professor calls on a Chinese student to talk about Chinese culture, hut this time the Chinese student does not know about the culture. The problem is that the professor singled out the student and called on him without even hav- ing the student raise his hand to participate. The problem here is again that the .professor as- sumed that the student knew and wat; willing to speak out loud to the rest of the class. What if the Chinese student just did not want to speak out on this sensi- tive topic for reasons only known to him? I give a great deal of credit to professors who stand in front of the class with an average of 20 or 30 different personalities looking straight back at the pro- lessor. I do sincerely believe that most of the professors at Union College are honest, unbiased, and open-minded individuals. There are just times where pro- fessors accidentally phrase their questions and comments in cer- tain ways that can offend a stu- dent without knowing it. Most ofthe incidents are purely acci- dental because most professors are not out to insult or hurt student's feelings. There are many solutions for professors to still have peer - to - peer learning atmosphere and at the same time notto have any student to feel singled out in a classroom. One solution can be to have the professor ask a minority student privately if the student would mind giving per- sonal insights about the culture in the next class lecture. In this way the student can feel that the professor is sensitive to the student's needs just for having the courtesy of asking first. Another solution can be to have the professor just go on with the lecture without any special treat• ment to the minority student. If during the lecture, the student is willing to participate on his own free will, great. If the stu- dent does not, then nothing should be done to have the stu- dent participate. I Af stress 'f. makil 1 ands1 out. ' 'leave the s~ andtl Gpa, sick. intob We Once wepr gestt iteT\ retun We a. scatte east c

i OP/ED W.:qe Oiontoroiensis -- ---- ------------------ Tlte Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Scllenectady's Oldest Newspaper E'l.an L. Morris, Anthony C. LaVecrhia F.liza·beth Drk:oven NFWS FDI\TOR Larr~ Paska AR-1 S FDITOR Ad am Rirhman 1-\YOI'I II>IJOR Rick Lederrr Laurt\' Ru rna I' I I 0 I 0 H J I I I 1 R Stt>phanie Kuehn <OPY FIJI TOR Fnr s, rnson Jonathon Fader ~l'<lR IS Filii CJRS '\latthew Sandler WI JRI lJ '\;f WS I Dll OR .\le11~ Lei~t II \ITRI·S I·()IIOR I'D I TOR Lisa Lrmoi I XFCliTI\'f' EDITOR David F.drr Chris Richards I 1\'1 N<; I'D !TORS [)r nnis Popeo <;('fl NCT f'J)ITOR I'atiana ('ogl'vinn 1 11!\11'1 !I FR 1\..11\NACiFR .l:tred Richman I ··\R I OONIS r Smtt Srullion I \I l 'I I Y .\D\'ISOR H:1qurl \tillman llPI'\111'\S 1'11ITOR -\lex .Johnson Ill SI:'>.IS'oi(}(IOR l'll<liO<iR-\1'111 RS Srntt lhurkrmilll•r, Laurie h:indu1rr. Shaun- Paul ~1anorr. ! 'il·\1·1 Omar Al-h:halidi, P:nan Alluri, Fmil} llaui~. \'inod l)asa .. Jeff ! Druzha, .Jon (;asthaltC'r, :'llalin• (;upta. :\like Leding, Adrian MacLean, ll Conor 1\tcl~t'IIZII\ :\1artin Mt>tz, Rhavani :\leduri. Raquel Millman, Pete Sort'mon, Ailren Quigly. Kathy Walft'r~ -------- - ------ ----------- -- ~ r• 0 ,c' 6• .. L.S ~'\JE 6o\'T '2.. LEI ~'-'II.J:.I.'I ~lt5 'TO 1'\ ... t::l: too IJl;.\J,) \i!ie.~T ~11.\'l':t.JbS. \ REAtl'l ~ SET ~ Go!f (no p<c.~). ... '.,J; ....... ~- -------- -~-- ------- \---- _________ \ ______ _ The Concordie_nsis ·November 2, 1995 ·Page 8 . . - ' .·· ······ ·. EDITORIAL · · - ·-· · - ' - ' ' . ' : •.'. \ .\\ . . . . ' - - . Like, Whatever Girls' Rush: Super-Superfic~al! .! Uke vou know ... this sorority rush thing is like soooo upsetting. It seems like rushmg a sororit)' on this campus is something akin to searching for the Wi7_ard of Oz. You have all ofthe sororiti:cs on campus slouching hchind the curtain waiting for potential rushers to come along. These mshcrs, who arc only allowed into the sororities in guided tours, which app~ently cost five dollars, arc expected to make a det:is ion about the ncx t three years or their lives hased on small talk and the cute skits which the sisters then put on . Women at Union have a to- tally Jitlerent and, dare we say, more superficial, rushing ex- perience than men do. Why is it that from the lirst day of school guys can walk into any rraternity they want to and start meeting the brothers'? Women on the other hand dnn\t have the opportunity to g.et to truly know the sisters u r the house they arc rush in g.. and it seems like the sisters Jon 't have much knowledge about the people they arc se- lecting for admission into their ----========================================= organizations. The end result of this odd rush- ing procedure is that the whole basis of choice. f(H both the rush- ers and the rushees, becomes based on appearance. If people have only met for a maximum of ten minutes. it seems ludicrous to expect then to decide if they want to be \sisters f(.Jr life.\ The prot:css whkh men take part in is open to criticism. hut it certainly seems more meaningful than a few minutes spent in a room full of strangers. Because guys arc able to hang out in fra- ternities all year, they arc able to get a much better idea of how well they like the brothers ofeach different house. The brothers in turn also have a more fair way of gauging how they like the rushers. The system which Union women currently have to en- dure produces inherently su- perfici at results. It seems that during the few minutes a fe- male rusher talks to each sis- ter in a sorority, she is under a tremendous amount of pres- sure. One can't help but won- der if the in1pressions made after a five-minute conversa- tion are based on the content ofthc conversation, or the ap- pearance and superficial quali- ties of the rushers. Singled Out In Class by Fei-ha Qian Staff Writer ------------- The general classroom at- mosphere at Union College can be challenging and in fact overwhelming for many stu- dents. In particular. for mi- nority students, Union can be a diflicult atmosphere to feel totally comfortable to learn The dasses that deal mainly '' ith science and engineering arc pretty straight forward cpurscs with straight forward syllabi. For the t:lasses that arc more I i hera I arts concen- trated. many minority stu- dents mav have feelings ofdis- placemcnt or discomfort. Being the only, or one of a few minority students in a class can lead to those unwanted feelings. hut to he singled out _ _J in the class can cause rnorc uneasiness. Some examples of classes in the liberal arts arc history. I iterature. and courses that involve discussions ofva- rieties of cultures such as Freshmen PreceptoriaL For any student to he put on the spot in a class can he a nerve racking experience Many students arc able to handle the pressure ofspcak- ing in a classroom. but who knows how many students arc the opposite 0 When the course's discussion is about an international culture and if there is only one Asian or nne African American in the class. the minority student has a greater chance of being called nn during the discussion. This can he a positive experience for the minority student or it can he a negative one. When the student feels that he is be- ing singled out because the pro- fessor thinks that the minority student can bring personal in- sights on the culture into the dis- cussion. the student might feel that he is obi igated to contri b- ute to the class discussion. The minority student might not take any offcmc toward the professor because that particu- lar Asian student might know much ahnut /\sian culture and he\\ iII ing to teach nthers when· ever possihlc. I commend any person who is like the one just described because part of edu- cation is tn learn from 0ther peers. The part that is disturb- ing is that some professors in- sensitively assume that a minor- ity student must know more about their O\Vn culture than the general population of the class. When the professor assumes in cases such as this. the profes- sor can put a student in an awk- ward situation. If the student is unable to contribute to the discussion from a personal level, the student might feel embarrassed or shamed that he tlid not have a correct answer for something supposedly so obvious to him. A specific example might be when the professor calls on a Chinese student to talk about Chinese culture. hut this time the Chinese student docs not know about the culture. The prohlcm is that the professor singled out the student and called on him without even hav- ing the student raise his hand to participate. The problem here is again that the professor as- sumed that the student knew and was willing to speak out loud to the rest of the class. What if the Chinese student just did not want to speak out on this sensi- tive topic for reasons only known to him? I give a great deal of credit to professors who stand in front of the class with an average of 20 or 30 different personalities looking straight back at the pro- fessor. I do sincerely believe that most of the professors at Union College are honest, unbiased, and open-minded individuals. There arc just times where pro- fessors accidentally phrase their questions and comments in cer- tain ways that can offend a stu- dent without knowing it. Most of the incidents are purely acci- dental because most professors arc not out to insult or hurt student's feelings . There are many solutions for professors to still have peer - to - peer learning atmosphere and at the same time not to have any student to feel singled out in a class room. One solution can be to have the professor ask a minority student privately ifthe student would mind giving per- sonal insights about the culture in the next class lecture. In this way the student can feel that the professor is sensitive to the student's needs just for having the courtesy of asking first. Another solution can be to have the professor just go on with the lecture without any special treat- ment to the minority student. If during the lecture, the student is willing to participate on his own free will. great. If the stu- dent does not, then nothing should be done to have the stu- dent participate. AI stres~ m~ki ands out. leav~ the S< and t Gpa, sick. I into I I w~ I Onct: I wep1 ' I I gest 1 I iteT, retur \ We a I scattc east c I I I I I l l l

•'I\ ~.., \' ~ \\': ~. \' a- ('. \ ... 11 r\\\. i'I\'<TT- ljjl ~~~ ~ ::~ ~ • ·~y~, · to\.f\ri,\\A~~\ .. \' .. !~~ ... ~ .. ~·~· .. 11\ .... , .. ~ 1 ~ ... ,~,_ ..... ~ ..... • :4.r;.. 1 Page ·9 ·.January 18, 1995 · '<ll:lye aton~orbicttsis OPtED ' . ' · ().P .. ED -- · -- - -· --· . . . ~ ' . ' ~ . The Reality of Winter Break by Raquel Millman Opinions Editor After ten weeks of adjusting, growing, stressing, creating a whole new work ethic, making new friends, building a new home, and starting a whole new life, we are forced out. We take our tests and one by one we leave. Our good-byes are stuttered due to the sandbags of stress weighing us down and three letters taunting us in our heads Gpa, GPa, GPA. We look tired. We look sick. We throw our once neat necessities into bags and we leave ready to hibernate. We sleep and then we sleep some more. Once we have woken from the long sleep we prepare for the long haul. After we di- gest the turkey and catch up on our favor- ite TV shows and soap operas, our families return to the every day life of busyness. We are alone. Our newfound friends are scattered around the nation (or at least the east coast) and our high school compan- ions are even farther. The Union student is not one to lie around for weeks on end. They do not let the world swallow them only to wake up seven weeks later to find that they have moved to the bottom ofthe bell jar. They panic. They work. They hate it. They are bored. Days go by that seem like weeks. Weeks go by that seem like months. And when a month finally has passed. an eternity has gone by. I lowever, as we were told, there is a light at the end of the proverbial tunnel. The light for the Union College student is be- ing rescued by the semester break. Our friends return and home feels like home again. Finally after the endless time alone, we can spend a whole two weeks with our friends whom we wont sec for another six months. Docs any ofthis make sense to you? Why is it that tradition stands over real- ity? The reality of this break is that it is not relaxing; it is boring. It's not as though we even feel compensated in the end. Remem- ber, we will not resume a normal lite with our friends from childhood as they all will. Rather, we willjttst be taking midterms at that point. Perhaps that was the original goal of the way our tenns were designed. Perhaps the founding fathers of this sys- tem did not want the Union studentto have a life outside this institution. That seems to be a logical answer considering when it is deemed that we have class and when it is deemed that we don't. While the time from Thanksgiving to Christmas seems to be deserving of a break, National holidays such as Martin Luther KingDay and Meinorial Day are not worth taking time out of our schedules to reflect for one day. As if it weren't appall- ing enough to ignore the national day re- served to celebrate the tremendous clmngcs brought about by a man so kind that an entire nation looks to him as a hero, we don't even stop the all-mighty Union campus for a brief silence to remember. He saved us from the hatred so often un- leashed in the world. How sad it is that even while we have watched acts ofhatred all overtheworldrepeatedly, wedon'tstop for a moment to look in awe at a man who did something. We ignore someone who really did make a difference so that we may go on doing the inconsequential \impor- tant\ things that we are in such a rush to do_ While tangibly we see plaques in the Old Chapel honoring the men from Union who gave their! ives for our nation, in real- ity~ we don't honor them. Memorial Day is not enough to pause the Union camp~:~s. So I ask you, what is the point of our break? After close to seven meaningless weeks at ho1ne, we come back to find the excuse for rushing right through meaning- ful days, \There isn't enough time\. It is time for the ideas of the founding fathers to be rethought by some sons, and this time, daughters too. Snow and Ice Create Disaster for Unprepared Campus! ---------------------------- By Tony La Vccchia Co-Editor-in-Cirief Last night I witnessed a strange and discomfcrting event. I watched as a Papa Cicco's delivery person was almost killed by snow as he stood outside my donn counting the money I had just given him. The snow had fall.cn from the roof of one of our finely designed Union College structures. This is not the first inconvenient or otherwise bla- tantly dangerous incident that I have seen unattended ice or snow cause on our well- maintained campus. Speaking of inconvenience, it is totally ridiculous that the main entrance to the Col- lege Center has been closed for as long as it has been. I have noticed the seven foot long icicles hanging offofthe roof, but honestly, how hard could it be for the college to find some way to permanently fix the icicle problem. I have personally been into the front entrances of thousands of other buildings located in the snow belt. The maintenance crews of those buildings seem to have figured something out. why can't we? The time and money the college spent getting those pretty little signs made up warning about the ice and snow danger should have been devoted to solving the problem. Anyway, as I slide my way across the ice from one dangerous building to another closed one, I wonder sometimes, why can't a college that has been located in the snow belt for two-hundred years figure out a way to handle snow and ice? What is Dating? by Henrik Haeckel contrih11ting writer In light ofthe recent debate over the lack of dating at Union I think it is only fair that we define dating. Is dating going to a special place with a significant other? Is dating hcing involved with another person over an extended period of time? Or is dating just going out with a friend of the opposite sex and et~oying their company in a nonsexual manner? The answer to this question would resolve this important issue. There are a lot of individuals on this CL\mpus who arc involved in long tenn relationships, although · perhaps not v.:ith another Union Student Yet, this observation seems to side step the issue The majority of students seem unable to ask one another to go out. Going out meaning somewhere other than a party- for once we arrive at parties, we tend to be far to inebriated to build any sort of substantial relationship. This seems to be problem that so many students bemoan Endless cries of I can't find a boyfriend or I can't find a girlfriend resound from the College Center. Well, it is my opinion that we all bring this upon ourselves in two simple ways. One, most students tend to place their interest in people who are not interested in them. How can one build a healthy relationship ifthey arc looking for people who do not care . about them? Secondly, the place where people tend to try to pick up these potential girlfriends or boyfriends is in a loud, dirty, drunken bar room. This is not the place to meet anyone that you arc seriously interested in. Parties are lot offun, and sometimes so is hooking up, but it is naive to believe that any sort of drunken behavior one night will build into a serious relatio11Ship. In the end. what I am saying, is look to yourselves if you have a problem with the lack of Union relationships. Instead of placing your interest in that person that you cannot have or hooking up drunk some night, ask someone out. What is the worst thing that can happen? It probably is not arty worse than what will happen to you anyway.

.. . ~ \' ,. • I.,_ '• .. ' Page 9 · January 18, 1995 · 'ffilyc <1Inu.cnrhiensis OPIED The Reality of Winter Break by Raquel Millman Opinions Editor After ten weeks of adjusting, growing, stressing, creating a whole new work ethic, making new friends, building a new home, and starting a whole new I ife, we are forced out. We take our tests and one by one we leave. Our good-byes are stuttered due to the saNdbags of stress weighing us down and three letters taunting us in our heads Gpa, GPa, GPA. We look tired. We look sick. We throw our once neat necessities into bags and we leave ready to hibernate. We sleep and then we sleep some more. Once we have woken from the long sleep we prepare for the long haul. Afler we cli- gest the turkey and catch up on our favor- ite TV shows and soap operas, our fmn ilies return to the every day life of busyness. We are alone. Our newfound friends arc scattered around the nation (or at least the east coast) and our high school compan- ions are even farther. The Union student is not one to lie around for weeks on end They do not let the world swallow them only to wake up seven weeks later to find that they have moved to the bottom of the bell _jar. They panic. They work. They hate it. They arc bored. Days go by that seem like weeks. Weeks go by that seem like months. And when a month finally has passed, an etemi·ty has gone by However, as we were told, there is a light at the end of the proverbial tunnel. The light for the Union College student is be- ing rescued by the semester break. Our friends return and home feels I ike home again. Finally after the endless ti rne alone, we can spend a whole two weeks with our friends whom we wont sec for another six months. Docs any of this make sense to you'' Why is it that tradition stands over real- ity\ The reality ofthis break is that it is not relaxing; it is boring. It's not as though we ·The · a term by the.stud~nts ofHni().a:t:;~~Ue~~~·;lt i:sfunded in part by the Student Activiti,es Fee~· The Cancordiensis, copyright 1996, all rights reserved. Box 2577; College Center~ U.11ion Colleie~ .Schene~Jady,. New York 12308. T~lephot1te·.:(5l8}388;.<61S$ .. ·TheCtxttcordiensis is printed 11:9 World Mettf~· '; · · · i. :Avenue Albany NY .lZl~$~·\ttle ..... · .. . .· .. ;:·:~~~ttb~~ftitb~:)ntercoH~giat; . ~IJ:JJe~:~llf~~~s;SerVice, & J(lng .. ···. 8.·.··.· .. ub.·; m .. : i~.· .. • ... '·S· .. ···.··.··.r&··. · .. ·.n. ·s·······.·.· :.· .. ·.A·· .. <.·I.·:t.·· .. ·. a.· .. 'tm.· .. :.·.··~.·.,.· ... •.·• .. ·.; ...... s.to. ·ns ... ·.·•.·.· a; .. :r,i:;lo. ·. du.· · .. e· ... t. ke·.· ~.~.·on. d. •\+'. ·y· · . . . . . ~ J'l' l'V·l ~ ···· l)etbre ptlt:dic;attdrf~t·~pf1isiif>mftt~9 otr~.ither. JM:aciqtosh : .. ~~~·~~·········~,~9~~: even feel compensated in the end. Rem em- her, we will not resume a normal life with our friends from childhood as they aU will Rather, we will just be taking midterms at that point Perhaps that was the original goal of the way our terms were designed. Perhaps the founding fathers of this sys- tem did not want the Union student to have a life outside this institution. That seems to be a logical answer considering when it is deetl!ed that we have class and when it is deemed that we don't Whi·le the time from Thanksgiving to Christlinas seems to he deserving of a break, National holidays such as Martin Luther King Day and Memorial Day arc not worth taking time out of our schedules to reflect for one day. As if it weren't appall- ing enough to ignore the national day re- served to celebrate the tremendous changes brought ahout hy a man so kind that an entire nation looks to him as a hero, we don't even stop the all-mighty Union campus for a brief silence to remember. He saved us from the hatred so often un- leashed in the world. How sad it is that even while we have watched acts of hatred all over the world repeatedly, we don't stop for a moment to look in awe at a man who did something. We ignore someone who really did make a difference so that we may go on doing the inconsequential \impor- tant\ things that we are in such a rush to do While tangibly we see plaques in the Old Chapel honoring the men from Union who gave their I i ves for our nation, in real- ity, we don't honor them. Memorial Day is not enough to pause the Union campus. So I ask you, what is the point of our break? After close to seven meaningless weeks at home, we come back to find the excuse for rushing right through meaning- ful days, \There isn't enough time\ It is time for the ideas of the founding fathers to be rethought by some sons, and this time, daughters too. Snow and Ice Create Disaster for Unprepared Campus! . -··----·--------- By Tony LaVecchia Co-Editor-in-Chief I ,ast night I witnessed a strange and discomfcrting event I watched as a Papa Cicco's delivery person was almost killed by snow as he stood outside my dorm counting the money I had just given him The snow had fallen from the roof of one of our finely designed llnion College structures This is not the first inconvenient or otherwise bla- tantly dangerous incident that I have seen unattended icc or snow cause on our well- maintained campus Speaking of inconvenience, it is totally ridiculous that the main entrance to the Col- lege Center has been closed for as long as it has been. I have noticed the seven foot long icicles hanging off of the roof. hut honestly, how hard could it be for the college to find some way to permanently fix the icicle problem I have personally been into the front entrances of thousands of other huilding.s located in the snow belt The maintenance crews of those buildings seem to have figured something out, why can't we? The time and money the college spent getting those pretty I ittle signs made up warning about the icc and snow danger should have been devoted to solving the problem. Anyway. as I slide my way across the icc from one dangerous building to another closed one, I wonder sometimes, why can't a college that has been located in the snow hclt for two-hundred years figure out a way to handle snow and ice? What is Dating? by llenrik Haeckel contrihuti11g writer In light of the recent de hate over the lack of dating at Union I think it is only fair that we define dating Is dating going to a special place with a significant other') Is dating heing involved with another person over an extended period of time.., Or IS dating just I going o.ut \vith a friend of the opposite sex and en.Joying their company in a nonsexual.! manner) . The anS\\Cr to this lJUcstion would resolve th1s 1mportant issue Thc~c arc a lot ot i IIIHllvlduals nn tlliS ~:am pus\\ h\l,'trc Ill\ lll.\t:U 111 long tern~ rclat10nsh1ps, although 1 I perhaps_nnt '' 1th annth_er I 1 111011 Stu~knt 1l'!, th1s uhscrvatwn seems to s1dc sll:p th:: I l~st~e. I he maronty of students seem unahlc to ask m_1c another to g.o out l (,olng out mcanmgsom.ewhcre othl:.'r than a rart\ - lor once we arnve at p.ut1cs, \\C 1 tend tn he far to mehnated to huiiJ am Sllrt of substantial relationship This seems to he prohlctn that so many students hemoan Endless cncs of I can't lind a boyfncnd or . I can't li~d. a girlfri~n.d resound from _the College Center . . I Well, 1t 1s my op1mon that we all hnng th1.s upon ourselves m two stmple ways One., most students tend to place thetr mtcrcst tn people who arc not mtercsted Ill them !low can one huild a healthy relationship i fthey arc looking fi..)r people'\ ho do not can: I ahout them.., Second! y. the place \\ hc~c people tend to try to piCk up these potcnt1JI . 1 g1rlfncnds or hoyfnends 1s 111 a loud, d1rty. J~nkcn bar room f~1.S 1s not the place 1t1 I meet anyone that you are sc~tously m~crcstcd 111 Parties arc lot of fun, and sometimes I so1s honkmg up .. hut 1t 1s na1vc to hell eve that any sort of drunken behavtnr one ntght 1 will huild into a serious relationship In the end. what I am saying, is look to yourselves if you have a problem with the lack of Union relationships Instead of placing your interest in that person that you cannot have or hooking up drunk some night, ask someone out. What is the worst thing that can happen\ It prohahly is not any worse than what will happen to you anyway.

Arts & Entertainment In Concert: Steve Kenyon Quartet & Union College Jazz Ensemble .lar.z .m .. r:oplwnist Stet•e Kenyon (photo: Dept. r~f Performin~o: Art.\) Courtesy oftlte Dept.., of Performing Arts l11e Union College Jazz Ensemble, under the direction of Professor Tim Olsen, will perform on llmrsday, January 25, 1996, at .8:00..pm in the Yulman l11eater. Special guests The Steve Kenyon Quartet will also perfonn. 1l1is concert is free· and open to the public. l11e Steve Kenyon Quartet, based in New York City. perfonns a variety of contemporary jazz styles, incorporating originals as·well as jazz classics. Tenor saxophonist and composer Steve Kenyon plays on Broadway and is an active studio musician, educator, and clinician. He has perfonned with such artists as Blood, Sweat, and Tears, the Four Freshmen, Aretha Franklin, and the New York City Ballet. l11e Union College Jazz Ensemble is made up of Union College students as well as members of the Schenectady Community. ·n1c concert will feature standards by such jazz greats as Duke Ellington. Hoagy Cannichael, and Thad Jones, as well as original arrangements and works by Tim Olsen. Pianist and trumpet-player Olsen joined the Union College faculty as Visiting Assistant Professor of Perfonning Arts in September 1994, and is active as composer, perfonner. and educator. For more it?formation, please call the l Inion ( 'ofle!!,e /)epartmenl of Perform inK Arts at (51 H) J~H-65-15. The Concordiensis • January 18, 1996 • Page 10 The. Screening Room by Law1·encePaska,Arts Editor ' ' 12 Monkeys: A Major Cast Enhances Terry Gilliam's Off-Beat Film \/2 Monkey.\·. \ SllwriiiK Jlnw! Willis, Madeleine Stowe, Urad /'iff, ( .'hristopher Plummer. J)irected by Terry Gilliam. i<ated R. r lniversal PiL'Iures. Rati11K: *\\*112 (out £?{four) Fans ofTctry Gilliam, fonnerly of the wacky and wicked group knowtl as Monty Python, love his fi.lms forheing offbeat and highly original. His latest work, J 2 Mon- key.\', expands on the territories he charted in Hnd/ and nu> Advell- ture.\' of Haron Mundwusen, cre- <lting one of the most dark and thm1ght-provoking time-travel • stones yet. Inspired by the short French fi;lm /,a .Jelle, 12 .Monkeys opens in a prison facility beneath the wastelands of downtown Phila- delphia. circa 20::15. Five billion pcnplc were wiped nut during a plague that struck the world in 1997, and Willis, as inmate James Cole, is selected to travel back in time and discover the cause of the virus, and how it can possibly be stopped in the future. His desti- n<ltion isl996, just before the vi- ms was tmleashed. It is believed that a radical group called \The Anny of the 12 Monkeys'' was re- sponsible for the disaster. and Cole joumcysthrough time to dis- cover how to cure the virus in the future. Of course, time travel is imper- fect. and Cole darts through time, first landing in 1990 into a mental institution, where he meets Brad Pitt. now beginning to show his stuff as a serious actor. ·He is a delight to watch as an inmate, al- though at times his performance seems to cry, \Look at me! How am I doing?\ He desperately wants to steal the spotlight from Willis, and he succeeds. Cole then darts back to the \fu- ture.\ and then into 1996, where a lovely psychologist (Stowe) is forced to travel with him in search of the virus. While at first she disbelieves him, she comes to be fascinated with Cole's pursuit. Christopher Plummer is on hand as a muted \had guy,\ testing drugs on animals and adding the film's only real untouched sub- plot. Any films .involving time travel are risky, but Gilliam ignores the possibilities and goes straight for the punch. and his results work. The time travel device itself looks cmdc. a symhol of the degmding society beneath the city. Gilliam's photography (including images Cole sees in his dreams but can- not place in his past) confuse at first, but once the story progresses, everything falls into place. The film is also successful be- cause of Willis. When he plays characters trapped in hopeless situations, confused and at odds with reality, Willis is a tremendous actor. His role in I 2 Monkeys is quite similar to his John McClane in the /)ie Hard trilogy; his blank stare, suggesting a mind fhriously calculating the possibilities, re- minds the audience just how con- fused this soul is. bouncing through time. In the end, his per- fonnance is effective because the viewer finds reality quite distorted as well. Of course, as in all futuristic settings, the people and the places are grim, ugly, and skel- etons of the past. TI1e scientists sending Cole on his journey want to cure the vints, yet they never consider time travel away to pre- vent the virus from spreading in the first place. This is an interest- ing plot detail: are these scientists trying to mle what's left of the world? What would they lose by stopping the vims totally? Cole never seems to notice this, yet it haunts the story. The end of civi- lization is not the question, and it is always assumed that humanity will stay dead. I 2 Monkeys certainly is not for everyone, but for those who love films with more twists and turns than a roller coaster, and could fol- low recent films like The Usual Suspects, this one will entertain and cause one to ponder many questions about their own reali- ties. Be prepared to thi1!k about this one well after the end credits have rolled. ·.Also Recommended: With Bmce Willis - Die Hard(***l/2), Die Hard 2 (***) With Madeleine Stowe- The J.ast of the Mohicans(***) With Brad Pitt- A River R11ns 71mmgh It (* **l/2), Seven (* *'*) HAROLD LOHNER REC~ENT PRINTS ANID IJRA:WINGS ~ ' ' . ' . JANUARY 29- MARCH I, I996 ARTIST'S RECEPTION TUESDAY, JANUARY 30, 1996, 4-6 PM UNION COLLEGE ARTS ATRIUM OPEN DAILY 9AM-6PM Harold Lohner, untitled, 1995 Write for Arts & Entertainme-nt!!! ·call Larry at X6155 ...... ·.

Arts& Entertainment Film Forum: The Winter of Discontent by RobertRoy Atts Columnist Hi, my name is Robert Roy, and I am a sophomore who just trans- ferredhere from New York Univer- sity. I decided to move upstate because I heard that Union has an amazing film studies program, and I got tired of living in a big, huge city with a world-famous school of the arts. I want to be a fam_ous director like Scorsese, Tarantino, and that guy who di- rects all those /,eprechaun mov- ies. I also lu~ard that Schenectady has this great place called \Howler's and since I eat wings morning, noon. and night. it was only fitting I live close to a place that has extra hot sauce and driv- ers you don't have to tip. Anyway, I met the Concordy's film critic, Lany, last week, and he invited me to write a film column on movies I've seen on video dur- ing the week to get a fresh per- spective on the home entertain- ment industry. I Ie told me to keep away from theaters- that's his ter- ritory. Since I saw a lot of Union students at the local Blockbuster last weekend renting that R-rated copy of .)'hollxirls, I figured that people would like to find out what's good on video and not shell out the $1 mi Ilion it costs to see a flop like .Judge Dreddin the- aters when they can laugh at Stallone in the privacy of their own rooms. Well, what did I see while I was. packing my bags and moving to Schenectady? I remember a fiiend and I rented Free Wil~v 2: 111e Ad- l'('nlure Home one night to cure those mid-December blues. Ac- tually, we watched it in late No- vember, but we fi&rured we'd be blue in mid-December, so it seemed an appropriate choice. Ai1yway, in this movie, Willy is endangered by an oil tanker which spilled black, gooey oil everywhere. l11e hero, Jason James Richter, also contends with a brother he never knew existed and his first kiss. ll1e movie is so colorful and beau- tifully-fihned that l wanted to cut evety shot out of the film and frame it on the wall. Of course, I would remove all the scenes with Michael Madsen in them, who plays the boy'sfosterfather. Hon- estly, he is the dumbest man I have ever seen on screen- kind oflike a clear-speaking Stallone. When his son asks for advice on \the birds and the bees,\ he tells him to be careful, but you know what he real'ly wants to ask is \was she good iu bed? Do you need money to cover the abortion?\ And what kindofname is Madsen, anyway? It's sounds like how a dumb per- son would pronounce Madison. as in James Madison. l11at' s it! This artor is a descendant of James Madison, only he was cut off from the family. Hereally plays a thug more convincingly in Res- cn·oir Doxs. In fact, I think that Free Wil~v 2 would have been more realistic and funny if Madsen tied the oil rig captain to a chair in an abandoned warehouse and cut off his ear. as punishment for threatening the ecology. Of course, the film might get a PG-13 rating ifthis happened, but at least kids would leam that drinking and piloting an oil rig don't mix. Sony, Larry, but I have to tell ev- eiyone about my experience with the new film. ( 'asino, starring Robert De Niro and Joe Pesci. In this movie, Pesci again plays the foul-mouthed sideman to De Niro's \boss just like they did in UoodFe/las. Pesci speaks his own offshoot of the English lan- guage in the film, called Pescian: basica11y, this language consists of utilizing the English swear- word f*** as the subject, predi- cate, a11d verb in every sentence. He does a rem ark able job ofbting- in!! this J::mguage to the screen. English-Pescian dictionaries are now in stores, but they're pretty thin because the Pescian equiva- lent for any English word always begins with an F and ends with a K, although adverbs still utilize the -ing ending. Schools 11ationwide might want to offer this language as a course of study, since it is easy to lea111, and is the unofficial second language of the United States. in the movie, Pesci goes around hurting people in brutal ways whenever they annoy him. Con- sidering that characters such as his are very popular with Ameri- can culture. I decided to be just like Joe Pesci when I left the the- ater. I walked up to the conces- sion stand and asked for an extra- large popcom, and to splurge I or- dered the popcom with an extra portion ofbutter. When the pim- ply-faced teen behind the counter told me they didn't have real but- ter, but only butter-flavored top- ping, I began to insult him in Pescian, at which the boy got re- ally offended. I was glad, though, that he could understau..1 a for- eign language, but it stilJ...didn 't save him, in my view. I took the napkin holder on the counter and, in true Pesci style. I beat him senseless with it until he lay on the floor, covered in blood and butter-flavored topping. In the movie. people would run from Pesci in fear after he'd done such a crime. In reality, however, two policemen came and dragged me to the 39th Precinct, where I was just released for good behavior in time to spend Christmas home. . Pesci 's a hero to audiences ev- erywhere, but an .honest guy like me gets arrested for imitating him. I don't get it. I think Michael Madsen. Pierce Brosnan, and Joe Pcsci should get together and run for Congres~. Then they would take people 'who patronize mov- ies like Look Who's Talkinx Now! and put their heads through a vice, like Pesci did to someone in Ca.•;ino. You know, Bob Dole might get more respect if he did that to everyone who went and saw Money 7rainthis winter- and liked it! The Concordiensis • January 18, 1996 • Page 11 New Release: (]3ed o Mary Mtuart Masterson a11d Cllristian Slater star in \Bed of Roses\ opening 1rationwide on Ja11uary 26, 1996. (PIIoto courtesy of New Line Cinema) RUC 89.7 fm· Performing Arts@ UNION Upcoming Events- Winter 1996 Union College Jazz Ensemble, Tim Olsen, Director & The Steve Kenyon Quartet St. C~cilia Orchestra, Peter Bay, Conductor Union College Orchestra & Choir Concert (with college choirs from WPI, Wells, Regis, and Union) Hugh Allen Wilson, Conductor Thursday, January 25 Yulman Theater@ 8:00PM Saturday, February 10 Memorial Chapel8:00 PM Sunday, February II Memorial Chapel3 :00 PM Schenectady Museum and Union College Concert Series Vellinger String Quartet (featuring Haydn, Mendelssohn, Purcel and Britten) For.further ;,~formation, contact the Per:ftm11ing Art.\· /Jeparlmenl at .t620/ Friday, February 2 Memorial Chapel8:00 PM • • • ' 1 • ' • • ' J. • ' .f. ' ~ J l • I f E l '

The Philomathean Society at Union College KevinOids Secretaryffreasurer, PhilomatheanSociety The faculties of the mind are excited by collision. This is the credo ofthe Philomathean So- ciety at Union College. Euphe- mistically called \Philo this or- ganization wages a constant war to promote intellectual intercourse and free think- ing. Perhaps the most vis- ible part of the Philomathean Soci- ety is the de- bating. On two or three lively debates on a wide range of topics. And you can never tell what')rou will find. A visitor might first be witness to a heated battle over abortion. Following this· 'they could be caught up in an equally impas- sioned debate of boxer shorts versus briefs. No matter what the topic, the members of the so- ciety vigorously uphold their opinion through structured ar- gument and heartily invite guests to do so as well. ln contrast to the bluntness of debate, the society also par- takes in literary readings and dis- cussions. Again, anything goes. Guests are just as likely to hear a passage of Ge()ffrey Chaucer's Canterbury Tales as they are tohear a selection from Stephen King, Douglas Adams, or even Rush Limbaugh. P'ieccs authored by the members themselves are also often presented. Nothing is taken for granted to be too insi gni fi- cant,and thetext in qucstionis al- ways ana lyzcd .and scrutinized. In conclu- sion, the struc- ture of Philo provides a )good exam pie of its nature. Although the or- rganization prides itself on having a rebellious quality, it operates udder the strict rules of parliamentary pro- cedure. The atmosphere is al- ways open and friendly, and visitors are always welcome to partake in an evening of rheto- ric and socializing. ·The Philomathean Society ~rts in Hale House Upper Lounge on Fridays at 7:29pm, beginning January 19th. We hope to sec you there. by Mike Farwell The Union Volleyball Club is currently in its second year. Last year we had a great bunch of guys who were dedicated and played some good v-ball. Although things didn't always run smoothly (it was our first year), we still managed to have a blast. We were lucky to get Coach Leslie Bogucki from the Women's Varsity Volleyball team to help us. She ran our practices, and some of the women from the varsity team also helped. We practiced once a week and went to 6 USVBA tournaments. We competed at the BB!I31evel. At the end of the season, we made a road trip out to Rochester to play some 2-man sand volleyball at Charlotte Beach. Everyone involved had a great time. and this year is looking to be even better With a year of '1111111111-~~~~~~~ experience under our r belts, more tourna- ments closer to home, and a huge hunger to play and WIN. we should have a great season this year! We will again have a coach, and our goal is to make the team as hard-core as possible. We plan on scrimmaging some local clubs, and we might even host a lJSVBA tournament here at Union. If you miss the thrill and excitement of tattooing opponents with your spike, or if you think that you might be interested in the club, give one of us a call. The officers are me (Mike Farwell (x5685)), JcffSachar (x5627), and Brian Smallwood (x:5968). We love winning, and we planon having a lot offun while we do it. 12 Virtual U. Comes to Students Aid Have you ever been faced with any ofthefollowing questions: How BIG is your HARD disk? How much RAM do you re- ally need? How come my floppy is al- ways infected with a virus? If you answered the previous questions with a question, you are not alone. Many on this campus are baffled by computer talk. Fortunately, there is a place to ,go where one can gain knowl- edge and ex: perience about com- puters. This place is Virtual U. Our members range from first time users, looking to get their by Jason Temple President of Virtual U. feet wet, to computer geeks and propeller heads. who would rather crash their cars than their hard disks. If you're are interested in learning about the Internet and other computer related topics, Virtual U provides students, alumni, faculty, and staff with the opportunity to do so. We hold seminars on a variety of topics which include Personal Home Page authoring to basic Unix (unvax) skills. We also pro- vide members with the ability to place their own home pages on the Internet. Virtual U currently operates and administers its own Linux. server. This machine provides basic user accounts (ftp, gopher. e-mail, etc ... ) and also is our World Wide Web server. Please join us at out next meet- ing, Friday the 19th at 3pm in the Reamer Campus Center. Check our Web page for up to date information: http:// virtual. union.edu. Questions and comments e-mail: webmaster@virtual.union.edu. WRUC: A Proud Tradition The Bicenteunial was not the only significant anniversary to be celebrated here at Union in 1995. On October 14, 1995,Union Coli ege cel- ebrated the seventy- fifth anni- versary of the first ra- dio broad- cast at the Col- I ege. Indeed, back in 1920, members of the College's radio club, broad- casting under the call letters 2ADD, becametheoperatorsof the first radio station in the United States: the first station in the nation. 2ADD hroadcasts were the first to be heard by the general By Andy Fradkin Manager ofWRUC public from far and wide~ our station once had the range to reach the Canadian city .of C h a r I o t t e to wn , Prince Edward .Island, 620 miles northeast of Schenectady. Other firsts for the sta- tion in 1920 in- clude the broadcast of the November 2nd Harding vs. Cox presidential election and the Hobart-Union football game on November 14, the first sports broadcast on American radio. The year 1940 saw the adop- tion of the call-letters WRUC, which stands for \Wireless Ra- dio Union College.\ The sta- tion moved to the FM band in 1975,operatingat lOwatts. Now transmitting at 100 watts at 89.7 megahertz, WRUC primarily pro- vides modem. rock programming as an alternative to mainstream commercial radio. A wide vari- ety of musical styles and genres are also presented by student broadcasters, as well as colle- giate sporting events. WRUC has resumed broad- casting for the winter term. Cur- rently, the broadcast range is the greater Capital District where both students and local resi- dents listen and call in with re- quests. If you would like to get involved in WRUC, send e-mail to WRUC@GAR.UNION.EDU or check out the WRUC World Wide Web homepage at http:// virtual. union.edu/-wruc. LOSE20POUNDS IN TWO WEEKS Famous U.S. Women's Alpine Ski Team Diet During the non-snow offseason. the U.S. Women's Alpine Ski Team members used the \Ski Team\ diet to lose 20 pounds in 14 days! The basis ofthe diet is chemical food action and was devised by a famous Co lorado physician especially for the U.S. Ski Team. Normal energy is maintained(very important) while reducing. You keep \fuH\-no starvation- because the diet is designed that way. It's ad iet that is easy to fol.Jow whether you work, travel, or stay at home. This is. honestly, a fantastically successful diet. If it weren't, the U.S. Women's Alpine Team wouldn't bepermittedto use it! Right? So. give yourself the same break the U.S. Ski Team gets -lose weight the scienti fie, proven way. Even if you've tried all the other diets; you owe it to yourself to try the U.S. Women's Alpine Ski Team Diet. That is, if you really do want to lose 20 pounds In two weeks. Order today! Tear this out as a reminder. Send only $8.95 ($9.60 in Calif. )-add .50 cents RUSH service to: American Institute, 721 E. Main Street, Dept. 254, Santa Marla. CA 93454-4507. Don't order unless you e\pect to lose 20 pounds in two weeks! Copyright 1995 e h i I s ]; e s S< Sl c a a c

Features by Conor McKenzie Concordiensis Staff This winter of 1995-96 has been one ofthe most epic displays of quality, constantly hard-core snowfall contained in the memory stores of my noodle. I must say it was nice to spend 6 weeks in my . hometown, Burlington, VT, bombing down Mt. Mansfield whenever I got the chance to ride or ski. Obviously, it's great to be back in the wonderful city of Schenectady, over 3 and half hours. away from Stowe. Skiing's rcaUy dangerous, but when it snows like this, I have no choice. You see, fun isjust as crucial to a healthy body as spinach or milk. In Vermont; the best way to get my daily f1x is to ski, and that scares the bejcezus out of me. Those hard-hard trees that I shoot between when the snow is good, the cliffs, the chutes, the jumps-it frightens me to think of these things. Unfor- tunately, those arc just the most obvious hazards. I mean, what if the un cable breaks, what ifthcre is an avalanche- or an earthquake? How do I know that one of the lift rats isn't a diehard NRA junkie who thinks I look like a huck hounding through the woods? When I thinkaboutall the per- 6DEGREES The Concordiensis January 18, 1996 pg 13 ils that face me just to get my adrenaline fix, I wish I didn't have to go out of the house at all. Sadly, no matter how hard I try, I c~n't make \Days ofour Lives\ exciting. God, let's just say that I'm glad to be back in the womb- like safety of my dorm. For some whacked-out reason, it's actually snowing more here than in Yermont...capital-dis- triet-effect or something. Gen- erally, the amount of snow is di- rectly linked to the amount of clanger- more snow, more ski- ing, more jeopardy. So, why arcn 't I trembling? I give all the credit to a I ittle phe- nomenon I call the Union Counter-Effect. Good skiing is hard to find within a day trip from Schenectady is a zoo, West Mountain is tiny, and ev- erything else is too far away. The Union Counter-Effect keeps me safe in two ways. The llrst is very simple, I don't ski. thcret<xc I stay safe. The sec- ond is related to the first, he- cause I don't ski, depression sets in, making it less and less likely that I leave my room. The end result - at Union snow doesn't scare me as much, which makes me a lot happier. How could I get any safer? I don't even have to leave campus for fun wheA I've got TtlEta lu:A.ra X111 within a ten minute walk. What is the worst thing that the snow could do to me here in Schenectady? I could pass-out and get buried in the snow, but that's unlikely. I could walk into the front en- trance ofReamerCampus Cen- ter, that is, if I ignore the barri- cade. Snow could fall from a roof onto my head, but snow is soft. Student-s, welcome back to Union. I'm sure tl.:lat you're just as glad as I am to be back, pro- tected from aM the threats that snow brings with it. Just don't get complacent. As long as snow is on the ground, no one is truly safe. LOOKING FOR OF SEPA TION A Goon REAn? by Pete Sorensen Concordiensis Staff A wise person once said that everyone in this world is some- how connected to everyone else in this world by no more than six other people. Example: Janice, our security person, is connected to Martin Scorcesi by a mere five people. She busted an anonymous freshman for noxious odors; that freshman's roommate had a fling with my roommate; I know my room- mate because he Jives with me: over break I chatted with Demi Moore at a Christmas party in New York City, and three days earlienhe had had coffee with Scorcesi. I often imagine what I would say if a complete stranger (full six degrees) crossed my path one day with the query, \tell me about your culture?\ What could I possibly say? Uhhh, well, here is what we do, and here is what we aspire to? Somehow I suspect that just such a stranger, a demon in the closet perhaps, appeared before a certain John Guare one day and posed this question. But Guare was prepared, and his an- swer was a story - he wrote the script for Six Degrees of Sepa- ration. Perhaps you've heard of it? The play opened at Lincoln Center, ran on and off Broad- way for a year or so beginning in 1989, disappeared for some time, and is now to appear at the illustrious Yulman Theater. Contemporary and uncompli- cated, it has the potential to pro- voke som(' thought and reflec- tion regarding our own set and scrirts. and campus & campus life. The central issues are con- troversial, its underlying scheme tactful, and its approach is head~on. The setting is New Y mk City, so of course the char- acters arc hip because they live on Park Avenue, drink merlot, talk in millions of dollars, and discuss Kandinsky and Picasso. Some background informa- tion: apparently Guarc wrote the entire script at once, that is to say, over a very short period oftime. It has only one act and, incidentally, a certain Fred Ulrich discovered Guare 's mas- terpiece while sitting on the can one night, and reportedly, \.it was all over 45 minutes later. I knew I wanted to do more than just act in this play-1 had to direct it.\ Which just about brings us to January 18, 1996, a little less than a month before opening night (February 15th). The cast is entirely students, a slight change from the Per- forming Arts Department's fall-term extravaganza which featured a professional Eliphalet Nott. The director, Mr. Ulrich, is a student. His entire production staff is com- posed of students. Welcome to Union. This is part of our cul- ture. W c arc part-time thespi- ans, we arc not who we appear to be, we arc all the world and this is our stage. Welcome to 1996. I might add-Six De- grees represents a very real I i fc and lifestyle. Face this, or let it kick your behind out the door. Should you choose to view this production, expect to con- front homosexuality. alhcit in- directly. Expect ridiculous par- ents and college kids, personal insecurities, and personal fears and hopes. Expect to confront a part ofyourself. You might even expect a bit of nudity-! caution, this production could be rated NC-17. lley, all this and more, or another night of Scga and zonk--choose wisely, friends. by Pete Sorensen Concordiensis Staff I We111 To Collexe. And It Was Ok is a book of cartoons, stick- 11gurcs akin lo the Simpsons but without their yellowish hue. The figure whose daily routine we follow is a dorky little guy, but maybe I shouldn't talk. His hair is cut short, kinda like Dave Matthews, but not quite as short as Marcellus Wallace's. His eyes are empty circles, his mouth a relaxed, lopsided I ine. I had him pegged for a smack hack, 'til I realized . he has no nose; besides, he's made of lines--why would he want anymore? I !e--well, actually, he shows no sign of belonging to either sex. But his name is Dave. I think .Anyway, check out his I ife- he goes to college and meets his roommate, who turns out to be Ok. He and his roomtl')atc cat some cupcakes for dinner, and feel pretty Ok. He goes to class. and class is Ok lie goes to a party and does party things. The next day. he is not quite Ok In fact, his eyes are still double X's, not empty circles Surprise--he goes to class again, and it's (yup) Ok. The next day he goes to class again, and he's still Ok. However, his empty circle-eyes have been replaced by 1 ittle I ines identical to his mouth. The caption says. \Dave is tired\ Hmmm ... maybe, but I doubt it I flip hack a page and notice the culprit--a stick-figure tube-like thing stand- ing (partially concealed) next to Dave's roomie's chair. I flip back an- other page and on their coffee table is a small bag. In the bag is a fresh, shiny quarter; on the following page, there is no quarter. Now, you may wonder, why have I bothered to share this with you') Well, f()r starters. the hook is damn funny, and you should probably read it But it's more than just a laugh. it's symbolic. Now, don't panic, I'm not going to try to he all intellectual and relate the book to life or Union or an African Swallow or anything. The symbol is undeniable, the sym- hol is profound, the symbol is simplicity, and the simplicity is a stick llgurc for whom life is constantly Ok. Woah Life is always Ok? Imagine! John Lennon could--can you?. No matter how ridiculous, banal, and painful your life may seem, it's Ok. I swear on my psych Ph.D. How carefree we could be ifweweren't constantly distraught over something Real life can be such a soap- opera, and we're all the stars I've probably beaten this to death, so I'll step down from my soap-box and slip in a few disclaimers ... 1) The quarter I referred to earlier was no doubt part of our hero's laundry-money stash. 2) The tube-! ike thing was just that--a tube-like thing. I have no idea what else it could possibly be. 3) Just because Dave went to class with X'd-out eyes doesn't mean it's a good idea. 4) Just because Dave never got laid and was still Ok doesn't mean it's a good idea. 5) Unless you are made of lines too, don't try them. In fact, I don't recommend trying anything that Dave does ... This book is available wherever fine books are sold. Actually, it's probably available at our bookstore. To the author, sorry I forgot your name and please don't sue.

Short C~t~: Cutting .Ed.·g. e .Science. Bz,b/zcal Drug Found r..lieful by Dennis Popeo Science and Medici11e Editor When Chljst was born, one of the three Kings that came to visit-brought myrrh. Shortly be- fore his crucifixion, he was again offered myrrh. The history of this compound that is secreted by shrubs in northeast tropical Africa is very distinguished. It was used by the Egyptians for embalming, and by the Jews as anointing oil. Hippocrates rec- ommended it to treat sores, and the Romans used it to treat mouth and eye infections. coughs, and wonn infestations. Today, the usefulness of myrrh is being studied, partially be- cause of its historical past as a drug, and partly because of a common realization that cures of the past often work on illness of the present. Researchers at the University of Florence in Florence, Italy, have been studying myrrh for quite some time and have found that it ex- hibits an analgesic effect 'on rats. Analgesia,_ or the ability to re- duce pain, has been found to be an effect of two of the chemi- by Dennis Popeo Science and Medicine Editor Cocaine is a highly addic- tive drug that is abused by millions of people around the world everyday. Cocaine has been used for several centu- ries in hospitals to cauterize cuts. ll1e fictitious Sherlock Holmes and the not-so-ficti- tious Sigmund Freud both ex- tolled the virtues of this drug. It was not until the mid-nine- teen-eighties that the drug peaked in popularity due to its use by the conspicuously con- suming individuals involved in the \yuppie phenomenon.\ The drug is, however, both physically and mentally addic- tive and responsible for the destruction of several fami- lies, careers, and users. One way to look at addic- tion to drugs such as cocaine is to view it as a mental disor- der, characterized by a neu- rological disturbance, compli- cated by the compulsive be- havior of drug taking and in- tense craving. Cocaine causes both the neurological distur- bance, as well as the compul- sive behavior. When cocaine is used, it enters the blood calsthat make up mynh. Myrrh is composed of essential oils, water-soluble gums, and alco- hol•soluble resins. The analge- sic compounds, called Furanodiene and Curzarene, were found to reduce pain by interacting with the brain's opioidmechanisms. The researchers are hopeful thatthe compounds isolated wi II have somemedical applications but are uncertain to the extent that the compounds .effect the opioid pathways. The Stomach of a Snake Holidays are often a season of stuffing- stuffing the turkey, stuffing our faces, .and the.n stuffing our stomachs into pants that fit us only days be- fore. Although the thought of the holiday feast causes many to make resolutions about visit- ing the gym, we rarely think abaut what feasting and starva- tion does to our stomachs. · Overeating does cause a slump in activity that is :.Caused by blood being diverted to the stomach, intestines. and liver, stream and quickly crosses into the brain tissue of the nucleus accumbens and pre- frontal cortex: the reward ar- eas of the brain. In these ar- eas which promote pleasur- able feelings, cocaine works to lengthen the synaptic pres~ ence of the neurotransmitter dopamine by blocking its re- uptake cycle. This causes a little dopamine to go a very long way. Dopamine is usu- ally released in these areas when something pleasurable happens to us. l11e presence of cocaine, then, makes those good feeling last a lot longer. llms, simple delightful expe- riences, such as in terconrse, become intense hedonistic roller-coaster rides. It is no wonder that this drug is so abused. Recently, studies ltave been published concerning an im- munization to cocaine that is successful in combating the effects of the dn1g. Immuni- zation against cocaine requires the production of a vaccine that, when used, would ren- der the effects of cocaine null on the brain. In order to find a suitable vaccine for cocaine. scientists had to first find a stable form of the chemical. and an overall bodily relaxation which aids digestion. Research- ers, however, rarely focus on humans for studying physi· ological effects of overeating; it seems that we do not overeat enough. In order to get a good look at the stresses put on the digestive system. researchers often study species of snakes which eat meals that can be as large as deer. Researchers have teamed that digestion and assimilat.ion of food consumes a considerable percent of the energy available in the food. TI1is energy is used to power digestion, absorption and food processing, as well as maintenance of the digestive structures themselves. l11e lin- ing ofthe digestive tract, which consists ofepithelial cells that can both absorb nutrient and eject mucous, have a very high metabolism and a high rate of cell loss and tumover. l11ese factors cause the digestive tract to be rather \expensive\ nutri- . tionally to maintain. So expen- sive that animals .that hibemate often cannot sustain these tis- sues, thus maintenance of these which readily breaks down both outside and inside the body. This stable form of cocaine must then be linked to a foreign carrier protein which would stimulate the body's immune system to pro- duce antibodies to bind to the drug, and subsequently pre- vent its diffusion into the brain. Researchers at the Scripps Research Institute in La Jolla, California, have found a stable form of cocaine and have linked it to a carrier protein. The team, headed by Dr. M. Rocico A. Carrera, injected their vaccine into rats, and then injected the rats with cocaine. The team found that the ro- dents exhibited less of the ste- reotyped behavior of rats on coke. After a post-mortem examination of brain tissue of the rats, the team found that levels of cocaine in the brains of immunized rats were 52% to 77% lower than in animals not treated with the immuni- zation. The researchers also found that this immunization lasts for at least 20 days after injection. Immunization for cocaine abuse is a more promising method of treating ~ddicts. Conventional drug treatment tissues are often the first thing to shut down during their long .winter nap. Snakes provide a very interest- ing set ofdata about fasting and feasting. Many species of snake are bradymetabolic ani~ mats (animals that feed intermit- tently). Extreme examples of these animals are .pythons, vi- pers, and boa-constrictors. 1l1ese animals will feast on prey that is between 50% and 160% their body weight at one \sit- ting.''lllesemeals, however, are ollen separated by unpredict- able fasts that can last several months. Researchers have been study- ing the Burmese python to find out how the digestive system of the snake responds to these adverse conditions. During the fast, the digestive tract of the snake falls into disrepair and atrophy. Feeding initiates a massive reconstruction and build-up of the lining of the di· gestive tract. Within a few hours, the digestive system can double in weight due to a swell- ing of the mucousal lining. This build-up occurs before any of for cocaine abuse involves the blocking of dopamine's ef- fects within the brain. This antagonistic treatment is said to have caused withdrawal symptoms to be exacerbated, as well as required patients to be highly compliant with the treatment and undergo con- stant drug therapy. Immuni- zation does not have the bad side effects, nor does it re- quire constant medication. This body of evidence sounds very promising for the treatment of cocaine abuse, but does have some practical drawbacks. First, with the immunization, the addict can still use cocaine, but will not get the same mental effects. The physical effects like in- creased heart rate, etc., will still be present. When addicts use higher doses of cocaine to gain the desired mental ef- fects, the compminding physical effects of the dmg on the body may cause an in- crease in the rates of overdose in those seeking treatment. Also, the immunization lasts a relatively short time while cravings last a long time. TI1is would require the addict to have many booster shots throughout the period of treat- the \meal\ enters the snake's system, thus it is fueled from energy reserves the snake has stored for just such an occasion. This build-up increases the ab- sorption power of the intestines up to sixteen times, due to the increased surface area of the intestine and the efficiency of the nutrient transport systems. There are other physiological changes in these pythons that follow a large.feast. The blood ofthe animal becomes strongly alkaline,. due to the intense .pro- duction of hydrochloric acid in the stomach. The blood's par- tial pressure of oxygen drops to one-quarter of its pre-feast lev- els, due to strong aerobic me- tabolism during digestion. This metabolic activity comes to a huge cost to the animal. Nearly 32% ofthe energy utilized from the meal is used to support the digestion ofit,.compared to 10% to 23% in other animals. Although the snake'sdigestive system is laid out differently than the humans digestive tract, the processes that occur there are very similar, although much less extreme. ment. Finally, when connect- ing cocaine use to immune function, there is a possibility that the addicts could develop a hyper-sensitive allergic re- action to the drug. Much like a reaction to a bee sting, the severity of the cocaine aller· gic reaction could range from mild swelling to anaphylactic shock and death. The possi- bility of allergic reactions to cocaine would be very high since the preferred administra- tion of the drug is inhalation. This would concentrate. ·the- allergic reaction in the lungs, an organ vital to human sur- vival. Although it is often pre- ferred by both the medical community, and some users, to simply administer a drug to correct a problem, rather than deal with the causes of a prob- lem, this may not be the best cure. In the case of dmg ad- diction, clinicians must look to the reasons why a drug is taken and give the abuser rea- sons not to use. Only when both the biological and emo- tional problems of the addict are solved can the abuser be- come clean. Source: Nature, Vol. 378, 14 Dec. 1995 14 I [ whi dev ofJ Aff Ah Set the bei nor SUJ: the r.un spo wit fe~ wo H ar b;; ni u }I (; 9 c 'I 8 7 I' 6 ( 5 S; a1 1 4 1 3 fc F 2 fl. I H I- ( v n C4 F 1 e· (I ti a

So, What Has the Student Forum Done for You Anyway? by Ken Chase Studet Forum President Dur,ing this pastterm the student forum spent many hours beginning large projects which we plan to work on for the remainder of the year. One·major project is the development of a faculty review pamphlet. This would include individual reviews of faculty members and possibly classes. Our new Vice President for Multicuhural Affairs, Carey Miller, will be working to create a more diverse life on the campus. Also, a committee has formed to give Union College students more say in Schenectady through a voting drive. Another major goal for us this year has been the procurement of social space for. use by the stqdents. Academic issu~s.are also being addressed by the Forum. For. the first tin:te. we have set goals outside of our nonnal business of administrating clubs and dispensing money. We hope for your support and help in achieving these goals. If you would like to help out with one of these committees, or have issues you tee! we should address, call the Student Fo- rum line at X59«J,8. If there is no answer, leave a message. I will personally re- spond ~to your cali promptly with information about how the forum will proceed with your suggestion. If you don't call, you have no right to complain. It takes a few minutes to make a phone call and describe something you are upset about, or would like to see changed. Pick up the phone, x5998, you're not tlrat busy. Where to Go, What to Do .. Chia-:Jun:g -Chiu Junior Class PresMmt • Happy New Year and welcome back to good or Union! Lots of exciting things are happening in the Student Forum. We hope to start otT the new term with a bang. Our main objective is to provide social alternatives for the Union commu- nity. So, without further ado, we ·present: The Top Ten List of Places to go at Union ... 10. Going out to dinner at nearby restaurants (Friendly's, Gepetto's ... ) GO 9. Student Forum meetings ... held every Thursday from 5:30 to 7:30p.m. in CC409. TO 8. Hanging out in a friend's room talking,,wat9hil)g a movie, watching TV, etc. \A 7. TGIF ... free food and great entertainment. Enough said. NIGHT 6. Hanging out in your own room with a bunch of friends. ON 5. Ratheskellar ... will be open from 9:00 p.m. to I :00 a.m. on Friday and Saturday nights starting Jan!lary 26th. Food can be purchased with Validine or an equivalency, and there will be a cash bar. THE . 4. Union hockey games at Achilles Rink. TOWN\ 3. \A Winter Affair\ ... to be held o~ February 24, 1996. More. details to follow. FRIDAY 2. Weekend movies shown -in the College Center Auditorium. And the number one place to .go to at Union ... I. \A Nighton the Town\ ... January 19, 1996, from 9:00p.m. to l:OO a.m. at Hale House/ Old Chapel. Only five dollars per couple with tbod, drink, and dancing. Our other goals include creating a center exclusively for students, expanding Validine usages, developing a faculty and course evaluation, and increasing the number of voting members here at Union. If you have any ideas or suggestions concerning the above, or about anything else, feel free to stop by the Student Forum meetings. That's it for now. As a side note to juniors, if you have any ideas for activities or events for our class or for the entire school, please drop a message in my mailbox (#310) or voicemail (3259) or e-mail (chiuc@unvax); Thanks for taking the. time to read this. Hope your term got otT to a great start . . . see you at any- of the abov~ top ten! I Give bac.k, to get back!! Courtesy of Student Forum Five months from now graduation will take place. At that time nearly 500 students will switch from being seniors to alumnus. After three and a half years, we have one last chance to make our mark on Union. To do this, we need the support of the entire class of 1996. Each year the senior class gives a gift to the school. This gift is chosen by the class tor future Union students to enjoy. Now 1 know .what you might be think- ing, \I have already given enough money to this school.\ Sa I ask you, what is a few dollars more? If you do not feel like donating more money; do it to make President Hull pay. He has the long standing promise that he will match the students money if !00% of the class makes a contribution. Last year only 56% of the seniors donated money. I am hoping that our senior class can do much better than that. All it takes is a donation of $1, $10, $19.96, or just$0.01. This fs our chance to make Union just a little bit better. Do not give up the opportunity for the class of 1996 to go out with a bang. Support your school and your class. MEMBERS ABSENT: - Zandman *Forum Meetings set to be held on THURSDAYS (5:30-7:30) :OFFlCER.~~EPORTS: -Schafter- ·c.' - Lee Rose has sent a letter to all clubs stating that all funds will be \frozen\ until update rosters are handed in. A new roster will have to be updated every term. - Introduced discussions on Parking violations and the committee that is in charge of reviewing appeals. -Camara- - Finance Committee will hold its tirst meeting on Tuesday at 6:00 PM to discuss various budgets. -Strosberg- - Student Lite Survey is set to be released. A $100 prize will he competed fi.lr. *CROSSTALK on Dating at llnion on Wednesday at 7:00PM. -NIGHT ON THE TOWN will be held on Jan. 19. - TGIF will only have appetizers and upper-class dining will be reopened. -Lapinski- -Miller- - Rush Convocation will be Wednesday Jan. 10. - Scholarship Convocation for Sorority members in honor of academic achievements will be held Jan. 14. :NEW BUSINESS: Members chose projects to work on .... Book Swap Miller Academics--Korber, Tolkoff Voting and.Student.Center--Beswick, Camara, Chiu, Pellish, Cuhnanan Valadine Extensions--Camara, Shapiro Faculty & Course Evaluations--Dougherty, Malaspina, Lapinski, Grandwetter - Dean Altotd has approached Ken Chase about opening the RA THSKEL- LER on the weekends, F_riday & Saturday from 9-1, tor food and drink. Forum debates issue. Camara Motions to accept idea with provisiQns that this begin on Saturday, Jan. 20. Motion seconded by Lapinski and passes u.nani- mously. ... - Meeting brought tq a close by a unanimous vote at 6:00 PM. 15

OUT ON A LIMB by GARY KOPERVAS ~WAY Fo~ M\OD\-E ,._G'C.D lA~ '¥;:, t:lEL.t'IE. fNtr ~ \\~'et 'YovTH ~ Ai. 5,~n.u::iAv P~\lSS, f'I~#'-T,...S ftL-\..¥0 ~\'\{\.\ #1\.t&T~C.\DS ••• ·. King Cro·ssword . · ACROSS 37 Singer Davis 19 Yon folks 1 Ill-lit 38 Marx Brothers 20 Ram•s ma'am 4 Bankrolls movie 23 Run for exercise 8 Post-diet 45 Tend texts 24 Kyoto 12 Dos Passos 46 Beige cummerbund trilogy 47 Do-it- 25 Barbie's beau 13 Greatly yourselfer's 26 Cereal grain 14 Golfer JerTY buy 27 Emulate 15 Oinunent 48 Use a paper towel Holyfield intruder 49 Burn a bit 28 Put to work 16 Flavoring for 50 TV's Tarzan 29 Train component 33 Across 51 --do-well 31 Unimprovable 17 Nevennore? 52 Cany 32 Affluent 18 Puny pugilist? 53 Kinsey subject 34 Chan type 21 .. Yo!\ DOWN 35 Not a kid 22 It does the 1 Actor Howard anymore hole job 2 Man. for one 36 Michaelmas 23 Nicholson 3 Pre-Columbian daisy portrayal Indian 37 Corday•s 26 Raw rock 4 Round piece prey 27 Tampa Bay of hardware 38 Cut into 1 ~ lumber Payer, 10 r 5 Tomcat's short bailiwick 39 Garfield's pal 30Toe the line 6 Access 40 Ready.for 31 Launch the picking structure 7 Flight 41 Canyon 32 Parks or Bonheur atten~ant phenomenon 33 Potent potable 8 ;u~, •.n a way 42 Scratches (out) 34 Favorite 9 M director 43 Anger 35 Recording-studio 10 Cortisone 44 Charon's milieu employee target 36 Broadcast 11 Bump into ... .. . . . . .· ? \ -~ ' • ' I\ ~ ---·-· \Let's get out of here before they try to blame this on us!\ \Now now, children ... we mustn't bother Mr. Taylor while he's tuning the piano.\ \He's a charter member of Artists Anonymous.\ o·---.·- .......... -..,.._ \You weren't much for change back then either.\ .c..- ...... ·----...-- \You certainly have a well- equipped workbench. n \Sorry sir, but we can't . sell them separately.\ ot th Ol Pf Ia Ia B1 al m bt sc p~ p< c~ hf vi sc fe to A S< se bt UJ \I ac S) al f. d; H d; 111 tu w v B tt hl IT E a! dl 81 rr 1< T 0 Cl rl fi E tl p r;

Our Brave New World by J)~vidEder Living Editor After receiving a paper the other day, I became aware of the insanity that lies hidden in our educational system. This paper which I refer to had a large red letter printed on the last page. The letter was a \B.\ But it might-as weUhave been a large scarlet \A~' engraved on my chest. The only difference between the two is that the scarlet \B\ is hidden on the last page of the paper and not ex- posed to the masses. In both cases a final judgment has been made and, as the puritans' views of Hester would change, so might the views of a pro- fessor. Today's \B\ may be tomorrow's \A\ or \C.\ A \B\ is certainly respectable. So why then did this grade up- set me so mucb? Even if it had been an \A\ I would have been upset. My .point is that while \B '\ s and \A\' s are deemed acceptable grades, thegradi:n,g system is completely unaccept- able. How dare you grade me! How dare you grade our children! HOW DARE YOU! How dare you trivialize my thoughts, my emotions, and my intellec- tual capacity by labeling me with a simple letter! Written by Aldous Huxley, Brave New World is a novel that predicts the future of the human race, Every person is manufactured in test tubes. Each baby is labeled at birth as an alpha, beta, gamma, delta, or epsilon. The alphas are superior physically and mentally to tlie others. Epsi- lon minus' are semi-morons. The babies are deprived of · oxygen and fed alcohol at pre- cise amounts to ensure the cor- rect level of incompetence from each category ofhumans. Each group is trained to believe that their group is the best. The people are satisfied with their rank. All motivation has been taken away, and the .people ex- ist bap.pily by taking pills that are the futuristic equivalent of Prozac. A strange~ or \sav- age\ who is unfamiliar with this ranking finds that he would rather die than join this soci- ety. What do you think was liuxley's inspiration for this ranking system that destroys the individuality of people? Could it be our current method of grading students? Does anyone realize that America's system of education and grad- ingwascleveloped in Germany and, at the time, it was widely known that this system would only allow about 5%ofthe stu- dents to become the problem solvers? Do we as students want to continue to allow our- selves to be subjected to such a subjective system? Do we want our children to be judged so harshly? The grading system wrongs students. It fosters competi- tion rather than cooperation. People have natural gifts in some areas and struggle with other subjects. A failing grade in a sub.- ject makes a stu- dent feel that he/she is not good in that subject and may not try any- more. While an \A\ tells the student that he/ she has done the best possible job and need not try any harder. Both cases are extremely damaging. Grades change our motivation from wanting to learn to not wanting to fail. If you want to grade something, try grading a student's desire to understand God's will. Or his/her capac- ity for loving others. That sounds absurd doesn;t it? Well, so is grading my knowledge on Emerson. A school is ulti- mately a teacher. The schools may not always do a good job at teaching what they intend to, but they do a great job atteach- ing students that failure is bad. But is it? Thomas Edison once said, \The reason I know so much is because I have failed so many times.\ Schools are teaching us that grades are more important than knowl- edge and more import~nt than the ability to think. In other words, our school system is bringing us down. Naked Mountain C . . 1·. b . . Im··•ng by Chris Richard~ Living Editor Winter term is upon us. Long, cold, and dark days Hlled with the same old stuff. Many a good person has fallen victim to depression that foltows win- ter term. The smart students have taken term abroad this winter to the Bahamas or Costa Rica. But as for the rest of us, we are left to our own devices to find something to break up the monotony or else face cer- tain boredom. This being my tifth winter term at Union College, I believe that I can help some of the younger students break away from the winter term blues. Contrary to popular belief, there are many exciting things to do during winter term. There are some great places to go sled riding, all within five minutes by car. There are ski- the steep terrain. Upon Feach- ing the top of the mountain you - begin to feel a sense of oneness with nature. You see the world as the Indians did, perfect and unblemished. The only appro- priate thing to do at this point is to strip down to your birthday suit and celebrate your existence. Stand naked and free. Scream a prayer of praise to the Cre- ator tor giving you life. And feel wind. Hear the tales of great men and women reaching out .to help those who need it. Vow to the world that you too will add everything you can into the river of life. Stand naked, fac- ing the cold-wind, and, although the air is cold, feel the love of Nature warm you. But don't overdo it. When you get cold, put your clothes back on and be grateful that you have slopes all over the northeast. What do you have to do to get it up? We have an ice skating rink, this life. Stand naked, free, clothes to put on. Be grateful squash courts, racquet ball screaming praise, feeling nature that you will be warm again and courts, a pool, basketball challenging you. Fed life remember that there are those courts, and a litncss center course your veins and ex peri- who will not be. The dccent is right here on campus. But, in ence the purity of nature. Face the best part of the hike. The my mind, nothing is better than the wind, embrace it, then har- snow covers the earth and at- mountain climbing in the win- ness it. Ask the wind to carry a lows you to run with reckless ter. message to the one you love. abandon. Run as fast as you Mountain climbing in the win- Send this person a kiss and a can. When you fall, the snow ter comes second to none. All story of joy and love. The wind tprotects you. Enjoy the road lessons of life can be learned always carries these messages down because it is inevitable that through the hike- the struggle · of love. Wind loves to carry we must fall after we rise. And of reaching the top, the joy of these messages, wouldn't you ifit is inevitable we might as well reaching your goal, and the new enjoy it? In fact, that is what accept and enjoy it. When you perspective gained by the wind is made of. The chaotic reach the bottom, remember the change of scenery. In reach- system of wind and weather is experience and note that al- ing higher elevations, we el- unpredictable because it is ere- though hiking is a lot of work, evate our soul. ated from the unpredictable it is also enlightening and enjoy- The accent is dernand!ng but emotions of man. Crouch na- able. And when you go to work enjoyable because the cold air ked, silently listening to the other the next day, recall what you cools you as you manipulate messages being sent through the learned on the mountain. $1 A WASH, 5TH WASH FREE FREE DRYING TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS 8AMT03PM SEE STORE FOR DETAILS & ADDITIONAL SAVINGS 17 -' ,.,

Intennurals Start In Full Force by .Josh Mendelsohit Stllff JJ 'riter While Union's varsity sports battle through their winter schedull.!s, many other competitors are preparing li.lr an exciting season of their own. lntnunu- ral competition begins this \Veekend in men's and women's baskt.:tball, broomball, and hockey as wdl as in co- ed volleyball. Union College's athletic department will also be offering squash, racquetball. and free throw shooting tournaments open to all students. This season looks to be as competi- tive as the fall was for intramural ath- letes and with all of the results in. we have the fall's top ten teams in oYemil points . In first place with an outstand- ing 440 points were the teams from Sigma Chi who were followed dos.ely by the men of Theta Delta Chi \\ tth 435 points. Fiji finished third with 195·points and Fox tirst tloo!' finished fourth with 185 points. In tilth place wt.:re the men's • 0 soccer champions -from the LouPe fin- ishing with 130 points followed by South first tloor(l20), Delta Phi (85), the Rockem Rockets (80), Sigma Phi {75), and rounding out the top ten, Phi Delta Theta with 70 points. As the upcomint; season approach~s l wish everyone the best of luck nnd re- mind you all to play hard, play thir, and remember, just because it's intramurals doesn't mean that it doesn't count. See you on the court and in the rink! To the girls ofWade Lupe- Don't ever forget that when the going gets tough, the tough wave a laundry bas- ket up in the air to wait for CHIPS to caome and take them to a padded room. But, above aU. else, it's home sweet home, RIGHT? Love, Uza The Sisters of Delta Delta Delta wouyld liktothankthe SistersofSigma Delta Tau tbr a good time. Phi Sig- Keep on playing TEP T Union vs. RPI, January 26, 1996 Two Days before Super Bowl Sunday, but the most important day o fthc year!! Bahoo You art the best. I don't know what I would do without you. Thank you li.ll' all of the suppport. l.ove Tony To tlw Boys, Thanks for the support. Sorry J have bcell so husy lately, hut things wi 11 get easier and bettr, and fun will sti II be the most important thing I PROMISE!!!! 18

~........__. ............... _Track and Field--...._ ·Great Start llt Hamilton by Mike Leding Staff Writer The big surprise of the week- end was how excellent the women's teatnperfonned. This is a team that in the past was lucky to have ten women performing; but with increased numbers and a plethora of talented freshmen, the women only lost by six points to Hamilton: 57 to 51. Ther.e were also many events that the women didn't have .anyone participating in, such as the 4x409rneter relay, which gave Hatl!ilton five points. Once invitational meets come around where the team with the mosttoptalent wins, however, the women will destroy this team. On the men's side, they fell short by 18 points, 22 of which Union had no one participating, so ifyou can pole vault, hurdle, or high jump, please stop by-. All in all, it was a pretty impressive meet for only a week of practice. Michelle Woodward, Julie Fitman,-and Jane \Seekins started the scoring off for the women by sweeping the women's weight throw with distances of7 .04, 6.68, and6.54metersrespectively. Julie Firman came back to win the women's shot put with a throw of 8.97 meters, and Michelle Woodward placed third with a throw of 7.31 meters. Freshman Danielle Steele started her college track and field ·career quite nicely by placing first in the long jump with a leap of 4.48 meters, first in the high ju~p clearing a height of 1.3 7 meters, and first in the women ;s 55 meter hurdles m a time of9.79 seconds. Also placing in the high jump was· Diane Cohen, finishing second clearing 0. 9 meters. In ~e running events, Molly Hoodplacedfirstinthe l500mwith a time of 5:23.86. In the 800 meters,JessicaGoveiaran an im .. pressive 2:35.12 to place. second. Amelia Audette, the only senior .. ,' ,·. mtthe team, placed first in the 3000 meters in a timeofl2:09.11. The women finished' up their scoring when they won the 4x800 meter relay with the teatn of Amelia At~dette, Sara Mcintosh~ Jessica .Qeveia, and Molly Ho-od in 11:14.23. . In the field events for the men, Jenne! Royal finished third in the shot put with a tos.s of 12.42 meters. Sophomore Richard Ling, competing in his first collegiate meet, won the long jump wi.th a distance of5.49 m.eters, and Mike Martin finished third with a leap of 5.34meters. Mike also placed second in the triple jump with a distance of 11.72 meters. On the track, Jasen Goldberg and Seth Rudin started off the scoring in the 1500 meters witlt times of 4:24.96 and4:27.ll respectively. Once again Jay cotnplaii'led the team wasn't running at the Ar- mory, but he dealt with it nicely. David Riggi once again won the 55 meters in a time of 6.6 seconds and catile back to win the 200 tileters in a time of 24.53 seconds. In the 400 meters, Mike Leding placed first with a time of 53.59 seconds. In the 800 meters, fresh- man Pete Flynn beat teammate Nick Conway by the narrowest of margins to place first in a time of 2:05.13 to Nick's 2:05.28. Jason Jennings grabbed third in the 200 meters in a time of 25.27 seconds. In the 3000 meters, John Metz placed second with a time of 10:07.84. To-finish off the day, the men's 4x400 meter relay team of Mike Leding, Russ Stram, Nick Conway, and Pete Flynit placed first in a time of3:38.lt2. Overall, it was a great tileet, and the team seemed to be in decent shape for only havittg practiced for aweek. TI1e t~am now bas two weeks to .get into better shape before heading toRPL Good luck to everyone with their training . and keep up the hard work! --· Irish Square -:· - ' . . Dancing (SET DANCING) Every Wednesday ~vening at 7:30, at the Sons of Italy Lodge, - 415 Liberty St.,. Schenectady (near Broadway). I B~ginners always welcome. Come alone or bring a partner,$3 donation. For more information call 736-1761. Women's Hoops Returns From Break to Hard Times by Mike Leding Staff Writer Returning from break, the women were a solid three and three with wins collling against RPI, Russell S&ge, and Utica. Since then, the tc:am has lost five in a row to fall to 3-8, the last two of t·hese losses coming to Bowdoin and Bates over the weekend. J ~n­ ior forward Amy Hitz is leading the UCAA conference in re- bounding, averaging 13 .l a game, and is in the top ten in scoring with 17.4 points a game, but, as with the rest of the team; she is currently in a slump. Union lost last Wednesday night to Binghamton 64-29. They stayed in a very weak zone all day, and could not get over on the outside shooters quickly enough. Number 31 Kathy Bacon of Binghamton continued to drain three pointers as the margin got wider and wider. Tanya Capparello led the Dutchwomen in scoring with 10 points, while adding nine rebounds. On Saturday the team started off in the same apathetic zone and continued to get exploited by the slashing style of Bowdoin's guard Laura Schultz. Bowdoin led 18-4 with six minutes into the game. Union decided to switch to an aggressive man to man defense and outplayed Bowdoin in the second half, but still lost. Tara Blagys led all Union scorers with 12 points. On Sunday, Union seemed ready to play against Batesand trailed only 39-25 at half. ·nte play of freshman guard Mary Schultz and junior Amy Hitz kept them in the game. Bates' coach must have grilled his women dur- ing the half, and Union didn't help ·any by coming out flat in the sec- ond half. With 8:45 remaining, Bates' Kristen Porter busted a three to put the nail in the coffin and. widen the margin to 71-45. l11e Union squad did look to be coming out of their shooting slump, but right now they are still making too many mistakes to be a winning squad. They throw away too many passes and need to improve their dribbling and keep defensive consistency. There is also no reason that this team should have to perfonn be- fore a meager crowd of 50 every night. You could hear a pin drop in the field house, and you feel like you're going to get thrown out if you cheer or yell while the opposing team is at the foul line. Tit is team is young and not ready to be written off yet; they just need to work on some of the ba- sic fundamentals, and they'll be an entertaining squad to watch. llteir next home game is January 23 at 6:00p.m. It would be nice to see some students come out and give them some support. Men's Basketball by Jonathan Gasthalter Staff Writer l11e 1995-96 Dutchmen basket- ball team is tuming overa new leaf. After going twelve and thirteen in 1994-95 and f:,rraduating its start- ing five players, the team returns four seniors including captains Matt Sugarman and Chip Sinclair and is looking to rebuild. The 1995-96 team is young and inex- perienced with underclassmen comprising the bulk of the squad. Co-captain Sugannan felt that this year's team is a \pretty small, but athletic one.\ Sinclair added that \''we are a lot quicker than most teams and that makes up for a lot of the difference [in height].\ En- tering his twenty-third season as Head Coach of the Dutchmen, Bill Scanlon feels that playing good team defense and creating a full court game will alleviate the prob- lem of height. Titus far, the team has not backed down from oppo- nents with larger players and has readily accepted the challenge of playing against them. To get around the larger play- ers and to utilize the speed of the team, Coach Scanlon is running a motion offense that calls for the team to pass the ball around in order to get the opposing defense moving with the goal of allowing people to make individual moves to the basket or sending the ball out to the Dutchmen's sharp- shooters, seniors Sugannan and Jamie Haver and sophomore Rob TeCarr. Tile team is also looking to junior twin brothers Shola and Doyin Richards and senior Bill Bahrs to increase their offensive production this season. Sugannan felt that the keys for the team to win are \rebounding the ball and preventing the opposing team from scoring inside.\ Coach Scanlon added that the focus of the team is to get \a consistent effort and play as hard as possible 1 every game.\ If the team accom- plishes the goals set by Sugarman and Scanlon, it will excel into the ECAC playoffs. The Dutchmen are currently five and five after playing their first ten games at home. The team plays host to Utica on January 16th before taking a two game road trip to St. Lawrence and Clarkson on January 19th and 20th. And You Thought it Was Over ... (Shame on You) b K h \L , W 1 Brits in the first (and hopefully time. llte Drawing will be held · Y a~ Y ~g~ a ter annual) Union College Rugby on February 20th, time TBA but taff Tiler Tour 'de Isles (that sounds rather you DO NOT have to be pre~ent ll'le women ruggers may have French, actually}. For ten days, to win. Other than that, look for been stripped of their chance at the men and women ruggers will rugby sponsored events and States by the dirtier-than-we- be experiencing rugby first hand PLEASE HELP us go to Europe ·thougl~t Albany team, but they in the land where it was born! (We only ask nicely once; then. it ···refuse td give up!!! Break is over The ruggers and ruggettes may get ugly!). If you have any ~ndtlw UWRFC (Union Women's have a very long road ahead of suggestions for fund-raisers or Rugby Football Club, for those them, though, before England, would like to make a personal/ who did' not know and were too Wales, and Ireland will welcome business donation, you may shy to ask) is back in action. 11te them (orratherbeforeAmerica will contact the treasurer of the Union women are joining the allow them to leave!!!). women's team, Kathy Walter at URFC (same as previous abbre- Fundraising is a must, and we 388-5881 or Jon Minehart \;iation only take out the W part) need your help! Currently, there (Lothar) at 388-5687. to stay/get back into/attempt to is a raffle going on with three prizes start getting into/etc. (yes, believe - a stereo, $150 cash, and a it or not there are a few of these homemade Vennont quilt Each 011 the teams) sbape during the chance is only a dollar and can be Winter tenn. Come Spring Break, purchased from any of the male both teams hope to face the meny or female rugby players at any. If you would like to join us in training, fundraising, or touring in Europe, contact one of the Presidents - Stacey Fellows, x5852, or Seth Brown. 372-4067. 19 .\ ,-:/ ....

January 18, 1996 by Dagan LaCorte sports writer Inconsistency, a word which seems to exemplify the play of the 1995-96 .Skating Dutchmen thus far. Through seventeen games these season, the Dutchmen h:1\'e compiled a record of 4-10-\ with a league mark of2-6-2. Some nights the Dutchmen play extremely well, as witnessed by their solid perfonnances versus Maine and New Hampshire earlier this season. However on other nights, the Skating Dutchmen seem to be outmatched by lesser teams such as Yale and Anny. This trend has served to create a great deal of frustration among all who follow Union Hockey. It raises questions of why a team which seems to have a great deal of talent and potential, often seems content with mediocnty. The play of the Dutchmen through the months of November and December typify their manner of erratic play. While most of the Union College ~om­ munity was home for vacation this past month, the Skating Dut~l1mt:n 'wen: hu~y with hockey, playing ten games Jming tht.: winter break. TI1e Dutchmen played poorly through the first seven games. as the only bright spot was a 5-5 tie which came as a result of a last second goal, scored by newly converted forward Reid Simonton. l11e Dutchmen finished off their winter schedule strongly, as they won tvvo of their final three games, highlighted by a 6-1 shel- lacking of the Princeton Tigers. Coach Delv~nthal was hoping the Dut~.:hm~n would build on the Princeton win, coming home for the first time in 1996, against Harvard and Brown. 1l1is past weekend both Dutchmen teams showed their faces, the lackluster one on Friday, and the hard-working one on Sat- urday_ Despite out-shoo.ting the Harvard Crimson 28-26, the Skating Dutchmen were shutout 2-0 on Friday night. Union's of- fense was nowhere to be found on Friday. Women's Basketball l/19-@ StLawrence 6:00pm 1120~@ Clarkson 2:00pm 1123- HARlWICK 6:00pm Men's Basketball l/19-@ St. Lawrence 8:00pm lf20-@ Clarkson 4.:00pm lfl3-HAR1WlCK8:00pm PAGE 20 Brown defetrders keep U11io1l's Reid Simollloll ;, clleck in Saturday's game. (plio to by Rick Lederer for tile Co11cordiensis.) as witnessed by their 0-6 mai·k on the pO\~er play. The team \.Vasn 't skating as well as they usually dt, and Crimson goalie Trip Tracey easily handled all of Union's shots. Despite the poor perfonnance of the Dutch- men squad on Friday, they rebounded Sat- urday night, putting forth an excellent per- fonnance against Brown Urm ersity. Brown University opened the scoring late in the first period, on a power play goal. The Dutchmen quickly evened the s~.:ore, as captain Reid Simonton converted a beau- tiful pass from freshman Mark Szucs, with less than two minutes remaining in the first period. Goalie Trevor Koenig kept the Dutchmen in the game early on, as the Bears out-shot the Dutchmen 18-5 in the first pe- riod. l11e Dutchmen dominated the sec- Men's! Women's Swimming 1/20-@ Middlebury 2:00pm Men's Hockey 1/20-@ RPI 7:30pm Women's Hockey 1/24- TROY Academy 7:30 oncl period, out-shooting Brown 12-9. I low- ever, luck was not on the side of the Dutch- men, as a Bear shot deflected off a Dutch- men defensemen and by Koenig, with less than one minute remaining in the second period, giving the Bears a 2-1 lead. Traditionally, the Dutchmen have not had the greatest success when ~railing atier two periods. However this was not the case, as Union appl.ied great pressure on the Brown net-minder, and were able to tie the game late in the third period. While on the power play,junior forward Chad Thompson made a perfect pass across the front of the Brown Jiet, where Reid Simonton easily slid it by the he1,pless Brown goalie. The Dutchmen dominated the remainder of the game ·including overtime. but were unable to convert the winning goal. This coming Saturday the Dutchmen face off against Capital District rival RPI. Hopefully this weekend will see the arrival of the com- petitive Dutchmen squad at the RPI Field House, a team which could easily defeat the Engineers. ';,( ~-.·? .. >! \. > \ ~ ' . f l f ' 1 > ;

'·;{ ~-_.!·.> .. '-.·\/9'! I , I i., ' ' ·• .. .. nnrnr t.ensts The Student Newspaper of. Union College Since 1877 Volume CXXV Number X UNION COLLEGE OF ' THE 21st CENTURY by Brandon D. Declet Staff Writer Last week a little known presentation was made in the Reamer Campus Center audito- rium. It happened to concern important changes that will oc- cur on campus. It was. a plan presented to the camp\1~ com- munity that outlined physical changes on campus that would be necessary in the next twency years. To most students, twenty years is a long time considering many of us will be here oniy four. But, the 1996 strategic campus plan contains changes coming to the campus a lot sooner than anyone had ever thought. \The 1996 Strategic Campus P1an identifies and coordinates a series of changes in the exist- ing physical development pat- tern at Union College. Twenty- six actions are envisioned. They vary from fundamental changes such as land acquisition to minor redesigns in Becker Hall fi.e. Admissions). Some of the proposals are now under way. Others, projected into an undated future, are contingent upon tnore detailed study later in the century ~m;f .securing funding for impf¢·tlentation. Many will provide ·generations to come with excellent site choices for qualitatively im- proving the campus\(l996 Stra- tegic Campus Plan). This plan came about as a result of the work of a Boston firm, Dober, Lidsky, Craig and Associates, Inc. which was hired to plan not only land us- age for the next twenty years but new constmction as well. Ac- cording to the January 16 draft, displayed last week, several changes could be occurring soon. The first and probably most interesting new construe~ tion will be Honors College. What is now the Psychology building will be converted into special housing modeled after the University of Virginia, in which seniors who have achieved academic distinction can live in historic housing. No specific plans have been drawn up, but one can expect a new housing option with gn;at vi~.:ws of the Nott Memorial and' an · ideal central ~ampus location. Other important ~onstruction wi11 come later, as well as. the sites for them. According to the plan provided by Dober, Lidsky, Craig and Associates, Inc. we can expect at least six new constructi<>n projects not including the new library and the Olin Science Genter, which will begin construction near the Idol following the completion of the new library. These new constructions include: a Center for Innovative Learning, which will include a multipurpose us- Union Student not to drown while exiting dor~itory. Photo py Evan L. Morrisffhe Concordiensis age space using new multime- dia technology; Seward Place housing for faculty and staff; . bookstore relocation to a new site, perhaps near Raymond; music practice rooms and art studios; and a bleachers up- grade, which would bring Union College into the Patriot league. Some of the more interest• ing aspects of the plan are the physical expansions that the · college aims to accomplish. The college plans on expand- ing and relocating nonessen- tial offices and other services off campus, including the. physical plant, and the president's residence. This will be done by acquiring property on Devine Street, as well as most of the property on Lenox Road and Seward Place. The Lenex Road prop- erties whic-h wet~ . ·. · .. · freed up through legal. action will become theme housing, . similar to Srnith and Wells houses. Also on Lenox Road A Night On the Town, Friaay January 19, 1 will be the new residence of -:------P_h_o_t_o_b..:y_L_a_u_re_l_R_u_m_a_I_T_h_e_C__:_on..::.c.:.:..o::.....r_.::d::.ie:.::n:.::s.:.:..is:.____ __ ~ the president. houses on Seward which would Seward Place, in the next provide housing for six to eight twenty years, will become es- students in residences with pri- sentially part of the campus, vate bathrooms and kitchens. according to the plan. The Other sites are also being con- college has been actively pur- sidered, including the parking suing these properties for the lot on the corner of Seward and use of faculty and students Nott. None of the sites have and, eventually, the college been chosen, but the main ob- wishes to construct town- Continued on page 4 Lake Union by Michelle R. Ellis News Editor Massive flooding occurred throughout the col!ege campus on Friday evening, January 19th. . Thanks to the diligent efforts of approximately twenty campus operation staff who worked over- time, and many students in Fox and Davidson, the College sus-, tained only minor damage. This was one of the worst floods in Union College's his- tory. The campus drainage sys- tem originates near Lenox Road, continues into Jackson's Gar- dens and feeds into Seward Place. The cold temperatures caused the groWld to freeze over, which prevented the drainage system from functioning prop- erly. The main entrances to the . Fox and Davidson Residence · Halls were closed off, and stu- dents were asked to use the Fra- ternity entrances. Students pitched in and joined efforts with the campus operations staff to pwnp the cold water out of the lob- bies of the buildings. In doing so the water was diverted from enter- ing the basements of the residence halls and extensive property dam- age was avoided. Only two rooms received mi- norwater damage. The stud~nts in these rooms constructed dams in their doorways as the water en- tered the hallway. Residence Life had agreed to relocate students to off campus housing if the damage to the dorms made the rooms un- livable. This, however, was not the case. David Grzybowski, the head of Campus Operations, stated that the college's top project this summer will be to replace the entrances of Fox and Davidson in order to avoid future problems. Other buildings located in the lower part of campus were affected by the flood. Both the Yulman Theater and the Rathskellar were slightly damaged.

To publicize an event, e-mail the concordy at Concordy@gar.union .edu, or call the Concordy office at extension 615 5. We would be happy to include any and all campus events in this calendar. MONDAY, JANUA-RY 15, 1996: · i :36 AM Chi Psi · 8:15AM West College 8:30 AM Raymond South 9:20AM Psi Upsilon 4:10PM Raymond South 6:29 PM Fox House 11:16 PM Fox House TUESDAY, JANUARY 16,1996: 4:-06 AM Edwards House · 11 :50 A:M Parking Lots · 8:36 AM Steinmetz 4:58 PM Library Lane 5:00PM Fox/Davidson Lot I 0:33 PM Memorial Chapel 9:00 AM Achilles Rink room. 5:08PM Edwards House 8':-14 PM West College door broken. · '1:02 PMPsi 6:06 PM South College 8:50PM Chi Psi FRIDAY, JANUARY 19, 1996: 12:06 AM Davidson House 9:13AM Raymond South 4:22 PMFox!Davidson Lot VANDALISM: Student's window broken oy throWn snowballs. VANDALISM: Sanitary hygiene container dam~ed q · beyond repair. 1st floor. V ANi>ALISM: Window broken and towel dispenser torn off wall. . VANDALISM: Student's room door kicked in. VANDALISM: Several windows broken over the weekend. Conduct Charges filed. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Student's room smoke detector covered by tapestry. Life Safety Violation . Notice filed. · : ·. ·· VANDALISM!LlFE·SAFETY VIOLATION: Smoke detector on .first 1]'o9r hallway damaged. . . . THEFT OF SERVlCES: Food vendor received pr.an!< ·call for food·delivery.' · ~ ·, PARKING VIOLATIONS;• Numerous violations of parking in improper lots. Two cars towed from Lamont Lot. THEFT: IBM computer mouse stolen. PARKING VIOLATIONIV ANDALISM: Vehicle immobilized far repeat unregistered violations. Owner at(empted unauthorized removal of immobilization device.Conduct Charges filed. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized for repeatunregistered violations. THEFT: Cash box stolen from Museum Concert Committee. The box was left unattended in open area. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Baseboard heat covers damaged. Cause undetermined. THEFT: Vacuum cleaner taken from Zamboni THEFT: Student's computer and Nintendo missing from room.Believed taken during winter break. No evidence of forced entry. VANDALISM: Window pane on North. entry VANDALISM: Student's room door kicked in. . VANDALISM: Tampering with vending machine on 1st floor. VANDALISM: Fire escape door broken. VANDALISM/DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Student intentionally broke window. Conduct Charges filed. VANDALISM: Two window panes broken. Trash dumped in hallways. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Student's car acciden tally damaged when operator attempted to move it with immobilization device attached. SATURDAY, JANUARY 20, 1996: 5:31 PMReamer Center ANIMAL: Student's dog on campus unatt~nded. Conduct Charges filed. . 7: 15 PM Edwards House VANDALISM: Glass in entry door shattered. 7:16 PM Fox South THEFTN ANDALISM: Two fraternity composites stolen and plexiglas cover on a third one broken.· 9:44 PM South Terrace Lane HARASSMENT:Student, while walkin~ on South Terrace Lane, was, without provocation or forewarning, struck on the head by one of a group of three non students walking by. Student was not injured. Group walked on after incident. Area was checked after incident was reported SUNDAY, JANUARY 21 1 1996: 12:19 AM Fox House 2:25AM Fox/Davidson Lot 3:03 AM Fox South 3:35AM Davidson North 4:44 AM Fox House 12:50 PM Edwards House 2:00 PM West College • 9:05 PM Webster suspects gone. SECURITY HAZARD~ Student gave room key to a non~student.Conduct Charges filed. DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Altercation in parking lot area. Group broke up and dispersed when Campus Safety Officers arrived. Knowledge of cause and source of incident denied by those interviewed. VANDALISM: Window broken. IJARASSMENT/SIMPLE ASSAULT: Two students wereharassed hy three non-students at a social event. An altercation ensued b~twee.n the students and two of the non-students then ended in th~ parking lot. One student received minor injury. Suspects ran off campus foll~wing. the incident. Refers to incident at SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Intoxicated visitor creating a disturbance on 3rd floor .. Subject identified and returned tol:10st for c~e. VANDALISM: Hoi~ in 'wall, showe~ curtain missing. VANDALISM: Sanitary hygiene container damaged. 4th floor. · ' . · · .. HARASSMENT: Stua()nt beh'lg hara8sed by another • · • stud~nt.Conduct Charges filed. ' I I ( (; c ( t \ ~ a \ c t f i l' c b ( h s j F l'i ,. I l l ' ti 1 I tl e I b ''( !: 1 .,. n , ti \ d ' ! :·

; ·I ,. \ l ' ...... ~.r!\.:\'J ... -~J'~t Campus News \' ·, '-~: ' l1J;4'.e'!Lonco:dti.ensis • January 25, 1996• Page 3 Ebola Virus Hits Union by Aileen Quigly Staff Writer From the rainforests and remote vil- lages of Zaire to the the campus of Union College, Richard Preston will speak on January 30th about the outbreak of the deadly · Ebola virus. Ebola is a .. Level4 hot agent, which . me~ns \it has no vaccine· and:no cure,\ apcording . to the New Yor.k Times. I ~ - • . From this status comes the name· of Mr. Preston's latest book, The Hot Zone. ln this book, he de- scribes with horrific de .. tail 'the suffering each victim endures. Its vic- tims are sometimes af- . fl id:ed with '':pro fuse hemorrhages from the orifices ofthe body,\ and can die of shock. For sci- entists to study such a: voracious killer, extensive clothing precautions must be taken, an.d eve:ryo,n~ i.s subjected to a Student Involvement: chemical shower. Any exposure to Ebola, however minimal, \could spell instant infection and a quick, unpleas- ant death,\ Preston stated in a New York Times interview. Those unfor- tunate enough to contract it experience a slow deteriora- tion of the tis- sues of their bodies. It be- gins as a ter- rible headache, bright red dis- coloration ·of the eyes, and severe skin dis- coloration. Soon the pa- tient begins vomiting large amounts of blood and their bowels begin to bleed. Finally, the entire body is merely \a digested slime of virus particles,\ commented Preston .. The proc~ss taJ.<,es about ten . days. · .. · Where did such a merciless virus come from? Speculation traces its ori- gins to the infiltration of the rain for- ests for cooking fuel by African na- tives. Since transmission is by blood- to-blood contact, someone living by the Ebola River could have eaten in- fected meat, \touched a rushed insect, or ... been bitten by an infected spider.\ From that point on, the disease entered the human race. It has since circu·Jated through at least 55 villages in Zaire. In one month, fifty-six people succumbed to the virus' lethal grip. The scope of Preston's writing of- fers more than scientific expertise, but a grander perspective. He writes that the planet is using disease to rid itself of the \human parasite, ... the flooding infection of people, the dead spots of concrete all over the planet, the can- cerous rot outs in Europe, Japan, and the US, which with replicating primates ... threateningto shock the bio- sphere with mass extinction.\ To·commentonthis theory, or sim- ply to hear about one of the most fas- cinating scientific developments of our time, come see Mr. Richard Preston on January 30th. He is a riveting expe- rienced speaker and has won several awards for his work. His lectures were hailed as \'thrilling and chilling\ by Texas Tech University,and «excellent\ by many others. Come on Tuesday and see for yourselfl Rachel Reaches. Q,utside Our Walls ' ' ' ~ • ' • .0: 'f ~· .. - • I - .. \0' • .. } : ~ t : f • • .,. l o • • jo 0 ' • '- > \ • • by Stephanie Slobotkin Staff Writer .Sch~n.ect~dy, Rachel is ~~~o .a~ ~ctiy~ .. a~~ut reaching out to those in need and als, coalesce to create a more positive .memberofherchurchandiscurrentlya . Ts concerned for the well being ofthe environment for the children of geology major. She hopes that her ex- ample of involvement will influence Rachel Graham, a Union sophomore, other people to take initiative and be role has dedicated her time and efforts to her models from this institution. Rachel community. On Martin Luther King's commented, \It takes a whole commu- birthday, Rachel spoke to the students nitytoraiseafamily.\ She feels strongly communities future. I think Rachel would agree that we sometimes take for granted the lessons we are taught each day here at Union College. Rachel's message is clear: it is crucial that we, as learned individu- Schenectady. There are numerous pro- grams in which to become involved in, and each one benefits the community. There is a world behind our Union walls, and we can make the greatest difference if we simply stepoutside. and faculty. ·c.ouQ,e,:r;n;ing a place in · .. ·_....;;.... ____ .:..·:.....---------------------------------, Schenectady called COCOA(Cbildr.en _ .. and our CommunityrOpen to. Acll.ie.ve- · ; • ment). lt was started by Yolanda King; . · • ·· whb is the eldest' daughter of Martin · ·' Lu~her King Jr. COCOA is an after scHo.ol ·program prom·oted in th·e · Hainilton Hill area that focuses on children'~·echitafion anc1'success. . ·; · · · frhe main purp.ose ·of COCOA ·is to . ' encpuragc;: .children to do work for school •', ' ' • • . ' MOTOPHOTO Create Your Own an4 enjoy it. The program ·urges the children to be creative in all o.fthei.r ac- tivtties. Atthis after school pwgram, which is held every Wednes'day'from 4:3b p.m. to 6:30p.m., the children are as~ed to pring their completed: hp!!l~- .. , work and as a reward, they get hot chocolate. The program's goal is to en- farce self-esteem and self confidence in order for these children to lead a more happy and healthy life. •a••••••••••••••a•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• Miss Graham feels strongly about the COCOA program. She believes that it helps the younger community ·of Schenectady grow in a positive direction. Rachael also mentioned the need for the Union student body to become more ac- tive in the local community. She thinks that by getting involved in someone else's education, one could help make a better world and more successful people. This notion implies that College plays a major role educationally and, as a pres- tigious institution, we could all make a difference in this community. : Along with being active in . . . . . $2 OF.f PHOTOVtSION QAII'4embt<sS.. IIIEltcilllOX olt I No! V..&d lolilhilnloOim Otf11. :- ......... ·. ·- ... - ....... - ............ - ... -- .............. - .. - ... -: . . ~ $4~99 a X ·ao £NlARG£ME~rrs ~ . ' . • . . . ...... - .. - .... ·-· .. - ...... --- .. - .......... - ... .._. ............. - ............ , . . . • SO% OFF FilM PROCESSI~IG Club~.s ... ..,.EHu .. llx offt Not V.-t\hi>Any0ho.OII11, ' . . ................................................................... 1 041 State St. Schenectady NY 12301 (518)-382-5776 ·--------------·

'Qrlre arnu.cnrniem~is ' January 25, 1996 • Page 4 . Campus News Wet, Wild, and Muddy in Schenectady by Michelle R. Ellis News Editor The flood of '96 devastated Schenectady. The rain on Friday, Janu- ary 19, resulted in flash flooding, mud- slides, a death, and enormous property damages. The Schenectady Daily Gazette re- ported that 5 59· people were evacuated . from their homes and placed in shelters by the American Red Cross. At least sixty homes were destroyed, and over twohundred residences were damaged by the flood. The Assistant Chief of Police in Schenectady, Greg Kaczmarek, com- mented on the magnitude of the emer- gency in Schenectady over the weekend. \Shortly after six pm, a mud-slide oc- curred. The city has since requested state and federal funding to stabilize the hill. An army core of engineers will make a determination on the damages.\ Kaczmarek also stated, \There was a meeting held on Saturday the 20th be- tween the mayor, Congressman McNulty, and the city Assembly men to m(lp out a request for federal funding for the emergency. \ The mud-slide on Broad'\vay near I- 890 Friday evening took the life ofan Amsterdam man. According to the Schenectady Daily Gazette,· Thomas. B. Frank was filling his gas tank at the Tell Munch More Often vious years they, trie~:l to incorporate by Stephanje Slobotkin coffee houses: However, there was ~ittle Staff Writer · success in that area mostly because of ------------------ the lack of customers and various other Are you hungry? Does your stom- ach crave a satisfYing snack at strange hours ofthe day? Possibly between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and I :00 a.m.? If you are like many other Americans, these cravings for midnight snacks are very common. To satiate that hunger pang, Union's Rathskeller has changed it's hours and policies for the benefit of the student body and faculty. Ifyou find that ordering pizza and Chinese food have put a damper on your wallet, seek an alternative dining expe- rience. The Rathskeller has recently decided to change it's hours. Not only did itopen for those early risers, (from 8:30a.m. until 10:00 a.m.) offering an array of danish, muffins and coffee, but it also draws appeal to those who would like a meal other than that offered by the college dining halls. Instead of go- ing to West or Upper-class dining hall, for two meals you can go to the Raths- keller. The policy used to be that one could only use their declining balance at the Rathskeller, but now two meals are allowed to be used, declining from one's personal amount of meals per week. There are many reasons for this change in the Rathskeller. From a philosophical point of view, the Din- ing Services feel that the occupants of Union College should have social space and alternatives in all areas of living, including dining choices. The Dining Service felt the need to play a part in this social alternative, thus looking to the Rathskeller for the answer. In reasons. The Rathskeller seemed to be the perfect place to attract Union stu- dents and faculty. It offers an alterna- tive to fraternities and bars by provid- ing a comfortable atmosphere. With- out the hassle of trays and dining hall chaos, the Rathskeller can almost be considered an underground haven. It will now serve beer to those of age from 9:00 p·.m. to 12:00 a.m. oil Friday and Saturday nights. Also, the Rathskeller is a place unHke the college center or dining halls. With it's pinball machines and lively jukebox music, it appeals to those who want to socialize and inter- act with one another while they eat. Steven Pearse, Director of Dining Ser-- vices, comments, \If five people show up and talk, that's great.. .If one hun- dred and fifty people show up, that's a success too.\ He feels that the Raths- keller is a more comfortable and invit- ing place to eat. The people who work there are friendly and service oriented. There will be full time employees along with student employees working there. The Rathskeller is the underground getaway to eat, talk, or simply hang o:lli:. With it's new hours and menu begin- ning on January 26th, the Rathskeller is appealing in atmosphere as well as in dining. The late night Fridays and Saturdays from 9:00 p.m. until I :00 a.m. accommodate students' habits of crazy hunger. If you're not too busy on Friday night, I'll meet you there for a midnight snack. Oil Station when the mudslide began undermined and in a constant threat of from the steep bank above him. collapse and therefore causing severe Controversy has erupte9 within damage to nearby buitdings.\ Schenectady since Frank's· death. The Th~·processofaddressing responsi- Schenectady Daily Gazette reported that bil ity for the accidental death on Friday at least I 8 months previously the city evening is underway. According to the was aware ofthe dangers of the Btoa4- Schenectady Daily Gazette, fotrner way embanktnent. Apparently Peter Mayor Frank :bucci is blaming the acci- Jacobs, the owner of the Tel Oil Station, . dent:on th~City Ptd;>lic WprksCqmmis- hadwritten letters to city .officials in July sioner MUt0n G. Mitchell. Ducci claims of 1994 and again in AprU ·199'5 that after inspecting the: sight w:ith dicussing the hazards .of the steep hill Mitchel1overthe·sutnmet 1 Mitt;helhvas bank behind his property. On Monday, supposed to look into the matter. qur- January 22, the Schenectady DailyGa- rently, Ducci 's successor Albef\ P. zette ran apoqion of Jacobs 1994letter Jtirczynski is supporting Mitchell' sac- to the city. \'!;he embankment di~ectly · 'tions.Although tlie city ofSchenec4idy adjacent and to therearofmypr9p~rty ... is, c<mcemep with who is. at faul(for at 585 Broadway is being continually. Fr:ank~s qe~th, orie w.~nders what acti~ns · will be tak:ento preventfuturetraged!es. ~ j 21st Century (cont'd~ :· jective seems clear. The college will be expanding many of its housing optiohs within the next twenty years. Of course, \with theme houses; •llonors College, and townhouses available, the College will launch the systemic revitalization i:lf older housing, which by that time is ·likely to require a significiint reinvestment to compete With peer institutions, .and to uphold Union's, O)Vll sense of a well . maintained and functionally suitahle housing' stock\ (1996' Strategic Campus . Plan). This basically means that the dilapidated housing kno.wn as North and South coiJeges will be completely redone sometime in the early 21st century. Other important changes will be occurring on campus, but it is impos- sible to mention them all. One thing is for sure, though, the Union College we know today will be completely different in twenty years, just in time for most of our reunions. It is a daring and bold plan that will no doubt cost millions for the college but in the long run, if the college does not attempt to keep up with rival . institutions aJ1d the changing dynamics of higher education, Union will surely fall behind. ' UNION COLLEGE 1996 STRATEGIC CAMPUS PLAN Campus Plan Components & Change Sequence Jan. 16, 1996-Draft The following twenty five improvements have been identified for inclusion in the Strategic Campus Plan. The proposals envision qualitative changes in all aspects of the College's mission, but no growth in enrollments. The compo- nents are arranged in a probable order of implementation below~ and described in greater detail in the 1996 Campus Plan Report. 1. Honors College 2. CoJiege Relations- relocation to a single facility (site to be determined, possibly 36 .Union Avenue) 3. North ColJege renovation (interior and exterior) 4. Day Care Center renovation or new building on site 5. South College~ renovate as 21st century residence hall and begin phased renovation of all campus residence facilities. Examine additional housing alternatives. 6. Arts- Yulman Courtyard 7. Delta Phi- either renovation of existing structure or new 50 bed residence on the same site. 8. Residential Theme Houses - Lenox Road (east side) 9. Relocation of President's residence to Lenox Road 10. Nott-Seward parking lot -improvement and enhancement 11. Center for Innovative Learning 12. Campus design enhancement: including Science/Engineering courtyard, boundary fencing, gateways, benches, outdoor sculpture 13. Jackson's Garden Restoration and Enhancement to Nott Street 14. Acquisition of Devine Street property 15. Physical Plant relocation and Central Receiving and Storage 16. Achilles Rink (social and athletic) & possible adaptation for year round use I 7. Seward Place Housing for faculty and staff- Townhouses? 18. Bookstore relocation on new site 19. Reamer reconfiguration and Becker Admissions- minor redesign 20. Renovate Arts classroom (109) 21. Move faculty from 36 Union A venue to Humanities 22. Model interactive/technology classrooms (Humanities and Social Science) and phased revitalization of both buildings 23. Engineering buildings revitalization/renovation- Steinmetz and Butterfield 24. Music practice rooms and Art studios 25. Athletic facilities enhancements -Fieldhouse Upgrade -Bleachers upgrade, Bailey field -Alumni Gymnasium weight training facility * Bold type indicates new construction ; I I, I '

World: News ·-'I urvey··. o· ·I :· . . I , ·I· Lj~tpd· ~~!my ~rc. quc~Lions tha.t seck to dcf1nc w~crc the campus 1 .. l <;o~m~n.ity .stands .at the st~rt ~f the clccti,?n .. Plea~~ fill them .out I . l·~onestly so~b~t the Co~eordtcns•s can t;iomp1le your v1ews accurately. I Fodhis to·work, it is essential that everyone gets involved. We ask · ·I tl\~f ym(pl~asc return this questiomiire·ballot by February 1st, so that I · · . I the results can go in the :r0tlowing ·week ~s issue. we ask that you I - ;I respond. only once, so the results are nat skewed. Place your retumsin I . 1 Campus ·mail to Box 1'928: · I '(l(Ife Qr-~nc~~itiensis january 25, 1996 Page 5 The Golden Age has yet to Come byAnand Rao Contributing Writer , •. . . I I' · J,., Are you a: . 1 l : · · I A. Male .B. Female I' I I : A Student 13. Faculty. M<lmbcr I \Some People see things the way they are and ask, Why? I see things the way they can be and ask, Why not?\--Robert F. Kennedy .-·'I'· Year: (cirdlc one) ···99 '98 '97 '9ll I ·I: . ·• . : I 1· ... 2. Do you consi<.lcr yourself alan: 1 I I I A. Democrat I <\. t . ' :;\B:.Ind~pendeot ; ~- · : : ·· ·. \':C. Republican ~ D. Other: _______ . .1 . , ::1 . r I J :3. At which end of the spectrum are you? I I .. 1 • • . • • • I 1 ,A: Very Lil?e~ai,,,B. ~ibe,ral C.Moder.ately t;..i~eral·. I· I I l , D.· .Mod~ia~~·~tNpderately Conservativ~ F .. Con~ervative I I G. Very Conservative I I I I 4. What five issues are most important to you in the next election? I 1 Circle them and put a number, l being your top choice and 5 I Newt Gingrich, the Speaker ofthe House of Representatives, was recently named man of the year by Time magazine. Al- though one may not be an ad- . mircr of Speaker Gingrich, his influence over first~tenn Repub- lican representatives in Congress made him the most influential American politician.ofl995. For a politician, Gingrich is an un- usual man; he docs not even hat-:e · a law degree. As a college stu- dent at Emory University, Gingrich majored in history and wrote his senior thesis on educa- tion in the Belgian Congo from 1945 to 1960. Gingrich's publi- cized love of wild animals and 1 being your fifth choice, by each to indicate the order in which 1 I you rank your preferences. I technology, among other things, further distinguish him from the I A Abortion Pro choice ·B. Abortion Pro l~fe y· A'f?e D.Bosnia ~ dull and tiresome crowd in Wash- 1 ing~~ni, D.C. , · · ' '' .> I E. Budget deficit F. Character G .. Crime H. Education I As a man who ta~es p.dde in I f being different from the rest, I l Economy J. Leadership K. Ideology L. ~I11egal Drugs I Speaker Gingrich has proclaimed I I himself the leader of a Republi- 1 M. Illegal Immigration N. Medicare 0. Medicaid 1 can Revolution which aims to I · · · · J reverse what social conscrvati ves I 1'. Middle East Peace Q. NATO expansion R. Other Entitlements I sec as the dcclineofmorality and .I ·\•'~-' ' · · · 1 good taste in America. TheRe- t· S. ~cho~~ p~~t.~~~l ~TAR. \Y ~~~ 1\'fi~sij~,Dcfei)Se (smaller scaJe) I publicans in Congfess frown I U. Supreme Court nominees· · v: Tfade ~s: Economic Nationalism 1 upon the social IJpheavals which 1 ~ · · 1 - haveshaken our co,t.mtry since th~. 1 W. Welfare X Whitewater ·y r Engrigerilent'vs. Jsofationi'sm' · · I l-9.60s, and they wish to bring I , · -. 1 · America back to what they see as z Oth its Golden Age. For Republicans, I · er: ( . . . 1 •i).:. ,, . . .••.•..• • 1 i this is the age when divorce rates ' :l:•t;~'l.~~~~.i~ t!9im~:~·Qe~~~r.J9b? ;, ·~· I ~:~ea~:;g~:~~rfc:~~~~~~.~~~ 1 A Congressional Republican Majority I when .women were housewiv~s. I B. President Clinton I For Newt Gingrich and Bob Dole, .( • ,.. , 1 . C. Und_ecided 1 the years preceding ·the chaos of I 1 the 1960s might be called the I 6. To which statement w~uld you mos~ agree with? I 'good old days. I 1 My hope is that the educated a) The Federal government is I: people ~f my gen.eration .look 1 1 upon th1s Repubhcan attJtude A too centralized. I I ' w. ith skep.ticism. because anyone I B. not doing enough fQr people. · · with an awareness of the past I c. is doing too much ror people. 1 . · ought to know that there has I D. 15 fine the way it is r.ight now. I never been a Golden Age for the I Other: E. I people ofthe United States. 'The I good old days,' so fondly remem- 1 bered by Gingrich, Dole, and re- I actionaries like Senators Jesse 1 Helms and Strom Thurmond, 1 were not very good days for 1 women, blacks, Asians, Hispan- 1 ics, homosexuals, or communists. I Contrary to what Newt Gingrich I and the Christian right may be- l I ieve, morality and a sense ofjus- b) A tax cut should be A. small and only directed at the middle class. B. large enough to spur economic growth. C. suspended while the budget impasse still is unresolved. D. applied toward the middle and upper class because that is where real growth can be maximized. E. spread across the board. F. Other: _______________ . c) Will the budget be balanced? 1 tice were sorely lacking in the United States at that time. I I All of this changed in the 1 A. when there isa Republican in the White House. 1 1960s. Through media exposure, I B. when Gingrich's 73 Freshman Republicans get offtheir 1 Americansweregiventheoppor- 1 c. \~~~~~~~~~\makes further concessions. I tunity to observe the sickness at I o. Other:. . . . I the core of their nations being. ~-~------------------~ rn Birmingham, Alabama in 1963. Americans saw white po- lice officers prey upon peaceful black demonstrators with teargas and attack dogs. In Mississippi in 1964, Americans learned about three civil rights workers who were brutally murdered by white suprctnacists. Before the decade was over, a young mili- tary officer by the name of Will- iam Calley became notorious for his leading role in the My Lai massacre tllat took place in South Vietnam in 1968. Until the rude awakening of the 1960s, most Americans were blinded by their ignorance, their patriotism, and their sense of greatness. Ever since that tumultuous decade, Americans have been made ~w:ar~ of a great -· ' ' deal of unpleasant persons, situations, and events throughout their country. We have learned . the truth about .devious and . . . , dupl icitou.s men I ike Henry Kissinger 1 J. Edgar Hoover, and .Senator Joseph McCarthy; En- ergy and time have been devoted to eliminating the racism, sex- ism, homophobia, xenophobia, and anti-semitism which largely characterized our society up un- .til about thirty years ago. Be- cause our country has m~de so much progress over the last three decades in creating a more toler- ant and more just society, one can argue that American society is in better shape today than ever be- fore. Ofcourse, there is still room for a great deal of improvement in American society. The level of violence, facilitated by the wide availability of guns in our coun- try, is intolerable. The national political scene is still dominated by white men of privilege and wealth. Ofthe 535 members of Congress, less than ten percent are female. The President of the United States, the Vice-President, the Secretary of State, the Secre- tary of Defense, the Speaker of the House, and the Majority and Minority Leaders of both houses of Congress are all white males. There remains a formidable glass ceiling which prevents females from climbing the corporate lad- der. The few women in this coun- try who do have political power (Janet Reno, Hillary Clinton, etc.) are, partially because of their gen- der, among the most hated pub- lic tigures in American history. Despite all I have just said, the America of 1996 is infinitely bet- ter than the America of 1956. Today there is a greater sense of awareness that our country is flawed, and there are many people outtherewho wish to rec- tify those flaws. Speaker Gingrich and his colleagues •. de- spite being educated and intelli- gen~ are unwisely nostalgic about an ideal America which never ex- isted. Before the introduction of Medicare and Medicaid, before the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and ' . . · 't 'h' e . Voting Rights Act of 1965, . ( . ~'~~and before the .1 ' return of fern i- ~ nism in the late 1960s, American society was aggres- sively hostile or in- ) difterent to millions of suffering people. Rather than trying to bring America back to an era that never was, our political leaders ought to be paving the way for a Golden Age which has yet to come.

World: * Chechen rebels hijacked a ferry on the Black Sea and took the staff of a Russian electrical station to fight against the Rus- sian attack. * The village of Pervomayskoye, where Chechen rebels were also hold- ing hostages, was leveled by Russian forces .. Some accounts say that a significant portion of rebels escaped with the help of Chcchcns who slipped across the border from Chechnya. * The Bosnian Government will hire American military of- ficers to teach basic skills and more advanced tactics. This is vital to the withdrawal of NATO in a year because the Bosnian Muslims will be bet- ter able to defend themselves. * Sophisticated teams of intel- ligence officials have been us- ing every means available to assist Operation Joint En- deavor, the Implementation Force mission in Bosnia. Rus- sian intelligence is also work- ing within the group. * Tl1e Three Gorges Dam, which when built can curtail the flood powers ofthe Yangtze River in Central China, shows early cracks. This project is ex- periencing other problems from environmentalists to economic factors in the relocation of people living in the area where the dam is to be erected. * Former President George Bush said he miscalculated the political survival ability ofhis enemy, Saddam Hussein. He further said that he believes that Saddam will be overthrown by his own people. The miscalcu- lation was also in reference to the Kurds' and Shiites' revolts, where Saddam Hussein used his battered military to crush the revolts. Elements of the army, sympathetic to the re- volts, rallied around Saddam when there was no sign of United States assistance. *The first installmentofequip- ment for the construction of light water reactors to North Korea left South Korea. This was part of the I 994 agreement which stated that oil and two light water reactors would be delivered to the North in ex\ change for the dismantling of the South's nuclear weapons program. * Juan Garcia Abrego, who was on the F.B.I.'s Ten Most Wanted Fugitives list last March, is now in United States custody. Mr. Abrego, arrested by Mexican authorities, is among the top drug traffickers in Mexico. The corrupt and criminal empire he built is es- timated at $10 billion. Mr. Abrego held dual citizenship in both the United States and Mexico. * Infectious diseases are said to be on the rise by Health of- ficials, citing the increasing ability ofthcsc diseases tore- sist antibiotic treatments. * Weknowthat the Universe, includes 40 billion more gal- axies, due to photographs re- ceived from the Hubble Space Telescope. Nation: *The United State's statutory debt ceiling of$4. 9 trillion will be raised to meet financing obligations in February said Congressional Republicans. · No plan is setforeither the debt ceiling or avoiding another partial government shutdown. G.O.P.Ieaderssaid a shutdown wouJd not happen aga,in. l ' ' ' • : •' • t ~ !\' * TJ1e government is operating on continuing resolutions for the l 996 fiscal year, and Mr. Clinton is required by law to submit his budget request for 1997 11scal year in a couple of weeks. The budget negotia- tions over tax and entitlement and discretionary spending are holding up the I 997 budget. Unless 1996 budget is worked out, 1997 is problematic. There are ways to fold 1996 into the 1997 budget within the balanced budget plan said GOP leaders. * The Iowa Caucus, for years dominated by organization and appeal in the state, is seeing a media advertisement blitz, which some analysts say may rewrite the rules of winning the Iowa Caucus. * Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman was sentenced to life in prison for plotting the bombings pnd assassinations, as part of a ter- ror war against the United States to force the end of sup- port tor Israel and Egypt. . His nine codefendants were also sentenced to lengthy terms. *The U.S. trade gap narrowed again in October, to $8.04 bil- lion from $8.25 billion. With the economic slump in Europe and Japan, there could be calls for a strengthening of the dol- lar to assist these economic conditions. - Sa,lman Rushdie con- . . dcmncd author to die by re- ligious decree ofthc late Ira- nian leader, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khorneini, was in New York talking on \Donahue\ and making pub- lic appearances on his book tour. Mr. Rushdie has been in hiding since his book, The Satanic Verses was pub- lished in the mid-eighties. - City workers are racing against the trash. The bliz- zard that pounded New York and the East coast has im- peded the collection of gar- bage. - Mayor Giuliani consoli- dated New York City's emergency preparedness functions into a single Office ofEmergency Management that reports directly to him. Before, the police depart- ment coo.rdinated weather and public safety emergen· cics. -The Clinton Administration policy of \Don't Ask, Don't Tell, Don 'tPursue\ in regard to homosexuals in th<; mili- tary is being tested ·in a f(:d- eral appeals court in Manhat- tan. A lawyer for six soldiers said the rule violated the First Amendment, and the equal protection clause·ofthe Four- teenth Amendment. -Close to 2,000 AT&T em- ployees nationwide lost their jobs as part of the companies plan to reduce the worldwide work force by 48,500. The company had been an ap- plauded example ofjob.secu- rity. - Campaign managers for Bob Dole of Kansas have ·charged that Steve Forbes' aides had doctored petitions to get on the ballot for the New York primary. By rais• ing the matter in court, the Bob Dole campaign is fol- lowing in the tradition of fi·ont ... runners. · - Christopher R. Lyn,n, the city's chief tax\i regulator~ wants all cabs to have auto- mated record-ings to warn passengers not to leave their belongings. . , -A criti~al report by the Pub•, lie Advocate's omce said tl)at . over the course of 18 montbs,,, between 1994 :and 1995f 45; , .· children in New Ymk City:'· ; diedr in cases in which the' city''s child welfare agency faHed to conduct the proper· investigations or supervisiott: J 4 ., Gaol) E.VtN •NG Wctf\lTt\'1 , AMeF,.IC.f\l't<), .. ... SoM~1iM~S · l. ~ct&~t\ 1l\e_ J\fo\CU\'\ l \ M\S~\'> 'fou~ l i\ofe. \foU\L C:.itLL ~e. <;e~tF.ouS WtTI\ 'fouR ~ufYo~\ ,._,,1, ...... '• \\ I . . . iA~~S.:. \fou <.A:N A.LWA'fS R~GRe1 ll\e .At\outt\ L~T~RI . '- .. ~1 r ' I\ J

Should You Be A11 RA? by: E. W. Abbott, III . R.A. North .College As a Resident Assistant, you find yourself in many interesting situations. From .the horrifyin~, drug abuse and sexual assault, to the mundane, roommate contl icts and noise co~plaints, to the silly, someone's doset shelf collapsing from the weightoftheir designer sweaters, they are all represented. The Residence Halls ar.e a place of many emotions and interac- tions and as a RA you are privy to much of it. It is the sharing process that makes this such a wonoerful experience. So, why should you become a RA? Well, I did for a number ofreasons(in no particularorder,justlike my think\ ing); I) The chance to be an individual whd actually docs something for others, 2) The single, 3) The great learning experience, 4) It looks impressive on a resume, 5) It was a great opportunity to learn more about myself and my frailties, and toconstru.ctively deal with them,and 6) A diance to live, work, andre- lax with some truly wonderful in- dividuals, my_ floor from last year (Davidson Dungeon), and Wells House: my building from this yeat (Raymond North). While these reasons may not be right for you, they were impor- tant enough to me to write this article. The great people make the job fun. The staff at Resi- dence Life is wonderful and sup- portive .. The other RAs are less your co-workers and more your friends. AU l can say about my residents is that they are the best, and I know I will have a fun time with them around. They are just like the rest ofthe campus, bright, able, good-natured individuals, hut only more so.. The lltct that we have a pong table in the lounge, built by the residents, or resident, attests to this. I enco.urage everyone to think about becoming a RA. The infor- mation sessions are Jan. 23 and 28 in Old Chapel at4pm. You can receive an application here, and leam a little about what it's like to a RA, plus you get mock the cur- rent RA • s and put them on the spot with embarrassing questions like, Aren't you only doing this for the rnoney? Connect WithY our Community by Jeffery Druzba Staff Writer Tl1e winter term can be the busiest of the year for most students. A depressing time of the year when the hours of day- 1 ight arc devoted to classes and the early sunsets lead to the feeling that one should be go- ing to bed by 5 PM. Through all that we do to keep busy during the year, we. end up finding ourselves so caught up in our lives at Union that the thought there mi-ght be a world outside disappears. There is an outside world and it could use your help. Wells House offers a unique ! P:rogram at Union College. They present ways to get ·in- volved with the local comrim- nity that don6t restrict the life of a college student. One of the Wells House programs works closely with Zoller School, a local elementary school. The OOne On One6 program with Zoller is uniq~e in that, after Union and Zoller students ate paired, they are allowed to handle the rest! What happens is simple: Union students in- volved in the program spend time with their Zoller student at least once a week after school, for at least an hour. Students are free to visit places of local in• tcrcst and to participate in any activity the two creative minds involved can come up with. If you canOtlivc without meeting more than once a week, then so be it. The Zoller and Union stu- dents work well together and both have fun. House members as well as others at Union also participate in a variety of other projects from Meals On Wheels to ser- vice on UnionOs own campus. For more information about the OOne On One6 program, or to find out what Wells House can do for you, please call Sanjeev atx6707. Wells House suits in- terests of every sort. If you have questions or ideas for get- ting involved with Wells House, please give us a call or stop over anytime, -Getting involved with Wells House gets you involved with the community. 1f'? 3 ~~· Cal/ ff.e 1 R ~ at\.J f. at\,1 \f real fa~f. Introducing TeleFile from the IRS. If you are single and filed Form 1040EZ last yea,r, you can file your tax return in ten minutes by phone. Anytime. Check your tax booklet for information. S\....&l DQpartment of the Treasury ft/1111 internal Revenue Service Changing for good. ITeleFile It's free. It's fast. It works. 'QJ:lp! Cfl:~n~udrierp;is ~ .Ja~ftr.y 25,J99,6, •:.Pflge, 7 · · . ' ' Extending Their Horizons: Richmond Gets a Grant for Museum Series by: Kathy Walter StaffWriter About three months ago, their was an educational grant made available to students by Professor Suzanne Benack. In- dividuals and groups were given the opportunity to apply for up to $500 to fund ongoing pro- grams which would add to the intellectual life at Union College. In order to increase the involve- ment of faculty in this process, the grant required that a protes- sor or group of professors lead the program. When the grant was announced, Residence l.ilc c.xplaincd that it was a great opportunity lor RAs to get some extra money for large programs that there just is no money for. Because RAs have to write ap~ provals for all programs that we do, it seemed that we were per- fect candidates for getting the funds. • As a Head RA in Richmond/ North, I saw this grant as a per- fect opportunity to do a long tcm1 program with .the residents of one of my buildings. The pre- liminary idea was a trip to New York City for a day of museum tours (and a little sight-seeing, of course). However, the grant preferred the program to be more long term. So, I brainstormed the idea to see a number of museums in the Al- bany area during winter and spring term, then having a final trip (sort of as incentive for ~he other trips) to NYC. But which museums? What professors would possibly be interested? Would I have enough informa- tion to apply tor the grant? A fellow RA directed me to Professor Charles Steckler's of- fice. He and I got together a number of names of professors and possible museums. A ftcr that, things snowballed! All of the museums in Albany that I called were very interested in the program and sent me tons of information about collec- tions, shows and educational programs that they had. Pro- fessor Theresa Meade gra- ciously offered to lead the trip to New York City (which will include tours of the Frik, the Met and probably the Museum of Modern Art and a discussion/ slide show to serve as an infor- mation session before the group goes) and a number of other professors have also offered to lead tours. The museums that are be- ing looked into include the Em- pire Museum, the New York State Museum, the Albany In- stitute of History and Art, Al- bany Center Galleries, and the Schenectady MuseumandPian- etarium. We will also be going as a group to the Pamela Parlapiano exhibit and artist's reception in February (which is going to beheld in Union's own museum located in the Arts Building). My hope is that this pro- gram will provide an opportu- nity for the residents of Rich- mond to meet professors. to sec u lew tlf the many muse- tuns in the Big Apple ru1d to I cam about some of the cultural op- portunities in Albany and here at Union. If the program works on a small scale perhaps it can be picked up by a group with a larger budget and expanded to the entire Union College com- munity. In order for this to be completely successful, though, I would like more interested professors to take part. If you have an interest in any of the above museums, their exhibits, or in other museums (even if it is not something that you teach about) please contact me at x588l. BE LESS PRODUCTIVE AT THE OFFICE. c§he office has always been are some simple ways you can brushing your teeth or a place to get ahead. produce less waste at -washing your face, don't let the Unfortunately. it's work. When frucet run. Remember, if we also a place where a lot of natural only make the It takes 95% less =rgy to mam!fll{ture resources start products from ruyded materials. copies you to f.ill behind. 1ilke a look need. Use both sides of the around the next time youre at paper when writing a memo. work, See how many Turn off your light when you leave. Use a lower watt bulb when people in your lamps. Drink your leave. See how coffee or tea Ulf both sides cf the paper out of when writing a memo. much paper is being wasted. How much mugs electticity is being used to instead of run computers that are lefi: throwaway on. Look at how much rups. Set up a water is being wasted in the recycling bin for restrooms. And how much aluminum cans solid waste is being thrown and one for bottles. out in the trash cans. And when you're in We bet it's a lot Now, here the bathroom ITS A CONNECTED WORLD. DO YOUR SHARE. 1!11· A PubllcSoNice of mru This Publlcallon use rewer resources today. we 11 Which would Drink out o/ mugs truly be a job instead of throwaway cups. well d one. FOR MORE INFORMATION AND ITPS CAlL l-800-MY-SHARE Every ton if paper not lam!filled saves 3 cubic yards if space. -~··Earth Share

OP/ED 'mite Clioncnrl\icusis • January .z·s, 19.96 • Page 8 ' . .. - EDITORIAL • ~· t ,.,.:·:·, ··, ' t '), :,-:•: ~ ·;J - ' A Small Question and Answ-er Session Q: Why is Homophobia tolerated at Union? ·A: Because Union students, as a group, lack the sexual n1aturity and security to accept behavior that is different. • · · · Q: Why is the Homosexual Community at Union so quiet? A: See the above answer. Q: Why is Union a place which harbors anti,..intellectualisiri7. ., A: I don'tknow ... Let'sgetdrunkand party! Q: Why tolerate racism? A: Because rt is easier to dismiss as evil something or someone you don't know than it is to confront openly the differences tliat exist as a practical aspect of the real world. I fwe expect Union to be a seriously ~ompetitive college into the next millennium, we will have to get into step with the times. When ' ' most colleges are embracing diversity, we arc discussing and a~ver- tising it, but, at the same time, not doing much to promot~ it We have to start creating an environn1ent where people fro'tn di- verse cultures will feel comfortable at Union. !he current situation at Union is not conducive to attracting ,u'inorities or people froin di- verse backgrounds. Such an environment, which has been breeding confonnity,can only be a weakness in the fut.ure. · · .. , As the outside world becomes increasing,IY, tnult!-cultunil1n its nature, it will beconie n10reand more import~~ (for P,eople €?nt~ring the job inarketto have the ability to function~n ':(diverseworkplace. Union students will not be able to enter such a situation comfortably if Union does not find a way to attract stude~ts);i-om different l>ack- grounds. This will be a weakness which will hinder the competitive success of Union in the near future . - - . . - OP~ED -. . . _ The Stude11t New~pttper of Ulli()ll ~~~~' College Since 1877 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Evan L. Morris, Anthony C. LaVecchia EDITORS-IN-CHIEF Michelle Ellis NEWS EDITOR Larry Paska ARTS EDITOR Adam Richman LAYOUT EDITOR Rick Lederer LaureiRuma PHOTO EDITORS Stephanie Kuehn COPY EDITOR Eric Svenson Jonathon Fader SPORTS EDITORS Matthew Sandler WORLD NEWS EDITOR Peter So.rensen . FEATURES EDITOR Lisa Lemoi EXECUTIVE EDIT9R David Eder Chris Richards LIVING EDITORS Dennis Popeo SCIENCE EDITOR Tatiana Cogevina COMPUTER MANAGER Jared Richman · CARTOONIST Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR Raquel Millman OPINIONS EDITOR PHOTOGRAPHERS: Scott Druckemiller, Laurie Kirschner. Shaun-Paul Manore. STAFF: Omar Al-Khalidi, Pavan Athiri, Emily Battis, JeffDruzba, .Jon Gasthalter, Nalini Gupta, Mike Lelling, Adrian MacLean, Conor McKenzie Martin Metz, Bhavani M~uri, Aileen Quigly, Kathy Walters The EleVen Percent Who·M'ake It --. _n_a_q-uc_l_l\_·l-il-lm-an----:-, . hin1/he~ later ili·i;}~)l~c~·~an ~pve,,_,~i~o~l4·._~~iJFin.~·~,·~'1P.FC· Opilrioll:t Editor really conquer .al~? ~etc, .... , , 1 , :, r, ,Dqr .p,e~r$, J9P.k. at, u~ .w,ith ThosB, th,(\t·&tttY~-~.h}Vith)P~~-\= ·an,aU•kn9:wing f'l've he~d . We believed them when gan the journey. Although, it this before\ look on-:their they said it V'.ould be di-ffer- didn'tseerJil:likemuchotajour,... ~ {aces.,,Some think we're ent, when they talked of · ney-in the. beginning.· lt:was · naive:Theeighty•nineper- transfers. and \vhen theysaid more like a self-guided tour· centcoridescendirrgly 1 s'ay, we'd change; however, through helL We cried. We \lhat's how I felt'too:; .·. when they spoke of the sta- moped. w~ ate ridiculous . b~fore_w~ bro~e u~.li ··. · .. tistic. we closed our ears. Of atno,unts of food one day. and · 1 ~ri] writjng thi~a~icle course,. this reference is to starved o~rselvcs the next. Qur ·' · forthfe, eieven p~rce~(Wp.o the cver .. dreaded, cver-popu- pltone-bills soared. We won- mak~ lt •. I know it sounds Jar Long-Distance .. -.elation- dcred if we were doing the \ri.ght .sifly arid hopeless, naive,~d ship, and the .. eleven percent tl1ing.\ immature. Love is a pow- who make it.\ At this point, there was erfulthing. No one should Many of us, willing or not aboutfiftypereentofus.still with ever underestimate its willing, fell hopelessly in love Cupid's arrow through our heart. power. It has defeated the with someone outside of the We made friends. We visited obstacle of distance. While Union campus. Perhaps it the significant other. We started we may be hundreds of was a high school sweet· tosmilemoreandhurtless,even miles away from the one heart, ora summer fling that thoughourphone-billscontinued we love, they still seem to never fad-xl, but no matter to soar. We grew confident that be so close. Although where f.ey came from, he or we could handle this. Some of Cupid's arrow stings some· she is not here now. We were us grew too confident and happy times, we hold on, fornoth- faced with an uncomfortable with our new life and with great ing is as sacred as what we situation that wrenched our difficulty made the decision to choose to love. However hearts. We stayed up late at remove the arrow. They said naive it may seem to most, night. We had painful talks. good-bye to their first love and there is nothing rational We fought with family mem- eventually found a second. about what we feel. So to bcrs because they didn't un- We arc now left with the fa- the eleven percent who are dcrstand. We wrestled with 111ous eleven percent of which I in this with me, I empathize various emotions and ideas: I am a part. We stil-l hurt. We and applaud for yo~. Re- don 't want to be held back, I still cry. We still question. We member, if everyone lived don't want to hold him/her still make a tremendous contri- by what their. heart lold back, I don't want to be mis- but ion to AT&T each month. them to<lo, the worlcfwould erable, I don!t want to lose Some people think_ that we'r~ be a much kinder place. · him/her, why couldn't I meet crazy. Our fam~l~ t~liriks .we· .·

;~ 'C~!f~,( • .'2: • ~\t.·K)-l} ~ , '.:P··\'( \\\ :./'*_\fro~•\<' t ,\' ~ N-\ .... ;.{ ••• -.,\\~'J;~' ., ~f. \ ~ • • \ • I • ' Page 9 ·. Jamfa'r)' 2'5; · 1995 • 'mqt Cltnu.citrbie-usis OP/ED - . .. . . . . . . ' - . - . . · · Letters · · . . _ . · G.r.eek and Distinct? Comics·· Funny'' To .tl1e Editor, • • • \After all, the very ideaofbeing.a mem- fourorso Greek societies dominate the .life ber a (;:t fraternity or a sororfty confers dis- ofthe c:;:am pus. The Greeks claim that they tinction: I ain a metnber and you arc not., offer a social Ji tc to tile cam pus and per- This is a quote from an article by William haps they do. The problem is, though, that Simon published in last week's .thereisnotanalternativeagendaforthe Concordiensis. Mr. Simon proceedsto say people who. do not drink on a regular basis. that without distinction, \everyone wili be People claim that \there's stuff to do be- the same, no onewill he different and aU sides go to frat parties .. ,\ and that there Will exist on a dumped-d'own, COIT11110n . would be more \stuff to do\ ifthc Admin· leveL\ istr~tion backed Independents the way lam not a Greek, however, unlike Mr.. they' support the Greeks. Simon, I believe that people can be distinct Simon's claim that without Greek.distinc- and unique without joining a Greek soci- tion ''all will exist on a dumped-down, com- ety. If anything it seems that the dr<;ek · mon level'' .is absurd and insulting. I nde- organizations tend to encourage confbr- pcndcntsccrtainTy arc not \common but mityand sameness. no one is. Simon implies that Greeks are Whether it is \politically correct\ or not, soinchow better than Independents. That the Greek system is elitist; it .is archaic and is.obviously wrong; behavior like Simon's especially at Union, it is a tradition that is makes iteasy to accuse Greek societies .of 'harmful and needs to be reevaluated. I am being elitist. Being in a certain society not proud to say that I attend a school that should not promote a feeling of superiority is \the Mother of all Fraternities.\ 1 wince and a distinction that puts others down. just saying that ridiculous phrase. The Political correctness is a term that people Greek system has created an atmosphere I ike Mr. Simon usc to blame their problems at Union that encourages partying and for- on when they can't point a finger at any- gets academics, We all like to have a good ove specifically. (ime, with or without alcohol. Unfortu- \I am am ember~ and you are not.\ That's nately, Union's reputation as an academic correct Mr. Simon, I am an Independent, institution has been superseded by its and you arc not. party school characteristics. With a popu- Sincerely,, lation of only 2,000 students, the twenty-. Laurel R.T. Ruma Campus Action Voices Remembering a King by Verdina Washington Contributing Writer I l~w m~ny students fhflowcd a daily routine of rushing to their mailboxes not knowmg that Monday, January 15th. was a holiday? From what I had witnessed there were quite a few since to many students Monday was just another day. But a select few who knew their history, and that ofthe·United States, paid homage to a revered man. At Union an esoteric audience attended the Martin Luther King Jr. Observance. The turn out was humiliating. Kingwasarnan who not only fought for the civil rights of African-Americans, but one who sought for justiceand equality for all. Dan West, V .P. for College Relationshere at Union, and one·ofthe speakers ofthe program stated, \Ther~ ~renotenough African-AmeFicans and other racial and ethnic groups here at _ ; Union. tha,t will help enrich tJ:te stu~ent. and faculty body.\ This is very true, but it . w?uld be bett~r to say, \I wilf try to do something about this or bring the issue up at ' : t~~ riext ooard 1r1eeting\ rather than stating an evident f~ct. It is high time that some- ~ 1 'b·fle really address this issue~ or within the next decade,' Union will be colorless. : 1 '' It was very disappoiilting ~o see ihat the \expected\ minority, namely African- \· Atner~0ans andmembers.ofthe clergy, turned out to this event. King had a dream, but evidently that dream has died in the hearts and minds of young Americans here at . Union. None of the classes I attended on Monday discussed, mentioned, or acknowl- •• 1 edg~d Dr. King. Despite Union's.short•t-ermmemory la~se,theprogram was a success. : During the program members ofthe ~Jn ian Co liege clergy focused on King's incorpo- . . ration of religion in the Civil Rights Movement Excerpts from one of King's Binning- ~mn~jailletters, written to clergymen o.fthc time, had inspired them to b,ccomc involved mthe struggle for equality. A video was shown entitled,\ Legacy of a Dream,\ which recapped the movelilcnt and the life of King. The highlight.ofthc program was Lcs Caner. Carter represented the New York State Martin Luther King Jr. Commission and Institute for Nonviolence. He summarized the day's eve1its and what the day actually meant by stating, \We should become a citizen in Dr. King's beloved community.\ In reviewing .January 15th, it felt I ike just another day with an hour and a half commemoration for a great man. Why must we wait until January 15th to honor Dr. King? We should be honorilig and thanking him each day in hopes of keeping his dreal'n alive. King stated, \Hatred and bitterness can never cure the disease of fear· only love can do that. Hatred paralyzes life; love releases it Hatred confuses life; lov~ harmonizes it. Hatred darkens I He; love illuminates.\ As long as there is ignorance and hatred in the world, King's dream can never fully come to pass. In order to bring cha1]ge in this society, we must first change the way people think. So Union, do not sleep on the dream . .l ., ALTERNATrVE POWER ROCKS! so doe · 89.7 WRl:J Schenectady! -~----------- --- To The Editors: There .J was, eager to read the first issue of the Concordy in the new winter tenn. My excitement was fi·othing over the edges ofthe crock pot that I call my daily existence at Union. My, what a pleasant surprise though ... A new comics section full of all my favorite one panel kneeslappers from the back pages of The Enquirer and Star. Maybe, if all ofus loyal Concordy readers get together and collectively beg, you might run Family Circus. I'm a big fan of the ones where the artist draws an overhead view of the city or the backyard, and the dotted black line traces little Billy's travels fora whole day. He comes back home and Mom, who never opens her mouth in that strip, stands in the kitchen with her arms folded while Billy says, \There's nothing todo around here.\ The big punch line ofthat one being that he did a lot, but kids will be kids. No, I would rather not set my eyes upon that panel. Rather, give us all that we wantto read for comics: Old reruns ofCalvin and Hobbes, old Far Sides, old reprints ofthe timeless JRW series (you know that one- Jared Richman's World). Dilbert, Garfield. Standards of our time. And don't for a minute fhink thnt 'Ask Shagg' would be nice, as if you would be giving that a serious thought, because ifl sec one more <>fthose that is prelitced with the usual \Today I would like to present another member of my family tree\ line, I'm going to be sick. An illustration of some dog, or whatever Shagg is supposed to be, dressed up as George Washing- ton with the caption saying that the name ofthis dog is Shagg E. Cherrytree and his big claim to fame is that he urinated on the tree that legend tells us George cut down as a child is simply not very captivating. We are college students as I know the editors ofthe Concordy are. If it pleases you, be alternative in any way you want, just don't mess with our comics. My apologies if the situation has already been rectified since my reading of last Thursday's issue. I am truly sorry to have taken precious opinions space that could have been better appropriated to the usual winter term editorials and letters about Greeks, independents, and why we all can't just get along but, point now made, I think the necessity is clear to bring this item to your attention before the comics situation gets out of hand. Sincerely, Jeffery Druzba A reader who cares Forbidden Fruit . It is difficult for the dilettante to put \decorum\ and \hockey\ in the same sentence without feeling self-con- scious, yet I write in hopes oflinking thc..r.;c two conccpl'i. Specifically, I am appealing to the instinct for good sportsmanshipwithin the Union com- munity and asking that everyone re- frain from throwing oranges (or any- thing else) on the icc during hockey games. My primruy concern is for the safety of players and fans who could be injured, but I am also aware that the practice is offensive to many and diminishes their esteem for the Col- iegeandthestudentbody. I am told that what is probablymeant as a show of support, has the negative effect of disrupting the Union team's effort pre- cisely at a moment when they gain criti- cal momentum. Finally, there is the distressing consequence of disciplin- ary action for miscreants who arc caught. I recognize that hockey games arc an important community event for hun- dreds of students and appreciate the spirited enthusiasm ofthe fans. I have great confidence in the creativity of Union students and have no doubt that they can come up with clever and ap- propriatealtematives that will not put others at risk or disrupt the game . Sincerely, Frederick Alford Dean of Students .. l } ·• ; .j

· Page 10 January 25, 1996 'mqt <!Inn.tnr.hl~si!l T-he Screening Room by Lawrence Paslw, Arts Ecditm· Eye For an Eye: Sally Field is Stuck in TV Movieland \Eye For an Eye. \ Starring Sally Field, Ed Harris, Kiefer Sutherland. Directed by John Schlesinger. Rated R, Paramount Pictures. Rating: * * (out -of four) Bob Dole Beware!: yet an- other prominent figure of the entertainment industry has de- cided to promote violence by brandishing a weapon on a movie poster. As if two Os- carsweren't enough for her, Sally Field is seen looking all tough and sophisticated by pointing a gun in the poster to her new film, Eye For an Eye, and looking at this sight makes one want to laugh. Sally Field ... the true \last ac- tion hero?!\ What has this world come to? Field plays a working-girl who calls home on her way from the office to check on the preparations for her youngest daughter's birthday party. Her other daughter answers the phone, but then the door- bell rings, and it's trouble that's calling. Field hears her daugh- ter being raped an killed by an intruder, and is powerless to help her. When she rushes home, the police have blocked off the house, and every parent's nightmare becomes her reality: her child was senselessly~murdered, and the killer is unknown. Together, Field and her hus- band (Ranis) seek police help, and. when a detective (Joe Mantegna) catches a suspect (Sutherland), the courts end up letting the killer go on a technicality. This enrages the mother, who decides to take the law into her own hands - with the help of a vigilante bunch she meets at a support group meeting. Eye For an Eye is essen- tially the TV Movie of the Week, with some enhanced dialogue and action to spread the film thin into a I OS~ minute running time. The script is nothing more than aDanielle Steel novel without the weepy emotion: for all the bad luck the family seems to have with the justice system, only Field seem~ to be shedding a genu- ine tear. For this is the essen- tial problem of the film: Har- ris, as the murdered daughter's stepdad, looks like he landed on the wrong planet from Apollo 13- he shows no affection whatsoever. Sutherland is just aboringand cliched bad guy. The story never explains what caused him to be so malicious and perverted; director Schlesinger merely drowns us in examples ofhow bad the bad guy really is (pouring hot coffee on a dog, urinating on someone's lawn). This ap- parent attempt at style reminds theviewerthatthere is no sub- stance underneath it. Fortunately, Field does give a credible performance, with a puffy red nose after she·' s been crying and a true desire to seek revenge for her daughter's brutal killing. She tries to hold the ~hole thing together, but there are too many inconsistencies around her. If the FBI is staking out the vigilante killers, why don't they prosecute them? Why doesn'tthefriendFieldmakes at the support group try to stop her? Schlesinger's ob- vious visual images (balloons flying through the air after the rape seen is shown) attempt to create art, but with so little interest in plot, character de- velopment, and acting put into this work, it's a wonder one can make it through to the end credits. Yes, Sally, we still like you, t we really like you. But, please, if you must start mak- ing TV movies, work for CBS, not Paramount. That way, your great abilities won't be placed next to bad underact- ing, and we won't have to waste $7 to see something that can be watched at home for free ... on NBC. Arts & Entertainment In Concert: Steve Kenyon Quartet · & UnionCollegeJazzEnseritble Jazz saxopltonist Steve Kenyon (plroto: Dept. of P'eiforming Arts) Courtesy of the Dept of Performing Arts The Union College Jazz Ensemble, under Professor Tim Olsen, will perform at 8:00PM tonight in the Yulman The- ater. Special guests, The Steve Kenyon Quartet; will also perf6~. This conc~rt is free and op(m tQ the public.' -. · · · · · .· The Steve Kenyon Quartet, based in New York City, performs a variety of contemporary jazz styles, incorporat- ing originals and jazz classics. Tenor saxophonist and com- poser Steve Kenyon plays on Broadway and is an active studio musician, educator, and clinician. He has performed with such artists as Blood, Sweat and Tears, 'File Four Fresh- men, ArethaFrailklin, and The New York City Ballet. The Union College Jazz Ensemble is made up ofUnion College students as well as members of the Schenectady community. The concert will feature standards by such jazz greats as Duke Ellington, Hoagy Carmichael, and Thad Jones, as well as original works and arrangements by Olsen. Performing Arts UNION Upcoming Events - Winter 1996 Union College Jazz Ensemble, Tim Olsen, Director and The Steve Kenyon Quartet St. Cecilia Orchestra, Peter Bay, Conductor Union College Orchestra and Choir Concert (with choirs from WPI, Wells, Regis and Union Colleges), Hugh Allen Wilson, Conductor Thursday, January 25 Yulman Theater 8:00PM Saturday, February 10 Memorial Chapel 8:00PM Sunday, February 11 Memorial Chapel 3:00PM Schenectady Museum and Union Colle&e Concert Series Vellinger String Quartet (featuring Haydn, Mendelssohn, Puree] and Britten) Friday, February 2 8:00PM For further if1formation, contact the Performing Arts Department at x6201· Memorial Chapel

Arts & Enterta~ment 'lHq.e CHoucn:rbiensis • January 25, 1996 • Page l I by Robert Roy Arts Columnist Yolanda thinks Richard Gere a much better actress than his is the hottest thing since the jalepeno peppers at Big Bob's Mexican -Grill and Shoe Letme try to get this straight Leather Factory, so I am not -andcorrectmeifl'm:wrong a·stupidman: \pleasethela- ex, Cindy Crawford, was in Fair Game.. Then he made loud comments about what he'd really like to do Elle in his laundry ro6m. It was at star. After aU, he has to sup- port his family and the long divorce battle with Cindy, so he can't afford to get cheated out of something paltry like $5 million. - but acting. is supposed to \ 1 · • ·n f'' mean p a:yi·ng t e part o: ~orneoneorsomething. Ifthis theory of mine is true, then what inthe world are today' s \actors\ actually doing? What I am thoroughly convinced that an actor's job isn't to ac- tually ''act''' anymore; rather, it's to impersonate any mem- ber ofCongress, making us spend our money foolishly. are they getting paid $500 dies, Rob,\ I said to mYself, this point Yolanda and I In Judge Dredd, though, gazillion doHars for? In a few \that's what a gentleman is walked up to him, told him you know ymfre not getting new filmsi've seen recently, I · for.\ ,how good we thought his hair- cheated by Stallone. He can't am thoroughly convinced that Gere puts on a good show, style was iq Intersection and pronounce the word \dog\ in an actor's job isn'tto actually acting likeanactionhero, but that his toupee should have Englishcorrectly,soyouknow \act\ anymore; rather, it's to sure enough, he lets slip that won the Best Supporting Ac- he won't try for roles that de- impersonate any member of American accent ofhis. Sean tor Oscar for its pivotal role mand big, big words like \cau- Congress, making us spend Connery notices this, and you in Mr. Jones. He was blush- liflower\ to be spoken. In ourmoneyfoolishly .. · can practically see him want- ing with pride, and after we Judge Dredd, he sounds like It all happened when my ingto break out of character exchanged these courtesies, I a stroke victim, slurring his girlfriend, Yolanda, and I went as the king and say, \my name asked him whyhe couldn't do . way through such simple lines to Lackluster Video last isBond ... JamesBond\justto asimplejobofactinglikethe ·as \I am the law!\ I read weekendtorenta.movie. we· distract the audience. It's a realLancdotinthemovie. He somewhere that a dialogue wanted to rent Tbe ·Basket~ movie thatis not set in: twenti- stated simply, \because I was coach 'Nould have cost some- ball Diqries with-Leonard eth-century America, so why concerned I wasn' tgetting thing like $3 m i IIi on, so DiCaprio, becausELWe heard would there be arty American paid extra for it.\ He then Stallone told the producers it was like Hoop Dreams only English in the dialogue? pulled out the contract to his they could save $2 million if shorterandwithabetterdisco Well, Yolanda was disap- film, and sure enough, it they fired the coach and soundtrack. Alas, there are pointed with the movie, but proved he was getting paid bought him a new mansion in moreLeomardDiCapriofans loved Gere. When were- $10millionto playLancelot, Beverly Hills, instead. Thefilm in upstate New York than I turned the tape, who did we but the agent had scratched flopp:ed in theaters, and tore- thought, and they were outof see at the checkout counter out the $5 million extra he was claim his $1 billion-per- film both copies of the movie .. So; . , , butRichar4 Qere himselfl, He .. to get for. putting on tbe. ap- . salary status, he must make Yolandapointedouttherewas was renting Sirens, and was propriate accent. I under- three new sequels to the one copy of First Knight left. mentioningtotheclerkhowhe standtrulywhyGerewasnot Rocky series within the next 0 h, boy, was I thri 11 ed! thoughtElle Macpherson was acting, but only being .a movie decade, which will help explain the unanswered ques~ons and confusing dialogue of the first five entries in the series. Saddened by the lack of care put into serious acting, I went with my friend Casper to see Nixon. If I had known this \Yas an Oliver Stone film, I woqJdn'thave gone. Stone has a conspiracy for every- thing, and after sitting through three hours of his theories, I began to think I was being fol- lowed by an FBI agent, a video camera, and the dinner I ate last night at Upperclass. I'm beginning to believe my birthday was a conspiracy against me by my parents: I was born in July, and I never could have a birthday party in my elementary school classes like all my friends could. No, I had to have a summer birth- day! Anyway, Anthony Hopkins acts really well, but I never knew that the real Nixon's hobbies included slip- ping into a Welsh accent from time to time. Hopkins must have thought so, because he did research on the character. For all the hoopla concerning his performance, no one no- . ticesthathe can'tspeak con- vincingly. Now that must be a conspiracy Stone is_ cook- ing up against us moviegoers! HAROLD LOHNER ROBERTAVONSMITH SUMMER RESEARCH FELLOWSHIP RECENT PRINTS AND DRAWINGS JANUARY 29- MARCH I, 1996 ARTIST'S RECEPTION TUESDAY, JANUARY 30,\ 1996, 4-6 PM Harold Lohner, untitled, 199 5 UNION COLLEGE ARTS ATRIUM OPEN DAILY 9AM-6PM IN BIO-:MEDICAL ENGINEERING AT UNION COLLEGE This fellowship is sponsored by Robert Avon Smith, Class of 1952. It is awarded to students in the sciences or engineering who participate in a summer research program in bio-medical engineering under the guidance of Union College faculty. The award will be made available to a student selected on the basis of availability to conduct independent research in bio-medical engineering and committment to the summer research program. Students interested in applying for the SUMMER 1996 Fellowship should contact Prof. J. Richard Shanebrook in the Dept. of Mechanical Engineering. WRUC 89.7 fm . I ' ' ... ' {

Y·oung Republicans Want You The Republican Club The Young Republicans Club of Union College was or- ganized and reestablished in 1994. Our goal is to promote politi- cal awareness and Republican prin- ciples such as smaller goV·ern- ment and lower taxes. We repre- sent the myriad views that com- prise the Republican Party na- tionwide, but the common de- nominator that we share is faith in the democratic system and the .political parties as es- sential players within that sys- tern. Madison warned in the Federalist Papers that \fac- tions\ would yield the demise of republican government. And today many Americans are uncomfortable with as- sociating themselves with ei- ther of the two main parties. But the Young Republicans believe that the better way to govern is not by eschewing issues, but by defin- ing principles and ne- gotiating details;. the two-party system fa- cilitates that. So, when Wash- ington said that par- ties \ ... are likely in the course of time and things, to become potent engines, by which cunning, ambitious, and un- principled men will be en- abled to subvert the Power of the People and to usurp for themselves the reigns of Government.\ As Young Re- publicans, we believe Wash- ington was only half right. To find out why, join us at a meeting; they will vary throughout the term, so watch for signs. Pre-Health Floren Robinson Contributing Writer Most people relate the health care field with doctors .. Often, people are unaware of many career opportunities available in health care. The PreHealth Society shows the students of Union these professions. The PreHealth Society brings professionals to discuss and inform students about their fields. The professions introduced range from a family physician to a genetic coun- selor to a health care administrator. On January 17. the organization, led by Professor Karen . Williams, held a program to teach students how to find internships and employment through the Internet. Each term, a panel of about five professionals gathers. This term's panel will meet Wednesday, January 31, at 7:00 P.M., in the Strauss Lounge on the third floor o Reamer Campus Center. Stephanie Cotugno, D.O., a resi- dent in family practice at St. Clare's Hospital, David Civale, • a chiropractor, Steven Weingold, MPH, a Public Health Specialist at the New York State Department of Health, and Bonnie Liebers, M.S., a genetic counselor, will take part in the panel. Cotugno and Civale are both Union al- ums. The medical aspects of alcoholism will be anoth-er panel. Among the speakers will be a representative of a local al- coholism treatment center and recovering alcoholics. This, is scheduJed for Wednesday, February 21 at 7:00 P.M. in the Strauss Lounge. Spring term presents a mini-series on HIV and AIDS. Dr. Patricia Hughes, from the Department of Pediatrics at Albany Medical Center, Professor Thomas McGovern who has a slide presentation on HIV and AIDS patients, and Joyce Holly, from the AIDS Council of Northeastern New York, will be speakers. These programs will start in April. A tour of Community Health Care Plan in Latham, NY is planned for May where one can see what it is like to be. · a health professional at an HMO. A possible discussion will include a clinical psychologist, a dietician, an adminis- trator, a physical therapist, and an optometrist. .. Bridge_ Club~ · ___ - Okay, admtt It, all you really 1t 1salso a very soc 1 ai and mter- country, behmd.Dartmoutb and know about bridge is that your active game. Some people, like the University of'Pennsylvania. parents and grandparents play. perhaps your grandparents, At the .same tournament,. Actually, bridge is played more play for entert~nment and so- Marti·qua Post and Jon often aroundtheworld than any cial interaction. Others, like Zandman took second in the other competitive game. There many of the players on campus, Novice Section. are roughly 3 0 million !Wle play for the intense competition. Union students have ac- around the world who play. It The Bridge Club here at quired a very good reputation even beats soccer, the worlds Union requires nothing at all of in local tournaments for being most popular sport, in reference it's members.lt ism ore of aeon- not only competitive players, to the number of heurs that it is tact group. Those who are in the but for their ethics as well. 'This played. club have a list of others who neworking has led to some very So why are so many people play, and they set up their own good job effers and improved playing a game that you games. The club has organized relationswiththecommllliity. In thought was probably boring? free lessons for anyone on cam- March, those in the club who Well, quite frankly, you were pus who is i 11 terested, and all can willbe going to Philadelphia wrong. Bridge takes all the logic tournament fees are paid for by to compete at Nationals with and strategy of \Spades\ and the club as well. over5,000 other Bridgeplayers adds to it the competitive bid- Last tenn Union .participated from around the country. ding from \pitch.\ in a national collegiate touma- (For more infonnation, contact While bridge rivals the most ment. Rob Hagopian and James James Bascom by e-mail or @ intellectual games in the world, Bascom took third place in the 370-1320) UC Democrats Encourage Political Participation Stephanie Masker One common criticism of Union's student body is the lack of political fervor often associated with American ~ollege students. However, the Union College Demo- crats is one organization which allows students to be- come politically active. The voices of young adults are often unheard and, therefore, it is essential that students become involved in the sys- tem so their interests may be recognized. The Union Col- lege Democrats perform various functions throughout the year. Voter registration is offered by an absentee bal- lot for one's home state or by declaring residenceat Union for eligibility in Schenectady. ·Many are unaware that Union students may vote in Schenectady. As four-year residents of the city, we have the right to impact the deci- sions made that affect our school and its surrounding area. In addition, the group hosts speakers for the cam- pus community and allows students to work with local politicians and candidates. Last term, the UC Demo- crats held a Meet the Candi- dates night in which Schenectady County Demo- cratic candidates were on hand to infonn students.ofthe upcoming elections. The guests answered questions concerning their positions and plans. Moreover, several stu- dents assisted the candidates in their bids fo:r(re-)election, LOSE .20 POUNDS IN TWO' WEEKS gaining insight into the politi- cal process. As always, new mem- bers are welcome; one need not be affiliated with the Democratic Party to join. The purpose of the club is not to persuade members to- wards one side or the other, but to serve as a mechanism through which students may participate in politics. Any ideas or comments are en- couraged. Meetings usually . ' last no longer than fifteen . ' minutes and take place a couple qftimes each month. Look for signs in Reamer Campus Center for times, dates, and locations. If you have any questions, please contact Joh:q V~ro (p~esi­ dent) at x7 I 1,6 or my.self at x5659. Fampus U.S. Wolflen'sAlpine Ski Team Diet Duringthenon-snowoffseason, the U.S. Women's Alpine Ski Team members. used the \Ski Team\ dietto lose 20 pounds in 14 days! The basis·ofthe diet is chemical food action and was devised by afammts Colorado physician especially for the U.S. Ski Team. Nonnal energy is maintained (very important) while reducing. You keep \full\-no starvation -because the diet is designed that way.· It's a diet that is easy to follow whether you work, travel, or stay at home. This is, honestly, a fantastically successful diet. If it weren't~ the U ~S. Women's Alpine Team wouldn't be pennitted to use it! Right? So; give yourself the same break the U.S. Ski Team gets -lose weight the scientific, proven way. Even if you've . tried all the other diets; you owe ittoyourselftotry the U.S. Women's Alpine Ski · · Team Diet. That is, if you really do want to lose 20 pounds in two weeks. Order today! Tear this out as a reminder. Send only $8.95 ($9.60 in Calif.)-add .50 cents RUSH service to: American Institute, 721 E. Main Street, Dept. 254, Santa Maria, CA 93454-4507. Don't order unless you expect to lose 20 pound~ in two weeks! Copyright 1995

Features C!IonrorOiensis Jan 25,1996 13 ''-'.· Uncontrolled Flooding and Its. ·correlations. to Greek Life by Conor McKenzie Staff Writer' It seemed like a hassle in . tp~. begin~~ng of the/ year to . wal:k up all those stairs. i· Now it all seems ·worth- while pecause if I had lived clqset ~9,,. (or }?elow) sea level,.I might now b~ under water. I honorand praise the res-life gods for bestowing the 3rd floor upon me. Granted~.~(H~:p\dy'· e,x,pected · that a sudden torrential downpour ~~~\d\'}tn! 2 :~.~ '!. ~~ . . . • . . feet of packed. snow, but it · and I began to think about still feels ·good to have taken Greek rush. I thought of the the time to walk up all those poot little water molecules Davidson stairs. tumbling onward, covalently I didn't stay upon my bonded to the rest of the lofty perch on the 3rd floor group. Freshly freed from of Davidson. I · clonned my their frozen state, hoping that galoshes and traveled down- they would come to rest in a stairs to laugh atthe dungeon pleasant pool of water. dwellers, but when I went Those little molecules kept doWnstairs I paused and reminding me of my fellow watched as water rushed un- classmates rushing to the c.heckeddownthe stairs (and Greek hom;;es looking for a through,c;rapks in the :wall). . pleasant· place to call their ·· :As'm6re water flowed own. Just like those poor past, my fe~t g;rew colder, molecules didn't know that the cesspoo1 they would come to rest in was a good place, how does this year's rush class know that it will end up in a good place.· It's tough to get inside a molecule ~s head, but that doesn't curb my curiosity. Are these \molecules\ sim- ply rushing because about 50% of every previous class ended up joining various pools of water. Are they sim- ply rushing in blind faith of the numbers of previous classes? (assuming that they are the .same as molecules .that rushed the year before.) Why do molecules have to accept gravity and rush down stairs? Why not dance on Newton's grave, and go up stairs? Why not gather and dance around brightly colored lights, why not fly? It just might be a crime to accept the same old pools that have been used for nearly two centuries. A lot of algae and bacteria can form on the surface of stand- ing water in 200 years. Although vye homo sapi- ens are made largely of wa- ter, we are much more than water. We don't have to fol- low the contours of the ground driven onwards by gravity. We have free will and don't have to accept mediocracy. Somehow though we manage to group our infinite varieties into little more than a baker's dozen pools. Those pools aren't so lim- pid, they can be quite cloudy. Caution is warranted, the molecules within may not react too well with your own type. While you may be con- tent to collect in just any old pool, keep in mind that you don't have to accept that. Molecules, think before you accept the same laws that have been controlling your predecessors. ,_ Wh'lt Was on Your Mind .·Last Night? Someday, I'll Learn . that I had no idea whatl wanted if you are at a party and trying by P~ter SoFensen to Write about forth is issue· no to get laid, but failing miser- , Features Editor su pr's·-' r, 'be dt . ably your fixer might be an ___ ,...b_y_J..,..efti.,..._ -ery-:-_._~-0-ru_z_b_a __ ··•'-:'··;.,•·-··\;;•(·;Pnq\\'~·~·rl!. ~.m:''r!r'~~~~~~-:. ~~·~~.~pace .8:-,, ·.tt.J',d,,.-.~t;\Th··· •·· _. .·•. - C 'b · · ~even_mmutes ~nd t~Irty- . nlfSqc· BL!-~, tt'liaS'ti't been -~or. , OLuer, ;,mK~ . · ts'rs.r~ vt~tous t:':: _ ;~' ontn utmg ~fzter~ 1 four seconds ago it was about much of a problem because cycle,liowever,sothenextday ·....-;........,.;_..,...,.....__ _ _......:;_...;;.:~­ one o'clock in the morning. i someone else was on a mis- . Y:oilr fixer would likely be lots I have discover~·d the future of have class in seven hours and sion... · · · · · of water and some B-complex restaurant dining, and it is called ,thirty-foui!.ihintit~s~ 'give or I rimst confess: the ice vitamins. You could also try \China Buffet.\ The China Buf- . , . fet experience is like noi1e other. take a cup of coffee: ' Oh. and cream was her idea. not mine. · · tce cream, if your stomach is , , , Oh, how I do love it and hate it at · d_id I rhentid,_n. 1 ·? Jhave writer's < And I wasnottheoneprogress- ···strong. , 1 the same time. When you walk in, ·block. i feel'sort'd:f~lich¢ writ- · ing from Baked to cranky. I · I'm not going to mention you need not open your mouth. in'g that; but' ilr~~tJue; 'aiid;1 don't· ·didn't· ca1T escort for a ride to any academic fixers, because I The girl behind the counter has a . 'kfiow hd~~etfe 16'\~~press it.., t6e lReamer:·:arrd I'honestly • 'dri have ·some morals, and be- huge smile on her f;~ce and says, 11 ·W~l( ·iet\s'n6t 1 ~id' diirselves tlloughfthelittle store thaduis' '''sides,. discovering them ym:~r- \Seven forty-eight.\ You pay ~- ,~ ,-we·t~.: .I pro·b,~.l:Hy just have ice cream tnight be open. r. It selfcan be exciting. Buti will . your way and~ as. s~e hands you . '·~~~ntal bldbk. .You know, I'm wasn•t. I didn't get us out of . say·this: the only ·ilk of fixer ~he ·change, slie slips in a little ' '' . s,itting here• tiyfug to think and that jam, and I didn't figure but · who doe~ not receive a proper look with her eyes, a non-verbal ·_'···it isn't working. The last ti.me how we could possibly get to amount of credit around here challenge of your manhood · J ·got ment.a:l 'block was a( a The Chopper. I didn't even is the maintenance-pe.rson through momentary eye contact. 1, . 'diner·ieally early in the mom- pick the flavor. I don't think l fixer. He has saved us on ev- As you turn to find a seat, you h wonder if you saw her mouth ing. I ordered ham in my om- have had too many good ideas eryt ing from fixing the toilet _ question, \Are you man enough?\ elet (I was veg.then) and ashed tonight. (once) and showers (thrice), to Infuriated, you quickly grab a in my water glass. But, hey- _ Ice cream dissolved any removingthethingwhichgrew plate and dive in. You'll show whatever-these things hap.. trace oflier crankiness; I sup- out of Papa Cicco's remains in them. pen. pose itn.umbed my mind a bit the hallway. I mean, how else Plate after plate, you're feel- Ihavebeenlyingaroundtl1e more. Ice'creamisgoodlike could I be so contentedly inggoodtoday.Youwil/getyour hallway for the past hour, hav- that; ice cream is a fixer. In lounging about in the hallway? money's worth before the evening ing finished a pint .of Ben & movies, the fixer is the guy Wow, I somehow managed is over. Your friend seems to be Jerry's fudge-chunky-.caramel- with greasy hair and connec- to come full-circle. I'm back lagging behind, and you are the whatever, and listening to the tions.who can get you out of a in the hallway, staring at the only hope to prove that you will \Mountain Jam.\ We were jam,liketheWolf. In college empty ice cream container, notberippedoff.They'vecreated talking about a camping trip the fixer depends completel; thinking about seven hours several obstacles, but you laugh fi h them off. Sure, they only have last summer when I realized on the situation. For instance, rom now, w en my fixer will contain lots of caffeine. that gassy soda available, so you get filled up faster. Who needs any beverage? Most of the items are of the very filling bready and potato-like variety. You skip these for the items that will put this operation out of business, the fried shrimp and the meats. You've turned into a contestant on Supennarket Sweep now, throw- ing all the most expensive items in your cart, or on your plate in this case, to drive that total up. You're on your third plate and the guys that fill aU the trays on the buffet line are standing with their arms crossed, looking at you and laughing. what are they saying?·'ni$'ok athhis guy. They're all the same.'' \I bet he thinks he'll put us out of busi- ness.\ You better believe that's what you're going to do. You're slowing down and getting dizzy. You went out too fast and now you are paying for it. The register girl giggles~ But wait! What's this?! A second wind. Bring it on! What plate is this? · No one knows because the bus boy was so eager to pick your empties up while you were at the buffet again. They will not win. They ... will 'not ... win. Aughhhllhhhh! They won. Their confidence in victory is evident. The girl gives the \Better Luck Next Time\ look. You swear the two pan filler guys just high-fived. You have lost. There is no place for sec- ond in this match of wits and eggrolls. As you slurp down the soft ice cream soup, (Isn't that what it always becomes in those dishwasher hot bowls?) you pledge to yourself and your friend that next time you will win. You will get your money's worth. You're smarter now ... and wiser. You know the mistakes you made and the areas you can improve on. The staff smirks as you exit, covering your face in shame. You crack open your fortune as you walk out to the parking lot with your friend. It's advice for you: \Don't kid your- self.\ You'll be back after some more training and self starva- tion. You'll show them. Some- how it's always the same though. ' t ' ·~ ' ·.~· ., '· ·, i ' '·

Dinosaur Nest Found in Central Asia by Dennis Popeo Science Editor Dinosaurs. To many of us, that word means many things: a great mystery, pow- erful and majestic creatures, Jurassic Park: the phenom- enon. Many people still be- lieve that these illustrious ani- mals are the predecessors of the reptiles of today that we all know and love. After all, dinosaurs look a lot like liz- ards, don't they? This ap- pears not to be the case. As more research is performed by paleontologists and paleo- behaviorists, dinosaurs are looking (behaviorally not vi- sually) a lot less like reptiles, and more like birds. This theory is being supported by an increasing body ·Of evi- dence which has been re- cently strengthened by a new discovery beneath the sands of the Gobi Desert. A research team led by Dr. Mark Norell from George Washington University has discovered a spectacular fos- sil specimen of a dinosaur called the Oviraptor. The fossil, which includes the bones of an Oviraptor and several eggs, is being hailed as substantial evidence that Oviraptor reproductive be- havior is bird-like. The first fossil of an Oviraptor and it's eggs were found in 1923. tral Mongolia and is attrib-. uted to the Late Cretaceous period of time. The speci- men shows no evidence of being moved after its.death, which strengthens scien- tists' claim that it died pro- tecting it's eggs. The fossil that was broken and healed dl.iring life. The reason that this pile of dead dinosaur bones is so ex- citing to scientists is that it is the most complete specimen found on a nest. Through close examination of the fos ... sil, the prec tse Since popular hy- potheses at the time related dino- saurs and reptiles, sci en ti sts attri b- uted the proximity ofthe bones ofthe FIG. 2 Reconstruction of Oviraptor on nest shortly before death. position ·Of the animal perched over it's eggs can be eluci- dated. creature to the eggs as an indication that Oviraptor was a scavenger. In 1994, however, this scav- enger theory was proven in- correct, when Norell reported that an Oviraptor embryo was found in one of the eggs surrounding the skel etonof a fossil of the animal. Thus, the Oviraptor died near ifs eggs, either protecting them, laying them, or incubating them. This particular specimen was collected in South Cen- appears to have been pre- served by being buried in a sandstorm. Although the skull, vertebral column, tail and pelvic bones are miss- ing, scientists were able to classify the specimen as a Oviraptor because of the ,presence by skeletal similari- ties to other known Oviraptor bodies. As with many fossils, this specimen displays an intriguing pathol- ogy, including an arm-bone T h e Oviraptor appears to be sit- ting with it's hind legs folded parallel beneath it, and it's claws positioned inward. The eggs of the creature are ar- ranged in a circular pattern with the broad end of the egg pointed to the center of the nest. Fifteen out of an ap- proximated 22 eggs are vis- ible, which is typical for Oviraptor nests. The mor- phology of these eggs match the morphology of the egg that the Oviraptor embryo was discovered in. Norell and his team have been able to discount any other reasons for the asso- ciation of the animal and the eggs. There are no eggs within the animals body; this rnl es out both predatory be- havior,as well as death dur- ing the process of laying eggs. Itseems that the only explanation for this fossil is that Oviraptor exhibited brooding behavior - the act of sitting on nests. In many animals, brooding is also as- sociated with warm bloodedness, but there is not enough evidence to support or refute that claim .. What this fossil does tell l;IS is that the Oviraptor is the parent of the eggs in the nest, the parents habitually stayed close to the nest, and they displayed the brooding posture that many modem birds display today. Thus, the modern reproductive be- havior of today's birds evolved long before the birds did. How Dark Is Dark Matter? by Jason Sanabia Contributing Writer One of the most cherished laws in physics is the law of gravitation. It can tell you how far a baseball will travel after being thrown, why Earth makes yearly trips around the sun, and how the moon pulls the tides of Earth's oceans. It can also tell you how much mass is in the Milky Way galaxy, which is made up ofbillions of stars (one of them being the star that 1 ights our skies in the day- time). A simple example may help you get acquainted with how this law works: throw a baseball and it trav- els a hundred yards. Now throw it faster, and it'll go even further. If you throw the ball fast enough, it will orbit the earth (neglecting air friction for all you nerds out there). It will just keep or- biting Earth without ever hit- ting the ground. Okay, say you can through a ball fast enough so that it will orbit Earth. Now go to the moon and throw it just as fast. What happens? Although the ball wiii never hit the ground, it will not necessarily orbit the moon. It will just fly off into space. The moon isn't \strong enough\ to pull this speedy baseball back to its surface. lt does not have enough mass. Mass and the \strength\ of a celestial body are intimately related. Now, go to the sun and try it. Since the sun has more mass than the earth, the baseball only goes so far before hitting the surface of the sun. If you made it this far, then you're ready for something really interesting. Our gal- axy, the Milky Way, is made ofbillions of stars (including the sun) all orbiting around the center. We can find out the total amount of mass in the Milky Way by measuring how fast the outermost stars (those stars that lie at the edge of the Milky Way) are traveling. People can and do measure this! The Milky Way must be massive enough to keep these stars from fly- ing off in space, like the earth had to be massive enough to keep the speedy baseball from flying off in space. By measuring the speeds of the outermost stars (and by knowing their masses), we find that the mass of the galaxy should be bil- l ions of times the mass of the sun! N o w comes the dilemma. Astronomers can only ac- count for about 10% of all this mass. That is, astrono- mers only see l 0% of what they should see! Where's the rest of it? The mass of the Milky Way was pre- dicted by one of the longest known laws of physics, the la.w of gravitation. This ob- servation caused tremen- dous dis£omfort in the phys- ics community, and a lot of effort has gone into finding an explanation for this discrep- ancy. As of recent, we may have found it. The answer may be that the matter is out there, but we can't see it. Such \dark mat- ter\ does not emit light that we can see or detect with our astro- . nomical instru- ments. Dark ·matter ' can con- sist of dead star s (stars that once fluoresced, but are now '\burned out\) black holes (which are not \voids\, but objects with a lot of mass) or of a multitude of very small particles that are hard to detect. This theory is most satisfactory in explain- ing the dilemma of the miss- ing matter. However, what is a theory if it cannot be proven? We must somehow be able to detect this dark matter. But how can we de- tect it if we can't see it? Technology's arms are not long enoug\1, to \touch\ it. Actually, we can, in a sense, see it Astronomers have recently developed a clever way of detecting dark matter by using a technique called microlensing. The technique relies on the prin- ciple that matter can bend the trajectory of light in much the same way as the earth bends the trajectory of a baseball. However, only very massive objects can bend light considerably so that we can notice it. Therefore, this technique cannot be used to detect small particles. The New York Times (January 17, 1996) reported that scientists have used this technique to account for 50% of the missing matter. This is great news to the physics community. The dis- comfort of the discrepancy is only partially relieved; however, as there is stil'l more matter to be found. PrewMed? Write Science and Technology for t!:l~c lCl~ttcnrhicnsis. Call Extension 6155 for information!! .

I ,- ; 1t (' ' \• 1 . I ,~ ! - • ,l 'f -j. •• ~ 1 I,.., l!. I, l l .... J. \'4. \. Living t: ~ l I Ducks Limited, Happiness Unlimited by David Eder Living Editor As the duck hunting season comes to a close, I reflect on the past two months. The Great Spirit was particularly kind to me this year. Not only in the sens~ that He kept my dinner table filled with tasty barbecued duck, but He also revealed some secrets to me while I hunted. This may seem strange. to those who feel that hunting is no more than a disgusting display of macho behavior, but those of you who know. the true nature of hunting, understand that The Great Spirit is;~ g~ving soul, Of course there are hunters who abuse the Great Spirit's gener- osity, and they are not given the true secr?ts and what's more they ultimately payJ~r their ac- tions through the ''laws of Karma. In the previous years I was one of those hunters. I shot animals without thinking about the consequences. I did not respect the ducks and so the Spirit did not respect me. I shot an ducks, .even the kinds that were inedible. I justified my actions by saying that I was not going over the legal limit. I failed to note that I may have broken a moral or ethical limit. In those years my duck hunt- ing days w~t:e enjoyable enough to continue, but the hunts never revealed anything to me. In other words~ I. was not learn- ing. Not about life or about hunting. That was Karma. My inappropriate behavior caused poor hunting and excluded me from the secrets of Nature. This year I went at hunting from a different paradigm. I wanted to learn about ducks, about the cycles of life, abotJt myself. I wanted to kill only to supply myself and my parents with fresh meat that is as healthy as vegetables. Wild game has no fat and has not been injected with steroids or any other drugs. · I vowed only to shoot ducks that were edible. I did this be- cause I had come to a realiza- tion that I could not justify wasting any part of nature. I vowed to become the best duck hunter I could be. I did this be- cause it was suggested that any- thingin life is f a r more pleas- il1g if it is done with feeling, i nten- s it y' and de,. liberate excel- ! ence. The results were amazing. I had the best season of my life. I shot a duck each time I went out. Each of these ducks were eaten gratefully by either myself, or a friend or family member. But far more impor- . tantly, the Great Spirit would ToyinBlood by Chris Richards Living Editor The purpose of Las Vegas is prostitution. There's no need for churches or an'y'other sym- bolism. Only one col'lection an hour won't make nearly enough money. Come on. ·In casinos people feverishly pray and their donations are far more frequent! The churches can't compete with that. The gambl~r's pray like hell that either the end of. their world stays away or beg for the end of the world this in· stant. If 'Paradise Lost' exists, then I'm standing where the devil has secretly 'steeped his altar,' God's darkness i.s- Satan's light. Ironically, graveyards are also absent, since everyone is already dead. . The plastic horse racing game may have brought this on. Stooped over the glass, I watched tny horse and waitress make the laps past me. Since all drinks were free, the frequency became a little dangerous. When I could no longer distin- guish between the horses and the waitress, I knew it was time to leave. Big time cowboys, all belt buckle and hat forge ahead while the women trail in their wake singing country music. There was a rodeo champion- ship in Vegas that week, and they were grinning from ear to ear. Escaping on my bike into the sea of cars, my angs-t receeded oncethe neon signs: disappeared. Steinmetz hall, \far better it is On a single lane highway the to dare mighty things ... than it endless desert and mountains re- is to live like those lowly spirits ally do look like some cheap who neither enjoy much nor painting. It was so beautiful and suffer much since they live in fake that I couldn't even think the grey twilight that knows about it. I picked out a little hill neither victory nor defeat.\ I that I was determined to get to didn't need to know anything the top of. I thought I could else. get there in about a half an hour. Thinking became the enemy. I was roughly a fifth of the way The more I thought, the slower to the top after thirty minutes. I went. With the pain and sun Since no one was around I beating down, the shrieking became anyone and anything I comforted me in getting to the ever wanted to become. Abso- top. All I could see was the top lutely nothing mattered. For a of the hill mocking me. Ha, ha while I was a pissed off Mad you loser. When the sand be- Max, then I ·was Theodore came too soft to ride on, I car- Roosevelt, and then I was the ried my bike on my shoulder next victim in l~ne 1o show tny ,and ran through the dessert devotion to the. sun. Screw it. cursing. To walk would be hu- l'll pack up the ·sun and hide it · miliating. My heart could ex- away for my own purposes. I plode atthis secondand it would can do anything, say anything, not matter. In fact I'm sure it be anything, and it does not would make many animals/ matter one single bit because people very happy. My wrists there is no one. else here. are nailed to the spokes, but my I was screaming while I kicking feet will never accept thought of all the insane ideas the torture of the final third nail. we learn in school. What in the world do they matter? Do they have a bearing on how I live in the present? All the contrived, linguistic ideas presented in school papers were making me sick. The words seem so little ex:cept for the one big letter at the very end. Please, anything other than the hideously incom- plete circle ofa C. Book knowl- edge became oppressive, and the only lesson I could recall was from the hanging quote in reveal Himself to me during each hunt. One time he came in the form of a seal. As I was wading in the water .placing de- coys this seal swam up to me. I played with and watched the seal for an :hour. I would relate companied with lessons. The most important and worthy of sharing was the realization that the individual parts of a hunt can be hard work, such as lugging all of the equipment and decoys through a swamp and the freez- ing cold wind blowing in your face at five ·--·---....--- o'clock in the morning, to you all that it said to me, but I don't think you'd believe me. Another time He revealed him- self as a prism of colors danc- ing on a wispy cloud. Another time in a snow storm. And He showed up as a rapidly rising tide. Each appearance was ac- but the entire experi- ence was inevitably en- joyable and enlighten- ing. A lesson which I now apply to school and work. Individual tasks may be bother- some, but, if you do your best and try to learn something while you are at it, Karma dic- tates that It shall be a great experience. This break I learned that happiness can be found while standing hip deep in half-frozen swamp mud. And if happiness can be found there, it can be found every- where. UNION COUIIGI! CaTttt Development Center CDC Updates ••• •NYC Recruiting Day- Friday, January 26 •Andersen Consulting lnfo1'1nllli6n Session - Monday, Febru- ary 5, 7 pm at the CDC. Andersen Consulting Interviews- Tues- day February 6 thm Thursday February 8. •AMS Information Session - Wednesday Febmary 7 at the CDC. AMS Interviews - Thursday, February 8. •Teach for America lnunkws - March 8. Applications Dead- line March 1. Resumes to be sent directly to Teach For America. •Emma Willard one year teaching internship. Jack Easterling, Director of the School will be at the CDC Febmary 15 @ 4:00 pm to discuss the program. •Watch New Flash on the CDC Homepage for up- to- date an- nouncements. •Hospital Computer Systems is looking for entry level computer programmers and account managers. See the CDC for further detail. Update •Schenectady Association for Retarded _ Citizens will be in the College Center - Atrium on Feb. 21st from I 0:30am -4pm offering summer and part-time positions. Career Development Center- Third. Floor, Old Chapel ·~ t ·' f ~ , 1 ., .; I 'i ' 1' .. • ; { j .. ~· . .; ' ~

' • 0 .-~ ~ . ..:.A .. ~~:.~ ' . OUT ON A LIM·B by GARY KOPERVAS KRAZYKAT Av.f 'loU SU{ZE 'rbU ~tAD 1\.\E. A.D l21G\f l.AR~'( . King Crossword ACROSS 1- Canals 4 Ovine comment 7 He's a little horse 8Move slightly 10 Bulgaria ·s capital 11 Squinet•s stash 13 \Inherit the Wind\ director 16 Unseld of basketball 17 Sil1y sorts 18 Altar affinnative 19 Frenzied 20 Conunand to Fido 21 Aerosol OUil>Ul 23 .. Noises Off' playwright 25 Lean and sinewy 26 Was prompter? 2711le time of your life? 28 Rabbi of whodunits 30 Mme., across the Pyrenees 33 Hockey prize 36 Equine noises 37 .. Necktie\ 38 Winter forecast 39 Verifiable 40 Harvest goddess 41 Rarin' to go DOWN 1 Parlor pieces 2 Actress Lena 3 Earache 4 Milwaukee squad 5 Worship 6Taj Mahal site 7 Sheep's shed 8 Serenaded the moon 9 IIi will 10 Compass point 12 Auto style 14 Slithery 15 Daseball\s Campanella 19 Twisted 20 Forlorn 21 Venice's Bridge of- 22 Acts the peacock 23 Gas-gauge notation 24 Slackens 25 Am~kor- 26 Verb used with \thou\ 28 Bacterial infection, for short 29 Partners 30 Tonto's horse 31 Stratagem 32 Mimic 34 One·s perfonnance? 35 Bygone days 'f~W.~1Nt ... \1\ S~lt> \fu~SDA'I ~~ t.OS5lf.R NIG\;rf A1 ~o·s:. .......... ~,- ............... ,...._ ' . i ' - •' : - ~ 41 1' ·r: \d . 't . t' · · m a ra1 ··we can accep your application, 'Evelyn.m ·: ~.. ..rQld,i~~At?on~~}l~.q,.alarm, Mom, not a Quarter Pounder. You're on another diet, ~ .. arer,t't you?\ J ._ ~·. ~- ~. -- : J .\. - • ~. •• Vision Teaser · ·GU!SS!W S! XOQI!e.-. '9 'JefiJel $! Mog 'S ·peppe &JV SlodS 'tr '$U9J8JI!P Si JGqWON ·c 'Jotll!WS ~16o0 ~ 'p8SJ9119J Sf de:) \l !SQQIIaJeii!(J . ~' ' . '.

Personals and Cbissineds To Adam Richman, The Concordiensis thanks you for your dedication tllreugh the years. We respect . your decision and will miss you every Tues- day night. Thanks! -Evan WANTED!!!!! Individuals, Student Organizations to Pro- mote SPRING BREAk Earn MONEY and FREE1RIPS . CALL INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS . ·, http://www.icp~.cgm ~--800-327 -6013 ~ ; . dancin'. Love, The Americans Hey Killer- Welcome back! You were missed! -A bundle of phun To the Jenn in Gre.ece, Remember that you are wonderful and that you are missed by the three Ra's. -the Non BlondRA Carol- ~: · ,. .·. . Look to the East,- Look to the West, Look Happy 21! KeJp.pulding.' Lovey~:mr,flo.ck to t~e .North, Looldo the south, You can't ofsheep.Baa!;; · · ; ~ridtne.HahHay .... Hey .. , Shag a sheep! f ', i Hey Nmwegiajl'_bqy- ... Hope your birthelay.was.fun. ..:Freak . Killer- . \Class afterClass.atUg1y, Ugly children\ · -Seund · .· · Familiar? -ME To that freaky bird- Get a life. 'To the Brothers ofZBT, Once again Black+ White was ,a success. -Denny ., W~hadaGreattime. : · : ·; · We Sisters ofDelta,Delta, Delta .. Pink flaming8Jovet seeks male· to share PMS and lawh timani~h:t -bliss . ' : To.the Guys at Seward( and company), To Robinson 2- ... ' . . .. Friday night was a blast . Let's do it again. Miss you more than anytl1ilig.Keep The Sisters ofDelta,Delta, .t;>elta. The·.Rathskellar will npw be open late · ~ . • r i ,., ~ f night on Friday and Saturday e·venings . . from 9:00pm- midnight. Meal equivalencies are also accepted as . . . on weekdays, and bottled beer will be -, ·'.,offered 9:00pm~midnight. - t l .! ' ,' ' • So come in and enjoy a midnight snack with your friends and listen to the jukebox. Play your favorite tunes ... To the Brothers of Sigma Chi- Thanks for a great belated holiday celebra- tion. Meny Christmas! -The Sisters of Gamma Phi Beta To the Brothers of Alpha Delta Phi- Saturday night was a blast. Thanks for a Great Party! -The Sisters of Gamma Phi Beta To the Sisters of Delta Gamma, Sigma I>elta Tau andTri Delta, Good luck in the remain- ing days of Rush. -The.Sisters of Gamma Phi Beta TO aU the Sisters who areaway: We hope you're having fun. , We miss you. -The Sisters of Delta, Delta, Delta. Backus, Syntagma, Kolonaki, Niko's and CYA. Th~t's just the beginning. Do it all over baby. LtiveDoll SQhoif, It's almost over. A job well done. We love you and appreciate all you've done. Love Dana+ Ivop.ne .< jKlein,Was that you, in the basement, do- ing THAT???? Ollie, Leezalto, +Jack-O The Greatest Roommates in the world. Love, Dole + the other one (She needs a name) Pelana, I'm so jealous- its cold here and the sun stopped coming out- this is all since you've been gone. Did you do something while I wasn't looking? Love DID-n Rach-I'm sure we will find a way that is good for both .of us- Tunces Siri, There are Whisky Sours waiting in the fridge. Wbo else wants to lock Alanis Morrissete and Dave Mathews in theirrooms and play their own music at them until they pee their pants and promise ton ever do it again? If you do call 615 I on Sunday from 9 to 11. Fuzzy Wuzzy;. Hope everything will be okay!! !Just remember no trucks! .. maybe a jeep ..... and all will be fine. Splendo_r:in Stone This renowned exhibit from the State Museum at Albany of spectacular color photographs of thin sections of rocks visits the Nott Memorial on the Union College campus January 22 to February 29 Thin sections are slices of rock l/850th of an inch thick, \ glued to glass. Seen through a polarized light micro- scope, the rocks have colors and patterns that astonish and amaze.! In addition to being unusual and dramatic abstract art, the colors and patterns can tell geologists about the minerals present and how the rock formed. Open to all! You won't believe such images are real! Vennont schist, plane polarized light (actual width is 8 mm) . i .. . ' . • 1 . !< ~ ~ I i \~

' I . , CD& TAPE RANCID- HOOTIE PEARL JAM- TORI LIVE- ETHERIDGE BUSH- RAMONES PORNO FOR PYROS PHISH-DEAD DAVEMATIHEWS BJORK- BEASTIES and lots more ... Video Games SNES &\Genesis Start at $5 All 1995 OJ Tapes Only$3 Each Rap, Reggae & Soul I ; . ..\ :.-...,. i 1\j. '• \ Sports the korner· Greg Kalish Contributing Writer Although the National Hockey League's All-Star game will never be a true representation of regular season NHL hockey, the 1996 version held this past weekend at the Fleet Center in Bos- ton came a great deal closer than previ- ous attempts. The annual NHL show- case still put forth the games greatest scorers and, for the most part, contin- ued to neglect the role player or the de- fensive specialist, but at the very least, the score was kept below the double dig- its, a story in itself. Hometown hero Ray Bourque scored with less than. a minute to go to give the Eastern All-Stars an 5- 4 victory. While the game was exciting for the fans who were there, perhaps the great- est hoopla surrounding this event con- cerned those who watched the game on television. The FOX Network, whiCh has vaulted into the world of sports meaia since pi_cking up .the National Football League two years ago, and then added the NHL and Major League Baseball within the last year, introduced the lat- estin sports technology, a glowing puck. The actual puck is not illuminated, but · rather through sensors planted in the puck· which send signals that are then picked up by cameras perched on the perimeter of the rink, the puck has a glowing complexion for those viewing on television. To add to the sparkle and the glitz, a comet tail accompanies the puck along its path. The idea behind this new te,chnology, besides the desired media hype and viewer curiosity, is that the glow-puck is supposed to make it easier for the viewer to follow the puck and understand the game. And while it may serve its purpose for those who have watched little hockey in their lifetimes, I ' ~: the purists and the real fans who under- stand the game know that such a device is not only unnecessary, but somewhat distracting as well. Long considered the \fourth sport\ behind baseball, football, and basketball (not in that order necessarily), the Na- tional Hockey League has, always struggled with an identity problem. Un- til two years ago, the only national tele- vision contract the NHL owned was an agreement with SportsChannel America, not exactly the second coming to any of the sports television giants. In the years since, contracts with ESPN and FOX have given the NHL much m~re expo- sure and national publicity. Expansion and relocation have placed hockey teams in cities where once the ice cube was the only type of frozen water known. Many people feel that hockey is experiencing the same boom now that the NBA expe- rienced in the early 80's before it racketeered to pwminence. And while nationwide exposure is a good thing, the so-called Americanization of a predomi- nantly Canadian sport has drawn some ire from the purists of which I earlier spoke. ' · experimenting with all sorts of new gim- micks and gadgets. First came the clock and scoreboard in the upper.-left hand corner of the screen. For the most part, while it took some getting used to, the on-screen scoreboard has not been such a bad idea, although ESPN and MSG's scoreboards are too big and sometimes become a distraction. What is not work- ing out are the cockeyed camera angles which attempt to give home viewers a chance to se.e the games from different angles hut in reality don't let you see anything at all. The behind-the-goal cam- era which sits atop the glass behind the goalie is the worst. Used primarily for power plays or when the puck is in one end of the ice for a particularly long pe- riod of time, it .is virtually impossible to see what is happening when the puck is in the corner or along the boards. The point men look like Lilliputians. Other camera techniques such as low-level viewing and close-ups just do not suit a hockey game. - Neither does this gloWing puck. Per- . haps one day, technology. will exist to aBow viewers to deeit;le for themselves whether they want tlY'see the puck glow as they watch by pressing a button on At first, the new television contracts the remote control DGfore each game. brought about the desire arid need to Who knows? But unti(then, it'has got to make more advertising money: As are- go. Real hockey fans don't need to see suit, the thirty-second commercial dur- the puck aU the time to know where it is ing play stoppages was doubled to one or where it might end up. Vancouver minute's length. This was the fitst Canuck's goaltender Corey Hirsch was change, taking effect two years ago and denied the opportunity to keep the puck it has subtly. changed the face· of ·the after his first ,career shutout because the game. For example, coaches· can rest four~hundred dollar-item neededto be their best players without taking a timeout returned to FOX for assessment (it was as a result of the extending break. Also, · being tested during that particular game). fourth lines rarely see the ice time that That's insane. Hockey is a wonderful they used to and superstars in their mid.:. · sport, deserving· of attention and expo\ thirties are seeing more than thirty min-· sure, but not at the expense of what utes of ice-time a game. makes it so great, ihe. fans who know. Off the ice, the networks have· been · · :; T ;:· : . . •- .. ' . ~ - .. ,. . .. . ' $1 A WASH, 5TH WASH FREE FRE.E ·DRYING TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS 8AMT03PM SSt; STORE .FOR D~TAJLS & ADDITIONAL SAVINGS . ~·· . . ... .. . .. 1

Sports . W·omen' s Basketball Travels North by Mike Leding StqffWriter This past weekend, th~ U11ion Dutchmen women's basketball team traveled north for a two ,game road trip. Their first op- ponent, on Friday .night, was a tough St. Lawrence squad. Led by the play of freshman p()int guard Mary Schultz, the Dutch- men battled in one of their most exciting games all season. Un- fortunately, when the final buzzer sounded, Union: had suf- fered an extremely heartbreak- ing one point loss. The Dutchmen had n() time to reflect on their one pqint loss, because they . matched up against Clarkson. on Saturday night. Union came out of the gate strong, playing a very skilled Clarkson team to a stand- still tie in the first half. How- ever, in the second half, the team seemed to run out of steam, whkh is not uncommon in the second game of road trip doubleheaders. After putting up a valiant effort, they ended up with a fifteen point loss, drop- ping their record. to 3 wins and 11 losses. The team is trying to stay posi- tive, understanding that they are a very young team, with a lot of potential. In the meantime, they must not get frustrated by their won-loss record. Their next three · opponents are Hartwick, Hamilton, andWilliam Smith; hopefully, Union will re- verse their fortunes and notch a few victories. Super Bowl Showdown . ·: . •' }.- .. ----------,.i, .. -;;--- wildcard game. by JonF~4er. The second round of the play- Sports Editor offs saw the Dallas Cowboys, As we approach Super Bowl blessed with the privilege of Sunday, where the Dallas Cow- home field advantag-e~ beat ~p a boys will square offagainst the gutsy'PhiladelphiaEagleteamin · Pittsburgh Steelers, let us reflect a gam~ where. Dallas showed on the AFC and NFC playoff· . glimpses of .the tl;!am .that one races. While it is no great sur:.. • ·t>-ack~te;..back, 9hampionships. prise to have the Cowboys and two years ag~. Ip. the .other NFC Steelers in the Super Bowl; the .game; the Green Bay Packers path to the final game llas been pulled off an unbelievable vic- a very exciting and rather inter• tory, knocking offSteve Young, esting journey. Jerry Rice, and the 49ers on San When the playoffs ·began, Frmcisco's home field prevent- most experts and analysts be- ing another Cowboy-49er lieved that this was a two team matchup, race, between the Dallas Co'W- The Indianapolis Colts fol- boys and the San Francisco lowed their upset of San Diego 49ers. After all, these two teams with another shocker - beating have faced each other in the last the Kansas City Chiefs, the team three NFC championships,. with with the best record in the regu- the winner becoming tbe even- lar season. With the Steelers tual Super Bowl Champion. knocking off the Bills, the. AFC In the AFC wildcard games, championship game matched the Buffalo Bills blew out tile up the 'Pittsburgh Steelers and Miami Dolphins in what turne~ the Indianapolis Colts. While out to be Don Shula's final game Jim Harbaugh almost added jus- as the all-time winningest NFL· tice to his nickname with a last coach. The following vveek tbe second Hail Mary pass which Pittsburgh Steelers did every· fell through the hands of re- body a favor by knocking off ceiver Aaron Bailey, the Steelers the Bills and ending any possi· led by Neil o•nonnell, Greg bility ofthe Bills ruining a fifth Lloyd and Kordell (Slash) Super Bowl-sorry Jo1my. Stewart, were able to hold on While Buffalo's dominance in to a 20-16 victory. the AFC over the past six sea- In the NFC championship sons has been remarkable, did game, the Green Bay Packers anybody really want to see were unable to repeat their ter- Thurman Thomas in one rnore rific performance from the Super Bowl? In the other AFC week before~ and eventually ran wildcard game, the Indianapo- out ofsteam against the Cow- lisColts, led by Jim \The Come- boys. Dallas outgunned the back Kid\ Harbaugh, upset Jun- Pack Attack 38-27. So that ior Seau and the San Diego leaves us with Troy Aikman, Chargers in sunny California. Michael Irvin, Emmitt Srnith, The Philadelphia Eagles blew Dei on Sanders and the DaUas out the Detroit Lions in 'One of Cowboys against the Bill the NFC wildcard games;·while Cowher coached Pittsburgh the Green Bay Packers, led by Steelers for Super Bowl Sunday. league MVP Brett Favre,domi- Let's hope the~ Super Bowl will nated an overmatched Atlanta be as exciting as the playoffs Falcon team in the other NFC have been. i 1,...,.... •• ,..~- ..•. ...,. -~~ ~ --·- ~ 'Clrqe crrun:.cnrbiensis • January 25 1996 • Page 19 Men's Hoops Split on Road Trip by Jon Gasthalter Clubs Editor The basketball Dutchmen con- cluded their eleven game homestand on Wednesday, January 16th with a 93 - 80 loss to visiting Utica. Senior guard Jamie Haver lead the :Outchmen with 24 points, hut the Dutchmen could not over- come Utica's strong press and its second half zone defense which stopped Union in its tracks. Haver felt that the press and defense did not allow the Dutchmen to \get into our of- fense.\ The Dutchmen then traveled five and a half hours through a blinding snowstorm on Friday, January 19th to play at St. Lawrence. With the game close at half-time, the Dutchmen, who had been playing well all night, suddenly collapsed, tum- ing the ball over on nine out of its first fomteen possessions to start the second half. Strong offensive performances by Rob TeCarr, Matt Sugarman, and Shola Richards were not enough to overcome the Saints, as the game ended with score of 79- 61 in favor of St. Lawrence. On Saturday, January 20, the Dutchmen concluded their two game road trip with a 66-61 win against Upstate Collegiate Ath- letic Conference opponent Clarkson. Haver and Shola Richards provided the offense for the Dutchmen. Head Coach Bill Scanlon felt that the team's offensive strategy of\execution from the half-court set was pretty good.\ Clarkson made a run in the closing minutes of the game but was thwarted by the strong defensive play of the Union team. Scanlon felt that the team \stuck together and made the plays we had to make down to the wire, which you have to do on the road.\ Over- all, the team played a strong game earning themselves a solid league victory against a tough Clarkson team. The Dutchmen are now six and seven overall and two and four in the Upstate Collegiate Athletic Conference. The team plays host to Hartwick on Tues- day, January 23rd at Memorial Field House before embarking on a five game road trip with games against Upstate Collegiate Athletic Association powers Hamilton and Hobart on Janu- ary 26th and January 27th. Haver felt that going on the road would be a challenge for the in- experienced Union team. \It is not easy to win on the road, we have struggled at home and we have our work cut out for us, but I think we should do all right.\ Women's Ice Hockey though the team is still consid- ered a club sport, the college and coaches hope to bring it up to the varsity level in the years to come. Erin Smyth _ ~ontributing Writer The Union College women's hockey team has. officially started its season. Unofficial practices began in the late fall with a large showing of both experienced and inexperienced players. With the help of the coaches Mark Reed, Tim Benson, and Chip Mulkins, the team of about 25 dedicated women have proven themselves serious to the college community. AI- Increased school funding has made it possible for the women to have more equipment, including new game jerseys. Also, this year, they will be trav- eling more frequently to other schools for games. Sarah Wilbur, an experienced player says, \Since I've been a mem- ber of the team I've seen growth in unity and skill which I hope will form the base we need to play at a college level in the fu- ture.\ So far this year, the team has traveled to Lake Placid and played .a few home games. Scheduled games against a va- riety of club teams remain tQ be played including those at the . college level such as Skidmore, Holy Cross, and RPI. Home games coming up soon will be February 2 at 3:15p.m. against Holy Cross, and February 7 at 2:30 p.m. against RPI. Swimming Teams Having Successful Seasons by Aaron Sicotte contributing writer Once again the men's swim- ming team is tearing up the com- petition, and thewomen are not far behind. Since the start of the season in early November, the men have beat Rochester, Hartwick, Rensselaer, Trinity, and Middlebury. Their only loss came in January to a powerful Williams team. They are led by junior All-Americans, Kevin \The Daddy\ Makarowski and M i c he a I\' Home fr i e $\ Humphries. Both have yet to lose a race, and Humphries set a pool record in the I 00 back at Middlebury. At that meet the men also set a pool record in the 400 medley as they thor- oughly disrnantled an un- matched team. The women's team has lost some close meets, and their record stands at 3-3. Led by undefeated Megan McCarthy, who has already qualified for Nationals, the women are hoping to build on past success as the season draws to a close. Both teams are looking to come away with vic- tories as they take on Hamilton this weekend in Alumni Gym. . ' ' t . .

January 25, 1996 by Dagan LaCorte sports writer the weekend cail1e, the weekend went. Unfortunately for the Union Hockey faithful, the Engineers ofRPI havemaintainedbragging rights in the war of Capital District hockey. The Engineers survived Union\ s early of- fensive onslaught in the first period, and out-workedthe Dutchmen in the second two segments, winning by the score of 4-2. RPI forward Brian Richardson reeked havoc on Union goalie Trevor Koenig, netting a hat trick. Union scored its first goal mid- way through the second period on a nice shot frorn junior defensemen Seabrook Satterlund. Union's other goal came late in the third period while the. Engineers led 4-1. Junior Jay Prentice, in his first game back from an injury scared his first goal ofthe season on assists from Charlie Moxham and Greg Buchanan. The Dutchmen were outshot 33- 26 in 1he game, as. their offensive woes continued. In the last three games Union's offense has netted only four goals, amunberwhich must improve if the Dutchmen intend to win any games. On the bright side, Union's defense has been playing solid hockey, as opponents are only averaging 2.6 PAGE20 goals against Koenig and the Dutch- men. At presentthe Dutchmen have anE.C.A.C.leaguerecor.dof2-7-2, putting them in a three waytieforninth place with Dartmouth and Yale. The Skating Dutchmen have the opportunity to get even with RPI this weekend,. as the Engineers come to Achilles Rink on Friday. In four pre- vious meetings at Achilles Rink, the Dutchmen have only one. victory against the Engineers, coming last sea- son in a 5-2 win. The Dutchmen re- main only three points behind eighth place RPI, making this weekend's game a key one when considering the playoff picture. The Dutchmen will also be playing host to the division I independentteam from the Air Force Academy. It is likely that freshman goalie Leeor Shtrom will get the start· in this non-league game. Shtrom played extremely well on December 10 versus Cornell. In that gameShtrommade45-savesina5-5 . tie, an effort which earned him E. C.A.C. rookie ofthe week honors. Since then, however, Sh1mmhas seen action only once, while Koenig has . played in six consecutive games. Following Air Force, all ofUnion's · . remaining ten games are versus E.C.A.C. op- · ... ponents. With ·;;~~·····~~.,······ twelve games remaining and h :;_,:•+(f:;,::.:·.i 1 i:rtK'.'(!il·;•,, .. ; ' •,--: ' \, .... . . ' ' a unch.arac- r......... ............................ _..... __ ~-~-~-~-~-------~--=-...._._~=~ teristically w e a k E.C.A.C., the Dutchmen have ample opportunity to rise in the league stand- ings. The question re- · mains as to whether the l995-96 Dutchmen have the abil- ity and deter- mination to make some serious waves in iheworldof college hockey. On the boards at the Knickerbocker arena- during 4-lloss to RPI Photo by Laurel Ruma/The Concordiensis Union on tile Offense in loss to RPI Plloto by Laurel Ruma I Tile Concordiensis Women's Hoops 1/26-@ Hamilton 6;00 l/27·@ William Smith 4:00 1/31-@ Middlebury 7:00· Men's Hoops 1/26-@ Hamilton 8:00 1127-@ Hobart 6:00 1131-@ Williams 7:30 Swimming 1127- HAMILTON2:00 Hockey 1/26 -RPI 7:30 1127- AlR FORCE 7:00

