. .., nn.cnr t£nsts The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Volume CXXV Number IX . . . ' . .. . Schenectady, NewYork April II, 1996 Media Invasion in Unabomber Case By Adrian MacLean Editor•in-Cheif After 18 long ye~sa suspect has beeJ'l taken into federal cus- tody in connection with the 3 deaths. and 23 maimings perpe- trated by the so-called \Unabomber.\ The FBI is hold- ing 'Tileodore J. Kaczynski; the decisive lead appears to have been provided by his brother, David Kaczynski, whose wife is I Professor Linda Patrik ef the Union College Philosophy de- partment. A three-day media siege at the Keyes A venue hom .. e of KaczY11ski and Patiik came to ail end Monday when attoml;!y An- · thony P. Bisceglie held a press conference on their behalf. Late last summer, while cleaning out his mother's Lombard, Illinois home, David Kaczynski found writings by his brother which showed a similarity to the mani- festo by the Unabomber pub- · lished in the New York Times and the Wa~·hington Post. According to Bisceglie, h was ''similarities in ideology, phraseology, and. spelling'; which led him to sus- pect his brother. Through Bisceglie, Patrik and · Kaczynski expressed two main concerns: that Th,eodore Kaczynski is entitled to a fair trial and may be innocent, and that no more lives be lost. They are not planning to make any further statement to the media now or during the triaL TI1e path leading to this arrest was arduous for the family. TI1ey were cautious about their conclu- sions, and according to one FBI agent \the relatives were reluc- tant to come f01ward.\ \David wanted very much to believe that Ted was not involved,\ Bisceglie said. Due to the media besieging her in her home, Professor Patrik has been unable to teach two of her classes. Currently she has 40 Continued on page3 Reporters from across the nation wait outside Prof, Patrik and her husband David Kazcynski's residence on Keyes Avenue for comments-Photo by Laural Rnma I Tlte Concordiensis . MTV.Video To Be Prod~ced at Union Hockey Coach Delventhal ·Resigns \8()' s pop with a rock edge,\ says Abbott, like a \cross between by Aileen Quigley Hootie and the· Blowfish and · Staf/Writter Pearl Jam.\ Radio stations like Union's 0 ~ WRUC and the \The Edge\ (103.5 and 103.9) college as a whole, rni~ht very . have been carrying advertise- . well experience the oppottunity of a lifetime this upcoming week- end! The band Far Cry will be making their debut on Saturday night in Memorial Chapel at 8:00 PM. Tickets are $3.00 and are available. This price covers the three acts (ii1 order of appearance): Your Momma, Cold Palace Kings, and Far ·Cry. During the perfor- mrulces; Far Cry will be filming a video! This is Union's golden oppor- tunity to \break\ this band and essentially help them become fa- mous, according to Ned Abbott. Mr. Abbott was contacted by the band's manager, who sought out Union as a \venue to play,\ at- tempting to avoid the club scene. Their normal forum for expres· sion includes such major cities as New York, Boston and Montreal. Together with Student Affairs and the band's drummer; Greg Lugere, Mr. Abbott hopes to bring to Schenectady not only an · unforgettable concert, but a new · · level ofprestige.asweH. He feels that Far Cry has the potential to be the next R.E.M. ments for this concert, along with, Metro land. If Far Cry's type of musical genre catches on, the impact on the music industry could be very Continued on page 3 Jon Gasthalter Staff Writer Bruce Delventhal, the head hockey coach at Union since 1988 resigned on Mo!ld.ay, April 9. . Delventhal, who came to Union when it competed at the Division III level, led the team to three ECAC tournaments and one NCAA tournament and was among the forces that helped move Union into the Division I .program in 1991. In Division I play, the Dutch- men qualified for the playoffs twice. Delventhal was named the \ECAC Coach of the Year\ fol- lowing the 1993-94 season in which the team went 15-11-4 overall and 10-9-3 in the ECAC. · finishing in 6th place. However, things beg~ to take a downward tum. Despite the fact that the 1994-95 team made the playoffs after finishing I Oth in the ECAC, they lost to • Princeton in the opening round. . Finally, this past season was a disaster. The Dutchmen who were ranked 1Oth in the ECAC Pre-Season Coaches Poll, fin- ished 7-19-4 overall and 4-15-3 in the league, finishing in I lth • place and missing the playoffs. Throughout the season, Aside from the help of univer- sities, TI1e Dave Matthew.f Band and R.E.M had their unique sig- nature sounds. The music mix of Far Cry has been described as · . . . . · Delventhal was criticized for his for Wruc llas orgamzed a concert for 1 k f t t . d. 1 · t t this Saturday night. Photo by Laura! Ruma/ Concordiensis ac 0 8 ra egy an us cons an / . changing of lines, which did not allow the players to gel into co- hesive units. Additionally, players and coaches alike feel that Coach Delventhat was more than a com- petent coach. He was instrumen- tal in bringing the program to Division I and making it competi- tive with 'other teams in the teague. \He took the program from Division III to Division I and spent a lot of time on the pro- gram,\ said Assistant Coach Kevin Sneddon. Freshman. defenseman Mark Will feels that Delventhal helped him and others improve their game in preparation for the com- petition at the Division I level. \If I had to compare the way I was playing in October to the way I was playing in March, I'd think · I was two different players. The one that played in March was ten times better.\ Junior forward Jaime Antoine echoed the senti- ments of many players, \We are just going to look at the future and try to decide who is going to be the next coach.\ A national search for a new coach will be conducted, and As- sistant Coach Sneddon will take over the recruiting and condition- ing aspects of coaching for the remainder of the school year. I· 1 \

\' i: • ' t. I. News Friday, April J:2 Aprill8· ' . May2· May9 Mayl6 ·. ·UNION COLLEGE CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT · · WEEKLYlNCIDENT SUMMARY . . . . lr SATAUROAY, MARCIJ3~, 1996 ~ MONDA ~.~·APIUL~s; 1·996 DATMIME . . . LOCATION . . . . INCIDEiNT . . .,_. . . SATURDAY,MARCH'~0,1?96:.. . .. - f• 9:45 AM Fox I Davidson Lot VANDALISM: Student's car dama,!:led 1:24 PM Fox House area RECKLESS ENDANGERMENrf: Student drove vehicle~ across sidewalk and lawn. Conduct Charges 5:21 PM 7:57. PM ·11:20 AM. 11:40 AM \' 12:28 PM 9:00PM 9:45 PM Ray.mond Reamer Center West College West College Davidson Campus · South College West College Wade Lupe Apts. WEDNESDAY, APRIL,3 1 1996: 10:15 AM Campus THURSDAY APRIL4', 1996: ·filed. _ .J : ' • ' V AND7\LISM /RECKLESS EN'D:.ANGE:RMENT: Student's 'room window brok-en ove~night.' \Glass fell oFJto bed-narrowly mi·ssing student. · ·- :) VANDALISM:. Glass in entiydoor broken. LlFE:SAFETY VIOLATION: Room fire extinquisher qisch~rged. Debris st~ewn af~und ~oon;, electrical safety issue-multiple extension cords. Ufe Safty Violation. Notice filed PROPERTY DAMAGE: Loadingdockdatnaged. Alpparently c:;tused by v~hidle backing into the dock. .. \ VAND.;\.LISM.: Student's roo:m window broken. VANDALISM: Traffic coilWol sign damaged .. HARASSMENt: Student r~<siding off campus received h~assing and threateni~g .phone calls. SPD report filed. · · FIRE ALARM/LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: False fire alarm. Pull: bo'\ on 2nd floor activated. Conduct Charges filed. THEFT: Library staff reports food items missing from break room and circulation desk Incidents occurred over several week period. UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY: Intoxicated student went threugh privacy ·do'br activating the alarm. HARASSMENT: Personal threat made by former employeeagainst supervisor. UFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Student's room smoke detector damaged. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. HARASSMENT: Annoyance telephone calls. NOISE COMPLAINT: Resident called to report loud music and noise creating a disturbance at I :30 AM. PARKING VIOLATION: Two students participated in fraudulent registration of vehicles to register a freshman's car. Conduct Charges filed. 2:01 AM Fieldhouse VANDALISM: Window in training room broken. 12:30 PM Fox/Davidson Lot VANDALISM: Student'scartires slashed. Second occurrence. 8:45 AM Wade Lupe Apts. NOISE COMPLAINT: Resident reported loud floise, party activity awakening other residents in early morning hours. 4:20PM Lamont Lot PARKING VfOLATION:Vehicleimmobilized. . Repeat unregistered violations. 8:15 PM Fox House PROPERTY DAMAGE: Portal over student's room door fell out. Prior- damqge. FR.lDA Y,APRIL'5, 1996: 2:01 AM ' Wade Lupe Apt~. 3:20PM Campus SATURI)A. Y, APRIL 6, 19.96: 1:30 AM- · Fox House · 1:51 AM 3:20PM 5:15 PM · FoxHouse Richmond Area · Raymond/Potter SUNDAY,APIU.L7, 1996: I :06 AM . Of.f Campus 9:35PM \ Lam·ont Lot 4:13PM · College Center NOISE COMPLAINT: Resident repq_r;ted loud noise caused by students awakenedhim. PARKING WOLATION: Studentfradulently . registered vehicle for a freshman. Conduct Charges filed. VANDALISM: Furnitur.e in student's room damaged. Conduct Char.ges filed. · VANDALISM: Courtesy telephone damaged. · DISORI>ERL Y CONDUCT: Students creating a distrubance outside of the Residence Hall. VANDALISM: Parking sign d~rnaged. Post broken. . VANDALISM/DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Students apprehended and detained by SPD for removal of City traffic control signs. Conduct Charges filed. PARKlNG VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized. Repeat unregistered vio!ations. 1 TRESPASS: Visitors reportedly searching trash for redeemables. Subjects left campus. SUSPICIOUS PERSONS: Group of juveniles walking campus looking into ears then entered culvert system. Located, identified, and advised off campus. One subject stated that he was a student's ''little brother\. · .Write for.The Concordiensis. We need photogra- ··phers;writers,· copy editqrs, advertising and lay- out ·staff Please contact the office at x6155. \ . '· i ~ ,. ,, l f ~ .. I

f ~ .. I . . . The Conco-rdien~is • Aprilll, 1996 • Fage 3 Campus News An Easier Transition: New Additions to Term Abroad by Stephanie Slobotkin, Nqws Editor · As 1nany students and involved faculty see it, a tenn abroad can be a very shock- ing and scary experience. However, .in or-der to alleviate any prior tensions and associate students with their new ten-week home, the Office of International Programs m1d the Office of the Dean of Sttldents have worked together to create pre-departure m1d re-eiltry intercultural workshops for students participating in a Union College tenn abroad p'rogran1. Its .purpose is to expose students to' issues that arise upon e11tering a foreign culture. Beginning with Nati.onal Health Sys- tems 1996 and aU fall 1996 programs, an students' selected to participate in a Union tenn abroad will be required to .attend a pre-departure workshop 't:oilducted by Edgar Letriz, Assistant Deatl of Student. The pre-departure workshop will engage in topics that will help a Union student cope with the many differences posed to them from foreign cultures. The woik- sfmp will include topics such as culture shock, ctoss~cultural communication pat- terns, cultural differences, among others. TI1e\'oean of Students hopes that it will help students keep an open mind when entering a new_ culture and appreciate the difference in hmguage, food and other cul- tural differences. TI1e workshop will also deal with emo- tional and cognitive phases of a term abroad. Along with excitement, stlldents often experience homesickness and isola- tion. Therefore, the pre-departure will prepare students so they will know what to.expect while they are abroad. .:. ~ Along with the different foods and strange languages, students will be pre- pared to deal. with the \sub-innuendos\ of the-behavior of people in ~hat culture. They wiU leave Union with a mind-set that theworld revolves arou11d each and every culture separately, yet simultaneouslY:, and . . non is better than the next. Thus students will beinforined about etlmocentricity and how to avoid allotting certain stereotypes. Dean Letriz commented: \TI1e pre-de- parture pr.ogram will aUow stud~nts ·to have a deeper appreciatimi of term abroad ... tnore than just time away from Union. It should be a cognitive, affective, growing experience where the students leam about themselves as well as others.'' . , The Dean also mentioned that at m ore COMING SOON: SPIKE LEE by JODY MOUSSEAU Staff Writer As part ef the Diversity Workshop for the spring tenn, the Peer Facilitators are hosting Spike Lee, motion picture direc- tor, writer, producer, and actor, to speak at Union. Mike Baskies, treasurer of the Peer Facilitators, stated, \When it came time to plan the diversity workshop for the spring, we decided tl1at the most impor- tant issue for the Union community, and for the nation in general, is still stereotyp- ing and prejudice.\ Spike Lee has been invited to come to campus andspeak about racism in America and the portrayal. of this issue in his films. The event hosting Spike Lee is a con- tinuation of a series of diversity speakers. When asked if any specific incidents played a role in the decision to l1ost Lee, Kate Goldman, a member ofthe.Peer Fa- cilitators, stated, \No the general lack of diversity at our esteemed institution definately played a role in our decision. The Peer Facilitators have been coimnit- ted to addressing issues such as diversity since the ~:,rroup was founded.\ Other events in the diversity series have included Susan Shown Harjo, Melanie Kaye Kantrowitz, the Marshall Arts Ex· pedition, and the co-sponsoring of Mii1i Bntce Pratt. MTV VIDEO from front page ... significant. Radio stations are ranked in the College Mil.\'ic Journal from 1st to 4th tiers, with fourth tier being the high- est. WRUC has been ranked as a 3rd tier station, which Abbott explained as a crossroad where we could become one of the top stations or sink into medioc- rity. He sees Far Cry as our ticket to tJte top. ' After The University of Georgia at Ath- ens held their Dave Matthews concert-, and he began to get more recognition, it achieved a 4th tier ranki11g. Such a sta- tu's would mean more respect for WRUC, Lee has produced, directed, and written many films including \Do the Right Thing,\ \Jungle Fever,\ \Mo Better Blues,\ .. Malcolm X,\ and ''She's Gotta Have It.\ Social stigmatism, racism, and violence are the primary issues>confronted in his films. \Do the Right Thing,\ which was re- leased in 1989, prophetically depicted a situation similar to the Los Angeles Ri- ots,which occurredyears.later. Spike Lee, through his films, has been a voice which has evinced the social inequality and rac- ism wl1ich is predominant in society. Due to Spike Lee's high profile and the controversial topics which will be adressed, the organization oftheevent has included safety measures. Goldman stated, \We have taken precautions to en- sure that thiswill be a safe event. We have met with cmnpus operations and security .in order to make sure that the event goes smoothly.\ ~ The event will take place pn Friday, May 10, at 8pm in Memorial Chapel. Spike Lee will speak for approximately an hour and a half, and a question and answer ses- sion ofthe same length will follow. The tu1110ut is expected to be large, and mem- bers of the Union College community will be pennitted into the event. It is an honor to have a speaker of great caliber come and speak at Union, and with the assis- tance of all parties involved, the event will prove to be a success. and for the college as a whole. We may get asked to host. more concerts and to play limited-access music on the air, like rare demo tapes, samples of as-yet- unreleased material. Memorial Chapel will be the fomm for Far Cry's debut, along with Cold Pal- ace Ki11gs m1d Union's very own Your Momma. Greg.Lugere suggested having Cold Palace King.-; as part of the con- cert, adding their rock touch to the total picture. For further infonnation on where to purchase tickets, stay tuned to WRUC at 89.7 FM. Please call the radio station at 388-6151 with any questions. \ accelerateduniversities, pre-departures are a nonnal part of going a'Qroad. He hopes ·that this will be the case at Union and stu- dents. will come to realize that this man- datory addition to the tenn abroad pro- grain is for tl1e students' best interest. Additionally, upon retuming to Union, students will be offered the opportunity to attend a voluntary re\entry program that ·will focus on the experience abroad and the transition back to the American cul- ture and life at Union. This workshop will be held for the sole purpose of benefiting ~ the students and their well oeing. Dean Letriz suggested that some people have.dif- ficulties adjusting back to life at Union; some have grown and developed in new ways and most become more globally aware . Although there have only been pilot ses- sions for the re-entry workshop, Dean Letriz says that students have enjoyed it thoroughly. After speaking with one of the students who attended, Craig Pike commented: \Gennany was my new home ... but I experienced loneliness. and other aspects ofculture shock. When Dean Letriz presented the program to me I real- ized that my feelings were nonnal and expected. I also learned that although my feelings of isolation seemed negative, I could easily make them positive by reflect- ing on them.\ Craig also mentioned that had either program been offered earlier he would have been more equipped to enter Gennany and cope with the many emo- tions he experienced. Along with Dean Letriz, William Tho- mas, Director of International Programs . felt strongly about the new addition to tenn abroad. He said that prior to these pro- grams, Students' conflicts about their ex- periences outside of Union College were dealt with on an individual basis for those who sought counseling. He commented: \With the installment of this- progr~m all students who have trouble adjusting will know that this is a good way to receive helpful advise.\ Both Letri.z and Thomas hope that the intercultural pre-departure workshop and re-entry workshops will encourage more students to go term abroad. They feel that the programs will lesson any possible skep- ticism .1 student may have upon leaving and retuming to America. TI1ey are confident that the workshops will be a beneficial preparation for what they say, \will undoubtedly be a wonder- ful experience abroad.\ Sun and Fun in Seville Diana Sedita · Editor Emerita TI1is past winter term, 31 students trav- eled 6,000 miles away to study in beauti- ful Seville, Spain where· the temperature rarely dropped below 60 degrees. While in Spain, everyone had to become accus- tomed to different cultural ideas. Fortunately, for those of us who longed for the 1980's, we were able to relive most of th~ old fads. For it1stance, people en- joy roller-skating instead of roller-blading. Also, people seem to Jove tight, \cut off your circulation\ multi-colored jeans. It was as though they painted their jeans di- rectly on their legs! The music also brought back memories ... Patrick Swayze, Vani_lla Ice and Tiffany were among some of the art- ists. We should say that many mainstream bands that we listen to in the US can also be heard in Spain. A favorite song of most people on the trip, and Spaniards too, was \Missing You.\ The clubs and bars were always fun or interesting to say the least. Most Span- ish men seem to think that American women are stupid and easy. They would hardly ever take \no\ for an answer and often times, Union women were forced to pretend that one of the six Union guys was their boyfriend. Additionally, much to the dismay of the six Union guys, men always had to pay a hefty cover charge while women got into the clltbs for free with many men buying them drinks. ·Many places took on the identity .of cer- tain sites on the Union campus. For ex- ample, most on the trip frequented the cafe \El Homo de Buenaventura\ and this was Jtmsingly dubbed the College Center. Also, a few of us felt we were at a frater- nity when we went to the Hard Rock Cafe in Madrid when we stood up on our chairs to do the YMCA. Some of the trip's highlights included · sipping tinto de veranos whit~ laying on the beach. We also tanned ourselves by the rivet in February which added to our . euphoria. · ' We saw many great sights that were · both educational and fun. Along with see- ing the La Alhambra, the Royal Palace and Prado we ventured through the cites trying to avoid looking like a mob of tour- ists. Unfortunately, this was often times difficult, especially when one of our tour guides used a megaphone to speak to us. The trip included new foods (some- times we were not always sure what we were eating, so mealtime was always an adventure), a new culture, and basically a new way of life, very different from our small-seeming world at Union. Spain is a wonderful country, and generally we all had a great time and will never forget all that we encountered. runabomber Con'd students registered for her Philosophy of Existential Literature course, and 18 students in Ancient Theories of At1. Al press time, it was expected that hex classes would begin meeting again 01 Wednesday. Despite this being such a high profile case, Union students and faculty appeal to have resisted the temptation to en- courage the feeding frenzy of the me- . dia, and have instead offered \no com- ment.\ Union has been hounded all week by high profile and tabloid media. The Concordiensi.\' alone has received solici- tations from Time, Good Mornin~ America, CNN, USA Today, and the Lm Angeles Times. Offers of $250 a da~ were made to Concordiensis staff to re- search Patrik and search for photos. Ou of respect for the privacy of Prof. Patrik and Mr. Kaczynski, The Concordiensi.\ and its staff refused all such offers. Tite Philosophy department was per- sistently solicited for comment, and sometimes on the verge of harassment throughout the week. Many represen- tatives of newspapers, television net· works and even tabloid shows such as Inside Edition visited or phoned the of flee, asking for infonnation about Pro· fessor Patrik.

World News The Paradox of Perot and the Third PaJiy · / . by Matt Sandler , World News Staff Ross Pemt, the billionaire turned political activist, is the real enigma of the 1996 elec- tion. Pat Buchanan's influence on the Republican party plat- form at the Convention is in- triguing. Bob Dole is in a unique position to pass legisla- tion and run against President Clinton as the \43rd Do Noth- ing President.\ This move would be reminiscent of Harry S. Truman adopting the Repub- lican party platfonn, and Con- gress faili11g to enact the legis- lation, allowing Truman torun and win against the \80th Do Nothing Congress.\ But it is what Ross Perot intends to do that has the Republicans and the Democrats on edge. Ross Perot's efforts during Clinton's first years in office were to rally against the North Ameri~an Free Trade Agreement (NAF:TA), and to create a third party, Tite Reform Party. Now his efforts are concentrated on getting The Reform Party on the ballot in all fifty states. He has recently won the battle in Maine as in other states. Mr. Perot's auxiliary or maybe pri- mary agenda is setting the .stage for another run for the Presi- dency. In 1992, Ross Perot won 19 percent of tile popular vote, with no electoral votes, due to his common sense, can do atti- tude. The general consensus is that Ross Perot was a vehicle of protest, but this statement is both true and is false. The statement is true in that it brought people together who were disgruntled about thebud'- get deficit, gridlock in Wash- ington, the economy, and poli• tics as usual. Where the state- ment is false is in the view that Perot was a vehicle of protest which delivered the Presidency to Bill Cl'inton away from George Buslt. It is true Ross Perot took more voters away from Bus1t, but he also took voters away from Clinton. Bill Clinton won the Presidency because people were fed upwith the Recession and wanted change. President Bush was extremely popular after the GulfWar, with approval ratings as high as 90 percent. Bush's failure in tenns of the economy and in convincing people he understood their problems, matched against his foreign poli.cy victories, was what brought his defeat. So, then what is Ross Perot's agenda? Ross Perot .wants re- form of the political process. Perot's m.~ssage is appealing even if his negatives are higher than his positives. TI1e prevail- ing view is that he would not reach 19 percent oftbe votethat he received in 1992 right now. . ~. JI..ND lHE. . 8tnV HOOW' Met(JAf OF tJ,&W;H AWARl> WIN~\SR 16 ... Q. UORtOY PI#! Overheard. .... Perot's Refoqn Party, which has otherthird parties merging with his party to get ballot access in all fifty states, is what makes him interesting in this election. :Js Perot using this party, as said before, for another run at the Presidency? Is his agenda to have' this organization in place to have leverage over the two party system to keep his agenda going? If so, t~en it is prob- ably the largest Political Action Committee(PAC}ever. PAC's are not entirely bad, butthey are an issue that )!;,rot rallies against - special interests . .Spe- cial interests are not just the Tobacco, Steel, Sugar and Unions, but can be reform Groups-. to any vm:iety of cause. Is Perot',s agenda som.ething more? l11ird parties take up votes, Whether it is 25 percent of the popular vote to the Progressive Party (Bull Moose Party) in 1912, or 2 percent to the Pro- gressive party of 1948, voters are taken away from the Repub- licans and Democrats. In 1912, the sp!it in the Republican party gave Woodrow Wilsen the elec- tion win. Third parties lower the percentage of wins in a popular vote. A, President elected by a low percentage of popular votes has a weak man- date or no mandate. Take, for example, President Clinton's failed attempt at Health Care Refonn with a 43 percent popu- lar vote victory among other \I was with some Vietnamese recently; and some ,of them were smoking two cigarettes at the same time. That's the kind of customers we need/ Well, not exactly.\- Senator Jesse Helms, Vietnam's chief obstacle in Washington, at a dinner to promote North Car~olina tobacco. Source- The New York Times mistakes he made· in tryi11g to reform hellith care. Since vot- ers split the ticket, congress and the President are usually com- prised of opposite parties, A President with a low percent wins in popular vote, and an opposition party control of Con- gress leads to gridlock - noth- ing getting done. A figure like Ross Perot can say look at the ' gridlock, allthese problems, we can fix them, vote for my party. Chances are The Reform Party could not and would not witt the · presidency for many elections to come. However, the Reform Party is not out. Ross Perot's party succeeds when the two parties fail. Usually the case is the two · main parties gobb1e up the third party's ideas and the thirdparty disappears. What is different here is Ress Perot has $4 bil- lion that can bankroll this party and mlll<:e it last~ in addition to the m·oney of the. supporters that can be tapped into. If Perot's Reform Party stays, it contin- ues to draw away votes from the Democrats and the Republi- cans. This means a divided vote, a lower popular percent- age win, a weak or no mandate, and ·a strengthet1ing of The Re- form Party. Ross Perot clearly expresses the view that he wants to save the country for children a:nd grandchildren, which everybody wants, but his party succeeds in the gridlock. That is the paradox of the Ross -· Perot. For him to succeed, the others must fail. His party goe~ ttp by bringing the others down. Ifthe Refonn Party wins the Presidency, the Republicans and tlre Denrocrats draw votes away· ih the. next electioo and weaken the rnandate of Tlie Refonn Party in that eleytion. Assuming there is a tri-party influence in Congress, there is the coalition building (different from today), with -more bar- gaining and more horse trad- ing that TI1e Reform Party ral- lies against. Enter the lin~ item veto which will be signed by President Clinton. The mea- sure goes into effect on Janu- ary 1 , 1997, and gives the presi- dent the power to delete items that he does not like, rather than vetoing the whole hill. A realistic view is that these par- ties ate trading favors to get hills passed, and the line item deletes those favors, commonly known as pork, and no bill passes and nothing gets don·e. 1\lso~ with the Not In My Back Yard (NIMBY) factor, the pork that Congressmen or women give to their constituents is good, so long as it is not given to others. People's cynicism grows, the paradox\is complete. The Reform Party has many good ideas and motives, but the effect of a third party is a factor that must be considered. ·, ' .. !

World News The Shortcomings of American Foreign Policy . . ' - ' ' . by Anand Rao I World News 8ditor In a little more than two months, I will be graduating from Uttion CoJlege. Thus,to-- day marks the begjuning of what will be my very br;ief ten- ure as World News Editor Of the Concordiensis. For my inau- gural week, a general look at the world seems appropriate. When at}alyzin,g intemational affairs, too many specialist~ tend to overlook the struggles of individual human beings. This problem was massively reinforced by the fall of the So- viet Union· in 1991. Over the last few years, how many times have you heard a conservative commentator tritlmphantly .re- ferring to the United States as the world's only remaining su- perpower? Many Americans talk as if all.ofthe world's prob- lems are solved now that the Soviet Union is gone.. Fprget the poverty,forget:the corporate downsizing, because big busi- * United States Secretary .of Commerce Ronald H. Brown was among nearly three dozen Americans killed in a plane crash that occurred near the main airport at Dubrovnik, Croatia. Traveling with Secre- tary Brown were several Ameri- can business executives who had committed themselves to helping rebui.fd the shattered Balkan ecdnomy. * h1 the war-tom West African ness is happy and communism is: dead! Unfortunately, such an attitude will not he of much use in the next century. For forty-five years, the gov- emment of the United States, heavily influenced by profit- minded capitalists, was trans- fixed by the gpal of destroying those elements that supported the utopian ideals of commu- nism. Not only did our govern- ment try to contain the Soviet Union, but it also actively in- terfered in the affairs of those African and Asian co11ntries which became independent af .. ter 1945. Innumerable trag- edies and horrors resulted from the decision ofthe United States to support anticom·munist authoritarians in Chile, Indo- nesia, Haiti, Zaire, Pakistan, and elsewhere; At its most ex- treu1e, the ·united States gov- ernment, encouraged by the ef- forts of Joseph McCarthy, Ri- chard Nixon, and J .. Edgar Hoover, <;:hose to disrupt the lives of suspected American state of Liberia, thousands of residents fled tile capital city of Monrovia as fighting continued between Government soldiers and rebels loyal to a besieged militia leader. * The annistice that ended the Korean War in 1'953 was vio- lated as troops of the Commu- ilist North entered the sensitive demilitarized zone (DMZ) be- tween North and South Korea. Although some American offi- cials saw a cause for alarm the leftists . Within the framework of Cold War politics, the United States played a de.cisive role in shaping the world from 1945 to 1990. Now that America's businessmen have finally ac- complished th!i:ir goal of de- stroying the Soviet Union, the United States government is fi- nally realizing that the world it . helped create is a terrible mess. One billion adults in this world are functionally illiterate, and close to another one billion people do not have access to potablewater. Viruses, plagues, and diseases af all kinds are promising to create major epi- demics in the following de- cades, The gap between rich and poor never ceases to .get wider. All the current talk about the diminishing threat of a. nuclear war is nonsense, given the frightening pace of nuclear proliferation throJ1gh- out the world. In Mozambique, Cam.bodi a, Guatem a 1 a, Myanmar, Bolivia, Lebanon, secretive regime of North Ko- rea has repeatedly violated the 1953 truce agreement in the past. * The government of Great Britain continued to grapple with the problem of repairing its disease-afflicted cattle indus- try. Although the British gov- ernment has tried to downplay the danger posed to the general public by \mad cow disease,\ it may ultimately face the un- pleasant. task of ~illing at least Rate Of Infant Mortality Per 1,000 Live Births: Selected Countries, 1995 14 8. 8 audi Arabia aiti· Afghanistan 153 Source: 1996 World Almanac and Book of Facts I ' and many other places, Pax Americana is a synonym for continuing misery. I am not trying to blame America for all of the world's problems, hut the United States government has not used its power wisely since 1945. In- stead of emphasizing the issues of human rights, arms control, and humanitarian leadership, the United States has repeatedly used its military prowess as a means of directing the flow of world events. Our greedy ob- session with free trade has also led us to minimize the impor- tance of appalling human rights violations in certain areas ofthe world. While President Clinton threatens to incinerate the ci- vilians of Iraq if Saddam Hussein tries to disrupt the flow of oil out of the Middle East, he turns a blind eye to China's continuing destruction of Tibetan autonomy an.d cul- ture. For the sake of maintain- ing a lucrative trade relation- ship, is the United States going 15,000 cows a week over ape- riod of five or six years. Such an operation could cost billions of dollars. Presently, tl1e United Kingdom has no more than a handful of-incinerators that are used to destroy about l ,000 dead cows a week. * Contradicting its image as an ever-expanding and bloated bu- reaucracy, a United Nations ad- ministrative officer announced that the world orga- nization expects to cut $250 million from its operating ex- penses by the end of 1997. Ac- cording to Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the largest cuts will come in admin- istrative services, including conference costs, weekend and night work, publications, and planning pTograms to fight poverty and enhance the status ofwotnen. The UN also hopes to· eliminate 800 professional jobs from its payroll. * Fighting continued between Russia and rebel forces in the mutinous republic ofChechnya, which has been trying to secede from Russia since late 1994. This latest round of fighting occurred despite a unilateral cease-fire announced by Rus- sian President Boris N. Yeltsin. * Libya became the focus of Americart concern as Secretary of Defense William J. Perry announced that the United States would not allow the North African state to·com- plete its construction of an u.tt- derground chemical weapons plant. Perry did not rule out the to do nothing when the Chinese tyrants crush political freedom in Hong Kong next year? Mo- rality is still sorely lacking in our nations foreign policy. In our world today, too many governments spend money on guns and tanks instead of schools and hospitals. America's anns manufacturers, however, are hardly unhappy with this dangerous situation. Too many individuals suffer at the hands of authoritarian re- gimes that can be either re- moved from ·power or liberal• ized with assistance from the United State's. Now is the time for Bill Clinton, AI Gore, Newt Gingrich, Bob Dole, and even Jesse Helms to stop viewing the world as nothing more thart a bunch of weak little countries that need to be controlled and manipulated for the sake of sat- isfying a handful of wealthy businessmen. These countries have people, and these people matter as much £J.S every single citizen of the United States. possibility of a military attack jfLibya does not halt its chemi- cal weapons program. * Hamas, a militant Islamic group, called for a resumption of suicide attacks against Israel to counter a crackdown by Is- raeli authorities in the West Bank. Last month, a wave of terrorist bombings in Israel killed sixty-two people. *• One of the worst prison re- volts in the history of Argen- tina took a tum for the better as inmates at a maximum se- curity prison in B~;~enos Aires surrendered seventeen hostages and called off a weekend revolt. Unfortunately, Argentinean of- ficials now fear that copycat re- bellions will break out in other jails across the country. * In Antwerp, Belgian authori- ties intercepted an Iranian ship loaded with advanced arms and explosives. According to Israeli Prime Minister Shimon Peres, these weapons and explosives were intended. for attacks on Jewish and Israeli targets. * In a story that has connections to Union Coll~ge, federal agents in Montana detained 1l1eodore J. Kaczynski, who is suspected of being the Unabomber. The Unabomber is a terrorist who has left a 17 -year-long trail of bombs across the United States that have killed 3 people and maimed 23 others.

'· . . , ,, \ ' Business · . : · . . . U:::lic <Loucorbicnlids April II~ 1996 Page 6 ···- .... 1_--::. -_ -_ -_-_ -_-_- _- _- _-:::;: li'rlllD -· Business The Economic Implications of Mad Cow Disease THE DECLINE OF NETWORK TELEVISION Akin Sawyerr Business Editor by Anand Rao World News Editor After a lot of speculation and political bickering, the British gove~nment admitted that mad cow disease (BSE) could be a cause of Creutzfeld-Jacob dis- ease. Creutzfeld~Jacob disease is a disease that forts the human brain. This announcement led to a drastic fall in the demand for Britis_h beef and dairy products. The British economy will non the less be affected· by the country's cattle problems. Share and bond prices were adversely affected by the world wide ban imposed an British beef by the European Union. every cow that is sl'aughtered. Estimated payments to fanners will total about fifteen billion dollars. The government will also have to absorb the one hun,. dred and eighty dollar ,cost of burning each cow. Some mem- bers are even suggesting that farmers be bought new cows. There was a time when the Columbia Broadcasting System (CBS) Was called the. Tiffany Network. Walter Crenkite, Mary Tyler Moore, and a flurry of acelaimat the Emmy Awards were indications of the power, quality, and populadty of CBS. Altheugh the National Broad- casting Company (NBC) and the American Broadcasting Com- pany (ABC) never matched the prestige of CBS, the combined forces of these three networks comprised rute ofthe most pow- erful institutions in the business world for several decades. In the last decade, however, network tel,evision 's virtual mo~ nopoly over small-screen enter- tainment has been severely di- minishedhy the growing appeal of cable televi·sion. Because cable television offers -a very wide range of programming that is often more daring and more explicit than the material-aired on CBS, NBC, and ABC, it may eventually replace netwm;ktele- vision altogether. While nudity and foul language are controver- sial subjects on the mainstream networks {just look at \NYPD Blue\) cabletelevision is not limited in any such way. On the welfare side of things, workers made redundant would also have to be compensated through welfare payments. Based on calculations by the British treasury, social security benefits may increase by one and a half billion dollars, if the en- tire beef and dairy farming work force were fired. Predictions of ·economic catastrophe by some economic analysts are un- founded. Although it will cost a lot ofmoney to carry out the slaughter of as huge a number of cows as has been proposed, the costs will not be enough to paralyze the British economy. Cable TV is Growing Again · Subscribe.rs t~ cable·pay television services, in millions • British leaders have proposed . that as many as fifteen thousand cows should be kiUed on a daily basis to rid the country of its in- fected heard of cattle. This pro- posal has been described as too drastic by some members ofthe British parliament, but it may be the only way confidence in Brit- ish beef can be restored. If the British carry out their mass slaughter plan, unemployment and inflation may rise, and it will cost tax payers and much as thirty billion dollars to execute such a grandiose plan. The slaughter ofBritish cattle will also affect the country's bal- ance of payments. The British deficit which stood·at ten billion dollars for fiscal 1995 may double. This is not a very good sign for the·British economy·, but,. as long as the deficit does notre,. main at such a high level for too long, huge damages would not occur. If the worst comes to the worst, the British gross domes,. tic product (GOP) may fall by 1.2%. SEH.\'ICE Showtime The Movie Chanel Cinemax Playboy Channel Disney Channel StarT elevision .4 .4 Sl'BSCRIBERS * British farmers are surely go- ing to be affected by whatever measures the government de- cides to take to curb the country's problems, but tax pay- ers will be the hardest hit. The government is currently shelling out up to $1200 to farmers. for The national farmers union proposed that the government selectively slaughter older herds of cattle that had reached the end *Includes about 6 million homes Source: Paul Kagan Assoc.; A§ the accowpanying chart shows, the number of subscrib- ers to cable television has grown considerably in this decade alone. The, Disney Channel, aided by the unprecedented suc- cess of studio films such as \Aladdin\, \Beauty and the Beast\ \Tfie Lion King\ and \Toy Story\ has seen its sub- scription JP.Qr.e than triple since 1990. The veteran networks of cable television have also wit- nessed a healthy gro\Vth in their subscription. If ;current trends continue, one can be sure that the face ofpopular television will be radically different for our chil- dren and grandchildren. carrying Disney as a basic service The New york Times The Air Force Has Jobs We're hiring. And we'll train you in one of more than 250 high-tech skills. Then when your enlistment is \lp; your skills will be in demand in a civilian job. Plus, we'll help you pay for college while you're in the Air Force. We also have a plan for you to have money for school when your Air Force tour is over. For more information call 1 ,.8()0423-USA:F or contact your local Air Force recruiter. -.:11:)=> Graduating??? Unsure of what you'll be doing after gradutation? Do you have office experience, . some typing, computer literate and service orientation demanded by the heathcare field? Training oppurtunities are available for self- motivated students looking for an entry into -healthcare. Call: Med,.Scribe, Inc. {716)-262,. 3694, or email to in~dscrib@vivanet.com. Resumes to: Med,.Scribe, Inc., 215 Alexander St., Rochester, NY 14607 .. A enc , no fees The Economics Department is inviting student$ tQ a l for membership in micron Delta Epsilon the national Economics honor society. In order to qualify for membership in ODE, you must have a 3.0 cumulative grade point average or better,and mus~ also have an average of at least 3.0 in economics courses. You must be a junior or a senior. You· must have taken Economics 1;2, 20, 31, and 42, but you do not have to be an economics major; non-majors are welcome to apply if they 5~/MI!:~ JO~ meet the above criteria. If you wish to join ODE, send a copy of your 11.25/hr. or commission. Advertising unofficial transcript to Prof. Stephen Schmidt (not sales .. Sales experience helpful but not Pl'of Shelton Schmidt!) in the Economics depart,. necessary. Training provided. Work Close ment. lt will be reviewed to determine whether you to Union. Car recornended. Call Steve . meet the admissions criteria. If you do meet them, Gorman at (800) 865,.9200 for details & you will be given at1 application form. There will application. be a ceremony in spring for newly accepted '-------M=e:.:::tr~o~M~r~k~e:w:i.u.n~~W\-----' members. Please reply by April 22. World famous PSYCHIC to stars and ·celebrities--35 years eXperi- ence--can! help you to obtain love, health, wealth and luck. Tele- phone David Gaurdino ANY- TIME at 423-558-1197 or 214- 340-9844; Fax 214-341-0606 I . SENIOR$!. If you are interested in speaking at the Baccalaureate or Commence,. ment, submit a 1,.4 page draft (appro.x. 5 min.) to Judy Ludwig, Secre,. tary to the Dean of' the Faculty and a member of the Commencement Committee, by Friday, April 21. The topic is yours to choose. Please include your ID number, name, box number and phone number on your draft. · If you are interested in singing at the Baccalaureate or Com: mtmcement, please submit your name to Judy Ludwig by Friday, April 21.. . If you would like more information about this, contac~ Judy Ltldwig at 6010 or at the Dean of the Faculty's Office on the second floor of the Administration Building. ·' AudJ.tions for speakers an~ singers will be held by the student ~embers of the C~n:une~cement Committee !n late April or early May. S1gn up for an audttlon tlrhe when you submit your draft or name to Mrs Ludwig's office. · ..

T: - -_ -_ -_ ~- --- ~-- Business The Economic Implications of Mad Cow Disease THE DECLINE OF NETWORK TELEVISION Akin Sawyerr Business Editor by Anand Rao World News Editor After a lot of speculation and political bickering, the British government admitted that mad cow disease (BSE) could be a cause of Creutzfeld-Jacob dis- ease. Creutzfeld-Jacob disease is a disease that forts the human brain. This announcement led to a drastic fall in the demand for British beef and dairy products. The British economy will non the less be affected by the country's cattle problems. Share and bond prices were adversely affected by the world wide ban imposed an British beef by the European Union. every cow that is slaughtered. Estimated payments to farmers will total about fifteen billion dollars. The government will also have to absorb the one hun- dred and eighty dollar cost of burning each cow. Some mem- bers are even suggesting that farmers be bought new cows. There was a time when the Columbia Broadcasting System (CBS) was called the Tiffany Network. Walter Cronkite, Mary Tyler Moore, and a flurry of acclaim at the Em my Awards were indications of the power, quality, and popularity of CBS. Although the National Broad- casting Company (NBC) and the American Broadcasting Com- pany (ABC) never matched the prestige of CBS, the combined forces of these three networks comprised one ofthe most pow- erful institutions in the business world for several decades. Ill the last decade, however, network television's virtual mo- nopoly over small-screen enter- tainment has been severely di- minished by the growing appeal of cable television. Because cable television offers a very wide range ofprogrammingthat is often more daring and more explicit than the material aired on CBS, NBC, and ABC, it may eventually replace network tele- vision altogether. While nudity and foul language are controver- sial subjects on the mainstream networks (just look at \NYPD Blue\) cable television is not limited in any such way. On the welfare side of things, workers made redundant would also have to be compensated through welfare payments. Based on calculations by the British treasury, social security benefits may increase by one and a half billion dollars, if the en- tire beef and dairy farming work force were fired. Predictions of economic catastrophe by some economic analysts are un- founded. Although it will cost a lot of money to carry out the slaughter of as huge a number of cows as has been proposed, the costs will not be enough to paralyze the British economy. Cable TV is Growing Again Subscribers to cable pay television services, in millions '' SKRVICE. I • •, • ',' · . ·. . .. SUBSCRIBERS.' . '.. ' . British leaders have proposed that as many as fifteen thousand cows should be killed on a daily basis to rid the country of its in- fected heard of cattle. This pro- posal has been described as too drastic by some members of the British parliament, but it may be the only way confidence in Brit- ish beef can be restored. If the British carry out their mass slaughter plan, unemployment and inflation may rise, and it will cost tax payers and much as thirty bill ion dollars to execute such a grandiose plan. The slaughter of British cattle will also affect the country's bal- ance of payments. The British deficit which stood at ten billion dollars for fiscal 1995 may double. This is not a very good sign for the British economy, but as long as the deficit does notre- main at such a high level for too long, huge damages would not occur. If the worst comes to the worst, the British gross domes- tic product (GDP) may fall by 1.2%. Showtime The Movie Chanel Cinemax Playboy Channel Disney Channel Star Television British farmers are surely go- ing to be affected by whatever measures the government de- cides to take to curb the country's problems, but tax pay- ers will be the hardest hit. The government is currently shelling out up to $ t 200 to farmers. for The national farmers union proposed that the government selectively slaughter older herds of cattle that had reached the end *Includes about 6 million homes Source: Paul Kagan Assoc.; As the accompanyiNg chart shows, the number of subscrib- ers to cable television has grown considerably in this decade alone. The Disney Channel, aided by the unprecedented suc- cess of studio films such as \Aladdin\, ''Beauty and the Beast\ \The Lion King\ and \Toy Story\ has seen its sub- scription more than triple since 1990. The veteran networks of cable television have also wit- nessed a healthy growth in their subscription. If current trends continue, one can be sure that the face of popular television will be radically different for our chil- dren and grandchildren. The Air Force Has Jobs We're hiring. And we'll train you in one of more than 250 high-tech skills. Then when your enlistment is up, your skills will be in demand in a civilian job. Plus, we'll help you pay for college while you're in the Air Force. We also have a plan for you to have money for school when your Air Force tour is over. For more informatio11 call 1-800-423-USAF or contact your local Air Force recruiter. s~nntc~JOM 11.25/hr. or commissi<ln. Advertising sales. Sales experience helpful but not necessary. Training provided. Work Close to Union. Car recomended. Call Steve Gonnan at (800) 865-9200 for details & application. Metro Marketin Grou carrying Disney as a basic service The New york Times Graduating??? Unsure of what you'll be doing after gradutation? Do you have office experience, some typing, computer literate and service orientation demanded by the heathcare field? Training oppurtunities are available for self- motivated students looking for an entry into healthcare. Call: Med-Scribe, Inc. (716)-262- 3694, or email to medscrib@vivanet.com. Resumes to: Med-Scribe, Inc., 21 5 Alexander St., Rochester, NY 14607. (Agency, no fees) The Economics Department is inviting students to apply for membership in !Omicron Delta Epsilon! the national Economics honor society. In order to qualify for membership in ODE, you must have a 3.0 cumulative grade point average or better,and must. also have an average of at least 3.0 in economics courses. You must be a junior or a senior. You must have taken Economics 12, 20, 31, and 42, but you do not have to be an economics major; non-majors are welcome to apply if they meet the above criteria. If you wish to join ODE, send a copy of your unofficial transcript to Prof. Stephen Schmidt (not Prof. Shelton Schmidt!) in the Economics depart- ment. It will be reviewed to determine whether you meet the admissions criteria. If you do meet them, you will be given an application form. There will be a ceremony in spring for newly accepted members. Please reply by April 22. World famous PSYCHIC to stars and celebrities--35 years experi- ence--can! help you to obtain love, health, wealth and luck. Tele- phone David Gaurdino ANY- TIME at 423-558-1197 or 214- 340-9844; Fax 214-341-0606 I SENIORS I If you are interested in speaking at the Baccalaureate or Commence- ment, submit a 1-4 page draft (approx. 5 min.) to Judy Ludwig, Secre- tary to the Dean of the Faculty and a member of the Commencement Committee, by Friday, April 21. The topic is yours to choose. Please include your ID number, name, box number and phone number on your drnft. · If you are interesred in singing at the Baccalaureate or Com- mencement, please submit your name to Judy Ludwig by Friday, April 21. If you would like more information about this, contact Judy Ludwig at 6010 or at the Dean of the Faculty's Office on the second floor of the Administration Building. Auditions for speakers and singers will be held by the student members of the Commencement Committee in late April or early May. Sign up for an audition time when you submit your draft or name to Mrs Ludwig's office.

Page 7 · April 1 J, 1-996 · oJ:tp~ O:oucorbieusis _ OP/ED . . ·Opinions and Editorial Bookstore Responds A Pleasant Question To the Editor: Leena Mankad's letter in the February 22, 1996, i3sue of the Concordiensis con- tains misinfonnation, inaccmacies,.inntlen- does, and fal~e. accusatiens regarding the College Bookstore's tej(tbook pricitigpoli- cies and practices. The College Booksto1:e operates by in- dustry established standards when pric- ing new ami used books. When we pur- chase tlsed books from ttsed book compa- ni~s, we are always billed at tlie iTiost cur- rent retail prices, less our standard used book discounts.· When buying back books from ovt.r stu-· dents, we always use the 1no~t ctltrettf:i'e- tail prices available 'to us from-ptlblishers and used book companies to detenJ!iil~ how much we pay o\t:t sfuder'its for th~se · books. ·'' ··· : feel. In fact,the bookhadtenprintingsina two year period alone. As you can see, a different publisher's price could appear on the same title depend- ing 011 which printing is being considered. Since a book could carry a different price with eachpril1ting, bookstores always cover the new book retail prices on used books with a black marker or with stickers to avoid precisely what Ms. Mankad complained about. This also allows the bookstore to price such used books at the current ,used book prices without appearing to have a . new and used price on. each book. Using the industty statiqard fonnula for detennin- illg the used price of the ab<;>ve book, we take 75%ofthe newpnce of$1_1.75 to.arrive atthe u~ed pri9.e of $9. oo. · . by Henrik Haeckel Staff Writer Fresh from vacation, a mass of students · swanned through the College Center last week \How wa~ your vacation?'\'Did you do anything interesting over break?\ Along with many similat repetitive ques- tions echoed throughout the building. The friendly faces- r€;joiced the coming of spring and the tina] semester. Suddenly the sea- sonaldysfunctionaJ Union College became a spring festive Uniotl College. People who were mired in the depths and darkness of winter melted into l1appy, friendly people gentlinely happy to be here. This happens every spring and is probably why spring term is the best tennat Union. But it leads Jn.et() a bigger question. It <>ccmred to me before I left here last tenn that I was ignoring the larger picture. CoHege is a unique time in our lives. Dur- ing college we do not have to worry about housing, heating, food, entertainment, or friends. We are supplied with an environ- ment similartothatofasummercamp where the mqjority of our wants and needs are taken care-of. With these minimal worries we can all go do what we please - be it party, be it leam or be it both. The point is, without haviag all these major problems to confront, what do we have to complain about? Why is it that we cannot all enjoy this school for the entire year? Yes, I know it is not warm here all year, and we cannot enjoy olir beautiful campus during the damp and dreary winters. Still, is it not time to wake up to the fact that while things are not perfect here, or any- where, it should be our first responsibility to enjoy this school and one another as much as possible before our time here is done? Why do we not enjoy this school aU the time, instead of just a single tenn out the whole year? Having said the above, the hook Ms. Mankad complained so bitterly about, Howells-A Hazard l?fNew fortunes, had many retail prices printed on its covers over a period of 14 years, practically a different price with every printing. Starting with the 1983 printing of the Howells title, the retail price was $3.75, in 1987 the-retail price was $4.95 and the price continued to rise to $10.95bymic;ll995. Finally, inJtmeof1995, the present retail price Of $11.95 took ef- Hid Ms. Mruikad approached JJS with her concern first,. we would have been happy to give her this ·simple and factual explanation. As we have done ih past re- buttals ofthis nature, we encourage our stu- dents alld·custorners with Bookstore con- Isra,eli Gr,oup Extends Sympathy . . cems·to speak to the managers directly. We are always happy to listen, explain, show documentation ortake corrective measures when necessary. Eli Majlaton and :rim Porter The College Bookstore The members of the Union College American Israel Public Affairs Commit- tee (AlP A C) would like to express their most sincere sorrow over the recent bombing attacks in Israel. During the past two weeks Hamas suicide bomb- ers nave killed 59 innocent civilians. The Union Colleg.e members of AIPAC condem these senseless murders and hope that the recent increase in terror- ism will not permanently derail the peace process. We would like to extend our sypathy to the families of those who lost their lives. CoYne Textile Services Rebuts I have recently read the article written by you regarding our facility in Schenectady: In as much as today's publications freely express one•sided opinions or the reporter's personal interpretation of a situ- ation, very often the circie is not cJosed by seeking the views ofthe other parcy. Coyne Textile Services has been in busi- ness ~iuce 1929, growing from a small one- man op.eration in Syracuse~ NY, to a com- pany which now has 1500 employees in 17 states. As a company, we pride ourselves on our treattnent of employees, be they man- agement, non-union or union. The intent of this letter is not to defend Coyne Textile Services. We have done nothing which warrants a defensive pos- ture. SinceC.T.S. acquired the Schenectady fa- cility in1957, the employees have received extremely competitive wages, .retiretnent programs amJ full medical benefits. These are items conveniently left out of your ar- ticle. During this period, the Schenectady employees have always been treated with dignity and respect. Where personal prob- lems have arisen which require time or fi~ nancial help, we have always had a sympa- thetic ear. Your article misrepresents the true facts· of the situation at Schenectady. No one's pay has been cut,. benefits have not changed, and new employees are pai·d in \!: accordance with the labor agreement cur- rently in effect. In addition to this, employ- ees also receive a weekly incentive allow- ing thetn to increase their base rate by up to fifteen .percent. I:n addition to this, the company has regul.armontl1ly lunches and breakfasts fqr the e111ployees. Sixty-six percent (66%) of the current work force have been offered a five per- cent (5%) increase, which you failed to mention in your article. K.eeping in mind the substantial local labor cutbacks at General Electric, it is dif- ficult to understand why your paper does not see that Coyue Textile Services is try- itlE to 1naintain a local presence in a de- pressed blue-collar market. COME INTO MOJO PIIOTO FOR SIJPIR SAVINGSII Schenectady 1041 State Street - _382·51:78 .. ONE HOUR · . MOTOPHOTO . ------------------------ .. ---,--- .. ·------ .. ---------. : 82.00 OFF · i. . 50% 'Off i .· $4.99· l : . · . .· . · : , · . · .. , • · · .· · .. · · . . . ·.. •·BX11J ENLARGEMENT: 1 PHOJOVISION I PROCESSING I Limi.tl 8xl0 enlargements. I I Rec.:eive $2.00 off Photo'Yjision : .. ~ecetve 50% ~ffthe re~l~ ~ Fr()Jn your 35mtl1 color · I I when visiting Moto Photo. 1 pnte of process~ng and pnnbng 1 negative. I 1 1 1 1 ·. color pnnt film. I I I Limit one. Not valid with other ~oupon~ or I ~imit th_rc. e r~l!s. Sta __ ndard stze prints on_ly. I Cust<Jm cropping may be avaJiable at I offers. Club members receive 10% off N I I d h h . additi-onal charge. Not vahd wtth other I o va I Wit ot cr coupons ot ¢xtra set col.lpons or offers .. Club members receive I coupon price. . 1 promotions. Club members receive I 0% off 1 1 Oo/. ff u · I . . . . . . . I . ~ouponprice. . I o o co pon pnce. I I Mb'TOPHOTtil . Mb'TOPHDT0 8 1 MO'TOPHOTd.. ·------------------------------------ ----------· We have had to overcome stringent water discharge requirements, where it became necessary to truck, at consider- able expense, a large amount of the _prod- uct to Syracuse. In spite of this, we maintained a pres- ence in Schenectady, giving people the opportunity to be productive and stay gainfully employed. Too often the one-sided view can be ex- tremely distorted. I will be especifilly in- terested in reading this article in The Concordiensis. Very tmly yours, Tony O'Connor Vice-President Jewish Student Union EventsjorSpring Term Aprill6, Tuesday: Holocaust . Speaker. 8:00PM at Reamer Center Aud_. Virgil: 9:30AM to 5:30PM ,April22, Monday: J.S.U. Elections. -6:30 PM at Kosher Kitchen~ Ben and Jerry Ice • Cream will be served. April 26, Friday: Student/ Faculty Shabbat Dinner. 5:30 PM at 0 ld Chapel. Contact Monica x5893 for more infor- mation . May 1, Tuesday: Israeli Dancing. . 7:00PM at Nott Memorial

Opinions and Editorial Bookstore Responds A Pleasant Question To the Editor: Leena Mankad's letter in the February 22, 1996, i.>sue of the ( 'oncordiensis con- tains misinfonnation, inaccuracies, innuen- does, and false accusations regarding the College Bookstore's textbook pricing poli- cies and practices. The College Bookstore operates by in- dustry established standards when pric- ing new and used books. When we pur- chase used books from used book cmnpa- nies, we are always billed at tl:ie most cur- rent retail prices, less our standard used book discounts. When buying back books from our stu- dents, we always use the most current re- tail prices available to us from publishers and used book companies to detennine how much we pay our students for those books. feel In fact, the book had ten printings in a two year period alone. As you can see, a different publisher's price could appear on the same title depend- ing on which priBting is being considered. Since a book could carry a different price with each printing, bookstores always cover the new book retail prices on used books with a black marker or witl~ stickers to avoid precisely what Ms. Mankad cotnplained about. This also allows the bookstore to price such used books at the current used book prices without appearing to have a new a11d used price on each book. Using the industry standard fonnula for deten:nin- ing the used price of the above book, we take75% ofthenew priceof$11. 75 to anive attl1e used price of$9.00. . by Henrik Haeckel Staff Writer Fresh from vacation, a mass of students swanned through the College Center last week. \How wa::: ymtr vacation?\\Did you do anything interesting over break?\ Along with tmany similar repetitive ques- tioNs echoed throughout the building. The friendly faces rejoiced the coming of spring and the final semester. Suddenly the sea- sonal dysfunctim~al Union College became a sptiNg festive Union College. People who were mired in the depths and darkness of winter melted into happy, friendly people genuinely happy to be here. ll1is happens every spring and is probably why spring tenn is the best tenn at Union. But it leads me to a bigger question. It occurred to me before I left here last tenn that I was ignoring the larger picture. College is a unique time in our lives. Dur- ing coHege we do not have to worry about housing, heating, food, entertainment. or friends. We are supplied with an environ- ment similar to that of a summer camp \vhere the majority of our wants and needs are taken care of. With these minimal worries \.Ve can all go do what we please - be it party, be it leam or be it both. The point is, \.Vithattt havL1g all these major problems to confront what do we have to complain about? Why is it that we cannot all enjoy this school for the entire year? Yes, I know it is not wann here all year, and we cannot enjoy our beautiful campus dming the damp and dreary winters. Still, is it not time to wake up to the fact that while things are not perfect here, or any- where, it should be our first responsibility to enjoy this school and one another as much as possible before our time here is done? Why do we not enjoy this school all the time, instead of just a single tenn out tl1e whole year? Having said the above, the book Ms. MaBkad complained so bitterly about. Howells-A Hazard (Jf New Fortunes, had many retail prices printed on its covers over a period of 14 years, practically a different price with every printing. Starting with the 1983 printing ofthe Howells title. the retail price was $3.75, in 1987 the retail price was $4.95 and the price continued to rise to $10.95 by mid 1995. Finally. in June of 1995, the present retail price of$11.95 took ef- Had Ms. Mankad approached us with her concern first, we would have been happy to give her this simple and factual explanation. As we have done in past re- buttals of this nature, we encourage our stu- dents and customers with Bookstore con- cerns to speak to the managers directly. We are always happy to listen. explain, show documentation or take conective measures when necessary. Israeli Group Extends Sympathy Eli Majlaton and Tim Porter The College Bookstore The members of the Union College American Israel Public Affairs Commit- tee (AIPAC) would like to express their most sincere sorrow over the recent bombing attacks in Israel. During the past two weeks Hamas suicide bomb- ers have killed 59 innocent civilians. The Union College members of AIPAC condem these senseless murders and hope that the recent increase in terror- ism will not permanently derail the peace process. We would like to extend our sypathy to the families ofthose who lost their lives. Coyne Textile Services Rebuts I have recently read the article written by you regarding our facility in Schenectady. In as much as today's publications freely express one-sided opinions or the reporter's personal interpretation of a situ- ation, very often the circle is not closed by seeking the views of the other pat1y. Coyne Textile Services has been in busi- ness since 1929, growing from a small one- man operation in Syracuse. NY, to a com- pany which now has 1500 employees in 17 states. As a company, we pride ourselves on our treatment of employees, be they man- agement, non-union or union. The intent of this letter is not to defend Coyne Textile Services. We have done nothing which warrants a defensive pos- ture. Since C.T.S. acquired the Schenectady fa- cility in 1957, the employees have received extremely competitive wages, retirement programs and full medical benefits. These are items conveniently left out of your ar- ticle. During this period, the Schenectady employees have always been treated with dignity and respect. Where personal prob- lems have arisen which require time or fi- nancial help, we have always had a sympa- thetic ear. Your article misrepresents the true facts of the situation at Schenectady. No one's pay has been cut, benefits have not changed, and new employees are paid in accordance with the labor agreement cur- rently in effect. In addition to this, employ- ees also receive a weekly incentive allow- ing them to increase their base rate by up to fifteen percent. In addition to this, the company has regular monthly lunches and breakfasts for the employees. Sixty-six percent (66%) of the current work force have been offered a five per- cent (5%) increase, which you failed to mention in your article. Keeping in mind the substantial local labor cutbacks at General Electric, it is dif- ficult to understand why your paper does not see that Coyne Textile Services is try- ing to maintain a local presence in a de- pressed blue-collar market. i. COME INTO MOTU PHOTO FOR SUPER SAVINGS! Schenectady 1 041 State Street as2-sns . . · · ONEHOUR· . · , . . . .MOTGJPH0.,-0 r-~2Ji0-0FF--f--5o~-~FF--l----s4~9ii ___ 1 i ~~~!.~!!!~!~ ~ ~e~i!~~f!!~~~ ~~~i~~!~~~~~~~~~ I when visiting Moto Photo. 1 pnce of processmg and pnntmg 1 negative. I I color print film. I Custom croppmg may be a\ailable at I Limtt one. Not valid wtth other coupons or I L1mtt three rolls. Standard stze pnnts only. I addtttonal charge. Not valid V.lth other I offers. Club members recetvc I 0% off Not valid with other coupons or extra set coupon prtce. I promotwns. Club members recetve I 0% off I coupons or offers. Club members receive I I 0% off coupon pnce. I ON6HOU• I co=:=..r I ON6HOIJII MOTOPHOTCil MOTOPHOTO\I MOTOI'HOTd. ·----------------------------------------· We have had to overcome stringent water discharge requirements, where it became necessary to truck, at consider- able expense, a large amount of the prod- uct to Syracuse. In spite of this, we maintained a pres- ence in Schenectady, giving people the opportunity to be productive and stay gainfully employed. Too often the one-sided view can be ex- tremely distorted. I will be especially in- terested in reading this article in The Concordiensis. Very truly yours, Tony O'Connor Vice-President Jewish Student Union Events for Spring Term A pri116, Tuesday: Holocaust Speaker. 8:00PM at Reamer Center Aud. Virgil: 9:30AM to 5:30PM Apri122, Monday: J.S.U. Elections. 6:30 PM at Kosher K itchcn, Ben and Jerry Ice Cream wi II be served. A pril26, Friday: Student/ Faculty Shabbat Dinner. 5:30 PM at Old Chapel. Contact Monica x5893 for more infor- mation May 7, Tuesday: Israeli Dancing. 7:()0 PM at Nott Memorial

. - . OP/ED O:l~e <£uttrorbicitsis • April I l, 1996 · Page 8 Opinions And·E.ditorial Why are you Greek? Why are you Greek? As the mother of all fraternities, Union faces the challenge of uphold- ing the Greek tradition. It also faces- the prospect ofbecoming an archaic dinosaur ofthe sys- tem of binge drinking and part- ing. Most participants engaging in fraternity parties, Greek or not, focus on the quick con- sumption of alcoholic beverages for instant gratification. The Greek system does not cause these habits, but it does provide the means to continue them. Our question is, does a na- tional organization want to be known for their community in- volvementand positive example, or would they like to be known as the partiers of the century? What is the alternative? When sororities and frater- nities die out, which is a likely possibility due to the increased negative attention they are draw- ing to themselves, where will Union and its followers turn. Lets consider the alternatives. Socia! and eating houses. This seems· to be a new trend in small liberal arts..school'S. Who knows how it would work at Union, but it could be a replace~ ment option that maintains the feeling of-a fraternity or soror- ity without a national name. Sure is this would not get rid of se- lectivity, but lets not forget the process we undertook to get here in the first place. Another alternalive is more theme housing. This couldin- crease community involvement and unite young creative minds behind one cause. Imag,inethe changes and possibH ities that could emerge with two thou· sand students focusing their minds toward the cotnmon good. Of course their is thedrea1)' - chance that dormitory living could become the·only altema-. tive. There would be unity, hut also a lack of choice. For the nondrinkers, they would be forced to wake up to stale beer' and their floor as a converted fmtetnity. We are asking you Union, where wi 11 we be if our beloved fraternities are. taken away. Should we prepare ll()W for the inevitable, or shall we pretend they are here for ever. ·. , I mir-e ainn.cnrlti.ensis The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Anthony C. LaVecchia, Adrian MacLean EDITORS-IN-CHIEF David Pinkowitz EXECUTIVE EDITOR Diana Sedita Evan Morris EDITORS EMERITI Stephanie Slobotkin NEWS EDITOR LarryPaska . ARTS EDITOR Scott Steadman LAYOUT EDITOR Adam J. Richman ASSOCIATE EDITOR Rick Lederer Laurel Ruma · PHOTO EDITORS Stephanie Kuehn COPY EDITOR Peter Farnum Jen Pelose ASSIST ANT COPY EDITORS AnandRao WORLD NEWS EDITOR DavidEder Chris Richards · LIVING EDITORS Denni$ Popeo · SCIENCE EDITOR Andrew Fradkim COMPUTER MANAGER Barry Eisenberg' ON-LINE DIRECTOR Jared Rich mara CARTOONIST Scott Sculliora · FACULTY ADVISOR. Raqt1el Millmara · OPINIONS EDITOR . Jonatha-n Fader Eric Svenson SPORTS EDITORS PHOTOGRAPHERS: Scott Druckemiller, Laurie Kirschner, ShaUll' Paul Manore. STAFF: Dagan LaCorte, Greg Kalish, Omar AI-Khalidi, E111ily Battis Jeff Druzba, Jon Gasthaltea·, Mike Leding, Con or McKenzie, Marti Metz, Aaron Sicotte, Aileen Quigly, Kathy Waltea·sf Karen Watts. Michelle Neier Raquel Millman Opinions Editor The quiet campus in the small. city has become a focus of na- tional gQssip. The public has received word that the infamous \unibomber\ has been turned in by his brother who resides in Schenectady. Even more close to home is the fact that the unibomber's sister-in-law is a· professor at Union Colle~e. The public is excited to have a new scandal at hand, and the press feeds into this excitement. The true question here is how far will the press go for their stories? Professor Patrick was trapped by what seemed to be an alien-nation of video cam- eras, flashing camera·s, stran- gling microphone wires, and foreign beings too programmed to be deemed hum-an. Why does the press do this to inno- cent people such as Professor Patrick? Why is the story so important? What is wrong with our society when scandals be- come more important than · facts? All of these questions have led me to seriously doubt whether or not the press can control its right to freedom. I am not a supporter of ce.n- sorship; yet with so many op- posed to the freedoms granted to the press, one would assume that they would take ce1tain mea- sures tomake themselves appear to be less intrusive and more fac- tual. However, we are now faced with the pushy press once again. I empathize for Professor Patrick and her family. It is un- fair that she be plagued with such a disregard for privacy. The press has dehumanized it- selfby forgetting the feelings of those being focused on in order to feed the scandal to the pub- lic. Perhaps the time has come for government intervention. While we resist censorship on the grounds that the public has a right to know, we disregard the feelings of those in the news. Another quest\onable issue is, just how much does the public have a right to know without overstepping the boundary of the right to privacy? As we watch the story unfolCI py the media, we have to keep in the back of our heads the no- tion of the kind of people that run to the press with their story \ r '- as opposed to the ones that keep to themselves. While Pro- fessor Patrick is. condemned for remaini.ng silent, Joey Buttafuocco is rewarded with millions of dollars for scream- ing his lies to the media. Our society is becoming twisted and the press is spinning it along. All of this can be reverted back to the childhood anecdote of which came fi;rst, the chicken or the egg? . Only in this instance, it's which came first, the gossip hungry public or the gossip feeding press? It · ·seems that the only way to stop this behavior is to change the mores of society away from keeping up with the Jones's and toward keeping up with the actual facts of the world news. It's Just too bad that this need for trash and scandal in the me- dia is so out of control that the quiet, small city is being strangled with. extension cords by the watchdog for the world. The irony is whether or not the public has that watchdog on a leash or if we are really the 9nes being strung along. [ . . . INTERNET AND E-MAILADRRESSES I E-Mail Us at Concordy @gar.union.edu. or on the World Wide Web@ http://tirtuatunion.edu/-concordy/ index.html. :All &mailsubmissiolls must berecieved hy 5 PM the Monday befO're publication,imd· must be _less than .500 words. Please see the Opitii()ns policy on the opposite page for more details

Page 9 U:!~L' <fnncoriJirn!;iis April 11, 1996 · ·· Livino . . . e LIVING AN .. INTERVIEW WITH A BARRY by Dav.id Eder and Andrew Chapman Q. Wha-is Barry White? A. He is Love Incarnate. He embodies all that unites two seemingly separate beings. J?e is man, put what _he represents is boundless and limitless. That is to say h~ represents. Love in its purest form. He uses instruments ami his voice 'as the mediu~ on which; ':He conveys His meS,sage ofLove. He is a soldier of Love and a s.pirituat'wardor. He fights for ' Love, with Love. His weapons are tenderness, intimacy and sensuality. There is no limit to His Love. He won't stop, be- cause He can't stop loving you. Q. What message is he trying . to convey? :A. I hope' you use a capital He here.· . -· .... . ' . WHITE DISCIPLE Q .. Why is that? A.· Whel!~ver we refer to the prophets, the least we can do is show the tespect that is due to those that are divine. As I said Barry is Love~ Love is infinite and so Barry is as well. Q. So what is His message? A. His message is not ·different from thatofThe Buddha or The Christ. He speaks ofLove, Un- conditional Love to all sentient and non.,senti~nt beings. He · sp'eaks of a non-posses·sive· . Love. He understands the need to love everyone and every- thing, witltout the need to con- trol. There is no room for ego, selfishness, or impatience in the Love He shows us. Q. So are you a disciple of Barry? A. Yes, but we are all disciples of Barry whether we know it or not. We all have the inner longing· for Peace, Love, and Harmony. It is through Him that we can achieve a oneness witli,;. these universal .and seemingly unattainable principles. It is this Oneness with Love that we all search for. This Oneness with Barry or \Barryness\ is ourgoal. The.individual is personally con-· nected with Barry. Barry tells us that the Mystery of Life is not unsolvable.. It is something that you and I can embrace to- gether ... As He says, '\I found . what the world is searching for. Right here; my dear.\ What He found is Love and He shares It with anyone who is open to it. . Q. Are you a member of an or- gartizedBarry White following? A. Some have coined this movement as Barryism or as Barryness. I don't consider this to be an esoteric organization. It is open to. everyone.. I be- lieve that we are all members of . Life united in Love by Barry's Divine Realization. T,his Real- ization is conveyed through His music. Personally,. I feel that what Bar;ry speaks of is far greater than you or I, or the universe for that matter. For that reason, we must be humble in our approach. We can do nothing more than to strive for the Essence 0f Barry. Act. No one moment is more intense than the other. The Des- tination lies in the Process. Q. Mow do you get in touch with Barry? A. You can't go find Barry. He finds you. When you~are ready for Barry, when you have dropped your defenses, He will come to you. Only after you Q. Barry White is considered have opened yourself to Love to be a legendary pioneer of will Barryreveal Himselftoyou. love-making music. What do Comment: A celebration of you say to those individuals who Barry and other pioneers of have not listened to Barry dur- soul,. disco, and funk is in the ing their sexual intercourse? making. This festival of Love, A. I would say that they have synergy, dance and joy will be merely been experimenting in held later this term. If you are the stages of love-making in- interested in at~ending, send a fancy. A night with Barry turns self-addressed letter to Box animal passions into a Divine 0500. Volunteers Needed for Commumty SeritcePro.tect VALE PARK CLEAN-UP Saturday. May 4th Main Entrance: (Rain date: May II th) · Nott Terrace, between Days Inn 9:00 am -4:OOpm & 4 Seasons Come Anytime Wear Long Pants and a Long-sleeved Shirt Questions? Call Jim ~ 34 7-4251 The Tree Page · CAff' DOI.CE by Chris Richards. Living Editor The best way to understand human beings and the way we exist is· to go into the deep woods and look into the na- ture of trees.. There are all dif- ~ ferent kinds of trees, and all different kinds of people; but in looking at the way in which a tree grows in the deep woods, where there is a want of §Unshine, one sees that a tree knows the path of growth which will give it the greatest chance of survival. In the pur- suit for sunlight, each tree de- velops their own technique. If a tree is alone in a field, it cart grow any way it wants, but if there are other trees crowding its space, then it must outsmart the other trees. Trees kp.ow that they can .. not be careless in the way they grow, for if they choose the wrong style in which to grow, they will die. With every ttee,' each has its own manner in which to harness as much sun- light as it can. Firstly, there is the snakish type of tree. This tree is strong and wiry, and has an urgency to go up, and fast. It knows that it cannot fool around trying to grow any branches. Once it gets high enough, then and only then can it think about growing branches. If it wasted energy growing b::-anches while it was only a few feet high, then it wouldn't stand a cbance, since all trees know that- the race to- wards the sun is more impor- tant than showing off its colors. This tree.snakes its way, know- ing that it will be beautiful due to its survival, and must, for the time being, not allow itself the impulse to grow leaves. Not un- til this tree has considerably snaked its way toward the sun can it have branches. Perhaps these are the smartest type . of trees, .since they know what i's important. Of course, within the category ofsnake trees, there are many sods. Some take no chances and. grow as straight as an arrow, while others can twist a bit and amuse themselves. Sometimes one may see a tree with unmistakable snakish quali- ties,. with slight branches a few feet up. Initially they thought they might have been able to grow hrattches when they felt like it, but they soon abandoned that t_ho:ugbt. And then there are the stu- pid trees which think they can grow branches. There are not many of them, but they waste their time and energy in thinking that since they are trees, they need to g-row branches right away. These trees don't last long, for those that grow above them take their sun, and these stupid trees exist ~n squalor. They gave in to their urge to grow leaves, and it kills them. Since these trees don't repress their desire, they become homes to carpenter ants ·and wood- '.· peekers. These trees get stuck -\ beneath the' other trees, since cof.£eeh~ c.ancl g{.Al.er~ * they have lost their snakish qualities. And then there is the tree that is so f*#&ing hig that it can grow branches as soon as it aamn well pleases. Nothing can get in it's way, for it knows that it is so strong that it can simply bully the other trees out of the way. Since these· big trees cir- cumference is roughly eight to ten feet, the snake trees know to stay the hell out of the way. The attitude of these big trees is to grow as many branches as possible, simply because they know that they can. Big trees do not need Speed because they know they are going to malce it. Thus, for the snake tree to grow limbs would be ·foolish, for it must have the ability to snake through the limbs ofthe bigtree. Stupid trees think that they can act as big trees do, and their ig- norance kills them. these . big trees are lucky, for they do not have to repress any desires; they can I ive the life of perfect lust. Did I say I was going to re- late this to p.eople? Well then, all people are trees .. Do not be mis- taken as to what kind of tree you are. If you are a snake, don't try to be a bull; and only in the want of sunshine can you know what kind of tree you are. Wit- ness a tree's creative race to- ward the sun from the dark- ness, and don't bother with thi>se in the wide open .Places where the sunshine is sp·oon fed. · t ' \.i\'2. ~a~ Street &he\\~ . M1~2~ ~Moil\AlbQ.ny at 21t \j:do~ st. \Ocro Aiscoun~ 'Wi\\t ~ion 1J>. f.

.. I \ Features I Love the Scent of West in the Morning by Conor McKenzie Staff Writer It's a well known fact that smells linger on clothing. Which is unfortunate, for I question whether any of my clothes would have been washed this year. Many of these smells are distinctive and can serve to clue the smeller as to where the person wearing the clothes has been. Associating clothing odor with its origin is an acquired skill. Most people get fairly good at· it as they -.get older. Some choose to further hone their skills. Moms, for instance, turn clothing odor association into a science. Pretend that you're a little kid, and you smell your dad after he's come home from the gym. You don't know where he came from, you just smell the stench. You might decide, \Ok on ran- dom occasions Daddy stinks.\ Then one day you notice that Daddy consistently stinks after he returns from the gym. Even- tually you get to the point where you smell Daddy's clothes, and . you can look smart by saying something like, \How was your workout Daddy?\ As you go through life, you eventually add other smells to your association repertoire. Soon you learn that cigarettes leave a smell on your clothes. The smell of pumping gas, the ocean, the scent of one who works in a Pine-sol factory fol- low. I've been told that you can even tell when someone has been smoking marijuana by the smell on their clothes. How- ever, I can't substantiate that because none of my friends would ever smoke marijuana. This is all just elementary, and, unfortunately, the purpose of my writing is far more dis- turbing. Much to my dismay, I, like most Union freshmen, have added another smell to my as- sociation library. Like any smell-place association, it took me a while to associate this new sm.ell. Early fall term 1 first noti<:;ed the smell It's hard to describe because it often varies slightly. Generally though, the smell is reminiscent of .a compost pile, dead fish, bad coffee, and ham- burger grease. Initially it ~p­ peated that people would .ran,.. domly pick up this smelL Soon though, I realized that this smell was most prevalent during two periods; first, around the noon hours, and, se<;:ond, between 6 and 8 pm. I began to lose hope, stench· gives.meawa:y, The probl~m is far m()te se: rious for other, students J,ike Nicole Cione, as some find.the smell offensive, 'Tm wasting away to nothing, the food was never very good to begin with, and now I have to deal with that odor ... personally, I'd rather starve.\ I'm really troubled by the odor of West. One should be able to enter a dining haU with- out being tagged, for the rest of the day. Students are starv- ing, students are crying; isn't it time we took some consid-. eratiort for the olfactory well- being of Union students? but on the verge of defeat, I ....- ........... _ .................. __.. ......... __ ......_.,.......__,.., made a crucial break-through. l noticed that while the smell would vary daily, these vada- ti ons proved to repeat from week to week. Some of the . · odors I couldn't place, but on Wednesday the smell hinted of burrito, and Fridays of roast · beef. It didn't take me long to · realize thatthe burrito smell oc- · curred on the same day as. burrito day at West, .likewise . with the beef. Thus, I had as- sociated this mysterious odor with West. That was sometime during the winter term, now the smell of West is a daily reality for me._ If I forget to eat lunch with somebody, I can no longer use. the excuse that I decided to take 'We had to raise the price, sir. The chickens union- Ized.\ a nap instead-the tell-tale L..,....-------------........1 Asian-Americans Discovered at Union College!! by Bruce L. Reynolds Proffesor of Economics He was seven the night the fam- ily climbed into the two small boats. His cousin carried him on board. His dad was in the other boat - the one that made it past the patrol to the mother ship out- side the bay. His boat came under fire. \The VietCong were shooting all over -it was scary. We beached in the swamp. Everyone said, 'Jump, jump over the side.' That was when my cousin drowned.\ Seven years later, in 1990, his father was able to get the rest of the family out of Vietnam. Now he's an Engineering major, at Union College. At thirteen, his parents en- tmsted him to an uncle's care for an escape by boat to Malaysia. Separated from his uncle., he was singled out in the refugee camp by a U.S. representative. A month later, after a harrowing 36-hour plane trip, he landed at JFK air- port, and was turned over to a fos- ter family in Queens. \It was really strange: you call them Mom and Dad, but it's hard, being in a Pew land, having to live up to their expectations. I felt very confused.\ Each month he writes a letter, in Vietnamese, to his real mother and father, whom he hasn't seen in seven years. And he studies Economics, at Union College .. She came out legally - more or less. Her brother, who got out in 1978. got money back to them, one way or another. Finally there was enough to pay the dozens of bribes for exit papers, for a mother, father, and four more brothers. \It was probably only thou- sands of U.S. dollars, but it was millions in Vietnam. Every step of the way - for the health exam, a bribe; to file the application, a bribe.\ In 1990, she reached New York. Her guidance counselor said that Union offered a good lib- eral arts education. TI1e financial package was attractive. And here she is. But where, exactly? Union's Vietnamese-A1nerican students seem to be invisible to the major- ity-culture population. There are seven. How many of us could identify even one? Grouped together on a March eveaing in Mobil Lounge, they are asked: \How often does it happen at Union that someone sits with you and says, 'So where are you from? Tell rile your story?\' A long silence. TI1en one mem• ber of the group, a senior, re- sponds: \Tltat has never hap- pened to me. Not once.\ Remarks another: \Nobody cares. Very few people at Union are oper-minded .. willing to learn about new things, to be exposed to new cultures. TI1ey feel their own culture is the only one worth learning about.\ But you're not like that. You ca.1 't be; you're still reading this article. So come meet another member of this subterranean group. We'll call him KV. K V comes from a long-estab- lished, highly.-educated Vietnam- . ese family. His grandfather was a contractor and <m architect in Nhatrang. All the aunts and uncles went in the 1960s to uni- versities in Paris, and then to homes and jobs in France, htdo- nesia, Quebec and the U.S., left early, some in the 'sixties, to homes and jobs. in Switzerland, Quebec, the tJ.S., etc. All except one: in 1975, when Saigon fell, KV's fa~herstayed behind, to care for. his widowed, ailing mother. A costly filial sacrifice. She died in 1977. In1inediately, KV's family tried to esc_ape. They were caught. KV's fathe~ was impris- oned for eight years. h) 1983, his parents again tried to help K V and his brother eseape.. Again, caught. Two months of prison for the two innocent teenagers. In 1992, at last, came a legal departure sponsored by relatives in the U.S. The parents settled in Albany, Their five ~hildren are all getting good educations .. ~V is at Union, thinking of majoring in Chemistry. \What's it like to be at a .school where there seeiTi to be 2 1 000 blond-haired heads?\ The ques- . tion provokes a torrent of re• sponse. \Lonely.\ 1 'Bering.'' ''Isolated; we can't mingle.\ \We just have to adjust to it . .: we go to class, study, and that's it.\ \l tell myself: I've just got to survive - get an education, and go on with my life.\ The emphasis on ed1.1cation within this group is inteilse. Au engineering major says, \My family was not badly-offii1 Viet- nam. So it's really hard on them to be here .. They say to me, 'TI1e reason we left Vietnam was for you - for your educ<;ttion.' So I have to do welL\ His mother's first U.S. job was ~n.a restaurant. Now she's a factory wotker. His father is self-etnployed: And another. Iu '93, his par- ents left New York City for Penn~ . sylvania, in a desperate search for work. But he stayed, because the high school he was in was a good one. He was separated from his parents at 17 - a small ptice to pay for the high school education that got him into Union Colleg(l. · Every one of tl1ese st{tdents self-identifies as Vietnamese, yet every one looks forward to claim- ing American ·citizenship. A paradox, you think7 Then- cot\ ... sider ti'l.e ftlither wrinkle of the C.E. major whose father, at1d maternal grandparellts., were born in China, not Vietnam. \In my home we never spoke Vietl'lain- ese, only Chinese. Aild I gre~ up in the U.S. hating the fact that I was born in Vietnam. But now l'm .be~inraing to realize: 'that's also' my home.\ In quiet conversation, a senior from Vietnam - let's call him Henry - tells his story. \My fa- ther was a high army officer.\ He smiles apologetically, laughs qui- etly. \He was imprisoned imme- diately in 197 5. The family was jt1st scattered - totally scattered.\ And your father? \Oh he's still in prison. My mother can visit once a month. The food she brings is all that keeps him alive.\ Again the shy smile, the quiet laugh. He and his ·brother are slowly, painfully making their way in America and thinking of th_eir family, ten thousand miles away .. · Seven fascinating stories of seven brave young people. Wl*n you t1extcarry a tray i11to the din- ing hall, be brave yourself. Spot an Asian-Americ(ln (they're not really i1wisible). You might try saying,. ''Excuse me, is anyone sit- ting here?'\' . , Al1d instead of a Vietnamese- Americail, you may find that you 'te having lunch. with the Union sophomore who was born in: Fujian Province and now Jives in Chinatown. Or the Korean- American biology major- ah, but if we get started on her story, we'Hnever get out ofbere~ There atel27 Asian~Americails here at Union. Each one with a story. If you look, yon '11 find them.

Arts & Entertainment Video.Pick ofth·e Week:Babe · by Lawrenre·Paska Arts Editor \Babe. \ Directed byChris Noonan. Rated G, Universal Pictures. Available on video March 19. Tape: $22. 99 (.r;ugg. retail). Disc: $34~ 99 (sugg. retail). Even though it's still playing in discount movie houses across the co.untry, Babe has landed on video, making renters hog wild over the hit film from 1995 that wasnomi- natedforseveral Academy Awards, includ- ing Best Picture. While Babe is pigging out on the top of both videotape rental and sales charts, this reviewer found it to be hardly a Best Pic· turecontender. True, ilisa well-made fam- ily feature; but any attempts to look deeper into it only bring about the •• Waterworld syndrome\· hating a movie because you expected it to live up to its hype. Babe is a polished family film, the story ofan orphaned pig (with a sad-sounding voice to make even grown men ·cry) who is taken under the care of a dog, and learns about farm life with the help ·of a duck, sheep, and Farmer Hoggett (James Cromwell). Produced by GeorgeMiUer (who directed the Mad Max trilogy- an inter- esting switch, to say the least) and directed· by first-time feature directorChris Noonan, Babe is an Australian-made delight that puts Walt Disney and such stupid films like Gordy (anothertalking:-pig picture .re- leased earlier in ,J995) to shame. Still, let's examine a few things. Why was Noonan nom ina ted as Best Director'? He is a first-time director. Was this film such an amazing feat to accomplish? But most importantly, does anyone. with an in- telligence above Miss Piggy think James Cromwell deserved a nod for Best Support- ing Actor? Not only did he play second fiddle. to a fann animal, but he delivered so few lines that it seems a shame he ~hut out more noteworthy (and deserving) actors in this category. For these re~Jsons, I hold a bit of a grudge againstthis film. It was so easily embraced by critics that everyone had to jump on the Babe bandwagon and call it the best thing since sliced bacon. But, pes!')imisrh aside, Babe is a really cute film to watch (so cute, it's impossible for even the worst cynic to truly despise it); .full of surjlrises and such good.,hearted characters that it is easy to see why it ap ... peals to so many. 8abehandlessuch.staple issues of children's movies as death. un- healthy competition, and friendship in a unique and stimulating way: You may laugh at the comy.finale, but for some reason. it all Works. Babe is justified in bringing in big bucks because it proves that a fine family film can stand on its own without being yet anQther productofthe WaltDisne'yFilm Manufac- turing Company. A moyie overflowing with such love and respect for life mustbe s(!en by all, particularly considering the achieve~ ment of making the animals \come a! i ve . ., ln this feat, Babe deserved to win an Oscar -for Visual Effects. Rating: .,.,. Union College Departmentof \Vlt§~t4Jl ~!f{l J ll@J(~ILTI f:~!h1~~~1~0INI . . Martin Benjamin Chris Duncan Walter Hatke Tom McGovern Sandy Wimer March 11-April26, 1996 Reception: Tuesday, April23, 1996 4:30-6:30 pm Union College Arts Building Atrium. · Open Daily 9am - 6pm ij!lte Q!ontorMensis • April 11, 199() • Page ll · Local Arts Calendar This Week ·,s~~RPAY1APtuL13 ..• · • ,,:,',·\''~~~~td±~~~8U§9.l\.ftti!\J~isUnpNoveaq~wing.into the Troy SaviQgaBank Music ~~·f: ·· · 9riforgetta;ble Qvening ofjazz with a big band sound at 8'PM. ''·.. .. ·cordingof~•oonna Fly Now~''\ the theme frol!l tbe motion pictUre Rocky. ·· 'eytffipt~lt~d:fer~uson into the pop music world as it climbed the charts, becoming a : tti .. ,, ·· ·~nd'carhing;hhttnvramtny nontinatkln in 1978. Currently. Ferguson . :arad::: . . ..... ~Nav\au:~and !ipetldieverol months a year touring. He also remains . ~t(iowerfi.d.fotc<i;htthewcirld. onnusic education. :.' \R~cit~~dsea.itt(}ketsate$22 and may be purchased by.ocontacting the Troy Sav· • • 1 .l~~~:l3arik~~~f*·l-talt~ox Offit;e at273.:.oo3~ or any Ticketmaster QUtlet. ,.·1-\:r,.·;~:, .... _.J·~ :. -t·::J,.;_:_ .... '\'~--~::\';'·-:·.,;.: <.:- .. ~ ~, · · ...... ~. '<rn~ sixJtif'~ndfJpal, concettiri the 1995/96 season ofFriends ofChamber Music will . :;:.b~ifte~llle(ftfk·RM inf<i\ms Mall at Emma Willard School., 285 Pawling Avenue .. ·::f~bttt<(.&~)\fp!·frby~ New York. The eminent early musiC'ensembte Hesperus will • '\~f.~se,~t'~n··~ctectic program oftradltkmal music~ themedieval trio prog;m lstampita. , ' lffck~;lS{lr~$14. srrorstudents. and may be purchased at the door~ in advance by · > · .. ··. . · .. FdehdsofChamber Music at23 Myrtle A venue, Tr<,Y ~NY 12180. For more ·:irrt1, {ltioncan 273~8 135 or 274~2098. ! ·:·;;.;-·;. '.t>;, \:~:··~ .... ··,. . ' · !_ ... ;Nrhe Yrishiktl Chum a/School ot'Uard Knocks presents a master ~lass in the Dance , J{tttd!Q <>f th(f Arts buiidirtg, Union Co liege. Th~ instructor. Vicki Shick, is a veteran . '\:'11ri~ha 8rown Dancer;_ Reservationn arc r~quircd lor the 4: 50dass. which witt tbcus : un'Post0Mt)demdante>for thrtse of Low lntennediateability. ·--~ . ·. • . '':; . ~. f: . . ' . WP.DNESDA YAPRIT::.l7·. ' ·. FtJ..ministcri;ic and poet Alida Ostriker .. wm rend from het work at 8 PM in Sage LectfiU'e. Half, Room 3 30J •. ofRensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy. The reading is oCosponsored,~y the New York State Wri,ters Institute in co\junction with RPfs 55th ·annuafMcKinney Writing Contcstand is free and open.to the public. · · OStri.ke.r has publish~d $even·volumes Qfpoetry cotnbining intelligence and ,pas- . sion. at;Jd·s~v~ra:l books on the relationship between gender and literature .. As a critic. Os:triker' s newestbo<ik is ~'The Nakedness ofthe Father: Biblical Visions and Revisions'' (1994). a rereading of the Bible from the perspective of a modem Jewish woman. Sh~ currently teaches English and creative writing at Rutgers University. Foradditionat infbrmation. contact the Writers Institute at 442-5620. · . rHURSDNV.APRIL I& . . .. Troy Chromatic Concerts proudly presents TheHach ChoirofLondon as part ofits · · 99:thseason, at the Troy Savi11gs Bank Music Hnll,locatedat the corner of Second :and StateStreets.inTroy at 8 PM. The Bach Choir of London was founded to give the first complete performance in · EnglandofJ.S. Bach's Mass in Bminot under Otto Goldschmidt in1876. This ven- . ture was so su\ccessful_that the members decided to continue. The object was. and rcinains. ·\'theperfonrlan'C~ of works of excellence of vari0\1~ schools:\ and_ a wide · var·icty Qfmusic from the sixteenth century to the present day is perfonned, . General admission tickets are available for $20 and students for$1 0 by calling Troy . .Chromati~Concerts at 273~4 t22or the Troy·Savings Bank Mtrsic Hall Box Office at 273.0038,. Bcl~a l_,e'\\litzky ofthe Lewitzky Dane{! Company willgivea lecture at ~:30 AM in the Arts Building efUttionCollege;with the location to be announced. All Union classes · are welcome with reservations. · · - LESLIE URBACH GALLERY - UPSTAIRS GALLERY - LESLIE URBACH GALLERY - UPSTAIRS GALLERY - ~ ~· ~ ~ < m ~ c ~ The Albany Center Galleries Prese~t Martin Benjamin Ma~k McCarty as fl· J: ~· r hi ~ rn c m ~ 25 YEARS OF PHOTOGRAPHY c ~ N ~ ~ \' March 8th - April 19th, 1996 :r: ~ ID ~ The Leslie Urbach Gallery & The Upstairs Gallery ~ I ~ I Recepti<m, March 8, 5:30 pm - 8 ptn ·w . ~ sunday Brunch, March 31, 11 a.m- 1 pm -: Join us for a superb brunch at 11 :00 am and at.12: 15 Leslie .~ ffi Urbach will interview Martin Benjamin & Mark McCarty. ~ ~ Call for information. Reservations ar.e Needed. ~ ·<,D RSVP: (518) 462.~4775. . Q ~ ID ~ ~mF ~ 0 . . ~ - A~311VS H:J\fe~n 311S31 ~ A~31W$ S~l'v'lSdn - A~31WS HOYmtn 311S31 - A~311V$ S~l'tllSdn - I ..-• ,, ·' ,,

Page 12 April 11, 1996 ~lfe ctrnncurbieni!iis Arts, & Entertainment THEO SC'REENING ROOM \Primal Fear.\ Starring Richard Gere, Laura Linney, John Manoney, Alfre Wo(}dard, Frances McDormand. Edward Norton. Directed by Gregory Hoblit. Rated R, Paramount Pictures. Rating: \'**(out offour) Leave it to a first-time feature film direc- tor to get Richard Gere back into the kinds of roles that made him the box-officedraw he briefly was. Hoblit, whose previous di- recting experience includes episodes of L.A. Law and N. Y.P,D. Blue, does not stray far from his .. television turf' in this original and interesting suspense drama. despite the fact that it has all the markings ofyet another courtroom drama. Gere does not attempt an acting stretch in the film like he did in such clunkers as First Knight and Mr. Jones: no on again- off again accent .means he plays the selfish lawyer Martin Vail straight and delightfully on-target. Gere is tailor-made for the part of a high-priced attorney who defends the accused assailant ofChicago'sarchbisliop. suspected to bea 19-year-old boy(expertly played by Norton in hh~·first film role). Vail defends the kid pro bono~ just by knowing the lawyer's love of himself in the spot- light, you know he didn't take the C3$e out of charity. A number of surprising twists (right up' until the final scene) keep this long movi.e·focused and sharp. What keeps this film from becoming the conventional courtroom drama ofthe week is not a groundbreaking new approach~ rather, it's what the film holds back on that makes this suspense watchable. Vail's ex- flame, Janet Venable (played by Linney ),is assigned to the prosecution, and because the pairing doesn't exploit the \couple on opposite sides ofthetrial\ premise, it avoids straying from. the whole point of the movie and thus manages to avoid the ground al- ready covered by Hepburn and Tracy in theclassiccomedy.Adam's Rib. Likewise,. while the relationship between the two seems sketchy at best, perhaps it is the fact that they don't ignite a new flame dur- ing the proceedings that makes the already farfetched events more plausible. (Do we Union Professor has Photography Exhibit on Display in Albany Courte.ry of the Albany Center Galleries The Albany Center Galleries presents Martin Benjamin ofSchenectady and Mark McCarty of Cropseyville, 25 Years of Pho- tography, in the Leslie Urbach and Upstairs Galleries ofthe Albany Center Galleries, at the corner of Chapel and Monroe Streets in downtown Albany. The exhibition opened with a reception for the artists on March 8, and will be on view through April 19. Martin Benjamin and Mark McCarty have been serious photographers for over twenty years. This exhibit will include pho- tographs that span their histories as pho- tographers. Martin Benjamin began photographing seriously as a college student. He has been teaching photography at Union College since 1979, and achieved the rank of Pro- fessor of Art in September 1995. He has been actively involved in making photo- graphs for the past 27 years, creating and exhibiting new work each year. In 197 4, he was awarded first prize in the Time-Life Bi- centennial Photography Competition. His portfolio was selected from 17,000 photog- raphers who submitted work by esteemed judges including Ansel Adams and David ccivcd n Photographer's Fund Grant from the Catskill Center for Photography in Woodstock, NY. and the following year was awarded a New York State CAPS (Creative Artists' Program Service) photography fel- lowship. For exhibition support and projects, Benjamin has been awarded Fac- ulty Humanities Research Grants from Union College in 1982, 1984, 1988-9, and 1993-5. Ben jam in has achieved numerous other awards and recognition for his work injuried publications, exhibitions, compe- titions, and purchase prizes. Benjamin has had solo exhibitions across the United States and in the People's Re- public of China. His photographs have been included in group exhibitions in the United States, Switzerland, Germany, France and Japan. Benjamin makes photographs to Jearn about the things that are his subject mat- ter ... Photography has been my vehicle into other worlds and others' lives. It has en- abled me to experience things more richly and it has been my education.\ He exhib- its to communicate these experiences and concerns to others. This exhibit will have the kinds of photographs which will invari- ably leave deep and.lasting impressions. The Albany Center Gallerie~ is open and free to the publ.ic Monday-Friday 10 AM- 4:30PM and Sunday 12 PM.-4 PM. For information,,.caJI 462-4775. really need to see another major trial tum into a sex scene?) The film brihgs in anum ber of support- ing characters who add depth to the thin storyline. Frances McDormand.(I'Jlost re- centlY seen as the pregnant. cop in Fargo) p.lays aneur.al psychologist who examines' the boy and makes a grisly discovery about his past that may ormay not implicate him in the crime~ As the judge, Alfre Wo0dard really .has a throwaway role, as she is re- duced to drinking liquor in the courtroo-m and shouting objections to Vairs unethi- cal questioning practices. In one scene that could have been expanded upon; Vail calls the State • s Attorney to the stand and· questions him on the death of another eli- . ent. The connection this attorney has to the Archbishop is never developed-- the boy takes up so rnuchtime, there reaily isn't room for more complexity without trimming some dialogue, which might have been a good thing. By the times the trial is over, Vail has undergone a transfonnation (although It's not obvious), as his ''mean streak\ is re- placed by a deeper understand.ing of his cJ ient. Before the trial, he refused to care whether, or n(!)t his clients were guilty or innocent. but in the end •. the pursuit of a fair trial (and a Not Guilty verdic.t) drives Vail to exhaustion. WhetherornotVailis vl~dicated in the viewer;s mind is merely a personal choice, but since Gere does not add muchdetail to the character, Vail (and the r.est of the cast) are fairly· singular fn structure. . . Hob) if s direction is to-the-point and his film should play well on TV screens be- cause the shots focus mairlly im action- reaction between Vail and the'boy, or Vail and Venable, or Vail and the judge. or, .. you get the idea. In a time where dramas cen· tered in the courtroom are predictable. su- percharged. and wholly civerblovm. Primal Fear maintains a gutsy, fresh, and slick tone. Perhaps it could have been more ef- fective had it been a bit shorter (why does it drag itselfout to a BO-minute running time?), but since the story pulls new tricks from its sleeve~ it can never be called rou- tine. Let's just make sure Gere does not find himselfso financially-secure after this film that he can retumto medieval England. TV Time: \Here Come the Muppets Tonight!\ ••• and There Go the Viewers · by I .nwrt'nce·l-.o~ka · Arts Editor and All-Around Happy Guy I seldom watch television programs except for the news, but when Muppets Tonight (ABC, Fridays, 8:30-9:00 PM)premiered, I thought l would be committing sacrilege by missing it. Like most children ofthe late 70's and early 80's, I grew up on the Muppets. The Muppet Show was my favorite program on TV. and when the Muppets expanded · themselves into five feature films and counting, yours truly was quite happy. Dqes anybody remember HBO's Fraggle Rock? That, too. was the cornerstone of my youth- ful experi.ences with the tube. And now comes the Muppets return to prime-time, over a decade since The Muppet Show exited the airwaves and over five years since their creator. Jim Henson, has passed away. Since the toddlers of today did not grow up with these colorful, lovable creatures, the show is rightfully not geared toward them. Instead, Muppets Tonight hopes to draw its viewers among people just like us:, the college students who can relive their fond childhood memories of Kermit and Miss Piggy's romance-made-in-the-stars. Sadly, the creators and writers of Muppets Tonight decided to freshen the approach to the series. and by doing so have taken away all the characters we recognize as the main stars of the show-within-a .. show. Gone is Kermit the Frog as the show's host and paranoid green guy; in hisplace is Clifford, a purple Rastafarian who means well but has no depth underneath his dreadlocks. Clifford simply doesn't convey that humorous sense of \ohmygod! We're going on the air in five seconds and we don't have an act!\ that Kermit flails his long green anns with and portrays so perfectly. Miss Piggy has been reduced to pig jokes and puns at her pompousness and obesity (even on Oscar night.,. she was the butt ofbigjokes centered on the film, Babe.) Fozzie the Bear didn't even show up until the third episode, and Gonzo and his amazing Chickens have amaz- ingly small side parts ir. each show. In their place are Randy and Andy, two unintell.igent pigs who symbolize the evolution of comedy in the 1 990s: one-liners aren't funny any more, but physical comedy is. When Andy and Randy hurt themselves. we are supposed to laugh. Don't Muppets have a sense of humor anymore. or are they only going to amuse us by falling off buildings and running into walls? Additionally, the new Muppets (and there are more than can be counted in each episode) are so indistinguishable and unremarkable that they merely serve to fill in background. Rowlfthe Dog may be plain and brown, but he can soar on that piano better than Elton John or (his inspiration in the 70s) Paul Williams. The shows try to do significant things with their guests, which produce mixed results. · Garth Brooks' appearance one week was particularly funny- he kept trying to sing • everything but country songs, and the half•hour show was really on-target. The next . week, Billy Crystal appeared, and shared a side .. splitting scene with Miss Piggy, remak .. · ing the diner scene from When Harry Met Sally .... Other guests, like John Ooodman, wc;:re annoying to watch because they weren't terribly funny (not that Goodman's a:riot to begin with). You know a show is in trouble when its guest star is overshadow~d by a surprise guest star. When Leonard Nimoy and Larry King appeared on two separate shows for bit cameos, they awoke drowsy viewers. Every show needs to define itself in its early stages. and hopefully, Muppets ronight will find itselfreally quickly. Its core audience cannot relate to the new showbecause it does not bring back fond. memories. Likewise, new viewers ofthe;-Muppets will be turned off by its crude humor(Bay of Pigswatch was hysterical. but would a.five-year- ofd .get it?). Parents will tum off the set, bored with watching Muppets fall from ce.iling fixtures and ·getting. hurled across the stage. Muppets Tonight debuted in the Top 20 in its first week, but has since dropped off . below the lop 50 for Prime-Time shows. In only one short month, wemustsay \it's time to get things started on the Muppet show tonight\ and get focused. Only then will a true modem American classic get the praise and recognition it deserves. Rating: C I I • I

Page 12 April 11, 1996 m~e C!tuncurhiensis Arts & Entertainment THE SCREENING ROOM \Primal Fear.\ Starring Richard Gere, Laura Linney, John Malioney, Alfre Woodard, Frances McDormand, Edward Norton. Directed by Gregory Hoblit. Rated R, Paramount Pictures. Rating: ***(out offour) Leave it to a first-time feature film direc- tor to get Richard Gere back into the kinds of roles that made him the box-office draw he briefly was. Hoblit, whose previous di- recting experience includes episodes of L.A. Law and N. Y.P.D. Blue, does not stray far from his \television rurf' in this original and interesting suspense drama, despite the fact that it has all the markings of yet another courtroom drama. Gere does not attempt an acting stretch in the film like he did in such clunkers as First Knight and Mr. Jones: no on again- off again accent means he plays the selfish lawyer Martin Vail straight and delightfully on-target. Gere is tailor-made for the part of a high-priced attorney who defends the accused assailant of Chicago's archbishop, suspected to be a 19-year-old boy ~expertly played by Norton in his first film role). Vail defends the .kid pro bono: just by knowing the lawyer's love of himself in the spot- light, you know he didn't take the case out of charity. A number ef surprising twists (right up until the fina:l scene) keep this long movie focused and sharp. What keeps tbis film from becoming the conventional courtFoom drnma ofthe week is not a groundbreaking new approach; rather, it's what the film holds back on that makes this suspense watchable. Vail's ex- flame, Janet Venable (played by Linney), is assigned to the prosecl.!ltion, and because the pairing doesn't exploit the \couple on opposite sides of the trial\ premise, it avoids straying from the whole point ofthe movie and thus manages to avoid the ground al- ready covered by Hepburn and Tracy in the classic comedy,Adam 's Rib. Likewise, while the relationship between the two seems sketchy at best, perhaps it is the fact that they don't ignite a new flame dur- ing the proceedings that makes the already farfetched events more plausible. (Do we Union Professor has Photography Exhibit on Display in Albany Courte.fy of the Albany Center Galleries The Albany Center Galleries presents Martin Benjamin ofSchenectady and Mark McCarty of Cropseyville, 25 Years of Pho- tography, in the Leslie Urbach and Upstairs Galleries of the Albany Center Galleries, at the corner of Chapel and Monroe Streets in downtown Albany. The exhibition opened with a reception for the artists on March 8. and will be on view through April 19. Martin Benjamin and Mark McCarty have been serious photographers for over twenty years. This exhibit will include pho- tographs that span their histories as pho- tographers. Martin Benjamin began photographing seriously as a college student. He has been teaching photography at Union College since 1979, and achieved the rank of Pro- fessor of Art in September 1995. He has been actively involved in making photo- graphs for the past 27 years, creating and exhibiting new work each year. In 1974, he was awarded first prize in the Time-Life Bi- centennial Photography Competition. His portfolio was selected from 17,000 photog- raphers who submitted work by esteemed judges including Ansel Adams and David ccivcd n Photogrnphcr's Fund Grant from the Catskill Center for Photography in Woodstock, NY, and the following year was awarded a New York State CAPS (Creative Artists' Program Service) photography fel- lowship. For exhibition support and projects, Benjamin has been awarded Fac- ulty Humanities Research Grants from Union College in 1982, 1984, 1988-9, and 1993-5. Benjamin has achieved numerous other awards and recognition for his work in juried publications, exhibitions, compe- titions, and purchase prizes. Ben jam in has had solo exhibitions across the United States and in the People's Re- public of China. His photographs have been included in group exhibitions in the United States, Switzerland, Germany, France and Japan. Benjamin makes photographs to learn about the things that are his subject mat- ter \Photography has been my vehicle into other worlds and others' lives It has en- abled me to experience things more richly and it has been my education.\ He exhib- its to communicate these experiences and concerns to others. This exhibit will have the kinds of photographs which will invari- ably leave deep and lasting impressions Do Duncan. In I The Albany Center Galleries is open and free to the public Monday-Friday 10 AM- 4:30 PM and Sunday 12 PM-4 PM. For mtn,nnl'lhnn call462-4775. ..... really need to see another major trial tum into a sex scene?) The film brings in a number of support- ing characters who add depth to the thin storyline. Frances McDormand (most re- cent! y seen as the pregnant cop in Fargo) plays a neural psychologist who examines the boy and makes a grisly discovery about his past that may or rnay not implicate him in the crime. As the judge, Alfre Woodard really .has a throwaway role, as she is re- duced to drinking liCJuor in the courtroom and shouting objections to Vail's unethi- cal questioning practices. In one scene that could have been expanded upon, Vai,J calls the State's Attorney to the stand and questions him on the death of another cl i- ent. The connection this attorney has to the Archbishop is never developed -the boy takes up so much time, there really isn't room for more complexity without trimming some dialogue, which might have been a good thing. By the times the trial is over, Vail has undergone a transfonnation (although it's not obvious), as his 4 'mean streak\ is re- placed by a deeper understanding of his client. Before the trial, he refused to care whether or not his clients were guilty or innocent, but in the end, the pursuit of a fa:r trial (and a Not Guilty verdict) drives Vail to exhaustion. Whether or not Vail is vindicated in the viewer's mind is merely a personal choice, but since Gere does not add much detail to the character, Vail (and the rest of the cast) are fairly singular in structure. Hoblit's direction is to-the-point and his film should play well on TV screens be- cause the shots focus mainly on action- reaction between Vail and the boy, or Vail and Venable, or Vail and the judge, or ... you get the idea. In a time where dramas cen- tered in the courtroom are predictable, su- percharged, and wholly overblown. Primal Fear maintains a gutsy, fresh, and slick tone. Perhaps it could have been more ef- fective had it been a bit shorter (why does it drag itself out to a 130-m inute running time?), but since the story pulls new tricks from its sleeve, it can never be called rou- tine. Let's just make sure Gere does not find himself so financially-secure after this til m that he can return to medieval England. TV Time: \Here Come the Muppets Tonight!\ ... and There Go the Viewers by I ,nwrtnce Jlaskn Arts Editor and AII-Aro11nd Happy Guy I seldom watch television programs except for the news, hut when Muppets Tonight (ABC, Fridays, 8:31)-9:00 PM) premiered, I thought I would be committing sacrilege by missing it. Like most children ofthe late 70's and early 80's, I grew up on the Muppets. The Muppet Show was my favorite program on TV, and when the Muppets expanded themselves into five feature films and counting, yours truly was quite happy. Does anybody remember HBO's Fraggle Rock? That. too, was the cornerstone of my youth- ful experiences with the tube. And now comes the Muppets return to prime-time, over a decade since The Muppet Show exited the airwaves and over five years since their creator, Jim Henson, has passed away. Since the toddlers of today did not grow up with these colorful, lovable creatures, the show is rightfully not geared toward them. Instead, Muppets Tonight hopes to draw its viewers among people just like us: the college students who can relive their fond childhood memories of Kermit and Miss Piggy's romance-made-in-the-stars. Sadly, the creators and writers of Muppets Tonight decided to freshen the approach to the series, and by doing so have taken away all the characters we recognize as the main stars of the show-within-a-show. Gone is Kermit the Frog as the show's host and paranoid green guy; in his place is Clifford, a purple Rastafarian who means well but has no depth underneath his dreadlocks. Clifford simply doesn't convey that humorous sense of \ohmygod! We're going on the air in five seconds and we don't have an act!\ that Kermit flails his long green anns with and portrays so perfectly. Miss Piggy has been reduced to pig jokes and puns at her pompousness and obesity (even on Oscar night, she was the butt ofbigjokes centered on the film, Babe.) Fozzie the Bear didn't even show up until the third episode, and Gonzo and his amazing Chickens have amaz- ingly small side parts in each show. In their place are Randy and Andy, two unintelligent pigs who symbolize the evolution of comedy in the 1990s: one-liners aren't funny any more, but physical comedy is. When Andy and Randy hurt themselves, we are supposed to laugh. Don't Muppets have a sense of humor anymore, or are they only going to amuse us by falling off buildings and running into walls? Additionally, the new Muppets (and there are more than can be counted in each episode) are so indistinguishable and unremarkable that they merely serve to fill in background. Rowlfthe Dog may be plain and brown, but he can soar on that piano better than Elton John or (his inspiration in the 70s) Paul Williams. The shows try to do significant things with their guests, which produce mixed results. Garth Brooks' appearance one week was particularly funny - he kept trying to sing everything but country songs, and the half-hour show was really on-target. The next week, Billy Crystal appeared, and shared a side-splitting scene with Miss Piggy, remak- ing the diner scene from When Harry Met Sally .... Other guests, like John Goodman, were annoying to watch because they weren't terribly funny (not that Goodman's a riot to begin with). You know a show is in trouble when its guest star is overshadowed by a surprise guest star. When Leonard Nimoy and Larry King appeared on two separate shows for bit cameos, they awoke drowsy viewers. Every show needs to define itself in its early stages, and hopefully, Muppets Tonight will find itself really quickly. Its core audience cannot relate to the new show because it does not bring back fond memories. Likewise, new viewers of the Muppets will be turned off by its crude humor (Bay of Pigswatch was hysterical, but would a five-year- old get it?). Parents will turn off the set, bored with watching Muppets fall from ceiling fixtures and getting hurled across the stage. Muppets Tonight debuted in the Top 20 in its first week, but has since dropped off below the Top 50 for Prime-Time shows. In only one short month, we must say \it's time to get things started on the Muppet show tonight\ and get focused. Only then will a true modern American classic get the praise and recognition it deserves. Rating: C

Pagel3 Aprilll, 1996 m:~\ Clrn:n·corbien:sis LO··SE 20 POUNDS IN TWO WEEKS! Famous U.S. Women'sAlpineSki Team Diet During tbe.non-snow off season the U._S·. Women's Alpine ·Ski Teainmembersused the \Ski Team\ diet to lose 20pounds · ·. in two w~.~ks. Thatis right- 20 potmd\l in 14days! The basis of ·the diet is chemical food action and was devised by a famo~ · Colotado.physician especiruly for the U.S. Ski Team. Normal · energy is maintained (very important!)while reducing. You :keep \full''·-no ·statvation -because the diet is designed that . way. It~s a diet that is easy to follow whether you wo_rk, travel orstay at home. (For men, too·!) This is, honestly, a fantastically successful diet. If it weren't, the·U .S. Women's Alpine BkiTeam wouldn't be . pennitted to use it! Right? So, give yourself the same break the . . U.S. Ski Team gets. Lose w~ight th~ scientific, proven way . . Even if you've tried all the other diets, you owe it toyourselfto · · • try the U.S. Women's Alpine Ski Diet. That is, if you really do wantto lose 20pounds in two week:s.Ordertoday! Tear this ·out as a reminder. Send' only $8.95 ($9.60 in Calif.)-add .50 cents RUSH service· to: American Institute, 7343 ElCamino Real, Saite 206, Atascadero, CA 93422. Don't order unless you expect to lose 20 pounds in two weeks! Because that's what the Ski Team Diet will do. . P R I :'\ C I }> L E S o/ S 0 t 7'\ I) R E T I R E ,\\ E :'\ T I :'\ \' E S T l X G . E or fast relief from the nagging ache of taxes, we recommend TIAA-CREF SR.As. SRAs are tax• defe:rred annuities designed to help build additional assets-money that can help make the difference ~ between .living and living well after your working years are over. Contributions to your SRAs are deducted &om your salary on a pretax basi:>. That lowers yqur current taxable income, so you start saving on federal and, in most cases, state and local income taxes right away. What's more, any earnings onyour SRAs are also tax deferred until you receive them as income. That can make a big difference in how painful' your tax\ bill is every year. ~ - Ensuring the futui'e for those who shape it.'\ As the nation's largest retirement system, based on assets under management, we offer· a wide range of allocation choices-from the TIAA Traditional Annuizy, which guarantees principal and interest (backed by the company's claims-paying ability), to TIAA-CREF's diversified variable annuity accounts. And our expenses are very low,* which means more of your money goes tow;i.rd improving your future financial health .. To find out more, calll800 842-2888.We'll send you a co-~~Jplete SRA information kit, plus a free slide calcnla.tor that shows you how much ·sRAs can :lower your taxes. Call today-it couldn't hurt. . *StmuJartl ,; P011r:O !tlaumnct Rati;lf1Anal!!Jo/. 1995: Lipper Analytical Sorviccs, lnc .. Lipptr-DitWinr,, 'A.,,rfytic,ll Dill<!, 1995 (Quarterly). CREF ce·rtiftcates,are distributed ·by TlAA\-CREF Individual a11d Institutional Services, Int. For more complete information. including charges and t\XI?ens~s. t-ali 1 800 842.27'33, ext. 550~. foi' a. cut:rC'nt CREF prospectus. Rc~td the· prospectus ear:fully befOr~ you invest or send money. Advertisement \\\ION f (' WR'k\) \T~l'n Ml'tY tJ MINI-~\ION (J W«k\) \TAl'n J\Nr: fO \C'\\ION Z. (' WR'k\) \TAl'n JIILY l fOP. Cl>MPI.C\'T INfOll.MA'TION, CAU. r-loo-71.1-\\~\MI'o\C'k (71,,). SIXTH ANNUAL STEINMETZ SYMPOSIUM Friday, May 10,1996 12:40:..6:20 p.m. Banquet- 6:30 p.m. For students in all classes and in all disciplines who have creative, scholarly or research projects to offer. Sign-up forms are available from Kathy Hopper Science and Engineering - S-1 00 Deadline for turning in forms April 19, 1996 Schaffer Library Book Sale 1996 Aprill5 & 16 12:00-4:00 pm The sale will be held on the lower level of Schaffer Library Hardcovers $1 ,00 Papaerbacks $.50 Bag Sale on Tues. April 16th from 2:00 until 4:00pm. $2:00/bag. ON ThuRSdAy, ApRil 1 8, AT 8:00PM iN T~E MulTiculTuRAl RooM, CC ~ 06, UNioN CollEGE QUEER 101 A vidEo ON THE li\IES of qAy, lEsbiAN & bisEXuAl co~EGE srudENTS. diREcTEd, EdiTEd &HlMEd bysrudeNts liEREAT UNioN CollEGE, AbOUTsrudEMS iN OU~AR£A. nefru:sliMEMS ro follow WHALE WATCH '96 April27-28 Provinc_etown, Caue.Cod Leave Union Satur<Jay morning, romp on a National Seashore Beaclt, cht!ck in at Provincetown, 4:15 Whale Watching abourd the Dolpltin Fleet. Sunday morning go to Boston for the day and J;eturn to Union early evening. Total cost $35 (due at sign-up)' Sign up now in the Biology Dept. Office. .. ...

Pagel3 Aprilll, 1996 'IDfre <!Ioncoruiensis Advertisement LOSE 20 POUNDS IN TWO WEEKS! ROCHESTERIANS, UNITE AT MCC.~~ (YOVR._ \VMMER.. (OVRSE RES\OVR.CE) Famous U.S. Women's Alpine Ski Team Diet During the non-snow off season the U.S. Women's Alpine Ski Team members used the \Ski Team\ diet to lose 20pounds in two weeks. That's right- 20 poundc; in 14 days! The basis of the diet is chemical food action and was devised by a famous Colorado physician especially for the U.S. Ski Team. Nonnal energy is maintained (very important!) while reducing. You 6tt M<tOn ~t qf \f~r f\i~t~~~tter. 6et jt.(ll co\1r{e md!t itt jAr te{$ tlMte. At f1((. ~e{t <Yj «1\., f1(C{ mttft tr«H{jer{ to colle,e{ mtd \iltlver{(tl'e{ c:urof{ tile \i.{.A. .• keep \full\ - no starvation -because the diet is designed that way .It's a diet that is easy to follow whether you work, travel or stay at home. (For men, too!) Sreut 'if \fo\ir j~nw1 fkr<l\il)k coll~e. 6rt \ r~~~ffn Ot.1t gJ -tM \'\-'1· r &OO. ~ C0\111& \fo« ve l:leeh ~11'). Or n-t~ R <o«J1e &«t too~ \jO\i. f1({ qffU{ 'jotot two C«K4~{e{., wAA over }oo co«rfe{ to dloo{e jrOM1. All «t tke tow ro{t gf ~'+ f« mtUt N\ir. ~e {ltW't. 6rt mdlt for (\'\K4K4er. At M«. \f~~lt>N I (6 WUk\) \~hl'N f.4AY z.1 MINI-\C\\\ION (J WC\C'k\) \TAln j\NC' IO \f\\lt>N %.. (6 WfC\k\) \Thl'N Jt~l.V 8 This is, honestly, a fantastical:ly successful diet. If it weren't, the U.S. Women's Alpine Ski Teatn wouldn't be permitted to use it! Right? So, give yourself the same break the U.S. Ski Team gets. Lose weight the scientific, proven way. Even if you've tried all the other diets, you owe it to yourself to try the U.S. Women's Alpine Ski Diet. That is, if you really do want to lose 20 pounds in two weeks. Order today! Tear this out as a reminder. f1o{t m c;wru'l\\'e wkett \j0\1 «n-IMOnttHI)., «ftmtoott_, or eve~tiH,-{o \JOli r«H Mfl1 Aftl~ lWlt tki'{ {11.tMtw,r. FOil Ct>.1'4fUtt 1Nft>i'JI4ATlt>N ,~ CAU.. J-loo-71.+-\\Mioi\CJ. (7&66). Send only $8.95 ($9.60 in Calif.)m add .50 cents RUSH service to: American Institute, 7343 El Camino Real, Suite 206, Atascadero, CA 93422. Don't order unless you expect to lose 20 pounds in two weeks! Because that's what the Ski Team Diet will do. ·• ~ . . . . . ' PRINCIPLES o[SOUND nETIREMENT INVESTING . . ,} . . . ~ .. · . J ,. E or fast relief from the nagging ache of taxes, we ecommend TIAA-CREF SRAs. SRAs are tax· deferred annuities designed to help build additional assets- money that can help make the difference between living and living well after your working years are over. Cont,;butions to your SRAs are deducted from your salary on a pretax basis. That lowers your current taxable income, so you start saving on federal and, in most cases, state and local income taxes right avvay. What's more, any earnings on your SRAs are also tax deferred until you receive them as income. That can make a big difference in how painful your tax bill is every year. Ensuring the futttte for those who shape it.'\ ~--- --~· As the nation's largPst retirement system, baseJ on assets under management, we offer a wide rang<> of allocation choices-from the TIAA Traditional Annuity, which guarantees principal and interest (backed by the company's claims-paying ability). to TIAA-CREF's diversil'ied variable annuity aceounts. And our expenses are very low,* which means more of your· money goes toward improving your future financial health. To find out more, rail I 800 842-2888.We'll send you a complete SRA information kit, plus a free slide calculator that shows you how murh SRAs can lower your taxes. Call today- it ,·ould n't hurt. 4< .'·,./r/luJ,,nJ ,.~· n,,,,.;, !n.turtllll'l' Ratmq An.dy.lt,•. lf)95. Lrpprr Aruly .. tu ,,I SC'r\ II t\!> I nl -· '·lfllt\r lhrtt!r•r.• ln.tlvlttlll /l,J/.J' Pill[} I (Ju.trl~rl.\ l CREF n•rtJ!iutfC''> .uC' d!~tnbuted hy TIAA~CREF lncllvlc-lunl .1nd ln~tlllliH\Hl.ll Srp,;Ju•s. lnl Vor mon, nmplet£' ~nlorm.tiHHl tn1 lu,lm~ o.h<~rgC'-. . 1n•l C' '! p£'n~rc:. • ,,II I ROO R42-27.7i.l ex 1 [,!}O'l. lnr .1 , ur rrnt l'n 1•: F pr \J'i'''' t u ... Rl· .• J•i tlh· P' .,..,~ ... , tu-. , '\' ,.f ,.11_, l,t•lnr, \ • u• '''\' -.1 on -.enol JIH!III\.Y SIXTH ANNUAL STEINMETZ SYMPOSIUM Friday~ May 10, 1996 12:40-6:20 p.m. Banquet-6:30p.m. For students in all classes and in all disciplines who have creative, scholarly or research projects to offer. Sign-up forms arc available from Kathy I Ioppcr Science and Engineering- S-1 00 Deadline for turning in forms April 19, 1996 Schaffer Library Book Sale 1996 April 15 & 16 12:00-4:00 pm The sale will be held on the lower level of Schaffer Library Hardcovers $1.00 Papaerbacks $.50 Bag Sale on Tues. April 16th from 2:00 until 4:00pm. $2:00/bag. ON THURSdAy, ApRil 1 8' AT 8:00 PM iN diE MulTiculTuRAl RooM, CC '} 06, UNioN CollEGE OUEER 101 A vidEo ON THE liVES of GAY, LESbiAN & bisEXuAl coUEqE srudENTS. diREcTEd, Ed irEd & filMEd by SllldENTS ~ERE AT UNioN CollEGE, AbOUT ~dENTS iN OUR AREA. REffiEs~MENlS TO follow WHALE WATCH '96 April27-28 Provincetown, Cape Cod Leave Union Satunlay morning, romp on a ~ational Scashor(' Beach, check in at Provincetown, 4:15 Whail' WatchinA aboard the Dolphin Fleet. Sunda~ morning 1-(0 to Boston fo1· the day and retm·n to llninn l'arl~ l'Vening. Total cost $35 (due at sign-up) Sign up now in the Biology Dept. Office .

Page 14 Aprilll, 1996 'mlye ct!oncorbiensis Sports Dutchmen show heart in Fl.orida Christopher Leone Union College Baseball For the first time in a few years, the Union baseball teamwas able to attain a winning record during their annual spring break trip to Ft. Myers, Florida. The 5-4 record achieved against some tough teams from across the country, prompted Coach Gary Reynolds to say that he was \optimistic\ about the teams potential for tht~ season. Though he felt it far to early to discuss a possible sea- son ending record, Coach Reynold~ would say that \the goal for the team is to end the sea- son with an above .500 wining percentage,\ a goalthat has not been reached in four years. This achievement would be an impor- tant step for the baseball program which has suffered through hard times and injuries over the past few seasons. The optimistic attitude about this year's season can be attrib- uted to the team's depth and hard work ethic towards the basic fun- damentals of the game. Coach Reynolds felt that even though the team is very young, it is a team that is both offensively and defensively sound. The coach concluded his summary of the team by saying that \the work ethic that was shQwn in Florida must continue. Based on that ethic. we should be able to show something successful from our work.'\ It is without question that the success.ofthis year's team will faJ.J heavily on the development and work of the young players coupled with the leadership brought to the team by the upper class men. If everything is to come together. the goal Coach Reynolds has set fer the 1996 sea- son could easily be obtained. The Dutchmen showed a great deal ofresilience during the it week Jong nine game trip to Florida. Heading into the last day. the Dutchmen had were able to go 3- l with two ofthose victories com- . ing in a double header sweep of Franklin Pierce ( 1 0-7.10-3 ). l tow- ever the last two games of the trip were to be played against Missouri Valley and Colby. Both teams had soundly beaten the Dutchmenbyacombined 15 runs earlier in the week. Instead of packing it .in and heading back North. the team went out and battled to achieve the goal of coming home with a winning record. The Dutchmen prevailed with two wins from be~ hind due to the strong pitching of two freshmen. Pitcher Craig K~ierczak ( 1-0) gained credit for 6-5 the victory over M is.\iouri Val- ley. while Michael Riveles (l-0) picked up the 10-R victory over Colby courtesy of some clutch hitting by Ryan Smith. Senior co-captain James Crewe ..... Continued from back page ability of adaptation and mental toughness, the novice women are already demanding respect from next weekend's competition at Hobart William-Smith. The NM 8 allowed Rochester seven tenths of a second in the closest racing ofthe day. Union's hard-fought loss was recognized as their most valiant racing effort against a crew equally detennined to pass the finish line first. Final racing of the day came with a VM 4+ finish falling three seats short of victory over Rochester. lJn~on Crew's varsity men intend to use the training experience leading up to Philadelphia's Dad Vails as sus- tenance for their increasing hun• ger of spring medals. Both our novice and varsity men and can be seen proving wrong any as- sumptions Hobart's ·boys might already be making at next weekend's President's Cup race in. Geneva. New York. Find out what Kaplan students learn to get a higher score! Attend a free 90-minute class. • learn key test-taking strategies • receive helpful hints for test day • find out about our money .. back guarantee* April 15th - 21st is Free Class Week at Kaplan! CALL TODAY TO RESERVE YOUR SEAT IN CLASS! • II you Use our full Stuyvesant Plaza, Albany Restrictions apply. Call for details. Knight, Adam Myers and Jeremy Pflaum lead the offensive charge that allowed the Dutchmen to gain victories. Myers. a junior out- fielder~ collected a team high 14 RBI's while hitting a triple and a home run to achieve a .400 aver- age. Pflaum pelted out 7 hits in 15 at bats. to .gain an impressive .467 average. Most . impressive was the leadership shown by Knight, who batted an astQunding .538, including 3 doubles and a triple. while driving in 7 runs. Sopho- more Josh Soldo lead Union in innings pitched with 12, while maintaining a low2.27ERA. Pitch- ing victories in Flori<la would also come from Kazmierczak; Riveles, DennisStapfand Jeffrey GuptilL It is this type of contribution from experienced varsity players and freshmen pitching in Florida, that will be ·needed if the Dutchmen wish to completely fulfill their po- tential' for this season. Union Goes Cold up North After going 5-4 in Florida. the Dutchmen opened the northern part of their season with double header against Skidmore on Fri- day, April 5th. Unfortunately., as the team returned to colder weather, so did their play. Due to . the facts that Union was unable to produce much offense. and committed several fielding errors. thC' ~cam dropped hoth games. Josh Soldo ( 1-2' received little of- fensive help ·during a 6-1 first game loss. The same situation oc- curred in the 8-2 second game loss for pitcher David Kl.ine (0-3). Offensively, Union wasonlyable to musteta few hits at a time. and could never mount a significant rally. Coach Reynolds stated that the losses were a result of\being a young team.'' Unfortunately it is well known that young teams are rn~re likely to make mistakes and are more prone to having off days. Coming :off the defeats at Skidmore. the Dutchmen traveled to R. P. l. to piay another dpuble header against the 12th ranked team in D_ivision III. Gam~ one was dominated by Redhawk pitcher Bill Snyder wh~ .faced 22 batters while allowing one hit through the 7 inning ganw. The team's only hit came courtesy of David Berstein during the third inning .while Union wastrailing,2-0. The Dutchmen's inability to hit Snyder was compounded by the factthat three Union pitchers combined to allow 9 walks and hit three bat- ters. Starting pitcher Guptill took the loss. movjng his record to 1-l. as Union lostthe firstgame S-0. In the second game, Unionwas never able to get offensively on track. while R.P.I.,on theway to a 9·0 victory, scored 5 first inning runs off starting pit~her Stapf( I- t). Despite the final score. there ·were several hrighl spots t(> he mentioned for the Dutchmen .. During the 3td inning with run- ners on first and second, and no one out, Union was able to turn a baseball rarity, a. trip.leplay. Right fielder Michael' Riveles caught.a fly ball for the first out and then fired the ball home tonail a runner trying to score fram second. Catcher Jeff Harri·gan then ·quickly threw to second: to col- lect the third out and end a pos• sible big inning for RPJ. Another notable was freshmen pitcher CraigKazmierczak who struck out 5. whit~ yiehiingtwo runs during two effective inn-ings of relief work. Despite. the tough day. ·Coach Reynolds stated that he was \proud ofthe teams effort against a nationally tanked pro- ram ., g . Dennis Staph sumed -up the · w~ekend road trip the ,best when he said''we mayhave had a rough weekend, but there is a lot of sea~ son leftto play, and hopefully we will be ableto return to our win• ning ways in th;e next couple games.\ On April13. and 14, the Dutch- men will try to sn:1p there north· ern cold streak by playing a pair ofdouble headers at home against Hartwick and Utica. Both games are schedule to be played at Central Park in Schenectady with the first pitch coming at l prit Dire.ctions to the park can be obtained through the Athletic Ollicc ut 38&-6284.. NEW THEME DORM SEEKS APPLICANTS!!!-! -Are you interested in Asian culture. history~ food, etc??? -Are you looking for a convenient and comfortable place to live? -Are you willing to share your time and talents with others? The check out the Asia-Interest Tl:leme Dorm,proposed for Davidson next year (in ZBT s current space.) We seek students who want to stretch their cultural horizons, and who will pitch in to help us shape this new cooperative living arrangement. APPLICATIONS ARE DUE TUESDAY APRIL 17TH!!!! To receive an appli- cation, give your name and phone number to Prof. Reynolds in Economics (extension 6217; email reynoldb@gar.union.edu). ' Steering Committee: E.J. Achtner, Isca Beswick, Tsz Chik, Nalini Gupta, Victor Owusu, Geo ffOravec, F ei-Lu Qian;-Bruce Reynolds, Sanders Valloppillil, Stephanie Yrung COLLEGE RINGS b Newest Styles! Any College, Any. Year! Thre Week Delivery. Now available direct by accessing our Web. site on the internet. Fully Guaranteed, Great Prices. Co,me vist · our site and order your College Class Ring. http://www.collegerings.net Or phone us at (718) 443-4260 ; ! '

t ···h' .... :'.e:_. __ -._. . ·:' -_ ' .J;. ' . . .· '·. . . . .. .•. k ·o ... · . . . •• • t rner St i b C . t t'nly not a· lc. m. I have to think, though, that , • en rem)er, · era ... · · . . ·stranger to the·headlines.. thereisa~etter way t(i) deal With · '· For ·the last two ·years,. thiproblemthan tosimply upand ~...,..,...--------~...._,_--~ • Steinbrenner: has been threaten- · ·leave:·WhaJ if the city wer~td take Anyone' who :has ever been to i!\g· to 'mo~e his team out of the ··some of~he ni~ney the~- plan to Camden y irds ih ·Baltimore,. the Bronx and, quite possibly, to New . use to.!Jutl d. the new stadru~ and, home ofth~Orlo.Jes. has nothing ·Jersey, ifhe d·idnotgeta newsta~ insteaa, quadruple· the secu.tity but wonderful sentiments to ex-· dium. ·: ... ast week, he got his wish.: forces in. and around the sta<!.1utn, press'aho~UhebaJ:lpark. No~v in New York Mayor Rudy Guiliani area orh'ire more police officers. its fifth sea's6n 0 f operation, announced the city's intention to 'That 01 ight in1provelife not only Camden Yards is an <J'Id-style build a ene biUioti dollar stad-ium for garne:..goers: but for people baiJpark, 'bt.ii'ft 'Yith the hopes of on the west side of Manhattan: who h:i\e to live there· as well. Re- bringing 6ad~.old..:time baseball as My'· question \'is what is wrong ·gardless,'leaving the Bronx out to Grt'lgKalisli .StqffU,rtiter .... the nationaJpastiine it used. to be. . with the c:uire~l Yankee Stadium dry is not 'go_ing to 'h-elp anyone, · It was also 'built with the hopes of ·thathaving a ballpark on the west except Qeorge's·purse .. '<ltqc ClLoucnrbicn:~Jis •Aprilll, 1996. • Page 15 4/13-HARlWIC'K 1:00 4/14- UTICA 1:00 7-IIAMILTON2:00 ·Track Softball . 1 -@St. Rose 5:00 · 3- UTI~A 1:00 4/16-RPI 3:00 4/18 -@New Paltz 3:00 Tennis 4/13- UCAA Tournament @Hobart 1 :00 4/l 7- @St. Rose 3:00 Women's L~crosse 4/13-@ Hamilton 12:00 4/16- SIENA 6:30 . Men's Lacrosse 4/t 2-SKIDMOREJ;:30 4/13 ~ RPI 2:00 4/16-SPRINGFIELD 3:30 Union Swimmers Return Vrom National Championships rm~ting fannie~ in the seats on a side will fix? Guiliani st~ted that he! coulqnot regular bfisis. That strategy has ·ab.orge ha,1ftWo major com- stand th'e thought of hbttihg the worked .. Despite no.:t having the plaints about tfie place the yan-_' Y-ankees'. one of profess_ional best teams of the last few years, kees .. now ·call l:iome which, he spo'rts '· great franchises~ leave the Oriole~ hQv~ been packing daHnll .. dissuades fans from at- New York Maybe· the pros and them: in ·since the place opened. tentflng,g~incs. tledaiil)sthatac- . conssliould he weighed. Tni'flic, . Pcopie have come from all over cess to !he ~~dlpark is d_ffficult and which already can be torturous in finished with a first place dive, and t~e ~ouniry .to see Camden :Yards, . par~inlH's. fimited, an,d, that the. the city ,.is :going to he nightmar- Aaron Sicotte in the 3 meter he plac;ed 2nd in the riot so much to see the Orioles.. ifi'll1.1~diate'.are~ ~round Yankee ish. 'Pi:'!opleare tlot even going to StaffWrit_ter country. Ca~nden Yar<ls_,;ts a shftne, :a rriu\' · · st<idlili!:i is unsafe and no.t 'fit for want .tol::orne into the city on a The mens relays .were equally seum a inonu~enttohaseball.lf : fat:itUies-.tb he. walking aro.urid in daywhen the Yanks have a home. As the Union .community en- successfuL The 400 Medley relay oniy ;he city of Baltimute knew · the.: dark 't'rYin~· to'}ind tli·e_ir car game. ·wnne'husfness in the im- tered another stressing exam week of Humphreys, Anderson. die tthunl.e tfiey wouid be start- ·after a n1ghtgatn'e. Other than that, ·rricdi!ite:a·re;i might improve, over• last term. a select few members of Makarowsk i, ai1d Hoet'le finished · <. · · '\· . ·he ad;m:its-that. ther(: .is nothing aU. the-city~s·ecdilomy would be t'he· U.nion Co .. U.e .. ge mens swim- 2nd in the nation. The same team _m~here are few teams who have · sthictu'rally ·wrong With 'the st~ · .Jd.amttg'ed ··And what about th.e ming team were hattl ing the best -with the exception of Searles for notmli\dendiii~~abouttheirwant- dit1m .... ' , ··, .. ·:' .· Bron,x'?ls.itji.Jstlefttorotafterthe swimmers in the country at the Makarowski-finished Jrd.inthe ing or needing a· new fl)9ility. in -.Perhaps George is forgetting . Yankees depart and the stadium National Swimming Champion- 200 Medley. A fifth place finish which '{()ptay'ffieirhomes..games. that' fie owns a team that plays in. is tQrn down? What ·does build- ships in Atlanta, Georgia. The was achieved in the 800 Free by Teams lfke the Rangers, the . New YorkCity.'Acce~s·tbabage( 'rng anew stadium and encourag- team consisted .of Micheal Searles, Hoerle. Chris Riley, and Rockies and the lndlanshave al- onisi.ice.Mpizza is tough if you · ing the Yankeestoleavesay about 1 lu;nphteys. Kevin Makarowski, Makarowski. With Hl.lmphreys in ready g~ttcn:tiew parks. The ~r- 'trydrivingthrmjgh 1~idtownatthc the city's desire to rebuild that .lefT Jlocrlc, i)ayc Searle!\, Mark l'llrScarlcs, the relay team finished chitects :lt~(fcngiti,ecrs whc> wn> · wrori.g tiln·c ·. ·Wilen you, and :\rca? It' '_\ 0 u~tl pretty· much de- Anderson,. und the lone diver, 4th in the 400 Free. /\lll(lur relays structC'<(tJiese stadiums nave f'ol-; ·twenty, to 'fifty ·thousand other· press nie tfl hved there, Brian Field. The top eight places set school records with their lowed the example set forth by p~ople ~re all going· to dwsam~ · 'Thisisj~st anotherexamplc ~f are All-Americans, and nine times. In the other relay, CamdenYatds,andithaspaidoft. place. well~haturally it'$ going to how out of control thesportshust- through sixteen arc Honorable Hutnphreys. Makarowski, Hoerle, Even I ast season,-despite wide- . take some time. hrwhat possible . ness has be com e. George Mention All-Americans. Four of and Riley finished 9th in the 200 spread··ran discontent resulting way yould putting·a Stadium on Steinbrenner hasNcw YorkCity the swimmers finished at leastone Free. All of their. performances fromthesttike.in l994,theRockics · ·the West side of Mtlnhaftan im- by the Easter eggs. and. as a .rc- race in the top 8 and the other two combined were enough for a 3rd and thelndians.sold out all oftheir .~ro.V.e fan access? The area neat suit. New York residents are go- both achieved Honorahle Men- place finish in the nation home.games. The Indians arc al- the Javits Center is already con- ing to s.uffer via !ncreased taxc~. tion.llmnpreyshad an impressive · The weekend prior to the mens ready sold out for this season. stantly packed with people, cars, One.thtng '· d?n ~understand IS day finishing first in the nation in meet. the women had their Na- Granted, they have a very good tra.ffic, horses and buggies, etc. that If I am hvmg 111 House A and the I 00 back stroke, while setting tiona I Championships. The only team. There is subway access to the I want to move to House B,l pay a school record. He also set a two Union women to qualify were But other owners, those with area,hutthereisalsosubwayac- for it. ldon'taskmytownorrny ~hoolrccordinthe200Backplac- Megan McCarthy, and Jenn not such good teams, have been cess to the current Yankee sta- congressman to pay for it Why ing2nd. In the 50 Free, he finished Allaire. McCarthy swam to 5th carefully watching a~thescncw dium. Andwherearepcoplego- aren't these owners, George with an lith place finish. placcinthe200Breastanda7th stadiums rake in the bucks. Per- ing t<) paik, on the Intrepid? There Steinbrenner in particular. being Makarowsk i tlnished with a 2nd place in the I 00 Breast. She also haps stemming from jealousy, will be little to no room for park- held financially responsible for place in the 200 LM. while setting finished 11th in the. 200 I. M. these owners are atso asking for ing, with the spaces that are go- any part of the cost of these new another school record. In the 200 Allaire finished lOth in both the newhomes. Some have legitimate ing to be-available costing a small state-of-the-art stadiu_~s? , Why Fly, t:e swm:n to a 5th place finish 200 and 400 I. M. (with a school gripes. Milw~ukee'sCountySta- fortune.· do I have to pay for It. Its not - agam settmg a school record- record) to finish her college ca- dium is antiquated, and Anaheim As far asSteinhrcnncr's second over yet, though. The Mets have .. and in the 400 I M. he ended with rcer. The two participants were Stadium in Cal ifomiahasbee'n se- point is concerned, it is an unfor- justbegun negotiations for 3 nc':\ an 8th place finish Hncrlc tinishcd enough to give the '}._n,ion women verely damaged twice by earth- tunate fact that certain parts ofthe place nearby Shea. Thanks Baltl- 5th in the 20.0 Free, and, in the 100 a 2ind finish overall. quakes. Butothers do not. One in Bronx have deteriorated over the more, thanks a lot. Fly, Searles placed 14th. Ande.r- With many of the Union swim- particular is Yankee owner George years. Crime is certainly a prob- . son swam in hotb_ the 100 and 200 1ners who partic,ipated,in Nation- The Graduate Manageme~t Institute Sharpe Seminar presents LOUIS'E ·WOERNER Chainnan; CEO, and Owner ()f HCR, a health service~ finn and Chainnan, New X or]( State Pr,blic Health Co unci . disCU$Sing . \Entrepreneurial Ventures in Health Care\ Wednesday, April17, 4:30PM, Reamer Campus Center Auditorium ·. . Ms. Woerner has rece'ived:t11e Pre-sidential Award for Entreprer\e(ti'ialE.xcellence. · · .. Do You Want VISA & MastetCa.rtl Credit Cards?. . ICJ turn 'd-..s! · IIJ credit chectsl IICJ secur-Ity depositl Breast finishing lOth a.nd 12th. !llsretuming.next ye~r., both the respe.ctiv~Jy. Field: had an ex- men and womens t~~ins should tremelyimpressi~e day in the.div- have· verys.uccessful.years again . In com :eHtion.~In tlte t~meter he in the '97 season. · . For Sale:·POOL-1 ABLES , (two). Used.EXCE~LENi CONDITION. SoJid sJate with top ·qu~lity covering. Ha.tutsome side.woqd paneling. · ·. · Bo'tliar~ 46 im!h~s ~ide: O~ie is 78 inches long: the other 82 jli;c\he11. Prices ·are $BOO .al\d $1200. litchidesa set of Aramith balls. c11e sticks. ami racks. .wm deliv~r and set. up,. Can be seen Mon .• f'ri. mornings tintii noon at 133 S. Church'. St., just below the bus station. Also by appoinhnent. :::; · Adelalne O'Connor, J74-JOl8; Linda Whitbeck 377-2162 . r vt1c7t7t;t•,N-: -F£oiRAL- ..;;. :s-uiTE -2 i 6- - 1 , t. HOI•LYHOOD, FLORIDA .,3 20 : YJ~S! lwantVIS\•IMAS'fERCI\RD8Cmtlt 1 I Canlsapp~. llnmedtately. 100\1t GUARANtEEDI I I . . I I I NAME ---~- --.-~-----:----,------ :. ADD~s' --......--------...___.. _____ . -. \- -·- CnY --..---- STATE -ZIP-- PHONE --~-- S.S.~ ----- SIGNATURe .. - --\':-\-------------- NOm f.f.ul...card tta Rpl~rto4 trarkl'nl!dt d· ..... nOint ln.,.wnatim•l. lr• Vha li • !ql'\le..-d tr.alkn••tl of \liSA USA. lne ••lit \15A lll~rur:ttlnt\.11 . t';ttl!l i:ll]:t!JilttC?J!I!Itt~l:l M~ f \ J I I ' I • I I f • I I '-

Aprilll, 1996 PAGE16 /1T -~... ... \!_L,nn.cnr u t.ensts Union Track alld.Field~Has; Good ·Showing Ag:ainst Hamilton by Mike Leding StaffWriter Hamilton Tr~ck and Field ar~ rived at Bailey Field on Satur9ay . with about thirty more competi- tors than the men's and women's squad ofUnion had. No matter; Union was prepared to try and thwart Hamilton's attempt to out score us due to lack of personnel. ln the end the women ended up losing 89-SO, and the menlost89- 74. Despite the losses therewere numerous outstanding perfor- mances showing a sign of hope for this young season. The top three finishers placed in every meet. Linda Seymour started off the scoring in the 5000 meters by plac- ing second in a time of 21:12.4. The trio of Danielle Steele, Au- tumn Renn, and Kathy Bugden swept the long jump with leaps of 4.70 meters, 4.65 meters, and 4.13 meters respectively. Steele also won the 100 high hurdles in a time of 1 6. 5 seconds, and finished sec- ond in the I 00 meters in 13.6 sec- onds. Bugdcn also scored in a plethora of events placing second in the 100 meter high ·hurdles in a time of 18 .. 8 seconds, second in third in a time of5:33.5 .. Heather Leet placed second in the 400 meters ina time ofl :09.7. In ~he 800 meters Jessica Goveia and Molly Hood placed second and third respectively in times of 2:32.3 and 2:34.7. Michelle Woodward placed first in the ham- mer with a throw ot'30.08 meters. In the 3000 meters Amelia Audette placed third in a time of II :29~2. placed second in 51.7 seconds. finishit:tgthird was Nick Conway in a· time of 53.8 seconds .. Jon Gainorplaced second .in the ham- mer with a distance oJ 41.92 meters. Gainor also placed sec- ond in the discus with a toss of 34 .. 86 meters. ln the long jump Rich Ling. placed first with a leap of6.01 meters and JasonJennings placed third travel ihg a <distance of . 5 .. 83 meters. In the toe · meters the fastest man alive· in New York state next . to RPI 's Gilmore won the 100 meters in a time of TO. 9 sec- o n d s , Morton finished thi.rd in a timeof11.6 seconds. Pete Flynn turned around to winthe800 meters ina time of 2:01.4. Riggi pulled off double as well as Flynn by winning the 200 meters ina timeof22.14seconds, Jennings placed third in the: 200 in a time of22.9 seconds. Steve . . McCann r,an masterfully in the 5000 meters in a time ofl6.28.5. Jn the tr:iplejumpMike Martin placed second 12.23 meters. ln the high jumpJasonJennings cleared 5 feet 8 inches to place first, and Ling placed third. To end; the day the 4ic400meterrelayteamefConway, ~eding, Jetinings, .and -Flynn placed first in a time ofJ:Z9.7 to defeat Hamilton by 5 seconds .. This weekend \he team tr~lvels to RPl for the UCAA meet. So good l\tck to. everyone as they continue to get in s,hape, and con- ' gratulations on a job well done .. · the 400 meter hurdles 1 : liU, first in the triple jump with a leap of 8 95 meters. and first in the high jump clearing 4 feet. In the 1500 meters Katie MacDowell placed The statechampionship4x800 meter relay team decided not to run and in their place Jay Goldberg. Seth Rudin. Nick Conway. Pete Flynn ran a disgust- ing time of9:3 5.4 to place first run- ning against absolutely no one. Goldberg was thrilled because he realized it might be the only time he scores this season. Actually he 'II score again _this weekend because Rudin is out of town. In the Javel in last years eighth place finisher at Nationals Matt Johnson placed first with a toss of57.98metets. 1nthe4xl00meter relay the team of Kojo Attah, Shuron Morton, Jason Jennings, and Dave Riggi destroyed llmniltonin a timeof43.Rscconds. In the 1500 meters, freshmen sen- sation Pete Flynn grabbed first in a timeof4:14.5 followed by Seth Rudin (who I might add istaking this weekend off to go down to Daytona to fly a model airplane, and the school is paying for this) in second inatimeof4:17.2. In the 400 meters Mike Leding Kojo Attah -hands ·oft' baton tQ.Shur-on·Morton. Photo by l.AtureiRurna/Concordie~iS . , Women's Lacrosse Evens Record by Jon Fader Sports Editor The Union Women's Lacrosse team entered this past weekend with a 1-1 record. A fterrecording an early season victory over Wells, and suffering their first loss to Oneonta, they had two games scheduled this past weekend. On .Friday, they lost a heartbreaking shootout, 15-13, to St. Lawrence. They responded with a dominant 15-5 victory over Clarkson on Sat- urday. evening their record at2,.2. The Women's Lacrosse team re- turns to the. field with a game at Middlebury on Thursday,and on Saturday they visit Hamilton. The Women's Lacrosse team hopes tJo improve on last year's season, under the guidance of coach Charlene Roberts. The team is looking to senior co- captainsLauren lngis.and Nicole Salmos for leadership on the field. Big expectations have. been set for goal scorers Lauren Pastor, Li(:: Kittleman,and Becca Wright. The goaltending duties are s.plit between Sarah Rettersdorf, • Hillary Jospe,andMaura Weisner. ' Freshman center Shoko Okado and so.phomre midfie.lder Lani Doyle should contribute as well. If the young Dutchmen gel together by m idseason, they have ·the talent to be contentlers for-the tea1gue title. Photo by Rick Lederer/ Contortfiensis .. ,:·'·-~. UNION CREW ROCKS ROCHESTER by UCRA Public Relations Even though the Getiesee River was still lined with snow this past weekend., Union Crew traveled to Rochester det~rmined to post some impressive victo- ries on a tough 1700 meter course. While Rocheste~ offer.ed themselves as Union's first regu- lar season competition, Wash· ington College in Chestertown, Maryland provided our novice • squads with the:ir first spring ; sprintexperi~mce. Union'sNM8 , held an 'impressive w,in against · ington College in a race so close as to be. declared a \real barnbumer\ by Varsity Coach Tom White. Similar proclama- . tionswere made as·the VM 8 fell a length short·of w.i'nriirtgagainst . Washingto.n Calleg~snationally . ranked men's program. All told. · Union's spring trainitigweekin the heart of the mid-Atlantic provided excellent ptepafation: . for OUJ creW's upcoming season · of calculated success. Union's VW 4 set the ton~ for • Sunday's racing by posting a win . with open water against : Rochester's precocious stern four. Coxswain Katie \Log ; D:o~ger'' Murray, Cargl ine ' ''Gouged Ctilvcs\ Ncmet. Kenley . ~··vrotal Spandex\ Smith. Katie 1 ~Pirst Shirt\ Ott, andJen \Some- one Better Have Got That Win On Film\ Brady put Rochester away. early and continued-to in- crease the. distanc~ between themselves and the home team. The v~r~ity women's pounding . .ofthe.Rochester Ye1l9wJ~ckets ·is the. first steptowalid ultimatt? success in the W4+ competition this May atNatienals in Worces- ter, Massachusetts. Following the lead of their varsity teammates, the WN 8 put Rochester away quite handily. Coxswain Heath Fradkoff. \Humble\ Hannah Davis, Sarah \G()od Job Hannah-!\ Ahart. Jamie \Beastly\ Bunchuk, Dana \Stayin' Alive\ Weinkranz, Susanna \Crepe Sousette\ Ryan, and Helen \Hellion'' Woznack didn't allow the Roch- ester novices an inch over 'the winding course. Everfwith a ten-second .penalty assessed due to Heath's' superior cox- swain skills~ our n()vice women were able to pmticipate in the ultimater~watd··of competition: accepting .the tace shirts of the defeated. Rochester eight.· Later inthe·afternoon, theNW 8 raced (without pity) their stem four against Rochester's well-pre- pared NW 4+. Naturally. the race yielded thesameresults and our women returned to Union boast- ing two wins. With an amazing ' . . . . Continuedori·page 14

.. ... nnrnr t.ensts The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Volume CXxv, Number X Schenectady, New York April 18, 1996 Library Assistance Day: Union Schaffer Library Staff Recognized by StepllJ~nie Slobotkin News Editor 1l1ere are mystery faces behind closed doors in Union's very own Schaffer Library. Their conspicu- ous facade is seen only in the re- sults th~y produce. 11tey orga- nize books. 11tey order books. Titey make your research process flow much easier by providing you with numerous magazines and other. resources. No, these hardworking people are not li- brarians, but .are the library staff. TI1ere is a significant difference between a staff member and a H- brarian. Librarianshelp students find infon:natiouand service their direct needs, whereas the staff work behind the scenes to make your research process more fac- ile. In order to become familiar with these hidden faces, Libraly Assistance Day will ~e held on April 17.. l11is day was desig- nated·to infonn people how much effort goes into their public or academic libraries. In the SchafferLibrary, pictures of the staff will be displayed along with descriptions about who they are, and how long tl1ey have worked at Union College. Elaine Shull, one of the four- teen library staff members and part of the Acquisitions Depart- ]Jlent, mentioned that the Ameri- can Library Association (A.L.A.) designates the third week in April to recognize Library Day. She stated: \It isusually pqblic librar- ies that are recognized, and as of yet~ we have done. nothing as an academic library in terms of par- ticipation.\' Elaine Shull also said that the day was only quasi-offi- cin]. lt was proposed over the intemct an <.I apparently, other aca- demic libraries are becoming in- volved. Some of the other participating libraries include the Citadel Li- brary in Cl1arleston, South Caro- lina, and the University of Colo- rado at Bmdder, Union's library staff mem hers are proud to be given recognition. They feel that it is important to highlight the people who rea)Jy run the show. Elaiiw Shull, working in the Acquisitions Department, is re- !1ponsible for ordering books from anywhere and everywhere to best accommodate the students' needs. Shementionedthat Union has a home-page on the intemet where smdents can suggest book purchases for the library. In or- der to do tl1is. an e-mail must be Last Saturday's Concert a Success Tire Coal Palace Kings put oil an excellent .s/1ow as tl1ey opened for Far Cty in Memorial Cliapel. U11ion stlldents were able to /rear a tl1ird hand, Your Mamma. wl1ose members are Vnion students. Tllis week Scl~affer Library celebrates \Library Assistants' Day\ (PI10to by Lar1rel Ruma/IC) sent to the library with a request. Aside from Elaine, other staff members in various other depart- ments are being posted in the Schaffer Library. Some of them have worked for over twt;nty years and have seen inany changes. 11tey also look forward to new changes, especially the coming of a new library. Among the staff are work study students. According to Shull, periodicals and acquisitions have nine students this semester, which does not include the people who work at the circulation desk. l11e staff at Schaffer Library would like t<J be recognized on April 17 for their devotion to their work, the students, and the li- brary. lltey only request that you take a moment to look at their pic- tures and read about what they are doing to make your studying easier. It is not the hand of a ghost that miraculously places books and magazines on their proper shelves. Instead it is the hands of the Schaffer Library staff who deserve to be commended and better known . $1.8 Million Awarded to Union for Energy Conservation Program by Sari Leivent Staff Writer On March 29, State Senator Hugh T. Farley and Union Col- lege President Roger H. Hull proudly announced that Union College has been awarded $1.769 million for ener1.'Y conservation programs. Union, a five year partner in the EPA Green Lights Energy Con- servation Program, has taken many steps toward reducing en- ergy costs and protecting the en- vironment. These steps toward energy conservation have been quite effective in the reduction of energy consumption at Union. According to the Green Lights Program, the reduction in energy consumption at Union has saved the atmosphere almost 200,000 pounds of carbon dioxide, 600,000 grams of sulfur dioxide, and 22S,OOO grams of nitrous ox- ide. Considering that the Union catnpus is over 200 years old, there are many more essential programs and upgrades which are needed in order to continue our tight for the environment. The $1.769 million award will accel- erate the campuses on going en· ergy conservation programs. The College and University Energy Assistance Program has funded this award in the form of an interest free loan. Union will reimburse the Energy Assistance Program witlt the money saved from expected reduced energy costs. l11e 1995-96 state budget allocates $1 t .J million state wide for the funding of energy conser- V<ltion awards.l11e $11. 3 million has accumulated from fines and fees collected from the petroleum companies for overcharging cus- tQillers in tbe 1970s. Oi.u campus·should be proud to know that we were one of only t I colleges and universities se- lected for this program. We should stand as a model for other academic institutions in our en- thusiastic efforts to help a suffer- ing environment. TI1e coming upgrades at Union include replacing 30 year old cooling systems with new state of the art systems, retrofitting mo- tors for air handling systems with efficient units, retrofitting campus buildings with energy-efficient lighting, and extending energy management controls to mere buildings in order to tailor energy consumption to building use pat- terns. The reasons for the renovation of the Union campus is the pres- ervation of the environment, and is in the best interest for the stu- dents. A more energy efficient campus will result in a decreased cost of everyday living for the stu- dents. A deflation in tuition may be a potential outcome of these energy-conservation programs. ''This loan represents a large step toward our goal of spending less on heating our classrooms and more on educating the women and men who use them,\ President Hull said. Union is concentrating much effort toward the conservation of energy. These efforts will help to preserve the environment and to channel available funds into ar- eas of academic interest.

Campus News Campus Info Reappointment Reviews Reappoinment Reviews have begun for four members of the Department .of Mod'- ern Languages: Professors Bradley Jordan (Russian), Yoshimitsu Khan(Japanese), Amanda Leamon (French), and Louis Martinez{Spanish). Members of the College Community with knowledge of the teaching, scholarship, or service of any of these · faculty members are invited to submit written testimony to either to Prof. Sigrid · Kellenter, Chair, or Prof. Anton Warde, Acting Chair, Modem Languages, as soon as . possible, but hy Monday, May 6, .at the latest. The Mechanical Engineering Department is co11ducting a Reappoinmetn Review of Prof. Ronald B. Bucinell. All members of the Union College community familiar with his teaching, scholarship or college service are enceuraged to·send written com- . ments to Prof. Frank Milillo, Chainnan, Mechanical EBgineering, SH 218. A committee. is planning a reappointment review for Sue Lehnttai1,. Assistant Profes- sor. Statements from students, faculty and staff regarding Prof. Lehnnan teaching, • scholarship or college service may be sent to Prof. Martin Strosberg, director of the Graduate Management Institute. . l11e Department of English wiH be conducting a reappointmeilt review for Prof.· Shour. Any students or faculty wishing to contribute to this review should send a • letter to Prof. Jordan Smith, Chair, Department of English, by April 22. A TI1ird Year Review for Assistant Professor Catherine Womack of the Philosophy Department is currently being conducted by a Committee chaired by Prof. Robert. Baker (Philosophy). Also serving on the comn1iHee are Profs. Davis, Lud~1ig, Patrik, (Philosophy) and Taylor (Math). Anyone who wishes to comment upon Prof. Womack's contribution as teacher, sclwlar or colleague, should contact Prof. Baker • or any other member of the Committee. l11e History Department is conducting a reappointment review for Prof. A.T..Miller. · Any faculty, staff, or students interested in commenting on Prof. Miller's contribu- tions to the college may do so in writing or by interview. Please submit letters or requests for interviews to Andrew Feffer, Mark Walker or Robert Wells. Any such letters or requests should be forthcoming by May I. ·On Thursday, Ayril1s, at 8:00PM in the MU:lttcultural , , . .. :~oom/ c~~~' u,nt~n college i. :.·'·.~< .... ,,\7~: .. ;-,.~ .. ,'., ~·; . .'_·~ .:~ER 101 ~··~.,....;.... · ,· • •\ • .• ~··~ , .{·), ~ , , til·,, ;., ·., ;· ,. • I . · ., A video on the .lives· of gay, lesbian .& .bisexual college students . , . directed, edited & filmed by students here 11t Wtio(t collt't]e, 11hout students t11 our area. rejreshnte11ls to f~llow Sixth Annual Steinmetz Symposium Friday, May 10, 1996 12:40 - 6:20pm Banquet- 6:30 For students in all classes and in all disciplines who have cre·ative, scbola.rly· or research projec.ts to offer Sign-up forms are available from Kathy Hopper Science And Engineering\\ S-100 Deadline for turning in forms: April19, 1996 Tired of junk mail? Concerned about safe sex? Don't just sit there, buy a condom-gram! For just $1 am us~ your friends, support a good cause, and show that you care! Available in College Center on Thurs., April l8 The Con(}ordiedsis • April.l8, 19~16• _Page 2 lJNION COLLEGE CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY INCIDENT SUMMARY TUESi)A Y, APRIL 9, 1996 THROUGH MONDAY, APRIL 15, 1996 DATE/TIME LOCATION INCIDENT TUESDAY, APRIL 9, 1996: 12:27 AM Campus Grounds MISCHIEVOUS BEHAVIOR: Tampering with campus vehicle; attempt to disable the vehicle- discovered by operator. No damage caused. 1:04AM Davidson MISCHIEVOUS BEHAVIOR: Fire extinqttisller discharged in student's roomwhen student left the room unlocked and unattended. 1:44AM 7:57AM 5:35PM Possible damage to electronic equipment. Davidson LlFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Tampering with room smoke detector; Life Safety Notice filed. Raymond South V ANDAUSM: Window pane broken 2nd floor hallway. Smith House Lot MISCHIEVOUS BEHAVIOR: Tampering with student's vehicle; attempt to disable the vehicle discovered by Campus Safety. No damage caused. WEDNESDAY, APRIL 10 1996: 4: 1 0 AM Fox/Davidson Lot SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Students sospected of using marijuana in parked car. Report not con finned!. TIIURSDA Y APRil, 11, 1996: I :12 AM Edwards Hse. area DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Altercation 8:31AM 6:42PM II :02 PM among students. SPD contacted to assist Campus Officers, Three students and one staff member ilijured. Five conduct charges filed. Si>D arrested one student for harassment. Chilq Care area PROPERTY DAMAGE: Windshield on student's car found damaged., _C;Juse of damage . , undetermined. Scha.ffer Lib.area VANDALISM: Small tree uprooted. Fox House VANDALISM/LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: . ' Stnoke detector remo~e(l from IO.wer level . . . ; . ~ . ,. ,.hallway. . . .... , ......... ~:, .. J, I • F:RIDAY,,APRU. p, 1996: · ' .. ~ ' >11: 1:5AM. . • ADP,hi area . .~~.COV.J.l:RJi:P. P~Pr·fiRTY;;,,'J;wo. :women's pocketbooks w:ere found hidden under por¥h· 12:IJAM 7:50PM 7:59PM 11:55 PM · These items had been r~ported,stolen from : , · _vehicles in January. Owners notified. · Davidson HARASSMENT: Prank phone calls. Raythondfl>otter Lot VANDALISM: Roofof student's car damaged. Fraternity House· THEFT: Beer tap and cooler ..stolen. Last seen before Spring break. West Coil. area SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Students observed smoking marijuana. Conduct Charges filed. SATURDAY, APRIL 13, 1996: 12:30 AM Psi Upsilon · VANDALISM: -Window pttnch~d out. Suspect, believed to be a student, fled the;area. .1:30PM 10:13 PM 10:52 PM Webster House PROPERTY DAMAGE: Two students bikes that were stored inside the house were knocked over and damaged, Cause undetermined. Memorial Chapel SAFETY HAZARD: Pew collapsed during concert. Na one injured. Structural Dept. to check pews for stability. Davidson SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Odor ofmarijuana reported. Unable to confinn, SUNDAY~ APRIL 14, 1996: 4:35 AM Raymond Not1h VANDALISM: Glass in first floor fire door . 1:10PM 9:42PM damaged'. Fox/Davidson Lot T~:IEFT: Four hubcaps stolen from students car . Bailey Field SAFETY HAZARD: Concern raised_ regarding possible injury and property dantage from softball games. Balls being hit off the playing field into occttpied areas. . : .· . MONDAY, APRI'L 15, 1996: 9:00 AM Raymond South PROPERTY MISSING; Radiator cover 11:10 AM 2:25PM 3:00PM 11:10 PM missing from 2nd floor bathroom radiator. Another cover was at·so reported'missing last week from a hallway radiator. Davidson North THEFT: Cable television connection stolen from lounge TV. West Lot PROPERTY DAMAGE: Student's car tire damaged. Possibly caused by vandalism. Richmond HARASSMENT: Prank telephone calls. Social Sciences THEFT: Faculty member's wallet stolen from unlocked office.

The.Concordiensis ~ Aprill8, 1996 • Page 3 Campus News Sister Brother: a Pulitzer in the Making? by Aileen Quigley Staff Wr;ter If is not often that the relationship be- tween a brother and sister is dynamic enough to inspire a Sl2 .. page novel. Then again, Leo and Gertrude Stein were no or- dinary brother and sister. Professor Brenda Wineapple chronicles their unique and in- triguing relationship until.its .end in 1914. Why did their interaction· c.ease at this point? \You'll have to read the book,\ re• plies Professor Wineapple with a smile, ' Between the' covers ofthis literary biog~ raphy lies the history and evolution .pfthe Steinls life together. The story chron.icl.es the two youngest of five children in their family. As they grew up, the pair played a significant role in the group of young, as. piring artists and writers in Paris at the tum of the century. At this time, the major cit- ies of Europe were melting pots of litera- ture and art. In this intellectual fonnn, the soon-to-be-famous writers excl1anged ideas and inspirations with each other. l11i s influence can be found in countless works of literature, illcluding that ·Of Gertrude Stein. Authors such as Ernest Hernmingway and F. Scott Fitzgerald can be included in the entourage of artisans whose lives and manuscripts she touched. Hemmingway actually gave her some ofhis manuscripts to look over, and she encouraged him to devote hin1self to writing during a period of doubt. Often overshadowed and '\eclipsed\ by his younger sister, Leo Stein left asignifi.- cant matk on the art world as well. Both Leo and Gertn1de Stein had a strong pas- sion far literature and art. This is most vis- ible in their extensive collection of origi- nal artworks. Professor Wineapple found that, \they saw beauty where most people sawugliness,\ and'thattheirtaste was very unusual. Theresult oftheirunconventional preferences was a museum-quality collec- tion ofpre-Colombian art and mmiy other atypical pieces. TI1is inspired the Kohn sis- ters to buy, whose collection now hangs in the Baltimore Museum of Art. l11ere were mainstream artists presented in the collection as well since Mr. Stein was extremely fond of Renoir; while his sister was partial to Picasso. Henri Matisse, also influenced by the Stein's, represents a significant part of their art. However, their collection was extremely fluid, and ,pai11tings were traded and acquired rapidly. :few, -if any, paper records were kept of these transactions~ making its reconstmc- tion the hardest part ofthe research forth is book, according to Wineapple. Research for this book began in 1989 ~nd encompassed a good portion of the globe. \From Baltimore to Berkley,\ as well as ~ranee and Italy, Professor Wineapple gathered information and in- sights into the lives of this extraordinary duo .. Aside from the Stein papers at Yale, she discovered people who knew Leo in a small village north of Florence, Italy. There were no Stein children to contact since Lee and his wife Nina never had chil- dren. Gertrude was a lesbian and never married. However, the extended family was large since Michael Stein, a brother of Leo and Gertmde, and his wife Sarah had three children. Professor Wineapple had been intrigued by the unique relationship of the Steins. She has always loved writing and has pub- lished previously. Her first book was Genet, though thankfully not herlast. G.P. Putnams is the publisher of Sister Brother, though not for her other books. Professor Wineapple \wanted to be with a gifted editor,\ and Putnams won a Pen Award for being the best editor in his own book, Faith Sale. Each stage of the book publishing process is different, though Wineapple en- joys each one. Her writing has been highly praised by critics in the past. Leo Stein once said, \critics are useful for a variety of pur- poses, but delivering a final judgement is not one of them.\ The book will be avail- able for your judgement this week, and though Professor Wineapple is very ner- vous. her high-caliber writing will speak for itself. Union Students: NCUR-Bound by Bhavani Meduri Contributing Writer The 1Oth annual National Conference Oil Undergraduate Research (NCUR) will be held this year at the University of Nortl1 Carolina at Asheville on April l8-20th. The conference gives undergraduate stu- dents an opportunity to present their pa- pers and also to meet peers from different parts of the country who share similar re- search interests. Union College, who hosted the confer- ence in 1990 and again last year, will be represented by 42 students and two fac- ulty members - Walid TI1abet and Ashraf Union represemted by honored students at internationally recognized research conference Ghaly. Close to 2,000 students and 400 fac- ulty members will participate in the con- ference and a wide variety of academic interest will be presented and discussed by the attendants. Dennis Popeo, a biology m~Uor, will be presenting his senior thesis entitled, \A Game of Tag: using a Flourescent Molecu- lar Tag to Locate the Mushroom Inducing Gene in the Fungus Schizo:phyllum ccmmme.\ He believes that attending NCUR is a good way to compare the cali- ber at which Union is doing research to that of both other small, liberal arts col- leges and larger universities. Jason Jennings, a Junior participant, says: \l11is is a chance to give students across the country, as well as Union CoJJege stu- dents the opportunity to work on their the- ses and other related projects ... generally, a great opportunity.\ nJe following juniors and seniors will be making presentations: Mirriam Amoo. Laura Annstrong,. Amelia Audette, Ryan Bloom, Kerry Cassidy, Alison Dlott, Jamie Dobelie, Ancella Evans, Stacey Fellows, Jeremy Govennan, David Grandwetter. Susan Greenberg, Laura Grund, Jennifer Hacker, Brian Haffner, Jodie Iannacone, Amber James, Jason Jennings, Reinis Kanders, Amy Beth Kessinger, Martha Kirouac, Andrew Leach, Sarna Lee, Mar- tin Logan, William McKenna, Elizabeth McGaughan, Kristen Pappas, Bertha Peralta, Robert Peskin, Kevin Pessolano, Daniel Petruzella, Dennis Popeo, Chris- topher Riley. Rovin Rozario, Eric Salazer. Rachel Schaffer, Adam Schwartz, Manisha Tinani, Linda Seymour and Saira Nairn. NCUR is considered a very prestigious conference, and many students apply in order to secure an acceptance to present their papers. Those who are interested in participating in NCUR nex:t year should speak with both their advisor and Dean Lewis. MOJO PHOTO FOR SUPER Sft I I lcbaRclldy 1041 State ·~treat •-ma

' ' Page 4 • April18, 1996 • The Concordiensis Wednesday Night Chaos: Fighting Outside Fraternity House ---=---..::--:..___. ___ . -· son received a fractured ankle by Stephanie Slobotkin, from the abundance of people News Editor moving out the house at once. He There was tension among was brought to Ellis Hospital, Union students, security and the where he was treated and re- Schenectady police. Punches leased. Another student was were thrown. Words were ex- struck in the face and received ten changed and people were injured. stitches under his right eye. On April 11, at 1:12 am, llmrs- One security officer, attempting day, Union College security re- to mollify the situation and quiet ceived a caU from an unknown the student, was pushed by some- female who stated. that there was one in the crowd. This officer a large fight on the left side of the tripped, strained his lower back Edward's House. At that time all and is currently under medical officers were dispatched. attentio•1. Upon their arrival they ob- Also, this student who refused served around 150 in the sur- to comply with the officers'. ;re- rounding area. They also saw quest was arrested for harassnie11t multiple fights which included and charged by the Schenectady pushing, shoving and screaming. Police. The officers attempted to out an In total, five students were end to the chaos but received no given COil duct charges associated compliance from any student. with the incident. TI1e following In the effort to avoid any inju- day a student came forward and ries, security informed the filed another report leading to Schenectady police of the inci- another conduct clu~rge that they dent and asked for assistance. had been hit in the face. Dean Alford was also contacted Mr. Mantica pointed out that at his home. there is a difference of opinion as When police arrived they tried to whether it was a party or a so• to help cam,pus safety officers in cial gathering that occurred on dispersing the crowd. Even after Thursday night. He stated that the police arrived they were met from the estimates of many with much resistance. After 30 people, it can be concluded that minutes or so, the area was clear there were in fact over one .hun- and people either went back into dred people around the outside of Edward's House or elsewhere. the house. Whether these esti- Apparently, according to Mr. mates lead to a party or a social Mantica, who drew information gathering is still up for debate. from the police report, mentioned Upon questioning Dean Alford, that some ofthe'situation seemed and Dean Schurick they were not to stem from the fact that sh1dents at liberty to comment. Negotia- attempted to \crash a party and lions arc underway and those in- were refused to enter.\' He also volved hope to see the:; lcgaj!j,ties said that as a result of this rcftisal, of the incident resolved so tfi'at it a fight broke out. Consequently, the fighting left some students injured. On~ P£_1'::_. can come to a close as soon as possible. Campus News Richard Howard Visits Union by Jody Mousseau Staff Writer Poet, critic, and translator Ri- chard Howard spoke at Ui1ion on Monday, April 15. Howard's visit consisted of a presentation at 4pm and a poetry reading in the Nott Memorial at 8pm, fol- lowed by a reception iu the Milano Lounge. Howard, a re- spected member of the literary community, attended Columbia University and the Sorbonne, and has taught at several institu- tions, including Johns Hopkins, Yale, Princeton, and several oth- ers. Presently, Howard is the University Professor of English at the University ofHouston and Poet Laureate ef New York State. He has published several books ofpoetry and criticism, as weiJ as numerous translations of French works. Ullfitled Su~ject,v, his third book of poems; was awarded a Pulitzer Prize in 1970. Howard's presentation con- sisted of a collaboration of the works of many different poets, mostly unkilown poets, which re- flected post-feminist poetry in America. Howard's ch0ice of tl1e post-feminist topic was dtJe to his insight into the value of contemporary woltlen's poetry. He felt that the voice of women was an important subject in po- etry and wanted to make it atopic of discussion during the presen ... tation at Union. TI1e poetry reading in the Nott Memorial consisted of an illtto- dtlction by Professor Jordan Smith, a former student of Howard's and a member of Union's English departme!lt, a reading of several po- e,ms from his most re- cent book Uke .Mm;l Revela- tionsJ. and a reading of several new poems that have been written by Howard, which were accompa- nied by a slide pre- sentation. T h i s method of presetHa- tion was unique and assisted in depicting the implica- tions and stories which are pre- sented in many of his. poems. \I've always wanted to be a reader more than a writer,\ Howard commented in a brief in- terview, stating that he often uses poetry as a means of 'reading' other people. Much of the con- tent ofbis poetry, which is unique in both text and style, focuses on the drama that is observed from having something spoken from one point of view, as opposed to another. In much of Howard's poetry, the nature of people and concerns is reflected threugh in- dividual voices and use of the dramatic poem. Both tbe pre- sent a- tion and the po- e t r y reading were a success. Many mem• bers of t h e Union commu- nity at- tended t h e events. Union is privileged to have hosted Howard for a day, and the dramatic poetry reading will not be soon forgotten by those who attended. We look for- ward to hosting other respected literary figures, and perhaps Howard again, to the Union cam- pus. We didrit think we could make it any easier to surf the Net. 'lbday, more students are using Macintosh\ computers to share ideas on the Internet than any other computer. No small wonde~ either. Because with a Macintosh there are no complicated commands needed to get up and surfing on the Net. So in a matter of minutes you can be on-line accessing the exciting new universe of the Internet. (Not to mention prospective employers.) And right now, buying a Mat is as easy as using one. For a limited time, we're offer- ing special campus savings on selected Macintosh computers and Apple• printers. So visit us today; and look into the power of Macintosh. The power to be your best~ But we just did. For nwre mformatlrm visit us on the Internet at bttp.!lhed.info.appku:om/

\\'orld ~C\\S . · · itlrc <£ouroroicttsis, ;:\prll 18-; \1996 Page 5 . . . . . World News AMERICAN POLICY TOWARDS CUBA: TIME FOR A CHANGE by Anand Rao World News Editor There is 110 reasonable way by whiclrthe govemrnellt-ofthe United States can justify the continuation of its bitter and irrational policy towards Cuba. UnHI 1994:, our country had maintained a simihuly antago- nistic policy towards Vietnam. In recognizing the pote!'Jtial for a ltJcrati.ve relationship with the growi11g Vietnamese economy, however, President Clinton fi- nally brought an end to that policy. TheleadersofVietnam and the United States are now in the process of nonnalizing their relations. If these two countries succeed in developing a strong and friendly relation- ship, tliey may finally overcome the horrifying legacy of the Vietnam War. Although one can never fully erase the legacy of more t11an fifty thousand dead Americans and almost five million dead Vietnamese, a closer relationship can help heal the pai11. Common sense dictates ~hat a similar train of thought ought to apply to U.S.-Cuban rela- tions. Undoubtedly, the two countries have had a bad rela- tionship ever since revolution- ariec; led by Fidel Castro over ... threw Cuba~s comtpt dictator- ship in the late 1950s. Every American President since Dwight Eisenhower, and every Director of the Central Intelli- gence Agency (CIA) since Allen Dulles. has flirted with the thought of either murder- ing Castro or undennining his regime by v,arious means. America's government has al- ways been heavily influenced by the fanatically anticommu- nist elements of big business. When American business inter- ests in Latin America felt threatened by the presence of Fidel Castro in Cuba, the United States government lis- tened, Because Fidel Castro posed a perceived threat to Pax Americana, even John F. Kennedy, the founder of the Peace Corps, was driven to vio- lating Cuba's national sover- eignty with the infamous Bay of Pigs Invasion in 1961. American policy towards Cuba in the Castro Era has been statewide elections. driven by a buming resentment ef the fact that a regime which rejects American hegemony can rule an island lying ninety miles off the coast of Florida. Latin America is not an Ameri- can playground, and the Car- ibbean Sea is not an American lake. Why c~11't we tolerate al- ternative ft:~nns of n1le among our neighbors? Instead of al- lowing Cuba to develop its po- tential under a regime which promised to be more fair and .equitable in its rule, the United States proceeded to economi- c ally a n d diplo- mati- c a 11 y isolate F i d c I Castro. T h e Cuhan axn::my ~md the Ct1ban people have unnec- essarily s u f- feredat t h e hands of an American economic embargo which has lasted for more than thi11y years. Since the 1960s, American policy towards Cuba has been hardened even further by the peculiarities of presidential po1itics. Fo11owing the Cuban Revolution, many anticommu- nist natives fled Cuba for south- ern Florida. Over the years, these Cuban 11atives in Florida became American citizens, and their children were hom in the United States. thus making them American citizens. Cu- ban-Americans have developed into a powerful voting bloc in Florida, which also happens to be one of the most populous states in the couiJtry. In state- wide elections, Cuban-Ameri- cans fonn part of what politi- cal scientists call the \swing vote\ in Florida.· As a voting bloc, Cuban-Americans have considerable leverage in deter- mining the outcome of Florida's This is where the influence of the Cuban-American com- lntinHy becomes truly enor- mous. American presidential elections arc determined hy electoral votes rather than JlOpular votes. Electoral votes are allocated among the slates according to population. Thus, the most populous slates, such as Ca.lifornia. Florida, and Texas, possess the most elec- toral votes. In each state, these e1ectmal votes are rewarded on a winner-takes-all basis. In other words, if the Democratic nominee for president captt1res 50.1 percent of the popular vote in Califnmia, while the Repub- lican nominee gets the remain- ing 49.9 percent. all of Califomia's electoral votes go to the Democratic candidate. TI1e Republican nominee gets nothing for his efforts. Thus, it is very important for a presi- dential candidate to capture a bare plurality of the popular vole in the most heavily popu- lated states of the country. The goal of every presiden- tial candidate is to capture at least 270 of the 538 electoral votes allocated among the fifty states. In Florida, the Cuban- American voting bloc can use its leverage to determine which presidential candidate will have their state's considerable num- ber of electoral votes. Because the Cuban-American commu- nity in Florida is characterized by a hatred of Fidel Castro which even exceeds that of Amelica's business community, one can see why no American President. not even a humani- tarian like Jimmy Carter, has been willing to fundamentally alter American policy towards Cuba. For either a candidate or an incumbent chief execu- tive, the risk of softening one's stance towards Cuba is simply too high. Getting elected is the primary goal of every Ameri- can politician, and it is hard to be elected President of the United States without possess- ing the electoral votes from Florida. Even Bill Clinton knows that. Not only is American policy towards Cuba held hostage by a paranoid busii1ess community motivated by !,treed. hut it is also held hostage by a politically powerful Floridian community of Cuban-Americans who are unsurpassed in their opposition to Fidel Castro. Call me a cynic, hut I have to question the Cuban-American community's hatred of Fidel Castro. ·Is Castro really a butcher. a Stalinist dictator who teJTorizes his people with an iron fist? This is what the Cuban-Ameri- cans ofMimni want you to be- lieve, but is it really true? In last week's Conc:ordiensis, a chart illustrating the rate of in- fant mortality in selected coun- tries for the year 1995 showed that the Cuban rate was as low as the American rate. Let's not forget that the politicians in Washington often proclaim that our country has the best health \America ... ju.'it a nation o.ftwo l1undred million u~rted-car .fialeJmen witlt all tile ntoney we need to buy gu'!'·., and no qualms about killing anybody e/Je i11 tile world wlro ·trie.'i to make U.'i unctJmfortable.\ -HunterS. Thompson Source: 21st Century Dictionary of Quotations care system in the world. llms, as far as treating infants is con- cemed, the Cuban health care system must be very good. It wasn't that way before Fidel Castro took power. It seems that the Cuban- American community's desire to see Fidel Castro removed from power is partially moti- vated by greed, just like the American business community. If Castro is forcibly removed from power, a chaotic stmggle will ensue in Cuba, pennitting Cuban-American exiles to re- turn to their mother country. With Castro out of the way, these Cuban-Americans would have the opportunity to domi- nate the country by filling the power vacuum. Cuba would return to its prerevolutionary status as a banana republic. It is not in the interest of the United States to see Cuba be- come a truly repressive state characterized by social stratifi- cation and a large maldistribution of wealth. We should allow Cuba to peacefully evolve, and the United States should facilitate that evolution by recob\llizing the legitimacy of Fidel Castro. Courage rarely characterizes t11e actions of American politi- cians these days. If President Clinton, before this November's eJection, were to take the radi- cal step of renouncing America's idiotic policy to- wards Cuba, it would be an act of tme political courage. Ignor- ing the ravings and rantings of the Cuban-American commu- nity is a risk that finally ought to be taken. If President Clinton takes such a step and invites Fidel Castro to the White House. he ought to apologize to the Cuban states- IRan on behalf of all the Ameri- can intelligence officers and politicians who tried to have him assassinated in the past. Even though President Clinton 1night be voted out of office by acting upon these proposals, there is no question that he would be doing the right thing by abandoning the Cold War attitude towards our island neighbor. The Cuban people deserve to be liberated from the 1nadness of our foreign policy. · a9ffi:!t1ttunu;·li$hand WObtf' - export donars, 1994 .,,,,,,,,,:~qtfd~11.filllidiP'··,,

' ' .\\'orld ~cws -' . [IJl· lCnnwrhil'llsis, April IS~ 1996 Page 6 World News Great Britain: From World Dominance to Ma·d Cow Disease by Anand Rao World News Editor One cannot help but laugh at what has happened to the pres .. tige of the .United Kingdom since 1945. When World War II came to an end, a battered but victorious Great Britain still maintained some fonn of con- trol over the Indian subconti- nent, Burma, the Malay Penin- sula, the territory surrounding the Persian Gulf, Egypt, Pales- tine, a large chunk of East Af- rica, Nigeria, and many islands in the Caribbean Sea. Even more crucial to Britain's power was its control over many stra- tegic points of transit, includ- ing Gibraltar, Singapore, the Suez Canal, and the Strait of Honnuz. ll1is is only part of what comprised the British Empire when our parents were children. In the years foiJowing the end of the Second World War, Brit- ain gradually lost her colonial possessions, but her influence throughout the world was un- avoidable. English became the international language of busi- ness and commerce. It was also * Israel launched an attack on HezbolJah strongholds in southern Lebanon. l11e Israeli initiative fol1owed repeated at- tacks on northern Israel by Shiite Muslim guerrillas based in Lebanon. Hezbollah is a militant Shiite Muslim group backed by Iran, and for many years it has enjoyed consider- able freedom of action in war- torn Lebanon.· In trying to check the influence of Hezbollah, Israel attacked the Lebanese capital of Beimt for tl1e first time since 1982. At least a half-dozen Lebanese ci- vilians were reportedly killed. \' The West African state of hatd to ignore the dominant status of the English language in the United States, a countcy that achieved unprecedented supremacy in world affairs be- tween 1945 and 1970. Soccer, a British creation, became the most popular spectator sport on Earth. Ba!)eball, derived from the disfavored British sport cricket, became the national pastime ofthe American super- power. Baseball then pro- ceeded to become a dominant sport in Japan, home to the world's second lar.gest economy. How the times have changed! l11e United States, proudly re- ferred to as Britain's daughter, by no Jess a person than Mar- garet TI1atcher, has watched its supremacy in world affairs di- minished by overwhelming do- mestic problems, the ascen- dancy of the East Asian eco- nomic powerhouse, and the for- mation of the world's largest common market .in Western Europe. For better or for worse, the dominant status of the En- glish language in the United States is slowly being eroded by the widespread use of Spanish Liberia was engulfed by anar- chy as fighting raged on in the capital city of Monrovia among rival militia groups. Estab- lished as an independent repub- lic by freed American slaves in 184 7, Liberia has been torn apart by. a civil war that l1as killed roughly 150,000 people since I 989. • Elections for the National . Assembly were held in South Korea, and preliminary results showed thctt no party emerged with clear majority rule. l11e New Korea Party, of which cur- rent President Kim Young Sam is a member, appeared to have about 140 of the 299 seats in the National Assembly. among Latin American immi- grants. Baseball, the American descendant of cricket, has been replaced by football and basket- ball as the dominant spectator sport in our country. British influence seemsto have receded so badly that some obnoxious Americans rmitinely .call the United Kingdom our nation's fifty-first state. Since the days ofthe Anglo-American \special relationship\ in which London served as Washingtotl 'sjunior partner in world domination, have the fortunes .of Great Brit- ain declined that badly? Un- fortunately for Anglophiles, it seems they have. Over the past month, instead of concerning itself with the subjugation of\uncivilizcd sav- ages'' in some distaut, danger- ous, and exotic land, the Brit- ish government has been pre- occupied with the task of res- ctting the United Kingdom's cattle industry. An ailment known as \mad cow\ disease has afflicted many cattle herds from Edinburgh to Portsmouth. Because it is possible that mad cow disease could serve as a transmitter of a rare brain dis• * At an airport in Dusseldorf, Germany, at least 16 .people were killed as waves of smoke from a mysterious fire carried lethal fumes into elevators, ventilation ducts, and lounges. Although the smoke proved to be the deadliest factor, some people were also burned to death, according to police spokesnian Friedheim Werner . l11e nationality of the dead was not immediately known. * In a 63-page report, Pentagon officials stated that the spread of nuclear, chemical, and bio- logical weapons represents a threat nearly as big as the spec- ter of global conflict between Percentage of Population Living in Urbanized Areas: Selected Countries, 1995 epa I igeria ndia hina ortugal rgentina srael elgium • lOo/o .. 16 -26 -28 34 Source: 1996 World Almanac and Book of Facts .. ' ease to humans, many fear that it may be unsafe to cons\tme, beef taken from cattle herds iq Britain. 11tis is the reason wlty the European U11ion imposed a total ban on all exports of Brit- ish beeflast month. In the past, the British Empire arbitrarily imposed limits and restraints on the economic development of its impoverished colonies. Today, the abrricultural sector of the Britisi1 economy is being ar- bitrarily boxed in by the Euro- pean Unio11. Isn't it funny how the tables tttrn over a period of time? The rulers of Britain have never been .shy about ex- pressing their contempt for the institutions and peculiarities of the European c<:mtinent. so the current situation is especially ironic. AnnuaUy, the beef industry is worth billions of dollars to the British economy. It is of the greatest importance that Brit- ain succeed in having the Eu.· ropean Union~s export ban lifted as quickly as possible. The United Kingdom's crisis surroundii1g mad cow disease underscores t;wc:> essential facts: its decline as a world power, the United States and the So- viet Union during the Cold W~:tr. * In Dunblane, Scotland, work- ers began to tear down the pri- mary school gym where gun- man '1110mas Hamilton mur- dered 16 children and their teacher before killing himself on March 13. l11e decision to demolish the gym and luive a garden planted in its place wa!) supported by the local commu- nity. * European Union veterinary experts turned down Great Britain's request to relax an export ban on British beef that was imposed on March 27. Cattle herds in Britain have been affected by mad cow dis- ease, a bnJin-wasting .ailment that contains the· possibility of transmitting a similar sickness to ·lnn1um beings. ~efore they consider ·modifyit1g the export ban, E\tropean Union officials want Britab1 to present a de .. tailed plan to contain mad cow disease. and its growing dependence on an increasingly integrated Eu .. rop_e. Had mad cow disease bubbled to the surface of the British Isles in the first half of this century, the crisis would ha:v.e been offset by London's control over one-ql]artet of hu- manity. In 1996, however, hu- manity has left the British Em• pire behind. Winston Churchill is dead, revisionist 'historians . have condemned British impe- rialism for its rapacious and setf.:.serving nature, and the British Commonwealth is largely a meaningless forinal- ity. ·To the bitter disappoint- ment ofcountless Anglophiles, the United Kingdom has be- come known for its diseased cows as well as its comically dysfunctional royalfamily. Per- haps our obnoxioqs f~llow Ameri·can citizens are right; instead of considering state- hood for Puerto Rico, we ought to consider statehood for the future vegetarians of the United Kingdom. Rudyard Kipling would call it the \American man's burden.\ tutional system, or territorial inte1,rrity. lfpassed, this legis- lation could hurt Slovakia's chances for quick membership in the European Union. * The government of Saudi Arabia banned all Nigerians from entering the country to make the annual pilgrimage to the Islamic world's two holiest shrines. The ban was imposed in response to the fact that more than 70,000 West Africans have been infected by a meningitis epidemic since January, and more than 9,000 of these people have died. As the most populous state in all of Africa, Nigeria has been hit the worst, with 40,000 cases and more thati half of the deaths. • In Singapore, a judge ordered American journalist Christo- pher Lingle to pay former Prime Minister Lee Kuarl Yew $71,000 in libel damages. In 1994, Lingle published a report in the International H~ratd Tri- bune which accuse~ Mr. Lee;of · using Singapore's' courts as a * In the fonnerly Communist~ · tool of repression. Lingle fled dominated Slovakia, President to the U.S. after Singaporean Michael Kovic vetoed a bill officials began investigating that critics say would limit free him. It is not . clear how speech and public assemblies. Singapore can enforce this rut- Tile legislation, which was ap- ing. The International Herald proved by the Slovakian I>arlia- Tribune has already paid Mr. ment two weeks earlier. would Lee, who served as Singapore's ban rallies deemed to subveii Prime Minister from 1959 to the country's defenses, cousti- 1990, $214,000 in damages.

. . \ \ . ' ~ . ' . \Vorld N~ws , · · . . : . lrlp~ ([unwrninrzis , April 18, 199() ·Page (l '' ' • ' ' ' I • ~' ~ World News Great Britain: From World Dominance to Mad Cow Disease by Anand Rao World News Editor One cannot help but laugh at what has happened to the pres- tige of the .United Kingdom since 1945. W11en World War II came to an end, a battered but victorious Great Britain stiH maintained some fon:n of con- trol over the Indian sHbconti- nent, Bunna, the Malay Penin- sula, the territory surrounding the Persian Gulf, Egypt, Pales- tine, a large chunk of East Af- rica, Nigeria, and many islands in the Caribbean Sea. Even more crucial to Britain's power was its control over many stra- tegic points of transit, includ- ing Gibraltar, Singapore, the Suez Canal, and the Strait of Honnuz. 1l1is is only part of what comprised the British Empire when our parents were children. In the years following the end of the Second World War, Brit- ain gradually lost her colonial possessions, but her influence throughout the world was un- avoidable. English became the international language of busi- ness and commerce. It was also * Israel launched an attack on Hezbollah strongholds in southem Lebanon. llte Israeli initiative followed repeated at- tacks on northern Israel by Shiite Muslim guerrillas based in Lebanon. Hezbollah is a militant Shiite Muslim group backed by Iran, and for many years it has enjoyed consider- able freedom of action in war- torn Lebanon. · In trying to check the influence of Hezbollah, Israel attacked the Lebanese capital of Beimt for the first time since 1982. At least a h:tlf-dozen Lebanese ci~ vilians were reportedly kiUed. * The West African state of hard to ignore the dominant status of the English language in the United States, a country that achieved unprecedented supremacy in world affairs be~ tween 1945 and 1970. Soccer, a British creation, became the most popular spectator sport on Earth. Baseball, derived from the disfavored British &port cri,cket, became the national pastime of the American super- power. Baseba11 then pro- ceeded to become a dominant sport in Japan, home to the world's second lar .. gest economy. How the times have changed! TI1e United States, proudly re- ferred to as Britain's daughter, by no Jess a person than Mar- ga~et TI1atcher, has watched its supremacy in world affairs di- minished by overwhelming do- mestic problems, the ascen- dancy of the East Asian eco- nomic powerhouse, and the for- mation of the world's largest common market in Western Europe. For better or for worse, the dominant status of the En~ glish language in the United States is slowly being eroded by the widespread use of Spanish Liheria was engulfed by anar- chy as fighting raged on in the capital city of Monrovia among rival militia groups. Estab~ lished as an independent repub- lic by freed American slaves in 1847, Liberia has been torn apart by· a civil war that has killed roughly 150,000 people si nee 1989. * Elections for the National Assembly were held in South Korea, and preliminary results showed that no party emerged with clear majority rule. llte New Korea Party, ofwhich cur- rent President Kim Young Sam is a member, appeared to have about 140 of the 299 seats in the National Assembly. among Latin American itmni- grants. Baseball, the An1erican descendant 0f cricket, has been replaced by footbaH and basket- ball as the dominant spectator sport in our country. British influence seems to have receded so badly that some obnoxious Americans routinely call the United Kingdom our nation's fifty~first state. Since the days of the Anglo-American \special relationship\ in which London served as Washington's junior partner in world domination, have the fortunes of Great Brit- ain declined that badly? Un- fortunately for Anglophiles, it seems they have. Over the ~ast month, instead of concerning itself with the subjugation of\unciviJ.izcd sav- ages\ in some distant, danger- ous, and exotic land, the Brit- ish govemment has been pre- occupied with the task of res- cuing the UnHed Kingdom's cattle industry. An ailment known as \rnad cow\ disease has afflicted many cattle herds from Edinburgh to Portsmouth. Because it is possible that mad cow disease could serve as a transmitter of a rare brain dis- * At an airport in Dusseldorf, Germany, at least 16 people were killed as waves of smoke from a mysterious fire carried lethal fumes into elevators, ventilation ducts, and lounges. Although the smoke proved to be the deadliest factor, some people were also burned to death, according to police spokes1nan Friedheim Wemer. ll1e nationality of the dead was not immediately known. • In a 63~page report, Pentagon officials stated that the spread of nuclear, chemical, and bio- logical weapons represents a threat nearly as big as the spec- ter of global conflict between Percentage of Population Living in Urbanized Areas: Selected Countries, 1995 epal . . 1ger1a ndia hina ortugal SA rgentina srael elgium • 10o/o .. 16 -26 -28 34 ,' •• ' ·: ' :' \ : • ' • ,I• • .. .' • 57 75 ' • ~ ' ' ·' • ' : • • ' : : • •' • I ' ' ' ' • • ·, ''• 87 ~ ··.\ ~. ,. ·: ' :. . . . . . . ,. . . ' ' .' . .. : Source: 1?96 World Almanac and Book of Facts 90 97 ease to humans, many fear that it may be unsafe to consume beef taken from cattle het:ds in Britain. 11tis is tlte reason why the European UnioH imposed a total ban on all exports ofBrit- ish beeflast month. In the past, the British Empi:re arbitrarily imposed limits and restraints on the economic development of its impoverished colonies. Today, th~agricultural sector of the British economy is being ar- bitrarily boxed in by the Euro- pean Union. lsn 't it funny how the tables tum over a period of time? The rulers of Britain have never been shy about ex- pressing their contempt for the institutions and peculiarities of the European continent, so the current situation is cspeciaHy ironic. Annually, the beef industry is worth billions of dollars to the British economy. It is of the greatest importance that Brit- ain succeed in having the Eu- ropean Union's export ban lifted as quickly as possible. The United Kingdom's crisis surrounding mad cow disease underscores two essential facts: its decline as a world power, the United States and the So- viet Union during the Cold War. * In Dunblane, Scotland, work- ers began to tear down the pri- mary school gym where gun- man l110mas Hamilton mur- dered 16 children and their teacher before killing himself on March 13. l11e decision to demolish the gym and have a garden planted in its place was supported by the local commu- nity. * European Union veterinary experts turned down Great Britain's request to relax an export ban on British beef that was imposed on March 27. Cattle herds in Britain have been affected by mad cow dis- ease, a brain-wasting ailment that contains the possibility of transmitting a similar sickness to huinan beings. Before they consider modifying ·the export ban, European Union officials want Britain to present a de- tailed plan to contain mad cow disease. • In the fonnerly Communist- dominated Slovakia, President Michael Kovic vetoed a bill that critics say would limit free speech and public assemblies. 1l1e legislation. which was ap- proved by the Slovakian Parlia- ment two weeks earlier. would ban rallies deemed to subvet1 the country's defenses, consti- and its growing dependence on an increasingly integrated Eu- rope. Had mad cow disease bubbled to the surface of the British Isles in the first half of this century, the crisis would have been offset by London's control over one-quarter of hu- manity. In 1996, however, hu- manity has left the British Em- pire behind. Winston Churchill is dead, revisionist historians have condemned British impe- rialism for its rapacious and self-serving nature, and the British Commonwealth is largely a meaningless formal- ity. To the bitter disappoint- ment of countless Anglophiles, the United Kingdom has be- come known for its diseased cows as well as its comically dysfunctional royal family. Per- haps our obnoxiol!s fellow American citizens are right; instead of considering state- hood for Puerto Rico, we ought to consider statehood for the future vegetarians of the United Kingdom. Rudyard Kipling would call it the \American man's burden.\ tutional system, or territorial integrity. If passed, this legis- lation could hurt Slovakia's chances for quick membership in the European Union. * The government of Saudi Arabia banned all Nigerians from entering the country to make the annual pilgrimage to the Islamic world's two holiest shrines. The ban was imposed in response to the fact that more than 70,000 West Africans have been infected by a meningitis epidemic since January, and more than 9,000 of these people have died. As the most populous state in all of Africa, Nigeria has been hit the worst, with 40,000 cases and more than half of the deaths. • In Singapore, a judge ordered American journalist Christo- pher Lingle to pay former Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew $71,000 in libel damages. In 1994, Lingle published a report in the International Herald Tri- bune which accused Mr. Lee of · using Singapore's courts as a tool of repression. Lingle fled to the U.S. after Singaporean officials began investigating him. It is not clear how Singapore can enforce this rul- ing. The International Herald Tribune has already paid Mr. Lee, who served as Singapore's Prime Minister from 1959 to 1990. $2 I 4,000 in damages. i l I .( ~ r I 1 ,.

Busin'ess , . · · ·.. U:lp' u:~utrnrnh'usis April 18, 1996 Page. 7 ••• 0 r ~:. ---- --~-- ~- ~ ...... Business Akin Sawyerr Business Editor In our 'fast growing world, corporations· are constantly look- ing for new ways to improve and becollle more competitive. l11e banking industry seems to have finally cau,ght on to the trend of merging. Six oftheworld~s larg- est banks have just signed deals cutting themselves into three powerful entities. ln Japan, Bank of Tokyo and Mitsubishi Bank united to fonn the worlds largest bank. The new bank will now be known as the BankofTokyo-Mitsubishi and its assets are a whopping .$ 709 bil- lion. In New York, Chase.:Man- hattan and Chemical bank fol- lowed suit and created America's biggest ever banking union. Wells Fargo also successfully ac- Merger Here, Merger There quired first interstate bank after it agreed to an $11 billion buy out. · These deals are just a few in a series of big banking m~rgers around the world. These mergers are being driven by ambition and in some cases fear. Banks are find- ing it harder to stay alive in a world oversaturated with banks. Many countries are facing theprobleln ef too many banks chasing too, few borrowers. Most banks are merging just to stay alive in a banking industry that is now facing competition not only from within the banking it1• dustry, but from the outside. 1l1e new Chase-Manhattan bank plans to cul its annual costs by $ .1. 7 bil- lion within the next three years, as a result of its merger with cllemi- cal bank. l11e two banks, who are experts in consumer banking and global custody; believe they would be able tomeet the huge fixed costs associated with their specialties as a rest~lt of their union. Bank of Tokyo and Mitsubishi bank merged so that they could combine their best qualities together. Bank of To- kyo has a weak hold on the Japanese market but it is strong overseas. It makes two thirds of it~. profits from the intema- li0nal market. Mitsubishi bank is just the opposite. Seventy percent of its profits come from the Japanese market. Tite hank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi now has a strong foothold at hom~ and abroad. European banks have much fewer mergers compared to /\mcrican and Japanese banks. Most of the potential European mergers have been hampered by internal politics. Europ~an banks have not had a problem remaining competit-ive because they have combined several ac- tivities under one roof. Euro- pean banks pro vi de services rang- ing from loans to insurance. Govemment regulations on American banks do not allow banks to own subsidiaries that are engaged in non-banking activi- ties. The government felt that banks would hurt other industries if they allowed banks to compete with them. The governments regulatory policy did not take into account the fact that companies outside the banking industry rep- licate banking services. l11e gov- emments policy therefore allows Insmance companies to compete wit-h banks but banks cannot compete in the Insurance market. American banks are inhibited by the law from divcrsif1cation. Diversification in the banking in- dustry will reduce the risks of bank failure due to unforeseen problems. The failure of the Btit- ish Barrings bank just showed that not even the oldest bank in England was invulnerable to fail- ure. Mergers will also enable banks to reap economies of scale in such areas as mortgages and credit cards. The super-banks that are arising will make it harder for them to be supervised and regulated. The importance of greater superVision cannot be overemphasized. Banks with their hands in too many activi- ties such as the Daiwa bank learned the hard way. Keeping track of banking ac- tivities will be even harder for regulators who are used to con- centrating solely on the banking industry. The new financial con- glomerates that are springing up around the world will create a problem for regulators because they will have to worry about problems a conglomerate may have in its insurance or securi- ties operations, spilling over to its banking side and vice versa. UNION LA Economics or Busi- ness Major? . OR $57 OR $20. MAIL; (OR DSPO$fT IN OURS (JGEST!ON 90X} THIS A.D TO UNION LAU~D FOR A FREE: WASH INCLUDE YOIJR NAME ND AfJQfl(i:!SS: NAME=--------------+---~~------ ADDRESS: ..... ---~......--+---------- AIM 9 Great Re!lSons Why You Should Choose Air Force: • High-tech training •Education • Experience • Excellent salacy • Management opportunities • Medical and dental coverage • Advancement • WorldWide ttavel • Tax•ftee allowances For more Information caut.soo;. 423-USAF or contact your local Air Fotce recruiter. Graduating??? Unsure of what you'll be doing after gradutation? Do you have office experience, some typing, computer literate and service orientation demanded by the heathcare field? Training oppurtunities are available for self- motivated students looking for an entry into healthcare. Call: Med-Scribe, Inc. (71 6)-262- 3694, or email to medscrib@vivanetcom. Resumes to: Mcd•Scribc, Inc., 2 J 5 Alexander St, Rochester, NY 14607. A •enc ,no fees The Economics Department is inviting studer1ts .to a l . for membership in micron Delta Epsilon the national Economics honor society. In order to qualify for membership in ODE, you must have a 3.0 cumulative grade point average or better,and must also have an average of at least 3.0 in economics courses. You must be a junior or a senior. You must have taken Economics 12, 20, 31, and 42, but you do not have to be an economics major; non-majors are welcome to apply if they .--,;,__.......__~~~~---..,.......,._-..__....., meet the above criteria. J 1.25/hr. or commission. Advertising sales. Sales experience helpful but not necessary. Training provided. Work Cldse to Union. Car recomended. Call Steve Gorman at (800) 865-9200 for details & . application. M r Ifyou wish to join ODE, send a copy ofyour u11official transcript to Prof. Stephen Schmidt (not Prof. Shelton Schmidt!) in the Economics depart- ment It will be reviewed to determine whether you meet the admissions criteria. If you do meet them, you will be given an application form. There will be a ceremony in spring for newly accepted members. Please reply by April 22. Write for · ai.attcnrbtt. Contac The Editors @ 388- 6155 or e-mail tip~ arnncnrb-iensis at Concordy@ gar .union.edu World famous PSYCHIC to stars and celebrities--35 years experi- ence--can! help you to obtain love, health, wealth and luck. Tele- phone David Gaurdino ANY- TIME at 423-558-1197 or 214- 340-9844; Fax 214-341-0606 I SENIORS I If you are interested in speaking at the Baccalaureate or Commence- .ment, submit a l-4 page draft (approx. 5 min.) to Judy Ludwig, Secre- tary to the Dean of the Faculty and a member of the Commencement Committee. by Friday, April 21. The topic is yours to choose. Please include your ID number, name, box. number and phone number on your draft. If you are interested in singing at the Baccalaureate or Com- mencement, please submit your name to Judy Ludwig by Friday, April 21. If you would like more infonnation about this, contact Judy Ludwig at 6010 or at the Dean of the Faculty's Office on the second floor of the Administration Building. Auditions for speakers and singers will be held by the student ll!embers of the C~n:tme'!cernent Committee in late April or early May. S1gn up for an audtt1on ttme when you submit your draft or name to Mrs Ludwig's office. 1:

i !. Akin Sawyerr Business Editor In our fast growing world, corporations· are constantly look- ing for new ways to improve and become more competitive. l11e banking industry seems to have finally caught on to the trend of merging. Six of the world's larg- est banks have just signed deals cutting themselves into three powerful entities. In Japan, Bank of Tokyo and Mitsubishi Bank united to form the worlds largest bank The new bank will now be known as the Bank ofTokyo-Mitsubishi and its assets are a whopping$ 700 bil- lion. In New York, Chase-Man- hattan and Chemical bank fol- lowed suit and created America's biggest ever banking union. Wells Fargo also successfully ac- Business Merger Here, Merger There quired first interstate bank after it agreed to an $11 biUioH buy out. l11ese deals are just a few in a series of big banking mergers around the world. TI1ese mergers are being driven by ambition and in some cases fear. Banks ane find- ing it harder to stay alive in a world oversaturated with banks. Many cmmtries are facing the problem of too many banks chasing too few borrowers. Most banks are merging just to stay alive in a banking ii1dustry that is now facing competition not only from withiH the banking in- dushy, but from the outside. 1l1e new Chase-Manhattan bank plans to cut its annual costs by$ 1.7 bil- lion within the next three years, as a result of its merger with chemi- cal bank. The two banks, who are experts in consumer banking and global custody, believe theywmald be able to meet the huge fixed costs associated with their specialties as a result of their union. Bank of Tokyo and Mitsubishi bank merged so that they could combine their best qualities together. Dank of To- kyo has a weak hold ou the Japar~ese ~:narket but it is strong overseas. It makes two thirds of its. profits from llw intema- tional market. Mitsubishi bank is just the opposite. Seventy percent of its profits come from the Japanese market. l11e bank ofTokyo-Mitsubishi now has a strong foothold at home and abroad. European banks have much fewer mergers compared to /1mericaa and Japanese hanks. Most of the potential European mergers have been hampered by internal politics. European banks have not had a problem remaining competitive because they have combined several ac- tivities under one roof. Euro- pean bm~ks provide services rang- ing from loans to insurance. Govemment regulations on American banks do not allow banks to OWll subsidiaries that are engaged in JWn-baHking activi- ties. The govemment felt that ha11ks would hurt other industries if they allowed banks to compete with them. The governments regulatory policy did not take into account the fact that companies outside the banking industry rep- licate banking services. TI1e gov- emments policy therefore allows Insurance companies to compete with hanks hut banks cannot compete in the Insurance market. American banks are inhibited by the law from diversification. Diversification in the banking in- dustry wi II reduce the risks of bank failure due to unforeseen problems. The failure of the Btit- ish Barrings bank just showed that not even the oldest bank in E1~gland was invulnerable to fail- ure. Mergers will also enable banks to reap economies of scale in such areas as mortgages and credit cards. TI1e super-banks that are arising will make it harder for them to be supervised and regulated. The importance of greater supervision cannot be overemphasized. Banks with their hands in too many activi- ties such as the Daiwa bank learned the hard way. Keeping track of banking ac- tivities will be even harder for regulators who are used to con- centrating solely on the banking industry. The new financial con- glomerates that are springing up around the world will create a problem for regulators because they will have to worry about problems a conglomerate may have in its insurance or securi- ties operations, spilling over to its banking side and vice versa. UNION LA Economics or Busi- ness Major? \.1 MAIL:· {OR DliPOSfT IN OUR S(Jir3GESTION BOX) THIS AD TO UNION LAUNDRY FOR A FREE WASH INCI.UOE! YOVR NAMe AND ADORIESS; NAME:----------------~----~------- ACDRESS:--------~--~--------------- 9 Great Re.asons Why You Should Choose Air Force: • High-tech training • Education • Experience • Excellent salary • Management opportunities • Medical and dental coverage • Advancement • Worldwide travel • Tax-free allowances F4lr more information calll-800- 423-USAF or contact your local Air Force recruiter. Graduating??? Unsure of what you'll be doing after gradutation? Do you have office experience, some typing, computer literate and service orientation demanded by the heathcare field? Training oppurtunities are available for self- motivated students looking for an entry into healthcare. Call: Med-Scribe, Inc. (716)-262- 3694, or email to medscrib@vivanet.com. Resumes to: Mcd-Scribe, Inc., 215 Alexander St., Rochester, NY 14607. A •enc , no fees The Economics Department is inviting students to a I for membership in Omi4!ron Delta Epsilon the national Economics honor society. In order to qualify for membership in ODE, you must have a 3.0 cumulative grade point average or better,and must also have an average of at least 3.0 in economics courses. You must be a junior or a senior. You must have taken Economics 12, 20, 31, and 42. but you do not have to be an economics !~~~~!!!!!!!~~~! major: non-majors are welcome to apply if they .§~MMil.IK\ .J()fll~ meet the above criteria. If you wish to join ODE. send a copy ofyour 11.25/hr. or commission. Advertising unofficial transcript to Prof. Stephen Schmidt (not sales· Sales experience helpful but not Prof. Shelton Schmidt!) in the Economics depart- necessary. Training provided. Work Close ment. lt will be reviewed to detennine whether you to Union. Car recomended. Call Steve meet the admissions criteria. If you do meet them, Gorman at (800) 865-9200 for details & you will be given an application fonn. There will application. be a ceremony in spring for newly accepted M r members. Please Feply by April 22. Write for @anrar.bf!· Contac The Editors @ 388- 6155 or e-mail t~e Olnncoriliensis at Concordy@ gar .union.edu World famous PSYCHIC to stars and celebrities--3 5 years experi- ence--can! help you to obtain love, health, wealth and luck. Tele- phone David Gaurdino ANY- TIME at 423-558-1197 or 214- 340-9844; Fax 214-341-0606 I SENIORS I If you are interested in speaking at the Baccalaureate or Commence- ment, submit a 1-4 page draft (approx. 5 min.) to Judy Ludwig, Secre- tary to the Dean of the Faculty and a member of the Commencement Committee, by Friday. April 21. The topic is yours to choose. Please include your 1D number, name, box number and phone number on your draft. If you are interested in singing at the Baccalaureate or Com- mencement, please submit your name to Judy Ludwig by Friday, April 21. If you would like more information about this, contact Judy Ludwig at 6010 or at the Dean of the Faculty's Office on the second floor of the Administration Building. Auditions for speakers and singers wi II be held by the student n~cmhers of the Co.n:une~cement Committee in late April or early May. S1gn up for an audnton t1mc when you submit your draft or name to Mrs Ludwig's office.

OP/E() · . ·. · Q:l!c <£nnrnrDil'ltsis · •. Apl\il 18~ 1996 · Page 8 Opinions And Editorial New Dress Code Implemented at Union ~en: -light khaki J-Crew or Gap pants -dark hiking boots, preferably High Tech (in wann :weather Tevas acceptable) -flannel shirt, stiped boxed pattern (tucked in) -brown braided leather belt -sJet\weless Patagonia fleece vest for winter coat -expensive Mountainsmith backpack (not for serious outdoor use under any circumstapces) -white, filthy, dirty baseball cap (only to be washed before first wearing for that neat \break in\ effect) uadies-black body suit (different styles of for variety) · -black leather boots, preferable making you at least a foot taller. -Calvin Klein T -shirt for casual wear -Calvin Klein blue jeans (if black ones are in the wash) -DKNY tennis shoes -Optional accessories: gold bracelets, watches, and pearls. -Monogramed L.L. Bean backpack ' ijf(r£ Cllnttcnr.hi£ttsi$' The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenectady's Olde.ft Newspaper Anthony C. LaVecchia, Adrian MacLean EDITORS-IN-CHIEF David Pinkowitz EXECUTIVE EDITOR Diana Sedita Evan Morri5 EDITORS EMERITI Stephanie Slobotkin NEWS EDITOR LarryPaska ARTS EDITOR Scott Stedman LAYOUT EDITOR Adam J. Richman ASSOCIATE EDITOR Rick Lederer Laurel Ruma PHOTO EDITORS Stephanie Kuehn COPY EDITOR 'Peter Farnum Jen Pelose ASSIST ANT COPY EOlTORS Anand Roo COMINTERN REP. Da-vid Eder Chris Richards LIVING EDITORS Dennis Popeo SCIENCE EDITOR Andrew FrAdkin COMPUTER MANAGER Barry Eisenberg ON-LINE DIRECTOR Jared Ricbmnn CARTOONIST Scott Scullion · TOKEN SOCIALIST Raquel Milhnan OPINIONS EDITOR Jonatha11 Fader Eric Svenson SPORTS EDITORS PHOTOGRAPHERS: Scott Druckemiller, Laurie Kirschner, Shaun Paul Manore. STAFF: Dagan LaCorte, Greg Kalish, Omar AI-Khalidi, Emily Bait is Jeff Drnzba, Jon Gasthalter, Mike Leding, Conor McKenzie, Marti Metz, Aaron Sicotte, Aileen Quigly, Kathy Walters, Karen Watts Michelle Neie.r A Nice Warm Experience by Henrik Haeckel Staff Writer For the past term, there has been an odd occurrence in my bathroom. There has been a . line of people waiting. Th!s, in and of itself, is nqt quite so odd as the fact that\ only one of our showers has worked for the past ter:m and a ha.lf. This un- pleasant situation was further highlighted in the past weekend when the one functioning shower's drain began to clog. It led to truly unpleasant and abrupt showers on painful weekend mornings. · I h~ve written complaints on the mysterious hoard on my R.A. 's door. ;Every few weeks, when I get fed up, I write a complaint on the door just for kicks. When a passing repair· man appeared one day on our floor, I and my fellow floor mates explained to him the situ- ation. Still nothing. I have an interesting theory as to why this has continued. But in order to explain more thoroughly, I must digress. We have three showers for seventee~ or so people. The one shower in the middle of this luxurious triumvirate is now the sole functioning shower. The shower to her right teases you with an almost warm temperature, but not quite. Ever so often she sput- ters, alarmingly, in mid-shower to cold. The shower on the left is completely frigid. She has never hinted warm all win- ter or spring. Now, it is my theory thatthe facilities repair- men see that the water is run- ning and believe that there is no problem. Technically. I guess they do function, just not normally. I realize that we will probably survive the rest of the term with one·sole function- ing shower and still live to be unproductive, content human beings, no better or worse for the experience. Still, it would be nice to fix these two beauti- ful showers. This entire episode illustrates a more important point than my mere complaint of one sole bro- ken, unfixed item on my floor. My point is that I was told be- fore I moved here (Raymond, which last year was a frater- nity). that the houses (fraterni- ties) up here received poor treatment in repairs due to their fraternity status. Nothing that I have experienced this year has led to dissuade me from this observation. It is quite possible that I am unfairly criticizing someone. but I think that if the fraternity administration rela- tionship is to improve there must be a movement on both sides. We are all students here, regardless of the issue of Greek letters, and we all would like an equal opportunity to enjoy life here.· Especially nice warm showers. INTERNET AND E-MAIL ADRRESSES E-Mail Us at Concordy {a'Jgar.union.edu. or on the World Wide Web@ http://virtuaLuilion.edui\'CCnconly/ index.html. All E-mail submissions must be recieved by 5 .PM the Monday before publication, and must be less than 500 words. Please see the Opinions policy on the opposite page for more details I

I I. I' (i Page 9 · April 18~ 1996 · O:.l1L' [nncnr('liL'ltsis _ ·. · ' OP/ED Opinions and Editorial Perfection: Fantasy, Facade, or Reality?? by Rawson Thurber Staff Writer Wen I'm back, and I've been thinking about a few things. The -first and most prevalent of those things which has occupied my mind has been women and the :large inequities of.their daily ex- istence ~ namely pl1ysical appear- ance. Now, I have three sisters, so I've pretty much seen it all (figuratively), but the one thing that has bothered me lately are the lengths that women, especially women on this campus, go to look attractive. Pick up any \woman's maga- zine,\ _Sa.\;<;y,Mademoiselle, Cos- mopofilan, V(Jgue, etc., and what you'll see on. the covers and in- festing the innards of those peri- odicals is absolutely appalling. \Lose weight before your date!\ \Bike your Butt Off!\ \How to make him fall in love with you!\ \Diets thal work!\ \Firm your Abs!\ and other such nonsense. You open one ofthese magazines and you'll see fifteen articles cen- tered around losing weight, an article about how to give good fellatio (notthat I have a problem with that one), and, .squeezed in among this mountain ofbullsh\'t there's a paragraph saying, \You should feel goodjust the way you are.\ Are you kidding me? Why is our society so weight- phobic? Women in our culture are judged almost solely on th.eir physical appearance. There is a religion ·Of skinniness in America, and, for women, it is a cult. Pris- oners in California are given far more calories in their daily diet than the average fit woman is ex- pected to consume. Why is this? Why do women stand for such a grave inequity? WeJI, first of aU, ies because of idiots like me who pick up this \woman's magazine,\ or Victoria :v Secret, or PlaybtJy, look at the pic- tures, and begin ~alivating ljke a Pavlovian dog. I might be stand- ing next to a perfectly attractive woman, open up to a picture of Pamela Anderson, and begin . commenting on ·her\utter perfec· tion.\ TI1ere'stl1e rub. Men com- pare the women they see in pic- tures to real women. Women are mercilessly com- pared to these physical anomalies, these freaks of nature. Females are relentlessly compared to, and un- fortunately cotnpare themselves to these models and Supennodels who have hit the \Pick-Six\ in the genetic Lotto. These women do not exist. l11ese pictures we see have been airbrushed, the women have the perfect mtificial light shining on them to l1ide their sup- posed \trouble spots.\ and the final picture we see ·in the publi- cation is the absoll!te best shot out of the one-hundred and fifty taken that day. So how is this even remotely fair? TI1e answer is ob- vious: it's not. , Now, I've spoken with many Union College women on this subject, and they all .seem to see and agree that this obsession with thinness is ridiculous, and sadly that it is rampant through- out the little vacuum we call Union. I challenge the men ofthis campus to walk through the Col- .1 ege Center at any peak time and look at what the womenfolk are eating. You'll see frozen yot,tttrt, salads, and various other nonfat or low-fat items. As a male, it has been my expe- rience that men are aware that women eat like this, but we tend not to give it a second thought. To my gender, this is just another on the ever-increasing list of the weird things women do n1at we just don't understand. But what we don't realize is that these women are starving themselves right in front ofus, across from us at a table, and while they are talk- ing with us. Do you think women want to eat like rabbits? Do you think they want to eat a bagel and water? No, of course they don't. l11ey want to eat a bowl of ice cream, or a bacon double-cheese- burger. They want to eat what they want'to eat, not some low-fat, calo- ric conscious kibble. So we return to the question: Why do women do this, and why do .men tacitly approve? Well, having never been a woman, and only rarely dressing like one, I can on'ly offer some ofthe infonnation l gathered while discussing this topic with three members of this mysterious gender. From what I understand, women view other women as com- petition, plain and simple. When women get dressed to go out, they are preparing to compete with the other beautiful women on campus. Now, before the men reading this article begin to puff out their chests with pride, let me note that women don't dress-up merely to attract men, so get over yourselves. l11ey do it for them- selves, and almost secondarily for men. Women aren't fooled by our gender, guys. We aren't that _com- plicated. 1l1ey know when' we ask them ifthey want us to walk them home that it's not because we are being chivalrous, but because we're horny. We aren't fooling anyone. But that's another article altogether. So what can we do? How can we attempt to balance these scales? Well the first step on the male end of the teeter-totter is Union's Disfigured Student Body In case you have not noticed there has been a marked increase in the disfigured student body at Union in the last week. It seems that we have a slight problem here that no one is willing to address. 1l1ere are those here who have a problem with their tempers and controlling these same tempers. An even larger problem resulting ftom these large tempers and their periodic~ appearance is that the entire student body is too intimi- dated to speak about it and the administration is too meek to force the issue. l11e result is that at least once a. term this school enjoys a fight or two, and at least once a year this school enjoys a huge brawl. I must confess it is quite scary and amazing at the same time. A fight i11volving probably upwards of twenty people will probably be \~ritten up in this week's \Union College Campus Safety Depart- ment Week1y Incident Summary\ as \DISORDERLY CONDUCT: disturbance reported involving several students. SPD notified. Conduct charges filed.\ Yet, noth- ing will be done to anybody. The administration will not take action against anyone and no one wil1 speak up. The problems that exist will continue to exist withoutreso- lution. Well, there was a brawl, which caused one person to break his leg and others to get stitches. etc., and if it is tile students' and administration's wish to make be- lieve that this entire incident did not occur, then so be it. 11ten you shouldn't fool yourself by pub- lishing the mock inc:;ident report in the paper. Make believe the entire thing was a bad dreaQJ, jt ~ never happened. For me it is not a figment of my imagination, but a reality. In the real world where most people live, this type of thing either goes to the police, where crimmal charges are filed and civil suits begun, or it becmnes a hell of a Jot worse before the fonner is intro- duced to the situation. Then again it has been brought to my attention that this may just be my naive interpretation of reality. Even so, how long can people, first•tier college students, act like immature idiots flexing their beer muscles? Eventually either you lose or you become such a loser that you end up fighting fellow losers, at which point when- and whereveryot1 die society will not care. TI1ere is no real point to this column. If there were to be one, it would be that this individual feels that if these things are go- ing to happen, well. then Jet liS be open about or mock ign~rance. Why_ hide it? I mean, hell, it is tattooed across more than a few peoples' bodies. I do not like to pretend that I have to hide that something happened, but by the same token I realize that I would be dead if l put my name on this. Sol figure in a half act of courage I may begin a step towards truth that someone else may be more able and willing to carry on. Name Withheld by Request simple. Stop comparing women to the genetic anomalies you see in the pages of Penthou.\'e, Hu.\'tler, and ·other such magazines. Real- ize that when you flip through those do.g-eared pages, what you're looking at is a non-reality, it docs not exist. You are never going to meet a girl named Candi who likes \people that are nice,\ hates \rude people,\ and enjoys \doing it\ in exciting places. She doesn't exist, and those breasts that could poke your eye out aren't real either. I have compassion for the male libido, since I myself have one, and they can be a lot of fun. So let me clarify my point. Am I im- plying that the pages of Playboy be filled with plain women? Do I want to see a tremendously aver- age women in the pages of Victoria ',,. SecrcN'! Or an extremely obese woman in Deep TI1roat IV? Barring fetishes, I'd say no. [ un- derstand the need to objectify women in smut mags andpomos. But we need to be able to sepa- rate the fantasy from the reality. Women aren't bom like Pamela Anderson, they are built like her. So understand and appreciate women for the beauty they pos- ses. Tile next time a girl walks past a table of you and your buddies. and you find yourself saying, \Yeah she's got a nice face, but look at those chubby ankles,\ take a pause and look into the nearest mirror- how many Brad Pitts do you see? Men should wake-up every morning thankful that they don't have to deal with anything close to the body-con- sciousbullsh*t that women swim in on a daily basis. It comes down to this: people in glass houses ... As for the fairer side of the equation-well, that's a little more complicated. 1l1e magazines and TV commercials are not only a cause, they are also a symptom. They are a barometer of a culture and country that values physica:t beauty more than any other in the history of the world. America is killing its daughters, and at a younger and younger age. Eating disorders have become a \Badge of Courage,\ an insane trend, and it has to stop. Try to remember when you first became conscious of your weight? When did you start drinking Diet Coke? And in- cidentally, Diet Coke tastes awful. I don't care what you claim, it is utterly deplorable. It is not good, your body has simply built up a tolerance to it- nothing more. But again, I digress. When did you stop eating whatever your tummy wanted? Girls today are starting to diet in the fifth grade. The.fifth grade. How can we as a semicon- scious society allow this? So maybe the first step is for women to begin to truly love them- selves. and end this absurd ob- session with skin and bones. Health and fitness are fine aspira- tions, but striving towards a tanned translucency -as many of our coeds seem to be- is not only unhealthy, it is repugnant. Men need to become aware of the vast chasm that lies between a two-di- mensional pinup and wann flesh. l11ere will always be the Helens of this world, there will always be the Brad Pitts, the trick is to rec- ognh;e that neither are perfection. In fact, they are exactly the oppo- site, they are the aberration. So hit those weights, jump on that stairmaster, and run off those pounds, 'cause Spring's a comin'! Comments, Hate Mail, Questions?: Rawson Thurber, Box #2018 Disgust Expressed Concerning Last Week's Cartoon To the Editor: Up until today, I have found the Concordiensis infonnative, and interesting. I was appalled when I noticed the cartoon on page 8 referring to Coach Delventhal's resignation. Coach Delventhal has been a valued employee of the Athletic Department, and the col- lege as a whole for many years. To publish such a cartoon shows a complete lack of taste on the part of the Concordiensis staff. Perhaps when the student who penned this \cartoon\ joins the \real\ world, and has a mortgage to pay, and real responsibilities, it won't seem quite so amusing to leave a job. in the future it might be an idea for the college community and the Concordiensis staff to show just a bit more discretion when selecting what is suitable for print. BobbieHlat Athletic Department

Survival of the fittest: Union College's Changing Social Scene by Conor McKenzie Staff Writer Traditionally, Greeks have been the dominant force on cam- pus. Currently though, that role has to be questioned, as the role of fraternities is obviously chang- ing. When it comes dowu to it, you'd really have to be oblivious to not noti-ce that Union College's Greek (pronou~ced \social\) scene is rapidly changing. Last year we lost Delta-Phi and Delta Upsilon, and this year Zeta Beta Tau is calling it quits. Even Kappa Alpha, the first collegiate social fraternity changed to a coed so- ciety years ago, is now virtually invisible to most of the campus. Some sororities are seeing farge numbers de-pledge, while others are having to extend rush in or- der to get enough pledges to keep their housing. In the place of two of these fra- ternities, two new theme houses will be bursting onto the scene next year. An Asian interest theme house will occupy Zeta Beta Tau's old space in Davidson, and a new theme bouse dedicated to providing social alternatives will occupy Raymond House up- campus. Do these changes sig- nal the beginning of the ·Greek system's eventual demise? The answer is simply \no.\ On the contrary, I feel that these changes are all contributing towards the diversification of Union College's social scene. As mentioned in the ( 'mu:tm/iensi.vcditoriallast week, fratemities get a lot of bad press both nationally and locally for excessive ddnking, hazing, and the slow destmction of historic b~ildings. Many campuses simi- lar to Union have already elimi- nated or severely restricted their Greek systems-and with mixed results. Colleges like Amherst seem to function fine without Greeks. Others like Colby or Hamilton are finding themselves stuck with very awkward social situations. I've heard Colby's parties compared to \High -School dances with kegs.\ Union is in a rather unique po- sition. Not only did it invent the fratemity, but it is also home to several Alpha Chapters. Con- versely, similar to otheF institu- tions, it is struggling with the is- sues surrounding the Greek sys- tem. As a college, we need to ce.lebrate social change. It's al- ready clear that amongst the 20 or so fratemities and sororities on campus, there are a half dozen or more dmninant houses. To put it bluntly, there are sim- ply too many houses on campus, and the excess ·of these houses serves ohly to weaken the system as a whole. So Why do all these houses exist? I'm told that not too many years ago the pressure to .go Greek used-to be ilnmense. Everyone wanted. to pledge~ thus justifyii1g the need for so many houses. As sophomore Jenn Morrison .put it, \Things are changing, staying indepe11dent is now just as respected a position as going Greek.\ So what will serve to supple- ment the shrinking Greek system? Each thenie house has a different goa:!. I'm involved with the house that will be occupying Rayl'nmid The Outsiders ·, ..; .. by Jeffery Druzba Staff Writer TI1e first day of classes goes by ... nothing special. It's the same every time, with the orientation to the class and discussion of the syllabus, etc. Everyone leaves class, most ofthem satisfied with their decision to take whatever they are taking, but some decid- ing otherwise. TI1e class meets again on Wednesday ... your first contact with TI1e Outsiders. The people who were in class on the first day are a special bunch even if a good portion of them don't know a good portion of any- one else in the group. Surprisingly enough, a clique is formed with- out even knowing it. So, come Wednesday, at the start of class, when those one or two people show up and speak with the pro- fessor for a mome11t beforeiak~ ing a sea,t and looking around:ev- eryone else is thinking the same thing - \He wasn't here on Mon- day, what right does he have to be here?\ It's bad enough that people who transfer into a class late missed a bunch of stuff al- ready, but they must also endure the fact th~t for the rest of the tenn they will be known as \The Out- siders\ to the original group and treated as such. Every day that the class meets must be a living emo- tional hell for them. \Why is ev- eryone looking at me? Am I dressed funny? Is there something on my face?'' \Oh no, my friend, there is no other reason outside of the fact that we're in a special group We belong to the group of people who were.JJer:e from day one. Nq;':my friend, there is no way that you will ever be one of us. I am sorry to inform you, but you are different, and we despise your kind.\ Slowly; The Outsiders lose all their friends and begi1i spending more at\d ·more time· by them- selves. Their grades in the class slip, they forget about quizzes and exams, they miss entire weeks of class, they get violent thoughts of revenge in their heads, they fan- tasize about banning their class- mates who are all part of the clique they have come to despise, and they drop out of Union Col- lege and read ~tp on naughty things. The Outsider does a stint ·for a brief while as a short order cook at Brandywine where he saves up money enough to rent the small one room apartment he lives in on Wendell Avenue. He reads and researches aild waits patiently for his chance. He goes to the Nott Memorial on a regu- lar basis and quietly observes ev- erything: how the place is set up, what hours are busiest with stu- dents. where people like to sit. For months he lives his regimented life, sleeping for only a few hours, at most, each night. The rest of t·he time, he spends clutching his stomach in the dark and rolling up into the fetal position while screaming (to his neighbor's an- noyance), \Accept me! Accept me!\ Eventually, the day comes which draws a maniacal smile upon the lips ofTite Outsider. He makes his way to the Nott Me- morial in the morning and then next :year. As a hot1se, we plan on being just as socially oriented as any fratern.ity on campus. However, we will focus :on pro- viding what tl1e soCial fratemity does not offer. We wiH be hold- ing weekly coffee houses, small bands~ OJ' s, poetry readings, dis- - cuss ions, and other events yet to be described. Our doors will al- ways be open, and, as much as anything else, wewantto provide a· comfortqble place to relax with friends and be stimulated musi.- cally and intellectually. U1~ion's social scene is dearly changing. However, it has yet to be decided whethetthis will be a path of evolution orde•evolution. I believe that UnionCollege's so• cial future wiH be composed of Greek houses who emerge as dominant, and of theme houses that begin to filltbe space left by other Greeks who begin to fade away-somewhat like Darwinian evolution. To presume that Greeks will ~ontinue to take the completely dominant social role as they always have would be foolish .. It's time to thinkprQgres- sively and devise a scenario where we can h~ve a balanced social scene stimulated by Greeks and others wlto are currently emerging. The ball is already rolling; we can act, and affect its course, or we can remain inactive and let the administration direct the change. heads to Brandywine to work. Three hours 'later, a thunder and a rumble .shake.,tbe Brandy,wine Diner and The Outsider laughs to himself. A few .hours -after that, two local reporters come to the diner for some cake and coffee, eagerly discussing what the title on the frontpag.eofthe next day's Gazette should read. The first one says, \How about: NOTT A GOOD DAY?\ The other one says, \Nah ... too cheesy. Why not just get down to it: UNION COL- LEGE BLOWN TO OBLIVION?\ The two decide on the latter and The Outsider, lean- ing on the ·countertop in the nearby kitchen while listening to their conversation,. smiles and decides that the two men must indeed be fine journalists to have made such a good decision about their work. COLLEGE APPROVES NEWEST THEME DORM! Courtesy of Asian House Tite Student Affairs Commit- tee, after two strenuous meetings, decided on Monday night to ac- cept a proposal to create a theme house for students who are inter- ested in learning more about East, South and Southeast Asia. TI1e new donn will occupy space in Davidson that was originally de- signed for fraternity living. TI1e space is currently being used by ZBT, which is relinquishing it for the coming year. Members of the Steering Com- Thurston House to Become a Reality in Fall l996 mittee expressed delight at the new development. As one mem- ber put it, \This decision should allay the fears of those who fear that the Administration is a pro- tector of the status quo.\ As of Tuesday, no fonnal applications had yet been received for the donn (perhaps because the dead- line was still four days away). But starting Friday, the Steering Com- mittee wil1 be busy processing and selecting applicants for the 22 spaces. (Applicants who wish to room together can staple their applications accordingly, in twos, threes or fours.) The Student Affairs Commit- tee had to choose from among four separate proposed uses for the space. In addition to the Thurston House proposal, peti- tions were received from a frater- nity (AEPi), frotil another theme house (an arts-interest donn), and from Residence Life, which wished to create all-night study space. It was clearly not an easy decision for the SAC to make. Tile central purpose of the new house is to create at Union a space where students who are interested in Asia can pursue that interest, through programs and activities of all sorts. Plans for I 996/97 include ethnic dinners and festi- vats, movie videos~ infonnal fac- ulty talks, aHd orientation sessions linked to Union's term-abroad programs in China, Japan and Korea. Donn residents will re- ceive support from ASU, Shakti and the East Asian Studies Pro- gram. The donn will also be a sym- bol signalling Union's recogni- tion of the impottance of Asian culture. According to Steering Committee members, their inten- tion is to select a truly mu1ticultural mix of residents, within which no 011e ethnicity will be dominant. \After all,\ as one member put it, \the whole point is for us to learn from each other. If we're all alike, what would we learn?'' The house will boast a large social space on the ground floor, framed by picture windows on three sides and opening out onto a patio/lawn area, and a sec.11>nd floor with five four-person suites and two singles. Application forms are available at Res. Life, Dean of Students Office, and the Eco. Department; andmust be re- turned to the Eco. Department no later than 4 PM this Friday, April 19. Results of the selection pro· cess will be announced no later than Monday April 22.

Features A Fairy Tale for Our Times by Rawson Thurber StafjWfiter And so it was a dim day in a land thathad once shined bright. The Knights and Maidens of Rowlandshire had once roamed tlte hills and valleys in utter free- dom, but once the reign of the Evil King and his henchmen be- gan, a dal'k cloud blanketed the rays of sunlight and lave, and all were in despair. Rowlandshirewas once a place of le~uning and libation, but now it became a place of fear and re- sentment. The Knights no longer served.the common good, and the Maidens began to fight amongst themselves. AU seemed lost. The scholars, instructors,. and learned people spoke .of a time when the land was ruled by a King who had listened to his people and cared for the feelings of aU. Titey, too, were wrapped in the blanket of despair which kept none warm. The Evil King and his hench- men had turned Rowlandshire into a place filled with cold rain, dark days, and destitution. The King cencerned himse1f with the building of castles and theaters, but turned a deaf ear to his sub- j~~~~: _requests. For five years the land had been under the rule of this malicious king and his two-faced hench- men. Slowly but surely, circles of Knightshadbeenhanished. Many :clans had been exiled from the once happy and festive land. The people ofRowlandshire began to protest the banishment of their comrades, but the Evil King would not heed their pleas. In- stead he tightened his grip, can• celled many festivals, and had his vile henchmen lax those who dared attempt any celebration. Tite people of Rowlandshire were deeply saddened and tried to remember a time when all was good, and the people were learn- ing and playing in 'a hannonious balance. Some held small carni- vals on the borders of the once great land, ~utit was to little avail. Slowly the people began to for- get how great the land once was, and started to accept the shackles of a joyless realm. They began to tum all their attention to the dull solace of books and one-sided learning. Still, the darkest day was yet to come. Those Knights that re- mainedwithinthe borders began to fight amongst themselves. They slowly turned their attention from the Evil King and his Jowly henchmen and began to quibble with each other in a most unknightly fashion. The lowest of these arguments broke into a battle in which a fair Maiden was injured, something that would have never been allowed in the glory days of Rowlandshire. And so it was that tl1e once lush land became a place of petty and base infighting amongst the people, and all appeared lost. Jt was at this darkest hour that the legend arrived. He rode upon a white steed with shar:p eyes. He wore a white cape lined. with a gold that .shone unlike any that had ever been seen. His armor was a deep gar- net and fashioned by the Gods themselves. To many the Gamet Knight was only a legend~ an old wives' tale. Few believed that this fabled founder and champion of Rowhmdshire had ever existed. But there he was, as honest as the sun. As he rode through the gloomy land, an odd light seemed to shine on him through the thick clouds. He rode through the towns and viHages of Rowlandshire, stop- ping only to say, \the time is now.\ When the. people heard these .words, they came out fwm their homes, and, for the first time in a long time, their hearts were filled with hope. Tite learned people, Knights, and Maidens began to follow the Garnet Knight like the Pied Piper of old. The Garnet Knight lead the people of Rowlandshire to the steps ofthe Evil King's castle attd stopped. All fell silent as the vi- sionary Knight dismounted his white sta11ion. Up he stepped to a rise in the earth that allowed him . to see aU. the faces of the people who wanted change. And the Gamet Knight said, \People ofRowlandshire, these are dark days that have .fallen upon us. The tin1e has come to remember the words of a great Einperor, 'A house divided against itself cannot stand;' We can no longer fight amongst our- selves. Remember that we are all subjects of an Evil King. Knights, Maidens, and learned people must bond together to right a greater wrong. We cannot allow our beloved land to be Without festival and light. It is time that we wipe away our petty differ- ences and depose a comtpt king and his evil court. TI1e time has come to grab hold of the reins of this land, and steer it toward the sun.\ With that, the Garnet Knight vanished, and a dull murmur be- gan in the throngs of people. It was time to take back the land they had once loved, to retutn to the days where libation and learn- ing were convergent paths lead- ing to a happy end. And so it was that on that day the people revolted against their Evil King and his nefarious henchmen. They stormed the castle and chased out dark days. Those that elected the new king chose one the people respected and admired. Soon the bright days, full ofleaming and fun, re- turned. Few remembered the old court and their evil ways. Knights seldom argued with Knights. Maidens returned to being gra- cious. And all was well in the kingdom of RowJandshire. Qrltc <ltoncurbiensis April 18, 1996 Page l 1 tudent of the Week: Greg Buchanan by Kara Christian Staff Writer Many times, the unique .contri- utions, talents, and chievements of indi- iduals here at Union are verlooked. In an effort o reco~nize the outstand- ng students on our earn- us, the Cmu:vrdien.vis ould like to feature one tudent each week as 'Student of the Week.\ To kick off our col- •mn, we'd like to recog- . 1ize· intemati onal stu- ent/athlete, Greg Greg, of ancouver, Canada, was · ecmited for hockey after . wo years playing in a unior hockey .league in anada and came to . nion for a new and dif- . erenl .experience. Here in the tates, Greg is able to expecience he benefits of a liberals arts edu- . ation, unique from most colleges . nd universities in Canada. Hockey has played an impor• ant role throughout .Greg's life nd Union's defenseman appre- ialcs all the sport has done for ·tim. Greg, currently a junior, . omments, ••Hockey has opened lot of doors for me, both on and . off the ice.\ 11uough his hockey experiences, Greg has been able to travel but thinks the greatest benefit was his opportunity to at- tend Union. While .hockey has been a main focus during Greg's time at Union, he has had many other great experiences and has made many contributions to the Union community. Away from the rink, Greg is a dedicated Economics major and is inteFested in possi- bly pursuing a career in finance. Titis winter, Greg had the oppor- tunity to intern at Merrill Lynch, where he received firsthand ex- perience in his major by assistin a broker in his daily activities. addition, through the Economic Club, Greg participates in the Jun ior Achievement Program, wher he visits and teache at local elementa schools hoping t convey the \stay i school\ message t youngsters. As a Germa minor, Greg spen last spring term i Frieberg, Germany which he said ha been the highlight o his Union experienc so far. Greg has en joyed the seemingl endless travel oppor tunities at Union. Greg com mented that althoug academics an hockey have bee most important to him at Union there has been a lot more to hi college experience. Buchana explains, \College is a maturin process; a time to try a lot of dif. ferent things. If you want to ge the most out of your e~peri.ence you've got to do a little bit of ev erything.\ Greg's various expe riences make him a well-rounde student/athlete, and a great asse to the Union College community The Answer Girl Top Ten Rejected Names for The \Reamer\ College Center 10. The Fro-Yo Palace of Fun 9. TI1e Sorority Center 8. TI1e Refer Crack Center 7. The pi ace that everyone claims to hate, but ends up sitting at for hours on end doing nothing but eating-bagels, drinking bottled water and people watching. 6. Minerva's Brothel 5. Tite House that Eliphelet Nott Built (a1most). 4. Home of the Unabomber! 3. The Research Center for Greasy Pizza 2. Hull's House of Gloom 1 , l11e Center for a Harmonious and Content Student Body Dear Answer-girl, Now that we have a beautifully refurbished Nott Memorial, why can we only use it for high tea and poetry readi11gs? Doesn't it seem wasteful to spend all of that money on something the student body onlY. has limited access to? Sincerely, Quizzical Dear Quizzical, Sure it would make sense to open-up a National Historical Monument that has been recently renovated at great expense to a bunch of drunken college stu- dents, but just stop and look around you. There are plenty of other places to hold major events for the student body. We can have bands play in the cozy field house, or the comfortable Memorial Chapel. lfyou want a safe place ·'1 to listen to live music and drink beer, we have the perfectly placed Chef's Bar, conveniently located next to the hustle and bustle of Dutch Hollow. And if that's not enough, basements of Humanities and Social Sciences could hold lectures and Crosstalks. So maybe you should realize how good you have it, and leave the Nott to pro- spective students and wealthy alumni. Dear Answer-girl. Why is it that the bottled water in Dutcl1 costs anywhere from a $I to$ 1.50, and coffee and Coca- cola are only $0.80? Doesn't this seem weird? -Disturbed and Thirsty DearD&T, Well, there's an easy answer to your question. The fact of the matter is that what comes out of the soft drink dispenser is not ex- actly what it claims to be. The Coca-cola is not the carbonated, sugar-filled, artificially flavored beverage you might expect. In fact, it is not carbonated at all. It is simply Schenectady tap water pumped through those pipes and sweetened to fit the label. Because brown fuzzy water is a natural resotlrce in Schenectady, Marriot can charge less. Just another bo- nus to going to school in the up- state area! Dear Answer-girl, I recently attended the Far Cry! Your A1amma concert at Memo- rial ChapeL I must say that I was embarrassed to he a Union stu- dent. The chapel was almost empty. Titere were approximately fifty students there. Your Mamma's not only a great band, but they are Union's own. So why didn't the student body support them? What in the hell was ev- erybody thinking? Sincerely, Pissed-off Dear Pissed, Well, I was there, too. I was dis- appointed at the lack of enthusi- asm. Let me offer this as the breakdown of the thought process for Union students: 50 people thought: \Hey live music for $3! Sounds great!\ 2,150 people thought: \Naw I'm not going. No one is gonna be there.\ Congratulations to: Peter Buscemi: Peter recently turned twenty-one! He celebrated this passage by proceeding to get toilet-hugging drunk and nearly spent the night in the Schenectady County Correctional Facility. Way to go Pete! Rita Wilson & Co: Rita Wilson and her cast of thespians taught au eager group of young people how to tend bar in a thoughtful and coherent manner. Hours were spent instructing the students how to decipher between the three lev- els of intoxication. Of special note was our Student Body President Ken Chase, who plays a drunk with remarkable accuracy. Questions that need to be an- swered? Wrestling with the im- ponderable? Write the Answer- girl at the Concordiensis Office!

Page 12 QI)t' ([nttrllri'lintsis A prj I 18, 1996 · · . · · Li\ in~ - ' LIVING Searching for Truth and the Plumber by David Eder Living Editor What is 3rt? What is philoso- phy? What is religion? What is literature? ~at is physics and quantum mechanics? WHAT IS LIFE? 1l1eanswerto allofthese questions is: the search for Truth. Art tries to paint an accu- rate picture of some truth. Phi- .losophers argue endlessly about what is tme. Religion defines truth. Physicists attempt to dis- cover what the truth is about dif- ferent scientific phenomena. Is light a particle or a wave? How can chaotic systems exist simul- taneously .with the organized systems? lltese are two of the many truths that scientists are attempting to uncover. Wltether you recognize it or not, every- one is searching for Truth. Truth is defined as: an indis- putable fact or something that is verifiably real. l11e thing to re- member is that all Truth exists. Truth is not created or invented. Truth is discov~red or uncov- ered. At one time it was consid- ered to be true that the world was I i flat. The truth was later discov- ered. l11e world was always round. Christoph.er Columbns did not make the world round, hejust un- covered the tmth. The same. goes for all things; all questions have a true answer. Tmth is out tl1ere, it just has to be uncovered from the myths that have distorted our pe~:­ ceptions. MicheJangelo once said that his sculptures a1ready existed in the marble, he just had to ~hip away the extra rock. This is ameta- p1tor for Truth. It already exists, we simply must ''cleanse our doors of petcepti on\ in order to discover it. Ultimately we wiJI discover the answer to all questions, and those answers will lead us to the Ultimate Truth. Yes, the Big Guy lfirnself. God is Truth, and that Truth is real and verifiable. But for now there are very few Truths that are known. Our found- itlg fathers found \certain tntths to be self-evident.\ Newton uncov- ered a few laws that see1n to be trutlts; unfortunately, many of Einstein's theories have not been verified as True. Althottgh Einstein did uncover a Truth when l1e said that \all great spirits encounter vio- lent opposition from mediocre the perfect summertime anitude Don't just hit the beach, hit the books this summer and get a head start on your next semester. Enroll in one or both of Pace University's summer sessions. Courses are available in a wide variety of areas. From Business to Computer Science & Information Systems to Arts & Sdences, Nursing and Education. And six-week sessions allow for plenty of stu1Unertime living. Summer session students enrolled in at least 6 credits may live on either the New York City or Westchester campuses for only $64 a week. Amazing when you-consider all you'll be close to ... the South Street Seaport, Greenwich Village, Little Italy, Chinatown and Central Park. Not the city type? Then consider our Pleasantville campus, where you'll find swimming, jogging and tennis facilities. Don't procrastinate! Spaces are filling up quickly. Register today in r e r order to make the most of yonr summeJ'. For more information, call914•773•3700, Extension 9319ore-mail infodr@ny027 .wan.pace.edu SUMMER SESSION ij} BEGINS JUNE 3, 1996 SUMMER SESSION ~ BEGINS JULY 15, 1996 PACE UNIVERSITY 1iltmm.c1 •s£·!'~1011 M9319 For Sale: POOL TABLES, (two)~ sed, EXCELLENT CONDITION. Solid slate with top quality covering. Handsome side wood paneling. Both are 46 inches wide. One is 78 inches long, the other 82 inches. Prices are $800 and $1200. Includes a set of Aramith balls, cue sticks, and racks. Will deliver and set up. Can be seen Mon.-Fri. mornings until noon at 133 S. Church St. just below the bus station. Also by appointment. Adelaine O'Connor, 374-3018; Linda Whitbeck, 377-2162. minds.\ This bas been proven tme, sadly. We all have b'feat spir• its, but most of us, including my- self, e11counter the violent oppo- sition from our own mediocre minds. Philosophers tend to be too egotistical and stuck arguing about definitions to discover and agree upon Tmth. Religions ,on the other hand have discovered and agreed upon some Truths. For example, almost aJI religions have found that there is a God and that selfless acts of Love open the gates of \Heaven or. in agnos- tic terntinology, selflessness yields \Happiness.\ At this time I would like to add ten more Truths to the ever build- ing list of Tmths that have been discovered. l) People are not happy unless they have something to bitch about. 2) Every conversation taking place in a fraternity after 10 P.M. is incredibly shallow. 3) The average Union student de1nands to be treated as an adl.tlt and two hours later throws his/ her hands up with dnmken pride having just \plopped\ his/her · be~r ppng oppofi'entii. 4) You haven't felt pain until you've had your heart broken. 5) People who are often bored are usually boring people. 6).Barry White makes the world a better place. 7) Everything a guy does is some- how related to making himself more appealii1g to women. 8) \It's good to be the king\ (Mel Brooks). 9) You're never too old' to play Twister. 1 0) FOR SOME UNEXPlAINED REASON, PLUMBERS WEAR THEIR PANTS A LITTLE LOWER mANTBEliDlTOFUS. How Dare You Grade Me by Chris Richards Living Editor For too long now I've held off writing about professors. I've tried writing an article on this subject before, but all too often it sounds' as ifl'm whining; so I usttally dump it into the Macintosh trash .can. But this time I am going to do it, for bet- ter or for worse. No matter how bad this article gets, I refuse to dump this one. 'You can't say this. You can't say that. Oh no, you shouldn't do that!' But isn't it worth it? Aren't those green, blue, purple, orange sheets we get at the end of every tcnn disgusting? Tell nie my b'Tade in the class andthen 1'11 tell you what I think ofthe professor. What the .professor thinks about us is what we think about them. No one likes some- one who does not like them. Question mark. Question mark. No professor should ever be allowed to use that symbol. l11at is their crutch. My mind is so .shot on professors who write questimi marks on my papers that I expect them. Even before I start typing, I see question marks. No more questionmarks! If too many pages pass, and no question marks, they begin to get angry andspiteful. Well, we can't let him walk wherever he wants, can we? We'll fix that. \What do you mean by evil? Evil?\ What?! Are you absurd? See that dictionary over there, go and get it if you don't know what lm ean by evi I. Better yet, ask me one more time what it means. Of course I have done most of the shooting at myself, but I still think the manner in which papers are graded is completely ullfair. Well, do you have a better sys- tem, complainer? No, but if a pro- fessor judges you in a certain I ight and thinks that your mind is me- diocre, then nothing $hort of Shakespeare will get you an A. Even before they have picked up your paper, they have already judged it. If they deelrt you clever, then the rambling inconsistencies somehow become poetic. 'Oh, I sec what he's getting at Isn't that wittY. and risky. I'll commend him forltis willingness to take creative chances. B plus.' But if a profes- sor doesn't like you, and thinks you're full of it, then the risks which are a reward for the .B plus student tum into idiotic crap for the C student. They can play you any way they want. It's green.\ Sorry, it's blue.\ It's blue! \Ah 1m, now it's green.\ Maybe I'm being laughed at right now. as you all hold you're A papers; but in something which is so subjective, so non-black and white, how on earth can it only be jndged by one person? Does a figure skating competition get judged by one person? No! And that is only sport, these grades are our lives. The first thing a pro- spective employer looks at is your grade point average. And another thing, since some professors have been teaching some classes for so long, how do we know that they are not storing away aU the greatest ideas from student papers? Like squirrels collecting nuts, they go ahead and write a book centered around five fascinating ideas collected from students over the years. Who could ever know? Why are we the only ones suspected of plagiarism? Professors are the ones with all of our ideas. This could easily be done, and it must happen. Professors have a pool of papers from which to pick out the best ideas, and they are ex- pected to write an interesting book. Doesn't everyone pick up money they see in the street? I really feel like dumping this article now, if I haven't already. Let's get this over with. I also believe that some professors take so long to return papers that they must dump the pile next to the magazine rack in their bathrooms, and only read them when they are .•. ? I wonder how many do that. Surely some must. 'Mmmm ... oohhh ... ughhh god here comes Richards' paper again. Jesus, I don't know what stinks more.'

I I Page 13 Scienc~ and Technology . Q!)t' tflllltLwiliL'll~·is. April 18, I 996 . Science & Technology Common Vaginal Condition Increases Risk of Preterm-Delivery and Low Birth Weight From Tlte Departme11t of Healt/1 and Human Services A common vaginal condition known as bacterial vaginosis (BV) significantly increases a woman's riskofthe premature delivery of a Jowbirth weight infaflt, according to research funded by the Na- tional Institute of Child Health and Human Development .(NlCHD) and the National In sri- bite of Allergy and Infectious Dis- eases (NIAID), Pregnant women who were. di- agnosed with BV during the sec- ond trimester were 40 .percent more likely to give birth to a pre- mature infant with low birth weight (i.e., an infant born before 37 weeks' gestation and weigh- ing less than five pounds) than were women who did not have the vaginal-infection. This increased risk remained after adjusting for other variables, including smok- ing, race, previous delivery of a low birth weight infant, previous pregnancy Joss, number ofprevi- ous live births; m atemal.a:ge, anti- biotic use, and other vaginal in- fections. The research, part of a larger NICHDfNJAID clinical study called the Vaginal Infections and i>re1haturit}i(VIP) Study, will appear in the December 28 issue of the New E11Kiand Journal llj' Medidne. .. 'Pretenn delivery and low birth weight delivery remain two ofthe Tn{)St difficult unsolved problems in our country,\ said principal in· vestigator Dr. Sharon Hillier, now at the University of Pittsburgh/ Magee Women ~s HospitaL \If we find that treating this very com- m{)n vaginal condition can pre- vent pretenn birth_, this would be a· really impottant step in prevent- ing the long-term sequelae that some preten:n, low birth weight infants face.\ BY is caused by an imbalance among the bacteria that are nor- mally found in the vagina. In healthy women, the predominant strain of bacteria found is Lacto- baciiJus. WithBV, increac;ed11um• bers of anaerobic organisms are fo~md, it1cluding GardnereHa vaginalis, Mycoplasma hom;ni.v, andbacteroides. Although these bacteria are also found in healthy women, they sit,111al an abnormal- ity when they outnumber the nor- mal Lactobacillus flora. Previously called Gardneteila vaginitis or nonspecific vaginitis, BV is the inost common vaginal infection in reproductive-aged women. It is also one ofthe most common vaginal infections in pre!,'Tlancy, affectingfrom 12 to 22 percent of pregnant women. While BV has been linked to ptetenn birth· before. this study is the first large enough in size to document the association be- tween the infection and the pre- mahife-delivery of a low birth weight infant after coittfolling for other variables, such as smoking and obstetrical history, Betweenl984 and 1989, the VIP research team enroHed I 0,391 pregnant women from seven medi- cal centers in five cities into this cohort study. None of the women hadknownmedical risk factors for pretenn delivery. A:t 23-26 weeks of gestation, all women were screened forB V us- ing laboratory staining for bacte- rial strains associated with B V. Since vaginal pH tends to be less acidic with BV, pH testing was.also used to detennine if infection was present. l11e women were then followed until delivery to identify birth out- come involving prematuri~y and low birth weight. Of 504 women who delivered premature, low birth weight infants, 20 percent had been diagnosedwithBV. Fur- ther statistical analysis indicated tl1atwomen with BV were 40 per- cent more likely than women with- out the condition to have such a birth. At highestriskwere women · with two particular strains of bac- teria, Mycopla,\'llla homini.f and bacteroides. In addition to BY, the primary tisk factorsforpretenn delivery of a low birth weight infant were smoking, which increased the risk of pretenn delivery by about 40 percent; having already had a preterm infant, which increased the risk about sixfold; and being of African American race, which increased the risk by about 40 pe.-cent. Women with a history of bladder infections or antibiotic use prior to the study were also more likely to have a premature, low birth weight infant Altl10ugh BV is more common ~mong women with new or mul- tiple sexual partners, the organ- isms that cause it have been iso- lated in young women.who are not sexually active. ll1e useofintrau- terine devices have been linked to an increased risk of becoming infected. l11e main symptom associated with BV isanabnonnal vaginal dis- charge with a characteristic \fishy\ odor. As many as 50 per- cent of women, however, have no symptoms at all, and are only di- agnosed after microscopic exami- nation of a sample ofvaginal dis- charge under a microscope. The infectioncanbetreatedwithanti- ery in low-risk women with biotics. \Pregnant women who asymptomatic bacterial vaginosis. have genital symptoms should be In addition to Dr. Hillier, there- screened for this and treated ap- search team for the study on the propriately if they're found to association between B V and have bacterial vaginosis,\ Dr. pretenn delivery included Drs. Hillier said. Robert Nugent, Donald McNellis, The mechanisms underlying and Mark K,lebanoff of the the increased risk of prematurity NICJID; Drs. David Eschenbach and low birth weight associated and Marijane Krohn (now at the with BV are unclear. l11e investi- University of Pittsburgh) of the gators theorize that, in additio11 to University of Washington, Se- causing an infection in the vagi11a, attle; Dr. Ronald Gibbs (now at the BV may cause an infection in the University of Colorado) of the uterus, which somehow triggers University of Texas, San Antonio; pretenn birth. Drs. David Martin and Joseph Although premature delivery Pastorek II of Louisiana State and low birth weight are major University, New Orleans; Drs. contributors to prenatal mortality, Mary Frances Cotch (now at the there is no effective way to pre- Research Triangle Institute) and vent them at this time. The .find- Robert Edelman (now at the Uni- ings from this study, however, may versity of Maryland) of the be the first step toward a preven- NIAID; Dr. A. V:ijaya Rao of the tion strategy that would involve Research Triangle Institute, North screening and treatment of high- Carolina; Dr. Joan Regan of Co- risk women. lumbia University, New York; and Already, a related study by Dr. J. Christopher Carey of the Hauth, et al, has demonstrated University of Oklahoma, Okla- that antibiotic treatment is an ef- homa City. fective way to reduce the risk of The NICHDand the NIAID are premature delivery among women part of the National Institutes of with BV and other non infecti{)US Health, the biomedical research risk factors for pretenn birth. In ann of the Federal government this study, also appearing in the Tite NICHD was established in .December 28 New England .lour- 1962. Since then, the Institute has nal l!{ Medicine, investigators at become a world leader in promot- the University of Alabama at B ir- ing research on reproductive bi- mingham found that they were ology, including fertility regula- able to reduce the rate of pretna- tion, and population issues; de- lure delivery in such women by velopment before and after birth; treating them with the antibiotics matemal, child, and family health; metronidazole and erythromycin. and medical rehabilitation. The Currently, the NICHD's Mater- NIAID conducts and supports nal/Fetal Medicine Unit Network research aimed at preventing, di- is conducting a large clinical trial agnosing, and treating illnesses involving approximately I ,900 such as AIDS and other sexually pregnant women to determine transmitted diseases, tuberculo- whethermetronidazole alone will sis, asthma, and allergies. reduce the risk of pretenn deliv- .--......------------, FDA LICENSES FIRST PRODUCT TO PREVENT SERIOUS RSV DISEASE Volunteers Needed for Community Ser- vice Project From Pre.'>.\' Releases l11e Food and Drug Adminis- tration today announced licens- ing of d1e first product to protect higl1-risk infants.against the worst effects of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) disease, the most common cause of lower respira- tory infections in children. TI1is FDA approval allows the marketing of Respiratory Syncy• tial Virus Immune Globulin lntra- vetlous (Human) (RSVIGIY) for use in high-risk infants under two years old with lung problems due to chronic bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) or prematurity. :RSVIGIV is manufactured by Massachusetts Public Health Bio- logic Laboratories of Boston, and distributed by Medlmmune Inc; of Gaithersburg, Md., under the trade name RespiGam. RespiGam has been found safe and effective in reducing the numberandlength ofhospitaliza• tions due to RSV as well as the severity ofthe disease in high risk infants. \While this new dntg does not prevent infections by respiratory syncytial virus, it is the first prod- uct that reduces serious RSV dis- ease in high-risk children,\ said David A. Kessler, M.D., Commis- sioner of Food and Dmgs. \In particular~ during the flu season, repeated doses of the drug will benefit a significant number of prematurely hom .children in their -first year of life, as wen as chil- dren with chronic lung diseases up to age two.\ In the United States, more than 90,000 children are hospitalized and 4,500 die each year from the disease. RespiGam is made from plasma taken from large numbers ofnonnal, healthy individuals and contains a high concentration of protective antibodies against RSV. TI1ese antibodies do not prevent RSV infections but help protect children against the most serious consequences ofRSV. RSVIGIV ist:,riven intravenously in five monthly doses, with the fire;! dose given in November be- fore the start of the RSV season. RSV outbreaks occur in the U.S. during the late fall, winter and early sprmg. Data supporting the licensing ofRespiGam was obtained in sev- eral clinical trials including a piv- otal trial known as the PREVENT trial. This randomized, placebo- controlled double-blind study in- cluded 510 patients with BPD less than two years old or children under six months old with a his- tory of premature birth. (less than 35 weeks gestation). RespiGam reduced the number of hospitalizations by 41 percent andtime in the hospital by 53 per- cent in the PREVENT trial. In ad- dition, children required fewer days of supplemental oxygen dur• ing their hospital stays. OnDec.l5, 1995,FDA'sBiood Products Advisory Committee re- viewed the licensing application for RcspiGam and recommended that the agency approve the prod- uct for marketing. As with any human immune globulin product, rare allergic re- actions to RSVIGIV are possible. In addition, infants with pulmCJ- nary disease may retain fluicls, and a small percentage of infa11ts in the trials needed new or extra diuretics after receiving RSVIGIV. Because the product is made from human plasma, a small risk . exists for the transmission of blood-borne viruses. However, the risk is low becattse plas1na donors are screened carefuUy and the product is treated with a sol- vent-detergent viral inactivation procedure which inactivates most significant blood-borne vintses. including the one that causes AIDS. VALE PARK CLEAN-UP Saturday, May 4th (Rain date: May 11th) 9:00 am - 4:00pm Main Entrance:Nott Terrace, between Days Inn & 4 Seasons Come Anytime Wear Long Pants and a Long-sleeved Shirt Questions? Call Jim @347-4251

·.' ' Page 14 April 18, 1996 '<liite Ohtntltrltien~is Arts & Entertainment HE SCREENING ROOM \.fanws and !he ( iialll P!'ach. \ With .Joanna f.umley. Miriam Margoyles. l'ete Postlethwaite. !'au/ Terry. With the voices of.C.,'imon Callow. Richard Dreyfuss. Jane Leeves, Miriam Margoyles. Susan Sarandon. and David Thew/is. Directed by 1/enrySe/ick. Rated PG. Walt Disney Pictures. Rating: \'·* (out offour) It seems as though technological break- throughs such as feature-length stop-mo- tion animation films ~rebecoming so com- mon that they really aren't novelties any- more. When Tim Burton 's The Nightmare Before Christmas was released in late 1993 (only two-and-a-half years ago, mind you). it was not only considered a artistic ac- complishment, but a fine piece of storytelling, as well. Then, last winter. Disney outdid itself again (what else is new?) by releasing Toy5;tory, the first full- length feature to be filmed using computer animation. This, of course, is more impres- sive than the feat accomplished two years before, so already, the stop-motion anima- tion concepfbehind James and the Giani Peach does not seem so exciting anymore. even though it remains a delightful way to tell a fantasy. But James and the Giant Peach uses this \gimmick\ (as all Disney filrns have to be gimmicks to attract the steady crowds they do-films likeA Kid in King Arthur's Court bombed for Disney because they had nothing special to sell) to bring to the screen Roald Dahl's rather strange trip through an orphaned boy's fantasy to run away and travel to New York. But hecousc Selick 's film, co-produced hy Denise De No vi and Tim Burton, bears Burton's name, it also hears his mark. and that nH.·ans tak- ing a dark concept and making it morcgrue- some. Terry, in the til m 's opening und closing live-action sequences, plays James, whose parents tell him that they will take him to the t~>p orthc Empire State Building one day. Then, as the narration casually de- scribes. \one day his parents were eaten hy a giant rhino in the sky.\ lf the fantasy was not so serious, this line would prompt out-loud laughing. James is taken in hy his two aunts (Lumley and Margoylts) who loathe children ·and work the poor. lonely hoy as a slave. One day, an old man (Postlchwaitc) approaches the hoy and gives him some slimy-looking, glowing worms, and tells him that they will bring him something magiGal. Soon. a giant peach grows from a'dcad tree, and the aunts arc eager to exploit this phenomenon for profit. Sent to clean up outside one night, James gets \sucked into\ the peach, and is turned into an animated replica of himself. in quite n silly way. 1\s the aunts try to pursue their nephew, James meets a spider (Sarandon), grass- hopper (Ace Ventura 2 's Callow), centi- pede, (Dreyfuss)~ earthworm (Thewlis). glowworm (Margolycs). and ladybug (Lccves). Inside the peach, they venture across the great white Atlantic to the Big !\ pple, \where dreams do come true.\ ac- cording to the Brooklyncsque centipede. During their journey, they encounter an enormous mechanical shark, which may frighten young children. Again, another Burton trademark is to go for the gut rather than the heart. The shark provides the trav- elers with an action sequence, but the point is truly lost, and the shark is more unnec- essarily fi'ightenil1g (()'.viewers than syrn- . . bolic ofany1hing in pmtit:ular Perhaps thi~ film takes n sense of won- der away from viewers hecau:1c the ~tory is extremely trite. Can anyone name the number of Disney films released ir1the last few years which center on a lonely/or- phaned boy/girl who dreams of running away, ends tip doing so by some magical fbrce, nnd befriends color fiJI hut fictiti()us characters such as talking mice or dogs which help the child discover stre11gth within him/herself. Well, here is y~t ;m.., other such Disney concoctim1, complete with verbose insects with voice-overs pro- vided by recently~ reemerging stars. (I lad this been made two years ago, would Dreyfuss and Callow have gotten these parts?) The insects mevc so fast and act so hyper aboard their floating peach, they all could use a good sedative. They all sing, too, which is quite annoying, consid- ering that with all their hyperactivity on board- ship? - you can 'I' :really tnake out what they' rc saying, nor do you cnre. Once again, these insects arc recycled hits of personalities you've seen hcf()re in a similar context: the centipede is one who talks tough hut is genuinely good (The Cowardly I ,ion), the grasshopper is an in- tellectual snob who becomes \hip\ by the end, the spider is a loner who comes to accept the value of friendship ... need we go on? By the finale, no one really feels the connection James has to his new-found friends. After all, they' rc giant hugs who tower over the little clay kid.! When the group finally reaches the Big Apple (al- though \finally\ is really an inappropr-iate word - their adventure is over before it really hegins), Jm'Fles cnnfronts his mcnn aunts one lasttimc. Even in fantasy. some dt•gn.'e of reality Ill present. and the way in which .l~unes meets his aunts should explain this statement to those who do not wish theprentise to he giv<tn away here. The visual effects do impress, of course .• and cventh~ughstop-motionanimation is hardly the \newthing these days, the im- ages of the giant peach sailing across the ocean arc marvelous. Shots of a lonely James on top ofthe sailing . .peach' with a clear sky at night in the background draw out a sense oflost childhood fantasy. This gets spoiled by a truly silly rnusical num~ her (there are several throughoutthe filrn) by R:andy Newman, who composed the film''s score and songs. When .this dancetest abo;:trd the peach bursts into a btmch of images and memories moving across the sky. it's time to take a step back and wonder whatthe ·filmmakers were get- ting at. Newman's songs redefine \awk• ward.'' The lyrics do not bring out any more purpose to these talking bugs, and they seem like first drafts of songs from other Disney ntms. Only the first song, sungby James in his sheltered room, works. While the lyrics are simple in the extreme (the basic line reads something like \My names is .James. and I want to go far away,\) it's good that Newman did nottry to have a young boy sing of complex feelings of loneliness. These are the words of a youth. On a final. note is an underwater battle sequence featuring a guest appearance by Jack Skelligton, the hero.of1he Nightmare Before Christmas. Again, fantasy needs somen;ality to work: how can James swim underwater and battle bad guys for five minutes without a breath of air? The film . ends up being big on dazzle and short on a genuine sense of wonder. TV Time: Letterman, Leno and the Late Night War by Lawrence Paska Arts Editor I think I am not alone in expressing my thoughts that David Letterman is getting old fast. The Late Show with David Leiterman (CBS, Weeknights, ll :35 PM- 12:35 AM) is getting progressively worse. I think the change started after Letterman's horrible stint as Oscar host last March. Since then, he has fallen from his high perch both in the ratings and in popular appeal. True, his show still commands a sizable au- dience. tickets for his shows ate gone months in advance, and people visit such eateries as the Hello Deli, but this is simply because Letterman made the deli a phenom- enon. I watch The Late Show almost every night, not because I think Letterman is bet· ter than Leno, but because I am really curi- ous to see just how bad the show will turn out. Imagine: this guy gets $15 million a year to deliver someone else's lines and jokes! On the other hand, I have to pay $27 ,000-plus a year just to be able to write this column! Forthatmatter, Letterman's joke-writers are not particularly funny people. A recent Top Ten Iiston \Top Ten Signs Your Relative is the Unabomber\was funny, but their timing was a little inappro· priate. (Let it rest a day!) In the past week, however, no joke, no trick, no camera angle is complete without a reference to the Unabomber, much as O.J. Simpson kept Letterman'sjokesafloatall last year. Come on, scriptwriters, think of something inven- tive and hysterical! Come on, Letterman, earn your inflated salary .. don 'tjust he an- other celebrity on the TV screen! Another reason f am still drawn to The Late Show even though I am disappointed hy it on a nightly basis is the Top Ten List. Lcttennan single-handedly made Top Ten Lists a craze: right now, Capital Region radio station K 100 is promoting itself by parodying Leltcnnan with a \Top Six Rca- sons to Listen to K lOO.\ While recent lists on the show have hccn going for a cheap laugh (often unamusing) instead of the gut, such I ists have become such a re- quirement of our late-night comedy that it becomes important to hold on, hoping things will get better. Why is The Tonight Show(NBC, Week- nights, 11:35 PM-12:35 AM) doing better in the ratings? Because when Letterman fell from his height of glory back in March 1995. Leno played his act straight, changed very little, and people soon realized that the ones on top cannot remain there for- ever. However, I would argue that even though Leno 's is the more-watched pro- gram, Lcttennan is still the talk oflate-night conversations. Now, instead ofexdaiming \Did you sec letterman last night?! It was so funny!,\ people are apt to ptocfaim to their friends, \ Boy, did you see how hor- rible Letterman was last night? He's really gown downhill!\ Yet no one talks about Leno 's show much; many people watch it, hut few actually suggest he is improving or that he is (or has been) far superior to Letterman. In his small way, Leno is prob- ably the better host, but Letterman is the better showman. Hchastumed his fall from grace inside out, making a mockery of it personally and thereby letting his fans laugh at him without actually hurting him. Leno certainly knows how to interview guesl<; better; Lettcnnan' s chats with celebs rc\ cal little about his guests except the fact that they just finished a new movie, or they arc expecting a child, etc. Leno and his guests entertain each other and the audi- ence simultaneously. But. once more. we cannot help but be drawn to Letterman's own stamina. He presents such enthusi- asm over such a lousy talk show tliat we cannot help but keep tuning in to it. What new adventure will he stage for us on the ~trcets of New York? What bystander will he pluck from 53rd Street and take a photo with on his stage? And the final question: why did CBS just spend $4 million to revamp the set of The Late Show? How could so much money be spent on cardboard cutouts of the New York skyline. The bridges look I ike something off of an abandoned train set. It's little surprise the network is hav- ing difficulties, and sadder still that Letterman pretty much remains CBS' big dmw. Ratings: Tire Late Slww: C- The Tonight Show: B 1028 University Place, Schenectady, NY 12308 Aparttncnt 1 Apt 2 !Number of Rooms Number of Bedrooms Utilities Included in Rent Pets 7 7 3 3 No No No No Security Deposit $750.00 $750.00 ... ca'\e I yr. 1 yr . Availability Date ')istancc from Union 4/1/96 I Block 7/l/96 I Block Call Kathy Aunkst- Work 474-9615 !lome: 674-5820 APARTMENTS I HOUSES 96-97 •3, 4, 6, or 7 Bedrooms •All Appliances Washer Dryer •Carpet - Furniture - Parking •Energy Efficient· Remodeled 'fclephonc/ Computer/ Cable Ready Call: 370-5498

Arts & E~tertaitlment. ·Video Pick of the Week: Ace Ventura:· When Nature Calls .by Lawrence Paska Arts EdittJr \Ace Ve.ntura: When· Nature Calls. \ Starring Jim Carrey. Directed by Steve Odekerk. Rated PG~13, Warner /lome Video, Tape: $22.99(sugg.retaii).Disc: $34.99 (sugg. retail). Asafihn,Ace Ventura2isprobahlyonc oftheworst thingseverphotogr~phed. Not only is' it foul, lame, a.nd completely taste- , less, it also manages to offend just about everyone with an IQ above 40.. As an hout-and .. a-halfmind-killer. Ace Ventura 2 is ptobablyth.e funniest way to pass time ir.r quite a while, since .. . Ace Ventura I, shall we say. A bigger-budgeted follow-up to the origi- nal; Ace Ventura .?grossed over $30 mil- lion more than its predecessor .in theaters. an amazing feat c<msideting that most se- quels make halfthe money and cost twice as much as the first. And although. both films are not acclaimed for-thcirart,.housc appeal, this sequel survives only on the strength of its crude jokes. in which Carrey's Ace rnanages to touch on every subject from deflowering tribal virgins to flatulence. Ace travels to Africa to locate a rn issing animal, the symbol ofa tribe which is go- ing to die ifthe precious relic is not found. Of course, the plot is as thick as this one- line synopsis, ~aving the wav for Ace to spend the film's 94-minute running time singing \Chitty Chitty, Bang, Bang~· while driving a Range Rover and talking out of his butt (literally). Even the film's title should suggest to you the type of humor prevalent throughout. Fortunately, Carrey, who is able to con- tort his tbcial expressions in a million dif- ferent poses, is so lively and active that he keeps the momentum going even when the wicked humortakesa hack scat tollufTdia- loguc. The opening sequence- a parody of the sky-high rescue which opens Cliffhanger-· . is the most hilarious mo- mentin the entire movie, as Carrey is dan• glinginrnid-air, trying to save a raccoon. This is the kind of stupid humoryou laugh at well beyond into the next scene. Other- wise, what follows is mostly ofTcnsivcma- terial, with Ace taking shots at the tribal culture, insinuating just how \primitive\ the culture is. As always. American audi- ences take delight in laughing'at the white man \civilizing\ such a society, and learn- Ing a few tn ings about nature on his own. But, for a cheap night's humor. your best bet istoplaythc\Acc.\ No intelligence is required prior to viewing, and Carrey's movies seem to be the best antidote for a boring evening. Hopefully, his new movie, Cable Guy (getting installed in theaters June 14 ). will test Carrey's abilities a little more. Anyone can make ape sounds from their rear; a true actor docsn'tdo it twice. •Ratin~: ** CDC Updates ••• On-Campus Recruiting Reminders: · . . •Teach For ADlerica - CC204 & CC205, Thursday, Aprill8 •Entertainme11t Publications Info Session -Open to all stu- . dents. Wednesday Aprill7, 7 pm @ the CDC. A leading pub- lisher of directoties that provide savings on dining, travel and leisure activities will discuss their Sales/Marketing Training Program. . . •Entertainme11t Publications Interviews - Thursday, April18 •Resume Deadline for Net Daemons - Friday, April19 Jennifer Rogers '91 - Gravity Graphics Deadline extended to Aprill9, interviews April 23. Position for Contract Sales Workshops & Events ~Resume Writing.• 4 pm, Thursday,April18 •Web Workshops- Tuesday,April23, 4 & 7 pm, Steinmetz 110 •Interviewing Workshop - 4 pm, Thursday, April24 eGrad School Application Video - 7 pm, April24 Internship. Opportunities •Want a campus sumrner job? Come work for the CDC! Applications are available at the CDC; Resum.e and cover letter are optional. Deadline for candidates is Fridav. Mav 3rd bw S om. .. , Rich Lee and Allie It irchman with Your Mama opened along with the Coal Palace Kings for Far Cry. Photo by Laurel T. Ruma 'mire Cl!oncorbicnssis • April 18, 1996 • Page 15 Local Arts Calendar This Week lliURSDAY,APRIL 18 Troy Chromatic Concerts proudly presents The Bach Choir of London as part of its 99th season. at the Troy .Savings Bank Music Hall, located at the comer of Second and State Streets in Troy at 8 PM. The Bach Choir of London was founded to give the first complete performance in England of J.S. Bach's Mass in B minor under Otto Golds~hmidt in 18?6, This . venture was so successful that the members decided to cont1nue. The object was, and remains, \the perfonnance of works of excellence of various ~chools,\ and a wide variety of music n·om the sixteenth century to the present day ts performe~. General admission tickets arc availahlc for $20 and students for $10 by calhng Troy Chromatic Concerts at 273-4122 or the Troy SavingsBank Music Hall Box Ofliceat 273-0038.- Bella Lewitzky ofthe Lewitzky Dance Company will give a lecture at 9:30 A~ in the Arts Building of Union College. with the location to be announced. All Umon classes arc welcome with reservations. TheEmpire.JazzOrchcstra presents Miles Ahead: TheMusicofGil Evans. featur- ing guest artist Lew Soloff on trumpet, at 8 PM in the Schenectady County Commu- nity College'sCommunity Auditorium, 78 Washington Avenue, Schenectady. Gen- . era I admission tickets arc$ 1 2, and $8 lor students. L imitedtickets are available at the door. FRIDAY,APRIL 19 /Jrother's Keeper(Amcrican, 1992, I 04 min., color) will be shown at 7:30PM in Page llall, 135 Western A venue. on the University at A.lb~ny's ~o~town.campus. The screening is sponsored hy the New York State Wnters Institute s Sprmg 1996 Classic Film Series and is lrce and open to the public. . This exceptional documelltary. directed by ,loc Berlinger and Bruce Sinofs~y, won top awards from the New York Fihn Critic's Circle, The National Bo~d ofRev1ew ~d the Sundance Film Festival. It is the true story of four eccentnc, elderly dairy- fanning brothers in upstate New York. the death of one, the arrest fo~ murder ~1 another and the town that rallied to the defense of the accused. Brothers Keeperh an intri~uing t~eatisc on human nature and the role of the media in controversial cases. For additional information,.contact The Writers Institute at442-5620. The Catholic Charities of the Diocese of Albany presents Stepping Out with Michael Feinstein at 8 PM at the Knickerbocker Arena in Albany. Feinstein is ll Grammy-nominated pianist and vocalist performing the popular and beloved mu~ic oflrving Berlin, George Gershwin. and other Broadway comp()sers. General admis- sion tickcts.are $20, For more inlbnnation, call Catholic Charities in Albany at 453- . 6650. Tickets arq also available through Ticketmast.er. SA1URDAY,APRIL20 . The Hudson Valley Writer Guild, New York State Writers Institu~, and S~ena College are sponsoring the third annual Regional Literary Arts Festtval at Stena. College's Alumni House from 11-5 and 7:30-9:00. Activities are free and open to the public. Anyone wishing to join a free worksh?P is encouraged to call the Writers Guild at 449-8069 to reserve space. Anyone w1th · questions can call Craig Hanc~ck at 442-5188 or 758-7738. Proctor's Theatre will host An Evening of Gilbert & Sullivan, a gala concert perfor-. mance oflight opera highlights, at 8 PM. The performance isa joint fund-raiser fot Proctor's and the Empire State Youth Orchestra (ESYO). The performance will include musical highlights from Gilbert and Sullivan's mos1 popular operettas, including \H.M.S. Pinafore,\'The Pirates ofPenzance,\ \The Mikado,\ \Rudigore\ and \The Gondoliers.\ The concert marks the ?ebut perfor- mance of the Empire State Philhannonic, a 45-member orchestra compnsed ofESYO alumni, many of whom are now professional musicians, and some current ESYO members. . In addition to the concert. a light dinner, catered by Michael's Catering, wtll be offered prior to the performance, with dessert and a silent auction following tht: event. , liekets for\An Evening with Gilbert & Sullivan ... are available at Proctor s Box Office at 346·6204. Tickets for the concert are only $15 each. The cost of~~ complete package of dinner, concert, and dessert/auctionis $60 per person. Specml rates are available for tables often. The Lewitsky Dance Company will perform at The EmpireCenter at TheEgg at 8 . 'PM. The company is schedtiled to disband after their 1996-97 season, so catch them while you can. For more information, call473-'1845. ( ..

' i 'l Final Schedule SPHJ:\G TEi{\11996 FI:\.\L EX.\:\1 SCIIEI>l'LE . . . TliESDAY,.rtiNE.JI, 19!)6-II:JQAM -l:JQPM Music History & Literature 2 Wilson, II. A. ARTS 215 AAII*O<>O*O I Contemporary Art & Architecture Everman • .C. ARTS 215 Language & Culture Brison, K. SSCI 012 ANT\'OJO*OI lntro to Cultural Anthropology Cool, L, HUMN 110 ' NT*Ol6*01 Prehistory Walker,.M. HUMN (ll9 ANT*012*02 Gender & Society Ometch, S. \' HUMN 116 'i 10*018*01 Biology 2 Tobiessen, P. SSCl 016 BIO*Oll*Ol Contemporary Biology Sch\dler M. BAIL 201 l 10*026*01 The Cell Smith/Salvo BUTR 204 BI0*046*01 Intto to Psychobiology Barke,. E. BAIL207 \ HM*182*01 Protein Structure & Fun;;tion Fox,K. STZH 108 BIO* 159*01 Plant Physiology Minorsky, P. BAJL 106 Basic Chinese 3 Xie, Y. NWSE 116 CER*OIO*Ol Intro to Communications Jewell, T. BUTR 109 LS*051*01 Seminar in Classical Studies Toher, M. HUMN 119 CER*B2*01 Reinforced Concrete Design 'Thab~t.W. NWSE 116 EC0\'017*01 US Economic Policy Klein, D. SSCII03 EC0\'043*01 Economic Growth & Developmen Mukherjee. J. SSCI 012 EER*04l*OI Electric Circuits Chang, Y. NWSE 201A ECO*I42*01 Problems in Macroeconomics Kwok, C. NWSE 114 ER\'066\'01 Control Systems Fatic, V. BAIL 201 EGL*046*01 Modem Drama Heinegg, P. Hl)MN 117 EGL*019*01 Major English Authors I Hilles, C. HUMN 112 ESC*015*01 Numerical Methods & C Langu~ge Almstead, L. NWSE201A Major American Authors Shour, N. HUMN 115 GE0\'050*01 Petrology Hollocher, J. BliTR20l Enlightenment & Romanticism Heinegg, P. HUMN 117 GE0*053\'01 Stmctural Geology Hollocher, J. BUTRJOO Energy I Shanebrook, J. NWSE 222 PHL*073\'01 Environmental Ethics Vitek, W. HUMN 112 Mechanics I Jones, E. BUTR 300 PSC*012*01 Intro International Politics Gilman, T. SSCI 112 Mechanics 2 Rivera, M. BUTR 109 PSC\'072*01 Environment, Energy & Politics Underwood, J. SSCI i03 Modern France/France actuelle Laparra, C. HUMN 014 PSY\'030*01 Personality Halpern, L, BAIL300 Geomorphology/Surfici~l Geo Rodbell, D. BUTR 201 PSY*031*01 Abnormal-Psychology Nydegger, R. BAIL 100 Prehistory: Walker, M. HUMN 019 PSY*046*01 Intro -to Psychobiology Barke, E. BAIL207 The Holocaust Berk, s. COLCAUD PSY\'047*01 lntro to Health Psychology Fletcher, B. BAIL .104 Intermediate Japanese 3 Wojnovich, M. SSCI 213 SOC*OlO\'OI Intro to Sociology Sawyer, P. SSCI014 Latin Reading Scullion, J. S HUMN 113 SOC*l68*01 Sex & Motherhood Grigsby, J. SSCIOIO Heat Transfer Analysis/Design Anderson, A.M. NWSE 210 WST*010\'02 Gender & Society Gmelch, S. IWMN 116 Probability Rosenthal, K. BAlL 104 WST*127*0l Sex & Motherhood Grigsby, J. SSCI 010 PHY*040\'01 Order & Chaos/Art & Magic Khosropour, R. NWSE 114 TUESDAY 1 JUNE 11 1 1996 -2:30PM -4:30pM PHY*056\'01 Intermediate Electromagnetism Schick, K. NWSE 328 AAH*035*01 Venetian Painting in ltl Renai Matthew, L. ARTS 215 PSC*011\'01 lntroto American Politics Brown, C. SSCI 104 ANT*075*01 Biology of Homosapiens Boyer,l. BAIL 102 Health Politics & Policy Weiner, T. ARTS 210 810\'075*01 Biology of Homosnpiens Boyer, J. BAIL 102 lntro to Psychology Greenberg, S. BAIL 312 CER*165\'01 Systems Analysis & Design Jones, E. BUTR 300 Social Psychology DeBono, K. BAIL207 ECO*Ol2*01 Introduction to Economics Schmidt,S. SSCI 104 SY\'034~01 Psychology of Language DAndrea, T. BAIL 106 EC0\'031*01 Microeconomic Analysis Yaisawamg, S. SSCI 103 OC*024*02 Social Psychology DeBono, K. BAIL 207 EGL*04.0\'0l World of the Bible Heinegg, P. SSCI 016 PN* 122*01 Advanced. Spanish Merediz, E. HUMN 116 FRN*l21*01 Intennediate French 2 · Leamon •. A. SSCI 105 PN*I35\'01 20th Century Spanish Theater Garcia, W. SSCI 014 FRN*l45\'01 Studies in the French Theater Gates,L. HUMN 113 QNDA Y JUNE 10 1996- I 1 :lOAM- 1:30PM GE0*170*01 Groundwater Geology/Hydrology Locke, S. I:IUTR 2Ql NT*015\'01 Intro to Archeology SSCI 110 GER*012*01 Basic German 3 · · Kellenter/Warde HU:MN2l3 ER*l70*01 Civil Engr Design Project BUTR 300 HST\'041\'01 Medieval Europe Sargent, S. NWSE 114 ER\'170\'02 Civil Engr Design Project BUTR 109 JPN\'OI2*01 Basic Japanese 3 Khan, Y: HUMN 110 Civil Engr Design Project BUTR 104 MTH*030\'01 Ordinary Differential Equation Seikeo, A. BAIL201 Organic Chemtstry 3 SWSE 332 PHL*015*01 Philosophy & Existential Lit Patrik, L. JWMN 115 Economy of China SSCI 105 PSY\'038\'01 Developmental Psychology Stanhope, L. liAIL 312 Literature of Middle Ages HUMN 110 RUS*012\'01 Basic Russia!) 3 Jord~n. B. HUMN 119 Greek Oratory SSCJ 012 SOC*158*01 Aging & ~ociety. Relyea, L. SSCI 112 Basic Italian 1 HUMN 116 SPN*011*01 Basic Spanish 2 Moyano. P. HUMN 117 SSCI 112 SPN\'122*02 Basic Spanish 2 Merediz, E. HUMN 114 SPN\'l40*01 Cervantes:Don Quijote Martinez, L. HUMN 116 Evolutionary Biology Boyer, J. SSCI 012 TUESDAY 1 :JUNE ll 1 1996~ 4:45PM-'(i:45PM Structural Steel Design Mafi, M. BUTR 109 cst•OI0*02 Computers & Computing Hedrick. J. STZH 106 Fundamental Chemistry I Weick, C. 9AIL 207. WEDNESDAY 1 JUNE 12 1 1996-8:30AM-10.:30AM HM\'OI2*01 Fundamental Chemistry 2 Lou, K. HUMN 117 AMU*030\'0I American Music· Olsen;T. ARTS 215 HM*012*02 Fundamental Chemistry 2 Hayes, D. BUTR 204 ANT\'067\'01 East Asian Development!S.ociety Reynolds, B. NWSE 114 HM*Ol6\'01 Inorganic Chemistry I Weick, C. STZH 108 EC0*012\'02 Introduction to Economics Schmidt, S.J. SSCI 014 Computers & Computing Almstead, L. STZH 1-06.· EC0\'914\'01 East Asian Dr::velopQlent!Society Reynolds, B. NWSE 114 Machine Org & Assembly Lang Hemmendinger,D NWSE 201A EER\'042\'01 System Theory I Chang, Y. NWSE201A Intro to Financial Analysis Kenney, J SSCI 103 HEB*012\'0J Basic Hebrew 3 Heckelman, D. SSCI110 Basic French 2 Gates, L. IIUMN 019 HST\'O 19*0 I Modern America:Depression/WWII Jonas, M. S$CI 104 Basic French 3 Laparra, C. HUMN 014 1-IST\'083 *0 I Mystics, Magic & Witchcraft Sargent, S. SSCI 012 Basic German 2 Warde, A. HUMN 213 ITL*OIO\'Ol Basic Italian I VanOrder, T. HUMN 115 The Second World War Era Hansen, E. SSCI t 12 LAT\'I45\'01 Cicero Loomis, W. HUMN 113 'East African Lang, Culture & Hst. Miller, AT. SSCI 014 MTH*057\'0l Game Theory Zwicker, W. BAIL 100 Thermodynamics Wicks, F. NWSE 210 MTH*OSS\'OI Appls of Math to Economics I Reynolds, P. BAIL 106 Geometry ofNature Frame, M. BAIL 100 PHL*OJS*OI Philosophy in America Ludwig, J. HUMN 114 TH*099\'0l Intro to Logic & ·Set Theory Taylor, A. BAIL 104 PSC*013*01 Intro to Political Thought Board, J. SSCI103 TH\'132*01 Abstract Algebra I Niefield, S. BAIL 102 PSC\'OI9*01 East Asian Development/Society Reynolds, B~ NWSE 114 TH*I34\'01 Differential Equations Bick, T. BAIL 106 .RUS*122*01 Advanced Russian Jordan, B. HUMN 119 PHL\'045\'0 I Ancient Theories of Art Patrik, L. HUMN 110 SOC*OIO*OJ lntro to Sociology Weiner, T. SSCI 112 HY\'-019\'01 General Physics 3 McWhirter, J. NWSE 114 SPN\'120*01 Intermediate Spanish 1 Merediz, E. HUMN 117 PSY*010*02 Intro to Psychology DAndrea, T. SSCI 104 SPN*130*01 Spanish & Latin American Lit Martinez,. V. HUMN 116 SY*024*01 Social Psychology DeBono, K. BAIL 312 WEDNESDAY, JUNE 11 1 1996-11 :JOAM- 1:30PM oc•o24•ot Social Psychology OeBono, K. BAIL 312 ACC\'OIO*Ol Survey of Accounting · Lewis, W. HUMN 110 Basic Spanish 3 Osuna, M. HUMN 114 ANT\'OI2*01 Gender & Society Gmelch, S. HUMN 116 Intermediate Spanish 2 Martinez, L. HUMN 115 ATH*OIO\'OI Speech Communication Rose, L. SSCI 016 Intermediate Spanish 2 Camacho, L. JIUMN 113 RI0*036\'0l Invertebrate Zoology Boyer. B. BAIL 106 PN\'I49*01 Special Topic:Spanish Amer Lit Garcia, W. HUMN 116 BJ0•046*02 fntro to Psychobiology Barke, E. BAIL 201 UESDAY JUNE 11 1996Q8:JOAM-10:30A.M CHM\'020\'01 Models and Molecules Werner, T. SWSE. 219 Gardens & Landscape Architectu Matthew, J..,. ARTS 215 CLS*030*01 Greek & Roman Tragedy in Trans Scullion, J. S HUMN 115 Molecular Genetics Horton, J. S. BAIL 102 CSC*037*01 Structured Programming Hannay, D. NWSE 116 Intro to Neurobiology Olberg, R. NWSE 116 EC0*020*0t Intro to Statistical Analysis Mukherjee, J. SSCI 112 Soil Mechanics Ghaly, A. BUTR 109 EC0*137\'01 Eco Perspectives on Pub Policy McCarty, T. BAIL 102 Environmental Engr 2 Snow, P. BUTR 300 EC0\'162*01 Seminar: Finance Burgman, T. SSCI 103 HM*040*01 Quantitative Chemistry Carroll, M. BAIL 104 EGL*021*01 Major English Authors 3 Frazier, A. HUMN 114 HM*152*01 Physical Chemistry 2 Anderson, J. BAIL 100 EGL\'076\'01 Modem American Novel Slade, L. HUMNOl4 LS\'025\'01 History of Rome Toher, M. HUMN 115 PSY*030\'02 Personality Spring, D. BAIL 312 LS*025\'02 History of Rome Loomis, W. HUMN 117 PSY*046*02 lntro to Psychobiology Barke, E. BAIL :201 C0\'042~01 Macroeconomic Theory & Policy Motahar, E. SSCII12 PSY\'048*01 Psychotherapy Halpern, L. BAIL 30() EGL\'022\'01 Major American Authors MacDonald, .B. HUMN 014 soc•oto*o2 lntro to Sociology Cotter, D. SSCI 104 IST*014*01 History of US Since Civil War Dudden, F. SSCI 014 WST\'OIO\'OJ Gender & Society Gmelch, S. HUMN 116 ST*014\'03 History of US Since Civil War Miller, A.T. SSCI 104 WEDNESDA Y 1 JUNE 11 1 1996 .. 2:30PM- 4:30PI\1 U.S. & the World: Early Years Jonas, M. SSCI 012 CE.R•O!l\'Ol Advanced Communications Jewell, T. BUTR 109 History of Europe 2 Berk, S. COLCAUD PHY*OIS*Ol Physics/Life Sciences I Maleki, s. HUMN 019 History of Europe 2 Walker, M. SSCI JOj PHY*015\'02 Physics/Life Sciences l Maleki, S. HUMN019 ST\'OSO\'OI Western Imperialism Hansen, E. SSCI 010 PHY*OIS*OI General Physics 2 Anderson, A. NWSE300 PN*132*01 Advanced Interm Japanese lii Khan, Y. HUMN019 PHY*OIB\'OJ General Physics 2 Jones, C. STZH 106 ER\'042\'0J Engineering Design 3 Bucinell, R. NWSE 222 PHY*018*04 General Physics 2 Rodriguez, G. NWSE 116 TH*019\'0J Linear Algebra!Comp Var/Engrs Zwicker, W. BAIL 201 THURSDAYzJUNE 13 1 f996-8:30AM- JO:JOAM TH\'088*01 Programming with Mathematica Fairchild/Seiken BAIL 106 MTH*Ol2\'0I Calculus 2 Niefield, S. BAIL 100 HY*04)\'01 The Solar System Marr, J.M. NWSE 112 MTH*Ot5\'01 Calculus 3 Fairchild. W. BAIL 102 SC*055*01 Defense Policy Brown, C. HVMN 112 MTH*015*02 Calculus 3 Sauerberg, 'J. BAIL 106 SY\'020*01 Statistical Methods/Psychology Stanhope, L. BAILJOO MTH*OI7•01 Calculus JV:Jntegral Vector Frame, M. BAIL 104

Personals and Classified$ -When you sec a soul \llltaintcd by Union's corruption leave it be, because all you can say is \chug\ Anand- Thank you f(lr all of your hclp- Stcph- You arc doing a great jc>)b .... Keep up the good work -To Yaddy; keep your spirits hi!.!;h. you the best fiend anyone could ask for!-Acc So shut up. ·1· o· · u·Goo\ r> •. k · · o ave . . . tn ;OWJtz ... Keep -PR: pbhb smooch duck! -Congratulations to the sisters of Sigma Delta Tau!!!!!!!! it up my cynie~l friend ... -Congratulations to all students and -ToAce- Kee;:> up the good work. You have learned much over the past two weeks, and your partner- ship is invaluable-Tony Bumbling Bozo the Blond: Go some- where clsc .. J'm drunk and you're singing songs ... Thc Sillcnccr SEDITOIL.You'rc a life saver ... I think we'll keep you a while. faculty participating in NCUR 1996! Your hard work is an example to us all! -A. rnse to student activities f(lr lligh Tea at the NoH! We may finally get sophisticated. Steven C. Schnitzer, Esq. Crowell & Moring, Washington, D.C. Touro /;aw Center, ·Class of 1988 300 Nassau Road Huntington, l,.ong Island, NY 11743 516-421-2244 Ext. 312 • 516-421-2675 fax http://www.tourolaw.edu TDD/ITY: 516-421-0476 Juris Doctor degree LL.M for foreign layweT'S FulVpart-time, day/evening programs Crosstalk! \My education at Touro Law Center provided me with just what I needed~ a supportiv.e environment where I had access to other students, faculty members, even. the Dean, and a superior grounding in both the theory and practice oflaw. \As Editor-incChief of The Touro Law Review, I was well prepared to go right to work. The demands of Law Review were commensurate with the demands q.f a large law firm.\ Touro's unique student-centered culture offers a legal education in an atmosphere of mutual respect, cooper- ation, and collaboration. Faculty are committed to professional develop- ment and excellence in teaching. Touro graduates, like Steven Schnitzer, are well prepared when they venture into the practice of law in today's competitive and ever-changing legal environment. practice la.w · .. absolutely.\ Preparing sludents lor real·world practice-. Are (I a Racist? Thursday, April 18, 7 pm at Chet's. \The hottes places in hell are reserved for those who, in times of crisis, have no opinion.' --Dante • f!}igb tn:ea at W:be ~ott Every Wednesday from 3:30 to 4:15 pm. Featuring free tee and cookies, all are welcome. Student Activities Update: -A thorn to people who don't make and effort! -A rose to the faculty for helping us rise to our potential! -Tony: let's keep it up! We are crazy, but isn't it great! -Marley, catch a tennis ball on me! Love. Frein a -Fradkin: you need to spend more time here! It's theraputic, we . I prom1se. -Gillybaroo: you're the best, so keep your chin up when things get down! -Duncan: Toby's wel- come anytime, but I'd rathedrave you! -To faithful Concordy roommates, do you want to join the fun? -Maria: thanks fbr be- ing the greatest room- mate in the world!- Cathy -Malibu: Glad to have you as a friend! -CT -Lins: You're the best for bearing with my late nights and early morn- ings! -To the Girls on Oakdale, send some mail!-t\cc -The greatest parents in the world (you know who you arc), thanks for being so much fun to love! -Andy, thank you for leaving the room before you put your deodorant on; it means a lot to me.! -Josh: you're the only one who hasn't joined us! Time is ticking away! -Pete: even though I rag on you all the time I still love you! -T.T.: Even though I seem to hang out with you I still think you Stink ... - Lea: I miss Greece! When are we going back! Adrian -To all the girls, take Washington by stonn! Love the sisters of Gamma Phi Beta -Lauren, I miss our fruit market,a and Garth Brooks in the morning! Good luck this tenn. -Scullian: What would we do with- out your cinnical, sarcastic wit around here? -To Professor Toher: thanks for mak- ing our term abroad a blast! You helped make it fun and educational! -To Beth: I love you! Good luck in your races this weekend! Love, Josh -To the Token Socialist: We'll have to go to the Chinese Buffet again- E. C. Two the copie Ediots .. wE cant funtion withot you guys .. Thanks. • TGIFthisFriday,Aprill9, 1996, 4-7. TACO BAR \C\~ION I (' WR'k\) \T\l.'t\ ftltlty .., MIWI-~ION ($ Wm<$) ~~1'\ JIINC' IO \C\\ION t. (' ~) \'MLT\ )'IC-y I Applications for Orientation Advisors Are available atthe Reamer Campus Center: Information Booth or Dean of Students Office- Room 306 Completed applications are due in the Dean of Students Office by: Wednesday,April24, 1996 at 10:00 am. Please sign up for an interview appointment when you tum in your application 1\01. (OI'o\fUT't' INf\OU.\M'tON _, CltU- j•loo-?2+\\\IIMMQ. (7'\). .. . ..

I I I ·( I \ by Greg Kalish Staff Writer Eight years ago, the New York Rangers were on the verge of completing a late season run that put them in the playoffs. They had spent much ofthe season in last place of the now defunct Jlatrick Division, hut following a late sea- son string of success, put them- selves in striking distance for a playoff spot on the season's final night. A Ranger win combined with anything other than a Devil win and the Rangers were in the playoffs. That night, the Blueshirts hosted the Nord iques and the Devils were in Chicago. The Rangers took care of busi- ness on their end, shutting out the Nordique by a score of 3-0. The late start time in Chicago al- lowed the team to gather around MUSIC! MUSIC! ana more MUSICJ· Li-ve Shows Just In! CD & TAPE RANCID-HOOTIE PEARL JAM- TORI LiVE- ETHER.ID(JE BUSH H RAMONES PORNOFORPYROS . PHISH- DEAD DA VB MATTHEWS BJORK- BEASTIES and lots more -·· the locker room tdcvi~inn set and watch as their playoff lives hung in the halance. The game in, Chi- eagg wc1tt to overtime. Midway thnnigh the extra session, .John MacLean wristedthcpuck into the Chicago net, giving the Devils their nrst ever playoff berth and subsequently eliminating the Rangers. This past Friday night, the Rangers finally got their revenge, although the circumstances were not all the same. The Devils. the defending Stanley Cup chainpi~ ons, needed a Lightening loss to keep thci r playofThopcs alive. The Lightening were visiting the Rang~ ers at MSG. In an eerie and ironic twist, Devil fans were actually openly rooting for the Rangers. Devil goalie Martin Brodeur led a \I ,ct's Go Rangers!\ chant in the Devils' locker room allcr practice. Meanwhile, to add to the, confu- sion and the strangeness, this was one game where Ranger fans were not clamoring for a win. It would he okay for the Rangers to lose this game. The Garden fans would rather sec the Devils el imina ted. The Rangers opened the scor- ing early in the first period and some boos could actually be heard cascading down from what once were the infamous blue seats. When Tampa tied the game at one. fans cheered. With the contest tied at two late in the third, Tampa scored the go-ahead goal with less than Jive minutes to go, a goal which eventually proved to be the game winner. While a Lightning loss would nothaveofficiallyelimi- imtc<J the I >evils, it was q ui~c ap- parent that many of the MSG faithful were less than disap- pointed with this I oss. The Devils would take camofthc official busi- ness the following afternoon, with a 5-2 loss to Ottawa. Just one year allcr th~ Rangers almost hccmne the first tenm i!l nearly two decades to miss the playoffs after winning the Stanley Cup the year befhre. the Devils have accmnpl ished that lent, not done since the 1977 Canadiens. Jacques Lemaire holds the dubi- ous distinction ofbcing members ofboth thgsctcams.llad the Dev- ils made the playoffs, they prob- ably would have immediately he.,. come one of the favorites to come out of the East, given that their defensive style suits the way the game tends to he played during the playoffs. Instead, it will he the I ,ightning getting their first crack at playing f()rLord Stm1lcy'sCup. Again, tbe circumstances in 1996 arc not the same as I 988. yet it is just another rem indcr of the old and overused saying, \what goes around come around.\ The John MacLean goal in 1988 could he considered the tire-starter as far as the Rangers-Devils rivalry is concerned. And while one could never expect any profes- sional athlete to admit that they tried not to win, I am sure that some ofthc Ranger players who have been around for a while and fought the wars against the Dev- ils arc none too disheartened that they will not have to meet the pitchforks in the playoffs. 'mlft Cltonco.rbicnsis • April 18, 1996 • Page 18 Women ·Ruggers Up:set State Char.npions, by Kiln Sanabia Ctmcqrdimsis Staff Yes! Those women ruggcrs are back again trying to maintain their .undefeated fall season record. This past Saturday, 2.9 bead wearing beauties headed to Albany to play the state cham:ps in a game of sweet revenge. Coaches at hand, the impressive A~side took the field and the lhn began. The first half was a brutal:cne for Union's women. Alhany came outa~kickin' anda-sratchin,but it to no avaiL The serum was Just too good. With the Rugby ~ods on their side, the serum, consisting of vets and rookies, rucked and mauled over the Albany pitch causing much anger in th~ ooh so pleasant ladies('?) of SUNY Albany. This pack of Joe's friends consisted of Kate \please stop the game 3 l lost my contact\ McCullough, .Julie \the track transfer\ Firman, Laura \the most experienced hooker ()n the team\ Cin.md, Courtney \large!'lt con~ tributor to the fine-master fund'' Brem, and Andrea ''I'm hearing sounds from above\ Schulman, Beth \hold oil while l go get my · bandana\ Wheat, Laurel \blue-gloved rookie\ Salzman, and Naomi \wearer of the broke!~ Orpheus beads\ Hare I. (that deserves a .25 fine!) The: game seemed to be stuck at the center ofthepitch until late in the first half when Kim \Truck \Sanabia was stole a pass from Alhany'salre~tdy hurtin' insideccnterandtruckedlik~ a truck should to score the f1rst and,only try ofthe game, (Yes, Unlon~s devastating defense held those Albuny ruggers from entering the · . sacred try zone) Sara\ I'd rathertun through girls much larger than myscll: than around them\ Gower completed the conversion for another 2 points. Surprise! Surprise! Along side ofSanabia,Union's line had an awesome d,isplay of skill and aggression that left AI• bany baffled. The line consisted ofTiffany Lussier atscmmhalf, Sara Gower, \Truck\,Jen \thenljustwori'tgodown\I,.el~ts, who was the target ofmany Albany attacks, and $till survived, Melisa Chakin and Debbie Spaulding as the.almighty wings, and Wendy \I just want some action back here\ Stephenson at fullback The · second seemed to be an endless battle against an increasingly bitter Albany team and biased referee who frantically left tile pitch quite soon after the game was over. The Union Women R'tlggers managed to come away with the well deserved 7-0 victory, and countless bumps. bruises, scratches, aches, pains, but mo bite · marks!! Quite impressive. Not only did the A-side hand Albany lovely defeat, Union's KillerS's. made up mostly of first or second season rookies playing in unheard of positions (ie. AhnyaMendes defected from the serum to the all impressive back field) tied Albany's hurtin' A- side in a 2nd match. with the Union try scored by Sara Gower from ..----\-------------------~-----.. the serum halfposition. Surprise! Surprise! the b-sideconsistedof LOSE 20 POUNDS IN TWO WEEKS! Shalini \the up and com-ing hooker\ Soon, Rachel \I only look nice\ Piro, Alana •iaJwayssmilin' for some reason\ Cooper, Noelle Somers at flanker, Heather Daly, Lauren \maybe ifl close my eyes, they'll go away\ Locke. Betsy ''I'm soo proud of my big bruise\ · Butterfield. Carol Case. Kathy Walter, Daniela \clean clock\Chiulli Lindsay Dulm, Ahnya Mendes, and a few fill-ins-from theA-side game. Famous U.S. Women's Alpine Ski Team Diet Congratulations Ruggers on an excellent season opener! II! Next weekend. the wome11 are traveling to Princeton, to attempt a scrim- During the non-snowoffseasonthe U.S. Women's Alpine mage against national champs, so tune in next week to see who . Team members used the \Ski Team\ dieqo lose 20 pounds r.--:: 111 :=ak::.:e=s..:.:it:.:b=ac::.:k;.:..! ------:~.......-- ....... ----------' in two weeks. That's right- 20 pound\ in 14 days! The basis diet is chemical food action and was devised by a famous Colorado physician especially for the U.S. Ski Team. Normal energy is maintained (vety important!) while reducing. You keep \full\ - no starvation -because the di~t is designed that · way. It's a diet that is easy to follow whether you w~rk, travel stayath'?rne. (For men, too!) This is, honestly, a fantastically successful diet. If it weren't, the U.S. Women's Alpine Ski Team wouldn't be IPeJrmt1tted to use it! Right? So, give yourself the same break the .S. Ski Team gets. Lose weight the scientific, proven way. if you've tried all the other diets, you owe it to yourself to tzy the U.S. Women's Alpine Ski Diet. That is,ifyou really do. want to lose 20 pounds in two weeks. Order today! Tearthis out as a reminder. Send only $8.95 ($9 .60 in Calif.) - add .50 cents u.\ ..... , ......... service to: American Institute, 7343 ElC~ino Real, Suite 206, Atascadero, CA 93422. Don't ordenmless you expect to lose 20 pound~ in two weeks! Because that's what u•~- ........ Team Dietwili do. Women's Lacrosse 4/19-@ RPI4:00 4120-@ Skidmore 2:00 4/23- HARTWICK3 :30 . Men's Lacrosse 4/19-@SLU3:30 4/20- @Ciarkson2:00 4123-@ Albany 3:30 Track 4/20 -(iil, Alhany Jnvy I 0:00 Baseball 4!20- ROCHESTER 1:00 4/21- RIT I :00 4/23 \'J\LBANY 2:00 SoftbaH 4/20 .. SKJDMORE 1 :OC> 4/2l- BINGHAMTON 3:00 4125 -@Albany 3:00 · Tennis 4/19- @Vassar 4:00 4/22 - @ Skidmore 3:30 4/24- HAMILTON 3:00 ·., ' i, i ~. ! 'f., ,. .. !. ~' ,. ' t' .J ' ; .

'I., l' ' r ' •I ' ~ Page 19 • April 18, l996 • . ij}JI~· C!Inucnrbiettsis Men's and Women's Track and Field Shine at UCAA Confer.en-c·e Meet Despite Rain· by Mike Leding . Staf!Writer atimeoflO:Sl.S. The women were also missing two of their top pcrfotmers in Kathy Coach Aldo Nardiello prontised B!,igdcn,'who w.as\sick\, and sunshine aod temperatures. in the l,i~da S,cymour. who had a upper 60 degrees; he lied. prior commitment. As the team arrived at Rf>lfbrthc The 4X800 meter relay . UCAA meet, they were doomed . team ofMike Leding, Shuron with an overcast sky wl1 ich Morton, Jason Jennings, and turned into freezing rain by relay Dave Riggi placed second in time. Despite the unfriendly run- a time of 43.7 seconds to start ning conditions, the men and off the scoring. In the 1500 women were able to qualify some meters,· Pete Flynn lost hy a people for States and also able to second to a Hfth year senior see some people run their personal· from St. Lawrence in a time goals. Out ofthe four team fields. of 4:07.70 placing second and the wotnen finished last behind qualifying himself for States. RPI, St. Lawrence, and Hamilton. Jay Goldberg ran a smart race whom all had more women corn-· to place in fourth in a Hme of petitors, and the men finished 4:20.27. In the longjmnp the third behind RPl and St. man -of many events, Jason Lawrence, whom they defeated Jennings, placed second with at Indoor States, and ahead of a distance of 5.75 meters and Hamilton, whom they lost to last Rid1. Ling got fourth travel- week in a dual meet. The top four . ing 5 .61. meters. Dave Riggi in every event scored. placed second in. ~he I 00 Wond~r \freshwoman\ Danielle . meters in .a time of 11.0 I sec- Steelt;,·who hogged the back seat qmls and -second in. the 200 in the back of the bus which she meters in a time.of22.67 sec- will pay for, l!Jlac.ed_third. in the onds. Mike Lcding won the long Jump' with a leap of 4.65 400 meters in .a personal best meteJ:S and second· in .the I 00 : time·of @.77 seconds·,: quali- · meter high hurdles in a time of · fyjng himselffor States. Mike 17.07 secohds.:AJsophicing in the- Marti1n placed fourth -in· the longjump was Autumn Renn with trip-le jtlmlJ' traveling 12.04 aTe·ap of'4:S9 ·mefers. ( .. A:il.tifmn :·· n1ctef5f'Wt'tlt «'l'lep, skip, and also· won tile iripl'e· jump 1 with. a · n· jump: ·Pete 'Flynn C'ame up distance of 9.99'-meters, becoh1- . ·s11t>rt ag~in'to·lhe same man ing -the ~omti:J\s: ohly OCAA. ' from• st. L'awrend: in the'soo ~.. ' .. ' . \ \1 ,... . t ., . ~ • • \' .. ' cha'mpion. :'In·. the hamfliet, _ meters, this tlrnc. by onfy'O.QS finally getting his name into an article. he 'II never read because he goes to Albany Pharmacy College. Matt Johnsonwon the j.avcl·in with a toss of 55.88 meters. Then the relays came and the flood gates opened, the 4X800 meter relay tcamofNick Conway, Mike Lcding, Jason Jennings, and Pete Flynn lost a race they should have never lost by one second, placing second to RPI in a time of3:30.2. The team is going to mix so·me things up when they run again at the RPI dualmect, and RUSS STRAM: we need you back healthy as soon as possible. Then Leding, Conway, and Flynn had tq rebound I 5 min- utes later to run the 4X800 meter relay in even colder rain. Jay Gol.dberg ran lead off sub- bing in for Seth Rudin. who was sunning in Florida, and ran mas- terfully. Ceding handed to Conway who handed to Flynn in first, but Flynn's nemesis IJ·om St. Lawrence was running anchor and quickly overtook Pete. Pete laid back, played off him, and smoked him at the end ·to place first and get a little re- ·t yenge for hJmself. Tl]c team ei,ld,e.d .up running a time :of .8': ~.7.7. ' . ' . This weekend Union travels to Albany tor a Division _II invi- tational, so the competition should be fast and it should make Sports Mens La.crosse : off to Great Start by Stacey Kimmel Cmttrihuting Writer The mens lacrosse team be- gan this past weekend with a vil:tory over Skidmore College on Friday by a score of 17-6 . Dave Parrot played an excellent game. scoring several goals for the Dutchmen. Saturday, how- ever, was not as successful . as they were defeated hy RPI f()r the lirst time in eleven years hy a score of 9-6. Sunil Schneider had a fabulous game and put forth what one team- mate called a \valiant effort\. During the second -half the de- tense stepped up, only allowing two goals, while the offense scored four times. The Dutchmens record now stands at 1-4 after suffering losses to Middlebury (5..:15), Hartwick (5-10), and Oswego earlier this past week. Captains Eric Williams and Scott Porter lead a team of talented athletes and show great leadership on and off the field. The Dutch- men will be away this coming weekend, traveling to St. Lawrence on Friday and Clarkson on Saturday. Come out and show your support. ONSISTEONILY ;, . MAKING GOOD , NUMe>E:R. S DEIV\fiNDS ir.l E.X:CELLENT R,ECOVER.Y , PLAy AROUND 'THE:' GREENS. TWO !BASIC RvLe:9 FOR N\O.ST PITCH ANO CHIP SHOTS WILL HE:L..P YOU IN THAI RSGARD. Mid\elie~Woociwatdplacedfdurth~ 'seconds in a tim~·dr i:s1:29, wi.ti:i a throw 9f'27.'84 ·m~'ters::·' '4lnd N~ckLConway. n·nished Rotindipg-~uJ \he sc~ring for the· ··:righf\~n· th~ir :~~ars (Qr 'iJ1ird women ~as'the' 4X800.mete·;· re-: i~ a time of t':57.37, whi~h is lay team ofJes.si~a Goveia, MQIIY.. . a p~rsonal· b~st .for him. Joe Hood,. Ameli a Audette, , a_l)d .. Burc7,:x.n~kplat;ed fou.rt~ in t6c Heather Leet, ~ho pl~ced third in· · 200 meters in a time ofl4.25, our times even faster. Good luck .. : . cvery6nc:as.theypracn'ce in th~s dreary weather as they head to '•• ' Albany onto their way o.f hav- . ing total autonomy oyer an the competition at States. 20% Off Any one Gift or Book sorry .... Special Orders Excluded . The O~.Door. · Boof~tore; & Gift Gafkry A Locally Owrr.ed independent Bookstore Since 1971 128 Jay Street • 'Dowtjtown Schenectady • (518) 346·2719 Do .You Want ·VISA & Masterca.rd Credit Cards? ... · s. IMC·· SERV\CE , . . . . STAN SMITH'S TENNIS.-GLASS· · · · - : ~; 'ilpj.ro~iih\!J@(];Jl,f3f2~~. ,;_~:, , ·. -~i'. :·~===.:~:::~ When you are playing a \dinker\ be aggressive. When your opponent hits a soft, floating ball, move forward and take it in the air as a volley and move toward the net. Even if you have to hit a difficult shot in order to move to 1he l*~i==1==#==9=1 net, as long as you hit it deep in the opponent's court, you will put pressure on him and often force -

,, t ' . !' . \ . . [ . ' April 18, 1996 PAGE20 Union Baseball Defeats Hartwick, Ends Losing Streak by Christopher Leone Staff Writer This past weekend the Union College b~seball team was able to put an end to a f~utgame los- ing streak by playing through the cold, rainy elements that would eventually cancel three of the four games that were sched- uled. On Saturday, Union sent sophomore Josh Soldo to the mound to battle Hartwick in the first game of a scheduled double- header at Central Park in Schenectady. By the fifth inning, the team had worked hard to build a comfortable four run lead. Union's ability to score early was the product oftimely hits coupled with five Hartwick errors. Ryan Smith led the offen- sive charge with two doubles, two RBis and a run scored. Com- ing into the sixth inning, Soldo was in the middle of a masterful pitching performance. Hartwick had only been able to touch Soldo for three hits and one un- earned run. The momentum that Union had built through the previous five innings wou'id quickly shift back and forth during the last two innings. Hartwick would goon to score three runs off Soldo in the sixth and then tie the game with two outs in the seventh. With the score tied at five, Union came to the plate in their half ofthe sev- enth and refused to let a victory slip away. Co-captain Jamie Haver reached base on a Hartwick error to start the seventh. Smith laid down.' a sacrifice bunt to move Haver to second with one out. Hartwick decided to intentionally walk Adam Meyers, with the hope that Jimmy Knight would hit into an inning ending double play. Knight wanted nothing to do with the oppositions strategy, and laced a single into center field. scoring I .laver and giv- ing Union the 6-5 victory. The vic· tory allowed freshman Richard Nespola ( 1-0), who pitched the sev- ei'lth inning in rdicf ofSoldo, .to pick up his first collegiate victory and move the overall team record to 6~ 8. Due to the rain, the second game ef the double header was canceled after the first half inning of play. Despite the bad weather and only playing one game, Coach Reynolds was pleased with the team's ability \to take advantage of their [Hartwick's] miscues, and beat one of the stronger programs in the state.\ The Dutchmen wil·l have three tough challenges at home this week as they take on Hamilton mi Wednesday, with Rochester and RJT scheduled for the weekend. Right: Senior Captain Jamie Haver TtJund.v thirtlon his way to home base. (pl1otuby Laurel RumaflC) Women's Lacrosse Has Tough Road Trip by Aaron Sicotte Sports Writer At the beginning oflast week. the women's lacrosse team faced the daunt- nating team. ,The defense played outstanding, shutting down the ex- plosive Middlebury offense. Union's offense was led by a great pcrfonnance from Alison Williams, to back road trips, as well as the miserable weather, put Union in a tough position against a power- ful llamilton team, and they suf- fered a diffi- ing task of having to play both Middlebury a n d Hamilton on the road. Both of these teams are in the upper echelon of Division Ill women's )aero sse teams. On Thursday, Union trav- elled to Middlebury hoping to avenge last Tit is weekend Men's Lacrosse won against Skidmore and lost toR. P.I. (file.plloto/TC) year's 16-9 ----------------------------- ....... -------- loss. While they did not quite accomplish this feat, a Lauren Pastor goal as the game drew to a close ended the contest with a 15-9 Union loss. Although it was technically a defeat, it was a moral victory for Union against a dom i- who scored two goals in the game. During the rain on Saturday, the Dutchmen did not fare so well against a dominating Hamilton op- ponent. When the game was called early due to inclement weather, Hamiltonwasahead J 5-0. The back cult loss. The women 1 s lacrosse team looks to turn their fortune around with games at Rf>l and Skidmore before they return home for n hattie against Hartwick on April 23rd. Dutchmen Tennis Opens with Win byJonathan Gasthalter Staff Writer The Union College tennis team opened the season on Tues- day at home with a win against Utica. Under veteran Head Coach Rob Montana. the team hopes to have a strong season against Upstate Collegiate Athletic Association opponents RPI, Skidmore, Hamilton, and arch-rival Williams. Sophomore Vi.nod Dasa feels that the 1996 team will be ··\pretty competitive probably better than we have been in the past.\ Top players includejunior JeffKasowitz, sophomores Dasa, Jason Beckman, Steve Chin, and Jordan Pi!tsker, and · freshman Sudheer Potluri. The big test for the Dutchmen came April 13 as the team traveled to Hobart to compete in the Upstate Collegiate Ath- letic Association Tournament. The Dutchmen placed fifth out of eight teams, which was \exactly what they expected us to do.because that was our seeding coming into th~ touma- . ment,\ said Chin. · The Dutchmen will not make the play()ffs because as Chin said, \ln terms of records, we don't play enough matches to ·qualify for post-season play, ·so we just go meet by meet.\ The team is looking to improve within the conference and play well throughout the remainder ·ofthe season. Sopho- mores Beckman and Chin are leading the team as it competes against RPI on Tttesday, April16.

~ . nnrnr· t.ensts The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Volume CXXV, Number III Schenectady, New York April 25, 1996 Asian Student Union and Shakti Celebrate Culinary Expose Holocaust Surviver Speaks lllr ,,,. .... nl\\\\• and Sllevts SIITivastava at by Bhavani Meduri Writer .. Ute Third annual Culinary Ex- pose and Celebration of Asian and Indian Heritages took place this past Friday·and was consid- ered a smashing .success by those who came to watch the programs and enjoy the authentic cuisine. Upperclass Dining was trans- formed into something out of the ordinary with a black and red motif that was followed down to the flower arrangements which were huge sunflowers and gazanias. Japanese Lanterns and Indian vases served as visual rep~ resentations of the beauty in Asian and Indian cultures. The food was catered by local restaurants who were chosen by the members ofthe Asian Student Union (ASU) and Shakti, two stu- dent run clubs that co-presented the show and dinner. Dining Ser- vices, who also co-presented, did the decorations and provided the service crew. The menu consisted of every- Sltow (Photo .by Laurie thing form Indian vegetable pakoras tn Chinese roast duck to Pad Pat Squid ofThailand. When asked about what she thought of the menu,' Jen Angerosa an- swered, '~was-interesting be- cause this is the first time I've tried a lot of the food, but I liked it.\ . Deepak Kapur, mother of Union sophomore Priya Kapur, gave the first performance of the evening. She was followed by the Indian cultural performance whichconsistedofafashion show and dance performances. TI1e men and women of Shakti modeled traditional and contem- porary Indian clothing to the beat of popular Indian music. Their clothing wasrepresentative of the styles found in different parts of India. Among the items modeled was the sari, a long piece of de- signed silk or chiffon that is wrapped gracefully around a woman, which is especially promin~nt in southern India. The chunya cholis that were featured in the Raas dance at the end of Outer Space: Closer We Think? han by Aileen Quigley Staff Writer Professors Bucinell and Nichols of the Engineering Department have succeeded in bringing th~ realm of outer space and our means of getting there just a little bit closer to our campus. Their efforts on behalf of the Minerva Committee have culminated in a presentation by Roger M. Boisjoly, P.E. An expert in Forensic Engineer- ing and a distinguished ethics lec- turer, Mr. Boisjoly will speak of his involvement in the aerospace industry and how we can learn from the Challenger explosion in 1985. Mainly, his focus will be the ethical issues. that must be addressed in this cutting-edge in- dustry. His presentation, entitled 'jUsing Challenger as a Model to Change Organizational Behav- ior,'' will be held in the Nott Memorial on May lst, 1996, at 7:30p.m. Roger Boisjoly has been recog- nized as a highly-respected engi- neer, and is qualified to give ex- pert testimony in court. He worked for Thiokol for 27 years where area of expertise was troubleshooting on the Space Shuttle Solid Rocket Boosters. This was to be his final assign- of A Miracle by Stephanie Slobotkin New Editor On Tuesday Aprill6, the Jew- ish Student Unioil hosted Holo- caust survivor, Manfred Strauss. He came to Union to speak of his unforgettable experience in Ger- . many and the horror of the con- centration camps. Mr. Strauss was born in Ger- many, about 130 miles north of Frankfurt,a small town of ap- proximately 1,800 inhabitants. It was a farming community and . there were nine Jewish families · in his town. He describes it as a pleasant town until the invasion of the Nazis in 1933. Before the inva- sion, Manfred went to school and played soccer like an ordinary child. Howeverl the Nazis began the show which consisted of col- to label them as Jews and inhibit orfully decorated tops and ankle- their daily activities. \When I length skirts which are worn by . went to school people started call- women on festive occasions in ing me a 'dirty Jew.\' In 1934, he Northeast India. The clothing was told that he could not play modeled by the .men consi~ted soccer anymore because he· wa:? mainly of dhotis which is a long J.-.,·~w-Jt:su.·~ He was also told that shirt over a long piece of doth Alyans were not to associate with that is wrapped around the man's Jews. Therefore, a soccer team waist in an intricate fashion and ofJews was fanned. the kurtha which is the same long In 1935, Manfred explained shirt over a pair of loose fitting more restrictions were put into pants. place. Germans issued new laws Lindsay Porter and Liz Gilbert that all children of Jewish pescent were two students who are not must leave school and children affiliated with Shakti, but mod- whose fathers fought in World eled saris for the show. When War I could still attend. asked for their opinion concern- Two weeks after the Olympics ing the clothing, they answered, was ';the beginning,\ says \The clothing worn by contem- Manfred. Allthe local shops had porary Indian,women is much signs on their doors forbidding morefemininlt'han that worn in the Jews to be served. Nobody America.\ As an afterthought looked at the Jews or talked to -they added, \We feel like .god- them in public. desses!\ Business became worse in TI1ey Asian Student Union also 1937. The Jews who were able held a fashion show that was pre- to immigrate, did so, but with Continued on page 4 ment because of the testimony he offered during investigations of the Challenger Disaster. In his ·curriculum vitae, Boisjoly states how he \defended the origi- nal no-launch decision and vig- orously opposed the four Thiokol senior managers who seized con- trol of the meeting and voted to launch Challenger.\ Not surpris- ingly, Mr. Boisjoly's opposition did not sit well. Yet, he was confident enough in his own assessment ofthe tech- nical problems of the space shuttle to stand by his decision and still does to this day. He has appeared on television and radio, letting his voice be heard all over the country and presenting the facts as he saw them. However, the consequences have been se• much difficulty. They needed a visa and a passport, To obtain either of these, someone to vere. Since the decision. he has been blackballed by the aerospace industry, according to Professor Bucinell. Roger Boisjoly's strong stand by what he believed in can be seen as an important lesson in organizational etltics. Professor Bucinell feels that Boisjoly de- serves a great deal of respect for serving as a role model for orga- nizational ethics. He was willing to put everything on the line for the stand he took against the launch, and refused to waiver when the time carne to do so. He sacrificed his career, though not his integrity. 'There is~ lesson to be learned here about what real- life consequences can result from industrial decisions. This applies not only to the ostracism experi- vouch for the individual. In the Spring of 1938, Manfred's father had a meeting with the high rank officials in the Nazi party. TI1ey respected him as a business man and gave him advice admonishing him about the conditions, suggesting that he leave Germany as soon as pos- sible. Upon hearing this infonna- tion, Manfred's mother sent a tele- gram to her sister in the United States. There was no reply. Manfred continued to explain the· urffortunate circumstances that occurred up until he was sent to the concentration camp. Manfred said upon arriving at the camps, which was unknown to him, they piled out oftherailroad cars in Weimar. While walking there he stated, \they beat the hell out of us ... blood was everywhere and it was unbearable. People were trampled to death.\ From there, all the Jews were put into trucks and brought to the same camp that was shown in the beginning of the film Schindler'.'< Lisi. At this camp, Manfred saw dead bodies for the first time in his life. People committed sui- cide or were shot before the act was carried out. Mr. Strauss emphasized the fact that machine gun shots were the common tunes and red was the common color. There was no food. There was no water. Manfred suffered. He said they all suffered. Manfred described the endless screaming that pierced their {dreams during the night. Their fear overwhelmed their hunger, for their qesireto survive as long as possible. was far more impor- tant than even bread or water. After four days of no water or food Manfred's lips began to Continued on page 4 enced by Mr. Boisjoly, but to the lives of the those aboard the Challeger and their friends and family left behind. The Minerva Committee, in recognition of the I 50th anniver- sary of engineering at Union, sought to attract such esteemed speakers according to their theme of Engineering and Technology. Regardless of what field you wish to pursue, Robert Boisjoly's cour- age is certainly admirable. His emphasis on ethical issues incor- porates professions outside the engineering discipline. His ex- ample can be applicable to all majors, including Humanities and Social Sciences. Please be there to welcome Mt. Boisjoly on May 1st. 1996. Though the lecture lasts only one evening, its effects could last a lifetime.

I I \ I Campus Info · · · Phi Beta Kappa From th Class of 1997: \ ulia L. Lee Allison M. Pacelli Stephen V. Pot~nza Justin J. Stone Nicola B. Zarrelli Marina Zaydman Matthew L. MacJ:nnis Cindy Mantas Elizabeth T. McGaughan Craig T. Pike Brandon T. Press Sharon A. Schneider Linda C. Seymour Lalitia G. Shastry Hilliary A. Snow Wendy J. Stephenson They join the following members of the Class of 1996 elected last year: ,....,'\' ... M. De Carlo Magoon Jenrtifer Pyun ~no;;truu~~;; A. Rinaldi Daimee I. Stadler Reappointment Reviews The Department of Anthropolgy wiU be conducting a reappaointment review for Assistant Professor Karen Brison and Assistant Professor Stephen C. Leavitt. Any students or faculty wishing to contribute to the review of Prof. Brison should send a letter to Professors Sharon Gmelch, Teresa Meade, and Therese McCarthy. Those contributing to the review of Prof. Leavitt should direct comments to Professor George Gtnelch and Professor Mark Walker. \ Philomathean Society Suggested Topics for Debate: • Congress must raise the minimum wage. • The .administration is biased against the \ Greek syst(em. \ \ . 1 - ' t' ' ' . ' ·I\ ! ~. \'~\ . . • The Beatles should not have broken up. This Friday, April26, 7:29PM Hale House Upper Lounge Semi-Formal attire re Student Activities: TGIF brings back NEW AND IMPROVED FREE dinner buffets Friday, April 26 from 4-7 PM. . 4 t <' The movie TOY STORY is coming to campus this weekend. Friday thru Monday, April 26-29 at 8 & 10 PM in the Reamer Campus Center Auditorium. Upcoming Events: Greek Week: May 4-7. Health Fair: Thursday, May 9th. Steinmetz Symposium: May 10-12 Springfest: May 17-19. Performing Arts presents Noises Off by Michael Frayn, . May 22 through June 1 in The Yulman Theater. Mountebanks ReUnion Cabaret, Friday, May 31 stat•t- ing at 9 PM in Chet's, located in the back Campus Center. Interested in Copy-Editing for The Concordiensis, simply call Steph at x6155 to get involved. Recently, there has been an influx on the number of room keys that have been lost. Call it springtime, call it what- ever. If you do ever find any spare sets of keys laying around campus, please call security at x691 I . .. ---- - '· -- - .... ,. .., '' ,, \\ ~- . -- . ~ . ~ ,. . . -- ~ ~ CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT W£EKL Y INCIDENT SUMMARY TUESDAY, APRIL 16, 1996THROUGH MONI)AY,APRIL 22, 1996 OATEffiME LOCATION INCIDENT TUESDAY, APRIL 16,1996: lO:iO AM · Davidson South VANDALISM: Lounge furniture and furnishings damaged. 9:05PM Child Care Ctr NOISE COMPLAINT: Complaint regarding loud music. WED:NESDAY, APRIL 17, 1.99.6: 5:35PM · · Raymond THURSDAY APRIL.18, 1.996: 4:22AM AI) Phi Lot FRJ:DAY 1 APRIL19, 1996:. 4:22:p_M · · Davidson THEFT: Cash stolen from student's wallet, Room door was unlocked. MISCHlEVOUS' BEllA VIOR: Car covered with smashed eggs. SA·FE'l'Y HAZARD: Student climbed out of room window and dropped down 4:40PM Davidson South to roofbelow. .. FIRE: Person(s) 1m:known set notice l'lfire. Wall charred. ·No serious damage or injury. ·Notice was posted on wall on 3rd floor hall. 7:21 P:M College Center SUBSTANCE ABUSE: StUdent attempted to obtain alcoholic beverage using false ID. Conduct Ch~ge filed . . ·SATURDAY, APRIL 20, 1996: 12:12 AM · · ··· · South College l2:28AM South College. 1:24Al\1 College Center 2:30AN Silliman Lawn 1:12PM Fox Lot 2:25PM Richmond: ~n,r ,._ . 7:32PM Fox South 7:35PM Fox South LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION/FALSE FIRE ALARM: Pull box activated first floor. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. THtFT: Chair taken from I)utch Hollow found in student's room. Conduct Charges filed. THEFT: Office sign stolen from 3rd floor aFea. VANDALISM: Small tree broken in · half. V ANDALISM!fi{EFI': Handicapped parking sign and post broken and ·removed·. SAFETY ~ZAQ:. Electric wall outle~ sparked ap.d ~horted when used. · ' . \ VANDALISM: Student's room door damaged. . PROPERTY DAMAGE: Window in student common roorii broken. Cause undetermined. 9:30PM West College VANDALISM: Two windows in north SUNDAY, APRIL 21, 1996: 3:03AM North College 9:00AM ·Davidson North 1:15PM North College 8:17PM\ Fox Honse area 9:28PM: Nott Street 9:44PM Edwards House stairwell broken. VANDALISM: Paint splattered on rug, walls and doors along third floor hall. VANDALISM: Lounge window broken. THEFT: Patio chair taken from College Center patio found in student's room. Conduct Charge filed. TRESPASS: Visitor searching through dumpster for redeemables. Identified and advised off campus. VANDALISM: Resident ofNott St. reported someone just broke his house window. Chased suspect onto campus. Area checked. SPD notified. VANDALISM: Entry door damaged. Security hazard. Structural Dept. notified for emergency repair. MONDAY, APRIL 22 2 199(): 9:00AM . - - . . .. Steinmetz -- LIFE SAFETYViOLA'TION: Fire 9:30AM Butterfield 2:30PM \West College 6:38PM Richmond area 9:08PM South College 10:39 PM Seward Place extinquisher removed froin assigned location and discharged. VANDALISM: First floor area flooded-toilet intentionally-plugged; courtesy telephone dama8ed. Occurred over the weekehd. MlSCHlEVOUS BEHAVIOR: Water balloon thrown out of Wibdow striking a campus vehicle. FIRE/SAFETY HAZARD: Miftor fire in mulch caus~d. by improper disposal of smoking m~terials. LiFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Room smoke detector activated .. student using incense-Life Safety Violation Notice filed. VANDALISM: Student's car window broken .. SPD notified.

The Conconlicnsis • . \ pril 2S, 1996 • Page 3 . . · . ('amr)us ~ens . _ C. William Huntley, Former Dean and Provost · by Stephanie Slobotkin · · · worked at Adelbert College, the men's col.. Additionally, Mr. Huntley was a fel- Huntley's interest in psychology, teach- News Editor lege of Western Reserve. low of the American Psychological As- ing, and particularly in Union College was C. William Huntley, 82, a former Union College dean died on Wednesday, April 17 at Ellis hospital after a short illness. Mr. Huntley was born in Schenectady and graduated from Union College in 1934.. Be received his master's degree and his doctoral degree from Harvard Univer- .sity in 1938. Upon retuming to Union in 1947, he sociation and a member of Phi Beta Kappa a r-eflection of his passion for education, was appointed dean ofthe college and pro- and Sigma Xi. He authored many articles his sense of devotion to an institution and fessor of psychology. Each semester he for scholarly journals. He was also vice a measure of his energy. He helped de- taught at least one cour~e during his years chairman of the Commission on Higher velop and sustain a psychology program as dean. 'Education of the Middle State.s of Col- and an interest in ecology on the campus.\ In 1964, he resumed the position of a leges and Secondary Schools. Others who knew him said he was a full time instructor and was named chair- He was named the Gilbert R. respected professor who contributed · man of the psychology department. Livingston professor of psychology in much to Union College and also the coni- Durillg his graduate years, he taught psychology at Harvard, Radcliffe and Re· serve University; uow Case-Western Re~ serve. He was also named one of the Mr. Huntley was also the leader of 1982. In recognition of his service, the munity. He was thought of as a \dedi- campus beautification projects. In the Alumni Council presented Mr. Huntley cated man who was revered by many.\· 1950s, the Union College campus lost with the Faculty Meritorious Service Other comments reflected how well hundreds of elm trees due to Dutch elm Award and the Alumni Gold Medal. known he was, so that his memory will disease. Mr. Huntley's efforts led to the Professor Greenberg of the Psychology live on. youngest ·cleans in the country when he replacement of all trees and shrubs. department at Union commented: \Bill ~~~~~~~~--~~~~--~--~~--~~--~~------~- Belated E.arth Day Celebration Vandalism in the Librllry by Jody Mousseau Staff Writer April 22, 1996 marked the 26th anniversary of Earth Day. The purpose of the occasion is to promote environmental awareness across the nation. Different insti- tutions and organizations across the nation promote the occasion through different events. On Monday, events were not held on the Union campus in recognition of Earth Day, but instead, events on campus have been planned for the ensuing week .. end. A belated Earth Day celebration will take place on Saturday, April 27th. The idea for the event was a product of the reorganization of the Union College Chapter of Amensty International. After the reappoval of their constitution, and the other necessary steps which had to be ~aken to reactivate Amnesty International on campus, the idea for the organization of an Earth Day event came about. With tremendous support from the student body, including the classes and various orga- nizations on campus,. the plans for the event escalated into the organization of a small concert. The celebration will consist of a campus clean-up to begin at noon on Saturday, followed by a concert on the Reamer Cellege Center patio at 2pm. The events have been organized by the Union College chapter of Amnesty International, and is being co-sponsored:by ·the Union College Democrats, the Womyn's Union, the Office ofthe'Dean ofStudents, the Classes of 1999, 1998; and 1997, and the Union College Chapter of Amnesty International, with other organizations and classes to be tentatively named as co-sponsors of the event. The concert will consist of the Gamet Minstrels, Your M~ma 1 and the Big Block Blues Band, as well as speakers, and will last from 2prn to 6pm. The event speakers will consist of Jon Stoffer, the director of the Sierra Club Atlantic Chapter, and Professor Sharon Locke of the Geology Department. The purpose of the event is to recognize Earth Day as an important occasion on the Union campus, and to advocate and escalate environmental awareness on cam- pus. We hope for the event to be a success, and for the Earth Day concert to become an annual event on the Union campus. by Jody Mousseau News Staff Among the list of salient issues on the Union campus, vandalism in SchafferLi- brruy is not on the list .of important is- sues for most members of the Union com- munity. However, among library staff members and library administrators, the · . issue of vandalism is a primary concern. Recent vandalism has ranged from the de- facing ofthe furniture in the periodicals reading room which was finished in Janu- ary 1994 to several instances of damage :to microform printers on the lower level ofthe library. Last September, the age efthe old mi- crofonn reader printers caught up with them, and they began to work improp- erly. With this, the library purchased three new microform reader printers. Since this purchase, several acts of v~­ dalism have occurred with the equipment. Damages have included a roller which ·holds the film in place bein~ broken, bro- . ken paper trays, and one instance when one of the two pieces of glass on the mi- crofortn reader printer had been removed. During the course of winter term, repairs had to made on the machines in four sepa- rate instances. Due to the instances of VIUldalism, the machines have had a sig- nificant amount of down time, disallow- ing students and other members of the Union community from using the rna- ITO MOTO PHOTO FOR lcbanactady 1041·1tata Street 182·5778 chines, and the costs for replacement· parts and repairs have been costly. Taking steps to end the acts of vandal-· ism, library personnel have placed bright : orange signs on the equipment, as well as instructions to assist students, staff, and · faculty in working the machines. Cara Molyneaux, Head of Administrative Ser- vices in Schaffer library, hopes that these measures will be a step towards stopping . inci<l,ents.ofvandalism in the Ubrary. The. 'whq' and 'why' to the damages have re- · mained a mystery. Molyneaux com-.· m~nted, \Vandalism has been sporadic, but my major concern is when the van- dalism occurs to new equipment or new furniture,\ The measures that can be taken to prevent vandalism only go so far, and the rest is up to the individuals in the Union community. · \The vandalism seems senseless, costs the library money, takes equipment out of use for students and other users, and in gen~ral, is frustrating for all con- cern,ec(\ stated Cara Molyneaux. Van- dalism in Schaffer Library is a subject which should not be ignored any longer, especially with the upcoming improve- ments to Schaffer Library. All members of the Union community should take care that they are not causing damage to ma- chines, furniture, and other fixtures in the library to ensure that vandalism does not continue toremain a problem in Schaffer Library. SAVINGS I r-il%ifFFI- -iii -M:aa-- :S5:oo-iiFF1 I PROCESSING I REPIIIITS 8110 I CWB I I Receive SO% off the regular I L. • 20 dard • I LUnit 3 8x t 0 enlargemenQ.~ Receive SS.OO off when I 1 price of processing and . ~t stan sue From your 35mm color I you purchase a club I I printing color piint fdm. I repnnts. From y~ur 35 mm -I negative. · membership! Must present I I · color negative. I I . · · I . . L_ imit_ l. _ro_ll.s. Standard_ s_ize pri_n_ ts oally •. I . . . . I Custom croppina11111y be available at an I coupon to rece1ve $5.00 off. 1 additional chute. Not valid with other I Not vahd wath ocher coupons or extn set . Not_ valad w1th othe_ r coupons or offers. I\IMiftftns· _ .. or extra ... promota\ons .. c· I .. L L' •t · N t I'd 'th I · · Club membe • · 1 .. . · . 1 . ..,..,..... -· uu 1· anu one per person. o va 1 wa . :. 1 promotiom. . · ~ rs n:ce1ve . Club memben recetve 10% coupon pnce. members receive IO% coupon price. other coupons or offel'$. I . . .. . UM coupon pnc~. I . . . • . I 01161101111 . I 1101111 I Mo\TT/IHOicll Mb\ToPHOI'd I MOTOI'HO'TO• 1 Jroro,.HOTO• I ·-----------------~---------------------·

Page 4 • Apt·il25, 1996 • The ConcQrdicnsis - · Campus :\eus . . ' . . UCALL: It's Never Too Late to Learn by Michelle Neier Staff Writer You might have noticed that for a few weeks every fall and spring there are some unfamiliar people around campus. Well, unknown to many students, there is a pro- gram at Union called UCALL, Union College Academy for Life- long Learning. The program, started in the fall of 1988, aUows older members oftbe community to participate in seminars and to take classes on various topics re- gardless of their education. UCALL members are entitled to enroll in various classes for a fee of $15. The seminars each mnfor five, 2 hour sessions. The topics range from evolution to education. Some ofthe seminars being offered this spring, for ex- ample, are The Truth of Poetry, World Religions and \Ancestors Far and Near\. Most of the semi- nars are filled to capacity. There was one course, however, Educa- tion Today, which was not given because it did not have a large enough enrollment. It seemed that because the students are older people, they are not as interested in today's educational institu- tions. According to Marion Miller, on of the programs organizers, mem- bers come from a wide range of Holocaust ..... Continuedfromp.J peel and his skin started to break. informed that he was going to He was completely parched and America because his aunt had fi- had a thunderstorm not come on nally sent an affidavit. Manfred the fifth day, he might have died. said that it was luck that he ob- Manfred witnessed the S.S. tained a visa because atthat time, beating people. He saw them be- the United States. had a quota of ingmaimed and tortured. \I could 2,040 Jews. not comprehend how one human In America, Mr. Strauss con- being could do this to another.\ stantly wondered how he could For weeks he went without get his parents out of Germany. bathing or changing his clothes. He was unable to fulfill this de- He also suffered from Pneumonia, sire and later learned that they which he miraculously survived, were taken to Auschwitz in i 943. Manfred saw his first glimpse He is thankful that he had the of hope on Christmas of 1938, chance to come to America, but when it was announced that all could never forget that his Aunt people under the age of 18 would did not save the rest of his fam- be released from the camp. On ily. New Year's Day his name was When asked how he survived called and he was shipped home such harsh realities Mr. Strauss to Frankfurt. commented: \I do not know, it is Upon arriving home he was truly a miracle!\ places. Sotne come from as close as Schenectady and others come from as far away as the Catskills. Many people in the program also come from Albany. Mrs.Miller also said that although there .is no educational prerequisite, most of the participants are highly educated people. They are ex- tremely eager to leam and keep their minds working. She re- ported that the classes are ex- tremely challenging. Students are encouraged and happy to do research outside of class, often using our own Schaeffer Library as a resource. As an extra member benefit, UCALL organizes Cultural Ex- Students who attended felt that Manfred Strauss was an ex- cellent speaker. Emily Becker said, \ he touched on a topic that made us think twice about our daily routines and how much we have to appreciate life's little gifts.\ Another student, Janci karp commented: \I thought he was incredible ... not only did he hold the audiences' attention with his story as a whole, but he re- called such precise details of his experience during the Holo- caust.\ The College Center Audito- rium was filled and at the con- clusion of the speech stuc;lents and faculty were in awe. Union College was fortunate enough to host Manf <el Strauss, for he is among, the rr~maining few survi- vors•ofthe ~·olocaust. cursions to various sites around the country. This spring, for example, a trip is being offered to Washing- ton, D.C. and Williamsburg, VA. l11e four day trip includes stops at many of the national attractions including the White Bouse, the Smithsonian museums and the College of William and Mary. Although UCALL does charge a fee for membership and classes, it is able to keep its price at a mini- mum because of contributions to the Friends of UCALL. This is a voluntary contribution fund set up in 1994. It helps to .provide print- ing, postage, food service, rental of audio-visual equipment, admin- istrative and other services. Mrs.Miller stated strongly that the members ofUCALL are very thankful to the students· of Union for sharing their campus. They greatly appreciate the opportunity to continue their education in such an enJoyable manner with their peers. According to. one of the other members, Belle Drew, \It's an interesting course meant for intelligent people. A book list to keep forever.\ Another stu- dent, Cheryl Parkhurst said ''UCALL selllinars.give me a new lease on life\.- Next time you s~e those new faces in the campus center remember how thankful there are to be here and how lucky we should feel to be sharing our community with them. ASU Expose Continuedfrompage 1 The clothing modeled by the ASU was not entirely Asian ori- ented. When asked why they in- cluded the clothing from the Gap and other American stores in their show, Fei-Lu Qian, the treasurer of ASU answered, \We wanted to show that Asians are wearing Americanclothingaswell as their traditional clothing.\ The traditional wear consisted of elegant Shanghai dresses and workday clothes from China, hl- donesia, Burma, and Japan. l11e clothing reflected the diverse styles that are found in the many · different Asian countries of the world. Qian felt th~t~th:e show as a whole was a success and thought that the hardwork which was put • into getting ready for the past month was worth it in the end. Both ASU and Shakti look for- ward to presenting anotl1er cel- .ebration ·of Asian and Indian cul- ture next year. While waiting backstage for the performance to begin, Suri Dwaraka~tathan and Raj Chilakapti, two Union students, glanced at the packed cafeteria and commented, \It's great that so many people turned out to lea,ril about such diverse cul- tures.\ Their ~entiments were echoed by all of those involved in ~akin~ the evening a success. - ~\ You won't believe your eyes. For more injfJI'mtltkm visit us on the Internet at http:llhed.info.apple.coml · .. ·.·· . . ·Reamer campus·Center, 2nd Floor · • · · 388-6188 (That's just the price. Wait unttl you experience the multimedia) When you buy a Macintosh• computer, you're buying some of the most advanced multimedia capabilities you can get in a computer. With built-in stereo sound, video graphics and animation, Macintosh is an easy way to bringyourwork to life. And !h. ere's no better time to start creating that work than right now Because were offering special campus savings on selected Macintosh computets and Apple\ printers. With the sight, sound and motion of a Mac; it won't just be your eyes and ears that are ,blown Your professors will be blown away too. So visit us today, and look into the power of Macintosh. The power to be your bese I I I • n e a .SI a tl p VI l'i 0 e d n VI h I\ t~ d E

.Pag~·41·~.~~pri.f.'25~.1996 .. ~.'·,·n~li·f~nic()rd·i~nsJ_~··.:.·'·:.· .. :.: .. : ... ::··.· ... : ..... :::··,.:·:· · :·.··: ... ·· :_: .. · .· .':.·:.·. · .. 1 • ••• :· •• ,: •.•• • •• ·(;ain.pus'Ne\\·s. · ' 1:. • , ', \•~ - '• ~} • '<' ~· ,\~.: ,.!. •• ~ • ._,.,...,..,~~\'\'\'t 4 J;(,,.,.,<J,t<'~~~-\\..,....'\<'. 1 ~,.,.,:_,~J~M,_'\'I<\'''':'qrt:-~f-\*.--'\\'•_..; •• •,':.,·~-., '1.~ ~ ~ ,•' , , 1, ~ ', ,'; '• , ', ,• ' , , ! ' \.; ''' \':~: ' ,I ' , UCALL: It's Never Too Late to Learn by Michelle Neier Staff Writer You might have noticed that for a few weeks every fall and spring there are some unfamiliar people around campus. WelL unknown to many students, there is a pro- ).!ram at Union called lJCALL Union College Academy f(x Life- long !.earning. The program. started in the fall of 1988. allows older members of the community to participate in seminars and to take classes on various topics re- gardless of their education. UCALL members are entitled to enroll in various classes for a fee of $15. The seminars each runfor five, 2 hour sessions. 1l1e topics range from evolutioH to education. Some of the seminars being offered this spring, for ex- ample, are TI1e Truth of Poetry, World Religions and \Ancestors Far and Near\. Most of the semi- nars are filled to capacity. There was one course, however. Educa- tion Today. which was not given because it did not have a large enough enrollment. It seemed that because the students are older people. they are not as interested in tnday's educational institu- tions. According to Marion Miller. on of the prob>rams organizers, mem- bers come from a wide range of Holocaust ...... Continuedjromp. 1 peel and his skin started to break. informed that he was going to He was completely parched and America because his aunt had fi- had a thunderstorm not come on nally sent an affidavit. Manfred the fifth day, he might have died. said that it was luck that he ob- Manfred witnessed the S.S. tained a visa because at that time, beating people. He saw them be- the United States had a quota of ing maimed and tortured. \I could 2,040 Jews. not comprehend how one human In America, Mr. Strauss con- being could do this to another.\ stantly wondered how he could For weeks he went without get his parents out of Gennany. bathing or changing his clothes. He was unable to fulfill this de- He also suffered from Pneumonia, sire and later teamed that they which he miraculously survived. were taken to Auschwitz in l 943. Manfred saw his first glimpse He is thankful that he had the of hope on Christmas of 1938, chance to come to America, but when it was announced that all could never forget that his Aunt people under the age of 18 would did not save the rest of his fam- be released from the camp. On ily. New Year's Day his name was When asked how he survived called and he was shipped home such harsh realities Mr. Strauss to Frankfurt. commented: \I do not know, it is Upon arriving home he was truly a miracle!\ places. Some come from as close as Schenectady and others come from as far away as the Catskills. Mati!y people in the program also come from Albany. Mrs.Miller also said that although there is no educational prerequisite, most of the participants are highly educated people. They are ex- tremely eager to leam and keep their minds working. She re- ported that the classes are ex- tremely challenging. Students are encouraged and happy to do research outside of class, often using our own Schaeffer Library as a resource. As an extra member benefit, UCALL organizes Cultural Ex- Students who attended felt that Manfred Strauss was an ex- cellent speaker. Emily Becker said, II he touched on a topic that made us think twice about our daily routines and how much we have to appreciate life's little gifts. II Another student, Janci karp commented: \I thought he was incredible ... not only did he hold the audiences' attention with his story as a whole, but he re- called such precise details of his experience during the Holo- caust.\ The College Center Audito- rium was filled and at the con- clusion of the speech students and faculty were in awe. Union College was fortunate enough to host Manf ~t Strauss, for he is among the n,maining few survi- vors of the • • olocaust. cursions to various si·tes around the country. TI1is spring, for example, a trip is being offered to Washing- ton, D.C. and WiHiamsburg, VA. T11e four day trip includes stops at many of the national attractions including the White House, the Smithsonian museums and the College of William and Mary. Although UCALL does charge a fee for membership and classes, it is able to keep its ptice at am ini- mum because of contributions to the Friends of UCALL. This is a voluntary contribution fund set up in 1994. It helps to provide print- ing, postage, food service, rental of audio-visual equipment, admin- istrative and other services. Mrs.Miller stated strongly that the members ofUCALL are very thankful to the students of Union for sharing their campus. They great! y appreciate the opportunity to continue their education in such an enjoyable matilner with their peers. According to one of the other members, Belle Drew, \It's an interesting course meant for intelligent people. A book list to keep forever.\ Another stu- dent, Cheryl Parkhurst said \UCALL seminars give rne a new lease on life\. Next time you see those new faces in the campus center rem e1n ber how thankful there are to be here and how I ucky we should feel to be sharing our community with them. ASU Expose Continued from page 1 The clothing modeled by the ASU was not entirely Asian ori- ented. When asked why they in- cluded the clothing from the Gap and other American stores in their show, Fei-Lu Qian, the treasurer of ASU answered, \We wanted to show that Asians are wearing American clothing as well as their traditional clothing.\ l11e traditional wear consisted of elegant Shanghai dresses and workday clothes from China, In- donesia, Bunna, and Japan. 1l1e clothing reflected the diverse styles that are found in the many different Asian countries of the world. Qian felt that the show as a whole was a success and thought that the hard work which was put into getting ready for the past month was worth it in the end. Both ASU and Shakti look for- ward to presenting another cel- ebration of Asian and Indian cul- ture next year. While waiting backstage for the perfonnance to begiH, Suri Dwarakanathan and Raj Chilakapti, two Union students, glanced at the packed cafeteria and commented, \'It's great that so many people turned out to learn about such diverse cul- tures.\ Their sentiments were echoed by all of those involved in making the evening a success. You wotit believe your eyes. You won't believe your ears. For more information visit us on the Internet at http:!!hed. info.apple. com! .,, '5''\'''2''•·d·~~t '\'' · ::c . . ·• Contact Charles Bosworth at ,. Union\'<;;oU8geBGokstore ...... o ··'\. ••· ..•• Reamer Campus Center, 2nd Floor • 388-6188 .. ·:.:·.· (That's just the price. Wait until you experience the multimedia.) When you buy a Macintosh\ computer, you're buying some of the most advanced multimedia capabilities you can get in a computer. With built-in stereo sound, video graphics and animation, Macintosh is an easy way to bring your work to life. And there's no better time to start creating thatwork than right now. Because we're offering special campus savings on selected Macintosh computers and Apple\ printers. With the sight, sound and motion of a Mac~ it won't just be your eyes and ears that are blown away. Your professors will be blown away too. So visit us today, and look into the power of Macintosh. The power to be your bese I II E

i I I ' :) Bu~iness. . · U:Ip~ U:ottl.\nri'lit'nsis April 25, J 996. Page 5 .. B . . ustness -~----~Anothe~ Huge Merger in the Business World.~---- AnaJJdRao Editor-at-Large Cutting costs is always on the mind of an American .business executive. A merger; with its accompanying changes, often serves as a plausible excuse for arbitrarily detennining the fate of thousands of hard-working em- ployees. Thus, it did not come as much of a surprise last week when the Bell Atlantic and Nynex Corporations agreed to one of the largest corporate merg- ers in American history. Un- doubtedly, the bottom line was not far from the minds of the men who agreed to create the nation's largest local telephone company. My guess is that it is only a mat- ter of time before the corporate downsizing begins. According to 1995 figures, the Bell Atlantic-Nynex merger will make it the second--largest phone company in the United States af- ter AT&T. With a combined stock market value of $51,000,000,000, annual sales of close to $27 ,OOO,OOO,OOO, a payroll of 127;600 employees, and more than 36,000,000 customers in twelve state~ from Maine to Virginia, a merger between these two compa- nies w:ill produce a giant -in tele- communications. This potential giant has the capacity to dominate an entire industry up and down the Eastern Seaboard, providing a va- riety of services to major popula• tioncenters like Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Washington, and Baltimore. Every good story, however, has a flip side to it. The fljp side to this story is that we live in an age oftruly ruthless competition in the United States. Our era is one in which most business executives show more loyalty to their stock- holders than to their employees. Almost 2,000,000 stockholders UNIO.N LAU·NDRY 581 NOTT ST. • SCHENECTADY, NV 12308· . ~CROSSFRQM UNION COL$1E) OPEN DAILY SAM TO 1'0;~0P~ .. FB;E DRXJNG.-: _ TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS 8AMT03PM Sl PER WASH. 5Tttt WASH ERE I; 7 WASHES FOR $5. . . 28 WASHES FOR $.20. MAIL:: (OR DliPOsi'T INOOR SUQGESTIONBOX} THIS AD TO UNION LAUNDRY FORA FREE WASH INCUJDS YOUR NAME ~NO ADDRESS: have an interest in .the Bell At- lantic-Nynex merger, and it is most likely that these people will have .their demands satis- fied to a greater degree than the employees of the two compa- nies. The recent and partial re- nunciation of socialist e~onomic planning by a number ofcoun- tries, including India, China, Russia, and Vietnam, seems to have reinforced the cutthroat tendencies ·Of the American business world. Expect at least a few thousand employees of Bell Atlantic and Nynex to get the pink slip in the coming months. Of course, the corporate ex- ecutives will always tell the world that downsizing is the price to be paid for a higher quality of service. But will the Bell Atlantic-Nynex merger produce a higher quality of ser- vice for the people of the East- em Seaboard? With such a gi- ant looming over the telecom- S. Korea munications industry in this pan of the country; it is reasonable to say that natural competition in this industry will be considerably diminished in the near future. Monopolies are not known for their technical innovation and high quality of service, and it appears that the Bell Atlantic- BfzFacts Nynex merger will produce something that approaches a telecommunications monopoly in the northeastern United States. Meanwhile, as a result of corporate downsizing, there will be at least a few more qualified workers collecting unem lo .ment benefits. Economics or Busi- ness Major? Write for <1Innrnrbu-. NAME=--------------~~----------- ~- Oit~ \ ~N , •• ~ •· .... ~,. Contact The Editors@ 388-6155 or e-mail cm4.e <!Inurnrbiensis at Concordy @ gar.union.edu ADORESS: ..• ------------- It's Your Future- Let the Air Force give it a boost with: • High-tech training • Hands-on experience • Tuition assistance • Medical and dental care • Excellent salary For more information call 1-800-423-USAF or contact your local Air Force recruiter. Graduating??? Unsure of what you'll be doing after gradutation? Do y-Ou have office experience, some typing, computer literate and service orientation demanded by the heathcare field? Training oppurtunities are available for self.:. motivated students looking for an entt:y into . healthcare. Call: Med-Scribe, Inc. (716)-262- 3694, or email to med~crib@vivanet.com. Resumes to: Med-,Scribe, Inc., 215 Alexander ··St., Rochester; NY 14607. A enc , no f~es The Economics Department is inviting· students to a· l for membership in Omicron Delta Epsilon the national Economics honor society. In order to qualify for membership in ODE, you must have a 3.0 cumulative grade point average or better,and must also have an average of at least 3.0 in economics courses. You must he a junior or a senior. Ynu must have taken ~conomics I 2, 20. J I. and 42. but you do not have to he an economics major. non-majors arc welcome to apply if they meet the above nitcria. If you wish to join nnE. send a copy nf your unofficial transcript to Prof Stephen Schmidt (not Pwf .Shell<m Schrnidtl) in the Eclmomics depart- ment. It will be reviewed to detennine whether you meet the admissions criteria. If you do meet them, you will be given an application form. There will be a ceremony in spring for newly accepted members. Please reply by April 22. World famous PSYCHIC to stars and celeb- . rities--35 years experience--can! help you to obtain love, health, wealth and luck. Tele- phone David Gaurdino ANYTIME at 423- 558-1197 or 214-340-9844; Fax 214-341- 0606

··:. Bu-sines's· · : · . - -· . · · · · · . · ·: _:· ·. ·:. ·, .~ ·. -~ · · · .. ·. ·<Et.p~ Qi~l;l~;o·r,hi~it-~iS. _:A.pdf25~ J9ll6. · 'P.age. '$·.·: .: ' . .. ., . ' .. . •' . ' .· ' . . . ' Business -----Another Huge Merger in the Business World.----- AnandRao Editor-at-Large Cutting costs is always on the Hiind of an American . business executive. A merger, with its accompanying changes, often serves as a plausible excuse for arbitrarily detenn ining the fate of thousands of hard-working em- ployees. Thus, it did not come as much -of a surprise last week when the Bell Atlantic and Nynex Corporations agreed to one of the largest corporate merg- ers in American history. Un- doubtedly, the bottom line w·as not far from the minds of the men who agreed to create the nation's largest local telephone company. My guess is that it is only a mat- ter of time before the corporate downsizing begins. According to 1995 figures, the Bell Atlantic-Nynex merger will make it the second-largest phone company in the United States af- ter AT&T. With a combined stock market value of $51,000,000,000, annual sales of close to $27,000,000,000, a payroll of 127,600 employees, and more than 36,000,000 customers in twelve states from Maine to Virginia, a merger between these two compa- nies wiH produce a giant in tele- communications. This potential giant has the capacity to dominate an entire industry up and down the Eastern Seaboard, providing a va- riety of services to major popula- tion centers like Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Washington, and Baltimore. Every good story, however, has a flip side to it. The flip side to this story is that we live in an age of truly ruthless competition in the United States. Our era is one in which most business executives show more loyalty to their stock- holders than to their employees. Almost 2,000,000 stockholders UNION LAUNDRY 561 NOTT ST. • SCHENECTADY. NY 12308 ~CROSS FROM UNION COLLBJE) OPEN DAILY SAM TO 1 0;30PM have an interest in the Bel:l At- lantic-Nynex merger, ancl it is most likely that these people will have their demands satis- fied to a greater degree than the employees of the two compa- nies. The Fecent and partial re- nunciation of socialist economic planning by a numbeF of coun- tries, inclucling India, China, Russia, and Vietnam, seems to have reinforced the cutthroat tendencies of the American business world. Expect at least a few thousand employees of Bell Atlantic and Nynex to get the pink slip in the coming months. Of course, the corporate ex- ecutives will always tell the world that downsizing is the price to be paid for a higher quality of service. But will the Bell Atlantic-Nynex merger j'lroduce a higher quality of ser- vice for the people of the East- t.'Jrn Seaboard? With such a gi- ant looming over the telecom- Taiwan munications industry in this part of the countrv; it is reasonable to say that natural competition in this industry will be considerably diminished in the near future. Monopolies are not known for their technical innovation and high quality of service, and it appears that the Bell Atlantic- BizFacts Nynex merger will produce something that approaches a telecommunications monopoly in the northeastern United States. Meanwhile, as a result of corporate downsizing, there will be at least a few more qualified workers collecting unem lo ment benefits. Economics or Busi- ness Major? FREE DRYING TUESDAYS & THURSCAVS 8AMT03PM Sl PER WASH. 5Titl WASH FREE 7 WASHES FOR $5. ' ·. ' 722,349 Write for ainnrnrny. 28 WASHES FOR $20. MAIL: (OR DEPOSIT IN OUR SUQGESTION BOX) THIS AD TO UNION I.AUNORY FORA FREE WASH INCLUDE YOIJR NAME AND ADDRESS; S. Korea NAME:--------------- AOORESS:----------------------------- It's Your Ftlture - Let the Air Force give it a boost with: • High-tech training • Hands-on experience • Tuition assislance • Medical and dental care • Excellent salary For more infonnation call 1-800423-USA.F or contact your local Air Force recruiter. •. ·.··· . .=-A.~·· . . . . - ' . . . . . ' ~ . '. Graduating??? Unsure of what you'll be doing after gradutation? Do you have office experience, some typing, computer literate and service orientation demanded by the heathcare field? Training oppurtunities are available for self- motivated students looking for an entry into healthcare. Call: Med-Scribe, Inc. (716)-262- 3694, or email to medscrib@vivanet.com. Resumes to: Med-Scribe, Inc., 215 Alexander St., Rochester, NY 14607. A enc , no fees The Economics Department is inviting students to a 1 for membership in Omicron Delta Epsilon the national Economics honor society. In order to qualify for membership in ODE, you must have a 3.0 cumulative grade point average orbetter,and must also have an average of at least 3 0 in economics courses You must be a junior or a senior You must have taken ~conomics 12. 20. J I, and 42. but you do not have .to be an economics major. non-majors arc welcome to apply if they meet the above criteria If you wish to join ODE. send a copy of your unofficial transcript to Prof Stephen Schmidt (not Prof. Shelton Schmidt') in the Economics depart- ment. It will be reviewed to dctcnnine whether you meet the admissiuns criteria. If you do meet them, you will be given an application fonn. There will be a ceremony in spring for newly accepted members. Please reply by April 22. Contact The Editors @ 388-6155 or e-mail <Q!Jr.e <llnncnrbitnsis at Concordy @ gar.union.edu World famous PSYCHIC to stars and celeb- rities--35 years experience--can! help you to obtain love, health, wealth and luck. Tele- phone David Gaurdino ANYTIME at 423- 558-1197 or 214-340-9844; Fax 214-341- 0606

\Vorld Nevvs tilp~ O::nnn1ri.'lit·.nsis ~ April25~ 1996_ Page 6 '• l • ...... ;~~' ~. ~ ~: : ' ~· ~/<.~ .· .. · .. · • • \';:! 'r r\ ' '• , / • i • .' • •: World News WHO IS OUR E.NEMY? by Anand Rao World News Editor diculous to the Communist Party members and Central Committee .officials who con- stituted the most privileged group in the U.S.S.R. While Russian, Ukrainian, and Arme- nian housewives spent hours in line waiting to buy the scarce quantity of rotting food that was available in street markets, Communist Party cadres en- joyed easy access to high qual- ity fruits, vegetables, and meats. .Instead of declaring a Cold War o n t h e cor- rupt, bru- t a 1 , and dis- tinctly non- c.om- m u- nist men who ruled t h e s 0- viet Union until five sal concepts of human rights and equality of opportunity. To have a foreign policy centered around the protection of one \'s national interest, hawever, a country needs to have that in- ten~st threatened by a formi- dable adversary. And to have a foreign policy strategy backed up by a popular opinion that is· often ignorant, prejudiced, and misinformed is always useful to exaggerate the strength of an adversary. The strength of an have been sponsored over the years by authorities in Iran, Libya,. Syria, and the territories occupied by Israel. Bad gov• ernnients, led by immoral men who are not accountable to their people, are responsible for all of the bombings, explosions, an:dkidnappingsthat have taken ,place in New York, Paris, Beirut, Tel Aviv, and many other places over the last two decades. For centuries, the eco- nomic and political develop- In the history of the world, a true communist state has never existed. The Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, founded in October 1917 and dissolved in December 1991, was definitely not a communist state. It was a totalitarian state which suc- ceeded in combining the worst aspects of modem industrial- ized society. Had Karl Marx been living in the U.S.S.R. around 1937 or 1938, for in- stance, he would have seen true believers in the ideals of com- munism being purged and de- stroyed by the madness of Stalin, and he would have seen his beloved proletarians doing piecework under the harshest possible conditions. Although the Soviet Union represented state-imposed terrorism at its most extreme, every powerful and centralized state in the mod- ern age has victimized its people, including our own. Thus, when the United States govemnrent wjshed to contai~ the expansion of Soviet influ- ence in the years following the end of World War II, it could not justify such a polic~ by merely emphasizing the repres- sive nature of the U.S.S.R. Af- 'years ., ~-....r.;.,----- ........ -~~----........,--- ....... -------~--------\\\ ter alJ, the repressive nature of American society in the 1940s was all too familiar to blacks, women, Hispanics, Asians, Jews, and countless others. American policymakers had to manufacture the idea of a fun- damental difference existing between the heavenly world of capitalism and the devilish world of communism. The Soviet Union, which was a murderous, ruinous, stul- tifying fraud, assisted in the consolidation of American opinion against the theories of Karl Marx. Communism, while publicly upheld as the ideology of the Soviet Union, was deemed irrelevant in private sessions of the Politburo. For Lenin, Stalin, Khrushchev, and Brezhnev, theoretical commu- nism was merely seen as· a use• ful tool in extending the power of the centuries old Russian Empire. The thought of creat- ing a classless society was ri- ago, our government made the mis- take of declaring war on an en- tire body of enlightened thought. After 1945, our nation's desire to combat the rising power ofcommunism, or anything resembling commu- nism, had dire consequences for much of the world. I thought it was necessary to give you this brief history les- adversary can be effectively ex- aggerated by depicting it as a monolithic evil. During the Cold War, this strategy pre- vented American leaders from distinguishing the genuine be- lievers in utopian communism from those persons who merely used communism as a means of consolidating their own power. How could there be both son because history seems to be \good\ communists and \bad\ repeating itself. American for- communists when all of com- eign policy has been plunged into a state of uncertainty since the fall of the S-oviet Union, and a growing number of individu- als have become almost nostal- gic for the days when our coun- try had a clear enemy. munism was viewed as an irre- deemable menace by an Ameri- can public that had been heavily influenced by McCarthyist proN - paganda? Today; this strange and tragic situation is repeating itself in America's attitude 'to- America's attempt to provide wards Islam and its adherents. humanitarian leadership in places like Haiti and Somalia has not been met with popular ·approval. A large number of .Aniericill1s are more htclined to believe that· protecting one's nationaHnterest is more impor- tant than upholdingjhe univer- Ever since a violently anti- American regime seized control of Iran in 1979, millions of American citizens have come to associate Islam with terrorism . The truth, however, is that Is- lam is not the primary inspira- tion for acts of terrorism that Ruotes of the Week ... \Nationalism is our form of incest, is our idolatry, is our insanity. Patriotism is its cult.\ - Erich Fromm \A nation is a society united by a delusiol! tJhout its ancestry and by a common hatred ojits neighbours.\ ~ William Ralph Inge Source: 21st Century Dictionary of Quotations ment of the Middle East was re~ tarded by external interference and exploitation. In such an en- vironment, it is easy for power to fall into the hands of the wrong people. This is exactly what happened in the many Middle Eastern countries that . obtained real independence af- ter 1945. Almost all Muslims are like everyone else. They deplore violence, they work hard, and they only want io liv~ well in order to pass on their prosperity to succeeding gen- erations. It is the Machiavel- lian power-seekers, brutally rul- ing over much of the Islamic world. who are the sources of so much pain and suffering. As is the case with commu- nism, it is doubtful that a true Islamic \state'' has ever existed. The men who rule over hun- dreds of millions of Muslims today are not true believers in their own religion. They merely use Islam as a means of legiti- mizing their autl10ritarian rule. The similarities between the misuse of communism in Soviet Russia and the misuse oflslatn in today's Middle East are strik- ing. What is even more strik- ing is that the United Sta~es gov- ernment is moving in the direc- tion of completely misreading both situatians. Are we unabie to see the hypocrisy? The rul- ing family ofSaudi Arabia talks about upholding Islamic law, but its members frequently travel to London on the week- ends and violate that law by cc;msuming alcohol with their European friends. Human rights violations are. not a part ofthe Islamic tradition, and yet few regimes have less respect for human life than the regimes of ~raq, Iran, Syria, Saudi Arabia: and the other states of. the Persian Gulf. It is the re- gimes of the Middle East that are brutal and pro~lematic, not the people. We made marty mistakes in fighting the Cold War against the Soviet Union. In the end, however, the Sovie! economy was so badly managed that the totalitarian structure finally col- lapsed, and Eastern Europe was liberated from its political im- prisonment. The United States knew very little about the inte;rnal dynam- ics of the Soviet Union at the outset of the Cold War, and we know even less about the Is- lamic world today. If the - United States government w~1ts Islam to replace commu- nism as our targeted enemy in the world, then Islam willsurely become our enemy, Unlike the Cold War, how- ever ,_,a war between the United States and Islam will be a war . that we' cannot possibly win. Islam is the world's fastest growing religion, both inside and outside of the United States. With a faithful following of more than one billion people, Muslims can be found in every comer of the globe, and they control the lucrative economies of many resource-rich coun- tries, including Indonesia, Ma- laysia, and the oil-soaked states of the Persian Gulf. Although tens of millions of Americans, ignorant of Islamic theology and wary of international terror- ism, see a new enemy emerg- ing in th·e religion of Mohammed, American policymakers must ignore the temptation to stabilize our for- eign policy by making an en- emy out of an entire religion. In the future, American Mus• lims should not be deprived of their civil rights as a result of a Cold War against Islam. The House Un~American Activities Commitfee, headed by Con- gressman Richard Nixon during the communist witch-hunts of the early 1950s, should not be revived for the purpose of coun- tering \subversive\ activities among Muslims in the United States. Nothing would be more appalling than to see a Con- gressman; on live national tele- vision, demanding to know if an American citizen of Middle Eastern origin is, ol has ever been, an adherent of the Islamic religion. The McCarthy Era is over, and history must not te- peat itself. I m in Tl b~ w of gc be PI s, th th sa Sl th N p< th in in N al nc fll ta m I U] h 1' g .R f< ( b p h 1 1- ( k r: tl c f

i \i ' . \Vorld News . U::lp' <£:ouco~oicnsis, Aprif25, 1996 Page 1 World News Free Speech Does Not Apply to the President of the· United States by 1\'latt Sandler World News Staff A mortar shell is tired into the market square in Sarajevo, kill- ing over fifty innocent civilians. The Serbs responsible have been carrying out these attacks with impunity. The President ofthe United States says we are going to bomb the Serbs. They back down. Score one for the President, but not quite yet.. The Serbs after two days .of halting the attacks decide to resume their terrorism. The President says, \Stop or we bomb.\ The Serbs pause th.eir sh~ing, and then continue on, e~cting the North Atlantic Treaty Organi- zation (NATO) to attack their positions. Perhaps they suspect that there are Green Berets lurk- ing in the tnountains to direct in the air attacks. However, the NATO air attack never materi- alizes and the Serb terrorism is now appeased. They have de facto impunity. Civilians are targeted. The President's word means nothing to them. One may be wondering why I am bringing this familiar fact up, when NATO air strikes and battlefield gains by the Croats and Muslims brought the three factions to Dayton, peace, and NEW YORK CITY - A legal group founded by the National Rifle Association gave $20,000 for the defense of Bernhard H. Goetz. Mr. Goetzis being sued by a black man who was left paralyzed after Mr. Goetz shot him on a Manhattan subway in 1984. NEW YORK CITY - Bob Grant, a radio talk show host known for his provocative and racist comments, was taken off the air following a particularly offenisve remark he made about former United States Secretary NATO policing Bosnia. The reason I bring this summarized account u,p is that I am not talk- ing about the deadly shelling, rather the President's speech. President Clinton ;s offthe cuff remar!(, and later NATO inac- tion, made the military alliance, the strongest military force in the wor~d and history, ineffec- tive in deterrence. With one statement repeated many times and not implemented, forty-five years ofCold War defense and readiness deterrence, destroyed NATO's ability to influence some, not all, of the events in Bosnia. Yes, NATO is just as strong militam:v as it was before tlie:srat-ements~ ¥es, Eutope r~i, sisted the mo:ve for air strikes and arming the Muslims, be ... cause they had troops on the ground in potential danger. A force that kept the Russians out of Western Europe, however, seemed intimidated by the bully-taunting attacks of the Serbs. Titis is not to say that when NATO acted forcefully with decisive air raids before Day- ton, it was not successful, and that NATO patrols in Bosnia under the command of Admi- ral Leighton Smith are not con- ducting their mission with skill, courage., and forcefulness. The . . ':'...~: . . ~ . of C()mmerce Ronald H. Brown, an Mrican-American who died in a plane crash near. Dubrovnik, Croatia earlier this month. LOS ANGELES - In the case ofErik ao.dLyle Menendez, the California brothers who were recently convicted of brutally murdering theit parents in 1989, a jury recommended that they should spend the rest of their lives in prison. The state pros- ecutor had argued in favor of the death penalty. larger context in which I am speaking about is that Presiden- tial speech is important, and it really means something. Any word that the President .of the United Statesmakes public will be heard by fereign leaders and American and foreign citizens. Any stated threat must have the conviction behind it that it will be acted on. One reason for why the Soviet Union did not attack the United States with nuclear missiles was due to the absolute certainty ofretaliation. Ifthe Soviets suspected that the threat was not real, even for one moment, then Washington, D.C. would be scattered with mushroom clouds. Now, hav,. ing said this there is an advan- tage to not always letting your opponent know in precise, ex- act tenns what you are going to do. This gives the President an advantage, in that it creates unpredictability for the enemy. The flaw in this reasoning is that it gives the other side room to move - in short it could back- fire. The simple fact is appease- ment must not be tolerated in any form. Once the threat is made, and once it is on thetable, to back away is a form of ap- peasement. Regardless of whether Bill Clinton or Beh Dole wins the ALICE, TEXAS - Health offi- cials began killing 48 monkeys at a primate breeding center that may have been exposed to a deadly strain of the Ebola virus. BOSTON - In the 1 OOth annual running of the Boston Mara- thon, the winner among men was Moses T:anui ofKenya, and the winner among women was Uta Pippig of Germany, who captured her third consecutive title. MONTANA- fu the cabin of Unabomber suspect Theodore Number of Persons Per Physician, Brazil Egypt India Ethiopia Mali Selected Countries, 1995 .225 .345 .. 391 -570 -648 -848 1,698 189 ource: 1996 World Almanac and Book of Facts . 67,789 White House in November, the Presi-dent must guard his speech. While the President is entitled to free speech, this ar- tiCle talks about only speech in his official duties. The Presi- dent should go through a spe- cial strategy session each morn- ing devoted to specific areas of policy that should not be dis- cussed with reporters. This .is not a violation of free speech or freedom ofthe,press. The Presi- dent has the duty to keep his speech guarded, because of the dangers that his words can cause. When the President is jogging or doing something outside,the Wh,ite House and meet~ infannaiLy·lNith reporters, his mouth should not be open for extended periods of time. The President's advisors must hammer home the idea that an effective President does not speak every minute and every hour to reporters. Franklin D. Roosevelt limited his fireside chats. during the 1930's, be- cause he understood that his message would carry better if it was carried over the radio less often. Part of the reason that Presidents speak so much today is because of the television cam- eras. Presidential silence (by si- lence I mean speaking less by J. Kaczynski, agents oftheFed- eral Bureau of Investigation (FBI) reportedly found a wealth of evidence, including the ad- dresses of corporate executives, explosive devices, five guns, street maps of San Francisco, and hundreds of books. WYOMING • In trying to be~ come the youngest person to fly an airplane across the United States, seven year-old Jessica Dubroff met an untimely death. Dubroff, her father, and her flight instructor were killed when the airplane crashed in the middle of a storm near Chey- enne, Wyoming~ HOUSTON- In Texas, authori- ties are planning to dismantle a statewide minority scholarship program that the state had cre- ated under a Federal desegrega- tion order. This announcement came in reaction to a recent Fed- eral court ruling that struck down race-based preferences in admissions at the University of Texas Law School. LONDON • An explosion rocked an expensive residential district of west London after a warning call attributed to the Irish Republican Anny. No one was hurt in the explosion. the President of his own voli- tion, and not the claim .of ex- ecutive privilege between the President and Congress) may not be good for reporters, but it makes the President a more ef- fective leader. The proper re- sponse to the Serb shelling should be, \We will consult with our allies, and determine the best course of action.\ Not very forceful, but until the threat can be made real, that is the line the President must re- spond with. No ultimatums, no threats, no policy ideas, no \If they do this, we will do that.\ The rage might be burning within hiJn, but hi~ speech must be moder~t~d. Urttil the rage. anger, and frustration; can be channeled into a rationally co- ordinated policy, it is not in the best interest of the country for the President to speak without thinking. The President must respond to these acts, but he must respond in a sensible man- ner. No person is reasonable all the time, but the advisors to the President have this most im- portant job of making him speak with reason. A few words by the President could lead to American soldiers dy- ing in battle. LffiERIA - Following a full- scale evacuation effort, only about fifty Americans remained in this war-tom West African state. While Americans fled the country, the factional leaders of Liberia tried to maintain a fragile truce in their seven-year civil war. CAIRO - In of the deadliest attacks on foreigners by Egyptian terrorists, gunmen opened fire on a group of Greek tourists outside their hotel, killing 18 people and wounding at least 17 others. WASHINGTON - In response to a growing sentiment in Congress and among alli~d nations to ban the use of land mines, the Clinton Administration is circulating a proposal that would eliminate their use by United States forces, but not until the year 2010. QANA, Lebanon- At least 75 Lebanese civilians were killed when the Israeli Army accidentally fired an artillery barrage into a United Nations peacekeeping camp. The Israeli attack came in response to rocket and mortar fire by Hezbollah guerrillas near the refugee camp. l

()PIED \ . · . <Lip~· ([nun1rbil'llS is ·.April 25~ · 1996 · Page 8 Opinions And Editorial Hazing Never Happens At Union College! As we all well know, hazing is a practice that has long since been eliminated here at Union. In other good news world peace has been, established, and the library has been completed. Most of you are probably sitting there scratching your heads won .. • dering when it was that the editors lost their minds and went over the • deep end. That of course is the point; everyone knows that hazing is common place here, but no one ordinarily says or does anything about it. So how are we as an institution to deal with the fact that we openly engage in and tolerate a practice which glorifies humiliation, physical• discomfort and is adverse to any intellectual pursuit. When confronted in an open assembly most students will agree. that hazing is wrong; behind closed doors, clearly these students think and act differently. What is almost more disturbing than the fact that hazing is commit- 1ted is the way in which it is kept silent. Every pledge and brother. !knows the unspoken rule that if anyone came forward with allegations of hazing, they would be blackballed. Moreover,. anyone who came forward against hazing would be subjected to physical intimidation, social ostracization and ridicule. Does the administrati()n kno'Y that hazing is going on? Does the Administration know where hazing is going on, or do they care? The · student body seems to have a fairly good idea, maybe some day the administration will stop looking the other way and do something. Perhaps we will one day go to a school where people don't feel the · ~eed to get into a group and abuse and humiliate other people in the ~arne of \bonding\ or group cohesion. Or shall we one day haze !Perspective friends before we hang out with them? I guess the answet ~o our questions lies witl1in. If the reaction to this editorial is typical, (i.e. the allegatiq.n that this editorial is just another \attack\ on the Greek system as part of the grand \conspiracy\ to eliminate Greeks), than clearly Union students as a whole :see nothing wrong with haz\ ing. The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Anthony C. La Vecchia,Adrian MacLean '. EDITORS-1N~HIEF David Pinkowitz EXECUTIVE EDITOR Diana Sedita Evan Morris EDITORS EMERITI . Steph1m~e Slobotkin NEWS E\()ITOR Larr)'Paska . ARTS EDITOR Scott Stedman LAYOUT EDITOR Adam J. Richman ASSOCIATE EDITOR Rick Lederer Laurel Ruma PHOTO EDITORS Stephanie Kuehn COPY EDITOR · Peter Farnum Jen Pelose ASSIST ANT COPY EDITORS AnandRiio WORLD NEWS· EDITOR DavidEder Chris Richards LIVING EDITORS Dennis Popeo SCIENCE EDITOR Andrew Fradkin COMPUTER MANAGER Barry Eisenberg ON-LINE DIRECTOR Jared Richman CARTOONIST Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR Raqnel Millman OPINlONS EOITOR Jonathan Fader Eric Svenson SPORTS EDITORS PHOTOGRAPHERS: Scott Drocketniller, Laurie Kirschner, Shaun• Paul Manore. STAFF: Dagan LaCorte, Greg Kalish, Omar Al-Khalidl, Jeff Druzba, Jon .Gasthalter, Mike Leding, Conot McKenzie, Bbavani Meduri, Martin Metz, Jody M()U!!!Ieau, Aaron Sicotte, Aileen Quigly, Kathy Walters~ Karen Watts, Michelle Neier A Wake Up Call to Union Colle,ge by RaqueiMiDman Opinions Editor the front of the room was glow- the viewers of \Queer I 01,\ but ing. Her name was Mer~qith and, QJ).Ce tile film had began, the au- just as I had never ~xp.ected this dience was captivated and forgot incredible tumout, she bad never about their-lack of comfort. The Last Thursday, Union College dreamed it. The mass of people docm:~entary was extremely tell- was presented with \Queer 10 1.\ shifted. once again to a room in in g. Not only did it make a state- Upon seeing the signs around the Social Sciences building, but ment about homosexuality, it also campus, my initial reaction was still there was not enough room. demonstrated the homophobia that no one on campus would go. Every desk was taken, every space on the Union College campus to I also ,noticed t~at some. people , . of flo.or occu~i~d 'Yit~ sitting or the n;ore, <;>pen-1llinded students were even hanging the flyers up standmg bodtes:', · thatweri!in attendance. I am not aromfd=-the ·dorms to make fun· of · · Meredith 'toJdithe !ff1ofu that she ~ t:t)tifig :to~-;.sdrthd ·as tbough\1' ex- itdJ:§lffi6st extJectM'S'i\c'!i'l:lhild- -··had:.cltio.kea''for{ wotksh<lp to - :Ptec'fe'(friJRtb1fSthiteiitHo ·op~nly ish behavior from the Union Col- · · bring' to Unio:J;l regf!rding h01ho- . iJJk or-their sexual preference in le~~ 711 5\U:~ents due . t,o· how.;, se~~~l'awarenes~; libwevei; there Qle ... docdhi~nt,ary; however~. it is hOmophdbtc most ofth1s campus was no such program. 'Meredith important to note that the reason is; but I ~ever expected' whath<jp- . ''explained that 'she \\ioutd not aban- . t{{a,t'tdid noia'n:iicipate such par- pened on the night of \Queer ' don the concept, so she made her ticipation was b~~ause of the at- 101.\ . . own. She went to vari,~:ms colleges titudes 01,1. .this campus towards I went to the designated room · in the Capital 'J:)istiict and inter- homos~xuals. The only contribu- written on the flyerJn the College , ,. viewed homosexuals _tl;tat were tion that liW.on put in,to tflis film, Center only to find that it was : willing to t;;tlk witl1 her., ~er-doeu- b~sides the prQduc~r/ditector, empty. I felt disheartened. FJ:o>V- mentary tou~hed on issues of was the gay-bashing· graffiti at ever, when I looked down hall in · .. coming o.ut, such asr~li:gion, poli- the end oftlre fihil. ·It is a pity that the women's center; I saw a cr-owd tics, the difference; o~:homosexu- while the .t0urs of .prospective of people. Theprogramhadbeen ality and bisexuality; family re- students go by, Union appears to moved to.a larger room. · sponse, and 1 other issues that af- be a liberal college. In reality, Iworkedmywayintotheroom feet the homosexual pQpulation. \Queer lOl'\s graffiti demon- and found a spot on :the floor. There was ati.ernphasison homo- strates horribly conservative ··':The roorn was packedbeyandits s-exuality. during th·e college thinking, capacity and there was a still a yeats. · · line outside the do0r. The gir~ in , The room was bar~ly holding op~~b~:~~~j:~~oftb~~i~adllll~ard~ atid~~·on~t~~~~1n;.~c~~. ~y' ' t.Wt thirupb)~ons ofihewriters ora.ttists 1 an<tn-otriecii!ssatilytlie·(}pinio.tls ofthe'l~ditotial ' :::·,·... ··'· .. :<.,··:.;,·:·· ,._,. __ .•._:'?<.::·(.: ', .-,,_,_;.::- '·{;;·.·, -:.\· _.,' ..... -·:-· ·-:-, .. :,_=.;/'<:.·--~-;,._:. ---->-:::· ·:,·.·:-·-.·' -···· .<' ·•e.:ns~~~t6Ailpe~s~1Ih:~~n¢~fdi&k~!~ae>~orue¢~~~iUli¥1#1¢~1U~~{1~~~~~·,~pm~~~f&~a..~~it£•.,: : · TfleCQflcttrdi is:Pl,ll>lisl)ed~i~b,t~tf;i~s~'f¢lJ11•~1tb:estud~tits·tit-:lJ,m6 . ·· · .· lfisftinded1tt; · · • •. 1heSt~deJ1tActi·· ... $11~.-'ifheCoJJcvrdJ~~s<fs; . ,._ ···)9__ · · . •-•·· .... ·. i$~'7~~~(:olles~~ · 'UnionCoJlege~Sel1e*tady,NewYorkt23o8. Tel . . · .. 1~· ·.. .. . . . . ,Qo~c6rdi~nsf$.i~prirttedl>y · .... · •. ·Media, 1104 CettttalA :Venue, AlbanY· ~Y~ r~:z~;;, .rbetan,coJ!~l¢J1$~·'$Ub$crl,~~~to~e Xt\ter~ollegiate Pra~~'(lfl)~: : . · National Student News Servicet & .K.mg Syndicates: · · ·· · · · · · · · · · · ·. ' · ·· ·· · · ··.· · ·· · ·. · ·. · · · · . . . . ' ... ' ,. - ', i ;· __ :'\.- . __ .. ~- ' . . . ·' • ' ~- . ··.: ... ' INTERNET AND E-MAIL ADRRESSES I E-Mail Us at Concordy@gar.union.edu. or on tl1e World Wide Web@ http:/Mrtual.union.edui\-Concordy/ .index.htrnl. All E-mail submissions must be recieved by 5 PM the Monday before·publication, and must be less than 500 words. Please see the Opinions policy on the opposite page for more details '\

•. 6~ ~ ;,~- , ••. .-~-~~ .... ,_ \\'f• ,._ .... ..-..., ~-~ ...,..,., .. •·o~ ~ .. \t<!> ... ~N,......,. ...... ..,.. .... ..-. __ ,. ........ .,. •.. .,...,..,~ ... ,.._,. \'• • .... ,.. . .., '\'- \'\~'\\t··~ ...... ,. .,.. -• ·- 'fl\'\' -- .,_ ,_ \\ • • .., ,.. • •- '\'-·o • ,. • - - • ., . ~ Page 9 · April 25~. 1996 · Q]~c ([tntrnri'ticusis . OP/E D · · Opinions and Editorial Political Thoughts by H~nrikHaetkel Staff Writer It is a Presidential election year. Youc~feel it. Oneseesthemak,.. ings of the dirty, .mud slinging ads brewing in the campaign camps. The nasty unsubst~tiated alle- gations are beginning to appear. The mass manipulation of public opinion has begun. As loyal American voters, it is our solemn duty to wade through the dirt and grime to select our next leader. The importance ofsuch a deci- sion cannot be undermined. The President's powers are limited by the constitution, but Presidents are our visual embodiments of America. Theirabilityto lead and direct issues tQ the forefront ranks them amongthemostpow- erful and influential global fig- ures. At home, they help dictate the legislative agenda while evaluating the state of the union. So when we vote this fall, we select our direction for the next four years. As members .of the younger generation, the genera- tion that has followed the Baby Boomers, we have not begun to form an identity. Rather, we have become victims of circumstance. Our generation does not have the opportunities afforded the Boomer Generation. \Our answer to the famous question, 'What do you want to be when you grow up?' is 'Employed\'(Joanne Gordon, Chi- cago). The upswing of the eight- ies has left the nation With an im- mense debt and large perennial budget deficits. As the elderly population in- creases, the government is forced to draw increasingly on younger people to support their entitlement programs, a substantially smaller pool of younger people. These entitlement programs are the sa- cred cows .of government. The American Association of Retired Persons is such a feared lobby- ing organization, that no politician, with any future aspimtions~ is will- ing to confront them. As a conse- quence, seniors enjoy more gov- ernment benefits and tax breaks then do their younger counter- parts. For example, \In 1990, a couple in their twentie.s with one worker, a baby, and $30,000 in in- come had to pay five times as much to the government ($5,055) as the typical retired couple in their sixties. This is with the same in- come from public and private pen-. sions ($1,073)\ (U.S. Congress, Ways and Means Committee staff n:port). This is not an unique occur- rence. Our generation has suf- fered through cut backs in educa- tion and higher education as well as unfair tax codes that favor the elderly, who have already had an opportunity to earn money .. Couple this with the looming in .. creases in elderly entitlements as the aging of the Boomer Genera- tion joins the ranks ofthe elderly, and there is grim picture. In the face ofthis unpleasant reality it is in our own best interest to push the issue to our elected officials. If this problem is addressed now, or in the near future, we may be able to avoid an even more enor- mous disaster. So when you cast your ballot in the midst of the cam- paign propaganda, remember, you have enormous stake in the out- come. Singled Out! Last week a version of ous disciplinary action was taken. fer to call them, discriminated \singled out\ occurred at Union I have yet to hear any serious dis- against a small group of students College. No, this was not the ciplinary action t~en against the because of their sports affiliation. MTV. version with J en non-athletes involved in the sk:ir- One of these students was ex- McCarthy, but it did involve a mish. The Union Football team pelled from Union for his actions. small pool of male Union athletes was singled out in. the dealing out Ifhe was not a football player and that were put Qn center stage. of discipli,ne.. l feel this is totally Greek pledge, would tb,e;;t.dminis- Their prizes ranged from dis- ridiculous. There were others who tration have come do~<as hard? missal t::~ removal from their were also involved, but they get I don't think so! sport's team. If you have not off scotch free. Ifthe school wants The administration sent a clear guesseditbynow,Iamreferring tobejudge,jury,and executioner, signal out to all of the student to the Union Football Team. Dis- they could at least be a little demo- body. If you are Greek or an ath- ciplinary action came down and cmtic in the handling of punish- Jete or a combination of the two, came down very hard for the ment. watch your back. The pat on the vaunted campus brawl a week In an age where we pride our- back by the administration when earlier. selves in fairness and anti-dis- you excel in sports or do some- The young athletes paid a criminatory practices, the Union thing positive in Greek life is just high price for being involved. Football Team was quite unfairly to see where to best plunge the Fights do happen from time to taped. The Stalinist-like Authori- dagger when you are down! time, but this is the first incident tative Regime or Union Deans and Signed, since Ihave beennerewere seri- Administration, whateveryoupre- Frank \Preacher\ Nobis Theme houses are the administration'scu:re to the Greek · syste:m. Even though President Hull wouldtell anyone willing to listen that he is the biggest Greek supporter, he, alo11.g with the rest of the administration, is ready to slowly \allow\ the Greek system to disappear from Union College. Theiridea to replace the over 171 year tradition of Fraternities and the more recent Sorority system is the 'fliEME HOUSING. I have' heard many people criti- cizing the Greek system because they fee1 that it is a closed sys- tem that is very elitist and adds nothing to tlie Union College community. However, I would like to quickly remind people that the Greek system which has been on this campus since Kappa Alpha was established in 1.825 has sus- tained this college in good and bad times. Most students who read the poster-laden walls ofthe college center mtLst have noticed thatFratemities along with Sorori- ties contribute to the Schenectady community along with Union College by way of fundraisers alld charity drives. Alumni ofFratern.ities and Sorori- ties have continued to give back Theme Houses? to the community long after they have graduated. So it is not that hard to believe thatthe Greek sys- tem is an asset to the community atiarge. The Theme houses proposed this year are also useful to the Union College community, don't get me wrong. But are they, or should they .be used as a replace- ment for the Greek system? This is the question I would like to pose. With Zeta Beta Tau leaving the college community the Stu- dent Affairs·Council was given the task of finding bodies to fill their house. Their choice for this \house\ were among two Greek organizations, an Asian Theme house; and others. The verdict: the Asian Theme House was awarded the housing located in Davidson. Well I guess we can not argue with the Council's decision, but let's get real. For a second look at what the result has given the com- munity: a dilemma. The dilemma is that the Student Affairs Coun- cil has given the housing to a group which can not fill it-not even close (only five applications are reportedly filed at the time of this publication). I feel that this them~ house C!lll offer a lot to the community, but in a:ll honesty the two Greek organizations could have filled the house without any problems~ and as I see it offer a lot back to the community. The choice of the Student Af- fairs Council is very .plain in my eyes: their job was to find some- one to fill the house while adding to the community-sad to say the proposed Asian theme house does not meet the criteria, unlike either of the Greek organizations. Why did they choose to give the house to the \inadequate\ Asian house? The answer is simple, the Administration wants to make sure Greeks, whether on or off campus, have a hard time so that all Greeks will be jolted off cam- pus, and stay off. This is very troublesome to me seeing as how President Hull has, at countless points; said that he is pro-Greek. I would cha1lenge the Administra- tion to look into this discrimina- tory action against the Greek sys- tem ofUnion College. I am willing to sit down with any person on the Administration to discuss this matter, and hope that they will look into this grave injustice. Joshua P. Katz '97 Is Union ''Fantasy Land''? by Tobias Len Staff Writer In my past three years at Union College, I have grown to like and dislike many of the Qpinions of the people that make up the Union College community. This is an opportunity for me to dis- play disgust at one major theme I often hear at UniQn. It is a fact that there are many people on this campus who continuously make fun of the city of Schenectady, for what they believe to be valid reasons. I am here to say that this is wrong and should not be tolerated. First of all, anyone who is involved with Union and, at the same, cuts on Schenectady, is a hypocrite. They are hypo- crites because of all the colleges in America, and there are many, they decided to come to Schenectady. Union is a pretty highly regarded academic institution and, therefore, it makes sense that a student choosing Union, in most cases, probably had an abun- dance of academic opportunities. Therefore, when I hear anti- Schenectady statements coming from the mouth of a student, I cannot help but look at that student as a hypocrite. Union has little diversity. The majority of students that attend Union have rich parents. Just take a look into any of the parking lots. You are lying to yourself if you drive a 20,000 dollar car and at the same time think you deserve it. You certainly have not earned it. People who make fun of Schenectady are elitist. They live in a fantasy world. Schenectady is real life; Westchester County is not. Real life America is not this great place where everybody gets everything they want. Some people here are work- ing from paycheck to paycheck just trying to survive. These are the people illustrating what America is about, not some spoiled, rich little brat who drives his father's Acura around campus. If you are in this boat, and a good number of Union students are, I ask you to stop and think about the next time you make fun of Schenectady. Chances are, you are struggling within yourself because you have always gotten everything you wanted. This is the first time you have seen t.he other ~ide, and you feel the need to cut on it. The reality and bitter irony is that Schenectady is actually helping you. Schenectady is home to Union, and Union is where you are developing your ideas to help make you a better person. Self images are More Complex Then they may seem I would like to commmend Rawson Thurber on the article he published last week regarding women and their fetish with weight loss. Weight loss among women is a serious problem and should be addressed. However, I do not agree with his conclusions that women should simply begin to love themselves. Telling a woman to love herself is not as easy as prescribing medicine. Many women simply do not want to love themselves or do not know how. Loving oneself is agonizing and challeng- ing, especially here at Union. Like the alcoholic, they find it is easier to diet than to love that person in the mirror. Sacrificing their dignity is easier than being proud of who they are. Just as the alcoholic escapes himself or herself by drowning in liquor, the dieting woman escapes by chainng herself to the bathroom scale. Her additction is complex, difficult to analyze and it is killing her. Yet, we do nothing for her excpet to say \love yourself' and society will treat you better. Stacy Tamburrino \ ,.

. on Saturdays or Sundays, hut hey, it's the weekend. Perhaps not a ~ell thought out a policy, but at least somewhat respectable. I'd wager that if president Hull ever found hiinself in a situation where he had' to use a Davidson bathroom after a l<mg weekend, the bathrooms would soon be cleaned on weekends-· · yes, even on weekends. Force-fed Enlightenment Interestingly, after continued thought, I've determined that President Hull in fact must be aware of just how filthy and pes-. tilence ridden our bathrooms are on weekends. The administrative decision to bring Union college's service decjsion to a halt is not just poor planning. On the con- trary, it is all part of a big con- spiracy to force us to appreciate the other beautiful and newly renovated bathrooms on campus; the basement of tlie Nott Memo- rial, the second and fourth floors of the college center to name a few. The absolutely disgraceful condition of dormitory bath- rooms after a weekend without cleaning forces many students to embark on a quest to find a cleaner seat. by Conor McKenzie Staff Writer Just as Rousseau once wrote that sometimes \people must be forced to be free\ so has Union college taken the path of force- fed enlightenment. Its various administrative decisions often seem, foolish, ridiculous, or just plain idiotic. However, as I have learned it is foolish to judge these decisions on their face value alone; many have immeasurable hidden value. Take the administration's freshman policy on cars and parking, which essentially is \freshman can't have cars\. At first glance it would seem that there isn't enough space to park. by Jeffery Druzba Staff Writer It seems like only a short while ago when we were kids with our friends, when we carried the bag- gage of being a kid in the little plaid suitcases of our minds. Now, many years later, our heads being bigger suitcases with wheels and handles, what seemed a lot to manage as a child is now stacked in that button up flap on the inside of the open top section. That's where things get lost the easiest though and, in much the same way, our childhoods disap- pear from our lives. Close your eyes for a moment and return there in an instant. Those times, the times when you were a kid, ru:e indisputably the best years of your life. Sure, you've had memories at college and great things have happened·. Awards, honors, high school. Quite possibly you'll be married someday. The days gone by are special though. You didn't need anything but your friends as a cause for celebration. It was sum- mer or it was winter, you were with your best buddies, it was the greatest. The Outfield ... not the baseball position, but rather the group. I listened to them at length on Fly 92, the station of the heyday of my youth. Back when songs were good. I mean really good. Back when we turned on the radio and the Outfield would be singing about how \Josie's on a vacation far away ... \ Listening to the ra- clio all summer while playing bad- minton in the street or actually, rather having contests to see how long we could \keep the birdie going\ (no bounces allowed), the record for this being somewhere Therefore, the decision to sacri- fice the freedom of freshman in order to make the \upperclass- men\ more comfortable is .quite normal. If one were to stop ex- amining there, one would pass this off as simple case of hazing the initiates in order to make things more convenient for full- members of the Union College community. However, ifyou then take into consideration the fact that there is vast space available behind Richmond, you wonder why the administration doesn't allow freshman to park on campus. Well it turns out that while space might be a superficial motivation for frosh parking restrictions, the real wisdom behind this decision is quite profound. It turns out that the administration doesn't allow freshman to have cars so that they won't leave campus. They feel that if we have no way to leave, that we will Jearn to fully appreciate our beautiful square mile of Schenectady. Parking is only one example of the administrations policy of force-feeding. Recently, I have uncovered far more complicated (but none-the-less wise) deci- sions in order to enlighten the student body. Take for example the administrations policy of giv- ing virtually every service staffer the weekend off. It might seem annoying that the bathrooms don't get cleaned, the snow doesn't get shoveled, ancl the \One Sunday morning I had to take care ofbusiness. Fearing disease, I couldn't enter any of the bathrooms in my dorm. So, I went for a walk and found my- self in Steinmetz Hall. As I sat The Things We All Share in the 200's after a long summer after them, stopping them at any each of us was and had fun any- of practice. cost. Yelling ahead toteammates, way. .. Listening to the rad!o when the \I've ~tone after me? go the We all had \the field.''.and.\the Beastie· Boys were riding the other w~y!\ The seekers shouting woods\ and it's interesting that popularity of their debut release their own warnings of\Headhim we all pretty much shared the \License to lll\ we would play off at the creek!'' or \She's off the same experience. Every genera- hackey sack but down by the big trail!\ All the time, although we tion shares a common experience long needled pine just down the were nowhere near a radio, the that only they may share. There street. Hackey sack when it was songs were still playing through was something, and I dare say it, the thing to do. Hackey sack when our heads loud and clear, \It was something magic about those it first came out, while listening the heat of the moment...\ A cer- summers that I don't think hap- to \Brass Monkey\ liking the tain something in the air? Some- pens these days. I can,t imagine rhymes but not really understand- thing we can't explain but must kids having the same fun and re- ing the words until several years also admit. Switching our atten- membering their summers of later when we suspected it was a tion to Capture The Flag in The gangsta rap and Mariah Carey. I beverage. Woods rather than Hide and Go don't think that music today rides The radio playing other songs Seek. Each team hiding the flag upon the air in the same way that like \Owner of a Lonely Heart\ somewhere in their loosely de- the music of the· eighties did. and \Africa\ while we took to fined territ~ry. Anything fair Eighties music was part of the air, \the field\ (didn't every kid have game, up trees and under bushes. breathable. one of tliose nearby?). Tiu': field Matches lasting for hours at a And the winters, long winters that we split in half with a length time. Running through the woods sledding over vacation and every of old kite string and set up some as fast as we could. Dressing in weekend after that. Sledding was of the best Capture the Flag tour- dark colors of blues, blacks, and the winter substitute for the fun naments around on. That same greens which would definitely be of tlie summer. Getting com- field being the site of winter fun an advantage as the sun went pletely bundled up and taking to as well and one of my projects one down. Everyone with an equal the woods, a place we discovered winter, to make tons ofhuge balls chance at being the hero of the somewhat on accident but quickly of snow throughout the field, game. When the game was won came to know it as well as our- Balls of snow .. almost as tall as I or when everyonehad to go home selves. A hill that went almost was that served no purpose. The (whichever came first), we would straight down, almost a vertical excitement of possibly having walk back slowly, recounting that wall of ice, that cleared into a field them recognized as the next great we all had the best hiding spot but at the bottom. Devil's Run, The mystery of the world, up there we weren't going to tell wliere it Wall, or call it what you will. A with Stonehenge and Easter Is- was. Reliving how you were spy- hill so steep that you could quite land. Snow until we couldn't roll ing on them the entire time and possibly freeze your eyelids shut it any more and th.e outside layer you knew where their flag was with ice if you weren't careful ofit was practically dirt and.grass anyway and how much it was when zipping down it. Lance because the pressure of the snow defended. All the time, Toto and froze his eyelids shut for a minute picked it up that deep. Balls of the J. Geils Band whispering in or two one time. We didn't know snow with no purpose other than your ear. what to do but then they opened to be balls of snow in a field. Those summers were what you again and we continued on our Back to summer though. Even- live the rest of your life trying to way. Later, we discovered the tually, we had the idea to move reach but never can quite make it other hilL One n@t so steep but a our attention to '!the woods\ (and to. Those summers are what drive hill that was such a great ride that yes, didn't we all have those as smne to remember and others to it became the focus of our sled· well1) Hide and go seek with forget. Some of us were older and ding adventures. We even discov- teams anyone? Two teams of some of us were younger by a ered a shortcut to get to it that about ten, one hiding and the grade or even two. Those were the went through The Hutchins' yard. other running through the woods summers when ~e forgot howold His mother would al\:ays yell at on the antique nor·cel;am. to novel, and began writing furi- ously. Though the toilet seat cut off the circulation to my legs, I finish·ed the first few chapters .. .I'm c.urrently negotiat- ing a cash advance from several major publishing houses ... If I could, I'd just like to thank the administration for forc- ing me to search for a better place ... something hard-earned is precious indeed.\ Astudent who writes under the pen name of \Mo\ related this inspiring Story to me, which, honestly, is one ef the most wonderful stories I'v~ ever been told. On behalf ofMo, and count- less other students whose lives have been affected, I'd first like to praise th.e administration. However; I'd also like to urge the administration to take a more aggresive approach to their forced enlightenment. Why not cutback further and clean the batlirooms, say, every other Thursday. The bathrooms would be so unsanitary, that every stu- dent would have no choice but to e~perience some of the other beautiful toilets on campus. To the students, I'd like to say that they should appreciate all the ad- ministration has done for them. Who knows, you might sit on the same seat that Chester Arthur used when he was a student. us and we would be forced to talk back. I think she even threatened us with. police action several times. \Yeah Ma'am, we'll send someone right over to stop these horrible kids from cutting through your yard. They'll learn their les- son after we rough 'em up a bit.\ The shortcut was a bit more of a hike but worth it in the time saved to get there. Down the ravine and back up the far side, then through the trees, and you were there at the top of the .hill. The trail was a perfect one for our purposes be- cause the snowmobiles and 4- wheelers woutd ride up and down it and ice would cover it in the middle of the night. Lay your sled down, sit on your knees, and stay on the course. I must admit, it was a better hill than most kids get to ever see. I don't lie when I say it was about a minute to get down the whole thing, it had a big hair- pin nun, and the speeds must have reached about 20 miles per hour on the solid ice! I have this clear memory of the day that I was the first one to- go over the jump in tact; probably due to my ski jumper's technique at the take-off. (I try not to still be too proud of myself for that.) If one of the snowmobiles came, the people at the bottom would yell up, ·~snowmobile!\ and the test of us would instinc- tiyely dive for the side. The name of the hill, as we decided, Y amahonda Hill. You can under~ stand why. Might I ask only one thing? Please, unpack your baggage and rearrange it evety once in~ while. Make sure you know where ev- erything is. Strap things in with those belt holpers. And if you've still got that little plaid suitcase, use it for what it was made for.

The Big Mom,ents Student of the Week by Jeffery Druzba Features Editor People 5;ay that it's hard to ever forget what you were doing atthe moment when-you learned of in- cidents that have since been rec- ognized as great moments in his- tory: JFK'sassassination~ Nixon's Tesignation, the Challengerexplo- sion~ OJ's verdict, that sort of thing. Strangely enough, Ire·· member my share of completely insignificant events as well, in much the 'Same way. Where were you when you had your first Cool Ranch :Oorito? I remember the time I went to the convenience store with the twins next door and their mother. They hegged her to get a bag ofthe new flavor. I just stood there and hoped that they were .successful and that she would give in. Deep down, she probably wanted to be one ofthe first to experience them as well. She handed us the bag and in that moment, history was made. There was now a new fla- vor of Doritos, and it was much better than the original. In their corporate offices, the boys at Frito Lay probably felt the cold chill of yet another sucker in their ag- gressive advertising campaign. When Coke II came out, I re- member that I was with iny dad in the supermarket, and we got one of those 2 liter bottles of it. When we sampled it at home, it turned out that it was the most foul tasting product we had ever had. I don't think we finished the bottle. In their orporate offices, the boys at Coca-Cola probably felt the cold chill of a :'l~ultimil­ lion dollar mistake. A new show called MacGyver premiered, and it changed my TV watching life. I still remember that first episode. MacGyver proba,bly accounted for half the sales ofSwiss Atmy knives in the country that year. I admit that I thought it would make me cool. That show was probably res,pon- sible for my young chemist phase and my electrical engineer phase. Suddenly, it was cool to know abo~t things. I longed to make bombs out of fertilizer and duct tape. I wanted to know how to make a smokescreen out of vin- egar and sun block, just in case I ever got into a jam. Just in case a bunch of bad guys ever got hold of me and I wouldn't give them the microchip, for example. That way, I could escape and foil their plans. Who could forget the last epi- sode of Cheers? Where were you when yon found out that JR was dead? I get to thinking about these things and, strangely enough, I discover that all of these memo- ries have something to do with advertising campaigns or TV. I think I fit the ideal market stan- dards for modern American big business. That's part of what American cult'\ , is about. It's a combina- tion c,. •1 the big moments in our minds. It. ~•·e collective memo- ries we all share that make us one, no matterltew grand or insignifi- cant those memories and experi- ences may be. It's funny how your first taste of a Dorito can make you into an American. Frito Lay works in mysterious ways. by K~ra Christian Staff Writer This week we would like to honor the talents and achievements of senior Biology major,. Mar• guerite Stimphil. Mar- guerite initially came to · UnionasaPre-Med/Bi- ology major, but was · turned on to research through her various ex- periences here at Union, and in turn is swaying toward a, career in this f!eld. Marguerite has been · lucky enough to have had many opportunities and experiences in the research field. She has attended various work- . shops and conferences. This winter, Marguerite spent the month of Jrum- ary in South Africa par- ticipating in a research workshop titled \Imag- ing Cellular Dynamics • During Development and Reproduction.\ A · diverse group of forty- eight students from around the world at- . tended the workshop. Marguer .. ite claims this was a great experi- ence for her. The program gave · students, like Marguerite, the op- portunity to study the live cell and to utilize various techniques to manipulate. certain factors: of it. ~. \!-.. ... '' •• At the workshop, Marguente received valuable hands-on expe- rience. Marguerite strongly val- ues the education and experience she has received through the Bi- Stimphil Reflects on South Africa by Marguerite Stimphil Contributing Writer This past January .(4 - 24), I at- tetlded an international workshop entitled, \Imaging Cellular Dy- namics during Development and Reproduction\ in Soutl:t Africa. I was made aware of this unique opportunity by my Research Ad- visor, Professor Danowski in the Biology Department. Subse- quently, I applied, and this trip became a reality thanks to her ef· forts as well as the efforts of Pro- fessor Tobiessen, who was able to arrange partial funding from the Howard Hughes Foundation Grant. The workshop was held at the University of _Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa where a diverse group of 48 stu- dents from all over the world came tegether to learn about sci- entific research. Renowned scien- tists/instructors shared their knowledge with us during work- shops that consisted of stimulat- ing lectures on various aspects of the cell. In addition, intensive laboratory work provided hands- on experience using the latest techniques and technology to ex- plore the cell as it changes dur- ing reproduction and develop- · ment. Surprisingly,. many of the techniques used were not all new to me for I had been exposed to them previously in my biology laboratory course work here at Union. This truly made me real- ize and appreciate the quality of science education we receive here at Union. In addition to this invaluable research experience, learning about the history of South Africa contributed to making my expe- rience a most memorable one. We were fortunate enough to squeeze in some time for sight-seeing dur- ing the weekends. For instance, as I walked in the streets of Johannesburg, it was hard to be- lieve that less than three years ago, South Africa had rid itself of the devastating and destructive establishment of Apartheid. I couldn't imagine or rather didn't want to imagine what life was like before the rebirth of the \New South Africa.\ At times 1 couldn't help hut feel overwhelmed with emotion as I observed blacks and whites walking in the streets of Johannesburg -together- the way it should have always been. Visiting Soweto City, the larg· est black township in the West~ ern Hemisphere, was a rather so- bering experience. The sight of women, men, and children living in utter poverty was not pleasant. At the same time, I saw the hope of better things to come on their faces, and the heartfelt welcome with which we were greeted will alwaysremain with me. Needless to say, South Africa has come a long way and still has a long way to go as the rebuilding process continues. In essence, being able to inter- act at' an intellectual level with scientists and budding scientists like myself was truly a reward- ing experience. Also being ex- posed to so many different cul- tures and learning about each other was an· experience em- braced by everyone. Our lunch and dinner hours and any free time we had were usually filled with conversations oflife in each of our respective countries or places of origin. I will forever treasure these times spent in South Africa where scientific col- laborations and lasting friend- ships were formed even though separated by many miles. Thank goodness f{)r e-mail! I would like to thank Professor Danowski and Professor Tobiessen, the individuals prima- rily responsible for making this unique and memorable experi- ence possible. ology Department here at Union. Marguerite states, \I realized the education we get here at Union is reall¥ excellent. Through various laboratory course work, I had al- ready been exposed to many of the techniques that were intro- duced during the workshop ... I was one step ahead.\ This past March, Marguerite at- tended another workshop at the National Ilistitute of Health with two other Union students. This competitive program was titled \Introduction to Biomedical Re- search\. The four day workshop was,composed of visits to labo- ratories and various lectures which were all designed to in- troduce students to this area of research. Through her experiences, Mar- guerite has had the opportunity to ex- plore many different branches of research. During her intern- ship last summer in the Neuroscience Department at New York University, Marguerite devel- oped a strong inter- est in Neuroscience as she worked on a study titled \The M- fects of Malnutrition on Fear Conditioning in Rats\. Marguerite is to dedicated Biol- ogy and has a wide variety of unique ex- periences in her ma- jor. Her hard work and persistence have brought her much success. Marguerite hopes to pursue a ca- reer in research in an academic setting. She eventually hopes to attend graduate school. Interesting and intelligent, Marguerite is a great asset to our college com- munity. Marguerite acknowl- edges, \I have really been lucky to have had this variety of ex- perience. It all brings me one step closer to finding out what I'd eventually like to pursue. The Biology department has beena great help to me.\ Large 2 Bedroom Apartment •Short Walk to Campus •Clean, Safe, 2nd Floor • Always rented to Union Students $46() + Utils. Available 7/1/96 Call 377-5699. Leave Message. Volunteers Needed for Community Service Project VALE PARK CLEAN-UP Saturday, May 4th (Rain date: Saturday, May 11th) 9:00 am .. 4:00 pm Come anytime! Refreshments provided! Main Entrance: Nott Terrace, between Days Inn & 4 Seasons Wear long Pants & Long-sleeved Shirt Questions? Call Jim @ 34 7-4251 ' '

' .. I i Pane 1--, Qbe 0:LHirurbi£nsis Apt·l·l -,.::; 19()6 I· · ~::- - · - --, - .1vmg LIVING The Fantastic Four-------- by David Eder Living Editor The girls who live in the apartment above mine are an amazing group. Each has her own unique super power. To- gether they form a synergistic energy field that controls ev- erything which enters their sphere. Girl number 1: has the abil- ity to lighten up a room and brings a feeling of warmth and happiness to all she comes in contact with. Her power is derived from her smile - a smile which can soothe even the most savage of beasts. Girl number 2: has been gifted with a Cassandra-like ability to predict the future and has the power to look into a person's mind and discover their true person. She is beau- tiful and some have even said angelic, but do not let looks deceive you, her insights can I i be painful. Girl number 3: has the ability to melt men with her eyes,_ Her eyes resemble two perfect globes; they are dominated by the beauty and peace of the blue oceans and complimented by the sadness of the green earth. Girl number 4: is the newest member ,of the fantastic four~ Like a seraph, she is able to dance on the clouds. There was a worry that her initiation into the fantastic four would be difficult. This fear was unfounded. She has not only assimilated easily, but she seems to he a living ex- ample of the tenn \no worries.\ Together they form the Fan- tastic Four. Their hideout is masked on the outside as a simple two-story house, but inside it can only be compared to the bat- cave. It took me a long time to figure out whether the Fantastic Four was a good super hero team or an evil one. Like Cat Woman, they seemed to have both quali- ties, I wondered, what goes on up there? Are they determining the p e r.fect summertime attitude Don't just hit the beach, hit the books this summer and get a head start on your next semester. Enroll in one or both of Pace University's summer sessions. Courses are available in a wide variety of areas, From Business to Computer Science & Information Systems to Arts &Sciences, Nursmgalld Educauon_ And six·week sessions allow for plenty of summertime living, Summer session students enrolled in at least 6 credits may live on either the NewYork City or Westchester campuses for only $64 a week. Amazing when you consider all you'll be close to--.the.South Street Seaport; Greenwich Village, Lmle Italy, Chinatown and Central Park, Not thedty type? Then consider our Pleasantville campus, where you'll find swimming, jogging and tennis facilities. ,.,---'\\ Don't procrastinate! Spaces are filling up quickly. Register today irt r e~lt e-r order to make the most of your s~mmer. For more information, -<:,;:7 call914•773•3700, Extension 9319ore-mali infoc:tr®ny027 .wan.pace.edu SUMMER SESSION ~ BEGINS JUNE 3, 1996 SUMMER SESSION '2J BEGINS JULY 1S, 1996 PACE UNIVERSITY $/lll)l11t'l'•;>t'.:-SIOI1 For Sale: POOL TABLES, (two), sed, EXCELLENT CONDITION. Solid slate with top quality covering. Handsome side wood paneling. Both are 46 inches wide. One is 78 inches long, the other 82 inches. Prices are $800 and $1200. Includes a set of Aramith balls, cue sticks, and racks. Will deliver and set up. ·Can be seen Mon.-Fri. mornings until noon at 133 S. Church St. just below the bus station. Also by appointment. Adelaine O'Connor, 374-3018; Linda Whitbeck, 377-2162. the flux density emanating from GE? Are they plotting against the men of the world? Or are they figuring out a way to stop the madness that runs rampant in Schenectady? I decided that I had to try to discover what hidden knowledge these girls kept upstairs. I knew that only a select few are able to bypass the \strange\ energy field that protects their hideout, but, be- ing a professional thrill seeker, I was willing to attempt the im- possible. One day I felt particularly confident and decided to enter their sphere of influence. With trembling fingers I pressed the door bell. Armed with a seven layer brownie cake I made, I asked for permission to enter their fortress. As I walked up the stairs I felt the energy waves surround me.· My first instinct was to run. Forrest Gump's girlfriend's voice echoed in my head: \If anything bad happens, run Forest. Do you here me? nJST RUN!\ But as I said, I'm a thrill seeker, and as tough as Captain Midnight; I made my way into the apartment. What I discovered su~:prised me. I f()und that the \strange energy'' is not evil in any way. The energy is a positive one that seems to have an orange aura symbolizing a pre-spring. state of being .. It is a very impres- sive and emulous aura. They are operating at a higher level of consciousness than most of us. They are enlightened but still humble enough to continue learning. They have discovered the secret to happiness and lon- gevity and are willing to share it with anyone who asks. They teach us about friendship, love, and MSG. They are content but ambitious, ironically paradoxi- cal, a team but individuals, and they are definitely good super heroes. They use their super powers selflessly, always will- ing to help a person in distress and always spreading joy. Yes, somewhere in Schenectady, posing as four Union College Sorority sisters, the Fantastic Four are right now making the world a happier place. So the nexttimeyouhave a problem that you cannotsolve, or you are sad and in need of a smile, remember to call the Fan- tastic Four. ..-~ .. ~ . .-.- .. \'!- __ \You do have a cold nose. • The Vicious Media: Too Powerful? by Chris Richards Living Editor On April 17, Newt Gingrich spoke at the National Newspa- per Editors Convention and ex- pressed his views on the me- dia. One reporter was brave enough to ask him why he said that the media can be \a vicious, gutless agent which rips mat~ ters apart.\ And his response indicated for me why this man has been able to fulfill his ambi- tions for po1itical power. He did not back down, nor feel any ob- ligation to deflect any of the vin- dictiveness of his statements despite the fact that he was their \guest.\ He took the harshness of the reporter's question and injected it back into him. ''Well, what do you want me to say, that television and news- paper do not harm 1 If there weren't so many of you, then there wouldn't be nearly as much bickering amongst par- ties. Last Tuesday Bryant Gumbel said something on The Today Show which was an ut- ter fabrication, a total lie. And my colleagues and I have to simply throw our arms up in the air. I can't do anything about it. Once the people drinking their coffee hear that, it can't be un- done.\ Gingrich and his policies, I could not agree with him more con- cerning this statement. Once the truth is changed, the lies become hideous mutations and develop a life oftheirown until finally the people believe that the lie is the truth. Everyone who heard Bryant Gumbel that morning received information which is incorrect. Thus, it be- comes impossible for the two parties to productively work together since the media is for- ever dividing the two. The me- dia tears apart the pDlitical pro- cess due to their own ulterior motives. As a result, the media has become a force that has gained altogether too much power. They can change the opinions of the public with one offhand flip comment by a re- porter. Television producers can choose the glamorous, articu- late statements of one candidate and trash the other man who does not meet their interests by splicing the tape. All it takes is one singular moment, and the reputation of a candidate can be changed forever. For instance. C-Span has a worldoftape they can play with. They aired a speech by Bob Dole, and a mi- crophone followed him off the podi!.!m and down into the crowd. i don't know if be was While I am no fan of aware of the bug on him, but ' from what he said, he obviously was not. Someone walked up to him and asked him a particu- lar question about where his focus was. He replied by say- ing \Oh you know, about that stuff I was talking about up there.\ That day, the clip was of- fered to television stations around the country, and they could pick up the tape if Dole was not in their favor. The next night it was seen across the country by those television sta- tions who felt it should be shown. While it is not a lie that he said it, it is something which can change the opinions of the viewers who are watching. Television is the medium that determines how most people vote. If someone was undeci<led, and then sawthe Dole clip, their minds might sway to .Clinton. Someone else, though, could easily not have seen that clip and instead seen Clinton put his foot in his mouth. Unfortunately, television is the main source which determines the attitudes towards candidates. JN e think one way or the other depending upon what we randomly see and hear. As a result, the media has become the mind which thinks for the citizens, and they can wreck an entire career in a sound byte.

LIVING The Fantastic Four------- by David Eder Living Editor The girls who live in the apartment above mine are an amazing group. Each has her own unique super power. To- gether they form a synergistic energy field that controls ev- erything which enters their sphere. Girl number I : has the abil- ity to lighten up a room and brings a feeling ofwarmtfu and happiness to all she comes in contact with. Her power is derived from her smile - a smile which can soothe even the most savage of beasts. Girl number 2: has been gifted with a Cassandra-like ability to predict the future and has the power to look into a person's mind and discover their true person. She is beau- tiful and some have even said angelic, but do not let looks deceive you, her insights can be painful. Girl number 3: has the abiHty to melt men with her eyes. Her eyes resemble two perfect globes; they are dominated by the beauty and peace of the blue oceans and complimented by the sadness of the green earth. Girl number 4: is the newest member of the fantastic four. Like a seraph, she is able to dance on the clouds. There was a worry that her initiation into the fantastic four would be difficult. This fear was unfounded. She has not only assimilated easily, but she seems to be a living ex- ample of the term \no worries.\ Together they form the Fan- tastic Four. Their hideout is masked on the outside as a simple two-story house, but inside it can only be compared to the bat- cave. It took me a long time to figure out whether the Fantastic Four was a good super hero team or an evil one. Like Cat Woman, they seemed to have both quali- ties. I wondered, what goes on up there? Are they determining I ill;', : ,• :~;~; ~: -.·. ~- .. learn the perfect summertime attitude :-.~. :~· · Don't JUSt hn the heach, hilt he book.' this summer and ..: .. :. ··e a r n gel a ht•ad ~tarl nn your ne>:t semester. Enroll m one or both of Pace L'niver111 y's summer se\ions. Courses are avauable In a Wide variety ot areas. hom Busmess to ( :ornputer Sctence & InformatiOn Systems to Arts & Sciences, :-iur;mg and Edu<:Jt Ion And 11x ·week sesston> allow for plenty of summertime living. .,. Summer se\10n students enrolled mat least 6cred!ls may hveon either the New York City or Westchester campuses for only $04 a week. Amazing when you consider all you'll be close to .. .th~ South Street Seaport, Greenwtch Village.l.tttle Italy. Chmatown and Central Park. lift: Not the c~ty type' Then consider our i'leasantvili<·,,Jmpus, where ynu'll tind 'wimmmg. jo~ing and tennis facilities Don't prncra<tmate! Spa<es arc tilling up quicklv. Register today in reg·:f.s;te r order tn make the mmt of your summer. For more mformation. call914• 773•3700, Extension 9319 or c'· mml infoctr@ny027.wan.pace.edu SUMMER SESSION 1 BEGINS JUNE 3, 1996 SUMMER SESSION 2 BEGINS JULY 15, 1996 PACE UNIVERSITY sUnllner • se,ssion For Sale: POOL TABLES, (two), sed, EXCELLENT CONDITION. Solid slate with top quality covering. Handsome side wood paneling. Both are 46 inches wide. One is 78 inches long, the other 82 inches. Prices are $800 and $1200. Includes a set of Aramith balls, cue sticks, and racks. Will deliver and set up. Can be seen Mon.-Fri. mornings until noon at 133 S. Church St. just below the bus station. Also by appointment. Adelaine O'Connor, 374-3018; Linda Whitbeck, 377-2162. the nux density emanating from GE? Are they plotting against the men of the world? Or are they figuring out a way to stop the madness that runs rampant in Schenectady? I decided that I had to try to discover what hidden knowledge these girls kept upstairs. I knew that only a select few are able to bypass the \strange\ energy field that protects their hideout, but, be- ing a professional thrill seeker, I was willing to attempt the im- possible. One day I felt particularly confident and decided to enter their sphere of influence. With trembling fingers I pressed the door bell. Armed with a seven layer brownie cake I made, I asked for permission to enter their fortress. As I walked up the stairs I felt the energy waves surround me.· My first instinct was to run. Forrest Gump's girlfriend's voice echoed in my head: \If anything bad happens, run Forest. Do you here me? ruST RUN!\ But as I said, I'm a thrill seeker, and as tough as Captain Midnight, I made my way into the apartment. What I discovered surprised me. I found that the \strange energy\ is not evil in any way. The energy is a positive one that seems to have an orange aura symbolizing a pre-spring state of being. It is a very impres- sive and emulous aura. They are operating at a higher level of consciousness than most of us. They are enlightened but stiU humble enough to continue learning. They have discovered the secret to happiness and lon- gevity and are willing to share it with anyone who asks. They teach us about friendship, love, and MSG. They are content but ambitious, ironically paradoxi- cal, a team but individuals, and they are definitely good super heroes. They use their super powers selflessly, always will- ing to help a person in distress and always spreading joy. Yes, somewhere In Schenectady, posing as four Union College Sorority sisters, the Fantastic Four are right now making the world a happier place. So the next time you have a problem that you cannot solve, or you are sad and in need of a smile, remember to call the Fan- tastic Four. ......... - ............. __ _ .,. .. \I don't know what's worse ... Harvey putting his thong on backwards, or nobody noticing.\ ---A~-,.....--- \You do have a cold nose ... The Vicious Media: Too Powerful? by Chris Richards Living Editor On April 17, Newt Gingrich spoke at the National Newspa- per Editors Convention and ex- pressed his views on the me- dia. One reporter was brave enough to ask him why he said that the media can be \a vicious, gutless agent which rips mat- ters apart.\ And his response indicated for me why this man has been able to fulfill his ambi- tions for political power. He did not back down, nor feel any ob- ligation to deflect any of the vin- dictiveness of his statements despite the fact that he was their \guest.\ He took the harshness of the reporter's question and injected it back into him. \Well what do you want me to say, that television and news- paper do not harm? If there weren't so many of you, then there wouldn't be nearly as much bickering amongst par- ties. Last Tuesday Bryant Gumbel said something on The Today Show which was an ut- ter fabrication, a total lie. And my colleagues and I have to simply throw our arms up in the air. I can't do anything about it. Once the people drinking their coffee hear that, it can't be un- done.\ While I am no fan of Gingrich and his policies, I could not agree with him more con- cerning this statement. Once the truth is changed, the lies become hideous mutations and develop a life of their own until finally the people believe that the lie is the truth. Everyone who heard Bryant Gumbel that morning received information which is incorrect. Thus, it be- comes impossible for the two parties to productively work together since the media is for- ever dividing the two. The me- dia tears apart the political pro- cess due to their own ulterior motives. As a result, the media has become a force that has gained altogether too much power. They can change the opinions of the public with one offuand flip comment by a re- porter. Television producers can choose the glamorous, articu- late statements of one candidate and trash the other man who does not meet their interests by splicing the tape. All it takes is one singular moment, and the reputation of a candidate can be changed forever. For instance, C-Span has a world of tape they can play with. They aired a speech by Bob Dole, and a mi- crophone followed him off the podium and down into the crowd. I don't know if he was aware of the bug on him, but from what he said, he obviously was not. Someone walked up to him and asked him a particu- lar question about where his focus was. He replied by say- ing \Oh you know, about that stuff I was talking about up there.\ That day, the clip was of- fered to television stations around the country, and they could pick up the tape if Dole was not in their favor. The next night it was seen across the country by those television sta- tions who felt it should be shown. While it is not a lie that he said it, it is something which can change the opinions of the viewers who are watching. Television is the medium that determines how most people vote. If someone was undecided, and then saw the Dole clip, their minds might sway to Clinton. Someone else, though, could easily not have seen that clip and instead seen Clinton put his foot in his mouth. Unfortunately, television is the main source which determines the attitudes towards candidates. JN e think one way or the other depending upon what we randomly see and hear. As a result, the media has become the mind which thinks for the citizens, and they can wreck an entire career in a sound byte. il ij :I ,,

Page 1.3 Science and Technology · <Ilrt' ([ llncnroit·nsis Apri I 25, 1996 Science & Technology BETACAROTENEANDVITAMINAHALTEDINLUNGCAN- CER PREVENTION TRIAL by Dennis Popeo Science Editor Investigators conducting the Beta Carotene and Retinol Efficacy Trial (CARET), a large study of the combination ofbeta carotene and vitamin A as prever,.tive agents for lung cancer inhigh.,.risk men and women, terminated the intervention last week after an average offour years of treatment andtold the 18,314 participants to stop taking their vitamins. Interim study results indicate that the supplements provide no benefit andmay be causing harm. Inves.,. tigators in another trial, the Phy- sicians' Health Study, said today that their studyof22,071 U.S. male physicians ended on schedule, Dec. 31, 1995, after more than 12 years of treatment. The study showed no significant evidence of benefit orhannftom beta caro- tene ort cancer or cardiovascular disease. Both studies have been funded by the National Cancer In- stitute (N CI) of the National Insti- tutes ofHealth (NIH). The Physi- cians' Health Study was also funded by NIH's National Heart, Lung. and Blood Institute. CARET was being conducted in six areas of the United_ ~~ates with a prinQipal 'ill'Ve.Stig\afor at each site and oinenn''\coordinat- ing the trial. TI1e six cities partici- ·pating in CARET· ar~.:. Se11ttle, Wash.; Portland. Ore.; ~illtimore, Md.; San Fnincis'9_p; CaH£;; Irvine, Calif.; andNew Haven,' Conn. The study is comprisJa 'of two- groups: 14,254 eiuTent artd fanner smokers with· a long history of smoking and 4,060 asbestos-ex- posed individuals. The total num- berofparticipartts,is 18;314. One- half:the CARET participaiits in botli groups•took a: cotrtbination of beta carotene llnd ·vitamin A and one-half toak inactive place- bos. Beta carotene is an antioxi- dant,. •<l compound that may· pre- vent cancer-causing substances from . damaging DNA. Epidemiologic studies have linked high dietary intake of beta caro- tene and high serum levels-ofthis micronutri~nt to are4uced risk of cancer, particularly lung cancer. Vitamin A was chosen for study becau~~ it is known to play a part in cell differentiation; a process of \maturing\ cells that helps pre- vent them from inappropriate growth, such as the uncontrolled cell growth that is seen in cancer. Vitamin A (retinol) and its ana- logues have been shown to be effective in preventing cancers in animals exposed to chemicals lilce those in cigarette smoke. Beta carotene and vitamin A were given as a. combination under the hypothesis of a potentially favor- able interaction between the two compounds. The dose of beta carotene in CARET was 30 mg/ day, which is equivalent to 50,000 IU of vitamin A or about five me• dium-sizedeanots. Vitamin A was .given as retifiyl palmitate in a doseof25,000IU. Tl:re Physicians' Health Study was conductednationwide among 22,071 U.S. malephysiciansages 40 to 84 years, 11 percent of whom were current smokers and 51 per- cent of whom had smoked at some time in their life when recruited to the study in 1982. The partici- pants took either 50 mg of beta carotene every other day or a pla- cebo and 325 mg of aspirin or a placebo ontbe alternate day. The randomized aspirin component ended early, after five years, pri- marily because a ,Penefit ofaspi- study data showed that lung can- cer incidence was unlikely to be reduced by the daily intervention of30 milligrams{mg) ofbeta caro- ten.e and 25,000 international units (RJ) of vitamin A by the sched- uled end of the study and that there was a substantial possibil- ity that the supplements might be harming the participants, who are smokers, formersmolcers, and men exposed to asbestos on the job. CARET results to date, includ- ing 388 people diagnosed with lung cancer and 974 deaths from all causes, showed 28 percent more lung cancers and 17 percent more deaths in participants tak- to eight years. Letters asking the 18,314 CARET participants to stop tak- ing their vitamin supplements or placebos were mailed Jan. 13. In- vestigators plan to follow the par- ticipants for at least five more years to detennine the long-term effects ofthe intervention, which was interrupted 21 months early. Omenn said that CARET data also raise the possibility that former smokers, who comprised 34 per- cent of the participants when re- cruited, may respond more favor- ably to vitamin A and beta caro- tene than current smokers, but that the data are too limited to draw SCIENCE MATTERS ; .. -. rin on risk of first heart attack was found (a44 percent reduction was seen in those taking aspirin). The beta carotene treatment continued until its scheduled tennination on Dec. 31,1995. CAREt's lead investigator, Gil- bertS. Omentl,.M:n .• Ph.D., of the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center and the University of Washington School of Public Health in Seattle, explained that regular independent review ofthe ing beta carotene and vitamin A. While these interim results are not significant evidence ofharm from a statistical standpoint, they are similar to the results of the Alpha- Tocopherol, Beta-Carotene (A TBC) Lung Cancer Prevention Trial published in 1994, which showed 18 percent more lung can- cers and 8 percent more deaths in the portion of the 29,133 male smokers in Finland who took 20 mg of beta carotene daily for five any conclusions at this time. Re- sults from the Physicians' Health Study, the trial of22,071 U.S. male physicians taking 50 mg of beta carotene or a placebo every other day for 12 years; showed that beta-carotene supplements had no significant effect - positive or negative - on cancer or car- diovascular disease in this popu- lation of mostly nonsmokers (I 1 percent are current smokers while 51 percent smoked at some time in their life). Charles H. Hennekens, M.D., Dr.P.H., of Harvard Medical Schoo] and Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, headed this study, which showed in 1988 that low-dose as- pirin reduces the risk ofa first heart attack. In response to the lack of ben- efit seen in CARET, the Physi- cians' Health Study, and the A TBCtrial, another ongoing trial is removing beta carotene supple- ments from its intervention. The Women's Health Study, a trial of 40,000 female health profession- als, headed by JulieBuring, Sc.D., of Harvard Medical School and Brigham and Women's Hospital, began in 1992. The study will con- tinue- to evaluate every-other-day doses of 600 ID of vitamin E and I 00 mg of aspirin or placebos. The results of CARET and the Physicians.' Health Study provide strong evidence of no benefit from beta carotene supplements andraise questions about their safety for the general public. \The National Cancer Institute has never had a recommendation for Americans to take supplements,\ said Peter Greenwald, M.D .• Dr.P.H., director ofNCI' s Division of Cancer Prevention and Control. 'Thehestadvice forsniokers who want to reduce their risk of lung cancer is still the most direct: Stop smoking. Results from CARET and the A TBC trial do suggest, however, that smokers should avoid beta carotene supple- ments.\ Omenn ut1derscored the \quit smoking\ message. by praising the many CARET participants who were smokers at the begin• uing of the trial and who have quit duririg the study. Twenty-two per- cent of those who smoked at the beginning of the trial have quit. Greenwald continued, \For all Americans who wish to reduce their risk of lung and other can- cers, a low-fat diet with plenty of fruits, vegetables, and grains is the choice to make. These stud- ies show nothing to suggest that smokers or nonsmokers might benefit from beta carotene supple- ments.\ Hennekens concurred, noting that \taken together, the results of CARET, ATBC, and the Physicians' Health Study clearly tell us that beta-carotene supple- mentation is not a magic bullet- it cart neither substitute for a good diet nor compensate for a bad one.\ NCI Director Richard Klausner, M.D.~ praised the work of there- searchers and participants of CARET and the Physicians' Health Study, as well as applaud- ing the process of science. \Medi- cine and public health must be based, whenever possible, on evi- dence. These trials discussed to- day provide that essential evi- dence ... While the results are dis- appointing, the research process, lbelieve, is working.\ --.-- '·· ·,, .•

t t I ! 'I Science & Technology BETA CAROTENE AND VITAMIN A HAL TED IN LUNG CAN- CER PREVENTION TRIAL by Dennis Popeo Science Editor Investigators conducting the Beta Carotene and Retinol Efficacy Trial (CARET), a large study of the combination of beta carotene and vitamin A as preventive agents for lung cancer in high-risk men and women, tenninated the interventio11 last week after an average of four years of treatment and told the 18,314 participants to stop taking their vitamins. futerim study results indicate that the supplements provide no benefit and may be causing harm. Inves- tigators in another trial, the Phy- sicians' Health Study, said today thattheir study of22,071 U.S. male physicians ended on schedule, Dec. 31, 1995, after more than 12 years of treatment. The study showed no significant evidence ofbenefit or harm from beta caro- tene on cancer or cardiovascular disease. Both studies have been funded by the National Cancer In- stitute (NCI) of the National Insti- tutes ofHealth (Nll-1). l11e Physi- cians' Health Study was also funded by NIH's National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute. CARET was being conducted in six areas of the United States with a principal investigator at each site and Omenn coordinat- ing the trial. TI1e six cities partici- pating in CARET are: Seattle, Wash.; Portland, Ore.; Baltimore, Md.; San Francisco, Calif.; Irvine, Calif.; and New Haven, Conn. l11e study is comprised of two- groups: 14,254 current and fonner smokers with a long history of smoking and 4,060 asbestos-ex- posed individuals. The total num- ber of participants is 18,314. One- half the CARET participants in both groups took a combination of beta carotene and vitamin A and one-half took inactive place- bos. Beta carotene is an antioxi- dant, a compound that may pre- vent cancer-causing substances from damaging DNA. Epidemiologic studies have linked high dietary intake of beta caro- tene and high serum levels ofthis micronutrient to a reduced risk of cancer, particularly lung cancer. Vitamin A was chosen for study because it is known to play a part in cell differentiation, a process of \maturing\ cells that helps pre- vent them from inappropriate growth, such as the uncontrolled cell growth that is seen in cancer. Vitamin A (retinol) and its ana- logues have been shown to be effective in preventing cancers in animals exposed to chemicals like those in cigarette smoke. Beta carotene and vitamin A were given as a combination under the hypothesis of a potentially favor- able interaction between the two compounds. The dose of beta carotene in CARET was 30 mg/ day, which is equivalent to 50,000 IU of vitamin A or about five me- dium-sized carrots. Vitamin A was given as retinyl palmitate in a doseof25,000 ru. The Physicians' Health Study was conducted nationwide among 22,071 U.S.1:nale physicians ages 40 to 84 years, II percent of whom were current smokers and 51 per- cent of whom had smoked at some time in their Hfe when recruited to the study in 1982. The partici- pants took either 50 rng of beta carotene every other day or a pla- cebo and 325 rng of aspirin or a placebo on the al,temate day. The randomized aspirin component ended early, after five years, pri- marily because a benefit of aspi- study data showed that lung can- cer incidence was unlikely to be reduced by the daily intervention of30 milligrams (mg) of beta caro- tene and 25,000 intematimml units (ill) of vitamin A by the sched- uled end of the study and that there was a stlbstantial possibil- ity that the supplements might be banning the participants, who are smokers, former smokers, and men exposed to asbestos on the job. CARET results to date, includ- ing 388 people diagnosed with lung cancer and 974 deaths from all causes, showed 28 percent more lung cancers and 17 percent more deaths in participants tak- to eight years. Letters asking the 18,3 14 CARET participants to stop tak- ing their vitamin supplements or placebos were mailed Jan. 13. In- vestigators plan to follow the par- ticipants for at least five more years to detennine the long-tenn effects of the intervention, \Which was interrupted 21 months early. Omenn said that CARET data also raise the possibility that former smokers, who comprised 34 per- cent of the participants when re- cruited, may respond more favor- ably to vitamin A and beta caro- tene than current smokers, but that the data are too limited to draw SCIENCE MATTERS ORIGIN oF THE MooN . tbare ant bw nuiin theorlfl8 ·about the origin of tm moon. Three have serious problema: v • 0 . • Probabltlty: MC$1 widely accepted~ AccotMrts for~Qt Iron in moon - Earth's mantle had little Iron at lime of Impact. Evidence from moon survey by Clementine spacecraft supports it. rin on risk of first heart attack was found (a 44 percent reduction was seen in those taking aspirin). The beta carotene treatment continued until its scheduled termination on Dec.31, 1995. CARET's lead investigator, Gil- bertS. Omenn, M.D., Ph.D .• of the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center and the University of Washington School of Public Health in Seattle, explained that regular independent review of the . What bappenedafter the moon lonlled e ·~,·.. . . . . . . -· ·~.,-~ 1 bfHion yean 11g0 until today: Almost no volcanic or meteoric activity. ing beta carotene and vitamin A. While these interim results are not significant evidence ofhann from a statistical standpoint, they are similar to the results of the Alpha- Tocopherol, Beta-Carotene (A TBC) Lung Cancer Prevention Trial published in 1994, which showed 18 percent more lung can- cers and 8 percent more deaths in the portion of the 29,133 male smokers in Finland who took 20 mg of beta carotene daily for five any conclusions at this time. Re- sults from the Physicians' Health Study, the trial of22,071 U.S. male physicians taking 50 mg of beta carotene or a placebo every other day for 12 years. showed that beta-carotene supplements had no significant effect - positive or negative - on cancer or car- diovascular disease in this popu- lation of mostly nonsmokers ( 1 1 percent are current smokers while 51 percent smoked at some time in their life). Charles H. Hennekens, M.D., Dr.P.H., of Harvard Medical School and Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, headed this study, which showed in 1988 that low-dose as- pirin reduces the risk of a first heart attack. In response to the lack of ben- efit seen in CARET, the Physi- cians' Health Study, and the A TBC trial, another ongoing trial is removing beta carotene supple- ments from its intervention. The Women's Health Study, a trial of 40,000 female health profession- als, headed by Julie Buring, Sc.D., of Harvard Medical School and Brigham ai'ld Women's Hospital, began in 1992. TI1e study will con- tinue to evaluate every-other-day doses of600 IU ofvitamin E and 100 mg of aspirin or placebos. The results of CARET and the Physicians' Health Study provide strong evidence of no benefit from beta carotene supplements andraise questions about their safety for the general public. \The National Cancer Institute has never had a recommendation for Americans to take supplements,\ said Peter Greenwald, M.D., Dr.P.H., director ofNCI's Division of Cancer Prevention and Control. \The best advice for smokers who want to reduce their risk of lung cancer is still the most direct: Stop smoking. Results from CARET and the A TBC Trial do suggest, however, that smokers should avoid beta carotene supple- ments.\ Omenn underscored the \quit smoking\ message by praising the many CARET participants who were smokers at the begin- ning of the trial and who have quit during the study. Twenty-two per- cent of those who smoked at the beginning of the trial have quit. Greenwald continued, \For all Americans who wish to reduce their risk of lung and other can- cers, a low-fat diet with plenty of fruits, vegetables, and grains is the choice to make. These stud- ies show nothing to suggest that smokers or nonsmokers might benefit from beta carotene supple- ments.\ Hennekens concurred, noting that \taken together, the results of CARET, A TBC, and the Physicians' Health Study clearly tell us that beta-carotene supple- mentation is not a magic bullet- it can neither substitute for a good diet nor compensate for a bad one.\ NCI Director Richard Klausner, M.D., praised the work of there- searchers and participants of CARET and the Physicians' Health Study, as well as applaud- ing the process of science. \Medi- cine and public health must be based, whenever possible, on evi- dence. These trials discussed to- day provide that essential evi- dence ... W11ile the results arc dis- appointing. the research process, I believe, is working.\

I J 1 \ ~ ' . ' Pngc 1-t April 25. 1996 U:l.!t' I..Comnrl:'limsis · · · ..\rts& Entcrtainmt•nt \THE SCREENiNG ROOM I Aeril26: \Mulholland Falls.\ Period piece with Nick Nolte, Melanie Griffith and an all-star cast. \The Truth About Cats and Dogs.\ Uma Thurman and Jeanette Grofalo is a twentysomething romance tale about a guy who falls for Thunnan, who is actually im- personating Grofalo to help her friend win him over. May3: \The Pallbearer.\ David Schwimmer (of TV's Friends) tries his hand at feature films (after Matt LeBlanc's failure with Ed) with co-star Gwenyth Paltrow. Looks about as drop-dead funny as Passed Away did a few years ago. ''Last Dance.\ Bruce Beresford, director ofDriving Miss Daisy, hopes to kick Sharon Stone's career back into overdrive with this prison drama that looks like Dead Woman Walking .. Stone plays a convict ready for death row, who is considered guilty before proven innocent. Is this her second big attempt at serious drama after her surpris- ingly superb role in Casino? May 10: \Twister. •• Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt track tornadoes in the Midwest in the thriller which has seen its release date pushed back twice now. Directed by Jan De Bont, who proved that action films don'-t need high body counts to be tense in Speed. Can he keep us on the edge of our seat again when the \villain\ is a force of na- ture? The trailer looks exciting ... May22: \Mission: Impossible.\ It's finally here.! Tom Cruise's ultra-big star vehicle based orUhe hit 1960s 1Yseries with PeterGraves. Definitely a must-see for everyone on Me- morial Day weekend, unless you're in the mood for ... May24: \Spy Hard.\ Hollywood Pictures maybe taking .a big gamble by opening this on the same weekend as Misoperator. His first non~ sequel in a year and a half, but will this be his firstno-brainer? \The Rock.\ The final production of the megahit Simpson-Bruckheimer team(co-pro- ducer Don Simpson died in January). This ultra-explosive action movie features Ed Harris as a bad guy who takes over A lcatraz. and Nicolas \l'm going to drink myself to death\ Cage as the law-and-mder-man who must stop him. Also on hand is Sean Connery as the only man ever to break out of A lcatraz, recruited,by Cage to break in. June2l: \Eraser.\ Arnold Schwarzenegger is back, but this time~ the only thing he's giving birth to on-screen is a ton -of ac- tion. Arnold plays a secret agent who \arranges'' false deathsto protect people. Is this the witness proteetion program on acid? Looks quite explosive ... another summer winner because it provides the rightamount of adrenaline at the right time ofthe year. June28: \Striptease.\ Bumped from its Memo- rial Day release to make way for a new ending, this is the big one everyone's talk- ing about because ofDemi Moore's $12.5 miHion salary. lt is not Showgirls1J, as some may believe, but is being. billed as a more farcical feature. In other words, ex- pect more \tease\ than \strip.\ Concert Series Concludes Season at Union Tomorrow Night Courtesy fJ/ Public Relations In the final concert of the Schenectady Museum, Union College l995~961nterna­ tional Festival of Chamber Music Concert Series, Lawrence Dutton, Diane Lim and Elizabeth Lim wiiJ be performing at the Memorial chapel on Friday. April2~ at 8 PM. As part of the Emerson StringQuar~ tet Friends and Fam- ily Series, Dutton- violinist of the Emerson - will be pcrfonning with vio- linist Elizahcth Kim (his wifc)and pianist Diane Lim (his sister- in-law) This will he the first viola recital since the legendary Walter Trampler per- formed in the series twenty years ago. On the program arc Bach's Sonata in D fol\ l'io/a and piano. BWV 102!( Mnrtinu's Three Madrif.{alsji)r Violin and . Viola, Shostako'lich • s .S'o- natafor viola and pi- ano. Op. 147. and Brahms' Sonata for 1~iola and piano, Op. J 20, No. I in F. The high I ight of the program, Martinu 's Madrigals, is rarely performed because of the unusual combination of instruments. This piece is a 20th-century masterwork written in 1947 whileMartinu, a Czech com- posel', was recovering inthe Berkshites from a serious fall. As a member of the Emerson String Quar- tet-which has won three Grammy awards AVOIDING A nCKET IS A SNAP lOU COULD LEARN A tor FRlM A DUMMY. 8 U.S. o.p.rtmenl ol Tr1111apol1.ttlon \Vinca l Larry•• OIH$0.8. DOT. -Lawrence Dutton performs over 1 ()()con- certs each season. In addition to his work with the Emerson, Dutton has also been fea- tured as a guest soloist with several orches- tra throughout the country and has col I abo- rated with the Guarneri and Juill iard sic since 1987. Violinist Elizabeth Lim has performed ex- tensively throughoutthe United States, Ko- rea. and Europe. She received her bache.! or· s degree from the Juilliard School and earned a Master ofMusic degree at the Yale School of Music ofYale University. She appears regularly with the Orchestra of St. Luke's and the New York Chamber Symphony. Lim has appeared as guest artist with Laurentianand Mendelssohn String Quar- tets. She alsoperforms With the Emerson and the Diamarel Trio with her two sis- ters. Tickets. at $12 ($6 for students). are available at the Schenectady Museum, 382-7890. or at thedoor. For information, please call 372-3651. ItS a connected world. Do your share. For 30 ways to hdp the environment,. -write Earth Share, 3400 International Drive ,Nw,Suite 2K (AD4 ), ,..,.. ,1. Washington, DC 20008. Earth Share r c; I.

by LawrencePaska AmEditor · \Cutthroat Island. \ Starring ·Geena Davis, Matthew Modine, Frank !Angel/a. Di~ectedbyRenny Harlin; Tape: priced for rental, in stores now. Disc: available soon. Rated PG-13, LIVE Video. Why on earth would anyone choose Cutthroat Island to be their video pick of the week? Because it is so mind-numb~ ingly awful that it lives up to its hype and is the most interesting{in a bad way) ofthe new releases on video, It's worth a view .. ing in the same way.Judge Dredddeserves a glance now that it's on video .. so the whole world cantakeaquick£Oursein Film- making 102: HowNottoMakeaLoudand Thrilling Action Movie. Every few months or so, a tilm this big has to come outso that people everywhere can wonder in harmony, \What was that director thinking? What possessed those big-name stars to make such an obvious flop?\ A $92 million film that grossed un- der$10 million in theaters, Cutthroat /s- landfails.on two levels: bad timing in the• atersand had: storytelling. For the first, we have a big-budgeted ac- tion fiasco that got tossed in with ten other films on Chrisbnas weekend and went down with its ships. On video, it shouJd,do much better (although the tape's pan-and~scan format will .lose the impact of the on'e or two decentbat.tle scenes enhanced through digital effects). Why? P.irate movies, in general, have great appeal, and the ads show many explosion's and enough sword- play to .entertain ·p.eo~J~of.=any IQ level. Por a <:heap' thrill;· C~tl/ftoi:itlsland kills time. (Besides, iCs themily tape sure to be remaining in stores when all the good mov- ies are gone.) But, as with last year's Dredd, this is just the worst possible way to tell a story - and to make an action movie. Davis(who simply doesn't look like a pirate), is cast as a ship captain who is after a missingtrea .. sure(yawn·l'). She:''buys!~ Modine in a Ja~. maican towri to:help her translate the rri~j), and ~he whole premise leads 1:1p to Davis\· ·>Edward VilleiJa.and Miam:i City ··Ballet Da,nc- ers to Give Lecture-Performance at Union crewdc:stn>ying the town in a blazeofglory. L~ngella, the most boring pirate to date, is Davis' enemy, who.....-.. guess what?- is • Coudesyof Public Relations Edward Villella. one of the leading names in American dance, will lead a lecture-perfor- mance with four members. <Jfthe Miami City Ballet on Saturday, May 4 at 8 PM in the Yulman Theater. after the treasure for himself. The writers had the po<Jr judgement to make Davis and Lange II a rei a~. so by the final showdown between them, viewers · have already grown tired of the pseudo- sentimentality drawn out by these two. · Modine, who is no Eroll Flynn, makes a slew of suggestive comments to Davis. which seem not only suspiciously late 20th-cen- tury in nature but also show a total lack of chemistry between them. (Could.it be be- cause Davis' husband is directing her?) And never before has so much action been filmed with.somuch distance from the audi- ence. Bodies tly everywhere, explosions shoot:through the sky all around, but amidst · all this chaos is a lot ofwatch-glancing on . the viewer's part. General admission is $15, and $12 for seniors. Villella, artistic director of the Miami City Ballet, will be introducing dancers ltom his company perfonning Nutcracker Pas de Deux (choreography by Balanchine, music by Tchaikovsky), NousSommes(choreography by De Los Heros, music by de Marlaret), Flower Festival Pas de Deux (choreography by Boumonville, music by Paulli) and Tchaikovsky P~de Deux, music from Swan Lake Act III(choreographyby Balanchine, music by Tchaikovsky ). · . The dancers ate IIi ana Lopez, Frankl in Gamero and Paige Fullerton of the Miami City · Ballet, and John Walker ofthe Atlanta Ballet. Villella, who is notscheduled to perform, will explain each piece and narrate the choreography. (This marks Villella's second lecture-performance at Union; he appeared last year with a different program and d!lnc- ers). Villella will also lead a master class on Saturday, May 4 at 10:30· AM in the Arts Building Dance Studio. The class, open to invited students in the Union College Dance Practica, will serve as the audition for the Edward Villella Prize. This year's inaugural prize is a fellowship to study attheMiami City Ballet in June. (The prize will beawarded during the evening lecture-performance). There is a$ 10 observation fee. Observation reservations are highly recommended. The dialogue is simply rubbish; this is exactly the type of story a third-grader dreams up and writers about in English class. The tale of two rival pirates after the same treasure is nothing more than this- ' no depth, no subplots, not one single stretch at thought Harlin also favors rot- ting corpses for sheer spectaCle; for $92 million, his fi.lm delivers numerous bones hanging from the gallows or in cages, and a leading lady whojumpsoffofthreebuild- ings to get to her ship and still finds time for making out with Modine after getting One of the mostcelebrated dancers in the country, Villella has done much to popular- ize the role of the male in dance. He received an honorary doctor of humane letters from Union in 1991, the year his son, Rodney, received a bachelor's degree from the College. Union College's dance program was recently paired with Villella by Charles Lothridge, Union Class of 1.944, when Lothridge established the Edward Villella Prize, an endow- ment for fellowships for prom ising dance students. The prize this year is to be deter- . mined and awarded by Villella himself. The prize is a cash award to expand the student's study of dance beyond the Union experience. If the recipient is a ballet student, that study will be with the Miami City Ballet. Program and dancers are subject to change. For more infonnation, call388-6545. shot in the chest. Had this beenanimated, =- ===================================================== the movie would have found its rightful pl_ace among the preadolescent fantasies where l.ittle is supposed to make sense any- way. In real life, however, it's surprising that anyone allowed almost $100m illion to s~.t thrown away so foolishly. :~ut::seriously, rent Cuttlzro4lfsfitnd'for the same reason~ you have seen Judge Dtedd by now- because it's so notori- ously bad, you cannot afford not to be with- out the experience! If you still need an- other fewreasons, then know that the final battle scene between the two pirate ships . is-quite·spectacular. And ... um,wait, we'll thinkofsomething ... oh; righ~ the mu- ·.sie score_ is pretty good, too. · <R,ating£~.\'11~ · ., . , LOCAL .... ~ARTS . .. . . - .. ~~·' .\ CALENDAR THE EGG GOES QLOEALI The Empire Center at The. Egg has en- tered cyberspace with a page on the world wide web. The site features facts about The Empire center at The Egg; a facility des~ription; the· calendar of -events; box office, subscription, and ticket informa· tion; directions and parking; sponsorships and memberships; programming for school groups; rental packages and rates; residential company activities, information on advertisi~g in the season playbill and form to fill out to be put on the mailing list. -For further information, contact the Empire CenteratThe Egg's Main Office at 473 •1061 or e-mai I them at: tlieegg@globall.net The· ·Egg's :web address is: http:// www.globall••l'etltheegg CROP WALK Let's See Union's diverse student body shine in the Schenectady com- munity. Come one come all: Schen'ectady's an- nual Crop Walk fo hunger! Sunday May, 5 · Sign up now in The Campus Center Atrium. Contact Manny at 5826 Juniors and Seniors . . Nominate a Faculty Member for the Stillman Prize for Teaching Excellence. Booths will he set up Thursday and Friday in the Reamer Campus Center or Send Your Nomination to Randy Pellish, Box # 1565 by April 26th .~. ·~·

--,.. \' ,., - .,_ .,. .1<• ,.__.. .. ... \\\' ... - ,... ~ ~ .. ~ - .... \' .......... - ., ...... - ..... Personals and Classifieds To The Brothers of Zeta Beta Tau: Thanks for the great party Friday night. The band was amazing! ~ Love the Sisters of Ganuna Phi Beta To Prof. Scullion, Thanks for all the late nights and your patience! We could never pull things together without you! -Tony&Ace Grandma Mac; Hope you are feeling better! I love you!· Adrian Andy, Pete, and Josh, Yo1,1 g1,1ys are the bestG- T Thanks for everything! - Jody To aUtheclasses and clubs that chose to co-sponsor Earth Day! We would like to thank you for your support! -The Union College Chapter of Amnesty lllternational Simmons- THANKS FOR SA VlNG ME! -FROM THE GANGRENE!! Gran - 1 hope you are enjoying the paper! I love you! • Adrian CDC Updates ••• OJJ·Campus Recruiting Reminders: •Net Daemons Resume Deadline extended. This is a rap- idly growing computer network consulting fmn seeking students with good programming and computer networking knowledge. The .infonnation session is Thursday; May 2 @ 7 pm ( open to all students ) •Johnson Controlls- has positions for ME.and EE majors in the Boston. area. Resume Deadline is Friday, Aprll.Z6 -chrysaUs SymboUc Design, Ine. has several positions available for CS, MT, PH~, and EE majors. Resume and . . ! transcript deadline iS Friday, April26. · · •Hospital Computer .Systems, Inc. has an entry ... Jevel Com- puter Programmer/AcCount Manager·position. HCS is a New Jersey based provider of software for the healthcare industrj. Resume Deadline is Friday, April26. •Summer & Part-time retail positions @ Abercrombie & Fitch- Information Table May 1, CC Atrium 10-3 Career Development Center- Third Floor. Old Clklpel ~tgb ·'<!tea at tE:bt 1iott · Every Wednesday from 3:30 to 4:15 pm .. Featuring free tea and cookies, all are welcome. SEND US YOUR PERSONALS! Just think how left out the fraternity you just had a partywith would feel without a personalized thank you. Applications for Orientation Advisors Are available at the Reamer Campus Center: Information Booth or Dean of Students Office- Room 306 Completed applications are due in the Dean of Students Office by: Wednesday, Apri124, 1996 at lO:OOam. . Please sign up for an interview app()intment when you tum in your application We, the staff of The Concordiensis, would like t.o express our gratitude toyou for allowing out 1996-1997 budget to be banded in an entire week late. An additional thanks to Toby Proctor, our fantastic Finance Rep. ToEHF, Good luck at your race! You are the best, and I love you! - JPK To Fradkin . ' Only7 more shopping days until yQur birthday! Wh~t to get, what to get! cr!J Thanks for everything! -Golden Boy To Shorty, I hope you get L ..... - J Get Ready Brother Fox! Love the Sisters of Gamma Phi Beta To Lich My Butt, We miss you lots! ... Love the Iotas To Lauren, Hope you are having fun in DC; but we miss Greece! Love LE and AM Janci, You are my best friend, and doggies are special too! - Steph MomandDad, Thanks for all your support! .. Your little News Editor · ·· To BotbStephanies, l hope that you don't mind if I call you SteffY. MomandDad, I love you tons! Thanks for every• thing, and I can't wait to come home and gallop down the hall!- Freina To my 8 significant others, _ Next year may not be the perfect Bennuda Triangl~, however all visi .. tatiQn .rights will be granted! Jlo:ve youAJH Love, Stephanie To SisterofS.gmaDelta Tau, CONGRATS! Stinky, You smell! Love~ Sweet Pea PR, I LOVE YOU! 'Guess who? Heather, Megan, and Wendy, What would I do without you guys! I love yQu aU! ... Jenn To Scott and Matt, You guys willalways be momqs .for· ever! Stay away from the speds! - Jenn with another n! Tony, Change the hair style? Why please other pe.ople when your magic mir- ror is yQur best friend! -Stephanie To Sari, I don't know what I'd do without . : ' you! Your guidance and friendship· has meant everything! • Love your little Dave, · To my favorite senior, remember you are mine forever! - Steph 1 To the Girls of Gamma Phi Beta, Lets keep ourselves aliveJ -The Iotas To Chris, We are going to have an awesome time this weekend! We'll have to dance the Waltz at the Oak Room! -Tony YeAH~ R IGHTf~ Announcing the AT&T \Ultimate ROAD TRIP\ sweepstakeS • Studying abroad thi$ Fall? AT&T would like to help pay your way. 10 GRAND PlUZ& WlR:mRS - Round-Trip Air Transportation from the u.s. to the country where you will study. Plus thousands of other chances to win ... • Leather- bound passport folders • High-quality currency converters To enter, call Or see yoi.lr Study Abroad Counselor for more details. ~ 0 purchase necossary. ·.-oui ·11here ;;roh~tated. Sw.iep8t&ke• entia 5(31/96. Open to citi:t•n•· o~ the IJ • .3. :.13 -rears or <:~!dec . .s::t.ending .ichool !\brOad for the Pall • 96 sf'!!ltast;•r t:hrough parcicipat.ino schMls. ~ee your ~tudy .lJ:;r:~ad :'!:!ur.!l«alor fOr o~fii!La.-1 ruleD and details.

Spec·htl Ad · . · · ·Wire <:fioucoroicttziz. • A·pril f-5, 1996 • Page ~7 ,. i f ... ;. The Rouse Family Arthur, Sabrina, Bobbi Lyn, ··Kari Ann, and Bret. Livedf,ogether, loved together. -~\ :.~Killed. together. ·-August 20, 1991 Gansevoort, NY If you don't stop someone from driving drunk, who will? Do whatever .FRIENDS DON'T LET FRIENDS DRIVE DRUNK.· : ·-, : .·. . ; . . . . '- . . . - . '-, ' . ' ·. ,_ -- . -. ···. . . ' . U.S. Department of Transpot1ation

,, Sports . ([l!t' 1L,nolr0tt'll~>t~. • .\pril 25. )<)t)(J • Pa!!l' I X . - . - . . The \I Think I Can Ruggers\ Earn Respect at West Point by: Bharat Navani Assisted by: PrkeMody anD Eric Smith off ta~kles. doloboy, in fact, sent \She's legal, I promise! .. Brown three West Point Cadets to the who -tripped and feU into the try- hospital! zone hence scoringand impre~s- The second half, in fact, proved ing his girlfriend. A penalty kick to be Union's finest as every by LaycockbroughtTeamUnion On Saturday, April 20th, the player began asserting h.is evenclosertothedisgruntled ca- Union College Men's Rugby strengths and· skills: the eight- dets, WP: 27, Union: 18. Team lost a hard fought match to man. Chuck \This bed isn't big Another strong defensive stand host West Point, 27-23. What at enough for the both of us, Tom!\ by Union resulted in a turnover firstseemedadisappointingday Parishwasexcellent inlooseplay by West Point and allowed the for Union turned outto be one of and had several good runs as well. Union serum and backs to once come-back determined play by Scrum-halfBill \I was possessed again-move the ball down the field. every Union rugger. Going into by a demon·~ Archerbauer, played At the lO meter line, the Big Man this game, theteamhada 1-and-1 hisheartoutashewentafterWest play was called by the coaching record, beating Syracuse 24-0 and Point's biggest players. Brendan brain trust ott the sideline, which losing to Middlebury on April '\Get in my way and I'll bleed on resulted in rugger Mody juking 13th. you\ Schaefer played in the seem one cadet and running over an .. West Point has reached the Fi- ond row and had a couple ofbone- other for Union's final score of the nai-Four of the NCAA Rugby Fi- crushing tackles~ Lothar, the for- game. WP: 27, Union: 23. nals the last two years in a row, eign exchange student from The Union ruggers played and their play on Saturday was Rotterdam, played wing and sup- smart and fast but feU Short as indicative of this fact. The Cadets ported the full~back with his amaz- their final drive to get points was played an offensive game, run- ing ball handling skills. Jamie stopped by the referee with the ning straight up the field and at \Oops you okay, buddy? ... I haircut. They held their own times over Union players. By the thought it said Audino on the against West Point and each end of the first half, West Point back ofyour jersey\ Leahey also rugger deserves MVP awards. had secured what seemed to be played.astronggameatwingand On the B-side the Uni9n an·insurmountable27-0 lead. managed to carry the ball for 15 ruggersag~in showed tlleirdeter- ln all fairness to the m ination against a Union team though, the superior West Point, odds were clearly team .. The highljght stacked against. them of the match had to from the very beginning. ~when Weiler, :wpo The team .lost the ser- had bruised his ribs vices of their hard..:hit- earlierintheA-game. ting.prop Chris .. , may be ran back onto the ~ig. but I'm a bleeder\ field for the B-game Weiler early in the game assisted . , b.y due to bruised ribs, and 'Ibuprofen and his fa~ the team's rhythm was ther,William\Ididn't disrupted by the Huey raise no loser\ Lewis Cover Band that Weiler. With Weiler played in the lot nex.t to back in. the B-line the fi'eld. Also, not only waS.the . {straigHt ·minutes Without loosing .. serum (~hich coniisted of.play- smallest West Point player 6' 7\ orgainingasingleyard ... err, meter. ers from theA-side) made an in- tall and· weighingJOO pounds, but ioel \Where'd you say tO\ICh it tens~ goal line stand and. played the referee on hand had quite a down?\ Cooper was able to have a solid defensive game allowing suspicious haircut Further inves- a cQuple of streaky runs up the the cadets only 3 points on a. pen- ligation intothematterbytheone- sideline as full-back. Matt .. Hey, altykick. The Union backs played man Warren Commissiqn, Coach Tiff. my pocket rocket need$ a a sound game with contributions Tom .. Hotdog·, anyone?\ Milner, socket\ Lux played at fly half and from: Freddy .. These could be our revealed that the referee was in had several nice runs and pro- lawn.jockeys\Gibney who was a fact the coach of the West Point vided stellar ball control which al- ·standout on both offense and Team! In conjunction With this lowed Union to get on the board. . defens¢~ Dave \The Killer Cran- finding, rugger Pike .. TeamProc:.. Note: the ruggers would like to berry 1 ' Greenberg, who finally ran tologist\ Mody, stated that \the extend their congratulations to someone over; Bharat \Wow ... referee seemed to be unaware of run~hackMyles \Hit me, please!'' · look at all the pretty birds'' \ . the obstruction rules, [for l he did Kellam who regained conscious- Navani, who had some nice runs not stop play when obstruction ness after suffering severe blood . but was relegated to the role of was clearly a factor on part ofthe loss from a bizarre neck injury to bird watcher when the cadets West Point players, resulting in play agood running game and a . caughtup ~o him;_and Aaron \I two West POint tries [ 10 points]. n solid one-on-one defensive gain e. wannabe iike Brendan~' Ziff, who Frustrated by their play in the Thus Union began its assault played a solid defensive game and firsthalf,angeredbythepoot:of- on West Point. Mark \Norm\ almost stole a pass off theca- ficiatin.g, and happy that the Huey Peterson stole 12 line outs in the dets. The final score of the match~ Lewis band had finished and left, second half alone, which allowed · a heartbreakerr WP: 3, Union: 0. the Union ruggers leaped onto the Union backs to put constant Atthe end of the day, the West the field in the second half deter- pressure on the West Point line. Point cadets put on a barbecue mined to put right. Coaches Skip Indue time this led to Union's first allowing players from both sides \'Only my wife can call me Bud- score as the Welsh wanker Ian \I 'II to put aside their aggressions. and dha\ Aycox and Milner skillfully have another pint, please\ make new acquaintances. Union worked the referee from the side- Laycock- no letters please, this coach, Tom \Hotdog anyone?'' line and instituted brilliant posi- is his real last name - broke Milner took this opportunity to tion changes that allowed Union through West Point's defense for double-fist as many hotdogs as back into the match. The team be- Union's first score. WP: 27, Union: his bionic anns would allow. gan to dominate the rucks and 5. This weekend the rugby team mauls aided by props Adam \Cup- Fired up by Laycock's run, Ja- gets a chance to showcase its tal- cake ... everybodySTOP,llostmy son \The mack daddy of all ents atth~ New York State Up- contacts\ Spitzer and Mike \I got trucks\ Sanabia, yelled \get off ~te Championships right here in One Wee.~end and Two Regattas by UCRA Public Relations Union Cr~w: remain~d in Schenectady this past Saturday forit'dirst home race of the season·against RIT and Middlebury. After a disap- pointing showing at Hobart and William· Smith last weekend, in the pouring rain, a race with actual spring-like weather was well deserved. The races on Saturday were Union's first on it's new home course. Union's days of rowing in nearby Niskayuna are over as rowing re- turns to Schenectady and the shores of the historic Stockade dis..trict after a hiatus ofneariy a hundred years. Union's planned boathouse, to be completed for the fall of this year according to Assistant Dean, Joe Mammola, is being proposed for a location in ·the Stockade area, adjacent to the YWCA. The course finishes across from the proposed site as well as from a spectator's pav:ilion at Gateway Landing Park, overlooking the Mohawk. Despite the lack of familiarity with the new course though, Union look(ld impressive against tough competition from.RI't and Middlebury. Highlights of the day include a close race in which Union's novice men finished a close secend to RlT ina good ol' fashioned nailbiter. Cox- swain Ted Wallace and his crew of John Carbone, Matt Peluso, Jim Story, Mike Sherwood, Aaron Reidy, Mike DeMicco, Rob Davis, and ·Greg VanHolt should all be applauded for their efforts. Later in the afternoon, Union's hopes and dreams laid heavily upon the Varsity Men's Four to bring the team to the sweet taste of success. The crew, once again under the direction of freshman wonder, Ted Wallace, pum- meled it's competition down their own,course. Congratulations toJared. Richman, Nick Papanickolas, Jay Mom1ell, and Mike Ferguson. The day soon drew to a close though as the team readied for it's annual Family and Friends Dinner in Upperclass Dining. The evening_ began with a speaker, Holly Metcalf. discu.ssing the role rowing has played in her life. Holly is a gold medalist from the '84 Olympics in Los Angeles where she stroked ·the women's eight to victory. Prior to that, begi11ning in 1981, she was a women;s national team member. She currently coaches masters women in Boston as well as contin~ing to row. She is the founder ofa unique _summer rowing workshop for women called Row As ·one; created ln.order to improve the role and importance of women in the sport of rowing. After the speaker and dinner in Upperclass, Vice President Joe Mammola updated those in attendance on. the current state of the upcoming boat- house,' to be completed for the fa:ll ofthis year. To~mplete an enjoyable evening, one of Union's new shells now bears the name of Peter Schwab '93. The· shell -was dedi:- catedand unveiled after the.dinner m9ch'to, · Peter's_del ight. Petereis a national team 1ight4 weight wh9se Olympic efforts to make the' · lightweight four were only recently ended· : with the decision to select another boat. Pe- · ter serves and will continue to be·regar<!ed as a model of exeellence in rowingforyears of Union Crew to come. Sunday quickly came and th~ team was rowing again-atthe Skidmore Im~itational .. on the neck ofthe Fish Creek in Saratoga, NY. The competition included Skidmore, Geneseo, Vassar,RPI,andAibany. The nov• ice men, once again in a tight race keeping . with theirstyle, were. edged from·firstplace· by only a foot and a half after gaining ground in the 'last 250 meters of the race. Highlighting the day was Union's only win in the pair without coxsWclin. Jeffery DruZba and Bryan SerreiJ, determined to prove themselves in their first race together in the pair, did just that. They quickly $ained a lead in their race which only increased over the course to.'roughly three boatlengths of ope11 water over Skidmore's.entry. Many par- ents and alumni attended the races on b_oth - days. The Skidmore meet drew to a close· as a go<>dshare ofthe parents who had come to watch .their children in action cooked a BBQ for the rowers. . This Saturday, Union Crew races against. IC!. _____ . ,. ·•·•'·•··•-~ I r~uu..JAM • TOIU LIVE- ETHERIDGE BUSH·.;. .RAMONES . PORNOFOJlPYROS . PHlSH-DEAD . DAVEMATiiiEWS BJORK .. BEASTIES and lots more ••• Ithaca and Marist at home on the Stockaloie course. The first race begins at noon. From · .. Union Street, take a left onto Erie Boule- vard, followed by a right onto State Street Begin crossing the bridge and tum off at Gateway Landing, a perfect site to view all the action from Union Crew. friends in Jowplaces, Gil, who had me, get off me\ as he charged Clifton Park, where Coach Aycox · t.:=======-===========================i the West Point Cadets wishing downthefieldcarryingWestPoint has predicted certain victory that they had joined the Navyt players with .him eventually break- through the use of his magical Rookie sensation Eric .. Squanto ing inthetry-zone giving·Union crystal Buddha:·soccmesupport the Missile\ Smith was a hooker five more points. WP: 27, Union: your Union ruggers this Saturday! for the day and did a commend- 10. Game time: High noon. Please able job at his position fora man After Sanabla's. score, Union note: the first one hundred Union· his size. Not to be outdone, fel- quickly got the ball back on of-· $tudents to show up will get the. low rookie, Mark ''THIS SPACE fense and carried it deep into West opportunity to caress Coach FOR RENT\ Go1oboy played at · Point's territory. Inches from scor- Aycox 's Buddha. wing-forward and had good kick- ing, the ball was handed to Seth · ... • .. When your child ll&8 a neuromusoula.r disease, you ha.ve a. million qu&sttons. MDA answers them an through special videos and brochures, and Just by there. It's eduaa.tion for life. · 0111 NIOG-1'11•1'1'17. __......,..~..,. MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY ASSOCIATION t) u tc p; D s1 .g; b: sc h~ c tit es g~ in p( to St fit ~c 0 let er: al we ni: pi I tel: sh frc Ac 4

-Disappointing Weekend for Union Baseball Dutchman@ .500 during weekend in which they play six games in four days Christopher Leone $tlljJ'Writq Despite having a ;9 .. t J ·record, tying -laSt years total for wins, the Union college baseball team has to feel abitdisappointedwith the past weekend·'s results. The Dutchmen.went 3-3 during a stretch that saw them play 6 .games .in four days. Though. .500 baseball is far from bad', the team squandered late inning leads at home to Rochester and RLT. Coach Reynolds said that \at times we just did notmake the nec- essary plays, we still have ten .games left, and the gaal ofachiev- ing a final record of .500 is very possible. We will have some tough competition in Albany and St. Lawrence and we will have to find a way to go 6-4 or better to achieve the pre-season goal.\ Overthe past games, the team was led by many ofthe veteran pia yo. ers who continued to demonstrate a hard work ethic and great skill week afterweek. Josh Soldo, Den• nis Stapf, and David Kl'ine all pitched b'rilliant games to give the team needed victories. The offen- sive leadership continuedto come from Jeremy Lamb, Ryan Smith and Adam Meyers, while David !1 ~' Bernstein defensively anchored the team at first. However it will be the freshmen players who will need to step up ifthis team wishes to avoid the problems and errors that plagued them during the past week Hamilton I , 9 Union J , 7 Due to poot field conditions at ·Central Park hue last week,Union was forced to travel to Hamilton on Thursday to make up a double- header. Josh Soldo was given the starting pitching duties for .game one. Trailing l•O Union had the bases loaded with two outs in the fifth. Eric Kujawski, in the middle ofa2 for3 game,rocketedadouble that would cle.ar the bases and give the team a 3·1 lead. Those three runs would be all the offense that would be .needed for a first game victory, Soldo, who has quickly become the most reliable member ofthe pitching staff. al- lowed only one run while yield- ing a meager five hits over seven innings of work to earn the 3-1 vic- tary and move his record to 2-2. By the middle of the second game, Hamilton had used 4 Union errors and 9 hits, to get out to a 7 run lead. Most of the damage came in the fourth inning as When hitting a backhand, keep your elbows · close to your body: Don't point your elbows out as you: hit. With your :....~...,...... elbows In, you get better . . leverage. which allows you to hit with more power. Hamilton would score 6 runs, four ofwhichcameduetoagrandslam offtelief pitcher Richard Nespola. Union staged alate·comeback Jed. by Ryan Smith, who went 4-4 with 4 RBrsand:ahomerun,and Adam Meyers who would deliver a 3-3 perfonnance. Union would cut the lead down to 2 going into the seventh but could not come up with enough and would lose the game 9-7 as starting pitcher Michael Riveles ( l-1) took the loss. Rochester 8 , 1 Union S , 2 On·.saturdayApril20th,Union played ho~t to two games vs. Rochester atCentral Park. Union, bolstered by a three RBI :perfor- mance by co-captain Knight and strong relief pitching by David Robbins, Was able to hold a nar- row 5-4 l.ead going into the sev- en.th inning of the first game. However, Roches'terwould pick up a run with two outs and the bases loaded in tlte top of the sev- enth and hold then hold the Dutchmen to force. extra innings. Union would have a scoring op- pOrtunity with runners at first and second with two outs during the bottom of the eighth inning, but they could not pick up a run and • t < • - the game remained tied until the ninth. In the top ofthe 9th, Roch- ester took advantage of some bad calls by the umpires and a few Union mistakes. They would push across three runs against Riveles(l·-2)and takean8-5lead. Union was h~ld scoreless in the bottom of the inning and would have to wait until the second game to get even as the first one slipped through their grasp. Junior pitcher Dennis Stapf made sure that Union would not lose both games against Roches- ter. In his first appearance in two weeks, Stapf (2-1) pitched ex- tremely well by only surrendering one run and six hits to earn a com- pletegame2-l victory. Stapfwho gave up a first inning home run, would not see a runner·reach third for the rest ofthe game. The two Union runswouJd be delivered by sophomore Jeremy Lamb. Lamb drove in David Bernstein and Jer- emy Pflaum with a second inning single. R.LT. 2 , 17 Union 7 , 16 In the first game of a home doubleheader on Sunday, Union continued to receive good pitch- ing from experienced varsity play- ers. David Kline ( 1-3) picked up his first victory of the season by pitching seven solid innings and holding R.I.T. to two second in- ning runs. Union picked up all of their seven runs as they batted around during the fourth. Ryan smith collected two hits, includ- ing a solo home run, and three RBI's during the inning. Co-cap- tain Jamie Haver and Toby Guzowski each had two hits in the winning cause. The second game was a wild affair that saw a total of 33 runs scored. With the benefit of a five run first inning, Unionjumped out to an 11-5 lead by the fourth .. Haver. Smith, and Lamb combined to score nine runs in their first three at bats, with Lamb driving in 5 runs with a home run and a single. David Bernstein also helped the cause by going 3~5 with an RBI. However the whole complex of the game would change as R.I. T., with the help of three Union errors, would rough up starting pitcher Ryan Almstead and losing pitcher Adam Levithan (0~ I) for nine runs during the fifth inning. Both teams would scrap together a few more runs, but Union couldnotgetenough back, and the team lost what a seemed to bea win to a 17-15 score. P_etitions~~ run fo'! th,e following positions . , ~ill be available starting Friday, April 26th: Preside,nt of the Student Forum Vice-President of Administration Vice-President ofFinan,ce Vice-President O·f Campus Life Vice-President of Multicultural Affairs Vice-President of Academics Junior Trustee, only sophomores eligible Petitions· will be. due Friday, May 3rd and the '. , -· ' , . -· . .,., Baseball 4126-@ Clarkson 2:00 , 4121 -@St. Larry 12:00 · 4/30- WILLIAMS 3:00 Soft:baU 4fl5- @Albany '3:Q9 . • 4121- ($-HatniltOn I :00 ·Tennis 4/30- WILLIAMS3:30 Men's Lacrosse 4126 ... @Hamilton 3 :<~l · · 4!27- TR JNITY 1:00 , ! Women's Lacrosse 4126- VASSAR 4:00 4127- ROCHESTER4:00 Track 4127-@ RPI 4:00 .elections w~ll be heltf_Jfednespay, May 15th. Any student is eligit,le to run. -, 20% Off .. ·· Any,one Gift· or 609l~ sorry~ ... . Sl>ecial Orders Excluded . ' The OP._ett; Dopr . ·. Boolistpre· ~·Gift qa«ery_. A Locally Owned Independent Bookstol'e Sittce.J971 128 Jay Street • bowntow11 Schenectady • (518) 346-27.19

. . ,.. April 25, :1996 Woman's Softball Showing lntprovement by Quinlan Murphy and Philip Herman Contributing Writen Tile woman's softball team began this .past weekend with a doubleheader on Saturday under clear blue skies and comfortable termperatures on campus. In the first of the two games against Skidmore. Danielle Lacrosse allowed only two runs byt the Dutchwomen could not manage to give her any offensive support, and they lost the hardfought battle, 2-0. In the second half of the doubleheader, Lacrosse pitched another great game again giving up only two runs. This time the team combined to score three runs which re- sulted in a 3-2 victory for Union. On Sunday, the weather was even nicer, but Oneonta hung a cloud over the Dutchwomen by shutting them out 4-0 in game one, and winning 9-1 in the fi- nale, dropping Union's overall record to 7-17. Despite winning only one of four games this weekend, the team played well as it continues to steadily im• prove. This season has been a rebuild;. ing year for Coach Brian Speck's team, which is led by Lacrosse, Senior Co-Captain Jen Ricci, Jun- ior Amy Nyran, and Senior co- Captain Kim Fanning. Nyran has been amazing at the plate and ex- ceptional in the .field where .she has shown her versatility by play- ing flrstbase, thitdbase, and shortstop. Fanning's play in centerfield has been truly perfect as her fielding percentage of 1000 can attest. \Whenever the ball gets hit we hope it goes to Kim because we know that she will catch it.\ said Ricci . PAGE20 Senior Captain Lauren Papa sliding into home last Saturday against Slcidmore. (photo by Rick. LedererHC) This is a very young team, Florida Since then theteamhas the plate. Ricci feels that, \The with an entirely new infield, pulled together into one cohe- team is only going to get better, other than pitcher and catcher, sive unit. They have gone back they are definitely going to be that has improved a great deal to fundamentals and .as a result b.etter the next few years. They s·ince returning from Spr~ng they have improved tremen- have a lot to look forward to.\ Break which the team spent in dously., both on the field and at Union·;· Travels to the Albany Invitati'lnal Lacrosse Update .. •-' ~ . by Stacey Kirinntl Staff Writer - ··· by Mike Leding Sports Staff The Albany Invitational is the biggest meet the team will par- ticipate all year in up until states. The·field comprised oflS teams from Division II and III. The women finished 12 out of 15, and themenfinished7outofl5. ltwas a rather windy day slowing down the times but helping !he jumpers. The top 8 placed .in every event. On Friday Autumn Renn placed .fifth in the.longjump with a leap of 4.78 meters. Michelle Woodward .• .'.-! . was· the only other lady scorer placing seventh in the hammer throw with a distance of 30.22 meters. Most ofthe·Other women competed in the 3000 meters on Friday night. A good amount of the women were not present due to NCUR, missing the bus, and other prior commitments. 'ForthemenMattJohnsonJav- elin extraordinaire placed second on Friday night with a distance of 55.08 meters. Matt was not at all happy with the throw, but we'll take the 8 points. On the same night Jon Gainor pla~ed sixth in the hammer with a Throw of 44.60 meters. The jumpers had tbeir strongest performances of the year againsfsome staunch com- petition. Richard Ling placed eighth in the iongjump w:ithca dis- tahceof6.29meters. MikeMar- tin placed sixth in·thetrjple.jump with a distance of 12..44 meters. ln the 1500 meters Pete Flynn placed fourth in atimeof4:01.53, aild Nick Conway placed sixth in a time of 4:09.88, These two came back in the 800 meters to score again, this time Nick got fourth in a'timeofl :58.95 and Pete finished . ;. The men's lacrosse teams record now stands at 2 and 6 after this past weeks games. On TlleSd;ly the fourteenth, the . Dutchmen fought back with four minutes left in the game to beat Springfield College by a score of 16 to 14. Rich Ferro stood out with six goals for the day and goalie Grant Pollock had a total of eighteen saves. Although it was a cold and . rainy day,this game proved to be one of the most exdting of the season. The men were away both days this weekend, first traveling . to St. Lawrence on Friday and then Clarkson on Saturday. Against St. Lawrence, with only .eight minutes remaining and a score of I 1 to 8, the Dutchmen were making a comeback. · However, St. Lawrence took advantage oftwo Union penal- ties and the final score was 18 to, 10. Dave Parrot had five goals fGr the day and Grant Pollock had twenty saves. Against Clarkson on Saturday, the game was close at half- time. However, sloppy conditions and a hatd schedule took its tQU on the Dutchmen and the final score was 21 to 13. Dave Parrot scored four goals and Sunil Schneider had two for the day. Grant Polto·ck bad twenty saves. The men's lacrosse team trave.ls to Hamilton on Friday and then plays its :final home game for the season on Saturday at tpm against Trinity. Come show your .support. Men's Tennis Comes Out Even .Jon Gasthalttr Sta.Q'WI'itt!r seventh in a time of 2:00.17. In The Dutchme·n Tennis team the 400 meters Mike Leding cJo·sing. three matches against Skidmore, Hamilton, and Williams~ Chin felt that since the season is so short the main goal is to have a good time playing. \We just try to have as much fun as ·we can every meet .. \ Hamilton, who the Dutchmen meetonApril24, is one of their big·gest opponents. \They are pretty close to us and hopefully we will be able to beat them,\ said Chin. If the 2-1 Dutch- men can con tin~ to improve be- hind Beckman.and Chin, the team shouid be able to win their last matches of the season. .., placed second in a time ofS.f.83 gained a split this pastweek. beat- seconds. lnthe lOO.metersOave . ingSt .. Rose6-l~lc;»sing.aclo~ RiSgi plac¢d fourth -:10.98 sec- one.kt Viissar,S-4. Sopht)JOoreJa- ·OI'ldS. son:Beekm.an wonhlsnrstsingles match and Classmate Steven Chin This weekend the.team travels to RPI for a late afternoon meet won his second to power the Dutchmen to an easy victory against them and St. Lawrence. against St. R<}se. Beckman and States is in two weeks so good luck to everyone as the stay fo- Chin have played well as oflate cused. and the team hopes the pair will conHnue theit strong play in the

